._-· -__, II 
t:-_. 
-/-f;/ 

1842·1Q~2 
SlSQuoCENifNNIAL 


VOL. XXIV NO. 122 

ND explores Columbus' voyages 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will host a conference today through Saturday on the per­spectives on Columbus' voyages to the Americas. 
"The Old World Meets the New: 1492-1992" will include presentations from leading scholars in the field, as well as exhibits at the Snite Museum of Art and the Hesburgh Library. 
In an effort to explore the subject in a multicultural con­text, the conference will focus on more than just Columbus. Presentations in the Paul and Barbara Henkels Lecture Series will examine the French and American Indian encounter; the Italian, Spanish and French Renaissance responses to the Old World meeting the new; and the Central and South American perspectives. 
The conference will begin by focusing on the local context for the New World encounter with a presentation by Indiana University professor R. David Edmunds on "The Continuing French Connection: Catholic Priests Among the Potawatomi People of Northern Indiana." 
Gregory Dowd, assistant pro­fessor of history at ND, will of­fer remarks in response to Edmunds. 
see COLUMBUS I page 6 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Twins promote pro-life; discuss evils of abortion 
GSU presidential candidates debate in forum 
By PANCHO LOZANO 
News Writer 

Childcare, health insurance and split stipends were some of the main issues debated last night·in an election forum held by the Graduate Student Union (GSU). 
The two tickets running were current GSU president Kurt Mills and David McKinlay, and their opponents, Michael Kelly and David Carrier, both running for the offices of president and vice president, ·respectively. 
"There is no doubt that this forum was of great benefit," said Tony Hazbun, the elections commissioner for the GSU. "Both candidates gave great answers and ideas to all the questions." 
The first issue most vigorously debated was the issue of child­care. Presidential candidate Michael Kelly stated in his opening address how "the lack of children's day care has been a very sore spot for most of the young families who have chosen to pursue a graduate degree at ND." 
In Mills rebuttal, he said,"We're hoping to place a 
Students protest parietals; argue for adult respect 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 

Last night more than fifty ND students gathered on the steps of the Administration building to protest the current definition of parietals. 
"Our point is not to abolish pareitals but to have the admin­istration talk to the students and establish an alternative to pareitals," said Cavanaugh Hall freshman Kevin Biese, who was leading the crowd of students. 
"We feel that as students of Notre Dame, we have the right to have du Lac reflect the views of the student body, and that currently, du Lac does not re­flect the majority of the stu­dents' interests," said Biese, adding that "a lot of us feel that pareitals interfere with us as adults." 
Biese said that the demon­stration was in response to Jeanne Blasi's inside column ti­tled, "From the Playpen," which appeared in The Observer's March 4 edition. The column was a make believe news story reporting a parietals revolt in front of the Administration building. 
Surprised by the response, Blasi said, "I wish I had known about it. I felt an obligation to be there." 
Flyers had been passed out to every dorm on campus an­nouncing the protest, Biese said. Flyers and petitions to be 
see PARIETALS I page 6 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 

The beauty of womanhood is not killing our babies, but pro­ducing life from within our­selves, according to Janice and Joyce Keen, renowned pro-life activist/feminist twins. 
The twins opened their lec­ture yesterday titled, "Abortion and Truth: A Catholic Woman's Perspective," with a "Hail Mary" in memory of all the ba­bies aborted that day and for the mothers who will need spiritual healing. 
"It is legal for any woman to have an abortion for any reason during any time ·or her pregnancy," said Joyce Keen. "We're not just talking about abortion, but infanticide, too." 
During their lecture, the Keens showed two films depict­ing the horror of abortion. 
According to the Keens, the evils of abortion cannot be con­veyed through lectures alone, but must be shown to people in films so they can have a vivid picture of what really happens. "If it is so unpleasant to look at, then why do we tolerate abortion?" Joyce asked. 
The two films shown at the lecture displayed an actual abortion and the remains of the aborted fetus. "It's difficult for me to watch the film even after I've seen it over a 100 times," Janice said. 
Janice added that abortion 
clinics don't help a pregnant 
woman make a decision, they 
simply sell abortions in order to 
make money. "Abortion clinics 
generate $500 million mainly in 
cash per year." she said. 
These doctors only care about making money, Joyce said. For example, she said, if our mother had walked into a Planned Parenthood clinic when she was pregnant with us, they would probably have counseled her to have an abortion even though she already had eight kids. 
In an effort to promote pro­life as undergraduates at Stanford University, the twins were arrested for trying to physically block the entrance to an abortion clinic. "The pur­pose is not to get arrested," Joyce said, "but to save a life." 
At abortion clinics in Chicago, the twins perform sidewalk counseling where they attempt to talk girls out of having an abortion. "Once the girls have aborted their baby and are out the door, the clinic doesn't care what happens because they have their money," said Joyce. 
It's sad that teens can get an abortion without parental con­sent, Joyce continued, but if something bad happens during the procedure and she goes to the hospital, the doctors cannot 
see Abortion I page 4 
childcare facility on Notre Dame's campus such as the Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and we currently have a tentative office space." 
Kelly said how he is "willing to give up" his entire salary "for funding" as well as other needs. "We need problem solvers as well as problem find­ers," Kelly said. 
During the forum, many peo­ple in the audience raised ques­tions regarding the issue of heath insurance. 
"The university's attitude toward grad students is that 
we're not treated as employ­ees," Kelly said. "If we were, the university could cover a good portion of the premium, thus resulting in better cover­age." 
David Carrier added how there is a need for graduate students to "re-educate the Administration" in order to be covered as employees. 
Responding to one of the questions, Mills said that the insurance offered by the University is"the cheapest in­surance anywhere, but we've 
see GSU I page 4 
I 


SMC student raped 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 

An 18 year-old Saint Mary's student was raped sometime Friday according to South Bend Police, but the victim refused to give any information about the time or location of the attack. 
The victim was treated Saturday at St. Joseph's Medical Center. Investigators have no additional information. 
Saint Marv's officials said they did not iearn of the inci­dent until Tuesday evening. "I know nothing of it," said Richard Chlebek. director of Security. ..We in Security were not informed [of the rape}... 
"This is my first knowledge of it," said Brett McLaughlin~ public information officer. 
Rape or other incidents that occur outside the Saint Mary's campus are not always re­ported to Saint Mary's Security. The choice to report the inci­dent is the victim's, according to Chlebek, and police may or may not forward the informa­tionto the college. 
But Chlebek said that when a rape victim seeks medical treatment, the hospital auto­matically contacts the Saint Mary's office of Residence Life. 
The office of Residence Ufe does not release information involving students to Public Info-rmation unless the report is filtered through Security or an 
investigation is being con­ 
ducted.  according  to  
McLaughlin.  

Mary Kelleher, director of Residence Life, was unavailable for comment. 
Chlebek said he will investi~ gate the report and determine if it merits issuing a "Crime Alert" bulletin to the campus. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Questions for April fools to ponder 
On this most glorious------­
day of all days, April Fool's Day, let me pose a plethora of questions to challenge the minds of the eager, bright and intelligent Notre Dame community. 
•If a tree falls in the middle of the forest and 
there is no one there to 
hear it, does it make a sound? 
SEAN FARNAN Accent Photo 
___E..;;.d_it_o_r__ 
The Observer 

PrBSSure 
H L 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Washington, D.C. 60 45 
April 1, 1992 
I 

Cloudy.~reezy and unseaS<)nably ·cold with a 40 percent chance of snow . 
.. 

Temperatures falling into the upper 20's. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L 
Anchorage 35 24 Athens 70 50 Bogota 68 50 Boston 43 40 Cairo 68 52 Chicago 51 31 Cleveland 55 29 Dallas 67 43 Denver 50 34 Havana 86 69 Indianapolis 56 28 Jerusalem 61 50 London 48 53 Madrid 54 36 Minneapolis 40 30 Moscow 46 36 Nashville 60 52 New York 59 40 Paris 50 43 Philadelphia 59 42 Rome 59 48 San Francisco 69 51 South Bend 5 5 211 Tokyo 66 52 
•How 
do the big M's ever get painted on the middle of a M&M? 

•How 
can the University continue to ra­tionalize that Notre Dame should be a National Catholic Research University? It seems to me that Notre Dame brought itself to where it is with a quality undergraduate program. In the immortal words of some engineer, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." 

•If 
66 percent of those surveyed said that they would go to a Barry Manilow concert on campus, would SUB bring him in? 

•Why 
is shepherd's pie called shepherd's pie? And, on that note, what ingredients are really in that culinary masterpiece of the Notre Dame Dining Halls? 

•Why 
is it that for all intents and purposes the members of the opposite sex cease to exist on campus after midnight? Is this real life? From my post-midnight jaunts off-campus to the Azar's and Denny's of this world, I am led to believe that contrary to my on-campus experiences, the opposite sex does exist after the toll of midnight. 

•When 
I get my poetic license, will I be able to use it as ID to get into Coach's and The Common's? 

•When 
HPC decides to use our money for dinner, do they prefer Olive Garden cuisine or Macri's? 

•In 
an effort to continue the administra­tion's cultural diversity, will campus squirrels soon be admitted to the University to even up the ratio of males-to-females-to-squirrels? 

•How 
is the tuition increase being spent? It is certainly not being used to make class size smaller. The student services that we receive here do not come even remotely close to those of other Indiana universities and colleges. Is it possible that our tuition money is being used to ensur.e that our chil­dren's children can have an 'affordable' Notre Dame education? If you believe that, I have a bridge for you in Brooklyn. 

•Is 
there some South Bend environmental law that everyone must wake up to the aroma of ethanol? 

•If 
there is a hole on the God Quad that measures 12 feet by 12 feet by 10 feet, what is the dirt's volume in the hole. (Answer: none, holes don't have dirt.) 

•Why 
is that when things go up, they have to fall down? For example, stones, grades and checking account balances. 

•Who 
is the DART voice? And, what role does he/she/it have in closing us, the tuition paying students, out of the classes we want/need? 

•Stupid 
questions? Well, in the infinitely wise words of my high school chemistry teacher, "The only silly questions are those unasked." 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofauthor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Julie Barrett Sarah Doran Sports 
George Dohrmann Harry Zembillas Accent Viewpoint Mara Divis Rich Riley Amy Hardgrove Joe Moody Patrick Moran 
Graphics Beth Duane 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's Staff 
Production Stephanie Goldman Lisa Bourdon Systems 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
lra~i Kurds Fear Baghdad Plot 
•AKARA, Turkey-Iraq is shelling Kurdish villages, cutting the roads and wheeling tanks into place for a possible new offensive in defiance of Gulf War cease-fire terms, U.N. officials and Kurdish leaders said Tuesday. They said Saddam Hussein is tightening the economic blockade on Kurdish civilians and trying to disrupt April 30 elections for an assembly controlled by the 3.5 million Kurds in northern Iraq. Some Kurds fear the Baghdad government is preparing a full-scale offensive to recapture territories it lost during the Kurdish uprising that followed the end of the Gulf War 13 months ago. 
Officer Convicted of Massacre 
•LIMA, Peru -An army lieutenant cgnvicted of killing at least 30 peasants in 1985 drew a six-year prison term, in what officials said Tuesday was the first conviction of a Peruvian officer for human rights violations.A military spokesman said Lt. Telmo Hurtado was convicted and sentenced by a military tribunal in February, but he re­mains" free until a higher military court approves his sen­tence.An army anti-subversive patrol under Hurtado's command attacked the peasant community of Accomarca, in Ayacucho department 240 miles southeast of Lima, on Aug. 14, 1985. Reports at the time said 69 peasants died. Hurtado was convicted of killing 30 people. including six children The rights activists describe Peru's security forces as among the worst rights abusers in the world 
OF INTEREST 
Eign-ups for BP's Euchre Tournament, benefitting the Catholic Worker House, will continue today and tomorrow in both dining halls. 
~Graduate students have the opportunity to attend an informational meeting about strategies for getting Fulbright Graduate Fellowships. which provide funding for up to a year abroad. at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. 
•All transfer students interested in holding a commissioner position on the Transfer Orientation Committee must attend a mandatory meeting at 7:30p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NATIONAL 
Peo~le Protesting Pig Plan 
•KE WEST, Fla.-A plan to burn 7 4 pigs this week to test a federal animal quarantine center has been postponed after protests by animal welfare groups.The 
U.S. Agriculture Department wanted to test its incinerator to make sure it met new state emissions standards. The hogs were to have been killed, then fed to the flames. The 300-pound pigs were purchased this month at the Ocala Livestock Market for $7.740. They've been kept at the Harry S. Truman Animal Import Center, just off Key West on Navy-owned Fleming Key, which is connected to Key West by a bridge. 
CAMPUS 
Bi~l~'s court date postponed
•N T E DAME, ln.-ND student Troy Ridgley's appearance for a deposition trial scheduled for last Tuesday was postponed two weeks until April 7 at 8 p.m. Ridgley, a former defensive lineman for the Notre Dame football team, was to appear in court on charges of public intoxication and resisting arrest, according to St. Joseph County prosecutor's office. The charges stem from a January 22 incident at Stude's Lounge, at 2206 Mishawaka Ave. in South Bend, in which Ridgley apparently refused to leave the kitchen of the club and resisted the arrest of four police officers, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
on Wedn~sday in the basement of Farley Hall. 
.,re-MCAT breakfast at North Dining Hall will be open from 7 to 7:45a.m. this Saturday for student test-takers. 
.=un N' Learn Volunteers will be on a regular schedule this week. Van will pick up at 8:45 a.m. at the library circle and 8:50 a.m. at the main circle this Saturday. 
•11 Clubs, organizations, and dorms are invited to enter boats in the 6th Annual Fisher Hall Regatta. See your club or hall president for information or call 283­1902. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1789: The U.S. House of Representatives held its first full meeting, in New York City. 

• 
In 1933: Nazi Germany began its persecution of Jews with a boycott of Jewish-owned businesses. 

• 
In 1939: The United States recognized the Franco government in Spain following the end of the Spanish civil war. 

• 
In 1977: The U.S. Senate followed the example of the House by adopting a stringent code of ethics requiring full financial disclosure and limits on outside income. 

• 
In 1984: Recording star Marvin Gaye was shot to death by his father, Marvin Gay Sr., in Los Angeles. 


Wednesday, April1, 1992 The Observer page3 
Grazin says Yeltsin faces much opposition, 
M.~scow. reports shortages 
MOSCOW (APl -Milk and sugar were unavailable Tuesday in a survey ofthe capi­tal's stores, and shops also were out or eggs, perhaps in anticipation or Easter later this month. 
Rumors swept the Moscow region. meanwhile, that the price of gasoline was about to rise, causing long lines at filling stations, the ITAR·-Tass news agency reported. Regional offi­cials denied the price would rise shortly, although Russian President Boris Yeltsin has said it will be decontrolled in late May or earlyJune. . . 
The AP's nMoscow Marketbasket~' survey of 15 consumer items in seven se­lected stores found little change in prices. As in previous weeks, availability of goods was the biggest facto~; 
The supply of milk seems to have dried .up from the paltry amounts on sale recently. Sugar, which has been scarce throughout the country for months, was again impossible to find. ~tore clerks were telling shoppers Tuesday they have not seen sugar for weeks .. · 
The Observer announces the 1992 -93 St. Mary's Staff Office Hours 
The Office is open Mondays and Wednesdays 10 -11 and 2:30 -3:30, and Tuesday and Thursday 12 -3 in 309 Haggar College Center 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
, 

Not much has changed in the former Soviet Union in the past few months, and things could be getting worse, according to Igor Grazin of the Kellogg Institute and Law School. 
Grazin pointed out the signif­icant difference between right wing and left wing parties in the Soviet Union in part of his lecture yesterday, titled "The Right Wing Opposition in Russian Politics." He said that unlike in America and many other western countries, the left wing parties in the Soviet Union are composed of conservatives. 
President Yeltsin represents the extreme of the right-winged parties, according to Grazin. This position is a challenge for Yeltsin at this particular time, he added. 
..It is unusual to be an ex­tremist and at the same time be elected into office," Grazin said. "(Yeltsin's) going to have to make some compromises or have more moderate ideas to make it without a revolution." 
MEET YOUR CONCENTRATION 
MEETINGS FOR UNDERGRADUATES INTERESTED IN: 

especially from poor common workers 
HESBURGH PROGRAM IN PUBLIC SERVICE PPE (PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS & ECONOMICS) PEACE STUDIES FILM & CULTURAL STUDIES GENDER STUDIES 
RM 204 O'SHAG THURS. APRIL 2, 4:30 P.M. 
RM 217 O'SHAG THURS. APRIL 2, 6:30 P.M. 
103C HESBURGH CENTER MON. APRIL 6, 4:30 P.M. 
O'SHAG LOFT MON. APRIL 6, 5:15 P.M. 
RM 119 O'SHAG MON. APRIL 6, 7:30 P.M. 



Pre-Law Society News 
3/31 
3/31 4/1 
4/10 
'What's Law School Like?" 7pm, Law School Basement An informal discussion and reception 
Officer Candidate Sheets due in 104 O'Shag 
e 

Interviews of Candidates. Candidates will be contacted by phone about interview times. 
Trip to University of Michigan Law School (with the Preprofessional Society). For information, contact Michael Loftis (x3454), Beth Tluchowski (Preprofessional Society, x4877), or Ms. Frances Shavers in the Alumni Association Office ..If interested, please respond to one of the three by April2. 
/ 

4/11,12 Moot Court Cases. If interested in being a juror for & 25,26 a case, call Brian Aleaxander at 277-9497. 
4/25 Mock LSAT. 8 am, Cushing Auditorium. Please sign up in 104 O'Shag by April17 
The .. Liberal Communist" party lead by Gorbachev is the second most right-winged party in Russia, according to Grazin. ..They are ready to restore Russia to how it was two years ago," he said. 

Grazin explained that the "Liberal Communists" have in­dependence in mind, but know that a complete turn around of Russian politics is not possible and will most likely hurt, rather than benefit the country. 
The "Pro-Soviet Communist" party, consisting of former KGB and Soviet Union Army members possesses power and resources "stronger than many are assuming," Grazin said. This party would like to see Russia start over and "reform back to the Russia that was ten years ago, the pre-Gorbachev days," Grazin added. 
The most conservative fac­tion in the current political spectrum is the Russian National Conservatives, who want to restore Russia to its constitutional monarchy years, according to Grazin. 
"In essence (they are in favor oO reforming back to a Russian Empire," he said. 
With all these left-wing par­ties, Yeltsin faces much opposi­tion, Grazin said. However, Grazin predicts that Yeltsin will face stronger opposition from the common workers. 
"The people in Russia are finding themselves in a state of poverty," he said. "The indus­trial output in Russia decreases approximately ten percent per month and statistics show that it (industrial output) is sixty . percent of what it was two-and­one-half years ago," Grazin 
explained. 
"The people's monthly salary is not adequate enough," Grazin said. ..All of their money is being spent. on food. Things like refrigerators, televisions and even clothes are considered luxuries. The only person they have to blame is Yeltsin." 
Grazin believes that either Yeltsin should strengthen his own independent power bases or make compromises to the left-wing demands. 
So far Yeltsin has taken steps to achieve the first suggestion, but .. he needs to understand that the struggling minds and souls of the ordinary people are the real power base of Russia," Grazin said. 

TAKE DRUGS AND LOSE ALL 
YOUR FRIENDS. 
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 




page 4 The Observer Wednesday, April 1 , 1992 
Abortion 
continued from page 1 
perform surgery without the parents approval. 
The twins are from a catholic family of 12 and they became involved in the pro-life move­ment during their junior year at Stanford University. The catalyst for our involvement was reading about how abortion exploits women, the twins said. 
"Denying our maternity will not advance womanhood in any way," said Janice. "'We, as women, are given the responsi­bility to bear children from God, and it's a gift and a bless­ing." 
Janice spent the summer of her junior year in college in a California jail for the cause of pro-life, and she is presently a member of the Professional Women's Network, a group ad­vocating women and human life. 
Joyce serves on the board of directors of the Illinois Right to Life Committee, and is also on the Americans United for Life, a legal branch of the pro-life moyement. 
A forest fire couldhityou right where you live. 
Livmg near a k>rest me.1ns 1\lU ha"'! to he extra c.1uttou...; ahout forest firl.!s. Ftre~ute )Qllr arl..'.l by dc.lnng brush around )QUr home and planting fire rctardam vegetation. Use spark arrester screens on dumneys and "'nts. Install lire retardant matenal on ruol .md exposed understructure. And don't burn trash or le<1vcs. These Simple prec.1ul!ons could save l<"•ur home and m<>re importantly. your life. Remember. only )UJ can prevent lorest fires. 

A Puhhc ServKe uf rhe .\d Coun.. ti. Ill!." t · '1 '-'" h1rest Scrvk.l! .md \UUI )\.lie h.m..·-.·~·• ~!':.'!! 
Pre-Law Society/Preprofessional Society Members 
Want to see the University of Michigan's Law School and Medical School? If so, sign up for the upcoming trip to Ann Arbor. A bus will leave early Friday, April tO, and return that night. For infonnation, contact Michael Loftis (Pre-Law Society, x 3454), Beth Tluchowski (Preprofessional Society, x4877), or Ms. Frances Shavers in the Alumni Association Office. If interested, please respond by April 2 to one of the three 


The Official Class of 1992 
c:~ 
"Once in a Lifetime" Stein (r-1·=1
\1, ~ 
~ . 
Wh1te Ceramic with Blue and Gold Trim & Letters or Blue Ceramic with ornate Gold Trim & Lettering 

Order in North & South Dining Halls & in the Huddle 
Personalize Your Stein: 
With your name, School or a Message. On Sale: March 26th thru April 3rd From 11 :OOam to 1:OOpm Personalizations Add $ 3 00 

$ 15.00 Per Stein 
4 Week Delivery 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
been working for a while to get our insurance subsidized by the University." 
From this point in the forum a heated debate ensued over the issue of stipends for GSU offi­cers. Kelly was continually questioned by members of the audience on his motives for running. Kelly was accused by one member of the audience for running for office only after he had found out that there was a $4,000 stipend offered. 
Kelly denied the accusation, saying that he ran because "'grad students are unhappy" and that "'the problems are just symptoms of the current coun-





FOR RENT 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
Amenities Include: 2 Full Baths Washer/Dryer Security System New Appliances 1 Mile From N.D. 
Newly Remodeled. Features Include: All New Bathrooms New Appliances New Carpet Completely Repainted New Siding 

232-8256 
cil's weaknesses." 

Kelly was also questioned about how he feels about the students who don't receive grants and what should they do for additional funding. Kelly answered, "It's not the GSU's responsibility to find students stipends for additional funding." 
Mills supported Kelly's posi­tion on this issue. 
According to Kelly's platform, they believe one of the most pertinent problems is that the Graduate Student Council offers too high of an administrative overhead, 51 cents per dollar. "'If we pay less and cut back on salaries, such as the GSU office assistant, surely we'll be able to get the 51 cents down to a reasonable number." 
"The 51 percent is just an 
outright manipulation of statis­tics. All they are doing is taking the largest line and going from there," said Mills. "It's totally dishonest." 
A number of questions were also directed to the candidates over issues such as allocation of funds, faster graduation time, women's issues and students' social environment. 
Both candidates agreed that there is a greater need for more student unity and involvement on pertinent issues. 
The key issue that both can­didates agreed upon was a greater need for communication between the graduate de­partments' representatives and the GSU council. "The council is too top heavy. We shouldn't 
IS THERE UFE AFTER ND??? A RETREAT FOR GRADUATING SENIORS APRIL 25-25 
This may be your last chance to make a Notre Dame Retreat! Umited Space Available._ 
Sign up by Aprill5 Applications are in the Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
for further infonnation contact Judy Hutchinson: 239-6515 
have to wait for the council members to let us know what's going on," Carrier said. "There needs to be more activeness and involvement by the stu­dents." 
The Mills ticket supports the development of forums and or­ganizations within departments, believing them to be beneficial in increasing communication between the GSU council and the executive committee. "If departments were more organized, it would be more beneficial in all directions. The more structure, the more organization," said Mills. 
Kelly agreed, "Perhaps with a fresh outlook, we graduate students can rebuild the pride that we should feel as special members of this community." 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. no one has helped students score hig~r! 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 
. 

VVednesda~Apnl1, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Panel will focus on affirmative action 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Program in Public Service is hosting its third annual public policy col­loquium today and Thursday at the Galvin Life Sciences audito­rium. 
The student-directed confer­ence will carry the general theme of "Recovering the Dream" and will focus on af­firmative action programs. 
Today's session will begin at 
7:30 p.m. and will focus on af­firmative action programs in education. The panelists for to­day's discussion will include: 
• Howard Adams, executive Engineering and Science, Inc., 
director  of  the  National  
Consortium  for  Graduate  
Degrees  for  Minorities  in  

• 
Gary Hunter, director of the affirmative action and human resource department at Miami University of Ohio, and 

• 
Betty Vetter, executive di­rector of the Commission on Professionals in Science and Technology. 


· Thursday's session will also begin at 7:30 p.m. and will fo­cus on affirmative action pro­grams in employment. The pan­elists for this discussion will in­clude: 
• Annie Blackwell, division di­rector of Policy, Planning and Program Development of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), 
U.S. Department of Labor, 
• 
David Dow, manager of human resources for the Real Estate and General Services di­vision of Xerox, and 

• 
Garrett Reilly, manager of compliance programs for General Electric's Corporate Human Resources department. 


Both sessions are free and open to the public. For more information, contact David Leege, director of the Hesburgh Program, at 239-5016. 
Forest dwellers arrested for hindering logging efforts 
NEW YORK (AP) -More than 400 forest dwellers have been arrested for blockading logging trucks in a Malaysian tropical rain forest which has the world's highest rate of de­forestation, conservationists said Tuesday. 
Members of the Penan tribe and related tribes, they haven't been charged, but they have been threatened with up to two years in prison as the govern­ment has strengthened its ef­forts to end the blockades, said Bruno Manser, a Swiss ethnog­rapher and activist who lived with the Penan from 1984 to 1990. 
On Thursday, Sen. AI Gore in­tends to introduce a resolution calling for an end to exploita­tion of the rain forests of the Malaysian state of Sarawak on the island of Borneo. 
"The Penan Indians of Sarawak are waging a battle for their survival," the Tennessee Democrat said in a letter to his Senate colleagues. "Their homes and their culture are in grave jeopardy as logging companies rapaciously tear down the forest on which they depend." 
Wade Davis, a writer and ethnobotanist who has spent time with the Penan, said the Penan have a unique knowledge of the Sarawak rain forest. 

••• ALUMNI====== 
Attention -Transfer Students! 



-SENIOR 

If Interested In a position on the 
Executive Committee '92-'93

,i!:CLUBi 
Transfer Orientation 
program, please attend a mandatory meeting In the basement
presents: 

of Farley Hall at 7:30pm Wed. April 3 TONIGHT! Appllcaltions will be distributed and Interview dates will be
the campus band: 
set. 




ACCESS DENIED 

ummer 
on Wednesday, April J.st 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION I 683-1959 J
GREAT SPECIALS! 
* APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33
GREAT BAND! 

GREAT FUN! 
l\1aster Mini Warehouses 


''The Democratic Party and the Politics ofAbortion'' 
A Lecture by 


Governor 


Democrat, Pennsylvania 

Law School Court Room Thursday, April 2, 4 pm 
Center for Civil and Human Rights • White Center on Law and Government • Student Government • Student Union Board 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 1, 1992 
Columbus 
continued from page 1 

Other lectures, which will in­clude responses from ND fac­ulty members, include: 
• "How New is the New World: The Discoveries and the Issue of Innovation in the 16th Century," by Yale University's David Quint. Respondent: Theodore Cachey Jr., ND assis­tant professor of romance lan­
l guages and literatures.
I \. • "Writing and Creating the New World: The Dilemma of the Historian," by Enrique Pupa­Walker of Vanderbilt University. Respondent: Angel Delgado­Gomez, ND associate professor of romance languages and literatures. 
• "Dialogue and the Discovery: Montaigne and the Historiographers," by Timothy Hampton of the University of California, Berkeley. Respondent: Julia Douthwaite,
i 
NO assistant professor of ro­
l The days until graduation are approaching quickly as seniors are 
mance languages and litera­
measured for graduation caps and gowns in the bookstore. 
ture.

l 


Parietals 
continued from page 1 
signed in support of it were passed around during the demonstration. 
The students were forbidden by ND security to display their banners. 
As the demonstration grew, the group marched from the Administration Building steps toward North Quad. As they marched, the group loudly chanted "We are adults!" and attempted to enter Farley Hall, but were turned away by the Farley security guard. 
Responding to the loud chants, students inside of the dorms answered their cries saying that, if they were adults, "then go to bed." 
In response to the protest, ND security said that they arrived at the scene of the demonstration "to make sure 
! 
that there were no damages or
' 
American Heart &·a Association V
• 


Opening April 3rd 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIALIZE IN:
j-
Korean 

l 
j Japanese Chinese 
I i 
Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 23 &Ironwood 
Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 
{219) 273-9545 
•
A Public Service of the Ad Council, the U.S.DA.. ~ 
J.,•

Forest Service and your State Forester. 
I.DUlC 

1991-92 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
NOTRE DAN\E COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
DIRECTED BY REGif\:ALD BAIN 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8 8:10PM 
• .,. THURSDAY, APRIL 9 8:10 PM fRIDAY, APRIL10 8:10PM 
SATURDAY, APRIL 11 8:10 PM SUNDAY, APRIL 12 3:10 PM 
.., WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATS $7, 

TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT 
THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
THE LAfORTUNE ~TUDE NT CENHR 
TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 STIJDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZEN 
DISCOUNTS ARE AVAIG\BLE FOR WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND 
SUNDAY PERFORMANCES. 
JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WASNrr SAFE TO COME OUT ..... 

NOTH 
TUE: ALTERNATIVE MUSIC NIGHT 
Bring your own discs, $2.00 60 oz. deals 
WED: PENNY NIGHT 
Everyone $3.00 
!HUBS: VELCRO JUMPING 
$3.00 60 oz. deals, prizes 
1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 
288-0285 
• "Images of America: From Eastern Fable to Amerindian History," by Rolen a Adorno of Princeton University. Respondent: Jose Anadon, ND professor of romance languages and literatures. 
In conjunction with the con­ference, the Snite Museum wiU offer two exhibits -"Maps and the Columbian Encounter," and "The Lords of Life: Power and FertiJity in Pre-Classic Meso­America." Barbara Mundy of Yale University and Douglas Bradley, curator of ethno­graphic arts at the Snite, wiiJ present papers at Annenberg Auditorium addressing topics related to the exhibits. 
In addition, the Hesburgh Library's special collections de­partment will display books that document the earliest images and writings about America. 
Two panel discussions are scheduled for the final day, fea­turing distinguished Latin­Americanists from Mexico, Peru, Venezuela and the United States. The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies at Notre Dame will sponsor "Polemical Views About the Conquest" and "Literary Criticism and Colonial Letters." 
The conference will close with a panel reflecting on the SOOth anniversary of Columbus' voy­ages. 
All lectures and panel discus­sions are free and open to the public, and all except the Snite presentation will be held at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The conference, part of Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial cele­bration, is sponsored by the department of romance lan­guages and literatures in col­laboration with the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, the Kellogg Institute, the department of history, the Snite Museum and the Northern Indiana Historical Society. 
For more information on the conference, contact Ted Cachey at 239-5651. 
Tl)DENT ACTIVITIES OFF!(C PR~ENT~ 
~ r· ·····------~ 
I ! 
E 
NOTRE DAME 
DO:YT MISS 

THE ACOUSTIC CAFE 
This Thursday, April 2 
basement lounge LaFortune Student Center 9:00 P.M. -midnight 
OPEN l\HCROPHONE STLl)E~I PARTICIPATION ENCOli'R-\GED 
Attention-Student Summer Storage 
What NEW Mini Warehouse and Storage Faculty REFUSED to charge Deposits, Administrative Fees, and UNFAIR Higher Student Rental Fees Last Season. 
•
Security System • Resident Manager 

•Spadous 
and Conveniently Located 


(219) 271-1105 
We are expanding just for you! CALL NOW for your Reservation!! 
5 X tO's-$30 19'X) Prices Special Student Rate 10 X 10 
lOX 20 

$45 Your Choice! 
ST ~ 23
• II II 

page 7 
Wednesday, April 1, 1992 The Observer 
Malloy formally inaugurates five NO professors to endowed chairs 

By BECKY BARNES Prein chair of the Department encouraging that," he added. members of the department of 
of Computer Science and Although these professors 
the position and outside de­
News Writer Engineering in the University's have held their positions since partments, including at least College of Engineering, the beginning of this academic one member who holds an en­
Five University of Notre Dame •John Borkowski, the Andrew year, University President dowed position. professors were formally J. McKenna Family professor of Father Edward Malloy formally installed in endowed academic psychology, and inaugurated them to these en­Attanasio has been a member 
chairs during a mass on •Walter Johnson, the Frank dowed chairs as celebrant of of the Notre Dame faculty since Wednesday, March 25. M. Freimann professor of the ceremonial mass. A recep­1985. He serves as chair of the The professors were: physics. tion held on the 14th floor of advisory board of Notre Dame's 
•John Attanasio, the Regan Appointment to these posi­the library followed in which Center for Civil and Human director of the Joan B. Kroc tions is a ..mark of distinction, each of the recognized profes­Rights and as faculty advisor of Institute for International Peace of recognition," said University sors spoke. the Notre Dame Law Review Studies, Provost Timothy O'Meara. ..It is "I have found (the cere­and the International Law 
•Harold Attridge, the George an opportunity for them to monies) to be a very impressive Society. However, he is leaving
John Attanasio 
N. Shuster dean of the College achieve greater goals, and I occasion where I'm reminded Notre Dame next year to become dean of the University
of Arts and Letters, think recognition is one way of one more time of the intellec­helping me to do a lot the work 
•Steven Bass, the Schubmehl-tual quality of our faculty," I've done with legislative and of St. Louis Law School. O'Meara said. judicial officials in the O'Meara said the University is According to O'Meara, en-European Community and the still looking for a replacement dowed chairs are "important former Soviet Union and help­for his chair. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • things to the University." He ing to attract people to the : said they attract outstanding campus from other parts of the Attridge has been at Notre 
• faculty from other universities world." Dame since 1985 and special­
izes in Hellenic Judaism. He
MONDAY AND TUESDAY : and provide increased opportu-O'Meara said the positions of 
• nities for Notre Dame profes-endowed chairs were initiated has published seven books and
APRIL l3AND 14 • sors. 20 or 25 years ago by former serves as a member of several : Endowed chairs provide "one University President Father editorial boards. 
• way of supporting faculty at the Hesburgh. Hesburgh believed • • university," he added . these positions would improve Bass came Notre Dame only

TRENT 

• 
: Appointment to an endowed the quality of education at the this year from George Mason

• 
1~RTERBERRY University, and O'Meara com­University. He holds several


• chair includes outside resources
•
• • donated by the sponsor of the mented that it has made a dif­U.S. and international patents 
• chair. This money allows the ference in the quality of indi­and has published extensively. 
8:10p.m. • 
• professors greater opportunity viduals attracted to the univer­
: for study by providing travel sity. Borkowski has served on the Washington Hall • funds, a new piece of laboratory Johnson, who leads one of Notre Dame faculty since 1967 
• equipment, a computer or other only four groups in the world and was chair of the psychology 
Tid:ets: $8-:\otrc Dame : similar items, said O'Meara. studying weak interactions in department for six years. He is :.tnd Sainr \ Ia!\ 's Stutknrs • The endowment grows with atomic physics, agreed that the also the author of two $1 0-Gencr<d :\dmission psychology text books. 
• inflation and should continue to endowed chair "is a matter, in $5-Childrcn (12 and undcrl : support the professors over this area of physics, to attract Group rates a1·ailablc. • time, he continued. more people into the Johnson has been at Notre LaFortune Center Box Ofticc • According to Attanasio, "In University." Dame since 1958 and chaired 
: the international arena, the op-the physics department from According to O'Meara, the 1982 to 1985. He has also
~lime Trent Arterberry moves through a series of contemporarv scenes • portunities associated with an 
• endowed chair are helpful in endowed chairs are chosen by a served as a visiting professor at
\lith a umquc athletic grace and presence. His show r:.ml!,es from hilariom desnipti\'e mime to interpreti,·e dance and includes impro1·isational : making international contacts, review committee comprised of several universities in Europe. '>Ketches with audience parricip<ltion. Arterberry began swdying mime in • the '70s with such m<~sters as ~darcel ~larceau.
• •• Reduce Reuse Recycle 

Closed sections  as  of  FIN  478  01  1630  Classes that will reopen  CBANGES  
7:00 p.m.  3/31/92  GOVT  403  01  3670  at 7:00 p.m.  4/1/92  
GSC  430  01  3457  (May be only  one  space)  BIOS  2011  04  #3893  
ACCT  231  06  0826  GSC  475  01  3657  change  credit  
ACCT  231  10  0830  HIST  308A  01  3722  hours  to  1.0  
ACCT  475  02  0857  HIST  326A  01  3723  ENGL  311  01  1561  BIOS  3441  all sections  
ACCT  475  03  0858  HIST  354A  01  3731  ENGL  328A  01  0175  change  
AERO  4441  04  0875  HIST  358A  01  3733  ENGL  4·16F  0 1  3074  restriction  
AERO  4461  04  0881  HIST  444A  01  3741  ENGL  416G  01  3608  to:  BIOS  344  
ANTH  310  01  2935  HIST  453A  01  3743  ENGL  416H  01  3610  or  421 pre/  
BA  391  01  0769  HIST  458A  01  3745  ENGL  440B  01  3613  corequisite  
BA  391  02  0768  HIST  459A  01  3746  ENGL  460  01  3618  BIOS  527  01  #3994  
BA  391  03  0559  HIST  465A  01  3747  ENGL  471A  01  3623  remove  
BA  490  03  1067  HIST  472A  01  3748  ENGL  478B  01  3624  "graduate  
BA  490  04  1068  HIST  474A  01  3749  ENGL  485C  01  1581  students  
BIOS  3441  02  1085  IIPS  335  01  4138  HIST  458A  01  3745  only"  
COTH  330  01  3569  MGT  231  01  2012  MUS  226  01  2095  restriction  
COTH  435  01  3575  MGT  231  02  2013  soc  220  01  #2621  
ECON  403  01  3584  MGT  231  03  2015  add  
ECON  403T  01  3585  MGT  231  05  2018  CORRECTIONS  AND  restriction  
EDUC  324  18  8418  MUS  220  01  0330  ADDITIONS  TO  PART BOOK  "Ineligible  
ENGL  311  01  1561  MUS  221  01  2646  if  
ENGL  319A  02  1565  MUS  226  01  2095  previously  
ENGL  324  01  3592  PHIL  230  01  3785  COQRSES  ADDED  taken SOC  
ENGL  328A  01  0175  PHIL  235  01  2197  122"  
ENGL  384C  01  3164  PHIL  243  01  3786  PHIL  242  04  #4192  THEO  512  01  #0690  
ENGL  416F  01  3074  PHIL  246  01  2198  Basic  Issues  change  time  
ENGL  416G  01  3608  PHIL  247  01  3190  in Pol.Phil.;  to:  T H  
ENGL  416H  01  3610  PSY  472  01  2364  3  cr.hrs.;  08:00-09:15  
ENGL  417  01  3611  RLST  240  28  9528  M W F  08:00­ 
ENGL  440B  01  3613  RLST  240  30  9530  08:50  COQRSES  CAHCEI.I.EQ  
ENGL  460  01  3618  soc  400  01  3850  PHIL  242  OS  #4193  
ENGL  471A  01  3623  SOC  400T  01  3851  Basic  Issues  AFAM  260  01  - #3444  
ENGL  475A  01  3351  THEO  265  01  0703  in Pol.Phil.;  CAPP  253  01  -#1162  
ENGL  478B  01  3624  THEO  287  01  0254  3  cr.  hrs.;  ECON  443  01  -#1351  
ENGL  485C  01  1581  THEO  288  01  4070  M W F  09:05­ soc  260  01  - #3446  
ENGL  492C  01  3628  09:55  
ENGL  493A  01  3629  
ENGL  495A  01  3630  


,. f 
~ 
I 
f. 
(, 
pageS Wednesday, April 1 , 1992 






Viewpoint 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor ....•...•...•..... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•••..Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ...........•. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .••..••...•.Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager •.••••••...••.Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
r 
~ ( People Auction theme Hipp family says thank you to NO ( Dear Editor: this family need to know that our family to Notre Dame that 
f. was not meant to offend 
The Colleen Marie Hipp family you have demonstrated a love, weekend. We cherish the mag­Dear Editor: ment of those who happened to 
expresses our heartfelt appre­special affection and genuine nificent "quilt of memories" so ~ This is in response to Dennis be in power at that time. ciation and very special thanks support to our family that has thoughtfully assembled by the
( Barnes' letter of March 30 con­to the entire Notre Dame com­flowed freely and been received women of Lewis Hall and now
( 
cerning his offense taken to the While it is revolting and sick­munity for their sincere support gratefully. This outpouring of being shared by us with friends 
People Auction held in honor of ening it happens to be a fact of
~ as we proceed in our healing faith has occurred stimulated .. of Colleen and our family in St 
Meghan Beeler and Colleen life that the human animal has 
process. The loss of our by the special atmosphere of Louis.f Hipp. Mr. Barnes is to be com­enslaved its brothers and sis­daughter and sister is traumatic the University of Our Lady. We You all are responsible for in­{ plemented on his volume of ters since time began. Just as indeed; however with the feel it, we are uplifted by it, we stilling in us a special ability to
{ 
( knowledge about the number of the word "ghetto" does not ap­intense, fervent and genuine are healing better because of it. face the tragedy of Colleen's 
Africans taken into slavery. ply to Jews or blacks, the idea
{ sympathy and support of the We express our special thanks loss and you have made our 
However, I fear he overlooked of slavery should not be consid­
( student body, alumni and ad­to Kate Sullivan, rector of Lewis family feel we will always be a 
one very large point, that ered the personal catastrophe
( ministration of the University Hall, for representing Notre part of Notre Dame. Africans had no exclusivity on of Africans. we have been comforted greatly Dame with our family in Jerry, Ann, Tom and Doranne 
}· 
slavery. I suggest that Mr. in facing this tragedy. arranging for the beautiful Hipp 
f. Barnes spend $3.00 at a local Everyone whose heart beats Notre Dame is a special family Memorial Mass on March 20, StLouis, Missouri 
video store and rent the movie free has horrors of the idea of indeed. All of you who share in 1992 and hosting the visit of March 27, 1992 
"Spartacus." slavery, but we also abhor the ( idea of murder or rape. It's a 
f In this movie, which by the crime of mankind, but let's not Bookstore B-Ball censors are inconsistent 
~ way has been excellently re­let the mere mention of the touched and redone, one will word destroy or taint the love Dear Editor: when the "Censorship point out a few that the
~ 
note that there are thousands of and efforts that went through to As seniors at Notre Dame, we Committee" requested that we Censorship Committee obvi­
( 
slaves depicted, and it is in­do something wonderful. Other are well aware of the conserva­modify our name to something ously missed: "Four guys eatin' ~ teresting to note that there is activities such as Morrissey tive nature of this University. much more appropriate: "4 regularly and one single guy," I but one black slave pictured Hall's Polar Run and Lyons However, until recently, we un­Women Who Score With the "69 ways to score," "4 guys who 
! ( 
who is referred to as an Hall's "Cream your favorite derestimated the extent of cer­Circus Lunch Clown." For any take it to the hole and one who
{ 
Ethiopian. The heroine of the Lyonite" have been done to tain restrictive campus policies. of you who do not understand likes to go backdoor," .. 5 guys movie was a Britain enslaved raise money for the scholar­Censorship has become an issue the logic behind this modifica­who penetrate to the hole and by the Romans. Another hero, a ships. around the country, but Notre tion, don't feel too bad-neither shoot," "No snackin' at the Y," Sicilian. Spartacus himself was Dame has taken it to a new do we. We are guessing that the and last but not least, "4 musty 
! { 
from anywhere but Africa. People are doing everything level. committee felt that the sexual pelts and a Summer's Eve." In they can to raise money to keep In order to take part in the connotation would be removed our opinion, these names are My point is that slavery has the memory of two very special Bookstore Basketball if the Circus Lunch Clown was a slightly more sexual in nature 
been an ugly part of the human people alive. I attended the Tournament, we realized that member of a 5-person team than ours.
( 
~ 
existence since recorded time. People Auction, which raised we would have to come up with whose goal was to "score bas­Please don't misunderstand. As an African-American, Mr. $30,000, and have never expe­a creative name that would not kets." We feel that as adults, we are Barnes, may think he has an rienced a greater sense of love offend our 18-22 year old In talking to the new able to take these names for exclusive right to be offended and caring than I did in that classmates. Since our coach Commissioner Andy Sinn, he in­what they are: forms of humor. 
f 
by this most demeaning of all room that night. I think Mr. gained celebrity status as the formed us that the censorship Thus, our point is not that these
I 
human practices, but let me as­Barnes needs to look ··at that clown at Circus Lunch last year. rule is as follows: "No names names should be censored, but
I 
sure you long before the birth half glass of water as half full we thought to incorporate him that are explicitly OR implicitly rather, that ours should not f of Christ white men were instead of half empty and in our name. Thus, "5 Women sexually suggestive are al­have been. I putting other white men in lighten up! Who Score With the Circus lowed," and that this is the rea­Libby Walker 
shackles and chains and on Kelly Guerin Lunch Clown" was born. son why our name was cen­Sheila Dombal ! auction blocks to be sold. Breen-Philllps Hall We laughed at the thought sored. Katie Smith ( People of all races were ;::;laugh­March 30, 1992 that this would be censored, After looking at the list of Cindy Toomey 
( tered at arenas for the enjoy­
( 
( ( DO IF 7Hl5Re'5 ANYTHIN6eXPIJ)!TAIJle 
I f 
IN 7He CUN'!rJV R«<1lP, '1'He5t-aJ'ff5 
11/fUfiN[)ff, JUST 7HetfJ4Y 7J£Y 
FaJN!J 11/IU/B HOt<TrJN, 5CfltXJt, 
Pf(A'feR.IWf) 805DIHARB:JR 

r 
IN 1988...

I r \ 
l 
I 
! 
r 
{ 
r 
( 
and were therefore stunned team names. we would like to Siegfried Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
7HI5 15 e/J ZIA'Wf131<~ 
(j/RL-5,
flt/J,[)(F~IIII, 
6/RJ/3,
ANOA'W,~ ''P8?'3()NAL. 
GII?J.l3!
S/!CTlCW«JeAf?aif) 
~ 
JlJtiiT 7H/5 Yt=AR ... 
tl?! 
_u· 1 I ~+-+--+-:+-I 
~-.q 

'The best water is the kind that has no taste.' 
. Robert Earl Payne 
Become No-Mind, and unsubmit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


Viewpoint
Wednesday, April 1, 1992 page9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Loretto renovation 
Dear Editor: 
The Church of Loretto has been the subject of several let­ters to the Voice of the People recently. as well as two feature articles in the South Bend Tribune. All of the letters have expressed dismay at the planned renovation and have asked the Renovation Committee to reconsider its plans. 
The committee has not re­sponded publicly to the outcry. It quietly has proceeded with its plans. The renovation, which is scheduled for May, has already begun in that a major portion of the wooden pews have been removed and replaced with straight-back individual chairs. Ugly holes have now appeared in the marble floors where the pews were once anchored. 
Speaking of ugly holes, others have been appearing figuratively during the course of this conflict. Mary Turgi, CSC, head of the Renovation Committee has been depicted as everything from evil to a "destructive nun," a she-devil.
• 
Though I do not know her personally, several of my friends do and they have high regard for her as a loving, caring, nurturing person who would stop at nothing to help someone in need. 
She has worked ceaselessly for humanitarian causes, helping organize and lead such groups as the Hunger Coalition and Peacemakers. However, because she is heading the Renovation Committee and representing an unpopular viewpoint, she has had to deal with much character assassination which I think is unfair and un-
It is easy to lose sight of the need for unconditional accep­tance and respect for others during conflict. I believe this is one of Christ's teachings, and it is imperative to remember it now: Love thy neighbor as thyself, even if you happen to disagree with her or him. Kindness and compassion should not be limited to only those with whom you agree. 
Having said this, I want to state my reasons for being against the renovation. First of all, it will cost $1.5 million, and there are destitute. desperate people right here in Michiana who could benefit deeply from the Order's stated purpose which is to take care of the needy. 
Secondly, many of the Sisters and students are against it. At the meeting on Nov. 19, almost one hundred people attended, several giving testimonials op­posed to the renovation. One student told of how she always saved church for last when campus. 

She spoke of how her friends would gasp with delight when they saw the ornate bronze doors, and once inside, how they would stand quietly, touching the mosaic with reverence and awe. She went on, close to tears, "I can't believe the palm trees won't be here anymore." Another student stated that she had spoken to several nuns who said they would rather die than see these changes take place. 
Next is the concern ofartistic integrity. In 1956, artist­architect Paul Jacques Grillo was commissioned to renovated the church. Not only did he design the floor-to­ceiling mosaic, which was hand-crafted in Milan and Florence, but he also designed the main entrance, the narthex, the nave, and the sanctuary. 
The following is an excerpt from an article published in the South Bend Tribune on the church's importance in his life and the excitement of the challenge it presented. 'For the first time,' he said, 'all the art forms, from design to actualization, were brought together to form one total space.'" 
Many of us may not like a Picasso painting, but that gives us no right to cut it up and throw half of it away. Picasso's work is protected be­cause it is in a museum. Unfortunately and ironically, Grillo's work is not because it is in a church. 
Father Ed Foley, head of the Catholic Theological Union at the University of Chicago is for the renovation. In a recent phone conversation he told me that the church is a place of worship, not a museum, and that architecture and liturgical art must conform to the li­turgy. 
However, as far back as April 11, 1971. the Sacred Congregation for Clergy wrote a circular letter to the presi­
dents of the world's National 
Conferences of Bishops, Opera 
Artis, in which the congrega­
tion stated: "Disregarding the 
warning and legislation of the 
Holy See, many people have 
made unwarranted changes in 
places of worship under the 
pretext of carrying out the re­
form of liturgy and have thus 
caused the disfigurement or 
loss of priceless works of art." 
I also spoke with Bejamin Handy of the National Trust for Historic Preservation in Chicago. He said the Vatican Council is re-evaluating how churches are being renovated to conform with Vatican II be­cause of the loss of irreplace­able beauty in countless churches in both Europe and America. 
Handy is confident that new guidelines will be shortly established. Given that new standards are a possibility, it might be beneficial to postpone major cost expenditures and changes that would conflict with the new document. 
Several area priests will lead an outdoor prayer-vigil for the church at the Church of Loretto on Saturday. April 4 at 
1:00 p.m. Students, faculty, alumni, and concerned members of the community are urged to attend. Prayers will include requests for wisdom, compassion, respect, and acceptance for all, including those standing on opposite sides of this conflict. We asked for the best possible outcome for the church, and for its spiritual community as well. 
Evie Barton South Bend, IN March 30, 1992 

Important questions go unanswered by GSU President 

Dear Editor: 
Please allow me to respond to the 1991-92 GSU President's letter which appeared in The Observer (March 24, 1992). In this letter, the current president attempted to relieve some of his anger and clear up some of the questions surrounding the "extraordinary" GSU elections. There are, however, some qu.estions which have gone unanswered. 
First. the GSU president makes the claim that an ap­pointment without election to the highest post in our organi­zation is not without precedent. Not being a government student myself, it is not clear to me if he is referring to the Bolshevik revolution or that historic incident in Britain when a knock-kneed squire pulled a certain sword out of a piece of rock. 
More seriously, I wonder why, with all the publicity about our upcoming elections, never once was the position of Parliamentarian listed as one of the available offices. Could it be that under the GSU consti­tution it is the duty of the Parliamentarian to insure that elections not only happen, but that they are run in a timely and fair manner? 
Could this possibly be inter­preted as an attempt by the current GSU administration to subvert the very ideals of coop­eration, interaction and excel­lence that are outlined in that very document? 
Our honorable president also mentions something about a "small stipend" that is given to the officers of the GSU. I'm sorry that he wasn't a little clearer about this point. He failed to mention that the cur­rent annual stipend for his of­fice is $1400; he also failed to mention the Graduate Student Council's unsuccessful attempts to further raise this stipend. 
Now this might not seem like a small amount of money when compared to the average salary of most working professionals, but to the average graduate student at Notre Dame, this is a very sizable amount of money. 
Consider, for example, what a graduate student supporting a family of four has to pay to keep his or her family on the University's insurance policy. Those of us who are single only spend around $300 for the peace of mind that should we lose the use of an eye or a limb we will receive $1000 for our misery, while a family of four had to pay $2600 yearly for this same protection. 
If our President thinks his stipend is small, he is correct that the GSU president's yearly income doesn't even come close to $2600. Yet. The sad fact is, many graduate students do not insure their families, simply be· cause they cannot afford it. 

Also consider the cost of day care for such a family. One family I know spent $550 a month between University in­surance and day care. Again, $1400 doesn't even come close to covering this. Perhaps our honorable president should have called his stipend "miniscule." 
Please don't get the impres­sion that the GSC has done nothing about the day care is­sue. This past year a very dedi­cated group of students worked to present this problem to the Board of Trustees. Unfortunately the GSU presi­dent has not been aggressive enough in trying to devise a set of s'olutions to present to the Administration. 
One issue that I know has weighed heavily on the mind of our honorable president is the fact that as students of Notre Dame we are asked to abide by the codes of conduct outlined in that most widely read document duLac. 
Apparently this little red book is a serious threat to our "intellectual freedom." May I say that it is more likely that a graduate student's child will be kicked in the head by a horse and go uninsured than that the 
N.D. Thought Police will charge a graduate student for ignoring tornado sirens or even having sex outside of marriage. Unfortunately, a child was re­cently injured in the manner described, and his father has yet to learn from the insurance company if the cost of the sev­enty stitches will be covered. 
In light of this hypocrisy, and 
at the urging of the people 
whose opinions I value very 
highly, I find myself compelled 
to enter the race for GSU 
President. This decision is 
made with a heavy heart. 
However, I have weighed the 
responsibilities of this office 
against the good that the GSU 
can do, given the proper direc­
tion. 
The very thought of what 
some student's children must go 
without because of a haphazard 
insurance policy, or unavailable 
day care, makes me feel that 
the job is worth wanting. 
Please do not get the im­
pression that I have all the an­_swers for these or any prob­lems; my ego is not so large. I do know that these are our problems, and that we should show some responsibility for arriving at solutions. It takes more than begging the Administration to give us day 
care to get day care. 
It takes more than mediocre 
subsidies for an already paltry 
insurance policy to help out 
young families. It takes more 
than meaningless 
confrontations with the Administration over du Lac to prove you have a true desire to work with people. 
Perhaps with a fresh outlook, we graduate students can rebuild the pride we should feel as being very special members of this community. I encourage anyone and everyone interested to contact me if they have any questions about anything I've written here. 
I also encourage all graduate students to come to the Candidate's Night. One of the pledges you will hear me make is that if elected, every last cent of my GSU stipend will go towards supplies for a day care, if that is what is needed. Whatever is not spent on books, or crayons, or sleeping sacks, will be spent on whatever is appropriate for the GSU. After all, it is the GSU's money, not the President's. 
Finally, I urge every graduate student to vote. If you are un­happy with the candidates, I en­courage you to write-in. If the current GSU administration has its way, we may never have this right again. 
Michael L. Kelly Off-Campus March 26, 1992 
I I I j j j j j j 
j 
l ~ 

l 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~-----------------~---­
f. 


Accent 

l 
l 
page 10 


Jeanne Blasi From the Playpen 
Media's role in rape trials is dangerous 
0 
n campus, sexual assault awareness week sparked a series of anonymous accounts from survivors of rape. The courageous women who wrote letters in to The Observer moved many and hopefully heightened an awareness of rape on campus. 
But, the attitude towards rape aAccusations in general are often skeptical. This view is detrimental both to women and to relations between women and men. 
Many women are afraid to report occurrences of rape because they do not think they will be believed or do not want to go through the red tape. What has society done to make it so difficult to report a sexual crime? 
Perhaps it begins with the media. The media exposes the sexual reputation of the woman, as if this somehow changes our perception of whether or not she was raped. Sadly, this technique often works. 
Rape is unconsented sex or sex that is consented to under conditions of force or threats of force. A woman's past sexual history is irrelevant to this definition. The idea that, somehow, through a moral calculation it is worse to rape a virgin than a woman who has a perceived 'loose' reputation is dangerous. 
The media creates a strong linkage between a woman's sexual reputation and her credibility. Many make judgments as to the defendant's innocence or guilt based on the sexual reputation of his victim. Is this a fair judgement? 
For example, in Tyson's rape trial, his victim was a 19 year old Miss Black America contestant. She was presented by the press as intelligent and wholesome. Her sex life never made front page news. 
On the other hand, Patricia Bowman, William Kennedy Smith's victim, had her reputation destroyed by the media. As they dug up her sexual reputation and those of her witnesses', the media destroyed the credibility of the witnesses and the victim in the eyes of many. 
Regardless of the truth, Patricia Bowman's life will never be the same. Many people saw her as a woman making a ploy for money and media attention. Would the possibility of losing the case and the resulting damage to her character as a result of losing the case be worth any amount of money? She is now labeled by many as making a false rape claim for money. 
And although Tyson's victim won the case, many people accuse her of being careless. She should have 'known what he wanted. • 
This assumption is equally as dangerous. 
And it is often women who wrongly make these hypocritical assumptions. At one time or another. most women have probably been in a potentially dangerous situation; however the situation fortunately never turned into a dangerous one. 
And while women need to use some caution and not purposefully place themselves into potentially dangerous situations, often, a situation does not become potentially dangerous until it is too late. 
So, should women assume that any situation with a male could be 'potentially dangerous'? What kind of male-female relations does this attitude foster? There has to be trust in a relationship. When a man violates this trust, it is in no way. shape or form the woman's fault. So often it is easy to forget this fact. 
Perhaps the next time we hear about a rape case. we will not be so quick to make judgements about the innocence or guilt of the defendant based on wrongful assumptions about the victim or to criticize the decisions of the victim. 
Rape is an inexcusable crime and it should be treated as such. 
Jeanne Blasi is Production Manager ofThe 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 
By JIM BYRNE Accent Writer 
Notre Dame film and video production students promise the Student World Premieres (SWP) will provide quality entertainment tonight at the Snite Theater at 7 and 9 p.m. For $2 the audience will not only see a great show, but also provide an important experience for the film makers. 
Each semester the SWP presents 25 to 30 short works unified under a creative theme. For example, last semester's group parodied a television network interruption during the broadcast of the decisive ND field goal vs. Tennessee. 
Assistant Professor Ted Mandel said the format of tonight's show will not be revealed until show time, but rumors have spread that impending tragedy will befall one of tonight's honored artists. 
In tonight's SWP production, 20 different artists will portray an array of individual styles and techniques. Straight forward to avant guard styled films will be among the show's comic sketches, parities, commercials and documentaries. 
Tonight's show will provide a unique opportunity for the film makers as it is their first performance in front of a theater audience. Until now, their only audience has been their classmates and professors who have concentrated on picking out the editing, picture, and sound deficiencies in the works. 
A theater audience often has different demands than those who are experienced in the production process. The common movie-goer is there to enjoy, not analyze. As a result, student film makers say that some of the scenes which the film class has found to be profoundly dramatic have drawn hysterical laughter in the theater. 
Film and video students have expressed surprise that the Morrissey Film Festival attracted a much larger audience than did the first semester's SWP. They agree 
April Fool's Day, 1992 
that the film fest is a lot of fun, but feel that SWP offers greater quality and diversity. 
Tonight's film makers have the advantages of access to high quality cameras, advanced editing equipment, the training to use them, and the guidance of their professors. 
In recent years, the notable offerings of the film department have attracted increased enrollment, and sent students on to top graduate film programs such as New York University. 
Several of tonight's artists are senior film majors intent on success in the field. Breaking into the field takes talent and luck. Perhaps a student might get the big break tonight with the approach of some production big wig who likes his style. But more likely, the night's grand prize will be an unexpected roar of appreciation for an imperfect production. 
Either way, SWP promises a great show. Expect to be surprised. 

r 
Wednesday, April 1 , 1992 The Observer page 11 
SMC softball travels to face Hope College 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 
The last time the Saint Mary's softball team went on the road, it was south to Fort Meyers, Fla. for a spring break trip and they returned with a 4-3 record. The Belles will be hoping for similar results as they travel to Holland, Michigan, to take on division III rival, Hope College in a double-header. 
The games should prove challenging, as the Flying Dutch are currently ranked third in the nation. 
Despite this, sophomore right fielder Staci Bogataj is confident heading into the games, "I think that we have a realistic chance at coming away with twovictories." 
Bogataj also pointed towards pitching as the key if the Belles are going to be successful. 
..I know that they are quite deep, as far as pitchers, but our pitcher, Lisa Bright, is playing very well this season,.. said Bongataj. 
The two games today will be the Belles first of the regular season, as they have had sev­eral games called due to the weather. including yesterdays game against lUPU-Fort Wayne. 



Panel denies Tyson's request 
(AP)-Mike Tyson's request to be freed from prison while he appeals his convictions for rape and criminal deviate conduct was denied Tuesday by the Indiana Court of Appeals. 
A three-judge panel rejected the former heavyweight cham­pion's request in a two-sentence order released shortly before 
4:30 p.m. EST. One of the judges expected an appeal to the Indiana Supreme Court. Tyson's attorney, Alan M. Dershowitz, confirmed a state Supreme Court appeal was imminent. 
"The petition for bail pending appeal heretofore filed in this court by the appellant Michael 
G. Tyson is denied," said the order signed by Judge V. Sue Shields, acting chief judge of the appellate court. "So ordered this 31st day of March, 1992." 
Tyson went to prison Thursday after being sentenced to six years for convictions for rape and criminal deviate con­duct. He was found guilty of assaulting Desiree Washington, a Miss Black America beauty pageant contestant, in his Indianapolis hotel room last July. 
Marion County Prosecutor Jeffrey Modisett declined to call Tuesday's ruling a victory for his office, but added that "the winner is justice.... The benefit we want to see is that it does tell rape victims to come forth." 
Modisett, however, said he doubted the denial of bail would be reviewed by the state Supreme Court. He said Tyson would likely now serve between six months to a year before a decision is made on his appeal. He said he didn't consider it an indication of victory on appeal. 
"The court in deciding a mo­tion like this considers many is­sues," Modisett said. "They consider the risk of the person committing the same offense, they consider the risk of flight. 
"These are very important is­sues in addition to the likeli­hood of a reversal of conviction. How the Court of Appeals weighs these factors is certainly not for me to decide." 
In an interview, Shields de­clined to disclose the judges' reasons for denying the request after conferring for about three hours since hearing oral arguments last Friday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice. 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
WOAD PROCESSING 256-6657 
$$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat Pandora's Books corner of NO ave & Howard reg. hrs 1 0·5:30 everyday 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277·7406 
Seniors-Seniors Graduating and still don't have job plans? New company that has been actually adding hundreds of people thru dramatic expansion seeks motivated/ career oriented individuals to 
help expansion into new markets. Interviews will be held on April 8 &9 at Career and Placement. Call student liason at x3457 to set up 
times. 
THE BOSS IS BACK!! 
I LOST/FOUND 
I lost a Notre Dame Lacrosse sweatshirt Sat. night somewhere on South Quad. It has #34 on the front and I really need it back. If you've found it, please call Kristine at X3352. 
LOST: One gold hoop earring with a spiral pattern If found please return to 214 Farley or call x4049 
Still lost! Petite green women's class ring. Inside reads "ACS '93". Lost on St. Pat's Day. If found PLEASE return to 143 Farley Hall or caiiAngie at X4095. 
LOST: Gold Louisville Cardinal charm with ruby eye. Sentimental value! Reward! Call271·1177 
Lost Gold Watch Niewland -LaFortune area ? Maria x4421 
lost : men's gold Sieko watch in Rock basement on Sat. Call X4608. 
lost set of keys: One imprinted with ND3, the other with 244. Don't remember where I lost them. call X4608 
LOST: gold chain w/heart overlapping another heart (w/ stone). If found, please call Stephanie at X4914. Much sentimental value. Reward Offered 
LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP­
17B business calculator somewhere on campus. SERIOUS REWARD!!!! John x3588. 
LOST Men's spiral hairbone necklace somwhere between Flanner, Comp/Math, and ROTC Please call Mike x1143 
Need ride to Cleveland(John Carrol U.) this weekend. Call John x1146 if you can help. 
I, myself, cannot.  Lori,  HEY, EVERYBODY! WISH JOYCE DOMINGO A BIG HAPPY B-DAY!  
We are not strong You should be with us, feeling like we do ...  Lunch at Greenfields Cafe was GREAT! Let's do it again. Dan  (or is that April Fool's!) Happy Birthday, JOY DOMINGO! (this is your day... April 1 stl)  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart. Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send Isner with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514.  Happy Birthday Joe Roberts ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS AHOMEANDOURHOMENEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure . Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364·0300 for more information.  to the goddess of cool, hope april fool's is a happy birthday! lcve the amphibian queen kissy·kissy! who's the flasher at campus ministry?  
SUMMER IN EUROPE FORM $2each way on discounted scheduleairlines to Europe from CHICAGOCall (BOO) 325·2026. NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation please call Neal at 283·1159 BEADS?????PAT OBRIEN'S???  51 d BREEN-PHILLIPS 2ND ANNUAL . EUCHRE TOURNAMENT!! SIGN-UPS IN NOH AND SOH FROM TUES. MARCH 31 TO THURS. APRIL 2. Smile ... only 21 more class days until graduation!  Latin expressions will be Friday, April 3 at the Library Auditorium at 7:30. Come one, come all. $2 student, $3 non-students Angie Gregory enjoys white cars and church parking lots. Shannon P. Huneke loves wet noodles and moist brownies.  
WHAT IS SO CRAZY??? I DO NOT UNDERSTAND???? ........................ Custom-made HAIR-BOWS by Lynn and Sally callx2764 -various materials. designs and colors available· ........................  NEED A RIDE TO RALEIGH/DURHAM AREA FOR EASTER BREAK? Looking for 1 or 2 people to share driving, gas, tolls, etc. Call Laura x4804 Vegh and the Woz-man are the gods of Indiana trivia. Call 1908 for details ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322·8187.  If either of these lovely ladies entices you, give them a call at x284·4423 or 4420 I'VE GOT A CHOCOLATE SHAKE! Christmas in April!!! ."You'd better not pout.... Only three days until the annual Christmas in April celebration! (The Final Four will be televised!) ·Santa's BIG RED helpers  l  
Make friends and serve the  Whoaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!  
In the heart of every woman, there is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to come out... NO and SMC students: Informational session on summer programs to London and Rome wil be held at 340 Maldeva Hall at SaMary's on Wed. April 1 at 6:30 p.mFree pizza will be provided. Any questions call Prof. Black at 284· 4460. Spaces still available. CONGRATULATIONS! TO THE NEWEST MEMBER OF THE SENIOR BAA "TEAM" JASON LUBANSKI hey nit STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs Perth, Townsville. Sydney. and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1·800·878·3696. The Lizard King lives on! Down wi community by joining NOTRE DAME CIRCLE K Org. Meeting 7:00 PM April 8 Montgomery Theater Any ? Call John 273-9111 Top 10 Quotes from the CC Texas int Racial War: . 10. I told that teacher X's & Y's don't make no shoes. 9. You guys are the best friends I've ever had-group hurl. 8. When it rains Nova pulls her upper lip over her head and at picnics she pulls her lower lip down for a sack race. 7. Don't walk away ... linger. 6. He twists his arms all around and he enjoys it. 5. We shouldn't be talking to the devil. It's Lent. 4. I'm open to the call of being a prostitute. 3. It's always Beauty and the Beast. in You never see Handsome and the Beastess. 2. I'm Blah, OK? 1. Have penis, will admire!. Remember La Pesca! th  It is the Zeigmaster's birthday. He's been having great sax all these years but not even the army appreciates him. Oh well, wish Matt Zeiger happy 22nd today, but don't tell him to go fly a kite because he might just might go out and design one. Don't tell him to take a flying leap because he just might free fall from a second story window. So just wish him a big "What About, Bob?" happy birthday because it is his favorite movie of almost all time. If your lucky he might do the world famous 3-man lift for you. Keep blowin' Zeig sincerely, Rob (I'll never give you that two bucks) Vazquez, Bob (I'm not a Slacker) Wiley, The KEL TOS· MAN, and Easy. To a tall guy, short guy, two fat guys and Pat. Good Luck on your game today!!!! Love. 3S SMC's THE TUTUS ARE BACK. ..  
the Crustaceans! Garth Brooks is a GOD!  Attention: dykes and fairies freaks and hairies  There I was, there I was, there I was ... in a tutu  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday!!! to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin She sings a song and I listen to what it says-If you want a friend, feed any animThere's so much space, I cut me a piece with some fine wine, It brought peace to my mind in the Summertime, And it rolled!  Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters invite you to participate in their April Fool's Day Test at 4pm behind Lyons Hall. Festive attire a must. Value people Challenge the status quo Keep an open mind (panel discussion to follow the contest). al george bush will be taking a break from the fear and loathing of the campaign trail to support the team. thank you for your support  VOTE FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN SBA TREASURER. JAMIE O'BRIEN I need ANY extra graduation tickets you have ....... They're for my Uncle Bill (Clinton} Call Lisa 283·4833 "Jose Cuervo, you are a friend of mine .... llike to drink you with a little salt and lime ....... •. WANT COED HOUSING? Sign the Petition Mon 3/30-Wed 4/1  

LOST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!LOST: GE DOUBLE CASSETIE PLAYER @ At Zahm Jam at Thee's. If you know of its whereabouts 
please call: 284·4382 ThaRks Easter Bunny 
I WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDAENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800-786-83 73 
I need a ride to Vanderbilt any weekend. Will help pay gas, etc. Call Rich@ x1695. 
Female roommate wanted for May. Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $415/mo plus utilities. call (312) 975-5035. 
STUDENT NEEDED to manage the Notre Dame area of an Ann Arbor Business. No experience nee. but must be motivated, May 'til July. Good$. 313-930-6962 2-5 p.m. 
Looking for experience to place on your resume? Need Notre Dame or St. Mary's students for part-time sales positions, from April through July, 1992. to sell advertising in Daily Shillelagh. Seeking motivated, enthusiastic, outgoing, and professional students with reliable transportation. Send resume to Karen Prebys, Penny Saver, P.O. Box 326, South Bend, IN 46624. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
• fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1·206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 
Need ride to North Carolina May 8th or 9th Will split tolls and gas Call Dave 3633 

grips, stencils, whatever 
I FOR RENT I t;~,~::~~26 
'=BE=-=D~'N=-=-=BR==E~AK=F=-=-A=sT=-=R=E~G=Is=TR~Y~ 
219-291·7153. 
3 Bedroom 
Walk to Campus $555 Month 232 3616 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOS· 12 NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. ­Ironwood & Bulla • 2 B/A -2 Bath • available immediately · call 287· 0534 or 271·9268. 
1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO. 232·2794. 
Newly remodeled 4-bdrm, 
2-bath home. Near Lafayette Square Townhomes. All kitchen appliances, washer/dryer. 2-car garage. $700/mo. Ref. & 10-mo. lease required. 277·4583. 

Summer sublet· Turtle Creek 2-bdrm, furnished 271·8466 
SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAP!!! Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4 students rent negotiable. 2 bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt X3414 or 3410 
SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE CREEK) 272-9540! • 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., for large 4-BA, furnished house. Complete security system; washer & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259­7801 or 255·5852. 
Attractive studio's in lovely old Mansion 1/2 mile from NO 225· 300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 for summer and fall rentals. 
6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO CAMPUS.FUANISHED.272·6306 
FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy 3-story house, ample parking, security, close to NO. 272·5509. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? TWO 19991 SMC GRADS NEED NONSMOKING FEMALE ROOMATE BEGINNING JUNE 1. $290/MO INCL. HEAT, PARTIAL FURNISH, N. SIDE APT. 1 BLOCK FROM LAKE.PLEASE CALL ASAP (LOCAL) 219-271-1443. ASK FOR 
I FOR SALE 
GARREn 
For Sale: '83 NISSAN SENTAA: 4-dr, power brakes, excellent mileage, engine hums like a dream, new exhaust/brakes, great travel car, very reliable! $1 ,950 (firm) 
STUDENTS & PARENTS! SAVE on those housing costs. Buy this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Get a break on your taxes, and a return on your investment after graduation. Call Janet Knapp at REIMAX 100 realty for more information. 219-255-5858 or 219· 277-7402. 
I STRING TENNIS RACKETS Cheaper than the Eck! 
I I
TlC K ETS 
. 

For Sale: chp. 1 wa~ tick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. Jim x1558. 
One way ticket. Sth. Bnd. to Pgh. on 4/15. $80. Call Lee. # 1200 
-FAST CASH-Need "any" 2 commencm't tix. Promise them now tor big bucks ... PLEASE!! Karen 2770 
Paul Tsongas wants tickets!! Total $$for 2-4 grad tix Mickey x1846 
PERSONAL I 
IN DIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. Office near campus. 
The Observer 
\ 
'· 

NBA STANDINGS . NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
I 
l . 1.._ 
~ 
1 
\ 
\ 
~ 
\ 
I ~ 
J 
I ·,'. 
I ~ 
' 
\ 
'·\ 
~ 
) 
i j 
~ ) ­


I./ 
I 
~ 
~ 
1 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Divlaion 
w l Pet GB l10 x-NewYork 46 26 .639 7-3 Boston 42 30 .583 4 7-3 Miami 34 39 .466 12 112 5-5 New Jersey 32 39 .451 13 112 5-5 Philadelphia 31 42 .425 15 112 1·9 Washington 23 49 .319 23 2-8 Orlando 17 55 .236 29 3-7 Centr111 Division x-Chicago 59 13 .819 9-1 x-Cieveland 49 22 .690 9 112 8-2 Detroit 42 31 . 575 17112 4-6 Atlanta 35 37 .486 24 6-4 Milwaukee 30 42 .417 29 3-7 Charlotte 29 42 .408 29 1/2 5-5 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Dlvlalon 
w l Pet GB l10 x-Utah 47 24 .662 7-3 San Antonio 42 30 .583 5112 4-6 Houston 37 36 .507 11 3-7 Denver 23 50 .315 25 2-8 Dallas 18 54 . 250 29112 1·9 Minnesota 12 60 .167 35 1/2 1-9 Pacific Division x-Portland 51 22 .699 6-4 x-Golden St 48 23 .676 2 6-4 x-Phoenix 48 25 .658 3 9-1 LA Clippers 40 32 .556 10 1/2 8-2 Seattle 40 32 .556 10 1/2 6-4 LA Lakers 39 32 .549· 11 7-3 Sacramento 24 48 .333 26 1/2 4-6 
x--clinched playoff berth. Monday's Games 
New Jersey 117, San Antonio 109 
Charlotte 123, Orlando 112 
Utah 120, Milwaukee 100 
Golden State 124, Philadelphia 106 Tueaday'a Games Late Games Not lnluded 
Chicago 96, New York 90 
Cleveland 123, Miami 114 
LA Clippers 97, Detroit 81 
LA Lakers 107, Houston 101 
Phoenix 128, Portland 111 
Utah at Seattle, (n) 
Golden State at Sacramento, (n) Wednesday's Games Washington at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Miami at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Atlanta at Indiana. 7:30 p.m. Charlotte at Chicago. 8:30p.m. New Jersey at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Orlando at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. LA Lakers at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Thuraday'a Games 
New York at Charlotte. 7:30p.m. 
LA Clippers at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. 
Denver at Houston, 8:30p.m. 
Golden State at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. 
Utah at Portland, 10 p.m. 
Seattle at Sacramento, 1 0:30 p.m. 
Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
Lost 1  27-10  19-16  29-17  
Won6  29-7  13-23  26-21  
Lost 1  25-11  9-28  23-24  
Wont  22-14  10-25  21-24  
Lost4  21·15  10-27  19-29  
Won 1  12·25  11-24  13-33  
Lost4  10-27  7-28  13-37  
Won3  30-5  29-8  40-7  
Won 1  29-5  20·17  36-11  
Lost 1  22·15  20-16  25-22  
Lost 1  21-16  14·21  20-26  
Lost 5  25-11  5-31  21·26  
Wont  20-16  .9-26  19-27  
Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
Wont  32-4  15-20  29-14  
Lost 5  28-7  14-23  29-16  
Lost6  25-11  12·25  23·24  
Lost 5  17-20  6-30  13-32  
Won 1  13-24  5-30  12-33  
Won 1  7-29  5-31  9-36  
Lost2  29-7  22-15  31·14  
Won4  26-9  22·14  29-14  
Won5  32-5  16-20  29-16  
Won6  26-11  14-21  25-22  
Lost 1  23-13  17-19  27-17  
Won5  21·14  18-18  23·20  
Won 1  17-18  7-30  12-32  

WALES CONFERENCE  
Petrick Dlvlalon  
w  l  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Away  DIY  
y-NY Rangers 49  24  5  103  312  241  278-4  22-t6-1  18-15-1  
x-Washlngton 44  26  7  95  324  267  25-12-2  19-14-5  21-11·0  
x-New Jersey 37  29  11  85  281  247  23-11-4  14·18-7  13-14-5  
x-Pittsburgh 37  30  9  83  331  290  19-13-6  18-17-3  14-14-3  
NY Islanders 32  35  10  74  277  296  19-15-5  13-2Q-5  12·15-6  
Philadelphia 31  34  11  73  236  257  21-10-7  10-24-4  10-19-5  
Adame Division  
y-Montreal 41  27  10  92  262  200  27-8-4  14-19-6  16-9-5  
x-Boston 34  32  10  78  254  263  22·11-5  12·21-5  14-10-4  
x-Buffalo 30  34  12  72  277  282  21·12·5  9-22-7  tt-12-6  
x-Hartford 24  40  13  61  236  272  12·17-10  12-23-3  10-15-6  
Quebec 18  47  11  47  239  306  17-18-3  1-29-8  9-14-5  
CAMPBEll CONFERENCE  
Norrie Division  
w  L  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Away  DIY  
y-Detroit 41  25  11  93  308  248  24·12-3  17-13-8  t7-10-2  
x-Chicago 36  27  14  86  250  226  23-8-8  13-19-6  t5-10-4  
x-St. Louis 34  33  10  78  268  259  23-t2-3  1t-21-7  9-17-3  
Minnesota 31  40  5  67  233  262  19-15-3  12-25-2  t2-14-3  
Toronto 29  41  7  65  226  280  20-15-3  9-26-4  t4-16-2  
Smythe Divlalon  
y-Vancouver 41  25  11  93  277  238  23-9-6  18-16-5  t9-9-4  
x-Los Angeles 34  30  14  82  279  292  2Q-10-9  14-20-5  t5-12-6  
x-Edmonton 35  32  10  80  285  282  21-12-5  14-2Q-5  14·12-6  
Winnipeg 30  32  15  75  236  236  20-14-6  10-18-9  12-14-6  
Calgary 29  36  11  69  280  292  18-13-7  11-23-4  t4-14-3  
San Jose 17  55  5  39  209  344  14-21-3  3-34-2  8-21-3  
x-clinched playoff berth .  
x-won division title.  
Monday's Games  
No games scheduled  
Tueedey'a Gemea  
Chicago at Detroit, 7:35p.m.  

Philadelphia at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Boston at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Minnesota, 8:05 p.rn Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 
IRISH SOFTBALL 

ST. XAVIER AB R H 81 NOTRE DAME AB R H 81 McCue. cf 3 0 1 0 Alvarez. cf 4 1 2 0 DeScheler, 2b 3 0 0 0 Folsom,c 
3 0 2 0 Russell, H 3 0 1 1 Hayes, rf 3 0 0 0 Heinrich, as 3 0 0 0 Pinter, 1b 3 0 1 1 
Johnson, dp 3 0 0 0 Conn oyer, 2b 2 0 0 0 Kuslnski, 1 b 2 0 0 0 L.Miller, H 3 1 1 0 Rohan, rf 3 0 0 0 Boulac, 3b 2 0 1 0 RauwoH. c 3 0 0 0 Quinn, dp 1 0 0 0 Yurik. 3b 2 0 0 0 Kmak.ss 2 0 0 0 Neal,p 0 0 0 0 
Dykes, pr 0 1 0 0 
7. ~1
TOTALS 25 1 2 1 TOTALS 23 2 
E-Miller, Boulac. LOB-NO 8, ST. X 4. 2B-Russell, Fulsom. S-Folsom, Boulac. PITCHING ST. XAVIER IP H R ER BB so Neal 6 7 2 2 4 2 
NOTRE DAME 
Linn, (W. 6-7) 7 2 3 
A-ooo. 
BASEBAll American league 

BALmAORE ORIOLES-Waived Eric Hetzel. pitcher, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
BOSTON RED SOX-Waived Dana Kiecker, pitcher, lor the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. Assigned Paul Quantrill, phcher. and Eric Wedge, catcher, to Pawtucket of the International League. 
CLEVELAND INDIANs-Waived Jerry Browne, infielder; Mike Aldre1e, outfielder, and Shawn Hillegas, pitcher, for the purpose of giving them their uncondhional releases . 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms w~h Kevin Se~zer. third baseman, on a one-year contract. Optioned Joe Kmak, catcher, to Denver of the American Association. Placed Julio Machado, phcher, on the restricted list. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Optioned Terry Jorgenson, third baseman; David West, pitcher; and J.T. Bruett, outfielder, to Portland of the Pac~ic Coast League. Sent Bernardo Brito, outfielder, to their mnor league camp for reassignment. Placed Paul Abbott, pitcher, on the t5-day disabled list . 
TEXAS RANGERS-Optioned Brian Bohanon, pitcher, to Oklahoma City of the American Association. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Placed Dave Stieb and Mike Timin, pitchers. on the 15-day disabled list, retroactive to March 27. Placed Rance Mulliniks, infielder, on the 15-day disabled list, retroactive to March 28. Optioned Ed Sprague, catcher. to Syracuse of the International League. National league 
CHICAGO CUBS-Waived Les Lancaster, pitcher, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
CINCINNATI REDS-Waived Tim Layana. pitcher, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Placed Darren Reed, outfielder, on the 15-day disabled list. Waived George Canale. infielder, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. Optioned Mel Rojas. pitcher, to Indianapolis of the American Association. 
PITISBURGH PIRATES-Sent John Wehner, third baseman; Carlos Garcia and Jeff Richardson, infielders; Brian Dorsett, catcher, and Rick Reed, pitcher, to their minor league camp for reassignment. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Waived Craig Worthington. third baseman. for the purpose of giving him his uncondhional release. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTs-Agreed to terms whh Roger Craig, manager, on a one-year contract extension through the 1993 season. Placed Mike Benjamin, infielder, on the t5-day disabled list. Placed Andres Santana. infielder on the 60-day disabled list. Purchased the contracts of Craig Colbert and Jim McNamara, catchers, from Phoenix of the PacWic Coast League. Announced that Rafael Quirico, pitcher, has cleared waivers and has been offered back to the New York Yankees. Waived Eric Gunderson. phcher, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. Released Rafael Novoa, pitcher. 

THE NEW ALBUM FEATURING BETIER DAYS.
THE NEW ALBUM FEATURING THE TITLE TRACK. THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTOH£ ..on tne campus.. OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 9-5 PRICING GOOD THROUGH 4/10/92 
____________....._____
~---------~--~---~---­
Wednesday, April 1, 1992 The Observer page 13 

concern," MacLeod said. "They miss. a shot, but then they get




NIT Cav's coach NIT finals expert 
the ball back." 

continued from page 16 
percent. 
In the first game with Virginia, Notre Dame had some pr.oblems with its man-to-man defense, but MacLeod feels his team will find some answers this time around. 
"We've played man-to-man all year. There's no need to change now." he explained. "We are more sure of ourselves and we are playing better team basketball." 
MacLeod is worried about the Cavaliers rebounding capabilities, which they showed on Monday, when they had a 42-34 advantage over Florida. 
"Rebounding is our main 
Virginia forward Bryant Stith led his team with 27 points and 15 rebounds against Florida. 
"Stith has a big, tall, rangy body. He has a knack of going to the offensive boards, which is something he'll be able to do on the next level (NBA) as well," MacLeod commented. 
To be successful, Virginia must get other people involved in it's offense. In January freshman guard Corey Alexander scored 22 versus the Irish. 
"The key for us is to get something out of the other besides Stith," John explained. If Notre Dame can prevent this from happening, the Irish should be able to celebrate-its first-ever NIT championship. 


This is your last chance to 111ake sure you are in the SENIOR CLASS VIDEO! Turn in pictures by FRIDAY, APRIL 3 to the Student Activities Office -315 LaFortune 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-When Notre Dame faces Virginia tonight in the NIT finals, Cavaliers coach Jeff Jones will be looking to put his name in the history books and on trivia cards. 
With a win, Jones would be­come the first person to ever win NIT titles as both a coach and as a player. The second year Cavalier boss was Virginia's starting point guard as a sophomore in 1980, when the Cavs defeated Minnesota to win their first NIT Championship. 
"The NIT was the first time a lot of us came into New York City," Jones said Tuesday. "As far as basketball was con­cerned, we played UNLV, so there was a lot of excitement surrounding that flrst game (of the NIT final four)." 
The Cavaliers' excitement turned into production, as Jeff Lamp's 31 points helped Virginia outgun the brightest star on that Cavalier team. 
Freshman Ralph Sampson carried Virginia a long way to­ward the NIT title that year, a season which set the stage for three straight Naismith Awards. But Sampson first showed off his postseason leadership leading the Cavs to the 1981 NCAA Final Four at the 1980 NIT. 


Jeff Jones 

"We really came together against Michigan," said Jones. "They were forced to go man­to-man against us, and that meant Ralph Sampson was down low with only one Michigan player guarding him. The game was done at that point." 
After that win, Virginia trav­elled to New York and pounded UNLV in the semifinal. Then the Cavs went up against Minnesota in the final, led by big men Randy Breur and Kevin McHale. 
"The Minnesota game was similar to last night's games," Jones recalled. "A real defen­sive struggle, without a whole lot of pretty offensive plays. But two teams going very hard at one~ another." 
With 15 points from Sampson, 13 from Lee Raker and nine from Lamp, the Cavaliers downed the Golden Gophers, 58-55. 
"It was a great feeling to win the NIT," said Jones. "I can remember somebody had some smelly cigars that they passed out to the team. I guess that's supposed to be fun." 
So Jones will again try to ~ guide his team to the NIT Championship. As a coach, he has gotten out of the blocks fast, becoming the winningest first-year head coach in the Atlantic Coast Conference his­tory last year, bringing the Cavaliers to the NCAA tourna­ment with a 21-11 record. 
At only 31, Jones. could have his name on quite a few trivia cards before his coaching .ca­reer is over. 
Jones' freshman assist record was erased by Cavalier starting point guard Cory Alexander in Monday night's game. Alexander's career-high nine assists gave him 139, breaking the Cavs' freshman record set by Jones during the 1978-79 season. 
Alexander and Junior Burrough rank as the second­and third-leading scorers for Virginia, averaging 10.9 and 
13.3 points per game, respec­tively. The two freshmen played high school ball together, as well, leading Oak Hill (Va.) Academy. 





Softball 
continued from page 16 
senior Melissa Linn needed. Linn breased through the St. Xavier lineup, but started to loose control as the conditions worsened. 
"It's hard to pitch in that kind of weather. Every time I got a dry ball, by the time the umpire threw it back to me it was wet again," said Linn, who 
"::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~~~========-surrendered the only Cougars' 
r run in the sixth. She finished the game giving up only two hits and one walk, while striking out two, to boost her record to 6-7. 
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. CORPORATE FINANCE ANALYST PROGRAM (Chicago Office) 
The Investment Banking Division at Merrill lynch recruits recent college graduates into the Corporate Finance Analyst Program, where they work with corporations and institutions. The division 
acts as a financial intem1ediary between corporations and investors, offering financing alternatives and 
advisory services. New analysts will talke part in a six·'Ycek training program in New York at Merrill 
Lynch's World Headquarters before joining the Midwest Industrial Banking Group in Chicago. 
While this has traditionally been a two-year position, a number of analysts are invited to remain for a third year, and several of these are hired as first-year associates after completing their third year. 
When considering candidates for the positions in the firm, we look for a record of outstanding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement, work experience, and demonstrated leadership skills. Successful candidates are articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others . 
.( 

We look favorably on degrees in all subjects, though some familiarity with accounting, econorrucs, finance, and computers is helpful. Knowledge of these areas suggests an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytical '"''Ork. 
All of these positions require a commitment to meet a demanding pace as well as the energy to see a project through, often under pressure. Menill Lynch offers a competitive compens..'ltion package and an innovative relocation program. 
Potential candidates should submit a resume (no student profiles please) to the Career and Placement Office no later than Aprill, 1992. 


"The conditions made it as close as it was," noted Boulac. "The ball was hard to handle. The errors were made on throws after they picked the ball out of puddles. 
"Maybe it should have been cancelled earlier, but they came (from Chicago) and we tried our best to get the game com­pleted. 
"We did well at the Southern Invitational and wanted to build on that. We wanted to beat somebody we were sup­posed to beat and we did." 
The Irish will begin the de­fense of their two straight Midwest Collegiate Conference title at home this week­end...weather permitting. 

\__-­
page 14 The Observer 
SMC tennis gets burned by Flames 
-· 

~ 
\'·:· 

I 
J 
,\ 

( 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team(6-5) lost 2-7 yesterday against the University of lllinios-Chicago. 
The Flames, coached by Marla Matt. are a stro.ng Division I contender. Illinios­Chicago has improved their women's tennis program this year. recruiting four players to fill their top positions. 
In singles play, number one senior Ellen Mayer lost to Mara Lurcina, 6-1, 6-4. Ranked in the second position. senior Marie Koscielski found a tough competitor in Janet Rausa, los­ing 6-0. 6-2. 
Sophomore Mary Cosgrove, ranked third, was successful 6­4, 6-2 against Wana 'Ao Watson. Watson played in the first position last year when Saint Mary's defeated Illinios­Chicago 8-1. 
According to Nester, Cosgrove played well and consistently. "She had a strong serve and was tough at first, but then I just got used to it.", Cosgrove said. 
Junior Natalie Kloepfer. ranked fourth, was unable to defeat Chrissy Stone, falling 6­
1. 6-1. Sophomore Thayma Darby gave Mary White a hard time in the fifth spot, but was unable to come out on top, los­ing 6-4, 3-6, 7-5. 
Freshman Andrea Ayres added to her new impressive string of wins. topping her op­ponent, Elana Thrope, 7-5, 6-4. 
In doubles play. Mayer and Koscielski lost to the White 
/Lurcina duo, 6-3, 7-5. Cosgrove and Ayres lost to Rausa/Watson, 6-4, 6-4 • in the number two spot. And the third duo of Darby/McGinn had their first lost of the season to Stone and Thrope. 6-3, 4-6, 7-6. (7-4). 
..We played well. The match is more than the scores show.". Nester said. 
The Belles will be travelling on Sunday to compete against Bowling Green State University. 
The Observer/M. Schroop 
A St. Mary's tennis player returns a serve in a recent match. 
~ J ,.. '0' J
~~ ~y ~--~ ~ :; ~: ;~1 :; t Ul Arabic at the University of Notre Dame 
• 
It is spoken by over 180 million people in the Middle East and North Africa. 

• 
It is the devotional language of more than one billion Muslims. 

• 
It is the language of a region of the world of crucial international importance. 

• 
It is the ancestral language of more than 5 million Americans . 


• Introduction to Modern Arabic 
MLAR 101 I Fall 1992 
MWF 12:15-1:05 
Dept. of Classical and Oriental Lang. The University of Notre Dame 
THE TOP 5 DIFFERENCES BETWEEN 


AND 
SYR 
*5.  NO NAVY BLAZERS AND KHAKI PANTS AT SWP.  
*4.  AT SWP, YOU DON'T HAVE TO DANCE TO FAST SONGS.  
*3.  NO NEED FOR WITTY, IDLE CHATI'ER TO KEEP DATE  
INTERESTED AT SWP.  
#12.  AT SWP, YOUR DATE WILL COME BACK FROM THE  
BATHROOM.  
*1.  YOU'LL HAVE A GOOD TIME AT SWP !!! .  

SWP-STUDENT WORLD PREMIERES 
the best ln student ft1m and video from n.d. communication & theatre WEDNESDAY-APRIL FOOL'S DAY-7:00 & 9:00 PM-AT THE SNITE admhalon $2 
Wednesday, April1, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

IISports Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number. and the dates the brief is to run. 
•The Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon-Fri from 7 a.m. to 4 
p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
•Irish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports, LaFortune Info desk. and the Dining Halls. For more information. call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball team captains who don't have their schedules stop by the S.U.B. office on Jhe second floor o LaFortune to pick up a copy of the schedules and a team list for your team. Preliminaries start on Monday. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball participants accept Commish Kevin McGee·s cl!allenge and be at Stepan Court at 5:00 to see him in his boxers in agame of 1on1 against all comers. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball prelims this week. Rain or shine. the action ison the courts! Extra. schedules and team lists atthe SUB offic. (Found; ..}flistwatch gpStepan courtS•• call x1224 totO~ it. , 

•sports 
Talk returns tonight at 8 p.m. ·~;; WvFI after a long hiatus. Call in to congratulate new Sports Director Noah Cooper or to say goodbye to Nick.Campanella and Mike Pfarrer. rr !!Refere~s are needed for Bookstore XXI games. Anyone mtereste~ shquld .contact B()bby at 283·3!}15 ofPatrick at 283­4078 by Apt:ll.9~ ..il~!F~. ..•r•· '•hit <•· ·•.·. Wi;·••:::•?W•t 



Jftmlbl®9 

Happy 21st Birthday to our April Fool's Baby. 
Love, Mom. Dad. and Mark 
-:,-:;--­
-. 
. . .~,.:.,..M·· 

SUNDRY, APRIL 26 7:30PM MORRIS CIUIC AUDITORIUM All SEATS AE.SERUED: $19.50 
AURILABLE. AT THE. AUDITORIUM BOH OFFICE, 
TRACKS,ORB IT RECORDS. AND UJORLO RECORDS 
CHARGE: 284-9190 
t 
.. 
SMC
:y 
f ' 
SURV 5KRACE 
J.i 
!i ~; 
For Runners and Walkers Everywhere 
~} 
,.·,. 
•' 
:) 
Thursday, April 2 3:30p.m. Angela 
j. 
11 
Registration starts 3:10p.m. with a $3 fee. 
~ 
1 
I 
Door Prizes Will Be Awarded! 
I "' 
I '· 
Questions? Contact Kelly 284-5442 
I 
: ! 
Dalloway's Coffee House Jeanne Rodes--A Poetry Reading Friday, April 3 4p.m. Respect Our Mother Earth-­BringYour Own Coffee Mug! 
•! 
( 



Today 
Wednesday, April 1 , 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
11oYJ LON& UNTIL R£AL-tz..E.5 DORMS HAVE CALL WAITIN 
CALVIN AID HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
~\'S KIT~ t'iE":> ARt Q.\tmNG.


M~ TIGER 1'5 ~p 
\N sc-MNCLEJ~T S\.£EP, 
~E. DR£~t.\~ 0~ ~ 'SI>R\~\1\-\G 
SA~SM~. 't{OO'U.. ~ '0£

DRCA~ING Cf ~P.SES 
DI'St-\EMBtR£0.'

REM£M8£R£.D.' 


ACROSS 40 -and Joan 14 Have a runny nose 
41 Faucet 15 Game-show prize1 Chair part 43 Levitate 17 Work with hair 6·----potatoes 44 African capital 20 Head inventory 
11 Soviet peninsula 45 Spanish painter 23 Pet ­13 Plant parts 46 Kiddie 24 Like Eric 15 "-With My Aunt" 47 Mr. Bogarde, et al. 26 Jabs 16 Annoy greatly 48 Outfit 27 Damp and humid
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN 
18 Stirs up 49 Send forth 29 Make ecstatic 19 ----Buck 51 Show of recognition 30 Rosemary and 21 Slapstick prop 53 Shows anger basil 22 Bridge words 54 Dissolved substance 32 Advocates of 23 Arctic explorer 55 Force units correct language24 Russian river 56 College in Maine 33 Rich cake 
25 Jail 34 Expressions peculiar 26 Lois Lane's boss, DOWN to a 1anguage 
----White 35 ----relaxation 27 Charlton Heston 1 Writers 36 Part of a pool tablE 
role 2 Type of candy 37 ----mile 28 Farsighted female 3 Resided 38 Military gestures30 Rush violently 4 Iowa college town 40 Compulsion 31 Tennis term 5 -Aviv 42 -organ32 Cribbage need 6 Traffic circle 44 Championship33 Long, abusive 7 ----tower 45 Social event 
speech 8 Ringlet 47 Repair 36 Actor ----Meredith 9 Hardwood 48 ----monster 39 Playwright Clifford 10 Most profound 50 Negative reply
12 Slander 52 Mr. Petrie 
LECTURES Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Lenten Series 1992 Honoring the Sisters of the Holy Cross, ..Seeking God in the Marketplace," Patricia Vandenberg, C.S.C., president, Holy Cross Health Systems. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
While vacationing in Africa, Pinocchio has his 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, 
longtime wish to be a real boy suddenly and 
"Smart Wing Structures, Design for the Future," Terrence
unexpectedly granted. 
Weishaar, professor, School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Purdue University. Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 
CAMPUS

MENU 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Program in Public Service Third Annual 
Wednesday 

Policy Colloquium: "Recovering the Dream: Is Affirmative
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Action an Appropriate Policy for the 1990s?" Panel on students scheduled to interview are invited. Sponsored by 
6 p.m. Presentation for United Conveyor Corporation. All Affirmative Action in Education: Betty Vetter, executiveSpinach & Cheese Batter Fried Perch 
director, Commission on Professionals in Science and
Career and Placement Services. Foster Room, LaFortune. 
Tortellini w/ Cheese Enchiladas Technology, Washington, D.C.; Howard Adams, executive8 p.m. Discussion: ..Sharing Jerusalem: The Political andMushrooms Vegetable Stir-Fry director, National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for
Religious Challenge." Speakers are Yehezkel Landau
Baked Red Fish Minorities in Engineering and Science; and Gary Hunter,(Jerusalem) and David Burrell, CSC (Notre Dame). Sponsored
Sirloin Steak 
director, Department of Affirmative Action and Humanby Department of Theology. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Sandwich Resource Development, Miami University, Ohio. Sponsored8 p.m. African Film Festival, "The Best of South Africa by Hesburgh Program in Public Service. Auditorium, Galvin
News." Sponsored by Mrican-American and Mrican Studies Program. Center for Social Concerns. 
Life Science Center. 
Soph.omol"e Li,tef'a.ry 'TA}{TASlA 
Thursday, April 2 
8 PM & 10:30 PM
Festtva.~ 

1993 Committee Applications BVBSY 
Friday, April 3
Due April 10 

Saturday, April 4 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Cushing Auditorium
,\pplications available from Barb at the Student 
Admission Is $2. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD

Government Office 
-··-·--··----­
Sports 
page/date Wednesday, April 1, 1992 
•
St. Xavier, weather no match for streaking Irish 

. 
}{ 
~~ 
\) 
~· 
.·, 
...\ 

~ 
<~ 
\ 
;,-... 
\\'
',/
'1 
~ 
\)''
}J{
·,I
,'·i
;.if 
~~\ 
'• . ' 
)' 
,\ 0 
\ . 
I 
., 
;;\
\.,, 
\ .; 
1\I' 
•
\.'. 
,. 
. J 
·i ·\ 
~:r 
1( 
\~ 
I {:·' 
\ ..,' 
I 
I'· " 
(I
!, 
.~{
' 

.r,J ' 
'  i  
~  :...  
(  .:  
'· .  I··\  
f  r.  


..... 
·' 
JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 

Names highlight _ bookstore excitement 
The world's largest outdoor basketball tournament started play yesterday at various sites around the Notre Dame campus. As always, the tournament provides some thought provoking team names (or at least those that make it past the censors) for everyone's enjoyment. 
No, this won't be another one of those top ten lists that all unoriginal Observerites love to write when we can't think of anything better, but rather a mental wandering. As I read over the list of 704 team names, I found a few that just made me go hmmm. 
Some of the names made me wish that my team was scheduled to play those teams in the opening rounds. For example, team number 17, "One guy, an­other guy, and three other guys." Any team that can come up with a name as blatantly unoriginal as that makes me wonder. Team number 40, "The top 5 reasons to give to the United Way" and team number 45, "Spot us 19 and We'll Kick Your Butt" also sound very scary. 
These teams sound like the quintessential underachieving, apathetic teams that really don't expect to make it past the first round, but plan to have one helluva good time along the way, an objective of my team and the majority of teams participating. 
Father Burchaell, Wilt Chamberlain, and HPC made several team names as did the the Ross brothers. Here are some of my personal favorites that really cause me wonder to wonder what type of people thought them up. 
."Magic Johnson, Wilt Chamberlain, McDonald's and 2 other guys who served over 20,000," "Jon, Joe, Dr. Kevorkian and 2 other guys that remind me of suicide," "Fr. B's Study Group," "HPC, Hannibal Lechter, Jeff Dahmer, and 2 other guys who will take you to lunch," "Clarence Thomas, the Ross twins, and 2 other guys who shouldn't be on the court," and my all-time favorite, "Wilt Chamberlain's Love Children." 
Here's a few more which really make me muse (something my Arts and Legos brain is used to) and which I really like because they are so topical. 
•"
5 monkeys that fly out of Wayne's butt". 

•"If 
you think we're tough, you should see the guy at the ticket window if you don't have your Visa" 

•"The 
Leaking Implants" 

•"Tsudents 
for Tsongas" 



•"Pee-Wee 
Herman's school of Ballhandling" This column wouldn't be complete without listing these gems: 


"How many outs does it take to get a touchdown,'' "2.0=B.A.," "You can't spell rat without R.A.," "Five guys who beat Detroit Mercy," "Hypothetical Sex," and the name that scares me the most, "U better B nice to us, We Make Your Food." 
Why ask why. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
• SMC tennis falls to lllinios.. Chicago 
see page 14 

• 
SMC to face Hope College see page 12 

• 
Tyson heads to jail 


see page 12 
By JIM VOGL 

Assistant Sports Editor 
Through the cold drizzling rain, the Notre Dame softball team (14-12) emerged victori­ous, beating Division II St. Xavier 2-1. The second game of the scheduled double-header was cancelled. 
"The field held up well through about the first four in­nings,"said Irish coach Brian Boulac, who has seen two home games and two away games al­ready washed from his schedule already, "But at that point we could tell we couldn't play the second game even if it stopped." 
Before things got too sloppy, Those two runs were all Irish
The Observer/J. Bingham 
the Irish jumped out to an early
A strong defensive effort keyed Notre Dame's 2-1 win. see SOFTBALU page 13
lead. Ronny Alvarez led off the 
Irish, Cavs to battle for NIT title 
By MIKE SC~UDATO 
Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-After Notre Dame was 
pummeled by Virginia, 83-56 on 
January 18 to fall to 5-8, who would 
have thought the Irish would get a 
chance to avenge the thrashing in the 
NIT championship game? 
Tonight the Irish (18 -14) face the 
Cavaliers (19-13) at 9 p.m. for the 55th 
NIT title. The game will be televised 
by ESPN. 
"They shut down a lot of things we 
wanted to do (in the first game}, " Irish 
coach John MacLeod said. "We 
couldn't get anything to go down, and 
• Virginia coach Jeff Jones is familiar with NIT title games/page13 
we couldn't contam them." 
"Our players have high regard for 
Virginia, but are they confident? Yes, 
they are." 
Cavaliers coach Jeff Jones realizes that the first match up will have little ...effect on tonight's final. 
"That was just one of those games," 
Jones commented. "There was no way 
we thought we were 27 points better 
than Notre Dame." 
Both teams will rely on defense to 
carry them to the NIT title. 
"Last night's game told the story of 
our season," Jones said. "We shot 
poorly, but played well on the defensive 
end." 

"We will have to continue to do the 
job on defense and make them (Notre 
Dame) work for everything." 
Notre Dame's defense has carried 
them to the finals as Irish opponents in 
Peters
the NIT have shot a combined 35 
Laphonso Ellis, show here in the regular season matchup against Virginia, will lead the Irish in their attempt to earn the school's first ever NIT championship. 
see NIT/page 13 

Lacrosse wins third straight over Ohio-Wesleyan 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
To open the fourth, Colley continued 
Sports Writer his barrage, scoring consecutive goals 
and diminishing any hopes of a 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team earned comeback by the Bishops. Schirf and 
its first win ever over Ohio-Wesleyan , Tom O'Brien finished off the scoring
topping the Bishops 11-5 at Selby Field with assists from Colley.
yesterday. While the Notre Dame offense notched 
up another double-digit scoring effort, 
Randy Colley's hat trick, led a the Irish defense held the Bishops to 
balanced Irish scoring attack which was their lowest scoring output of the 
complemented by the best performance season. OWU was held to only 34 shots 
of the season by the Notre Dame on goal
defense. 
Robbie Snyder scored two goals in the Both teams entered the matchup with 
first period, giving the Irish a lead they hopes of improving upon their 3-3 
would never relinquish. record, but only the Irish climbed above 
Randy Colley the .500 mark. 
The second period exemplified the The win was the first in twelve tries
scoring in the second half. His second
defensive nature of the game. A paltry against OWU, a streak of futility which
goal was followed by followed by scores
thirteen shots on goal by both teams stretched back to 1981. It also was the
from senior Brian Schirf and Willie
resulted in only one score. Irish captain third win in the row for the Irish, a list
Sutton. Nineteen seconds before the end
Mike Sullivan tallied his first of two which includes wins over Lake Forest 
goals in the game, putting Notre Dame of the third period Colley scored the and nationally ranked Hofstra.
first of his goals to raise the Irish lead to
up 3-1 at the half. The Irish face Denison Saturday in Sullivan started an explosion of 7-3. search of their fourth straight win. 
bottom of the second with a slap-bunt single. Amy Folsom methodically advanced her to second with a sacrifice bunt. Stephanie Pinter drove her home with a single. 
In the second, Notre Dame's offense went to work again. Amy Miller, subbing for Carrie Miller in left-field, reached base with a slap-bunt. Sherri Quinn hit a long fly to center, advanc­ing Miller to third. The run came in on a wild pitch by Cougars' pitcher Heidi Neal. 
"She tried to throw a riser and it just got away from her," explained Boulac. Neal surren­dered two runs, seven hits and four walks through six innngs. 

_.------------------~ -----------------..._..-­
.....,..---._,_,....,._ -~-----~-~-~ -~----~-~ --~-~ ----------, 

NOTRE DAM1 

sur 


---HI---Selnt Merx't Convent NOTRE LAME • INDIANA 


College of Business vows to end cheating 
Dean looks toward varsity athletes to shine as beacons of honesty 
By I. DIDNT DOlT committees and personal inter­know, and will receive corre­tions found the football players you,"' Holtz said. News Plagiarizer views, and have found all mem­spondence credit for their ef­innocent of any improprieties. Most of the students expelled bers of the college except the forts." "These guys should stand as from the college were found 
In a surprise move, the Col­men on the football team guilty The announcement leaves just role models for the rest of this guilty of cheating on depart­lege of Business Administration of violations," said Dean John 80 students in the college. school. And I don't mean that mental exams. Clues that viola­announced yesterday the expul­Keane. "These kids have always com­just because they're bigger than tions were taking place in­sion of e_very business plained about big classes, so me." cluded one mass exodus to the student-except members of the All the students in the college they should be glad this hap­Football players make up the bathroom during an accounting football team-for cheating and on the women's volleyball team pened," Keane added. top one percent of students in test and several finance exams unethical behavior. have also left the University, but Still, the ratio of students to the college, with a grade point done in loopy handwriting and 
College officials said they re­for strictly personal reasons. professors will remain at 70:1. average of 3.5. Their success in blue magic marker. 
gretted the decision but felt that "There is no reason to suspect · To counter the effects of the the college, especially the mar­they had to take a stand to these ladies were involved in expulsion, the college will offer keting and management de­Additionally, the fact that 95 show the community their anything suspicious or out of fewer classes next semester and partments, doesn't surprise percent of the students on one commitment to academic excel­the ordinary. They've left Notre only nine sections of "Business Irish Coach Lou Holtz. introductory marketing exam 
lence. Dame to tend to their personal Ethics." "I always tell them, 'Do what answered "all of the above" to "We've looked into this businesses at home. These you have to do to get by, do it every trick question led college through several honor code ladies are entrepreneurs, you Keane said that the investiga-just like the girl sitting next to officials to the culprits. 
Three dead after Commons riot 
By JOHN HOLMES 42, were confirmed victims of said Moon. Almost-Legal the incident. Friends of the injured at­Common's Correspondent Percy, of John MacCleod-look­tempted to contact the police 
alike-fame, was the first to from the phone inside the bar, 
Three died and dozens were attack the blood-thirsty hoard but were restrained by Bar­injured when a hoard of mad with a cry of "Thunderdome! tender Joe Tangle. South Bend residents engaged Two teams enter, one team Tangle later admitted to in a brutal battle with hundreds leaves. Long live South Bend police officers that of Notre Dame students outside Thunderdome!" he did not allow those in The The Commons, 826 North Eddy, He was later found scalped. Commons to use the phone be­early yesterday morning. Age and Glendilla were killed cause of explicit tavern policy 
Witnesses estimated that ap­during later brawling, when restricting phone use to those proximately 75 seemingly in­they were struck by the car of a not consuming alcohol, includ­sane persons approached the South Bend policeman. ing those under age 21. bar approximately 1:15 a.m., "They were underage," Tan­taunting those inside with er­Authorities arrived on the gle said. "I just wanted to keep rant jeers about the Ross twins. scene at 2:24 a.m. Notre Dame my job." 
Over 100 students and faculty Security reported that all units In other Commons news: poured out of the front door were in the process of trans­• Four Regina Hall residents armed with plastic pitchers and porting deep bruise victims to reported watching 11 men uri­beer steins, and dozens of Memorial Hospital for treat­nate on the side of the facility. hand-to-hand fights ensued. ment. Implicated in the report, one 
Neither the origin, the desti­S.U.D.S. Sgt. James Moon re­male said, "They piss on us all nation nor the motives of the ported that the excise police the time'inside, why shouldn't mob was immediately evident. were breaking up two large we return the favor?" 
Two Notre Dame students, gatherings on Notre Dame Ave. Police could not comment on Gunther Age, 20, and Strom "We seized three empty kegs of the report as they were Glendilla, 22, as well as one Little Kings Cream Ale and ar­indisposed at the time of the Commons regular, James Percy, rested two for consumption," incident. 
Loretto goes '70s with Disco decor 
By BELLE BOTTOM depiction of the 12 apostles. Church Goer Both students and sisters alike enjoyed the service and felt the new church was 
The opening ceremony of the "newly" an improvement over the old church. renovated Church of Loretto was held "I felt the new church was nifty," said yesterday. Buffy Brady, a Saint Mary's freshman. "I 
The originally planned renovations don't know what people were so worried were altered to include 1970s disco deco. about. The renovation committee did a Upon entering the Church, visitors now groovy job updating the Church." pass through strands of love beads in Members of the renovation committee place of the very heavy doors. have claimed that now that students have 
In order to overcome lighting concerns, seen the changes, they appreciate them a series of lava lamps and strobe lights just as the committee had stated they have been incorporated in the design in would. order to add light and enhance the "Students were looking to preserve 
atmosphere. tradition without realizing that a mQve 
A disco ball now hangs over the alter into this century would be beneficial," which now serves as a disco dance floor said Sister Mary Travolta. "Now students in the center of the church. Thirty foot realize that the new understanding of the speakers have been added to overcome liturgy and the church as a community or the acoustical problems of the old Church commune, they will enjoy mass more, complete with a selection of hits of the and begin to live as a community based 1970s ranging from Van Morrison to the on free love." Village People. One student suggested that the name of 
Orange shag carpet has been laid over the Church should be changed in order to the marble flooring and pews have been preserve a new tradition. "I believe we replaced by the more comfortable bean should change the name from Church of bag chairs and hammocks. Loretto to the Commune of Loretto or 
An artist's rendition in velvet of the Club Loretto," said Lori Partrige, a Saint Stations of the Cross have been added Mary's junior. "That way we could begin over the mosaics. Velvet portraits of Elvis a new tradition dedicated to the and Saint Mary's President William preservation of the 1970s and the new Hickey also adorn the walls of Loretto. church. 
While controversy over the windows Father Barry Manilow dedicated the rose to enormous propositions the Church in an opening ceremony, where in committee decided to replace the 18th the spirit of the decor, he abandoned the and 19th century windows with more traditional religious dress in favor of a 
updated versions incorporating nude polyester leisure suit. 

The Absurder/Animal Lovin' Crack Smokin' Photographer 
Just Ducky 
Due to a lack of squirrel photos, The Absurder is pleased to present our rendition of the Rockne Memorial Stadium if it had giant swans in it. While normal sized swans can often be seen by the lakes on sunny days, rainy days often bring giant swans to the stadium. Tonights weather is expected to be rainy, and by the way, the stadium is still being considered for renovations. 


April Fool's Day, 1992
page 2 The Absurder 
• 

INSIDE JOKE 
TODAY'S NEWS FOR TOMORROW'S BIRDCAGE 
Farr says: Just do it 
Due to the success of my 
recent columns suggesting,,,,,,,,,,,.,.:,:,,."', alternate lifestyles for the • 
uptight Catholics on this campus, I've decided to offer you-my loyal fans-another dose of my unique theories. 
Today I present The Farr Smortz Ten Commandments Voyeur (according to Farr): 
Ladies of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, you shall have no other gods to rival me. 
Women, you shall masturbate (yes, ignore those uptight nuns who told you you were "dirty down there") to carved images, velvet paintings or any likeness of me. 
You shall not misuse the name of Farr, your god. You may not. however, become upset if I call you the wrong name-after all, you're just another piece of chocolate cake. 
Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy-after all, you'll be tired after breaking parietals on Saturday night. 
Honor your father and your mother, well just your mother who I'll admit I lust after. You shall not kill unless someone steals your 
chocolate cake. You shall not commit adultery. NOT! You shall not steal unless someone else's 
chocolate cake looks really tempting. 
You shall not give false evidence against your neighbor unless she's one of those really, narrow-minded Catholic types. (But of course you won't find any of those at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's.) 
You shall not covet your neighbor's house unless he's got a really sweet waterbed. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife i she's say more like cherry pie. And please dear followers, above all remember Farr's Golden Rule: JUST DO IT! 
SECURITY BEAT-OFF 
Gridiron convicts reach new heights 
•NOTRE DAME-This year's Notre Dame football team has broken another record-the number of team .. arrests/disciplinary actions has reached a · new high, according to Athletic Director Richard "Dick" Rosenthal. "We're so proud of our boys," Rosenthal said. "We thought Mike (Stonebreaker) and Tony (Brooks) would hold the record for some time, but this year's team really came through," he added. The team broke the old record when Senior Troy Ridgely was arrested for the 14th time-this time for throwing pretzels in Basix. University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy refused to comment on the issue. 
Burtchaell to assume new position 
•NOTRE DAME-Father James Burtchaell has been appointed the new rector of Pangborn Hall, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. Moore said Burtchaell was being put in charge of the newly-designated women's dorm to "keep him out of trouble." Burtchaell will serve as rector of Pangborn for ten years, but with good behavior could be moved to Zahm as eady as 1995, Moore said. University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy refused to comment on the issue. 
HPC calls on local poor for help 
.NOTRE DAME-1992-93 HPC Co-Chair Marianne Ravry announced today that not only will HPC have their dinners paid for by the student body next year, but poor South Bend residents will be arrested and forced to serve the Council the food. "You don't expect us to carry around trays, do you?" Ravry said. University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy refused to comment on the issue. 
Monk still alive: some have doubts 
•NOTRE DAME-Father E. William "Kegger" Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University, said on Tuesday that University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy is indeed still alive. Beauchamp even gave The Observer a picture of Malloy playing basketball outdoors with a little calendar next to him that said "March 31, 1992." Doubts about the photo's authenticity arose, however, when reporters noticed both St. Michael's Laundry and Green Field in the background. Saint Mary's College President William "Gimme A" Hickey refused to comment on the issue. 
SUB and Kravitz-more close ties 
•NOTRE DAME-Former SUB Manager Lynn Ramsay told The Observer that she and rock/funk singer Lenny Kravitz were wed in a private ceremony in Stepan Center on Sunday. When asked if the wedding had been planned for a while, Ramsay replied, "Of course. Why else would we be so stupid to lose all that money on him?" Student Body Vice-President David Florenzo refused to comment, but did say he and the Cult's frontman, Ian Astbury, have been "spending long monogamous evenings together," since the concert. 
Kirk unveils custom latex sheaths 
•NOTRE DAME-Assistant Vice-President for Student Affairs William "The Boy Wonder" Kirk disclosed plans on Tuesday to launch his own line of latex condoms. Called "Billies for Your Willies," the new condoms will feature Kirk's picture on the tip and will reveal more of his qualifications the further they are rolled down. "I figured I'd cash in on all my popularity," Kirk said in a news conference at the Infirmary. He added that if the Billies are successful, he'll introduce a similar product for tall guys with big ears called "Monk's Punks." No comment yet from William "Gimme A" Hickey. 
Profs uoset about smoking rule. dude 
•NOTRE DAME-Professors in the Peace Studies and PLS department are decrying the University's new anti­smoking degree as a means of discrimination against their majors. "How are we supposed to recruit new students i the image of the cigarette-smoking, baja-wearing, LaForune-hanging-out-in crunchy is robbed of its central focus?" said one professor who wished to be called only "Dude." Huddle and Waddick's regulars are also quite angry. "They're turning this campus into one big, sterile Allegro," said one PLS major who refused to be identified by anything other than "The Philosopher King." University President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy refused to comment on the issue, but the debate still smolders. 
Hicke~ bails out on the press-again
•NOT E D ME-Caving into pressure from the press to be more accessible, Saint Mary's College President William "Give Me A" Hickey called a press conference in LeMans on Tuesday. Hickey did not show up; however, and sent Director of Public Relation Brett McLaughlin in his place. McLaughlin answered reporters' questions while wearing a shirt that said, "I'm a Hickey! You're a Hickey! Wouldn't You Like to Be a Hickey, Too!?" Notre Dame President Father Edward "Monk" Malloy refused to comment. 
Keenan season officially over 
•NOTRE DAME-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women, after months of kissing up to Keenan Hall residents, have officially gone back to dating real men. According to Paige Smoron, campus gossip columnist, "Keenan season is over." Smoron explained that each year from December to March campus women kiss up to Keenan men in hopes o getting tickets to the Keenan Review. ''I'm so happy I don't have to hang around that dorky dorm anymore." 
MON. MARCH 30 
11 :35 a.m. A case of Diet Coke was reported stolen from the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs. 
4:23 p.m. Notre Dame Security escorted a North Dining Hall worker to St. Joseph's Hospital after the victim fell into a vat of meatless baked ziti. 
12:48 a.m. A Notre Dame male reported hearing bed springs squeaking in the room above his as a possible violation of Du Lac. The call was disregarded by Security, since sexual activity does not occur at this University. 
TUE., MARCH 31 
Noon Notre Dame Security would like to congratu­late the parking lot patrol for issuing 253 parking cita­tions yesterday. This broke the old record of 237 park­ing citations issued during last year's commencement ceremony. 
1:56 p.m. Missing person report: University officials reported the loss of their president. The president could have disappeared as long as five years ago, but no one has noticed he was gone until today. 
2:40 a.m. While investigating suspicious activity in the Security Building, Notre Dame Security found several officers in violation of the University's alcohol policy. When questioned, the officers said that they were just showing some students from LaFortune how silly they looked drinking while working. 
WED., APRIL 1 
9:44 p.m. The entire Notre Dame Security Force responded to a report that two students were sitting in front of the Administration Building to protest DART. 
9:48 p.m. A student reported that white males had exposed themselves in each aisle of the D-2 parking lot. Security was unavailable to respond and no suspects were apprehended. 
9:49 p.m. Carroll Hall residents reported that their dorm was engulfed in flames. Security was unavailable to respond, and the building was destroyed. 
9:52 p.m. Fourteen students reported being accosted by a man in a blue jogging suit on Saint Mary's Rd. Security was unavailable to respond and no suspects were apprehended. 
9: 53 p.m. The residents of Knott Hall reported a mass murder and several rapes. Security was unavailable to respond and no suspects were apprehended. 
9:55 p.m. A Theodore's manager requested that a woman had gone into labor and needed transportation to St. Joseph's Hospital. Security was unavailable to re­spond. 
10 p.m. Students in the Grace Hall reported the theft of 500 wallets, 500 stereos, 70 Orange Bowl champion rings, 500 class rings and 500 "Top 10 Reasons Beer is Better than Girls" t-shirts. Security was unavailable to respond, and no suspects were apprehended. 
10:32 p.m. Two students were escorted from the steps of the Administration Building to St. Joseph's Hospital for treatment of lacerations and several broken bones incurred at the demonstration. 
Today's Staff 

News 
Bill 'Research' Beauchamp 
Sports 
Patty 'Sweet do' O'Hara 
Letters We Feel Like Printing 
Ed 'You can't find me' Malloy 
Photography 
Bill 'Shutterbug' Hickey 
Production 
Bill 'The Jerk' Kirk 
Advertising 
Rich 'Money Money Money' Rosenthal 
Note: This is only a joke. If you are annoyed by any1hing in this issue, face it: YOU HAVE NO SENSE OF HUMOR! 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore "On The Campus" 
Announces tW"o great ne-w products! 
Administration Blow-Up Dolls 
That's right! Get an inflatable companion that looks just like your favorite administrator! No more lonely nights! Now you can curl up with your favorite campus boss and do exactly to them what they do to us! Only $19.95 each! Try a Monk, a Beauchamp, or even an O'Meara. Sorry, all the Patty O'Haras are sold out. Don't worry, there on order! 
THE HPC DIET! 

This softcover guide helps you learn how to eat like craz y and still not pay a cent! You'll even get a bonus chapter, "How to Be Publicly Abrasive" by HPC badboy Rich Delevan. Now for only 15.95! Hall Presidents and newly-elected Student Body Officers can pick up their complimentary copies at the photo desk of the Bookstore. 
-
Letters We Feel Like Printing 
April Fool's Day, 1992 page 3 
AS IF YOU CARED. LETTERS WE AGREE WITH 
We're on a soapbox...Again 
In an effort to set the record straight The Absurder has decided to let our readers know exactly where we stand on the issues. 
Things we feel strongly about: 
• 
We are against rape. 

• 
We are against crime at the Five Corners. 

• 
We are against the alcohol policy and parietals. 

• 
We are for the honor code, especially its even 


enforcement. _• We are for the freedom of all squirrels on this campus. 
• 
We are for total jackasses speaking at commencement. 

• 
And most of all we are for better relations between 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Things we sort of feel strongly about: 
• 
We are against the recession. 

• 
We are against the weather in South Bend. 


• 
We are against Lenny Kravitz, the Cult, and Howie Mandel-if they are brought in by SUB. 

• We are for safe havens. 

• 
We are for the freedom of chalk writing for all human beings. 


• We are for the freedom to socialize in LaFortune Student 
Center. Things we don't really care about: 
• 
The spread of AIDS on campus, why should we, the University doesn't. 

• 
The growth of NO as a research institution, since the football program will always carry the rest of the school. 

• 
That HPC binges every week; after all, the homeless shelter gets enough money from our school and Domino's. 

• 
That Monk is still alive; after all who would notice the difference. 


GLND/SMC no longer patronized 
Dear Editor: 
As we are aware that the sta­tus of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) has been an issue of concern among the student bodies, we would like to an­nounce that as of today, April 1, 1992, the University has formally recognized the group as a sanctioned club with full club status. 
To accommodate the group as it grows and flourishes, the University has committed itself to undertaking the following tasks: 
•Over 
the summer, the Uni­versity will renovate the base­ment of the library to be opened in the fall as the GLND/SMC social center and multisexual center. 

•The 
group will receive free advertising and the use of any and all University logos in all campus publications, the Na­tional Review, and Common­weal. 

•Group 
leaders will be named to the Board of Trustees and will have two votes each. 

•Pangborn 
and the Administration Building will be made safe havens. 


•Monk and I will wear special GLND/SMC access-only beepers to make sure we are in 24-hour a day contact with the group. 
The list goes on and on. We 

· want to make certain the com­munity realizes our sincerity and commitment to making GLND/SMC the best student or­ganization on campus. 
Sincerely, I wish I was 
Patronizing O'Hara Vice President for Student and Faculty Mem­ber Affairs 

Student to return with new views, body 
Dear Editor: 
It has been a long time since I have written. After leaving the University last semester, I did some soul searching. I spent a lot of time trying to discover the real me. 
I have travelled the country with my new spiritual gurus, the Reverend Al Sharpton and Molly Yard. After talking to people from the bayous of Louisiana to the potato farms of Idaho, I learned what was wrong with my life. 
I needed help learning how to understand and relate to other people. Fortunately, my problem was corrected with a 
few surgical procedures. 
In order to share my experi­ences with the rest of the cam­pus, I decided to reapply to the University, as a white woman. I am proud to say that I have been readmitted and will be a resident assistant in Pangborn Hall this fall. 
After all that has gone on, I have obviously also decided to change my major to gender studies with a concentration in minority affairs. 
As a women who likes to speak her mind, I have several projects which I am planning to begin in September. First, I hope to organize a lecture series beginning in the fall on Interracial Dating. 
Second, I want to work with the University's Counseling and Psychological Services Center to set up a phone help line for those considering sex changes, 239-SNIP. Third, Theodore's will host a cross-dressing fash­ion show. 
However, my big project is a support group called Students Without Arousable Privates or SWAP. 
I look forward to returning in the fall. Insincerely, I have never been 
Paulene Peralez Soon to be in Pangborn April1, 1992 


The Monkster establishes safe havens for sinners who smoke 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, the University's Task Force on Smoking presented its 2594 page report to the Administration and the Board of Trustees. Along with the report, the University Task Force on Smoking submitted a list of recommendations. The University decided to put into effect a number of these sug­gestions effective Fall, 1992. 
Since that time, a number of professors and graduate stu­dents have asked for a clarifi­cation of the locations where it is still permissible to smoke. 
In this letter, I would like to list the five locations in the Michiana area where the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Adminis­tration will allow the members of the community to smoke: 
1. 
The far left corner of boat do.ck on the St. Joseph's Lake. 

2. 
On the big black grease spot in the middle of the inter­section of Douglas and Juniper on alternate Tuesday's in months with fewer than six let­ters. 



3. 
The Common's parking lot. Smokers 16 years and older are encouraged to use The Com­mon's lot to inhale, but are also asked to bring protective bul­letproof clothing and a cellular phone. 

4. 
The third booth on the right and second stall in the men's bathroom in the Library Pit, but only if GLND/SMC members agree. 


5. Club 23. Anytime. 
The University had deemed these locations appropriate to satisfy the needs of those people in the Notre Dame community. 
For those who would like to take this opportunity to give up smoking, the University will have a temporary nicotine gum dispenser placed in the Univer­sity Health Services building for two days. 
These guidelines have been added to Du Lac, as well as the consequences of violating the University's smoking policy. 
1. First time offenders will be assigned twenty hours of community service at the ethanol plant. 
2. 
For a second offense, the guilty party will be tarred and feathered. He or she will then be made to stand in LaFortune and pass out flyers for the American Lung Associa­tion that say 'Do you want your lungs to look like me?' 

3. 
For each subsequent violation, the offender will be sent to Gary, Indiana, to pump gas on the Interstate for one week. 


Edward 'Monk' Malloy hiding somewhere on campus April1, 1992 

William Hickey goes public 
Absurder photo spread 
Mter complaints that he was inaccessible to Absurder writers and photographers, Saint Mary's College President William "Take My Picture, Please" Hickey has turned over a new leaf. He recently agreed to pose for this exclusive Absurder photo spread as a means to make ammends for past wrongs. Hickey showed a spirited side of his personality, allowing The Absurder to accompany him on television appearances and at a modeling show he did in Niles, Mich. 
.._ 
The Absurder!E.F.Q.R.KLM. Wailey 

Photo identification, from left to right:Bill"Bang Bang" Hickey shown in his latest movie, "RoboPreslll." Hickey making a guest appearance on the Johnny Carson show reading mail seized from SMC students' mailboxes. Hickey's latest modeling venture: "Catwoman in Spandex '92." 
"'> 
Athletic Supporters 
page4 April Fool's Day, 1992 
Jesus disses women's basketball team 

McGraw: 'Christ can't even slam' 
By JOCK IICH 
Sports Guru 
In a shocking development, it was announced today that the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team has lost its top recruit for next season, further adding to the dilemma faced by coach Muffet McGraw. 
In the tradition of Michelle Marciniak and Audrey Gomez, the number-one high school player in the country, the Lord Jesus, has rescinded a verbal commitment to attend Notre Dame, citing personal reasons and the MCC conference as rea­sons in a released statement. 
Considered to be the best player of all time coming out of high school, Christ led Our Lady of Lords of Wilmington, Delaware to four undefeated state championships and a 108­game winning streak 
A perennial All-State selec­tion, the Lord chalked up some impressive statistics, averaging 
73.9 points, 24.2 rebounds, and 
13.2 blocked shots per game. A field goal percentage of 98.0 percent (missed a couple one night when tired) is considered by all aficionados of the game to be a career record unsur­passable. 
If there is a knock on the Lord, it's in the assist depart­ment, where no assists are to be found. May also occasionally hog the ball, but still, no one can shoot the trey quite like the Lord. 
The fact is, this is a serious blow to the women's basketball team. After losing Marciniak and Gomez, they have failed to hold on to an obvious franchise player such as the Lord, who instead has mentioned Miami (Fla.) and Butler as possible options. 
One must question what's going on here. 
The Lord was unavailable for any comment, and coach Mc­Graw declined to talk about this latest blow to her program. 
The women's basketball team banquet was to be held last night at Tippecanoe's, but in a minor coup, all the players went to see "Wayne's World" instead, leaving McGraw with a rented copy of "Home Alone." 
JOHN MacFRO, 
JOHNNY BOY 
REFRESHING TASTE OF SPRITE TOY FAST-BREAK THAT BROKE-MEISTER PICKIN' UP THE BIG "T"-MEISTER MACKY WACKY HAIR MAN RATHER PlAY IN THE NIT MAN PLAYIN' BROOKS MAN GETTIN' FUNNY LOOKS MAN BEATIN' UCLA MAN LOSIN' TO BUTLER MAN FIGHTIN' IRISHMAN BLUNDERDOME KING 
• 
I. 

One 'Fro enters, One 'Fro leaves 


"It just doesn't matter." 
EAT MY SPORTS SHORTS 
Rosenthal guits to join Peace Corps 
•NOTRE DAME -Athletic Director Richard "Dick" Rosenthal resigned his position of chief administrator of athletic affairs at the University of Notre Dame today, leaving the way open for talented understudy and rehabilitated criminal Ivan Boesky to take his place. Rosenthal cited personal and financial reasons in an official statement released at a brown-bag luncheon press conference at the Center for Social Concerns. "College athletics are polluted," said Rosenthal. "All people care about today is money, and quite frankly, people, I don't give a damn about dollars and cents." Rosenthal, munching a hot pastrami on rye, stated that he intends to change his name to Kareem Abdul-Quadaffi and join the Peace Corps. 
Varsit~ athletes to receive BMW's 
•LASEGAS -University of Notre Dame varsity football players will receive complimentary BMW 395i's (in Notre Dame colors) as part of a new NCAA bylaw passed at the request of NO Executive Vice President Father E. 'Wild Bill, Wet Willie' Beauchamp. "This gives us a decent chance to recruit for a change," said Beauchamp in a satellite interview from the Sands Casino in Las Vegas. "I've been tearing up the roulette tables, so I figured that was a sign to go for the gusto, give the kids a decent set of wheels to show our appreciation and help the recruits make up their minds." At press time, the blue and gold, leather-trimmed convertibles were parked in Stepan Center awaiting distribution . 
Hasta Ia vista. Muffet 
•NOTRE DAME -In his first official act as athletic director, Ivan Boesky terminated the contract of women's basketball coach Muffet "Please stay, I'll pay you"· McGraw. Boesky began talks with the wife of former UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian. "If Tark signs, expect a flood of junior college players," said Bqesky. "If we sign him by July, then his recruits should be eligible for the new BMW incentive program." Mrs. Tark was hesitant to accept the offer for her husband due to the sighting of several Irish ballplayers with noted playboy and presidential candidate Bill Clinton. 
Irish ~laaers a~rehended 
•INTE C URSE, a.-Senior defensive lineman Troy Ridgely, 'unior quarterback Rick Mirer, junior linebacker Demetrius DuBose and the two remaining members of the women's basketball team were apprehended at a topless Karaoke bar in Intercourse, Pa. by Pennsylvania state troopers disguised table dancers. Ridgely was found sacrificing a live cow in the kitchen, while DuBose and Mirer were held on charges of underaged drinking and poor Karaoke style. The women's players were arrested for offering to demonstrate their ball-handling skills to an undercover officer. 
"Indiana" Holtz %oes leather 
•SAN FRANCISC -Irish football coach Lou Holtz will sponsor a seminar entitled "How to effectively whip your players into peak performance" this Saturday at the Center for Social Concerns. Holtz, taking a cue from Hoosier basketball coach Bobby Knight, quipped "that little sucker really stings if you know how to work it. I've never seen Willie (Clark) run so fast in my life." This seminar coincided with a rash of football player visitations to the infirmary complaining of welts. Former women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw was seen to be whipping hockey coach Ric Schafer in a demonstration of Holtz's new motivational technique. Photos of the spanking will appear in the next issue o Bondage Today. 




