-~ -~-------------.. 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 48 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Global leaders remind Clinton 
I 

of superpower responsibilities 
LONDON (AP) -Global lead­Some European politicians ... democracy, legality (and) ers today reminded Bill Clinton worry that Clinton might respect for human rights and of Washington's responsibilities quickly cut U.S. military basic freedoms," Yeltsin said in as the sole superpower and said strength in Europe at a time a telegram to Clinton, according revitalizing the U.S. economy is when they believe an American to the !TAR-Tass news agency. important to the entire world. presence is desperately needed Foreign policy took a back 
Iraqis danced in the streets to because of increasing instabil­seat to the economy in the U.S. celebrate President Bush's loss. ity. election campaign, but many but Kuwaitis were heartbroken. governments said Clinton must 
• Soviet reaction page 3 

Across the continents, reaction recognize America's global was generally upbeat, although • Election aftermath pages 6, 7 leadership. several leaders expressed "I believe the leadership of the concern that Clinton might lead Prime Minister Brian Mul­United States is as necessary as the United States on a more roney of Canada, a Bush ally, ever to preserve peace and protectionist path in trade. expressed hope that Canada enhance democracy and a Chancellor Helmut Kohl of would maintain its close rela­market economy all over the Germany, in a somber message, tionship with its southern world," President Roh Tae-woo said "close solidarity" with the neighbor. of South Korea said in his con­United States "is even more President Boris Yeltsin of gratulatory message. important as we face new Russia hoped for a continuation In Japan, Foreign Minister challenges after the end of the of the partnership established Michio Watanabe said a revital­East-West conflict." during the Bush presidency, ized American economy "is "Our hopes for a more said presidential spokesman important not only for the peaceful world and for the car­Vyacheslav Kostikov. United States alone but also for rying out of human rights, "We hope the new U.S. ad­Japan and for the whole world." The Observer/ David Hungeling democracy and a market econ­ministration will continue active He had been quoted Tuesday Applauding the President omy everywhere in Europe and support of Russia's reforms, by the national Asahi newspa­
Vice President-elect Albert Gore and his wife Tipper cheer on Bill
in the world still have not been building the foundations of a per as fretting that the 
Clinton's election to the United States presidency Tuesday night in 
fulfilled," he said. market economy on the basis of 
see CLINTON I page 4 Little Rock, Arkansas. 
Bush vetoes $27 billion urban aid and tax bill Leege: Election polls 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­The tax bill contained ele­mittee, was "disappointed but dent Bush on Wednesday made ments of Bush's stalled not surprised" by the veto, said 
tend to be misleading 
good his threat to veto the $27 blueprint for revitalizing the a committee aide who declined billion urban aid and tax bill, economy and luring businesses to be identified by name. By KENYA JOHNSON continued. "Who's ahead and who's slip­
killing the measure because of to hard-pressed inner cities and The measure would have ex­News Writer ping: that's what seems to beits tax increases on businesses rural areas with enterprise panded tax breaks for Individ­Although most election polls the focus," he said. "I raise aand upper-income Americans. zones. ual Retirement Accounts, re­are accurate, they can be mis­question of journalists servingHe signed the veto on Air But Bush said, "The urban aid newed tax breaks for research leading, according to David the public in the best manner.
Force One as he flew home in provisions that were once the and restored the targeted jobs Leege, a Notre Dame professor There needs to be more em­
defeat from Houston. Bush's centerpiece of the bill have tax credit. 
of government. Leege chaired phasis on the information and action kills the measure be­been submerged by billions of But it also included such tax the Election '92 study and par­the candidates, not just who's 
cause Congress has adjourned dollars in giveaways to special increases as limiting the deduc­ticipated in the creation of winning." for the year. interests." tion for job-related moving ex­various polls. Leege admitted that there 
It was Bush's 46th veto, sev­penses to $10,000, requiring Election polls are misleading were far too many polls this eral coming after last month's Some Republican lawmakers individuals with sizable considering they account for election year. adjournment. Only one veto -as well as Democrats had urged amounts of income not subject popular rather than electoral "The amount of polls taken of a bill tightening regulation of the president to sign the bill to withholding and large corpo­votes, Leege said. just proves my point that too 
much emphasis is placed on thethe cable TV industry -has and nursed hopes that he would rations to pay more tax in ad­"The national popular votes position of the candidatesbeen overridden. do so despite his pre-election vance and taxing securities don't really concern. the politi­rather than the candidatesvow not to raise taxes again. dealers' inventories at market cians," he said. "It's more sig­themselves," he said. 

"I am withholding my ap­Congress delayed sending it to value. 
nificant to know which candi­Election polls presented byproval ... because it includes the White House after final date is winning what state. broadcast and print media are numerous tax increases, vio­passage on Oct. 8 in a vain "The original focus of the bill Public opinion polls don't usually accurate, according to 
lates fiscal discipline and would attempt to change Bush's mind. -to help revitalize America's necessarily project that." Leege. But one aspect of polling destroy jobs and undermine Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., inner cities -has been lost in a Generally, mass media's he questions is the voter sample small business," Bush said in a chairman of the tax-writing blizzard of special interest primary concern is the "horse­of each poll. written message. House Ways and Means Com-pleadings," said Bush. race" of the campaign, Leege see POLLS I page 4 
Architecture School to hold symposium 
By JASON WILLIAMS day at 8 p.m. in the foyer of the Students began work as early News Writer architecture building. as last January in order to have "Cheryl Stafford is a historical their exhibits ready for this 
The School of Architecture dance specialist and choreog­weekend's event. Ben Bolgar, a will host a symposium and ex­rapher," Smith said. "She will graduate student has been hibition on Grecian architecture lead the ball and get the guests working on a Greek klismos and furniture in the Great involved in participating (in chair since the beginning of this Lakes Region during the mid­dances from the 1840s)." semester. ninteenth century Friday and The two-day event is being "The difficulty comes in work­Saturday. held in conjunction with the ing with the wood and fixing the 
University's sesquicentennial joints together, " Bolgar said. 
"The primary things that have celebration. The 1842 Ball, "That's when you run into all been done in preparation for speakers and exhibits are free sorts of problems, and trying to the symposium has been the of charge and all students and solve those problems is the creation of four models of faculty members are inVited to challenge." houses in the Midwest region," attend. Bolgar is making his chair to be exhibited in the School, According to Smith, Notre from tiger maple, or "curly said Thomas Gordon Smith, Dame's School of Architecture maple," a type of wood common department chair of the School tries to hold one or two sympo­to the Great Lakes area. of Architecture. siums per year, each based on Professional specialist Robert 
"The scale is so large-one and subjects relevant to student and Brandt has worked non-stop one-half inches equals 10 feet­faculty interest. since early February in that it has allowed them to "By having these symposiums, preparing his model of the capture much of the detail-but we are able to lure prominent Joseph Swift residence, a it is really meticulous work." speakers to the campus, " Smith building so large that the model 
Along with the exhibition, an said. "This helps bring is approximately 10 feet by 10 1842 Ball featuring Cheryl prominence to the School of feet after it was scaled down. Stafford and the Cincinnati Architecture both nationally Court Dancers will be held Fri-and internationally." see ARCHITECTURE I page 4 


--~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Saint Mary's 
• 
coverage 1s 1mprov1ng 
Recent criticism regarding Saint Mary's coverage in The Observer has been taken to heart. A valid concern expressed is several letters to the editor is that unequal consid­Anna Marie eration was given to 
Tabor 
Notre Dame and Saint Saint Mary's Editor 
Mary's regarding --:-----::---:-:­
headline size, quotes, page placement of articles 
and exposure of important events. 
While neither the Notre Dame rior the Saint Mary's staffs are completely blameless, any inadequacies in coverage are not the result o maliciousness, but rather human error and unfortunate oversights. SMC sports coverage in soccer and volleyball was lacking due .to complications with a new computer system and miscommunication between the SMC sports staff. Saint Mary's lack of a sports information department multiplies the problems and discourages interest in sports reporting. 

Two years ago, Saint Mary's coverage was not very thorough. Today there is a complete staff o news, sports and accent editors that recruit staffs and assign and write stories of their own. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's offices are once again linked by computer. Now SMC reporters are able to send stories over the computer, rather than having to go to the ND campus to write them. Improvements in convenience as well as dedicated SMC editors have increased the campus' coverage markedly. But problems remain. 
Every semester, The Observer holds writer meetings, yet less than ten people showed up at the last session. While there are more ND reporters, not many of them are willing to cover Saint Mary's events. And some SMC reporters prefer to cover only ND events. 
With the SMC editorial staff and capacity for more covhage has exploded, the size of the reporting pool has not. A few people cannot do all the work when coverage is increasing. The human error element will always be present in any organization-we're no different. For mistakes such as Senior Dad's Weekend absence in the paper, apologies. 
We can recruit, but we don't hold guns to students' heads. If anyone wants to write, please bug us. Students, administration, and student government need to keep the Saint Mary's sta informed and be accessible for comment. Space for coverage in The Observer is available. 
With student body president Tina Cararra's commitment to instilling SMC pride, where is student government news and why aren't more SMC students willing to show their pride in our campus' most prominent medium? 
If you are content to recognize shortcomings and not do anything to remedy them, something is wrong. The Observer can guarantee that the opening of the Saint Mary's office and inclusion of Saint Mary's in most stories is the result o persistence and dedication from both schools' staffs. Over two hundred students work around the clock to produce a newspaper that does reflect the events and opinions of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame jointly and fairly. The invitation to help equalize Saint Mary's coverage is there. If you're not part of the solution, then you're in no position to complain. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Production 
Bevin Kovalik Kathy Fong 
Alicia Reale Susan Marx 
Sports Systems Jason Kelly Matt Carbone 
Accent Viewpoint 
Lynn Bauwens Cheryl Moser 
Amy Hardgrove 
Laurie Sessa Graphics 
Ann-Marie Conrado 
Lab Tech Chris Weirup 
Macy Hueckel 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, November 5, 1992
The Observer 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 'Born Free' lion killed 

.JOHANNESBURG, South Africa-One of two remaining lions raised by George Adamson of "Born Free" fame was killed after mauling a ranger to death, wildlife officials said. The 4-year-old lioness, Furaha, and her two 16-month-old cubs were. shot last week under orders of the department of wildlife and national parks in neighboring Botswana. Furaha was ordered killed after attacking a game ranger as he approached the animals, said Gareth Patterson, who introduced Adamson's lions to the wild after the conservationist's death in 1990. 
OF INTEREST 

•Basketball 
coach for fifth and sixth grade boys is needed for Our Lady of Hungary School in South Bend. If interested, please call 289-3272 from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. 

•career 
and volunteer options with nonprofit or­ganizations will be presented tonight from 4 p.m. to 5 


p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). The dis­cussion will include information about making the deci­sion, the jobs available, the rewards and the drawbacks. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Career and Placement Services. 
•Anthropology 
department will host a Visiting Scholar Series: "Health and Civilization," presented by Mark Cohen, Dept. of Anthropology SUNY-Plattsburgh, today at 4:15p.m. in 140 DeBartolo. 

•Becker 
CPA review course will have a presentation on "How to prepare for the CPA Exam," today at 5 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. 

•Daniel 
Burns, Personnel Director for Baker and McKenzie,will lecture on employment opportunities in the law field today from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. Students seeking internships, summer jobs, and full-time employment are encouraged to attend. This program is co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society and the Counseling and Career Development Center. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 207,808,400 -1.24 to 231.24 S&P COMPOSITE -2.83 to 4.19.92 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -9.73 to 3,252.48 

UNCHANGED 581 

GOLD 

-$2.40 to $338.20 oz 
SILVER -$.01 to $3.782 oz 
NATIONAL 

NO alum elected to Supreme Court 
•st. 
Paul, Minn.-Alan Page, a 1967 graduate of Notre Dame, was elected as a justice of the Minnesota Supreme Court Tuesday. Page, a ND football standout who also played defensive end for the Minnesota Vikings and the Chicago Bears, received this year's Rev. Edward Frederick Sorin Award from the ND Alumni Association. Page is also the founder of the Page Education Foundation, which provides academic opportunities for minority children and gives financial aid to college students. 

•Troop 
Notre Dame will have a meeting tonight in room 219 of Rockne for anyone interested in becoming part of Troop Notre Dame. Dance classes and auditions will be discussed. 

•Auditions 
for Shakespeare's, "Taming of the Shrew" are today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in room 220 O'Shaughnessy Hall. This is sponsored by the London Program. 

•The 
Spanish Club will sponsor a lecture about in­vestments in Latin America and business internships given by Paul Kram of the Chicago Board of Trade. It will be tonight at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 

•The 
NO Film Club will be screening Stan Brakage's, "Anticipation of the Night" tonight at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaugnessy Loft. The screening will be followed by a brief discussion led by Marcus Berrettini. Everyone is welcome. 

•Notre 
Dame University Orchestra will perform a Fall Concert tonight at 8 pm in Washington Hall. The concert features faculty member Christine Rutledge performing Karl Stamitz Viola Concerto in D. Works by Rossini, Gabrieli and Haydn will also be featured. The concert is free and open to the public. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1914: Britain, France, and Russia declared war on Turkey, and Britain annexed Cyprus. 

• 
In 1921: Outer Mongolia signed and accord with Russian to protect against a Japanese or Chinese invasion. 

• 
In 1940: President Franklin Roosevelt became the first man in history to be re-elected for a third term, over the Republican candidate Wendell Willkie. 

• 
In 1968: Richard Nixon was elected President, defeating Democratic opponent Hubert Humphrey. 

• 
In 1987: Caspar Weinberger resigned as secretary of defense. 

• 
In 1991 : The U.S. Senate confirmed the nomination of Robert Gates as head of the Central Intelligence Agency. 



--·----~-----------~--------------------­
'( .......... .,, ---.-. 
~ ... ·..'. 

Thursday, November 5, 1992 The Observer page 3 
A primer on what Clinton stands for 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Amer­He wants to raise taxes on He wants a system under ica, meet your new president. Americans with household in­which states would automati­Bill Clinton wants to ban as­comes over $200,000, and cut cally register people to vote sault weapons. He wants to taxes for middle-and lower-in­when they apply for drivers' li­guarantee family leave from come workers. censes. He is willing to spend
1. Stanford/Pangborn/Augusta 

jobs. He will push for a national Beyond Clinton's highly pub-· $8.25 billion on the atom­2. Lewis/Carroll, Keenan examination system to measure licized promises on the econ­smashing superconducting su­
3. Walsh/Alumni/Regina the progress of students and omy and health insurance are per collider projects. He says 

4. 
Sorin/PE/PW 



schools. He wants to guarantee numerous other unequivocal he'll repeal most Bush policies a woman's right to abortion. positions that lay a blueprint for on abortion.
5. 
Morrisey/Holy Cross Executive orders signed by his administration. Clinton wants to put 100,000

6. 
Dillon/Farley 


George Bush and Ronald Rea­He is pledged to sign the Brady new police officers on the7. Flanner/Lyons gan are up for review. Bills they Bill requiring a waiting period streets through a national po­
8. Grace/Howard 

vetoed are being resurrected. for handgun purchases. He lice corps and other means. He 
9. St. Ed's/LeMans/BP 

An activist government is wants to ban offshore oil supports the death penalty. 
stirring after 12 years of Re­drilling where rigs are not al­He wants to limit carbon diox­publican attempts to restrain ready in place. He wants a law ide emissions to 1990 levels by 
10. 
Fisher/Sigfried/Off Campus(ND and St. Mary's) 

11. 
Cavannah/Knott 



Washington's power. to prohibit companies from the year 2000 to reverse global12. Zham/McCandliss/Badin hiring permanent replacements warming. For cars, he wants to 
13. Graduate Student Union 

The economy was issue No. 1, for strikers. phase in a 40-mpg auto fuel ef­
14. Law School 

and the centerpiece of Clinton's Clinton says homosexuals ficiency standard by the turn of campaign was a stimulus should not be excluded from the century. He would set na­program built around a $20-bil­the military. The number of tional water-pollution runoff lion-a-year spending plan for American troops in Europe standards. He is committed to 
15. MBA's 
*OUR STRONGEST FIELD EVER 

highways and bridges to create would be cut to 75,000 to eliminating the production and To Be Held JANUARY 29, 1993 FR0:\1 8:00pm to 3:00am 
jobs. Longer term, he'll seek 100,000 under Clinton, rather use of all ozone-depleting investment tax credits for new than the 150,000 ceiling set by chemicals as soon as possible. LOOK FOR UPCOMING INFORMATION 
plants and equipment, and a President Bush. Clinton says al­Clinton wants to cut defense capital gains tax cut for new lies should shoulder more of the spending by about $100 billion 
.business. burden. by 1997. He intends to scrap the massive spaced-based de­fense system known as Brilliant
The Department of Music Presents 
Pebbles. He wants to build another Sea wolf submarine and 

'IKE No'J:R.E :O.:tnE 
shrink the Navy to 10 carriers instead of 12. 
Newly Remodeled 

UNtVE:R.St'Jy O:R.CKES'J:R..:t 
Clinton would give Head Start 

• j 
enough money to cover all eli­gible 3-year-olds, as well as older pre-schoolers. He would 

:FALL CONCE:R.'J 
,..,~,c-
Notre Dame 

with faculty guest soloist make college aid available to 
Cm(JS'IT9f.J-'l{'lfiL'E/D(j'E, o/IOU. 
all. Every employer would be · Musicof 
required to pay a 1.5 percentGABRIELI ROSSINI STAMITZ HAYDN 
payroll tax for federal training
Apartments 
and education programs. 

Thursday, November 5, 1992 
He will push the trade ~ agreement with Mexico but
8:15p.m. 
. . 
wants to negotiate additional
Now available for the 
safeguards for U.S. workers and industries. He would toughen sanctions against Haiti, 
2nd semester and 
make favorable trade terms for China dependent on respect for human rights and set up Radio
'93 ~ '94 school year 
Free Asia. He will restore U.S. money cut off by Bush to the 
U.N. population-control

program. Clocktower Square 
Clinton will seek the line-item veto. He will increase spending
51400 31 North
and scheduled showings 
for AIDS research. He would5outh Bend, IN 46637 
put a two-year cap on welfare

Mention This Ad and Receive I0% off 
benefits.

Not good for Valentine's Day 

(219)277 .. I29I ...~et
0 ~ ~t~ 
1i~ ~~~ 
~ 

Russian legislature ratifies START 
Hardliners protest that approval a gift to Clinton 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russia's legislature on Wednesday rati­fied the Strategic Arms Reduc­tion Treaty with the United States despite protests by hard­liners that approval repre­sented an unwarranted gift to President-elect Bill Clinton. 
Lawmakers voted 157-1, with 26 abstentions, to ratify the START treaty, which would cut by about one-third the U.S. and 
" former Soviet arsenals of long­range missiles and bombers over the next seven years. The U.S. Senate adjourned in October without passing the treaty, which was signed in July 1991 by President Bush and former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Ukraine, Belarus and Kaza­khstan still have strategic nu­clear weapons from the Soviet arsenal, and they must also ratify the treaty before it can come into effect. Kazakhstan has ratified the treaty. "It is the first treaty which will imply real cuts and it has a 
great importance not only for Russia and the U.S.A., but for the whole world," said Deputy Russian Defense Minister Boris Gromov. 
Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said "we see this as a very important pesitive development towards bringing the treaty into force." 
He said the U.S. was urging Ukraine and Belarus to com­plete their own ratification of START. "The governments of both countries have assured us that they strongly support rati­fication," he said. 
The Supreme Soviet law­makers debated the issue heat­edly for more than an hour. 
"Some people want to present it on a silver platter to the U.S. president-elect," said Vitaly Sevastyanov, a former cosmonaut and a member of the hard-liners' faction in the legislature. 
"We shouldn't make presents. We must make normal, reasonable decisions. I am for this treaty, but we should take a reasonable attitude," Sev­astyanov said. 

He said Russia did not have enough money to solve the many technical problems con­nected to the dismantling of the missiles. 
Legislator Nikolai Pavlov, a leader of the opposition Na­tional Salvation Front that was disbanded by President Boris last week, said the treaty is based on a system of counting warheads that is unfavorable for Russia. 
"As a result, the U.S.A. suc­ceeded in getting privileges in counting their warheads. We will have to eliminate our best missiles, while the U.S.A. will be able to keep their best weapons," Pavlov said. 
Reformers stressed Russia's image as a reliable partner would be damaged if the legis­lature failed to ratify the treaty. 


The Observer/ Thomas Zipprich 

The latest tunes 
Deciding if he should spend his money, sophomore Tom War looks at the new selection of compact discs at the N D bookstore. 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1992 
Ore. rejects gay stigmatizing; Clinton 
continued from page 1
Colo. blocks their protection 

(AP) Oregon voters rejected an 55 percent of the vote. The Democrats would "apply the attempt to stigmatize homo­,amendment to the state consti­brakes to Japan's selling prod­sexuals, but gay rights groups tution bars state and local gov­ucts cheaply." were shocked Wednesday after ernments from enacting gay­Swedish Prime Minister Carl Colorado voters unexpectedly rights legislation and rescinds Bildt expressed hope that Clin­banned laws to protect gays laws already passed in Denver, ton would "resist the protec­from discrimination. Aspen and Boulder. tionist winds." 
Two local votes in Tuesday's About 300 gays who had been In the Mideast and Africa, elections also gave conflicting expecting to hold a victory Arabs and Israelis said they signals on public feelings about party late Tuesday marched could work with Clinton. extending protections to homo­instead to a hotel in downtown "Syria and the Arabs are sexuals as a minority group. Denver, chanting "No more committed to the peace process, Voters in Tampla, Fla., over­hate!" A gay group in California and they expect President turned a city ordinance protect­urged a tourism boycott of Clinton to be an honest broker ing homosexuals, while voters Colorado. between the Arabs and Israel, in Portland, Maine, turned back Gov. Roy Romer, an opponent taking no one side against the a similar repeal effort. of the measure, met with angry other," said Syria's foreign 
All four measures were put on gay leaders at a church minister, Farouk al-Sharaa. the ballot by petition and all Wednesday and promised to Peace negotiations "will con­received more than 40 percent challenge the measure in court. tinue, and I'm convinced that of the vote. Opponents of gay­"It is not you who are gay and also the new administration will rights legislation argued that lesbian who have lost the fight. show deep and serious interest gays should not receive special It is all of Colorado," he said in the talks," said Israeli For­treatment and warned about earlier. eign Minister Shimon Peres. condoning homosexuality and Harlow said the measure vio­Libyan leader Moammar the dangers of gays "recruiting" lates the equal protection Gadhafi, a Bush enemy, said a young people. clause of the U.S. Constitution. Democratic administration was 
' \ I

-'BIJ(-World reaction to the 
s;:l Clinton presidency 
CHINAEUROPE 
RUSSIA Clinton's victory Clinton is expected to cut the could complicate number of U.S. troops in Germany to Even if Clinton already tottering 

75,000. The cuts will affect already holds back on direct relations.
rising unemployment there. aid, he could help by Clinton has called If Clinton also demands that maintaining less the Chinese leaders Germany and other host countries pay visible support, such "tyrants," and he for U.S. troop presence. the tensions as influencing may threaten
coUld worsen. deferrals of $75-80 billion in Soviet debt 
high-pressure tactics repayments. 
in such areas as human rights. 
' 

MEXICO fii·.·. Mexicans are~' < · MIDDLE EAST JAPAN
confident of go · )ong-term Clinton's support for Tokyo fears and favors aties with a Dem · ratic Israel is raising Clinton administration. 

administration. 

questions in the Arab The Japanese believe that Now, however, rat~ication world. The test may the U.S. economy is in of the North American Free come over $10 billion deep decline and hope Trade Agreement is at stake. 
In U.S. loan Clinton will emulate their Clinton has said he guarantees to resettle country's use olsupports the agreement, but Soviet Jews, which government spending towants to ensure that U.S. 
Bush linked to a halt stimulale it.
jobs aren't lost. 

in building Jewish A strong U.S. economy settlements. is critical lor Japan. 
Persian Gulf War, said: "Our Jeszenszky of Hungary praised
"It's discouraging," said Ruth "The majority is simply not "a natural and historic ally" of 
wounds have finally healed." Bush as "an active player in the
Harlow, a lawyer with the allowed to say, 'We dislike this the Arabs. 

An Iranian radio report fall of communism." 
Lesbian and Gay Rights Project group,' and to take away their South African political analyst 
monitored in London said thou­In Mexico., President Carlos
at the national offices of the protections," she said. Sampie Terreblanche said Clin­
sands gathered outside the U.S. Salinas de Gortari thanked the
American Civil Liberties Union. Will Perkins, who founded ton was likely to "have little pa­
Embassy in Tehran with defeated incumbent for "the
"But I think that the problem Colorado for Family Values, the tience" with any government 
banners proclaiming "Death to important successes" he
with these initiative campaigns group that got the amendment attempts to slow the transition 
America" to mark "a national achieved, notably the North
is that the voters get a lot of on the ballot, said the measure from apartheid. 

day against global arrogance." American Free Trade Agree­
misinformation and they're does not discriminate against In Baghdad, groups of Iraqi 
But Bush was not forgotten. ment.
whipped into a kind of frenzy of homosexuals. men celebrated Bush's defeat 
"This is a sad day for Kuwait." "We shouldn't just let George
fear of gay people and les­"Our objectives have never by dancing in the streets and 
said journalist Khaled Thiab. Bush sink into history, he's been 
bians." been to discriminate. Our posi­chanting "Bush out, but Sad­
"We owed this man the return a good friend to this country
Pre-election polls had pre­tion is that sexual orientation is dam lives forever." 

of our country and our and of the alliance," said British 
dicted the Colorado proposal not an acceptable criteria for Zaurier Halim, a soldier in the 
democracy." Foreign Secretary Douglas
would lose, but it passed with special rights," he said. Iraqi army that U.S.-led troops 
Foreign Minister Geza Hurd.
forced from Kuwait in the 
Architecture 
continued from page 1 
"We decided to do everything at the same scale so we could make comparisons among all the buildings," Smith said. "Robert's project has really been inspiring to the students. It has been a goal for all the other working because he has always been a little bit ahead as far as actual construction goes." 
The symposium begins at 
10:30 a.m., Friday with an in­troduction by Smith followed by several different speakers throughout the afternoon. The symposium concludes at 3 p.m. Saturday afternoon. 
The exhibits will be on display in the architecture building until spring. Afterwards, the buildings are scheduled to go on a nationwide tour of exhibitions and symposiums. 
"We hope to make the build­ings available to as many ex­hibits as possible since this is such an uncommon area and time for study," Smith said. "Both the Baltimore Art Mu­seum and the Metropolitan Mu­seum of Art have expressed interest in displaying our stu­dents' works." 
~, .b ~ A..,. 6~~v)~ $1 0 0 
"" 
'~..._<11 ,\o ~"' 
""'~ o• 
,~'!~~Challenge 
c.f ~~ 
Eat 5 lib. burgers in 2 hours and win $100. Call In advance for details. 
1 mlie east of campus 
Polls 
continued from page 1 
Leege. But one aspect of polling he questions is the voter sam­ple of each poll. 
"There's a problem when polls have different definitions of a 'likely voter'," he said. Some polls may consider any­one registered a likely voter. Some take those who voted in the past election, while others like to poll only those who have voted in the last three elections, Leege explained. 

He said, "When we look at a poll we never know exactly who they are considering the 'likely voter'." He said he was amazed at how accurate polls were the weekend prior to election day. 
HAPPY 21n_B-DAY! LUPI~ES! 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ,l.. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13
CHRISTMAS A 


8AM-6PM
ARTS& 

SATURDAY, 
CRAFTS NOVEMBER 14 ~ 8AM-7PM
FAIR ''''' 
a(#~Oe>O 
~ T T T T T T
LaFortune Student Stop by and

Y~~YYYT
Center: get your I Lower Lounge, 

~~~ttf-111 Christmas 
Main Lounge, 

,,..,..,..,,..,", shopping I 
& Ballroom done early! 

JJJJJJJ!}~~~~~\\~~ 
tti1/iliiiiiii~ 

Sponsoru by tit~ LllFortun~ lnformlllion Dale. For nwr~ lnforltllllion caii1JU111 


Sunday's Rre For Students 
.Morr!!-?~ 
Downtown South Bend 
Free Food 8p.m.-10p.m. Specials Bp .m.-12 
Come with your friends to watch Sunday night football, enjoy FREE food, great specials and Rwesome Halftime Rafflesllllll 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACUL TV & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understand· ing of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
RETREAT 

DATES: December 4-6, 1992 
FORMS 

AVAILABLE: November 2-6 
SIGN UP 

DEADLINE: November 6 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 239-7800 

0MPUS 

COST: $25.00 
MINISTRY 

' • I --­
page 5 

Thursday, November 5, 1992 The Observer 

Mediators try to revive Angolan talks 
LUANDA, Angola (AP) -government. U.N. monitors de­were being established between Foreign diplomats struggled clared the vote generally free the government and Savimbi to Wednesday to revive political and fair. continue talks on a second talks after fighting between The rebels trailed in the bal­round of presidential elections government forces and rebels loting behind the ruling Popular that were interrupted when the left up to 1,000 people dead. · Movement for the Liberation of fighting broke out last 
Government radio said Angola, a former Marxist party. weekend. clashes continued Wednesday "There is urgency in putting Government forces crushed in the port city of Lobito and an end to the military conflict. the outnumbered rebels in Lu­the town of Caxito, 31 miles This involves direct dialogue anda, and several top rebel east of Luanda. between the government and leaders killed, wounded or ef­
The fighting has increased the direction of UNIT A," said fectively held prisoner by gov­fears that Angola's civil war will Antonio Monteiro, the chief ernment forces. The rebels still resume, and several nations, Portuguese representative of a control large parts of the coun­particularly Sweden and Portu­three-nation team that moni­try, however. gal, took advantage of the calm tors last year's accords to end In Rome, Pope John Paul II Tuesday and Wednesday to Angola's 16-year civil war. urged both sides to "put down evacuate their nationals. Lu­UNITA is the acronym for the their arms and return to dia­anda's airport was open, but rebel group, the National Union logue and the force of reason." mainly for outgoing flights. for the Total Independence of Angola is about 50 percent 
There was no evacuation of Angola. Roman Catholic. Americans, who are concen­The United States, which Angola's civil war began on trated near Cabinda, 186 miles backed the rebels during the the eve of its independence north of Luanda, near offshore civil war, and Russia, which from Portugal in 1975. The oil facilities. supported the government, are United States and South Africa 
Tension has grown since also represented on the moni­backed the rebels, while Cuba UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi toring team. and the Soviet Union supported claimed elections held in late Monteiro, speaking on Por­the government. At least September were rigged by the tugal's TSF radio, said contacts 350,000 died. 
Iranian authorities arrest American Governing coalition splits; travel agent on various spy charges Irish election likely to be soon 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) -The The government split
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -His arrest was announced in a Mayar's arrest appeared 
statement by the Ministry of partly to be an attempt by the junior party in Ireland's coali­stemmed partly from a dispute
Iranian authorities said 
government to demonstrate tion government resigned its between Prime Minister AlbertWednesday they arrested an Information, the news reports two Cabinet seats on Wednes­Reynolds, the leader of the Fi­American businessman and said. It did not say when Mayar that Iran's Islamic revolution 
accused him of spying. was arrested, but the an­remains capable of standing up day, paving the way for a vote anna Fail party, and O'Malley. of no confidence in the gov­Reynolds had accused
The official Islamic Republic nouncement came on the 13th to the United States. 
ernment on Thursday and na­O'Malley of "reckless, irre­
News Agency said Milton Ma­anniversary of the takeover of Since revolutionary leader tional elections later this sponsible and dishonest" tes­yar, 58, was providing vital the U.S. Embassy in Tehran by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini 
month. timony in a judicial inquiry into 
business information from Iran Iranian militants. died in June 1989, his succes­Desmond O'Malley, leader of allegations of government fa­
to several international com­sors have been struggling to 
the Progressive Democratic voritism in supporting the Irishpanies. It said he also had links Tehran radio said thousands keep the revolution alive, but Party, resigned as minister for beef industry. O'Malley had
with foreign intelligence agents. of Iranians gathered in front of infighting among various fac­Sources in Tehran said Mayar the building for a rally com­tions has undermined their ef­industry and commerce, and demanded that Reynolds with­party colleague Bobby Molloy draw the accusation. 
owned a travel agency in Iran memorating the takeover, dur­forts. 
stepped down as energy minis­and was trying to promote ing which Iranian militants held 
tourism in the country. They 52 Americans hostage for 444 There was no official Iranian ter. O'Malley's testimony involved 
spoke on condition of days. reaction to Bill Clinton's victory Molloy said it was time to Reynolds' role in authorizing 
anonymity. Protesters chanted "Death to in the U.S. presidential election, choose new leadership that export credits for Goodman would have a public mandate. International, a major beefNeither the sources nor the America!" and carried placards and the news came too late to 
exporter that had large

Iranian news reports gave a with anti-American slogans, the appear in Wednesday's news­A no-confidence motion was contracts with Iraq. 
hometown for Mayar. Iranian news agency said. papers. 
scheduled for a vote on Thurs­

day in the Dail, the Irish par­A referendum on Ireland's liament. Government officials abortion law had been sched­have indicated that if they lose, uled for Dec. 3. The govern­an election would be held on ment has proposed three Nov. 26 and they would re­amendments to the Irish con­schedule an abortion referen­stitution that address the rights dum to fall on the same day. of women to leave Ireland for 
With unemployment exceed­an abortion, obtain information ing 20 percent, opposition par­about abortion in other coun­ties are likely to focus on eco­tries and have an abortion nomic issues in the short cam­when a woman's life is in dan­paign. ger. 
r------­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1992 
Scandal the reason for many

r r 
of .Congress' losing incumbents 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The tidal wave of anti-incumbency never materialized but many of the two dozen House members and three senators swept out of office were dogged by personal scandals or stigmatized by voter anger over official perquisites. 
"I could not sustain the tremendous amount of publicity that went against me," said Rep. Albert Bustamante, D­Tex., after his eight-year tenure in Congress was ended on Tuesday. 
Never mind the garbled syntax. The message was still clear. 
Bustamante was defeated by Republican Henry Bonilla, a 38­year-old television producer who hammered away at the San Antonio incumbent's al­leged ethical shortcomings and his 30 bad checks at the House bank. 
A federal grand jury, yet to hand up an indictment, has been investigating Bustamante for three years. 
"What (voters) saw on the other side was a guy talking about positive issues," Bonilla said. 
Redistricting played a key role in removing others from office, including former professional basketball player, Rep. Tom McMillen, D-Md. 
Others who lost in races that pitted them against fellow in­cumbents in redrawn districts were Reps. Ron Marlenee, R­Mont.; David Nagle, D-Iowa; Jerry Huckaby, D-La.; and Clyde Holloway, R-La., 
But about 93 percent of the 349 incumbents seeking re­election won -nearly equaling the 95 percent or better success rate incumbents generally enjoy. 
Prominent casualties in House races included Rep. Thomas Downey, D-N.Y., a member of the post-Watergate class of 1974 but writer of 151 overdrafts at the House bank; Rep. Nicholas Mavroules, D­Mass., indicted on racketeering and other charges in August; and Rep. Mary Rose Oakar, D­Ohio, tainted by 213 bad checks 

risky business at 21! Happy Birthday! 
Love, 
Natasha and 
Annmarie 
Just Because You Don't Pray 8 Hours A Day Doesn't Mean You Can't BecomeA Nun. 
SISTF.RS OP ST. BENI!DICT 
rnan•••,l••••••
•
Find DUt what btint a nun rtaUy mtans. Cal/ Sisttr &st Mary Rtxintat 812-367-1411 
and moved into an unfamiliar 
suburban district outside her 
Cleveland base. 
There will be at least 110 new faces in the 435-member body come January. But Democrats retained their hold, apparently losing only nine seats from their current 268. 
In Arizona, Republican Rep. Jay Rhodes was hurt by the House banking scandal but also seemed to suffer from his hardline stand against abor­tion. 
Rhodes lost to Democrat Sam Coppersmith in a heavily Re­publican district. Coppersmith distributed a flier in the cam­paign's final days that showed a woman crying beneath the caption, "Congressman Rhodes wants to make abortion illegal -even if a woman is a victim of incest or rape. Congressman Jay Rpodes wants to make her a criminal." 
Losses for Senate incumbents were few and far between, and there was no evidence of a pattern. 
In California, Democrat Di­anne Feinstein, the former mayor of San Francisco, ousted Republican Sen. John Seymour. But Seymour, in office less than two years, was a less familiar public official than Feinstein, a narrow loser to Republican Pete Wilson in the 1990 gubernatorial race. 
The only losing Democratic incumbent was Sen. Terry San­ford of North Carolina, whose campaign for a second term was temporarily sidelined in October when he underwent heart surgery. He lost to Demo­crat-turned Republican Lauch Faircloth. 
The ability of his opponent to get a laugh helped unseat the other Republican veteran to fall, Sen. Robert Kasten Jr. of Wisconsin. 
He was defeated by state Sen. Russell Feingold, who crisscrossed the state in a van and aired lighthearted ads that featured people-on-the-street interviews and an upbeat re­sponse to attacks he called un­fair and untrue. 
No more 

Arkansas smiling on Election Day 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­This state has long been the butt of jokes, a place President Bush said was so polluted and poor that it was "the lowest of the low" in America. But on Wednesday, it was Arkansas that was smiling. 
"In a way, we got the last laugh," said George Wright, one of Bill Clinton's boyhood friends. "We were called the lowest but we produced the president of the United States. What do you think about us now?" 
Clinton's election, some say, not only will help dispel the car­icatures of Arkansas as a real­life Dogpatch with slack-jawed hillbillies and chicken pluckers, but will give people here reason to be proud of their state. 
"Most folks in Arkansas feel vindicated," said John Brum­mett, a columnist for the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. "The president bashed us. Ross Perot bashed us. The man they harmed with the bashing was overwhelmingly elected.... People here think this was their victory." 
Clinton's win, he added, also offers Little Hock a chance to redeem itself from one of the ugliest moments in its history ­the 1957 crisis in which then­Gov. Orval Faubus blocked the doors of Central High School to prevent nine black students from integrating it. 
"The last time the eyes of the world were on Little Rock were in '57 ... which gave us an infe­riority complex," Brummett said. "People see this as a cleansing, a redemption. It's going to be real good for the psyche of the state." 

That's not even necessary, said John Robert Starr, another columnist at the Democrat­Gazette. 
"I don't detect Arkansas' spirit needs much lifting," he said. "I don't think the attacks have hurt at all." 
But not everyone is willing to forgive Bush's depictions of Arkansas during the campaign as a state with so much poverty and so many problems that it seemed like a Third World na­tion. 
"For the people of Arkansas, it will be a long time before they forget what was said," said La Nelle Staggs, an assistant director of medical records at a Texarkana Hospital. "I think it's just awful." 
"George Bush was my presi­dent," said George Frazier, county chairman in Hempstead County, which includes Hope, Clinton's hometown. "I thought that meant president of all the states.... We're a proud people. We can fuss among ourselves but we don't like outsiders criticizing us." 
Truth is, though, this was far from the first swipe taken at Arkansas. 

FOUND 

IDENTIFIED AS DON REESE 
For more information and a close up look at him, purchase your tickets to see him perform at Washington Hall on November 6th at 8:00 p.m. 
General Admission Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk for only $3. 
~-----------------------------------­L---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-

Thursday, November 5, 1992 
The 1992 elections draw record voters 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pat yourself on the back America. The 1992 elections drew more than 100 million people -an all-time record -to the polls to exercise their right to vote. 
That represented the highest percentage of eligible voters to cast ballots in two decades. 
Several states set records ei­ther in total numbers voting or percentage of eligible voters participating. Even the District of Columbia -long the symbol of voter apathy with tradition­ally low turnout -set a record. 
But to do it, voters had to brave snow in Minnesota and Nebraska, long lines every­where and inconveniences like a broken voting machine in In­diana and ballot shortages in California and Florida. 
"It was a resounding victory for ... citizenship," District of Columbia Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly said as voters in her city turned out in droves to oppose a death penalty referendum imposed by Congress. 
But experts cautioned that the break in an otherwise three­decade downward spiral of voter participation may be shortlived and may not have much to do with President-elect Clinton's landslide win either. 
Democratic turnout posted only minuscule gains and Re­publican turnout was sharply down, making the 19 percent independent vote for Ross Perot the single biggest gain, explained Curtis Gans, a voter turnout expert who founded the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. 
About 55 percent of eligible Americans voted this time around, up 5 percentage points from the all-time low 50.2 per­cent mark set in 1988, Gans said. This year's was the high­est percentage turnout since 
55.4 percent cast ballots in 1972, he said. 
In terms of raw numbers, an estimated 104 million Ameri­cans voted Tuesday, eclipsing the previous high of 92.6 mil­lion set in 1984, he said. 


The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,thatwe will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After~Game Parties! 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 2.3 & Ironwood/277-7744 US .31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1 024 115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) 
Open 8 a.m. on home game days! 

*All Twkey Based 


House Republicans pay for Bush's weak showing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sad­dled by President Bush's poor performance, especially in Western states, Republicans emerged from the elections with only marginal gains in the House. A top GOP official called it "a missed historic opportunity." 
Democrats will continue their domination of the chamber, a streak that extends back to 1954. And most incumbents who sought re-election ­some 93 percent -will be back as well, defying predictions of a political bloodletting. 
But the new House that is sworn in Jan. 5 will have a new look. Because of record retirements and large numbers of defeats in primary elections, there will be at least 110 new faces in the crowd, the highest number in more than four decades. 
More will be black, Hispanic and female than ever before. 
"It's going to be more repre­sentative of the country," said Speaker Thomas Foley, D­Wash. "The numbers of His­panics, African-Americans and women have not reflected their numbers in society. This is a healthy result." 
Women won 4 7 seats, a quantum jump from their cur­rent strength of 28. Blacks captured 38 districts, also a dramatic increase from the current level of 25. And Hispanics increased their representation from 11 to 17. Minority success was made possible by redistricting under the Voting Rights Act, which designed new districts specifically to elect minority lawmakers. 
Judging by the tone of the fall campaign, the new House will feel a double mandate: To re­vive the U.S. economy, proba­bly along the lines suggested by Democratic presidential victor Bill Clinton, and to reform the House itself. 
For Republicans, the out­come was disappointing. In a year that saw the House plagued by scandals in its in­ternal bank and post office, vigorous recruiting of GOP candidates and a favorable re­drawing of congressional dis­trict lines, many had hoped for a pickup of several dozen seats. 
But as the final numbers shaped up Wednesday, it ap­peared Republicans had picked up about nine seats, paring the Democratic majority to 259-175, with one independent, Bernard Sanders of Vermont. The old margin had been 268-166. 
MCAT 
ON NOVEMBER 5TH AT 6:30 TO 10:00 PM THERE WILL BE A MOCK MCAT GIVEN IN THE NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ROOM 127. TO SIGN-UP FOR THIS TEST, CALL FR. WALTER AT x.6675 OR VISIT THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. THIS TEST WILL BE ANALYZED BY COMPUTER AND THE RESULTS MAY BE PICKED UP IN THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE TWO WEEKS AFTER THE TEST. 
-------------------~ 
Religious right vows 'hand-to­hand combat' 
(AP) Disappointed by Bill Clinton's win at the top of the ticket, conservative Christians promised Wednesday to wage "hand-to-hand combat" at the grass-roots level for their pro­family, anti-abortion and anti­gay agenda. 
"There's some good news out there for conservatives and pro-family citizens, but it's oc­curring in the midst of a fu­neral parlor with the defeat of George Bush," said Ralph Reed, head of the Virginia-based Christian Coalition. 
There were other setbacks to the religious right, which showed its political strength at August's Republican National Convention. 
Several favored congressional candidates were defeated, and the movement's highest-profile ballot measure -an Oregon proposal to label homosexuality "abnormal and perverse" ­was voted down 57 percent to 43 percent. 
With Clinton in office, "it's going to be hand-to-hand com­bat for at least four yeai's," Reed said. "We're going to be dealing with a radically pro­abortion, high-tax administra­tion for the first time ever." 
Large voter turnout hurt the religious right, said Skipp Por­teous, co-author of a book called "Challenging the Chris­tian Right." 
"Mainstream voters just said no to the religious right," Por­teous said. "They don't repre­sent the will of the American people, and I think this election proves it." 
But Reed said Americans were voting their pocketbook, not their conscience. In exit polls, voters overwhelmingly cited economic concerns in choosing Clinton over Bush. 
Consenting Aduka R 
5:15, 7:30, 10:00 
Candyman R 
5:00,7:00,9:30 The Last of the Mohicans R 4:45. 7:15,9:45 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, November 5, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...............•...... David Kinney Advertising Manager ••...... Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ...•.•.•..••...... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ...•.•....... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor •••......... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ..•.•••••••...Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .................•.•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ...............••....... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Individuals are the real people 
Dear Editor: was, "Oh, he just does it." point, Patrick?" My point is, Well, for me, this was the God created one race, the hu­
Today, I engaged in a conver­straw that broke the camel's man race, but humankind sation with a friend about the back. I can no longer sit seems to have created many Catholic Church and as our dis­quietly, only to ignore the races. cussion continued, he revealed ignorance of others. For these As a result, we have created to me that several people on people who believe I take the stereotypes for these races campus did not believe I was body of Christ and the blood of which leads to ignorance. Do Catholic simply because "... Christ just to do it, you're not be ignorant, Notre Dame. blacks are not Catholic." wrong. My parents are Learn about people as 
In reply, I stated the fact that I Catholic, I am Catholic, and I individuals, not as a race. After partake in Holy Communion understand the meaning behind all, "WE are NO." and inquired how would it be being Catholic; this is why I re­possible for me to do this if I ceive Holy Communion. Patrick Mixon were not Catholic. The answer So, many of you right now Flanner Hall these people gave my friend must be thinking, "What's your Oct. 29, 1992 
Only God, not bishops, can judge 
Dear Editor: excommunication of pro-choice otry, anti-Christian letter. The Catholics would be on of the fact that its author is a Third 
I would like to respond to a largest most disgraceful acts of Order Franciscan is absolutely letter (The Observer, Oct. 30, bigotry of all time. contemptible. 1992) in which Joseph Vallely Unlike Vallely, these bishops questioned the "strange si­obviously realize that it is God's The Catholic Church and these lence" maintained by bishops place to judge and no one else's. "silent" bishops are not bigots, (i.e.-why bishops don't ex­God does not hate and God is nor is God. Mr. Vallely, you and communicate pro-choice not a bigot. your kind are finished. Catholics). 
I believe that the reason for I hope that all Catholics were Seth Grieshaber this "silence" is that the bishops as offended as I by this pro­Zahm Hall realize that a mass (or any) hate, pro-intolerance, pro-big-Oct. 30, 1992 

/A.KJti/?ER. ;.,au7}{fS 
IRAN -ni/NG tuiU. 
PlAYaJTNIJI,(J TH/17
IM 
TH/5 !?ARN PAPER. TRAIL­
lfiTORY JlET 57l3AM5 Me, MAKeS ll1e 111/WT TO 60 5/3Yfi-8AUISTIC ON THIS 
ONe... o 
WHY fJO P!50PU3/AJR.IT!3 5e­c:R&75 rx:wN?I CAN'TDO 
THAT/ NOI1/ !3V!K'ION£ tfJ,tWT5 7D KNCW a/H£1?£ I 11/AS ON 7H& tOOP THING.' CJ 
0 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
!A/&, 7HAT'S ONB STORY IU 8& lAKING 7D Q THI3GRAV!3. 0 OPEN COUI<T. 
'I'd rather have my country die for me.' 
Grace Slick 

When truth is found to be a lie, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
------------~---------­
Viewpoint

Thursday, November 5, 1992 page 9 
Jewish Slave Law must be abolished before it destroys 
The American Civil War (1861-1865) was fought to try to rid Jewish Slave Law from American soil. When' Abraham Lincoln was assassinated his dream of a new Bank of the United States that would issue debt free and tax free money for the American people also died. 
The following year Section 4 of the 14th Amendment (which says, "the public debt ...shall not be questioned") was pushed through Congress by the Jews to ensure that debt/tax slavery, which the Jews call "meliorated slavery" would remain un­touchable, constitutional and legal in America, thereby completely and totally destroy­ing Abraham Lincoln's dream of freeing the American people from Jewish Slave Law. 
In 1897, under the leadership of Theodore Herzl. the Jews held the First International Zionist Conference in Russia. 
In 1905, a secret meeting headed by prominent Jewish financiers was held at Jekyll Island at which time the plans were put into place for the creation of the Federal Reserve Banking System. 
By 1913, with sufficient politi­cal backing in the Congress to establish our existing debt/tax slavery money system, the Jews successfully persuaded Congress to pass the Federal Reserve Act, which triggered WWI and what has followed. 
The German Third Reich emerged out of the widespread European opposition to the growth of global Zionism and to the ever expanding debt/tax slavery money system instituted by the Jews. 
Following WWII, Jewish Zionism successfully created the State of Israel, the IMF/World Bank debt/tax slav­ery money system, and the United Nations, none of which would have been possible with­out the debt/tax slavery finan­cial power of the American Federal Reserve Banking Sys­tem. 
Today, the unholy Rus­sian!EEC/American/Israeli al­liance is in firm control of the global debt/tax slavery money system. With a 4 trillion dollar federal debt that is growing at the rate of billions of dollars per week, the American people are firmly trapped in the 
L. Clifford Cheney 
Guest Columnist 
"meliorated" debt/tax slavery money system which the American Civil War failed to abolish from American soil. 
The solution to America's debt/tax slavery problem is simple: cancel the federal debt, abolish the IRS and the Fed, require all banks to operate on 100 percent reserves, create a new Bank of the United States to issue American money debt free and tax free for the people, and abolish the monopoly of capital left, right and center. 
Continuing to tax, tax, tax and tax some more, to "reduce the federal deficit" unjustly feeds massive sums of wealth to the bankers and their corporate puppets and can only bring to­tal destruction to the American Economy and to the American people. 
Unless the American people are willing to face the truth about Jewish Slave Law honestly and openly, our exist­ing debt/tax slavery money system will continue to destroy America and the American people. 

If our children and grand­children have any hope what­soever of becoming free of debt/tax slavery, Jewish Slave Law, including our "meliorated" debt/tax slavery money system, which was designed and put into place by the Jews, must be abolished before it is too late. 
In 1789, 203 years ago, at the American Constitutional Con­vention, Benjamin Franklin said, "If the Jews are not ex­cluded, within 200 years ... they will imperil our institu­tions...Their ideas are not those of America even when they have lived among us for ten generations ... The Jews are a danger to this land ... They should be excluded from the Constitution." 
There is nothing racial about Jewish Slave Law. Jewish Slave Law is straight out of the Bible and is rooted in the Law of Moses (which, according to Luke 16:16, was supposedly abolished by Jesus}. 
The heart and soul of "meliorated" Jewish Slave Law is Deuteronomy 15:6, which says, "You will lend money to many nations, but you will not have to borrow from any; you will have control over many nations, but no nation will control you." Ephesians 6:5 says, "Slaves, obey your human masters with fear and trembling" ... and most Americans pay their taxes and submit to "meliorated" Jewish Debt/Tax Slave Law without so much as a whimper. 
Yet, according to Galatians 5:1, Jesus tells us, "do not allow yourselves to be slaves again." 
Abraham Lincoln stood on the "moral light around us" in his struggle against Jewish Slave Law. 
If the American people do not have the courage of "Honest Abe" to face the truth about Jewish Slave Law before Jewish Slave Law completely destroys America and the American people, then the American people have nobody but them­selves to blame for allowing Jewish Debt/Tax Slave Law to continue enslaving themselves, their children, their grandchil­dren ...and the world ... to debt/tax slavery. 
L. Clifford Cheney is a resi· dent ofHobbs, New Mexico. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sex al-so has consequences • 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Tony Anderson's editorial. which was entitled "Reader says enjoy life, have sex without guilt" (The Observer, Nov. 3, 1992). 
It is Mr. Anderson's attitude toward sex, the attitude that many people possess, that has led not only toward an increase in sexually transmitted diseases, but an increase in teenage pregnancy as well. 
While it is true that marriage should be based on mutual and deep respect, sex is also a part of marriage. without sex, a married couple could not re­produce. 
To claim that sex is an event solely for pleasure is absurd. This is not to say that sex should not be pleasurable, but it should be so in the action of procreation. 
In addition, I was amazed to see that Mr. Anderson sees sexual promiscuity as simply "a way to quicken the diversifica­tion of the gene pool." He also states that humans are the only animals with the ability to rea­son. Why, then, does he not reason that promiscuity in hu­mans leads to the spread of diseases such as AIDS which has reached epidemic propor­tions? 
Not to mention that promiscuity among teenagers and young adults leads to teenage pregnancy which leads to the parents losing their chances for education because they have to support the child, or, in other cases, abortion . 
To attack Du Lac is ridiculous. Since Notre Dame is a Catholic institution, it is only logical that the rules laid down would be based on Catholic doctrine. It would be illogical for a Catholic institution to support rules that defied Catholic doctrine. It is for that reason that Du Lac forbids intercourse between unmarried students. 
To teach children that sex be­tween two unmarried people is wrong is a valuable lesson, especially in today's society. If one is not going to follow Catholic doctrine and save sex for the marriage bed, then it is a good idea to do so simply to avoid the many risks that go along with promiscuity. While it is true that people have a "natural desire to propagate the species," this desire must be controlled. 
I find it disheartening that Mr. Anderson calls for "the true expression of each person's desires" through having sex "just for the sake of having sex." This is the attitude that has led to the spread of AIDS and unwanted pregnancies. While repression may lead to guilt, Getting somebody preg­nant or giving them some dis­ease would probably make a person feel a lot more guilty. 
Chris Klemawesch Flanner Hall 
Nov. 3, 1992. 
and deeper meaning as well 


are things going, et cetera. The physical act expresses another reality that I may not always be able to get across in words. We'd all get sick of each other if we had to say everything we felt. When I hold a girl's hand, it expresses the reality of my feelings for her--that I'm glad she's here with me. I can still shake your hand if I'm not glad to see you, but it means noth­ing. 
I can hold a girl's hand, or hook up or whatever, but if I don't like this person and I'm just doing it to vent hormones, then it means nothing. I'm denying the inner reality that says, "No, I really don't like this person." This inner reality; this meaning, exists in all of us. I think this inner reality might be that "guilt" you mentioned--but this is not the result of forced education. It is inside you and it is inside all of us. We can suppress it, but we cannot deny it. Our society should try listening to it more often. 
Let's take it to the sexual level now. If you commit the physical act of having sex--the absolute closest, most intimate, most expressive act two humans can commit--while not feeling that this is the person you want to be the closest, most intimate, most expressive with forever (Yes, forever. You cannot feel that way for five minutes and then put your pants back on and have it go away), then the human side of sex is lost, and you reduce the act to a primal, animal act. The beauty of being human is that the physical act of sex, when endowed with meaning, can be so much than just physical. 
Now, call me an over-idealist, call me a prude, whatever. I'm definitely not speaking from experience here. But doesn't it make sense--isn't it more hu­man--to wait to have sex until it has meaning? I don't know the answer, but I'm going to wait to find out. 
Matt Umhofer cavanaugh Hall 
Nov. 3,1992 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to Tony Anderson's letter to the editor (The Observer, Nov. 3, 1992). 
I'd like to address your statement that," Sex does not necessitate a relationship." You are quite correct--in a physical sense. It just takes two, or in some cases(rape), only one, consenting party to "get it on." No quarrel there. 
But you yourself allude to the distinction I'd like to make -the distinction between the physi­cal, animal act of sex, and the the interpersonal, spiritual, moral, and human aspect of sex. 
You see, you don't do humans justice when you set forth the fact that "we also have the abil­ity to reason" as the primary distinction between humans and animals. Human beings are able to find meaning and purpose in things--we are meaningful beings. 
We are able to appreciate the deeper implications of the things we encounter in our ev­eryday lives. An athletic trophy is more than just plastic and marble and brass--it is a sym­bol of success, perhaps the ca­maraderie shared on a team, of that awesome feeling of victory. 
The medal I wear around my neck is so much more than just an old piece of steel-it is a token of my grandfather's love for me, and his wish that I have .the 
chance of coming to Notre Dame just as he did. A cross is so much more for many of us than just a piece of wood--it hints at a reality which lies much deeper than the surface: the reality of Christ's love for us. They all mean something more. It's not just a meaning we impose on them either. Whether we admit it or not, there is a deeper reality there--more than just the physical. 
If that is true for between humans and inanimate objects, how much the more so it is between two human beings. When I shake your hand, Tony, it's not just a handshake--it is a physical way for me to express that it's good to see you, I'm glad you're doing all right, how 

' 


--------~-------------------­
Accent 
page 10 Thursday, November 5, 1992 
Quartet pairs with faculty members for classical ensemble 
By LAURIE SESSA and Delaware Valley Philharmonic and Assistant Accent Editor was a member of Bargemusic Chamber Players in New York. Irvine, a soloist and chamber 
For those who appreciate classical musician, was a faculty member of the music, the New World String Quartet will Aspen Music Festival and was a member perform a guest recital this Sunday in of the Pittsburgh Chamber Soloists, the Washington Hall. The recital is being Carmel Quartet and the Oberlin String sponsored by the department of music Quartet. whose concert committee brings in a Harbaugh gave his solo debut with the series of guest artists every year. Toledo Symphony at age seventeen, and 
The quartet was suggested to the has served as principal cellist of the committee by members who knew of Grand Rapids and Toledo Symphonies. their talent. "We look for the best quality He has appeared as a guest soloist with we can bring in," said Eric Kuehner, the Atlanta and Cincinnati Symphonies, director of publicity for the department among others. of music. And, according to Kuehner, the The quartet has performed together at New World String Quartet fits this Carnegie Hall in New York and the description. Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C., 

and Bartok's Quartet No. 2. In addition, Karen Buranskas on cello, and graduateMembers of the quartet include and they perform regularly at Harvard they will perform the Medelssohn Octet student Yi Xu on violin.
violinists Curtis Macomber and Vahn University. 

which requires eight musicians. Plummer, Rutledge, and BuranskasArmstrong, violist Jeffrey Irvine and In 1984 the quartet became the first According to Kuehner, the Octet does comprise the Notre Dame String Triocellist Ross Harbaugh. Harbaugh formed ensemble selected for the Blodgett not get performed very often since it who perform on campus and tour otherthe quartet in 1977, and the group won Artist-in-Residence Program at Harvard requires two quartets. "It's a wonderful campuses over the summer and duringthe Naumburg Chamber Music Award University. According to Kuehner, this piece and a great opportunity to hear school breaks. They will be giving aonly two years later. meant that the quartet was hired as a something that is difficult to put together concert in Washington Hall next spring,Macomber has performed as a soloist group. "They were hired as a quartet, because it requires two quartets for an according to Kuehner.
with the Musica Aeterna Orchestra, but they teach individually," he said. The audience," he said. The New World String Quartet's recital Julliard Symphony and at the Festival of quartet also has 12 separate recordings Scheduled to perform with the New is this Sunday, November 8 at 2 p.m. inthe Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy. that are available for purchase. 

World String Quartet a;re Notre Dame Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 forArmstrong has performed as a soloist This Sunday, the quartet will perform faculty members Carolyn Plummer on general admission and $2 for studentswith the New York Chamber Orchestra Hayden's String Quartet Op. 54 No. 1 the violin, Christine Rutledge on viola, and senior citizens. 

Cyrus brings country to JACC 
By PAUL PEARSON September. my own car," he recalls. 
Associate News Editor As if all this exposure wasn't Cyrus' problems haven't enough for the preacher's disappeared now that he's What a difference a year grandson from Flatwoods, famous. In fact, he told USA makes. Kentucky, "Achy Breaky Heart" Today that his new fame has One year ago, country artist has spawned a dance. brought a painfully nosy press Billy Ray Cyrus was singing five Yes, thanks to a dance contest into the lives of his mother and nights a week at the Ragtime sponsored by Mercury Nashville his ex-wife. "My mother almost Lounge in Huntington, West and Country Music Television, had a stroke when 'Hard Copy' Virginia. "The Achy Breaky Dance" has shoved a camera in her face, it 
Now, he has a bodyguard to swept the nation. scared her so bad." protect his ponytail. So what, you say? Country In addition to nosy cameras, 
Cyrus, whose debut album music has been around in this Cyrus has had to deal with Some Gave All has spent 17 country almost as long as Jack rumors that he used to be a weeks on top of the Billboard Daniel's whiskey and pickup Chippendale·s dancer. Cyrus has 
charts, is coming to the J.A.C.C. trucks, right? repeatedly denied this rumor, today at 7:30p.m. Well, Cyrus' fame has not saying that he just does what 
Cyrus' rise to the top has stopped at the border. Some comes naturally when he hardly been sluggish. Some Gave All has received sales dances on stage. "The thing Gave All is the first debut awards in Canada, New about it is that it wouldn't have 
country album ever to hit the Zealand and Great Britain. In made me a bad guy even if I country charts at #1. It began addition to this, "Achy Breaky had been. But it's not the life in the Billboard pop charts Heart" is hitting the charts in truth." at #4, climbed to #1 the next such places as Australia, Despite all the problems that 
week, and has been there ever Belgium, Denmark, Japan and come with fame, Billy Ray Cyrus since. South Africa. says he thoroughly enjoys being The 30-year-old Cyrus has Cyrus wasn't always this a musician, espcially being a had equal success with his first successful. In 1984, after a fire live musician. "Sometimes I feel single, "Achy Breaky Heart." destroyed most of his band's like a wilting flower," he told The song soared to #1 on both equipment, he went to Los USA Today, "but if I get a little the Billboard pop and country Angeles, formed another band, sun in me I come right back to 
charts. It was also named Single and sold cars to make ends life. "He may not get any sun of the Year at the Country Music meet. "I had to sell cars when I here, but he'll certainly get an Association award this past couldn't even change the oil in enthusiastic crowd. 

SUB will give campus bands publicity with a new m sampler 
BY ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
It's a risky wager. 
Betting on the talent and cre­ativity of Notre Dame's musical community, as well as the will­ingness of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student bodies to shell out their beer money for a compact disc full of campus bands, the Student Union Board (SUB) has announced plans to release a 16-act sampler during the Spring 1993 semester. 
The disc follows the 1991 re­lease of the Jericho Sessions, a 19-song effort produced by campus radio station WVFI and filled with musicians from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. But SUB music commissioner Ryan Hallford thinks he can improve upon the original product. 
"We were inspired by the Jericho Sessions, but this is going to be better," said Hallford. "We are going to Miami Street Studios, which is here in South Bend and considered one of the best studios in the Midwest." 

Hallford has received tapes from such campus bands as Vic­toria's Real Secret, newly­formed Mr. Head, and long-time local act XYZ Affair. Chisel, who appeared on the original Jericho Sessions recording, hopes to be included on the new compilation. 
"In the past, at Notre Dame, the music scene has been woe­fully lacking in original music," said Chisel vocalisVguitarist Ted Leo. "In the last few years, you've seen a lot more bands take an interest in doing their own music.". 
The SUB compilation will in­clude only original music, and Hallford hopes to "get the same kind of musical variety achieved by the Jericho Sessions' staff. The WVFI release included the jazz of the Ralph Falbo trio, the acoustic joyride of Brian Muller (now of Brian, Colin and Vince), and the plugged thrill of Chisel. 
While stagnate corporate rock bores the masses, the SUB sampler will likely shock Notre Dame students out of their Billy Joel-induced slumber. Musicians interested in contributing to SUB's efforts must submit tapes to Hallford by Monday, November 9. 
"This is very punk rock," said Leo. "It's the musicians and people who know about music and are involved with music doing it themselves." 
"The recordings I've gotten have all been great,n said Hall­ford. "Now we can do them jus­tice by putting them on CD." 
Maybe this wager will pay off. 
Accent

Thursday, November 5, 1992 page 11 
Live from Notre Dame. • • 
The 'Irish Accent, brings comic relief to the Notre Dame community. 

By ALISON DASSO 
Accent Writer 
Arriving from the former Soviet Union, The Uzbeki State Chamber Orchestra will play O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College on Thursday, November 5 at 7:30p.m. 
"The Uzbeki State Chamber Orchestra is like an all-star team," explains Brett McLaughlin, Director of Public Relations at Saint Mary's. "Individually they're the premier soloists from Russia combined into one orchestra." 
Performers in the orchestra have won regional and all-soviet competitions and are graduates of the Moscow and Tashkent Conservatories. All members are trained in the traditional style. 
In the past six years, the ensemble has achieved success and won critical praise for their understanding of style and for their unified string sound. 
The orchestra has performed in Estonia, Kazakhstan, Siberia, and Ukraine. The group has also been invited to participate in international music festivals at Minsk and Lvov and have made numerous appearances in Moscow. 
Members of the group have devoted themselves to performances of classical chamber orchestra repertoire, and to works by Uzbeki composers writing in both European and Central Asian style. 
Conducted by Artistic Director Muhamezhan Turdiev, the orchestra's repertoire includes works ranging from Vivaldi and Bach to Shostakovich and Schnittke. The program at Saint Mary's will include a concerto for two violins by Bach, "Divertissement" by Mozart, and "Andagio" by Barber. 
Some of the great contemporary Russian artists have appeared as guests with the orchestra, including Levon Amburtumian, Alexander Rudin, Daniel Shafran, and Michael Voskresenky. 
Reserved tickets are $16 for adults and $12 for students and senior citizens. Saint Mary's community members will be admitted for $8. For more in information, contact the O'Laughlin box office at 219-284-4626. 

By JIM BONALSKY 
Accent Writer 

Although virtually every student has seen an episode or two of "Saturday Night Live," many do not know that a comedy troupe which performs in a similar manner to the cast of "Saturday Night Live," exists here at Notre Dame. The "Irish Accent," a group that enacts live skits and improvisations, have been performing on our campus for the past five years. 
In addition to the skit-oriented format, the "Irish Accent" also perform improvisations for the audience. 
This leads to what is perhaps the most fun part of the evening, because the scenes are derived from suggestions from the audience. The Accent players ask actual audience members to come up with feelings, situations, emotions, or other suggestions for the troupe. 
The crowd is then asked to offer their ideas to the players and watch as they improvise a comedic routine around what has been said. 
The improvisational aspect of the show is perhaps its most appealing facet because of the spontaneity and originality of each show. Unlike many other comedians, it is a guarantee that fresh, new material will be presented at every performance. 
All of the members of "Irish Accent" are Notre Dame students. Although the group was started by students from the Communication and Theater major, it has since moved away from being an extension of that department. Today, members of "Irish Accent" range in majors from law students to accounting to aerospace engineers. 
The ten members of "Irish Accent" hold auditions at the beginning of each year in order to replace the graduating seniors from the year before. This year, twenty-five jester­hopefuls performed their one-liner ability and seven were chosen. During the try outs, the applicants were put into several different situations and were evaluated on their responses. 
For example, one group of hopefuls were told to improvise the experience of a poodle and a fire hydrant. Other students were given an object and asked to be creative and funny with it. It is through these strict and exact scientific methods that the "Irish Accent" members are chosen. 
Jamie Hill, a junior math major, is among those who participate in this 
'It is not as natural as you might think...We set up improvs with each other and practice that way.' 
-Jamie Hill 

comedic pastime. He stresses that the group's performance, although mostly improvisation, is not easy. 
"It is not as natural as you might think. We practice one or two times a 
· week, but the week before the show we work on our show every night." He further explained, "We set up "improvs" with each other and practice that way." 
"Irish Accent" usually performs six times a year, although this season might see fewer performances due to a late start with auditions. The first show of the year will be this Thursday, November 5th, at 9 p.m. at Theodores in LaFortune. Tickets for this event can be bought at the door for one dollar. 

-· -
.... 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 12 Thursday, November 5, 1992 

Apple 12" Color RGB monitor for  Need Penn St. GA  Gutch and Socko,  
NOTICES  Mac Only 9 mo. old w/warranty  HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  Tony x1786  Ciao Belli! Buongiorno da Roma. Two lonely Italian chicks longing for  
$310 or b/o  TWO LARGE ALUMS are  Need Penn St Ga's  two blond haired, blue eyed  
ATTENTION:  Call {908) 382-8253 & ask for Jeff  holding me captive and forcing me  Bill x1594  American guys for fun after Dec. 19.  
For more information and  to drink MD 20/20 until I get them  NEED  We miss and love you!  
assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus  B. C. TICKETS  Boston College  Will trade 2 50yd line USC tix for 2 PSU GA's. Call John 277-5415  Nora & Jennifer  
opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the  234-6524 Cheap trip to southern vactionland!  Please help! CALL PAUL 289-4278 HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  GA's  NEED BCTIC CALL TIM 4441  HEY LADIES! Matt Schnoogieschneiderhahn turns 21 today, so call him up or  
Better Business Bureau of  Selling a plane ticket to North  stop by and give him a BIG b-day  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  Carolina over Thanksgiving Break.  I NEED GA'S FOR BC AND PENN  Help I  smooch! Or a lupine! Or a fishslap!  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ You name the price.  ST.!!!! CALL AARON@ 271-2908  Call Jeanne  I must have 3 BC GAs, or 2 GAs  You won't regret it!  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ Call DAVE at 283-3662.  and 1 STU. Please Call X1234.  Cuddly Cuddly! DUO!!  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  Have 2 Penn st. Ga's  at x2645  Help!  -Hurls...  
Need 2 BC GA's:  need 4 g.a's together and 5  (p.s.: You are infinitely weirder  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  will pay $$$$or trade 2 PENN GA.  students for B.C.  DO YOU NEED TICKETS? Selling  than I am!)  
CALL AGNES 273-9376  Need 8 penn st. Students  2 Student ticket books  
TYPING  call mike at 273-2233  *******""**********••·················  with IDs for BC and Penn St.  HELP!!!!!!  
287-4082  STD TIX BC & PS X1803  Call Bid  273-2954  Orthodox Roman Catholic male,25,  
I NEED 2 BC GA'SI  The people who pay my tuition  needs a dance partner for Fri  
DOES YOUR GROUP NEED TO  PLANE TICKET TO USC  CALL DARCY X3427.  need 4 GAs for B.C.  Boston GAs 4 sale  evening Nov. 6. This is not a joke.  
RENT A PA SYSTEM? CALL  Leaves morning11/26-Returns  call  Rich 233-9279  2711514  Ladies please phone Mike at  
CLIFF FOR INFO X3283  morning 12/1  NEED: BC AND PENN STATE  234-6664 Thurs Nov 5 from 7 to 8  
CHEAP!I!!! x3860ILOST & FOUND I i'" ··~ ;,.,~, """'· ""'"" TICKETS  TICKETS. CALL BONNIE X4653 NEED 1 BC GA-JOHN X3648 Need many GA's for BC  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR NO -BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @ 287-4561. PLEASE HELP, NEED B.C.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S/STUDS CALL MIKE X:3343  pm ATTENTION MEN OF ND: Have you beer looking for an excuse to talk to ANDREA  
Lost: 35mm Vivttar camera  Also looking for one student ticket  TICKETS. CALL 1573  MARCHIOLI? Well, it's her 18th  
somewhere between 02 and Sorin.  Please call Whitney at x2666  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  birthday today!  Wish her a good  
If found, please call x2690.  HEY, I NEED BC TIX  TRADE YOUR TICKETS TO THE  one.  
CALL SEAN@ 1817  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  FREEZING-COLD OUTDOOR  {With love, the 3rd floor PIC)  
LOST: Blue 3.5" floppy disk wallet  Will pay BIG BUCK$ for your BC  PENN STATE GAME TO ME FOR  
Possibly left in Fitzpatrick cluster  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  GA'sl Call Jim x3367  DRINKING MONEY SO YOU CAN  NEED LOTS OF PENN  ""HEY GRUBER!!"'  
Call Jeff x2271  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ENJOY THE WARMTH OF THE  ST. GA'S-CALL TOM  YOUR BROODING EYES SEND  
These disks hold my homeworkll  GAME IN THE COMFORT OF  X:3343  CHILL UP MY SPINE!I  
I NEED ND FOOTBALL  NEED PENN ST. TIX  YOUR FAVORITE BAR STOOL  
LOST: Silver earring; two linked  TICKETS.272-6306  NICK X4284  CALL RICH AT x1005  J. POTTER- 
quarter-size circles with engraved  You're one FINE thing!!  
design on each.  Lost on Saturday,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Trade/Selling  BC GA's  NEED 1 STUD. TIC FOR BC  
Oct. 31 somewhere on North Quad.  PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston  for 1 PSU  x 4483  I need BC tix badly I  GAME. CALL DAVE 1644.  MARGE  
If found, please call289-6485.  College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  John x2763  
@ x4758 or x4721.  For sale: 2 BC student tix. Call  •••t NEED 2 PENN STATE TIX,  1!1!!!!1!1!1!  
WANTED  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Meredith at x2690  Need 4 Penn State Tix Call Tom X3423  STUD. OR GA's:•• Cara X4045.  Hobbes is still not 21, too bad  
Need One Ticket For Boston  I need 2 GA's for the Penn State  some day you'll drink with us  
College!!! Call273-2967!11  game so badly, it's ridiculous. Call  I need as many  Need B.C. tix, student or GA's  
ALASKA SUMMER  Mark at 4063 and take financial  •• PENN STATE TICKETS••  Call Mike at x1 084  f  !  !I  !  !I  I  I  !  !  !  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  advantage I  as you have!!  
$5000+/month. Free transportation!  I must have B.C. tickets I Either  ••Call Tara #4766 ..  I need Penn State G.A.'s  Doctor and teacher will make  
Room & Board! Over 8000  Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and  Helpl I need a BC GA or stud tix!  Call Brian at x1771  drearns for your baby come true.  
openings. No experience  his buddies are coming in from  call Beth 3724  I am in desperate need of 2 Penn  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
necessary. Male or Female. For  B.C. to watch their team get  State GAs.  $$$$  MONEY-MONEY $$$$  summers by the beach. Your baby  
employment program call Student  slaughtered! Please help me out!  Jim x4110  LOTS-0-MONEY  rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ I'M DESPERATEI!IIII X4990  THAT'S WHAT I'LL PAY  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
4155 ext. A5584.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  2 BC GA's FOR SALE  FOR YOUR BC GA'S  summer. Art, music, the best  
Robert at287-9118  ONLY YOU CAN HELP ME!  call TOM 289-8735  education, endless love. Call  
EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAY!  I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN  I NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A.S  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Franny or Stephen collect. {212)  
ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT  ST GA, PRETTY PLEASE WITH A  CALL PETE AT 273-1962  369-2597.  
HOME. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800­ CHERRY ON TOP.  I need B.C. GA'S !!!  
467-6226 EXT 6840.  MIKE X2209  I still need BC student tix!  Please call TIM  at  x1006  DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll  
Call Mike F. at 289-5563.  NEED 2 BC GA'S.  love this 3rd grade boy who needs  
NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade  NEED 10 PENN ST GAs  CALL CHRIS 1-419-882-7208.  NEED 3 BC GAs  tutor. Call me collect in NY for more  
boy in SB. I tutored him last year  BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071  I have 2 B.C. GA's 289-6052  Call Lyn 283-4551  info@ 718-325-9642 or esc.  
but I graduated. Please call me  Need 2 BC GA's  
collect in NY for more info Mike  NEED 1 PENN STATE GA  Joe #1112  need.2.std be sean 1067  DIET MAGIC! 30 lbs. 30 days. $30.  
Ferguson 718-325-9642 or call CSC  """PENWPENWPENWPENN...  call Kim 1511  Call {616)471-3970  
..TICKETS"TICKETS"TICKETS""  HELP  I need 2 Stud. BC Tix  
I NEED PSU TIX: GAISTU CALL  NEED many STUD B.C. TIX  I need BC tickets PLEASE call 272­ Jason  x1746  babycakes:  
AL: 273-8382  I  -call Bill-at 1104  8115  happy 22ndl!  
************WANTED**************  NEED 4  Need BC Tix  need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648  PERSONAL  remember: !.bacteria are motile, baby  
Ride to Scranton, PA or any where  PENN STATE  Gary x1624  2.you . .like bunnies in MY room  
along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Will help with gas, tolls and driving.  GA'S  Help ME! The Junkman needs BC  HELP! Need 1 BC Ticket Call Lisa 217-9129  Hey Nil!  {the love slave)  
Flexible in departure and return times. CALL JILL@ X4758  CALL JEANNE AT 283-2645 """PENN"PENWPENN"PENW..  GA's. Please call John at x2174. Desperately need B.C. GA's .  I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn State Ticket Either Student or GA.  AMANDA KAY have a wonderful day  Look out Atlanta, here I come!!! I'll be back Fri. night-buy me a drink! -Wish me luck somebody!  
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT.  ..TICKETS"TICKETS"TICKETS..  Please call Beth at x2577.  Please call Chris x4511  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  Everyone look here tomorrow and ask Slider what it's all about.  
Now Hiring Spring Break Reps!!!! For Panama City Beach. Greeks, Organizations, Individuals. Earn Cash, Free Trips, & Experience. Call Joe. Endless Summer 1-800­234-7007. HELP!  DESPERATELY NEEDEDIIIIII 2--4 STUDENT TIX FOR PENN STATE I My friends are poor but If you are nice and aren't planning on going they would appreciate your help. Call JON X3592.  I have two Billy Rae Cyrus tickets for sale-FACE VALUE!!! I can't make it to the show but I'd love it if you went and did the "Achy-Breaky" for mel Call Erin at x4990. Need Penn St. and B.C.  I NEED ANY PENN STATE TICKETS! GA's or Student Call Rich x3367 Need two BC GA's, call Podge,  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. {818) 246-1763  {Ha!Ha!Ha!) -Hey everybody at SMC have fun in class today, sorry I missed 'ya. ...luvDREW ..Spring Break!"" Bahamas Cruise {+10 Meals) $279! Panama City with kitchen $119 Cancun $429! Jamaica $479!  
I NEED A FEW OF THOSE COOL NO/BUD T-SHIRTS IF U HAVE ANY  WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY! CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x11 03  tickets Call Jon or Greg X4239  x4782  PAWN BUY  SELL  TRADE  Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest $249! Prices increase 12111/92!  
4 SALE CALL MEGAN 4222 FOR RENT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ N E E D PENN ST & BC  I need two Boston College GA's. Call Jim@ 28~J-1989  NEED 2 BC GA'S -STEVE #2054­N.D. Alum has B.C. G.A.s and is  OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550  1-800-678-6386 TO HAN & LElAH & CHEWIE Thank you for the timely rescue  
-­ For rent: 1 room available -use of all facilities -clean & safe neighborhood -close to campus ­$200 a month. Ask for Paul 232­2794. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a day 2880955  WILL BEAT ANY INSANE OFFER kyle 234-9433 WILL BEAT  I need one Penn State GA for my little brother who is a high school sophmore. Call Jim@ 289-1989. Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506  looking to buy or trade for 2 Penn State G.A.s. Call (717) 697-2219 and ask for Tom or leave message. A PENNSYLVANIA RESIDENT REALLY NEEDS 2 PENN STATE G.A.'S PLEASE! CALL GEORGE X3015 Need BC tickets Will pay $$$$-Call Brendan 289-2683  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime {805) 520-5978 or attorney {818) 241­5535. STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Information on semester, year, graduate, sumrner and internship programs in Australia. We represent  from being sexually assaulted by RED HAIRED CHARLIE FROM 5TH FLOOR GRACE. May the force be with you, and may it spay him. -Medusa You know who you are­1 hope I do not offend you {if I have please tell me) You are a genuinely nice guy. Congrats on your need not to worry anymore! I hope we can be friends one day. If you agree please respond.  
- Need to sublet trtle crk apt Call Damian x1870 FOR SALE 1 week I 2 person FLORIDA VACATION with CRUISE to  ANY INSANE OFFER GIVE A CALL & TRY ME $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ COLD CASH PAID FOR 2 BC GA'S. CALL KEVIN #3291  California ALUM desperate for Penn State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. (( {415)597-2319 SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART  I really really really REALLY need 2 BC and 2 Penn State tickets. Please please please please call Monica @283-4033 and leave message with number, price, etc. I NEED BC STUDENTS AND GA TICKETS CALL STEVE AT 283­3422  28 Australian Universities. Call us toll free 1-800-245-2575. Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip To Bahamas or Panama City! Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! Sign-Up Before 12/111921 Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386.  KAT, How desperate are you? CAHILL: Hope you cranked on your Orgo test from hell. Enjoy seeing that "chute" boy, and don't be too embarassed. WEEN  
BAHAMAS. Best Offer 288-6811  I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY  OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL  NEED 2 PENN ST-GA OR STUD.  MEN AND WOMEN  To the SEX GODDESS of 1-W:  
For Sale: United Airline transferable  X3443  HISTORY!  call x4907: leave price and pho#  
travel credits. Phone 259-0324.  NEED GAs, Penn St. BC  CALL RICH AT x1005  One Student Ticket Booklet For  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE  Ha ha ha. I'm back with another message just to annoy you. Is  
x3593  BC and PSU Games For Sale.  Jason jealous quite yet? He very  
CHEAP return ticket to San Francisco out of Chicago-OHare, 20to24 Nov. Call289-7114 alter 7.  BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC Need BC Ttcket -Stud or GA Call Greg at 3451  I'm in DESPERATE need of 2 GA tix for ND vs. Duke on Feb. 6. Please call Kat 284-5442  Lisa x1322. Have 2 BC ~As. Call Maria @ 4036 w/ best offer.  For more info, call COSlMO'S 277-1875.  well should be ..... Hey SIOBHAN! Don't you wish you were still at this publication? I know  
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC  you are so jealous ....  

page 13

Thursday, November 5, 1992 
. ..... ..... ..... ...... ....... ...... ..... .................
.. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ..
. . .. .. . .. .. .. ..
. . . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . ­...-..:!LI~ ••••• • • • •••••• •••• •••••• • • ••••••• •••••• • • ~; <--."I>. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·~ ' ~f: • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ ~;:..a~ c::> . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .w ~ ~-4!J!j; "-/';'· ..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . .. ....... ' ~it cg, CJ.~ ~}-­
NHL STANDINGS  i  SCHEDULE  
WALES  CONFERENCE  NHL Goalie  Statistics  BASKETBALL  
Patrick Division Pittsburgh NY Rangers New Jersey NY Islanders Washington Philadelphia  w 10 8 7 6 5 3  L 1 4 5 6 8 7  T 2 1 0 1 0 3  Pta 22 17 14 13 10 9  GF 67 54 42 46 40 51  GA 41 44 43 44 45 60  Home 6­0·1 6­1·1 4­3·0 3­2·0 3­3·0 2· 2·1  Away 4­1·1 2· 3·0 3­2·0 3­4-1 ·2· 5·0 1· 5-2  Dlv 3­0·1 5­2·0 5­4-0 5­5·0 (). 5·0 2· 4·1  NEW YORK (AP)-NHL goalie statistics through Nov. 1: (Empty-net goals in parentheses) MP GA SOAVG w L T Reese 320 13 1 2.44 4 1 0 Vernon 404 22 0 3.27 4 3 0 Calgary (0) 724 35 1 2.90 8 4 0 Vanbiesbrouck 363 18 0 2.98 3 2 1 Richter 365 19 0 3.12 4 2 0  SATURDAY All Times EST COLLEGE FOOTBALL Top 25 No. 1 Washington at No. 12 Arizona, 3:30 p.m. No. 3 Alabanna at Louisiana State, 3:30p.m. No.4 Michigan at Northwestern, 12:30 p.m. No. 5 Texas A&M vs. Louisville, 3:30p.m.  National Basketball Association Philadelphia at New Vorl<, 7:30p.m. Orlando at Washington, 7:30 p.m. New Jersey at Miam, 7:30p.m. Detroit at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Golden State at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Atlanta at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Utah at Dallas, 8:30p.m. 
Adams Division Montreal Quebec Boston Buffalo  8 7 7 6  3 3 2 4  2 2 1 2  18 16 15 14  57 54 51 64  45 41 32 46  6­4­3­5­ 0·1 1·0 1-1 1·0  2· 3­4­1·  3-1 2·2 1·0 3·2  1· 2· 2· 3­ 2·0 0·1 0·0 1·1  NY Rangers (1) Lemelin Moog Boston (1) Whitmore  730 38 216 11 389 20 607 32 185 9  0 0 0 0 0  3.12 3.06 3.08 3.16 2.92  7 2 5 7 1  4 2 0 2 1  1 0 1 1 1  No.6 Florida State vs. Maryland, Noon No. 7 Nebraska vs. No. 13 Kansas, 7:30 p.m. No. 8 Notre Dame vs. No. 9 Boston College.. 1:35p.m. No. 10 Syracuse vs. Virginia Tech, Noon  Boston at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. San Antonio at Denver, 9 p.m. LA Clippers at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. Houston vs. Seattle at Tokyo. 10 p.m.  
Hartford Ottawa  3 1  8 10  1 1  7 3  33 27  50 66  1· 1·  5·1 3-1  2· ().  3·0 7-0  2· 1·  3·1 5·1  Mclean Vancouver (0)  420 23 605 32  0 0  3.29 3.17  4 5  3 4  0 1  No. 11 Southern Cal at No. 21 Stanford, 6:30 p.m  SUNDAY PRO FOOTBALL  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  Young  464 25  0  3.23  3  6  0  No. 14 Florida vs. Southern Mississippi, 1:30  National  Football  League 
Norris  Division  Jablonski  320 18  0  3.38  1  2  1  p.m  Cleveland at Houston, 1 p.m. 
w  L  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Away  Dlv  Tampa Bay (0)  788 43  0  3.27  4  8  1  No. 16 Colorado vs. Oklahoma State, 2:10p.m.  Dallas at Detroit, 1 p.m.  
Detroit Toronto Minnesota St. louis Tampa Bay Chicago  7 6 6 5 5 4  5 4 5 7 8 6  0 2 1 1 1 3  14 14 13 11 11 11  49 43 43 47 49 46  44 41 45 56 47 47  4­5­3­4· 4· 2·  1·0 2·1 1·1 4·1 3-0 2·3  3­1· 3­1· 1· 2·  4-0 2·1 4·0 3·0 5·1 4·0  2· 4· 4· 1· 3­2·  2·0 2·0 1·0 6·0 3·1 2·1  Barrasso Wregget Pittsburgh (0) Potvin Fuhr Toronto (0)  610 30 119 11 730 41 424 21 304 20 730 41  0 0 0 0 0 0  2.95 5.55 3.37 2.97 3.95 3.37  8 1 9 4 2 6  0 1 1 2 2 4  2 0 2 1 1 2  No. 17 North Carolina State at Virginia. 12:10 p.m. No. 18 North Carolina at Clemson, 1 p.m. No. 19 Mississippi State vs. Ar!<ansas, 12:40 p.m. No. 20 Texas at Texas Christian, 1:10 p.m.  Green Bay at New Vorl< Giants, 1 p.m. Los Angeles Raiders at Phrladelphia. 1 p.m. Miami at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. New Orleans at New England, 1 p.m. New York Jets at Denver, 4 p.m. 
Smythe Division Calgary 9 4 Los Angeles 7 4 Vancouver 5 5 Edmonton 4 8 Winnipeg 4 9 San Jose 2 9 Tuesday's Games Washington 4, Chicago 1  0 1 1 1 0 1  18 15 11 9 8 5  54 51 42 38 45 31  38 5­3·0 4· 1·0 6­2·0 46 4· 1-0 3­3·1 4­2·0 37 3­2·0 2· 3-1 4­1-0 56 3­3-1 1· 5·0 (). 5·0 54 4· 2-0 (). 7-0 2· 5-0 ,_56 3-0 1· 6·1 1· 2·0 NHL Scoring Leaders NEW YORK (AP) -NHL scoring leaders through  Hextall Fiset Quebec (0) Puppa Hasek Buffalo (1) Healy Fitzpatrick NY Islanders  602 33 60 5 665 38 472 25 199 13 673 39 482 28 239 14 (0)725 42  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  3.29 5.00 3.43 3.18 3.92 3.48 3.49 3.51 3.48  7 0 7 4 2 6 4 2 6  2 1 3 1 2 3 3 0 5  1 0 1 2 0 2 1 0 1  No. 22 Ohio State vs. Minnesota, 1:30 p.m. No. 25 Washington State vs. Arizona State, 5:05 p.m. HOCKEY National Hockey League St. Louis at Philadelphia, 1:10 p.m. Chicago at Quebec, 2:10 p.m. New Vorl< Rangers at Boston, 7:10p.m. Tampa Bay at New Vorl< Islanders, 7:40p.m.  Phoenix at Los Angeles Rams. 4 p.m. Pntsburgh at Buffalo, 4 p.m. San Diego at Kansas City, 4 p.m. Washington at Seattle. 4 p.m. Cincinnati at Chicago, 8 p.m. HOCKEY National Hockey League Calgary at Quebec, 2:10p.m. Pittsburgh at Chicago, 8:40p.m. 
Quebec 3, Hartford 3, tie Pittsburgh 2, New York Islanders 0 Tampa Bay 6, St. Louis 4 Edmonton 5, Ottawa 2 Wednesday's Games Montreal at Detroit, late. Philadelphia at New York Rangers, late. Calgary at Vancouver, late.  November 3: Player. Team Lemieux, Pgh Stevens, Pgh LaFontaine, Bul Sakic, Que Andreychuk, But Gilmour, Tor  GP 13 13 12 12 12 12  G 18 14 10 10 9 8  A 20 19 20 12 13 14  PTS 38 33 30 22 22 22  PIM 10 16 21 8 14 26  Waite Be~our Chicago (0) Billington Terreri New Jersey (1) Roy Racicot  242 11 494 32 738 43 300 17 419 25 722 43 608 29 120 14  1 0 1 b 1 1 0 0  2.73 3.89 3.50 3.40 3.58 3.57 2.86 7.00  2 2 4 3 4 7 6 1  1 4 5 2 3 5 2 1  0 3 3 0 0 0 2 0  Washington at Hartford, 7:40p.m. Detroit at Montreal. 8:10p.m. Pittsburgh at Toronto, 8:10p.m. Edmonton at Minnesota, 8:10p.m. Buffalo at Los Angeles, 10:40 p.m. New Jersey at San Jose, 10:40 p.m.  Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:10 p.m. Los Angeles at San Jose, 10:40 p.m. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association Charlene at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Denver at Portland, 10 p.m. Sacramento at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m.  
Thursday's Games  Messier, NYR  13  7  15  22  14  Montreal (1)  730 44  0  3.62  7  3  2  
Quebec at Boston, 7:40p.m.  Selanne, Wpg  13  11  9  20  10  Riendeau  193 10  0  3.11  3  0  0  
St. Louis at Pittsburgh, 7:40 p.m. New Vorl< Islanders at Minnesota, 8:10p.m.  Recchi. Pha Jagr. Pgh  13 13  8 6  12 14  20 20  19 8  Cheveldae Detroit (0)  527 34 720 44  0 0  3.87 3.67  4 7  5 5  0 0  
Toromo at Chicago, 9:40p.m  Turgeon, NYI  13  6  14  20  2  Hrivnak  220 9  0  2.45  2  1  0  
Ottawa at Calgary, 9:40p.m.  Savard, Mtl  13  5  15  20  14  Beaupre  497 34  0  4.10  2  7  0  
Bulfalo at San Jose, 10:40 p.m. New .lersey at Los Angeles. 10:40 p.m.  Oates, Bas Sundin, Que  10 12  4 9  16 10  20 19  6 6  Washington (1)  720 44  0  3.67  4  8  0  

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Je me souviens 

If you point your car in a northeasterly direction and start driving, you'll come across two World Series towns-Detroit, and now Toronto, probably still in an uproar after the events of a couple of weeks ago. Keep driving on Highway 401 and the license plates begin to change, as you approach Quebec. The plates are stamped: "Je me souviens", which means, "I remember." 
Quebec has a lot of things to remember these days. Surrounded on all sides by a prosperous English-speaking culture, they are beginning to feel the anxieties of a culture placed on the endangered species list. This is not 
unlike other cultures: the Native Americans, the Gaeltacht of Ireland, or 
those battling for their rights and their identities in the Baltics. 
And so the people of Quebec say "Je me souviens." Which is, I believe, one of the oldest, simplest, and most awe-inspiring rallying cries ever spoken. 
By remembering, people bring to mind their own identity, greater clarity of purpose, better focus in life. By remembering, attitudes can be shaped about the future, about the past, and about our actions in the present. We can recall ("remember") this great tradition in the journeys of the Israelites. The Old Testament is their own story, their own remembering, of their relationship with God. And it was told-repeatedly-in times of crisis, when other peoples and cultures seemed on the verge of extinguishing their legacy. 
There is a legacy for us, too, and the month of November brings with it an opportunity to explore that legacy. 
For during this month, we reflect on the gift of all those who have passed 
away. Churches will be filled with people reverently inscribing the names of 
loved ones in "Books of the Faithful Departed." They will do this, not 
because it is some cute or curious ritual, but because down deep inside they 
will know there is something intrinsically holy in the naming, in the 
keeping alive, of the memory of a person who has brought them to this 
particular moment. By remembering, our past becomes alive. 
Autumn is a time many of us associate with remembering -partly, perhaps, because we are back at school, we are beginning a new cycle of work, discovery, and challenge. We remember former classmates, former romances, athletic events, the approach of the holidays and how these were spent with family and friends. All of this is bound up with our sense of who we are and who we hope to be. Every Sunday night, we sit huddled together in some residence hall chapel. We profess that the greatest thing we do is to remember a country preacher who worked a dusty strip in the Middle East about two thousand years ago. We say this as we stand in the midst of other seemingly insurmountable powers-political, economic, military, societal. We say that the memory of a single, simple man can change the course of the world. Is this not naive? A fool's wisdom? Some kind of cheap Hallmark­card sentimentality? 
But think about it for a minute. How many times has my life -or yours ­been changed by running into a single, simple person? How many times have the powers of the world buckled under the hope and vision of a single person? Proof abounds-for all the Lech Walesas, Dorothy Days, and Oscar Romeros of the world, there are many others, unsung, working the streets of the dispossessed and the poor. Some more of them were martyred last weekend. And they call us to join them. 
We are right to call to mind the memories of these many inspirations, the "spirits" that have brought us to this day. They are the Jesuses, the heroines, the aged hands of caring grandparents, that continue to prod us to completion, long after they have passed to another life and only live on in our memory. And we are right to call them all to mind, simply, in our writing of their names in an ordinary book. By doing so, we experience a small portion of the mystery we call the Communion of Saints. 
I have been told that in Africa, Catholic liturgies begin with a recalling of all the memories of family members who have gone to their resting place. We do this too, as part of the eucharistic prayer. We celebrate the mystery and memory of those who have shaped us, and are now hidden from our view: parents, grandparents, friends, teachers, lovers. By naming them in our hearts and minds, we set our compass on the Source of Love. 
How many lives have shaped us and brought us to this moment? And how 
many other simple souls will we encounter in our short lifetimes, who will challenge us to a deeper understanding of God's will? 
"Je me souviens."-May we remember well. 
Steven C. Warner, Director of Liturgical Resources 
Please join in prayer for the repose of the soul of Moses Platt, recently deceased, the father of David Platt of Grace Hall. 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. November 7 5:00 p.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. Sun. November 8 8:00 a.m. Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. Bishop John M. D'Arcy 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
SCIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  2 Maccabees 7, 1--2, 9--14  
2ND READING  2 Thessalonians 2, 16--3, 5  
GosPEL  Luke 20, 27--38  

page 14 The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1992 
"Towards the end of the year I think The trio is the nucleus of a young team Michelle really realized what she could which appears destined for greatness. do," said the Notre Dame coach. "We are All but two starters return for next a better team and ar--------------,season, a list which 


Lethal 
continued from page 20 
earthy. 
more explosive te when the ball is at he feeMt."C h ld 
c art y wou never say that she wanted the ball, but it became obvious she was the go­to player as the season progressed. The most glaring example game in the season's final two games. With the Irish's 
CEDAR RAPIDS. Iowa (AP) ­It's appropriate that Rick Barry, one of pro basketball's best shooters, is starting his coaching career with a team called the Sharpshooters. 
Barry, 48, retired as a player in 1980 after scoring 25,259 points in the ABA and NBA. He won scoring titles in both leagues and played on champi­onship teams in both. 
Barry knows that despite his accomplishments as a player, people are skeptical of his abil­ity to coach. He is eager to prove them wrong. 
"People don't think Rick Barry can be a basketball coach," he said. "People always said people who are, quote, 'great players' don't make great coaches. I think that's a crock. 
''I'm also realistic enough to know you can only be as good a coach as the players you have. You have to go ahead and earn their respect and make the most of the potential they have." 
Barry rejected several oppor­tunities in broadcasting to coach the Cedar Rapids Sharp­shooters, a new franchise in the given to me more than the other players," said McCarthy modestly. 

Individually they are great players. Together, they give Notre Dame one of the best offenses in the nation. The trio had a hand in 104 of the 159 goals scored this season, and it appears that the best is yet to come. 
Pts Goals Assists Game 
· Winners Rosella Guerrero 
33 13 7 4 
Michelle McCarthy 

27 12 3 5 
Ragen Coyne 
15 4 7 
includes the top five scorers, and defensive wizards Jill Matesic and 
Andrea Kurek. 
"We are going to win a lot of games in the future," added Petrucelli. "And those three are going to play a big part in it." 
"We think that we can make the tournament, 

NCAA tournament hopes'------------___.~and do really well," said fading, the final two preseason games Coyne. "We feel we were as good as any became must wins. McCarthy responded team we played this year, and we are by scoring the winning goal in the first only going to get better." game and opening the defense for For these little, lethal, look-alikes 
Barry begins his coaching career with Sharpshooters 


Global Basketball Association. 
It's minor-league basketball, but Barry doesn't mind. He thinks it's a perfect place to prove himself. 
"It will give me an opportunity to find out if I like coaching," he said. "And I get to do it without being in a big fish bowl like you would have in the NBA and begins Nov. 16 against the SouthGA Blues. The first game he will coach is an exhibition Nov. 12 against the Mississippi Coast Sharks at Lake Charles, La. 
Cedar Rapids owner Rich Wolfe reached a verbal agree­ment with Barry in September 
to coach the Sharpshooters. They completed the deal last Thursday. 
Barry said when he first re­tired, he never thought about coaching. But developments in the pro game in recent years encouraged him to look into the profession. 




~---~:----~---~-~ -----~---------------~----------------­
Thursday, November 5, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Pacers hope off-season deals will pay off 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) ~Indiana Pacers coach Bob Hill will discover this season whether less is more. 
The Pacers, a first-round ca­sualty of the playoffs the past two years, tried to improve their team chemistry by trading away Chuck Person, the erstwhile Rifleman, and point guard Micheal Williams, a CBA reclamation project. 
In return, the Pacers obtained small forward Sam Mitchell and point guard Pooh Richardson from the Minnesota Tim­berwolves. Mitchell has added defense and rebounding, but he won't draw many favorable comparisons to Person as a scorer. 
Richardson, reunited with his former UCLA teammate Reggie Miller in the backcourt, isn't the scorer Williams was either. However, Hill and team presi­dent Donnie Walsh weren't looking for offense when they pulled the trigger on the trade. They believe they found what they wanted. 
"Our biggest difference is the chemistry on the team," said Hill. "They like one another, they root for one another. We're moving the ball, they're protecting one another defen­sively. It's more of a team in the true definition of the word." 
Two other parts of the puzzle must also fit into place, though. Rik Smits, the Pacers' 7 -foot-4 
AP File Photo 
center, had arthroscopic

Indiana's Reggie Miller hopes that the Pacer's off-season aquisitions 
surgery on his left knee during

will help boost the team this season. 
the first week of September. 
His recovery has been slow, though not without highlights. He scored 21 points in 21 min­utes of a 109-96 win over. the Boston Celtics Saturday night in the Pacers' final preseason tuneup. 
Indiana finished 5-3 in the exbibition season. 
Hill said it was the best he'd ever seen Smits play. However, he'd like to see more. 
"The first key is to continue to rehab Rik's knee so we can hopefully get 35 minutes out of him," admitted Hill. 
Finally there is Detlef Schrempf, the NBA's best sixth man for the past two seasons and the Pacers' steadiest per­former. 
Schrempf, satisfied with a re­working of his contract, is coming off his best season, av­eraging 17.6 points and 9.6 re­bounds. 
He is the Pacers' best big for­ward, best small forward, and when Hill uses a smaller lineup, even their best center. But Hill can't afford to start the 6-9 Schrempf, who has been bothered by early foul trouble at times. 
"It's a big decision I have to make," Hill said. 
Hill's decision has been to start 6-10 Dale Davis at power forward and 6-8 George Mc­Cloud at small forward. Schrempf and Mitchell can come off the bench and play either spot, which gives Hill plenty of flexibility. 
Hill has been happy with Mc­Cloud's play as a starter. 
"I never thought he'd re­bound," said Hill, "but he re­bounded really well in the ex­hibition season at that position. 
"The guy can really pass, he's so unselfish. Plus, they have to guard him from the 3-point line. He may be the key to that whole thing, along with Pooh. 
"Then when you can come with Sam behind him ... Sam is probably as good a defender as George, but he's going to set screens, he's going to get shots for other guys, and he doesn't take bad shots. So we're not getting a bad shot out of that position, and we're getting the ball moved more, and we're probably getting overall better defense." 
Vern Fleming, who has logged more games as a Pacer (631) than any player in history, is back as the third guard, although McCloud and rookie Malik Sealy can expect to log some minutes at big guard in certain situations. 
Co-captain LaSalle Thompson and Greg Dreiling back up the post players, and Kenny Williams should see more ac­tion at small forward this year. 
The only other change is the retirement of Indianapolis na­tive Randy Wittman, now a Pacers assistant coach. 
Fry won't write off Iowa's season 
uwhy Are You At A Christian University?" 
a discussion with George Marsden, NO History Professor 
Thursday, November 5 7:00 p.1n. Siegfried Chapel 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Sponsored by: lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship and Campus Prayer Groups 
U.:R.n:AN PLU.NBE :R.Ea'L8'T:R.A.'T'LO N DEA.D L 'LNE NOVEM..BE:R. 6  
R.EGISTA.ATION INFORMATION AVAII_Al3L£: ND: "'Center for Social Concerns ~Campus Ministry: Badin Ha/1/Hesburgh Library "'Dorm Representatives SMC: ~SURV ~ Campus Ministry ""Justice Education  
For more information call: Center £or Social Concerns Sue Cunningham: 239-5293 , or talk to your hall representative  

NO Tae Kwon Do Club will be holding testing on November 5 at 7:30 p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the JACC. If you have questions call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. 
Power volleyball is being played at the Rock on Mondays from 12 p.m.-1:15 p.m. and is open to all. If you have any questions, call Mike at 239-5689. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold its weekly meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. All are welcome. Call 
E.D. at 283-1276 with questions. 


"At the time that it happened, I'm saying to myself, 'How in the world could that happen? It just doesn't happen to good programs.' But it does," Fry said. 
This year, with a brutal non­conference schedule, injuries and the loss of key all-Big Ten performers to graduation, the Hawkeyes are struggling as they head into Saturday's game at Indiana (5-3 overall, 3-2 Big Ten). Iowa, 2-3 in the confer­ence, needs to win its final three games to avoid finishing below .500 for only the second time in 12 years. 
"It's something we don't ex­perience around here, but we're experiencing it now," Fry said. "I can't explain it. I'm not that smart." 
The early schedule of North Carolina State, Miami and Col­orado and then opening the Big Ten season at defending champion Michigan prevented the Hawkeyes from building momentum and confidence, Fry said. 
"If we had some schedules like a lot of the people in the top 20, there's a good chance we'd be in the top 20 right now and probably only lost one or two games like we normally do," he said. 
"But this is a different year. Last year, that was a picnic compared to this year." 
Still, it's not like his players aren't trying, Fry said. In fact, despite the losses, he says 
-

there's not much to yell at them about. 
CRUISE JOBS 

Students Needed! Eam$2.000+I month worldngforcrulae shipsor lour companies. Holiday, Summer, and Full­llme employment available. For }'DUl 'W./"13 employment program call: 
Crwlie Employment Snvll:a 
(206) 634-0468 ExL C SSM 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP)-Iowa football coach Hayden Fry says he's not about to write off this season and play freshmen and sophomores to give them ex­perience for next year. 
"We're not going to give them any consideration at all," Fry said Tuesday. "If they can help us win, they'll play. If they can't, they'll be on the sidelines with me. We're going to do ev­erything we can to salvage the last three ballgames." 

At his weekly news confer­ence, Fry likened his program to the ones at Southern Cal and Michigan State. Those two teams met in the Rose Bowl four years ago but each won only three games apiece the fol­lowing year. 
Iowa, a 10-game winner and bowl participant last season, is limping along at 3-6 this sea­son. 
page 16 The Observer 
Thursday, November 5, 1992 

NBA's balance of power shifting as season opens 
Magic Johnson's surprise sec­ond retirement again will shuf­fle the balance of power in the NBA when its 47th season opens with 11 games Friday night. 
With Johnson back, some be­lieved the Los Angeles Lakers would return to title contention, a position they enjoyed for the entire decade of the 1980s. Others thought they at least would have a say in who would play in the Western Conference finals. 
Without Johnson last season, the Lakers faced tight competi­tion in their own territory for the first time, when the Los Angeles Clippers made the playoffs for the first time and the Lakers barely made it on 
Barnett:... Mi 
no-huddle.> thiijgs look fused. Michigan takes advan~ tage of the rules when substitute.. All defensive 
the final day of the regular sea­son. 
That competition begins anew Friday night when the Lakers face the Clippers at the LA Sports Arena. 
"We can't be considered in the same class we were before," general manager Jerry West said. "We're unsure; we don't know what we have." 
"I don't think this makes us totally a rebuilding team, but some things are obvious," rookie coach Randy Pfund said. "When you lose a superstar and a player that's your leader, that creates a little different ex­pectation than we started with this year." 
In other openers Friday night, it will be Minnesota at Boston, New Jersey at Philadelphia, Miami at Orlando, New York at Atlanta, Washington at Char­lotte, Chicago at Cleveland, Milwaukee at Detroit, Golden State at Utah, San Antonio at Sacramento, and Seattle vs. Houston at Tokyo. 

Four teams will be at home when they play their first games Saturday night, with Utah at Dallas, San Antonio at Denver, Detroit at Indiana and the Clippers at Phoenix. Portland will be the last team to make its debut, when it entertains Denver on Sunday night. 
The Lakers, who in 1991-92 had their worst season (43-39) in 16 years, again will have to start Sedale Threatt at point guard instead of Johnson. Tony 
leave 12 men on the .··s ca~led lingering, vrtll.. hlui't do that.'' Perry 
so far Michigan has en clean. We haven't found y int!:!nt to deceive with 
fancy substituting. 

Smith is expected to be Threatt's backup, with Pfund also high on rookies Duane Cooper and Anthony Peeler. 
"I want to see Peeler and Cooper very soon backing up Sedale," Pfund said. "They've been looking good at practice." 
The Lakers' older players in­clude Byron Scott, James Worthy and Sam Perkins, all 31, and James Edwards, 36. Other veterans include center Vlade Divac and A.C. Green. 
Another team likely to open its season without a key player is the Charlotte Hornets, who are still hoping holdout Alonzo Mourning, the No. 2 pick in the 1992 draft, will lead them to their first playoff berth. 
"I don't have a good feel about how much he has missed or how much that will hurt us," coach Allan Bristow said. "Once we get him adjusted to playing with the guys, maybe it will be a week or so before I can have a gauge on that." 
Until Mourning is signed ­agent David Falk said Mourning is prepared to sit out the season until his salary demands are met -Charlotte will start veteran Mike Gminski at center. 
But even without Mourning and his expected impact on re­bounding and shot-blocking, the Hornets nearly made the playoffs last season behind their top draft picks of the past two years, Kendall Gill and Larry Johnson. 

RIS 
E~RESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -LaFortune Student Center-239-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm Saturday, 8:00am -9:00 pm Sunday, 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS LEASING NOW FOR AUGUST 
APARTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR SELECTION 
1 & 2 Bedroom Units 9 Month Leases 
All utilities included Balconies/ Patios 
Leisure Open Space Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi Central Air Weight Machine Shuttle Bus 24 Hour Laundry 
Tennis -Volley -Basketball Courts 
Relaxed secure environment in good neighborhood, convenient to shopping 
For More Information Call272-1441 
.rP-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---~---------------------­
Take a great teacher home for Christmas. 
Looking for an extraordinary gift from Notre Dame? Well, there's probably someone back home who would love to meet one of your great professors. To make that possible, the Alumni Association has just published the first four programs in the Notre Dame Great Teachers Series. Why? Because the university can offer something exciting for people whose college days are behind them but who haven't forgotten what a • difference great teachers made in their lives. So we asked four of ND's outstanding professors to help us throw open a window for the mind and spirit. They responded with specially prepared lectures on classic works --works they have spent their careers studying and teaching. The result is an affordable, accessible, high-quality series of videotape or audiotape programs that each come with the appropriate books and suggested readings. 
Now the folks at home don't have to wonder what you've been up to. You can show them. They may not have told you this, but they would give their right arms to have the freedom and the time that you have to explore what Notre Dame can offer. So give a great gift to someone who's house-bound, career-bound or family-bound. Send them on an adventure this Christmas with a great teacher. 
Images of Man in  Dante and Aquinas:  
Shakespeare's Tragedies  The Road to Paradise  
Professor Paul Rathburn  Professor Ralph Mcinerny  
Shakespeare has never failed to move anyone who  What did the cosmos look like to the two greatest  
came to him and listened. In his major tragedies  geniuses of the Middle Ages? St. Thomas Aquinas,  
~Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth and King Lear--the  a Catholic theologian, took on the daunting and '  
greatest dramatist and poet in our language holds  controversial task of relating twelve centuries of  
up a mirror to what is mysterious and  Christian thought and reflection to the rediscovered  
uncontrollable in our lives. Paul Rathburn will  works of ancient Greek philosophers. Dante  
help you see into that mirror-into Shakespeare's  Alighieri, a poet inspired and informed by Aquinas,  
unforgettable and progressive visions of youth,  shaped one of history's most powerful visions of the  
passion, ambition and old age. Some have thought  human condition in The Divine Comedy, a journey  
that these disturbing visions simply end in darkness  through Heaven, Hell and Purgatory. Walk with  
and lack of meaning. Paul proposes that  Ralph Mcinerny as he explores the medieval world,  
Shakespeare is never that simple, that he wrestled  the ideas of Aquinas and the incomparable poetry of  
to the end with issues of fate and flawed humanity.  Dante. You will come back from Paradise a different person.  
Professor Rathburn holds degrees in both Theology and English and has taught drama at  Ralph Mcinerny is the Michael P. Grace Professor of Medieval Philosophy, Director of the  
Notre Dame since 1966. He is a Sheedy Award winner for outstanding teaching in Arts  Jacques Maritain Center, and former Director of the Medieval Institute. At Notre Dame  
and Letters, and our students cannot find enough places in his courses. An expert on  since 1955, he is perhaps as well known for his "Father Dowling" mysteries as for his  
filmed versions of Shakespeare's plays, he offers invaluable advice on the films you will  prolific scholarship and sparkling teaching. He has delighted audiences as a guest lecturer  
want to track down and watch to experience the Bard at his most powerful. (Four  at over 50 other colleges and universities. (Ten lectures on audiotape plus the text of  
lectures on videotape plus a text of the four plays.)  Dante's Divine Comedy.)  



The American Constitution Pascal and the Meaning of Life and the People Who Made It 
Professor Thomas Morris Professor Walter F: "Jack" Pratt, Jr. 
Ever wish you had an inside track on the meaning of In the summer of 1787, a remarkable collection of life? So did Blaise Pascal. A superb scientist and statesmen gathered to launch the greatest free mathematician, Pascal gave us the first calculating deliberation about self-government in history. Out machine, the first theory of probability and the first of it came the Constitution ofthe United States . system of public transportation. Then at age 31, The delegates faced an almost impossible task: famous throughout Europe, he experienced a forging consensus on a dramatically new form of sudden, startling and thorough conversion of life. government for the fragmented former colonies. For the next eight years until his death, he thought Jack Pratt invites you to look in on their and wrote intensely on the alternatives human deliberations, recalling who these men were, what beings face as they try to answer (or avoid!) ultimate initially divided them and what ultimately brought questions. Tom Morris will introduce you to them together. Then he explores the five Supreme Pascal's famous Pensees-provocative, eloquent, 

Court decisions that have most influenced our  urgent, deeply personal. Why should anyone wager  
interpretation of their work. What was at stake in each constitutional crisis, and why did  that there is a God? How far is thinking about God going to get you? What is it that really  
the justices rule as they did? Not only will you meet great Amerians here, you will come  drives the human heart? How can you know? Get some unexpected and extremely  
to grips with the essence of our political experience. (Ten lectures on audiotape, plus  intriguing answers here. (Four lectures on video plus the text of Pascal's Pensees.  
text of The Federalist Papers and the Constitution.)  
Tom Morris has electrified student audiences ever since he took his Ph.D from Yale and  
A legal historian, Jack Pratt is Associate Dean of Notre Dame's Law School, and holds  started lecturing at Notre Dame in 1981. Winner of numerous teaching awards, Tom has  
his D.Phil in Politics from Oxford and his J.D. from Yale.  In 1978-79, he was  Law  been featured on The Learning Channel and speaks to rave reviews from adult audiences  
Clerk to Chief Justice Warren E. Burger. His talks on the Constitution have drawn some  across the country.  He is one of Notre Dame's most popular teachers with both students  
of the highest ratings at the last two summer Elderhostel series on Notre Dame's campus.  and alumni groups.  

Quantity Course 
Pascal and the Meaning of Life 
The Constitution and the People Who Made It 
Dante and Aquinas: Road to Paradise Images of Man in Shakespeare's Tragedies 
$89.00 First course 
+ 
_courses @ $69.00 each =Total Amount for Courses 

+ 
Add $5/course for shipping =Total Amount Remitted 


Book 
Pascal's Pensees 
Federalist Papers & The Constitution 
The Divine Comedy 
The Great Tragedies 
0  Enclosed is my check  
0  Please charge my credit card:  
0  Amex 0  VISA 0  M/C  

Credit Card # 
Expiration Date_/_ Signature 

How to Order Forfastest service, call toll-free 1-800-955-8118 (ask for ext. 20) to put your order on VISA, M/C or American Express. Or mail in this form and make your check payable to Notre Dame Great Teachers Series, do Fulfillment Center, 1681 Glens Drive, Florence, KY 41042.  ...  
One course is $89.00, with additional courses only $69.00 each. (This discount applies whether you order different courses or multiple copies of the same course. All courses ordered before Dec. 12 will be shipped in time for Christmas.) Ship my order to: /.Asso~. Name  - 
4. g·-~  Address  

City, State, Zip 
---~ 

page 18 The Observer Thursday, November 5, 1992 
Duke hopes. media blitz is over 

DURHAM, N.C. (AP)-Are people tired Qf seeing Duke win? 
Coach Mike Krzyzewski might think so. 
Krzyzewski said Wednesday he was sensitive to people al­ways writing about Duke win­ning. 
"That's part of sport," he said. "When any team in any sport wins at a high level for an extended period of time, people who are in that sport want to see somed"ne else. I don't nec­essarily go along with that, but I don't mind people thinking that and saying that because it's natural." 
Krzyzewski, whose teams have won two straight NCAA championships and been to six Final Fours in the past seven seasons, hopes some of the media blitz that last year's team endured subsides. 
"We tried to make last year a normal year in the confines of our team," he said. "Overall, I think that's one of the reasons we won. There has been a little less this year because most people would not think a pro­gram could win three in a row. 
"There are more teams ca­pable of winning the national championship this year than last year. Last year, we had the same team coming back. There should have been a lot of atten­tion but we handled it prop­erly." 
Duke is still talented, with re­turning starters Bobby Hurley, Grant Hill and Thomas Hill, but gone from last year's 34-2 team is national player of the year Christian Laettner and emotional leader Brian Davis. 
Krzyzewski said it would be "neat" to be the first team to win three straight NCAA bas­ketball titles since UCLA won seven in a row from 1967-73. 

"But I'm realistic about it," he said. "We have a longer way to develop than we did last year. I'm not saying that's bad, I'm just saying we have a longer way to develop." 
Duke's schedule also is tough. In addition to playing an always challenging Atlantic Coast Con­ference schedule, the Blue Devils have home games against preseason favorite Michigan, Oklahoma, Iowa and UCLA. 
"We are not afraid of playing anybody," Krzyzewski said. "We feel like we have a chance to win but we probably have more of a chance to lose with this team than last year's team. 
"I knew my team from the start last year. My goal now is to get to know my team and what they are capable of do­ing." 
r-----------~~~~~~~~----~~~~~~~--~~--------------------~
'KarrO'S won't dWell·;:::on award 
-
AP File Photo 

Can Grant Hill and the rest of the Duke Blue Devils win a third 
• consecutive NCAA basketball championship this season? 
Hoops ticket sales booming 
Special to the Observer and a half sections of bleachers. Approximately 1400 season 
With only one day remaining tickets have been sold so far, for freshmen to purchase men's which is a 40 percent increase basketball season tickets, here's from the same time last year. an update on the sales so far. About 350 seats on the east 
The lower arena sections al­end (the new student section lotted to students sold out to beginning this year) will be seniors and juniors, the first available to freshmen today. time that has happened in six Any surplus demand will be al­years. located to the sections on the 
Sophomores purchased two west end. 

Featuring the Best In College/Alternative Music 
$3.00 COVER CHARGE w/Student 1.0. 
24 hour LIVE Music HOTLINE-2n-1727 
········"·~OS AN. 
.•············.. ..
Karros d in:terid to dwell 
on his National League :Rookie 
of the Year award. 
Karros. barely considered 
keeper by Jhe< Los Angeles 
Dodgers heading into spring 
training, eventually won the 
first base Job· arid went on to 
have an outstanding year, hit­
ting .257 with 20 homers and 
88 RBis. 
He says all that's nice. but one 
season isn't a career. 
"It keeps you going, knowing 
guys come and go in this game. 
The trick is not getting there, 
but staying, having some 
longevity. I've orily played one 
year and my goal is to play a 
number ofyears, 
"What I dhllast year doesn't matter now; it's what· I do in 1993;' Karros said Tuesday in a conference. call from Japan~; where he is touring with a ma.; jor leagu~ a.ll-star team. 
Karros was named first on 22 
Lame 
continued from page 20 
These teams are the most formidable Notre Dame has closed with since the 1989 sea­son, when Holtz, his team ranked first in the nation, had to prepare for Penn State and Miami on consecutive weeks. 
That year, the Irish had a national championship to shoot 
-
of the 24 ballots'''arld received ll6 poi'Pts'6v~tall rl'l>rn•the BasebaiLWrJters As$pciation Qf Amerka. Montreal outfielder Moises Alott wa$ second Witb 30 points. followed by Pitts" burgh knu~kleb~ller .Tim Wakefield with two first-place votes and 29 ·points. 
Karros had been considered the favorite for the award. 
"1 wasn't surprised but I'm defmitely happy.~ he said. "It's been something that's been talked about the last few months and it's P.11ally done. It reflects the season I had, but I'd exchange it for our club to have been ina pennantrace." 
The Dodgers were awful in 1992, finish1ng63~99 in the NL West. Injuries-tp. Darryl Straw• berry and Eric Davis gave Kar~ rosa chance to bit fourth. 
Manager T!lmtnY Lasorda, in his . office at Dodger Stadium, was on the line during the con~ farenee call from. Ja.pan and 
for. In 1992, they do not. 
With three tough games re­maining, the Irish could con­ceivably end up with a 6-4-1 regular season record. On the other hand, if Holtz leads his troops to three straight wins, Notre Dame will finish with a 9­1-1 record and a shot at a top three finish in the polls. 
With performance and voter confidence like that, Notre Dame would never again be known as a late-season lame duck. 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 

Congratulations to the Jenista Family who won $100.00 at last weekend's hockey game. Don't miss out on your chance to win great prizes at the upcoming events!! 
~~ 

said: ''If there's anybody who deserves something good hap­peni11g to him, it's this young man. I saw him come from the start of spring training and what he bas accomplished." 
Karros was hanging on with the organization by a thread when he reported last spring. 
He had been far less than im­pressive in his September 1991 debut with the Dodgers, then had a miserable winter in Venezuela. 
"I was 1~for-14 after they called me up in September, then I hit a buck and change (.113} in Venezuela," he re­called. 
''His stock really dropped with the guys that saw him," La· sorda said. "But when we took him to spring training, we knew the things we had to work with him on and we spent a lot of time with him. He spent alnt of hours and he overcame 
bls. defieiencles,~ 
~ 00~

ft...,. ~ D~ ~0 0 I 
,~,~«~ ~o~rt>"? "'"' n y
"" ~ o• 

,<->~~~ 50~ for 
~~ 

<-PBeverages 
or a game of darts 
•available 7 nights a week 
•21 ank,o to enter & no lees 
1 mile east of campus 

 
Thursday, Nov. 5, 7:30 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium oF1J1JjfKISfAN From Russia! The Uzbekl State Chamber Orchestra Ti~kets: $16/$12 $8 students A Gosconcert presentation  Fri.-Sat., Nov. 13-14,8 p.m. Sun., Nov.I5, 7:30p.m., The Little Theatre Saint Mary's Department of Communication, Dance & Theatre and Department of Music presents An Evening of PERA 'ANCE Tick£ts $6/$5, Students $3  
Tickets for events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office. located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. Saint Ma~'s Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME·INDIANA  



.--~---------------~---~----­
Today
II. 


Thursday, November 5, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY lARSON 


11-IA-1 BEING! 1HE CASE:, 1"1M

HHLOI &.£N'Il£ READal. 
AFRAID :I MUS; RESORT

:r'M SOR R:'l' '1?1 '51\'i :r 
To SLAP:Silc.J<.CDUt..DN'T COMG -UP WITH AN INTf:LLIG!GNT JbKE. 


~ TWA'I'S STRIP. 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Wtl.NT TO ll<ADE 
~N~'tliG\1:5. 
CALVIN' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Seethe 38 Native quarter of 
1 Dogged 
Algiers

9 Analyzed 
39 Fibber

grammatically 
41 Inlet

15 Suggests an 
43 Duration of office 

add1t1onal 
44 Organism

mean1ng 
needing air to 

16 One-celled 
eXISt

an1mal 
47 U.S.S.R

17 He may have a lot to th1nk about mountain range 19 Wimbledon calls 50 Arikara 20 Favonte 51 Periodical 21 Actor 1n periodical "Notorious" contributor 22 Grounded b1rd 54 "Exodus" hero 25 A descendant of ·55 Gangster's BenJamin getaway 27 Sort of sorter 56 Resource 36 Adherent 60 Energy 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


BILL WATIERSON 
0\.\,GRoSS. taRGET IT 1\1~\ ~ 1-()T I oo~n t.'-1£.~ ~lL~ W))St. W~TM'{ 
LOll.~. IT OWN L\.Jt-(}1 LOOK.S l\Kt.. 1\Ni MQR£. ~G\; SALAIJ. 
63 Kiln 67 Fabric-ator? 71 Valuable fur 72Wealth 73 Hot coals 74 Timidity 
DOWN 
1 Eye: Comb. form 2 Indian physicist 1858-1937 
3 Device for collecting plankton 
4 Literature 
Nobelist 1928 5 Bird in a fable 6-lossfor 
words 7 U. of Md. athlete 8 To live, to Livy 9 Bosom buddy 
1o"-,the Beautiful" 11 Sub chaser 

DOMINO'S PIZZA  
Today's Soecial: 1 Large Thin--Crust Pizza Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any Call Now oilier offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to eruoure safe driving. OurND 271..0300 drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.SMC 289..0033  



13lsraeli statesman 14 Rather and 

McGrew 32 D-day craft 49 Novelist Levin 62 Condiment in 18 Suffix with axiom 33Weimar 52 Dog bites Calabria 23 Kind of cap Republic's first 
53 Daughter of 64 Boleyn or 
24 Sci-fi sky president Bancroft
Cymbelinesighting 34 Street show 56 Summit 65 Min. 
26 Fun rm. 35 Official language components57 Big "bang" in27 Rice dish of Cambodia bridge 66 Very, in Vichy28 Willow 40 Future fish 58 European apple 68 U.S.NA grad29 Gape 42 Pub potation 30 Balsam, e.g. 45 Babble 

59 Major follower 69 "Sweet-" of 31 Sacro 46 Corn unit 61 King Hadad's song attachment 48 Boring tool land 10 Kind 

Sports 

page 20 
ROLANDO 
DEAGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 
Irish could be lame ducks as season ends 
George Bush has entered an 
awkward stage of his presidency. 
He's not George the leader of the free 
world anymore. Not really. He's not 
George the leader of the American 
people. Not by a long shot. 
He's a lame duck. And a lame duck is 
nothing but a lame duck. Lame ducks 
can't get anything done. 
After a few weeks of beating up on 
substandard competition, Lou Holtz's 
football team may realize this week 
that it is also a lame duck. Without a 
national championship to shoot for, and 
seven teams with superior records 
ahead of them in the polls, the Irish 
may just do another one of their 
infamous late-season flops. 
You remember last season, when 
Notre Dame seemed to decide at 
halftime of its game against Tennessee 
that a national championship was a 
lost cause. The Irish waddled to a 35­
34 loss to the Volunteers and got 
quacked again the next week in a 35­
13 blowout against Penn State. 
Notre Dame, as an independent, has 
nothing to shoot for once that number 
"1" shows up in the loss column. There 
is no conference title that can drive the 
Irish to greater heights. Holtz's team 
has one real goal: the national 
championship. 
This year, that goal has been far out 
of reach since Notre Dame's 33-16 loss 
to Stanford. Since then, the Irish have 
played such ducky opponents as Navy, 
Brigham Young and Pitt. Powers when 
scheduled by the Irish football office, 
these rivals would have faced a stiff 
challenge from Notre Dame's scout 
team. The Irish starters were going 
through the proverbial motions in 
registering routs over the all three 
teams. 
But this week, the picture changes, 
as the Irish face Boston College. The 
Eagles are ranked ninth. Notre Dame is 
ranked eighth. The Catholic kids at BC 
are ready to smash Notre Dame. Their 
football team feels the same way. 
Could the Eagles be this year's 
Tennessee? Favored by 10 points (gulp) 
going in, will Notre Dame play as 
inconsistently as it did last season 
against the Volunteers? 
The next week, the Irish host Penn 
State. The Nittany Lions have fallen on 
hard times of late, dropping to No. 21 
in the Associated Press poll. But Penn 
State is always pumped to play the 
Irish, and Joe Paterno has downed Lou 
Holtz the last two seasons. 
Two weeks later, Notre Dame heads 
west for its season finale against 
Southern Cal. But these Trojans are not 
the same mediocre team from a 
mediocre conference that Notre Dame 
has played the last two seasons. The 
1992 edition of the Pac-10 has made 
USC look like the Trojans of old. 
see LAME/page 18 
'liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
•
INSIDE SPORTS 

q 
The Observer/Jake Peters Sophomore Tim Oates will lead the Irish soccer team against Loyola in the MCC tournament tonight. 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer · 
When talking to Notre Dame women's soccer players Ragen Coyne, Michelle McCarthy and Rosella Guerrero one couldn't help but notice a few similari­ties. In fact it wouldn't be outrageous to mistake the trio for sisters. 
Their identical heights (5'3"), small stature and similar long brown hair are the obvious things, but this trio resembles each other in character as much as in appearance. A charismatic and energetic personality is shared by all three. 
"We've all been mistaken for each other before," said Coyne. "I guess at times we do look alike." 
On the stat sheet that is very much the truth. Guerrero, McCarthy and Coyne ranked first, second and fifth in scoring over the past season, and accounted for ten of Notre Dame's thirteen game­winning goals. 
Opposing coaches also have a hard time deciphering between the three. They have found it easier to put them under one label, lethal. 
"Those three have added so much to our team," said Notre Dame coach Chris Petrucelli. "Their overall soccer ability raises the level of the team." 
Quickness, ball-handling, and scoring are characteristics shared by all three, but each stands out in a particular area. 
Teams got a look at Guerrero's specialty in the first game of the season. In her first collegiate start, the California native scored three goals in a 4-3 loss to 
N · C. State
"I was really nervous, and I didn't know what to expect," said Guerrero, the most outspoken of the trio. "I just tried to go out and play my best." 
Her best was unbelievable, and it continued to be for the entire season. She was the scorer that Petrucelli needed to replace Stephanie Porter, last year's leading scorer who fell to injury late last season. 
"Rosella was our scorer this year," said Petrucelli. "Who would have known she 
Thursday, November 5, 1992 

Men's soccer begins quest for conference title against Loyola 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
It has been a season full of peaks and valleys, but the toughest climb lies ahead for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
The Irish travel to Indianapolis today to begin their quest for a Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship. 
Through all the ups and downs of the 9-6-2 season, the team has remained focused on winning the MCC tournament and capturing the automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
"It has been a bizarre season," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "We're not looking for excuses, but we've had some bad ealls that cost us some games. The only three games we truly felt we lost were to UCLA, Duke and Indiana." 
Despite those losses, they proved that they eould play with the nation's best teams, but in losses to Vanderbilt and Loyola they also proved that they could be vulnerable against lesser competition. 
. They have also been vulnerable to some questionable calls. In the MCC finale last week against Butler, senior Brendan Dillmann launched a shot from 30 yards out in the final seconds of overtime. On film, the shot appears to cross the goal line before time expires, but the referee didn't see it that way and the Irish had to settle for a 1-1 tie. 
,.... 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Michelle McCarthy's 27 points and five game winning goals helped lead the women's 
But the tumultuous regular season is history now, and their main goal-an NCAA tournament bid-is still within reach. 
"The wins and losses aren't important," Berticelli explained. "Our main concern was to keep improving and peak at the end of the season, and I think everybody is moving in the right direction." 
It hasn't always been that way. After an up and down month of October, the team had a two-hour meeting to iron out some of the inconsistencies that plagued them. 
"We've had to face some unusual circumstances this season, but I told the team that we have to grow from that ad­versity," Berticelli said. "It is impossible to predict what will happen in the tournament, but we will be ready to play." 
They will have to be r.eady tonight if they hope to avenge their regular season loss to the Ramblers. 
But there is much more than revenge on Notre Dame's mind this week. They are determined to be the first Irish team since 1987 to reach the NCAA tournament. 

Notre Dame's lethal look-alikes 
Women's soccer armed with explosive trio of freshmen 
soccer to a 13-5-1 finish in 1992. 
would be the scorer she has become?" 
In high school, Guerrero was considered one of the finest players in talent-rieh California. She chose to go to Notre Dame after weighing her options and realizing her best option was in South Bend. 
"I wanted to get out of California, and Notre Dame had good aeademics and a promising team," said Guerrero. 
"Promising" is a good term to describe the eareer of Coyne as she entered Notre Dame in August. After leading her under-17 club team to the national championship as a senior, Coyne entered the University as one of the most highly touted high school seniors in the country. 
"Along with Miehelle, Ragen was one of the finest high sehool seniors in the 
country," said Petrucelli. "I expected a 
lot from her going into the year." 
She didn't disappoint. The Michigan native lead the team in assists. and also played aggressive defensive in the mid­field. Coyne also appears the most physical of the three, often challenging larger players for balls in the air. 
"Ragen is sort of a jack of all trades," said Petrucelli. "She can do it all. She scores and can handle the ball well." 
McCarthy is the only member of the trio who could be considered soft­spoken, but her style of play speaks 

'loudly. 
As the season wound down, and the games became more critical, Petrucelli insisted that the ball be handled by Me-
see LETHAUpage 16 





