The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 1 SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND freshman class boasts more women than ever 
Pangborn returns as female dorm 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
The staff and new residents of Pangborn Hall are looking for­ward to "starting the year with an open attitude," said Rector Cathy Lohmuller, after the dorm was converted from a men's to a women's dorm this summer. 
Among the 187 women moving into the dorm this week are 102 freshmen, 40 transfer students and 37 upperclassmen moving from other halls. 
"We would like the opportu­nity to establish ourselves," she said. Doing that will involve overcoming the difficulties of beginning a new tradition as a female dorm. 
Some men who lived in Pangborn last year have come through the dorm in recent weeks, and Lohmuller said she expects "a whole spectrum of attitudes about the change" and wants to be sensitive to those feelings. 
Resident Assistant Nicole Lamborne said some men who lived in Pangborn last year don't blame the new residents, but are disappointed about the changes. 
"It didn't look like their dorm anymore," she added. hall this year, said Lohmuller. help from other rectors getting 

Some former residents now Lohmuller, who served as acclimated to the job. She has living in Sorin said they want to assistant rector in Lyons Hall in come back and plan with the 1990-91, said she has received see PANGBORN I page 4 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
Distinguished as the 20th co­educational class at Notre Dame, this year's freshman class is marked by a seven per­cent increase in the number of women, according to Admis­sions Director Kevin Rooney. 
As a result of a new gender­blind admissions process, 44 percent of an estimated 1885 incoming freshman are women, Rooney said. 
"No decision this year was influenced by the gender of the applicant," he added. 
The class of 1996 is also the largest class entering the Uni­versity, he said. About 7700 students applied for admission, down about 500 from last year, and 3800 were admitted. 
Academically, this is "one of the four or five strongest enter­ing classes we've ever had," Rooney added. 
Eighty percent ranked in the top 10 percent of their graduat­ing class, and 39 percent were ranked among the five top stu­dents of their class. The aver­age freshman scored 1210 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test. 
Rooney said minorities make up 14 percent of the incoming class, including six percent Hispanic students, four perc(lnt Asian American, three percent African American and less than one percent Native American. 
While the overall number of minority applications and in-
see ND I page 7 


New-look campus greets 


SMC welcomes new freshmen 
Rowan said. The new students tion and diversity of the class is Saint Mary's Editor "are clearly directed toward slightly higher than last year. 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR students to new semester 
By JOHN ROCK construction that went on
majors." Thirty-six states are repre­From an applicant pool of sented with 71 percent from the Managing Editor include: 
•The original limestone statue
The 400 incoming freshmen 1000 women, 750 were ac­Midwest, seven percent from Construction work was a fa­at Saint Mary's make up a cepted. Rowan said she is the South, nine percent Middle miliar site in and around cam­of Mary that stood at the main "dynamic class," including "thrilled" that the applicant States, five percent West, four pus this summer as crews gate was replicated and re­three times as many valedicto­pool was up this year from last percent Southwest, three worked to complete projects placed. The original was put in rians and salutatorians than and the class contains 15 more percent Northeast. before students returned. the front of the DeBartolo build­
last year, according to Mary students than planned. International students com­ing, he said.
The largest project
Ann Rowan, director of admis­Fifty-two percent of the stu­prise one percent of the class, undertaken was the completion •Sidewalks were poured in 
sions. dents came to Saint Mary's from coming from Bangladesh, front of South Dining Hall at the
of the DeBartolo Classroom
The class has already distin­private schools and 48 percent Dominican Republic, Italy, request of the administration,Facility and construction of itsguished itself because "it seems came from public schools. 
see SMC I page 7 he said. Steps were also put in
to be very ready for college," Both the geographic distribu-accompanying quadrangle. 
between Morrissey and Lyons
The DeBartolo building was declared "substantially com­halls.
Orientation Weekend Schedule of Events 

plete" in the middle of July, said •Sand volleyball courts were 9 p.m. Carnival sponsored by student government_ 
Michael Smith, director of built behind Lyons Hall and in
Notre Dame 
ND and Saint !Mary's freshmen invited. J.A.c.c•. 

facilities engineering. Minor front of Lewis Hall. 
arena. 

•Old Juniper road was resur­work is still going on, but the
Saturday 
faced and curbs constructed
building is ready to open. 
to 3 p.m. Welcome ceremony, Academic Saint Mary's 
To construct the quad, Dorr from the Notre Dame Fire
perspective from provost and deans, parent 
Station to the Hesburgh Library. 
road was closed, removed and
orientation and general advisory session for first­year students. J.A.C.C Saturday 
replaced by sidewalks. Trees •Planner Hall was remodeled, which included painting, car­
and sod will soon be planted to
to 6 p.m. DeBartolo Classroom Building 1 p.m. Presentation: "Social Life at a Women's 
peting, fixing the shower rooms
Information Fair on University programs and College." O'Laughlin Auditorium. _ . . complete the walking area, he said. and ceiling repairs. 
services. J.A.C.C. 1 p.m. Presentation: "Transfer Student Soc1al 
•Pangborn Hall underwent
At the far end of the quad,7 & 9:30 p.m. Movies and question period for 2 to 3:30 p.m. College Open House. Angela Athie 
6 p.m. Picnic. Ubrary Green. Survival Session." Little Theatre. 
construction will continue on a changes in toilet fixtures in the 
parents with Student Orientation Committee Facility. 
rest rooms and was made Members. Washington Hall. 8:30 p.m. Saint Mary's Moonlight Basher/Mixer 
site feature, Smith said. The 
wheelchair accessible. A rampSesquicentennial Commons are 
Haggar Terrace. ­

was also constructed outsideto be built just south of 
10:30 p.m. fto 1 a.m. Escorts leave NO the hall.
Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering.
SUnday administration building every half hour. 
•Cavanaugh's chapel was ren­
It will be a column structure
10 a.m. Eucharistic liturgy. J.A.C.C. 
ovated.
with fountains, a place for
10;30 a.m. Mass for graduate students and farriifies. 
•The field for the new
people to gather, he said. 
Fischer Hall Community.Center. SUnday 
baseball stadium was
11:30 a.m. Picnic for freshman and parents. J.A.C.C. 9:30 a.m. Opening of school liturgy. Angela Athleti The main circle also had to be 
completed and the university
12:15 to 1 p.m. Introduction to student activities. Facility. modified, he said. It was 
will soon award the contract for
JJtC.C. 4:45 • 6 p;m. Dinner and discourse~ Oiningfiall. widened to allow vehicles to 
1
:30 p.m. Reception for minority students and 9 p.m. Cruise. Stepan Center: turn around, since traffic can the stadium. The new stadium parents. Monogram Room, J.A.C.C. 10:30 p.m. t:o 1 a.m. Escorts leave N no longer be diverted down is to be built south of the 

1:30 
& 2:30 p.m. Campus tours. Steps of administration building every half hour. Dorr road. football practice field and east dministration Building. of the J.A.C.C.


According to Smith, other 





Saturday, August 22, 1992 
FORECAST: 
Mostly sunny Saturday with highs 80 to 85. Partly cloudy Sunday with lows in the middle 60s and highs in the middle 80s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

r 
I 
' 
I I 
I 
'
I 
' 
1 
I t 
I 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

You've arrived, but the real trip has just begun 
It took 18 years and 13 hours in a Plymouth Voyager to get here, but you finally arrived. (Graduate and transfer students, adjust years accordingly.) 


In less than 48 hours  
your parental units will be  MONICA YANT  
back on the road trying to find the Neil Diamond  Ed" . Ch" t 19!tor-In­ 

tapes you hid, your high school image will be shed in favor of inflated stories about SAT scores and athletic accomplishments and you'll be resting comfortably in your 9 ft. by 13 ft. dorm room with three other future Big Eight accountant-types looking for the meaning of life and 50-yard line seats to the Michigan game. 
You've hit the big time, or so they say. And soon you'll find out that all of the people who told you the hard part was over were lying like a rug. 
Because your new roommate is, or at least appears to be, the princess of suburban Chicago. She brought enough jewelry and dry cleanable clothes to outfit your dorm, and her question about where to put the facial machine and beauty pageant tiaras seems like just the beginning of a very long bad dieam. 
The group of guys you met last night were all named Mike, which you assume will make life confusing when they all start calling to ask you to their first SYR. But they're at a loss too­until an RA starts branding them with nicknames like Buttface and Slut that won't seem nearly as funny in front of their parish priest at the alter. 
Guys, your room is great. For a closet. The seniors in your section tell you that the best way to maximize space is for one of you to sleep on the floor under the bed. Their claustrophobia, glazed eyes and short stature tell you the experience made a lasting impression that you might want to avoid. 
The Romans (and Robin Williams) had a great way of dealing with traumatic experiences like going to college in South Bend, even though the Romans were in Rome and probably didn't know where South Bend was or why someone would want to go to college here. "Carpe Diem," they'd say. 
(Bobby McFerrin coined a modern day version of the famous call to arms in his "Don't worry, be happy" song, albeit an annoying one.) 
Take their advice, and no one else's. Be a freshman, a freshwoman, or a freshperson­the option and pseudonym are your choice. (Again, graduate students and transfers: adjust accordingly.) Be confused, scared or livid. Separately or all at once. 
Be wide-eyed and stupid. Ask questions. Ponder the answers, then ignore them if you so desire. 
The time to be angst-ridden will come faster than you think. Navy blue interviewing suits, engagement rings and GRE exams are just around the corner. 
The Romans and McFerrin have a point. You've got today. Run with it. And if you're lucky, it won't be half the hassle. 
Today's Staff: 
News: David Kinney Frank Rivera  Systems: Pat Barth  
Sports: Mike Scrudato Jenny Martin  Production: Cynthia Ehrhardt Melissa Cusack  
Accent: Jeanne Blasi  Lab Tech: Jake Peters  
Viewpoint: Jeanne Blasi  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

Forcast for noon Saturday, August 22 
60s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Pressure  
H  L  g  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 

A'fi~-B'ftt~s admissions position 
• -Edward Augustine, a 1987 alumnus, has been named assistant dean of graduate admissions at Notre Dame. Augustine will focus pri­marily on the recruitment and retention of minority students in the graduate school, according to Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and re­search. A graduate of the Program of Liberal Studies, he received a master's degree from New York Univer­sity, where he later served as assistant director of admissions and financial aid for the university's grad­uate school of arts and sciences. 
No~BW&lWfsors Pan Am program
• -The Pan American Institute for Political Studies, a special international program, attracted 85 students from six nations to courses in Notre Dame's summer session. The program, established in 1988 by John Evans, professor of English at Arizona State University, is designed to help students from diverse nations appreciate each other's cultures and societies and to enhance understanding of the cultural challenges faced by Christians in the modern world. This year's program consisted of three lecture courses on political theory, literature and philosophy taught by Gerhardt Niemeyer, professor emeritus of government at Notre Dame, Professor Evans, and Kerry Koller, a faculty member of South Bend's Trinity School. 
OF INTEREST 

• New graduate students, transfer and readmitted students and students returning from leaves of absence are scheduled to enroll Friday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the J.A.C.C. Continuing students and freshman will enroll Monday -freshmen on the concourse of the 
J.A.C.C. from 8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., and continuing students in the north dome of the J.A.C.C. from 8:30 a.m. to 3:15p.m. 
• Auditions for "Ah, Wilderness!" will be held by ND Communication and Theatre on August 26 and 27 at Washington Hall. Sign up at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall or call 239-5134 for information. 
MARKET UPDATE 


SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
• 
The Observer news department is looking for new reporters. If interested, come to the office of The Observer on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center weekdays between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. or call 239-5303. 

• 
Of Interests are for one-time, free events of general interest to the public. The deadline for entries is 1 p.m. on the day before publication.To contribute, come to the office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or call 239-5303. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1911: The Mona Lisa was stolen from the Louvre in Paris, France. It was recovered two years later. 

• 
In 1934: AI Capone was jailed at Alcatraz. 

• 
In 1972: President Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew are renominated at the Republican convention in Miami. 

• 
In 1954: Two U.S. icebreakers complete the first trip through the Northwest Passage, Atlantic to Pacific Oceans. 

• 
In 1983: Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos denied rumors that he was responsible for the assassination of Benigno Aquino, considered Marcos' main political rival. 


City 
Athens Atlanta Bogota Boston Cairo Charlotte Chicago Cleveland Dallas Detroit Indianapolis Jerusalem London Los Angeles Madrid Minneapolis Moscow Nashville New York Paris Philadelphia Rome Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington 


H L 
95 73 
84 70 70 50 78 78 91 70 85 68 76 49 72 48 86 67 76 52 77 55 88 68 72 57 79 67 88 68 80 64 64 52 85 65 78 57 75 63 80 61 91 70 75 52 77 51 84 75 80 59 

~j 
I I 
Saturday, August 22, 1992 The Observer 
ND admits 160 transfers, readmits 30; 
Housing offered to half of students on waiting list 
BY DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame admitted 160 transfer students and re-admit­ted 30 students this year, ac­cording to Kevin Rooney, direc­tor of admissions. 
The number, although down from last year, is in keeping with recent years, he said. The University received 450 transfer applications and 60 re-ad­mittance applications. 
Transfer students must be sophomores or juniors with at least a 3.0 grade point average. Since they must designate a specific college when applying, admission decisions are made by the deans of each college on the basis of the number of openings and the quality and quantity of applicants, said Rooney. 
Eighty students were admit­ted in the College of Business, 
Have a great day Sarah! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and David 

45 in the College of Arts and 
Letters, 20 in the College of 
Engineering, 30 in the College 
of Science and 15 into the 
Architecture Department. 

Most students re-applying to 
the University are individuals 
who withdrew to attend the 
foreign studies programs spon­
sored by other universities, said 
Rooney. Others seeking re­
admittance withdrew for 
academic and financial reasons. 
Not all of the students have housing, according to Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences. All female transfers have been offered housing, but student residences has not be­gun offering rooms to the 84 male transfers on the waiting list. 
Reinebold said that it is difli­cult to predict how many trans­fer students will eventually re­ceive housing, because the number of available rooms is not stable. Once all students re­turn, the office will be able to determine how many rooms remain. 
Transfer students not receiv­ing housing from the University must look for off-campus residence, she said. 




Attention Students! 
NBD Bank has 

you need! 
• 
No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •Loans 

•Computer 
Banking with NBD Express •AlMs 

• 
Extended Banking Hours 


Visit N BD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 

NBD Bank 18083 S.R. 23 North 273-1280 
Gl
-­
LEND!ft
Member FDIC 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Poster perfect 

Saint Mary's freshman Kelly Kilmer and Indiana high school student Molly Schleeter look over posters in Le Mans courtyard after arriving on campus yesterday. 
Graduate Student Union sponsors grad orientation 
Special to The Observer 
The Graduate Student Union is sponsoring several events for new graduate students in the next week: 
• University President Father Edward Malloy is among the speakers at an orientation brunch on Monday at 10 a.m. in the Center for Continuing Education's basement dining area. 
Nathan Hatch, dean of the graduate school , Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs and GSU President Mike Kelly will also welcome the students. 
• GSU is providing food, bev­erages and a band at an all graduate student cookout Wednesday from 4 to 8 p.m. at Stepan Field. 
The Observer welcomes all NO and SMC freshmen. 



Campus Ministry is sponsor­ing a cookout for graduate stu­dents on Sept. 3 from 6 to 7:30 
p.m. at the Fischer-O'Hara Grace complex. The event will allow students to visit the new buildings and learn about ser­vices offered by campus min­istry. 
• Graduate students will benefit from professional de­velopment seminars by learning about lecturing and holding seminars. The seminars, to be held Aug. 27 and 31 at the CCE, aim to improve undergraduate education by improving the quality of graduate assistance. 
Other seminars include teaching across gender and cultural differences and assist­ing in laboratories. 
Saint Mary's preschool program starts 
Special to The Observer 
In an effort to improve the 
quality of preschool education 
in the Michiana area, Saint 
Mary's College, Early Childhood 
Development Inc., and WNIT 
Television, have begun a series 
of training sessions for local 
preschool teachers and child 
care operators. 
The Preschool Educational Program Initiative (PEP) will be conducted by the College, ECDC, the on-campus preschool facility for children of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame faculty and staff, and WNIT, the area's public broadcasting outlt~.,i~ association with the Chililren's Television Workshop, creator of PBS' "Sesame Street." 
The initial training sessions were held in July, with more than 30 local preschool educa­tors attending. Additional ses­sions are scheduled for the fall. According to Beckey Thomp­son, educational projects direc­tor for WNIT, CTW plans to use the local effort as a model pro­gram for PEP activities nation­ally. 
----~ ---------------------------------~ 
r-~ 
page 4 The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1992 

Gilman appointed president of Holy Cross College 
Special to The Observer Ohio, for the 1990-91 academic Holy Cross. tion of eight candidates and Fellowship at Princeton Uni­
The Board of Trustees of Holy Cross College has announced the appointment of Brother Richard Gilman as to president of the college. 
Gilman, 48, is currently a doctoral candidate at the Uni­versity of Dayton in Dayton, Ohio. He arrived at Holy Cross in August after attending the General Chapter Meetings of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Le Mans, France. He suc­ceeds Brother Raphael Wilson, who has served as acting president of the college since August 1990. 
Gilman has served in various roles at secondary and post­secondary educational institu­tions. He most recently served as president of Archbishop Hoban High School in Akron, 

Pangborn 
continued from page 1 
also talked about joint projects with other dorms, including Fisher Hall. 
The physical changes to the dorm are "minimal," she said. Although student rooms were left unchanged, several addi­tions make the dorm similar to other female dorms on campus, said Doug Miller, project coor­dinator. 
Among the new features: 
• 
A pool room was converted to a laundry room. 

• 
A kitchenette was installed near Pangborn's social space. 

• 
Bathrooms and showers were redone. 


• year, before pursuing his doc­toral degree. Prior to that, he was president and principal, associate principal and chair­man of the mathematics de­partment at the school. 
During the six years that he 
served as president and princi­
pal, the enrollment at Arch­
bishop Hoban High School in­
creased by 13 percent at a time 
when other Catholic schools in 
the region suffered enrollment 
declines. Gilman also success­
fully increased the endowment 
of the school from some 
$400,000 to over $1.1 million. 
"We are happy to present a man of such talent and insight who will contribute to the growth and development of Holy Cross College," said Brother Thomas Moser, provincial of the Brothers of 
• 
A handicap restroom with a bathtub was built on each floor and a handicap ramp was in­stalled at the front entrance. Miller said this was done to comply with the American Dis­abilities Act, which. requires that all major building renova­tions include revisions to ac­commodate the handicapped. 

• 
All hall carpets were re­placed. 

• 
Stops were placed on ground floor windows for added security. 

• 
Crews replaced piping in the hall. 


Some of the renovation was not necessary for th~ conver­sion to a women's dorm but for the good of the building, Miller said. 

Gilman served for eight years in Africa. Gilman taught at St. John's school in Sekondi, Ghana, from 1971-74, where he also headed the Candidacy Program for the District of West Africa, responsible for the direction and spiritual forma­
three temporarily professed religious. 
He graduated as class valedic­torian from St. Edward's Uni­versity in Austin, Texas, and attended the Harvard Graduate School of Education at Harvard University. He is a recipient of the Woodrow Wilson Institute versity. 
Holy Cross College was founded in 1966 by the Broth­ers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The College offers a two­year liberal arts curriculum leading to an Associate of Arts de~rree. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
International Study Programs 
INVITES YOU TO ATTEND 

A GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION  
WHEN: WHERE: TIME:  SATURDAY, AUGUST 22, 1992 DEBARTOLO CLASSROOM BUILDING, ROOM 4:00 P.M.  101  

Immediately following the general infonnation session, individual sessions for each program will be held.in the following rooms: PROGRAM COORDINATOR ROOM Angers, France Prof. Paul McDowell 131 Dublin, Ireland Dr. Claudia Kselman 113 Frcmantle, Austr.llia Dr. Isabel Charles 136 lnnsbruck, Austria Dr. Klaus Lanzinger 129 Jc1usalcm Mr. Carl Loesch, '90 
Alumnus of Program 108 Maynooth, Ireland Ms. Shari Overdorf 119 (Saint Mary's College) 
Mexico City, Mexico Prof. Angela Borelli 125 Nagoya, Japan Fr. George Minamiki, S.J. 118 Prof. Yuko Nakahama 
Rome, Italy Dr. Peter Checca 120 (Saint Mary's College) Santiago. Chi lc Fr. Timothy Scully. cs.c. llli Toledo, Spam Mr. Tom Halligan, Scm or 126 
Alumnus of Progmm 

Former student par11c1pants will also be on hand to discuss 1hc1r e\pcriences, offer comments and answer quesllons. 

REMINGTON COURT 
Nobody Compares with Sexton 


Ideal For Single Living! 
Dorm Single Uving Living 
D !if Your own kitchen 
D !if Your own microwave !if Your own refrigerator !if Your own bedroom ~ Your own private bath 
~~~~ !if Your own washer/dryer !if Your own large closets !if Your own lake view ~ Your own phone
~~ 

!if Your own alarm system D !if Your own study/TV room D ~ Your own heater/air conditioner 
• To-Your-Door Parking 
• Club House for Football Parties 
• Pool & Jaccuzzi 
• To-Your-Door Mail Delivery 
And So Much More!!! 

Call 255-7777 Today! 
BORN TO ...,.,..~,;w:-~::t~i~~~---­·.$~-%.:~::1 SAIL l-lappy 21st Birthday Chris Have a great Senior Year! Love-Mom, Dad, Mark, Joe, & John  
Welcome Back! Come and see us for our Special Student Offers Haircuts $6.00 52580 U.S. 31 North, South Bend (Formally at Edison and S.R. 23)  

Saturday, August 22, 1992 

Learning to DART 
Andrea Fisk, a junior transfer student from Marquette University, examines her new schedule with her parents outside Niewland Science Hall. 
M 
ake the Midwest's premier news­
paper-the Chicago Tribune-a part 

of your college life and save up to SO"" off the regular newsstand price. Enjoy the convenience of having the Ch1cago Tribune delivered to your residence hall or apartment 
Transmitted via satellite to print1ng s1tes throughout the M1dwest, the Chicago Tribune gives you complete coverage of late-break1ng news and features! 
~ Get spectacular college and pro sports coverage and color photos of the NCAA, Bulls, Bears and morel 
~ EnJOY com1cs, features, mov1e and mus1c rev1ews 
~ Pulitzer Pnze-winn1ng column1sts 
For the best deal, save 50% off the regular newsstand price when you pay 1n advance for 32 weeks of Monday -Saturday delivery for $1.50 per week or daily and Sunday for only $2 25 per week. If you suoscnbe for 16 weeks of daily only, daily and Sunday or Sunday-Dnly service, you'll receive a 45% savings. Credit cards accepted! 
Call TOLL-FREE today and SAVE! 

1·800-TRIBUN 
(1-800-874-2863) 
------------------~-~~ ---~-------, 
The Observer page 5 
Crews improve SMC campus 
BY JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
Security and interior building improvements were the focus of the Saint Mary's building and grounds crew this summer, ac­cording to John Marshall, su­perintendent of buildings and grounds. 
Six new direct-to-security telephones were installed throughout the campus. The new phones were placed on the east end of the Angela Athletic Facility parking lot, outside of Havican Hall, on the south and north ends of Madel eva Hall, on the clubhouse, and at the inter-

Mason named new NACUBO director 
Special to The Observer 
Thomas Mason, vice presi­dent for business affairs at Notre Dame, has been elected to a three-year term as a direc­tor of the National Association of College and University Busi­ness Officers (NACUBO). 
With 2,200 members, NACUBO is American higher education's foremost organiza­tion of business and finance administrators. 

Mason exercises overall con­trol of Notre Dame's fiscal af­fairs, including the annual op­erating budget that now ex­ceeds $300 million; the en­dowment of more than $650 million, 16th largest in Ameri­can higher education; student financial aid _disbursements ap­proaching $50 million; and the annual construction budget of $10-20 million. 
Since Mason's election by the Board of Trustees in 1976, Notre Dame has had 16 con­secutive "in the black" budgets, has remained virtually debt­free, and is one of only nine universities in the nation with a AAA credit rating from Moody's investors service. 
Prior to joining the executive ranks at Notre Dame, Mason had served at the University of Michigan for 10 years in vari­ous financial positions, includ­ing director of financial affairs Cross Hall, Regina Hall, McCandless, and Madeleva ev­ery time it circles the campus throughout the day. 
Other campus improvements include the painting of all the classrooms and music practice rooms in Moreau, and the painting of all resident housing in Holy Cross and Le Mans halls. 
The building and grounds crew ·also repaired concrete around the campus and re­placed the front steps of Moreau and O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
section of Madeleva Drive and the Main Drive. 
The building and grounds crew will continue to work on increasing lighting between Angela Athletic Facility and McCandless Hall, according to Marshall. 
A new shuttle bus shelter was built on the southwest end of Le Mans Hall near Moreau Hall to allow for the new shuttle route. 
According to Dennis Andres, director of special events, the new schedule will modify the erratic route and make it safer and easier for students to ride the shuttle. The new route will make stops at Le Mans, Holy 

Thomas Mason 

of the university's hospital. 
A certified public accountant, Mason received his under­graduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Detroit. 
Active in committee work with NACUBO, Mason most re­cently has served on the Large Universities and Annual Meet­ing committees. 
Study Abroad in Ireland! 
Information Sessions: 
ND Sat. Aug. 22 4:30p.m. Room 119 Debartolo 
Parents and students are welcome. 



Welcomes the Class of '96 
Come by our convenient location in LaFortune Student Center for all of your travel needs. 
~ID~iru ~ID~~nt ra~Ka[~ t~ ~~~~am~ ~Ntl ~~~~ ~nlli Qsm 
Saturday, August 22, 1992

page 6 The Observer 

Prices valid through Saturday, Aug. 29th. 

Wilshire Pla:za 
5610 Grape Road 


Mon. -Sat. lOam -9pm
Mishawaka, IN 
Sun. llam -6pm

Ph. (219) 277-9789 
The Observer

Saturday, August 22, 1992 page? 
continued from page 1 
coming freshmen remains the same as past years, the number of African Americans rep­resented in the incoming class is down for the second consecu­tive year. 
Rooney said the decrease matches an increase in the number of applicants at histori­cally black universities in the U.S., but could also be at­tributed to a lagging economy. 
The geographic distribution of the freshman is identical to last year's class, with the Midwest represented by 40 percent of the students, said Rooney. Of the remaining students: 
• 
Thirty percent come from the Northeast; 

• 
Ten percent from the West; 

• 
Ten percent from the Southeast; 


• Eight percent from the Southwest; and

ND 
• 1\vo percent from U.S. ter­GEOGRAPHIC PROFILE OF 1992 FRESHMEN 
ritories and other countries. 
Despite the increase in the number of students, all fresh­men have received rooms on campus, according to Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences. 
Although freshmen are guar­anteed housing, in recent years the University could not provide rooms to all incoming freshmen immediately, Reinebold said. Some of those students set up rooms in dormitory study lounges until standard rooms were open. 
About 25 percent of the in­coming class are children of alumni, who compete among one another for 22 to 27 per­cent of the positions. "Many of them would have been ac­cepted" without the special consideration, said Rooney. 






Ice Cream 
Now being served at your favorite campus restaurants and 

eateries! 
My Daddy Makes The Best Ice Cream For the ~'1i\NG ~ ~(j of ~ ~ Notre Dame ~ 
Make your dorm room 
or 

apartment LOOK LIKE HOME LARGE SELECTION OF GENTLY USED FURNITURE 
& 
CARPET REMNENTS at our 
Expanded USED FURNITURE DEPT. 
1805 WESTERN AVE. 
Saturday, Aug 22 only' 

Mon-Thur 9 a.m.-7 p.m. 50% off all used furniture Fri 9 a.m.-8 p.m. 
Convinient Shopping Hours: 

Sat 9 a.m.-6 p.m. ..,.:m....m-....m:'-·iti:·-.,~,,.;m ....iill'··i·
r; ....m'-·•1l<'··iti:·,.,:m,,,c;r: 

Sun noon • 5 p.m. 
FURNITURE i RE-STOCKED (

good-­
~L.........,.... ?,~1~ Y_ ..........,:. • 

will....__ Checks & Cash too! 
ing to Rowan. 
Twenty-five minorities en­rolled this year representing 6.2 percent of the freshmen population. Rowan accounts for the six student increase over last year as more student par­ticipation in the Diversification Task Force, an organization Rowan chaired three years ago. 
There are 34 transfer stu­dents, all of whom received on­campus housing. Rowan said she cannot remember any 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Jordan, and the United Kingdom. 
The mean GPA of the SMC first-year student is 3.4 on a 4.0 grade scale and they were ranked in the top 20 percent of their high school graduating classes. These figures are "better than last year," accord-
J)1(£1' 
A Public Service 
e 

Russian engineering academy elects foreign member Michel 
Special to The Observer 
Anthony Michel was elected a foreign member of the Russian Academy of Engineering this summer, an honor underscoring his international reputation in his field. 
The academy's selection of Michel, McCloskey Dean of the College of Engineering, is par­ticularly significant because Soviet and Russian engineers historically have been the world's foremost researchers in stability theory, his research specialty. 
The academy, formed in the Federation of Russia in the wake of the disintegration of the Soviet Union, is the new counterpart to the National Academy of Engineering in the u.s. 
A native of Romania, Michel holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering, a mas­ter's degree in mathematics and a doctorate in electrical freshman or transfer student being denied housing in recent years. 
"We make an effort to give housing to transfers," Rowan explained. "I think they become part of the Saint Mary's com­munity by living on campus." 
Children of alumni account for 18 percent of the class. Rowan said alumni children compete with every other ap­plicant, not only among them­selves. 

Anthony Michel 

engineering from Marquette University. He received a doc­torate in applied mathematics from the Technical University of Graz, Austria. 
With several years of experi­ence in the aerospace industry, Michel taught and conducted research at Iowa State University from 1968-84, when he joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty as professor and chairman of the department of electrical engineering. 
IF!!\ travelmore 
-----~Carlson Travel Network
-
Provides Notre Dame/Saint Mary•s with: 
• 
Guaranteed Best Air Fares 

• 
Personalized Service 

• 
No Waiting In Lines 

• 
Prompt Phone Service 


1723 South Bend Ave. 271-4880 next to the Notre Dame Campus Hagger College Center 284-4758 on Saint Mary•s Campus 



page 8 The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1992 
•

• ~WELCOME WEEKEND '92 





THURSDAY, AUGUST 27TH 
Encino Man SB White Sox vs. Beloit Brewers 7 pm, 9:30 prrt, 12:00 am 7 pm--Coveleski Field • CushingAuditorium FREE 
FREE! 
Tickets at La Fortune Info Desk 

• 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 28TH 

Live at Stonehenge: Rockfest! 4 pm-12:00 am Fieldhouse Mall (Rain Location: Stepan Center) 


Bands scheduled to appear: The Porkchoppers Ryan's Suitcase Victoria's Real Secret XYZ Mfair Dysfunktion Access Denied Katharsis •• •••• 
• Free snow cones, sodas, popcorn, spin art! 
•• SATURDAY, AUGUST 29th 
• •• Beach Party at Stepan Courts 
1 pm-5 pm
•
•
• 
WVFI live remote 

• 
Tie-dyeing


•
•• One ton sundae
•
• Volleyball tournament
•
•
• Giveaways 


SATURDAY/SUNDAY AUGUST 29th/30th 
Comedian Carrot Top as seen on MTV, Showtime Comedy Club Network, Evening at the Improv •• 8 pm Washington Hall •
• Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk
•
•
• 
•
•
• 
•
•

• Sponsored by: Student Activities, Student Union:
•
•

• Board, WVFI, Classes of 1993, 1994 and 1995 : 
• 


~----~ 

-------------------------, 
Viewpoint 
Saturday, August 22, 1992 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edi.tor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ed1tor. Commentanes, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
The following is the Viewpoint Department Policy: 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. Individuals not associated with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community are also welcome to submit, but preference is given to members of the University communities. 
II . All columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems and cartoons submitted to the Viewpoint department become the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for­profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a mem­ber may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in­chief or the permission of the managing editor and the View­point editor. 
III. 
The Viewpoint de­partment reserves the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to the Viewpoint depart­ment. The Observer has no obligation to print commen­taries submitted. Commen­taries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible. 
All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. 
IV. 
V. Commentaries submit­ted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or or­ganization within the same 
SPELUNKER 
Hd, you G!UYS I -rH£Y WANT US To DO ll DoONES &!R'/rtU,-tN 1 
Business Manager Richard Riley 
Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their commentaries ap­pear in print as columnists 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. Authors of all columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems and cartoons must be notifiedw before being published in The Observer. 
VI. 
VII. Only those indi­viduals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organiza­tion's name. In such cases, the primary author of the commen­tary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the or­ganization. 
Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or pub­lications. In exceptions, the author of the previously printed material must give legal consent. Exceptions to this procedure are those organiza­tions of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from tlhis procedure. 
VIII. 
The opinions ex­pressed in the Viewpoint sec­tion are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House edi­torials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regu­lar columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; poems, quotes and car­toons are commentaries. Such status is determined by the 
IX. 
Viewpoint editor in all inci­dences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the Insta House Guidelines are included in the House Edi­torial Policy. 
X. Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries ap­pear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commen­taries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. 
This policy must be approved be the editorial board and can be amended by a ma­jority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not cov­ered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The proce­dures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Observer. 
XI. 
XII. 
No commentaries of any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning and candidate for student government or hall of­fice once the official campaign period has begun for that of­fice. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer re­serves the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor­in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII. 
This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
page 9 


What the Policy Means: 
Drop us a line, if you like. Don't make it too long or we'll chop it. If you're just a long-winded person, write a column. Also, send quotes, an original cartoon, or a verse, which we publish on Thursday. 
Anything you send us becomes ours. 
We don't cater to anonymous opinions. If you believe something enough, you'll put your name on it. We don't have to print anything we get, but we still print lots of it, because we're very open-minded. 
Moynihan award was an affront to the University 
Dear Editor: 
When I was a student at Notre Dame, there was great discus­sion on campus about the na­ture and extent of activities and clubs Notre Dame students should be permitted to pursue. 
Commenting on that discus­sion in a speech at a Met Club Awards Dinner, Father Tom Brennan said, "Notre Dame students should be permitted to do whatever they do well so that when they go out into the world, where they all must go, they may do many things well." 
We have always maintained that the Notre Dame campus should be a place of opportunity and learning. 
We welcome the free expres­sion of all ideas. Notre Dame is a place where ideas can be discussed, challenged and de­bated. It is a place where young minds learn and grow. 
It is a Catholic University. 
But Notre Dame cannot lose sight of its character and ideals. We in the Notre Dame family must never forget who we are and what we stand for.
-

We are Catholic. 
We believe our soul is given by God at conception, that all life is sacred and made in the image and likeness of God. 
We have dedicated ourselves to Christ through our Blessed Mother. "And our hearts forever praise thee Notre Dame, and our hearts forever love thee Notre Dame." 
How then can we as a Uni­versity create an award desig­nated as the highest honor we can give to a Catholic layperson and then award it to an individ­ual such as Senator Moynihan whose avowed, documented, enthusiastic pro-abortion stand flies in the face of everything we hold sacred? 
The awarding of the Laetare Medal to Senator Moynihan is an affront to Notre Dame and should be disavowed by every Notre Dame man and woman who believes in life. 
James A. Gallagher, Jr. 
Class of 1966 
Rockville Centre 
New York 
June 3,1992

-

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


r------------------------­
Saturday, August 21, 1992 

A Saint Mary's student adjusts 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
D 
ear Mom and Dad, Hope your trip home from Saint Mary's was ok. Angie, Daniela, and I are putting the finishing touches on our room-you wouldn't even recognize it now. We have made some major changes-the scandalous posters went up when you left. 
We bought a chenille bedspread and throw pillows to disguise our goodwill bargain sofa. Because we all brought our own rugs and they looked stupid thrown together, we made our first major group purchase-real carpeting. It looks good now, but I wonder how the cream color will last through any more carpet picnics. 
Smaller purchases are adding up quickly. There are so many things the three of us forgot, like a fan, ironing board, iron, a drying rack, refillable mugs, a car, earplugs. 
Oh, and in your flrst care package (hint, hint) please send quarters. You know those $10 rolls? Send about eight of them. I've already gone through a lot on shuttle fare to and from ND, in vendoland, on my laundry (yes, laundry already). 
Actually, any money in general would help. Late night Domino's pizza orders are starting to make a dent in my savings from my summer job at Casual Corner. I'm beginning to miss those weekly paychecks. 
The Snack Bar at Haggar is another place my newly-found friends and I like to eat. There's also a coffee house that we plan to check out that opened last year. Clarissa Dalloway's has funky hours but I hear the espresso is out of this world and deflnitely worth making the ef­fort to go. 
Entertainment-wise, it looks like there will never be a dull moment. Poetry readings are held and campus bands perform all the time at Dalloway's. 
Also, Saint Mary's has an out­standing cultural reputation and attracts big names from all branches of the performing arts. Ballets, plays, and concerts are held in O'Laughlin Auditorium and the Little Theater in Moreau Center. 
Art displays adorn the halls of Moreau Art Gallery. The Popular Culture Group has fllm series with discussions that follow-both students and professors attend, and I've heard the different perspectives are fascinating to hear. 
I'll bet you're wondering where I'm getting all this wonderful information. Well, Angie and Daniela and I have gotten to know two sophmores across the hall named Megan and Anne. 
They're really nice and have all kinds of interesting freshman stories, and they promise we'll have plenty of SYR dates-from-hell stories of our own to tell by the end of the year. 
In case you don't know, SYR stands for "Screw Your Roommate," and you can take that any way you like. (Don't worry, Dad-it's not meant to be taken literally.) 
Aside from talk of social life at SMC, I hear a lot about the faculty. Megan and Anne said they're really accessible here. Most of them give you their home phone numbers on the syllabus, they have office hours, are usually willing to stay after class to talk, can be seen milling around campus and the snack bar at any given time. 
Some have even been known to have parties in their homes. And you'll be happy to know it's not easy to skip class-not that I was even thinking about it-because a lot of them learn names very quickly. 
Studying is not going to be as easy as it was at home. There are just so many distractions, and "quiet hours" are regularly interrupted by posse conversations in the hallways and loud radios. 
I was advised by a senior nursing major to try studying in Cushwa­Leighton Library, where I ended up catching up on some sleep. Next time I go to the library, I won't pick such a quiet floor, which is any above the ground level where there are even more opportunities to munch. 
Another thing I noticed on my own is how clean it is around here. Mom, you would be proud about the environmental consciousness of the campus. Recycling bins for aluminum and glass are everywhere. 
Heaven help anyone who fails to dispose of recyclables properly. I've witnessed a student toss an empty can into the trash by the elevator only to have a student behind her flsh it out and put it in a recycling bin. Impressive, huh? 
There are special-interest groups to join all over the place. CARE is an organization to increase sexual assault awareness and tell women how to protect themselves. 
I can't wait until Activities Night, where I know I'll sign up for ballroom dancing, gymnastics, Toastmasters, the crew team, and anything else that catches my eye. When will I have time for all of this? I probably won't, but it will be nice to have a full mailbox for a week or so. 
Please write to me often. There's nothing more depressing than coming back from class to an empty mailbox. 
I'm not missing my friends from home as much as I thought I would. It's amazing, but it seems I've gotten closer to my friends here in a week than I did to my high school buddies in four years. 
I'll be writing lots of letters, anyway. If you think of it, please send stamps, too. I'm getting too lazy to walk to Haggar or the post office for a stamp. 
That's it for now. I miss you guys-1 didn't think I would but I kind of do. Write back soon and don't forget to give my little brother a kiss for me. 
Love Always, 
Anna 
P.S. Did I thank you for letting me come here? 
I 
I 
/ 
I I 

F.Y.I.: 
By LAURIE SESSA 
Assistant Accent Editor 
F 
or all the new faces at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, things may seem a little overwhelming at flrst. Freshman and Transfer Orientation will provide some information on where to go and what to do, but here's a list of some things that you may not hear about this weekend: 
There are alternatives on campus to eating at the dining halls: 
• 
Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse at Saint Mary's is open on some evenings. It is student run so hours are subject to change. 

• 
The Snack Bar at the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's, is open 10:30 a.m.­


11:30 p.m. Monday to Friday, and 10:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m. on weekends. 
• 
Waddick's, located on the flrst floor of O'Shagnessey, is open 7 a.m.-4:45 p.m. Monday through Friday. 

• 
The Huddle, located on the main floor of LaFortune Student Center, is open 7:30 a.m.-1 a.m. Monday through Friday, and 10 a.m.-1 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday, but Allegro (in the basement) is open until 2 a.m. 

• 
The Huddle Convenience Store is open 


7:30 a.m.-2 a.m. Monday through Friday, and 10 a.m.-2 a.m. Saturday and Sunday. 
• Greenfield's Cafe, 'located in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies is open 7:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. Monday 
A step b 
through Friday. 
• The Oak Room located in South Hall is open 7 a.m.-7 p.m. every d During the evenings, the Oak Room be­comes The Nite Oak and is open 9 p.m.-1 
a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Friday and Saturday. 
Getting off-campus: 
• For those times that you are fortunate to get away and the weather is nice (chances! are 1 in 1000), the Michigan Dunes is the! 
perfect place. Just head north on U.S. 31 about 10-15 miles, turn left on U.S. 12 and go through a town called Three Oaks. Mter about 15-20 miles turn right onto Three Oaks Highway (an intersection with a stoplight). Mter about six miles turn right on Red Arrow Highway, and in minutes you'll see the sign for the Warren Dunes State Park. 
• 
Another cheap and convenient escape is the Windy City Shuttle. Approximately once a month a bus goes from the Main Circle to downtown Chicago for a day trip. Inquire at the Information Desk in LaFortune for the schedule. 

• 
One more excursion that may not be as cheap is the outlet mall at Michigan City. Go west toward Chicago on Interstate 80­90 (the Toll Road) for approximately 40 minutes and follow the signs. 

Some random information: 

• 
Packages can be sent UPS at the Country Harvester located in LaFortune Student 



-------------------------------~ 
page 11 

the ,Bend 

Center or mailed at the Notre Dame Post Office. 
• 
Beware of the sensors in the Hesburgh Library. There's nothing worse than appearing to be the clueless new student. When in doubt just hand that cute little security guard everything in your hands. 

• 
Don't be afraid of the mutant squirrels around campus, but don't taunt them either-they are actually small people who can hurt you if they want. 

• 
Don't be a sucker for the first t-shirt seller that comes your way. Be able to pick and choose because many venders will be lurking around the dorms, especially during football season. Rule of thumb-never pay more than $10 per shirt, no matter how good looking the seller may be. 

• 
Do_n 't try to run any errands during lunch. With the exception of the Office of the Registrar and the dining halls, the entire campus shuts down from approxi­mately 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. 

• 
When funds run low, remember you can cash checks from your parents or checks you write yourself at the Cashier's Office. You can also get up to $50 at the bookstore or use the cash machines at the Main Circle or in the basement of LaFortune at NO, and at Haggar at SMC. 

• 
If you go work out at the Rockne Memorial. make sure you learn the proper 


ANew Domer learns the ropes 
D 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN I heard about this really cool bar Accent Editor located off-campus. It's called Bridget McGuires Filling Station. ear Mom and Dad, Everyone who's cool goes to this 
Well, I've been on my bar. We may go there tonight, if we own in the 'Bend now for get in. a week and I'm still alive Speaking of off-campus, I went 
to tell about it. Sort of. to my first O.C. party last night. 
I'm beginning to wonder if About 25 of us called cabs and bringing an entire Ryder truck full went together. We tried to be in­of stuff was such a good idea after conspicuous, but when the keg all. It didn't seem like a lot before I was dropped on Eunice's foot, she got here, but I'm getting the started crying, her glasses fogged feeling that there might not be up, she made a big scene and we enough room for the indoor had to leave. shuffleboard set I got for gradua­I think I recognized a guy from tion. Go figure. my Biology class at the party. We 
Actually, a few of my graduation did the five minute stare-and-look­gifts seem unnecessary. The away-! recognize-you-but-do-you­answering machine, fan and re­recognize-me-thing, but we never frigerator are great, but I've gotten ended up talking to each other. a few strange looks about the Maybe I'll sit near him next class clothes steamer and antique china and my roommates could set me tea set from Aunt Ethel. Maybe I'll up with him for our first SYR. I send them home. hear everyone gets set up-it's the 
We went to the Fall Mall at thing to do. 
Stepan Center and bought more Speaking of Biology, my first lab things for the room, and for the is next week, and I'm a little most part, we're all moved in. nervous. I heard that we have to Thanks for all your help when you dissect a cadaver, but I thought were here. Dad, I hope you're that they only did that in Med head is feeling better-1 didn't school. I don't want to go to Med 
realize the loft was that heavy. It school-1 want to be an American just slipped. Sorry. Studies major and study the importance of treehouses, so what 
The S-hooks were not as easy to am I doing with a cadaver? use as the RA's told us. But some juniors told us it's ok to use nails My other classes are ok. as long as we fill the holes up with Freshman Seminar is interesting. colgate before we leave in May. So You've really got to wonder where that hammer and those nails came they come up with some of the in handy, Dad. topics for these classes. Mine is 
The room-situation isn't all that called "Easy Spirit Pumps: Can You bad. At first I thought a tiny, one­Really Play Basketball in room quad might be a little small, Them?"-it definitely looks 
but my rector and R.A. assure me promising, and could greatly affect that we'll all be the best of friends. my future career. I'll keep you And I'm sure they know what posted. 
they're talking about-they work for the University, you know. Activities Night was last night. I I do see subtle differences be­couldn't believe how many things tween the four of us, though. there were to choose from. I think 
fairly intimidating, so lay low and whatever 

I made a mistake when I 
you do, don't switch the channel on the 

Rhonda finally showed up on spontaneously signed up for 
television. 

Monday after you had left. She synchronized swimming. It
• The law in Indiana states that no alcohol said she didn't need to be sounded so good at the time, but can be bought this side of the state line on 

"oriented." I tend to disagree. She now I'm beginning to wonder. 
Sundays. but remember that Michigan is had on a black Iron Maiden t-shirt just a couple of miles up 31. 

and a leather jacket. Her pet boa Maybe the fact that I flunked the• When that first dance rolls around and constrictor is arriving tomorrow mandatory swim test has some­you are looking for a small gift for your only to be followed by the arrival thing to do with it. Anyway,
date, one of the best places to browse 

of 'Dirk,' her HTH. I live in fear of Ballroom Dancing and the Youngcheap and interesting items is Everything's her. Democrats should be giving me a a Dollar at University Park Mall. 
Eunice is a little on the quiet call any day now.
• Don't rush off campus to get your film side. We haven't seen much of herdeveloped. The bookstore develops film 

since classes started-she's We can't wait to have our first 
fairly quickly and inexpensively, and free discovered the eighth floor of the 'social gathering' this weekend.

double day is every Wednesday. Another library and hasn't really left since We decided to invite everyone

little known bargain for pictures is the 

the first Freshman Seminar paper named Mike we met at orientation.
Educational Media located in the basement was due. That was the first all­Hopefully a lot of men will attend.

of the Center for Continuing Education. 

nighter of many she has pulled Especially since we've met about Every day is free doubles day. 
already. and we've only had three 200 men named Michael.
• Choosing where to study is almost as days of classes. Maybe some of it 

important as studying, itself. For light 

will rub off on me. Probably not. The food is ok, but it was studying and much socializing, the second decidedly better when the parentsfloor of the library is the perfect place. 
Jenny seems cool. Her sister is a were here. I survive on plenty ofBefore the first big test, serious studying senior, lives off-campus and has a bagels and yo-cream. I heard it's 
can be done in the Law Library, the 

car, so we've already gone out to non-fat. I don't see how anyoneArchitecture Library, or grab a classroom Macri's and Chili's for dinner this could gain the freshman 15 within the Security Building or your favorite 
week. Macri's serves the largest the food they serve here. 
building. 

glasses of beer I've ever seen (A• While you are setting up your room and guy at the table next to ours had I can't wait for parents weekend. 
are noticing the lack of furniture, keep in 

one). The car-thing is definitely Send money and food.
mind that some good places to shop are the key-we'll have to talk about that ­Goodwill and Salvation Army. Plastic crates 

at Christmas. Love, your Domer 
will soon become scarce so buy early. 

etiquette and sign up for the machines on Good places to shop for room stuff are: the dry erase boards and wait your turn. Pier 1, Lechter's, Venture, Target, People in spandex with big muscles can be PharMor, and World Bazaar. 
page 12 
-
Fresh 
continued from page 17 
ring from last spring's recon­structive knee surgery and may not be at 100 percent for the September 5 season opener at North Carolina State.Thus far she has only participated in light workouts. 
The possibility of opening the season without Porter, 1991's MCC Player of the Year, has Petrucelli looking elsewhere for offensive production. 
"We are going to have to rely on Alison (Lester) and the freshmen," the third-year coach explained. 
"We are not going to have one dominant goal scorer, but we are going to have a lot of good goal scorers." 
Lester, a junior, is not unfamiliar with putting the ball in the net. She was the team's top scorer in 1990 with 14 goals and five assists, and last season 
Volley 
continued from page 20 
contributor on the offense. 
"She has been a real contrib­utor and team player. She has very good all-around skills and good leadership qualities and she's a real smart player," said Brown. 
Also returning for the Irish will be outside hitter Marilyn Cragin, middle blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn, setter Janelle Karlan and middle blocker Molly Stark. Notre Dame will 
finished second on the squad behind Porter. 
Petrucelli has no set starting lineup, and it might stay that way throughout the season. 
"We might change every game, but we will be more flexible and will be able to change how we play for each opponent. 
Basically, we are going to try to play the same style as last year, but execute everything better," Petrucelli explained. 
The Irish will have to do so to be successful against this season's tougher sachedule if they are to match last season's record setting 15 wins. 
IRISH NOTES-Two sophomores, Robin Mega and Tiffany Thompson have been forced to miss the first week of practice because of injuries. Mega has a sprained ankle and Thompson is nursing a pullled quad muscle. 
Petrucelli said that neither injury is serious, and he expects them both back sometime next week. 
also be looking for Andrea Armenta, Dyan Boulac, Nicole Coates, Julie Harris, Cynthia May and Christy Peters to con­tribute this year. 
The squad has a competitive schedule ahead this year with games against several top-20 teams in addition to five regular season tournaments. The Irish will face top-1 0 teams in Florida, New Mexico, Hawaii and USC and last year's number two team in Long Beach State. The tournament schedule includes the Big Four Classic, the Purdue Invitational and its very own Golden Dome InvitationaL 
The Observer welcomes all freshmen to campus! Good Luck Class of 1996! 

The Observer Saturday, August 22, 1992 

Observer File Photo Tiffany Thompson, shown here against Southern Illinois Edwardsville last season, has missed practice due to an injury. 

Rank Team 
1. 
Virginia 

2. 
St. Louis 

3. 
SMU 

4. 
UCLA 

5. 
Indiana 

6. 
Wake Forest 

7. 
San Francisco 

8. 
Clemson 

9. 
Rutgers 

10. 
North Carolina 

11. 
Portland 

12. 
Yale 

13. 
Duke 

14. 
South Carolina 

15. 
Seton Hall 

16. 
Santa Clara 

17. 
Fresno State 

18. 
Furman 

19. 
George Mason 


20. Notre Dame 
1991 Record  
19-1-2  1  
20-2-2  3  
16-4-1  9  
18-4-0  11  
19-3-2  6  
13-5-3  8  
17-4-0  5  
13-6-2  18  
19-3-1  4  
15-6-1  14  
13-7-0  NR  
12-4-2  NR  
10-9-0  NR  
14-5-0  NR  
14-4-3  19  
20-1-2  2  
14-4-4  15  
15-5-1  13  
16-6-0  NR  
13-5-2  NR  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from to a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  WANTED I LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP NEEDS  School Year '92-'93. Two bedrooms, large outdoors. Home close to campus. Clean, quiet  Highly desirable Jamison Inn Condo completely furnished with sleeping accommodations for eight. All  $$ -NEW YORKERS DESPERATELY SEEKING 2 HOME FOOTBALL TICKETS. ANY GAME  Audrey Gomez TEC  TEC  
PART-TIME HELP. CLOSE TO  neighborhood. Use of kitchen and  kitchen appliances plus  EXCEPT OCT. 24. PLEASE CALL  TEENS ENCOUNTER CHRIST IN  
For more information and  CAMPUS. CALL CHAD AT 282­ laundry facilities. A HOME away  washer/dryer. Investment for rental  (516) 463-6930 IMMEDIATELY, 9  SOUTH BEND AREA ARE VERY  
assistance regarding the  3727 FOR MORE INFO.  from HOME.  or private residence. $94,900.  AM-5PM, AND ASK FOR LYNDA.  HAPPY TO WELCOME NOTRE  
investigation of financing, business  WANTED: Mature goal-oriented,  Lawsona Gibson 277-2666, 272­ PRICE NEGOTIABLE!  DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS  
opportunities and work-at-home  PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA NOW HIRING  undergraduate, female students  6548  WHO WISH TO JOIN US HERE.  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  Full-time and Part-time Drivers and  need apply. Preferably political  Cressy & Everet1/Better Homes &  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  CALL 277-2535.  
urges its readers to contact the  Inside Help. Flexible Schedules.  science, music, and art majors and  Gardens.  CALL JOE X1760  
Better Business Bureau of  Call 271-1177 today for more  athletes. Only women who love  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  information or apply in person at  children and are willing to spend  3 MEN'S 10-SPEED BIKES. GOOD  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ 54533 Terrace Lane (next to  their spare time teaching while  CONDITION.  TICKETS.272-6306  
4200; or call the BBB at219-277­ Subway) off SR 23 across from the  living in the home.  287-5235 & LEAVE MESSAGE IF  
9121 or800-439-5313.  new super Video Watch.  Drivers  Ex-California teacher and coach, 35  NECESSARY. WILL RETURN  $$  I Need MICH TIX!I $$  
need car, license and insurance.  years experience. I travel  YOUR CALL.  please please please please  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  periodically. 232-2794, ask for Paul.  Call Dennis @ 283-1577  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard  FOR RENT  BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  OAKHILL CONDO -2 BRS, 2 Baths, 1,170 sq.ft., fireplace, spiral  
- 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 I LOST/FOUND I Nice 2-bedroom apartment by Tippecanoe Place. $350. w/heat. 609 W. Washington, 232-7861.  219-291-7153 I FOR SALE 1987 V-4 Taurus, loaded, great  staircase to loft/den. 1 car garage. I j'"·~~~~ETS  PERSONALS FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00,  
DON'T WORRY ...!f:Jund your gold  2 Bed 'n Breakfast rooms. 1 mi.  shape. t-owner. Call 291-8999.  PLE:ASE  HELP:  Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners  
necklace near the library on 8/20.  from campus -$75 a night, no  My dad would like to see one  welcome. First meeting September  
Please call to id 288-7976  smoking or drinking. Excellent  COUCH, RECLINER, KING-SIZE  Michigan game before I graduate  1st. Equipment provided. $80 per  
neighborhood. 272-0128.  WATERBED. 272-9776 OR 287­ and need tickets.  semester.  
2 night stays preferred ..  4438.  Call Mike283-1161  
Steve is a God  



Saturday, August 22, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Hall of Fame headed to downtown South Bend 
College Football museum spot chosen over four other cities 
By MONICA YANT University will help attract fans," said Brian Boulac, assis­
Editor -in-Chief 
tant athletic director. Notre Dame has bragging 

Football fans will have a sec­rights to the College Hall of ond reason to visit South Bend Fame: 32 players, including the when the National Football legendary George Gipp and the Foundation's College Hall of Four Horsemen, as well as five Fame is completed in 1994. coaches. The 37 inductees are 
The 50,000 square foot more than any other school in facility will be located at the the country. Over 600 players corner of Washington and St. and coaches have been in­
Joseph streets, directly across ducted into the hall since it was from the Century Center. The founded in 1947. 
hall will house exhibits Months of negotiations be­spanning the history of college tween the foundation and city 
football, beginning with the officials led to the July 13 deci­first game played between sion. With a population of just Rutgers and Princeton in 1865. 105,000, South Bend was the 
University offiCials smallest of the fmal cities vying maintained that securing the for the hall, according to hall is a triumph for the city Michael Fallon, an independent alone to savor. consultant working for the "'We've got probably more foundation. Hall of Famers than anyone," "The reason that South Bend 
said Father E. William won the competition rests Beauchamp, executive vice squarely on the fact that ulti­president. "But it's more impor­mately, they put forward the 
tant for what (the decision) most complete, most compelling means to the city and the local and most professional response 
community." to the question that was posed," Irish football coach Lou Holtz Fallon said. agrees. He said the decision is Houston, Atlanta, New "a real tribute to the leadership Orleans and the Meadowlands 
in this community" and should Sports Complex in New Jersey not be viewed as a "University were passed over in the deci­success." sion. 
Still, some say the Notre The South Bend site is not the Dame connection is hard to ig­first for the hall. After years of nore. existing as a series of exhibits 
"The city of South Bend is at foundation headquarters, an linked with the history of col­official museum was opened in 
lege football more than any 1978 at King's Island, Ohio. other city in the country," said But poor attendance at the Mayor Joe Kernan. facility caused officials to re­"The hall is hoping for the think their decision. rich football tradition at the "The location was, regret­

tably, almost fundamentally flawed by what everyone origi­nally thought would be its greatest benefit-its location next to the amusement park," he said. The location, Fallon added, "became a distraction, more than an encouragement, to attendance." 
Averaging just 50,000 visitors per year, the King's Island facil­ity did not come close to meet­ing the 300,000 projected an­nual attendance, Fallon said. 
By September of 1990, foun­dation officials decided to relo­cate the hall. 
More than 80 cities were in­vited to submit proposals to se­cure the facility, Fallon said. The field was eventually nar­rowed to 30, then to 18. 
A short list of five cities was selected by the foundation last March. 
"Clearly , it wasn't based on population," said Fallon of the decision to relocate in South Bend. 
He cited the "completeness and professionalism" of the city's proposal and said the fi­
nancial  package  was  
"compelling."  
South  Bend  will lead  a  

fundraising effort to finance the $13.6 million project. Kernan said the city offer "major na­tional corporations" the oppor­tunity to be a part of the hall. 
With "conservative" atten­dance estimates of 200,000 a 
year, Kernan said the hall should generate at least $1 mil­lion a year alone. He added that the city stands to gain signifi­cantly from out-of-town busi­ness for South Bend hotels, restaurants and merchants. 
The final design for the hall is still being developed, but Fallon indicated there will be a blending of permanent and travelling exhibits. He said the hall will not "highlight individ­ual institutions as much as out­standing individuals at a variety of institutions in a variety of time periods." 
The hall will open the Friday before the Michigan game in 1994. 
Back To School 


REMNANT SALE 10% TO 20% OFF 

• Over 800 remnants • Hundreds of colors 
• Delivery available • Hundreds of sizes Our sale price is in addition to the 
already discounted posted price. Actual savings are up to 40°/o off regular prices.
~--~~~~~--~~ ~ ~
. 
0 
11 
~ MC •IHl(Y IUS 1'01 
277-9711 
• CARPET • VINYL 


MON.-FRI. 9:00-8:30 • WOOD • CERAMIC SAT. 9:00-5:30 
•AREA RUGS 

SUN. 1:00-5:30 Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road 
page 14 The Observer 
Saturday, August 22, 1992 

Murphy could not just walk away from a part of his life 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
When students finished 

school in May, two things were 
expected from the Notre Dame 
baseball team. 
The Irish were going to have a successful trip to the NCAA Tournament, and Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy was going to accept an offer to become head coach at the University of Miami (Fla.). Fortunately, only the former came to be. 
Notre Dame almost shocked the college baseball world in the Atlantic Regional of the tournament, which featured top-ranked Miami (Fla.). 
After dropping their first game in the double-elimination tournament to South Carolina, the Irish bounced back to defeat Miami, Delaware and South Carolina respectively. The three wins left them just one game from Omaha, the site of the College World Series. 
The Hurricanes, however, were not about to let coach Ron Fraser end his 30 year career at Miami without a trip to Omaha, and they topped the Irish 5-1 to advance. 
Murphy did shock the 
college baseball world by 
deciding to stay at Notre Dame. 
"I think even my family was surprised, but I have invested so much in this program and with all that we have accom­plished I wasn't ready to walk away. 
I have watched the program grow and grow. People are waiting for us to come down to earth, but it is not going to hap­pen. 
We have one of the most solid programs in the country, one that is based on discipline, work ethic and talented people," Murphy explained. 
The Notre Dame program is indeed solid, as the Irish have compiled a 226-84-1 record in the five years since Murphy took over a program that had gone 65-80 in the three previ­ous seasons. 
Despite the tremendous achievements of the Notre Dame program, Murphy "strongly considered" the offer from Miami, which boasts one of the most successful programs in the country. 
He had a chance to replace a 


Pat Murphy 

college baseball legend in Fraser, a three-time NCAA Coach of the Year and 1992 United States Olympic Coach, but Murphy opted to stay with the program that he has built into a national power. 
"Money and weather aside, this is what is best for me. People can say that Murph is scared of the big time, but all that I have to say is that we're in the big time. 
We've beaten Miami five of nine times we've played them. Why should I go to a program that can't beat us?" 
In addition to his team's im­pressive record against the Hurricanes, Murphy has more reasons to stay. The 1993 squad will have to 
"The new stadium (which replace five starters, nonethe­will be ready for the 1994 less Murphy is confident. season) has me very excited," Murphy said. "I could say that this is going 
There are also the benefits to be a rebuilding year, but I of the Irish's post-season honestly think this group will success. come together and be a good 
club. "We will not forget how 
close we came (to Omaha)," the This confidence is based on Irish coach commented. how hard I know they (the He feels that will motivate players) will work and the fact 
his team throughout the off­
that we believe in ourselves." 
season. 

Rocco's Restaurant 
Welcome back students and parents 
South Bend's ..Original Pizza• and a tradition with students since 1951· 
Only a few blocks from campus Families welcome We serve the best in Italian Cuisine Try us and you'll agree 
Tues-Thurs 5 pm-12 am Fri-Sat 5 pm-1 am 
537 St. Louis Blvd. 233-2464 ...._ Closed Sunday & Monday 
Fiesta Bowl photo arrives at JACC 

Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has taken delivery of a unique gift from the National Collegiate Athletic Association-an eight foot high circular exhibit depicting the opening kickoff of the 1989 Fiesta Bowl in which the Notre Dame football team secured a national championship. 
The photograph, taken by noted sports photographer Rick Clarkson, was taken from the Irish 35-yard line as they prepared to kick off and spans a full 360 degrees. The three-inch high 35mm negative was then enlarged to 14 separate photographic transparencies eight feet high and four feet wide which were then laminated to a clear, flexible material. These panels are called Duratrans. When assembled "in the round," the entire photo mural spans a twenty foot diameter, not including the outer structure which houses the florescent tubes that backlight the Duratrans. 
The Fiesta Bowl photo had been displayed until this spring at the NCAA's Visitors Center in Overland Park, Kansas before being replaced by a photo of the 1992 Rose Bowl. Thanks to conversations among the NCAA Visitors Center, Clarkston, Notre Dame sports information director John Heisler and Alumni Association Executive Director Charles Lennon, Jr., the Duratran panels made the journey from storage to South Bend in May. 
But the panels are only part of the story. Lennon hired Bruce Auerbach, associate professional specialist in Notre Dame's department of communication and theater to create the framework into which the Duratrans would be displayed with an eye toward making the whole cyclorama transportable. The result is a free-standing structure faced in fake brick, complete with Notre Dame pennants and crowd noise delivered via an integrated audio system. 
The cyclorama will be placed on semi-permanent display in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center fieldhouse during home football weekends, providing visitors to the alumni hospitality center in the Joyce Center fieldhouse the opportunity to step back in time. The hospitality center is open to all alumni, friends and visitors to the University beginning at 9 a.m. on game days and closes one hour after the game's conclusion. The center features food, concerts by the Glee Club and Shenanigans, performances by the Notre Dame cheerleaders and porn pon teams, Notre Dame videos, and large screen television. 
The hospitality center is provided as a service of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 


ADD WARMTH, COLOR & SOFTNESS TO ANY DRAB ROOM 
10°/o Discount or Free Pad with Student ID 
Mon-Fri 9 -8, Sat 1 0 -5, Sun noon -5 

Follow Douglas Road to: 50760 u.s. 31 North 
LJ~,~~r~IS~~~ ------------------------------------------, 
IAiiiiiiliil~~ •"'"~ 
South Bend, Indiana 46637
~~~~o~HC 
0 CUSA 1992 ~EPROOUCTION OF ANY PA~T OF THIS AO IS PROHIBITED 
(219) 272-4500 
WITHOUT W~ITTEN CONSENT OF CARPETlAND USA 
Random 
continued from page 20 
Penn State, the two teams on the schedule which defeated the Irish in 1991, will be played in front of the 59,075 faithful at Notre Dame Stadium. 
It is a strong possibility that the Irish as well as pre-season number-one Miami will go through the regular season un­scathed. If this happens, thanks to the newly-instituted bowl al­liance, Catholics vs. Convicts IV will take place at the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Day. 
I don't think the seniors want to leave Notre Dame without a national championship ring. 
Irish 31, 'Canes 27. 

-------~~ 
Saturday, August 22, 1992 The Observer page 15 

/ 
I 

''@o I take 'The Microbioloay of Potehfia/ly Path 09 enic 8efa-Hernoly+ic )+reptocoed.' Or I The ~volu+ion of the }ituafl~n Comedy.' Do I really wah+ to 1\"e with Judy the neat freak-~ain.! can·+ believe Ive got untiIMor\da'l to dec ide itI'm -a Biolo3y ot' a TAeatre major. Have I completely lost it? Will I ever be able to make Cl deci>iof1, a9ain? Wait arninute,juJf ye.>ferday, I waf 
able to picl< aphohe company with 
ab sotutely ()O prohlern ...Y~5, there ir hope:' 

ith AT&T, choosing a phone company is easy. ones your roommates make. And the AT&T Calling Card Because when you sign up for AT&T Student makes it easy to call from almost anywhere to any-Saver Plus, you can pick from a complete line where. Also, when you sign up for AT&T, your first call
Ill 

of products and services designed specifically to fit your is free: needs while you're in college. Whatever they may be. And with AT&T, you'll get the most reliable long 
Our Reach Oue Plans can save you money on IBmitiliiiil distance service. AT&T Long Distance, no matter where and when you call. Call AT&T Student Saver Plus. It's the one college decision that's Manager will separate your AT&T Long Distance calls from the easy to make. 
Ifyou're an off-campus student, sign up for Am' Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 85L 

ATs.T 
©1992 AT&T. "You'll receive one $3 AT&T L.D. Certificate equivalent to 22 minutes of direct·dialed, coast-to-coast, night and I>OO<end calling based oo rates effective 6/8/92. You could get more or fewer minutes depending on wflere or when you call. Offer limited to one certificate per student 
-


page 16 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
DuBose, Mirer and the Irish trampled the Hoosiers, 49-27. 
The Irish can only hope that DuBose will be able to come back for the 1992 Notre Dame debut on September 5 against Northwestern. Without this plug up the middle, the already-sus­pect Irish front seven becomes an even larger question mark. 
Notre Dame's linebackers seemed solid with DuBose in the lineup, what with returning starters Devon McDonald and Pete Bereich cementing the foundation. 
Eric Jones' unexplained de­parture from the team took a big chunk of experience out of the defensive line, leaving that unit to a group led by senior Junior Bryant and junior Bryant Young. The Irish will have to rely on Young, who started every game last year until a late-season injury against Air Force, and Bryant to anchor a line made up of young players with little game experience. 
The situation in the Irish backfield is similar. With the departure of Tony Brooks and Rodney Culver to the NFL, Notre Dame's tailback position is in line for a restructuring. 
Willie Clark has moved from the Irish secondary to tailback, where he began last season. Joining Clark there are Reggie Brooks and Lee Becton. who showed their stuff to Irish fans last season. 
Depth in the Irish secondary has allowed Clark's move to the offensive side of the ball. Much­maligned in 1990, and solid last season, Notre Dame's secondary will make it difficult for opposing quarterbacks to find receivers this fall. 
Juniors Tom Carter. John Covington and Jeff Burris will likely return to their starting roles, while a host of others vie for the final spot in the defensive backfield. 
Competition is similarly torrid at wide receiver. 
Ray Griggs and Adrian Jarrell are back for their senior sea­sons, in which they hope to fi­nally have a chance to prove themselves. Lake Dawson has returned from a semester spent in the Pacific Northwest. Clint Johnson emerged in the spring as a soft-handed receiver who can do more than outrun tacklers on kickoff returns, wllile Mike Miller is now recog­nized as the fastest football player this side of Toronto. 
But while Miller and Johnson run around and away from op­ponents' defensive backs, Jerome Bettis will be running over their linemen and linebackers.Bettis has been called the best player, regardless of position, in college football. This opinion is debatable. That he is one of the scariest is not. 
This tank provides a perfect 
The Observer 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Notre Dame Sports Information Is seeking volunteers for its operation for the 1992·1993 school year; Students will work with all 24 varsity sports, press releases and statistics, Call Doug Tammaro at 239-7516. 
Varsity Hockey will hold a meeting at 4:30p.m. on August 31 in the JACC Football Auditorium. 
The Notre Dame Campus Golf Championship will he held on August 29, August 30 and September 6 on Burke Memorial Golf Course. The tournament will also serve as an open tryout for the men's and women's golf teams. Entry forms are available in the Golf Pro Shop and are due by 5:00 p.m. August 26. 
Umpires are needed for RecSports baseball leagues. Anyone interested in umpiring baseball games should attend the umpires meeting September 3 at 5:00 p.m. in the JACC auditorium. Baseball umpires will earn $10 a game. 
Football officials are needed for RecSports football. Anyone interested in officiating the Grad football league should report to the JACC auditorium at 5 p.m. on Sept. 9 and those interested in officiating the women's interhall league should come at 5:30 p.m 
Varsity Softball will hold an informational meeting for new or .returning players on August 27 at 4:30 p.m. in the JACC Football Auditorium. Questions? Call the softball office at 239-6167. 
The Observer Sports staff will hold a meeting on August 25 at 7:30p.m. in the third floor of LaFortune for all returning staff. Anyone who is interested in writing sports for the Observer is encouraged to attend. 
Saturday August 22, 1992 
Local basketball stars to play for Saint Mary's 
Special to the Observer 
Two local athletes will con­tinue their basketball careers on the collegiate level at Saint Mary's College this season. 
Colleen Andrews, who aver­aged 14 points per game as a senior at Mishawaka Marian, and Laura Wright, a defensive specialist from Goshen High School, are the two newest members of the Belles' incom­ing freshman class. 
Andrews, who also averaged five steals and three assists per game in her senior year, holds school records for three-point goals in a game and in a sea­son. She earned 10 varsity let­ters as a Marian athlete. 
As a senior at Goshen, Wright averaged five points and four rebounds per game for the Lady Redskins, was the team's Defensive Award winner and was an honorable mention selection to the All­Sectional and Academic All­State teams. She also received the Goshen Kiwanis Scholar­Athlete Award. 

complement to Mirer's cannon, .J====================================----------------;­
and with the blocking of the . Irish line, the Irish offense will put a lot of points on the board. 
But how many points will the defense surrender? That ques­tion cannot be answered until DuBose's fate is determined. 
& ITALIAN RESTAURANT Pizza & Pasta-Sandwiches--Appetizers 25 Pizza Toppings & 1 lb. burgers 
delivery to campus SPECIALS: (expires 8/31/92) 
DINE IN ONLY CARRY OUT ONLY Buy any 18" pizza Buy any 16" or 18" pizza & get a 2 1!1!!:&~get one 12" one liter Coke, Diet Coke, Sprite or ...; topmtzza Brag's Root Beer 
52303 Emmons Rd.
271-2055 
Georgetown Shopping Cemer 
OPEN 
(next to Club Shenanigan's) 
!lam-10 
• Bountiful Baskets 
Baskets of Gifts for aU Occasions 
Parents make leaving home 1 a little easier... n 
Sweet Tooth Basket Munchies Basket 2 doz. homemade cookies 12 oz. beek stick 2 LARGE muffins 1 wrapped cheese 4 fruit 2 lb. box crackers 8 oz. Snackens 2 fruits 8 oz. Calf. Mix 1 bag of candy kisses 2 candy bars 2 pkg. gum 2 pkg. gum 
$22.95 $24.95 
Delivery free on campus 
1,8Q0,3 73,9716 
or 
272,9776 
We do special baskets and gifts for birthdays, football weekend baskets to hotels or thank ou to home. 

_,. 
The SHIRT 192 
on sale at the 


FallMall '92 
-
in Stepan Center ·'the tradition continues" 

Welcome Back Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
New This Year is That 
NOBLE ROMAN'S 

is now Delivering to your campus. 
20
We Are The Home Of The 11 
Party Pie 
Filled with anyone of our 2 dozen toppings 
And to start the year off right here are some $ savings coupons 
n:nnnnnnn n:nn:nnnnn gmn:nnnnn 

20II P~rty 
20 II P~rty


Pie Pie 3-Toppings 
3-Toppings 

$9.99 g g ONLY .99 
. $9.99 

limit S s,.e $5 81 ~ ~ limitS S.we $5.81 ~ limits s.,e $S.81 
tt 233-6565 M 233-6565
~~~~~ fhnnnnnnnnn fhnn:nn:nnnnn 
Also let us know if we can be of any assistance in fundraising or large parties up to 100. 
Delivery :-tours: M•Th 5pm -10 I Fri 5pm ·Midnight I Sat 11am ·Midnight I Sw Noon -10pm 
we•ve got it here! 
Everything you need for your dorm room at 
FallMall '92 
Carpets, Refrigerators, Posters, Pillows' Plants & more ... 
Sunday, Aug 23 Monday, Aug 24 

-~----------­
Saturday, August 22, 1992 The Observer page 17 
ND men's XC better than decent 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
In the words of Notre Dame cross country coach Joe Piane, the men's cross country team should be "pretty decent." 
Kind of modest for a team that returns two former cross country All-Americans in John Coyle and Mike McWilliams, solid seniors, juniors and sophomores and a bumper crop 

~ 
'*~~~ ,{IIJ.W 
,..,/11!!.,/f• 
eVW,...~
Homes-Homes-Homes 
With good proximity to campus: 
Ranch 

303 W. An~ela. 3 BRs' 1,1/2 Baths, 1400+ sq. 
feet, basement and garage. Just 
listed! $60's 
52985 Emmons Rd .. 3 BRs, 1 Bath, newer tri, level, unfin. LL. Att. garage. Range & Refrig. $74,900 
11/z Story 

1025 Hudson Ave .. historic district, 4 BRs, 1, 1/2 Baths. Appliances. $39,900 
1337 VikinT Dr .. 3 BR's 1 Bath, Ranch, An. 
garage,; Inc udes newer dishwasher and 
refrigerator. Broker,owned. $45,000 
Mary Jo Shively OFF:(219) 255-5858 FAX:(219) 258-7482
broker associate, CRS, GRI 
RF..M*100 .....y
RES:(219) 277-2279 st. 1ndrews piau
15 Years Experience 
620 w. edison suite 100 mishawaka, lndl1n1 46545 
phone: (219) 255·5858 
ran the second fastest steeplechase in recent Irish track history and Nate Ruder ran well during the indoor and outdoor track seasons. 
The freshman class features a parade of cross country state champions in Andy Burns (Georgia). Joe Dunlap (New York) and Mike Smedley (Michigan). Also hoping to con­tribute will be Jeff Hojnacki who finished fourth in Ohio and Derrick Seiling who finished third in Pennsylvania and Eric Fassano, a promising runner from Quebec. 
Piane knows that he lost two 
quality runners in Pat Kearns 
and Mike Drake. 
"Kearns is a big loss and Mike 
Drake was always solid. We 
won't be able to replace their 
personalities, but we can re­
place them as cross country 
runners," said Piane. 
The Irish will open the season 
by hosting Georgetown on 
September 12, the National 
Catholic Invitational on 
September 25 and the Notre 
Dame Invitational on October 2. 
Bruno's Pizza 
Back to School Special 
$2.00 off any size pizza 
w/Student I.D. 
Special Available Sun .. Thur 4 .. 10 p.m. 
offer expires 9, 30,92 
DINE IN & CARRY OUT ONLY ~ 
~" '· 
2610 Prairie Ave. 288--3320 ~c.P '-r:9 
.::}~ >f9 
Welcome Back! ~~c; 
FALL MALL '92 
STEPAN CENTER 
SUNDAY, AUGUST 23 MONDAY, AUGUST 24 
• 
Plants 

• 
Carpets 

• 
Overstuffed Pillows 

• 
Newspaper Subscriptions 


12:00 PM-6:00 PM 
11:00 AM -5:00 PM 
• Quality Furniture 
• Refrigerator Reotals 
• 
Posters 

• 
Pictures 


Why moye your stuff, when you can buy it here?!!! 
-
lost only three last yeats t-ea:tn to Central Florida in ha~ significant im~ 
&;on · ,,, NCAA 

ornmaLmlmt selections. 
been in.that 

This year we ~e ~oin~ to fin(i. ourselves in it alqt;" Petrucelli conun:ente(i,' 
·Th~ lrisli will have to use that f!~})~l'i, t() their ~~~antage 
if' they.. to be successful agains~ a much tougher sched~ Ule Yvli~ch includes QJike and 
SMU.. 
thiS e]j:perience will 

"' ....un~·~· wilt be lin • goal. 
captain Michelle 
(l'Om .. a 
She posted' a 

Irish women ready to compete 
of talented freshman. 
Several of the returning run­ners distinguished themselves during the 1992 track season. Senior Nick Radkewich went to the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America (IC4A) meet in the 10,000 me­ters. Sophomore John Cowan 

By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The women's cross country team with over half the team in the sophomore class comes into the 1992 season with experience that should pay off in the long run. 
"They should improve," said Notre Dame's Director of Cross Country Joe Piane. "Last year, they were very naive. Each meet was a new experience. Now they know exactly what they are getting into." 
Gone are seniors Amy Blaising and Diana Bradley but the Irish will look to freshman newcomers Anne Colonna of Eugene, Oregon and Amy Siegel of Wheeling, Illinois. Siegel finished second in Illinois in 
.EUROPE ON SALE 
' ' ' . 
South Bend to: 

PARIS • $498  ATHENS ·$648  
LONOON • $598  MADRID -$498  
FRANKFURT • $498  MILAN -$548  
MUNICH • $498  ROME ·$548  

Round-trip prices not including tax. 
Limited offer 

"Travel1011 • 12/16/92, 12/24-3/31/93. 
1723 South Bend Ave. 271-4880 Haggar College Center 
284.-4758 

fF.!\travelmore 
~Carlson Travel NetWork· 
cross country. 
Remaining is Andrea Sullivan, Patty Villarreal, Laura Guyer, Jessica Raniszeski, Becky Alfieri, Eva Flood, Kala Boulware, Stefanie Jensen, Emily Husted, Polly Rassi and Sarah Riley. 
Senior Lisa Gorski will serve as the captain of the team this year and should be a good leader in addition to running solid cross country races. 
Piane would have liked more age in the group. 
"It would be nice to have another outstanding upperclassman, but the girls came along well last year, so I'm not worried," said Piane. 
Last year, the Irish women finished third at the National Catholic Invitational, second at the Notre Dame Invitational and second at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Chamionships. 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS 
Flexible schedules available for 'The best and brightest." Able to work 4PM . 10PM or 5:30PM-10:30 PM during the week and EITHER 9AM • 3PM or 3:30. 9:30PM on Saturday OR 11AM · 5PM or 5:30PM to 9:30 PM on Sunday to do survey research interviewing, coding and data entry in our growing South Bend Research Operations Center. Excellent compensation and working conditions. PC experience desired. Typing required. Send resume or letter of interest to: Market Strategies, 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219­233-3454 for appointment. 
ALSO HIRING WEEKENDS ONLY 
Happy 21•1 Birthday Kim Canedella 
We Love You, Mom, Dad, Mary Ann & Liz 
..-----~---------~-----------~----~­
The Observer 

page 18 Saturday, August 22, 1992 
-SMC soccer and volleyball preparing for seasons 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Whoever said Monday morn­ings are a time to dread? Certainly not the SMC soccer and volleyball teams, which both begin their seasons this Monday. 
Practice for Tom Van Meter, head soccer coach, begins early August 24 on the dewy soccer field. As he enters his sixth year at SMC with an overall record of 50-26-9, Van Meter said the loss of three four-year starters could hurt the team. 
Last year, SMC soccer was ranked 19th in the country. Van Meter credits Kelly Cook, a Division III All-American de­fender; Greer Gilliland, for­ward; and Anne Hartzel, for­ward; with "establishing" the team and says the seniors left tough shoes to fill. 
One of the senior shoe­fillers, junior forward Megan Dalsaso is at the top of the list. According to Van Meter, Dalsaso "only needs four goals to be the biggest scorer in Saint Mary's history." 
Last year she set the single season record with 14 goals and was named to the All-Midwest team. 
Senior forward Stacy Winget completed the season with only one less goal than Dalsaso, and 
Indiana Auto Insurance Ourgood rates may save you money. Call fOr a qoote 9-5, 289-1993. 
she is also an offensive threat. 
Although senior forward Kristin Crowley was unable to play last year due to a knee in­jury, she has "been cleared" to join the team this fall said Van Meter. 
Van Meter said he is also anticipating Molly O'Connel's return, who was in Europe last year. 
Of the 1991-92 soccer team, only 15 of the 20 veterans re­main. Van Meter is anxious about securing five or six more members on the team. 

"Some of the kids get intimi­dated about playing collegiate soccer," Van Meter said. "I hope at least a couple of them change their minds." 
The Belles are a good bet for a Division III postseason tournament bid because "the potential is definitely there if we can stay away from injury," according to Van Meter. 
The 1992-93 season opener is September 11, when the Belles host Loyola (Chicago). 
Monday morning will find Julie Schroeder-Biek carrying 
The Fondue Parlor 

Taste the Aroma of Romance ... 

Voted Michiana'sMost Romantic Restaurant 
100 Center Old Brewery Building Mishawaka 255,1526 
Tues-Thur, 5-9 p.m. Fri ·Sat 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Suggested 

an 8-15 record into her second year as SMC volleyball coach. The opening game will be September 5 at Kalamazoo College Tournament. 
Schroeder-Biek has some key players returning. Karen Lorton, senior, established her­self among the nation's best at 
2.894 blocks per game, earning second place, and .4357 hits, ranking fourth. 
The team was ranked third at the end of last year and Lorton would "like to see us ranked in at least four categories throughout and at the end of the year as a team." 
Lorton said the team's success "will depend on the freshmen coming in." Lorton continued that in order to face a highly competitive schedule, "we're going to have to win games faster-we're not aggressive enough. We need to get on right away and win three (games) instead of going for four or 
five." 

WELCOME STUDENTS 

FULL SERVICE RESTRAURANT OPEN 24 hours , 7 Days a Week Friendly, Casual Dining with daily specials 
Just minutes from Notre Dame Campus ( Take Angela East to S.R. 23 [1st stoplight east of campus] Left on 
S.R. 23 to Ironwood. We're 1/4 of a block on your 1ft hand side.) 
Present this ad to your server & you and your party will receive a 10% discount. 
Expires 9-30-92 
1710N. Ironwood Dr.•277-7400 
Now Open at Campus Shoppes 
World~s Greatest _,,_-,. -' -.· ·----·--·-:-----•<!--":' --~-­
... ;..• -, . .-..,.~.. .. .. -···"--··JW·"··h---... --. .. .•. --·----<ft-· 
., ... 
laundromat .~~-:h. . 
lBl3SouthsendAve. ~z~ k)l. 

we c.are l1air 
~ ().,i,.P.u./MA. A__ 
~-::> r-""~7 ~ 
"j~ FREE ~,~ · 
~7WASH~ ~~·"\J~ 
Frczv Rczfrczshmcznts 
• 
Pool TableNideo Games 

• 
Big Screen TV 

• 
Snack Bar 

• 
No Smoking Section 

• 
Friendly Attendants 

• 
Dry Cleaning/Drop Off 




(Appt. Recomd.l Includes shampoo & conditioner. Long hair &
65 Years 
specialty wraps
Total Experience 
higher.

Euro Tan Tanning Beds 
• A Free Color TV 
• Dry Cleaning Service • Drop Off Laundry Service 
[UP] 

Enter Our Drawings! ~ 
C~s ~~ " r
Shopping~ .!' --------­
-OOUPON--COUPON­
I Center ~ 111'~ 
I
World., Greahut laundromat 
gI
1813 South Bend Ave., at Camput~ Shoppes Shopping Center D ,'!1

I \~ we c.are llair .~4
(Behind Werntz llardware) I Fr..k's ~ I I
I Reel Hots

Open 7-Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM _g I At Campus Shoppes 1811 South Bend Ave.
50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry Shopping Center 
-?~-----------------r-1 HAIRCUT 
regular 65$ il pound I OPEN7-DAYS 271-7674 No Appointments
-COUPON-
Same Day Service 


~---------------~-­


Today 

Saturday, August 22, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
TI-I£RtFoRf, AT 1\ MINIMA-l £'1,P£NGE, I WIU HAf'PIL'/ WATC.H 0 veR YCAX<. 
BAI3ES ~r I 
~owo'{, MoMS 11ND ME.I\1\J DAlJ&li+I!:RS Dp,\)5! W£LL,THIS 15 Tl-1 E B1G DAy, ToDAt youR CHILD ENTERS n+E Bltil ·SOMtTIM65 5CRRY-WORlD 
OF Ct>UEM UF£. 

BILL WATIERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 


"Go back to sleep, Chuck. You're just havin' a nightmare-of course, we are still in hell." 
MENU 

NOTRE DAME
CROSSWORD 
Saturday

Shrimp Creole over Rice
compos1t1on locale? 

1 K1nd of sch. 
Grilled Pork Chops
58 New Jersey f1ve 4 Fossil fuel 
32 Rece1ver. 

Red Bliss Potatoes
59 S1xth-centuryfrequently 

8 Fam. member date 
Corn

35 Fathers? 11 Pub quaffs 
60 "Bus Stop" 
Sunday
37 Manipulate playwright13 Kemelman·s 

Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich
fraudulently 61 U.S.N A. graddetective 

Broiled Turbot 
38 Dnfts 62 "W1sdom is 14 Gael 

Meatless Baked Ziti 
40 Slalom -"·Swift 15 Player's place? 
obstacles 63 A Kennedy 
Monday

11 Salinger girl 42 Yellow1sh tan 
Top Round of Beef 
18 Alligator pear 43 England s ­
Chicken Teriyaki
DOWN

19 Fourth Estate? of Court 
Baked Noodle Casserole
21 ··The quality of 44 Architecture 1 Pucc1ni s "-­--...":Shak critiC Huxtable 
Butterfly.. 

etal 2 Cricket team thread fineness 48 Occurrences 3 Cause of gout? 4 Roman 
22 Measure of 
Hey you!
23 Kitty sweller so Parisian pupil statesman24 Hooks' partners 51 Coney Island 
5 Ben (--Wan)
attractions?

26 Washed 
Kenobi in "Star 29 Hogarth's "The 
53 Nostrum Wars" 

Yeh, you!
--Progress.. 55 Tennis score 
6 Dwelling places 7 Irish export &Waiter? 9 Charitable gift 
10 Salt Lake City 

If you're interested in 
team 12 Pele's sport 30 Confused 41 Deli purchase 

becoming a part of the coolest 
U Disencumber 
31 Ventures at 43 Reflexive 14 Food named for Vegas pronoun 

organization on campus, stop 
a goddess 32 Bel Kaufman·s 45 Penny? 16 Utter "Love.-·· 
46 Exact 20 Covered with 33 Org. opposing saliSfaction 

by The Observer on the third 
f1ne ha~r gun-control 

47 P1casso·s "Dora 54 "-was go1ng
220mens? laws 

floor of Lafortune or our booth 
Maar-·· to St. lves 
24 Stretches the 34 Supenor 
49 Can1o s wife 57 Kind of bk 
budget qualit1es? 

at Activities Night coming 
25 Affirmative 36 Japanese ep•c f1lm Answers to any three clues in th1s 

soon to the JACC. 
aria 39 Pulitzer-winn•ng puzzle are available by touch-tone 
•
28 Br1ard or b1ographer phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75c each BasenJI 1933 and 1937 minute). 


Subscribe to The Observer! 
Keep up with the latest happenings from under the Dome. Name 
Mail to:  
Address  The Observer P.O. BoxQ  
Get all the news that affects your Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student for $30 a semester of $50 for a year.  City  State  Zip  Notre Dame, IN 46556  

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Sports
page 20 Saturday, August 22, 1992 

• 
Early season tests loom for young men's soccer team
MIKE 
SCRUDATO 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Random Thoughts 

Last year, the Notre Dame men's soccer team proved 1--------------~ that it could play with the
There is more than football under the 
Golden Dome 
As students return to campus one 

thing on everyone's mind is football, 
but let me remind you that it is not the 
only team with national title 
aspirations. 
The men's soccer team is ranked 
20th in Soccer America's preseason 
Top 20 and opens its season a week 
from today with an exhibition contest 
against fifth-ranked Indiana. The tough 
early season will continue the following 
weekend at the Met Life Classic in 
Bloomington, where the Irish will face 
fourth-ranked UCLA and thirteenth­
ranked Duke. 
Notre Dame then begins Midwestern Collegiate Conference play. The Irish lost the MCC championship game 2-0 to Evansville in 1991, but are the favorites to take the conference crown and automatic NCAA Tournament bid this season. 
The women's soccer team is also favored to win the MCC title. Unfortunately, they will not receive an automatic bid if they do so. However, with an impressive freshman class and a lot of experienced players, do not be surprised if the Irish capture the at­large bid which narrowly alluded them last year. 
A third Notre Dame team which should contend for an MCC championship is the volleyball team, which returns four top seniors from 1991's 26-10 team. 
The cross-country team could also produce some NCAA participants. Eva Flood should contend for the women, while former All-Americans John Coyle and Mike McWilliams will attempt to earn the honor again. 
Though all these sports head into seasons filled with promise, the highest ranked is still the football team, which is ranked third in the USA Today/CNN Coaches' Poll. 
This season, for the first time in a while, no undergraduate (except for fifth-year seniors) has experienced a national championship as a Notre Dame student. 
This includes the players themselves. As Lou Holtz said during my freshmen orientation, students come to Notre Dame expecting to witness at least one national title. 
This year could very well be the year. Not only do the Irish have virtually their entire defense back and two Heisman Trophy candidates, Jerome Bettis and Rick Mirer, on offense, but for the first time in several years, they have the schedule on their side. 
It's not an easy schedule, but it's one you can win a national championship with. 
Gone from it are bowl teams Indiana, Air Force and Tennessee, as well as, the vacation to Hawaii. They are re­placed with perennial Big 10 doormat, Northwestern, Ty Detmer-less Brigham Young and an up-and-coming Boston College squad. 
The games against Michigan and 
see RANDOM I page 14 nation's best teams. 
This year, Soccer America 
a~~:sthe first time ever, the Irish enter a campaign ranked among the nation's elite.But third-year coach Mike Berticelli doesn't put much faith in his team's 2Oth ranking. "I think of it like my math classes in high school," he said. "I knew I had an A at the beginning of the year, but after a few tests I knew where I really stood. We're concerned with where we are at the end of the season, not at the beginning." 

His team will face its share of tests this season, beginning next Saturday with an exhibi­tion game against national powerhouse Indiana at the Golden Boot Classic. 
The following weekend the Irish will face another trial by fire against perennial powers UCLA and Duke in the Adidas Met Life Classic in Bloomington. 
"You have to play the best schedule possible," Berticelli said. "Playing good teams is the only way to get better, and it will show us where we stand early in the season." 
With a roster full of freshmen and sophomores, those early-season tests appear even more formidable, but with nine starters and seventeen lettermen returning, the Irish are more experienced than their age 
A typical preseason for the Irish 
DuBose ineligible; ranked 3rd 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
The summer of 1992 was one of promise for Lou Holtz's Fighting Irish. Most preseason polls picked Notre Dame, lifted by quarterback Rick Mirer's decision to return for his senior season, as one of the top three teams in the country, including the USA Today/ CNN Coaches Poll which has the Irish third. 
But the Irish's lucky star fell earlier this week, when an NCAA 
The Observer/ Jake Peters 
investigation of 

Junior Willie Clark carries the ball during Wednesday's afternoon practice session. Clark has returned to 
linebacker Demetrius 

tailback this season after spending the majority of last season in the Notre Dame defensive backfield. 

DuBose was reported 
Dame alumni, was
in the Los Angeles 
reported in the Times
Times. Under NCAA 
to have loaned DuBose
guidelines, the 
about $5,000. 
University declared 
Though the Notre
DuBose ineligible 
Dame Athletic
pending an appeal. 
Department has em­
The primary focus of 
phasized that the
the investigation is a 
correct amount of the
loan made to DuBose 
loan was $600, it has
by a couple in DuBose's 
acknowledged that a
hometown of Seattle. 
violation has occurred.
The couple, both Notre 
But the university is 
The Observer/ Jake Peters Janellle Karlan works out yesterday as the volleyball team prepares for its season. 
shows. 

Senior captain Mario Tricoci leads the list of starters returning from last year's 13­5-2 team. Also returning is sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader, 1991's MCC Newcomer of the Year.Sophomore Jean Joseph, who led the Irish with 11 goals last year, will be the key to what could be an explosive offense. Classmate Tim Oates is another proven performer up front and highly-touted freshman Bill Lanza is expected to see a lot of time at forward. 
In the midfield, the talent is almost overflowing. Sophomores Tont Richardson, Jason Fox and Ray Prado and junior Mike Palmer return and freshmen Shawn Bryden, Eric Ferguson, Ben Ketchum and Josh Landman will also compete for playing time. 
"All these guys will see a lot of playing time, because the midfield is where most of our depth is," Berticelli said. Most of the freshmen will probably see some quality playing time this season. 
For the second straight sea­son, Berticelli has attracted one of the nation's best group of freshmen.Lanza, last year's Virginia Gatorade Player of the Year, is considered the cream of the crop, but each of the seven recruits could make an impact. 
"We're young, but that is the basis of our program right now," Berticelli explained. "Young players offer a lot of positives to the team, they have the ability and they are also very enthusiastic." 
Irish soccer fans are very enthusiastic about the 1992 season. 

appealing the ineligibility ruling based upon the couple's unique rela­tionship with DuBose, whom they knew before his recruitment by the Irish at Bishop O'Dea High School in Seattle. 
DuBose, a two-year starter who led the Irish with 127 tackles last season, is a con­tender for the 1992 Butkus and Lombardi awards, given to the nation's top linebacker and lineman, respectively. 
Holtz and DuBose have both refused to comment on the matter. 
This is not the first incidence of preseason problems for DuBose. Last season, both he and Mirer were cited by South Bend police for public intoxication at an off-campus party during the first week of classes. 
But both returned to face Indiana in the season opener, and 
see IRISH/ page 16 

Volleyball still improving 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
With the first match quickly approaching, the Notre Dame volleyball team is gearing up to try to improve upon last year's season. 
The Irish completed their first 20-win season since 1987 with a 26-10 record as well as finishing second in the National Invitational Volleyball Championships to close the campaign. 
This season officially starts on September 1 at 7:30 p.m. when the Irish take on Ball State at home, but the team has been practicing twice a day for over a week. 
Second-year head coach Debbie Brown is happy with the preseason practices. 
"So far we have had a pretty good preseason," said Brown. "We've made some real good progress." 
The Irish will have a few spots to fill with the loss of Jennie Bruening, Chris Choquette, Katie Kavanaugh and Jen Slosar to graduation. Fortunately for Notre Dame, the team is returning a strong core of players. 
"Each year presents a new challenge," said Brown. "The seniors were valuable and important parts of the team, but they are not irreplaceable. The returning starters and underclassmen are very competitive, have good skills and are good athletes." 
The volleyball team will also have two new comers this year in Shannon Tuttle and Brett Hensel. Tuttle is a setter while Hensel is an all-around player with strengths in defense and passing. 
Providing leadership for the team will be senior captain Alicia Turner. The outside hitter will be a major 
see VOLLEY I page14 








