The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 46 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Candidates charge through final day of campaigning 
Bill Clinton charged confi­dently through a final, grueling day of campaigning on Monday, beckoning voters to "embrace new ideas" after 12 years of Republican presidents. George Bush predicted a poll-defying upset, and attacked his rival to the end as "slippery when wet." 
Ross Perot purchased two hours of election-eve network advertising and skewered both his rivals as men who "don't know how to create jobs, don't know how to manage money,. don't know how to build busi­nesses." 
Democracy's most sacred rite was already under way in Texas, where polling places 
ROTC aids in NO Ave. clean up 
By MAURA HOGAN News Writer 
ROTC members joined forces with the Northeast Neighbor­hood Center on Saturday to clean up Notre Dame Avenue as part of a Navy ROTC Bravo Company service project. 
The group assisted in a vari­ety of tasks, including cleaning the rubbish that had accumu­lated in the Center basement, washing the windows on the second floor, and clearing trees and trash from a Center-owned vacant lot. 
They also scrubbed graffiti at nearby Kelley Park and as­sisted a family on Madison Street who had been cited by code for garage disrepair. 
The Notre Dame Avenue neighborhood, in the past a popular choice for student off­campus housing. has deterio­rated in recent years due to in­creased crime and drug-traffic. Andres Rodriguez, a member of the ROTC Bravo Company, in conjunction with the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and Anne Bockencamp director of Neighborhood Housing Ser­vices, saw the need for renova­tion and repair and arranged a company service project target­ing the neighborhood's needs. 
"It was a total success," said Rodriguez. "It's not a great neighborhood -a couple years ago, students were getting at­tacked down there -so it really felt good to go down there and have university students work­ing to help." 
Bockencamp also praised the students' enthusiasm. "We had a good turnout," she said. "We expected forty-five (students) but we got about fifty or fifty-five." Rodri'guez estimated that about forty students participated. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Center was chartered in 1979 as nonprofit neighborhood service organization with the help of the Notre Dame Law School. It is a recognized member of the Northeast United Church Cluster and provides such neighborhood services as a food and clothes bank, a senior citizens' noon lunch, a tax clinic. a blood pressure clinic and tutoring in conjunction with ND/SMC students. 
opened on Oct. 14. Officials said more than one million voters had already marked their bal­lots. 
Nationwide, there were es­timates that the votes could to­tal 100 million on Tuesday, not only to pick a president, but 35 senators, a new House of Rep­resentatives, a dozen gover­nors, and countless state and local leaders, as well. 
Clinton was the leader in all the nationwide polls as the three rivals reached for the finish line, and single-state surveys showed him running strongly in the key industrial battlegrounds that often are decisive in the Electoral Col-


ELECTION 192 
• ND mock election I page 9 
lege. 
The Arkansas governor, 13 months on the road, tested the limits of human endurance with his last and longest day as a candidate -29 hours of campaigning through nine states before returning home to Little Rock. Aboard his jet was his physH;ian, Dr. James Y. Suen, to offer treatment for a cracking voice. 

He issued his call for change over and over. 
Outside a diner in Philadel­phia, he said the election was a "fight between the comfort of the status quo and the courage to embrace new ideas." 
"We must have a new eco­nomic policy," he said later in Ohio. "No more trickle down, not tax and spend, but put the American people first, invest in our jobs, control our health care costs, provide education to all our people. And we can be the greatest country in the world forever." 
Clinton linked himself to America's heroes, telling sup­porters that when they vote on Tuesday, they could honor the ideas of Jefferson and Wash­ington, the sacrifice of Lincoln, the optimism of the Roosevelts, and "the commitment to the fu­ture of John Kennedy." 
Bush set six stops to end his last campaign in a 26-year ca­reer that took him from the gritty oil business in Texas to the pinnacle of power in Washington. "No Way, Bill, no way," he said as he started out. "I am going to win this election tomorrow." 
He said his rival was "slippery when wet," trouble waiting to happen on economic policy, and the possessor of a flawed character, as well. 
Hesburgh to receive award 
Special to the Observer 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, 
president emeritus of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame, will re­
ceive the National Service Life­
time Achievement Award on 
Friday, Nov. 6 at the SuperCon­
ference '92 in Washington, D.C. 
The first major national meet­
ing focusing on the role of 
young people in community 
service, SuperConference '92 is 
a collaborative effort of Youth 
Service America, United Way of 
America, StarServe, the Points 
of Light Foundation, and the 
Assembly of National Voluntary 
Health and Social Welfare Or­
ganizations, Inc. 
Conference activities, sched­
uled for Thursday through Sat­
urday at the Washington Hilton 
and Towers, will include Father 
Hesburgh and other national 
leaders meeting with a cross­
section of American youth to 
discuss education, community 
service, leadership and 
outreach challenges and initia­
tives. 
Notre Dame's president form 
1952 to 1987, Father Hesburgh 
was and remains actively en­
gaged in a wide variety of 
causes including higher educa­
see HESBURGH I page 4 


WHERE TO VOTE ~;~age 1 
Little Flower  ACC Gate 10  Alumni Hall  Mission House  
Church Hall CLAY2 Fischer Grad Res. FlannerHall Grace Hall Knott Hall O'Hara-Grace Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Siegfried Hall  Portage 18 Breen Phillips Hall Cavanaugh Hall Farley Hall Fire House Keenan Hall St. Edwards Hall Stanford Hall Zahm Hall  Architecture Bldg Badin Hall Brownson Hall Carroll Hall Columba Hall Corby Hall Decio Hall Dillon Hall Fatima Retreat Fisher Hall Hesburgh Center Holy Cross House Howard Hall  Moreau Seminary Morrissey Hall Old College Pangbom Hall Presbytery Retreat House ROTC BuildingSorin Hall St. Joseph Hall Student Health Walsh hall Wilson Commons  
International Peace  
Lewis Hall  
Lyons Hall  

By JOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame received a challenge grant from The Kresge Foundation totalling $750,000 to assist in the renovation of the Nieuw­land Hall of Science. 
The money will be used to expand and renovate the build­ing's chemistry teaching labs and to acquire new chemical instrumentation for the De­partment's programs. 
The project is slated to begin in the spring of 1993 and is expected to be completed later in the year, said Paul Helquist, chair of the chemistry and biochemistry departments at Notre Dame. 
As a challenge grant, the Kresge money is to be used in conjunction with funds gar­nered from other sources, said Helquist. "The Kresge Founda­tion has offered to commit $750,000 towards this project as a challenge to other sources, both public and private, to pro­vide the remainder of the fund­ing." 
A condition of the challenge grant is that the University must raise the remaining $2,559,437 needed for comple­tion of the project. So far Notre 
see GRANT I page 4 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 



British election should serve as an example 

On April 9th, the people of Great Britain had a choice to make, and ironically, their choices were pretty similar to the ones American voters will be making today. 


The Labour Party was  Rich Kurz  
fighting  the  tax-and- Associate Sports Editor  
spend  liberal  image,  

trying to recapture the all important middle­class vote. The Conservatives, much like our Republicans, had been in power since 1979 when Ronald Reagan's cold-warrior pal Maggie Thatcher became Prime Minister. And while Paddy Ashdown, leader of the Liberal Democrats, was a far cry from Ross Perot, the existence of a third party gave voters a protest vote. 
In the weeks leading up to the election, Neil Kinnock, then-leader of the Labour Party, was on the offensive. He attacked John Major, the Prime Minister, for his conservative economic policies and focused the blame for the British recession, which has seen unemployment around 10%, on Major. 
As the Conservatives struggled to strike back, looking weak and futile in the process, Labour built a commanding lead in the polls (which, unfortunately, were as annoying in the U.K. as they are here). 
Kinnock assumed a smug demeanor, his confidence growing with the Labour lead. The nation prepared for a change of government. 
But in the fmal few days before the vote took place, something odd happened. Conservative attacks finally took root in the minds of the voters, and their scare tactics urged the electors not to take a risk on an unknown commodity. 
The Labour lead plummeted in ·the couple o days before the election and the Conservatives managed to pull out a win in the election, giving the country a few more years of the same. Now, more than a few voters in Great Britain wish they could change their votes. 
Major's new policies have proved vastly unpopular, prompting a huge demonstration outside Parliament. His unfavorable rating has soared to 77%. 
What are the implications for American voters? First, acknowledging that the specific economic problems plaguing Britain are different than America's, the trend is that the economic policies of the conservative leaders o both cou·ntries have failed. 
The Conservative Party in the United Kingdom was able to scare voters, not by promising to make things better, but by telling the public that Labour would make them worse. Sound familiar? 
As you head to the polls today, keep this in mind. Twelve years has been enough to make a decision about conservative tendencies. If you don't like the way the country is going, don't let the propaganda machines scare you into voting for the status quo. 
The British people did, and they now regret it. Fortunately for the British, governments don't always serve their full terms. It isn't uncommon for Prime Ministers to step down i dissatisfaction gets out of control. But in America, we're stuck for four years. Don't be bullied. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

Production  News  
Peggy Crooks  Becky Barnes  
Bryan Nowicki  Jennifer Habrych  
Sports  Systems  
Brian Kubicki  Harry Zembillas  
Accent  Business  
Mara Davis  Pancho Lozano  
Sarah Doran  Kenya Johnson  
Graphics  
Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

~-~----------­
Tuesday, November 3,1992 
The Observer 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy with a 
50 percent chance of 
rain. Cooler. ijjgh in 
the high 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L 
Anchorage 27 11 
Atlanta 71 58 
Bogota 69 34 
Boston 56 43 
Cairo 86 64 
Chicago 46 36 
Cleveland 47 39 
Dallas 73 61 
Detroit 48 32 
Indianapolis 50 45 
Jerusalem 77 63 
London 55 45 
Los Angeles 67 57 
Madrid 59 43 
Minneapolis 45 40 
Moscow 30 14 
Nashville 62 59 
New York 56 42 
Paris 46 68 
Philadelphia 58 45 
Seattle 53 48 
South Bend 54 38 
Tokyo 68 52 
Washington, D.C. 61 48 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

© 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STC?RMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
..... ·····..·.·.·.·.·.;.·.·.··.· 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Group ups reward for Rushdie's death 
•NICOSIA, Cyprus-An Iranian religious group is boosting its $2 million reward for the killing of British author Salman Rushdie, a Tehran newspaper said Mon­day. The Khordad 15 Foundation said it increased the reward because of a public appearance Rushdie made last week in which he asked Germany to intercede with Iran to annul the death sentence, the newspaper Jomhouri Islami said. It did not say how much the reward was increased. 
NATION 
Woman found to really be alive 

•SEATTLE -A woman who had been declared dead by the coroner was discovered still breathing at the fu­neral home. Roberta Jones, 68, was listed in serious condition today at Harborview Medical Center. Jones had been found on the floor of her cold apartment Sunday. Paramedics thought she was dead, and an investigator for the medical examiner's office agreed. She was wrapped in a sheet and taken in a warm car to the funeral home. "When we moved her from the car on a stretcher, one of my employees saw what he thought was a breath," said Paul Lewis, president of Columbia Funeral Home. Fire Department spokeswoman Georgia Taylor said hypothermia, or extremely low body· temperature, sometimes causes a coma that resembles death. 
OF INTEREST 

•Interested 
in Business School? 'Dean Waddick will speak on MBA programs, financial aid and other topics related to continuing (or starting) your business education tonight at 6 p.m. in Room 115 O'Shaughnessy. Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. All are welcome. 

•Notre 
Dame Magazine, a student-produced televi­sion show airs tonight at 9 p.m. on channel 31. It will include stories on the filming of "Rudy," Notre Dame walk-ons, the Notre Dame tutoring program and a political discussion between Clinton and Bush advocates. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING November 2 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
201,621,000 +1.91 to 232.48 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+4.07 to 422.75 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS I! 
+35.93 to 3,262.21 



I · :
UNCHANGED 535 


GOLD + $0.50 to $340.60 I 
SILVER 
I 

+ $0.03 to $3.792 L------________J-' 
Protein may block AIDS virus 
•DURHAM, N.C.-Researchers say they have created a protein fragment that stopped the AIDS virus from infecting human cells in laboratory tests. But they cau­tioned that a new drug against AIDS could still be far off. The researchers at Duke University Medical Center said the fragment blocked the virus from entering human immune cells and also stopped infected cells from killing healthy cells. John Moore, a researcher at the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center in New York, said the that work is "an extremely good piece of science." However, he noted that what works in the laboratory may not work in people. 
INDIANA 

Working students get lower grades 
•MUNCIE, 
Ind.-A Ball State University study re­leased Monday shows that after-school jobs can be haz­ardous to high school students' grades. But a professor who coordinated the study said work can actually be good for students, as long as the hours are restricted. The survey of 5,600 students in six non-urban, central Indiana school districts found that employed students generally received lower grades on report cards than their non-working classmates, said Jay Thompson, a professor of educational leadership. Students in grades 8-12 who worked received more than 7 5 percent of the Cs, Ds, and Fs given during the 1991-92 school year. 

•Inner-City 
Teaching Corps member and former ND graduate, Aneel Chablani '92, will be on campus with information on the program. He will be in the library concourse Wednesday Nov. 4 from 2 to 5 p.m., and there will be a joint information session from 7 to 8 


p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
•A Memorial Service will be held for Danielle Zock (Class of '94) Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Regina Chapel at Saint Mary's. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1839: The first Opium War between China and Britain erupted as two British frigates and a fleet of war junks clashed off the Chinese coast. 

• 
In 1903: Panama declared independence from Colombia. 

• 
In 1957: The Soviet Union launched Sputnik II into orbit, carrying a dog named Laika. 

• 
In 1986: Ash-Shiraa, a pro-Syrian Lebanese magazine, first broke the story of U.S. arms sales to Iran, which escalated into the Iran-Contra affair. 

• 
In 1991 : A poll released by the Boston Globe and the Harvard School of Public Health said that most people favor physician-assisted suicide for terminally ill patients who request it. 


Tuesday,November3, 1992 The Observer 
Wilmouth new chair of Guild 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
Robert Wilmouth, a Notre Dame trustee, will succeed NO's Vice-president Emeritus Father Edmund Joyce as chairman of the University's Badin Guild, a project of the Notre Dame Development Office that encourages donors to name Notre Dame a beneficiary in their wills. 
The Guild, with the help of attorney Chris Carlin, Devel­opment Office director, secures gift appropriations and estate planning from donors. It has more than 425 members whose combined planned gift commitments to Notre Dame exceed $105 million. 
Without the Badin Guild and the Sorin Society, which in­cludes about 5,000 donors of at least $1,000 per year, tuition would be at least twice what it is, said Joyce. 
Wilmouth's duties as chairman include encouraging people to use estate planning and setting up meetings in large cities to inform potential donors about the Guild. 
"We are delighted to have Robert Wilmouth to take on this job. They could not have picked a better person," said Joyce. 
Wilmouth, a Chicago resi­dent, received a master's de­gree from Notre Dame in 1950. He has five children, all of whom attended Notre Dame. "I used the Badin Guild as an opportunity to make ND the sixth child in my will," said Wilmouth. 
Wilmouth, who has a 27-year banking career history, is chairman of LaSalle National Bank, director of the Private Export Funding Corporation and the Economic Club of Chicago, and a member of the advisory council of the graduate school of management at Northwestern University. 
Wilmouth was elected to serve a two-year term following Joyce, who has chaired the Badin Guild since its establish­ment in 1987. 

CIA: Italian bankers involved in Iraqi loans 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The CIA told the Agriculture Department that Italian bankers were involved in loans to Iraq in the 1980s by an Atlanta bank branch, says a congressional letter released Monday that cites a CIA document. 
If true, the CIA's information would further undermine the Justice Department's case against the Atlanta bank man­ager who has been accused of providing the $5.5 billion in loans illegally. 
The loans were illegal be­cause, prosecutors say, they were given without proper au­thorization from the bank's home office in Rome and be­cause they exceeded Iraq's credit limit. The U.S. Depart­ment of Agriculture has been investigating the loans because about $700 million of the total was guaranteed by the U.S. 
Keep Smiling, Dolly! You're 21! 
(Don't you miss the old days?) 
Love, 
Calvin, Hobbes, 
Mom, Dad, & Mike 
Dead or alive, AITierica's "favorite icon-


DEAD ELVIS 
A CHRONICLE OF A CULTURAL OBSESSION 

GRElL MARCUS 
At last in paperback-wherever books are sold (f) !.:~.~e,:,,~~.?,.~~ 
government under a farm credit program for Iraq. 
The CIA and Justice Depart­ment's handling of the politi­cally charged case has drawn severe criticism from Atlanta federal Judge Marvin Shoob, who accused both agencies of withholding information from the court. 
Congressional Democrats al­lege that the Bush administra­tion is trying to shield the Ital­ian government from involve­ment in the loans and trying to cover up its own role to avoid scrutiny. 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Doing laundry 
Charlie Krantz, a freshman from Zahm Hall, checks the label of the laundry detergent before adding it to his laundry. 



Court allows grandparents visitation rights 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court, for the second time in three weeks, today left intact a state law that provides grandparents with visitation rights to their grandchildren even when the children's par­ents object. 
The justices, without com­ment, rejected arguments that a Wisconsin law unconstitu­tionally interferes with parents' right to raise their children as they wish. 
The court on Oct. 19 left intact a similar Kentucky law. All states have enacted such laws in recent years. 
The Wisconsin dispute arose in Sauk County over visitation rights to a girl, identified in court documents by the initials C.G.F., who now is almost seven years old. 

After the girl's father died in 1988, his parents continued to visit her and her mother, their daughter-in-law. 
Court documents identified the girl's mother by the initials T.F. and her paternal grandparents by the initials H.F. and F. F. 
As the relationship between the girl's grandparents and her mother grew strained, her mother refused to let the grandparents visit. 
T.F. remarried in 1990, and the girl's stepfather sought to adopt her. About the same time, her grandparents invoked a Wisconsin law in seeking visitation privileges. 
Two state courts ruled that the 
Back by popular demand•.• 
Beat the Clock Tuesday! 
5:00pm, 7:30pn1 Every Tuesday 
•
lS 




Free Delivery 
271--1177 
grandparents' visitation rights to C.G.F. would halt if she were adopted by her stepfather, but the Wisconsin Supreme Court reversed those rulings last May. 
The grandparents' visitation rights could be ordered, if found to be in the child's best interests, after the adoption and over her parents' objections, the state Supreme Court ruled. 
In the appeal acted on today, lawyers for T. F. and her hus­band, identified as D.L., said the state court ruling "undermines the fundamental rights of the parents." 
Related "to the fundamental freedom of marriage is the lib­erty interest that provides the right of parents to establish a home and bring up their chil­dren according to the dictates of their own conscience," the appeal argued. 
In response, lawyers for the girl's grandparents urged the justices to reject the parents' appeal. 
"Wisconsin has decided that the best interest of the child may include consideration of the grandparent-child relation­ship, a relationship honored in all societies but here reinforced by statute," the grandparents' lawyers said . 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. SOUTHERN CAL 
AIR ONLY 
or CDMPLETE PACKAGES with air from South Bend, hotel, and game tickets. 

271...4880 IF!\travelmore 
~Carlson Travel Network
-


--~-----------­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, November 3, 1992 
FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 



IDENTIFIED AS DON REESE 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 

For more information and a close up
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 

look at him, purchase your 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both 

tickets to see him perform at 
part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 

Washington Hall on
You are eligible for Summer 111 after you~ junior year of_ a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It 1~cludes e_xpenence 


November 6th at 8:00 p.m. 
on medical and surgical nursing units or m operatmg rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. 


General Admission
For more information contact: 





Producer of 'Laurel and Hardy' dies 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Hal Roach, the pioneering movie producer who launched the ca­reers of Harold Lloyd, Laurel and Hardy and other classic comedians, died Monday. He was 100. 
He died at his home in Bel-Air of pneumonia, said a friend, Richard Bann. 
Starting in films as a cowboy extra at $5 a day, Roach rose to command a comedy factory that produced hundreds of shorts including the Our Gang (Uttle Rascals) series. 
His career faded after World War II, but he remained a fa­miliar figure in Hollywood. Still vigorous in his 90s, the barrel­chested producer appeared at film festivals honoring his long career. He was honored on his centennial birthday earlier this year. 
Receiving an honorary Academy Award in 1984, he recalled how his film crews in the silent days lunched on two sandwiches and bananas and the property man saved the banana skins. Then anytime a Hal Roach comedian did a prat­fall, he slipped on a banana peel -and they slipped many times. 
"The great thing about it was that the bananas didn't cost me anything." 
During his heyday, Roach hired scores of comedians, in­cluding such accomplished but now little-known performers as Charley Chase, James Finlayson and Anita Garvin. But his greatest combination was Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy. 


In 1968, Roach commented on why Laurel and Hardy re­mained popular: "It's because there's a lack of their kind of comedy. People appreciate them more now because they haven't got any competition. It seems to me that people have been laughing at things that aren't funny because they're dyin' to laugh." 
Born in Elmira, N.Y., on Jan. 14, 1892, he spent his early years mining for gold and running mule trains in Alaska and driving a truck in Seattle. 


Grant 
continued from page 1 
Dame has received contribu­tions of over $6 million, said Helquist. 
"We are grateful to The Kresge Foundation both for its 


Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 

tion, human rights, peace stud­ies, Third World development, environmental issues and ec­umenism. 
He has held 15 presidential appointments over the years 
Ill 

generous challenge grant and tions like Notre Dame and for its endorsement of this im­other non-profit organizations portant project," said Father with funding," Helquist said. Edward Malloy, president of Notre Dame. The Foundation's last chal­
The Kresge Foundation is an lenge grant to Notre Dame was independent, private founda­for $500,000 in support of the tion created by the personal University's Center for Bio­gifts of Sebastian Kresge. "The engineering and Pollution Con­foundation is a charitable trust trol. for providing academic institu­
and has received numerous Rev. Edward Malloy, is a honors, including the United founding director of the Points Way's 1980 Alexis de Toc­of Ught Initiative Foundation. queville Society Award for vol­untarism. His newest book, "Travels with Ted and Ned," has just been published by Doubleday and is available in bookstores nationwide. 
Father Hesburgh's successor, 

Arson investigator jailed for setting fires like in book 
FRESNO, Calif. (AP) -An arson investigator was sen­tenced Monday to 30 years in federal prison for setting fires nearly identical to ones he de­scribed in an unpublished novel. 
U.S. District Judge Oliver Wanger described John Leonard Orr, 43, as "a danger to the community" in handing down the maximum sentence on three counts of arson. 
Orr, then a captain with the Glendale Fire Department, was charged with setting five fires while in the San Joaquin Valley for an arson investigators' con­ference in January 1987. 
A jury acquitted him of setting two fires in Fresno, but found him guilty of fires prosecutors claimed he set while returning home to Southern California. The judge ordered Orr to make $225,971 restitution for those 


Anna Ursano­
It's all over but the celebrating! 
Happy lf1ll Birthday! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Amv, and the gang. 

FOUND 
#' 
three fires. 
He still faces trial in Los An­geles on charges of setting fires along the Pacific Coast during another arson investigators' conference in 1989. 
In the Fresno trial, prosecu­tors introduced as evidence a novel that Orr, 43, wrote in 1990 about an arson investiga­tor attending a conference who set fires in Fresno, Bakersfield and Tulare. 
One fictional fire in his book, "Point of Origin," was in a KMart shopping center; so was one of the real fires. Two fabric stores set on fire in the book belonged to the same chain; so did two stores involved in real fires. And the incendiary de­vices were similar. 
Prosecutors also said Orr's fingerprint was found on part of a device used to start one of the fires. 


Mayo Medical Center 

Tickets are on sale now at the 
Nursing Recruitment 
P.O. Box 6057 


LaFortune Information Desk 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903 1-800-247-8590 

for only $3. 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmdtive act1on and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke-free institution. L_________________________j 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------~------------~~--------------­


Tuesday, November 3, 1992 The Observer 

U.N.: All indifferent to relief 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze-r--------------.families in the Travnik area, govina (AP) -U.N. officials BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA and that 2o.ooo people had 
Monday launched a large-scale Government steadily loses !;!round in 
relief effort for a new wave of heavy fighting north of SaraJevo. Bosnian refugees in the north Areas of control and complained that all the CJGovernment c:::J Croat !ill] Serb combatants were callously hin­dering their efforts. 
"Nobody is condemned to death this winter if there is a little bit of cooperation from the warring sides," said Jose Maria Mendiluce, special representa­tive of U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). 
"We need a little goodwill, a little humanitarian behavior from the sides, or they will be responsible for the human tragedy," he told a news con­ference in Sarajevo, Bosnia's capital. "If it continues this way, there will be many, many casualties this winter." 
UNHCR today began ferrying thousands of blankets, tents, stoves, mattresses, food and winter clothing south from Za­greb, the Croatian capital, to the Adriatic port of Split. From there they will be sent overland 
~---------'medicine, food and shelter. to the vicinity of Travnik. -~~~~-APNim. J. Castello 
Thousands of refugees are the fall of nearby Jajce to Serb congregating near that Bosnian forces. town, a bone-jarring, 80-mile Mendiluce said UNHCR buses drive northeast from Split, after were dispersing refugees to found refuge. However, another 1,500 spent the first night of November without shelter. 
Maj. Pyers Tucker, an officer on the staff of the U.N.'s com­mander for Bosnia, French Gen. Philippe Morillon, said British forces reported about 10,000 refugees had passed through Travnik on their way to the Bosnian government town of Zenica to the east. 
Another 10,000 or so re­mained in Travnik, and perhaps 15,000 more were expected to arrive from the north and northwest. 
Mendiluce said those arriving in Travnik apparently were not only from Jajce, but that residents were being forced by Serb units out of nearby areas as well. 
Aid officials have said hun­dreds of thousands of people could die in Bosnia during win­ter because of a lack of 
They complained bitterly to­day that their efforts to save lives throughout Bosnia were being hindered by the warring factions. 

Brother pleads guilty in wife-slaying mystery 
BOSTON (AP) -Matthew Stuart pleaded guilty Monday to helping hide the gun his brother allegedly used to kill his pregnant wife in a backfired hoax that inflamed racial ten­sion and gripped the nation. 
Stuart's unexpected plea was the latest twist in a story that led to one television movie and several books. It came as jury selection was about to start for Stuart's trial on charges of fraud and obstruction of justice. 
"I never knew of my brother's plan to murder his wife," Stuart, 26, told a crowded Suffolk Superior Court room after pleading guilty. 
Turning to face the victim's 



HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
'


JULIE 

18 atLAST! 

LOVE, 
MOM, DAD AND RYAN 
brother, he said: "I am truly sorry, and hope that my actions today will help heal some of the pain." 
Stuart pleaded guilty to con­cealing stolen property, com­pounding a felony, conspiracy to obstruct justice, insurance fraud and carrying a firearm. He was sentenced to three to five years in prison and placed on five years' probation. He will be eligible for parole after one year. The maximum possible sentence for the crimes was 27 1/2 years. 
Charles and Carol DiMaiti Stuart were discovered wounded in their car Oct. 23, 1989, after they left a childbirth class at a Boston hospital. Carol Stuart died that night and her son, Christopher, delivered in an emergency Caesarean sec­tion, died Nov. 9. 
Charles Stuart told police a black mugger was responsible. and police closed in on such a suspect until Stuart apparently 

1~======================:::J jumped to his death from a
I. bridge Jan. 5, 1990, one day _F_R_E_E_F~L"""""""'U~S~H~O~T~S ~i~r his brother implicated 


Eligibility 

Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, clergy, and retirees 


Dates 
Nov. 3, 4, 5 


Time 
10:00 .. 6:00 p.m. 



Locations 

Library Concourse LaFortune Student Center 

BE SURE TO BRING YOUR I.D. 

Offered by University Health Services with the support of Student Affairs and Human Resources 
The Observer/Sue Kehias 

Get out the vote 
Freshman Joshua Hodge hands sophomore Eric Nunes a ballot to vote in the mock election held yesterday by Student Government. 
Police puzzled by the murder of an acquitted child abuser 
TACOMA, Wash. (AP)" -It had been two years since Kaare Sortland and his wife were acquitted of molesting children at their home day-care center, but the harassment never ended. 
So when Sortland was shot to death by a gunman in his back yard on Halloween, police naturally asked: Was it a case of vigilantism? 
"We just don't know," police Sgt. Mike Miller said Monday. "There's any number of possi­bilities that still exist." 
Detectives had interviewed most of the dozen or so parents who had accused the Sortlands of molesting children at their home-run Hugs and Kisses Day-Care Center during the 1980s. All their alibis checked out, and police had no suspects. 







MCAT 
ON NOVEMBER 5TH AT 6:30 TO 10:00 PM THERE WILL BE A MOCK MCAT GIVEN IN THE NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL ROOM 127. TO SIGN-UP FOR THIS TEST, CALL FR. WALTER AT x.6675 OR VISIT THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. THIS TEST WILL BE ANALYZED BY COMPUTER AND THE RESULTS MAY BE PICKED UP IN THE PRE-PROFESSIONAL OFFICE TWO WEEKS AFTER THE TEST. 
Other possibilities were being explored. Sortland was a supervisor at a construction firm, and the killer may have been someone upset over his work, Miller said. Or Sortland could have confronted a Hal­loween vandal who panicked and shot him. 
Hours before the killing, someone sprayed an obscenity in huge black letters across a back window of the Sortlands' home. Police don't know if that was connected to the killing. 
Sortland, 49, answered his back door about 7 p.m. Satur­day, police said. His wife, Judy, who was inside the house, told police she heard her husband shout something like, "I didn't do it!" just before several shots rang out. 
Sortland was shot several times in the chest and died later at Tacoma General Hospi­tal. 
"He made some brief, one-line statements," Sgt. Mike Miller said. "I have a hunch he knew who it was. Unfortunately, he didn't give us anything that specific.' 
The Sortlands were accused of molesting children ranging in age from about 18 months to 4 years at their now-defunct day-care center. Charges were filed in three cases. 
Scholarships Available 
Call 

1-8 0 0-4 2 3-55 15 
For a recorded message giving details 
Shumate & Associates 
~ --------~--~---~---­
--~-~-------~---~-~-~-------------------­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, November 3, 1992 


Fighting in Angola despite new truce 
LUANDA, Angola (AP) -for about an hour after a police Sporadic gunfire flared in the armored car shelled UNITA capital Monday hours after a positions in Luanda's U.N.-brokered cease-fire took diplomatic quarter before effect, but witnesses said the dawn. Explosions and gunfire fighting was less intense than were also heard to the east of weekend clashes that threat­the capital, but witnesses said ened to renew the civil war. that firing died down at around 
Some civilians were reported 8 a.m. looting buildings that had been Officials estimated 200 people used by the National Union for died in the weekend fighting, the Total Independence of the worst outburst since Angola (UNITA) rebels. Police tensions began escalating after vehicles with loudspeakers UNITA lost national elections in cruised the streets appealing late September to the for an end to the shooting. government with which it 
A machine-gun battle raged fought a 16-year civil war. 
To be or not to be 
UNITED COLORS 
Stephen Fredman, associate professor of English, talks to prospective English majors about the re­quirements and opportunities in the English department at the English Meet Your Majors Night in O'Shaughnessy Hall last night. 
OF BENETTON. Liberian Archibishop condemns nuns' death 
MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) -said. As he spoke, nearly 20 Francis appealed to Taylor to The Roman Catholic archbishop nuns wept, their heads bowed allow the retrieval of the nun's of Monrovia condemned rebel and shoulders shaking. bodies, which have lain for leader Charles Taylor on "What have I done? What more than a week in a danger­Monday for shelling the be­have you done? What did the ous battle zone. sieged capital and blamed him sisters do?" he said. In an apparent warning to for the killing of five American Taylor has denied responsi­Taylor, he added, "Christ said, nuns. bility for the slayings, saying 'Those who live by the sword, 
Four people were reported the area around their convent die by the sword."' killed by a mortar shell an hour was controlled by rival rebels. Mourners in Sacred Heart before a requiem Mass for the But Francis said the blame for Cathedral turned to stare at the nuns began, and three others their deaths and the killings U.S. Embassy's charge died in a rocket attack later in inside Monrovia rests with d'affaires, William Twaddell, the day. A refinery was ablaze Taylor and his National Patri­when Francis urged the United two days after being hit by ar­otic Front of Liberia, the States to contact Taylor and ar­tillery fire. strongest rebel group. range for the recovery of the 
The seven-nation West "These sisters represent the bodies. "Let us give them a de­African military force that has thousands of men, women and cent burial," he said. been defending Monrovia for children that were slaughtered A diplomat, who spoke on two years announced it would in this war, which has no object condition of anonymity, said clear the city of armed Liberian other than power, wealth and there were no plans for getting factions that have been helping greed," the archbishop thun­the bodies out because of the fend off Taylor's fighters. dered. dangerous conditions. 
Gunmen in the groups have been accused of robbing and terrorizing people in the city, which has been swollen by refugees to twice its pre-war 
Anna Ursano­

population of 400,000. The West African comman­
It's all over but

ders said in a statement they would shoot looters or curfew­breakers on sight. The force 
the celebrating! 

has imposed a 6 p.m. to 8 a.m. curfew on Monrovia. 
Happy 2tJlh Birthday/

At the Mass for the Illinois nuns killed in a Monrovia sub­urb, Archbishop Michael Fran­
Love, 

cis lamented the rebel attacks that began in mid-October. 
Mom, Dad, Amy,

"It doesn't make sense that people will take rockets and 
and the gang.

rain them on our city," Francis 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 

We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo SpeciaJ,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 

Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
Friday, November 20 Saturday, November 21 

Foc more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you:
8:00p.m. 9:00p.m. 

SR 2.3 ~ lronwood/277-7744 US .31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1 024
A time of quiet and personal reflection, tile retreat will include opportunity for shared reflection. Presentations will focus on tile l•iblical texts of Advent. 

115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. 

Open 8 a.m. on home game daysl 
Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus 
Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
CALL BY FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, TO RESERVE A PLACE 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 239-8606 0Mf'US or Sharon at Pischer Community Center 239-8607. MNISTRY 

•All T wkey Based 

Tuesday, November 3, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Man with chess board in library arrested 
NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. (AP)­Forget Fischer and Spassky. Chess-lover Louis Taylor locked a librarian in a contest of wills, and was checked out in hand­cuffs. 
The 41-year-old unemployed graphics artist ignored a "No Board Garnes" order posted by his hometown library and got arrested. 
Taylor, who was charged with trespassing, said he feels he's been rooked. The library says it's a pawn. 
"Chess is not a more equal board game that any other board game," said LaRuth Gray, president of New Rochelle 
Public Library's board of trustees. 
"Mr. Taylor understands very well the rules of the library," she said. "This was not the first time he and other members of the public ... have tried to get the library to relax these rules." She declined to elaborate. 
Taylor said he's studied chess with an open board at other Westchester County libraries: One even served him milk and cookies. 
A City Court judge will referee the stalemated Game 1 of Library vs. Taylor; a pretrial hearing is set for Nov. 20. Look out for Game 2 -Taylor's threatened lawsuit. 
The New York City Public Li­brary welcomes chess readers and players, and some of its branches have reserved chess tables. It's unclear how many of the nation's 9,076 public li­braries allow chess boards. 
It's also unclear how many months Taylor had been cogi­tating over his chessboard in suburban New Rochelle, and how many times he may have been asked to stop. 
When the "No Board Garnes" signs went up one day in August, Taylor said, he rea­soned that "they can't mean chess, the king of games." He opened his board. He said he got "dirty looks" but no one reprimanded him. 

On Sept. 8, he tried again. A librarian told Taylor to pack up or leave. Taylor said he ignored her. The police were called. 
When they arrived, "I was sitting there in a suit and tie, still following my d2 to d4," Taylor said. 
"I said, 'You guys can carry me out, or put on the cuffs.' It was unintentionally comical. It was an amicable arrest, but still an arrest. I was handcuffed, stuffed into a police car and put in a urine-infected holding cell." 
One in 5 new cars perform poorly in safety crash test 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A driver or passenger would have suffered serious head injuries or died in nearly one of every five new cars that the government tested in head-on crashes, according to test re­sults released Monday. 
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said its results were based on 71 vehi­cles, all 1993 model designs, that underwent a 35-rnph head-on crash into a barrier. Nearly three dozen more 1993 model cars will be tested in the corning months. 
The tests showed that either the driver or front-seat pas­senger in 15 of the cars tested would have suffered life-threat­ening brain injuries as a result of the crash, despite use of a seat belt. 
In 15 other cars tested, the driver would have escaped with no serious injuries, although in some of those cases the front­seat passengers might have suffered moderate injuries, the agency said. 
The car with the worst crash test results was the two-door Oldsmobile Achieva, in which the driver would sustained a head impact causing almost certain death. Similar results were recorded in the Chevrolet Astro Van. 

In each case, the driver test dummy recorded a head injury criteria (HIC) of more than 2,000, or twice the level at which an occupant has a high risk of sustaining serious brain injury or death. 
The car with the best test re­sults was the four-door Volvo 240 sedan with a driver-side air bag in which the driver recorded a HIC of 282. 
\\\OL\CI\G llli·.CREFGIOB\LE<Jlllll-.S \CUll\llorSOL\DREIIRE.\lE\11\\tSrt\(, 

At TIAA-CREF, our goal has always.fl. been to make your retirement dollars go farther. Now, they can go as far as London, Frankfurt or Tokyo-or anywhere else in the world where fmancial oppor­tunities seem promising-with our new CREF Global Equities Account. 
THE CREF GLOBAL EQUITIES ACCOUNT EXPANDS THE HORIZON FOR RETIREMENT SAVINGS. 
The CREF Global Equities Account is an actively-managed portfolio of both foreign and domestic stocks selected for diversity and growth potential. As part of a wide range ofannuity and investment alternatives already offered by TIAA-CREF, it can increase your ability to create a more balanced, well-rounded retirement plan. While returns may vary over time, the CREF Global Equities Account is based on CREF's already-existing strength and the long-term approach to investing that has made TIAA-CREF America's preeminent pension organization. 
WHEN IT COMES TO FOREIGN INVESTING, WE'RE ON FAMILIAR GROUND. 
We've been speaking the language of foreign investing for nearly twenty years. That's when we pioneered investing pension funds on an international level. All those 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it!M 

years ofresearch, market analysis and cultivation of regional contacts have given us special insight into the risks and rewards oftoday's global marketplace. 
DISCOVER MORE ABOUT OUR NEW GLOBAL EQUITIES ACCOUNT. 
The CREF Global Equities Account is offered through your TIAA-CREF retire­ment annuities, subject to the provisions of your employer's retirement plan. It is auto­matically available for TIAA-CREF Supple­mental Retirement Annuities (SRAs). 
To fmd out more about the CREF Global Equities Account or TIAA-CREF's other annuity and investment alternatives, send for our free brochure. Or call 1 800-842-2776. 
You'll frnd that at TIAA-CREF, our world revolves around helping you build a secure and rewarding future. 
~---------------­
SENDFOR ~-
TiuOURCREF Global FREEEqUJ.'tiuBOOKLETAccount-•..:--­A Wor/i) ofOpportunity and learn more about this exciting new CREF Account. Mail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF. Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or calllS00-842-2776. 
• 
Nam~ (Please print) 
AiJJn.r.r 

Ctty Stat~ Ztp Cmk 
ln.rtllulwn (Full name) Daytinu Phon< ( 

TIAA·CREF Part~ri'pant Ifyu, Social Suurity tt 0 YtJ ONo 
Consenting Aduhs A 
5:15,7:30, 10:00 
Candyman A 
5:00, 7:00, 9:30 
The Last of the Mohicans A 

4:45, 7:15, 9:45 

CREF certif,cates are distributed by TIAA-CREF lndividua and Institutional Services. For more complete information, 
including charges and expenses, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 

page 8 The Observer Tuesday, November 3, 1992 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~ 
ELECTION '92 


Economy to determine election 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
In presidential campaigns domi­nated by issues of the economy, President George Bush has attempted to portray himself as the "safe" choice, Gov. Bill Clinton has promoted himself as the candidate for change, and independent candidate Ross Perot has taken advantage of public distaste 
~;f~~~~~~~~;~~~~ for politicians, said several Notre 
the fall campaigns. The economy and all that it en­
111111111111[:11111111 Dame professors in a final analysis of

compasses: jobs, health care, financial 

1 
. security and a sense of the future, weigh the heaviest on voters' minds 
this election, said Robert Schmuhl, associate professor of American studies. 
In part because of this concern, American voters have shown an in­creased interest in this election, as indicated by high ratings for the 
:o£#.1SY.t~:::::::l televised debates and the sharp in­crease in voter registration, said 
But voters have still not made defi­

~!,~~~···~~~~;~~~~~~ nite decisions, the professors agreed. 


liiiiililllSchmuhl.

1 Doug Kmiec, professor of the Law 
I 
ii'~~'+'lii{~J registration to Perot, who has man­
Itlitlrl~~~~'i~~~~~,~~~l~l~liilllllllllll 
Kmiec linked the increase in voter
aged to attract alienated voters by 
targeting their dislike for 

l 
~~ gested a genuineness of character by spending his own money. The state of the economy has also 
liiiiii~illiil ::}~~~~~~~r-~~~~~~ "professional politicians" and sug­
been among Clinton's main focuses, who uses it as a focal point of attack SchooI , expects peopIe "to be changing their minds on the way to the polling places," which Peri Arnold, chair of the government department, attributed to mobility of voters around Perot and Clinton. 
Perot's story of Republican dirty tricks has changed people's opinions and uncertainty still remains about Clinton, said Arnold. 
This uncertainty may help Bush's position, said Kmiec. Clinton leads in New York, Illinois and California, which gives him over 100 electoral votes in those states alone. 
Bush needs the support of the
midwest and south, traditionally Re­publican strongholds, said Arnold. The far west and north are showing strong support for Clinton. 
Recent gains by Bush have nar­rowed the popular vote but not the electoral vote, said Kmiec. Based on last week's polls Kmiec and Arnold expect Clinton to hold on to his lead and win the election. 

KEYS TO THE ELECTION 
Where the presidential candidates stand; Important Congressional elections 

FLORIDA (25 electoral votes) Bush's best state in 1988, appears to be moving his way narrowly late in 1992. Democratic Sen. Bob Graham is on cruise control toward a second term against former Rep. Bill Grant, a Democrat who switched to the GOP and now says the party abandoned him. In a House race, former federal judge_ Alcee Hasttngs is favored to win election to the body that Impeached htm MICHIGAN (18) Clinton leads in this key battleground state. Bush claims a late surge. Democratic Rep. David Bonior, member of House leadership, is again vulnerable 

NEW JERSEY (15) Clinton's lead dwindling as he and Bush plan late visits. In a state with a long tradition of ticket splitting, Republicans are hoping to pick up some House seats State Sen. Robert Menendez is bidding to become the state's first Hispantc congressman 


NORTH CAROLINA (14) Clinton holds onto a dwindling lead. Democrattc Sen. Terry Sanford is 
in a dead heat against one-time friend and ally Lauch Faircloth, who switched to the GOP. Former Gov. Jim Hunt is favored in a comeback. And the state will send its first black representative to Congress in 90 years OHIO (21) Bush is gaintng steadily tn the final days in hopes of erasing a long-held Clinton lead. Sen John Glenn's 18-year tenure is being challenged by Lt Gov. Mtke DeWine, a Republican The former astronaut. one of the "Keattng Ftve," has only a slender lead in the polls 

TEXAS (32) A toss up between Bush and Clinton tn the home state to the president and Perot. One of the hottest of 30 House races is tn East Texas, where 10-term incumbent Democrat Charles Wilson has his hands full against Republican Donna Peterson, a West Point graduate and former Army helicopter 
pilot 

against Bush. Clinton has been suc­cessful in detailing the problems of the current economy and articulating a message of change, said Schmuhl. 
Clinton blames the current eco­nomic problems on Bush, which is not entirely fair, said Kmiec. Congress also plays a role in economic policy, and Kmiec has never seen them pass a budget proposed by Bush. 
The nature of the economy is now non-inflationary, which means in­vestments must become more creative and windfall gains are not as likely, he said. 
Until recently, Bush has not ex­plained the benefits of this type of economy, such as mortgage refi­nancing, effectively allowing Clinton to attribute the "failure" of the economy to his policies, said Kmiec. 
Bush's campaign strategy has re-
Ross Perot 
Legit to Quit" wasn't heard at Perot's rallies. 
On a multi-city, multi-state campaign trip this weekend, Perot refined speech lines that guaranteed a laugh. 
One sure-fire quip was a jab at "blow-dried anchormen" telling Americans how they're reacting to the campaign. 
"They call me thin-skinned," Perot said. "You want to see thin-skinned, just try to joke with a newsman." 
But some Perot supporters are taking their candidates words to heart, to the consternation of his 
The Observer/Ann-Mane Conrado 

volved around on his concern for public service and his experience in government, with a particular em­phasis on the character issue, said Schmuhl. By attempting to portray Clinton as irresponsible, he has shown himself to be the safe choice, said Kmiec. 
The professors agreed that the re­entry of Perot into the race has probably hurt the Clinton campaign more than Bush since polls showed the governor losing support and Bush holding steady while Perot was gaining. 
Clinton turned the trust issue back to Bush with new questions regarding Bush's policies with Iraq, said Arnold. 
Kmiec said Perot "identified total failure of political leadership on al­most every level," but his message came too clouded and too late. 
press corps. 
Several rocked a local TV van in Long Beach, Calif., Sunday afternoon while a reporter was on the air. A Perot campaign staffer broke up the crowd. 
"I apologize to the reporter," Perot said later in the day. "I wouldn't have anybody touch or hurt anybody else's property." 
He did not think his remarks about reporters spurred the action. "You understand they have less respect for you than they have for Congress, for some reason," Perot said. 
President Bush quelled a similar incident on his campaign last month when angry supporters threw bottles at a camera platform. And some Bush supporters booed reporters Sunday in Stamford, Conn. 
At all of his campaign sites, entrepreneurs sold Perot T-shirts, buttons and other souvenirs. But in Long Beach, one sold wine and champagne with commemorative Perot labels. 
"This is just for people to drink and celebrate on the night of his victory," said Bob Steger, a consultant of L'Officiel winery in La Habra Heights, Calif. 

Tuesday, November 
3, 1992 The Observer page 9 
ELECTION '92 
Bush defeats Clinton, Perot in ND mock election 
By EMILY HAGE and PAUL PEARSON 
News Writers 
President George Bush won 
46.6 percent of the vote in a mock election yesterday among Notre Dame students, faculty and administration, while Gov. Bill Clinton won 37.6 percent and Perot took 15.8 percent of the 4105 votes cast. 
The turnout for the mock election proves that students are "not as apathetic as every­one thinks," according to Chris Setti. political awareness com­missioner. 
Setti said that the high num­bers of College Democrats and Republicans marks increased enthusiasm at the University in this election year. The mock election helps determine the "pulse of the campus," he added. 
A separate poll of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students con­ducted by The Observer also indicated that Bush was win­ning on campus. Of 400 stu­dents polled, 46 percent said they intended to vote for Bush. 41 percent said they would vote for Clinton, 10 percent indi­cated Perot and three percent chose another •candidate or were undecided. 

The margin of error in the poll was five percent. 
• Among undergraduate stu­"Maybe (the mock election) dents, Bush won 48 percentgot S()me discussion going the (1859 votes), Clinton took 36day before the election." Setti percent (1384 votes), and Perotsaid. "A lot is at stake." 

received 16 percent of the voteStudent government compiled (624 votes). 

the results by group: • Among graduate students, 
It's been politics as usual: (usually, an awful ordeal) 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Don't 
News Analysis 

blame the Founding Fathers. They had no idea that when ing heckled by people in they sought "to form a more chicken outfits -Bush, ini­perfect Union, establish justice, tially, for declining to debate, insure domestic tranquility," it Clinton to suggest he was too 
would come down to adults chicken to serve in uniform. dressing like chickens so they They are forced to reduce could harass presidential can­fine theories of governance to didates. slogans and ultimately, at the 
But when they pick a presi­noisy end, to single words dent. as the American people shouted into microphones. will do on Tuesday, they do At the end. one candidate more. They declare where as a goes about the countryside nation they want to go. They yelling "trust," one yells 
write marching orders for "change," one yells "deficit." ' Washington. The election, in By the end of last week, Ge­that fine old phrase, is a rebirth orge Bush was standing in the of freedom. night air in Kettering, Ohio, be­And an awful ordeal: fore a crowd. mocking his ri­
•It 
is a costly enterprise, val's mantra. nearly $3 spent for every vote "Change," Bush called out. that will be cast for president. "Change. Change. Change. 

•It 
goes on forever. It starts Change. Change." 


publicly in the dark of winter in Iowa and New Hampshire, but If Bill Clinton were elected, he actually has no start or end. said, that's all the people would You can be sure that a dozen or have left in their pockets ­so people will go to bed tonight change. 
thinking about how to get "Grow the economy," retorts themselves elected president in Clinton in a thousand places, as 1996. though any president has much 
• It tortures the candidates. It power to influence a $6 trillion makes them sleep on airplanes, economy that's more subject to live on pizza and run on the whims of weather. tastes, adrenalin. It lets them screech markets, banks and the through cities in limousines so business cycle. they can stand before crowds And Perot says a pox on both and proclaim their brotherhood their houses. 
with ordinary mortals. The process makes liars of It invites them to say some­candidates. They make thing dumb, or at least forget promises that even those who 
where they are and who they're cheer lustily know are beyond with. They never forget why fulfillment because they con­they're there. though. tradict other promises. 
They wear out their voices Spend more, tax less, borrow but somehow manage to keep nothing; export more and im­their wits. They must endure port less; stand up to tyrants impersonations on "Saturday but avoid conflict; provide bet­Night Live." ter doctoring at lesser cost-at 
They have to put up with be-some point it stops computing. 
Clinton won 28 votes, Bush, 10 and Perot, 3. 
• Administration and staff members favored Clinton, who won 49 percent (55 votes). Thirty-six percent (40 votes) voted for Bush and 15 percent 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation stood Tuesday on the brink of a sweeping genera­tional shift among its leaders, whether or not Bill Clinton manages to wrest the White House from George Bush. 
The 102nd Congress, the oldest in 35 years, promises to give way to a new one with a distinctly baby-boom, post-Cold War flavor. "They will be dif­ferent in age and outlook," said congressional expert James Thurber of American Univer­sity. 
That new Congress might be led by the first ptesident born after World War II. Clinton, 46, is the first baby-boom candi­date fielded by a major party, the first to challenge the old guard of politicians shaped _by (17 votes) chose Perot. 

• Clinton won the faculty vote 
·by a large margin, with 78 votes for Clinton (92 percent), 5 for Perot (6 percent), and 2 for Bush (2 percent). 
Student government was 
the last world war and its aftermath. 
"There's a momentous pos­sibility in the offing. If Clinton wins, we will discover that a generation that had felt exiled from leadership can come home," said Todd Gitlin, a soci­ologist at the University of Cali­fornia at Berkeley. 
Whoever wins, "chances are that George Bush is the last president we'll have who came of age through service in the second world war," said Nor­man Ornstein, a congressional scholar at the American Enter­prise Institute. 
Some historians, citing Clin­ton's energy and youth, see parallels with the 1960 election -the first time two presiden­pleased with the participation of the community in the election, according to Megan Sullivan, executive coordinator of Intellectual Life. 
Setti said he was surprised by Clinton's edge among adminis­trators and his large lead among the faculty. The student results were in accord with re­cent Observer polls. he said. 
Bush's 46 percent take in to­day's Observer poll of students is up from 37 percent on Sept. 22 and 38 percent on Oct. 6. Clinton received 38 percent in the Sept. 22 poll and 41 percent of the vote in the Oct. 6 poll. 
Bush's approval rating also rose slightly to 44 percent, up three points from his showing on Oct. 6. 
Other poll findings: 
• 
While Perot's showing is an improvement over his 4 percent draw in the Oct. 6 poll, 69 percent of the students asked said that he would not be effective as president. 

• 
Fifty-four percent of the students surveyed said that the media has not covered the election fairly, while 44 percent said that the media disagreed. 

• 
Thirty-five percent of the students believe the economy is improving. Forty-eight percent said the economy is still stagnant and 16 percent said it is failing. 

• 
73 percent said that political advertising was not important in their decision. 


The random telephone poll was conduc~ed Oct. 27 through Nov. 1 by Observer reporters. 
tial candidates were born in the 20th century, vying to succeed the country's oldest president. 
Let the word go forth, John F. Kennedy said at his inaugura­tion, "that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans -born in this cen­tury, tempered by war, disci­plined by a hard and bitter peace ... " 
Clinton and his generation were shaped by a different war 
Vietnam, which "demonstrated the limitations of our power instead of the ex­tent of our power," said Ted Windt, a presidential historian at the University of Pittsburgh. 
They saw the country slide from global economic supremacy into a huge debt of its own. 




Business 
page 10 Tuesday, November 3, 1992 
INSIDE BUSINESS 
Auto CAFE standards-unsafe and unwise at any level 
By WILLIAM LAFFER 
Reacting to America's alleged excessive de­pendence on Middle East oil and to last fall's gasoline price increases, Congress_ is considering raising the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, which mandate average minimum miles per gallon (mpg) for the fleet of automobiles sold in America by each manufacturer.The "MotorVehicle Fuel Efficiency Act" (S. 279), introduced by Senator Richard Bryan, the Nevada Democrat, would increase the current 
27.5 mpg standard to approximately 34 mpg by 1996 and approximately 40 mpg by 2001.1. 
Supporters maintain that this increase is necessary to reduce America's fuel consumption. The recent fall in oil prices, however, removes a major reason given for higher CAFE standards. In any case, to meet higher CAFE standards American manufacturers will be forced to produce more smaller, lighter and therefore less safe cars. As it is, the current CAFE standards result in as many as 3,900 additional highway deaths per model-year fleet. The higher CAFE standards sought by the Bryan bill would force Americans truly to pay in blood, increasing the number of highway deaths attributable to CAFE by as much as 8,600 per model-year fleet. 
Nearly as bad is what the Bryan bill will do to American auto workers. To meet the Bryan CAFE standards and compete with foreign automakers, American manufacturers will have to transfer operations from the United States to overseas plants. This will throw tens of thousands of American automakers out of their jobs. Next will come American workers supplying steel and auto parts who too would find themselves on the unemployment line. 
Because the CAFE law looks only at average fuel economy, with the averages based on the number of cars sold, American automobile manufacturers actually can be penalized for producing more fuel­efficient cars. As American firms have produced more fuel-efficient mid-sized and large cars, many consumers have switched to these vehicles from smaller models. But given the peculiar way in which CAFE compliance is measured, such con­sumer choices can lower the fleet average for American manufacturers, even if the mpg for every individual model goes up. 
The Bryan bill would not greatly reduce American fuel consumption or America's alleged dependence on foreign oil. It would not be effective at reducing pollution or at inducing Americans to drive less. 
If energy prices rise and stay high, this itself will give consumers an incentive to purchase more fuel­efficient cars and give auto manufacturers an incentive to produce such vehicles. If fuel prices remain low, however, it does not make sense to force American manufacturers to produce cars that consumers do not need or want. If consumers decide they would rather have larger and hence safer cars, even if these cars get fewer miles per gallon of gasoline, manufacturers should not be prevented from selling these cars. The tradeoff between the safety of a vehicle and its fuel efficiency properly is the choice of each individual American, not the choice of Congress. 
Mr. Laffer is a McKenna Senior Policy Analyst for The Heritage Foundation. 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Ford reveals third-quarter loss 
Dearborn, Mich.-Ford Motor Company, faced with continued economic weakness in most of its key markets, posted a loss of $159 million in the third quarter of 1992, Chairman Harold Poling and President Philip Benton Jr. said. Ford lost 43 cents per share of common and Class B stock. In the third quarter of 1991, Ford lost $574 million, or $1.20 per share. Poling attributed the third quarter loss to continued slow industry sales, coupled with seasonal inventory adjustments, in the United States, Europe and other markets. 
IDOC acts on energy efficiency 
Indianapolis-Indiana Department of Commerce's (IDOC) Office of Energy and the U.S. Department of Energy expect to award approximately $1 million in grants to Indiana schools and hospitals through the Institutional Conservation Program (ICP). The federal funds will assist these institutions in reducing energy use and operating costs. "IDOC has awarded over $24 million in energy efficiency grants, which have helped our institutions strengthen their long-term economic positions. Additionally, the dollars saved through the ICP allow schools and hospitals to redistribute funds to other areas of need, and provide improved services to their communities,"said Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon, moe director. 
Leading automaker makes sweeping changes in response to financial troubles 
NEW YORK (AP) -General Motors Corp. announced sweeping changes at the top today, installing a new chairman and chief executive and pushing out four directors linked to the leading automaker's growing financial trouble. 
President John ''Jack" Smith was given the title of chief executive officer while outside director John Smale became chairman. 
In addition, outgoing chairman Robert Stempel, forced out a week ago, officially retired. Three of Stempel's proteges left the board of directors. 
The changes announced during a GM board meeting in New York also affected the company's highly successful Saturn carmaking subsidiary, which will no longer have autonomous marketing, engineering and manufacturing operations. 

Smale, who has been the most aggressive force for major changes at the world's leading industrial company, had been expected to take the job of chairman. The former Procter & Gamble Co. chairman led the board revolt that led to Stempel's departure last week. 
In a statement about the changes, Smale said Jack Smith has the board's "enthusiastic and unqualified support. We are confident this new team is the right leadership to take the reins at this critical juncture and we are convinced GM is moving into a new era of excellence." 
GM's stock price rose 25 cents a share to $31 after the changes were announced. 
GM said the departures, besides Stempel, included the retirement of his one-time protege, vice president Lloyd Reuss, vice chairman Robert Schultz and executive vice president E Alan Smith. 
William Hoglund, GM's chief financial officer, was given a board seat. 
The executive changes come against a background of un­precedented losses at GM and growing alarm about the company's future. Despite dramatic cost­cutting, GM's North American automaking operations are overstaffed, inefficient and the major cause of the company's $7.4 billion in losses since January 1990. 
Treasurer's company under FBI 
investigation for influence peddling 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The former company of U.S. Treasurer Catalina Vasquez Villalpando, who is at the center of an FBI influence-peddling probe, received $68.6 million in non­competitive federal contracts under a program for minority businesses, according to government data released Monday. 
The company, Communications International Inc .. was awarded 56 telecommunications contracts under the program from 1983 to 1992, the Small Business Administration data show. The contracts are for work performed for various government agencies at military bases, veterans' hospitals and other facilities around the country. 
Villalpando, 52, a longtime· Republican Party worker, worked in the Reagan White Hous-e from 1981 to 1985, when she joined the telecom­munications company as a partner and senior vice president. She resigned from -but kept her stock in -the company in 1989, when she became 
U.S. treasurer in the Bush administration. 
Villalpando, whose signature appears on all current paper money, was put on administrative leave last Thursday at her request, after FBI agents raided her Washington apartment and several other locations. At issue is whether she took payoffs-including travel, lodging 
and  other  benefits  from  
Communications International .  
It is  a  misdemeanor for  a  senior  

federal official to accept compensation or benefits from a former employer while working for the government. 

Ernest Olivas, who formerly headed the company's Washington operation, resigned Friday as the director of Hispanic voter recruitment for the Bush-Quayle campaign. Olivas said he quit because "some may use this story against the Bush-Quayle campaign." 
Communications International, based in Atlanta, is headed by former Atlanta Falcons running back Joe Profit. It has enjoyed phenomenal growth over the last decade because of federal contracts. 
The company participates in the Small Business Administration's contract set-aside program for businesses owned by minorities. Under the program, the SBA provides technical assistance, the decision to award a contract is not based on com­petitive bids but is made by the government agency that needs the work done. 
The total amount of the company's contracts, which would include the $68.6 million under the minority business program, is unknown. In her financial disclosure form for 1989, Villapando said she was responsible for securing two contracts worth more than $60 million. 
The disclosure form also shows she received a $250,000 bonus from the company after she was appointed to her government post. The Office of Government Ethics determined at the time that the payment did not violate federal ethics laws because Communications International officials said it was payment for efforts to help the company win contracts while she was still its vice president. 
Faulty seatbelts result in Ford recalling over half-million autos 
DEARBORN, Mich. (AP)-Ford Motor Co. recalled about 564,000 Taurus, Sable and Explorer vehicles Monday to replace faulty seat-belt buckles. 
The buckles may not latch or unlatch as intended on some 1989-1990 Taurus and Sable models and 1991 Explorers, Ford said. 
Ford has had reports of five accidents in which the buckle failed, resulting in minor injuries, spokeswoman Kathryn Blackwell said. 
About 37,100 of the affected vehicles are in Canada. Owners will be notified by mail. New seat-belt buckles will be installed free. 
Ford also announced an emissions­related recall of about 100 model year 1993 Ford Explorers with 4-liter engines built for sale in California only. The automaker said the engine's cylinder identification system may be out of alignment, which could illumi­nate a warning light. 

The cylinder identification system helps control the mixture of gasoline and air in each cylinder. If it is out of alignment, the engine may burn fuel less efficiently and increase emissions. 
Owners will be notified by mail, and repairs will be made free. 
Also Monday, Ford announced that it was adding four years or 50,000 miles to warranty coverage of the exhaust system on about 140,000 model year 1990 Lincoln Town Cars. 
The automaker found some mufflers and muffler inlet pipes may corrode. 
Owners will be contacted by mail. Those who have already paid to have the work done will be reimbursed. 
20th Century Fox chairman resigns 
LOS ANGE1.ES (AP) -Joe Roth, who oversaw the hits "Home Alone" and "The Last of the Mohicans," is stepping down as chairman of 20th Century Fox, the second resignation of a major studio chief in the past week, a source says. 
The 44·year-old Roth is leaving to form an independent film division within Walt Disney Studios, the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Sunday. 
Roth, who has been studio boss for three years, was to announce his resignation to~ day. 
Last week. Brandon Tartikoff announced he was leaving Paramount Pictures to spend more time with a 9• year-old daughter injured in a car crash last year. 
The Los Angeles Times, quoting unidentified sources today. said Roth decided against renewing bis ·Contract with Fox after failing to win lucrative concessions from Rupert Murdoch, chainnan of 
.F . 
r Mtitdoch nor Roth 

be reached for conun~Pt late SundaY• CIUI$ to the studio went unanswered. 
Disney spq:Jt;esw n TtlrrY d h~:t s ha~Ino ...•. .·.•....•. . vw 
ha$.~~5~pJ~ture ~().al
);)isney, th(:) source· said. source did not know oth would leave 20th y Fox, but the Times 

W!>Uld stay long . 
·to oversee the release of Fox's big holiday films~ ''l'f.otr)~ Alone z;;~. "Toy~,'' 
starring Robin Williams,· and "Hol'fa,'' starring Jack 
Niel),.j~on~ 
"Home Alone" took in more ·than $283 million fu U.S. the~ aters. 
But the studio also has re* leased the disappointing "For the Boys" and "Shining ThrQU,gh~~ during Roth's tentll'e. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 3, 1992 page 11 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor .........•...••.•..... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ....•....•.....•.. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ..•......... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac ·and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

AIDS is prevented through 
Jesus was a 'bleeding heart' 

education, not 'wrath of God' 
Dear Editor: The fear of Hell and of God's instance. So often I have heard 
A few weeks before fall wrath should an individual Catholic Republicans condemn Dear Editor: heterosexual transmission of break, Sinead O'Connor ap­stray from his allowed confines their liberal opponents as Throughout history, people AIDS. AIDS can be transmitted peared on television and tore a of behavior (which, I might "bleedinghearts." But who is have used strict, literal inter­through sex, both heterosexual piece of paper in half. A pic­add, exclude many very natural more often portrayed with an pretations of bible passages to and homosexual. · ture. Okay, a picture of the human behaviors). The same exposed, bleeding heart than justify such evils as the Cru­Clearly, AIDS is not punishment Pope. fear that drives so many to the Jesus, the same person these sades, slavery, and sexism. of God; this idea is ludicrous 
The next day members of the chapel each Sunday. That an­Republicans claim to be their One would hope that, over time, and dangerous. Professor Student Senate at Notre Dame noying, poorly understood savior? people might learn from the Murphy's "biblical realism" only demanded that there be an sense of obligation. And way back before Ross results of these narrow-minded serves to create conflict, apology because a negative Perot dropped out of the race readings and look for deeper marring the true message of opinion had been expressed All of the above, viewed Jerry Brown was asked if he meanings within scripture. But the Bible. God's message, as about their Big Brother. This, objectively, seem to be methods would be Perot's running mate as we have seen from the fulfilled in Christ, is one of in America? of psychologically coercing should he receive the invita­manipulations of television life-giving love. Each life is 
It is hard for me to imagine people to maintain their tion. He responded: "only if evangelists and the like, this is sacred, regardless of individual that an American college stu­membership and participation (Perot) gives all his money to not the case. differences. dent would demand an apology in the Church. charity and accepts donations In a letter written last week, ND Instead of quoting pa~sages for someone's having expressed I realize that this may be nec­of no more than $100." law professor Edward Murphy aimed to condemn, we should an opinion. essary on some level in most used what he calls "biblical take into context the deeper 
organizations, but it is counter­That sounds remarkably sim­realism" to condemn homo­message of a live that gives life. 
Can an opinion contrary to productive when the "beliefs" ilar to something Jesus told a sexuals, going so far as to imply If a homosexual relationship is one's own not simply be ig­are held in a vacuum. Very rich man when the rich man that AIDS is the "wrath of God" fulfilling, spiritually and sexu­nored, or better, be understood rarely are the sociological wanted to follow him. Yet how aimed to punish them. He ally, for the two individuals, and taken as a criticism and/or philosophic groundings much support did Brown re­ended the article asking that then let it be. through which one's own opin­for Catholic practice given. And ceive on this campus? Perhaps the debate be continued, with And as for AIDS, let us realize ion might be strengthened or even when the groundings are he was the "savior in an elec­"all the cards on the table." its potential to affect us all and revised? The fact that it cannot given, they are rarely em­tion year" Father Griffin was seek prevention through edu­leads me to again question the braced in action. looking for. That sounds like a great idea, cation instead of writing it off training of Catholics by their Most of the students on Notre To claim Catholic status one but many more "cards" are as the "wrath of God." Church. Dame's campus could be iden­must bear a bleeding heart on needed -like AIDS education I agree that the debate should 
It seems to me that the de­tified as Catholics far more his chest. Whether a 14K gold for students and faculty on continue, but why don't we all fensiveness displayed by the readily by their attending Mass cross is beside it is irrelevant. campus. start playing with a full deck of Student Senate results from the or wearing a cross then by Such superficial symbols and Here we have a law professor cards? Church's attempts to ensure their acting in the tradition of images (including pictures) spewing at the mouth about Sorin Spohn the perpetuation of its own Jesus. I believe that this is al­provide something easy to de­"realism," yet completely omit­Keenan Hall existence. Through methods of lowed by the Church when it fend and cling to, and substi­ting such scientific facts as Oct. 30, 1992 indoctrination, it has, in effect, puts so much stress on main­tute for the difficult issues with created watchdogs which read­taining itself, its image, its which one must deal. ily defend the Church's image. Pope, and not on the social or It may be, then, as Orwell 
For instance, the Church moral need beneath it all. forewarned and O'Connor now teaches its members to have claims, that the enemy we are 

-,
the faith of a child and to not It gives Catholics the impres­told to fight does not present as question beliefs. sion that performing rituals much a threat to our humanity 
Or I have also heard "For and reciting prayers is what it as a hidden enemy to whom we those who have faith, it need essentially is to be Catholic. have been paying dues for not be explained. For those The Church lets its members many years. who do not have faith, it cannot escape the difficult issues Just a thought I had. be explained." which Jesus intended to deal 
And to back everything up with in the first place. It is Jed Hartings there is the fear that the counterproductive. Stanford Hall Church instills in its members. Take this political year, for Oct. 29, 1992 
DOONESBURY 


-Viewpoint
page 12 Tuesday, November 3, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reader says Observer represses sex dialogue 
Dear Editor: . 
Every day at lunch, I eagerly grab a copy of your fine news­paper to read about the latest in important national, local, and campus issues. 
Opening to the front page, I always delight in seeing the subtitle [sic], "The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." Taking it at face value, it signifies a brave promise to true, honest reporting while under the con­stant threat of our administra­tion's oft-demonstrated policing. 
Yet, after a recent revelatory visit to another great university, I believe I now have a better understanding of truly "independent" reporting, and I find The Observer's working definition -demonstrated in their patterned choices of arti­cles and editorials -wholly inadequate. 
Over fall break, I escaped across the border with some friends to the home of the new baseball World Champions. There, I located a copy of The Varsity, the twice-weekly newspaper of the University of Toronto, and placed it in my bag of plastic souvenirs. 
When I opened The Varsity, I was tickled to discover an eight page pullout section entitled, "The Varsity Sex and Power Supplement." Perusing the contents, the supplement's ap­parent agenda seemed to be the abolition of all ignorance, taboos, and hatred surrounding that most prolific of collegiate activities. 
The eloquent, exhaustive ar­tides exposed the entire spec­trum of sex: relationships and casual sex, prostitution and sexual harassment, "dykes and queers" (their terminology), and, yes, (dare I say it?) mas­turbation. Even the advertise­ments were relevant: they of­fered free counseling and free condoms at clinics and local novelty shops. 
And then I recalled our pa­per's frequent and excessively liberal editorials on parietals, on the creation of co-ed dorms, on the "immorality" of sex be­fore marriage, and I found my­self laughing hysterically, muffiing a terrible scream. 
The way I see it, all news media has the dual responsibil­ity of responding to the imme­diate needs of its audience and of giving them a global per­spective on important issues. 
In college media, the role stays more or less the same, except that in addition to a local and global perspective, it also becomes necessary to respond to the mainstream viewpoints of our generation as a whole. 
Notre Dame, despite what many would like to believe, is not in the main: it's not even close. And, sadly, there is no attempt made in The Observer to overtly acclimate to the jour­nalistic practices of our more candid friends outside the Dome's shadow, who clearly have a better grasp on the real­ity of mainstream American (and Canadian) post-adolescent culture. 
My problem lies with The Observer's claim of 

"independence," which objec­tively means that they should be able to print any well-written article they wish, according to the rights conferred upon all citizens in the first amendment. 
Indeed, journalism is a very powerful medium and, if used correctly, it can be used to re­spond not only to the pre-exist­ing sensibilities of the majority, but can indeed bring about a healthy change in attitudes, especially among those readers sitting on the fence. 
Currently, your newspaper simply refuses to print any ar­ticles or editorials which ad­dress sexual issues written without regards to the ascetic sexual mores laid down by the Catholic Church and, more lo­cally, by the administration in DuLac. In fact, of all the cam­pus media, only Common Sense addresses sexual issues in a serious and intelligent manner. 
When I was reading The Var­sity, I got the impression that the students at U ofT are living happy, carefree lives away from the contagious blinds of repression which tie up so many Domers. 
Such articles do not degrade or devalue a student newspa­per's "reputation": on the contrary, in providing a forum for students to write intelli­gently about an issue so crucial to their generation, the paper proves its worth. 
But there is far more at stake here than the happiness of your readers. 
We live in a society ravaged by one of the worst medical epidemics since the black plague: a disease taking away more young lives than any other, with no end in sight. 
It was clearly stated by former Surgeon General C. Ev­erett Koop that, "Barring absti­nence, the American people's best protection against AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases is the use of a con­dom." As I stated above, The Varsity ran several ads offering free counseling and condoms at different locations. 
When I was in Toronto, my friends and I even stumbled upon a little brightly-lit shop just south of campus called "Condom Shack," offering cards, novelties, and a wide as­sortment of prophylactics. Now, I certainly don't expect to see any such entrepreneurial ventures in sleepy South Bend in the near future, but the Torontonians have certainly set a remarkable precedent. 
By making, at least partially through the media, the use of condoms chic and popular, they have almost certainly guaranteed that all those who engage in sexual activity, except for a stubborn minority, will use protection. 
But here at NO, where those little sleeves are so terribly ta­boo, I doubt we can claim the same ratio of usage among those who do engage in inter­course. And with the persistent hazards of disease and unwanted pregnancy floating around, how can our "independent" newspaper af­ford to remain silent? 
Will you reaffirm your "independence" from all ad­ministrative and reli­giouslmoralistic ties? Will you accept the challenge to refocus your paper to respond honestly and openly to the majority atti­tudes of our generation? 
I suggest that the staff look outside our campus walls at other student newspapers to grasp a true sense of where we stand in relation to the other great North American universi­ties on this issue. Then, I would implore you to begin reporting on these issues in a candid, consistent, and well thought-out manner, encouraging all members of the student body to respond. 
Only then will we have a stu­dent newspaper which truly reports independently with an eye not only on the local status quo, but with a vision for a healthier, safer, better informed environment for all of your readers. 
Pete Matthews Alumni Hall Oct. 27, 1992 
Editor's note: The Viewpoint Department doesn't try to reflect the views ofthe University ofToronto. The Catholic nature ofmany of the opinions we print is a reflection ofour largely Catholic readershi,:r-Go figure.
Ifyou read us, you'd see plenty ofopinions running contrary to Catholic teaching. Jfyou want to write about sex, go for it. 
Reader says enjoy life, Christians should abhor bigotry 
Dear Editor: There is no doubt that unpro­endorsement of gay-bashing.
have sex without guilt 

I am writing in response to tected anal intercourse can in­Professor Murphy scares me. Guest Columnist Edward J. deed result in HIV transmis­How can anyone offer, in
Dear Editor: someone they find attractive. 

The Catholic Church holds Notre Dame students make Murphy's article, "Television sion. However, as long as we support of his views, a "just" that sex should be reserve!i for snide remarks, joke, talk about needs a dose of some biblical are going to lay "all the cards decree which states that 
marriage. This tells me that the sex within their circle of realism." {The Observer, Oct. on the table," it should be certain human beings deserve Catholic Church is saying the friends, but when the topic is 27, 1992) mentioned that vaginal inter­to die? relationship of a husband and brought up by an outsider only I find it rather sad that Pro­course, the act touted by Pro­Perhaps Murphy would counter 
wife should be, at least partly, embarrassed or guilty looks are fessor Murphy, an otherwise fessor Murphy as the only ac­that he was referring to an intelligent individual, displays ceptable sexual practice be­eternal death, a punishment
based on sex. evoked. 

such ignorance and uses the cause "God designed" it, is also that will be meted out by God.
I claim that sex has nothing to The reason for such behavior Bible to support hatred and quite risky for men and espe­Passages from the Bible maydo with marriage. Marriage is this. Most of us have been 

should be based on mutual and taught (forced) to believe since bigotry. cially for women. be, and historically have been, deep respect and, in the spirit childhood that sex between an Professor Murphy begins his For women, unprotected sex used to support sexism, racism, 
attack on lesbians and gay men with men is more likely to re­slavery, anti-Semitism, warof the Romantics, attraction. unmarried couple is wrong. 
by stating that certain sexual sult in HIV transmission than (especially when waged against Sex, however, is an event for However, each of us, strangely, practices are "unnatural acts" any other sexual behavior. In non-Christian nations), andpleasure. Sex does not necessi­has a natural desire to propa­and amount to nothing more addition, it should be empha­other such beliefs and actions.
tate a relationship. Humans dif­gate the species. 

than "perversity" and "grievous sized that one's risk of becom­One may now add homophobiafer from other animals primar­The result is guilt. The way to violations of the law of God." ing infected with HIV depends and gay-bashing to that list.
ily in that we also have the abil­beat this guilt is to recognize By equating being gay or upon one's behavior choices, Surely, if God condemns any­

ity to reason. that sex is merely a way to send lesbian with such sexual prac­both past and present, and not thing, it would be the actions of So relationships should be the chromosomes on vacation, tices, he assumes that {a) self­upon one's sexual orientation. extremists like Murphy whobased on reason, not sex. In the have fun, and maybe even meet 

.-spirit of the infamous walrus, a new friend . identifying as a lesbian or gay Murphy states that "we need a misuse Scripture and religious man necessarily means that dose of some biblical realism" dogma to support discrimina­
sex is a means to pass on one's I call for the true expression 

genes. Sexual "promiscuity" is of each person's desires. Re­one engages in these acts, and proceeds to deliver a fire tion, bigotry, and hatred. just a way to quicken the pression leads to guilt and when in fact it does not, and (b) and brimstone sermon, quoting Bigotry wears many faces; homosexuals are the only from St. Paul's letter to the sadly, "Christianity" is often
diversification of the gene pool. probably some sort of Freudian group of people that may en­Romans. He writes about one of them. 

Du Lac forbids sexual inter­psychosis. So enjoy life, and do course between unmarried not forget to have sex just for gage in such practices, when in "God's just decree that all who Kelly A. Smith 
fact many heterosexual couples do such things (i.e. lesbians and 5th Year Biology major students. Why? King David had the sake of having sex. 
a harem. Do not be aghast at Tony Anderson practice "oral copulation" and gay men) deserve death." Saint Mary's College my "nerve." Everyone has Cavanaugh Hall other "perverse" acts. I find this nothing more than an Off-Campus thought of having sex with Oct. 26, 1992 

God is not 'hateful' as described 
Dear Editor: However, I held another notion God might disapprove of certain 
I would like to thank the Guest prior to reading this column actions (promiscuous sex being 
Columnist of Tuesday, 27 Oct. which has not been shaken. I one of them), that He is by no 
1992 for his illustrious still believe that God loves each means a wrathful and hateful 
revelation that it is only homo­one of His children and that He being such as the God this 
sexuality which involves "anal does not discriminate among us column describes, and that He 
intercourse. oral copulation, by whom we happen to love. can forgive. 
and worse." I feel that God disapproves of I stand as firm as ever in this 
Silly me! I had always thought promiscuous sex but that He is belief and I count my blessings 
that heterosexuals also engaged able to see, unlike many of us that this type of God. and not a 
in such "grievous violations of on Earth, that not all homosex­being of lesser wisdom and ca­
the law of God." Now that uals are promiscuous and that pabilities of forgiveness, will be 
misunderstanding of mine_ has not all heterosexuals are pure judging me when I pass from 
been cleared up. I realize that and virtuous in their sexual .be­my earthly existence. 
straight people never engage in havior. Kirsten M. Dunne 
sodomy or oral sex. 1 also feel that, even though Fischer Graduate Residences 

---------:---­



Accent 

Tuesdaay, November 3, 1992 page13 


Street-Wise Beginnings 
Streets of Notre Dame can trace their origins to Father Sarin's Sorinsville 
By RICK DELVECCHIO 
Accent Writer 
Many signs mark the importance of the Sisters, Priests and Brothers of the Holy Cross to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Street signs, that is. 
Since the founding of Notre Dame, originally "Sorinsville," by Father Sorin in 1842, the history of the Holy Cross Congregation has been recorded in past and present street names, according to Brother Thomas Moser, C.S.C. 
The Holy Cross story began in LeMans, France, when Father Basil Anthony 
' Moreau was asked to take over the leadership of the Brothers of St. Joseph from Father James Dujarie, who was suffering from failing health, according to Moser. 
"Father Moreau initiated a group of auxiliary priests and set about establishing the Marianite Sisters," he said. 
"The congregations of Holy Cross in 
Pictured here are the streets of Sorinsville as they appeared in the mid-1800s 
SOR!NSVILLE i~ AND 2nd ADDmO>J 
the United States have their roots in these foundations. Today these same religious are known as the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the priests of the Holy Cross, and the Brothers of the Holy Cross." 
Moser added that the patrons of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the Brothers of the Holy Cross are St. Mary for the Sisters and St. Joseph for the Brothers," 
Streets named for each of these patrons ran parallel to Notre Dame Avenue in the early years," he said. 
Father Sorin first arrived at Notre Dame with Brother Gatien, a teacher, and Brother Francis Xavier, a carpenter. A year later, Father Sorin was joined by Brothers Vincent, Lawrence, and Joachim, according to Moser. 
He added that the street names of the small Sorinsville were later to become the names of the streets today. 
"From these six religions we get two of our street names: Sorin Street and St. 
NORlH 
@ 

Vmcent Street," he said. 
A year after the original Holy Cross group arrived at Notre Dame, four sisters joined the Notre Dame community to complete the founding family of Holy Cross in the United States, Moser said. 
They were Sister Mary of Calvary, Sister Mary of Bethlehem, Sister Mary of Nazareth, and Sister Mary of the Heart of Jesus, he said. 
These women were central to the creation of the Saint Mary's College, St. Joseph Medical Center, the General House of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Moser said. 
However, further development and settling was inevitable, Moser said. the available land became attractive to laborers in the community. 
Moser added that the land in this new town would provide numerous advantages for inhabitants. 
"Laborers desiring to secure steady work at the college, property of their own, a good education for their children, and the benefit of Church services daily or weekly, had the advantage to purhase a lot," Moser said. 
Moser said that this opportunity gave rise to the influx of the Irish inhabitants, and the continuing Irish influence of today. 
"By 1860, twenty to thirty Irish families had settled here and their presence gave way to the nickname, 'Little Dublin'," he said. 
St. Basil Street and St. Aloysius Street mark part of Holy Cross history as well, he said. 
"Brother Basil taught music and organ at Notre Dame for fifty years. St. Aloysius is the Church patron saint for priests. 
His life and example were used as a source of inspiration for the priests of the Holy Cross," said Moser. 
"A River Runs Through it" shows rare drama, intelligence 
By PETER BEVACQUA Film Critic 
"A River Runs Through It" is a drama about two brothers. their father, who is a minister, and a river that in many ways shapes their lives. The plot is simple and the setting is simple, but the film is a wonderful creation in which Robert Redford explores the maturation of two men who realize that the carefree life of their youth can never be equaled, nor reclaimed. 
Set in Montana between 1910 and 1935, the story uses fly fishing as both a metaphor and a meeting ground-combining science, sport, religion and art, and sometimes a quest for the mysterious grace they all share. 
Norman (Craig Sheffer) and Paul (Brad Pitt) Maclean are devoted to each other and to their parents, and yet they find it difficult to express their feelings for one another once they begin their journey into adulthood. It is only on the Big Blackfoot River that the two brothers and their father can sense a camaraderie which is expressed in the silent gestures of fly fishing. 
The film may seem a bit too sentimental for some, but that is not the case. Anyone who has grown apart from a brother, a sister and/or a parent will become engrossed in the tale of one brother's recognition of that universal 
"A River Runs Through If' 
Produced by Robert Redford and 
Patnck Marke'L 
Directed by Robert "Redford 
Starring: Crarg Shefferi Brad Pitt 
and Tom Skerri t * * * * * 
(out of possible five) 
experience of familial alienation. 
Norman, the older of the two, struggles between his desire to become an English professor in Chicago and his secret admiration for the lifestyle of his brother, Paul-a rugged individual inhibited by no one, and committed to fashioning an existence which does not differ from the aspirations of his childhood. 

Redford is to be commended for , producing such a powerful film which derives its strength from its simplicity (that is simplicity on a ,, Hollywood scale of what constitutes : complexity). In a market saturated Craig Sheffer (1.) and Brad Pitt star as brothers Norman and Paul Maclean in the drama "A River by steroid-induced killers and Runs Through It," a Columbia Pictures Release. psychotic robot-men,"A River Runs 
idiots. In merely retracing the life of an match for a river, two boys and theirThrough It" is a welcome change. 
average American, from the antics of father.
Redford shows that experiences which 

boyhood through the retrospective More importantly, he proves that
all have shared can evoke more emotion impulses of old age, the story is a great there is still hope for films which convey than a mega scale production which is success. Redford proves that Arnold human values and intelligence. 

obsessed with guns, technology and 

Schwarzenegger and Sly Stallone are no 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, November 3,1992 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATIENTION: 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities. THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
WordWorks Typing Service 
Term papers, dissertations, theses 
277-7406 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: 35mm Vivitar camera somewhere between D2 and Sarin. If found, please call x2690. 
Found: Dangling pearl earring. Call 272-8356. 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
EASY WORK/ EXCELLENT PAY! ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT HOME. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800­467-6226 EXT 6840. 
NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade boy in SB. I tutored him last year but I graduated. Please call me collect in NY tor more info Mike Ferguson 718-325-9642 or call CSC 
I NEED PSU TIX: GAISTU CALL AL: 273-8382 
EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars! ... Begin NOW!... FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT. 
Now Hiring Spring Break Reps!!!! For Panama City Beach. Greeks, Organizations, Individuals. Earn Cash. Free Trips, & Experience. Call Joe. Endless Summer 1-800­234-7007. 
HELP! I NEED A FEW OF THOSE COOL NO/BUD T-SHIRTS IF U HAVE ANY 4 SALE CALL MEGAN 4222 
FOR RENT 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899. 
For rent: 1 room availablf;l -use of all facilities -clean & safe neighborhood -close to campus ­$200 a month. Ask for Paul 232­2794. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a day 2880955 
Need to sublet trtle crk apt Call Damien x1870 ND Professor can board one or two horses. Stable 1 mile from ND. Outside and small covered arenas. Olympic trainer for dressage. Also can half-lease mare to very experienced rider. 277-5828. 
FOR SALE 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
Cheap trip to southern vactionlandl 
Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving Break. 
You name the price. 
Call DAVE at 283-3662. 
Need 2 BC GA's: will pay $$$$or trade 2 PENN GA. CALL AGNES 273-9376 
TICKETS 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need One Ticket For Boston College! I! Call273-2967!!! 
Need PSU tix 
Mike 234-8306 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I must have B.C. tickets! Either Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and his buddies are coming in from 
B.C. to watch their team get slaughtered! Please help me out! I'M DESPERATE!!!/!/ X4990 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN ST GA, PRETIY PLEASE WITH A CHERRY ON TOP. MIKE X2209 
NEED 10 PENN ST GAs BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED B.C. TICKETS!/! 
GREAT MONEY. .. 
CALL ANGELA 
283-2729 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NOV. 7 IS MY BIRTHDAY. .. PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY SELLING ME YOUR BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.'s CALL JOE AT x3426 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!/!!!! 2--4 STUDENT TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE! My friends are poor but If you are nice and aren't planning on going they would appreciate your help. Call JON X3592. 
WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY! CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x1103 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
N E E D PENN ST & BC 
WILL BEAT 
ANY INSANE 
OFFER 
kyle 
234-9433 
WILL BEAT 
ANY INSANE OFFER 
GIVE A CALL & TRY ME 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
COLD CASH PAID FOR 2 BC GA'S. CALL KEVIN #3291 
I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY 
X3443 
NEED GAs. Penn St, BC 
x3593 
I NEED STUD & GA's FOR BC & 
PSU -Greg 289-6052 
I REALLY need 4 BC tickets! 
Please call Jeff-3810 
BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC Need BC Ticket -Stud or GA Call Greg at 3451 BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC 
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP 
TWO LARGE ALUMS are holding me captive and forcing me to drink MD 20/20 until I get them 
B. C. TICKETS Please help! 
CALL PAUL 289-4278 HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP 
I need a PSU ticket. Do you have one? please call 22411 michelle 
2 BC GAs for sale, Best offer-call Chris X3357 
PLEASE HELP­I really, really need any Penn \\I State ticket!! 
Call Katie x2988 
I NEED GA'S FOR BC AND PENN ST. !!!! CALL AARON @ 271-2908 
Have 2 Penn st. Ga's need 4 g.a's together and 5 students for B.C. Need 8 penn st. Students call mike at 273-2233 
I NEED 2 BC GA'S! CALL DARCY X3427. 
NEED: BC AND PENN STATE TICKETS. CALL BONNIE X4653 
NEED 1 BC GA-JOHN X3648 
Need many GA's for BC Also looking for one student ticket Please call Whitney at x2666 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Will pay BIG BUCK$ for your BC GA'sl Call Jim x3367 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED PENN ST. TIX 
NICK X4284 
I HAVE 2 GA'S TO BOTH B.C. AND PENN STATE FOR SALE. CALL JOE AT 1758. BEST OFFER BY THURSDAY GETS THE TICKETS. GOOD LUCK! 
For sale: 2 BC student tix. Call Meredith at x2690 
Help! I need a BC GA or stud tix! call Beth 3724 
2 BC GA's FOR SALE Robert at 287-9118 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 
California ALUM desperate for Penn State GAs Top $. Pis lv mess. (( (415)597-2319 HELP/92 GRAD DESPERATELY NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE CALL JENNY 215-265-7346. 

Needed -2 to 4 tickets to the Nov. 7 game vs BC. Please call (517) 337-4973. 
HELP! I NEED 2 B.C. TICKETS EITHER GA OR STUDENT 
CALL KATIE X1262 
SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL HISTORY/ CALL RICH AT x1 005 
Need 2 GA's for BC. Will pay top $$. Call Derek 283-4522. 
We NEED Penn State GA's and Boston College student OR G.A. tixl Please call at x1771 
Need 6 ND-BC tickets call288-5474 
NEED 

Boston College 
GA's 

Call Jeanne atx2645 
The people who pay my tuition need 4 GAs for B.C. call Rich 233-9279 
Need BC Tickets Please call John at 271-0759 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR NO BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @ 287-4561. 
PLEASE HELP. NEED B.C. TICKETS. CALL 1573 
••••• FOR SALE ..... 
ONE STUDENT TICKET BOOK call Bill at 299-1845 
BB STUDENT TIX APP 
FOR SALE CHEAP!!/ BEST OFFER LISA X4845 
TRADE YOUR TICKETS TO THE FREEZING-COLD OUTDOOR PENN STATE GAME TO ME FOR DRINKING MONEY SO YOU CAN ENJOY THE WARMTH OF THE GAME IN THE COMFORT OF YOUR FAVORITE BAR STOOL CALL RICH AT x1 005 
Need BC tix stud or GA call Chris 273-9176 
NEEDED BC Student and GA tix Call Andy 271-1863 
I need BC tix badly/ John x2763 
Need 4 Penn State Tix Call Tom X3423 
I need as many .. PENN STATE TICKETS•• as you haveII ••Call Tara #4766•• 
I am in desperate need of 2 Penn State GAs. Jim x4110 
ONLY YOU CAN HELP ME! I NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A.S CALL PETE AT 273-1962 
NEED 2 BC GA'S. CALL CHRIS 1-419-882-7208. 
Need 2 BC GA's Joe#1112 
HELP I need BC tickets PLEASE call 272­8115 
need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648 
HELP/ Need 1 BC Ticket Call Lisa 217-9129 
I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn State Ticket. Either Student or GA. Please call Chris x4511 
I NEED ANY PENN STATE 
TICKETS! GA's or Student 
Call Rich x3367 
Need two BC GA's, call Podge, 
x4782 

NEED 2 BC GA'S -STEVE #2054­
N.D. Alum has B.C. G.A.s and is looking to buy or trade for 2 Penn State G.A.s. Call (717) 697-2219 and ask for Tom or leave message. 
A PENNSYLVANIA RESIDENT 
REALLY NEEDS 2 PENN STATE 
G.A.'S PLEASE! 
CALL GEORGE X3015 
PERSONAL 
Hey Niff 

OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future tor your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Information on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Australia. We represent 28 Australian Universities. Call us toll free 1-800-245-2575. 
DO CONFLICTS PLAGUE YOUR LIFE? Come to the Mediation Exploration meeting at the esc to discuss the possibility of a Mediation Service on campus. Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 5:15 
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip 
To Bahamas or Panama City! Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! Sign-Up Before 12/11/92! Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386. 
MEN AND WOMEN 
FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE 
For more into, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
NORDY,T-MAC,MONEY&DE BEBE BOY 
THANKS FOR OUR FIRST 
PLAYOFF SEASON IN BADIN 
HISTORY! 

YOU'LL ALWAYS BE OUR "DADDIES" LOVE THE '92 ATIITUDE 
Interested in Business School? Dean Waddick will speak on MBA schools, financial aid, and other topics that relate to furthering (or beginning) your business education. Come to 115 O'Shag at 6:00 Tuesday, Nov. 3 if you have questions about MBA school. Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. 
To my favorite Irishmen on first floor Cavanaugh: Thank you for taking care of me last week and hopping in bed with me when it was needed. I owe you guys. See me personally for compensation. Love, your Polish BPwite 
To: Curtis, Dave, Jim, Paul &Steve Top 10 List from McCandless SYR I have no shirt on Hold your hand above your head Nose to the ground and beg 
Bathroom stalls are better than 
corkscrews How do you play "3 womyn" Your 15 min. late, but much too early Do we have to kiss them, or just 
beg Is it Polly or Pualy Its a gapping wound, do U think he 
needs stitches You don't have to plug your nose, 
just touch it Thanks tor a great time! Gloria, Carol, Polly, Daniells & Dawn Top Ten Reasons Bush Should Leave the White House: 
10. Each day he's there brings the possibility of (gasp) President Quayle!?! 
9. Term in White House has hit the Kennebunkport economy hard. 
8. Two words: Iran-Contra. 

7. Would give Millie more time to devote to that sequel. 
6. Thinks a domestic affair is a roll in the hay with one of the maids. 
5. Thinks all Americans are outraged that Bill Clinton was against the Vietnam War. 
4. Jim Baker is really running the country, anyway. 
3. He really misses his carefree days in the U.N. 
2. Barbara deserves a better title than "First Lady." AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON: Said "Read My Lips" because he thought it would get a few laughs. 
To my six pack Sus:Wake up! Prof. Howard is sooo stimulating! You have enough poles to supply the entire campus! Kat:Melted cream cheese and a syringe? Flannel foot fires? Your dumping capacity?! Beck:We tear change .... Pass the poi mohallah .... Duct tape .... testosterone deficiency. Cindy: SYR kamikazes and the mystery of the disappearing date. Mir:Lioyd, the column of spuge: Satan's lishtank-MAG!! the toulon of fornication, and Everclear noodles­yum! Bulk 200 tor 5 bucks, the invisible woman I love you guys .... but remember I'm not going to jail for you or anybody!! love the green godzilla 
MARGE 

Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home tor your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
ADOPTION -Loving couple wish to open our hearts & home to your baby. Call Nancy collect (317)824­8312. 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
Hobbes is still not 21, too bad some day you'll drink with us 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
Doctor and teacher will make dreams tor your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education. endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212) 369-2597. 
DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll love this 3rd grade boy who needs tutor. Call me collect in NY for more info @ 718-325-9642 or esc. 
DIET MAGIC! 30 lbs. 30 days. $30. Call (616)471-3970 
Quack Quack GO BATHROOM DUCK!!!! Quack Quack 

To the mysterious flower-sender: Thank you for the roses They're beautiful You're wonderful WE LOVE YOU!! Six PE girls, ACEJLS 
"Spring Break/" Bahamas Cruise (+10 Meals) $279! Panama City with kitchen $119 Cancun $4291 Jamaica $479! Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest $249! Prices increase 12/11/92! 1-800-678-6386 
RIDE NEEDED: Desperately need ride to Milwaukee area this weekend,Nov. 6-8.Will pay gas,tolls,and $$.Call Dave at3213. 
Hey, John and Dan. Friday night was TOO much fun! The next one's in my room & you're the victims! Your pal. 
Jules, the men will find us soon and if they don't, we'll hunt them down. There has to be two sickos like ourselves out there some-where. Thanks tor all the tun. 
Your favorite single pal 

The Observer 


12:17; Beukeboom, NY (hooking), 14:39:
NFL STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS Domi, NY (boarding), 17:01. TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East 
w L T Pet PF Buffalo 6 2 0 .750 206 Miami 6 2 0 .750 202 lndnplis 4 4 0 .500 99 NY Jets 2 6 0 .250 130 New England 0 8 0 .000 87 Central Pttsburgh 6 2 0 .750 159 Houston 5 3 0 .625 199 Cleveland 4 4 0 .500 117 Cincnnati 3 5 0 .375 139 Wast Denver 5 3 0 .625 121 Kan.City 4 4 0 .500 153 San Diego 4 4 0 .500 130 LA Raidrs 3 5 0 .375 122 Seattle 1 7 0 .125 53 NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 
w L T Pet PF Dallas 7 1 0 .875 187 Phila 5 3 0 .625 153 Washingtn 5 3 0 .625 143 NY Giants 4 4 0 .500 174 Phoenix 2 6 0 .250 137 Central Minnesota 5 2 0 .714 173 Chicago 4 3 0 .571 169 Green Bay 3 5 0 .375 117 Tampa Bay 3 5 0 .375 157 Detroit 2 6 0 .250 160 West NewOrlns 6 2 0 .750 140 San Fran 6 2 0 .750 230 Atlanta 3 5 0 .375 163 LA Rams 3 5 0 .375 149 Sunday's Games 
Green Bay 27. Detroit 13 
Pittsburgh 21, Houston 20 
Atlanta 30, Los Angeles Rams 28 
New York Jets 26. Miami 14 
Buffalo 16, New England 7 
New Orleans 23, Tampa Bay 21 
Cincinnati 30, Cleveland 10 
San Diego 26, indianapolis 0 
Dallas 20. Philadelphia 10 
Phoenix 24, San Francisco 14 
New York Giants 24, Washington 7 
Monday's Game 
Minnesota at Chicago. 9 p.m. 
PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 129 3-1-0 3-1-0 4-2-0 2-0-0 4-1-0 151 3-1-0 3-1-0 4-2-0 2-0-0 2-2-0 158 2-2-0 2-2-0 3-4-0 1-0-0 2-1-0 161 2-2-0 0-4-0 2-3-0 0-3-0 2-2-0 192 0-4-0 0-4-0 0-6-0 0-2-0 0-4-0 
97 3-0-0 3-2-0 6-1-0 0-1-0 3-1-0 141 3-1-0 2-2-0 5-3-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 131 2-2-0 2-2-0 3-4-0 1-0-0 1-1-0 184 2-2-0 1-3-0 3-3-0 0-2-0 1-3-0 
154 4-0-0 1-3-0 5-1-0 0-2-0 3-1-0 128 3-1-0 1-3-0 3-3-0 1-1-0 3-1-0 136 3-2-0 1-2-0 4-4-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 137 2-2-0 1-3-0 2-4-0 1-1-0 1-2-0 158 0-3-0 1-4-0 1-5-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 
PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 122 5-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 4-1-0 4-1-0 97 4-0-0 1-3-0 1-1-0 4-2-0 3-2-0 129 4-1-0 1-2-0 1-0-0 4-3-0 1-3-0 168 2-2-0 2-2-0 1-1-0 3-3-0 2-1-0 191 2-2-0 0-4-0 0-0-0 2-6-0 1-4-0 
127 3-1-0 2-1-0 1-0-0 4-2-0 4-1-0 155 3-1-0 1-2-0 0-0-0 4-3-0 3-1-0 164 2-1-0 1-4-0 2-1-0 1-4-0 1-3-0 175 2-2-0 1-3-0 0-1-0 3-4-0 2-3-0 162 1-3-0 1-3-0 0-0-0 2-6-0 2-4-0 
103 3-1-0 3-1-0 0-0-0 6-2-0 2-1-0 149 2-1-0 4-1-0 2-1-0 4-1-0 3-0-0 207 3-1-0 0-4-0 1-1-0 2-4-0 1-2-0 163 3-0-0 0-5-0 2-2-0 1-3-0 0-3-0 
Sunday, Nov. 8 
Cleveland at Houston. 1 p.m. 
Dallas at Detroit. 1 p.m. 
Green Bay at New York Giants, 1 p.m. 
Los Angeles Raiders at Philadelphia. 1 p.m. 
Miami at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. 
Minnesota at Tampa Bay. 1 p.m. 
New Orleans at New England. 1 p.m. 
New York Jets at Denver. 4 p.m. 
Phoenix at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. 
Pittsburgh at Buffalo. 4 p.m. 
San Diego at Kansas City. 4 p.m. 
Washington at Seattle, 4 p.m. 
Cincinnati at Chicago. 8 p.m. 
Monday, Nov. 9 
San Francisco at Atlanta. 9 p.m. 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division 
w L T Pts GF GA Pittsburgh 9 1 2 20 65 41 NY Rangers 7 4 1 15 47 38 New Jersey 7 5 0 14 42 43 NV Islanders 6 5 1 13 46 42 Philadelphia 3 7 3 9 51 60 Washington 4 8 0 8 36 44 Adams Division Montreal 7 3 2 16 55 44 Boston 7 2 1 15 51 32 Quebec 7 3 1 15 51 38 Buffalo 6 3 2 14 58 39 Hartford 3 8 0 6 30 47 Ottawa 1 9 1 3 25 61 CAMPBELL. CONFERENCE Norris Division 
w L T Pts GF GA Detroit 7 5 0 14 49 44 Toronto 6 4 2 14 43 41 Minnesota 6 5 1 13 43 45 Chicago 4 5 3 11 45 43 St. Louis 5 6 11 43 50 Tampa Bay 4 8 1 9 43 43 Smythe Division Calgary 8 4 0 16 49 35 Los Angeles 7 4 1 15 51 46 Vancouver 5 4 1 11 39 32 Winnipeg 4 8 0 8 44 52 Edmonton 3 8 7 33 54 San Jose 2 9 5 31 56 Saturday's Games 
Chicago 3, Boston 2 Los Angeles 7, Hartford 1 Quebec 3, Winnipeg 2 New Jersey 5. New York Islanders 3 Edmonton 4, Washington 2 Toronto 3, Detroit 1 Calgary 5. Minnesota 3 Montreal 4, New York Rangers 3 Buffalo 2. Ottawa 2, tie St. Louis 6, Philadelphia 4 
Sunday's Games Pittsburgh 5. Tampa Bay 4 San Jose 4, Chicago 4, tie 
Monday's Games Buffalo at New York Rangers. 7:40 p.m. Winnipeg at Montreal. 7:40p.m. Vancouver at Calgary. 9:40p.m. 
·--------------------· 
Sabres-Rangers, Sums Buffalo 3 2 0-6 N.Y. Rangers 2 2 2 1-7 
First Period-1, Buffalo. Ramsey 1 (Hawerchuk, Wood), 5:17.2, Buffalo, Patterson 1 (Wood), 10:55 (sh). 3, New York, Amonte 6 (Hardy), 12:00.4, New York, Weight 3 (Kovalev, Cirella), 14:15 (pp). 5, Buffalo, Andreychuk 9 (Mogilny, Bodger), 
16:08 (pp). Penalties-Andreychuk, But (hooking), g:10; LaFontaine, But (holding). 

Second Period-6, Buffalo. Patterson 2 (Hawerchuk), 2:20. 7, New York, Graves 4 (Leetch, Turcotte), 6:04 (pp). 8, Buffalo, Sweeney 7 (Khmylev), 13:57 (sh). 9, New York, Domi 2 (Nemchinov, Erixon), 16:42. Penalties-Moiler, But (high-sticking), 4:57; Andreychuk, But (elbowing), 6:58; Mogilny, But, misconduct, 6:58: Boucher, But (holding), 7:37; Turcotte, NV (holding). 9:10: Nemchinov. NV (high-sticking). 9:14; Turcotte, NY (elbowing), 11 :35; Wood, But (holding), 12:56; Sweeney, But (roughing). 17:30; King. NY (roughing), 17:30; Hardy, NY (interference). 17:30; Corkum. But (tripping). 19:23. 
Third Period-10, New York, Messier 7 (Graves, Beukeboom), 7:43. 11, Buffalo, Khmylev 2 (Mogilny, Hawerchuk), 8:41. 12. New York, Amante 7 (Patrick, Messier). 
19:28 (pp). Penalties-King, NV (holding stick). 10:34; Patrick, NY (tripping). 11:34: Boucher, But (cross-checking), 18:50; Andreychuk. But (high-sticking). 19:34. 
Overtime-13, New York. Turcotte 4 (Messier, Leetch), :58 (pp). Shots on goal-Buffalo 13-11-1 0-0-34. New York 13-14-16-1-44. Power-play Opportunities-Buffalo 1 of 8: New York 4 of 9. 
Goalies-Buffalo, Puppa, 4-2-2 (44 shots­37 saves). New York, Richter (13-10). Vanbiesbrouck (0:00 second. 6-5). Richter, 5-2-0 (11 :35 second. 15-13). 
A-17,617. Referee-Dan Marouelli. Linesmen-Ron Finn. Gord Broseker. 
Saturday's Games 
Indiana 109, Boston 96 
Miami 1 08, New Jersey 1 02 
Chicago 1 07. Denver 1 03 
San Antonio 119. LA Clippers 106. OT 
Philadelphia 107, Detroit g7 
Houston 118, Atlanta 110 Sunday's Games 
Golden State 126, Charlotte 114 
Sacramento 111 , Portland 1 03 
Milwaukee 110, Minnesota 104 Monday's Games San Antonio vs. Dallas at Fort Worth. Texas, 8:30p.m. 
Phoenix at Utah. g p.m. 
LA Clippers vs. Golden State at Reno. Nev., 9:30p.m. Tuesday's Game 1992 Hall of Fame Game, Charlotte vs. Portland at Springfield. Mass .. 7:30p.m. End NBA Preseason 
BASEBALL National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Fired Jim Frey, senior vice president and special player consultant. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Waived David Wesley, guard. INDIANA PACERS-Waived Frank Kornet. forward, and Jean Prioleau, guard. 
NEW JERSEY NETS-Waived Melvin Newbern and Mark Brisker, guards. and Fred Herzog, forward. Continental Basketball Association 
TULSA ZONE-Announced the retirement of Doc Nunnally, trainer. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Recalled David Littman, goaltender, from Atlanta of the International Hockey League. 
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Assigned Brad Schlegel, defenseman, to Baltimore of the American Hockey League. East Coast Hockey League 
LOUISVILLE ICEHAWKS-Named Dave Alcorta general manager. SOCCER National Professional Soccer League 
CLEVELAND CRUNCH-Signed Glenn Carbonara. defenseman. to a one-year contract. COLLEGE 
BENTLEY-Named Ed Lyons men's and women's tracik and cross country coach. 
EDINBORO-Named Sarah Bishop-Jay women's assistant basketball coach and Sterling Washington men's assistant basketball coach. 
ST. JOHN'S-Named Debbie BraJevich women's assistant basketball coach. 
CAUTION: CHILDREN NOT AT PLAY. 
I''~ o· , l1ildn-n ~p·nttlu·irlin11· f\Untlll\1 ,.nd [l!a~1na: 11ot1.:11 ltll'y·~ 
""'''" W....l~·l"l.,·l<•mlll i11 (RII"I\10\11"· I' \.'"'MII~··IIIIIIIl"'\1\0C mu<\: n•·•i•··· I whnul{ h1w, rlio;o:·a~· ma~· bt· ~-•lmf!lo·a•rh•ld.,pt~~ T" lrwn nl••r• •••nt:t<"l\ofllrlh.'iln'lol:\l!t':ffi1lllll<,lr' A...,.._,~lhm 
~··N r(llllu/p (•ffl"l'>ll lrl'"flrrdUlllv rl"!•:• .l.r II( fQII Ml.l'>lr 11,,. 
~mericon Heart Association,., 


7--9 FREE PIZZA 
9, 2 Travel around the world Thursday: 
9... 2 Start your weekend off right 
mustbe21 

-----------------------------------------------------~~----------------------------­
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, November 16,1992 
Deja-vu! Vikings pick-off the Bears 

CHICAGO (AP)  - They called  Rio, who entered the game with  
the old Minnesota Vikings the  just three interceptions in 7 1/2  
"Purple People Eaters."  NFL seasons with New Orleans,  
Jim Harbaugh and the Chicago  Kansas  City,  Dallas  and  the  
Bears must think of the  new  Vikings. Last week, he just missed  
Vikings  as  the  "Purple  Pass  a game-saving interception two  
Eaters."  plays before Washington's Chip  
The Vikings beat Harbaugh and  Lohmiller kicked the deciding  
the Bears 38-10 Monday night to  .·.  field goal at Minneapolis.  
take command of the NFC Central  And  it overshadowed three  
race as journeyman linebacker Jack Del Rio turned the game  ,-sacks of Harbaugh by John4J Randle, who led a pass rush that  
with an 84-yard interception return for a touchdown and  I  ..,  -#  dropped the quarterback four times.  
picked off another Harbaugh pass  Courtesy of Stanford UniverSity  The Vikings led 14-3 at halftime  

to end a Chicago threat and set First-year co~ch Dennis Green, on 1-yard touchdown runs by up a Minnesota field goal. show~ .here With Stanford, has led Roger Craig and Terry Allen, the Another linebacker, Carlos the Vikings to a 6-2 record. second following another Chicago 
Jenkins, added the final insult by returning an interception off Peter Tom Willis 19 yards for a touchdown. 
It was the second time this season that the Bears were done in by Minnesota interceptions. The Vikings won the first meeting 21-20 when Todd Scott's fourth-quarter return for a TD began a run that erased a 20-0 Chicago lead. Scott's TD at the Metrodome a month ago came on an audible that drove coach Mike Ditka to verbally assault his quarterback on the sideline. 
The combination of the two wins over Chicago left Minnesota at 6-2 and effectively three games ahead of the Bears {4-4) in the division. That's because if the two teams tie, the Vikings get the first tiebreaker by virtue of the two victories. 
The worst home loss in Ditka's 11 seasons as coach of the Bears was a career game for Del turnover, Darren Lewis'. fumble at his 32. 

On the first play of the second half, Allen fumbled and Shaun Gayle recovered at the Minnesota 21. On the next play, Harbaugh aimed for Tom Wad­dle over the middle. 
Waddle was slowed when he ran into umpire Neil Gereb and Del Rio dove and grabbed the pass just before it hit the ground. Then he got up and rumbled down the left sideline, breaking tackles before cutting back for the end zone. 
So just 20 seconds after Chicago seemed ready to close the deficit to 14-10 and 36 seconds into the second half, it was 21-3 and the rout was on. Later in the third quarter, the Bears drove methodically to the Minnesota 29 before a motion penalty set them back to the 34, where they faced a third and 10. 
Pocket Professional'" Sonware 
Plug-In Textbook 
Expand the power ofyour HP 48SX calculator. Access equations, formulae & technical data instantly! 
1 Calculus  1  Mathematics  
1  Electrical Engineering  1  Physics  
1  Mechanical Engineering  1 Spice48  
1 General Chemistry  1 Solid State Electronics  
1 Statistics  1 Celestial Navigation  

AVAILABLE AT vouR coLLEGE BooKsToRE 
Snarcom 
OR CALL 1-800-827-8416 (EXT 552) J:CoRPORATION 
GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, November 8 3:00-7:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflections focused on biblical texts. 
Place: fischer Community Center Cost The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which there will be a $3.00 charge. CALL BY FRIDAY NOVEMBER 6 TO RESERVE A PlACE. Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 

Frustrated Lions must 'look in the mirror' during critical time 
PONTIAC, Mich. (AP) -This 
is clearly a critical time for the 
Detroit Lions. Not for the rest of 
this season. It's more serious 
than that. 

The way Jerry Ball bristled 
after the Lions' 27-13 loss to 
Green Bay on Sunday, it was 
clear that the next few weeks 
might determine this team's 
direction for the rest of this 
decade. 

"The first thing we got to do is 
go face a mirror," said Ball, the 
Lions' undisputed leader both 
on and off the field. "Every man 
has to assess himself." 

His frustration is understand­
able. 

'Last year, playing with un­
common poise for a team so 
young, the Lions captured the 
imagination of the NFL and the 
country. With their potent of­
fense, they went 12-4, won the 
NFC Central title and went all 
the way to the conference 
championship game. One 
heartbeat away from the Super 
Bowl. 

This year, they hoped to go all 
the way. Instead, the Lions got 
off to a 1-5 start. Since the 
1982 strike season, and 
excluding this year, 29 NFL 
teams have started their season 
1-5. None qualified for the 
playoffs. 

The last team to start 1-5 and 
reach the playoffs was the 
Cincinnati Bengals in 1970. It's 
almost a lock that the Lions 
won't crack that streak this 
year. 

Detroit is 3-6, and the Dallas Cowboys come to town next. 
"This is a low point," quar­terback Rodney Peete said. "This is the lowest we've been since I've been here. 
"You'd want to talk about the light at the end of the tunnel. But it's really looking dim right now." 
The Lions felt they might be on the rebound after a 38-7 victoiry at Tampa Bay a week earlier. But Green Bay held De­troit to 190 yards of offense, sacking Peete four times for 29 yards in losses. 
The Packers, with a new coach and a new quarterback, rolled up 347 yards and con­verted 10 of 16 third-down sit­uations. 
The question was put to Ball: What do you tell the puzzled fans who want to know what's wrong with the Lions? 
Ball began to speak, then paused. There was fire in his eyes. 
"I can only tell you what I know," Ball said. "But I'm not going to do that. It could be dis­ruptive to the team, to this whole organization. 
"The course we're taking right now is not going to win a championship. And I'm only interested in winning a cham­pionship. I'm going to win a championship before I get out of this game." 
Make of that what you will. It could mean Ball will play out his contract and leave this team. 
Happy 21st Birthday, Pete 

Still Lookin' Innocent After All These Years. 
Love and best wishes from, 
THE KUZMICH KLAN 

ENTER NOW 
BASKETBALL MEN Is I NTERHALL WOMEN'S INTERHALL GRAD/FAC/STAFF CLUB 
HOCKEY MEN Is I NTERHALL GRADUATE 
IJALLYBALL CAMPUS CO-REC 
ENTRIES BEGIN OCTOBER 27 DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 3 
--------~----------------­

Tuesday, November 3,1992 The Observer page 17 
SMC Volleyball ends on positive note 

By HEATHER WILEY Sports Writer 
On Sunday, it might be a good idea to check out the action at Cartier field when the girls in­terhall football playoffs begin-sparks seem to be flying everywhere, along with footballs. 
The matchups include a mod­quad grudge match between the Pasquerilla West Weasels and the Siegfried Slammers after the Slammers (formerly 2­
2) soundly defeated the unde­feated Weasels 26-6 in the last game of regular season play, which gave the Slammers their play-off berth. The game will begin at 9p.m. at Cartier field. 
Lewis will face Lyons for the first time this season. Both teams have shown an im­provement in moving the ball over the last few weeks, and both teams have a good chance at the championship. The game will begin at 6 p.m. at Cartier field. 
BP faces Knott in another cross-league play-off this Sun­day. Knott, which has shown great offensive improvement since the beginning of the sea­son faces a strong BP team which is looking for a repeat of last year's championship. They will meet at 4 p.m. at Cartier. 
Badin and Walsh will renew their rivalry again this week­end. Badin defeated Walsh last year in the play-offs, and looks for another victory this year. But Walsh has beaten Badin once already this year. You can catch this game at 5 p.m. on Sunday. 

-
I j l 
~ 
l 
l 
I I I 1 I I 1 I I 1 I I 
I 
j I 
I 

By EILEEN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team ended their season this past weekend in a quad-meet against Schoolcraft Junior Col­lege, Goshen College and Hunt­ington College. They finished 1­2 in the meet defeating Goshen, but losing to Schoolcraft and Huntington. 
The Belles dropped their first match against Schoolcraft, 15­10, 3-15, 13-15. 
"The team played very well," stated Coach Julie Schroeder­Biek. "They (Saint Mary's) were proud of their play. We were aware that Schoolcraft was an excellent team. It was a loss, but when you play as well as we did, you can't be disap­pointed." 
In the last game against Schoolcraft, the Belles were down at one point 2-8, but bat­tled back 8-9 outscoring them 6-1. The game was point for point until the end with School­craft succeeding. 
In that match, senior co-cap­tain Karen Lorton contributed 15 kills while Kim Branstetter chipped in 10 more. Lorton, 6'2", led the team in digs in all three matches. Against Schoolcraft, Lorton came up with 19 digs while fellow captain Laura Panowicz had 12 digs. 
"Karen had the opportunity to come out with those statistics because it was evident that the other teams were centering their offense around her. They falsely assumed she wouldn't be able to dig," explained Shroeder-Biek. 
Saint Mary's turned around and beat Goshen in the next match (16-14, 4-15, 16-14), but not with the impressive play of their prior match. 
"They (Goshen) were incred­ibly scrappy and we had to keep plugging away," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Goshen's off-speed hitting forced Saint Mary's to really pay attention to the ball. Goshen was down 5-0, and 6-0 in the first and third games but managed to come back for a battle. 
"We were a little sloppy and not throwing a good, hard at­tack," continued Schroeder­Biek. 
Lorton produced 15 kills and 13 digs against Goshen with junior Mary Wheeler contribut­ing 11 digs. 
Huntington College, who came out of the meet 3-0, seemed to attack everything Saint Mary's put over the net in the Belles' final match (10-15, 15-13, 11-15). 
The Belles ended the season 17-13 with some individual highlights, as well. Karen Lor­ton has been ranked second in Division III in hitting percent­age at .4849. She has also been ranked second in kills/game with a 4.96 average. Junior Kim Branstetter has been ranked tenth in digs/game with 4.51 average. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team is ranked nationally fifth in hitting percentage (.287) and digs/game (22.69). 
"This was a very positive way to end the season," praised Schroeder-Biek. 
ThE CoMeDy OfErRoRs 
Performed by The National Shakespeare Company Monday & Tuesday November 2 & 3 Washington Hall 8:10pm Student Tickets $7 

Sponsored by The Student Activities Office and Student Union Board Tickets available at the Lafortune Information Desk 239-8128 
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan 
Interviews for Notre Dame seniors interested in Corporate Finance will be held in Chicago on Friday, January 8, 1993 
Please submit a cover letter and resume by November 20 to: Alice Richardson Fisher 60 Wall Street 
J.R ,~organ & Co. Incorporated New JfJrk, NY 10260-0060 
JPMorgan 
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer 
page 18 

-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Magic 
continued from page 20 
world of the NBA." 
It was only Friday night, after the Laker's final exhibition game, that Johnson had said he and the team were ready for the upcoming season. Johnson made only 1 of 10 field-goal attempts while scoring eight points in the Lakers' 103-92 loss to Cleveland at Chapel Hill, 
N.C. He played 28 minutes and had five assists. 
Johnson, the NBA's career leader in assists with 9,921, shocked the sports world last Nov. 7 when he suddenly announced his retirement. He said he was quitting because he recently had tested HIV positive. 

I 
Not long after, he began contemplating a comeback and in February was the Most Valuable Player in the NBA All­Star game, when he scored 25 points and made three straight 
3-pointers in the final five 

~ 
minutes. A week later, his number was 

t retired by the Lakers, but even at that time he made it clear he was considering a return. He continued to work out during the spring and was a key member of the U.S. team that won the gold medal in men's basketball at the Barcelona Olympics. After leading Michigan State to the 1979 NCAA cham­pionship, Johnson went on to averaged 19.7 in 12 seasons for the Lakers, leading them to five NBA championships. Obviously, his mind changed over the weekend although there was nothing in his statement to indicate what caused him to reconsider. 
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 272,6722 Serving tli.e 'J{ptre 'Dame community for over 30 years 

The Observer Tuesday, November 3,1992 
Volleyball ready for Wolverine's challange 



By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team has proven that it belongs among the nation's elite by compiling a 21-5 record and holding down the number 22 ranking in the American Vol­leyball Coaches' Association poll, as well as the 4th spot in the NCAA regional poll. As the season enters its stretch run, the Irish must jockey for posi­tion among those top teams in preparation for post-season tournament play. 
Though Michigan is not ranked nationally and is num­ber 9 in the region, tonight's 
7:30 home match against the Wolverines (16-7, 8-4 in the Big Ten) is a key to that process. 
"This is an important match because of the rankings," coach Debbie Brown stressed. "It's not going to improve our position, but it will maintain it and I think that's pivotal." 
Michigan, on the other hand, has a chance to improve its standings. The top eight teams in each region traditionally move on to the NCAA tourna­ment, so the Wolverines must topple some higher-ranked clubs if they hope to secure a bid. 
Michigan's upset hopes ride on a balanced offensive attack. Senior setter Tarnisha Thomp­son has dispersed her assists among five different players who have over 100 kills on the season. With all six of the Wolverine starters returning from last year, Brown doesn't believe the team has any glar­ing weak spots. 
"With everybody back, they have strong cohesiveness as a team," Brown commented on her opponents. "They also have good balance as far as set distribution, which makes it hard to stop just one player." 
Notre Dame boasts a bal­anced attack as well, but the team has been trying to im­prove its efficiency on the of­fensive side of the net. Last weekend's victories over Evansville and Butler revealed an improvement in that area, which Brown hopes to maintain tonight. 
"We've really been working on the side out game; on pass, set, and hit," she explained. "We want to cut down on un­forced errors. That has been a weak spot all season, whereas our defense has been excellent. We want our offense to be as good as our defense." 
The offense should get a boost from the return of sophomore outside hitter Christy Peters, who sat out the weekend matches due to a bout with the flu. Peters leads the Irish in kills and attempts. 
Conference considerations, which are also important in national rankings, play a role in this matchup as well. The Big Ten is viewed as one of the stronger leagues in the nation, while the Midwest Collegiate Conference has yet to gain such a strong reputation. 
"I think the Big Ten is a pretty strong conference, but not overwhelming," Brown assessed. "We are very com­petitive with the teams from third on down. We could also compete with Illinois and Penn State (the Big Ten's top two)." 
Those teams do not appear on the Notre Dame schedule, but matches against them could materialize in the NCAA tour­nament. For now, Notre Dame will concentrate on tonight's match with the Wolverines in hopes to solidify its chances for a bid. 
~~~ -~ ... ......... --~::::::=;...
A ._ ·~ ~., • ~ ...... ~ •----"• '~....-~.--.., ...._, .-..--.,_._.,_. , ·~ .--.,.., , ~--~ ~ ....,w -·-·----.__
I _.---I ... _ ,..__.-.!.____. __ ,..-._....__ s--. ­
~­

.-. ----.· ----__,_ ___ ..,. _, ---......-.. ­
... ··---... ___... ~ -____, --...... ~-·---. . ·­
--~ --.,...._,_ .... .__ -., ._. --· 'WL \,_ L..ol ........... ~­-...._,_ -~--"' -._ -.. -·-,, -. .__ •• • I ~ 
_. .._. _.. ...,..._ -...__.._-.. --.. __ ......... .. 4 ' 
-.......-. -_.. -. • -... -.,._ • -....... • • L-.­
---.... _. -. -..,-..-. ... --­
--~-....-............-.
.. -.... -..... .. ...__. -----~ ~ 
... -,~ -,.., .._., . ---.... ___.... ...., ~:;:;::;::s:~
,,_.,........._ .... ._.. ~-­
'~ ~ 
-...... --...,... ~ ____.... 
Investment Banking Opportunities at First Boston 
First Boston, a global investment banking firm headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its financial analyst program. This t'wo-year program offers individuals a unique opportunity to gain experience in the investment banking industry. Individuals with all academic backgrounds are encouraged to join our Firm. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department in New York and in various Regional Offices. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representatiVGS for an introduction to the finn and the analyst program on: 
Wednesday, November 4, 1992 Foster Room La Fortune Student Center 7:00p.m. 
Interview date: January 28, 1993 
For further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
Greg Dingens Investment Banking (312) 750-3071 
-• 
&l~ FIRST BosTON 
,....~ ~-...•·~ 
~ .,. mcmhcr of lht.• <:'; FJr~r Bo!\lon CrHup 

W I 
nnw 



Today 

._T_ue_s_da_y_,N_o_v_em_b_e_r_3._1_99_2_____________________B_ro_u_g~h_t_t_o_y~o_u__b_y_o_o__M_I_N_o__·s_______________________________P_a_ge_1_9_ 
WALL/ COLLINS Host of "Stand Up , Stand Up " on Comedy Central Appearing Nov. 17 at LaFortune Ballroom B:IJO p.m. 
1ickets go on sale Nov. 9 at the LaFortune Info. Desk Price of admission: $3.00 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 


As seen on S4turday Night Live Featuring the hits "Little Miss Can't Be Wrong" anJ 'Jimmy Olsen sB/ueJ" 

Appearing 8 p.m. Tuesday, Nov. 10 at Stepan Center · Tickets $10 at LaFortune Info Desk 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I IX:>~T 'N~T 10 GO TC 
SC\.\OOL ! I 1-ll\\t. SC\.\OOL! I'D R/>..~ER IX:> ANYTHING 
1\11>.1'1. GO 10 SOIOOL ! 
I• I 
a:, 110'« A~T IF I 6::l iO SCI-IOOL ~D YoU <*\f... jO~? 
51 Violent 52 An objet d'art 53-history 55 Sheeplike 56 Eternally 57 Ruin 58 Office machine 
59 Plexus &OYoke 
DOWN 
1 Proscribe 2 Part of the 
whole 3Kindofbus 4 Formal-dinner 
item 5Knave 6 In addition 1 Bed-and-board 
stops &Traumatic experience on Elm Street 
t Sermon site 10 Birdlike 11 Posted 12 Youngsters 
13 A Khan 21 -Rogers St. Johns 22 Actress in 
"Rocky" 25 Forming tool 26 With crashing 
noises 27 Nerve: Comb. form 
BILL WATTERSON 
'tO\.J'LL LIKE \'-1~\c:'.I~G T\U. ITS 1'-\\CE \b ¥:NOW iWC.R£S 
B/EI'o\ING ~.Nt> 8£1~G 9J !o\IJCI\ IN L\IT \C RES1'0~51SL£ FOR 1'14E. LOOK ~~W~~t> TO. SU~S\51£~~ 0~ '{C1-}R FM.I.ILt Win-\ A W~l~'( KIDS 
GRIPING R)R Rt.WARD. 
28 Musical piece 42 Cater (to) 48 Wasp-nest locale
29 Decoy 43 Famed 30 One's strength physicist: 41 River into the 
1775-1836 
Bay of the Seine 
31 Sudden violent 44 Effulgence so Actresseffort 45 Advantage Thompson
33 False alibi? 46 Diner drink 34 Strips of 
47 Final notice, for 51 Hardware item everything short 54 Actor Herbert 36Landed proprietor in 
Get answers to any three clues
Glasgow 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
37 Wild water buffalo of India 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

1987 Faf'Worl<s, Inc./Distributed by Universal Press 

Ornithology 101 field trips 






DOMINO'S PIZZA 
Today's Special: 
1 Large 
Thin~Grust 
Pizza 

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any 
Call Now 

other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our 
drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino1s Pizza, Inc. 
ND 271 ..0300 
SMC 289--0033 MENU 


NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S 
Italian Bar Breast Sandwich 
Italian Grilled Chicken 

Roast Beef Manicotti iii ·· Turkey Pot Pie Shepherd's Pie 
LECTURES Tuesday
12:30 p.m. "Political Culture and the Stability of Democracy in Central America: An empirical evaluation." Mitchell Seligson, University of Pittsburgh. Room C-103, Hesburgh Cent(}t. Sponsored })y the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. · 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Planning Spatial Movement Using Constraint Manifolds," J. Michael McCarthy, professor, University of California Irvine. Room 303, Cushing Hall. Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical ~~gineering. 



1\IQI'ay -~c 
7 to 9 p. • uditions, " g of the Shrew" by William Shakespeare. Room 220 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by 
th~ ~~don :~pgr~~''''(·': ~t..,;,:?Jti,
7:30 p~m.> ·The Afticctn Video Series. "New Conflicts" and "In 
Search of Stability" Room 107. Montgomery Theatre. · 
LaFortun~f\ Adm on free. Sponsored by the African Student Assoclatio ...... " 
8:10 p.m. l\lationa.l Shakespeare Company. "A Comedy o Errors," Washington Hall. Admission charged. Sponsored by Student ActiVities and Student Union Board. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Thank-you­ma'am 5 Nugatory 9 Tortellini, e.g. t•lndigo source 15 Vedic god 16 Of an eye part 
17 Columbus's pet name for the Santa Clara 
18 Resounded 19 A 1930's dance 20Bangkok 
bargaining brouhahas of yore? 
23Heaven on earth 24Scanty 25 Surgeon's tool 
28 Expel 29 Forestry degrees 32 " ... -live girl" 33 Navigator's aid 34 Hoof noise 35 Refrain from an 
Italian travel ad? 
38 Unyielding 39 Superior's inferior 
40Schisms 41 Leandro's girl 
•2 Water conduit 43 Wreath, to Tennyson 44 Flesh: Comb. 
form 45 Kind of corner 46 Mexican cash 
from a U.S. tourist? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..:....t-!4-=~~ 
..=.f:::..j.:.:~ 
~==+;~.j.::...( 
*.=-F.-+:-+:--4 
.;;.f.:~~ 




Sports 
I 
'I ~ I 
r 
; 
-~­
page 20 

MIKE SCRUDATO 

Random Thoughts 

Football politics: The campaign for the National Champion 
This year the pollsters seem to be 
more undecided about the nation's top 
college football team than the 
American public is about our next 
president. 
Both Miami and Washington have 
been atop the polls twice, and neither 
has lost a game. 
This year though, a win is not enough 
to stay on top of the polls. A team has 
to be impressive. 
The Huskies have been most recently, 
demolishing then 15th-ranked 
Stanford, 41-7, on Saturday. 
Washington will have a chance to add 
to their lead this week against Arizona, 
the team that knocked Miami from the 
top spot earlier this season by scaring 
the 'Canes while falling 8-7. 
But, the Hurricanes should be able to 
make a late-season surge, when they 
close their season against lOth-ranked 
Syracuse and Marshall Faulk-led San 
Diego State. 
It is obvious that both the Huskies 
and Hurricanes are national 
championship material. but until a 
playoff system is instituted, fans will be 
forced to rely on the pollsters' opinions 
to give one of them the title of national 
champion. 
The 61 writers in the Associated 
Press poll should do whatever they can 
to make up their minds. Doing so is as 
complicated as choosing a president, 
and there are a lot of similarities in the 
races. The two front-runners, 
Washington and Miami, are ahead of 
the field, but others are on the ballot 
and some are attracting some support. 
Alabama, the Ross Perot of the "Race 
for Number-One," has received one 
first-place vote for the past few weeks. 
The Tide jumped past Michigan into 
the third spot this week: not because of 
there performance (they were idle), but 
because of the Wolverines' struggle 
against Purdue. 
As things look now, 'Barna and 
Michigan will get to go head-to-head 
with Miami and Washington in the 
Sugar and Rose Bowls respectively. 
Texas A&M is also undefeated, but 
not too many people besides their 
faithful supporters know a lot about 
the Aggies. 
In the presidential race, fringe 
candidates are hurt by lack of 
exposure, and the same is true in the 
college _football world. The Aggies are 
on national television about as often as 
Lyndon Larouche. 
Larouche has his annual infomercial, 
and the Aggies have the Cotton Bowl. 
However, this season the bowl coalition 
is going to prevent them from playing 
one of the more prominentcontenders. 
The pollsters have until January 2 to 
decide on college football's top team. 
The rest of the country is not so 
lucky-we have to weigh our options 
and choose our next president today. 
~ii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 
r:•::;'/17o-=t-=-le-y7b-a-;:ll:--::t-o-=f:-a-ce---=M-==i:-c-:-h-:-ig-a-n-----, 
see page 18 
•sMC Volleyball ends season 
see page 17 
•Monday Night Football results 
seepage 16 

Tuesday, November 3,1992 
Soccer seniors win in cold home finale· 
By JASON KELLY anthem still echoed in the distance. numb but happy. Sports Writer Five minutes later, Dillmann scored "We knew that the weather would what proved to be the game winner, make things tough on the defense in the 
Playing soccer in November in converting an assist from goalkeeper second half," Berticelli commented. "I northern Indiana isn't the best idea in Bert Bader. was pleased with the way we played in the world, but the Notre Dame men's "I told them (the seniors) at the the difficult conditions." soccer team didn't seem to mind beginning of the year, 'this is your team,' The Irish also had to play much of the Tuesday's pneumonia-inducing and they've all done a tremendous job," game without talented freshman Bill conditions in a 2-1 win over Miami Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "They Lanza, who left with a leg injury in the (Ohio). have laid a good foundation and they first half. 
Seniors Mario Tricoci, Kevin deserve the credit for the turnaround of Notre Dame fmishes the regular season Pendergast and Brendan Dillmann the program." at 9-6-2, and Berticelli is pleased with played their final home game at Alumni Miami made the game interesting in the way the team has performed. Field, which was better suited for a the second half. With the Irish holding a "I think we've had an excellent year," water-skiing competition than a soccer 2-0 lead, Brian Ragone blasted an un­he said. "We had some bad breaks, but game. stoppable shot into the upper corner of everyone has played hard. If some of 
Despite the weather, it was a the net, to bring the Redskins to within those breaks go our way it's an entirely memorable finale for the seniors. one at the 77:22 mark. different season." 
Pendergast helped get the Irish off to a As time wound down, Miami had some The Midwestern Collegiate Conference good start. Less than 30 seconds into the other good scoring chances. but they tournament opens Thursday in game, he set up Notre Dame's first goal couldn't put the ball in the net, and Notre Indianapolis, with an NCAA tournament on a pass to sophomore Jason Fox, which Dame sent the handful of fans who bid awaiting the winner. Notre Dame is gave the Irish the lead while the national braved the blustery conditions home seeded third in the tournament. 
Women say good-bye with wins but no NCAA bid 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

After finding out early Monda~ morning that his team would miss the NCAA tournament for a second straight year Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli couldn't help but be disappointed. 
A 15-3-1 record and a 15th overall ranking were not enough to get Petrucelli's squad into postseason, even after a pair of wins this weekend ended the Irish season with five straight wins. 
'Tm disappointed we didn't get in, because we had a great season," said Notre Dame's third year coach. "I would have to say that we were the last team not to get in." 
Last season the Irish entered a season ending game with South Florida, convinced that a win would result in a tourna­ment bid, but a physical game ended in a 3-0 loss. 
This year, Notre Dame did all it could to impress the NCAA committee up to the selection day. Petrucelli's squad grabbed the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title with a 2-1 win over Xavier, followed by last Saturday's victory against Wright State by the same score. 
Chilling weather couldn't stall Notre Dame's offense against the Musketeers. Freshmen Michelle McCarthy and Ragen Coyne converted two direct kicks, and the Irish defense held The Observer/Jake Peters 
Senior Michelle Lodyga, shown here making a save against
Xavier to four shots on goal. 

LaSalle, finished a successful career over the weekend, but the
After Coyne scored fifteen minutes into the game, Xavier 
Irish failed to receive a bid to the NCAA tournament.
forward Jodi Garrison was able to knot the score, beating Seniors Lodyga, Margaret Jarc, Denise Chabot and were
Notre Dame goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga to her right. The tie major contributors to the rise of the program from a club level
remained until McCarthy's score from the left side of the goal to national prominence. 
eight minutes into the second half. "This group has been through a great deal," Petrucelli said.
Coyne got the game-winner against WSU, after Notre Dame "Looking back I don't think that they or I thought that we
came back from a goal deficit, with two late goals in the game's would be in the position we are in today. They deserve a lot of 
final four minutes. the credit for the jump this program has made." 
WSU took the lead at the 85:39 mark, after a scoreless first "I knew you could be successful at Notre Dame quickly, but I
half, on a .score from midfielder Christy Peters. Notre Dame's didn't think we would be this successful so soon," he said. 
Gennifer Kwiatkowski answered Peter's goal seventy seconds A youthful Notre Dame team returns its top seven scorers for
later, scoring her second goal of the season. Coyne followed up next year and key defenders Jill Matesic and Andi Kurek,
Kwiatkowski's shot with the winning goal in the final minute of leaving Petrucelli and the departing seniors optimistic about
the game. It came after a WSU penalty gave the Irish a free the future. 
kick "We (the seniors) were all hoping that we would get in but I

"We were under a lot of pressure. They were must win guess it wasn't meant to be," said Jarc. "We will always be a
games for us. It was not our best, but under the difficult part of the program and when the team does make the tour­
conditions we played well," commented Petrucelli. nament. We will know we had a great deal to do with it." 
The departing seniors have watched Notre Dame's program rise to national prominence over their four seasons. 
AIDS still reason for Magic's second retirement 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) -Magic expressed concern about playing with Johnson, who returned to the Los Angeles Johnson for fear of contracting the virus. Lakers on Sept. 29 after missing last One NBA general manager, speaking only season with the AIDS virus, said today he on condition that he not be identifed by is retiring for good. name, told The New York Times that 
Johnson announced his decision just Johnson should step aside to avoid any four days before the beginning of the NBA controversy. season. Johnson played in five of the Lakers' 
"After much thought and talking it over eight preseason games, averaging 10.4 
with Cookie and my family, I decided I points and nearly 12 assists a game. will retire -for good -from the ''I've come to realize that it simply isn't Lakers." Johnson said in a statement possible to return to playing in the NBA issued by the team. and still continue to be involved in all the 
"It has become obvious that the various things I want to do," Johnson's statement controversies surrounding my return are said. "Although my family has given me taking away from both basketball as a their support to return to the Lakers, I sport and the larger issue of living with feel that it is more important to spend my HIV for me and the many people time with them as well as continuing with affected." HIV and AIDS education projects than in Several NBA stars, including fellow the competitive and time-consuming Dream Team member Karl Malone, have see MAGIC/page 18 









