

THURSDAY , MARCH 26, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
VOL. XXIV N0.118 
Senate addresses appeals on campaign violations· 
Student Senate members vote to uphold Farmer's and Callahan's senatorial elections 
By ALICIA REALE Farmer his position as senator paigned in Carroll Hall after the Reindl. Certo added, saying, "What Assistant News Editor of District 1 and to forfeit the deadline. The committee found no con­I've seen here (the violations) I 
candidacy of Callahan as Speaking for the committee, clusive evidence of illegal cam­never expected to find here at 
District 3 senator. Travis Reindl explained the paigning in Carroll, Reindl Notre Dame." 
Two appeals to the Student After much debate about each reasons behind the decision to added. Farmer admitted he did He said Farmer's campaignSenate Election Ethics Commit­case, Student Senate members keep Farmer's candidacy. attend mass there but con­posters wrongly accused him. tee's decisions on the recent se­voted to maintain the decision According to Reindl, Alumni firmed that he did not campaign He added that he will work with natorial elections were brought regarding Farmer but to over­has limited bulletin board space after the midnight deadline that the senate to improve the elec­before the Student Senate last turn Callahan's forfeiture. so that Farmer's posters cov­Sunday evening. toral process guidelines. night at their final meeting. Farmer, a Morrissey fresh­ered several of Certo's. For this The committee decided that Defending his campaign,
The committee had previously man, was accused of campaign­violation, Farmer was penalized the violations were not severe Farmer said, "I tried to operatereviewed the appeals brought ing violations by former District $12 (2 5 percent of the $40 enough and there was no delib­by a standard. It (the campaign) by Dave Certo and AI Nicgorski 1 Senator Alumni Hall Junior campaign budget). erate and malicious intent to was issue oriented and open to regarding the campaigns of the Dave Certo. The violations The writing on Certo's posters demand a forfeiture, Reindl voter discretion. I was just
winning candidates Tyler were: by Farmer supporters was said. trying to point out some issues Farmer and Tim Callahan re­•Farmer hung literature over determined to be "not ethically HPC Co-Chair Charlie James people had problems about. spectively. Certo's in Alumni on small bul­questionable," Reindl said. disagreed with the committee's The voters, I think, agreed with 
Campaign violations can lead leting boards; Farmer was fined $18 (40 per­decision. "Monetary fines are my issues." 
to a mandatory forfeiture of •Certo posters were turned cent of the budget). not enough. He (Farmer) should Farmer added that there office if malicious intent can be over in Morrissey and Farmer The money from both penal­not get the candidacy," said were no personal attacks on the proven. according to the sen­supporters had written "Vote ties will be donated to a charity James. "He must play by the Student Senate or Certo in his ate's constitution. The commit­Morrissey" on them; in consultation with both rules. I move for the forfeiture tee had decided to allow •Farmer had illegally cam-Farmer and Certo, according to of his candidacy." see SENATE/page 4 
Refugees go Juday receives high honor back to Haiti from Vatican for service 
SABANA GRANDE DE BOYA, By RYAN KERRIGAN as Indiana Master of the Fourth Dominican Republic (AP) -News Writer Degree for 12 years. Tens of thousands of Haitians Other projects that Juday who fled or were expelled last has been involved in include year have returned to the The highest award granted the original committee to set up Dominican Republic and the by the Holy See to Catholic laity the Inter-City Catholic Basket­
harsh labor of its canefields. was recently given to Bud Ju­ball League in South Bend, the 
Driven back by the crisis in day. an employee at the Hes­Logan Center, Sister Maria's their troubled homeland, they burgh library. Day Care Center for urban risk being bounced across the The award, the Equestrian youth, junior high basketball border yet again: Dominican Order of the Knights of the Holy coach, fund raising for Corvilla, authorities intend to renew a Sepulcher of Jerusalem Award, a local residence for the much-criticized program of is bestowed upon Catholics who mentally handicapped and the mass deportation. have exhibited a life of Gibault School for Boys in Terre 
Before the Sept. 30 coup in exceptional service. Mr. Juday Haute, Indiana, of which he has Haiti. Western human rights was notified just before been on the Board of Trustees agencies focused on alleged Christmas that he was to re­since 1980. mistreatment of Haitians ceive the award, which will be A parishioner of St. Monica's working under slavelike condi­presented at a ceremony on Church in Mishawaka, Juday tions on state-run sugar cane April 26 in Indianapolis, with has been president of the plantations in the Dominican Cardinal Bernardin of the parish council and has been an Republic. The hispanic nation Archdiocese of Chicago presid­usher for 43 years, though he shares the Caribbean island of ing. was quick to add, "There's one Hispanola with Haiti, a former "I was very surprised, and I guy that has more seniority French slave colony that is the was very humble. I still can't than me." hemisphere's poorest country. believe it, and I'd like to know This is not the first major 
After the coup, however, at­who's responsible," Juday said award Juday has received for tention shifted to the plight of of receiving the award. his service. In 1985, Governor Haitian boat people seeking Though Juday has been in­Robert Orr granted Juday with asylum in the United States and volved in a wide variety of Indiana's highest civilian to human rights abuse in Haiti Church organizations, he has award, and a similar award itself. The United States inter­been most active with the was bestowed upon him by cepted some 15,000 Haitians Knights of Columbus, which he Kentucky Governor Martha aboard the boats. housed them joined 45 years ago. Juday is a Lane Collins in 1986. at Guantanamo Bay naval base fourth degree knight and has Juday was nominated for on Cuba and shipped them 
held almost every leadership this award a year and a half back. 
position in the Mishawaka ago, when he received a call
Scouts' honor

Three times that number or 
Knights of Columbus Council asking him if he were to receive more are estimated to have Holy Cross Hall resident Erin Wachter helps eight year old Chastity and served as financial secre­this award would he accept it. crossed the border into the Quinn, a member of local Brownie Troop 49, with her merit badge tary for the Notre Dame Coun­
see JUDAY/page 4 cil. Juday also held state officeDominican Republic. "Working Science Magic." 



Bush rules out U.S. participation in global pollution-control targets 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­the upper hand on the environ­whether it would be a wise po­Bush was trying to undermine dent Bush made it virtually cer­ment as a campaign issue. litical move for him to go to the the upcoming conference. tain Tuesday that the United White House aides said there Rio conference and are trying to "It's a kick in the knees to ev­States will fight attempts to is a good chance Bush himself develop U.S. positions to elevate ery other nation seriously impose pollution-control targets may attend the Rio de Janiero his leadership in the face of committed to the success (of the at an international conference conference, which takes place certain hits he will take from conference). The negotiations in June. June 1-12. European countries pushing for are threatened with failure and, 
Bush said he eagerly awaits a Bush, in a photo session later, specific timetables on global if it happens, George Bush will treaty on global warming from said he wants to go but has to warming. be held accountable," said the U.N. "Earth Summit" but weigh his political schedule and Many European countries Gore. reiterated that any commit­presidential duties to see if the have argued that global warm­ments to reducing carbon diox­logistics are feasible. ing cannot be controlled unless The administration has op­ide emissions must "fit each Asked whether Democrat Bill industrial nations commit posed any emission-control plan nation's particular circum­Clinton's environmental prob­themselves to specific reduc­that focuses on carbon dioxide, stances" and focus on all con­lems in his home state of tions in releases of carbon which is produced from the tributors to global warming. Arkansas make the environ­dioxide, a principal contributor burning of fossil fuels. Officials 
His statement accompanying ment a more prominent cam­to warming. argue that such reductions the administration's annual re­paign issue, Bush said it "will Sen. AI Gore, D-Tenn. and a could be too costly and could port on the environment, came be a big issue regardless of leading critic of the administra­see BUSH/page 4 as the president tried to gain who's running. It's a very im-tion on global warming, said 



---~-------­

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
enior offers some new thoughts 

Warning: This article 
contains a collaboration of loosely deranged thoughts by the author, which has been shown to cause confusion and anger among Pat Buchananites and cancer 


in some Jab animals. This  ANTHONY KING  
editorial has been edited  Sports Writer  
for television viewing.  

•First of all I would personally like to congratulate Jerry Brown on his Connecticut victory over Billy "Don't mess with my wife" Clinton. I can't believe I actually am rooting for Brown, but, heaven help us, who else is there? 
There's front-running and draft-dodging Bill Clinton. He vows to fight back though, countering Brown's '1-800' campaign fund with his new Gennifer Flowers '1-900' party and donation line. Also, my condolences to Paul Tsongas for dropping out because "wabbit season" was wapidly appwoaching. 
Pat Buchanan, well, he scares me 
As for our esteemed leader Mr. Bush, I've had enough of "hurl first-ask questions later" foreign policy. 
•I thought I might offer my expertise to the ever-efficient administration on helping select a graduation speaker. I've decided on the following: 
The Dalai Lama-"The long flowing robes, the grace, bald ... striking," was the way Bill Murray immortalized the Tibetian leader in the classic Caddyshack. The Nobel prize winning Lama may not wow you with his speech (Goonga-galoonga). but his aura and his big­hitting golf game are enough to impress anyone. 
Ed McMahon-I mention Ed for everything else, so why the heck not. He can't be much worse than last year's speaker. 
•In the spirit of Jerry Brown and the grass roots movement. I will finish this article with a few ideas that have been given to me by non­Observerites for inside column topics. 
First of all. in the spirit of politics, I have to address the band lobby that has pushed for air time. As a sports writer. it's true that I did write for the football and basketball games, at which the band was present. In all my articles, I never mentioned how well the band played. So, to give the reader COMPLETE COVERAGE, let me tell you that the band was damn good. 
The most input I get is for an investigative inquiry into dining hall recipes. Sorry, but I don't have the stomach to find out. I treat it like I do hot dogs. I don't know what's in hot dogs, and I don't ask. The big difference occurs in the fact that you won't see me at the ball game with a brew and meatless baked ziti. 
Another topic was whether Norm is drinking real beer or O'Doul's during Cheers episodes. Now there's some investigative reporting I can handle. So if anyone has any more ideas, send them to the Cheers set. and I'll get back to you between beers. 
The views expressed in the inside column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Production 
Julie Barrett Cheryl Moser Becky Barnes Rene Ferran 
Sports Systems 
Jenny Marten Fritz Valsaint 
Accent VIewpoint 
Jennifer Guerin Guy Loranger Fran Moyer Jason Thomas Pat Moran Matt Helminiak 
Business Lab Tech 
Pancho Lozano Jake Peters Andy Runkle 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, March 26, 1992 
Cloudy with a 60 percent chance of rain this aftrnoon, highs in the mid 40s. Tonight , 30 percent chance of snow, low in the upper 20s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City 
Ancho1age 
Atlanta Bogota Boston CaiTo Cha~one, N.C. Chicago 
·.:: 
Clevleand 
Dallas 
·:=: 
Denver 
Havana 
Indianapolis Jerusalem Kiev Las Vegas London Lima Minneapolis Moscow 
:::: 
Nashville 
New Yolk

~p~~-~-9-----------------------~----~-----~--. -: 
H L ~ ~[]]] EZ]!ZZI~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
.::·:·:·:·:· 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
"Last Soviet" returns to earth 

• ARKALYK,Kazakhstan -A cosmonaut floated down to a snowy plain Wednesday after spending 10 months in space while his country disintegrated, changed its leaders and flag, and even renamed his hometown. Sergei Krikalev and fellow Russian Alexander Volkov, who joined him aboard the Mir space station in October, were the Soviet Union's last cosmonauts. Their replacements aboard the orbiting Mir now represent Russia. 
Peacful world causes economic loss 
• PANAMA CITY, Panama -To the glee of na­tionalists, the U.S. military is packing up under terms of the Panama Canal treaties. Yet some Panamanians, afraid of the economic impact, are having second thoughts. Thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars in business could be lost by the end of 1999, when all 10,000 troops are to be out. Some Panamani­ans are calling for the treaties to be renegotiated to maintain at least some U.S. presence. The pullout from Panama, about 10 percent completed today, is another example of locals losing their Cold War dividend in a more peaceful world. 
OF INTEREST 

•People Auction to benefit the Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Scholarship Funds will be held tonight at 7 
p.m. at Theodore's. 

•The 
Student Alumni Relation Group (SARG) will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater, LaFortune, to discuss upcoming events and elections. 

•Applications 
For Judicial Council Assistants can be picked up in the Student Government Office and are due by Friday. March 27. 


MARKET UPDATE 


·-: 
Paris 

¥" ~ ~ 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
.t:::r:. 
NATIONAL 

Shuttle beams film to earth 
• SPACE STATION, Houston -Atlantis' astronauts beamed back to Earth Wednesday images of vibrating streamers of light from an aurora and filmed the glowing charged particles the space shuttle leaves in its wake. The shuttle and its seven-member crew blasted off Tuesday from Cape Canaveral, Fla.• on an eight-day mission to study the earth's fragile ozone layer and other aspects of the atmosphere. The tO-minute black­and-white video of the aurora showed the irregular strands of light that appear in polar regions when charged particles from solar magnetic storms collide with particles in Earth's upper atmosphere. 
CAMPUS 

Road closings announced 
• 
NOTRE DA~E -Notre Dame Security has been notified by contractors completing the storm sewer installation for St. Joseph County that portions of the intersection of Juniper and Douglas Roads will be tem­porarily closed during daytime hours sometime be­tween today and April 19, according to Phil Johnson, assistant security director. The work will take place in four phases ad detour routes will be marked by the contractor: Juniper Road south of Douglas Road and north of East Gate (detour route for access to campus will be Ivy Road to Bulla Road); Juniper north of Douglas (detour route will be Pendle Street to U.S. 33 to Douglas to Juniper); Douglas Road east of Juniper (detour route will be Ivy Road to Bulla Road to Ju­niper); Douglas west of Juniper and east of the Notre Dame Credit Union (detour will be U.S. 33 to Angela Boulevard to Juniper Road). 

•The 
Catholic Worker House will sponsor a hospi­tality luncheon today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. 

•The 
Philippine Club Lecture with Father Warner will be held tonight at 6 p.m. in Siegfried Hall. 

•Anyone 
interested in serving dinner at the Hope Rescue Mission tonight, meet at the Center for Social Concerns at 6 p.m. Drivers are needed. All welcome. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1909: Russian troops invaded Persia to support Muilammad Ali as shah in place of constitutional 
.... 
government. 

• 
In 1910: Congress passed an amendment to the 1907 Immigration Act, barring criminals, paupers, anarchists and carriers of disease from settling in the U.S. 

• 
In 1979: Egypt and Israel signed a formal treaty, ending 30 years of war. 

• 
In 1981: Carol Burnett won $1.6 million in a libel lawsuit against The National Enquirer, which printed a gossip column depicting her as intoxicated at an encounter with Henry Kissinger. 

• 
In 1991 : The Bush administration indicated it would not aid rebels seeking to overthrow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. 


H L 
38 30 67 44 66 41 47 38 
66 48 60 42 45 24 
49 28 
75 z51 58 35 84 64 
54 33 69 47 550 36 
74 48 42 31 84 72 
36 18 42 30 64 41 39 42 45 35 
50 40 65 51 
44 28 

------~~-----~--------~-­
--------------------------------, 
Thursday, March 26, 1992 The Observer 
page 3 

Lecture discussess methods for helping victims of rape on the road to recovery 
SAN JUAN. Puerto (t\P) By JENNIFER HABRYCH Most times, the responses to actually end up hurting some­
-Cultural barriers tO ft:anker, News Writer rape get into the blame cate­one you love," Franco added. fairer relations between the gory when that is the last thing There are many forms of 
sexes are frustrating efforts to stem the worldwide spr~ad AIDS and other sexua transmitted diseases women, experts say. 
Too often, women have little or no say in whether their partners sleep with others or wear condoms to protect against such diseases. women physicians, social scientists and activists said during a conference on the problem~ ir(. 
The experts from 17 eoun~ :Mwer tries concluded a four'"day rrft)l!J.ttet-s. meeting last Thursday b37 rec-!t)?:~y sfl.id, ommending a more int~~ated :1 :cliirin* approach to treating AlOS, Aj;w~a:rip:g sexually transmitted diseases ;infecting and reproductive tract infec-other tions. "EW tiiF 
They also appealed for addi­tional funding for women's d health care programs, urged ;:!1 the development of effective ful vaginal microbicides and inex­pensive test kits for infections and called for access tolegal iS abortions. -..;.i;i••-;.•-· --. 
But above all, they agree that the programs must be ac-
SPRING SPECIAL 
Haircut-$& 
VARSITY SHOP 
52580 U.S. 31 North 2 miles no. of campus 277-8057 
Expires 3/31/92 

they need, Donley said. It hap­support: emotional, encour­
Identifying appropriate ways pens even when we have the agement, advice (in the form of to respond to the vic­best intentions, we all need to information giving, but not tim/survivor immediately after learn to be sensitive, she con­telling a victim what to do, a rape occurs and long after the tinued. 
companionship and tangible
incident took place was the Franco explained that we aid. When a person getssubject of the lecture need to understand our own locked into giving only emo­"Concerned Others: How to feelings in dealing with the sur­tional support that is where the Support a Rape Survivor" vivor/victim. Often times people trouble begins, Franco ex­Wednesday evening. fail to take into account the plained."If someone comes to you, we feelings of the secondary victim, "It may appear that you are want you to have a sense of he said. 
giving emotional support, but what is going on," said Rita "By being here today, you are really you are hurting someone Donley of University Counseling insulating yourself, so that you more," Franco said. Center (UCC). can help a primary victim more Donley stressed that you must 
Donley stated that dealing if a situation ever arises," support the options the with rape is a process and it Franco said. 
victim/survivor wants, but there 
takes time, and that it is impor­One of the problems that are many organizations that tant to let the person determine often arises when someone is can help either you, the vic­the timetable for revealing and helping someone deal with rape tim/survivor, or both. She of­coping with the situation. is that they become so involved fered Campus Alliance for Rape
"We have to be willing to live that sometimes they focus on Elimination (CARE), Sex Offense with our discomfort with the their own feeling and not those Services (SOS), and UCC as situation," Donley said. "We of the primary victim, Franco examples. 
may want her to do something, stated. but it is up to her to make deci­
"The victim almost has to "You don't have to be alone in 
sions about what, if anything to count on empathy, if the degree getting help for the person. youdo. We need to listen. ask (of emotion) gets so intense that can get support for yourself,"questions, and see what they it shifts to sympathy, it can Donley said. need or feel." actually become an Achilles' 
Micky Franco, UCC, stated heal," Franco said. "They The lecture, sponsored bythat "rape is not about sex, it is become more concerned about CARE, SOS, ND Student Gov­a violent crime. The victim their wounds than those of the ernment, ND SafeWalk, SMC 
loses their sense of control, and victim. You forget who really Residence Life, ND Counsellingit takes a long time to recover got hurt." Center, and the Graduate Stu­and feel like life is safe. That is "If you don't address the de­dent's Women's Resource why it is important that they gree to which you are the sec­Committee, was part of Sexual make the decisions." ondary victim, then you may Assault Awareness Week. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days ~'SY 0 ~ttA 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219)277-1291

51400 31 North South IN 46637 Phone answered 24 hrs. 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 
Thank you! 
Graduate Student Union Officer Elections 
Elections will be held for the positions of President and Executive Vice-President of the Graduate Student Union for the 1992-93 academic year. 
All graduate student are eligible. 
Deadline for submission of application: March 30 
Public Forum with the Candidates: March 31 7:00PM Library Lounge 
Elections: April 2 
Letters of application should include names, phone numbers, and on-campus addresses of both candidates on the ticket, and should be sent to: 
Elections Committee Graduate Student Union 220 LaFortune 
The following appointed positions will also be open: 
Vice-President for Administration Secretary Social Officer 


Infonnati.on Officer 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637
Send letters of application for these positions to the same address. 

(219) 272-4135 
All of the above positions, both elected and appointed, are paid. H you have any questions, stop by the GSU office, or call239-6963. 


------~-~-~---~·~ -----~------------, 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, March 23, 1992 
Drug used to treat breast cancer found to protect bones, heart 
BOSTON (APl -A drug England Journal of Medicine cent over two to five years," Love said this should result in women, will see if the drug pre­widely used to prevent breast suggests that this treatment said Dr. Richard R. Love, who a 25 percent to 30 percent re­vents first-time breast cancer, cancer also appears to protect may carry an important side directed the study. duction in heart disease. heart attacks and broken women from broken bones and benefit. His study, conducted on 140 The major drawback of ta­bones. heart attacks. new research has Doctors from the University of women. is the latest in a series moxifen is side effects similar to These will be women consid­found. Wisconsin found that when of recent studies that show menopause. Women often ered at high risk of breast 
The drug, an estrogen­women took the medicine after multiple benefits of tamoxifen experience unpleasant hot cancer because of such factors blocker called tamoxifen, has breast cancer, the strength of treatment. flashes, racing pulse and as having close relatives with been given since the 1970s to their bones increased by about Last year, Love published a sweaty palms. breast cancer, having had be­women treated for breast half of 1 percent a year. In an study showing a dramatic effect nign breast lumps removed or cancer. It helps prevent recur­untreated comparison group, on cholesterol. He found that A major new study is planned having had no children. rence of existing cancer or the bone density fell by 1 percent a women taking the drug had that will examine whether Tamoxifen is made by ICI development of new cancer and year. about a 12 percent drop in their healthy women who are at high Pharma, which financed the is often given for five to 10 "Tamoxifen ought to be as­total cholesterol levels. Their risk of breast cancer should latest study with the American years. sociated with a reduction of LDL, the so-called bad take tamoxifen. The research, Cancer Society and the National 
A study in Thursday's New fracture risk of about 30 per-cholesterol, fell 20 percent. to be conducted on 16,000 Cancer Institute. 
committee's decision stand by a hall to do this for him and he president, did not believe Calla­close vote of 8-6. approved the two posters. After han should be punished so
Senate Juday
The legislative body then he left the dorm that evening severely for violations when heard the committee's decision and in his absence, this friend Farmer was not. 
continued from page 1 
to forfeit Keenan sophomore put up the slanderous poster "The rules Tim broke were continued from page 1 campaign. Tim Callahan's election due to against Nicgorski. less effective to voters than Nicole Farmer, Multicultural campaigning violations and Later that evening his room­Tyler's,"' he said. 
Then an extensive study of Ju­Executive Council member and unethical behavior. The viola­mate called him about it, and Other members said that 
day's involvement was con­
Farmer's sister. said Farmer tions were: Callahan's first question was Callahan's was an ethical viola­ducted and the nomination had had not intended to do anything •Callahan's having unautho­"Are they down?" The posters tion while Farmer's was only a to be approved at numerouswrong. rized posters in Keenan, Ca­were only up in Keenan for a rule violation. 
levels including Bishop D'Arcy, "He saw a system that wasn't vanaugh and Farley; half hour, according to his The senate voted to overturn 
the Archdiocese, Cardinal
working. lie is an eager fresh­•Members of the campaign roommate. Callahan's forfeiture 8-5. 
Bernardin, and finally the Vati­man. He went after a protest created handwritten posters; "If I had known about this, I The legislative body then had votH and won," she said. •A member of the committee would have taken action imme­to decide if there should be an­can. 
Juday worked for UniroyalHeindl added, "If we don't like defamed a poster of opponent diately," Callahan said. "I can­other election or if they should for 40 years before retiring inthe rules that we play by, then AI Nicgorski; not be responsible for every abide by the original results of 

1976. lie played golf con­
we should change them, but not •Callahan spread rumors person. I could not sit there and the North quad election in 
stantly for two years before
here, not now." about Nicgorski saying he had hold his hand." which Callahan won with a 55 
Dave Fiorenza, student body taking a job at the library,
overspent on the campaign. In response to the accusation percent majority. 
though he insisted that he
vice-president, agreed with Callahan defended his ac­about spreading rumors, Calla­"I would recommend abiding would be able to take off asHeindl saying "It is this senate tions, saying that his rector had han explained he was con­by the original results and giv­much time as necessary for alland its bylaws that are respon­recommended putting up the cerned that Nicgorski had vio­ing Tim the office," Cathcart of his charitable activities. Ju­sible for this problem. A serious handwritten posters saying lated the campaign budget. He said. 
day describes his job as "in
review of election rules needs "Support Keenan" and "Keenan said he discussed the problem charge of all keys for Univer­to take place." Pride"on the evening before the with two friends in Breen The senate agreed voting 9-4. 
runoff. · sity libraries ... Even Fr. Malloy
The senatH moved to close the Phillips in privacy. Callahan was punished by hav­has to come to me for a key.
discussion and voted to let the He asked a friend down the Dave Cathcart, junior class ing to write a letter of apology. 
For him, I'll deliver." 
ics of climate change," Bush chlorofluorocarbon releases. tries commit themselves to spe­instead of specific timetables, said in the message accompany­The administration has ar­cific carbon dioxide reductions. said Michael Deland, chairman
Bush 
ing the annual report of the gued that each country should Most European countries have of Bush's Council on Environ­White House Council on Envi­be left to deal with global pushed for firm commitments mental Quality. 
continued from page 1 
ronmental Quality. warming in ways that suit it that would stabilize carbon "The more responsible people Carbon dioxide, which comes best. For example, Brazil could dioxide releases by the turn of in the European community and primarily from the burning of focus on protecting its tropical the century. elsewhere recognize that the 
cause widespread economic oil, coal and natural gas, ac­forests, which absorb carbon The Bush administration common sense approach is
harm. 
counts for more than half of all dioxide. hopes meetings before the Rio more comprehensive," he said"An exclusive focus on targets global warming emissions. But environmentalists have conference will develop a con­in a telephone interview. 
and timetables for carbon 
Others include methane from argued that no attempt to sensus among developing coun­
dioxide emissions is inadequate the decomposition of organic combat global warming will tries and others to back the U.S. Deland also criticized Japan,to address the complex dynam­matter and other sources, and succeed unless industrial coun-comprehensive approach for setting what he called unre-
American Heart Association 0

• ·s 
r'\n_.....,••--------------------···.. ~ ......
4,~~-•-~
•c<-.,ut.';f Heartland Texas Bar-B-Que and Dance Hall '~ BOOKSTORE
t.l Presents 1J 
1HE MARSHALL nJCKER BAND ; Live in Concert I
7 1 BASKETBALL
1 ThUBday, Apri12, 1992 l 
!J Tlcitta manilable f<r just $10.00, on~ It Heartland (; 
(' •PPJ!IN'*tt8tltt•@Utll'!~l1•!iill:!@•• 9 
(\ F<rlblt's in st<re t awhole lot more...219-234-5200 /0
Ob'..:' --~\). 
,.,,,,.."~~, ,,_. •w.•n 

C'IAn
lli!u-flr'E>_QMI) 
""'JNT MAKY"S COIJ..EGP: 
FRIDAY, APRIL 3 

8 P.M. 
TICKETS $7/$6 
SAINT MARY'S 
COMMUNITY $3 
FLUTIST

MEGAN Sign-ups:
MEISENBACH 

MARY %urs., Marcfi 26 6-9 p.m. GOLDEN HARPIST 
Sorin 1\pom La1'ortune 
Dance & More... Thurs., Sat., Sun, April 9, 11, 12 
Choreography by Hollis Johnson, lndl Dleckgrafe and 

Lobby of :J{aggar {S:ArfC)
Julia Mayer McCarthy Tickets $6/$5 Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box ofjice, located in Olaughlin Auditonum,Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Information: 2191284-4626 

f'ee: 5.00 er team ??...carr X1093 


Thursday, March 26, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Former Idaho congressman,aide indicted in check-kiting scheme 
BOISE, Idaho (AP) -A former congressman and a leader of the state Republican Party are accused in a federal indictment unsealed Tuesday of defrauding banks with a mul­timillion-dollar check-kiting scheme. 
A federal grand jury returned the 49-count indictment March 11 against former Rep. George Hansen, R-Idaho, and John Scoresby, eastern Idaho chair­man of the Republican Party. 
Hansen pleaded innocent Tuesday before U.S. Magistrate Mikel Williams. He faces triaL May 5. Scoresby, a former Hansen aide, had his arraign­ment continued until March 31 because he couldn't get a lawyer. 
Each count carries a maxi­mum 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine. 
·Prosecutors say Hansen so­licited loans from banks by promising to pay 5 percent to 10 percent interest per month. He allegedly told investors the money would be used on "projects" of his business, Ideal Consultants. 
The indictment says Scoresby knew that the loan checks would go primarily to pay back earlier investors. 
The state Department of Fi­nance won a civil judgment against Hansen and Scoresby in 
If You Blink, You'll Miss The Big NeXT™ Sale. 

February 1991 after accusing them of illegally collecting $18 million from nearly 200 in­vestors across the nation from 1985 through 1990. 
Hansen and Scoresby admit­ted violating Idaho laws by is­suing securities without appro­priate licenses and failing to tell investors that previous in­vestments were being repaid with money from new investors. 
Hansen, who served seven terms in Congress, spent more than a year in a federal prison camp after being convicted in 1984 on four felony counts of submitting false financial dis­closure reports to Congress. 
Nearly 40% saving before March 31! 
Admittedly. we're not giving you a lot of time. On the oth­er hand. we're giving you one of the most extraordinary deals you'll ever see: 
Purchase a NeXTstatlon™ Color computer. with 17-or 21­lnch Color Display and 400 dpl NeXT™ Laser Printer by March 31st. and get nearly 40% off the list price. 
Of course. even•at full price. the NeXTstatlon Color com­puter offers more than any other machine In Its class; 16-bit color. 15 MIPS. standard UNIX™, 16MB of RAM, CD-quallty sound. vast storage, true multitasking and the Industry's only true object oriented system software. 
With over 30 bundled applications, Including Mathemati­carM, It's perfect for statistical analysis. In depth report writing. mathematics or any use that demands true-to-life­color. And with hundreds of off-the-shelf applications to choose from. like WordPerfert™. Lotus™ Improv™ and Soft­PC™, it's a perfect productivity machine as well. 
·· Visit the Notre Dame Computer Resale Center! 
0/992 NeXT" Compu~er, Inc. All righi! rrtUtwd NJT, the NJI' lop aNi NdT$1tJ1iotJ 1111! ll'rldDna!i.J ofNJT' Compuln; !ffC. 
UNTX ira rrgi.Jitred lT'fJikmari ofUNIX Systmu lAbL Mrullemtuicll i.tarqu.nrJ lrrllkmario{Mblfram Rt!uardL 

AU odtn-lnJtkmtuir mentiorted bdong to tlwir rerpw:tiw OWMt:l. TM 


Magazine claims Demjanjuk not real "Ivan the Terrible" 
FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) -A Jewish publisher claimed Tuesday that an Israeli court relied on false evidence to sen­tence John Demjanjuk to death for being the notorious "Ivan the Terrible" concentration camp guard. 
The charges by Abraham Melzer, whose Semittimes magazine often criticizes Israel, are among the latest to ques­tion whether Demjanjuk was actually the guard at the Tre­blinka concentration camp in Poland. 
A photo used to identify Demjanjuk as "Ivan the Terri­ble" was falsified, Melzer claimed. 

The Ukrainian-born Demjan­juk, who emigrated to the United States after World War II and became a U.S. citizen, was extradited to Israel in 1986 and convicted two years later. 
Prosecutors said Demjanjuk spent 1942-43 at Treblinka, where an esti~ated 900,000 Jews lost their lives. 
Demjanjuk, 71, a retired auto worker from Cleveland, has re­peatedly denied ever having been at Treblinka and appealed the conviction. 
Doubts about his identity also are being debated in Israel. 
Evidence obtained from former Ukrainian concentration camp guards suggests another man, Ivan Marchenko, is the real "Ivan the Terrible." Marchenko apparently disap­peared after the war. 
To back up Melzer's claims, graphics expert Dieter Lehner showed reporters enlarged copies of a photograph of Demjanjuk which he said was crudely altered to show him wearing what appears to be an SS guard's uniform. 
~tl ESJ)~ ~~ ~
.

i Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Sunday, March 29 
10:00 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Richard Wilkinson, C.S.C. 

Sponsored by Campus Ministry Office of Minority Affairs 
(?MPUSMINISTRY 


page6 The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1992 
Football coach draws boos for making anti-gay remarks 
BOULDEH. Colo. (AP) -A 
University of Colorado coach 
who became a hnro for turning 
around a losing football team is 
getting jem·ed for using his title 
and popularity to preach 
evangelical Christian views 
against homosexuality. 
Bill McCartney's remarks and 
the resulting outrage have 
placed university President 
.Judith Albino in a quandary. 
Do McCartney's rights to free 
speech end when he uses his ti­
tln as a football coach at a 
public university to espouse his 
views'? Should he be muzzled 
for criticizing a lifestyle while 
wnaring his coach's sweater'? 
Many students say yes. 
"This university must keep this man in line!" said senior Samantha Levine. "lie has dnmonstratPd time and time again that he mwds to be kept on a leash. lin is using his posi­tion to creatn an atmosphere of hate and fear on this campus." 
McCartney, 51, revived a moribund Colorado football program in I982 and led thn team to the national champi­onship in 1990. Outside work, he said, he ftH~Is mandated to take a stand on homosexuality. 
"I may be just a football coach, but I'm not going to stand aside on the tough issues facing society," he said. 
McCartney first voiced anti­gay bnliefs in support of a group called Colorado for Family Values, which is collect­ing signatures to put an initia­tive on the November ballot to ban special legislation protect­ing homosexuals. 
The coach is a member of the group's advisory board, and his name appears -with his title -on its pamphlets. A former Homan Catholic, McCartney joined the Vineyard Christian Fellowship in Longmont, a fun­damentalist, non-denomina­tional church, in 1989. 
Albino reprimanded him last 
month for violating university 
policy by using his position to 
support a personal cause. 
After a long meeting with 
Albino, McCartney said he 
would "be more careful about 
where that title goes." But he 
said he wouldn't back off of his 
views. 
"I personally share the values 
held by Colorado for Family 
Values.... They are saying that 
a lifestyle does not entitle you to 
certain rights, and I agree with 
that," he said. 
At a news conference, McCartney called homosexuals "a group of people who don't reproduce, yet want to be com­pared with people who do re­produce." Citing the Bible, he said his "personal feeling is that there is sin involved here." llomosexuals, he said. "burn with lust." 
Hegents, faculty members and others were outraged. Rep. Pat Schroeder, D-Colo., accused McCartney of "hate-mongering" and dubbed him a "self­anointed ayatollah." Students staged a campus protest. 
Christof Kheim, a Student Union co-executive, said the student government was "absolutely disgusted" by McCartney's comments. 
Not even football players have spoken up in support of the coach. McCartney said his mail has been "95 percent to 98 percent supportive, but the edi­torials are 90 percent against." 
Some have called for McCartney's ouster, although it would be costly for the univer­sity to buy out his 1990 con­tract. He signed a 15-year deal that pays $130,000 a year in salary, plus annual increases; $100,000 a year in deferred compensation; and a guaran­teed $130,000 annually for ra­dio and TV appearances. 

Lightly argues for gay rights 
By LYNN O'DONNELL 
News Writer 

The basis of politics cannot be 
a definition of our identity, 
voiced Michael Lighty, director 
of Democratic Socialists of 
America, in his lecture yester­
day titled "Queer Politics in the 
90's: the Struggle for Gay Rights 
in America." 

Lighty feels that politics ig­
nores the violence that many 
people of the gay community 
face in today's society. He 
stresses that in this country 
"gay bashing is acceptable and 
practiced without repercus­
sions." 

In order to eliminate the 
"legttimacy of discrimination," 
Lighty sees a need for social re­
form. 

According to him, successful social reform to protect the civil rights of the gay community calls for strong political backing. He said that organi­zations such as Queer Nation and the Gay Liberation Federa-. tion have used some radical tactics in the past, such as riot­ing and declaring that " .... in a free society everyone will be gay." 
Although Lighty does not nec­essarily agree with these tac­tics, he is "convinced that if elected officials would support the gay community, they would find that it helps rather than hinders the term in office." 
Lighty stresses the impor­tance of "coming out." Re­calling gay solidarity day when he was in college, he said, "Coming out in college is great, but it must continue in the real world." 

t 
Lighty believes that being queer should not be defined as "having sex with people of the same sex." He said that it is wrong to define gays and les-bians by sexual preference first, rather than gender or class. 

Michael Yore, a leader of the gay community on campus, familiarized Lighty with the sit­uation at ND/SMC. Yore ex­pressed frustration with the administration, saying "it's a monarch .... no democratic power exists here. Every time I attempt to gain recognition for our group the administration stonewall's waiting for activists to graduate, so nothing ever gets done." 
Currently, the gay community on campus is not recognized as an official student group and therefore is ineligible to receive funds from student government and advertise in campus publi­cations. 

Lighty advised disgruntled ac­tivists to continue requesting meetings, a mailbox, hotline and permission to hold discus­sion groups. He told them to work with the administration, but something that would be more effective "is a few gay football players." 


NEW BREAKFAST MENU 0eaM gJoUit <9wn <0nte&t gtuUeJ_ ~clt <doost ~e Qllavg OJ\d ce~ut~ 
• NEW HOURS -7:00 A.M. -2:30 P.M. 
CR~ -7:00 a.hL -fO:SO a.nt ~uttck -11 :00 a.m. -2:00 p.m. 

LIMITED TIME SPECIAL moo Cup o~ ·eoet,ee Wit~ Ut~ cpuJtC~~ C~ on~ ~t 8nW>.e 
GREENFIELDS CAFE 
LOCATED IN 'lliE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES FOR INFORMATION OR FP.SRRVATI0NS-CAlL 239-8S77 
cpaJtkittg v4:vaifubQe ll1 the CB·1 ~ot 
EAST OF THE HESBURGH CENTER 
(all For A Free 199!2 Student Travel catalog! 

A joint theological team's recommendations for "full communion" among four de­nominations that grew out of the 16th century Protestant Heformation points to a fresh way toward Christian unity. 
The approach calls for mu­tual acceptance of one another in worship, ministry and sacraments and sharing in those functions, but without merging organizational sys­tems. 
"What we have here is a much more viable direction for the future," said the Rev. Timothy Lull, a Lutheran the-
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
at 239-5303. 

Thank you! 
ologian of Berkeley, Calif., who co-chaired the Lutheran­Reformed team that produced the new report. 
Instead of "homogenized merger" into "some single generic family," he said Christians of different denomi­nations want "broad agree­ments about faith, ministry and working together much more closely." 
Lull, academic dean and pro­fessor of systematic theology at Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary, said the shifted ecu­menical thrust means "coming together in practical terms." 


Team wants church unity 
Thursday, March 26, 1992 The Observer 

1ne Observer/Pat McHugh 
Now showing at the CSC ... 
Photojournalist Steve Moriarty (left), presenting the slide show "Peace Breaks Out" yesterday at the Center for Social Concerns, shows this slide picturing the welcoming of rebel leaders at an airport in San Salvador. The presentation was sponsored by the World Peace Action Group. 
Kurds move their attack to city centers and abroad, many deaths as a result 
ISTANBUL, Turkey (AP) ­Kurdish separatists held violent protests in Germany, Britain and the Netherlands on Tues­day, and four people were killed and 28 wounded inside Turkey. 
It was the fourth straight day of deadly confrontation be­tween the Kurdish guerrillas and security forces in south­eastern Turkey. More than 50 people have died. 
Most of Turkey's 15 million Kurds live in the region and it is the center of the rebels' struggle for an independent state. But the violence lately has also spilled over outside the region and Turkey. 
In Istanbul, an army major and another man were killed when gunmen fired on a bus carrying employees of the Na­tional Intelligence Agency, the Anatolia news agency reported. Seven people were wounded. 
Dev Sol, a leftist underground group that works with the Kurdish guerrillas, claimed re­sponsibility. "We will break the hands that harm the Kurdish nation," one caller told the newspapers in Istanbul. 
The Kurdish Labor Party has been fighting for an indepen­dent state in southeastern Turkey since 1984. It timed its latest offensive to coincide with the springtime Kurdish holiday, in a demonstration of the sup­port it has among the Kurdish population. 
In other violence Tuesday, gunmen raked a police vehicle with automatic gunfire in Bat­man, in southeast Turkey, killing a policeman and wound­ing two others, Anatolia said. 

A bomb in Sanliurfa killed one person and wounded 19 others, an official said. 
A Turkish bank was fire­bombed in the city of Di­yarbakir, and about 150 sepa­ratists demonstrated there. 
Kurds abroad protested the military crackdown in several European cities. 
In London, police used trun­cheons to turn back more than 200 Kurdish demonstrators who tried to storm the Turkish embassy. A protester and a po­lice officer were seriously hurt and at least 10 people were ar­rested, Scotland Yard said. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Seniors are invited to 

The Senior Informal 
April 3, 1992 
7:00 p.m. · I2 Midnight 
A Polish wedding banquet will be served. 
Two great campus bands · DissFunktion and Jasmine Groove will provide dance music all night long 
The Cost: $22.00 a couple, $IS.OO single 
The Venue: St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Avenue at Scott Street 
nckets are available lrom the LaFortune ncket Desk and must be purchased by March 30th. 
Sponsored by the Oil-campus Coalition lor Quality ol Lile 
For further Information contact: 
Mike Richardson Z7Z-639% Jim Mahony Z89-773fl Tom McDermott Z39-7S.' 

·-~-~·-------------­
page 7 

Kuwaiti refugees face bleak future in Jordan 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP)-The flood of Palestinians who fled Kuwait or were thrown out be­cause the PLO supported Saddam Hussein in the gulf cri­sis are causing political and economic shock waves in this country. 
A year after the Gulf War 300,000 Palestinians -about three-fourths of Kuwait's pre­Gulf War Palestinian population -are straining the Hashemite kingdom's meager resources and tensions are rising. 
The dramatic influx also has altered the country's demo­graphic makeup. Jordan ab­sorbed the bulk of Palestinians displaced in the 1948 and 196 7 Arab-Israeli wars, and two thirds of its 3.5 million people are now of Palestinian origin. 
Jordan and the Palestine Liberation Organization sup­ported Saddam, and suffered the consequences -interna­tional isolation and the loss of vital financial aid from Saudi Arabia and other nations. 
Even before the gulf crisis began in August 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait, about 25 percent of Jordan's workforce, or 170,000, were unemployed. Given this situation, the Palestinian refugees have virtu­ally no prospect of fmding jobs. 
Young men and women pack employment offices looking for work that isn't there. The Labor Ministry recently set up a new employment office that has received 60,000 applications from Palestinian and Jordanian returnees. 
Sad old men sit in the cafes of downtown Amman because they have nowhere else to go. 
Many people are jammed in refugee camps around the capi­tal. Some people who fled Kuwait have simply set up tent communities because they can't afford rents in the capital. 
As living conditions for the newly arrived 'falestinians deteriorate, there are fears that tensions between Jordanians and Palestinians could swell. 
But few believe there will be a repeat of the 1970 war when King Hussein's Bedouin army moved against Palestinian guerrillas who were becoming a challenge to the monarchy. 
Thousands of people were killed before the Palestinians were defeated, and resentments linger to this day. 
Still, the situation today is different than it was in 1970, said Taber Masri, a member of Parliament who was prime minister for five months last year. 
"Those who've returned from Kuwait have a different out­look," said Masri, himself of Palestinian origin. "They want to settle down and lead a nor­mal life." 
But many people in Amman say that his tenure as premier was cut short partly because of native Jordanians' unhappiness at being swamped by Palestinians. 
Ismail Abdul Fatah, who left Kuwait with his wife and seven children a week after the Gulf War started, thought he'd be back in a few weeks. 
Now the 34-year-old Palestinian has given up hope of returning to a country where he lived virtually all his life. 
Abdul Fatah, a former re­searcher for the Kuwaiti gov­ernment, has taken a job at a small plastics factory, but he can't make ends meet on his monthly salary of $102. 
"We had a comfortable life in Kuwait and we were content," said his wife, Nemeh, in the shack in which the family lives on Amman's outskirts. "Now that's all gone." 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: 
Tuesdays or Thursdays No Experience Necessary 
To apply, contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 

Business 
page 8 Thursday, March 26, 1992 

By PANCHO LOZANO 
Business Writer 
Students looking for a quick late night snack now have a new option to turn to other than Burger King. 
As of March 20, the McDon­ald's located on Ironwood Road has introduced a new late night service on Friday and Saturday nights from midnight to 2 a.m. 
"We realized that there was a great market within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities and the best way to penetrate that market is to start a service oriented towards their specific needs," said R. G. 
Starmann,  an  assistant  
marketing  coordinator  for  
McDonald's.  He also said how  

"many students were looking for a quick bite to eat" after going out without having to "take the time to sit down and spend $6 or $7." 
As opposed to McDonald's, Burger King does not target their night service to students, but rather "primarily to outside people in the South Bend com­munity or anyone working late such as the third shift," stated Jerry Fitzpatrick, the vice pres­ident, director of operations at Burger King. 
For McDonald's, the late night service runs from midnight to 2 
a.m. with drive-thru service only. Their menu consists of the majority of sandwiches on their regular menu with the exception of Chicken McNuggets, Filet-o-Fish, and the Quarter Pounder. The spe­cial section of the late night service includes a wide selection of items from their breakfast menu including Hash Browns, Egg McMuffins, and other selectiOns. 
Burger King's late night ser­vice runs until 3 a.m. on Sunday through Thursday and until 4 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, also providing only drive-thru service. As opposed to McDonald's, their late night service is available at all locations and includes their 
entire menu. Burger King also 
offers a special Late Nite Snack 
which includes a large 
sandwich, and medium fries for 
$1.89. 
At the current time, for Mc­
Donald's the late night service 
is only out of the Ironwood lo­
cation since it is on a trial basis. 
"If it goes well," said Starmann, 
"we plan to expand to other 
locations." 
Starmann also stated that 
they are currently in the pro­
cess of researching taking 
credit such as Burger King 
does. 
Starmann believed that com­
petitors such as Burger King 
were a factor in implementing 
this service, but thought it was 
"more worth it" to develop a 
relationship with the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
In the case of Burger King, Fitzpatrick stated that "every food establishment open at the same time as us we consider competition, even the Martin's right next door." 
According to Starmann, the first day of late night service for McDonald's had good success for the first hour-and-a-half before slowing down. "Last weekend was not a good indicator of how we expect our business to do." said Starmann. "We hope to see 50 to 7 5 per­cent of our late night business coming from students." 
However, the slow service on the first night was probably due to a lack of advertising said Starmann. He believed that business should pick up as they increase their advertising. 
Fitzpatrick declined to say what percentage of their nightly income comes from students, but stated that "it's a decent amount." 
Future plans for McDonald's include possible sponsorship of AnTostal, and special deals stu­dents such as coupons. "We just want to see how the busi­ness goes now. Nothing is def­inite." stated Starmann. "but with the community, anything is possible." 

Forum considers Pacific trading 
By JOHN CONNORTON repeatedly emphasized particularly concerned with 
Business Writer Australia's firm commitment to Asian infringements on liberal trading policies and its "intellectual property," namely opposition to economic blatant piracy of computer
The recent visit by President discrimination in the form of software, trademarks, and Bush to Japan along with the any bloc, Asian or otherwise. patents. Through negotiations,Democratic and Republican Cung echoed these sentiments China, one of the main 
primaries have focused the in his address. As an official in perpetrators, recently agreed to United States' attention on the the U.S. Department of sign on agreement ending these growing importance of Commerce, Cung focused actions. international relations and primarily on the future of "We are also concerned with 
trade. United States-Asian trade. export control," Cung said. The 
In light of these events, the "The U.S. views trade with Persian Gulf War focused Notre Dame Council on Asia as being extremely attention on the Iraqi use of International Business important in that it creates imported goods for belligerentDevelopment (NDCIBD) jobs," Cung said. "Our main and illegal purposes. sponsored an open forum at goal is to promote free trade." "We are now encouraging
Hesburgh Center for Pacific Rim trade generated our trading partners to be alot International Studies to discuss $317 billion last year in the more careful in what the sell the future of trade relations in United States, an equivalent of and to whom," said Cung. the Pacific Rim. one-third of our total trade or In response to a question on 
The discussion panel $1300 for "every man, woman, Australia's view of Japan as a consisted of Kevin Gates, and child in the U.S.," Cung told market, Gates stated that "it is Consulate General of Australia, the audience. difficult to penetrate some Raphael Cung of the United Although he noted with markets." States Department of concern the continuing trade "The only solution is to Commerce, Office of the Pacific imbalance, Cung emphasized continue, continue, and Rim, and David Wang, an that imports from abroad make continue" through negotiations 
M.B.A. student at the University American industry more and pressure to open Japanese of Notre Dame. competitive and efficient. markets, said Gates. "It takes 
Gates opened the discussion "We must be wary of time, lots of pressure, and by emphasizing the importance politicians that stress change on the Japanese part to of Pacific Rim trade to his protectionism" as an answer to open market. The difference is native Australia. Faced with the U.S. trade problems, said Cung. in how one applies that growing exclusivity of the Although the United States pressure." European Economic Community generally attempts to open(EEC), he explained, Australia markets through diplomatic Cung, like Gates, emphasized turned its trade to the Asia. and give-and-take relations, that "then~ have to be changes "Now our trade very largely is there are other means, Cung on the U.S. side as well." He with the Pac-Rim," said Gates. noted. Section 301 of U.S. trade used the example of the United 
Australia aims to achieve Jaw, he explained, "forces the States hoping to export cars "close bilateral relations with Administration to retaliate with steering wheels on the side countries of the Pac-Rim," said against other countries that opposite of Japanese models as 
Gates. "We would like to foster keep their markets closed" evidence of the need for U.S. a liberal and multi-lateral despite long-time and serious change.trading system in the region." negotiations. 
Because of its treatment in "This tool has worked," said Instead of complaining, Cung the EEC, Gates noted that Cung, pointing to the opening of said, the United States should Australia is "opposed to Korea's beef markets to U.S. have been making changes and anything that smacks of imports. "exploring these markets ten exclusive trading blocs." He Currently, the United States is years ago." 
Reilly predicts stock market recovery 
By BEVIN KOVALIK pansions, according to Reilly. sharp recession, he said, then Business Writer "All economic changes are a sharp rebound. "Right now preceded by a market change, we are In a mild recession, 
Favorable fortune will come hut market changes don't nee• therefore, we will gradually upon the stock market in the essarily anticipate an economic experience a mild recovery," long run, according to Frank change," Reilly said. Because Reilly added. Reilly, a Notre Dame finance there have been more market Reilly said several other professor. He predicts the turns than economic turns, the prognosticators share his stock market will come down stock market sometimes gives opinion and predictions, but slightly as much as 300 points false signals, he explained. others are quite bullish and for a while. and then America For example, Reilly said, de­think the market will immedi­will begin to slowly recover spite the 1987 stock market ately go up. "Long-term, I'm from the recession. crash, the economy remained bullish because we will come 
"I'm not talking about a dive stable. out of the recession and 1993 in the market, but the stock The reverse of this also will have a good economy," market could experience a occurs when the stock market Reilly said, "but for the short­'correction' or an adjustment goes up and the economy term I'm a bear." 
of a matter of 5 to 10 percent,.., doesn't necessarily benefit. Reilly said. "We are coming Therefore, Reilly says this ad­Another Notre Dame finance out of this recession now," he justment in the market will not professor, Bill McDonald, 
said, "but itis a slow process mean a deeper recession. would not argue that the stock and the market will make a In a further prediction of the market will make an adjust­slow recovery." Dow Jones future, Reilly said, ment because it should be evi­
Historically, the stock market "I think between now and July dent in the prices. "I can't tell has always done a fairly good the market will experience a what the stock market is going job predicting the nation's eco­pullback, but a year from now to do, but if I could I would nomic future; the stock market the market will be higher." have all the money in the has predicted the last six ex-Back in 1981"82 there was a world," he said. 
Bush proposes numerous budget cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -When this blatantly political," Sen. Democrats in the House or Se­
President Bush swung his bud­Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., nate for their home districts, 
get axe at 68 projects he said said Tuesday. "I think it according to House officials 
were sheer wastes of money, it demeans the office." who spoke on condition of 
came down mostly on Demo­''I'm not going to sit by and anonymity. 
cratic heads. But some Republi­play dead," said Sen. Daniel Nine projects were sought by cans got whacked too, including Inouye, D-Hawaii, who saw five Republicans, 12 were pursued ·Senate Minority Leader Bob of his projects on the list. jointly by Republicans and Dole. White House spokeswoman Democrats and four were either 
Democrats claimed Bush was Judy Smith said the list had of benefit to no particular motivated by out-and-out par­nothing to do with partisan district or were initially of un­tisanship, and they said they politics. "The president's goal known sponsorship. would fight. But Republicans on was to cut wasteful government Bush said Friday that the 68 the hit list aren't likely to roll spending," she said Tuesday. projects he proposed eliminat­over in this election year either. Forty-three of the 68 projects ing, worth $3.6 billion, give 
"I can't recall a president, this Bush proposed killing last Fri­Americans "every right to be early in the election cycle, being day were sponsored by outraged and disgusted." 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 26, 1992 Page9 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...............•..•••• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor•..•.••••.•...•...Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ••....... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller .•.••••••...........•.•. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
- .•. ~OUI\Sc NV"OER.l1--.n, 60VT 'fll,lli / CLO~ED ••· (.OUR~E NIJM6St., \210 1 ANTH 2li lS CJ.O~ED  
£OS YTJVOA'l 3Ello1UOJ a  

Stranger in the night enlightens ROTC student 
The train wound through the living piece of history to learn involved in the transition out applicable today, such as
Michael Keltos 

darkness in the hours of the from. of an environment where following closely the advice of 
Guest Columnist 

morning just following mid­As we conversed, a few other Americans had to watch each experienced enlisted people, night. I made my way through Notre Dame students and curi­copter in this manner by drop­other's backs constantly to but some of it held a flavor of the dim aisles, surrounded by ous bystanders joined our ping eight thousand feet inside survive, to the quiet streets of the Vietnam War era that I the motionless bodies of sleep­little group. This veteran and I of thirty seconds, and had the average U.S. town. He did believe should stay in the past. ing passengers. I reached the had some experiences in walked away from it. not resent the protestors and He finally lay his head down lounge car; smoke crawled common, such as watching the At no point did I ever feel he "hippies" that became on his crossed arms and around in the air like a living refueling of fighter planes was trying to build himself common sights in America at began to snore, so I quietly thing, enclosing the scattered from the rear of a KC-13 5; into some kind of hero; rather, the time, but rather saw rose and left. I wished him souls who conversed, laughed, there is truly a magic in being this man was just telling us himself as fighting for their well in wherever life should drank, and otherwise enjoyed suspended in the sunlight about his job in Vietnam and right to protest. take him. I was left to wonder, the time that fate had given above the clouds, seven miles how he managed, by the grace Coming from a family with a as I watched the Midwest pass them together. up, and watching a fighter of God, to survive when so long tradition of military ser­by out my window, would I 
A man seated at one of the float out of nowhere until it is many others did not. vice, he saw duty to his someday have some wisdom to tables pinned me with his eyes close enough to wave to the His stories also involved the country as his only option; in pass on to a younger and motioned me over. He had pilot. lighter side of his time in that respect, he said, the generation besides stories of noticed the "Air Force ROTC" However, my own fun jaunts Southeast Asia. He had tales "hippies" had a lot more Notre Dame football and emblazoned on my wind­with the Air Force seemed from Saigon, the Philippines, freedom than he did, and in a Spring breaks? I hope so, but breaker, he told me as he in­frivolous compared to the Japan, and Korea. The best way he even envied them. at the same time I have no troduced himself. He was a sobering accounts I now lis­part about being in the mili­When asked about the desire to go through what this 1970 graduate of Air Force tened to. The pilot had eight tary, he asserted (and I agreed Vietnam War Memorial in pilot and every other Vietnam ROTC from a college in helicopters shot out from with him), was the opportunity Washington, D.C., he said that veteran had to experience. Arizona. What caught and under him, and he showed us to travel the world for free. If he refused to visit it; he had The entire Vietnam War is held my attention the most, the scars of enemy bullets in he was twenty-one again, he carried back the pieces of too confusing to me, but it is al­however, was his next his arms and hands. said, he would do it all over. many of the men whose names ways worth hearing more statement; he had spent two He told us of sitting on his The conversation moved were written on the wall to about; it is part of our heritage years in Vietnam flying flak jacket every time he flew away from war stories and bear looking at it. I did not as Americans whether we like ambulance helicopters. into a dangerous area; he told more towards his own press him on this issue, for it it or not. By studying the past 
The name "Vietnam" always of the fear he had to overcome thoughts and feelings during was obvious that he was we can gain insight into the holds a fascination for me; for every time he flew into enemy the war. We talked of the carrying a burden inside him future and perhaps be more all that people my age read or fire in order to rescue the POW/MIA issue; he did not that I had no right to intrude prepared for whatever trials see on TV or in the movies wounded men waiting to be doubt that there were men left upon. the future throws in our about the Vietnam war, we transported to medical help. behind, but at this point, he As the night wore on, he nation's path. were not there or even old The use of the "auto-rotation" said, they would never be able gave me advice to follow as a Micheal Keltos is a junior enough to remember what the landing technique was ex­to readjust to American new second lieutenant; most majoring in electrical times were like in America. plained to us; he had been society. of it was too blunt to print engineering and is in Air Here, speaking to me, was a forced to land a wounded heli-There was a great difficulty here. Much of it was Force ROTC. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student body is sold-out by poor timing of JACC concert planners 
Dear Editor:  16, is the night I will be flying  Joyce Arena while students  fake  and  sometimes  planners of these events to  
home for Easter Break. Did  were away on vacation. A few  overdone), it is entertainment  take into account the student  
As I was venturing over to  the organizers of this concert  weeks  ago,  the  World  and  entertainment  sells  body of Notre Dame when  
the Gate 10 ticket office in the  expect  me  to  skip  Easter  Wrestling Federation came  tickets.  planning the next major event,  
Joyce ACC yesterday to buy  Break just for one concert?  town, but unfortunately the  Wouldn't it be the logical de­ for their interest and ours.  
my ticket to the Steve Miller  While walking dejectedly  Notre Dame student body was  cision (and the popular one,  
concert, I recalled something  back to my dorm I realized  out of town, on Spring Break.  too) to hold such events while  Michael Molnar  
that greatly disappointed me:  that this was not the first time  Regardless of what one thinks  eight-thousand students are  Grace Hall  
the night of the concert, April  a big event was held at the  of wrestling, (yes we know its  around? I strongly urge the  March 23, 1992  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

REAUYr 
YW've 
f;4UeN BIGT!Mt 
FORatNTrJm 
J'UTE3lJ._.. 
YOU tXACT/.-Y 
!AJH&Rl3 ITHAP­
~NW-ATTHt 
!lOVeRI N/31AJ 
HAMPSHI~ 
/3t.I<S~! 

IQUITTH/3 N&XT MORNING, 
OF C0UR${;,8UT IT IUAS 5CAR.Y.' 
\ 

"Darling, eet bettuh down where eets wettuh unda da sea.' 
Sebastian (from the Little Mermaid) 
Listen to your aquarium. and submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

.------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint
Page 10 Thursday, March 26, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
~ddle regulars 
cent rearrangement that gave seated and queued customers to rangement) I chanced to see the bad and the downright of­tempts to fulfill their needs and birth to the trendy, European­get to a fancy condiment bar? what appeared to be two man­fensive. The bad are all those we can usually learn from these style cappuccino shop Allegro, This inconvenient arrangement agers, dressed in suits, proudly things that either fulfill an un­failures, the downright offen­is to us, the Huddle regulars, wasn't part of the cheaper store standing in front of a shiny worthy function, like suicide sive are not inevitable and we the final blow! Compared to the upstairs. We want service to brass cappuccino machine. machines or nuclear missiles, do not need to accept their ex­old, perhaps less trendy, sand­order! They looked as if they were or fail to fulfill an otherwise istence. (That is precisely why wich shop on the first floor of But the biggest travesty is the about to say, "cha-ching!" each worthwhile purpose, like a bro­they are so darned offensive.) the Huddle, Allegro is more ex­time it takes to get an order. time the cash register opened. ken faucet or (arguably) affir­In practice, Allegro represents pensive, less convenient, and Ten customers standing in each (At this moment I felt a mative action. And the list of the mother of all downright of­slower. others' ways, smacking each Naderesque need to voice the the bad is apparently endless. fensiveness. But we as con­
To begin with, the new ar­other in the face with book bags angry opinion of many more But worse still are those sumers have the ability to stand rangement in LaFortune and Observers, while one Huddle regulars.) things which in addition to be­up to this travesty to sandwich brought a price increase from glacially slow worker makes a How, in a national University ing bad, try to cover for their eaters and shout, "this will not $2.75 to $3.00 a sandwich. sandwich, and two others stand doing research at the pinnacle functional inadequacies with a stand!" Off campus students, Throwing free tomatoes and in her way preparing to throw of fields such as operations superficial artistic appearance. faculty members, and all other cheese on every sandwich by no in some chips and a pickle, is a management, can a simple When something's attempt at Huddle regulars of the means warrants a price hike of sure sign of inefficient opera­sandwich shop be so horribly surface trendiness is obviously University unite and demand a quarter. What about those tions. We want the easy jobs of messed up? We want the heads out of synch with its function, it justice. You have nothing to lose who want neither tomatoes nor these employees! of all these ignoramuses! becomes downright offensive. A but your ... cheese! cheese? We want our quarters! During the recent grand But apart from the rhetoric, toilet that does not flush is bad, 
And what about those who opening of Allegro's (during the Allegro analysis helps us but a brass-plated toilet that Joe Blshara want mustard and don't want to which the specials were still make a broader observation by does not flush is downright of­Off-Campus have to crowd in between more expensive than the old ar-making the distinction between fensive. A lousy sandwich shop March 23, 1992 
Another rape victim comes Challenging one's faith is not destructive 
Dear Editor: In regard to the women at St. incompetence. Does he mean to 
This is in response to the ab­Mary's, C.F. Weiher attacked say the only "loyal surd letter C.F. Weiher had people and an event about Catholics" are the ones who 
forward to educate others 
Dear Editor: ties on our own campus -and I printed on St. Patrick's Day. which he knows absolutely will sit back like spineless, un­
After reading the stories of was raped by the much older 
Weiher says, "I resent Fr. nothing. To say that "the fact thinking wimps and blindly rape survivors in the March 23 brother of the person whose 
McDermott's unwarranted that these "beautiful women" obey every utterance handed 
edition of The Observer, I felt party it was. I was not drinking insinuations that because I am elect to attend an all-women's down by the white, male,compelled to tell my own tale. I -but the man was. 
a 'white, American, Roman college in which they make an Catholic hierarchy? A hierarchy am anxiously hopeful about the Allow me to make this point: Catholic, male, cleric' I am an all-women's retreat" is so they that has admitted it is a sexist increase in awareness of rape alcohol is never an excuse or oppressor." The insinuation was can be isolated and feel sorry institution and has refused to on this campus; anxious be­justification; we are all respon­not that C.F. Weiher is an for themselves is preposterous! do anything about it? A hierar­cause I cannot predict its effect sible for our own actions. 
oppressor. The fact is that the Rev. Weiher's sentiment is chy that has a history of cor­but hopeful because it repre­Again, I tried to fight back and social group in it's entirety is about as logical as all of us ruption and regretted deci­
sents a necessary lesson in my message was a defiant 
stereotypically oppressive. saying that men like Weiher run sions? 
reality for us all. "NO!" -but the right to my own To take this generalization as away to the priesthood because The church-hierarchy and all I have been enraged by the body was taken from me. I was a personal attack shows Weiher they are afraid of women and members-is a body throughflippant remarks and caustic furious as I tried to defend my­is egocentric and insecure. their own sexuality. which God works. It is not per­jokes I have heard across cam­self. loathing he who violated Whether he likes it or not, he is Mr. Weiher says that the fect, all-knowing or infallible, pus when the word "rape" is me and frustrated at my own part of that group. Weiher, and women who participated in the and therefore needs to be chal­mentioned. Perhaps people helplessness. 
all of us, would be better served St. Mary's retreat "want or­lenged and questioned.
joke because it is a difficult Rape by its nature is probably if he stopped crying over his dained women so they can have We have great respect fortopic, one with which they may the most traumatizing experi­unfair stereotype and tried to their church as they want it, Stallings, Fr. McDermott and not know how to deal properly -ence a woman can have. 
do something about it. without males." This is not only others who take initiative tobut if it's hard for them to deal Through counseling I have tried But is it an unfair stereotype sexist and paranoid, but it change something they believewith, can you imagine how to get in touch with who I was in Weiher's case? Based on the could be the most unintelligent is wrong. We have no respectpainful it is for the survivors? before being raped, but the statements in his article we statement of the year. for those too shallow and inse­r I have the misfortune of being truth of it is that person no would guess not. Weiher's ar­We are so astounded by the cure to question the state of the 
r 
a victim of both a violent rape longer exists. I have had an ticle was intended to shoot sentiments of this disturbed church because it may threatenand an acquaintance rape. integral part of my being taken down those Catholics who have man that we can only say one their false sense of superiorityWhen I was thirteen, I was from me without my consent. I 
the common sense and social thing: "Congratulations and over-importance in this
raped at knifepoint one after­still feel anger, I still feel 
~ 
conscience to question the logic Weiher!" (Ignorance is bliss; He world. 
r noon at my neighborhood pool. shame. It is something I will be of their church, namely Fr. must be a very happy man.) It Socrates once said, "An unex­I remember being excited by haunted by forever. 
McDermott, the women at St. would be more true to say that amined life is not worth living." 
the fact that I was finally old If I were to judge the world as 
Mary's who participated in a Weiher would like to see a We think he'd agree that an
enough to relax at the pool I have been treated by it, I recent retreat, and Fr. Stallings. church without women, espe­unexamined faith is not worthwithout adult supervision. would likely be a sullen, sarcas­Weiher says Fr. McDermott's cially if women could attain having.
Well, that enjoyment didn't last tic and pessimistic person. I letter is an attempted "guilt equal status and-God We encourage everyone wholong. have tried not to succumb to trip" on the "loyal Catholic." Fr. forbid-Weiher would have to shares Weiher's views to thinkTwo men (they were men to this because although I can McDermott merely expressed show women respect. about what they believe. 
me being only thirteen, but they never regain what I have lost, an honest concern for the way Weiher says Stallings broke Question, study the facts and 
were actually neighborhood the journey to recovery has some Bible teachings affect his promise of loyalty to the pray. If what you believe is
bullies of perhaps eighteen) re­allowed me to know my current women and did not mean it as a Catholic Church. Loyalty is not Truth, your questions won'tstrained me while a third actu­self, benefitted with a height­guilt trip. complacent. Searching for bet­threaten it. Challenging yourally raped me. I was slightly ened sense of perception and However, we think Catholics ter ways to glorify God and to faith doesn't destroy it. In fact,
beaten, but they cut my inner empathy, more fully than I 
should feel a little guilty (or at serve people is the best thing as questions are answered,thighs to let me know that they would otherwise. 
least feel something!) when a one can do for the church. you'll find your faith and un­"meant business." When you hear someone statement like "Women obey Weiher calls Stallings a derstanding have deepened. 
I'll never forget the light from speak of rape, please try not to your husbands" results in the "renegade priest" and says "He Michelle Godwin the afternoon sun flashing off shrug it ofT or make light of it. 
senseless beating and oppres­is a disgrace to his race and Meghan J. King 
the knife, the sting of my tears It is a very real terror to one in sion of women in cities around especially to loyal African­Kate Beck which were perhaps more bit­every six women; one that the world. Weiher seems less American Catholics." Who died Megan Grogan ing than the force of their stretches a horrifying half hour concerned with the issue than and made Weiher judge? Isn't Katie Smith blows. and the stickiness of my into a tormented lifetime. 
he is about how Fr. that God's job? How dare he say Saint Mary's College own blood on my inner thighs. But you would never know me McDermott's question affects he is a "disgrace to his race." Grant Johnson I was horrified and humiliated. on sight. I am not withdrawn him. (Selfish to say the least.) What's is Weiher's March 23, 1992
What did I do to deserve this? or cynical. Rather, I am a very They threatened to kill me if I outgoing, friendly person who told anyone -a threat I believed is academically successful and from the c':1S on my legs and involved in a variety of campus their violent demeanors. I was activities. So next time some­only thirteen -robbed of my in­one mentions rape, please try nocence and my adolescence. to take it seriously. You could 
Rape, however, need not be be talking to me. 
violent. When I was fifteen, I 
was at a party -the drinking A Survivor 
and merriment similar to par-March 24, 1992 Dear Editor: 
The history of the sandwich market in LaFortune has hith­erto been the history of con­sumer oppression. And the re­is had, but a lousy cappuccino deli is downright offensive! 
The happy conclusion to this analysis is that although the bad is perhaps the inevitable result of people's failed at­
~------~-~-~-------~---------­
Accent ­
Thursday, March 26, 1992 page 11 

Hipp and Beeler 
Going once, going twice... 
People Auction raises money tor Beeler and Hipp memorial ~-;cholarships ­
By CARRIE KINSELLA 
Accent Writer 
Have you always dreamt of ~doing dinner" with Lou? Or wanted to go one-on-one in a basketball game with Monk? 
The Hall Presidents' Council's People Auction, a campus-wide event to raise money for the memorial scholarships of swimmers Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler, will be held this evening at 7 p.m. in Theodores. 
There are approximately 25 celebrities "for hire" from many different areas of campus life. 
Lou Holtz, Father Edward Malloy, University president­emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, William Kirk, and philosophy professor Thomas Morris have agreed to donate their time. Coach John MacLeod has also consented to be "sold," and Raghib Ismail will offer his services to raise money for the scholarships. 
Many athletes have agreed to be auctioned off. They include members of the women's and men's soccer teams, and the rugby team. Certain tennis, football and basketball players, the cheerleaders, and the Pom­Pon squad will also be available for purchase. 
Also featured will be various rectors, rectresses, and professors. Father Newton (Sorin), Sister Mary Louise Gude (Farley), Father Ross (Morrissey). and Lewis and Walsh's assistant rectresses will be included. 

Those inter1~sted in politics may purcha;;e this year's Student Body lnaders Joe Blanco and Dave Florenzo, as well as next year's team of Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill. 
If one's tastes include atheletics, perhaps Ryan Mihalko, Roclney Culver, or Kevin Pend•Hgast, among others, will bfi of interest. The Irish Guard and the Glee Club are also amo:1g the evening's selections. 
The possibil[ties are endless. Even if you don't "purchase" anyone, enjoy watching friends drool over th<,t member of the Pom-Pon sqt,ad or go broke bidding on tha·: rugby player. 
There is no admission fee for the evening Viewers will, however, want to bring plenty of cash or their ctteckbooks 
If the audience cannot afford to "rent" a celebrity, they may pruchase raffle tickets at a much more modest price throughout thn evening. Bidders are also welcome to go in on their purchases with friends if individual r1~sources do not prove to be enough. 
Raffle prize> will be gift cer­tificates from various local businesses. Tt.ere are two grand prizes. A 36 person pizza party will be provid1~d by Papa John's, and Domino's is offering one free pizza each week through December of 1992. 
Many other businesses, such as Chili's, ChiChi's, the Carriage House, and the Emporium, have also chipped in. Jennifer Swize, an orgainizer of the People Auction, commented, "The businesses were very generous and supportive. They wanted to express their sympathies for the tragedy, but didn't know how.n 
The HPC committee members have worked very hard to recruit volunteers and donations for the event. They are "really excited ... and hoping to see the student body come together and show support for a worthy cause," said Farley co­president Margaret Haugh. 
MariAnne Ravry and Catherine Danahy, Walsh's Co­Presidents, are extremely supportive of the project. Ravry emphasized, "even those who can't attend the auction have offered to be auctioned off." 
Celebrities will take the stage at Theodore's and appropriately grovel for bidders' hard-earned cash. There is no limit to how high the offers can go. HPC estimates these quality participants will not come cheap. 
Once the bidding has ended, buyers will sign contracts stipu­lating the service that will be performed. Certain celebrities have already specified what that service will be, such as dinner or tennis lessons. Other celebrities are available for ne­gotiation, within reason. The celebrities have until finals week to fulfill their duties. 
Dancing nuns invade Staint Mary's 
By KATHERINE PHELAN 
Accent Writer 
The eight month national tour of "Nunsense" will stop for a show at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's on March 27 at 8 p.m. 
The show is directed by its creator Dan Goggin, who wrote the book and music and is currently working on the movie script. Also from the original creative team is Nancy Carroll, choreographer and set designer Barry Artell. 
The plot of "Nunsense" sounds more like a soap opera thOan a musical. During the course of the musical, the kind-hearted mother superior, Sister Julia, accidently poisons 52 members of her fellow sis­ters. 
To complicate matters further, the convent is unable to afford to bury four of the deceased nuns because they had purchased a VCR for the convent. Until funds can be raised for their burial, the deceased nuns are left "chilling" in the freezer. 
Five nuns are living, only because they had been out to play bingo at a neighboring parish the evening of the poisoning. These nuns decide to stage a benefit for their deceased sisters. Sister Mary Leo gives a star performance with her dance entitled, "Dying Nun Ballet." The musical is peppered with other songs like, "We've Got to Clean Out the Freezer," "I Could Have Gone to Nashville," and "Nunsense is Habit Forming." 
"Nunsense" opened off-Broadway in December 1985 and has been playing in New York since the fall of 1986. The musical received four Outer Critics Circle Awards, including Best Off-Broadway Musical, Best Book and Best Music. 
Tickets can be purchased at the Saint Mary's box office in O'Laughlin Auditorium (284-4626). The hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. 


--

The national tour of the award-winning musical "Nunsense" will stop for a performance at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's on March 27 at 8:00p.m. 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------·--------------­
-Accent
page 12 Thursday, March 26, 1992 
Celebrating culture 
International Festival unites Notre Dame and Saint Mary's with local community tor anight of ethnic performances 
BY BILL FEKRAT 

-
Accent Writer 
The traditional cultures of more than thirty countries will be represented in an evening of performances from around the world. 
On March 28 at 7:30 p.m., Notre Dame's International Student Organization will be sponsoring its annual International Festival in the Century Center's Bendix Theatre. The two-hour festival offers a diverse display of music, dancing, and fashion, with more than 170 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and several groups from the Michiana community participating. 
From among the many Notre Dam~ and St. Mary's ethnic clubs and organizations, the program will feature acts from Mexico, the Philippines. India, Puerto Rico, Korea, France, Hungary, China, Spain, Benin, Lebanon, Ireland, and Chile. Participating groups from IUSB will represent Spain, Israel, and India, while a local community group will represent Japan. The acts will perform dances such as the Chilean Cueca, a Hawaiian Hula, a Lebanese Dabkeh, and a Filipino Tinikling Dance. Music will include folk songs from Israel, France, and a medley of Latin American songs. 
Greater involvement of the community is a significant difference 




between this show and the ISO show which was put on over a month ago. The previous show targeted the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community, while this one shares the university's facets of cultural diversity with the entire community. Ramzi Bualuan, a visiting professor who is co-producing the performance said, "With this festival, we want to open a link between Notre Dame and the South Bend community." The incorporation of the IUSB and local South Bend groups is one of the ways of creating such a link. 
Having the show off-campus is another way of making a link. This year's festival is the third to take place in the Century Center since the program was originated by Bualuan nine years ago. The International Festival that existed before Bualuan began producing featured more comedy skits fashioned after the Keenan Revue. Bualuan wanted to eliminate the skits and focus more on representing the traditions of different countries. His program was performed successfully downtown in 1989 and 1990, but was absent in 1991. This year everyone involved with the festival hopes to offer something very special to the community. 
The goal of the show is to bring people of different cultures to an understanding of other ethnic traditions and backgrounds. Co-producer Christophe Kougniazonde, a graduate student from Benin and president of the African Student Association said, "This show is a way for people to know each other better and tolerate each other's differences... People who come to the rehearsals and performances develop a sensitivity for the other cultures they encounter." 
Kougniazonde also sees a similar reaction from those who attend the shows. "We measure the audience's response when we get calls at the African Student Association and the ISO from people who say they want to see more of this kind of program. People want to know about other cultures and we've gotten some loyal patrons over the years." 
Members of the ISO stress that the festival, as well as the organization, is not intended to be exclusively for foreign students. Esteban Cantillo, a sophomore student from Costa Rica, said, "We want to emphasize diversity and not just from specific cultures, but from all cultures. A lot of people have a misconception that the ISO is only for international students, but we want Americans to share and participate as well. This festival is one of the best ways for people to understand different cultures." 
Admission to the performance is $3 for students and $5 for all others. Tickets may be purchased from the Century Center box office (284-9111 ), the International Student Affairs Office on the second floor of LaFortune Center (239-5243). or the LaFortune Information Desk. 
There will be a special shuttle to the Century Center for people who wish to go but do not have transportation. Anyone who needs a ride should contact the ISO office. 
The secret identity of Dr. Mcinerny 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN Mcinerny slyly replied, "Absolutely in Belgium. Quick to get past his ill feelings about Literary Critic not. I've written several." And so his The story was published under mystery writing, Mcinerny has mas­story goes. Mcinerny pen-name, Ernan Mackey. He tered it with such best-selling novels 
Sometimes appearances may not be Mcinerny joined Notre Dame's used this name to tell a story based on like "The Priest" in 1973, which sold what they seem, like when one orders philosophy department in 1955 after a his personal experiences from four over 1,000,000 copies. chocolate ice cream and its turns out to year of teaching at Creighton University years previous to this publication, when be chocolate yogurt or a short three­in Omaha, Nebraska. Although teaching he had been on a Fulbright Fellowship A favorite past-time of Mcinerny and page paper becomes a paradox of was his profession, writing was his love. in Louvain. his wife when they travel is to stop by terms. After the pivotal sale of "The First small-town libraries in the Midwest, for 
The same type of thing can be applied After receiving tenure at the Farewell," it took everything Mcinerny the Midwest often is the background for to the life of Dr. Ralph Mcinerny, the University and having been published had to keep up with the demand for many of his stories. Michael P. Grace professor of Medieval academically, Mcinerny decided on stories from various commercial "I first like to look my novels up in the Studies, director of the Jacques January 16, 1964, a day he will never magazines. Many of the stories that had card catalog and see how many the Maritain Center and one of the world's forget, to see if if he had what it took to been rejected before Redbook's library has on their shelves. I then like
-
leading Thomistic scholars. be a professional writer. purchase were able to be sold after to see if the books have the check-out 
-
Besides such scholarly work, he is Each night, without exception, after meticulous revisions. "I sold more in cards on the inside so I can see what my also the author of many popularly read helping his wife Connie put their chil­one year than I ever had," Mcinerny readership is like. The names of my novels and mysteries, including those dren to bed, he would descend to the remembered. readers makes it [his writing] all seem that sparked the NBC television series basement to his "nest," where he would more real," Mcinerny said. "The Father Dowling Mysteries" that write from 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. He "It dawned on me that rewriting is the When asked what he believes his starred Tom Bosley. promised his wife that if after a year his heart of writing, that I needed discipline greatest accomplishment has been in 
There are students who have him for acceptances had not outweighed his in writing words. It's a cliche, but true, his career, Mcinerny states that he is a professor and never know about his rejections, he would give up writing and that the reader doesn't owe you a happy that he has done as well as he life as a mystery-writer, said Mcinerny. stick to being a philosopher.. reading; you have to earn it. All of this has "without compromising [his] His peers have a hard-time believing it, Mcinerny's first big sale came only a was burned into my mind, and gradu­Catholic values." as welL Mcinerny specifically recalled month before his proposed deadline. ally I moved from being a dilettante to In recent years, Mcinerny has an incident when he was at a After writing 60 short stories, Redbook being a professional writer," Mcinerny marketed audiocassette courses on how conference on metaphysics and an Magazine sent him a $1,000 check for a said. to write short stories and mysteries and Aristotelian scholar cornered him and piece titled "The First Farewell." The When his editor first suggested has taken up drawing in his spare time, curiously questioned, "Someone said plot revolves around an uptight couple writing mystery, "I was insulted at the or flying from city to city to give you have written a novel. That's not from Minnesota who send their idea because I am an artist," Mcinerny lectures, or simply teaching. "It just true, is it?" daughters to a French-speaking school added. keeps me busy," he said. 
The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1992 

Florida squeaks by Boilermakers, 74-67 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Purdue missed its first three with 1:56 left, but couldn't draw any closer than the final
Reserve Brian Hogan, playing in shots and had two turnovers 
his home state, matched his before scoring its first points margin. 
Woody Austin, Purdue's lead­

career high with 18 points as with 16:10 remaining in the ing scorer, finished with 25
Florida defeated Purdue 74-67 half. 
Purdue (18-15) was points. But he was 11-of-24

Wednesday night to reach the from the field and did much of
outscored 12-6 to start the second half, and Florida opened his scoring after Florida took

semifinals of the National 
Invitation Tournament. 
Hogan, a senior averaging its biggest lead when Hogan hit control. 
4.1 points per game, made a 3-pointer for a 59-44 
Stacey Poole had 13 pointsthree 3-pointers to increase his advantage. 

The Boilermakers trailed 66-and Andrew DeClercq 12 for

school record to 117. 
The Gators (19-13) scored 50 after Dan Cross made one Florida, which outscored the Boilermakers 31-10 off the
the first six points of the game free throw with 2:43 left. 
bench. Stacey PoolePurdue cut the deficit to 67-59
and led 39-35 at halftime. 

page 13 

Reduce. Recycle. Reuse. The earth will thank you for it. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need ride to North Carolina -FAST CASH-D It puts the lotion on its skin, or else Please, help me. If anyone out there May 8th or 9th Need "any" 2 commencm't I it gets the hose again. has McDonald's Basketball Cards I I NOTICES Will split tolls and gas tix. Promise them now for big s need them. If I achieve nothing else 
Call Dave 3633 bucks... PLEASE!! Karen 2770 S Tonight (Stupid.} in my life, at least I want to have the TYPING AVAILABLE F 10:00-entire set. I will cosider buying, 287-4082. MICRO TUTOR NEEDED, U at Bridget's She sings a song and I listen to trading, or even accepting them as 
CSE332/EE361,2 hrs/week@ PERSONAL N what it says-a gift. If you have any information at Typing $7.50/hr. (negotiable}. call Mike K If you want a friend, feed any animal all concerning this please take baby Pickup & Delivery x2058 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. T There's so much space, I cut me a steps to the phone and call Quinn at 277-7406 Good rates. Save Money. Call me I piece with some fine wine, x2059. 
Need a job for next year? Nanny for for a quote 9:30-6:00, 0 It brought peace to my mind in the newborn in our Granger home, M-F, 289-1993. Office near campus. N Summertime, BILL MCFARLANE!!!!!I!!I 
ILOST/FOUND J 
begin late Aug. Live in or out. 271-And it rolled! Will you come to my formal? 
1935 I, myself, cannot. D Pleeeeze? You make me so LOST: woman's petite green class I ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL happy!I ring. Inscription reads "ACS '93". If You should be with us, feeling like s COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED, Love, found please return to 143 Farley or FOR RENT we do... S SATURDAY FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG Kristy Angie at 4095. F Mar. 28, 10:00-BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award U ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY HEY!! Today is MICHAEL FOUND: PEN OUTSIDE OF 219-291-7153. Winning Hotel, has rooms for N AT BRIDGET'S INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF PILAWSKI'S birthday!! Call him at SOUTH DINING HALL ON FRIDAY, Graduation weekend. Located at K FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND X-3217 to wish him a happy 3/20. CALL 232-2794 & IDENTIFY. 3 Bedroom Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart T PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S birthday. 
Walk to Campus (12 miles from South Bend) I ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID. LOST Black & Silver Watch $555 Month Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 0 JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933­Sat. night at 232 3616 deposit per room. Send letter with N 3499. To The Notre Dame Family, Battle of the Bands depositto 3011 Belvedere Rd., Reward Call Matt x2347 COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12 Elkhart, IN 46514. Attention ND/SMC, Heading for EUROPE this summer? I need your help. 
NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. -The first annual meeting of the Jet there anytime for $169 from the My three sisters, two brothers, String of Pearls found outside Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -WANTED: Two or more U2 tix S&M Club will be held on April 1 a· East Coast, $229 from the Midwest and my mom and dad are coming Breen Phillips 3/19/92 available immediately-call 287-for Chicago show. $-no object! Call 9:00 pm. All interested, please call (when available) with AIRHITCH! for graduation in may. That means I Contact 101 O'Shag 0534 or 271-9268. 1087 the Whipping Boy at "1408 to (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.) need to find at least three extra 
reserve your position for the For details: gradution tickets. LOST: Black Case Swiss tote bag Ideal house for graduate Female roommate wanted for May. evening. Bring all toys desirable. AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000. Is there anyone that could spare filled with books on 9th student with family. 3 bdr Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the Just listen to these references: an extra ticket or two? I would Hesburgh. Very important!! 2 bath. One block from ND. lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $451/mo plus "It's an intense experience-bearded Rumor ... Eivin has been seen eating appreciate any help. Call 273-9033. 637 Peashway. $525 month utilities. call (312) 975-5035. or not": Wolfman an omelet at Greenfields Cafe. 
234-1714 "Norton, get over here now!": Dude• Please call Cris@ x4907. LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation So there it is folks. Sign up early, as SAFETY ON CAMPUS PANEL Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many 1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. please call Neal at 283-1159 space is limited, but the imagination DISCUSSION: Policies and needed cards inside. If found, USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO. is not. Procedures Surrounding Rape and please call x2722. 232-2794. Howdy Farley buddies! To those of Harassment. Representatives from 
you going to the dance this Here they are: the security and student affairs To The Notre Dame Family, ""LOST.. NEEDED TWO FEMALE weekend, have fun, and don't burn (Appalachia spring1992) departments of ND and SMC will be a green jacket w/ a ROOMMATES TO SHARE the spaghetti. To those of you who "Where are you going for Spring on the panel to discuss campus I need your help. tan/brown collar FURNISHED OAKHILL CONDO are escaping the dating torture: Break?" policies. Held at SMC's Haggar My three sisters, two brothers, lost at turtle creek on FOR SUMMER AND/OR 92-93 WHE-HEW! Enjoy the movies or "Isn't this how every Friday the 13t 1 Parlor, the event will begin at and my mom and dad are coming st. Patty's day YEAR. AMY@ 277-9452 whatever you do. You can listen to starts out?!" 7:30pm tonight, March 26, and all for graduation in may. That means I call mike X4183 Garth any old time. "I'm sure we could get along without are encouraged to attend. need to find at least three extra 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., you Hobbes." gradution tickets. 
• Found at NAZZ • for large 4-BR, furnished house. BEADS?????PAT OBRIEN'S??? "It's a thankless job!" SOUNDTECHS Is there anyone that could spare Gold and Silver bracelet found Complete security system; washer "Good night, Doctor Love. Good D.!;;; an extra ticket or two? I would at Nazz last Saturday -call and & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259-WHAT IS SO CRAZY??? Luck!!" SOUNDTECHS appreciate any help. describe it if you want it back! 7801 or 255-5852. "Excuse me guys, what are those DJs -Ryan x1247 I DO NOT UNDERSTAND???? two dogs doing?" The Student Activities Office Please call Cris@ x4907. 
Furnished: "You're holding my hand Hobbes" is looking for sound /light Turtlecreek Court Townhouse FOR SALE: "6'4 X 35" technicians and disc jockeys WANTED Available for summer rental "If you say 'babe' one more time for next year. If interested 
Please contact 277-CAMPUS CELEBRITIES! Hobbes, we're droppin you off!" stop by 315 LaFortune VOTE FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN SUMMER JOBS 625~--------ROCKET "This hammer is awfully Heavy!" Student Center. SBA TREASURER. JAMIE ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS LOU "Girls in the front on their knees, Deadline for applications is O'BRIEN PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS Attractive studio's in lovely old MONK Please!" Friday, March 27. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Mansion 1/2 mile from ND 225-ND CHEERLEADERS "You ARE so good looking!" SPECIAL AGENT P, SWEET NEAR LAKE PLACID 300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 ROD CULVER "Dude. I'll be face down in the van THE METHA-TONES WILLIE, BEENIE, MIKEY P, POO, CALL 1-800-786-8373 for summer and fall rentals. IRISH GUARD after tonight...Maybe I'll yack out the Sat. March 28 Club 23 DRADLE, BAGEL 
POMPONS window all the way home. Yeah, Make-up and handcuffs 
NDTENNIS we'll be the YACKMEISTERs, optional HAPPY BIRTHDAY, HOPE YOU $350.00/DAY PROCESSING FOR SALE Karen." HAD FUN HI-VA, HI-VA! PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL PEOPLE AUCTION "POOR BABE!" ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS YOU. NO EXPERIENCE GUNS 'N ROSES TICKETS FOR THURS. 3-26 "Baby, baby, baby!" A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS LOVE, JE_ GIRL NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. SALE. FOR INFO -JILL X3021 7 PM, THEODORE'S "Colleen's billing is far better than A BABY! Young financially secure 
BENEFITS MEGHAN BEELER & fer performance!" Catholic couple looking to adopt K-GLADLY-B SALES STUDENTS & PARENTS! COLLEEN HIPP SCHOL. FUNDS "It's right between your legs Karen!' and provide a loving home to an 
SAVE on those housing costs. Buy "Dan has no preference, he'll take infant. All Expenses paid. Please IT'S4 U McP NOW HIRING FULL TIME AND this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. PEOPLE AUCTION anything he can get!" call collect (317) 364-0300 for more PART TIME SALES ASSOCIATES Get a break on your taxes, and a THUS. MARCH 26 "Habba Dabba Snabba" information. To the lovely woman I ran into at FOR IMMEDIATE OPENINGS OR return on your investment after 7 PM THEODORE'S In closing, thanks everyone for North Dining Hall on Wednesday SUMMER HELP IN THE NEAR graduation. Call Janet Knapp at BE THERE!!!!!! happyness and hell! Brenden, ASIAN who commented on my terrible WEST SUBURBS OF CHICAGO RE/MAX 100 realty tor more Karen, Andy, Michelle, Bill "Fearles; AMERICAN eating habits during National Health 
information. 219-255-5858 or 219-THE CHAMPS, KRISTY & BILL Leader", Kath Ann, Dan,Colleen, ASSOCIATION Month, you are absolutely right and WE OFFER: 277-7402. SUFFERED A TEMPORARY SET Amy, John "I don't puke in two MEMBERSHIP DRIVE! I was totally impressed. Any chance BACK IN BOWLING TO RENELLE states",Sheila & Hobbes. DANCE PARTY you'd like to meet over a mineral 
• 
$8-$15 PER HOUR FOR SALE-One way plane AND CHRIS. FRIDAY APRIL 27th water or something like that? 

• 
WEEKLY PAYOUT ticket, $80.00, from South Bend. to "T"N"D" 9:30pm-! :30am Please respond here. 

• 
TRAINING PROVIDED Denver,CO. Leaves TROOP NOTRE DAME THEODORE'S 

• 
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE May 9 at 11 :40A.M. Custom-made OPEN TO ALL!! CLUEless: (10-40 HRS. PER WEEK) CALL Josh x1522 HAIR-BOWS There will be a meeting in AAA Just Do It!!! Just wanted to know... 

• 
SATURDAY INTERVIEWING ROOM 219 AT THE ROCK -Are you happy getting it?? AVAILABLE. For sale: U2 tix. by Lynn and Sally THURSDAY, MARCH 26 It's here! Cream your favorite -There's a crack where?? 


Call 284-4230 or 9:30pm Lyonite! Fri. March 27, lyons Arch -You woke up to lind who CALL (708) 955-3578 AND ASK 284-4145. call x2764 for anyone who would like to 4:30 p.m. $1 per pie---Signups taking things off you?? FOR PHYL. perform for upcoming spring events. lunch/dinner-5DH, Wed. & Thurs. -TIMES UP unless your having 
-various materials, designs All Are Welcome another drink!! 
TICKETS and colors available-Call Ron at X1790 if any HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!! Now taking aplication for part-time questions or problems PEOPLE AUCTION -the eternally happy one employment in a U2 TICKETS FOR SALE THURS, 3-26 Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop March 31 concert at the Rosemount Today is Cara Lewis' 21st Birthday. "T"N"D" 7 PM, THEODORE'S To the blond with red sweat pants in exp. required. Horizon If you see her, be sure to offer her a the huddle on Tue.(12 pm), I got 
best offer drink and ask her to call you really RAFFLE TIX ON SALE chills&they're still multiplying, The 
call 284-3814 late at night for a conversation to hey nil TUES&WED IN Grader ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT leave name, ph # and price you are remember. DINING HALLS­-fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. willing to pay ALSO CAN BUY AT Free transportation! Room & Board! STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA The Lizard King lives on! Down with THE DOOR THURS Attn: Chris, Brian, & others, Over 8,000 openings. No U2 TIX-CHI, 3/31 Info on semester, year, graduate, the Crustaceans! remember EF/JB's St. Patty's Day experience necessary. Male or Selling U2 tix:call x4634, summer and internship programs in WIN GREAT PRIZES! words! Female. For employment program leave best offer. Call THURS Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and to the athletic dept.: "I WANT A MEANINGLESS call Student Employment Services ONLY, noon-Bpm. Asking $80-Melbourne. Programs start at your time is gonna come Why can't you. What have you RELATIONSHIP!!!!" at t-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 125 pertik $3520. Callt-800-878-3696. -led zeppelin got to lose? Did you really think I'd forget? 

NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL STATS 

NOTRE DAME 74, MANHATTAN 58 
TRANSACTIONS . 

BATTING PLAYER BA G AB R H RBI 2B 3B HR MANHAITAN (25-9) BASEBALL Amy Reu18r 1.000 13 2 4 2 0 0 0 0 
American LeagueEdwards 2·5 0·3 4, Bullock 7·17 2·4 16, Bernsley 4-10 0·0 8, R. Williams 4·6 1·2

Sara Hayes .371 19 62 7 23 12 5 1 2 Liz Goetz .333 4 6 0 2 1 0 0 0 

10. Dubra 1·7 0·0 3, Nightingale 1·1 0·0 3, C. Williams 0·2 0·0 o, Corrigan 1·1 0·0 2 SEATTLE MARINERs-optioned Jim Lisa Miller .278 15 18 3 5 0 0 0 0 
Brown 0·0 0·0 0, Wilson 5·11 0·0 12. Totals 25·60 3·9 58. ' Newlin and Kerry Woodson. pitchers, to Carrie Miller .269 19 52 7 14 3 1 0 0 
NOTRE DAME (17·14) Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League. Sent Ruth Kmak .267 19 45 6 12 7 4 0 0 Ellis 12·19 1·2 25, Taylor 3·5 3-4 9, Tower 0-2 0·0 o. Bennett 3·7 3-4 10, Sweet Roger Salkeld, pitcher, to their minor Sherr! Quinn .250 13 28 3 7 3 1 0 0 6·18 0·0 22, Adamson 0·0 0·0 0, Boyar 0·0 0·0 0, Russell 2·2 0·0 4, J. Williams 0·1 league camp for reassignment. 
Christy Connoyer .228 19 57 4 13 4 0 1 0 0·0 0, Justice 0·0 0·0 0, Gilmore 0·0 2·2 2, Tully 0·0 Q.Q 0, Cozen 0·1 0-1 o, Joe TEXAS RANGERs-optioned Jose Amy Folsom .222 17 45 4 10 3 0 0 0 Ross 0·0 0-0 0, Jon Ross 1·2 0-0 2. Totals 29·57 9·13 74. Hernandez and Rob Maurer, lnllolders, to

Stephanie Pintar .207 19 58 4 12 4 1 0 1 Melissa Cook .200 3 5 0 1 1 0 0 0 

Halftime-Notre Dame 31, Manhattan 23. 3·Poln1 goals-Manhattan 5·14 (Edwards 0· Oklahoma City of the American Association. Debbie Boulac .189 19 53 2 10 1 0 0 0 
1, R. Williams 1·1, Dubra 1·5, Nightingale 1·1, C. Williams 0·2, Wilson 2·4), Notre Optioned Chris Colon, lnileldor, to Tulsa of Ronny Alvarez .166 16 43 1 8 0 0 0 0 Dame 7·14 (Ellis 0·1, Bennett 1·2. Sweet 6·9, J. Williams 0·1, Cozen 0·1). Fouled out­the Texas League. Sent Doug Davis, catcher, Andrea Keys .182 8 11 2 2 0 1 0 0 None. Rebounds-Manhattan 25 (R. Williams 7), Notre Dame 44 (Ellis 17). Assists­to Oklahoma City. Casey McMurray .103 13 29 1 3 0 0 2 0 Manhattan 5 (Bullock 2), Notre Dame 20 (Bonnett 13). Total fouls-Manhattan 15, Notre National League Michelle Cline .000 9 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 Dame 11. A-6,569. ATLANTA BRAVES-Optioned David Nled,
NOTRE DAME .240 19 517 51 124 39 13 4 3 pitcher, to Richmond of the InternationalOPPONENTS .203 19 507 46 103 35 19 9 0 League. Sent Armando Reynoso and Tom 
McCarthy. pitchers, to their minor leaguePITCHING STATISITICS 

FLORIDA 74, PURDUE 67 
for reassignment. Stacl Allord 1.18 11 4 4·1 1 3 45.7 35 4 38 HOUSTON ASTROs-optioned Miks Capel, Melissa Linn 1.40 11 9 5·5 0 5 58.0 37 15 24 Chris Gardner, Jeff Juden and Brian PITCHING ERA G GS W·L s CG IP H BB so camp 
FLORIDA (1g·12)

Carrie Miller 3.18 6 6 1·3 0 1 28.3 23 9 3 Williams, pitchers, and Karl Rhodes, Aimee Terry 17.18 1 0 0·0 0 0 3.7 6 2 6 
Poole 6·13 1·2 13, Grimsley 3·5 1·3 7, DeClercq 5·6 2·4 12, Brown 3·3 2·4 6, Cross outfielder, to Tucson oi the Pacific CoastNOTRE DAME 2.12 19 19 10·9 9 135.7 103 30 1·4 2·4 5, Hogan 5·9 5·5 18, Drykolbotn 1·4 0·0 2. Kulsma 2·4 2·6 6, Stewart 1·2 2·2
1 67 League. Sent Rod Booker and Rick Parker,OPPONENTS 2.38 19 19 9·10 0 17 136.0 124 36 49 5. Totals 26·52 17·30 74. 
lniiolders, and Barry Lyons, catcher, to
PURDUE (18·14) Teom Fielding Stotiatlca PO A E DP FLO % 
their minor league camp tor roas~ignmont.

Martin 1·2 1·2 3, Stanback 5·8 0·0 10, Riley 4·9 1-1 9, Austin 11·24 2·3 25, Darner 
NOTRE DAME 407 178 30 4 .951 LOS ANGELES DODGERS--Named Pabb 
3·6 2·2 10, Waddell 1·6 2·2 4, Brantley 1·2 0·0 2, Painter 0·1 1·2 1, Trice 0·2 2·3 2.
OPPONENTS 406 195 39 0 .939 Peguero general manager of Campos Las
..... 
Totals 26·80 12·16 67. 
Palmas In the Dominican Republic.

Hantlme-Aorlda 39, Purdue 35. 3-Polnt goals-Florida 5·12 (Hogan 3·7, Stewart 1· BASKETBALL2. Cross 1·3), Purdue 3·15 (Darner 2·4, Austin 1·6, Painter 0·1, Trice 0·2, Waddell 0· 
Nationol Buketball Aaaociation

2). Fouled out-Damar. Rebounds-Aorlda 38 (Cross 5), Purdue 39 (Stanback 8). Asslsts­ATLANTA HAWKS-Named Don Chaney Aorlda 16 (Brown 6), Purdue 15 (Austin 5). Total iouls-Aorida 17, Purdue 23. A­drait consultant.
NCAA DIVISION I MEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP 
11,510. 
FOOTBALL 

National Football League LOS ANGELES RAM5-Signed JeffNIT ROUNDUP Chadwick, wide receiver. 
Regional Finals March 26-29 
Canadian Football League HAMILTON TIGER-CATS-Announced the 
....,,,, 
Tueodoy, Morch 24

Firat Round retirement oi Rocky DiPietro, slot back Wedneadoy, March 18 HOCKEY 
~·· UTEP Kansas City, 

Rhode Island 81, Boston College 60. 20T
.. :bMo 
Utah 60, Arizona State 58
·. Mar. 27 

Tennessee 71, Alabama-Birmingham 68 Natlonoi Hockey League 
Quorterllnola Wedneadoy, March 25 

Notre Dame 63, Western Michigan 56 QUEBEC NORDIQUE5-Sent Bill Lindsay, 
Phil~~:: L.::l~ 

Virginia 83, Villanova 80 left wing, to Tri-Citles of tho Western
iGincinnati Mar 29 
Notre Dame 74, Manhattan 56

Kansas State 85, Western Kentucky 74 Hockey League. Sent John Tanner, 
Florida 74, Purdue 67
Georgia Tech 
UMass 

Pittsburgh 87, Penn State 65 goaltender, to Halifax of the American Washington State 72, Minnesota 70 Hockey League. 
Frldoy, Morch 27 

New Mexico (20·12) vs. Virginia (17·13)
Mar. 27 

Thuradoy, Morch 19 SAN JOSE SHARKS-Sent Claudio at Richmond, Va., 7:30 p.m.
Manhattan 67, Wisconsin-Green Bay 65 Scremin, deienseman, to Kansas City oi the
CHAMPIONSHIP 

Rhode Island (22·9) at Utah (22·1 0), 9:30
Memphis St. 

Purdue 82, Butler 56 International League.
Minneapolis 
p.m.

Florida 66, Richmond 52 COLLEGE 
Semlllnola
April6 

Boston College 78, Southern Illinois 69 
ABILENE CHRISTIA~amed Suzanne
Ohio State UCLA 
At New York

Rhode Island 68, Vanderbilt 63 
Johnson women's basketball coach.
Semifinals April 4 
Monday. March 30

Texas Christian 73, Long Beach State 61
Mar. 27 

KUTZTOWN-Named Clark Yeager athletic Utah 72, Ball State 57 director.
Chompionahlp 
At New York

New Mexico 90, Louisiana Tech 84 
NORTHWESTERN LOUISIANA-Promo18d Wednesday, April 1
North Carolina 

Arizona St. 71, UC Santa Barbara 65 
Scott Stoker, part-time coach, to offensive Frldoy, Morch 20 backfield coach.
~., •. ·Michlgan~r 29 

Rutgers 73, James Madison 69 
NEWBERRY-Named Peggy Barnes 
Second Round
w Mar. 27 
women's basketball coach.
% . 
Mondoy, Morch 23 
RUTGERS-Named Tina Raddish women's
• Okl h S Lexington, 

Purdue 67. Texas Christian 51 
volleyball coach.
. a oma t. K 

Notre Dame 64, Kansas State 47
~.
': y. 
TENNESSEE STATE-Announced the 

Virginia 77, Tennessee 52 
resignation oi Joe Gilliam Sr., iootball Manhattan 62, Rutgers 61 coach. Florida 77, Pittsburgh 74 
WISCONSIN-Named Stu Jackson men's New Max leo 79, Washington State 71 
basketball coach.
The Observer I Eric Kreidler 

r·····················································~ 
i I PEOPLE AUCTIONi I 
i TONIGHT 7:00pm THEODORE'S i 
I I 
: AUCTION SCHEDULE : 
: 7:00 Tommy Carter & Jeff Burris 8:00 lrv Smith & Pete Bereich : 
1 
7:05 Fr. Steve Newton 8:05 Bill Kirk I : 7:10 Ryan Mihalko & Rod Culver 8:10 Men's Soccer : 

1 
7:15 Raghib "Rocket" Ismail 8:15 Fr. Hesburgh 1 : 7:20 Walsh Staff 8:20 Fr. Joe Ross : 

1 
7:25 Women's Soccer 8:25 Greg Butrus & Molly O'Neill 1 I 7:30 Lou Holtz 8:30 John Macleod I 


I I
1 
7:35 Christy Faustmann & Terri Vitale 8:35 Men Cheerleaders 1 I Andy Zurcher & Dave Dilucia 8:40 Lewis Hall Staff I : 7:40 Joseph Blanco & Dave Florenzo 8:45 Irish Guard : I 7:45 Professor Morris 8:50 Rugby Team I : 7:50 Kevin Pendergast 8:55 Women Cheerleaders : 

1 
7:55 Glee Club 9:00 Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy I 


I I 
: TO BENEFIT THE MEG HAN BEELER AND COLEEN : : HIPP MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP FUNDS : 
: SPONSORED BY HPC : L--··•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
Thursday, March 26, 1992 The Observer 
page 15 

Seattle sale befc;>rE~ Opening Day doubtful. 

TUCSON, Ariz. (AP) ­Baseball commissioner Fay Vincent says he doubts the is­sue of whether the Seattle Mariners should be sold to a Japanese-led group can be set­tled by opening day April 6. 
"Opening day is less than two weeks away and I don't be­lieve it can happen that quickly," Vincent said Tuesday after attending an exhibition game between the Mariners and the Cleveland Indians. 
Vincent said he has reached a recommendation on the pro­posed sale, but wouldn't elabo­rate. 
''I'm not going to say what my decision is," he said. "It is best for all of us to go to a meeting and speak there, not in 
GOLF PRO SHOP ROCKNE MEMORIAL BUILDING 
SPRING $50.00 SUMMER $75.00 FALL $50.00 

CALL 239-6425 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION HOURS 6:30AM-4:00PM. 7 DAYS A WEEK 
public.... My insights should be reserved for the people who will decidfi." 
A group that includes Hiroshi Yamauchi, president of Japanesf· videogame-maker Nintendo Co. Ltd., has offered to buy th·~ Mariners from Jeff Smulyan for $100 million. The group also would provide $25 million for operating costs. Yamauch.'s portion of the in­vestment would be controlled by his ~on-in-law, Minoru Arakawa, president of Nintendo's U.S. subsidiary in Redmond, Wash. 
Vincent said he talked Tuesday to Fred Kuhlmann, president of the St. Louis Cardinals and chairman of baseball's ownership commit­tee, about scheduling a meet­ing. 
Kuhlmann said committee members would like Arakawa, and possibly Yamauchi, to at­tend. 
Bob Hartley, a spokesman for the group offering to buy the team, said a request for an appearance by Arakawa or Yamauchi is "news to us." But he said the group would con­sider any request. 
The 10-member ownership committee is expected to meet before opening day and possibly decide whether to recomiJiend the sale to the remaining owners. A recommendation might not come, however, until the next scheduled owners' meeting in June. 
Jastpers 
continued from page 20 
the night was by Bennett extend the Irish lead to 51-34 at the 11:18 mark. 
Jon Ross grabbed one his five rebounds and gave it to Bennett in the baGkcourt. From there it was all Elmer. 
He raced up court and took it to the hole, where he took off and stuffed it down over the six-foot-seven Bullock .. 
"I couldn't see the actual dunk. All I could see was five or 
:\!Jlt·rit:a.n K1!d Crus!" 


five and a half feet of space un­
derneath him. He was way up 
there," Ellis said of the play. 
This led to a chorus of "El­
mer-Ben-nett" from the enthu­
siastic crowd of 6,569. 
From there the Irish coasted 
to a trip to New York. 
With 3:14 remaining Ellis left the Joyce ACC floor for the last time in his brilliant collegiate career to a standing ovation, and the other three seniors re­ceived the same token of the · crowd's appreciation a minute later as the band played "New York, New York." 
Though their careers at the JACC are over, the seniors are not reminiscing yet. Rather, they are looking forward to the trip to the Big Apple. 
"I love New York. All the se­niors play extremely well there," Sweet commented. "We just want to stay consistent and avoid any letdowns." 
An American·Company Serving America. 
Dick's Marathon 
•
~TL'DEq
I 01111111 I 

Who is the best teacher you•ve had at Notre D;ame? 
Which faculty members excel at teaching underg1raduate classes? 
HOUSES FOR RENT 
Show your appreciation by nominating your top teachers 
1992-93 YEAR 
for the first annual 

4-8 BEDROOMS 
Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching A·ward. 
FULLY FURNISHED 
Nomination forms are available in the Studt!nt 
KEG ERA TORS 
Government Office. Call 239·7668 for more information. 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 
~HDE\T )Tl'OE\T
• Deadline: 7uesday, March 31 • 
101!111111 1011111111 
287-4989 
....._________________________. .·.-.·.-,•.•.·.·.·.·.·.-.·.·.·.w.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-,•,·.·.·,•.·.•.·,•.·.·,·.·.·.·.-..·.•••.••••·. ,·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.-.·.·.-.·.·.· 

page 16 The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1992 
Hornets, Celtics, Cavs win in NBA action 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Kendall Gill scored 28 points as the Charlotte Hornets took ad­vantage of the absence of All­Star center David Robinson Wednesday night for a 113-108 victory over the San Antonio Spurs. 
Robinson sat out the game with sprain':d ligaments in his left thumb. It was the first time in his 232-game career that he has been out of the lineup. 
In his absence, Terry Cummings had 34 points and 15 rebounds for the Spurs, while Antoine Carr had 21 points. 
Curry finished with 20 points and Kenny Gattison 19 for the Hornets, whose reserves outscored the Spurs' bench players 41-11. 
Tholen 
continued from page 20 
national indoor championship in 1988 in Detroit. 
When it came time to choose a college, schools came knock­ing and Tholen visited Texas Christian and LSU , both strong tennis schools, before deciding on Notre Dame, the only place she applied. As with so many other students here, it was a visit to the eampus that did the trick. 
As a freshman, Tholen com­piled a 27-11 overall mark at singles, seeing ac.tion at the second, third, and fourth slots, and was 22-14 in doubles play. She captured the number-four singles title at the MCC champi­onships, not dropping a single 
Celtics 118, Nets 11 0 
EAST RUTHEHFOHD, N.J. ­Kevin McHale hit 10 of 11 shots and scored a season-high 24 points as Boston shot 60 per­cent and beat New Jersey for its fourth straight victory. 
The win by the Celtics cooled off a Nets hot streak at home in which they won 17 of 20 games at the Meadowlands Arena. 
Boston got big games from the usual cast of characters in offsetting a 34-point perfor­mance by Derrick Coleman. Larry Bird had 25 points, nine rebounds and nine assists, while Reggie Lewis scored 19 points. 
Warriors 103, Pistons 99 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich ­Chris Mullin scored 33 points and Tim Hardaway 30 and they 
set on the way, and teamed with classmate Terri Vitale to take home the second-doubles crown. 
"I loved every minute of freshman year," said Tholen, "and I didn't really have any trouble adjusting. We had three freshmen, so we were lucky. [Jay] had mentioned that he wanted me in the doubles lineup. He wanted all of us in there, and we were also felt out at three through five singles." 
This year, preseason expecta­tions were high, and the Irish came into the season ranked 25th nationally. Unfortunately, a killer schedule resulted in some close losses, and the Irish currently stand at 5-7 for the year. 
Tholen, however, has come through for the Irish all season long. She is 18-5 for the year in combined for Golden State's fi­nal 20 points in the last 7:14 against Detroit. 

The win broke the Warriors' three-game losing streak, all on the road, and was their first road victory against the Pistons since Jan. 29, 1981, a span of 10 games. 
Dumars led the Pistons with 25 and Rodman had 21 re­bounds, including 12 in the first quarter when Detroit grabbed a 33-24lead. 
Cavs 106, Magic 96 
OHLANDO, Fla. -Mark Price matched his season high with 30 points, six of them during a crucial fourth-quarter stretch when Cleveland held on to beat Orlando. 
Larry Nance scored eight of his 22 points down the stretch 
singles, including 11-1 this spring. Her only loss was at Clemson over spring break, and that match went 7-5 in the third set. Lisa had an 11-match win streak stopped in that contest, d·ating back to the Tennessee match in November. 
Though a Tholen singles vic­tory has virtually been a given this season, the Irish have often found themselves on the wrong side of a close score. 
"I don't think we're winning the matches we should be," said Tholen. "We've been as close as· you can get. At the beginning of the season, we knew we were good. Our record doesn't show our potential as a team." 
The Irish go into this week­end's matches against Kansas, Wisconsin, and Boston College needing some big wins to get as the Cavaliers won their fourth straight game and for the ninth time in their last 10. Brad Daugherty added 18 points and 10 rebounds. 
Stanley Hoberts led Orlando with 15 points, nine of them in the fourth quarter when the Magic cut a 13-point deficit to 86-79 but couldn't get any closer. 
Heat 105, Timberwolves 97 
MINNEAPOLIS -Grant Long had 27 points and 15 rebounds and Glen Rice scored 22 points as Miami handed Minnesota its 14th straight loss. 
The win was only the second in six games and eighth in 35 road outings this season for the Heat, who are in the thick of a tightly bunched playoff race. 
them back on track. Especially important are the Irish doubles teams, and Tholen and Faustmann have been coming on strong lately. Tholen has a 12-9 record this year in dou­bles, but even if that doesn't stand out, considering the competition she has faced at first doubles, it is a very re­spectable record. 
"We both thought we would pull off some big upsets at the beginning of the season," said Tholen. "We came close in a couple of matches and we've currently won three in a row. We've a good doubles team, and I think we just need some more experience." 
As the Irish seek to finish up this season on a strong note, and look to next year deter­mined to get back where they The eight road victories is a record for the four-year franchise. 
Seikaly had 19 points and 19 rebounds for Miami. 
Scott Brooks had 19 points and a team-record five 3-point­ers for the Timberwolves, whose last victory came Feb. 26 against Dallas. 
Pacers 131, Bullets 1 09 
LANDOVER, Md. -Reggie Miller scored 27 of his 36 points in the first half as Indiana Pacers handed Washington its sixth consecutive loss. 
The Pacers shot 6 7 percent from the field in the first half while building a 70-53 lead. Miller was 11-for-13, including all four of his 3-point attempts, and finished 14-for-18 overall and 5-for-5 from 3-point range. 
feel they belong, at the upper echelons of collegiate tennis, Lisa Tholen's contribntions will be a tremendous benefit to the team. 
"Everybody has gained a lot of respect for Lisa because she has been so solid. I've had comments from other coaches who thought she has made a big jump, and she has. We may play her higher before the year is over. She's playing four now, but there's no reason she may not end up playing two or three. ~he can adjust real well," said Louderback. 
So when the Irish make their move in the world of tennis in the next couple years, look for Tholen to be right at the fore­front. 
''I'll definitely be playing for two more years," she said. "Count on it." 

The Notre Datne Finance Club 
presents 
The 34th Annual Finance Forum 
/ 

Featuring Speakers: 
Mark Van Grinsven and Philip DelaneyJr. 
from the Northern Trust Company 
Thursday 7p.m. University Club Auditorium 
Refreshments served afterward~ 

Thursday, March 26, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
I $1.00 OFF 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong sandwich. Limit five footlong
I 
sandwiches per order.
I 
I Not good wrth any other discount or offer. Good only at participating locations.I Expires May31,1992 
I I I 

~-~l 
The Observer I 
1
Seniors I 
J
continued from page 20 

l 
"Coach MacLeod wants us to shoot the three," said Sweet. "It opens up the inside game and lets Phonz get loose." 
Bennett helped Ellis' stats as well, feeding his fellow senior assist after assist on his way to collecting a career-high 13 feeds. And with his assist num­bers last night, Bennett put an exclamation point on his move to the point after three years at shooting guard. 
"Everyone stepped it up," said Bennett. "It was my job to run the offense and get the guys in the right place." 
The Irish were undoubtedly in the right place last night, as another raucous JACC crowd helped the team demoralize the Jaspers. 
"I thought it was all over, as far as the JACC was concerned, against Xavier (in the regular­season finale)," said Ellis. "But to have not one, but three games in a row here is awe­some." 
Granted a three-game homestand by unwittingly generous NIT schedulers, the Irish seniors have convincingly won three of the five games needed to claim the NIT crown. 
"I felt like I slighted the younger guys because I really wanted to get them to the NCAA," said Ellis. "I had a long, hard talk with myself and decided we were going to win the NIT." 
If they can perform in New York as they have at home, Notre Dame's senior foursome could lead the Irish to that goal. 


I $1.99 SPECIAL I 
I Buy one regular footlong and large I I Coca-Cola at regular price, get a Isecond regular footlong of equal orI lesser value for only $1.99. I 
I 
I 
Double meats nO! included. Not goodI with any other discount or ofler. Good only at participating locations. Expires May 31.1992 
I I 


You deserve better 
ALUMNI ~;ENIOR CLUB'S 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
Ill ALUMNI 
MWM~--!IlRSB-':'1::t SENIOR 
,~!:CLUB 
Every Friday 12-2 
liD required 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, March 26, 1992 
-~­
Golf season continues as men head to Evansville 
By MIKE HOBBES and consistency in the players' Sports Writer performance. "We looking to improve upon 
The Notre Dame men's golf our past outing and allow for team is headed to Evansville some of the younger players to this Friday, Saturday and step up to the test," said Long. Sunday to compete in the Leading the way will be three Evansville Intercollegiate time monogram winner and 
Tournament. captain of the team Mike 
Going into their second tour­O'Connell of Quincy, IL. Mike nament of the spring campaign, admits to having a subpar per­everyone involved is optimistic formance in the fall due to per­about the chance to play. For sonal problems, but states that this trip, the team will travel his goal is to provide leadership with six players instead of the and unity amongst the team. regular five to allow for more "I had some problems in the players to get exposure and an fall that hindered my ability, but attempt to solidify the fifth and I'm getting back to playing well sixth spots on the roster. and I want to bring us closer Making the trip are seniors together as a team," admits Mike O'Connell and Mike O'Connell. "In the four years Crisanti; juniors Chris Dayton that I have been here, this is the and Joe Dennen; sophomore strongest team that I've been a Todd Klem and freshman Cole part of. My goal is to win a Hanson. tournament this spring and the 
Head coach George Thomas team thinks we can do it." and assistant coach Dave Long Assisting Mike O'Connell in are looking for improvement leading the team will be fellow 
Irish All-Conference divers and swimmers announced 
Observer Staff Report spectively. Broderick's time of 
1:51.87 and Nathe's time of 
Four swimmers and a diver 45.76 qualified them for the from Notre Dame have been honor. named to the 1991-92 Eastern Intercollegiate All-Conference For the women's team two Team. swimmers were honored. 
Sean Hyer was earned a spot Freshman Cara Garvey was se­on the team for the three-meter lected for her time of 58.38 in dive, while Ed Broderick and the 100 backstroke event while David Nathe were selected on senior Becky Wood's time of the basis of their performances 1:05.79 in the 100 breaststroke in the 200 individual medley race qualified her for the all­and the 100 freestyle event re-conference team. 
No one faces cancer alone. .AMERICAN CANCER SOCIElY' 
Tbe OIBdal Claa ol ~992
I;-=:·;:;::-LIDft ~81 
...Clrllllc wD .....GIM Tl'llllli Llltll'ill CHIP 111111'111111111111 1111111 IIIII a1111111111111111 P'lfanalll,... •*Willi,...-·11:11111 • 1 M111111 11111111: lllll'cll 2m......IN. ~ 11:001m .. 1:00111 
,...IIIIIDIIIII MIII.OO
tli.DOPW .... 
4WIIkllll.,y 



the game," commented O'Connell. 
Juniors Chris Dayton and Joe Dennen are also expected to contribute. Dayton is coming ofT a strong fall performance, having played consistently throughout. Dennen, having had a similar fall to O'Connell, is showing a lot of potential and displays an increased attitude and enjoyment. 
Todd Klem is looking to per­
form after not seeing action
Mike O'Connell 
since his freshman year. He too 
senior and two time monogram 
wants to play and is eager to go
winner Mike Crisanti of Elgin, 
to Evansville after his previous
IL. Crisanti has also seen action 
outing last year. 

in his three prior years and is 
New to the tournament scene 
figured to contribute to the 
is freshman Cole Hanson. 

success of the team. 
"Cole and Todd are relatively
"Mike has improved solidly 
new and are being given the 
and has a good attitude toward 
chance to test the water at the 
fifth and sixth spots, so that we can find people to play at those positions," added Long. 
Since the entrance of coaches Thomas and Long, there has been a vast improvement in the quality of play, with every year's stroke average decreasing. In his first year as head coach, Thomas coached the team to a Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference championship. For his achievements, he was named Coach of the Conference and Coach of the Year. 
"It's great that six guys are getting exposure this weekend. We now have just about every­one with some experience and are striving towards getting at least four guys with good scores and having fun in the process," said O'Connell. 

SESQtrrCENTE~STUDENT 
ACTIVITIES COMMI'I.IEE 
presents 

Father ..Monk•• Malloy 
••opportunities, Challenges and Roadblocks... a Look at the Future.. 
An informal discussion with Notre Dame President Edward Malloy 
Thursday, March ~6 7:00PM Hesburgh Peace Institute Auditorium 
FREE ADMISSION 
Guatemalan 
McDOnald's
Imports 

McDonald's® announces••• • I® 
-New shipment 
from Guatemala -Bargain corner -Silk clothing 
from india 
-Rame for chance to win $60 in merchandise 
(Proceeds go to Cooperative/Clinic in Metzecal, Guatemala) 
Rm I08 Lafortune 
Big Mac<!> Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg Hash Browns Orange Juice Apple Juice Muffins Cookies 
Mon-Sat March 23-28 
1\/\ld'S
'Mcion~®
10-5 pm 

Friday & Saturday ONLY Midnight -2:00 a.m. 
LATE NIGHT DRIVE-THRU 
Only at McDonald's® Restaurant 1 51 9 N. Ironwood, South Bend 
Big Mac<!> Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg Hash Browns Orange Juice Apple Juice Muffins Cookies 


. ------------------------------------------------------·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Today 

Thursday, March 26, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CRO~;SWORD 
ANoTHfR LAT~ NIUHT OF LINT PACKINU, fOI<.,THf B£LL'(~trf1DN fL\/€S 
----------~ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES  I \R\1:.\) \0, MISS W~t.l.'rlOoD, BVT "illE 8001<. 1\JBL\S\-\E.R DID~'\ V5E 111£ PROPER PR\~T 1=\~f>..TNt..  
THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  
~~t~~~~~i~~~;;1111,,.--------------------, 19 K~pt 


t-4EEOLES'S ltl SA'{, W~t.l'l I PICKI:.D \JP 11-\t. ~\(, f>..\l.. 1\-\£. LE.TI'tR':. SL\D OIT lt\E PAGES f.-t-10 FE.\..L 0~ 1\-\E tLOOR IN f... 1-\t.f>..P Ot G\lsgE.R\'5\\ . 
~\vL 
/.. ­
SPIN 
I T\-\\t-11<. \'<\'( £XC\JSES t{'i:.ED \0 Bt: LESS 
EXT£.1-WORt>..~t.OIJS. 

JOHN MONKS 
ACROSS 

1 In couples 
7 Minnesota ­11 0'"egon seaport 13 M~tador's cape 15 DJrrect speech 
( l wds.) 18 o~face 
gJing 
~ 
20 Onega's neighbor21 General Bradley , 23 Fits of anger 24 Barracuda 
the furnace 
Rhino recitals 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Hamburgers Pizza Deluxe 
Baked Sole French Fried 
Manicotti Clams 
Oven Broiled Chicken 

,., -
3_•
_r-•-·. .
/¥. .I~ w .._ 

"""' , _ ...-_.r
i"=-.G 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 

9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Book Sale. Sponsored by Hesburgh Ubrary. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. 
11:30 a.m. Hospitality Luncheon. "Holy Family Catholic Worker House." Sponsored by World Peace Action Group. Center for Social Concerns. 
4 p.m. Poetry Reading, "Poems of Peace and War," Myra Shapiro, poet and author. Sponsored by Kroc Institute for International Studies and Department of English. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. 

sleeping with 
the enemy 
"A TERRIFYINGLY GOOD ROMANTIC THRILLER!" 
PAT COLLINS, WWDR·TV, NEW YORK 
Thursday, March 27 

25 Begin to take 
effect (2 wds.) 27 "-a deal!" 28 Valletta is its 
capital
29 Removes from office 2 Having a hangdog 38 ----O'Hara 31 ~ost recent look 39 Certain exam 32 Fatriot James -3 Repeat 41 African capital 33 5inger Vikki -4 Korean soldier 43 "-Last Case" 34 [•egraded 5 Goddess of discord 45 Singer Simon 37 ~ummer business 6 Forces 46 Believe it ­
( 2 wds.) 7 Pecuniary resources 50 Beginning for lung40 Hills in Le Havre 8 High school math 53 Be unwell 41 ·-banana (abbr.) 54----Filippo Lippi 42 ~;tyle of 9 Part of AT&T, for 55 North Caucasian 
painting (2 wds.) short language 
Thursday 
tloon. "The Toyota Principle," Honorable Alex Kozinski, U.~;. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government. Law School Courtroom. 
ll p.m. "Jews and Palestinians: A Human Rights Per­sp·~ctive on the Bush Policy," John Borman, Esq., Member of the Minnesota Lawyers International Human Rights Committee. Sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Ri1~hts. Room 110, Law School Courtroom. .... 
4:30 p.m. "Recovering the Dream: a Strategy for Providing Mfordable Housing," Steven G. Thomas, senior vice president ar.d chief operating officer, Westminster Corporation. Sponsored by Hesburgh Program In Public Service. Center for Social Concerns All-Purpose Room. 
·r p.m. "The Formation of Party Systems and the Con­solidation of Democracy in East Central Europe," Herber Kitschelt, Professor of Comparative Politics at Duke Uni­versity. Sponsored by Kellog Institute. C-103 Hesburgh Cfnter for International Studies. 
7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion. "Safety on Campus: Policies and Procedures Concerning Rape and Harassment," Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's College. 
JUNGLE ~EvER 
Friday, March 28 Saturday, March 29 
Cushing Auditorium Admission is $2 8 PM & 10:30 PM 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
44 Key-shaped 10 Paint with dots 45 Conversation piece 12 Terrific torments 47 Litigant 13 Athletic contests 48 Soviet division 14 Business resources 
49 "Peer gynt's" 16 Sketches dancing girl 17 Deal a blow (2 wds.)51 Postman's beat 22 Fencing maneuver (abbr.) 24 Persian governors
52 Bogart movie 26 Piano partsclassic (3 wds.) 28-Polo 56 What a majorette 30 Mr. Grauman 
does 31 Pertaining to the 57 Most cacophonous people58 Ki 11 33 Part of a column 59 Contaminates 34 Of prime importance 
(2 wds.)35 Beet soup (var.)
DOWN 

36 -Air Force 1 St. John's exile Base island 37 Column variety 
Sports 
page 20 

MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
Students should stay behind the basket 
Shhhhh. Ahhhhh! 
Clunk. 
Another missed free throw for a Notre 
Dame opponent. 
This is just one of the many inventive cheers created by the new and improved Notre Dame student section at the Joyce ACC. 
Throughout the college basketball season, many people, including myself, have complained of the lack of student enthusiasm at the men's basketball games. 
However, at the last two games at the JACC, a vocal, excited group of students turned out to support the Irish on their way to New York and the National Invitational Tournament semifinals. 
"The fans have really been a big help the past two games," Daimon Sweet commented. 
Painted faces, painted bodies, signs (before they were taken away by JACC security), whooshes after Notre Dame foul shots, it was a sight to behold. 
The .JACC was actually a great place to watch a college basketball game. There were two primary reasons for this. 
First, the fans really wanted to be there. They were not in attendance simply because they had season tickets or simply had nothing better to do for the night. 
Unlike the typical men's basketball crowd. they acted as if they really cared if the Irish won or lost. 
"I would rather see 6,000 people in the stands going crazy than the usual capacity crowd," LaPhonso Ellis said after last night's game. 
The second reason the fans have been a factor in the last two NIT games is that they were not stuck in the corner or up in the bleachers. They were down in the lower arena behind the basket. where almost every other student section in the country is located. 
In the future, the students should not be relegated the a corner or banished to the bleachers. They should be allowed to stay where thf,ly were for this week's NIT games. 
The four-dollar ticket price on all student tickets should also be left intact. 
To most people $90 might not be a lot of money, but it is a lot for a college student to shell out on basketball tickets. Considering that most students who work on-campus jobs students make less than that per week. 
The $35 million NBC contract should easily make up for any money which might be lost by reducing the price of basketball tickets. 
Thursday, March 26, 1992 

Hoops storms past Manhattan College 
74-58 win sends Irish to New York 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Start spreading the news... the Irish are going to New York. 
The Manhattan Jaspers' season came crashing down on them last night, literally. Eight Notre Dame dunks and a 69 percent shooting performance in the second half enabled the Irish to advance to National Invitational Tournament semifinals with a 74-58 victory. 
The thrashing was led by Notre Dame's "Big Three." Daimon Sweet set a school record with six three-pointers on the way to a 22 point night, LaPhonso Ellis netted 25 points and grabbed 17 rebounds and Elmer Bennett had career-highs with 13 assists and six steals, to go along with his 10 points. 
"This was a great game for us," Bennett said. "The entire team played very well, and the seniors stepped their game up a notch." 
Early in the game the stubborn Manhattan defense kept Notre Dame out of synch offensively, and the Jaspers jumped out to a 15-10 lead at 
9:42 when Keith Bullock stole a Notre Dame pass and went in all alone for a layup. 
"It took us a while to get going. They (Manhattan) pressured the ball well and got in our passing lanes," explained Billy Taylor, who chipped in nine points. 
"We knew if we kept executing well offensively, the shots would start to drop. It was a matter of using ball fakes and being careful with our passes." 
With 6:50 left in the half and the Irish trailing 16-14, Brooks Boyer replaced Sweet, who at the time was 0­for-5 from the field. 
Sweet looked like a new man when he returned 18 seconds later, as he sunk three consecutive treys to ignite Notre Dame on a 17-9 run to close the half. 
"He (Sweet) was laboring out there. We just wanted to give him some time to recoup," Irish coach John MacLeod said. 
"I was happy to see him start cracking those threes. We needed some punch, nothing was happening. The threes opened things up for us and we were able to get a lead and from there it was off to the races." 
After the intermission, Notre Dame picked up were it left off, as the Irish opened the second half by going on an 8-2 run, which was capped by back-to­hack Ellis dunks. 
However, the most incredible slam of see JASPERS I page 15 


•NIT results-Florida v. Purdue page 13 


Seniors electrify JACC in last game 
By ROLANDO De AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
When crunch time came, the seniors 
were ready. 
Playing in the final home game of 
their careers, Notre Dame's senior 
quartet ate up the Manhattan Jaspers 
74-58 last night, setting records and 
dunking their way to the NIT final 
four. 
As has been typical of their careers 
at Notre Dame, three members of this 
year's class put up stellar numbers, 
while the fourth contributed quietly. 
"I wish we had more time with the 
seniors," said first-year Irish coach 
John MacLeod. "They have set a great 
example for the younger players. Early 
in the year, they did not quit." 
Last night, the Irish seniors enjoyed 
a microcosm of the 1991-92 season. 
Though Notre Dame shot terribly in 
the first half. the Irish seniors fought 
on, eventually leading the team a 
resounding victory in an electric Joyce 
ACC. 
Though senior center Keith Tower 
did not score, his defensive presence 
was one reason that Manhattan star 
Keith Bullock was held scoreless from 
the field early in the game. When Jon 
Ross stepped into the lineup after 
Tower's second foul, Manhattan ran 
off eight in a row. Manhattan had 
earned its biggest lead at 15-10, with 
Bullock knocking down three inside 
shots. 
While Tower was a quiet eontributor, 
LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet and 
Elmer Bennett made all kinds of noise . 
in last night's win. 
Ellis continued his dominance of the 
lane, rejecting Bullock's first two field­
goal attempts. After his four blocks 
tonight, the senior has totaled twelve 
over the last two games. The Irish 
power forward pulled down 17 
rebounds and scored 25 points, twelve 
of which came on Thunderdome­
shaking dunks. 
"He (Ellis) is a real beast from a 
planet far, far away," said Sweet. "He 
does so many good things for us. He is 
a Windex man. He cleans the glass for 
us." 
Sweet also rocked the JACC last 
night, turning on the outside shot 
which he has seemingly held in check 
all season. 
Sweet's school-record six three­
pointers electrified the JACC crowd, as 
the senior swingman continually 
popped from the open corner. 
see SENIORS/ page 17 

Tholen solid for tennis team 
By RICH SZABO Associate Sports Editor 
In the rollercoaster women's tennis season, with its share of triumphs and near-misses, the play of sophomore Lisa Tholen has been a steady and consistent plus for the team. 
Tholen is a mainstay in the Irish lineup, competing at fourth singles and first doubles, where she teams with fellow sophomore Christy Faustmann in battling against some of the top doubles tandems in the country. 
"Lisa's a great athlete. She's very talented, and has good range and foot speed. She can do anything, she volleys well, slices, hits groundstrokes. She's worked hard and hit a lot of balls," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. 
Tholen, from Wichita, Kansas, brings some impressive tennis 
credentials to Notre Dame, dating back to when she first started playing the game. 
"I played a lot of sports when I was young," she said, "and I decided I liked tennis more than any of the others." 
She started at the age of ten, and by 12 years of age was playing in tournaments. At Mt. Carmel High School she took home the state doubles championship as a freshman, and won the singles title her sophomore through senior years, while leading her team to undefeated seasons in her final two years. 
As a reward for her tremendous high school play, Lisa was named a finalist for Prince All-America honors, and to further boost her resume, was part of the doubles team that captured the Girls 16s 
see THOLEN I page 16 



