~----~----.,--------,--------­


THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



Class election results are finalized 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
The ticket led by Dan Con­nolly won last night's junior class election, taking a solid majority of votes in the two ticket race. 
The Connolly ticket received 61 percent of the votes, com­pared to 22 percent for the op­posing ticket led by Steve Tankovich. Most of the 17 per­cent of the write-in votes went to a ticket led by Matthew Dor­ing 
In the senior class election, Andrea Auyer's ticket came in first with 36 percent of the votes, while the ticket led by Joe Huston placed second with 31 percent. Pat Smyth's ticket took third place with 15 percent of the votes, while Tom Fellrath's ticket received 14 percent. Write-in candidates polled 4 percent. 

Since none of the senior class tickets received a majority of the vote, Auyer and Huston will compete in run-off election to­morrow. 
A run-off election will also determine next year's sopho-

Body 
to Lori 
Upon re­
day, the 
more class officers. In last night's balloting, tickets led by Andrea Ricker (with 35 percent of the vote) and Lisa Powers (25 percent) earned enough support to move on to tomorrow's second round. David Sheppard's ticket came in third with 18 percent, six votes ahead of the fourth place ticket led by Keary Husain. Write-in candidates received 4 percent of the votes. Junior class presi­dent-elect Connolly said his administration would perform the traditional class officer du­
see ELECTION I page 6 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's students visit the polls yesterday on their way into the dining hall. Election results saw the Carrara ticket win the run-off with 51 percent of the votes while the Rhattigan ticket tallied 45 percent. 
Rhattigan ticket appealed the committee's decision to the Elections Appeals Board. After examination, the Appeals Board overturned the committee's decision to disqualify the ticket. They instead issued a warning. 
The Appeals Board reached their decision based on a review of the Constitution which states that two poster violations are required for disqualification. 
•The committee also received a poster violation complaint against the Carrara ticket on Feb. 23. Based on the prece­dent set by the Appeals Board concerning the Rhattigan viola­tion, the committee issued a warning to the Carrara ticket. 
Although the Rhattigan ticket was disqualified and later re­instated, the student body was not alerted about the situation and the election proceeded as scheduled. 
"It was in the opinion of the Appeals Board that it (the vio­lation and appeal) would not affect the outcome of the elec­tion," Van Dersarl said. 
Rhattigan stated, however, "Because of the confusion about the incident, many students thought we had been dis­qualified and did not vote. This is a direct result of the poor judgement and lack of consis­tency of the committee and ad­visors throughout the entire election process." 
Van Dersarl stated that the fact that the Appeals Board met so late on Feb. 23 also in­terfered with the incident be­coming public knowledge. 
Upon receiving an appeal, the Appeals Board reviews all the previous information about the ticket and evaluates if the committee's decision is valid. 

The Appeals Board consists of Greer Gilliland, Athletic Commissioner, Ellen McQuillan, president of the Resident Hall Association, and Van Dersarl. To guard against any bias, all board members are seniors who have no interest in the election results. 
The committee decided that a postponement in the election was not warranted said Janet Anderson, Director of Student Activities. 
"The committee felt that it was in the best interest of the candidates and the election process if we could handle the appeal in a timely manner," she said. 

Carrara ticket wins SMC student body elections 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 

The ticket led by Tina Carrara won the run-off election for Saint Mary's student body of­fices yesterday. The officers for the 1992-93 school year are Tina Carrara, Student Body President; Mary Beth Wilkin­son, Vice President for Aca­demic Affairs; and Julie Mc­Cormick, Vice President for Student Activities, according to Elections Commissioner Lori Marucut. 
The Carrara ticket took 51 percent of the vote to win the election, while the ticket of Colleen Rhattigan for Student Body President, Ann Grant for Vice President of Academic Af­fairs, and Martha Marzolf for Vice President of Student Activi­ties took 45 percent, Marucut said. 
· The Carrara ticket is eager to institute their platform, said Vice President-elect of Aca­demic Affairs Mary Beth Wilkinson. 
"We're excited about the stu­dents' dedication to unifying Saint Mary's pursuit of intellec­tual interaction," she said. 

The run-off election also pro­duced the results of the elec­tions for the classes of 1993 and 1994, Marucut said. 
For the class of 1993, the ticket led by Julie Marsh won by capturing 46 percent of the vote while Megan Fannon's ticket took 44 percent of the vote. 

The election for the class of 1994 produced a winner in the ticket led by Elizabeth Petrovic, which took 4 7 percent. Kelly Collins' ticket took 40 percent, Marucut said. 
Investigation continues on hit-and-run car accident 
By Frank Rivera County prosecutor Michael Assistant News Editor Barnes will decide whether or not to bring formal charges 
Investigation continues into against the driver, according to the Feb. 16 hit-and-run acci­Feirrell. dent that injured two Saint The driver also faces possible Mary's sophomores. sanctions from the University 
St. Joseph County police are through the Office of Residence 
still gathering information from Life. a Notre Dame junior who "Any violation of Indiana laws contacted authorities claiming (by a student) comes under the involvement in the accident, but Office of Residence Life," said have set "no time table on the William Kirk, assistant vice investigation," said Sgt. Charles Feirrell. see HIT I page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
If Elvis returns,
Bush may be 


unemployed 

It just hit me the other day, the seventies are coming back like a bad dream. Everyone knows that sideburns are slowly making their way back into the American fashion scene, that Elvis has been 


spotted at Burger Kings John Rock everrwhere, and (heaven Asst.Photo Ed't
1

forbid) a  Democrat may  or  
end  up  in  the  White  
House.  

Since they're coming back, there is a lot that we, the "Republican because Mommy and Daddy voted for Reagan" generation, can learn from them while they are here. 
The only thing I vividly remember about the seventies is that President Carter often interrupted my afternoon cartoons to blab to the nation for a half hour. Since Reagan never talked to anyone except Nancy, I became Republican because Ron let me watch Scooby Doo and didn't bother my second-grade mind with worldly affairs. 
Unfortunately, when Jimmy Carter left office, America looked upon his administration as a failure because of his "mishandling" of the Iranian hostage crisis, "giving" the Panama Canal back to Panama, and wasting too much TV time. 
President Ronnie solved all our problems though. He introduced us to "Reaganomics," using money that didn't exist to buy really big bombs to "deter" our enemies. While Carter worked to achieve peace in the Middle East and worked to build homes for the lower classes in America, Reagan wasted billions in the fight against the Evil Empire. He rebuilt the military and concocted the "Star Wars" Strategic De­fense Initiative (with the help of George Lucas, no doubt). 
Reagan gave nice tax cuts to the rich, with the added money supposedly to "trickle down" to the lower classes. While the bucks gushed forth for the rich, the poor were lucky to receive the surplus cheese from the Dept. of Agriculture. We are still "better off now than we were (insert here X 4) years ago, right?" 
Granted, Heagan did restore pride in America. Vietnam, Watergate, an oil-starved, crippled economy, and the hostage crisis caused Americans to wonder about their greatness, but Heagan left no doubts and re-established America as the greatest country on Earth. Might is right, right? 
We now must pay for the eighties. Failed S&Ls, an over-funded military budget, and interest-payments on our billions of trillion dollar debt are worse for the nation than meatless baked ziti is for our bodies. 
So what can we learn from the seventies? First, America doesn't need to have a lot o bombs to be great; plowshares help feed people better than bombs. Second, we must be accountable for our actions; we need a leader who can try and stop the Godzilla deficit before it stomps the country to little tiny bits. Finally, we need to care for our people at home before we can blow money we don't even have for other countries. 
And if the seventies are coming back, I think I'll put on my bell-bottoms and plaid leisure suit, grow out the 'burns, and vote for a someone in touch with the true (non-partisan) needs o America and if that's a Democrat (heaven forbid), oh well. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
'\ ) ) • ~ ' \ f • I' ~ C • ,1 ~ '\ l I I
I ':II· I: I 
I J · ,i( 

Tuesday, February 25, 1992 
FORECAST: Highs in the upper 30s with a more than 
likely chance of rain and aslight 
chance of flurries 
TEMPERATliES:

70 
City H L Abuquerque 411 33 Atlanta 81 53 Austin n 54 Barcelona 68 49 Baton Rouge 19 82 Bisrnatd< 36 30 Boise 42 34 Boston 31 23 Colu!TOia.S.C. 71 43 Colurri>uo 44 32 Denver 47 32 Dao Molnao 51 41 Harrisburg 51 33 Helena 49 29 Helsinki 39 21 Honolulu 81 71 Indianapolis 42 31 Juneau 31 21 Lincoln 58 46 Madison 38 29 Mpis-St. Paul 34 24 NashviUe 52 39 Sacramento 69 53 Salt Lake City 40 32 South Bend 42 35 Tallahassee 80 54 Topeka 58 44 
Washington, D.C. 50 39

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Holocaust movie up for Oscar 
• BERLIN-The producers of "Europa, Europa," the Holocaust survival film that received a cold reception in Germany, said Thursday they were "happy and satisfied" with its Oscar nomination. But an early screenwriter for the film, which is based on a true story, said he was depressed by the campaign that won the film an Academy Award nomination for best screenplay adaptation, saying it was anti-German. 'The propaganda in the United States was terrible," said Paul Hengge, who withdrew his name from the film's credits because the story had been radically changed. 
NATIONAL Author's book a "bot" seller 
• NEW YORK -Nicholas Baker's newest book, "Vox," depicts a phone conversation between two yuppies who meet on an adult party line. The man recalls inviting a woman over so they can masturbate to a pornographic movie. The woman describes how she talks a date into massaging her with olive oil. Baker, a resident of Rochester, N.Y., has written three novels -all praised by critics and all uncommercial. In support of his book, Baker said, "I don't think sex sells because there are zillions of books out there that have sex in them. So it has to be that originality sells, originality about sex, and that seems perfectly reasonable to me because sex is an interesting subject." 
13-~r-old ~ens first book 
• P SBURG -Anika Thomas has written a book about the ghetto -about crack houses, crime and boarded-up buildings, about racism and despair. Thomas, 13, writes about the world she sees through the windows of her home. "I sometimes wish I could be like Dorothy in 'The Wizard of Oz.' I wish a tornado would grab mom and me up and blow us far away to 
OF INTEREST 
• 
NDCIBD Marketing Division Members will hold a brief meeting at 6 p.m. Remember to bring resumes or personal information for the database. 

• 
Women's Alliance will be meeting on Wednesday, February 26 at 9:30 p.m. in the SMC Center for Women's Alliance (in LeMans Vendoland). Call Teresa at 284-5236 or Karen at 237-1985 for more information. 


another land," she writes. "But if that tornado never comes to take us away ... then I will do it myself." Her 29-page work tells of children who taunt and beat her because her skin isn't as dark as theirs. 
lacocca loses likely successor 
• DETROIT -Lee Iacocca issued a statement saying Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Robert Miller, in­strumental in steering Chrysler from the brink of bankruptcy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, will resign Monday. Miller's resignation was accepted with great regret. "He joined Chrysler at a most difficult time and was a key player on a team that faced disaster but went on to enjoy great success," Iacocca said. Iacocca, who will be 68 this year, has said he will retire Dec. 31. Miller's decision leaves President Robert Lutz with the inside track to succeed lacocca as chairman next year. Miller, 50, will join an investment banking company. 
INDIANA 


• 
INDIANAPOL -Seven Roman Catholic churches would be closed if a reorganization plan by the Archdiocese of Indianapolis is adopted. The new plan also recommends clustering or consolidating 63 more churches in the southern half of Indiana. A declining number of priests was the main reason for the recommendations, said the Jeffrey Godecker, assistant chancellor for project implementation. "We're on a 20­year decline in the number of priests," Godecker said. "We anticipate that by 2010 we'll have about 90 priests available in the archdiocese. We now have 130, and in 1970 we had more than 220." 

• 
Notre Dame Accounting Association is looking for officers for next year.Anyone interested must submit a resume by Friday, February 28 to Patrick Murray, 283­4254. 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Production: Stet Goldman Cyn Ehrhardt News: Lauren Aquinq Steve Zavetoski Systems: Jon Halloran 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Sports: Mike Scrudato George Dohrmann Accent: Cheryl Moser VIewpoint: Cheryl Moser 

• 
In 1570: Pope Pius V excommunicated England's Queen Elizabeth I. 

• 
In 1793: The various department heads of the U.S. gov­ernment met with President Washington at his home for the first Cabinet meeting on record. 

• 
In 1913: The 16th Amendment to the United States Constitution, giving Congress the power to levy and collect in­come taxes, was declared in effect. 

• 
In 1986: President Ferdinand Marcos fled the Philippines after 20 years of rule in the wake of a tainted election; Corazon Aquino assumed the presidency. 


The Observer 

Tuesday, February 25, 1992 page 3 

Stallings, who was a Catholic priest for 15 years, was ex~ communicated from the Church 1990 renouncing all ties with local bishop and the Pope forming the independent Temple African American 1vaun•u" Congregation (AACC). visited Notre Dame to dis,; the need for Ka spiritUality responds to the profound 
and cultural needs of Americans." Stallings said he chose to ••mltFi: iiPHW the Church because it ·• allow African Americans a 
art of the ownership nor a voice in the decisions that would ..affect how they would 1"'"'""'~'"'" Catholicism and how 
•v"'"'"'·'.u would understand 
hour course stresses critical thinking, argument analy­sis and logical reasoning. Besides class­room time, our comprehensive LSAT course provides live tutorials, three diag­nostic exams, three practice exams, a com-puter-based tutorial program, homework materials that include releasedLSATs, and atoll-free Dial-A-Teacher line. Two-day clinics, which are included in Ronkin's LSAT Gold and Platinum Packages, are also available for an additional fee. 

227 US 31 North Suite 210 (Across from Knights Inn) South Bend 273-1866 -ru We'll Make Sure You Make It! 1 ONKII 
LSAT•GMAToGRE•MCAT EDUCAIIOIH GROUP 
Inaccurate info harms ND dept. 
By MEREDITH MCCUL­LOUGH Assistant News Editor 
The reputation of Notre Dame's management depart­ment has been marred by inac­curate information printed in the Student Government's re­cently released report to the Board of Trustees, according to Khalil Matta, acting chairman of the department. 
Statistics quoted in the report, "Back to Basics Undergraduate Education at a 'National Catholic Research University,"' concerning management faculty members and courses infer that professors in the department are not teaching full course loads, explained Matta. 
According to the report, the department employs 26 faculty members but offers only 21 classes. "These numbers clearly do not make sense," he said. 
Matta said that including the 23 Business Administration (BA) and 18 Master of Business (MBA) courses not mentioned in the report the department offers a total of 62 courses. 
Student Government admits that an error was made and plans to recalculate their fig­ures, said Karen Stohr, Com­mittee Chair and Student Body Chief of Staff. 
"We regret the error cer­tainly," said Stohr. 
Stohr attributed the mistake to the fact that committee members "experienced difficul­ties in coming up with statis­tics." 
Providing information con­cerning the number of faculty and courses in a particular de­partment is the responsibility of 
Ronkin' s New LSAT Premium Program: The Best Way To Prepare For The LSAT 
If you're one of the nation's 95,000 ap­• LSAT Gold Package plicants determined to get into an accred­In addition to the 40-hour LSAT course, ited law school, you know the competition Ronkin' s LSAT Gold Package includes is tough. Since there are our two-day LSAT Inten­only 44,000 openings, a 
sive-Study Clinics offered high score on the LSAT is immediately prior to LSAT crucial. examination dates. These 
That's why Ronkin cre­clinics concentrate on Logi­ated the LSAT Premium cal Reasoning and Logic Program which offers a Garnes. The Gold Package choice of three varied also includes our Law levels of assistance. School Success Program 
• LSA T Preparation which covers law school exam preparation, legal
Course 

writing, legal research, andUsing the most recently up­career planning. 
dated curriculum, our 40­

• LSAT Platinum Package This plan provides everything you'11 need to get into law school and to be a success. Enroll and you'll receive our LSAT Pre­paration Course, LSAT Intensive-Study Clinics, Law School Success Program, plus our Law School Selection and Appli­cation Assistance Programs. Soifyou'relookingforthebestinLSAT 
and law school preparation programs, call The Ronkin Educational Group. 
the Office of Institutional Research, according to s'tohr. While Stohr said she ap­proached the office for assis­tance in October 1990, she re­ceived "zero help." 
As a result, Stohr said that her committee members had to resort to "hand gathering" data from the department offices, the DART book, and the University Bulletin. 
"It was not an ideal method of collecting statistics," said Stohr. "Considering the circumstances, I think we did a pretty good job with the statistics ... (not including the 41 management courses) was an oversight." 
Matta said that he was also concerned that the number of management faculty members listed in the report was incor­rect. 
In a letter to committee members John Coffey, Student Body Treasurer and Teri Niederstadt, Assistant Student Body Treasurer, Matta wrote that the committee failed to in­clude a number of faculty members. 
Stohr and Coffee said they would look into the discrepancy. 
According to Stohr verifying the number of faculty members in a department can get "tricky" since it "depends how you define regular or non-regu­lar" and because "you can cal­culate statistics in so many dif­ferent ways." 
While Matta said that he fears that presenting the erroneous report to the Board of Trustees and printing a portion of the report in The Observer on February 17, "ruined (the management department's) reputation with the University," Stohr said "I really don't th~nk the department's reputation will be tainted." 
"The implication of the report was that (management) profes­sors were not teaching the full 2-2 class load," said Stohr. With the corrected statistics "it seems to be that for the most part they are." 
Matta said that it was "ironic" that his department had been used "to illustrate the 'fat' in the organization." 
"I have no problem with the general premise (that the committee presented)," he said. "In fact, they could use our data to support their argument." 
Coffey replied that he did not feel that the errors "detract from the report ... the whole premise was for the depart­ments to teach at full capacity. His department seems to be doing just that." 
"The Board of Trustees is not interested in the little statistics. It is more interested in the big picture," said Stohr. 
"There is a much bigger issue at stake," added Coffey. 
Matta and Coffey plan to meet Thursday, Feb. 27 to iron out further discrepancies. The two will come to an agreement on the correct statistics, they agreed. 
The committee will run a cor­rection with the proper revised numbers in The Observer once the matter is resolved, accord­ing to Stohr. 

The Observer is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Assistant Ad Design Manager 
Ad Designer 
Those interested should contact Kevin Hardman at 239-5303. 




The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editors Day Chief Business Editor Business Copy Editor News Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to David Kinney by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1992 

I Dogbook may be eliminated Senate explores 
l 
meal plan changes 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Eliminating the freshman 
register, more commonly re­
ferred to as the "dogbook," was 
discussed at last night's Board 
of Governance (BOG) meeting at 
Saint Mary's. 
Maureen Lowery raised the 
special order at the BOG meet­
ing to eliminate the dogbook 
which "does more harm than 
good in Saint Mary's/Notre 
Dame relations,"said Lowery. 
"I personally believe it is 
detrimental. and does not con­
note what image we want Saint 
Mary's to have," said Lowery. 
"I didn't get my social life 
through the dogbook." 
Lowery was asked to bring the proposal before BOG from the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Relations study group which is part of the Saint Mary's long­range planning committee-Pro­ject Towor. 
"If we don't decide to elimi­nate it (the dogbook) here, that doesn't mean it won't happen," said Lowery. "The study group has a lot of influence, they just wanted BOG's opinion." 
Eventually, board members voted 12-4 to keep the dogbook. 

"I can't think of what the so­cial life would be like here without the dogbook," said Ellen McQuillan, Residence Hall Association representative to BOG. "I think most people use the dogbook as a reference point." 
The Saint Mary's/Notre Dame relations long-range planning committee study group is dis­cussing long term goals, short term goals, and aspirations of ideal relations between SMC and NO. 
"I think that in the long run eliminating the dogbook will cause a bigger riff between the two schools," said Donielie Manor, off-campus chairperson to BOG. 
"I think we have to decide to what point are we going to separate the two schools," said Sharon Zint, coordinator of SURV 
"I think that it ( the lack of social life) is a band-aid cover­ing-up the problem," said Low­ery. "We need to find the prob­lem and I think establishing an identity for Saint Mary's will resolve it. In any relationship, we must first know who you are." 
A vote was also taken at the meeting on a proposal by Carrie Cummins, Alumnae Commis­sioner, to change the selection of the Alumnae Commissioner to allow the representative to take over on the Student-Alum­nae committee before BOG normally chooses its represen­tatives. The majority ruled to accept the proposal. 
RHA announced the sale of Top Ten Reasons to go to Saint Mary's T-shirts at the front desks of all dorms. 
SURV asked for a vote on the allocation of funds for the cen­ter, which will be voted upon next week. 
Also on the agenda for next week's meeting are three pro­posals: Turning the study lounge in the library to a 24­hour co-ed lounge; creation of a silent area in the library that would allow consumption of food and drink; a new sign to replace the current sign that exists on US 31. 
By MARY MURPHY 
News Writer 

Last night the Student Senate centered discussion on the Freshman Class Council elec­tion amendment, and spoke with the Student Activities Committee of the Colloquy 2000. 
The first discussion focused on a question and answer fo­rum between the Student Activities Subcommittee of Colloquy 2000. The Colloquy is Father Malloy's vehicle to determine future changes in the future at Notre Dame. There was a lot of input regarding improvement of LaFortune and altering the meal plan. 
Among the suggestions were the expansion of LaFortune, ei­ther in terms of the actual building or moving the office space to the Administration building and using the new­found open space for students instead. Senate members would also like to see a more diverse range of opportunities vices allowing them to eat at their convenience and to save money. 
The Freshman Class Council election amendment proposes that 
All halls will have an election process unless the dorm votes by majority. This proposal was developed with the intention of improving the selection process in large halls such as Grace, Planner and Morrissey. 
Brian Coghlan, who precipi­tated this amendment, attended the meeting along with mem­bers of the Council. He said that more students needed to know what the selection process was so that it would be fairer. After discussion from both the Senate and Council members, the amendment was passed unanimously. 
Several other topics were dis­cussed such as the Student Union Board funding of events, particularly the Howie Mandell concert and the Cult concert. 

offered by the student center. 
A proposal was passed to put Several students suggested a a question regarding the effec­debit card for the meal plan tiveness of the Judicial Board 
If you see news appening, call The 
that would enable one to pur­on the Student Senate Ballot. chase things from all food ser-

Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
• 

--=~~::::::::=-.. 



The Observer
MORffiU CTnTfR CKSR ll1f <fl R T s 

Sports Department
LIVE ON THE O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM STAGE! 
is now accepting applications for the 
THE FIRST NORTH AMERICAN TOUR BY ONE OF RUSSIA'S PREMIER DANCE COMPANIES 

following paid positions: 

THE M 0 S C 0 W 
Copy Editors 
and the following staff positions: 
DRAMATIC 

B A L L E T 
Sports Writers 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 7:30P.M. • TICKETS: $16/$12/$8 
To apply, submit a 1 page personal statement to 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office. ---!±!--­

Mike Scrudato by Fri., February 28 at 5 p.m.
located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. For Information SaintMary's Colleg~ and charge card orders. cal/219/284-4626. 
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 
For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 

SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
The Student Activities Office is 
PRICES: 

Black Classic* ................. $41.95+ TAx
hiring students to work in the 

Designer Tuxedos* ............. $56.00+ TAx Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAX

following areas: 

*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
Lafortune Building Man88ers 

PAYMENT:
<£>tepan Center Building Manager 

Partial or full payment may be made. 
Theodore s Qoom Monitors 

(A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, 
Games Qoom Attendants 

VISA, MasterCard, American Express, 
Discover and personal checks. 
Information Desk Attendants 
WHEN:
Disc Jockeys 

March 3rd, 4th and 5th, 1992. 
~und/Light Technicians 

(6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
Office Assistants 
WHERE: 

• LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Tuesday,
24-hr Lounge Monitor 

March 3rd and Wednesday, March 4th. 
• LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on
Programming Assistants 

Thursday, March 5th. 
Stop by the O'HARA LOUNGE, Ist Aoor Lafortune TU~DAY. FEBRUARY 25 between 4:30mn -5:30mn for more information and applications. Applications also available in Student Activities, 





"WE MAKE ~EON¥'"
THE EV •
315 Lafortune. 




Tuesday, February 25, 1992 

ELECTIONS 
Maine caucus 

results 

Presidential preferences of delegates to state conventions from precinct caucuses: 
645 of 865 precincts reporting, 97% 
Total delegates Percent ol delegates 
Tsongas,994 ==30% 
Brown, 987 29% 
Uncommltted,532 -16% Clinton, 515 -15% Harkin, 174 .5% Kerrey,105 13% 
Others, 33 11% Agran, 14 10% Cuomo•, 13 10"4 
·wnte-in candidate 
AP/Aian Baseden 
By LIBBY COSTELLO News Writer 
The restructuring of the stu­dent body government cabinet will include a new legal de­partment and an expanded public relations department, ac­cording to President-elect Greg Butrus. 
"The cabinet cannot be too rigid; it has to have organiza­tion yet be flexible," Butrus said. 
Responsibility will be divided into at least six different tiers in the new cabinet, explained Vice President-elect Molly O'Neill. 
Butrus and O'Neill plan on reinstating the legal department to address issues concerning du Lac, the crime task force, security for on-and off-campus students plus a bill of rights for 

By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
Religion plays a very signifi­cant role in the life of the African American. But the race's needs are not being met by the Roman Catholic Church, according to Bishop George Stallings, an excommunicated Catholic priest who formed the Imani Temple African American Catholic Congregation. 
Stallings, who lectured about "African Spirituality as a Vehi­cle for Liberation" Monday, said he formed the African American Catholic Congrega­tion (AACC) because of the "failure of Roman Catholicism to meet the needs of blacks." 
Formerly a priest of the Catholic Archdiocese of Wash­ington, D.C., Stallings was ex­communicated from the Catholic Church after forming the AACC in Washington and renouncing his union with his local bishop and the Pope. 
He subsequently formed AACC congregations in 
-------------------~--------~~--------------~~--------------------------­
The Observer page 5 


Butrus and O'Neill plan cabinet restructuring 
Baltimore, Richmond, Philadelphia and New Orleans. 
"Blacks had moved out of the structures and strictures of the Roman Catholic Church and needed a Catholic Church to fit their culture," he added, ex­plaining that he sees "religion as spirituality ... more than just simply a format." 
The Roman Catholic Church should try to transcend differ­ences in race and culture, Stallings said, but it does not. By creating the AACC and its Imani ("faith" in Swahili) Tem­ples, Stallings said he is "creating the necessary experi­ence for black Catholics." 
This experience is not to be found in the Roman Catholic Church because of the "incredible racism in it," said Stallings. The AACC and its Imani temples "will dismantle European Hegemony" in the Church, said Stallings. 
Of approximately 53 million Roman Catholics in America, only two million are African Americans, Stallings said. Of victims of date rape and other forms of sexual assault. 

The second tier of the cabinet concerns the Student Life. An emphasis on better communica­tion between the student body government and dorms, health and food services and other services affecting students is the goal of Student Life, ac­cording to Butrus and O'Neill. 
A third division of the cabinet focuses on the intellectual life of students. This includes the Back to Basics report, which monitors the undergraduate education system, Butrus said. 
"Members of the Board of Trustees said that it was the best report they had ever seen," he added. "We're working on another one now concerning fi­nancial aid," said Butrus. 
Involvement in the 1992 
Stallings talks on African spirituality 
53,000 priests, less than 300 are black. And of 1100 black parishes, less than 60 are pas­tored by black people. 
"Blacks don't gravitate in significant numbers to the Ro­man Catholic Church. Catholi­cism is not just Roman; it is not the only Catholicism that there is," Stallings said, adding that his church is Catholic also. 
Stallings' church does not have and "does not need the Pope's blessing to be Catholic," he said. "If we [blacks] had to wait for approbation, we would still be enslaved." 
The AACC is designed to be the the "path to salvation for blacks," Stallings said. "This new religious experience will get blacks to salvation faster. 
"In the midst of challenge and controversy, we will discover identity, have people look at things differently and realize a people crying out." 
His book, Confessions of a Renegade Priest, is scheduled for release soon. 
United States' presidential elec­tion, iceberg debates, and the search for different forms of communication between stu­dents and the administration will be a concern of this divi­sion, O'Neill said. 
The expansion of the Public Relations Department comes from need for students to know more about what their repre­sentatives are doing. "Students want to hear more about what's going on in student gov­ernment," Butrus added. 
The Student Government Re­ports Division will attempt to strengthen the relationship be­tween the administration and students,, Reports will be issued by the student government to the administration and, if nec­essary, to the Board of Trustees, Butrus explained. 
A Special Projects division will also be established. Com­missions formed in this de­partment cover new develop­ments, concerns and issues. Presently, the addition of a debit system to students' ID cards is being researched in this department. 
"Our hope is to involve as many people as efficiently pos­sible. We always need people to donate time," O'Neill said. 
"We encourage people not always involved in student gov­ernment to come and talk to us," Butrus added. 
The new government will continue to carry through projects started by Student Body President Joseph Blanco and Vice President Dave Flo­renzo. 
EPA questions better protection for minorities 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Is the culprit environmental racism or just poverty? The Environmen­tal Protection Agency is grap­pling over whether minorities are being unfairly victimized by pollution -and whether the agency should offer them spe­cial protection. 
A long-awaited report by an EPA task force said Monday that while there is "clear cause for concern" about the expo­sure of many minorities to pol­lution, its impact on the health of minorities is less clear. 
The report didn't single out race as a deciding factor and suggested that more often the issue may be one of poverty. While saying closer attention should be given to "environmental e·quity," the study maintained that the agency's risk-assessment pro­cedures "are not in themselves biased against certain income or racial groups." 
Nevertheless, the task force urged the EPA to pay closer at­tention to "environmental equity" in writing and enforcing pollution-control regulations. It also called for more studies to determine a clearer link -if 
there  is  one  - between  
pollution and race.  
A  community  that  is  
"surrounded  by  multiple  

sources of air pollution, waste treatment facilities and landfills and which has lead-based paint in the residences is clearly a community that faces higher than average potential envi­ronmental risks," said the re­port. 
EPA Administrator William Reilly had asked for the task force study amid growing con­cern among mainstream civil rights organizations about the relationship of race and pollu­tion. 

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1992 
Hit 
continued from page 1 
president for Residence Life, 
"and any of the sanctions found 
in du Lac are applicable." 
Kirk would not comment on 
this specific case. 
"Normally, when there is a 
violation of the Indiana state 
criminal code, "said Kirk, "it is 
handled by a disciplinary con­
ference. But, it depends upon 
the particular aspects of each 
individual case." 
Disciplinary cases referred to 
Residence Life are heard in a 
disciplinary conference or an 
administrative hearing, accord­
ing to du Lac. 
A disciplinary conference, at 
which the student meets with a 
member or members of Resi­
dence Life, is conducted to 
"investigate, discuss and re­
solve the alleged violation," ac­
cording to du l.ae. 
Sanetions, not including sus­pension or permanent dismissal may be issued. All such confer­ences are doeumented, and the record may be used "to estab­lish a student's behavioral his­tory at the University," as stated in du Lae. 
If the stud•mt is charged with violations which could result in disciplinary suspension or per­manent dismissal, the student may appear before a Residence Life panel in a closed adminis­trative hearing, according to du Lac. 
These hearings are then con­ducted before a panel of two or three Hesidence Life staff mem­bers and are closed "to all but principal parties, witnesses, peer student counsel, and ap­propriate residence hall staff," states du Lac. 
Aftllr such disciplinary cases are heard, Residence Life may 



Election 
continued from page 1 
-ties of "providing social activitills and service op­portunities." However, he said it will also attempt to "address campus-wide issues concerning student life," including the possibility of revising du Lac. "(Student life) issues are usually handled by HPC (Hall Presidents Council) and Student Senate, but we feel that the junior class office should have a role," Connolly said. 
Besides Connolly, the new of­ficers for the Class of 1994 are; Maura Cavanaugh (vice-presi­dent), David Gene! (secretary), and Megan Junius (treasurer). 
Balloting in tomorrow's run­off elections will take place in the residence halls from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Off-campus students will be able to vote in LaFor­tune from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
BURN 



VIC'I'IM. 

....:J.l 
ONLY YOU CAN PA!VENT FOREST FIRES u 


decide on one of several sanc­tions to be brought against the student. 
Actions that may be made by Residence Life, according to du Lac, include: 
•no 
violation may be cited and no action will be taken; 

•a 
verbal or written warning may be issued; 

•a 
monetary fine may be assessed; 

•a 
ban may be imposed from a specific area of campus; 

•the 
student may lose a spe­cific privilege; 

•a 
"constructive service activ­ity" may be required to be per­formed; 

•the 
student may be forced to transfer from or lose campus residence; 

•the 
student may face disci­plinary probation; 

•the 
student may face sus­pension, with an opportunity to apply for readmission; or 

•the 
student may face perma­nent dismissal. 


The University, through Hesi­dence Life, however, "reserves the right to summarily suspend any student charged with a felony during his or her crimi­nal proceedings," states du Lac. "Should any criminal proceed­ing result in a felony conviction, the University may summarily dismiss the convicted student." 
Pope John Paul II praises Guinea's move away from tyranny 
CONAKRY, Guinea (AP) ­Pope John Paul II on Monday urged African nations to re­spond to the needs of their people as he visited a country emerging from one of the con~ tinent's most brutal dictator­ships. 
The pope gave his blessing to the military government's cau­tious moves toward freedom, decrying that the previous Marxist regime had turned this West African country into a "valley of tears." 
On the last leg of a tour of three largely Muslim West African nations, John Paul called on the countries of the continent to put internal con­flicts behind them and create the conditions for growth and prosperity. 
Soldiers armed with auto­matic weapons lined the dusty streets of this rundown capital of 700,000 people as the pope arrived after a 30-minute flight from Gambia. 
Tens of thousands stood un· der a sweltering sun as the pope drove by the city's Grand Mosque and the towering Palace of Culture built by the Chinese under the previous Marxist regime. 

Only nine days ago, student demonstrators reportedly am­bushed the car of the military president, Gen. Lansana Conte, and threw a firebomb. He nar­rowly escaped. 
When the pope led a youth rally Monday afternoon, stu· dents held up banners reading "Without Justice, No Peace," and "No Soldiers on Campus, Free Our Imprisoned Com­rades." Soldiers at the scene did not intervene. 
Students have been demon­strating for months, seeking greater job opportunities, more scholarship money and more democracy in the country. 
In his arrival remarks, the pope hailed the president's "courageous work" in creating "room for freedom" after the brutal repression by President Sekou Toure, who ruled Guinea from its independence from France in 1958 to his death in 1985. 
More than 50,000 people were killed under the Marxist president's rule. Hundreds of thousands emigrated, and the Catholic Church was severely repressed, its property seized and its leading bishop jailed for nearly 1 0 years. 
Conte, who took power after Sekou Toure's death, has promised to return the gov­ernment to civilians, but only after a five-year transition pe­riod. 
The president himself has been accused of detaining with­out trial and torturing sus­pected political opponents, ac­cording to Amnesty Interna­tional, although he's apparently considering legitimizing opposi­tion political parties. 
Papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro said John Paul was seeking to encourage this pro­cess, and was at the minimum satisfied with the improvements since the bloody Toure rule. 

To the otre Dame Community: 
At this time, I would like to share with you some thoughts about a 
sensitive yet important topic -rape and sex offenses. I am, by no means, an 
authority on this topic. But the serious nature of the crime necessitates that 
the issue as a whole be discussed in an open and public manner. This is an 
attempt to do just that. 
One of the goals of Student Government this past year has been to increase awareness about sex offenses. Last spring, I approached the administration about formally instituting a presentation about rape during the Freshman Orientation. While the administration was receptive to the idea, logistics and time constraints prevented it from coming into fruition at that time. Instead, Student Government, Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE), Sex Offense Services (SOS), and administrators worked with rectors and Hall Presidents to present workshops on rape in each of the residence halls. I thank all involved for their cooperation and efforts. Specifically, I thank Sheila Buckman for bringing this issue to the forefront. 
On December 4, 1991, Student Government sponsored a forum on sex offense in the Hesburgh Library. At that time, it was made explicit that the university does not make public notice of reports of date-rape. This policy is troubling and should be changed. A simple report of date-rape in the Observer, without identification of names, dates, places or times, serves both an educative and preventive function. It educates the community that 'date-rape does exist at Notre Dame, and it serves as a warning to the criminal. 
Student Government applauds the substantially increased attention given to rape and sex offense in duLac as a major improvement. But more improvement is necessary. I stand behind the Student Senate's resolution that calls on the administration to expand du Lac to include: specific definitions of rape and sexual assault, an outline of the security and administrative procedures regarding rape and sexual assault, and the legal rights of victims as well as the recommended rights specified by counseling centers such as the Women's Care Center and Sex Offense Services. 
The first steps have been taken to educate Notre Dame about rape and sex offense. We must now take the next steps that are more preventive, and more accommodating to the needs of victims. As Christians, we simply cannot tolerate an environment in which women must live like this . 
Sincerely, 
•

D~F~ 
~TUDENT 
David Florenzo 
GOVIINIIIJ 
Student Body Vice President 

'-­
Tuesday, February 25, 1992 The Observer page 7 




Bush pushed aid for Iraq long before invasion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush, overriding congres­sional objections and warnings from his own administration, signed an order allowing con­tinued aid to Iraq less than eight months before it invaded Kuwait, according to documents presented Monday. 
The order is one of three cases revealed by the House Banking Committee chairman, Rep. Henry Gonzalez, D-Texas, in which Bush intervened to ob­tain continued U.S. government credit guarantees to Iraq de­spite its shaky credit rating. 
"The policy toward Iraq is by far the most tragic foreign pol­icy episode of the Bush and Reagan administrations," Gon­zalez said in a statement. 
His committee has been in­vestigating how the Atlanta branch of an Italian bank fun­nelled millions of dollars in U.S.-guaranteed money to Iraq, and whether the money was used to help build Iraq's mili­tary might. 
Gonzalez contends that the United States was intent on bolstering Iraq at all costs against Iran, regarded at the time as a threat to American interests. "It is a policy that ended in war and the loss of many lives," he said. 
In addition to the loss in U.S. and Iraqi lives during the Gulf War, Gonzalez said, U.S. tax­payers have been burdened with $2 billion in debts on which Iraq defaulted after its 


Notre Dame seniors Lisa Bernstein and John Plumb learn sign language from their instructor Libby Christianson (left) in an Introduction to American Sign Language class at Saint Mary's. 

invasion of Kuwait. 1989, but held off on another installment of $500 million after 
U.S. credit guarantees to Iraq being told of suspicions that began in 1983, after the Reagan Iraq may have diverted earlier administration removed it from guaranteed loans to its weapons a list of countries believed to program, congressional sources support terrorism. said last year. 
That opened the way for Iraq The sources said the first in­to buy American agricultural stallment was approved despite commodities and technology, warnings from government an­guaranteed by two government alysts that Iraq was a bad credit agencies -the Export-Import risk because it was heavily in Bank and the Commodity Credit debt from its eight-year war Corporation. The credits en­with Iran. · abled U.S. farmers to sell Iraq $5 billion in farm goods over six The farm credits for Baghdad years. were approved after Bush 
signed secret National Security 
Agriculture Department offi­Decision 26 ordering closer ties cials approved $500 million in with Iraq, the Los Angeles farm credits to Iraq in the fall of Times reported Sunday. 
White House spokeswoman Judy Smith declined to com­ment on the report Sunday. 
After Bush signed the order in October 1989, Secretary of State James Baker Ill inter­vened with Agriculture Secre­tary Clayton Yeutter to drop the Agriculture Department's opposition to the food credits, the Times reported. 
As late as July 1990, one month before Iraqi troops en­tered Kuwait, officials at the National Security Council and State Department urged deliv­ery of the remaining $500 mil­lion in credits, the newspaper said. 
Supreme Court rejects pleas to permit news coverage on abortion 
., 






cram 
.. Your Own
~ 
1'"fJ ~,.;.~ 
OmeUr
'(~J, \"'~""'~
'J'l. '((II
0~ I 10'~ .-···-,
""( .-··::· 
~e yowjcworiu omefet mruit to ordtr wtm 2jrtS~

wui your cfW(a ifomefetjl / s 
•

Servai wttk lwfi browns Mi Ct tcttSred 'E"3lZsli nt4m 
~2.15 
Limita{ Tum 5E.-eciaC rru cue_ 1c~ee with tht ~chrut 1an onuUt"' 
GREENFIELDS CAFE 
For {njor~ or rtStYvc«:Wns, cc;J[ lj9-8'57J 
• 
rauur~ Fresh Brewed SE!'Udt:t eo§us,
• 
"EsJ!!lSSO cvu{ ~{no 
•• 
Loccu:eci an tht Hesbur9fi Pccue Cmur-Overfoo~ the qoifcourse
•-­
• 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) -The Supreme Court heard argu­ments in private Monday about a 14-year-old girl who is barred from obtaining an abortion abroad, rejecting pleas to permit news coverage of the highly charged case, 
Arguments were scheduled to continue Thesday, with a ruling expected by week's end. 
The girl's family is appealing a High Court order barring her from leaving the country for Britain to escape Ireland's abortion law, the most restric­tive in Europe. The teenager says she was raped by a friend's father. 
In a 1983 referendum, Irish voters decided 2-1 to amend the constitution to affirm the right to life of the unborn. 
The recent case has revived the debate, and opposition parties have called for a new referendum -an option the government badly wants to 
., 
avoid because of the divisive­ness of the last. 
"We're going to look at every other option between what we hear from the Supreme Court and indeed the possibility of a referendum -which I would not rule out, but nevertheless I look on it as a last resort," Prime Minister Albert Reynolds said Monday. 
Reynolds has not said how he hopes the Supreme Court will rule, but has said that the issue is freedom of travel, not free­dom to have abortions. 
"We have a constitutional law in place, agreed to by the peo­ple, which bans abortion in Ire­land, so how can that be the is­sue? The issue is that the family was prevented from going to England for an abortion," Reynolds said on Thursday. 
The government is paying the family's legal costs for the ap­peal, and John Rogers, a former attorney general, represented her before the Supreme Court. 
On Monday, Chief Justice Thomas Finlay rejected an ap­plication by RTE, the national broadcasting service, that it be allowed to report on the pro­ceedings without identifying the family. 
Earlier, lawyers for three na­tional newspapers sought permission from the court to cover arguments in the case, which they said was of "unprecedented public interest and of acute private and public importance." 
The court, however, limited the proceedings to parties di­rectly involved in the case, listed as "the attorney general versus X." 





The Observer
• 

Photography Department 
• 
is now accepting applications for the 
following paid staff positions:
• 
Assistant Photography Editor 
Accent Photography Editor 

Sports Photography Editor 
• 
To apply, submit a2 page personal statement to Marguerite Schropp by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 






Grace (negative) vs. Alumni (affirmative) --120 Hayes-Healy 
St. Ed·s (negative) vs. O.C. (affirmative) --Montgomery Room, LaFortune 




TUESDAY, 9:00 pm 


___________.. 

The Observer 

Tuesday, February 25, 1992 
Aquino struggles for democracy 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­Six years after Corazon Aquino took office, she is struggling to prevent figures from the gov­ernment she ousted from re­capturing power through the democratic means she helped restore. 
On Feb. 25, 1986, the widow of slain opposition leader Be­nigno "Ninoy" Aquino was swept into power in a massive uprising that toppled President Ferdinand Marcos and drove him into exile, where he died three years later. 
On Tuesday, the government plans a mass rally to commem­orate what is known here as the "EDSA Revolution," named for the street where hundreds of thousands turned out in 1986 to defy Marcos' troops. 
The peaceful uprising fore­shadowed the wave of democ­racy that swept the world, culminating in the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
But in the Philippines, the spirit of "people power" waned, battered by seven right-wing coup attempts, a persistent Marxist insurgency, economic decline and failure to implement broad reforms. 
"The economic and social problems that the late President Marcos left behind continue to 
haunt  us,"  columnist  Raul  
Palabrica  wrote  in  the  
Philippine Daily Inquirer.  

The clearest sign of the con­fused Aquino legacy is the fact that half the eight candidates in the May 11 presidential election were once allied with Marcos. They include Marcos' widow, Imelda; Aquino's estranged cousin Eduardo "Danding" Co­juangco; and Sen. Joseph Estrada, who was fired by Aquino as mayor of suburban San Juan in 1986. 
Aquino's own candidate, former Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos, served as Marcos' po­lice commander during eight years of martial law, breaking with his second cousin only in the final weeks of Marcos' 20­year rule. 
Without reliable public opin­ion surveys, it is difficult to tell which candidates are the strongest. 
Sonogram expert defends fertility doctor 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. (AP) ­Five patients of a doctor ac­cused of fraud were pregnant when he said they were, con­trary to prosecutors' con­tentions, another doctor testi­fied Monday. 
However, the women may well have been less far along in their pregnancies than Dr. Cecil Jacobson said, testified Dr. Stu­art Campbell, a sonogram ex­pert from London. Campbell examined about 180 pictures from ultrasound examinations conducted by Jacobson. 
"This indictment charges that these women were not pregnant at all, ever," said defense attorney James Tate. 
"Was Christine Maimone pregnant or not?" Tate said. 
"Yes, she was pregnant -no question about it," said Camp­bell, testifying for the defense. 
In four other cases, Campbell also said he had determined that the patients were preg­nant. 
However, he said Jacobson could not have seen the fetal development patient Deborah Gregory testified the doctor had described in a sonogram performed on her. 
Campbell testified as the trial for Jacobson, a former Wash­ington area fertility specialist accused of fathering as many as 75 of his patients' children, began its third week in U.S. District Court. 
Jacobson is charged with 52 counts of fraud and perjury al­leging he used his own sperm to inseminate patients without their knowledge and used hor­mone injections to convince some women they were preg­nant when they weren't. 
Prosecutors allege several women who believed they were pregnant were later told by Ja­cobson they had miscarried and the fetuses had been reab­sorbed into their bodies when in fact they were never preg­nant. 
But under questioning by de­fense lawyer Tate, Campbell told jurors Monday he could identify pregnancies on the sonograms of some of the women. All of them were rela­tively early-stage pregnancies, he said. 
Campbell also said he believed a fetus could be reabsorbed into a woman's body after a miscarriage as Jacobson has contended. Prosecutors contend such a happening was unlikely, and doctors testifying earlier at the trial agreed. 
Prosecutor David Barger asked Campbell to examine an ultrasound photograph of pa­tient Gregory, who testified Ja­cobson had told her she was 16 to 17 weeks into her pregnancy at the time. 
"Assume that Deborah Gre­gory testified that JacobsoP +~ld her that's a picture of junior sucking his thumb.... Does the sonogram support that?" Barger asked. 
tl/~"4, .J+ti ~<Q ~~~ 
! ~<( v~' ~~~~Yir~. 



$ ~~~~~'~;~f~~~' 

Come enjoy Mardi Gras iik6 never l}before--St. Maryls style. On Thursday, February 27th, their own Haggar College Center will be filled with live music, games, and prizes including the Grand Prize Drawing for an $150 airline voucher and a portable stereo (wI cd player). So stop by between 7:30 
p.m. and 10:00 p.m. and donlt miss out on the best party north of New Orleans. ~ 
page9 



Happy 21st Birthday 
Margaret Tortorella 
Love, Mom, Dad, Rob, & Kris 



The Observer 
Accent Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
Assistant Accent Editors Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, February 25, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....•...........••.•.•• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ...........•.••... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •.•••......••••David Dieteman Production Manager .....•..•.•• Jay Colucci Accent Editor •.......••....•..•.. John O'Brien Systems Manager ......•.....•... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ...............•..... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame's Architecture not only a Classical school 
We've come a long way, baby 
There's a human-fixer-upper 
in town called Kingwood Hospi­
tal. 
This February, they've been 
having community education 
programs. They're for the 
community. 
If you have a moment, take a 
look at the some of the pro­
grams for human-fixing-upping 
they've been performing this 
month: 
• 
"Anger Assessments for Women Living in Stressful Situ­ations." 

• 
"Substance Abuse: A Family Issue." 

• 
"Attention Deficit Hyperac­tivity Disorder Screening for Children and Teens." 

• 
"Adult Survivors of Sexual Abuse." 

• 
"Asserting Yourself in Diffi­cult Situations." 


These community programs reflect the degree and variety of human ills we have in our own humble little era. 
Just as, in a less metallic space and time, a community might rely on the local-yocal witch-doctor to cure the ills abounding. 
A witch doctor might have had to take on, soul first, snake bites, bruises, burns, sprains and fevers. 
It was an operation composed of beating drums, shaking rat­tles, incantations and prayers pouring from the good doctor's lips-a spiritual battle. 
Our society doesn't hire doc­tors who use prayers and charms in place of Advil. And we reserve shaking rattles and beating drums for small 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Dear Editor: 
It is always rewarding to the faculty of a school when stu­dents take an active interest in the direction of their program. It reflects both the students' in­volvement in and comprehen­sion of their chosen discipline, and the faculty's receptive atti­tude to their concerns. 
Yet, I find it disturbing when one voices criticism and con­cerns, eluding in the process (intentionally or unintention­ally). some established facts related to the "other." I am referring to the letter to the editors of The Observer entitled "ND Architecture not broad enough" (Feb. 21,1992 issue). 
A number of us faculty mem­bers felt "excluded" from the letter. Either the authors failed to include us in their observa­tions or they mistakenly identi­fied us as "Classicists." 
Some facts for the record. The letter referred to one course on Frank Lloyd Wright but ne­glected to mention the course on Modern Italian Architecture. Moreover, the learning process goes beyond the classroom to other activities taking place within the program. 
The School's 1991-1992 lec­ture series included Michael Hotundi (a Deconstructivist by practice). Dirk Lohan (a Modernist by education and practice). Sidney Robinson (a specialist in Organic Architecture), and Kenneth Frampton (the leading figure in history and theory of Modern Architecture and Criticism). 
I announced a thesis studio for 
Fall 1992, with the Tall Building 
being the theme (a very anti­
classical building type). Three 
students out of a class of forty 
signed up. I guess most of them 
are enjoying the projects they 
are exposed to. 

Most students expressed in­terest working with me, but on other themes. In my two semesters at Notre Dame, I have only given one lecture on Classical Architecture. You have yet to convince me that that "slip" makes me a classicist. 
Yes, the foundation of our students' education is Classical. It is a refreshing stand from my experience in other schools where students graduate with no depth in any architectural direction but a disturbingly su­perficial collage of styles. 
The School of Architecture at Notre Dame is being recognized (both nationally and interna­tionally) as a school with an established direction of studies and method of teaching. We are pleased to see our graduates compete in the job market, and feel that their solid education provides them with a leading edge compared to other stu­dents. 
Please let us not forget that the Godfathers of Modernism were educated in the Beaux Arts Tradition. It was an edu­cation that challenged their in­tellect and senses to go beyond their academic training. Classical architecture is a means, not an end. 
Nadia M. Alhasani Faculty of Architecture Feb.21,1992 
Joe Moody 
fish 'n stuff 

children or "loonies" (there's al­ways a common link between children and society's "loony" outsiders). 
Anyway, the late-twentieth century upbringing in America is another world than that of the witch-doctor. Just like the Salem cigarette chic, we've come a long way baby. 
We, as multifaceted techno­humans, have all kinds of remedies for physical ailments. And we have other goodies for that crazy spectrum of psycho­logical disorders we've con­vinced ourselves of having. 
~~



,...) 


We really don't have any need for a witch-doctor. So no more problems! 
Right?! 

Let's eat and drink and kiss the earth and multiply and chant to the creator! 
But alas... Today, the food and drink are processed, the earth is cement, we over-multi­plied and who has time for any rubbish about a creator? 
It's almost as if the one ill we haven't treated is that hidden tendency in the human that causes us to leap further and further no matter how pleasant the existing space is. Like we're searching. And in all this "advancement," we lost some­thing. 
It's written that some witch­doctors attributed diseases of I he mind and body to the loss of the soul. 
We've been looking out for so long we forgot it's all within, leaving us parched in the floods of our own creations. 
Since the time of the witch­doctor, new ills have arisen. New techno-ills for techno-hu­mans. And affiicted with these 
new ills,  we  must face  new  
witches.  
Mammoth,  half-city  wide  

hospitals, rehabilitation clinics for every kind of happiness­killer and office after office filled with smart people waiting to shake a rattle and breath an incantation into some malfor­tuned, 20th century brain. 
Kingwood Hospital is having community programs for February. 
But maybe we wouldn't need them if the king had stayed in the woods. 
Joe Moody is the Viewpoint Editor of The Observer. His columns will appear occasionally on Tuesday. 

'It you follow the present day world, you will turn your back on the Way; if you would not turn your back on the Way, do not follow the world.' 
Takuan 
Don't look back. submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 


Accent -· 
Tuesday, February 25, 1992 page 11 



Musical milestones 
The Cult and Lenny Kravitz will perform tonight at the Joyce ACC 

By ROLANDO DE AGUAIR the Band for Electric, their second Music Critic major-label effort. This release was another big hit on college radio, but 
Tonight will mark another the album fell short of commercial milestone in what has become a expectations. banner year for concerts at Notre In 1989 Sonic Temple, on the Dame, as the Cult and Lenny Kravitz strength of "Fire Woman," a top ten play the Joyce ACC in a show single, broke the platinum barrier sponsored by the Student Union and established the Cult as a Board. corporate rock force. While 
Headlining this show is the Cult, a Ceremony, the band's latest release, band which has evolved slowly was a disappointment off the shelf, through a long career filled with the band's hard-rock core remains, huge commercial and critical and the volume created by lead success. singer Ian Astbury and guitarist formula to achieve musical success. seventies soul. Again, Kravitz 
Formed in the late seventies, the Billy Duffy should shake the rafters Using his creative edge to recreate changed his visual image to match band played with such influential supporting the Joyce ACC's roof. studio conditions of the late 1960s, his musical sound, and won an even bands as Joy Division, Bauhaus and But the Cult may not be the Kravitz scored with his 1989 debut, larger following. the Smiths while based in biggest rock star under that roof Let Love Rule, with songs centering Though Kravitz may seem to be a Manchester. Known then as tonight. The show's opening act, on flower children and peace. mere shoplifter in the creative Southern Death Cult (then Death Lenny Kravitz, threatens to Bespectacled and wearing neo­world, plagiarizing the work of Cult and the Cult), the foursome, led overshadow the head-liners. A hippie duds, Kravitz made a visual others in order to advance himself, by current frontman Ian Astbury, relative newcomer to the pop music impact with the "Let Love Rule" he should be noted for the positive was known for its gothic approach. world, Kravitz, who is younger than video, and an aural impact with his aspects of his work. 
The Cult was virtually unknown on some Notre Dame students, has psychedelic guitar and studio The thoroughness of his the western shores of the Atlantic become a mainstream favorite after effects. reinterpretation, as well as his until the release of Love, their 1986 only two albums. With Mama Said, Kravitz creative genius, make him one of the American major-label debut. With Kravitz is touring as a special redesigned the exterior of the most interesting acts in commercial this album, the band gained an guest to the Cult. His second album, vehicle which had brought him so rock. immense critical and college-radio Mama Said, was released last much success. following. spring, and carried "It Ain't Over 'Til Rather than imitating the Tonight's concert will begin at 7:30 
The Cult's hard sound, typified by It's Over" to the number-two spot on psychedelic artists of the late sixties, p.m. Student tickets are still on sale such Love tunes as "She Sells the Billboard Hot 100. he moved a few years into the future at gate 10 of the JACC for Sanctuary" and "Nirvana," boosted Kravitz has employed a unique and made an interpretation of early $10.General admission is $18. 
Junkies lead musical Canadian invasion 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Black-Eyed Man 

Music Critic 
Cowboy Junkies 

Despite its immense impact 
* * * 1/2 

on the remainder of Western art, Canada is a pop-musical 
(out of five) 

wasteland. Apart from the red leather-clad Loverboy and the forts. whiny Rush, few bands have 
Many of the songs on Black­crossed from the Great White 
Eyed Man are cowboy stories North into the States. 
set to music. Especially appro­But the Cowboy Junkies are 
priate around a campfire or on out to change that. 
a lonely country road, songs Hailing from Toronto, the 
such as "Southern Rain," the Junkies play a country-folk hy­
first track from Black-Eyed brid which is tough to pigeon­
Man, are poetry set to jangly hole and tougher not to enjoy. 
country guitar. The band enjoyed its first sig­
"The wipers beat a rhythm I nificant college-radio success 
Truck spray obscures my vision with The Trinity Session in 
I But I'm closing in on my des­1988, which was marked by a 
tination I 1\vo more hours and I'll be at your door," sings trappings are soothing to both taries in a rural arena, seem­With the golden age of coun­
spectacular cover of Lou Reed's Margo Timmins in "Southern the ears and the mind. ingly simplifying our own prob­try and western music fully"Sweet Jane.':. 
Rain," which tells the story of a "A Horse in the Country" en­lems and making them seem upon us, the Cowboy Junkies
The band's fourth album, 
rural Southern woman in love courages a return to traditional that much smaller. provide an excellent bridge be­Black-Eyed Man, continues the with a man in Los Angeles. values. "The money would be Folk superstar John Prine tween country and collegetradition of mellow music from Michael Timmins' songwrit­pretty good I If a quart of milk teams with Timmins to handle rock. Their sound isthe Junkies. Michael Timmins' ing is, exceptional, communicat­were still a dollar I Or even if a vocals on "If You Were the refreshingly soothing amidst
songwriting is interpreted 
ing the country life in sooth­quart of milk were still a Woman and I Was the Man," a the grungy sounds usually
beautifully by sister Margo 
ingly clear words. quart." The simple desires song which explores the differ­broadcast by college radio. 
Timmins' voice. 
In its bare sound, Cowboy expressed in rural terms by ent approaches made by men Perhaps the Cowboy JunkiesThe latter Timmins sings with Junkies' music can be easily Timmins translate easily to the and women in relationships. will lead a new charge of young a voice that is sultry and seduc­compared with that of fellow unjust urban and suburban Each of these songs is touch­musicians from the Great White tive while mesmerizing the lis­Canadian k.d. lang. The mes­atmospheres in which most of ing in its tenderness, and the North. If the Timmins' abilities
tener. She effortlessly glides over the lyrics penned by her sages of life on farms, the us live. poetry of Michael Timmins are any indication, the 
sound, and a strong female Indeed, the Junkies make flows smoothly with his mellow Canadian Invasion could bebrother, who continues to lead lead over country-western their protests and commen-guitar. very interesting. 
the band in their musical ef-


Tuesday, February 25, 1992

SCOREBOARD 
·-­
NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
tiA~ttsALL
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvlalon 

EASTERN CONFERENCE American League 
All~~nllc Dlvlalon CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms with
w L T Pta GF GA Home Away DIY
w L Pet GB L10 Str..k Horne Away Conf Mike Fitzgerald, catcher, on a minor league 
New Yolk :u NY Rangers 39 20 4 82 245 204 21-6-3 18-14-1 14-11-0
20 .630 6-4 lost 1 20-7 14-13 23-14 contract. 
Boston Washington 36 20 5 77 261 205 18-8-1 18-12-4 17-9-0
30 24 .556 4 3-7 lost 1 20-6 10-18 18-15 MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms with Willie
NewJe111ey 32 20 8 72 229 187 20-8-3 12-12-5 11-9-4
Miami 28 28 .481 8 5-5 Won 2 20-8 8-20 19-18 Banks, phcher, on a one-year contract 
Philadelphia Plt1sburgh 27 25 8 62 255 229 12-12-6 15-13-2 13-13-3
26 29 .473 8112 4-6 Won 1 17-11 9-18 18-21 SEAffiE MARINERS-Agreed to terms whh Rich 
New Jersey 23 31 .426 NY Islanders 26 27 7 59 224 236 15-12-5 11-15-2 9-11-4
It 4-6 lost 1 18-11 7-20 14-21 Delucia and Jim Newlin, pitchers, and Jeff
Philadelphia 21 28 11 53 183 203 15-8-7 8-20-4 5-18-5
Washington 18 38 .333 16 3-7 lost 2 8-19 10-1710-22 Schaeffer, Infielder, on one-year contracts.
Adama Dlvlalon

Orlando 13 42 .236 21 112 2-8 lost 4 8-19 5-23 9-26 National La•aua
x-Montreal 36 21 7 79 212 155 24-7-3 12-14-4 18-8-5
Cantral Dlvlelon ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Mke 
Chicago 45 10 .818 Boston 28 25 8 64 208 211 18-8-3 10-17-5 12-9-4
7-3 Won 3 24-3 21-7 29-4 Stanton and Armando Reynoso, phchers, on one­
Buffalo 23 28 10 56 220 231 17-10-4 8-18-6 9-11-4
Cleveland 36 17 .679 8 6-4 Won 3 22-5 14-12 29-9 year contracts. 
Detroh Hartford 17 30 11 45 177 203 10-12-9 7-18-2 9-13-5
31 24 .564 14 6-4 lost 1 18-10 15-14 20-17 MONTREAL EXPOS-Ag...ed to terms with Chris 
Atlanta 28 27 Quebec 13 39 9 35 179 244 13-18-1 0-23-8 8-12-4
.509 17 5-5 Won 2 17-11 11-16 15-19 Nabholz, phcher, on a one-year contract.
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE

Milwaukee 25 28 .472 19 5-5 lost 2 20-7 5-21 18-19 NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terms whh JuNo
Norrie Dlvlalon

Indiana 25 31 .446 20112 7-3 Won 1 17-11 8-20 14-19 Valera, p~cher, on a one-year contract.
w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv
Charlotte 18 36 .333 26112 8-4 Won 1 13-14 5-22 12-22 ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with
Detroit 35 18 9 79 263 199 22-9-3 13-9-6 15-7-2
WESTERN CONFERENCE Todd Zelle, third baseman, on a one·year contract,
St. Louis 28 25 9 65 214 207 20-8-3 8-17-8 8-13-3
Mld-•t Dlvlalon and Alex Trevino, catcher, on a minor league
Chicago 26 22 13 65 196 182 18-6-7 8-18-6 11-9-4
w L Pet GB L10 Straak Home Away Conf contract. 
Utah Minnesota 26 30 5 57 195 211 18-11-3 10-19-2 10-10-3
37 19 .661 8·2 Lost 1 28-2 11-17 22-9 San Antonio 31 23 .574 5 6·4 Lost 1 19-6 12-17 20-15 IRISH 79, ACES 65 
Toronto 21 35 5 47 172 226 15-14-2 6-21-3 9-14-2 Houston 28 27 Smythe Dlvlalon
.509 8 112 3-7 Won 1 1!1-8 9-19 16-15 

Denver Vancouver 33 19 9 75 215 187 19-7-5 14-t2-4 16-7-3
20 34 .370 18 3-7 Lost 2 16-11 4-23 11-22 233 13-9-9 12-15-4 11-10-5 NOTRE DAME (711) (10-14)
Dallaa 16 Los Angeles 25 24 13 63 226

38 .296 20 3-7 Lost 1 11-19 5-19 10-22 Bowen 4-5, 3-6, 11; Haysbert7-14, 3-5, 17;
Minnesota Edmonton 27 29 7 61 231 239 16-11-3 11-18-4 12-12-4
10 44 .185 28 3-7 Lost 4 8-21 4-23 7-27 Nowlin 8-16,6-7, 22; Leary 4-7, 0-2, 8; Orlosky 5-8,
Pacific Dlvlalon Winnipeg 25 26 11 61 192 190 16-12-4 9-14-7 8-10-5 11-19-4 12-11-2 2-2, 12; Mardnlak 2-5, 2-2, 6; Alexander 0-0, 0-0,Golden State 37 15 .712 Won Calgary 25 27 9 59 231 226 14-8-5
8-2 8 20-7 17-8 25-10 0; Smith 0-0, 1-1, 1; Knapp 1-1, 0-0, 2; Rupe 0.0, 0­
157 278 11-17-2 2-27-2 8-17-3Portland 38 San Jose 13 44 4 30
16 .704 7-3 Won 1 23.0 15-10 21-12 0, 0. Totals 31-56, 17-25, 79.
Phoenix x-dlnched playoff berth.

35 21 .625 4 5-5 Won 2 23-4 12-17 21-13 EVANSVILLE (65) (11·13)Seattle 30 25 .545 8112 8·2 Won 4 17-10 13-15 20-12 Sunday'a Gamea Blunk 3-8,0-0, 6; Herman 4-8, 4-4, 12; Greis 10­
LA Laken1 Tueaday'a Gamea
29 25 .537 9 2-8 Lost 7 16-10 13-15 19-17 Detroit4, Hartford 0 20,6-6, 26; Lefever 0-7, 6-6, 5; Deffendoll3-9, 5-8,
St. Louis at Hartford, 7:35 p.m.
LA Clippers 27 27 .500 11 7-3 Lost 2 20-9 7-18 17-19 Calgary 4, San Jose 2 13; Lange 0-0, 1-2, 1; Cole 0-4, 2-3, 2. Totals 20­

Sacramento 18 37 .327 20112 Chicago at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.
3-7 Lost 1 14-11 4-26 8-23 56, 23-29, 65. 
Monday'a Gamea Vancouver 2, Boston 1, OT N.Y. lslande111 at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m.
Tueaday'a Gamea Washington 4, N.Y. Islanders 1 Halftime-Notre Dame 38, Evansville 35. Three­
New Jersey at Toronto, 7:35p.m.
Philadelphia 108, Sacramento 96 Boston at New Je111ey, 7:30p.m. Quebec 3, Mont,.,al 3, tie point shooting-Notre Dame 0-0, Evansville 2-8

Plt1sburgh at Washington, 7:35p.m.

Atlanta 117, Denver 95 Milwaukee at Charlone, 7:30p.m. N.Y. Rangers 2, Philadelphia 1, OT Buffalo at Calgary, 9:35p.m. (Blunk 0-2, Lefever 0-3, Deffendo112-3). Fouled
Seanle 106, Minnesota 91 Chicago at Detroh, 8 p.m. out-Lefever. Rebound&-Notre Dame 40 (Bowen

Edmonton 5, Buffalo 2 Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m.
Golden State 138. Dallas 131 Miami at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Los Angeles 4, Winnipeg 2 13), Evansville 33 (Greis 9). Assists-Notre Dame
Wedneaday'a Game•
Phoenix 104, New York 95 

Utah at LA Clii>P!"'· 1~:30 p.m. Chicago 4, St. Louis 2 17 (Leary 6), Evansville (Herman, Lefever, Cole 3).
Montreal at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m.
Portland 110, Lhah 107 Total fouls-Notre Dame 25, Evansville 18. A­

Monday'• Game Winnipeg at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 125.Minnesota 3, New Je<sey 1 Quebec at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
The Observer accepts classifiads every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifiads is 3p.m. All classifiads must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
$350.00/ DAY PROCESSING Tickets Kathy-STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Laura Ptouts-believe it or Notices PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL Curiosity killed the cat. BANG! Info on semester, year, graduate, not. ..you've got a date! Or do you? 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE CHEAP CHEAP You're dead summer and internship programs in Who is it, Queen o'Fiuffies?? 4 USED TEXTBOOKS I NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. Pair of PLANE TIX to Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and more days... Buy & Sell Books KEY WEST AIRPORT TO THE ONE WHO LIKES Melbourne. Programs start at Pandora's Books Drummer/Bassist to jam w/ $45 ea. call MATI K. X1802 TOM TOM'S SMILE. $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 3 blks. from NO mediocre guitarist. CHEAP CHEAP I HAVEN'T A CLUE WHO YOU Kristin TaPas­233-2342110-5:3D M-Sun Matt-2155 ARE? COULD YOU PLEASE SUMMER JOBS We know you're wondering who, 
Round trip airfare from Chicago to GIVE ME ANOTHER? ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS And, oh if you only knew. Your date WANTED: 3 to 6 dedicated students Puerto Rico tor Spring Break: $450. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS tor the formal... to fill the Thurs. 6-8, Thurs.10-For Rent Call x1803 "It's always something, something, ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR Let's just hope that he's normal. A 12, and Fri. or something else, somebody, or LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786-pity you don't have a clue. 6-8 evening shifts for BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY $ NEED 1 ST. JOHN's GA x2558 somebody else." 8373 COUNSELINE. If you're interested 219-291-7153. -Mary, Cathy, Jill, Kelley -the sneaky seven in providing this Community The Lizard King lives on! Down with Service, call239-7336. SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL -Personal ANDY ANDY ANDY ANDY ANDY! the Crustaceans! DRIVER NEEDED: 
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE YES I'M TALKING TO YOU! ALL FROM WASHINGTON, D.C. TO in ancient Rome OF FACILITIES, INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. CAPS AGAIN. HANS' CDs AREN'T Irish Music and Dance SOUTH BEND AT END OF there was a poem KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. Good rates. Save Money. Call me IN YET! Every Tuesday at Club 23 SPRINGBREAK. PLEASE CALL about a dog NICE NEIGHBORHOOD tor a quote 9:3D-6:00, Tracy-SEAMAISIN PATIY AT 312-871-24D5. who found two bones & HOME. 289-1993. Office near campus. 1promised you a personal, so here he licked the one CLOSE TO CAMPUS. it is! Have a great week! SOUTH PADRE ISLAND he licked the other PAUL 232-2794. DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO Condominiums for Spring Break. FLORIDA ON A BUDGET. $100.00 he went in circles O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. Hey Cam, Jon, Mike, Luke, Pat, $20 per person per night/ off beach per person per week. Fort Myers he dropped dead TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM Dave, Ed, Jeff, Steve, Tim, Paul, $25 per person per night/ beach area 1-813-353-1437. 
devo AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR Jack, Bill, Animal, and Tom front 
SUBLET-CHEAP FOR FOUR 1-800-833-5555. (HazeiDave). Hope you guys all 1-800-422-8212. TYPING AVAILABLE STUDENTS!! DO NOT PAY have an awesome Spring Break! TO A GIRL IN PE 6A 287-4082. EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND His eyes OPENIIIII Barn, (You know who you are): 
PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY Last but certainly not least-Carrie­Happy Birthday! NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR THE POOLIIII CALL X3414-"Let's go Greyhound on spring only 1 odays until Florida! Sunshine Love. I've deflowered you once, and I'll do CHAMPAIGN JL BY EARLY PM ON MESSAGE. break. 50% off anywhere we go. here we come! That's right Flea it again. TH. MAR 5. WILL SPLIT COSTS. Restrictions apply. Call 287 -6541" girlfriend! CALL MIKE 1668 HOUSE FOR RENT FOR SUMMER Love, "Blood" 
SCHOOL. $150/MO., $170/MO., Shaka: When the walls fell JZ Hey Margaret, $200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. It's your birthday, today­Lost and Found CALL 287-2159 PAUL. t;lsaf;skadf;ksjdf Zoom F­
I need a ride to the DETROIT AREA Thanks tor being a great date LOST: GRAY COAT WITH ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., IRELAND PROGRAM '90-'91 tor Spring Break. HELP! Beth everything you know is wrong. Saturday! Sorry the Callies lost! FLANNEL LINING IN KEENAN FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED x4341 -L HALL ON FRIDAY 2/21. CALL TIM HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY IF ONLY WE COULD GO BACK! I Book in the Head: P.S. Hope to see you at CJ's! 283-2004. SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9-My happy cat?­
MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 LOVE, What a year it's been! Don't forget your beads-maybe Found: Dorm Key on black OR 255-5852. Phenomenal. Class-some of us you'll GET SOMEII!I I shall alway love you dearly, Observer key chain, rm. 118. Call MOL&MO have it. But I will not always be in love with x4290 to claim. 6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. -Snatcherella Many Fights you. 
FURNISHED.272-6306········Losr········· Avon $$$Sales. New Commission hot & steamy hot & steamy Needed: Ride to North. New Is it Tim Deenihan, or Errol Flynn? A thin gold rope chain bracelet Rent Frat House '92-'93 earnings selling at work/home. 232-Jersey for Break x3384 Henry V, Feb. 26-29, Tix at somewhere between Loftus, NOH, Pooltble, Security System, 2 0014. KGB, Lafortune. and Hayes-Healy. kegerators (full bar),5Bedrms You DO dance! Way to shake Hey Linguini Headll Great sentimental valuellllll (houses 8-9), tully furnished, it at the Lewis SYRI Pete Dillard reveals the stunning Please help I Call SARA at x4940 if 2bath, Cheap rent. MARCH FOR WOMEN'S LIVES! Let me know the next time (Yes that's you, you know who you truth about his mistress. 'Henry V' you have it. Call now! I 234-6976 PROCHOICE ACTIVISTS: HELP you're taking a nap... are.) Tix at LaF 
ORGANIZE the Michiana Coalition The Key Master """FOUND""" COLLEGE PARK CONDO -to go to the Freedom of Choice of Crowley JC(FE) "What is Stan?" Mini 35mm camera Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -Rally in Washington, DC. Call for Thanx for mixin' our brew! 'Henry V' Feb 26-29 Tix at LaF between Mod Quad and available immediately-call287-more information 232-6495 or 284-hot & steamy hot & steamy Luv, NOH. Was found before 0534 or 271-9268. 5136. the witches of Walsh someday, the giant dog of rejection Christmas Break. will pass amiably by the rotting 
Turtlecreek townhouse available for J.P. Freeman steak of helpless losers Call Joe at 1208 summer months. Furnished. Call Top 15 Quotes from the HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY You disrupt my inner peace 277·6259. 3rd Floor BP Dinner Party MARGARET TORTORELLA Come see EARL'S COURT at the 1 Suuuuuuur-prisel Love, KRISTIN SADIE is a wonderful SMC Coffeehouse February 29th. Wanted 2 Good Song! friend. Will you marry me? 
For Sale 3 Thanks, Mom MOM, DAD, ROB, & KRIS Crime of the week: one Dillon FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM 4 You'll have a good time, PAUL VOELKER'S 20 TODAY! II sophomore seen leaving Art Trads II Fraternities, sororities. student CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED dam mit! Queen o' Fluffies: YUMII HAPPY BIRTHDAY PULAYI on 2124/92. He has brown hair and clubs. Earn up to $1 DDO in one 89 Mercedes ...................... $20D 5 jackfenn Is it an M and a G -other P.V. is about six teet tall named ABBS. week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus 86 vw....................................$50 6 Woo-hoo or aJ and a B? If seen, please inform him of how yourself. And a FREE WATCH just 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 7 lesha... Don't you wonder who it could be? I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y/N.Y.Ci rude his behavior was. for calling 1-800·932-0528. Ext. 65. 65 Mustang .......................... $50 8 I've got magic hands An Sand aT anywhere round' there for Spring 
Choose from thousands starting 9 Melissa's sick? or an M and an S Break. Gas/drivin To All the people who know me and GREEN CORPS CAMPAIGN $25. 1 0 The beer tastes like Who it is, we won't confess. Paul2464 those wro do not: ORGANIZERS Field training and FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Rebecca's butt -only 4 more days of wondering ... THANKS FOR LIKING MElli team organizing on critical enviro Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 11 Melissa's wine looks like Perfection on Garth Brooks -Don X2101 campaigns. Salaried positions in 30 #IN11KJC pee. (Broox): "Isn't that that fat guy who cities. For info (303) 355-1881 or 12 Vanessa, I know how to do this! SPRING BREAK -S. PADRE had a TV special on the other 
EXPLORE THE PHYSICAL,
the Career Center. FOR SALE: SMC approved loft. 13 Can we ride the elevator? ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON week?" 
BIOLOGICAL, & SOCIAL SCIENCES
$80 call284-5174. 14 Hey chief. RESORT"BEACHFRONT Don't be one of the people in this With Low-Coal Educatlonll Soltware
15 It doesn't get any better than PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR, world that finds things easy to AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS New skis K2-180 this...until we put on our bikinis. SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY hate... For IBM PC8 & Compalibll Complim. phone orders. People Call you. Will Nordica Boots 11 OWNER. 1-212-472-1414. (ring, ring) 
Music & SoiiWIII Also Avllllble Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext. 555.24 Poles,accessories $300 Hey P.I.-Do you have a date yet? Vandilea Industries, can I help you? HAS. 289-3317 Stay tuned ...Still IN PROGRESS!! hey nit What about Washables Best? 



Tuesday, February 25, 1992 The Observer page 13 



TONIGHT 

JFORUM liN THIE GRACJE JPKT 
• 
TOPIC: 

STEREOTYPES AT NOTRE DAME 7:00PM -GRACE 
Tyson rape appeal to focus on jury selection 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Noted appellate attorney Alan Dershowitz might focus on the method of jury selection when he defends boxer Mike Tyson in his rape conviction appeal, an Indiana attorney says. 
"Alan Dershowitz is excep­tionally strong in areas of con­stitutional law," said attorney Andy Kerr, an Indianapolis legal analyst. "The only real con­stitutional issue would have been the one of jury selection." 
Tyson's defense attorneys ar­gued unsuccessfully shortly be­fore his trial began Jan. 27 that the system that picks jurors from voting rolls is unfair be­cause blacks are under-repre­sented. 
ABC revealed late last week that Dershowitz, a Harvard law professor, would handle the appeal. The attorney has been unavailable for comment. 
Tyson, the former heavy­weight boxing champion, is awaiting sentencing on his Feb. 10 convictions for rape and two counts of criminal deviate con­duct in connection with a sexual assault against Desiree Washington, 19, of Covington, 
R.I. Tyson faces a maximum of 60 years in prison. 
Tyson's Indianapolis attorney, James Voyles, said he thought Vincent J. Fuller of Washington remains the fighter's chief counsel. Voyles said he wasn't sure about his own status. 
Marion County Prosecutor Jeffrey Modisett, whose office handled the prosecution, ac­knowledged that Dershowitz was a good appellate attorney. However, he said authorities are confident the state will win the appeal. 
Dershowitz, 52, has handled several high-profile cases in re­cent years for such clients as socialite Claus Von Bulow and evangelist Jim Bakker. 
He stepped into the Bakker case after the former television preacher was convicted on 24 counts of fraud and conspiracy. The appeals court threw out Bakker's 45-year sentence be­cause of remarks made by the trial judge. 
Dershowitz also master­minded two successful appeals by von Bulow after he was ini­tially convicted of trying to murder his wife. 
Meanwhile, a Indianapolis minister who has sided with Tyson said he feels the accuser was lying when she presented her story on national television Friday. 
The Rev. Leroy Dinkins of Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church and seven other local ministers have publicly ques­tioned the beauty contestant's veracity in accusing Tyson of the assault last July during Indiana Bla~k Expo in Indianapolis. · 
Washington was interviewed on the ABC television news­magazine ~20-20." 
"I feel as though she was ly­ing," Dinkins said. "Maybe not about the act that took place, but the part she had in it. She was too rehearsed. This girl is being protected all the way. She is being shielded. This lady got herself into a situation, and she is using this tactic to get out of it. 
"She has done what she said she wanted to get done. She will not change any minds," Dinkins said after the interview was me anyway. 

Washington said she hoped In another development, the appearing on national television Indianapolis Star reported over would sway her critics. the weekend that the FBI con­
"If they still feel negatively tinues to investigate the $1 mil­toward me after this interview, lion bribe Washington said she then there is nothing I can do," was offered if she would drop Washington told interviewer charges against Tyson. Barbara Walters. She expressed "We are aware of the allega­dismay and sadness at support tions," Bill McMullin, a for Tyson among some black spokesman from the FBI office churches in Indianapolis and in Boston, told the Star. "We are around the country. "No matter looking into them to see if there what I say to them they aren't has been a violation of any 
The report contradicted a statement Thursday by Marion County prosecutor Modisett that the investigation had ended with no criminal charges being flied. · 
New York Newsday, citing a source close to an FBI investi­gation into Miss Washington's allegation, has reported that the Rev. Virgil A. Wood was the person who made the offer. 

SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
FUNDED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 



page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1992 

Clemens absent, Quintana hurt as BoSox open camp 

(AP)-Spring training for new Boston 
Red Sox manager Butch Hobson got off 
to a shaky start Monday when Roger 
Clemens didn't show up and it was 
learned that first baseman Carlos 
Quintana had broken his arm in an 
automobile accident in Venezuela. 
With word only trickling in on Quintana, and the whereabouts of Clemens a mystery through much of the day, the Red Sox were loathe to discuss the baseball end of things. 
"We just hope everybody's OK. That's my first concern." Hobson said. 
Quintana. injured while rushing two brothers to a hospital after they were shot at a party, underwent surgery on his left arm for a broken humerus, the bone which extends from the shoulder to the elbow. 
Quintana. who l).it .295 last year. is expected to be out for several months. His spot will likely be filled by Mo Vaughn, a bright prospect who battled him for playing time last year. Jack Clark, generally a designated hitter, also is an experienced first baseman. 
There was little the club could do about Clemens, a three-time Cy Young Award winner, except to wait by the phone. 
He did not call. but his agent, Alan Hendricks, called late in the day. 
"The agent said he's working out and in great shape and will be here soon," general manager Lou Gorman said. 
Gorman said he assumed Clemens was still at his home in Houston. 
Hobson could say only that his "gut feeling is that (Clemens) had a very good excuse for not being here." 
Baseball's collective bargaining agreement doesn't require players to report to spring training until 30 days before opening day. 
Meanwhile, some other high-profiled players tried to work the kinks out at the start of spring training. 
Athletics starter Bob Welch received a cortisone injection in his left knee Monday after throwing for the first time this spring, 
"Hopefully it will relieve some of the discomfort in his knee," A's trainer Barry Weinberg said. "It's caused from old wear and tear from previous injuries and operations." 
Welch first experienced discomfort in his knee on Super Bowl Sunday. He went through a thorough examination in the San Francisco area before coming to Arizona, and doctors could find nothing wrong with the joint. 
The 1\s are encouraged because there is no apparent swelling in the 35-year­old pitcher's leg. 
"It's less than a pristine looking knee," 


SPRicNG*lA 
:TRAINING""\ 
~M~ 
Detroit (2/26), Boston (2/29), Houston (2/26),fi)Y~Los A~geles (2/26), 
K1ss1mmee ~I Vera Beach
~ WiomtHa~o 
Kansas City (2/28), Haines City 
(2/26), California (2/26), Chicago (2/27),Sco·ttsd<!le Mesa Mesa 



~Phllodetph~ (2127)
'Wfp 
Clearwater 

Toronto (2/28), Dunedin 
® Pittsburgh (2/27), St. Louis (2/26), .------;B=ra=d=en=to=n=::J 
*

St. Petersburg 1 



\ 8®~
San Diego (2/27), Milwaukee (2/27), Cleveland (2/26), 

Chicago (2/26), Texas (2/29), Minn. (2/26), Baltimore (2/27), New York (2/26) 
Yuma Chandler Tucson 

Sarasota Port Charlotte Fort Myers Miami Ft. Lauderdale ' 
Weinberg said. Welch has had two major surgeries to repair cartilage in the joint, one while he was in the eighth grade, and another when he was in college. 
Orthopedic specialist Dr. Rick Bost. who injected both sides and the top of Welch's knee, will examine the knee again Saturday. 
''I'm still concerned, but I'm happy to get on a mound and not fall down and have my knee fall apart," Welch said. "It feels good today." 
Welch was 12-13 last year after winning 27 games and the American League Cy Young Award in 1990. 
With injured pitcher Chuck Finley eliminated from consideration, the California Angels will start either Jim Abbott or Mark Langston on the mound in their season-opener on April 7. 
New York (2/28), Port St. Lucie 
a 
IJIIOS
Montreal (2/26), 
W. Palm Beach 
0 ~f~.
IJ"....-l•l"li 
Atlanta (2/26), 
W. Palm Beach 
The Observer is acceptingapplications for the paid positionsof: 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
Advertising Representative 
Those interested should contact Mike Hobbs at 239-5303. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 


Viewpoint Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a 1 page personal statement to joe Moody by Wed .., February 26 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 

Cavanaugh Hall Players Presents: 

JB3(())JD)Y 
LOVES AN 
A Cm1~~mp@rary C@m8dy By R@rnald A#8XaJ.rud8r 
Washington Hall February 27, 28, 29 8:10P.M. 
Produced in cooperation with 
Dramatists Play Service, Inc.' 
ADMISSION IS FREE! 
DONATIONS REQUESTED 



tud nt Gov rnment '92 •'93 






Applications NOW available! 
Student Body Secretary Executive Coordinator of Intellectual Life Executive Coordinator of Student Life Executive Coordinator for Public Relations Executive Coordinator of Legal Department Executive Coordinator of Special Projects Executive Coordinator for Student Government Reports Freshman Orientation Commissioner Transfer Orientation Commissioner 
Academic Commissioner ••• Publicity Commissioner Hall Fellow Commissioner ••• Publications Editor Iceberg Debates Commissioner ••• Alumni Relations Commissioner Political Awareness Commissioner ••• Campus Media Relations Commissioner Campus Improvement Commissioner ••• ND/SMC Relations Commissioner Women's Concerns Commissioner ••• NASCU Commissioner University Services Commissioner ••• Foreign Relations Commissioner Residence Hall Commissioner ••• Crime Prevention Commissioner Minority Concerns ••• Policy Analyst Security Commissioner ••• Special Projects Commissioner Faculty-Senate Liason 
APPLICATIO A DJOB DE CRIPTION CAN BE PICKED UP 

OW AT STUDE TGOVERNMENT OFFICE, 2 FLOOR, LA FORTUNE 
i ~ 
·• 



Mullin sparks Warriors past Mavericks 
DALlAS (AP) -Chris Mullin scored 29 points and Tim Hardaway added 27, including five-of-seven from 3-point range, as the Golden State Warriors won their eighth straight game, 138-131 over the Dallas Mavericks on Monday night. 
Hardaway scored nine con­secutive points in the closing two minutes of the third period, including two 3-pointers, to give the Warriors a 104-94 lead. 
Dallas, which was led by rookie Mike luzzolino's career­high 22 points, cut Golden State's lead to 133-126 with 
23.8 seconds left on Brian Howard's three-pointer. Derek Harper hit a 3-pointer with 8.7 seconds left to reduce the Warriors' advantage to 135-130 but Dallas could come no closer. 
The winning streak equalled Golden State's longest since January, 1989. 
Sarunas Marciulionis, who had 22 points, scored 10 points in the third period, including a twisting layup at the buzzer, and the Warriors converted eight of their last nine shots of the quarter. 
Dallas had an 86-85 advan­tage with 5:25 left in the third quarter before Marciulionis scored six points during a 10-1 run for a 95-87 advantage. 
Golden State led at halftime, 73-69 behind Mullin's 22 points. Mullin was 10 for 12 in the first half as the Warriors hit 70 


_ 
1, 2Q-4 1,489 212 595 1 
~ 

3 2Q-3 1,488 4 21-2 1,473 2 5 Arizona 2Q-4 1,287 5 6 Missouri 9
19-4 1,21? 
7 UNLV 24-2 1,149 12 8 Ohio St. 17-51,104 6 9 Arkansas 
2D-6 1,052 10 10 North Caroline 18-5 1,029 4 11 Kentucky 2D-5 976 13 12 Michigan St. 18-5 918 11 13 Southern Cal 19-4 851 15 14 Oklahoma St 21-5 762 a 15 Tulane 19-3 627 18 16 Alebeme 20-6 623 14 17 Mlchlgen 17-6 603 20 18 Georgetown 17-6 487 25 19 Cincinnati 2Q-4 380 19 20 St. John's 16-7 354 24 21 DePaul 18-6 275 ­22 Florida St. (tie) 18-8 170 16 22 Syracuse (lie) 16-7 170 17 
17-6 150 21 17~ 139 ­~~~~--~--~ 
~~--~~~·******************************* 

~~====* 
~I.Wiilloil.ali~~~ ~ ~C!mi:imllli** 
* 
f•thef al the 8ttde Pti 44'5i 115 915 
ftodlo fly•r PGI3 430 700 930 we~;.~ne·s World P61 :s 500 710 945 ** 
* 

~~~~~~~~~* 
BARBER SHOP 
Serving the Notre Dame Community for Over 30 years 
2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
272-6722 
percent of their field goal attempts. 
Mullin connected on eight of nine first quarter field goal at­tempts and scored 18 points, the most in a quarter by a Mavericks opponent this sea­son. But Dallas got 15 points from Blackman and went 18 of 20 from the free throw line to forge a 39-39 first-quarter tie. 
Golden State won the teams' previous meeting, 143-141 on Jan. 18 in Dallas. 
Forward Brian Quinnett, ac­quired Thursday from the New York Knicks for center James Donaldson, was in uniform for Dallas but did not play. 
Sonics 106, Timberwolves 91 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Eddie Johnson scored 26 points and sparked a key third-quarter surge as Seattle broke open a close game with a 12-0 run and went on to defeat the Minnesota Timberwolves 106-91 Monday night. 
Ricky Pierce's three-point play broke a 58-58 tie midway through the quarter and Johnson followed with seven of the SuperSonics' next nine points. Minnesota hit only 6 of 20 shots in the quarter. 
Benoit Benjamin added 24 points as Seattle won its fourth straight and 1Oth in 15 outings under new coach George Karl. The loss for the Timberwolves was their fourth straight. 


Redmen win in OT, 72-68 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -St. Providence missed two free John's, which had missed 16 of throws, Lamont Middleton con­its first 40 free throws, made all verted St. John's third consecu­six it attempted in the final 2:55 tive offensive rebound on one of overtime and the 20th­possession for a three-point ranked Redmen won their lead. Jason Buchanan, who had 
missed two of four free throwsseventh straight game, a 72-68 
victory over Providence on in the final minute of regula­Monday night. tion, then made two free throws 
The Redmen (17-7, 11-5) to complete the run. moved into a first-place tie wit'J Forbes made two free throws Georgetown (1 0-4) in the Big for the Friars, but Sealy con­East and have just two confer-verted a length-of-the-court ence games to play -both at pass from Buchanan on the in­home against Georgetown and bounds to restore the lead to 
SetonHall. , five points. 
Providence (13-15, 5-11) tied Providence still had a chance the score 62-62 with three sec-as Forbes hit a 3-pointer with onds to play in regulation on a 17 seconds left to make it 70-68 rebound basket by Trent and Sealy turned the ball over • Forbes. on the inbounds play. Corey 
The Friars, who have lost all Floyd and Forbes both missed four overtime games they have 3-pointers in the final 11 played this season, scored the seconds and Chuck Sproling first points of the extra session ended the scoring when he on a free throw by Marques made two free throws with two Bragg, but the Redmen then seconds left. scored six straight for a 68-63 Shawnelle Scott had 14 points lead with 39 seconds to play. for St. John's before fouling out 
Malik Sealy, who finished with with 33 seconds left in reg­21 points, started the run with ulation and Middleton had 11. two free throws with 2:55 left Simpkins had 16 points for and after Dicky Simpkins of the Friars. 

THE THOMAS J. WHITE ~ 
CENTER ~ ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT: PRESENTS * 
*
* 
A LECTURE BY 
* 
* 
PROFESSOR RANDY BARNETT *** CHICAGO KENT LAW SCHOOL * 
*
* 
ON "THE NINTH AMENDMErJT AND THE '*'*
'* 
PRESUMPTION OF LIBERTY" 
'* 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27 '*
'*
'*oM 
12:00 NOON : 
Shawn Kemp chipped in 21 points and 15 rebounds for Seattle. Rookie Luc Longley scored a career-high 19 for Minnesota. 
Scott Brooks came off the bench to hit 15 points for Minnesota. Pooh Richardson added 14 points·, although he turned the ball over seven times. 
The attendance of 18,082 was the smallest home crowd of the season for Minnesota, which has the NBA's worst record at 10-44. 
Karl shuffied Seattle's lineup, inserting ex-CBA player Tony Brown in the starting lineup in place of Gary Payton, who had started 52 of Seattle's first 53 games. Neither player was much of a factor as the Sonics dominated the inside play against the smaller Timberwolves. 
The Sonics held a 51-34 re­bounding edge, the 17th game in a row Minnesota has been outrebounded. Minnesota is 3­14 in that span. 
The Timberwolves closed to within 77-72 after a three-point basket by Brooks with 9:48 to play, but Johnson answered with a layup and Nate McMillan drilled a long jump shot. 
Seattle held a 49-47 halftime advantage after leading by as many as 11. Two three-point baskets by Brooks tied the game at 45, capping an 18-7 

Tuesday, February 25, 1992 

AP File Photo Kevin Johnson, shown here against the Utah Jazz, led the Phoenix Suns past the New York Knicks last night in Phoenix, 104-95. 
Minnesota rally. 

Suns 104, Knicks 95 
PHOENIX (AP) Jeff Hornacek ended a Phoenix cold spell by hitting a three-point play and a 3-pointer with just over five minutes to play to help the Suns defeat the New York Knicks 104-95 on Monday night. 
Hornacek's long-distance shot 
The Observer is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Typesetter 
Those interested should contact Patrick Barth at 239-5303. 
put the Suns ahead 91-84, and the Suns made it an 8-0 run when Tom Chambers hit a pair of free throws with 4:36 remaining. 
The scoring combination of Chambers, Kevin Johnson and Hornacek helped offset Patrick Ewing's 37 points and 10 re­bounds. 
Chambers had 29 points, Johnson 25 and Hornacek 22. 
Tuesday, February 25, 1992 The Observer 
page 17 






Women's hoops tops Evansville, 79-65 USA 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team won its season­high fourth consecutive game last night with a 79-65 victory at Evansville. 
The Irish upped their record to 10-14, 7-4 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with the win, and have taken over sole possession of second place in the conference. 
"Right now, we are as upbeat and positive as we have been all year," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said after the game. "One reason for this is that the bench has been very positive. They have been cheering and everyone is doing their part and giving a good performance when they are in the game." 
After holding only a three­point halftime lead, the Irish broke the game open with a 10­0 run early in the second half. When the run ended at 16:18, Notre Dame led, 48-38. 
Evansville was able to pull within six, 50-44, with 14:11 left to play, but could get no closer. 
With three games left in the regular season, McGraw feels her team's early season prob­lems are behind them and they are beginning to peak. 
"We are a different team now," McGraw commented. "Earlier, only Margaret Newlin was playing well consistently. Now we are having two or three people scoring in double figures each game." 

The Observer/ R.Garr Schwartz Sophomore guard Kara Leary, shown here in this year's first game against Evansville, scored eight points and dished out six assists in Notre Dame's 79-65 victory over the Lady Aces last night in Evansville. 
Last night, Notre Dame demonstrated this offensive balance as four players finished in double figures-Nowlin, who led the team with 22 points; Letitia Bowen, who had 11 points and a game-high 13 re­bounds; Comalita Haysbert, rest of the regular season and who scored 17 points and the MCC tournament, where Sherri Orlosky, who finished they could be the second seed with 12. behind regular-season cham­

pion, Xavier. The winner of the The Irish hope this consis­tournament receives an auto­tency carries over through the matic NCAA Tournament bid. 
SUPER JOB!!! 

Thank you to food service employees and student workers duringJPW. We couldn't have done it without 
ALL OF YOU!!! 

--NOTRE DAME FOODSERVICE 






Money
for 



Weaver 
continued from page 20 
Weaver was declared academically ineligible for second semester of his junior year. 
"Ever since that happened, I totally changed my attitude around. I'm thinking a lot more positive and I'm a lot more structured in everything I do. It gave me a new perspective," said Weaver. "You don't realize how much you enjoy something until someone takes it away from you." 
Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR, fixed rate 

• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify 


No co-signer is needed. Bring in your student I. D. 
0 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 • Independent of the University 
continued from page 20 
Let the Russians and the Finns excel at cross country skiing and ski jumping. For that matter, at field hockey and canoeing as well, when we hit Barcelona this summer. 
You can expect the experts wondering why we can't medal in team handball or fencing. But we cannot be good at ev­erything, can we? 
Do we want a sports pro­gram like the East Germans had, where they selected you at age three, put you in a special school and honed you and trained you into an Olympic champion? 
Or do we want a system where those people who actu­ally want to devote their time and energy to becoming a mas­ter biathlete or judoist can choose to do so, while others can pursue their NBA or NFL dreams? 
Thus, when we are told that Duncan Kennedy's lOth-place finish in the luge was the best­ever American finish, we're happy. We cannot figure out why he would want to hurl himself down a bobsled run on a rickety sled, but we are happy nonetheless. 
Besides, with the demise of the old Soviet bloc and their sports machines, it is just a matter of time before Americans can compete on a more even level anyway. 
And for those who cannot wait, there is always Lillehammer in 1994. 
of a good alias. Whether out of fear, respect or lack of creativ­ity, no one has really dubbed Weaver with a nickname that has stuck...except one. 
"When I first came up here on a recruiting trip, the seniors were big classic rock fans," he recalled. "They heard my last name and they were like, 'Chuck 'The Dream' Weaver, here to make the dream come true."' 
Chuck Weaver hopes to make his dreams come true in the NCAA Championships in March and to make a name for himself that will stick in the wrestling record books. 

With a fresh perspective, Weaver worked hard to come back and finally tap his poten­tial. He took the starting spot from fellow senior Curt Engler at the start of the season. Now he wants to take Engler's place in the NCAAs. 
"Well, hopefully it (the NCAA Tournament) means All­American," he said. "In Oklahoma, a lot of kids have a dream of becoming an All­American wrestler, and this year I Just might have that chance. 
In the WWF, a wrestler's suc­cess depends heavily on marketing himself with the help 

Boston University 
·Explore the Wotld Through Studyrl)proa4 
<®:'· '. > Internship Programs • languageiUberal Arts London,E~d : . :.· ..,;:'fP,~ms
*·:· .... "%> . %. . . . .· ~ 
•.
Paris France'10if··· Grenoble, France -:·~:: Sydney( :Austfalh. qi·:-~Haifit, ~1 kWashington, D.C. .. ~d; Spain · ""' ··· Nnmey. N}ger .. 'd, England .,.,; p;tibva, Itaiyl . , Summer Programs ·'¥···.·.... 
>'%.. ~ r~ .l... <~ . . , '·' :;.t'.'i'.. 
Greece, London; Madrid. Monaco, Pa<Jova, Paris, Sydney, USS}VEastem §~:,ope~ Washmgton, D.C. 
For program detail• com;iete lk~ coupc1Jl bdow ~nd mailii to: 
Boston Un!vei'Sity, International Proarams 232 Bay State Road. BoxjR..~,~;~n, MA 02215\617/353c9888 
I Name____________________________________________ 
I

I Address,___________________________________________ 
I

I City_________________State:________.Zip.__________ I
Phone (__) College/University 
I

I Summer 0 Fall 0 Spring 0 19_I Internship Programs Language Programs Summer Programs I
I 0 London 0 Grenoble 0 Oxford 0 Greece 0 Padova 0 USSR 
I 

0 Paris 0 Haifa 0 Padova 0 London 0 Paris 0 Washington II 0 Sydney 0 Madrid 0 Madrid 0 Sydney t._:J ~shingt:::_ __~i::::'y____o Mo~ ______ _j 
I
I ND/SMC Equestrian Club wins first ever horse shows 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1992 
By JONATHAN JENSEN flat and 6th in the fences. in novice fences. Sports Writer "We've always counted on her Barry also contributed with a and Meaghan McCue." 4th place finish in the beginning 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's McCue also came through at flat, and Cutrona took sixth in Equestrian Club made history Iowa St., winning the open flat the intermediate flat. two weekends ago, becoming and finishing 2nd in the open As a result of these two wins, the first team in the five year fences. She is the club's first the ND/SMC Equestrian club history of the club to win a rider to compete in the tough has climbed the ladder from a Hegion XII horse show. open division. beginning club, to being able to 
And to prove their victory was The club also got excellent challenge the likes of Purdue, for real, they went out and did performances in the flat com­Ball State, and Taylor.it again last weekend. petition. First place finishes "They've been saying that this 
The club first shocked the came from Julia Barry in the Notre Dame stuff has to stop,"
region on Feb. 15-16 in Elgin, beginning flat and Emily said Cutrona, an Arlington,II., at a show hosted by Iowa Lincoln in the intermediate flat. Texas native. "We've never had State. Their second upset win Katie Bradley rode to second in them as nervous as they are came at Indiana University in the novice flat and Larissa now." 
Bloomington, further proving Wenning followed Barry in the What makes the club's ac­the club's claim as a top-rate beginning flat taking second. complishments all that as­Equestrian Club. The Indiana show was won tounding is the fact that these 
"I cannot believe how far with consistent performances perennial powers have over 40 we've come," said Club Vice­all around, highlighted by riders on the team, whereas the President Angela Cutrona. "We Bradley's win in the novice flat, ND/SMC Club has under 15 
have a lot of new riders and and another first for McCue in competing members. much more support." the open flat. "These girls are really sup­

The club was able to take the "Because of our first win," portive," noted Cutrona. Iowa State show thanks to a noted Cutrona, "We felt real "They're not just riding for terrific performance by Megan confident at Indiana." themselves, they're pulling for Turpin. The freshman rider Feeding the club's confidence everyone else." turned in two first-place fin­was Turpin, who had another Another key to the club's ishes in the novice flat and outstanding show, finishing resurgence has been the sup­fences competition. She also second in both the intermediate port of coach Cindy Thomson of be anywhere without her." Wenning, and junior Eric 
Coach Thomson and the club Ivanovich head to the regionals. will look for an unprecedented "We're going to go for it," third-straight victory at Taylor promised Cutrona. on April 4th, before Cutrona, 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Baseball 
and Lacrosse officials meeting has been changed from February 26 to February 27. The baseball meeting is at 4:30 and lacrosse is at 5:30 in the J.A.C.C. Auditorium. 

•The 
Aikido Club holds practices every Monday and Wednesday from 6-8 p.m. in 219 Rockne. Everyone is welcome to attend. 

•The 
Rowing Club Is looking for coxswains for both the varsity and novice teams. Interested individuals should call Pete at 

•The 
ski team now has three spots open for its spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone interested should call Chris Woods at 277-7089. 


271-8466. 

•Late sign-ups for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament will 
be held Monday through Thursday from 4 to 7 p.m. in the S.U.B. 
office, on second floor LaFortune. 
earned high point rider for the flat and fences. the Kensington Riding Center. entire show. Liz Dobrzykowski won second "Her excitement has been 
•The Spring Eight Ball Tournament will be held in the Gorch
"Megan has certainly come a in the beginning flat followed by overwhelming," noted Cutrona. 

Game Room in LaFortune on Tuesday, March 3 and Wednesdaylong way," said Cutrona, who Wenning in third. Dawn "She's made practices more March 4 at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in signing up can do so nowfinished 2nd in the intermediate Overstreet also captured third challenging, and we wouldn't 
until March 2. The entry fee is $3. L---------------~--------------------------­


...Cans ide rat i ans 

One less oppression, please When a young person feels the call to enter religious life, the first concrete step is to enter the novitiate of a particular religious community. There the initiate will spend a full year learning the traditions of the group, studying the masters of spirituality, and seeking a deeper self-understanding and clarity of motivation. It was during such a year way back when that the novice master said to me: "Do you understand that you are a white, American, Roman Catholic male, and a would-be cleric at that? My friend, you are soon to be part of every oppressive group that I can think of!" I've never forgotten that description. I thought of it again last weekend when I first heard confessions and then presided at a Eucharist with a group of beautiful St. Mary's women. They were all completing what had clearly been for them a very meaningful three day retreat. For me, there was something unhappily strange about coming in as a priest at the end of a women's weekend, and adding all the official rituals that only a man is allowed to do. It seemed like bad teaching. If we had not been careful, it could have seemed as if God had not been present until "Father" arrived, and of course, that was not true. One young woman told me how alienating it felt to her, and how sad she was because the Church does not treat women and men equally. Awkwardly, we talked about the historical context of it all, and tried to make the best of it. As one old nun friend of mine used to say, "There's probably no reason to stop eating peanut butter, just because we don't like the jar." But still it makes me sad to think that the Church seems unable to get out in front on the women's issue. Nothing in the world is more powerful, no force for .change has more impact in real lives than the energy unleashed by t~ uplifting of the status of women. As a young priest I often found it distracting and sometimes annoying to constantly need to scan through the prayer books as I read aloud and struggled to make sure that I changed all the "he's" to "us's" and made "fishers of men" into "fishers of people" or "fishers of humans" or "fishers of men and women" or something. "Fishers of men" actually sounded better to me.  Then for a good number of years I lived in an urban slum of an exploding Third World city and again and again I saw how men could beat their wives mercilessly, and no one would intervene. I saw how ritual circumcisions left women mutilated and humiliated. I saw how old men could buy new, young extra wives for a half dozen cows delivered to a greedy parent. The harshness of the inequality was blatantly clear. That's why the Church has to lead on this issue --not to change the language we use, but to change the lives people live. The cause of women's liberation, articulated in Western culture and based on true Gospel values, is a beacon of influence and hope, sending real light into the farthest corners of the ever-shrinking world. We need to work and pray with conviction so that someday we will be part of one less oppressive system. Tom McDermott, C.S.C. Se.t February 29 -5 :00 pM -Fr. Peter R.ocn. C.S.C. Sun March 1st -10:00 am-Fr. Peter R.ocn. C.S.C. -11:45 am-Fr.lhoma.s Gaughan.. C.S.C.  


-I •• ,..,,, 
I_,,,. 

T-'~ 
Tuesday, February 25, 1992 The Observer page 19 
.. 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
CALVIN AIID HOBBES 
5\-\CN't:.\.. l\\'C. Wt>--1..\C..! SI-\0'-J't.\.. l\-1£ 'Nt-.L\C.. .' Tl-tt-.TS f.U. H.A. WJO R>R 
~\>l'i)\-\t.'K£. 

SPELUNKER 
'!> RI&HT, MR. AND MR$. WONG... Yoo SHQUt.D HAV£ TAKEN A RIC:.I-lT 
AT EDJSON I NOT A 
W\1~1 ~~ ~'< ~'«~RPJL lkTt.u...t.CI ?.1 1-\i BIJ\)'i)\~G GEI'\1\.15 IS Bt.ll'-IG ~~KillR£\)' I 1>.'51'\R£ 1b 1'-\C>R£ 1\\fl...l--1 
BR\J\£ S\J1Nt. lA~R! 
1:. 1992 Waltlt'SOf\/01Sitlbuled by Umversal Press Syt'ICIICale 
IWt.~ \\~\\~! \\-\~ t..W..L.\1-\G H~I'\DS 1\ru:: I>ESTIN8:> TO 
CR'a>.~ VK\lRtM\-Of 't{()lll\nS, ~ET \\EK~ T\\Ef~ 'tiOR\'-1 it> 11-\t. Bol'lt. IN IJ\-11"-"\JLI"-"\ll\~ I>R\JOG~Ri .1 't-1\-\A.T fl... \'t\cl~STQ.c\.IS \NJJ'STIC£! 
\ 
GUS 7 C.OllLD W€ 5££ 'f0\1 FoR A MOMENT? 
IN PR I\lATE? 

Centaur rodeos 
BILL WATIERSON 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


JAY HOSLER 
23 Clothing size 48 Monetary worth 
(abbr.) (abbr.)

ACROSS 
24 Zodiac sign I With 10-Across, 25 Takes it easy 49 Woman's name or 
famed spy (2 wds.) song5 ... partridge in 29 As hungry ----50 Scientist's work ----tree 33 Enliven 59 "-and a Woman" 
10 See !-Across 35 living room: Sp. 
60 Gay ---­14 Birthstone 36 Opie's aunt 61 Capri, for one 
15 Words of denial 37 Hockey great 62 Sodium chloride 16 Mr. Preminger 38 Spasm 63 Cordage fiber 17 Type of word 39 Vases 
64 But: Fr. 

18 Certain playing 41 Tending to stir up 65 Catch sight of 
card 45 In a sloped 66 Contestant 19Well: Sp. manner 67 Adam's grandson20 Promptness 47 Francis and Dahl 

The C u I t 
& 

Lenny Kravitz 
TONIGHT at the J.A.C.C. 
Tickets are still available at the door. (GATE 10) 

Admission $12 with ND/SMC ID 

DOWN 
I Player's turn 2 Highest point3 Infield cover 4 Italian architect 5 West Indies island 6 Sweet wine 7 Sma 11 case 8 Military equipment,
for short 9 Drive back LO Associates 
familiarly 11 "It's ----game"12 Map notations 
(abbr.)13 Charged particles21 Certain doctoral 
degree (abbr.) 22 Jacques Cousteau's 
domain 25 Picture game26 Make a great effort 27 Classic movie 
western 28 Type of vote 29 Heart chambers 30 Dine at home 
(2 wds.)31 like Jacques Brel 32 The Marx Brothers' 
"A Day at the ----" 34 Part of a circle 40 The age of some 
septuagenarians41 Geometric curve 42 In a cliched 
manner 43 M*A*S*H star 44 Daily occurrence in 
England 46 ----avion 50 Alleviate 51 Certain holiday,
for short 52 Insect appendage53 Water pipe54 Fonnerly55 Approaching56 "No man ----island" 57 Sundry assortment 58 Robert Stack role 








Sports 

page 20 Tuesday, February 25, 1992 
Irish travel to Dayton tonight 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team (ll-11) will look to extend its winning streak to fiyp and brighten its NCAA Tournament hopes tonight at the University of Dayton Arena at 7:30p.m. 
Dayton and Notre Dame met earlier in the season, when the Flyers were crushed by the Irish on January 27 at the Joyce ACC. 76-54. However. this is a different Dayton team. 
"Dayton has changed consid­erably since we played them," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "This appears to be a club that is making a strong run. and we are very aware of what they can do." 
The most significant change is the insertion of sophomore guard Sean Scrutchins as starting shooting guard in place of fellow sophomore John Richter. While Richter was av­eraging only 5.0 points per game, Scrutchins has averaged 
14.3 ppg in his eight games as a starter. 
The Flyers feature a well-bal­anced scoring attack and have four players averaging in dou­ble figures. A fifth, Chip Jones, was averaging 23.6 ppg through five games before he was sidelined for the season with an injury. 
The Flyers enter the contest at 13-13, but are tough at home where they have compiled an 11-3 mark. The Dayton Arena is one of the tougher places to play in the country, as the Flyers were 25th in the country in attendance last season with an average crowd of 12,597. 
There are a few other factors Notre Dame must be concerned with going into tonight's game. Throughout the season, the Irish have tended to letdown and play to the level of their opponents, something they will have to avoid both tonight and on Thursday against Loyola (Ill.) at the JACC. "We are not going to talk about a letdown. We can't afford to because we are out of space. We only have six games left," MaeLeod commented. "We feel as if we are on a roll right now, and if there is a time to do it, this is the time." 
Another problem Notre Dame will have to deal with this week is the possible fatigue of playing four games in eight days. The simplest solution to this is effective play from the bench, and that is what the Irish have had lately. 
"We are beginning to get solid play from Malik Russell, Brooks Boyer, the Ross brothers and Lamarr Justice," MacLeod added. "It is an important thing that the younger people are getting into the flow of things, not being tentative, feeling confident and making contributions." 


Heavyweight Chuck Weaver hopes to fulfill NCAA dream 

BY JIM VOGL 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame heavyweight wrestler Chuck Weaver fits the image of the "othnr guy" in the infamous World Wrnstling Federation-the tuft of red hair that sets on top of his head·. the rotund figure stuffed into his blue Irish suit. the innocent grin on his eherubic faee. 
You can imagine him bound­ing from the top rope, or aeting out a sueknr punch by stomping his heel to the mat. llowever. by attending one meet you will un­derstand Weaver's work ethic is not show business. It is serious business. 
Weaver earned his first na­tional ranking two weeks ago, when he was ranked 18th after winning seven straight matches, including an upset over seventh-ranked Ray Mendoza of Ohio State. He cur-

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Senior Bob Heich and junior JoJo Gehl of the Notre Dame Skiing Club turned in excellent performances at the NCSA Midwest Hegional Skiing Championships, held at Michigan's Sugarloaf Mountain this weekend. 
The Irish men finished 11th and the women took fifth out of the 17 teams that qualified, but the team's overall performance was overshadowed by the indi­vidual efforts of Reich and Gehl. 
Heicl1 finished sixth in the men's slalom and eighth in the giant slalom, and Gehl won I Oth place in the women's slalom and 12th in the giant slalom. Their finishes qualify them for the NCSA Nationals, to be held March 11-14 in Lake Placid, N.Y. 
"I'm very excited," said Reich, a Oenver native. "After four years of hard work it has paid ofT in the end." 
Reich and Gehl are the first Notre Dame skiers ever to qualify for the Nationals. 
"We're very lucky since most of the teams that qualified are varsity," noted Reich, "That makes it that much more meaningful to make Nationals." 
In addition to their skiing 
rently boasts a 16-4-2 record with three of his losses coming against ranked opponents. 
llis pale Irish skin gets red with anger, intensity and sometimes, with blood. Although he looks like a true brawler, he considers himself "more of a technical wrestler." 
He looks huge and intimidat­ing, but Weaver slimmed down from 260 over the summer to 235, and admits that the better college heavyweights are ten pounds heavier. 
At Indiana University last weekend, Weaver faced Vito Maurici, who boasted an im­pressive 20-10-1 record. The Hoosiers' heavyw-eight, standing in at around 6-foot-3, 265 pounds, towered above Weaver, who lost 4-1. 
Still, size and strength are probably what got Weaver started. He sprouted up early, always being the biggest, 
prowess, both have earned the Smith-Corona Scholar Athlete Award, which includes a $1000 scholarship. 
Aside form Gehl. the Notre Dame women were led by junior Tracy Giovanoni, who finished 24th and 27th in the giant slalom and slalom events. In addition, senior Irish Stager finished 30th in the giant slalom. 
On the men's side, the 11th place finish was bolstered by the skiing of senior Tim Peterson. The North Mankato, 



Chuck Weaver 
strongest, most athletic kid in class. His first taste of athletics came on the football field at age five. 
Then, in the third grade, he caught the eye of a wrestling coach in a sporting goods store who asked him to try out. Except for one year since then, Weaver has always been a heavyweight. 
Weaver is an Oklahoma na­tive, where wrestling is taken 
Minnesota native finished 24th in the slalom and 32nd in the giant slalom. 
As for Reich and Gehl, even though they are venturing into uncharted waters, they are ready and eager to compete. 
"We just want to go out and ski well," noted Reich, "Some of the best competition in the U.S. will be there." 
The couple hope to further solidify their claim as the best skiers in Notre Dame history at historic Lake Placid, the site of the 1980 Winter Olympics. 

very seriously. 
"Oklahoma and Oklahoma State have always had power­house wrestling teams," said Weaver. "When you're a kid, you always look at the big state schools. I think it's a big moti­vator for young wrestlers." 
Despite the reputation of his home state, Notre Dame still managed to lure live of the 28 wrestlers on the current roster from Oklahoma, including All­American Marcus Gowens, who hails from Weaver's hometown of Del City. The two wrestled against each other as young­sters at the same YMCA pro­gram and as members of rival high schools. 
They were intent upon wrestling on the same team when it came time to choose a college. Weaver and Gowens visited Brown, West Point and Duke together before commit­ting to coach Fran McCann and the Irish. 
In high school, Weaver com­piled a 130-5-1 record over four years. He thoroughly dominated his competition, be­ing scored upon only once throughout his junior year. He left high school on top, winning 78 straight matches and being named Oklahoma's Wrestler of the Year. 
Yet his success was not limited to wrestling. lie was also valedictorian of his gradu­ating class. 
Weaver's first two years at Notre Dame were not as suc­cessful as his high school years. The low point came when Weaver was declared academi­cally ineligible for second semester of his junior year. 
"Ever since that happened, I totally changed my attitude around. I'm thinking a lot more 
see WEAVER/ page 17 
Reality hits home for USA at the Winter Olympics 
The Winter Olympics are over. Finally. 
Not that it was not exciting to watch cross country skiing and curling highlights. but when most people turn sports on television, they want. ..well, a sport they recognize. 
Now, do not get me wrong. I liked learning the intricacies of luge or the strategy 

involved in the 20-kilometer biathlon. ··· · "''"0 '':w;.;#& 
But was it worth $300 million for CBS to Rene Ferran introduce us to the fascinating world of Out of Bounds speed skiing? 
Frankly, aside from figure skating and hockey, how many people care about the results of the Olympics-unless there's an American in the medal hunt? Which does not appear to be too often. 
But what George Steinbrenner could not do for the Yankees, he's now trying with Olympic sports. He's pouring money into the effort to salvage wounded American pride after our "dismal" showing at the 1988 Olympics in Calgary and Seoul. 
The preliminary results-11 medals this year in Albertville, as opposed to only six four years ago. But four of those 11 were in sports that were not even part of the Olympic program in Calgary. 
As well, the U.S. team actually saw a drop in the total number of top-eight finishes (to which the International Olympic Committee awards certificates of achievement) from 25 four years ago to 24 this time around. And that is with the added Olympic disciplines. 
So what does that all mean? 
At least this Olympiad, we did not see Steinbrenner grabbing attention (as he did with so many World Series) by announcing a commission to analyze U.S. woes at the Olympics. 
Perhaps that's because with reflection, Americans realize that we just were not meant to be very good at some of these sports. 
see USA/ page 16 









