The Observer 
VOL. XXV. N0.63 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Petitions ask support for women's center 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Several campus women's groups are planning to circulate petitions next week in an attempt to spur enough student and faculty interest to start a women's resource center at Notre Dame. 
The Women's Resource Committee is spear-heading the attempt to establish a center for women's activities on campus with the help of several other organizations including Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) and Feminist Forum. 
Leaders of various groups met in the Library Pit yesterday to discuss objectives and stratagem for circulating the petitions around campus. 
"All we're asking for is a place to meet and coordinate events," said Linda Chalk of the Women's Resource Committee. "Look what were forced to do now-we're squished onto a lit­tle table in the basement of the library." 
Patty O'Donnell of the Com­mittee said their efforts to establish a resource center have been hit-and-miss. The Office of Student Activities has let the group set up petition signing stations in LaFortune Student Center, Hesburgh Library and both North and South Dining Halls, but but it took over a week to respond to O'Donnell's request, she said. 

O'Donnell said other Univer­sity offices have openly blocked the wishes of the Committee. 
"We asked the Office of De­velopment for a small office with a desk, a telephone and a filing cabinet," she said. "I came home from class one day and found a message from the Director of Development's sec­retary-I didn't even get a chance to talk to the director-on my answering machine that said 'There is no place for this matter at this time."' 
By circulating petitions, the group hopes to show University officials that there is student interest in a centrally located hub that coordinates speakers, literature and activiti{ls of women's groups on campus. 
"Petitions are the best way to get physical evidence and to make a point that students do want a women's resource cen­ter on campus," Chalk said. 
"This also allows us to feel out the administrations to see what their response will be," O'Donnell added. 
Funding for the resource center will come from national and regional women's groups. The committee already has 
see WOMEN I page 4 

HPC: Library open 24 hours during exams 

By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
In an effort to better accom­modate students during finals week, the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) will fund approx­imately $300 to pay the wages of the Hesburgh Library em­ployees so the entire library will remain open 24 hours from Dec. 13-17, according to Jason Coyle, HPC co-chair. 
"The Library seemed the most ideal place to increase the 24-hour study space available for students during finals," said Stanford Hall co-president Frank Flynn, who proposed the idea. 
"LaFortune Student Center would have been a much more expensive venture," he added. "The Library has more space and will require less funding." 
In other business, the dead­line for the Iceberg Debates is 

Performing Christmas Cheer 
Dec. 10, according to Angie Fitzgibbon, Seigfried Hall co­
"Christmas Time Around the World," events sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council, began president. 
last night with "Mr. Pickwick's Stories." Dickens play was presented at Washington Hall with the help see HPC I page 4 
of performers Bill Rogers and Robyn Hart. 

Student card to encourage safe driving 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Student Government and ND Safewalk has distributed Des­ignated Driver's Club cards to all Notre Dame students enti­tling them to complimentary soft drinks at five local bars in return for not consuming alco­hol and being the designated driver. 
The Alumni Senior Club, Coach's, C.J.'s, Commons and the Linebacker agreed to par­ticipate in the Designated Driver's Club on a permanent basis. Bridget's declined the offer. 
"The Designated Driver's Club Card is an option for peo­ple who do not want to drink and for safety," said R.G. Star­mann, director of ND Safewalk and Security Commissioner. "ND Safewalk is sponsoring the Designated Driver's Club Card because we are in the business of getting people home safely." 
Starmann added that he be­lieves students will not take advantage of the card. 
Student Body Vice-President Molly O'Neill said that it is ex­pected to create a good rela­tionship between the bars and the NO community. 
The card is primarily a "pro­active" step, according to O'Neill. "The more mainte­nance-type things we can do, the fewer problems we will face ahead." 
Though the card is not a re­actionary measure, it is just another incentive for students to prevent drunk driving, O'Neill added. 
"If this prevents one person from drinking and driving and killing someone, it is definitely worth the effort," she said. 
O'Neill said that although the statistics concerning drunk­see CARD I page 4 

US may send aid force to Somalia 
Thomas Foley 

discussions about Somalia one day after Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali recom­mended using military force to bring food to the starving So­malis. 
At his briefing, Williams also attempted to dampen specula­tion that up to 30,000 U.S. troops might be sent to Somalia should the U.N. Security Council authorize the use of troops. 
Williams termed the number, 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The United States prefers to retain total command of its forces should they go to Somalia, but 
U.S. military leaders will coop­erate with any plan the United Nations devises to alleviate the starvation, a Pentagon spokesman said Tuesday. 
"We'll work with the U.N. no matter what they come up with on it;" Pete Williams told re­porters at a Pentagon briefing. 
"It isn't a show-stopper," Williams added, indicating the command issue would not im­pede U.S. involvement in the relief effort. 
Williams spoke as diplomats at the United Nations met to discuss whether force should be used in Somalia and what role 
U.S. troops might play should a multinational effort be mounted. 
On Capitol Hill, congressional leaders voiced their support for the use of Americans. 
The Security Council began which surfaced in reports last week, "a little high," but he didn't offer a substitute figure. 
Pentagon sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, have said that the actual number would range between 12,000 to 20,000, depending upon the 
U.N. request and military assessments of the extent of the operation. 
The sources also said that a three-ship Marine amphibious unit will arrive off the coast of Somalia late Wednesday. 
After U.N. approval, the 1,800-man 15th Marine Expe­ditionary Unit would secure an airfield to land forces arriving later, the sources said. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, 0-Wash., told reporters the United States is very close to sending ground troops and said he supported such a move. 
The number sent should be "whatever is militarily sufficient 
see SOMALIA I page 6 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, December 2,1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Nuclear age brought peace, problems too 
Today either represents the anniversary of the greatest achievement in human history, or else it's most wicked. 
Fifty years ago, the United States was at war against Japan and Germany, and scientists Managing Editor 
were engaged in a global ________ race to make a weapon with destructive powers equal to the wrath of God. 
Fifty years ago today, Enrico Fermi and company finally split the atom. At the place o their achievement, just under two hours from Notre Dame, is a plaque which reads: "On December 2 1942, man achieved the first sel sustaining chain reaction and thereby initiated the controlled release of nuclear energy." 
The world has not been the same since. 
Within three years, J. Robert Oppenhiemer had figured out a way to harness the power o the atom into a bomb. One month later Japan realized the awesome power of the atom as two of their great cities were incinerated in the blink of an eye. 
The atom is a tricky thing. We haven't seen one yet, maybe never will, but can see its power everywhere. Atomic plants produce 75 percent of Chicago's energy and 17 percent of the world's. (AP Newsfeatures Report, Nov 16, 1992) 
Nuclear energy production doesn't emit those carbon dioxide baddies that coal does. Unfortunately, we have to bury nuclear waste in the ground for a couple of millenniums. 
Chernobyl? 
Nuclear capability may be too much responsibility for humans to handle. However, it is here and it will stay. It has to be kept out o the hands wacky terrorist groups and kept only for heating homes and producing products. 
As Ross Perot talked about during the recent election campaign, we have to make sure that the ICBMs are done away with-well all about them actually. 
Fortunately Reagan, Bush,Gorbechev and Yeltsin were and are aware and have been working to destroy these weapons. 
Nuclear morality is a hard thing to come to grips with. Maybe it would be better if we never figured the thing out in the first place. But we did, so we're stuck with it. 
After a long forty year cold war, some may argue that Einstein was full of it when he said that it's impossible to simultaneously prevent and prepare for war, but it looks as though the deterrent strength thing worked. (At least for the Unite States, which could afford to go into debt further than the Soviet Union.) 
Why then are we ridding ourselves of them? Because might does not make right and we have seen the error in nuclear weapons-the terror, the destruction. 
So Einstein was right, but only after he realized his wrong. Maybe someday, when we know for sure that the atom is a good thing, we will look back and thank Fermi. Or will we look back with disdain, like some do to Columbus, another explorer seeking to better the world o his time. 
It's funny, but after the famous Trinity test in July of 1945, where the first atomic bomb was detonated, one of the scientists working there muttered "Now we are all sons of bitches." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 


• 
In 1804: Napoleon was crowned emperor of France at the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. 

• 
In 1823: James Monroe outlined his doctrine opposing European expansion in the Western Hemisphere. 

• 
In 1942: A nuclear chain reaction was demonstrated for the first time by a group of scientists at the University of Chicago. 

• 
In 1954: The U.S. Senate voted to condemn Sen. Joseph McCarthy, R-Wis., for what it called "conduct that tends to bring the Senate into dishonor and disrepute." 

• 
In 1970: The Environmental Protection Agency began operating under director William Ruckelshaus. 

• 
In 1987: The Chicago City Council elected Eugene Sawyer mayor, succeeding the late Harold Washington. 





FORECAST 
Cloudy, windy and 
cold today with a 60 
percent chance of 
light snow. Highs in 
the mid-30s. Partly 
sunny and cold 
Thursday. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L 
Anchorage 44 30 Atlanta 54 34 Bogota 66 4B Cairo 73 52 Chicago 34 30" Cleveland 37 33 Dallas 67 33 Detroit 38 33 Indianapolis 35 30 Jerusalem 59 48 London 55 45 Los Angeles 78 50 Madrid 55 43 Minneapolis 42 19 Moscow 03 00 Nashville 48 33 New York 51 39 Paris 55 45 Philadelphia 53 34 Rome 63 48 Seattle 41 35

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 11192Accu-Wealher,lnc. 
South Bend 32 29 
PffJSSUTe 
Tokyo 61 46 Washington, D.C. 42 40

H L ~~[UJ ~EZ3g ~ d 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRES SNOW ICE SUNNY CLOUDY 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATION 

theaters over the long Th weekend to help "Home Alone in New York" and the animate "Aladdin" earn a combined $64.1 million. Movies grossing more $500,000 a piece earned a total $134.3 million over the five-d weekend, making it the best of the year. The previous Thanksgiving record was $99.1 million in 1991. "Home Alone 2," starring Macaulay Culkin, earned $39 million for first place at the weekend box office. according to figures released Monday by Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. "Aladdin" finished second with $25.1 million. 
Holid, Inn sued for peeping 
OF INTEREST 
•The 
Entrepreneur Club of Notre Dame will meet at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. New members are welcome. Students sign-ups for our activities and divi­sions. Membership dues of $10 will be collected, and checks can be made payable to the Entrepreneur Club. If you have questions, call Gene at 283-1545 or Tim at 283­1061. 

•Attention 
siblings of handicapped persons, if you would like to spend some time with the brother or sister of a Logan center client, please come to an informative meeting at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 

•saint 
Mary's student body president or vice president candidates must attend a mandatory meeting either Wednesday or Thursday at 7 p.m. in room 304 in Haggar. 

•ND/SMC 
Right To Life will hold an important or­ganizational meeting at 7:30 p.m. in Hayes-Healy, room 


Monday it was checking all 1,700 of its hotels for peepholes, but said the problem wasn't widespread. The inspection comes after guests of Holiday Inns in South Carolina and Tennessee discovered peepholes in their rooms and sued. 
INDIANA 

Man sta¥s in cage for POWs and MIAs 
223. Representatives from Collegians Activated to Liber­ate Life will be on hand. Information regarding Washing­ton, D.C. will also be discussed. 
•The 
American Cancer Society Club has a Christmas tree in LaFortune. For a small donation, or­naments in honor of someone you love may be purchased. See the tables in NDH and SOH all this week at dinner and in the Huddle. 

•A 
Hospitality Luncheon will be held at the Center for Social Concerns on Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 


p.m. Benefits will go to the Aids Ministries Committee. 
•Forms 
for changing dorms are available in Student Residences, 311 Main Bldg. now until December 7. 1992. 

•Resident 
Assistant applications are now available in the office of Student Affairs, Room 315 Administration Building through Friday, January 22, 1993. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
The Observer. 
Today's Staff Production Sports Peggy Crooks Jason Kelly Bryan Nowicki Lab Tech News Pat McHugh Julie Barret Accent Kenya Johnson Julie Wilkens Systems Mary Schultze Harry Zembillas John Logiudice 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 230,066,311 -.25 to 20 

S&P COMPOSITE -.57 to 430.78 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -10.80 to 3,294.36 
GOLD +S0.80 to $335.10 oz 
SILVER +S0.001 to $3.730 oz 
----------~
~-----~--~--­
Wednesday, December 2,1992 The Observer page~ 
Crowe receives award from French foundation 
Special to The Observer 
Twenty-five years after writ­ing one of the defining books on the history of vector calcu­lus, Notre Dame professor Michael Crowe has been honored with a $4,000 excel­lence award from the Jean Scott Foundation of France. 
The Foundation honored Crowe, a professor in the pro­gram of liberal studies, Wednesday in Paris for his 1967 book "A History of Vector Analysis: The Evolution of the Idea of .,a Vectorial System." Crowe was represented at the award presentation by Father 
E. Gerard Carroll, director of Notre Dame's international studies program in Angers, France. 
Crowe is one of several scholars honored by the Jean Scott Foundation and La Maison des Sciences de l'Homme for research on the comparative history of imaginary, complex and hyper­complex numbers as well as the origins of vectorial calculus. 

Michael J. Crowe 
Crowe's book, first published by the University of Notre Dame Press, is based on Crowe's doctoral dissertation under Professor Erwin Niebert at the University of Wisconsin. It was reprinted in paperback in 1985 by Dover Publications. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1961, Crowe earned bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees from ND in 1958 and a doctorate in the history of science from Wisconsin in 1965. 


Americans mark world AI OS Day with protest~, commemorations 
ATLANTA (AP) -The United States must enlist people and businesses to defeat AIDS and reject bureaucratic solutions such as President-elect Clin­ton's plan for an AIDS czar, the secretary of Health and Human Services said Tuesday. 
Dr. Louis Sullivan marked World AIDS Day by launching a new program to help compa­nies keep employees infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, working as long as pos­sible. 
Elsewhere, vandals painted an AIDS message on the state Capitol in Denver, museums removed paintings to remem­ber stricken artists and flags flew at half staff along Fifth Av­enue in New York City. 
Thirty-five cable TV compa­nies planned to go off the air for a minute Tuesday night to emphasize the loss caused by AIDS deaths in the industry. 
Sullivan said such efforts in­crease AIDS awareness in ways a national AIDS official couldn't. 
"The AIDS czar in this country is the secretary of Health and Human Services," Sullivan said. "The one way to inhibit innovation and flexibility needed to fight AIDS is a larger bureaucracy." 
He called on Congress and Clinton to adopt laws prohibit­ing companies from revoking AIDS patients' insurance, which the U.S. Supreme Court has said is legal. 
Clinton urged the world to work together in fighting AIDS. 
"For too long, America and the world have faced this epi­demic divided and frightened," he said from Little Rock, Ark. "Today we must all pledge to work together on the research and prevention programs that will make the AIDS epidemic a part of our past." 
Sullivan and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention launched a program to help corporate America establish 




ATTENTION JUNIORS AND SENIORS 
ECHOING GREEN PUBLIC SERVICE FELLOWSHIP 
Are you different enough to make a difference after graduation? 
Would you start a homeless education project? Initiate a school dropout prevention program? Or work with street children in Brazil? 
Last year, some outstanding graduates chose to make those differences. So can you. 
Echoing Green foundation is looking for outstanding young leaders with vision and a spirit for public service. The Echoing Green Public Service Fellowship offers talent­ed and committed individuals the opportunity to turn their ideas into reality. The Fellowship provides a $15,000 stipend for one year to assist young public service entrepreneurs in launching innovative projects to effect social change. Projects may be started in any field of public service including the arts, education, housing, health,intemational development, youth development, or the environment. Your only limit is your creativity and energy! 
INTERESTED IN FINDING OUT MORE? 
Come to: Day: Time: 

The Hesburgh Library Lounge Today, Wednesday, December 2 4p.m. 
Dolly Saengswang, Program Director from Echoing Green will give an info_,rmation session on the Fellowship and answer all your questions. 
workplace AIDS policies, train supervisors to deal with in­fected employees, educate em­ployees and their families and encourage community service. 
Actress Estelle Getty endorsed "Business Responds to AIDS" in a national teleconference, urging Americans to help HIV patients like her nephew. 
"He thought if he left it alone it would go away, he would get better," Getty said from Los Angeles. "If you love somebody with AIDS ... you will feel better about yourself." 
About 1 million Americans are infected with HIV. The majority are ages 25-44, the group that makes up most of the nation's workforce. There are 242,146 
U.S. AIDS patients. 
About 50 people gathered at the United Nations in New York to protest the World Health Or­ganization's theme for the day, "community commitment." They demanded the creation of a global public health-keeping force instead of concentrating on community responses to AIDS. 

'!1:1 511\NLEY H. KAPlAN
!.Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 

Thursday, December IOth at 8pm s.'I'~'I':E. TH~ATK~ Downtown Kalamazoo/ MI 
On sale now atall Ticketmasters and the State Theatre box office. Charge by phone at 616-345-6500 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1992 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Hubble Space Telescope has captured views of what may be the most distant cluster of galaxies ever sighted, a group of objects seven billion to 10 billion light years away, an as­tronomer said Tuesday. 
Alan Dressler of the Carnegie Institution in Washington said views of the distant objects were found in the background of a study of galaxies about 4 billion light years away. 
Dressler said that to a ground­based telescope the objects would be "just a bunch of fuzzy blobs" but that the Hubble, sighting from above the distorting influence of the Earth's atmosphere, can re­solve the points of light into distinct features. 

Women 
continued from page 1 
$600 in a Graduate Student Union fund which can easily be 


CARD 
continued from page 1 
driving tragedies can become depersonalized, the problem affects everyone, and it is im­portant for the student body to address the issue "on a more positive note." 
The project is in conjunction 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
The teams consist of four members, she said, and it will be optional to have one team­mate of the opposite sex or from another dorm. 
This week during lunchtime at the Huddle, and Dining Halls, The American Cancer Society will be selling star ornaments for $1, said Marianne Ravry, HPC co-chair. 
A light year is the distance that light will travel in a vac­uum in one year, about 6 tril­lion miles. Since it takes such a long time for the light to travel from its source to Earth, what is sighted is actually a view of the moment that the light was created and not as things are now. As a result, light that has traveled for 10 billion years shows the conditions of 10 bil­lion years ago. This means the galaxies sighted are seen as they were near the beginning of the universe, thought to be some 12 to 15 billion years ago. 
The grouping consists of 30 to 40 bright points that Dressler said could be light streaming from the star-forming violence within the galaxies. 
reallocated to the resource center once it is established. 
"Our idea is to get funding from outside the University ini­tially, and then hopefully get matching funds from the Uni-

Chemical causing obesity in diabetic patients found 

In one corner of the group, he said, is a quasar that is known from other studies to be about 10 billion light years away. Quasars, or quasi-stellar objects, are thought to be bright, active cores of primitive galaxies and most are found at points 10 billion light years away. 
"Though the superposition of the cluster objects and the quasar could be a coincidence, both are so unusual that there is good reason to believe they are all members of the same cluster," said Dressler. 
The objects do not appear to be in the elliptical, spiral or round shapes most common among nearby galaxies, he said. 
versity once the center becomes fully operational," Chalk said. "Saint Mary's has established their Women's Resource Center as a club, so they automatically get $1,000." 
Happy 21st, Darren and Woody! 
Here's to another year of bonding... could you possibly get any closer? 

Countrg 
MIAMI (AP) -Researchers said Tuesday they have identi­fied a chemical in the brain that is the likely culprit for the insa­tiable appetite and obesity plaguing diabetics. 
The research team tested laboratory rats, zeroing in on abnormal levels of the neu­ropeptide Y, called NPY, ac­cording to their study published in the December issue of En­docrinology. 
"The overproduction of NPY may be an underlying cause of some of the severe complica­tions of diabetes," said Dr. Satya Kalra, a study leader and professor of obstetrics and gy­necology at the University of Florida's medical school in Gainesville. 
"Overstimulation of NPY in diabe.tics may cause the in­creased prevalence of appetite and obesity, high blood pres­sure and impaired reproductive function," he said. 
The rats provide an animal model for insulin-dependent diabetes, Kalra said. More than 1 million Americans require daily doses of insulin to survive. The disease, which usually strikes during childhood or adolescence, can lead to blind­ness, kidney failure, heart at­tacks and circulatory problems. It also reduces average life ex­pectancy by about one-third. 
NPY stimulates the appetite, and diabetes appears to cause overproduction of the chemical, said the research team, made up of doctors from the Univer­sity of Florida Brain Center, the Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the University of South Florida in Tampa. 
Dr. Xavier Pi-Sunyer, presi­dent of the American Diabetes Association, was cautious about the findings. 
"I think these are interesting results," he said. "They confirm studies by other investigators in animals, but there are no data to date in humans." 
He said more studies will be necessary to deterrii'ine the significance of the NPY discov­ery. 
Kalra said the research also could produce benefits in non­diabetics. 
Other scientists have previ­ously cited abnormal levels of the chemical in disorders such as obesity and anorexia ner­vosa, and in impaired secretion of sex hormones required for ovulation and reproduction. 
Now that the researchers have located the brain sites where abnormal NPY secretion occurs, Kalra said, new thera­peutic approaches can be de­signed for alleviating those dis­orders. 
The brain peptide represents a potential new area for exper­imental therapies designed to reverse diabetes-related obesity as well as other complications of the ravaging disease, brain researchers say. 
with ND Health and Safety Awareness Week. 
"The Designated Driver's Club is a great way to promote both health and safety at Notre Dame," said Ellen Hujarski, ex-

The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Business Editor Assistant News Editor Copy Editor 
Ifinterested, submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Dave Kinney by Thurs. Dec. 3 questions, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
and Happy Holidays! 

239-6714 
Lower Level LaFortune Notre Dame 
ecutive coordinator of Student Life for Student Government. 
Off-campus students can pick up their Designated Driver's Club Card at the Student Gov­ernment office. 


Enjoy Holiday Refreshments as you 
browse among our great gift ideas. 
Begin your "Irish Village· Collection Today with wood replicas of the Ad Building and Sacred Heart Basilica. 
Smile as you read Suzy's Zoo and Farside Christmas cards, and don't forget. all of the ornaments and Christmas decorations are hand crafted! 
See You Soon, 

1{arvester 
Monday thru Friday Nov. 30th · Dec. 4th I 0 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Saturday December 5th. I I a.m. to 3 p.m. 

Environment 
page5

Wednesda,y, December 2, 1992 
Los Angeles' pollution ranks with world's worst EPA aims 
GENEVA (AP) -New York, London and Tokyo have the cleanest air of the world's largest cities, and Mexico City the dirtiest, a U.N. study said Tuesday. Los Angeles' ozone pollution is among the world's worst. 
Air in many developing coun­tries is getting more dangerous, with heavy metals like mercury and cancer-causing chemicals increasingly entering the mix, it said. 
The study by the World Health Organization and U.N. Environment Program was presented to reporters by Dr. Michael Gwinn of the environ­ment agency. 
It warned that air pollution will increasingly cause health problems as more people move to cities, including damage to the heart, lungs and brain. A 
U.N. prediction reckons 47 percent of the world's popula­tion will live in urban areas by the year 2000. 
Cities in developed countries have done much to improve air quality, but poorer lands lack the money to tackle the prob­lem, the report's authors said. 
The two agencies examined the air quality of 20 "megacities," which they said already had populations of at least 10 million or were ex­pected to reach that number by 2000. 
They said it was the first comprehensive overview of world air pollution. 
The problems of Mexico City, which is ringed by mountains. 

are made worse because of the thin air at its 7 ,349-foot eleva­tion. 
It was the only city with as many as four pollutants at twice the highest levels recommended by WHO -~ulfur dioxide, dust, carbon monoxide and ozone. 
But all the major pollutants ­which also include lead and nitrogen oxides -were present in each of the cities, the report said. 
Some problems cited: 
-Dust storms frequently foul the air of Beijing; Cairo, Egypt; New Delhi, India; Karachi, Pakistan, and Mexico City. 
Motor vehicles are the main source of pollution in most of the cities, especially in Los An­geles. Its 8 million registered vehicles were double the num­her in second-place Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
Los Angeles was one of four cities reporting ozone levels at more than twice the WHO limit. 
Ozone is particularly a prob­lem in sunny cities with lots of cars. It is formed when sunlight works on chemicals in auto exhaust once they are in the atmosphere. 
Seoul, South Korea; Karachi; Cairo; and Beijing each re­ported two pollutants at levels of more than double the WHO limits, and nine cities ­Bangkok, Thailand; Bombay, Calcutta and New Delhi, India; Jakarta, Indonesia; Los Ange­les; Manila, the Philippines; Sao Paulo; Shanghai, China, and Tokyo were each double the WHO limits for one pollutant. 
at reducing dumping 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Environmental Protection Agency announced new regu­lations Tuesday for treating sewage, hoping that revised federal standards will lead to wider recycling of the waste, instead of dumping it into landfills. 
"Almost all sewage sludge can be used safely on our farms, gardens, golf courses, lawns and forests," said Martha Prothro, the EPA's deputy assistant administrator for water programs. 
The federal standards are to ensure that sludge is ade­quately processed to reduce 


harmful pollutants, limit toxic

Nuclear waste cleanup 
chemicals, and reduce odor, 
officials said. The EPA estimates that public 

could take 12 years 
and private waste treatment 

ROCKVILLE, Md. (AP) -The regulations. facilities nationwide handle cleanup of radioactive and toxic Joe Sheppard, president of nearly 8 million dry metric wastes at a soon-to"be-closed Sequoyah Fuels Corp., told the tons of processed sludge a year uranium processing plant in NRC staff that he expected to but that only about a third is
LUB 

• 
Oklahoma may take as long as have a detailed cleanup plan in recycled for beneficial uses. a dozen years, operators of the two months outlining how Much of the rest goes into 
plant said Tuesday. much money would be avail­landfills or is burned. 
Executives of the Sequoyah able and various cleanup op­"This rule, setting standards Fuels Corp., in a briefing for tions. for potential sludge contami­staff of the Nuclear Regulatory nants is intended to assure that Commission, also raised the Sheppard predicted much of what once was considered possibility that some the cleanup, including removal waste can now, in fact, be put
Wednesday 

radioactive materials, primarily of contaminated equipment and to good use as fertilizer on contaminated soil, may remain surface materials, would be farms, lawns, gardens and permanently buried on the site completed over the next three other lands," said EPA Admin­
7-9: Free Papa Johns Pizza 
near Gore, Okla., 60 miles years, but that dealing with istrator William Reilly. southeast of Tulsa. some wastes, including con­The regulation applies to
$1 cover 

Sequoyah announced a week taminated soil, would take as sewage sludge removed during ago that it was closing the facil­long as 12 years. the treatment of municipal ity, which repeatedly has been Neither Sheppard nor officials waste water at nearly 10,000
9-2: celebrate diversity and 
cited by the government for from the plant's owner, General public and private treatment environmental and safety vio­Atomics, a nuclear engineering plants. ·
travel around the world. 

lations. The company attributed company in LaJolla, Calif., Prothro said that it is hoped 
the closing to declining demand would say how much money that about two-thirds of the 
for uranium for nuclear power they are prepared to spend on treated sludge will be used for
must be 21 

plant fuel and to the increasing the cleanup. beneficial purposes by the turn 
cost of meeting environmental The company has put cleanup of the decade. costs at $5 million, but Nevertheless, she said that environmentalists have claimed the EPA and local governments that it is likely to be many times still have a sizeable selling job that amount. Sheppard to do before sludge will be acknowledged Tuesday the $5 widely accepted as a common

NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
million is low. lawn and garden fertilizer. 
STUDENTS 

Applications to Notre Dame International Study Programs in 
Newly Remodeled 
Angers, France, Dublin, Ireland 
Notre Dame
Fremantle, Australia Innsbruck, Austria Mexico City, Mexico 
Apartments
Nagoya, Japan 
Santiago, Chile 

Now available for the
Toledo, Spain 

2nd semester and
FOR 1993-94 

'93 ~ '94 school year
ARE NOW DUE! 

Call232 ~ 8256 for info
For additional information Contact: International Study Programs 
and scheduled showings
420 Main Building 239-5882 

-------------~ ~--­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, December 2, 1992 
Government, ANC to discuss date for multiracial e-lections 
JOHANNESBURG, South 
Buthelezi's Inkatha movement Africa (AP) -President F.W. de on Tuesday released its own Klerk's government and the constitutional plans, which call ANC are to begin three days of for a federal system that would private talks Wednesday to try grant strong powers to regional to set a timetable for elections governments and limit the role that will include blacks for the of the national government. first time. Buthelezi has hinted that the 
The African National KwaZulu black homeland, Congress, the leading black which he governs, might secede group, wants elections for a from South Africa if he is not multiracial interim government satisfied with the new political in the latter half of 1993, while system now being negotiated. de Klerk has proposed polls in Some observers suggested that early 1994. Buthelezi's plan was a first step 
resumption of multi-party talks

"The main purpose of that toward secession, but Buthelezi 
to end white minority rule,

meeting is to set the date for the denied this. 
which broke down in June over

installation of an interim He said South Africa needed a
political violence in black town­

government," ANC leader Nel­federal system and strong
ships. If the ANC and the gov­

son Mandela said Monday. regional governments to 
ernment fail to agree, there is

But de Klerk has cautioned "ensure that all cultural and po­
virtually no hope of political

that much hard bargaining litical formations are repre­
progress.

remains. The government, the sented in the legislature." 
The two sides have not dis­

ANC and other opposition Buthelezi draws his support
closed where they are meeting

groups must reach a series of from Zulus in the eastern
and are not expected to release

agreements and curb political province of Natal and has little
details until they finish Friday.

violence before an election. support elsewhere. His proposal
Mangosuthu Buthelezi, leader

De Klerk has dismantled the would give him an influential or
of the Inkatha Freedom Party,

major apartheid laws since he leading role in Natal even if he 
the country's second strongest

took power in 1989. Now he were unable to gain a
black group, has been upset at

seeks to negotiate a new consti­prominent post in a national
his exclusion from the talks.

tution that would usher in government.
Any government-ANC

black-white power sharing and Buthelezi's supporters and
agreements might further anger

allow the 30 million blacks to ANC followers are the main
the Zulu leader, whose militant

vote. combatants in violence that has 
followers could play the role of

A successful ANC-government claimed some 9,000 black lives
spoilers.

meeting could help prod in the past three years. 
Satellite photos show new construction at North Korea's largest nuclear complex 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -Western officials are con­construction secret even after North Korea, long thought to be cerned that the north's hard­pledging openness about a working on an atomic bomb, line Communist regime is trying nuclear program it claims is has attempted to camouflage to conceal a nuclear weapons peaceful. new construction near its program at Yongbyon despite largest nuclear complex, intel­denials by its leaders and a "If the North Koreans are ligence sources said today. partial opening this year to continuing to build facilities 
Highly reliable Western and international inspectors. which look to be of a technical South Korean sources told The Yongbyon is 60 miles north­nature adjacent to Yongbyon, Associated Press that new U.S. west of the North Korean capi­and if they have not shown or satellite photographs show re­tal, Pyongyang. declared them, we should be cent construction near the nu­deeply concerned," said Dr. clear facilities at Yongbyon. The intelligence sources said Peter D. Zimmerman, a spe­
The officials, who spoke on the significance of the new cialist in arms control and veri­condition of anonymity, declined construction lies in its proximity fication at the Center for to discuss the full scope of the to suspicious nuclear facilities Strategic and International construction or to speculate on and in "irrefutable evidence" Studies, a Washington-based its purpose. that North Korea kept the private institute. 
U.S. forces, Williams said con­Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., tingency planning "is moving
Somalia 
chairman of the Armed Services along smartly," and that Marine Committee, said the mission Corps Gen. Joseph Hoar is in
continued from page 1 
should not be open-ended and charge.
to ensure that the task of 
should be defined very clearly. Hoar is the four-star generalguaranteeing relief can be car­"Certainly, there is always some in charge of the Central Com­ried out" and to minimize Joss risk when you employ military mand, the military organization of life, he said. 
force," Nunn said. responsible for the Mideast and Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., 
The two senators spoke to African regions based in
said, "The United States has to reporters after meeting with Tampa, Fla. 
take the leadership role." But Acting Secretary of State Williams refused to say what
he added that an American 
Lawrence S. Eagleburger about U.S. units might be sent to the
commander should be in 
their recent trip to the former region, He said speculation wascharge of the U.S. troops and Soviet Union. premature and "there are nothere must be a "clear way" for Asked about plans for using U.S. forces on alert."
them to get out of the country. 
Eight aboard Saratoga accused of fatal firing 
NAPLES. Italy (AP) __.., A U.S. steps are taken. Navy court on Tuesday The court of inquiry rejected rejected a court-martial for courts-martial because it officers and crewmen involved found the firing was accidental in the accidental firing of a and there was a lack of missile that killed five Turkish criminal intent, said Capt. Jim sailors. But it ordered Mitchell. an official at NATO disciplinary hearings that offices in Naples, where the could end tbe careers of the court's findings were released American servicemen. at a news conference. 
Navy officials would not "It was a hard decision," identify the eight sailors Mitchell said. aboard the aircraft carrier Adm. Mike Boorda, com­Saratoga being held respon~ mander of U.S. naval forces in sible for the Oct. 1 firing of a Europe, said the primary missile that hit a Turkish de-cause of the accident was a stroyer during NATO ma-last-minute decisiO'n to include neuvers. Sea Sparrow missiles in an 
Military sources in Wa$h• unscheduled midnight drill. ington, however, said one was Confused sailors awakened the ship's commander, Capt. for the drill thought it was an James Drager. Drager, who actual attack and fired the has been one of the Navy's missiles, he said. rising stars, was the first The combat directions center helicopter pilot to command officer who decided to include an aircraft carrier. the Sea Sparrows is one of the 
Confused sailors awakened eight who risk administrative for a drill during NATO punishment, Boorda said. exercises in the Aegean Sea Another is the petty officer thought it was an actual at-who gave the order to fire tack and fired two anti.•ship witbout consulting his missiles, the commander of superiors. 
U.S. naval forces in Europe Boorda said everyone in the said; combat directions center knew 
Turkey said Monday it was it was an exercise but the satisfh;d the firing .was 11nin+ ···petty officer. tentional ·but demanded · The crewman, who was not courts*martial for those re* briefed, was told to get ready sponsil>l~.: 1'\lrkJsh Def(mse to fire. Minister Nevzat Ayaz said the When the Sea Sparrow crew mtss.U~.s .wer~.fired "because.. asked him if it were a "real of ill discipline. inadequate world situation,M the crewman training and insutncient crew ..... replied, ")'~s." Boorda said. coordination/' ,.ii• ' As soon as the missiles were 
Ayaz's office said he was not fired and the crew realized the available ·for .!]t.;eontment · · errt:J:t'; the enlisted man Tuesday. . " . . exclaimed, "J thought this was 
However, .•~ 1\trkish ~litary •real world," then put his head official in Ankara, speaking down on the console in Tuesday on condition of despair, Boorda said. anonymJty~ said ·.·that it' The disciplinary hearing,· to reprimands are acceptable to take place in the next few the A;merie~n pu})lici tJ1ey days> could result in an official would be acceptable for letter of reprimand that could Turkey. effectively end the sailors· 
He said theState Department careers. After such disciplinary and Turkish Foreign Ministry procedures. promotion is would be discussin~ the ·issue unlili:ely and officers or senior fUrther and it would be up to enlisted men or women 
U.S. authorities to decide what generally leave the service. 
Prep Plus'" · For the MCAT: The Best Medical Insurance 
TODAY 
is the day to QUIT SMOKING 

DUDE, 

Hope you had a happy birthday M·ariah! 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course ...at no charge! 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE" labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
liSTANLEY H. KAPlAN 
£Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today! 
_..------­
----~---~--~-­

Wednesday, December 2, 1992 The Observer page7 
Airlift to Bosnia stopped after struck by gunfire 
U.S. Plane Struck by Gunfire On Landing Approach, Airlift Suspended 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -The humanitar­ian airlift to Bosnia was sus­pended Tuesday after small­arms fire struck part of the steering system of a U.S. Air Force transport plane on its landing approach to Sarajevo. 
Bosnia's president meanwhile urged "decisive stands" by Islamic states to aid his country, whose Muslims and Croats voted for independence in February and then disinte­grated into civil war against the republic's Serbs. 
The C-130 Hercules that was shot in the rudder while ap­proaching the Bosnian capital was able to land safely, unload its relief supplies and return to Zagreb, Croatia, said Peter Kessler, a spokesman for the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
Kessler said the airlift to the Bosnian capital, encircled by Serb forces, was likely to re­main suspended at least through Wednesday while U.N. liaison officers investigate the source of the shooting. 
Twenty flights carrying food, medicine and other relief sup­plies were scheduled to land Tuesday in Sarajevo, but only 10 arrived before the airlift was suspended. 
Earlier, Bosnia's army command had accused the Serbs of shelling the airport runway overnight "with the intention of destroying the radar system and thus stopping the humanitarian flights." 
Serb forces, backed by Serb­dominated Yugoslavia, have captured more than 70 percent of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Croat forces hold most of the rest. 
More than 17,000 people have been killed in the fighting, the Bosnian Health Ministry reported Monday. 
Bosnia's Muslim President, Alija Izetbegovic, appealed for Islamic solidarity and action at a conference of the 4 7-member Organization of Islamic Confer­ence in Saudi Arabia. 
"International resolutions have remained empty words and the time has come for deci­sive stands," Izetbegovic told foreign ministers in Jiddah. 
Saudi Arabia's King Fahd called for an end to a U.N. arms embargo on Bosnia that has crippled Sarajevo's defenders, who are hopelessly outgunned by Serbs. 
The Bosnian army comman­der said in a newspaper inter­view that his forces were "preparing intensively" for an offensive to break the Serbian siege on Sarajevo, site of the 1984 Winter Games. 
In an interview in Monday's edition of the Oslobodjenje newspaper, Bosnian army chief Gen. Mustafa Hajrulahovic said his forces lacked materiel but were "now capable of some offensive movement." 
He refused to say when the offensive would be launched, but that it would be "a battle of many days in which nothing can be left to chance." 
Several previous attempts to break the Serbian artillery vise around Sarajevo have failed. 
Oslobodjenje, the only Sara­jevo newspaper still publishing, has had to drastically reduce production. It is often difficult to obtain copies on the day of issue due to popular demand and distribution problems. 


Ill 
::z:: 
1­

BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -Two bombs that ex­ploded within hours of each other in a busy downtown shopping center left 27 people injured, police said Tuesday. 
The Irish Republican Army in a telephone call to a Belfast organization said it planted the device that exploded in a stair­well of an office building in the Ann Street pedestrian mall, causing injuries and damaging shops. 
A second bomb went off six hours later in the afternoon at an electrical components shop on nearby Ormeau Avenue but caused no injuries. There was no immediate claim of respon­sibility. Police said two youths left a package on the counter of the Edgar Lowe store and fled. 

Seniors Friday Lunch 
12 2 
l11USt be 21 

Three of the bomb victims were seriously injured. City Hospital and Royal Victor Hos­pital were treating the victims, a Royal Ulster Constabulary spokesman said. 
Security around Belfast had been tight in recent weeks amid police warnings that the IRA, which is fighting British rule in Northern Ireland, planned a pre-Christmas bombing campaign. 
Rev. Peter Barrett, who went to the scene of the first explo­sion to comfort the injured, said the bombing was an unwel­come start to the Christmas season. 
"It is not the sort of thing one thinks one should start the month of December off with," he said. 
Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Bri­tish Cabinet minister responsi­ble for Northern Ireland, con­demned the Ann Street bomb­ing and the "callous disregard that the IRA have for ordinary human beings." 
The manager of the Standard Supply Co., an office supplies company based in the Ann Street building, said his company got a warning call "less than 10 minutes before the blast." 
"It wasn't enough time (to evacuate)." David Walker said. 
Walker said several members of his staff were injured, including one suffering from burns and another from eye injuries. 
Helen Oakes, manager of the Pricewise clothing shop across the street, said she heard "a big explosion. I knew it was near. Everybody was panicking. Outside there was smoke and glass everywhere and people were throwing chairs out windows of upper floors. They were trapped up there." 
Standard Supply Co. is down the street from a police station and the Belfast High Court. 
Are You The Sibling Of A Person With A Disability? LOGAN and the CSC Invite You To Join 
''Super Sibs'' 
A Chance To Share Your Time With Children Who Have Disabled Siblings 
Organizational Meeting Tonight, Wednesday, December 2 Center lor Social Concerns 7:00p.m. 
If You Want to Be a Lawyer, 
Stm·tPracticul!J Now. 
One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The anawer to the teat queatlon. 
r-----------------·----------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~------------------------------------~~~ 
Viewpoint 
page 8 
The Observer 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ..................•.•. David Kinney Advertising Manager .....•.. Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ........•......... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Designated Driver program gets underway at local bars 
Dear Editor: 
Imagine you're at a local South Bend tavern. You've been drinking (big shock). Heavily or lightly, the fact remains that you've been drinking and should not be driving. 
You turn to Joe Buddy and wonder if he's in any shape to give you a ride back to campus. You watch your friend pull a card out of his back pocket and present it to the bartender. To your amazement he takes his drink and walks away without paying!! 
Welcome to the Designated Driver Club. Finally a system has been established to pro­mote designated drivers in a bar atmosphere. 
To kick off Health and Safety Awareness Week, Student Gov­ernment will be sending every Notre Dame student a Desig­nated Driver Card. Put it in your pocket, your wallet, what­ever. 
If appointed designated driver for the night, present this card to your friendly bartender, under the agreement that you have not and will not drink alcohol that evening, and receive free soft drinks! 
Five bars in the Notre Dame area have agreed to participate in this program on a permanent basis. They are as follows: Senior Bar, The Linebacker, Coach's The Commons, and CJ's. Hopefully your favorite tavern is on the list. 
The bars have been hos­pitable enough to promote this program so please do not abuse the privilege. The goal here is a sober driver and a safe way home. 
The Designated Driver Club is sponsored by Student Govern­ment and ND Safewalk. Even­tually we hope to expand the program by convincing more bars to provide free soft drinks. Until that time, take advantage of being a designated driver and use your card at the five participating bars. 
Tanya M. Bulakowski Alcohol/Drug/Food/Health Commissioner Student Government Nov. 30, 1992 


~~ 
1 

Give peoples' minds something to expan~ 
upon while their mouths chew food. 
Wednesday, December 2, 1992 

Students apathetic about AIDS 
Dear Editor: 
The Student Government, with University support and approval, recently invited Beth Kellogg, St. Joseph County Health Department, and me (Susan Kraska, RN, CIC, Infec­tion Control Practitioner, Memorial Hospital of South Bend) on campus. The purpose of our presence was to provide HIV/AIDS education and infor­mation. 
The format was simple; brochures and poster displays, ongoing video presentations, and one-on-one discussions to answer questions, convey in­formation, and present a gen­eral sense of what going through HIV testing is like, through no actual testing was offered. 
The Student Government is to be applauded for their efforts in raising AIDS awareness. The student body is to be chided for their apathy. Four students (that's right 4 students) out of an estimate 10,000 found their way to LaFortune Student Center between 10 a.m. and 3 the century, eclipsing the in­
p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 18th. fluenza scourge of 1918. Will 
The current rate of HIV in­the Notre Dame student body fection in the U.S. now is 1 in be ready? 
250 Americans. This rate of infection can no longer be ig­nored. We urge the University student body to raise their level of awareness through educa­tion, today. 
The VIII International Con­ference on AIDS held in Ams­terdam this past summer has indicated that by 1999 AIDS will become the largest epidemic of 

Susan Kraska RN, CIC Infection Control Practitioner Memorial Hospital of South Bend Beth Kellogg St. Joseph County Health Dept. Nov. 24, 1992 

Homeless should take over a state 
Dear Editor: story about how all these poor 
After reading all the fine ar­people of this foreign country ticles about the homeless I tried need food or they will die of to think up solutions to their starvation. The government problems. Like most other would send tons and tons of Notre Dame students I try to food to this foreign country to solve the world's problems in fight starvation. 
J between reruns of Cheers and Murphy Brown and also during Then when fighting in this
Make it constructive, creative and clear. 
the commercials. foreign country breaks out be­( cause the homeless want more My solution is somewhat and more food the government simple for the homeless starv­would threaten to send troops ing in the United States. All they over to ensure everyone gets
VfEWPOINf 

have to do is unite and take the right amount of food. The
PO 80X 0. HD. fH 46556 

'over one of the fifty states and media would keep running new declare it a country. The media stories about how if the United
1 
~ ~ 
~~~ 

~
?.OO...:O"'<.:N~?-ooo.,c"'<.:;>o.<~?-o..oo.,c~~?--OO...O"'<=N~~....-.l~would run new story after new States does not act then some 
sort of humanity or moral law will be broken. 
If one does not think this so­lution would not work then just look at what is going on with Somalia. I guess my point is that if the United States gov­ernment thinks there is a great need to spend the taxpayer's dollars to save human life from starvation let's at least take care of the people of our own country first. 
Greg Pryor Off-campus Nov. 30, 1992 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
RJCK, THEY HAV£ 70 6/V13 
AU3c!T AMOt:JeRATe
MFA UXJI<! IT*3 7RLJ£ I 
UN{}f3<7H£ RCPUBUCAN!
{}()N'THAV£ MUCH POUCY 
PA7R/JNAG/3 LAC&Y~ PRAC­
&XPI3R/13NC5, BUTI Oil?A 
OFAfAJ&-TICAUYA 
LOT~ 7HF 5PAP& WORJ< ON 
KNOIAJN 0!3MOCJ<A7/
lH£ FAMI/.-Y l&AV8 BIU.1 
Rm/BUCAN, \ 

'In dreams begins responsibilities.' 
William Butler Yeats 

Help! rue fallen and I can't submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
---~------------------------~~----­
Viewpoint
Wednesday, December 2, 1992 page 9 
-, 
During holidays, consider how you can help others 
with the large number who 
For years, former Pittsburgh ~ were leaving office. However, Pirate great Willie Stargell we gathered 109 turkeys, I bought and distributed turkeys thanks to offices like Con­to the homeless in the Hill Dis­gressman George Miller (5), l trict of Pittsburgh. It was a pri­Senator Ted Kennedy (34), Se­1 
vate. low-key way for him to nator Paul Simon (12), and the give to those who were ex­Capitol Hill Police (10). We tremely less fortunate than the never know who will contribute, 
l
baseball star. After Stargell be­and none of those offices expect 
J 
came the team leader and MVP publicity for their efforts. 
1 
of the 1979 World Series, his Last week President-elect Bill l private affair became public. Clinton drove past a McKenna's 1 His response to reporters was Wagon truck and stopped his l to leave him alone. Where were motorcade. He asked the driver they ten years prior? about the program. Then he 
Martha's Table in Washington, jotted some notes and said he 
D.C. is an organization that would see them again whenever sends soup trucks throughout he moved into the White House. the streets to feed the hungry. As a result, Martha's Table was These "McKenna" Wagons abuzz the week before their
alumni clubs. So several years On Sunday, over 2000 people(named after a priest) quietly ago, I bloomed from filed through the Martha's Table Thanksgiving meal. 
traveled the neighborhoods <lf Martha's Table stands as a
indifference to involvement as a doorway to eat a hot meal of 
Washington in the late 1970s tribute to a few who had a vi­
result of the Center's placement turkey, dressing, potatoes,
and stopped daily at Lafayette sion and worked to develop it.
of this student in Washington. vegetables, and dessert. Almost 
Park across from the White Others, like myself, had an idea
For my first ride, I was to half were children. Most of the 
House. When George Bush be­that mushroomed to the point
hand out Twix candy bars as a adults are poor, homeless. or 
came President, he had their where it has become a perma­
dessert treat. The look on some unemployed. Standing at the 
stop moved a block away out of nent part of their yearly plan­
of the faces of the people I back of the dining area and 
sight. ning. Yet overall, each person
served haunted me. I felt awk­watching these people can 
I rode on those trucks in the who ate a hot turkey meal on
ward. I felt uneasy. I tried to bring tears to one's eyes. 
1980s and became familiar with Sunday had just that...one meal 
pass the time with wit and hu­After nine years, I still orga­
several of the street people. My mor_ When one man refused the nize the annual turkey drive in on one day. The next time we involvement grew from a candy from me, I asked, "On a Gary J. Caruso Congress for that Thanksgiving gather with our families and 
Capitol Comments
friendship I had with a Notre loved ones on Thanksgiving,
diet?" meal. It began as an idea for 
Dame student who served in think about how to aid those
"No," he answered, "I'm, which I had hoped to gather fif­
twn, Barbara Bush and the
our alumni club's Summer people, as well as millions like
drinking today." teen turkeys. When the first
Quayle children volunteered at
Service Project. She lived one them, the other days of the
Moments like that deserve to reply came from Speaker Tip
Martha's Table on 14th Street. 
summer in a woman's shelter year.
be private. Now I know how O'Neill, I knew that the idea
They gave instant notoriety toand showed me how caring for Willie Stargell felt when the would get off the ground. That
the facility. That in itself is not
others comes from the heart. Gary J. Caruso is a graduate
press finally pursued him at year we gathered 27 turkeys on
bad. Many have worked for
Notre Dame's Center for of the University of Notre Dame 
Thanksgiving time. Unfortu­the House side of the Capitol. 
years without the recognition
Social Concerns began after I and now works in Washington,
nately for Martha's Table, the Each year since, the number
they deserve. But somehow I
graduated. While my fellow D. C. as a desktop publishing
quiet of yesterday has been re­has grown, especially when the
feel that a few famous people
students volunteered at the specialist for the United States
placed with a high-profile pub­Senate joined us. Last year we
support Martha's Table now
Logan Center and elsewhere in House of Representatives. His
lic awareness. collected 105 turkeys, but I did
because it is the "in" thing to
South Bend, we never had any column appears every other
During the Bush Administra-not expect as many this year
do.

organized programs with Wednesday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student is frustrated . .. told to 'keep DARTing' 
Dear Editor: after my attempt to obtain an 
I am writing to voice my authorization number ensuring frustration with the class pre­my enrollment in the class registration process. One upon reopening was met with would think that, being a denial. The answer I got again second-semester senior, one was: DART, just keep DARTing. would finally meet DARTing So, will I be lucky enough to success. Wrong! One last time, get the one opening when I call I have been closed out of at 7 p.m.? Of course not! desired classes by DART. When the class reopened at at 
My frustration began with my 7 p.m., I frantically dialed to failure to obtain a class I need get my place in the class. in order to fulfill University Wrong! By the time I reached requirements for graduation. the DART operator -7:03 p.m. My frustration grew after the -the class was once again full. department's (offering the class Needless to say, I am upset I need) refusal to admit me into and frustrated with this system. the class. Why am I I have been once again forced aggravated? First, I had to settle for a mediocre class in obtained the professor's order to meet graduation permission to enter his closed requirements. My question: Is class. Case closed, I am in the this denial to take classes what class, right? Wrong! we are shelling out large tuition 
I am not in. The department payments for? I think not, but is not complying with the once again, I have been proven professor's willingness to allow wrong by DART. me in the class. The answer I get: DART into the class when Amy McAuliffe it reopens. Further DART Off-Campus frustrations were acquired Nov. 23, 1992 
What if the Queen said 'No' to women? 
Dear Editor: 
"A second Reformation sweeps Christianity," proclaims Time magazine in its cover story highlighting the decision of the Church of England to or­dain women priests. 
This "women's reformation," as Time styles it, touches on more than the legitimacy of women priests (or is it priestesses?). It implicates a whole range of issues associ­ated with the rise of feminism, such as the insistence upon so­called inclusive language. For example, is it proper to address God as "father"? 
Should Jesus' words be changed to "Our Father and Mother who art in heaven"? The following revision has been proposed for Matthew 28:19: "Go therefore and make disci­ples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of God the Father and Mother and of Jesus Christ the beloved Child and of the Holy Spirit." 
Clearly, the issues raised are of such importance as to justify Time calling it a Second Refor­mation. But as with so many deviations from Catholic ortho­doxy, many of the dissenters often find themselves at odds with one another. One can imagine how such conflict might emerge here. 
The press accounts of the Anglican controversy in Eng­land note in passing that the decision by the Church of Eng­land must be approved by Par­liament and the Queen, but ap­proval by each is regarded as a mere formality, which, of course, it is. 
But that was not always the case, for a pillar of the Refor­mation in England was the primacy of the King (then Henry VIII) over both State and Church. King Henry was indeed in charge, and the church leaders knew it. 
Now suppose that Henry's successor, Queen Elizabeth II, were to exercise the authority which formally is still hers. 
Suppose she determined to ad­here to 458 years of tradition in the Church of England and de­clare that women are not eligi­ble for the sacrament of priestly orders. 
The resulting furor could hardly be constrained. A key tenet of Reformation One and Reformation Two would con­flict. Which is to prevail? And the irony of a woman monarch upholding the tradition against the ordination of women priests would add an unforeseen spin to the ongoing debate. 
We are not, alas, likely to see Queen Elizabeth II act like a real queen. She will approve whatever sense or nonsense emanates from either the Par­liament or the Church of Eng­land. One can only imagine what Henry VIII might have done were he in her position! 
Edward J. Murphy Matthews Professor of Law Nov. 27, 1992 
The Catholic Church should be next 

Dear Editor: 
I have often wondered whether a kindly bishop would help me with an experiment. I would ask him to sit down, I would tie one hand, one foot, plug one ear and place a light gag over his mouth. This would dramatically symbolize the church as she is handicapped by present ruling on the ordi­nation of women and married men. 
Tonight we have the privilege of a presentation by the Rev. Tina Velthuizen (three students will give responses). Rev. Velthuizen is a woman priest of the church of the Holy Trinity Episcopal Church (Library Lounge, 7:30p.m.). 
Hers is a timely presentation for this month the Anglican church both in Great Britain and in Australia voted for the ordination of women to the priesthood. Thus the Roman Catholic communion now stands as the only historic Western church to deny ordi­nation to women. 
Notre Dame University has not been silent on this issue. Faculty and students have been working on it for a quarter of a century. The Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women was formed three years ago. After many consultations with stu­dents, faculty and staff the board formally presented a statement to the Catholic bish­ops when they met in confer­ence at Notre Dame from June 18-21, 1992. 
It remains with us then to re­joice with our sister churches who have made a mature and service-orientated decision but also to do everything in our power to enable our own com­munity to remove all impedi­ments to the spread of the Kingdom of Christ. 
J. Massyngbaerde Ford 

Department of Theology Nov. 27, 1992 

t 
' 
page 10 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, life, whatnot 
Just how I REALLY feel 
D 
ear Mom and Dad: I think I've finally found my call­
ing-I've determined my future. I'm 
not going to work at the McDonald's 
drive-thru. 
I'm going to write greeting cards. 
Now, I'm not talking about cheesy thank 
you cards, sappy birthday cards or graduation 
cards. No-I envision a whole new dimension of 
greeting cards: cards that deal with real life and 
real life people. 
As a whole, the card industry has 
attempted to do this. While they still make your 
ordinary birthday cards and congratulations 
cards, a new trend has started-personalized 
cards. 
There's the "Just How I Feel" brand. 
There's the "Between You and Me" genre. 
They've even started to market an entire 
division of cards with the option of personalizing 
them by computer. 
They've mass-produced greeting cards for 
what they consider to be ALL dimensions of life. 
And shoppers now expect to find cards that 
perfectly fit each and every situation they may 
encounter. 
Instead of generic card headings such as 
"Birthday," "Anniversary," or "Thank you," 
we're now treated to such specifics as "Mom, 
I've always been so proud of you," "You 
supported our family by yourself," and "My 
grandfather: my special friend." 
There's also the "I want to say 'I'm sorry'" 
card (Why spend $2? Just SAY you're sorry). 
And one of my particular favorites is a 
card with the heading "I heard about your dad" 
(What exactly did you hear about him, 
anyway?). 
But this is where Hallmark and friends 
have failed the American consumer. 
They've missed a huge chunk of the 
population. 
Real life people. People who get angry and 
pissed off. People who cheat on their taxes. 
People who watch "American Gladiators." 
So what I propose is an entirely new kind 
of greeting card. People would love them-l'd 
make them attractive and easy to find-with 
categories for every REAL situation under the 
sun. And I'd call them"Just how I REALLY feel." 
I can see it now: 
• A card entitled "To my roommate the thief-" So you thought you could get away with borrowing my favorite white sweater, wearing it to The Commons, and spilling beer all over it, huh? Think again. 
• Or what about "So she dumped you-" 
She's slime. She screwed you over. But stop acting like a fool. get on with your life and stop talking to me about it. 
• "I saw you cheat on a test-" It was you. You know it and I know it. Gimme $50 or Professor Smith hears about it in the morning. 
• "I heard about the loss of your I.D.-" 
I'm sorry. I know it was a part of you. In fact, it WAS you-at least on the weekends. My deepest condolences. 
• "I know you heard about my dad-" Just keep it to yourself and no one will get hurt. 
• "I need money. NOW-" (Blank on the inside. What more can you say?) 
• "I think you've got an amazing body-" 
Wanna hook up? 
You get the general idea. 
Anyway, whaddya tbink? My future is 
golden. Could I be a self-made millionaire or 
what? 
Love, your disillusioned daughter. 
Jahnelle Harrigan is Accent editor ofThe 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 

Accent 
Wednesday, December 2, 1992 


'Ordinary People' 
All student-run production gives insightful performance about family trials 
: ·. ·'··. ' 

By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer 
With the end of the semester approaching, the demands on everyone's time to complete course work forces each person to limit the time spent on leisure and entertainment. "Ordinary People," produced by Notre Dame Student Players, is well worth the expenditure for one of its two-hour performances, especially for anyone who loves theatre or good drama. 
The play, adapted from Judith Guest's novel by Nancy Gilsenan, will be performed Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. This story resembles the 1980 film of the same title which won Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor, Best Director, and Best Adapted Screenplay. 
"Ordinary People" depicts the problems that the Jarrett family has dealing with the death of Buck, the older son, in a boating accident. "The play revolves around the picking up of the pieces of this shattered family," says Director Cara Conway. As the plot develops, it becomes apparent that this task is not going to be easy. 
The stage adaptation focuses on Conrad, the younger son, and his struggle to recover from a recent suicide attempt in addition to coping with the loss of his brother. The story of his family is told mainly from his point of view, and the audience soon learns that the Jarrett family is anything but the happy, All-American family. On the outside, the family seems to be a pillar of strength, weathering tough times with courage, but the interaction among family members reveals that this is a facade. 
Conrad has a number of prob­lems which are resolved over the course of the play. At the beginning of the play, he is a teenager on the brink of another breakdown. "He finds it impossible to deal with the guilt of his surviving and Buck dying," said junior Pete Dillard, the actor portraying Conrad. "He wants to be ordinary-a regular person. He just can't get into 
. 
the groove." 
Over the course of the play, Conrad finds his groove and is able to work out some the problems. Part of this progress is made because of numerous sessions with Dr. Berger, his psychiatrist. The scenes between Conrad and Dr. Berger are the most revealing and some of the most powerful. Although many of the problems Conrad has to resolve are emotional and somewhat depressing, the character has been developed in such a way as to make the audience feel sympathy for him. "We should enjoy seeing Conrad progress during the course of the show," stated Conway. 
The story of the Jarrett family does not exclusively deal with Conrad. Cal, the loving father and husband, is a wishy-washy character who desperately tries to hold his family together. At times, he becomes the narrator in order to reveal more about him and his wife Beth. 
Beth, on the surface, is a demanding and selfish matriarch. She is, however, too much of a perfectionist and a control freak to deal with all the problems. "She's controlled and controlling-very cautious," said junior Patricia Nolan, the actress playing Beth. "She presents the illusion of strength but she is not strong." 
By the end of the play, the au­dience has a deeper sense of un­derstanding and sympathy for both Cal and Beth. "I wanted to make it clear that she wasn't a monster," states Nolan. Conrad, however, steals the audience with his story as he is on stage for almost the entire show. 
As the name of the company suggests, this production of "Ordinary People" is completely student run, including the directing and technical aspects. This show does not, however, suffer from a lack of experience; it rivals, if not surpasses, many of the Mainstage productions from the past two years. Many of the aesthetic problems with the pro­duction result from having to use the LaFortune Ballroom instead of a theatre like Washington Hall. 
The strength of this production is the acting and character inter-
Photo by Brian McDonough 
action. Pete Dillard gives a great interpretation of Conrad. His emotional outbursts and facial expressions add another dimension to the dialogue and really strike a chord with the audience. The emotional rollercoaster Dillard has to ride to give a realistic portrayal of Conrad demonstrates the range of his talent and is even more impressive because he is on stage for almost the whole play. 
Joe Wilson plays the atypical psychiatrist Dr. Berger with a sarcastic twist which provides the best comic relief in the play. Dillard and Wilson are a pleasure to see on stage together, as their chemistry takes the numerous office scenes to another level. 
Patricia Nolan does a wonderful job with the role of Beth. It would have been very easy for Nolan to keep the interpretation of her on one level, but she goes beyond the cold selfishness that is readily apparent. She helps the audience accept Beth as a flawed character, not a monster. 
The surprises of the show are the scenes between Conrad and his girlfriend Jeannine. Megan Thomas gives a charming performance as Jeannine and her chemistry with Dillard make the scenes believable and enjoyable. She does a nice job bringing out the awkwardness associated with teen relationships. 
Greg Murphy's portrayal of Cal shows the audience the struggle that Cal endures as he tries to maintain his family's stability. His performance illustrates how torn Cal is in the conflict between Conrad and Beth. Murphy encourages a sympathy for· his character that is necessary to understand Cal. 
The script has its faults. The numerous, short scenes are somewhat distracting and makes the chronology of the play hard to follow. But, the play is not about events, it's about people, and the actors more than compensate for the script's faults. 
"Ordinary People" is a com­pelling drama that captures the audience from scene one. The attempt should be made to see this production. Tickets are $5 at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

Wednesday, December 2,1992 The Observer page 11 
Marge Schott faces the firing squad 
Civil rights leaders fire back 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Pete Rose said Tuesday he has never known Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott to show any ani­mosity toward blacks or Jews. 
"I don't think she hates black people or Jewish people," Rose said. 
Rose, who managed the Reds for Schott before he was banned from baseball in August 1989 for gambling, agreed with the decision of baseball's executive council to investigate whether Schott made deroga­tory statements about blacks and Jews. 
"You have to take it a little bit at a time and get both sides of the story," Rose said from his Boca Raton, Fla., restaurant. 
Rose, who has a nightly syn­dicated radio talk show, said he would have the Rev. Jesse Jackson on his program Tues­day night. Jackson has sched­uled a rally against Schott dur­ing the winter meetings next week at Louisville, Ky. 
Schott declined comment, a secretary at her office said. Schott apologized to black and Jewish leaders in Cincinnati last month for any offense her remarks may have caused. Those leaders plan to meet with her again Dec. 22 to push for her to hire more minorities. Only one of the Reds' 45 front­office employees, a woman, is black. 
Civil rights activists, including the Rev. AI Sharpton and Ben­jamin L. Hooks, and baseball home run leader Hank Aaron have demanded that Schott get out of baseball. 

The lawyer for Tim Sabo, a former Reds controller whose lawsuit against Schott made public the allegations against her, said baseball's investiga­tion is prudent. 
"I think that's a good sign. The best thing that could come out of this is for a full-fledged investigation to take place in which the charges are aired and the allegations are put to the test," Stephen Imm said. 
Imm represents Sabo in a lawsuit in which Sabo contends he was illegally fired, in part, for opposing Schott's alleged racial discrimination in team hiring. Sabo, who was fired in August 1991, asks for $2.5 mil­lion in damages. · 

Schott countersued, contend­ing Sabo was fired because he wrote himself checks that she had not approved. 
Former Reds employees gave depositions alleging that Schott had referred to former Reds players Dave Parker and Eric Davis as her "million-dollar niggers." Schott denied that. 
Schott also was accused in de­positions of talking about "money-grubbing Jews." 
Committee to respond to allegations 
NEW YORK (AP) -Baseball's 1989 for gambling and New executive council, responding York Yankees owner George to allegations that Marge Schott Steinbrenner agreed to what made statements offensive to amounted to a lifetime ban the minorities, appointed a four­following year after his $40,000 person committee Tuesday to payment to a known gambler. investigate the Cincinnati Reds Steinbrenner is due to be rein­owner. stated on March 1. 
The 11-member council met The Rose and Steinbrenner for about one hour in a tele­probes took many months and phone conference call and de­became multimillion-dollar in­cided to appoint the committee vestigations. Officials said the "to investigate the alleged ra­Schott probe will be quicker. cial and ethnic remarks at­"Whether or not they will be tributed" to Schott. ready or not next week for our 
American League president meeting in Louisville remains to Bobby Brown, National League be seen," said one council president Bill White, California member, speaking on the con­Angels executive vice president dition of anonymnity. "They'll Jackie Autry and Pittsburgh Pi­try to be, but they won't sacri­rates director Douglas Danforth fice thoroughness to save the will be on the panel. Milwaukee time." Brewers owner Bud Selig, the executive council chairman, The council is scheduled to said NL lawyer Robert Kheel meet Monday at the start of the will be the counsel for the winter meetings. probe. "It's important for us to make 
"The committee has been sure there is due process," said asked to conduct its investiga­another council member, also tion thoroughly and with all ap­speaking on the condition of propriate dispatch," the com­anonymity. missioner's office said in a Owners said the committee statement. The committee is to will read depositions and prob­report its findings to the execu­ably would interview Schott tive council, which assumed the and Sharon Jones, a former power of the commissioner Oakland Athletics employee when Fay Vincent resigned who has accused the owner of Sept. 7. saying, ''I'd rather have a 
trained monkey working for me 
The Schott probe will be the than a nigger." Schott also has third major investigation for been accused of a poor record major league baseball since on minority hiring and of 1989. Cincinnati Reds manager making derogatory remarks Pete Rose was banned for life in about Jews and Asians. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
· STRIPED & SWIPEDI NOTICES I SOMEONE STOLE MY BARBER .,_,.===:---------'· POLE ON SUNDAY NIGHT, ATIENTION: 11/22/92. GREAT SENTIMENTAL For more information and VALUE. $50 REWARD. PAT'S assistance regarding the BARBER SHOP, 273-8440. investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the LOST-BLACK VELVETIE HEARBetter Business Bureau of BAND, LAST SUNDAY AT THEMichiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., ENGINEERING DEPT, FIRST Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­FLOOR. PLEASE, IF FOUND, 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­CALL 272-3920. 9121 or 800-439-5313. WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA  WANTED I INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make $2000-$4000 + per month. Many provide room & board + other benefits I Financially & Culturally rewarding! For International Employment Group: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584. Babysitter wanted for occasional evenings out. Experience & own transportation preferred. Pay negotiable. Call277-9682 ext 632.  ROOMMATE WANTED: to live w/ 2 fem. grad students $175, incl. util., washer/dryer call277-20651v message SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210 MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE, DEPOSIT. 272-0806 SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEAR CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272­6306 Furnished room. $200/Mo 287-2159 Paul  I PERSONAL HeyNiff OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. MEN AND WOMEN  GO ND SWIM III Good Luck this weekend. MARGE TO THE PERSON SELLING THE "END OF AN ERA" (ND VS. PENN STATE) SHIRTs-PLEASE CALL ME, I'D LIKE TO BUY2. CALL RICH AT x1005 FRESHMAN BAND SEEKS DRUMMER AND BASSIST IF INTERESTED CALL CHAD AT X4186 OR ROBERT AT X2258. IT'LL BE AN EXPERIENCE YOU WONT SOON FORGET  
DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE TYPING MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD. 287-4082 LAST SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL AMY AT 4530.WordWorks Typing Service Term papers, dissertations, theses 277-7406 . DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL··sENIORs•• ON FRIDAY NOVEMBER 20? IF FREE PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA SO PLEASE CALL TODAY MARK X1857 7-9 SENIOR BAR DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG $1 cover COAT AT THE WALSH FORMAL ..SENIORS.. ON FRIDAY NOV. 20? IF SO PLEASE CALL Babysitter/Housekeeper available MARK X1857 2nd semester, MWFS; pay negotiable, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. Please call Tanya at 283-1880. HUGE REWARD!!!! I promise. Do you have my blue, Notre Dame back pack-lost Monday Nov. 30 in ILOST & FOUND I North Dining Hall? Call me or bring in by 617 PE, ASAP. NO questions Lost: asked. Heather X3762. GOLD PULSAR WATCH please call me if found Jen X1271 LOST: One pair·of fruit-punch soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium LOST: BRADSHAW'S BLUE lot. If found, please call Tony at 287­BLAZER AT THE 'NAUGH 9341 because I doubt they'll fit you. FORMAL. IF FOUND CALL JOHN No questions asked. AT 283-1505. PEACE.  SPRINGBREAKERS. Promote our Florida Spring Break packages. Earn MONEY and FREE trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. Campus Marketing. 800­423-5264. Help! I need a ride to the WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas Break. I can leave as early as Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison at X4758 or X4721 Energetic musician w/ diverse taste needs guitar/bass/drums for originals band. Must own equipment. No classic rock/Metal. Bring your sense of humor & leave your attitude at home. Call Jeff nights 273-1512. Driving to Kzoo ·orAnn Arbor this weekend? DRIVE ME I'll buy gas! X2331 FEMALE SEEKING NEAT, NONSMOKING HOUSEMATE 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. $260/MONTH. 277-7048.  FOR SALE ND alum in Chicago has perfect X-mas gift for you from Mom and Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof, 5-spd., am/fm, cassette, garaged since owned, low miles, perfect condition, complete with ND sticker. Must sell! $6400 or best offer. (312) 348-7867. GO IRISH! For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 For SALE COUCH, TV, CD/TAPE PLAYER STAIRMASTER Need details, call 271 8418 Brand New: Trek Mtn Bike: 20" Black (Orignal Price $500) SELLING FOR $400 x1715 TICKETS GREAT GIFT IDEA!  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN. FLORIDA FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE $$.ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! CALL 1·800-426-771 0. ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple dreams of sharing life with newborn. Hear us on our taped message. Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­467-8522. On the twelfth day of Christmas my true love gave to me ... Tickets to the Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert Saturday, Dec. 12 at 8:15 in JACC. Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk. '''GROPE FOR LUNA'.. PLAYS AT DALLOWAY'S COFFEEHOUSE (a.k.a. :the St. Mary's Clubhouse) TONIGHT!!! 9PM '''GROPE FOR LUNA •••  Do you have that special ticket yet? • The ticket to my formai/SYR? NO! • The ticket to get into that examination? NO! • The ticket to go home? NOI. The ticket for the Flanner/Siegfried Christmas Play "The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe" Dec. 3-5 at Washington Hall. They're $3 for students, and they benefit Dlsmas House in South Bend. GET THEM NOW AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESKII ok? Happy birthday you two, Happy birthday you two, It's time for a party, But we can't buy for you. Happy legalness, guys. We hope all your dreams ~ome true. •••**MERRY CHRISTMAS .....  ...  
LOST: 14K GOLD BRACELET LOST: BLUE EDDIE BAUER REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007 OVERNIGHT BAG WITH MY FROM 8-5 OR 277c5132 AFTER 5. CLOTHES AND A BROWN  FOR RENT  2 tix for PHANTOM  HAPPY 21 WOOD & D.C. !!!II!!! You guys are the greatest! -C.S.Lewjs  AVOID THE CHRISTMAS RUSH AND PUT YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN THE OBSERVER NOW. WISH THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE A  - 
MEXICAN BLANKET IN IT. I LOST SKIIS ... please ...SKIIS ... please IT DURING THE PENN STATE If you hav'l _any info on Rossignol &  Room for Rent: Non-smoking female grad student. Limited kitchen  12-19-92 Chicago  Kirk is waiting.  MERRY CHRISTMAS BEFORE DEC. 9, THE OBSERVER'S LAST  
WEEKEND AROUND SORIN OR K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a 1LEWIS HALLS. CALL DAN ' storage closet in Farley Hall, 919-659-9067. REWARD WILL contact Paula at 283-4271. MORE THAN MAKE• UP FOR Reward ·if found ...extra Christmas COST OF CALL THANK YOU. cash ... Piease!l!  facilities. 288·2232 before 1 pm. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  FACE VALUEI Erin X2331  The whole crew is aging, slowly but surely, and falling into his hands. Who's going to meet him at the Backer tonight?  DAY OF PUBLICATION BEFORE THE HOLIDAYS. ....'HAPPY NEW YEAR ......  


p .. ; 12 

..... ..... ..... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ...... ·a
. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
-~ : : : :: :: : :: :: :: :: : ',.;
~ ·l.~ • A IJ ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . :' A ~. fi: c:. 
~ ~ W --',<, ••••••: : •••••• : •••••: ~ •• •• L..... L....: : .....:~ ~ ~ ··.. L....: ·:~~>sx-, W ~ 1.11 ~ 
NBA STANDINGS 

NBA INDIVIDUAL SlATS TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 


COUNSELINE  
is DIAL  a confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped material covering a variety of student concerns 239-n93 MONDAY-THURSDAY 4 P.M. -MIDNIGHT  
and ask for the name or number of the tape you wish to hear  

STUDY ABROAD 
Happy 21 
IN IRELAND! 
Saint Mary~ College
Dan! 

Information Meeting TONIGHT
Love, 

7:00p.m.
Mom, Dad, John, 
Chameleon Room, 
Jim, Carrie, Jeanne, 
Haggar College Center, SM C 
, Beth, Chris and Tom 
Pizza! Slides! Scrapbooks! 
!awl# Tjt!e 
50 Understanding Eating Disorders 
51 Understanding Anorexia Nervosa 
52 Understanding Bulimia 
53 Compulsive Overeating 
61 What is Therapy and How to Use It 
65 Date Rape: How Men Can Prevent It 
66 Date Rape: Awareness for Women 
70 Infatuation or Love? 
83 How To Cope With a Broken Relationship 
8• Death and Dying 
85 Understanding Grief 
90 Helping a Friend 
160 Early Signs of an Alcohol Problem 
161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 
402 Self-Assertiveness 
412 Examples of Contract Building 
431 What Is Depression? 
432 How To Deal With Depression 
433 Depression as a Lifestyle 
478 Becoming Independent from Parents 
479 Dealing With Alcoholic Parenis 
491 Suicidal Crisis 
492 Recognizing Suicidal Potentials in Others 
493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis 
on the Race 403 E. Madison St. 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvlalon 

W L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv Plnaburgh 17 6 3 37 114 94 10-1-2 7-5-1 7-2-1 NY Rangera 11 10 3 26 94 92 7-5-1 4-5-2 7-5-0 N-Jeraey 12 10 0 24 71 74 8-5-0 8-5-0 7-8-0 Washington 11 13 2 24 93 89 5-8-1 8-7·1 2-8-0 Philadelphia 9 10 4 22 98 98 7·2-2 2-8-2 5-8-1 NY lalanders 9 11 3 21 89 91 5-3-0 4-8-3 8-1.0 Adame Dlvlelon Montreal 17 6 3 37 114 77 11·2-2 6-4-1 8-3-0 
Quebec 13 8 6 31 115 96 8-5-1 5-3-4 5-2-2 
Boelon 14 7 2 30 98 82 8-2-2 8-5-0 8-3-0 
Buffalo 10 11 4 24 112 91 8-2-1 2-9-3 7-2·2 
Hartfoid 6 16 1 13 62 101 3-&-1 3-7.0 4-7-1 
onawa 2 22 1 5 52 121 2·9-1 0-13-0 1-12-1 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norrie Dlvlalon 

w L T Pta OF OA Home Away Dlv Delrolt 14 11 1 29 114 97 9-5-0 5-8-1 5-3-1 Mlnneaota 13 9 3 29 88 81 6-4-3 7-5-0 8-2.0 Chicago 12 10 3 27 88 75 8-2-3 8-8-0 5-4-1 Toronto 11 9 3 25 72 67 7-4-2 4-5-1 4-4-1 T8Jlll8 Bay 1 0 15 2 22 93 97 6-8-0 4-9-2 5-8-1 Sl. Loull 8 12 4 20 84 102 7-4-3 1-8-1 2-8-2 Smythe Dlvlelon Loe Angeles 16 7 2 34 112 88 10-1-0 8-8-2 6-4-1 Calgary 14 9 2 30 101 88 8-8-0 8-3-2 7-3-1 Vancouver 14 9 2 30 112 82 9-2-1 5-7·1 6-4-1 Edmonton 8 12 4 20 71 102 5-5-2 3-7-2 3-8-0 Winnipeg 8 13 2 18 81 94 5-4-2 3-9-0 3-7-1 San Jose 5 18 1 11 66 113 3-9-0 2-9-1 3-7.0 Monday'a Gamea 
Boston 4, Quebec 3 
At Detroit
Montreal 3, Buffalo 0 
Wuhlngton 1 2 1--4
MlnneaOia 4, N-York Rangers 2 
Washington 4, 081roi11 

Detroit 1 0 0-1 Tuaaday'a Gai!M8 
Arat Parlod-1, Detroit, Sheppard 8, 6:15.2, Washington, Johansson 6 (Sondra, Ridley), 10:13. Penallles-tlynuk, Was (hooking), 11 :37; Iafrate, Minnesota a1 onawa, 7:40 p.rn 

Pittsburgh al N-York lslandera, 7:40p.m. 
Was (roughing), 17:47; Burr, Del (high-aticking),Toronto a1 N-Jersey, 7:40p.m. 
Hartford a1 Sl. Louis, 8:40p.m. 
17:47. Second Parlod-3, Washington, MacDermld 8Loe Angeles va. Chicago a1 Milwaukee, 8:40 p.m. 

(May, Johanaaon), 2:15.4, Washington, lafrale 5 Edmonton a1 San Joee, 1 0:40 p.m. 
(Cavallinl, Krygier), 13:.45. Penallles-f'robert, Det
Wedneaday'a Gamea 
(roughing), 5:46; Chlaaaon, Det (high·stld<.lng),
Detroh a1 New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. 
7:17; lalrale, WBB (holding stick), 11:29; Krygier, Winnipeg a1 Calgary, 9:40p.m. 

Was (hooking), 14:40. Monday's NHL Summaries Third Parlod-5, Washington, Carpenter 5 By The Aaaoclaled Preas (Ridley, lafrale), 18:0S. Penalllea-McCrlmmon, AI N-YOIII Det (hooking), 1:OS; Sondra, Was (roughing), 3:14; llnnaaota o 1 3-4 Konstantinov, Det, double minor (roughing, high· 
N.Y. Rangara 1 o 1--4 slicking), 3:14; CavaUinl, Was (high-sticking), 5:51; 
Rrat Parlod-1, New York, TuiiXltle 12 (King, Miller, Was (high-sticking), 12:35; Probert, Det Hardy), 17:01. Panaldaa-:.Hardy, NY (high-(roughing), 18:0S. sUcking), 2:46; Le81ch, NY (tripping), 9:13; Halcher, Shots on goal-Washington 15-14·10--39. Min (lnlerference), 18:14. Detron 8-7-5---20. 
Second Parlod---2, Mlnneaota. Sjodin 4, Power-play Opportunkles-Washington 0 of 5; 
19:29. Penalliea--+latcher, Min (holding), :20. Detroh 0 of 5. Berry, Min (holding allck), 8:43; Gartner, NY Goalies-Washington, Beaupre, 3-10-1 (20 ahoiB· (hooking), 7:13; Halcher, Min (lrlpping), 8:10; 19 saves). Detroh, Cheveldae, 9-10.0 (39-35). Clrella. NY (el:lowlng), 11 :57; Weill, NY A-19,547. (roughing), 17:25. Referea-Mike McGeough. Llnesmen-Shane 
Third Parlod-3, Mlnneaota. Gevln 3 (Smllh), Heyer, Swede Knox. 
3:57. 4, Minneaota, Dahlen 7 (Elk, CourtnaJ~. 4:46. 5, Mlnneaota. Craig 12 (Tinordl, Dahlen), 6:29 (pp). 6, N-York, Gartner 14 (Leelch, Meaalerl. 10:1l4 
EASTERN CONFERENCE AU..,IIc Dlvlalon 
W  L  PeL  
Orlando  8  3  .727  
NewYOIII  8  5  .615  
New.Jeney  7  7  .500  
Boaton  5  8  .385  
Miami  4  8  .333  
W•hin9'0f1  4  II  .308  
Phiadelphla  3  8  .273  
C.ntral  Dlvlalon  
Chicago  9  3  .750  
Milwaukee  9  3  .750  
Charlotte  7  8  .538  
Allanla  8  8  .500  
Indiana  8  8  .500  
Cleveland  8  7  .462  
Delrolt  3  9  .250  
2 112 3 3 3 112 6 


WESTERN CONFERENCE 
llldw..t Dlvlalon 
W L 
Houston 7 4 Ulah 7 5 San Antonio 5 6 Denver 5 7 
Min~ 4 7 
Dallal 1 II PaciOc Dlvlalon Portland 9 2 Seattle 8 4 LA l.akers 7 4 Phoenix 7 4 LACIWeri 7 6 Golden Slale 5 8 Saaamento 5 8 Saturday'• Gamaa 
N-York 112, Chicago 75 
PeL 
.838 
.563 
.455 .417 
.364 
.100 
.818 .687 
.636 .636 
.538 .385 .385 
G8 
1 2112 4 4112 
5 
5 
G8 
112 
2 
2112 
3 
5112 
1112 2 2 3 5 5 
Scoring 
G JOidan, Chi. 12 
K. Malone, Ulah12 Wllklne, All 12 MuUin, G.S. 13 Barkley, Phoe. 11 Robinson, S.A. 11 Anderaon, OrL 11 O'Neal, Ort. 11 OlajU'MHI, Hou. 11 Hardaway, G.S. 13 Hawklne, Phi. 11 Hornacek, Phil. 11 J. Malone, U1ah 12 
Petrovic, N.J.  14  
Ewing. N.Y.  13  
Manning, LAC  13  
Dumara, Del.  11  
Aloe, Mia.  12  
Miller, Ind.  12  

Richmond, Sac. 13 
Raid Goal Percentage 
FG Tumer, OrL 47 Robertson, MIL 66 Brld<.owakl, loiN. 81 Pariah, Boa. 58 Perry, PhU. 45 Payton, Sea. 76 O'Neal, Ort. 98 K. Malone, U1ah 115 Edwards, MIL 83 Colbln, U1ah 58 Garrble, Boe. 56 Owens, G.S. 107 
Rebounding 
G 
O'Neal, Ort. 11 
Olajuwon, Hou. 11 Barkley, Phoe. 11 Ewing, N.Y. 13 Coleman, N.J. 12 K. Malone, U1ah 12 wuus, AIL 12 MU1ombo, Den. 12 Robinson, S.A. 11 Kemp, Sea. 12 
Auleta 
G Stockton, U1ah 12 Hardaway, G.S. 13 Bogues, Char. 13 
M. Jackson, LAC 13 Adams, Wash. 10 WUIIama, Minn. 10 Hornacek, Phil. 11 Murdock, MU. 12 Coles, Mia. 12 Skiles, Orl. 11 FG 156 115 116 
148 
100 87 90 
98 
107 116 
92 93 
108 
117 
116 
117 87 97 89 101 
FGA 
81 115 109 104 81 137 1n 209 161 102 102 195 
Off 54 
38 
50 
38 
44 
32 55 43 34 40 
No 
154 
135 
120 
119 90 82 88 98 95 87 FT 80 122 87 
58 
88 
88 
71 
64 
41 48 57 52 53 62 59 53 54 47 
64 
81 
Pet .680 .585 .580 .668 .656 .555 .554 .550 .550 .549 .549 .549 
Daf 118 126 105 124 101 111 &6 89 86 89 
Avg 12.8 10.4 9.2 
9.2 
9.0 8.2 8.0 8.0 7.9 7.9 
Pta 404 354 
336 
363 
297 
262 280 280 255 
298 249 247 
269 
313 
289 
287 
242 263 255 
274 
Tot 172 162 155 162 145 143 141 132 120 129 Avg 

33.7 
29.6 28.0 
27.9 
27.0 
23.8 23.8 23.8 23.2 
22.11 22.8 22.6 22.4 22.4 22.2 22.1 22.0 21.9 21.3 21.1 
Boeton 117, Philadelphia 109 Orlando 95, Cleveland 93 Indiana 134, Charlone 122 Atlanta 112, Miami 100 Mlnneaota 82, Detroit 80 U1ah 108, Houston 911 San Antonio 104, Seanle 97 Milwaukee 97, Waehlngton 95 LA Clippers 121, Denver 119 Golden Slale 134, Phoenix 131 New Jersey 94, Saaamenlo 89 
Sunday'a Gamea Detroit 92, N-Yolk 76 Portland 107, Saaamento 99 LA Lakera 114, Dallas 85 
Monday'a Gemea No gam. scheduled 
Tuaeday'a Gai!M8 Portland a1 N-York, 7:30 p.rn San Antonio a1 Washington, 7:30p.m. Indiana a1 Atlanta. 7:30p.m Boston a1 Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Houalon a1 Den-. 9 p.m. 
Dallas a1 Ulah, 9 p.rn Charlotle at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Orlando at Seattle, 10 p.rn LA Lakera at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 

Avg 15.6 14.7 14.1 12.5 12.1 11.9 11.8 11.0 10.9 10.8 
I.apa# Title 
1 Friendship Building 
3 Types of Intimacy 
4 Physical Intimacy 
5 Fighting Constructively 

6 Expressing Negative Thoughts and Feelings 
7 Dealing With Constructive Criticism 
8 Dealing With Anger 

9 U'lderstandlng Jealousy and How to Deal With It 
1 0 Avoiding Overresponslblllty; How to Say "No" 
1 6 Becoming Open To Others 
1 8 Dating Skills 
20 Female Homosexuality 
21 Male Homosexu 311ty 

30 Anxiety and Possible Ways to Cope With It 
32 How to Deal With Loneliness 
33 How to Handle Fears 
34 Increasing Self-Awareness 
35 Building Self-Esteem and Confidence 
36 The Value of Self-Talk 
37 Relaxation Exercises 
38 Coping With Stress 

39 Female Sex Role~Changes and Stresses
-40 Male Sex Role-Changes and Stresses 44 Learning to Accept Yourself 
BASEBALL National League 

CINCINNATI RED~reed to terma wlh John Smiley, picher, on a lour-YMt contract. Agreed to tar1111 wl1h Ow.yna Henry, pitcher, on a on.yur contract. Placed Tom Bolton, pitcher, · on uncondhlonal.releaae walvera. Named Ferguson Jenkins phchlng coach ol Chahanooga of the Soulhem League. 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Signed an agreement with the High Desert Mavericks of the California League. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Sent Doug Simona, phcher, outright to onawa of the International League. Florida Slale League 
MIAMI MIRACLE-Promoted director of operations Lealie Smith to assistant general manager. United Stataa BaMbaU Fedaradon 
USBf'-.Namad Mike Fiore associate director. BASKETBALL NaUonal Baekatball AnoclaUon 
GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Placed Jeft Grayer, guard, on the Injured 1111. Aaivaled lalrell Sprewell, guard, from the Injured llat 
PHOENIX SUNS-Placed Kevin Johnson, guard, on the Injured list. Continental Baakelball Association 
CBA-Reinslaled Ken Bannister, forward. 
CAPITAL REGION PONTIACS-$igned Ken Bannister and Lanard Copeland, forwards. Placed Brent Dabbs, forward, on lhe Injured reserve 1111. 
COLUMBUS HORIZON-Acquired Ron CavenaJI, center, from the CapUal Region Ponllacs for a 1993 third round draft pick. Placed Byron Irvin, guard, on the Injured reserve 1111. 
OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Signed Jasper 
Hooks, forward. OMAHA RACERS-Signed Tim Legler, guard. ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Brian Oliver, 
guard. Acquired Jim Farmer, guard from the Rapid City ThrUiera for the rlghla to Doug Overton, guard. Placed Perry McDonald, guard, on the Injured reserve list. 
SIOUX FALLS SKYFORCE-Piaced Tony Watts, guard, on the Injured reaerve 1111. Greek s..katbaU League 
GBL-aanned Steve Burtt, guard, for life for testing poahlve for cocalne and hashish. HOCKEY Nadonal Hockey League 
SAN JOSE SHARK5-Walved Petri Skrlko, left wing. Recalled Rob Gaudreau and Ray Whiney, forwards, from the Kanaaa CUy Blades. lntarnadonal Hockey League 
KANSAS CITY BLADES-Signed Jeff Sharpies, defenseman. Recalled Derry Menard, delenaeman, from Johnstown ollhe Eaal eo.t Hoclley League. COLLEGE 
BIG EAST CONFERENCE-Announced thai Syracuse will be allowed to play In the men's conlerence bukelball tournament despite sanctions barring them from the NCAA tournament. 
ARKANSAS-Named Danny Ford football 
coach. 

The complete list of tapes is. al~ available ~n page 3 of your Notre Dame/St. Mary's telephone directory. counseline is 
South Bend, IN 46617

sponsered by the Unrvers1ty Counseling Center. For further Information or assistance, call 239-7336. 
----~~~~-------------­
Wednesday, December 2,1992 The Observer 
page 13 

Top-ranked teams tip-off colleg_e basketball season 
No. 4 Kansas holds off Georgia 
LAWRENCE, Kan. (AP)-Darrin Hancock had 14 points and eight rebounds in his regular season Kansas debut and the No. 4 Jayhawks survived a sloppy second half Tuesday night for an uninspired 76-65 victory over Georgia. 
Hancock, a highly touted junior college transfer, hit a thunderous dunk to give the Jayhawks a 68-53 lead with 6:56 left, then got back on defense to block a shot by Georgia, which outshot and outrebounded the favored Jayhawks after trailing by 20 points at halftime of the season opener for both teams. 
The Bulldogs, 15-14 a year ago, got as close as 10 points in their second-half surge as Kansas, 27-5 last season, went 
7:08 without scoring and Georgia unleashed an 11-0 run, with five different players contributing points. The visitors outrebounded Kansas 30-16 in the second half. 
At halftime, Georgia had been outrebounded 25-14 and the Bulldogs, one of the Southeastern Conference's worst free­throw shooting teams last year, hit only 9 of 19 at the line. 
The Jayhawks outscored Georgia 14-6 in the final minutes of the first half and seized a 50-30 lead at intermission, which was devoted to retiring the jersey of Danny Manning, the hero of Kansas' 1988 NCAA championship. 
In the first-ever meeting between the two schools, they swapped baskets in the early going until Kansas used an 11-2 run to vault to a 32-17 lead. 
Kansas used a 12-3 run in the first half to go up 48-28 and win its 20th straight season opener. Richard Scott led the Jayhawks with 18 and Adonis Jordan had 10. For Georgia, Carlos Strong and Dathon Brown had 11 points each. 
Kansas shot 41 percent and Georgia 42 percent. 
Hill leads Duke over Canisius 

DURHAM, N.C. (AP) -Grant Hill put on an opening-night show, scoring a career-high 28 points as third-ranked Duke began its bid for a third straight national title with a 110-62 victory over Canisius Tuesday night. 
Hill, who missed only one of 13 field goal attempts, led five Duke players in double figures. Thomas Hill scored 15 of his 22 points in the second half, Bobby Hurley added 17, Cherokee Parks 16 and reserve Marty Clark 10 for the Blue Devils, who won their 11th straight opening-night game. 
The victory was also the 49th in the last 50 games in Cameron Indoor Stadium, and extended Duke's winning streak at home against non-Atlantic Coast Conference teams to 73 games. 
Hill had the less-than-capacity crowd roaring with a variety of power dunks and inside moves against the Golden Griffms. One of his showtimejams staked Duke to an early 29-16 edge. 
And, what Hill's offense started, the Blue Devil defense finished. 
Canisius had closed to 32-24 after a four-point play by Craig Wise at 8:44. It would be the last time the visitors would score until two free throws by Mickey Frazier at 2:49. Meanwhile, Duke scored 21 straight points, forced three turnovers and sent Canisius into an 0-for-8 shooting tailspin. 
When Eric Meek finished the stretch with a 12-foot jumper at 3:05, Duke was in command 53-24. The Blue Devils led 60­28 at halftime. 
Canisius endured another cold spell at the start of the second half, allowing the Blue Devils to extend the lead to 7 4-33 after the second of successive baskets by Parks at 15:01. The Griffs 
AP File Photo 
Kansas coach Roy Williams led his fourth-got no closer than 38 after tha~. . . . 
ranked Jayhawks to a season-opening win over Darrell Barley scored !7 pomts to lead Camsms. Wise and 
Georgia. Damon James had 16 apiece. 
SPORTS BRIEFS Giants fire Roger Craig, hire Bob Quinn 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­Roger Craig was fired as manager of the San Francisco Giants today and Bob Quinn was hired as general manager. 
Peter Magowan, head of the group that has agreed to buy the team from Bob Lurie, an­nounced the moves, along with the hiring of CBS executive Larry Baer as executive vice president. 
Craig, 62, took over as Giants manager on Sept. 18, 1985, and had one season remaining on his contract. Magowan said he will be offered another job in the organization. Craig man­aged the Giants to an 807-804 record and the 1989 National League pennant. 
"He was extremely gracious," Magowan said. "You couldn't have asked for a batter re­sponse for someone who has been in a difficult position, not knowing what his future would be." 
Craig was hired by AI Rosen, who quit as general manager on Nov. 20 after seven years. Giants coach Dusty Baker is thought to be the leading con­tender to replace Craig. 

Two sources said Magowan first offered the general manager's job to former Detroit Tigers general manager Bill Lajoie, who turned it down. Lajoie, who resigned from the Tigers in January 1991, refused an offer last summer to return as Detroit's general manager.· 
Also under consideration were Sandy Johnson, the Texas Rangers' scouting director, and one-time Giants pitcher Bill Stoneman, director of baseball operations for the Montreal Expos. 
"Bob Quinn has a proven track record as a baseball ex­ecutive and has been a part of a number of successful opera­tions in over 25 years of base­ball," Magowan said. 
After joining the Reds in Oc­tober 1989, Quinn engineered trades that brought reliever 
FOOTBALL BANOUET 
FRIDAY. DEC.4 
\\IAITER i\ND \\IAITRESSES PLl\TE UP ,1\ND BRLl\J{DO\\IN i\PPLY Ci\TERING E~·1PLOY~1ENT OFFICE Brl\SE~1ENT -SOH 10-4P~1 

0,1\ILY 


Randy Myers, infielders Hal Morris and Bill Doran and' out­fielders Billy Hatcher and Glenn Braggs to the Reds, help­ing them win the 1990 World Series. 
Cincinnati finished 90-7 2 last season, eight games behind Atlanta, and got a lift when Quinn dealt for Tim Belcher, Bip Roberts and Greg Swindell. 
Quinn also served as the New York Yankees general manager after working for several minor league teams. 
Although the sale of the Giants won't be final until baseball owners approve it, the reorganization of the front of­fice already has begun, starting with the departure of executive vice president Corey Busch. 
Baseball owners were ex­pected to vote on the $100 mil­lion sale of the Giants next week during the winter meet­ings at Louisville, Ky. 
Baer helped negotiate the deal that stopped the team's proposed move to St. Petersburg, Fla. 

PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND , • .,1109 
5 and 7 NICHT5 
DAYTONA BEACH 
'"""' 68

5 AND 7 NICHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH from$ Bl 
5 AND 7 NICHTS 
STEAMBOAT """'$f29
2. 5 AND 7 NICHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS "·"·'IJ2l
5 AND 7 NICHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,,...1121 
5 AND 7 NICHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ,.,..1146 
5 AND 7 NICHT5 
12th Annual Party! 


TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
t ·800·321·59tt 

.. 

~---~--------­
page 14 The Observer 
Will Seminoles pick Cotton? 
vveanesaay, uecemoer .::., 1::1::1.::. 


The Florida State-Texas A&M controversy probably will be settled on the field. 
The third-ranked, once-beaten Seminoles apparently are headed for a Cotton Bowl matchup with the unbeaten, No. 4 Aggies if Alabama beats Florida in the Southeastern Conference championship game Saturday. 
Although all parties deny that a deal has been struck, several sources strongly indicated that an Alabama win would send Florida State to the Cotton Bowl and No. 5 Notre Dame to the Orange Bowl against the Big Eight champion, probably No. 11 Nebraska. 
''I'd be surprised if it doesn't happen," said a bowl official, who asked not to be identified. 
A Florida State-Texas A&M game would give the Aggies a chance to show that voters were wrong to move the Semi­noles ahead of them in The As­sociated Press media poll. The Aggies were upset by the switch because it ended any chance of them playing top-ranked Miami for the national championship in the Cotton Bowl. 
If No. 2 Alabama defeats No. 12 Florida, the Tide will play Miami in the Sugar Bowl. Under the new bowl coalition, the Cotton Bowl would then get to take Florida State or Notre Dame as an opponent for A&M, which gets an automatic berth as Southwest Conference champion. 
The Cotton would love to have Notre Dame because the Irish traditionally draw the largest television ratings. And Florida State would love to go to the Orange because it pays $1.2 million more than the Cotton, keeps the Seminoles in their homestate, and gives them a recruiting boost in talent-laden South Florida. 

So why is Florida State proba­bly going to Dallas, and Notre Dame apparently headed for Miami? 
• 
In its first year, the bowl coalition has a chance for a No. 1 vs. No. 2 game in the Sugar Bowl and a No. 3 vs. No. 4 pairing in the Cotton. If co ali­tion members don't give the public those games (assuming Alabama beats Florida). they will be breaking their pledge to get the best possible Jan. 1 matchups. 

• 
A&M has a lot of influence with the Cotton Bowl, and the Aggies want a grudge rematch against Florida State. Besides being ranked above the Aggies, the Seminoles beat A&M 10-2 in the Cotton Bowl last season. 

• 
Florida State would get more attention playing 12-0 A&M in the Cotton than it would playing in the Orange against 9-2 Ne­braska (assuming the Corn­huskers win the Big Eight by beating Kansas State in Tokyo on Saturday). The Sugar and Orange bowls go head-to-head on prime-time television, and Miami-Alabama would over­whelm Florida State-Nebraska. On the other hand, a Florida State-A&M Cotton Bowl would 


Women's basketball drops season-opener 

Observer Staff Report (Jones) also contributed a lot on 
the boards and on defense." MILWAUKEE -The Notre The game was close through­Dame women's basketball team out. Tied at 28 at the half. the dropped its season opener Warriors used some second­Tuesday, 66-62 to Marquette. half spurts to hold off the Irish. 
The young Irish team had "There were spurts where 
some problems with the War­they got a bunch of rebounds riors' pressure defense, com­and we didn't defend well," mitting a total of 30 turnovers. McGraw said. 
The Irish will have to make 
Sherri Orlosky paced the Irish some quick improvements. with 15 points, followed by Ninth-ranked Purdue will visit Coquese Washington with 12 the Joyce Center Friday night, and Kristin Knapp with 11 giving the team a taste of the 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by Friday, December 4 at 5 p.m. Contact Jahnelle at 239-5303 for more information. 
side, collecting 10 points to go Notre Dame has a history of along with nine rebounds. playing well against top compe­
Everyone appeared a little tition. Last season, in front of hesitant. which is to be ex­more than 8,000 fans at the pected as the young team gains Joyce Center, they nearly pulled confidence. the biggest upset in school 
history, before dropping a three But Irish coach Muffet Mc­point decision to No. 3 Graw did see some encouraging Tennessee. signs. They are hoping for a similar 
"Stacy (Fields) did a great job turnout Friday night and Irish in her first game," McGraw fans are hoping for a similar said. "Kristin and Tootie performance. 
Byrd 
continued from page 16 
by four metal rods projecting from a plastic vest. The vest is keeping Byrd's spinal column stable. 
The doctors plan to operate on his neck Wednesday. They said they will use metal plates and . bone grafts to permanently stabilize the vertebra. 
Hershman said doctors should know more about Byrd's prognosis one to two weeks after the surgery. 
points and eight rebounds. nation's best competition. Letitia Bowen was a force in­

---------=:-=---'Mln@~M /iJ 

be the showcase afternoon 'game. 
• Although it's a reallongshot, the Florida State-A&M winner could make a case for the na­tional championship if Miami tied Alabama in a poorly played Sugar Bowl. 
"We want to put our team in the best position to win the na­tional championship," said Florida State athletic director Bob Goin. 
Under coalition rules, Florida State can turn down a Cotton invitation to get more money in the Orange. But coalition offi­cials want to avoid that possibility in their inaugural season because it would bring back memories of the old bowl system, which was ruled by bid­ding wars and backroom deals. 
"We're not waving money 
around; we're putting the 
coalition first," said Steve 
Hatchell, the Orange Bowl's 
executive director. 

"We're trying to be team 
players," Goin said. "We're part 
of the coalition, and we want 
what's best for the coalition." 
Of course, the entire bowl 
picture will change if Florida 
upsets Alabama. 

Miami would then play Florida 
State in the Fiesta Bowl. The 
other matchups would likely be 
A&M-Notre Dame (Cotton). 
Florida-Syracuse (Sugar), and 
Nebraska-Stanford (Orange). 
The bowl pairings will be an­
nounced Sunday morning after 
the AP releases its final regular­
season poll. 


TO ~@> 
Urban Plunge students % 
@ 

who missed ~ 
Orientation 
Make-up meeting December 2nd (Wed.) 
4:00 -6:00 pm 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
mmmJ!II 
~ 
omm:l
.., 
~O.....IN 
Df•DI--'IMI .ut-UI•UI't 
-
.......... 
-o.­




· · . i\:lcJr f::. ··Ju .' '. ' · 

Today 
Wednesday,••December 2, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
n~···12 Brainstorm 
-=-t.i~T:'-1-=+~ 13 Move like a dragonfly 
~'""""+"-F'+~'-f 18 Singer Billy­

~~~tt!~lmn:rn••• 19 Way out 
l.:i 23 Musical endings -':'+.~T:'-1-=+:::-f 24 State with 
confidence =.:::+::~~ 25 Page of music ~,.:.r.,.+=-1 26 Professional 
standard 


54 Van Buren's Vice President saCommedia dell'­59 Hunter in the sky 60 Luncheon ending 61 Chow follower 62 Computer units 63 Homeowner's holding 
DOWN 
1 Seat for the masses? 2 Valhalla god 3 Get one's goat 4Wire !Slowpokes &Used a stopwatch 7 Seaweed product 8Makehems 9 Kingly letters 1 o Fore stall 11 Eight furlongs 

BILL WATIERSON 

I IMAGIKE BUGS ANI> G\R\.S 
HA~ A DIM i'ERCEPIION nlfl..l Nt>..TVRE PLA.~I:.D f... CR\lt:l \R\C.I<. ON. 1\-\l:.t'., ~IJT Til£~ L~C.~ 11-1£ \~Tt.\.1.\GBK£. 
Ta R8o.lli C.C>~I'RE\-\END 
"WE Mf.-G~IT\JD£ OF II. 
I 


27 Expiate 28Emulated 
Marceau 29 Beauty lover 30TVdragon 31 G-sharp 
equivalent 33 Ready for battle 36-Doria, 
ill-fated ship 37 Delhi wear 38 Came to pass 44 Angles' partners 

TONIGHT:7...9 
45 Bk. before Job 46 Bloodless 47 Enlisted man 48Stuff 49 Put on the 
payroll so Overture follower 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1021 
51 Hit hard, old style 52 Ferrara family name 53 Quaver, e.g. 55 Stick up 56 Martini preference 57 A Beatty of films 
"Be patient, Leona, be patient. ... Zebras won't take a drink until they know it's absolutely safe." 
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL 
Valid at participating S[Ores only. Not valid with any 
Call Now 

other offer. Customer pays sales tax wh~re apptlcable. Delivery areas limiced co ensure safe driving. Our
ND 271,0300 

drivers carry less chan $20. Our drivers are noc penalized for lace deliveries. 
© 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
SMC 289,0033 

Wednesday 
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. UNICEF Card Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Ubrary. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 4:20p.m. Colloquium, "Landau-His life and Achievements," Dr. A.S. Abrikosav, Argonne National Laboratory. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by Physics Department. 7 p.m. "The First Step Towards Owning a Business: a Look at Some Local En eneurs," Entrepreneur Club Meeting Series, featurin. . ers ofthe Copy Shop, Anthony Travel, Lafayette Square and CactU:sJack. 124 Hayes-Healy. $ p.m. "l)imensions bi Jazz,: big bands jazz concert. Band 

building. Ft~+l,~Sion,,.,.,,, i? ,. r 
TH 
" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Left, at sea 
5 Private hoard 10 In the thick of 14 Actress 
McClurg 15 Neighbor of 
Chad 16 Life, to Luis 17 Hayes's Vice 
President 20 Less well-to-do 21 Like Gatsby 22 An Olympic 
medal 23 Dray 25Choker 
components 28 Leave the neighborhood 
29 Feathery neckpiece 32"-boy!" 33 Helpers 34 North Pole worker 35 Wilson's Vice President 39 Cookie holder 40 Nominates 41 China setting 42 Rocks at the bar 43 Scott of legal note 44 Group of seven 46 Droughty 47 Respond to a shock 48 Pursue 51 Sweet age 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+':;.+:::=+=-+:;-~ 


m 
:::1 

..I 
zo
::2­
-~o
::>Z 
-.JW 
<(,(/) 
Hl 
Free Papa John's Pizza $1 Cover Thursday:9... 2 
_,}, 

Seriiors enjoy the club while you can 
r 
s:: 
z
n~
c )> 
r-
c 
Ill 


Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, December 2,1992 

NICOLE 


Doug Drabek signs with Astros
MCGRATH 

Five-year deal said to 
I Did It My Way 

be worth $20 million 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Doug Drabek, theClassic season for 1990 Cy Young Award winner, has thrown his last pitch for the Pittsburgh
Saint Mary's soccer Pirates. 

Pirates president Mark Sauer said the team Pirates declined to enter into a bidding war for Drabek, who signed today with 
In a soccer season marke_d by 

the Houston Astros for $20 million over 
foaming-at-the-mouth opponents, 

four years -almost exactly what the
drenching thunderstorms and far-away 

Pirates offered him last spring. 
games, the Saint Mary's soccer team 

Only last week, Pirates general
finished their ended their season with a 

manager Ted Simmons and manager Jim
10-3-1 record. 

Leyland said they were hopeful Drabek
That's one game better than last year. 

But it was the players that thrilled would re-sign with Pittsburgh. However, and excited fans throughout their Drabek's desire to remain close to home rollercoaster season. -he lives in suburban Houston ­
AP File Photo 
Offensive duo Megan Dalsaso and overrode his desire to remain a Pirate. 
Former Cy Young Award winner Doug Drabek signed a $20 million deal with the Houston
Stacy Winget took it to the goal time "When you get an offer from the team 
Astros.
and time again. Their many opponents that's in the town where you live in the can sadly attest to that. off-season, it can help stabilize your Drabek, 30, has won at least 14 games attempting to trade catcher Mike 
"They are the best 1-2 scoring 

family, especially if you have kids in in each of the past five seasons, going La Valliere and are listening to offers for 
combination I have had at Saint 

school, which I do," Drabek said. 15-7 in 1988, 14-12 in 1989, 22-6 in shortstop Jay Bell.
Mary's", said Coach Tom VanMeter, 

Sauer said deciding not to enter into a 1990, 15-14 in 1991 and 15-11 in 1992. Sauer said the Pirates will have
earlier this season. 

bidding war for Drabek is "the toughest His ERA was below 3.00 in all but 1988 operating losses of $13 million in 1992, a
Both forwards are in the top three of 

decision" he's had to make in his 13 (3.08) and 1991 (3.07), and he pitched huge loss that will almost be offset by
the all-time Saint Mary's scoring list. 

into at least the sixth inning in all but
After playing together for three years, months in office. $12 million in expansion fees from the 
"He's the kind of player you build two of his 1992 starts. Florida Marlins and Colorado Rockies. 
the teammates have a unique style on field. franchises around," Sauer said. "Doug is Losing Drabek continues a dramatic Some might call it E.S.P. a byproduct of the current system in off-season shakeup that has already seen Still, Sauer said the Pirates can't afford "We don't have to talk anymore," baseball. And, right now, the system is nearly half of the players on the Pirates' to sustain annual double-digit losses in said Dalsaso. sick." 25-man postseason roster leave via the millions of dollars and remain in "I know where she is at all times," The Pirates thought they had a $19.5 trades, the expansion draft or by release. Pittsburgh, which nearly lost the said Winget. million, four-yea'r deal done with Drabek The Pirates expect to lose Barry Bonds franchise in 1985 due to losses in the But Winget graduates this year along 
last May, only to have the proposal re­and Drabek to free agency and will be tens of millions of dollars. 
with goalie Mary Beth Barger, co­

jected by Drabek's agents, Randy and without Cecil Espy, Gary Varsho, Bob The Pirates probably will cut their 1992 
captain Kristen Crowley, defensive 

Alan Hendricks. The rejection surprised Patterson, Jose Lind, Alex Cole, Danny payroll -of about $34 million -to
player April Ehret and injured Cindy 

the Pirates and no further negotiations Jackson, Roger Mason and Vicente between $20 million and $25 million in
Jordan. Quite a combination to be 

took place during the season. Palacios in 1993. They're also reportedly 1993, Sauer said.
leaving the field for good. 
Barger had a near-hellish time defending the goal box against the University of Chicago this season. 

Jets are this season's hard luck team 
Maybe it was the pouring rain but tem­pers were running hot. NEW YORK (AP) -Cruel fate chose the 
With the Belles leading the game 2-0, Detroit Lions as its punching bag last Maroon Katie Schult got a yellow card year, and now has turned its tragic glare for "unsportsmanlike" conduct. on the New York Jets. 
Schult stomped on the ball and then 

In less than one year, the Lions lost 
Barger. 

tackle Mike Utley to a broken neck that
"It is always frightening when 

left him paralyzed from the waist down; 
something like that happens," said 

assistant coach Len Fontes, who died of
VanMeter, "but Mary Beth kept her 

a massive heart attack, and guard Eric
cool." 

Andolsek, killed in a freak auto accident.
The Belles were poised for post­

In November, the Jets saw star receiver
season play but losses to Kalamazoo College and Denison College shut their chances down. For the past two years, an eight-year career, forcing him to Kalamazoo has represented this retire at 29. Two days later, defensive division III area in the NCAA end Dennis Byrd, 26, collided with tournament. This season, Denison was teammate Scott Mersereau in a gametied with Kalamazoo in the rankings. 
Junior Mandy Eiler sharpened her 

a stretcher with a broken bone in his 
soccer skills in an unusual way before 
neck.
college. Eiler played one year on the 

Byrd is scheduled for surgery
Saint Pius high school soccer team. Did 

Wednesday. It is too early for a prognosis
I mention it was the guy's soccer team 

on his condition. He has paralysis below 
in F~stus, Missouri? 

the shoulders and some spinal damage, lii:td~tftijiidi
This season Eiler switched from midfielder to stopper for the Belles. although doctors said he does have some The switch paid off. sensory function in his legs and motion IJ~~~!f:!~Wm In the three losses the Belles suffered, opponents scored only up to 
"First Al, now Dennis," receiver Chris llllliJI 
two goals in one game. Burkett said, shaking his head at the
ofhisupperarms.

In the ten wins they had, the defense reality of the danger level in pro football. 
allowed only one goal or shut them out. 

"It's a very trying time. 
At their last home game, the Belles 

"We're all mutually thinking about Al They dropped their first four games. thought they did well and what we could
demolished Rockford College, 9-0. To 

and Dennis and how we're all human." Only in a midseason span of four weeks do better to avoid the pitfalls," Steinberg 
me, this game stood out as their best. 

"The way things have gone for this in which they went 2-2 did they show any said. "Here's a very similar case these
All the players came together and 

team this year," safety R.J. Kors said, spark. people went through. It helped us a great
were flawless. Senior Ehret scored her 

reflecting on a disappointing 3-9 record Now, all those numbers are forgotten as deal."
first goal of her college soccer career. Only one word can describe their after the Jets made the playoffs at 8-8 they try to comprehend the tragedy that Lions management suggested that as season -classic. last season, "and now this is something has hit one of their brethren. soon as doctors approved, Byrd should be ';iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:. that hits home real hard. "Dennis is our only concern now," said allowed to speak to the team, probably "This was supposed to be a winning veteran tackle Irv Eatman, who was by conference call. 
INSIDE SPORTS 


year for the Jets." hobbling on crutches Monday with a sore "We thought that would be good for Things began deteriorating early for ankle. "There's not a lot of people Dennis and his teammates," Steinberg the Jets. After a 5-0 preseason, they lost thinking about football. We were down said. "It would be good for him to know their opener at Atlanta by coming out because of what's gone on this season, how strongly they feel about him and unsure of themselves, falling behind 17-but compared to what happened to good for his teammates to know that his 0 Dennis, it doesn't mean a thing." spirits are strong and he's going to fight 
Then their best defensive player and Coach Bruce Coslet, general manager like hell to get well. 
I llllll!lllllllilllllllli!II!I!Jill!ii)JiiliJI!illlllllllillillli!ililllll!lil~l~!~j~!~!JiliJii ~~~~~~~~!~lllll~~~ 

and never catching up. 
i one of the team leaders, end Jeff Dick Steinberg and trainer Bob Reese "The people in Detroit said the best Lageman, tore a knee, ending his visited with Byrd, then called their coun­thing they had going for them was Mike
i 
terparts on the Lions for advice. Utley's strength. I wasn't there. I didn't from that. "We wanted to find out what they see his display of strength." 




