The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 28 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hesburgh joins AIDS council 



By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
News Writer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus, has become a member of a twelve person advisory council for First AID, a fund raising project to benefit the National Association of People with AlDS (NAPWA). 
First AID will consist mainly of a nationwide telephone auc­tion in November. The auction, conducted via a 900 number, will include one-of-a-kind ex­periences such as a game of one-on-one with an NBA star, a game of monopoly with a prominent real estate developer or a lunch date with an in­triguing personality. 
Hesburgh became involved in the project when a member of First AlD approached him. 
"They asked if I would help. I agreed to because people have been stomping on people with 
HPC to fund relief trip bus transportation 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) agreed to help fund the bus transportation costs for the Hurricane Andrew relief project in Miami over October break, according to Jason Coyle, HPC co-chair. 
Money made from "The Shirt" sales will be used to fund the hurricane project, he said, 
Former New Mexico governor addresses Hispanic issues 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
News Writer 
Hispanics must overcome any obstacles they may face in order to succeed in their role in life no matter what role it may be, according to former New Mexico Governor Toney Anaya. 
One such obstacle occurred when Anaya and his staff be­came targeted in 13 FBI inves­tigations and at least one CIA report for openly opposing the policies of former president Ronald Reagan's administra­tion. 
"I thought something was wrong with me but it is all part of the bigger picture," said Anaya. The bigger picture in­cludes a flawed Constitution which is often being redefined and institutional racism, he said. 
Currently there are about 450-500 Hispanic undergrad­uate and graduate students but there are no Hispanic faculty members at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Anaya. 
"It is not a surprise and is the same story I hear all over the country, "he said. 

Commons owner may face possible $500,000 in fines 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
Pasquale Anastasio, owner of The Commons, faces suspen­sion or loss of his liquor license and a maximum fine of $500 for each of the minors cited in Friday's S.U.D.S. raid if the case is brought before the Indiana Alcohol Beverage Commission (ABC). according to Sgt. Gregory Deitchley of the Indi­ana excise police. 
Indiana excise police charged Anastasio for allowing minors in a tavern and allowing minors to loiter, Deitchley said. 
The case has been referred to the prosecutor of the ABC, who will decide whether to pursue charges, he said. 
S.U.D.S. cited 100 individuals for minor in tavern violations, including seven for producing false identification, according to Sgt. Moon of S.U.D.S. Two were taken into custody. 
Among Notre Dame students cited for minor in a tavern were Megan Junius, junior class treasurer, Scholastic Managing Editor Margaret Kenny and Sherri Vitale, Notre Dame tennis player. 
Cited for produeing false identification and minor in a tavern were Stacey Bowman of Campus View Apartments, Jenny Ford of Siegfried Hall, Erik Hanson of Planner Hall, Barbara Maloney of McCand­less Hall, Sean O'Reilly of Grace Hall and Brian Weiford of Dillon Hall. 
Notre Dame students cited for minor in a tavern include Michael Leahy of Alumni Hall; Laurie Niemann of Badin Hall; Alfred William of Carroll Hall; Jason Anderson, Donald Ber­gan, Michael Ebner, Edmund Galka, Gregg Gallagher, Kory Klem, James McMahon, Chris Monahan, Mark Naman, Gre­gory Nordhoff, Branden Parker, 
see COMMONS I page 4 

but the budget committee will meet to decide how much money will aid the hurricane project. 
"HPC will fund $3500 as a base level and we may go up from there," Coyle said. 
Forty-seven students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will participate in the Miami relief project, and the fee per student will be $40, according 
Theodore Hesburgh 
AlDS," Hesburgh said. "A stand needs to be made and I am will­ing to assist." 
The main goal of the First AID project is to make money to assist AlDS victims. 
"This is a good group of peo­ple associated with good actions and that will lead to the raising of money," said Hesburgh. 
Additional members of the advisory council for First AID are Senator Bill Bradley, D-N.J., Wayne Gretsky, Joe Montana, Michael Keaton, Ann Landers, Rep. Louis Stokes, D-Ohio and James DeBartolo. 
Hesburgh has given his full support the the First AlD cause. 

"This is a brand new organi­zation," he said. "There are a number of different programs and it has the credibility be­cause what it is doing is a good thing." 
Hesburgh's role in the orga­nization First AID is "endorsing First AID's efforts of helping people with AIDS. Hopefully people wili give money that they would not have other­wise," he said. 
All proceeds for the First AID auction, along with the net pro­ceeds from the 900 number, will go to the NAPWA. 
to Mike Arsenault, project organizer. 
This fee only covers the food costs, so the project organizers appealed to HPC because the cost of the entire trip will be approximately $7,000, he said. 
HPC also passed a resolution for the institution of a committee which will assess 
see RELIEF I page 4 

Although Anaya served as New Mexico's Attorney General and Governor, from 1983-1986, he stated that being a role model "is not the main aspect of my life." 
"I would suggest being a role model be the by-product of your life and pursuit of happiness should be your goal," said Anaya. 
Students should prepare themselves with education and training, according to Anaya. That includes being able to rec­ognize opportunities and acting on them. 
When President Reagan made his 1985 state of the union address, the Democratic National Committee asked Anaya to be their spokesperson and respond nationally. Anaya turned them down and then unknown, Michael Dukakis, took the spot and began his presidential bid. 
"I declined the offer not real­izing that, as a Hispanic, I could have laid out my ideas for what the country needed," he said. 
Students have a responsibility to challenge themselves to get the best education they can at Notre Dame. Opening doors and beating down barricades are part of being a Hispanic role model, said Anaya. 
"I wish I were twenty years younger because of the great upcoming potential,"he stated. 
Although Hispanics have not reached the Fortune 500, they are becoming CEO's at places such as Coca-Cola. The His­panic community will be the single-largest minority group by the year 2000, said Anaya. 
Being able to do one's best should also lead to Hispanics' 
see ANAYA! page 4 


The Observer/ Maureen Long

Job searching 
Seniors Stan Sawicki and Johnathon Shutlz submit their resumes to companies at the career placement office in the Hesburgh Library basement. Monday was the first day of interviews through the office. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Clinton isn't all he's wrapped up to_b_e_ 
Smooth talker wanna­
be's, take a lesson from 
Bill Clinton. 
His accomplishments in 
Arkansas over the last 12 
years of governance 
include the deserved 
nickname "Slick Willie." I Anna Marie 
should know, I live there. Tabor 
Most people in the U.S. Saint Mary's Editor 
know him only by sound-------­
bites and campaign promises on TV. They 
haven't been on the receiving end of his slick 
rhetoric... yet. The thought of Bill Clinton as 


president scares me. 
His famous last words to the people o Arkansas were along the lines of "Read My Lips." Before the last campaign in Arkansas, we were promised that he would not run for president if we re-elected him governor. Funny, look where he is now. 
Let's take a look at Billy-boy's track record. 
Arkansas can boast having the largest city in 
the country without an accredited four-year 
college. That city is my home town, Fort Smith, 
pop. 70,000. 
What else has the education governor done for education in the state of Arkansas? According to "State Rankings 1992: A Statistical View of the 50 United States," Bill hasn't done much. For 1991, Arkansas ranked 49th in the average salary of classroom teachers, $9,975 less than the national average. 
The Teacher Testing program he set up when I was in sixth grade was bogus. The teachers themselves told us so. Incompetency lived on. 
Arkansas comes in tenth in school-age population as a percentage of total population in 1989, almost two percent above the national average, yet enrollment in elementary and secondary schools hits the bottom half. 
Arkansas also ranks 43rd in percent increase in teacher salary from 1990-1991, 48th in per capita state and local government expenditures for education in 1990, and an unimpressive 47th in expenditures per pupil in public elementary and secondary schools in 1991. These are the grooming years for higher education. I don't even want to touch on the two-year community college in Fort Smith. 
All through my education in Arkansas, he was referred to by the teachers as "our beloved governor," and not kindly. 
Work-wise, there is decent opportunity, ranking 9th in the average work week o production workers on manufacturing payrolls in 1991. The only thing is, the weekly earnings of production workers on manufacturing payrolls in 1991 comes in at 47th, $132.30 less than the national average. In essence, you're worked like a dog for peanuts. 
What ever is Bill Clinton such a hot ticket in America? Is it his Depped 'do? His slick rhetoric? I wish spring break was held before election time. Come on out to Arkansas and see for yourself what little Clinton has to brag about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff Production News 
The Observer 
H L 

1)~U
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

NATIONAL 
Woman murdered by blind date 
•HASTINGS, Minn.-A man drugged, stabbed and dismembered a woman he met through a personal ad and dumped body parts along a road, authorities say. Thomas Schultz, 41, of Richfield was jailed on $1 mil­lion bail on charges of murdering Pamela Lindstrom, 42, of South St. Paul. Lindstrom's body was found Sept. 23 at her home, wrapped in garbage bags, authorities said Monday. Some parts, including the liver, were missing. 
OF INTEREST 
•An 
open Alcoholics Anonymous meeting will be today at 6 p.m. in the Office of Drug and Alcohol Educa­tion, LaFortune Mezzanine. 

•Elan, 
an ND/SMC Dance company will hold audi­tions tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the dance studio in the basement of Regina Hall, SMC for anyone interested in performing with the company for the fall semester. For more information call Elaine Savino at 283-1279. 


Tuesday, September 29, 1992 
Astronomers spot comet 
•LOS ANGELES-Comet Swift-Tuttle, which pro­duces Earth's spectacular Perseid meteor shower every August, has been spotted for the first time in 130 years, astronomers said Tuesday. Its reappearance came more than a decade later than expected by many astronomers, including Brian Marsden, director of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams. But in a 1973 study, Marsden also predicted the comet might show up late this year if it failed to appear between 1979 and 1983. Until now, the longest time span after which a comet reappeared as predicted was 76 years for Halley's Comet. Marsden said from his agency in Cambridge, Mass., which reports new discoveries for the International Astronomical Union. 
Kevorkian assists in woman's death 
•DETROIT-Doctors treating a woman for terminal lung cancer met with Dr. Jack Kevorkian and shared her medical records with him before she committed suicide 

with Kevorkian's help, his lawyer ,,,_!!.••···· 
says. , Lois Hawes' doctors knew that · , she planned to kill herself, . Geoffrey Fieger said in Monday's The Detroit News. He would not identify the doctors. Hawes killed herself by inhaling carbon monoxide Saturday with Kevorkian present. It was the fifth suicide the retired pathologist has assisted since 1990. All involved people suffering from terminal or painful chronic illnesses. Fieger said it was the first time the self-styled "suicide doctor" has received complete cooperation in a case. 

•Ernst 
& Young and Baxter Healthcare Corporation will present an interactive presentation on public and corporate accounting today at 7 p.m. in room 223 Hayes-Healy Center. The presentation is sponsored by the Notre Dame Accounting Association. 

•The 
College Democrats Club will meet tonight at 7 


p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns auditorium. 
FORECAST 
Partly sunny and cooler today with a high around 60. Sunny and warmer Thursday with highs in the mid 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  45  33  
Atlanta  70  66  
Bogota  59  43  
Boston  77  61  
Cairo  84  66  
Chicago  69  50  
Cleveland  69  44  
Dallas  83  57  
Detroit  69  43  
Indianapolis  71  45  
Jerusalem  77  57  
London  63  59  
Los Angeles  92  71  
Madrid  72  52  
Minneapolis  74  51  
Moscow  63  48  
Nashville  75  52  
New York  70  59  
Paris  68  61  
Philadelphia  73  63  
Rome  81  61  
Seattle  66  46  
South Bend  63  49  
Tokyo  70  57  
Washington, D.C.  74  65  


Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki  Frank Rivera Kenya Johnson Bevin Kovalik  
Sports Jason Kelly  Systems Harry Zemballis  
Accent Julie Wilkens Mary Schultze John LoGuidice  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 29 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 204,891,510 +.20 lo 228.90 S&P COMPOSITE +.18 to 416.80 

DOW .JONES JNDUSTHIALS 
-9.46 to :1,2(>6.80
UNCHANGED 624 

GOLD 
+ .40 to to 5:148.20 
SILVEil 
-.005 to $:1.478 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1846: Dr. William Morton used ether for the first time on one of his patients. 

• 
In 1938: British, French, German and Italian leaders appease Adolf Hitler by allowing Nazi annexation of Czechoslovakia's Sudetenland. 

• 
In 1946: An international military tribunal in Nuremberg, Germany, found 22 top Nazi leaders guilty of war crimes. 

• 
In 1955: Actor James Dean was killed in the collision of his sports car with another automobile. 

• 
In 1982: The situation comedy "Cheers" premiered on NBC television. 

• 
In 1991 : The military in Haiti overthrew Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the country's first freely elected president. 



----------------------~------~~~ 
page 3 

The Observer 
Wednesday, September 30, 1992 
Starmann: McDonald's Corporation seeks ND student robbed 
80 percent waste reduction within two years 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
The goal of McDonald's Cor­poration is to reduce waste by 80 percent over the next two years, according to Richard Starmann, senior vice president of the corporation. 
"Environmental responsibility and good business are not contradictory," said Starmann Tuesday as part of a two-day lecture series on "Business Leadership in the Environmen­tal Crisis." 
He highlighted some of Mc­Donald's efforts to reduce waste in its thousands of restaurants, including packaging and waste reduction. 
Starmann said McDonald's change in packaging from polystyrene to quilted paper wrap is "good science, not just good headlines." 
McDonald's is currently working with the Environmen­tal Defense Fund to research and implement more recycling practices to reduce waste. In addition, since 34 percent of its 
~N Esp..d 
~ ~,.,~ 

/ Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan Jnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
domingo, 4 de octubre 
10:30 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Richard Wilkinson, C.S.C. 
Sponsored by
CampuJ Min1stry 
(HAO) Hispa,nic
Amencan 
-(ZMPU5 
0!'11anlza:lon 
MIN15TRY 

waste is organic, the corpora­tion is researching ways to reuse it for soil nutrient, he said. 
Starmann said McDonald's is committed to reducing, reusing and recycling its waste while serving the fast food needs of its customers. 
"There are no easy solutions, 
but we are integrating perma­
nent changes to become envi­
ronmentally sound," he said. 
Attacks by the environmental 
media are unfair, he added. 
"McDonald's serves break­fast, lunch and dinner to 18 million people per day -that's America twice a month. But there's a downside to being leader of the pack," he said. 
"We at McDonald's want to be sure we're doing the right thing to protect the environment for the next generation," said Starmann. · 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
A Notre Dame student from Morrissey Hall was robbed at gunpoint at 1:10 a.m. Sunday morning while stopped in his car at the intersection of Notre Dame and South Bend Avenues, said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
The robber tapped a shotgun against the passenger-side window of the student's car and demanded his money, Hurley said. The student gave the man the $2 he had, and the man fled the scene on his moped. The student was not injured. 
The suspect is described as being a white male, 6'1" and 175 pounds, with brown hair and of medium build, wearing a dark jacket with gold sleeves, a white baseball cap and blue jeans. 

Experimental aircraft crashes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The crash of an experimental V-22 tilt-rotor aircraft that claimed seven lives in July was caused by a combination of a flash fire, engine failure and a failed drive shaft, the Pentagon said Tuesday. 
The crash occurred as the V­22 was making the transition from flying like an airplane to landing with its rotors tilted at a 60-degree angle, the Pentagon said in a statement. 
The document did not make 


• FREE INSTANT CASH ATMACCESS 
Come to expect the best. 
South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana 
• FREE FIRST ORDER OF

• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES When you write 8 checks or less CHECKS Standard design 
• PAYS INTEREST AT • NO MINIMUM BALANCE COMPETITIVE RATES 

Member FDIC 

ATTENTION FUTURE HOLLYWOOD STARS: 
Sunbeam Productions needs EXTRAS for a film shooting in South Bend which takes place on the Notre Dame campus in the sixties. If interested, men should let your hair and sideburns grow NOW for a late 60's look. Stay tuned for more details. 
But Rep. Pete Geren, a lead­ing congressional backer of the V-22, said the Pentagon con­clusion was a good one for the embattled program. 
"Everything that. this report suggests as a likely cause of the accident is something that is correctable without calling into question the tilt-rotor technol­ogy," said Geren, whose Fort Worth, Texas district is home to one of the V-22's developers, Bell Helicopter Textron. 
"It was a terrible tragedy, but 
this report should put to rest 
any concerns that the technol­
ogy itself is flawed," he said. 
Three Marines and four 
civilians died when the proto­
type plunged into the Potomac 
River on July 20 while trying to 
land at the Marine Air Station 
at Quantico, Va. 
The aircraft, also known as 
the Osprey, has twin rotors that 
allow it to fly like an airplane at 
speeds of 300 mph, then tilt its 
rotor blades to allow it to hover 
and land like a helicopter. 
The statement said the Navy 
Mishap Board has determined 
that a combustible fluid be­
lieved to be lubricating oil 
pooled in the forward part of 
the right engine housing and 
was drawn into the engine's air 
inlet area. 
When the fluid ignited in the 
engine, it set off flames that 
caused the engine to fail. A 
flash fire reaching 900 degrees 
Fahrenheit ensued and dam­
aged the drive shaft, which ul­
timately failed. 
While the V-22 is designed to 
fly with only one engine, it can 
only do so "if the pylon drive 
shaft is working," the statement 
said. 
"The investigators were un­
able to determine what caused 
the combustible fluid leak." 
CONGRATULATIONS 
Jim & Sharon 
lbu 
tf!.n strike a 
u~W~?GJ;~t
morwl 
gfot/}~[
IAMERICAN 
~CANCER fSOCETY~~ 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 30, 1992 
Congressional report casts doubt on Patriot missile claims 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The strongest evidence indicates Patriot missiles in the Persian Gulf war knocked out incoming Iraqi Scuds in only four cases, according to a General Account­ing Office review released Tuesday. 
The GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, said "about 9 percent of the Patriot's Opera­tion Desert Storm engagements 
Anaya 
continued from page 1 
awareness of their place in so­ciety and in American history, according to Anaya. 
This awareness includes un­derstanding the pain and hap­piness of Americans which Anaya became attuned to dur­ing his campaign involvement in Reverend Jesse Jackson's 1988 presidential bid. 
"I have always been in awe of. the office of presidency and held respect for anyone who ran for it," said Anaya. But he added, he is no longer in awe of this fall's candidates even though he calls himself "a staunch Democrat." 
There are many qualified 

are supported by the strongest evidence that an engagement resulted in a warhead kill." 
Before the numbers were classified, the Pentagon had reported a total of 4 7 cases in which Patriots were fired to intercept Scuds in Saudi Arabia and Israel. The 9 percent figure would then represent four engagements. 
The report noted that kill rate 
Hispanics but it will not be easy electing one into office, said Anaya. 
"The United States is still not ready for a minority president," he said, for many reasons. 
Hispanics are beginning to coalesce into interest groups as well as being elected to local and state office levels, accord­ing to Anaya. 
"They are becoming the strong foundation needed to lobby for Hispanics in higher positions. Also, if Bill Clinton is elected this fall, most likely he would run for re-election and leave 2000 the year a possibility for Hispanics," he said. 
Anaya was raised in a large Catholic family in a small New Mexico town where his parents impressed education on him. He said he was impatient to begin is only about one-third of the 25 percent success rate the Army now claims as supported by the strongest evidence, and is far below the Pentagon's earlier claims. 
The Army initially claimed that the Patriot achieved an 80 percent success rate in Saudi Arabia, and 50 percent in Is­rael. Those claims were later scaled back to 70 percent and 
his higher education. 
"At eighteen, I got to Wash­ington D.C. with $700 in my pocket ready to conquer the world," said Anaya. 
In all the advice he gives, Anaya admits the best words he received was from his mother. 
"Mijo, cuida a tu familia," re­peated Anaya, "(Son, take care of your family)." For him, tak­ing care of the family not only includes blood relations but the local community, too. 
This lecture was sponsored by Student Union Board, the Oflice of Minority Affairs, The League of Latin American Citizens (LULAC) and the Hispanic American Organization (HAO) as a part of National Hispanic Month. 
40 percent. The GAO report said the Army now reports there is at least some evidence to support a 52 percent com­bined success rate for the two countries. 
GAO defined "the strongest evidence" as instances in which Scud debris or radar data indicated a Scud was destroyed or disabled after a Patriot detonated near it. 
The Patriot is a surface-to-air missile guided by radar which was upgraded during the Gulf War in an effort to make it ef­fective against short-range bal­listic missiles. 

Evidence that could offer a more complete evaluation of the Patriot's performance is unavailable because the mis­siles were operated under wartime conditions that were not conducive to gathering definitive information, the in­vestigators said. 
In a statement, the Army said while it disagrees with the GAO over what the information shows. 
Attention All Marketing Majors 
The Marketing Club will have a second meeting tonight, VVednesda~ Sept. 30th 8:00 p.m. 120 Hayes Healy 
All are welcome to attend 
Commons 
continued from page 1 
David Pruitt, David Reintjes, Michael Robson and Chris Smariga of Dillon Hall. 
Also cited were Joseph Kozak and James O'Toole of Planner Hall; Thomas Failor, Brian Kennedy, Christopher Moffatt, Timothy Reilly, Caley Rogan and Charles Thomason of Grace Hall; Angela Hellwig, Celia Patawaran, Eileen Shelley and Sarah Stock of Howard Hall; Mark Bangasser, David Dettore, William Driscoll and Daniel Plas of Keenan Hall; Jill Tushiski and Wendy Vanginhoven of Knott Hall; Becky Alfieri of Lewis Hall. 
Also cited were Bradley McConnell, James McMillin, Paul Merlitti and John Michael of Morrissey Hall; Lisa Monaco of Pangborn Hall; Erica Hall and Julie Schaarsmith of Siegfried Hall; Brian Posnanski of St. Edwards Hall; Thomas Bolger, Patrick Hanlon and Patrick Shave of Stanford Hall; Catherine Comer, Liane Dietrich, Lisa Kelly, Julie Mayglothling, Yvette McCarthy and Meaghan Nix of Walsh Hall. 
Saint Mary's students cited for minor in a tavern were Erin Cannon, Megan Donovan, Katherine Newland, Mary Swift and Jenell Weiner of Holy Cross Hall; Melissa Drew of Le Mans Hall; Barbara Maloney and Regina Arellanes of McCandless Hall. 
Saint Mary's student Margaret Pelton, 21, of Campus View Apartments, was cited for public intoxication. 
Other names, including four students under 18 years of age, were not made available to The Observer. 
The penalty for the Class B misdemeanor of minor in a tavern includes a maximum fine of $1,000 and up to 180 days in jail. 
The students with no previous criminal records will most likely receive a pre-trial diversion program in which they must pay a fine and do community service, Moon said. 
Relief 
continued from page 1 
campus problems concerning drainage and will suggest solutions to the administration, Coyle said. 
"This will be a joint committee with student senate and it will help to alleviate the apparent drainage problems," he said. 
Presently the University is not looking into these problems at all, so this committee should begin to address ways to improve the campus drainage system, according to Coyle. 
In other business, photo buttons will be sold for $2 each this Saturday in the main lobby of LaFortune Student Center from 8 a.m. to noon, according to Joe Cassidy, director of student activities. 

Now yol} can come with a lifetime warranty. 
So many things come with a lifetime warranty. At TIAA, we want you to be one of them. That's why we created Group Life and Long-Term Disability 
~)II<--·... 
::......_~.._..........;
·­
~-:·~-­
~~w.:w.-~ 
::.........,'Jl•:w........ 

you can give yourself the best life­
...·· 

time protection, call your benefits office·· and ask about us. At TIAA, we think TIAA Group Insurance. everyone should be guaranteed for life. The Smart Relationship. 

Teachers  730 Third Avenue  
Insurance and  New York, NY 10017-3206  
Annuity  
Association  

Ensuring the future for those who shape it. 
---~----­

Wednesday, September 30, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Helicopters collide over Niagara Brazilian president impeached 
NIAGARA FALLS, Ontario (AP) copter that crashed. Ben Poprawski, 43, of Kendall, after receiving millions of dollars 
-Two helicopters carrying "You could hear the 'woof­N.Y. The other victims -one 
sightseers over Niagara Falls collided Tuesday, and one crashed near the Niagara River gorge, killing all four people aboard, authorities said. 
The other helicopter landed safely at a theme park nearby. 
Witnesses said debris from the helicopters rained down onto a parking lot, but no one on the ground was hurt. The collision happened shortly after noon about 300 yards from the falls, which straddle the U.S.­Canadian border. 
A witness, Michael Folemsbee of Niagara Falls, said the landing gear of one helicopter sheared off the tail of the heli­woof' of the rotors not being able to turn" as it fell, said Folemsbee, a parking lot atten­dant. 
It slammed into an embank­ment and slid about 50 feet to the bottom, he said. 
The other helicopter "kept going but was obviously very shaky and wobbling around," Folemsbee said. One person on board -the pilot -was hurt. 
The helicopter that crashed was a Hughes 500 belonging to Rainbow Helicopters Inc. in Ni­agara Falls, N.Y. It carried four people, said company manager Scott Hughes. 
The pilot was identified as 
NOW OPEN IN MISHAWAKA 
SZECHWAN GARDEN 
Chinese Restaurant Daily Luncheon Specials MoiL-Sat. til 3:00 pm Sunday Buffet 11:30~ SJ95 
• 
6 Entrees • Soups 

• 
Salads • Appetizers • Desserts 


Carry Out Service Available 
Hours:
)...c-J tJ;] 
Mon.-Thurs. _11:30-9:30 
~r Fn.-Sat. 11.30-10:30 Sunday 11:30-9:00 
~(jalukn
Clalrwsc R~staurant 
3 W. McKinley, Mishawaka 
255-6868 
jJust mt of Graoe Rd. 01 McKinley) 

man and two women -were not immediately identified. 
Frits Wiarda, 31, a sightseer from Delft, the Netherlands, said he was standing by a rail­ing overlooking the falls when "I heard a big bang." 
"I looked up in the sky and I saw one helicopter flying away and the red one tumbling down," Wiard a said. "My first reaction was, 'Do I want to make a photograph?' And then I realized I was pretty close to it, so I started running away from it. And I looked up and there was debris everywhere." 
The skies over the falls are often crowded with sightseeing planes and helicopters, raising concerns about air traffic safety. 
"It's like Vietnam," said Kevin Merritt, who lives a half­mile from the crash site. "They're flying too many, too low, too fast." 
A bill was introduced this month in Canada's House of Commons that would restrict helicopters and light aircraft flying lower than about 2,300 feet over the falls. 
BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) ­Lawmakers voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to impeach Fernando Collor de Mello, Brazil's first freely elected president in 29 years. Collor is accused of receiving millions of dollars from a slush fund run by his former campaign treasurer. 
Coming after weeks of massive demonstrations, the impeachment was seen as a significant benchmark for democracy in Latin America, where political crises have typically led to coups and uprisings. 
The scandal had paralyzed the economy of Latin America's largest nation, which is burdened by the highest foreign debt in the Third World. The vote will allow Brazil to restart its economy and seek foreign loans and investment. 
The 503-seat Chamber of Deputies erupted in wild celebration after Rep. Paulo Romano of the pro-government Liberal Front Party cast the 336th vote in favor -assuring two-thirds support for impeachment. The final vote 
HANSHAUS 
xd) i. ;ucbipa -Soutll ..nd • x•l·SP:& 
The South Side's Finest Eating and Drinking Establishment 
New Owners~ Old World German Cuisine 
Mectlna an• Be~nquel Facilities A11allable 
THERE ALWAYS SOMETHING To Do 
ATRD's 

Darts Every Day 301 Tournament Sundays 7:00 
LooKING FoR 
CAMPUS BANDS 
CONTACT SHARON 
233--7747 
KITCHEN ALWAYS OPEN FULL MENU AVAILABLE #l D BURGER • STUFFED SANDWICHES • 
Wednesday Karaoke, 9:30 till:30 Friday & Saturday OJ OPEN Sunday D)-Open Jam 
Me D's 
AD's. 
was 441 in favor, 38 opposed, 
23 absences and 1 abstention. 
The vote strips Collor of 
power for up to six months. 
Under procedures similar to the 
U.S. system, Collor will be replaced by Vice President !tamar Franco while the Senate decides whether to remove him permanently. 
Brazil has lost presidents to 
illness, resignation, military 
coups, a plane crash and even 
suicide, but this was the first 
time in its 103-year history as a 
republic that any leader had 
been impeached. 
The military, which ruled 
from 1964 to 1985, has stayed 
on the sidelines during the 
crisis. 
Collor, 43, who was 
inaugUrated in 1990 and was to 
have served a five-year term, 
was accused by a congressional 
panel of gross corruption and a 
"lack of decorum" in office. 
The panel found that Collor ­
who took office promising to 
end political corruption and 
economic stagnation 
received $6.5 million from a 
slush fund administered by his 
former campaign treasurer. 
Citizens in the nation of 150 
million people, suffering 25 
percent monthly inflation, 
flocked to demonstrations after 
reports that Collor used the 
funds to build a waterfall and 
garden around his Brasilia 
mansion, and to provide his 
wife a clothing allowance of up 
to $20,000 a month. 
When Collor moved into his 
mansion in 1990, he told voters 
it was an austerity measure. 
Rep. Genebaldo Correia urged 
impeachment "in the name of 
decency, dignity and honor" in 
one of the more than 60 
speeches before the historic 
vote. 
After the vote, many 
legislators cried. 
A large group held hands and 
sang Brazil's national anthem. 
More than 100,000 
demonstrators gathered on the 
lawn in front of the white 
marble Congress building 
erupted in cheers, fireworks 
and the pounding of samba 
drums. 
The unexpectedly wide margin in favor of impeachment was boosted by government supporters who jumped ship as it became obvious Collor would lose. 
"There were several bastards 
who betrayed us," said Rep. 
Jose Lourenco, a supporter. 
"It's all finished," he said. "The 
game has ended." 
The impeachment vote had ramifications far beyond the presidential office. 
Collor's opponents hope to break the paralysis that has gripped Brazil since the scandal broke in May. Foreign investment is on hold, stock markets have slumped and tax revenues have dwindled. 
Some businessmen, in an act of civil disobedience, have deposited taxes in escrow. A proposed tax reform bill has languished as Congress became caught up in the impeachment battle. 
"Everything has stopped, and the only way to get the economy moving again is to remove Coli or," said political scientist Ney Figueiredo. 
As TV reports earlier in the day indicated government supporters were switching sides to back impeachment, stock markets soared in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. 
For the vote, businesses closed and hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets. 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 30, 1992 

ELECTION '92 

Bush proposes string of Sunday night debates with Clinton 
(AP) -President Bush on series of weekly encounters. ally televised debates dwarf the . ning mate, Sen. A1 Gore. tant that the voters have an op­Tuesday proposed an unprece­"Let's start Sunday. I'm impact of personal campaign­Bush, campaigning in Gore's portunity to see and hear from dented string of Sunday night ready," said Clinton, noting that ing. home state, said, "If Gov. Clin­the candidates themselves." debates with Bill Clinton as he Bush's proposals would conflict The president made his ton is serious about debating, "So I have no doubt that there worked to develop a come­with televised baseball play-off comments as the bipartisan he will accept this challenge." will be organizations willing to from-behind strategy in his and World Series games. Commission on Presidential He added, "I think it is impor-sponsor these debates.'' 
race for re-election. Bush called Said Bush: "Let's get it on." Debates scrapped plans for the for an initial debate Oct. 11, but But he was not ready to get debate on Oct. 4 because Bush Clinton said he was ready to go started until Oct. 11. balked at its proposal for a sin­this weekend. Bush has been criticized re­gle moderator. It was the third 
Bush said he would be peatedly by Clinton for rejecting such cancellation, all of them "pleased to see" Ross Perot the commission's debate plans, because of the president's in­included in the debates, which and Clinton supporters have sistence that there be multiple would stretch through the final turned up at his rallies in questioners. weekend of the campaign, if he chicken costumes to taunt him decides to make a formal entry for not debating. In any event, Bush said he into the race in the meantime. The president's proposal, favors two debates with a single 
Clinton said Bush should couched as a challenge to Clin­moderator -as the commis­show up for previously sched­ton, seemed a straightforward sion and Clinton want -and uled debates on Oct. 4 and 15 attempt to entice Clinton into a the other two under the ground -confrontations that the series of debates that would al­rules that were in effect in president has shunned because low plenty of opportunity for 1988, with three moderators he disliked the format. The missteps. Such debates likely posing questions to the candi­Democrat proposed letting a would overshadow events on dates. bipartisan debate commission the campaign trail. He said he also favors two decide the merits of the presi­With an audience measured debates between Vice President dent's suggestion for a running in the tens of millions, nation-Dan Quayle and Clinton's run­
1992-93 editions of 
du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures and Student Handbook 
are available lo students in the Office of Hesidence Life 315 Administration Building 

Backers to determine Perot's candidacy 
DALLAS (AP) -Billionaire business executive Ross Perot today promised that if he re-launches his presidential race he will go all out to win and be on hand for a debate proposed for Sunday in San Diego. 
But he also said he told his volunteers after meeting with them Monday that "my feelings are not going to be hurt if you decide to support the Democrats or the Republicans or if you decide to break up and support both." 
Perot said on NBC's "Today" show that he told the volunteers: "Let's not get carried off on our group, on our real or imagined candidate or whatever -let's just decide what is right and do it." 
Perot renewed his promise to decide by Thurs­day whether to get back into the presidential race. He said aides told him that a 1-800 number installed in his offices to get input from the American people got half a million calls overnight. But he did not say what most callers wanted him to do. 
As for the proposed San Diego debate, Perot said that he would be on hand if it takes place be­cause "if you're in the game, you have to play the game." 
"But I may not have to face that issue, we'll wait and see," he said. He promised to re-launch his campaign if his supporters decide that is what they want and acknowledged that his volunteers were disappointed when he got out. 
"Certainly they were disappointed," he said. "But these are grown people, these are tough people they don't wander around emotion driven... my only concern is that they vote ... whatever you do vote, don't sit at home, don't sit it out." 
Despite unprecedented meetings Monday with top representatives of President Bush and Bill Clinton, many coordinators of Perot's state peti­tion drives said they still wanted their man to re­enter the race he abandoned in July. 
"He should get back in the race," said James Boutelle, the Connecticut leader.The Bush and -::: Clinton delegations tried to sell the Perot faithful 1 on their proposals to fix the economy in the hopes ~ that the Dallas billionaire would stay out of the race and his supporters would vote Republican or J Democratic. ~ 
Perot has complained that Bush and Clinton ~ have failed to address the nation's massive budget ::;: deficit and threatened to rejoin the presidential ~· battle if his supporters weren't satisfied after the ~ 
'--'

Dallas meetings. ~ Asked whether he preferred Bush's or Cli~to~'s .~ progra~tm..ore, Pterot ~aid, "It wou1 dn t e ~.:_: 
appropna e .or me o say. 
Bush campaign chairman Robert Teeter said ~ he, for one, saw a lot of differences between the ~ Bush and Clinton plans. "It is incredulous to say 1;' that Governor Clinton's programs are closer to ~ this group than ours are," Teeter said. ~ 
"There are differences and we discussed them 1 in frank terms. But overall I think both sides ~ come away realizing we have far more in j common than different," Clinton economics ad-"• viser Gene Sperling said. ~ 
While both campaigns said they were con-Y cerned about the deficit, neither was prepared to endorse the politically risky steps Perot has advo­cated. 
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING 

T
hink about supporting yourself for At TIAA-CREF, we not only under­twenty-flve, thirty years or longer stand the value of starting early, we in retirement. It might be the greatest can help make it possible-with flexible financial test you'll ever L<cc. Fortunately, retirement and tax-deferred annuity you have one valuable asset in your plans, a diverse portfolio of investment favor. Time. choices, and a record of' personal 
Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. service that spans 75 years. Time for your money to grow. Over a million people in education 
But starting early is key. Consider this: and research are already enrolled in ifyou begin saving just $wo a month at America's largest retirement system. age thirty, you can accumulate Stq:l.:')~9* Find out how easy it is to join them. Call by the time you reach age sixty-five. toda\' and learn how simple it is to put 
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside you;self through retirement when you $227 a month to reach the same goal. have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. 
Start pl4nni11tJ yourfuture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it:M 
*A.r.~"um~ft.q an iflltrt.rl relit c~l;: l% atthlttl ttr T/AA Rttr'rtmtnl Amrmlt·~.r. Thi.r mit i.r u.rtd .rtdt/.V It• ,fhc•v.• tht ft'w'tr tllttl ljjut ~~,.t't""l't'UtUim_q. Lt•t~.•tr c•r bigbtr rata w't•uM pn•,luu t•try J~fftrml ruult.,·. ('RRf' ar/~f{,·tito clrt tli.rtrt.hulttJ h_v TIAA-('RF.f lmlit·r·clu,,/ amJ fn.rltlutit•tMI Stn•rl:u. 

-

~------------------­
Environment 
Wednesday, September 30, 1992 
Vegeterianism can help protect the environment 

By ALISHA EISART AND VINCENT HERMAN 
A stigma placed on most vegetarians is that they are radical animal rights activists who, aside from abstaining from eating any animal products, will not wear any articles of clothing derived from animals, not use any products tested on animals. While concern for the rights of animals is a legitimate concern for many vegetarians, other reasons to give up hamburgers and hot dogs abound. 
The reasons range from health considerations to economic concerns. Another important role vegetarians can play is in preventing the needless waste of earth's natural resources. 
How can eliminating meat from your diet help the environment? First of all, if there are fewer meat eaters, then fewer animals are raised, and less land is needed for grazing. The effects of land consumption and over-grazing can be disastrous. For example, the United States consumes a large amount of beef produced in both Central and South America. Much of the land used to raise the cattle is obtained by burning tropical rain forests, an ecosystem essential for the existence of life on earth. As these forests rapidly disappear at the rate of 20,000 square kilometers a year, the planet's most diverse animal and plant communities are wiped out one by one. 
Ironically, the converted land will prove fertile for only three to five years before it is abandoned as wasteland and more forests must be cleared. The United States also consumes its own land in its dependence on meat as a staple. One third of America's surface is used in the raising of cattle. In the state of Montana, the cattle outnumber the people three to one. Land used for cattle grazing produces fifty pounds of meat per acre. In contrast, over twelve thousand pounds of corn could be harvested from the same surface area. By reducing meat consumption, one can diminish the need for de­stroying such an irreplaceable resource. 
The meat industry's needs include much more than land area. Huge amounts of food, water, and energy go into the raising of cattle and poultry. For example, if McDonald's alone sells the equivalent of 16,000 cows a week, one can imagine the staggering amounts of natural resources consumed by the United States' meat industry in a year's time. Fifty percent of all American crops are grown for the sole purpose of feeding cattle and poultry. To produce one serving of chicken and one steak requires the sum total of 3,015 gallons of water. The extent of this consumption could be reduced if there was less of a demand for meat products. 
Of course, the problem is not merely what these domestic animals consume but also what they produce. Due to an inefficient digestive system, one cow can produce as much waste as six humans. Overall they produce 1.6 billion tons of waste every year. Cows also happen to be a primary source of methane. As if our automobile driven culture is not creating enough of a greenhouse effect, we overconsume beef to the extent that cattle raising is destroying our atmosphere as well. 
Vegeterianism may not be the answer for every one, but simply reducing your consumption of beef by a half can make significant gains for the environment and your health. So the next time you go through the lunch line and laugh at the item on the "Vegetarian Fare" menu, remember what eating that burger means to the environment. 
f 
Udall said that the environmental movement is
i~~~~~~~~~ii~~!~~~~~~ Stewart Udall.
still unfinished, simply 
restoring an 80 acre wetlandi"ll• of the par}( in eooperatiQri with n"''--'"'''""' Wildlife Service. Federalfunds-•thr(mgb because it has happened so recently. He said that he spoke to some business and industrial audiences fifteen years ago " ... who thought the environmental movement was a fad." According to Udall, one of the major problems that this country has to deal with is its dependency on fossil fuels. 
"Cut off the electric power industry tomorrow morning, and the whole country would come to a halt," said Udall Monday night in his public address as part of the "Business Leadership in the Environmental Crisis" conference. 
Another aspect of this dependence is our 
page 7 
Panelists address environment 
By STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Environment Editor 
The University of Notre Dame needs to continue playing a role in promoting dialogue between corporations and environmen­talists, according to panelists who concluded the "Business Leadership in the Environmental Crisis" conference at the Center for Continuing Education. 
"This conference is a good starting point for dialogue," said Jack Lorenz, executive director of the Izaak Walton League of America. "The United States has come a long way," he added, referring to the country's progress in pre­serving the environment, "but we can do a lot more." 
"This is just the beginning of a leadership position that Notre Dame will play in bringing together corporate leaders and environmentalists," said •--.·­Patrick Noonan, chairman TheObserverfTomZipprich and chief executive officer of John Houck, Theodore Hesburgh, Jack Lorenz and Patrick Noonan (left to right), conclude the conference the Conservation Fund. "Business Leadership in the Environmental Crisis," which ran Monday and Tuesday. 
"The mess~ge we ~ave movement is not a fad. he~rd here IS .~lear, For Noonan added that the movement busmess~s an~ Citlze?s to act has grown thanks to the National responsibly 1~ society, we Environmental Protection Act, passed J:?USt be enviror~:mentally in 1967 which created the Environ-literate," Noonan said. mental Protection Agency and linked
Father Theodore Hesburgh, . ' . .
'd t 't 0 f th U . the word envuonment w1th pubhc
pres! en emen us e m-h lth ver:.it.Y ~f ~?trt~ Damei ~~so ~~Thts led to an awakening of 
par lCipa e Il_l e cone u mg corporate America," continued panel. Accordmg to Hesb~rgh, Noonan, "that environmentalism is our tr.eatment of the enVIron-good for the bottom line." ~ent IS the new threat follow-Noonan added that there is now the m~Wth? n~clethar age. f g t legislation that is needed to protect 
e re m e process o e -h · b th h
t' 'd 0 f th th t 0f t e envuonment, ut at t e mgl ri e , hrea .d structures do not exist to teach our nuc ear weapons, e sa1 , f d k h 
.. d • f d 'th uture corporate 1ea ers to ta e t e 
an now we re ace WI . t · t t · th ·
th th t f th . t envuonmen m o accoun m eu e rea .0 e enVIronme~ · business decisions. If we contmue our ways, well "Life cycle stewardship will be a 
get t ~h~t ~~ deserve, a very common interest in the future," w~ e P ~ne ·t0 L d said Noonan, adding that business ccorditnhg .orenz a~ schools have got to start training their
N 1
oonan, e envuonmen a students because environmental laws 
Udall speaks on the environment, business 
By KATHY RUTKOWSKI 
Environment Writer 
It is quite likely that the one issue that can bring the world together in the aftermath of the Cold War is the environmental issue, according to Former Secretary of the Interior obsession with the car, according to Udall. "The automobile culture as we know it today is not sustainable," he said. 
He stated that the government has to take measures that would wean the country from its cars, like significantly raising the tax on gasoline and en­dorsing the widespread use of public transportation. 
He pointed out that even though jobs would be lost because of the above changes, " ... a lot of waste is resources, and can be made useful. Begin a real recycling program, and here is a whole new industry with... thousands of jobs." 
Udall said Americans need to avoid being "frozen in the attitudes of the past, the mistakes of the past." 
He also addressed the performance of the present Administration on environmental issues and the Earth Summit in par­ticular. "This president has been a big disappointment to me. I have trouble connecting his words with his deeds," he said. 
New ETF agenda 
By DIANNE 
SIMODYNES 
Environment Writer 
The Environmental Task Force, which is comprised of students, faculty and adminis­trators, and meets at various times each semester to examine campus related environmental problems and imple­ment solutions, has several new items on its agenda this academic year. 
The task force, chaired by Thomas Mason, vice president of business affairs, did not meet over the summer, but will re­convene this semester to address new issues including revisions in the smoking policy and the report on the natural areas around the campus. 
The natural areas report determined six specific, undisturbed habitats which will not be considered as potential sites for University expansion. The areas are important not only because of their historic will drive corporate life in the future. 

According to Noonan, in the first 200 years of this country's history, only 20 environmental laws were passed, while in the last 20 years, more than 200 have been passed. 
But the panelists agreed that, while 
we have made substantial progress and witnessed a change in many of our habits, much still needs to be done. "We need to recycle our way of thinking," said Noonan. "The next 50 to 75 years are going
b h · · 

to e t e most Important time we have seen," said Lorenz of the Izaak 
w 1 L "Th h'ld f
a ton eague. e c 1 ren o 
t d th th f t · 

o ay, ey are e u ure environ­mentalists, they are the natural resource we need to be caring for." 
"The future generations are the greatest stakeholders in what we do today," concluded Noonan. 
value but are also used 
by members of the 
ND/St. Mary's biological 
faculty for research and 
teaching. 

One project completed over the summer was the removal of asbestos from the com­puter/math building, according to Mason. 
Probable topics of discussion this semester include the reduction of junk mail on campus and the excess amount of packaging used in the dining halls, according to Ronald Hellenthal, associate professor of biological sciences and member of the task force. 
Continuing programs this year include the recycling program, air and water quality testing, and the use of natural gas as an alternate fuel in several university vehicles, according to Mason. 
"The Environmental Task Force is the first project where the working relationship with students has been one hundred percent," said Mason. 
---------------, 
I I I 



Viewpoint 
page 8 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of'either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Wednesday, September 30,1992 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
Upon reading Jon-Paul Hurt's letter to the Observer on Sept. 17, I felt that it deserved re­sponse. 
Jon-Paul Hurt, I respect your right to express your views to­ward alcohol and abuse, but when you start telling people how they should live their lives, I lose all that respect. 
You state that "getting drunk (is) a stupid way to waste an evening." For you, perhaps this is true, but for me and many others on campus it is not. 
I will be honest and 'admit that I drink and enjoy getting drunk. I don't consider this wasting my life, and it is cer­tainly not the "one and only means of having a good time." I drink because I like to and I want to. 
People drink because they like to drink, and if people want to get drunk at parties then I can only assume it is because 
DOONESBURY 
they want to. 

Simply choosing not to drink does not give you any right to go crusading against those who do. Your viewpoint toward al­cohol is no more "right" than mine, and I take great offense when somebody tells me how I should live my life. 
I am perfectly aware of the negative effects of alcohol, but that does not cause me to change my attitude about drinking. If you don't approve of what goes on at parties, then stop going; but don't expect people to change their lives just because you think they should. 
Mr. Hurt. please live your life your own way, and stop telling others how to live theirs. 
Just because someone acts differently does not mean that they act wrongly. 
Liam Mahoney Flanner Hall Sept. 17, 1992 
Check the dictionary, Irish Guard . .. 
Dear Editor: 
In the past few days, in wake of the controversy surrounding the Irish Guard, I could not help but notice in your publication that the Guardsmen have no less than three times referred to the allegations and subsequent actions against them as blasphemy. 
Webster's Dictionary defines blasphemy as: the act of insult­ing or showing contempt or lack of reverence for God" or as "irreverence toward something sacred or inviolable." 
One can only conclude that they would refer to these ac­tions as blasphemy for one of two reasons. 
Either they have extremely poor diction, which I find dis­turbing in students of such a university as Notre Dame, or they, in fact, regard themselves as Godlike, sacred, or invio­lable. 
If the reason for the reference to blasphemy by the Guardsmen is the latter, it reflects Webster's other definition of blasphemy: "the act of claiming the attributes of deity." 

If this is the case, it is easy to see how the Guardsmen could have caused their own down­fall. 
Molly Malloy Knott Hall Sept. 25, 1992 
.. . 'blasphemy' might not apply here 
Dear Editor: 
In regard to your Sept. 23 cover story about the suspen­sion of the Irish Guard, I must thank you for revealing to me that God has been on campus since 1951, and not only that, but also that He has attended every football game for these last forty years. 
I refer to the comments of Guard senior Chris Boone, who attributes the suspension of the Guard to, "rumors blasphemy, and other reports," and who characterizes the accusation of forced drinking involving Guard members as "one of the many blasphemous rumors." 
Now, I do not know about your dictionary. but mine de­fines blasphemy as: "a con­temptuous or profane act, ut­terance, or writing concerning God." 
Boone's comments thus seem to imply that the Irish Guard is, indeed, God, the Supreme Be­ing, the Almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth and Ruler of the Universe. 
This in turn raises some seri-
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ous questions. The Irish Guard is, after all, closely related to the band. Does this mean that the band shares in the Guard's Divine status? Is it therefore heresy to state that the band sounded out of tune at one game or another? 
I need to know the answer to these questions as soon as pos­sible, as it appears that the state of my immortal soul hangs in the balance. 


-

Accent 
September 30, 1992 
Jeannie Blasi 
From the Playpen 


Studying is 
life's only 
pleasure 
S 
tudy carrel! number 25: a second floor carrell on the South wall. $1,000, do I hear $2,000? $2,000 to the girl in the Sex Kills T-shirt. Do I hear $3,000? $3,000 to the guy in the Notre Dame baseball hat. Going once, going twice, sold for $3,000 to the guy in the baseball hat!" 
Welcome to the first annual "Study Carrell Auction", sponsored by Notre Dame's newest club, SLOP (Studying is Life's Only Pleasure). 
Yes, it's your wildest dream come true! SLOP has bought up all of the library's study carrells and is auctioning them off tQnight. Proceeds will go to benefit Notre Dame's newest charitable organization formed by SLOP, SOP (Stamp Out Partying). 
SOP is the combined effort of top University officials, students, and STUDS, South Bend's specialized study force, to squelch a students need for fun and relaxation. "Every moment wasted is a point lost, extracurricular activities are not for us!" is the groups' slogan. 
Four hundred library carrells, and 20 booths in LaFortune's Alumni room will be auctioned off. The booths are expected to be the least profitable as a result of the possible distractions of food and attractive persons strolling by the room's windows. 
All of the carrells have been refurnished 
in preparation for the auction. Each carrell has 
a key feature of a book locker attached 
underneath it so that the student can 
permanently leave his or her books without the 
inconceivable fear of having them stolen. 
In previous years, many students have had the horrible experience of having their books and/or notes stolen from their carrells; though many were able to purchase the books again from the bookstore, they wasted several quality study hours in the process. Several were unable to obtain jobs or get into the graduate schools of their choices as a result. The book lockers will alleviate this problem and save the careers of many serious students. 
Each student who purchases a study carrell will have his or her name engraved on a gold plaque on its wall. This feature, coupled with photo ID's will prevent 'imposters' from utilizing an individual's study area. 
In addition to photo ID cards, each student 
will receive special library keys to provide the 
opportunity to study all night long. 
Optional features will include, a refrigerator (so the student need not leave even for meals}, a desk lamp, alarm clock (for those pagans who may, perish the thought, fall asleep while studying), sound-proofing, and even a computer. What more could any college student ask for? These carrells are the Porsche's of study areas. 
AI Studitomuch, head of South Bend's study coalition, STUDS (Start Tons of Underage Studiers), supports the idea. He says, "We'll do whatever it takes to make these kids realize that their sole mission here is to study. If we can prevent just one student from becoming a worthless fool; to prevent one student from attending a football game, then our mission is successful. We won't give up until we've squelched their desires, until every last one of them lives to study, and studies to live. We will stamp out extracurricular activities. We are STUDS." 
Bea Nerdi, Social Coordinator of the auction, expects proceeds to top last years' "Slave-for-a-day" auction, in which students actually donated an hour of precious study time to be someone's 'slave.' Bea says, "Sorry Lou, but we expect to get over $20,000 for some of the most desirable twelfth floor carrells. We want to WIN. And I think most students realize that 'What's Important Now' is to study!" 
Jeannie Blasi is assistant production manager 
of The Observer. Her columns appear every 
third Wednesday in Accent. 
By JULIE WILKENS Assistant Accent Editor 

Y 
ou have just finished a day of classes at one of the most 
prestigious universities on 
the continent. You grab 
some friends and head an 
hour away to some of the finest ski slopes in the world. It is the second week of June. 
No need to pinch yourself. This scenario is possible with a slight change of scenery. Just pack your bags and leave South Bend, Indiana for Santiago, Chile. 
The Santiago, Chile Program is the newest addition to the International Studies Program. The brainchild of its director, Father Tim Scully, its first student send-off for the fall semester is scheduled for early March. 
"This is the real study abroad program," explained Scully. "Students are completely integrated into Pontificia Universidad Catolica (PUC), one of the great universities in South America. Not only is the curriculum rich and diversified, students will be able to experience democracy as it happens." 
Chile, according to Scully, has been a laboratory of experiments for different political arrangements. "When I first went to Chile 13 years ago, I got off the plane and I remember the sensation that the climate was so very different. I don't mean the weather, though the seasons are reversed from ours. It was just very political. You feel politics in the air like you can feel sports in the air." 
It was the constant political change that kept a study program from being established. "There hasn't been a stable government until now," said Dr. Isabella Charles, Director of Inter­national Studies. "But we are now eager to build relations with Chile, especially since President Patricio Aylwin A. was awarded an honorary degree from the University of Notre Dame this past May." 
Another factor in choosing Chile as a study abroad location has been the presence of the Holy Cross Order in the country for over 50 years. Father Don McNeill, Director of the Center for Social Concerns, approached Fr. Scully with the hope to implement an optional seminar into the curriculum that would offer students a chance to participate with Chilean students in what he termed, "experimental learn­ing." 

"It is not a service project," McNeill stressed. "It involves more visitation, similar to an urban plunge. Students would have the opportunity to visit poverty areas where most inter­national students wouldn't go. They would learn of the situation of the poor by visiting shanty towns, which are found outside of the city. 
"I want to make it clear," he continued. "There is a difference between experimental learning and service. It would be presumptuous for students to go down and teach Chileans unless they've been there for at least a few semesters. If students want to do some service while they are there, we have the contacts, but like at Notre Dame, it is strictly voluntary." 
The program itself is open to a wide range of majors. Because students are integrated completely into the university, they must possess at least four semesters of college Spanish. 
Fr. Scully emphasized some of the benefits of Pontifical Catholic University. "Even when you first arrive in Chile, you have the opportunity to undergo an orientation program by the Latin American Faculty of Social Science. This is a world famous Social Science and Humanities research organization. Its headquarters are located in Mexico, Ecuador, Argentina, and Santiago, Chile. They are a very big deal in Latin America!" 
Students will also have access to very interesting political figures because of Notre Dame's and the Holy Cross Order's friends in the government. "All of Patricio Aylwin A.'s children and grandchildren were educated at Holy Cross universities. And the next possible president, Eduardo Frey, is a Notre Dame graduate," said Scully. 
Housing is provided by Chilean families selected by PUC. "Chile is a very warm and hospitable country. Students will live and eat with their Chilean families. They will love and fight with their brothers and sisters," laughed Scully. "You become a part of their family, for better or for worse!" 
A unique aspect of the Chile program is that students may choose to go for one or two semesters. 
page 9 
Students should be juniors during their year abroad, although special cases for sophomores or first­semester seniors will be considered. 
Because the project is in its ex­perimental stage, Notre Dame is joining programs administered by the University of Wisconsin and the University of Michigan. "This semester we are determining if students are interested," said Dr. Charles. "If so, we will establish a separate program from Wisconsin and Michigan." 
While the program is still un­dergoing its trial run, the expenses will be the same as what the Wisconsin and Michigan students pay. The fees are approximately $6,985 for one semester or $13,100 for an academic year during 1992-93. The figures include academic and program fees, room and board, books and supplies, and round trip airfare. 
Chile is a diverse land. The climate is a moderate one, comparable to Sacramento, California. Although only about 90 miles wide, it stretches down the coast of South America with Santiago located near the center of the country. An hour to the east are the Andes mountains and the coast is about 40 miles west. North is desert region and one of the driest areas in the world; it has never rained in recorded history. Far south it becomes tundra, similar to Alaska. 
Santiago is rich with culture, explained Scully. "There are cafes, theatre, music, poetry, etc. It's the type of place that students will go to in the evenings with friends to sip glasses of wine and talk." 
Scully is extremely optimistic of the program. "I only have two concerns," he said. "My primary one is about language. These students will not be speaking their 'mother tongue.' That can be a lonely and painful experience. I also hope that people are mature enough to know in some sense, we are all poor. The trick is to be in the world without becoming the world." 
Students interested in the Chilean program should pick up an 
application at the International 
-
Studies office, room 420 in the Administration Building. Applications for the spring semester are due October 15. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,. 
page 10 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classitieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
-Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

2 Stanford GA's for sale. Call Joe at Found: Pair of round eyeglasses 1758. Best offer by Thursday gets I need 2 STANFORD GAs NOTICES in a gray case. Found in front of BICYCLE FOR SALE the tix. Leave a message if I'm not If you can help, call Chris at X2033 Attractive and physically well­the Snite. Call Jim x3411 Black Trek BOO 18" there. endowed Notre Dame student with Good Condition--2 yrs. old. good personality needs a date for 
HUNGRY LIKE THE WOLF $200. Call 232-2944 & ask for FOR SALE 2 Pitt GA's Best offer by i need 2 penn state GA's Oct. 10 SYR. 

DJ SERVICE 

Geoff. 10/5 call Ted 513-492-5190. call lisa X 4845 leave a message HELP!!! I am blind and need you I will provide transportation, PROVIDING MUSICAL to restore my vision I!! '82 VW FOR SALE I need P.S.U. tix beverages, and hours of fun ENTERTAINMENT FOR YOUR LOST: One pair of tortoise shelled CALL KEVIN 277 9311 Bob 3398 whoever answers this ad. 
PARTY, DANCE, OR SOCIAL maroon glasses and case. Please NEED YOUR GAsEVENT. 

call Mick at X1856 or heal my For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call I need two PENN STATE tickets. This is not a joke. I really need a affliction in 438 Stanford. Rita Delivery on Campus NEED YOUR GAs Either G I A or student. Please date.
COMPETITIVE RATES AND WIDE 234-6524 call Trish at 271-9059!!1

VARIETY OF MUSIC TO SUIT ANY Sell me your GAs so that my family You can call me AI ..

TASTE--80's, NEW WAVE, 4 SALE -4 STANFORD GA'S can come to the games. I will Yo! I NeeD 10 PeNN St GAs Badly at 283-2703.

ALTERNATIVE, CLASSIC ROCK, 

WANTED ALL TOGETHER X3311 MOE match all equitable prices to allow Please CaLL: PAT x2071
DANCE,etc., etc. 

them to come see the Golden 
• 4 Stanford student tix 4 sale. Dome. Thank You Selling student tickets & booklets. SMC SENIORS CALL KEN AT 277-4103 EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. 
Sorta cheap, but negotiable. X4012 Kyle 287-9118 I have BC GA's too. Luis 273-1528. This could be your last chance ...
EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. 

THE CRUSH NEED YOUR GAs Stanford GAs For Sale anonymous invitations are sent to ATIENTION: ALASKA SUMMER or Trade 289-3273 as many men as you would like. 
For more information and EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn 

TICKETS 
assistance regarding the $5000+/month. Free transportation! 

I NEED 2STAN & BC GA'S Beer and food provided for the investigation of financing, business Room & Board I Over 8000 I HAVE 2 UNSIGNED MARRIED CALL CHRIS #3830 casual gathering! 
opportunities and work-at-home openings. No experience NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX STUD TIC BOOKS -NO IDopportunities, THE OBSERVER necessary. Male or Female. For CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 REQUIRED 273 9689 WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR Oct. 2, 1992 5-tOpm urges its readers to contact the employment program call Student STANFORD GA TIX. CALL JOE AT King's Hall/ Castle PointBetter Business Bureau of Employment Services at 1-206-545-I NEED ND FOOTBALL I NEED TWO BYU GA'S FOR TWO @'& Tickets on sale at Haggar through Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 4155 ext. A5584. TICKETS.272-6306 
CHICAGO INNER-CITY YOUTH. 287-4561. Wed. Sept. 30th (11-tpm).
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­JON 232-0550 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-$$$ NEED MONEY? $$$ SELLING MUST BE 21!

9121 or 800-439-5313. 

WANTED: 2 STAN. G.A.'s 2 STANFORD GA'S Now hiring 10 drivers and 5 inside­STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 277-2645 Brian AND I NEED the MAN IN THE MOON says HI toTYPING help. Make $8-12/hour delivering 6 BC GA'S the GIRL IN THE WORLD (oh .
287-4082 lor DOMINO'S PIZZA. Pt. time and CALL 283-1747 I NEED STANFORD GAS CALL SCOTI X1157 and he's SMILING!) 
Full time available. Employee JOHN 271-2909 •••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE .... discounts on pizzas. Business is NEED STAN TIX 3374 5 VERY LARGE MEN will hurt me ifEntertainment for the 90's!!!! booming. Call Brian at 271-0300 to NEED STANFORD GA'S WORSE I don't have GAs for them when Find out what you're missing at: set up an interview. I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S THAN LIFE!! CALL RON x2002 I NEED 4 STANFORD GAs or they come for the BC game. PleaseCOLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics, WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 STUD. TIX. CALL MARY AT help. Jenn x4059. 

Toys & Games) 4609 Grape Rd. ND Alum couple visiting campus !! Need 2 Stanford GA's !! X3427.

JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's seeks capable, caring person(s) Need 2 GA's for STANFORD have 
Call Mike x1659 ...... Campus Musicians ........ M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6 from ND/SMC community to babysit 2 BYU GA's to trade or will pay $$ 
HELP HELP There will be an informational our 2 mo. old twins at Morris Inn Amy X2609 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HAVE STANFORD GAS meeting for all those interested in$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Oct. 1 &/or 2 for 2-3 hours. Flexible I NEED 2 BC GA'SI!I performing on a campus CD on to accomodate your class/study Have BC Stud. Tix call Dena x2191 Need two STANFORD GAs???? Wednesday, October 7th at 9:00 pm BECOME AN EXCHANGE schedule. Call Colleen collect 708-Will sell or trade for Penn St. & My sisters are NOT coming out and in the SUB office in Lafortune. 
STUDENT 615-1555. Stanford nx plus $ I need Stanford GA's I do have tickets for them. Questions?-Call Ryan at x1249 or Eric x1200 call Kathleen 4092 Please help them out. 239-7757AT&T Collegiate Investment Earn Free Spring Break Trips & THANK YOU Challenge $2500 Selling Spring Break $ RICH family needs 6 GAs $ ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY ROSCOE 287-9118 Do you have friends at DUKE or Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, $ for Stanford game $ HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE CHAPEL HILL? Do you have family Manage your own $500,000 Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & $Call Pat@ 1900$ AT 618-439-3338. HAVE STANFORD in the RALIEGH/DURHAM area? I portfolio and enjoy the excitement Prices! 1-800-678-6386. 
HAVE STANFORD need riders to share driving and of real Wall Street action. 
HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. expenses. Leave OCT29, return EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLY mailing our Please helpll! I'm in DESPERATE 7 BC game. Please call x3799. I NEED 1 STANFORD NOV!.
ENTER NOW! ENTER NOW! circulars!...Begin NOW! ... FREE need of Penn State GA's ..... 
Thanks. MARRIED or GA CALL LAURA x4801 Availability is limited, so hurry. packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box MIKE 289-3887 CALL 1-800-545-1975 ext. 12 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. Call Ann 284-5241 
HELP !I! Ditka loves Hangover Holly NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: Child care worker for STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 + CASH FOR 2 PSU GA'S in-home care of 2 five year-olds, TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC CALL MIKE x1768 TUTORS NEEDED: TOWN AND SENIORS! SENIORS! Fridays, 9AM-2. 287-5117. GA'S (715-359-0222) Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame COUNTRY COMMUNITY CENTER SENIORS!The Class of 1993 is 1-415-991-3416 call collect I need 2 Stanford GA'S and 1 stud. NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY going to Chicago to see MISS DEPERATEL Y NEED 2 PENN () tik. Call Mike at xtt15. PROGRAM, GRADE 1-6, 4:00-5:30 SAIGON on Oct. 8. nx are only STATE GA'S. CALL CLARKE Need 1 Stant. G.A. MON. AND WED. OR TUES. AND $25 tor play and bus transpo. nx X1748. NEED BYU pay top$$ Will trade one student ticket to BYU, THURS., STARTING OCT. 5, on sale now at LaFortune Info Desk. NEED BYU call Scott x4243 BC, and Penn St. plus cash for 2 PROGRAM DIRECTOR (teacher) I BUY BYUs X2319 BYU GAs. Call Pat at 271-2360. CONNIE EMMONS, 258-9973 OR My parents, grandparents and 288-3366 
CONGRATULATIONS I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE aunt & uncle are coming so I need NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S­
TO THE STUDENT EMPLOYED BY tickets for all of them. I am not KEVIN 271-8641 
NEW MEMBERS OF STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN picky about the GAs I need. 
STANFORD TICKETS IRISH ACCENT: PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION Please help out my family so that I NEED STANFORD TICKETS!!! STANFORD BARRY MANILOW FAN CLUB! 
AND NEED MANAGERS FOR they can see a game before I 
stud. tkts. FOR SALE!! I BARRY MAN I LOW FAN CLUB! Jimmy Byrne SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. graduate this year. 
CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. best offer. call #1756 We love him-don't you??? 
Erin Jager ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, Joe Gallatin x1161 
If interested, call Kim or Laurie at Joe Karian NILES, THREE 
Need 6 tickets for Stanford game 284-5057 William Lajoie RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES Thank You Thank You 

11!!1!!1!!!!!!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!11!1!1!11!1!!11!!1!1!! 255-9648 
Karen Lanigan EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT 

I 
Todd Murphy NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. () 
STANFORD'STANFORD' WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR Mike Norbut AND WORK HARD. AVG. 
HELP ME! GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 L THE EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800-Need GA tix for BYU will buy or I NEED STANFORD GA'S! A LAW THANKS TO EVERYONE 543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH. trade for my GA PENN ST tix. Butch IF YOU HAVE ANY HOTEL ROOM AVAILABLE W SCHOOL THAT TRIED OUT !! (209) 449-1800/439-6170. 
CALL Saturday Oct 3 Call 232-5656 CARAVAN HOTEL ROOM for Friday Oct 2 SABOL AT 283-2950 CHEAP! Close to ND s USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! wanted! Please call 232-5656 I have 2 BYU GA's!!! 
'STANFORD'STANFORD' C MONDAY, OCTOBER 5 BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday I am looking to trade these for 
1!1!!1!!!111111111!11!!!1111!1111!!!!!!!!!1!!1!!!!!!!1!!! $ $ $ $ $ H 10A.M--2P.M. 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard RIDE WANTED 2 Stan. GA's or 2 Penn St. GA's 
I!! NEED 1 STANFORD GA 0 Monogram Room, JACC 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 10/9-10/11 Joe x1395 
Call Kim x 1511 0 
to U-Mich I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket $ $ $ $ $ L ALL 

Typing 237-1949 $$$ for driver Need Penn St. Tix for the Stanford game. If you can STUDENTS Spee-Dee Wordprocessing #2331 Tony x 1786 
help, please call Suzy at x3722. C INVITED NEED TICKETS FOR STANFORD A 
I need Stan. GA's Need 1 0 plus BYU GA's PLEASE HELP, CALL 1573 R Over 50 Law Schools 
ILOST & FOUND I I FOR RENT 

Bob 3398 
Call#1852 A Nationwide NEED: 2 STANFORD GA's v 
Need GAs Any Home Games 
FOUND Watch 9/21 by lakes BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Need 2 Penn State GA's Call X1656 Jared A Career & Placement 
Megan 3818 
x4991 219-291-7153 Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 N Pre-Law Society Need 4 PITI tix!!! 
I have a Stanford GA and need a 
Lost!! My parents gave me a 2 room efficiency , utilities paid Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call Call Pete (1-800-322-0228) 
Penn State GA--want to trade? Call 
beautiful gold watch for Christmas $7 a day, 288-0955 1-800-922-BEAR. 
Jahnelle at 283-2998 
I 
Help
and I LOST IT!!! Most likely on 

North or Mod Quad, maybe in Math $NEED 2 STANFORD$ I need 1 Stanford GA LIKE TO GOLF? 
NEED STANFORD GA'S. CALL 
call x3008 HATE TO CARRY CLUBS?? SANDY 272-6194. THANK YOU. 
& Comp. building. If found, FOR SALE $GAs x3593$ 
.. .enter the LYONS HALL CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED call Amy at x4530 or x4525. 
NEED Stanford nx. Call Matt x1741 GOLF CLASSIC! 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 Want to trade 2 BYU GA's for 2 BC 
PERSONAL Have a Lyonite carry your clubs as
Found Dorm Room KEY on soccer 

86 vw.......................... $50 GA's Call Susan at x1675 
you tee off in hopes of the $1 00 87 MERCEDES .......... $100ball key chain call3312 claim. 
grand prize!! Watch for sign-ups in 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 4 STANFORD GAs FOR SALE 
Hey Niff Please return the dining h~~l;;;;·........
Choose from thousands starting CALL 271 1168 
the grey I NEED 1 BC GA,
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour 

TCTENNIS DAVE, x4506 Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S AND OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
sweatshirt you 

#IN11KJC. ONE STUDENT TIC PLEASE Snap, Crackle and Pop! your way tofound by the Stepan HELP!! GREG X1103 
the Career Placement Office to Sweatshirts For Sale!!! Handmadevolleyball courts 
submit your resume by FRIDAY. A Christmas & Irish Sweatshirts and last Thurs (9/24) 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR Erin #2331 
1 need 2-3 GA's for the Stanford friendly reminder from the Leo T-shirts for sale. For more I NEED A STANFORD TICKET, 
FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL 

game. Will pay lots of cash. Burnett Client Service Dept. information or to see samples call student or GA. 
Please call Diane, COSIMO'S 277-1875. LOST 35mm Pentax camera Angel x2545 
Kim 273-2967. x4059. 
Physician and Attorney wish towith black carrying case ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. 
NEED REASONABLY PRICED provide loving home for your child film is very important 
family can provide financial security, if found call x3385 
CHEAP FLIGHT NEED 2 Stanford nx 
G.A.S: 2 STANFORD AND 2 BC. filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. NY (LGA) to SB OCT 23 STD or GA. Good $$$ 
excellent education and wonderful 

CALL JUDY 239-6515. SORRY, I'M Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy 
-
Call Brian 273-0967 future for ,your baby. Please let usCall Bart 271-0759 Collect (708) 655-3124. 
Lost: Large, red and white umbrella POOR. 
help you in this difficult time. with red maple leaves on it (like a 
Confidential and legal. Medical Canadian flag). If found, 
'86 Cavalier RS, 2 door, black Need 2 G.A.s for Stanford! 
Have 2 BYU tix, need 2 BC tix. Will Fay. Excellent transportation call Julie x4189 
expenses paid. Collect anytime. please call Chris at X2033. swap. Call (201) 487-9000. 
(818) 246-1763$1,800 or best offer 

see CLASS/p. 13
Please call 284-5376 before 5pm 


BATT! NG-EMarunez, :seattle, ..>4~; r-u"""'· BASEBALL 
GENERAL 
Minnesota, .327; Thomas, Chicago..323: Molitor, American League
AMERICAN LEAGUE USA BASKETBALL-Named C.M. Newton 
Milwaukee, .323; Mack, Minnesota, .317; Grifley, CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Extended the contract
East Division president; Russell Granik vice president; Tom Jern­Seattle, .311; RAiomar, Toronto, .310. of Gene Lamont, manager. through the 1994 sea· 
w L Pet GB LID Streak Home Away stedt vice president for men; Susan Blackwood vice 
RUNS-Phillips, Detroit, 113; Thomas, son?
Toronto 93 65 .589 z-7-3 Won 2 50-27 43·38 president for women; Quinn Buckner treasurer: and Chicago, 108; RAiomar, Toronto, 102; EMartinez, TEXAS RANGERS-Signed a two-year player
Milwaukee 89 67 .571 3 z·9-l Won 6 53-28 36-39 Carol Callan secretary. 
Seattle, 100; Puckett, Minnesota, tOO; Knoblauch, development extension with Oklahoma City of the
Baltimore 86 71 .548 61/2 5·5 Won 2 43-38 43-33 HOCKEY Minnesota, 99; Raines, Chicago, 99. American Association.
Cleveland 75 82 .478 17 1/2 z-6-4 Won 2 40·36 35·46 National Hockey League 
RBI-Fielder, Detroit, 123; Carter, Toronto, 116; Netional Leegue
Detroit 74 84 .468 19 4·6 Lost I 37-42 37-42 CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Assigned Ray Le­
GSell, Chicago, 112; Thomas, Chicago, ttl; Belle. NL-Suspended Chicago Cubs pitcher Bob
New York 74 84 .468 19 z·5·5 Lost 3 41-40 33-44 blanc, Scott Brower and Roch Belley, goalies; Cleveland, 108; Puckett, Minnesota, 106; Scanlan and Philadelphia Phillies third baseman
Boston 70 88 .443 23 z-4-6 Lost 2 42-36 28-52 Steve Bancroft, Adam Bennett. Joe Cleary, Karl Devereaux, Battimore, 105; Winfield, Toronto, 105.
West Division Dykhuis, Dave Hakstol, Jell Sirkka, Mike Speer,
Dave Hollins for four games. HITS-Puckett, Minnesota, 201; Baerga,
w L Pet GB LtD Streak Home Away Milan Tichy and Kerry Toporowski, defensemen:
NEW YORK METS-Named Jefl Mangold 
Cleveland, 194; Molitor, Milwaukee, 189; Mack, strength and conditioning coordinator. and Alexander Andrievski, Zac Boyer, Shawn Minnesota, 182; EMartinez, Seattle, 181; Mattingly, x-Oakland 93 63 .596 z-4·6 Lost 3 48-27 45·36 
Minnesota 87 70 .554 61/2 z-6·4 Won I 47-32 40-38 
Arizona Fall Leogue Byram, Rob Conn, Trevor Dam. Tracy Egeland, New York, 180; Thomas, Chicago, 179.
Chicago 85 72 .541 81/2 z·6·4 Lost 1 50-32 35-40 Texas 74 82 .474 19 Z·4·6 Won 1 36-45 38-37 
AFL-Named Tim Purpura assistant to the pres· Justin Lalayette, OWen Lessard, Kevin St. Jacques, DOUBLES-EMartinez, Seattle, 46; Thomas, ident, Joan McGrath administrative assistant to the Steve Tepper, Sean Williams and Craig Woodcraft. Chicago,•43; Mattingly, New York, 40; Grilley,Calilornia 69 87 .442 24 3·7 Won 1 38-37 31·50 
Kansas City 69 87 .442 24 z-5·5 Lost 3 43-35 26-52 manager, and Peter Cosovich operational assis· forwards, to Indianapolis of the International Seattle, 39; Ventura, Chicago, 36; Jelleries. Kansas 
tant. Hockey League. Released Claude Maillet, de­City, 36; Yount, Milwaukee, 36. Eastern League fenseman, and James Adams, Greg Burke, Jason TRIPLES-Devereaux, Baltimore, It; ALBANY YANKEES-Named George Brzezin· Greyerbiehl, Chris Marshall and Tim Nieman, for­LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Anderson, Baltimore, 9; 
Seattle 60 96 .385 33 4-6 Lost I 34-41 26-55 
NATIONAL LEAGUE ski general manager. 
wards. Lofton, Cleveland, 8; RAiomar, Toronto, 8; Sierra,East Division BASKETBALL NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Signed Mike James. Oakland, 7; Carter, Toronto. 7; Raines, Chicago, 7; Notional Basketball Association goaltender, to a minor-league contract. Momor, Milwaukee, 7. 
w L Pet GB LID Streak Home Away x·Pittsburgh 95 63 .601 Z·8·2 Won 6 53-28 42-35 Montreal 86 72 .544 9 4·6 Lost 2 43-38 43·34 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed Carl Herrera. NEW YORK RANGERS-Assigned Mike Hulbut HOME RUNS-McGwire, Oakland, 41; forward. 
and Joby Messier, defensemen, and Brian JuGonzalez, Texas, 40; Fielder, Detroit, 34; Belle, Chicago 75 83 .475 20 1·9 Lost 8 40-37 35-46 
St. Louis 80 78 .506 15 5·5 Won 2 42-35 38-43 
LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Announced that McReynolds and Dave Thomlinson, lorwards, to Cleveland, 33; Carter. Toronto, 33: Deer, Detroit, Magic Johnson, guard, will return this season from Binghamton of the American Hockey League. 32; Tettleton, Detroit, 31. 
New York 69 89 .437 26 2·8 Lost 7 38-39 31-50 retirement.
4 28-49 SAN JOSE SHARKS-Loaned Hubie Mc­STOLEN BASES-Lofton, Cleveland. 63; West Division 
Philadelphia 69 89 .437 26 Z·9·1 Won 4t-40 
PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS-Named Eddie Donough, center, to San Diego of the International Ustach, Milwaukee, 54; Anderson, Battimore, 51; w L Pet GB LID Streak Home Away Doucette radio play-by-play broadcaster. Hockey League. Sen! Rick Lessard and Dean Kol· Polonia, California, 51; RAiomar. Toronto, 47; x·Atlanta 94 62 .603 6·4 Won 3 47·28 47-34 
SACRAMENTO KINGS-Named Travis Stanley stad, defensemen; Troy Frederick, center; and Jell RHenderson. Oakland, 47: Raines, Chicago, 44. 
director of public relatk>ns. Massey, right wing, to Kansas City of the lnterna· PITCHING ( 18 Decisions)-Mussina.Continental Basketball Asaociation
Cincinnati 88 69 .561 61/2 Z·8·2 Lost 1 51-25 37-44 
tiona\ Hockey League. Battimore, 17-5, .773, 2.56; JaMorris, Toronto, 20·6, ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Rich Antee.
San D1ego so 75 .516 131/2 3·7 Lost 2 45-36 35-39 
International Hockey League .769, 3.99; Bosio, Milwaukee, 16-5, .762, 3.44; center. 
Houston 76 80 .487 18 z·6·4 Won 3 42·33 34·47 
PEORIA RIVERMEN-Sent Darren Langdon, JuGuzman, Toronto, 15-5, . 750, 2. 76; McDowell, FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Irving Thomas.
San Francisco 69 88 .439 25 1/2 Z·5-5 Lost 2 42-39 27-49 
lorward, to Dayton ol the East Coast Hockey Chicago, 20·9, .690, 3.20; KBrown, Texas, 20·10, forward.
Los Angeles 62 95 .395 32 1/2 2·8 Won 37-44 25-51 
League and Devin Edgerton, forward, to Winston· .667, 3.28; Appier. Kansas City, 15·8, .652, 2.46. RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Signed Shelton Salem of the ECHL. Released Roger Larche, lor­STRfKEOUTS-RJohnson, Seattle, 233; x-clinched division title. 
z~enotes first game was a win. 
Jones, forward. ward; Joel Clark and Bob DesJardins, goaltenders. Perez, New York, 212: Clemens. Boston, 208; 
ROCHESTER RENEGADE-Signed Jamal SAN DIEGO GULLS-Released Steve Smith, JsGuzman, Texas, 174; McDowell, Chicago, 163; NATIONAL LEAGUE Coleman, forward.
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
defenseman; Bob Hartnell, center: and Mike KBrown. Texas, 161; Langston, Calilornia, 161. Monday's Games TAl-CITY CHINOOK-Signed Rodney Hawkins,
Monday's Games 
O'Hara. goattender. SAVES-Eckerslay, Oa~land, 51; Aguilera.
Baltimore 7, Boston 3 
Pittsburgh 10, Chicago 3 forward. SOCCER Minnesota, 40; Montgomery, Kansas City, 39;Cleveland 6, New York 4 
Philadelphia 7. New York 6, 10 mnings. tst Global Basketball Association FIFA-Named Michel Platini and Fernand Sas­Olson, Baltimore, 35; Henke, Toronto, 32; FAYETIEVILLE FLYERS-Traded Brian Martin, tre co-presidents of the 1998 World Cup Organizing JeRussell. Oakland, 30: Olin, Cleveland, 29.
Chicago 9, Minnesota 4 
California 6, Kansas C1ty 5, 1 1 mnings game 
Philadelphia 7, New York 6, 2nd game center, to Cedar Rapids for Keith Gatlin. guard. · Commitlee.
Only games scheduled Tuesday's Games 
St. Louis 4, Montreal I FOOTBALL Major Indoor Soccer League 
Only games scheduled National Football League SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Announced the res·Late Games Not Included 
Tuesday's Games DENVER BRONCOS-Waived Ricky Nattie!, ignation of Fred Whttacre, executive vice president
Cleveland 4, New York 3 
Late Game Not Included wide receiver, and Robert Perryman, running back. and general manager. Named Tim Latta, general Los Angeles 5, Cincinnati 0 DETROIT LIONS-Signed Troy Stradlord, run· manager. 
Toronto 5, Boston 2 
Baltimore 7, Detroit 2 
Atlanta 6, San Francisco 0 ning back. Waived Eric Lynch, running back. COLLEGEMinnesota 5, Chicago 4 
Texas at Oakland (n) 
Pittsburgh 3. Chicago 0 Waived Andre Jones, linebacker, from the practice CLEMSON-Announced the eligibility of Wayne NCAA Men's Soccer Poll squad. Activated Larry Tharpe. tackle, lrom injured Buckingham, forward, has been restored by the Sept 28
Milwaukee at Seattle (n) Philadelphia 5, New York 3 
reserve. Released D.J. Dozier, running back. 
NCAA. 1. Virginia 8·0 480Kansas City at California (n) St. Louis 2, Montreal 1, 10 innings 
HOUSTON OILERS-Agreed to terms with 
2. UCLA 7·0·1 455Wednesday's Games San Diego at Houston (n) Webster Slaughter, wide receiver, on a two-year NCAA Women's Soccer Poll

New York (Perez 12·16) at Cleveland (Miicki 0· Wednesday's Games 3. Duke 5-0-2 428 
contract. Waived Johnny Meads, linebacker. Sept 28 4. St. Louis 6·1 404t). 7:35p.m. 
Pittsburgh (Tomlin 14-8) at Chicago (Maddux 

KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Activated Darren Clemson
I. North Carolina 8·0 240 5. 5-0·2 355Boston (Young 0·41 at Toronto (Cone 4·2), 7:35 19-11), 2:20 p.m. 

Mickel!, defensive end. Waived Darrell Malone, 
2. Stanford 6·0 228 6. Washington 5-1-1 316

p.m. 
Los Angeles (P.Martinez 0·0) at Cincinnati cornerback. Waived Ron Goetz. linebacker, from 3. Connec!lcut 8·0 216 7. Bowling Green 7·0·1 306Baltimore (Milacki 6-7) at Detron (Doherty 6·4), (Belcher 14·14), 7:35p.m. 

the practice roster. 4. 
Portland 7-0 194 8. James Madison 7·1 2907:35p.m. 

San Francisco (Brantley 6·7) at Atlanta (Giavine 

MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Keith Jackson, tight 
5 Massachusetts 7-0 184 9. South Carolina 4-0·3 272ChiCago (Alvarez 5·3) at Minnesota (Erickson 20-7), 7:40p.m. 

end, to a series of one-year contracts. Released 6. NCState 6-2-1 182 9. St. Johns 6-0·1 27213·11). 8:05p.m. 
Philadelphia (Schilling 14-tO) at New York Jim Jensen, wide recetver. 7. Virginia 6·2 166 11. Penn State 7-0 235Texas (Guzman 15-11) at Oakland (Welch 11· 
(Fernandez 13·11), 7:40p.m. 

NEW YORK JETS-Waived Jason Staurovsky, B. Santa Clara 6·2 151 12. Creighton 5-2·0 2026), 10:05 p.m. 
Montreal {Hi\116-9) at St. Louis (Magrane 1·2), kicker. Claimed Cary Blanchard, kicker. oil waivers 9. SMU 7-2 150 13. Boston U 5-2 190Milwaukee (Bos1o 16·5) at Seattle (Leary 7·10). 

8:05p.m. 

I rom the New Orleans Saints. Signed Karl Wilson. 10. Hartford 7-0 129 14 
SMU 5-2·1 178San Diego (Seminara 9·4) at Houston {Blair 5-defensive tackle. Added Siupeli Malamala, allen· 11. William& Mary 7-2 121 15 Indiana 5-3-1 159 10:05 p.m. 
Kansas City (Reed 2·7) at California (Valera 8· 
7), 8:35p.m. 

sive tackle, to the practice squad. Placed Dennis 12. Colorado College 6·1 108 16 San Diego 6·2 89tO), 10:35 p.m. 
Thursday's Games Byrd, defensive end, on injured reserve. Waived 13. Central Florida 4-1 93 17. Adephi 5·0 74Thursday's Games Los Angeles at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. 

Anthony Prior. defensive back, from the practice 14. San Francisco at Atlanta, 7:40p.m. 
Chicago at Minnesota, 1:15 p.m. Wisconsin (@ Madison) 4-2·1 92 18. UNC Charlotte 5-1-1 64 
squad. 15. 6-2 t9.San Diego at Houston, 8:35p.m. 
Kansas Crty at California, 4:05 p.m. Duke 68 Dartmouth 4·1 62 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Waived Chris 16. 4-2-2 20.
Baltimore at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. Rutgers 60 George Mason 6·2 29
Only games scheduled Barber and Joe King. defensive backs. Re-signed 17. Cornell 5-1 49 21. Stanford 6·2 29Texas at Oakland, 10:05 p.m. 

Willie Culpepper, wide receiver. to the practice 18. Cal Berkley 38 38 22. SIU Edwardsville 7-1 23Milwaukee at Seattle, 10:05 p.m. 
squad. Released Kirk Kirkpatrick, tight end, and Jeff 19. James Madison 6-t-1 30 23. Stanford 6-3·1 22Only Games Scheduled Parker, wide recewer. from the practice squad. 20. NC Greensboro 4-3·1 8 24. Rutgers 4·3-t 20 
20. NOTRE DAME 4-2·1 8 25. Santa Clara 5-1-1 16 

Student Government's Mock Presidential Debate 

vs 

Moderator  WNDU Television's Mike Collins  
Questioners  Professor Patricia O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs  
Professor Tim Scully, C.S.C. Government Department  
Professor Walter Nicgorski Program of Liberal Studies  

Governor Bill Clinton Bill Dailey Junior Philosophy Major 
President George Bush Pat McCarthy Senior History Major 
Wednesday, September 30 
-

7 pm, Lafortune Ballroom (Theodore's) 

~--~~-­
~ ---~----------­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, September 30,1992 
.... 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

ND/SMC Equestrian Club is holding an intetmu:rat horse show October llfor aU fiierillfflts~ 'J'A~r~gistration<deadlintffo:t new members is October 2. Ifyou want more details call ~egan
283-2784 or Julie at 283-4042. ····.·.·.·.-.-......·....... ·· · 
Irish Youth Hock:y L::g~; I; l;king for ND students to coach {}r aJ;;sisLcoach~s dming the upcowi.Pg hockey ®~n; If 
interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271"7414, ·· ··· ..-.-.-.-.-.-.-.·.···· · · .·. 
.•.•.·. ....·:·: .: .......: ·-·.::·::: ..'::·::: ..-:::::-. '':·-·.. :·.·.·: 
The Alkld~ Club will be having;'b~ri ~~~~tice~ on Momlaysand Wednesdays from 6-8 219• Evepytin~ J!i · welcome. ·· · ···-) .,,,.,,, 
ND/SMC Fieki _~ock~y will hold pratUee onSeptel1lbe; ~0 ~t­9 p.m. Cor all interested; For more i:ti.fotmation; call Liz at ~83-.. 267o". . t.:.:.. :::m ··t • 
Officials are n~~~· f~~ :~~~~~ ~red· 
h~keibilJL T~ere .• 
will be a meeting Qli o~t9J,~r 8 .at$:30 p,ruU bttb.~ Jf\¢0 Auditorium. -• •••••••·•····-· ·-··· · }• kit I!}t•·••· 
······R~Sports.•is talein9'···e~i;~!•iJJ::~~=····~~~~i~~;·•••rile~:;: 
and women'sirit~iht!.l~ y()Uf'lY~~~~ ~g ~9~~~§ p~~~etbAII. •IS*~~y deadline is OctOber 7L :·:} 't:t:•:{:•r•••••• t 
.::::::::::::=::· ~ f\~:~:~i~:::i}:=:= :/~:~;}::i::;:;:;::::: :-:-:.·-:-:·:··.·.·/:_..·.. =.:!.::.:;::;::-:;:::::::-::·:-:-. 

ND crew team:.~·-P,cld~• ~eneral :meet;ng.on ~;pt~~~F3o at 7:30p.m; in l2i Nieuland. All rowers shpuld at~Jl(L ·-··· ····· .. .. 
.. · .. :.·.;::-:.:-:.:··· 

campt~~ uli;~:~::·,~:~~--·~~~~~····~~···:~~~-··~~~~~ef·· 30•--in the RecSports office. Thery_\Vfil.be a captain•s meetinffat5p,ln.
on October!. · ........ ·· ...·.·-·-··.·-· · · · •• ·•·•••·•••• .· · 

Just how much Johnson plays
Magic 

will be determined as the season progresses and he
continued from page 12 
undergoes repeated tests.
Dr. Michael Mellman, "He's going to listen to his

Johnson's doctor and a Lakers body, and we're going to listenteam physician, said the 6-foot­to him," Mellman said. 
9 superstar's decision to play again would present "a new 
Johnson said he had called Dr.
challenge" in treating an HIV­Jerry Buss, the Lakers' owner,positive patient. 
on Saturday to tell him he had decided to return, and that'There's some good and some final details of a contract would not so good," Mellman said. 
be taken care of in the next day
"He's a unique case. We've 
or two.

never done this before." 
Come on Baby.... 
I'm 
-20­
now! 

Happy Birthday Regina! 
-We Laue You! 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

. DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 

Wednesday, October 7, 8:10pm Thursday, October 8, 8:10pm Friday, October 9, 8:10pm Saturday, October 10,8:10 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
-Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 
Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 
Cavanaugh hands Morrissey its first loss 
BY KEVIN JANICKI Mike Clancy took advantage goals for Carroll and Tom Leahy Sports Writer of an errant Morrissey pass to scored one. send a ball from the left to for­Other scores: Flying Butress 
After beginning the season ward Brian Magee on the right defeated O.C. I 2-0, Zahm A with two victories in mediocre who punched the ball high into defeated Grace A 2-0, Alumni performances, the Morrissey the net. shut out O.C. II 3-0. and Zahm interhall soccer squad hoped to Cavanaugh improved its B beat a struggling Stanford B finally notch a win with a solid record to 3-0 and finishes its team 5-2 . performance on Sunday after­season this afternoon against noon against Cavanaugh. Stanford A. Morrissey will take Monday's Scores: 
But a strong Cavanaugh team its 2-1 record into their final Zahm A 3, Fisher 1 with a great deal of momentum game on Sunday against Sorin. Kevin Gibson, Scott Ecker, proved too much for the Manor, Keenan 3, St. Ed's 1 and Greg Bachman scored winning 1-0 on a second half Mike Pugh, Thad Cuasay, and goals as Zahm A (3-1) finished goal by captain Brian Magee. freshman Lou Vricella scored the season with a 3-1 victory 
Morrissey struggled all goals as Keenan defeated St. over Fisher. Fisher finished the afternoon trying to mark open Ed's 3-1. season 1-1-2. men on their own third of the Dillon 2, Sorin 0 field, while a stagnant offense 
Despite a 20-5 advantage in Flanner B 5, Stanford B 2 
was unable to string passes to­
shots taken, Sorin was shut out Flanner B controlled Stanford gether. The Manor did play 
by Dillon 2-0. Brian Piper and B, winning 5-2. Shaun Tulley,well enough to fend off Ca­Steve Hallisey did the scoring Anthony Muehlberger, and vanaugh attacks on goal for 
for Dillon which improved to a Justin Malley each scored one most of the game and even 1-3 record. Sorin fell to 0-2. goal and Greg Koenig added launched a few shots of their 
two for Flanner while Matt Mc­
own, but with under fifteen 
Carroll 3, Grace B 1 Carey and Frank Cristinzil 
minutes to play, Cavanaugh fi­Carroll continued its winning scored for Stanford B. Flanner nally notched the goal to decide streak by defeating Grace B 3-B finished the season 3-1. 
the game. 
1. Rudy Christopher scored two Stanford B ended up 0-4. 
SENIOR 

~CLUB 
THURSDAY NIGHT Need We Say More? The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 
9,2 
must be 21 
Office and The 
Sti.Ja 

~ 
~tJ.
o,e'0 Present vl}10 
s"i(,._-v. ,.-----------------.'I} & 
_,<'{;:-0 
0~ 

. " 
/"-~ 
Every Thursday Night 9:00pm-midnight basement lounge LaFortune Student Center 
OPEN MICROPHONE BEGINS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1 
all are welcome -active participation encouraged 


Wednesday, September 30,1992 
Notre Dame soccer rebounds to defeat DePaul 

Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team rebounded from a tough loss to Indiana with a 3-0 win over DePaul Tuesday in Chicago. 
Irish coach Mike Berticelli said his team would be ready to play, and they proved him right. 
Neither team put together much of an offensive attack in the first half, but the Irish got the job done when it counted. 
Freshman Shawn Bryden got the Irish on the board late in the half on an assist from classmate Bill Lanza. 
In the second half, sophomore Keith Carlson converted a header off a throw in from senior Brendan Dillman to put the Irish up 2-0. 
With 11 minutes left in the game, senior Kevin Pendergast 
Tickets $14/$12 
iced the victory with a goal on an assist from junior Mike Palmer. 
Pendergast's goal was the 28th of his career and he is now tied for ninth on Notre Dame's career goal scoring list. 
The offensive performance was quite an improvement over Friday night's game against Indiana, in which the Irish managed just one shot on goal. 
Defensively, the Irish held DePaul to just three shots on goal as sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader recorded the 14th shutout of his career. He needs just eight more to tie Notre Dame's career shutout record. 
Notre Dame improves to 4-3­1, while DePaul falls to 5-3-1. 
The Irish return home Friday to face Xavier and again on Sunday when Dayton visits Alumni Field. 


Armando·s Barber & Hair Style Shop 
1639 Edison Road South Bend, IN 46637 Walking Distance from Campus Across from the Linebacker Appointments Encouraged Walk-ins taken on a 1il come, 111 serve basis 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 HOW GOOD IS YOUR COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICE? A national magazine is investigating the quality of college health clinics, and would like to hear female students' stories. All names will be kept confidential. Please send a short account of your experience along with your phone number to: Box 125, 1275 First Ave. New York, New York 10021. 
SENIORS: DON'T MISS OUT!! Deadline for Senior Rap-Up is this Friday. Sign up now at the esc. 
SELL ME YOUR BC TICKETS!!! I HAVE MUGHO DENAROI CALL X4990 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office. located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. 
SENIOR 

Friday-Sunday, Nov. 13-15 
Saint Mary's presents AN EVENING OF OPERA AND DANCE Tickets $6/$5 
MOREAU GALLERIES, Brinsley Tyrrell, sculpture; Lilian Tyrrell, tapestries; Oct. 9-Nov. 6. Admission free. 
COMING ATTRACTIONS... ACDA Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir, Oct. 31... The Statesmen, Nov. 6 ... The Ink Spots, Nov. 21. 
---~--­Saint Mary's Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


!CLUB 
Alumni--Senior Club 
presents 

PALACE LAUNDRY 
Wednesday Night 
9--2 

Come check 'em out 
must be 21 

DROP DEAD, NIFF! 
Hey Leah, I'm tall enough, damn it. 
Yet another opiate for the masses PALACE LAUNDRY 
F =caliente! 

WE FOUND HER! JILL'S NOW AT "WE CARE HAIR". CALL HER FOR A CUT 
AT 271-7674. 
Rick HAPPY BIRTHDAY! You can smile today! 
Love Colleen The Jolly Green Giant is BIG on you I Resumes due this FRI! A friendly reminder from the Leo Burnett Client Service Dept. 
Terese DeCoursey is Notre Dame's 
goddess of 
love... 
Dear Bryan: Hope you had a super birthday--Your secret surprise should arrive any day! I can't wait!! Have a great day. 
love PAC 
To The KKK(Kath, Kerg, and Kavanaugh), Brace yourselves for the weekend--Only four days to BOONES TIMEII Love PEGGY 
$51!DUQQ9Qt2f2~ 
(jreat S'Y!JV!Forma[ (jifts 
Jfuurs: {219} 271-2001 %on-Sat 10-9 Surufay 1 0· 6 
1627 Uison 'l(pad • Suutli. 'Bent{, !'}{_46637 Jil.cross tfre strut from Lineback?-atfjacent to Jamison fnn • $5.00 cuupon· witli. $15.00 minimum purclinse • 'Britton 1(nowCe.s· Owner 



ANDREW DICE CLAY 
IN CONCERT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6th 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 

Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records, Orbit Records, and World Records CHARGE BY PHONE 235-9190 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions and Contemporary Presentations 
.. 
-

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 30,1992 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Belles Upset Cardinals 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Division II power Indianapolis Tuesday 15-11, 17-15, 8-15, 15-5. 
1!1•1!1 
~ G' r rr ) ~ 
~ 1arisS a 0ljall0 Way S ~ 
i~ G0lfeeh0 use i~ 
~ ~ 
~ OjJensfonJjrJ.lf ~ ~ al c5f 'Jl(ary's Clubhouse ~ ~ wee£/j hours: ~ ; Weckesday<f-12p.m. ~ = !Jriday 3-6p.m. ~ = c'5a!urday <f-12 p.m. ~ ~ 23ring your oam mug/ ~ 
[!).[!) 
World's Createst 
Laundromat 

1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center (Behind Werntz Hardware) 271-7675 Open 7 days • 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
;---w~;.~;G;~;rl~~d~;;r---1 
I 1813 South Bend Ave., at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center I 
(Behind Werntz Hardware) 

I Open 7 ·Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM I 
: 50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry : 
-I regular 65C a pound I Same Day Service 
L-----------------------~
Drop oH laundry and dry cleaning Same day service Monday-Friday 

•self 
service •snack bar 

•free 
coffee •no smoking sections 

•children's 
play area •4 TV's & t big screen 

•pool 
table •video games 


•friendly 
attendants •air conditioned comfort 


Irish volleyball can't hold on against ISU 
Special to the Observer "Hitting 28 percent against a helped them get back into the team like Notre Dame feels very games.NORMAL, Ill. -Four players good, especially since we broke "At times, we got down three 
had 12 or more kills as Illinois down in passing in the second or four points and the crowd State. upended No. 21 Notre and third games." got excited, which got us ex­Dame in volleyball 17-15, 9-15, Actually, Notre Dame had an cited," said senior outside hitter 
7-15, 15-5 and 15-12 Tuesday opportunity to beat the Red­Jan Madlock. at Redbird Arena. birds 3-0. The Irish led the first game 12-5 when sophomore Irish coach Debbie Brown 
Michelle Rucker led the Red­Michelle Nyblin came off the never thought the Redbirds bird attack with 16 kills, fol­bench to serve six unanswered were that far away. lowed by 15 by Jeanette New­points to get the Redbirds back "Even when we had big leads, 
berry, 14 by Kim Nelson and 12 in. we knew ISU would be there," by Carla McQueen. said Brown. "The parity around The Irish led 15-14 when the nation is getting better and But Redbird coach Julie Mor­Carla McQueen took over the better. Any team that goes in gan saluted her setter Karen service and finished out the and doesn't play well is going to Hopkins whose 48 assists game for Illinois State, ending lose." 
helped the Redbirds out-hit with an ace for the winning Notre Dame .281 to .091 for the point. Janelle Karlan set a new match. In games two and three, the Notre Dame career assist 
"Karen's setting was excel­Irish took leads of 7-0 and 5-1 record. Her 32 assists, giveslent," said Morgan, whose team before ISU got started. her 3054 for her career, 21 raised its record to 11-2, as But the Redbird players be­than previous record­
more Notre Dame fell to 12-2. lieved the crowd of 1,102 holder Taryn Collins. 
CHILD CARE AWARENESS WEEK SE.PTE!\!If3EH 28-OCTOBER 2, 1992 
CAMPUS FORUM ON CHILD CARE 
Wednesday, Septemt)cr 30 7:00pm Foster Hoorn (3rd Floor, Laf'ortune Student Center) Issues: What are child care needs on campus? What makes quality child care? ~low can we bring quality, affordable care to NO? 
The second annual 

BRING YOUR CHILD TO LUNCH DAY 
Friday, October 2 12 noon Lunch at Oak Hoom (Soutt·1 Dining Hall) atl2:45orso (weather permitting) Play on lawns in front of tf1C Dome (AdminiStr<:Hion building) Balloons & sidewalk chalk <:lvailable 
All stuc1ents, staff and faculty members are invited to join us Let's give kids a chance at :"iotre Dame! L---------~sp~o~ns~o~re~d~t>~y~tt~Je~G~ru~d~ua~te_.s~·,_ud_c_n,_t_Jn-lo_n_an_d_t_hc_G_iv_e_K_id_s_a_c_h_an_c_c_co_a_lit_io_n________~
·····rr··o··N..t..G..H..T...!......l 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

• • • 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
• JIM WAND • •• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

•
• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
• Master Hypnotist • • • 
•

• 
• 
•

• 
•

• 
•• • at 8:00p.m. in the •• • •
• 
•

• •
• 
•

• 
•• • Library Auditorium •• 
•

• 
•
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
•

• 
•
•

• •
• 
• • 
•• Tickets available at the •• •
•

• 
:LaFortune Information Desk and~
• 
• 
•

•
•• at the Door for $3.00! •• 
•

•
• 
•

• 
•

• 
• 

• • Grab your friends---you won't • 
• 
•
•

• • 
•

• 
• want to miss this! ! ! • •• 
• 

• 
•

• 
•

:............................................................... 
Today 
Wednesday, September 30,1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


"AAAAAAAAAA! It's Sid! Someone snuffed him!" 
CAMPUS 
Wednesday 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Diamonds: Physics and Fiction," Prof. 
A.K. Ramdas, Purdue University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by Physics Department. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Fall Lecture Series, Racism: Women's Voices, "Beating the Odds," Maritza Robles, South Bend Community School Corporation. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, SMC. 
Thursday 
12:15 p.m. "A Report From the Gorbachev Foundation," David Cortright, visiting faculty fellow, Kroc Institute. Conference Room 103, The Hesburgh Center. 
Notre Dame 
Shrimp Poppers Grilled Turbot Tortellini 
Saint Mary's 
Pasta Bar Moussaka Beef Fajitas 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

BILL WATTERSON 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Altman film: 1970 
5 Father of the Federal Reserve 
10 Choir member 14 Dissenter 15 Tennis 
exchange 16 Lamb's alias 17 Deer country? 19 Verdi heroine 20 Kind of current 21 He of the knitted 
brow 23 Thrown 25 Plf. 's antagonist 26 Cooking abbr. 29A Turkic 
language 63 Hodgepodge 64 Wildebeests 
answer the call? 66 Norse capital 67 An 18th-century 
American portraitist 68 Entertainer Adams 69 Ndted army surgeon 70 Worked for the C.I.A. 71 Shoot off one's mouth 
DOWN 
1 Neither fern. nor ·neut. 2 Kind of pier 3 R.b.i. or e.r.a. 4 Exhilarating moments 5 Got a sheepskin &Quiescent 7 The Greatest 8 Like a snail 9 Clerical governing body 10 Snack for Smokey? 11 Part of et al. 12 Facet 13 Region of SW 
Germany
18 Actor Nick 22 Give new appearance to 24 Country of long fish? 


Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
31 Impurity in metal 35 Inn, in lzmir 37 Usable asset 39 Poppaea's third husband 40 Glasgow or Terry 42 Nantes notion 43 Sihanouk's homeland 45 Belgian seaport 47 Shado.w 48 Pulled along so Spanish king 51 Originally named· 53 Highly ranked noblemen 55 Means 59 Leads astray 
26 Colored 27Vilify 28 Stendhal's "The 
Charterhouse of 
30 Western Indian 32 Demand 33Locale 34Rundown 
36 Headwear for a bird? 38 Deceived: Slang 

41 Weeks in the 
yearMMI 44 Bread spread 46 Edberg or Borg 49 Scrap 52 Perimeters 54 Concierge 
55 Othello, e.g. 56 Otherwise 57 Mah-jongg piece 58 Piece of cake 60 Bach finale 61 Mavourneen's 
home 62 Editor's notation 65lnst.inthe Ocean State 
COMING ATTRACTIONS: 
THURSDAY 
Acoustic Cafe Featuring Victoria's Real Secret 9:00p.m.-12:00 a.m. LaFortune 
Rebel Without a Cause 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 

FRIDAY 
The Russel Simmons Def Comedy Jam -As seen on HBO ­
8:00 p.m.Stepan Center 
$10.00 Father of the Bride 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
SATURDAY 
Father of the Bride 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
_. 
ST\IUENT UNION 110'-RD 


By JENNY MARTEN  
Associate Sports Editor  
Consistency was the word of the day at Lou Holtz's press  
conference yesterday afternoon. The veteran coach told of a  
need for consistency when Notre Dame is on the football field.  
"We don't do the little things on offense that we need to do.  
We are not very consistent. We have become too much of a big  
play football team. I would like to see us become far more con­ 
sistent on offense that we are," said Holtz.  
Holtz praised the individual efforts of the offensive line in  
recent games, but once again spoke of consistency.  
"Justin Hall played well. Lindsey Knapp is a solid football  
player. Aaron Taylor has the chance to be an outstanding  
football player and Tim Ruddy is also expected to be a good  
football player.  
"Collectively (on offensive line), we haven't been as consistent  
or as good as we'd like to be. Individually, they're playing well,  
but collectively I worry about us. With Mirko Jurkovic, Gene  
McGuire and (Tim) Grunhard on the line, we were used to  
controlling the line of scrimmage and I feel that we haven't  
controlled it as we have in the past," said Hultz.  
Holtz was encouraged with the play of the Irish defense  
against Purdue. The Notre Dame coach said he was especially  
happy with the way the Irish stopped the Boilermakers on third  
down, but even the defense has room for improvement in  
consistency. Observer/Kyle Kusak  
"Defensively, I was pleased with the way we played. Our Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer and the rest of the Irish offense  
tackling was much crisper," said Holtz. "Consistency-wise, we is searching for consistency.  
have a long way to go."  Purdue game with a win despite the rain. He's also thankful  
There is one area in which the Irish have been consistent in  that Stanford is not a member of the Big Ten.  
the last two games: a lack of fumbles. Notre Dame did not give  ''I'm glad to be done with the Big Ten. It's a very difficult con­ 
up the ball on the ground against Michigan State or Purdue.  ference and a very physical conference. When you play four  
After opening the season with four consecutive games against  conference teams in a row, it is difficult if you don't belong to  
Big Ten teams, Holtz said he was happy to come away from the  that conference," said Holtz.  

JASON KELLY 
Match Point 

1---:::--:::-~:---:--~----~---f 
Magic Johnson is finally back where he belongs 
He's back where he belongs. 
When the Los Angeles Lakers travel 
to Honolulu next week to begin training 
camp, Magic Johnson will be along for 
the ride. 
It's good news for the Lakers and for 
the fans, but most of all, for Magic. 
"That court is where I belong, no 
matter what happens," he said 
Tuesday. ''I'm playing again. Finally." 
That's the sentiment of his legions of 
fans worldwide. 
No one has ever looked more 
comfortable on the basketball court, or 
more uncomfortable off of it, but more 
important concerns had to be 
addressed before he returned to the 
rigors of an NBA season. 
That kind of physical activity is 
unprecedented for someone who is 
HIV-positive and his doctors simply 
don't know what to expect. But since 
his retirement last November, Magic 
has worked out tirelessly, adding 
fifteen pounds of muscle and tons of 
hope for a successful return. 
"There's some good and some not so 
good," Lakers team doctor Michael 
Mellman said. "He's going to listen to 
his body and we're going to listen to 
him." 
Some people say that a strenuous 
basketball season could ultimately take 
his life, but he is never more alive than 
when he is on the basketball court. 
Take basketball away and he suffers. 
His fans suffer too. 
They miss seeing him grab a 
rebound, turn and fire a bullet of a 
court-length bounce pass to a streaking 
James Worthy. 
They miss seeing him take a pass in 
the lane, muscle up against a defender, 
spin and sink his baby hook shot. 
They miss seeing him step up to the 
three-point line in a big game and bury 
that ugly jump shot. 
Now they will see it all again. 
But what keeps bringing him back? 
After winning five NBA championships 
and three MVP awards, what's left? 
It's not the awards that bring Magic 
back, however, it's his love of the game. 
Even a life-threatening illness can't 
keep him from competing. 
Questions about his health will hang 
like a cloud over his every move, but 
even Magic Johnson wouldn't sacrifice 
his life just to play one more game. 
He and his team of doctors will 
monitor his condition carefully and 
constantly, and the moment his health 
begins to deteriorate, he will leave the 
game for good. 
But for now, he's healthy and he's 
here to stay. 
And he won't dwell on his illness or 
the repercussions that a grueling NBA 
season could bring. 
Instead, he is simply looking forward 
to the competition and the chance to 
return to the game he loves. 
His fans are happy to have him back, 
but Magic is even happier. 
This is where he belongs. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Men's soccer defeats DePaul 
see page13 
•Penguins close to signing Lemieux see page 13 
IIVolleyball loses to ISU 
AP File Photo 

see page 14 Magic Johnson <=tnnounced Tuesday that he will return to the NBA this season despite suffering from HIV. 
~--------------------------~ 


Sports 
page 16 

Consistency is Holtz's main concern against Stanford 
Magic Johnson returns to the Lakers 
Despite illness, Magic can't leave the game that he loves 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) -Unable to leave the game he loves even to fight for his life, Magic Johnson returned to pro basketball Tuesday. 
Less than a year after retiring because he had contracted the AIDS virus, Johnson announced that he will play again this season for the Los Angeles Lakers and said it was only natural. 
"That court is where I belong, no matter what happens," Johnson said, speaking in the same room where his bade his sad, shocking goodbye last Nov. 7. 
''I'm playing again," he beamed. "Yeaaaa. Finally." 
Johnson probably won't play full time­50-60 games is the starting point for this season -and he'll be checked and double-checked by doctors who admit they don't know just what the grind of professional basketball will do to a man with Johnson's medical condition. 
But from the parquet floor of Boston Garden to the Roman pillars of the fabulous Forum, he'll be back, wearing No. 32, flashing that big smile and playing the game as only Magic can. 
"It's time to go back to work, it's time to have some fun," Johnson said. "I think the positives outweigh all the risks. That's not saying there are no risks, because life itself a risk. But being out there, I won't be worried about that. If I was concerned about that, I'd still be retired." 
The mood this time was decidedly different from that retirement announcement 327 days ago. This time, Johnson frequently laughed and joked with his wife and reporters, flashing his famous trademark smile. 
"This is a lot more relaxed ... better," said Johnson, showing the bulk of an added 15 pounds he gained through rigorous weight-training. "It was much tougher then, because I was having to say goodbye." 
Johnson's wife, Cookie, said she was behind his decision to return "totally ... 100 percent." 
Since Johnson announced his retirement, there had been a steady stream of speculation and controversy about his future, mixed with his triumphant appearances in the NBA All­Star Game in February and the Olympics this summer. It was that success and the lack of additional medical problems that convinced Johnson to return. 
"The true test for me was playing against the players in practice on the Olympic team and watching as I was just getting better and better, playing hard against them every day, going at it like it was a regular game," Johnson said. "Also, getting back here, putting on 15 pounds, playing every day, as we did this morning with the guys at UCLA. 
''I'm feeling good and it's time to get back to what I was doing." 
Johnson, 33, said there was never a time after the Olympics that he thought he wouldn't return, but waited to make the announcement because, "Now is the perfect time. It's only a week until training camp." 
The Lakers report to Honolulu on Oct. 8 to begin preparations for the season. Their first game is Nov. 6 against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
see MAGIC/page 12 


