The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 43 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Character and domestic issues do.minate debate 
By SANDY WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
Questions of character and at­tention to the domestic front figured prominently in a debate between the Notre Dame Col­lege Democrats and College Republicans Wednesday, but policy issues also surfaced. 
Junior Jerry Boyle and sophomore Kevin Schmitt rep­resented the student Republi­can club, and sophomore Chris Setti and sophomore Andrew Holmgren represented the stu­dent Democrat club. Panelists were government professors Suzanne Marilley, John Roos and Patty Davis. Moderator was professor Sharon O'Brien, gov­ernment chair. 
Schmitt questioned Demo­cratic nominee Bill Clinton's moral authority to lead the country through times of trial. Setti responded by referring to Clinton's opposition to the Viet­nam War, "Sometimes I think it is more patriotic to tell your country that they're doing something wrong than to follow it blindly." 
Boyle later repeated Vice President Dan Quayle's ques­tion, "If there was an interna­tional crisis tomorrow, who would you trust?" 
Setti charged Bush with ig­noring domestic issues, and Boyle answered that Bush's policies for the domestic front have been undermined by Congress. 
Later a member of the audi­ence asked how Bush would work with a new Congress after the election if it were still predominantly Democratic. Boyle said "gridlock would be better" than implementation of Clinton policies. 
The students also discussed the following: 
•School choice: Holmgren asked, "Where does that leave our public schools?..You're rei­
see DEBATE/page 4 


TheObserver/T.J. Harris 

Getting ready for the big game 
The student football managers paint football helmets in the varsity locker room in preparation for the game this weekend against.Navy. 

Power to shape judiciary ignored in campaign Rally to educate campus 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Terry Eastland of the con­next president could choose to servative Ethics and Public Pol­about Clinton-Gore ticket 
********** 

get a fast start on what may be­icy Center noted that, histori­come his longest-lasting legacy ELECTION 192 cally, an average of two By DANA ANDERSON The Democrats not only hope 
News Writer to attract more people to the
-shaping the federal courts Supreme Court vacancies occur rally with the bands and get
and, through them. molding during each four-year presi­
The College Democrats are them interested in the Clinton­American law. None of the • Election/page 9 dential term. But he said, "With attempting to educate the cam­Gore ticket. but also to pull to­candidates has seemed to no­the court so deeply split on
the future of church-state 

pus about the Clinton-Gore gether all the Clinton people ontice. relations and police powers. abortion and several other ticket by holding a political rally campus for a "farewell to Ge­
About 100 of 828 federal significant issues, one ap­
"Whoever is president the today which will include several orge Bush party". according to 
judgeships are waiting to be pointment takes on greater im­
next four years will be able to speakers and three bands, ac­Holmgren. Campus bands filled, but three debates yielded portance."
change dramatically the dy­cording to club president An­Chisel, Grope for Luna, and not a single comment about namics of the federal courts," Abortion seems to be the only drew Holmgren. Dissfunktion will be performing how George Bush, Bill Clinton said Steven Shapiro of the legal issue mobilizing voters. The rally will feature the at the rally. 
or Ross Perot would use such "The outcome of this election presidents of both the ND and Another goal of the rally is to
American Civil Liberties Union. 

appointments to affect a gener­will determine whether the SMC chapters of the College encourage people to vote and
"This was much more of an ation of justice. election issue four years ago, court will allow states to. outlaw Democrats as speakers. In take an interest in public af­
addition, incumbent Tim Roe­fairs, whether they are Repub­So what can be expected as abortion," said Kate Michelman 
but it retains enormous political mer, member of the U.S. House lican or Democrat. "I feel thatthe winner names scores of resonance." of the National Abortion Rights 

of Representatives, will there is not a lot of interest in
trial and appellate judges, and Action League. "This is not just
Thomas Jipping of the con­probably participate as a public affairs and being active

perhaps alters the Supreme a four-year change, but of
servative Free Congress Foun­speaker. about them here on campus,Court's balance of power? critical importance to women
dation agreed. "Federal courts Speakers will cover topics especially as compared to other 
Probably at stake: the con­for 40 years to come, an oppor­
face a far different future if including Bill Clinton, George universities where these issues 
tinued legality of abortion and tunity to secure the constitu­
Clinton rather than Bush is Bush and 12 years of a Repub­would stir up big campus de­legitimacy of affirmative action. controlling judicial appoint­tional protections recognized in lican executive branch, and the bates, said Holmgren. Possibly hanging in the balance: ments," Jipping said. Roe vs. Wade." importance of voting. see RALLY/page 4 

Sgt. Moon: Common sense neccessary to avoid confrontations with S.U.D.S. 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT largely in response to the prob­Decisions to raid certain bars News Writer lem of drinking by high school or parties are based on the students, Moon said. It is com­number of complaints and on 
Responsibility for actions and prised of members of the law suspicion of underage drinking basic common sense must be enforcement forces of South by members of S.U.D.S. This used if students wish to avoid Bend, Mishawaka, St. Joseph's suspicion can come from per­confrontations with S.U.D.S. County, and the Indiana State sonal observations or from re­(Stop Underage Orinking and Excise Police. ports by undercover police, Sales) and the excise police, ac­Moon said. cording to Sgt. James Moon of Members of S.U.D.S. raid bars It is up to the discretion of the the South Bend Police Depart­and parties where there is officer whether or not breatha­ment and Sara Bewley of the probable cause of underage lyzer tests will be offered. Un­Indiana State Excise Police. drinking because they want to derage students who refuse to 
Moon and Bewley spoke last prevent drunk students from take the test receive tickets for night at a program titled "Get to putting themselves in poten­consumption of alcohol by a Know the Law Before the Law tially dangerous situations, ac­minor, according to Moon. Gets to Know You," an open fo­cording to Moon. Such situa­rum presented by the Office of tions include traffic accidents, If it is their first offense, stu­Drug and Alcohol Education as robbery, assault, and rape. dents get a pre-trial diversion a part of National Collegiate Al­from the attorney's office. They cohol Awareness Week. "S.U.D.S. is mainly a preven­are then sentenced to a certain 
tative task force," Bewley said. number of hours of community

Sgt. James Moon, of the South Bend Police Department and Sara  The S.U.D.S. task force was  "We try to stop things before  service and placed on probation  
Bewley, of the Indiana State Excise Police (left to right) discuss the  created in 1984 and was estab­ they happen since we're con­ 
S.U.D.S. task force and student responsibility in a program yesterday.  lished in South Bend in 1986,  cerned about the public."  see S.U.D.S. I page 4  



--~-----------------~--------------~---­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Fulfillment is ultimate goal of school. .. and life 
An interesting phenomenon develops in the back of everyone's mind at certain times in their life. Many people will not acknowledge the 


validity and importance  Michael Hobbes  
of  this  phenomenon.  Advertising Manager  
Others will dismiss it  
while saying that they  

should not even worry abo-u..,.t.,..it,..._""""'S'""t~ill~.-o~t...-h-e-rs-will ignore it wishing that everything will get better on its own. Unfortunately, the only real way to deal with this phenomenon is to confront it head on. 
For .ten years now, I have worked in many different corporations and organizations. Everywhere I go I see people who have this 
phenomenon in the back of their head. In some people it is very evident; for other people it is very subtle; for a fortunate few it does not cause problems because they have answered the dilemma. Unfortunately, there are just not enough individuals in this world who have arrived at the point where they can say they understand what the phenomenon means and how they should deal with it. 
The phenomenon occurs in individuals when they reach a point where the work they are doing no longer has meaning for them anymore. They slowly come to realize that the activities, involvement, or employment they have maintained for some time now no longer offers the same amount of fulfillment that it used to. As they do the same activities that they have done umpteen times before, they start to under­stand that the fun is no longer present and it has now been replaced with a feeling o automated obligation. The spirit and enthu­siasm which initially got them involved has vanished in lieu of a heartless void feeling. 
Until these people realize that they can never really be free of this feeling unless they face it head on, they will continue to have bouts with this phenomenon called "If only." They say "I only I could get a better job," or "If only I was as motivated as they are, I could then get decent grades." They also say, "If only I could be as committed as she is, I could then get to her position." The point here is that as long as someone compares themselves to someone else or an ideal and does not do anything about it, they are doomed to remain in the same situation they are fretting about. 
When this phenomenon sets in for these people, I recommend a good dose of relaxation and reflection. These people need to relax so that they are not so overcome with negative emotions as a result of this thinking and go into a mild depression. These people concurrently need to reflect so they can determine how they will overcome this perceived problem. If these people are content to be mediocre, then they will never make any progress, but if they commit themselves to achievement they will realize their dreams and goals. There is no simple success formula, but there is a methodology to overcome this phenomenon. Determine what you want. Determine what steps you have to take to accomplish these goals. Take one step at a time. Be committed and patient. Realize that the goals you achieve are not so great as the person you will become!! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News Production 

Jennifer Habrych Kathy Fang 
Alicia Reale Susan Marx 
Sports Systems 
Mike Scrudato Matt Carbone 
Lab Tech Accent 
Macy Hueckel Laurie Sessa 
Viewpoint 
Cheryl Moser 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, October 29, 1992 
FORECAST 
Cool today with highs in the low 50s. Cooler tonight with lows in the middle 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H9  L  
Anchorage  32  27"  
Atlanta  77  55  
Bogota  64  48  
Boston  63  46  
Cairo  88  70  
~hicago  57  49  
'Cleveland  59  44  
Dallas  89  67  
Detroit  57  44  
Indianapolis  65  50  
Jerusalem  79  59  
London  54  43  
Los Angeles  73  66  
Madrid  73  48  
Minneapolis  57  36  
Moscow  25  23  
Nashville  77  57  
New York  63  47  
Paris  54  28  
Philadelphia  67  47  
Rome  70  52  
Seattle  57  40  
South Bend  59  49  
Tokyo  68  64  
Washington, D.C.  68  49  




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Customs censors Madonna's "Sex" 
• TOKYO-Japanese customs officials ruled today that Madonna's pictorial book "Sex" violates obscenity stan­dards and cannot be imported unless some of its nude photographs are retouched. It was not immediately clear how the decision would affect plans for the upcoming Japanese edition of the book. About 30 copies of the U.S.­published book, in which the pop star acts out and writes about her sexual fantasies, have been confiscated by cus­toms since it went on sale in the United States and Europe last week. Customs officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the books will not be allowed into Japan unless four areas are retouched. They refused to elabo­rate. Under Japan's unwritten obscenity standards, vir­tually anything is allowed, including poses that imply a link between violence and sex, as long as genitals or pu­bic hair are not shown. 
NATIONAL 
Witches trl,to dispel stereotypes 
• STARKS, aine-Fred Griffith thought it was just another college blind date, but his companion turned out to be a witch. Now, 15 years later, so is he. Unlike the stereotypical image of a wart-nosed hag, witches such as Griffith, a state employee, don't stand out in a crowd. They work regular jobs and lead what most would con­sider normal lives -except during a full moon. "We're trying to get rid of the stereotypes," said Leigh Griffith, 37, who married Fred and taught him "wicca"-there-


OF INTEREST 
•Notre 
Dame Accounting Association presents KPMG Peat Marwick, tonight at 7 p.m. in room 222 Hayes-Healy Center. The presentation topic is "The Second Interview." All accounting majors are welcome. 

•Cavanaugh 
Hall Play Auditions Cavanaugh Hall Players will hold open auditions for female roles for the play, "The Foreigner," by Larry Shu e. Tryouts will be held from 7 to 9 p.m. tonight in the Cavanaugh Hall basement. No experience needed. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 28 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 247,829,540 +0. 90 to 230.91 S&P COMPOSITE +1.64 to 420.13 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS + 15.67 to 3,251.40

UNCHANGED 613 

GOLD 
+$2.10 to $340.10 oz 
SILVER 
+$.018 to $3.770 oz 


ligion of witches. As for other stereotypes: The Griffiths aren't devil worshipers, they don't wear pointed hats and they don't own black cats. Wicca, patterned on early pa­gan religions, is founded on a reverence for the Earth and its inhabitants. 
Court: Topeka schools still segregated 
• DENVER -A federal appeals court has reaffirmed its 1989 decision that racial segregation still exists in Topeka, Kan., schools, which were the focus of the 1954 
U.S. Supreme Court ruling requiring school integration nationwide. In March the Supreme Court ordered the lOth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals to review whether its 1989 ruling was consistent with two recent high court rulings that schools must prove racial imbalance didn't result from the days when segregation was law. The appeals court ordered a lower federal court to devise a way to make the schools more integrated. The appeals court said the lower court erred in concluding the Topeka school district had done what it could to comply with the Supreme Court's 1954 ruling in Brown vs. the Board of Education of Topeka. 


INDIANA 

First wrl born in eight generations 
• 
POR AGE, Ind.-Sara Lynette Kobitz is just 2 days old, but she's already made inroads into a male-domi­nated area. She's the first girl born to the Kobitz family in at least eight generations. "I deal with a lot of birth and death statistics and have never seen this happen. Waiting four or five generations is rare," said Jerry McKibben, a demographer for the Indiana University School of Busi­ness in Indianapolis. 

•Employment 
Opportunities with the Federal Re­serve Bank of Chicago, todll¥ from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. at Haggar College Center room 303. All juniors and seniors are invited to meet with a representative of this organization to discuss summer internship and full­time work opportunities. 

•special 
Programs Fair for Arts & Letters students will be held tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in room 114 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
1919: Federal troops took over control of Gary, Ind., after rioting by striking steel workers swept the city. 

• 
1927: Russian archaeologist Peter Kozloff uncovered the tomb of Genghis Khan in the Gobi Desert. 

• 
1940: The first number was drawn in the first peacetime military draft in U.S. history. 

• 
1974: Muhammad Ali regained his world heavyweight round by knocking out George Foreman in the eighth round of their match in Zaire. 

• 
1982: Socialist Party leader Felipe Gonzalez was elected prime minister of Spain. 

• 
1983: An estimated 500,000 people rallied in the Dutch city The Hague to protest the deployment of American­made cruise missiles in Europe. 



Thursday, October 29, 1992 The Observer page 3 




Mock presidential debate an attempt to inform SMC students 

ATTENTION STUDENTS! 
CO:ME AND SUPPORT THE IRISH BY GETTING YOUR BASKETBALL SEASON TICKETS NEXT WEEK!! 

STuDENT DISTRffiUTION IS November 2-5 9AM-6 PM JACC Gate 10 Ticket Office 11 games for only $44.00 for both lower arena and bleachers 


All student seats in the east endzone by the Notre Dame bench (Sections 13, 14, 15 & 16) 
The games included in the student season are: Nov. 23 --USA Vercich Nov. 30 --Australian Nationals Dec. 6 --Evansville Dec. 8 --Indiana Jan. 23 --LaSalle Feb. 2 --St. Bonaventure Feb.6 --Duke Feb. 13 --Kentucky Feb 17 --Marquette Feb. 25 --Duquesne Mar. 3 --Valparaiso 
By LAURA FERGUSON News Writer 
In an attempt to inform the student body and provide an arena to learn about election is­sues the Saint Mary's College Political Science Club sponsored the 1992 Presidential Mock Debate last night. 
The format consisted of two students representing each candidate and a faculty panel representing various academic departments asking the bulk of the questions. Representing the Republican incumbent candidate George Bush were Katy Howe and Martha Conlin and representing Democratic candidate Bill Clinton were Julie Marsh and Suzanne Staebler. 
Staebler said there was a need for a platform of change for new ideas and solutions to allow the government to grow in the opening comments led by the Clinton team. She also said that the economy was stagnant under Bush. 
Conlin said there have been "mammoth changes under the current administration includ­ing the reunification of Ger­many and the end to the Cold War. Further changes involving the scaling down, streamlining, reform and revitalization of government." 
There was no representing team for the Ross Perot ticket because during the organiza­tional stage of the debate no one volunteered so no Perot voice was established in the re­search. 
A total of 10 questions were presented to the candidates' panels by the faculty panel. Among the most pressing topics were health care, Clinton's lack of military service and views on war, affirmative action programs, and ideas that Clinton would have applied if he had been in Bush's position for the previous presidential term. 
Howe from the Bush team stated that the greatest problem in health care is rising costs and offered possible solutions to the problem. 

"Insurance should be afford­able and care available to ev­eryone. We must find the least costly and most effective treat­ment possible," said Howe: 
The Clinton panel also man­dated insurance reforms and clinics for primary care func­tions. 
"We also believe that preven­tative health care in the form of education is important as well as the need to simplify paper­work. Also there should be no coverage for unnecessary surgery," said Staebler. 
In the area of military, both panels agreed that the U.S. mil­itary must maintain superiority among the world. 
Howe from the Bush panel claimed that Bush was a strong, dedicated military leader while Clinton's representatives defended his lack of military experience. 
"Clinton did not feel that the Vietnam War needed to be fought to hold the United States together so he did not partici­pate," said Marsh. "However, world partnership is funda­mental for global crises. He also believes that international sanctions should be used and he supports nuclear deterrent." 
Concerning the question of affirmative action programs both panels were in favor of advances. 
"Bush feels that quotas are a hindrance and the government needs to promote advancement so that all may share in the American dream and break the cycle of poverty," said Howe. 
Staebler said that Clinton also is in favor of affirmative action programs and that the job market should mirror the pop­ulation. She said Clinton also supports Title Nine, which pro­hibits sexual discrimination and the Equal Right Amendment. 
In response to the inquiry of what Clinton would have done if put in the position of Bush, Staebler stated that Clinton would not have waited as long before acting on the economy. 
"If elected, Clinton would make reduction of the deficit the first priority via spending cuts." 
Conlin responded that Clin­ton's figures for the economy don't add up. She said that Bush purposed streamlining already but the answer lies in less bureaucracy and the need to cut government waste. 
In conclusion for the Clinton panel, Marsh stated that Bush is out of ideas. "It is now time to put the people first, strive to develop industry, tap our own resources, and protect the right of women to choose. 
Conlin closed by saying that the nation is not in a recession this quarter and accused Clin­ton of taking any side of an is­sue for support. Among her closing ideas were a litany of less than impressive statistics concerning Arkansas including low state ranking in adult illit­eracy. 
Due to the informative only nature of the debate no winner was announced. 
CARROLL HALL 



HAUNTED HOU~B 
Saturday, October 31 
HALLOWEEN 
rs open at 8:00rM Arrive early to ensure entry 
Admission $200 

Endorsed by the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education 


ATTENTION JUNIORS: 
• Would your parents like to stay at the Morris Inn during JPW? 
• Stop by the Junior Class Office in LaFortune to enter the lottery 
TODAY or TOMORROW from 3..5 p.m. 
By HEIDI DECKELMANN News Writer 
President Bush's com­mencement address given last spring at the University of Notre Dame was ceremonial in form but political in message, according to Carla Johnson and John Pauley professors of Communications at Saint Mary's College. 
Pauley and Johnson followed a presentation of Bush's ad­dress with a critique of the po­litical language and messages contained in the speech in a format that was similar to an earlier presentation on Gov. Bill Clinton's address given at the political rally earlier in the semester. 
"The theme of Bush's com­mencement address, family values, later became one the of the Republican campaign themes the speech would then be considered political," said Johnson. 
Pauley said, "Bush blended a policy statement on the limits of the American Government with a charge to the graduates." 
The presentation was, "Informative, unbiased, and helped me view political speeches more effectively by ignoring candidates persuasive abilities, "said Saint Mary's Se­nior, Val Klassen. 
The presentation was cosponsored by the Department of Communications, Dance, and Theatre and The Popular Culture Group. 

Professors: Bush's ND address ceremonial with political message 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, October 29, 1992 


S.U.D.S. 
continued from page 1 
for six months to a year. Second and subsequent offenses warrant a court appearance and are punishable up to 60 days and $500, Moon added. 
In the case of public intoxica­tion, Moon explained that an officer can make a charge based on his own judgment of the student's behavior, regard­less of whether they give a breathalyzer or not. 
Students do not have the right to demand a breathalyzer test to prove their sobriety. It is de­cided in court if a conviction will result from the officer's charge of public intoxication. 
Excise police officers enforce the laws concerning alcoholic beverages, according to Bewley. They enter bars dressed in civilian clothes when they sus­pect there are minors in the bar. Students are required by Indiana law to show proof of their identity to these officers. 
There are approximately 56 excise police in Indiana, with four or five in each county. They travel to certain districts in response to complaints and observations of underage drinking, Bewley said. 
In regards to off-campus parties, Bewley emphasized the serious liability of hosts: "Social hosts have the same respon­sibility as professional hosts," she said. They must therefore use common sense when un­derage people wish to attend their parties, for they will be held liable for furnishing alco­hol to minors. 
Finally, according to Moon, police officers have the right to search houses and apartments that they raid if they suspect minors are present. Confis­cated kegs are returned to liquor stores, with refunds go­ing to local or state alcohol pro­grams. 
Debate 
continued from page 1 

egating public schools to a sec­ondary form of education ... You cannot reform public schools without money." 
Boyle responded, "You don't throw money at a prob­lem ... (what is needed) is teach­ers and students who are will­ing to learn. You say 'what's going to happen to public schools?' Of course they're go­ing to close down because they stink." 
•Family 
values: Holmgren questioned Bush's veto of the Family Leave Bill, calling it con­tradictory to the president's "family values" rhetoric. Boyle said the bill would have put an undue burden on small busi­nesses. 

•Health 
care: Boyle said, "If you ask people in health care which plan they like best. they say the Bush plan." Setti re­sponded that the industry fa­vors the president's plan be­cause it allows them to continue to "gouge" customers. 


Rally 
continued from page 1 

"Hopefully this rally will help motivate students to take more 
interest in the national affairs 
going on around them." Besides planning this rally, the College Democrats have or­
ganized their 300 members to
take part in a campus-wide 
canvas of Clinton material ~r;~t~o~~ four days before the Members will campaign door to door throughout the dorms. 
In addition a group of the Democrats is tentatively headed to Arkansas for a victory party on November 3, pending the 
outcome of the election. 

New CPR guidelines: Call ambulance first 
CHICAGO {AP) -Get to a phone and call an ambulance before you start cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR}, experts say. 
In a reversal, doctors and other experts now recommend that lone rescuers postpone CPR11 on adults until they summon help. 
That's because CPR rarely saves lives unless it is followed quickly by advanced medical treatment, such as defibrillation to jump-start the heart, the experts said in today's Journal of the American Medical Asso­ciation. 
The old recommendation was that a lone rescuer give a heart-attack victim one minute of CPR before calling. 
The change is one of 19 
drafted by the Fifth 

~, 0~ ~·o~~~~~" 
.:c$1 --&0 nII? 
~~-­
..,D

"'bQ}JJ' ance 
"''?1<' 

'?0~~ to DJ 
National Conference on CPR and Emergency Cardiac Care. 
"CPR was taught to lay people in the 1970s with a great deal of enthusiasm that it was going to save a lot of lives," said Dr. John Paraskos, chairman of the conference of 512 professionals in February. "It turns out, it doesn't unless it's backed up by adequate emergency systems and advanced care." 
Paraskos is director of diagnostic cardiology at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in Worcester. 
•The 
North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): Setti said without minimum wage and environmental poli­cies in Mexico comparable to those in the United States, businesses would move south­ward. Boyle answered, "There's no reason why they can't go there right now... " He added that although it might take 10 years, Mexico eventually would raise its standards to U.S. levels without government prodding. 

•Yugoslavia: 
Both sides said their candidate does not favor 


U.S. military action there, but Setti went on, "Waiting an watching while people die is not the way to run a foreign pol­icy...if it comes down to military force, that might need to be used in a limited fashion." . 
Setti said the U.S. should first try diplomacy, though. 
Boyle said, "You have to de­cide whether it's a just war or a war you can win." The war is "terrible," he said, but guerilla warfare and the fact that boundary disputes go back so far would make a war espe­cially harsh. 
•Deficit spending: Boyle said 
-

..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, November 8 3:00 -7:00 p.m. 

A time of silence and reflections focused on biblical texts. 
Place: Fischer Community Center Cost: The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which there will be a $3.00 charge. CAU. BY FRIDAY NOVEMBER 6 TO RESERVE A PlACE. Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Hscher Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 

Bush's tax cuts would increase make Europe and Japan revenue to help reduce the shoulder more of the cost of deficit. Setti said Clinton would their own defense, to reduce the cut 25 percent of the White deficit. House staff, $100 billion in de­fence, cut troops in Europe, and 
ThE CoMeDy OfErRoRs Performed by!': Th N t' } Shak Cj e a lOlla espeare ompanyM d & T don ay ues av. ~ l _ November 2 & 3rrfl\0 ~\ Washington Hall 8:1 0 pm0 Stud t T• k t $7en lC e s Sponsored by The Student Activities Office and Student Union Board Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk 239-8128  


HALLOWEEN fRIGHT-NIGHT AT SMC 'fiilTRSDAY, OCTOBER 29 FROM 6:00-8:30 HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER 
~PUMPKIN CRaviNG, APPLE-13013131 NG, Foon ...'~'(\~·-A.ND :;.:=···'·! ···: ~ SPOO_K.ll S'TOR.'LES O~'V 1Ji:E 1SL-A.ND .J 
BY BOB MYERS OF THE STORY PEDDI,ERS ~ ~ 
Fri &Sat 9:30-2:30 
1 mile east of campus 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r--------------------------------------~------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 29, 1992 The Observer 
page 5 




Symposium important to business students 
By NICK RIOS News Writer 
The up and coming Ethics of Global Sourcing and Technology in the 1990s club is hosting a Speaker Symposium on Friday that every student in business and those planning on studying business should not miss, according to Rich Dyer, one of the club vice presidents. 
The Ethics of Global Sourcing and Technology in the 1990s club was established last year and is under the presidency of Tim Klaus. "Our club is trying to bring in speakers who can give first hand advice about their experience in the business world," said Dyer. 
Dyer added that the speakers making presentations on Friday will be addressing ethical values in business. "One of the most important things our club is trying to get across to busi­ness students is that ethical values cannot be separated from business, and that we must have them in mind in ev· ery decision we make," said Dyer. 
Among the speakers that will attend the Symposium on Fri· day are: 
• 
George Gourlay, senior vice president of Coca-Cola Inc. 

• 
Mark Schmid, vice president of Information Systems, Wal­Mart Inc. 

• 
Gary O'Connor, president & C.E.O., G.E. O'Connor & Com­pany Inc. 

• 
Steven Hronec, director of manufacturing, Arthur Ander­son 


Sure.there are other schools. But whysettle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof beingadmitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score hi!!her! 


1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
5:' STANLEY H. KAPlAN
l Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 

• 
Patrick Tesier, vice presi­dent Engineering, Bendix Auto System, North America 

• 
Kerford Marchant, senior business development consul· tant, Amoco Chemical Co. 


The speakers will address the decision-making process of a company that decides to go into an underdeveloped country, and how the company's action affect the local people. 
Schmid will talk about how he uses information in his com­puter to lower his product's cost and to produce a top-qual­ity product. 
"As students we need to be responsible in the future of turning the knowledge we re· ceive in classroom into smart decisions that will provide for a better tomorrow," Dyer said. "It is time we let the world know tha-t as Notre Dame students we will carry our ethical values into every profession we go in the future." 
ow 
Te~esa is 
211 she's 
~eally 


"b • 
II
t1 ~Jt\ I Jt\9 
So give he~ a call ! 

x5251 t--lappy Bi~thday f~om1 
Blah & t--la~mless 
The Department of Music Presents 





Wi{fiam Cerny 
~acu{ty Piano ~cita{ 
1992 COL'llM'B'llS ']IE..U..pt}(O(j~M: 'M'USTC O:fm'£ ~'E!l(]CM{_:J{'£9t£TSP9f'E.'X,:J. 
Gottschalk. Joplin, Rorem, Villa Lobos, Gershwin, Ginastera 
Sunday, Nov. 1, 1992 2:00p.m. 
Annen berg Auditorium, The Snite Musuem of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
Ill 
:1: 
1­




H~y Seniors 
Start your Halloween weekend off right 
FRIDAY LUNCH 12~ 2 
Hlft.cMFn-11.( J,t;fJII.dforH.Ip. &tt fh. oNy -·'"-w. ­


American Red Cross + 1:1!1 

NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB Fa II Concert 
Tonight 8:15 

Washington Hall 

Free Admission Limited Seating 

page 6 The Observer 
Thursday, October 29, 1992 



French doctor in AIDS Yeltsin goes on the offensive 
scandal is jailed in Paris 
MOSCOW (AP) -President 
Boris Yeltsin went on the of­
fensive Wednesday against his 
hard-line political foes, banning 
a new right-wing group and 
ordering an opposition-con­
trolled security force dis­
banded. 

The one-two punch seemed designed to keep the hard-lin­ers off Russia's political cen­terstage, which Yeltsin is trying to hold as the economy slides further into crisis and his re­forms more into doubt. 
Yeltsin took the step after hard-line lawmakers rebuffed his request to delay the next parliament session and after weeks of criticism from many sides, including Mikhail Gor­bachev, the former Soviet president who is still unpopular at home but whose words carry weight abroad. 
The ban hit the members of the parliament -the base of Yeltsin's opposition -who are determined to curb his powers and slow economic reforms during a session of the Congress of People's Deputies set to start Dec. 1. 
Russian and former Soviet lawmakers, including Sergei 

Boris Yeltsin 

Baburin and retired Gen. Albert Makashov, led about 3,000 people on Saturday in creating a "National Salvation Front" to oust Yeltsin and restore the former union. 
The grouping of Russian na­tionalists and Communists ac­cused Yeltsin of destroying the national economy and polluting Russia's moral and social tradi­tions. 
The group, while appearing well-organized, was comprised mostly of right-wing critics still believed to have limited influ­ence. It did not include any members of Civic Union, an in­fluential centrist bloc courted by Yeltsin. 
Yeltsin said in a speech on Tuesday he would outlaw the Front. taking the harsh step for, the first time since banning and dissolving the ruling Soviet Commm;J.ist Party after the abortive 1991 coup. 
The president said the group posed a "great danger" for Russia and made good on the threat on Wednesday. signing a decree ordering authorities to prevent all activities by the "anti-constitutional" group or any other "extremist" organi­zations, said spokesman Vy­acheslav Kostikov. 
Alexander Prokhanov, one of the Front's leaders, had dis­missed Yeltsin's warning on Tuesday as "political gangster­ism, lunacy and idiocy." 
Yeltsin also chose Wednesday to order the disbanding of the special 5,000-member police force controlled by legislative speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov, a powerful opponent of Yeltsin's government. 
But the force's commander, Security Department chief Ivan Boiko, rejected Yeltsin's order and said he only would recog­nize commands from Khasbu­latov or the legislative leader­ship, the Interfax news agency reported. 

PARIS (AP) -The former di­rector of France's blood bank, who returned Wednesday to be jailed for his part in an AIDS scandal, denied responsibility for poisoning of hundreds of hemophiliacs with AIDS-tainted blood. 
Dr. Michel Garretta was whisked away by police from Charles de Gaulle Airport after arriving from Boston, where he had worked for a medical equipment firm, to face a four­year prison sentence. 
He was taken under escort to La Sante prison in southern Paris. 
Garretta told the Agence France Presse (AFP) news agency on his flight home that he "absolutely refuses to as­sume the collective responsibil­ity for contaminating hemophil­iacs, which is a rumor and a lie." 
This echoed the complaints of AIDS activists and the families of hemophiliacs, who consider Garretta a scapegoat and say top government officials were responsible. 
While Syrians talk peace in D.C., hatred is at home 
DAMASCUS, Syria (AP) -The Syrians may be participating in Arab-Israeli peace talks in Washington, but there are many who are shedding no tears over Israelis killed this week by Arab guerrillas. 
"I teach my children that Is­rael is the enemy," said Mo­hammed Aziz Shukri, dean of Damascus University's law school and an expert on inter­national law. 
"Israel has an expansionist appetite. It is well-documented that they consider Eretz Israel, the biblical land of the Jews, extends from the Nile to the Euphrates." 
That comment from one of Syria's most distinguished and learned citizens epitomizes the feelings of most of his 12.5 mil­lion countrymen, who have been Israel's most implacable foes for 44 years. 
For them, the recent attacks on Israel's self-designated "security zone" in south Le­banon, a border strip held in one form or another by the Is­raelis since 1978, are acts of legitimate resistance by the Le­banese against an occupying power. 
So are attacks by Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, captured by Israel in the 1967 war. 
A senior Syrian official said it is "the inalienable right of an occupied people to resist those who occupy their land." 
~, 0~ 

~· 6~~~"\"\ $1
.~aJ ~0 n"? ~~"o•.,. 

,<,~~~ Coupon 
~ 


Gf(for any item) 
(expires 1111/92) 

•present coupon at door 
1 mile east of campus 

Garretta, head of the National Center for Blood Transfusions in 1985 when the infected blood was supplied to hemophiliacs, said he returned to France to face justice. 
"I wasn't running away, I never thought of avoiding the judicial system of my country," Garretta told AFP. "I feel at the same time deep injustice and total disgust." 
Before leaving Boston, Gar­retta said told reporters that the tragedy was the "collective fault of the system." 
"The decisions I made were always in the open and were always made with other peo­ple," he said. "To pick out one single person, or four people as in the trial, when there were dozens, even hundreds in­volved, flies in the face of jus­tice." 
Garretta was one of four former health officials tried for allowing the transfusions with contaminated blood to take place. Some 1,200 hemophiliacs were infected with HIV. 



At TIAA-CREF, our goal has always years ofrese~rch, market analysis and fibeen to make your retirement dollars cultivation ofregional contacts have given go farther. Now, they can go as far as us special insight into the risks and rewards London, Frankfurt or Tokyo-or anywhere oftoday's global marketplace. else in the world where fmancial oppor­
DISCOVER MORE ABOUT OUR tunities seem promising-with our new NEW GLOBAL EQUITIES ACCOUNT. 
CREF Global Equities Account. 
The CREF Global Equities Account is 
THE CREF GLOBAL EQUITIES offered through your TIAA-CREF retire­ACCOUNT EXPANDS THE HORIZON 
ment annuities, subject to the provisions of
FOR RETIREMENT SAVINGS. 
your employer's retirement plan. It is auto­The CREF Global Equities Account is 
matically available for TIAA-CREF Supple­an actively-managed portfolio of both 
mental Retirement Annuities (SRAs). foreign and domestic stocks selected for 
To fmd out more about the CREF diversity and growth potential. As part of 
Global Equities Account or TIAA-CREF's a wide range ofannuity and investment 
other annuity and investment alternatives, alternatives already offered by TIAA-CREF, 
send for our free brochure. Or call it can increase your ability to create a more 
I 800-842-2776. balanced, well-rounded retirement plan. 
You'll fmd that at TIAA-CREF. our While returns may vary over time, the 
world revolves around helping you build a CREF Global Equities Account is based 
secure and rewarding future. on CREF's already-existing strength and the long-term approach to investing ,---------------­that has made TIAA-CREF America's 
SENI)FOR ..... preeminent pension organization. 
Tbe CREF Global Equitw Account-

OURFREEBOOKLET .:-.~:;
A World ofOpportunity and learn more about this exciting new CREF Account. 
WHEN IT COMES TO 

FOREIGN INVESTING, WE'RE 
Mail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, 

ON FAMILIAR GROUND. 
Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, New York, We've been speaking the language of NY 10017. Or calli 800-842-2776. • 
foreign investing for nearly twenty years. 
Namt (Please print)

That's when we pioneered investing pension funds on an international level. All those Addru.r 
City Stat~ 


ln.rlilulion (Full name)

Ensuring the future for those who shape it!M 
TIAA-CREF Participant Ifyu, Social Suurily # Dl'<.r DNv CREF certif1cates are distributed by TIAA·CREF lndividua and Institutional Services. For more complete information. including charges and expenses. calli 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 

Thursday, OCtober 29, 1992 The Observer page 7 



Is the economy recovering or not? 
NEW YORK (AP) -One day the government says the econ­omy is robust again because consumer spending has im­proved. The next day it says consumer spending actually isn't so strong. 
Is the economy recovering or not? 
Taken together, the numbers reported Tuesday and Wednesday, like the jumble of other government statistics on the economy, are open to just about any spin that economists or politicians wish to put on them. 
President Bush's re-election campaign called the report of a 
2.7 percent growth rate in the third quarter, which was double the expected pace, "very good news" and said it proves his economic stewardship hasn't been so bad after all. 
"We have now had six straight quarters of growth in the United States," Bush said in a Tuesday speech. "And yet the Democrats keep telling us that everything is going to hell, and they're wrong." 
Strategists for Bill Clinton countered that the economy is recovering at less than one­third the pace of any other postwar recovery, and that the third-quarter performance is not likely to be repeated soon. 
Indeed, Bush's presidency can claim average annual growth of 
Sunday·s Rre For Students 
.Marriott 
Lounge Downtown South Bend 
Free Food Bp.m.-10p.m. 

Specials Bp.m.-12 
Come with your friends to watch Sunday night football, enjoy FREE food, great specials and Rwesome Halftime Baffles\11111 
~ 

TI-lE POI~TE 
,._------~_..... -~--~-­
AT SAINT JOSEPH 


1'or yraduate Students and 1' acu{ty 
We afso fiave furnisliea ezy_cutive suites 
Office 9-{ours: Montfay-J'riday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 

307 La.Saf{e .9lvenue, Soutli 13ent{, Indiana 46617 (219) 28 7-2684 
only 0.8 percent. Growth has been consistent, but slow. 
At the root of the third-quar­ter economic pickup was an in­crease in consumer spending of 
3.4 percent in the third quarter and 0. 7 percent in September. That's up from a drop of 0.1 percent in the second quarter. Personal income rose 0. 7 percent in September. Those numbers look strong. But private economists say. look at the fine print. 
The nation's savings rate fell to 4.5 percent of disposable in­come from 5.3 percent in the second quarter. That means whatever increase in spending there was came out of people's savings, and not because they're necessarily making more money. 
"That can't go on forever," said Marcos Jones, an economist at Deutsche Bank Capital Corp. 
The rise in personal income was skewed to the plus side by one-time increases in govern­ment spending to aid the vic­tims of Hurricane Andrew, in­creased farm aid, and a 6.9 percent increase in military spending that reversed a five­quarter decline. 
Excluding the effects of the hurricane and farm subsidies, personal income rose 0.1 per­cent, after falling 0.6 percent in August. 

Another significant contribu­tor to the third-quarter growth was a surge in business inven­tories -more goods piling up. That is potentially bad news. 
"Unless demand revives promptly, there will be some production cutbacks necessary, which will mean either fewer hours worked or fewer people working," Jones said. 
In another confusing sign, orders to factories for durable goods fell a seasonally adjusted 
0.4 percent in September, the government reported Wednes­day. 
For the economy to turn de­cisively positive, consumers must feel confident that their incomes will grow or at least not fall, and they have to start buying, most economists agree. 
The same day the Bush ad­ministration was hailing the third-quarter increase in eco­nomic growth, a widely fol­lowed measurement of con­sumer confidence in the econ­omy showed a big drop in Oc­tober, the fourth straight monthly decline. 
"Clearly, if there is a pickup in the economy, it's not affecting consumers so far," said Fabian Linden, the Board's head of consumer research. 
New claims for state unem­ployment insurance have fallen for three consecutive weeks. 




Report: Durable goods orders fall for the third consecutive month 


WANTED 
. /Ill 

...,.,z
~~~~.J. 

HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN? 
Ifyou have, then inform your friends to beware ofhis vicious comedy! Report to Washington Hall on Friday, November 6th at 8 p.m. to find out for yourself just how dangerous his wit is. 
(Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information desk for $3) 

Brian Banigan a Stanford junior and Jessica Lovejoy a PW junior (left to right) participate in a foul shooting contest in recognition of Alcohol and Drug Awareness Week. The events were sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and RecSports. 
"Our economy is doing better than the world economy," Bush said on ABC's "Good Morning America." He cited a Tuesday report showing a 2. 7 percent third quarter growth rate in the gross domestic product. 
But Clinton countered on NBC's "Today" show that the GDP report amounted to a one­time blip and said, "You can't evaluate anyone on one three­month performance." 
Although much of the durable drop was concentrated in the volatile aircraft and defense industries, economists said it illustrated the stop-and-go nature of the economy's long climb out of recession . 
They were especially con­cerned that the backlog of un­filled orders for durable goods fell 1.3 percent, the 13th con­secutive monthly decline, to $452.6 billion, the lowest level since December 1988. 
That's a sign that factories are easily keeping up with the flow of new orders with their current workforce, they said. 
"Since last summer, what's been going out the door in shipments is more than what's been coming in the door in new orders," said economist David Munro of High Frequency Eco­nomics, a New York consulting firm. 
1 mile east of compus 


WASHINGTON (AP) -Orders to U.S. factories for durable goods such as cars and computers fell in September for the third consecutive month, the government said Wednes­day in a report taken as an ill omen for manufacturing em­ployment. 
The Commerce Department said orders fell a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent to $118.9 billion last month. It was the first time orders had dropped three months in a row since January-March 1991, during the depths of the recession, and it was the fourth decline in five months. 
In two other reports, the government said Americans' personal income rebounded in September from the effects of Hurricane Andrew and the fed­eral budget deficit set a new record during the fiscal year ended Sept. 30. 
The latest statistics came as President Bush and Bill Clinton clashed over the economy in separate television appearances just six days before Election Day. 
page 8 The Observer Thursday, October 29, 1992 

On mischief night, city braces itself for annual arson spree 
CAMDEN, N.J. (AP) -Bessie 
Trader has a personal stake in 
the city-wide drive to prevent 
another pre-Halloween arson 
spree. 
After helplessly watching one 
of last year's 133 fires spread to 
her home, she repaired it and 
moved back in this spring. On 
Friday night, her home will be 
one of those watched over by a 
volunteer neighborhood patrol. 
"I hope I don't have to go 
through it again," Trader said 
as she stood outside her home 
of nearly 30 years. 
Using 600 volunteers, along with extra police and firefight­ers, the city hopes to thwart vandals from torching buildings on the night before Halloween. 
The annual tradition is known 
as "Mischief Night." 
Once an occasion for tossing eggs and soaping windows, Oct. 30 has in recent years become a time to set fires in this economically depressed city of 87,000 residents, across the Delaware River from Philadel­phia. 
Berkeley campus crooner s1nger wins in court 
BERKELEY, Calif. (AP) -A campus crooner had something to sing about Wednesday after a judge dismissed charges that his alfresco concerts were a breach of the peace. 
"This is great," Rick Starr said after the hearing in Berkeley Municipal Court. "We're aiming for the Fair­mont," he said of the swanky hotel and lounge on San Fran­cisco's Nob Hill. 
Starr, 46, was in court to face a charge of disturbing the peace. 
Thomas Ventresco, adminis­trator at the University of Cali­fornia at Berkeley, filed a com­plaint that Starr's serenades were striking a sour note. The stress of working 50 yards from Starr's off-key concerts "is causing me to lose sleep at night," he said. 
Starr, who contended he was protected by the First Amend­ment, faced a possible sentence of 90 days or a $400 fine. 
After prosecutors declined to take the case I, Judge Julie Conger dismissed the charge and Starr was free to go. 
He didn't waste time, treating a news conference to "I Will Wait for You," from the movie "Umbrellas of Cherbourg." 
Still, Ventresco will have to do without Starr's vocal offerings because he won't be returning to his post on a university plaza. 
"He's been kicked upstairs as far as we're concerned," said Flora Elstein, who describes herself as Starr's publicist­mother. 
In 1990, vandals set 30 fires 36,000 volunteers to watch and police made 81 arrests. vacant buildings on what is Last year's outbreak proved known there as "Devil's Night," much worse. and the number of arson fires 
"We were caught off guard," fell 44 percent. admitted police Sgt. Gilbert Wil­Camden officials visited De­son. "But we learned our les­troit after the outbreaks to son." learn how to implement similar 
The mayor declared a state of preventive measures this year. emergency as the overwhelmed Mayor Aaron Thompson said fire department struggled to dousing the fires is crucial in extinguish the fires last year. revitalization of Camden, one of Police arrested about 60 people, the nation's poorest cities. including 42 juveniles. "This city is struggling to stay 
"It was terrible what hap­alive," he told about 100 pened last year," said commu­volunteers at an orientation nity volunteer Roberto Vaden, meeting Tuesday. 
57. "I don't want to see that "We have to show the world happen again." we're in control of our destiny." The key to this year's effort, 
The goal is modest: Reduce officials say, is the community­the number of fires by 25 per­based volunteer program. "The cent. Camden has established people of Camden are going to an anti-arson task force and take back their city," pledged moved up a curfew for those the Rev. Wilfredo Rivera, task under age 18 to 6 p.m. from 11 force co-chairman. 
p.m. The city has also appealed On Friday, volunteers using to businesses to close early. flashlights and radios will pa­
The program is modeled after trol on foot. Cab drivers and a neighborhood program in guards at a state prison in the Detroit. Last year, Detroit used city have joined in. 
Indian~ shopping malls gear up for 'Malloween' 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) ­Shopping malls statewide are gearing up for "Malloween" as more wary parents are skipping the neighborhoods and taking their little ghosts and goblins to the mall for Halloween trick -or-treating. 
It's a trend that's growing in popularity nationwide. 
"Parents are scared of sending their kids out on the street," said Keith Foxe, a spokesman for the Interna­tional Council of Shopping Centers. "They feel safer going to the mall where there is an organized program." 
Four-thousand children from Indiana, Illinois and Kentucky are expected at Eastland Mall in Evansville on Saturday for Halloween fun. 
All 150 stores will have candy for the children and other special events between 4 
p.m. and 1 p.m., said spokeswoman Amy Petitjean. 
"We assume the parents would rather have their children roaming around the mall than roaming the city's streets," Petitjean added. 
At Southtown Mall in Fort Wayne, the largest in the state with 177 stores, 3,000 trick­or-treaters are expected for candy, games and a costume contest. 
"Halloween isn't quite what it used to be," said spokeswoman Shelly Greenwald, "and we're trying to keep everybody occupied until all they have to do is go home and go to sleep." 
The fun at Southtown begins at 5 p.m. and continues through 9 o'clock, just as it has for several years, Greenwald said. 
In Indianapolis, Castleton Square Mall has stocked up on 200,000 pieces of candy, spokesman Kurt Ashburn said. 
"We bought extra candy this year so we don't run out," he said. 
Jan Evras, a spokeswoman for Washington Square Mall in Evansville, said the 2,000 or so children expected there Saturday won't create a boost in sales for the merchants. 

The Investment Banking Division of 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
cordially invites University of Notre Dame undergraduates of all majors to attend an information session on the 
Financial Analyst Program 
Goldman Sachs' Financial Analyst Program offers exposure to a broad range of industries and transactions, a high level of responsibility and client interaction in a collegial work environment. No other investment bank promotes the same degree of teamwork that has become one of the hallmarks of Goldman Sachs' success. 
Goldman Sachs is committed to hiring undergraduates with outstanding achievements from all majors, including Arts and Letters, Engineering and Sciences, to join the analyst class for 1993. 
Information Session on October 29 at 7:00p.m. The Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center 



1 mile east of campus Thursday, October 29, 1992 

The Observer page 9 

ELECTION '92 
ELECTION BRIEFS 
Paper won't endorse Clinton 
•LITTLE ROCK, Ark.-The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, the state's largest newspaper, said today it could not recommend Gov. J;lill Clinton and maintained its tradition of not endorsing presidential candidates. The Democrat-Gazette said in a "non•endorsement" editorial that President Bush has run an unim­pressive campaign and be:en ;•less than successful" in domestic policy but deservf'!s credit for his foreign policy. It e8.1led independent Ross Perot a "strange man." The newspap~r said that with a son of Arkansas headilig the Democratic ticket this might seem a good year to break with its tradition of staying away from presidential endorsements. But the paper, which has long been a persistent critic of Clinton, said that it couldn't recommend the Arkansas 
governor. 
Supporters cast protest vote 
•WASHINGTON-John Van Nuys says the controversy surrounding Ross Perot's charges of Republican dirty tricks won't upset his plans to cast a protest vote for the Texas businessman in Tuesday's presidential election. Perot's conduct may raise questions about his temperament to be president, but that's irrelevant because "I don't think he is going to make it anyway," says the 53-year-old New Jersey health inspector. Van Nuys, who attended Perot's rally last weekend near Flemington, N.J., is hoping that a strong vote for Perot "convinces some people to wake up a little bit" and face the nation's economic problems. After Perot's unsubstantiated allegations this week of a Republican smear campaign, most of these people said their opinions ofthe Texan had not changed. 
State parties injected millions to 1992 election 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­publican and Democratic parties at the state level have quietly injected at least $35 million of their own money in a massive effort to mobilize and influence voters before Election Day, an Associated Press review of the 50 states has found. 
In at least 14 states, local parties also have provided an­other avenue for "soft-money" donations from unions and corporations, which are banned from directly contributing to federal campaigns, the AP found. 
The state parties will likely spend millions more in this final week before Election Day, carrying about half the financial burden for a campaign that many people have assumed is the sole work of the national parties and the presidential campaigns. 
The effort includes bankrolling get-out-the-vote drives, phone banks, generic ads, mass mailings and slate cards designed to influence voters to vote for the party's entire ticket, from the White House and Congress to the statehouse and city council. 
Democrats get reservations in D.C. for Inauguration Day 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Republicans are talking upset but it's the Democrats who are reserving the hotel suites along 16th Street and down Pennsyl­vania Avenue for Inauguration Day. 
"There's a lot more requests from Democrats," said Hotel Washington's Debbie Cochran, recalling four years ago when George Bush, and not Michael Dukakis, would lead the Jan. 20 inauguration parade. 
She said Democratic backers of Bill Clinton are booking 50­room blocks at the hotel, located on the parade route, despite the advance, non-refundable payments. "They're the ones who are like gangbusters, getting their money in. They think they're going to win." 
But hoteliers said Republicans and Ross Perot supporters are also undeterred by top rates, four-night-stay minimums and up-front payments. Many hotels are deferring payments until after Nov. 3, when supporters of two candidates will realize that Washington in January is not where they want to be. 
Voters seem to be shifting their party allegiances 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Michigan county famous for its disillusioned blue-collar Democrats has helped put Republicans in the White House three times. But the fabled "Reagan Democrats" of Macomb County are among the many voter groups that appear to be shifting allegiances this year. 
From young people and independents to the upper-income Americans whose taxes he vows to raise, Democrat Bill Clinton is leading the field among groups his party lost or split in recent elections. 
President Bush, who won the White House 54-46 percent over Democrat Michael Dukakis in 1988, is still favored among white Protestants and Southern white males. But the rest of the GOP coalition that's dominated White House elections since 1980 is more fragmented. 
The lackluster economy is the primary thing working against Bush this year. There are other factors aggravating his difficulties: Clinton's Southern background, economic fo­cus and carefully crafted moderate image, and maverick Ross Perot's appeal to men and independents. 
Bush's poll showings have been mired in the 30s for weeks, reflecting dissatisfaction among a variety of voting groups -women, young voters, independents, working-class ethnics, upper-income Americans and even Republicans. 
"Four years ago the economy was a big magnet pulling all these voters toward the Republican Party," said Larry Hugick, managing editor of the Gallup Poll. Many of them feel closer to the Democrats on social issues, he said. 

Campus View Apartments 
We Are Now Accepting Applications Far Next Year 
• 

•1 & 2 Bedroom Furnished Apartments • Indoor Swimming Pooi•Jacuzzi • Tennis, Volleyball & Basketball Courts• •24 Hour Laundry • Shuttle Bus• •On Site, Experienced Professional Management• •Relaxed, Secure Environment• 

Apartments Call Now available for more for your information selection. 272-1441 

-------------~--~-~ -~----~-~-. ----------~----~--~-------~---..,.------------, 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, October 29, 1992 
The Observer 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ..••....•......... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reference to 
the article by the Siegfried 
Slammers football team (The 
Observer, Oct. 13, 1992). 
First, they begin, "the out­
come of the game was deter­. mined not by the players and their abilities but instead by the referees." Well, I am sorry that 
they feel that way, but I know of 
at least 25 women on our team 
that feel otherwise. 
Yes, the referees have a cer­
tain amount of (or lack of) con­
trol over what goes on out on 
the field, but it still remains the 
players that determine the out­
come of the game. 
On their second point, I totally 
agree with them. It is very hard 
to find people to referee these 
games reliably and with com­
plete knowledge of the"\-ules. 
After one of our games, I re­
quested that the referees be 
required to watch the rules 
video tape again (a refresher 
course, if you· will) because we 
felt that they did not know even 
the basic of rules. 
We too, have been hit by "bad 
officiating." In one of our victo­
ries, we were outpenalized nine 
to two. But the point is, we 
overcame, and we came away 
with the win regardless. 
But now I ·guess I should 
move on to the point upon 
which they are entirely wrong. 
To be honest, as I write this 
letter I really don't even re-
Farley responds to Siegfried 
T h u r s d a y 's V e r s e 
Standing on the edge of the precipice looking into the abyss down below gazing into the decisions he must face, ofwhat to do or where to go, he does not know 
Taking a step back, brething a sigh, staring again, wanting to meet the Creator, to figure out the questions, to ask; why, he must stand before the bottomless crater. 
The answers seem far away, much to far to see unless the help we seek comes from above, It is better off to be confused a!' we seek to understand the thing that is life, is love. 
Money and power may try to till the void inside, peace and justice may be what we seek, but unless we try to get it high, we ain't gonna be nothing but weak. 
To climb the highest mountain, to overcome the lost, we must find out that it was only but hilled, running from hide to hide, traveling ghosts, to the soul ofholy which needs be tilled. 
By John Rock 

hAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished poem to: 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. BoxQ 
ND, IN 46556 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5/JR/3, H& 
'A few are riding. The rest
W&NTNf6ATI~, BUTUXJI<. 
have been run over.'
IRAQI FrJUTIC5 Af!£ROU6H. OlfJN'TAPPROVE, 
Henry David Thoreau 
8/JTH&Y. ...._____ 

member all of the "it was this down" or how many plays were run. But what I do remember is what they call a third time-out. 
One of the Farley coaches had asked the referee "How much time?", which he interpreted as "Time!" The funny thing was that when the head ref signalled time-out, he even signalled that the Siegfried team had called it. 
Needless to say, we were all shocked that Siegfried coaches would call a time-out, and so we did not "look a gift horse in the mouth." 
The ref eree then informed us thatwe still had one time-out remaining, which we later used to set up our fourth down play. 
So now it was fourth and six, but the coach's protest brought about an unsportsmanlike penalty. There is not too much I can say here, except that obviously in the mind of referees, the Siegfried coach stepped out of line with his argument. 
The Siegfried Slammers also wanted it to be "noted that the Farley coach was being just as vocal as our coach, as well as being verbally abusive to the Siegfried sideline. Perhaps this went unnoticed by the referees 
because  of  their  close  
connection with  one  of the  
Farley coaches."  

Yes, I will admit it ... I was being vocal. Getting caught up in the last seconds of the game can get anyone's voice a few decibels higher. But the differ­ence was that I was yelling from the sidelines and not from the middle of the field into the referee's faces. And as far as being verbally abusive to the Siegfried sideline, what are they talking about? Was I calling them names or saying that they dressed funny? I do not think so. 
The only person I yelled to on the Siegfried sideline was the person who held the down marker who, on four separate occasions, instead of listening to the referee's decision, took it upon himself to add or subtract a down. 
And finally, I would love to know exactly which one of the Farley coaches knows and has close connections with the ref­eree. Do the Siegfried Slammers feel better after making up this incredible lie? Even further, where do you get your information? 
It is not, as you say, "obvious that Farley's victory was a di­rect result of the unfair officiat­ing." Farley's victory was a re­sult of hard play, a tough de­fense, good running, a great catch, and the will to come from behind and win. 
Tom Sadowski Jamie Bailey Mike Hunniford Farley's Finest football team 
Oct. 14, 1992 

DOONESBURY 
51R, IT'S NW 13CCCMING CLMR 7HAT 7H& U.5. 
HAPA 5lf0?8TPOUCY OF13UIU?ING UP SAWAM HI.Est:IN 
PRIOR 7D TH/3
I GUtFWAR. ... 
11./HY 010 YOU 16NOR£ !?&PtAlWINTm16&NC/3 
A55&55M/3NT5 7HAT WARNtlJA6AINST 
Hfi.PING S4a¥JM 
CWUOP 
Hl5 Nl,CtMR. 
/ CAPA81t.t7Yr 
w&u,we 
aJANTWlV 
/AJOr<J<. WITH HIM, 
EJRING HIM INTV 
TH& FIIMII-YOF NATIONS. THIS UIAS86FOREH& IIJASINHISBRU--...... 
TAl-/l!CTA7DR. 
MO~. 

8UTH&WAS GA55/NGHI5 WN Pf30PU. I 
I know you rider, gonna submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Thursday, October 29, 1992 page 11 
Americans need to recognize role of manufacturing 
One fact becomes alarmingly clear as one drives around any major American city, particu­larly in the Midwest: U.S. in­dustry is in decline. 
The backbone of our econ­omy, the dynamic force that made us a world power, is being reduced to scenes of abandoned factories, laid-off workers and memories of products we used to manufacture. 
The reasons for this collapse mainly stem from America's laissez-faire approach to economies and trade, while our competitors take a much more aggressive, zero-sum view and also from the public's negative opinion of U. S. manufacturing. 
American trade policy has been extremely misguided in the postwar era, favoring im­ports over exports and clinging to free market ideas long after they've been surpassed. 
The world's post-war eco­nomic expansion was due not so much to free trade policies, but due to the fact that the USA threw open it borders to a flood of foreign goods. 
Our competitors, particularly in Asia, do not really adhere to the theories of economies found in our textbooks. 
Japan practices neo-mer­cantilism and uses cartels, dumping, mass subsidiaries, a complex web of barriers to shield its own market and in­numerable other government activities to advance its eco­nomic conquests. It has been so 
effective that the "Little Tigers" 
such as Taiwan, Hong Kong, 
and South Korea are following 
its example. 
Europe, while not as extreme 
as Japan, maintains strict im­
port quotas and trade regula­
tions and continues to heavily 
subsidize its economies. 
Airbus, a completely subsi­dized European conglomerate, is now challenging Boeing for leadership in the last dominant American industry, aircraft. 
American companies must 
face domestic rivals as well as 
foreigners, who are often 
backed up by their own gov­
ernment's resources while the 
United States government is 
neutral at best. 
Our trade regulation is not 
even enforced. When the Cus­
toms Service convicted Japan of 
dumping TV sets in the mid­
1970s, the fines actually col­
lected were only a fraction of 
what they should have been. 
Ronald Reagan would not 
enforce the Super 301 clause of 
the 197 4 Trade Act in order to 
save American machine-tool 
makers against a heavily sub­
sidized Japanese cartel. When 
Smith-Corona closed its last 
U.S. plant in July, what reasons did it cite? "Predatory Japanese pricing and a lack of enforcement of U. S. trade laws." 
Now Bush is proposing NAFTA which could be the death knell of of U. S. manufac­
·turing. 

Jeffrey O'Donnell 
Guest Columnist 

Canada has similar living standards and regulations to the USA, but Mexico obviously does not. 
Smith-Corona and Zenith have fled there and nearly ev­ery major U. S. industry already has a plant there. How many more factory jobs will go'there? Estimates vary, but I would guess the number to be large. 
Just one example is textile where U.S. makers have sur­vived largely because domestic plants are a lot closer than those in East Asia. 
But now with a cheap, acces­sible labor supply about to be established in Mexico, that ad­vantage is eliminated. To quote Pat Buchanan, "U.S. textiles maybe the best in the world, but they cannot complete with Chinese earning $.28/hour." 
Many people say that these factory jobs would wind up in Mexico anyway, but do we wish to give the rest of the world the rope with which they will hang us? 
Donald Peterson, former chairman of Ford, once la­mented, "I wish someone would tell me that manufacturing is not American." That basically sums up business' problems with the general public. 
The public continues to maintain a complete miscon­
ception of U.S. industry as some kind of evil entity out to pollute the world and shaft consumers. They've almost welcomed the flood of foreign goods we are currently awash in and seem indifferent to the present struggle for survival that our manufacturers face. 
They also want our industries to be subjected to an immense amount of regulations and con­trols that our competitors just don't have to worry about. 
The public stereotypes are at least 15 years out-of-date, but foreign lawyers, lobbyists, and other agents of influence, especially from Japan, have done a good job of preserving these myths. 
Also, industry is not stressed in schools as professions such as law, medicine and finance are pushed. A turning away from manufacturing has also been noted as a reason for the decline of the British empire. 
Foreign "transplants" are obviously not a solution as they are mainly used for propaganda purposes and to circumvent trade restriction. Their products are technically classi­fied as "American" though they really are not. 
Most importantly, according to the National Association of Manufacturers they have actu­ally led to a net elimination of at least 10,000 U. S. jobs primarily because these factories import more than twice as much of their components as their domestic counterparts. 
In short, the "transplants" can really be likened to the Trojan Horse, as described in a book by the same name. 
The American people and government must acknowledge that industry is the key to our economy and strive to strengthen it. 
We cannot be a world power on a services economy mainly because you cannot export ser­vices. Aren't semi-conductors more important than McDon­ald's franchises? Wouldn't we make more money selling High Definition Televisions than corn? 
We need tough, enforced trade policies and laws and a recognition that we cannot blindly cling to the free market. 
We need a public which un­derstands the critical role of in­dustry in maintaining living standards and in providing good jobs. 
We must make America a friendly place to manufacture once again. Everyone's shop­ping need must become "Be American, Buy American" be­cause if we do not support our industries, who will? 
Lastly, I truly abhor the way "Rust Belt" is thrown around, but then the more accurate de­scription "Dumped and Regu­lated to Death Belt" isn't as catchy. 
Jeffrey O'Donnell is a sopho­more living in Grace Hall. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SMC students left out of article . • 
• 

Dear Editor: 
We are writing to you in reference to the article which concerns the "NO" Right to Life group (The Observer, Oct. 12, 1992). Next time you decide to write an article about the Right to Life group, or any club for that matter, we would hope that you would remember to include the students at Saint Mary's who also participate. 
On Thursday, Oct. 8, three SMC students were at the same abortion clinic mentioned in the article, protesting as we had signed up to do through the ND/SMC Right to Life group. 
We saw no ND students standing in the cold rain, receiving obscene gestures and rude comments from pro­abortion passers-by. However, ND students were recognized while SMC students were not. 
SMC students participate in many ND/SMC clubs and activities. We feel that when article such as the one mentioned above appears in The Observer it should acknowledge that not only ND students participate in these clubs, but also SMC students. 

We are sure that some SMC students participated in Friday's protest, and we know from experience that SMC students participated in Thursday's Respect Life Week's activities. 
We simply feel that a good reporter would have given credit to SMC students also, and hopefully in the future you will research your articles more thoroughly. 
Kristen Artz Kathleen Artz Tracy Emery Holy Cross Hall Oct. 13, 1992 

. and out of newspaper in general 

Don't jump to conclusions on the basis of one incident 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to what I see as a severe oversight on the part of The Observer since the beginning of the school year: Saint Mary's College. 
I understand that Saint Mary's is much smaller than Notre Dame, however, the lack of publicity for events on our campus and about our campus is absurd. Let me point out some recent oversights: 
Tuesday, Oct. 13, 1992, Saint Mary's celebrated Founders' Day. If this had occurred at Notre Dame, it would have re­ceived front page coverage with a very large headline. Saint Mary's Founders' Day received page 3 coverage. The 20th an­niversary of women at Notre Dame received its own special section of the paper. Where was ours focusing on our founders and our heritage? 
Oct. 9-11, was Senior Father Daughter Weekend at Saint Mary's. Unlike the weekend before, when Notre Dame hosted Parents Weekend, The Father Daughter Weekend was not publicized with the events of the weekend published. 
In September, U.S. News and World Report came out with its annual ranking of colleges and universities. The headline of Saint Mary's move upward was proportionately smaller than the one which followed the next day telling of Notre Dame's move downward. 
And, need I cite all the vari­ous examples of the minimal sports coverage our Varsity Belles receive? Notre Dame in­tramurals receive more space than these women do. Not to mention the amount of space our intramurals receive ... There have also been times when our soccer team's results haven't even been published. But God forbid if the latest re­sults of interhall football aren't published. 
Or how about our student 

government meetings? If we're lucky, we receive coverage on maybe page three, or four, or five. 
And the Student Senate gets a major headline on page one demanding an apology for Sinead's actions on the part of NBC. Get real. 
It appears that there is a problem. On the front page of The Observer every it states: An independent newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Perhaps this needs to be changed. 
Or perhaps the coverage of Saint Mary's accomplishments and events needs to be changed. 
Perhaps these examples were oversights, but this type of exclusion has been happening too often for anyone at Saint Mary's to sit by and watch with a conscience. 
Jill C. Burdo Le Mans Hall Oct. 14, 1992 Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to David Holsinger's letter (The Observer, Oct. 8) regarding pro­lifers. I would like to ask Holsinger a few questions. 
Could you please, sir, be a little more general in your description of all pro-lifers? Have you ever heard of the word "stereotype"? Perhaps you should consult Webster's. 
It is nothing short of care­lessness and stupidity for a parent to ignore the safety of his/her children for any reason. 
I find it quite a large leap of faith on your part, however, to draw the conclusion from this incident that all pro-lifers consider their children's safety secondary to the demonstration of their views on abortion. 
I also don't understand how you conclude that no pro-lifers care about the evils of poverty, injustice, and child abuse. Just because certain people chose to spend time protesting abortion does not mean that they neglect other problems. 
I remember during my undergraduate years working on the Christmas in April 
neighborhood improvement program where quite a few of the volunteers just happened to belong to the campus right to life group. 
It seems to me, Mr. Holsinger, that this incident had nothing to do with your views about pro-lifers and their beliefs. 
You had your mind made up about them long before this incident happened. Have you ever heard of the word "prejudice"? Perhaps you should consult Webster's again. 
I have one more comment to make about your article with regard to your statement, "who are you (pro-lifers) to dictate that all children are to be brought into the world, regard­less of whether they will be protected or not?" 
Who is anyone, save God almighty, to dictate which children will be brought into the world and which children will not? 
Kevin Costello Class of 1990 Oct. 8,1992 

r-----------,-~~--~--­
Accent 
page 12 Thursday, October 29, 1992 

Unchartered terrain 
Saint Mary's campus provides a number of secluded places for students to explore 
By AMY BENNETT parts of campus. The journey to the Accent Writer trails is a walk in itself. Grass paths lead through and around fields, and 
• Take a walk off the beaten path. deer can often be seen wandering 
The usual routes Saint Mary's around the land. students take to get to and from class reveal little of the 275 acres of campus The Nature Area is thickly wooded, that exist. and although a sign suggests staying 
on the trail, a path down to the river 
On the southwest edge of campus, has been well-worn by those that have near the Church of Loretta, a gazebo strayed. Saint Mary's sophomore Tara overlooks the Saint Joseph river. Casey Schrader said her trips to the trails Hall and Elizabeth Martin, Saint are like trips back in time. Mary's juniors, both consider the "You feel kind of adventurous at gazebo their favorite place to get first," she said. "It brings back away. childhood memories of going through 
"There's no one around," said Hall. the woods, just to hear the leaves "It's a place where I can look at nature crackling when you kick them, like and hear nature. There's no when you were a kid playing in the pressure-you can just focus yourself." yard." 
Martin said she remembers when she and her friends took their dates The swings behind the coffeehouse for the freshman formal to the gazebo near Holy Cross are another place to before the dance. "We set up a table reminisce according to students. and had cheese and crackers. We put Mary Brooks, a Saint Mary's alumna on some music and just enjoyed the and the mother of junior Jane Brooks night." said she remembers the swings from 
"I like to get away from the parking lot and the Sec,urity hut is when she was a student in the early 
Just outside the front door of Haggar confusion of the day. It's so peaceful another inconspicuous spot, although 60s. She would often take her sister's College Center, a fountain sprays from there. There's no one running past you it is right in the heart of the campus. children to play on the swings when Lake Marian. The small lake is or bumping into you." Part of the garden can be seen from they came to visit. frequented by students when the the sidewalk near Moreau Hall, but a "The swings have been there for weather is warm, and Canadian geese Between LeMans Hall and Lake narrow path winds behind the house years," she said. "One of the greatest all year round. Jennifer Lackey, a Marian, right near the road, is a paved through flowers and trees. Several feelings was looking out Jane's junior at Saint Mary's, likes to cross area in the grass. Upon closer stone benches offer a quiet place to window in Holy Cross and seeing that the bridge to the secluded area in the examination, the flat pavement leads study. the swings were still there." middle of the lake. to a stone-paved garden, with benches 
"There are trees all around you and and a small pond. This garden In the northeast corner of campus, Countless niches on Saint Mary's it's really dark, so you can see showcases the Saint Mary's behind the driving range near the campus are overlooked in the rush to everyone walking around you but landscaping crew as it boasts track, hides the George and Juanda get to class, to the library, or to nobody knows you're there," Lackey numerous types of flowers and plants Bick Nature Area. Perhaps the least meetings, according to students. said. Lackey also said that she likes to that are in bloom in the Spring. celebrated of Saint Mary's 'getaways,' Taking a walk and exploring what the 
sit on one of the stone benches and The· garden of the Riedinger many students claimed that these campus has to offer can make for an relax there between classes. Alumnae House between the LeMans trails are arguably one of the greatest ideal escape. 
Sea ofWords perseveres in the music industry 
By MEGHAN KING Bregande remarks about the heard guitarist Marc Conklin's but their repertoire reflects a make a living from it, which Accent Writer number of available former ND band, The Five variety of musical influences, pretty much just means management groups. "It's O'Clock Shadows three years as shown in the bluesier tune paying the rent." 
"There's a lot of bullshit in incredible, it seems ago. Bregande invited the "Ani" and a mellow rock the music business," says Joe overwhelming. At the same group to record in New York number, "Rollin," sung by Right now, Bregande says, "I Bregande, lead singer and time, I take some consolation where he was getting his Conklin. Catchy lyrics, such as really wanna get going." He songwriter for Sea of Words in how many shitty bands degree in sound recording, "My girlfriend lives in a wants to get to Minneapolis which is now touring the have contracts. The figures, I and told Conklin, "If you guys magazine/She may be flat and where there are a lot of clubs, Midwest. "If you're in it to try not to believe them or else break up and still wanna play glossy but she knows just a lot of venues, and a lot of make it, you might as well I'd quit." music, give me a call." what I need," give the band an bands. "This sucks. Here I am, give up." Conklin returned the call added original flavor. pretty much out of money, 
Unlike other groups that According to Bregande, a two years later, marking the hanging around, and I haven't have already "made it," Sea great deal of making it in the beginning of Sea of Words. It's a quirky business to be eaten today." Of Words does not have an b u s i n e s s Since then, in, and Bregande, like may Artist and Repertoire (A&R) relies on luck. 'If I didn't have a love t h e musicians, says,"If I didn't Although the band did not supporter pushing their have a love for music then I intend to be in South Bend
"You gotta be for music then I couldn't members 
posters, selling their tapes real lucky and and the couldn't do it. It's really this long, Bregande expects and requesting radio stations work your ass do it. It's stupid. A lot of music have insane, the business. It's Sea of Words to be here until to play their music. According off," he says, changed, stupid. A lot of people think, the spring. The band seems to Bregande, bands who are "Say for some people think, 'Wow, but the 'Wow, dude, I'm gonna be a content gaining a local represented "can concentrate w e i r d d d I' b cur r e n t rock star,' but you can't have following, thanks to Club 23, 
on what they should be reason-some u e, m gonna e a g r 0 u p that attitude." which has been giving them concentrating on: writing and u n k n 0 w n rock star,' but you can't consists of good nights and helping them 
recording." reason-some Bregan de Bregande's game plan for target the music scene. "We're But A&R people are hard to A&R person have that kind Of on lead Sea of Words is perseverance. lucky that way, "says get. They can receive up to walks vocals and "You have to keep going," he Bregande. "I love playing at
into attJ'tude.' 
1000 tapes a day, leaving only Club· 23 acoustic says. "If you think you're Club 23." enough time for them to listen because he's -Joe Bregande guitar. Paul stuff's good and you've re­to each tape for an average of p a s s i .n g Loughridge, evaluated your stuff, then you Sea of Words is scheduled to 
10 seconds before fast through town--------------a former just have to keep going or give play at Club 23 Halloween forwarding to the chorus. or something. I don't know, he member of Notre Dame's St. up. If you love it, you keep night, supported by another "They listen for hooks," says just came from a fodtball Paul and the Martyrs on going no matter how shitty the campus band, The Sister Bregande. "If they listen to the game or something. And drums, and John Fletcher business is." Chain. In addition, Sea of third song they probably like you're playing. You could be from Notre Dame's Words is scheduled to play in 
you already." Also, "you have successful." Dysfunktion on bass. Bregande says Sea of Words Chicago's Lincoln Top Room to be real careful they're not Sea of Words plays plans to last "until someone tonight. A tape of six of the going to rip you off" says the frequently at Club 23 in South The foursome create an decides-or we all group's originals is also for singer/songwriter. Bend where Bregande first upbeat and alternative sound, decide-we're not gonna sale. 
Thursday, October 29, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Confusion looms on horizon for heavyweight division 
NEW YORK (AP)-The man­ager of boxer Riddick Bowe said Wednesday he was incensed that the World Boxing Council may refuse to recognize Bowe as heavyweight champion if he beats Evander Holyfield on Nov. 13. 
WBC president Jose Sulaiman said Tuesday that the Holyfield­Bowe winner would have 30 days to negotiate a title defense against the winner of Satur­day's eliminator between Len­nox Lewis of Britain and Canada's Razor Ruddock. 
If Bowe won and then failed to meet the Council's conditions, the WBC would install the Lewis-Ruddock victor as its world champion. 

"The WBC will recognize the winner of the Oct. 31 fight as the WBC champion of the world if the winner on Nov. 13 doesn't fight him," Sulaiman said. 
Sulaiman said both Holyfield and Bowe had agreed in writing to defend the crown against the Lewis-Ruddock winner, but that Bowe was having second thoughts. 
"The comments made by Su­laiman are deplorable," said Rock Newman, Bowe's man­ager. "He continues his efforts to harass and intimidate Rid­dick Bowe and myself. The WBC's credibility is now non­existent, and we are not af­fected by the prospect of them not recognizing Riddick as the champion. 
The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATIENTION: 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
BUILD-YOUR-OWN BREAKFAST SANDWICH 
SUNDAY, NOV.1, 1992 11 :00 A.M. -1 :30 P.M. NOR TH/SOUTH DINING HALL 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: gold colored bracelet found in front of Alumni. Call Dave at 239­7018 to claim. 
FOUND: A SMALL COMPUTER 
NEAR STEPS ON JUNIPER 
GOING TO FLANNER. CALL & 
IDENTIFY. 239-7957 OR 
272-1112 EVENINGS. 
SEIKOWATCH 
ROMAN NUMERALS 
BLACK BAND 
LOST AT BYU GAME 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
REWARD 
#2933 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext A5584. 
Actors/ Actresses Needed I! 
Student film, exp. nee. Call Pat 
287-4227. 
NEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade boy in SB. I tutored him last year but I graduated. Please call me collect in NY for more info Mike Ferguson 718-325-9642 or call CSC 
Exchange student seeks to rent 
room with a family or with other 
students. Contact 283-3115 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. ..Begin NOW! ... FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
Immediate opening for student to distribute promotional materials on campus. Flexible part-time hours. Call Kathy at 1-800-592-2121 x127. 
STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS. Promote our Florida Spring Break packages. Earn MONEY and FREE trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. Call Campus Marketing. 800-423-5264. 
Help! Anyone driving to see Ned's 
Atomic Dustbin Nov.1 in Chi.? I 
need a ride, I'll help pay. Call Pete 
x1231 
NEED RIDE to & from OU-Athens or nearby, for Halloween! If going please call Amy X417 4. 
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899. 
2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a day 2880955 
2 bedroom,clean,quite,appliances and utilities included $335 month 
287-2189 # 
B & B -MINUTES FROM NO. 
616­663-8308 -NILES 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: TREK 300 BIKE, $225 OBO. ALL 
SHIMANO COMPONENTS. 
EXCELLENT CONDITION. 271­0370. 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 
234-6524 
SC FOR THANKSGIVING? I have a plane ticket... DIRT CHEAP please call LuAnn at X 4792 
Cheap trip to southern vactionland! 
Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving Break. You name the price. Call DAVE at 283-3662. 
TICKETS 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX 
CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam x4842 
Need One Ticket For Boston College!!! Call273-2967!!! 
In Need of 
BC tickets 
(as many as humanly possible) call Aileen X4292 
Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$ Lisa 288-5196 
•••••••NEED PSU TIX ........ Call Laurie x2998 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need PSU tix 
Mike 234-8306 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I must have B.C. tickets! Either Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and his buddies are coming in from 
B.C. to watch their team get slaughtered! Please help me out! I'M DESPERATE!!!!!! X4990 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN ST GA, PRETTY PLEASE WITH A CHERRY ON TOP. MIKE X2209 
#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$##$#$#$#$# 
2 NAVY GAs for sale. 
Call JACK at 283-1747 
#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$# 
NEED 2 PENN. ST. GA's 271-0742 lv message w/price 
NEED 10 PENN ST GAs BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!!!!!! 2---4 STUDENT TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE! My friends are poor but If you are nice and aren't planning on going they would appreciate your help. Call JON X3592. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$08 sperately Need 2 BC GA's JOSH X41 07 leave message $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
THE 'RENTS ARE COMING! And they need penn tix! Please call Ann x4508 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED B.C. TICKETS!!! 
GREAT MONEY... 
CALL ANGELA 
283-2729 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S PAUL X1450 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
REALLY NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S!!!! CALL DOUG AT 273-1758 
I need 1 Penn State ticket, student or G.A. Becky 233-4925 
I need one GA for BC and one student ticket or GA for Penn State. Will Pay! I! Bill #2002 
I need 3 BC GAs. Even 1 or 2 would be GREAT! Call Jan x3848 
For sale 2 Navy GA's 617-491-8433 
NOV. 7 IS MY BIRTHDAY ... PLEASE HELP ME OUT BY SELLING ME YOUR BOSTON COLLEGE G.A.'s CALL JOE AT x3426 
WE NEED BC STUD TIX BADLY! CALL KEV OR MIKE AT x1103 
$$$$$$$$$$ HELP! I need 1 BCGA TIM x2763 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
N E E 0 PENN ST & BC 
WILL BEAT 
ANY INSANE 
OFFER 
kyle 
234-9433 
WILL BEAT 
ANY INSANE OFFER 
GIVE A CALL & TRY ME 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
COLD CASH PAID FOR 2 BC GA'S. CALL KEVIN #3291 
I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY X3443 
I'M DESPERATE... Oh, and I need Penn St. lix for my little bros! Student or GA's... BIG BUCKS JEN X4975 
NEED GAs, Penn St, BC x3593 
Need: 3 BC GAs Call X1234 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
Need 6 ND-BC tickets call288-5474 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 
NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAYI DEREK SCHNACK X1374 
California ALUM desperate for Penn State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. (( (415)597-2319 
HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE CALL JENNY 215-265-7346. 
I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S call Tom 288-1027 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
You have what I want You have what I want 
and I am willing to pay for it yes, I will pay for it 1!!!!!!!!!!!!!11! 
PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME I desperately need it NOW!! 
Your right, I NEED GAs 
KYLIE 287-9118 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Needed-2 to 4 tickets to the Nov. 7 game vs BC. Please call (517) 337-4973. 
I NEED PSU GA'S MEGAN 4222 

••••••BYU.PENN STATE•Bc•••••• FOR SALE: 2 stud tix books for all 
remaining games. Will sell all together or each game. X3346 Lee or Levell 
Need 6 BC GA's Call Scott x1157 
HELP! I NEED 2 B.C. TICKETS EITHER GA OR STUDENT 
CALL KATIE X1262 

FOR SALE: 2 lix for NO vs. NAVY Call Michelle x4416 
GOOD $ FOR PENN ST TIX NICKX4284 
!NEED ONE B.C. STUDENT TICKET CALL JEN -273-2527 
HELP ME! I desperately need BC Student or GA tickets! Call Ellen x4294 
Need Penn State Tickets Pleasecall: Kara x4174 
Need 2 BC GA's Joe #1112 
NEED PENN STATE GA'S MATI x1802 
I NEED B.C. TICKETSII CALL DAVE 271-7131 
YOU WANT TO SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE TIX stud. or g.a. Need 2. Patti x4947 
SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL HISTORY! CALL RICH AT x1005 
Need 2 GA's for BC. Will pay top $$. Call Derek 283-4522. 
We NEED Penn State GA's and Boston College student OR G.A. tixl Please call at x1771 
Need BC Tickets Please call John at 271-0759 Family coming for BC Need both stdnt and GAs Paul @ 273-1364 or 239-5273 
$$ Help! Need up to 4 BC GAs. Call Mike At x1115. $$ 
The people who pay my tuition need 4 GAs for B.C. call Rich 233-9279 
TRADE -2 BC TKS FOR PN ST. GREAT SEATS FOR SAME. (502) 228-3040. 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR NO ­BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @ 287-4561. 
Deperate for 2 BC GA's CALL x1803 TODAY! 

PERSONAL 
HeyNiff 

OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
PAWN BUY SELL TRADE 
OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 

CUT INTERRUPTIONS! GET THE WORD OUT! Hotlines for faculty, student groups, teams, event­sponsors only $10 month. Callers hear latest info. Local exchange. Remote updating. Limited number available. Call277-8260, Ext. 22. 
WHAT MAKES YOU SO SPECIAL? Every year, $6 billion in college aid goes unclaimed. You qualify for some of it. For $39.95, I guarantee to find at least 25 potential aid sources based on your qualifications. Group discounts. Call277-8260, Ext. 23. 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Information on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Australia. We represent 28 Australian Universities. Call us toll free 1-800-245-2575. 
SYR HALLOWEEN HEADQUARTERS 
Cute punkin bears & kitties, candy corn and trick or treat Trolls, witches and Frankensteins!! 
The Country Harvester M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-3 
Lower Level of Lafortune 

RIDE NEEDED -Scranton, PA area for Thanksgiving. Pis call Bryan 3320 
Thanks for all your help, Dan I Enjoy the games enough for both of us ... Erin 
LYONS HALL WHODUNIT? 
Clue#2 You don't have to be a rocket scientist to commit this crime Add it all up to get to the bottom line If you find the murderer, you won't be in the red And at Tippecanoe you will be well fed. 
MIMS: the greatest man on this campus, but I must say FRANK,damnit, I LOVE YOU!! 
Yeeeaaaaa. 
DO CONFLICTS PLAGUE YOUR LIFE? Come to the Mediation Exploration meeting at the esc to discuss the possibility of a Mediation Service on campus. Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 5:15 
MARGE 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
Loving young couple want to adopt baby. Mom a teacher will stay home full time. Call Laura/Brian collect 708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194 
!!Ill! I!!!!! 
Hobbes is still not 21 , too bad some day you'll drink with us 
I! I I I I! I I ! I 
Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212) 369-2597. 
LONDON PROGRAM 
APPLICATIONS 
are due 5:00P.M. Friday, October 30 
Trolls and candy, witches too, Bats, make-up and masks just for you! 
Your SYR & Party Headquarters 
The Country Harvester 
M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-3 
Lower Level LaFortune 
Attn. SMC Community: Soph. Board is collecting items to aid the victims of Hurricane Andrew. Please donate what you can. Boxes will be in all the main entrances of the buildings until Friday Oct. 30. Thanks for your support! 
...................... * ••••• 
Hey Three Blond Musketeers: Here are your belated Pitt Quotes 
1. 
Ditching the SYR 

2. 
Rental! 

3. 
FASDAD! 

4. 
Electric Blue 

5. 
I don't drive well with that there. 

6. 
What's that in the sky? I don't know, just make a wish! 

7. 
The problem is .. I've come so many different ways. 

8. 
What do ya mean? He's lookin at you or you're lookin at him? 

9. 
Kodad moment 

10. 
He's flooding the field, she's flooding the stands, and WE"RE DROWNING! Dare we make another road trip? 


Luv, Jello Knees 
Justin, Thanks for the great weekend! Debbie 
DOOMSDAY IS APPROACHING. 
If I want to make it through next weekend, I need to find some BC GA's. 
....Jenn 4059. 
do you work for the ira? i don't know i'm asking!!! 
Here Comes the Heisman!! Here Comes the Heisman!! 
Women's Bible Study Breen-Phillips Hall University of Notre Dame 7 p.m. Thursdays Gospel of St. John. 


'Thursday, October 29, 1992


Kickoff Returners HOCKEY 
AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Receiver• BASEBALL
NO Yda Avg LG TO National Hockey League
Quarterbacks No Yda Avg LG To American League
Baldwin, Cle. 13 338 26.0 47 0 NHL-Named Ellis "Skip" Prince executive di.
All Com Yda TO In! Vaughn, N.E. 13 318 24.5 59 0 Sharpe, G.B. 44 662 15.0 76 5 . BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Exercised the 1993 op-rector of broadcast services. Moon, Hou. 251 165 2024 16 11 Prrtchard, All. 42 413 9.8 27 3 t10n of Tim Hulett, infielder. 
McMillan, NY-J 12 273 22.8 45 0 CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Signed Brian Noo­
Kelly, Bul. 221 133 1862 13 8 Workman, G.B. 39 259 6.6 21 0 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Exercised the 1993
Montgomery, Den. 11 222 20.2 32 0 nan, nght wmg, to a two-year contract. Recalled
O'Donnell, Pit. 201 119 1489 7 3 Irvin, Dal. 36 728 20.2 87 4 opt10n of Terry Leach, pitcher. 
Stanley, S.D.-N.E. 13 260 20.0 40 0 Steve Bancroft, defenseman, from Indianapolis of
Marino, Mia. 259 156 1980 13 9 Rison, All. 36 503 14.0 71 6 National League
Ball, Cin. 9 179 19.9 37 0 the International Hockey League. 
Krieg, K.C. 207 113 1467 6 7 C. Carter, Min. 36 479 13.3 44 6 MONTREAL EXPOS-Declined to offer salary
Stegall, Cin. 13 249 19.2 39 0 PITTSBURGH PENGUINS-Announced Martin
Millen, N.E. 192 119 1166 8 10 Barnett, Phi. 35 574 16.4 71 4 arbitration to Bill Krueger, phcher. 
Stone, Pit. 9 171 19.0 28 0 Straka, center, ':"'ill join the Penguins after being re.
Elway, Den. 213 114 1464 7 9 E. Martin, N.O. 35 549 15.7 52 4 NEW YORK METS-Named Ron Washington
Verdin, Ind. 17 322 18.9 35 0 leased from hts contract with Skoda Plzen of
Humphries, S.D. 194 112 1417 5 10 Perriman, Del. 34 403 11.9 40 3 manager and Dave Jorn pitching coach of
Warren, Sea. 18 338 18.8 34 0 Czechoslovakia. 
Marinovlch, Ral. 155 78 ton 5 6 Clark, Was. 32 490 15.3 47 4 Columbia of the South Atlantic League. 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Recalled Dave Mackey and

Nagle, NY-J 186 94 1147 4 6 Dawsey, T.B. 32 436 13.6 41 1 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Placed Ed Whitson 
Scoring Kevtn Mtehm, forwards, from Peoria of the Interna­
phcher, on the voluntary retired list. ' tional Hockey League. 
Touchdowns TO Rush Rec Ret Pta TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Acquired Bob Beers
Ruahera Punters Eastern League 
All Yds Avg LG TO NO Yda LG Avg BOWIE-Named J. Keith lupton general man­
T. Thomas, But. 8 5 3 0 48 d~fenseman, from the Boston Bruins tor Stephan~
Foster, Prt. 164 747 4.6 69 4 Barnhardt, N.O. 29 1297 62 44.7 ager.
Givins, Hou. 7 0 7 0 42 Richer, defenseman. 
White, Hou. 119 582 4.9 44 3 Arnold, Del. 30 1323 61 44.1 Carolina League
Higgs, Mia. 6 6 0 0 36 International Hockey League 
T. Thomas, But. 121 sn 4.8 36 5 Saxon, Dal. 31 1365 58 44.0 FREDERICK KEYS-Name Larry Martin acting
Jeffires, Hou. 6 0 6 0 36 PHOENIX ROADRUNNERS-Reassigned Mike
Word, K.C. 122 484 4.0 25 3 Newsome, Min. 33 1429 63 43.3 general manager.
Jackson, Den. 5 0 5 0 30 Ruark, .Jim Maher and Dave Stewart, defensemen.
Higgs, Mia 133 463 3.5 20 6 Camarillo, Pho. 23 985 73 42.8 BASKETBALL 
Duper, Mia. 4 0 4 0 24 and Keith Redmond, left wing, to Muskegon of the
Green, Cin. 107 461 4.3 52 1 Bracken, Rams 31 1327 59 42.8 Notional Basketball Association
0 0 24 Colontal Hockey League.
Foster, Prt. 4 4

Bernstine, S.D. 83 439 5.3 25 3 Feagles, Phi. 29 1235 63 42.6 CHICAGO BULLS-Waived Keith Tower,
Fryar, N.E. 4 0 4 0 24 SAN DIEGO GULLS-Released Michael
Warren, Sea. 99 408 4.1 52 1 Gardockl, Chi. 33 1402 61 42.5 center, and Joe Courtney, forward. 
Metcalf, Cle. 4 t 3 0 24 Brewer, center. Loaned Denny Lambert, left wing,
Thomas, NY-J 88 384 4.4 17 0 Goodburn, Was. 29 1206 66 41.6 INDIANAPOLIS PACERS-Waived Sean
White. Hou. 4 3 1 0 24 to St. Thomas of the Colonial Hockey League 
Dickerson, Ral. 95 347 3.7 40 1 Landeta, NY-G 32 1315 53 41.1 Woods, guard. 
Colonial Hockey League · MIAMI HEAT-Waived George Ackles, forward,Kicking 

MUSKEGON FURY-Signed Phil Berger, tell PAT FG LG Pta wing. 
Receivers Punt Returns and Carlos Funchess and John Monon, guards. 
No Yda Avg LG TO No Yda Avg LG TO Continental Basketball Association
Stoyanovich, MIa. 20-21 14-17 53 62
Jeffires, Hou. 49 522 10.7 47 6 Gray, Det. 9 131 14.6 58 1 CBA-Reinstated Darren Guest, center. OLYMPICS 15.9 51 2 British Oly"1llc Association
G. Anderson, Pit. 12-14 14-18 49 54
Reed, Bul. 41 652 Martin, Dal. 17 234 13.8 79 1 FARGO-MOORHEAD FEVER-Signed Eric
Lowery, K.C. 15-15 13-15 52 54
Duncan, Hou. 41 564 13.8 72 0 Sil<ahema, Phi. 10 120 12.0 34 0 Bamberger, center, and Kevin Madden and BOA-Elected Craig Reedie chairman, Neil Williams, Sea 40 258 6.5 20 0 Christie, But. 22-23 10-13 52 52 Meggett, NY-G 13 150 11.5 39 0 Lafester Rhodes, forwards. Townshend vice chairman, and Paul PruszynskiDel Greco, Hou. 21-21 10-13 54 51
Graham, Prt. 34 536 15.8 51 1 Buckley, G.B. 12 127 10.6 58 1 . GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Named Norm Devine honorary treasurer. 
Treadwell, Den. 13-13 10-13 45 43
Givins, Hou. 34 367 10.8 30 7 Parker, Min. 16 158 9.9 29 0 dtrector of media relations. Signed Darren Guest United States 01yr!1llc Committee 
Jaeger, Rai. 12-12 10-18 54 42
4 center. ' USOC-Named Patty Saba manager of the Carney, S.D. 11-11 9-14 49 38
Fryar, N.E. 31 484 15.6 54 M"chell, Was. 13 123 9.5 32 0 
Miller, S.D. 30 476 15.9 67 3 Bailey, Pho. 9 81 9.0 13 0 TAl-CITY CHINOOK-Acquired Marty Haws and athlete support department. 
Stover, Cle. 11-12 8-13 51 35
Sharpe, Den. 30 362 12.1 55 1 Turner, Rams 18 117 6.5 17 0 Andy Toolson, g~ards, from the Rockford Lightning SOCCER 
Breech, Cln. 13-13 6-10 41 31
Paige, Mia 30 256 8.5 30 1 Grant, S.F. 11 69 6.3 46 0 for Lowell Hamtlton, forward, the rights to Les National Prole..lonal Soccer League Jepsen, center, and a 1993 second-round draft COLORADO FOXES-Signed Mark Sante!. tor­Punters pick. ward, to a three-year contract. 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Kickoff ReturnersQuarterbacks
NO Yda LG Avg NO Yda Avg LG TO YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Signed Tod Bernard, COLLEGE Stark, Ind. 35 1647 64 47.1 forward. CORNELL-Suspended Kim Jordan, women's
All Com Yda TO In! 
Sanders, All. to 348 34.8 99 1 
Horan, Den. 37 1681 62 45.4 Young, S.F. 176 119 1706 11 4 Gray, Det. FOOTBALL basketball coach, for five practices by the university
20 597 29.9 89 1 
2604 65 44.9 Cunningham, Phi.178 111 1324 12 5 National Football League for holding practice before the NCAA's Nov. 1
Tuten, Sea. 58 Bailey, Pho. 15 417 27.8 63 0
Miller, Atl. 231 139 1592 14 6
Johnson, Cin. 37 1628 64 44.0 Nelson, Min. 14 317 22.6 53 0 BUFFALO BILLS-Placed Brad Lamb, wide re. starting date. Gossett, Rai. 40 1735 56 43.4 Peete, Del. 170 101 1434 9 6 G. Anderson, T.B. 13 283 21.8 39 0 ceiver, on injured reserve. Reclaimed Eddie Fuller DEPAUL-Signed Joey Meyer, men's basketball McCarthy, N.E. 41 1768 61 43.1 Harbaugh, Chi. 210 128 1649 10 6 C. Harris, Hou.-G.B.14 304 21.7 42 0 running back, off waivers. ' coach, to a multiyear contract extension. Chandler, Pho. 188 115 1366 8 4
Kidd, S.D. 34 1455 65 42.8 McAfee, N.O. 11 237 21.5 38 0 DETROIT LIONS-Waived Chuck Thomas. cen. 
Favre, G.B. 185 117 1285 6 3
Barker, K.C. 43 1822 61 42.4 Howard, Was. 11 235 21.4 34 ter. Stgned Leonard Burton. center.
0
Gannon, Min. 182 113 1341 11 8
Hansen, Cle. 37 1557 73 42.1 INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Piaced Quentin Cory­ESULTS
Turner, Rams 13 270 20.8 35 0
Hebert, N.O. 183 108 1482 9 7
Aguiar, NY-J 28 1175 65 42.0 Sikahema, Phi. 9 184 20.4 25 0 at.t, linebacker, on InJured reserve. Signed Tom 
Simms, NY-G 137 83 912 5 3 Ricketts, offensive lineman. Waived Cornell Hoi· NL Manager, List 
Punt Returns Scoring loway, defensive back. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The National LeagueRuahera

No Yds Avg LG TO Touchdowns KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Waived Eddie Murray 
Managers of the Year as selected by the Baseball TO Rush Rec Ret Pta Wrrter's Association of America (the BBWAA began 
All Yda Avg LG TO
Pickens, Cin. 11 205 18.6 95 1 kicker. ' 
E. Smrth, Dal. 170 733 4.3 26 9
Marshall, Den. 14 207 14.8 47 0 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Placed Tim Gor­Woodson, Prt. 14 190 13.6 80 1 Watters, S.F. 118 576 4.9 30 6 , don, safety, on the practice squad. Waived Darren 
E. Sm"h, Dal. 9 9 0 0 54 selecting In 1983): 
Allen, Min. 7 6 0 42 1983-Tommy Lasorda, Los Angeles
Walker, Phi. 141 575 4.1 36 2
Hale, But. 14 175 12.5 27 0 Hampton, NY·G 7 7 0 0 42 Anderson, cornerback, from the practice squad. t 984 -Jim Frey, Chicago 
Hampton, NY-G 124 558 4.5 63 7
Brown. Rai. 22 249 11.3 40 0 Watters, S.F. 7 6 1 0 42 . NEW YORK JETS-Waived Karl Wilson, defen· 
1985 -Whrtey Herzog, St. Louis Carter, K.C. 17 182 10.7 46 1 stve lineman. Re-signed A.B. Brown running back. 
Gary, Rams 132 519 3.9 40 5 
C. Carter, Min. 6 0 6 0 36 t 986 -Hal Lanier, Houston Verdin, Ind. 11 116 10.5 84 1 Rathman, S.F. 6 3 3 0 36 SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Signed Jacob 1987 -Bob Rodgers, Montreal
Byner, Was. 136 510 3.8 23 3 
Cobb, T.B. 134 499 3.7 25 5
Miller, Mia. 13 124 9.5 19 0 Green, defensive end. 
Rison, Atl. 6 0 6 0 36 1988-Tommy Lasorda, Los AngelesB. Sanders, Del. 125 489 3.9 55 4
Metcalf, Cle. 12 96 8.0 19 0 . TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Signed E.J. Ju.
Anderson, Chi. 5 3 2 0 30 1989-Don Zimmer, Chicago Allen, Min. 99 473 4.8 51 6
Bieniemy, S.D. 25 196 7.8 21 0 mor, linebacker.
Cobb, T.B. 5 5 0 0 30 1990-Jim Leyland, Pittsburgh Workman, G.B. t 10 400 3.6 22 0 1991-Bobby Cox, Atlanta 1992 -Jim Leyland, Pittsburgh 
oween 
AT THE ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
A night you'll wish you could remember. 
Prizes for best costumes Live disc jockey 9~2 Costume a must! 
must be 21 


Thursday, October 29, 1992 
AP file photo Jim Leyland is the 1992 National League Manager of the Year. 
The Observer 

Leyland t~bbed as NL Manager of the Year 

San Francisco group ups offer for Giants 
NEW YORK (AP) -The group trying to keep the Giants in San Francisco today increased their offer to $100 million from $95 million. 
The NL said it had received the offer from a group headed by Safeway Inc. chairman Peter Magowan. The league said it would continue to study the proposal alongside the $115 million bid from a Florida 
A========================~ to their prompt decision." 

The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deiiciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 

Great for Tailgate and After ..Game Parties! 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 2:3 & Ironwood/277-7744 US :31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 115 w. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) 

Open 8 a.m. on home game days! 

*All Turkey Based 
NEW YORK {AP) -Jim Ley­land, who guided the Pitts­burgh Pirates to their third straight National League East title this season, was named NL Manager of the Year on Wednesday. 
Leyland was voted first on 20 of 24 ballots and received 109 points overall to beat rookie manager Felipe Alou of the Montreal Expos. Alou, who took over in May for Tom Runnells, was named on three first-place ballots and received 65 points. The other first-place vote went to Atlanta's Bobby Cox, who finished third with 29 points. 
It was the second time in the three years that Leyland has been named Manager of the Year in voting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
"This is real pleasing to me," Leyland said at a news confer­ence in Pittsburgh. "Nobody wants to sound like they're boasting, but I think it was my best year. We had to do some unorthodox things, and every­thing happened to work out." 
The Pirates finished 96-66 
group headed by Vincent J. Naimoli. 
Giants owner Bob Lurie an­nounced Aug. 7 that he had agreed in principal to sell the team to Naimoli, who would move the Giants to the Florida Suncoast Dome in St. Peters­burg. However, NL president Bill White said in September he would accept a Bay area offer and submit it to owners for and beat the Expos by nine games. It was a surprising suc­cess for Pittsburgh after losing outfielder Bobby Bonilla to free agency and trading pitcher John Smiley just before the start of the season for financial reasons. 

Leyland's regular-season suc­cess, however, was once again spoiled in the playoffs as the Pirates lost to the NL West champion for the third straight year. This time was particularly painful as Atlanta rallied for three runs in the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 7 to keep Leyland and the Pirates out of the World Series again. 
"A lot of people think that {Game 7) is going to be lasting and won't go away, but 1992 is going to be a good memory for me," Leyland said. ''I'm sad for our community and sad for the organization, but 1992 was a great year for the Pittsburgh Pirates. We won 96 games ­99 if you count the playoffs ­we came back from 3-1 down in the playoffs and we were ahead 2-0 in the ninth inning of Game 7. How could that be a bad year?" 
consideration alongside the Tampa Bay bid. 
"We are proud to deliver this amended, strengthened offer to National League president Bill White," Magowan said in a joint statement with Walter Shorenstein, a limited partner in his group. "The offer comes from a dedicated local group with outstanding credentials. We believe we have been re­sponsive to baseball's expressed concerns and we look forward 
Baseball's ownership commit­tee and executive council will debate the proposal and make a recommendation to owners. Although no major league meeting has been called, own­ers are leaning toward a Nov. 10 session in the Phoenix area. 
Magowan's group submitted its first proposal on Oct. 12 dur­ing a meeting in New York. 
HUDDLE 239-6901 283-2400 
page 15 

Nixon happy to be part of Braves' celebration 
ATLANTA (AP) -For Otis Nixon, it was the greatest. 
For some 26,254 Atlanta Braves fans who showed up to honor the two-time National League champions Tuesday at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, it, too, was great. 
But it was also very different from a year ago when 750,000 fans swarmed through down­town Atlanta to pay tribute to the Braves with a two-hour ticker tape parade after the home team captured its first NL title in 25 years. 
In 1991, the Braves soared from last place to the World Series, only to lose to the Min­nesota Twins in seven games. This year the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Braves in six games. 
"It was nothing like last year, but that was the first time," said Braves second baseman Mark Lemke after the one-hour "Grand Slam Salute" at the 50,000-seat stadium under a cloudy sky and temperature in the 70s. "But this was nice." 
It was more than nice for Nixon, who was suspended for drug-use in September of last year and missed the NL playoffs and World Series, spending his time in a rehabilitation center rather than with his teammates. 
"It's just a great feeling stand­ing here today. It's hard for me to put into words what this means," said Nixon. "I look back at the playoffs and World Series and that was a great feeling. Being here today, I have those same feelings." 
Last Octobe~ fans broke through police lines to the play­ers riding in convertibles along the 12-block parade route through downtown Atlanta. Several store windows were broken and police were criti­cized for a lack of crowd-con­trol. 
Tuesday, the crowd sat in as­signed seats and chanted and chopped as the players walked on a red carpet that stretched from the Braves' first base dugout to just beyond second base where a podium was set up. 
Pizza DeUvered Th Your Room! 
City officials, possibly fearing a repeat of last year, decided to keep the celebration controlled this time. Tickets were sold for $1 and parking also was $1. 
"There were too many people in a short span of real estate the last time. There wasn't enough room, but it was a dy­namite parade," said Braves manager Bobby Cox. 
"But this was a good idea," he said. "I think it's great. It shows how much the fans appreciate our players." 
"It was wilder last year, but it was the first time we had won the pennant," said Tom Hart, an Atlanta mortgage banker who took the afternoon off to attend. "This one is more or­ganized, but it's still great. There's just as much enthusi­asm as a year ago." 
"This year it's more of an ap­preciation for a great team in Atlanta. I'm proud of them," said Don Hodges of Duluth, a printer who took the day off. 
The festivities got under way with a team of four Army parachutists from Fort Benning landing in short right field. After several local high school bands marched and Toni Brax­ton sang the National Anthem, a five-minute video of the Braves' season was shown, bringing the roaring crowd to its feet. 
Then it was time to introduced the coaches and players. 
Francisco Cabrera, who won Game 7 of the NL playoffs against Pittsburgh with a ninth­inning single that sent the Braves into the World Series, received one of the loudest ovations from the crowd. 
Mayor Maynard Jackson pre­sented the Braves with a proclamation and Fulton County commissioner Michael Lomax gave the team a glass sculpture by Georgia artist Mordecai Etchison as the crowd chanted, "Sid, Sid, Sid." The sculpture shows Sid Bream barely sliding home safely with the winning run after Cabrera's hit. 
Bream, however, was a no­show. He had already left for his home in Pennsylvania. He was one of seven absent Braves. The others were Rafael Belliard, Damon Berryhill, Javier Lopez, David Nied, Jeff Reardon and Deion Sanders. 
General manager John Schuerholz, Cox, third baseman Terry Pendleton and pitcher Tom Glavine spoke briefly to 
"We almost did it in 1991. We almost did it in 1992, and I pledge to you today we will not quit until we get it done in 1993," Cox told the screaming 
~, ~~ ~~ ~" 0 I
#~~0 .ct'"'~ n y ,~~9/JS 50~ for '? &Beverages 
or a game of darts 
1 mile east of campus 

·. 
I 
l 
~ 
I I I I 
1 
~ 
--~-----~ ·---·---~------------~ 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, October 29, 1992 
... 
Courier, Edberg win in Stockholm 

STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) -Jim Courier, playing his first ATP Tour match in six weeks, beat fellow American Derrick Rostagno 6-1, 7-6 (7­
2) Wednesday in the Stockholm Open. 
Pete Sampras, seeded No. 3 behind Courier and U.S. Open champ Stefan Edberg, al<;o needed a second-set tiebreak before winning his second­round match over Todd Woodbridge of Australia 6-2, 7-6 (8-6). 
The winner of the Australian and French Open this year, Courier took a six­week break from the tour after losing the U.S. Open semifmals to Sampras. 
"I needed it because I've been playing a lot this year," said Courier, who helped the 
U.S. 
beat Sweden in the Davis Cup semifinals Sept. 25-27 in his only other outing since the 

U.S. 
Open. 


Courier, who spent 10 days hitting with his coach Jose Higueras in California before coming here, showed little rustiness as he overwhelmed Rostagno in the first set. 
McKay, Maclean help D~evils sink Whalers 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) ­Randy McKay scored 48 seconds into overtime and John MacLean scored his first two goals since the 1990-91 season as the New Jersey Devils beat the Hartford Whalers 4-3 on Wednesday. 
Scott Stevens passed just to the right of the net to McKay, who skated out, wheeled arottnd and fired a wrist shot past Frank Pietrangelo. 
Bill Guerin got the other Devils' score, his first regular­season goal. Steve Konroyd, Nick Kypreos and Patrick Poulin scored for the Whalers, who squandered a 40-save effort by Pietrangelo. 
The Devils appeared to have the game well in hand when they jumped to a 2-0 lead in the first period as they thoroughly outplayed the Whalers. But Hartford, which was 2-32-4 last season when falling two goals behind, tied the score 2-2 in the second period. 
MacLean, who scored 40 goals three straight seasons before missing all of last season with a knee injury, gave the Devils the 3-2 lead a minute into the third period s. 
Poulin tied the score for the Whalers, picking up the rebound of Robert Petrovicky's wrist shot and flipping a backhander past Craig Billington. 
Although it was one of the few Whalers home games not televised locally, only 8,207 fans attended -the sixth-smallest crowd in Hartford history. The Whalers are averaging only 9,360 fans a game, down 1,609 a game through the first five games of last season. 
MacLean, playing in his 556th game to tie Kirk Muller for second on the Devils career list, scored in the first period -his first goal since March 23, 1991 against Montreal. 
The Devils, second in the league on the power play, moved the puck around the Whalers' zone with four quick passes. Bobby Holik, a former Whaler, found Bruce Driver in the slot. Driver partially fanned on the shot, but MacLean spun away from former teammate Eric Weinrich and poked it past Pietrangelo. 
Guerin intercepted a pass from Weinrich right in front of the net and beat Pietrangelo gloveside with a wrist shot. 
The Whalers cut the lead to 2-1 on Konroyd's goal. Tim Kerr slipped a pass past Ken 
Daneyko and Konroyd fired it past Billington. Kyrpeos tied it up at 9:31 of 
the second period. 

Canadiens 4, Lightning 3 
MONTREAL -Brian Bellows scored two goals as the Montreal Canadiens stretched their unbeaten string to six games with a 4-3 win over the Tampa Bay Lightning on Wednesday night. 
Patrice Brisebois and Eric Desjardins also scored for Montreal (6-3-2), which moved one point ahead of Boston for the Adams Division lead. 
The Lightning closed within a goal of Montreal on third-period goals from Rob Ramage and Chris Kontos. 
Brian Bradley scored in the first period for Tampa Bay ( 4-6­1), which was coming off a 4-3 loss in Quebec on Tuesday night. 
Red Wings 4, Sharks 3 
DETROIT -San Jose's losing streak reached nine games as Nicklas Lidstrom's power-play goal at 13:47 of the third period broke a tie and lifted the Detroit Red Wings to a 4-3 victory over the Sharks. 
Lidstrom's first goal of the season, with David Bruce off for high-sticking Dino Ciccarelli, came from just inside the blue line. It beat Brian Hayward on the stick side, just under the crossbar. 
The Sharks (1-9-0) have lost every game since a 4-3 overtime victory over Winnipeg in their season opener. 
The Sharks also were 1-9-0 after 10 games last season and didn't earn their second victory until their 17th game, which 
ended a 13-game losing streak. 
Sabres 4, Maple Leafs 4 
TORONTO (AP) -Doug Badger scored with 46 seconds left in regulation to give the Buffalo Sabres a 4-4 tie with the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
The Buffalo defensman drifted in from the blue line to take a pass out of a corner from Dave Andreychuk and lift a drive inside the post and behind goaltender Felix Potvin. 
Alexander Mogilny scored twice and Brad May added a goal for Buffalo (5-3-1). Joe Sacco scored twice and Rob Pearson and Doug Gilmour once each for Toronto (5-3-2), which extended its unbeaten streak to four games, including three wins. 

scholarship players Ryan player of the year last season, the football uniforms. They also have become vogue over the Hoover and Keith Kurowski, will likely play guard for feature the baggy shorts that past few seasons.
Hoops 
who he said can play both MacLeod. 
guard spots. "His high school coach said
continued from page 20 
However, Hoover said he feels he's an excellent player," said more comfortable at the point, MacLeod. "I've watched him on 

7Day Deliv-~ry~
both have bulked up since last while Kurowski prefers the two­film, but it's difficult to judge 
Roses Flowers
March. Joe, who is listed at 236, guard slot. how good he'll be." said yesterday he is now up to Another addition to the Irish In addition to the vast change 
Balloons Plants 
240. This makes him only ten lineup will be freshman Bobby in personnel, the Irish will also 
Gift & Fruit Baskets 

pounds less than Tower was Taylor, who is currently starting be wearing different uniforms last season. for the Notre Dame football this season. The yellowish-gold 
Clocktower Square ( 219)2 7 7 ... 12910~0.~:~
MacLeod also talked about team. Taylor, who was the trim has been replaced with a 
51400 31 North \.~~
the roles of freshmen Texas class SA basketball shade that looks like the gold on 
South Bend, IN 46637 1)~ 0.~~ last and that we have to get fully it will help us in the 
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ stronger after facing that kind stretch run," Pendergast said. 
No[ good for Valentine's Day
Soccer 
of adversity." In fact, the two recent losses
continued from page 20 
may actually help the Irish as the season rolls on. "At least now we know what 
where things haven't gone our we have to work on, so we'veway," Berticelli said. "But I told turned this into as much of athe team that those things don't positive as possible and hope-

AssoCIATE VIcE PRESID[NT
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
UNIVERSITY RELATIONS

NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 
219/2J9.SI22

~N Esp~ ~~ 1; 
October 20, 1992 
To the Editor of the Observer:
i Spanish Mass ~ 
. As the major filming of the movie "Rudy" gets underway, may I rem1nd the Notre Dame community that some minor inconveniences will 
come with it.
domingo, 1 de Noviembre de 1992 
10:30 a.m. 

Members of the production company and others involved in the movie are very appreciative of the hospitality thus far extended
Breen-Phillips Chapel 

them, and they hope to make their own small contribution to the educational endeavor here, principally through liaison with the Department of Art, Art History and Design and the Department of 
Communication and Theater. 
Please understand, however, that some minor disruption of
Todos Estan lnvitados 
campus routine is inevitable. You may not be able to use a 
customary sidewalk on a given afternoon, or find a roadway briefly 
closed or a campus location temporarily off-limits. The producers
All Are Welcome 

are committed to keeping these to a minimum, but they ask your forbearance and patience in advance. 


5ponsorad by
(tMPUS 

~mpus Mln1stry 
Prima Vera Chorr
MINISTRY Celebrante 
Padre Tim Scully, C.S.C. 


Thursday, October 29, 1992 The Observer page 17 







_U_n_i\_'e_rs_it-=--y_o__f_N_o_t_re_IJ_a_m_e________ ~ 
john Macleod Head Men's Basketball Coach 

October 29, 1992 

Dear Notre Dane I Saint Mary's Community: 
This is an exciting time for all of us as the start of the basketball season is just a few weeks away. We are looking forward to continuing where we left off last year and hope all of our fans are too. The surge we made last year was partly due to the increased fan support from all of you. We have been working very hard during the off-season and are anxious to begin a new season. 
We have a tough and exciting home season ahead of us and we are certain that you will see some of the best basketblil in the nation right here on campus. Defending National Champion Duke, as well as perennial national powers Indiana and Kentucky, will be visitng the JACC this season. We also will be hosting top rivals Evansville, Marquette and Dayton. It certainly will be a season that you will not want to miss. 
During the off-season, several changes were made with you, the fan, in mind. First, we were thrilled with the student participation during last year's NIT tournament and have decided to make those seating arrangements permanent. This year, all student seats will be in the east end court near our bench (Sections 13, 14, 15, & 16) starting on the floor in the lower arena and extending up to the bleachers. What is even more exciting is that all student seats, regardless of location, are only $4.00 per game. So, the entire 11 game season can be purchased for just $44.00. Do not forget that this year's student ticket distribution will take place Monday, November 2 through Thursday, NovemberS from 9 AM to 6 PM at the JACC Gate 10 Box Office. 
We've also mad'! some off-season changes with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community in mind. 
The biggest change comes in the form of the "Fast Break" ticket package. This six-game package 
offers bleacher seats to six of the premier games this season and includes Indiana, Duke, and Kentucky. This option is available to all Irish basketball fans for only $60.00. 
Take a look at the photo included at the bottom of this letter. The photo was taken immediately after the Irish upset #l ranked North Carolina back in 1987 right here in the Joyce Center. This is what we hope the Joyce Center will look like again this year. While I can't make any promises about wins and losses, I can guarantee you EXCITEMENT, and hope to see all of you in the Joyce Center this season. 
Sincerely, 
~ ) ' .[.; 
\__\1\L \\~~x_A( 
Join MacLeod Men's Head Basketball Coach 






page 18 The Observer Thursday, October 29, 1992 
Flanner, Zahm favored in IH football SPORTS BRIEFS 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR come from behind 8-6 victory. won three in a row after drop­Sports Writer ping its first game. OC is led by Flanner (4-0) vs. linebacker/tight end Tom Pit­
The women's basketball team will hold an informational
The playoffs have finally ar­Carroll(2-2) stick who is capable of turning meeting for anyone interested in trying out on October 28 at 5rived for the final eight teams the tide of a game single-hand­
Planner, the number one seed p.m. at the basketball office. If unable to attend, call Sarah atin the interhall football league, edly. The offense is led by
from the Gold Division, plays 
239-5420. 

as the top four teams of each of quarterback Joel Wine and full­
. Carroll, the number four seed of the two divisions will play back Denny Morrisson, who mix 
the Blue Division, in an 
The men's basketball team will be holding walk-on tryouts on 
cross-sectional games for the a ball control power running
interesting matchup that pits 
November 1 and 2 at 7 p.m. in the JACC Arena. first time this season. game with opportune big plays. 
strength against finesse. A single elimination playoff 

RecSports is accepting entries for men's and women's format will decide which dorm running game and suffocating Keenan (3-1) vs. 
Planner relied on a power 
interhall basketball, grad/fac/staff basketball, club basketball, earns the right to call itself defense to go through the Cavanaugh (4-0) 
men's interhall and graduate hockey, and campus co-ree number one. 
wallyball.

season unbeaten, as Keenan, the third seed of the quarterback Tim Kusserow and Gold Division, also comes into 
SMC varsity basketball open gym will last only three more
Zahm(4-0) vs. tailback Mike Thompson led the the playoffs having won its last days on October 26, 27 and 29 from 8-10 p.m. Everyone is
Dillon (2-2) offense in a concentrated few games. Running backs 
strongly encouraged to attend.
Zahm, which emerged unde­ground attack. The Planner Dave Dettore and Brian Mur­feated from the Blue Division, defense was the key to its phy are the focus of Keenan's 
NO Ski Club/team will have a mandatory meeting on 
enters the playoffs as the top success, as it was able to stifle ball control offense, each ca­
November 3 in 127 Nieuwland at 8 p.m. Final payments for the seed from there and will com­teams as they neared the goal pable of breaking free for a 
Aspen trip will be taken at that time. Trips are still available so pete against Dillon, the fourth line, preventing good scoring long gain, while quarterback 
bring interested friends. If you have questions, call Chris Boone seed from the Gold Division. opportunities against itself. Matt Casey can come up with a 
at 273-2958. Zahm proved to be one of the Carroll is the antithesis of this key completion when the situa­most explosive teams in the style, using a quick-strike of­tion mandates it. Keenan's de­
NO Tae Kwon Do Club will be holding pretesting on October regular season, as its offense is fense to score against its oppo­fense is one of the league's 
29 in the Fencing Gym at 7:30p.m. If you have questions. call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797.
stacked with a variety of nents. Carroll is led by the strongest, anchored by Rich weapons. multi-purpose quarterback Jon Toohey. 
SMC Varsity Basketball tryouts begin November 1 at 3:30
The offense is led by Oleksyk, who is capable of Cavanaugh, the second seed p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Tryouts are open to allquarterback Chris Hammond, a keeping the ball himself or of the Blue Division because of interested participants.
threat to both run and pass. throwing to experienced wide­Zahm's better point total, is the His favorite target is Pete Couri, outs Anthony Laboe and Jack third of the unbeaten teams in The soccer final of the Grad/Faculty/Staff league will take 
who may be the most danger­Hay. the playoffs. Cavanaugh enters place November 1. Les Miz and Rehab of the MBA will play each 
ous offensive player in the with a lot of momentum, having 
other in the final. league, capable of breaking off Alumni (3-1) vs. ended the season with a huge big plays on either pass recep­Off-Campus (3-1) victory over Carroll. Nick 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold its weekly meeting tions or kick returns. Preservati is the backfield 
tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. All are welcome.
Alumni may be the wildcard Where Zahm breezed through workhorse of the offense, while Please call E.D. at 283-1276 with questions.
team of this draw, as it has cap­its schedule, Dillon arrived in the defense routinely kept the
italized on opportunisticthe playoffs by a more indirect team in the game with key goal 
chances to win its games. The route, as it was forced to beat line stands. 
Alumni offense has taken ad­Stanford in the last game of the 
vantage of big plays all year, as season to make the elite eight. 
receivers Patrick Bitter, Tyrone Unlike Zahm, Dillon does not 
Smoak, and Dan Morrison are have the firepower to blow 
all capable of long receptions opponents out, but rather close 
from quarterback Conrad games have been the hallmark 
Hansen. The Alumni defense of their season. 
has also made a living off big This may be an advantage in 
plays, relying on interceptionsthe playoffs, as Dillon showed 
to shift the momentum of the remarkable tenacity in its win 
game in its favor. over Stanford, coming back in 
Off-Campus also enters the the waning minutes to score a 
playoffs on a hot streak, having 

This man's daughter has a birthday today. She is--ND! 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM Friday, October 30 
Irish Hockey vs Defending National Champ Lake Superior State 7:00pm JACC 
"Welcome to the CCHA Party" ree party hats and cake sponsored by Centel Cellular 
23 Volleyball vs Evansville 
:30 pm JACC 

Saturday, October 31 
Irish Hockey vs Lake Superior State :OOpm JACC 
Students/Kids in costume get in free *--Grand prize for best costume ree candy for the first 1000 kids courtesy of Claey 's Candy 
23 Volleyball vs Butler :30 pm JACC 


Students/Kids in costume get in free -Grand prize for best costume *General admission only 
FREE MOVIE MARATHON OCTOBER 30, 1992 
Flnt 140 receive a free goolish goodie bag 
Ballroom (formally Theodores) LaFortune Student Center 
11:30pm  Halloween  
1:15am  Graveyard Shift  
3:00am  Friday The 13th  
4:45am  Nightmare On Elm Street  
6:30am  PetSematary  


Today 

Thursday, October 29, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES SUSIE, Do '{o~ Wf>.N.T 1b 

AI=IER Cl-\t..WI~G AL""OS\ 
$20 WoR.T\-1 OF G!Jt-.\, l''JE

TRII-.Ot: CAI'TF\IN N!\PALM 
IT 1'-\\JST BE D'CPR'CSSI~ 
BUBBLE. GVIV\ CARD'S ? 
COu.£CTED AI.L lWC. CA~s 
WI~ NO P\)R~YS£.
'C.XC£.1'\ l'l\JMBt.RS '0 AND 3~ 
I'LL TRADE '{OV AN~ l>IJPLI· 
I 
cr..I£ R>R t:11\-\t.R <:f-11-\<f.£. 




II. -­
page 19 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any 
Call Now 

other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. 
ND 

Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not 
penalized for late deliveries. 
© 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
SMC 
MENU 

Saint Mary's Notre Dame 
Witches' Brew Stew Stir-Fry Beef & Vegetables Macaroni & Cheese Homestyle Chicken Sandwich Teriayki Chicken Quarters Rotini with Spring Vegetables 
.LECTURES . 
Thursday 

3 to 5:30 p.m. Kroc Institute Symposium: "The Future o 
Peace and Security Studies in a Changing World." Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg In­stitute. 
4:15p.m. Lecture: "Privatization: Child of Failure or Success?" William Glade, University of Texas, Austin. C-103 Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 
4:15 p.m. History and Philosophy of Science Colloquium: "The Creation of Scientific Effects: Heinrich Hertz and Electrical Waves," Jed Buchwald, professor, Dibner Institute for History and Science, MIT. Room 131, Decio Hall. Sponsored by Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values. 
Friday 

12:15 p.m. Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns: "Successful Aging," Tom Mer Iuzzi and Cindy Bergeman. Room 124. Center for Social Concerns. (Brown bag or soup and bread for $1.} Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
CAMPUS Thursday 
7:30 p.m•. The African Video Series: "New Gods" and "Exploitation." Room 107. Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by African Student Association. 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Glee Club Fall Concert, Washington Hall. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Back out of a deal
1 "Tono-Bungay" 
29 Koln connective 

author 30 Queue after Q 
8 Oscar winner of 1953 32 Parasitic jaegers
15EI-, Egyptian battle 34 Bush, once town 36Demand 16 Malachi, e.g. payment 17 Locate 37 Dessert choice 
18 Grave 43 Romeo's last 19 Afts. act 20Director 46 Kind of art 
Spielberg 47 Eat one's words 22 Ending for an 49 Ref's stunning inchoative verb decision? 23 Stifled 
so Microscopic 25 Greens gimmie animal 26 Relative of 52 Gladiatorial Bambi venue 
55 Tevere tributary 
56"-Mucho" 
57 Sept.-June gp. 58 Sodded over 
60 Part of a tape recorder 
62 Crescent­shaped figure 
63 Cotton fabric 
64 Brasserie orders 
65 Alleviated distress 
DOWN 
1 Fasteners 2lnkling 3Tom and a Dr. 4 Grounded bird 5 Spot check? 6 Spoil the 
scenery 7Displayed 
disdain 8 Radar victim 9 Abadan's land 
10 Hide-hair connection 11 Sometime sleep phenomenon 120n-ofthe moment 13 Take back 14 Goes to 21 Caesarian section? 24Spud 


I 
25 Saudi Arabian 41 "Get Smart" oasis villains 
28 Ensured: Abbr. 42 Twines 54 Like male lions 44 Doubting Thomas
31 Extreme 
58 ­

45 Cassock noire 
33 Monogram pts. 
59 Fr. holy woman

48 Spanish-rice 35 Bar rocks ingredient 61 Wee, in Dundee 37 Sequin 
38 Tape-measure 

blast Get answers to any three clues 39 El'fective by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute).
40 Is agreeable 

1 
l 1
COMING ATTRACTIONS ~ 
THE BUTCHER '~'J WIFE THE ADDAMS FAMILY 
1 
SHOWING THURSDAY, C>CT. 29 SHOWING FRIDAY, OCT. 30 & 

l
SATURDAY, OCT. 31 
~ 
l
All movies are shown at 8:00p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. 
l 
Price of admission: $2.00 STIJDENT UNION BOARD 
_I 
-
Sports 
page 20 

BRIAN KUBICKI 
Playing Around 
Notre Dame could 
make the Big Ten 
more than mediocre 

This season the competition in the Big Ten has become mediocre-no, pitiful. The current race in the Big Ten is for second place. Most people, even some of the coaches, have conceded the championship to Michigan. 
Sadly, the race for second doesn't 

even seem worth following. Seven 
teams are tied for second at 2-2. 
Ohio State once held a consistent top­25 ranking, Iowa used to relish the role of spoiler and could pull off the big win with coach Hayden Fry's trick plays, and Michigan State is the last Big Ten team other than the Wolverines to win a Rose Bowl in the past five years. 
The Buckeyes who had climbed as high as 12th in the AP poll are now lost in the ranks of the average. The Hawkeyes have only managed a 3-5 record. The Spartans couldn't even gain vengeance over Central Michigan, as they lost to the nationally-obscure Chippewas for the second straight year. 
Penn State isn't joining the Big Ten a year too soon. But that doesn't make the idea of an eleven team conference any easier to swallow, and besides, one team isn't enough competition for Michigan. 
Notre Dame could provide the balance and competition that the Big Ten is currently lacking. 
Irish fans always complain that there is nothing left to play for if the football team loses one game early in the season and thus their national champi­onship hopes. Here is the second wind of a conference championship that some people have always suggested as a solution for this let down. 
The Big Ten is also regionally attractive for the Irish, as their schedule already contains four teams from the conference (five if you include Penn State). 
Scheduling in "The Big Twelve" could be handled smoothly by following the Southeastern Conference's example and splitting the conference into two six-team divisions. 
Under this system, teams would play eight conference games (the five division rivals and three teams from the other division) thus allowing room in their schedules for three non­conference games. The USC rivalry would continue. A championship game between the division winners would determine the conference champion. 
It all sounds good and simple, but there are some disadvantages for Notre Dame. Financial opportunities for the Irish would be limited by the burden of a conference. That's right, no more "Notre Dame Saturday". Currently, bowl opportunities would also be limited by joining the Big Ten which is still committed to the Rose Bowl. 
However, a sure chance at the national championship is a must for any Irish fan. If the Big Ten is willing to put aside the Rose Bowl, Notre Dame would benefit both itself and the Big Ten by becoming a part of the powerful Big Twelve Conference of the Midwest. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•IH football playoff preview 
see page 18 

•NHL roundup 
see page 16 

•Leyland Is NL Manager of the Year 
see page 15 
Thursday, October 29,1 992 

Alumni wins second straight IH soccer crown, 2-0 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 

In the wake of some tournament controversy, the men's interhall soccer championship game was played yesterday at Stepan. Alumni took home its second straight championship by defeating Carroll 2-0. 
Carroll appeared in the championship game only after semifinal winner Zahm A was declared ineligible by a RecSport protest board before fall break for using ineligible players. But with the controversy behind them, Alumni and Carroll did battle in an extremely physical game. 
"This was definitely one of the more physical games of the season," remarked Carroll captain Tony Yang. 
Despite being outshot 6-1 in the first half, Carroll denied excellent offensive play by Alumni's Greg Borkowski and Mark O'Neil thanks mainly to several remarkable saves by goalkeeper Mark Vives. And fifteen minutes into the game, a Carroll goal was called back when one referee cited an obstruction of Alumni goalkeeper Joe Finnerty. After a scoreless first half, Alumni was finally able to capitalize on two attacks in the second half. 
Eighteen minutes into the second half of play, Borkowski put a hard right­footed shot into the upper left corner of the net. And just two minutes later, senior midfielder Eric Horvath volleyed a shot off of the left goalpost and into the net to seal the victory for Alumni. 
Alumni finished the season unscored upon, moving confidently to an undefeated regular season and through the playoffs. 
"Experience is a big part of it," remarked team captain Volker Blankenstein, "we had a lot of senior leadership." 
Specifically, Blankenstein emphasized the great play of of seniors Tony Szweda and Jim Kuser on defense and senior midfielders Bill Farabaugh and Bill Blum. 
Alumni co-captains Blankenstein and Horvath also noted the importance of the Alumni students who supported the team all year long. In an effort to create a home field atmosphere for themselves, Alumni sponsored a pre-game cookout for Alumni fans. 
But Carroll more than held their own in the spectator department. A spirited group of Carroll students including the football team turned out to lend support to the talented Carroll squad. 
But it was not to be for Carroll this year as team captain Yang noted,"Alumni is an excellent team. They played a great game." 
A lot has changed for Irish hoops 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
John MacLeod sounded like a presidential candidate at yesterday's men's basketball media day. 
The second-year coach spent a lot of time talking about change. 
However, the changes with the Notre Dame basketball team have already happened. 
"We are a much different team," MacLeod said. "We have four new starters, a new assistant (Parker Laketa), new uniforms, a player coming back (Monty Williams), and two new freshmen (Ryan Hoover and Keith Kurowski)." 
MacLeod still plans to begin practice on Sunday with the same starting five reported in The Observer two weeks ago. 
Lamarr Justice and Brooks Boyer will have the arduous task of replacing the high-scoring backcourt of Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet. 
Boyer is looking forward to the challenge, and the junior feels he from his off-season training. 
"I played a lot against Elmer and Daimon this summer, and that helped me a lot defensively. You're not going to find too many guards as 
quick  as  Elmer  or  as  big  and  
physical  as  Daim on,"  Boyer  
explained.  

Offensively, MacLeod plans to continue the up-tempo style he implemented last year, but he also plans to make a few changes. 
The biggest of which is the Irish's use of the three-point shot. 
Men's soccer trying to regroup 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

After losing two of their last three games, the Notre Dame men's soccer team didn't practice on Tuesday. 
Instead, they had a two-hour team meeting to discuss how to regroup before the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament, which begins next week in Indianapolis. 
Demoralizing losses to Vanderbilt and Loyola left the team searching for answers as they head into the final stretch of the regular season, and they may have found some of those answers at Tuesday's meeting. 
"We talked about the things we need to do as a team to avoid the little breakdowns that cost us games," senior Kevin Pendergast said. "We have been playing hard, but we have to combine that intensity with more consistency on the field." 
They will have an opportunity to do that tonight against Butler in their final conference game of the season. 
The Bulldogs come into the game 7-6­1 overall and 2-3 in the MCC, while the Irish are 8-6-1 overall and 4-2 in the MCC. Tonight's game will be important in determining Notre Dame's seed in the post-season conference tournament, but they don't consider it a must-win game. 
"We play every game to win, but the tournament has to be our focus," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. 
The tournament looms closer everyday. With only tonight's game and Monday night's season finale at Alumni Field remaining in the regular season, the Irish are hoping that a break or two will fall their way as they head into the post-season. 
"It has been one of those seasons see SOCCER/page 16 
"I hope to shoot more threes and have a better percentage from there," MacLeod commented. 
This philosophy is fine with Boyer, who will serve as captain along with Carl Cozen and Billy Taylor. 
"I love the idea," Boyer said with a smile. "I worked on my shot over the summer, and I concentrated on the three. Not only the stationary shot, but off the catch and off the dribble as well." 
Up front the Irish return their lone starter in Taylor, who will team with Monty Williams and Joe Ross in the projected lineup. 
Williams and Ross will have to step in for the graduated LaPhonso Ellis and Keith Tower. 
"We are a small team compared to last year," MacLeod said. ''I'm concerned with our ability to keep people off the boards. We can't run without the ball. We need to do a good job on our defensive rebounds." 
Williams (6'7", 207) weighs thirty pounds Jess than Ellis was last year, but showed a Jot of potential as a freshman in 1989-90 when he aver­aged 7.7 points and 3.7 rebounds per game. 
''I'm excited about Monty, and he is going to bring leadership to the team," MacLeod said. "My concern is that after two years away from competition, he will have trouble get­ting back in the flow. 
"I know how he wants to react, but I don't know how he will react." Ross, along with twin brother Jon, was outmuscled a lot last season, but see HOOPS/page 16 










