


NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 
r  .  
VOL. XXIV NO. 112  'wt:;ofllr sz, kV  ·  THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1992  
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S  

ND Law School ranked twentieth in magazine survey 
PlecemenlThe TOP 20 Lew Schools Rank by lawyers/ selectJvJty Resource 
ReputetJon Rep. Rank by Student Facuity Success 
Rank
rank Renk
Acedem1cs Judges
Overall Score 
3
1. YALE UNIVERSITY 100.0 2 
6

2. HARVARD UN IVERS lTV 2 5
94.9 1 
5

3. STANFORD UNIVERSITY 4 3
93.6 3 
2

4. UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 3 2
92.8 7 
4

5. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 5 7 8
90.0 
11

6. UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 4 8 22
87.7 
1

7. NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 9 5 4
86.4 11 
10

8. UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 9 6 10 31
85.0 
8

9. DUKE UNIVERSITY (N.C.) 14 9 9 12
83.7 
7

10. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 7 12 15
82.2 10 
18

11. GEORGETOWN UN IVERS lTV (D.C.) 15 8 14 17
81.4 
9

12. U of CALIFORNIA @>BERKELEY 7 12 6 11
8 1.2 
14

13. NORTHWESTERN UN IVERS lTV 9 13 11 6
80.2 
13

14. CORNELL UNIVERSITY 9 16 10
77.2 15 
26

15. UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 9 14 17 71
73.0 
12

16. VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (TENN) 17 16 15 16
7 1.2 
16

17 U of CALIFORNIA@> LOS ANGELES 15 18 13 24
70.2 
15

18. usc 20 23 7
67.5 32 
25

19. U of CAL I FORN lA --HASTINGS 20 17 37 27
66.2 
19

20. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-20 44
64.3 35 19 
By PAUL PEARSON selectivity, resources and Associate News Editor placement success, McLean said. 
The Notre Dame Law School Yale University was once rates 20th in the latest U.S. again named the top-ranking News & World Report survey of law school in the U.S. News & the best graduate schools in the World Report survey, followed United States, which appears in by Harvard and Stanford Uni­this week's issue of the versities, the University of magazine. Chicago, Columbia University 
Up from 24th last year, Notre and the University of Michigan. Dame made the biggest jump of Notre Dame received an any school in the list of top 25 overall score of 64.3 out of a law schools. possible 100 points in the sur­
Associate Dean William vey. 
McLean said he was not sur­McLean believes that, while it prised by the survey's results. has always been a superb "We meet all the criteria that teaching institution, the Notre they are looking for." Dame Law School has recently 
The survey ranked 175 law had more of an impact on the schools on the basis of two country's legal educational sys­surveys of deans, professors, tem. lawyers, judges and bar associ­ation presidents, as well as "Over time, that has gained statistics II.leasuring student us national attention," he said. 

Clinton, Bush get strong su 
1nois and Michigan primaries 
CHICAGO (AP) -Gov. Bill Buchanan said the conservative diminishing somewhat. said Buchanan would announce Clinton swept to twin victories challenger was planning to Michigan returns from 26 on Wednesday that he would Tuesday in Michigan and Illinois scale back his campaign to percent of the precincts gave scale back his campaign to primaries, moving forcefully to concentrate on the California Clinton 44 percent, Brown 30, focus on the California primary. cement his domination of the primary, June 2. Tsongas 19. In Illinois, with 12 ABC, citing the exit polls, Democratic presidential race. Democrats Paul Tsongas and percent reporting, Clinton had showed Clinton running strong President Bush won big, as Jerry Brown vowed to continue 45 percent, Tsongas 31 percent among two key groups, blacks 
their battle with Clinton and and Brown 16. in Illinois and blue collar 
• Elections by party I page 8 shifted their efforts on Tuesday In the Michigan GOP primary, workers in Michigan. The night to upcoming states -where Buchanan had made his network said Brown was Tsongas in Connecticut, Brown stand, Bush had 67 percent of running slightly behind Clinton in Wisconsin. the vote, Buchanan 26 percent. among Michigan's union
well, and sa1d his nommahon IS 

Tsongas was gracious in In Illinois, Bush had 78 percent workers, but well ahead of"virtually assured." 
defeat, congratulating the and Buchanan 21 percent. Tsongas.
Proclaiming victory at an 

Arkansas governor and saying, Bush said his double victories ABC's exit polls showed
evening rally here, Clinton 

"the fact is he went into two "pushed the delegate count to a Clinton favored by 7 5 percent of 
sounded an anti-Washington 

large states and did well." level where my nomination is black voters, compared with 8theme, saying, "I ask you to Albert Hofeld. 
The television networks said virtually assured," and added in percent for Brown and 7
remember what the people 
If she were to defeat Dixon

Illinois Sen. Alan Dixon trailed a written statement, "I will seek percent for Tsongas. Amonghave voted for. They have voted 
and Hofeld, Braun would be

in early returns in his race for the support of everyone who blue-collar voters, Clinton andfor change. They have voted to 
bidding in November to become

Democratic renomination. believes that we can change Brown ran nearly even, with 47 go beyond the politics of both 
the first black woman and first

Dixon was facing a stiff America as we changed the percent favoring Clinton, 42
parties in Washington." 
black Democrat ever elected to

challenge from Carol Moseley world." percent favoring Brown and 6
His landslide victories ran 
the Senate. 

Braun, the Cook County A Buchanan adviser, speaking percent for Tsongas. 
Bush's primary streak to 16 and 
Early returns indicated the

recorder of deeds, and attorney on the condition of anonymity, NBC said exit polls showed
0 and an aide to Patrick 
anti-Bush protest vote was 


Explosion destroys Israeli embassy in Argentina, killing at least ten people 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) -An explosion destroyed the Israeli Embassy near down­town Buenos Aires on Tuesday. At least 10 people were killed, including some children, and more than 105 people were in­jured. 
• Bush on loan guarantees I page 3 
About 30 people were trapped in the rubble, the government news agency Telam quoted po­lice sources as saying. Up to 150 Israelis were reportedly in the building at the time of the explosion. 
President Carlos Menem called the blast a "terrorist at­tack," but did not offer evidence or elaborate. He had earlier suggested Nazis or right-wing military units could have been responsible. 
In Jerusalem, Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy said the explosion was caused by a car bomb. He did not indicate who he believed set the bomb, and there was no immediate claim of responsibility. 
The explosion reduced the central section of the five-story embassy to a pile of cement, wooden beams and debris. Res­cue workers picked through the rubble with their hands, prying up boards and tossing chunks of cement from the wreckage. 
Menem said the dead include two police officers and three children, possibly from a pri­mary school across the street from the embassy. Menem, speaking on national TV, did not give details on the other deaths. 
Earlier, Mayor Carlos Grosso said the bodies of two people had been found in a building near the embassy, and officials at the Fernandez Hospital said a third person who was at the embassy had died of a heart at­tack. 
Israeli radio said Argentine Foreign Minister Guido di Tella told his Israeli counterpart that four people -apparently Ar­gentines working for the local electric company -had been killed. 
Grosso also said at least 106 were injured, "but it's believed there are more." 
Menem had speculated the blast could be the work of "what remains of Nazism and fundamentalist groups that have been defeated in Ar­gentina." In Argentina, the term "fundamentalists" usually refers to right-wing military of­fleers. 
In Washington, Israeli De­fense Minister Moshe Arens called the bombing a terrorist attack by people "whose inten­tion is to kill Jews whether they are in Israel or abroad." 
A plume of thick black smoke rose several hundred feet as crews passed stretchers, oxygen tanks and fire hoses hand-over­hand to rescuers standing atop the rubble. 
The injured included students from the primary school, radio stations reported. The 3 p.m. (1 
p.m. EST) explosion, heard more than three miles away, also damaged a nearby Roman Catholic Church. 
"I never saw death so close," said Dr. Ricardo Rosado, who operates a medical clinic a block away from the embassy. 
Added Oscar Caudo, an em­ployee in a pharmacy near the embassy who was tending to a woman and her baby when the blast occurred: "We all flew clear across the room." 
Every window on the corner of a 26-story apartment build­ing a block from the embassy was blown out. 
see EMBASSY/ page 4 
Local United Way unhurt by national problems 
ganization and local deci­sions are made for the
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
spending of funds which lo­News Writer cal businesses and individu­als donate, he said. 
The recent resignation of "Until we get a full reportthe national president of the from the national headquar­United Way will not affect ters, we are withholding the the local chapter of the one percent payment of United Way serving St. dues," said Beauchamp.Joseph County, according to Usually one percent of the Fr. William Beauchamp, ex­total amount of money col­ecutive vice president of lected by the local United Notre Dame and Chairman Way is paid in dues to the of the Board for the St. national organization in re­Joseph County United Way. turn for local advertising and training programs, he Although there have been said. "I want to see where 
recent allegations of mis­the $35, 000 goes and if it's management of funds at the money well spent," said national United Way, Beauchamp.Beauchamp said all United Way organizations on the We have been serving St. local level are fully indepen­Joseph County for 77 years,dent. he said, "Hopefully this 
event won't result in fewer 
"All the money used in St. donations to the local Joe County is used the way chapter of the United Way." we decide to use it, indepen­Beauchamp said, "The 
dent of the way the United charities of the St. Joe's Way uses it in Chicago or United Way will not be anywhere else," said affected unless the peopleBeauchamp. Community mistakenly tie the two 
volunteers supervise the or-together." 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

South Bend is 
better than 


down south 

Welcome back. Darners! 
As spring break is over 
now, there have been some 
typical conversations 
overheard 'round campus. 
"Hey (Domer), how was 
your break?" 
"Well, it wasn't too bad. tlf///!!!5. 
The cloud cover kind was ~ 
kind of intrusive, so I didn't 
really get the base I Rich Szabo 


wanted, but the baby oil Associate Sports 
sorta made up for it. I look Editor 
good, don't I?" 
Okay, so not everyone comes back bronzed, but such is life. It is amazing to see how many people wear clothes that they normally wouldn't wear in this type of weather, just to accentuate that tan. Who really cares if you're uncomfortable, right? If you've got it, flaunt it. 
Well, for all you people already planning next 
year's escape, I've got a tip on a hot new resort 
for you. Forget Cancun, Padre and the 
Bahamas. Bermuda is boring, and frankly, 
Daytona is just passe. 
You're just dying to know what this place is aren't you. I can sense the excitement, and I can almost make out the smell of coconut oil. Well let me tell you of a place so exotic, so far removed from civilization that you'll swear off Club Med forever. 
This dreamy place is very secluded. Only a few of the more fortunate people, those who didn't want to or couldn't go elsewhere or had some ungodly test to study for, like the MCATS or the CPA exam, get to stay. 
The hotels are spacious, you may even get your own sink. While the rooms are not furnished lavishly -a bed, desk, and wardrobe are the bare minimum -you can spruce it up to your likings. Some of the classier rooms have lush carpets, a TV. stereo, and maybe a loft. 
There are numerous dorms, I mean hotels, to stay at. All the views are wonderful, and the weather, well, I just can't say enough about the weather. 60s and sunny one day, snow the rest of the week with temps plummeting into the low 20s. 
If you're really lucky, you may even get a hotel with heat for the week, although that's not a guarantee. There are some very nice restaurants in the area, that part is true, or you can cook for yourself. Either way, the food is at least comparable to what you may get when school is in session. 
For recreation, well there you may be hurting a little bit. The golf course is usually frozen this time of year, and most outdoor sports are nixed. However, if you like to sit back with a cold beverage and be slothful, then you've come to the right place. 
And, should you have to study over break, there is this lovely little spot known affec­tionately as the 'Brare, where you can kick back and work efficiently, with no distractions, even on second floor. Why, you can even streak if you want to, and no one would really care. 
So there it is. folks. Forget about going south. Why lay out for fun in the sun when you can sit and get old where it's cold. Nope, beautiful Chez NO, located right in South Bend, is the place to be. Make your reservations now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Production Sandy Weigand Lisa Bourdon Sarah Doran Stephanie Goldman Sports Systems George Dohrmann Mike Murphy Accent VIewpoint Mara Davis J. Brian Stalter Amy Hardgrove Cheryl Moser Patrick Moran lab Tech. Graphics Sean Farnan Beth Duane 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday, March 18, 1992 
FORECAST: Partly cloudy and 
colder today with 
low of 25 and a 40 
percent chance of 
snow late in the 
day. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City Amarillo Anchorage Birmingham Bogota Boise Brownsville Burlington. VI. Cairo Charlono, N.C. Chicago Denver Oharan Flagstaff Havana Indianapolis Kiev Las Vegas Lima Oslo 
Salt Lake Cny 
an Antonio San Diogo San Francisco South Bend 
H L 
79 50 42 21 
63 4t 
72 45 49 36 75 69 25 18 73 52 53 35 47 38 65 33 
70 59 
55 29 n 64 50 40 34 23 71 49 84 71 39 30 63 39 73 62 66 57 72 52 43 36 
Taipei 70 59
p-. 


Topeka 73 48

§ Washington, D.C. 38 28
H L. 
Warsaw 34 21 

HIGH LOIW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORt.fS FLURRES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAl' AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Swedes protest arrival of professor 
• STOCK.iOLM, Sweden -Elderly Jews and young neo-Nazis held counter-demonstrations Tuesday during the arrival! of a French professor who claims the Holocaust did not take place. Robert Faurisson was briefly questioned by police at Arlanda International Airport before being allowed to enter the country. Swedish students shouted at neo-Nazis at the airport, and about 200 elderly Jews protested outside Parliament. located in central Stockholm. Ahmed Rami, who heads a.n Islamic radio station that has been fined for spreading anti-Semitic propaganda, invited Fauris­son to address several meetings in Sweden. 
NATIONAIL 

Helmsle~· sentencing approaches 
OF INTERES'f 

• The film "1" Dry White Season" will be showing at 7 
p.m. in Room 120 of the Law School as part of the "See No Evil" Film Festival. It will be followed by a panel dis­cussion with Julius Oosthuizen, Lisa Bosman and Garth Meintjes. 
• Catholic Volunteers in Florida will hold a video presentation tonight at 7 p.m. at the CSC. Seniors 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 18 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 230,363,570 226.01 1? 1.57 S&P COMPOSITE 409.58 4} 3.19 DOW JONES fNDUSTRIALS 3,256.04 {} 19.68 
PRECIOUS METALS 

$ 3.40 to $343.30/oz. SILVER 'f 3.7¢ to $4.06oz. 


• TOLE 0, hio -A developer acknowledges that many people might laugh at his attempt to get Walt Disney Co. to build a theme park in northwest Ohio, but says he is serious about the proposal. Brian McMahon said the opening of Disney theme parks in Paris and Tokyo has convinced him that Disneyland Ohio could become a reality. "We're not Paris or Tokyo. We're not glamorous. But Toledo is the capital of the average American family. The park would be accessible so the average American family can drive there. It would be a huge success," McMahon said. He said he has sent a brochure outlining his proposal to Michael Eisner. Disney chairman. 
CAMPUS 

NO student glaces well in contest 
• NOTRE DAME -Rudi Zipter, a first-year MBA student from Schaumburg, Ill., placed 31st out of more than 12,500 participants in the nationwide AT&T Col­legiate Investment Challenge. The contest, which began November 1 and ended February 28, gave students an imaginary $500,000 portfolio with which to buy, sell or sell short any exchange-listed stock. Zipter's portfolio at the end of the contest was valued at $1.1 million. "This is the first time I've ever taken part in this kind of competition," Zipter said. "If that had been with real money, I'd be very happy." 
interested in at least one year of volunteer service is en­couraged to attend. 
• Sesquicentennial Student Week will commence with the Ice Cream Olympics tonight in South Dining Hall from 10 p.m. until 12 a.m. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1913: Greek King George I was killed by an assassin. 

• 
In 1931: New York City Mayor James "Jimmy" was charged with inefficiency, neglect and incompetency. {President Franklin Roosevelt later dismissed the charges.) 

• 
In 1953: An earthquake in Turkey killed 1 ,000 and left 50,000 homeless. 

• 
In 1962: French and Algerian officials signed a truce ending their war. 

• 
In 1979: In the largest bust in U.S. history, 20 tons of hashish was seized. 

• 
In 1987: A Gerber survey found that the most popular names for newborns are Jessica and Matthew. 


Wednesday Marcn 1B, 199~ 1ne uoserver 
Bush rejects Israeli loan plan Offers alternative linked to settlement 
WASHINGTON {AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Tuesday rejected a congressional compromise on loan guarantees to Israel, ef­fectively denying Israel the fi­nancial backing it needs to re­settle Soviet immigrants, key lawmakers said. 
Bush told the lawmakers he would veto their proposal if it reached his desk, while offering an alternative linked to a halt in settlement construction on the West Bank and Gaza. Israel has said it will not suspend construction, even if it means looking elsewhere for financial backing. 
''I'm frankly very, very disap­pointed," Sen. Patrick Leahy, D­Vt., said after meeting with Bush to discuss the proposed deal. "This language is not ac­ceptable to the president." 
Israel had requested $10 bil­lion in loan guarantees over five years to help resettle some 400,000 refugees from the former Soviet Union and Ethiopia. 
Bush met with lawmakers after saying that Israel settle­ments in disputed territories violated Washington's "longstanding policy that feels that settlements are counter­productive to peace." 
"We have close, historic rela­tions with Israel and they will always be that way. But we have a difference now, it ap­pears, in terms of these settle­ments," Bush said. "The door is open," he said, but "U.S. policy must be accommodated." 
The congressional proposal would give Israel around $800 million in loan guarantees im­mediately without linking them to a settlement freeze. It would give Bush authority to provide the rest of the guarantees if Is­rael restricted its settlement activity in the West Bank and Gaza. Congress would have the right to override a cutoff or suspension by a two-thirds vote. 
Bush's counterproposal would put Israel on a much shorter lease. 
It would provide $300 million in the first phase. "After that, the president retains full dis­cretion to issue or not to issue the guarantees," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. 
"The president would have the discretion at any time to stop the funding or to not pro-


0

METIIL • JIIZZ o GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC o SIIOW TUNES 
0 
SOUNDIRIICKS ° CLIISSICIIL o RIIP o INSPI111\TIONIIL o COMEDY o EXERCISE MUSIC • CHILDREN'S o BLUES o COUNTRY o POP o EIISY LISTENING ° COMEDY • REGGAE o IMPORTS o BLUEGRASS o HE/IVY MET/II. 0 flOCK 0 SOUL • JIIZ:Z: o GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC o SHOW TUNES 
0 
SOUtWTRIICKS o CLIISSICIIL o 11/\P o INSPif1/\TIONIIL o COMEDY o EXEIICISE MUSIC o CHILIJREN"S o BLUES o COUNTRY o POP o EIISY LISTENING ° COMEDY o REGG/\Eo IMPORTS o BLUEGRASS o HEAVY MET/II. 0 flOCK 0 SOUL o JAZZ o GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC • SHOW TUNES 
0 
SOUtHJiflACKS ° CLIISSICAI. • RAP o INSPIRATIONIIL o COMEDY o EXEflCISE .MUSIC • ClllllJRf:N"S o BLUES o COUNTRY o POP o EIISY IISIENHIU • COMEDY o REGGAE• IMPORTS o OI.UEGRASS o IIFAVY METAL flOCK SOUL • .JAZZ o GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC o SIIOW !liNES
0 0 
A 

MEMORIAL MASS 
in honor of 

Colleen Hipp 

be celebrated at the Basilica ofthe Sacred R 
Friday, March 20 at 5:00 p.m. 
Fr. Edward A Malloy, C.S.C., presider Fr. Terry Coonan, C.S.C., homilist 
all are most welcome to attend 
IMI 
(?MPUS
MNISTRY 
vide more funding if there is a violation of U.S. policy." 
The White House said it was not slamming the door on a compromise. "We feel we do have a strong commitment and responsibility to the Russian immigrants and others who are moving into Israel," Fitzwater said. "We don't think the issue itself is dead. We'll continue to work with the Congress on the guarantee issue." 
Israeli and U.S. officials insist relations remain strong despite sharp differences over the guarantees and Jewish settle­ments in territories Israel cap­tured in the 1967 Six Day War. Bilateral troubles have been compounded by recent reports, denied by Israel, that Israel has illegally transferred U.S. weapons technology to third countries. 
Asked if there were any fur­ther hope of compromise, Leahy, chairman of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee responsible for foreign aid, said "I don't know. Frankly I don't know." 


Bringing in the spring The Observer Jake Peters 
The Notre Dame Concert Band performed at its annual spring concert last night in the J.A.C.C. The performance was the finale of its 1992 spring tour. 
South Africans vote on referendum 
JOHANNESBURG, South and his reforms, but exit polling Africa (AP) -South African was banned and the final whites, bitterly divided over results were not expected until sharing power with blacks, Wednesday evening. turned out in huge numbers De Klerk, who has abolished Tuesday for a referendum on major apartheid laws, needs a ending centuries of racial dom­victory to push ahead with his ination. last and most important reform: 
Most analysts forecast a vic­a new constitution extending tory for President F.W. de Klerk full political rights to the 30 
Finance Club Meeting Thursday, March 19 7:00p.m. Room 222 Hayes-Healy 
Questions? Call Scott at 289-6642 
THE CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
PRESENTS "SEE NO EVIL": A FILM FESTIVAL 
WED. MARCH 18, "A DRY WHITE SEASON", FOLLWED BY A PANEL DISCUSSION BY JULIUS OOSTHUIZEN, LISA BOSMAN AND GARTH MEINT JES 
THURS. MARCH 19, "FOURTEEN DAYS IN MAY", FOLLOWED BY A PRESENTATION BY ALICE MILLER, DIRECTOR OF AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL'S USA DEATH PENALTY CAMPAIGN. 
FRI. MARCH 20, "MISSING", FOLLWED BY A PANEL DISCUSSION BY CHRISTIAN CORREA, PEDRO AYLWIN AND TOMAS VIAL 
7:00P.M. ROOM 120 THE LAW SCHOOL 
million black majority. 
The president, smiling and looking confident, said he was optimistic. "I'm full of enthusi­asm," he said after voting in Pretoria. 
Election officials reported a surge of voters shortly before polls were due to close at 9 p.m., and voting was extended at some stations. Several sta­tions nearly ran out of ballots, and many reported at least 80 percent turnout. 
"Never in 40 years have I seen people vote like this," said Zach de Beer, leader of the Democratic Party, which sup­ports the referendum. 
If the referendum fails, de Klerk has promised to resign, clearing the way for a whites­only general election. Pro­apartheid parties would be fa­vored to win an election if de Klerk is defeated. 
The heavy turnout was ex­pected to favor de Klerk, since voter apathy in the past has been attributed mainly to English-speakers who tend to be more liberal than Afrikaans­speaking whites. 
Analysts said many white vot­ers were undecided and were likely to decide the outcome. Private poll-takers reported many whites were refusing to say how they would vote, adding to the doubt. 
Liberal whites, who have tra­ditionally opposed the govern­ment, provided de Klerk with a key block of votes, though some were less than enthusiastic. 
Helen Joseph, a wheelchair­bound, 85-year-old anti­apartheid activist under virtual house arrest for years, carried a poster to her polling station that read, ''I'm Voting For Ne­gotiations-Not F.W." 

EXPWRE THE PHYSICAL. 
BIOLOGICAL, & SOClAL SCIENCES 
With Low·Cost Educational Software For IBM PC® & Compatible Computers. 
MUSic & Gardening Software Also Available 

------------------------~---~~-----~~---~­
page 4 1he Observer 


Irish gays, barred from main event, stage mini-parade in New York City 
NEW YORK (AP) -The na­tion's oldest celebration of Irish heritage became a politicians' referendum on gay rights Tuesday, as officials chose sides between two separate St. Patrick's Day parades up Fifth Avenue. 
About 150.000 people marched in the official parade, the 231st. watched by hundreds of thousands of people. Earlier, an Irish gay group that was barred from the main event staged a mini-parade that was punctuated with chants of "We're Here. We're Queer. We're Irish. Get Used to It." 
There was no trouble -pos­sibly because of a beefed-up police detail along the route ­but plenty of sniping. 
"This issue has been grafted onto the parade," complained John Dearie, a state legislator. "It's made the side show the main show." 
The rival marchers looked much the same. with green scarves, red cheeks and ban­ners proclaiming "England Out of Ireland." 
But while signs in the official event mostly introduced Irish county societies, high school bands, Gaelic music, language and dancing groups, the protesters' signs had different messages, such as "No Gay Irish Need Apply." "We're here, we're queer, and so are a lc1t of you!" the gay contingent shouted to marchers from the police Emerald Society and Holy Name Society. When bagpipers in kilts walked past, they 
.screamed, "We love men in skirts!" 
A federal judge ruled Monday that the parade organizers could exclude a delegation of gay Irish-Americans, setting the stage for the division of offidal New York into three camps: those who marched in the official parade, those who marched in the gay parade, and those who sat the day out. 
Former Mayor Edward Koch and Sen. Alfonse D'Amato joined the main parade; state Attorney General Robert Abrams and City Comptroller Liz Holtzman marched with the 1,000 homosexual supporters; and Mayor David Dinkins and Gov. Mario Cuomo stayed away. 
"It's a fun day and it shouldn't be one of demonstration and protest." said D'Amato, whose re-election opponents include Holtzman and Abrams. 

Dinkins, who had urged pa­rade organizers to admit the gay delegation, told a gathering at his residence that "it hurts that these young men and women are to be rejected and excluded ... just because of whom they love." 
Cuomo said he was staying in Albany to work on the state budget. but expressed regret "that the parade is now being defined by its sponsors as a re­ligious statement that must ex­clude lesbians and gay men." 
Defending his choice, Koch said he did not think the Ku Klux Klan would be allowed to march in the Martin Luther King Day parade, or the Pales­tine Liberation Organization in the Israeli Day parade. 
Most of the hundreds of thousands of spectators were not on the parade route when the green-clad members of the Irish Le!'j_bian and Gay Organi­zation stepped off shortly after 10 a.m. 
They wore green maps of Ireland with pink triangles su­perimposed on them. "Lesbian, Irish and proud" read one of their signs. Another said: "My Irish Eyes are Bright and Gay, But They're not Smiling." 
weanesaay March 1ti, 1!::!!::!~ 


East Chicago teachers served contempt charges 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. (AP)­School officials filed contempt charges Tuesday against 68 striking teachers and also an­nounced they wouldn't negoti­ate until the teachers went back to work. 
Five officers of East Chicago Teachers Local 511 and 63 teachers face the charges for failing to administer the Indi­ana Statewide Testing for Edu­cational Progress last week. 
··we will ask the judge to ex­amine each of these teachers and ask the teachers why they've defied his order." said school board attorney Richard Lesniak. "By not appearing in school, they've harmed the stu­dents." 
"It could be that we're legally wrong," said Victoria Cande­laria. president of Local 511. "But there's no question that we're morally right. We knew they were more interested in punishing teachers than helping children." 
The teachers will answer the contempt charges at a hearing Friday in Lake SupHrior Court. Lesniak said the penalties for contempt could include a prison sentence of up to 90 days or fines of up to $500 per teacher. 
A hearing on the school sys­tem's request for a preliminary injunction against the striking teachers will be held the same morning in Judge James Richards' court. 
Earlier Tuesday, striking teachers called for the dis­missal of the chief negotiator for the East Chicago school board, saying he has blocked a settlement. 
Teachers claimed that East Chicago attorney Thomas S. Cappas has a vested interest in retaining political patronage jobs in the schools at the ex­pense of students and teachers. 
"The casualties of his private agenda are textbooks. teaching supplies, equipment and teach­ers' salaries," the union said in a statement. 
Cappas, who is sometimes called the "other mayor," is believed to control the East Chicago school system and its administrators, said Halph My­ers of the Indiana Federation of Teachers. 
Cappas' brother-in-law is City Councilman Frank Kollintzas, who is one of the four athletk directors working for the schools. 





Transplants may lead to genetic disorder treatment 
RENO. Nev. (AP) -Re­searchers successfully trans­plantnd adult human bone mar­row cells into a sheep embryo and say their work may pave thn way for treating human fe­tuses to correct debilitating or fatal genetic disorders. 

Dr. Esmail D. Zanjani of the Veterans Administration Medi­cal Center in Reno and Drs. Edward F. Srour and Ronald Hoffman at the Indiana Univer­sity School of Medicine in Indi­anapolis reported their results in "Blood," the journal of the 

Embassy 

continued from page 1 
Nelly Socas was having a cup of coffee at a shop two blocks away. "The windows shook and some of them broke. It was like an earthquake," she said. 
Dozens of ambulances and fire trucks sped to the area. Several people were loaded into automobiles and taken to nearby hospitals. 
Firemen extinguished burning automobiles in front of the de­stroyed building. 
An estimated 250,000 Jews live 
American Society of Hematol­
ogy. 
"In terms of significance. this probably is the most interesting finding that has been made re­cently because it is in a lar;ge animal model," Zanjani said Monday. Previous experiments have been restricted to mice. 
The treated sheep. now more than a year old, is producing human blood cells as well as sheep cells. Similar transplants into human embryos could en­able their bodies to fend off sickle cell anemia, severe com-
in this city of 10 million -the largest Jewish population of any Latin American city. It also has a large German population, many of whom came to this country after World War II. The city has a small Arab population. 
The blast was the second to target Israeli diplomats this month. 
On Saturday in Ankara. Turkey, an Israeli diplomat was killed and three people were wounded in a car bombing. 
Nili Chaminsky, daughter of Israeli Ambassador Yitzhak Shefi, told Israel television that 

bined immunodeficiency and 
other blood and metabolic dis­
eases. 

Researchers including Zanjani 
have previously implanted cells 
from miscarried fetuses into 
human embryos in efforts to 
reverse genetic disorders. 
But the success with adult donor cells is important be­cause the Bush administration prohibits federal funding for transplants of fetal tissue and has threatened to veto a Senate bill that would lift the ban. 
The transplant is also impor­
her father was not in the build­ing at the time of the blast. 
The blast comes a month after the Argentine goverment allowed public access to files on World War II-era Nazis. 
Among those mentioned in the files were Dr. Josef Men­gele, the "Angel of Death" at the Auschwitz concentration camp who was reported to have died in Brazil in 1979, and Josef Schwammberger, now on trial in Germany in connection with Nazi labor camps slayings. 
Schwammberger lived for years in La Plata, just outside Buenos Aires. 


Attention Freshmen!!! 
The 1992-1993 Sophomore Class Council is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Donn Representative Committee Commissi.oners Chief of Staff Council Representatives 
Applications are now available in the Student Government {)ffice. 
tant for efforts to isolate human stem cells, rare marrow cells responsible for the creation of other marrow and blood cells. 
"People have been trying to isolate the stem cell for many, many years. It's like the search for the Holy Grail," said Dr. Alan Levine, chief of the cellular hematology branch at the Na­tional Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. 
The research was conducted at the Reno VA center, which is the only medical center with the necessary equipment, Zanjani said. 
"What was very exciting about their findings was that neither did the sheep reject the human cells nor did the human cells attack the sheep," said Dr. Miguel H. Abboud of the Medi­cal University of South Carolina and one of the first U.S. physi­cians to use marrow transplants to treat sickle cell anemia. 
The obstacle of dueling cells was avoided by making the transplants into the fetus during the first trimester when there is no operational immune system. 
lJrcoming Events 
FRIDAY, MARCH 20 7:30-9:30 p.m. -Public Forum: "WHAT VISION OF WORLD ORDER IS DESIRABLE AND 
POSSIBLE?" Panel Speakers: WALDEN BEUO, Director, Institute for Food and Development Policy; RANDALL FORSBERG, Executive Director, Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies; ROBERT S. McNAMARA, former Secretary of Defense and President, World Bank; GEORGI SHAKHNAZAROV, Foundation for Social and Political Studies, Moscow. Chair: ROBERT C. JOHANSEN. Senior Fellow and Director of Graduate Studies, The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. Cosponsored with the World Order Models Project. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
INSTITUTE FOR
••• INTERNATIONAL


JJJ((( ~N~!~o~J~?L~: 
lllt:IVU:::it:IIVt:ll

Wednesday March 18, 1992 page 5 
Students spend break aiding Hatian refugees 
MIAMI (AP) -More than three dozen law students gave up a traditional spring break of skiing or sunbathing to help Haitian refugees win political asylum. 
Mike Ryan of Cas~ Western Reserve University in Cleveland was among the 37 student volunteers who showed up Monday for a crash course in immigration law at Miami's Haitian Refugee Center. 
"It's the most important thing I've ever done. f wish I didn't have to go back to law school," he said. 
Some 16,000 Haitians have fled the Caribbean nation since President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was overthrown Sept. 30 in a military coup. They were picked up at sea by Coast Guard cutters and taken to the 
U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
The U.S. government has sent back about two-thirds on the grounds they are fleeing poverty, not persecution. But about a third had stories immigration authorities deemed credible enough for further consideration for asylum. 
Now they're arriving in Miami from Guantanamo Bay atthe rate of 300 a week and have just 90 days to prepare for crucial immigration interviews. 
Refugee advocates Sa}' they need lots oflegal assistance in the weeks ·ahead to ·· the. refugees prov(l .t 
political persecutio~. 
"The .number$ .ar whelming,:: said Che.tY~ 1.J~ti lawyer for thf.l refuge~ c.ep:t~r. ''There's just nq waji•/t~at without.Jots of volunteer~·.to help we'll be able to reach the refugees we need to." t ... · 
Immigration law places the burden on refugees to prove they have a well-founded fl}li.r ofpersecution. · 
The Bush administration maintains there's never been a documented case ofa Haitian suffering persecution after being sent home, 
"We've had cases where people say family members are dead and we go back and find them walking the streets," Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said Monday. ''Just to say it doesn't make it true." 
Nominate your candidat¢. for 
College ofEngineering Outstanding Thacher 
Nominat:ion forms available in t:he St:udent: Cent:er or use t:he form you received in t:he mail 
Deadline for Nominations March 26, 1992 
Drop your Nomination at the Library or Engineering Deans Office 

1992-93 Observer staff begins 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer's 1992-93 news, business and Saint Mary's staffs begin work this week, according to News Editor David Kinney and Saint Mary's Editor Anna Marie Tabor. 
Junior Paul Pearson of Tampa, Fla., and Sophomore Steve Zavestoski of Bonsall, Calif., take over the duties of associate news editor. Associates are responsible for assigning stories and photos and working with reporters and staff members. 
Two staff members are continuing work as assistant news editors, Sophomore Meredith McCollough of Houston, Tex., and Junior Frank Rivera of Mission, Tex. Juniors Sandy Wiegand of Michigan City, Ind., and Alicia Reale of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and Sophomore Julie Barrett of Potomac, Md., begin work this week as assistants. 
Assistant news editors are re­sponsible for editing campus stories and designing the news section one night each week. 
Junior Becky Barnes of Holli­daysburg, Penn., continues working as news copy editor. Four others begin work as copy editors this week, Freshmen Sarah Doran of Boca Raton, Fla., Emily Hage of Washington, D.C., Bevin Kovalik of Perrysburg, Ohio, and Saint Mary's Sophomore Jennifer Habrych of Toledo, Ohio. 
Copy editors are responsible for ensuring that all news stories follow correct style, spelling and grammar; they also write briefs and captions for photographs. 
New Business Editor Andy Runkle, a freshman from Lancaster, Penn., will assign business stories and design the Monday and Wednesday business pages. New Business Copy Editor Pancho Lozano, a sophomore from Newport Beach, Calif., will edit stories for spelling, grammar and style. 
Colleen Knight of Hingham, Mass., begins duties as day chief and is responsible for a staff of typists and day editors. 
Tabor will be aided by Saint Mary's Assistant Editor Amy Bennett of West Lafayette, Ind., and News Editor Amy Greenwood of Grand Rapids, Mich. 

Other Saint Mary's staff mem­bers. are Advertising Representative Michelle Clemente of Richmond, Ind., Sports Editor Nicole McGrath of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Accent Editor Mara Divis of Solon, Ohio. 

Bush administration members admit to writing bad checks while in Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Three Cabinet members ac­knowledged Tuesday they had written dozens of bad checks while in Congress, the first Bush administration involve­ment in the rubber check scan­dal that previously had en­snared mostly House Democrats. 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, Agriculture Secretary Edward Madigan and Labor Secretary Lynn Martin, all former Republican House mem­bers, said they had had over­drafts at the now-closed House bank. 
Cheney, who said he'd never been given an indication of trouble with his checks, de­clared himself "angry and frus· trated." Madigan called his sit­uation "an embarrassment to me, my family and friends." 
Martin said she was donating $425 to charity, representing the charges a commercial bank might have imposed, so "someone at least should bene­fit from this embarrassing episode." 

Cheney told reporters he wrote at least 21 "problem checks" and had been told by the ethics committee there had been 25. Madigan said he over­drew 49 checks and Martin dis­closed she had 16 overdrafts. 
Tbe disclosures could blunt any effort to paint the House rubber check mess as a primar­ily Democratic scandal. However, Republicans still con­tended the epidemic of over­drafts resulted from decades of mismanagement by one party -the Democrats. 
President Bush, traveling in Fayetteville, Ark., said, "It's an institutional problem." And Vice President Dan Quayle, in San 
r=-.__ __r. ~';:::;\__---~ 
1

·f[urtle ·~CreelS: 
Notre Dame's Clo-sest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272-8124_ 

1\/\ld"S 1\/\ld"s
'Mc!oni® McDonald'$® announces••• fMc!oni® 
Diego, spoke of "the arrogance of power of an institution that's been controlled by one party without serious challenge for nearly 40 years." 
Bush, asked about his own vulnerability, said he couldn't find his own checks from 1967­71 when he was in the House. ''I'd like to be able to say I didn't do it, but I just don't know yet," he said. 

The disclosures by the three Cabinet officials added a new dimension to the controversy that until now had focused on Capitol Hill. A probe by the House ethics committee show­ing that hundreds of lawmakers overdrew their accounts at the bank has been followed by an avalanche of public confessions. Lists of the 24 worst abusers and then 331 other current and former House members with overdrafts are due out in the next few weeks. 
Cheney and Madigan, who held separate news confer­ences, did not give the total value of their uncovered checks. Cheney said his largest overdraft was for $1,945, to American Express; Madigan said his biggest was for $8,618.84, for a real estate set­tlement in the Washington area. 
Martin said in a statement that her 16 overdrafts totaled $5,125.20. They included a $1,350 check to a local savings and loan. 
Three other Cabinet members -Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan, Housing Secretary Jack Kemp and Veterans Affairs Secretary Edward Derwinski ­also served in the House during part of the 39-month period in· vestigated by the ethics commit­tee. All said in statements Tuesday that they did not over· draw their accounts at the House bank. 
Patricia Saiki, who heads the Small Business Administration and was a Republican law­maker from Hawaii, said she was never overdrawn in her four years in the House. 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg Hash Browns Orange Juice Apple Juice Muffins Cookies 

Friday &Saturday ONLY Midnight -2:00 a.m. 



LATE NIGHT DRIVE-THRU 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg Hash Browns Orange Juice Apple Juice Muffins Cookies 
Only at McDonald's® Restaurant 1 51 9 N. Ironwood, South Bend 1\/\ld"s
fMc~on~® 





page o 1he Observer 
United Way President taken c)ff after questions about compensati6ri"'i1J~e"' 
ALEXANDRlA, Va. (AP) ­Former United Way of America 


Officials lift emerge1ncy smog control measures in1 Mexico 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Winds 
pushed much of the air pollu­
tion out of the Valley of Mexico 
on Tuesday, enabling city offi­
cials to lift the most drastic 
emergency smog control mea­
sures ever imposed in the capi­
tal. 
Isabel Penalosa of the smog 
control commission said the 
controls, ordered Monday 
evening, were no longer in ef­
fect as of 10 p.m. (11 p.m. EST). 
The valley slowly filled with a 
gray-brown haze after a clear 
dawn, but ozone levels peaked 
at 153, less than half the record 
398 recorded Monday. 
The city ordered industrial production cut between 50 per­cent and 75 percent and dou­bled the number of cars banned from operating, affecting about 1 million motorists. Most schools were closed. 
"Maybe it was a little better 

Prince and wife to split 
LONDON (AP) -Prince An­drew and his wife, the former Sarah Ferguson, are preparing to announce their separation after about 5 112 years of mar­riage, the Daily Mail reported Wednesday. 
Andrew, 32, and the Dutchess of York. dubbed "Fergie" by the press, were married at London's Westminster Abbey on July 23, 1986. Andrew is the second of Queen Elizabeth II's three sons. 
Buckingham Palace refused to comment on the report. 
The paper said the queen's lawyer, Sir Matthew Farrer, and other attorneys have dis­cussed "tangled legal issues" with the couple. 
Maj. Ronald Ferguson, the father of the 32-year-old duchess, said he was aware of the report but added: "I do not make any comment on my daughter's private matters." 
The couple have two children: Princess Beatrice born on Aug. 8, 1988, and Princess Eugenie born on March 23, 1990. 
The queen's sister, Princess Margaret, 61, and her husband Lord Snowdon divorced in 1978. The queen's only daugh­ter, Princess Anne, 41, and her husband Mark Phillips, sepa­rated in August 1989. 
today without the cars," said Juan Arozamena, who sells sort drinks from an ice-filled tub near Paseo de Ia Reforma, one of the capital's busiest streets. 
"Yesterday people got headaches and their throats got dry. Business was beautiful." 
The greater Mexico City area, with about 17 million people, sits in a 7 ,300-foot-high valley ringed by mountains that trap pollutants. 
Officials said new measures would be announced soon, but did not elaborate. 
While ozone is invisible, the levels of other pollutants in the air rise with it. 
Specialists at the National Autonomous University of Mexico say prolonged exposure to ozone retards lung develop­ment in infants, increases lead levels in blood and diminishes mental capacity. It can lead to 


MICR,OSOFT 
MflJt, w.ftti1f tk 
DOS USIER'S CLUB 

~II 

Word for \Windows 2.0 
n.r. Thursday, Mm~eh 19th, in the CC.MB GOl4B at 7:00 

m~rnm~TI 



lm]]Jrilllli§ 
mJA\lf ffi=fl~ 
FREE ROOM & BOARD 
$ 5.80 PER HOUR 
SIGN lJPS ON MARCH 16-20 10 AM TO 4 PM CATERING E~1PLOYMENT OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL 
lung problems such as emphy­sema, or make existing cases worse. 
Some of the damage is irre­versible. 
Short-term exposure makes people's noses run, eyes water, throats scratch and heads ache. However, ozone high up deflects radiation from the sun that can cause skin cancer. 
A pollution scale reading of 100, which Mexico City reaches most days, can cause mild irri­tation among more susceptible elements of the population. A reading of 300 can make otherwise-healthy people ill. 

Monday's reading in some city areas peaked at 398, the highest ever here and four times the World Health Organi­zation limit of exposure for one hour, once a year. 
Wednesday March 1tl, 1!:l!:l2 


Housing starts surge to 9.6 °/o in February 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Hous­ing starts surged a stronger­than-expected 9.6 percent in February, with the gains spread across every region of the country, the government said today. 
The Commerce Department said builders started construc­tion of single-family homes and apartments at a seasonally ad­justed annual rate of 1.30 mil­lion units, the highest level in almost two years. 
Not since March 1990 have builders been as active. The in­crease of 9.6 percent was the biggest jump in a year and fol­lowed a healthy 6.4 percent gain in January, revised up from a previous estimate of 5.5 percent. 
In advance, analysts had ex­pected only a very modest rise because heavy rains was thought to have depressed ac­tivity in Southern California and Texas. 
The•February gain was likely to reassure analysts who are looking for strength in housing to help shore up the recovery from the recession that began in July 1990. 
Last year housing starts to­taled just 1.01 million units, 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: 
Monday through Thursday 
To apply, contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 



THE O~LY EASIER 
W/JYTOGETAJOB IS TO WORK 
FOR YOUR DAD. 
r••••••••••••i 
: $5.00 Off 
I 

1 Complete Resume Package : 
I Present this CCJLPOO mparticipating Kinko's 8l1d receiYe II $5.00 off the ptrchase of aComplete Resume Package. I Pado3ges vary from locmion to location. Offer not goodI in combination with otherdiscounts. 1 
·--------01==::-=:;:n..
N\ake agreat impression on your future 005s (whoever it is) with a complete resume package from Kinko's. Just give us the information and we'll give you a full set of professionally designed, laser typeset resumes complete with matching envelopes and cover letter sheets-plus you ca~ choose from a wide variety of papers, styles, typefaces and formats. 


kinko·s· 
the copy center 
Open 24 Hours 
18187 State Rd. 23 • 271-0398 
down 14.9 percent from 1990 and the worst since 1946. 
For the first two months of this year, starts are 37.6 per­cent higher than 1991. 
The rise has occurred even though mortgage rates, which hit an 18-year low in early Jan­uary, have since edged up by as much as half a percentage point. 
All of the February gain came in single-family home starts. They jumped 14.7 percent to 
1.15 million units, the highest level since January 1989. That followed a 2.8 percent increase in January. 
Apartment construction, which is highly volatile from month to month, fell 17.3 per­cent in February to 158,000 units after rising 30.8 percent in January. 
By region, starts surged 14.3 percent in the Midwest to 360,000 units. It was the third consecutive increase of 14 per­cent or greater. Starts increased 10 percent in the West to 285,000 units, 7.6 percent in the Northeast to 155,000 units and 6.8 percent in the South to 504,000 units. 
the national charity and its Jo· cal affiliates, that his salary of $390,000 was still being paid; 
Tuesday's announcement came in a memorandum to members of the United,W<ly staff from Kenneth Dam, the organization's interim pr~~il*
dent. ,,,,;,,;;;,,\\dii\>:i\;., 
He said the executiVe tommlt~ tee of the group's bgard of governors voted Monday to din~ continue Aramony's salary, e;r. fective immediately. ><r.;;,;;· 
"Mr. Aramony will receive no severance payment," Dam sahi. "Distribution of pension. bene­fits to Mr. Aramony rE!quire's 
----------'

L_ ---·--------------------------------~----_____-:,_-.-___:,. __ ---------------------.-------------­

----c.--~---~­
vveanesaay Marcn 1~. 1~~~ 

Prosecution rests in black motorist assault 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP) ­The prosecution rested its as­sault case against four white policemen Tuesday without calling the black motorist they are accused of beating. 
Defense lawyers argued that the prosecution had not pre­sented sufficient evidence to support a conviction of the of­ficers. But Superior Court Judge Stanley Weisberg disagreed and denied motions for acquittal. . 
The defense said it would be­gin calling witnesses Wednes­day. 
Sgt. Stacey Koon, 41, and Of­ficers Timothy Wind, 31, Theodore Briseno, 39, and Lau­rence Powell, 29, are charged with the March 3, 1991, beating of Rodney King, who had been stopped after a high-speed chase. 
The beating was videotaped by a neighborhood resident and its broadcast sparked national outrage over police brutality. The case also heightened racial tensions in Los Angeles. 

The last of 21 prosecution witnesses was a police detective who identified Briseno on the tape and pointed out where he kicked King. 
The absence of King on the prosecution's witness list led to speculation that defense attor­neys will call him as a hostile witness, trying to prove he incited the attack. 
"The videotape is Rodney King's testimony," said Steven Lerman, King's attorney. "He can't add anything beyond what is on the videotape. He was too busy getting his head pounded." 
The prosecution's case, pre­sented over nine days, fo~sed heavily on Powell, who is ac­cused of striking most of the baton blows against King. 
In the arguments for acquit­tal, lawyer William Kopeny, representing Briseno, said other officers at the scene were using excessive force while "Briseno was acting to protect King against excessive force from others." 

----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




THE SEASON CONTINUES!! 
NATIONAL INVITATIONAL TOURNAMENT 

NOTRE DAME vs WESTERN MICHIGAN 


Wednesday, March 18, 1992 7:30pm JACC Arena 
Student tickets only $4.00 
at the Joyce Center Gate 10 ticket window 8:30am -5:00pm with ND/SMC ID. No limit. Bleacher seats only. Lower arena seats available for $12.00. 
COME AND CHEER THE IRISH ON THEIR WAY TO NEW YORK! 1 


Blacks short on needed surgery 
CHICAGO (AP) -Older 
blacks get heart-bypass 
operations only about a fourth 
as often as older whites -even 
with Medicare coverage -and 
medical reasons don't explain 
the difference, according to the 
largest study of its kind. 
Black poverty, reluctance to 
undergo surgery or racial prej­
udice on the part of physicians 
may be to blame, said re­
searchers who analyzed 
records of all 86,463 Medicare 
bypass patients in 1986. 
Previous research has sug­
gested all three factors as pos­
sible reasons blacks get less 
medical care than whites, the 
scientists said. 
"Our results suggest that the 
national health insurance pro­
gram for the elderly does not 
solve the problem of access to 
care for black Americans," said 
co-author Dr. Arthur J. Hartz of 
the Medical College of Wis­
consin. 
Surgery rates among whites were related to physician sup­ply, but not so for blacks, con­cludes the study published in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. 
A study published in the jour­nal in 1987 suggested 13 per­cent of heart bypasses may be unnecessary, but the new study did not explore whether all surgeries were medically justi­fied. 
However, "we believe there are not great differences in the need for the procedure" among races, said Hartz. He and his colleagues found similar .rates of heart-attack hospitalizations between races, suggesting blacks and whites over age 65 develop heart-disease at similar rates. 
"We believe health-care­seeking behavior and physician decision-making are the main factors. We're not able to de­termine the relative importance of those two," Hartz said. 
Dr. Lawrence Cohn, chief of cardiac surgery at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, said, however, that heart disease in blacks may show up differently than in whites, justifying differing bypass rates. 

lllt::!VU:St::!IV\::!1
page 8 Wednesday March 18, 1992 

Clinton victories ma~' pave way to party nomination 
CHICAGO (AP) -Bill Clinton tapped the support of black and blue-collar voters to crush rival Paul Tsongas in the neutral territory of Illinois and Michigan, then set his sights on President Bush. 
"Bush, Bush, Bush," was how Clinton deputy campaign man­ager George Stephanopoulos described the Arkansas gover­nor's focus for upcoming pri­maries in Connecticut, Kansas, Wisconsin and New York. 
Clinton emerged as the pro­hibitive favorite for the Demo­cratic presidential nomination with his strong Midwest show­ing. He easily outdistanced Jerry Brown and Tsongas in both states, with Brown run­ning second in Michigan. 
"The American people heard the voice of two states full of hard-working, mainstream Americans with too much unemployment ... too little 
hope," Clinton declared. leaders. "They've voted for change." "It's almost a done deal," New 
For Clinton to turn his cam­York Democratic Chairman paign into a juggernaut, he will John Marino said of the have to suppress the challenge nominating contest. To keep his of Brown, who scored a strong momentum, Clinton will have to second place showing in Michi­pass a stiff test three weeks gan and promoted himself as from now in New York's turbu­the alternative to Clinton. lent political waters. 
The Clinton camp huddled "Barring some cataclysmic throughout much of the day event, I don't see how it gets off drafting a strategy to deal with :this glide path," said Demo­Brown's relentless attacks while teratic strategist Bill Carrick. trying at the same time to focus "'Clinton is looking more im­more on a general-election Jpressive by the week, and it's message in the primaries to lh.ard to see how you stop him come. now." 
"We've got the momentum, we've got the message and Stephanopoulos said Brown's we've got the candidate," said nrebombing was unlikely to Clinton campaign manager end, and could make New David Wilhelm. "We're going to York's always volatile campaign win the nomination and then even more turbulent. win the White House." 
He got little argument on the "It's like running against a nomination part from indepen­political terrorist," dent Democratic activists and Stephanopoulos said, promising 
Buchanan toning down his campaign after decisive Midwestern de!feats 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­publican Patrick Buchanan, dealt two bruising defeats in the industrial Midwest, began to scale back his insurgent campaign Tuesday night as President Bush put a virtual lock on the GOP nomination. 
With big wins in both Illinois and Michigan, Bush extended his winning streak over the conservative television com­mentator to 16-0. 
The challenger, who spent election night in a Detroit sub­urb, scheduled a Wednesday morning news conference at Dulles Airport in suburban Vir­ginia. 
"We're going to stay in this race through California and through the convention in Houston," said a Buchanan po­litical director, Paul Erikson, in Detroit. 
Other aides said Buchanan would announce he was cutting back on the campaigning that has gone on nearly nonstop for four months. After a week or two of regrouping, Buchanan was expected to focus much of his remaining attention on Cali­fornia's June primary, aides said. 
"The voters of Michigan and Illinois have endorsed my ap­proach to change in America," Bush said in a written state­ment. "They have pushed the delegate count to a level where my nomination is virtually as­sured." 
Bush aides said they now considered Buchanan's chal­lenge to be electorally irrele­vant. 
"The writing is on the wall is clear that George Bush is the nominee," said Bush spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. "Pat Buchanan has made his point, but he's been soundly re­jected in one state after an­other." 
Buchanan's defeat in Michi­gan was a particularly bitter rebuke since Buchanan had earlier cast the economically depressed state as the most likely site for an upset. 
His strategists hoped it could do for Buchanan what Ronald Reagan's upset victory in North Carolina did for his flagging campaign in 1976 and Buchanan campaigned there in­tensely. 
The 37 percent second-place finish that Buchanan achieved in New Hampshire remained his high-water mark. In fact,· the contests in Illinois and Michigan continued the trend of a declining protest vote against Bush. 
•
Bush campaign chairman 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 

Carry out or Dine in 
52303 Emmons Rd. 
Georgetown Shopping Center 
Open to all students, faculty and South Bend Community
llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
Members on March 18, 1992 in the S.U.R. V. office in Room 250 in the Haggar College 12 p.m.-5p.m. Refreshments too I 
sponsored by the S.U.R.V. staff 

Hobert Teeter said in an inter­view that the campaign would now focus most of its attention on the general election, having attained a "critical mass" of delegates to all but assure Bush the GOP nomination. 
"We will pay some attention to the primary states. We want to win all those delegates," he added. But for the most part, he said, the primary phase of the campaign was over. 
On Buchanan's reported strategy to focus on California, Teeter said, "The president can win in California." 
that Clinton would be more critical of Brown's record and proposals if necessary. 
Many independent strategists predicted Brown would prove little more than a nuisance, provided Clinton steers clear of any additional major contro­versies. 
Clinton entered the day with more than one-third of the del­egates needed for nomination and would end it approaching the halfway point. 
With Illinois and Michigan, Clinton has 13 wins in 26 Democratic contests; Tsongas is second with seven, and Brown has three. 
Clinton's double-barrelled win a week after a Southern sweep is likely to bring a stream of endorsements from elected of­ficials and other party leaders who also are convention dele­gates. It also should bring an­other flood of cash into his war chest. 
JPmLOSOPHY JPOLITICS & ImcONOMICS 
PPE: ACONCENTRATION FOR STUDENTS MAJORING IN PHILOSOPHY, KlVERNMENT, OR ECONOMICS DEALING WITH THOSE AREAS IN WHICH THE THREE DISCIPLINES OVERLAP. THE PROGRAM IS DESIGNED TO FOSTER DIS<.:;IPLINED fNTELLEl;'J'UAL DEBATE AND INTERCHANGE AMONG THEORETICALLY REFLECTIVE STUDENTS AND FACULTY IN THE THREE DISCIPLINES. Brochures: available in the 3 Departments 
DEMAND OFTEN EXCEEDS THE PL<\CES AVAILABLE TO RESERVE APLACE: OBTAIN AN AUTHORIZATION# WELL BEFORE REGISTRATION 
For details and an authorization # see: PROF. E. A. GOERNER l-5 PM 434 DEClO or call: 233-1647 

S.U.R.V. Spes Unica Resource Volunteer Center 
~~ pro:t(Jnts th(Jit firot mnn!JEI8 gtMr 
SPESUNICA




!f!fi 
RESOURCE&

RESOURCE& 
VOLUNTEER

VOLUNTEER 
CENTER

CENTER 
OPEN HOUSE 
SAINT MARY'S

SAINT MARY'S 
COLLEGE

COLLEGE 
Come and s~e what opportunities S.U.R. V. has to offer Saint Mary's and the South Bend Community 

____ __________..,.._ 

Wednesday March 1t!, 1992 1he Observer page 9 
Kidnapped U.S. businessman freed in Philippines 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) -Barnes later appeared before A Calirornia businessman kid-reporters at police headquar­napped two months ago was ters along with U.S. Embassy freed Wednesday and appeared officials and thanked those re-before reporters at national sponsible for his release. police headquarters. Police said "I'm very glad to be back safe the businessman had been r!)S-and sound," said Barnes, who cued. wore a beard, was dressed in 
Col. Roberto Lastimoso said shorts and appeared weak. Michael Barnes, 41, of Long Earlier Wednesday, oiTicials Beach, Calif., was rescued said police SWAT teams killed about 1 p.m. in suburban 10 people during a series of si-Paranaque. multaneous morning raids on 
Barnes, vice president of suspected hideouts of Barn1~s· Philippine Geothermal Inc., was kidnappers. kidnapped by gunmen Jan. 17 The Philippines National Po-near his oflice. lice said two of its agents were wounded and two women were arrested during raids in four districts of metropolitan Manila. 
Three suspects were killed in the raid in Paranaque, three in Mandalyuong, three in Marikina and one in Makati, police said. 
A statement by police said the raids were staged "to flush out suspected Communist abduc­tors of Barnes, resulting in the death of 10 suspected Commu­nist members." 
No further details were im­mediately available. There was no explanation why so many 
Sharp increases in borrowing worry educators as loan defaults double 
BOSTON (AP) -Dawn Russo thumbed through college catalogs one recent evening after work, eagerly planning for a graduate degree in education. Her enthusiasm waned when she considered the cost. 
''I'll have to do it all on loans," said Husso, 25, who already owes about $20,000 for her undergraduate tuition, room and board. ''I've given up on getting any" other kind of aid. 
Sharp increases in borrowing worry educators, not to mention students and parents having trouble making payments during a recession. Student loan defaults in somP areas have doubled in th<) last year, while appeals for d<)lays have nearly quadrupled. 
"It is not a pretty pietur<)," said A. Dallas Martin Jr., president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. which scheduled the last of a series of regional hearings on the issue in Boston today. 
"Parents are finding it hard to keep up with those loans," Martin said. "They just don't have the money. For the student, it's a tight job market and the ones that lind jobs may be making less than they anticipated." 
Total student aid has dropped in constant dollars in the last 10 years, according to the College Board, which administers the Scholastic Aptitude Test. Over the same period, the cost of going to a private college has more than doubled, while public university tuition rose 81 percent, tlw board said. 
Not surprisingly, more students and their families are 
borrowing.  In  15  years,  the  
proportion  of  financial  aid  
consisting  of  loans  has  

increased from 17 percent to 50 percent, the Coll<)ge Board reported. 
"What's happening is rP.ally disastrous," said Barbara Tornow, director of financial aid at Boston UniversitY and a member of the board of tlw Massachusetts Higher Education Assistance Corp. 
In New York, public universities raised tuition 59 percent, and students in the State University of New York system borrowed 34 percent more money than last year. 
In California, loan applications increased by nearly a third in the last six months of 1991 among students at the California State University system, where f<)eS for Californians rose 20 percent to $936 a semester. 
The nation's third-largi)St student loan agency, the Nnw England Loan Marketing Corp., reported a 350 percent increase in requests for delays in loan payments during 1991 and a doubling in default claims to 3,400 a month. 
"Each year we're seeing a 
"Students are being expncted larger debt, and increased to borrow more than I think is earnings coming with the feasible in some cases," she education doesn't match up said. "Institutions are being with the ability to pay," said forced to spend less on faeulty, Joseph Boyd, who is on programs, on service." researching the effects of de)bt 
Students at BU and other for the American Council on schools in Massachusetts saw Education. state financial aid fall 62 percent this year. The "We're at a point where every university doubled its own graduate now has a bigger spending on scholarships, a share of his income dedieated burden partly blamed for to paying back loans." nearly 50 layoffs. 
Mental disorders common in Illinois teens, report shows 
CHICAGO (AP) -Teen-agers of 28.7 days at a cost of hospitalized in Illinois sutTer $16,036 each, and 2,654 boys from mental disorders more who averaged 30-day stays at a often than almost any other cost of $17,161 each, said the single problem, a new report council. says. While teen-pregnancy hospi-
But a child psychiatrist says talizations dwarfed those fig-pregnancy and alcohol abuse ures-numbering 46,125 and are greater health threats. averaging 2.8 days in duration 
The most commonly recorded and a cost of $2,879 -tlw mental problem -psychosis -council focused on mental ill-accounted for 5,729 tenn hospi-ness because fewer people! arc) talizations in Illinois in 1989, aware of its toll. the most recent year for which "I don't think it's surprising figures are available, the rc)port to anybody that childbirth is says. the leading cause of hospital­
"If you exclude childbirth, ization among teen-age girls," psychoses were the top diag-said council spokesman Brian noses for teens of both s<~xes," Griffin. 13ut the numbers on said John Noak, executive di-psychoses-related hospitaliza­rector of the Illinois Health tions were a surprise, he said. Care Cost Containment Council. Psychoses arc defects in per-which wrote the report. sonality organization that stnm 
"Not only is mental illness from ailments ranging ft·om one of the most common rea-schizophrenia to manic-dnpres­sons our youth are hospitalized, sion to brain damage. it's also among the most Dr. Bennett Leventhal, chair-costly," Noak added in a man of psychiatry at thn Uni-statement accompanying tlw versity of Chicago, said preg­report prepared for release to-nancy shouldn't be downplayed day. as teens' leading health prob­
"While most teen-agers who lem. are admitted to the hospital arn "It's not only a problem be­discharged within a few days, cause of the number of of ad­it's not unusual for young pa-missions and their costs but tienl<; suffering from psychoses also because of child care ~:osts or neuroses to be hospitalized and the risk of complications, for weeks at a time at costs of which increase enormously" up to $17,000 per case." among teen patients. 
The cases included 3,075 Alcohol and drug abuse, too, girls, hospitalized an averagn have enormous impact besides hospitalizations, including DUI deaths and injuries, Leventhal said. 
Also, he said, the cou neil's data reflect the medical sys­tern's methods of payment more than the true diagnosns, since data were based on hospi­tal discharge records, which are coded by diagnosis used for payment purposes. 
Sometimes health-ear<) providers classify illnessns ac­cording to what will be covered under insurance policies rather than what the true ailment is, he said. 
"It doesn't change the treat­ment or the need for admis­sion," he said. 
For boys, the second most common reason for hospital­ization after psychosis was ap­pendectomy; followed by bran­chitis and asthma; alcohol-drug abuse or dependence; digestiV<) system disorders; then depres­sion. 
For girls, the next most most common reason for hospital­ization after pregnancy and psychosis were infections of the) female reproductive tract; fol­lowed by digestive system dis­orders; depression; and poison­ing and the toxic el'fcets of drugs. 
raids ended in "shootouts" with such a high death toll. Communist rebels have denied holding Barnes. 
They claim he was abducted by a group led by Alfredo de Leon, whom the rebels describ<) as a former guerrilla who was thrown out of the underground movement after unauthorized bank robberies and kidnap­pings. 
De Leon was arrested in November but escaped soon afterward. Rebel sources claim de Leon was intentionally set free by his captors, who became his partners in a kidnap-for­ransom gang. 
The Barnes kidnapping has deepened safety concerns among American businessmen in Manila and prompted several companies to hire bodyguards for senior staff. 
U.S. Ambassador Frank Wis­ner warned that the abduction may undermine the govern­ment's campaign to attract foreign investment to help re­vive the nation's flagging econ­omy. 

Sole voter in 93rd Illinois House District casts absentee ballot 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) -own home. Henry County Clerk Lydia Thorpe made an end run Marth~ Sawyer. an_d a around the attention she has Republican elect10n JUdge received as the only registered visited Thorpe at 3 p.m. voter in her precinct who votes Monday to take her ballot. in the 93rd state House Each Illinois voter must District. specify a party ballot, Sawyer 
She cast an absentee ballot. said: green for the Democrats; 
"I did vote, right here at yellow for the Republicans; home," Thorpe, 86, said white for non-partisan voters. Tuesday. "I didn't think I was Thorpe requested a green going to, but I went ahead." ballot, which will be mixed in 
A quirk of redistricting drew among all the others. 
boundary lines around her house, and Thorpe became the only registered voter in the 6th Precinct in Kewanee Township in the 93rd state House District. Everyone else in her precinct is in the 94th llous<) District. 
Thorpe had said Friday she was afraid to cast her vote in the primary. Because voting results are a matter of public record, compiled by precinct, anyone who visits the county clerk's office can see how she voted. 
The state Supreme Court approved the Hepublican-drawn remap for the General Assembly's 177 seats in Jan­uary. Last Wednesday, a three­judge U.S. District Court panni in Chicago upheld the plan. Democrats are trying to overturn it in fednral court. 
Henry County State's Attorney Larry Vandersnick wanted the state Supreme Court to 
"They told mel didn't have to use a pink vote. I could use a vote like the other people did," Thorpe said. 
I 
Election officials had said Thorpe would be given a distinctive colored ballot. Poll watchers and election judges then could have told immediately how she voted. 
I 
Thorpe said she hopes the a federal appeals court hears the case and acts before November's general election. 
I 
"The Illinois State Consti­tution guarantees by law the General Assembly shall ensure the secrecy of the ballot and the integrity of the election," Sawyer said. "This has gone on long enough." 
Thorpe, who has received calls from concerned voters 

readjust the new legislative and curious reporters across district bound~;try so that all the the country, said she would precinct's voters would b<) in spend the rest of the day the 94th District. resting and ignoring the phone. 
Without comment the court I denied Vandersniek's motions. "There's been a whole lot of Arrangements were made for follow-up about it. Today I'm Thorpe to vote absentee in her just talked out," she said. 
Vandalism may be linked to proposed KY landfill 
SALYERSVILLE, Ky. (AP) -A house fire and alleged vandal­ism at a radio station may be linked to a dispute over a pro­posed landfill, two people close to the incidents said. 
C.K. Belhasen, a station owner of WRLV, said the station was knocked off the air Saturday night when someone poured saltwater into the electronic segment of its transmitter. Bel­hasen estimated damage at $10,000 to $15,000. 
State police are investigating, he said. Belhasen also intends to alert the Federal Communi­cations Commission and the FBI. And he said he and the station's other owners plan to offer a reward of at least $1,000 for information leading to the conviction of the vandal. 
"It was absolutely, positively sabotaged," Belhasen said. lin said the landfill controversy may have been the cause. 
"Obviously, it's awfully suspi­cious when the city is in sueh turmoil," Belhasen said. 
The station has reported the 
landfill story "intensely," Bcl­
hasen said. But he added that 
"both sides have been mad at 
us from time to time." 
State police arc also investi­
gating another incident Satur­
day night. The home of Debbie 
Hardin, the ex-wife of a leading 
landfill opponent, burned to the 
ground, said Harold Rayburn, 
assistant chief of the Saly­
ersville Fire Department. 
"It was totally engulfed whnn we got there," Rayburn said. "There was no saving it." 
No one was home at the timo of the fire. Dr. Charles Hardin, the vice president of a local cit­izens' group that opposes the landfill, said his ex-wife had re­ceived threats shortly befor<! the fire. 
He said he didn't know whether the threats were re­lated to the landfill controversy but added, "I can only assume that they were." 

-_,-------------~----~~----~~---­


V'iewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, March 18, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••.•....•••.•....••••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .••.•.....•.•..... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••.•.••••.••...David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor..•.•••••.•••••.•.•.John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes. lel!ers and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of !he community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through leners. is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ltJ £tJ&us~ o" J"'API\tl~& · · . · 
1

:t:t'5 1\ I!»IL-\t•.\GluA'--'"1K't\1&. • 


Archdiocese Volunteer Program was worthwhile 
Dear Editor: decisively showed that Cup to add our gifts to the battle to his difficulty in facing a seri­are those of the many chal­
Heggie is a 6 foot, 9 inch ju­Night, perhaps, should not be against the ills of the inner-city. ous learning disability. lenges we have faced. We could nior. He has a nice hook shot, the #1 concern in our lives. As a group, we have Like most of the kids we've tell many more stories of stu­he can really rebound, and he All Reggie did was get a 79 on witnessed the many negative encountered, his city exterior dents overcoming adversity, and blocks everything which gets a semester exam. He had not things. Poverty, racism, the was a mask for an average 15 we could tell equally compelling near the backboard. He is a passed an exam all year. The breakdown of the family, drugs year-old trying to make it in a stories of young men who have high school basketball prodigy smile on his teacher's face was and addiction are all evident. tough environment. already chose paths filled with on one of the most powerful wider than his own. His teacher But we have also watched hopelessness. high school teams in the coun­selfishly celebrated a personal young men and women over­Living and working in New try. victory; Reggie simply com­come great odds simply to ar­York City has provided us with But those challenges and 
Helax, Coach MacLeod, this is plained that, "It should have rive at school each day. many other benefits as well. those stories have resulted in not a recruiting entreaty. Reggie been an 80." Despite the perils of the We've had the chance to experi­the most rewarding experience might help the Notre Dame Bronx, its bad reputation, and ence diversity (watching "The of our lives. The Archdiocese team win some games, but for Reggie worked as hard on overpopulation, one of the first Cosby Show" is not quite the Volunteer Program is currently the time being, he and 729 that exam as he does on his things we learned is that these same as listening to 5 different looking for 1992-1993 volu n­other inner-city young men are basketball. It was a small are just kids trying to grow up languages being spoken on a teers. If interested (the position helping two Notre Dame victory, but that victory and under very difficult circum­subway train in the South provides room and board, and a graduates learn about victory. victories like it have made the stances. Bronx); we have taken advan­generous stipend), please 
past six months the most tage of a nightlife which truly contact Mary Ann Hoerner at 
We are volunteer teachers at rewarding of both of our lives. Initial expectations of rough, never sleeps (South Bend is the esc for details and an ap­St. Haymond's High School for Nine other 1991 Notre Dame inner-city kids typically were nice, but...); and there is noth­plication. Boys in the Bronx, New York. A graduates are here as well inflated. One student, who ing quite like the experience of year ago, as second semester teaching in the Bronx. As initially refused to do work and a Broadway show, Rockefeller Tim Sullivan seniors, our major concern on a Archdiocesan Volunteers, we continually fought instruction, Center at Christmas time, or a NO Class of '91 Thursday was beating the rush work in Catholic high schools has finally come around and Yankees game at The Stadium. Chris Rowley for Cup Night at Senior Bar. throughout the Bronx: teaching, has begun to excel. As it turned Looking back at six months' NO Class of '91 Last Thursday, Heggie, however, coaching, and generally trying out his refusal to learn was due work, the images which recur March 14, 1992 
Information session to~ be held about volunteer options 
Dear Editor: Even for those best suited for I was in the situation recently point is that retracted offers Roemer at the CSC or anyone at 
As the school year winds to a service work, no motivation is of having a job ofl'er but still and negative reactions will not Career and Placement. Thev close, some seniors remain purely altruistic. Being moti­feeling a strong call to volun­result from simply probing. The are more than willing to aid in uncertain or a bit uneasy about vated by a lack of other options teer. After much contemplation, worst thing they can do is say these types ol' decisions. And if next year's plans. Some of you is a completely acceptable rca­I contacted the lirm to inquire if no. I even know of one person a job deferment sounds like a have 11nally landed the job for son for service if it moves you to a job deferment were a pos­who was granted a deferment good idea, do not be afraid ol' which you had been waiting. Or action. sibility. I was nervous that they af'ter he had already accepted a people's reactions. They can perhaps, as many seniors arc would retract a job offer or job. help put the answers to your finding, the job market has For those of you who already perceive me as someone lacking questions in a clearer light. It proven more unfriendly than have a job, perhaps there is an motivation to work. Their reac­Whether you have solid future may be one ol' the most im por­expected. Hegardless of your uneasy feeling of something not tion was exactly the opposite. plans or not, if you have the tant decisions of your life. situation, if a year of volunteer yet complete. Are you feeling They wnre very supportive. motivation to volunteer, please service has ever crossed your that there should be more to They commented that this was look into it further. You may be An information session will be mind, please do not rule out result from this Notre Dame something which could only be surprised by some people's re­held Wed. March 18 at 4:30 this option in formulating your education thanjustajob? Ifyou done now and that it should actions. One final point; if p.m. at the CSC. Stop by and future plans. possess the desire to volunteer improve a person in the long money is keeping you from ser­pick up information on 
but already have a job, ad­run. In the end, they granted vice work, consider that almost available programs. 
If the difficulty of finding a job ditional options may be avail­me the job deferment with en­all loans can be deferred for a has led you to consider vol­able. Your company may be couragement. year of service. Robb Schoenbauer unteer work, do not feel that more open to the thought of a There is no guarantee that all If this letter speaks to you, Grace Hall this Is the wrong motivation. job deferment than you think. firms will react in this way. The please talk with Mary Ann March 14, 1992 
DOONESBURV 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ONL-Y SCAt£, Rt!Y. ACTUO.UY, IT'S CAN7S4Y 8IJT 7H/31?& AR£:-(}'T}ff;R. 7W8;7{)ABOlff r~Bt£N R£/A/ARPS, UK& 6eT­8/JCHlWAA/. IFH8 FW.OfAJING TING 7D TAK£ OUT fW}N'r8fflJ 5lCH HIM. THINK. 
PAT BUCHANAN. ter'5 A~~UJm.Jie, I I'/:J/..1/(/3 GtT BU~ OKAY? MIGHi"V& VO'!W HIM? I FOR I
\ 
'Elvis was a hero to most, but he never meant shit to me. Straight­up racist-that sucker was simple and plain.' Public Enemy 
If your heros aren't on stamps, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Wednesday, March 18, 1992 Viewpoint page 11 ­
Bush faces problems, but few legitimate challengers 
Editor's Note: This is,the first ofa two-part column: 
In the wake of a lukewarm State of the Union Address and a feeble showing in the New Hampshire primary, President Bush seems to have hitched a ride on a downbound train. His daily approval ratings are plummeting faster than the mercury in a Michiana thermometer, and there's no sign of a thaw. George Herbert Walker Bush, with his anemic domestic agenda and half­hearted economic policies, has dug himself a political hole so deep that not even a gratuitous foreign invasion could bail him out this time. 
And during this, the winter of his discontent, even the old ltepublican Guard arc deserting poor George, jumping like ral<; form a burning ship and scurrying to enemy camps. 
llousc Republican Whip Newt "The Weasel" Gingrich has seen the writing on the wall and switched allegiance to Pat Buchanan. Conservative colum­nist George Will, once known as "Old Faithful" in Republican circles, has denounced Bush as a downright "mediocre president." 
Even the steadfast Bar, fearful of tarnishing her Silver Fox image, stood by embarrassedly as her husband collapsed at a state luncheon in Japan. With Lee Atwater pushing up daisies in Election Campaign Hell and that brooding oaf Sununu relegated to doing guest-spots on Firing Line, Jeb Bush is painfully discovering the truth in the old adage "it's lonely at the top, especially when you're about to fall." 
The early primary voters seem to echo these sentiments. Only 53 percent of New Hampshire's Republicans gave George the nod. In South Dakota, he captured 69 percent of the Republican vote-an impressive margin except for the fact that he was the only name on the ballot. The remaining 31 percent opted for the "uncommitted" slot. 
But not even good liberals like myself can find solace in the President's downward spiraling popularity (probably because, in light of the current state of the economy, most of us will be jobless come May). What, if any, arc the alternatives? Once again the Democratic Party has offered up a listless bevy of flaccid pretenders and no­names also-rans, while the party's true movers and motivators hide behind "pressing" obligations and lame excuses and Just Say Cuomo. 
No Democrat with half a chance of winning the presidency has set foot in New Hampshire since 1976, and this election year doesn't look any different. Paul Tsongas may have won big initially, but judging form the past success of Greek liberals from Massachusetts, he hasn't got a snowball's chance in Hades when the general election rolls around. 
It's leap year again, and that can only mean one thing­Olympic overkill and nonstop campaign coverage. While this 
Erik Huey 
Guest Columnist 
election year looks to be as foul and ugly as any in recent memory, nothing could be as seedy as the 1988 Bush campaign. That pandering tribute to mudslinging, grudge politics and garden variety jingoism cheapened the entire process and sent most self­respecting citizens to the shower to rinse off the dirt and the shame. 
Bush, the former CIA director (a position which should automatically disqualify him from further public service) thought that by pulling the nag over the public's eyes, he could conceal his lack of any real political agenda. 
It worked: he won. It helped that he happened to be running against the only other guy in America with less charisma than himself, but he probably would have won anyway. The country was still oaked on Reagan Era skunkweed and actually believed, among other desperate notions, that trickle­down economics would work in the long run. 
Well, in the ensuing four years of economic turmoil, we've all learned that you can't water a tree from the top down. 
But old Dutch Reagan was smart: in the time-honored tradition of Bill Casey, he got out when the going was good (before he got caught). When the bills came due for his eight year credit card spree, the Gipper was hiding deep in the bowels of sunny Califorqia, sipping pina coladas with Nancy and Frank Sinatra, nowhere to be found. 
George Bush, on the other hand, was hard at work in the Oval Office when the economy hit the fan. And judging by his sluggish reaction, the poor bastard didn't even sec it coming. 
The first obstacle Bush will have to overcome in his attempt to regain the Presidency will be the challenges from within his own party. In elections past, the Republicans have had the luxury of waltzing unscathed through the primary process while the Democratic candidates tore each other to pieces. 
This year, Bush will be forced to dodge blows from both the far left and the far right. If New Hampshire is any indication, Conservative Republicans are about as happy with George's performance as the average GM plant worker. 
Luckily for Jeb, neither of the two jokers currently challenging him, David Duke and Pat Buchanan, have a shot at winning the party's nomination. Either of these blood-sucking reptiles are capable, however, of exacting a pound of Bush's political flesh during the primaries. The president may very well emerge from his intraparty scuffles so punchdrunk and senseless that he'll never recover the strength needed to battle a Democrat. 
Both Duke and Buchanan will strike a strong chord among the closet racists in the Republican party-those who've tradition­ally had to settle for couching their bigotry in terms of disdain for the welfare system. If Duke ever finds his way onto a state's ballot, he'll probably do embar­rassingly well, especially in the South. 
Duke supporters form the buckle of the Bible Belt and arc too goofed on Jesus and backwoods prejudice to vote otherwise. Exit polls will show that their only electoral misgiving was that there were no current Klansmen from which to choose. 
Buchanan is a Nazi of a dif­ferent color. He's never held public office, and hopefully never will. Yet his Nineteenth Century isolationist message could feasibly do major damage to Bush, especially if he runs as an independent in November. 
As a general rule of thumb, voters should be leary of anyone who William F. Buckley calls a racist. Unlike Duke, he presents an air of authenticity and viability, unless of course you happen to b'e black, Jewish, or moderately intelligent. Despite his initial showing in New Hampshire, the public will soon tire of his fat face and empty rhetoric. He'll get pistolwhipped like a cheap dog in the remaining primaries, left for dead, wallowing in political obscurity and cable TV purgatory; the John Anderson (who?) of 1992. 
Erik Huey is a third year Law student from Morgantown, WV. The second half of his column will appear tomorrow. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student Government undermining reputation of SUB 
Dear Editor: the last Senate meeting for the ignorance of the subject in early as expressed by Coffey, but a Student Government, I begin to 
It amazes me how bad a semester had already passed. January, after the bids had constitutionally valid approval question the integrity of our memory Student Government We then explained that we gone out and before the Senate of the performances. Student Government. officials have. In the article could wait until January for meeting. The Student Senate did, in Student Union Board's mis­dated March 3 in The Observer, approval, but that the offer by John CoiTey then accused SUB fact, give tacit approval of both sion is to provide social, cul­Joseph Blanco accuses SUB of the artist may be withdrawn at of misappropriate actions, as shows, and the shows were tural, and intellectual events for inappropriate actions without that time. Joseph Blanco did in The contracted after fulfilling all the student body. I ask the disclosing the full story. To this I At that time I presented the Observer. When I explained the constitutional requirements. students to make the judgement would like to explain what did figures on Howie Mandel, the situation of the approval by John Coffey, however, con­for themselves by looking back happen in December and same figures given to the Dave Fiorenza, he claimed that tinues to this day to undermine on the past year to all the small January over the Lenny Senate at the January meeting. our ligures were grossly under­SUirs reputation by spreading and large events. Kravitz/Cult and the Howie These ligures on expenses, con­stated. As explained earlier, inaccurate information. Even The BoDcans, Joe Clark, $2 Mandel concerts. trary to Blanco's comments, they were not. Coffey thought when told that SUB was plan­Movies, Casino Night, Laser 
AnTostal had been for some were almost exactly the same these ligures were inaccurate ning to cover all expenses Light Show, Sophomore Literary time exploring acts to bring in as the actual expenses incurred only because a Student through SUB, Coffey told the Festival, Bookstore Basketball, for April. We were informed on the performance, if not an Activities administrator had Senate that SUB planned to Material Issue, Danny Glover, that Howie Mandel would be in­overestimate. said our figures were lower cover the losses through the Panama City Trip, Winterfcst, terested in performing at Notre than their oflicc's estimates. Sen a tc carry-forward account. Michigan City Shopping Trip, Dame on March 1. Ramsay presented similar The truth is that SUB will be Football Away-Games Sleeping 
This not being during figures to Fiorenza and the She did not produce these es­covering most if not all of the Beauty Ballet, Goodwill Clothing AnTostal, I offered the chance Senate on the Lenny timates at the Senate meeting, expenses through SUB ac­Drive, etc, etc, etc. Then ask to the campus entertainment KravitdCult concert, and they however, and this information counts. what the rest of Student commissioner, Jennifer Mec. were accurate when the final was taken as fact without proof. When Student Government Government has provided in She was interested in bringing figures came in. We expected The contracts for both shows, officials do not keep themselves comparison. it in, but was heading to Fiorenza, an experienced pro­as of that Senate meeting, were apprised of the situation, act London for the spring semester grammer himself, to under­not signed and could be extra-constitutionally, and then Matthew Bomberger and the newly vacated stand the multitude of costs in­cancelled, so the approval of spread inaccurate information AnTostal Commissioner Commissioner position was not volved in a concert of this size Senate was not just a formality to undermine another part of March 12, 1992 to be filled until January. and quality. 
At that point, Fiorenza gave 
She asked if I could pursue us permission to send out the this event until another bids and to just not approach Commissioner could be se­the Student Senate. It was his lected. I agreed and asked Lynn permission we acted on, since Ramsay, the SUB Board we expected the Student Body Manager, for the go ahead. She Vice President to know and was going to obtain approval uphold the Constitution. for Lenny Kravitz/fhe Cult con­cert on behalf of the Music Only when rumors about Commissioner Joe Huston, who these concerts began did we wished to pursue this show for approach the Student Senate to the students at Notrc·Dame. clear up the matter. Student 
At this time, in accordance Body Treasurer John Coffey with the Student Body joyfully explained the "bid" Constitution, we approached system for contracting acts for Dave Fiorenza (Joseph Blanco Notre Dame. It is not surprising was unavailable) in order to how good his information was, begin the Senate approval pro­because l had to explain every cess. Fiorenza informed us that aspect to him when he admitted 


'------~------~--~-~---~----------~-------­



Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, March 18, 1992 
-
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 

Under the weather? A week in review 
C 
onsidering that it is the day after St. Patrick's Day and most of you are dealing with pounding heads, churning stomachs and bad gas, it would be inappropriate to have a column that is serious and burdensome. 
No, you will find none of that here. Thanks to market research by the folks at USA Today, it is apparent that short, graphically pleasing ar­ticles are more likely to be read than long, boring pieces of wombat dung. 
So here is a potpourri of things, a myriad of vignettes or even a cornucopia of snippets (all of these are words that most English teachers hate, and since my English professor is giving an exam today, this sentence is dedicated to him.) It's a Rockne's Lovechild Lite-half the calories of the regular column and still not even remotely funny. 
* * * 
TOP TEN MOST POPULAR ACTIVITIES FOR THOSE SPRING BREAKERS STAYING IN SOUTH BEND: 
10) Wet boxer contests in Moreau Seminary. 
9) Mushroom stroganoff chugging contests in North Dining HalL 
8) Naked relay races on South Quad. 
7) Teenie Weenie Habit contests with the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
6) Calling Counseline and listening to the "Physical Intimacy" tape so you don't have to call those expensive 900 numbers. 
5) Inebriated sprints between Club 23 and Commons. 
4) Call Monk and tell him that this research business is all right just as long as he keeps the babes coming in. 
3) Spend hours in amazement at the everyday low prices at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore "On the Campus". 
2) Scavenging for discarded jockstraps in the Rock. 
And the number one activity for Spring Breakers staying in South Bend: 
1) Sit around getting drunk and complain about how boring Notre Dame is. 
* •• 
TOP TEN MOST ANNOYING THINGS TO TRUE IIUSIIMEN AND IRISHWOMEN: 
10) The smell of Irish Spring. 
9) That nerdy little leprechaun from the Lucky Charms commercials, 
8) Top o' the mornin' to you! 
7) Corned beef and cabbage. 
6) Italians. 
5) Warm beer. 
4) Green thong underwear. 
3) People who wear those goofy shamrock things on their heads. 
2) People who think that drinking on St. Patrick's day suddenly makes them Irish. 
And the number one most annoying thing to true Irishmen and Irishwomen: 
1) People who try to imitate the Irish brogue and only end up sounding Scottish. 
* * * 
TOP TEN THINGS DYED GREEN IN HONOH OF ST. PATrY'S DAY: 
10) Tap water. 
9) Your passed-out roommate. 
8) Beef and Provolone sandwiches in the Dining Hall. 
7) Monk's hair. 
6) Phlegm. 
5) Toilet paper. 
4) Fat Shirley's nasal discharge. 
3) All residents of Fisher. 
2) The Church of Loretto. 
And the number one thing dyed green in honor of St. Patty's day: 
1) The HPC catering staiT. 
That's all for now. Tune in three weeks from now for a true, caffeinated Hockne's Lovechild. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor emeritus ofThe Observer. 1/is columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 



I Sesquicentennial Student Week 

un 

offers cure for Spring Break withdrawal 
By KEVIN SULLIVAN 
Accent Writer 
Throughout this week, a host 
of late night events have been 
scheduled to give students 
suffering from Spring Break 
withdrawal a chance to case 
back into the semester. 
The "Sesquicentennial Student Week" chaired bv Notre Dame student Kati~ Pamenter will give all those who are emotionally distraught by their light post-midterm work load something to do to fill up the hours between Cheers reruns and trips to The Commons. 
Student Week officially kicks off this Tuesday night. Strangely enough, no events are planned. Apparently it is assumed that students will find other ways to amuse themselves on St. Patrick's Day. 
On Wednesday night, how­ever, undergrads will find themselves drawn to the South Dining Hall. No, it's not Circus Lunch. It's the Ice Cream Olympics. For the main event, participants will be divided into two teams: Freshmen and Sophomores on one, and Juniors and Seniors on the other. 
A gargantuan ice cream sundae will be placed in front of each team. The team that 
manages to polish off its sun­
dae first will not only be filled 
with pride and satisfaction, but 
will earn $200 for each class' 
charity as well. 

Anyone who is still unfulfilled after the sundae race will also be able to feast on Icc Cream Cookie sandwiches, Hoot Beer floats and much, much more. Not since the last rare ehicken strip meal will such contented smiles be seen on the faces of those exiting the South Dining IIaiL 
On Thursday night the scene will switch to Stepan Center, where Head Coach Lou Holtz will give a talk titled, "Trust, Love and Commitment." Besides getting a close look at the man they've been throwing double-fisted "L's" at for the last few years, Domers will get a chance to listen to Holtz speak on motivation, service, and getting ahead. 
Holtz's talk begins at 7 p.m. and should be over by 9 p.m.­allowing enough time for students to get over to Acoustic's Cafe in LaFortune's basement for a night of Irish music lasting until 1 a.m. Notre Dame professors Tom Dayhill and John Kennedy will be jamming out the Gaelic tunes. 
There will also be an open 
microphone for anyone else who would like to pay tribute to their heritage. On Friday night it's back to Stepan Center for an All-Night Movin Fest. Five cinematic classi<:s will b1~ shown, kicking off with "Fast Times at Ridgemont lligh" and coming to a conclusion with "Animal House." Popcorn and soda will be provided. 
The movies will be shown 
from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., and 
J>amenter encourages students 
to "bring their pillows and 
sleeping bags." Although 
chairs will be provided, sitting 
for this event is definitely 
frowned upon. 
On Saturday morning the floor of Stepan will be swept clean of the popcorn and napping students left over from the previous night in preparation for Nazz, the an­nual battle of campus bands. 
Twenty-four groups will play 15 minute sets from 6 p.m. to 12 a.m. in order to determine the champion. Along with well­known bands XYZ Affair and The Generics, students will get a chance to hear from bands like Victoria's Real Secret and Oatmeal. 
Nazz will bring the Sesquicentennial Student Week to a close. All the week's events are free of charge. 

~-~---~-----~---~~-c-
Wednesday, March 18, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 

Knight cancels awards banquet after regular season loss to Purdue ­
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -No. 1 seed in nearby Dayton or but of course I'm upset. We've Therefore, this year's basketball morning.~
Indiana coach Bob Knfght, who Cincinnati, Ohio, for an NCAA put this on for 41 years. This banquet has been canceled." 
Tenney said ticket buyers

has been silent since Sunday's tournament regional, Indiana is would have been our 42nd The statement said the ath­would be reimbursed. He couldloss to Purdue, has canceled the No. 2 in Boise, Idaho, playing year." 
letic department might recon­not say how many of the $7.50
annual basketball awards ban­Eastern Illinois at 10:35 p.m. 
Tenney said a caterer had sider having a banquet for the tickets have been sold because
quet. EST Thursday. 
been hired, guests and digni­basketball team if, at the end of they have been distributedThe local Kiwanis Club, which 
taries invited and hundreds of 
the season, an all-sports ban­through a variety of businessessponsors the banquet, an­Kiwanis Club President Craig tickets sold. 
quet does not develop or "a and organizations.
nounced Monday that a secre­Tenney said on Monday, "At In a statement issued today by special event is warranted." 
tary to Knight telephoned that 9:20 ·this morning, coach the sports information office, "I can't believe anyone would The event usually attractsthe banquet set for April 9 in 
Knight's secretary called up and Knight's office said it had been be so cold to his players," said crowds of about 2,000. Assembly Hall was being canceled the banquet and said reviewing the format for its Tenney. "She (Knight's secre­
Knight also passed on his

canceled. we would never have it again award banquet. 
tary) said coach has thought weekly radio talk show Monday and he would reimburse us for The statement continued: "At 
about this for years and we night. Host Don Fischer said
Indiana lost its final game of all expenses. 
the same time, the athletic de­weren't going to have it this Knight called Monday afternoon the regular season Sunday, 61-"There was no reason given partment has been considering year or in the future. 
and informed him that assistant59, at Purdue, costing the to us at all. Coach Knight didn't a banquet honoring all sports "We just want the public to coaches Norm Ellenberger, RonHoosiers a share of the Big Ten even have the decency to talk to since some of the teams do not know, 'Hey, this is not our fault. Felling and Dan Dakich would
title. And instead of being the us personally. I'm not vindictive, participate in such an event. We just got a phone call this take his place. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All class~ieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
. FND: 2 ties North Quad COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12 New Symerna lower 5b These things are hard to come by. ... NOTICES NEW UNITS-1300 sq. ft.­Top25 Well actually, all you have to do is Can we say .... 
Call & Descnbe X3772 Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -this ... "SCOTT KELLER turns 20
I 
available immediately-call287-25-"Their names are Mr. and Mrs. today??!! I?? Ill" 
I
Typing Service-Experienced typist WANTED 0534 or 271-9268. Suckum" Hey Anna, Your Love Slave -resumes, papers, etc. uses AT&T 24-"Gross, quit it, stop, poopy PENIS!! from the library computer. Epson printer. Call 656-A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE! HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY mouth" basement! 3158. Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 23-Ed's 2 hr mass IT'S HERE! 
Boston/NY City. Super kids, great BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287-22-the music of Sir Robert Marley WAKE IT SHAKE IT TYPING AVAILABLE food, friendly atmosphere. 1 00+ 4989. 21-"guys, Ingrid is sooo hot!" DO IT DAWGIE STYLE Dude, Edweird, PEthan, Hooley, 287-4082. staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, 20-"She's not a snob, she Thermal, & Anton, 
arts/crafts, all land/water sports, Needed-two female students to volunteers" ATTENTION SENIORS: The Thanks for being such great Typing fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for share OAKHILL CONDO for 92-93 19-"Honey, go save muffy from that application deadline for Holy Cross tag-alongs. Y'all weren't as bad as Pickup & Delivery shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, year, and/or summer rental. boy" Associates is this Friday, March 20. we expected, and the 277-7406 photography, computers, rocketry, undergradllaw/grad.Amy or Stacy 18-"Either get a real dog or buy a Get yours in while there's still time. trip definitely wouldn't have 
guitar, radio, video, yearbook, @277-9452 bird" been the same without you. It 
Hey GRACE Men!! newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, 17-the walking Gap jeans ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL was TOTALLY awesome! Spend all your $ on break? RN, more! 16-"hey you college kids, stop the COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED, love, Earn some for rest of the 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP FOR SALE bam bam" FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG the Dawgs semester by delivering newspapers EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., 15-"girls are here, give me a wine BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO P.S. Hey Dude-M-Day is in the dorm. Eastchester, NY 10707. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED cooler" ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY coming!!! Call Kathy X4026 800/955-CAMP. 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 14-"diarrhea of the mouth" INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF 
86 vw....................................$50 13-"of course I clogged her toilet" FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND 
NEED CASH? SUMMER JOBS 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 12-"paddle, man, paddle! Why I PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S KATHARSIS Paper delivery person ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 65 Mustang .......................... $50 don't see a wave ... SHARK" ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID. needed for Grace Hall. PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS Choose from thousands starting 11-"guys, girls can't miss" JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933-THIS BAND WILL ROCK STEPAN Call Kathy x4026 ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS $25. 1 0-michelle tasted her alligator 3499. CENTER AT THE BATTLE OF 
NEAR LAKE PLACID FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals twice THE BANDS. WE PLAY LAST IN FOR ONLY $1499 SPHINX TOURS CALL1-800-786-8373 Details 801-379-2929 Copyright 9-"pass the doughnut, its my hi THE CONTEST AT 11:45 P.M.. ANNOUNCES A 15 DAYS NILE #IN11KJC hemorrhoids" OUR SONGS WILL BE: THE CRUISE INCLUDING AIRFARE, SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE 8-"we can't help our features" g.p. OCEAN BY LED ZEPPELIN, BEEN ON BOARD ONE OF OUR ENVIRONMENT-Pioneer receiver & tape deck for 7-"sit, aim, flush-the management" CAUGHT STEALIN' FROM LUXURY FLOATING FIVE STAR EARN $2500-3500 sale x2322 6-"shoaps get your head out of my "JUNIORS, JUNIORS: JANE'S ADDICTION, UNDER THE HOTELS SAILING BETWEEN National campaign positions to sister's lap" PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE BRIDGE BY RED HOT CHill CAIRO AND ASWAN. All MEALS promote comprehensive recycling, 5-"like gross, he farted on me twice" JOB SEARCH" TOMORROW PEPPERS AND DREAM ON BY INCLUDED FROM OUR stop toxic pollution and sue the Tickets 4-"1 don't know you, I've never seen 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL AEROSMITH. WITNESS THE EXQUISITE CUISINE, PLUS nation's worst polluters. Pos'ns in you, I've never heard of you ...well, 6:30 P.M. PAUL REYNOLDS OF PURGATION. GUITAR: ANDY SWIMMING POOL, BAR AND Chicago, 29 states and D.C. GRATEFUL DEAD TIX -3/23,24 I've heard of you" CAREER AND PLACEMENT ELLISON • VOCALS: JASON DISCO. VISITS TO 15 CITIES TO Call Jamie toll free: 1-800-75-AUBURN HILLS. I have 2 tix for 3-"Do you want to go for a walk or SERVICES. All WELCOME. THOMAS.BASS: GENE SHEIKH* SEE THE PHARAONIC EARTH each show. John 2719165 something? Sure, but I don't know DRUMS: MARCUS VAUGHN* WONDERS. CALL 800-233-4978. about the something." MONUMENTAL SAMBOisms THE LAST SHALL BE FIRST. 
Ex ND staffer and spouse desire to 2-is that cool or what, I wiped 11 A "no falls no balls" skiing 
PERSONAL
Lucky Leprechaun can be seen in rent furnished apartment from ballsweat on a girl" • Stop it You're not that good Are there any "Miners" out there Allegro. Watch for him. Today only. middle of June until your return. 1-"AIII have to lose is four pounds, • more spaghetti? Here Chris interested in attending the UTEP vs. Win some prizes. References, non-smokers. JTW, INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. then I'll be at my optimum weight" • Where did Sinner go now? Evansville Basketball game this 
135lakeview Dr.,Mulberry, Fla. Good rates. Save Money. Call me • That Village was Hamlet? Friday in Dayton? Please call Jose 33860. for a quote 9:30-6:00, P.S. Hats off to the girls whose • I don't see no Jimmy Buffet no at 271-8738.

LOST/FOUND I 
(813) 425-4404. 289-1993. Office near campus. attitude made the trip! where •stick Dwarfs stole our French Bread •t like my Busch hot TOP 20 QUOTES FROM THE "I LOST Wanted: Female roommate(s) to DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO michael, you can always find the please ·sen Gay + Testicles= SAW GARTH BROOKS AT THE 
share apartment for the summer. O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. sweetest honey with me!! yup."Quimbola Men stop for Beaver GRAND OLE OPRY" COUNTRY glasses in Ray-Ban case on Students staying for summer school SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM love, ray-nay Village,CO. MUSIC JAMBOREE BREAK! 2129 between the JACC and or internships ideal. Call 283-4098 ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR ·ww Work For Sex ·which shade of 20.) "Touch me, turn me on, and Keenan. Gold framed. Tortoise for information. 1-800-833-5555. To all ND students: green do you like? burn me down" ear-pieces. HAO will have a meeting on 19.) "I kissed Collin Raye ... Please call Dave x3328 Now taking aplication for part-time We are Strong ! Thursday, March 19, at 7:30pm in Allegro Grand Opening specials twice...did you hear me? I kissed 
employment in a Farley Hall. All interested students today thru Sunday. Collin Rayel" LOST Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop I, myself, cannot. are welcome. Thank you. Check it out! 18.) "That's not how they talk, they 
exp. required. say, 'Her fall down ... her fall down Spalding NBA basketball lost at We are not strong It's finally here! N.D.WOMEN'S CHOIR:practice hard." Stepan Courts on Thurs. before ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Today is the Grand Opening of today@ Sacred Heart,6PM 17.) "Young lady, has it occurred to break on court nearest Stepan -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. You should be with us, feeling like Allegro. Stop by and try to guess (officers mtg in robe room@ 5:30) you that people might be trying to Center. last name is on ball Free transportation! Room & Board! we do ... the number of beans in the jar and sleep?!" (Bianco). Over 8,000 openings. No win some great prizes! TOP 20 QUOTES OF THE "I'M TO 16.) " Hey where's Doug, come on 
experience necessary. Male or ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS: SEXY" CLEARWATER VACATION Doug .... you big DORK!!!" Found Female. For employment program "JOBS, TRAVEL, ADVENTURE! Euchre! Hearts! Mickey! 20. Dishwashers have arms? 15.) "Big sticky gobs of Bavarian 
call Student Employment Services 200+ listings for over 50,0000 Roily? Eternal Gratitude. 19. Eroto-1 wanna be a virgin-Pretzel Puke!" Wilson basketball on same court as at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. positions -national/international. love Earth mania. Is that alcoholic? 14.)" Do the words THELMA and above. I assume someone took the 
Send $4.95 + $1 P&H to 18. What ever you do, don't pull LOUISE mean anything to wrong ball by mistake. I would Renaissance Resources, Box 652, STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA her finger! you? .... .We said NO!" 

FOR RENT 
appreciate exchange. Driggs, ID, 83422 or call 208-354-Info on semester, year, graduate, 17. I eat watermelon! 13.) "Me so MOURNY" 2795." summer and internship programs in 16. I lost it! I really lost it! oh-here it 12.) "Oh Fritz, if you paid $3,000 to Call Joe @ 2064. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and is. have a body part enlarged, you'd be 
219-291-7153. ATTENTION ND/SMC GRADS Melbourne. Programs start at 15. I'm not putting my thing out for wearing tight clothes too!" FOUND: HEADED TO CHICAGO-Have a $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. dinner. 11.) " Kelley, I don't know about this Mechanical Drafting Pencil on the SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL -great apt before Sr Wk-Available 14. Georgian cops come fast! place .... I see a lot of cars with no sidewalk by Farely Hall. 3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE May 1 st-2 bdrms, The lizard King lives on! Down with 13. Who has the keys? Jen? license plates." To indentify and claim, OF FACILITIES, 1 bthrm,fireplace,hardwood the Crustaceans! What?I.I? 1 0.) " I got beer giz on my shirt!" call Chris at X2115 by the Sunday KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. flrs,zoned parking,heart of lincoln 12. Thanks, BITCH. Drink! 9.) "Brian doesn't do THAT!" after break. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD Park,112blk from L,8 min to to the athletic dept.: 11 . He's never seen me IN a 8.) "Love her ... you don't love her, 
& HOME. dwntwn,adj to Depaul,$1000/mo­your time is gonna come swimsuit. you don't even KNOW her!" ······FouND····· CLOSE TO CAMPUS. heat included-Call Chris or Jim 312--led zeppelin 10. I'd get on Will in a second! 7.) "You can't be my first...but you 
pair of GLASSES PAUL232-2794. 296-2924 6-1 0 pm 9. Alii want is SEX, SEX, SEX! CAN be my next!" found in bleachers at St. John's It puts the lotion on its skin, or else 8. The sun makes me horny. 6.) "Garth made my thighs hurt!" basketball game FOR RENT Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award it gets the hose again. 7. There are so many hard 5.) "Dare me to straddle that and 
on Sat. 2-29-92 "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... Winning Hotel, has rooms for pertruding things sticking into me. make him a happy clown?" call x4416 to identify 259-7801 OR 255-5852" Graduation weekend. Located at (Stupid.) 6. I'd me a lot more comfortable 4.) "Alright Bay City, do you want to Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart with my clothes off. have some fun ... do you want to not ···LosT··· 3 Bedroom (12 miles from South Bend) She sings a song and I listen to 5. Sarah-do you have any, um, pay for it? Come with me!" 
-

glasses with Walk to Campus Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 what it says-protection? 3.) "We're not going in there .. that metalic frame $555 Month deposit per room. Send letter with If you want a friend, feed any animal 4. I don't want him, I'd just get on party sucks DOG-DUNG!" 
232 3616 deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., There's so much space, I cut me a him. 2.) "I have a big bed .... and I'm REWARD! Elkhart, IN 46514. piece with some fine wine, 3. Actually, I wasn't looking at his naked!" call Joe at 1208 For Rent It brought peace to my mind in the eyes, I was looking at his penis. 1.) "MEMPHIS LICKS!! I (said with 
5Br. 2 bth house "JUNIORS, JUNIORS: Summertime, 2. He WANTS me! extreme disgust) Found for next semester PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE And it rolled! 1. Nice Ass! What a perfect END to PLUS: a bonus conversation from mini 35mm camera newly remodeled, 1 mile JOB SEARCH" TOMORROW our vacation. It's all BEHIND us the road trip from Nashville to Was found just before from campus. Right behind Lat. 118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL Matt from 54585 Irish Way is DUDE now! Memphis. CHRISTMAS break. Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer 6:30 P.M. PAUL REYNOLDS OF WHO SMELLS GOOD. Forever, Andrea, Adrianna, "Look liza, it 's Highway 13!1 
call 232-8256 CAREER AND PLACEMENT Felicia, Gina, Joanna, Katrina, and "Uh, Kell, that says OLD Highway call Joe 1208 SERVICES. All WELCOME. Schwing!! Suzanna. 13!!" 
--·-·-----.... ---·----~-~-..------·--·----·-·------­

......~........~---.~~~-.-----~~--r---------w.~.-..--._..~---~~---·----------~----------~--------~--------.--.--~------------------~~----·-~·------------· 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TRANSACTIONS NIT SCHEDULE
-
NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 1991-92 (14-16) BASEBALL L,i:NVER NUGGETS-Activated Waller Davts, All Times EST
American League guard, from the injured list. Signed Steve Scheffler. GP-GS FG-FGA FG-FGAPCT PCT AVG CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Placed Dave Johnson. forward, and placed him on the injured list. 
First Round 

PLAYER MIN PCT FT-FTA R Nowlin. Margaret 30-30 31.0 208-369 .564 0-0 .000 83-117 .70!1 8.9 16.6 pitcher, on waivers lor the purpose of giving him SEATTLE SUPERSONICS-Named Tim Wednesday, March 16 
his unconditional release. Grgurich assistant coach. Alabama-Birmingham (20-8) at Tennessee CLEVELAND INDIANS-Released Dave Walsh. FOOTBALLMarciniak, Michelle 30-16 26.2 137-344 .398 11-56 .196 75-97 .73:3 3.4 12.0 
Hayaben, Comalita 29-19 25.5 143-307 .466 0-0 .000 48-78 . 61!; 5.5 11.5 (16-14), 7:30 p.m. pitcher. National Football League
Orlosky, Sherri 30-20 22.5 106-244 .434 23-56 .411 16-20 .BOll 2.8 8.4 Western Michigan (2t-6) at Notre Dame Bowen, Letitia 27-19 22.5 75-159 .472 0-1 .000 41·54 .75!1 7.6 7.1 (14-14), 7:30 p.m. 
DETROIT TIGERS-Optioned John DeSilva, NFL-Fined the Buffalo Bills $5.000 because Washington, Coqueae24-19 27.5 65-t7t .380 13-48 .271 35-48 .72!1 3.8 7.4 pitcher, andogna, first baseman, to Toledo of the Thurman Thomas failed to show up at a medta Virginia (15-13) at Villanova (14-t4),
Knapp, Kristin 25-5 11.4 40-99 .404 2-7 .286 19-28 .6711 2.8 4.0 International League. Optioned Rudy Pembenon, session prior to the Super Bowl . Leary, Kara 23-15 21.6 30-65 .462 3-4 .750 18-30 .600 22 3.5 outfielder, to London of the Eastern League. Sent MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed James Saxon . 
7:30p.m. 

Gomez, Audrey 15-0 21.1 24-72 .333 0-6 .000 22-30 . 73:! 2.4 4.7 Steve Ontiveros, pitcher, and Steve Carter. fullback. and Doug Wellsandt. tight end . Western Kentucky (21-10) at Kansas State Smith, Dionne 21-1 6.7 13-28 .464 0-0 .000 9-19 .47•1 2.5 1.7 
outlielder, to their minor league camp lor NEW YORK JETS-Signed AI loon. wtde (15-13), 6 p.m. 
Alexander, Andrea 26-4 8.9 12-35 .343 0-0 .000 4-14 .28() 1.4 1.1 reassignment. receiver, to a series of three one-year contracts. Pillsburgh (17-t5) at Penn State (2t-7), Jones, Tootoe 6-1 12.2 11-23 .478 0-0 .000 5-7 .71•1 3.3 4.5 KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Sent Archie Corbin, World League of American Football 9:30p.m. Rupe, Majemca 19-t 6.0 9·21 .429 0-0 .000 5-7 .71<1 1.6 1.2 Hector Wagner and Alex Sanchez, pitchers; Lance BIRMINGHAM FIRE-Released Tony Allard . 
Minnesota (16-t5) at Washington State Fitzgerald, Deb 3-0 5.7 4-11 .364 0-1 .000 1·2 .500 0.7 3.0 Jennings and Eric Pappas. catchers; Sean Berry. running back; Terry Gray, guard; Ron Heard, wide 

(21-10), 12 mid. TOTALS 
Jose Mota, Joe Vitiello, Jell Conine and Phil Hiatt. receiver. and Stephen Weatherspoon. linebacker Thursday March 19
infielders; and Harvey Pulliam and Kerwin Moore. FRANKFURT GALAXY-Released Robert OPPONENTS 30 6075 778-1871 .416 86-251 .343 492-750 .65E> 36.971.1 outlielders, to their minor league camp lor Claiborne and James Dixon, wide receivers; Erwin Wisconsin-Green Bay (25-4) at Manhanan reassignment. Grabisna. defensive end; Spencer Hammond. (23-6), 7:30 p.m. SCORE BY PERIODS: tat 2nd OTt OT2 TOH,L MINNESOTA TWINS-Optioned Orlando Lind, linebacker; John Hopkins. punier-kicker; Gerald Butler (2t-9) at Purdue (16-t4), 7:30p.m. 1128 10 pitcher; Mike Durant, catcher. and Edgar Naveda at 
NOTRE DAME 30 6075 877-1948. 450 52-179 .29t 381-551 .691 44.372.9 
OPPONENTS 975 21 2134 Richmond (22-7) Florida (16-12). 7:30 NOTRE DAME 1026 1129 17 16 2181! 
Hudson, running back; Stephan Maslo. kicker. and
and Jack Smrth, Infielders, to Portland of the Pacilic 
David Senczyszyn, tackle. p.m.
Coast League. Sent Richard Garces and Alan 
LONDON MONARCHS-Released Damon Rhode Island (20-9) at Vanderbilt ( t5-t4),
Newman, pitchers, and Chao Garcia, infielder, to
RECORD: OVERALL HOME AWAY NEUTRAL Baldwin and Michael Harris, guards; Joe Brunson 8 p.m.
their minor league camp lor reassignment.
ALL GAMES (14-16) (7-7)( 4-9) (3-0) and Milford Hodge, defensive ends; Marvin 
(8·4) (5-10) (3-3) (0·0) NEW YORK YANKEES-Placed Alvaro Espinoza. Southern Illinois (22-7) at Boston CollegeCONFERENCE Hargrove, wide receiver, and Melvin Waters 
(2-6) (30) shortstop, on waivers for the purpose of giving him (16-t3), 8 p.m
NON-CONFERENCE (6-t2) (1-6) running back. ' 
his uncondrtional release. Sent Torey Lovullo. third Long Beach State (t6-11) at Texas
MONTREAL MACHINE-Released Darryl Hamsbaseman; Klki Hernandez and Dave Sax. catchers; 
Christian (22-10), 6;30 p.m.Roberto Munoz. pitcher. and Robart Eenhoorn. 
and Greg Paterra, running backs; Joe Johnson. 
cornerback; Kevin Lightner. guard. and Steve Louisiana Tech (23-7) at New Mexico (t8­
shortstop, to their minor league camp for 
Williams, wide receiver. NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Released IRISH BASEBALL I reassignment. 12), 9:30 p.m. 
Ball State (24-8) at Utah (20-t 0), 9:35 Anthony Hardy and Curtis McManus wideNational League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-Optioned Pat Gomez. p.m.
receivers; Tony Jellrey, running back; Jell
pitcher, to Richmond ol the International League. Arizona State (t6-t3) at UC Santa Barbara
Stephenson, defensive end, and Dennis Tripp,
Optioned Dennis Burlingame and Man Murray. (20-6), 10:30 p.m.
NO BASEBALL 
delenstve tackle. 

pitchers; Javier Lopez, catcher; Ramon Caraballo. 
Friday March 20OHIO GLORY-Released African Grant and John

infielder; and Melvin Nieves. outfielder. to
PROBABLE LINEUP: 
Hardy, cornerbacks; and Eric Snelson. linebacker. James Madison (21-10) at Rutgers (t5­
Greenville of the Southern League. Sent Ryan 
ORLANDO THUNDER-Released Paul Frazier. 14), 7:30 p.m.
Klesko. first baseman; Kevin Collman. pitcher; 
running back; Murray Garren, defensive tackle·
Brian Deak and Tyler Houston. catchers; Eddte 
Kevin Guidry, cornerback; Dawaine Jones:Poe. PLAYER 1992 SlATS 
Williams. third baseman; and Jell Manto, inlietder· Second Round Bobl Lisanti .211. 0 HR. 2 RBI 
fullback, and Tony Massey, linebacker. 
catcher, to their minor league camp lor Monday. March 23 or Man Haas .250, 0 HR. 9 RBI 
. SACRAMENTO SURGE-Released Henry
reassignment. 
TBA, at campus stiesBrtnson and Saute Sapolu, delenstve backs; VictortB Joe Binkiewicz .298, 2 HR, 9 RBI 

MONTREAL EXPOS-Optioned Bill Risley and 
Tuesday, March 24 2B Greg Layson .296, 0 HR, 3 RBI Floyd, running back; Kyle Freeman, linebacker;
Pete Young, prtchers, and Greg Colbrunn. catcher. 
Derek Holloway, wide receiver. and Bennte TBA. at campus silas or Bobby Birk .308, o HR. 1 RBI 
to Indianapolis of the American Assoctation. 
Jennings. tight end. 

Optioned Tim Laker, catcher, to Harrisburg of the
ss Craig Counsell .295, 1 HR. 7 RBI 
SAN ANTONIO RIDERS-Released Charlie Third Round
Eastern League. Sent Blaine Beally and Dean
3b Cory Mee .317. 1 HR. 7 RBI Darrington. tight end; Dennis Lee Johnson.
Wilkins. pitchers, and Rob Katzaroff. outfielder. to Wednesday, March 25 
cornerback; Roderick Manmng, linebacker; MtkeLF Steve Verduzco .152. 0 HR. 2 RBI 
their minor league camp lor reassignment. TBA, at campus sites CF Dan Bautch .286, 2 SB. 5 BB 
Nord, tackle; Dwight Pickens, wide receiver. and
PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Traded John Smtley. Thursday. March 26
Man Ruhland, delensive tackle. 

or Paul Failla .205, t HR. 2 RBI 
pitcher, to the Minnesota Twins for Denny Neagle. 
COLLEGE TBA. at campus sites 
RF Eric Danapilis .333, 1 HR. 13 RBI 
pitcher, and Midre Cummings, outfielder. Optioned 
CONNECTICUT COLLEGE-Named Robert
Albert Martin outfielder. and Joe Ausanto and
DH Craig DeSensi .133. 0 HR. 3 RBI 
Malekoll director of athletics. Semifinals or Pat Leahy .346, 2 HR, 6 RBI 
Victor Cole. pitchers, to Buffalo of the Amencan 
FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON-Annnounced the Monday, March 30
Association. Optioned Sco11 Bullell and Daryl
p Chris Michalak 0.69, 26 IP, 15 K resignation of Buddy Mahar. assistant women's
Ratliff, outfielders; Mandy Romero, catcher; and 
basketball coach. 

Pat Leahy 0.93, t9.3 IP, t6 K Ben Shelton first baseman. to Carolina of the Championship
NEW HAMPSHIRE-Fired Jim Boylan. men'sDavid Sinnes 2.63, 13.71P. tO K Southern League. Sent Eddie Dixon, Brian Fisher. Wednesday. April
basketball coach. 

Bias Minor and Mark Petkovsek. pitchers. to their 
NEW MEXICO-Announced the restgnation ofminor league camp for reassignment. 
Pete Langdon, women's gy'mnastics coach.
BASKETBALL 
Named Man Arnon interim women's gymnastiCS
National Basketball Association 
coach. 

NBA-Fined Larry Nance of the Cleveland 
OREGON-Fired Don Monson. men's basketball
Cavaliers $2,500 for flagrantly elbowing Dikambe 
coach. 

Mutumbo of Denver in a game on March 15. 

The Center for Social Concerns 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS (For information: 239-5293) 
Mar. 18 -Wednesday 4:30p.m.
mmDIITI
-..m• Mar. 19-Thursday
•rnlfru;.tw 
7:30p.m. (Library Auditorium) 
Mar. 20-Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m. 
7:30p.m. (Epworth Memorial United Methodist Church) 
Mar. 21 -Saturday 2:00-5:30 p.m. 
Mar. 23 -Monday 
7:00-8:30 p.m. 
6:30-8:30 p.m. 
Mar. 24-Tuesday 
6:00-7:45 p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
Mar. 26-Thursday 
11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. 
8:00p.m.
-

Apr. I -Wednesday 6:00p.m.
=­
(St. Hedwig's Memorial Center) Post-Graduate Volunteer Opportunities 
Information Meetin1~ 
"God's Love Experienced in Community" -An 
evening with Henri J. M. Nouwen and L'Arche and 
Emmaus CompaniorLs 
Friday Forum for FIU:ulty & Staff: "Overcoming 
Polarization in Technical Controversies" ­
Chris Hamlin 
"Celebrating the Vari:ety of Our Gifts"-Worship Service and Reception with Henri J. M. Nouwen 
and L'Arche and Enunaus Companions 
"Listening to God's Call to Noisy World: 
Discipleship and the Spiritual Life" -Reflection and Prayer followed by a supper and farewell celebration -Henri J. M. Nouwen and L'Arche and 
Emmaus Companions 
Washington Seminar Followup 
Cultural Diversity Seminar Followup 
Appalachian Seminar Followup 
Archbishop Romero Lecture -'The Pastoral Role of 
the Catholic Church in Latin America: A Comparison ­
16th Century Spain and the 20th Century U.S.A" Edward T. Brett, LaRoche Collegll-Cosponsored by the Institute for Pastoral & Social Ministry & Kellogg Institute 
Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Catholic Worker 
"What Can Students Do for Peace & Justice at Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's?" A panel discussion with representatives of Women United for Justice & Peace, Pax Christi, Amnesty International ND, Students for Environmental Action, and Women's Alliance (SMC) 
Sesquicentennial Celebration for South Bend Partners of the Center for Social Concerns -An expression of appreciation to those in the community with whom Center volunteers work Apr. 2 -Thursday 
Apr. 3 -Friday 12:15-1:00 p.m Apr. 8 -Wednesday 
4:30p.m. Apr. 9 -Thursday 
11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. 4:30p.m. Apr. 11 -Saturday Apr. 12-Sunday 
10:00 a.m.-Noon 
Apr. 14-Tuesday 4;30 p.m. Apr. 16-Thursday Apr. 19-Sunday 
Easter April 23 -Thursday 
Apr. 23-24 Apr. 29-Wednesday 9:30 a.m.-2:00 p.m. 
May 11-June 1 
May 16 -Saturday 
10:30 a.m. June 4-5-6 
June 19 Friday (Old St. Patrick's Church) 
Signup for Juniors for Senior Rap Up Friday Forum for Faculty and Staff 
Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of Mexico Service­Learning Project Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
South Bend Christmas in April 
Summer Service Projects Orientation Workshop 
Post-Graduate Volunteer Opportunities Information Meeting L'Arche/Daybreak Toronto Trip begins (to Apr. 20) Alumni Service Week through Apr. 25 May Seminar Orientation IPSM Advisory Council Meeting CSC Advisory Board Meeting 
Mexico Service-Learning Project (Service-Learning in Oaxaca, Mexico co-sponsored by Maryknoll) 
Volunteer Send-Off Ceremony (Washington Hall) followed by Reception (Ibeodore's, La Fortune) 
1992 Alumni Reunion (See Reunion program for CSC­sponsored and esc co-sponsored events) 
Chicago Appreciation Dinner --Honoring those who have facilitated and/or participated in CSC Chicago-area programs, and marking 25th Anniversary of Urban Plunge 
Wednes9ay, March 18, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Irish golfers capture 11th at Northern lllinios Invitational 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens' golf team picked up right where they left ofT. 
In the fall, the Irish were up and down all season, setting a school record one week and fal­tering a week later. 
Over spring break the Irish traveled to the Northern Illinois Intercollegiate Invitational in Tampa, Florida and got on the roller coaster again. 
In the first round last Thursday, the Irish fired a 324 at the Pebble Creek Golf Club, 
UCLA 
from page 20 
the Bruins had their inside force capable of relieving pressure from Stephens. 
A first-team All-American on UCLA's national champion volleyball team, Williams (21.6 ppg, 14.0 rpg, 2.8 steals) led which was good for fifth place heading into Friday's final round. 
Friday the 13th wasn't kind to the Irish, however, as they ballooned to a 349, to earn a disappointing 11th place finish. 
"We were really in good posi­tion to make a move (after the first round)," said Irish coach Tom Hanlon. "We just didn't play well in the second round." 
Fatigue could have been a factor in the teams poor per­formance. The tournament wasn't until Thursday and Friday, so the team was able to 
the Bruins in 15 of the 20 games she played in. When Stephens was sidelined, Williams picked up the scoring slack as well, averaging 25.5 points in UCLA's last six games. 
"She's been their go-to player down on the block," noted McGraw. 
Senior DeDe Mosman (11.5 ppg) is the Bruins' top three­point shooting threat, hitting 39 percent from long distance. The rest of UCLA's starting lineup 
Read Only HYou're Planning To: 
~Spend the Summer in Omaha (or nearby) 
~{Take Summer courses 
Then attending Creighton University Summer Sessions makes a lot of sense. Creighton offers: 
• 
Five Summer sessions to choose from-~-­Day and Evening classes c~E.IGJ.( 


• 
More than 200 Summer courses 

• 
Small classes ~ 

• 
Reduced summer tuition. ~~ 


Nationally Recognized <::; 01L1..qft~ Creighton University has been ~ ' fVE named to "America's Best Colleges" ~~RS\~ 
by U.S. News & World Report for five consecutive years. 
Call or write today for more information and your copy of the Summer Sessions '92 Bulletin. 
(402) 280..2843 or toll free 1..800..637A279 
CREIGHTON 



UNIVERSITY 
2500 California Omaha, NE 68178 
practice on some of Florida's best courses in the five days prior to the event. On three of those days the Irish played 18 holes and on the other two they played 36, so they may have simply been worn out by Friday. 
"We have no excuses," Hanlon commented. "It's a shame, though, because I had visions of us getting close to the winners." 
Central Florida was the easy winner, firing a 617 to finish 20 strokes ahead of second-place Iowa State. liz Early paced the Knights, scorching Pebble Creek to finish with a four under par 
consists of six-foot-four senior Lynn Kamrath (7. 7 ppg, 6.4 rpg) and junior guard Nicole Anderson (8. 7 ppg, 4. 5 assists. 
2.6 steals). 
Off the bench, three sophomores-Amy Jalewalia 
(9.1 ppg, 4.4 rpg), Detra Lockhart (5.4 ppg) and Gene VanOostveen (1.5 ppg)-garner the majority of playing time. 
But even though the Irish are seeded 12th in the Midwest, they have no intention of backing down to the two-time national champions. 
"We just have to play relaxed and confidently, because when we do, we shoot the ball very well," said McGraw. "We're playing eKtremely well right now, and I feel like if we play our game, we have a chance to win." 
If Notre Dame is to pull the upset, it will need a big game from MCC first-teamer Margaret Nowlin (16.6 ppg, 8.9 rpg), who led the team in 18 of its 30 games in scoring. The MCC tournament MVP last weekend, Nowlin helped lead the Irish past Xavier to win the MCC tourney and the league's 140. Northern Illinois' Nicole Jeray was her toughest competition, finishing with a 154. 
Notre Dame's Kathy Phares spent last semester in England, but she's back now and she led the Irish with a 162. Alicia Murray, a standout during the fall, was next with a 165. Allison Wojnas rounded out Notre Dame's top three with a 172. 
Despite the disappointing second round, Hanlon sees im­provement in his young team. 
"I'm pleased overall," he ex-

automatic bid to the NCAA's. 
"Nowlin has developed into the type of player we expected when we recruited her," praised Moore. 
However, it was the insertion of sophomore Kara Leary into 
r···--······------·----~
1 THE THOMAS J. WHITE 
I CENTER : ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT I PRESENTS 
I : PROFESSOR JOHN M. FINNIS 1 UNIVERSITY COLLEGE I OXFORD, ENGLAND 
I ON : "JUSTICE INTENTION AND 1ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF LAW" : THURSDAy, MARCH 19 
1 12:00 NOON 
L.13QQ~~~~J-:~--~~Ii~'lt.. •• ! 





An Tostal1992 
GENERAL MEETING TODAY 
March I8th at 9pm in the Notre Dame room 2nd floor of LaFortune 
MANDATORY ATTENDANCE Be involved in the best college spring festival ever! 
Final event assignments will be made. 
For more info. call Mr. An Tostal (Matt Bomberger) at %39·7757 or at Z83·I6ZZ 
I 
I : I 
I : 1 I 
I : 
II 
1 

plained. "We've come a long way and we're improving all the time." 
Consistency is Hanlon's goal for the upcoming season, which begins April 4 and 5 at Indiana. If the Irish can consistently shoot in the 320-range, he be­lieves they will be able to com­pete with the tough Big Ten teams that dominate their schedule. 
"We're hopeful that we can prove once again that we be­long with the Big Ten and some of the other top teains," he added. 
the starting lineup back in late January that catapulted the Irish into the NCAA's. Although averaging only three points and three assists per game, her unselfish play allowed backcourt mates Sherri Orlosky and Michelle Marciniak to flourish. 
Orlosky (8.4 ppg) has come on strong late in the season·, scoring in double figures six of Notre Dame's last nine games and earning MCC all­tournament honors. She hit 41 percent of her three-point shots during the season. 
Marciniak (12.0 ppg) struggled as a starter, but has thrived since taking over the sixth man role. 
"It was just one of several ideas, and it just happened to work," said McGraw. "Michelle has adapted very well." 
And Notre Dame has adapted quite nicely to the idea of playing UCLA. 

Hey Baseball Fans! 
P A announcer needed for 
otre Dame baseball games If you are interested, please submit a tape to: Bill SchollJl5ll Sports Marketing Dept. 
JACC 
Notre Dame,_IN 46556 
-
, 


:>age 16 The Observer Wednesday, March 18, 1992 
< SPORTSBRIEFS 
1Sportsbrlefs are accepted In writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone 
·number, and the dates the brief is to run. 
•The 
Observer is looking for Saint Mary's sports writers. \nyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports for The lbserver should contact the Saint Mary's Sports Editor, Nicole McGrath, at The Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Cheerleeding 
tryouts will be htlld this Friday and Saturday at 7 pm in the basketball arena of the JACC. 

•ND/SMC 
Women's Lacrosse is starting practice on Wednesday, March 18. Practice will run Sundays through Fridays from 4-6 pm and will be held outside next to the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. All new members welcome. Any questions, call Jennifer at 284-5341. 1NIT Tickets for the Notre Dame-Western Michigan game on Wednesday. March 18 at 7:30pm at the JACC are available at the Gate 10 ticket window, both dining halls, and Ticketmaster (219) 272-7979. Tickets are $14 for lower arena seasts, $8·for bleacher -.eats, and $4 for student seats. 

•32 
Team campus soccer registration deadline has been extended. Entries will be accepted until Friday at Rec Sports. 

•Mixed 
doubles tennis mixer at Eck Tennis Pavilion on Monday nights. Sign up in the Rec Sports office or call 239-6100 before Friday at noon. Pairings will be displayed at Eck and play begins <tt 9 pm. This is not a tournament.


-•The NO cricket club will have practice today at 9 pm at Loftus. :\11 are welcome to attend. 
•Tae Kwon Do Club members competed in the Indiana State ehampionships over break. Lisa Cobol took a silver and Matt Zinno 
took a bronze. 
Marten 
from page 20 
favor, the Irish could be inspired to victory. 
3) The UCLA game 
For myself and hopefully ev­·ryone else who went, the ~arne was a blast; college 'Jasketball at its finest. That is he way all the games should he, the crowd on its feet, the ntensity high, and the stands ·ull. At more traditional Jasketball powerhouses like ndiana and Duke, following he respective teams has 
IJecome a religion of sorts. :·hat's the way it should be at 

Track 
rampage 20 
Sophomore Mike McWilliams LDd senior Patrick Kearns ran n the 5000-meter run and both :Jlaced within the top 15. \.1cWilliams, a cross country \11-American, finished seventh while Kearns finished in ·leventh place. In the 1000-me­ter run, senior co-captain Brian 
Notre Dame too. I came from a high school where basketball was hot and seats in the gym were hard to come by and frankly, I miss the spirit of it all. 
2) John MacLeod 
In his first year as head coach, MacLeod has done an incredible job turning 1\ otre Dame into a faster paced basketball squad. So far this year, the Irish have been able to run and gun with the best of them. USC, North Carolina, and UCLA, to name a few. MacLeod deserves to be supported in his first post-season effort as a Notre Dame coach. ...and the number one reason to 
Peppard notched another sev=--place for the Irish. With a time­
enth place for the Irish with a time of 2:28.89. 
"Throughout the year, we said we'd key on the IC4A meet and qualify as many distancers 
as possible," said Schneider.
"Most of the distance guys qualified. We dido 't perform as well as we wanted to. We vvere happy with some races, but it was not as good as it could have been." 
Clark was the only sprinter to of 6.48, Clark finished eighth in the 55-meter dash. 
The outdoor season starts 
this weekend with the Florida State relays. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
E 

A CONTEMPORARY CAFE WITH A TOUCH OF THE OLD WORLD 

WEDNESDAY 

MARCH 18, 1992 
CONTEST AND PRIZES ENTERTAINMENT GIVEAWAYS 
MARCH 18-22, 1992 SPECIAL PRICES ON SELECTED ITEMS 
OPEN: 7:30AM UNTIL 2:00AM-MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY 
10:00 AM UNTIL 2:00AM-SATURDAY AND SUNDAY LOCATED IN THE LOWER LEVEL OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER
THURSDAY, APRIL 16 7:30phl Joyce A.C.C. 
Tickets available at all Ticketmaster outlets including L.S.Ayres and the University of Notre Dame ~;UL_ CHARGE BY PHONE: 219-272-7979 ~ 
NIT 
from page 20 
second post-season trip in the school's history. 
"We have had a great sea­son,:· Bronco head coach Bob Donewald said. "I am delighted that we are able to continue to play. It is a great way to reward the players." 
Donewald points to three reasons for his team's turnaround. 
He claims that last season the foundations for the Broncos' success were laid, and the play­ers which are back from that team have improved tremen­dously. 
He also cites the addition of four players-Sanders and fel­low freshman Shawn Jackson, who have shared time at point guard, and Grayson and McGee, the Broncos' starting forwards. 
Grayson, a senior who also plays football, decided to be­come a two-sport athlete this season, and McGee, a junior, is a Division II transfer. 
go to the NIT game tonight... 
1) The seniors 
Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet, LaPhonso Ellis, and Keith Tower have been thrilling crowds all year with their basketball skills. Several if not all these fine athletes will probably be selected in the up­coming NBA draft. This might be the last time to see them before they become big time stars. See the stars of tomorrow at the JACC today! Go to the Notre Dame-Western Michigan basketball game. That's it. You may not agree with one or all of the the reasons, but nonetheless, go to the game and support your 

Smoking Stinks! Don•t Do It 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the . University of Notr_e Dame for college graduates mterested m explonng the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Daimon Sweet 
Due to the Broncos' lack of success in recent years, they have not drawn as much atten­tion as some of the other MAC teams, such as Ball State and Eastern Michigan, who both reached the NCAA's Sweet 16 as the conference's representative the past two years. 
This could help Western Michigan tonight, as Notre Dame has struggled against lesser-known opponents. The most glaring example of this was the 72-70 loss to Detroit­Mercy on February 4 at the JACC. 
However, MacLeod does not think this will happen to his team tonight. 
"Our players learned their lesson. They are aware of how important it is to be 100 per­cent ready no matter who the opponent is," MacLeod ex­plained. 
"We better be ready {for Western Michigan) because we can't afford not to be." 

~-------------~--~-~ -----­
--------·--------------------~--~ Wednesday, March 18, 1992 'i -:-oone::nav. Marr '' ·,~The Observer 
page 17 

Notre Dame places three wrestlers in NCAA tourney 
By JIM VOGL 
wrestlers in their 
Assistant Sports 
respective weight
Editor 
classes. All­American statusFor a few goes to the topNotre Dame 
eight.
wrestlers, spring "In a way, itbreak will come 
helps out that 
a week late. 
we're going home
Marcus 
for nationals,"
Gowens, J.J. 
said Weaver. "ItMcGrew and A gives incentive in

Chuck Weaver Marcus Gowens front of my family J.J. McGrew 
left yesterday for and friends and the hometown Regionals, live in Del City, atheir home state for the NCAA crowd." 
suburb of Oklahoma City.
Championships in Oklahoma 
Irish head coach Fran 
Gowens returns for the thirdCity on Thursday, Friday and 
McCann concurred, "It's great 
straight year after defeating
Saturday. 
for our Oklahoma kids going sixth-ranked Mike Psado of
The three advanced past the 
back home. It's important to 
Marquette, 6-4. The match wasWest Regionals in Cedar Falls, them and their families." 
a sign of progress for Gowens,
Iowa on March 7, for being 
Gowens and Weaver, both 
who lost to Psado earlier in the recognized among the top 32 
first-place finishers in the year. 
The party isn't over! Tonight (Yes Wednesday!) St. Pat's Day Party continues at 

GREAT SPECIALS KARAOKE 
AND MUCH MORE! 
1.0. Required open 9:00 p.m.-z:oo a.m. 
Gowens comes their divisions,in with more and finished 
confidence and second to host 
motivation 
Northern 

compared to last Illinois. 
year, when he lost "As far as that 
to the eventual goes, that's 
runner-up-, Iowa's probably the 
Terry Brands. best we've 
Brands will be the done," McCann 
favorite this said. "But we 
season, coming in were dis­
with a 29-0 record. appointed in the 
All nine of his fact that we 
Buckeye teammates also didn't get more people to the 
qualified for the finals this year. finals." 
Weaver, ranked 18th in the Junior Jamie Boyd (at 142)
nation at heavyweight, will and seniors Todd Tomazic (177) 
make his first trip to the finals. and Tom Salvino (190) were all 
He cruised to the finals in dom­one point away from winning
inating fashion, including a 7-0 their matches in the Regional
win and a second round pin. finals. 
He also threw 6-foot-5, 260 Also, freshman Brain Murphy 
pound Justin Green all over the finished second in the Region 
mat for a 3-2 win in the finals. but was jilted by the selection 
"I felt the kid should have committee. "The kid he lost to 
been disqualified for stalling was runner-up in the NCAA's a 
because he kept backing off," fifth-year kid from Northern 
said McCann in explaining the Iowa. We thought Brian had 
deceptively low score. the ability and the desire," said 
McCann believes Weaver's McCann. 
biggest asset is his endurance. But Murphy, who was 8-4 in 
"He's in good shape. We put limited action on the season, 
him through hard practice and fell victim to lack of recognition 
he's got some good guys to and the politics that tradition­
work with." ally work against true fresh­
McGrew, a 177-pound men. 
sophomore, finished second in McCann feels confident that 
the regionals and will be mak­his three wrestlers will be 
ing his second NCAA ready both mentally and Championship appearance. physically. "All this break 
"It's hard going there for the we've been doing sprints at five first time with 15,000 people in the morning and we've been screaming and 12 mats going. going hard in the afternoon. Experience always pays," said "But at this stage in the McGrew, who admitted being a game, everybody's equal now. bit intimidated last year. He It all comes down to who has won his first match, but lost the the biggest heart and the most next three. desire." 
In team standings at the McCann hopes their home­Regionals, the Irish placed nine coming will be the decidingwrestlers in the top four in edge. 
fensive team, and they really showed up today." Co-captains Amy Fulsom and Ruth Kmak From page 18 turned in outstanding defensive play at catcher and shortstop, 
Linn (4-4) surrendered only respectively. three hits and three walks in While Bowling Green commit­nine innings. Simmons also ted seven errors in the second went the duration, scattering game alone, the Irish were seven hits while walking one. charged with only one miscue She also credited her defensive all day, that coming after the support, "We have a solid de-winning run had scored. 


Vogl 

WLAF names site of championship 
MONTREAL (AP) -The The site of the World Bowl World League of American was first announced a few days 
Football said Tuesday that its before Christmas, but Montreal championship game will be president Roger Dore got into a played at Montreal's Olympic squabble with Quebec'sStadium. Department of Tourism over 
Seniors: Did you meet that special someone over break? 

LAST CHANCE SENIOR FORMAL TICKET SALES 
Wednesday 3/18 Theodore's 6-9 p.m. Thursday 3/19 Theodore's 5 -7 p.m. 
how much money the govern­
ment would contribute to the 
game. The government hacked 
out, but Quebec announced 
Tuesday that it agreed to put 
up $125,000 plus another 
$50,000 to cover any shortfall 
in private sponsorship. 
"I never proposed to the gov­ernors to hold it in another city but we had to consider that possibility," said Michael Huyghue, a WLAF vice presi­dent. "We could have had it in New York and it would have cost less because the league of­fices are already there. 
"This will be a unique oppor­tunity for Montreal. We've in­vited the owners of the NFL teams and we expect all 28 to be there. Montreal could take advantage of that to establish business contacts or to help their cause for any future NFL expansion." 
-

The Machine begins its sec­ond season on Saturday against the Riders at San Antonio. They play their first home game March 28 against the Orlando Thunder. 
!Recycle! 
-------~-~-~----~ 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, March 18, 1992 
Lacrosse to face Lake~ Forest following dissapointing road trip 
By George Dohrmann two goals and an assist. The Forest," said sophomore Randy win. The Irish knotted the tallied three assists. Sports Writer Irish have dominated the series Colley. "It will be a real test of score at ten with 7:38 The third game of the road since its inauguration, and will our character if we can come remaining, but the Wildcats trip, placed the Irish up against 
The Notre Dame lacrosse re­be looking for their eleventh back with a win." reeled off four goals for the win. a young Georgetown team. The turns home tomorrow to face win in eleven tries. Irish wasted three goals by Lake Forest after dropping On March seventh Notre Following the loss to the Sullivan, falling 10-6 to the three matches on their East Lake Forest could give the Dame took on a highly regarded Wildcats was a matchup against Hoyas and to 1-3 on the season. Coast road trip. Irish more trouble this season, Villanova squad, and nearly a scrappy University of 
due to the fragile emotional pulled a stunning upset. After Maryland Baltimore-County "It was a long frustrating 
Lake Forest proved to be an state that the Irish are in after jumping out to a quick 4-1 lead, squad. UMBC toppled the Irish week," said Colley. "We're a easy challenge for the Irish last dropping three straight on the Villanova closed the gap to 7-6 13-7, despite strong offensive young team and it showed in season, falling 18-3 in the 1990-East coast. at the midway point. The lead efforts by Brain Mayglothing, the games." 1991 season. Notre Dame was didn't last, as Villanova who had a hand in all but one led last year by Brian Schirf and "Hopefully we will be able to exploded in the second half, of Notre Dame's goals. The ju­The Lake Forest match takes Mike Sullivan who each tallied bounce back against Lake scoring ten goals to net a 14-10 nior scored three goals and place at 3:00 pm at Loftus. 
Irish softball drops two at home 
By JIM VOGL 
Missy Clay battled Linn by foul-Assistant Sports Editor ing off good pitches, then found what she wanted and placed it 
Frozen, solid-that explains between short and third. the Notre Dame softball team's "I came out throwing strikes offensive and defensive perfor­and still had my strength," said mance Tuesday, as Bowling Linn, who calmly retired the 
I 

-
Green came_ in and swept them, side and continued to mow 3-0 and 1-0. down the opposition. 
The two losses suffered at a Notre Dame head Brian brisk Notre Dame Softball Field Boulac sent his most experi­dropped the Irish season record enced hurler to the mound to 8-6, while Bowling Green again in the ninth. But as the 
A E 
evened its record at 3-3. All I sun was setting on the blistery three of their wins have come Missy Linn field, it also set on the Irish against Notre Dame. Carrie Miller. Designated-hitter hopes. In the first game, the Irish Kolleen Kupchak led oti with a Ninth-place hitter Missy Clay 
offense managed only two hits double and later scored on singled, collecting both hits off off Falcon senior Jody Record, Rachel Highfill's double. With Linn so far. A passed ball ad­
NOTRE DAME 

who also shut out Notre Dame two outs, Karen Brown singled vanced Clay to second, and in the season opener two weeks home Highfill. Kopchek bunted her to third. ! DON"TMISS ago. The Falcons' capped their Finally, Linn surrendered the I THE ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Notre Dame threatened only scoring in the third as Highfill game-winner to Karen I twice. Third-baseman Debbie again came through with an Applebaum. this Thursday, March 19 Boulac bounced to third in the RBI single. Staci Alford re­Again in the second game, the Tom Dahill. ND Professor John Kennedy perfonning 
I 

third inning, then lined out to lieved and shut down Bowling Irish offense provided littleII Icenter in the fifth, both with Green for the rest of the game. support. Flyers' junior Amy basement lounge two outs and runners on second Irish senior Missy Linn set the Simmons frustrated several LaFortune Student Center 
and third. tone early in the second game, Notre Dame rallies. Freshman 9:00 r M.-1 :00 A.M "We hit the ball hard all striking out the lead-off batter Sara Hayes (twice) and sopho-~ I night, but right to them," said Kupchak. Linn continued to mo.re Cristy Connoyer ~a~e OPEN MICROPHONE 
j

Lisa Miller. dominate Flyer batters, as she solid COntact, only resultmg 10 STUDENT I'ARTICIPATION ENCOURAm.D Bowling Green jumped ahead held them hitless until the sixth. inning-ending outs. I with two runs in the first off Bowling Green center-fielder 
see SOFTBALL!page17 ""-------------------­
Modern Marian Apparitions Video Presentations 

Followc~d by two speakers. 
Wednesday, March 18 7:30pm 
-
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
---~~~----------~----~------­
------------~~~-~-~----­


Today 
Thursday, March 18, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 

BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~OM. ON l \.I~V[ ~( CAL'H\-.1, "WE. l=r._c\ ~~~ 1\.\tst. -­
t-'Ol£'t TO B\J'I t>. BN-IDS 11~\'ffi'I \(Ill£) n\911-CI-\\U)\-\000 I'S SO S~lto.N-WOR'S~IP.NG, SR~ \~ R\'1\l,._\. S'Elf-~Rif\CE D\S\\1.\,lS\CNI~. SIJIC\0£-~0'IOC'-11!-IG S\.ICHlS "W~I 1\.\t.'(~ j\.)'5\ IN 
~8>-'J'I IA.IT~l II RR 1\\£. ~£.'( l\~ £\ltll..'l· JI..LB\lt-\ ;> ~'E. £.\.":i£. ITS ~ RlR Eitcr. IF '(CIJ 'tiM\\ 10 S~ ~D 
\lRCl'IO'{£, 8£. _,p 
38 On the qui vive 11 Boil ­
Slt-IQR£ ? ACROSS 
39 "Monopoly" piece 12 Severe
~l\1. 
1 "-you not" 40 Kind of converted 13 Bowljng button "-. 5 Denizen at 20,000 loft 16 Ryan and Castle 
fathoms 43 Drum sound 20 "-a man with ... " 10 Pinocchio, for one 45 "Streets of San 23 Bard's river 14 Right-triangle Francisco" star 24 Scoring unit 
ratio 46 Labyrinth 26 Gregorian ­15 Equability 47 Suffix for hero 27 Insignia on a 17 Type of sax 48 Put first things Cardinal uniform
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 18 Sociable first 28 Helicopter sound 19 Cakes and ----50 Treasury agent 29 Occasionally20 Dr. Frankenstein's 51 One who constantly 30 Public walkway
assistant daydreams 31 Left fielder in 21 Cinema -(form 52 Ohio team Abbott and Costello 
of documentary) 53 Somme summers routine 22 Apple coating 54 Husky vehicles 33 Newcomers (slang) 24 Not much more 55 Crystal gazer's 34 Actress Lee 
than a puddle words 36 Multi-purpose 25 Up the ----DOWN too1 
(in jail) 37 Use T.L.C. 26 Nat and Natalie 1 Mr. Asimov 38 Author Huxley27 Nose 2 "Irish Lullaby" 39 Certain frat 28 Units of little place brothers 
care 3 Woody Allen movie 40 Sufficient 2g Use a Singer 4 ----volente 41 Mystical card 32 Gull's relative 5----than life 42 Type style 33 The Gold Coast, 6 Start school 43 Demolished 
today 7 State positively 44 Uptight 34 ----Hashanah 8 Droop 46 Tiny bit 35 Ghent's river 9 "Grease" star 49 World chess champ 36 The published word 10 Former Secretary of of 1960 37 Very run-down Defense, and family 50 Prefix for cycle 

-
"Lord, we thank thee." 
MENU 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cantonese BBQ Ribs 
Veal Parmesan 
Baked Whitefish with llerbs 
Cantonese Pineapple Chicken Gyros 
Pasta Primavera 
Noodles Romanof 
Sports 
-
page 20 

the Gate 10 ticket window, both dining halls, and through Ticketmaster. That's less than the price of a movie in the theater or dinner at Macri's, and there are plenty of seats available. Don't be fooled, these tickets are selling fast so get yours now! 
6) It's a Wednesday night. What else is there to do on a cold 
Wednflsday night in March in the Bend? (Don't forget, Basix got busted before break.) 
5) It's a post-season play. 
Not everyone could be in the NCAAs. (I we were in a conference, we might have gotten in like Mississippi Valley State or Murray State.) We weren't invited to a post-season tournament last year, but were this year so why not go watch it. Who knows when the next one will be, maybe next year or maybe not until we are all gone. 
4) The team likes big crowds. 
The basketball team seems to play better in pressure situations and in big games. Packing the house tonight would help raise the intensity level of the players. With a large crowd in their 
see MARTEN 1page?? 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
• 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Lacrosse meets Lake Forest at Loftus 
see pag~ 18 
Women's golf falters In Florida 
see page 15 

Wrestlers qualify for NCAAs 
see page 17 
Wednesday, March 18, 1992 

Notre C~ame to face UCLA in NCAA tourney opener 
Coyle rtJns to eighth at NCAAs 

By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame mens' track team completed its indoor season over break with representatives at the IC4A meet and the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
Last weekend, Junior John Coyle had an excellent day at the NCAA Championships in Indianapolis. The distance runner finished eighth in the 5,000 meter run with a time of 14:17.73 and earned All-American honors. It marked the first time Coyle competed in the indoor championships. 
"It was definitely t.he best college meet I've been to. The intensity and the competition were great. The quality of the whole field was incredible," said 
c
oy1e. 
Coyle ran well in the first half of the race, but fell off the leader in the second half. 
"Overall, it was nothing close to a personal best, but it was definitely a
good race for me." 
Coyle just barely missed All-American status in cross country earlier this year and achieving the honor in indoors helped him forget. 
"One of my goals was to get All­American in indoors and so it was very gratifying," said Coyle. "I definitely wanted to make amends for cross coun­try." 
Sophomore Willie Clark competed in the 55-meter dash, but he did not place in the event. 
Several members of the team placed team," explained McGraw. "We were surprised to be in the Midwest region, and yet playing in California. 
"(But) there is absolutely no pressure on us in the NCAA's. We've got nothing to lose-we're clearly the underdog." 
The Bruins won five of their last six games to finish in a tie for third in the Pac-1 0. Their final push also moved them from the NCAA bubble to a fifth seed in the tournament and a first-round home game. 
"It's just nice to still be playing at this point in the year," said UCLA coach Billie Moore. ''I'm extremely pleased with how we've progressed throughout the sea­son." 
The Irish are all too familiar with the Bruins and their hallowed home arena. Last season, Notre Dame fell 89-75 to UCLA at Pauley, and have never won in 
In last season's matchup, the Irish ran out to an early 12-2 lead, but the Bruins had closed to within three by halftime. UCLA took the lead for good midway through the second half, and then hit its free throws down the stretch to put away Notre Dame. 
Senior guard Rehema Stephens scored 33 points in the Bruin victory. A presea­son All-American choice this year, Stephens (20.4 ppg, 7.8 rpg) suffered a stress fracture two weeks ago. Moore says that Stephens is ready to play tonight, although she still is not at full strength. 
"She's a big part of our team," said Moore. "Traditionally, she's been a lead­ing scorer and rebounder, and now this year, she's taken most of the key defen­sive assignments on the perimeter." 
And when sophomore center Natalie Williams rejoined the team in December, 
see UCLA I page15 


Irish to face WMU 
Patience key against Broncos 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

Tonight the Notre Dame mens' basketball team (14-14) will do something that almost no one would have believed they would be doing when they were 1-5 in early January-play a post-season game. 
Notre Dame takes on Western Michigan (21-8) in the first round of the National Invitational Tournament at 
7:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
The Broncos are members of the Mid-American Conference and lost to fellow NIT participant Ball State, 65-61, in the MAC semifinals. 
"They are a small, but quick team that plays tenacious defense," Irish coach John MacLeod said. 
Western Michigan's forwards Virgil Grayson and Leon McGee are only six-foot-four and six-foot-two respectively, while its guards Ebon Sanders and Darrick Brooks are only five-foot-eight and six-foot. 
Despite the tremendous height differential MacLeod believes the Irish will have to work for their points. 
"We have the size advantage, but they (the Broncos) are going to help each other, double team and try to clog things up," MacLeod commented. "We are going to have to be patient. We can't force things inside when they are not there." 
For Western Michigan the NIT berth is the crowning achievement of their Cinderella season. Last year the Broncos struggled to a 5-23 record, and this is only the 
see NIT I page16 

at the IC4A meet in Princeton, NJ after some difficulties in the travel plans. The team's flight was cancelled and they did not arrive in New Jersey until late Friday night. The qualifying round was on Saturday with finals on Sunday. 
Sophomore Todd Herman collected the only individual championship in the high jump for the Irish, but fell short in his attempt to qualify for NCAAs. His jump of 7' 1 1/2" put him ahead of Connecticut jumper Eric Callaghan. Four jumpers in the event cleared 6'11 ", but only two cleared 7 feet. Freshman Brian Headrick also competed in the high jump, but could not clear 6' 9 112". 
"I was happy that I won, but I am disappointed that I didn't qualify for nationals," said Herman. 
Notre Dame was well represented in the distance events and scored many points. Coyle was the highest finisher in the distance events for the Irish with second place in the 3000. Freshman Nate Ruder also ran well in the event placing ninth. 
"Nate Ruder is running incredibly," said sophomore Mike McWilliams. "He is adapting well to the competition and the environment of collegiate running." 
In the mile run, senior Shawn Schneider finished sixth with a time of 
4:11.85. 
"I was happy to get into the finals," said Schneider. "My goal was to finish in the top five and score some points. I was happy with sixth place because I did score some points for the team." 
see TRACK I page 16 


The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

John Coyle earned all-American status with his eight place finish in the NCAA tournament. 
-










