~M~
-Q&·

e Observer ~imMa~~~~
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

THURSDAY , APRIL 2, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 123 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 




The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Notre Dame without parietals? 
Students gathered outside the administration building Tuesday night to protest the University parietals policy. Participants asked the University to treat them like adults and burned a copy of Dulac. 

Senate to consider no-confidence vote 
Editor's Note: The following is the first of four articles ad­dressing the issue offaculty participation in the academic governance ofthe University. 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
The Faculty Senate will con­sider a vote of no confidence in University President Father Edward Malloy at its next meeting April 7, according to Professor David O'Connor. 
The resolution is the result of months of debate between fac­ulty and administration repre­sentatives over the issue of the faculty's role in the governance of the University, in particular in academic issues. 
"It would mean that the only faculty body that is elected is sending a message that it no longer has academic leader­ship" in the administration, ac­cording to Professor Philip Quinn. 
"I think it would be unfortu­nate," said Malloy. "I have no desire to have a confrontative relationship with the faculty." 
A similar motion was pre­sented at a meeting of the Fac­ulty Senate March 2, but the body did not vote on the resolu­tion. 
The first draft, written by O'Connor and Quinn, states that "The 1991-92 school year has revealed for all to see that the 
ACULTY PARTICIPATION N GOVERNANCE Part 1 of 4 

• History of debate/ page 5 
Administration of the University has a deep distrust of all meaningful participation by faculty in the governance of Notre Dame." 
The resolution, which O'Connor said has been revised twice since the March 2 meet­ing, also charges that: 
• 
faculty initiatives to become involved in deliberation about academic affairs have been re­jected by the Administration. 

• 
structures now in place that allow for such faculty partici­pation are "flouted and over­ruled." 

• 
the administration has not considered the faculty as a cen­tral player in fostering the mis­sion of the University. 


The March 2 resolution con­cludes that "the present admin­istration of the University is unable to provide the leader­ship the faculty must have in its efforts to foster academic ex­cellence." 
In response, the resolution calls for the Senate to go on 
see SENATE/page 4 

Experts discuss needs, problems of affirmative action 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
The needs. problems, and consequences of affirmative ac­tion policies in education were discussed last night at the Pub­lic Policy Colloquium of the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 
Experts on affirmative action participated in the panel dis­cussion for the colloquium, en­titled "Recovering the Dream: Is Affirmative Action an Ap­propriate Policy for the 1990s?" 
The colloquium, a "student­developed and student-run pro­gram." is designed to increase awareness and understanding of public policy issues by bring­ing in panelists with diverse backgrounds and outlooks, ac­cording to co-chairperson Chris Parent. 
Howard Adams, the first panelist, has worked with the National Consortium for Grad­uate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Sciences for twelve years. He is now execu­tive director of the affirmative action program. 

Affirmative action in educa­tion is "a topic that I have the pleasure of working with every day," Adams said. "We work to increase the number of under­represented minorities with Masters and Ph.D. degrees in engineering and science." 
Adams added that his pro­gram focuses on two major is­sues of affirmative action, equity and choice. "We ensure an equal opportunity in some­thing that has heretofore been closed," he said, by providing minorities with financial aid and letting them choose from 70 universities for their gradu­ate work. 
In addressing the issue of equity at Notre Dame, Adams pointed out the lack of black and female teachers and re­search assistants. He said that, "When we make policy, we ought to observe the broader population." 
"Policies have to be inclusive," he added, and he suggested that more blacks and women be hired as assistants. 
While Adams focused on the need for affirmative action in the fields of science and engi­neering, Gary Hunter addressed the need for affirmative action in the overall university com­munity. 
He related his experiences 
see LECTURE/page 4 

Police say the intoxication of Local charity rewards Hesburgh 
By BILL ALBERTINI 
time, said Burzynski. 

accident victims unimportant 
News Writer Not only has the award-win­ner "got to be a player on our
By JULIE BARRETT According to reports from Assistant News Editor people who witnessed the acci­University President emeritus local scene," said Burzynski, 
Father Theodore Hesburgh has but he or she also is "always adent, Elizabeth Joyce and Cara recently been named the eighth local person." 
The fact that the two Saint McCourt were walking on the 
recipient of the annual Hospice Past winners of the award
Mary's sophomores were legally shoulder of Ivy Road when 
Helping Hands Award by the have been James Frick, Rev.
intoxicated when struck by a struck by the car, said Feirrel. 
Hospice of St. Joseph's County, Edmund Joyce, Richard Rosen­car while walking on Ivy Road "So even if the students were 
Hospice of St. Joseph thal, Jerry Hammes, Mary Lou
early Sunday morning, intoxicated, they were walking 
county,which is a non-profit and Judd Leighton, and Art De­
February 16, has no bearing on far off the side of the road 
when hit," he continued. organization giving in-home cio.
the actual hit-and-run accident, 
care to terminally ill persons, Hesburgh lauded the effortsaccording to Sgt. Charlie Feir­Since both women are under of Hospice, relating stories of
rell of the St. Joseph County the Indiana state drinking age gives the award yearly to 
seeing the poor in Calcutta

Police. of 21, the students are liable someone who has 
"at the most" for charges of "distinguished themself in phi­"waiting to die" being given
Feirrell said the blood tests Theodore Hesburgh 
taken from Cara McCourt and minor consumption, according lanthropy, education, or the care by Mother Theresa. Hos­to Feirrell. arts" and has helped to improve alone," said Father Hesburgh pice's care is along the same
Elizabeth Joyce immediately 
the quality of life in the when describing the benefits of lines, he said. "A person oughtafter the accident showed they The police department has Michiana area, the state or at the Hospice program. Hospice to die with human care," hewere publicly intoxicated. In not charged the girls for un­the national level, said Hospice is trying to recover the custom continued, which is what makes
the the state of Indiana, the derage drinking and is still 
Executive Director Tom of caring for the sick in their Hospice's work so "wonderful."
public intoxication level is .04 looking into the situation before Burzynski. final hours. Hesburgh has a personal at­blood/alcohol content or higher, deciding how to handle the The award went to Hesburgh Hesburgh has been awarded tachment to Hospice since heand the illegal intoxication level case, he added. 
this year because of his obvious 122 honorary degrees, the most has been the testimonialfor driving is .1 or higher. "We didn't give the students 
However, Feirrell said, a ticket for underage drinking life-long contributions to chari­of any person, has held 14 speaker at the last two presen­table causes, said Burzynski. presidential appointments, and tations of the award, and his
"There is no indication that the after the accident because they "People don't have to die in has been involved in almost all
two students did anything see HESBURGH/page 4 
see HIT & RUN/page 4 the dark, they don't have to die of the major social issues of our
unusual because of drinking." 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What if gays golfed at Notre Dame? 
Imagine, for a moment,-:;;;;;:::;;;;;­

the following situation: 
A member of our beloved administration, preparing for a lecture, is thumbing through Leviticus, one of the more obscure (and, from a 


literary viewpoint, one of PAUL PEARSON the juiciest) books in the Associate News Bible. Ed't 
After reading for the 1 or umpteenth time about manna from heaven, the official happens upon the following verse: "The man who plays golf, he shall be unclean in the eyes of the Lord." 
Instead of checking if the passage is being read out of context, he points it out to his superiors. Within the next hour, the Univer­sity has a policy that condemns people who enjoy golf. (I know the administration never works this quickly. even on things they agree with, but bear with me.) 
The consequences are quickly set in stone under the Golden Dome. The ND Golf Team is banned, the golf course is turned into a parking lot and any organization that sup­ports the rights of golfers is ruled "contrary to the University's high moral standards" and cannot receive recognition or funds from the University. 
When people begin to question such a harsh and unswaying treatment of people, the Administration responds with this simple rationale: 
ADMINISTRATION: "Golf is immoral. The Bible says so. Therefore, any support of golfers in any way is being contrary to God's direct wishes." 
QUESTIONER: "But the Bible also made eating pork. divorce and working on Sundays immoral. Is it possible that you're being a little irrational here?" 
ADMINISTRATION (now red-faced with anger): "Go away, you atheist, or we'll take your dorm away!" 
But there's more. In an attempt to support each other during this persecution, the group Golfers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GAND/SMC) is formed. They do nothing to directly hurt the University, but they repeatedly call for recognition of golfing as a normal lifestyle. 
That is, until the Administration bans them from advertising in the "independent" campus publications. Perhaps the ads distract visiting alumni from their true missions-to watch football and donate their life savings to their beloved "Research University." 
Then. the unthinkable happens. A member of the University's own faculty, a well-re­spected teacher and counselor, is discovered to have secretly played golf for nearly 15 years. encouraging young pupils to tee off as well. 
Instead of getting the love and under­standing he deserves, his case is covered up with lies and half-answers about "psychological evaluation and treatment." 
All in all, an otherwise outstanding school is made to look foolish because it refuses to accept golf as a normal part of a morally wholesome life. 
Can't happen at Notre Dame, right? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
Today's Staff: Graphics: 
Ann-Marie Conrado 

Production: Cheryl Moser News: Melissa Cusack Becky Barnes 
Alicia Reale 

Accent: Mara Divis Business: Amy Hardgrove Andy Runkle Patrick Moran Pancho Lozano 

Sports: Systems: 
Mark McGrath John Halloran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Pr9SSure 

H L b~,~~ &S.1 m tzJ fx:xj 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 

···::;:::::::::::·::· ·.·....::::·::::::·. ·::·· ::::::::· 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

• JOHAN ESBURG, South Africa -Four blacks were killed and at least 23 were injured in fierce street battles in the black township of Alexandra bordering Johannesburg, officials said Wednesday. David Robb, manager of a clinic in the township, described the bloodshed as "a full-scale war." The private Human Rights Commission, meanwhile, said 372 blacks were killed in black township violence during March, one of the highest monthly figures in recent years. Factional fighting -mostly between the two largest black groups, the African National Congress and the Inkatha Freedom Party -accounts for much of the surging violence, but random crime also has contributed to the toll. 
Green~eace blockades shipment 
• DOR RECHT, Netherlands -About 40 Greenpeace protesters cut off rail shipments to a DuPont chemical plant today to protest the company's production of chemicals believed to harm the earth's atmosphere. The 


OF INTEREST 

•Meet 
your concentration. Meetings for under­graduates interested in: Hesburgh Program in Public Service (Room 204 O'Shag) and PPE (Room 217 O'Shag) will take place at 4:30 and 6:30 p.m. respectively. 

•"Don't 
let disputes bug you." Dr. Gary Zimmerman from Manchester College Reconciliation Service will present solving campus conflicts through meditation at 4:30p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 

•Flight 
safety seminar featuring Lt. Comm. Dave Driegel and Don Hales will be held tonight at 6 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Anyone interested in aviation is wel­come to attend. Refreshments will be served. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Flying Club. Call Jennifer Martin at 283-2798 with questions. 

•"How 
to conduct a mail campaign" will be pre­sented by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Ser­vices office today at 6:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune. All are welcome. 

•Student 
Body Address by 1992-93 Student Body President and Vice President Greg Butrus and Molly 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX ~ 229,515,910 223.42 v 0.17 S&P COMPOSITE 404.23 .. 0.54 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,249.33 4t 13.86 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOID..f $ .80 to $342.90/oz. 
SILVER'f .4¢ to $4.103oz. 
) Cloudy and cold with a 40 percent chance of snow. High in the mid 30s. Friday will be cloudy with highs 
in the low 40s.  
H  L  
43  28  
68  50  
70  46  
56  36  
77  55  
39  30  
39  30  
58  47  
56  26  
82  71  
42  31  
59  45  
54  41  
57  36  
39  25  
43  27  
47  37  
58  42  
52  34  
61  34  
64  50  
76  54  
35  25  

59 52 63 37 

~ (f e:J ~ 
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CL(){!DY 
.·..·.··:-: ... 
·.··-:·:·:·:::::-···
:::::::i·:·:· ·..::::::· 

activists chained a car to the railroad tracks that lead to the DuPont plant in this western Dutch city, according to a Greenpeace statement. It said the activists began their blockade at the start of the working day and would maintain it "until DuPont halts production of ozone­destroying chemicals." Green peace said DuPont is the world's largest producer of chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs. 



NATIONAL 

Kissin~er denies allegations 


O'Neill will be held tonight at 8:30 in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune. Joseph Blanco and David Florenzo will also speak reflecting on their term as 1991-92 Presi­dent and Vice-President. 
•"Ecology 
versus Technology?" will be presented by Professor Robert Mcintosh, emeritus professor in Bio­logical Sciences, during the Friday Forum. 12:15-1 p.m. Room 124 of the CSC. All are welcome. 

•"New 
Job Listing" handout is now available in the Career and Placement Services office. More than 25 posi­tions are included. 

•A 
24 hr. fast/retreat will be held this weekend. The World Hunger Coalition and CILA welcome those inter­ested to join us or remain on campus and fast in solidar­ity. Call Kathy Turner at 283-3429 and pick up a sponsor sheet at the esc. 


WThe Spanish Club will be sponsoring a trip to Chicago on Saturday. All interested contact Alex at x1599. Great Deal! 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1792: Congress passed the Coinage Act, which authorized establishment of the U.S. Mint. 

• 
In 1917: President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress to declare war against Germany, saying, "The world must be made safe for democracy." 

• 
In 1983: Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko rejected President Ronald Reagan's proposal for reducing medium­range missiles in Europe, saying the plan was "unacceptable on all counts." 

• 
In 1986: Four American passengers were killed when a bomb exploded aboard a TWA jetliner en route from Rome to Athens, Greece. 


~-------------------~------~~--­

Thursday, April 2, 1992 

Forum planned for campus community 
By AMY MARK 
News Writer 
Students, faculty, administra­tion, and all other members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will now have the opportunity to ask questions, discuss issues, and make sug­gestions, said Adele Lanan, ad­visor for the Multicultural Ex­ecutive Council. 
In a forum organized by the Multicultural Executive Council, the community and the campus media will come together tonight at 7 p.m. in the pit of Grace Hall. · 
This evening's event is the first of a two-part program between the community and leaders at Notre Dame. The panel will consist of new and old news editors, publication managers and radio station managers. 
"Now's your chance if you want to talk to student leaders," said Lanan. 
The second part of the pro­gram will feature former and current student body leaders including Joseph Blanco, David Florenzo, Greg Butrus, Molly O'Neill, past and present lead­ers of the Student Union Board, HPC and Student Senate. It will be held April 23 at 8 p.m. in the Grace pit. 
The Multicultural Executive Council has hosted several simi­lar forums on campus this year, raising such topics as racism and interracial dating. This is the first time, however, that the council has arranged this type of forum. 
The council wanted to facili­tate the possibility of students asking student leaders various questions and dispel the per­ception that leaders are unap­proachable, said Lanan. 
Nicole Farmer, a member of the council, said, "There are always questions that come up ... that the panel (in other fo­rums) doesn't have the answers to ...we just wanted to have people to be able to answer why. We can be the bridge for that incredible opportunity to actually reach people." 

The Observer page 3 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 


Bend and stretch 
St. Mary's students get in shape by participating in a "Total Body Workout" at Angela Athletic Facilities. 
Rape victim refuses to give information 

By AMY GREENWOOD 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
South Bend police have con­
firmed that an 18 year old St. 
Mary's student was forcibly 
raped late Friday or early Sat­
urday. 

The victim refused to give po­
lice any information about the 
time, location or suspect in-
J 


Reduce 
:AnENTION: 

•••• 0 0 •••••••••••••••••••••• 0 •••••••••••••••••• 
:RUNNERS :ANP: WALKERS~~~~: 
:~~~~~~y~ :i~: ~P<?~~~r:i~g: ~ ~~: ~~~ ~0: 
.......... 'Th.... d ..... A .. ··1·2· .d ........ . 
: : : : : : : : : : : .urs: ay,: · . pn : n: : : : : : : : : : 
.......................................... 
:R · · · •star at 3::1 o:in :front of An· ·eJa:.:
.. ~ ............................. 9 .... . 
::::There: is :a: $3~oo: entry fee.,: 
•••••••••• 0 ••••• 0 ••••••••••••••••••• 

:and door·· rizes wiU: be :awa:rded.:
............ P.......................... . 
:caH Kelly Jo.r mor:e:r.ifo~ 
......... 


:x5:442: 

••••••••• 0 •••••••••••• 0 ••••••••• 0 • • • •••••••••••• 
:St:.: Ma: ·~s :Unites :Runners for: Volunteer-in··
........ .FY ..................................... 9 
volved in the attack. "I have attempted to contact 
"The young lady did not want the victim several times, but to give us any details," said she hasn't returned my calls," South Bend police Public In­said Sgt. George Haywood of formations Officer Norval the South Bend police. "Unless Williams. "She did not want to she speaks with me, I will not pursue the matter any further." have any additional 
The victim, who was treated information." at St. Joseph's Medical Center, St. Mary's Security Director has declined to talk further Richard Chlebek refused to with the police. comment on the incident. 
THANK YOU! 

Recycle 









KIRSTEN DUNNE 
FOR RENT 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
Amenities Include: 2 Full Baths Washer /Dryer Security System New Appliances 1 Mile From N.D. 
ewly Remodeled. Features Include: 
All New Bathrooms New Appliances New Carpet Completely Repainted New Siding 
232-8256 
page4 The Observer Thursday, April 2, 1992 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
reeord as having no eonfidenee in the present administration, for their eoncerns to be brought to the attention of the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees and for the Senate to prepare for a referendum of the entire teaehing and researeh faeulty on a no-eonfidence motion in the fall. 
The resolution for a vote of no confidence ~is about the policy direction that his adminis­tration is pursuing" on aeademic issues, said O'Connor. He added that the move is not a personal issue. 


Lecture 

continued from page 1 
working as director of the De­
partment of Affirmative Action 

and Human Resource Develop­
ment at Miami University in 
Oxford, Ohio, a school which he 
said is similar to Notre Dame in 
many respects. 
Hunter said that affirmative 

action is designed to correct ef­
fects of past discrimination, to 
eliminate current discrimina­
tion, and to prevent future dis­
crimination. It does not, as 
many people believe, lower the 
academic standards of the uni­
versity and lower the quality of 
its programs. 
Instead, he said that affirma­

tive action increases the diver­
sity of the university, bringing 
in new ideas and values that 
challenge long-standing beliefs. 
Hunter stressed that recruit­

ment of minority students and 
faeulty must be increased now 
in order to prepare universities 
for higher percentages of mi­
norities in the future. "Look at 
the number of minorities in a 
second or third grade dass to­
day," he said. ~what we do to­
day is in large part what their 
future will be." 
Betty Vetter, the executive di­

rector of the Commission on 
Professionals in Science and 
Technology, was the third pan­
elist to speak about affirmative 
action in education. She said 
that the topic especially inter­
ested her because in 1946, she 
was rejected by the graduate 
school of Cornell University. 
They rejected her because they 
had already filled their quota 
for women, Vetter said, not be­
cause of a lack of academic 
qualifications. 
Discrimination problems still exist, according to Vetter, de­spite the fact that minorities make up nineteen percent of all eollege students. "There are affirmative action laws," she said, "but universities do not obey them." 
Vetter added that when mi­

norities and women are admit­
ted to universities, they pay the 
same tuition as white men. 
When they graduate, however, 
they frequently do not receive 
equal salaries. ' Although Vetter said that she 
was not certain whether or not 
affirmative action is always ef­
fective in education, she said 
that it is helpful in providing 
everyone with an opportunity 
for achievement. 
"There is no other step," he said. "It seems that no step is too small for the president to accept." 
Faculty Senate Chairman Paul Conway said that because of the vague definition of 'administration,' the measure is directed, in particular, against the policy of Malloy. 
Frank Castellino, dean of the College of Science, said that the resolution, should it pass, "is a fairly destructive event. There needs to be a longer history of problems between faculty and administration to take such a huge step." 
While Castellino said that, as a faculty member, he wants a strong faculty senate that is willing to enter into strong de­bate, he added that "the Presi­dent is a reasonable person once you work out the differ­ences." 

"It is a very radical move," said Dean Eileen Kolman of Freshman Year of Studies. "It seems a bit premature. Is this ... the only thing that can be done?" 
The resolution follows several years of debate about the structures of academic gover­nanee and the faculty's access to deliberate within those structures. 
"The faculty feels that we should have more to say ... about decisions that affect our­selves and the academics of the University," said Professor William Tageson. 
Faculty members are quick to point out that they do not want 

Howard Adams, executive director of the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science, Inc., speaks at last night's lecture "Recovering the Dream." 
The Observer announces the 1992-93 St. Mary's Staff Office Hours 
The Office is open Mondays and Wednesdays 10-11 and 2:30-3:30, and Tuesday and Thursday 12-3 in 309 Haggar College Center 


1\/\td'S 

to run the University, but want more opportunity to deliberate -to discuss and decide -aca­demic issues such as curricu­lum and faculty course loads, according to O'Connor. 
"Are we not," asked Malloy, "with the work under way with the Colloquy and with proposals for other mechanisms that could be implemented when they win popular support, ad­dressing the heart of the mat­ter? I think we are; some may disagree." 
While the resolution itself has no concrete effect on the Uni­versity, Malloy said that, if passed, it could create a sense of crisis that could have other implications. 
Kolman said that it could create the impression nationally 

Hesburgh 
continued from page1 

sister-in-law helped to bring Hospice to the South Bend area, he reported. 
Columnist Ann Landers, a long-time friend of Father l-Ies­burgh, will be the testimonial speaker this year. The award will be presented on May 6th at the Joyce Athletic and Convoca­tion Center, at 6 p.m. followed by a 7 p.m. dinner. 
that the University is not healthy, an impression which she said is not accurate. 
"I hope that cooler heads will prevail," Malloy added. 
The move to a vote of no-con­fidence was spurred by an in­creasingly adversarial relation­ship between the faculty and the administration, said Suzanne Marilley, assistant professor of government. 
This "has led to a confronta­tion that is unhealthy and po­tentially damaging to the com­munication network that exists at the University," she said. 
Marilley said she hopes that both sides of the issue can at­tempt to establish a common ground between the opposing views and to work from that foundation. 


Hit & run 
continued from page 1 
had just been hit by a car," he said. 
The police are currently tak­ing statements from students who were with the SMC stu­dents or the student driver the night of the hit-and-run to de­termine how much the three students had been drinking be­fore the aecident occurred. 


~~ENT A~TIVITIES 0ffll~~RCSENT~ 
I 
! 





At:lfff(*E 
'~ ~' .~~::~!'~. -~. '-%: /' 
NOTRE DAME 
DON"T MISS 
THE ACOUSTIC CAFE 
This Thursday, April 2 
basement lounge LaFortune Student Center 9:00P.M.-midnight 
OPEN MJCROPHOl'I'E STlTIE~"T PARTICIPATION E!\'COUR..-\(;ED 
1\/\td'S

'Mc!on;® McDonald's® announces••• 'Mcion;® 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffin® with Egg 

Friday & Saturday ONLY Midnight -2:00 a.m. 


LATE NIGHT 
Big Mac® Double Cheeseburger Hamburger Cheeseburger French Fries Soft Drinks Iced Tea Coffee Egg McMuffin® Sausage McMuffid!! with Egg 

Hash Browns Hash Browns Orange Juice Orange Juice Apple Juice Apple Juice

DRIVE-THRU 
Muffins Muffins Cookies Cookies 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR Ll FE 

American Heart Association 


Only at McDonald's® Restaurant1\/\orrs 1 51 9 N. Ironwood, South Bend
IMc!on;® 




Thursday, April 2, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Debate on faculty governance rooted in University history 
By DAVID KINNEY 1990, the Senate coordinated a News Editor University-wide election for a Faculty Committee on Univer­
The issue of faculty gover­sity Governance. nance is one that has been de­"At the same time," the letter bated for many years and at continues, "members of the Se­many institutions throughout nate urged the administration, the nation. on many separate occasions, to 
Notre Dame is no exception. cooperate with the committee." The most recent debate over O'Connor said that the adminis­the issue -and the proposed tration refused to be involved in vote of no-confidence pending the committee's work. in the Faculty Senate -has a The committee, which oper­history that extends back to the ated independently of the Sen­1989-90 academic year. ate, was chaired by Father 
In 1990, leaders among the David Burrell, professor of faculty believed that they had philosophy. The committee reached an impasse with the submitted a report to the Sen­Administration over the issue of ate in May 1991, calling for a faculty participation in gov­restructuring of the Academic ernance concerning academic Council in order to allow for in­issues, according to Professor creased faculty participation, David O'Connor. according to Professor Mort According to a letter pub­Fuchs, chairman of the de­
lished in The Observer on Feb. partment of biological sciences. 24, 1992 by the Executive The proposal, which was con­Committee of the Faculty Sen­sidered by some faculty to be 
ate, a delegation requested that modest, recommended that: the University President Father • the Academic Council have Edward Malloy appoint several the power to form standing administrators to serve on an committees that meet regularly ad-hoc faculty-administration in order to examine issues more committee to examine gover­closely, nance structures. • the number of elected fac­



Malloy declined, and in fall ulty be increased from 18 to 24, reasoning, Malloy said that he Timothy O'Meara until the fac-
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 
LTV PARTICIPATION 
GOVERNANCE 
and the number of students from four to six, 
• the Council meet six times a year, and that meeting agendas be made available prior to the day of the meeting. 
The proposal was endorsed unanimously by the Faculty Se­nate and placed on the agenda of the October 1991 meeting of the Academic Council using the Senate's right of agenda. The issue was discussed at the meeting and then tabled. The proposal was again discussed during the December 1991 meeting of the council. 
Although Malloy expressed his opposition to the proposed changes at both meetings, the proposal was passed by the council by a vote of 21 to 12, or nearly two-to-one. After further consideration, however, Malloy vetoed the proposal. 
While some questioned his 

[)()~M WA~§ 


Any Pan Pizza Large 15" Pizza 
Any Size, Any Toppings
one topping 


Valid at partiCipating stores only. Not valid with .any other offer. Prices may vary Customer pays sales tax where appliCable. Delivery areas llm~ed to ensure safe drivong. OJr drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1(20c. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
"LIMITED TIME ONLY* 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS CALL: 
271...0300 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS CALL: 
289...0033 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may va"f. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Cash value 1/2~. Our drivers are not penalized fcx late delrveries 
1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
*LIMITED TIME ONLY* 
&b~~~-=-=-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-==-=-=-~-=-~-:-:-==-=-=-cc-=-=-:==-=-~-c-:-:·:-:-:-:=-c-cc-~-~-::-~-~-c-c-~-:-s-~-~-==-~-~-:s-s-~-~-c-~-~-:-ss-s-~S ers. 
had made his opposition clear during the meetings. "I didn't do it arbitrarily," he said. 
"Normally people veto it if they think something funda­mental is at stake," he contin­ued, "and that is why I vetoed it." 
In the present governance structure, only the Academic Council, a body consisting of 14 administrators appointed by virtue of their position, 18 elected faculty and four stu­dents, has the responsibility to "determine general academic policies and regulations of the University," according to the Notre Dame's Academic Arti­cles. 
The Faculty Senate, mean­while, is composed of 53 elected faculty and is charged with the duty of formulating faculty opinion and make academic recommendations to the Aca­demic Council. The Senate has no power to implement policy. 
A second issue that has led the Senate to consider a vote of no-confidence was the failure of the Board of Trustees to delay the confirmation of Provost ulty review of the officer that is mandated by the academic arti­cles. During the same meeting, the board confirmed the presi­dent and the executive vice president. 
A letter to the Senate from Donald Keough, then chairman of the Board, stated that "The timing proved awkward be­cause the academic articles provide for a separate review of [the provost], but for the Board to have acted in regard to two top officers while delaying a decision on one would have been even more awkward." 
"That the Board of Trustees and the president thought it so insignificant that it could be dispensed with," said O'Connor, "reflects these problems." 
It is difficult to gage how many whether these concerns about the faculty's role in the University are only the beliefs of a small group of faculty leaders or those of many faculty, according to Dean Kolman of Freshman Year of Studies. However, "events of the past year have raised issues that have spoke to more people. Many more faculty are talking." 
Bush pledges aid to Russia 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi-· 
dent Bush pledged Wednesday 
the United States will help fi­
nance a $24 billion interna­
tional aid fund for the former 
Soviet Union, rejecting criticism 
he has been too slow to support 
democratic reform in the col­
lapsed communist superpower. 
"This .isn't any Johnny-come­
lately thing and this isn't driven 
by election year pressures," 
Bush said at a White House 
news conference. "It's what's 
right for the United States." 
Even as Bush announced his 
program, Democrat Bill Clinton 
accused the president of mov­
ing too slowly on economic and 
humanitarian aid to the former 
Soviet republics. At a speech in 
New York, Clinton called Bush's 
fmeign policy "reactive, rud­
derless, and erratic." Last 
month, former President 
Richard Nixon had said U.S. 
support for Russia was 
"pathetic." 
Bush, at the White House, 
said, "Some people will attack 
you for doing too much and 
some for not doing enough. I 
think this is right." 
Nixon, endorsing the pro­posal, told NBC News on Wednesday: "This is a reces­sion year and aid is not popu­lar. But in aiding them we're helping ourselves." 
The $24 billion aid fund would be extended by financial institutions such as the Inter­national Monetary Fund with principal backing from the Group of Seven -Germany, 
Japan, France, Britain, Italy, Canada and the United States. 
Apart from the international fund, Bush said the United States would provide $600 mil­lion in new credit guarantees for grain purchases by Russia and a total of $500 million for Ukraine, Armenia and other former republics of the now de­funct Soviet Union. 
The money would be in addi­tion to the $3.75 billion in agri­cultural credits approved by Bush since January 1991. Bush and other administration 1 officials were at a loss to say I how much the overall plan 1 would cost American taxpay-I 
j 






Making Their Last Public Appearance: Dave and Joseph 


Making Their First Public Appearance: Greg and Molly 

April 2, 1992 at 8:30 Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center 
Joseph Blanco and Dave Florenzo Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill Outgoing President and Vice President Incoming President and Vice President 

Thursday, April 2, 1992 The Observer 
page 7 



Drug charges dropped 
Four professors have received grants 
due to police perjury 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Charges against about 50 drug suspects will be dropped because five police officers lied to obtain a warrant in a case involving a distant relative of the mayor, a prosecutor said Wednesday. 
The perjury indictments against the officers have tainted their credibility in unrelated drug cases in which they were the key witnesses, said State's Attorney Stuart 0. Simms. 
"I don't think we were in a position where we could have had our cake and eaten it, too," Simms said. "The state has a significant responsibility to bring forward the truth. Credibility is an important issue in any case, especially in a drug case." 
Chris Romano, chief of the state attorney general's. crimi­nal investigations division, said authorities couldn't wait until the perjury cases are settled because defendants have a right to have their cases heard in 180 days. 
The drug charges can be re­filed if the officers are cleared, Romano said. 
That didn't satisfy Gary McLhenny, a spokesman for the Fraternal Order of Police, a union that represents the offi­cers. 
"If that's the case, expedite the officers' cases so you can get it out of the way," McLhenny said. 

Happy Birthday 


BABY PRETZEL! 
Signed, the Bean, the Geezer, and the Bag 
'=--========================~ * 

I  $1.00 OFF  
II  $1.00 off any regular footlong sandwich. Limit five footlong  
1I  sandwiches per order. Notgoodw~hanyotherdiscountoroffer.  
1  Good only a1 participating locations. ExpiresMay 31 • 1992  
1  

1992 Doc lor s Assoc•ales lnt 
I
I $1.99 SPECIAL 1 
I Buy one regular footlong and large II Coca-Cola at regular price, get a II second regular footlong of equal or I 
lesser value for only $1.99. I
I I
I Double meats not included. Not goodw~hanyotherdiscountorotfer. Good only I
I 
a!participatinglocations. ExpiresMay31,1992 


~!Ftma ! 

By JOE MONAHAN 
News Writer 
Two Saint Mary's and Notre 
Dame professors received 
grants from the Lilly Endow­
ment Program this year to re­
search and develop new 
courses over the summer. 
A total of 14 faculty members 
at Indiana independent colleges 
and universities were selected 
this year to participate in the 
Summer Stipend Program. 
Each will .receive $5,000. 
Winners this year include An­
drew Cutrofello and Max West­
ler from Saint Mary's College 
and Alexander Hahn and Julia 
Douthwaite from the University 
of Notre Dame. 
Each professor was allowed 
to submit their proposal to the 
foundation after first going 
through an in-house selection 
process to determine three 
nominees. Each institution is 
allowed a maximum of three 
nominations. The proposals 
were then evaluated by a panel 
of out-of-state judges at Indi­
anapolis. 

Cutrofello, assistant professor 
of philosophy at Saint Mary's, 
plans to develop the course "An 
Introduction to Non-Western * 
Philosophical Traditions." The course itself will be "a representative survey of three basic non-western traditions, namely Indian, Chinese, and African, with special attention paid to Theravada Buddhism," he said. 
The course will have to be only an introduction, he said, because "the material is so great that it would be impossi­ble to cover them all in depth." He plans to use the money to­wards reviewing possible course texts, researching the topic, and for contacting and talking with other professors in the country who are teaching similar courses. 
Although this could lead to development of other higher-level courses, he was especially interested in developing a text­book which "would emphasize the differences.,of these tradi­tions from western ones. Cur­rent texts tend to explain these non-western traditions through western constructs, and I would like to try to eliminate that bias," he said. 
Max Westler, assistant pro­fessor of English at Saint Mary's, will finish developing the course "My Brilliant Career: 
* 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL 
! 
* 

* BACK AT THE COVE!! 
! 
* 

* COME HAVE FUN 
! AND SEE SOME POWER!! 
lt-~ 
* 
~ ~ 

: Opening Day * 

* 
Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso lt-Doubleheader


lt­

* Thursday, April 2, 1992 
* 5:00pm, Coveleski Stadium 
: 

* Notre Dame vs. Ball State 
lt­

* Doubleheader : Saturday, April 4, 1992 lt-1:OOpm, Coveleski Stadium * 
TH[ FlliHTING
•IRISH 

: Notre Dame vs. Western Michigan 
* 

* 
Sunday, AprilS, 1992 

* 
1:00pm, Coveleski Stadium 


: 

* Admission only $1.00 with student /D. * 
: 
* * 
: 

* * vided between background lec­



--------------------------=1 tures given by Douthwaite and 

• 1
Thi. s 1S your ast 
Chance to make Sure You are in th e SENIOR CLASS VIDEO'• 
Turn m· pt•ctures by FRIDAY APRIL 3 t th
' 0 e Student Actt·v.·t.·es Offitee -315 LaF0 rtune 
1' §•l,tQbr» : 
..----..----------------........_________________________. 
Working Women and the Idea of Success" which is already in the course booklet for fall 1992. The title "My Brilliant Career" comes from an Australian film about a woman journalist at the turn of the century. 
The course, he said, is "on the nature of women's work and notion of success and how we deal with and perceive it to­day." It will cover such issues as comparing and contrasting ideas of success and work, the ideal (and non-ideal) wor,k situ­ation, current issues such as comparable worth and sexual harassment, and the nature of women's work today. 
Westler plans to teach the course through a variety of means and will use works from literature, film, television and guest lecturers combined with student input and discussion. 
Alexander Hahn, professor of mathematics at Notre Dame, will work on refining a new ap­proach, which he has been de­veloping, to teaching calculus. His proposal "Development of a New Calculus Course" attempts to emphasize the history and development of calculus more than current courses do. 
Hahn would like to "develop a calculus course which 'follows 

*the footprints or the great
* 
minds of mathematics,' where * after an immersion into the! cultural and scientific context of 

* 
the times, we learn the theory . 

* 
from the original treatises (in! appropriately clarified form) of 

* 
those who created it." 

* 
He feels that current calculus : courses ignore this approach 

* 
and in so doing make the sub-


lt-ject less interesting to the stu­
* dents.
!: He also feels that this method ~ uld b · II 1 bl
* 
wo e espec1a y va ua e to 

* 
those student who are geared : more towards a liberal arts 

* 
curriculum and may not be 

* 
exposed to a calculus course 

* 
again. : Julia Douthwaite, assistant 

* 
professor of romance languages 

* 
and literatures at Notre Dame, : will finish researching the 

* 
course "Dialogues Across the •-Channel: French and English : Women Writers of the Early 

* 
Modern Age." 

* 
The course will focus on "the 

* 
works and lives of women writ­! ers in England and France dur­

* 
ing the late seventeenth and 

* 
early eighteenth centuries," : said Douthwaite. The course 

* 
format will be a seminar di­


student discussions and presen­tations about the work. 
The course, offered for Fall 1992, is already full, and she expects to continue teaching it in the future. "I want to bridge the gap between English and French literature, and I hope by allowing both English and French majors into the class this can be accomplished," she 
said. 
Douthwaite has already writ­ten a book cultural and sexual differences in French literature, and she plans to write her next book about the subject matter 
ofthecourse. The money from the grant will go towards finding the 
books, most of which are out of print, and transferring them to microfilm where they can be 
photocopied for classroom use. Douthwaite said "Most of the 
books are rare, and direct pho­tocopying is not allowed." She is excited about the class 
because this new research 
delves into an area in which few people are involved. She 


1!~~1~E:~~:~~~~~~fiE~~ 
level." · 

.-----------------------------------~----------~-----------~-------------------·----~---· 



Business 
page 8 Thursday, April 2, 1992 
Senate approves foreign aid bill 

WASHINGTON (API -Con­struction spending on homes, office buildings and other pro­jects shrank 0.4 percent in February after the largest ad­vance in nearly two years a month earlier, the government said Wednesday. 
Analysts expressed little con­


projects in February totaled $406.2 billion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, the Com­merce Department reported. 
The February rate was down from $407.9 billion in January, when spending jumped 1.8 per­cent for the largest advance since a 1.9 percent gain in February 1990. The January increase first was estimated to be 13 percent. 
Outlays for residential con­struction dipped 0.1 percent, to ibility, because Washington for years has urged free emigration for Soviet Jews, he said. 
"We're stuck here today with a resolution," DeConcini said. "The least we can do is make something clear to the White House." 
For the first six months of this fiscal year, foreign aid had flowed under a stopgap mea­sure that essentially continued past aid programs at last year's levels. The six-month bill was passed last year to create an opportunity for Congress to revisit aid now and authorize up to $10 billion in loan guar­antees for Israel. 
But the issue became entan­gled in domestic politics in both countries and wrapped up in complicated Middle East peace negotiations. President Bush demanded a halt to Israeli set­tlements in occupied, predomi­nantly Palestinian territories as a condition for the loans, and Jerusalem would not budge. 
Proponents of the guarantees still hoped the issue could be revived later this year or early in 1993, when political tensions in both countries have lessened, and that a show of support in the Senate would help their chances. 
Overall, the stopgap bill would keep aid flowing through Sept. 30 at an annual rate of $14.2 billion. 
In addition, it would provide $270 million of the $350 million the administration had asked for United Nations peacekeep­ing activities this year, including $200 million for the U.S. share of a new peacekeeping force in Cambodia. 
The bill also included author­ity for the administration to take money away from other programs to provide aid to the former Soviet Union and paved the way for risk insurance for sales of U.S. products there through the Export-Import Bank. 
Officials anticipated using up to $150 million this year for new aid to the republics. 
The measure boosted ac­counts for the Peace Corps and refugee aid, and included a limit of $21.5 million on non­lethal military aid to El Sal­vador. An additional $64.7 million that had been intended for Salvadoran military aid was transferred to a fund for de­mobilization of fighters on both sides of a now-settled decade­long civil war. 
In addition, the bill dropped this year's aid to the Philippines by $60 million to $100 million. and extended authority for giv­ing excess U.S. military equip­ment to Israel. 

Keating asks to remain free to repay debts 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -lost $250 million when Ameri­
Charles Keating Jr., who faces can Continental filed for 
up to 10 years in prison for bankruptcy and Lincoln was 
swindling investors in his sav­seized at a taxpayer cost of 
ings and loan, says he should $2.6 billion, the most 
remain free so he can help re­expensive thrift failure ever. 
pay his victims. Keating, 68, was convicted 
In a l~tter to his probation Dec. 4 of 17 counts of securi­· officer. Thomas Aiken, Keating ,ties fraud. Aiken's report is 
says his stock in his holding due next Tuesday and Keating 
company is worthless, his net is to be sentenced April10. 
worth is negative $5 million, Meanwhile, a civil trial con­
and he has had to move into tinues in Tucson, Ariz., in a 
his daughter's home. suit filed by bondholders 
"However, if I were ever put seeking to get back their 
in a position where my experi­money. They would need to get 
ence and abilities to earn more than $400 million to 
money were able to be exer~ cover their losses, including 
cised and there were still legal fees and interest. 
unrecovered moneys due the In his letter, Keating pro­
bondholders, I would be posed some alternatives to a 
pleased -indeed gratified -prison sentence, including 
to devote as much of the working with the county 
remainder of my life as Probation Department to keep 
necessary to make them its camps open and helping 
whole," Keating wrote in the establish AIDS hospices. 
letter, made public Tuesday. Deputy District Attorney Paul 
Prosecutors told a jury last Turley said he had not had 
year that Keating bamboozled time to review the report. But 
lincoln Savings & Loan deposi· he said it "makes his conduct 
tors into thinking that junk all the more despicable 
bonds of his holding company, because it shows he had every 
American Continental Corp., opportunity to have a very 
were a safe investment. affluent life and be honest at 
Some 17,000 bondholders the same time." 
Source: AP 
$168.5 billion, following a 1.9 percent advance a month ear­lier. 
Still, except for January, res­idential spending was at the highest level since October 1990, when it totaled $172.1 billion, David Berson, an particularly in offices, shopping centers and retail outlets," Sei­ders said. "This sector is des­tined for further declines." 

Outlays fell 1. 7 percent for office construction and 0.9 per­cent for "other commercial" which includes shopping cen­ters. 

Legislation to finance savings and loan bailout axed by House 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Egged on by rebellious Republicans, the House on Wednesday re­jected legislation sought by President Bush to finance the savings and loan bailout for six more months. 
The 298-125 vote sent admin­istration officials and leaders of both parties scrambling for a way to keep the Resolution Trust Corp .. the bailout agency, running. Congress provided the agency with $25 billion in November, but the authority to spend the money expired Wednesday. 
The RTC can still seize insol­vent institutions and keep them open under government control -a tactic it has adopted in similar delays. But it cannot proceed with takeover deals to protect depositors in the failed thrifts without such legislation. 
The Senate last week voted 52-42 to finance the RTC through March 1993. That bill authorized the agency to use $17 billion unspent from the November allocation and pro­vided an additional $25 billion. 
The House bill only lifted the spending deadline, an action the RTC estimated would allow it to operate until October. 
Although President Bush and both parties' House leaders supported the bill, it was re­jected, 180-80 by Democrats and, 117-45 by Republicans. Rep. Bernard Sanders of Ver­mont, an independent, also op­posed it. 

Although the Bush adminis­tration preferred the Senate bill, it said it supported the House bill as "the only option before the House at this time that would keep the RTC run­ning." 
The opposition to the bill was led by Rep. Bill McCollum of Florida and other Republicans who want to spend $2.5 billion to compensate the owners of 53 S&Ls that lost an accounting break when Congress passed the original S&L bailout bill. 
When those S&Ls took over sick institutions in the early 1980s, regulators gave them 30 to 40 years to write off the in­herited losses. But Congress abolished the accounting break in 1989 and many institutions that had taken advantage of it were suddenly put on the brink of insolvency. 
McCollum argued that $25 billion in eventual bailout spending could be avoided by pumping $2.5 billion into the institutions now, but his oppo­nents said that would amount to a bailout of S&L shareholders and managers. 
"These were healthy institu­tions ... who used perfectly sound accounting principles sanctioned by the government," McCollum said. 
But, Rep. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y., said, "These S&Ls robbed the taxpayers blind.... Now what the gentleman wants to do is allow them to go back to the trough." 
Legislators of both parties said they wanted to attach var­ious reform proposals to the financing bill and complained that the leadership of the par­ties had blocked them. 

-------------------------------------------~ 


Viewpoint 

Thursday, April 2, 1992 Page 9 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley News Editor .•.....••••.•......... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ••.........••.••.. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ...••••••....Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ....•....... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .........•. Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ...........•.......•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  
 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Poetry column premiers -> 
Dear Readers: poetry to be published in the 
For the first time in its history, column. All submissions must The Observer will be publishing be original and unpublished. a weekly poetry column. Beginning today; one poem will 
The column, premiering this run each Thursday. ... afternoon, is called Thursday's Anyone is eligible for ,,, Verse. The Viewpoint )litpublication. Department is now accepting The Viewpoint Department 
April 2, 1992 


Ribbons around campus remind of sexual assault 
Dear Editor: 
As Sexual Assault Awareness Week comes to a close. I think it would do everyone good to stop and reflect upon the purpose of the week. There were lectures given each night dealing with topics such as prevention and how to go on after an attack. I'm sure that most students did not give much thought to attending these presentations, but is there a student who went the whole week without seeing a single pink ribbon tied around something on campus? 
The reality is that in the past week, I've probably seen over one hundred different ribbons on campus. Each one of these ribbons is a painful reminder that sexual assault occurs. Not only does it occur, but it occurs to people we know on campus. Yet. how many of us took time out, if only for a brief moment, to think about what those rib­bons signify? 
For each ribbon tied around a tree branch, door handle, or handrail there is someone out there Jiving in pain and fear. The ribbon is simple, but the meaning is deep. The ribbon means that somebody was vio­lated. The victims had some-
DOONESBURY 
thing taken from them, some­thing stolen which they weren't willing to give. 
And what does society do? It takes these victims and accuses them. There is something wrong when an overwhelming majority of victims don't report the crimes out of fear. They have been through such an in­tense pain, yet if they make an attempt at justice, they are dragged through the dirt, and made to feel even more pain. I'm sure that many of those ribbons are representative of victims who did not report the grave injustices committed against them. 
Just think back to the ribbons you saw this past week and re­alize that they are not simply ribbons, but symbols of pain. We must be aware that sexual crimes don't discriminate. There is no basis on how vic­tims are chosen. Remember what a survivor wrote in the March 26th Observer: "So next time someone mentions rape, please try to take it seriously. You could be talking to me." Be aware, it can happen to anyone. 
Chris Browning Sorin Hall March 30, 1992 


Thursday's Verse 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
to here i run 

philosophers forming, sophisticates swarming you choose to take a chance the brimstones of knowledge from the fiery college all teach you a thousand ways to dance 
but a beach only a thought's reach glows on the shore waves flow, sea gulls soar singing 'only simplicity speaks honestly' 
the kings of correction try to freeze you in perfection in the tombstones of success they dwell complexity breeding from the confusion they're feeding they mix you up, then wish you well 
but a gleam as in a dream flashed before birth before the body, before the earth warning we all must return to eternity 
dinosaurs daring to capture your caring and make you to see through their eyes they've been there for years, have instilled many fears and dressed you in the web ofold lies 
but a girl far from the swirl spoke from a source 'abandon your course and walk the way of the True' 
they say you're inferior for living from the interior scoffing as they cast out your dice they judge you to last according to their past they do the damage, you pay the price 
but a Word right now sounds absurd was heard from above said, 'first, just love me, and your neighbor as you' 
by Joe Moody Viewpoint Editor 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished, poetic, point of view to: Thursday's Verse 
P.O. BoxQ NO, IN 46556 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
lH£3 WH!lB HOU58 "OPONUNIT. AN U/Tl3 UNIT Of RE'XAROi Nti?P5 /.UHOS& MISSION IS TO 
ftRR&T 0/fTNE6ATIV/3/NFORMA­
TION ON 8/U-Cl-INTON... 

4·2. 
BUT ISN'T 
8USHA TAIJ VU/..NeRAett 
H!M§UfON 7HAT/'3­5/JU 
\ 

7HAT'5 NOTOUR CONC&RN. /A/!3 
IXJN7/:W~ /A/HAT PLAYS. tU& JU5T WCAT!37H£3 
PLAY!fRS. I 
NOTY&T,BUT IT'S HOUS/3­70-H{}{JS£3. 

'Beyond the door, there's peace I'm sure, and I know they'll be no more tears in heaven.' 
Eric Clapton 
She don't like, she don't like, to submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 2, 1992

Page 10 

Du Lac thrusts 'reign of terror' upon campus life 
Hecent dicta have come down 

to us from "them" i.e. du Lac's 
Mt. Olympus wise (beings, 
persons, men, species: choose 
the proper PC term). 
In effect our PCCI's 

(Politically Correct Catholic 
lntellectoids) have declared that 
the University of Notre Dame is 
now to be marked by: 
a) 
a non-smoking environ­ment at a 

b) 
Catholic research univer­sity 

c) 
inspired by social and 

d) 
sports concerns. 




Canons of the past are, of course, passe. After all, the late sainted Professor Frank O'Malley was a chain­smoker-a datum which, to the PCCI mind, apparently misled him in his devotion to 2500 years of Graeco-Judaic­Christian wisdom ... a canon now despised by the pop­Marxists of America's academia. including our new­age enthusiasts at du Lac. 
Derivative of this mindless enthusiasm for "modern" canons is du Lac's variant of the French Revolution's "Committee on Public Safety"-i.e. those erypto-Puritans whose task it is to abolish social and political sin. 
Du Lac's "reign of terror" is now upon us. Our local Committee on Public Safety has declared smokers to be anath­ema, a judgement spared our local new-age enthusiasts for Gay and Lesbian Rights. Calamites are welcome, but not bearers of ash trays. In justice, why not recognize "Satyrnyphomaniacs of du Lac"? 
Well then, good servants of our local sages, let us explore the implications of edict (a) above. In the name of an ante­Fall Eden environment, Satan's smokers must be banished. 
After all, some (questionable) study suggests ill consequences of secondary smoking. Diverse carcinogenic species may be in­haled and so limit our other­wise pleasant journey in, what that nasty ole canon declared, our Vale of Tears (i.e. Life be­fore PC-hood). Assuming these products of tobacco combustion are threats to our immortality, let us then go on--to other sources of life-threatening habits, substances etc. Logic must compel our Committee on Public Safety to ban: 
I) Incense at High Mass 
2) Perfume and cologne 
3) Lipstick 
4) Perspiration 
S) Halitosis 
6) Whiteboard markers 
Prudence dictates that specify not the diverse lntellectoid, Feminoid va­pors/gases which are seemingly generated by diverse sub­committees of our Committee on Public Safety. (Perhaps the alchemists at Common Sense are best qualified to analyze the latter emissions). 
In the wake of banning the items cited above, our Committee on Public Safety can then move on to insure even 

J.J. Carberry 
Guest Columnist 
greater ante-Fall realizations. For example: 
I) Ban the ND "Fight Song"­=in favor of "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes" 
2) Ban "Fighting Irish"-in favor of "Concerned Socialists." 
3) Ban all references to the Irish-fighting or otherwise-in favor of, no, not persons -but "beings"; thus we do not offend Hollywood's defenders of roaches, mice, inter alia, agents and Jane Fonda. A metaphysi­cal triumph that-"NBC pre­sents the Socially Concerned Beings"! 
4) Establish the penultimate socially-concerned international movement -All Societies Safeguarding Every Sensitivity. An acronym that dares not shut up, ASSES. 
I readily admit that the real­ization of the goals of our ever­watchful Committee on Public Safety is not without its prob­lems. To wit: 
What are they to do when, in the JACC, our basketball war­riors perspire? Or in the ND stadium. our Praetorian NBC Guards sweat during their labors? Can our scholars set forth profound (or Gender junk!) thoughts upon "racist" whiteboards via solvent-rich marking pens? 
Worse yet, what is the Politically Correct du Lac Air Force to do when an adventi­tious breeze from our local ethanol plant carries its vapors over the stadium during a Praetorian Guard performance? 
Clearly our force of 40,000 SS (Smoke Sniffers) will be too busy arresting smokers and those harboring socially unac­ceptable thoughts about our opponents (-nay, our mis­guided Brothers in Socialism) to control the air above. Simple! Bomb the local gasohol plant. With, of course, bombs made of natural ingredients. 
We, dear students and col­leagues, are doomed I fear. Unlike our omniscient commit­tees on yes, ante-Fall perfec­tion, we are but mere finite mortals. 
Our self-annointed sophists (they, them) know what is best for we simple, inferior souls. 
"They" are creating a "City on the Hill"-an Eden. A now un­popular theology, philosophy aptly termed that attitude "hubris." 
While, dear students, you seek entry to the many rich courses (euphemistically termed "recommended univer­sity electives") and are denied, do take solace that your emo­tive instincts (v. those of your mind) can be nourished by Gender, Race, Peace etc. "studies." 
Be content, students; let "Nanny" du Lac hold your hands. Let not your minds be disturbed by: 
I) The Year of the Woman-celebrated by a display in the Hesburgh Library of the life, times and thoughts of -no, not Our Lady, or Mother Theresa, or Dorothy Day-no! Emma Goldman? Yes, dear students, Emma Goldman! Who next upon the Golden Dome? Roseanne? Why not Madonna? Or each "mooning" the other? 
2) The declaration that the best thing we do at Notre Dame is "pray together." I surely do not gainsay praying-but if this is our chief achievement then we ought to dismiss the faculty (save, of course, the "research" beings) and declare ourselves a "monastery" sustained by a so­cially concerned Praetorian Guard of jocks "hired" to enter­tain the non-smoking subway alums and, via NBC, fill the cof­fers of a "non-Roman, Catholic Research" enterprise. 
Better yet, a "College of Social and Sports Concerns" appended to a research mill. This, some call "Stanford." The alternative is called "Princeton." The most promising original we called the University of Notre Dame du Lac. 
If you prefer the present variant-"Smoke (and social sin) free Tetzel Tech"-then you, they and their dreadful committees on Public Safety can go straight to Hell or to their own "heaven," where, of course, "Lasciate ogni sper­anza, voi che entrate." Dante's words should now be "new­age" logo. 
J.J. Carberry is a Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cartoonish portrayal of Arab terrorism is innacurate and one-sided 
Dear Editor: Now it is true that no one and filled out by an appeal to non-violent"? And that Israel made contemporary. But at 
I write in response to Hev. should, but that some persons general concensus. Through justifies its political postures worst I think that some of May's Doug May's letter (The do reduce the troubles in Israel his own encounters he has been "simply by recalling the claims are corrupting as they Observer, March 20. 1992). to Arab terrorism. But it's also "convinced," along with "most Holocaust and Western anti­stand: I note here that he May is bothered by your run­true that some who are surely other foreign government and Semitismn"? makes an implicit connection ning of a political cartoon de­Zionists don't, and that some non-government organization I wouldn't care to estimate between Jewish suffering under picting a Jewish cemetery filled who aren't fanatical Zionists do. workers (as well as most numerical probabilities here, National Socialism and the with victims of Arab terrorism. I suspect that it's even true that mainline Christian workers and but the first two claims are present Palestinian controversy. He finds the depiction "racist." most who do aren't Zionists at even some Jews), that Israel likely false, and the last is ab­This is perverse, and one hardly and seems to think that its all, and hence not fanatical represents the abused and op­surd. (What, for example, of the knows what to do beyond publication is a function of a Zionists. pressed people that has become rich roles played by Torah saying so. general "ignorance of Middle the empowered abuser and injuctions regarding the land of The tone of his letter is Eastern history." We should avoid thinking that oppressor of others, namely Israel?) consistently patronizing, and 
Were we more adequately in­Israel is brimming over with Palestinians." This leads me to wonder occasionally insulting; we're to formed about that history we'd reductionist "fanatics." And about a more transparent and, I study the Middle East, now that be able "to realize what has then the matter of "injustice," He has come to see that think, more serious problem: we're past our "wetting dia­been going on in in its extent and details, is "Israel has raped the May is, from all indications, just pers" of course, and in our ex­Israel/Palestine for the last 44 vexed; indeed it is, I would Palestinians," a "dysfunctional the sort of reductionist he is so aminations to recognize our years, and especially the last think, precisely what's at issue. behavior" which Israel has eager to criticize. We're "ignorance," to sense the domi­25," and presumably we'd not But the remainder of May's sought to justify "simply by re­supposed to see that the trou­nation of "pro-Israel propa­then witness-or at least not commentary does little to calling the Holocaust and bles in Israel are really to be ganda." And, in the end, we're without some outcry-the publi­address it, or much else. For Western anti-Semitism." explained in terms of Israel's to apologize for a "lack of taste cation of such cartoons. example, given his expressed For our part, we're to recog­having become relevantly like and sensitivity, and reliability." 
The "we." I take it, refers not aims, I find it queer that he nize that the Palestinians (in a its former-persecutors, that I cannot help thinking that only to the Observer staff, but to offers us little by way of history. question-begging phrase) have what is actually going on is the May's own comprehension of the Notre Dame community Most strikingly, he shows no a "human and internationally consequence of the struggles of the region's history is sub­generally, and particularly to evidence of inhabiting in any recognized right to their land," a new Palestinian resistance standard, that it is he who is those students who "weren't meaningful way the Israelis' and that though they've some­against an oppressive colonial unreliable in relevant and im­even wetting diapers" during own "texts." These might be times "responded to violence occupation, that what's gen­portant ways, and in a piece of the 1967 conflict (but who I narratives concerning violence with violence," their protest has uinely close to the heart of writing which he hopes will in­assume were, in most cases, at against Sabras from the been "generally non-violent." things is "racism." fluence those coming into con­least hesitant to wet them by founding of Petah Tiqwa in But it is simply not true that siderations of these tragically the Yom Kippur war). 1870 through the time of Herzl, "most" of the persons whom But in seeking to unmask, complicated affairs. I'm neither 
His aim is to inform these the repressive measures of the May cites agree with him that May ends up instructing by un­a fanatical Jewish nor Christian students adequately; he hopes Mandate, the Arab League's Israel is abusive, victimizing, warranted ideological simplifi­Zionist. that his remarks will serve as war-armed and led by the and oppressive. cation. In so proceeding he is I still think that May is fairly some part of an antidote to a British-against the Jewish Leaving aside the philo­at best naive. I suspect that he well off the beam. His article is (presumably unwary) "racism." remnant during 1948, and the sophical worry about there be­is likely to hurt his own cause little more than the But May's commentary leaves like. ing such a thing as a "right" to generally by falling into sim­propagandistic expression of his me not a little baffied, resonat­Without inhabiting these and land, it's enough to note that, plistic interpretations, but with own kind of fanaticism. ing as it does with a supposed other stories along with those of again, there isn't the concensus respect to "racism" there's an Moving away from this sort of authority and instructive zeal the Arabs, May cannot hope to May thinks there is regarding especially subtle danger. thing might move us past the on matters Israeli and comprehend the present this one. For that matter, the The troubles in Israel don't mere generating of heat toward Palestinian, yet saying precious conditions or fruitfully to in­marshalling of some concensus have centrally to do with some kind of light. I close with little which casts any light upon struct regarding them. doesn't immediately move us racism, and our responses to the thought that if anyone them. One would thus expect him to any particular way, given that them shouldn't either. May uses should apologize, it shouldn't be 
Let's consider first a few di­say something about these mat­political concensus can "race" uncritically to advance The Observer. I wonder if Mr. alectical oddities. May begins ters. Instead, he is content to (notoriously) fall behind any his agenda, but needs to recall May shouldn't apologize for by asking: "Could anyone ex­narrate his own journey from number of mistakes. that "Arab" is not a racial clas­endeavoring in a way which cept a fanatical Jewish or being "pro-Israel" to being an And, of course, there are sification, any more than might corrupt the youth? If he Christian zionist (sic) still be advocate of the current about May's discourse looming "Jewish" is, and too that "race" shouldn't apologize, then he able the tsic) reduce the injus­Palestinian "resistance move­questions regarding fact: are as a concept played a large role should offer a genuine Apology. tice and bloodshed in the Holy ment" against an occupying we to think, for example, that in the ideological mind of the Land to terrorism by Arabs?" colonial force. Arab violence has only been a National Socialist. Wesley Kirkpatrick The rhetorical force is toward His remarks, based upon response to violence? That the One should be wary of the Off -campus "no other sort could." inevitably selective experience, intifada has been "generally terminology of ancient errors March 26, 1992 
...



Accent 
Thursday, April 2, 1992 page 11 

World-famous flute and harp duo of Megan Meisenbach and Mary Golden will perform Friday at Saint Mary's 
By MARA DIVIS States, earning fame Carnegie Hall Recital Saint Mary's Accent Editor with audiences and win­Hall!. 
T 
ning yearly touring Golden has performed he flute and grants from the Mid­regularly in Texas as harp duo of America Arts Alliance part of the harp duo M e g a n and the Texas Kythara. She has also Meisenbach Commission on the Arts. performed with the San and Mary according to a biography Antonio Opera Theatre, Golden will offer of the duo. the San Antonio something for everyone In addition, Symphony and the Austin at tomorrow night's Meisenbach has also Symphony. concert at Saint Mary's been a First Prize winner College, said the of the National Flute In addition to performers. Association Chamber performing, the duo has Meisenbach and Music Competition. As a most recently released a Golden, world renowned solo performer, compact disc entitled performers from Austin, Meisenbach has toured Debussy, Ravel, Bach, Texas, will bring their Europe, including perfor­which is receiving critical act, which includes a mances in Copenhagen, acclaim, the biography wide variety of pieces Rome, Brussels and said. from different musical Frankfurt. Golden said the duo eras to Saint Mary's Little likes to have fun and Theater tomorrow night S he has also communicate with the at 8 p.m., and hope to studied with audience as they both entertain the w o r I d perform. audience and have a renowned "We like to have a good good time. flutists James time with our audience," "We try to keep a our Galway in Lucerne, she said. "We like to program as varied as Switzerland, and with invite them up and meet possible," Golden said. Jean-Pierre Rampal for them after the show." "We like to think we have five summers at the Tickets for Meisenbach a wide audience appeal. Academie International and Golden concert are Some of our music is d'Ete in Nice, France, priced at $7 and $6 and classical. some of it is according to the are on sale at the jazz and contemporary." biography. O'Laughlin Box Office at The duo was formed at In addition, Saint Mary's. The Box the University of Texas in Meisenbach has Office is open from 10 1976, and has since performed to a sold-out a.m. to 4 p.m. today and toured the central United crowd at New York City's tomorrow. 

The Marshall Tucker Band brings country music to South Bend 
By MATTHEW MOHS Where We Belong, Searchin' For A Accent Writer Rainbow, Long Hard Ride, Carolina Dreams. and Together Forever 
With the numerous cross-over hits achieved gold record status. 
by people such as Bonnie Raitt and Carolina Dreams and Searchin' Garth Brooks in the last couple of For A Rainbow continued to sell well years. it should be no surprise that and reached the platinum mark. 
the Marshall Tucker Band has Their most popular song is the reemerged as a popular act. cross-over chart topper "Heard It In If the nightlife of South Bend has A Love Song," while other hits have 
seemed to be lacking some pizazz included "Can't You See" and "Fire lately, the Marshall Tucker Band On The Mountain." may add some excitement tonight. The band has undergone some They will perform at the Heartland dramatic changes over the years. Texas Bar-B-Que and Dance Hall in Some of the original members have downtown South Bend. left the group, which helped push 
The Marshall Tucker Band has had the band in new directions. Doug a very successful career since it was Gray and Jerry Eubanks decided to founded in the early '70s. The band make the Marshall Tucker Band ex­came up with a creative blend of periment in blues and jazz while country-western and rock that continuing its country rock appealed to crowds of all types. foundation. 
·­

In their twenty year career, the Gray, founder if the band, is the fan as he grew up and now adds his the style of the band. band has sold millions of albums. main vocalist and has given the voice to the band's distinctive style. They bring this tradition of 


The Marshall Tucker Band opened for the Allman Brothers in 1973 and one year later were the stars of their own show. 
Their debut record, The Marshall Tucker Band, along with A New Life, group its sense of tradition. Eubanks makes up the musical core of Marshall Tucker by playing a number of instruments ranging from the flute to the saxophone. Stuart Swanlund was a Marshall Tucker 
The rest of band mixes talent, experience, and musical heart. Rusty Milner brings a soulful guitar to the group. Veteran bass player Tim Lawter, drummer Ace Allen, and pianist Don Cameron all add to excitement with them tonight. The concert starts at 8:30 p.m. and tickets are available at the Heartland for ten dollars. They will perform a mix of their old hits and their new singles. 
-

Accent 
Thursday, April 2, 1992
page 12 


Father Charles Fiore, founder of National Pro-Life PAC, speaks on consequences of abortion 
By TONY POPANZ Accent Writer 
In its first month after conception, a human fetus has the same basic traits of a newborn, including a head, with eyes. ears, mouth and brain, and a body, with a digestive tract, a bloodstream and a heart. Though unborn, this inconspicuous one breathes the breath of human life. 
The fate of millions of unwanted unborn rests on the dedication of people like Father Charles Fiore, who founded our nation's first Pro­Life Political Action Committee {National Pro-Life PAC). 
Acknowledged by the New York Times Magazine as "one of the pioneers of the Pro-Life Movement," Fiore will speak today first at noon in 101 Law School, and second at 
7:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room on the first floor of LaFortune. 
Father Fiore. a Dominican priest. holds a master's degree in both theology and philosophy. He has held the respectable positions of coordinator of the worldwide chapter of the Dominican Order and invited professor of Christology at the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas in Rome, and has appeared on Good Morning America and Crossfire. 
Fiore knows how relevant family and abortion issues are to his existence because of his grandmother who, as a woman impregnated by rape, bore his father before she emigrated from Sicily. 
Since before the Roe vs. Wade the nation than did those who ratified the Dred Scott Decision," commented Fiore. 


"It is ironic that we worry about the snail darter becoming extinct, and we are outraged by the clubbing of baby seals, but when human beings are killed in our midst, the liberal line is that 'it is no one's business but the mother's.' When Nazis exterminated millions in their death camps, it was everybody's business. When blacks were shipped into the U.S. and were consequently enslaved, it was everybody's business, especially in that it caused a civil war," said Fiore. 
"Why, then, isn't abortion ev­erybody's business?" 
"One cannot hide abortion simply because the victims are out of our sight," continued Fiore. 
The major barriers he sees in the way of the illegalizing of abortion are politicians who would rather be reelected than right. 
Under this pretense, Fiore will give his talks today. He plans to focus on the Pro-Life situation in this election year. Referring to abortion as "the issue that won't go away," Fiore implores all Pro-Lifers to get involved politically, for every candidate for president is required to state his position for the taking of life. However, he cautions voters to be wary of other important issues. as well. 
Ultimately, in return for the efforts of all nationwide Pro-Life efforts, Fiore hopes to see a human rights amendment passed, observing that human life is sacred from 
decision, Fiore has worked with young married and unmarried couples. As he began to notice the atrophy of family bonds from the 1950s onward, Fiore discovered that abortion had become a viable solution for young pregnant women. As a result, he decided to address these issues before they became problems. 
"Abortion, which takes the most innocent lives among us, is never the solution to other human problems. Pro-Lifers have always provided compassionate alternatives to human suffering at every stage of life," said Fiore. 

Because of what Fiore recognized as a need for compassion, support, and education, in 1970, while studying at Berkeley, he founded IDEA Inc., a foundation dedicated to fulfilling such needs. 
"It {abortion) creates several problems. Data is there to show that once a woman takes the life of her unborn, she never forgets it," explained Fiore, "abortion is nothing less than the taking of human life after it has begun. After conception, there are two bodies, not one." 
Fiore discredits the thought that abortion is a woman's issue by asserting that it is a human rights issue. 
After the passing of the Roe vs. Wade decision on January 22, 1973, Fiore immediately vowed, "not over my dead body." Furthermore, he made the resolution to "make the TV and newspaper commentators eat their words." 
"Seven of nine nonelected justices had no more authority to decide for 
conception to birth, and from birth to death. He offers guidance for realizing such a dream. 
"What we can do is to provide alternatives for abortion. We should help agencies that provide alternatives to women, while also providing education in these matters. All spiritual and corporal works of mercy have to be part of our Pro-Life commitment. Educate yourself about the 'facts of life.' And, especially this year, get involved politically." 
LULAC variety show promotes Latin American culture 
0 
By JENNIFER GUERIN dramatic prose and poetry the ISO Festival, and Black with serious undertones. "Latin Expressions" is one of Assistant Accent Editor readings of original works. Images." It resembles each of Espino claimed the show also the premiere events of LULAC's Ballet Folklorico Azul e Oro, a these campus events in a provides an opportunity for calendar each year. The fifty to ne year of Notre Dame group focusing on different capacity, combining aspiring writers and one hundred active members of preparations will folk dances to traditional elements of humor and satire performers to display their the organization have been culminate this Mexican songs, will also per­--------------talents. planning the show since last Friday evening. April form. Although it is not specif­"In their skits and According to Espino. LULAC year, and Espino feels their ef­3, when the League ically a Latin organization, the has two main objectives for forts will come together quite
-
of United Latin American dance group Troop ND has comendy routines, the show. With the dramatic successfully. 
Citizens {LULAC) presents its been invited to make a cameo however, they hope to interpretations and the "Latin Expressions" will ap­third annual variety show, appearance. traditional songs and dances. pear at the Library Auditorium 
'laugh at the 
-
"Latin Expressions." Manuel Espino, the president they hope to promote the Latin at 7:30 p.m. Friday evening. Members of LULAC have of LULAC when the first pro­stereotypes and, in American culture. In their Tickets are $2 for students and prepared approximately two duction of "Latin Expressions" doing so, dispel them."' skits and comedy routines, $3 for non-students, and are hours of entertainment for was organized three years ago, however, they hope to "laugh available at the Lafortune 
their audience, with acts rang­suggested the show is "a com­at the stereotypes and. in Information Desk or at the ing from humorous skits to bination of the Keenan Revue, -Manuel Espino doing so, dispel them." door. 
The Observer page 13 
Thursday, April 2, 1991 

ND/SMC Sailing places fifth 
Observer Staff Report 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club travelled to Clemson, South Carolina, and placed fifth out of ten teams in its first inter­sectional regatta of the spring season. 
The University of North Carolina at Charleston won the regatta, with Florida finishing second and Penn third. 
"We were pleased with our finish because the East Coast schools always have been strong," said club Commodore Adrienne Briggs. 
Sophomore Michael Kane 
skippered with Briggs to a sec­ond-place finish in the A divi­sion, while seniors Vinnie Whibbs and Moira Sullivan combined to finish sixth in the B division. 
The team has two important competitions coming up in the next couple of weeks. This weekend, it will travel to the Cincinnati area to compete in a regatta hosted by Miami of Ohio. ND/SMC will go up against area rivals Michigan, Michigan State, Wisconsin, Purdue and Ohio State. 
"We'll take a mix of upper­classmen and some of the freshmen that did so well at the Icebreaker," explained Briggs, "so it will be interesting to see how we compare with our Midwest rivals." 

Then over Easter break, the club will head to the Connecticut College Regatta, which Briggs described as "definitely our toughest competition all semester." 
"Sailing against the Southeast colleges (at Clemson) so early in the season should help us prepare for (Connecticut)," said Briggs. 

On strike! APPhoto The NHL players went on strike yesterday for the first time ever. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m: All classifieds must be prepaid. The


Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Lost: Blue ID case lost on 4/1  Newly remodeled 4-bdrm,  One way ticket. Sth. Bnd. to  DESPERATELY SEEKING  S E N I 0 R S:  
NOTICES  in the Huddle sometime between 11-12 at lunch.  2-bath home. Near Lafayette Square Town homes. All kitchen  Pgh. on 4/15. $80. Call Lee. # 1200  GRADUATION TIX!!! My Grandmother who raised  E  
Contains NY license, NO id,  appliances, washer/dryer. 2-car  me is an invalid. She'll never  
WORD PROCESSING 256·6657  Senior Bar card, money card, Detex. If found, please call  garage. $700/mo. Ref. & 1 0-mo. lease required. 277-4583.  PERSONAL  get another chance to see NO and I want to make this one  N "NEW JOB LISTING" HANDOUT AVAILABLE IN  
Dee at 277-5798.  visit the best. Please call  CAREER & PLACEMENT  
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  Summer sublet-Turtle Creek  BOKKKKK...  if you have tix to spare .  SERVICES OFFICE. PICK  
Pandora's Books corner of NO ave & Howard  WANTED  2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Need 4, but will take any number. STEVE #1371  0 UP YOURS TODAY.  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAPIII  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  R  
SUMMER JOBS  Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL  
TYPING AVAILABLE  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4  289-1993. Office near campus.  GROUP#43  s  
287-4082.  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  students rent negotiable. 2  will meet Sunday night at  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt  We are not strong  8:30 pm in Montgomery  Need ride to Purdue  
Typing  NEAR LAKE PLACID  X3414or3410  Theatre of LaFortune  Grand Prix @ April 3  
Pickup & Delivery  CALL 1-800-786-8373  You should be with us, feeling like  please call Karen 4943  
277-7406  SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE  we do...  Featuring an AI movie  
Female roommate wanted for May.  CREEK) 272-9540!  "CLOSETLAND"  Tuesday night, at the GSU  
Seniors-Seniors  Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  Please join us!  Candidate's Forum, presiden-tial  
Graduating and still don't  lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $415/mo plus  GRADUATING SENIOR -FEMALE  Winning Hotel, has rooms for  candidate MIKE KELLY was asked  
have job plans?  utilities. call (312) 975-5035.  -LOOKING FOR ROOMIE FOR  Graduation weekend. Located at  Christmas in April!!!!!  what he thought were the important  
New company that has been  MISH/ELKHART AREA. JOYCE  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  issued facing women on this  
actually adding hundreds of  STUDENT NEEDED to manage the  284-5319  (12 miles from South Bend)  "I'm telling you why ... ."  campus. Was his answer  
people thru dramatic  Notre Dame area of an Ann Arbor  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  A) the lack of attention given  
expansion seeks motivated/  Business. No experience nee. but  Attractive studio's in lovely old  deposit per room. Send letter with  Only two days until the annual  to RAPE on campus,  
career oriented individuals to  must be motivated, May 'til July.  Mansion 1/2 mile from NO 225­ deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,  Christmas in April celebration!!!  B) the alarming deanh of WO­ 
help expansion into new  Good$. 313-930-6962 2-5 p.m.  300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624  Elkhart, IN 46514.  MEN FACULTY at Notre  
markets. Interviews will be  for summer and fall rentals.  (Final Four will be televised.)  Dame, or  
held on April 8 & 9 at Career  Looking for experience to place on  Where can you find the most unique  C) GYNECOLOGICAL EXAMS at  
and Placement. Call student  your resume? Need Notre Dame or  6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO  food on campus ... Greenfields Cafe.  ·Santa's BIG RED helpers  Health Services?  
liason at x3457 to set up  St. Mary's students for part-time  CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306  If you picked C), you hit the nail on  
times.  sales positions, from April through  NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation  the head. Thank you, candidate  
July, 1992, to sell advertising in  FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy  please call Neal at 283-1159  To the blonde in the Dodge Aries  MIKE KELLY, for having the insight  
THE BOSS IS BACK!!  Daily Shillelagh. Seeking  3-story house, ample parking,  Turbo:  and vision to see to the heart of this  

 motivated, enthusiastic, outgoing,  security, close to NO. 272-5509.  important topic. You really got to the  
LOST/FOUND  and professional students with reliable transportation. Send  MOVING TO CHICAGO?  Custom-made HAIR-BOWS  I've got a chocolate shake I!I (But a cucumber still won't give you  bottom of the issue.  

 resume to Karen Prebys, Penny  TWO 1991 SMC GRADS NEED  a hickey.)  Dear Mr. Anonymous Caller:  
LOST: One gold hoop earring  Saver, P.O. Box 326, South Bend,  NONSMOKING FEMALE  by Lynn and Sally  Oh, geez!  Sorry, but you'll need to  
with a spiral pattern  IN 46624.  ROOMMATE BEGINNING JUNE 1.  clarify your last message.  
If found please return to 214  $290/MO INCL. HEAT, PARTIAL  call x2764  See ya at the party!  Cordially, Roger Hipp  
Farley or call x4049  We are looking for a mature and  FURNISH, N. SIDE APT. 1 BLOCK  
dependable student to babysit our  FROM LAKE. PLEASE CALL ASAP  -various materials, designs  hey nit  Notre Dame Women's Choir  
Stilllostl Petite green women's  newborn for 30 to 40 hours a week,  (LOCAL) 219-271-1443.  and colors available- Spring Concert  
class ring. Inside reads "ACS '93".  in our home, starting May 18th.  ASK FOR GARRETI  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  Sunday, April 4, 8 PM  
Lost on St. Pat's Day. If found  Experience preferred; personal or  Info on semester, year, graduate,  Sacred Heart Church  
PLEASE return to 143 Farley Hall or  academic references accepted and  ROOM FOR RENT.  In the heart of every woman, there  summer and internship programs in  All are invited to attend!  
caiiAngie at X4095.  salary negotiable. Please call us at  Privacy, garage, cable, utilities incl.,  is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  
287-3247.  wash/dryer. Nice home-must see.  come out. ..  Melbourne. Programs start at  I NEED GRADUATION TIXXX!!I  
LOST: Gold Louisville Cardinal  291-9093.  $3520. Call 1-800·878-3696.  
charm with ruby eye. Sentimental  Need a ride to Vanderbilt any  CONGRATULATIONS!  IF YOU CAN HELP PLEASE CALL  
value! Reward! Call271-1177  weekend. Will help with expenses, etc.  FOR SALE  TO THE NEWEST MEMBER OF THE SENIOR BAR "TEAM"  The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans!  x2219 , ask for ANDY or DAN.  
Lost: Gold Watch  Call Rich@ X1695  JASON  
Niewland -LaFortune area ?  For Sale:  LUBANSKI  to the athletic dept.:  THANKYOUII!!  
Mariax4421  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  '83 NISSAN SENTRA:  your time is gonna come  
· fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  4-dr, power brakes, excellent  S E N I 0 R S:  -led zeppelin  I'll hold my peace  
lost : men's gold Sieko watch in  Free transportation! Room & Board!  mileage, engine hums like a dream,  
Rock basement on Sat. Call X4608.  Over 8,000 openings. No  new exhaust/brakes, great travel  E  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  To Colleen Cichon  
experience necessary. Male or  car, very reliable!  Jet there anytime for $169 from the  Please "come" to my Formal Sat.  
lost: set of keys: One imprinted with  Female. For employment program  $1,950 (firm)  N "NEW JOB LISTING"  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  From Glen pg 43 in the "fox" book  
ND3, the other with 244. Don't  call Student Employment Services  Call Joe: 273-2605  HANDOUT AVAILABLE IN  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  
remember where I lost them. call  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  CAREER & PLACEMENT  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.)  To Henry Goose in Fisher Hall­ 
X4608  STUDENTS & PARENTS!  SERVICES OFFICE. PICK  For details:  Mabel is ready to bong some beer  
Need ride to North Carolina  SAVE on those housing costs. Buy  0 UP YOURS TODAY.  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  down her beak and waddle to some  
LOST: gold chain w/heart  May 8th or 9th  this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes.  Mickey Mouse if you are!  
overlapping another heart (w/  Will split tolls and gas  Get a break on your taxes, and a  R  VOTE FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN  Goooooosssssse  
stone). If found, please call  Call Dave 3633  return on your investment after  SBA TREASURER. JAMIE  
Stephanie at X4914. Much  graduation. Call Janet Knapp at  s  O'BRIEN  LULAC'S LATIN EXPRESSIONS  
sentimental value. Reward Offered  Need a job for next year? Nanny for  RE/MAX 100 realty for more  will be Friday April3, at 7:30p.m.  
newborn in our Granger home, M-F,  information. 219-255-5858 or 219­ S E N I 0 R S:  BREEN-PHILLIPS 2ND ANNUAL  in the Library Auditorium.Cost will  
LOSTI LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST!  begin late Aug. Live in or out. 271­ 277-7402.  EUCHRE TOURNAMENT!!  be $2.00 students$3. 00 non­ 
On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP­ 1935  E  SIGN-UPS IN NOH AND SOH  students. Come one come all to the  
17B business calculator somewhere  I STRING TENNIS RACKETS  FROM TUES. MARCH 31 TO  event that'llknock your socks off!! I!!  
on campus. SERIOUS REWARD!!!! John x3588.  FOR RENT  Cheaper than the Eck! grips, stencils, whatever  N "NEW JOB LISTING" HANDOUT AVAILABLE IN  THURS, APRIL 2.  See you there !!!l!!ll!lllll!!!!!!lll!lll!!!ll  
LOST Men's spiral hairbone  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  you need! Chuck x2226  CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE. PICK 0 UP YOURS TODAY.  NEED A RIDE TO RALEIGH/DURHAM AREA FOR EASTER BREAK? Looking for 1 or  r----------, I The  ....  
necklace somwhere between Flanner, Comp/Math, and ROTC Please call Mike x1143  3 Bedroom Walk to Campus  TICKETS  R  2 people to share driving, gas, tolls, etc. Call Laura x4804  COMPUIERI nrl'ORI ._______. "Seaa ::S.Boo~csJ  
LOSTI!!I!!!!!!II!I!!!!!I!IIIl!!!LOST:  $555 Month 232 3616  For Sale: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. Jim x1558.  s HOLY MACKEREL!  THE TUTUS ARE BACK...  1 Learn qulcker, better w11h a pc:roona1 dala·ba.oe and computerized.,....I references right at your llngertlpsl  
GE DOUBLE CASSETIE PLAYER @ At Zahm Jam at Theo's. If you know of its whereabouts please call: 284-4382 Thanks Easter Bunny  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12 NEW UNITS· 1300 sq. ft.­Ironwood & Bulla-2 B/R -2 Bath ­available immediately· call287­0534 or 271-9268. Ideal house for graduate student with family. 3 bdr 2 bath. One block from NO. 637 Peashway. $525 month 234-1714  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SEN I 0 RS I!!! EASY M 0 N E Y I!!!! Cash in those grad. tix for some serious greenbacks. Call Dennis at 271-0104.  IT'S THE FISHERMAN'S BUFFET DINNER FRIDAY, APRIL 3,1992 NDHANDSDH ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY I Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt  ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. Make friends and serve the community by joining NOTRE DAME CIRCLE K Org. Meeting 7:00 PM April 8 Montgomery Theater  I·Corwerslon FtJctors (PbyalcatCheml1•n.e Ponoc1tc Table tGen Cbem)• Qualllattve Analus!s (Lab Cbem)I•Qluallusts A TCA ~!Biocheml I•Funl:tJcns/StrudJ.Jres tBio/Bot/Zool"Circular FIDw llodd (Macro Econ)I"The u.s. CGnstuutlon {Hlat/Govt)I.C<lrnparaUve RdtgtDns (Soc Studleol I =~...:.:=::=:.'~.:I (3.5" ar 5.251. IUlO.OO per tllk (U.S. check or """'"" ordaiiD:I D.E.D. ElEC'IRONIC PUBIJSHINGI 10306 E UVEOo\K.AVE  - 
Lost: Someone accidentially took my navy blue Jansport Bookbag at SOH wedn  1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Paul Tsongas wants tickets!! Total  and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  Any? Call John 273-9111 I need two tickets for Graduation.  1 MOIIt ~.u~.r~= Houra. l~~~~J  
morning. Call X1025 Brian  232-2794.  $$for 2-4 grad tix Mickey x1846  information.  Please call Rebecca: 284-4160  

~---~---~~-~---~ --­
Thursday, April 2, 1992

page 14 The Observer 

Results from Wednesday's Games TODAY'S SCHEDULE 
TRANSACTIONS 
Krunchy Frogs del. Sammus Pathetim.rs & the !lutts X Express, 21-12 5 guys who can1 score del. 5 Girts WI~ dldn1 score wtlh, 21-10 

STEPAN CT 1 
Brazilian Turriplke Dlppln Hicks vs. Green Eggs and Ham (and Bll~. 4:00 Chicken fried ateal< del. Beat things come In am. paci<agea, 21-5 
Gerry'8 Klda del. People who love NO, People who Ike NO, and Jose, 21-8 Frar House Five vs. Wong Smtth and the Sushi Kings. 4:45 

BASEBALL We'na NOT Frazier del. Pork Fried Rice, 21-17 5 Guys who Walk Alone & Need No One va. Push HAlong, 5:30 
Americen Leegue Knockln' Boac del. Maatera baiting for card, 21-5 
Pack Rldets vs. Doc's Gonna Be Pissed I, 6:15 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Placed Carlton Flak,
4 Scores & 7 bMrs del. Team 586, forteh STEPAN CT 2 
catcher, on the 15-day disabled list

Tender lolna del. The Pka's, 21-6 We'na Going to Die vs. Bricks, 4:00 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Placed Joel Skinner
The String Quintet del. The many lathe,. of Vince, 21-7 Stojko Vrankovtc & the 4 Horsemen vs. Beef Stew over Blacuh, 4:45 catcher; Jim Thome, third baseman; and
Team497 del. E?. 21-14 No Blood..No Foul vs. Slaves of Slothor...&Siothor, 5:30 Low-Densky Wolf Bak del. The Chuckers, 21-8 Live and Let Ole vs. Duschenzys, 6:15 
Reggie Jefferson, first baseman, on the 15­Team Choata del. The 'Gila, 21-17 
day disabled list. Signed Ted Power,

STEPAN CT 3
2.0.B.A. del. The Grlngoa. fortek pitcher, to a one-year contractDribbling Cocks vs. Blues Brothers, 4:00No More Sham.r del. Hypothetical Sex, 21-5 KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Sent KevinFutile Unlwrs~y Censor vs. John Macleod's Fro-pickers, 4:45Huban's Heroes del. Grand Talons, 21-1g Koslofski, outfielder; Rico Rossy and LuisTime to Fly Again vs. Thai Aln1 Mayo, 5:30

4 take k to the hole, 1 who likes baci<door del. 2 Too Many Acnone's Exist 21-6 · Media, Infielders; and Tim Spahr, catcher, toRunner, Hunter, Ch8888head, & Olher cigar Smoke,. vs We Want Bush, 6:15
AIDS, Doug Henning, Houndlnl, and 2 Other Thlngathat would be nothing without Magic del. Bob's Country Bunker 21·8 La Raza del. Team 254,21-17 ' STEPAN CT 4 
their minor league camp for reassignment 

SEATTLE MARINERS-Returned Donnie Take the Pain d. Why are the irish NIT? Too Few Wlna Too Many Ross's, 21-8 Moloko and Uhravlolence vs. Stockman's Bar, 4:45 
Team 628 del. Team 310, 21-14 A Castraso, 3 Slamme,., & a Ballhandler vs. Amldes and Aldehydes. 4:00 
Elliott. pitcher, to the Philadelphia Phillles Who are-Kidding? del. AI-Salaam-Aiakum ~. 21-15 Schwing! vs. 4 Studs & a Guy wtth 2 112 Dollars. 5:30 
by sending him outright to Scranton­Wash 0118r when the Ge<man's Bombed Peart Harbor d. Money Men 21-19 Duel-tapers va. 4 Men and a Baby, 6:15 
Wilkes-Barre of the International League.
Mlaslaalppl Frted Cat11ah del. 5 Girls with Good Ball-handling, 21·10 • TEXAS RANGERS-Placed John Barlleld and

STEPAN CT 5
h Can1 gel arrr Worn than L•t Year del. Osha Kal Tau, 21·9 5 Guys who can1 scona...on the court vs. UDF IV: Beatln A Dead Ho,.e, 4:00 Hector Fajardo, pitchers, and Bill Haselman.

Amateur Phalactlca del. Spontaneous Pneumothorax, 21-15 ExlstentiaiiBI Express vs. 4 Dudes and a Flamlng Gomer. 4:45 catcher, on the 15-day disabled list,

5 Guya who Shoo! it Hard oil the Rim del. NO 46556, 21·9 

Ear Wax vs. Spot-ua 19 and We'U Kick your butt, 5:30 retroactive to March 28.
Facuky Jokea del. WrJ'na Too Sexy for our own Good, 21-10 

slow-Motion vs. 5 Guys Who Penetrate to the Hole and Shoot, 6:15 
National Lee9ue Mr. Kipper and the Unfon~een Realizations del. Soul Train, 21-11 STEPAN CT 6You Can1 Spell Rat without A.A. del. Thunderatuda and a Hender, 21-15 ATLANTA BRAVES-Optioned Mark Wohlers, 
Saluubrtoua-n-Calllplgous del. The 5 Horsemen, 21-6 Now or Never vs. 5 Girls who Lovato Play whh Balls, 4:00
t 
pitcher, and Keith Mitchell, outfielder, to 
Migraines and Other Headaches del. nyou IO&eto ua you lUCk, 21-5 Team 97 vs. Magic, Wlh • McDonald& & 2 others who served over 20,000, 4:45 Richmond of the International League. Sent
Dlased by Peter del. Hamburger Patty Oh Hal'88, 22-20 Beloit Bomba,. vs. Club Shenanigans, 5:30 Lambler Wanna-be va. 5 Guys Vttale wouldn't watch play basketball, 6:15 
Randy St. Claire, pitcher, to their minor

L 
league camp for reassignment. Waived Mike

BOOKSTORE CT 9 
Heath, calcher, lor the purpose of givingPass the Beemuts II va. Team 66. 4:00 him his unconditional release.

MIDWESTERN COLLEGIATE CONFERENCE Brother's Chitwoord vs. Beta Rho Nu Chl, 4:45 Leaking lrrplants vs Bookstore's short. Foul hard, 5:30 
CHICAGO CUBS-Placed Jerome Walton,
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
outfielder. on the 15-day disabled list,Cavity Creeps va. Gloria Whole & the Purple Helmets, 6:15

MCC GAMES ALL GAMES TEAM W L W L 
retroactive to March 28. Traded Ty Griffin,

BOOKSTORE CT 10 
Infielder, to the Cincinnati Reds for Scott EVANSVILLE 2 1 11 13 DAYTON 3 1 7 14 PTPer's vs. White Men can1 Jurrp, 4:00 
Bryant, outfielder. Assigned Bryant; Lance DETHOIT MERCY 1 2 5 7 Unlicensed Gynecologists vs. In Bounds, In Range. 4:45 
Four Shins plus One vs. The Iron Clad 5, 5:30 
Dickson, pitcher; and Derrick May. BUllER 1 3 6 14 
Crime Doesn1 Pay vs. Mikey Likes hi, 6:15 outfielder, to Iowa of the American NOTRE DAME 0 0 11 7 
LYONS CT 11 Association. Sent Jeff Robinson, pitcher, to
XAVIER 0 0 5 20 

Ghetto Boys vs. Mean Machine, 4:00 their minor league camp for reassignment. The Real Fab Fh1e va. Box the Corrpass, 4:45 
CINCINNATI REDS-Assigned Ty Grllfin,
SOFTBALL STANDINGS 

Bill's Mom vs. Men Loving Fermented Grain, 5:30 inllelder, to Chattanooga of the SouthernMCC GAMES ALL GAMES We Hate Jimmy Buffet vs. Please don't Hurt Us, 6:15 League.
TEAM W L W L 

LYONS CT12 
MONTREAL EXP05--0ptloned Brian Barnes.
DETHOIT MERCY 3 1 10 1 We're Short, Slow, Whhe vs. Team 465, 4:00 pitcher. to Indianapolis of the American

LOYOLA 1 1 9 7 

Word to your MOiher II vs. A Democrat and 4 Guys Voting, 4:45 Association.
EVANSVILLE 0 0 8 3 2 T~... 2 Scorers, & Hustler vs 4 who Score with Circus Lunch Clown, 5:30NOTHE DAME 0 0 13 12 ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Placed Scott Terry,2 Becken~. 2 Sloths and a Beal<er va. Panic Hardware. 6:15BUllER 0 0 5 13 pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. 

DAYTON 0 2 6 12 
HOCKEY
TENNIS STANDINGS 
National Hockey League
MCC GAMES ALL GAMES TEAM W L W L 

BUFFALO SABRES-Assigned Keith Carney BUllER 2 0 5 4 and Blll Houlder, defensemen; Tom Draper,
BASKETBALL
EVANSVILLE 1 0 3 10 goaltender; and Bob Corkum, forward, to
National Baeketball Aaaociatlon
XAVIER 2 1 8 3 Rochester of the American Hockey League.
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Activated Willie Eric Floyd, offensive lineman; and DonNOTHE DAME 0 0 14 3 NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Sent Jarrod Skalde
Overton. running back. center; Bill Guerin, right wing; and Doug
DETHOIT MERCY 0 0 2 10 Anderson, guard. from the Injured list. 
DAYTON 0 4 Placed Robinson. on PHOENIX CARDINALS-Signed Pat Ellers,
4 8 David center, the safety. 
Dadswell, goalie, to Utica of the American 

injured list. 
Hockey League. Returned Martin Brodeur

PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Signed Stan goalie, to St. Hyacinthe of the Quebec Majo;
BASEBALL Continental Baeketball Aaeociatlon 
SB offensive Junior Hockey League.
TEAM HITTING G AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI AVG BIRMINGHAM BANDITS-Announced that Clayton, lineman. and Man 
24 .276 Jaworski and Stan Smagala, safeties.
BUllER 20 584 101 161 14 0 3 78 Tom Maloney. general manager, has resigned
DETHOIT MERCY 12 389 54 100 17 2 5 44 1 .271 SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Signed Marc NEW YORK RANGERS-Assigned Doug 786 211 109 Weight, Binghamton of
to take a similar position with the Onawa 
XAVIER 25 118 42 2 21 26 .266 Logan, running back; Odessa Turner, wide center, to the 
Lynx of the American Association.
DAYTON 21 565 1t2 149 24 6 15 94 35 .264 Arnerican Hockey League.
receiver; and Manny Hendrix, cornerback.
World Baaketball League
EVANSVILLE 24 722 112 190 38 7 9 101 29 .263 Canadian Football League PHILADELPHIA FL YEAS-Reassigned AI 
NOTHEDAME 18 580 99 146 21 4 12 83 20 .252 DAYTON WINGS-Named Dan Ragland HAMILTON TIGER-CAT~amed John Bonk 
Conroy, Mark Freer and Dale Kushner

assistant coach. Acquired the rights to TEAM PITCHING GG CG IP sv W-L BB so H A ERA Johnnie Hilliard, guard, from the offensive line coach. Signed Rick Henderson, forwards, to the Hershey ol the America~ 
Hockey League. 

6 0 44 101 3.87 offensive lineman, Andrew
DETHOIT MERCY 12 93.0 5-7 77 40 Saskatchewan Storm for Rick Calloway, and Fairbairn, OLYMPICS
NOTHE DAME 18 4 155.3 4 11-7 75 99 164 81 4.69 wide receiver.
forward.
EVANSVILLE 24 192.3 11-13 80 166 104 4.87 World USA BASKETBALL-Named Willis Reed the
4 3 215 League
FOOTBALL
DAYTON 21 6 148.7 1 7-14 106 70 164 89 5.39 BARCELONA DRAGONS-Released Jerry NBA appointment to the USA Basketball 
99 National Football League
BUllER 20 2 140.3 2 6-14 77 76 170 6.35 Games Comminee lor Men.
Evans, tight end.

XAVIER 25 3 192.0 1 5·20 130 116 307 182 8.52 ATLANTA FALCONS-Signed Drew Hill, SOCCERBIRMINGHAM FIRE-Released Keith Friberg,
wide receiver, to a one-year contract. Soccer League
National Profeuional

defensive end, and Barry Johnson, wideSOFTBALL receiver. MILWAUKEE WAVE-Announced the
DENVER BRONCOS-Signed Steve Pelluer, 
TEAM HITTING G AB R H 2B 3B HR RBI SB AVO quarterback, and Robert Awah, tight end. MONTREAL MACHINE-Activated James resignation of Johan Aarnio coach,
DE THOIT MERCY 11 293 87 88 12 4 0 85 25 .300 GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Lewis effective immediately. ' LOYOLA 16 403 66 112 12 3 2 54 28 .278 Billups, Lon, cornerback. from Injured reserve.
cornerback. 
COLLEGE

NOTHEDAME 14 391 42 100 10 3 2 31 7 .256 NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Reieaaed
LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Jim Skow,
EVANSVILLE 21 444 57 102 11 2 1 53 13 .230 Arthur Jimerson, linebacker. EAST TENNESSEE STATE-Promoted Ronny
defensive end.
DAYTON 18 454 55 102 9 2 0 52 18 .225 Feldham, assistant football coach, to
ORLANDO THUNDER-Activated Kevin
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Brian Jones,
BUllER 18 UNAVAILABLE offensive coordinator.
Guidry, cornerback, and Terry Rocker,
linebacker. 
defensive end. FORDHAM-Named Kevin Naughton
G IP so ORLEANS SAINTS-Signed
TEAM PITCHING CG SV W-L BB H A ERA NEW Keith SAN ANTONIO RIDERS-Released Cisco offensive line coach; Bob Baker offensiveDE THOIT MERCY 11 6 72.0 1 10-1 18 50 32 2 0.19 Taylor, safety. and Paul Jenon. offensive 
Richard, running back. backfield coach; Craig Jones graduate
NOTHEDAME 14 6 100.0 1 8·6 27 51 69 19 1.71 

lineman. EVANSVILLE 21 17 118.0 1 8-13 44 42 98 36 2.14 
assistant, and Frank D'Aiessio part-time

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Signed Guy
16 16 103.7 0 9-7 39 74 81 32 2.16 assistant coach. Promoted Steff Kruck,LOYOLA 
Bingham. center; Floyd Dixon, wide receiver;
DAYTON 18 14 116.3 2 6-12 36 29 127 90 2.71 quarterbacks-receivers coach, to offensive BUllER 18 5-1~ coordinator.. SOUTHWESTERN-Announced the ~[O;Mif"HGI:lA::wiiaaii'"';oOl-,:llilJ"--(:rniT!'-"""':fT.)-Irr---!5''?j--""1iTI;T'"-"'i~iA"-\lT'--:rr.fb--PPSSYY--4m:--cir--:rnJr.l"l resignation of Charlie Cowdrey. football RLST 220 24 9524 coach, to become offensive coordinator at
COTH 330 01 3569 HIST 472A 01 3748 
Morningside College. ECON 403 01 3584 HIST 465A 01 3747 R1ST 240 30 9530 ST. LOUIS-Announced the resignation of 473 01 0854 ECON 422 01 0662 liPS 335 01 4138 RLST 240 28 9528 Rich Grawer, men's basketball coach. 475 02 0857 ECON 403T 01 3585 lAW 695 01 1839 RLST 335 56 9556 UCLA-Extended the contract of Billie SOC 400T Ol Moore, women's basketball coach, for three
475 03 0858 EDUC 324 18 8418 lAW 631A 01 1826 3851 
years. 479 01 0863 ENG1 475A 01 3351 lAW 633 01 2994 SOC 400 01 3850 VILLANOVA-Announced that Rollle 231 13 0833 ENGL 384C 01 3164 lAW 695 05 1843 STV 247 01 3290 Massimino, men's basketball coach. has 
231 01 0821 ENGL 417 01 3611 lAW 695 04 1842 STV 310 01 3716 resigned to accept the same position at 231 10 0830 ENGL 495A 01 3630 lAW 695 03 1841 THEO 265 01 0703 LNLV. 
THEO 288 '01 4070 WESTERN NEW MEXICO-Named Dick Drangmeister men's basketball coach. 231 06 0826 ENGL 319A 02 1565 lAW 6318 01 1827 THEO 287 01 0254 
475 04 0123 ENG1 493A 01 3629 lAW 652A 01 0535 NBA STANDINGS 
231 09 0829 ENG1 492C 01 3628 1LRO 451 01 3826 Cl&a•-that will reopen at EASTERN CONFERENCE 
231 07 0827 ENG1 319A 01 1564 lAW 695 02 1840 
4461 02 0879 ENG1 324 01 3592 MARK 476 01 1861 7:00 p.m. 4/2/92 
Atlantic Dlvieion 444L 04 0875 FIN 361 06 1613 ME 469 01 0235 

W L Pet. GB 444L 02 0873 FIN 360 03 1602 ME 448 01 2006 soc 400 01 3850 
x-New York 46 26 .639 446L 04 0881 FIN 361 05 1612 M;;T 231 02 2013 PHIL 230 01 3785 
Boston 43 30 .589 3 1/2 Miami 34 40 .459 13384 01 3520 FIN 476 01 0117 M;;T 231 06 2019 HIST 465A 01 3747 

New Jersey 32 39 .451 13 1/2 452 01 3214 FIN 462 01 1625 M;';T 231 07 2020 HIST 358A 01 3733 
Philadelphia 32 42 .432 15 454 01 3028 FIN 478 01 1630 M;;T 231 01 2012 ENGL 324 01 3592 
Washington 2 3 50 .315 23 1/2 Orlando 17 55 .236 29

310 01 2935 GOVT 474 01 4096 M;;T 231 03 2015 MUS 220 01 0330 
Central OlvielonI 397 01 3307 GOVT 403 01 3670 M;;T 231 05 2018 BA 391 01 0769 

x-Chlcago 59 1 3 .819 -490 03 1067 GOVT 454 01 3673 MUS 223 01 0327 BA 490 04 1068 
x-Cieveland 49 22 .690 9 1/2 391 03 0559 GSC 430 01 3457 MUS 221 01 2646 ENG1 319A 02 1565 
Detroit 42 31 .575 17 1/2 
Indiana 36 38 .486 24490 04 1068 GSC 358 01 3648 MUS 220 01 0330 soc 400T 01 3851 

Aflanta 35 38 .479 24 1/2 391 01 0769 GSC 475 01 3657 MUS 2200 03 2092 PSY 472 01 2364 
Milwaukee 30 42 .417 29 490 05 1069 HIST 326A 01 3723 NSCI 411 03 2165 ENGL 384C 01 3164 
Chari one 29 42 .408 29 11:> 

490 06 1070 HIST 354A 01 3731 PHIL 253 01 3141 
Wedneedey' e Gamea 391 02 0768 HIST 358A 01 3733 PHIL 247 01 3190 Olangea: 
Late Games Not Included Boston 120. Washington 106

344L 02 1085 HIST 444A 01 3741 PHIL 230 01 3785 
Philadelphia 108, Miami 91 344L 04 3899 HIST 440A 01 3739 PHIL 246 01 2198 ENG1 220 01 Dante: The Divine 
Indiana 137. Atlanta 117 3441 01 1084 HIST 308A 01 3722 PHIL 243 01 3786 Comedy; restrictions should 
Charlotte at Chicago, (n) New Jersey at Milwaukee. (n)

442 01 1178 HIST 453A 01 3743 PHIL 235 01 2197 be "Honors Students only; Orlando at Dallas. (n)
119L. 02 3053 HIST 474A 01 3749 PSY 472 01 2364 Permission Required" 
LA Lakers at San Antonio, (n) 

Thursday, April 5, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
Because of the call, Notre Dame advanced to the finals, and the Utes got the honor of playing in the prestigious NIT Consolation Game. 
We, the undersigned elected faculty members of the Academic Council, wish to express our deep disappointment at Fr. Malloy's recent veto of a proposal decisively passed by the Academic Council to restructure itself. The proposal would have modestly augmented the representation of elected faculty and students on the Council and incorporated a committee structure designed to make the deliberations and decisions of the Council more informed. The pros and cons of the proposal were discussed at length over two meetings of the Academic CounciL The discussion culminated in a strong acceptance of the proposal (approximately a 2/3 majority) by a plurality that included faculty, students and administrators. 
While we respectfully acknowledge the President's right of veto, we strongly believe that its use in this case was without any convincing rationale and therefore inappropriate. We feel particular concern over the President's invocation of a proposed "third thing" (a new council having the structure of the Colloquy) as addressing the issues that motivated the proposaL To the extent that it can be envisaged, such an entity would not address the issues of academic policy and decisions, would have a structure inappropriate for deliberating on academic matters, and, in general, would weaken the central academic mission of Notre Dame. We firmly believe that the Academic Council appropriately modified should remain the principal forum for all academic matters. 
We make this statement in the hope that suitable ways will be found for students, faculty and administrators to work together to fulfill Notre Dame's promise as a major university in the Catholic tradition. 
There are times when officials should take action against a player or a coach, but there are others when they should pretend they are NHL referees in the third period and turn their backs to the participants who are upset over what was probably a bad call in the first place. 
WHAT IF YOU DON'T GO INTO THE 
KHOOLOF 

YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 



Team 
continued from page 20 
been too fantastic. 
"I scored 39 and we lost. I scored 38 (against Detroit Mercy) and we lost," Bennett explained. "I would rather only 
Kathleen Riddick, History David Burrell, C. S. C.,Phil{fheology Regina Coil, C. S. J., Theology Kenneth DeBoer, Freshman Year Neil Delaney, Philosophy Morton Fuchs, Biology Maureen Gleason, Library Robert Hayes, Chemistry and Biochemistry 

V. P. Kenney, Physics Suzanne Marilley, Government Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams, Romance Languages Arvind Varma, Chemical Engineering Thomas Werge, English 
~========================1~===========::: 
score 20, have 10 assists, and win the game." 
In addition to its offensive balance, Virginia also used hard-nosed defense, which lim­ited the Irish to 37 percent shooting, to take the NIT crown. 
MacLeod felt that both were keys to the Cavalier win. 


Game 
continued from page 20 
Oliver. "I wanted to end my career on a positive note." 
Notre Dame led for most of the first half, building a nine­point lead on an Ellis 15-footer with 8:45 remaining in the half. 
The Irish trailed 12-9 after a Stith three-pointer with 15:15 remaining in the first half. But led by Bennett and Ellis, they ran off a 16-4 spurt to build their largest lead, 25-16. 
However, with Stith leading the charge, the Cavaliers fought back, putting together a 13-4 run to tie the game by halftime, 29-29. 
Displaying the type of streak shooting with which he has eternally condemned the Irish, Stith scored nine of his team's 13 points during the run to pull Virginia back into the game. 
With Virginia still trailing 29­24 with 1:28 left in the half, Stith went to work in earnest, 
"They played excellent de­fense. They have the quickness to shut people down," MacLeod said. "Their reserves caused a lot of problems for us." 
In the end, it was those re­serves and the entire Virginia team that was able to outdo an extraordinary individual per­formance by Elmer Bennett. 
scoring five in a row to tie the game. 
After Jon Ross' third foul, Stith hit one of two free throws. A Bennett turnover enabled Stith to hit a baseline jumper, cutting the Irish lead to two. He then stole and dunked with 6.2 seconds remaining in the half to tie the game going into the locker room. 
NOTES-Oliver was joined on the NIT all-tournament team by Bennett, Ellis, Florida's Stacey Poole and Utah's Jimmy Soto. Stith was named the NIT's Most Valuable Player... Despite the loss, Notre Dame's run through the tournament enabled coach John MacLeod to set a record for most victories ever by an Irish first-year coach with 18 ... Notre Dame finished at 18­
15. Virginia finished 20­13 ... The Irish are now 0-3 in NIT championship games. They fell to Virginia Tech in overtime, 92-91, back in 1973, and lost to Michigan, 83-63, in 1984 ... This was Notre Dame's first-ever game played in April. 
NHL players vote to strike 
TORONTO (AP) -The dark­gaining agreement. est day in the NHL could turn At a news conference into its longest year. crowded with players and re­
That's the prospect facing the porters, Goodenow revealed 
league in the wake of that the vote had been an over­Wednesday's players strike that whelming 560-4. threatened not only the Stanley "The results prove the play­Cup playoffs, but the beginning ers' disatisfaction with the of next season as well. owners' fmal offer," Goodenow 
Wednesday's walkout, the said. "A vote to reject was a first league-wide strike in the vote to strike by 3 p.m. April 1, 75-year history of the NHL, 1992." came after the players resound­The walkout was aimed ingly rejected the owners' last squarely at the owners' wallets. offer for a new collective bar-They make the biggest chunk of ... 
their income from the playoffs;
r­
,..-------------------------, the players, with 
average 



p;~yeli;e~t~A 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stufflng, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North {219)277-1291 
L,.;;,S.;;,ou.;.;.;,;th;;;;.;;Be;,;;,;;n;;.;d;.;,,..;;IN;;.;..4_6_6..;3;..7;....._____P_h_o_n_e_a_n_s_w_e_r_e_d_2_4_hrs_._. heading into playoffs?" said 
salaries of about $375,000, get virtually nothing. 
Major league baseball and the NFL have had player strikes, but never before has a walkout come so close to the time when a pro sport was about to decide its champion. 
"I think what's probably got a lot of people surprised; how can these athletes who played for championships go out at this point and time of the season, 
"THERE'S NO RESISTING 'THE COMMITMENTS:.. AFilM WITH ASOUND SO POTENT IT COUlD PROBABlY LIBERATE 
THE WORlD:' 
-Kennelh Turon, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
-Jack Malhews, NEWSDAY 

"****" 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI & SAT 7:15, 9:45 
Wayne Gretzky, the league's all­time scoring leader and hockey's best-known player. "The vote was pretty unanimous." 
Gretzky, whose Los Angeles Kings had clinched a playoff berth, said he expected the strike to last either "two or three days or we're going to go until November or December." 
Not long after the players went on strike, there seemed to be hope for a quick settlement when some members of the owners' committee flew into Toronto to meet with players.' 
But, as it turned out, no nego­tiations took place at the meet­ings -only a clarification of positions, according to Ziegler. 
The strike not only managed to cancel three games on Wednesday night, but cast a pall over the NHL at a time when the league was preparing for the most glamorous part of the season. 
There are 27 regular-season games left before the scheduled start of the Stanley Cup playoffs on Wednesday. 
Ziegler wasn't certain how long the strike would have to go before the playoffs had to be cancelled. 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, Arpil 2,1992 
''Magnificent Seven'' set to join men's soccer 
Special to The Observer 
Parade magazine's top-rated forward and member of the 
U.S. Under-20 national team, Bill Lanza has signed a letter o intent to play soccer for Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
"Bill is a creative goal scorer who is extremely opportunis­tic," says coach Mike Berticelli. "He will contribute to our team's ability to be more dan­gerous in the attacking third. He will make a major impact as a freshman, and we consider him to be one of the top for­wards coming out of high school this year." 
Lanza was one of th emost highly-recruited preps in the nation, after a junior year in which he earned Most Valuable Player honors in Virginia's Commonwealth District. 
Shawn Bryden, a native of Sugar Land, Texas, has also signed a letter of intent with Notre Dame. One of the top midfielder according to Parade magazine, Bryden was an im~ pact player for the Under-17 Youth national team that qualified for the Youth World Cup. 
"Shawn is a big, strong de­fensive midfielder," Berticelli says. "He's expected to replace graduating senior Kenyon Meyer." 
Midfielder Eric Ferguson, a member of the Under-20 Olypic Development pool, also signed a letter intent to enroll at Notre Dame. "Eric is an extremely skillful and imaginative player," commented Berticelli. "He has the ability to control the tempo of the game." 
The Boston Globe's player of the year last year, Josh 

Landman will attend Notre Dame next year and play for the Irish men' soccer team. Landman, from Beverly, Mass., earned All-New England honors as the team's top scorer in his junior year. He was the only underclassman selected for those honors. 
"Josh is an attacking mid­fielder with outstanding physi­cal attributes," Berticelli says. "He has excellent technique and possesses a very powerful shot." 
Joining Landman on the squad will be Chris Concannon, a midfielder/forward from Austin, Texas. Concannon was a member of several South Texas select teams and currently plays for the Austin Flyers club team. "Chris has exceptional quick and he's a very skilled, disciplined player," Berticelli says. 
Goalkeepers Doug Sidney, from Burnsville, Minnesota, and Patrick Polking, from Charlotte, North Carolina, will also enroll at Notre Dame and play for the Irish. Sidney was an all-state goalie and he helped lead his team to the state semifinals. A three-year starter, Polking posted 24 shutouts in his sophomore and junior campaigns, posting a goals against average of 0.78 in the latter. Both are expected to challenge MCC freshman of the year Bert Bader. 





"The Democratic Party and the Politics of Abortion" 

A Lecture by 
Governor 

Democrat, Pennsylvania 
Law School Court Room Thursday, April 2, 4 pm 
Center for Civil and Human Rights • White Center on Law and Government • Student Government • Student Union Board 
---------·~------­
---------~~------------·----------------------------~~--------~~--..--------------~~----.-, 
Thursday, Ap!il 2, 1992 The Observer 
Women's tennis to play Texas and A&M 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will get away from the cold weather for a few days as they head south to face Texas and Texas A&M. 
After a tough weekend that included wins over Boston College and 17th-ranked Kansas, the Irish are ready for the competition they will face against Texas this afternoon. 
The Longhorns are currently ranked 11th, although they are expected to jump as many as seven notches when next week's poll is released. Last season. the Irish dropped a 7-2 decision to Texas during a spring break trip San Diego. 
"We had a tight match against them last year on our spring break trip and this will be another tough one, especially outdoors," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
Because of the weather con­ditions here, the team hasn't been able to practice much out­doors and that will be a factor against Texas and Texas A&M. 
"This is the toughest part of our season, going from indoors to outdoors," Louderback ex­plained. "Outdoors you have to start worrying about the sun and the wind and all the ele­ments and that makes a big, big difference. It usually takes about two weeks to get used to playing outdoors." 
They won't have that much 

Whenthe Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
(219) 239-6385 

time to make the adjustment, however, with two tough matches staring them in the face. 
After today's match against Texas, the Irish travel to San Antonio to face Texas A&M. Although they are not having the type of season they are used to, the Aggies will be ready to play against the Irish. 
"A&M is a little down this year," Louderback commented. "They're perennially a top 20 team, but they've had some in­juries. It will still be a very tough match, though." 
The Irish return to the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Tuesday for their final home meet of the season against Western Michigan. 
"MY GUMS TURNED KIND OF 
WHITE, BUBBLY 
AND SORE, AND SOMETIMES TtfE SKIN 
f'EELS OFF 
AND BlEEDS:l 
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS. 
DON-JSE ~F 01! CHfWIN("_, ~ry....,r..:;:.:.. 
rand Opening April 3rd I 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIAliZE IN: 
Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes 
Free Membership 
State Road 23 & Ironwood 
Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 


(219) 273-9545 




You deserve better 
ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB'S 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
1&1 ALUMNI 
SENIOR 







~CLUB 

Every Friday 12-2 

ID required 
page 17 

SPORTSBRIEFS 
-

.· •ccepted J.n writing dnting business . Friday atth~Qbf;eiTet ptllee Q"fl the t:hird · sublllit your name. brief. telephone 
brief:is to run. 
We urgently need volunteers and donations. 
Please call your Red Cross 



+
American 
chapter today. 
Help the people who help Red Cross 
people. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY 


DOODLE! 

SUNDRY, RPRIL 26 7::50 PM MORRIS CIUIC AUDITORIUM 
All SEATS RESEAUED: SI 9.50 AUAilRBLE AT THE AUDITORIUM BOH OFFICE, TRACKS,ORBIT RECORDS, AND WORLD RECORDS 
CHRRGE: 284-9190 
,-------------------------------------~------~---------.. 
The Observer 
page 18 

-Track teams travel to Indy for lntercollegiates 
Men optimistic about chances at Indianapolis 
By AlAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
So far this outdoor season, the men's track team has had a simple solution to dealing with South Bend's unpredictable spring weather: head south. Meets held in Florida, Alabama, and North Carolina have kept the Irish athletes warm while Notre Dame remained cold and wet. 
This weekend, however, that promises to change, as 29 members of the Irish squad venture only as far south as Indianapolis to compete in the 



Brian Peppard 
Indiana Intercollegiates. Only two team members will escape Indiana weather by traveling to Austin, TX, and the Texas Relays. 
Brian Peppard, and Irish co­captain competing in the 800 meters, feels optimistic about his chances at this week's meet in Indy. 
"I'd like to place first in my event," he said. "I've already finished first at the indoor ver­sion of the meet." 
Head coach Joe Plane also holds lofty goals for the team. 
"Ideally," he commented, "we'd like to see every athlete set a personal best." 
Two athletes coming off outdoor season bests-Ryan Mihalko and Greg Herman-will compete at the Texas relays this weekend. Mihalko's javelin throw of 207 feet 9 inches, and Herman's 6 foot 9 3/4 inch high jump have not been bested yet this season. 


•' 
Women hope weather is good 


By JOSEF EVANS 
Sports Writer 
If it's true that there's no place like home, the Irish women's track team will get their best chance to show it this weekend, as they will be com­peting at the Indianapolis Intercollegiate meet. This is the closest the women will get to South Bend during their out­door season. 
This meet will also mark the first time the Irish have sent a full squad to compete outdoors. However, getting ready for the outdoor competition has been a problem, with the cold and mis­erable South Bend weather wreaking havoc on the women's practices. 


Karen Harris, the leading woman for Notre Dame in the shot put and discus, expressed concern over the lack of quality practice time. 
"It's been bad. In the shot and discus, you really need to get a full throw in, and that's hard to do when it's so wet." 
The competition will be strong, as the women will be up against state rivals such as Ball State and Indiana State. Leading the way, though, will be last year's winner, Indiana. 
"They have a girl who holds 
MONDAY i\MI TUESDAY APRIL 13 AlW 14 
TRENT 

ARTERBERRY 

8:10p.m. 
Washington Hall 
Tirkets: $1\--\otrc Dame ~md Saint \ la[\·'s Student' $1 0-Gcncral .-\dmission $5-Childrcn (I Zand under) Group rates <ll'aihlblc. LaFortune Center Box Ofticc 
!\lime Trent Arterberry moves through a series of contemporary scene> with a unique athletic grace and presence. His show range> from hilariom descriptive mime to interpretive dance and includes improvisational sketches with audience participation. Arterhcrry hegan stlllh'ing mime in the '70s with such masters as i\larcel i\larceau. 
•
•
•
• 

the discus record, and who will be throwing about 50 in the shot. There isn't anybody in her class (in the weight events)." commented Harris. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, will be looking to improve on a sixth-place finish which was 163 points behind IU last year. 
As competition draws closer and closer, Harris, for one, admits she has more than just track on her mind. 
''I've got a BCA exam, and that's really been a concern." 
Hopefully, Harris and the rest of the team can put everything to the side for a fe\'1 moments this weekend, and come through with a good perfor­mance. 
• 
• 
•
•
• 
• ~~~~r·• 
•
• 
: ~~"[?';~YJ.~..­•
• 
•....'Rlll-­•
• 
Thursday, April 2, 1992 

Correction: 
In Tuesday's Observer, a Saint Mary's tennis story was run that had previously appeared The Observe~ The article was supposed to be a preview for a tennis match against UIC. The Observer regrets the error. 
WE'RE PUTnNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 
91-92 MAINSTAGE SEASON 
NOTRE DAME CoMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 

THURSDAY, APRil 9 8:10PM FRIDAY, APRIL 10 8:10PM SAT~IRDAY, APRIL II 8:10PM SUNDAY, APRIL 12 3:10PM 
.., WASHINGTON HALL 
RmRvED SEATs $7, 
T!L"KI:T~ Al\1. AVMI.ARI.I: AT ri!C DOll!\ ClR IN M1Vr\NL"f tiT THr LriFLlRTllNl STliDfNT LJ:NHI\ 
TicKET ClrFICL MASHJ\(ARP AND ViSA L)I\DfH~ (MI. 239-8Wl STUIJlNTS AND ~EN lOR CITJZJ:N DI~(L)lJNTS rillE ,IVAJI.,\RI.E FL1Jl IVEDNlSDAY. THURSDIIY liND 
SUNP.-IY I'J:JlJ'l)Jl,\1.-\NlfS. 



Department of Marketing and Center for Social Concerns 
presents 



John Shea 
speaking on "Entrepreneurial Public Service" 
Mr. Shea, a 1985 graduate of Notre Dame, is currently a first year MBA student at Harvard Business School. At Harvard, he is president of the Public ManagementCiub. Formerly, he was an employee of the United Way in several cities and the executive director of D.C. Cares in Washington D.C. 
Hayes-Healey Auditorium 7:30pm on Thursday, April 2 

a little... 
Warehouse 
-&

The Spaghetti Warehouse 501 N. Niles Downtown South Bend 
------------------------------------~--------------------------­



Today 
Thursday, April 2, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
NOW, :I WANT G£T ouT THE:R£ AND THINI<1 THINK1 THINK! 
~--.-....... 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1\\\S ARTICLf ~~S 11-I!I.T B'\ P...'* S\'1(, MC'5\ CI-'1\.DR£.N ~lit W~TC\.\E\) 5POO HOURS OF T'J-A QIJOOU, OF 1\\EIR 
r---------'t-11>.1(\'NG 1..\'JES! 
THE FAR SIDE 
E 
DAGZI MTOFC R\J 8\<;QW 
I l-\~'lW1 't-11\KWtD 1\-\f>..\ t-\\JC\-1~ T\-\1~1( or M.L 1\.1.~ GR'Cf..T S\iO'riS l''IE. MISSED.' TilE. Bt.EN 
OCPRI\It.\) OF CIJL\VRI\L REFi:.'K'C.tK£S! '1.'1'11 \GNOR/>.~ 
CF COVNT\..£SS t\M~Z.\NG 
\'R()\)VC\S ·' 

1-\\JR~'I!  \I= I ~1>-\CI-\ I'J \JNl\l  
BEDTII'II'C.,  r Ct>-~ G£T IN A  
rt:W I'R£CIC\JS E.XTRA 1-\().)~S  
fiNO CATC.\-\  VI' A_  BIT!  
© Edward Julius  
ACROSS  55  Playwright 0' Casey  18 South American  
56 Like  an old  capital (2 wds.)  
1 Neutered  woman  23 "Take  - at  it"  
7 Hunting expedition 58 "Oh my gosh!"  25 LSAT and GMAT  
13 Elaborately  60 ---­ rule  28 Weird  
JOHN MONKS  decorated 14 Shaded walk.  61 Janitor (2 wds.) 64 Scholarly  30 Porterhouse, e.g. 33 Starr of music  
16 Handyman (hyph .)  65 Bullfighter  35 Han and Capri  
19 New Zealand  66 Open or Street  37 Famous vocalist  
muttonbird  67 High suit  (2 wds.)  
20 Katmandu's country  39 Volume  
21 These:  Sp.  DOWN  40 Those who make  
22 Chemical  substance  amends  for  
24 Put in fresh soil  1 Brief stay  41  Attendants  to  an  
26 Satisfy completely  2 Rolling grassland  important person  
27 Dishwasher cycle  3 Antiquated  42 Fine line on some  
29 Coolidge's VP  4 Wild  ox  of Asia  letters  
31  Part of MPH  5 Prep school  near  44 Gave medical  care  
32 Type of fisherman  London  to  
34 Most piquant  6 Postpone  45  Expungement  
36 Make  ---­ in (tear) 7 More yellow or  46 Energetic, hard­ 
38 Map abbreviations  sickly looking  working people  
39 Military rifles  8 Height abbreviation 49  D.E.  Indies  measure  
43 Used sodium  9 Taxi  passenger  52 Pungs  
chloride  10 Collect together  54 Cults  
47 American Indian  11 Bureaucratic delay  57 Assam silkworm  
48-on  (urged)  (2wds.)  59 Organ part  
50 Irish county  12  Forms thoughts  62 Bank equipment  
51 Horse disease  15 State positively  (abbr.)  
53 Frightful giants  17  Imitated  63  - pro nobis  

LECTURES Thursday 
4 p.m. Lecture Series in the History and Traditions of Saint Mary's College -Rediscovering our Roots. "A Sense of Tradition: Saint Mary's Then and Now," Sister Elena Malits. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. 
"Oh, this is wonderful, Mr. Gruenteld-Organic chemists at parties 
4:15 p.m. History and Philosophy of Science Colloquium:
I've only seen it a couple of times. You have corneal 
"Yellow Fever and the South, 1878-1905," Dr. Margaret
corruption.... Evil eye, Mr. Gruenfeld, evil eye." 
Humphreys, School of Public Health, Harvard University. Room 131, Decio Hall. 
CAMPUS

Notre Dame 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "China's Industrial Structure and Its Reform." Yi-Kang Shen. School of Economic Management,
Thursday 

Shanghai University of Technology, Shanghai, China. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
7:30 p.m. "The Pro-Life Situation in the '92 Election Year."
Stir Fry· Beef and Father Charles Fiori. Sorin Room, 1st floor of LaFortune. 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Program in Public Service Third Annual Vegetables 
7:30 p.m. Discussion: "Life After Medical School." Margaret Policy Colloquium: "Recovering the Dream: Is AffirmativeHomestyle Chicken Humphries, M.D. (ND class of '76). 184 Nieuwland Science 
Action an Appropriate Policy for the 1990's" Panel
Sandwich Hall. 
Discussion. Galvin Life Science Center Auditorium. 
Rotini with Spring Vegetables 
Sophomore Lt.terary rA}{TASIA 
Thursday, April 2~esti,va,[ 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
1993 Committee Applications IVDSY 
Due April 10 Friday, April 3 Saturday, April 4 
8 PM & 10:30 PM 
,\pplications available from Barb at the Student Cushing Auditorium 
Admission 1s $2_ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Government Office 



Sports 
page 20 Thursday, April 2, 1992 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
Memories of NCAA basketball and the referees 
NEW YOHK -In the past few weeks, college basketball has provided us with quite a few unforgettable moments. 
Whether you loved it or not, not many peopiP will soon forget Christian Laettner's buzzer beater to beat

--Kentucky and give Duke its fifth straight trip to the Final Four. Nor will a lot of people forget Georgia Tech"s 0.8 seeond shocker in the second round, or Cincinnati's unlikely march to its first Final Four in 29 years, or UTEP's upset of Kansas or ... The officiating. In the past month college basketball officials have overstepped their bounds. They have directly influenced the outcomes of crucial games. It started on March 7, when Irish coach .John MacLeod was slapped with a questionable technical for arguing an obvious bad call in the closing seconds of the DePaul game. Stephen Howard proceeded to hit one of two free throws, but DePaul retained possession and went on to a 66-65 win. This one technkal could well have kept the Irish out of the NCAA tournament. On two othPr occasions, these in the post-season, officials ruined what had been great rollege basketball games. In an Fast Regional SPmifinal game Massachusetts had cut a 21-point Kentucky lead to two, 70-68, with 6:14 left in the game. After the Wildcats grabbed an offensive board, UMass coach .John Calipari argued that Kentucky should have been whistled for a foul. and stepped out of the coaching box while doing so. Something that almost every coach does as often as LaPhonso Ellis rejects a shot. However, this time, in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA tourney, the referee thought it would be appropriate to slap Calipari with aT. Richie Farmer hit both shots and Deroo Feldhaus scored on Kentucky's scored on Kentucky's ensuing possession-?4-68. The Minutemen did not score again until the 2:49 mark. Maybe UMass would have lost by 10 without the technical. but maybe the Minutemen would have eventually taken the lead. No one will ever know because John Calipari committed the unforgivable sin of stepping beyond the bounds of the coaching box. Finally, in Monday's NIT semifinal, Utah coach Rick Majerus was hit with a technical with 9. 9 seconds remaining after boisterously arguing a marginal call at best against Paul Aefeaki. Though Majerus admitted that he deserved the T, I still do not think it should have been called at that juncture of the game. 
see HOOPS/page 15 

INSIDE SPORTS 

IITrack teams head to Indy 
see page 18 
•sailing club places fifth 
see page 13 

• 
Irish sign'Magnificent Seven' see page 16 


•women's 
tennis goes to Texas 


see page 17 

•NHL goes on strike 
see page 15 



Irish lose in Final 81-76 
Dreams fall Cavs win short in final as a team 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Associate Sports Editor Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-Last night in NEW YORK-Last night,Madison Square Garden, an the Virginia Cavaliers arena built on heroes, showed why basketball is a individual heroics were not team sport.enough. Virginia did not tear upDespite a career-high 39 Notre Damp's man-to-man 
points fr·om senior Elmer defense, but it was able to Bennett, Notre Dame fell to work the ball and find goodVirginia, 81-76 in overtime. shots. 
With four seniors playing By doing so, the Cavaliers their last game in Irish captured their second NIT uniforms, Notre Dame battled title, 81-76 in overtime, over 
back from a 11-point deficit the Irish. with 10 minutes remaining to "People can say whatever force overtime with the they want (about the NIT),Cavaliers. but they should just look at 
Bennett's 23-foot three­the emotion our kids showed 
pointer-hit while leaning on out there (on the court)."Virginia's Cory Virginia coach Jeff Jones Alexander-tied the game at said. "We feel good about 
66. His improbable jumper 
what we accomplished."also capped a second half that Virginia's patience resulted saw a ballgame that was tied 
in a well-balanced scoring at halftime move decisively in attack, as four Cavaliers Virginia's favor, and then back 
finished in double figures. 
to a tie as time expired. 

"We've been at our best The three, which fell when we've had balanced through the net with 2. 8 scoring," Jones commented. 
seconds remaining, gave 
"We knew Bryant (Stith)Virginia players reason to 
would not get anything easy

believe that leprechauns were 
and we would be force to loose in New York. find the open man. "I was standing right behind "Fortunately, we were able him," said Virginia senior to do so." Anthony Oliver. "He was Though everyoneleaning over Cory when he 
contributed, Stith, who led released. And as soon as it 
the Cavaliers with 24 points 

went in, I said, 'Oh, my God, 
and eight rebounds and was it's the luck of the Irish 
named tournament MVP,
again." 
was the key to the game. 

But Notre Dame's luck had 
"I hope I never have to see almost run out. Virginia came 
Stith again," Irish coach 

out of the blocks quickly in John MacLeod commented. 
overtime, building a 69-66 
"We did everything we could lead, hitting three of four foul 
to try to stop him, hut he is a 

shots in the extra period's 
tremendous player."opening one-and-a-half "I relied a lot on myminutes. 
teammates. They stepped up

But Virginia gave back those 
and hit the open shots," Stith points on two fouls in the next 
explained. "But come crunch 

minute, as Bennett and 
time, I was looking for the LaPhonso Ellis combined to go 
basketball." 

three-for-four from the line there. 39 to carry them. Ellis added The Notre Dame offense,
The Cavaliers used a to Notre Dame's punch with balanced scoring attack to 20 points and 11 rebounds, 
themselves to tie the score at on the other hand, was 
69. 
anything but balanced, as

frustrate the Irish, as but senior guard Daimon
Virginia gained an Elmer Bennett scored 39 of
Alexander and Oliver added Sweet was shut down all night
advantage when Bryant Stith, his team's 76 points. 
who finished with a team-high 21 and 18 points, by Oliver, who was named to "Elmer Bennett would not
respectively. the all-tournament team. free throws on Keith Tower's But Notre Dame, which "These last few days have 
24 points, canned three more let his team lose," said 
Jones. "He was fantastic."

reached the NIT final four meant so much to me," said
fourth and fifth fouls. The However, he may have Cavaliers did not falter again, dud to the same type of see GAME/page 15 
as they pulled away from balance, relied on Bennett's see TEAM /page 15 
Baseball to play first home game tonight 
By JENNY MARTEN be on the mound for the Crusaders doubles and homeruns this year while 
Associate Sports Editor when they face the Irish this afternoon. Garcia (.324, 9 HBis) is tied for the team 
Spillers (5-2) has a 4.10 ERA and 21 lead in stolen bases with three. 
It's about time. strikeouts with appearances in five Joe Luce, Marc Waite, and Jeff Snyder 
The Notre Dame baseball team (11-7) games. Thompson (3-1) has seen time are the RBI producers for the team as 
hosts Valparaiso (4-10) in a double­on the hill in six contests while amass­well as the workhorses of the team with 
header tonight to open the home season ing a 9.00 ERA and notching 17 strike­all three having started every game so 
at Coveleski Regional Stadium. The outs. far for the Crusaders. Luce (.298), Waite 
Irish played 18 games in five different The probable Irish starting pitchers (.293), and Snyder (.240) contributed 
states in 31 days before the home for the doubleheader are junior AI 14, 12, and 12 HB!s respectively. 
opener tonight. Walania and freshman Craig Allen. The probable starters for the Irish are 
Ranked at 15 in the current Baseball Walania (2-2, 3.67, 1 save) was the senior Joe Binkiewicz (1 B), sophomore America poll, the Irish are coming off a Midwestern Collegiate Conference Greg Layson or freshman Robby Birk tough three-game series against Miami player of the week last week after his (28), senior Craig Counsell, and senior in which Notre Dame won a game, lost performance against the Hurricanes. Cory Mee (3Bl in the infield. In the out­a game, and took the third into extra Allen has made appearances in five field, Notre Dame will be represented innings. games this year including his only start by either junior Dan Bautch or 
The Crusaders are coming off a split of the year Navy in the Service freshman Paul Failla in center, doubleheader with Eastern Illinois. In Academies Classic earlier in the season. freshman Steve Verduzco in left, and the first game, Valparaiso pitcher Eric Walania and Allen will have to be on junior Eric Danapilis in right. Either Spillers went seven innings to capture the lookout for Valparaiso heavy hitters, freshman Craig DeSensi or junior Pat the win while in the second game Jack Holley, Mike Parker, and Mike Leahy will be the designated hitter pitcher Steve Thompson only lasted 3 Garcia. Parker has the second highest while either freshman Bob Lisanti or 1/3 innings. batting average on the team at .357. sophomore Matt Haas will be behind 
Spillers and Thompson will probably Holley (.326, 6 RBis) has hit a pair of the plate. 










