The Observer 

VOL. XXXiX. NO. 39 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1992 
· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Roemer says changes in Congress needed to bring change to America 
By CORA SANDBERG 
higher education bill that would News Writer extend higher education to 1.4 million students. 
Representative Tim Roemer said that he is working toward He also said he advocates his a change in Congress in order Marshall Plan for the Midwest to bring about change in Amer­that "will give people in our ~ca in his speech last night at middle class good wages to live Saint Mary's. on so that they can spend time with their families." 
Roemer, the Democratic congressman running for Indi­Roemer ended his lecture ana's third district, said he saying, "As the world is 
wants to cut down the bureau­searching for democracy, as the cracy in Congress. world is trying to be more free,
Tim Roemer 
and more just and putting 
"I am a co-sponsor of a bill number of committees on which emphasis on human rights, we, that will turn Congress upside congressmen can serve. now in 1992, are reluctant to and, hopefully, right side up," tackle some of these problems. he said. Roemer said he has shown his We need some leadership from 
support for a balanced budget our government to make some 
Roemer said that he has been bill by only spending seventy­of these tough decisions to get a co-sponsor of a bipartisan bill eight percent of his own budget. this country moving in the right in favor of cutting staff in direction again." Congress, cutting the number of 
As a member of the Education committees and cutting the and Labor Committee, Roemer Saint Mary's College spon­added that he is in favor of a sored Roemer's lecture. 
Carrara implements platform goals at SMC 
Students to spend break 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH want students to have an iden­Women's Colleges to which News Writer tity without the Notre Dame Saint Mary's will invite over 80 
helping hurricane victims 
stigma attached." women's colleges to attend. By THERESA ALEMAN south of Miami at the
Since April, Saint Mary's Stu­Carrara feels that her admin­Student government is also dent Government President istration has met these goals. researching the $20 student 
News Writer Madonna Youth Center. Christina Carrara has been "There is a sense of students activity fee which all students 
Domino's Pizza will finan­working to implement the goals feeling pride about going to an pay at the beginning of the year. 
Notre Dame is fortunate cially sponsor the group of she set forth in her platform, all-women's institution," she According to Carrara, the fee is 
to be able to offer energy fourteen with a donation with time being the only con­said. "There is a pride in the used by student government, 
and effort to the victims of estimated to be over $1000. straint that has kept her from College." residence halls, class councils, 
Hurricane Andrew, said The group of fifty with Tyler Farmer, a Morrissey the esc is being sponsored 
fulfilling all of her goals, she She added that communica­and all clubs and organizations. said. tion between the administration "We've researched other col­
sophomore and student se­by the ND Hall President's Carrara, along with Vice and students is improving. She leges of our size and they all 
nator who helped organize Council (HPC) with a dona­President of Academic Affairs indicated that President William pay a higher activity fee," Car­
a group of fourteen stu­tion of $5000. Keenan Hall Mary Beth Wilkinson and Vice Hickey addressed the Board of rara said. "This hinders our 
dents to spend fall break on donated $350 and the New President of Student Activities Governance at their last ability to increase social activity 
relief efforts in Miami. Jersey Alumni Association Julie McCormick, campaigned meeting for the first time that on campus because we can't 
donated $250. Each of the on the platform for "Women she can remember. pull in top-notch speakers and 
A total of sixty-four ND students will pay $40 to Making Changes for Saint The administration is willing entertainment." 
and SMC students will help cover food costs. Mary's College." to listen to student input, Car­"This makes people feel they 
spend their fall break in Anthony Travel helped According to Carrara, the rara said. have to go to Notre Dame [for 
Miami "doing light Arsenault along with John main thrust of the platform set "They [administration] are social activities] where they 
construction and cleaning and Kathleen Mackie to up," said Mike Arsenault, organize the trip free of
forth in the candidates' debate seeing that it is more and more have more resources," she was to increase the visibility of important to gain the input of continued. 
who helped organize a charge. student government, to improve the student body on the issues Carrara indicated that the 
group of fifty students through NO's Center for "A lot of time and effortthe the communication between that affect them," she said. only constraint that student the students and faculty, and to Carrara also said that they government has encountered in 
Social Concerns (CSC) and have gone into the planning Habitat for Humanity. of this trip and we wouldn't
elect, not appoint, students to are working on a brochure that fulfilling its goals is time. the academic council. will detail the branches, func­"It's a long process [to change 
The two groups will travel be able to do this without "The theme of our platform tions and roles of student gov­something] and you have to do 
to Miami this weekend by HPC," Arsenault said. "The was to rebuild the pride in Saint ernment, as well as a confer­a lot of research to back up 
bus and van and will spend students came together to Mary's," Carrara said. "We ence for the Student Alliance of 
the week about fifteen miles help out." 
see GOALS/page 4 
Speaker discusses problems subordinated people face 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR powerful people make their Saint Mary's Editor wills known," Fails continued, using rape to illustrate her 
The struggle in dominant and point. Take the rapist who says subordinate relationships is a to a victim, "Cooperate or I will problem of conformity and de­kill you. Afterwards I will stalk humanization, leaving the un­your daughter." derdog few options, according Fails said the victim's sub­to Eleanor Fails of Duquesne mission is not a sign of accep­University. tance but lack of choices. The 
In the noon lecture, "I Know underdog's choices are to call I've Been Liberated, How Come the dominator's bluff and risk I Don't Feel Free?" at Saint the consequences or to use a Mary's, Fails drew examples form of accommodation. Sub­from the newspaper and the ordinates most often choose the movie, "Thelma and Louise," to latter. emphasize her point. Liberation and freedom can­
Subordinate people are the not be used interchangeably, often exploited, victimized and Fails added. Liberation is discriminated against, Fails "concerned with restoring said. She pointed out how rights lost or abused and once rarely the victim wins and gets people are liberated, what they to "unfurl the banner of tri­do with it determines whether umph," since the dominant they will be free," she said. ones call the shots. Fails said the movie "Thelma 
The Observer/ Sue Kehias 
Power is something the pow­and Louise" fascinated her, and 
Eleanor Fails of Duquesne University speaks on the struggles in dominant and subordinate relationships in a 
erless allow the powerful to ex­added that she was both pro­
lecture at Saint Mary's yesterday. 
ercise, Fails added. "Truly see SPEAKER/page 4 


page 2 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Leather belts, taxes would Clinton bring 

How has life been treating you at U of I since the summer, Mike? 
"Everyone's been asking me since I've been back at school what it was like to live in Arkansas for a summer and what I think of Bill Clinton." 
And do they believe you Saint Mary's Editor when you tell them? 
"No. Before my family moved to Arkansas 
from Chicago I wouldn't have known anything. 
Seeing first-hand what little he's done for a 
single state has clued me in on the disaster the 
entire country could face." 
"My first impressions of the state were that it's 
a little backward. I asked where the pop was at 
the supermarket once and was directed to the 
plumbing section." 
Yes, the dialect certainly is an obstacle. 
"And the clothes down there! Townie attire is straight out of John Wayne movies. And you're 'ust not cool unless you wear a thick leather belt with a silver buckle the size of a hubcap and your name branded in block letters on the back. This is for both men and women." 
Admit it, deep down you've been wanting to get one of those, haven't you? 
"Hey, now. No one's gonna be looking at my butt to call me by name. Speaking of backsides, I still can't believe your governor is running for president. Does he really think he can tax and spend us out of this slump? The man is not a wizard. Taxing the upper class isn't going to work, either. You know who's going to end up paying?" 
Who? 
"You and me-the middle class. Whether Clinton will admit it or not, he'll be at the reigns with us in the yoke begging for mercy. Our paychecks will be sucked dry." 
They already were this summer. 
"Yeah, it was impossible to find a job in Arkansas. It took me a month to land a minimum-wage job that didn't involve shoveling dead vermin or telephone solicitation. Even then, the place I ended up didn't need me...l was basically an interpreter so they could place orders in Chicago. People at the University o Illinois just don't believe Bill is an incompetent. Who ever goes to Arkansas to find out? I can't imagine what Arkansas must've been like 12 years ago." 
Well, taxes were lower. 
"The traditional family values thing really gets me. Maybe Gennifer can tell us a little about that. Arkansas ranked second in teenage pregnancies in 1988 and comes out third in 1990 in both marriage and divorce rates. Who's going to get up on a soapbox and preach, 'Parents, love your children, teach them values?' and who is Clinton to mandate that attitude?" 
I agree. 
"We all want to see a change. But is Clinton's change going to be a good one? I don't think so." 
After three months in Arkansas, you're that convinced of it. Amazing. 
"If Clinton is elected and continues his brilliant acts of change as evidenced in Arkansas, this country is destined for badness. We can expect higher taxes, low job opportunities, more empty rhetoric... " 
...and branded leather belts for all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff  
News  Production  
Julie Barrett  Kathy Fong  
Bevin Kovalik  Jeanie Blasi  
Sports  Graphics  
Jon Jenson  Chris Weirup  
Systems  Accent  
Matt Carbone  Laurie Sessa  
Chris Caracciolo  Amy Hardgrove  
Lynn Bauwens  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Anna Marie Tabor 
.,: FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
...:::.:.-. :::.. i:~ t~ ~;:;:;;;;; ~;:;: f ~ ~~ ~.=:r r ~: ,:_;_..'.~,:_;,::_:,:..:,:_;,:,;,:,;,:,~,:,;,::,'_,':·.:_,'.,;.,:_,~:'_,~.''.'~·.· _.= =.','_.'_,'.,. _,: ·_: :_,.._: =.•.-:',~:'.'.·':·.~..·_:,~.'..·.•·'._,~:'_,~:'_,~_,'_,~_,'_·,•.·,:_,~.':·_,i_,'_,~_,:,;_,',~,',~·',·-,:,,_· ·,'·'.·_,_..'...'_,'.•,'.• .'· ,• .: :_ .•.:·.::: ·iii:]
···:·:·:·:·:·:·:······ ·.·.·.·.·.··:·;:_:,:_;,o_;:;·;·;:::::;·:···· 
..·.·.·.··.·.·.·.·..::.::;:;:;:;: .·.·.·.·.-:=: 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD City's air pollution at harmful level 
•MEXICO CITY -Ozone contamination hit the danger level Wednesday in Mexico City's pollution index, registering 276 points. Visibility in some sections of the capital, among the world's smoggiest cities, was about a half-mile at noon as ozone combined with other pollutants. Index readings of 100 to 200 signify unsatisfactory pollution conditions; 201 to 300, dan­gerous, and above that, very dangerous. Mexico City, with 17 million people, is heading into the season when pollution is at its worst. Environmentalists predict an especially bad year despite efforts to cut contaminants. As the rainy season ends, winds diminish and a cold cap of air forms over the Valley of Mexico, trapping contaminants. 
NATIONAL Costs of education still rising 
•BOSTON-It doesn't take a Ph.D. to figure out that higher education is getting harder to afford. Tuition and fees at public colleges and universities rose an average of 10 percent this fall for the second double-digit increase in a row, while overall financial aid increased less than 8 percent, the College Board said Tuesday. Tuition and fees were up 7 percent at private, four-year colleges and universities, and up 6 percent at private, two-year schools. The cost of higher education ranges from $321 a year at the public, two-year College of the Mainland in Texas City, Texas, to $24,380 at private Sarah Lawrence College in suburban New York City, the board reported. 
Alcoholism genetic in women 
•CHICAGO -Genetics plays the biggest role in determining whether women become alcoholics, ac­cording to a study that calls into question a widely held 
OF INTEREST 
•NO Film Club will screen Jean-Luc Godard's science •Detroit NO Club invites everyone for pizza at Mother's fiction film noir classic, "Alpha ville," tonight at 8 p.m. in Pizza in Windsor, Canada at 8 p.m. October 21. the O'Shaugnessy Loft. Everyone welcome. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 14 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 213,797,080 +0.08 to 225.39 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+0.07 to 409.37 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-5.94 to 3195.48 
GOLD 
-1.20 to $344.00 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.037 to $3.715 oz 
FORECAST 
Cool today with a 70 percent chance of thunderstorms and highs in the low 60s. Colder and rainy Friday with highs in the upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  32  27  
Atlanta  n  55  
Bogota  64  48  
Boston  63  46  
Cairo  88  70  
Chicago  57  49  
Cleveland  59  44  
Dallas  89  67  
Detroit  57  44  
Indianapolis  65  50  
Jerusalem  79  59  

assumption about differences between the sexes. The findings contradict the belief that men are driven to drink more by genetics and women more by social in­fluences, said Dr. Kenneth Kendler, lead author of the study in today's Journal of the American Medical Asso­ciation. Kendler's study of 1,030 sets of female twins found that about 50 percent to 60 percent of a woman's tendency toward alcoholism is inherited. Social class, parental discipline and parents' drinking behavior appear to play a minor role, the researchers said. 
Caffeine withdrawal hazardous 
•BOSTON -Got a headache? Feel a little anxious? Depressed? It could be caffeine withdrawal. A study published today found that people who are used to a couple of cups of coffee or several cans of soda can feel downright lousy if they miss their daily jolt. The problem is suddenly going cold turkey. Easing back over a few days seems to minimize the risk. 
INDIANA Tyson spends productive sentence 
•PLAINFIELD, Ind. -The man who invited Mike Tyson to make his fateful journey to Indianapolis last year says the former heavyweight boxing champion is doing great in prison. "He understands what he has to do. He's .. making the best of the opportunity to find himself as an individual, not as Mike Tyson the boxer," Charles Williams said this week. Now, six months after being sentenced for rape, Tyson has settled into a routine of work and reads books about black history and issues. "I don't see any rebellion in him," Williams said. "I think he has used this as an opportunity to look within himself and toward the fu­ture. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1917: Mata Hari, a Dutch dancer who had spied for the Germans, was executed by a firing squad outside Paris. 

• 
In 1951: The situation comedy "I Love Lucy," had its premiere on CBS. 

• 
In 1964: Soviet officials announced the removal of Nikita Khrushchev from office. 

• 
In 1969: Peace demonstrators staged activities across the country, including a candlelight march around the White House, as part of a moratorium against the Vietnam War. 

• 
In 1990: Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev was named the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. 

• 
In 1991: The Senate narrowly confirmed the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court. 


54  43  
73  66  
73  48  
57  36  
25  23  
n  57  
63  47  
54  28  
67  47  
70  52  
57  40  
59  49  
68  64  
68  49  

------------------------------------------------------------~----~------------------------, 
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
Le Mans Hall receives new security system 
By CHRISTINA CANNON News Writer 
Le Mans Hall will receive a 
new security system to be acti­
vated November 2, according to 
Richard Chlebek, director of 
security at Saint Mary's. 
"The system is no different than locking the door behind you when you leave home," Chlebek said. "Students may see it as an inconvenience at first, but will grow accustomed to it. It's a question of whether one wants to sacrifice personal safety for the sake of conve­nience." 
Saint Mary's took measures to install a security system as a result of recommendations over the years to improve personal safety on campus, according to Chlebek. 
"Saint Mary's chose to take a proactive stance rather than a reactive one," he said. "We are not immune to criminal activity. We have been fortunate over the years." 
New IDs issued to Le Mans residents after the break will contain the students' library, dining, student ID and security 
' 
access numbers all on one card, Chlebek said. 
Because doors to the three stairwells in Le Mans will re­main locked around the clock, students will need the security card to enter and exit these ar­eas, Chlebek added. 
A separate security system will be placed on both elevators in Le Mans. During business hours, the elevators will serve the first floor and basement ar­eas. Residents will be given an entry code number that will al­low access to the upper resi­dential floors during these hours, Chlebek said. 
"I can already foresee a lot of problems this system may have," said Le Mans freshman Natalie Cheeseman. "There probably will be a greater number of people locked out of their rooms because they forgot to bring the card with them. This will be a big burden on not only the residents, but also the staff." 
However, she added, " I think that once people get adjusted, the added security will outweigh any hassle it may produce." 
Obey Smoking Laws 
Fall Break Special 
Beat the Clock! 
Thurs 5:00pm--7 :30prn 
Price of large 1 topping pizza is the time you call! 

The Observer page 3 

Troops end hurricane relief effort 
MIAMI (AP) -Nearly all of the troops still on hurricane-re­lief duty in South Florida will be pulled out by Saturday, and the three remaining tent cities will be dismantled over the next few weeks, officials said. 
All but about 100 of the 1 ,300 Army and Marine troops will be sent home in the next few days, Army Lt. Gen. Sam Ebbesen, commander of Joint Task Force Andrew, said Tuesday. There were 23,800 troops in South Florida on Sept. 11. 
"It's been a heartbreaking time, but we're proud we were able to be here and help our fellow Americans," Ebbesen said. 
The first troops landed four days after the Aug. 24 storm. They cleared roads, helped pitch tents, chased looters and fed some of the 160,000 people left homeless by Hurricane An­drew. 
Federal officials hope to close one tent city by Friday and phase out the others in the next few weeks. Nearly 2,000 people still live in three tent cities. 

Captain Ron PG13 
5:00, 7:30, 9:30 
Hero PG13 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
The Last of the Mohicans R 
4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
Every Sun. 8-midnight 
1 mile east of campus 
BEIJING (AP) -China on Wednesday sharply criticized a new U.S. law that will let thou­sands of Chinese students stay in the United States if they face persecution at home. 
"The allegation that it is 'unsafe' for them to return to China and that they face 'political persecution' is simply untenable," the state-run Xin­hua News Agency quoted an unidentified Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying. 
The law is "absolutely unac­ceptable to the Chinese side" and "obstructs the return of Chinese students," the spokesman said. 
President Bush signed a bill last week that would let 70,000 Chinese students stay perma­nently in the United States if conditions in China do not permit their safe return by the middle of 1993. 
China has tried to lure back students from abroad to help implement its modernization and economic reform plans. The government has promised perks for returning students and amnesty for those who supported the democracy movement, but only if they do not lobby for political reform. 
At Long Last! Tom Pitstick 21 on the 22llil! 
Have a Great Birthday Lots of Love, Mom, Dad, John, & Matt 

Christine, Honey: 
We wish you all the happiness in the world on your 18th Birthday on October 15th. 
You are always in our hearts and our minds. 
With Love, Your Dearest Mom, Dad and Sis 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1992 
Russia gives Koreans KAL flight documents 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian President Boris Yeltsin today gave a South Korean delegation recordings of radio conversa­tions involving the crew of the Korean Airlines jetliner that was shot down by Soviet fight­ers in 1983. 
The Boeing 7 4 7 was downed off Sakhalin Island, killing all 269 people aboard, after it strayed inside Soviet airspace en route from Anchorage, Ala., to Seoul. 
Yeltsin had been expected to hand over the plane's flight or data recorders, but he told the South Korean delegation that they had been disassembled and would remain in Russia. 
The material turned over in­cluded all radio exchanges be­tween the crew of flight KAL­007 and air traffic controllers and other planes, plus reports to then-Soviet leader Yuri An­dropov. The South Koreans also were given the conclusions of experts from the Soviet Defense 
Speaker 
continued from page 1 
foundly depressed and exhila­rated by the freedom found at the end. 
She summarized the plot of two women going on a trip that takes unexpected directions. Naive Thelma is almost raped, saved only when "the barrel of a gun is pointed at [the rapist's] temple," courtesy of Louise. Angered by the rapist's insults and prompted from her own memory of rape, Louise pulled the trigger. 
Rather than face a system they are sure will not under­stand their case, Thelma and Louise become fugitives. What 
Goals 
continued from page 1 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 
No competition. 
We love you all-
Bad Ass, Boston, Plax, Marcos and NO's 
best OJ!! 
Have a good break. 
Thanks for a good time, always!! Love MKM & CLN 
Happy Birthday DAN KALI Just wanted to make a fuss over you! 
Happy Birthday DAN KAU Just wanted to make a fuss over you I 
Happy Birthday DAN KALI Just wanted to make a fuss over you! 
r., >0 rP.;:. 
~ ~-o:~~f:'~o~"'"' 
~'(.~~0 .cii 
"b rl
"~~q; looking for 
"'o.;j Campus Bands 
Call 233-7747 After 3 p.m. 
1 mile east of campus 
Ministry, the KGB and Aircraft Ministry, and maps of the plane's itinerary. 
Soviet officials initially kept silent about the disaster, then charged that the Boeing 7 4 7 had invaded Soviet airspace on a secret spy mission. 
At a Kremlin ceremony, Yeltsin said that by handing over the materials Russia had demonstrated its desire for a thorough investigation of the incident. 
He said he had studied the documents and found them to contain "unique information." 
The same information was to be handed over to American officials and the International Civil Aviation Organization later today, said Yeltsin's press sec­retary, Vyacheslav Kostikov. 
It will also be given to the daily Izvestia newspaper for publication Thursday, and eventually to all countries whose nationals were aboard the plane, Kostikov said. 
follows is a spree of crime spanning three states. 
"To condemn them out of hand does not really under­stand their story at all," Fails said. "Change is what Thelma and Louise is all about-to de­cide at all costs to be free." 
In the end, Thelma and Louise drive over a cliff of the Grand Canyon rather than be arrested. 
Fails recalled Thelma's ear­lier observation during their ex­ile that "something's crossed over in me. I can't go back. I just couldn't live. I feel awake. Ever feel like at last you got something to look forward to?" 
Fails noted the irony in that statement because while the "agents of the law were closing in on them, they speak of something to look forward to." 
your decisions," Carrara said. "This has allowed us to only focus on one or two goals, but there is so much I want to do." 
Rich and Joe Riley, Can't wait until break! Especially since I'm ~tuck up here all night 
Yaaayy, NO security .... 
Live for the moment, love tor an eternity... P ·n K hee hee 
CONGRATULATIONS TO WALSH INTER-HALL FOOTBALL FOR THEIR DEFEAT OVER OFF-CAMPUS The Observer/ Sue Kehias 

Puzzle mania 
Taking a break from midterm exams, Notre Dame students attempt to decipher the challenging Observer crossword puzzle. 
German coalition tries to slow refugee influx 

BONN, Germany (AP) ­Chancellor Helmut Kohl's gov­erning coalition has proposed changing the constitution to slow an influx of refugees that has sparked attacks on asylum­seekers by rightist extremists. 
Under an agreement worked out Tuesday that is to be intro­duced in parliament on Thurs­day, the coalition also said the country must consider adopting its first immigration law. 
Kohl's government has been preoccupied and split by how to handle the asylum problem. 
Germany, with some of the world's most lax refugee poli­cies, is burdened with support­ing hundreds of thousands of refugees from former Yu­goslavia, the former Soviet bloc and the Third World while it struggles to pay for absorbing eastern Germany. 
"We want Germany to remain a foreigner-friendly country," the coalition said Tuesday in obvious reference to the ominous rise in attacks on for­eigners that have left over a dozen people dead since unifi­cation two years ago. 
A two-thirds majority is re­quired to approve a change in the constitution, however, so any plan would have to have 
r:C, ~ 
&A~ 
~ ().;j ~~~"i"\ \ 
.~,..._On~ 
~~~~o·, D 
"~~ ance 
0 
~ to DJ 
Fri & Sat 9:30-2:30 
1 mile east of campus 
G/arisa... Y?oses are red !7Jubba 's a Jfunk Jfappy2Jsl lc ourjauor1fe 7JrunkI 

Boue, Xancy, Ji(ary :Pal, Y/(issy, 23ec.ky, ?en, Xalhy & 23ubba 
Helmut Kohl 
support from the opposition So­cial Democrats, who are split on the issue. 
Their national leader, Bjoern Engholm, favors a constitu­tional amendment as a tool for lessening the crush of refugees and helping deflate rising xenophobia. But many others in the party view altering the constitution as a concession to neo-Nazis. 
The Social Democrats have set a party congress for next month, when they hope to work out their differences. 
Top leaders of Kohl's Christian Democrats, the ultra-con­servative Christian Social Union and the centrist Free Democrats met in a crisis ses­sion on Tuesday morning. 
They later announced agreement on a 12-point pro­posal which calls for changing the constitution's blanket guar­antee of political asylum -a leftover from the postwar pe­riod in which Germans felt a moral obligation because of Nazi abuses. 
The constitution now says, "Persons persecuted on political grounds shall enjoy the right of asylum." 
The coalition didn't specify how the constitution's wording would change. 
Free Democrats insisted, however, on preserving the fundamental right to asylum for politically persecuted indi­viduals. 
The Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party to Kohl's Christian Democrats, had insisted on exact wording limiting the right of asylum. 
The proposal calls for new regulations naming countries where political persecution is no longer considered a threat, such as Poland and Romania; and effectively requires refugees who come to Germany via a "safe third country" to return to that country. 
Startline· 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES When you write 8 checks or less  • FREE FIRST ORDER OF CHECKS Standard design  
• NO MINIMUM BALANCE  • PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES  
• FREE INSfANT CASH ATMACCESS  

Come to expect the best. 

NORWEST BANKS 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger NoiWest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 NoiWest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 
. ~---~­
----------------------------------------, 
page 5 
Thursday, October 15, 1992 The Observer 

ELECTION '92 
ELECTioN BRIEFs 
Mixed results In polls 
•NEW YORK-Vice President Dan Quayle's duel with Democratic Sen. Al Gore doesn't seem to have cost him any support, according to instant post-debate polls by two television networks. Gore was called a winner by 38 percent of viewers and Quayle by 35 percent, with 17 percent calling it a tie in a poll taken by ABC just after Tuesday's vice presidential debate in Atlanta. Gore's three-point advantage was within the poll's margin of error. Quayle not only helped his ticket slightly more than Gore did, but the 35 percent who thought he won compared favorably with the 18 percent who thought Bush won after Sunday's leadoff de­bate. ·" 
Stockdale ready to serve 
•ATLANTA -James Stockdale conceded Wednesday he was "kind of out of it" during the vice presidential debate but said voters shouldn't think that means he isn't up to the job. Political analysts said his debate showing could only hurt Ross Perot's against-all-odds presidential hopes. In morning-after interviews, Stockdale attributed his sometimes uncertain or fumbling answers in Tuesday night's debate to a matchup of an everyday citizen against two polished politicians with programmed answers to every question. 
Report: Perot's tax plan favors him 
NEW YORK (AP) -Ross Perot pays a smaller share of his income in taxes than most Americans and would pay even less under his "shared sacrifice" economic plan, a newspaper reported today. 
The Texas billionaire pays 6.8 percent of his earnings in federal income tax because much of his income is derived from tax-free municipal bonds, according to Citizens for Tax Justice, a Washington-based nonprofit group that ran a computer analysis for New York Newsday. 
The analysis found that Perot would pay 6.7 percent of his in~ome in taxes under his proposed economic plan. 
The independent presidential candidate has refused to discuss his personal finances or make his tax returns public, so precise figures are not available. 
But a spokesman has confirmed the accuracy of a Fortune magazine survey that put his net worth at $3.3 billion. 
Last year, Perot paid at least $15.8 million in taxes on an estimated income of $230.4 million, Newsday reported. 
The estimated percentage that Perot paid in federal taxes was only slightly higher than the 6.2 percent paid by the average taxpayer earning $30,000 a year, and was far below the 11 percent average share of gross income paid by all taxpayers, according to a Congressional Budget Office report cited by the newspaper. 
Perot's plan would raise the top income tax rate to 33 percent from 31 percent; raise gasoline taxes; and limit mortgage interest deductions to loans up to $250,000 and end them on second homes. 
Other proposals include a 10 percent investment tax credit; a permanent tax credit for research and experimentation; and a cut h1 the capital gains tax. 
Robert Mcintyre, who prepared the analysis for Newsday, said the proposal to increase the top tax rate would mean Perot would pay slightly more in taxes. 
Clinton files investigated 
WASHINGTON (AP) -An as­that Clinton's passport file had sistant secretary of state directed a been tampered with. search this month of U.S. Embassy The FBI has since reported that it files in Britain and Norway for had found no evidence of information on Bill Clinton's years tampering, and State Department at Oxford University, the Bush spokesman Richard Boucher said administration said Wednesday. Wednesday the searches in London 
Sen. AI Gore, the Democratic vice and Oslo turned up nothing. presidential nominee, said it was Defending the actions taken by "very disturbing, even outrageous, Tamposi, a former Republican for George Bush to use the State congressional candidate and party Department to rummage through finance chairman in New the personal files of an American Hampshire, Boucher said no one citizen for political purposes." discussed the situation with the 
But the State Department said White House or Bush campaign the files were checked legitimately officials. at the request of news The searches were touched off by organizations, and Assistant Freedom of Information requests Secretary of State Elizabeth filed by the Hearst newspapers, Tamposi was merely trying to ABC, The Associated Press and make sure the effort was con­other news organizations amid ru­ducted properly after indications mors. 
Aides say Quayle had agenda right 
ATLANTA (AP) -Dan Quayle played the traditional vice presidential role of hatchet man with abandon in his debate with AI Gore and James Stockdale. He badgered and bashed Gore in a performance that lifted sagging Republican spirits. 
Quayle was headed to Alabama today for a rally at Auburn University before returning to Washington. 
Quayle ended where he began, asking American voters, "Do you really believe Bill Clinton will tell the truth? And do you trust Bill Clinton to be your president?" 
"We spelled out our agenda -and we spelled it right," said Jim Pitts of the Bush-Quayle campaign. Rich Bond, Republican national chairman, called it "Dan Quayle's finest hour as far as I'm concerned." 
An Associated Press panel of debate judges de­clared Gore the technical winner, but several said Quayle probably scored better politically. 

7 Day Deliv.~ry~ 
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square (219)2 7 7 1291O'<-~e'<-'0 51400 31 North ~'(: South Bend, IN 46637 ~~~~~ 
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

Northwestern College ofChiropractic 
is accepting applications for its 1993 entering classes. Qanuary, May and September) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
I Approx.. 2-3 years ofcollege in alife or health science degree program. I AG.P.A. of2.5 or above. I Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 
Northwestern offers: 
I Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:I. I Aspacious 25 acre campus in suburban Minneapolis. I Full accreditation by North Central Association ofColleges and Schools 
and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 
Call: 1-800-888-4777or Write: Director ofAdmissions 2501 West Eighty-Fourth Street I Minneapolis, MN 55431-1599 
John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative• New Memberships or Transfers 
,\\,.Ool ••ou.u 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Ptease ask for John O'MIU.y. 
~ 
TfiE POI~TE 
·":,...,~.>•·='· ,_________ -----.... .,.. '%~:tV>' -----­
AT SAINT JOSEPH 
:For graduate Students and:Facu{ty 
We afso fiave furnislied e~cutive suites 
Office Hours: Monday-:Friday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 LaSaf{e fllvenue, Soutli 13end, Inaiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 
GLADmUX TRAVEL 
TOP GROUND GAINER OF 1988 HAS GONE TO THE Am 
234-6636 
.Friends of St. Aelred 
' 
! 
A monthly prayer group 
How best to be gay or 
lesbian and Christian? 
Meeting 2nd Sundays 3:30p.m. 
P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
f:., lO obr\,;:.. 
~ o.J ~o" 
(ZI 
cf'. ~"' 
..._b (Zif;;'
~~v 
DJ
.....~ ~ ~~ ~ 
Friday & Saturday 
9:30-2:30 
1 mile east of campus 
WE WILL NOT BE , SILENCED 
Last Tuesday in a bold move to silence those who do not share their political views, the Notre Dame College Democrats turned a meeting of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life group into a publicity stunt for their cause. 
They claimed to be interested in "discussion." Perhaps that is why they came to the meeting unannounced, disrupted the presentation, refused to let the speaker continue, and refused to sit when politely asked to. And perhaps that is why they felt the need to invite the local media to someone 
else's meeting. After all, what good is "discussion" unless you can also get free publicity 
for your cause. Yet not a single Democrat came to anyone involved with organiz­ing the Right to Life group before the meeting and expressed their concern about the group's opposition to Governor Clinton's presidential bid. But it is not just Democrats or Governor Clinton who the Right to Life group stands against, it is Republican Senator Arlen Specter, Republican Indiana House of Representatives' candidate Don Soderman and Republican Governor Bill Weld of Massachusetts. If the College Democrats would have asked Right-to Life about their views instead of disrupting the meet­ing, perhaps they could understand why many Notre Dame students and many Americans find abortion unac­ceptable. They find abortion unac­ceptable in the same way that they find racism unacceptable, and they will vote for neither a racist nor a developmentalist. We believe that all human beings should have the same rights regard­less of stage of development. We feel it is our duty to speak out on this issue. And we will not be silenced. 
WHEN THEY TELLYOU THAT ABORTION ISAMAITER JUST BETWEEN AWOMAN 
AND HER DOCTOR 

J'lw irJt:rt,cfi/)/" plwto,t:mplr a/""'" lly /Jr: naitwr .Jonils slrtnvs what ;J lrr.altln', actiw~ intrault!rint.' d1ild looks Ukt: ill 1.9 \~'t~t~ks. /.ike tlw IJud n(11 flmvtm !Je;wti(trl.llut, unj(Jrtwwtdl;stiil 11 c:;mdid;llci(rrr dec:tivc' 
ahortion. 
There are alternatives to abortion. There have to be. 
Copynglrt ©1983 Ptltr D Erhard 
THEY'RE FORGEIDNG SOMEONE 
This ad is sponsored by individual members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community who feel it is important to speak out on this issue. It is not sponsored by any group. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219} 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .•..•.•........••..... David Kinney Advertising Manager •....... Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ....•...........•. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•.••.Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ...•............••...•.• David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ol the University ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Last weekend I saw the Notre Dame production of Eugene O'Neill's play "Ah Wilderness" performed in Washington Hall. My question is about your pa­per; why do you not print re­views of campus productions? 
I suppose that you have done your duty by running "previews." A preview tells its reader a little history about the production, usually supple­mented by comments from the director. A preview also an­nounces the time and location of performances. I would like to suggest that previews are worthless and that you ought to be running reviews instead. 
The reason that previews are worthless is precisely what separates them from reviews: the fact that they do not evalu-
Previews glorify, reviews critique 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to a letter (The Observer, Sept. 28), re­garding Democratic Presiden­tial Nominee Bill Clinton and his "campaign for death." Bill Clinton is not on a campaign for death, but a campaign to im­prove the lives of all Americans. 
I believe that our Lady of Guadalupe would favorably look upon improving our health care for all citizens, college op­portunities for all adolescents, and social work being done as loan payback. 
Regarding Bill Clinton's op­ponent and his possibly termed "campaign for life", do you think that the blessed Juan Diego in 1531 would look fa­vorably upon increased poverty due to increased taxes, igno-
DOONESBURY 
ate the production. A proper review includes all the relevant historical, directorial and logis­tical information that a preview has, but it also points out the strengths and weaknesses of the show. 
This extra information allows the readers (and potential viewers) to form some opinion about whether or not the show is worth seeing. But, more importantly, a review can direct attention to perhaps subtler aspects of the production that are especially noteworthy, fea­tures that might enhance the enjoyment of the average the­atre-goer but that might otherwise go unnoticed. 
A preview cannot do the same job, because it never gets around to saying how the pieces of the show work together (or fail to do so). 
can imagine a number of reasons why The Observer chooses not to run reviews. They are hard to write, but there must be qualified students around. They offer opinions, but then so do editorials. 
They might be pointless, if the audience for Notre Dame plays is comprised of mostly season ticket holders who are starved for even the semblance of a cultural event in South Bend. But from the point of view of a student newspaper, these are bad reasons: the paper ought to have proper reviews. A preview is nothing but a glorified poster that can be written without the writer having so much as seen the play. 
Michael Byron Off-campus Oct. 12, 1992 
ranee to the underprivileged, and celebrations after war? 
Would he bless the man who runs a country for the benefit of upper-middle class citizens who contribute to the health of the economy? Would our Lady of Guadalupe place a halo on the head of our current president, who has allotted millions of dollars to the arms race? I think not. 
The statement that "Bill Clin­ton cares nothing for today's mothers and their unborn chil­dren" is equally absurd. Bill Clinton supports legislation which would allow parents to take time off work to care for their newborn or sick child. 
Do you favor a "campaign for life" where a single, underprivi­leged woman, bearing the child 
THAT'S A FAIRY 
~//lAISYCUX 
S4LAf?.1 N£VCR. fiAPP/3Na?/ YCV mw,7HIS ISN'T 
RJNANYMORE.' I'l/.5HAl? IT/ 
rM !JROPPING CfJT.' 
of her rapist while her father and brother are off getting killed in a war, would have to return to work shortly after the birth of her child? 
This woman, under the "benefit" of a "campaign for life" would also be denied pre­natal care due to the decline in Medi-Care. Is this what you call caring for today's mothers? 
Jesus Christ cared for the sick, fed the hungry and clothed the naked. From what I see, Bill Clinton and his campaign come far closer to these acts of 
Jesus than  do  those  of his  
opponent.  
Annie Linehan  
Siegfried Hall  
Sept. 30, 1992  

Throw caution, cups, and marshmallows to the wind 
Dear Editor: 
This is to Mr. Burke and Mr. Murphy, (The Observer, Oct. 7, 1992). 
Thank you for taking the ini­tiative to lash out against the high-risk "tradition" Notre Dame students have of firing plastic cups in the stands dur­ing home football games. 
The potential for danger in the throwing of these and worse yet, marshmallows, has personally caused me much anguish during the last nine home games I have attended. 
Who are you to sarcastically refer to us as "pinnacles of ma­turity"? When did you set the standards for how to act at a football game? Does this mean we can purchase your book on stadium maturity at the book­store? 
Odd as it may seem, throwing objects is a popular pastime at sporting events. 
In Cleveland, die-hard fans in the famed "Dawg Pound" litter the end zone with dog biscuits to show support for the Browns. 
Detroit hockey fans throw an octopus onto the ice before the first playoff game begins. 
In New York, among other cities, it is commonplace for the fans to fire their hats toward the ice after one of their beloved Rangers registers a hattrick. 
These actions may seem like "Romper-room" hijinks to you, but to many loyal fans, they are simply a way of expressing their support for the team. 
Perhaps your assertion is correct; the potential for bodily harm far outweighs the enjoy­ment derived from throwing a plastic cup. 
Let us then, bind together to ensure that all "danger" is re­moved from football games. 
Maybe the stadium should in­crease security, say one usher per row, to "chaperone" the lit­tle kids at the games. 
Or, better yet, make students give their IDs in when buying a coke. Upon returning the empty cup, the student would be returned his ID card. 
If you aren't willing to lay your life on the line to watch the Fightin' Irish in person, please remember NBC is always an excellent alternative. 
I personally will throw cau­tion to the wind and welcome all plastic cups and/or marsh­mallows whose final destination may be the back of my head. 
Kevin Cammarata Keenan Hall Oct. 6, 1992 
Clinton's campaign is for life 

UM... OKAY. 
OU/?.GU£ST TONIGHT 
H458E5N... 
\ 
I'M BACK/ S/MPt£.45 
lHAT/ t&T's 
TAtK.ABa/T7H£1SS{f&Si 
'One has to go abroad to find the home one has lost.' 
Franz Kafka 
Is your universe bicameral? submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
r--'--~~------------------­
Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, October 15, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Meeting only 'furthered division' on abortion issue 
Dear Editor: Governor Clinton whom it op­noted, I have not seen one of Why didn't any of the coming presidential race. What 
I would like to clarify some of poses. It also opposes Republi­them at a Right to Life meeting Democrats come to the elections a frank admission from the events that happened at the can candidates who would deny or event in the past three years. committee meeting or speak to someone who claims that "this recent Right to Life meeting the right to life to a certain If you meet one of these "pro­someone involved in organizing was not a stunt." ("Right to Life Addressed," the class of human beings based life" democrats, ask them what the Right to Life group before There are numerous other Observer, Oct. 7, 1992). In solely upon development. (For they have done on behalf of the last Tuesday's attack? This was points I would discuss if I had particular, I would like to some strange reason, the unborn. not done to encourage space-The Right to Life group address the disruption that the College Republicans have not I have worked to organize discussion. did not take out the ad (The College Democrats caused­yet seen fit to wreck our meetings and events. I have They will also claim that Gov­Observer, Oct. 2, 1992) as has pa_rtially to gain publicity for meeting. How open-minded of worked in the local crises ernor Clinton is much more been claimed, the president of their cause, and partially to dis­them.) pregnancy center helping ex­"pro-life" on other issues. What the group did not say you were courage the Right to Life group The article goes on to say pectant mothers as well as a they have attempted to do is destined for "eternal damna­from speaking out on the that, due to the College pro-life day care center for throw up a smoke screen by tion" if you voted for Bill Clinton presidential race-and to cor­Democrats, the abortion stances children of unwed mothers. Yet referring to any other position (those spreading such accusa­rect some possible misconcep­of the presidential candidates I have also been told, time and that they hold as "pro-life" (I tions are clearly more inter­tions the article may have unin­were discussed instead of the again, that I am a religious would like to note that I find ested in smearing their opposi­tentionally given to those who agenda. I would hardly refer to fanatic (despite the fact that I their insincerity here particu­tion than smearing their oppo­were not at the meeting. what happened as a discussion. am an atheist). and that I "do larly appalling.) sition than in serious political 
The article states that some In fairness, after a brief talk not care about women" simply They may play with words all discourse). "members of the audience the first scheduled speaker did because I believe that all hu­they wish and refer to their voiced their concern" about the ask if there were any questions. man beings should have the positions on the environment, I do believe that the Right to Right to Life group's position on At this point a member of the same rights, regardless of stage art funding, and Somalia as Life group has been overly the presidential race. While audience stood up and asked a of development. "pro-life." but I'm sorry, Gov­negative in regard to Governor these people were technically question about President Bush. But where have these pro-life ernor Clinton's position on sav­Clinton's candidacy at times, but "members of the audience," While the question was Democrats been? Why have I ing the snail darters, on term at the same time I believe the they certainly were not active extremely long winded, not seen them at these events? limits, and the best way to re­Right to Life group has correctly members of the group. Having argumentative, and scathing of Are the afraid to take the criti­duce the federal deficit do not stressed that developmentalism, been active in the group over President Bush, I did not have a cism that comes with being ac­make him more pro-life, no like racism, should be a the past three years, I can not problem with it being asked. tive in the Right to Life move­matter how much you may disqualifying issue for any remember seeing a single one If someone who wishes to be ment? Surely they have time to agree with them. candidate, and I have seen no of them at a meeting or event involved with the group also be involved in the political pro­But surely this disruption was proof that George Bush did this year or in previous years. wishes to express their opposi­cess in other ways. not totally without purpose. In anything more than modify his 
Rather than being members tion of the president, the group Even more disturbing than part, it was done as a publicity pro-life position on abortion of the group, these were mem­is open to differing views. the inactivity of the pro-life stunt, for not only did the Col­when he became a vice-presi­bers of the College Democrats What I did have a problem Democrats is that some of those lege Democrats call up their dential candidate (though, in who had come to the meeting with was that after this initial who helped to stop the meeting phone list and invite members fairness, I am not 100% positive solely to disrupt it. question, Democrat after Demo­weren't even pro-life. If the to attack the Right to Life these claims are false), while 
The article further states that crat continued to stand and Democrats can't even be honest group, but they also Bill Clinton was pro-life as these people were concerned lambast not only the president about their position, I find it conveniently mentioned it to the recently as 1986. ("I oppose "about the contempt for Bill but the Right to Life group it­hard to respect their views on local media. After all, what abortion and government fund­Clinton supporters by pro-life self. Every attempt to calm the issues that I agree with them on good is "discussion" unless it ing of abortion." -Response to activists." (Note that the Col­situation was met with another such as gay rights. (As a Gays also means free publicity for Arkansas Right to Life Candi­lege Democrats claim that The interruption. When asked to sit, for Life handout puts it, your group? date Questionnaire, Sept. 1986). Observer is biased against they refused. discrimination is wrong, them.) Nothing could be further For nearly 15 minutes, the whether it's against someone What should be of even more The actions of the College from the truth. To begin with, speaker was not given an op­who is gay or straight, born or concern is that this was done, in Democrats last Tuesday did not the group has never mentioned portunity to answer the original unborn.) part, to silence the Right to Life encourage discussion or debate Bill Clinton's supporters at its "question" and the co-presi­If you ask the leaders of the group. As one of the organizers within the university commu­meetings. Nor do I believe that dents of the group were ig­Democrats about this incident, of this event confessed to me nity; rather they furthered di­the Right to Life group has nored, while the democrats they will most likely claim they outside the meeting room, the vision and discouraged others shown "contempt" for Bill continued with a one-sided are interested in "encouraging College Democrats were from speaking out. Clinton. monologue among themselves. discussion" within the Right to "concerned" that the Right to 
What it has said is that it op­Those who disrupted the Life group. Do these sound like Life group's stance on abortion Mike Sheliga poses Governor Clinton's pres­meeting claimed to be "pro-life the actions of a group interested was "influencing" too many Fischer Graduate Housing 
idential bid. But it is not only democrats." But as I previously in enc.ouraging discussion? 
T h u r s d a y 's V e r s e 
~~~~A~A~~A~AA~A~AA~A~~A~AA~A~~~~AA~A~AA~AAAA~AAAA~AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
N.D. Sesquicentennoal Poem 
Father Sarin had a dream-in 1842 
In the woods of northern Indiana, he dared to start a school. 
He faced cholera epidemic, 30 fires and more 
But nothing dared to halt the plan-the Father had in store. 
In 1879, Father.Sorin turned sixty-five 
A devastating blaze took place, but his dream was still alive. 
He declared from the fire that he, 
Had dreamed too small a dream­
"The college would be rebuilt," said he-according to a broader theme. 
During the California Gold Rush He dispatched the Holy Cross brothers-To seek and find a golden dome, that would prove miracles like no others. 
One hundred and fifty years have passed Tho' the miracles have yet to cease-Father Sarin's dream lives on, throughout America and overseas. 
Students come from near and far To the campus in the woods-And share a joy and commitment, like they never thought they could. 
The golden dome, it still shines proud We still speak the Father's name­Students come-and graduates part-Tho' they leave behind a place in their heart For the University of Notre Dame 
By Marsha L. Sisk Cook I, North Dining Hall 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished poem to: 
Thursday's Verse, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN, 46556 
people's opinions about the up-Oct. 12, 1992 
ND adults should 'get after it' at home football games 
Dear Editor: Nebraska are as into the game 
On each of the last two Satur­as the ND students, and since days I have had the opportunity there are about 70,000 of them, to attend a college football it makes a real difference! game in the home stadium of By comparison, the silence of one of the traditional powers of the ND adults this past Satur­the game: Nebraska and Notre day during the Stanford game Dame. was so pronounced that it 
While enjoying both meetings surely must have left the play­immensely (ND so much more ers wondering if they were because I am an ND parent!), I playing on the road. am left with two very clear im­ND adults, let's see you "get ages of the fan support for both after it" like the students. That of these two teams. noise and support is what the 
First of all, the Notre Dame home field advantage is all band and student fans are out­about! Coach Holtz and every standing and are into the game player deserve that support! from well before the opening Patrick Durow whistle until well after the Omaha, NE teams have left the field. Oct. 6, 1992 
Secondly, the adult fans at 
'Poor table manners' hurt fellow classmates 
Dear Editor: into consideration. Every time a 
In order to alleviate the fi­mess is left on a table or a food nancial burden of attending a fight is instigated, your private university, many stu­roommate, friend, or classmate dents are employed with Notre may be the one cleaning up the Dame Food Services. aftermath. 
These students work at sev­Please do not make the lives eral meals each week in addi­of these students any more dif­tion to a regular course load. ficult through a blatant display 
Considering the difficulty level of immaturity and poor table of many of Notre Dame's manners. classes, sacrificing this precious time is no mean feat. Patricia A. Moran 
The next time you dine on Farley Hall campus, please take something Oct 11, 1992 
Accent ­
Thursday, October 15, 1992 page 9 
Be a star 
Students register to be extras in the movie 'Rudy' 
By MATT CARBONE on, toiling for three years as a Accent Writer member of the scout team, and never getting a chance to 
"''m going to tell them I dress for a game. Finally, in have an orange Pacer," said the last home game in his Alycia Capozella, a junior senior year, Ruettiger was put from P.W. "Add 'with green on the "dress list." Ruettiger racing stripes'," suggested her was able to get into the game friend Rich Toohey, a junior in the final seconds, and made from Keenan. "It will make it a tackle for a loss as time ran sound better." out. 
This was but one of the 
conversations overheard last Shooting for "Rudy" will Saturday during the begin in the fall, and extras registration of extras for the are needed each day. movie "Rudy," which is to According to Owen Rice, begin filming at Notre Dame Extras Casting Coordinator for later this fall. "Rudy," 20 to 40 extras will be 
Throughout the day, Notre needed on an average day of Dame and Saint Mary's shooting, with approximately students and residents of 2000 people needed for the South Bend filtered into film's football scenes. Stepan Center, with hopes of When asked what he looks 
becoming a part, albeit a for in an extra, Rice replied small one, of a major motion that "the big thing is picture production. availability. We shoot in 12­hour days; extras are needed "Rudy" is the real-life story even longer than that, to come of Rudy Ruettiger, a Notre in earlier and get dressed up Dame football walk-on and by wardrobe. An extra must legend of the 1970s, which is be available for the whole being filmed by Sunbeam day." Rice realizes, though, that in the fall, with school in
Productions, a division of the So if you have the right look who look like actors in the business." Kristy Spreitzer,
Tri-Star Corporation. session, getting enough extras and a lot of free time, there's a movie, who are interested in another sophomore in Throughout his life, "will be hard in this setting." 
good chance you will be called film making, or who are just Howard, is a little more down­Ruettiger dreamed of playing to be an extra. Rice also said interesting and enthusiastic." to-earth. "It was something to 
The other quality Rice and
football at ND, but was that he is looking for stand-ins do. I just want to watch the constantly told that it was his workers look at when and photo doubles from the One of these enthusiastic movie and look for my face." impossible due to his small registering extras is pool of extras. persons is Anne McNarnay, a 
appearance. Since the movie
size. After applying and being sophomore communications Whatever your reasons, 
denied acceptance into Notre is set in the mid-1970s, hair 
Stand-ins take the place of major in Howard Hall. "Ever there could be a place for youDame, Ruettiger joined the and (in the case of men) actors during lighting and since I was little acting out as an extra in "Rudy."
sideburns of an extra should
army. camera angle set-ups, while scenes from 'Annie' in my Registration to be an extra 
be in the style of that era. For 
photo doubles take the place backyard, I've always wanted will take place on Saturday,After serving in the army, women, hair should be of a similar-looking actor or to get involved in movies. I'd October 17 at Stepan Center 
shoulder-length or longer, and
Ruettiger transferred to Holy actress who, for example, is be thrilled just to be an extra." from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Bring a 
Cross College, from which he not in a '90s style. For men, being filmed from behind. Shannah Duddy, a junior color snapshot of yourself. If finally was accepted into ND hair should be past the ears, 
from P.W., is no less excited. you cannot make it Saturday, as a transfer. Ruettiger joined and sideburns should be Rice said that he will "pull She said, "I hope this will be you can call Owen Rice at 
bushy and long.
the football team as a walk-stand-ins from those extras my big break in show 239-8877 to register. 
'The Africans' looks inside African culture 
By KENYA JOHNSON arrival of Islam and examines its South Bend communities more aware after the colonial period. 
Assistant Accent Editor influence on trade and architecture, and informed about Africa and African "New Conflicts" and "In Search of 
and on language, law, and learning. issues," said Zounlome. Stability" will be shown Tuesday, 
Are you ready for action and Likewise, the videos trace the path of November 3. "New Conflicts" views 
adventure? Do you want to see mighty Christianity from ancient Ethiopia to "The two most important things we the rise of the nationalists movement, 
kingdoms and political power modern-day missionaries. want to get across are the changes the warrior tradition of indigenous 
struggles? At Montgomery Theater in "The series is a great way to educate that are happening in the political Africa, the jihad tradition of Islam, and 
LaFortune you can see all of this in a others on such a foreign country," said system in Africa and the contributions modern guerilla warfare. "In Search 
video series of nine one-hour Smith. "There is not much quality Africa makes all over the world," of Stability" examines the search of a 
programs titled "The Africans." visual material on Africa available for explained Zounlome. viable form of government for Africa. 
"The Africans," offers a view of students or the general public,"she "I do not think people realize the 
Africa from the inside looking out and added. significance of these videos for both On Thursday November 12 the 
examines the contemporary life and Africa and America," he added. videos are, "A Garden of Eden in 
history of the country. Ali Mazrui, a Smith said that the manner in which The series begins tonight with the Decay?," which examines Africa's 
professor of political science at the Mazrui hosts the series contributes to showings of "Anatomy of A Continent" struggle for economic independence, 
University of Michigan and the its excellence. and "The Triple Heritage of Lifestyles." and "A Conflict of Culture," which 
University of Jos, Nigeria, hosts the "It's an examination of its (Africa's) "Anatomy of A Continent" examines illustrates the coexistence of many 
series. triple heritage: what is indigenous, Africa as the birthplace of humankind African traditions in modern life and 
what was contributed by Islam, and and discusses the impact of geography the conflicts and compromises that 
"Mazrui draws on his own what was acquired from the West," a on African History. emerge from the mixing of cultures. 
experience of Africa, as well as those representative wrote in a press "The Triple Heritage of Lifestyles" 
of scholars throughout the world," said release. "The coexistence of these compares simple African societies with The last show, "Africa in the World" 
Lynn Smith, spokeswoman for the three legacies helps to explain the those that are more complex and will shown be Thursday, November 19. 
Corporation for Public Broadcasting, diversity of the continent and the centralized. This program reveals African 
the company who funded "The African people." contributions to contemporary culture 
Africans." "He shares with viewers Graduate student and president of Showing on Thursday, October 29 and studies the continuing influence of 
the 'Africa that was' before outsiders the Notre Dame African Student are "New Gods,"a video that reveals the superpowers on the affairs of the 
invaded, describing its histories and Association, Guillaume Zounlome said the factors that influence religion in continent. 
traditional customs," Smith added. he has high hopes for the programs Africa, and "Exploitation," a video that Each program will be shown in the 
being shown at Notre Dame. looks at the maimer in which AfriCa's Montgomery Theater in LaFortune at 
"The Africans," filmed in a total of "Our goal in presenting these films is human and natural resources have 7:30p.m. All shows will be followed by 
20 different countries, recounts the to make both the Notre Dame and been exploited before, during, and discussions. 

,
, ' 
r page 10 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1992 
r 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. a1309 Haggar College 
' 
r 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
, ' 
•••••••NEED PSU Tlx••••••••
I need a ride to or near ST. LOUIS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
, ' 
for Fall Break. I will split gas and Call Laurie x2998 DOING SERVICE WORK OVER I NOTICES tolls $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ You have what I want FALL BREAK? Interested in talking 
I , ' Please call Tim at 1422 I NEED 1 BC GA, You have what I want to an Observer reporter about your ATIENTION: 
' BYU Stud Ticks for sale DAVE, x4506 experience? Raise awareness
For more information and 
..RIDE NEEDED''Fall Break Need BC Stud's & GA's and I am willing to pay for it about service opportunities and getassistance regarding the To: Harrisburg, PA; Frederick or Pat 272-8115 yes, I will pay for it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! your name in the paper!! 
investigation of financing, business Baltimore, MD; Washington, D.C.
opportunities and work-at-home 
I Will Help Pay For Gas! 45 yd line BYU stud for sale. PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME -Call the Observer Accent dept. oropportunities, THE OBSERVER 
Please call Cheryl x4813. CHEAP!!! call Michele @3194. WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR I desperately need it NOW!! Jenn at 4059 and leave your nameurges its readers to contact the 
GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 and#.
Better Business Bureau of 
I Need A Ride From DC AREA to HELP!!! I need 1 B.C. ticket. Your right, I NEED GAs 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
NO on SUN. 10/25. Will Help With Stud. or G.A. Call x3490. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Okay, Kimmee, here it is.
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
Expenses. Call JOE-277-5733 I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's II KYLIE 287-9118 A little onomatopoeia 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
I NEED Penn St. tix!!! G.A. only!!! Betsy 273-1792 (leave message) comin at ·ya!
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
HAVE A FREE CORNER IN YOUR Call Jessica x3490. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ POP 
WASH, DC-BOUND CAR? RRREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
Desperate for ride to DC Fri/Sat Help! Help! I need 4 GA's for B.C. WANTED 3 GA's NO VS BYU I hope you're "satisfied"! 
WILL PAY MORE THAN SHARE Please call Julie X2862 10/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355-Need 3 BC Tickets, Student or GA.
TYPING 
GAS/TOLLS!! Call Tony 272-3124 7131 RON Top Dollar. Call Dan@ 288-6818. DRUGS!!
287-4082 
BUYMYBYU! Fri. is DA's B-day TICKETS NEEDED-10 plus BYU HOSEA!!
Do you need a ride to PGH ? 
FOR RENT call Erin@ 2331 GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U Wanted: B.C. GA's 
Leaving Sat after GMATS 
Call Joy x1675 WHO IS THIS RUDY4648 Maria BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Need PSU tix California ALUM desperate for Penn CHARACTER, ANYWAY? 219-291-7153 Mike 234-8306 State GAs Top $. Pis lv mess. ((WordWorks Typing Service (415)597-2319 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MARGETerm papers, dissertations, theses SECLUDED 4BR, 2BATH NEED BYU G.A.'s X4108277-7406 COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS. Need 15 BYU GA's! NEEDED !I!! Loving young couple want to adopt 4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 289-7875 2 BYU GA'S baby. Mom a teacher will stay home APPLYING TO THE MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE. I must have B.C. tickets! Either ----------full time. Call Laura/Brian collect LONDON PROGRAM? 
DEPOSIT. 272-0806. Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and &&&&&&&&&&&&§<&&&&&&& CALL BETH 708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194 his buddies are coming in from 284-5173Beat the rush ... 
B.C. to watch their team get Help me out, Help me out !!!!!!!!!!!!
Get your 
FOR SALE slaughtered! Please help me out! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$APPLICATION 
I'M DESPERATE!!!!!! X4990 Because Because Hobbes is still not 21, too badin before break 
R.T. BUS TICK. to CLEVELAND $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ some day you'll drink with us 
B.O. X2862 My parents, sisters and Got $$$MUSICIANS NEEDED : 
!!!!!!1!!!!!1!1!!!!!!1!111!!!!!!!11!!!!!!11!!!!!!!1111!1! grandparents are coming for BYU. Need 4 PENN ST GAs !!!!!!!!!!!!

guitar players esp.! 
MacPius, 2.5 meg RAM, carrying !!! They would like to see one game Call Ben at x3797
For loeal "Kids for Saving the Earth" 
case, ext. BOOk drive. ext 20 meg NEEDED... together before I graduate. I STILL NEED BC GA'S IN A BIG, camping trips. Need "crazy" leaders HD, modem, lmagewriter. Asking 4 G.A.'s for BYU PLEASE offer your B Y U GAs BAD WAY. THE THREAT OF for children's songs around 
500. Call 273 9275. to me. PHYSICAL DANGER IS IMMINENTcampfires. 
CALL JENNY @ 273-2993 Please Help me... IF I DO NOT COME THROUGH Early evenings, weekends. 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Thank you for your help. FOR MY "FRIENDS." 
Call Bill Staunton 272-4850 
Rita Delivery on Campus Joe G. x 1161 I desperately need 4 BYU GA's. 
eveninas. Don't delay. 
234-6524 Please help! If you have them, I want them. Please save my life. Friends from Seattle want 2 GA's &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& Jenn x4059 
MAC SE/20 & lmagewriter II to BC or Penn. Call ANDY at 283-1723 
Softwares and more, $1000 This is my last year! x4174 Need to trade 2 BC GA's for 2 BYU CONGRATS TO THE WINNERS 
Call 239-8713W or 271-1507H GA's Call Jim at 232-2107-after OF THE LYONS GOLF CLASSIC! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Black and Gold Crucifix 
I NEED 2 BYU GAs 10:00pm. $$$$$$$$$$$BYU$$$$$$$$$$$ •$100 Grand Prize Winning Team of(Broken from Chain) If found BYU Stu. tix. Dalys X4012 Dan x2053 -Leave message I NEED 2 BYU GA's Joe Huston. David Colgan, Chris please call Bill x1131 
NEED 4 BYU GA's HEATHER 284-CALL MATI x1741 Garlitz, and Mike Nuss with the HELP! 4369 $$$$$$$$$$$BYU$$$$$$$$$$$ score of 5 under. 
BIG REWARD, no questions asked 
TICKETS My family was devastated when •Jeff Hasselman for winning For my class ring lost 1 0 I 1 . If 
they saw NO lose to Stanford. Help I need 4 BYU GA's in a bad way. I Need Lots of BYU tix! Longest Drive and a Parisi dinner found, please call Andrew NEED BC TICKETS them out of this depression by WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!! Student or GA for two.
283-4076. 
selling me 2 BYU GA's & 2 stud Chris 273-84 70 call Cortez: 256-0418 •Jesse Ewan for winning Closest to Call Sean H @1817 tix.Call Missy X2947 Please Help Out! the Pin and a Papa John's pizza Lost: Water Supply and Sewage 
I'LL DO ANYTHING! for 1 or 2 GAs party.
Book (McGhee, 6th ed.) Blue-
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$##$#$#$#$# to B.C. Lisa 284-5080. •Raffle Winners: If found, contact Matt at 277-8178. 
CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED 2 BYU Vince Casingal, Rob Eng, Midterms are coming! 
2 NAVY GAs for sale. GA's. Please call Katherine 284-Chris Buckingham, Hegh-Jun Ju, I NEED NO FOOTBALL 2 sets married st tixs 277-6894 4435. Chris Ewart, and Ted Gilchrist.
lost: blue jean jacket with green 
TICKETS.272-6306 Call JACK at 283-1747 • Thanks to all golfers & caddies! •collar and flannel liner I NEED PSU GA'S please call Pat 272-8115 
#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$# $$$$$$$$$$ MEGAN 4222 Awesome, intelligent, sincere, Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE HELP!!! and good looking need of Penn State GA's ..... NEED 2 PENN. ST. GA's I NEED 1 GA BYU STUD TICKET FOR SALE 
WANTED 
271-0742 lv message w/price FOR BYU X2529 Call Ann 284-5241 Enough about me. 
ALASKA SUMMER 
NEED 10 PENN ST GAs TIM x2763 NEED 2 BYU GA's By the way, EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn 
BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071 $$$$$$$$$$ Call Lyn 283-4551 happy 22nd birthday, Hei Sun/ $5000+/month. Free transportation! 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam Room & Board! Over 8000 
x4842 FOR SALE! ......BYU'PENN STATE'BC...... 
openings. No experience 
1-2 stu. tix NO Alum will pay good price for 4 FOR SALE: 2 stud tix books for all Seriousely,l really want you to necessary. Male or Female. For Need One Ticket For Boston sect. 34 row 18 BYU GA tix. Call (708) 359-2727 remaining games. Will sell all have a great birthday and good employment program call Student College!!! Call273-2967!!! 234-7667 Mon-Fri 9-5. Ask for Mitch. together or each game. luck in the entrance exam. 
Employment Services at 1-206-545­
Lv. offer X3346 Lee or Levell 
, 
4155 ext. A5584. 
Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and No one understands how important To Hei Sun 
2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665-1827. WILL PAY $125 it is for me to get: From X Drummer or Bassist 
FOR 2 TX TO PENN ST. DALLAS
Want to PLAY? -1887 
-NEED 2 BYU GA'S­ALUM WANTS TO ASK HIS GA tickets for the BC game. Doctor and teacher will make 
' PERSONAL
~ 
PARENTS ON 1800 MILE TRIP TO FIANCE THE BIG QUESTION dreams for your baby come true. 
WANTED: 2 Best. Coli. GA's and 2 
SEE ONE GAME. WILL PAY UNDER THE DOME! CALL 1-800-Call Digger at x1052 Full-time parenting. Best of the city; Penn St. GA's. If you can help, call PRICE FOR TIX 745-5402 DURING DAY HOURS. Hey Niff summers by the beach. Your baby 
r ALEX x1928. 
CHRIS x1463 rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace NEED 4 GA's FOR BYU GAME. Selling BYU and Penn student AMANDA KAY in winter, and by ocean waves in Fun female looking for a ride back 
,,' WANTED: PERSONAL USE ONLY. 271-9540 tickets. Luis 273-1528 have a wonderful day summer. Art, music, the best 
, 
to NO from Philly-Wilm.-S.N.J. area 
2-4 BYU GA's OR AFTER 7:00 232-3511. ASK education. endless love. Call 
, 
in time for the BYU game ­
Call Marie X3818 FOR BOB. I need 2 BYU GA's. Call Greg OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES Franny or Stephen collect. (212) 
, 
whenever. Will share driving & 
x3460. 369-2597. 
costs. Amy X4012 
NEED 2 BC GA's & 2 PS GA's­ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. JOSH X4107-leave message Need 2 GA's for BC ASAP family can provide financial security, Jenn(Sn)­
, 
SPRING BREAK! Campus Sales 
BYU'BYU'BYU'BYU'BYU'BYU' Call Derek 283-4522 excellent education and wonderful GET UP! GET UP! THE FIRE 
' Reps. Individuals or organizations. 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@ GA'S'GA'S'GA'S'GA'S'GA'S' future for your baby. Please let us ALARM IS GOING OFF!! 
, r High commission, free trip, easy 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S QUICKLY!!! help you in this difficult time. LOVE-Denise & Angel 
, 
work. Call College Travel 1-800­
FOR SALE I NEED 6 BYU GA'S HAVE DAD'S $$$$$$ TO SPEND Confidential and legal. Medical 
998-TRIP. 
FOR SALE TOGETHER CALL MATI AT X3006... expenses paid. Collect any1ime. GREEN TURTLE 
,r 
OR (818) 246-1763 My taco can hadle A LOT of meat, 
, 
Three girls desparately need a ride 
...... NEED BYU GA'S ••••••• probably more than you canWe cannot go to the BYU game, APART 
, 
to Chicago Midway on Friday 
so we are selling our stu tix. Please PAWN BUY SELL TRADE provide-but there's always tomatoes 
October 16 by 7pm. Will help pay 
, 
take advantage our misfortune. PLEASE CALL COLLEEN and lettuce to make up for the small 
tolls and gas. Please call Jill, Carrie, 
, 
Thank you for your help. AT x4528 CALL DAN AT OZARK TRADING POST portion 
or Allison at x4758 or x4721. 
, 
1530 WESTERN AVE. TACO ROSADA 
Mike 283-1161 BYU'BYU'BYU'BYU'BYU'BYU' 283-4499 287-7550 
Need ride 10/16 to NAPERVILLE,IL 
GA'S'GA'S'GA'S'GA'S'GA'S' There's only one day left until we area. Will help with gas -Emily 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@ HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes embark on the most hilarious 6 days 
,' 
x2329 
NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am of our lives. May the tents have no
, 
IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY COLD CALL JENNY 215-265-7346. Eastern Time. Train and jump the holes, may the Smokies have no
, 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our 
BY NOV. 21 AROUND HERE. LET same day. Modern equipment ant snow, may the showers be hot circulars!...Begin NOW!. .. FREE 
ME PAY YOU TO SIT IN THE '''PENN'PENN'PENN'PENN'.. training programs. Licensed (they'd better be, for $2!!), ... 
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 
'J COMFORT OF YOUR ROOM OR ..TICKETS'TICKETS'TICKETS'' Available 2 BC & 2PSU GAs Call instructors. FFI call Skydive 
I 
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
FAVORITE BAR-ALL YOU HAVE 215-641-1154. Hastings (616) 948-2665. and may Camping Doug finally TO DO IS GIVE ME YOUR PENN I NEED become a reality.
I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE 
STATE STUDENT TICKET­4 PENN STATE GA'S SELLING BYU STUD. TICKET STUDENT EMPLOYED BY WHAT A GEAT DEAL!!! FOR MYFOUR BIGGEST CALL ANN 2790 HELP! NEED A RIDE TO TWIN Here's to Tennessee!! 
STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN 
CALL RICH AT x1005 FANS! CITIES-OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY 4 WHE-HEW!! 
PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION 
I need 2 BYU GA's GAS & TOLLS. 284-5157 AND NEED MANAGERS FOR I have 2 50 yd line BYU GAs & CALL Jeanne at will pay! I! x2990 Paul SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. 
2 BC GAs. I'm looking to trade x2645 MOM, PATMAN, JULIE, WILLY, Happy Birthday to Big John, ELKHART. t;IICH. CITY, LAPORTE, 
for any Penn St. GAs. Joe x1395 FOR SALE: 1 BYU STUD. TIX. ZHACK AND JACKIE: who makes lunch on T &TH NILES, THREE 
CALL MIKE x1975 Do You like My Gift To You?? worth eating!!!! 
RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES 
Need 4 G.A. tickets to BYU Game '''PENN'PENN'PENN'PENN''' I Miss You!!! Love, AMY Tip: Next time, separate whites from EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT 
CALL -1851-''TICKETS'TICKETS'TICKETS.. colors! Yay Pinky!
NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. 
I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S Heidi-The Lovely Ladies of Lyons AND WORK HARD. AVG. 
NEED PENN ST. GA'S call Tom 288-1027 Have you gotten any good piggy­
EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800­
NICKX4284 Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call back rides lately? 
543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH. 
1-800-922-BEAR. -Erin 
see CLASS/ page 4 
l 
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
The Observer page 11 

-
WALES CONFERENCE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE Del Greco, Hou. 15-15 9·10 54 42
BASEBALL 
Patrick Division Quarterbacks G. Anderson, Pit. 7·9 10-13 42 37
American League
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div All Com Yde TO tnt Jaeger, Rai. 9-9 9-17 54 36
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Named Don Cooper minor league co-
New Jersey 3 1 0 6 16 13 3-0-0 0-1-0 3-1·0 Kelly, But. 192 118 1636 11 7 Treadwell, Den. 7-7 8·11 44 31
ord1nator. 
Pittsburgh 2 0 2 6 19 14 2-0-1 0-0-1 1-0-1 Moon, Hou. 172 115 1361 12 9 Breech, Cin. 12-12 5-8 41 27
SEATTLE MARINERS-Fired Bill Plummer, manager; Dan
Philadelphia 2 1 1 5 16 15 1-0-0 1-1-1 2-0-1 Krieg, K.C. 149 88 1215 6 3 Carney, S.D. 4-4 6-10 49 22
Warthen, p~tchmg coach; Gene Clines, hitting coach; Marty
NY Rangers 2 1 0 4 12 8 1-0·0 1-1-0 1-1-0 Marino, Mia. 184 110 1331 7 5 Kasay. Sea. 4-4 5-7 40 19
Mart1nez, third-base coach; Rusty Kuntz, first-base coach; Russ
Washington 1 3 0 2 12 17 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-3-0 O'Donnell, Pit. 142 83 1088 4 3
Nlx~n, bench coach; and Roger Hansen, bullpen coach.
NY Islanders 0 2 1 1 9 14 0-0-0 0-2-t 0-2-0 Marinovich, Rai. 129 70 960 4 6
Nat10nal League Punt Returns
Adome Division Millen, N.E. 159 102 972 6 10
CHICAGO CUBS-Named Jimmy Bank traveling secretary and No Ydo Avg LG TO
Quebec 3 0 0 6 20 9 2-0-0 1-0-0 2-0-0 Nagle, NY-J 154 75 980 4 4
Sco.n Nelson director of player development administration. Pickens, Cin. 7 157 22.4 95 1
Boston 2 0 1 5 12 8 2-0-1 0-0-0 2-0-0 Elway, Den. 153 80 1012 4 6
Ass1gned Jeff Hartstock, pitcher, and Elvin Paulino, first baseman, Marshall, Den. 12 170 14.2 47 0
Buffalo 2 2 0 4 22 15 1-1-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 Stouffer. Sea. 127 61 591 2 3
to Iowa of the American Association. Hale, Bul. 14 175 12.5 27 0Montreal 1 2 1 3 13 17 0-0-1 1-2-0 1-2-0 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Named Tim Flannery roving minor Carter, K.C. 13 158 12.2 46 1Ollawa 1 2 0 2 10 18 1-0-0 0-2-0 1-2·0 Rushers league Instructor and manager of Spokane of the Northwest Brown. Rai. 14 163 11.6 40 0
Hartford 0 4 0 0 7 19 0-2-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 All Yds Avg LG TO
League. 
Miller, Mia. 7 75 10.7 19 0CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Foster, P~. 116 534 4.6 69 3
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Sent Francisco Oliveras and Jim Woodson, P~. 9 96 10.7 46 0
Norrie Division White, Hou. 87 453 5.2 44 1
Myers, pitchers, and Jim McNamara, catcher, outright to Phoenix of Metcalf, Cle. 11 92 8.4 19 0
w L T Pte GF GA Home Away Div T. Thomas, Buf. 100 435 4.4 31 5
the Pacific Coast League. Announced Oliveras refused assign-Hicks, Buf. 8 59 7.4 22 0
Tampa Bay 2 1 1 5 14 10 1-0·0 1· 1-1 2-1-1 Word, K.C. 101 406 4.0 25 2
ment and became a free agent. McNamara becomes a six-year Bieniemy, S.D. 22 t56 7.1 21 0
Detroit 2 1 0 4 12 10 0-0-0 2-1·0 0-0-0 Green, Cin. 84 378 4.5 52 1
mmor league free agent.
Minnesota 2 2 0 4 14 13 2· 1-0 0-1-0 2· 1-0 Warren, Sea. 83 361 4.3 52 1
BASKETBALL Kickoff Returners
Chicago 1 1 1 3 10 11 0-0-1 1-1-0 1-1-1 Higgs, Mia. 97 350 3.6 20 4
National Basketball Aaaociation NO Yda Avg LG TO
St. Louis 1 3 0 2 9 14 1-2-0 0-1·0 1-3-0 Thomas, NY-J 68 296 4.4 17 0
NEW JERSEY NETS-Signed Chris Morris, forward, to a three· Vaughn, N.E. 10 259 25.9 59 0
Toronto 0 2 1 1 10 12 0-1-0 0-1-1 0-0-0 Bernstine, S.D. 60 289 4.8 19 1
year contract. 
Baldwin, Cle. 11 265 24.1 47 0Smythe Division Dickerson, Ral. 78 281 3.6 40! 1
WASHINGTON BULLETS-Signed Don Maclean. forward, to a McMillan, NY-J 10 235 23.5 45 0Vancouver 3 0 0 6 18 7 2-0-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 mutt1year contract. Waived Rudy Archer. guard, and Derek Strong Craver, Mia. 7 159 22.7 44 0Calgary 3 1 0 6 18 12 2-1-0 1-0-0 1-1-0 Receiversand Cra1g Upchurch, forwards. C. Harris, Hou. 10 206 20.6 42 0
Los Angeles 3 1 0 6 16 13 2-1-0 1-0-0 3-0-0 No Yde Avg LG TO
Continental Basketball Association Montgomery, Den.8 162 20.3 28 0
San Jose 1 2 0 2 8 11 1· 1-0 0-1-0 1-1-0 Reed, Buf. 38 597 15.7 51 2
COLUMBUS HORIZON-Signed Ronald Rutland, guard. Stone, Pit. 8 153 19.1 28 0
Winnipeg 1 3 0 2 11 19 1-0-0 0-3·0 0-3-0 Jeffires, Hou. 38 419 11.0 47 5
FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Kelvin Upshaw, guard, and Bieniemy, S.D. 14 257 18.4 30 0
Edmonton 0 3 1 1 11 20 0-1-1 0-2-0 0-3-0 Graham, Pn. 27 421 15.6 51 1
Andre Patterson, forward. Verdin, Ind. 9 165 18.3 33 0
Tueeday'o Games Duncan, Hou. 27 347 12.9 33 0
QUAD CITY THUNDER-Signed Tony Smith guard. Warren, Sea. 16 289 18.1 33 0
Pittsburgh 6, Buffalo 5 Fryar, N.E. 26 397 15.3 39 3
FOOTBALL ' Quebec 6, Philadelphia 3 Sharpe, Den. 25 313 12.5 55 1
National Football League Scoring
Tampa Bay 2, St. Louis 1 Lofton, But. 24 364 15.2 50 2
DALLAS COWBOYS-Traded Alexander Wright, wide receiver, Touchdowns
Calgary 4, Minnesota 3 T. Thomas, Buf. 23 293 12.7 43 2
to the Los Angeles Raiders for an undisclosed 1993 draft choice. TO Rush Rec Ret Pte
Los Angeles 2, San Jose 1 Williams, Sea. 23 152 6.6 20 0
DENVER BRONCOS-Waived Jeff Alexander, running back. T. Thomas, But. 7 5 2 0 42
Wednesday's Gamea Toon, NY-J 22 252 11.5 32 1
HOUSTON OILERS-Waived Corey Harris, wide receiver. Givins, Hou. 5 0 30
0 5 KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Waived Bill Jones, fullback. Jeffires, Hou. 5 0 5 0 30 Ollawa at Hartford, 7:35p.m. L. Harris, Hou. 22 228 10.4 27 
New Jersey at New York Rangers, 7:35p.m. 
LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Waived Vince Evans, quarterback. Higgs, Mia. 4 4 0 0 24
Edmonton at Winnipeg. 8:35p.m. Punters 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Activated Timm Rosenbach, quarter-Metcalf. Cle. 4 1 3 0 24
Thuredey'e Gomes NO Ydo LG Avg
back, from '"Jured reserve. Claimed Mitchell Price, defensive back-Ball, Cin. 
Montreal at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Stark, Ind. 29 1345 64 46.4 3 2 1 0 18 
kick returner, off waivers from the Cincinnati Bengals. Waived Jim Horan, Den. Birden, K.C. 3 0 3 0 18Quebec at Detro~. 7:35p.m. 37 1681 62 45.4
Wahler, nose guard, and Erik Wilhelm, quarterback. Placed Steve
New York Islanders at Philadelphia. 7:35p.m. Tuten, Sea. 43 1952 65 45.4 Brown, Rai. 3 0 3 0 18 
Lofton, cornerback, on injured reserve. 
Foster, P~. 3 3 0 0 18Tampa Bay at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Hansen, Cle. 29 1276 73 44.0 
. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Traded Reuben Davis, defensive
Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Gossett, RaJ. 24 1038 55 43.3 Fryar, N.E. 3 0 3 0 18
lineman, to the Phoenix Cardinals lor a 1993 third-round draft pick.
Minnesota at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Johnson, Cin. 25 1081 55 43.2 Metzelaars, But. 3 0 3 0 18
WaiVed Todd Harrslon, tight end. 
Boston at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. McCarthy, N.E. 29 1242 59 42.8 Calgary at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Kidd, S.D. 30 1276 65 42.5 Barker, K.C. 32 54
1361 42.5 
CAMPUS MlNrsTRY... 
. .... CoNSIDERATIONS 
destroyed the wall between life and death, then the communion of saints
In the Communion of Saints 
can be a real source of hope and help for us all. 
One time many years ago, Fr. Robert Griffin was preaching in Keenan­The saints inspire us; they give us courage for our lives. I believe they help 
Stanford chapel. He was talking about Jesus, and how in some of the ways us in our lives, if we ask them. I particularly believe that they help us to
we find Jesus presented to us, he might seem distant from our own aspire to be saints ourselves. Lots of Christians will say they want to be 
experience. He was acknowledging that, depending upon the state of our 'saved.' Yet that always sounds to me like someone just wants to barely 
own souls, it can sometimes seem hard to relate to this God made human, sneak inside the pearly gates. Christian tradition has always called God's 
who never sinned. 
people to be 'saints,' people fully taken over by the love and 
service of God and of God's people. Let's be saints. 
Griff said that if at times it seemed difficult for us college students to use 
Jesus as the model for our lives, then we should at least start moving in the In the celebration of the Eucharist, time and eternity 
right direction by drawing inspiration from some strong witnesses closer to intersect. Jesus the Christ is revealed present amongst 
home. He suggested Tom Dooley as an example. He suggested that in God's people. And with Christ, in Christ, all the holy
reflecting upon the life of this great Notre Dame alum, whose passion and men and women join in praise of God. That is the
committment to the alleviation of suffering where so very clear, we might privileged moment when we can be in union with all who 
begin to find inspiration for our own modern lives and direction for our own have gone before us, all who have died in faith. 
professional aspirations. As a pre-med student at the time, this challenge hit 
me right between the eyes. It also renewed within me a childhood Let us invoke the memory of the saints. May they carry us to a clearer,
fascination with the lives of the saints. deeper union with Jesus. May they give us strength and hope. 
So many great lives have been lived in the power of the Gospel story. So We can use all the help we can get.
many different kinds of personalities and characters have given witness 
through the years to the faithfulness of God's love and the force of God's Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
call. These witnesses can spur us on to a personal desire to live from the same power and follow the same unending call. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS SUNDAY
The Church never declared Tom Dooley an official saint, but I came to realize that he could be one for me, if I let him. 
OcTOBER 18, 1992 
Years later, as a brand new priest, the strongest experience of my first years 
1sT Reading EXODUS 17, 8-13 
was when 1was called to go through the last painful months of life with several great women struck down by cancer. I couldn't believe their courage, 
2ND Reading 2 TIMOTifX 3, 14-4, 2 
I couldn't forgive God for the suffering they were going through, I couldn't understand why life had to end so tragically. Yet happily, those several ospel LUKE 18, 1-8 women had more faith than I did, and they told me again and again about their sense of closeness to God and their trust in God's promises. When I later prayed at their funerals, I experienced their ongoing presence in our gathered community, and I knew that they were with us. It was a personal revelation. Their death had not destroyed their spirit, nor their power to 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR NEXT SUNDAY 
continue to inspire us in our lives. They too had become saints for me. 
OCTOBER 25, 1992 
Through the years I have talked to those women constantly, calling to them 
1sT Reading SIRACH 35, 12-14. 16-18
for help and guidance, drawing strength from the experience of their 
. 
closeness and their care. I actually think many people do similar things. 
ND Reading 2 TIMOTHY 4, 6-8. 16-18 
Plenty of widows and widowers have told me they feel the closeness of their spouses, and count on their help. Traditjonal African cultures speak of the 
Gospel LUKE 18, 9-14 
'living dead' and know that as long as we remember those who have died, they still are in our lives. Professor Morton Kelsey used to say that unless you believe in spirits, you can't have a spiritual life. If Jesus' resurrection has 

page 12 The Observer Thursday, October 15, 1992 
-
Alumni advances to soccer finals 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 
The men's interhall soccer championship game has been postponed until after midsemester break after some controversy surrounding the playoffs arose on Monday. 
Zahm A was forced to forfeit its semifinal victory over Carroll after a RecSport protest board consisting of five hall athletic commissioners ruled yesterday that they had used ineligible players in that contest. Zahm A had narrowly beaten Carrol on Sunday in a 5-4 penalty kick shootout after a scoreless game. 
However, Carroll filed a protest Monday claiming that two Zahm A players had played in a game for Zahm B earlier in the season, making them ineligible for the remainder of the season. According to RecSport rules, an individual may play for only one team during the course of the season. 
The board met yesterday afternoon at 4pm in the Athletic Department Conference Room 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271~7414. 
The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6~8 p.m. in Rockne 219~ Everyone is welcome. 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice times have changed. The club will now meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 
7:30 p.m. in the Fencing Gym at Gate 4 of the JACC. If you have questions, call Tim Kalamaros at 277~6797. 
SMC varsity basketball open gym will last only three more days on October 26, 27 and 29 from 8-10 p.m. Everyone is strongly encouraged to attend. 
ND/SMC sailing club will be having a yearbook picture on October 15 at 4 p.m. at the boathouse. It is cancelled if it is raining. Ifyou have questions, call Rudy Bryce at 283~4208. 

! 
f
' 
r 
~ 
, ~ 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle?
~ 
Kaplan prepcourses help students raise their scores 
~ 
and their chances of 
~ 
beingadmihed into their 
~ 
first-choice schools. Fact
• 
is. noone has helped 
students score higher! 
, ~ 
t 
,r 
I 
, 
, ~ 1717 E. South Bend Avenue South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135
,~ 
' 
I
' 
I I' I STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
I 'Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances I I I 
I 
t 
at the J.A.C.C. The captains of both Carrol and Zahm stated their cases to the board before a unanimous vote of 5-0 de­termined that Carrollwill play for the championship after the break. 
· The controversy surrounding this Carrol vs. Zahm A semifinal game could not overshadow the excitement of the other semifinal contest between Alumni and Cavanaugh. De­fending champion Alumni ad­vanced to the final by defeating Cavanaugh in what proved to be the most exciting game of this year's playoffs. 
In a rematch of last year's championship game, Alumni prevailed again, this time need­ing a lengthy penalty kick shootout after two 25-minute halves and two 5-minute over­times of scoreless soccer. 
Alumni's defense, led by Tony Szweda, is used to holding teams scoreless, having shut out every opponent its faced this year. However, a strong Cavanaugh defense denied all of Alumni's attacks on goal, forcing a nerve-racking shootout. In the shootout, each team converted four of their first five penalty kicks, pushing the game into sudden death kicks. For the next eight Alumni kickers, each successful attempt was matched by Ca­vanaugh, while their only two misses were each followed by Cavanaugh misses. Finally, Alumni's 13th kicker of the game, Bill Sarabaugh, con­verted and goalie Joe Finnerty saved Cavanaugh's next kick, giving Alumni the victory. 

With such strong momentum from a successful season and playoff run, Alumni had hoped to take home a second consecu­tive championship on Tuesday. But they learned on Tuesday of Carroll's protest, and must now stay motivated to make a run for the title after the break. 
"We were really disap­pointed," said Alumni captain Volker Blankenstein, "We were ready to play." 
Women's soccer crushes Wildcats 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The Kentucky Wildcats got a glimpse of where they want to be, as the first year program fell to the 15th-ranked Notre Dame's women's soccer team 9­0 at Alumni Field. 
Coach Chris Petrucelli has his Irish streaking as they notched their fifth shutout of the year. 
Junior forward Alison Lester started the goal parade less than three minutes into the game on a pass from fellow forward Jodi Hartwig. Five minutes later, freshman Rosella Guerrero took a pass from Tiffany Thompson and pushed the Notre Dame lead to 2-0. 
Before the first half ended, Lester added another goal and Thompson hit the net an an unassisted shot 30 minutes into the game. 
The second half was more of the same. Freshman Michelle McCarthy scored minutes into the half, and her goal was fol­lowed by Guerrero's second. Lester completed her hat trick five minutes later. 
Senior captain Margaret Jarc knotted the game's eighth goal on a pass from Tonya Macioce, followed by Stephanie Porter's second goal of the year, which completed the scoring. 
Petrucelli down-played the upcoming matchup with SMU but was excited about his team 

.100% Students! -Swimming Pool! -Hot Tub! 
Look us over-
You'll call Campus View HOME 
Campus View Apartments 54585 Irish Way South Bend, Indiana 46637 Campus View (219) 272-1441 Apartments Office Hours M-F 9am-5pm 
-Sand Volleyball ! _. Basketball Court! _. Tennis Court! 
........'Nuff Said. 
opportunity to focus solely on soccer. 
"It's been a rough couple of weeks with midterms," he said. "We've had girls playing games after staying up all night studying. It's a big relief to be able to just concentrate on soc­cer." 
r:, ~ ,fA~ 
~ ~ 6-;j ~~-1-f" \ ~:::-lb~~~ F 
"'b:lb('o• rom ~~~ West of Here 
Playing Tonight 
1 mile east of campus 

Thursday, October 15, 1992 
Braves stun Pirates with 3-run rally in ninth 
ATLANTA {AP) -A heart­stopping, ninth-inning come­back ended with another World Series for the Atlanta Braves and another fall failure for the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
The Braves, in a wild rally that ended with a play at the plate, beat the Pirates 3-2 Wednesday night to reach the World Series for the second straight year. The stunning loss gave Pittsburgh its third straight postseason failure. 
And this was the most painful of all. 
The Pirates were three outs away from their first World Series since 1979, but Doug Drabek, who pitched out of a bases-loaded jam in the sixth and stranded two runners in the seventh, didn't have one more escape act in him. 
Terry Pendleton, only 1 for 21 in the series left-handed, dou­bled to right field. Drabek, pitching on three days' rest for only the second time in four years, was wearing down and so was the Pirates' defense. 
David Justice hit a routine grounder, but second baseman Jose Lind, who made only six errors all season, booted the ball and two were on. The crowd, almost resigned to de­feat a few minutes earlier, was standing and chopping. 
Sid Bream, the former Pirate, walked and Drabek, his control gone, was finished and the Pi­rates were forced to go to a bullpen that had been ineffec­tive all year. 
Pirates manager Jim Leyland went to Stan Belinda, who led the team with 18 saves but had lost his job as a closer late in the season and had just three saves in the second half of the season. 
Belinda quickly showed why. 
Ron Gant almost won it with a drive to left that Barry Bonds caught two feet in front of the wall, scoring Pendleton and making it 2-1. 
Then Damon Berryhill walked and the bases were loaded again. The Pirates were an out away when pinch-hitter Brian Hunter popped out and Braves manager Bobby Cox, his bench almost exhausted, sent up Francisco Cabrera. 
Cabrera had homered in his only previous at-bat against Be­linda, but he didn't homer this time. He didn't need to. 
Cabrera lined a shot between third and shortstop to score Justice and Bream, the slowest runner on the Braves, barely beat Bonds' desperation throw to the plate that was well off­line. 
A good throw would have had the runner. Instead, it sets up a World Series against the Toronto Blue Jays, a team that finally managed to win the big one after years of frustration by beating the Oakland Athletics 9­2 on Wednesday. 
The Braves, who lost the Series to Minnesota in the 1Oth inning of the seventh game last year, will be trying to reverse that disappointment. 

toTM er 
The · e Dame men's soc· .cer g last mght at Loyola 'W~S. s:UsP~nded because of lightning With 20:49 left in the gatne~ The game was dead• locked at 2~? atthat point, and thecMCC· wlll decide where, when, and· if the rest of tb,e game will be playedc ·· 
Slta'Wn Bry~e~ and Kevin ·Pendergas(seored tb,e goals .·(qr...tbe..ijish: 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 239-5303 orI1 284-5440 for more inf0rmation. 
Come back on the right foot .... Star! the BYU weekend with a Bang! 
.¥15 \Vomen1s Soccer vs LaSalle Alumni Field 
5:00pm 
l\fen1s Soccer ,.s BYU Alumni Field 
7:30pm*
if;-/ 
*Free seat cushions t•• fi;·st J(j'J{Jfans and Free hot chocolate to all '=Ol.tpliments of General Foods 
The Observer page 13 
-

CCHA 
continued from page 14 
Lake Superior State, visit the JACC for a weekend series on October 30 and 31. While the Lakers return 19 lettermen, they only return five of their top 10 scorers from last season. The Lakers will look to sophomore sensation Brian Rolston, who racked-up 46 points (18-28) at center in his freshman season, and junior center Clayton Beddoes, who tallied 44 pts. (16-28) last year. Despite their losses, the Lakers will certainly give their oppo­nents all they can handle. 
The following weekend, Nov. 6 and 7, the Irish go to Oxford, Ohio for a weekend series against Miami of Ohio, a team that finished 5th in the CCHA last year. 
On Nov. 13 and 14. the Irish host the University of Illinois-Chicago, a team that looks to improve on its 10-20-6 overall record in 91-92, good for 7th place in the CCHA. Head coach Larry Pedrie enters his third season with the Flames of UIC, hoping that his 10 freshman from last year will use their experience to jump up the CCHA ladder. The Flames will look to sophomore goalie Jon Hillebrandt to anchor their defense, with last year's leading scorer, Chris MacDonald (38 pts., 11-27) leading the offensive charge. 
On Nov. 20 and 21. the Irish face-off against the Broncos of Western Michigan in a home and away series. The Broncos (16-14-6 overall in 91-92) fin­ished 4th in the CCHA last year, and they will feature a core of veterans, lead by senior center Pat Fershweiler (40 pts., 8-32) and junior winger Colin Ward 
Cashier's Office 
106 Administration Bldg. 
is now open 9 a.m.-4:30p.m. 
!=~~!==~~~~===~!==!~!!!!-Rapids, Ml to play the Bulldogs 
.cs and the DI'ceman...
Aerobl Quite aPackage on his 2lg! 

Peace Ou~ The Baby Boyz 
(39 pts., 25-14). 
The Spartans of Michigan State visit the JACC on Nov. 27th for one game, a team that finished 3rd in the CCHA last year and recorded a 25-11-8 overall record. MSU returns 20 lettermen this season, among them senior center Brian Smolinski (65 pts., 30-35). sophomore center Steve Suk (52 pts., 11-41), and sophomore winger Rem Murray (51 pts., 13-38). The Spartans will again challenge for the top spot in the league, benefitting from their trip to the Final Four last year. 
The Irish travel to Ohio State on Dec. 11 to face the Buckeyes, a team that frnished 8th in the CCHA in 91-92. Ohio State added freshman John B. Graham, a 209 lb. right wing, to their line-up during the off­season, a player that received much acclaim in the British Columbia Junior Hockey League. The Buckeyes, how­ever, lost stand-out goalie Mike Bales to the Boston Bruins during the off-season, but somehow Ohio State still re­mains hopeful for success this season. 
On Dec. 12, the Irish travel to Bowling Green for one game against the Falcons of Bowling Green State. The Falcons fin­ished in the cellar of the CCHA last year with an overall record of 8-21-5. Bowling Green re­turns 16 lettermen, including senior center Brett Harkins, who tallied 4 7 points (8-39) last season and goalies Will Clarke and Angelo Libertucci, who split time in goal for the Falcons last year. 
The Irish then travel to Big 
of Ferris State on Jan. 30. The 
Bulldogs finished with an over­
all record of 13-18-7, and fin­ished 6th in the CCHA. Ferris State returns 18 lettermen, but lost 5 of their top 8 scorers. 

' 
•Opens at 3 p.m. 
1 mile east of campus 
page 14 The Observer October 15, 1992 
-Notre Dame hockey to battle in new frontier 
By JIM VOGL repay." "Once we start playing CCHA After being named MVP in his Membership in the CCHA has Assistant Sports Editor Indeed they do. teams game in game out, the freshman season averaging just its priveleges, including recruit­Notre Dame stumbled to a 2-more confidence we'll get. We 4.11 goals allowed, his average ing pull. 
The Fighting Irish hockey 10 record against CCHA mem­know we can play with them. slumped to an even 5, including Notre Dame's recruiting ef­team waits like a courageous, bers last season in a prelude We just need to get the first one ten goals each for two CCHA forts yielded perhaps the best armed soldier hungry for bat­joining the conference this sea­under our belt." foes, Michigan and Illinois­freshmen class to skate at the tle. son. "The won-loss record was Last year's Notre Dame squad Chicago. JACC. They even broke into the 
But they'll be facing a fleet of not great, but the lessons we achieved the ultimate in medi­Leadership emanates from banks of the Great White North, tanks. learned were well worth it," ocrity outside the CCHA with a junior captain-elect Matt landing left wing Chris Bales 
Being reinstated into the Carroll assured. "The experi­9-9-1 mark. Osiecki, a defenseman who also (Midland, Ont.), and de­Central Collegiate Hockey ence should pay great dividens "We've got some proven of­captained his hockey and foot­fenseman Davide Dal Grande League this season, the Irish this year." fensive scorers along with a ball teams at Burhsville High (Nepean, Ont.). The NHL pur­should take their bumps and Besides the experience play­proven goalie," said Carroll, School in Minnesota. sued two of Notre Dame's rook­bruises. But they expect to ing a number of CCHA caliber who looks forward to a full sea­"Since his freshman year he ies, Dal Grande (New York come out alive. games, and besides a bumper son with the services of center has shown his discipline and Rangers, sixth round) and Wade 
"We've been waiting for this crop of ultra-talented freshmen, David Bankoske and Louder. composure, a quiet dignity as a Salzman. for a long time," says junior one other thing separates this Bankoske, a senior, missed sportsman and a competitor, an "It's an excellent group of goalie Greg Louder. "We're very year's Irish from last the entire '91-92 season with a insistent effort and a devotion freshmen," boasts Carroll. "We anxious to jump in and play the year's-attitude. broken arm after leading the to an old-fashioned work ethic," look for them to step in and top teems every weekend. "Everybody knew the com­Irish in scoring the previous hails head coach Ric Schafer. play key roles right away. Some We're just going to make the petition facing us this year. season. Last year, Curtis Jan­"He is the type of player who have worked themselves into best of it." We've never had that kind of icke picked up the slack with a tends to infect other members the lineup already, and in some 
"We're not just trying to be work ethic in practice (that team-high 12 goals and 38 as­with his many virtues." places, displaced veterans." competitive. We're going to be started two weeks ago). The sists. Senior Dan Sawyer (31 Adds Carrrol: "It will be in­prepared to win every game, " pacing, the intensity-! can def­Louder missed the first half of games, 7 goals. 13 assists) and teresting to see how the fresh­says assistant coach Tom Car­initely see it on the ice in the last season and never caught up junior Eric Gregoire shore up men step in and adjust to the roll. "We've got some debts to preseason." to the rest of the competition. the rest of the blue line. college level." 
Bankoske just happy to be back 
By MARK MCGRATH the best," added Bankoske. "In and the freshmen to provide the Sports Writer the past, we (Notre Dame) have sparks." not had the opportunity to do As for his personal goals, 
Notre Dame hockey player this." Bankoske does not have any Dave Bankoske is anxious to Bankoske sees this year in a specific goals. After leading the start the season. different light due to his injury. Irish in scoring his first three 
"It is an exciting time to be "It's different because it has years he knows expectations part of this team," said been two years since I played will be high, but his main goal Bankoske. hockey at a competitive level. It is to help the team win. 
Despite this enthusiasm, last takes a while to get read­"I will be satisfied if I perform year was a different story. Be­justed-both to the speed and well but I would like to prove 
cause of an injury, Bankoske the level of play." that I can be among the scoring missed the season and was al­As for the Notre Dame team leaders in the country. How­lowed to return for a fifth year. and what the move to the CCHA ever, it is more important that 
Bankoske recalls how painful means to the players, Bankoske our team works hard to win as it was to sit in the stands, not feels the move is a definite many games as possible." being able to contribute to the benefit. As the Irish prepare for their 
team. "We have something to focus season opener Saturday against 
"It was very frustrating to sit on now. In the past, we played the number-one ranked up in the stands and know that as an independent so we just Michigan Wolverines, Bankoske I could have contributed," played games. Now, we play in hopes that Irish fans will commented Bankoske. "At first the toughest conference. As a support the team this year even I did not take it too well but as result of the move, the level of more because of the move to time passed it became easier. I competition has increased and the CCHA. think it was a mixed blessing so has the intensity on this because now I have the oppor­team." "We need the students to tunity to play against the best in This year presents a new support us in order for us to the nation." challenge for the Irish. With the make a move into the top 
Bankoske is referring to the loss of many prominent players eschelon of teams." fact that Notre Dame has be­to graduation, the team must come a member of the CCHA, pick up the slack and Bankoske With the move to the CCHA, one of the best conferences in feels differently than he has in Irish hockey fans will be seeing the country. the past. the best teams in the nation 
"For me personally, the move "I really feel like a freshman week in and week out and the (to the CCHA) allows me to again. However, this time it's team hopes that fan support show that I can compete with up to me to provide guidance will continue to increase. 
By ANDREW ILIFF not only the fact that the CCHA David Oliver with 58 points (31 Sports Writer sent three teams to the Final goals -27 assists), and junior Four last year, but that over the center Brian Wiseman, with 71 
For Irish hockey fans, the last nine years, the CCHA has pts.(27 -44). Also, Steve Shields, 1992-93 season stands as a had four national champions; a junior from North Bay, turning point for the Notre Lake Superior State in 1988 Ontario, returns to tend goal. Dame hockey program in their and 1992, Michigan State in Shields recorded a solid 2.84 bid to return to the top of the 1986, and Bowling Green in goals against average (GAA) in college ranks. 1984. 91-92. 
Starting with an October "The Road to the Joe," the This year, the CCHA ranks 17th contest against Michigan name given to the post-season grow to 12 teams, with the ad­at the Yost Ice Arena in Ann tournament held at the Joe dition of the Irish and Kent Arbor, the Irish will compete in Louis Arena in Detroit, is a State, with teams scheduled to 

the Central Collegiate Hockey tournament that carries along play 3 games against each Association (CCHA), one of the with it an automatic bid into the member. The Alaska-Fairbanks top college hockey conferences, NCAA Tournament (held this Nanooks have been added as an along with the Western Colle­year at the Bradley Center in affiliate member, eligible only giate Hockey Association Milwaukee). For the Irish, his for the post-season tournament. (WCHA), the Eastern Collegiate road starts with the October On October 23 and 24, the Athletic Conference (ECAC), and 17th match-up against the Irish travel to Kent, Ohio for a Hockey East. Wolverines. two-game series against the 
The CCHA certain held its This will serve as an initia­Golden Flashes of Kent State. own among the collegiate tion into the demanding CCHA While they represent the Irish's hockey ranks last season, send­conference schedule, as many best chance for victories in the ing three teams to the NCAA regard Michigan one of the top 92-93 season, the Flashes have
MICHIGAN" ' · · 
at Lake StJp~l'iriistate• Hockey Final Four with Michi­teams in the country this year. a lot of young talent. Kent atFerl'i$ Sl$t~·.•·.· gan, Michigan State, and Lake Ohio State head coach Jerry returns 90% of its scoring from it'Micht~;;r st8ie••·' Superior State all making the Walsh said of the Wolverines, a team that went 15-14-2, and FERRIS STATE~< . · trip to Buffalo. WHCA jugger­"Michigan returns the most the Flashes hope to get a boost at Bowling Green• · naut Wisconsin rounded out the strength, they have to be the from forward Sam Thornbury,
FERRIS STATE-... ·...,,. 
Final Four last year, falling to odds-on favorite." who recorded 42 points (17 -25) 
atWeatem Michigan~ 
Lake Superior State 4-2 in the The Wolverines return 18 of in 90-91, but sat out last year
•~,,Michigan~·····•· }·•••••.·, 
championship game. 22 lettermen from a team that with a shoulder injury.
.. 
· 4 BOWUNG GREEN" 
CCHA Director of Communi­finished atop the CCHA last The following week, things
.·,,.·,·.. >6 '·at Michigan State• 12-14 at CCHA Playoffs cations, Jeff Weiss, "Would like season and a 32-9-3 overall do not get any easier as the de­19-21 at. CCHA Playoffs to think that the CCHA is the record. More importantly, they fending national champions, 
·ccHAtonte~t .•••••·•••·····.,...•.••,...• premier college hockey confer­return 7 of their top 10 scorers, 
#at the Palace in AUburn Hills, MI ..•. ,••,••.•. ence right now," pointing out including junior right winger see CCHA!page 13 
Today II. 

Thursday, October 15, 1992 BEAT THIS CLOCK page 15 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I'tn gonM pou~ '(OU in 9yrn cl~ss, Twin\<.'{. 

CROSSWORD 
JAY HOSLER 
! MUS I APPRoACH CAPi.fOW{! TH£Y MAY 6£ BI21\RRc 
r1llfANT C'(BDR6tS fROM lll£ ftJTURE. SE.NI ON MY SYSTGM/tflC. --­VIVIS€CTION. 
BILL WATIERSON 

til~ B~\N WI'S\-\£.5 M~ EGO
~ '1EA" ~ I't> Ut<E 
1-\t>.O CALL-WI\\T\~G.
TO SG "(OJ TRY lT.' 
\ 
". 
1 'I . 
f0-.t_
\1 ,.....­
~ 
A --. 

1R!IIII,. IO·IS 
ACROSS 31 German 64"Last-to reservoir Brooklyn":
1 Not nude 33 Bock kin Selbys Historic sewer 
66 Smash inward 9What 
34 Firefighters' 
activity &7 Artery for Yarborough 
Artemidorus
39Thatis­
holders do 
68-quanon42 In medias­
13 Guipure, e.g. 
&9 Misanthrope43 The O'Grady 
14 Kelt and James 70 Execrate
girl
16 Mystical mark 71 Mullins
44 Small units of 17 Turpitude contemporaryweight 72 Bears' lairs 
18 Wild goose 47 Amatol 73 Wheeling's river 19 School Orwell ingredient 
attended 48 Original site of 20 Not off the rack U. of Nevada DOWN 23 Aurora, to 49Smocks 
1 Skelton's Aristotle 52 Tabard or Kadiddlehopper24 Minor minor Mermaid 2 Kilauea output 25 Singer McEntire 54 Sky sightings 
3 Etcher's need 26 Salt Lake City 57 Unite 
4 Strike out 
athlete 58 Uproar 
s Rear walls of 27 Put a bid in 59 Corny 
jai-alai courts 6 Another, in Avila 7 Bart or Brenda ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Three-time Derby-winning jockey 

9Grand-, 28lceraft Acadia 
290bscene 
30 Black tern 10 Believers in film 
directors' full 32 Ike's command control 35 Cachar, e.g. 
11 High-hat 12 Kinesthesia, e.g. 
36 Mil. group at Parris Island 

15 Soprano from 37 Ennead
W.Va. 21M. Anderson's 
380btains "High -" 
40 Expanse west of 
Eur. defense 41 Li'l Abner­27lmprecatory 45 Children's card remark game 
22 Fence for 

46Some 55 Series of eight lumbermen 
56 Emulate K. Witt 50 Hebrew letter 
60 Level 
51 M. Martin 61 Where Young musical: 1966 grew old 
52 That is: Lat. 62 Trucking rig 63 Pianist Balogh 
53 Undeliverable piece of mail 65 Half a score 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Cornelius! I've been watching him! ... Beware of the jawbone!" 
DOMINO'S PIZZA  
Today's Soecial: The time youEXTRA LARGE 15" 1 topping 5-7 p.m. call is the price 2 EXTRA LARGE 10 p.m.-12 a.m. you pay. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any Call Now other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. OurND 271,0300 drivers carry less chan $20. Our drivers are nor penalized for lcice deliveries.SMC 289,0033 © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.  


MENU  
Saint Mary'sPasta Bar Southwest Bar Basted Turkey  ·  Notre Dame Lemon Pepper Catfish Gyros Meat Ravioli  
LECTURES  

Thursday 
12:15 p.m. "A Celebration-1492 New World: 1992 One World," Lecture: "Reflections From a Native American Perspective, "Sarah Fisko '93. Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Office of Campus Ministry, Saint Mary's College. 
CAMPUS 
Thursday 
7:30 p.m. The African Video Series: "Anatomy of a Continent" and "The Triple Heritage of Lifestyles," .Ali Mazuri. Room 107, Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. Admission Free. Sponsored by Mrican Student Association. 

From The Whole Student Union Board..... 
\
have a GREAT BREAK.•• 
' 
and when you return, lool< out! 
MOVIES: THURSDAY, OCT. 29-THE BUTCHER•s WIFE FRIDAY, OCT 30 AND SATURDAY, OCT 31-THE ADDAM•s FAMILY 

S11JDENT UNION BOAIID 
.T .. 

Sports 
I r r 
r 
I I I I 
I r I 
~ 
I 
f 
I 
' ~ ~ 
' 
t 
~ 
' 
' 
I, 
p 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
I 
f 
~ 
r 
' 
' 
~ 
, 
page 16 

JONATHAN JENSEN 
Game Point 
Some interesting thoughts for all seasons 
Just a few thoughts to ponder, laugh or sneer at as the baseball season draws to a close and the real sports year kicks in. 
•But 
really, despite a summer of baseball that invited comparisons to War and Peace and my Social Psychology class last year, games like last night's have infused some excitement into fans like me that root for teams like the Cubs and Yankees. Stop that snickering! 

•The 
college football drive for #l(Or at least a share of it) is winding down and I'm sure we're all looking forward to seeing the Irish take on the Nittany Lions for the first time at Notre Dame stadium since the debacle in 1990. This is a team that Coach Holtz says might be the best in the nation, at least on film. After seeing the Lion offense, led by an inept John Sacca and Joe Pa­terno's brown paper bag offense, sputter and wheeze last Saturday, I would guess that Holtz is just gearing up for his weekly "We are not very good, they are outstanding" speech a little early for the big game. 

•This 
weekend could be a pivotal one in the NFL, as two of the four best teams in the league tangle under God's peekhole in Texas Stadium in Dallas on Sunday. You know, I wonder how many football fans would be willing to bet the house that the Super Bowl is won by one of these four teams: Dallas, Philly, Kansas City, and Miami, although the Dolphins schedule has been helpful this season(The Irish could go undefeated in a division with teams like Indianapolis, the Jets, and the perennial Patsies). By the way, I'll take that bet. 

•Being 
a Chicagoan ... pork chops...! would be remiss not to mention the off­season...bratwurst... moves this year's World Champion Bulls made to solidify their lofty perch on top of the NBA. Picking up veteran...nachos...forward Rodney McCray and bolstering their already solid backcourt with sharpshooter Trent Tucker leaves just one... polish sausage...roster spot and one ring finger left. Incidently, if you haven't heard, that spot is soon to be gobbled up by our own Keith Tower, who is one of 12 finalists for the spot. I can just imagine those patented 15-foot skyhooks raining down to the cheers of the raucous Chicago Stadium fans. Stranger things have happened. Anybody hungry? 

•There's 
only one sport left. .. oh, uh... hockey. I think the only game I want to see all year is the Irish home opener against defending champ Lake Superior State. But at the risk of being hoarded by the flocks of rabid New Englanders that live and die for hockey on this campus, let me just say that Eric Lindros will certainly add some excitement to an already promising hockey season(Kind of like when we had a "powerful" guest speaker in that Social Psych class). 


INSIDE SPORTS 
• 
Full-page Irish hockey preview see page14 

• 
Braves rally to beat Bucs see page 13 


IIWomen•s soccer whips Wildcats see page12 
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
Rugby club gears up for post-season tourney 

By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
Six years ago, the Notre Dame men's Rugby Club team was struggling 
However, Art Maerlander has rescued the program, and in the past 3 seasons, the Irish are 19-1 in the regular season. They've been considered one of the top twenty teams in the nation for the past five seasons. 
This season, with Maerlander finishing his doctoral studies at Dartmouth College, the team has been guided on the sidelines by Jay Nash. On the field, senior captains Eric Poley and Joe Burke, will help carry on the tradition of outstanding Irish rugby teams. The team looks forward to the Midwest Regional Championships and a trip to the Rugby Final Four. 
The Irish have rebounded from a slow start and have dominated their most recent opponents. The season started with an exhibition loss to a powerful Michigan men's club team. That was followed by a heartbreaking regular season loss at Bowling Green. Since that loss, the Irish have destroyed three teams by a 182-3 margin. 
Their first win was a 69-3 romp of Michigan State. Then, as the number-one seed at the Karfu Tournament League Championships in Chicago, the team crushed Northwestern 57-0 and University Illinois-Chicago 66-0. The top scorers for the Irish at the Karfu were Dan Belmont with 5 tries and Nick Lloyd, Jeff Lyman, and Eric Poley with 3 tries each. A try is equivalent to a touchdown in football, but it is worth 5 points. The victories guaranteed the Irish an auto­matic bid to the Midwest Championships. 
The national Rugby tournament is similar to the NCAA Basketball tournament. There are 64 teams divided into four regions: East, Midwest, South and West. With 16 teams in each region, the Irish are confident they will gain a top-four seed in the Midwest. At press 
Crew to compete in tradition-rich Boston regatta 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame varsity rowing club will be competing in the Head of the Charles and the Head of the Schuykll over fall break. 
The Irish will travel out to Boston to compete on the Charles River in one of the most famous regattas in the country. Notre Dame will race against crew teams and crew clubs from all over the world. 
"It should give us a good reading of 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club practices at Stepan Field in anticipation of a post-season berth in the national Rugby tournament. The first round of the regional will be played here 
at Notre Dame. 
time, they have yet to be notified of their seeding. If they gain one of the top-four seeds, they will host the first two rounds of the regional at Stepan Field on Oc­tober 31. 
Both Poley and Burke feel the team has an outstanding chance to improve on last year's 3rd place finish. Poley says that the "team is real strong, and they're the hardest hitting team he's played on in his career." 
Burke thinks that they "had a slow start, but they've picked up steam along the way and their chances to win are great with lots of hard work." Penn State will be favored in the Midwest along with 
how we're doing," said Rowing Club president Rudy Bryce of the Head of the Charles. "We'll get a chance to compete against the best of the best. 
"We do reasonably well against other clubs, but we can't compete against the Harvards and the Vales," said Bryce. 
The varsity men will compete in the Lightweight 8 division and the women will compete in the Heavyweight 8 division. The Lightweight division fea­tures individuals under 135 lbs for women and 155 lbs for men while the 
Blue Jays set for World Series 
TORONTO (AP) -At last, a real World Series. 
The Toronto Blue Jays finally learned how to win in October and took the World Series out of the United States for the first time by beating Oakland 9-2 Wednesday to win the AL playoffs. 
"It's an American sport, but a Canadian team, one of the best," Dave Winfield said. 
Beneath hundreds of red maple leafs, Juan Guzman did what Jack Morris and David Cone could not do, winning on three days' rest, to wrap up Game 6. Joe Carter and Candy Maldonado made Guzman's second victory of the series easier with home runs that put Toronto ahead 6-0 after three innings. 
MVP Roberto Alomar fittingly capped off the series with an RBI single in the eighth inning. By then, baseball was well on its way to another first -Cito Gaston becomes the first black manager to make it to the World Series. 
"There was no pressure on us," Carter said, breaking into a big smile. "Are you 
perennial powers Bowling Green, Ohio State and the University of Cincinnati. 
Before the tournament, the Irish still have some unfinished business. After a bye this weekend and time off for fall break, the team will resume playing on October 24. An alumni game with the "old boys" will take place at 9:00 at Stepan. That game will be played by the A side, while the Band C teams take on a Ft. Wayne club team at 9:00. 
On October 31, the Irish hope to begin their quest for the national title under the shadow of the Golden Dome. They can't wait to battle the "favorites" and prove that Notre Dame Rugby's claim to be a national power is legitimate. 
Heavyweight division is open to anyone. 
After the race in Boston, the rowing club will head to Philadelphia for a week of training which will culminate in the Head of the Schuylkll. The varsity rowers will have two practices a day on the Schuylkll River. 
At the Head of the Schuylkll, Notre Dame will have boats in both the men's and women's Heavyweight 8 and Lightweight 8 divisions. 
Bryce and the rest of the varsity rowers are looking forward to the week. 
kidding? There was a ton of pressure on us. We were always going to hear about our past until we reached the next level, which we have. 
"It was a long time in coming for this team, for this city, for these fans," he said. "It's something that has avoided the Canadians for a long time. People will now get a chance to see what a first­class country Canada is and what a first­class city Toronto is." 
Plus, they'll see just how far the Blue Jays have come in only 16 years. They played their first game as an expansion team on April 7, 1977, at snow-covered Exhibition Stadium and went on to lose 107 games that year. 
Gradually, they improved and eventually became the only team in the majors to now have 10 straight winning seasons. 
Even so, the Blue Jays were looked upon as big-game losers until this week. The fans sensed the turnaround, too, as another sellout crowd broke into a three­minute, standing ovation at the end. 
AP File Photo 
Kelly Gruber and the Toronto Blue Jays are 
heading to the World Series. 


