
VOL XXIV NO. 120 MONDAY , MARCH 30, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush will speak at graduation 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 
President George Bush will take a break from the cam­paign trail to address Notre Dame's 1992 graduates, Uni­versity officials confirmed Fri­day. 
"He is definitely going to be the commencement speaker," a well-placed University source said. 
The president will address the 147th graduating class of Notre Dame. which is celebrat­ing its Sesquicentennial year. Details about increased secu­rity and logistics for Bush's address are still being deter­mined by the White House. 
Bush is the fourth consecutive president to address a Notre Dame commencement. Ronald Rnagan spoke in 1981, Jimmy Carter in 1977 and Gerald Ford in 1975. 
Dwight Eisenhower also ad­dressed Notre Dame's gradu­ates in 1960 and Franklin D. Hoosevelt spoke in 1935. 
The May 17 ceremonies will be Bush's fourth visit to Notre Dame. his first as president. 
Bush met with Notre Dame trustees and attended the Penn State football game during his 
see BUSH I page 4 
Foley: not asked to resign in spite of House scandal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House 
Speaker Thomas Foley said 
Sunday that no one has asked 
him to step down because of 
recent irregularities at the 
House bank and post office. He 
also said he intends to seek re­
election as speaker. 
Appearing on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation." the Washington Democrat denied a report in The New York Times that House officials interfered with an investigation of the post office. 
He said he plans this week to appoint a high-ranking career postal employee to take over the post office, succeeding Robert Rota. who resigned last week. 
House sources said Saturday that Foley may act as early as Tuesday to name Michael Shi­nay, executive assistant to the 
U.S. postmaster general. 
Foley also said he is asking appropriations subcommittee chairmen to review the perquisites of not only members of Congress but also those of officials of the executive branch to ensure they are appropriate. 
Foley acknowledged there have been "a lot of rumors" on Capitol Hill that he has been asked to resign. 
"None of them is true," he said. "Not a single person has approached me privately about stepping down." 
Asked if he intended to be a candidate for speaker again in 
the next Congress, which will 
meet in January. he said: "Yes, I 
do." 
Foley, a member of the House since 1965, was elected speaker in 1989 after Jim Wright of Texas resigned. Like all mem­bers of the House, Foley must face re-election in November. 
Some members of Congress have reportedly grumbled that Foley didn't act aggressively enough to deal with irregulari­ties at the post office and the bank. which allowed members to overdraw their accounts. 
The Times reported in Sun­day's editions that a federal grand jury looking into wrong­doing at the post office has fo­cused on a one-month period last summer when top House officials intervened to keep the Capitol police from investigat­ing possible embezzlements. 
"That is not true," Foley said. "We cooperated in every way with the investigation of the post office." 
Discussing the perks that have caused much consterna­tion among voters, Foley said "we're going to see to it that no member of Congress, either party. has any prerequisites of office except those that are nec­essary to do the job." 
He added that, "in fairness. we need to look at the executive branch as well," noting that some low-ranking officials use government limousines for trips to Capitol Hill. 

Moynihan to receive prestigious honor 
Special to the Observer 
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.) has been awarded the University of Notre Dame's 1992 Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. 
Moynihan will receive the medal during the University's 147th Commencement exercises May 17. 
"Moynihan's career uniquely combines intellectual and polit­ical acumen," said University President Father Edward Mal­loy. "His passion for scholarship has made him sensible of the realities of state, sensitive to the cry of the poor, and commendably supportive of higher education." 
Moynihan is the first serving member of the Senate to receive the Laetare Medal. Former Massachusetts Senator John F. Kennedy was president when he received the award in 1961, former Montana Senator Mike Mansfield was ambassador to Japan when he received it in 1977, and former Maine Senator Edmund Muskie was in private law practice when he received it in 1981. 
Born March 16, 1927, in Tulsa, Okla., Moynihan moved with his family to New York City when he was six months old. His father, a newspaperman, deserted the family soon 

Daniel Moynihan 
afterward, and Moynihan grew up in an impoverished house­hold with his mother, brother and sister in New York. 
Moynihan attended the City College of New York and Tufts University, from which he graduated in 1948. He also holds a doctoral degree from Tufts' Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. 
Enlisting in the U.S. Naval Reserve in 1944, he was on ac­tive duty for three years. He remained in the Reserve for 20 years, retiring in 1966. 
The only person in American history to serve in four succes­sive presidential administra­tions, Moynihan was as!tistant secretary of labor in the Kennedy and Johnson cabinets. chief domestic advisor to Presi­dent Nixon and later his am­bassador to India, and ambas­sador to the United Nations under President Ford. 
see MEDAL I page 4 

Sophomores Rachel Belanger and Molly Goodenow participate in "Cream Your Favorite Lyonite" to raise money for the for the Megan Beeler and Colleen Hipp scholarship fund, on Friday. 

Getting Creamed 

~~p-ag-e-2---·~--·~----·-==--·--------~-------~~---------------~-----­
Monday, March 30, 1992
The Observer
( 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Meat market means more than meals 
Take note, women. Your struggle toward arvequal status with men has manifested itself in one of the most unlikely, and yet apropos places-the meat market. 

Actually, the notion that meat eating is an STEVE extension of the male-ZAVESTOSKI dominated patriarchal Assoc. News society that subdues Editor 
women is not so new.--___;;=::..;;.;..__ While a feminist working-class newspaper of the 1890s advocated meatless diets for 
women, meat in general has been a symbol of dominance, wealth and strength ever since man's ingenuity allowed him to hunt and kill faster and stronger animals. 


"Beef consumption became a powerful symbol of nationalism in the 18th and 19th centuries, when the English became closely identified with roast beef," says Jeremy Rifkin in his newest book Beyond Beef The Rise and Fall ofthe Cattle Culture. 
He adds that many believed Britain's mili­tary and commercial superiority was at least partially attributable to its beef-eating ways. Paintings of Henry VIII, for example, typically depict the king eating meat while his six wives are depicted eating fruits and vegeta­bles. 
How does meat eating reflect male domi­nance over women? Primarily, meat eating is a measure of individual and societal virility. Not only has meat eating been associated with wealth and prosperity, but also a "liberal meat supply has been associated with a happy and virile people," according to the food science textbook The Meat We Eat. 
And what does it mean that meat eating symbolizes virility? Placing its definition in place of the word virile, we read "liberal meat supply has been associated with a happy and characteristic ofan adult male people." 
In essence, at every meal, meat eating is the reinscription of male power. The patriarchy in which we live sees meat eating not as the eating of dead animal flesh, but as the par­taking of appetizing food. 
Vegetarian activities counter patriarchal consumption. Feminist vegetarian activity de­clares that an alternative world view exists: one which celebrates life rather than consum­ing death; one which does not rely on resur­rected animals but empowers people. 
In other words, the consumption of meat proclaims the disempowering of women. While male dominance attacks women's rights, human dominance attacks animal rights. Ultimately, meat eating results in the submission of both women and animals. 
What does this mean in our day and age? A sustainable society requires peaceful cohabi­tation. Recycling tin cans may be a start, but it certainly does not equate sustainability or peacefulness. 
The new mode of ecological consciousness sees an earth community arising which em­phasizes a nurturing aspect that leans more toward traditional feminine rather than mas­culine qualities. 
The first step toward this new mode of eco­logical consciousness is simple-stop eating meat. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Production News 
Lisa Bourdon Meredith McCullough Kristen Costello Emily Hage 
Sports Systems 
Rene Ferran Paul Froning 
lab Tech. Graphics 
Jake Peters Ann-Marie Conrado 
Accent VIewpoint 
Julie Wilkens Cheryl Moser 
Jeannie Shin Joe Moody 
Chrissy Prask Business Rich Riley Susan Marx 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
_ 
v"' Assodatllti Press 

·.·:·:·:·:· 
FORECAST: 
Cloudy with some drizzle in the morning. High 45 to 50. Clearing Monday night. 

TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Anchorage 31 18 Athens 6t 52 
Bogota 73 34 
Boston 51 35 Cairo 82 61 Chicago 43 36 Cleveland 48 25 Oallas 76 60 
Denver 52 36 
Havana 64 64 Indianapolis 43 41 Jerusalem 61 46 London 50 45 Madrid 57 28 Minneapolis 44 34 Moscow 50 37 Nashville 60 46 New York 55 35 Paris 48 43 Philadelphia 57 35 Rome 59 48 r--pp~,~;;w;e~-----------------------------~ San F ranclaco 62 51 :·:·: 
South Bend 42 34 
f~i 
'•·: 
H L § Tokyo 54 48 Washington, D.C. 59 37
HIGH LOW
'-;;::;:;;;;;:;;;;:::-S-H_O_Wi..:'E.:..:.RS;__:..:.RA..:l:..:.N_:.T_::.S:.:.TO::R_::M::.:S:....:_F.:_:LU::R:.:_R:IE:_:::S~S:N:;:O:W _:IC~E:._~SU::N~N~Y__:P:::T.~.~CL~OO~'D~Y~C~L~O~U'D~Y~ :;:;_.: 
.-:.::::::::::::·:> <:-·::.::: ;:::=::· 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 


NATIONAL 
Thousands at Pro-Choice Rally
• SAN FRANCISCO -Actress Rita Moreno and the woman known as Jane Roe in the landmark Supreme Court decision led a pro-choice rally that drew thousands of people Sunday. Moreno, 60, told the crowd she nearly died from an illegal abortion when she was 27. The Roe vs. Wade decision established abortion rights in 1973. The U.S. Supreme Court is expected this summer to issue a rulin~ on ~_Pennsylvania law that could severely limit a woman s ability to have a legal abortion. Patricia Ireland president of the National Organization for Women, told the crowd the San Francisco rally and one scheduled next Sunday in Washington would help launch efforts to elect pro-choice women to office. 
Safer Bone Marrow Transplants ~ ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -A technique that harvests Immature cells from a cancer patient's blood may help make bone marrow transplants safer, and may even offer ~n a_lternative, a researcher said Sunday. When 
penpheral blood progenitor cells" were used with transplants, acceptable levels of key blood components 


OF INTEREST 

• 
Cap and Gown Measurements for Faculty and '92 Graduates will take place from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 31, at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 

• 
On_ display at The Snite Museum of Art, "The Mappa Mundi: Maps and the Columbian Encounter: 13th-17th Centuries," will be the subject of a noontalk at 12:10 p.m. March 31 (Tuesday) in the O'Shaugnessy East Galleries. 

• 
Recognizing/Responding to Sexual Harassment will be the topic of discussion this .evening as part of CARE. Sexual Assault Awareness Week speakers will include Wendy Settle from NO Counseling Center, Barbara Fick from NO Law School, Sharon O'Brien from NO Gov­ernment Department, and Patty O'Donnell from GSU. All are welcome to this event which will take place at 7:30 


p.m. at the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. 

• "T.h_e ~.oli_sh Dilemma: An Economy in Transition. will be presented by the President of the U.S./Poland Chamber of Commerce, Mark Chudzinski The 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 203,598,650 223.33 • 2.16 

------~-~ 
Monday, March 30, 1992 The Observer page 3 


ND receives grants for re~search and programs 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,837,977 in grants during February for the support of research and various programs, including: 
• 
$302,000 from the National Science Foundation for collider experiments conducted by Nripendra Biswas and Randall Ruchti, professors of physics, and others. 

• 
$288,000 from the National Science Foundation for experi­mental research in elementary particle physics by William Shephard and Neal Cason, pro­


fessors of physics, and others. 
• 
$219,454 from the National Institute of Health for research by Marvin Miller, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on siderophores, analogs and bio­conjugates. 

• 
$188,149 from the National Institute of Health for research by Miller on drugs and delivery systems for opportunistic infec­tions. 

• 
$87,282 from Lilly Endow­ment, Inc., for research on His­panic Catholics in twentieth century U.S. by Jay Dolan, pro­fessor of history and director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 



Club Column 
MARCH 30, 1992 

l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidenls of 
graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second 
Roor of Lafortune. 
2) The Last Day to access dub funds is April 10,1992. 
3) The Notre Dame Baha'i club will have an informal discussion on the Baha'i Faith on Wednesday, April 1 at 7:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room at Lafortune. All interested are welcome to attend. 
4) Notre Dame Women's Choir will be holding their Spring Concert on Sunday, AprilS, at 8 p.m. in Socred Heart Church. All are invited to attend. 
5) Notre Dame Right to Ufe will have a general meeting 'Thursday, April 2, at 7:30 pm in the Sorin Room. We will be discussing plans for Right to Life week. 
6) Alpha Epsilon Delta invites any sophomore, junior and senior who may qualify for membership to sign up this week in the premedical office. Qualifications are posted outside the office. Initiation bonquet to be held Tuesday, April 7. All current members are encouraged to attend as well. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 Lafortune. 
• 
$80,000 from the U.S. Air Force for research by Craig Lent and Wolfgang Porod, as­sociate professors of electrical engineering, on quantum transport. 

• 
$74,700 from the National Science Foundation for petro­genesis research by Clive Neal, assistant professor of civil engineering and geological sciences. 

• 
$65,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on state selected ion re­actions on surfaces by Dennis Jacobs, assistant professor of chemistry. 

• 
$65,000 from the Ford 



Foundation for research on an English translation and publi­cation of the Chilean National Commission Report by Father William Mclntyre Lewers, pro­fessor of law and director of the Center for Human Rights at the ND Law School. 
• 
$49,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on partial differential equations by Mei-Chi Shaw, as­sociate professor of mathemat­ics, and Alex Himonas, assistant professor of mathematics. 

• 
$46,918 from the Electricite de France for research on Bayesian reconstruction of three-dimensional objects from 


GE gnant will help improve ND chemistry,biology labs 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $100,000 grant from the GE Foundation of Fairfield, Conn.. , to support the ,upgrading of instrumentation in its undergraduate science laboratories. 
"We are grateful to. the GE Foundation for assisting in our efforts to provide state-of-the­art facilities for the education and training of our science stu­dents," said University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. 
The GE Foundation is a trust established by and funded by the General Electric Company, focusing on educational pro­grams which support the emerging workforce. 
"The GE Foundation is con­cerned that the quality of America's college science and engineering graduates not be affected by inadequate or obso­lete teaching or research equipment," said Nick Koma­necky, program officer for higher education programs. 

The grant will be applied to a $6.5 million renovation and in­strumentation project for the University's chemistry and bio­chemistry laboratories and will affect the education of 1,800 undergraduate and 50 graduate students each semester. It will fund the purchase of in­struments like gas chro­matographs, gas chromato­graph-mass spectrometers, and high performance liquid chro­matographs. 
"The University has been see­ing a very rapid increase in its science enrollments," especially in its chemistry and biochem­istry departments, said Paul Helquist, chairman of the de­partment of chemistry and bio­chemistry. "The GE Foundation contribution will provide a sig­nificant boost to the University's efforts for a major upgrade in its science offerings." 
radiographs by Ken Sauer, as­sistant professor of electrical engineering, and Catherine Klifa, postdoctoral research associate in electrical engineer­ing. 
• 
$45,066 from Oxychem Technology Center for research on biodegradation of paraffin by Charles Kulpa Jr., professor of biological sciences. 

• 
$90,000 from the U.S. De­partment of Education to pro­mote minority enrollment in graduate studies, administered by Mario Borelli, associate pro­fessor of mathematics and di­rector of special instructional projects and activities. 





dialogue 


AT N 0 T R E DAME 
AN EVENING WITH: 
DAVID HOROWITZ 
Radical of the 1960s Best Selling Author of [)econstructing the Left 
//Radicals of the 60s and the Decline of the University// 
Monday March 30, 1992 
7:3C)pm 
• 

at The<)dore 's 
Also sponsored by: 
The Jacques Maritain Center and Young America's Foundation 
' 
page 4 The Observer Monday, March 30, 1992 
Heroin treatment dangerous 
HOUSTON (AP) -Methadone, statistics prove the substance is treatment to ease withdrawal a synthetic substance used to as deadly as heroin. from heroin and morphine. treat heroin addiction, killed "If somebody were selling bad Officials blamed the more Houston-area residents booze on the streets, everybody methadone deaths on illegal last year than heroin itself and would be up in arms," said AI sales of the synthetic drug other opiates, a newspaper Dugan, a former chairman for combined with increased diffi­reported Sunday. the Cenikor drug treatment culty in obtaining heroin. A key 
program in Houston. "The source of methadone appears to 
Fourteen deaths were caused problem is that methadone is be dosages addicts take home by methadone last year in Har­very dangerous and can be fatal from methadone clinics. ris County, which includes almost before anybody realizes "They (addicts) are going to Houston and its suburbs, while it." go for whatever is the easiest to eight deaths were attributed to obtain, and the cheapest," said overdoses of heroin, morphine Methadone, developed by the John Moseman, head of drug and other opiates, the Houston Germans during World War II diversion for the Houston office Chronicle reported. as a substitute for the painkiller of the U.S. Drug Enforcement 
Critics of methadone say the morphine, is now used in drug Administration. 


Medal 
continued from page 1 
Elected to the Senate from New York in 1976, he is now in his third term. 
Moynihan has been a member of the faculties of several colleges and universities, including Harvard, where he was professor of government. He is author of 15 

Bush 
continued from page 1 
first visit in November 1986. In August 1987 he attended the closing ceremonies of the In­ternational Special Olympics. 
The Yale graduate made a campaign stop at Notre Dame in November 1988, one week before his election. His address this year comes less than six months before his bid for re­election. 
The 1988 speech at Stepan Center was marked angry stu­dents who were unable to get tickets and a small minority of anti-Bush demonstrators. 
MAPLELA~ 

f BARBER SHOP 
Serving the NotreJ)ame Community for Over 30 years 
2112 Sou[h Bend Ave. Appoin[rnems if desired 
272-6722 


Call For A F":c 1992 Student Travel catalog! 
books, the most recent of which is "On the Law of Nations." He has received 55 honorary degrees, including a doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1969. 
The Laetare (pronounced Lay-tah-ray) Medal is so named because its recipient is an­nounced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. 
Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the Laetare Medal was conceived as an American counterpart of the Golden Rose, a papal honor which antedates the 11th century. 

Among the 113 previous re­cipients of the Laetare Medal are Civil War General William Rosecrans, operatic tenor John McCormack, Ambassador Claire Boothe Luce, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day, and novelist Walker Percy. 
The Observer/John Bingham 

Am I still alive? 
Cavanaugh Hall freshman Joe Opferman checks his standing in the March Madness basketball pool. 
Get up to 30 minutes· oflong-distance calling. Every month, for a full year-absolutely free. 
'A t·~~il ofup to S3.70 will appear on each billing statement for 12 months after enrollment. $3.70 is equal to the charge for a domestic 30·mmute mght/weekend MCI Card Compatoboluy call and appropriate surcharge. You must enroll by December 31, 1992. 
Finally, you really can get something for nothing. 
American Express-Student Privileges .. 
now includes great long-distance savings. 

charges will appear on your monthly billing statement, along with a credit. And you don't have to change your current long-distance carrier. 

And all you need to do is enroll. 
Call today to sign up. It's easy. It's free. 
Then, use the Card as your And talk doesn't get any cheaper calling card. Your long-distance than this. 
MCI 

Enroll today. It's free and it's easy: 
CALL 1-800-456-0545 
To apply for The Card, call1-800-285-AMEX 
--__ ,,,_,_ 

Monday, March 30, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Clinton admits to drug use 
NEW YORK (AP) -Demo­cratic presidential front-runner Bill Clinton acknowledged for the first time Sunday experi­menting with marijuana "a time or two" while attending Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar more than 20 years ago. 
Former California Gov. Jerry Brown, Clinton's lone chal­lenger for the nomination, re­sponded "No" when asked dur­ing a television appearance with Clinton whether he has ever violated drug laws. 
"Why don't you lay off this stuff," Brown added. "What you did 20 years ago is not rel­evant." 
Over the last two years, Clin­ton has been asked numerous times whether he ever used drugs. He elaborately avoided a direct answer, saying he never violated state or federal laws. 
On Sunday, a reporter noted how he told the New York Daily News he never violated "the laws of my country" and asked if he ever violated international drug laws. 
"When I was in England I ex­perimented with marijuana a time or two and didn't like it," the Arkansas governor said. "I didn't inhale and I didn't try it again." Clinton was at Oxford from 1968 to 1970. 
In the last presidential cam­paign, Tennessee Sen. Albert Gore Jr. and former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt acknowl­edged smoking marijuana in their youth. Other candidates denied ever trying the drug. 
Those questions arose in late 1987 when Douglas Ginsburg withdrew his Supreme Court nomination after disclosing he had smoked marijuana with his students at Harvard University. 
The disclosures had little im­pact on the campaign, but it marked the first time the presi­dential race included people of the generation that grew up with recreational drug use. 
Later, in an interview with CBS's "Up To The Minute" program, Clinton said he made the disclosure because "no one had ever asked me the direct question before ... and I really do believe that public people really do have a right to some privacy." 
Asked if he knew he was breaking English law when he smoked marijuana, Clinton said, "I assumed it was against the law, but when we got there they told us that as long as we 

Pre-Law Society Reception 7:00 P.M., Tuesday March 31, 1992. In Law School Lounge (basement) 
Sponsored by: Women's Legal Forum. Refreshments served. 



UrcomingEvents 
April, 1992 Udures and Seminars The Joan B. Kroc Institute for lnkrnational Studies 
111URSDA Y, APRIL 2 U:lS p.m. -MICIIAEL SHIWH, Deputy Chief of M'JSSion, Embassy of Israel, "THE CURRENT MIDDLE EASI' PEACE TALKS: CHANCES 
FOR SE'ITLEMENT." Washington Hall 
'DIURSJ)AY. APRIL 2 
4:30 p.m. -DR. GARY ZIMMERMAN, Manchester CoUege MedU1tion Senice; Professor and Chair, Department of Psychology, Manchestler CoUege, "SOLVING CAMPUS CO:NFLICI'S 1HROUGH MFDIATION.• Cos~ with Campus Ministry, the Center for Sodal Concerns, the' Graduate Studeut Union, the Mediation Exploration Committee, the Mnlticultnral Executive Council, and the University Coumeling Center. Couf~n~JC:e Room 103 -The Hesburgb Center 
SATIJRDAY=SlJNI)AY. APRIL 4-5 
10:00 a.m. Saturday until U:OO noon Sunday -PEACE RIITREAT at lippecmoe State Park in Winamac, Indiana. $5.00 donation/camping fari6ties. Open to all SMCIND Undergraduate and Graduate Stud11nts. Sip up by Wednesday, April I at the Prace lll'ltitute (239-6970) or Campus Ministry (239-6536). 
SUNDAY-'fUEWAY. APRIL 5-7 START CONFERENCE Cosponsored with Army, Navy and Air Fon:e ROTC 
SUNDAY. APRIL 5 
4:00 p.m. -SENATOR RICHARD WGAR (R-IN), Senior Member, Smate Foreign Relati0118 Committee, "FROM STAJlT TO FINISH? THE FUTURE OF NUCLEAR SECURITY ISSUES. • Hesburgb library Auditorium 
MONDAY. APRIL 6 U:OO noon-REPRESENTATIVE LFS ASPIN (D-WI), Chairman, House Anned Senices Committee, "CHALLENGES FOR U.S. SECURITY POUCY IN THE POSf-COlD WAR ERA.• 
Center for Conlinuing Education Auditorium 
Evcryooe Welcome 

II 
did it inside our apartments or whatever nobody would hassle us.... But I was not into that." 
Elsewhere in the campaign: 
• 
Brown campaigned in Wis­consin and Vermont on Sunday, hitting on environmental themes, before returning to New York to hold an "electronic town meeting" through an interactive computer network. 

• 
GOP challenger Patrick Buchanan, who said he would cut back campaigning after disappointing showings in Illi­nois and Michigan, scheduled a speech outside the Capitol on Monday. He then planned to fly to Wisconsin and Minnesota for a full day of campaigning on Tuesday in advance of the April 7 primaries there. 

• 
A new poll of New York vot­ers conducted last week said 59 percent did not believe Clinton was honest enough to be presi­dent. Twenty-nine percent be­lieved he did. 


Clinton's acknowledgment Sunday morning was the only drama in an hour-long forum in which the Democratic rivals traded fresh attacks over Brown's proposed flat tax and Clinton's support of capital punishment. 



NY p1oll shows voters' discont~nt 
NEW YORK (AP) -Voters who doubt Bill Clinton's in­tegrity outnumber those satis­fied with his honesty 2-1 in a poll of New York state residents taken two weeks before the presidential primary. 
The WABC-TV poll of 736 New Yorkers March 25-26 found unhappiness with all the active candidate<: Two-thirds of Democrats and independents and 60 percent of Republicans said they wished others were in the race, the poll found. 

The survey, using ABC News' polling specialists, had a mar­gin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
Many were unable to mention a name of a candidate they would like to see run. Gov. Mario Cuomo was mentioned most often, but only by 21 per­cent. 
Fifty-seven percent of New Yorkers said they are not sat­isfied Clinton has the honesty and integrity to serve effectively as president, WABC said. Only 29 percent think the Arkansas governor does. 
The poll did not try to mea­sure how state residents might vote on April 7. But it asked about impressions of the can­didates. Just 31 percent said they had a favorable impression of Clinton, to 46 percent unfavorable. Former California Gov. Jerry Brown was at 36 percent favorable, 31 percent unfavorable. 
President Bush rated 43 per­cent favorable, 54 percent un­favorable. Non-candidate Paul Tsongas, who is still on the Democratic ballot, had the best ratio in the poll -40 percent favorable, to 25 percent unfa­vorable. 




I Please Recycle I 
FOR RENT 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
Amenities Include: 2 Full Baths Washer /Dryer Security System New Appliances 1 Mile From N.D. 
ewly Remodeled. Features Include: 
All New Bathrooms New Appliances New Carpet Completely Repainted New Siding 
232-8256 
, Monday, March 30, 1992 
The Observer 

pa e 6 

AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER I.SAT 
This example of personalized attentiOn IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 




:%73-1866 

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice fuams 23.7 US :J1 NORTH 

• 
Constantly Updated Materials Across from Knights Inn Suhe %10 


E'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 
LSAT SIGN UPS NOW 273·1866 
----~~---------------~---.------------­
Monday, March 30, 1992 The Observer 
The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 

Dribbling to Success 
Students get in shape for Bookstore Basketball, which begins today, at the Stepan courts. 


The Winners of the Bulls lottery can purchase their tickets at $20 each in the Senior Class Office 
MW 3:00 -5:00 
TTh 3:00 -4:00 

869883 869848 869930 869894 869910 869941 869888 869868 869896 869939 869857 869936 869860 869984 869824 869946 869959 869838 869927 869919 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -An AIDS-infected man charged with paying boys and young men for sex was ordered held on $20 million bail Sunday over fears he might try to kill him­self. 
Edward Savitz, 50, was ar­rested a second time Saturday night on seven new charges of sexually abusing two teen-age boys during the last three years. Savitz had been released the day before when his brother posted $300,000 bond, 10 percent of the $3 million bail, on the original charges. 
His attorney said Sunday that Savitz denies having dangerous sex with anyone. 
As of Sunday, Savitz, an ex­ecutive at a company that ad­ministers health and retirement plans, faced 17 counts: five of sexual abuse of children and corrupting the morals of a mi­nor, three of indecent assault, and two of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse and promot­ing prostitution. 
Police had located 10 boys, including four under age 16, who said they had contact with Savitz, according to James Mooney of the Sex Crimes Unit. Two boys said they had had a relationship with Savitz for two or more years. 
District Attorney Lynne Abraham sought bail of $35 million Sunday. A city court agreed to $20 million. 
"They wanted to make sure he'd be off the street and be no harm to himself or anyone else," said Abraham spokesman Bill Davol. 
Prosecutors say Savitz may have paid hundreds of youths for sex, underwear, or even fe­ces over the past decade. Mooney said more charges are expected. 
Abraham said Savitz used a "pay scale" for sexual acts, in­cluding rewards for referrals. 
Savitz faces a preliminary hearing Wednesday on the ten charges originally filed against him. 
Savitz's attorney, Barnaby Wittels, charged on Sunday that the district attorney's office will "do everything they can to bury him in jail. There's a great engine of AIDS-phobia and homophobia driving this case." 
•
~Tl'DEq
111111111 r 


If you see ne\NS happening call 23!~-5303 and l~:!t us 
knctw. 
r-------------·--------------~
rand Openiing April 3rd 
Rainbo'N Video WE SPECIALIZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 2:3 & Ironwood 
Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 1(]1 am to 8 pm Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 
(219) 2'73-9545 
page 7 

Additional reports widen AIDS-Molestation case 
Who is the best teacher you•ve had at Notre Dame? 
Wh~ich faculty members excel at teiaching undergraduate classes? 
Show your appreciation by nominating your top teachers for the first annual 
Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms are availab•e in the Student Government Office. Call 239·7668 for more information• 
.,.. 
~TL'DEq ~Tl'DEn
• Deadline: ,.uesday, March 31 • 
101111111 r IIJIIIIIII 
He said his client was coop­erating with police. Wittels also said his client denies any guilt and denies having had anal or oral sex with anyone, especially anyone under age 16, the age of consent in Pennsylvania. 
Abraham publicized the case Friday in hopes of reaching those who may have caught AIDS from Savitz. She wouldn't release the man's name, citing state AIDS confidentiality laws. But police and court sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, disclosed his iden­tity. His police mug shot was released. 
Wittels said his client was "devastated" by the disclosure. Because his anonymity was de­stroyed, Savitz was beaten and robbed when he was taken to the Police Detention Center after his arraignment and has been taunted by other inmates in jail, Wittels said. 
"He's totally depressed," he said. Savitz knows that those charged with Ghild abuse are often themselves abused by other prison inmates, Wittels said. 
Savitz was arrested Saturday night at Albert Einstein Medical Center, where he had gone for voluntary psychiatric treat­ment, Wittels said. 
Wittels said Savitz is taking medication for AIDS symptoms, but he didn't know anything further about his client's health. 
Calls continued to flood local AIDS hotlines. 
AIDS hotline supervisor Sue Carver said the bulk of calls to the CHOICE hotline were from teens. "Mostly, people were telling us they had relations with 'Uncle Ed,· primarily oral sex," she said. 
Many questions focused on the risk of getting AIDS. 
From oral sex, "The risk is extremely low, approaching zero," said Dr. Ian Frank, di­rector of the AIDS clinic at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. 
The acidity in the stomach usually kills off any virus, in­cluding the AIDS virus, HIV, said city health commissioner Robert Ross. 
But the risk of transmitting AIDS through anal sex is much higher, experts say, as tissue damage is more likely, allowing the virus to enter the blood­stream. 
FREE 

TANNING 
r:----------,

• &ly4*sessions at the regular I I-price and ~ 4 FREE • Buy 5 I I and get 5 FREE • &ly 6 and I I Get 6 FREE GET THE IOEA7 I 
"---------~ 


· nt .:--· !F:M .V.J · · .}· 

page 8 The Observer Wednesday, March 30, 1992 

Baker attempts resumed Arab/Israeli negotiation 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secre­on participating would be made tary of State James Baker, try­until after an Arab foreign ing to rekindle Mideast peace ministers meeting, tentatively talks, has proposed that Arab set for Wednesday. and Israeli delegations resume Lebanon has invited the for­negotiations April 27 in Wash­eign ministers of Syria, Jordan ington, U.S. and diplomatic and the Palestine Liberation sources said Sunday. Organization to meet in Beirut 
The sources said "letters of to discuss the usefulness of suggestion" from Baker holding another round of peace 
proposing a resumption of ne­talks before Israel's June 23 gotiations were sent to Israel, national elections. All promised Jordan, Syria, Lebanon and to attend. Palestinian Arabs late last week. Another likely topic at the Le­
Details were expected to be banon meeting is whether to announced at the State De­pursue the multilateral negotia­partment on Monday. tions several Arab countries 
The diplomatic sources, who held with Israel in Moscow in spoke only on condition they January. Syria, Lebanon and not be identified by name, said the Palestinians boycotted that Baker urged the Arabs to send meeting. him a list of possible sites out­Three previous rounds of side Washington. peace talks have failed to pro­
duce progress on the three 
Baker first made the request main goals: limited self-rule for a month ago, but only Israel Palestinian Arabs, resolution of has responded, the sources Israel's territorial dispute with said. the Arab nations and Arab 
Jordan's Foreign Minister recognition of Israel. 
Kamel Abu Jaber said he had In Israel, Foreign Minister received a letter. Hanan David Levy, the cabinet's
The Observer/John Bingham 

A sad reminder 
Ashrawi, spokeswoman for the strongest champion of the U.S.­
Part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week, each red ribbon on campus represents a victim of sexual 
Palestinian delegation, also said brokered peace talks, an­
assault. 
her group had received an nounced his resignation Sun­invitation. Both said no decision day. 
Angry Levy chooses to resign 
ummer 
IIEHZLIYA, Israel (APJ -the United States was making referred to the peace talks, Foreign minister David Levy, new efforts to get the peace ne-saying the process "that the Israeli Cabinet's strongest gotiations back on track. Sec-seemed so far away has become 
STORAGE 
champion of the U.S.-brokered retary of State James Baker III reality, and I hope, I hope, it Arab-Israeli peace talks, said has proposed Arab and Israeli will continue." 
RESERVATION I 683-1959 J 
Sunday he would resign. delegations return to Washing-"I won't elaborate," he said. The move dealt Prime Minis-ton on April 27 to resume their But he suggested his dispute 
"' APPROX 21/2 MILES NOilTH US 31-33 
ter Yitzhak Shamir a potentially negotiations, a Bush adminis-with Shamir and other Likud major setback three months tration official said Sunday. leaders was damaging the 
l\1aster Mini Warehouses
before national elections. peace process. Levy's resignation -de-A Shamir spokesman, Ehud "Harmony is needed in the 

livered in an angry, strongly Go!, said Sunday that Israel had working of government, mutual worded speech to supporters -not yet received its invitation. trust. And what has happened, does not take effect until 48 But diplomatic sources in my friends, does not enhance 
Christian Prayer Service
hours after he hands it to the Washington said Israel has re-this vital harmony," he said. Cabinet, and his step may be a sponded to the offer, but did not Levy also complained about Highlighting tactic to force Sharnir into give details of their reply. The those who decided to "declare 
Heroes of Faith
giving his faction more weight sources spoke on condition of war on America" in response to in the party. anonymity. U.S. pressure for Israeli conces­
~J~~~I!!~~?t.~:!:;~;a~~ .-:-f_o;_'1_:_7_t_;_~o_f_f_~_f_}_:_i_~_'{_l_:"_~_:_~_i_~--~-l_i_1_'~_!_t:o_£_~_,~_:_t_,:_i_~_,}_;_If_:~_f_.:~--.~g j! ~ •••••••• 
S amir rna e no 1mme I ate 
· · · · :·:·:·:· 
t~[{J~:~~~:~}~~~~:~ H~;~:~:~~:=:~:~::~:~~;1:: soonso,•d;~j~JE~]~~~r
•••••••• •.•••_•••_••..•• 
flexible on the peace talks than HAYES-HEALY, WEDNESDAY, 411, 1:00 P.M.-3:30P.M. .... Communion and Liberation 
~~~i;~ i;Jf{~f:~2I;l~ HUruEY BUILDmG, THURSDAY, 4/2, I00 P M 3 oo P M ~ Fell:;::c;::::::•OOs •••••••• 
!lis announcement came as 
The Observer 
announces the 1992 -93 St. Mary's Staff Office Hours 

The Office is open Mondays and Wednesdays 10 -11 and 2:30 -3:30, and Tuesday and Thursday 12 -3 in 309 Haggar College Center 
jjii~{:~{~~~~~~:~~~~}}}~~}({{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{{({{{((lJI 
Pre-Law Society/Preprofessional Society Members 
Want to see the University of Michigan's Law School and Medical School? If so, sign up for the upcoming trip to Ann Arbor. A bus will leave early Friday, AprillO, and return that night. For infonnation, contact Michael Loftis (Pre-Law Society, x 3454), Beth Tluchowski (Preprofessional Society, x4877), or Ms. Frances Shavers in the Alumni Association Office. If interested, please respond by April 2 to one of the three 
---~------~ ~----~-----------·---~ 
Monday, March 30, 1992 The Observer page 9 


Three killed in Bosnia; lasting peace not likely 
BOSANSKI BROD, Yugoslavia (AP) -Snipers killed three people Sunday and refugees flooded out of this town in vio­lence-torn northern Bosnia­Hercegovina despite a truce agreement among Serbs, Croats and Muslims. 
The combatants seemed pes­simistic about the chances for lasting peace, and hundreds of cars packed with people and belongings lined up to cross the Sava River into neighboring Croatia. 
But in a sign of the rising tensions as Bosnia moves to join Croatia and Slovenia in se­ceding from Yugoslavia, gun­men turned back males of fighting age who lacked per­mission to leave from the town's Croat-Muslim militia, the Patriotic League. 
"We are mobilizing everyone we can to defend our city," said a militiaman, who would iden­tify himself only as Bahrudin. 
Bahrudin wore a green patch bearing the Muslim crescent and his beret was adorned with the "U" symbol of the Ustashas, the fascist regime that ruled Croatia during World War II and massacred Serbs in Croatia and Bosnia. 
Meanwhile, hundreds of eth­nic Croats sought refugees in Bosanski Brod, saying their vil­lage of Brele, about 18 miles east, was blasted by tanks of the Serb-dominated federal army until the cease-fire took effect Saturday night. 
At least 40 people died in a week of fighting around Bosan­ski Brod, an industrial town of 33,000 people that is 42 per­cent Croat, 35 percent Serb and 12 percent Muslim. 
All-out war in Bosnia could be much bloodier than the war that killed up to 10,000 people in neighboring Croatia after it declared independence last June. 
Serbs, who account for about one-third of Bosnia's 4.4 million people, want their areas to remain part of Yugoslavia, which is dominated by Serbia. Muslims and Croats, who to­gether make up about 61 per­cent of the population, want to secede and to keep the republic together. 
The violence has jeopardized a European Community-medi­ated agreement that would pre­serve one Bosnian republic while granting each ethnic group control over designated areas. Talks on the agreement are scheduled to resume this week. 
Fighting in Croatia has been limited since a U.N.-sponsored cease-fire took effect Jan. 3. But deployment of 14,000 U.N. peacekeepers there could be jeopardized if fighting escalates in Bosnia. 
Under the truce, leaders of the three ethnic groups set a buffer zone and established mixed commissions to oversee the cease-fire in the area around Bosanski Brod. 

ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
tuesday march 31 wednesday april 1 Between 9:00-4:00 
at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Jump! 

Carroll residents exert their volleyball talent on Saturday. 
~...,.o;;;;==;;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
KAREN HEUER 


Hunters Jumpers-Equitation Quality instruction at all levels 
Egan StAbles 2000 Baker town Rd. Buchanan.~ 49107 Slilb/e· 616-695-5190 Home: 616-695-2545 
US uncovers Chinese missile facts 
LONDON (AP) -The Pen­tagon has evidence that China received U.S. Patriot missile technology from Saudi Arabia rather than Israel, as previ­ously suspected, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
Israel radio, in an unattributed report, said Sat­urday that U.S. investigators apparently found no evidence that Israel sold the missile technology to China. Patriot missiles were used during the Gulf War to intercept Iraq rockets. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said Sunday he didn't be­lieve the Saudis passed the mis­sile technology, but had not yet heard from the inspectors, who returned Sunday after a week­long visit. 
"All the Patriots that are in Saudi Arabia are manned by Americans. There are no Patri­ots manned by Saudis," he said on ABC's "World News Tonight" program. 
Washington must approve all foreign sales or transfers of 
U.S. technology. 
The Sunday Telegraph in London said Mossad, Israel's intelligence agency, has evi­dence that Patriot technology was given to Chinese techni­cians working in Saudi Arabia. 
The newspaper said the U.S. inspectors were told that a Saudi minister made a deal in 1988 to supply the technology. 
Asked about the report, Is­raeli Defense Ministry spokesman Dan Naveh said, "We have no information about that." 
The newspaper attributed its report to unidentified Pentagon sources. It did not include comment from Saudi Arabia and there was no answer at the Saudi Embassy in London on Sunday. 
Allegations of illegal Israeli transfers of U.S. weapons have further strained the tradition­ally friendly ties between the United States and Israel. 
Relations suffered after the Bush administration rejected an Israeli request.for $10 bil­lion in loan guarantees to pro­vide housing for immigrants from the former Soviet Union. Israel refused a U.S. demand it halt building settlements in oc­cupied Arab territories as a condition for the loan guaran­

~------------------------------------------------__.tees. 

IT'S NEVER TOO LATE TO BE PREPARED. 
• 
No More Than 10 Students Per Class 

• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Tutorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 


EDUCATIONAL GROUP
•
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
::&7~1866

• Constantly Updated Courses And Materials 
2::&7 US 31 NORTH Across from Knights lnn Suite ::110 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
page 10 The Observer Monday, March 30, 1992 
Gridiron Club dinner reveals a playful Bush 

WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush impersonated Johnny Carson and threw barbs back at journalists and Democrats at the annual Gridiron Club dinner, while Education Secretary Lamar Alexander astonished the audience with his musical talents. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater introduced Bush Saturday night as "Tarmac ... former baggage handler for Air Sununu." And the leader of the free world strode to the podium in a red capo. 
Then, imitating Carson's soothsaying "Carnac the Magnificent," Bush would guess the answers to questions before they are asked. 
Concentrating on one en­velope, he said: "Que Sera, Sera." Then he opened it and read the question: "What's Spanish for Read My Lips." 
On another, he ascertained the answer to be, "Saddam Hussein, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Paul Tsongas." The question was: Name "a scud, a stud and a Fudd," as in Elmer. a joking reference to the former Democratic contender's speaking style. 
Continuing his Carson-esque manner, Bush insulted Fitzwater as his lowly sidekick and glared at those in the audience who hooted. 
"May your firstborn marry a eongressman," he cursed the roomful of Washington's elite, including many members of the House and Senate. 
The president received a standittk ovation. 
Alexander, a relative newcomer to the capital. surprised the audience when, instead of delivering a normal roast speech, he sat behind a piano and delivered his insults to music. Not even Bush was spared, as Alexander gently mocked Bush's attempts to explain breaking his no-tax pledge. 
"They made me do it, I didn't 
wanna do it," he sang. "They 
made me tax you, it's true." 
Turning his skewer toward 
the press. he sang of a 
Washington Post series of 
articles on Vice President Dan 
Quayle that were widely 
viewed as positive toward the 
ever-embattled No. 2. 
"Next thing you know. they'll say Nixon's all right," he sang. "Praise the Lord, they saw the light." 
And he delivered a serenade to the Democrats' front­runner, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton: "How many more are out there, these troubles that hurt you so." 
Alexander often played piano for guests at the executive residence in his two terms as Tennessee governor. During his 1982 re-election campaign, Alexander -clad in his trade­mark red-checked work shirt -would play trombone with a Dixieland band called "Alexander's Ragtime Band." 
Neither Clinton nor Quayle attended the dinner. The former was campaigning and the latter was on vacation. But that didn'fspare them. 
The Gridiron's musical troupe used an Elvis Presloy impersonator to portray Clinton. To the tune of "Love Me Tender," he sang: 
''I'm the nominee for you, cleansed of lust and sin. Love me tender, I'll be true -As I've always been." 
Texas Gov. Ann Richards lumped Quayle and Clinton together. 
"I haven't heard so much silence since Quayle and Clinton got together to trade war stories," she said. 
Everyone knocked Congress. The journalists warped a tune from the musical "Guys and Dolls" to sing of "the oldest established permanent floating con game in the land." 
And "The House I Live In" was given some sharp new lyrics: 
"The House we live in is more than just a bank. 
It's a monumental tribute to the privilege of rank. 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: 
Tuesdays or Thursdays No Experience Necessary 
To apply, contaCt Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 
Happy Birthday Laura! 
We're so proud of you! 

Love, 
Mom & Dad, 
Stephen, Paula, &Teresa 

NASA extends Atlantis mission 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP} -Atlantis' environmental mis­sion was extended Sunday from eight to nine days so its crew can make extra measurements of Earth's endangered ozone layer and other parts of the atmosphere. 
The shuttle's crew of six men 
and one woman had done ev­
erything possible to save 
enough power for an additional 
day in space, including turning 
off the cabin lights and galley 
equipment when not in use. 

When told of the extension, commander Charles Bolden Jr. said "That's great news! The guys are really excited about it ... Everybody's smiling." 
"We're smiling down here, too," Mission Control replied. 
Atlantis was supposed to re­turn Wednesday after eight days in orbit, but scientists in­volved in the mission asked for a ninth day. Landing is now scheduled for just after sunrise Thursday at Kennedy Space Center. 
It is only the fourth time a shuttle flight has been pro­longed for scientific purposes. The last occasion was Discov­ery's biomedical research mis­sion in January. 
Nine other shuttle flights have been extended at least an orbit, but only because of tech­nical problems or bad weather at landing sites. 
As Atlantis whizzed around the world for the sixth day, the astronauts tried again to com­municate by radio with the two cosmonauts aboard the Russian space station Mir. 
Astronaut Kathryn Sullivan, who speaks a little Russian, said she thought she heard a return signal as the spacecraft passed within 62 miles of one another just south of New Zealand. But she said the signal was "very weak and garbled." 
The astronauts tuned in to Mir on Thursday, but their sig­nals were not acknowledged. 
Astronauts and cosmonauts have talked ship-to-ship just 
once, during the 197 5 Apollo­Soyuz mission. 
The Atlantis crew may have accomplished a scientific first -creating double layers of electron charges, a phe­nomenon previously seen only in the laboratory. 
Astronaut Dirk Frimout said that when xenon gas was fired into space, he saw an intense glow like a burning candle atop the gas ejector as well as bright patches in the shape of a cone. Researchers plan to repeat the experiment to verify the results. 
Frimout, a Belgian physicist, and the three other scientists aboard Atlantis also spent Sunday photographing the southern lights and airglow, a shimmering layer of light above Earth. 
Although nature has obliged with somewhat more auroras than expected since Atlantis reached orbit Tuesday, the crew and researchers on the ground are insatiable. They want more. 
Scientists attribute the large number of auroras to high solar activity. The colorful streaks of light are created in the high latitudes, most often near the poles, when atmospheric atoms and molecules interact with charged particles from the sun. 
Most of the 13 scientific in­struments in Atlantis' cargo bay are studying solar energy and the middle-to-upper atmo­sphere. Researchers are par­ticularly interested in the ozone layer, a stratospheric shield against harmful ultraviolet rays that is being eattm by manmade chemicals. 

Although most of the instru­ments have flown on previous shuttle flights, a mission has never revolved around their use. Atlantis' voyage 184 miles above Earth is the first of 46 shuttle trips dedicated to atmo­spheric research. 
The only astronomical in­strument aboard Atlantis, an ultraviolet telescope, was aimed Sunday at a large spiral galaxy two million light years away. The galaxy has had four super­novas, or exploding stars. in the past 50 years, a much higher number than average. 
Such observations are impos­sible from the ground because ultraviolet light cannot pene­trate the atmosphere. 
Frimout said the stellar ob­servations have earthly applica­tions. 
"If we measure things on other stars ... it's obvious they can be related to the history of our planet as well and our solar system." he said. 
COLEMOHDEENfi. 
Stop doing the turtle, You're 21! 
Love, Bobo, Nicole, Beth, Helen, Amy & Julie 



A lecture and discussi6n series to offer us a chance to look at and ask questions about our church and our faith: Where have we come from. where are we now and where are we going? 
• 

"WHO CARES?" 
STUDENT PANEL FATHER TOM McDERMOTT, C.S.C. moderator Tuesday, March 31, 1992 
Fellow students speak about practicing their faith here and now 
• 

FACULTY DINING ROOM South Dining Hall 
• 

7:30 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Tuesday, March 24, 31, and April 7, 1992 
• 

• 
COME WITH QUESTIONS! 
0MPUS 


MNISTRY Holy Cow! 

-~-W. 


Business 
Monday, March 30, 1992 page 11 
Bush to present support program 
Cheney comments on purchase of Soviet space technology 
Chairman r~esponds to AT&T image problems 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
COURSES ADDED  CHANGES  
jAERO 498A  01  #4169­ Introduction to Aeroelasticity; 3 cr.  
hrs.; T H 11:00-12:15  AMST 346  01  #0046­ change days/time to: T H 02:45-04:00  
jAFAM 460  01  #4170­ Appropriate Tech/3rd World; 3 cr.  ANTH 375  01  #3450­ change time to: T H 11:00-12:15  
hrs.;T H 09:30-10:45 cross-listed with  CAPP 253  01  #1162­ change restrictions to: College of  
ECON 460-01, GOVT 454-01 and STV  Arts &Letters Sophomores only  
460-01  through third period, then Freshmen  
jAMST 396  01  #4183­ Canada &the United States: Best  only  
Friends, Like It or Not; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 09:30­ CHEG 355  01  #1198­ change days/lime to: T H 11 :00-12:15  
12:15; meets every other week  CHEM 321  01  #1241­ change maximum to 1 00  
jAMST 437  01  #4184­ Writing and Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; WF  ECON 301A  01  #3581­ change days/time to: T H 02:45-04:00  
09:05-11 :50; meets every other week  EDUC 324  01  #8418­ change restriction to: Juniors &  
EE 499R  21  #4165­ Undergraduate Research; var. cr. hrs.  Seniors only  
EE 699R  20  #4166­ Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.  GOVT342  01  #1707­ remove corequisite (GOVT 342T)  
~BA632  01  #4180­ Union Relations &Collec. Barg.; 3 cr.  GOVT473  01  #4095­ change time to: M W 08:40-09:55  
hrs.; T H 09:30-10:45 cross-listed  GOVT491F  01  #3680­ change days to: M W 02:45-04:00  
with MGT 373-01  MBA651  01  #4127­ is NOT Permission Required  
ME425  01  #4191­ Linear Vibration; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F  MGT 240  all  restrictions should read: " BA  
01 :15-02:05  students only 1l:J.rQugh 3rd period;  
MUS 4090  01  #4171­ Chamber Music; 1 cr. hr.; W 01 :00­ then open to all  
01 :50;Permission Required  MGT350-491  restrictions should read: "Majors only  
MUS 412B  01  #4172­ Harp; var. cr. hrs.; Permission  1l:J.rQugh 2nd period; BA students only  
Required  3rd period; then open to all  
MUS412D  01  #4173­ Harpsicord; var. cr. hrs.; Permission  MSE611  01  #0804­ change days/lime to: T H 11:00-12:15  
Required  MUS 503  01  #0339­ change time to: T 11 :00 -11 :50;  
MUS 4130  01  #4174­ Guitar; var. cr. hrs.; Permission  Permission Required  
Required  MUS525  01  #2138­ change time to: T H 09:30-10:45  
PHIL241  01  #4185­ Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F 09:05-09:55  MUS 529  01  #3781­ change time to: H 11:00-11:50  
PHIL 241  02  #4186­ Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M W F 10:10-11:00  ROIT101  05  #3832­ should not be Permission Required  
PHIL 242  02  #4187­ Basic Issues in Pol. Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.;  SOC300  01  #3845­ change days/lime to: T H 01 :15-02:30  
M W F 09:05 09:55  soc 374  01  #3449­ change time to: T H 11:00-12:15  
PHIL242  03  #4188­ Basic Issues in Pol. Phil.; 3 cr. hrs.;  soc 473  01  #4110­ change time to: M W 08:40-09:55  
M W F 11:15-12:15  THE0401  01  #2662­ change time to: T H 11:00-12:15  
PHIL245  01  #4189­ Medical Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M W 12:50­ THE0681  01  #2787­ change time to:  M 10:00-12:30  
2:05  
PHIL 245  02  #4190­ Medical Ethics; 3 cr. hrs.; M W 02:20­03:35  COURSES CANCELLED  
PHIL424  01  #4168­ Metaphysics; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 09:30­ 
10:45;  CHEM 313 01 -#1240  
Permission Required  THEO 439 01 -#0693  
HE0229  02  #4167­ Science &Theology; 3 cr. hrs.; T H  THEO 519 01 -#4119  
11:00-12:15  THEO 542 01 -#3887  
HEO 270  01  #4181­ Theological Imagination: fromAntiquity to  
the Present; 3 cr. hrs.; M W 08:30-09:45  
trHEO 640  01  #4182­ Hermeneutics and the Theology of  
Symbol; 3 cr. hrs.; T 01:15-03:45  

Business 
Bri'~ts 

• WASHINGTON (AP) -Personal incomes posted their biggest increase in three years in February, helping to support a gain lrt consumer spending that will be crucial to an economic recovery, the government said. 
Despite the new sign of growth, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said Friday that if the Federal Reserve fails to provide enough money to sustain the recovery, the economy could falter again as it did last fall. 
It was the latest call for monetary easing by an official of the Bush administration, which is hoping for interest rates to remain low and for the recovery to be solidly in place by the fall presidential campaign. 
• NEW YORK (AP) -Michael Milken•g'' lawyers asked a judge to reduce his prison sentence, saying the former junk-bond financier has helped investigators extensively and is ready to testify in court against a former colleague. 
In court papers filed Friday, the lawyers also describe Milken's prison life. The request, signed by three lawyers, said Milken is expected to testify at the trial of former Drexel junk·bond executive Alan Rosenthal on conspiracy, fraud and embezzlement charges. · · 
• WASHINGTON (AP)......,. The govel'~plent hai; approved a deal to let USAir operate a re· organized Trump Shuttle, which caters to business travelers in the northeast. 
USAir plans to paint over developer Dortald:t Trump's name on the airplanes and rechrtsten the carrier the USAir Shuttle, perhaps as soot;i as next month. .'·:,::::., /i:,, 
USAir will pay up to $16.2 milliorito enter Q(~,, management agreement.U also willteceix~ ,the' right to buy a 40 percent ownership interest in · the new company and an option to buy th.tj shuttle outright at the end of4 1/2 years. '@ 

WASHINGTON (AP) -President Bush said Sunday he's readying a comprehensive new Pian to help the struggling republics of the former Soviet Union. 
"I will have something to say on that this week ... a comprehensive comment," said Bush, who has been accused by both Democrats and former President Richard Nixon of not doing enough to help democracy and free markets take holdl in the former communist superpower. 
Bush is reportedly considering a $1 billion contribution to a fund to stabilize the ruble, as well as fighting for a $12 billion increase in U.S. support for the International Monetary Fund. 
While promising a major an­nouncement on the aid package, he said was unsure when it would actually be sent to Congress. 
BASKING RIDGE, N.J. (AP) -Just when everything seemed to be going right for AT&T Chairman Robert Allen, things came crashing down. 
Under him, AT&T shed tens of thousands of jobs, stemmed the loss of customers to MCI and Sprint, launched an popular credit card and bought NCR Corp. in a hostile takeover to end AT&T's multibillion­dollar computer losses. 
Then last September, AT&T employees at a Manhattan call­switching building ignored alarms and power to the center went dead. 
It took AT&T seven hours to bring the switching center back on line, turning the outage into a public 


The White House on Friday announced a $14.3 million deal to buy space technology and nuclear material from Russia, and U.S. officials anticipate more such deals. 
"It's a good deal for us," Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
relations disaster. 
The outage was especially embarrassing because it was AT&T's third in two years, though by far the worst. And it wasn't the last ­another last November disrupted phone service and the air-traffic system in New England. 
"I don't know anything that's happened in my almost 35 years in the business that's been taken quite so importantly or so seriously as those outages, by me, by all the peo­ple in this business," he said. 
"We have to be better than our competitors because we not only serve our customers, but the public at large has a dependence on AT&T." 
"It saves us the cost of having to develop that kind of capability and the Soviets are able to use the revenue from that to work on their own conversion. But we are not going beyond what makes sense from the standpoint of the U.S.," Cheney said. 
Cheney said Bush's package will "allow us to support Democratic reform efforts inside the Soviet Union," but he didn't elaborate. 
The United States has provided almost $4 billion in credits to help the former Soviet republics buy American grain, and the administration wants $620 million for fiscal 1992 and 1993 for direct help. 
A bipartisan group of senators urged Bush and Secretary of State James Baker III to undertake a major sales campaign in Congress and with the public at-large to aid the former Soviet republics. 
But Allen said there was no quick fix for the bruised reputation, which he said caused more embarrassment than lost business. 
"There's no PR campaign, there's no communications effort that I know of that restores customer confidence if they've lost it, except (better) performance." 
Some industry analysts blame the outages on AT&T's reductions in employees and facilities. 
Allen says the cutbacks aren't to blame, but rather the overall changes in its operations due to the long­distance competition it has faced since the 1984 breakup of the Bell System. 
........~~----·--~----~--~----~~-----.~~~--~--~--------------~--~------------~----~------------~-------------------------­
Viewpoint 
page 12 Monday, March 30, 1992 




P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •••••••••.•..Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
Auction illustrates spirit of giving 
Thursday night, the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) sponsored a 'People Auction' to raise money for the Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarship funds. 
The event was a success, as a capacity crowd of approximately 800 people contributed over $30,000 in a bidding battle for the services of 75 campus celebrities. 
It is difficult to believe that some good could come out of the tragic deaths of Beeler and Hipp two months ago when the bus carrying the ND women's swim team overturned on U.S. 31. 
However, the success of HPC's 'People Auction' extends beyond any monetary gains toward the scholarship funds. The event proved wrong many theories that have been circulating about the ineffectiveness of the University's student groups and the apathetic nature of its student body. 
In a year when HPC battled complaints about its ability to address important campus issues. the auction showed that an organization with a diverse membership can, in fact, mobilize students to participate toward a common goal. 
While HPC in the past has not used its potential role to act on important issues, in this case it did take advantage of its diverse membership. 
The 'People's Auction' also provided students the opportunity to disprove those who declare them apathetic. Perhaps the majority of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students came for personal reasons only, but when called to act toward a charitable end, they responded with a generosity that need not be questioned. 
Some might argue that the concept of a 'People Auction' is potentially offensive to the African-American community or that its degrading basis runs counter to Christian values. But the context in which the auction was developed, the voluntary nature of the event and the ends toward which the event worked dispute these arguments. 
For those that might criticize the means by which the money was raised or question the intent of those who contributed, perhaps they should consider what was really at stake: the spirit of giving for those less fortunate in the 
OPeRATING OUTOF 7H& IA/H!TC ~~ 7Ht'6e ATTACK Vf/ONKS 
HAV&:' 8f3a./ GtN5R.ATING !<AU/ WIT A FOR. NE6ATIV8 ~ 
FOR OV&R A YeAR/ 

memory of Beeler and Hipp. 
DOONESBURY 
(3(X}fJ &V&NING. I'M RaANf) H&OU-Y, ANP 7VN!GHTtteU. ~ TAKINGIWMWSIV&/.aJK. 
ATA Um6-KNWN 7l!4M OF 8USH CAMPAIGN 
CPf!RATIV&S.' 
7H&Y'R£ TH8 OPP05f770N !?&­
StARCH 5PEC/At/ST5 -"OPO" 
FOR ~R:T-A C/?ACJ< 7CAM OF 
Wl7Aatls.? (.OM/MNI)QS CHAR6t/) tfJJTHP/66/N6 lJP {}flU ON 7H& PRO!JA8t& f?l3lr10Cillr17C NOM.IN&E 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Women's basketball team will survive 
Dear Editor: 
Mark Twain once said that the reports of his death were greatly exaggerated. So, too, it would seem are the reports of the imminent demise of the women's basketball program. Jenny Marten seems to feel that this indicates that "the downfall of Notre Dame women's basketball continues." 
Certainly both Michelle Marciniak and Audrey Gomez will be missed not only by the team but by the Notre Dame community as a whole, as will graduating seniors Margaret Nowlin, Comalita Haysbert, and Deb Fitzgerald. Muffet McGraw and her women should not be counted out yet. 
Junior Majenica Rupe per­formed beyond expectations at the MCC tournament with, I be­lieve, four blocked shots. Another player who shined at the MCC tournament was sophomore Sherri Orlosky. In fact, Orlosky was named to the all-tournament team along with 

Transferring player was mistreated 
Dear Editor: 
As a fan of the Women's Basketball Team who attended three quarters of its home games and has followed its coverage in both the campus and commercial press, I wish to speak up in support of Ms. Michelle Marciniak and in con­tradiction to the rather ugly and unfair remarks about her published in the March 25 edi­tion of The Observer. 
I have been impressed by Ms. Marciniak's thoughtfulness and strength in keeping her inten­tions to herself, as she had not only every right but excellent reasons to do. 
The pursuit of happiness re-Nowlin. Orlosky hit 40 percent from three point range, which makes her a definite offensive threat. 

Much has been made of the two freshmen who are leaving, and they are going to be missed, but the freshman who is staying, Letitia Bowen, should not be overlooked. 
After a slow start she eventually became a major force under the basket, pulling down 183 rebounds for the year, second only to Nowlin, and should continue to improve in her next three years of eligi­bility. 
Anyone who has been paying attention to women's basketball over the last two months has heard of sophomore walk-on Kara Leary. She revitalized the Irish at the end of the year and provided the on-court lead­ership that helped the team gel into an effective unit. Obviously, I could go on for pages, ex­tolling the virtues of the ND women. 
There is much to be said for players such as Kristen Knapp and Andrea Alexander, who played well off of the bench, and Coquese Washington and Dionne Smith, who were ham­pered by injuries for much of the season. 
Despite what Miss Marten says, I think that the Irish will do very well next year, especially if Coach McGraw manages to recruit some play­ers who can contribute off of the bench, if Tootie Jones re­turns to the team, and the team stays healthy. 
In fact, I think that everyone who has their doubts should come out next November to see just how exciting these games can be. I know I'll be in the stands when they start playing again. 
Chris Kennedy 
Physics Graduate Student 
March 25, 1992 

mains our common inalienable right. 
If unhappy here, we can look into other possibilities. Because of Ms. Marciniak's exceptional gifts as an athlete and the public's admiration of them, even the most discrete and speculative inquiries of this sort on her part would have led to rumors. 
This unsought public interest in a private matter may have interfered with her inquiries and jeopardized the hopes of her team. Is a freshman stu­dent,who tried to sort things through quietly, to be publicly called a liar for denying inten­tions which were not definitely formed and might have a dis­ruptive effect on her team in the middle of a stretch drive? 
Her own words about Notre Dame have been much more gracious, and her effort and enthusiasm for the team's suc­cess were, from this fan's seat, as apparent as that of any of the players or coaches. 
Joseph Tama Assistant Professor Department of Management March 26, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
/..OCATW IN 7Ht; ABANWN£1? txm£5TIC lUCY OFF!C£5...  'Irs the heart, afraid of breaking, that never learns to dance. It's the dream, afraid of  
waking, that never takes a  
chance.'  
Bette Midler  
Learn to dance, take a chance, submit: QUOTE'S. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556  

Viewpc,int

Monday, March 30, 1992 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U.S. only upholds principle~; when convenient 
Dear Editor: 
Events over the last several decades have propelled the US into a world leadership role. We as Americans sometimes seem to greatly savor this, and the recent disparity between economic decline and military supremacy has perhaps exac­erbated this. Our government pursues the nebulous quantity of the "national interest" thru its dealings with other coun­tries, and we generally accept what little cost there seems to be. 
Unfortunately, our inatten­tiveness allows us to repeatedly side with less than righteous parties in dubious ventures. Furthermore, there are conse­quences for us in areas we rarely discuss -namely the democratic ideals we use to de­fine ourselves as Americans. 
One recent case in point was the twisting of our legal system in the extradition of Joseph Doherty. Born and raised in Northern Ireland, he experi­enced the hardships of the re­gion's conflict and eventually joined the political movement of Republicanism. In 1980, Doherty was present with seven other IRA members at the shooting of a British soldier. They eventually surrendered, were placed in prison, and then escaped. He was arrested in this country on an immigration violation in 1983 and was held in prison nine years without trial. 
Because Britain is a close ally, the Reagan and Bush Administrations repeatedly tried to extradite Doherty, although longstanding prece­dent and law prohibit this and grant asylum when the offense is political. The granting of asylum can prevent miscar­riages of justice against dissenters such as juryless trials, torture, and "disappearances." Despite this, in 1986 the Reagan administration retroactively changed the US/UK extradition treaty to allow Doherty's deportation. 
Nevertheless, eight times US Courts and the Bureau of Immigration Appeals reiterated the illegality of Doherty's de­portation and the need for an asylum hearing. The final leap with precedent came when the case was appealed to the Supreme Court when there were no grounds for such an appeal. The Administration finally got its way in Jan. 1992, although the 5-3 Court ruling produced a dissenting viewpoint that the asylum hearings were improperly blocked due to foreign policy considerations. 
Another example has been 
taking place recently in North Africa. The Algerian Army qui­etly took control of the Algerian Government in January, with hardly a reaction from the United States. This was in response to the massive electoral victory by the nation's Islamic Salvation Front Party (FIS) in the first round of the first free elections held there. 
Prior to this, the country was ruled autocratical!ly by the National Liberation Front (FLN) since its independence in 1962. The FIS won 188 of the 231 first round parliamentary seats contested. Needing to win only 28 of the remaining 199 seats, the FIS was virtually assured a parliamentary majorilty. 
Before the second round of elections took place, the presi­dent and the FIS negotiated the transition to a democratic government. The military apparently disapproved of the agreements reached and forced the president to resign. In the president's resignation speech, it was revealed that the parlia­ment was dissolved at the be­ginning of the year leaving no one to govern. Constitutionally, control of the government was to be given to the nation's highest judicial body, the Constitutional Council (CC). 
It was deemed by the CC, how­ever:. that under such circum­

stances the constitution did not apply. The military promptly create·d the High Security Council {HSC) to govern the nation and preserve order. The HSC consisted of six individuals -three former high ranking military officials and three non­military officials with a history of hostility towards those seg­ments of society the FIS cur­rently represents. 
The HSC immediately can­celled the upcoming round of elections, thus voiding first round results. The three major political parties, including the FLN, opposed the cancellation of elections, the actions of the military, and the creation of the HSC. Soon afterwards, the new government began arresting FIS leaders not already imprisoned and imposed laws forbidding FIS gatherings. 
Demonstrations and clashes between FIS supporters and the police resulted in at least forty deaths. This prompted the HSC to declare a twelve month state of emergency and to openly ban the FIS, claiming that democ­racy and free elections would be restored later. 
In the examples above, our democratic ideals have been compromised. For Joe Doherty, a hearing on the merits of his claim for political asylum was repeatedly denied. 
Accommodating the wishes of an ally has crippled due process. 
The actions in Algeria were taken in the name of democ­racy, but how could the voiding of election results be justified when they were completely legal and accepted by every political party? By not objecting we helped deny opportunity based on what was expected from the FIS, not what was proven. 
Why has the US Government championed democratic princi­ples in only some parts of the world? Shouldn't we take an in­terest in how our government does this? Certainly a diversity of opinion is a prerequisite for democracy, so how can we ad­vocate the suppression of view­points or wishes very different from our own? The conse­quences to us are the hedging of our democratic ideals and a limited understanding of others. 
This, in turn, can lead us to actions not adequately dis­cussed (e.g. Vietnam, the Gulf War), and manipulation of our legal system. In the words of Cardinal John J. O'Connor, 'The just must prevail over the political. If it doesn't, none of us is safe, alien or citizen." 
Maan Qazzaz Bob Kehoe March 23,1992 

Professor criticizes letter People Auction reminiscent of slavery 
Dear Editor: of the Africans so they would be process to tear families apart; I have again been compelled too fearful to resist the slavery sometimes as punishment;
as shallow, simple-minded 
to address a distressing insen­to which they were about to be other times, as a way to keep sitivity here within the Notre subjected. (The Negro Almanac, their own slave populations
Dear Editor: propaganda." 
Dame community. The People . pp. 1433-1434). weak and disorganized due toIn reference to Rev. Doug Clearly the Arab-Israeli con­Auction was, in my opinion, This is what happened to unfamiliarity within their slaveMay's letter of Friday, March flict is complex and as such will disrespectful to any person of Africans before they were put communities. It was an20, Shakespeare said it best -require complex solutions. A African heritage. on the auction block to be sold economically essential practice"Et tu, Brute!" After all, it must subset of this conflict, and no I understand that most who like cattle to the highest bidder. to the business of slavery and have been of great comfort for less complex, is the plight of the 
just completed those first two Now imagine being Black and cannot be separated from the Israel to know that Rev. May Palestinians. Rev. May is sentences are now thinking aware of that history, and many other brutal and in­"even wore a Star of David" content to place the entire bur­"Here we go again with this you're walking through the law humane acts performed against around his neck. (this makes me den of this conflict on Israel. oversensitive reaction by Black school only to come across a the Africans. wonder if he subjected himself He conveniently disregards people to an event held merely sign that says "Ever wanted to My purpose for sharing that is to ritual circumcision as well). the abominable treatment these to raise money for a good have your very own law slave?" because I understand that But the good Rev. May did not unfortunate people have re­cause." I understand your ap­This was the caption posted ignorance breeds insensitivity. I 
ceived at the hands of their prehensions, but, as I try to un­over the advertisement for the know that when most peoplestop there -he not only read derstand that reaction, at least People Auction. think about it, they willthe book "Auschwitz," but even Kuwaiti Arab brothers. Further, try to understand what I am At first I was just annoyed but conclude that there could havetook the time to see the film he does not mention that the attempting to express with this that soon turned into disgust. been other activities to raise"Exodus" (well, the book was forcible, violent upheaval some commentary. The African Slave Trade was money for the memorial fund in 
kind of long). Such a good years ago, of hundreds of 
It was estimated that ten mil­our Holocaust. Slavery itself memory of Meghan Beeler and 
friend! thousands of Palestinians 
lion Africans were enslaved in was an extension of that horror. Colleen Hipp. 
In my many years here as a (which resulted in large 
America and the Caribbean be­I don't think that the Jewish I don't mean to come off as faculty member I have read a numbers of Palestinian deaths) tween 1663 and 1863. community would be very being oversensitive and I cer­fair number of drivel-filled let­from Jordan (more Arab Approximately one and a half receptive to reenactments of tainly do not criticize the par­ters in the Observer; Rev. May's brothers) is now a major factor million Africans died during moments from their Holocaust, ticipants of the event. I, myself, contribution has lowered this exacerbating the current what was called "The Middle so it is unreasonable of me to would have gladly participated particular literary gender to a situation. Passage," which was the trip be upset over reenactments of had I felt less alienated by the new level of shallowness. Simple-minded letter such as from Africa to the Caribbean our tragic history. auction. I think that we, as 
and the American coastline. Over fourteen million people African-Americans, however,My purpose here is not to de­the one written by Rev. May Another three million were taken from their home­must keep the events our his­fend Israel nor to chastise tend to polarize positions and Africans died once they reached lands. About four million died tory in proper perspective, andArabs. The continuing cycle of contribute nothing to a hoped­the Caribbean or America dur­before experiencing slavery. protect it when it is trivializedretribution via terrorist acts is, for solution. I must admit I, ing the process sometimes The survivors and generations or insensitively mocked. 
of course, a great human too, cannot offer a solution but 
called "the training period." to follow were subjected to the 
tragedy -a tragedy for Israelis along with Rev. May I fervently 
This process included a series most severe treatment imagin­Dennis Barnes and Palestinians alike. But to hope for a "just and peaceful of brutal beatings, including able which included their being Fischer Graduate Housing place blame on one side alone -resolution of the issues that mental and psychological tor­auctioned off. March 27, 1992 "dysfunctional behavior against would allow for Israel and ture designed to break the spirit Slave traders used the auction Arabs" by Israel, while not Palestine to prosper together." 
mentioning the reverse, is rep­What I refuse to do however is rehensible. to foolishly trivialize the issues Rev. May does concede that so that all blame is attributed to 
Palestinians "have sometimes one side only. God knows there responded to violence with vio­is blame enough for all. My lence" although he qualifies admonition is to heed the words 
,. 
this by saying that Palestinian of the philosopher Alfred North casualties "far outnumber those Whitehead-"Seek simplicity of Israel." I'm to conclude, I and distrust it." guess, that the recent destruc­Morton S. Fuchs tion of the Israeli Embassy by Professor of Biological Arab terrorists in Buenos Aires Sciences was just to even things up. Or, March 23, 1992 perhaps this incident was just the dissemination of "pro-Israel 
Accent 
page 14 Monday, March 30, 1992 

I 
l1!t 

-1.: 
t ~·· 
f 
Senior architecture students present 
'I:</

South Bend with plans for ·::{·l 
,··~ i 

improvement / ·J:j 
! _\\ I I 
BY BILL FEKRAT and ethics involved in city The Observer/ Sean Farnan Accent Writer planning." Seniors Joel Westervelt, Marcelo Reyna, and Mark Sanderson review their city-improvement proposal for the city of South Bend. 
A 
new project with the The plans the students have city of South Bend is developed focus on maintaining but then it becomes deserted detail brought some students to "brick and mortar" look to the giving Notre Dame South Bend's "classical" archi­because there's no night-life a better understanding of the city, and they also liked the idea 
architecture students tectural look. Projects and nobody lives there." community, and in some cases of creating a central identifying 
important experience considering a new building for Westervelt, along with Mark provided their first close view of point in the downtown. 
in "real-world" issues of city the city's school corporation Sanderson, Marcelo Reyna, and the city. Senior Tom Lanahan "We've had very good rapport 
planning. offices and a new location for Thomas DiChiara, tried to said, "This was the first time I with the city. The presentations 
Eleven seniors in the the Ivy Tech Vocational College imagine South Bend 100 years had done anything in South were well-received and we architecture program spent sought a historical appeal that into the future in their project. Bend; it was really my first hope to continue this kind of this semester considering how fits in with some of the older "We were frustrated with South chance to learn about the interaction between the school to develop and improve the buildings, like the courthouse, Bend's urban design," said town." and the community," said downtown area. The core area and balance newer buildings, Westervelt. "The problems Two weeks ago, the students Lykoudis. of the downtown was divided like Century Center. couldn't be enhanced with presented their completed pro­The program has met success into four sections and two or building or removing a single jects to the South Bend on every side. The students three students worked in each Increased use of the water­building ... so we concentrated Redevelopment Office and got found some important lessons area. front is one proposed idea for on long-term plans." some favorable responses. about city planning through 
"The architecture school ini­development. Many students Other concerns which the Those who submitted plans for "hands-on" experience, and the tiated the program to give stu­wanted to see the East Race students expressed and consid­a new school corporation city gained some valuable in­dents a broad range of skills," and other riverfront property ered in their projects included building had their projects sights for development and im­said Professor Michael used for more residential and rerouting traffic, making the carefully considered while the provement. This type of link Lykoudis, the program's super­commercial purposes. city more pedestrian-friendly, city will soon decide whether or between Notre Dame and the visor. "We wanted to "One big problem with the creating an identifiable center not to go ahead with creating rest of the community demon­emphasize three things: downtown area," said Senior of the city, and making the city new offices. strates learning that goes far teamwork, the impact a single Joel Westervelt, "is that it's a denser by condensing open beyond the classroom and has a building can have on city nine-to-five city; people go parking lots. The committee favored the lot of significance out there in planning, and the responsibility there to work during the day, Studying South Bend in such desire to preserve a classic the "real world". 
Macri's: a new restaurant with Old World tradition 
BY MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH Assistant Accent Editor 
Just what is it that makes a good restaurant? 
Is it a fancy set-up? Dim lights and expensive silver candlesticks. Walls cluttered with colorful memorabilia. Strolling musicians and dancing waiters or waitresses. 
Or is it a more simple approach? Less decor, more feeling. The smell of freshly prepared food greeting customers at the door. Friendly workers and management who appreciate their customers. 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant, next to Club Shenanigans, opted for the latter-and it works. 
Tony Macri and his family opened Macri's Pizza's doors on February 5 of this year with a focus on pleasing the customers and an affordable menu offering a variety of pizzas, pasta, hot sandwiches and other Italian samplings. 
Although not to be confused with the Macris of Macri's Deli, Tony Macri and his brothers are no strangers to the restaurant business. 
Macri arrived in America from Italy in 1956 and two years later worked as a "pizza cook" at Volcano in South Bend until 1963. Later his family opened Macri's Carryout, followed shortly after by Macri's Restaurant in Osceola. Two of his brothers currently own and run Macri's Milano Inn at U.S. Route 31 and Kern Rd. 
The experience shows. 
"The food is authentic," said Macri. "We make our own pizza sauce, pizza dough, sausage links" and much more. 
Referring specifically to the fresh vegetables and quality cheese ("the best on the market"), Macri explained that he uses only the best ingredients. 
In fact, Macri is so confident in the quality and cleanliness of his restaurant, that he runs an open kitchen, inviting customers to inspect the condition of his goods and freezers. 
"I'm not ashamed to let people walk in the kitchen," said Macri. But the "open kitchen" has a more practical, yet fun, purpose as well. 


"Feel free to watch us make your pizza from scratch," reads the menu, and with the kitchen area partially encased in glass like a large window, the building's design makes such an offer possible. 
Response to the restaurant seems to make Macri's efforts at quality and customer comfort worthwhile. 
Given the short amount of time that the restaurant has been open, business has been good, according to Macri. Perhaps more importantly though, "We've been keeping the customers," he said. "People are coming here to eat. They like the food and even brag about it to their friends." 
"It wasn't like processed pizza," said one satisfied customer. "You could tell it was made from scratch. Good cheese. Good sauce ... And the prices were reasonable. It was inexpensive for the amount of food you got." 
As of now, Macri's menu consists of four main categories: 
• Appetizers include such items as Buffalo Wings, Mozzarella Sticks ("deep fried cheesy delight" that really holds up to its descriptio~). and Cheesy Garlic Bread. Prices range from $1.25 to $6.95. 
• Pizza is offered in three sizes (12, 14, and 16 inch) with both thick or thin crusts and nine items to choose from. Soon, Macri plans to expand the menu to offer fourth size, 18 inches, and five more toppings. 
As far as pizza goes, Macri offers two unique items that are worth a try: New York Style Pizza with "very thick crust, extra toppings and extra cheese" (weighs about six pounds) and Jimmy Cricket Pie, "a stuffed pizza shaped like a football with your favorite toppings." 
•Sandwiches 
(eight inches) are served hot-most on an Italian sub roll, all with fresh meat, cheese and vegetables. Choices include Italian Roast Beef, Meatball, Italian Sausage, and Rueben with prices ranging from $2.95 to $4.95. With the new menu, Macri wants to add four-inch sandwiches for lunch. 

•Traditional 
Italian pasta dinners (including Spaghetti, Baked Mostaccioli, and Baked Lasagna) are served with bread, soup or salad are priced from $5.50 to $7.95. 


"Everything we have goes over real well," said Macri. 
Located in the Georgetown Shopping Center, Macri's is adjacent to Shenanigan's. The two establishments have a unique relationship, according to Macri. "One hand washes the other," he said. 
Macri's family dining area (open 11 a.m. to 9 p.m Tuesdays to Saturdays and noon until midnight on Sunday) has an 8.4-person capacity, said Macri. If the number of customers exceeds this number, those aged 21 and over can be seated in Shenanigan's. 
After 10 p.m. each night the accordion wall between the two is opened and those sitting in Macri's are free to listen to any band or comedian that might be playing at the club. 
Customers, quality, and great food are important to Macri, and it shows. While the restaurant's furnishings may be surprisingly simple, there is nothing ordinary about food and customer treatment at Macri's. 
Macri's Pizza and Italian Restaurant is located at 52303 Emmons Road and can be reachetl at 271-2055. 
~--------~-~~ ------~---~--~---~-------~-~----~-------------~ 
Monday, March 20, 1992 The Observer page 15 
NHL talks continue as strike deadline nears 
TORONTO (AP) -After 22 me tonight or tomorrow morn­tors, a shorted draft and better hours of negotiating with play­ing, I will be available," Ziegler benefits. Owners elaim they ers, NHL officials huddled for said. "We can settle this on the can't afford what players want. nearly seven more Sunday to telephone because the negotiat­"We're waiting to hear from consider new proposals as time ing committee has that author­them," union chief Goodenow ran down on the deadline for ity. said earlier in the day. "The the first strike in the league's ''If there's something to be players worked extraordinarily 75-year history. done, we can do it." hard to put something together. 
The NHL Players Association, Ziegler warned that a lengthy I'm hopeful it will work." without a collective bargaining settlement process could soon No games are scheduled BOSTON -Larry Bird agreement since Sept. 15, pre­have an effect on the Stanley Monday, but five are set for 

11 of his 20 points in sented two new plans during Cup playoffs. Tuesday night. The playoffs, in 
period as the Boston 
the marathon session at a 'There comes a time when we which owners get a large per­
opened a 19-point lead 
Toronto hotel. The union is set run out of time just because of centage of the income, are 
breezed-• to their sixth str 
to strike at noon Monday, leav­building availability," he said. scheduled to start April 8. ing in doubt the final six days of "The calendar is slipping by." "It's premature to do any the regular season and the Ziegler's opinion of progress speculating," said Milke Gartner 
three 

Stanley Cup playoffs. probably represented the mid­of the New York Hangers, a Atlanta,"We came very close, but we dle of the road. Marcel Aubut, member of the negotiating took a 35'-16 lead in 
couldn't close the gap," NHL president of the Quebec committee. "There's a strike 
period and extended it to 
president John Ziegler said at Nordiques, and Bob Pulford, deadline at noon. The owners' before the Hawks, who an extraordinary 5 a.m. news senior vice president of the committee has to decide on a 
won three in a row and six 
conference. "As I look at the is­Chicago, Blackhawks, ex­proposal." 
eight previous starts, went on sues, I feel we are fairly close pressed differing opinions. Ziegler, looking exhausted at 
15-5 rn,O:.to close to 61-44 
on the essential issues that the "The counter proposal by the the news conference, indicated players care about. That's my players is not far from our the situation was fluid. ···Ali h~vm~~ainbie ted the opinion. Their lawyers might own," Aubut said. "The two "The talks might resume 
with22 points
think otherwise." proposals, one by the players Sunday night or Monday in 
But Ziegler, who talked ear­union and one by the bargain­Toronto," he said. "And Bob lier in the days with Bob ing committee are not that far Goodenow and I plan to keep in Goodenow, executive director of apart, I don't see any reason for touch by phone today. . .. the NHL Players Association, a strike." Everybody worked hard and did said Sunday evening from Bob Pulford was not at all their best on both sides. Now Chicago during a break in the optimistic. we'll have to wait and see what governor's meeting that a set­"To me, it doesn't look good," the board says." tlement could be only a phone he said. Asked if he was optimistic call away. Players want liberalized free about the situation, Ziegler said 
"If Goodenow wants to call agency, independent arbitra-with a smile: "I'm tired." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary"s office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Grad student seeking House­ Furnished:  NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation  ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL  WANT COED HOUSING?  
NOTICES  sitting position for summer. Will care for plants & pets.  Turtlecreek Court Townhouse Available for summer rental  please call Neal at 283-1159  COUPLE. HAPPILY MARRIED, FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG  Sign the Petition  
Mature & Responsible. Call  Please contact 277-6259  BEADS?????PAT OBRIEN'S???  BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO  Mon 3/30-Wed 4/1  
WORD PROCESSING  Yanxi 277-7876.  ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY  
256-6657  Attractive studio's in lovely old  WHP.T IS SO CRAZY???  INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF  NEED A RIDE TO  
Now taking aplication for part-time  Mansion 1/2 mile from ND 225­ FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND  RALEIGH/DURHAM AREA FOR  
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  employment in a  300/Mo. plus deposit. Call  2879624  I DO NOT UNDERSTAND????  PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S  EASTER BREAK? Looking for 1 or  
Pandora's Books  Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop  for summer and fall rentals.  ADVANTAGES.  EXPENSES PAID.  2 people to share driving, gas, tolls,  
corner of ND ave & Howard  exp. required.  JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933­ etc.  Call Laura x4804  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306  Custom-made HAIR-BOWS  3499.  The Notre Dame Council on  
TYPING AVAILABLE  -fisheries. Earn $5.000+/month.  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  International Business  
287-4082.  Free transportation! Room & Board!  FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy  by Lynn and Sally  Jet there anytime for $169 from the  Development's Citizen Democracy  
Over 8,000 openings. No  3-story house, ample parking,  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  Corps  
Typing Pickup & Delivery  experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program  security, close to ND. 272-5509.  call x2764  (when available) with AIRHITCH! (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.)  presents: The Polish Dilemma: An Economy  
277-7406  call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  I  FOR SALE  -various materials, designs and colors available- For details: AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  in Transition with: Mark Chudvinski,  
Seniors-Seniors  Need ride to North Carolina  I STRING TENNIS RACKETS  ADOPTION  President of the US/Poland  
Graduating and still don't have job plans? New company that has been actually adding hundreds of people thru dramatic expansion seeks motivated/ career oriented individuals to  May 8th or 9th Will split tolls and gas Call Dave 3633 Need a job for next year? Nanny for newborn in our Granger home, M-F, begin late Aug. Live in or out. 271­ Cheaper than the Eckl grips, stencils, whatever you need! Chuck x2226 For Sale: One way! ticket South Bend to  In thll heart of every woman, there is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to come out... hey nil STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  If you think it may be best for your baby and for you to consider adoption, please call us. We are a responsible, childless couple with values and traditions which offer a child security, 2 loving parents, and a warm home. We hope you will  Chamber of Commerce Monday March 30 7:30PM in the Hesburgh Center Vegh and the Woz-man are the gods of Indiana trivia. Call 1908 for  
help expansion into new markets. Interviews will be held on April 8 & 9 at Career and Placement. Call student liason at x3457 to set up  1935 I  FOR RENT  Spokane WA Monday, May 18 $200.00 Call x1499  Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  choose us to be the parents of your baby. Legal and Medical expenses paid. Please call Bill and Kathy, collect, at 219-322-8187.  details THE TUTUS ARE BACK... There I was, there I was, there I  
times.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  1 0 sp bike,$25  What is a "Greenfields" anyway?  was ... in a tutu  

 219-291-7153.  Chen 233-5735  -.  
I LOST/FOUND String of Pearls found outside Breen Phillips 3/19/92 Contact 101 O'Shag LOST: Black Case Swiss tote bag filled with books on 9th Hesburgh. Very important!! Call 273-9033.  I.  3 Bedroom Walk to Campus $555 Month 232 3616 COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12 NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. -Ironwood & Bulla-2 B/R -2 Bath ­available immediately-call287­0534 or 271-9268.  I TICKETS -FAST CASH-Need "any" 2 commencm't tix. Promise them now for big bucks ... PLEASEI! Karen 2770 PERSONAL  The lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN to thll athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin It puts the lotion on its skin, or else  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. Please, help me. If anyone out there has McDonald's Basketball Cards I  Mike from Fisher-You were at Senior Bar last Thursday night, wearing a blue­purple coat. The brunette from the end of the night would like to meet you. If you are unattached, please call Nancy at x2781. SO YOU SAY YOU'RE NOT FOND OF GEORGE BUSH ........ . I will take any extra graduation  
LOST: One gold hoop earring with a spiral pattern If found please return to 214 Farley or call x4049 LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! LOST! On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP­17B business calculator somewhere on campus. SERIOUS REWARD!!!! John x3588. I WANTED BE ON T.V. many needed for commericials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. Call (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-1678. SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373  1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794. NEEDED TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES TO SHARE FURNISHED OAKHILL CONDO FOR SUMMER AND/OR 92-93 YEAR. AMY @ 277-9452 Newly remodeled 4-bdrm, 2-bath home. Near Lafayette Square Townhomes. All kitchen appliances, washer/dryer. 2-car garage. $700/mo. Ref. & 10-mo. lease required. 277-4583. Summer sublet-Turtle Creek 2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466 SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAP!!! Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4 students rent negotiable. 2 bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt X3414 or 3410 ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, · 289-1993. Office near campus. I, myself, cannot. We are not strong You should be with us, feeling like we do ... Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514. RECOGNIZING & RESPONDING TO SEXUAL HARASSMENT will be the topic of discussion this evening (March 30) as part of CARE's Sexual  it gets the hose again. (Stupid.) Random Quotes From Cranks Creek (Finatlly) 32. Private Party at Driftwood· 17. The chili tastes like cigartettes 93. Small rocks. 69. 10 guys, 14 girls-Rob gets leftovers 87. Let's pick up a hitchhiker-Wait, that's Dennis! 06. Pass the pocket knofe and the car jack. 89. II anyone's getting a massage from me their going to be naked 12. Pillow fights 1 . Five minutes of hot water changed my life 0. Take a shower Pig Pen She sings a song and I listen to what it says-If you want a friend, feed any animal Ther•e's so much space, I cut me a piecE! with some fine wine,  need them. If I achieve nothing else in my life, at least I want to have the entire set. I will cosider buying, trading, or even accepting them as a gift. If you have any information at all concerning this please take baby steps to the phone and call Quinn at x2059. To The Notre Dame Family, I need your help. My three sisters, two brothers, and my mom and dad are coming for graduation in may. That means I need to find at least three extra gradution tickets. Is there anyone that could spare an extra ticket or two? I would appreciate any help. Please call Cris@ x4907. BREEN-PHILLIPS 2ND ANNUAL  tickets off your hands. Everyone I have ever met wants to see me sit among 1 ,800 others in black and receive my degree en masse. Call Liza at 283-4833 To The Notre Dame Family, I need your help. My three sisters, two brothers, and my mom and dad are coming for graduation in may. That means I need to find at least three extra gradution tickets. Is there anyone that could spare an extra ticket or two? I would appreciate any help. Please call Cris@ x4907. VOTE FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN SBA TREASURER. JAMIE O'BRIEN  
Female roommate wanted for May. Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $415/mo plus utilities. call (312) 975-5035.  for large 4-BR, furnished house. Complete security system; washer & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259­7801 or 255-5852.  Assault Awareness Week. All are welcome to this event which will take place at 7:30pm at the Montgomery Theater (LaFortune).  It bmught peace to my mind in the Summertime, And it rolled!  EUCHRE TOURNAMENT!! SIGN-UPS IN NOH AND SOH FROM TUES. MARCH 31 TO THURS. APRIL 2.  Garth Brooks is STILL a GOD!!I "Excuse me lady, but we have our own truck and we'd like a table"  

U.S. nearly ousted from Davis Cup 
Czech upset threat thwarted as Agassi saves day 
page 16 The Observer 

FORT MYERS, Fla. (AP)  - no sympathy.  Novacek  and  Czechoslovak  
Andre Agassi saved the U.S.  "There are two things I live  captain Tomas Smid became  
Davis Cup team from  an em­ by," Agassi said. "You can never  enraged.  
barrassing  collapse.  His  drive too far for Taco Bell, and  "That terrible call didn't give  
Czechoslovak opponent fell  you can never beat somebody  me much of a chance," Novacek  
apart instead.  too bad, especially in Davis  said.  
Agassi beat Karel Novacek 7­ Cup."  Agassi  finally  won  the  
6 (7-5), 6-0, 6-0, giving the  Agassi has yet to reach  a  tiebreaker with a backhand  
Americans a shaky 3-2 quarter­ tournament quarterfinal this  winner that kissed the baseline.  
final  victory Sunday at the  year, and  an  0-3 record in  Then, Novacek came unglued,  
Sonesta  Sanibel  Harbour  Grand Slam finals has saddled  continually knocking ground­ 
Resort.  him with a reputation for losing  strokes long or into the net. He  
Before Agassi won, the U.S.  big matches.  won only six points in the sec­ 
team was in danger of blowing  But the colorful, controversial  ond set and 17 in the third.  
a  2-0 lead for the first time  21-year-old baseliner won all  "I felt OK, except I don't know  
since 1960. The Czechoslovaks  six  sets  against  the  how to win a point," Novacek  
upset John McEnroe and Rick  Czechoslovaks and improved to  said.  
Leach in doubles Saturday, then  16-4 in Davis Cup, with seven  "lf you look at my record  
drew even in Sunday's first sin­ consecutive wins.  when I'm playing my best ten­ 
gles match when Petr Korda  ''I'm taking positive steps to­ nis," Agassi said, "I usually  
beat Pete Sampras in four sets.  ward achieving my full poten­ have a tough early set and then  
"To go  out in  a  situation  tial," he said. "Today was a big  break away down the stretch. I  
where it boils down to you and  step for me."  think I make a person work and  
your country, it's unequaled  ...  The Americans advanced to a  stay focused. It's wearing on the  
especially when you spend a  September semifinal match  body and the mind, and that's  
day and a half thinking you've  against Sweden, which com­ my strength."  
got it won," Agassi said. "A  pleted a 5-0 quarterfinal victory  
Grand Slam final doesn't even come close to that." lie recorded a similar save in last September's semifinal  over Australia on Sunday. The United States, which has a 5-1 record against Sweden, will choose the site (probably  Agassi finished the match with an ace and collapsed face­first on the court, hands to his eyes. He and McEnroe then  Comes up short AP File Photo Nick Faldo made a late charge at the Players Championship, but he finished four shots behind Davis Love Ill's winning score of -15.  
against Germany. The Americans squandered a 2-0 lead before Agassi beat Carl­Uwe Steeb in the final match for a 3-2 victory. Novacek, ranked 12th in the world, said a disputed line call in the tiebreaker was partly to blame for his unraveling. Regardless, as the Czechoslovak's unforced errors rapidly rose to 64, Agassi felt  Minneapolis) and surface (probably clay) for the semifi­nal. Novacek, a clay-court special­ist playing on a hardcourt, saved eight break points and six set points in the opening set. But he was fighting a losing battle. When an Agassi crosscourt forehand was ruled good to give him a 4-2 lead in the tiebreaker,  held an American flag aloft to cheers from a crowd of 5,100. The victory made Tom Gorman the winningest U.S. Davis Cup captain ever. In seven years, Gorman has led the team to 15 victories, one more than Tony Trabert. "I feel great about that," Gorman said. "This is not gel in my hair. This is wonderful champagne."  In the day's first match, Korda took the sting out of Sampras' serve-and-volley game with pinpoint passing shots to win 6­4, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3. "I would have loved more than anything to clinch today," Sampras said. "I didn't serve well all day, and when I'm not serving well, my whole game is  not as good." Korda had 55 unforced errors Friday in a loss to Agassi but took control from Sampras at the outset. The American tried to mount a comeback and broke serve in the opening game of the fourth set, but Korda broke back in the next game, broke again for a 5-3 lead and served out the match at love.  

BOOKSTORE TOURNAMENT 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 1992 
First round games for Monday, Mar. 30 whore's borokowski v. dribbling cheetahs, 6:15p.m. Regional 

Dis Les Pipe v. Mrs. Maher is hot, 6:15p.m. Can't run, jump or shoot-chicks love us anyways v. 

Albuquerque, N.M. Tejas tornadoes, 5:30p.m. 
Florida St. 74 Stepan 4 Back off, we're gonna shoot v. Shallow Thoughts, Indiana 106 
HPC, Hannibal Lechler, Jeff Dahmer and 2 other 6:15p.m.

.­
guys who will take you to lunch v. The Monostat 

Indiana 85 5, 4 p.m. Lyons 11 Kamikaze Leftovers-the sequel v. We're good Severe Chafing II -Cat Scratch Fever v. 2 Mikes, 2 APrThe Observer, Ann-Marie Conrado enough, we're smart enough and gosh dam n. Dans and Dick, 4 p.m. people like us. 4:45p.m. Arnold Ale, Erik Simien, BJ Hawkins and 2 other Air Zebra and the backboard maintenance men v. guys who know that the best view of the Golden 
DAVIS CUP RESULTS TRANSACTIONS NCAA BOXES 
State of Nature (Nasty. brutish and short). 5:30p.m. Dome is in the rear-view mirror, v. Jeffrey Phi Slamma Gramma v. Margaret Nowlin Want-to-Dahmer and 4 other guys you cut to get the ball, WORLD GROUP BASEBALL MICHIGAN (24-8) 
be's, 6:15p.m. 4:45p.m. At Fort Myers, Fla. American League R.Jackson 2-3 0-0 5, Webber 9-12 5-7 23, HorticuHuralists v. Goulash tacos, 5:30 p.m. United States. 3, Czechoslovakia 2 CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Sent Jeff Carter, Howard 4-9 2-210, Rose 6-14 7-8 20, King 7-10 0­Stepan 5 Slimfast presents Mark Fitz World Tour v. Busty, Singles Ramon Garcia and Chris Howard, pitchers; 0 15, Pelinka 0-2 0-0 0, Riley t-3 0-0 2, Voskuil 0-1 
By George, we're good this year v. the Steins, 4 Crusty and 3 other lusty ustys, 6;15 p.m. Petr Korda, Czechoslovakia, del. Pete Sampras, Esteban Beitre, infielder; Derek Lee, outlielder, to 0-0 0, Hunter 0-0 0-0 0, Totals 29-54 14-17 75. 
p.m. Bradenton, Fla., 6-4, 6-3, 2-6, 6-3. Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League. Sent OHIO STATE (26-6) The Rex St. slam dunkin'. trash talkin', low ridin' Lyons 12 Andre Agassi, Las Vegas, del. Karel Novacek, Nelson Santovenia, catcher, to their minor league Jent 2-t2 0-0 6, J.Jackson 9-21 1-4 20, live v. the annoying boys, 4:45p.m. Barking Cliff Chickens v. the red team, 4 p.m. Czechoslovakia, 7-6 (7-5), 6-0, 6-0. camp lor reassignment. Funderburke 5-10 2-3 12, Baker 4-10 0-0 8, Brown 
5 guys that can outrebound, outshoot and outrun Dudes v. we just wasted 5 bucks, 4:45p.m. AI Lund, Swaden MINNESOTA TWIN&-Traded Paul Sorrento, 6-10 2-2 16, Robinson 2-4 0-0 4. SkeHon t-1 0-0 2, the ross. but who can't, v. automatic weapons. t.l. Splittin' that v. Gasworks, 5:30 p.m. Swaden 5, Australia 0 first baseman, to the Cleveland Indians lor Oscar Davis 0-0 3-3 3, Dudley 0-0 0-0 0, Totals 29-68 8­and 3 other guys who shoot by themselves, 5:30 Jon, Joe~ Dr. Kevorkian and 2 other guys that Singles Munoz and Curt Leskanic, pitchers. 12 71. 
p.m. remind me of suicide v. Team 19, 6:15p.m. Stefan Edberg, Sweden, del. Wally Masur, NEW YORK YANKEES-Optioned Gerald Halftime-Michigan 37, Ohio State 31. Australia, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4). Williams, outlielder, to Columbus of the Regulation-Michigan 63, Ohio State 63. 3-Point
NHL STANDINGS Christian Bergstrom, Sweden, del. Richard international League. goals-Michigan 3-8 (R.Jackson 1-t, King 1-1, Fromberg, Australia, 6-4, 7-5. TEXAS RANGER&-Sent Gerald Alexander, Rose 1-3, Webber, 0-1, Peiinka 0-1, Voskuil 0-1).
WALES CONFERENCE x-ctinched playoff berth. 

Barry Manuel, Roger Pavlik, Bob Sabra and Mike Ohio State 5-18 (Brown 2-4, Jent 2-7, J.Jackson 1­
l'lltrlck Dlvllolon y-won division ti~e. 

AI Nlmea, France Jeffcoat, pitchers, to Oklahoma Crty of the 6, Baker 0-1). Rebounds-Michigan 25 (Webber
w L T Pis GF GA 

Switzerland 3, France 2 American Association. t1), Ohio State 31 (Funderburke, Robinson 8).
y-NY Rangers 49 24 5 103 312 241 Saturday's Gernea 

Singles National League Assists-Michigan 13 (Rose 4), Ohio State 12
x-Washlngton 44 26 7 95 324 267 Detrort 3, Vancouver 1 

Jakob Hiasek, Switzerland, del. Thierry CHICAGO CUB&-Sent Turk Wendell and Jim (Baker 5). Technicals-Howard, Jent. A-23,047.
x-New Jersey 37 29 11 85 281 247 Boston 4, Buffalo 3, OT 

Champion, France. 6-3, 4-6, 7-6 (8-6). Bullinger, pitchers; George Pedro, catcher; Roy 
x-Pittsburgh 37 30 9 83 331 290 New Jersey 5, Quebec 2 

Arnaud Boetsch, Franca, del. Marc Rosse!, Sanchez and Doug Strange, infleldars; Cod 
NY Islanders 32 34 tO 74 275 290 N.Y. Islanders 4, N.Y. Rangers 1 

Switzariand, 6-4, 6-4 (best of three). Landrum, outfielder, to iowa of the American MEMPHIS ST. (23-11)
Philadelphia 31 34 t1 73 238 257 Chicago 3, Hartford 1 

At Mecelo, Brazil Association. Placed Mike Harkey, prtcher, on the Hardaway 4-9 1-2 12, Vaughn 3-7 3-6 9, Douglas
Adame Division Pittsburgh 6, Montreal 3 

Brazil 2, ltely 1 60-day disabled list. 2-4 0-2 4, Madlock 2-5 t-3 5, B.Smrth 5-17 0-0 11,
y-Montreal 41 27 tO 92 262 200 Calgary 4, Minnesota 3 

Doubles LOS ANGELES DODGER&-Piaced Rudy E.Smith t-6 5-6 8, Allen 0-0 2-2 2, Duncan 3-5 0-0
x-Boaton 34 32 tO 78 254 263 Toronto 3, St. Louis 2 

Fernando Roese and Cassio Mona, Brazil, del. Seanez, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list. 6, Nolan 0-1 0-0 0, Haynes 0-0 0-0 0, Mundt 0-0 0­
x-Buffalo 30 34 11 7t 275 280 Sunday's Gemn 

Omar Camporese and Diego Nargiso, Italy, 6-1, 6-Purchased the contract of Mitch Webster, 0 0 0, Mitchell 0-1 0-0 0, Young 0-1 0-0 0, D.Scott 
x-Hartlord 2<4 40 12 60 234 270 Late games not included 

2, 5-7, 3-6, 6-3. outlielder, from Albuquerque of the Pacific Coast 0-0 0-0 o. Totals 20-56 t2-21 57. 
Quebec 18 47 11 47 239 306 Washington 7, Vancouver 4 

League. CINCINNATI (29-4)
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Philadelphia, 5, New Jersey 4 

AMERICAN ZONE MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Bill Nelson 2-4 2-2 6, Jones 9-t3 4-4 23, Blount 5-8
Norrlto Division Sen Jose at Winnipeg 

Group I Landrum, prtcher, on a one-year contract. Loaned 3-5 13, Buford 4-7 6-6 15, Van E•ei 8-t1 2-4 22,
w L T Pie GF GA Detroo at N.Y. Islanders 

AI Montevideo, Unuguey Steve Frey, pHcher, to Edmonton of the Pacific Martin 3-4 2-3 8, J.Scon 0-1 0-0 0, Jackson 0-2 0-0
x-Detroit 40 25 11 9t 302 2<46 Hartford at Buffalo, (n) 

Uruguey 3, Mexico 1 Coast League. Sent Jerry Goff, catcher, to their 0, Gibson 0-1 0-0 0, Ward 0-0 1-2 1, Reicheneker 
x-Chicago 35 27 14 84 245 225 Los Angeles at Edmonton, (n) 

Singles minor league camp lor reassignment. 0-t 0-0 0. Totals 31-52 20-26 88. 
x-St. Louis 34 33 tO 78 268 259 Toronto at Chicago, (n) 

Marcelo Filippini, Uruguay, del. Leonardo PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE&-Piaced Ricky Halftime-Cincinnati 46, Memphis St. 38. 3-Point 
Minnesota 31 40 5 67 233 262 

Lavalle, Mexico, 6-3, 7-6 (7-3) and 6-2. Jordan, first baseman, and Ken Howell, pitcher, on goals-Memphis St. 5-22 (Hardaway 3-7, E.Smrth
Toronto 29 40 7 65 225 275 Monday'eO...... 

Group II the 15-day disabled list retroactive to March 27. t-4, B.Smith 1-7, Madlock 0-1, Duncan 0-1, Nolan 
Smythe Dlv'-lon No games scheduled 

At Santiago, Chile PITISBURGH PIRATE&-Piaced Don Slaugh!, 0-1, Young 0-1), Cincinnati 6-14 (Van Exel 4-5,
y-Vancouver 41 25 11 93 277 238 Tllesday'• a-

Cube 4, Chile 1 catcher, on the t5-day disabled list. Jones 1-3, Buford 1-3, Jackson 0-1, Gibson 0-1,
x-Los Angeles 34 30 13 8t 277 290 Chicago at Detrort, 7:35 p.m. 

Singles ST. LOUIS CARDINAL&-Sent Jeff Ballard and Reicheneker 0-t). Fouled out-Hardaway.
x-Edmonton 35 32 9 79 283 280 Philadelphia at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. 

Mario Tabares, Cuba, del. Felipe Rivera, Chile, Paul Kilgus, pitchers; Luis Alicea, infielder; Jose Rebounds-Memphis St. 29 (Hardaway, Douglas,
Winnipeg 29 32 15 73 230 231 Boston at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. 

6·3, 4-6. 6-4, 7-5. Fernandez, catcher, to Louisville of the American Allen 4), Cincinnati 36 (Jones 13).
Calgary 29 36 11 69 280 292 Buffalo at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. 

Juan Plno, Cuba, del. Pedro Reboiiedo, Chile, t-Association. Sent Fidel Compres, prtcher, to Assists-Memphis St. 9 (Madlock 4), Cincinnati 13
San Jose 17 54 5 39 204 338 Edmonton at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. 

6,6-3, 11-9. Arkansas of the Texas League. (Bufotd 4). A-t4,850. 
Semifinals Minneapolis April 4 Championships 
Stepan 1 Stepan 6 March 28 Break Like the Wind v. Team 372, 4 p.m. 3 Caucasians, a Hawaiian and a Negro who can't I Like You Betty v. The Shockers, 4:45p.m. jump v. Flipper and the Undertoes, 4 p.m. The Silk Igloos v. The Shot Club: Starring JB. JD, Observer v. 5 Gins who love to play with balls, 4:45 
and a Wild Turkey, 5:30p.m. p.m. 
Duke t04 OT
Muzza v. One guy, another guy, and 3 other guys, Cheerio Blirps v. No Blood. No foul. 5:30 p.m. 6:15p.m. Cherry Pickers v. Pooh and the danglers, 6:15p.m. 

Stepan 2 Bookstore 9 Philadelphia 
Laertes' Despotic Rule v. Team Skiooth '92, 4 p.m. We may dribble too much but we always score v. Team 224 v. Logan Canter "B" Team, 4:45 p.m. Michelle Hamrick and her Jet Stream, 4 p.m. Scowl, the Rocket and 3 Girls trying to score v. Ball Busters v. Attack of the Phyjitus-lipped gravity Kentucky t03 
Whoops, 5:30 p.m. baasts, 4:45p.m. Lazy American Workers v. What's up with that. 6:15 5 Brooklyn Bowlers from Brooklyn v. NBA p.m. Bleached, 5:30p.m. WIH Chamberlain' Love Children v. 10 Minutes to Stepan 3 Wapner, 6:15p.m. The Knobs v. A foreogner. another foreigner and 3 lazy Americans. 4 p.m. Bookstore 1 0 Recommendled Daily Allowance v. The Swedish Sweet intoxication (Everybody Wang Chung UCLA 79 Chef and 4 Meatballs, 4:45p.m. Tonight) v. Coast to Coast, 4 p.m. The Thundering Herd v. Pee-Wee Herman's School CJ's Voodoo skyboHers of love v. The Nuclear of Ball Handling, 5:30 p.m. Power, 4:45p.m. 
Semifinals March 26
.., 
Duke 81 
Seton Hall 69 
Mass. 77 
Kentucky 87 
UCLA 85 New Mexico St. 78 

TOP FOOit itEfiSOHS TO GET YOOit SEHIOit YEfiitBOOK POiUitfiiT TfiKEH TttiS SPitiHG: 
4) SAVE BOCKS. Pay 50°/o less on the traditi~'nal sitting fee than you would in the fall. 
3) BE ~~OUttTED. 1~r you will be abroad first semester senior year. this will be your only chance to get your portrait into next years yearbook. 
2) tiO OGLIES. Get them taken now. and if you dont like the wray they turn out. you can take them again in the fall. 
1) LOOK DARK. Sport that tremendous Spring Break tan in1 your portrait. 


MAitCH 30-APitiL 3 
SIGtl OP AT THE LAFORT01ttE ltiFORMATIOtl DESK 

~------------------------·---~· ·---~----·----~-·· ·-·---­
page 18 The Observer Monday, March 20, 1992 
Laettner rewriting NCAA record books 

PHILADELPHIA (AP) -All Christian Laettner needed for the NCAA tournament career scoring record were 10 points. 
He knew that coming in. As it turned out, he had bigger lOs to pursue. 
To get defending champion Duke into the NCAA Final Four again, Laettner needed to go 1 0-for-1 0 from the free throw line and 10-for-10 from the field, including his turnaround jumper as time ran out in over­time Saturday night to beat Kentucky 104-103. 
"The tougher shots I think I make are the ones from the • free throw line, because it's stop-action," said Laettner, whose 31 points gave him a record 380 in NCAA tourna­ment games. . 
Now Laettner has put himself in position for another NCAA 
Utes 
continued from page 24 
coach John MacLeod said. "And they bang the boards about as hard as any team I've ever seen. We've got to keep them from getting second shots and we've got to be patient on offense." 
MacLeod, who left Madison Square Garden last year under strained circumstances, returns Monday under more pleasant conditions. 
MacLeod became Notre Dame's coach in May after re­signing from the New York Knicks following a losing sea­son and a first-round loss in the NBA playoffs. Now is he preparing to lead the Irish against Utah in the semifinals of the National Invitation Tournament. 
"I've always liked New York," MacLeod said at a news confer­ence Sunday. "I enjoyed coming 
r~·..··-------------,:.J).Q ~ ~.... Heartland Taas Bar-B-Que am Dance Hall '\? 0 ~ ~ 
7 'mE MARSHAlL 1UCKER BAND 'f ' Live in Concert I / Thmy, Aprn2, 1992 1 
!.J TicketJ e rra!able fer jmt $10.00, only i Heartland {; 
f~ •kPJI\IIi:l@ifJjmll'!!iWIIIi•liill:@ila 0 (l Fer rbat'1 in 1kn.t atbcle lot more...219-234-5200 FJ 

a~, --:-~\) 
• ~IONDAY M\11 TUESDAY ••• APRIL 13 AND 14 •• • 
TRENT • •
ARTERBERRY • • 

.."' 
8:10p.m~ •• 
•
Washington Hall • • 
•
Tirl:ets: $S-\"otrc Dame • anu Saint \lary's Student' •
•
$10-Gcncral Admission 
• 
$.'i-{:hiluren (12 and under) • Group rates a1·ailablc. •
•
LaFonune Center Box Office • 
\lime Trem Arterberry moves throul(h a series of contemporarY scenes • with a unique athletic !(race and presence. His show ranges from hilariou' •
•
descriptive mime ro interpretive dance anu induues improl·isational 
• 
'ketche~ with audience participation. Arterberry began studving mime in • the '70s with such masters as 1\larcell\larceau. •• 
Christian Laettner 
tournament record. His two steals against the Wildcats moved him within one of Mookie Blaylock's record 32 steals for Oklahoma. 
He also had seven rebounds against Kentucky for a total of 152, one below seventh-place Hakeem Olajuwon on the all­time tournament list. 
here when I was with Phoenix and Dallas, and I had a great time here with the Knicks. I have nothing but good feelings about the place." 
The Irish, who have never won the NIT but twice been runner-up, are led by the senior trio of LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett. Ellis, a 6-foot-8 forward, leads the team in scoring (17. 7) and rebounding (11.8). Sweet averages 17.2 points per game, while backcourt partner Bennett contributes 15.9 points and 6.2 assists per game. 
"They're all very good play­ers," Majerus said. "Bennett creates ofT the dribble, Sweet is a great scorer and Ellis is really tough down low." 
Tonight's game will start at approximately 9:20 p.m., fol­
lowing the first semifinal be­tween Virginia and Florida. The game will be televised on ESPN. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 

Laettner had long put away the scoring record when he nailed the game-winner as time ran out. 
He didn't know he was per­fect for the game when he hit it. "I wasn't sure," he said. "I thought I missed one." 
Laettner had given Duke its second NCAA tournament ca­reer record in three days in the first half, when he scored his 359th point. Guard Bobby Hurley claimed the assist record Thursday night against Seton Hall. 
Hurley, for one, was im­pressed by his teammate's per­fect shooting. 
"He's had some games when his points were maybe louder," Hurley said. "But when he got the ball he was extremely effec­tive." 
Kentucky's Jamal Mashburn, for another, also was im­pressed. Mashburn, who led the Wildcats with 28 points, ironi­cally didn't get a chance to try and stop Laettner at the finish. He fouled out with 14.1 seconds left -with Laettner going to the line and hitting two free throws. 
"He's a great player," Mashburn said. "He has a lot of moves. He can put the ball on the floor. He can shoot the 3. He's a very difficult player to match up against." 
Laettner's 1Oth point of the game, on a layup from the right side with 6:51 left in the half, surpassed the 358 of Houston's Elvin Hayes, who set the record in 13 games from 1966-68. This was Laettner's 21st game. 
Laettner had scored his first eight points in the first fiye minutes of the game. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Ctmter is open Mon-Fri from 7 a.m. to 4 


p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
•Irish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staiT can pick up entry forms at RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball team captains who don't have their schdules stop by the S.U.B. office on the second floor of LaFortune to pick up a copy of the schedules and a team list for your team. Preliminaries start on Monday. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball late sign-ups ... call Eileen or Tracy_at 283-1093 by 7 p.m. on Monday. 


Split men's track squads fare well 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

The Irish men's track team split their squad for last week­end, sending athletes to meets in Raleigh, N.C., and Tus­caloosa, Ala. Breaking up the team posed few problems for the Irish as they posted strong individual showings in each meet. 
At the USAir/Nike Raleigh Relays at North Carolina State, all seven of the Irish athletes participating placed in their events. The strongest event for NO proved to be the 5000 me­ters, with five runners placing. 
In one section, Nate Ruder's time of 14 minutes, 46.3 sec­onds ranked him third, while sixth place belonged to Pat Kearns, who ran the course in 
Be the first to own the hot new releases from 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN 
or 

DEF LEPPARD 
Shop from 12:01 -1:30 A.M. for a special price on these long-awaited recordings . 
While supplies last. 

1631 Edison Rd I South Bend I (219) 277-8338 
14:53.6. John Cowan finished 11th with a time of 15:01. 
In the other section of the 5000, seventh place went to John Coyle (14:37.36) shaded teammate Mike McWilliams' eighth-place time of 14:40.2. 
Irish runners performed equally well in the shorter dis­tance events. Co-captain Brian Peppard placed fourth in his section of the 800 meters with a time of 1:54.71. In the 1500, Shawn Schneider finished sev­enth, completing the course in 3:57.6. 
Meanwhile, at the University of Alabama, two members of the NO squad had impressive showings in their events. With a throw of 63.3 meters, senior Ryan Mihalko placed second in the javelin. In'the high jump, Todd Herman cleared 6-9 3/4, placing him fourth. 
--·-~-----------------~------------~-·-----~­
Monday, March 30, 1992 The Observt3r page 19 

Michigan, Cincinnati fill last two spots in Final Four 
Bearcats knock off Memphis St. for fourth time this season, 88-57 Freshmen lead Wolverines past Ohio State 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-The Fab Five are freshmen no more. 
"They grew up. We looked like the team that hadn't been there before," Ohio State's Jim Jackson said Sunday after Michigan's precocious freshmen earned a trip to the Final Four by beating the Buckeyes 75-71 in overtime. 
Chris Webber was the most fabulous freshman, scoring 23 points, grabbing 11 rebounds and blocking five shots. 
He sent the game into over­time with a powerful followup shot that tied it at 63 with 31 seconds left. The 15th-ranked Wolverines then dominated the extra period, outscoring Ohio State 12-4 over the first 4 1/2 minutes before the third­ranked Buckeyes scored two meaningless baskets at the end. 
Webber did it all despite an upset stomach, brought on by nervousness, that kept him up half the night. 
"I only got a couple hours of sleep," he said. "I didn't feel well last night. I didn't feel well this morning. I only got over it a couple of minutes ago." 
The Michigan fresh­men-Webber, Jalen Rose, Jimmy King, Juwan Howard and Ray Jackson-were widely regarded as the best single recruiting class ever. No one, however, expected them to go so far in one year. 
No one except themselves. 
"At the beginning of the year, 
we always talked about going to 
the Final Four," Webber said. 

"During the year, the coaches convinced us we could do it. This week, their scouting report convinced us we could do it." 
Rose scored six of his 20 points in overtime, including two free throws with 32.4 sec­onds remaining that sealed it. Following Duke's 104-103 overtime victory over Kentucky on Saturday, it was the first time in NCAA tournament his­tory that two regional finals have gone into overtime. 
The sixth-seeded Wolverines, the lowest seed to make the Final Four since No. 6 Kansas won the national title in 1988, will play Cincinnati next week­end in Minneapolis. 
It was Michigan's first win in three tries against Ohio State (26-6), and it kept alive coach Steve Fisher's dream of a sec­ond national championship in four years. Michigan (24-8) won it in 1989 after Fisher replaced Bill Frieder as head coach. 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)­
Cincinnati stopped Memphis 
State for the fourth time 
Sunday. Next stop -the Final 
Four. 
The 12th-ranked Bearcats got 
big games from Herb Jones and 
Nick Van Exel to beat Memphis 
State 88-57 and claim the 
Midwest Regional title, sending 
them to their first Final Four 
since 1963. 
The Bearcats' roster doesn't 
include a marquee player, but · they play outstanding defense, have good depth and don't let up. They simply wore out Memphis State, beating the Tigers for the fourth time this season and handing them their worst loss since a 30-point vic­
tory by Louisville in 1981. 
''I'm kind of numb. I don't 
really know what to say," said 
coach Bob Huggins, who is in 
his third year at Cincinnati. "We 
don't have egos and people who 
worry about statistics. We've 
just got guys who want to win." 
Cincinnati (29-4) will play 
Michigan, a 75-71 overtime 
winner over Ohio State, in the 
NCAA tournament semifinals 
Saturday in Minneapolis. The 
Michigan victory prevented an­
other big-stakes Cincinnati­
Ohio State clash. The Bearcats 
beat Ohio State for the national 
championship in 1961 and '62. 
Memphis State, like 
Cincinnati a member of the 
first-year Great Midwest 
Conference, ends its season 23­
11. 

The Great Midwest becomes 
the first conference to send a 
team to the Final Four in its 

Herb Jones 

first year since the Sun Belt did it in 1977 with North Carolina­Charlotte. 
The Bearcats won the first three games by an average of 11 points, holding Memphis State to no better than 43 per­cent shooting. The Tigers only hit 36 percent Sunday while Cincinnati shot 60 percent. 
"It's not always the team personnel-wise that's better," Memphis State coach Larry Finch said. "They execute and they do things they have to do, what else can I say? They've done it convincingly each time." 
Van Exel scored 22 points and killed the Tigers with his 3­point shooting. He had one in the first half to punctuate a run that gave the Bearcats the lead for good, and added three more in the second half as Cincinnati pulled away. 
Jones had 23 points and 13 rebounds, helping the Bearcats outrebound Memphis State by seven. Cincinnati had outre­bounded the Tigers by eight per game in three previous meet­ings this season. 

Men's tennis take 5th at Blue-Gray 
Special to the Observer number-two singles Andy 
Zurcher trounced AtleyThe fifth-ranked Notre Dame Williams, 6-1, 6-2. 
STUDENT WORLD PREMIEB~ES 
-the best in student film &: video -wed. april 1st -7:00 &: 9:00 -at the snite ­
men's tennis team went 2-1 in Notre Dame's only loss in the 
the prestigious Blue-Gray match was Pierre Nielsson's 
National Classic over the week­victory over Tom North in 
end, capturing fifth place with number-five singles. There 
a 5-1 drubbing of Drake. were no doubles matches since 
In Sunday's victory against the outcome of the match had 
Drake, third-ranked Dave been decided early. 
DiLucia beat Martin Dionne, 6-Complete results will be in 
4, 7-5 in first singles, and in tomorrow's Observer. 
Move up to "MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS" 
• 2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments 
MERRILL LYNCH & CO. (4 Apartments per Building) CORPORATE FINANCE ANALYST PROGRAM 
• Locked Entry with Intercom System 
(Chicago Office) 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 


The .Investment Banking Division at Merrill Lynch recruits recent college graduates into the 

• 6 minutes from Campus 
Corporat~ Fma.nc~ Analyst Program, where they work with corporations and institutions. The division 
• Flexible lease terms 
acts as a fman.ctal Intermediary be~een corpor~tions and investors, offering financing alternatives and 
advi~ry serv1ces. New analysts Will talke part m a six·wcek training program in New York at Merrill 
• Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent 
Lynch s World Headquarters before joining the Midwest Industri!ll Banking Group in Chicago. 
For further infonnation call 277-3731 
. While this has traditionally been a tw<ryear position, a number of analysts are invited to remain 
Located at Cleveland and Bendix for a thtrd year, and several of these are hired as first-year associates after completing their third year . 
.Whe~ considering candi~ates f~r the positions in the firm, we look for a record of outstanding ac~denuc achievement: extracumcular mvolvement, work exp~rience, and demonstrated leadership sktlls. Successful candtdates are articulate, able to write effectively, and able to work well with others. 
BREEN-PHILLIPS' 2ND ANNUAL 
We I~k favorably on degrees in all subjects, though some familiarity with accounting, econ~rrucs, finance, and computers is helpful. Knowledge of these areas suggests an ability t~ readilv acqutre the tools needed for quantitative analytical work. • 
EUCHRE TOURNAMENT 
~I of these positions require a commitment to meet a demanding pace as well as the energy to 
TO BENEFIT11-iE
see a pr~)ect th~ugh, often under pressure. Merrill Lynch offers a competitive compensation pack~ge and an mnovatve relocation program. CATHOLIC WORKER HOUSE 
Poten~al candidates should submit a resume (no student profiles please) to the Car~~r and 
SIGN-UPS: TUES.-THURS. AT NDH &SDH
Placement Office no later than April 1, 1992. 
$5.00 FEE/ TEAM 

SMC teams enjoy successful weekend 
Tennis overcomes Meyer's upset, rolls to 8-1 win 
Observer Staff Report 
The Saint Mary's tennis team extended their season record to 6-4 on Saturday, defeating hosting rival Hope College, 8-1. 
Hope's Monica Earl captured the Flying Dutch's only win for the day, defeating 35th-ranked Ellen Mayer, 2-6, 6-1, 6-1. 
Marie Koscielski led the Belles in singles play, sweeping her opponent, Marie Van Tubbergen, 6-4, 6-1. Teammate Mary Cosgrove annihilated Kate Gingras, at third singles, 6-1, 6­2. 
Adding to the Belles victory were Natalie Kloepfer, who dismantled Mindy Marko in fourth singles, 6-1, 6-1, and Thayma Darby, who swept 

Natalie Kloepfer 
passed Wendy Murray, 6-1, 6-2. 
Playing last for the Belles was Andrea Ayers. Ayers struggled in her matchup against Denise Conley, narrowly defeating her opponent in a tight three-set victory, 6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 7-5. 
The Belles claimed a clean sweep of the doubles matchups. 

Number-one pair Mayer and Koscielski struggled in the first set, but gained control over their Flying Dutch,£•pponents, Earl and Van Tubbergen, walk­ing away with a 7-6 (7-4), 6-2. victory. 
Cosgrove and Ayers teamed up at second doubles, upsetting Gingras and Marko, 6-1, 6-1. 
Darby and Shannon McGinn finished out the Belles victory in a struggle with Murray and Jill Wyma. Taking the Darby and McGinn to a third set, the two Flying Dutch were unable to steal the victory, losing to the Belles' duo, 3-6,6-3,6-4. 
The Belles look to continue their winning ways against the University of Illinois-Chicago at home on Tuesday. 
Track finishes strong third at Huntington Invitational 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
Senior Lynn Pfeffer led the Saint Mary's track team to a third-place finish down at lluiltington College Saturday. 
Four teams competed in the Huntington meet-Grand Valley State University, Marion College, Huntington College and Saint Mary's. According to Belles coach Larry Szcze­chowski, the meet was very grueling, and became a contest for first place between Grand Valley and Marion. 
Although the Belles did not take first, Szczechowski is very pleased with the team's third­place finish. 
"It really wasn't that bad, even though it looks like it. It 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Irish cruised to a 7-2 victory. 
"It was a good weekend for us," Louderback said. "Obviously, we didn't want to lose to Wisconsin, but I thought coming in that 2-1 would be a good weekend." 
Doubles play has often been was a very tough meet. They are tough teams," he said. 
Pfeffer flew into a first-place position in the javelin, throwing for 106 feet. nine inches. Pfeffer also captured fourth place in the triple jump, leaping 32-4. 
"Lynn threw very well, espe­cially under the conditions for her javelin throw. It was very muddy," said Szczechowski. 
The Belles 400-meter relay team of Katie Linehan, Sandy Macklin, Paula Brenton and Moja Brennan swept second place at the meet, running in a time of 55.01 seconds. 
Linehan also captured two more fourth-place finishes in the 100-and 200-meters. Linehan ran the two races in 
14.03 and 29.09, respectively. 
the key for the Irish this season, and it was again this weekend. Louderback is happy with the play of his doubles teams, although th.ey have dropped some close matches against quality competition. 
"Our doubles teams have played well, but they've just been in a lots of tough matches," he explained. "They put it all together against Kansas and we could have 
rrn"--J ,@c::::\.__·-~, 272-8124
·?1 urt1e ·~ /reeJ{. 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
A&ordable Student Housing 
~~ ND-SMC 
~~ ~r:, STUDENTS
r;,~G~f.~  19th Annual Program  
,~  ROME  
LONDON  June 14-July 13  
May 20-June 19  Travel in France,  
Travel in Ireland,  Germany, and  

Scotland, and France Switzerland 
Courses offered in ART BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
Meeting Wednesday April 1 6:30pm Room 340 Maldeeva *Free Pizza ** Past student and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 

Nicole Ricketts capped off the Belles finishes, taking fourth in the 400-meter, running in a time of 1:07.05. 
Szczchowski is very pleased with the success of his team this weekend. According to Szczechowski, not only did this team take several top finishes, but many also improved over their performances from last weekend at Wabash. 
Brennon improved her discus throw from last week by seven feet to 94 feet at Huntington, while Tina Gruben improved her performance in the triple jump by two feet, jumping 30-6. 
"That's the nice thing about track," said Szczchowski, "There's always improvement. Without it, what would you d0.
?" 

easily won all the doubles matches against Wisconsin. They've been right in every match." 
They will be put to the test again this week as the Irish head south to face Texas and TexasA&M. 
Baseball falls to Miami in 11th 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre ·Dame baseball team (11-7) faced the second­ranked University of Miami (24­
5) this weekend and won the opener of the three-game series. 
The Irish won on Friday night, but lost to the Hurricanes on Saturday and Sunday. 
In Sunday's game, Notre Dame scored two runs in the top of the ninth to send the game into extra innings, but Miami won the game 6-5 with a run in the eleventh inning, 
Chris Michalak was the starter for the Irish, pitching 5 2/3 innings and allowing five runs and seven hits. Dave Sinnes took the loss despite holding Miami to only three hits in 4 2/3 innings. Charles Johnson got the game winning RBI for the Hurricanes on a single off Sinnes in the eleventh. 
On Friday, the Irish won 2-1 to snap Miami's nine-game winning streak. AI Walania got the win after striking out eight and scattering seven hits over nine innings of work. Notre Dame scored both their runs in the second inning. 
Saturday's game paired Pat Leahy (3-2) and Kenny Henderson (7-1 ). Miami scored four runs in the first inning and managed to score at least one run in every inning against Notre Dame in the 18-6 win. 
Henderson pitched five shutout innings and allowed only one hit in five innings. 
Complete weekend results will be in Tuesday's Observer. 
When the Great 
American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219) 239-6385 
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
BRAND MANAGEMENT 
SUMMER INTERNSHIP INTERVIEWS 
All JUNIOR BUSINESS AND ARTS AND LETTERS MAJORS AND FIRST-YEAR MBA STUDENTS INTERESTED IN BEING CONSIDERED FOR THIS INTERNSHIP SHOULD SUBMIT TWO (2) RESUMES TO THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE BY: 
TUESDAY. MARCH 31--5:00 P.M. 
STUDENTS \Nill BE CALLED IF SELECTED TO INTERVIEW. 
INTERVIEWS WILL BE CONDUCTED ON TUESDAY. APRIL 7 IN C::AREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. 
Monday, March 20, 1992 The Observer 
Bookstore XXI opens play todclY Malloy leads Hall of Fame team to easy victory 
By MARK McGRATH Warren was a Bookstore All-take the tournament one game Sports Writer Star. at a time." Nowlin was this year's captain The Tutus are comprised of 
Bookstore Basketball tipped of the Notre Dame women's Loftus, Przybylek, Marshall off its 21st year with the Hall of basketball team. Vasquez is a Armintor, Dante Diamente and Fame game. The game featured Bookstore All-Star who will be Rick Chapman. Diamente and the Hall of Fame team playing for the Gauchos this Loftus each had two baskets for defeating the always entertain-year. Reidy is the Executive the Tutus. Armintor eontrolled ing Five Guys Who Aren't Commissioner-North this year. the glass for the Tutus, while Afraid to Wear Tutus While The game opened with the Chapman controlled the tempo Playing Basketball, 21-6. Hall of Fame team taking a 6-0 of the game. 
The Hall of Fame team was lead. Pete Loftus, a member of "We're in it (Bookstore) for comprised of University the Tutus, then hit a shot to the women," was said jokingly President 'Monk' Molloy, Kevin bring the game within five. The by one of the Tutus. Warren, Margaret Nowlin, Rob Hall of Fame team responded The first half featured some Vasquez and Jamie Reidy. with five straight points to end great teamwork for the Hall of 
Warren graduated from Notre the first half ahead 11-1. Fame team. The team had no Dame Law School last year and "We have some time to prac-problem using their skills to is presently Assistant Vice-tice before the tournament control the game. Vasquez fin­President of Student Affairs. starts," stated Tutu player Dave ished two breaks with 
his sch ek. "We are oin to dunks-one a reverse jam.
~iililllllliliiiiiiiiil_________.__...._ In the second half, the Tutus 
presented more of a challenge. "I thought we played a strong defensive game," commented NOTRE DAME 
Przybylek. "However, our of­fensive attack was not very
COMMUNICATION 
good."
AND THEATRE 
The Tutus were able to score ---------• five points in the seeond half. 
The highlight of the game for the crowd came when Przybylek hit a long-range shot for two points. 
Bookstore will start today with the preliminaries and will culminate on the final Sunday of AnTostal. If any captains have not picked up the sched­
THURSDAY, APRIL 9 8:10 PM 
ule, it is available in the SUB
fRIDAY, APRIL 10 8:10 PM 
office on the second floor of 
SATURDAY, APRILll 8:10 PM 
LaFortune. 
SUNDAY, APRIL12 3:10 PM 
• WASHINGTON HALL 
A LT 0 'I"D "I'E A T TABU N E
M A R T Y I UNABRIDG~J2_ OBOE 
SEN.INGE INVENT
RESERVED SEATS $7, 
TiCKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT 
E S S E.F R E E­
-A L G A C R 0 S Sl! N G
THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT 
L 0 C K E G H E N T .M 0 A
THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND 
A N T S W~S P 0 T 
ICE.SEAMS NOONE 
ViSA ORDERS CALL 239-8128 
DE D I CAT E W 0 0 Sllll 
STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZEN 
-D A T E L A T T I C E 
DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR 
G AR E ~/!-II E A C H • T E A 
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND 
ARIA EMBRiiLING 
SUNDAY PERFORMANCES. 
M 0 L L R 0 0 K N 0 0 S E E W E S S 0 N S G 0 N E R 

Pre-Law Society News 
3/31 ''What's Law School Like?" 7pm, Law School Basement An informal discussion and reception 
3/31 Officer Candidate Sheets due in 104 O'Shag 
4/1 Interviews of Candidates. Candidates will be contacted by phone about interview times. 
4/10 Trip to University of Michigan Law School (with the Preprofessional Society). For information, contact Michael Loftis (x3454), Beth Tluchowslki (Preprofessional Society, x4877), or Ms. Frances Shavers in the Alumni Association Office. If interested, please respond to one of the three by 
April2. . 

4/11,12 Moot Court Cases. If interested in being a juror for & 25,26 a case, call Brian Aleaxander at 277-9497. 
4/25 Mock LSAT. 8 am, Cushing Auditorium. Please sign up in 104 O'Shag by April17 


Hofstra 
continued from page 24 
The composure the Irish showed in the fourth quarter can be attributed to the advan­tage in experience Notre Dame held over Hofstra. While the Dutchmen rely on the output from sophomores Andy Carlson and Dom DiNardo, the Irish of­fense centers around upper­classmen Mike Sullivan and Brian Mayglothing. 
On defense the Irish are young, but posses a strong, vo­cal senior in Doug Murray. 
The win is significant for the Notre Dame program, as well as for the immediate future of the team, as they hunt for an NCAA bid. 
"We have waited a long time for a win like this," stated Colley. "We learned a lot from out Spring Break trip, and we are playing better now." 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chances of being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 

----------~----­
page 22 The Observer Monday, March 20, 1992 
Softball shows power burst at Southern Invitational 

By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Bombs away! 
Thanks to a big offensive ex­plosion. the N~tre Dame softball team (13-12) won three-of-six games in the Southern Invitational at Birmingham, Ala.. over the weekend. The team finished fifth among a field of ten outstanding teams. 
The Irish launched four homers. a triple, four doubles, and 36 total hits in the tour­nament. The squad went all last season without a homer, while this year they now have six. 
Two significant factors ac­counted for the high run totals throughout the tourney. First, they used a Dudley Thunder Lite, described by Irish coach Brian Boulac as a "hitter­friendly" ball. 
Second, the slow-pitch field featured outfield fences some 280 feet from home plate. "There were homers hit against us by slap-bunters," said Boulac. "They hit the seams and it would roll past the out­fielders." 
"After the first game, every­body realized the ball was flying and played (about 20 feet) deeper," Boulac explained. 
In the first game, Notre Dame defeated ninth-ranked South Carolina, 4-1. Center-fielder Ronny Alvarez and winning pitcher Carrie Miller each went two-for-three with two RBI singles. 
"We played very well in the 

The Observer/Jake Peters Melissa Linn (shown here vs. Bowling Green) pitched well against 22nd­ranked North Carolina, but the Tar Heels still prevailed, 3-1. 
first game," said Boulac about Alvarez connected on three-of­the big upset. "We played great four from the plate, while junior defensively and Carrie Miller Lisa Miller knocked in two. pitched a great game." Staci Alvarez (5-1) picked up 
Next, the Irish faced North the win. Carolina, ranked 22nd in the country. The Tar Heels pinned a Saturday, the Irish let up, and 3-1 loss on Notre Dame senior it cost them, as Winthrop Melissa Linn, whose record fell College beat Linn 7-3. "We to 5-6. Second baseman Christy played flat, without the intensity Connoyer went two-for-three we had the first day," explained and scored the only run. Boulac. "We kind of looked past 
The Irish rebounded in the Winthrop. It was a discouraging third contest, pounding num­loss." Freshman Sara Hayes hit ber-four seed Georgia Tech, 6-:.>. her second homer of the year in 
ND/SMC lacrosse club defeats IU, U. of Chicago 
By EMILY HAGE Sports Writer 
Talent and enthusiasm proved to be a winning comqination for the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Lacrosse Club this weekend at the University of Michigan. 
The club went 2-1 over the weekend, defeating Indiana University, 10-6, and the University of Chicago, 9-8, and losing to the University of Michigan. 
The club's leading scorers in­rluded Notre Dame junior Suzanne Vieira, Notre Dame freshman Molly Donius, and Notre Dame seniors Claudia and Ursula Tetrozzi. 
The team has important matches coming up in the next two weeks. It faces the University of Chicago in Chicago next weekend, and the following weekend, it will travel to a tournament at Purdue University, where it will play against Michigan, Purdue, Ohio State, and the University of Chicago. 
Founded bv Kathy Benz and 
THE ONLY EASIER WAYTOGETA JOB IS TO WORK FOR YOUR DAD.
r·-----------i
: $5.00 Off 
I 
1 Complete Resume Package : 
I Present this COLpOnllt participating Kirl<o's lind receive II $5.00 off !toe pt.rCI1!ISe of a Complete Rest.rne ~· I ~'1(1'( from looXion to location. Offer not good
_____________..
I in combinatioo with dher diSCOU'is 1 
I 
C11lW,I<iidsGooh:"-> 
Make agreat impression on your future boss (vvhoever it is) with a complete resume package from Kinko's. Just give us the information and ......-e'll give you a full set of professionally designed, laser typeset resumes complete with matching erl'v'elopes and cover letter sheets--plus you ca~ choose from awide variety of papers, styles, typefaces and formats. 
kinko·s· 
the copy center 
Open 24 Hours 18187 State Rd. 23 • 271-0398 

Jen Koch four years ago, the club is made up of a combina­tion of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women, the majority of whom are freshmen. It is coached by Notre Dame junior Greg Knapp and senior Tom Duane. 
Practicing five times a week at Saint Mary's, the team looks forward to improving as a team, and it hopes to host a tournament next 
the losing cause. 

In the pool, the Irish drew a rematch against Winthrop and got their revenge. Notre Dame put together a true team effort, scattering six hits among six batters in their lineup. Heserves Sherri Quinn and Andrea Keys chipped in with a triple and a pinch-hit double, respectively. 
The final game featured two fireworks. First baseman Stephanie Pinter homered with the bases empty. Then, Connoyer crushed a round­tripper, which was nullified when the umpire ruled she missed first base. 
Southwest Louisiana, the sev­enth-ranked team in the coun­try and the tournament's num­ber one seed, plated four-in­cluding a homer in the sev­enth-to put the Irish and pitcher Carrie Miller away. 
Nonetheless, the Irish have. to be satisfied with the way they stuck with true powerhouse softball squads. 
"We proved we can play with anybody on our schedule," noted Boulac. "With this in mind, we need to play comfort­able and confident the rest of the way." 
Yamaguchi 
defends her 
world title 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-While Olympic champion Kristi Yamaguchi on Sunday became the first American woman to win consecutive world champi­onships since Peggy Heming in 1968, the United States failed to repeat its unprecedented medals sweep of a year ago. 
Nancy Kerrigan, the Olympic bronze medalist, did add a sil­ver medal to the bronze she won in last year's worlds. But Tonya Harding-Gillooly, the world runner-up in 1991, plummeted to sixth with a me­diocre free skate punctuated by a fall on a triple axel. 
China's Lu Chen, a 15-year­old in her second year o senior competition, got the bronze, followed by Laetitia Hubert of France and Josee Chouinard of Canada. 
For Yamaguchi, these world championships ended a perfect one-year run. She had never won a major singles event before taking the '91 worlds. Then she won the U.S. championship in January. 
Happy 29th Birthday to Jerry Genova 
Remember those youthful days??? 

Love, Caboose 
SUNDRY, RPRIL 26 7:30 PM MORRIS CIUIC AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS RESERUED: S19.50 RURILRBLE RT THE AUDITORIUM BOH OFFICE, TRRCICS,ORB IT RECORDS, AND WORLD RECORDS CHRR&E: 284-9140 
Today 

Monday, March 30,. 1992 page 24 

THE. LAST GOD IN LIN£. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'it'S! ~fl..\ 
A~\JRMl<J:: 00 
I 1-\fl..'fi: \t\fl..l 
THIS £0\lCr..noN IS ~~l£l'i PR£.~1<11'\G ME FOR n-It: 21 sr 
Ct.t-i\\JR~ ;:> 

0 0 0 0 0 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
"Well, here we are, my IIHie chickadee." 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
rD ~EAR \\.IE '+l\~0 \MW\l{G 
TI-lt. RAI~ AG,!>.\1'\'51 ll-\£ 
W\N'iloW l>~t--1~ 1\t--10 l'O PVlL 
WE BLM..\I<HS VP, G£1 A\.l TOAST'( M-ID CCZ'i, A~\) 
~ALL BACK f6LEEP. 
MENU 
I~ 1\-\"-1 ost, '{CI.li-IG MA~. 
I S\JGGE":>T '10\l STP..R\ 'NO~'!(\\IlG 1-\AROE.R. W~A"I" '(QIJ GEl OIJ"!" r::fr SC~OO... OEP8\I)S 0~ ~\\(>...\ '{OJ 1\JT 11-l\0 \\. 

45 Calendar term 11 Slangy TV
ACROSS 

46 Molecular structure 12 Ever's partner 1 Singers of a 49 Knight of King 13 Sugar source certain range Arthur 18 Quechuan Indian 
6 Sports officials 52 Apiece 23 Woodstock's home, 10 Gore 53 -party in "Peanuts" 14 "Best Picture" of 54 Opera highlight 25 Fraternal organ­
1955 55 Involving strife ization 15 Inkling 58 -Flanders 26 Guitar parts16 Melody 59 Castle 28 Ring
SPIN JOHN MONKS 


17 Like some diction­60 Hanging item 29 Unjust burden 
aries 61 Sheep 30 "High -" 19 Hautboy 62 -of Liberty 31 Paid admission 20 Washington VIP 63 One beyond help 32 Like eggs 
(abbr.) 33 As soon as 21 "Picnic" playwright 34 Fireplace item
DOWN

22 Emulate Edison 37 Endures 24 Gist 1 Entertain 38 Chimney substance 26 Part of f.o.b. 2 Establishment for 40 Shoo 27 Seaweed Dick Weber 41 Love, in tennis 28 Intersection 3 Did business 43 Perfect models ,• 32 English philosopher 4 Type of gambling 44 City in Texas 34 Belgian treaty city (abbr.) 46 Birds or adventures 35 Extinct bird 5 Device to inject 47 Provide perfume36 Picnic pests fluids 48 Anxious 37 Injunctions 6 Part of a hill 49 That which is 38 Name for a dog ·7 Advantage hunted 39 Break the ----8-simple 50 In a line 40 Lines of stitching 9 Heavy pressing 51 Irritate 41 ----'s perfect devices 52 Black (poet.)42 Open formally 10 Items for James 56 Pasture sound 
.44 Courts Beard 57 Card game 
CAMPUS Monday 
8 p.m. African Film Festival. "Mr. Johnson." Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by African-American Studies Programs 
LECTURES 
Monday 
4 p.m. Seminar, "Modeling the Early Diagenesis of Or­ganic Matter in Marine Sediments," Dr. Philippe Van Cap­
BILL WATTERSON 

pellen, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA. Room 205, Cushing Hall of Engineering. Sponsored by 
ltlS"I"EAD, I'M 'ft:A\.1, I 1-\01'£ \"\IE S\\~ 

Department of Civil Engineering.
OVI 1\ER~, ARt. S\\LL v-IARII'\ 't{l\rn I: COLO r.NO WH, G8 ~C\:. IN. 

7:30 p.m. Discussion, "How to Recognize and Respond to 
'Nt>..IT\~G-~ 

Sexual Harassment," Wendy Settle, Counseling Center and
1\-\t. SCI-\00... B\lS 
.....

Barbara Flick, professor, Notre Dame Law School.
1\:l ThKE ME. 10 

Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. Spon­
mE GULAG. 

sored by CARE, SOS, Notre Dame Counseling Center and the Graduate Student's Women's Resource Committee. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Tenured Radicals and the Decline of the University," David Horowitz. Theodore's. Sponsored by Dialogue at Notre Dame. 
Tuesday 
12:10 p.m. Noon talk, "The Mappa Mundi: Maps and the 
_ Colombian Encounter: 13th-17th Centuries," Diana Matthias, assistant professional specialist. Snite Museum of Art. O'Shaugnessy East Galleries, Snite Museum of Art. Sponsored by the Snite Museum of Art. 
12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "The Right-Wing Opposition in Russian Politics," Igor N. Grazin, faculty fellow. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies.
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 

Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Roast Pork Loin French-dipped 
!
w/Apples Sandwiches 
I 
Hot Dogs Baked Pork Chops 
j
Rotini w/Marinara w/Mushroom Gravy Sauce Pasta Bar 
I 
~ 
__j 

Sports 
,.. 
page 24 

ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 


_Irish used to being in spotlight 
NEW YORK-If they can make it 
there. they can make it anywhere. 
Notre Dame will try to take New York 
by storm tonight, as the Irish face Utah 
in Madison Square Garden. 
College basketball fans, their eyes 
distracted from Minneapolis until the 
weekend. will affix their eyes to ESPN 
tonight and Wednesday, hoping to sat­
isfy their hoops appetites. 
But Notre Dame, unlike the other teams left in the NIT, is used to the spotlight. Led by four confident seniors, the Irish have played big games on na­tional television all year, growing into one of the most media-seasoned teams in college basketball. 
But New York is different. The city puts everything under the public micro­scope, giving everyday events new stature. and making the NIT seem like the big show. 
Notre Dame faced the New York phe­nomenon earlier this season, when the Irish defeah~d a hnavily-favored North Carolina squad 88-76 in the Garden. 
And thn Irish team playing now is the sam1~ one which knocked off Carolina, UCLA and Syracuse. Thn Irish are a team possessed, who will not stop until they arn crownnd NIT champions. 
But Notre Dame is not the only team who is on a mission in New York. Utah, the Irish opponent tonight, is ready to cap a comeback from a disappointing season. 
A year ago, the Utes were playing in the NCAA Sweet 16 after earning a fourth seed in the West Regional with a 28-3 regular-season record. Utah was picked to win the WAC again this year, but the team's preseason expectations have fallen short. 
Though the Utes' desire to regain their old glory will bring them a long way, the team has not faced the pres­sures of a schedule like Notre Dame's. The grueling Irish regular season could pay dividends tonight in New York. 
Like Notre Dame, Virginia faced a tough regular season schedule in the basketball-nuts ACC. The Cavaliers bombarded the Irish in January on the way to a 83-56 victory. 
Though the Cavs succumbed to ACC pressures during the conference regular season, the team's experience against teams like North Carolina, Duke and Florida State will bring them an advantage against Florida, their opponent tonight. 
The Gators' fans are loyal to football first. Thus the team quietly earned a significant improvement over last year's 11-17 record. But the team's inexperi­ence under media and fan pressure will show up in tonight's early game. 
Though Notre Dame had a tough time early this year with the Cavs, the Irish have matured since then, and are now ready to match up. Watch for a com­posed Irish team to face and destroy Virginia in Wednesday's final. 

Monday, March 30, 1992 
Lacrosse rallies in final period to down Hofstra 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team achieved its first-ever win over a ranked opponent, topping 19th­ranked Hofstra 12-9 on Saturday. 
Hofstra came into the matchup with a long history of success against the Irish, but a strong offensive outburst in the fourth quarter ended the futility of the past. 
Entering the fourth quarter, the Irish found themselves trailing by one at 9-8. In the previous three quarters, Notre Dame had numerous opportunities to score, but had not taken advantage of
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
those situations. 

Senior Mike Sullivan tallied a second-quarter goal in Notre 
That trend changed in the final
Dame's 12-9 victory over Hofstra on Saturday. 

period, starting with Ed Lamb's tying goal and continuing with goals by Randy Colley, Tom O'Brien and Willie Sutton. 
"We had been getting great opportunities to score all game. and in the fourth quarter we finally were able to," said Colley. 
Coupling with the offensive success was a stellar showing at the defensive end. After a solid performance in the first three periods, the Irish raised the level of intensity a notch, shutting down the Flying Dutchmen attack entirely in the fourth period. 
"Our defense played great," commented Colley. "We couldn't 
ask for  a  better effort from  
them."  
see HOFSTRA/ page 21  

Men's hoops takes on Utah in NIT semis Utes defense, board work worry Macleod 
Observer Staff Report 

The Notre Dame basketball team (17-14) will take on 
the University of Utah (23-1 0) in the semifinals of the 
NIT tonight. 

Notre Dame is coming off a crushing victory over the Manhattan Jaspers, 74-58, while Utah beat Rhode Island 84-72 to qualify for the trip to Madison Square Garden. 
Notre Dame is 4-0 against Utah, with the last contest coming in the 1986-87 season. In the 1978 NCAA tournament, the Irish beat Utah to make their only trip to the Final Four. 
The Utes, which won the NIT in 1947 and finished ,;econd in 1974, lost five of its last eight games this season. But they have been on a roll in the NIT, beating Ball State by 15, Arizona State by 12 and Rhode Island by 12. 
Utah coach Rick Majerus is hoping that his leading scorer, Byron Wilson, a junior from Gary continues in his high-scoring ways. Wilson is averaging 12.1 points per game and shoots 41 percent from three-point range while grabbing 4.7 rebounds per game. 
Other Utah players that the Irish will have to look out include senior center Paul Afeaki (11.5 ppg, 6.2 rpg). Afeaki is a transfer from Snow Junior College who was born in Tonga. 
Jimmy Soto, a junior guard from Salt Lake City is also a major contributor for the Utes scoring 11.3 points a game. Tyrone Tate is the assist man for Utah with 101 in 31 games. 
"Being here is a great honor for us," Majerus said. "Our kids are a little awestruck with New York. One of them is from Oakley, Utah. The biggest thing he's ever been to is the Oakley rodeo." 
Utah is shooting well this year with 37 percent shooting from behind the three-point line and a 46 percent field­goal shooting percentage. The Utes like to take advantage of gifts as well, shooting 79 percent from the free throw line. 
Utah averages only 68.7 points per game, but its smothering defense gives up only 61.2. Opponents shoot only 40 percent against Utah and the Utes outrebound "their foes by seven per game. 
"They're a tough, hard-nosed defensive team," Irish 
see UTES I page 18 
Women's tennis takes two of three weekend matches 

INSIDE SPORTS 
•softball 
finishes fifth at 

Southern Invitational page 22 

•sMC 
tennis routs Hope 

College page 20 

•cincinnati, 
Michigan round 


out Final Four page 19 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team continued their roller coaster ride this week­end, defeating Kansas and Boston College, while losing to Wisconsin. 
Kansas came into Friday afternoon's match ranked 17th nationally, but the Irish were not intimidated. Although doubles play has been a problem this year, Notre Dame swept all three doubles matches against the Jayhawks to come away with a 5-4 win. 
Freshman Laura Schwab keyed the Irish victory with a 


Laura Schwab 
erueial three-set win over 24th-ranked Rebecca Jensen at number-two singles. 
"Schwab beating Jensen was a big key for us," Irish coach Jay Louderback explained. "Jensen was mentally down in her doubles match after that loss and our doubles team needed to take advantage of it and they did." 
Jensen teams up with Eveline Hammers to form the nation's 12th-ranked doubles team, but the sophomore tandem of Christy Faustmann and Lisa Tholen dropped them in. straight sets, 7-5, 6­2. 
After the Kansas win, the Irish looked forward to re­gional foe Wisconsin. A win over the Badgers would likely have lifted the Irish to the re­gion's number-two ranking, but Wisconsin pulled away in doubles action, winning 6-3. 
Saturday's match looked 
like a repeat of Friday's after the singles competition. Tied 3-3, doubles play would again be the deciding factor. This time, however, the Badgers swept the Irish doubles teams, dropping Notre Dame's record to 6-8. 
"Wisconsin's depth hurt us," Louderback commented. "We should have been in a better position after singles but we lost a couple we shouldn't have and that helped their confidence." 
Sunday's Boston College match didn't have the drama of the others. Despite dropping the number-one and two singles matches, the 
see TENNIS/ page 20 




