The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 37 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Egypt earthquake kills 370; injures thousands 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -One of the strongest earthquakes to hit Egypt in modern times toppled buildings Monday and caused deadly stampedes of panicked residents. The government said 370 people were killed and more than 3,300 injured. 
A mother, holding her dead son and shouting for help, was pulled from the rubble of a building more than seven hours after the mid-afternoon earthquake that registered 5.9 on the Richter scale. 
Many victims were trampled Associated Press reporter Nejla Sammakia said 75
to death, including more than apartments collapsed into a
100 schoolchildren in the Cairo heap of crushed concrete and
area, said Maj. Gen. Rid a Ab­del-Aziz, an assistant interior 
twisted steel. minister. They were killed as An ambulance worker said they rushed from swaying about 15 people were pulled out alive before nightfall,
schools. Rescuers struggled into the including mother Samia Ragab 
night to dig survivors from de­Khalil. Her condition was unknown.
bris. Authorities declared a state of She was removed, dazed, on a stretcher, after she was found
emergency in this city of 14 million people. holding the body of her son and 
The quake was centered about shouting for help. 20 miles southwest of Cairo, a At Heliopolis hospital a block from the ruined building, Ilham 
few miles from the pyramids el-Sayed and 2-year-old Ihab,
and the Sphinx on the Giza Plateau. But Information her son, lay in separate wards, 
Minister Safwat el-Sherif said in good condition but too major monuments survived shocked to talk. intact from the 20-second Their lives was apparently 
temblor. 
saved because their room on The quake was preceded by a the building's 13th floor was roar. cushioned by the rubble 
"At first I thought it was a beneath them. bomb in the bank," said Samy The dead in the southern Mohammed Ali, a lawyer. "Then suburb Maadi, where many I saw people running, and I Americans and other Western­realized it was an earthquake." ers live, included six Egyptian 
People thronged Cairo's schoolchildren. streets after the quake. Many Maadi resident Fahima Taha seemed dazed. Aly Suleiman told the AP of 
One woman stood on a seeing a girl about 14, wearing sidewalk screaming. A knot of a school uniform, fall dead after people sat in a downtown a collapsing wall hit her. square, tears streaking down A wall collapse in a downtown their cheeks. Cairo kebab shop killed a 
Thousands crowded around worker. Five boys died in a the ruins of a 14-story apart­stampede from a collapsing ment building in the northern school in Shubra, a poorer 
suburb of Heliopolis late Mon­Cairo district. day while four bulldozers Abdel-Aziz said most cleared debris under flood­
schoolchildren were casualties lights. of panic. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Ralph Mcinerny and Todd Whitmore (left to right) discuss the whether or not a Catholic should vote for an openly pro-choice candidate in an Ethical Issues forum held in Keenan Hall last night. 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

In the spotlight 

Students line up in Stepan Center Saturday in hopes of being cast as extras in the movie "Rudy" which will be filmed on the Notre Dame campus this fall. 

Telecommunications updates Senate on progression of new phone system 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Mike Collins, a representative of University Telecommunica­tions, updated Student Senate last night on the progression of the new telecommunications system to be installed through­out Notre Dame. 
Collins informed the group that when students return from Christmas break, the new sys­tem will be intact. The biggest change will be cross campus dialing, according to Collins. 
"Notre Dame students, and all non-residential numbers will all be on the same system," explained Collins. "All parties will be on a five-digit plan." 
The prefixes will change from 239 and 283 to ND1(631) and ND4(634) in late December. Student to student calling will require a 4 before the normal four-digit extension. In student to non-residential calling, the four-digit extension must pre­cede with 1, according to Collins. 

"This plan makes the phone system larger and we'll even­tually be able to add other fea­tures," said Collins. These new amenities will include voice mail, call waiting, and confer­ence calling. 
"Every student will still have the base phone system," said Student Body President Greg Butrus. "The extra features are choices people have to add onto their own phone." 
There will be intercepts with the new phone numbers in­forming callers that the previ­ous number is not in service and referring them to the new , number. The telecommunica­tions committee is also working hard to keep the same last four­digits of student's numbers after the change, said Collins. 
In other business, Molly O'Neill, student body vice pres­ident, introduced a Senate reso­lution which recognized An­thony Earley, chair of student affairs for the past 10 years. 
"We would like to give recog­nition and deep appreciation to Tony Earley for his outstanding achievement and service to un­dergraduates at Notre Dame," said O'Neill. 

Professors debate abortion in political forum 
By ALEX MONTOYA News Writer 
Voting for a candidate that is a staunch pro-choice supporter is morally wrong based on Catholic social teaching , ac­cording to Ralph Mcinerny, chair and professor of philoso­phy, who spoke at a Keenan Hall political forum last night. 
Comparing the issue of abor­tion to slavery, Mcinerny said, "Just like slavery was the only issue that mattered to abolition­ists, abortion is the single-most important issue of our time." 
Theology Professor Todd Whitmore disagreed, saying, "We need to talk about quality of life if we're going to discuss the right to life. Two-thirds of women who have had abortions say they gave up their babies because they don't have enough money to care for them. " 
"To take the slavery analogy further, "said Whitmore, "abolitionists realized that you can't set blacks free and just leave them there. The Church needs to take the lead on find­ing social issues to see why abortions take place." 

Mcinerny said he disagreed with Whitmore's statement that fewer abortions would take place if women were ade­quately prepared to support a child. "It is not sufficient," he said, "to say lack of money gives the mother a right to de­stroy her child." 
Because both Democrat Bill Clinton and independent Ross Perot are avowed pro-choice candidates, Mcinerny said he cannot support them and will support President Bush despite his view that Bush "may have been disappointing in other ar­eas." 
Whitmore did not agree with that method of selecting the nation's president saying, "There are a range of issues and it's impossible to find a perfect candidate. It'd be futile to fmd a white knight." 
"Let men try as they may, "continued Whitmore, " we can't entirely banish every so­cial ill . That's just a recogni­tion of today's political order. Prioritize your issues so some will cut to the core of morality and become top priority." 
Whitmore also disagreed that Bush is the best candidate , noting, "The Republican plat­form takes a clear stance on abortion. Bush really doesn't because he changes so much." 
When the importance of abortion in the '92 campaign arose once more, Mcinerny again drew a parallel to slavery that was not well-received by either Whitmore or the audi­ence. "I would hope I'd never have to choose," he said,"but I'd rather be free and hungry 
see FORUM I page 4 


• 
In 1775: The United States Navy was born as the Continental Congress ordered construction of a fleet. 

• 
In 1792: The cornerstone of the executive mansion, later 


to be known as the White House, was laid during a ceremony in the District of Columbia. 
• 
In 1943: Italy declared war on Germany, its one-time Axis partner. 

• 
In 1982: The International Olympic Committee announced it would restore the two gold medals taken from Jim Thorpe after he admitted having been paid to play baseball. 

• 
In 1987: Costa Rican President Oscar Arias was named winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. 


page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Major isn't the 
joke it's made 
out to be 
How's that one awful 
T-shirt go? "Things that 
don't make sense at 
Notre Dame?" Number 9, 
Receiving credit for 
American Studies 
classes. 
American Studies has 

KENYA
been the butt of many 
'okes. I remember once JOHNSON 
when I was partying with Assistant Accent 
a group of friends-at Editor 
that time I was doubling -------­
in American Studies and photography-1 had a 
photo project due the next day and one of my 
concerned peers kindly asked how my project 
was going. Another pal asked if I was majoring 
in photography. I told him yes, at least for that 
week. 
His response: "What, is American Studies 
filled?" 
Yeah, he felt pretty dumb, when he found out 
I was AMST too, but it was all in fun. I laughed 
and was not really offended. But I often wonder 
why it is that American Studies is seen as such a 
'oke by students. 
When I first arrived at Notre Dame, I was 
Science Pre-Professional. (That, of course, had 
nothing to do with the influence of Dr. Mom.) 
About a three months later, I was Arts and 
Letters Pre-Professional. With the wrath o 
Xavier Creary and Dr. Howard, and .the 
possibility of encountering J.P., the Pre­
Professional part was dropped altogether. 
After playing around with be an "Archy" for a 

week, and a photographer the next, I finally 
decided to pick a major that I would actually 

stick with; the winner, American Studies. 
Truthfully when I first heard of it, I had no 

idea what American Studies was (and my par­
ents sure wanted to know). But as I explored the 
possibilities of writing and journalism, I found 

American Studies to be the best and only way to 
go. 
Aspiring journalist are taken under the wings 

of Powers, Collins, and Schmuhl with such 
classes as Reporting the News, Politics, Policy 
and the Media and Writing for Publication. We 
gain the journalism experience and knowledge 
we need to successfully move forth in the 
profession. 
If we chose not to be a journalist, we have the privilege of raising our consciousness with the help of courses such as Confronting Homelessness in America, America in Black and White and Creating Ethnicity cover controversial issues in American society. 
I do not think many understand the com­plexity of being an American Studies major. Not only must we take six AMST classes, but we must also chose to concentrate in two of the three following areas: history, government or literature. 
The classes are indeed credible. We labor over 

perfecting our articles, and absorb a massive 
amount of reading about the American people. 
Eventually we will be the people working on your newspapers, magazines, television shows. We will be the ones leading others in the classrooms and the courtrooms. 
I am an American Studies major and I have no qualms in telling people so. I know where I am going with my life and American Studies is my way of getting there. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 
Today's Staff: 
News  Systems  
Alicia Reale  Harry Zembillas  
Jennifer Habrych  
Viewpoint  






TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 
Morris Inn Barking lot to be closed 
•NOTRE DA E-The guest parking lot at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's Morris Inn will be closed beginning today to undergo a reconfiguaration that will provide 20 percent more parking. The lot is expected to re-open Friday. During the project, parking for guests of the hotel and restaurant will be available to visitors at conference lot at the end of University Club Drive and in the lot adjacent to the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. A shuttle van will be provided to transport guests to and from the parking area and the Morris Inn from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily. 

NATIONAL 
Aids activists protest at White House 
•WASHINGTON-AIDS activists carrying simulated American flags with skulls and crossbones in place of stars ringed the White House on Monday to protest what they charge is President Bush's weak response to the fa­tal disease. The thousands of demonstrators, who formed a human chain with the aid of 6,000 feet of red ribbon, chanted, "Three more weeks, Bush will go." But some questioned whether his Democratic challenger, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, would do any better in fighting AIDS. Ed Rosier of Nashua, N.H., said he did not watch Sunday night's debate in which Bush, Clinton and independent candidate Ross Perot traded views on the AIDS epidemic. "It's of no concern to me. They all lie," Des Rosier said. He said he was in the demonstration because he had friends who have died of AIDS and, "I have to let the president know we are not happy." 


OF INTEREST 
•Auditions 
for the Lewis Hall Production of "Eastern Standard" will be today and Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. 

•ND 
Co-Dependents Anonymous (CODA), a fel­lowship of men and women whose common goal is to de­velop and maintain healthy relationships despite the be­havior learned in dysfunctional families, will hold a 12­step recovery program. Meetings will be held in the 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy with 
an 80 percent 
chance of afternoon 
showers. High in 
the lower 60s. 
Lows in the upper 
40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L 
Anchorage 45 38 
Atlanta 68 50 
Bogota 64 41 
Boston 53 39 
Cairo 95 72 
Chicago 63 36 
Cleveland 58 35 
Dallas 88 60 
Detroit 62 39 
Indianapolis 66 41 
Jerusalem 88 68 
London 57 52 
Los Angeles 85 62 
Madrid 79 52 
Minneapolis 73 54 
Moscow 46 39 
Nashville 71 44 
New York 58 40 
Paris 54 50 
Philadelphia 60 42 

Seattle 60 46 
South Bend 70 36 
Tokyo 66 50 
Washington, D.C. 63 43 

•GOLDST NE, Calif.-The biggest search for aliens in space began Monday as NASA celebrated Columbus Day by turning on giant radio telescope "ears" in California and Puerto Rico. "Like a fisherman, we have cast our net into the cosmic ocean," NASA scientist Sam Gulkis said. "I cannot help feeling the net will not be empty once we have finished." Hundreds of NASA em­ployees and guests sweltered under a hot desert sun as the big dish-shaped antenna slowly swiveled skyward and, at noon, started listening for radio signals from any alien civilizations in the constellation Ophiuchus. At the same time, an even larger antenna in Puerto Rico zeroed in on a star named GL615.1A, located in the same region about 410 trillion miles from Earth. The space agency's 10-year project, budgeted at $100 million but facing cuts, seeks to answer a profound question: Are humans alone in the universe? 

WORLD 
Somalis lack access to clean water 
•MOGADISHU, Somalia-Thousands of Somalis al­ready weakened by hunger are drinking contaminated water from rivers and ponds because wells have been extensively damaged, experts said Monday. The engi­neers participated in a recent two-week survey of water sources in famine-stricken areas in Somalia, the first survey of its kind since drought and warfare began killing thousands of people in this Horn of African nation. More than 100,000 people already have died in the famine, and diarrhea caused by polluted water has caused or hastened many deaths. "This whole place from a water point of view is a disaster," said Paul Sherlock, a water engineer for the British relief agency Oxfam. 
Sorin Hall Chapel, Tuesdays at 5:50 p.m. and Wednes­days at 7:30p.m. 
•CANDAX McNair Informational Meeting will be held at 7 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium The meeting is Sponsored by OSIPA, Mario Borelli, director, and Office of Minority Affairs, Iris Outlaw, director. 
• -
Production  Guy Loranger  
Cheryl Moser  
Rolando de Aguiar  Accent  
Mara Divis  
Sports  Sarah Doran  
Rolando de Aguiar  
Mike Scrudato  Graphics  
Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY•s TRADING October 12 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 126,596,400 +2.17 to 224.28 

S&P COMPOSITE +4.78 to 407.44 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +37.83 to 3,174.41 
GOLD -$5.20 to $345.20 oz 
SILVER -$0.026 to $3.752 oz 

--------~---------------~---­
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Wandycz: East Europe troubles not as serious as they seem 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
Most people consider East Central Europe to be a trouble­some, difficult-to-understand, unsettled area...as if East Cen­tral Europe has a monopoly on problems-when this is obvi­ously not the case, according to Piotr Wandycz, a professor of history at Yale University. 
"I'm going to approach (this) from a specific angle: the sit­uation in East Central Europe in 1918 as compared to its sit­uation in 1989-the two times the region has been free," he said in a lecture yesterday titled, "East Central Europe in International Politics," 
Wandycz focused on the po­litical and economic situations in Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary, attempting to explore why one German analyst was correct in 1919 when he said, "These states will last only a season," and questioning whether or not that would be true today. 
Unfair boundaries, too many natural minorities, and coun­tries emerging for the first time were the reasons that Wandycz cited for the eventual demise of those three states in the "Wilsonian Era." 
Wandycz stated that the three states have a chance of surviving their present situa­tion because, "they are moving into a politically and strategi­cally better situation." 
Wandycz said he does worry about their present economic situation, however, claiming that in 1918, Eastern Europe was worse economically than Western Europe, but presently, "Market-less Eastern Europe is struggling to catch up with cap­italistic Western Europe." 
"The present-day situation has less ethnic problems than in 1918, with the exception of Yugoslavia," Wandycz said, "but the Bosnians had not ex­perienced ethnic problems in 1,000 years-who could have predicted that they would have some now?" 
Although Wandycz holds that Western Europe and the U S have not handled the present­day Bosnian situation very well, he stated some will still say that he is, "painting too rosy a picture." To them he states, "The journalists covering the Bosnian situation have probably never opened a his­tory book." 


Zoilkowski: Quality of graduate education bein threatened 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
News Writer 


STORM 
OVER THE
While we have a marvelous system of graduate education, UNIVERSI the quality is being threatened, said Theodore Zoilkowski pro­'-...;.;...;;:__:____..J fessor at Princeton University in go pair in the lab a lecture yesterday titled, and students tend to prolong "Challenges of Graduate Edu­their stay in graduate school cation." believing that graduate school 
"Graduate schools are the is a status and not a stage, jewel in the crown of the according to Zoilowski. American education system," This prolonged time working claimed Zoilkowski yet they towards a degree comes at a 
have their problems. cost to society and the educa­
The problems include the in­tion system. "One student's creased length of stay of the time to degree can cost another graduate student, the conflict one acceptance into graduate between graduate and under­school," he said. graduate education and, finally, The challenge to graduate the pressures from political education comes from advo­correctness. cates of undergraduate educa­
Zoilkowski said he blames tion, according to Zoilowski. both the students and profes­Advocates of increased em­sors for the increased length of phasis on undergraduate edu­stay for students in the gradu­cation use graduate students' ate education system. Teachers absorbant stays in school as 
Their argument has won sup­
port from the federal govern­
ment which has cut spending 
toward graduate education, he 
said. 
Zoilowski questioned, "If the 
purpose of a University is to 
have scientific and philosophic 
research, what's the point of 
having students?" 
"Undergraduate education clearly deserves our attention but not at the stake of our graduate schools. Our graduate schools are not harming our undergraduate education system. There should be no necessary conflict between teaching and research." 
The final challenge facing undergraduate education is pressure put on graduate schools by the left wing move­ment toward political correct­ness. "No student should feel inclined to affect his research 

are known to impede student ammunition for their attack on due to political correctness, • progress in order to hold onto a the graduate education system. said Zoilkowski. 
University's academic mission discussed 
t  (W~@~~ /§) ~@> DO YOU WANT TO KNOW MORE7b ABOUT THE @ UU11 " URBAN PLUNGE? INFORMATION MEETING: 6:30 PM OCTOBER 13TH CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  






Do You Have Swimmer's Hair? 
Has Your Hair Lost its Shine Due To Hairspray Build,Up? 
Stop in for a 
Malibu 2000 Treatment And wash all the Build.,up Away Only $7°0 
'University Jlair Stylists LaFortune Student Center 239,5144 Mon...fri 9 a.m .... 9 p.m. Sat 9 a.m .... 4 p.m. We Will Be Open During Fall Break 
By GERALDINE 
HAMILTON 
News Writer 
The second session of a sym­posium yesterday titled "Storm Over the University" discussed the university's academic mis­sion in the Liberal Arts. 
Francis Oakley spoke about the merits of research univer­sities in a speech titled "Teaching and Research: The Matter of Perspective," during the first half of the session. Oakley, president and professor of history at Williams College, related three objections to research universities and then proceeded to refute each of these. 
The first objection was that the academic research en­deavor is fruitless. Oakley's re­sponse to this was that although there are many pub­lications by members of the faculty that simply disappear, there may come a point in the future when these publications may be the seeds of creativity. 
The second objection was that there is a marked deterioration in University standards from those of the past, said Oakley. Oakley refuted this objection by stating that there have been 


STORM 
OVER THE 

UNIVERSI 
PART2 
many changes in the university structure from those of the past. 
"The critics are hard pressed to document any systemic de­terioration," said Oakley. "The summary of teaching today is that it has not slipped in quality, but there is ample room for. improvement." 
The third objection was that the academy over-emphasizes research and undervalues teaching. 
As a response to this objec­tion Oakley presented the re­sults of a study done by the Carnegie Institute in 1969 which stated 50 percent of fac­ulty at leading universities put teaching as their first priority and that those faculty members which are more active in re­search are more likely to be in­volved with the student body. 
John Searle, the second speaker at the session, dis­cussed the debate over the cur­riculum in the humanities which contains underlying as­
sumptions by the two opposing 
sides, the traditionalists and the 
challengers. 
The traditionalists believe 
that the university is an intel­
lectual aristocracy, not a 
democracy. Their assumptions 
are that the criteria for inclu­
sion for the list of classic read­
ings is that they have to have 
merit and historical influence, 
said Searle, a Mills philosophy 
professor of at the University of 
California at Berkley. 
Another assumptions is: 
"getting students to rise above 
the mediocrity and stupidity of 
whatever background they have 
come from and transcend the 
accidents of their existence," 
said Searle. Also the primary 
function of the curriculum is 
critical and realism is the 
dominant view, said Searle. 
Searle's personal criticisms of the traditionalists assumptions is that "they have run out of gas. There is only lip service to the great books, but many would rather not teach them." 
Core assumptions of the chal­lengers, those people that are not sympathetic with the tradi­tional structure of the univer­sity such as ethnic groups, are that universities should be largely definitive of education. Representativeness is a crucial criteria in education and tradi­tionalists should stop thinking that there is objective reality out there, said Searle. 
Criticisms of the challengers were that they have a weak position in that they are treat­ing various elements of society on a class struggle level and the attack on realism is unfounded, because in order to have any kind of discourse you have to presuppose a public reality, said Searle 
"Higher education is essen­tially elitist. It is made up of the best faculty and students and mediocrity is not allowed," said Searle in conclusion to his lec­ture. 


MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 
272~6722 
Serving tfu ?{ptre 'Dame communityfor over 30 years 

----~-­
page 4 The Observer 
SMC celebrates 148th Founders' Day 
By KELLY JENNINGS News Writer 
Saint Mary's will celebrate Founders' Day, the 148th an­niversary of the founding of the College, today through a full day of events planned to com­memorate the occasion. 
"The Legend Uves On!" is the theme of this year's Founders' Day celebration, which is spon­sored by the Student Alumnae Association. 
The purpose of Founders' Day is to honor Mother Angela Gillespie and Father Edward 



Americans win Nobel medicine prize 
-~------------------~~---~--­

Sarin, co-founders of Saint Mary's College. The day is traditionally celebrated on or around October 13, which is the feast of Saint Edward, confessor and patron saint of Father Sarin. 
Founders' Day is an impor­tant celebration because it "reminds students of the histor­ical and traditional background of the College,"according to Lisa Campione, chairwoman of the Student Alumnae Association. 
Activities for the day include an Open House and tours at the Riedinger Alumnae House from 

NOBEL 
Medicine • 1992 
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. From noon until 1 p.m., all students, fac­ulty, staff, and administration are invited to a reception in Stapleton Lounge. The recep­tion will include displays of historical photos and memora­bilia, prize give-aways, and re­freshments. 
The dining hall will serve a prime rib dinner for students, and the day will be capped by a performance by the campus band Sister Chain from 9 to 11 
p.m. in the basement of Holy Cross Hall. 
The Saint Mary's Board Gl)vernance (BOG) ted ntght that a new system wilLsoon be Le Mans HalL trrt +The system is designed provide t'utther safety fort hall residents and is intend to eventually be installed in the Saint Mary's residen halls, according to the Boar ... 
LeMans residents will bef!:b sued universal campus lD, cards which will serve to ac;cess them to the.libr dhtirig hall; and Le M staJrwells, · ac'cording 
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
. for the safety of 
the stLtdeJllts, said Cararra. 
Will be issued indj• codes for the'elevator. will be programmed to go only from the first floor to the computer labln the 
entand the' third hapel after business hour,s. tudents must 'also 
itors at the stairwell since 
ese do.ors nly f;)pened using pets codes. ....,,,,, 
, The access system is in part response to tP.~Jact tP.at ·,~r>4,000 viril~~t ctiriies ccur on college campuses 

STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) ­Two Americans shared the Nobel Prize in medicine yester­day for discovering a basic pro­cess in human cells that is linked to cancer and rejection of transplanted organs. 
Dr. Edwin Krebs, 74, and Edmond Fischer, 72, who has dual Swiss-American national­ity, were awarded the $1.2 mil­lion prize for their research on "reversible protein phosphory­lation." 
"It is one of the most impor­tant (chemical) reactions by which cells are turned on and off," Fisher told The Associated Press in an interview from his home in Seattle. "Tens of thou­sands of reactions in the cell can be regulated. It's involved in every aspect of cell growth, proliferation, differentiation." 
Fischer and Krebs, who are senior researchers at the Uni­versity of Washington, began working together in the 1950s. 
They discovered an important class of enzymes called protein kinases. These enzymes turn on essential biological functions inside the cell through activation of proteins. Other enzymes called phosphatases regulate deactivation. 
The work by Fischer and Krebs has helped scientists un­derstand how the drug cy­closporin prevents the rejection of transplanted organs, and why certain cancers and aller­gies develop. 
"It absolutely can lead the trail to a cure for cancer," said Fischer. 
The Nobel Assembly at the Karolinska Institute announced the winners before it could reach them by telephone, so 

Forum 
continued from page 1 
then well-fed and slaved." 
The Ethical Issues debate is the first of three forums orga­nized by Keenan senior Brian Fought before the November elections. "Bush came here and delivered a stump speech and Clinton came and gave a speech many took offense at, " 
Winners since 1988 
1992 Edwin G. Krebs & Edmond 
H. Fisher, United States 1991 Erwin Neher & Bert Sakmann, 
Germany 1990 Joseph E. Murry & 
E. Donnan Thomas, United States 
1989 J. Michael Bishop & Harold E. Varmus, United States 1988 Sir James W. Black, Great Britain Gertrude Elion & George H. Hitchings, United States 

APf!Nm. J. Castello 
Krebs and Fischer heard the news from the U.S. media. 
Krebs was at home, on the Columbus Day holiday, but did not get the message for five hours because he is partially deaf and did not hear his tele­phone ringing. He was told of the award by an Associated Press photographer, and later told the Nobel Assembly by telephone, "It makes it all be­lievable to hear it from you." 
"We were certainly among the very first to do this kind of work," said Krebs, a native of Lansing, Iowa. 
The award is based on re­search done by Fischer and Krebs from 1955 through 1965. It took 10 years for the scientific community to begin to understand the field, which is now one of the most important in modern research, said Dr. Hans Wigzell of the !';obel 
Assembly's research committee. 
"Then it took off like a rocket. Now 10 percent of all biology articles in journals like Nature or Science deal with their field," Wigzell said. 
Fischer said that back in the 1950s he had not realized the importance of their discoveries. "That's not the way it works," he said. "In fact, when we found out this reaction, we didn't know if it was something very unique or very unimpor­tant." 
"Then over the years many many people working in this area have developed the field and now we know that it's in­volved in just about every reac­tion inside the cell," he said. 
Fischer is researching cell transformation, which is con­nected to the development of cancer. 
Krebs is concentrating on hormonal regulation, such as in diseases like diabetes. 
Members of the Nobel Assembly predict that it will be possible, but difficult, to develop medicines based on Krebs' and Fischer's prizewinning work that can be tailored to block or stimulate certain functions. 
Besides cyclosporin, no such drugs are currently in produc­tion, although research is un­derway in various fields, includ­ing development of drugs to prevent allergic reactions. 
Dr. Gosta Gahrton, a Nobel Assembly member, said Krebs' and Fischer's discovery "has great importance within cancer research. 

BILL FRANK 
NISSAN•SUZUKI•SUBARU 
15% Student Discount with I.D. FREE Shuttle Service to and from Campus 
•Brakes 
•Tune up •Tires 

•Exhaust 
•Alignments •Oil & Filter 

•No 
Job Too Little or B1g! 

•We 
accept credit cards 

•We 
service any make or model 

•We 
can make arrangements with your parents long distance 51176 U.S. 33 North Sou1h Bend 




r----4.5m-llesno-rthofN-otreDa-mecarTlJ-US---.e
277-5800 
said Fought, " so these forums give both sides a chance to dis­cuss the issues." 
The next forum , scheduled for Oct. 29, is one Fought ex­




The Observer
pects to be a volatile one be­cause the topic is "The Election from a College View." The last 
is now accepting applications 
forum, to be held Nov. 1, is " 

for the following paid position: 
Economics in the Election." 

+ 
Assit. Saint Mary's Editor 
Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 239-5303 or
American 284-5440 for more information.
Red Cross 

Student Body President;, each year, according to the Christina Carrara. Under this board, .Under .tn~ fedef.al 
.. all stairwells and other . Right t() Know .A.ct, tlt~s entrance doors will belocked information can be disclosed and the.itcards will be to students tO;make them necessary for entering the aware of the building. Students will bave to proved """uu''"Y· take the tunnels to either < Haggar or the Cushwa> Leighton L~brary to exit Le 


T ues:50°/o off everything (including appetizers) 
Weds:If you know what's happening, come in and give us a penny for your thoughts 

Thurs:Everything's $1 VELCRO jUMPING 
OMoCIC 
-


1150 Mishawaka Ave.,O 0 
--+----llilll:lllliiL-­

South Bend, IN c--1 i, 
.. 
c:•


288--0285 

-----.,.---4.,• '! 
~ 



OPEN AUDITIONS!!!! 
fDRTIIE 
ST. ED'S PRODUCfiON OF 

0ut 0 f the Frying 
Pan 

(A COMEDY IN THREE ACTS) 
will be held this commg Tuesday and Wednesday (Oct.l3 & 14) from 9-11 pm m Room 123 Nieuwland 
No preparation necessary!! 
-----~-----~-----­
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 The Observer 
ELECTION '92 


ELECTION BRIEFS 

TV commercials and the next· part of the day in a Dallas second half~h(;)ur program Sharon Hoimtj-11 said. Four i:q .e showed the Dallas billioiiai ~· He spent 
ofilming a k.eswoman 
ei1tPoHs gained in 

popularity froni Sunday's deba~. But tbe polls gave mixed signals about Perot's ability to win. 
·:vice presidential II visit IJ:ldianapolis to his party's effort to day~ M ·· .11 Quayle, Quayle. tour the Repub\ic!!-ntick.et. Mrs. a schoofin New Albany, talk to 
Dame 
for Repubijcan women Indianap(}ijs, 


High stakes for Bush 
Must consider underdog role 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Bush is left with a daunt­ing task and a terrible choice for the next two presidential debates. To change the dynam­ics of a campaign almost be­yond reach, he must consider taking on the role of the under­dog that he has thus far eschewed. 
In the first debate, Bush spoke of his experience in foreign affairs and tried to assure voters that his domestic policy, too, was the safest and best ap­proach for the future. 
He only gently went after Democrat Bill Clinton on his Vietnam War resistance, and said barely an ill word toward 
Ross Perot. 

It would have been a good performance for an incumbent president ahead in the polls, but not for one trailing by more than 10 points. And it did noth­ing to change the dynamics of the campaign. 
"I guess I'd say the president went to bat in the World Series and never took the bat otT his shoulder," lamented one Bush campaign worker, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Instant polling suggested the Bush message, although posi­tive, had less effect on the vot­ers than the presentations by his rivals. 

Clinton: 'We held our own' 
(AP)-Bill Clinton, leading in the polls and brimming with confidence, said Monday, "We held our own," in the first of three presidential debates. President Bush said, "I think I did okay," but some aides said he had missed chances to con­front his challenger vigorously. 
On the morning after Great Debate I, the Bush and Clinton camps agreed that Ross Perot had helped his cause. Still, the polls indicated the 90-minute confrontation had done little to alter the trend in the race for the White House. 
No change was good news for Clinton, bidding to become the first Democrat in the White House in a dozen years. 
The Arkansas governor was all smiles in South Philadelphia as he sounded his persistent call for economic change. "In the last four years, there has been a decline.. .in the whole United States of America, a de­cline of 35,000 jobs" in private industry, he said. 
He passed the word through aides that he was ready to jettison his top economic advisers in a second term. 

Spotlight now on VP candidates 
ATLANTA (AP) -The presidential campaign spotlight now shifts to Dan Quayle, AI Gore and James Stockdale as the three running mates square off for their only debate. 
For Quayle, the showdown Tuesday night in Atlanta could be especially critical. Not only is President Bush in dire need of a campaign lift, but, if the Bush-Quayle ticket loses in November, this may be the vice president's last showcase op­portunity for a long while to bolster his chances for a run at the top job in 1996. 
Gore, too, could have more than just top-of-the­ticket interests at stake, since he also is a regarded a presidential prospect. But the debate outcome-barring an utterly disastrous show­ing-isn't likely to be as pivotal for his own career. Regardless of what happens in November, he will have a strong political power base-either the vice presidency or a secure Senate seat from Tennessee. 
The No. 2s are set to meet just two days after Bush, Bill Clinton and Ross Perot faced otT in St. Louis in the first of three presidential debates. 
Because the polls show Bush trailing far behind Clinton, "Quayle has got to think about his own political future," said Erwin Hargrove, a political science professor at Vanderbilt University. 
"If we assume that Bush and Quayle are going to lose, Quayle is going to have to somehow resurrect himself politically if he wants to run for president or re-enter politics, and a good perfor­mance could help him," Hargrove said. 
For Quayle, the debate also represents an opportunity to redeem himself from what he concedes was a miserable performance in 1988, especially his ill-conceived attempt to compare himself to John Kennedy when debating Sen. Lloyd Bentsen of Texas. 
Two weeks ago he said, "I desperately want to debate." 
Student Home Watch Because Criminals Don't Go On Fall Break When you go on break, criminals go to work. They know that when students living off-campus leave town, they leave behind vacant homes or apartments containing stereos, T.V.'s, computers, etc. Through "Student Home Watch," a program designed by the South Bend Police, students can call the police before leaving town and request that their residence be checked periodically. To participate, call 235-9201 and tell the Police Operator you would like a "Student Home Watch." (Please only one request per residence and the home must be unoccupied during the requested time.) Call 235-9201 Don't forget to: Stop your mail while you are gone: stop newspaper delivery: put lights on timers: notify landlord: lock all doors and windows  








Business 
page 6 Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
INSIDE BUSINESS 
The Notre Dame MBA Program today 

By Larry Ballinger 
The Notre Dame MBA Program matriculated its first Class in 1967. This was a time in which the business world was in desperate need for managers who had the ability to organize, plan and direct the activities of busi­ness. While the supply of MBA's has increased over the years, the same need for quality managers still exists. 
Notre Dame currently offers two "tracks" leading to the MBA degree. First, a two year program for students with undergraduate degrees in areas other than business, and a three semester program which is designed for students with business degrees. We combine a course of study that is general in nature with an opportunity for students to specialize in their second year. 
From the beginning, two principle have guided the development of the Notre Dame MBA: business ethics and the global nature of business. 
In addition to a required course in international business, international perspectives are discusses in most of the functional areas. The MBA student at Notre Dame also has an opportunity to study abroad in one of several programs in London, England; Innsbruck, Aus­tria; and Lille, France. Additionally, we are planning to add a similar program in Santiago Chile in the Fall of 1993. Selected students are also expanding their experience and education as interns in the Netherlands and Japan, and soon London and Brussels. 
Long before Harvard dealt seriously with the issues of ethics and business, Notre Dame embraced the topic as a cornerstone. We provide our students with an understanding of the consequences of the decisions in which they participate or make. 
Many of our faculty deal with ethical issues that surface in such areas as accounting, finance, marketing, and communication. All students are enrolled in the course of "Government, Business and Society" which examines many of the ethical issues managers will face. New courses in ethics are now in development and will be offered in marketing and finance in the Spring of 1993. 
Although not required like Boston College or other schools, the Notre Dame MBA program greatly encourages involvement in community service. For more than twenty years, our students have participated in activities such as Urban Plunge, Christmas in April, Junior Achievement, Big Brothers/Sisters, and The South Bend Center for the Homeless, among others. 
In all, Notre Dame offers a very special experience to students who can accept an academic challenge in an environment that offers future business leaders more than the technical managerial skills. Notre Dame offers an MBA program for men and women who want to make a difference in the world as they succeed in business. 
Larry Ballinger is director of the Notre Dame MBA Program for the College ofBusiness Administration. 

U.S. Dollar Outlook 
Global Stock Market Monitor 
Weekly Data in U.S. dollar terms; Dec. 27, 1991=100 
uo~~~~-o~~~"~-r-oo-o-~"-o~-, 
%Change 
12/31/91­9/30/92 9/30/92 
COUNTRY INDEX Close (U.S. dollars) 
11191 1992 
Smaller and Emerging Markets 
(Ranked by year-to-date change in U.S. dollar terms) 
Philippines  Composite index  
Thailand  SET index  
Belgium  BEL 20 index  
United States  Dow Jones Industrials  
New Zealand  NZSE-40 index  
Austria  Credit Aktien index  
Ireland  Irish Stock Exchange index  
Norway  Oslo Stock Exchange index  
South Korea  Composite index  
Denmark  Copenhagn Exchange index  
Sweden  Affarsvarlden all-share  
Taiwan  Weighted index  
South Africa  Johannesburg Gold index  

Source: Datastream International Courtesy WSJ 
1404.54  29.41%  
847.00  20.11  
1109.17  8.63  
3271.66  3.25  
1429.09  -4.98  
326.64  -5.97  
589.03  -8.60  
329.88  -17.18  
513.82  -19.14  
262.79  -19.65  
696.65  -20.72  
3524.21  -21.43  
902.00  -21.68  

The Observer/Chris Mullins 



Investment Club gives students experience 
By ANDY RUNKLE Business Writer 
The Notre Dame Investment Club is organized to give students practical experience in investment and the stock market, according to Dave Indelicato, Investment Club president. 
The Investment Club holds a fund through which it presently invests in 20 stocks, including Abbott Laboratories, Phillip-Morris Inc., AT&T, and Apple Computers. The club meets weekly to discuss the movements in the stock market and specifically, the movements of their 20 stocks, according to Indelicato. 

U.S., EC negotiators seek world trade deal 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­American and European officials struggled for a second day Monday to end a longstanding stalemate in world trade talks. 
U.S. 
Trade Representative Carla Hills and European Community Trade Commissioner Frans Andriessen were trying to iron out disputes over European access to the American services market, while 

U.S. 
Secretary of Agriculture Ed­ward Madigan and EC Agriculture Commissioner Ray MacSharry sought a compromise on subsidies to farmers. 


Officials offered little insight as to 
J what progress, if any, the negotiations at the EC's head office were making. Andriessen spokesman Nico Wegter said the talks were positive and the tone excellent. But he clung to an EC escape hatch, saying no final agreements could be reached without input from the 108 nations that make up the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The talks opened Sunday in another bid to break a logjam in the 6-year-old GATT talks, which have stalled on price guarantees to cereal farmers and subsidies to exporters so they may sell the oversupply of grain at competitive world prices. 
The EC has agreed to slash both 
GM walks fine line in satisfying Wall Street 
DETROIT (AP) -General Motors Corp. is walking a fine line between keeping Wall Street sure of its restructuring pledge and pacifying the United Auto Workers union. 
GM's avoidance of a potentially devastating UAW strike in Anderson, Ind., is the latest example of the dilemma. A strike there could have shut down all of the leading automaker's North American plants at a cost estimated at $200 million a week. 
GM is giving the UAW a voice in the details of its massive downsizing by trading new jobs for vague assurances of increased productivity at Anderson and last month at Lordstown, Ohio. Labor disputes between GM and other UAW locals are simmering. 
That doesn't sit well with some Wall Street brokerage houses. To varying degrees, they believe GM needs to take a hard line with its largest union to quickly get its downsizing out of the way. 
Because GM's master agreement 
The meetings are then opened for investment proposals. The club members actually decide which stocks to buy and sell and when to do it, according to Indelicato. The money made is reinvested in the fund. "As the portfolio appreciates, the money is added to the fund," he said. 
The club is organized into five management teams, which review the news and movement of the stocks in a particular industry. The five management teams watch the following industries and stocks: consumer non-cyclical (Kroger), technology (Apple). utilities (AT&T), consumer cyclical (Time­Warner and HBO). and financial (American Express), according to 
types of subsidies, but the United States and other trade partners say the cuts are not enough. 
France, whose farmers will lose most if EC subsidies are cut, fears the EC will make new concessions to the United States. It has charged the Bush administration wants a GATT deal quickly as a pre-election strategy. 
"We should not submit ourselves to the hazards of an election campaign," French Foreign Minister Roland Dumas said late Sunday. "We want an accord on world trade but this cannot be at the cost of our vital interests." 
Dumas' remarks held the veto threat, as EC nations can reject Community accords on grounds of damage to their interests. 
France, the EC's biggest agri­cultural nation, has been under pressure from its farming lobby to keep subsidies at a level unacceptable to the U.S. side. 
Washington wants to cut supports to guarantee free trade in farming goods across the globe. In 1991, the 12-nation EC paid out $83.6 billion in farm support, compared to $34.7 billion in U.S. support. 
It also opposes EC plans to replace current subsidies with fixed income payments to 90 percent of the EC's 10 million farmers. 
with the UAW requires that parts workers be paid the same as assemblers, it is costly to add new jobs at company-owned businesses. GM promised 240 new jobs at its Inland Fisher Guide bumper-making operation in Anderson. 
"The settlement really contributes to the company's current high cost position," David Garrity, an auto industry analyst with McDonald & Co. Investments in New York, said Monday. "I wouldn't necessarily attribute it as good news." 
Seventy percent of GM's parts are made in company-owned union shops, compared with 50 percent at Ford Motor Co. and 30 percent at Chrysler Corp. 
The integration between GM and its parts operations makes the automaker especially vulnerable to labor trouble. In addition to bumpers, the Inland Fisher Guide division plants in Anderson supply 95 percent of GM vehicles in North America with turn signals and other exterior lighting. 
Indelicato. 
Indelicato is hopeful that the club will receive another fund from the University with which to invest. The new fund would be used to buy securities. "We are also looking to buy some global securities on the Tokyo or London exchanges," Indelicato said. If obtained, the new fund would be managed separately from the existing fund. 
The Investment Club buys and sells through a Prudential Se­curities broker in South Bend. 
The club presently has 30 general members. "Yet, the club is open to all majors, not just business, so I encourage all to get involved," Indelicato added. 
USAir machinists start back to work 
(AP)-USAir ground crews who went on strike a week ago returned to work under a new wage-cutting contract for the resumption of full service today. 
Members of the Machinists union began going back Sunday night, a day after ratifying a contract that includes a one-year pay cut of 3.5 percent but prevents the hiring of non-union workers to handle baggage and de-ice planes. 
A full schedule of 2,712 flights was planned today, airline spokesman John Bronson said. 
The strike by more than 8,000 mechanics and other workers had forced USAir to cancel up to one-quarter of its flights. 
The Machinists knew they had to make some concessions on wages to keep their jobs, a union spokesman said. USAir, the nation's sixth-largest airline, has lost more $700 million over the last year. 
"I think reality's setting in that the economy's really bad and we're going to have to take some big hits," said Gerald Sandoval, a spokesman for a Machinists local that represents 275 USAir workers in Indianapolis. 
"There's plenty of people out there out of work in the aircraft industry, and there's been quite a few companies that have gone under. This had to be settled quickly." 
The agreement ending the strike was reached Thursday after a 24-bour bargaining session. 
Several airlines have fallen victim to the recession and the Persian Gulf War, which scared off passengers and raised fuel prices. 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
The Observer 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992·93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reputation is a tragic thing ·to lose Professor did not deserve 
Dear Editor: While the editors of Dialogue pages of your magazine with I am trying to reach the Notre live in that kind of milieu, its allegations if you have failed to 'shameful' ridicule Dame community with this transfer to the college campus use available procedures. commentary through The Ob­is poisonous. If you do not understand such Dear Editor: cess, and its evaluation involves server, because another publi­Faculty and students have a procedures, open your Bible to In the September 1992 issue a variety of components. To cation has breached the norms learning covenant with each Matthew 18:15-17. The Bible of the campus magazine Dia­take one set of anecdotes and of our community, the damage other. No faculty member is, after all, normative for logue, the editors viciously at­characterize not only a profes­to a person's reputation is would breach that covenant by Catholics and Dialogue cele­tacked my friend and colleague sor's teaching but their mo­enormous, and it would take naming a student in public brates our Catholicism. Suzanne Marilley as one who tives, is inexcusable. weeks to rectify the situation on press and ridiculing his/her al­We do not know whether this is "could not care less about the the pages of that publication. leged poor performance. a personal vendetta by an ed­Notre Dame undergraduates." Our public space is narrowed 
The professor's evaluation goes itor, whether it is a person who They do this by picking her when it is filled with speech In the September 1992 issue of to the student and is nobody wants to test libel laws, or out for their satirical monthly that is mean spirited, narrow, a campus magazine called else's business, unless a pattern somebody who has no regard award, and on the basis of alle­and based on unjust evalua­Dialogue, the editors single out of weak performance persists for the fragile nature of trust in gations concerning tardiness of tions. my colleague, Suzanne Marilley and it may be a matter of communities. paper grading in one class. to receive a dubious award. concern to a department chair Even a professed concern for Having said that, there is no The citation refers to or dean. the balance between teaching Suzanne Marilley cares presumption that there is any "administrators and teachers Even if the student evaluation and research could not justify deeply about Notre Dame un­remedy for the problem, except who could not care less about reaches a higher level it never such a breach in covenant. dergraduates, and has evi­to hope that an appropriatethe Notre Dame undergradu­appears in the press. A reputation is a tragic thing to denced this in countless ways sense of shame would come ates." The other side of the covenant lose -yours or hers. during her years at Notre upon those who, like the editors This award seems to be concerns grievances against a We have all been cheapened by Dame,. To publicly ridicule a of Dialogue in this instance, fashioned after the "Golden professor. If a student alleges this episode -faculty, students, person on the basis of allega­have made the problem worse. Fleece" award that politician something amiss, talk to the the learning community. tions concerning one class is an use to pillory grant recipients professor. If it persists, write to For shame -in a magazine, in irresponsible and shameful John Roos for projects with funny sound­the chair or the dean. this era of doublespeak called practice. Department of Government ing titles. The University has many ways dialogue! Teaching is a complex pro-Their purpose, of course, is to evaluate members' political -to help get a person performance as teachers; they David C. Leege 
Faculty is entitled to normal
(re)elected by ridiculing a pub­involve semesters of assess­Department of Government lic expenditure. ment. But don't plaster the Oct. 8, 1992 

DOONESBURY 
MR. PEROT; AS YOU ftKJI,(J I'M MJNPCR/N3f0/,(J YOUR AR£ YOU SURe, 
a!HATW

KN~ RlWNIN6FOR FAMitY Flzt/3 ABOUT ~IR? 7H!3/?AY 
>WMMN?

PR£51/?&NT CAN 813 YOUR JlJMPIN6 BACK }()()a:a.AR£C?I 
a/HAT'!?

PRETTYR/XIGH.•. INTO 7HE3 FRAY. 7H?l/(jHTH/fR. 
ITSAY?

FAC£541/? /TALL-. 

""' \ / 
life outside of classroom too 
Dear Editor: 
In regard to Dialogue's recent Students, graduate or under­Malloy award, students expect graduate, who think the quality to have a life outside my class­of their undergraduate educa­room, to be treated decently if tion requires that, as a group, illness, job interviews, or rep­they must be given first priority resentation of the University in in the activities of every one of 
intercollegiate competition in­their professors, have taken terfere with optimal or com­their eyes off the target. pletely punctual performance. The target is excellent in­
struction and fair evaluation. 

Faculty expect to have a life Are we having fun yet? outside the classroom, to be treated decently if illness or re­Ed Manier sponsible professional activity Philosophy Professor requires modification of normal Oct. 8, 1992 pedagogical procedures. Sound fair so far? 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ITSA/0. "I'MMAR­RIW lOA P5i01011C, AN/?7HEP&'SNOTA 1?AMN 7HIN6 I CAN mAI30UTtT.'' 
\~~~ 
'laws are like sausages. It's better not to see them made.' 
Otto Von Bismark 
Don't be a meat-head, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


---------------------------------~ 




Viewpoint
page 8 Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

What a long, strange trip it's been for Notre Dame 

It was 25 years ago this fall that I was first published in The Observer, a weekly, eight-page campus paper written by a skeletal staff of political ac­tivists. 
A columnist had condemned the tradition that underclass­men not use the front steps of the Administration Building, and I wrote a letter to the editor about how I didn't come all the way to Indiana to go to a school that didn't have tradition. 
The letter was a good exam­ple of high freshman dudgeon and at least one copy was clipped and posted on a wall for the amusement of my elders. 
Every so often, over the next four years someone would make the connection and ask me about it. "Are you the flamer who wrote that asinine letter?" they would ask. 
But it was true: I didn't go all that way to attend a school without tradition. Sure, the place annoyed me from time to time, but, let's face it, Notre Dame without tradition is just four years of bad weather. 
Academic excellence? Sure, it's a good school. But I was there because it was Notre Dame, and, like a lot of Domers, I turned down another good school -in my case, Boston College -for the privilege of not walking up the front steps of the Administration Building. 
What I found at the college of my choice in 196 7 may not be what you'd expect, if you'd ben watching "The Big Chill" and listening to Freedom Rock, man. 
The hip kind of students the media portrays as typical weren't a majority, even at the big state universities like Ann Arbor or Madison. At Notre Dame, hip students were barely an identifiable minority 25 years ago. 
The school was, then, pretty much what it is now: A moder­ately conservative, upper-mid­dle-class Catholic university for moderately conservative, upper­middle-class Catholic students. 
A quarter century ago, that meant guys (and there were only guys) in tasseled loafers, glen-plaid slacks and London Fog windbreakers, while the Saint Mary's girls (and they were always called "girls") 
Pete Peterson 
Guest Columnist 

wore skirt-blouse-sweater combinations or culottes with penny loafers or white tennies. 
Most of these people had worn uniforms to school since kindergarten. These were their college uniforms. 
The place was consistently conservative. Most schools were struggling with visitation rules, but Michigan State had a dorm that was at least co-ed by towers. 
At Notre Dame, we could have female visitors for a few hours on football Saturdays, and on an occasional Sunday afternoon. We had to wear coats and ties to dinner. Se­niors could have cars on cam­pus, but only after Easter. Off­campus students had to live with a landlord on the premises, not in the other half of a duplex. 
Lights-out and curfews were a thing of the very recent past for us, but the Saint Mary's girls had curfews and had to sign out to leave campus. 
They couldn't go out of town overnight without a note from home, and were subject to bed­checks at any hour of the night. 
The content of the rules was secondary to the amount of control being exerted, and there weren't that many people who were willing to do anything about it. 
It was accepted as a given, as if it were a military academy: That's the way it is, that's the way it's supposed to be. 
The people who bitched, who tried to do something about it, were looked on as misfits. There was something wrong with them. They weren't 
maintaining their coolness. They were assholes. The tradition was to fit in, to do the thing that was done. 
That was the tradition The Observer writer had criticized, and I wasn't there long before I understood. 
I came to Notre Dame with short hair, Buddy Holly glasses and the half-formed idea that, having gotten into the college of my choice, the only thing left was to get good grades, watch some football. date some nice girls. and walk out in four years with a Notre Dame diploma. 
By the time I graduated, I had hair to my shoulders, John Lennon glasses and a guitar. I had testified at a political trial, lived in a commune, witnessed a Chicago Police riot, gone to a rock festival in a cornfield, eaten pizza with Linda Ron­stadt, and dropped out of school for a year to write a novel. I had inhaled it, and I had en­joyed it. 
Oh, and I walked up the stairs of the Administration Building, too, the time we took it over to protest Dow Chemical and the CIA. 
More about that another time. 
Pete Peterson, class of 1971, is a business writer with the Press-Republican, a daily newspaper in Plattsburgh, New York. 

Racism comes in various colors 
Dear Editor: 
I wish to thank Tom Pitstick for his letter defending his hometown of Simi Valley, Calif., from the negative press result­ing from the Rodney King ver­dict. 
I agree with Pitstick that it is inherently unfair to condemn an entire city for the decision of a jury made up mostly of citizens from neighboring areas. 
Moreover, we should all take to heart his appeal for greater understanding and fellowship between the various cultures that make up America. 
However, I must clarify a point. Pitstick, in denouncing accusations of racism in his hometown, stated that he has "never seen or heard of anyone dressed in a KKK outfit" and has "never read about a racial beating in the local paper." 
While I doubt that he intended to limit evidence of racism to these types of facts, we would be exposing our ignorance by believing that racism manifests itself only in outrageous conduct of this sort. The results of such ignorance, as we have seen, can be tragic. 
Racism commonly operates in an insidious manner, relent­lessly coloring and distorting our perception of others. It ex­ists where the Latino is denied a decent education. 
It exists where the African American cannot rise to fulfill her career potential. It exists where the Asian is not permitted to speak his native tongue at work. It exists where the Native American is virtually imprisoned by nonexistent economic opportunities. 
Racism, however, is generally more prevalent and injurious at the personal level: the way a person may ignore your contributions; the way a person may avoid you because he as­sumes you cannot speak English; the way a person may off-handedly employ ethnically derisive expressions or stereo­types in conversation (typically followed by polite laughter); or sometimes just the way a per­son looks at you. 
Too many of us lack the sensitivity to comprehend the impact of seemingly trivial incidents such as these, or simply do not care to address them. 
Nevertheless, these kinds of incidents are often the cruelest degradations of self-respect and of pride in our cultures because they are so commonplace and thus excused. 
It would. however, be naive to expect people to naturally develop the level of sensitivity required for fostering multicul­tural understanding, especially when raised in homogeneous environments. 
Respect for the rich variety of customs and languages offered by the ethnicities comprising the American population cannot be gained within the confines of an isolated neighborhood. 
I do not mean to imply by any means, however, that products of such circumstances invari­ably harbor racist tendencies and/or are doomed to perpetu­ate them. Instead, I believe that if we are to take a stand against racism, we must recognize its presence in our own selves and our environment. 
To that extent, as long as we are aware that our conduct may be inappropriate, that our speech may be offensive, that our attitude may be insensitive, we are taking a great stride in the right direction. 
Being from Los Angeles, I share many of Pitstick's con­cerns and frustrations over the riots that engulfed my home­town in fire and blood. 
What pained me the most was that I, and many other Angelenos, had ingenuously believed that Los Angeles was the model of multicultural and multiracial harmony in America, that the people of this town lived and worked hand-in­hand, 
peacefully and productively. The riots woke us up to a menacing reality. 
The ascent to cosmopolitan unity (if that is our objective) requires concerted effort and sacrifice by everyone. Our sur­vival demands that we confront the issues head on, as distaste­ful and insurmountable and explosive as they may seem. 
We must deal with the eco­nomic, social, and political fis­sures that sunder us from one another. No longer can we avert our eyes from the simmering flames of racism that threaten to burn our homes to the ground forever. 
Racism kills. If we don't rec­ognize it within ourselves and others, and take action to neu­tralize it, we risk losing our brothers and sisters to an en­emy we cannot even see. 
Racism, at all levels and in all forms -from the KKK down to the barely noticed epithet ­must be stopped if we hope to leave our children a place to live. 
Mark Yoshida Law Student Sept. 28, 1992 


Notre Dame faculty speaks out on 'Malloy awe' 
Dear Editor: 
The Observer missed its chance to have some Fighting Irish fun: Your little -down-in­the-corner box entitled COR­RECTION: (10.5) tersely stated: "An article regarding Holy Cross College in Friday's Observer should have read 'Father Sorin travelled from France over 150 years ago.· The Observer regrets the er­ror." 
For those who did not read the article, the hilarious error read: "The bond between Notre Dame and Holy Cross stretches back to when Father Sorin travelled from Ireland with six brothers over 150 years ago." 
John Cowan, the writer, un­wittingly had Father Sorin hailing from the Emerald Isle. 
At the stroke of a pen these seven Frenchmen became Friendly Sons of St. Patrick determined to inaugurate the Fighting Irish tradition at Du Lac. 
John Cowan could have been carried-away what with his authentic Irish name: The Cowans are a well-known clan in Dublin and Ulster. Or did John yield to the urge for a bit of Gaelic "divilmint!?" 
The Observer staff should be made aware of the gales of merriment that erupted on campus, especially among us of Irish descent. 
Here was a precious myth aborning that could underpin the lore of Notre Dame as The Fighting Irish. Non-mythical is the historical fact that a num­ber of young Irish immigrants were accepted by Father Sorin for the Holy Cross Brotherhood, joining them to his all-French starters. 
So unwittingly or not John Cowan gave us all a hearty laugh! And we thank him "with the lilt of Irish laughter." 
For all we know -or don't know -Father Sorin might have been an Irish orphan lad adopted by a caring French family. 
Otherwise why did he have the Italian painter, Luigi Gre­gori, paint the ceiling of the Lady Chapel in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, holding aloft a larger-than-life, greener­than-green shamrock! 
I rest my case with Up with Ireland! Vive le France! Viva John Cowan! 
Vincent Ferrer McAloon, SPQR Notre Dame Alumnus '34 
'36 
Columba Hall 





Accent 
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 page 9 



Aquincentennial celebration 
'Christopher Columbus Follies' aims to educate about the Columbus legend 
By CHRIS HATTY Their productions are related for the "Follies," and the the group will display photos problems that it presents, Accent Writer to historical and political original music was written by of the Trail of Tears. This set she said. Rather, its issues. For instance, during Stephen Cummings and of photos will pictorially members hope that, after 
In 1492, Christopher the 1970's, one of their Brian Folkins-Amador. describe the massive seeing the show, the Columbus discovered North themes was the problem of government-enforced audience can draw its own America. In 1992, the people political refugees. The The show revolves around migration of Native conclusions. living on that continent troupe's themes in the 1980's the question of how Americans from the Eastern The sponsors of the show, wonder just how they should addressed homelessness and Columbus would view the United States to the West and which include the esc and feel about the discovery. In the arms race. world SOO years after his Southwest. the Student Union Board, an attempt to elucidate In 1992, instead of greeting fateful discovery. While hope that "The Christopher matters for the Notre Dame the SOOth anniversary of exploring this theme, the According to Bradley, the Columbus Follies: An Eco­and Saint Mary's College Columbus' voyage with flag performers also explore a presentation is intended to Cabaret" will provoke communities, the waving and a parade, the variety of theatrical media. make the viewer think about widespread discussion in the Underground Railway troupe designed a thought­Live music, stand up comedy, the issues involved in Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Theater, a national touring provoking show that will also and puppetry are among the Columbus' voyage. community. In fact, several group, will be performing provide plenty of laughter. means the Theater uses to "The show is supposed to classes will be seeing and "The Christopher Columbus The Theater works by get its message across. make us think whether we discussing the show. Follies: An Eco-Cabaret" discussing the issues at hand, should be celebrating the However, the production is tonight in Washington Hall, and then creating sketches In support of the theme of SOOth anniversary or not intended to amuse the according to Julie Bradley of related to them. the "Follies," the group will learning about the events audience, according to the Center for Social also exhibit photographs that have taken place since Bradley. Concerns. They then hire a writer to during the intermission. On then," she said. 
As the title of the provide a cohesive script, display will be pictures from "While awareness is the production indicates, the Bradley said. Cathy Cevoli the infamous battle of The troupe does not claim primary motive for the "Follies" takes a left of center supplied the script and lyrics Wounded Knee. In addition, to provide the answers to the 'Follies,' we do want to approach to the discovery of emphasize that it will be America, as well as to the entertaining," she said. This progress of Western is the second time the civilization in the 500 years Underground Railway since then. This fact aside, Theater has toured the the performance isn't United States for the designed simply to damn "Follies," and if reviews of Columbus or America, the first tour are any Bradley said. indication, Bradley is right in 
her assessment. 

"That was not our goal at "The Christopher Columbus all." she said, speaking on Follies: An Eco-Cabaret" will behalf of the Center for play tonight at 8:00 PM in Social Concerns, one of the Washington Hall. Tickets are show's sponsors. available at the LaFortune 
"The production is not a Information Desk, the Center criticism of Columbus," for Social Concerns, and at Bradley said. "It is intended the door. The cost is $7 for to make people aware of General Admission, and $S issues, especially issues for students. concerning Native Americans and exploitation of the The show is sponsored by environment. The voyage is the CSC and SUB, but by just a background, an excuse student government, the to look at those things." Multicultural Executive 
The Underground Railway Council, and the Helen
Members of the Underground Railway Theater, pictured here, will perform "The Christopher
Theater is a troupe from Kellogg Institute for
Columbus Follies" tonight at Washington Hall at 8 p.m.
Boston that formed in 1976. International Studies. 

'1492 : Conquest of Paradise' shows Columbus' pre-voyage ambition 
By PETER BEVACQUA Film Critic Ridley Scott's latest film,  CoI u m bus found the New r--•1~49=2:-:C:-0:--0:-q-ue-s-=t-0-..1•p:­8r-a--d..-is--e---, admirable. M i c h a e I World?). d d b S Wincott's portrayal of the Scott is cognizant of the Pro uce yRidley cott and amoral antagonist, Moxica, inherent pitfalls in merely Alain Goldman who precipitates the revolt  return to Spain ... the ensuing reunion with his family, and his parting conversations with Sanchez, Queen Isabel  
"1492: Conquest of Paradise," depicts Columbus as a man obsessed with a desire to discover the New World.  retracing the historical significance of the explorer's voyages. What saves the film from being a cinematic regurgitation of a tale we know all too well is its  Directed by Ridley Scott Starring: Gerard Depardieu,A d A ds· rman ssante, an IQOUrneyWeaver  against Columbus in Hispaniola is also quite compelling. There are a few scenes in the film which border on the absurd. Moxica's  and his son, Fernando. The last quarter of the film reveals a man betrayed by history, scorned by the contempt of his peers, and aged by the unfulfilled  
Columbus,  brilliantly  inspection of Columbus, the  dramatic "plunge to death"  aspirations of his dreams.  
portrayed  by  Gerard  man.  * * *  in  an  act  of  warped  
Depardieu, must convince  martyrdom  is  a  bit  "1492" rids Columbus of  
the Catholic Church and the Spanish Crown that his  The film is stunning, the  visually ridiculous-it is hard to(out of five) scenery L---------------.J separate his jump from that  any of the blame that many have attributed to him  
endeavors are both possible  unquestionably authentic,  debated  today,  is  too  of Susan Sarandon and  throughout history and this  
and lucrative.  the music inspiring, and the  favorable  within  the  Geena  Davis  at  the  may anger many. However, it  
The problem, inevitable as  motives of the undeniably sincere.  man  f"l d t th1 m ... an ye , e performance of Depardieu  conclusion of Scott's previous hit, "Thelma and Louise."  is hard to deny that Scott's image of Columbus, whether  
it may be, is that every single spectator is familiar with the  "1492" suggests that Columbus. is a pioneer torn  convinces the viewer of the man's genuine intent to  The role of the native Indian interpreter is asinine;  it is historically and/or morally correct, is of a man  
hardships Columbus  was  between  the  heroics  of  locate a new Eden.  he  has  a  command  of  who,  in  the  words  of  
forced to endure in order  exploration and the love of  linguistics comparable to that  Emerson, "discovered no isle  
that  his  dream  could  his family. Perhaps, Scott's  The  performances  of  of Noam Chomsky.  or key so lonely as himself."  
eventually be realized (We never ask ourselves during the film: Wow, I wonder if  VISion of Columbus, a actions are  Christopher figure whose so fervently  Armand Assante (Sanchez) and Sigourney Weaver (Queen Isabel) are very  The most powerful part of "1492" is Columbus' forced  "1492," whether you hate Columbus or love him, is a film well worth seeing.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 1o 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATIENTION: 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 orS00-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
WordWorks Typing Service 
Term papers, dissertations, theses 
277-7406 
APPLYING TO THE LONDON PROGRAM? 
Beat the rush ... 
Get your 
APPLICATION 
in before break 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Black and Gold Crucifix (Broken from Chain) If found please call Bill x1131 
BIG REWARD, no questions asked For my class ring lost 1 0 I 1. If found, please call Andrew 283-4076. 
...Lost on North Quad''' My roommate has locked me out of the room and I can't get back in without my keys. They're on a leather string, #407. 
Also, I lost a silver Notre Dame medal on a silver chain which belonged to my grandfather when he went here. It says No. 141 on the back. I know it looks really cool, but it means a lot to me. I'll give you money, whatever, just give it back. MATI x1530 
Lost: Water Supply and Sewage Book (McGhee, 6th ed.) Blue-If found, contact Matt at 277-8178. Midterms are coming! 
HELP!!!!! I LOST A THIN GOLD BRACELET MADE OF HEARTS. ... It was a present from my boyfriend and one of my most sentimental possessions. If you find it, will you please do the kindest thing you'll have ever done and return it to me? I promise a reward to the person who places that bracelet back in my hands! Thanks! 
COLLEEN LYNN 
238WALSH 
X4528 
lost: blue jean jacket with green collar and flannel liner please call Pat 272-8115 

WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & 
Prices! 1-800-678-6386. 
NEED TO GET TO HOUSTON, TEXAS, or anywhere along the way over October Break? We need a rider/driver to help drive rental car. Must be at least 21yrs old to drive rental car. Costs will be relatively inexpensive. Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at x4758 ASAP if interested!!!! 
WANTED: 2 Bost. Coli. GA's and 2 Penn St. GA's. If you can help, call ALEX x1928. 
Arthur Victor Painting Inc. is looking for Branch Managers for summer '93. Experience helpful but not necessary; complete training and field support. High income potential. 800-775-4745 
NEED a ride to OMAHA on 10/16 
call TIM @ x1696 
will help pay gas and tolls Fun female looking for a ride back to ND from Philly-Wilm.-S.N.J. area in time for the BYU game ­whenever. Will share driving & costs. Amy X4012 
SPRING BREAK! Campus Sales 
Reps. Individuals or organizations. 
High commission, free trip, easy work. Call College Travel 1-800­998-TRIP. 
Need ride to GRAND RAPIDS 
10-16 
X2331 
Three girls desparately need a ride to Chicago Midway on Friday October 16 by 7pm. Will help pay tolls and gas. Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at x4758 or x4721. 
Help! I need: 
1) 2 byu std tix, 1 ga. 
2) A SYR date, Oct. 30. 
3) A ride to Ohio on Thur or Fri. 
4) The Beatie's White album. Please call Sean at x1 067 soon!! 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. .. Begin NOW!. .. FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE STUDENT EMPLOYED BY STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION AND NEED MANAGERS FOR SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE, NILES, THREE RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. AND WORK HARD. AVG . EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800­543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH. 
Riders needed for October break. However, only one way between school and Baton Rouge-my parents are making me fly back. Please call Anne 284-4425. 
Going my way? Stopping in or driving through, DESPERATELY need a ride to MEMPHIS, TN for October break!! Will pay half the gas and all tolls! Kelly 284-5114 
NEED a ride to DETROIT on 10/16 call Jeff@ x1138 
I need a ride back from a small town between Nashville and Chatanooga on 1-24 in Tennessee Will help pay for gas, etc . 
Please Call Dave x 1740 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 

FOR SALE 
R.T. BUS TICK. to CLEVI::LAND B.O. X2862 
MacPius, 2.5 meg RAM, carrying case, ext. 800k drive, ext 20 meg HD, modem, lmagewriter. Asking 500. Call 273 9275. 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
TWO TICKETS TO NEWARK BETWEEN NOV. 22-NOV. 27.$150 EACH. 288-9658. 
MAC SE/20 & lmagewriter II Softwares and more, $1 000 Call 239-8713W or 271-1507H 
FLY TO WASI-l DC FOR BREAK 2 RT TIX 10116-10/21 $100 each 273-2752 


TICKETS 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL 
TICKETS.272-6306 
Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE 
need of Penn State GA's ..... 
Call Ann 284-5241 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston 
College GAs or student tix. Call Jill 
@ x4758 or x4721. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam 
x4842 Need One Ticket For Boston College!! I Call 273-2967111 

************HEY!***"'*********** 
I Need Tickets 
7 Penn State GA's 2 BC GA's 
If You Got'em Call JOCIE x3783 
Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and 2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665-1827. 
-NEED 2 BYU GA'&-­PARENTS ON 1800 MILE TRIP TO SEE ONE GAME. WILL PAY PRICE FOR TIX 
CHRIS x1463 

!@#$%'&'()!@#$%'&'()!@#$%•&· 
() 
BYU BYU BYU 

buy my BYU stud. ticket! BYU BYU BYU 
AMY x 4530 

!@#$%'&'()!@#$%'&'()!@#$%•&· 
() 
WANTED: 2-4 BYU GA's Call Marie X3818 
NEED 2 BC GA's & 2 PS GA's­JOSH X4107-leave message 
Need Penn St. Ga's -big $$$ Lisa 288-5196 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
FOR SALE FOR SALE 

We cannot go to the BYU game, so we are selling our stu tix. Please take advantage our misfortune. 
Thank you for your help. 
Mike 283-1161 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY COLD BY NOV. 21 AROUND HERE. LET ME PAY YOU TO SIT IN THE COMFORT OF YOUR ROOM OR FAVORITE BAR--ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS GIVE ME YOUR PENN STATE STUDENT TICKET­WHAT A GEAT DEAL! II CALL RICH AT xt 005 
I have 2 50 yd line BYU GAs & 2 BC GAs. I'm looking to trade for any Penn St. GAs. Joe x1395 
Need 4 G.A. tickets to BYU Game CALL -1851­
FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET BOOK CALL MEGAN X4667 
Wanted: 1 BYU GA. Call Mary x3427 
NEED PENN ST. GA'S NICK X4284 
•••••••NEED PSU TIX ........ Call Laurie x2998 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BYU Stud licks for sale Need BC Stud's & GA's Pat 272-8115 
45 yd line BYU stud for sale. CHEAP!!! call Michele @3194. 
HELP!!! I need 1 B.C. ticket. Stud. or G.A. Call x3490. 
I NEED Penn St. tix!ll G.A. only!!! Call Jessica x3490. 
BUY MY BYU! 
call Erin@ 2331 
Need PSU tix Mike 234-8306 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 

WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 
WANTED 3 GA's ND VS BYU 1 0/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355­7131 RON TICKETS NEEDED-tO plus BYU 
GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U 
California ALUM desperate for Penn State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. (( (415)597-2319 
Need 15 BYU GA's! 
289-7875 

&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Help me out, Help me out 
Because Because 
My parents, sisters and grandparents are coming for BYU. They would like to see one game together before I graduate. 
PLEASE offer your B Y U GAs to me. 
Thank you for your help. Joe G. x 1161 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
NEED 5 PSU, GA or STUDENT & A POOL TABLE CALL MATI@ 233-8514 
Need to trade 2 BC GA's for 2 BYU GA's Call Jim at 232-2107-after !O:OOpm. 
NEED 4 BYU GA's HEATHER 284­4369 
I need 4 BYU GA's in a bad way. WILL BEAT ANY OFFER II Chris 273-8470 
I'LL DO ANYTHING! for 1 or 2 GAs to B.C. Lisa 284-5080. 
Need BC GA's Joe #1112 
FOR SALE!!!! 
TWO MARRIED STUDENT 
TICKET BOOKS 
(no signatures needed) CHEAP TICKETS FOR FRIENDS OR FAMILY CALL BILL AT 299-1845 
2 sets married st tixs 277-6894 
$$$$$$$$$$ HELP!!! I NEED 1 GA FOR BYU 
TIM x2763 $$$$$$$$$$ 
ND Alum will pay good price for 4 BYU GA tix. Call (708) 359-2727 Mon-Fri 9-5. Ask for Mitch. 
No one understands how important it is for me to get: 
GA tickets for the BC game. 
Call Digger at xt 052 
Selling BYU and Penn student tickets. Luis 273-1528 
HAVE BYU STUD. TICKET. JAY X1528 
I need 2 BYU GA's. Call Greg x3460. 
Need 2 GA's for BC ASAP Call Derek 283-4522 
NEED ONE GA FOR BYU 
CH X2849 in PW 
I NEED 2 GOOD BYU GA's I GOT $$! BRIAN x 4073 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S QUICKLY!!! HAVE DAD'S $$$$$$TO SPEND CALL MATI AT X3006 ... 
•••••• NEED BYU GA'S ••••••• 
CALL DAN AT 
283-4499 
HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE CALL JENNY 215-265-7346. 
Available 2 BC & 2PSU GAs Call 
215-641-1154. 
SELLING BYU STUD. TICKET CALL ANN 2790 I need 2 BYU GA's 
will pay! II x2990 Paul 
FOR SALE: 1 BYU STUD. TIX. 
CALL MIKE x1975 
I NEED 2 B.C. GA'S call Tom 288-1027 

Selling 1 BYU Stud CHEAP -Jennifer 1257 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
You have what I want You have what I want 
and I am willing to pay for it yes, I will pay for it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME 
I desperately need it NOW!! 
Your right, I NEED GAs 
KYLIE 287-9118 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 

PERSONAL 

Hey Nil! 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am Eastern lime. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment ant training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Now that I know you London folks 
get the Observer, I can say hi to 
all of y'all-hey Eileen, Kathy, 
Colleen, Chad, Tim, Karen, and 
everybody else! Have a great 
time and remember your "mates" 
in the states! From Matt 
HELP! STRANDED GRACE FRESHMAN NEEDS A RIDE TO PHILLY AREA FOR FALL BREAK WILL SPLIT TOLLS, GAS, TICK­ETS AND BAIL!!! X1658 
HELP! NEED A RIDE TO TWIN CITIES-OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY 4 GAS & TOLLS. 284-5157 
MOM, PATMAN, JULIE, WILLY, ZHACK AND JACKIE: Do You like My Gift To You?? I Miss You !II Love, AMY 
HEY KEENAN GUYS! II!! Do you want ..FREE FOOD' ..? Do you want ..25 HOT P.E. WOMEN..? OK-this is what to do: 
1
. Go lind the sign-up outside Brother Bonaventure's Room. 

2. 
Sign up for the World Hunger Awareness Meal on Oct. 28th 

3. 
Come to the CSC on Oct. 28th at 5pm. for free food and hot women . That's it! Just do it! 


Dear Princess Bride Groupie, Come over anytime to get a quick fix. We know that you are fiending. As you wish, the stumbling fools. 
HELLO FLAT 3 LONDOMERS! ok so it took a while but here it is your first personal y'all are the greatest! are you talking to me? does your flat need a leader? (i'm sure it does) who is this guy? 
DAVE CERTO IS A BIG FAT WEENIEIII 
Amy, 
Get psyched 'cause ''we're going to London!" 
Tits 

Double Ditka Tuesday: 
Pope Ditka I 
A polish sausage a day keeps Mike Ditka away. 
ATIENTION LADIES!! 
The real SUAVE is in 50711! Get your rooms straight, dam mit. Oh, and ask for #7. 
Hugs and Kisses, 
RICO and RICO JR Listen to "Public Abrasion" this 
Tuesday at 7:30 on WVFI (640 on 
your AM dial) 
Why? As your mother would say, 
"It's good for you ..." 
VIDEO GAME CLUB 
Organizational meeting Tues. 13th @ 6:30 Dillon Lounge. S-NES, Genesis, PC and Arcade. Everyone Welcome. SF 2 and Madden tournies! Can't attend? Call Rob x1850 
WARM IT UP, D! 
(Chicken soup, that is ... ) 
Have a great 19th Birthday! 
Lots of love, 
The 3rd floor crew 
Sebastian, My pink taco is ready to be cracked as long as you have the salsa (bring a green turtle too-l LOVE green turtles!) 
MARGE 
Happy B-day, Jules! -KS 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
Loving young couple want to adopt baby. Mom a teacher will stay home full time. Call Laura/Brian collect 708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194 
!! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
Hobbes is still not 21, too bad 
some day you'll drink with us 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
I STILL NEED BC GA'S IN A BIG, BAD WAY. THE THREAT OF PHYSICAL DANGER IS IMMINENT IF I DO NOT COME THROUGH FOR MY "FRIENDS." 
Please save my life. Jenn x4059 
ANDY and BILL: Thanks for everything. We had a great time Sat. night!! By the way, whose sticks out more, and whose IS easier to grab? Ha ha hal 
BP'S TOP 10 FOR 10/10 
10) So, who's your date, anyway? 
9) Thanks to Tom, Dan & Pete for crashing & making it a true ND ratio 
B) So, who was better, Gina? 
7) OD & Colleen's floor hook 
6) Herbie's slide tackle/disrobing of Gina 
5) Who are those old men in the corner? 
4) Kevin's not really a social drinker, is he? 
3) CANNONBALL -comin' at ya 
2) Herbie at 4:30 "Where am I?" 
1) I've never seen guys so excited about drinking before! 
Thanks for a great night guys -you better ask us to your SYR'sl 
To ALL NDE Particpants: Thank you so much for helping me to see where He is -right here with us. You guys are awesome. Take it all with you, keep it alive. I love you. Love, Lake #23 
Mike McGarry­Here's that stupid message you've been wanting someone to send: Hi. 
CONGRATS TO THE WINNERS OF THE LYONS GOLF CLASSIC! 
•$1 
00 Grand Prize Winning Team of Joe Huston, David Colgan, Chris Garlitz, and Mike Nuss with the score of 5 under. 

•Jeff 
Hasselman for winning Longest Drive and a Parisi dinner for two. 

•Jesse 
Ewan for winning Closest to the Pin and a Papa John's pizza party. 

•Raffle 
Winners: 


Vince Casingal, Rob Eng, Chris Buckingham, Hegh-Jun Ju, Chris Ewart, and Ted Gilchrist. 
• Thanks to all golfers & caddies! • 
LISTENLISTENLISTENLISTEN ...... . ........................ LISTEN. TONIGHT AT MIDNIGHT ON BB.9FM UNTIL 2AM WE WILL GIVE AWAY GAME AVAILABLE TICKETS FOR THE REST OF THE HOME GAMES TO ANYONE WE THINK IS COOL.(not really) BUT WE WILL PLAY SOME SWEET MUSIC,,LISTEN 
Need a BYU studenet ticket? Call Anna at 284-5440 
Hey this is the end of classifieds. 


The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
page 11 
-


NFL SCHEDULE NFL STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
AMfRICAN CONFERENCESunday's Games 

WALES CONFERENCE Miaml21. Atlanta 17 Eaat Home Away AFC NFC Div Patrick Division
w L T Pet PF PA 
Kansas City 24. Philade\lhia 17 1.000 77 3-0-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 L GF Home Dlv
0 130 2-0-0 w T Pta GA AwayMiami 5 0
New York Giants 31, Phoenix 21 2-2-0 2-0-0 2-1-0 
Buffalo 4 0 .667 166 102 2-1-0 2-1-0 New Jersey 3 1 0 6 16 13 3-0-0 0-1-0 3-1-0
Cleveland 17, Pittsburgh 9 2 2 .600 78 2-1-0 1-1-0 2-2-0 1-0-0 1-1-0 Philadelphia 2 0 1 5 13 9 1-0-0 2-0-1San Francisco 24. New England 12 
lndnplis 3 0 54 1-0-1 NY Jets 1 
5 0 .167 84 123 1-1-0 0-4-0 1-2-0 0-3-0 1-1-0 NY Rangers 2 1 0 4 12 8 1-0-0 1-1-0 1-1-0 
Dallas 27, Seattle 0 N England 0 5 0 .000 46 119 0-3-0 0-2-0 0-3-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 Pittsburgh 1 0 2 4 13 9 1-0-1 0-0-1 1-0-1 Los Angeles Raiders 20, Buffalo 3 
Washington 1 3 0 2 12 17 0-2-0 1-1-0 0-3-0Central
Houston 38, Cincinnati 24 0-0-0 1-1-0 
Houston 4 1 0 .800 132 83 2-1-0 2-0-0 4-1-0 NY Islanders 0 2 1 1 9 14 0-0-0 0-2-1 0-2-0 
Indianapolis 6, New York Jets 3, OT 3-1-0 0-1-0 1-1-0
2-2-0

Pnsburgh 3 2 0 .600 91 74 1-0-0 
New Orleans 13, Los Angeles Rams 10 3 .400 99 128 1-2-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 0-2-0 0-1-0 Adama Dlvlalon OPEN DATE: Chicago, Detroit, Green Bay, 2-3-0 0-0-0 1-0-0
Cincnnatl 2 0 Cleveland 2 0 71 1-2-0 1-1-0 0 5 8 0-0-0
3 .400 78 Boston 2 1 12 2-0-1 2-0-0 Minnesota, San Diego, Tampa Bay. 
Quebec 2 0 0 4 14 6 1-0-0 1-0-0 2-0-0Weat 4 1 0 .800 70 75 3-0-0 1-1-0 4-0-0 0-1-0 Buffalo 2 1 0 4 17 9 1-1-0 1-0-0 2-1-0
3-0-0 
Denver

Monday's Game 2 .667 84 3-0-0 1-2-0 3-2-0 1-0-0 3-1-0 Montreal 1 2 3 13 0-0-1 1-2-0
Kan.City 4 0 140 1 17 1-2-0 
Denver at Washington, 9 p.m. .333 90 109 2-1-0 0-3-0 1-4-0 1-0-0 0-2-0 Cittawa 1 2 0 2 10 18 1-0-0 0-2-0 1-2-0
LA Raidrs 2 4 0 

4 .200 101 1-2-0 0-2-0 1-4-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 0 0 7 0-2-0
San Diego 1 0 46 Hartford 4 0 19 0-2-0 0-3-0 
Thursday, Oct. 15 116 0-2-0 1-3-0 1-4-0 0-1-0 0-2-0
1 0 .167 43Seattle 5Detroit at Minnesota, 7:30p.m. 

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division Sunday, Oct. 18 
w L T Pta GF GA Home Away DlvEaat
Green Bay at Cleveland, 1 p.m. AFC NFC Div
w L T Pet PF PA Home Away Detroit 2 1 0 4 12 10 0-0-0 2-1-0 0-0-0 
Kansas City at Dallas. 1 p.m. 3-0-0 1-1-0 1-0-0 3-1-0 Minnesota 2 1 0 4 2-0-0
3-1-0 Philadelphia at Washington, 1 p.m. 1-1-0 3-0-0 2-0-0
Dallas 4 1 0 .800 122 89 11 9 0-1-0 2-1-0 
4 1 0 .800 124 58 3-0-0 1-1-0 Chicago 1 1 1 3 10 11 0-0-1 1-1-0 1-1-1Phila
San Diego at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. 2 2 .500 71 77 2-0-0 0-2-0 0-0-0 2-2-0 0-2-0 Tampa Bay 1 1 3 12 9 1-0-0 0-1-1
Washingtn 0 1 1-1-1 
Tampa Bay at Chicago. 1 p.m. .400 110 113 1-2-0 1-1-0 0-1-0 2-2-0 1-1-0 St. Louis 1 2 0 2 8 12 1-1-0 0-1-0 
1-2-0
NYGiants 2 3 0

Atlanta at San Francisco, 4 p.m Phoenix 4 0 .200 89 140 1-1-0 0-3-0 0-0-0 1-4-0 1-3-0 Toronto 0 2 1 1 10 12 0-1-0 0-1-1 0-0-0
1

New England at Miami, 4 p.m. 
Central

Houston at Denver, 4 p.m. .800 129 98 2-0-0 2-1-0 1·0-0 3-1-0 3-1-0 Smythe Division
Minnesota 4 1 0

Los Angeles Raiders at Seattle, 4 p.m. 0-1-0 3-1-0 2-1-0
3 2 .600 115 83 2-1-0 1-1-0 Vancouver 2 0 0 4 10 6 1-0-0 1-0-0 2-0-0Tampa Bay 0
New Orteans at Phoenix, 4 p.m. 2-1-0 0-2-0 0-0-0 2-3-0 1-1-0 Calgary 2 1 0 4 14 2-1-0
Chicago 2 3 0 .400 108 131 9 0-0-0 1-1-0 
New York Giants at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. 3 0 74 104 2-1-0 0-2-0 2-0-0 0-3-0 0-2-0 Los Angeles 1 0 4 12 1-1-0 1-0-0
.400 2 14 2-0-0Green Bay 2
OPEN DATE: Buffalo and New York Jets. 0-0-0 1-4-0 1-2-0 
Detroit 1 4 0 .200 95 97 1-2-0 0-2-0 San Jose 1 1 0 2 7 9 1-1-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 
Winnipeg 1 2 0 2 10 11 1-0-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 Monday, Oct. 19 San Fran 5 1 0 .833 160 108 1-1-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 2-0-0 Edmonton 0 3 1 1 11 20 0-1-1 0·2-0 0-3-0 Cincinnati at Phtsburgh, late. 2-1-0 2-1-0 0-0-0 4-2-0 2-1-0 
Weal 

61
NewOrlns 4 2 0 .667 87 

4 0 .333 116 123 2-1-0 0-3-0 1-1-0 1-3-0 0-1-0 Saturday'• GameaAtlanta 2 
LA Rams 2 4 0 .333 83 116 2-0-0 0-4-0 2-2-0 0-2-0 0-2-0 New York Islanders 3, Boston 3, tie Buffalo 5, Hartford 2 Quebec 9, Ottawa 2 New Jersey 4, New York Rangers 2 Philade\lhla 4, Washington 2 Pittsburgh 3, Montreal 3, tie 
Calgary 3, Toronto 2 Minnesota 2, Tampa Bay 1 Call it the "Feed Them to the Wolves" school of Vancouver 5, Edmonton 2 thought. Young NFL quarterbacks are leaming, 11(_ 
Young quarterbacks



Fall Break Special 
Chicago 3, St. Louis 0 Detroit 6, San Jose 3 

standing next to the coach holding the clipboard, bt. 
Los Angeles 6, Winnipeg 3

Beat the Clock! 

trying to stand up to the pressure from on-rushing lin Sunday's Gamea 
Buffalo 8, Montreal 2 Toronto 3, Edmonton 3, tie Alt. Comp. Yards TD /NT Pet. comp. Tampa Bay 4, Chicago 4, tie 
Tues--Wed--Thurs 
Jeff George, fndJanapollS Colts 


5:00pm--7:30pm 

1991 485 292 2,910 10 12 60.2% 
Monday'a Game• 1992 33 15 234 2 3 Late Game Not Included Boston 6, Ottawa 3 

Price of large 
New Jersey 4, Washington 2 
Browntng Nagte. N. K<Jets . 

New York Rangers 6, Hartford 2 Alf. Comp. Yards TD !NT Pet. comp. Winnipeg at Vancouver, (n)

1 topping pizza 

1991 (Did not play) ----·-··--···--------·-·..---­
Tuesday's Games 1992 138 69 878 4 4 i•Mirl Buffalo at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 

is the time you call! 

Philadelphia at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Todd Marlnovich, LA. Raiders Tampa Bay at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Calgary vs. Minnesota at Saskatoon, Sask., 9:351 AIf. Camp. Yards TO /NT Pet_ comp. San Jose at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
1991 40 23 243 3 0 

Note: Games through 
Wednesday's Games 

1992 108. 55 772 2 5 October 5th. Cittawa at Hartford, 7:35p.m. New Jersey at New York Rangers, 7:35 p.m. Edmonton at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. 
APIEd De Gasero 
TRANSACTIONS ,t •. IHL STANDINGS 
• 

IL MES.SAGGERO ROMA-Released Rick
BASEBALL EASTERN CONFERENCE
Mahorn, forward.
National League Atlantic Dlvlalon
FOOTBALL
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Named Larry Duensing w L OTL Pta GF GA
Free Delivery 

National Football League
trainer. Atlanta 2 0 0 4 10 7
CINCINNATI BENGALS-Waived Mhchell Price defensive back. '
Eastern League Cleveland 2 0 0 4 9 4 ALBANY YANKEES-Named Cathy Loot Cincinnati 0 2 0 0 4 9
SOCCER
director of ticket sales and publications. Central Division 
National Professional Soccer League
BASKETBALL W L OTL Pta GF GA 
MILWAUKEE WAVE-Signed Victor Noguiera Indianapolis 2 0 0 4 12 7Italian League and Tony Pierce, goalies, to two-year contracts.




271~1177 
Kalamazoo 2 1 0 4 14 12 FonWayne o 2 o o 7 12 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division 
W L OTL Pta GF GA Kansas Ctty 1 1 0 2 9 9 Milwaukee 1 1 0 2 7 8 
Peoria 0 2 1 1 9 11 Pacific Division 
W L OTL Pta GF GA San Diego 2 0 0 4 10 3 SaHake City 1 1 0 2 9 9 
Phoenix 0 3 0 0 6 15

You won•t find it in the Observer. 
NOTE: Two points are awarded for a victory and one for an ovenlme or shootout loss. Saturday'a Games

,. Cleveland 5, Cincinnati 2 Indianapolis 5, Fon Wayne 4 Kansas City 5, Peoria 4, SO Atlanta 4, Milwaukee 2 


Utesley Kirkpatrick 
San Lake 7. Kalamazoo 4 San Oiego 5, Phoenix 1 Sunday'a Gamea No games scheduled

Clinton/Gore Campaign Coordinator 
Monday'a Game Kalamazoo at Salt Lake Tuesday'a Gamea No games scheduled 

for Notre Dame 
MLB PLAYOFFS , 
American League Wedneaday, Oct. 7 Oakland 4, Toronto 3 

TONIGHT•7:30 pm 
Thursday, Oct. 8 Toronto 3, Oakland 1 Saturday, Oct_ 10 Toronto 7, Oakland 5 Sunday, Oct. 11 

Call In YOUR Questions On The Air! 
Toronto 7, Oakland 6, 11 innings Monday, Oct. 12 Oakland 6, Toronto 2, Toronto leads series 3-2 Wednesday, Oct-14 
Oakland (Moore 0-1) at Toronto (Guzman 1-0). 3:07p.m. Thursday, Oct. 15 


239-6400 


Public Abrasion 
Oakland at Toronto, 8:37p.m., if necessary 

WVFI's Weekly Discussion of Campus Issues and Politics 
National League Tuesday, Oct. 6 Atlanta 5, Pittsburgh 1 Wednesday, Oct. 7

with Rich Delevan & Mike 11Whitey'' Griffin 
Atlanta 13, Pittsburgh 5 Friday, Oct. 11 Pittsburgh 3, Atlanta 2 Saturday, Oct. 10 Atlanta 6, Pittsburgh 4 Sunday, Oct. 11 Pittsburgh 7, Atlanta 1, Atlanta leads series 3-2 Tuesday, Oct. 13 Pittsburgh (Wakefield 1-0) at Atlanta (Giavine 



PUMP IT UP. Wflt=larn 
0-1 ). 8:37 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 14 Pittsburgh at Atlanta, 8:26 p.m .. nnecessary

===========640 
-------------------------. 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
... 
Simms might return to Giants in a month 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
(AP} ~ Phil Sftnms 
underwent arthroscopic 
surgery on llis'''right elbow 
Monday and the veteran New 
York Giants'''quarterhac:k 
might be able to return to the 
team in about a month. 
Coach Ray Handley. said 
doctors found no instability in 
Simms' ellidW dmng the· pro" 
cedure at 'I'h.il Hospital tor 
found' ·of medial. colateral}~gament. in the elbow bu,~ ••h~'~P,Q$e nQfto 
repair it;;;.\~uring . the 
procedure, Ha~?!~Y said. 
Warren did r~move several 
large bone chips that had ex­
isted before Simms sprained 
his elbow late iii the fourth 
quarter against the Raiders in 
Los Angeles on Oct. 4. 
There had beeJI<concern the injury might end Simms' ca­reer, one that was highlighted by an MVP performance in the Giants.' Super Bowl victory over Denver in January 1987. 


Simms had completed 83 of 137 passes for 912 yards, five touchdowns and three inter­ceptions before being hurt. He dressed for Sunday's game against Phoenix but spent most of his time talking with backup quarterback Dave Brown, just in case the rookie had to go in for Hostetler. 
Simms will probably be put on injured reserve and rookie quarterback Kent Graham will probably be activated from that list. The eighth· round draft choice has been sidelined with an elbow injury after the Giants second game. 
"I like the things that Graham has done with the offense,'' Handley said. "I would think it likely that I would pull Graham up." 
With Simms out Sunday, Hostetler led the Giants to a 31-21 victory over the Cardinals. He completed 9 of 17 for 142 yards and a touchdown and also ran eight times for 41 yards, including a 16~yard scramble fora TD. 
Hostetler did not know Simms' condition.. after prac-



Scholarships Available 
Call 1-800-423-5515 
For a recorded message giving details 
Shumate & Associates 
Captain Ron PG13 
5:00, 7:30, 9:30 
Hero PG13 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
The Last of the Mohicans R 
4:45, 7:15, 9:45 



Change in attitude, Marinovich help Raiders resurgence 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. (AP) -Bills 20-3. For at least one game, the Los "We're 2-4 and we can't afford Angeles Raiders were the to overlook anybody," said Raiders of old as they domi­Shell, whose team plays next at nated the Buffalo Bills. In the Seattle (1-5). "We're trying to process, they might have found keep our heads above water. their lost season. The players know where we 
However, coach Art Shell are." wasn't letting his players forget their overall status on Monday, Shell stressed the victories a day after they beat the two­over the New York Giants (13­time defending AFC champion 10) and Bills the last two 
Young quarterbacks 
Call it the "Feed Them to the Wolves" school of thoUght. Young NFL quarterbacks are learning, rK. standing next to the coach holding the clipboard, bL. trying to stand up to the pressure from on-rushing lin 
Jeff George, lndJ<.mapolls Colts Art. Camp. Yards TO /NT Pet. camp. 
1991 485 292 2,910 10 12 60.2% 
1992 33 15 234 2 3 .,..,.. 
Browning Nagle, N. v.: Jsts 
1991 1992  Art. (Di138  Camp. d notplay) s9  Yards ---···· 878  TO ·····4  /NT ········4  Pet. camp. --····------­i•Mfi:l  
1991 1992  Art. 40 108  Camp. 23 55  Yards 243 772  TO 3 2  /NT 0 5  Pet. camp.  Note: Games through October 5th.  

De Gasero 
Sundays were a result of work back Todd Marinovich, who of the players, not any change threw for two touchdowns and on the part ofthe coaches. was intercepted once. 
"Schemes are good, as I've "He's a young man and he's said before, but players have to going to improve every time make the plays to make the out," Shell said. "He had the scheme work," he said. "These interception early in the game, players played their behinds off, which I'm sure he'd like to have they made plays and made back. But he's improving and I things happen." look forward to his im· 
Shell had praise for quarter-provemenC 
~====================~ 
Study Abroad in Ireland! 
Saint Mary's College Information Meeting 



TONIGHT 

7:00p.m. 304 Haggar College Center, SMC Newcomers Welcome-Appications Distributed 
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING 

T
hink about supporting yourself for twenty-~ve, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever L1ce. Fortunately, you have one valuable asset in your favor. Time. 
Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. Time for \'Our monev to grow. 
But st~rting earl.; is key. Consider this: ifyou begin saving just $rr>o a month at age thirty, you can accumulate Srq:.1.;>~9* by the time you reach age sixty-five. Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside Sn7 a month to reach the same goal. 
At TIAA-CREF. we not only under­stand the value of starting early, we can help make it possible-with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portlolio of investment choices, and a record of' pcr·sonal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research are already enrolled in America's largest retirement system. Find out how easy it is to join them. Call toda\' and !cam how simple it is to put you;self through retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. 

Start planningyourfuture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1800 842-2888. 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it:'" 
*.·l.r...urrultq att tft/rr(.(/ ralt 11/,:1% ac-rJt!l'rl ,,, TIAA Rdtrtmatltlflnu 1 ( 11 •,~, 71Jt:r mit t~r u.~"a) .l'olr(v lc' .dlr,u' thtl'''"'·,·r am) l'/fl'ct ,,iiVflffii'Wirkt~~f. Ltru•a r'r higlur ratu .-vuM . ilrtldil('( l't'r.v chlftrrnl rau/J.•. CR r·F c'trtllfctl/1'.1 llf"l.' th.rtr/hulttl h_v T!tL-1-Cf/f.'F fttchi'II)Utl! tllld ln.rlt.llllional SaL't(•t,f. 


...---------------­
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 The Observer 



Saint Mary's drops two over weekend 
But Belles rank nationally in several statistical categories 

What is the Urban Plun2:em 
_program avai£a6£e to a[[ 9{'1J/S%C students 
_ 48 fwur immersion into inner-city [ife -1st week.)n January -in one of over 47 aifferent cities nationwitfe _ opportunity to e;q;erience contfition.s of poverty, 
injustice, anti apatfiy e;d.sting in our cities _ cfiance to survey avai[af}[e programs -participants receive 1 11ieo£ogy creait 
InfQrmation meeting October 13th {Tues.} Center fQr SQdal CQn~erns 6;3Q-7;QQpm 
What do you want to do with your Christmas money? 



Aspen/Snowmass, co. Jan 2, 10, 1993 
Sponsored by NO Ski Team 



$425°0 
Questions Call Chris Boone 

273,2958 
PROJECT 

By EILEEN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team experienced a bittersweet weekend as they played well in their two matches, but could not come up on top, losing to both Illinois Benedictine and Kalamazoo in the Belles' Trian­gular match this Saturday. 
Illinois Benedictine is cur­rently ranked first regionally. The Belles were ready for this team and therefore produced impressive results, defeating IBC in the first game of the match 15-9, but went on to lose the next three games 13-15, 12­15, 11-15. 
"We were in control of the match until the end, when it counts," explained Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "We were point for point until double digits." 
Saint Mary's has never beaten Illinois Benedictine in regular season play. In addition, IBC has a winning tradition and is used to taking control. 
"They took advantage of ev­erything we gave them," stated Schroeder-Biek. "We had cru­cial errors at crucial times." 
"We finally trusted one an­other against IBC," explained junior setter Michelle Martino. "I think we let up and therefore had a tough time getting those five extra points at the end." 
Stewart leads Oakland back to Toronto 

OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -The scowl on Dave Stewart's face, the growl of his fastball, told one story. Ruben Sierra's beaming salute rounding the bases on a homer told another. And Jerry Browne's dramatic leap from oblivion to playoff stardom told still one more. 
Weave them together and it is the tale of an Oakland Athletics team held together by bandages and tape and buckets of ice through a season of pain, clinging to life in the American League playoffs against the Toronto Blue Jays. 
The Athletics didn't get this far winning with smoke and mirrors. They did it with gritty men like Stewart, whose epi­taph if he ever gets in the Hall of Fame should read: Big-Game Pitcher. They did it with Sierra, playing better than the guy he replaced, Jose Canseco. And they did it with Browne, who hit baseball's Skid Row when Cleveland dumped him before he found a home in Oakland 

Schroeder-Biek believes that one of the main problems this season has been the Belles' mental game. 
"We're going to watch the game tonight prior to practice," explained Schroeder-Biek. "I believe this will confirm that we are one of the top teams, and that we can play at the national level. IBC really had to work hard to beat us. It was disap­pointing that we did not win." 
Against Kalamazoo, the Belles had a different problem. The Belles beat Kalamazoo earlier in the season, but they did not have the winning attitude that they had against Illinois Benedictine. 
"We did not go out as a whole team," stated Schroeder-Biek. "It seemed as though half wanted to win and the other half was not mentally there." 
"We were very slow," stated Martino. "We were ready for an improved Kalamazoo team, but we were surprised." 
In the two matches, senior captain Karen Lorton lead the team in kills with 4 7. Lorton recently received national recognition among Division III players. She is classified fourth nationally in hitting percentage (.4895) and second nationally in kills per game with a 4. 6 5 average. 
"Karen, being ranked so high him pitch again Thursday if the Ns win Game 6 on Wednesday. 
"Today when I got up I said, 'If the sun is not shining, I'm going to shine.' Anytime I can do something for my ballclub, I'll do it," said Stewart, whose high voice and easy demeanor off the field contrast so much with his "death stare" on the mound. "When I came to the "' park this morning, I did not1want this to be the last game 

Dave Stewart 
and played virtually every­where as the supreme utility man. 
"I expected to do whatever it took to win the ballgame," Stewart said after doing just that over nine grueling innings to beat the Blue Jays 6-2 Mon­day and send the series back to Toronto with the Ns down three games to two. 
It was a complete-game per­formance that the A's desper­ately needed, their bullpen worn out and demoralized after the Game 4 bombing that vic­timized even ace reliever Den­nis Eckersley. 
"Stew had the eye of the tiger, and when he has the eye of the tiger, you just can't beat him," said manager Tony La Russa, who let Stewart finish only two games during the regular season and is prepared to let 
Happy 2 1 51 Birthday Maureen Titler!!! 

The wait wasn't too bad, was it? 
Love, Your Roomies, Friends, & Admirers 
and go home. I wanted more." 
Stewart simply refused to let his season, maybe his Oakland career, end with a loss. He'll be a free agent at the end of the year, and he doesn't know, at 35 and after a 12-10 season, if the A's will ask him back for the two more years he wants to play. 
"Loyalty has already gone out the window. If there was loy­alty, I would probably be signed by now," Stewart said, adding that he'll sign with anyone who will give him a two-year deal. 
Browne didn't know where he'd spend this summer after Cleveland cut him, but he has a pretty good idea he'll be back with the Athletics next spring. He did more than just hit four singles in four at-bats Monday as a replacement at third for Carney Lansford. Browne played just about everywhere for La Russa, starting 19 games at second base, 38 at third and 37 in the outfield. 
in both attack categories says she's top caliber," praised Schroeder-Biek. Because of her stats, I think she should make All-Region and then definitely has a chance at All-American." 
Martino, who really sent IBC scrambling, chipped in 12 kills and 43 digs. In addition, junior Kim Branstetter lead the team with 51 digs, while junior Leah Lemke contributed 25 digs while only playing back row. 
"Leah played very well," ex­plained Schroeder-Biek. "At one time she returned five shots right in a row. It was if she was doing a pit drill. I'm proud of her and the team," she concluded. 
The Belles rank among the top ten Division III schools in 
..
several statistical categories. National recognition was one of the main goals set by the Belles for this season. They are na­tionally ranked in three cate­gories: second in hitting per­centage (.310); ninth in kills/game (12.12); and fourth in digs/game (22.44). 
"As a team, it shows we are capable of playing at the na­tional level," stated Schroeder­Biek. "This boosts up the team. We've been working on building this program; it shows how far the team has come." 

A Ronald E. McNair Post Baccalaureate Achievement Project (a TRIO project) for 
First Generation, Low income Students and/or Students from Under-represented Groups 
Informational  Meeting :  Tues., Oct. 13,  
7:00  PM,  Cushing  (Engineering)  
Auditorium  


page 14 The Observer Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Saint Mary's loses once, ties another 
Soccer squad plays tough against talented opposition 
the game's only first-half goal bruised shin. Meanwhile,
By NICOLE MCGRATH 

as the Belles' defense held the sophomore Molly Lawrence
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Lady Scots scoreless. But bruised her tailbone. Both are 
They say the third time's the charm, but the Saint Mary's soccer team tied Wooster, 1-1, for the third year in a row, and lost to Denison, 1-0, last week­end in Ohio. 
The two teams were the toughest the Belles have come up against all season, according to Coach Tom VanMeter. 
"The thing is, we had less of a chance to score because both teams were so good," said VanMeter. 

.. 
For instance, Saint Mary's and Wooster took a total of four shots on goal during the whole game. Both teams' defenses were consistent in keeping the ball away from the goal box, 
according to forward Megan Dalsaso. 
"We were both very physical and our defense kept us in the game," said Dalsaso. 
Junior Molly O'Connell scored Wooster fired up for the second half as players' performances, from both teams, evened out. 

That even play spilled into two overtimes but the game finished tied. 
"We wanted to beat them so bad," said Dalsaso. 
Since Wooster had defeated regionally-ranked Kalamazoo while the Belles lost last week to that team, a win over the Lady Scots could have cast them in a favorable post-tour­nament light. 
But the tie, followed by a loss to Denison College, eliminated those chances. 
"I doubt we are going. Deni­son sealed our fate, " said VanMeter. 
The game against Denison not only ended in a loss, but knocked out two Saint Mary's players. Junior Molly O'Connell twisted her ankle and had a nagging injuries that are ex­pected to heal over break, ac­cording to VanMeter. 
"Denison was difficult be­cause we were so beat up from Wooster," said Dalsaso. 
The only goal of the game was scored in the second half on a defensive mishap. 
"I think it was more of a mental breakdown because we didn't read it well," said Van­Meter. 
With six minutes left, the Belles had a chance to score but couldn't. 
"I had one shot that was in the goal but the keeper made an awesome save," said Dal­saso . 
Saint Mary's has three games left and for VanMeter, he would like to finish with ten victories. 
"Right now, we are 7-3-1 but we need to take it one game at a time,"said VanMeter. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Saint Mary's Megan Dalsaso (right) tries to sneak a pass past a defender to teammate Maura Sullivan. 




Irish 
continued from page 16 
year, are all expected to contribute to the team. 
"I think that (the deeper bench) will allow us to utilize our talent better," MacLeod ex­plained. 
While in the backcourt, 


Soccer 
continued from page 16 
an assist from Keith Carlson with less than three minutes remaining in the game. The win is a major step in the building process for the youthful Irish squad, but Berticelli is trying to keep it in perspective. 
"It's no bigger than any other win," he said. "We went in there expecting to win and we did, but it is definitely a step in the right direction." 

MacLeod is hoping for some help from freshmen ·nyan Hoover and Keith Kurowski. 
"They are both good players, and they should be of some help to the team. How much they will help I don't know yet," MacLeod said. 
Despite the glaring inexperi­ence on the Irish roster, MacLeod believes Notre Dame 
The Irish were one man short for the final 28:25 after a red will be ahead of last year's team when they take the practice floor for the first time on November 1. 
"We will be ahead in the man-to-man and in our offense. The guys know what to expect," MacLeod said. "We have some carry over. We lost four players, not eight. So there is some nucleus returning." 
card was issued to sophomore defender Chris Dean. 

 
Wednesday, Ocll4, 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium The National Touring Production Saint Mary's community (w/ld) $6 ND students/guests$12  Friday-Sunday, Nov. 13-15 Saint Mary's presents AN EVENING OF OPERA AND DANCE Tickets $6/$5  
MOREAU GALLERIES, Brinsley Tyrrell, sculpture; Lilian Tyrrell, tapestries; Oct 9-Nov. 6. Admission free. COMING ATTRACTIONS... ACDA Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir, Oct 31... The Statesmen, Nov. 6 ... The Ink Spots, Nov. 21.  
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's . tit nbox office. located In O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Mary's Co e~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME•INDIANA  

··13fn127 · available for ue1Josus. If you have 

Stop Censorship 
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees Americans the right to a free press. Defend it. 
THE VIKING IS BACK! 
TILLYKKE PA F0DSELSDAGEN 

HAPPY 2PI LOVE, MOM, DAD, & JESSICA PINKUS & JELLYBEAN 
Ill 


FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. For more information contact: 

Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment 
P.O. Box 6057 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903 
1-800-247-8590 

Mayo Foundation is an affirmdtive action and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke-free institution. 
L--------------------------------------------~ 


-------~ ~~­
---------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------­

%e Observer wishes you {uc/(and peace during Midterm Wee~ 



Today 

Tuesday,••October 13, 1992 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
LOOK. AI \\\ESE \JN.':PL'JE\) 


\r I A~SW£:R£D T\.\t.St:, If 
PR!:JBLEMS. li£.Rt.'5 A 

v.IOOLD '(\Ll 11-\t. S\JSI'E~St:. 
t{\JMBER lf\1 MORTAl CoMBAI 

IT WOJLD R£S;)\..'JE 1\-\E 
W\11\ At\011\ER. Ol'IE Or 

C~R\Cf AI>ID T\JRN. 
Tl-\EM \5 ~~~G To 6£1 

INTR\GUI~G PO'S'S\\3\l\n'~.'S 
S~B\RACTED, 9UT W~i~I-\OW? 

INTO l.bR\1>\G-OC rl\c.\5. 
W\-\1\T WILL 131:. LEIT or 1-1\M? 

I /vtz_ I 
~ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
....,-+.,..+.--+=-~ ..;.+.=+::~+=-1 
57 Commotion 59 Slippery ones 61 Begets 63 "Believe-­
Not" &4 Low capital 66 Food-container 
info 67 Slender candle 68 Prepare for 
publication 69 Scads 70 Milwaukee's 
Bradley Center, e.g. 71 Sandra and Ruby 
DOWN 
1 Show roster 21nquired 3 Any queen of 
France 4 Releases conditionally 

6 Takes a load off  28 Cantina choice  48 Nicaraguan's  
7 React derisively  30 Camper's cover  nap  56 Bottled spirit  
8 Motto  31 "Born Free" star  so Song or gab  57 Hue  
9 John Wayne  32 ~Raton, Fla.  ending  58 Kruger of films  
film of 1945  33 Corn portions  52 Light-opera  60 Observed  
10 Pittsburgh pro  34 Reprove  composer  62NCO's  
11 Court action  36 Rubber-stamps  53 Incline  65 Madrid Mrs.  
12 Presently  37 Do a clerk's job  
13 Numerous 18 Fat-free 24 Farm warehouse  40 Mediocre 41 "On-Toes" 44 Sends out of the country  Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute).  

JAY HOSLER 

BILL WATTERSON 
I I'\EV£R REI\I..t{ ~0\,k;\-\\ 

ABCJ.Ji 1\\1:: r'----1 
L\ \£R.AR'{ 
Q\J Allnt.s 
OF Ml\~. 
••page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"Fools! They made me into a free-range chicken •.• and man, I never looked back." 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
Toda~'s Sllecial: 
3 Medium Cheese Pizzas 
Call Now 
ND 271..0300 SMC 289..0033 
MENU  
Notre Dame Roast Turkey Irish Fried Flounder Egg Foo Young  Saint Mary's Pasta Bar Southwest Bar Carved Prime Rib  

LECTURES 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m. Lecture: "Bold Initiatives and Unintended Consequences: The Brazilian Motor Vehicles and Informatics Industries," Caren Addis and Antonio Botelho. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
6 p.m. "A Celebration· 1492 New World: 1992 One World," Lecture: "Rediscovering Columbus," Jerry McElroy. North Lounge, Regina Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Office of Campus Ministry, Saint Mary's College. Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Fall Lecture Series Racism: Women's Voices, "I Know I'm Liberated. How Come I Don't Feel Free?" Eleanor Fails, Dusquene University. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 8 p.m. Play: "The Christopher Columbus Follies: An Eco· Cabaret," The Underground Railway Theater, a national touring company. Washington Hall. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, Student Union Board, Kellogg Institute, Student Government. and the Multicultural Executive Council. 9:15p.m. Film: "Chinatown." Annenberg Auditorium. 









$995 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any 
other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our 
drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not 
penalized for late deliveries. 
© 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Nag 
5 Syrian head 10 Bridge coup 14 On a cruise 15 Evans or Hunt 16 Sinatra's 
youngest 17 Order for a 
butcher 19 Black, to Blake 20 Domingo, e.g. 21 Utah lily 22 "-..--meeny 
23 Where to buy franks 25 Give the facts again 27 Send forth 
29 "--Fideles" 
32 Gardeners' creations 35 Cambodian 
neighbor 38 Thin porridge 39 Dory implement 40 Type of salmon 42 Election 
winners 43 Belief 45 Sonja Henie's 
hometown 
46"~girl!" 
47 Evaluate 49 Entertainer 
Lorna~ 
51 Victor's loot 54 Change the prices 

---. 
-
Sports 
... 
page 16 

MIKE 
SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
There is more than luck behind the Hurricanes' success 
Miami 8, Arizona 7. 
"Miami is so lucky," Joe Hurricane 
Hater whines. 
Miami 19, Florida State 16. 
"I don't believe the 'Canes lucked out 
again," Joe whines even harder. 
Miami 17, Penn State 14 . 
"This is incredible. They're 
eventually going to lose. No team can 
stay this lucky for an entire season," 
Joe, now on the verge tears, whines. 
The past three weeks the Miami Hur­
ricanes have won two games because 
their opponent's kicker missed a field 
goal with less than a minute to play, 
and last Saturday, as underdogs, beat 
Penn State on an interception return 
for a touchdown. 
Hurricane-haters, which would in­
clude the majority of the Notre Dame 
campus, cry and complain about how 
lucky the 'Canes have gotten. 
Maybe Miami has gotten a few good 
breaks, but they have also had their 
share of bad luck this season. First, 
Hurricane Andrew destroyed the 
team's practice facilities before the sea­
son started. Then. against Arizona, 
Hurricanes preseason All-American 
nose tackle Rusty Medearis blew out 
his knee and was lost for the year. 
However, Miami simply kept on win­
ning. They came back, from what 
Dennis Erickson admitted was a less 
than stellar performance against the 
Wildcats, to beat two top-ten teams 
without Medearis, their top defensive 
player. 
The 'Canes simply have a knack for 
doing what it takes to win. Not only 
have they won 45 straight at home, but 
they have also won 38 of their last 42 
away from the Orange Bowl. 
There has to be more than luck in­
volved for a team to win over 95 per­
cent of its last 87 games. 
The 'Canes have developed their own 
mystique-one of tough-talk and 
intimidation. Players and fans are 
scared to visit the Orange Bowl. This 
"mystique" not only hurts other teams, 
but it also seems to motivate Miami 
and its defense, which has been the 
team's backbone this season. 
Unlike past Miami squads, there is no 
more high-powered Hurricane offense. 
The well-balanced attack has become 
an offense that lives by Gino Toretta's 
arm. The Miami rushing game was in­
visible until Saturday's win over Penn 
State. 
The 1992 Hurricanes have done it 
almost completely with defense. Ask 
Arizona, who lost the game on a safety. 
Ask Penn State's John Sacca, who was 
forced into a game-deciding intercep­
tion by the Miami pass rush. In these 
two games, the defense not only shut 
down the opposition, it has provided 
the margin of victory. 
Though the Hurricanes' off-the-field 
behavior has a lot to be desired, their 
record on the field speaks for itself. 
No matter what the circumstances, 
the Hurricanes always find a way to 
keep on winning. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Tuesday, October 13, 1992 



Macleod: Challenge is different this year 
• 
•sMC 
soccer loses, ties see page 14 

•Belles' 
volleyball bittersweet see page 13 

•stewart 
drives A's back to Toronto see page 12 


handed No. 24 Evansville their first Midwestern Collegiate Conference loss since 1989, but lost a key
player in the process. 
Sophomore Tont Richardson went down with a broken !eg t~at i~ expected to 
keep him sidelined for the rest of the season, leaving the 
By JASON KELLY Irish with a big hole to fill in Sports Writer the midfield. 
"Anytime you lose a player When luck isn't on your of Tout's caliber, it is a major side, even the best nights can setback," Irish coach Mike 
turn sour. Berticelli said. "It is That was the case for the something the team will have Notre Dame men's soccer 
to overcome, but our main 
concern is that he is able to
,...-.,...--.,..,..----:----.--------,team this weekend, as they 
proved every month, and I would like to see this team get better as we go along. 
"I don't think there's any doubt that we will recall what happened last year. The play­ers know that the hard work and discipline will pay off." 
The one holdover in the starting lineup is sophomore small forward Billy Taylor. The rest of the starting lineup has very little experience, something that MacLeod believes will make the Irish an "unknown quantity." 
The highest expectations are of senior forward Monty Williams, who has not played on the collegiate level in two years. Junior Joe Ross is going to be given a chance to win the starting center position. 
The projected starting backcourt is sophomore Lamarr Justice at the point and junior Brooks Boyer playing in the two-guard spot. 
MacLeod, however, said that this lineup is not set in stone and things could change before the season-opener. 
One major change that is certain at this point is that the Irish bench will see a lot more playing time. 
Up front, Jon Ross, Carl Cozen, Nathion Gilmore and Malik Russell, who will not see any time at guard this 
see IRISH/page 14 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Last year Notre Dame bas­ketball coach John MacLeod had to start from scratch, creating a new Irish mix with ingredients left over from the Digger Phelps era. 
This season, with the loss of four starters, many would think the second-year coach would face a similar challenge. 
But MacLeod feels that the growth the team underwent last season and the experience it has with his system will help with its quick development. 
"We are rebuilding the 
John Macleod 
starting lineup," MacLeod said. "We have a lot of young players who are very eager, but have not had a lot of playing experience. 
"I think last year's team im-


Volleyball to face Bowling Green 



Falcons 15th in Midwest 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
When Bowling Green State and Notre Dame met in volleyball last year, the Irish won in three games. With Bowling Green's top two players gone from that team, one might expect a cake walk for Notre Dame in tonight's 
7:30 p.m. match at the Joyce ACC. Irish head coach Debbie Brown, however, does not. 

"Bowling Green is a much different team than they were last year," Brown explained. "They have definitely changed their strengths. They were a middle-dominated team, but now they will look to the out­side. The things which brought us success against them last year will not work this year." 
Leading the transition to the outside game for the Falcons are left-side hitters Rolli Costein and Angellette Love. Costein leads the team in kills and digs, while Love is second in both categories. Setter Carey Amos will put the ball up for the Falcons' big hitters. Brown wants her players to concentrate on defending the trifecta of seniors. 

"They have strong left side hitters, and the setter is expe­rienced and does a very good job," Brown said. "The success of Bowling Green will depend on those three players." 
Despite the big changes from last year, that trio has led Bowling Green to another 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Irish blockers stop a spike by Florida State. Notre Dame faces Bowling Green tonight at the JACC. 
feels the Irish will need a strong performance to end that string. 
"They are a real good team, and they'll play excellent de­fense," Brown said of her team's rival. "Obviously, they'll have some confidence after winning ten games in a row. They outplayed us in a spring scrimmage, so this will be a good test for us to try to turn that around." 
The Irish have had only one day of practice to prepare for Bowling Green after facing formidable competition in this weekend's Golden Dome Invi­tational. Since Notre Dame has faced three MAC opponents, the Irish coaches anticipate facing a well­prepared team tonight. But Brown doesn't expect that to be a decided advantage for the Falcons. 
"We feel like there are some things we can do against them," Brown said. "We've looked at areas that we can take advantage of. The important thing is that we execute, and I have every reason to believe we will." 
successful season. After going 29-5 and capturing the Mid-American Conference title a year ago, the team is 14-3 and atop its league once again. The Falcons are ranked 15th in the NCAA Mid­west regional poll. By comparison, Notre Dame is 15-3 and ranked 25th in the national coaches' poll and fourth in the regional list. 
Bowling Green can expect its status to improve in today's updated polls, since the Falcons fly into town clutching a ten-game winning streak in their talons. Brown 


Men's soccer aces Evansville, 1-0 


Richardson lost for remaining games with broken leg 
"It involves moving players around and maybe trying a different system, so we're go­ing to be working with some different combinations." 
Whatever combination they used Sunday worked to perfection, as they toppled a tough Evansville squad. In their last 17 conference games, the Purple Aces are 15-1-1, with both the loss and the tie coming at the hands of the Irish. 
Sunday's game went down to the wire. Tim Oates provided the winning margin for Notre Dame, scoring off 
see SOCCER/page 14 


recover fully and continue his career." 
Richardson's injury gives the Irish some personnel questions as they prepare for a fall break trip to face Kentucky and Vanderbilt. 
"It's not like football, where you can just put in a second­stringer," Berticelli explained. 




