-----------~~ 

MONDAY , MARCH 2, 1992
VOL XX 
• THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Denise Martin 
1 he Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Down on the corner 
Flanner junior Luke Conway sits outside on the fieldhouse cornerstone enjoying the recent warm 
weather that has swept through South Bend. 
Aziz to attend U.N. to discuss weapons 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) -Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said he would head a dele­~;ation to the United Nations that will explain Baghdad's ef­forts to implement Security Council resolutions demanding that Iraq eliminate its mass de­struction weapons. 
• 
Saudi politics I page 4 

• 
US Navy/ page 4 


l'he move appeared to be aimed at averting a potentially serious confrontation with the United Nations over Saddam Hussein's latest defiance of Security Council resolutions. 
Aziz. speaking on Iraq's state­run television, did not say when the delegation would arrive in New York. 
The development came as 
U.N. pressure on Iraq mounted amid fresh allegations that Baghdad was hindering U.N. inspectors assigned to locate and eliminate Iraq's chemical, biological and nuclear weapons programs as well as long-range missiles. 
A U.N. team assigned to de­stroy Iraqi missile production equipment reported Saturday that it was unable to perform its mission because of obstacles caused by the Iraqis. 
The official Iraqi News Agency said Sunday that the government decided to send the delegation including Aziz in re­sponse to a Feb. 22 statement by the Security Council accusing Iraq of failing to comply with its Gulf War cease­fire resolution. 
The cease-fire resolution states that U.N. economic sane­tions imposed after the August 1990 invasion of Kuwait will remain in force until Iraq com­plies with the disarmament provisions. 
Aziz's announcement followed an earlier INA report that Saddam Hussein had met Saturday with military and government leaders to discuss the latest developments. 
INA, monitored in Nicosia, quoted Aziz as saying that Iraq has carried out all its commit­ments under the cease-fire res­olution, which obliges it to co­operate with U.N. inspectors in getting rid of its weapons of mass destruction. 
But Aziz added that "the U.N. inspection teams always cre­ated things that were far from the truth, under open and clear pressure from America," ac­cording to INA. · The refusal by Saddam's gov­ernment to begin scrapping Scud missile manufacturing fa­cilities by Friday drew a strong warning from the Security Council that continued defiance would bring "serious conse­quences." 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas R. Pickering, president of the IS­nation council for February, refused to rule out a military strike to force compliance. 
Aziz said the Iraqi foreign ministry has already stated that Iraq would allow the Security Council to make sure that it was not producing any banned weapons, "provided this be done without provocation and without infringement of Iraq's 


NBC contract to provide money for fellowships 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame will commit $1 million a year for the next five years from the proceeds of its televi­sion contract with NBC to en­dow doctoral fellowships in its graduate school, according to Father William Beauchamp, ex­ecutive vice president at Notre Dame. 
"All the extra money over and above what (Notre Dame) would normally get for TV if we did not have the NBC contract will be used for fellowships for graduate students and scholar­ships for undergraduates," Beauchamp said. 
The money will be put lnto an endowment for the graduate school and the interest earned from that will go toward fel­lowships for qualified students, Beauchamp explained. 
"In order to recruit top-notch graduate students, we must provide financial aid for them to be able to attend Notre Dame," Beauchamp said. 
More than half the graduate students at the University re-



Speaking out 
Judith Johns, 'CEO of Howard Brown Memorial Clinic and Saint Mary's graduate of '66, spoke to parents and students during Saint Mary's Sophomore Parents Weekend. 

Father Beauchamp 

ceive financial aid, according to Beauchamp. 
Through its four divisions, humanities, social sciences, science and engineering, the graduate school offers 36 mas­ter's and 23 doctoral degrees. Where the money will go and who will receive the fellowships will be decided by the graduate school, according to Beauchamp. 
Beauchamp also stated that the undergraduate school will receive a "multiple amount" of the money that the graduate school is receiving from the NBC contract. Although Beauchamp is not sure at the time how much this "amount" will be, he said it will go toward an endowment for scholarships for undergraduate students. 


IRA claims responsibility for bombs 
LONDON (AP) -Police on Sunday defused an IRA bomb at a train station, the third dis­covered in this capital in 48 hours. Two other devices planted by the outlawed group exploded on Friday and Saturday, injuring 29 people. 
The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility Sunday for planting all the bombs as it continued its campaign to end British rule in Northern Ireland. 
In a statement from Belfast, the IRA said it wanted to force the issue onto the political agenda ahead of the election, which must be held by July, and vowed to continue the campaign of violence on the British mainland before the election. 
But Home Secretary Kenneth Baker, the Cabinet minister re­sponsible for law and order, maintained that the IRA would not disrupt the electoral pro­cess. 
"An election is a time when there is a clash of ideas, of policies and of arguments. It has nothing to do with bombs and bullets," Baker told London Weekend Television News. 
Earlier Sunday, a bomb found in· a north London train station was defused hours before thou­sands of fans were expected to arrive for a soccer match, a Scotland Yard spokesman said. 
The bomb was spotted by a British citizen at 9:20 a.m. at British Rail's White Hart Lane station. A telephone warning was received about an hour later, police said. 

page 2 The Observer Monday, March 2, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Budget flights offer more than .economy 
Spring break is the time for fun and heavy se­dation in the sun. It's coming soon and most look forward to it, unless they're scheduled for dental surgery. 

If you're going By Steve 
somewhere, there's likely Duenes 
a rowboat special ready to Editorial 
whisk you off into the fun Cartoonist 
filled realm of air travel________ 
Now air travel is great, but those frugal-fare 
deals can sometimes turn into quite an extrava­
ganza. You know, those bottom-of-the-sofa deals 
that take you and some of your luggage to 
Cancun and back for $59.95. They sit you in 
those seats designed for pygmies and leave you 
zealously thinking of some way to kill time. 
Well, a good diversion you can count on to take eare of at least two hours is the movie. On my last low budget excursion, the in-flight selection was Mickey Rourkes' critically acclaimed "Wild Orchid," which after editing took care of about twenty minutes. 
With so much time on my hands, I thought it was a lovely time for a chat with my neighbor, and I was fortunate enough to have been seated next to a man with breath like a collie. I didn't recall them serving braunschweiger cheese, but I thought for sure those oxygen masks would drop down and allow me to resume breathing normally. I tried to be subtle in turning the other way, but I think he grew tired of conversing with the back of my head. 
Once all the green smoke cleared from my section of the cabin, I figured I'd just let the time drift away by reclining back and taking in some of their musical delights. It was quite a treat considering my selections ranged from KISS greatest hits to Wagner star studio. 
I decided on, "I Got You Babe , " since Sonny Bono will be getting my vote in California's next gubernatorial race. I think the song actually sounds better when played through a stereo system that blows a fine mixture of both music and cold wind into your ears. 
Surprisingly, nothing builds an appetite more than sitting uncomfortably for long periods o time. Many people see those peanut bags as manna from heaven, although I'm not convinced. I see airline food less as cuisine and more as a way of rationalizing those little white saeks in the storage pocket in front of you. 
My entree included a plethora of tasty treats like eggs bathed in a frothy broth plus sausage with warts. Anyway you look at this meal, it de­served to be taken out to the yard and shot. 
Another fear-instilling portion of the flight has something to do with turbulence. This is one of those buzzwords that pilots use and passengers are confused about. I always assumed it meant to get ready to catch your neighbor's drink before it drops in your lap, but pilots I've spoken to tell me its their way o warming up the steering yoke in preparation for a barrel roll. 
Enjoy your break and remember to keep your seatbacks, tray tables, and knees locked because your neighbor has been drinking, and I sense turbulence. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author's and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's Staff 

Production News 
Lisa Bourdon Meredith McCullough Kristin Costello Julie Barrett 

VIewpoint Sports 
J. Brian Stalter Rich Szabo Jason Thomas Jason Kelly 
Graphics Illustrations 
Beth Duane Dave Devine 
Business Accent 
Andy Runkle Paige Smoron Francisco Lozano Rich Riley 
Lab Tech 
Macy Hueckel Garr Schwartz 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

PrBSSur9 
H L ~''''"~ ~ !Til EZJ m
" 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
:,:.:;: 
·::::::: 




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Police Raid Largest Underworld S~ndicate As New Law Takes Effect 
• OKVD=Some 2,500 police raided offices of Japan's largest underworld syndicate on Sunday, the day a wide-ranging anti-gangster law took effect. An official of the Osaka state police said 65 people were arrested during the raids on 109 locations connected with the 30,000-member Yamaguchi-gumi gang. The charges included blackmail, infliction of bodily injury, drug smuggling and violation of weapons control laws, he said. The tough new law that took effect Sunday is expected to enable police to crack down harder on the nation's estimated 87,000 gangsters or "yakuza." Before the law took effect, the yakuza operated openly from well-marked o~ces, and often wore gang insignia and carried busl..Qess cards linked to their organizations. They didn't admit to illegal activities. But the National Police Agency estimates that the 3,000 gangs earned about $10.5 billion annually, mostly from extortion and the drug and sex trades. 

NATIONAL 
•WASHINGT N-People are suing cities more than ever. A 67-year-old woman is suing Brownsville, Tenn., for $300,000 because she says she got banged up tripping over an uneven sidewalk. The refusal of Dayton, Ohio, to approve a landfill and recycling center provoked a lawsuit from the disappointed company and a landowner. They say their constitutional rights were 

OF INTEREST 
•off-campus students can vote today for off-campus co-presidents from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Concourse and from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. at the information desk in LaFortune Student Center. Elections will not be held in the dining halls as was previously reported. 
•An effective interviewing workshop will be held this 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ February 28 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX -9­203,139,300 228.21 v .54 COMPOSITE 412.70 • 1.16 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,267.67 -.!} 1.78 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {} $ 4.20 to $353.90/oz. 
SILVER tt 4.2¢ to $4.103/oz. 


fORECAST: 
Mostly sunny today with near-record high in the low 60s. Low near 40 . 
TEMPERATURES: 
H L 
63 37 
71 39 Austin 75 48 Barcelona 57 45 Baton Rouge 79 62 Bismarck 70 27 Boise 66 40 Boston 40 10 Columbia, S.C. 73 34 Columbus 61 28 Denver 65 36 Des Moines 77 48 Harrisburg 51 33 Helena 60 29 Helsinki 37 30 Honolulu 84 68 Indianapolis 66 29 Juneau 46 31 Lincoln 56 46 Madison 38 29 Mpls-St. Paul 58 35 Nashville 68 31 Sacramento 66 51 Salt Lake City 63 44 South Bend 62 44 Tallahas699 64 54 Topeka 82 46 Washington, D.C. 62 26

0 -l) ~ u 
ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY 
·.;:·:·: 

violated. Philadelphia may stare into the abyss of bankruptcy, but that's no deterrent to filers of 4,200 lawsuits pending against the destitute city. This month, a state appeals court upheld a $4.3 million jury award against New York City and its transit system for a 29­year-old mugger left paralyzed when a police officer shot him. The mugger was fleecing an elderly man in a subway. Until fairly recently, cities couldn't be held accountable for axle-bending potholes, sickeningly inept public hospitals or brutal police. But after about 1960, states began passing laws that let people take cities to court. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme Court said the Civil Rights Act applies to government bodies as well. 
Entire student newspaper staff fired 
•LA CROSSE, Wis.-A Roman Catholic college fired the 33-member staff of its student newspaper after the biweekly ran parodies about using condoms. Viterbo College President William Medland said the Lumen newspaper "shocked the sensibilities of many students, faculty, staff and administrators." Medland said he objected to the content of parodies about condoms, including a suggestion people wear them on their heads to ward off the flu. "I am really disappointed," said the newspaper's editor, Stephanie Klitzkie, who is a Methodist. "When I first came to school here, I was concerned about not being Catholic but I was told that beliefs were not imposed." Medland said the new rules forbid the newspaper from publishing obscenities and pornography, or showing disrespect for the school's Roman Catholic character. 
evening in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. The workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked during an interview. The workshop is open to students of any major. 
•JPW pictures can be ordered Monday and Tuesday in Room 108 of LaFortune. Pictures can be ordered at this time only. For more information call Marianne at 283­4174. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1793: The first president of the Republic of Texas, Sam Houston, was born near Lexington, Va. 

• 
In 1899: Congress established Mount Rainier National Park. 

•In 
1917: 75 years ago, Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship. 

• 
In 1923: Time magazine made its debut. 

•In 
1977: The U.S. House of Representatives adopted a strict code of ethics that limited outside earnings and required detailed financial disclosures by its members. 

• 
In 1990: More than 6,000 drivers went on strike against Greyhound Lines Inc. (The company, declaring an impasse in negotiations, fired the strikers.) 


Monday, March 2, 1992 1he Observer page 3 


Referendum campaign launched in South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -President F. W. de Klerk begins a nationwide tour Monday to seek the support of whites for a crucial vote on whether to continue his policy of dismantling apartheid. 
De Klerk has promised to re­sign if he loses the March 17 whites-only referendum. In that case, the government says, it would hold a whites-only gen­eral election which probably would be won by the pro­apartheid Conservative Party. 
Opinion polls, which cannot be published during the refer­endum because they may influ­ence voters, indicated last week that de Klerk would win. 
Many whites are worried about de Klerk's reforms, blaming them for political vio­lence and soaring crime. The economy is in serious trouble and a drought is ruining white farmers. 
A Conservative victory could push South Africa into political chaos, end de Klerk's reforms and trigger international sanc­tions against the country. 
The government, backed by funding from large corpora­tions, is mounting an extensive referendum campaign. Newspapers were filled Sunday with full-page ads urging whites to back de Klerk, who will spend two weeks criss­crossing the country to seek support. 
The referendum will ask: "Do you support continuation of the reform process which the state president began on Feb.2, 1990, and which is aimed at a new constitution through nego­tiation?" 


Club Column 
MARCH 2, 1992 
l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate dubs to check their mailboxes on the second Aoor of Lafortune. 
2) The Last Day to access dub funds is April 10,1992. 
3) Attention All Clubs: Registration packets are due on March 4. Clubs must register with the CCC in order to be recognized by the University each year. No late packets will be accepted! 
4) The Black Cultural Arts Council holds office hours on: Mondays and Wednesdays, 2:15-4:30, Tuesdays and Thursdays 2-4, Fridays, varied aftemoon hours. The office is located at 217 Lafortune, the telephone number is 239-8684. 
5) The Notre Dame Baha'i Club will hold a discussion and presentation on "The Vision of Race Unity" at 7:30pm, Wed., March 4 in the Sorin Room in Lafortune. All are welcome to attend. 
Any dub wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 Lafortune. 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP)-libya is willing to hand over two sus­pects accused by the United States and Britain in the bomb­ing of Pan Am Flight 103 to a neutral country for trial, Libya's foreign minister said Sunday. 
Ibrahim Bishari made the an­nouncement on the same day he met with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev. The Russian official suggested that the two suspects be handed over to the United Nations. 
"Libya is ready to hand over the two suspects for trial in 

A RETREAT FOR GRADUATING SENIORS WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN COMMUNITY SERVICE OR SOCIAL ACTION 
The Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Campus Ministry are offering again this year the chance for a 
WEEKEND AWAY AT LAKE MICHIGAN FRIDAY, MARCH 27 -SUNDAY, MARCH 29, 1992 
Applications are available from the Center for Social Concerns and the Office of Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library, and are to be returned to either office by March 6th. 
Acceptance will be on a first come, first serve basis. 
For further information contact: Fr. Tom McDermott 239-7800 Kathy Royer 239-7862 

The Observer/Denise Martin

Art display 

Local artist and Notre Dame graduate Ken David, far right, shows off his sketches to parents during Saint Mary's Sophomore Parents Weekend. 
front of a neutral court in any neutral country and hopes that the U.N. Security Council will not make any resolutions against Libya," Bishari said after a meeting with Arab League Secretary General Esmat Abdel-Meguid. 
He did not specify what coun­tries would meet Tripoli's crite­ria. 
It was not immediately clear if the Libyan offer would be ac­ceptable to the United States and Britain, which have de­manded that Libya extradite the two alleged intelligence agents for trial. The Libyans were charged in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in December 1988, which killed 270 people. 
After the morning meeting between Bishari and Kozyrev, the Russian said he had urged Libya to comply with U.N. reso­lutions and hand over the two suspects. 
"The best way, in my view, would be to turn the suspects over to the United Nation's Secretary-General (Boutros Boutros-Ghali) without any conditions," Kozyrev said after meeting separately with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. His comments were carried by Egyptian television. 
"The issue should be settled in the way which is provided for by the unanimously adopted resolution of the U.N. Security Council. 
"We, for our part, are pre­pared to play any mediatory role within the framework of the solution envisaged by the 
U.N. Security Council," he added. 
Get Smart.  
College students can get great haircuts from profes­sional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. Stop in at our convenient mall location. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality.  
I Mastereuts -l I Mastereuts I I 20°/o Off I I 20°/o Off i Any Haircut i i Any Perm  I :  

L -~:~~~e~i~~:"~-_j L_N~:u~~!~ls_ ~ J 




MasterCuts 
family haircutters UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 
1= Aegis Corporation 1992 
1ne uoserver IVIUIIUay, IVIdll.,;ll ~. I ::1::1~
page 4 
Navy commander s~ys ships ready for action 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AI') -The commander of the 25-ship U.S. Navy fleet stationed in the Persian Gulf said his forces are ready for new orders if military action is taken to enforce U.N. demands that Iraq destroy its weapons. 
"We're not bluffing -we're !lying planes up and down the gulf every day to maintain our readiness," Hear Adm. Haynor Taylor, commander of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command, said in an interview Saturday with The Associated Press. 
Taylor, whose command ves­sel, the USS LaSalle, was on port call in Dubai, the southern gulf, said the fleet has no orders against Iraq at the mo­ment, but "we could get (them) ... at any time." 
The admiral would not make predictions of allied military action against Iraq in the face of Baghdad's refusal to destroy missile-production facilities. The U.N. Security Council has told Iraq it faces "serious con­sequences" by refusing to com­ply. 
The U.S. naval presence in­eludes the aircraft carrier USS America and her battle group, currently in the Hed Sea, and an amphibious force of five vessels on patrol in the gulf. 
The U.S. warships, supported by France and other members of the coalition that waged the Gulf War, still monitor the blockade of Iraq. They are con­centrated on the Red Sea near the Jordanian port of Aqaba because goods can be shipped by land from Jordan to Iraq. 
Taylor said a multinational force in the gulf also checks about 300 vessels a month. 
The admiral said the navy is conducting joint exercises with each gulf country to make them more "self-sufficient" and re­sistant to neighbors' threats. 
"Exercise Eager Mace," the navy's fourth joint naval and amphibious exercise with Kuwaiti forces since the end of the war, was to begin Sunday. 
An amphibious force of at least 1,500 was going ashore in Kuwait for the 11-day exer­cises. 
The joint exercises are the only times sailors and Marines go ashore in Kuwait because of the number of leftover mines in Kuwait's waters, Taylor said. 
The allied minesweeping ef­fort recovered and destroyed 1,286 mines after the war. 
Taylor took command of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command and assumed command of the Middle East Force in February 1991, before the Gulf War ended. He is a native of New Bedford, Mass. 
Saudi King edges toward establishing pluralistic state 
HIYADH. Saudi Arabia (AP)­
Saudi Arabia's absolute ruler, 
King Fahd, took a tentative first 
step toward sharing power 
Sunday by announcing the 
long-promised creation of an 
advisory body and spelling out 
a constitution based on Islamic 
law. 
The 61-member Majlis al­
Shura, or Consultative Council, 
was set up to make recommen­
dations to the king and the 
prime minister, although it 
would have no ability to make 
laws on its own. 
Its creation by royal decree was seen as a step toward po­litical pluralism in the Islamic kingdom ruled by the Al-Saud family since 1932. 
Fahd said in a statement that council members would be Saudi nationals aged 30 or older, apparently to be drawn from the kingdom's oil, reli­gious and academic communi­ties. If so, this would be the first time non-royals were al­lowed to participate in the kingdom's decision-making. 
The country's monarchs have been promising political re­forms for three decades. Pressure for change acceler­ated after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, leading to the deployment of hundreds of thousands of non-Muslim troops into this traditionally closed society. 
Sunday's reforms, contained in three decrees, were the most profound in Saudi history. 
"Decisions of the council go to 
MAPLE LANE 

1 I 

BARBER SHOP 
Serving the Notre Dame Community for 
Over 30 years 

I 2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
272-6722 

the prime minister, who turns them over to the Cabinet to consider. If the two bodies concur, the king may approve them. If they differ, then the king has the right to decide what he sees fit," one decree said. 
The second decree reorga­nized provincial administra­tions and the other, an 83-point document, formalized the exist­ing system of government, in­cluding that the throne will re­main in the Al-Saud family. 
This was widely seen as the outline of a formal constitution, although Fahd stressed that the Koran, Islam's holy book, "is the constitution" of the kingdom, apparently to placate conservatives opposed to change. 
In recent months, many Saudis have voiced hope for a written body of law, akin to a constitution, to adapt the coun­try's legal system to 20th cen­tury life. Today, the country is still governed by 7th century Islamic religious laws. 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Ready to roll 

Steve Curneao slides into the front seat of this modern driving contraption as he travels around campus. 
Building disaster hits Jerusalem 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Arab and Israeli rescue workers on Sunday dug through mud, gravestones and even skeletons Sunday to pull the last of 23 bodies out of a cafe that col­lapsed after a hillside cemetery slid onto the roof. 
Twenty-two other Palestinians inside the Paradise Garden Cafe were injured in the Saturday afternoon accident that was described as Jerusalem's worst building disaster tn modern times. 
Police said the mudslide, trig­gered by near-record winter snows and rains, caused the re­taining wall of the cemetery to cave in, toppling the roof and a wall of the popular cafe across from the walled Old City. 
About 20 people managed to flee the 45-foot-by-15-feet cafe unharmed. Among the dead was the cafe owner, Mohammed Salayma, and one son. 


A second son escaped because his father had sent him outside moments earlier to investigate a loud noise. 
"My father heard a noise on the roof, like a rock had hit it, and told me to have a look," the son, Abed, was quoted as telling The Jerusalem Post. "Just as I walked out the door, I heard a loud crash." 
He said he turned around to see the cafe flattened. 
"It was like a nightmare," said Farhat Abu Madi, an east Jerusalem barber who was playing poker inside at the time. 
"In less. than one second the wall suddenly collapsed and the entire place filled with dust. We couldn't even hear a single scream. We ran out," he said. 
Mayor Teddy Kollek told re­porters he did "not recall a disaster like this ever in Jerusalem." 
The rescue effort was a rare show of Jewish-Arab solidarity in this city torn by decades of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Arabs, army rescue workers and Jews in skullcaps sifted through rubble side by side in search of survivors. 
Tensions did surface when Arab bystanders tried to block Israeli ambulances from moving victims to Israeli hospitals. 
Israeli police also had to hold back frantic Palestinians who surged forward to try to identify loved ones each time a body was brought out. 
The rescue workers dug through mud and cement buried beneath gravestones and skeletons that poured in from the cemetery. 
SEN lOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 

Black Classic* ................. $41.95+ TAX Designer Tuxedos* ............. $56.00+ TAX Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAx 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 

Partial or full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: 

March 3rd, 4th and 5th, 1992. (6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Tuesday, March 3rd and Wednesday, March 4th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Thursday, March 5th. 





"Wf MAKf YONTV,,
THf fVf · 

lllt::VU::;t::JVt::l

Monday, March 2, 1992 page 5 

Tsongas' proposals attacked in debates 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. (AP) ­Paul Tsongas came under at­tack for his pro-business eco­nomic proposals Sunday as Democratic presidential rivals clashed in the third debate of a weekend that served as a pre­lude to eight primaries and caucuses next Tuesday. 
"We do not need the best president that Wall Street ever had. That's what Mr. Tsongas said he wants to be," Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton said in com­ments that were echo~d by Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin and former California Gov. Jerry Brown. 
Tsongas rejoined that his proposals can attract moderate Republicans and independent voters in the fall. "There are lots of Republicans out there who will come to us if we give them a home," he said. 
Clinton drew fire from Harkin and Brown over his environ­mental record, and shrugged it off as a predictable reaction from candidates trailing in the polls. 
But in between the cross-fire came agreement that on a range of issues -from the en­vironment to civil rights -any of the Democrats would be a better president than George Bush. 
The debate on the University of Maryland campus, coming after face-offs Saturday night in Denver and earlier Sunday in Atlanta, marked the end of a triple-header weekend in the wide-open Democratic presi­dential campaign. 
The stakes are extraordinar­ily high on Tuesday: Tsongas is trying to win outside his native New England and thus establish his national candidacy, and Clinton wants to score his first primary victory in Georgia, while looking for another suc­cess elsewhere. 
In all, 383 delegates will be selected on Tuesday in pri­maries in Georgia, Colorado, Maryland and Utah, and in caucuses in Washington, Minnesota, Idaho and American Samoa. 
As befits his position as leader in the Colorado polls, Tsongas was attacked by his rivals in the Denver debate over his support for nuclear power. Clinton is perceived as the leader in Georgia, and the con­frontation there was more po­lite, although Tsongas' eco­nomics were targeted by his ri­vals. 
Tsongas is also the leader in the polls in the Maryland race, and his rivals went after him beginning shortly after the opening moments. 
The line-up for the debates reflected the hopes of each of the contenders. Tsongas, Clinton, and Brown attended each of the three. Kerrey was in Colorado, participated in the Atlanta debate by satellite, but was denied a similar hook-up by Maryland officials. Harkin skipped the Georgia face-off. 

The Observer/Denise Martin 

T-shirts for sale 

Karen Fordham, a junior at Saint Mary's, sells t-shirts with the "Top Ten Reasons to Go to SMC" printed on them. 
Allegations force Adams to give up campaign 
SEATTLE (AP) -U.S. Sen. Brock Adams abandoned his re­election campaign Sunday after a news report surfaced with claims from eight unidentified women that he sexually abused and harassed them. 
State Democratic leaders had urged Adams to resign his Senate seat after The Seattle Times report appeared, but he refused to step down. 
"This is the saddest day of my life," Adams said at a news conference. 
"I care for people and I have never harmed anyone," he said. 
Real Estate AnalystProgram 
CHOOSE YOUR TRACK 
TO AN MBA! 

Want some rock-solid commercial real es~ate e~perience? Then consider one of two great opportumtles ":''ith THE PRUDENTIAL, the nation's largest real estate mvestor. 
We're looking for energetic, ambi.ti_ous BAs and BSs for the following Real Estate Analyst pos1t1ons: 
• Valuations Analyst-individuals seekin~ two years of y.'Ork 
expenence before applying to top bus1ness schools 1n 1994; and, 
• 0 erations Anal t-individuals plan~ing a full:time career w 1 e pursu1ng t e1r MBA on an even1ng/part time bas1s. 
To qualify, you need a B+ or bett~r undergra~u~te GPA and a strong mathematical aptitude. An 1ntens1ve tra1n1ng_ program will help prepare you for real estate modeling and f1nanc1al 
evaluation assignments. Both programs provide outstanding on-th.e-job training, experience, and e~posure to real estat~ markets and top investment professionals. The Prudential offers attractive starting salaries with comprehensive benefits. 
To apply, send your resume and acopy of your college transcript by March 6, 1992 to: THE PRUDENTIAL REALTY GROUP 
Chicago Realty Group Office Prudential Plaza Suite 1300 -13th Floor Chicago, IL 60601 ATTN: VALUATIONS ANALYST or 
OPERATIONS ANALYST (PLEASE SPECIFY) ATTN: Shelley Pottridge 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

The Prudential Realty Group 


ThePrudentaal ® 
"But I find now that it is not worth it to continue this cam­paign." 
Because of an earlier sexual misconduct accusation, Adams already was rated among the most vulnerable of senators whose terms expire this year. 
State ,party leaders said the articles, which covered half the front page and three full inside pages Sunday, were ruinous re­gardless of wheth.er the women were telling the truth. 
The Times is the largest-cir­culation newspaper in the state. 
"It's devastating. It was bad before, but now I think Brock's position is untenable," state Democratic Party Chairwoman Karen Marchioro said. "This is a very, very serious hit on a person who was not in that strong a position anyway." 

Marchioro said dropping his re-election bid was the least Adams should do. She said there was no indication any Republican opponent was in­volved with bringing forth the story accusing the first-term, liberal Democrat. 
Former U.S. Rep. Mike Lowry, who had all but formally announced he'd oppose Adams for the Democratic nomination, didn't immediately return telephone calls to his newly opened campaign headquarters or his office. 
INTERHALL COMPETITION ll" SOFTBALL WOMEN'S SOCCER 
GRAD/FAC/ST AFF COMPETITION SOFfBALL 
CAMPUS COMPETITION SOCCER CO-REC INDOOR SOCCER 
ENTRIES BEGIN FEB. 25 DEADLINE-MARCH 4 
INTERHALL COMPETITION TEAMTENNIS 
ENTRIES BEGIN APRIL 1 DEADLINE-APIUL 8 
Bush wins 'straw vote' in California 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­President Bush overwhelmingly won a straw vote among lead­ers of the California Republican Party Sunday after dropping efforts to seek a formal party endorsement. 
Bush won 89 percent of the straw vote among the delegates to the weekend California GOP convention. The vote was 7 45 for Bush, 92 for Buchanan. 
"The California Republican Party strongly supports George Bush. I think today that mes­sage is loud and clear," Party Chairman Jim Dignan said. 
But supporters of Buchanan -who has not campaigned at all in California -still claimed a victory from the Bush camp's decision not to seek a formal nod from the party. 
"They failed in their primary mission, which was to shut us out of the party mechanism," said Richard Neff, Buchanan's California campaign coordina­tor. "George Bush didn't get a formal endorsement. George Bush lost." 
On Saturday, Bush's support­ers gave up a two-month cam­paign to win the formal en­dorsement -although they claimed to have the votes -in the name of party unity. 
But Charlie Black, a senior adviser to Bush's campaign, said a non-binding straw vote was just as good. The impor­tant thing, he said, was "to demonstrate the breadth and depth of support for the presi­dent." 
"The two-thirds vote (for an endorsement) was there. But there were people who were strong supporters of the presi­dent who didn't want to see the rules suspended. People were reluctant to set a precedent," said Dignan. 
California Republican rules have called for strict party neu­trality until the primary. 
Dignan said earlier that a formal endorsement would give Bush a head start on building a California campaign organiza­tion for the general election. With the endorsement, the state party could have worked directly with Bush, rather than keeping an arms-length dis­tance until the June 2 primary. 


Smoking Stinks Don't Do It 


Call For A Fr~~ 199'2 Stud~nt Trav~l Catalog! 
111t:: uu::;t::IVt::l 

page 6 



Gorbachev: think tank not designed as opposition to new government 
MOSCOW lAP) -Mikhail Gorbadwv's new think tank has a lot going for it: a handsome complex of buildings, wealthy would-be Western contributors, a noble mission and. of course, its famous boss. 
But the Gorbachev Foundation, which officially opm1s Tuesday, also has a host of troublns. 
The government of Hussian President Boris Yeltsin appar­ently vi(lWS it with some suspi­cion. Hussian media have mostly ignored it. New tax laws are strangling it. And some re­searchers invited to join its staff are wary. 
Gorbaehev says he has no plans to use the non-profit, non-government organization to challenge Yeltsin -although he said the Hussian president had asked him pointblank whether he was creating an op­position movement. 
The foundation "is not a shadow cabinet," Gorbachev told the newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda on Saturday. "I personally am not going to become an opposition figure as long as the govern­ment is implementing reforms." 
The stated goals of the foun­dation -formally named the International Foundation for Socio-Economic and Political Studies -are to produce re­search papers. books, lectures and conferences that strengthen democracy and civil rights, plan market reforms, encourage disarmament and foster peace. 
Those aims reflect Gorbachev's achievements as Soviet leader from 1985 to 1991. 
But his failures also are re­flected in the foundation's shaky start. 

Private state starts in Russia 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian President Boris Yeltsin's ambi~ tious plan to privatize state land took effect Sunday, and prices jumped sharply on public transport in Moscow and St. Petersburg. 
The Novosti television news program showed a collective farm worker receiving docu­ments entitling her to her share of the land, which cari be passed on to her heirs. It was not clear if she received the deed Sunday. Under Soviet rule, almost all land belonged to the state. 
Meanwhile, prices on public transportation in Moscow and St. Petersburg rose more than 200 percent, to a half-ruble. The average monthly salary in Russia is 960 rubles. 
The moves are part of Yeltsin's broad package of re­forms being introduced on a piecemeal basis to transform the centrally run economy of the former Soviet Union to a market-oriented system. 
On Thursday, Deputy Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar, Russia's top economic official, said that most remaining price subsi­dies, including those for milk and bread, will be removed by the end of March. 
Gorbachev, who resigned Dec. 25, is still far more popular abroad than at home, where many blame him for the coun­try's economic free fall. 
Grigory Revenko, a longtime aide and one of the foundation's two vice presidents, notes that dozens of newspapers in the United States and elsewhere began publishing a monthly column by Gorbachev in February. But only one Hussian newspaper, the reformist daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, ex­pressed interest. 
"There's a peculiar silencing of Gorbachev today, even a de­sire that he not actively partici­pate in the internal life of the country," Revenko said in an interview. 
After initially disappearing from public view following his resignation, Gorbachev, who turns 61 on Monday, has lately been re-emerging. 
He grabbed headlines in late February by accusing Yeltsin and other commonwealth lead­ers of "flabbiness, self-impor­tance and irresponsibility" in the face of the Soviet Union's breakup. 
Yet much of Gorbachev's ac­tivity is directed abroad, just as it was during his presidency. He plans speaking trips to Germany in March, Japan in April and the United States in May, aides said. 
At the foundation, Gorbachev still has some of the trappings of his old power. 
A black Zil limousine, identi­cal to those he used as presi­dent, delivers him each day to the foundation, a complex of four buildings -including a 120-room hotel, swimming pool, cafeteria, bar, library and conference rooms. 
Escorted by some of the bodyguards still attending him, Gorbachev moves quickly through a marble foyer to his spacious second-floor office, near a sunlit atrium. 

Carnival helps Brazil forget poor economy 
HIO DE JANEIHO, Brazil (APl -Hecession-weary Brazilians took to the streets Sunday in the second day of Carnival to dance and frolic to parades that featured a revival of traditional baeklands music. 
Hevelers from Brazil's south­ern pampas to the jungles shrugged ofT economic troubles to dance frevo -a cousin to Dixieland jazz. samba and old­time rancho and marchinha music -as the four-day festi­val went into high gear. 
Carnival, formerly linked to Homan Catholic religious rites, is now an excuse for Brazilians to indulge in hedonism before Lent. The party ends on Ash Wednesday, when banks, shops and offices re-open. 
In Hio. crowds gathered at street-corner barbecues and open-air dances to sip cold beer and gyrate to the amplified samba. 
"When you're short on money, you go back to the ba­sics," said Joao Pereira, 26, who dressed as a clown and joined a neighborhood block party in the Gloria district. "Brazilians know how to have fun, even with the simplest of things." 
Cariocas, as Rio residents call themselves, packed the side­walks along Rio Branco Avenue downtown to watch the colorful floats and costumes of the city's smaller samba parades. 
Crowds also flocked to the Copaeabana, Ipanema and Barra da Tijuca beaches, de­spite partly cloudy skies and 80-degree temperatures, unusually cool for the southern hemisphere summer. 
This year, the lavish, expen­sive balls that dominated the 1970s and '80s were nearly empty. 
The 15th annual Sugar Loaf Ball, which charged $40 a 
ticket, was half empty at 1 a.m. Sunday. Everi its organizer, Guilherme Araujo, left early. 
Reports of violence also scared merrymakers. 
In one incident early Saturday, a gunfight erupted between two off-duty police of­ficers at the "Red and Black" ball in Rio's chic Scala night­club. 
Tables, chairs, and bottles flew in the melee. Two revelers were injured by gunfire and dozens of others suffered in­juries in the stampede for the exits. State troopers put down the commotion and closed the ballroom. 



Join the 

(Students With Aids Training) If you are a ND Student interested in being trained as a peer-educator, come to a meeting March 5th at 6:00 pm at the Health Center 
Monday, March 2, 1992 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Ye of little faith 
Morrissey freshmen Mark Hughes and Kyle Kusek jump into the lake on Saturday after losing a bet that St. John's basketball team would defeat Notre Dame. 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI . AREA STUDENTS · 
The 1992 xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Classes & Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts & Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies & Social Sciences from May 18-August 14. For your copy call or write: 



~VIEK 

Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-3123 513/745·3601 
Xavier University is an academic community commilled lo equal opporlunity for all persons regardless ofage, sa, race, religion, handicQp, or nalional origin. 


Monaay, Marcn ~. 1~~~ 1ne uoserver I.Ji::I.Yt:l 
Nature groups increase airport site opposition 
CHICAGO (AP) Environmentalist have taken a look at the proposed site for a third Chicago-area airport, and they say it's for the birds. 
And if nature groups have any say, the only wings over Lake Calumet will continue to have feathers on them. 
The groups say they intend to put pressure on both Chicago Mayor Richard Daley and Gov. James Edgar about plans to build the airport on the south­east side site. 
"I can't imagine a more ter­rible location for an airport than Lake Calumet," said William Beecher, an expert on birds and former director of the Chicago Academy of Sciences. 
Hundreds of thousands of birds -both common and en­dangered -nest in the area, and millions of others pass through each year on a major migratory flyway. 
Beecher and other conserva­tionists say they are not only worried of the effect an airport might have on the birds that now inhabit the marshy site, they're also worried about the impact the birds might have on landing or departing jetliners. 
The city's Lake Calumet air­port plan acknowledges that about 1.000 collisions between birds and commercial aircraft result in significant damage each year. 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Police fatally shot a man Sunday who tried to grab an officer's gun near the finish line of the city marathon just minutes after the winner had run by. 
There was no explanation for the sudden attack on two offi­cers by the man who had been walking through the finish area with a cousin, police Lt. William Hall said. 

The Federal Aviation Administration says about 43 percent of aircraft-bird calli­sions involve gulls, and Alan Anderson of the Chicago Audubon Society says a small island just outside the proposed airport boundary has the largest gull colony in the inte­rior United States -more than 43,000 at the end of the breed­ing season. 
Conservationists also note that many of the birds at the site are quite a bit larger than gulls. The Lake Calumet area is home to many geese, swans, herons and even sandhill cranes, which have wing spans approaching eight feet. 
Steve Sedam pointed out that conservationists, too, some­times fly on commercial airlin­ers. 
"The survival of sandhill cranes is important to Audubon members, but their own sur­vival is even more important," Sedam said. 
The proposed airport site contains 1.400 acres of wet­lands and open water, and is estimated to be home to 72 bird species -including five that are on Illinois' endangered list. Several thousand birds from one endangered species, the black-crowned night heron, nest a half mile from one pro­posed runway. 
"The cousin says he doesn't know why the dead man flipped out," Hall said. 
As runners streamed across the finish line, the man as­saulted the officers on foot pa­trol in a food-and-beverage sales area. He knocked both of­ficers to the ground and began trying to take the 9mm pistol from the holster of one officer. 
"A tug-of-war ensued for possession of the weapon," Hall 
l.Jpcoming Events 
TIIURSDAY, MARCH S 
JORGE CORREA Fonner Dean of the Law Faculty, Diego Portales University, and Director or the Chilean National Commission for Truth and Reconciliation 

"TRANSITION TO DEMOCRACY AND THE JUDICIARY IN CHILE" COS(JODSored with the Center for 
Civil and Human Rights 

12:15 p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgh Center 
Everyone Welcome 

INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAl




I IIIII~N~!;;o;J;!?!: 
The Observer!Oenise Martin 

Trying it on for size 
Amy Mestrovich, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, picks out her class ring. 
said. "The victim was unarmed, but he was very large and very muscular and he was obviously overpowering the officers." 
The officers fired nearly si­multaneously, hitting the man in the chest twice. The struggle occurred in an area packed with thousands of spectators and contestants, dozens within immediate gunshot range, making the decision to shoot more difficult, Hall said. 
Autopsy tests were planned to determine if the dead man might have been under the in­fluence of drugs. None were found on his body, Hall said. 
"This gentleman appeared to have immense strength," said witness Joan Barton. 
The annual marathon winds up just south of downtown at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. The shooting came minutes after the first few run­ners completed the 26.2-mile loop. 
John Treacy of Ireland won in a time of 2 hours, 12 minutes and 28 seconds. 
Madina Biktajirova of Belarus, the former Soviet re­public once known as Byelorussia, was the fastest woman. She set a course record of 2 hours, 26 minutes and 22 seconds. 
Ban not meant to control churches 
WINSTON-SALEM (AP) -A possible ban of two churches from the Southern Baptist Convention shouldn't be viewed as a way to pressure the con­gregations into taking tradi­tional stances on homosexual­ity, an official said. 
"Neither the Southern Baptist Convention nor the executive committee has any control nor any desire to control those churches. They are completely autonomous." said T.C. Pinckney of Alexandria, Va., a member of the Southern Baptist Executive Committee. 
The congregation at Pullen Memorial Baptist Church in Raleigh voted Sunday to bless a homosexual union. Meanwhile, Olin Binkley Memorial Baptist Church's congregation in Chapel Hill is considering the li­censing of a homosexual minis­ter. 
The committee, on the motion of Pinckney, decided to repri­mand the churches during its meeting in February and called on them to take a traditional stance on homosexuality. 
Pinckney said that the com­mittee was taking what it per­ceives to be a biblical stand and that those who do not agree with it define themselves as not being in line with biblical belief regarding homosexuality. 
"Homosexuality is against God's word, and this clearly indicates to such a church that is not acceptable in Southern Baptist polity," Pinckney said. 
Pinckney also made motions to prevent churches that ap­prove or endorse homosexual lifestyles from contributing money to Southern Baptist causes and seating messengers, or voting representatives, at national conventions. 
"If you don't say anything about it, then you have ac­cepted it by default. So we've been forced to take a stand on it," Pinckney told the Winston­Salem Journal in a telephone interview. 
On Sunday, officials at Pullen Memorial said 64 percent of the 531 ballots received from church members supported the blessing for same gender cou­ples. 
"It's been a very intense time," the Rev. Mahan Siler, minister at Pullen Memorial, told WTVD-TV in Durham. 
YOO ASKED FOR IT, YOO GOT IT... 

KARAOKE NIGHT at ALOMNI-SENIOR CLOB 
IllALUMNI 


~!:CLUB 
EVERY WEDNESDAY IN MARCH OPEN AT :00 PM KARAOKE 10-2 
Business 
pageS Monday, March 2, 1992 
Alumni club refuses to sponsor An Tostal 
By JULIE BARRETI 
Assistant News Editor 
One Notre Dame alumni club refused to sponsor An Tostal this year, deeming an event solely for tha purpose of fun as an unworthy eause for a contribution. 
The Student Union Board (SUB} b~:~gan sending letters to Notre Dame alumni clubs last year in an efl'ort to raise money for An Tostal. 
"I was very angry and thought this letter was way out of context," said John Conroy. president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of So'Uthwest Florida. "It just isn't right that (SUB) is asking alumni clubs for money when they are aimed at greater missions." 
The Southwest Florida club recently raised money to pay for a local NO student's tuition, and thought that "the very idea of sending funds" for something " ... fun is utterly prepos­terous," Conroy said. 
Steven Hank, SUB finandal (:hairman, said the point of asking alumni clubs to sponsor An Tostal is not primarily to receive money. 
"Sponsoring An Tostal provides positive exposure for the clubs to the Notre Dame com­munity as a whole," Hank said. By sponsoring An Tostal, alumni clubs can show that, they are still active in the ND community and, at the same time, encourage students. especially se­niors, to join the clubs after they graduate, Hank explained. 
Donating money to the event is a sign of generosity and also a way in which alumni can "pass on the enjoyment" of An Tostal that they experienced when they were at ND to the cur­rent students. according to Hank. 
"(Conroy} can't fairly assess the value of An Tostal to students past, present or future because he graduated prior to the advent of the event at ND. and therefore was never exposed to it," Hank said. 
Hank intends to invite Conroy to An Tostal this year so that he can "see what it's all about." 

SUB begins An Tostal fundraising 
By JULIE BARRETI 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Union Board (SUB) has launched a major fundraising campaign in order to make An Tostal the biggest and best ever in its 25­year history. 
"SUB is trying to make this year's An Tostal the best possible," said sophomore Steven Hank, SUB financial chairman for An Tostal, "not just for the 25th year anniversary, but for the student body." 
A major source of funding comes from the $10,000 that Student Government gives to help SUB fund An Tostal, according to Matt Bomberger, a member of SUB and An Tostal coordinator. 
However, the most money raised for 
, An Tostal comes from the "The Shirt" t-shirt sales. This year, SUB raised $24,000 from the t-shirt sales. The idea for "The Shirt" sales was originated last year by former An Tostal commissioner and '91 Notre Dame graduate, Brennan Harvath. 
"The huge profits made from the 'The Shirt' sales was why SUB was able to increase the size of An Tostal last year," Bomberger said. 
Harvath also started the Day Sponsorship program in which companies can sponsor an entire day of An Tostal activities. In return, they ha~e their company name printed on a banner to be displayed at the events, and they receive a free adver­tisement in the An Tostal booklet for that day. 
The An Tostal committee also ofTers sponsorships to class officers, resident halls and various clubs at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Another fundraising effort is the solicitation of donations from the Notre Dame alumni clubs which started last year. Bomberger said that this efTort was "more successful this year" because it has "gained momentum" from last year's efforts to receive financial support from the clubs. SUB received about $670 from the alumni clubs this year, according to Hanks. 
If the An Tostal booklet and final games of Bookstore Basketball pay for themselves through advertisements and sponsorships and Saint Mary's can pay for its entire day of events, the projected budget for An Tostal will be $43,000, according to Bomberger. 
"We are planning the best program for the amount of money we get," Bomberger said. 
New events planned for this year's An Tostal include an air obstacle course, a velcro wall, a tape recording booth, a wild video dance party in Stepan and Neo-Geo, a national college video game contest in which the winner will receive $700 worth of video game software. 
Donations, advertisements and sponsorships are being accepted by SUB's An Tostal committee up to March 20. 
Milken speaks to media for first time since sentencing 
NEW YORK (AP) -Michael Milken insisted in his first jailhouse interview that moneymaking never motivated him and that he's been misinter­preted by critics as the epitome of 1980s greed. 
The wealthy junk-bond financier told Forbes magazine that he had sounded an early alarm about high corporate debt and hostile takeovers, and never traded on inside informa­tion, as alleged in the best-selling book "Den of Thieves." 
"I know this will sound 
Pollyannaish to you, but I wasn't basically focused on making money," he said. 
Milken, 45, said he regretted dealing with Ivan F. Boesky, the disgraced stock speculator whose squealing led to Milken's prosecution for securities fraud in the biggest Wall Street scan­dal of all time. 
"It was obviously a terrible mistake ever doing a single trade with him," Milken said in the magazine's March 16 edition, which hits newsstands Monday. 
The 15-page interview is the first time Milken has spoken to the media since he was sentenced to a 10-year federal prison term in November 1990. 
Under terms of a civil litigation settlement likely to be finalized in early March, Milken will relinquish much of his wealth to satisfy lawsuits from the government and investors who claim his actions defrauded them. 
The settlement will leave him with $125 million. 

-------------------------~­

Viewpoint 
Monday, March 2, 1992 page 9 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Usa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .....••••••............ Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •...............•. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ...............David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by. the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND should hire more faculty, enroll fewer students 
Dear Editor: education. The concerns shown can handle larger classes. This versity. One: more and better of the University. But since the 
The recent discussion regard­by both arguments mentioned may be true. But larger classes qualified faculty could be hired. University receives a large ing Notre Dame's shift of focus demonstrate that the faculty do not impede the faculty as Two: a decrease in the number portion of its endowment fund from an undergraduate univer­and students realize this. The much as they retard the of new students admitted each from alumni, wouldn't it make sity to a research university has problem arises because it ap­learning of the students. year. Both solutions would al­sense to produce better edu­triggered many interesting ar­pears the administration does low the professors more time to cated alumni; giving them a guments both for and against not. Although only a freshman, my do research, i.e. "actively greater chance at getting better this move. Both sides have Faculty research is necessary schedule this semester has thinking, reading and writing jobs, i.e. making more money, credible arguments for why this if the University desires to at­demonstrated this point. In two about a certain topic" (M. therefore increasing their abil­transition should be encouraged tract top professors and for of my classes, which inci­Depaul, Feb. 20, The Observer). ity to donate even more to the or discouraged. these professors to continue to dentally are humanity courses, It would also eliminate large university? 
One view is that undergradu­be the best. Learning does not the professors will not assign class size, lack of classes to take Educating a person, preparing ates will become "second class stop once a person has reached any papers because "I cannot at DART, and the number of that person to be a contributing students." The opposing ar­his/her degree or doctorate. grade that many papers." Nor classes taught by graduate member of society, shouldn't gument claims that the faculty But research takes time. In should these professors be ex­students and under-qualified depend on money, but since will lose their reputation as top order for a professor to have pected to. Grading 120 five­professors. This solution re­Notre Dame has proven again educators. The answer, I be­time to do research and teach, page papers would take hours, mains only in theory because of and again that it does, I would lieve, is that both will happen something must be sacrificed. if not days. Because of this lack the money it would cost the hope that those who have a say unless the administration of this It appears that the adminis­of writing, and the thought that University. Hiring more pro­in the doings of the University University makes some tration seems to have sacrificed goes into a written effort, my fessors and/or decreasing en­remember this old maxim: It changes. the education of the under­education and learning suffers. rollment would deflate the en­takes money to make money. 
The title, "research university" graduate students. Larger class Two solutions arise which dowment fund, much to the does not automatically place sizes are the result of choosing would solve the problems that chagrin of those in charge. Jeff Dodd that university in the upper this option. Some people may accompany the ascent of Notre I realize the importance of the Flanner Hall echelon of institutes of higher think that a "good" professor Dame to a major research uni-endowment fund to the stability Feb.20,1992 
Gender relations improving too slowly
Call to action given 
Dear Editor: for nearly twelve years, I committed students. I am writing in support of the continue to be disappointed at My hope is that all members of request made by David how little overall progress has the SMC/ND community will
to save SMC church 
Florenzo that the Notre been made in creating­recognize that the love one Dame/Saint Mary's community environmental change to another tenet charges us to be Dear Editor: renovated Sacred Heart, is no undertake more preventive and establish mutually respectful respectful and caring in our reason for that Sister to tear educational efforts regarding relationships between the interactions. I appreciate Mr. 
This is for the students of that beautiful church apart. rape and other sexual offenses genders. Florenzo's call to action. Saint Mary's College. I am a The historic value only should · while continuing to support I applaud the continued efforts lady, 95 years old, who has forbid it. Does that nun know 
more fully the needs of the of the Campus Alliance for Rape Mary E. OePauwDirector,read how one nun wants to tear where some of the things in the victims. Elimination (CARE), Sex Offense Counseling Center down the beautiful Church of church come from? 
As Director of the Counseling Services (SOS) of Madison Saint Mary's College Loretto -that beautiful church If she touches that church she Center at Saint Mary's College Center and a dedicated group of Feb.26,1992
of historic value -and to re­will be remembered only as the move all things of beauty. All I one who destroyed that ask is that you girls and alumni, beautiful church and for 
Children thank school for love and support
who have gone on with your nothing else. 
Dear Editor: employees of Notre Dame at the Karen Casey lives, will not allow her to touch On behalf of the entire Vicsek death of our mother, Mary Hesburgh Library that church in any way. Pauline Scherman family, we would like to express Vicsek, of Building Services. Diane Sabaj 
South Bend, IN Just because Notre Dame Feb.25,1992 our sincere appreciation for all Grounds Department 
the love and support from the Feb.23,1992 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
KENNEDY 
YOU
AIRPOR:T, 
Gar IT.
PUA~. 
I I 
fOI<TY 
MIN~. 
MAYBe 
AN HOUR lffA!e(£T 
TRAFFIC. 

8Y7H/3 U/AY, I'V/3 GOT50M8 
PR&TTY 57R{)NG Vl/3tl./5 ABOUT HOW THIJ MAY~ 15 [J()ING. fOR. A $5 RATFe&, I WON'T 5HARE THeM tui7H YOU AU­
TH& WAY Ol!T 7D TH& AIRPORT. 
~~;:,...,.,_/ 
'We have forgotten how to be good guests, how to walk lightlly on the earth as other creatures do.' 
Only One Earth Conference 
Picture a bright blue ball submittin ': QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, March 2, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Spineless left-wing solutions' will not better U.S. 
Dear Editor: was another day to slip 
This is a msponse to Father between death's fingers., Griffin's piece on Jesse surviving, if anything, just to Jackson last Friday. I've been prove their manhood and their in another one of my pride. No real purpose beyond philosophical moods lately: that. What these kids needed thinking about the world, the was a good old fashioned state of things, politics, far ofT spanking by someone who places with beaches and loved and cared for them, but mountains, romance, etc. And as was usual, their parents I began to wonder about the were either dead, moved out, condition of gang members in or just as lost as they were. 
L.A. in relation to Father The cycle continues. All I Griffin's article, since they are could do was show that I part of America too. cared, believed in their ability What in the world is he to succeed, and try to instill thinking'?! Jesse Jackson as a confidence in themselves and gift to the nation? Well, to use in God; nothing the a term mindless, decrepit, and government could ever hope unoriginal teenyboppers have to do. I don't know if my been using lately-NOT! I have friendship arrd preaching did worked with L.A. gang mem­any good. Lord knows they bers bnfore, during my under­desperately needed both from graduate years, .through a tu­anyone who cared. What they toring program at a juvenile don't need are left-wing detention center, Camp David groups bitching and Gonzalez. complaining because one can 
I noticed the same patterns only complain for so long. with each kid I worked with; Martin Luther King, Jr. had no direction, no guidance, no reason to peacefully demand confidence, no love, no trust. . his rights and responsibilities . Each waking day for them as a U.S. citizen. Now we 
White male objects to label of 'oppressor' 
Dear Editor: Let us not forget that the In yesterday's Observer, KKK started as an anti­Father McDermott wrote a Catholic organization, only Campus Ministry column later expanding its hatred to where he addressed the issue encompass Jews and Blacks. of ministry to women and Let us not forget that as late their liberation. I wish to re­as 1974, our football team spond by asking that he speak was pelted with whiskey for himself . bottles and dead fish as it 
There is a common miscon­attempted to play a football ception on this campus that game at Georgia Tech. white males are the cause of Father McDermott echoes all oppression in this country. the presumption that we have Father McDermott expressed something to feel guilty about. that theme in his artide. As a While our history mandates :iO year old white male, law that we apologize to no one, student, father and husband, I nor take responsibility for op­take issue with this pression we did not create eharaeterization . but, instead, were victimized 
While it may be true that by, McDermott shares the Protestant white males have politically correct diversity controlled this country, and rallying cry, throwing out his hencn its tools of oppression, net of guilty feelings, hoping to and while there may be some ensnare the unwary. substance to Father My ancestors were not the McDermott's guilt over the cause of oppression in this or way many priests have treated any other country. Just as I do women in our Church, I find not expect Blacks, Hispanics his rallying cry, that we men or Italians in this country to need to become more sensitive apologize for surviving, nor do to our oppressive nature, I expect a Roman Catholic highly offensive. priest, clearly of Irish descent, 
I am Irish Catholic, like to characterize my heritage as many others on this campus. perpetrator rather than When my ancestors came to victim. this country, they did so If Father McDermott feels a fleeing starvation, oppression, particular calling to ministry and destitution. When they to women's liberation, there arrived in this country, they are millions of members of the were greeted by more of the National Organization for same. Let us not forget that as Women who are in need of his late as 1960 the single most help. They are the ones, after important issue in American all, who have advocated the politics was John Kennedy's slaughter of 25 million babies Catholicism. in their quest for liberty. 
Let us not forget that our In the meantime, the rest of ancestors labored in inner ci­us will do what we have ties and built a railroad across always done. We will continue this country, filling the cotTers to live among each other as of such neat people as Leland man and woman, husband Stanford {they called them and wife, brother and sister, robber barons, because they treating each other with built empires, with the help of respect and love ... not based an uncompensatory tort on misplaced notions of guilt, system, literally on the backs but on a sincere commitment of poor immigrants). If the to the dignity and equality of name sounds familiar, he all God's children. founded the school our Tom Dixon current administration so fer­Off-campus vently strives to emulate. Feb.26, 1992 have these nettlesome left­wingers who demand rights, but run gutlessly away from responsibility. This is what I have seen in the Chicano Power groups from my old neighborhood. East Side San Jose; this is. what 1 continue to see in other radical activist groups, democrats in general, and Jesse Jackson. 
It makes me sick to see them misleading so many of my people with unwarranted class-envy and bogus accusations of oppression. The only oppression that exists is in their minds; when they come to believe that they cannot achieve because of outside forces; because the boogey men (white male eurocentrist dictators) are out to get them; because they have no role models to look up to; because life has dealt them a cruel hand. 
They don't need spineless left-wing solutions to get them out of their responsibility. Part of standing on one's own feet is accepting responsibility and all the challenges of life. The leftwing democrats take all of that away by paternalistically providing for the "disinherited" the means to live-all the beauty and the art of living and growing and learning and creating is lost when responsibility is already provided! 
I grew up in poverty in a pre­dominantly Mexican neighbor­hood; I know what it's like; I know what's there; I know what people's excuses are. People may say. "Well Edgar, you're the exception. Someone gave you a break somewhere along the line because they {democrats speak in terms of "they") were feeling compas­sionate." This is the most in­sulting and condescending re­mark anyone can say to me. I worked my ass ofT to be where I am. 
Fortunately, my parents cared for me and instilled in me conservative values. I tried to do the same for the kids I worked with at Camp David Gonzalez. Government cannot do anything when parents are a negative factor in the lives of these kids. There's an enormous vacuum without the proper upbringing from parents that can never be filled by any government bu­reaucracy. 
Only God's love can satisfy their hunger for meaning and direction. It has in the past. It will in the future. Does Father Griffin honestly think that some liberal self-proclaimed messiah {Jesse-us), who naively believes America needs him, can do anything to help them, much less the country? 
Do any of you liberals out there, at the very least, even remember the lesson of Jaime Escalantes or the movie about him, "Stand and Deliver"? The boyz in the hood need a thou­sand Jaime Escalantes to teach them how to succeed in this country. They don't need Jesse Jackson's empty politics. 
Edgar Macias Acosta Off-Campus 
Feb.22,1992 


Student defends'infantile' tactics 
Dear Editor: ask the basketball players contend with the same is 
On behalf of the front row, I what type of verbal abuse they failing to maximize the would like to thank Ms. Teresa have been subjected to in precious home-court Gehred for her complimentary opposing arenas. And while advantage our team needs. If letter about the unruly first you are at it, ask them if they UCLA had come up clutch in row during the UCLA don't take special delight in the final minutes, rest assured basketball game. I know she 'hitting the big shot' to silence their satisfaction would have didn't expect her letter to be a deafening arena, or an overflowed to a few long, received in a complimentary obnoxious heckler. I know triumphant stares into our manner, but corning from Anthony Peeler {of Missouri) boisterous section. someone who obviously knows did when our ridicule was nothing about the home-court answered b¥ 30 points, and Fortunately, UCLA didn't play "advantage, her comments several of those clutch well down the stretch, and if were an unintended pat-on­baskets, followed by long, we, as a crowd, were able to the-back to a student section nodding stares into our disrupt the concentration of that stepped up its intensity to silenced first row. Tracy Murray with chants of help propel an astounding "overrated," or Don McLean upset. It is an amusing game of cat­with chants of "McLean 
To suggest that the crowd and-mouse, and every su­sucks," or the bench-warmers should not try to "intimidate perstar understands how it is by ridiculing their name, their and demean" the opposition played. I truly believe most haircuts, or their lack of demonstrates a lack of athletes and coaches enjoy the playing time, then we should understanding of Ms. Gehred's spotlight and savor the congratulated and applauded; behalf. What is the home­subtleties of this 'sideshow.' both for contributing to a court advantage? It is a There is almost no feeling as monumental upset that will familiarity with the surround­sweet as leaving an opposing provide tremendous lift to the ing environment and playing crowd defeated and silenced; future of Notre Dame surface, the absence of the that's one reason why athletes basketball, and for providing fatigue and disorientation that take such pride in winning on some of the intensity, emotion, travel entails, and most the road. and enthusiasm that has made importantly, the unconditional "Talkin' trash," whether you college hoops 'America's emotional support of an like it or not, is a part of darling.' enthusiastic crowd, otherwise athletics, especially college Thank you again, Teresa known as the sixth man in basketball. Our basketball Gehred. basketball. team takes extraordinary Andrew Saldino 
Since you are a student man­abuse on the road, and for St. Edward's Hall ager, Teresa, why don't you their opponents not to have to Feb.26,1992 
----·--~-----~~-------~--~------. 
Accent 
Monday, Marc h 2, 1992 
page 11 

The pros of 
ohn 
·Prof. James Koh~ emphasizes research and teaching 

The Observer I Sean Farnan Engineering Professor James Kohn works one-on-one with an undergraduate student. In 1987, Kohn received the College of 
Engineering's "Teacher of the Year" award. 
By TONY POPANZ Accent Writer 
Holding one of the longest careers at the University, James Kohn PhD, an assistant chairperson and professor in the College of Engineering, has transcended the expectations of both students and fellow professors. 
Throughout his 35 years of research and teaching at Notre Dame since 1955, Kohn has imparted his knowledge and unlimited assistance to those who have needed it. 
Recently, Kohn. received the notable commendation of being named a Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. He learned of this distinction in July of last year. 
As a practicing engineer for more than 25 years, a member of the Institute for ten years, and a professor sponsored by five of his peers, Kohn accepted the honor citing him for his expertise as an educator and researcher in high pressure thermodynamics. 
Fellow status, according to the Institute, is "one of the highest honors which can be conferred to a chemical engineer." However, when Kohn was asked why he deserved such an honor, he flatly replied, "I absolutely have no idea. For one thing, with the criteria the Institute has, it is clear that someone young can't receive it." 
Despite his modest response, the Fellow status has not been acquired by any other engineer or professor currently employed by the University. This exclusiveness, in itself, bestows much honor upon Kohn. 
Because of Kohn's past ac­complishments, it is no wonder why 
'When I teach, I try to impart the essentials with enthusiasm to my students... To revitalize the material means to communicate my interest.' 
-James Kahn 
the Institute would have an inclination to nominate him for Fellow status. Throughout his 35 years at the university, Kohn has taught 33 different courses, not all within the College of Engineering. 
It would probably be safe to say, said Kohn, that no current educator at Notre Dame has taught the same number of different courses. 
Also, Kohn has served as the head of numerous laboratories, clubs, special-interest groups, and committees. 
Four years ago, in 1987, Kohn truly reaped the harvest well-watered by the sweat of his brow. He accepted the College of Engineering "Outstanding Teacher of the Year" award. 
"This award I look upon with most favor, since the undergraduates were the people who really awarded me it." 
His popularity with his students is most likely due to the fact that Kohn strives to be an unselfish, available resource. "If I can aid people to do what they do well, then I can be con­sidered as a valuable person-a servant," said Kohn. 
In 1983, Kohn received the University's most-coveted Faculty Award. He received it as gratitude for his long, outstanding dedication to teaching and research. 
"When I teach, I try to impart the essentials with enthusiasm to my students. They need to be enthused with what they study. To revitalize the material means to communicate my interest," said Kohn. 
Not only may Kohn be considered a highly involved professor, but he also is a widely known researcher and patent holder. In the past, Kohn has authored 81 technical publications, and has held two patents in the United States and 30 in 15 foreign countries. 
One of these patents involves the removal of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) from natural gas, while the other involves the extraction of carbon dioxide (C02) from natural gas. 
These patents, said Kohn, inclusively totalled one million dollars in the late 1940s. 
"But I didn't get that. It didn't matter, though. I was a graduate student at the time, so I felt that the $2,500 they gave me was fair," added Kohn. 
Before arriving at the University of Notre Dame, Kohn received three degrees. After beginning his education at the University of Wisconsin, a stint in the military during World War II interrupted his progress toward his degree. 
In 1946, after returning from the military, Kohn worked for Reily Tar and Chemical in Indianapolis. Soon 
afterward,  Kohn  received  his  
undergraduate  degree  at  the  
University  of Notre  Dame,  and  

eventually received a master's degree at the University of Michigan and a PhD at the University of Kansas. 
Since Kohn's appointment to the Notre Dame faculty in 1955, he has proved himself to be a great asset not only to the College of Engineering, but also to the whole University. Throughout his career, he has concentrated on generously providing assistance whenever he is asked. 
"I try to be a scholar with publications and such. But service to the students of Notre Dame and my fellow professors is what I center on," concluded Kohn. 
Are you a movie buff? 
Would you like to see a movie every other week for free? 
\ 

If you answered 'yes' to these questions, then The Observer wants you! Accent is looking for an avid movie goer with strong writing skills to be The Observer's movie reviewer. Just like Siskel or Ebert, you will be the ND/SMC community's voice on the world of film. If you are interested, submit a writing sample (movie reviews encouraged) and a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan at The Observer office by March 4. COTH, AMST or ENGL majors preferred. Any questions call Jahnelle at 239-5303. 
-------· ~----~-----~-----­
page 12 The Observer 
#1 0 Tar Heels drop fourth straight 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. (APl ­How many times does a team lose when an opposition guard gets the game-winning basket on his second attempt at a tip­in? 
Probably only a bit more fre­quently than North Carolina loses four games in a row. 
Walt Williams' tip-in with 1.3 seconds left Sunday gave Maryland an 82-80 victory over No. 10 North Carolina. sending the Tar lleels to their longest losing streak since 1965. 
Maryland led 51-29 at half­time bnfore North Carolina (18­7, 8-6 ACC) rallied. The Tar Heels took their first lead at 80­79 on a three-point play by Hubert Davis with 18.5 seconds to go. 
Evnrs Burns then missed a short jumper for Maryland, and the 6-foot-8 Williams tipped up the rebound. Williams got his hand on the ball again and con­verted his second tip-in attempt for the victory. 
"Evers went up for a shot and it went a little long," Williams said. "I just went in there and took the ball and just tried to go in there and score. I think I went up a little bit too quick, so as soon as I hit the floor I went right back up and tapped it 

Smith, however, derived some satisfaction out of seeing the slumping Tar Heels storm back from their worst halftime deficit of the season to overtake made a short jumper, North Carolina missed a shot, and Burns followed with a layup to give Maryland a 78-72 lead with 1:52 left. 
Monday, March 2, 1992 
Reduce. Reuse. Recycle. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
BE ON T.V. many needed for  FOR SALE: 2 STORY  NEED A JOB NEXT YEAR?  HURRY.!  Don't Miss Out.  SOUTH  BEGINNING BRIDGE LESSONS  
Notices  commericials. Now hiring all ages.  CONTEMPORARY IN WOODED  Student Activities is hiring  PADRE and CANCUN SPRING  BRIDGE CENTER, 2333 Miracle  
For casting info.  SETIING. 5 BDRM, 2·1/2 BATH,  students tor:  BREAK of "92"! Seven night  Lane, Mishawaka, ln. (Town &  
Call (615) 779·7111 Ext. T-1678.  MOVE-IN CONDITION. $140'S.  LaFortune Building Managers  packages from $199. Lowest prices  Country Shopping Center)  
USED TEXTBOOKS!  NOREEN O'BRIEN 234·5429  Stepan Building Managers  guaranteed. Call Orion Tours  STUDENT DISCOUNT: $10 ·Eight  
Buy & Sell Books  AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS  RE/MAX 1 00 255-5858  Office Assistants  TODAY: 1-800·800·6050.  Week Course-7·9 PM. Beginning:  
Pandora's Books  phone orders. People Call you. Will  Sound/light Technicians  Wednesday, March 4, 1992 to April  
r ...  3 blks. from ND  Train. 1·800·727-9716 Ext. 555.24  386SX 16Mhz 2MBRam  Programming Assistants  000 THE COPY SHOP  000  22, 1992.  Pre-Registration  
233·2342/10-5:30 M-Sun  HAS.  IBM PS/2 55 60MB HD  Information Desk Attendants  LaFortune Student Center  Desired.  Call255·6613 or 291­ 
Super VGA Monitor  Theodore's Room Monitors  We're Open Everydayl!l  4833.  Full payment at first meeting.  
ATIENTION: ex-NVA employees  Need ride for 2 to Pittsburgh for  Math Co-Processor  Disc Jockeys  
living in Chicago area: Observer  break.  Will pay bucks! Call Kerry  Software Installed  Games Room Attendants  cancun countdown: 4 days  to the athletic dept.:  
interested in interviewing you for  now x4311.  Must Sell: $ 1700 OBO  your time is gonna come  
story series  Manuel 283-4333  Pick up applications at  FLORIDA ON A BUDGET $100.00  -led zeppelin  
Need a ride to anywhere in or  LaFortune Information Desk.  per person per week. Fort Myers  
TYPING AVAILABLE  around NJ on Mar 7 or 8 Sat or Sun  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  Deadline for applications is  area 1-813·353·1437.  S&M (and K)  
287-4082.  will pay gas/tolls call Jessica x2948  89 Mercedes ...................... $200  Friday, March 6.  Thanks for the use of your couch  
86 VW. ................................. $50  MOVING OFF CAMPUS? VOTE:  Thursday!  
"more security at bars"*  87 Mercedes ...................... $100  KEITH McKEON &  MONDAY  
••extend weekend wheels**  Student staying in South Bend for  65 Mustang .......................... $50  MAGGIE, KATEY, LAURIE, KAREN,  TOM PITSTICK  3/2  Dede,  
vote: mckeon/pitstick for  the summer interested in house·  Choose from thousands starting  JOY, MO AND JULIE (WAY OFF IN  oc crime #1 concern  Have fun in Arizona-! know i will!  
oc co-pres. monday  sitting or subletting. Call Monica at  $25.  CHI· TOWN): CANCUN IS  Love,  
283-4098.  FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  COMING. TIME IS TICKING. SUN  Two Winds and Waking Nose,  Your Evil-Twin!  
Details 801·379-2929 Copyright  AND SIN ARE ON THE WAY ....  
Lost and Found  FOR RENT  #IN11KJC  Top ten quotes from The Big 0  Book in the Head and I will buy many beads for the bosoms of fair  Garth Brooks is a GOD!!  
FOR SALE: SMC approved loft.  swan song:  southern women. Smoke the pipe  random quotes .....  
Found: 9:15am 2-24·92 in front of  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  $80 call 284-5174.  10) It was the best of times ...  while we are away.  "You don't really smoke crack do  
Morrissey, a pair of blue eyeglasses  219-291-7153.  9) I'm in charge here, oci!er (hie).  you?"  
in a blue cloth case. To claim call x2067  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  TICKETS  8) I'm calling that b-·h from the Snite when we get up there.  Leeks in the Night  "you look like my wife ..... "  
AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER  7) Monica, you better come up here,  $100 bounty on the head of marc  "Shake, Shake, Earthquake"  
SUBLET · CHEAP FOR FOUR  the system crashed.  demanigold, chief punk on that  "How dare he act so damn normal  
LOST  STUDENTS!! DO NOT PAY  1-way ticket, South Bend to Dallas.  6) My name's Alison Cocks. Really.  alumni team  towards me?!"  
One bright blue felt  EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND  3/6/92, 5pm. American: SB-Chi­ 5) Woo Woo! I'm outta this stinking,  "And you think I walk around here  
"Gambler's" hat with a 1/2 inch navy  PUT UP WITH RULES-HANG BY  DFW.  filthy, festering filthhole.  Why would a big Toyota truck want  like I own the place!"  
blue ribbon/bow. Sentimental value.  THE POOL!!!I CALL X3414­ $50 call Chris x1658  4) Call John Rock. We're having  to flash a cute CRX???  
Please call Teresa, x2899 if found. LOST: GOLD CAMEO RING. IT'S VERY OLD & THE FACE IS SMOOTHED OVER. MY  MESSAGE. ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY  PERSONAL  technical difficulties. 3) Mike, this is Jim Vogl. You better come up. 2) Let's trash the accent desk! 1) Blue Mary 40-we'll be right  Kelley, SMILE! Did Howie make tun of you?  GUARANTEED ALASKA JOBS ex. $t OOO.Nik. room, boord & airlare. New. '92· 80 pg. gurde reveals most current prospecrs in: Fishing, Oil, Alaska Tsachet Placemenl, Degreed jobs. Conslrucl'on. &much more.  
GRANDMA'S & DEEP  SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9·  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  there...as soon as we're done  I need a ride to Texas;will help  Weel<ly inlo available. Slaleliscmsed agency  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE! LOST BETWEEN SMC BUS STOP & HAYES-HEALY@ NO. CALL  MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT 259·7801 OR 255·5852.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  breaking up this party at the Observer.  drive/gas. Moira x4190 everything i know may be wrong,  Alaskemp Guarantee: Secure Alaska job, or 100"1. relund. Send $9.95 • $3 S&H Jo: Alaskemp, Box 1236-X, Co•vallis, OR 97339.  
283·5319.  6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR  Good bye, everyone. We'll miss  but since i know that i'm wrong, i  
CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272·6306  DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO  you. NOT. Remember ...  guess i'm wrong about being  
FOUND: LADY'S WATCH NEAR BOOKSTORE. CALL SHIRLEY 239·5303 TO IDENTIFY.  Student rental for '92·93. 4 bdrms & loft. Avail. Aug. 232· 4964.  O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM ND BUS SHELTER. 674·7000 OR 1-800·833-5555.  "We fought ND Security and ND Security won!" hey nif  wrong.. there's nothing worse than to see a whole family torn apart by  RESERVE YOUR 2,4,0R 5 BEDROOM HOUSE FOR 92-93 NOW! SAFE AREA,  
LOST · One black leather jacket  something as simple as a pack of  PRIVATE PARKING WT,  
with wallet and car keys. Lost at The Commons Tuesday night. Information? Call 234-2779.  FOR RENT "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 259·7801 OR 255-5852"  "Let's go Greyhound on spring break. 50% off anywhere we go. Restrictions apply. Call 287-6541"  Kristin Lynch, Carla and I have learned a  wild dogs Hi Wubbiel  VOLLEYBALL & BASKETBALL COURT,  
multitude of new dances, you are  SEMI-FURNISHED. CALL  
LOST: Brown framed glasses in a red case, if found please  Avon $$$ Sales. New Commission earnings selling at work/home. 232·  now officially way behind. Never tear though cause once youdown  SADD/BACCHUS wishes you  234-1886 TODAY  
call 284·5256  COLLEGE PARK CONDO ·  0014.  half a pail, you'll catch right up I  a safe and fun spring break I  
Ironwood & Bulla · 2 B/R -2 Bath ·  Liza  Register Wednesday &  
Lost: I lost 3 id cards last week with the names of:  available immediately· call 287­0534 or 271-9268.  SPRING BREAK · S. PADRE ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON  Thursday in the dining halls for a drawing for a free car  BIG LEAGUE PARTY  
Todd Ogburn Blane Shearon  SHARE 2·BR HOME w/ M Grad  RESORT"BEACHFRONT PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR,  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate,  and other great prizes. ******* *****************  PANAMA CITY!  
Kevin Feerick If found, PLEASE call Brian at  Stdnt Garden, appls, 2-car gar. A vi Apr 1 (No joke!) 288-3878  SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY OWNER. 1·212-472·1414.  summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  Dear L. W. Have a great week.  LAST CHANCE FOR  
x3537 and I will identity them. [WANTED  ]  HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4·8 BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287­4989.  We are Strong ! IT PUTS THE LOTION ON IT'S  Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1·800-878-3696. The Lizard King lives on I Down with the Crustaceans!  We'll see you Friday. Love, Spook and Sunny. RENELLE and KRISTY, CHRIS is weak in pool, but bill is weaker.  $129 Beachfront Condo/Hotel 8 DA YS/7 NIGHTS FREE PARTIES!  
SKIN. IT PUTS THE LOTION IN  call 1-800-234-7007 NOW!  
FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM Fraternities, sororities, student clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one  Student rental, large 6-8 bdrm. avail. Aug. 288-6740.  THE BASKET I'M PULLING OUT OF HERE TO  Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN  SOUTH PADRE ISLAND CONDOMINIUMS FOR SPRING BREAK. $25 PER PERSON PER  VISA/MASTERCARD, DISCOVER 24 NRS.  
week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus yourself. And a FREE WATCH just for calling 1-800·932·0528. Ext. 65.  FOR SALE  WIN... I'M GOIN TO GRACELAND!  raft, you are missed.  NIGHT/ OFF BEACH. $29 PER PERSON PER NIGHT/ BEACHFRONT. 1-800-422-82 I 2.  DON'T MISS OOT!  

Monday, March 2, 1992 page 13 


TRANSACTIONS 

BASEBALL 
American League 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Acquired Alan Mills, p~cher, from lhe New YOfk Yankees for two minor leaguers to be named later. Designated Franci~ de Ia Rosa. p~cher, for assignment. Agreed to lerms with Chris Holies, catcher, on a one-year contract. 
BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed lo terms w~h Peter Hoy, pitcher, and JeH McNeely, outfielder, on one­
2/23 2116 Team Points 
year contracts. CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms w~h(1) Duke [13] 23-2 
420 

Scott Lewis and Tim Fortugno, pitchers; Ron 2 (3) Indiana [2] 21-4 
Tingley, catcher; Bobby Rose and Gary DiSarcina, 3 (2) Kansas [1] 21-3 
397 

infielders; and Jim Edmonds, outfielder, on one­4 (5) Arizona 22-4 
377 

year contracts.
364 5 (4) UCLA 21-4 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to terms with
342 6 (7) Ohio State 19-5 
Robin Ventura, third baseman, on a two-year
331 

contract and Brian Drahman, Ramon Garcia,7 (9) Arkansas 22-6 
312 

Roberto Hernandez, Chris Howard, Greg8 (13) UNLV 25-2 
284 

Perschke, Johnny RuHin, Rich Scheid and Steve 9 (6) Missouri 20-5 
Wapnick, p~chers; Matt Marullo, catcher; and 10 (12) Kentucky 22-5 
279 

Derek Loo, outfielder, on one-year contracts. tie (14) usc 20-4 
262 

KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with 12 (8) North Carolina 18-7 
262 

Tim Spahr, catcher, on a one-year contract.
223 tie (10) Oklahoma State 22-5 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms w~h
223 

Mike Fetters. pitcher, on a one-year contract.
14 (11) Michigan State 18-6 
298 

OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terms with15 (16) Michigan 17-7 
137 

Dann Howitt, outfielder-first baseman, and Bruce 16 (18) Florida State 19-8 
Wahon, Steve Chitren and Kevin Campbell, 17 (20) Cincinnati 22-4 
134 

pitchers, on one-year contracts. tie (23) Georgetown 18-7 
128 

SEATILE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with 19 (15) Alabama 21-7 
128 

Ornar Vizquel and Rich Amaral, on one-year
122 
contracts.

20 (17) Tulane 19-5 
107 21 (--) DePaul 19-6 
86 22 (19) Syracuse 18-7 
84 23 (--) Nebraska 18-7 
60 
IRISH TENNIS 

24 (21) Connecticut 17-8 
50 25 (24) 
Seton Hall 18-7 46 NO MEN'S TENNIS VS. NORTHWESTERN EVANSTON, ILL NOTRE DAME 7 
Others recevlng votes: LSU 30, St. John's 29, Oklahoma 22, 
NORTHWESTERN 2 Louisville 13, Memphis State 11, Massachusetts 9, Wis-Green Bay 7, Notre Dame 6, SW Missouri State 6, Texas 6, Georgia 
Sing lee 

1. Andy Zurchur (ND) del. Gloria Payes (NU) 4-6, 7-6,6-2 Tech 5, Princeton 5, Providence 3, Ball State 2, Iowa State 2, 
Arizona State 1, Stanford 1, UTEP 1. 
2. 
Will Fosyth (NO) del. Todd Occomy (NU) 6-1,6-2 

3. 
Mark Eisen (NU) del. Chuck Coleman (ND) 6-7, 


7-5, 6-1 Schools PartlclpaHng: Alabama, Arizona, Brigham Young, 
4. Mark Schmidt (ND) def. GeoH Young (NU) 6-3, Colorado, Columbia, Florida State, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, 
6-2 Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon State, Texas, USC, VIrginia, West 
5. 
Chris Wo~alik (ND) del. Erik Blakeman (NU) 6-4, 6-2 

6. 
Ron Rosas (NO) del. Anthony Roy (NU) 6-4. 6-1


~V-irgi-nia,W_i~-nsi_n·----------~ 
Doublee 

1. Glora Payes/Mark Elsen (NU) del AndyThe Obserwr/Bet h Duane 
Zurchur/Will Forsyth (ND) 6-2, 6-3 

2. 
Mark SchmidVChris Wojtalik (ND) def. Todd Occomy!Tim Junker (NU) 6-1,6-3 

3. 
Tommy North!Tad Echert (NO) def. Erik Blakeman!Anthony Roy (NU) 6-2, 7-5 


NO WOMEN"S TENNIS VS. KENTUCKY ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
SAINT JOHN'S (17-8) H · Sealy 9-18 34 21, Scott4-7 4-4 12, Foster 3-5 1-3 ~~•me-jNo~: Dame ~5, Saint John's 34. Three-KENTUCKY 7 7, Buchanan 3-9 1-2 10, Sproling 2-10 0-0 4, Cain Buch1noas; Spnt John 8 3-15 (Sealy 0-1, NOTRE DAME 2 
NOTRE DAME 79, ST. JOHN'S 70 
7
2-4 0-0 4, Green 3-4 1-1 7, Brown 0-1 0-0 o, Da an ' rollng 0-6, Brown 0-1), Notre Middleton 1-2 3-4 5. Totals 27-60 13-18 70. Fo~4 "9/~nettJ l-4, Sweet 2-3, Cozen t-20. Singles NOTRE DAME (13-12) ou-nt ohn's_ 1 (Sealy), Notre Dame 1 1. Susan Klingenberg (K) d. Melissa Harris (NO) 6­Ellis 7-13 16-16 30. Taylor t-3 0-0 2. Tower t-2 t-2 ~o':er). Rebounds--Saint John's 29 (Sealy 5), 2,6-t 
3. Bennett7-13 6-8 21, Sweet 6-17 2-416, Boyer (Buch Dame 40N(Eihs IS). AssiSts--Samt John's 10 2. Lora Sunile (K) d. Laura Schwab (ND) 4-6. 7-5, 0-0 2-2 2 Justice 0-0 0-0 0 Cozen 2-4 0-1 5 Joe 1 .an~n 4), otre Dame 11 (BennettS). Total 6-4 Ross 0-0'0-0 0, Jon Ross r).o 0-0 o. Totals 24-52 ;ttuls-d·Saint John's 24, Notre Dame 18. 3. Christy Faustman (NO) d. Nicky Wangsgard (K)
27-33 79. en ance--11.418 
4-6, 6-3, 7-5 

4. Lisa Tholen (ND) d. Marla Sanstrl (K) t-6, 6-1,7­
~~~~~~§~m§~~~§~S~§~m~m~~~§~~;~~~S. susan Bart~(K) Terri v~ale (ND) 6-3.6-2
Chris Yario (K) d. Ann Bradshaw (ND) 7-6, 6-3
l 
Doublee 

1. 
Klinenberg/Antionette Grech (K) d. Faustman!Tholen (ND) 6-2, 7-5 

2. 
Wangsgard!Yario (K) d. Eniko Bende/Bradshaw (ND) 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 

3. 
BartVSuttile (K) d. Harris/Schwab (ND) 6-2, 2-6,


Happy 
6-3 

Birthday ScoW"I 
Love, LDS 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUst one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 


• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 



273-18bfJ 
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 

227 US :JI NORTH 
• Constantly Updated Materials Across from Knights Inn Suite 210 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
National league 
NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terms w~h Todd Hundley, catcher, and Steve Rosenberg. Pete Schourek and Doug Simons. p~chers, on one-year contracts. 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms with Mike Hartley, p~cher, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National B..ketball Aaaoclatlon 
LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS-Placed Doc Rivers, guard, on the injured list. Continental Basketball Aaaociation 
ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Damari Riddick, lorward. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Recalled Brad Berry, forward, from Kalamazoo of the International Hockey League. Purchased Steve Martinson, lorward, from San Diego of the International Hockey League. 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Signed Marty Mcinnis, center, to a four-year contract. ST. LOUIS BLUES-Signed Curt Giles, defenseman. 
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Traded Mark Ferner. defenseman, to the Toronto Maple Leafs lor a 12th round pick in the 1992. entry drah. Signed Jason Woolley, defenseman. 
COLLEGE BASEBALL POLLS 
COLLEGE BASEBALL'S TOP 25 (Feb. 17) BASEBALL AMERICA'S TOP 25 (Feb. 24)1. Witchita State 0-0 1. Florida 10-2 
2. Miami 6-0 
2. Witchita St. 2-0 3. Florida 8-t 
3. Miami 7-2 4. Mississippi 0-0 
4. Florida St. 9-2 
5. Texas 8-1 5. Stanford 11-5 
6. Pepperdine 5-1 
6. Peppardine 8-3 7. CS-Fullerton 5-1 
7. Oklahoma St. 5-1 
8. Florida St. 6-1 
8. Mississippi St. 0-0 9. Stanford 7-3 
9. Texas 10-2 10. Hawaii 6-3 
10. CS-Fulierton 7-3 
11. Oklahoma St. 3-1 11.NOTREDAME 0-0 
12. Creighton 0-0 12. LSU 6-1 
13. Arizona St. 8-1 13. Long Beach St. 6-5 14. LSU 3-0 14. South Carolina 5-0 
15. 
Ohio St. 3-1 


15. Arizona St. 10-3 
16. 
Long Beach St. 3-4 

16. Clemson 6-0 
17. 
South Alabama 2-0 

17. No. Carolina St. 9-0 
18. California 8-4 18. Arizona 10-7 
19. NOTRE DAME 0-0 19. Hawaii 7-5 
20. Minnesota 2-1 20. Ohio Slate 3-1 
21. Arizona 9-5 21. Georgia Tech 8-1 
22. 
No. Carolina St. 6-0 


22. Indiana St. 0-0 
23. 
SW Louisiana St. 2-0 

23. Southern Cal 7-6 
24. Clemson 2-0 24. Texas A&M 9-4 
25. South Carolina 3-0 25. Georgia 4-1 
~-----------------------------, 
62nd Annual Bengal Bouts Finals 
~bruary 29, 1992 
1~ Pound Division 
~ 
Brian "Just Want the Trophy" Brophy {G) Unan. Dec. Timothy "Wallin" Phelan {B) 
140 Pound Division Jeff "The Disturber" Gerber {B) won the contest in a walkover Paul "Primetime" Ferguson {G) 
145 Pound Division Renzy "Montana Mosey" Smith {G) Unan. Dec. Lou "The Sicilian Pavilion" Hall {B) 
150 Pound Division Erik "The Mosquito" Milito {B) Unan. Dec. Fred "Free -Fallin" Sharkey {G) 
155 Pound Division Shane "The Hit-Man" Hitzman {B) Unan. Dec. Jeffrey "Better Pray to' Goddard {G) 
160 Pound Division Colin "Southern Comfort" Mullaney {B) Unan. Dec. Dave "The Golden Shower" Dauenhauer {G) 
165 Pound Division Scott "The Wild Irishman" Mulcahy {B) Split Dec. Matt Raulston {G) 
170 Pound Division Kerry "The Weasel" Wate {B) Unan. Dec. John Rapchinski {G) Wate is the sixth four-time champion in the history of the Bengal Bouts 
180 Pound Division Mike "The Beast" Trainor {B) RSC@ 1:58 round 1 Greg "Chug'em and Slug'em" Keary {G) Trainor is the seventh four-time champion in the history of the Bengal Bouts. This is the first time in Notre Dame History that there have been two seniors capturing four year championships in the same year. 
Heavyweights Matt "The Chunkster" Carr {B) Split Dec. Mike O'Neill {G) 
The Observer/Beth Duane 

~'--Jj~c~----,
.?1 urue • ~ , ./reeK~ 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
-
-... 

-
-. 

page 14 The Observer Monday, March 2, 1992 
J q 
l 


Rough and Tumble The Observer/John Rock 
It was a harsh welcome for St. Bonaventure's lacrosse team this weekend as the Irish cruised to a 23-4 victory. Story on page 20. 
Ohio State rolls over #12 Spartans by 24 points 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­Michigan State is used to hus­tling in the second half and pulling off big come-from-be­hind wins, but when the Spartans hit the rock-solid Ohio State defense. hustle wasn't enough. 
In beating No. 12 Michigan State 78-54 on Saturday, eighth-ranked Ohio State got 27 points off 18 Spartan turnovers. 
"We were always in their lanes. and pressuring their passes," said Chris Jent, who scored 19 points for the Buckeyes. "If we do our job on defense. and get hands on their passes, we can really disrupt their offense." 
.~· 
The Observer is looking lor the paid positions of 
SMC DAY EDITORS 
Submit I page resume to Anna Marie Tabor Rm 406 
-McCandless or leave at the front desk of McCandless by Monday at s:oo pm. 
.­
Chicago clobbers TrailBlazers, 111-91 
CHICAGO (AP) -It was a competitive flop. 
"I don't think that's what NBC had in mind when it scheduled the game," Chicago coach Phil Jackson said Sunday after the Bulls romped to a 111-91 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers in a game between two of the NBA's best teams. 
"Our defense was terrific and their shooting was poor. We just caught them on an off day." 
Michael Jordan with 31 points and Scottie Pippen with 20 led the rout. 

"They contributed to our suc­cess by turning over the ball," Jordan said of Portland's 23 turnovers. "You guys made it like it was the NBA finals and that gave us more incentive. We were very aggressive." 
"It was very discouraging the way we played," said Clyde Drexler, who led Portland with 26 points. "It's very disappoint­ing to go on national TV with a possible championship matchup and not play better than we did." 
Were the Bulls sending a message to the rest of the league? 
"Hopefully it was a state­ment," Pippen said. "But it wasn't that easy. We took an early lead and they came back. The intensity was there. We took advantage of the turnovers and that was the difference." 
Portland coach Rick Adelman said things would be different in the playoffs. 
"We wanted to come here and play well," Adelman said. ''I'm disappointed we didn't do bet­ter but come April and May, it's a totally new and different sit­uation." 
It was the second and last regular-season meeting be­tween the teams. The Bulls also won at Portland 116-114 in double overtime. 
The Bulls outscored Portland 35-17 in the second quarter, then blew it open with an 11-2 run early in the third quarter. 


The Spartans outscored the Buckeyes 8-2 over the next two minutes, cutting the margin to two. But Jimmy Jackson, who finished with 20 points, hit a jump-hook for Ohio State and the Buckeyes' full-court press then forced three Michigan State turnovers to take a 59-49 lead. 
Ohio State cruised from there, leading by as many as 21 points down the stretch. 
"We got an All-American ef­fort from Jimmy Jackson, but you win games with defense," Ohio State coach Randy Ayers said. 
The Buckeyes used a 10-2 run to take a 22-14 lead in the 
Weather wreaks havoc with lditarod dogsled race 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) -Bitter winds and subzero temperatures Sunday slowed mushers racing in the 1992 Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race to Nome. 
Dozens of mushers and teams bunched up at the fifth checkpoint at Skwentna, 149 miles into the 1,159-mile route. The trail to Finger Lake, 45 miles away, had blown and drifted over and mushers were waiting for snowmobile teams to pack it again. 
"It's not going to be a 10­day race this year," said defending champion Rick Swenson, the only five-time winner of the race. Mushers had hoped conditions would allow the winner to beat the 1990 record of 11 days, one hour and 53 minutes. 
Last year's second-place Iditarod finisher, Martin Buser, was first out of Skwentna at 2:42 p.m. Sunday. He was followed 

shortly afterward by Dee Dee Jonrowe, Jeff King, four-time winner Susan Butcher and Swenson. 
But by late afternoon only eight mushers had left Skwentna. Forty-one others had reached the stopover. 
Early Sunday morning, a son of the man known as the "Father of the Iditarod" led the marathon into Skwentna to win a $25,000 pickup truck. 
Raymie Redington, whose father co-founded the race, reached Skwentna 14 minutes ahead of his nearest opponent. He declared he would take his one-time 24­hour rest stop there. 
Swenson had arrived in Skwentna in fifth place. His ex-wife. Kathy Swenson, received many of the couple's best racing dogs in a divorce settlement last year. By late Sunday, she was in 50th place. 
Money
for 

Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR, fixed rate 

• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify 


No co-signer is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
~ 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 • Independent of the University 
The Bulls led 16-7, but two baskets by Drexler and a 3­pointer and two free throws by Terry Porter gave the Trail Blazers their first lead 18-16. Portland led 23-20 after the first quarter. 
Then Portland went into a second-quarter funk, going 6:14 without a basket. A 3-pointer by Craig Hodges. tied it at 25, as the Bulls went on a 13-3 run to take a 35-28 lead. During that stretch, the Trail Blazers missed four straight shots and had four turnovers. 
Portland was guilty of eight turnovers in the period when the Bulls took a 55-40 lead. 
Pippen and Jordan scored all the points in the 11-2 run that opened the third period and the Bulls opened the first of several 24-point leads at 66-42. 
Dr!lxler scored the last nine points for Portland in the third period, which ended with Chicago leading 84-6 7. 
Baseball team wins Academy tournament 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team, currently ranked 11th by Baseball America, claimed the title at the Third Annual Service Academies Classic in Millington, Tennessee. 
The Irish swept four games this past week, culminating their trip with a 10-0 win over Memphis State in the title game. Pat Leahy pitched a one-hit complete-game shutout as the Irish offense exploded. 
On the trip, the Irish (4-0) also recorded wins over Army, Navy, and Air Force. Full cov­erage will appear in The Observer on Tuesday as the Irish prepare for next week­end's contests against Louisville, Kentucky, and Indiana, all at Louisville. 
Please Recycle 
The Observer 

Monday, March 2, 1992 

The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 
Renzy "Montana Mosey" Smith (gold trunks)lands ablow to th_e chin of ~~u "T_he Sicilian :avillio~" Hall in the finals of the 145-lb division at Bengal Bouts on Saturday. Smith, the underdog, scored a unammous dec1s1on v1ctory to cla1m the t1tle. 
Direct hit! 
So Ellis heeded his brother's about two or three steps to the advice. After fine-tuning the right, but I came back to the
Ellis 
shot before and after practices center today and dropped my 
last week, Ellis couldn't miss on left foot back a little." continued from page 20 Saturday. It's a precise process that foul line," said Ellis. "That "There's a nail on the foul line Irish coach John MacLeod takes worked for a while, but it that I used to line up my feet," little credit for implementing. started to tail off lately." said Ellis. "I usRrl to line up "I didn't have anything to do 
.-------------------------------.. 
Win Free Books When You Travel with Little Professor 
Bring us a photo of yourself (with the Little Professor logo) while on vacation and we'll give you a free gift certificate. The farther away you travel, the greater the value of the certificate. 
with Phonz changing his shot," said MacLeod. "He had been shooting off-line, so instead of keeping both feet parallel, he dropped one back to keep the pressure off his upper body during the shot. He put in a lot of extra time." 
Although Ellis only had one 
first-half field goal, the Irish 
continually pounded the ball in­
side to Ellis, who constantly 
picked up the fouls. 
After a 35-34 Irish halftime 
lead, Ellis lumbered over and 
around Redman forward 
Shawnelle Scott (6-11, 240), 
pounding the lane on six-of­
eight shooting. 
"Ellis had a marvelous per­
formance-as good as we've 
seen all year," said Redmen 
coach Lou Carnesecca. "We 
came in with our hands up and 
they knocked 'em down." 
After staking his claim to the 
basket and drawing a swarm of 
defenders, Ellis finished with 
30 points, second only to a 32­
point performance last year 
against West Virginia. 
When it was all over, he 
raised his hands to show how 
he felt about beating yet an­
other Top 20 team in Notre 
Dame's quest for an NCAA bid. 
page 15 

#1 Duke beats UCLA, 75-65 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Top­ranked Duke outscored fourth­ranked UCLA 14-4 over the game's final three minutes Sunday to win the much­anticipated, less-than expected showdown 75-65. 
Duke (23-2) will retain the top spot after handing fourth­ranked UCLA (21-4) their third straight loss. 
Christian Laettner, who led all scorers with 29 points, made two free throws with 
3:06 to play to bring Duke into the game's final tie, 61-61. 
That was it for the Bruins as they managed to make two o seven shots while committing three turnovers in the final three minutes. 
Laettner broke that last tie with a 3-pointer with 2:32 left. Antonio Lang scored on a long layup after a UCLA turnover to make it a five-point lead for the defending national champions. 
Don MacLean brought UCLA within three with 1:56left on a driving jumper, but Duke scored the next six points for a 72-63 lead with 57 seconds to play. 
The game was the most anticipated of the season as UCLA had never been below its current ranking during the regular season and had been No. 2 for most of the year. 
Brian Davis added 19 points for Duke, while Bobby Hurley, playing just his second game since returning from a broken foot, had 11 including two big 3-pointers in the final seven minutes. 
Tracy Murray led UCLA with 22 points, while MacLean had 20. 
The first half was one o survival for both teams as Duke finished with better shooting percentage, 33.3 (7­for-21). The Bruins managed to make just 11 of 41 attempts 
(26.8 perce:p.t) and the only reason they had a 29-24 halftime lead was that the Blue Devils committed 14 turnovers in the opening 20 minutes, one less than they average for a game all season. 
Both teams played impressive defense, something UCLA has not been known for, but the Bruins stayed with the Blue Devils for 37 minutes. 
American Heart Association 
We're fighting for your life 


ATTENTION JUNIORS JPW PICTURES CAN BE ORDERED TODAY (MARCH 2) AND TUESDAY [MARCH 3) IN ROOM 108 LAFORTUNE THIS WILL BE THE ONLY OPPORTUNITY TO ORDER THESE PICTURES Questions? call Marianne at X4174 
-

.-. 
-

,..-------------­
page 16 The Observer Monday, March 2, 1992 
Seton Hall pounds UConn 77-64 Contest sees teams heading in opposite directions 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (API -Two things seem to bring out the best in Seton Hall's Bryan Caver -national television and a seat on the bench. 
Caver isn't crazy about the bench part, but that's where he was at the start of the Pirates' game Sunday against No. 24 Connecticut. The Huskies wish he would've stayed there. 
Caver, out of the starting lineup for what was believed to be a curfew violation, scored 11 straight second-half points and led Seton Hall to a 77-64 victory over the slumping Huskies. 
Seton Hall (18-7, 10-6 Big East) has won nine of 11, in­cluding six against ranked teams. Two of those victories are against the Huskies (17 -8, 8-8), who have lost seven of eight. 
"I think anyone who is used to starting and doesn't, you pretty much want to prove to the coach you belong out there," the sophomore point guard said after finishing with 18 points, five assists and one turnover in 31 minutes. "I was trying to produce as much as I could defensively and wound up scoring." 
Seton Hall coach P.J. Carlesimo termed Caver's viola­tion of team rules as one "so 
minor that I would be embar­rassed to tell you what it was." Caver deferred to his coach when asked about it. 
''I'm just Bryan," said Caver, who on Wednesday scored a game-winning layup in overtime to give the Pirates a 73-71 victory over No. 18 Georgetown. "I talked to him and I knew what would happen. I waited to come in and contribute." 
The big contribution came midway through the second half when UConn closed to 45-41 on a short bank shot by Donyell Marshall. 
Over the next 3:39, Caver outscored the Huskies 11-6. He started the spurt with a 15-foot jumper, mixed in seven of eight free throw attempts and made a driving layup to put the Pirates ahead 56-47. 
"I wasn't looking to take over," Caver said. "A lot of op­portunities occurred because they were overplaying the passes to the outside and that was opening up the lane for the drive. I was playing smart ... " 
UConn made it 58-50 before Jerry Walker capped a six-point Seton Hall run with two free throws and a rebound follow. The Huskies never got within 10 points after that. 
"Over the last 10 minutes they 

Sports Briefs 
•The 
Observer sports department will hold a meeting for anyone interested in writing, on Sunday at 9 p.m. at the Observer, 314 LaFortune. If you are interested and cannot make the meeting or want more information call Mike Scrudato at the Observer office at 239-7471. 

•The 
Rowing Club is looking for coxswains for both the varsity and novice teams. Interested individuals should call PotH at 271-8466. 

•The 
ski team now has three spots open for its spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone interested should call Chris Woods at 277-7089. 

•Final 
sign-ups for Bookstore Basketball Tournament will be held Wednesday. Thursday. and next Monday from 4 to 7 


p.m. in the S.U.B. office, on second floor LaFortune. This is the last chance to sign up. 
•Attention 
ND/SMC Sailing Club: We will be unloading the boats for our spring season this Sunday at 11:30 a.m. Attendance is mandatory. Anyone interested in joining the is welcome to come and help out. Any questions, call Adrienne Briggs at 284-5085. 

•The 
Spring Eight-Ball Tournament will be held at the Gorch Game Room in LaFortune tomorrow, March 3rd, and Wednesday, March 4th at 7:00 p.m. Anyone interested please stop by the Gorch. Entry fee is $3.00. Today is the last day for sign ups. 

•The 
Notre Dame women's basketball team will be in action tonight at LSU. The Irish (11-14), haye won five straight games and have clinched at least the second seed in the upcoming MCC tournament. dil' 


took over the game and we were unable to contain them," UConn coach Jim Calhoun said. "Caver did a great job of pene­trating and taking the ball to the basket ... He was running the show so you have to give him credit." 

Caver was two points shy of his career high, which came in the opening game of the season against St. Francis, the only other game this season he didn't start. His third best ca­reer game was 15 points last season in a nationally televised win over Oklahoma. 
Walker and Gordon Winchester each added 14 and Terry Dehere had 13. Danny Hurley, who started in place of Caver, had two points. 
Chris Smith topped UConn with 25 points. Scott Burrell had 16 and Marshall added 11. 
Seton Hall never trailed after the opening minutes. Despite shooting 28.6 percent from the field in the first 20 minutes, the Huskies trailed 29-26. They pulled to 36-35 on a 3-pointer by Smith with 16:10 left. UConn had chances to go ahead, but Seton Hall responded with an eight-point, including a 3­pointer by Arturas Karnishovas. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
While SUB has poured rela­tively enormous amounts of money into drawing and pro­moting the Cult (who define the word sellout) and Howie Mandel (who hasn't been the same since St. Elsewhere), Bookstore is invisible. Ultimately, the coordinators of the tournament have shirked their responsibilities and passed the buck to the students of Notre Dame. 
So take a dollar from four friends, and one from your own pocket, and head to the SUB of­fice this afternoon to save Bookstore Basketball from ob­scurity. 
Bookstore sign-ups will take place at the SUB office on the second floor of Lafortune from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. today. 
Give to the United Way 

AftENTION SOPHOMORES!!! 
Looking for a great leadership opportunity? Want to be a part of the best Jr. Class event? Applications are now available for the 
1993 JUNIOR PAREN,.S 
WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON
-
at the LaFortune Info Desk. Deadline: Fri., March 6. 
r • 
Experience not necessary -just enthusiasm! 

Serious Hang Time ... 
The Observer/John Rock Senior Daimon Sweet caught fire in the second half against St. John's, scoring two of his 12 points on this floating jumper. 
The Obseruer 
has positions auailable for 
Day Editor 
Contact 'colleen Knight at 239-7471 or 283-4900 by Thursday 3/4 Must be auailable Wednesday and Thursday Afternoons 

Monday, March 2, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Fencers shine over weekend 
By JONATHAN JENSEN got only one more top-8 fin­Sports Writer isher, as junior Kathleen Vogt took seventh. Mary Westrick, 
In a tune-up for the Midwest Kelly Haugh and ninth-seeded Regional Championships, senior Rachel Haugh all lost their first David Calderhead and the Irish round bouts. 
fencers shined at the Midwest "Heidi [Piper] will need their I Intercollegiate Open, held at the support next week," noted I Joyce ACC this weekend. DeCicco. I 
j
Calderhead, a native of The sabre team had three fi­
1
Wandsford, England, took the nalists, but senior Ed Baguer 
I
lone Irish gold medal by beating ended up on the losing end of a I a stubborn Harald Bauder of quarterfinal match with I Wayne State in the last match Taliaferro, and he finished sev­I of the day, 5-6, 5-3. 5-3. enth. Chris Baguer also lost to i 
"He's from West Germany and Taliaferro, this time in the I I remember fencing him before semis, and he ended up fourth. I in Europe," said Calderhead. The men's foil competition l "This was my goal today so of was highlighted by a bronze for j course I am happy about it." junior captain Jeff Piper, but 
I Another top finisher was de­2nd-seeded Ed Lefevre faltered j 
fending national champion and did not qualify for the final Heidi Piper, who took the silver eight. Senior Mike Trisko, who in the women's foil division, as was seeded third, finished in did All-American James fifth place. Taliaferro in the men's sabre It was a good performance J field. overall for the Irish, as they 
As for the rest of the epee won all of the team titles except squad, they amazingly qualified for the sabre division, where four of the eight finalists. Some they finished second to Ohio surprising Irish performances State.· 
were 13th-seeded Greg Next week in East Lansing, Wozniak's fourth-place finish, Notre Dame will find out how freshman Per Johnsson, fifth, many of their top fencers will and 17th-seed Ben Finley be headed to the NCAA's and if finishing sixth. they have a shot at the title that 
"The eppeists' performances eluded them in last year's third­were encouraging," said Irish place finish. coach Mike DeCicco, "And this "Last year we almost won it 
field is a preview of the NCAA all by getting all the silvers," finals." said DeCicco. "I would not be On the women's side, the Irish surprised if we can do that The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing squads fared well in the Midwest Intercollegiate Open this again this year." weekend. The Irish will be hosting the 1992 NCAA championships on March 20-24. 
score points on the much Hall's chin solidifying his win. bout, but significant occur­titles. quicker Hall. The two boxers embraced as rences in the remaining bouts Eric Milito (150-lb) beat Fred
Bengals 
the final bell sounded. The kept the crowd attentive. Sharkey to capture his third As the bell sounded to start crowd jumped to their feet and Kerry Wate defeated John Bengal Bout crown and Colin
continued from page 20 
the third, both boxers clearly remained there until the two Rapchinski in the 170-lb final Mullaney, last year's 155-lb ti­whole bout," said Hall. showed signs of fatigue. Their boxers left the ring. and Mike Trainor topped Greg tleist, claimed the crown in the 
Hall did not show that he was was no bounce left in Hall's Hall blamed himself for the Keary for the 180-lb champi­160-lb division. hurt to start the second, taking black Pony's, his only offense loss, but also applauded Smith's onship. Both earned their an early advantage until Smith was a a slow developing efforts. fourth Bengal Bout titles. Other winners included Shane landed consecutive combina­straight left, which he landed to "I didn't come out as aggres­Ritzman (155-lb), Matt Raulston tions flooring him for the sec­start the round. Smith appeared sive as usual, and I took him for The two seniors became the (165-lb), and Matt Carr ond time. Smith appeared to be equally tired, but the powerful granted," said Hall. "He fought sixth and seventh four-time (heavyweight). Jeff Gerber won doing more damage with each uppercut which started the well." champion, marking the first the 140-lb title by forfeit as his punch he tanded, using his scoring for him in the first The remaining bouts paled in time two boxers from the same opponent, Paul Ferguson, height and reach advantages to round, again connected on comparison to the Smith/Hall class had won four consecutive withdrew due to an injury. 
start. The St. John's star scored only two points the rest of the 
Hoops 
half. In the second half, Daimon
continued from page 20 
Sweet began heating up for the formance, the best that anyone Irish. After being held to only
has had against us all year," 
four points in the first 20 min­
said St. John's coach Lou 
utes, Sweet scored seven points
Carnesecca. "Notre Dame in the first five minutes as 
played very well today. They Notre Dame maintained its one­
are a very strong club. 
point halftime advantage. 
"Look at their schedule. I 
Sealy then picked up three 

don't know of any team that 
I 
quick fouls in succession iind could have played it and not 
had to leave the game with
IF YOU LIVE ON ~ 
come out wounded. I think 12:58 remaining. With Sealy
they're definitely a tournament saddled on the bench with four 
team." 
fouls, the Irish opened up some Still, it was all Redmen early 
breathing room, pushing the
CAMPUS AND YOU 
in the game, as they pulled out lead out to five, 60-55. 
early 17-9 lead. All­
to an Sealy returned to the game
American candidate Malik 
with 9:20 left and immediately
ARE MOVING OFF 
Sealy scored eight points during converted on a three-point play · that stretch, as the Irish hit only to cut the Irish lead to two, 60­three of their first 11 shots and 58. But the Redmen were un­
committed four turnovers in the able to get any closer, as Notre
CAMPUS NEXT 
first eight minutes of the game. 
Dame, keyed by Ellis' play in­Senior Elmer Bennett kept side, went on a 7-2 spurt to Notre Dame close early, scoring build the lead back to seven,nine of its first 13 points. But it 67-60, with 6:23 remaining. 
SEMESTER, YOU 
was the insertion of sophomore The team was able to hold 
Carl Cozen with nine minutes that margin as the clock ticked 
left in the half and the Irish away on Notre Dame's sixth 
trailing by six that sparked the
MAY VOTE FOR 
victory this season in 11 tries team. 
against ranked opponents with 
He immediately hit a three­a 12th on the waypointer that ignited the crowd. 
Saturday at DePaul. 
He made a nice backdoor cut to 
OFF-CAMPUS 
next 
. Before that, however, Xavier 

the basket, converting a rolls into South Bend for a 
beautiful feed from Bennett. He Tuesday night meeting in Notre dove for loose balls, hustled for Dame's home fmale. If the Irish
CO-PRESIDENT 
rebounds, and brought life back harbor any hopes of an NCAA to the Irish attack. 
bid, they must not suffer a "I was very pleased with 
letdown. 
what Carl did," said Irish coach "The team that's coming in
IN YOUR DORM 
John MacLeod. "He came in here (Tuesday) just poundedduring a critical time in the first 
Dayton at Dayton," warned 
half and scored when we really MacLeod. "We couldn't beat 
needed some points.:· 
Dayton there, and they did. 
A major factor in the win Xavier is 15-9 and they're a
TODAY! 
was Notre Dame's ability to 
very talented and strong team." 
bottle up Sealy after his sizzling 



page 18 The Observer Monday, March 2, 1992 
Irish hockey sweeps Falcons 
8-3, 3-2 wins close out reoular season for NO 
By ANTHONY KING Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame hockey team finished up their regular season with a bang, taking two wins from the Air Foree this week­end, 8-3 and 3-2. 
As both teams head to the Independent Tournament this weekend in Alaska, the Irish needed these wins to provide some momentum going into the tourney. 
"We needed it badly," com­mented Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We're very dose in rankings, two fairly even matched teams. We won, we're happy for it." 
Notre Dame got the momen­tum early on Friday, taking a 2­0 lead in the first period. Senior Mike Curry got things started for the Irish, on a mistake made by Air Force in the neutral zone. Defenseman Dan Sawyer picked up the puck and passed it over to Curtis Janicke. Janicke struggled to get control before pushing it over to Curry, who lifted the puck past Falcon goaltender Mark Leibich. 
Sawyer would get a goal of his own a minute and a half later, on a power-play slapshot goal from the point. 
The Irish offense continued to explode in the second period, scoring three goals. Tim Litchard knocked in a shot off the pads of Liebich, to give the Irish a 3-0 lead at the 2:04 


Scott inspires Irish swimmers at MCCs 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
An emotional season reached a peak last weekend for the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships. 
Freshman Haley Scott re­

turned to support her team­mates for the first time since she was injured in the January 24 bus aecident and the teams responded with a dominant showing. 
Scott wasn't expected to walk 

for a year, but she shuffled around the pool deck with a cane, providing inspiration for 
her teammates, who turned in one of their best performances of the year. 
The championships also marked the final home meet for the Irish seniors. adding to an alreadyemotionalweekend. 
"It was bittersweet," said outgoing senior Jim Birmingham. "I really enjoy the sport, but now it's time to move 
on. It was tough leaving my 1:51.88 and Cornick set the
................
~----~ 
l""'"~'~" I" lf,.,.n,.•~ •

SPRING BR!Ait 
,...., ~ ..... "'"'''"''"" 

I N fLORIDA? 
STOP  AND  STAY  WITH  US  
ON  
YOUR  WAY  D  
0  
"  
MPSI'r&S  FOR  EVERYONE  P'II:OP'I  PULL  HOOKUPS  FOR  AV'S  TO  PRIJHTIVE  ...... ...__  
POA  TENTS.  

ARI NATIVE.! OP "ICKIANA WBO RBCEN'fLY PURCHASED CAI'tP-ON--'tRE­
1.1 A•D MOOLD LOY! TO HAVE YOO YLSl'r WITH US~ FOR A LITTLE BOSPITALITT IN A SOOTBia• PAaA.DlSI MAI.B YCXJ'R AES!RYA­
1'011 .IISERUTIOOIS CALL (615) 942-4078 
• "ICBIANA PASS • 
10, orr CAMPING AT 
CA"P-ON-TH!-LAltl 
Y.XlT 161 1-24, GUILD, TN 
Not Valid Wlth Oth•r-Di•counta 
PRP.SilJIT COUpON WIIBN "AI INC RISiaYA'I'JONS AND/OR IIIJON AtUl1 VAl•• 

iiZ ;; 
Haley Scott 

teammates and knowing I wouldn't compete with them again at home." 
Despite all the distractions, five MCC records fell as the men's team chalked up 911 points and the women's team notched 978 1/2. Evansville 
was each team's closest rival, finishing 201 points behind the men and 182 1/2 points behind the women. 
Juniors Tom Whowell and Greg Cornick each set new con­ference records. Whowell out­distanced the field in the 200 backstroke with a time of 
Curtis Janicke 

mark. After Falcon Eric Rice narrowed the margin to 3-1 on a power play goal, the tandem of Sawyer and Curry produced again. 
Sawyer's goal was a mirror­image of his first, scoring on another slap shot from the point on the power play. Curry beat goalie Liebich for his 99th career point, on an assist from walk-on defenseman Justin Arcangel. 
"Arcangel had his best game ever," said Schafer. "He really played with a lot of confidence." 
The third period belonged to Curtis Janicke. Janicke pro­vided all of the Notre Dame of­fense for the stanza, lighting the lamp three times for the hat trick. Janicke hammered in his first goal of the evening at the 
4:46 mark, slapping in a loose puck in front of the net to make it 6-2. 
Janicke scored on the power play again, this time on a slap shot that found an opening be­tween Leibich's legs. Janicke fi­nalized the hat trick at 13:56, with a tap in off a Sterling Black deflection, to make the final 8­3. 
Overall, Notre Dame was an incredible four-of-five on power-play opportunities. 
"We need our power play to score goals," explained Irish coach Ric Schafer. "Five-on-five we're not as high powered. It's just a matter of finding the open man, giving him a pass he can handle, and getting a good shot off of it. Tonight, we took advantage of our opportuni­ties." 
Saturday's game saw the Irish power play fall apart, but Notre Dame mustered up just enough offense to come away with a victory. 
It was Janicke again provid­ing the third period magic, scoring the game winner with 
15:59 left in the contest. Janicke put a wrist shot past Leibich to kill the Falcon come­back. 
"We needed that goal by Janicke," explained Schafer. "We needed to regain our com­
posure after they had gotten...,.-.:;;~,....~=""'.:11'~ two quick ones. "We were play­ing better at the time and for­tunately it resulted in a goal." 
Senior Curry managed to get his 100th career point on an L:&~~...,.~ 
assist to Brent Lamppa in the first period. 
pace in the 100 freestyle at 
46.29. 

Freshmen Preston Martin and Kevin Scott were also winners in the 200 breaststroke and 1650 freestyle, respectively. 
Three women set new MCC marks, led by Cara Garvey's 
2:07.76 in the 200 backstroke., Angie Roby led the way in the 200 butterfly at 2:09.04 and Becky Wood broke the 200 I breaststroke record with a time of 2:25.18. 
Jennifer Dahl helped the women's cause with a win in the 100 freestyle and Susan Bodhan won the 1650 freestyle. 
With the season drawing to a close, the Irish used the MCCs 1 as an opportunity to salvage a difficult season. 
"It was the last opportunity for some people to turn in ca­reer bests or season bests so I think everybody was really mo­tivated to swim as well as they 
could," Birmingham com-f-:~:7)Jir""..------------~==~-==--~!"P.F"'""''i mented. 
They did swim as well as they could and the opposition never had a chance . 

·-------------­
• 

--===~-=:==-­
f'\ORffiU ernYfR cfcSR 1ltf cfi RTs 
LIVE ON THE O'lAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM STAGE! 
THE FIRST NORTH AMERICAN TOUR 
BY ONE OF RUSSIA'S PREMIER DANCE COMPANIES 


WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 7:30P.M. • TICKETS: $16/$12/$8 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary·s box office. 
. 1±1-­
located In O'Laughlln Auditorium. For Information Samt Mary's Colleg~ and charge card orders. call219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 


Runners qualify for NCAAs 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 

Saturday's Alex Wilson Track Invitational at Loftus Center served as an opportunity to qualify for the ICAAAA Indoor Championships on March 7 ·8, and the NCAA Indoor Championships the following weekend. 
For Notre Dame's squad, John Coyle, Todd Herman, and Willie Clark all met their goals, while senior distance runner Brian Peppard had a disappointing showing. 
Coyle, a junior, became an NCAA provisional qualifier for his third-place finish in the 5000 meter with a 14:00 time. The event gives automatic bids for times under 13:53 and provisional qualifications for those under 14:08. 
"That was my goal, to run 14 (minutes) or faster. I planned at the beginning of the season to peak this weekend and to go to nationals." 
With an automatic bid in the ICAAM's, Coyle feels he is currently in the middle of the 10-man pack taken to the NCAA tournament. 
Junior Willie Clark, who qualified for the NCAA's two weeks ago in the 55-meter dash, ran a 6.43 and qualified for the lCAAAA Indoors. Clark also won the 55 meter finals. 
High jumper Todd Hermann became a provisional qualifier for the NCAA's with a 7' 1" bound. His jump set a Wilson Invite record. 
Although no Irish women qualified, there'were several notable performanees. 
Captain Diana Bradley 
(5:03.4) won the mile. Kala Boulare earned a second place finish in the 800 {2:16.42). In the 200 Latrice Waters (26.0) was second and Lisa Junek third (26.9). 
For the men, DHan Lytle got first place in the 200 meter consolation final with a 21.8 time. Chris Ross (1:02.8) and Miguel Conway finishe,d one­two in the 500 final. 
On the down side, Brian Peppard, a member of Ireland's Olympic team, ran 800 meters in 1:53, placing sixth. The performance was over five seconds behind Georgetown's Rich Kenah. 
AT­

MARIGOLD MARKET 
ODG-r<. A BASKeT OF ::5HAM~k.. GCC'Pl t;;;.S Ft:>~ YoUR f;A;VOI2: l'IE 
LEPREC..HAf'J ! 
~ 

"'\-OUR t:=:'VE.R POPULA \=2-\R\S H 
f?AS~E.T. 

~A Do"Z~N -5'HAtv\t<OC:::..I< C.OOI<(E:S 
N \1 
~A !RlS+-\ DINNER f=OI2.. WO. 
.. 

~ Mf2.S. PRINDAEL.E-S A"PPLE:S TH--E LLJC.l<: C>F lt-JE 1Rl'S H IS 
SVR'E -ro FOLLOW 1. Df<APE.. ANt::>Cl-E.VE:LAt-Jt::> • 212· 1922.. 
Monday, March 2, 1992 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
T~ \1-\£. C~t>-W'IcAA! I'~
I 'tbN! I l>\~ IT! 
T\-\1:. B£.51 T\-\£.1<£. I'5 . 1 I'M
l WON! 
1\-\£. TCl~ OF T\\E li£AI' .' 



"Oh, Misty always hates me showing this slide.... It's halftime at the '88 Detroit-Chicago game when we met." 
JAY HOSLER
SPELUNKER 


CROSSWORD 

59 "-boy!" 48 Cann~d meat 60 Gymnastics equip-49 Even1ng, for short 
ment 50 Classify 61 Be overly fond of 51 English river 62 -kit 53 Penny ­63 Trencherman 54 Exploits LECTURES 64 Dollar bills 56 Haggard novel 
57 Bygone bird Tuesday

DOWN 5B Busy activity 1 Striplings 
12:10 p.m. Noontalk, "Master Drawings From the Permanent Art
2 Exchange premium 
Collection," Mary Frisk. O'Shag Gallery, West, Snite Museum of
3 Barracks bigwigs 
(2 wds.) Art. 4 ----de Triomphe 5 Had a talk 
12:30 p.m. Seminar, "The Peaceful Coexistence of Mass Production
6 Not working 

and Flexibility in the Brazilian Motor Vehicle Industry," Caren
7 Nullify 8 Water bird Addis, faculty fellow. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Admission 9 Something for two free. ­
10 Village high point 11 Certain surgery 
CAMPUS
12 Top-notch n Desoicable 18 Put into circu­Tuesday
lation 19 Like a good 

12:10 p.m. Noontalk, "Master Drawings From the Permanent Art
shortstop

24 Homonym for a Collection," Mary Frisk. O'Shag Gallery, West, Snite Museum of _.,. bowling alley Art. 25 English poet John­
12:30 p.m. Seminar, "The Peaceful Coexistence of Mass Production
26 Miss Moffo 

27 Union general and Flexibility in the Brazilian Motor Vehicle Industry," Caren 2B Church feature Addis, faculty fellow. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Admission
40 Cleanse
23 Other than 29 Cuban dance free.
41 Ballplayer ---­
25 Natives of Elsinore 31 Miss Berger
ACROSS Irvin
27 Plunder 32 Musical sounds
42 Work unit
1 Dalai ----29 Viet ----34 "Mr. Television" MENU
43 Earthen jar
5 Do con~truction 30 California time 37 Cordell ­
44 Cordoba cloaks
work (abbr.) 38 Thelon.ious -Notre Dame 
45 Boxing great ---­
10 Direct insult 33 Borden's cow 40 French common
Griffith
14 Actor John ----34 Pretty, in Scotlan< soldier 
15 Worship 35 ----Tolstoy 47 Singer Paul ----41 Painter Edouard-Sirloin Steak Sandwich 
48 Escargot
16 Malayan boat 36 "Do you have chango 44 George E1 i ot Smoked Thuringer 
50 Angry
!7 Martinets for ----?" character Pasta Primavera Mozzarella 
52 Sigma's neighbor
20 Drunkard 37 Hair dye 46 King with the
55 Greek range
21 Hurried 38 Horace or Thomas golden touch
(2 wds.)
22 Water buffalo 39 To give: Sp. 
~···························································\
! CHIMES !
. u . 
: ~ Saint Mary's Literary Magazine : : Needs Short Stories, Poems, Art Work ... For Their 1992 Issue : : r./'J. Submit Your Work NOW! : : Submissions may be dropped of in Madeleva 306 :
• 
Sports 
page 20 
ROLANDO 
DEAGUIAR 
Cheap 
Shots 
ookstore tau rney needs your support 
The timn has come to take 
ttle poll. 
Put your head down on th table ( bP careful not to get you hair in your lunch), and lis carefully. 

-
Please raise your right if you havP signed up Bookstore Basketball. 
Unfortunately. I don't see 
Vtlry many hands. 
Today is the last day to sign up for Bookstore, one of Notre Dame's most popular tradi­tions. The decades-old basket­ball tournament discovers the best starting five on the Notre Dame campus by involving sev­eral thousand Notre Dame stu­dents. faculty and stafl'. 
This spring, the interest o tlw Notrn Dame campus should be piqued. as talent levnls in Bookstortl's upper echelon are higher than usual. 
Four st>nior starters for Notre 
Damp's varsity team, the 
trongest class to 
graduate nee the latP 1970s. will pi 
the asphalt courts outside Stepan Ct>ntPr. 
And with the graduation May of perennial all-tourn ment team member Derri 
ohnson. Notre Dame's 
arsity athletic community looking for a new hero. 
But has that hero even si up? The promotional effort f Bookstore this year has been 
Except for an occasional poster and a continual sp brief in The ObsPrver, Notr Dame's gerwral public has had 
ittle knowlPdge of what was nee callnd the world's mateur basketball tourna­
nwnt. 
The only way to keP.p Bookstore's impressive .stature the world of pickup hoops is l gPt out and play. Hut I al­
ready hear the excusns. "I can't lind four other people play with." 
Evtln I am not so sociall rwpt as to make this claim. Everyone likes to go out and 
n around for a :~o minutes, specially in the beautiful weather of a Midwest 
spring. ''I'm not that good." Nobody else is any good ei­
ther. Quite a few of them thin 
thny are the second coming 
Connie Hawkins, but mos 
Notre Dame students ar 
equally mediocre on blacktop. 
SUB's nffort to promote th tournament also has bee unimpressive, especially i light of other ventures that

-
organization has tackled. 
see BOOKSTORE I page 16 

INSIDE SPORTS  
Wilson Invite a stepping stone to the NCAAs see page 18 Hockey sweeps Air Force see page 18 Fencers compete In Open see page17  

Monday, March 2, 1992 
Bengals provide excitement 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The 62nd annual Bengal Mission Bouts came to a dose Saturday night, thrilling the crowd at the Joyce ACC from start to finish. 
The 135-lb division bout be­tween Tim Phelan and Brian Brophy started the night's ac­tion in exciting fashion. Brophy survived a quick start by Phelan, to take the champi­onship on a unanimous deci­sion. Brophy found success by attempting double the punches his opponent threw, a style of fighting he found successful in his previous lights. 
As the crowd applauded the efforts of the two 135-lb final­ists, Lou Hall and Renzy Smith entered the ring to begin the 145-lb final. 
The Observer/A I Garr Schwartz 
To see who was the favorite
Eric "The Mosquito" Milito (right) hammered Fred "Free-Fallin" Sharkey 
between the two, you need not 
en route to the 150-lb Benqal Bouts title on Saturday. 
look any further than their shoes. I I all wore a pair of black Pony boxing shoes, similar to those seen on the feet of most professional boxers. Smith sported a pair of blue and white Nike hightops. 
The lanky Smith used his Nikes and a key punch in the bout's opening round to pull ofT the night's biggest upset. 
Hall opened the first round by landing a serins of shots to the head of Smith, sending him to the canvas in the light's opening minute. Smith quickly returned the assault by connecting on a strong right followed by an uppercut which sent Hall into the ropes. The referee gave Hall a standing eight-count, as it was evident that he was dazed from the blow. 
"At the end of the first round, that punch he landed, I felt the effPCts of .~hat through the 
see BENGALS I page 17 
Men's hoops upsets #20 St.John's 
NO surprises Redmen 79-70 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

With every game a must-win the rest of the way, Notre Dame kept its NCAA hopes alive with its third straight weekend upset on Saturday. 
Two Saturdays ago, it was 1Oth-ranked Syracuse at the Carrier Dome. Last Saturday, number-two UCLA fell to the Irish at the Joyce ACC. 
This time, the victim was 20th-ranked St. John's (17-8), as Notre Dame pulled out a 79­70 victory over the Redmen be­fore a sellout crowd at the Joyce Center. With the win, the Irish moved over the .500 mark for the first time all year at 13­12. 
Senior LaPhonso Ellis had a huge game for Notre Dame, scoring 30 points on 7-of-13 shooting from the field and a perfPct 16-of-16 from the line, tying a school record for con­secutive free throws made in a game. Ellis also added 16 re­bounds, two steals and two blocked shots. 
"Ellis pulled off a great per-
see HOOPS I page 17 
Ellis regains free-throw touch 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Associate Sports Editor 

Last week, LaPhonso Ellis re­ceived a phone call from his younger brother. 
The call in itself is nothing out of the ordinary, but their conversation gave LaPhonso a tip that helped him connect on 16-of-16 foul shots in Notre Dame's 79-70 win Saturday over St. John's. 
"lie knew that I had been struggling at the line," said Ellis, who tied Donald Royal's Notrn Dame record of most free throws made in a game. "So he told me I should start using tlw 
form  that  I  used  in  high  
school."  
Wh1111  Ellis  came  to Notre  

Dame four years ago from Lincoln High School in East St. Louis, Ill.. Irish coaches altered his foul shooting tl~ehniqun. Coming into the St. John's game, Ellis had converted on slightly morn than 63 percent of his foul shots (86-of-135). 
"When you get here, they want everyone to shoot pretty much the same way from the 
see ELLIS I page 15 
Lacrosse team opens season by pummeling Bonnies 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 

In a superb all-around performance, the Notre Dame lacrosse team crushed St. Bonaventure 23-4 in its season opener yesterday at the Loftus Center. The win upped the Irish's opening day record to 9-3, including a 4-0 mark when they open at home. 
Notre Dame dominated the contest from start to finish, as the majority of the game was played on the St. Bonaventure side of the field. This enabled the Irish to outshoot the Bonnies 57-32. 
"We wanted to come out after them from the first whistle, and get an early lead," Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We were able to create opportunities with an aggressive 10-man ride. That was nice because our guys seem to relax when we play aggressive. 
"We worry about our style more than the other team's. This (game) helped establish that early in the season. If we execute and play well, we will be a good team." 
Notre Dame scored the first five goals of the game in the opening eight minutes. The fifth goal came at 

7:17 of the first quarter on a perfect pass from senior attackman Mike Sullivan to junior midfielder Brian Mayglothing. 
Sullivan controlled the ball on the left side and fed Mayglothing, who was waiting to the right of the net and fired a shot past Bonnie goalie Pete Dawdizak. 
The assist, one of four Sullivan had on the day, earned him the all-time Notre Dame assist record. He surpassed John Olmstead, who had 63 assists from 1986-1989. 
"Mike Sullivan is our leader on the offensive side of the field, and he is recognizing the game situations," Corrigan commented. "This is the next step for him. He is now able to recognize the situations and control that end of the field for us. This is going to make us a better team." 
As a whole, the offense performed well. The 23 goals were the third-highest total ever recorded by a Notre Dame team and the most since 1987 when the Irish bombarded Wittenburg, 26-1. 


Twelve different players scored for the Irish, including Handy Cooley and Sullivan, who both recorded hat tricks. 
Cooley had four goals and three assists, while Sullivan netted three. 
"Our offense played well. We showed a combination of our settled and unsettled offense," Corrigan said. "The best scoring opportunities come from the unsettled, but we were able to recognize when that wasn't there and go into our settled game. We were smart enough not to waste the ball and we got something out of our settled offense." 
Overall, it was a good way to start the season. However, the Irish realize that the real test will be during their East Coast trip over spring break when they take on Villanova, Maryland-Baltimore County and Georgetown. 
"This was something we can build on, but now we have to focus on the break trip. Villanova will be our first real test," Cooley commented. "Today, we worked well as a team, and started to come together. I think it's going be a good year." 








