The Observer 
VOL. XXV. N0.18 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Art experts discourage removal of art exhibit 
By KATIE CAPUTO News Writer 
A panel of experts in art and philosophy discouraged the removal of Marcia Kaplan's sculptures from the Le Mans lawn at Saint Mary's, saying that censorship is wrong and art should stimulate discussion. 
"The work confronts us and we are forced to respond," said Father Austin Collins, sculptor and associate professor of art at Notre Dame. "Our artistic expression should be as broad as our educational pursuits." 
About 100 people, both students and faculty, attended the discussion of censorship on college_ campuses, which resulted from the removal of Kaplan's sculptures two weeks ago and "concern over the operation of censorship on the campus." 
"This is a constructive and educational way of raising issues regarding censorship of the arts," said Bob Hohl, a reference librarian at the Cushwa-Leighton Library. Informal discussions and concerns among faculty and students led to a formal meeting, according to Hohl. 
Collins said that the intolerant attitude evident on the Saint Mary's campus is "totally inappropriate in an academic environment." 
By removing "something that is going to stimulate conversation," we are rejecting the opportunity to know and learn, said Ann Plamondon, chairman of the department of communications, dance, and theater at SMC. 
"People have different ideas of what art ought to be," but that does not make censorship right, according to Ann Clark, chair of the department of philosophy at Saint Mary's. 
She discussed the female 
see ART I page 4 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

lon's eye view 

Located in the bowels of Niewland Hall is one of Notre Dame's two nuclear particle accelerators. The other accelerator was an integral part of the original nuclear research in the 1940's and has since been decommissioned. 

Panel addresses the future of news and new media trends 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH be a snapshot of our system and who already benefit more issue oriented, and longer 
News Writer There was a consensus community." from it, said Kelly. and more in-depth stories. among all the panelists that Newspapers need to present a "What we do is enhanced by He "has no idea where we what constituets news and a balanced picture of the story people reading elsewhere," he really are headed, but I believe A panel of four members of "good" news story is dependant from the beginning, address said. "We can't keep up with that in public radio we will fine­
the media addressed the issues on the medium. more diverse populations, newspapers in terms of amount tune our stories, and have more of news and the new trends in become more issue oriented and depth of coverage." confrontation with public the media in a panel discussion "News should reflect what and bring local connections to officials. Also, we have too yesterday at Saint Mary's. people are thinking, as well as national news stories, according He feels the trend in television many 'pale' and 'male' persons be entertaining," said Dowell. to Stephen. is more consumer oriented making decisions, we need Included on the panel were "You must determine what the She believes that most "smart "news you can use stories," an more women and minorities in 
Janis Dowell, morning show public needs to know." papers are doing this kind of attempt to be entertaining and news." 
producer for WNDU radio; The future of radio news, thing, it is a little trend." a tendency to be more 
Diana Stephen, Michigan Editor consists of more on-location sensational with all stories. The panel was sponsored by 
of the South Bend Tribune; reporting and human angles, In the commercial mass the local and student chapters 
Mark Kelly, anchor at WNDU she said. media you must sell your "Public radio marches to a of Women In Communications, 
television; and Doug product, and there is a different drummer," Inc (WICI). 
Cunnigham, news director of Stephen believes that every tendency to serve the people Cunningham said. Public radio WVPE, a public radio station. edition of a newspaper "should who are already part of the tends to have stories that are Senate votes for additional $3 billion for Hawaiian hurricane relief efforts 
WASHINGTON (AP) officials. On a voice vote, the Senate Rushing to keep up with Mother The $10.5 billion measure accepted an amendment by Nature, the Senate voted would be easily the biggest Mack and Sen. Bob Graham, D­Tuesday to provide $3 billion to federal relief package ever for a Fla., that would provide $66 help Hawaii rebuild from natural disaster, dwarfing the million to rebuild some of the Hurricane Iniki and to satisfy $2.9 billion approved in 1990 facilities at destroyed growing pleas for help from for California's Lorna Prieta Homestead Air Force Base. Hurricane Andrew's victims. earthquake. It would also The money would allow 
On a voice vote, senators further swell the federal deficit. enough reconstruction to let the tacked the aid onto a measure The original $7.5 billion U.S. Customs Service and other that initially contained $7.5 hurricane bill, completed last agencies that use the base to billion in loans and grants for Thursday, was rendered moot a resume functioning. But no residents of Florida and day later when Iniki slammed money was provided for work Louisiana battered last month Hawaii with 160 mph winds that would allow a fighter wing by Andrew. They also neared and 30-foot waves. Iniki left to return to the air base. final approval of the overall bill. three dead, 8,000 homeless and 
"Kauai is a scene of caused an estimated $1 billion An additional $26 million to unimaginable devastation," said in damage. remove rubble and begin Sen. Daniel Akaka, D-Hawaii, Meanwhile, estimates of planning for possible referring to a weekend trip he Andrew's damages continued to reconstruction was already in made to the island that bore the swell. the measure, bringing the total brunt of the Iniki's destruction. for Homestead to $92 million. "Whenever you see a coconut "This is one time I think this The base's fate has become a tree and its leaves stripped, you place is moving too quickly," political issue, as President know that its winds were said Sen. Connie Mack, R-Fla. Bush pledged to resurrect the strong." "We keep getting information." South Florida air base shortly 
The bill's chief sponsor, Andrew, the costliest natural after it was destroyed by Appropriations Committee disaster to ever hit the United Andrew on Aug. 24. Florida is a Chairman Robert Byrd, D­States, is so far blamed for 55 key state in Bush's re-election W.Va., said he hoped final deaths and nearly $22 billion in bid, and the base was a major legislation could be sent to damage. The storm left more local employer. 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

President Bush by week's end. than 250,000 homeless. The president sought $480 But the bill's immediate future Mack and other Florida million to begin the was clouded because it included officials, bargaining behind reconstruction. But the Senate 
Preparing to cast a ballot 
Jim Schmiedeler, a Cavanaugh Hall freshman, registers Stanford 
two unrelated provisions -closed doors until the last Appropriations Committee 
Hall junior Karl Schleidt as an Indiana voter for the upcoming 
dealing with abortion and labor minute, won more aid for their stripped virtually all of the 
Presidential election, thus bypassing the need for an absentee 
regulations -that drew veto state, but less than they initially money in,a bipartisan 12-8 vote 
threats from administration hoped. last Thursday. 
ballot. One may re-register upon returning home. 
page 2 The Observer Wednesday, September 16,1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
All we're sayin'
is give the 
Bencfa chance 
I have seen the light. 
I used to hate South 
Bend. Notre Dame, a 
little xenophobic 
enclave of suburban 
America, made me feel 
as safe as Lawrence 
Powell during a routine Rolando de Aguiar 
traffic stop in Simi Val­
Associate Sports Editor
ley. But the rust belt 
city south of campus 
scared the living corn out of me. 
Crime was rampant, the weather rivaled that of Moscow, and the people of Michiana loved my school's football team, but hated me and my roommates. 
Those were the old days. Over the last month, I've come to a realization. South Bend is a great little town. And if Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students would stick their necks out far enough to see the Society Bank building, they might also see a community which actually has a lot to offer. 
Yesterday, I went to the library. But this library didn't display a garish, 130-foot brown-on­brown mosaic of the Christian savior on its favade. Rather, it was sleek, chic and full of stu you can't find on campus. 
The South Bend Public Library has a huge collection of records, tapes and compact discs, as well as video tapes. You can check them out for free if you have a library card. Their selection of newspapers makes the Hesburgh Library's look like the coffee table in my living room. 
Is your room under-decorated, or looking like a studio in Haight-Ashbury circa 1969, with old Jefferson Airplane black light posters papering the walls? Then take a trip to the library, and check out a painting for six weeks. 
Maybe you are not satisfied with free music, movies and art. Then how about almost-free furniture, clothes and gadgets? 
South Bend is the home of what I believe to be the world's largest Goodwill. In fact, after the Boeing Vehicle Assembly Building and the Pentagon, it is the biggest building in North America. They've got everything from candles to lawn jockeys. And the last Saturday of every month is half-off day. So get out there and buy a barometer, because in Michiana, you need one. 
I'm from Florida, a peninsula renowned for its sudden, drastic weather changes. I love the unpredictability and randomness of South Bend's weather, too. Yesterday we had 85 degrees. We had thunderstorms. Today a major cold front is moving in. This is meteorological beauty, Dick Addis-style. 
But the beauty of South Bend isn't in its weather. Michiana is actually filled with great people who like Notre Dame students. 
Unfortunately, few Notre Dame students are willing to involve themselves in the everyday goings-on of South Bend and Mishawaka. Lots o us take part in service activities, but most of us are also guilty of distancing ourselves from the community of which we are a big part. The people of South Bend tend to see us as rich college kids, aloof toward all those in the real world of Michiana. 
So try a little harder. Make an effort to enjoy South Bend. After all, you do live here. 
The views expressed are the views of the author andnot necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Today's Staff 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Hotel rejects American AIDS patient 
•TOKYO -A Tokyo hotel refused to provide accommodations for an American AIDS sufferer who was in Japan to speak at a symposium on the disease, hotel officials said today. Organizers of the symposium, entitled "Living with AIDS," requested reservations at the Hotel Toshi Center for Sean Duque, 38, who addressed the one-day event last Thursday. But the hotel rejected the request. "We don't want AIDS patients to stay because our customers will feel uneasy. ... And we're not equipped with hygiene measures," said an official at the hotel, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
NATIONAL 
Puppy owner ruins yard to save dogs 
•sAN ANTONIO -His home is flooded, his plumbing system destroyed and his yard is full of deep holes, but Aaron Gonzalez doesn't mind. His puppies are safe. 
OF INTEREST 
•The 
Balet Folklorico Azul y Oro will dance on the Fieldhouse Mall at 5 p.m. to celebrate Mexican Independence Day. 

•science 
Placement Night will be at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of Hayes-Healy. Representatives from Hewitt Associates, the Upjohn Company and Vista Chemical will present career information. The event is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 


MARKET UPDATE 
FORECAST 

Partly cloudy and warm tonight. Low 65 to 70. Partly sunny and warm 
Wednesday with a 30
percent chance of thunderstorms. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  60  36  
Atlanta  80  62  
Bogota  66  45  
Boston  75  54  
Cairo  90  72  
Chicago  82  68  
Cleveland  80  60  
Coronado  99  79  
Dallas  90  73  
Detroit  80  64  
Green Bay  74  55  
Indianapolis  82  61  
Jerusalem  81  63  
Lewisburg  79  60  
London  68  52  
Los Angeles  98  75  
Lovington  94  72  
Madrid  90  61  
Minneapolis  75  56  
Moscow  55  46  
Nashville  86  62  
New York  75  57  
Paris  73  50  
Philadelphia  78  57  
Rome  86  61  
SeaUie  60  48  
South Bend  82  69  
Tokyo  73  66  
Washington, D.C.  76  57  

Seven 2-week-old puppies fell down a 4-inch sewer trap line in Gonzalez's yard Sunday morning. He discovered the canine catastrophe when the mother began behaving frantically. He even borrowed a neighbor's shop vacuum and to suck three of the pups safely from the pipe.The couple went to bed about 2 a.m., planning to get a backhoe to tear up the yard the next morning. But they couldn't sleep because the trapped puppies "cried and cried," and their whimpering mother refused to leave the hole, Gonzalez said. "It was ugly." 
Miss Tennessee is an Army Officer 

•ATLANTIC 
CITY, N.J. -Leah Hulan traded her combat boots and fatigues for high heels and a swimsuit, as the Army Reserve intelligence expert ­don't say spying, she dislikes the word -competes to become the 66th Miss America. Hulan, Miss Tennessee and a second lieutenant, has been involved in undercover work and electronic warfare in Central America. She's also expert at firing an M16 semiautomatic rifle and a .45-caliber pistol, and holds the military's highest marksmanship award. 

•An 
alternative music program, Nocturne Tonight, will be hosted by Tony Leonardo, on 88.9 WSND-FM at 12 p.m. To make requests, call239-7342. 

•The 
Catholic Worker House is sponsoring a luncheon Thursday, September 17 at the Center for Social Concerns from 11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m. 

•The 
Pre-professional Society, now known as Club Pre-Med, will hold its first meeting for all new and present members in the auditorium of Cushing Hall. For information call Paula at 283-4271. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Production News 
Peggy Crooks Frank Rivera Bryan Nowicki Sarah Doran 
Sports Systems 
Rolando de Aguiar Matt Carbone John Rock 
Scoreboard Accent 
Tony Pottinger John LoGiudice 
Viewpoint 
Kelly O'Rourke 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 15 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 221,973,300 +1.68 to 230.78 S&P COMPOSITE -5.50 to 419.77 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -48.90 to 3,327.32

UNCHANGED 579 

GOLD -.40 to $346.90 
SILVER 
+.035 to $3.806 

:: ··••• 
· · · 
• 
In 1908: William Crapo Durant formed the automotive company General Motors. 

• 
In 1927: German President Hindenburg denied that Germany was responsible for World War I. 

•In 
1955: A military revolt erupted in Argentina against Juan Peron. 

• 
In 1966: The New Metropolitan Opera House opened in New York. 

• 
In 1974: President Ford offered conditional amnesty to draft evaders who agreed to work for two years in public service. 

• 
In 1987: Seventy nations signed an accord to save ozone layer. 



And now for your future ..... . 
K.evin K~ye; of Dean Witt.er Renolds addresses a student on the post college job market at "Meet the F1rm~ Night . It was held In the Monogram Room of the JACC on Monday night and was sponsored by the F1nance Club. 
HPC discusses taxi voucher program 
By JULIE BARRETT Assistant News Editor 
A man approached two Notre Dame students sunbathing on the dock of St. Joseph beach Sunday claiming he was a photographer for The Observer and asked to take photographs of the women, according to Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
The students became suspicious of the man and reported the incident Monday. 
There  was  no  physical  
confrontation  reported,  
Johnson said.  

Sherwin Rosen. conference will lead to a "sense 
The panel discussion will of possible repercussions or focus on potential monetary, implications for society of the fiscal, educational and other growing inequality." public policy reforms," said 
Notre Dame security reports suspicious person; vandalism 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
A taxi voucher program was introduced last night to the Hall Presidents' Council. 
The goal of the program, introduced last year by a group of seniors, is to prevent drinking and driving and to encourage safety by allowing students to charge a taxi and be billed later, according to Mark Pogue, coordinator of the Office of Drug and Alcohol Administration. 
"This voucher system will be a safe option for students, but if this program is going to fly," he said, "it is going to have to be a student-run project." 
The suspect is described as being a white male, 5'10", between the ages of 30 and 35 with light brown hair and a mustache, Johnson said. 
In a separate incident, 13 paintings were vandalized sometime this weekend in the basic painting room in Riley Hall of Art and Design. 
Three of the paintings were ripped and 10 had paint smeared on them, Johnson said. There are no suspects at this time. 
Johnson requested that anyone with information about these incidents notify Security. 
Members of the organization Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD) will be helping to organize this project, he said. 
More orders for "The Shirt" are being placed today, according to Steve Hank from Alumni Hall. So far the net profit is $100,000 and shirt sales have doubled the original estimate, he said. 
The Lyons Hall volleyball tournament will be September 27 and teams comprised of six students can register for $10 September 21 in both dining halls during the lunch and dinner hours, said Wendy Holthaus, coordinator. 
Lyons Hall will donate all 

proceeds to the American Heart Association in memory of Karen Whitman, a Lyons resident who died of a haert attack over the summer. 
Because there is a lack of places to host formals this year, Senior Bar will be available for non-alcoholic formals only, said Mary Glode, manager of the Senior Bar. 
Senior Bar will also be incorporated into the Weekend Wheels project, she said. 
"This is a great service because it helps to reduce the liability of bars and gets students home safely," Glode said. 
Don't forget to fast today if you signed up for Lunchfast 
Wednesday is 

"SOCK IT THROOGH THE STRAW NITE" 
7J({}]!E~o-50% OFF Wlf!EIJ))o-PENNY CUP NIGHT 8-2 A.M. $3 WITH STUDENT J.D. 7JIHJ({}]!R~o-DOLLAR NIGHT 



'11U Po{is/i Community ofl)..{ptre fJJame 
VELCRO JUMPING 
6id.s farewe{{ to ourfriend 

COMPETITION
--0 
g..: 
1(rzysztofrrrautman 


aoctora[stuaent in matliematics
·--' j

1' 

1150 Mishawaka Avenue, South ena, Indiana 288-0285 




page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1992 
Russian cosmonauts move antenna on Mir 

Russian unemployment figures 
expected to skyrocket in 1993 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian 

MOSCOW (AP) -Russian unemployment could jump nearly 20-fold to more than 5 million people next year as cuts in subsidies drive more businesses into bankruptcy, a senior official said in remarks published Tuesday. 
In a sign of discontent, farmers picketed in cities across Russia on Tuesday, protesting that reforms have driven up the prices they must pay at a faster rate than prices they receive for their produce. 
Inflation has skyrocketed since President Boris Yeltsin accelerated reform by freeing prices last January. But so far his government has balked at cutting subsidies to unprofitable state-owned businesses for fear of sinking them and throwing millions out of work. 
Yeltsin vowed last week to fight hyperinflation by slashing subsidies. A wide-scale privatization program he promised to launch Oct. 1 is expected to cause bankruptcies and social hardship. 
Economics Minister Andrei Nechayev said the number of people needing work next year could rise to about 7 million people, or 8 percent of the work force -about the same as the 
successful and that both cosmonauts were feeling

Feature film to be shot on campus 
fine. 

Special to The Observer 
A new feature film based on 

the true story of a 1975 Notre 
Dame football player will be 
shot on campus this fall. 
The filin "Rudy," recounts the experiences of 1976 ND graduate Daniel "Rudy" Ruettiger, a walk-on football player who became a campus legend for his appearance in the final moments of the final home game of 1975, a victory over Georgia Tech. 
A transfer student, Ruettiger had spent two years on the 
Art 
continued from page 1 
imagery in Kaplan's sculptures, saying "it is a sad thing that in this all women's college, we reject that image of the power of the female body." 
Although a member of the audience said the sculptures are offensive to women, art major Valerie Hicks disagreed. 
"I was impressed with the voluptuous forms because of their power," she said "If anything, that power embodies the spirit of a woman." 
Hicks went on to say that she was not offended by the sculptures, but by the vandalism on them. 
Susan Visser, executive director of the South Bend Regional Museum of Art, said that she often is caught between the artist and the public and that she feels that keeping open communication is the greatest challenge in the world of art. 
She suggested that we need to "have communication, keep an open mind, examine the other side and know our own side." She stressed that when dealing with art, we should "constantly re-examine and test our own personal courage." 
"If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him," said Collins, quoting President John Kennedy. 
U.S. rate. 

cosmonauts on Tuesday Nechayev, quoted in the 
completed a series of government's Rossiskiye Vesti 
spacewalks to install an (Russian News), said about 5 
engine and move an million of the 7 million would 
antenna on the Mir space be officially 'jobless,' of which 
station, partly in about 4. 7 million will receive 
preparation for docking unemployment relief. 
with a U.S. space shuttle in 1994. Under the old Soviet system, 
Anatoly Solovyev and officials claimed that no one 
Sergei Avdeyev, who have was unemployed. The number 
been in space for a month of people now registered as 
and a half, made their jobless is 248,000, the daily 
fourth space walk in just Moskovsky Komsomolets 
12 days -an unusual reported. 
burst of activity around the Authorities have said the real 
aging Mir. jobless figure may be twice the 
The ITAR-Tass news official one. 
agency said the three-hour, 33-minute walk was 
Among Tuesday's tasks

team's scout squad before filming of "Rudy" will take 
was the repositioning of a

playing in the last game of his place from mid-O~t.tober to mid­
radio antenna to ensure

collegiate career. November. A Tri-Star Pictures 
good communications

The film reunites director production, the film will be the 
during docking with

David Anspaugh and first theatrical release to be 
spaceships that use a so­

screenwriter Angelo Pizzo, who shot on the Notre Dame campus 
called "androgynous"

last worked together on the since "Kn u te Rockne, All­
docking ·system, including

1986 hit "Hoosiers." American" in 1940. 
the U.S. space shuttle. 

On-campus South Bend 
Most Soviet spaceships use a different docking system, a so-called "male­female" hook-up in which a probe from one ship fits into a cone on the other, according to James Oberg, an American expert on the Russian space program. 
The Russians are preparing for the space shuttle linkup well in advance, giving themselves plenty of time to test the androgynous system, in which the two ships have identical interlocking docks, Oberg said in a telephone interview from his home in Houston. 
The spacewalk began at 
11:49 a.m. Besides moving the antenna, the cosmonauts retrieved samples from the Mir's solar energy panels and other exposed parts. Examination of the samples will help the Russians determine how much wear and tear the 6-year-old craft has suffered. 
P R I l\' C I P L E S o / S 0 U l\' D R E T I R E :\\ E N T I N \' E S T l N G 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START 
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT WOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. 
C
an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to 30years or more. You'll want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. 
By starting to save now, you can take advantage oftax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $wo each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $192,539* by the time 
Even ifyou're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve­with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest­ment choices, and a record ofpersonal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? 
Call today and learn how simple it is 

Correction 
The headline to a story on page three of yesterday's Ob­server was incorrect. There was no immediate confirma­tion of who was responsible for shelling in Sarajevo Monday that killed at least three and injured 3 2. The Observer regrets the error. 
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you you'll have to budget $227each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on to reach the same goal. your side. 
St.rtpl.nni"D yourfuture. Ctdl -rEnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
•.AJ•uming an intuut raa of 7.5% credia3 to TMA &tirem.enlAnnuitieJ. Tbil rate il IUed Joldy to 1bow the P""""" anJ 4/ect ofCDmpounding. Lower or bigbu rlllu wou/J pro/Jua ooy iJifjerent ruulu. CREFcutifiu.tu IV< iJiltributeJ by TMA-CREF In3wiJU4l anJ !tutilulianJJ &r.i<u. 
Wednesday, September 16,1992 The Observer page 5 
Collegiate officials defend rising costs, despite study 
WASHINGTON (AP) -College officials on Tuesday disputed a congressional study that blamed skyrocketing college tuition and fees on administrative bloat and costly academic research. 
Richard Rosser, president of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, said that the House Select Committee on Children, Youth and Families had provided an "incredibly simplistic" explanation for the skyrocketing costs of public collegiate education Monday. 
Rosser, one of six higher education officials who met with reporters to discuss wide­ranging education issues, said officials "would welcome a meeting" with Rep. Patricia Schroeder, 0-Colo. and the committee chairwoman. 
Schroeder's committee released results of an investigation that found that tuition and fees rose by 141 percent at public four-year colleges and universities from 1980 to 1990, and by 12 percent for the 1991-92 school year. Inflation was 63.6 percent in the 1980s, 3.2 percent last year. 
Despite the increases, Schroeder said, the amount of teaching time went down and class size went up, with colleges increasing their use of graduate assistants to teach undergraduate courses. Schroeder attributed the changes to an increased emphasis on research. 
Also, the investigation found that the number of academic · support professionals -such as financial aid counselors and coaches -grew by more than 60 percent between 1975 and 1985. Full-time faculty rose by 6 percent, while executive and administrative employees increased by 18 percent. 
"I think what we have is really a distortion," said Rosser. 
James Appleberry, president of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, said that over two years higher education lost $3.2 billion in purchasing power, mainly because of budget cuts and inflation.Appleberry said that last year 22 state institutions began the year with less money appropriated than the year before, while 35 schools cut their budgets in mid-year. This year, 15 institutions had their budgets cut from the previous year, he said. 
"We don't see_any end in sight now," said Appleberry. 
Peter Magrath, president of the National Association of State Universities and Land­Grant Colleges, acknowledged that "there is some imbalance between research and teaching functions at a limited number of schools and universities, maybe 200." 
Robert Rosenzweig, president of the Association of American Universities, said "we need a better way to evaluate teachers" but stressed that the use of teaching assistants is essential. 


Philip Delaney of Northern Trust Bank aiscusses career options at "Meet the Firms Night". Most of the firms that participated will be interviewing on campus through the Office of Career and Placement. 
Endeavour astronauts' experiments yield 'really unexpected' observations 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP) -Endeavour's astronauts today peered at tiny tadpoles hatched in space as they wriggled around in a flurry of motions that one scientist called "really unexpected." 
The quarter-inch tadpoles hatched aboard the shuttle during the last two days from frog eggs fertilized on the ground before flight. They darted, swam rapidly in circles or floated, tails wriggling, inside two experimental flasks. 

• ~~~~=-­1'\0Rffi~ QnTTRS lORM4l R T s  
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM YESTERDAY A LIVE TRIBUTE TO THE BEATLES SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS $5 NO STUDENTS $8 ADULTS $10  
MOREAU GALLERIES, through Oct. 2-Barbara Shinn, photographs; Cheryl O'Neill, drawings; Marcia Kaplan, sculpture. Admission free. Information: 284-4655. COMING ATTRACTIONS ... Lend Me a Tenor national touring production, Oct. 14... American Choral Directors Association Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir concert, OCt. 31...  
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's . 1!1--­box office. located in O'Laughlln Auditorium. SamtMary's Colle~ Information and charge·card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  

Ill ALUMNI SENIOR ~!:CLUB KARAOKE Wednesday night at the club! The place to be for the "Class of '93" 9 ~2 must be 21  

The tadpoles' weightless aquatics were "certainly not what one would see on Earth," said scientist Ken Souza of NASA's Ames Research Center in Mountain View, Calif. 
"They were swimming in backwards somersaults, forward somersaults. Some froze, some swam normally," Souza said. "We had a real hodgepodge of swimming behavior from these tads, and that was really unexpected." 
Previous low-gravity tests had led scientists to expect the tadpoles to either remain still or do forward flips, Souza said. The tadpoles will be looked at later in the flight to see how they are adapting to space, he said. 
Also unexpected was the high mortality rate in one of the flasks: Five of six frog embryos in it failed to develop, possibly because of Spacelab's warmth, Souza said. Another flask, in which the tadpoles were a day older, had at least five survivors, he said. 

Astronauts Jan Davis and Mae Jemison had to use a video recorder to beam down pictures of the creatures after a microscope intended for use in the experiment malfunctioned. 
Earlier today, Jemison levitated drops using sound waves, balancing reddish beads of mineral oil in an acoustical chamber using sound from three speakers. 
Some of the eight or so drops drifted off and burst, but scientists said they had some success manipulating a few of the drops, which ranged in size from less than a half-inch to nearly an inch. 
The experiment may help scientists develop methods of processing materials without contaminating them by touching container walls. 
Monday, Endeavour's astronauts got some good news on their frog embryology experiment. 
Four South African clawed frogs aboard the space shuttle were injected Sunday with hormones to induce ovulation. 
StartlineM 
-----I 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 

• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES  • FREE FIRST ORDER OF  
When you write 8 checks or less  CHECKS Standard design  
• NO MINIMUM BALANCE  • PAYS INTEREST AT  
COMPETITNE RATES  
• FREE INSTANT CASH  

ATMACCESS 
Come to expect the best. 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 

Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 16, 1992 
ELECTION '92 

Candidates continue to bash opponents' former records 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) ­President Bush told a military group Tuesday that Bill Clinton's draft record ma.tters since any president "might have to decide if our sons and daughters should knock early on death's door." Clinton steered clear of the draft issue while telling the group he was ready to lead the military as commander in chief. 
The candidates addressed the National Guard Association an hour apart in appearances that had been seen as a chance for a hard-hitting exchange on Clinton's descriptions of how he avoided the Vietnam draft. 
Bush spoke of "controversy swirling around" the issue, but his references were brief and, for the most part, indirect. 
Aides said Clinton had prepared a response in case Bush attacked directly on the draft issue, as other Republicans have, but decided it was unnecessary after hearing Bush's speech. 
The Democrat emphasized the subject he considers at the center of the campaign: the economy. "National security begins with economic security," he told the group. 
Bush, speaking first, raised the draft issue even as he said it was not his intention to make a political assault. 
"There's been a lot of controversy swirling around about service to country. and influence to avoid the military. 
and I've read a great deal of speculation that I was going to come out here and use this forum to attack Gov. Clinton," he said. 
"I didn't come here to attack him," Bush told the group. Still, "I want to tell you I feel very strongly about certain aspects of the controversy swirling around Gov. Clinton." 
"Despite all our problems at home, we can never forget that we ask our presidents to lead the military -to bear the awful authority of deciding to send your sons and daughters in harm's way," he said. 
Bush, a Navy flyer shot down in World War II, said, "Does this mean that if you've never seen the awful horror of battle that you can never be commander in chief?" 
"Of course not. Not at all," said Bush, who followed non­combatant Ronald Reagan into the White House. "But it does mean that we must hold our presidents to the highest standard." 
Clinton, who watched Bush's speech on television before arriving at the hall, rearranged his schedule to be on hand to respond to Bush directly. But he ended up ignoring the president's swipes. 
"I will never allow a hollow army," Clinton vowed. "We still must have the best-equipped and best-trained military to meet today's threats," he said, echoing Bush's own remarks. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUJ)Y PROGRAMS 

fOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Wednesday, September 16 7:00pm Room 204 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning slullents will he on hnnd to answer 11ucstions 
Gender Studies invites you to attend a lecture by and workshop with 
Micaela di Leonardo 
"Gender, Ethnicity, and the Temptation of American Invented Traditions" 
Thursday, September 17 
4pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Pedagogical Workshop with Professor di Leonardo in attendance will be beld 
Friday, SepL 18 
II am 
Fosler Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Micaela di Leonardo is Associare Professor of Anthropology at Northwestern University. She is the 
aurhor of TM Varirtirs of Ethnic E:c~ri~na: Kilaship, ClasJ, and Grndl'r among California Italian· 
A""'ricatu (Comclt Univer.;ity Press, 1984) and edi10r of Gendrr at the CmsmHJds of Knowledge: Feminist Anthropology in the Postmo<krn Era (University of California Press. 1991 ). She has !aught 
in Women's Studles programs at Yale. Oberlin and Northwc~tem. 
Co-Spolll50f'ed by the Departmrnl of Anthropolocy 



W!\.$tUN.G'l'ON,•·.. ·OtN · Business executive Ross Perot today said the e~Qnon:tic· strategies .(lffered by · both presidential candid~tes are. not specific ~nough and urged. them to present ."hard plans that people will buy/'. 

Perot: eandidates' economic?strategies not specific enough for American voters 
....,.t:The thing .tp~Y ~lways ' ji(lderestimate is how.smart the American people are,'' Perot.s~:tid. "The American )people l.mdersta:nd what's going on. They understand .. sham~. and fine$ses. and so 
··far these plans are soft." 
The Dallas data processing ·billiol).aire who flirted·· spectaeularly·with making an independent run for the White House oti~t~ ···•·•·•···· · minus 4 percentag~ points • .;;:· his assessment in an "I don't want to be interview on ABC's "Good negative, l do want to be Morning America;;'\... i it< constructive,'' Perot said. 

The interview came as a ,,.,, 'They need to come down Washington Post-ABC News with hard plans that people poll found :One (}ut ()fslx will buy." voters saying they would He said the plan cast their ballots for Perot presented by Bush last even though he suspended '' week "was soft,. it was his campaign in July. In the eonceptual ... " He said he survey, it was Democrat Bill could not tell if salary cuts Clinton . 45 .. perc::ent, for top government officials President Bush 33 percent; under Bush's plan would and Perot 16 percent. include elected office 
Without Perot as a choice, holders. "That needs to be it was Clinton 54 percent· reworked," he said. and Bush 39 percent in the "I think it is a mistake to Sept. 9-13 telephone poll by say,read my lips and never, ICR Survey Research. The never," Perot said. error margin was plus or 
Best Buddies Organizational Meeting lVednesday,SepteiOber16th 7p.m. at the esc Note: only attend ifyou missed the first meetingContact Bonnie Tyler x4023  

Ill ALUMNI SENIOR ~CLUB Alumni Senior Club presents Grad Night all Fridays during non...home football game weekends. featuring this week the graduate student band ''WAY PAST TENSE'' must be 21 years old 9,2  

Environment 
Wednesday, September 16, 1992 page 7 
Being "green" means living simply 

First of all, let's get one thing clear. You don't have to be "crunchy" to consider your­self an environmentalist. You don't need to change your hair or your clothes ...just your habits. 
Start small-don't try to save the planet all at once. It all adds up. You've probably heard the phrase, "Think globally, act locally." That's all it really means. Little things like re­cycling and turning off the lights when you leave a room, or turning off the water while you're brushing your teeth, really do make a difference. If everyone paid attention to the little things they do that waste our planet's resources, the sum of all of these little efforts would have a profound effect on our envi­ronment. 
The fact is, every American produces five pounds of trash per day. While Americans make up only about five percent of the world's population, we use 25 percent of the world's energy. Much of this waste can be easily eliminated. 
The idea of "green consumerism" plays a large part in the trimming of this excess. When you shop, buy products which are re­cyclable and use recycled materials in their packaging. Avoid excess packaging. It may look nice on the shelf, but let's face it, you're just going to throw it away. Buying products in bulk not only saves you money, it also cuts down on packaging. Avoid single-serving products, and stay away from disposable products when you have a choice. 
Now, you might be thinking that that sounds a little too simple, and you're right, it is. While a change in your habits will effect the trend of environmental degradation we see, it isn't quite enough. It's important to see the inter-connection of different environmen­tal problems and how they fit into the "big picture." 
Environmentalists are sometimes criticized for trying to save the world at the expense of humankind, but in reality this could not be further from the truth. Strict policies and regulations advocated by "green" groups are aimed not at restricting individual or corpo­rate freedoms, but at ensuring a safe and comfortable planet for future generations to enjoy. 
Environmental goals and economic well­being do not have to be conflicting issues. For example, the entire field of renewable energy research and development promises a favor­able economic impact. In general, common sense tells us that saving resources means saving money. 
Basically, the message is: Be Aware. Be aware of what you are doing to affect the world around you, and be aware of what others are doing as well. Make a change to impact your environment more favorably, and encourage others to do the same. LIVE SIMPLY, SO THAT OTHERS MAY SIMPLY LIVE. 
Julie Robinson and George Smith are co­presidents ofStudents for Environmental Ac­tion, which meets Sunday nights at 7:00p.m. in Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. 

•KANSAS CITY, Mo. -An explosion and fire· at a chemical plant Sept; 8 killecl three people. authorities said. The explosion occurred shortly 
before 1 p.m. at Chemtech Industries Inc. in the far northeast part of the city. If wasn't immediately known what business Chemtech Industries is involved in. 
Grants save energy, dollars 
•INDJANAPOLtS 4Lieutenant Governor Frank O'Bannon announced last week that the Indian Department of Gori1xtun·ce a~d ttw 1), ~. Department of Energy will award $702, 929 ! energy conservation me4sure graJits to ~ schools and hospitals tb.:toughouflnQiana~ According ·t«:i. O'Bannon~ the· grilonts vdUbel Indiana. schools and hospitals. conserve energy. 
.·:.:.:: 

ND power plant meets regulations 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Energy at Notre Dame is produced by a cogenerating power plant that operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year on a scale incomparable to the average residence, according to John DeLee, director of utilities. 
The power plant is basically a heating plant, designed to keep campus buildings warm, said DeLee. It uses coal, gas and oil in a process of heat co-generation. 
"In a standard plant, that heat would be wasted, but on our campus it goes to heat dorms," he said. 
Emissions from the plant are "standard emissions from boilers," said DeLee. However, "our boilers are more efficient so you don't have as many losses as you do with smaller boilers," he continued. 
The plant must comply with federal and state regulations, which are "many and varied," said DeLee. The plant is inspected every two years and has not had to make any modifications so far. 
The new Clean Air Act has forced many larger plants to make changes, but it has not touched the ND plant. However, the act calls for states to make individual regulations, and the University plant "probably will be affected by that." 
Along with providing heat for the campus, the also supplies air conditioning to campus buildings through chillers, steam turbine driven machines that pump cool water to air conditioning units. The has 13,300 tons of chilling capacity, "which is a lot, said DeLee. 
The plant also maintains an energy management system, which looks for problems in the system and provides the controls for decreasing the heat supplied to dorms at night, said DeLee. 
The energy cut back program was installed in 1978 . . , Observer file photo with a loan of over a million dollars from the The Unrvers1ty s power plant, located west of Stepan Center, operates government. According to DeLee, setting back the o~ a 24-ho~r a day and 3~5-day a year basis, providing Notre Dame thermostat at night saved over $300,000 the first With approximately half of Its power needs. 
year of the program and more every year since. 
The power plant supplies about half of the electricity used by the University while the rest is purchased from Indiana and Michigan Power Co. The plant is in the process of relocating a substation, presently located by Fischer Graduate Housing, in order to increase the capability to buy more electricity at a higher voltage, said DeLee .. 
The switch will take about three years to complete, but the conversion will provide more reliable and cheaper energy, he continued. 
Superfund program failing to do its job 
Editor's note: This is the first in a three-part series examining the federal Superfund program. Follow­ing are excerpts from a letter written by Jan Edelstein, director of the Na­tional Environmental Trust Fund. 
Ironically, in an election year where change is discussed so vigorously, policy failures are under attack and environmental issues are so prominent, there has been a marked lack of attention to one of the largest, costliest, and least effective environmental programs in this nation's history: Superfund. 
The law is up for reauthorization in the next Congress and is likely to be the environmental issue for the new Congress and a new or revitalized Administration in 1993. Environmen­talists, local officials, citizens, and the business community are all dissatis­fied with the current program. 
The federal Superfund program was enacted in 1980 to promote rapid and long-term cleanup of our nation's worst hazardous waste sites. After 12 years, it has proven to be a dismal failure. Only 84 of the over 1,200 sites on the National Priorities List (NPR) have been completely cleaned up. 
Billions of public and private sector dollars have been spent. Nearly 20,000 potentially responsible parties (PRPs) have been ensnared in a morass of Superfund litigation. And hundreds of communities are struggling with the economic and environmental consequences of delayed cleanup and endless legal wrangling over Superfund sites within their borders. 
Superfund has failed so terribly in part because it was crafted to solve what was thought to be a modest, relatively inexpensive problem. In fact, the scope and cost of hazardous waste cleanups vastly exceeds what anyone imagined. Yet, Superfund is still trying to raise cleanup funds through the system designed for the original problem. 
Congress hoped to make individual "polluters" pay for cleanup and so gave EPA extraordinary powers to raise money by establishing in­dividual liability on a site-by-site basis. The system has turned out to be completely inadequate and inappropriate. 
Virtually everyone involved in the program is decrying its waste and ineffectiveness, voicing what is painfully evident after twelve years: the program is broken and needs to be flxed. 
Without question, Superfund is the upcoming, hot environmental issue. Raising it with our elected and would­be elected officials during this campaign is timely and relevant to determining their ability to ensure that Superfund meets its cleanup goals quickly and cost-effectively. 
Controversy arises over Great Lakes' water 
MARQUETTE, Mich. (AP)-Long unused as a natural resource ex­ploited for profit or export, Great Lakes water now claims government protection as the "gold of the next century." 
Michigan has 3,200 miles of shore­line on four of the five Great Lakes. Nicknamed "the Great Lakes state," Michigan seems to be taking a leading role in the fight to preserve the resource. 
"Water is the gold of the next cen­tury," said Glenda Daniels, executive director of the environmental group Lake Michigan Federation. "We al­ready have a job drain away from this region, and ifwater is going to control where people are, we want to bring jobs back here. 
"We don't want to send our water away to support jobs somewhere else." . 
The eight U.S. states bordering the lakes -Michigan, Wisconsin, Min­nesota, Illinois, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Indiana -signed the Great Lakes Charter in 1985. 
The agreement ensures the states will confer with one another before granting any requests for diverting Great Lakes water. 
A year later, the United States bol­stered that with the Water Resources Development Act. That requires di­version measures to meet unanimous approval from all eight Great Lakes states. 
In May, Michigan Gov. John Engler used that veto power to block water diversion from Lake Michigan to Lowell, Ind. 
The town of 6,400 about 25 miles from Lake Michigan's southern shore had sought lake water to dilute its fluoride-soaked drinking water. The town had been ordered by the Environmental Protection Agency in 1987 to fmd another water source. 
"We feel any out-of-basin diversion must be done only as a last measure and then only in cases of imminent danger to public health, safety and welfare," he said in a news release. 
-----~ ------------~~-~-----------------------------­
Viewpoint 
PageS Wednesday, September 16, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...........•.........• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in~Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Information is provided about virus protection 
Dear Editor: 
The Sept. 9 story on the Michelangelo virus found on a computer at the Law School raised questions concerning virus protection available at Notre Dame. 
The information provided below addresses virus protec­tion. Further information can be obtained by calling the In­formation Resource Center at 239-8111. 
Anti-virus programs are available which are specifically designed to detect and elimi­nate computer viruses. 
No anti-virus program can claim absolute protection from virus damage, as new viruses or strains (variations of previ­ously discovered viruses) con­tinue to appear on an almost daily basis. 
The Office of University Com­puting has researched several of the leading anti-virus pro­grams and currently recom­mends McAfee Associates Vir­uScan for DOS computers and Disinfectant for Macintosh computers. 
Both of these programs are available free of charge to stu­dents, through the Information Resource Center (IRC) in room 111 of the Computing Cen­ter/Math Building. If you own your own computer, we strongly encourage you to obtain some type of anti-virus program. 
It is important to stay current with the latest versions, to re­duce the possibility of being in­fected by a new virus. 
·If you previously obtained ei­ther ViruScan or Disinfectant, you should check the version number of the program you are 
DOONESBURY 

Demonstrators went too far People have a right to protest peacefully... 
currently using, as both of these programs have been updated over the past summer. ViruScan is currently at version 95, and Disinfectant is at ver­sion 2.9. 
To obtain either of these pro­grams, bring a blank diskette to the IRC and request either the DOS or Macintosh program. 
University faculty and staff should call the IRC to find out how they can obtain the latest versions of these anti-virus programs. 
All campus clusters adminis­tered by the Office of University Computing continually monitor diskettes used in the cluster for the presence of viruses. 
If you are concerned that one of your diskettes may have been infected with a virus, you may visit any of the clusters and re­quest that your disk be scanned for a virus. 
This is actually a requirement to use any of the DOS comput­ers in the Hesburgh Library, Hayes-Healy or DeBartolo clusters, and is done automati­cally on Macintosh computers in the clusters. 
To further protect your data against viruses or any other damage, always make a backup copy on a separate diskette of any work you cannot afford to lose. 
If you have further questions or concerns about viruses please call the IRC at 239-8111. 
Denise Moser Marilyn Van Bergen Office of University Com­puting Sept. 1 0, 1992 
Dear Editor: 

The presidential candidate of one of the U.S.'s two major po­litical parties spoke on campus Sept. 11. 
Unfortunately, some members of the Notre Dame community chose to extend a less-than­gracious welcome. 
As an ardent advocate of the First Amendment, I believe people have an absolute right to peacefully protest and express their views. Those persons who stood outside Stepan Center and displayed signs or distributed literature or discussed their views with others have my full respect and support for the exercise of their freedom to speak. 
But those who, having en­tered the hall, sought to disrupt the candidate's speech merely "demonstrated" their complete lack of understanding of the true meaning of freedom of speech. 
When anyone, minority of majority, seeks to shout down, drown out, or silence other speakers through intimidation, heckling, or other tactics, we as a community should stand in condemnation. 
Such behavior is never the exercise of free speech, it is its suppression. 

Notre Dame, as an institution devoted to knowledge, should not condone such acts. The majority pf the Notre Dame community conducted itself admirably today. 
Unfortunately, the television screens of America will reflect the intolerant, immature, and unprofessional behavior of the few. 
Those who acted this was, whatever the cause they espouse, should be ashamed. 
Daniel 0. Myers Law School Sept. 11, 1992 
.. .but disruption of speech was intolerable 
Dear Editor: 

During Bill Clinton's speech Friday, I was appalled by the behavior of Notre Dame's Right to Life group. 
They were rude, intolerant and immature. The result of· their behavior was to turn me, and many other people, against the Right to Life group. 
While waiting in line outside before the speech, the Right to Life group distributed tasteful pamphlets welcoming Clinton and explaining their point of view. 
The literature and posters demonstrated to all present that the Right to Life group is against Clinton's views on abortion. This should have been an adequate demonstra­tion. 
The group became offensive when Clinton began his speech, however. Throughout his speech, they yelled, booed, and often prevented both Clinton from speaking and the crowd from hearing. 
Notre Dame is supposed to be a liberal arts school. An impor­tant part of that is being toler­ant and listening to all the sides of an issue. 
Not only did the Right to Life group turn deaf ears to Clin­ton's many other viewpoints on issues other than abortion, but they prevented the 2000 other students and staff present from listening to him. 
I am well aware of the Right to Life's opinions; let me hear the presidential candidate's opinions, since I have the right to make an informed decision. 

Many other people feel the way I do. They are all embar­rassed by the behavior of the Right to Life group. They por­trayed Notre Dame as rude children, not willing to listen nor allowing opposing points of view. 
Previously, I had felt ambiva­lent to both pro-life and pro­choice groups, but after this display I feel too embarrassed and disgusted to side with Notre Dame's Right to Life group. 
Beckie Brothers Notre Dame Staff Sept. 12, 1992 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


Accent ­
September 16, 1992 Page9 

Tesla brings 'Psychotic Supper' to South Bend 
Heavy metal rock band, named after a scientist, performs tonight at the JACC 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, Life, Whatnot 
Longing For The TV of Our Youth 
G 
reg Brady was never my favorite 
Brady son. 

In fact, Peter was much cuter. Especially after the perm. Lenny and Squiggy always kind of repulsed me, in a cute sort of way. 
What ever happened to the television of the 70s and early 80s? Can shows like "Blossom" and "Alf' truly replace "Diff'rent Strokes" and "M.A.S.H." in the hearts of America? 
I think not. 
I grew up as a disciple of the boob tube. Year after year, my parents would try to set limits on the amount of time I spent glued to the set. But it didn't work. I was hooked. 
"The Bugaloos" fascinated me. "Sigmund the Sea Monster" made me laugh. I wanted to be either Electra Woman or Dyna Girl. 
Waking up extra-early guaranteed time to watch the end of Gary Gnu's newscast on "The Great Space Coaster." Wasn't life great? 
But afternoon TV was just as good. Maybe even better. 
From "Bosom Buddies" with Tom Hanks and Peter Scolari to "Good Times" with Jimmy Walker (a.k.a. Kid Dynomite), afternoon television in the 70s couldn't have been better. 
Remember sitting in front of the TV watching "The Facts of Life" or "Three's Company," ready at any given moment to change the channel if Mom walked in? I never really understood why Mom didn't think Jack Tripper should live with two women, but I figured if she didn't like it, it had to be good. 
Even game shows were great. "Tic Tac Dough's" Wink Martindale and Richard Dawson of "The Family Feud" entertained and wooed countless American women. 
Saturday mornings would not have been the same without television-most importantly, "Schoolhouse Rock" on ABC. There was some kind of great satisfaction in watching that bill sit on Capitol Hill and become a law. 
From "Conjunction, junction, what's your function?" to "Lolly, lolly, lolly, get your adverbs here," the phonics and grammar skills of America's youth were forever improved. 
The original "Captain Caveman" and the "Superfriends" could hold their own against a Ninja Turtle any day. Between Wonder Woman's invisible jet and "Wonder twin powers, activate," the world was theirs to conquer. 
Musical television was always close at hand. The words "originality, style and showmanship" would never be the same after being first uttered by Denny Terrio, and how could lipsinc have become such a staple of American life without the help of Alan Faucett and "Puttin' on the Hits?" 
Marilyn McCoo and the Solid Gold dancers brought disco to new heights, as Donny and Marie squabbled over country vs. rock 'n' roll. 
Nighttime TV was always classic. "Charlie's Angels," "The Love Boat" (how did Dr. Bricker get all those babes?) and "Fantasy Island" all shaped and molded us into the people we are today. OK, maybe not. 
But it does appear that the television of our youth is making a comeback. 
How else can you explain the success of Barry Williams' book "Growing up Brady?" Or the fact that Donny Osmond is starring in the current musical "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat"? 
Re-runs of our favorites are forever popular, and we're always interested in the latest scandals involving the Drummond and Brady kids. 
It's time to re-vamp American television. The desire of the American public is there. How hard could it be? After all, as the Brady's say: "When it's time to change ... " 
Jahnelle Harrigan is Accent Editor for The Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Music Critic 
The last year has been a tough one for Tesla. 
A band which claimed several major pop-rock successes since 1988 suddenly disappeared on the radio, as new musical icons, fertilized by Nirvana and Lollapalooza, sprouted from the west coast. 
But Tesla hasn't been forced to sell its equipment-yet. While Pearl Jam and Red Hot Chili Peppers are this season's talk among the masses, Tesla's Psychotic Supper has quietly reached the top 15 of the Billboard album chart and sold a mildly impressive 500,000 copies. The band's three previous albums were platinum sellers. 
Tonight, Tesla will play in the south dome of the JACC. The band comes to South Bend after shows in Noblesville and Evansville kicked off September. 
The group's gimmicky reverence of scientist Nikola Tesla, inventor of the Tesla coil and, according to Tesla­sponsored propaganda, the radio, has grown quite old in the days since their first major album, Mechanical Resonance, gave the band national attention. 
Tesla continues to acknowledge the work of the scientist, and their own astute acknowledgement of it, with at least one song per album. This trend is continued on Psychotic Supper. 
The album's most megalomaniacal song, "Edison's Medicine," is a misdirected monologue about Nikola Tesla's devotion to science, despite the 
Tesla is already well on its way to the same flavor-of­the-month obscurity into which Great White, Warrant, Winger, and Whitesnake fell. 
scarcity of material rewards for those in his profession. 
Whether correct or not, the par­allels Tesla likes to draw between itself and the man after which it is named are simply ridiculous, self­aggrandizing poses which parallel Spinal Tap more closely than Nikola Tesla. 
But despite the laughs that can be drawn from Tesla's work, the band's core supporters remain willing to buy their product. Tesla is already well on its way to the same flavor-of-the­month obscurity into which Great White, Warrant, Winger, and Whitesnake fell. 
Tesla's opening act, Firehouse, looks like it, too, is headed down that road. After "Baby, Don't Treat Me Bad," the group vanished into the hair spray vortex created by Poison and Bon Jovi. 
Hopefully, fans won't confuse Firehouse with the infinitely more talented FIREHOSE, the veteran Los Angeles trio led by virtuoso bassist Mike Watt, which signed a major-label contract last year. 
Tesla's JACC concert is its third Indiana date on the current tour, which has recently bounced the band around the northeast quadrant of the United States. In addition to dates in Noblesville and Evansville, Ind., Tesla played Chicago's World Music Theater, the same venue catering to the U2 extravaganza this week. 
Tickets for Tesla and special guest Firehouse are still on sale for $17.50 from the JACC box office. 

·---------~-~--------------~--------­
page 10 The Observer Wednesday, September 16,1992 
the game. 

-Marten Soccer Thompson cut by CardinalsNotre Dame's defense was equally impressive Tuesday TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -The 68 touchdowns during his
continued from page 16 continued from page 16 night, holding the Crusaders to 
Phoenix Cardinals on Tuesday college career at Indiana. 
just three shots on goal, while
That is the sport of cross waived running back Anthony But after holding out during
including freshman Ben 
country in a nutshell. There's the Irish fired 36. Thompson, their 1990 second­preseason camp, Thompson
Ketchum and sophomore Keith 
one more thing that you should "Our guys did a decent job round draft pick. was overshadowed in his rookie 
Carlson. 

know about cross country at out there," Berticelli said. Thompson saw action in the year by Johnny Johnson, the
"Carlson has gotten some 
season opener at Tampa Bay, Cardinals' seventh-round draft
Notre Dame. Our teams are "They were out there working
more time lately and were try­carrying eight times for eight pick who was selected for the
pretty good this year. hard and they did some good
ing to give Ketchum more of a yards, but he did not play in Pro Bowl that season.
Impress your friends with things in tough conditions." 
look," Berticelli said. "And they Sunday's home opener against Thompson gained 390 yards in 
your knowledge of the sport Notre Dame faces LaSalle
both looked pretty good Philadelphia. 1990 in 13 games and 376and see some excellent Friday night at Alumni field. Thompson was the runner-up yards last season, when he
tonight."
runners. Grab your Nikes for 

The game is set to start at 7:30 for the Heisman Trophy in 1989 started only four games and
Carlson assisted sophomore
invitationals at Burke Memoria p.m. after scoring an NCAA-record scored one touchdown.
Jason Fox for the last goal of
September 25 and October 2. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
HUNGRY LIKE THE WOLF OJ SERVICE 
PROVIDING A WIDE VARIETY OF MUSIC STYLES TO SUIT ANY EVENT. 
CALL KEN AT 277-4103 FOR 
MORE INFORMATION AND ASK 
ABOUT THE LIMITED TIME $25 
OFF OFFER 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of · 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 
287-4082 
Need Math help? Experienced 
tutor, all levels-Joe 2711532 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! 
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard 
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
GROUPS! GROUPS! GROUPS! 
Groups are now starting at the University Counseling Center for students interested in enhancing self-esteem, dealing with relationship concerns, recovering from an eating disorder, coping with others alcohol or drug abuse/ use, graduate students in need of support and more. Call UCC at 239­7336 for details. CALL NOW! 
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING 
BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, 
CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST 
COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO 
FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN 
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet. Possibly in NOH or Loftus. Huge sentimental value. If found please call271-7288. REWARD 
LOST: Men's black Seiko dress watch between library circle and fifth floor Flanner. Please call Gerald at X3692. 
A camera was found outside of Stepan prior to the Clinton wonderful Clinton speech. If you lost a camera, call and describe it and it's yours. 283-2016 
WANTED 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. 
UNIQUE, PART-TIME, INCOME OPPORTUNITY. Seeking a creative, competitive marketing person to represent a new, low cost product to people searching for a new career. For interview call 234­1171,8am-5pm. 
BONNIE DOON 
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR 
SERVERS, COOKS AND 
FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka Needed: 2 Women's Lacrosse stix. Good condition. Reasonable prices. Call Polly or Danielle 284-5504. 
EXTERIOR PAINTERS 
Experienced Student Painters 
needed to paint South Bend area 
homes. Full or Part Time. 
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 
1 (800)626-6267 
"painting America's homes coast to 
coast" 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!...Begin NOW!. ..FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
NEED RIDE TO MICHIGAN STATE 9/18 & ANY WEEKEND$ 284­5053$ 
I need a ride to Miami(OH.) 
University ANY weekend. 
Will help pay for gas. 
Call Brian x2081 
*'********************t***************• 
Need ride to Milwaukee/Area on 9/25. Will help pay gas/tolls. Please call Lisa 284-5200. 
WANTED 2 BUY: 2 GA TIX FOR 
ANY HOME GAME PLS CALL 
MARIA (716)256-2923 ASAP! 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM RENTALS. ALSO APT. & BEDROOMS.257-91 01. 
need to sublet turtle 
creek studio aprt. call Damien 283-1870 
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
2 room efficiency, private utilities paid, male preferred $7 a day. Call 288-0955 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
86 vw.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
STUDENT TIX BOOK 4-SALE. JENNIFER 284-5503. 
Sofa for sale.Piease call 258-0298 
TICKETS 
I NEED ONE STANFORD GA, 
THAT'S RIGHT ---JUST ONE. 
CALL ERIC AT 277-4103 WE NEED YOUR GAs WE ARE WILLING TO TRADE GAs WE ARE WILLING TO BUY YOUR 

GAs WE WANT TO HELP YOU KYLE 287-9118 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­MICH. A MUSTI ALUMNI IN DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843­6947. 
I need GA's and/or Student tix for all or any game. Please call Aaron @ 271-2908. 
I need 4 BOSTON COLLEGE tix. PLEASE call Robin at x2867 if you have some to spare. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED 2 GA's AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS Call John X4478 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I need student and/or GA Purdue football tickets and Boston College GA football tickets; please call Dave at x4506. 
MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM 
NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS. THERE'S ONE WAY. SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, 
PENNGA'S! CALL ERIN 284-5128. 
HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM 
(609) 769-0721. 
WANTED: STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S WILL PAY$$$ ! 
PLEASE CALL TODAY! DANIELA 284-4346 OR BOB 283-1 090 THANKS I 
NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC GA. CALL X2805 
PLEASE SELL ME 2 GA TIX FOR PURDUE. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs WANNA TRADE? Call Brei (me) at 1248. I love you. 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL X3625 
Need 2 tickets-GAs-for Oct. 3 Stanford game. Call Angela 283­4058 
NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG $ Call Sam Collect (0)908-687-1330 (N)201­376-9427 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ I Need 2 BYU GA's $ $ Patty x4637 $ $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Alumni needs 
2 PURDUE GA's Please Help. Call Maria x1347 
I need 2 Stanford GA's. 
Andrew-1881 

I HAVE 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA's 
-Vince x1251 

I have 2 Stanford GAs-call 
Gabrielle at 283-3023 
Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call 283­
4519. 

Need Penn St. Tix 
Tony x1786 

Help ou I the NO Family 
We need tickets to any and or all HOME GAMES (GAs) Kyle 287-9118 
I need 2 Stanford GA's 
Call Chris X2727 
I NEED 5 PURDUE GA'S and I'm 
rich enough to buy and sell you! 
Call Joe-x1854 
NO Parents need 2 Stanford G.A's Will Pay Big $$ Meg x2985 
HAVE: 1 BYU st; NEED: 1 BYU GA! ERIC or JASON-273-2941!! 
player needs many PU GAs and 
2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 
Need Purdue and Stanford GA's. 
Money no object. Ron x2001 
NEED BYU TIX! WENDY X1264 
SELLING 4 PURDUE GA'S 
HIGHEST OFFER BY 9/17. 
CALL DANNY AT: 
273-2856 

NEED 3 STAN GA'8--WILL PAY BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ 
NEED STANFORD FEM. STUD. TICKET. JAY X1528 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 
7 BC game. Please call x3799. 
Thanks. 
HELP I 

NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S 
CALL JOE X1560 
I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and 
Penn State. 283-4607. 
MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK 
FOR SALE BOB 287-9118 
NO ID REQUIRED NO ID REQUIRED 
BOSTON COLLEGE SUCKS! 
So why don't you sell me your tickets? Call Delli 283-1693 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716 
STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE CALL X1547 TONY OR MARK 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAMES 277-1659 
Need Purdue Tix, will trade SYR date I 
-Scot# 4013 
Need GA's for all home games 
Brian 273-8368 
Need GA's for all home games 
Kim 284-4401 
••••• LOOK ••••• I need stud tic packets & GA's all games. JASON 233-4008 
Need 1 Stanford GA-Trade for 
Purdue GA call 3351 
NEED TO TRADE 
2 STANFORD GA'SFOR 
2 BCGA'S 
CALL 283-4194. 
NEED 1 Penn State GA -x3958. 
Will provide "SPECIAL FAVORS" for Stanford tix!! You'll be glad you called! x4355 ask for Sheena the tigress! 
Need Stanford GA's 
Call Mike x1528 
I need BYU tixl!! Call Joel at 289­
5563 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GA's 
HAVE 2 GA's FOR STANFORD 
CALL X1234 
NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL 
SANDY AT 272-6194. 
Michigan State GAs for SALE will sell on Wed evening to best offer Michael 283-1161 
MSU (4) 50 yrd row 25 Call Bill 
1-517-351-0911 ext 831 
Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 
1-415-991-3416 call collect 
NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS!!! 
You want them. Badly. 
I have them. Two of them. 
Let's talk. 
Call Delli 283-1693 
WILL TRADE 2 BYU or 2 BOSTON COLLEGE STUDENT TIX FOR 2 STANFORD GA'S. CALL SEAN @X1213 
....NEED STUD TICKS .... NEED PURDUE STUD TICKS IN ORDER TO REALLY ENJOY THE GAMEl II CALL GREG X1857 
HELP!! I NEED 2 GA's FOR THE PENN ST GAME!! PLEASE CALL AT 277-5980 
I PERSONAL 
HeyNiff 
AMANDA KAY have a wonderful day 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! 
...CLUB23'.. TONIGHT! Quarter Cups! 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
Bee: Clue #2: a girl's best friend -Ryan 
Hungarians only claim they do it better. Italians are the men. 
Desperately need ride to/from Terre Haute or nearby this weekend (9/18). Will pay gas+$ & ben debt to u. Please call Clay x1188 . 

Happy 18th Birthday, Margie 
McCormack! Love, Your 
Roommates 

SENIORS: Are you disgruntled with dining hall food? Disheartened by the lack of stimulating conversation in your lives? Then join a Senior Rap-Up group! More info and sign­ups at the esc. 
MAUREEN TITLER-­

COME OUT OF THE CLOSET 
WITH YOUR HANDS UP!!! 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
MARGE 

when the screen door slams, does 
your dress sway? 

No draft dodgers for VICE 
PRESIDENT, either, for that 
matter... 
Hey! Hey! Hey! 

Lost: a cross made of nails, strung 
on leather. Tremendous 
sentimental value. Call Rex @ 
'1613. 
Hey! Hey! Hey! 

283-HELL needs Stanford GAs! 
P.S. We're two horny girls!!! 
HEY, ARE YOU A BIG FAN OF REJECTION MAN? DO YOU REALLY HAVE A CHOICE? BECOME A MEMBER OF THE NOW-FORMING REJECTION MAN FAN CLUB! CALL THE MOST REJECTED MAN ON CAMPUS, CALL ROCK@ 239-5303 FOR MORE INFO. 
ABSOLUTELY EVERYONE 
TURNED DOWN. 
Dx2 Haven! you learned? girls get WHATEVER they want! 
Give up the minor LP goddesses 

Attention! Earn $2500! Students, Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips At Your School! Spring Break 1-800­678-6386. 
SPRING BREAK '93 -SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREEl!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1-800-648-4849. 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
To the babe (Michelle) who called for a meatlover's in Dillon on Thursday night. Call me back. I do deliver. 
To Mr. BKN: 

You are one hot dude! Like I always say, "here today, Hot tamale"(hee, hee,hee)l Je t'aime, b~b~--Have a great day! 
love Princess 

To the women of 1632 TCC: 
I never knew that a few bottles of good wine could make such a difference in a weekend! 
BOONES FOREVERII!III! Have a good time at U2 tonight, I'll be thinking of you as I study. 
Love your wacky roomie 
. ..... ..... --.~----------------------·~~-.... ' --·-·---.. --------------------------·-------­

- 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Buffalo 2 0 0 Miami 1 0 0 Indianapolis 1 1 0 New England 0 1 0 N.Y. Jets 0 2 0 Central Cincinnati 2 0 0 Pittsburgh 2 0 0 Houston 1 1 0 Cleveland 0 2 0 Wast Denver 2 0 0 Kansas City 2 0 0 LA Raiders 0 2 0 San Diego 0 2 0 Seattle 0 2 0 NATIONAL CONFERENCE East W L T Dallas 2 0 o Philadelphia 2 o o Washington 1 1 o N.Y. Giants 0 2 0 Phoenix 0 2 o Central Tampa Bay 2 0 o Chicago 1 1 0 Detroit 1 1 o Minnesota 1 1 o Green Bay 0 2 0 Wast Atlanta o LA Rams o New Orleans 0 San Francisco o Sunday's Games Washington 24, Atlanta 17 New Orleans 28, Chicago 6 Dallas 34, New York Giants 28 Tampa Bay 31, Green Bay 3 Cincinnati 24, Los Angeles Raiders 21 OT Detroit 31, Minnesota 17 ' Kansas City 26, Seattle 7 Buffalo 34, San Francisco 31 Houston 20, Indianapolis 10 Los Angeles Rams 14, New England 0 Pittsburgh 27, New York Jets 1 0 Denver 21 , San Diego 13 Philadelphia 31, Phoenix 14 Monday's Game Miami 27, Cleveland 23 Sunday, Sept. 20 Cincinnati at Green Bay, 1 p.m. Denver at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. Kansas City arHouston, 1 p.m. New Orleans at Atlanta. 1 p.m. San Francisco at New York Jets, 1 p.m. Seattle at New England, 1 p.m. Tampa Bay at Minnesota, 1 p.m. Cleveland at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. Detroit at Washington, 4 p.m. Los Angeles Rams at Miami, 4 p.m. Phoenix at Dallas. 4 p.m. Pittsburgh at San Diego, 4 p.m. Indianapolis at Buffalo. 8 p.m. Monday, Sept. 21 New York Giants at Chicago, 9 p.m.  Pet. 1.000 1.000 .500 .000 .000 1.000 1.000 .500 .000 1.000 1.000 .000 .000 .000 Pet. 1.000 1.000 .500 .000 .000 1.000 .500 .500 .500 .000 .500 .500 .500 .500  PF 74 27 24 0 27 45 56 44 26 38 50 34 23 10 PF 57 46 34 42 21 54 33 55 40 23 37 21 41 62  PA 38 23 23 14 47 24 34 39 41 26 17 41 45 47 PA 38 27 40 65 54 10 52 44 51 54 41 40 21 48  AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division E..t Division w L Pet GB w L Pet GB Toronto 85 61 .582 Pittsburgh 83 60 .580 Baltimore 79 64 .552 4112 Montreal 80 64 .556 3112 Milwaukee 79 65 .549 5 StLouis 71 70 .504 11 New York 69 76 .476 151/2 Chicago 70 73 .490 13 Cleveland 68 76 .472 16 New York 65 78 .455 18 Detroit 67 77 .465 Philadelphia17 59 83 .415 231/2 Boston 65 79 .451 19 Wast Division Wast Division w L Pet. GB w AtlantaL Pet. GB 87 56 .608 Oakland 87 57 Cincinnati.604 78 66 .542 9112 Minnesota 80 San Diego64 .556 7 76 67 .531 11 Chicago 77 Houston67 .535 10 68 76 .472 191/2 Texas 70 76 San Francisco.479 18 64 80 .444 231/2 California 64 Los Angeles 79 .448 221/2 58 86 .403 291/2 Kansas City 63 80 Monday's Games.441 231/2 Seattle 56 88 .389 31 Philadelphia 6, Montreal 2 Monday's Games New York 1 0, Chicago 8 Chicago 8, New York 6 Pittsburgh 5, St. Louis 4, 10 innings Milwaukee 6, Boston 0 Houston 5, San Francisco 0 Baltimore 2, Kansas City 1 Los Angeles 5, San Diego 4, 11 innings Cleveland 2, Toronto 1 Only games scheduled Oakland 3, Minnesota 2 Tuesday's Games Only games scheduled Late Games Not lnduded Tuesday's Games New York 4, Chicago 2, 7 112 innings rain Late Games Not lnduded Cincinnati 4, Atlanta 2 ' Chicago 4, New York 2 Montreal 3, Philadelphia 0 Milwaukee 7, Boston 2 Pittsburgh at St. Louis, (n) Kansas City at Baltimore, (n) San Francisco at Houston, (n) Toronto 5, Cleveland 4 Los Angeles at San Diego, (n) Texas at Detroit, (n) Wednesday's Games Minnesota at Oakland, (n) Philadelphia (~ivera 5-3) at Chicago (Maddux 17-11), < California at Seattle, (n) Atlanta (P.Sm1th 5-0) at Cincinnati (Swindell 12-6), Wednesday's Games Montre~ (Nabholz 9-10) at Pittsburgh (Walk 9-5), Minnesota (Smiley 14-8) at Oakland (Witt 9-13), 3:15p.m. St. LoUis (Magrane 1-0) at New York (Hillman 2-0), California (langston 12-13) at Seattle (Johnson 11-13) San Franc1sco (Car:ter1-1) at Houston (Kile 3-10), Chicago (Hibbard 10-7) at New York (Hitchcock 0-0) ' Los Angeles (Cand10tt1 1 0-13) at San Diego (Benes 11­Milwaukee (Wegman 12-13) at Boston (Gardiner 4-1,0), 13), Kansas City (Haney 1-0) at Baltimore (Mussina 15-5), Thursday's Games Cleveland (Nagy 14-1 0) at Toronto (Stottlemyre 1 0-1 0), Philadelphia at Chicago, 2:20p.m. Texas (Pavlik 4-2) at Detroit (Doherty 5-4), 7:35p.m. Atlanta at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. Thursday's Games Montreal at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Milwaukee at Boston, 7:35 p.m. St. Louis at New York, 7:40 p.m. Cleveland at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Only games scheduled Minnesota at California, 10:35 p.m. Only games scheduled TRANSACTIONS FOOTBALLBASEBALL OTIAWA SENATORS-Announced that the National Football LaaguaAmerican Laagua Thunder Bay Thunder Hawks of the Colonial GREEN BAY PACKERS-Placed Mark .MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Acquired Mark Hockey League will salVe as their secondary D'Onofrio, linebacker, on injured rese!Ve. Hampton, pitcher, from the Texas Rangers affiliate and the city of Thunder Bay will beSigned Burnell Dent, linebacker. to complete an earlier deal that sent Edwin the location of their minor league training INDIANAPOLIS COL TS-Piaced AshleyNunez, pitcher, to Texas. Assigned Hampton and development oenter. Ambrose, defensive back, on injuredto Stockton of the California League. COLLEGErese!Ve. Signed Willis Peguese, defensiveSEATILE MARINERS-Purchased the BALL STATE-Named Mike Hill end.contract of Dan Howitt, outfielder, from administrative assistant for men's athletics. KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed DarrenCalgary of the Pacific Coast League. KENTUCKY-Signed C.M. Newton, athletic Mickel!, defensive end. Waived StephoneTEXAS RANGERS-Recalled Cris Colon director, to a new four-year contract throughPaige, wide receiver. infielder, from Tulsa of the Texas League'. June 30. 1996. National Laagua NEW YORK JETS-Signed R.J. Kors, safety. HARTFORD WHALERS-Signed MartinPlaced Jeff Lageman, defensive end, onCINCINNATI REDS-Moved their Class A injured reseiVe. · Hamrtik, defenseman, to a multiyearaffiliate from Cedar Rapids of the Midwest contract.TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Placed Randy League to Winston-Salem of the Carolina NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Sergei Grimes, center, on injured rese!Ve. League. Extended their working agreement HOCKEY Zubov, defeseman. with Charleston, W.Va. of the South Atlantic National Hockey LeagueLeague through the 1994 season. CALGARY FLAMES-Agreed to terms with BASKETBALL Theoren Fleury, forward, on a multiyearNational Basketball Association contract.DETROIT PISTONS-Signed Terry Mills, New Jersey _Nets forward, to an offer sheet.  



(including tips} 
~ Are 18 or older 
~ Hold a valid driver's lirense 
~ Have an insured automobile 
~ Have a good driving record 
~ Are friendly, enthusiastic & energetic 


We offer you: 
~Great pay 
~ F1exible hours 
~ Fme meal<; & unifonn'i 
~ Awanls for sail dri\'ing 

~ Clean & friendly workplare 
~ Challenging. fun work 

~ Pay increases twire a year ~Opportunity to purchase PepsiCo stock ~ Otild care discounts ~ Credit union ~ Great career opportunities 
~ Reirnlnu-sement allowanre (5/k P'" 'top! 
~ Paid vacation* 
~ Med.icaLUfc benefits* 

~ SharePower buying option~• 
• Not effecfi,·e first da_r t~f cmplo_mu~nl 
YOU DO BELONG W!TH THE BEST! 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT PRESENTS 
REV. ROBERT BARRY, 0.P. THE NEWMAN FOUNDATION UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
ON "THE PROBLEMS AND PARADOXES OF ASSISTED SUICiDE" FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
NOW OPEN IN MISHAWAKA 
SZECHWAN GARDEN 
Chinese Restaurant 
Daily Luncheon Specials Mon.-Sat. til MD pm Sunday Buffet 11:30-3:00 $795 
• 6 Entrees • Soups 
• Salads • Appetii.-s • Dlsserts 
Carry Out Service Available 
).....,! t{J llon.-T=~:JD-UI 
~ff Fri.-Sal 11:30-IB:JI s-lay II~ 
~....
~ 
Clal1111e R~•taur11111 


-
-
page 12 

-Free agency beckons 
Ozzie Smith may leave Cards 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -As the days dwindle down to a precious few in the 1992 season, All-Star shortstop Ozzie Smith is looking forward to free agency and perhaps severing his ties with the St. Louis Cardinals after 11 seasons. 
The Cardinals are expected to make Smith a contract offer for 1993 in the near future. But Smith's tired of waiting and would just as soon test the market to see what it will bear for a 37 -year-old shortstop who can hit for average, steal bases, cover a lot of ground in the field and generally defy Father Time. 
Smith wants a multiyear deal and the Cardinals, as they were last winter, are said to be interested only in taking it a season at a time. 
"I never really wanted to test the market," Smith said. "But I think sometimes, as in this case, you're forced to do it. 
"Having gone as far as we've gone now, why not? Why not find out what other people think of you?" 
Smith already knows what the St. Louis fans think of him. Last month a "Save Ozzie" rally was held near Busch Stadium and hundreds of fans attended. A newspaper poll also indicated overwhelming support for signing Smith. 
But with about three weeks to go in the season, Smith is still waiting for the Cardinals to make their move. 
"I haven't heard anything," Smith said. ''I'm just sitting at home, waiting by the phone." 
If the Cardinals have anything in mind, they're not saying. 
General manager Dal Maxvill has been vocal about the Smith situation in the past, defending the Cardinals' decision to pick up Smith's option at $2 million for this season instead of giving 

Smith a two-or three-year deal 
because of Smith's age. 

In spring training he said the front office would assess Smith's contract situation in August or September after it got a chance to watch him play for several months. And just last Friday he said this about Smith: "I'll be talking with Ozzie or his representative here in the near future." 
Not anymore. 

"You won't hear anything more from me about Ozzie until it's resolved," Maxvill said Monday. "No comment." 
Actually, it would probably be wise for the Cardinals to wait until after the expansion draft in November to sign Smith. If they sign him now they would have to include him, as a player with 10 years major-league experience and five with the same team, on their 15-player protected list. 
If he declares free agency this fall, the Cardinals would be free to protect someone else. Smith's agent, Debbie Ehlman of St. Louis, said both parties have agreed to wait to announce any deal until after, the draft. 
"I haven't given that issue a whole lot of thought," Maxvill said, speaking of the team's free agents in general terms. 
What to do? "I don't know if they're going to do anything," Smith said. 
In the meantime, Smith is taking care of business. He may be 37, but he's finishing the season on a hot streak, going 14 for 29 in his last six games. He leads Cardinals regulars with a .301 average, is second in steals with 38 in only 45 attempts, and has made only seven errors. 

Li111ousinc {""f Priz'a/c Transportal ion SaZ>iL"c 
A \"dil.lbiL• For Bu ... i•w~s & Soci.1l Eng.1gvnwnh 
(2!9} 273-!234 ?a~ {2!9) 27!-0442 
P.O. Box 109 • Notre D11me, IN 46556-0lOlJ 
Very Reasonable Rates: $5.00 Anywhere within city limits $25. 00 per hour Equipped with Color Tv, VCR and Stereo 

--
COMU·~G NEXT WEEKEND!! 
24 Hou1· Concert Connection 277-1727-­

CLUB SHENANIGANS GEORGE TOWN SHOPPING CENTER 
277-1727 


AP Photo St. Louis Cardinal Ozzie Smith puts a tag on New York's Howard Johnson. Smith, who has played for the Cardinals since being traded from San Diego for Garry Templeton in 1982, is a free agent after this season. 
••• ALUMNI -SENIOR 
!CLUB 

THURSDAY NIGHT 
9~2 

Need we say tnore? 
The place to be for the "Class of '93" If you don't like crowds please don't come. 
must be 21 

Catch the Action! 

$. 1 
ftf'" ' 

Notre Dame vs. Michigan State September 19th 
Round trip bus transportation to Spartan Stadium (Buses leave at 9:30am from CCE) 
Tickets: $15 at the La Fortune Info Desk 

Student tickets to game available through StJB lottery September 15 

Wednesday, September 16,1992 The Observer page 13 
Nets must match Detroit for Mills 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP)­The Detroit Pistons continued a major roster shakeup with the signing of Terry Mills to an of­fer sheet on Tuesday. 
Mills, a former Michigan star, is a restricted free agent with New Jersey, so the Nets have 15 days to match the Pistons' offer, reported to be $10 million over five years. 
Willis Reed, the Nets vice president of basketball opera­tions, has said the club would match any offer Mills received. Chuck Daly, the Nets new coach, also has said he would like to sign Mills. 
Reed was on vacation Tues­day. 
"We've received the offer sheet," Nets senior vice presi­dent Jim Lampariello said. "We are reviewing it and checking out all our options." 
But Billy McKinney, the Pis­tons director of player person-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
nel, said he hoped the Detroit offer would be too high for the Nets to match. 
"We aren't disclosing the terms. But he won't have to worry about purchasing the latest Nintendo game," McKin­ney said. "But even if New Jer­sey does match this, it's just one of many moves we have on the drawing board. We intend to shake things up around here. We have contingency plans if this falls through." 
The way was cleared for the Pistons to make Mills an offer when Bill Laimbeer agreed to have his $1.9 million contract restructured by extending it one year. Laimbeer's coopera­tion was needed to free up more money under the NBA's salary cap of $14 million. 
After trading William Bedford and John Salley, and cutting guard Charles Thomas, the Pis­tons were about $650,000 un­

•ND/SMC 
women's lacrosse is still looking for members.· Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy at 283-4998. 

•The 
campus 2-person golf scramble win take place on September 27. The tountament is open to aU students, faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 

•Anyone 
interested in off-campus women's football should call Theresa Forst or Marianne Haggerty at 273-2388. 

•No 
Tae Kwon Do Club will hold practice Monday and Wednesday in the Fencing Gym at Gate 4 at the JACC. Questions? Call Tim Kalamaroo ·at 277-6797 or Matt at 283• 1777. 


HEY! 


der the salary cap. 
"This team has a winning tra­dition, and we're banking on that," McKinney said. "Laimbeer's offer is an exam­ple of the winning attitude around here." 
Mills, 24, who averaged 9 points and 5.5 rebounds last season, is a low-post scorer, something the Pistons have lacked since the days of Bob Lanier. 
"What Terry gives us is a guy who can score in the low post, something we haven't had in the last few years," McKinney said. "He also is a rebounder, a good passer, and a big guy who can also shot a 17 -footer when you need him to." 
"Terry would get substantial minutes with the Pistons, and possibly be a starter here." 
Detroit had hoped to work out a deal for a disgruntled Ha­keem Oljuwon of the Houston Rockets. But the Pistons' offer of Dennis Rodman and a first­round draft pick didn't com­pare with other offers the Rockets have on the table. 
The Pistons also covet Stanley 
Roberts, the Orlando Magic's 7­
foot center. 
Big Ten schools under financial aid probe 
CHICAGO (AP) -The NCAA will conduct its own probe of seven Big Ten schools that gave extra financial aid in non­revenue sports, delaying accep­tance of the conference's report on the matter, the league said Tuesday. 
"Our position is that we will 
ND/SMC Students 
Are you interested in working on a committee for Notre Dame/ St. Mary's relations? We need YOU! 
Call Brian 283-1069 or Heather 284-5103 
.. 

cooperate fully with the NCAA," said Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany. "We've shared all our information with the NCAA, and it is currently reviewing the situation." 
The NCAA is concerned about some inconsistencies over rea­sons why the extra aid was paid by Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Purdue and Wisconsin, the Chicago Tribune reported in its Tuesday editions. 
Michigan State, Northwest­ern, Ohio State were not in­volved. 

Purdue coach apologizes for comments about Cal 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Purdue's interim athletic di­rector apologized Tuesday to the University of California ~or the Boilermakers' reference to California football players arriving in straw hats a nd holding pieces of straw in their mouths. 
The Purdue coaching staff used the supposed slight as a motivation for the Boilermak­ers, who beat the Golden Bea rs 41-14 on Saturday. 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKET LOlTERY WINNERS 
751660  751508  752032  751993  751145  751880  751285  751601  751897  751484  751645  751367  
751681  751427  751547  751708  751582  751998  751112  751581  751804  751770  751557  752008  
752041  751149  751888  751680  752952  751806  751868  751511  751801  751834  751414  751501  
751194  751647  751638  751855  751308  751305  751263  751221  751325  751240  751690  
751010  751198  751733  751973  751887  751994  751836  751872  751095  751485  751898  ALTERNATES  
751883  751232  751111  751787  751614  751177  751622  751117  751498  751921  751421  
751179  751924  751444  751929  751261  751702  751342  751282  751574  751641  751244  751388  751435  
751927  751228  751902  751586  751015  751327  751969  751272  751652  751576  751509  752040  751216  
751369  751157  751253  752043  751259  751575  751288  751571  751863  751923  751243  751809  751635  
751233  751017  751306  751109  751634  751884  751326  751977  751459  751668  751679  751900  751265  
751280  751752  751915  751429  751102  751148  751772  751531  751201  751191  751340  751842  
751612  751329  751104  751032  751495  751442  751518  751867  751246  751100  751749  751025  
751793 751707 751415  751669 751950 751386  751559 751214 751684  751856 751621 751507  751488 751835 751438  751311 751256 751276  751700 751092 751632  751411 751972 751671  752020 751821 751931  751814 751029 751918  751697 751322 751140  751985 751758 751541  Alternates may arrive at 4:30pm  
751786 751443 751454  751587 751354 751545  751331 752022 751397  751334 751808 751396  751533 751503 751267  751161 751861 751279  751920 751657 751211  751825 751610 751688  751269 751563 751162  751845 751606 751167  751588 751464 751854  751337 751134 751682  for any available tickets.  
751768  751738  751955  751967  751115  751895  751732  751893  751734  752014  751520  751255  
751796  751838  751630  751933  751302  751981  751343  751812  751944  751019  751568  751817  
751943  751827  751407  751486  751229  751012  751558  751430  751496  751160  751928  751483  

751978 751432 752006 751946 751724 751358 751913 751715 751468 751600 751146 751569 751713 751030 751540 751725 751792 751284 751941 751850 751662 751689 751373 751119 751387 751659 752051 751922 751297 751190 751989 751781 751704 751926 751133 751785 751754 751800 751031 751163 751556 751497 751877 751129 751683 751658 751917 751953 751403 751751 751551 752011 751113 751490 751264 751281 751395 751744 751896 751826 
STUDENT UNION 801\RO

751839 751565 751829 752016 751136 751426 751195 751370 751355 751372 751988 751452 
• 

Winners may each purchase 2 tickets for $20 each on Wednesday, Sept. 16 from 3-4:30pm in Stepan Center. 
"No doubt there was a great deal of exaggeration involved in the whole affair," Purdue's John W. Hicks said in a letter to California athletic director Bob Bockrath. 
"Apparently, one or two play­ers may have had on cowboy hats (not straw)," Hicks wrote, "and a few may have been chewing stalks of grass. This news was passed along and grew and grew, until some be­lieved these random events were a planned stab at Purdue. 
"Hearing these stories, our football staff used it as a motivator with the team. I apologize for the whole affair," Hicks said. 
Bockrath said he investigated the incident and found it was "a fabrication" that was "unfair to our institution and our players." 
California coach Keith 
Gilbertson said he didn't hear 
anything about the incident 
until his father, a high school 
coach, called him after reading 
a story in a Seattle newspaper. 
"I told my dad, the ol' coach, that the straw hats never hap­pened," Gilbertson said. "I re­ally am offended by that. But, touche. You do whatever you do to motivate your football team. If you've got to do that, well that's fine." 

Purdue coach Jim Colletta 
said Thesday that "a lot of this 
is my fault." 

"Somebody ran in the locker 
room Friday afternoon and said 
he saw the California team get 
of the plane with straw hats on. J 
I mentioned it, and as the story 
went from person to person it 
got worse." 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 16,1992 
Wrecking Crew leads A&M Nittany Lions' McDuffie 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas sees much room for improve­times against Tulsa and the 
sentenced to rehab stint 
(AP) -"The Wrecking Crew," ment. Wrecking Crew picked it up. 
fifth-ranked Texas A&M's de­fensive unit, is off to another destructive start in dismantling opposing offenses. 
Well, almost. 
The Aggies struggled at times in their first two games, but the Tulsa Hurricane felt the full force of the Wrecking Crew last week. It hopes to give Missouri the same treatment on Satur­day. 
The rich history of the Aggies defense has started to work on the current crop of wreckers, headed by linebacker Marcus Buckley."You hear about all the players who have been great players in the Wrecking Crew," Buckley said. "Just to be a part of that defense makes you play better." 
Feeling the glare of former Wrecking Crew members pushing him on, Buckley played his best game of the season in a 19-9 victory over Tulsa. He had seven tackles -four behind the line -one ·sack, caused one fumble, recovered another and broke up a pass. 
"We started kind of slowly against Stanford and we didn't play well at LSU, but against Tulsa we had to realize that we're the Wrecking Crew and we had to rise to the chal­lenge," Buckley said. 
Linebacking mate Steve Solari 

"I don't think we're as good as last year but the season has a long way to go," Solari said. "We haven't peaked, that's for sure. We need to just work more on techniques and run­ning to the ball." 
The Aggies will take a 3-0 record to Columbia, Mo. They are trying to open the season 4­0 for the first time since 1978. 
The last time A&M held a No. 5 national ranking was Sept. 6, 1977 prior to a 41-3 loss to Michigan. 
The Aggies led the nation in total defense last season for the third time. A repeat by the Wrecking Crew this year would tie the Aggies with Auburn for the most seasons leading the nation in total defense. 
"This defense is getting better and they can be outstanding before the seasons ends," coach 
"You can't have one without the other," Toledo said. "When we aren't contributing, the other side has to be better. Against Louisiana State, they kind of struggled and we held our own. 
"Last week, we put them in jeopardy and they did a great job of holding them to just field goals. We could have lost that game if they hadn't done that." 
Slocum expects Missouri, coached by his close friend Bob Stull, will try to make a target of the Aggies' lofty national rank. 
"It helps them because the coaches coach better and the players play better," Slocum said. "They'll be saying, 'We'd better get ready for these guys. They're ranked No. 5 in the nation.' 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) ­A Penn State football player who admitted he took part in a brawl at an arts festival has been sentenced to rehabilita­tion for first-time, nonviolent offenders. 
O.J. McDuffie, a wide re­ceiver, was one of three Penn State players accused of joining in a fight that began early July 10. · 
He pleaded guilty Monday to two misdemeanors: disorderly conduct and failure to disperse after ordered by police. 
McDuffie, senior wide re­ceiver Rick Sayles and fifth­year cornerback Mark Graham, 22, were accused of roles in the fracas during the Central Pennsylvania Festival of the Arts. 
Police said McDuffie and Sayles interfered with officers 


O.J. McDuffie 
who were trying to break up the fight, which involved 30 to 50 people. 
Starting wide receiver Bobby Engram and Sayles were charged with felony burglary by State College police last month. Both waived their pre­liminary hearings and have been ordered to stand trial. No court date has been set. 
R.C. Slocum said. "I've been~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ill 
ALUMNI

pleased and a little surprised at how well they've come on. 
"Our coaches have done a
good job of trying to replace all those guys we lost from last year." 
One of the Wrecking Crew's biggestfansinSaturday'sgame
was offensive coordinator Bob Toledo, trying to mold his 
young offense into a balanced
attack. The offense struggled at 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 

Please submit a one-page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Monday, Sept. 21. Contact Mike at 239-5303 for more information. 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way~. ELECTRIC...THEN ACOUSTIC! 

..

SENIOR
cLuB
... 

s -­k
tart your wee 
off rl·ght! Lunch 
12 .. 2 this Friday 
must be 21 


w 
E 
D E L I 
v 
E 


R Just Call For Free Delivery 
Large 15 '' Pepperoni 
Pizza 
FRESH! 

FAST! ONLY 
HOT! 

699 

Call Now! 
end 
w 
E 
D 
E L I 
v 
E 
R 

FRESH! 
FAST! 
HOT! 

45 Remove a bottle 53 "Believe­top Not" 
Today
Wednesday, September 16,1 992 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Cross-word 
Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 

ACROSS 2& Mystic systems 54 Anthracite 29 Loop locale 55 May or Ann
1 Key letter 32 "'Behold--
59Galba's& Milne bear Horse," Peck successor 10 Made a movie &o Witty Indians? 

hole-in-one 33 Other, in Madrid &21mpend
14--ease (uncomfortable) 35 Abba of Israel &3 Unpopular egg part
15 Garage job 3& Saul's uncle &4 Fortification1& Palm of the 37 Scrap for an &5 Some Dada art 
hand inmate? && Kids' moms
17 Boring 40 French friend partners? &7 Up and about
41 Spheres 19 Soon 
43 Mellows 20 Bean type DOWN
44 Changsha is its 21 Like a capital 1 Chocolate tidbitbreezeway 

46 Huxley's "'-­
2 Brahms's "-­22 Band leader in Gaza" Rhapsody"Shaw 48 Cheat 

3 Stage offering so Rave's partner 23 Alloy-coated 

steel 4 Velar 51 Minn. team
25 Cooking 5 Had a little lamb direction 52 Thread material 
& Simple ditties? 70utlandish a Mind

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9"F~r-ajolly 
.:;+=::+:;.+:-"-! 1 o Greed 11 Nicaraguan music makers? 12 French saint: Dec. 1 13 Jutlander ~'"='+::+::-i 18 Author Rostov: "Eroica" ~::+:::+:-+=-! 22 P.l. native 24 Power source: Abbr. ~:::-t:'±:;:+.'--"!!"'1''!""!"!'~ 25 Former restaurateur Toots­___.__.__.__. 26 Birch bark 

Please take the time to register to vote. This week you can register at the North and South Dining Halls during lunch and dinner. 
-The Observer 

CROSSWORD 
page 15 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
WI-lEN '{00 T\·U~K 1-\0VJ WELL 
BI\5\C f>.I'PL\f>NCES WClR\<.., 
Ht.RD TO BELIEVE A.I'\'(Ol'{E. EVER 68'5 ON AN MRI'LA.t<tt. . 
~~~ 
Jlt··· 


4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Producing Charm with High Energy No. 0804 
Photons," Prof. James Wiss, University of Illinois, Urbana. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by the Physics Department. 
7 p.m. Science Placement Night presentation. Hayes-Healy auditorium. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
LECTURES Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Fall Lecture Series on Racism: Women's Voices, "Ain't Never Loved Before -Stories from the Streets and Brothers of Chicago." Edwina Gateley, minister, speaker, poet and writer. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's. 
3 p.m. and 7 p.m. Lecture, "Sex and Alcohol, Self-Esteem ­Finding Safety." Dr. Richard Keeling, nationally renowned speaker on HIV Disease/AIDS in the college age population. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Health Services at Saint Mary's. 
MENU 
54 Boast47 Ethyl ender 

Notre Dame 
s& Amneris's rival 

49 Humorist 57 Culmination 
Roast Top Round 
Rogers 58 Slave of yore 
Turkey Turnover w/Supreme Sauce 

51 Pulitzer Prize 60 Disguise the 
Baked Zucchini and Tomatoes
novelist: 1981 

gray hair 52 Dancer Montez &1 Historic period 
Saint Mary's 
Italian Bar

Get answers to any three clues 
Wings and Things

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 
Tomato Basil Haddock 

5656 (75¢ each minute). 

27 Little's forte 
28 Dance for tonsorial artists? 
29 Irascible hikes? 
30--Abdel Nasser 
31 Cat---tails 34 Half a deadly fly 
38 Kiln 39 Rarified 42 Skis between 
gates 

-
l 
l 
1 
j 

~-~~-----­

-Sports 
page 16 

Wednesday, September 16,1992 
JENNY 

Holtz explains closing minute of contest 
MARTEN 

By JENNY MARTEN place. I was aware of the rule the polls, Holtz was uncon­Associate Sports Editor (the clock starting after a cerned with the issue. penalty), but I did not know "Was that the final poll? Are 
On Top of Sports 

"Perfection at Notre Dame the clock was running at that they going to vote again?" is taken for granted. If you fail time. I just drew a blank and I Holtz asked the reporters in
C_r--c-o_u_n_t-ry-·.---1 to live up to perfection. people 
have a tendency to be disap-about the rule." ' bI pointed." Holtz did not want to punt With respect to the rest of 
e 


5 
-5 
-0
,____ 
can't tell you why I forgot the room. 
a VIa 

Notre Dame head coach Lou the ball because of injuries to the Michigan game, Holtz 
r 
J 
t t 
l I 
r 
· ·
entertainment optiOn 
"It only lasts twenty minutes?" my roommate questioned in disbelief when I asked her if she wanted to go to the men's cross country meet. 
"Yeah," I replied, "They shoot the gun. The guys run five miles and it's over." 
And thus I introduced two of my roommates to the the world of watching cross country meets. I dragged both of them over to Burke Memorial Golf Course on Saturday morning to watch the men race against Georgetown. 
I realize that there are a number of people at this school who have run on cross country teams in the past, but as a service to the rest of the people who have no clue what happens at a cross country meet or invitational, I present a guide to the sport of cross country. 
Understanding a cross country meet is quite simple. The sport has only one rule: run as fast as you can. You always know which individual is winning because, well, he or she is ahead of the pack. 
There is a twist in this, because although an individual can win the race, the meet is won by a team. Points are awarded for the first six members of each team who cross the finish line, but unlike most other sports, the team with the lowest score wins. 
Runners get the same number of points as the place at which they finish. For example, a runner who finishes first gets one point and a runner who finishes 16th gets 16 points. The more runners that a team has that finish well, the better a team's chance of winning the meet. An strong individual finish can never beat a solid team effort. 
Notre Dame's cross country coaches understand this and encourage a strategy of running in a pack for their teams. A Notre Dame individual may not lead the race all the way through, but the team will run together and slowly chip away at the leader. Hence, a good number of the Irish runners finish high and the teams usually do well in meets. 
Watching a cross country meet is not simple. You have two options. One, you can watch the start, wait around for about 20 minutes and then watch the runners cross the finish line. This option requires less work, but lets the spectator see only a portion of the race. 
The second option is more physically taxing, but it is also more fun. You watch the start of the race and then follow the crowd to various vantage points along the course including the finish. You crisscross the golf course as the runners in the meet run around the outside of it and at the vantage points you get to cheer for the runners as they go by. 
see MARTEN/page 10 
INSIDE SPORTS 
.....-W---iz-a-rd_o..,.f""'o_z_m-ay......,..le_a_v_e~c=-a-r~d:-s---, fense. 
see page 12 
•Penn State's McDuffie sentenced 
see page 14 
•Defense brings A&M fifth ranking 
see page 14 

Holtz thus summarized the reaction to the Irish's 17-17 tie with Michigan during his weekly press conference yes­
Lou Holtz
terday afternoon. He also going to play."
talked about the last minute "We run the draw pretty
of the game and the reasoning behind what happened. 
well so we ran a draw to "The changeover occurred 
Jerome Bettis and he picked quite rapidly and suddenly we 
up eight yards. We knew we had the ball with 1:05 to go," 
needed the first down so we said Holtz. "The first thing 
made the draw call to Reggie that went through my mind 
Brooks and he got the first was that we don't want to 
down. punt the ball and the second 
"This is where I made the thing was how were they 
mistake and this is the only 
On one series, Naden stopped three tough shots from freshman Bill Lanza, 
but he couldn't hold on and Palmer converted the loose ball from 15 yards out for his second goal of the game. 
Some untested players were in the middle of the action in the second half. 
see SOCCER/page 10 
both of the long snappers. Senior Lance Johnson injured a hand in last Wednesday's practice, while sophomore Mark Zat_aveski suffered a six-stitch wound in one hand which prevented him from snapping Saturday. Several times during the Michigan game, the snaps, according to Holtz "rolled back like a bowling ball" to punter Craig Hentrich. 
While many people around campus have plenty to say about the Irish's recent dip in praised the play of the Notre Dame defense in the game, but was not pleased with the number of times the Wolverines were able to convert on third down. 

"Defense was vastly im­proved in many areas," said Holtz. "We stopped the run better than anticipated and we showed more enthusiasm. 
"We knocked Elvis Grbac down more than he has been except for the Washington game. I thought we put good pressure on him." 
Irish assault Valparaiso to even record 
Palmer scores two; freshmen contribute 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

It was a muggy night at Alumni Field, and the Notre Dame men's soccer team mugged Valparaiso 5-1 for their second win of the season. 
Despite the slick and soggy conditions, the Irish appeared sure-footed as they jumped out to an early lead and never looked back. 
"It's difficult because everything is so slippery and that caused us to make some mistakes," Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli said. "But overall I thought we handled the conditions well." 
Led by junior Mike Palmer's two goals, the Irish continued the offensive assault that they began in Friday's 7-0 win over Illinois-Chicago. 
Palmer opened the scoring less than three minutes into the game, converting a throw-in from freshman Eric Ferguson. 
Sophomore Tim Oates continued the barrage 15 minutes later after he stole the ball from Valpo goalie Dan Naden and slipped a shot into the corner of the net. 
Kevin Pendergast notched the 26th goal of his career late in the first half on a shot from deep in the corner, giving the Irish a 3-0 lead and moving him into the top 10 on Notre Dame's all-time career scoring list. 
"I wasn't even aware of that," Pendergast said of his place on the charts. "I don't really think about it." 
His goal tuned out to be an important one, as the Irish came out sluggish in the second-half and Valparaiso looked like they might storm back. 
In fact, it was a goal by the Crusaders' Brian Thiel's goal at the 63:11 mark that seemed to wake up the Irish. 
"We should never have let that happen," Pendergast said. "The intensity that we played with after they scored should be there all the time." 
After the Valparaiso goal, the Irish played with renewed enthusiasm and reopened the shelling of the Crusader de­

By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
Strange things happen when a team anticipates a win. A team can becomes lazy and not play up to its potential. 
That's what happened Tuesday night to the Belles' volleyball team. After defeating Concordia University in straight games last season, 15-9, 15-9, 15-9, the Belles were shocked by the Cougars, 15-0, 15-13,15-11. 
In the first game, which took seven minutes, it was evident that Saint Mary's was looking for last year's Concordia team. 
"We were going to work on coming out strong and not letting up, but we didn't come out," explained coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
During the second game, the Belles played much better. But with many unnecessary service receiving errors, as well as blocking errors, Saint Mary's couldn't hold on to an early lead. 
"Andrea Salazar played great in the middle," said Schroeder-Biek. "We made their middle blocker stay put, but passing errors hurt us." 
In the third game, the Belles came alive and established an impressive 8-2 lead, but Concordia's Linda Pfeiffer served ten points in a row to give the Cougars the lead and ultimately the match. 
"We didn't show who we are in this match whatsoever," Schroeder-Biek said. 
This weekend the Belles will play in the Baldwin College Tournament where they should participate in at least four matches. 
"We'll make up for this loss this weekend," promised Schroeder-Biek. 



