

Samt MarysColleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 
HPC recommends new charter for the comming week 
VOL. XXIV NO. 18 . 
The search is on 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
A Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) Charter Committee will make recommendations for a new charter in the coming week, changing the structure and function of the council in order to improve its effective­ness, according to Co-chair Charlie James. 
The charter, which must be ratified by two-thirds of the dorms in HPC, will increase the number of voting dorm repre­sentatives, mandate a two-per­son chair and establish a policy review committee, said Molly O'Neill, co-president of Lewis Hall and member of the charter committee. 
The charter committee, com­posed of four HPC members, has been drafting the new doc­ument since October, said 

TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

cent turnover of members, with the exception of the chairs, and it takes a few months for the members of the group to coa­lesce and to begin to address serious issues, according to Swize. The charter would give the council members an idea from the beginning exactly what the role and the capabili­ties of the HPC are, she added. 
Some members were unsure about their roles as a member of the HPC, said Swize, and did not realize the ability of the council to affect campus issues. For example, some on the council did not realize the im­pact that the council could have made with the Safe Haven reso­lution during the fall semester. 
Swize said that it is possible that HPC can do both dorm planning and discussion of 
see HPC I page 4 
The Observer/Adriana Rodriguez 

PE sophomores (left to right) Sara Burke, Alicia McKearn, and Amanda Dwyer look for formal dates yes­terday afternoon with the aid of John Ghingo. Their dance is this weekend, kicking off the many winter term dances and numerous searches through the "dog-book." 
James. Although questions have been raised in the last month about parliamentary issues and the effectiveness of the council, O'Neill said "there were mea­sures being taken to deal with inefficiencies" before the con­cerns were raised. 
HPC has not operated under a charter or constitution in recent years; the last constitution drafted is dated 1976. There was a question whether the council is bound by the docu­ment, or only certain parts, said O'Neill. 
James said that the 1976 constitution may be invalid be­cause it was approved before the ratification of the last Stu­dent Body Constitution. 
As a result, council members discovered a number of contra­dictions and inaccuracies in the 197 6 constitution, according to James. 


A b · . . . The Observer/Garr Schwartz 
mem er of the aud1ence part1c1pates 1n last night's discussion which followed "Montgomery to Memph' • documentary of the political life of Martin Luther King, Jr. IS, a 
j 
Students express mixed feelings about civil rights 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
In a discussion following Monday night's showing of "Montgomery to Memphis," a documentary of the political life of Martin Luther King, Jr., panel members arrived at mixed conclusions concerning the state of civil rights today and hope for the future. 
Panel members included Notre Dame Law School Dean Fernand Dutile, Professors Robert Rhodes and Thomas Broden, and guests Roland Chamblee, M.D. and Norman Miles, PhD. Professor Sabrina McCarthy moderated the dis­cussion. 
McCarthy summarized the film by emphasizing King's at­tempts to bring spirituality into politics by fostering the devel­opment of each person's hu­manity through methods of love. She then opened the dis­cussion by asking what progress our society has made since the civil rights movement of the 1960s and what hope they have for the future. 
Miles answered that the most offensive forms of racism, par­ticularly segregation, have been ended. Significant changes in society have allowed people of color to participate in the mainstream, and we have come a long way in understanding the importance of working to­gether, he continued. 
Dutile agreed that problems of a legal nature, such as seg­regation and voting rights have been solved, but he also won­dered if King would still say to­day that he 'has a dream.' 
He cited pervasive racist atti­tudes throughout society, espe­cially on college campuses, eco­nomic problems, healthcare problems, and police brutality as problems yet to be solved. Dutile said that he is "not overly optimistic" about seeing any solutions soon. 
According to Broden, "the United States was and is a very 
see MLK/ page 4 
The preamble to the charter states the committee's hope that the proposed charter will improve HPC's ability to serve its constituents and the campus as a whole. It recognizes HPC's responsibility to improve resi­dence life and serve as a link between the dorms and the rest of the Notre Dame community. 
The current Student Body Constitution said that "the Hall Presidents' Council shall serve as an information-disseminat­ing body and provide a forum for members to discuss common matters of residentiality." 
O'Neill said that while the charter acknowledges HPC's dual role as disseminator of in­formation and a representative of the interests of resident un­dergraduates, the charter en­ables each new group of mem­bers to determine which role should be stressed. 


Senate supports funding request of Right to Life 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
The Student Senate last night rejected a resolution stating that the body violated parlia­mentary procedure during its debate over a funding request made by a student group op­posed to abortion. 
In a 9-6 vote during its De­cember 9, 1991 meeting, the Senate agreed to transfer $600 from the Student Government's contingency fund to ND/SMC Right to Life. The group requested the money in an effort to help defray the costs of its trip to the annual Right to Life March in Washington D. C. 
During that meeting, several Senators spoke in favor of attaching an amendment to the funding resolution which stated 
In past years, HPC was con­sidered solely a channel of communication between the dorm residents and the NO community and a group to plan dorm activities, said O'Neill. Over the past two years, how­ever, HPC has concentrated more on communicating prob­lems in the dorms, formatting policies to deal with the prob­lems and implementing the policies. 
"Hopefully, we will keep growing in policy formation," said O'Neill. 
Concern about the effective­ness of HPC is addressed in the proposed charter. First, the ex­istence of a charter would en­able the council to begin work­ing sooner, according to Jen­nifer Swize. Farley Hall co­president and committee mem­ber. 
There is an annual 100 per-that the transfer of funds to Right to life did not imply the Senate's support for the group's political goals. However, the amendment was rejected after Student Body Treasurer John Coffey stated that Senate Bylaws forbid the amending of appeals to the contingency fund. 
Coffey's statement was de­nounced as "inappropriate" by District 4 Senator Joe Wilson during last night's meeting. Wilson claimed that Coffey's rejection of the amendment violated a principle of Robert's Rules of Order which states that all "principal motions" put before an assembly can be amended. 
Many of the Senators present disputed Wilson's contention 
.r see SENATE I page 4 
.-.~r 
page 2 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



JFK fuels debate on assassination 
On Sept. 27, 1964, the Warren Commission Report proclaimed to the world that "The shots which killed President Kennedy and wounded Governor Connally were 


fORECAST: Partly sunny and warmer today with highs in the middle 40s. Partly sunny and even warmer Wednesday with a chance of showers. Highs around 50. TEMPERATURES: 
fired by Lee Harvey Dave Dleteman 
Oswald." 
The Commission went on Sports Editor to declare that its crack-------­seven member panel, general counsel, and 14 assistant counsels had "found no evidence that either Lee Harvey Oswald or Jack Ruby was part of any conspiracy, domestic or foreign, to assassinate President Kennedy." Case closed? Not. As American movie-goers have learned, New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison brought a trial against alleged CIA operative Clay Shaw in the hopes of reopening the Kennedy assassination case and exposing a twisted cover­up. Garrison lost his case, however, in March o 1969. The motion picture which is stoking dinner conversations across our beleaguered Union is JFK. The film's director, Oliver Stone has come under intense criticism from many circles, including the media and members of the Warren Commission. One member of the commission, the "greasy, beady-eyed" Sen. Arlen Specter (R­Pa.), mentioned in the film has gone so far as to threaten legal action against Stone. Although Stone would accuse the military and high-ranking politicians of successfully executing a coup d'etat, he himself stands accused of rewriting history according to his anti-American agenda. Stone deserves none of this criticism. The media and government deserve all of it. Stone is accused of fabricating portions of the film, thus conniving the American public into believing in an imaginary conspiracy to pull o a modern-day version of Shakespeare's Julius Casear. Examination of the Warren Commission Report and other documents from the day, however, don't gel with the "Evil Oliver" theory. There are too many oddities and bizarre coincidences-not to mention the number of persons involved who suffered untimely deaths-to make it seem reasonable to shrug ofT Stone's cinematic gadfly. If anything, Stone did not go far enough. Garrison's own book, as well as other books and television specials lend further credibility to Stone's conspiracy theory. At the very least, they do not support the single-bullet theory. At any rate, the hullabaloo around JFK doesn't seem warranted. What Stone's film has served to do is reignite a heated debate over who killed John F. Kennedy. As the case against the deceased Lee Harvey Oswald stands, the 

charges against him are not only covered by shadows of doubt, they are ridiculous. Rep. Henry Gonzalez (D.-Tex.) has asked the federal government to immediately release the top secret documents regarding the Kennedy assassination. They are scheduled to be released in 2029. Louis Stokes, however, chairman of the Select Committee on Assassinations, has maintained that "I don't think that anything new will emerge. This government is not in the business of cover­ups-at least the Congress isn't." 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
Production:  Systems:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Czar Capella  
Melissa Cusack  Jon Halloran  
News:  Pat Barth  
Lauren Aquino  Accent:  
Alicia Reale  John O'Brien  
Sports:  Cheryl Moser  
Mike Scrudato  
Illustrator:  
Jake Frost  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Asaodated Press. All reproduction rigtu. are reserved. 

City H L 
Athens 54 39 
Atlanta 40 22 
Barcelona 50 37 
Boston 21 15 
Cairo 64 52 
Chicago 33 21 
Denver 48 20 
Fairbanks 7 -8 
Great Falls 44 32 
Honolulu 79 66 
Houston 52 28 
Indianapolis 24 24 
London 43 41 

Los Angeles 73 4 7 
Miami Beach 78 69 
New Orleans 50 38 
New York 23 11 
Paris 43 41 
Philadelphia 23 11 

Rome 50 36 
San Diego 72 48 
San Francisco 55 43 
South Bend 29 20 
Tokyo 48 63
PrBSSurs 
Washington, D.C. 25 14 

H L 

~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

• MOSCOW-Boris Yeltsin will turn KGB files on last year's military crackdown in Lithuania over to the Baltic republic's president, the Tass news agency said today. Yeltsin met with Vytautas Landsbergis on Friday at the Kremlin and agreed to turn over papers relating to the Soviet military attack on the television tower in Vilnius. Fourteen people died in last January's attack in the Lithuanian capital. Yeltsin and Landsbergis also agreed to establish diplomatic relations in the near future and signed a communique on trade and economic. Lithuania broke away from the former Soviet Union following the August coup attempt but still relies heavily on Russia for food and energy supplies. 
NATIONAL 
UC Davis students protest raised fees 

•DAVIS, Calif.-About 300 students at the University of California, Davis, occupied an auditorium after the UC regents approved at least a 24 percent increase in 
OF INTEREST 

student fees. Five students were arrested. They remained in Freeborn Hall late Friday afternoon. Protest leaders said they would remain until Tuesday, when the state Legislature reconvenes. Five students were arrested on charges ranging from battery against a police officer to inciting a riot, police said. They were booked and released on bail. Regents met in the audi­torium, but had left by the time students occupied it. The protest began about 30 minutes after the regents boosted the annual fee by $550, meaning resident un­dergraduate students will now pay $2,824. UC Presi­dent David Gardner said the increase was needed be­cause of tightened state support, a projected enroll­ment increase and California's ailing economy. 
•cAPE CANAVER L, Fla.-NASA's countdown clock began ticking toward Wednesday's launch of space shuttle Discovery with seven astronauts and an assortment of creepy-crawlies. Among the specimens that will be on board: roundworms, fruit flies, yeast, bacteria, slime mold, frog eggs and sperm, fetal mouse bones, oat and wheat seedlings, hamster kidney cells and human blood cells. Scientists want to see how plants respond in orbit to varying amounts of light and artificial gravity, and how animal and cell development is affected by weightlessness and space radiation. The countdown for the seven-day flight began Sunday. Liftoff is scheduled for 8:53 a.m. EST Wednesday. 
• 
The Social Concerns Festival will be held tonight at the Center for Social Concerns from 7 to 10 p.m. Over forty groups and organizations will be represented at the Festival. This is the perfect opportunity to sign up for the service or social action activity that you want to do this semester. 

• 
Native American tutoring for the spring semester will begin tonight at 6 p.m. in Medeleva Hall Room 315, SMC. Persons interested in tutoring Native American students ages 4-17, contact Michael Cox at 234-1048. 


• Student art forum meeting will be held tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in order to plan this semester's events. Please try to attend. New members are welcome. 
• The NAACP will sponsor a panel discussion on Campus racism tonight at 7:30p.m. in the pit of Grace Hall. Everyone is encouraged to attend. 
• 
The International Festival 1992 is coming soon! I you are interested in participating please call Manuel 277-5079, Patricia 3881, or Etienne 273-1686 or come to the meeting tonight at 7 p.m. on the 2nd floor Lafortune. 

• 
Summer jobs with camp Manito-Wish are available. All Students are invited to apply for activity leader and counselor positions. An information session will be held at 7:30p.m. tonight in 303 Haggar College Center in order to arrange campus interviews for Wednesday, January 22. Call Carrie Cummins at 284-5157 for more info. 

• 
CSC Mexico project information meeting will take place tonight in the esc at 7 p.m. All who are interested in this three-week summer project should attend. If there are any questions call Mendy at 284-5119. 



Tuesday, January 21, 1992 The Observer page3 
SMC Board evaluates committees 
By CHRISTINE SERAPHIN News Writer 
Student body and class office elections were discussed at Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance (BOG) meeting last night. In addition, students discussed the re-evaluation of present committees, and the formation of new committees. 
Elections are tentatively set for Thursday, February 20. Campaigning will begin Sunday, February 16, and the debate will take place Monday, Febru­ary 17. 
The status of several standing committees and their accom­plishments were discussed. The BOG members decided which committees could be dis­banded since their goals had been met last semester. 
The committees that were voted to be disbanded are: re­cycling, tradition and heritage, security, and computers and lasers. Student Alliance of Women's Colleges and Campus Improvements are the two committees that continue from last semester. 
BOG voted to establish two new committees, and if the need arises, new committees can be formed throughout the semester. One of the newly established committees, that of diversity, will deal with ethnic and non-traditional students' needs. Admissions is a second new committee which will dis­cuss the decreasing enrollment. 

Be Part Of A Discussion 
On 




CAMPOS RACISM 
Panel Discussion Will Be Held On January 21, 1992 At 7:30p.m. In The Grace Hall Pit All Are Welcome To Attend Sponsored By The NAACP 

Americans seek gasoline alternatives for auto fuel 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Facing serious air pollution, America is trying to wean its cars from gasoline. The transition toward a cleaner motor fuel won't be quick, but there are signs that gasoline's grip is loosening. 
For example, President Bush marked the government's pur­chase of hundreds of alterna­tive fuel vehicles by taking a spin around the White House driveway last week in a van powered by compressed natural gas. 
Automakers are not only be­ginning to produce more such vehicles but also a limited num­ber of cars, vans and small trucks that run on methanol. And within a few years, auto industry officials say, electric cars will come purring out of showrooms. 
Alternative-fuel technology "is here today and it's ready to roll," says Claudia Baker, an executive of the energy com­mission in California, a state that has vigorously pushed substitute motor fuels to help ease its severe air pollution. 
Some energy experts and en­vironmentalists predict that more than 2.5 million vehicles powered by fuels other than gasoline will be on American roads by the end of the decade. 
California will require as many as 40,000 electric-pow­ered cars to be sold annually in the state by 1998 and five times that many by the year 2003. Other states, including New York, are on the verge of enact­ing similar requirements. 
New federal clean air rules also call for 150,000 "clean fuel" vehicles to be sold annu­ally in California -and possi­bly other states -by 1996 and twice than many two years after that. In addition federal law calls for phasing in alter­native-fuel fleet vehicles in ur­ban areas with the worst air pollution. At least six states al­ready have incentives or re­quirements to shift operators of taxicabs, delivery trucks and other fleets away from gasoline or diesel. 
In other signs of the future: 

-In Jeffrey Seisler's back yard outside Washington there's a "home fueling appliance" that uses the same natural gas that heats his home to refuel the car he uses each day to go to work. 
-In Sacramento, Calif., a Shell service station, in a joint program with Pacific Gas & Electric, offers not only gasoline but also compressed natural gas. It is among 14 natural gas outlets opened by PG&E, primarily for fleet-owned vehi­cles, in northern California. 

French airplane crashes in snow 
STRASBOURG, France (AP)­A French Airbus A-320 carrying 96 people crashed in snow and fog on a wooded ridge in eastern France Monday night. At least 11 survivors, including a young girl, were found in the wreckage after a four-hour search. 
The girl, about 2 or 3, emerged without serious injury from the crash of the state-run Air Inter flight, and at least one of the six crew also survived, police said. 
Efforts were under way to remove injured people from the wreckage, police said early Tuesday. 
The plane was en route from Lyon to Strasbourg when radio contact was lost shortly before the scheduled landing at 7:25 
p.m. (1:25 p.m. EST), officials said. 
Shortly before midnight, offi­cials located the crash site in the Vosges mountains near Mont Sainte-Odile, 30 miles southwest of Strasbourg. 
Air Inter, which works closely with Air France, said in a communique it had no indica­tion what caused the crash. The plane, put into service in De­cember 1988, had no record of previous mechanical trouble, the airline said. 
Rain and snow slowed the search by about 500 people in the sparsely populated area of dense pine forests and rugged hills ranging from about 2,000 feet to 3,000 feet above sea level. Logging roads provided the only access to much of the fog-shrouded area. 
Two army helicopters and a Mirage F-1 jet fighter equipped with infrared surveillance equipment assisted in the search. 
Flight IT-5148, which left Lyon at 6:30 p.m. (12:30 p.m. EST), was carrying 90 passen­gers and a crew of six, Air Inter said. 
The airline set up a center at Lyon's Satolas airport for rela­tives of those aboard the plane. Few details about the passen­gers were available, although most reportedly were business travellers. 
The Airbus A-320 is a twin­turbofan plane, designed for short-or medium-range flights, which went into service in 1988. Its capacity ranges from 130 to 179 passengers. 
Two A320s have crashed since the aircraft when into service. 
An A-320 crashed into a for­est on June 26, 1988, while executing a low pass during an air show at Habsheim, France. Three passengers were killed. 
On Feb. 14, 1990, a 3-month­old A-320 crashed while preparing for landing in Banga­lore, India, killing 92 people. 
Airbus blamed pilot error in both accidents, but some avia­tion officials suggested a com­puter malfunction. The A-320 is the only commercial aircraft that uses computers capable of operating all flight controls. 
The worst plane accident in France occurred on March 3, 1974, when 360 people died in the crash of a Turkish Airlines DC-10 near Paris. 
YOU'VE KNOWN YOUR WHOLE LIFE YOU WERE GOING To BE A DOCTOR. 
DON'T RISK IT NOW. 

YOU'RE ALMOST THERE. YOU'VE WORKED HARD ALL THESE YEARS AND NOW IT'S TIME TO TAKE THE MCAT. DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD PREPARE ? 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.O:s 8c M.D.s 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
CLASSES STARTING NOW! 

WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 


~-~~~----~-~~-~~---------~---~-~----------~---­
page4 The Observer 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Braving the cold 
Grounds crews en~ure the co~d winter _temperatures yesterday as they cut branches behind Badin. The South Bend area w1ll be warm1ng up th1s week which should make their job more enjoyable. 
MLK 
continued from page 1 
racist society." 

He is not disappointed in to­day's failures in civil rights attitudes because he said that it was "not unexpected." 
However, Broden is not pes­
simistic about the future be­cause he has seen that things can change. He concluded,
"Keep truing, keep sending out
J• 

the message... you never know what's going to happen." 
Rhodes said that he has little hope for improvement in a so­ciety which holds the belief that "there are people born today
who will never get a J'ob." He
------------------------------t-Io_n_s_i_n_a_r~e~a~s~y~et~un~ta~p~p~e~d~-----~c~an~m~a~k~e~a~p~o~si~·tl~·v~e~c~h~a=n~g~e~."----­
Senate 
continued from page 1 

that Right to Ufe's appeal for funds should have been considered to be a "principal motion" subject to amendment. "I don't feel that there was any mistake made (in refusing to consider the amendment)," said Junior Class President Dave Cathcart. 
Wilson also charged Student 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
campus issues. 

Second, the proposed charter calls for the establishment of a policy review committee (PRC) "to review the actions of the HPC, to assess its effectiveness in accomplishing its projected goals and to make recommen­dations on areas the committee feels the council could im­prove." 
The PRC "could act as a judi­ciary element," said O'Neill, "to review how things are going in the council." Rather than going directly to the public to address a problem with the council, a member could direct concerns to this committee. 
The committee would decide how the council is functioning, review how it deals with issues; finally, each year, the commit­tee would analyze the effective­ness of the charter. 
The five-member committee, which would be selected by a voluntary lottery, would "review what we (HPC) are doing and what we should be doing," said Swize. 
In addition, "the PRC would also have the primary role of drafting the language of reso­lutions and responses. The PRC has not seen a commitment to aid the underclass, 50 to 67% of which are black. 
Miles also discussed the black underclass, calling today's young a "generation at risk." This generation lacks employ­ment and a two-parent home, which Miles and others growing 
d

up uring the civil rights
movement had. 

Miles sees hope for the future although he admits that some do not want to accept his solu­tions. He said, "Blacks must take on responsibility for what
happens to our people. The 

government has let us down... 

He cited education and per­sistent entrance into en­trepreneur type fields as solu­
· 

Body President and Senate Chairman Joseph Blanco with breaking Robert's Rules when he spoke out in favor of Right to Life's funding request before the December 9 meeting. Such a statement, Wilson argued, violated Robert's principle that the chairperson of an assembly should not take sides in its debates. 
Blanco was defended by Dis­trict 1 Senator Dave Certo, who contended that the chairman allowed both sides of the 
could take advantage of its small size to draft resolutions before presenting them to the rest of the HPC, according to charter committee member Rich Delevan, Flanner Hall co­president. 
James said that he believes that council already has the mechanisms it needs to achieve its goals, but it can accomplish only as much as its members want. 
C.t\ECK 

IT OUT. / ...TWo ... .··l"H"Er.. ' 
Although King supported nonviolent means of action, Chamblee while calling himself a pacifist, said that he some­times "thinks the only answer to the civil rights movement is violence." He added, "Violence does spur action on the part of the people." 
Dutile responded to Chamblee 
that "violence is not the kind of policy that carries promise for the future." 
The problems of today, such as racist attitudes, will only be increased by violence, he 
added. 
Miles concluded, "We can do a lot better, and I believe we 
funding question to be adequately heard. "Joe did not conduct a biased debate," Certo said. 
After intense discussion, the Senate voted 15-3 to reject a resolution submitted by Wilson which would have had the body admit that it had handled Right to Life's request improperly. However, Blanco did agree to appoint a Senate Parliamentarian to arbitrate any future disputes over pro­cedural matters. 
j 2 Ability to use datobasc to produce reports and ruearch.
I 

3. Good intcrpcnonal skills; some public contact involved.



BURN 
I CONT4S~:cr:Ability to train staff in efficient use of "Reflections". 
Willingness to help wilh geocral office duties, as required. 
I
I 
LI -·--------"1
AFEW BUDS AND
CLEAN SOUNDIN(;nHr'\Mnr_ CALLEDTHE fiERCE 
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 
South Bend Police raid local crack house 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
South Bend Police arrested 
nine people Sunday known to 
have connections with Detroit 
crack dealers in the apartments 
in the 800 block of North Notre 
Dame Avenue. 
The Metro Special Operations Section (MSOS) of the South Bend Police also seized "a large quantity of crack cocaine," over $1,000 in cash, an automatic assault rifle loaded with a 30­round clip of ammunition, and two .22 caliber revolvers in the raids. 
Police described the apart­ments as a major crack distri­bution ring. 
"The individuals involved in the dealing were very large dealers and were bringing in large shipments of crack co­
caine into South Bend," said Lt. Edward Summers in an official press release. 
Police said they had received
1 · b th d
many comp amts a out e a ­dresses from citizens in the neighborhood, adding that the 
I·ncormati'on1 · t t I 
' was ms rumen a 
· th fi I 'd
m e success u ra1 s. 
The arrests cam ft
e a er a 
series of five search warrants 
th t d b · · t
a were serve egmmng a about 6:30 a.m. Sunday at the apartments.
The fi•rst tw h t 
.. o searc warran s 
were served t 820 N N t
a · o re
Dame A"e A t 2A h th
·• • P · · w ere e 
individuals were arrested for charges ranging from conspiracy to deal cocaine to visiting a common nuisance. 
Also found in th1's t t 
apar men 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
TEMPORARY PART-TIME JOB OPPORTUNITY: 
COLLEGE OF BUSINF.SS MBA ADMISSIONS OFFICE 
The MBA Admissions Office is seeking a temporary part-time employee to manage the MBA Admissions dato base and to coordinate wilh computing services. In general the position will require 20 hours a week from now until May or Juoc 1992. 
QUALIFICATIONS: 
I. Familiarity with •Reflections' software for the Hewlett Packard mainframe. 
Jo Ann Gabrich MBA Admissions Office Hayca-Hcaly Center Notre Dame, IN 

__ :-:88_______________J 
IN ClASS· KIN-KO'S· YOU R~i.LY SAVE MY·BOOM· BANG· RliT·A ·.P~T Df\T KIN·KO~·JTHINK I L.DVfYDU. 
1"HAN'<YA. 
~ANI<YA 
/vE~MUCH 
was $160 in police "bait 
money" used by undercover of­
ficers to purchase drugs. 
Among the nine arrested was a 16-year-old South Bend boy who was released to the cus­tody of his parents following questioning in connection with the raids. 
Information gathered from the first two search warrants led officers to obtain two addi­tional warrants for the address of 835 N. Notre Dame Ave., Apt. 2C, and for 832 N. Notre Dame Ave., Apt. 2A. 
Individuals seen leaving the apartment at 832 N. Notre Dame Ave. were taken for ques­tioning and released. 
A female renting the apart­ment was also questioned by police. After a trained police K­9 alerted officers that the vehi­cle driven by the female possi­bly contained a controlled sub­stance, a fifth search warrant was obtained for the vehicle. 
Information about the con­tents of the vehicle was unavailable. 
The South Bend Police De­partment Swat Team assisted officers in the raids because in­formation led the police to be­lieve that the residents may have been armed. The MSOS is composed of officers from South Bend, St. Joseph County and Mishawaka police. 
Police are asking anyone in St. Joseph County who suspects a drug house in the area to contact the MSOS at 284-9406, or Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. 
Rlnka'S·lllf.COPY CENTER· Good,cleancopies.color or b~w, Mac5, FAX etc.· ISIV Sfi\TE RD.23 (2.19)27/-039~ 
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 The Observer pageS 
Bush plans moratorium on federal regulations 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush is expected to impose a 90-day moratorium on most new federal regulations as part of the economic recovery plan he will unveil in next Tuesday's State of the Union address, administration officials said Monday. 
All executive branch agencies would be asked to review pend­ing rules with an eye toward scrapping as many as possible or reducing their burdensome impact on business, an official said. 
There will be two broad ex­ceptions to the ban: rules re­quired by law and new drug approvals. 
The plan for a moratorium was first reported by the Wall Street Journal on Monday. 
Bush ignored reporters' ques­tions about the ban as he re­turned to the White House from Camp David, Md., in early afternoon. A spokesman, Sean Walsh, said Bush came back early because he had work to do preparing next week's speech and his 1993 budget. 
Gary Foster, deputy White House press secretary, said, "The president is concerned that excessive regulation -red tape -is stifling economic growth and contributing to unemployment." 
Bush, whose approval rating has tumbled below 50 percent in the face of the lingering re­cession, has said he will go be­fore Congress to unveil a blueprint to get the economy growing again. He plans to propose tax cuts for the middle­class as well as tax breaks to help people buy health insur­ance. 
An administration official who insisted on anonymity said the moratorium has the strong backing of Vice President Dan Quayle, who chairs a Council on Competitiveness that has been looking for ways to reduce reg­ulatory burdens; Michael Boskin, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and C. Boyden Gray, the White House counsel. 
Bush has not yet formally ap­proved their recommendation, but he is considered certain to do so, the official said. 
Boskin told the Journal a moratorium is "a way of focus­ing the attention of the regula­tory community to redouble their efforts" to cut back on burdensome regulations. He said overregulation was "one of the major impediments to a growing economy." 
The Journal said White House officials are targeting eight broad areas for the regulatory ban: environment, energy, transportation, exports, telecommunications, biotech­nology, access to capital and privatization. 
Bush would be following the footsteps of former President Ronald Reagan, who imposed a two-month moratorium on regulations when he entered the White House in 1981. 
But Reagan's aim was to stop Carter administration rules in their tracks, while Bush is con­cerned about the regulations his own administration is pro­mulgating. 
Bush headed a deregulatory drive in the Reagan administra­tion, and Quayle has played that role under Bush. Quayle recently joined the commis­sioner of food and drugs, David Kessler, in announcing plans to speed up drug reviews. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration boasts that it allowed 30 new drugs onto the market in 1991, seven more than the year before, and claims it has reduced the time needed to re­view them to 22 months from two years-plus. 

r ----COUPON SAVINGS ­


---, 
I 20°/ooFFHAIR CUT: REG. $8.95 
I 
r--------------~ 
:20o/oOFF ANY PERM: 
REG. $8.95 

MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277·3770 

The Observer/Adriana Rodriguez 
Starting. early 
Eag~r NO stud~nts, (left to right) Erica Hellman, Stacey Jackson, Joe McQuade, Jim McQuade, Jim Partndge and Richard Mathurin, get a head start on their studies at the library computer lab yesterday. 

Japanese decrease auto imports 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A top Bush administration official said Monday that if the Japanese are backing off auto import goals they set on Presi­dent Bush's trade mission there will be "a very negative reac­tion" in the United States. 
And harsh comments were quickly forthcoming from con­gressional Democrats, who had already been criticizing Bush's trip. 
House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt said agree­ments with the Japanese must include penalties that will be ordered if goals are not met. Without such penalties, he said, "you'll never have the pressure you need to change the behav­ior." 
Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Monday in Japan that the announcement during the Bush visit that Japanese auto makers would try to import and sell nearly 20,000 American vehicles and buy $10 billion more in auto parts was "a target rather than a firm promise." 
And Toyota Chairman Eiji Toyoda said his company "will study and consider the possibil­ity of selling GM cars. It is too much to say we will actually sell them." 
J. Michael Farren, the under­secretary of commerce for in­ternational trade, said of those statements: "It may be a sign of backing off from the stated goals that they have unilaterally set for themselves." 
"It is not unusual for Japanese government officials to make what looks like a fairly basic commitment and then qualify it heavily at a later date. This doesn't shock me," Farren said. 
Still, he added, Japanese au­tomakers realize there will be "a very negative reaction here in the United States if they don't expeditiously move to meet and exceed the goals." 
Farren said the 20,000 figure was never included in the for­mal Japanese government statement-at U.S. request. 
"We told them we did not want a number in there on au­tos," Farren said. That was be­cause "frankly any number they might come out with would probably be low and not neces­sarily realistic." 
But the goal of raising auto part imports from $9 billion to $19 billion by 1994 "was in the document the government put out," said Farren, who attended the Tokyo summit. 
The $19 billion represented "individual commitments that the Japanese auto companies made in their voluntary plans," he said. 
"This was not a government to government trade agree­ment. The numbers were a con­sequence of Japanese company decision, not an edict of the government of Japan," said Farren. 
Farren said the Japanese auto makers control almost the entire parts network as well. "That is a situation we would never tolerate in this country," he said. 
He added that the talks with the Japanese over auto parts and other issues are continuing. "We did not expect to come away with a solution to the closed Japanese auto market in one visit," he said. 
Gephardt, D-Mo., said he was not surprised at the comments from the Japanese leaders. 
"I think it's another indication that when you use traditional methods we have used to solve the problems, it doesn't work well," Gephardt said, con­tending there is a fundamental incompatibility between the 
U.S. and Japanese economies. 
Gephardt is pressing legisla­tion that would set goals for reducing the U.S. trade deficit with Japan, and if they are not met, impose quotas or other barriers to Japanese cars im­ported into the United States. 
~························
CAMPUS DELIVERY OF I 
I DELIVERY BEGINS MON FEB 3 & ENDS FRI MAY 1 
•1  C!tbt Ntttr!ork5imts  I  
I  
:  ONLY 30 CENTS/AU MON-SAT  I  
1 1  ( (  ) MON-FRI -$17.40 ) MON-SAT-$20.10  ( (  ) MON-SUN -$47.10 ) SUN ONLY-$ 27.00  I I  
I  

(NO DELIVERY DURING SPRING & EASTER BREAKS) I
I 

MAKECHECKSPAYABLETO: GREG KLETZLY 1 1.---------------------------------------------------------------l 
: Namit:"------------Phon.'-------­
1 
1 Address_________________________________________ I 
I I Clip & Mail to: The New York Times 1
I 
c/o Greg Kletzly • Campus Rep P.O. Box 885 
• Notre Dame, In 46556-0885 I 
The Observer 
page 6 Tuesday, January 21, 1992 
Florida Court removes judge over racial issues 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­The state Supreme Court on Friday removed Judge John Santora as chief circuit judge in this northeast Florida district over remarks he made that were perceived as racist. 
Santora, 69, will remain on the bench, however. The cir­cuit's next most senior judge will take over as chief circuit judge, the high court ruled. 
Earlier Friday, Santora had strongly objected to an attempt by 20 lawyers to have him removed over comments he made in an interview published Dec. 22 in The Florida Times-Union and in testimony in a federal trial. 
In a legal brief, Santora de­nied that his comments have damaged the public's confi­dence in either the judiciary or his own impartiality. 
The Supreme Court dis­agreed, voting 6-0 for his re­moval. Former Jacksonville Judge Major Harding didn't vote. 
"The actions of the chief judge, both professional and personal, must be consistent with the highest ideals embodied by our law," the court's ruling said. 
Santora's six-year term ex­pires next January, and he has previously said he wouldn't seek re-election. 
In the newspaper interview, he blamed school violence on integration, opposed interracial marriage and complained most welfare recipients are black. 
In the trial on judicial elec­tions, Santora said the district has enough black judges, but needs more Jewish judges to work over the Christmas holi­days. He later said his com­ments about Jewish judges was in jest. 
No one answered the tele­phone at Santora's office or home after the ruling. Since the controversy erupted, Santora has remained silent except for a public apology issued earlier this month. 
His brief said that early in his career as a judge, he initiated efforts to desegregate Jacksonville's municipal court and subsequently won strong support from black voters. 
His comments polarized the community and led to the for­mation of a committee to study the causes of racism and inequality. 
Santora, who has been a circuit judge since 1972 and chief judge since 1985, is the top state judge in Duval, Clay and Nassau counties. Three of the 41 judges in the district are black. Twenty-one percent of the population is black. 
Santora has rejected calls for his resignation. Marches both in favor of and against the judge have taken place in Jacksonville. The Rev. Jesse Jackson led two protests against Santora. 
Willye Dennis, president of the Jacksonville chapter of the National Association of Colored People, said she was concerned that Santora remains on the bench. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! Applications now available for Senior Formal Chairperson Pick them up & return them to: LaFortune or Haggar Info. Desks Deadline: February 2nd 
WHAT'S NEW AT 
RecSports 
\RE YOU INTERESTED IN ANY OF TilE FOLLOWING SPORTS '? 
RACQUETBALL SQUASH
IJ' 
HANDBALL TENNIS 
TABLE TENNIS . BADMINTON 
.\RE YOU HAVING TROUBLE FINDING A PARTNER? 
CHECK OUT THE NEW PLAYERS BOARD POSTED ACROSS FROM THE VARSITY EQUIPMENT ROOM (BETWEEN TilE VENDING MACHINES)' 
FILL OUT THE FORM AND LOCATE PARJ'NERS IN YOUR FAVORITE SPORTS 
DON'T WAIT 
PLAY TODAY! 
Killer leaves behind suicide note 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -A suicide note apparently written by a man killed with his 12­year-old hostage in a hail of po­lice gunfire is strong evidence he planned to die in a clash with law officers, authorities said Friday. 
The undated note by Bryan French appeared to be ad­dressed to his mother, said Deputy State Medical Examiner Karen Gunson. 
French, 20, was gunned down Thursday morning after he broke into a house and threat­ened to kill Nathan Thomas, 12, with a butcher knife. The child was fatally wounded in the head by the police gunfire. 
Police believe the note was written shortly before French set out on a brief crime spree that included another at­tempted break-in and vandal­ism, said police spokesman Sgt. Derrick Foxworth. 
Police found the four-page note Thursday night in a search of French's apartment. 
"I hope to die tonight," the note said, according to Gunson. 
She said the note also said, "I love you mom, it's not your fault." 
Gunson's office must rule whether French's death was a suicide. 
"The note is pretty good evi­dence of his intent to die," she said. 
Police went to the neighbor­hood about 3:30 a.m. Thursday after receiving a call about a burglary in progress. 
A police dog tracked French to a basement window that had been forced open at the home of pediatrician Greg Thomas, 38, and his wife, Martha McMurry, 45. 
Officers waited while the par­ents went upstairs to wake up their two children. McMurry found French in her son's bed and screamed. 
The parents and their other son, 8-year-old Benjamin, went into another bedroom as three officers at the foot of the stairs tried to talk French, who had moved out of the bedroom, into surrendering. 
"French was very irrational, very angry, and repeatedly threatened to kill the boy," Foxworth said. 
He said French, who was out of the officers' sight at the top of the stairs, shouted at the of­ficers about the suicide note and demanded an officer's gun. 
Two police officers outside the house frred at French through a window and missed. Foxworth said French then renewed his threat to kill the boy and began a countdown. 
'"Ten, nine, eight, seven, six,' and it was clear in those offi­cers' minds that he was in the process of killing the boy," Foxworth said. 
The three officers rushed up­stairs and fired at least 16 times, with 14 of the bullets hit­ting French and two hitting the boy. French died at the scene. The boy died three hours later at a hospital. 
Gunson said the autopsy showed no evidence the boy was cut by the knife. 
Assistant District Attorney John Bradley said a grand jury will decide whether the officers were justified in opening fire. Until then, they've been placed on administrative leave. 
French had a history of vio­lence and a police record in­cluding run-ins with Portland school police dating to 1983. He was last arrested Jan. 4 on a charge of menacing after he threatened a convenience store clerk, and he had been sched­uled to appear in court Thurs­day. 
lith ANNUAL CELEBRATION! 


RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
• TOURWAY INN· ~~~, 
• THE REEF •1,..., , ~ 
-7 nights­
•Depending on break dates and length of stay 

The Observer 
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 page 7 
Judge OKs video for murder trial 
DELAND, Fla. (AP) -A a jury in the trial of a prostitute accused of killing a male mo­torist may review a videotaped confession and other evidence detailing the slayings of six other men, a judge ruled Fri­day. 
"The material is relevant. The material shows a planned scheme or design," Circuit Judge Uriel Blount decided after hearing 90 minutes of ar­guments outside the presence of the jury. 
Aileen Wuornos is charged with first-degree murder in the shooting and robbery of 51­year-old Richard Mallory, whose partially decomposed body was found Dec. 13, 1989, northwest of Daytona Beach. If convicted, she could be sentenced to death. 
Wuornos has been charged with frrst-degree murder in four other roadside killings committed during a 13-month period following Mallory's slaying. Two other deaths are under investigation. 
Lawyers for Wuornos, 35, argued the evidence didn't demonstrate an elaborate scheme. They said there were differences as well as similari­ties in the killings and that al­lowing the videotape and testi­mony in the other murders could confuse the jury. 
In a three-hour statement videotaped by investigators after her January 1991 arrest, Wuornos describes each of the killings in detail. She says sev­eral times that she shot the men in self-defense. 
In the video, she cites names of victims, dates of the crimes and places where they took place. Authorities say the statement was given voluntarily byWuornos. 
Defense attorneys have said they would argue that Wuornos killed prostitution clients only after they became abusive and violent. 
In addition to the lengthy videotape, prosecutors were al­lowed to present evidence and testimony from deputies, crime analysts and others regarding all the victims. 
"What we can establish is a pattern by the defendant of killings along the highways of the state of Florida," said prosecutor David Damore. "You have a pattern here. You have a signature." 
Prosecutors argued all of the victims apparently were shot with the same .22-caliber re­volver, all died of multiple gun­shots, the victims' cars and properties were stolen and their bodies were dumped in wooded areas. 
Assistant Public Defender Billy Nolas tried to block testi­mony about the other killings. 
"We do not try people in this country on propensity. We do not try people on character. We do not try people on anything other than the crime charged in the indictment," Nolas said. 
After jurors were called back to the courtroom, the state presented a series of witnesses who testified about the murder of Richard Humphreys, 56, a state child-abuse investigator. 
The former Sylacauga, Ala., police chief was shot six times, including once in the head and twice in the back. 
State Attorney John Tanner quoted from a Wuornos state­ment about Humphreys' death, saying,:"I felt sorry for him be­cause he was gurgling. I shot him in the head to get him out of his misery." 
Man gets gas chamber sentence for killing 7 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) -A man convicted of murdering seven people in an office ram­page over an unrequited love was sentenced Friday to die in the gas chamber. 
Superior Court Judge Joseph Biafore Jr. called Richard Farley a vicious killer who displayed "complete disregard for human life." 
The judge rejected a lawyer's requests for a modified sentence of life in prison and a request for a new trial. 
"The defendant Richard Farley is without question a killer ... who killed with the intention to prove to the object of his unrequited love that he wasn't a wimp anYmore," the judge said. 
Jurors on Nov. 1 recom­mended the death penalty for Farley in the Feb. 16, 1988, slayings at ESL Inc., a Sunny­vale defense contractor. In Oc­tober, the jury found Farley, a computer engineer, guilty of killing seven people to get the attention of a former co­worker who rejected him. During the trial, prosecutors detailed Farley's 3 1/2-year­long obsessive pursuit of Laura Black. He sent her more than 100 letters, followed her day and night from work to home and to aerobics classes, left her gifts on her desk and prowled confidential personnel files to glean tidbits about her life. 
Despite her repeated rejec­tions, Farley persisted and was fired in 1987 for harassing her. 
Black, 30, was shot in the shoulder during the rampage, but survived and testified against Farley. 
Farley, 43, admitted the killings but pleaded innocent, saying he never planned to kill but only wished to get Black's attention or commit .suicide in front of her to make her feel guilty for rejecting 
him. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY . . . considerations (DMPUS•MINISTRY  
All too often, our University Community is shocked by I would like to give thanks to God for letting me be with the deaths of one or more of its members. These Ernesto before, during and after his tragic death. He did moments of separation and sorrow are even more not ~uffer. He joined his Holy Family while we were difficult when those who die are students. During those holdr~g hands, and I was praying the Our Father in times, it is often our faith in the promises held out to us Spanrsh. The few precious days we spent together in by Jesus that sustains us. Panama ~ere .ha~py ones. He was with his family, in his country, wrth hrs fnends and with me. During the semester break, two M.S.A. graduate students and one former member of the Class of 1995 He lett many beautiful memories behind including died. in.spiring letters a~d photographs. He was always there wrth a full energetrc smile when we needed him. Perhaps we can remember ERNESTO ALVARADO, DAVID BRIITON AND JULIE GANTHER and pray for Shortly. before his death, he wrote "Laugh, because each of them in the words the mother and best friend of every trme you do you make God and me happy. Have Ernesto shared with grieving classmates. faith ~nd a lot of strength. Remember every day is beautrful and you have to live each day to the fullest." Zulema Jimenez wrote from Panama: Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. With a pain filled heart at the unexpected parting of my son, Ernesto, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to the educational authorities, professors, classmates and friends who knew him and who loved him in this prestigious University of Notre Dame, where Ernesto was fed both spiritually and Intellectually. There he felt happy, proud and motivated to achieve his goals. I realize God gifted me for a time with an extraordinary son whom I loved and was dedicated to. It was time to take him to his heavenly home with our mother, Mary. I thank God for all of the gifts he gave my son and, God willing, they will serve as a stimulus for his University classmates so that all might practice the love of God and service to others, as Ernesto did. Kimberley Shea wrote: I would like to share a few words of peace with you, because he had a special way of speaking to all those he loved.  

page 8 The Observer Tuesday, January 21, 1992 
Former Premier of Greece will run again 
ATHENS, Greece (AP) -After 
a narrow acquittal on 
corruption charges, former 
Premier Andreas Papandreou 
on Friday angrily challenged 
the conservative government to 
hold early elections, suggesting 
he would run. 
Two of Papandreou's co-de­
fendants, both former Cabinet 
ministers, were convicted on 
related charges at the end of a 
trial stemming from a scandal 
that brought down Papan­
dreou's government in 1989. 
One of his convicted co-de­fendants, former Finance Min­ister Dimitris Tsovolas, holed up at the headquarters of the Socialist party, known as PA­SOK, with hundreds of sup­porters and challenged police to arrest him there. 
"I will remain in the PASOK offices, waiting for the authori­ties to arrest me and take me to Korydallos prison," he told reporters. The crowd dispersed after several hours. • 
Papandreou's party is the main opposition to the conser­vative government, winning al­most 40 percent of the vote in the 1990 elections. Papandreou, though 72 and in ill health, has retained full control of the party. 
The 13-judge special court voted 7-6 to acquit Papandreou of instigating the loss of state company funds. He had been accused of ordering state com­pany managers to deposit money with the Bank of Crete, whose owner, George Koskotas, is accused of embezzlement. 
A central bank audit in late 1988 found that $210 million were missing from the bank. 
The six dissenting judges said they believed Papandreou must have known of Koskotas's ac­tivities. 
Papandreou was not in court to hear the verdict. He boy­cotted the trial, saying the charges against him were a conspiracy by his political ene­mies. 

Later, in an angry television address, Papandreou claimed the verdict showed the charges against him had been trumped up by a conservative~Commu­nist coalition that succeeded his party in 1989. He called for a new poll. 
"With the excuse of a cleanup, the electoral will of the people was adulterated. The New Democracy majority is the result of the Greek people hav­ing been hoodwinked. The de­mand for elections is the de­mand of the people," Papan­
The Observer/Adriana Rodriguez 
dreou said. 
Free time
Deputy Premier Athanassios Kanellopoulos called Friday for 
St: Ed's junior Joe Dailor takes advantage of some early semester free time by brushing up on his poolcalm and unity. "Democracy sk1lls at LaFortune yesterday. cannot withstand divisions. Let' us all work together ... to create a calm political climate," he said. 
Elderly singers improve Sinatra 
The trial, the last 10 months of which were televised, was more popular than most soap operas here. Streets were nearly deserted Thursday night as people stayed at home to_ wait for the court's verdict. 
Much of the evidence against Papandreou was based on tes­timony by Koskotas, who will be tried separately for embezzling. The court majority said it did not believe Koskotas' testimony that Papandreou had taken bribes from him. 
Papandreou could have been sentenced to a life term in prison ifconvicted. 
Tsovolas was convicted of overriding a government pro­cedure in settling a debt for a Papandreou friend. 
NORTHAMPTON, Mass. (AP) -At 96, Anna Main is enjoying a flourishing new career as a singer. 
Main, a former church singer, is a star and senior member in an unlikely chorus of never-say­old singers who are enchanting audiences with outrageous send ups and considerable musical talents. 
A recent production, a joint effort with a local theater com­pany, re-creates the tumultuous days of the French Revolution. But they're doing it their way ­with the music of Frank Sina­tra. 
They call the musical review "Louis Lou I -a Revolting Mu­sical," a reference both to the French king and the rock song by the Kingsmen. 
In previous shows, such as "The Devil in Ms. Main" and the satirical "Oh No! A Condo!," the amateur singers have obliterated stereotypes about the elderly. 
"You see old people out there, and you expect to hear 'I Love You Truly' and 'In the Good Old Summertime,"' said Sally Rubenstone, the troupe's ad­ministrator. "Instead, you get 'Doo-wah ditty' and people shaking their hips." 
Troupe members portrayed Country Joe and the Fish and their 1960s rock music at a re­cent re-creation of the Wood­stock music festival. 
The 10-year-old singing troupe, known as "The Young at Heart Chorus," provides its 30 members with a musical and social outlet. For some, it has meant more. 
Marion Chagnon, at 58 the baby in the group, said she lost her confidence to sing in bar­bershop quartets when she be­gan to go blind. 
"I never thought I could sing again, but then 'The Young at Heart Chorus' came along and gave me the best part of my life back," she said. 
"I think it adds 10 years to their life," Eileen Hall, a 78­year-old troupe member, said of her co-singers. She squeezes the chorus rehearsals into her schedule of bowling, tap and line dancing. 
As she speaks, her fellow singers, bedecked in bonnets and breeches, await their fate at a 10-foot-tall wooden guil­lotine to strains of "When I Was 17." 




ATTENTION JUNIORS 



c.-­
~ Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas 
Come find out about 
Spring Break 


Summer Internship Opportunities at The Travelers: 
The Ultimate Sailing Experience ~ 
• Actuarial Science 
I Call l..SQQ..359.. 9808 Today I \t'.., 
• 
Information Systems 

• 
Finance 


Need A Spring Break? 



SUMMER JOB FAIR Wednesday, January 22, 1992 Monogram Room, JACC 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
• 
Please bring a resume and transcript. 

• 
Interviews to be held January 23, 1992. 

• 
All positions will be located in llartford, Connecticut. 


TheTravelerST' 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
---~------~­
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 The Observer page9 
Researchers reveal helpful tips for disease prevention 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -We can't avoid getting older, but evi­dence is growing that we may be able to avoid some of the sicknesses that go along with it. 
Disorders such as cardiovas­cular disease. hypertension and adult onset diabetes don't have to be the natural consequences of aging, says Wendy Kohrt, an associate professor of medicine at Washington University. 
"We feel they are more re­lated to physical inactivity, and that many of them could be avoided through exercise and by maintaining an active lifestyle," she said. 
Kohrt recently completed a first-of-its kind, five-year study in which 110 sedentary people ages 60 to 71 were put through a rigorous exercise program. It reaped such rewards as seeing 73-year-old Clara Wolff beam­ing with pride after a six-mile run. 
Kohrt's study group recruited 53 men and 57 women from the St. Louis area for a yearlong regimen. By year's end, all the participants were exercising 45 to 50 minutes a day, five days a week, at heart rates 80 percent to 90 percent of their maximum heart rate. 
"Most were walking or jog­ging," Kohrt said. "The goal was to get each participant to do the equivalent of 15 to 20 miles per week by the end of the study." 
All of the exercise was done under supervised conditions at the medical school's indoor track and gym. 
In the later stages of the pro­gram, those who could pro­gressed from walking to jog­ging. Those who continued to walk but had difficulty increas­ing their heart rates on a level surface exercised on treadmills with elevated grades. 
And the results surprised a lot of people. 
"Earlier studies had tended to show that older people were not adaptable, that they couldn't benefit from cardiovascular programs like younger people, and women were not expected to do as well as men," Kohrt said_ 
"But after a year in our pro­gram, both the men and the women improved their cardio­vascular function 20 (percent) to 25 percent -the same im­provement level typically noted in studies of much younger people," she said. 
Doctors know the aging pro­cess kicks in around ages 35 to 40, when subtle declines begin in physical performance. Kohrt says she had believed her study would help pin down just when in later life the big decline be­gins. 
"We thought the people who were closer to 70 would not re­spond as well to exercise as the people in their early 60s," she said. "But it didn't come out that way. Those who were 70 appeared to get the same rela­tive benefits as those who were 60." 
"It seems to me that the cen­tral message here is that older people are remarkably respon­sive to exercise," said William Evans, chief of the Human Physiology Laboratory at the Human Nutrition Research Cen­ter on Aging at Tufts University in Boston. 
Evans' own study on high-in­tensity weightlifting for the elderly last year showed that even up to age 100, such exer­cise can triple muscle strength and cause significant increase in muscle size. 
"I think there's been a myth for a very long time that at some point as we grow older, we lose our ability to respond to exercise. I think that with what Dr. Kohrt has seen and what we have seen in our strength training is that it is just that ­a myth," he said in a telephone interview. 
"It has become obvious that when older people resign them­selves to that state, it's a downward spiral," Evans said. 
About 300 applicants were 
screened to get the 110 partici­pants, and they had to be ready to work hard, Kohrt says. But some people couldn't take it, she says. 
"It's hard to push some people because they feel they've done a lot if they've walked a mile. We wanted them doing four miles a day," Kohrt said. 
"We wanted the most vigor­ous exercise that we thought they could handle. I think the majority expressed some reser­vations at the beginning, but before it was over they were actually doing things they couldn't even imagine before they started," she said. 
Every three months the par­ticipants underwent interim testing, and their exercise as­signments were adjusted weekly. At the end of the study, the initial tests were repeated to determine the progress. 
Not all the progress was physical. 

Eleven thousand of the most brilliant people in America work in a profession that few of us even know exists. No matter how smart we are. 
Few careers combine more challenge and diversity with greater financial reward. You can learn like a Ph.D. while you earn like an MBA ­and have a lot more fun along the way. 
All majors welcome. Just bring your exceptional mental skills, math skills, people skills and driving will to achieve. We'll show you how to turn a great brain into a brilliant career. 
This summer, start building your career with Aetna. We'll be on campus Wednesday, February 12, interviewing for our Actuarial summer intern­ship program in Hartford, Connecticut. In order to be considered for our closed schedule, please submit your resume to CareerPlacement Services by January 22. 


Student f. 
Dear Editor: 
In his January 16th edition of "Capital Comments," Mr. Gary 
J. Caruso tells of a wonderful week in New Orleans, a week during which our football team overcame great odds to defeat Florida in the Sugar Bowl. 
I
However, by the time I 
I 
reached his final words, "The Irish ...won.. because we are Notre Dame and they are not," it had become obvious that the overidding theme of Mr. Caruso's article had little to do with beating the odds. 
Rather, it deals with the presumption that Notre Dame At the same time I also be­his own experiences of downing fans 
sent to The Observer by one Indiana student last fall. It is also the mindset typical of racism and homophobia, both of which curiously enough are widespread sentiments on this campus. 
Out of convenience, I have used Mr. Caruso's article as an example of a larger problem. I'm not singling his column out nor do I mean to place a stain on Mr. Caruso's, or anyone's experience at the Sugar Bowl. I congratulate the football team on a fantastic victory, and I commend those fans in atten­
students are simply better people than everyone else, and will always be. We're better, apparently, because we act "more sophisticated and classy" and possess a "humble" attitude. 
It seems to me that a page devoted to patting ourselves on the back for being so "humble" contradicts itself. Moreover, it unfortunately echoes a senti­ment which has grown far too prevalent at Notre Dame, and which effectively diminishes the image of the University of which we're so proud. 
I was not in New Orleans for the Sugar Bowl, and I'm well aware that our fans were greatly outnumbered there, and lieve that Notre Dame students would surely have been guilty of the same braggadocio had we entered New Orleans with a less "humbling" regular season record. I'm so sure of this be­cause I've seen it time and time again. 
Mr. Caruso criticizes our opponents for their loud cloth­ing and (gasp!) "F--ND shirts" but neglects to mention that F--(fill in: Miami, Michigan, Penn St., etc,) shirts are widely sold on campus anytime one of those respective schools visits South Bend for a game. Jesus had something to say about casting the first stone, if I recall correctly. 
Mr. Caruso goes on to de­
shots upon shots as if they were sacred. He says that drinking "played a major role" for Notre Dame students, but was certainly not "a major factor in our experience." 
Yet a look around campus on any given weekend will make it clear that for at least most Notre Dame students, drinking plays the solitary role in having a good time. I'm sure this prac­tice won't stop, but at the very least, we shouldn't use a double standard in a feeble attempt to convince ourselves that the rest of the colleges are made up of alcoholics, while we stand pure and innocent above them. 
The article then speaks of the uniqueness of Notre Dame. 
Florida never see." Do we honestly believe that no other people could experience such relationships or display such poise? Are we elite? 
As Christians, it seems to me that Notre Dame students should strive to be examples of humility and class to the rest of the world, rather than claiming such things as our own, unattainable for the "non­Domer." The true Christian admits that he is a sinner, rather than place himself above the rest of the world. 
This attitude of ours, that we're better people than every­one else, is exactly what causes our rival fans to hate us with such vehemence. It is what dance at the Sugar Bowl for rooting our team to victory. 
However, I ask our students to beware of considering them­selves elite, or better than any­one else. Proclaiming one's classiness and humility is nei­ther classy or humble. This is not pride, nor is it genuine school spirit, but rather simple egotism. 
Instead, students should represent Notre Dame with a truly humble attitude, in victory as in defeat, and show the world what this school is really about. 
Peter Dedman Alumni Hall 
that the Florida fans were be-scribe Florida students as "Strangers become friends in a 
Professor thanks generous student body 
Dear Editor : Providential, your help gen­a decorated Christmas tree, a 
I want to thank you for your uinely saved (and made) the Christmas turkey, an entire set generous and spirited response Christmas season for them. The of dishes, some clothes, and to my letter about John Mon­need for such help was, in fact, some baby toys. Thank you, tana, the Native American even more acute than I knew very much. badly beaten the day after when I wrote the letter. But I Jacqueline Brogan Thanksgiving, and his family. want you to know that I was Associate English Professor 
In ways that they felt truly able to take them over $500.00, Jan.16,1992 
DOONESBURY 
A BilBY, !HAT'S M/1<£-:r IT''3 8./?. / WHAT.' MeANl? HOIAJ'S IT601N: /3()()P'318 ~ GUY? HAVIN<3A 1<11?! 
IS THATUNBE/..IBVA&e?' I'M RePLACING MY'313U' CN 7Hl3 PlANFT; MAN! a/HAT 
ro YaJ THINK OF THAT? 
\ 

a/HAT lXJ()Jt; THIN!< OFB.Il. REPLACING 
HIM5UF?? I 
'The Christian ideal has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and untried.' 
G. K. Chesterton 
Forget the dead you 'ue left, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
-------~------~--------~------­




Accent 
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 page 11 

SNL skit asks the question, '}lre Chicagoans really like that?" 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
S 
ausage ... porkchops... Ditka ... Jordan ... Sausage ... 
Thus begin the dreams of 
"Bob Swirsky's Superfans," a 
nutty bunch of foot­
ball/basketball fans from a certain Midwestern town that starts with a "C" and ends with an "o" and has "hicag" in the middle. 
The Superfans made their debut last January on "Saturday Night Live," the night before 'da Bears faced the New 
' York Giants in the NFC Playoffs. Since then, Joe Mantegna, John Goodman and George Wendt have taken their turns hosting the show, which allegedly is shot in the restaurant named after a certain coach. That coach being, of course, Ditka. 
In the process of trumpeting the talents of 'da Bulls and 'da Bears, the skit has become immensely popular-even in the city that the skit pokes fun at-Chicago. Now, in addition to getting ribbed about being from the home of AI Capone, Chicagoans are teased about being from the home of 'da Bears. 
But some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from the Chicago area don't mind being associated with the skit. Many find the Superfans quite funny and even a little accurate in their depiction of sports-crazed Chicago fans. 
Rob Browne, an ND junior from the suburb of Glenview, Ill., finds the skit funny and not the least bit offensive. 
"It's really an accurate description of blue-collar native Chicagoans," said Browne. "True Bears fans are almost re­ligious," he added. 
"It's funny because it's true," said 
Colleen Feeley, an SMC junior also from Glenview. "The fans that go to games in below-zero weather are like that." 
The skit is accurate, said Colleen Gorman, an SMC junior from Evergreen Park, Ill., but it's a little exaggerated. 
"Not a majority of fans are like that, but some are," Gorman said. 
So these obnoxious, beer-drinking, polish sausage-eating Superfans are an accurate depiction of Chicago fans? Yes, said ND senior Jim Cox, who comes from Arlington Heights, Ill., but they're more representative of sports fans in general. 
"All sports fans are like that-everyone roots for their home team," Cox said. 
Whether or not these Superfans can be found everywhere, one city-a certain Midwestern city-has opened its hearts to them. 
"They get lots of publicity back home," said Bridget Carroll, an ND junior from LaGrange, Ill. 
That publicity includes billboards, hats and posters promoting 'da Bulls and 'da Bears. In addition, a new commercial campaign featuring the Superfans is being aired during 'da Bulls' games. 
"There's billboards using 'da' everywhere," said Lara Crosby, an ND junior from Evanston, Ill. "There's even ads for 'da ballet.'" 
It's not just ND/SMC students that have taken a liking to the Superfans. Ditka himself has taken on the language, dis­cussing the game between "Cleveland and 'da Bulls." What more could the Superfans ask for than a note of approval from Ditka? 
Except, of course, for polish sausage...or pork chops ... or beers...or bratwurst or ... 
Laurie Sessa and Jahnelle Harrigan contributed to this report. 
Beatty's film 'Bugsy' comes up empty 


By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Movie Critic 
This media splash is a hard one to figure. Is it a gangster movie? A star vehicle for Beatty? A probing look into the seedy lives and fascinating personae of members of organized crime in the early part of this century? 
The answer is none. "Bugsy" is a movie that makes much of itself, tries too hard, and comes up empty. Warren Beatty, who used to be a wonderful actor, has again duplicated himself Dick Tracy-style into another cartoon. His portrayal of this demented, ambitious, and gullible crime boss is flat and predictable. 
The movie gives us none of the requisite grit of mafia movies. These people, even Ben Kingsley (you will remember him as Ghandi), are more like movie stars than hard-boiled criminals. Warren Beatty is a poor choice for this part because he emits the aura of a politician rather than a gangster. 
There is one definite plus in this movie. It shows us the way people lived in the years after World War II. The costumes, buildings, cars, and even the manners of the people are right on target. Obviously, a lot of money was spent on props and research. 
Another plus is the cast. Who ever 

Bugay 
Produced by Mark Jokins, Barry Levinson, and Warren Beatty Directed by Barry Levinson * * 1t2 
(out of five) 
Now playing at University Park East 
heard of Ben Kingsley, Joe Mantegna, and Elliot Gould in supporting roles? Each of these luminaries glinted in their unobtrusive places, giving the movie class. 
A nice surprise came from Annette Bening who plays Bugsy's mistress/business partner. Her lines were characteristic gangster-moll drivel, but she delivered them convincingly. 
She faded behind the bombastic figure of deatty in their scenes together, but when the camera rests on her alone she is an excellent actress, capable of turning the audience to her favor even during her most uncivilized behavior. 
The interesting thing about this movie is that the story is not that of a usual gangster flick. It focuses on Bugsy's legitimate enterprises, and his founding of the Hotel Flamingo, which started the glitz-palace casino rush in Las Vegas. 
Further it unsurprisingly studies his relationship with a woman. What is this? A romance novel? A success story? 
Who ever said that criminals could be shown as people? 
It really is an ambitious thing that Beatty has tried. He really wants us to like Bugsy, but to realize that he is still criminal. He tries to make him into a funny, loveable, silly character, who occasionally beats people to pulps. The writers, the directors, and most especially Beatty have completely missed the point. 
Why do audiences love Al Pacino in "The Godfather," and Albert Finney in "Miller's Crossing," and even Dustin Hoffman in "Billy Bathgate"? Maybe they do because these characters are rotten to the core. 
Evil is attractive. Real gangster movies understand that. They know that if you let the audience see that these criminals have hearts, they will no longer demand respect and adoration. 
Bugsy Siegel is weak. He isn't really a gangster. He is a slightly crazy man who has been known to do illegal things to make money. This wouldn't be so bad if Beatty didn't try to make him into a gangster. 
The failed attempt is worse than not trying in this case. If "Bugsy" was just supposed to show us Bugsy-the-man instead of Bugsy-the-mobster the movie would be all right. Instead, we get Bugsy-the-man and his vain attempts at evil. Nice try, Warren. 
-
.. 
-
. --------~-----.... 

r page 12 The Observer Tuesday,Janua~21, 1992 Nokes and Dibble sign new deals, avoid arbitration 
' 


Classifieds 
I NOTICES 
NEED EXTRA MONEY? Men and Women needed to substitute for news carriers. Call Kathy 4026 
7 DAYS OF COMPLETE AND UTIER MADNESS ON SOUTH PADRE ISLAND FROM $199­CALL JAMES AT 277-9249 
USED TEXTBOOKS I Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from NO 233-234211 0-5:30 M-Sun 
ALTERATIONS AND 
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 
259-8684.
-
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
RIGHT TO LIFE Those who are traveling to Washington, D.C., please meet at the Main Circle by 9:30pm tonight I 
MATH TUTOR-All levels. Don't wait 1il it's too latel271-1532 
FAST EASY INCOME I Earn 1 OO's Weeekly Stuffing envelopes. Send self-addressed stamped envelope to: Extra income I 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL 60681-1699 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: gold/brass earring medium sized, hook goes through your earring hole type, hanging kind of tear drop shaped with a thing in 
-
the middle (hard to describe) Found it in front of the library right before break CALL 288-9421 if this sounds familiar 
Found: PHYSICS textbook in Stephan lot. 277-6875 LOST: Ladies gold watch. Lost Mon. morning, 1/20. If found PLEASE call Tanya at x2738. REWARD. 
LOST: HEAVY GOLD CHAIN ON FRIDAY 1/17/92 BETWEEN ADMIN. BLDG. & ACC. CALL 289-8227 IF FOUND. REWARD. 
Found: a red scarf from NDE 4th Day at St. Ed's on Wednes­day, January 15. Please call Andrea at x2928. 
LOST 8 in. men's gold rope bracelet at Senior Bar Thur. Night call Chris Burke x4057 

WANTED 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS I PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
Spring Break to Florida Beaches Energetic Promoter needed. Earn FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI at 1-800-423-5264. 
SALES OPPORTUNITY -Motivated for independence and 30% commission? The right time is NOW (317) 782-8907. 
TEACHERS NEEDED The Ronkin Educational Group is looking for highly qualified instructors for air LSAT, GMAT, GRE, and MCAT prep courses. Part time Work/Flexible hourS/Good salary. Please call 273-1866. 
The Rankin Educational Group is seeking part-time student workers for a unique grad. school prep. company. Many different postions available. Flexible Hours/ Good salary. Please call 273-1866. 
$40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASYI Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB 
NEW YORK (AP) -Matt Nokes tied Brian Harper for the top salary among catchers, agreeing Monday to a $7.5 mil­lion, three-year contract with the New York Yankees. 
Nokes, who made $887,500 last season, gets a $750,000 signing bonus and annual salaries of $2.25 million under a deal that was essentially completed last week and an­nounced Monday. His average annual salary of $2.5 million matches the $5 million, two­year deal that Harper and the Minnesota Twins agreed to Dec. 19. 
Three other players settled Monday, leaving 130 players remaining in arbitration. Reliever Rob Dibble and Cincinnati agreed on a one-year deal for $1.4 million, while in­fielder Dave Magadan and the New York Mets split the differ­ence and settled at $1,393,750. 
Catcher B.J. Surhoff and Milwaukee settled for a $2.15 million, non-guaranteed con­tract, the same deal they agreed to last Thursday and unagreed to on Friday. 
Nokes, 28, would have been eligible for free agency after the 1992 season. He hit .268 in 1991 with 77 RBis and led the Yankees with 24 home runs, the most homers for a Yankees catcher since Elston Howard hit 28 in 1963. 
"Matt was outstanding for us 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK SAVE $ON YOUR SPRING TO LIVE I DO IT RIGHTI SPRING BREAK TRIPI! Travel vouchers BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN, good for airfare, hotel, & car FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL, rental worth $450. I need to AIR, TRANSFERS. sell-they expire! Best offer! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-X3352 7710. 

TICKETS 
Actor needs photographer for b/w 
head shots. 2354 JOHN COUGAR monday jan 27 great seats cheap 
I need a ride to Alabama 1167 or 2845404 for Spring Break. Call Bob-2455. 

I PERSONAL FOR RENT 
I INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. ==------------1 Good rates. Save Money. Call me 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR for a quote 9:30-6:00, CAMPUS. SECURITY 289-1993. Office near campus. SYSTEM.FOR FALL1992. 272­6306 
A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I 
Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR Boston/NY City. Super kids, great CAMPUS ... SECURITY SYSTEM ... food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ WASHER & DRYER... 4 staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, BEDROOMS... 10 MO. LEASE ... 4 arts/crafts, all land/water sports, OR 5 STUDENTS ... DEPOSIT fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for REQUIRED ... 259-7801 OR 255-shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, 5852 FOR MORE INFO! photography, computers, rocketry, 
guitar, radio, video, yearbook, 
newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL RN, morel UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP PAUL. EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., 
Eastchester, NY 10707. 
800/955-CAMP. TRTL CRK 2BD TWNHM FOR RENTII 1-4 PPL. $150/MO, EVN IF ALONEI DON,T BE A FOOL, SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER THIS IS PRFCT, NO RULESII VACATIONS I CALL MARK AND WELL WORK A Jamaica, Bahamas including DEALI-1570! airfare, great hotel, and much more 
from only $599. Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136.

FOR SALE 
Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a Monica Eigelberger is no longer a Notre Dame Cook. $3. ho. But Sara Marion is. M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml 
49120. sunkist, enjoy the white stuff, but don't leave the powder on your nose 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100,65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from HINK SUMMER! THINK SUMMER thousands starting $25. FREE 24 INTERNS! Opportunity to meet Hour Recording Reveals Details company representatives at the 801-379-2929 Copyright# SUMMER JOB FAIR -WED. JAN. 1N11KJC 23 JACC Monogram Room -1 to 5 
p.m. Bring copies of resume. 
last season both at the plate and behind it, and we expect him to continue that success," Yankees general manager Gene Michael said. "We are very pleased he has made this commitment to the organiza­tion." 
Nokes had asked for $2.6 million in arbitration last Friday while the Yankees had offered $1.9 million. 
Magadan made $1.25 million in an injury-plagued 1991, when he slumped to a .258 av­erage with four homers and 51 RBis. The Mets had offered a 5 percent cut to $1,187,500 and the infielder had asked for $1.6 million. 
"Someone would ask, 'Why did we offer a cut and give him a raise?'" Mets general man­ager AI Harazin said. "It's all part of the process. It's a give and take. We're just glad we got it done. It's one less possible 
arbitration." 
Dibble, eligible for arbitration 
for the first time, had asked for 
$1.8 million and Cincinnati had 
offered $1 million. In addition 
to his base salary, Dibble would 
get a $50,000 bonus for 
appearing in 60 games. Last 
year, he made $500,000. 
Dibble was 3-5 with a 3.17 
ERA in 1991, when he 
appeared in 67 games and had 
a career-high 31 saves. It was a 
troubled year for the 28-year­
old right-hander. National 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nex1-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
League president Bill White suspended him for three games! for throwing at Eric Yelding of: Houston, and four games for, hitting a fan with a ball Dibble threw into the stands at Riverfront Stadium. Dibble later said he would get counseling to control his temper. 
Surhoff, 27, hit . 289 last sea­son with five homers and 68 RBis. The deal came apart last Friday over whether it would be guaranteed, and he then sub­mitted a $2.6 arbitration re­quest to Milwaukee's $2 million. Surhoff made $1,085,000 last season. 

TALL "COWBOY" wanted for Country/Western dance partner. Call Jen x1715 
Attention! Billy Hunter applications for O.S.U are due by the end of month. Nice knowin ya'. 
ATIENTION Women of Farley Hall: Pop Farley Week continues tonight with the infamous TALENT SHOW. Be at Theodore's at 7:30 p.m. for the festivities. 
Bobby T. Dickinson and Goose Rosemann are missed madly by hose-wearing, cello-playing, deeper-psychological types like mo. 
hey nil 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 
The lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
FAX MACS Fax your Mac documents for $1 page. Free campus pick-up of your disk. Call Michael at 237-1864. 
ATIENTION: To anyone who has said "Ballroom dancing -I've always wanted to do that!" Now's your chancel Classes begin Thursday Jan 23 at Stepan Center from 8:00­
9:30 pm. We'll learn the tango and 3 other new dances. No partner or experience is needed. Give it a try ­you know you want to. 
NAKED MEN, CLEANING UP YOUR PAD I Does this idea appeal to you? Then call NAKED HOUSECLEANERS Our leggy chambermen have stamina, good looks and uncontrollable libidos. Call us and Tim, Beef, John and Rich will scrub your troubles away ...NAKED. 
I have a large loaf of bread. 
Plane Jane next time you play cards do not cheat. 
Looking for a Summer Job? Company representatives will be at the SUMMER JOB FAIR -JACC Monogram Room ­JAN. 22, 1 to 5 p.m. to discuss summer employment opportunities. Bring copies of your resume. 
Attention ND/SMC 
LULAC is proud to invite everyone to a mixer on Friday night at Theodore's. Music is by Martin-E­Mix and it's guaranteed to be the night of your life, so if you don't show up, you'll really regret it. 
Yo Jen, 
What's up with these quiet classifieds lately. Did I leave you speechless or something? 
Lost: James Campbell's mustache. If found, please contact English Dept. 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL SALE OF 
GUATEMALAN GOODS JAN. 22, 23, & 24 WED. THURS. FRI. 
SORIN ROOM -LA FORTUNE 9-5 
A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Panama City $99, Padre $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 or lisa 283-4667. 
NROTC Mids: Which A-6 jock turns 33 today? Is it.....Jake or the "Fatman?" Happy Birthday Jizl -Mongus. 
SUMMER JOB FAIR! JACC MONOGRAM ROOM ­WED., JAN. 22 -1 to 5 p.m. Meet with company representatives and discuss summer employment. Bring copies of your resume. All majors welcome! 
Kellley, Kelley, Kelley, Kelley K-E-L-L-E-Y! 
Dehere's 31 lifts The Hall past No. 22 St. John's,75-60 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) ­If Seton Hall manages to turn things around and earn a berth in the NCAA Tournament, the Pirates may look back to Monday night's game against No. 22 St. John's as a turning point. "If we would have lost this going into (No. 6) Ohio State on Sunday, I don't know what would have happened," Pirates captain and senior forward Gordon Winchester said. "We would have down and it really would have been tough." The Pirates don't have to worry about that now -be­cause in a game they had to win, they did. Terry Dehere scored 23 of his  season-high 31 points in the first half when The Pirates took control and ended a three-game losing streak by beating St. John's 75-60. The Big East game was the first this season for Seton Hall (10-5, 3-4) as an unranked team, and the Pirates played like a club that was desperate. for a win. They hounded St. John's (10-5, 4-3) on defense, took advantage of the Redmen's manpower problems in the frontcourt, and got a big game from Dehere, whose previous season-high had been 23. "We didn't care how we looked or how we played," Pirates coach P.J. Carlesimo said. "We needed a win, and this was a good turnaround."  Dehere, who missed a couple of minutes because of leg cramps early in the second half, capped two game-breaking spurts for Seton Hall -one in each half ­and had a big as­sist on a basket by Arturas Karnishovas after St. John's inched within 64-58 with less than four minutes to play. Dehere added two free throws after Karnishovas' basket to put Seton Hall up 68-58 and St. John's never threatened again in suffering its worst loss of the season. The Redmen's previous worst loss was 91-81 to No. 1 Duke on Dec. 5. "This is definitely a confi­dence booster for us to get a win after dropping three in a row," said Dehere. who hit 10 of  21 from the field, mixing up his jumper with some nice drives to the hoop. "We felt this was a must-win game for us." Malik Sealy had 19 for St. John's, which played without injured center Robert Werdann and then lost forward Shawnelle Scott to an ankle in­jury in the first half and backup center Mitchell Foster on fouls with 7:45 to play. "We have three or four guys on this team who are strug­gling," Sealy said after the Redmen lost for the third time in five games. "We can't be concerned about Rob or Shawnelle. We have to play without them, but I'm an opti­mist. This can't go on forever." Seton Hall never seemed to Men's IH continued from page 20 the Big Red will attempt to gain their first win of the season, behind the play of guards LeRon Moore and Kyle Garlitz and the inside work of forward Chris Smariga. "It would be nice to get our first win of the season," said  lose control after its two big runs. After Derek Brown got St. John's within 21-17, Karnishovas hit two free throws to start a 10-1 burst. Luther Wright and Bryan Caver added baskets and Dehere capped it with an ally-oop layup and two free throws. Seton Hall, which led 38-31 at halftime, opened the final 20 minutes with a 7-0 burst. Karnishovas started the run with a shot in the lane and Jerry Walker followed with a free throw and a rebound bas­ket. Dehere added a jumper to make it 45-31 and St. John's got no closer than six the rest of the way. Smariga. "I know that we have the talent, it's just a matter of finding the right chemistry." Grace will rely on their tran­sition game to carry them to their second win of the season. "We are a lot smaller than most teams, so we have to run a lot more," said captain Shane Schoeneck. "Rebounding is the key. If we rebound, we should do well."  
~~ Es~ ~~ ~~ i Spanish Mass ~ Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome Sunday, January 26 10:00 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel Celebrante Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C.  - 
-~ (?MPUSMINISTRY  Sponsored byCampus MinistryOffice of Minority Affairs  - 

page 13 The Observer Tuesday, January 21, 1992 

Mike Tyson's rape trial set to begin in Indianapolis 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) convicted, Tyson could face a pageant contestants, according Exchange the palm trees and 63-year prison term. to a lawsuit filed by pageant balmy Gulf Stream breezes for While Patricia Bowman, the owner J. Morris Anderson, snow drifts and freezing woman who brought charges which labeled the former weather, and the rape cases against Smith, was 31, the heavyweight champion a "serial against William Kennedy Smith Indianapolis prosecutor's have buttocks fondler." Though and boxer Mike Tyson look a teen-age complainant whom Anderson has since dropped the alike. they may portray as naive and suit, Rosie Jones, Miss Black 
A wealthy young man visiting too trusting, says law professor America of 1990, filed a sepa­from out-of-town meets a Henry C. Karlson of Indiana rate federal suit in New York, woman. They spend an evening University-Purdue University alleging Tyson rubbed and together. He asks her over to his Indianapolis. Smith was squeezed her buttocks. place. She agrees. acquitted. "If I were Tyson's attorney, 
Then their stories diverge. "They are going to try to show my defense would be to show She emerges from the chance her as a starry-eyed young girl, he was grabbing everyone in acquaintance with a charge of away from home for the first sight for two days," Karlson rape, he protesting his inno­time," Karlson said Monday. said. "I would put it on the cence. "A famous man says, 'Look, record to show that everyone 
And from that point, a legal when you're done here, why knew what he wanted," expert speculates, the strategies don't you come over to my hotel including the 18-year-old of prosecution and defense room for a party.'. Only he woman who agreed to attorneys may diverge sharply doesn't tell her she's the party," accompany Tyson to his hotel from the Smith case when he said. suite, he said. Tyson goes on trial for rape And while Smith portrayed Indiana's rape shield law, Monday. himself on the witness stand as similar to laws in other states, 
A Marion Superior Court jury little worse than an opportunist, will prevent the defense from will judge Tyson on four Tyson's lawyers could score presenting evidence of the al­charges stemming from an al­points by making their client leged victim's sexual history. leged assault July 19 against an appear sexually aggressive, up Court law will also prohibit evi­18-year-old contestant in the to a point, Karlson said. dence about Tyson's personal Miss Black America Pageant. If Tyson repeatedly fondled history, legal experts say. 



SCOREBOARD
page 14 
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 

NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDING 
WALES CONFERENCE ~ASTERN CONFEREN~E BASEBALL 
Atlantic Dlvlalon w ~ Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni
Patrick Dfvlalon American League
New York 23 14 .622 5-5 Won 1 15-4 8-10 18-10
w L T Pts GF GA Horne Away Div MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms w~h 
Boston 24 15 .615 5·5 Won 3 16-5 8-10 14-11
NY Rangers 30 17 1 61 189 159 16-6·1 14-11-0 11-8-0 B.J. Surhofl, catcher, on a one-year contract. 
Philadelphia 18 21 .462 6 5-5 Won 2 11·7 7-14 11-14
Waahlngton 28 15 4 60 204 155 13-7-1 15-8-3 13-7-0 NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms whh
Miami 18 22 .450 6 112 4-6 Won 1 13-6 5-16 14-12
Pittsburgh 24 16 5 53 203 169 10-8-4 14-8-1 12-10-2 Man Nokes. catcher, on a three-year contract. New Jersey 22 15 7 51 172 134 15-6-3 7-9-4 7-9-4 National League
New Jersey 17 21 .447 6112 7-3 Won 3 11·10 6-11 9-16 Washington 14 24 .368 9112 4-6 Lost 3 6-13 8-11 7-16
NY Islanders 17 22 6 40 168 183 10-9-4 7-13-2 7-8-3 CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with Rob 
5-14-3 4-12-3 Orlando 8 29 .216 15 2-8 Lost 1 4·13 4-16 7·15
Philadelphia 14 21 9 37 126 151 9-7-6 Dibble, pitcher. on a one-year contract.
Central Dlvlalon
Adame Dlvlelon MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms whh Scan
Chicago 33 5 .868 9·1 Won 9 18-2 15-3 22-3
Montreal 29 15 4 62 152 110 18-5-1 11-10-3 14-6-2 Service. pitcher. on a minor-league contract.
Cleveland 25 12 .676 7112 7-3 Lost 1 16-4 9-8 19-6
Boston 22 18 5 49 159 157 15-6-2 7-12-3 11-7-2 Named Martin Robhaille coach for Jamestown of 
Buffalo 18 21 8 40 156 166 12-7-4 4-14-4 6-10-3 Detro~ 22 17 .564 11 112 7-3 Lost 1 13-8 9-9 12·11 
the N&W York-Penn League and Kevin Greatrex 
Atlanta 20 18 .526 13 7-3 Won 1 13-6 7-12 9·13
Hamord 15 22 5 35 130 147 8-9-5 7-13-0 7-11-3 Australian scout. lnv~ed Matt Maysey. Sergio 
Milwaukee 19 18 .514 13 112 6-4 Won 2 14-5 5-13 12-13
Quebec 11 28 5 27 138 181 11-11-1 0-17-4 6-10-2 Valdez. Dean Wilkins and Blaine Beatty. pitchers; 
Indiana 15 25 .375 19 3-7 Lost 1 12-9 3-16 8-14
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Jerry Golf. catcher; Arcl Cianlrocco. infielder; and 
Charlone 11 29 .275 23 3-7 Lost 4 7-11 4-18 7-16
Norrie Dlvlalon Eric Bullock and Rob Katzarolf. outfielder. to spring 
w L T Pts GF GA Horne Away Dlv WESTERN CONFERENCE training. Detroh 26 13 6 58 185 150 16-6-2 10-7-4 12-5-2 Mldweet Dlvlalon NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terms with Dave Chicago 20 18 10 50 160 147 16-6-4 4-12-6 8-8-4 w L Pet GB LtO Streak Home Away Coni Magadan, Infielder, on a one-year contract. St. Louis 20 18 8 48 163 159 14-5-3 6-13-5 7-10-3 Utah 25 15 .625 7-3 Won 3 16-1 9-14 13·6 BASKETBALL 
Minnesota 20 20 3 43 147 156 13-8-2 7-12-1 9·8-3 San Antonio 21 17 .553 3 5-5 Lost 2 11-5 10-12 14-10 National Beaketball Aaaoclatlon Toronto 12 29 5 29 116 170 8-12-2 4-17-3 8-11-2 Houston 20 18 .526 4 4-6 Lost 2 11-7 9-11 12-9 MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Piaced Tom Smythe Dlvlelon Denver 15 23 .395 9 3-7 Lost 1 12-9 3-14 9-16 Garrick, guard, on the Injured list. Activated Tad Vancouver 25 13 7 57 161 132 15-5-4 10-8-3 15-6-3 Dallas 12 26 .316 12 0-10 Lost 11 7-13 5-13 8·14 Murphy, forward.lrom the injured list. Calgary 20 19 6 46 175 159 11-6-3 9-13-3 9-9-2 Minnesota 7 31 .184 17 3-7 Lost 5 5-16 2-15 5-21 Continental 818ketball Association Winnipeg 19 20 8 46 145 148 13-10-2 6-10-6 6-9-5 Pacific Dlvlalon COLUMBUS HORIZON-Named Fred Bryan Los Angel"" 17 19 9 43 162 175 9-7-7 8-12-2 9-8-5 Golden State 25 10 .714 8-2 Won 4 12-5 13·5 18·8 coach. Edmonton 17 23 7 41 164 186 9-8-3 8-15-4 9-11-4 Phoenix 26 13 .667 1 7-3 Won 7 16-3 10-10 18-7 HOCKEY San Jose 10 32 4 24 116 200 8-11-2 2-21-2 7-12-3 Portland 25 13 .658 1 112 7-3 Lost 1 16-5 9-8 10-9 National Hockey League 
Sunday"• Gemea Monday·a Gemea
Seturday·a Game LA Lakers 23 15 .605 3112 6-4 Won 1 13-6 10-9 13-10 LOS ANGELES KINGS-Traded Daniel 
Ca~lltO. Wal811 6 Seanle 20 19 .513 7 4-6 Lost 1 12-7 8-12 14-9 Berthiaume. goalie. to the Boston Bruins for future LA Clippers 20 20 .500 7 112 4-6 Won 1 14-7 6-13 11-13 considerations. Sacramento 11 27 .289 15 112 3-7 Won 1 8·8 3-19 4-17 
No Aames scheduled No games scheduled 

You'veJustBeen Oeared ForTakeOff 
You can get a lot more out oflife when Depending on where you fly, each the Card will say a lot about you. For one you set your sights a little school year travel certifi­thing it says you have a handle on what you cate is good for spend, so you don't have to carry over a bal­
higher. Which --.... 
is what applying $129 or $189 round­ance. It also says you're smart enough not to for the American Express" trip-and each summer travel pay interest charges that can really add up. 
-
-
Card is all about. When you get the Card, its easier to do the things you want to do. And with the student savings that come along with it, you can do even more. 
Fly roundtrip on Continental 
for less than $100 each way. Student Cardmembers receive four travel certificates. They can be used to fly any­where Continental Airlines flies in the 48 contiguous United States. Two for the school year, and two for the summer.* 
So take a few minutes Airfare examples 
certificate is good for $149 or now to call (have$199 roundtrip. 
based on destination. 
your bank address 
Your School
Savings that upgrade 
Roundtrips Year Fare 
and account numberyour lifestyle. 
New York-Los Angeles $189 
ready), and apply
Boston-Orlando $129
As a student Card member you 
San Francisco-Denver $129 
for the American get more than great travel sav­
Express Card.
ings. You also save money on everything With all that the Card offers you, notfrom clothing to long distance phone calls. 
even the sky is the limit.
All for a $55 annual fee. 
THE CARD.
Obviously, savings like these say a lot about the value of the Card. And having THE AMERICAN EXPRESS" CARD. 
Get going, call1-800~967~AMEX. 
Ifyou 1re already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. 
•School year is considered Sept. 1-june 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no· liability for Continental Airlines' performance. 

© 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. An Amencan Express company 
--~----------­
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 The Observer page 15 

Perkins leads Lakers over SuperSonics, 116-110 

with a short hook shot that put the Celtics ahead for good with 
1:07 left. After the Cavs' John Battle missed an 18-footer, Lewis was fouled and made both free throws for a three­point Boston lead, and Battle then fumbled away his dribble to set up a Boston fast break capped by Ed Pinckney's layup with 13.4 seconds remaining, clinching it for the Celtics. 
Warriors 135, Hornets 119 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-Chris Mullin scored 29 points and Golden State exploited Charlotte's sloppy play at both ends of the court to defeat the Hornets. 
Golden State, which had eight players score in double-figures, riddled Charlotte's interior de­fense, scoring 74 points from in the key. The Warriors also grabbed 18 offensive rebounds, which led to 24 second-chance points. 
On the offensive end, the Warriors forced the Hornets to commit 25 turnovers, two shy of Charlotte's season high, and converted the miscues into 34 points. 
Sarunas Marciulionis addild 22 points, Tyrone Hill had 17 and Victor Alexander and Mario Elie each had 16 for Golden State, which has won four in a row. 
Larry Johnson scored 26 points and grabbed 11 re­bounds for Charlotte, which lost its fourth in a row. Kendall Gill added 21 points for the Hornets. 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Sam Perkins scored 17 of his 25 points in the first half Monday to lead the Los Angeles Lakers to a 116-110 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics. 
A.C. Green had 16 points and 16 rebounds and Sedale Threatt had 15 points for the Lakers, who have won six of their last eight games and beaten Seattle 16 consecutive times at the Forum, including playoff games. 
The loss was the first for the Sonics under interim coach Bob Kloppenburg, who replaced the fired K.C. Jones last week. George Karl is expected to be named coach of the Sonics later in the week. 
The Sonics had won their first two games under Kloppenburg, the second a 112-108 victory over the the Lakers on Saturday night in Seattle. 
Eddie Johnson led the Sonics with 29 points. Knicks 105, Pacers 97 
NEW YORK (AP) -Patrick Ewing scored 25 points and grabbed 14 rebounds and New York held Indiana to six points in the final 7:16. 
New York trailed 91-87 with 
7:16 remaining, but used a 9-0 spurt over the next 3:38 to gain the lead 96-91. Anthony Mason capped the run with a three­point play. 
Indiana got as close as two points after that, 96-94, when Chuck Person made 1 of 2 foul shots with 2:19 left. But the Pacers hit only one field goal in the final 7:16 and were 5 of 10 from the foul line in the fourth quarter. 
John Starks scored six of New York's final nine points and finished with 21, 11 in the fourth quarter. Xavier McDaniel had 16. 
Celtics 107, Cavaliers 102 
RICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) ­Reggie Lewis scored 26 points and Robert Parish had 20 in­cluding the go-ahead hook shot with a minute left for Boston. 
The win was the third straight for the injury-riddled Celtics, playing without Larry Bird and Kevin McHale. Cleveland, which was missing injured starters Larry Nance and Brad Daugherty, lost for the third time in its last four games, all at home. 
The Cavaliers trailed most of the second half but scored six straight points -two by Mark Price and four by John Williams -to take a 100-99 lead on Williams' driving layup with 
1:27 to go. Parish, however, answered 
Use it to alter your grades. 

You just got a C+ in Political Theory and a B-in Medical Ethics. Sounds like you could use a little help ­from an Apple® Macintosh® computer. 
AMacintosh can help you with your homework. Help you with your term papers. Help you with your research projects. And help you organize your study time and think more clearly. And at last count Macintosh could run thousands of software programs to help you with everything from linguistics to law. Physics to philosophy. Medicine to Medieval history. 
The Notre Dame Computer Store has the perfect 

Apple Computer,Inc. 
way to help make this semester alittle easier. We have Apple Macintosh Classic® II computers in stock­waiting for you. You can take one home the same day you purchase it. And if you purchase an Apple StyleWriter® printer with your Macintosh Classic II you can save a bundle. Buy both the computer and the printer before Tuesday,January 28 and save an additional $150. 
The point being, when you bring aMacintosh home with you, there's agood chance you'll be bringing home something else. Better grades. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00 am-5:00 pm 
© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. 
Corrections: 
In Monday's Oberver, a hockey player was incor­rectly identified. The player was Kevin Patrick. Also, the Saint Mary's basketball games are on Thursday, January 23 at Rosary College and Saturday, January 25 at home against Hope College. We regret the errors. 

HELP WANTED 
1. 
Would you like to work for yourself? 

2. 
Would you like to set your own hours? 

3. 
Are you self-motivated? 

4. 
Are you abit of an entrepreneur? 


If you answered YES to all of the above, 
you are just the person we're looking for! 
As an American Passage Campus Rep­
resentative, you will be responsible for 
placing advertising on bulletin boards. 
You will also have theopportunityto work 
on marketing programs for such clients 
as American Express, Ford and IBM. There are no sales involved. Many of our reps stay with us long alter graduation. For more information, call or write us at the following address: 
NEED TO 
DOCTOR YOUR 
MCATSCORE? 
Ifyour MCAT sa:xe ~a shot intheann, cxxne to the experts in testpceplllatlon­Stanley H. Kaplan 
Ourtest·takinQ technlques and educational rmewwiD help you be in mp C1Xldition lestdll';: We'D notonlysharpen yoursdenllllc knc:MiedQe, but your tading. problem-solving and essay-writingskills too. 
Socall the best in lest prep-l(aplan. And,aan ~sa:xethat youciae:rw. 



JKAPLAN 
SillilY..UfUI--c.llllll. DONTCOMI'ET'E WITH AICAPlAN STUDEHT-BE ONE 
! 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I' 
I 
I 
I 
page 16 
No. 3 Cowboys squeak by No. 17 Sooners, 92-89 
NORMAN, Okla. (AP) -
Darwyn Alexander equaled his 
career high with 24 points, in­
cluding two free throws with 
five seconds left, lifting No. 3 
Oklahoma State to thrilling a 
92-89 victory over No. 17 
Oklahoma Monday night and 
giving the Cowboys their best 
start ever. 
Oklahoma State (17 -0) sur­passed the mark of 16-0 set by the 1950-51 team and is 3-0 in the Big Eight for the first time since 1980-81. The Cowboys snapped an 11-game losing streak in Norman. 
Oklahoma (11-3, 1-2), could not make up a 14-point second-half deficit and was held to 43-percent shooting by the Cowboy defense. 
The Sooners pulled within 90-89 when Terry Evans hit a 3-pointer with 32 seconds left. The Cowboys were then able to work 27 seconds off the clock before Alexander was sent to the line. 
Alexander, an 80-percent foul shooter, made both shots. Brent Price then missed a 3­pointer in the final seconds. Price led Oklahoma with 26 points, 18 of them in the second half. 
Corey Williams had 21 points and Byron Houston had 17 despite foul trouble. Jeff Webster had 21 for Oklahoma, 17 in the first half, before fouling out with 6:46 remaining in the contest. 
A six-point run late in the first half-sparked by a tech­nical foul on Oklahoma coach Billy Tubbs -gave the Cowboys a seven-point lead. They stretched it to eight by halftime. 
Houston picked up his fourth foul 1:51 into the second half, but the Cowboys scored the next six points to take a 58-45 lead. They increased it to 14 three times and led 71-60 with 
9:52 left. 
Oklahoma then used a 9-2 
run to make it 73-69. The 
Cowboys were unable to pull 
away again and the Sooners 
eventually pulled within 90-89 
on Evans' 3-pointer. 
Oklahoma had the tempo to its liking early and had good luck working the ball inside against the smaller Cowboys. The result was a 17-11 lead four and a half minutes into the game. 
But following a timeout, the Sooners missed eight straight shots and committed two turnovers. 
Meanwhile, Oklahoma State got 3-pointers from both Sean Sutton and Alexander and a drive from Houston to take a 19-17 lead. 
From there, the Cowboys negated Oklahoma's running game and were content to spread the floor and work the clock. 
They got a 10-3 run during one stretch -scoring on five straight possessions -to take a 34-31 lead with about three minutes left in the half. 
A short time later, Houston hit a follow shot and Tubbs was called for the technical. Alexander hit the free throws and Randy Davis scored on the ensuing possession to make it 42-35. 
Oklahoma closed within 42­40 on five straight points from Webster, but the Cowboys seized the momentum again by scoring the final six points before halftime. 
Oklahoma State scored on 11 of its final 13 possessions of the first half and outshot the Sooners 68 percent to 35 per­cent in the opening 20 minutes. 
lAKf lHf KfYS. CAll ACAB. lAKf ASTANO. fRifNOS OON'l lH fRifNOS ORIVf DRUNK 
Prep Plus'" For tlie MCAT: The Best Medical Insurance 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your msurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'II let you repeat the entire course ...at 
no charge! We offer expert live instruction, innovative home studv materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE,. labs a~d lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined' 
8 Sli\NLEY H. KAPlAN 
~Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations caii800-KAP-TEST 
The Observer Tuesday, January 21, 1992 


Jamaicans are ready for Albertville 
(AP)-Undaunted by its first adventure over the snow and ice of Calgary and the occa­sional crash landings that come with the territory, the Jamaican bobsled team returns next month for another go at the Olympics, this time in Albertville. 
Say this for its members. They 
don't give up easily. 
"Oh, no," said team captain Devon Harris, in the lilting singsong of the Islands. "We would not do that. It was not a stunt or a one-shot thing. It was a serious effort to show that a team from a tropical country could be competitive. We had to prove that. 
"A number of people thought we were jokers, that we would be like the Swiss playing cricket and get hammered. We had to prove we were serious." 
Of course, they were serious. You knew that from the reggae theme song that accompanied them through the streets of Calgary at all hours of the day and night. 
In part, it went this way: 
"We be trainin', gainin', strainin' and painin', but we ain't complainin' 
Jamaica bobsled, ragamuffin, Jamaica bobsled, we ruff'n tuff'n. 
Everything cool. mon." Nothing funny about that, right? 
So Harris and his pals stayed in their sleds, running in sand and lugging pushcarts around on Carribbean concrete, then traveling to train in snow and ice in places like Calgary and Innsbruck. 
Seven of them will be in Albertville, where Jamaica will enter a pair of two-man sleds and one four-man team. The four-man driver will be Dudley Stokes, and as such he gets the first look at the treacherous curves and corners. He says he is delighted with his job. 
"I think it's scarier in back," Stokes said. "I have confidence in myself. When you're behind somebody else, it's tougher. In front, there's no time to worry. In back, you see it, you feel it happening. You think, 'It's coming!' You're a little light here, a little light there. The third time, you think, 'This could be it, boys!' There's too much time to think ... and to pray." 
So Stokes will sit up front, thank you. Harris, also a driver, agrees with his teammate's philosophy. He was a brakeman in Calgary, where the two-man Jamaican team finished 30th among 52 teams. 
And the four-man sled? 
"We had a mishap," Harris said sadly. That's a mishap, as in a crash. "We were going down merrily 
into curve 12. The driver was late getting into the corner. We went up too high on the wall and went over on our heads. We slid for 200 meters, upside down." 
This is not a comfortable condition and would be consid­ered a perfectly good reason for Harris and his buddies to head straight for the beach back home. Instead, they made a U­turn and went back to the top of the run. "We did it again," he said. "That is the best way when you have a crash." 
They caught the imagination of the Calgary crowds and the reaction spread around the world. "Mostly, Jamaicans who live overseas were affected in a positive way by what we did," Stokes said. "Overseas, Jamaicans have a siege mental­ity. This was something for them to hang their hats on. They were very appreciative." 
There have been other crashes, enough of them for Harris and Stokes to have lost count. Each time, the Jamaicans pick up their sled and do it over again, trying to perfect the run. 
They are getting closer. "The crashes are infrequent now," Stokes said. "At Calgary, we used old, second-hand sleds. This time we will have Dresden sleds rented from Germany. They are the best sleds on the surface right now." 
Their goal for Albertville is to crack the top 20 finishers in both the two-man and four-man events. And more importantly, not to look like the Swiss trying to play cricket. 
Watch 'em, mon. 

------~----~---~ 
---------~----------------.., Tuesday, January 21, 1992 The Observer page 17 

M.J. Fernandez and Sanchez Vicario reach semis 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Mary Joe Fernandez got through Tuesday at the Australian Open to reach the semifmals for the third straight year. 
Fernandez overcame a jammed toe that needed lengthy treatment during her match against fellow America Amy Frazier, then fought back from deficits in the second set and tiebreaker to win 6-4, 7-6 (8-6). 
Not so lucky was Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere, who strained tendons around the big toe of her right foot in doubles Monday and defaulted her quarterfinal singles match Tuesday against Arantxa Sanchez Vicario. 
Fernandez, a runner-up to Steffi Graf here two years ago, broke Frazier twice when she served for the second set, and won four consecutive games from 2-5 to go ahead 6-5 in the second set. 
Fernandez, 20, from Miami, Fla., jammed her toe late in the first set, and asked for a time out after her service was bro­ken to 1-2 in the second set. A trainer padded the toe, but Fernandez then went through a bout of wildness on serve. She 
double-faulted at 40-30 and eventually was broken again when she slapped a forehand wide. 
Frazier, more aggressive and taking more chances on both her groundstrokes and at the net, blew several opportunities to push the match into a third set. 
"She doesn't have much mar­gin for error," Fernandez said of Frazier's style. 
The 19-year-old from Rochester Hills, Mich., hit two unforced errors on forehands after leading 5-2 in the tiebreaker. Fernandez then tied it at 5-5 with a lovely forehand dropshot on a short ball, and went ahead 6-5 on a long back­hand by Frazier. Fernandez re­turned the favor to make it 6-6, then took the match when Frazier netted a forehand and a backhand on the next two points. 
"I love playing down here," Fernandez said. "Hopefully, the third time (in the semis) will be lucky for me. I know I'm com­peting well and playing well, but I still don't play the way I practice. A lot of it's mental." 
She said she has to be more aggressive and go for winners more than she's been doing. 
''I'm not going to win the tournament if I don't," said Fernandez, who plays the win­ner of Jennifer Capriati­Gabriela Sabatini match Tuesday night. 
Temperatures cooled down considerably on Tuesday, a day after the Australian Open turned into a colossal steam­bath -courts sizzling at 127 degrees, players wobbling out of matches, fans fainting in their seats. 
Medics treated about 20 fans of all ages who passed out in the heat, and several who suf­fered other symptoms of heat­stroke. 
Jim Courier delighted in the weather, dancing lightly in con­ditions that reminded him of home in Florida, complete with the same kind of lung-scalding breezes that buffet the courts where he honed his game. 
Courier, the No. 2 seed, pounded shots as hard as ever to beat Marc Rosset 6-3, 6-1, 6­3, and reach his fourth consec­utive Grand Slam quarterfinal. The goal now: a match against John McEnroe. 
"Absolutely," Courier said. "That'd mean I'm in the final. 
I'd love to play him." 
Courier beat McEnroe in a tuneup tournament in Adelaide, but was more impressed with him during practice. 
"He was taking my first serve early and coming in and playing well," Courier said. "He didn't do that when we played in our match. But I could see that he had pretty good feel with the balls." 
McEnroe showed he also can handle hot weather when he won his five-setter Sunday against Emilio Sanchez in 124­degree courtside temperatures. Top-seeded Stefan Edberg called McEnroe "Mr. Open," just as the Swede described Jimmy Connors at the U.S. Open last summer. 
While Courier escaped to the air-conditioned comfort· of· the player's lounge after beating Rosset, a fellow American suf­fered in the heat. 
Aaron Krickstein, a Michigan man with a reputation as one of the game's great marathoners, felt nauseous and woozy in the frl'th set against Amos Mansdorf and retired 6-2, 4-6, 1-6, 7-6 (7­4), 4-1. 
Krickstein, who was fine a short while later, said he had diarrhea before the match and began feeling stomach pains during the fourth set. 
"The heat sure didn't help," he said. "It was definitely the hottest day I've played since I've been here. I wasn't tired. It may have looked like it, but I actually felt OK. It was just tough to stand up out there." 
Mansdorf, a former Israeli soldier used to desert heat, drank his way out of trouble. 
"I felt very tired in the middle of the second set," said Mansdorf, who next meets Courier. "I felt like I was getting sunstroke, so I just made sure that I kept drinking a lot. I drank so much that I couldn't play, and I lost the third set 6-1 because I was so heavy. But then it paid off, because he was very tired at the end." 
Michael Stich quenched his thirst early, then pushed slug­gishly past Wally Masur, the last Australian left in the men's or women's singles, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4. Stich next meets Richard Krajicek, a 7-5, 7-6 (8­6), 6-3 winner at night against Christian Bergstrom. 
Preview 
continued from page 20 
Both the Bills and the Redskins also have excellent staffs, as evidenced by Indianapolis' interest in Buffalo offensive coordinator Ted Marchibroda and Washington defensive coordinator Richie Petitbon having been mentioned for several NFL head coaching vacancies this past month. 
Edge: Even. 
INTANGIBLES-The big question this week will be, are the Bills going to be the third two-time loser in the big game? Only the Broncos and the Minnesota Vikings have ever lost back-to-hack Super Bowls, and Buffalo has a chance at this dubious honor Sunday. 
While Bills' players and fans may brush aside these questions, the thought will be in the back of their minds, if for no other reason than it will be brought up countless times in the next week. Can Levy get his players to put the thought out of their minds, at least for three hours on Sunday? That will be his, and the Bills' challenge. 
For the Redskins, it comes down to whether it can continue the NFC's dominance of the Super Bowl. Washington was the last NFC team to lose in the big game, falling to the Los Angeles Raiders 38-9 in 1984. 
The key for Washington will be to downplay its role as the favorite. In that respect, having Gibbs for a coach will be a big factor. This is his fourth Super Bowl. He knows what it takes to win, and what it takes to lose. He'll have his team ready. 
And what does that mean for my roommate? I hope he can make the rent. 
MY GIRL PG 5:00 7:30 9:45 FATHER OF THE BRIDE PG 4:30 7:00 9:15 FREEJACK R 4:30 7:00 9:15 
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship is holding a Bible Study on Understanding Basic Christian Beliefs Tuesdays at 7:00 in Stanford chapel calli Kevin Xl417 Sean 277-4436 for more information ALL ARE INVITED !! 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 






Editor-in-Chief 1992-93 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill at The Observer, 239-7471. 
Ferran's Sutler Howl Previe\\' 

• 
• 
--==--M~ 
t\ORffiU c'fnTfR <TOR Ttff <f1 R T s 
An Evening of Chicago Blues, R & B, Gospel and Jazz KATHERINE 
DAVIS and SIDNEY JAMES 
WINGFIELD 
Saturday, February, 8, 8 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets: $7/$6 
South Bend Chamber Singers Valentine's Day Solo Recital Friday, Feb. 14, 8p.m., Haggar College Center Saint Mary's Theatre, Richard Harris' Stepping Out Feb. 26-March 1, O'Laughlin Auditorium Moscow Dramatic Ballet, inaugural U.S. tour Wednesday, March 4, 7:30p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium,Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Information: 2191284-4626 
-
Saint Ma~'s Coli~~ 
NOTRE DAME··INDIANA 
D~=======================================d 

• 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, January 21, 1992 
SPORTSBRIEFS 
•Late 
Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year-Late Night Olympics, Friday, Jan. 31. 

•Attention 
all Sailing Club members and officers. This will be a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, January 21 at 6:30p.m. in room 204 0' Shaugnessy. There will be information about elections and Comodore's Ball. Please attend. If you cannot attend call Moira at 284-534 or Adrienne at 284-5085. 

•The 
Cricket Club will have a mandatory meeting on Thursday, Jan. 23 in 105 O'Shaughnessy at 7 p.m. All persons interested must attend. Call Marko (3587) or Tim (1473) for details. 

•Hapkldo/Tae 
Kwon Do starts Monday, Jan. 20. Practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions. call Sean (3457). 

•Sportstalk 
Is tonight from 8 to 9 p.m. on 640 AM. Call in with your questions or comments at 239-6400. 

•Registration 
for Saint Mary's Winter Intermural Activities will take place today at the listed times: Basketball, 5:30 p.m.; indoor soccer, 6:00 p.m.; coed and women's volleyball, 6:30 p.m.; tennis doubles and singles, 7:00p.m. All meeting are held In Angela Athletic Facility. 

•The 
Aikido Club will begin practices Wednesday from 6 to 8 p.m. in 219 Rockne. 

•The 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club will hold a meeting Wednesday, January 22 at 7:30 p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library for all current members and anyone interested in riding this semester. We will set up a lesson schedule at this meeting so bring your checkbooks. 

•Attention 
all rowers. the first meeting of the year will be held on Wednesday, January 29. Novice rowers should begin running on your own, as official workouts begin January 31. Any questions call Dave Reeder. 


~he NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners' classes starting Thursday, January 23 in both Tae Kwon Do and Jiu­jitsu. Classes are 7:30 to 9:30p.m. on Thursday and 6-8 p.m. on Sunday in room 219 of the Rock. Advanced classes are Friday 6­8 p.m. and Saturday 10-12 a.m. 
•The NO Tae Kwon Do club will have practice for experienced and beginning students Tuesday and Thursday from 8:30 to 10 p.m. in the fencing gym of the J.A.C.C. Any questions, call Lisa at 283-4852. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Jan. 24 to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 



M.B.A ·J.D. ·M.D.· PH.D. 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, You WON'T GET THE LETTERS . 
EDUCATIONAL GROUP
•
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
WE'LL MAKESURE YOU MAKE IT. 
Women's IH set to resume play 
ByJIMVOGL 
Sports Writer 
Mter a month long layoff, the women's interhall basketball league resumed action with mixed feelings. 
"We would have liked to just have practice before break and then started the season with this semester," said Lewis se­nior Jill-Beth Hayes. 
This season the league scheduled one game before and three games after Christmas break. 
"We were out of practice and it showed," said Hayes, whose team managed a 29-18 win over Howard. "I didn't have time to adjust to my own schedule this semester." 
Hayes also cited the conflict many players had preparing for basketball in the fall semester so soon after the women's in­terhall football season. 
"I've recognized a lot of the more competitive players on the court from football," she said. 
Siegfried A scored the most lopsided victory of the week by trouncing Badin A, 46-14. Freshman Ellen Burns lead Siegfried A with 20 points. 
"The game started at 8 p.m .. so we got together at 6:30 p.m. and went over some of the things we practiced before break," Burns said. "We were cold at first but eventually we got into it and played aggres­sively. We were very organized and played well defensively." 
Siegfried's performance matched their dominating out­ing before break, when it de­feated Lyons, 48-22. 
"We really outplayed both teams. I really don't know what the competition is like, but I just hope we keep playing like we have been." Burns commented. 
In other action, Lewis Hall downed Howard, 29-18; Lyons downed Pasquerilla West, 30­18; and Knott beat Walsh 30­
24. In the Green division con­sisting of B teams, Farley B got off to a fast start and beat Siegfried B, 28-20. Also, Breen­Phillips B won by forfeit over Breen-Phillips B. 
Football signed by Rockne stolen 
LAPORTE, Ind. (AP) ­Bernadette Hemphill can't name anything special about her late brother's favorite pos­session -except that it was made of pigskin and carried the names Rockne, Layden and Stuhldreher. 
Mrs. Hemphill's brother, Paul Beckerich, cherished it and the University of Notre Dame. 
He lived near the South Bend campus for most of his 78 years and became acquainted with legendary football coach Knute Rockne and four of the school's most famous players. 
Mrs. Hemphill isn't sure when Rockne gave her brother the football signed by himself and two of the Four Horsemen, Elmer Layden and Harry Stuhldreher. 
But she is sure that it's gone now. She's also missing a ce­ramic figurine of a player that was another gift from Rockne. 
She discovered the items were missing about two weeks ago, and figured the alleged theft happened when she was in the hospital around Thanksgiving. 
"They must have known what they were looking for because I never told a soul I had them," said Mrs. Hemphill, who kept the items in a bag in her bed­room. "I'm quite ill over it. I feel very, very badly. I treasure them not only because they came from my brother, but from Knute Rockne." 
Bob Evans, owner of Sports Collectibles in South Bend, said the football is worth "maybe three thousand dollars." 
"But something like that is irreplaceable," Evans said. "It's too bad someone had to take it. I'm sure she would rather have it back than the three thousand dollars." 


% 
• 
12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty 
for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
NCUA 
NaiiOQOICr..:IIIUDIODMIIII&IIIIGIIOD
Independent from the University of Notre Dame 
oU5!0oo•111111.DIAg•ll<f 
-----·--------------------·------------------­
Tuesday, January 21, 1992 The Observer page 19 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON CALVIN AID HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 

::r:-wonder ;[she knows IeNst.. Should :L call ;, er? .htaybe she doesn· t­even /fnow :r exist? Well, maybe she does... I.'I/ call her. No/ wa;f!..:£'m norsure 
;f she knows I ex;s+... 
Same planet, different worlds 

JAY HOSLER 
• 

CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 
1 Oarsman 
6 Whittled 
12 Column part 
14 Was of help 
16 Excess supply 
17 -Beach, Fla. 
18 Uncommon 
19 Wise lawgiver 
21 Put in storage 
22 Turkish title 
23 Teacher's ­
24 Suffix: native of 
25 Tennis replays 
27 Bowling establish­~~~ent 
29 Garden worker 30 Garden apparatuses 32 African antelopes 34 Betty ­35 "Beverly Hill­
billies" actor 36 Winery employee 39 Wooded areas 42 French islands 43 Mr. Lapham 45 Dutch painter 
47 -loss for 
words 48 Welcome ­49 Ballplayer Traynor 50 Sheet music 
symbol 52 Made a choice 
54 Give up 55 Bride of Dionysus 57 Spread hearsay 59 Lured 60 Lincoln's concern 61 Get out, in 
baseball 62 English metropolis 
DOWN 
1 Does damage 
2 Do doctor's work 
3 Telegram 
4 Greek letter 
5 Joplin output 
6 Author of "In Cold Blood" 7 English river 8 L.A. athlete 9 Celebrities 
10 Delight 11 Signified 12 -Gables, Fla. 13 Fierce feline 15 Widows' takes 20 Camera part 
26  Cults  
27 28  Sly 1ooks -Tower  (Chicago)  

29 Severe 31 John or Jane 33 General Light-Horse 
Harry­35 Straw hats 36 Headdresses 37 Trans former 38 Along the ocean 39 "Tortilla -" 40 Like some shirts 41 Certain pitches 44 Obstruct 46 Like some hotels 51 Tightly drawn 52 Unique thing 53 Tedious 54 Inlet 56 Roman 601 58 Busch or West 
Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film: "Night of the Comet." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
9 p.m. Film: "Stagecoach." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 
... 
NOTRE DAME 
-· 
CAMPUS 
MENU 
Roast Turkey Irish Fried Flounder Eggs Foo Young 

Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, January 21, 1992 
Men's basketball to take on 11-4 Marquette tonight 
Irish conclude string of nine consecutive road games 
By MIKE SCRUDATO which is important for a team Bennett has had to play thus Sports Writer like theirs." far. The young Warrior team, No one has emerged as the 
After struggling through its which has no seniors, is leading clear-cut backup to Bennett. last two games, losses to West scorer junior sixth-man Ron Two candidates are freshmen Virginia and Virginia, the Notre Curry, a transfer from Arizona. Malik Russell and Lamarr Dame men's basketball team He comes into tonight's game Justice. Russell has seen a little looks to get back on track averaging 15.5 points and 6.4 time at the point, but has been tonight against Marquette in rebounds per game. inconsistent. Another drawback Milwaukee. The Marquette starting five is that MacLeod sees him more 
Irish coach John MacLeod consists of three sophomores as a forward than a guard. believes that the fatigue of eight and two freshmen. This lack of Justice is capable of playing ei­consecutive road games might experience could be a factor ther guard position, but has have caught up with his team. against Notre Dame, which only played six minutes this 
"Throughout last week, we starts four seniors. season. were missing something in "Marquette has a lot of young, practice," MacLeod commented. but talented players," MacLeod "It is very demanding to play "This week the fire seems to be said. "They are going to have a point guard because you have back, and we are playing on bright future." to distribute the ball, read de­our toes, which we did not do MacLeod also likes what he fenses and worry about the against Virginia." has seen from his lone fresh­other point guard doing the 
MacLeod hopes this will tran­man starter, Billy Taylor. same," MacLeod said. "It is a scend into tonight's game, the "Billy has made great big adjustment for a player last game on the road before progress, and he had a good coming out of high school to the Irish finally return home on day against Virginia," MacLeod make." Thursday against Missouri. commented. "His tremendous 
The Warriors, members of the speed will allow him to become The reason MacLeod has had newly-formed Great Midwest a two-position player for us in trouble finding a reserve point Conference, enter the contest the future." guard is the fact that the Irish with a record of 11-4; however, With two games in three have needed Bennett's leader­this mark was compiled against nights, MacLeod hopes to get ship almost every minute of ev­a light schedule. some more minutes from his ery game. He is hoping that his 
"I think Marquette's schedule bench, especially sophomores team will give him the opportu­is purposely easy," MacLeod Carl Cozen and Jon Ross. He is nity to rest Bennett and look at The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey said. "They have a young team, also concerned with the amount the freshmen at the point Freshman Billy Taylor, shown here against A.I.A., and the of the Notre and wins produce confidence, of time point guard Elmer tonight. Dame men's basketball team play Marquette in Milwaukee tonight. 
Karlan earns All-American honors
Don't bet on the Bills 
By JASON KELLY 
among the best Irish players
As the two participants Buffalo's -----­

Sports Writer this season, but among the best arrive in Minneapolis for Super defense of all time. 
Bowl XXVI. the line out of Las r a n k e d Janelle Karlan does not like Being only a sophomore,
Vegas has the Washington among the 
individual awards, but after a Karlan realizes that their is still Redskins a seven-point favorite worst in the record-setting season the a long way to go before she can over the Buffalo Bills in next NFL in sophomore setter earned sec­be put in that category, but she Sunday's extravaganza. y a r d s ond-team All-America honors is looking forward to theAs such, my roommate, allowed per for the Mideast region. challenges ahead. 
who's from the Buffalo area, game, it has For the second straight year, "I have a lot to improve on, sohas been advising me to do as risen to the Rene Ferran the El Toro, California native I'm really looking forward tohe has and "bet the house" on occasion in Out of Bounds posted some impressive num­the upcoming spring seasonthe Bills. the playoffs. 
bers, including the new single­and the next couple of years," He's sure that come Sunday The Bills 
Janelle Karlan 
season assist record of 1,451, she said. 
night, he will have made held Kansas City to 213 total which moves her into second with 127 kills and 100 blocks to Any improvement on this sea­enough money to pay yards, and only allowed seven place in the Irish record books go along with the assists, but son's performance would helpFebruary's rent, plus treat his points against Denver. The two with 2, 555 career assists. If she still doesn't feel she the Irish build on the founda­girlfriend to a night on the marquee names in the Buffalo she continues on her current deserves the post-season tion they laid this season andtown-although what he'll do defense are Bruce Smith and pace, she will easily eclipse accolades. continue their march into na­here in South Bend is anyone's Cornelius Bennett, praised by Taryn Collins' three-year record "It's an honor, but I don't re­tional prominence. 
guess. Cleveland coach Bill Belichick 
of 3,033. ally believe in individual Karlan does not anticipateHowever, decided to as "two players (who} are 
Karlan is no stranger to those awards," she explained. "They any changes in her game be­
compare the two teams first among a select few in the 
kind of numbers. In her rookie (my teammates} all deserve it tween now and next season,before I decided to make my league that can create havoc." 
.. 
campaign, she was second on as much as I do, because I only continued dedication that
pick on Super Bowl XXVI. The Redskins, on the other the team in digs with 226, and couldn't have done anything will help her improve.
OFFENSE-These may be the hand, are reminiscent of her 1,1 04 assists were the third without them." "I'm just going to keep work­two most potent offenses in the Miami's "No-Name" defense of best in Irish history. Those This season was truly a team ing hard and keep doing whatleague. Buffalo's quick-strike the mid-1970's. They recorded assist numbers included career effort . as the Irish put together I've been doing," she added. 
capability means it can never 50 sacks this season, and highs of 63 against Loyola and their best campaign since 1987. 
be counted out of any game. behind the resurgence of 
60 against Xavier. This season However, Karlan's individual That is good news for the
The Bills have the AFC's, linebacker Wilber Marshall 
she continued her torrid pace, numbers put her not only Notre Dame volleyball program. 
perhaps the NFL's, best and end Charles Mann, were running back in Thurman fourth in the league in total Thomas, and their passing yards allowed, third in rushing 
Green Wave holds off Dillon A2, 49-40
game, led by quarterback Jim yards allowed and first in Kelly and wide receivers James points allowed. Edge: 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Jeff Goddard scored seven for Irish football standoutLofton and Andre Reed, is Washington. 
Sports Writer Dillon in the losing effort. Demetrius Dubose, the team'soutstanding. SPECIAL TEAMS-The Bills 
The win places Fisher atop leading scorer last year, andWashington's offense has have one of the best special 
The Green Wave of Fisher the division with a 2-0 mark. arguably the best player in theimproved this year with the teams players in the NFL in held off a fourth quarter rally Dillon fell to 1-2 on the season. division, will pace a high scor­
maturation of Mark Rypien. Steve Tasker. But who can 
by the Dillon A2 squad to win There are five games on tap ing offensive attack. The GraceAlthough his numbers may not forget Scott Norwood pushing 49-40 in the ACC division of for Tuesday night, highlighted offense has been averagingoverwhelm you, his 102.5 that last-second field goal in men's interhall basketball by a meeting between unbeat­nearly 50 points a game, tops in 
quarterback rating ranks last year's Super Bowl wide 
Sunday night. ens in the Big 10 division. the division. 
among the league leaders. right? 
Fisher led comfortable the Grace meets St. Ed's in a In other Big 10 action Keenan With 1,000-yard rusher Meanwhile, Chip Lohmiller is majority of the game before the matchup which will be instru­(1-0} meets Flanner (0-2}.
Earnest Byner in the backfield one of the top placekickers in Big Red turned to a pressing mental in deciding the division The only game scheduled inand their outstanding receiving the league, and Brian Mitchell defense, which cut the lead to champion. the ACC for tonight is acorps of Ricky Sanders, Gary returned two punts back for three with less than five min­In last year's meeting be­matchup between CavanaughClark and Art Monk, known as touchdowns this season. If utes left to play. Dillon was un­tween the two teams, Grace and Carroll. Cavanaugh, last"The Posse." the Redskins Super Bowl XXVI comes down able to get any closer, as Fisher used a relentless press to pull season's runner up, will look tooutscored opponents by 263 to special teams, the Redskins eventually broke the press, out a win. St. Ed's has taken the skills of guards Petepoints this season. have the decided advantage. 
scoring three consecutive times precautions so that there won't Tulchinsky and Brad Leshnock,Both teams also sport Edge: Washington. 
in the games closing moments. be a repeat of last year. while Carroll relies on the lead­outstanding offensive COACHEs-Both teams have "In the end they took advan­"We have been working on ership of Pat Coleman. 
lines-the Redskins' Hogs gave top-notch coaches. Marv Levy tage of our press, scoring on the press in practice, and we In MET division action Dillonup a league-low nine sacks on has guided his team to a easy layups," said Dillon cap­feel like we're ready," said St. Al (0-1} meets Grace A2 (1-1).
the year. However, with second straight Super Bowl, tain Sean Ryan. "They also Ed's captain Tim Ryan. "We just and Sorin (1-1} faces winless -Thomas in the backfield, the while Joe Gibbs is in his fourth played extremely well defen­need to put it all together, and Alumni.
Bills rate a slight favorite in NFL championship game in the sively." we can win." In the Dillon/Grace matchup, this area. Edge: Buffalo. last 10 years. 
Paul Fulling led the Fisher The press is not the only
DEFENSE-Although see PREVIEW I page 17 see MEN'S IH I page 13
attack with 11 points. Forward weapon in the Grace arsenal. 






