

server 

VOL. XXV. NO. 66 MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Convoys cross capital; Aid reaches starving city 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­With armed guards riding shotgun, relief workers Sunday broke a month-old siege of Mo­gadishu's port and sent 100 trucks loaded with food roaring off the docks to the isolated northern half of the capital. 
More desperately needed food made it to the central city of Bardera. where three relief planes landed as aid workers were down to their last 2 5 sacks of grain. It was the first food to reach Bardera in nine days, but was not soon enough to save the 160 people who died of starvation there Saturday, said Ian MacLeod, a U.N. aid spokesman. 
But Somalia's anarchy still made it difficult for relief groups to get help to starving Somalis in inland areas. even as 1,800 U.S. Marines made fi­nal preparations to come ashore to begin an armed, U.N.-mandated mercy mission. 

Aid groups planned to parachute food to tens of thou­sands of people in villages around Bardera who are trapped by land mines sur­rounding the city. The interna­tional relief agency CARE said 
• U.S. options I page 5 
the airdrops, using C-130 cargo planes, would be an interim measure until the situation around Bardera calms. 
Relief agencies have cut back staff in Bardera and in nearby Baidoa, where gangs of militi­amen have reportedly gone on looting sprees and threatened more attacks. Five Somalis guarding a CARE convoy in Baidoa were killed last week in a looting attack, and the agency was down to three workers in the city on Sunday. 
see SOMALIA I page 4 

Geologists discover earthquak~ __fau_lt~ Jf'l__ Q_o~ntown _L.J\. Committee 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Two previously unknown earthquake faults have been discovered in downtown Los Angeles, passing beneath skyscrapers, along the Holly­wood Freeway and near Dodger Stadium, geologists said Sunday. 
If the faults are active, they could produce quakes measur­ing 5.5 to 6.5 on the Richter scale. 
That would "be very damag­ing because they are so close to major population centers," said geologist Jim Dolan of the Cali­fornia Institute of Technology in Pasadena. 
Of more concern is the possi­bility that the newly discovered Echo Park and MacArthur Park faults may be connected to and rupture at the same time as the deeper and more dangerous Elysian Park fault, which was discovered five years ago, Dolan said. 
Scientists believe the Elysian Park fault could produce a quake measuring 7 to 7. 5 or more right under downtown Los Angeles. Dolan said exis­tence of the shallower faults suggests the deeper fault is ac­tive. 
"If you find a live flea on top of a dog, it's likely that dog is alive too," said Caltech geology professor Kerry Sieh, who dis­covered the new faults with 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Singing in the holiday season 
Shenanigans, NO's musical ensemble, performs the song "One" from "A Chorus Line" during their Christmas Concert. The concert was perfromed last night at Washington Hall. 
Dolan and San Diego State Uni-~arthquake faults discovered in Los Angel~ seeks better. 
~~~~~~~~-geologist Thomas· Geologist discovered two previously unknown earthquake faults in-l. 
Government studies have said 

downtown Los Angeles.
that even a magnitude-6.5 quake centered under Los An­geles could be far more deadly and damaging than a quake 
..······"'iiiiiiiiiii!.~~.~~,.,~~~ measuring. 7.5 to 8:3 on the 
::.::~:~;i·--..·~:~··~lvd. more notonous but dtstant San 1=-~yw~-~-1.!-+~=11-­Andreas fault. The San Andreas~------~!--~+~ is about 35 miles from downtown. 
A decade-old federal study said such a San Andreas quake, 
Wilshire Blvd.
dubbed the "Big One" in local r-===""==-4=~~~. 
parlance, could kill up to 14,000 people, although that estimate is now considered high. 
Dolan was scheduled to dis­cuss the newly found faults Monday during the American Geophysical Union's fall meet­ing in San Francisco. 
Other scientists said the dis-. covery only slightly aggravates 
10.~====-=~==~4~ 
/ 

c 
0 

3 miles 
E 

~~~­
~ 

3km 
l·a·.t.··•o:/t·:··n·
..• .. )~Si··,·····?k·················'''.;,,...,.
• ·. Mt''"*@i 
:::-:;w~r 
NEV.
CALIF. 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
Women's Res 
ICOnUlnit1tee has set its s.JL.Ilnt~ e Dame a betterl 
both men and wo1ilet1.1 IMco1rdtnQ' to chairperson 

Los Angeles' already high ~...-_,____.....,lb_ _...II..JL....u.....----------~:llli;O;j;,.~----"~ua.Luu 
quake risk. 
"There are so many faults throughout the L.A. area that adding two more doesn't really significantly heighten the haz­ard," said Jim Mori, scientist in charge of the U.S. Geological Survey's Pasadena office. 
"Every year we find new faults we didn't know existed," said Richard Andrews, director of the state Office of Emergency Services. He said the new faults 
reinforce "the fact that Cali­said. fornia is earthquake country." The 8-mile-long Echo Park 
The MacArthur Park fault is fault starts just south of Cali­at least 4 miles long. It passes fornia State University, Los An­directly under Los Angeles' geles, and stretches northwest downtown high-rise district, to just south of Dodger Stadium. following Wilshire Boulevard Then it cuts through the north northwest along MacArthur end of downtown near Park and then continuing to Chinatown before continuing Hollywood, where it probably 
see FAULTS I page 4 

joins the Hollywood fault, Dolan 


Mosque destruction causes security alert in India 
AYODHYA, India (AP} ­Hindu fundamentalists used pickaxes and crowbars Sunday to raze a 430-year-old mosque they say was built on the site where a main Hindu deity was born. The government declared the nation under its highest security alert and braced for a Muslim backlash. 
At least four Hindu militants were killed and 100 others in­jured by falling debris as the 16th century Babri Masjid, or Mosque of Babar, was demol­ished in less than six hours by thousands of frenzied Hindus. 
Prime Minister Narasimha Rao said the destruction of the three-story mosque had pushed the country into "a grave crisis." He appealed for peace 

in a nationwide television speech. 
About 1,000 people were killed in Hindu-Muslim riots that broke out in northern India in 1990 after Hindu extremists stormed the mosque in the longstanding religious dispute. That crisis brought down the government. 
In New Delhi, 20 prominent Muslim leaders met with Presi­dent Shankar Dayal Sharma on Sunday and expressed "deep anguish and pain." 
In a rare statement on reli­gious issues, the president condemned the destruction. 
"Those who have harmed (the mosque} have caused injury to the centuries-old ethos of India," he said. They have "violated the rule of law, the tradition of India of mutual re­spect for all religions." 
In Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, the 50-nation Organization of the Islamic Conference accused the Indian government of allowing Hindu extremists to demolish the mosque and demanded it punish the culprits. 
"The entire Islamic world was shocked by the heinous and premeditated crime against an Islamic symbol of value not to Muslims in India alone but to Muslims everywhere," said Hamid al-Gabid, secretary­general of the organization, which represents the world's 1 billion Muslims. 
More than 300,000 Hindus had made the pilgrimage to 
Ayodhya, which normally has 41 ,000 residents, to destroy the mosque and build a colossal temple to Rama. 
On Sunday, just before the hour decreed by astrologers as auspicious for the work to be­gin, dozens of people climbed onto a platform near the mosque to dance and chant slogans. 
Pilgrims had set up road­blocks of concrete slabs. furni­ture and wooden logs to pre­vent 30 busloads of federal riot police from coming in. 
Outnumbered police at the site retreated to a nearby police station and watched as the Hindus, dressed in the orange 
see ALERT I page 4 
. 
O'Donnell said most offices have been coopt}ra­with their efforts, despite 
me misunderstandings re­
ting from communications IDT()bJetms between the commit­and University officials. 
'"It took the office of Stttrtentl A~tivH:i~ longer than I to approve our circulating 
on campus," 0 DonnjeJll ...It just turned out needed more ma:ti.o:nl what we were about." The Graduate Student uUJun• also played an active initiating some of lco:IDilnitlree's projects. ..Last year's chairperso · 
see RELAOON I page 

page 2 Monday, December 7, 1992
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Wake up and hear the •mUSIC Apathy is feasting on the Notre Dame student body again. That beast, which occasionally devours parts of the undergraduate community, has again Rolando debeen awakened. This time, though, the apathy Aguiar is neither political nor Music Critic intellectual. Notre Dame students have failed at a level closer to their base emotions. No, I will not proceed to exhort students to attend basketball games. or to show their support for interhall water polo. The talent on this campus is not only found on playing fields, but also on stages; behind microphones, guitars and drum kits. Notre Dame is the home of a healthy music scene, which, if properly nurtured, could produce acts worthy of billion-dollar recording deals. But the lack of support for student musicians threatens the very existence of their groups. Bands like Victoria's Real Secret, XYZ Affair and Brian, Colin and Vince have gained campus­wide followings through shows in South Bend as well as appearances on campus. A free show Friday by Chisel and Severinsen drew a crowd of over a hundred to Dalloway's Coffeehouse at Saint Mary's. An escape from the cold as well as the hopeless drone of Steve Miller at parties and dorm dances on campus drew a respectably-sized group to that nifty little building. But while 100 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students reveled in the noise produced by those two bands, some 10,000 others were still being eaten by apathy. They stayed home on Saturday night, and watched Roseanne Arnold on Saturday Night Live. Maybe they became studious and hit the library. Or perhaps they went to an SYR or a party at that guy's room. But they missed out on a chance to get loaded on endorphins; to feel the energy created by three men, a guitar, a bass and a set of drums. They had a chance to get up and see something new and exciting; instead they sat back and vegetated. The only cure for apathy is action. So some people in the musical community at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have taken some of the action necessary to elevate their music scene. Maybe the apathy will be cured next semester, when the Student Union Board releases its sampler of campus bands. SUB has eliminated the fluff of covers, selecting 16 of the best musical acts at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to fill out the compact disc. And perhaps the trend started by some workers at Dalloway's, to bring campus bands to that venue, will continue. The coffeehouse offers an intimate atmosphere unlike any other in the area. Our music scene could be something very special. The acts playing on our campuses right now are more talented than most which are signed to major-label contracts. But without action to support them, apathy will continue to devour our musical future. The views expressed are the author·s and not necessarily those of the Obsever.  
Today's Staff: News: Viewpoint: Frank Rivera Honora Buckley Sarah Doran Accent: Sports: Susan Marx George Lab Tech: Dohrmann Jake Peters Production: Systems: Melissa Cusack L.L. Bean Cynthia Ehrhardt Jason Williams The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  




·.. . : ·. 
... FORECAST 
Cloudy today with flurries and a high in the low to mid 30's. Low tonight in low 20's. High Tuesday around 35. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 23 21 Atlanta 34 30 Bogota 55 46 Cairo 72 55 Chicago 29 18 Cleveland 28 16 Dallas 55 36 Detroit 30 19 Indianapolis 41 18 Jerusalem 57 39 London 48 37 Los Angeles 60 52 Madrid 54 45 Minneapolis 35 28 

FRONTS: Moscow 37 36 Nashville 35 24 New York 37 26 Paris 46 32 COLD WARM STATIONARY Philadelphia 38 25 Rome 61 52 Pressure Seattle 47 37 South Bend 27 12H L ~{) Tokyo 50 39 Washington, D.C. 41 26
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
,·: 


: •' 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INTERNATIONAL 
Oil sgm rna* be worst ever 
MlAORON , Spam -Rough seas Sunday thwarted divers trying to check the submerged bow of a leaking oil tanker, which has fouled coastline and threatened marine life with millions of gallons of spilled crude oil. The Greek tanker Aegean Sea, which was loaded with nearly 24 million gallons of oil, ran aground early Thursday and split apart. Environmentalists fear the spill may exceed the 11 million gallons dumped off the coast of Alaska in 1989 by the tanker Exxon Valdez. Volunteers slogged through the crags and inlets of the Galician coast near La Coruna, washing oil-soaked sea birds with special detergent. Oil up to 4 inches thick coated the normally white sandy beaches around this northeastern city of 250,000 people. 
NATIONAL 

uh~e'~~~shjps awarded 
OF INTEREST 
two. Rhodes scholarships were established at the turn of the century by the estate of Cecil Rhodes, a British philanthropist and colonialist. Winners also are chosen from other countries. Qualities considered in the selection process include academic excellence, integrity. leadership ability and athletic prowess. 
Fir students killed ;n tire 
•ARBONDALE, Ill. -A fire at an off-campus apartment building early Sunday killed five Southern Illinois University students and sent seven others to hospitals, officials said. All of the victims were foreign students living at the Pyramid Apartment complex, said Dr. Jerry Thurman, Jackson County coroner. Several students jumped from upper story windows to escape the flames and smoke that choked the three-story structure just before 1:30 a.m. Thurman said all of the dead -two men and three women, all in their early 20s -died from smoke inhalation. In addition to the seven people hospitalized, six were treated for injuries without being admitted. 
CAMPUS 
SUB sRonsorjng clotbjng drjye 
• NOT E DAME-The Notre Dame Student Union Board (SUB) is sponsoring a used clothing drive for Goodwill. Collection boxes can be found in all residence halls and in LaFortune Student Center. SUB will be col­lecting clothes through Friday. For further information on the clothing drive, contact Yolanda Lawler at 283­4958. 

• Habitat for Humanity is sponsoring guest lecturer Jay Todd from Habitat for Humanity International. He will address the issue of homelessness and explain how Habitat is helping to solve this problem tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the esc auditorium. 
• Highly qualified students interested in graduate studies in the College of Arts and Letters can apply for managing editor or volunteer to be a staff writer for the magazine Humanitas. If interested contact Professor Christopher Fox at 239-7226. 
• 
New Honor Code Hotline is now open for ques­tions to be answered and/or violations to be reported anonymously. Call Kami Benson at 283-4704 or Kevin Schroder at 283-1750. 

• 
Residence Halls will close Saturday, May 8. 1992 at 5 p.m. and will open for the Fall Sunday August 29. 1992 at noon. 



MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
FRIDAY'S TRADING December 4 
• 
In 1787: Delaware became the first state to ratify the Con­stitution. 

• 
In 1941: Japanese planes attacked the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor. 

• 
In 1965: Pope Paul VI and Orthodox Patriarch Athenagoras I simultaneously lifted the mutual excommunications that had led to the split of the two churches in 1054. 

• 
In 1986: Student protests in Paris sparked by proposed educational reforms continued to escalate as dozens of people clashed with police in the Latin Quarter. 

• 
In 1987: Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev set foot on American soil for the first time, arriving for a Washington summit with President Ronald Reagan. 



VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 227,407.248 +1.01 to 237.77 

S&P COMPOSITE +2.15 to 432.06 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +12.15 to 3,288.68 
GOLD +S0.20 to $335.70 oz 
SILVER +SO.OOO to $3.745 oz 





Monday, December 7, 1992 
Russian troops help protect Tajik capital against Communists 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian troops and tanks helped pro­Muslim volunteers defended the capital of Tajikistan from attack by Communist-backed forces Sunday, Russian media reported. 
Russia's 201st Motorized Rifle Division, based in Dushanbe, rushed armor to the city's out­skirts to rebuff the attack from the Communist stronghold of Gissar, about 15 miles to the west, the Interfax news agency said. 
Because of the fighting and poor telephone lines, no casu­alty reports or details of the battle were immediately avail­able. 
A spokesman for the 3,000­

May 19 ... June 18 ravel in Ireland, Scotland, and France 
Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING December 9 
6: lSp.m. NO Library: Faculty Staff Lounge Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284~4460 or 272~3726 
{jeatein~
adeanfuart 
0 ort[ 

Advent Penance Service Wednesday, December 9, 1992 
lO:OOpm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Fr. Rob Moss, C.S.C., Presider 
Opportunity for individual confession following the service. 
man Russian division, Col. Ana­toly Ivlev, told Tajik television that the soldiers would continue to protect the city of 800,000. 
Tajikistan's civil war pits Mus­lim and democratic groups against an alliance of Kulyab tribesmen, ethnic Uzbeks and old-style Communists led by former parliament speaker Sa­farali Kendzhayev. 
Fighting has wracked the former Soviet Central Asian re­public of 5.1 million for months, costing undreds of lives and creating a flood of refugees. 
A pro-Communist alliance regained power last month, when it toppled acting Presi­dent Akbarshah lskandarov. 


June 13 ... July 12 Travel in France, Germany, and Switzerland 
The Observer page 3 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

A room with a view 
A chilly winter afternoon is the scene when overlooking the pond from Saint Mary's Haggar College Center. 
Bosnians defend Sarajevo's airport road 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Close-quarter combat raged Sunday as gov­ernment troops tried to block Serb forces from cutting off the road to the airport. the lifeline for relief supplies to the be­sieged city. 
The threat facing Sarajevo's 300,000 residents -of being cut off from food and other re­lief supplies -has led to star­vation in others parts of Bosnia. 
At least 70 people, most of them children, starved to death in a region east of Sarajevo that 
Club Column 
DECEMBER 7,1992 
1) The German Club has a a Gluhwein get together planned. Pleas come on Thursday, December 10 from 6-9 p.m. at 507 Carnation Gardens. Meet at the Library Circle at 6 p.m. if you need a ride. Questions, call Tahira Aslam at 272-6264. 
2) Campus Bible Fellowship meets Tuesday, 7 p.m. in Room 303 Haggar College at Saint Mary's College. 3)The Science-Business Club is having a Pizza Party Thursday, December 1Oth at 6 p.m. in Farley Hall. Please remember your dues-­$2. R.S.V.P. at 283-4253. 
4) The Society of Professional Journalists will be having a meeting on Wednesday, December 9 at 7:30p.m. in the Foster Room of Lafortune. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday, 
has been mostly overrun by Serbs, said Bego Uvalic, the mayor of Serb-occupied Vlasenica, about 40 miles northeast of Sarajevo. 
He said 40,000 people who have fled to Cerska, about 12 miles to the northeast, and have been reduced to eating road salt mixed with sand. Children were eating livestock feed, Uvalic said told The Asso­ciated Press. 
He made the comments in Zagreb, Croatia, after slipping through Serb lines. A medic in 
$2.99 
AT DINNER IN THE 
OAK ROOM 
.....-ADDED BONUS DINE BETWEEN 4:00 -5:00 P.M. AND RECEM ACOMPUMENTARY SMAJ_l SOFT DRINK OR COFFEE 
Cerska -the only community 
in the region not held by Serbs 
-is helping the sick and 
wounded and "amputates legs 
and arms with razor blades or 
a metal-cutting saw," Uvalic 
said. "People are dying of in­
fections and disease." 
Meanwhile, on the western outskirts of Sarajevo, Serb fighters tried to expand their hold on Otes, the suburb they captured Saturday in their biggest offensive in the Sara­jevo area in the 8-month-old war. 
Bosnian defenders held out on the eastern fringe of Otes, trying to prevent Serbs from advancing and possibly block­ing the airport road. 
"The cutting of the airport road, by whatever means, is something we have to worry about," said Jeremy Brade, a European Community repre­sentative with the U.N. relief operation. 
Brade said a decision was ex­pected Monday on whether to prolong the suspension of the humanitarian airlift into Sara­jevo, halted Tuesday when planes were shot at. 
Forty percent of the food des­tined for Sarajevo was being brought in by plane. 


------~--~--------------------------------------~-------~------------------------­
page 4 The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 
Faults 
continued from page 1 

directly under the Hollywood Freeway past Echo Park, he said. 
Scientists discovered the 
Alert 
continued from page 1 

colors of the fundamentalists, completed their task unhin­dered. 
faults by examining 70-year-old topographic maps that show fault-caused landforms long ago obliterated by construction. Field studies identified em­bankments and distorted stream channels that confirmed existence of the faults. 
The Elysian Park fault was 
Hundreds of people poured into the building and used grappling hooks to climb to the mosque's roof. Wielding pick­axes and crowbars, they razed the mosque in defiance of a Supreme Court order and their own leaders' instructions. 
discovered after a small part of it produced a magnitude-S. 9 earthquake and aftershocks that killed eight people and in­jured more than 200 in 1987. Dolan said it extends at least 20 miles from Whittier west­northwest through downtown Los Angeles, Hollywood and Beverly Hills. 
A huge pile of stone, mortar and bricks was all that re­mained. The Hindus used 30­foot-long wooden poles to push the rubble down a hill. 
"Now the Muslims can get out of India," militants shouted. 
Relation 
continued from page 1 
"Last year's chairperson spoke with Nathan Hatch (dean of the graduate school) and he was really helpful in setting things up," O'Donnell said. "We thought we'd need a lot of fac­ulty support, but he showed us that it had to be a student effort if we wanted it to be success­ful." 
Despite the Women's Re­source Committee being di­rectly tied to the Graduate Stu­dent Union, O'Donnell stressed the importance of undergradu­ate student involvement with the committee's activities. 
"At first we we're just gradu­ate students, but now we've realized the importance of get­ting undergrads involved also," she said. 
The Women's Concerns Committee, Women United for Peace and Justice, Feminist Fo­rum and Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination are all work­ing with the Women's Resource Committee to make the Women's Resource Center a reality. 
Somalia 
continued from page 1 

Some 28,150 soldiers from the United States and other na­tions are expected to participate in the operation to restore order and guard food shipments. The first detachment of the more than 2,000 French soldiers earm·arked for the force will be ready to go Monday, Defense Minister Pierre Joxe said in 
SAUDI ARABIA 

200 miles 
~ 
200km 
AP 

Get Your Rallpasscs For 1993 at 1991 Prices! 
•Ell'Iii Flaipass 5wAn 15 ~ Stao• •Youth Ruipms15wfn2 mon~s $410* •Youth 1 month pas $470* 
"Rata g:t'Ed.J~ to rise 115 much 115 20% on .l«l1,1993. ~Issued In 1992 are good for tiM lfvalld8ttdwlthln sb< montr5 from issue date. ' 
Council Travel 
1153 N. De.sbcm St, Shd A~ Chica90,1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call for a Fr~Z~Z copy of The Stud~nt Travels Magazln~Z! 

Paris. Egypt, Turkey and workers reopened the port and Mauritania also announced got food from one end of the 
Call 

they will send troops. divided city to the other un-Somalia has descended into scathed for the first time in chaos since rebels drove dicta-more than a month. 
X4054 

tor Mohamed Barre from Arranging the convoys took power nearly two years ago. two days of negotiations be­
and Wish

Central authority collapsed, tween the two rival clan and drought and warfare have militias that control halves of ravaged the nation. the city, but their success raised 
Jennifer 

About 300,000 Somalis have hopes that more of the food died this year from starvation, sitting in warehouses would 
Mausa

disease and the fighting. An soon reach the hungry. additional 250,000 could die by "What's really significant is the end of the year without that this is the first convoy 
Happy

help. Some 2 million people, or we've been able to move out of one-third of the population, are the port since Nov. 12, and the 
21st 

at risk of starvation. first into north Mogadishu since Aid agencies estimate at least late Octoer," said Rick Grant, a half the food donated to Soma-spokesman for CARE, which 
Birthday!

lia so far has been stolen. handles most U.N. food In Mogadishu Sunday, relief shipments in Somalia . 
• ~ SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY • ~ 
: ANNOUNCES THE SUCCESS OF THE LAUNDRY CONTRACT : 
•
• 
• 
•
• 

HERE IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY TO SIGN A SPRING CONTRACT•••• • WORTH $92.00 IN ANY OR ALL OF THESE FINE SERVICES! •• ••••••• 
•DRY CLEANING•EXPRESS LAUNDRY • • FOR THOSE SPECIAL ITEMS •
•

•TAILORING ••••• • SEAMSTRESS AT BUNDLE DIST. CENTER ••• : •SUMMER STORAGE : : NO NEED TO DRAG WINTER GARMENTS HOME : 
: • BUNDLE SERVICE : : DORM PICK UP •N.D. SHEET EXCHANGE *FREE* : • THROUGH YOUR BUNDLE • 
: SIMPLY COMPLETE THE FORM BELOW AND RETURN IT TO THE : : BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER (LOCATED ON CAMPUS) : 
.~-------------------------------------------------··•
•

• •• •• SS# NAME 
• 
(please print) 
LAUNDRY I.D. NUMBER_____(all students have assigned #'s) 
• 

I accept a '93 Spring Laundry Contract and I agree to have $75.00 charged to my student account for • the spring semester. 
SIGNATURE ••
••• • -----------------------------------•
•• •• SS# •• • 
••• ---------------------------------------------­• DATE • 
• NO OF BAGS @ 2.50 EACH __________
• 
•

• PLEASE NOTE AU CONTRACTS OR CANCEUATIONS MUST BE SUBMIITED BY JAN. 30, 1993 





page 5
Monday, December 7, 1992 The Observer 
Cheney: Options open when dealing with Somali warlords 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. Somalia will be to "restore our own forces, to the relief I troops may round up and dis­some semblance of order" and workers, and we will, in fact, Breakdown of U.S. forces to Somalia arm the warring Somali gun­that means dealing with the have to deal with some of those men who block the delivery of guns, mortars, artillery and elements in order to achieve I U.S. Central Command aid to the starving, Defense other weaponry amassed by the our objective," Cheney said. 
1 

Headquarters for Operation Restore Hope. Operates Secretary Dick Cheney said nation's warlords. Marine Commandant Carl I 
out of Tampa, Fla.; headed by Gen. Joseph Hoar. 
Sunday, but he insisted Ameri­"We may well want to go in Mundy echoed Cheney's com­cans will not get bogged down and round up troops or ments, saying he hoped U.S. I 
Joint Task Force

in a guerrilla war. weapons. We might want to troops encounter ..a peaceful Cheney, in an appearance on offer a bounty" so people turn disarmament," but will be \ 
Headquarters for field operations in Somalia. 

NBC's "Meet the Press," said the in their guns, Cheney said. ready to meet any challenge if 
1 
Led by Lt. Gen. Robert Johnston. 
1

order of business for "We will be concerned about they don't. 
30,000 troops being sent to any potential military threat to "We are prepared to take whatever measures we have to to achieve disarmament," the four-star general said in an ap­pearance on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." 

Marines Air Force Army Navy
The Marine general said he 
1 

believed U.S. forces in the re-16,000 troops 600 troops to 1 0,000 troops 1 ,550 troops gion will begin moving into mostly from the support C-130 from the 1Oth on support Somalia "in about two days." 1 1st Marine tranport jets Mountain ships off 
The troops will be allowed to : Expeditionary Force, and tactical Division, Somalian return fire if fired upon, and i Camp Pendleton, Calif. aircraft Ft. Drum, N.Y. coast
Study Public Policy and Management in Washington! 
also will be allowed to shoot 1....-------------------------­
first should someone even ap-AP/Ed De Gasero +One of the leading Public Administration programs in the country 
pear to be making threatening nation. He refused to specify any date moves, Mundy said. "If you're looking for the for a U.S. departure, but said,
+Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree 
They may "need to fire be­United States to stay until all cause ... someone's pointing a Somalia's problems are solved "the idea of leaving a large U.S. 
+ Spe::ializations in Public Policy and Intergovernmental Management 
weapon at you, a machine gun -it's not going to happen," combat force for a long time in or a tank (is) coming towards Cheney said. Somalia is not a valid one." 
+Small, individualized classes you or something, and they'll be He said U.S. officials hoped to National security adviser +Scholarships available 
able to engage," the general begin turning some areas of Brent Scowcroft, interviewed on 
said. Somalia over to U.N. peace­CBS-TV's "Face The Nation," +Faculty advisors available 
keepers by the end of next said the U.S. role in the Neither Cheney nor Mundy month. operation "is strictly limited" +Internships available 
said they viewed the U.S. role Queried about the possibility and hopefully will prepare a as "rounding up every AK-47 in that U.S. forces might end up in groundwork of peace so Soma­Somalia," nor remaining until a lengthy guerrilla conflict, Ch­lia can rebuild a government 
structure.

peace returns to the devastated eney responded, "I think that's dead wrong."
For more information, please contact: Nancy Gilmore, Registrar University of Southern California 
Parties agree on tougher asylum rules 
School of Public Administration Washington Public Affairs Center 
BONN, Germany (AP)-Bow­foreigners that have claimed at said Germany's constitution
512 Tenth St., NW ing to anti-foreigner sentiment, least 16 lives and raised would continue to guarantee
Washington, D.C. 20004 (202) 638-4949 
the nation's main political par­concern of a spread of Nazi­the right of anyone to apply for FAX: (202) 347-3410 
ties agreed Sunday to seek style ideology. political asylum. stricter asylum rules for Police have vowed to escalate If approved by lawmakers, refugees entering Germany. their crackdown of neo-Nazi the proposed changes would be 
Politicians hope tightening the and other hate groups, but written into the constitution. 

.. postwar asylum laws -among right-wing leaders have threat­The United States has imposed the· world's most liberal -will ened to retaliate with even a similar policy for Haitian help curb a wave of attacks on more violence. refugees.



-----Clip Ibis Ad ,r 
I 

I 
I • 
I 
I Complete survey and return for aFREE Panama City Beach, Florida t-shirt.* I 
I 
Have you visited Please number in order of I Panama City Beach, Florida imponance in choosing a II before? Yes No Spring Break vacation destination: 
I 

Where did you spend 0-most imp. 10-least imp.)
Spring Break last year? 
I

Accommodations Price City Distance from Campus n­
-
a

en Night Life
:a -::::r
-a. State Number of ATM's .,. ­
:Ill

--_ Safety a.
u 
Schedule of Activities I _ Shuttle Transportation I 
I n c·t 8 h-I
Temperature
I ranama I y eac -~;~:~_sponsA-ctiviti_es I 
I F L 0'R I D A I 
Call for a FREE Visitors Guide
I I
1-800-PCBeach 
I I
NameI last First M Class _Fresh _ Soph _junior _ Senior I University ___________ T-shin Size_ Large_ X-Large _XX-Large 
I Return ad to Panama City Beach Convention and Visitors Bureau PO Box 9473 Panama City Beach, FL 32417. I 1 •r-shirt can be picked up at the Panama City Beach Visitors Information Center during your Spring Break! 1 
.._ -----CliP lhls Ad -----..1 
-------·------­
Under the proposal reached between Chancellor Helmut Political leaders fear a voter Kohl's three-party coalition and backlash in 1994 parliamentary the opposition Social elections if the asylum laws are Democrats, immigration offi­not tightened. cials would decide whether refugees entered Germany for Germany is reeling from a political or economic reasons. record refugee influx -about Those deemed economic 500,000 more are expected be­refugees would be sent back to fore the end of the year -that the country they arrived from. is straining social welfare funds 
But Wolfgang Schaeuble, and increasing the anti-for­parliamentary chairman of eigner fervor, especially in less­Kohl's Christian Democrats, prosperous eastern Germany. 
. . · . , Prep· Plus"~. ·...· ·..For die MCAT:. . The Best 
' 

Medical Insurance 
. . 
,• . 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'11 score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your BestrM guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied wtth your MCAT score, we'll let you repeat the entire course ...at no charge' 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study mater.als. unlimited review in our TEST -N-TAPE11 labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers. and produced more top MCAT scores. than everyone else combined! 
l SV\NLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 

REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today! 

page 6 The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 

Hundreds killed, wounded in fighting in Afghanistan 
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP}-dren streamed from their Rockets and artillery shells homes as rockets streaked exploded across the capital overhead. Huge pillars of Sunday in a new round or black smoke towered over the combat between Iranian-city~ backed Shiite Muslim ;.>.The main eombatants were guerrillas and troopsloyal to n'tbe Shute faction Hezb..e*Wa­the·-interim Islamic hadaiand-•Defesne Minister government. ____ -______ .. _ '"r\hm¢d ShabMasood's pre •.. 
Doctors said· at least 20 ta.,rntuantly ethnic Tajik people died, but that did not# group~ Sho()ra-e-Nazar,> Each include many victitns who blamed the other for starting were buried immediately by the tigbting,c Wbich beganwith relatives. At least 360 people.~ ... skirmis~es outside the city on mostly civilians. were"'''.Friday,< wounded, doctors said. -.;: .lfezb•e• Wahadat represents 
The battle shattered a 3~{\ tlie Hazaras. the minority Shi­month-old peace in a city that_ )tes coq<;entrated_in the most­bas been wracked by. fighting ''·j~-ill}poy~nshed and neglected {lmong the diverse Musn~;:·st~gioJts -... ___ of _ . _central ·• "groups,that drove the ~OJlll9p::).;i~~-hal}ista~. Although_ a nists from power in late Aprn ;;~s;m¢~nsqs has not been dolle in-­after 14 years of war. , .·. _ yf,far~~ the Hazaras a.re At least one rocket slammed · believed to comprise about 10 into the main building or -··· •.•--_ -._. ofAfghanlstan•s popuo.
Foreign Ministry · · · · · -;,,, i tow 
'and another exJPlo,de1d i'=~~~lii~ii~~~t~~~£~:~1:~e~
L,,,_.____,~ourtv:a.rd. of the prime Jl 

ATTENTION ALL BOYS WITH BOOTS: 
This Cowgirl Turns 21 Today! 
Happy B--Day Jennifer 
Love, jenny 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jeanne Blasi. Contact The Observer at 239-5303 for more information. 
If You Want to Be 
a Lawyer, ·_ 
StartPn tieing Now. 
One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat question. 
Survivors mark Pearl Harbor anniversary 
(AP) -The passage of 51 years hasn't dimmed Frederick Bowen's recollection of what happened at Pearl Harbor. 
Bowen, of Parker, Colo., was the only one on duty in his U.S. Army Air Corps unit stationed at Wheeler Field in Hawaii when he heard planes roar past. 
"I thought it was the Navy buzzing us," Bowen said. "They were always doing that. We'd buzz them and they'd buzz us back." 
On Monday, Bowen will join more than 700 others at a din­ner in Little Rock, Ark., spon­sored by the Pearl Harbor Sur­vivors Association. 
The banquet commemorates the 51st anniversary of the Japanese attack on the U.S. naval station at Pearl Harbor, an event that plunged the United States into World War II. 
This year's ceremonies are more low-key than the week­long 50th anniversary com­memoration held last year at Pearl Harbor that included President Bush. 
In Hawaii, Retired Vice Adm. Samuel Gravely, the Navy's first black admiral, is to speak at a ceremony that will focus on the role that minorities played in the U.S. military at the time of the attack. 
"We've never examined the Pearl Harbor attack through the eyes of ethnic minorities ­and each one has a different story to tell," said Blanca Stransky, spokeswoman for the National Park Service that runs the USS Arizona Memorial. 
The attack, which came with­out warning or a declaration of war, killed 2,403 Americans and wounded 1, 178. 
Samuel Bishop, a mess atten­dant trained to set fuses on the USS Bagley, was one of the few blacks on deck during the at­tack, Stransky said. His ship was credited with shooting down one of the Japanese planes, she said. 
Gravely, 70, wasn't at Pearl Harbor. He signed on with the Navy the following September, at age 20. In 1962 he became the first black to command a Navy ship, the USS Falgout. 


SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE UNIQUE NOTR-E DAME DESIGNS THE GOLF SHOP AT NOTRE DAME ~.......... DECEMBER 9J 10, 11 FROM 9:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. lN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL PRICES REDUCED ON CLOSE·OUT MERCHANDISE BRING YOUR ID CARD FOR AN ADDITIONAL 10% OFF (3 SALE DAYS ONLY!)  

t:Jpen Spm -11pm 
In the base~~11en·t 1 days a week of l~l.ft"lrtJJne 

Monday, December 7, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Slain girl's mother recalls tragedy 
NASA cancels shuttle's debris tracking experiment 

··t:&-::~::,k:~/:-L~;j~$i~~·tiWV¥i:-.... ·.-.:::~:: 
= 

SPACE CENTER. Houston military officials deeitl~ ·!() try (AP) -NASA has serubbed a a new tack. '1 major space debris tracking Bad weather at laser-send· experiment aboard the shuttle ing stations ruined the ex· · Discovery bec~use of a dead periment Saturday'fur the battery. But the astronauts third day in a row, and the bad better luck Sunday with a laser receiver mounted on one laser experiment ,.,,,,, . of Di~~overy's wind9~s 
Flight controlUifs decided ~Qtten nothing mori than 
Saturday to give up on trying tillY burst of what may have to release six metal balls due been data. to a dead battery in the pay· load bay canister from which the spheres were supposed to 
· ·have been ejected. _·. .. _. , " · ; }~.The best thing ~ot'do is' to ·,•. _, _.• _itquits at tbi$2point with 
•··-._. ·. experiment al,ld go ahead and bring it bo:lne"'i:' flight 
hrliil"o.r•t.nP Milt ·.said. ;,···· .·.. . w~reif.}, 
.. .., ......,,.. .. ,,.•,..u., hal 

···Let The Observer help yo ·· 
= 

send a Christmas wish to your friends. . . A Christmas ad this size · 
·· · costs only $20. .. 
Visit The Observer, 3'd floor LaFortune ,for more details. 
eadline for our Christmas issue·• Monday, Dec. 7, 1:00 p.m. 
l.Ji?coming Events ___ 


INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10 
Lecture 
SERGEI ROGOV Deputy Director, Institute of the USA and Canada Studies Russian Academy 
of Sciences 
"THE COLLAPSE OF THE 
USSR AND THE FUTURE OF 
STRATEGIC STABILITY" 
4:00 p.m. -Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Ill ~~!S~o~J;!~A~~ 
NEW ALBANY, Ind. -The mother of a girl who was bru­tally tortured and murdered wants events leading up to the slaying to be told so other par­ents will realize it can happen to their children. 
"They don't want to believe that this could happen to their child, or that their child could ever be subjected to this," said Jacqueline Vaught, whose 12­year-old daughter, Shanda Sharer, was tortured and set on fire Jan. 12. "Well I'm here to tell you, as a mother who has had her child murdered, bru­tally murdered by girls, it did happen, and it could happen again to your child." 
Vaught, in a recent interview with the Courier Journal and Times of Louisville, said she did not want the details of her daughter's death to be toned down. 
"I want people to know how my daughter was tortured from midnight till 9 the next morn­ing. How she was conscious the whole time they beat her and cut her and ... sodomized her with a tire iron. How afraid she must have felt. How many thousands of times she must have cried out for them to stop." 
Vaught said a few weeks after the murder, she found a shoe box in her daughter's closet. On top of it was written "For my eyes only. Please do not open." 
The box contained some of the secrets that led to her daughter's murder, letters from a 15-year-old girl that Shanda Renee had met at a junior high school in New Albany. The letters were from the girl whose jealous friend, Melinda Loveless, 16, plotted to kill Shanda and got others to help her. 
Vaught said she read every letter. 
"In the start it was, 'I like boys, do you?' and. 'I like girls too. Do you like girls?"' she said. "She would compliment Shanda and tell her how pretty her hair was and how pretty her clothes were -an over­abundance of compliments. 

''You could just see how ma­nipulative she was, and how she was just working her and reeling her in. She would make comments like, 'I think it's OK to touch. Do you think it's OK to touch?' and 'Have you ever touched another girl?"' 
Vaught said it progressed to where the girl was telling her daughter that she loved her and loved Loveless, and couldn't make up her mind which one she wanted. The girl also wrote that she was afraid Loveless was going to hurt Shanda, she said. 
Vaught said it was not fair that most of the blame for the murder has been focused on Loveless and the girl prosecu­tors say was her chief accom­plice, Mary Tackett. The two have pleaded guilty to murder and other charges and could be sentenced to between 30 and 60 years in prison. 
Special Champion Holiday Offer! December 11th -December 18th 

FREE GIFT BUY TWO REVERSE WEAVEt) 

SWEATSHIRTS• AND RECEIVE 

THIS SPECIAL CHAMPION GIFT 

FREE! IWHILE SUPPLIES LAST.' 
[,1 sporls, in life and in our clothes, ;t takes a little more to make a ChampioPZ. 
n.e Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" OJ!en M~nday t~rough Saturday 9a.m. -Sp.m . 
Stop m and register to wm a free Champion spor-ts bag filW with aurhenric Champion a.Jhleric apparel -a $250 value! 
Monday, December 7, 1992

page 8 The Observer 
Swiss vote against joining European Economic Community 
BERN, Switzerland (AP) ­Swiss voters divided along lan­guage lines Sunday in rejecting the government's plan to stregnthen ties with the rest of Europe by joining a giant free trade zone spanning the conti­nent. 
The result was a strong blow for the government, which had seen joining the zone as an in­terim step toward joining the European Community. 
Voters in the predominantly French-speaking areas of western Switzerland, which has suffered more economically during the worldwide recession, strongly supported the plan. Voters in the more prosperous German-speaking east voted it down. 
Debate over the question cen­tered on the possible effects on the country's independence. The referendum drew 78 per­cent of eligible voters, com­pared to the normal 50 percent for such elections. 
Industry and banks argued that joining the planned Euro­pean Economic Area was the only option for Switzerland as its neighbors lower barriers to trade. Supporters predicted Swiss industry would have to move elsewhere to compete successfully in Europe. 
But opponents said Switzer­land would lose control over its future, curtail its tradition of grassroots democracy and have to open its borders to a flood of immigrants. 
Final official returns said 15 of Switzerland's 23 cantons voted against the proposal. It also lost narrowly in the popu­lar vote, with 1,786,121, or 50.3 percent of the voters, opposing and 1,763,016 supporting. 

~ CBR/STN.AS CEI.E.Bil.ATfOII THE I'WSPANC NilE. RICAN ~llON NNJAU.Y SPClNS('RS A PClSA.OrA -A Bel.M'«l\.W.. CEL.EBRATK)N OF MARY IHJ JCISE PW'S .J()t.IWEY TO BETtt..EtEt.l A AECEPllON 'MlL. FOLLQN .. DI..J...OH'S HAU..'S TV R:O'. PlEASE ..K»>I us"' DATE: TUESDAY, DECEMBt:R 8, 1992 llME: 7:00 PM PLACE: POSADA -STEPS OF THE MAIN BLDG RECEPnON ­DILLON HALL CO-sPC»60FED BY HISPNIC ·AMERICAN OAGAHIZATlCf\1 {HAD~. c;a:() PRMo\~ OORan.P. N.:J ll£CFfiCI: <Fwa:rrY sn.oENT ~  
DO YOU NEED HEALTH INSURANCE? • Graduating? • 19 or older and maybe no longer covered under your parent's policy? • Between jobs? • Need better coverage? Call Georgia Mead at Acardia Collegiate Benefits at 1-800-257-6821 or (317) 885-2059. CALL TODAY FOR LOW COST IMMEDIATE health insurance coverage! ~rdia., Ac:ordia Collegiate• .,..__,_.... Benefits  

member. The result would be a of the Swiss decision. 
Approval required majorities 
huge free-trade zone of 370
of both the popular vote and of 
Switzerland and Liechten­

million people from Iceland to
the cantons. 
Greece.The members of the stein, which votes next Sunday,
Up to 80 percent of voters in 
trade association have are the group's only members
French-speaking cantons ap­
scheduled a meeting for putting the treaty to a public
proved the plan. German­
Thursday to discuss the impact vote.
speaking areas voted against in 

YOU are invited to be a part of a small Christian community. 
Gather as a mixed group ofmen and women students to pray, to reflect upon Scripture, an·d to discuss the issues that challenge us as Adult Christians. 

ties 


' . ') I 
The ChalleV1ge of .Adt.-dt Ch~istio.~ity 
o 
me€tings twice monthly, according to your schedule 

o 
all student-led, with resources provided by Campus Ministry 


0 

sign ups from now until December17 in the BadinHall and Library offices of Campus Ministry ... put yourbooks away for a few minutes and sign up TODAY! 
.. o questions?Just come on in and ask! 0fv\EUS 
N\JNISTRY 

Bodin Hall • l..\l'livc,.sii):' ofNot,.c Dame • Not,.c DameJ Jndiol'la 46556 • (219) 239-5242 
equally large percentages. The cantons with the smaller Ital­ian-and Romansch-speaking minorities, in southeastern Switzerland, also voted against the plan.Some commentators said the vote showed Swiss Germans, who make up two­thids of Switzerland's 7 million people, were afraid that too close links with powerful Germany to the north would overwhelm Switzerland. 
Under a treaty signed in May, the European Economic Area would be created by the 12-na­tion European Community and the smaller, seven-nation Eu­ropean Free Trade Association, of which Switzerland ·is a 
In Loving Memory 
Patric/(~i[{y 
McManus 
tJi'D. '88 SUJim ?:eam Captain 87-88 ~e6ruary 24; 1966 1Jecem6er 7) 1988 


1993-94 RA APPLICATIONS 
Are Now Available 
Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 
Through Friday, January 22, 1993 
r.Buy 4* ;-ssions at the regula-;:!I·price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and j I Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA7 I 

Viewpoint 
Monday, December 7, 1992 page 9 


The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Kudos' to women in war combat 
Dear Editor: Today's battlefields span oceans For his part, he blew up rau·-­
Just a short note to one E. and continents. Gone are the headings, ferried Jews to.-­Johnson of Dillon Hall: kudos days of sword play and Sweden, and stitched diapers to you for having the guts to wrestling. for his newborn daughter from admit a rather personal belief We live in a world of stand-off the silk R.A.F. parachutes he in the very public pages of The weapons, where the finger that collected during clandestine Observer. After much consid­launches the missile or releases weapon drops. His wife hid eration and soul-searching (I the payload or pulls the trigger grenades and machine guns found it by my colon). I, too, may very well be the same under the false bottom of the have decided to come "out of finger that supported a baby's pram she used for her daugh­the closet" in a show of head in the maternity ward. ter. amnesty. If someone questions the She walked around the town, 
I want the world, or at least ability of women to withstand delivering weapons to her this distinguished readership, to the terror of Vietnam-style compatriots, the baby girl a y parap erna 1a know that I also believe that combat, I feel they should be cooing all the way. She would differences, both physical and given the chance to prove it. have killed any Nazi who made chemical exist between men I feel they already have. a move for the contraband or needed for mother and women. It is not, however, During the Second World War, her child. 
Dear Editor: touch with her and "Connie"
a belief based solely on faith. many Soviet women served in The issue of women in combat On the morning of June 13, says she is very happy that sheAs for the rest of your article the Red Air Force, downing is a very serious one. I hope I 1992, "Connie" approached an decided to keep her baby. But(Women's physical, chemical scores of Nazi planes. Israeli have not belittled it in any way. 
abortion clinic in Chicago for now we are asking the Notremakeup precludes combat}, I women are drafted into that The rape of our female POW's 
her scheduled abortion. She Dame community to help
am hard-pressed to find a point nation's armed forces on an during the Gulf War does raise 
was approximately 10 weeks "Connie."
you raise with which I can equal footing with men. serious objections as to their pregnant. Even though all of "Connie's"agree. If "Nature reflects this Their country's very survival participation in combat Before entering the building, medical expenses are beingperfectly. The biggest and is a testament to their ability. situations. It does in no way sidewalk counselors asked to covered by a Catholic hospitalstrongest animal is the one who During the Gulf War, thousands reflect on their ability to speak with he"r. (Sidewalk in Chicago, she and her familysurvives; this would be the of American women went "in perform combat duties. I 
counselors are those people still have many needs.
male," why is it that, on the av­harm's way" to do their duty. f I had to run across No Man's who try to encourage women to "Connie's" family includes hererage, women live longer than One was captured and raped by Land, I would rather have a keep their babies and offer husband and two sons, ages six men? Iraqi soldiers. qualified and committed woman 
helpful and compassionate and ten.
And what of resiliency? I They raped her because she covering me than a man whose information to women facing We would like to make this awould say that any form that was a woman. They couldn't moral fiber was of weaker stuff. 
crisis pregnancies.) special Christmas for the wholecan carry, deliver, and nurture shatter her spirit or To exclude such women from 
After talking for about 15 family as well as help them
an offspring under the cruelest commitment because she was a combat on the wrong minutes, "Connie" agreed to go prepare for their new arrival inof conditions is a far more re­tremendously brave, strong, assumption that they are not as to a crisis pregnancy center less January. We also want tosilient form than one who resilient human being. capable is a waste of valuable than a mile away. continue to help "Connie"merely rolls over and feigns I recall a story I have been manpower. Pardon the pun. 
Mter her visit at this center, throughout the next year.
sleep. told a few times: in April of For the record, the boy and "Connie" asked to be driven Regardless of your position onCombat in these final few 1940, the Germans invaded and his bride are my grandparents, back to the clinic where she abortion, all should agree thatyears of the twentieth century conquered Denmark in six Kurt and Gurli Jensen. The lit­was to meet her husband. Upon this is a worthy cause. If youhas equated the sexes. A hours. A twenty-year-old boy tle girl, my mother. 
seeing her husband and briefly have any baby clothes or otherwoman is just as capable at and his nineteen-year-old bride Jonathan M. Walsh 
speaking with him in front of baby paraphernalia you would
squeezing off a few rounds from quit the life they were planning Morrissey Hall the clinic doors, "Connie" like to give to "Connie" or if you an M-16 rifle as any man is. and joined the Resistance. Dec.3,1992 

announced, with a broad would like to contribute cash beautiful smile, that they had towards a crib, please call me decided to keep their baby! at 271-7137. Most importantly, 
On the spot, the counselors please include "Connie" and her promised "Connie" and her family in your prayers. husband any help that they Mary Rose Lalli needed. The counselor who first NO & SMC Right to Life 
I) I) 

spoke with her has kept in Dec.3, 1992 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'There is no such thing as bad weather, only different kinds of good weather.' 
John Ruskin 
Fmd a silver Uning, submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Bo:r Q. ND. IN 46556 
12-7 


Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, December 7, 1992 


Campus Ministry handled issues 'incompletely' 
homosexual person is not a sin, legitimately limited for objec­harmless, if not an entirelyAlumnus Paul Fisher's in­it is a more or less strong ten­tively disordered external con­good thing' and hence worthy of 
formative paid advertisement dency ordered toward an in­Charles E. Rice duct. This is sometimes not public approval. on homosexuality, in the Nov. 6 
trinsic moral evil, and thus the Right or Wrong? only licit but obligatory.... In­It is from this quarter that issue, drew fire from Campus inclination itself must be seen cluding 'homosexual orienta­one is more likely to find those 
Ministry and others. The CDF letter then applies
as an objective disorder.'. . . 'It tion' among the considerations who seek to 'manipulate the 
these principles to the proposed
is deplorable that homosexual on the basis of which it is illegal church by gaining the often
As Campus Ministry noted in legislation:
persons have been and are the to discriminate can easily lead well-intentioned support of herits Nov. 12 response, that office object of violent malice in to regarding homosexuality as a pastors with a view to changing
has correctly explained to the '"Sexual orientation' does not
speech or in action. positive source of human rights, civil statutes and laws' [and]Notre Dame community some Such treatment deserves constitute a quality comparable for example, in respect to so­those who use the tactic of
basic elements of the homo­to race, ethnic background,
condemnation....But the called affirmative action or protesting that 'any and all
sexual issue. etc., in respect to nondiscrimi­
proper reaction to crimes preferential treatment in hiring criticism of or reservations
However, Campus Ministry nation. Unlike these, homo­
committed against homosexual practices. about homosexual people...are
has generally failed to inform sexual orientation is an objec­
persons should not be to claim This is all the more deleteri­simply diverse forms of unjust
the community on two aspects tive disorder.... There are
that the homosexual condition ous since there is no right to discrimination.,.,
of the issue: on the intrinsic orientation into account, for ex­
is not disordered. homosexuality...which there­Campus Ministry's incom­
disorder of the homosexual ample, in the placement of
When such a claim is made fore should not form the basis plete treatment of the homo­
inclination itself and on the jus­children for adoption or foster
and when homosexual activity for judicial claims.... The sexual issue poorly serves the
tifiability of discrimination care, in employment of teachers
is consequently condoned, or 'sexual orientation' of a person Notre Dame community. The
against homosexuals in some athletic coaches, and in
when civil legislation is intro­or is not comparable to race, sex, CDF letter incorporates much
situations. military recruitment. 
duced to protect behavior to age, etc. also for another rea­Church teaching on the subject.
Specifically, to the date of Homosexual persons, as hu­
which no one has any conceiv­son. . . . An individual's sexual Although it is not itself an of­
this writing, Campus Ministry man persons, have the same
able right, [no one] should be orientation is generally not ficial teaching, Notre Dame
has not publicized the recent rights as all persons, including
surprised when other distorted known to others unless he pub­students were entitled to be in­
observations communicated by the right of not being treated in
notions and practices gain licly identifies himself as having formed about it so that they
the Congregation for the Doc­a manner which offends their
ground, and irrational and vio­this orientation or unless some could adequately form their
trine of the Faith (CDF) to the personal dignity.... Among
lent reactions increase.'... 'In overt behavior manifests it... judgments on the subject. That
American bishops on legislative other rights, all persons have
assessing [the] proposed legis­Homosexual persons who assert they were not so informed is
proposals "which would make the right to work, to housing,
lation, the...uppermost con­their homosexuality tend to be one indication, among others,discrimination on the basis of cern [should be] the responsi­etc. precisely those who judge that, at this Prestigious Re­
sexual orientation illegal." Nevertheless, these rights are
bility to defend and promote homosexual behavior or search University, the func­
Released to the public by the not absolute. They can be
familv life.'" 
lifestyle to be.. 'completely tionally official religion is Politi­Vatican on July 23, the docu­cal Correctness. 
ment was intended as "a back­
In general, and beyond the
ground resource" rather than 
homosexual issue, Campus
"an official and public instruc­Ministry would serve the com­tion on the matter." Neverthe­munity if it would present every
less, it is indefensible that 
week in The Observer a currentCampus Ministry has not fully 
statement of the Pope on a
communicated its contents to 
moral or social issue. At thisthe Notre Dame community. 
allegedly Catholic institution,
The CDF document first re­the Pope ought to be entitled atviews basic elements of the is­least to equal time.
sue: "'[l]ndividual homosexual actions' are 'intrinsically disor­
Professor Rice is a member of
dered' and 'in no case to be ap­
the Law School faculty. His
proved of'.... 'Although the 
column appears every other
particular inclination of the 
Monday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Do human rights exist in our world? TelevisiOn is only a 
Dear Editor: improved, at which point the economic well-being had ' fl t • f • t ' The term human rights was people C?uld begin enjoying full c_onsistently better human re ec I 0 n 0 SOCIe yused by Eleanor Roosevelt human rights. nghts records than those who ' wh~n,asco-c~ai~oftheunited ~sforwhentrickle-down didnot. nOt the arChl•teCt Of •It
NatiOns CommissiOn on Human might take place and the extent Rights, she helped draft the of the sacrifice and cost to be This view may be right to a Universal Declaration of Human paid by the people, such ques-certain degree, despite possible society in a post-industrial age, 
Dear Editor:
Rights. tions remain unanswered. differences on what is meant by a society where single mothers
This letter Is in response to
She discovered that the term On the one hand, it is not "better human rights records". are forced to go to work. I don't
Jeffrey O'Donnells' editorial
rights of man as it appeared in correct to ignore the concrete Not to be overlooked, however, remember Murphy Brown ac­
"Media assault family values' • 
a number of documents was not outcome of economic is the fact that countries cepting her motherhood with
(The Observer, Dec. 3).
automatically understood in development by which per described as enjoying higher great jubilation. But then, what
To begin with, we laughed at 
some parts of the world to capita income has increased levels of economic well-being were the other alternatives?
Dan Quayle not because he
include the rights of woman. and widespread material also have human rights records We could declare a "cultural
used his elected position to
The rights of man phrase had . improvements have occurred. as bad as or worse than poor war• on Hollywood. You com­
preach about morality. but be­
at an earlier date replaced the On the other hand, one may countries. mented that Stalin wanted to 
cause of his Incapacity to dis­
term natural rights, widely not ignore that such serious control Hollywood, in order to
tinguish between fact and fan­
used during the Enlightenment. ongoing violations of human Comparison of the human control the world. What do you
tasy. He went after a fictitious
Later, on Dec. 10, 1948, the rights still happen in many rights situation in South Korea think Mr. Buchanan plans to
character. What if he had gone
United Nations General Assem-parts of the world. and Sri Lanka are the best do? Liberals have not taken
after Bugs Bunny, and told him
bly adopted the Universal Dec­examples for this argument. control of the media. As far as I
to stop beating up on Elmer
laration of Human Rights. The The trade-ofT theory between can see, public television has
Fudd? The creators of the
General Assembly proclaimed economic development and It is difficult to deny that even not been outlawed.
show responded by entertain­
this Declaration as "a common non-economic development, or though South Korea in terms of Certainly, I respect your con­
ing our noble vice-president by
standard of achievement for all what is widely used as the economy can be considered a cern for our morality. But, you
incorporating Mr. Quayle, a
peoples and nations," and de­trade-off between development newly industrializing country take us as unthinking automa­
real character, into their first
clared that "all human beings and human rights, arose from (NIC), its human rights record tons being brainwashed by the
episode.
are born free and equal in dig­the idea that the exercise of has not yet improved. "media elite. • I don't take Bart
Putting Mr. Quayle behind
nity and rights". many human rights, both eco­Simpson or Murphy Brown se­
me, I must admit that the qual­
But for many countries in the nomic, social and cultural, and On the other hand, Sri Lanka, riously, in the same way I don't
ity of the family is declining in
world, especially the Third civil and political, interferes obviously is not a developed take Mr. Quayle seriously.
America. This is a serious
World, the real meaning of this with or slows the rate of eco­country-and, as in South Cheers is a comedy, not politi­
problem. But I don't subscribe
Declaration is no more than nomic growth and development. Korea, human rights violations cal propaganda. Lilith, a satire
to the liberal r.onspiracy theory.
words on paper. They are still continue. of feminism, makes me laugh.
Television is. as with all media.
facing serious problems of the Therefore it has been a reflection of society, and not
"trade-off" between human regularly argued that in the What will mankind be like Greg Moriarty
the architect of it. Murphy
rights and development. interest of both human rights when it enters the twenty-first Grace Hall
Brown reflects the change in
Theorists of economic devel­and development many, even century? People are already Dec. 3, 1992 opment hold that it must be­most, internationally recog­fascinated by this not too dis­succeed whatever cost and sac­nized human rights must be tant future. rifice are shouldered by the temporarily suspended. people because, in the end, But the real "trade-off" economic development will In this connection, it is inter­between human rights and bring with it benefits of the esting to note the observation of development still happens in other categories of human some scholars that economic many countries. Isn't it ironic rights. modernization leads to political that many people in the world 
The prevailing notion among stability and in turn, to in­still question: "Are there any economic planners has been creased respect for human human rights?" that this form of trickle-down rights. would ultimately take place Satya Arlnanto when the economic condition of They argued that countries Graduate Student the people was sufficiently which enjoyed higher levels of Dec.4,1992 




Accent 
Monday, December 7, 1992 page 11 


publishable quality. 

By ELISABETH HEARD 
Out of the twelve people currently in 
the program, each one comes from a 
different background and has different 

What do a Ouija board, a Gypsy. 
Accent Writer 
goals for the years ahead. phone call, and a midwife all have in 
Benedict graduated from the common? 
University of Massachusetts, and from They are all subjects of stories tha1 
there went to work as a lobbyist in are going to be read by graduatf 
Washington. Mter getting his masters in students in the creative writing prograrr 
creative writing, he would like to teach here at Notre Dame. 
on the college level and publish. "I would also like to do a movie, write the On Monday, December 7th at 7 p.m. ir 
screenplay and direct," he said, "and if the faculty lounge in the Hesburgt 
dollars permit, travel." l.ibrary, eight students in this prograrr 
Searfoss graduated from Indiana will read either short stories or excerpt~ 
University and worked as a reporter in froT!l novels that they have written. 
advertising and public relations. "My fantasy is to buy a horse farm, breed"It is sort of a 

program," said Jessica Lapp, a secane 
horses and ride, " she said wistfully, "but year Masters student in the Creativf 
I will probably work for the advertising writing program and a third year Ph. D 
agency thirty hours a week and use the student in the English department. "It i: 
extra hours for writing." to tell everyone that Notre Dame doe: have a creative writing program." 
Lapp graduated from Goshen college 
in Goshen, Indiana, and worked as a 

The reading will last approximate!: high school teacher for four years before two hours, with each person reading fo returning to pursue her masters in cre­about fifteen minutes. The reading wil ative writing and Ph. D. in English, while be informal, so students and faculty ar· McGee took off a year of school before invited to come in at any time during th returning to school. He entered into the program and stay for as long as the creative writing program in fall of 1991, would like. Light refreshments will b and after graduating, he will either served. teach full time or go for his Ph. D .. 
The stories that will be read range i subject matter. Lapp will be reading he One thing all of these students have in short story "Where I'm Calling From. common is a love for reading and "It is about a woman calling home on writing, and the desire to pursue their business trip and taking stock on her lif dreams. "All of us are interested in pub­at that time," she said. lishing," said Lapp. Benedict adds, "and 
teaching is also a big common thing 

Matthew Benedict, a first year gra among us all. As a writer, you have a student, is going to read "The Ouij love for the word, and it is nice to share Board," a short story about a broth€ 
that with someone." and sister who are cleaning out thei 
These grad students find that they mother's house after she dies of cance 
have many things in common with other and find a Ouija board in the attic. 
graduate students who are not "Trimester" by William McGee, 
necessarily in the English programs. "More than half have done other things'Teaching is also a big between undergraduate and graduate work," said Benedict. "The community
common thing among us. 
of the university is very supportive. The As a writer you have to mind is working always." 
have a love for the word, The reading that will take place on 
stories which will be read, and the topics "You never get a story that everybody 
Monday night is a chance for the

and it is nice to share that 
of the remaining four are equally hated or everybody loved," said Lapp. 
students in this new program to get

interesting. "The other four are just as "Everyone has a different style." 
with someone.' some exposure. This reading is the first 
diverse," said Benedict. "And it's nice to have a variety of view 
one of its kind here at Notre Dame, and -Jessica Lapp points," adds Benedict. "The people are there are plans to have another one next 
The creative writing program is brand very friendly and informal." 
semester. They encourage everyone tosecond year grad student, focuses on the new, having been started in the fall of attend and listen to the stories that theyrelationship between a midwife and an 1990. The director is William O'Rourke, A master's in creative writing takes 

have to tell. "The basic reason for doing abnormal pregnancy, while Cynthia who has had several fiction and non two years to complete, and the this," said Benedict, "is to say 'here we
Searfoss, a second year student, reads fiction books published. Each semester, requirement to graduate is to write a are.' " an excerpt from her novel, Toll Roads. the students must take one to two collection of short stories or a novel of 
Harvard professor Gould to speak about the mystery of evolution 
By MATT CARBONE Earlier this year, the faculty of This theory postulates that Professor of Geology, and Gould explains this by saying Accent Writer the Biology Department asked evolution is not a smooth, slow, Curator of Invertebrate Paleon­that up to a certain point in its 
their students to send written and steady process, but is tology in Harvard's Museum of gestation, the human fetus is 
invitations to those speakers instead a haphazard happening Comparative Zoology. neither male nor female. 
You have a monstrous amount whom they would like to see at which occurs in leaps and He has won awards for his During this time when the sex of studying to do for finals, but NO. spurts. In these spurts, many teaching, his nonfiction books, of the fetus is not yet you don't want to begin just yet. genetic changes take place in a and his research. determined, mammary glands Still, you don't want to totally Charlebois decided to write relatively short period of time. In his lecture, Gould will develop, in the event that the isolate your mind from Gould, one of the premier Then, the species will remain at speak about the different fetus becomes a female. academic pursuits and turn into evolutionists in the world. a certain stage of development interpretations and Sometimes, as is its wont, the workshop. 
During the workshop, three people each week give copies of their stories to the others in the class, and the students critique it. "You get one or two people who don't agree," said Searfoss. 
a mound of intellectual Knowing that he is very much for millions and millions of explanations of evolution, and fetus becomes a male. By this uselessness. in demand, and that ND has years, until the next spurt of will show how we can examine time, however, the mammary ­
A happy medium awaits you: been trying to get Gould for a change occurs. the development of humans to glands are already present, and reknowned evolutionist and long time, her hopes were not Gould received his undergrad­observe our evolution. the male is stuck with them for geologist Stephen Jay Gould will very high, making Gould's uate degree in geology from An­As an example of what the his lifetime. be at ND to make a acceptance that much more tioch College in 1963, and his lecture holds in store, and how So if you're interested in male presentation en titled "The exciting. Ph.D. in geology from Columbia development can be used to ex­nipples, or would just like a 
Proper Integration of The recipient of a staggering University in 1967. plain evolution, Charlebois ex­break before you plunge into Development and Evolution" on number of awards, degrees, He went on to become a plained Gould's answer to one your torturous studying, the Wednesday, December 9th. and fellowships, Gould is most faculty 1nember of Harvard of the most perplexing presentation will be held in the 
Gould is attending at the be­noted for his "punctuated University, rising to his current questions facing humankind Hesburgh Library Auditorium hest of Pat Charlebois, a gradu­equilibrium" theory of positions as· the Alexander today -Why do males have at 8 p.m. Admission is free and ate student of Biology at ND. evolution. Agas~iz Professor of Zoology, mammary glands? open to the public. 

-·-· -·--··---------------------~­
Accent

page 12 Monday, December 7, 1992 
The enigma of Teach For America 
Corps volunteers' good intentions run up a 
By DAVID KINNEY enabled a team of college 'chapter 1' school that is strong 
News Editor graduates to make the idea a in math and reading. reality in 1990. TFA's $7 million budget is met primarily through Since the school is in a low in­
Barb Moran, a first-year corporate and foundation come area, it faces teacher and teacher at an inner-city junior donations. textbook shortages, and the high in Houston, has lost hope. drastic cuts to this year's state "I don't want to face it any­TFA recruits heavily at over budget offer no promise for the 
more," she said. "I thought it 150 college campuses, seeking, future. was a way I could make a in particular, minorities, bilin­But the school is unique in difference. But I can't make a gual speakers, and math, that many of the children come 
difference." science and foreign language from different areas of Moran, who graduated from majors. Pasadena with different 
the University of Notre Dame in Over 8,500 people have ap­economic and cultural May, is among 600 young stu­plied in the program's first backgrounds, according to dents who gave up plans for three years, and 1,800 have Stevens. The school is well­
graduate schools and profes­been placed in schools around known for its ability to offer en­
sional careers to enlist in the the nation as corps members. richment programs and EnglishTeach for America program This year, over 300 have language development to its (TFA) this year. applied from Notre Dame alone, students. 
The program sponsors a na­according to Suzanne Muchin, The experience is a tional corps of college TFA's midwest recruiter. rewarding one for Steven. graduates who commit two Corps members are placed "Seeing kids progress is really years of teaching in under­according to academic back­exciting."resourced and rural public grounds, personal preferences And while she said teaching is 
schools. TFA seeks primarily initially frustrating and non-education majors in order 'I'm not being driven challenging, it is not hopeless. to attract a new pool of people "You have to look into yourself
into teaching. out by the kids, I'm 
in order to deal with yourselfFor Moran, that meant being being driven out by and to deal with others," she 
thrust into a violent, poverty­explained.stricken public school composed the hopelessness of Many TFA participants stay in mostly of Hispanics and blacks. education, Muchin said. Of the
the whole system.' 

"It's a lot like hazing in a 1990 corps group, 60 percent
sorority," Moran said, calling -Barb Moran are still teaching and 69 the transition stunning and the percent are still in education. school "unimaginable." She and the needs of each school. Others return to graduateteaches five reading classes -Currently, TFA places young studies or professional fields without books -in a room in­teachers in 14 locations, includ­elsewhere. fested with cockroaches. ing New York City, Los Angeles, Among the goals of the pro­
Washington, D.C., and rural ar­gram is to open member's eyesMoran described a school eas of North Carolina, Arkansas to the problems inherent in the marked by unchecked violence and Georgia. American public school system
and public sex. She explained Although TFA provides initial and what needs to be done. that students there aspire to ca­training, Muchin acknowledged For Moran, the root of the reers as sluts, pimps and drug that members face culture problem is the family, and that dealers. shock, whether it is racial, geo­is where the hopelessness lies. 
"They have no vision," she graphical or financial. "What can be done to help the said. "Most of them are just Since most members do not family? Nothing." mired in the system." have a background in education She said money in the system
Moran said that TFA is a good and little or no teaching experi­is spent poorly, citing the pur­program with an excellent ence, the program includes a chase of four VCRs at a school training program and support. pre-service institute to provide when~ teachers don't even have "We've got the right idea, but members the resources and textbooks. 
they're not going to change the guidance to prepare them for Muchin, who spent two years
system." their first year of teaching, ac­as a corps member in South 
And most agree that the sys­cording to Muchin. Bronx, said recruiting better tem throughout the nation is in Corps members also travel to and more dedicated teachers is shambles. "The school system is their schools as part of a local essential. "We need to get so bad," Moran said. "And TFA induction that orients them to different people in the is just a band-aid." their school and community. classrooms, and make teaching 
The program, developed in There, they become salaried a respectable occupation." 
low. "Districts need to find of the whole system." 
concept by Wendy Kopp in teachers working side-by-side "All of these bright and 
better ways to recruit She said she plans to leave
1989, operates under the vision with professionals. enthusiastic people are going 
teachers," she said. "People education for a while, spend
that "one day, all children in Not all members face the ex­elsewhere" because of the low 
who can leave do." some time with her family andthis nation will have an equal tremes Moran describes. Adri­salary base for teachers, she As for Moran, at the end of perhaps go into journalism. Butopportunity to attain a quality anne Stevens, a graduate of added. 
this year, she is leaving Houston has left its mark on
education." Tufts University, was placed at While TFA cannot solve these Houston. her.
Initial funding from the Mobil the Cleveland Elementary problems, Muchin said she 
"I'm not being driven out by "Maybe someday, I'll go

Foundation and Union Carbide School in Pasadena, Calif., a hopes the program can serve as the kids," she said. "I'm being back." 
Spreading holiday cheer 
. '· Musical performances announce Christmas season . 
By SARAH DORAN performed by an ensemble of series," said Eric Kuhner, an accompaniment also features Christmas recital each year. Accent Writer Notre Dame music students as administrative assistant in the all student soloists." Cramer is spending this year part of Advent Vespers in the music department. "It is always The annual Glee Club Concert and next performing the com­
The holiday season is well un­Basilica of the Sacred Heart. central to the music will be performed Saturday De­plete works of Bach by doing derway on campus as students department's Chrismas cember 12 in the JACC. "The one work concert each month encounter signs of Christmas The second performance, performance series and a Glee Club concert draws great and one work each concert for everywhere they turn. To help which took place last night, was beautiful performance," crowds. They can always be each of the two years. His 
-
further this feeling of holiday the annual Advent Lessons and counted on to put on a great recitals are being given at cheer, Notre Dame's music de­Carols program. It featured The third concert offered by show," said Kuehner. (Tickets different places around the partment in conjunction with carols performed by the Basil­the music department is the are 1$ at the door and Northern Indiana-Chicago area Campus Ministry will present a ica's chioir, women's choir, folk Handel's "Messiah," perfromed LaFortune Box office.) and throughout the country, number of holiday programs choir, schola choir and handbell on December 1 0 in Washington said Keuhner. that feature both student and choir. Hall by the Notre Dame Chorale The last of the Christmas per­faculty performers. and Orchestra. formances is a faculty organ "Bach is a composer whose "Advent Lessons is part of the "What is being presented is recital to be performed by Craig works are often featured in Bach's Cantata No. 61, "Nun annual vespers series that in­the Christmas portion of the Cramer, an organ professor at Christmas performances. Two komm der Heiden Heiland," cludes a number of different "Messiah" rather than the Notre Dame, on Sunday Decem­of the five university perfor­was the first program offered student groups and choirs that entire piece," said Kuehner, ber 13 in the Basilica, featuring mances being offered this sea­on November 29. It was perform during the vespers "the choir and orchestra works of Bach. Cramer gives a son feature Bach, said Keuhner. 

-... .., ~ ........... ,. . 
Monday, December 7, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 


Wins 
continued from page 20 
was fouled with 39 seconds left but hit only one of two. Loyola turned it over the en­suing possession, but Notre Dame could not run out the clock, as Russell traveled with 14 seconds remaining. The Ramblers failed to take advantage of the gift as Bernie Salth blew a layup, and Joe Ross grabbed the rebound to give the Irish the win. "We got a good shot, but it just didn't fall," Loyola coach Will Rey said of the last shot. On Sunday, Notre Dame looked like a completely differ­ent team in its upset of Evansville. Ryan Hoover, who was pulled in favor of Russell in the final minutes of the Loyola game, played like a veteran at the point. "My job is to hit my shots and get the offense going," Hoover said. · He did just that, scoring a game-high 21 points while hit­
ting six of seven shots from the 
floor and seven of seven from 
the line. 
"Ryan had a big improvement from Friday night," MacLeod said of the freshman. "He's going to have his ups and downs. Hopefully, he won't have too many downs." 
Evansville had a 51-39 lead 
with 16:45 left, but the Irish 
kept their composure and 
gradually chipped away at the 
lead. 
"We started to play good de­fense, and that was what al­lowed us to come ba.ck," Russell said. · 
After going to a smaller lineup, featuring Russell at center, the Irish began to click. 
''We didn't want to play big people against their quick peo­ple. That group we had on the floor played very well," MacLeod said. 
"We came together as a team in the second· half. We began to relax and were more sure of ourselves," he added. 
The Irish took their first iead of the second half with 8:39 left when Boyer hit a three-pointer, 
and he then opened the Notre 
Dame advantage to 66-61 when 
he drove the lane for a layup. 
"I thought Brooks gave us a 
tremendous boost off the 
bench," MacLeod commented. 
"He gave us help when we 
needed it." 
The Aces responded, taking a 70-68 lead with 2:16 remaining on Scott Schreffier's trey. 
Fourteen seconds later, Monty Williams hit two foul shots to tie the game, and the Irish defense then forced a 45-second violation. 
With 1:02 remaining, Hoover fed Russell for what proved to be the game-winning layup. 
"We had been running that play and they (Evansville) had been laying ofT me. I got the ball in the post, and I had an open layup," Russell explained. 
Russell then drew a charge on the other end, and Boyer sunk two free throws to ice the game with 14 seconds left. 
"We now know where we are," MacLeod said. 'Tm happy with how we played, and we are improving. This is a real confidence builder for us." 

Schreffier 6-12 2-4, Casebier 5-17 7­8 18, Elkins 8-14 0-1 21, Cochenour 3-6 0-0 8, Jackson 1-4 4-6 6, Hisle 0-1 0-0 0, Hath 0-0 0-0 0, Walker 0-0 0-0 0, Chandler 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 23-54 13-19 70. 
NOTRE DAME (2-0) 
Williams 4-7,8-1017, Russell3-8 3­
Taylor 6-10 4-4 16, Jon Ross 2-5 0-0 4, Joe Ross 0-0 0-0 0, Justice 0-0 0-0 0, Boyer 2-4 2-2 7. Totals 24-46 24-27 76. 
Halftime-Evansville 39, Notre Dame 32. 3-point goals-Evansville 11-24 (Elkins 5-6, Schreffier 3-6, Cochenour 2-5. Casebier 1-5, Jackson 0-1, Hisle 0-1). Notre Dame 4-7 (Hoover 2-3, Williams 1-1, Boyer 1-1, Cozen 0-2). 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the • Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Lost: 14K gold bracelet. Would the  Help! I need a ride to the  ND alum in Chicago has perfect  P-N-J  
NOTICES  young man who called on Thurs. Dec. 3 please call again?  WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas Break. I can leave as early as  X-mas gift for you from Mom and Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof,  SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS.  SENIORS SENIORS Pick up Weekly Bulletin at  
239-7007. Thank you.  Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison  5-spd., am/fm, cassette, garaged  LONDON AND ROME.  
ATIENTION:  at X4758 or X4721  since owned, low miles, perfect  MEETING DEC. 9TH, 6:15 pm-ND  Career & Placement Services  
For more information and  LOST: One pair of fruit-punch  condition, complete with ND sticker.  LIBRARY LOUNGE.  
assistance regarding the  soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium  FEMALE SEEKING NEAT,  Must sell! $6400 or best offer. (312)  INFO: CALL PROF A.R. BLACK  for invitational interviews for the  
investigation of financing, business  lot. If found, please call Tony at 287­ NONSMOKING HOUSEMATE  348-7867.  284-4460 OR 272-3726  first two weeks of the Spring  
opportunities and work-at-home  9341 because I doubt they'll fit you.  10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS.  GO IRISH!  semester-turn in resumes through  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  No questions asked.  $260/MONTH. 277-7048.  Need a ride to the PHILADELPHIA  THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10.  
urges its readers to contact the  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  area??  
Better Business Bureau of  LOST: 14K GOLD BRACELET  ND prof has car but dislikes driving,  Rita Delivery on Campus  I'm headed home and looking for  ••• GROVER!!!!! •••  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007  seeks someone to share driving  234-6524  someone to share the driving. If  Thursday night left me curious.  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ FROM 8-5 OR 277-5132 AFTER 5.  from South Bend December 26 to  you can drive a stick shift car, call  must talk to you again. Call Rex  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313.  SKIIS ... please ... SKIIS ... please  Akron-Cleveland area, and back January  TICKETS  Greg at 289-494 7.  *1613 and dinner is on me!  
If you have any info on Rossignol &  2. Call AI at 5378.  Anyone need a ride to Long Island  We're looking for the male runner  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a  for Christmas Break? X4035  wearing BUGLE BOYS December 3  
storage closet in Farley Hall. contact  MODELS: Photographer needs  I NEED 2 lU-ND  at 9 p.m. Please contact the girls in  
TYPING  Paula at 283-4271. Reward if  college-age females for photos in  Basketball tix  It's FINALLY here!  the Honda  
r 287-4082  found...extra Christmas · , -·­"'-~­ sparts-~arel. Call Jim at 273-7074  Diane, you're 21 ! I !  (284-44.13, 284-4367, 284-4443.)  
cash ... Piease!!!  after 5 for info.  Mike x1161  We know you'll make it worth the  
WordWorks Typing Service  wait ... but remember: those who  Let's Go Greyhound  
Term papers, dissertations, theses  LOST: Black psych folder w/exp  Need RIDERS to Wise, VA  drink last drink most ! :)  New York-$116 rnd/trip.  
277-7406  card & notes; last seen at N. Dining  (SWVa) for Xmas break.  MARDI GRAS!!  luv, D & E (or is that F & G ?)  D.C. -$135 rnd/trip.  
Hall last Wed.; if you have it  Call Lisa at x2620  For Sale: One-way plane ticket from  Richmond VA -$147.50 rnd/trip.  
All WORDPROCESSING services.  call x4586-ask for Steve; no  S.B. to New Orleans on Feb. 19 or  Philadelphia­$128. rnd/trip.  
Andy 234-8789  questions  FOR RENT  any day. You name the price. 233­1958  IRISH VOLLEYBALL  Call287-6541 for details.  
Babysitter/Housekeeper available  LOST: green London Fog  Congrats on a tremendous  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  
2nd semester, MWFS; pay  down-filled jacket in 202 DeBart.  4, 5 or 6 bdrm. furnished houses,  Need GAs to Kentucky x4890$$  season and thanks for dragging  make dreams for your baby come  
negotiable, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. Please call Tanya at 283-1880.  before Thanksgiving break. If you found it, please call Laura x4801 ...1t's cold outside  SAFE, wash/dry, beach V-ball, sec. sys. 233-9947.  I PERSONAL  me along last week. You rule! Woody  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  
and I need my jacket!!!! Thanks.  2 bdr. apts available  (No, AT, that's NOT my real name)  fireplace in winter, and by ocean  
STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS  close to campus  AMANDA KAY  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
COMING! Wednesday, December 9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh  Help!! If you took my blue N.D. backpack from North Dining Hall on  $300 per month avilable for 2nd semester  have a wonderful day  P.S. See you next year !I!!!!!!!!!!!!!. . .  best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect.  
Library Auditorium. ILOST & FOUND I  Tue., Dec 1st at dinner, I'm still waiting for your call. (Raissa x4890) You have some papers that I really need back!! They couldn't be of any  and '92 -'93 school year call 232 -8256 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential  .........•.•...•.•.................... MOE HOE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE  (212)369-2597. RIDER NEEDED-I'm driving to NYC for break & need a rider. Call  
value to you, so why don't you just  219-291-7153  and legal. Expenses paid. Call  WORLD'S OLDEST SENIOR!!!  271-0742  .. ­ 
STRIPED & SWIPED!!!  take all the loose papers and stick  Cyndi and AI collect any1ime (805)  Now that you're finally twenty-two  
them back in one of the cubby holes  ROOMMATE WANTED:  520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­ don't you think you could suck it up  
SOMEONE STOLE MY BARBER  where you found the bag originally!  to live w/ 2 fern. grad students  5535.  and crash with something besides  ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple  
POLE ON SUNDAY NIGHT,  $175, incl. util., washer/dryer  your own stuffed beaver?!  dreams of sharing life with newborn.  
11/22/92. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  WANTED  call277-20651v message  MEN AND WOMEN  ....•.•.....•...•.•............•••...•  Hear us on our taped message. Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­ 
$50 REWARD.  FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE  467-8522.  
PAT'S BARBER SHOP  FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!  SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH  
273-8440.  Individuals and Student  COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  For more info. call COSIMO'S  Diane Glennl)n is 21 today!  
Organizations wanted to promote  4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210  277-1875.  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
I LOST MY RED UMBRELLA  the Hottest Spring Break  MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE,  +  HAPPY  
DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE  Destinations, call the nation's  DEPOSIT. 272-0806  CLOSE-OUT SALE  If she's not ovulating, you might  BIRTHDAY  
MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD.  leader. Inter-Campus programs  MUST GO PRICES!!!  actually see her out at the bars  DIANE!!  
LAST SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL  1-800-327-6013.  SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME.NEAR  Catholics Vs. Mormons  tonight!!! If so, wish Moey a Happy  
AMY AT 4530.  CAMPUS.SECURITY  $5/each or 2 for $8  22nd (even though she'll always be  Diane Glennon is 21 ! I  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­ SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272­ (Buy an XXL or XL, let a Large  a cowgirl wanna-be!) Love, Kimi &  
HUGE REWARD!!!! I promise.  Make money teaching English  6306  FREE)  Wid  Charmaine and Michelle  
Do you have my blue, Notre Dame  abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make  Supplies extremely limited!!  ++++++++++++++++++'+++++++++  Your are now true cowgirls.  
back pack-lost Monday Nov. 30 in  $2000-$4000 + per month. Many  Furnished room. $200/Mo  Available at Britton's Card Shop  +  Wait til next semester, Heartland  
North Dining Hall? Call me or bring  provide room & board + other  287-2159 Paul  (Next to Tracks)  ===========================  here we come.  
in by 617 PE, ASAP. NO questions  benefits! Financially & Culturally  OR Call: 287-6730  Love ya Ann  
asked. Heather X3762.  rewarding! For International  LAFAYETIE SQUARE  
Employment Group: (206)632-1146  still accepting names for  SENIORS SENIORS  .....MERRY CHRISTMAS .....  Tome,  
FOUND: ONE PAIR OF  ext. J5584.  the '93-'94 school year  AVOID THE CHRISTMAS RUSH  You am the greatest!  
SUNGLASSES IN CASE AT USC  for more info  Pick up Weekly Bulletin at  AND PUT YOUR CLASSIFIEDS IN  From me  
GAME IN STUDENT SECTION. TO  ROOMMATE WANTED:  call 232-8256  THE OBSERVER NOW. WISH  
CLAIM, STOP IN ANTHONY  Looking for female roommate for  Career & Placement Services  THAT SPECIAL SOMEONE A  To all the members of the men's  
TRAVEL, INC., IN LAFORTUNE.  2nd semester. Castle Point Apt.  MERRY CHRISTMAS BEFORE  basketball team who signed  
Can move in before break. Call  RAB IT: 1628 Portage for  for invitational interviews for the  DEC. 9, THE OBSERVER'S LAST  autographs after the Loyola game  
HELP!! IF YOU MISTAKINGLY  Deb at 239-7890 or 271-8124  1993-94 yr. 234-3831 or  first two weeks of the Spring  DAY OF PUBLICATION BEFORE  on Friday night:  
TOOK MY BROWN COVERED  273-0482.  semester-turn in resumes through  THE HOLIDAYS.  
WEBSTER'S NEW COLLEGIATE  ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE  THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10.  •••••HAPPY NEW YEAR......  Thanks. You made my little siste's  
DICTIONARY FROM THE LAFORTUNE MAC LAB ON THE  NEW 4 BDRM GRANGER HOME; 1 OR 2 NON-SMOKING FEMALES;  FOR SALE  WANTED:  Hey Pima.  day.  
NIGHT OF TUES., DEC. 1/WED.  FACULTY OR GRAD STUDENTS  One red-haired woman from 308  Get a clue and start writing or you  -Jenny Marten  
DEC 2 BETWEEN 1-3:30 AM,  ONLY; $350/MO + 1/2 UTIL OR  IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE:  Lewis to attend production of "Sex,  know what'll happen!! (Have you  
PLEASE RETURN IT!!  $600/MO + 1/2 UTIL; 277-2253,  $2 EACH.  Drugs, and Rock n' Roll" on Dec.  been good and practicing real  Hey Staph Rausch!  
BELIEVE IT OR NOT, IT HAS  LV MESSAGE.  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  9th in the Labtheatre, and perhaps  hard?) -Who loves ya baby?  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE AS I WAS  1530 WESTERN AVE., SB.  coffee afterwards? ...  I know this is a little early, but with  
AWARDED IT IN JR. HIGH FOR  Need ride to KC area, Iowa or Cent.  287-7550.  STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS  finals I know I will forget.  
ENGLISH. I NEED IT!! PLEASE  Mo, Xmas Brian 1078  Please forgive me.  COMING! Wednesday, December  
RETURN IT TO THE MAC LAB OR  9th at 8:00 pm in the Hesburgh  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY!!  
CALL CAIMIEN AT 283-1292. IT  NEED RIDE TO DC AREA ON FRI  CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for  I don't give up easily.  Library Auditorium. BE THERE!  
HAS MY NAME IN THE FRONT  OF EXAM WEEK. WILL PAY GAS,  sale!!! Call to see samples ... 273­ Peace and Love­ 
COVER!  TOLLS. JOE OR CHRIS 277-5733  2967.  S.S. (S.G.)  50,000.000  Marten  


page 14 The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Point guard Brooks Boyer played a key role in Friday's win. 

The Observer/Macy Hueckel Monty Williams (3) lunges for a loose ball as two Evansville players look on. 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

The Observer!Macy Hueckel Monty Williams grabs a rebound during the first half of Saturday's win. Malik Russell played center, point guard, and both forward spots for Notre Dame over the weekend. 
Monday, December 7, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Poll sets up final showdown 
(AP) -Alabama's victory over Florida in the SEC title game enabled it to finish No. 2 Sun­day in The Associated Press poll and put it in position to win the national title against top-ranked Miami. 
Sugar Bowl-bound Miami 

Awards, speeches given at banquet 
By Rich Kurz 
Associate Sports Editor 
The University of Notre Dame held its 73rd annual Football Banquet Friday, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
Vice-President of University Relations William Sexton, fa­ther of former Irish punter Jim Sexton, was the emcee for the event, held at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Society. The banquet was also an opportu­nity for the team to announce several awards. 
Senior tailback Reggie Brooks, who ranks third in Notre Dame history with 1 ,343 yards this season, was voted the most valuable player by his teammates. Brooks is still in contention for the Heisman Trophy and was nominated for the Doak Walker Award given to the top running back in the country. 
The team also presented the Nick Pietrosante Award for the fifth year. Named for the former Irish All-American fullback who died of cancer in 1988, it is presented to the individual who best exemplifies Pietrosante's courage, loyalty, dedication, and pride. 
Demetrius DuBose added his name to the list of former win­ners of the award, who include Tony Rice and Chris Zorich. The senior linebacker has led Notre Dame in tackles the past two seasons, finishing with 87 this season. 
Offensive linemen picked up a number of awards. Tackle Lindsay Knapp, a fifth-year se­nior enrolled in the MBA school, received the Lineman of 
Notre Dame Football Awards 
Reggie Brooks •MVP 
Demetrius DuBose 
•Nick Pietrosante Award 
Lindsey Knapp · 
•Offensive 
Uneman of the Year from the Moose Krause Chapter 

•Student 
Athlete of the Year from State Farm and Mutual broadcasting 


Tim Ruddy
•Top Student Athlete from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley 
The Observer/Ann~Marie conmdo 
the Year Award from the Moose Krause Chapter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. Knapp also the Student­Athlete of the Year Award from State Farm and the Mutual Broadcasting System. 
Tim Ruddy, a junior center, won the Student-Athlete Award from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. A mechanical engineering major, Ruddy holds a 3.81 grade-point average. 
Both Ruddy and Knapp were named to the GTE District V Academic All-American team and are now on the national ballot. 
A film of the season's many highlights was shown and the monogram winners were an­nounced for the season. Seven freshmen, 14 sophomores, 21 juniors and 21 seniors won monograms. Eleven seniors have monogrammed all four years while at Notre Dame. 
A noticeable absentee from 
the banquet was Irish secondary coach and assitant head coach Ron Cooper. 
Cooper was in Ypsilanti, Mich., interviewing for the vacant head-coaching spot at Eastern Michigan University. Cooper is expected to be offered the job. 
Coach Lou Holtz spoke about the season and some of his players, especially the seniors. 
"I think this is as fine a foot­ball team as I have ever been associated with over the last five weeks of the season," Holtz said. "Had we become the best earlier, we would certainly be first. 
"I'm anxious to see this foot­ball team play one more game." 
He also said he thought the Irish offense had "the finest backfield in the country" and 'Tve never seen a defensive line make as great an improvement as this one." 
Holtz saved a great deal of praise for senior quarterback Rick Mirer. 
"I think Rick Mirer will go down as one of the great quar­terbacks in Notre Dame history. If I was starting a (pro) franchise, the guy I'd want at quarterback is #3. 
"Here's a young man who passed up millions of dollars to come back to Notre Dame be­cause he made a commitment." 
Holtz finished his comments by relating what former Irish defensive backs Todd Lyght and Pat Terrell, both now with the Los Angeles Rams, told the team before the USC game. "You'll look back on this as the four greatest years of your life and the most influential." 
-



Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: The holiday gift you can really use. 
Tell your folks that more college students choose Macintosh than any other computer. They'd want you to be in good company. 
Ask for an Apple®Macintosh®computer this holiday season and 
join all of the students who've discovered that no matter what they do Macintosh helps them do it better and faster. That's because M~cintosh is so easy to use. And the thousands of available software applications work in asingle, consistent way. So once you've learned one you're well on your way to learning them all. The advantages of Macintosh don't end when school does. In fact, the majority of Fortune 1000 companies use Macintosh computers~ So ask your Apple Campus Reseller to help you choose which Macintosh to put at the top ofyour holiday gift list. . , 
Macintosh. It's more than apresent, 1t sa future. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Room 112 Math/Computer BuDding 
239-7477 
· rad •··· rAn 1 c t Inc MS DOS is aN'Oiqert'd trJdemark. and Windows a
© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple. the Apple logo and :'>iacintosh a~ regtstered t emar"s o ......p e ompu er. · • · ·-o-· trademark, of Microsoft Corporation. •Based on asurvey conducted by Computer Intelhgence. 1991. 
page 16 The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 
Cierzniak's fight gets boost 

South Bend-James J. Cierz-impeccable ... he said. ~They niak's etiort to garner national have integrity and are well­publicity for his self·descrlbed respected. . We are very "crusade" against the College comfortable being partners Football Hall of Fame received with NFF in this project.11 a boost Friday from an article The NFF has 87 chapters in the WaH Street Journal nationally representing 165 detailing his remonstrance. universities, the mayor added. 
"It certainly gives ussome "They are far from being 

. additional visibility~ It's v~y self-proclaimed in any sense~.. welcome... Cierzniak said·of he said. · the article, entitled "Is South The Journal article Bend Tackling . .· Whi'~ questio}led the seriousness of 
... Elf:'Ph~nt?".and Wdtt~.q ~y some of those. past efforts and veteran Journal reporter raised questions about. the Frederick C. Klein. · NFF fund-raising activities. 
Cierzniak earlier predicted Kernan also agreed 

the hall will becpme "the Thursday to ou~e the eity's . mother ofall w,hite elephants;? reasoqs for backing the hall · While the articht may have on anupcoming call-in show raised some questions about sponsored by radio station the credibility·ofofficials. {)f WAM.J., Cierzniak appeared on the ...•. Naticmal. ·.·. Footb().ll + the programieailier to give his ·Foundation•• wbicb overs~es ,, reaso~ for opposit)g the ijaJ1~ the college ball. such concerns · However. the mayor declined are not shared. by those an invitation to appear jointly 
• .backing the h~U~ Mayor with ' 6ierzniak o~u. <.,!,!!~ Jo$ep}). •· Kernan$4Jd. '" prograw.. .. . •;;:· ) .• .);: .. 
04Tl)e q-uality 9f tbe people This article wf!,s originally we've di;lalt· witb from the printed. in the Sol#h Bend 1!1­beginni'llg has been bune. 
were elated to be playing in the about a national playoff Cotton Bowl. because he won't be getting a Irish coach Lou Holtz likes the shot at Miami or Alabama. challenge. ''I'm not totally against the 
"We played A&M a few years playoffs now," Slocum said. "We ago (1988) in the Cotton Bowl are 12-0 and I voted us number and they beat us decisively (35-one in the coaches poll. I don't 10)," he said. "We'll do the best think anybody has we can with them." demonstrated it's better than 
It will be Notre Dame's sixth Texas A&M." Cotton Bowl appearance. The It will be the fifth Cotton Bowl Irish appeared in the game in for the Aggies since 1986. In 1970, breaking a 50-year hiatus that span they've defeated from post-season play. They lost Auburn and Notre Dame, and to Texas 21-17 in a game for lost to Ohio State and Florida the national title. State. 
A frustrated Slocum said he The Associated Press con­might be changing his mind tributed to this report. 
Do you want to help solve the problem of homelessness? 
Come listen to Jay Todd speak about Habitat for Humanity. 
Monday Dec. 7 at 7:30 p.m. CSC Auditorium 
with special guests
SLAUGHTER 
and 

~~J~<k)i
Michael Carte/lone Ted Nugent Jack Blades Tommy Shaw 
Wednesday, Jan. 6 7:30 Joyce ACC Center 
Tickets available ~~ all ~Outlets, Joyce ACC Box OffiCe, Kanna Records. 
Select LS Ayres Stores, Nightwinds and Hilltop Department Store 
Charge By Phone: 21 S.272-7979 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions 


Cotton 
continued from page 20 
favorites." 
Although he admitted the choice of the Irish would be controversial, Brock had no second thoughts. 

LasVega_s 
Copper 
"We put the coalition together to get No. 1 and No. 2 together, 

l ,~~-Nevada Washington St. ~ }'Nil\J vs. Bowling Green vs. Utah 
not No. 3 and No. 4," he said. =&JJ~=.;;:.= Las Vegas, Dec. 18 
"We have a strong matchup. We

Tucson, Ariz., Dec. 29 
--~--~~--~··-------········ ................ ;. .. . 
wanted to avoid a rematch." 
' 

Aloha Peach 
Florida State beat Texas A&M 
.,
=n. 

10-2 last season. ~ vs. Brigham Young vs. Mississippi State . Robert Smith, chairman of the 
~Kansas .J North Carolina 

-
Honolulu , Dec. 25 
~-Atlanta, Jan. 2 
Blockbuster 

Hall of Fame ~ PennState 
Boston College ~ vs. Stanford vs. Tennessee Ft. Lauderdale , Jan 1 Tampa, Fla., Jan. i
i 

········································ ················ ·t··· . ···················---····----···--­
Citrus~ Wake Forest ' ~1!~ Ohio St. vs. Oregon '!1~:, vs. Georgia
1 •• Shreveport, La., Dec. 31 I ....&.... Orlando, Fla., Jan. 1 
Cotton

-r·:~~:~smppl l ~-;:x~~~!~ame . 
-".... ~e~~~~-~-·--~~-~~.:~--~~-~:.~.1····· 
...................................~~~~~~!..~~~.: ..1.~ ..~...P.:.~.: .. Gator 

...~·· Fiesta 
_. ?JA'<ff
Florida a~ Syracuse vs. North Carolina State j ~~, vs. Colorado 

Jacksonville, Fla., Dec. 31 · Tempe, Ariz., Jan. 1 
Holiday 

Rose 
~ Hawaii 

Michigan~'!lffi vs. Illinois 
vs. Washington San Diego, Dec. 30 1 
Pasadena, Calif., Jan. 
.... j. 

Freedom l ; OrangeQCr..d§ Southern Cal i Nebraska~=-=• vs. Fresno State l vs. Florida State Miami, Jan. 1 
••••••••••••H••••••••o..-W••••••• 


Sugar Alabama vs. Miami 
El Paso, Texas, Dec.31 
j 

New Orleans, Jan. 1 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 

HAV! 
YOU 
S!!N 
THIS 
MAN? 

I Cotton Bowl. answered criticism of the Irish as the choice by saying, "We didn't have a national championship game." Florida State coach Bobby Bowden got a tip Friday that the Cotton Bowl had decided to let the Orange Bowl have the Seminoles. "I had thought we would be in the Cotton with 3 playing 4, but I was told Friday something might happen," Bowden said. "He wasn't sure what was happening, but I could sense it wasn't going to be us in the Cotton Bowl.." A&M athletic director John David Crow said there was still a chance the Aggies could win the national title if Miami and Alabama tied. "There are a lot of what-ifs and we'd rather play the high­est-ranked team possible, but we support the Cotton Bowl's decision," he said. Notre Dame (9-1-1) will lose about $1 million by being in the Cotton Bowl instead of playing Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. But Notre Dame athletic direc­tor Dick Rosenthal said the Irish 
! STANLEY H. KAPLAN 
Take Kaplan OrTake Your Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 



$1400 Scholarship for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
In cities of Alumni Clubs a I I over the co u n try 
INFORMATION ~1E:TING 
DEC. 8 
6:00 PM 
r 

at the Canter for Social Concerns 


------------------------------~ 

Monday, December 7, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Student bowl game tlcke~s -· .> .. _· b~ _ _ December 9:11 9 a.m.-5 P·lll~ at the JACCG4,!elO ticket windows. Notre 

ll·nlniH 

0S opponent willbe announc~ on December 6 .~d at 
the_ ~o~!.,and ticket pJ1ces·wHI••-•~-· ~'flounced.. ?:.:•1•;;)\{E: ; ic••· :?'':::=:=;:;~;~;·~;~::~~:= ---:;::r-:-::::: -·-_ ·-:'" :::::----:-~~:=::::::::·:=:-:~w~~j~~r;;;·::}\:.::: :__:-::w>:·-:: :· ::=~==;::;::·-:--:-:::;~:;_:••:~:,:_:::::::r: :;. : _-: :-::f~::::: ::, 
Last chance for lnterhall coaches must return -theft ucui•V'WJI Jenny Marten at the Observer qffice on the third floor ....,..wn.....,. today or your votes won~t·be counted. If you did 
lrffi~ei11e a ballot, pick one up at the Observer office~ 
.:r::::::. 

m . ­
The lU-ND men's basketball game will be broadcast live Noah Cooper and Tom Rineba~t()n Tuesday n.~~.~~·..!Ditlg
;l5p.m.· on 640AM. · Y+,,;,,····~.:w·· ···· ..:::;......·. 
Attention rowers anyone who bas not yet ornP.r~,a would like to sbould call Steve Murphy at 28 
::::r::~ 
··..•.t<:•.t:lMMWKl idr/{/. 

The Observer page 17 
Lineup swaping keys weekend wins 


By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
ROSEMONT, lL-Wins. Expe­rience. Chemistry. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team are looking for all three. The lrish opened up the regular season with a 52-50 win over Loyola and a starting lineup that was different from any this year. Actually, the starting lineups for three of the first four games this year have been different. 
Freshman Ryan Hoover started at point guard with se­nior Billy Taylor as the shooting 

The NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
welcomes you to an autograph session with 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
TRAVELS WITH 
TEIB*ED 
THEODORE ~t 
HESBURbH 
Join us for a delightful afternoon of reflection 
with Father Theodore M. Hesburgh as he shares 
his many wonderful memories ofhis travels with 
his long time friend and former Executive Vice 
President, Father Edmund P. Joyce. Known 
affectionately to many as "Ted & Ned". 
We are offering a 25% discowu on this book as 
well as all hardbound books during or Christmas 
Special! 

Tuesday, December 8, 2 -4p.m. 
The Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Open Mondav -Saturday 9-Sp.m. 
guard, Joe Ross as center and Malik Russell and Monty Williams as forwards. 
"We're searching for a com­bination," said lrish head coach John Macleod. "We had good flow early and then we started to struggle." 
Hoover got the nod for the point guard slot over Brooks Boyer, who was the projected starter in the preseason, and LaMarr Justice. who started against USA-Verich and the Australian National team. 
"[ thought Ryan played well in a starting role. I thought he rushed it a few times," said MacLeod. "Ryan had a very good ball game against Aus­tralia and he played well in practice. l felt he was deserving of it." 
MacLeod continued to exper­iment at the point against the Ramblers with 6'8" Russell checking in at the position near the end of the second half. MacLeod had said earlier that Russell would not be playing point at all this season, but changed his mind when Justice and Hoover started to struggle and Boyer was having difficul­ties. 
Nine lrish players notched significant playing time in the game and it looks like that trend will continue as the Irish basketball team searches for a winning combination. 
"We're probably going to do 
Photo Courtesy of Sports Information ... and Joe· Ross was out, Saturday 
that a lot this year (play nine or 
ten guys a game)." predicted 
MacLeod. "If we can develop a 
rhythm or a chemistry . we will 
stay with it." 
The experimentation contin­
ued in the win over Evansville 
on Sunday with Carl Cozen 
checking in at center after an 
injury to the Aces' regular 
center, Sasha Hupmann , put 
6'7" Andy Elkins in the middle. 
So far, MacLeod's method of 
choosing the starting line-ups 
based on matchups has proven 
successful for the undefeated 
Irish basketball team. 

Let The Observer help you send a Christmas wish to your friends. 
A Christmas ad this size costs only $20. 
Visit The Observer, 3'd floor LaFortune, for more details. 
Deadline for our Christmas issue: Today at 1:00 p.m. 

Where Big Mountain Skiing Just Got Bigger! Snowshoe has Expanded to Include the Silver Creek Ski Area Giving You More Runs ... More Fun. . .For Your Money! 
Students . .. Snowshoe's Winter Break Ski Package* gives you deep discounts on Lodging. skiing. group lessons. a "Welcome Aboard" bash along with mcny other 'Perks'! With savings up to 35%. this break is sure to fit your budget. 
January 3 thru 9, 1993 

This Semester Join Us for the East's Most Popular Winter Break! 
VIRGINE 
.::.·_. SR..~D!C~U( 

Reservations: (304) 572-5252 • Snow Report: (304) 572-4636 
' 
*Valid Student 10 Required For Package Benefits 
,_ 
"1' 


.r--------------------~----------·------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer Monday, December 7, 1992 


Yankees get Jim Abbott from Angels 
(AP) -Jim Abbott, the one­handed pitcher who overcame long odds to become a success­ful major leaguer, was traded from the California Angels to the New York Yankees on Sunday night. 
The 25-year-old left-hander was sought by the Yankees for months, and finally was sent to New York for a package that included infielder J.T. Snow, left­bander Jerry Nielsen and right­hander Russ Springer. 
Abbott was 7-15 with a 2.77 ERA last season for an Angels team that went 72-90. He pitched well, throwing seven complete games, but the Angels
didn't give him very much support, scoring just 2.6 runs per game. 
~· 
Women's hoop turns over game to Purdue 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
When you have as many turnovers as points, you're in trouble. 
Just ask the Notre Dame women's basketball team, a 7 4­41loser to No. 17 Purdue in Friday's home-opener. 
Purdue's suffocating defense forced the young Irish team into 41 turnovers, and kept them from mounting a serious offensive threat. 
"This game was an embar­rassment to Notre Dame bas­ketball," said dejected Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "There wasn't a lack of effort, but there was definitely a lack of execution." 
Both teams struggled early in the game, but Kay Tucker sparked a Purdue run with five points during a four minute stretch, giving the Boilermakers a 19-6lead. 
"The defense is always ahead of the offense at this point of the season," Purdue coach Lin Dunn. "Without as much prac­tice time (the NCAA pushed back the start of practice from October 15 to November 1) ev­erybody's out of sync." 
Purdue may have been a little out of sync, but Notre Dame 

Finals are comingf Finals are comingf 
Follow the Honor Code! ??'s, call Kami Benson X4704 or Kevin Schroeder X17SO 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
couldn't have been any colder if they had played the game out­side. The Irish hit just 6 of 22 field goals in the first half, and they faced a 30-16 deficit at the break. 
To open the second half, Pur­due's trapping press forced the Irish into five consecutive turnovers, and the Boilermak­ers made the most of it, scoring 10 straight points to open a 24­point lead that the Irish couldn't overcome. 
"We can't simulate that kind of pressure in practice," Mc­Graw said. "But we do work on it, believe it or not. A lot of it is mental. We make a lot of bad decisions with the ball and we're just not good enough to make some of the plays we try to make." 
Purdue made the most of a 
size advantage under the bas­
ket. Purdue's 6-4 center Stacy 
Lovelace and 6-2 forward Tricia 
Cullop combined for only 12 
points, but they held 6-3 Kristin 
Knapp and 6-0 Letitia Bowen to 
just two points apiece. 
"We were really trying to get the ball inside, we had some mismatches in there," Dinn said. "We tried to attack the post and get their forwards in foul trouble." 
Junior guard Sherri Orlosky picked up the offensive slack for the Irish, scoring all of her team high 10 points in the sec­ond-half, but it wasn't enough. 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 --'94 school year Call232 --8256 for info and scheduled showings 
·­


.------------------------------------------....., 

CELEBRATE THE LAST NIGHT OF THE SEMESTER 1992 Christmas Specials

No one.,....,.,..you tor the MCAT belt• than Kaplan. Ow MCA T prep cow.e 1.-chM you ••~~Cdr whllt the I_. coven and the t..t· taking ak.l.. JOU'II .....S to ecore your bNI. We otrw live c1..... home atudy not-, and audio I'MIIew. Plua, no one .._a-• more exterwlve MCAT ....aurce lbnny than Kaplan. 

must be 21

KAPLAN 
The ---·0the teet .,..uon. 

T9day 
II.


Monday, December 7, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 








by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· Admission $2. 
37 Level

t5 Neat and 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
wholesome 38 Fish trap 


..., 
-

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
WAlt£ UP, S\41JI IJP, M\X IJP, 1-\URR~ IJP... GET IJP... l\SI£N \JP... GOOr UP... 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 26 Road-map 52 Auctioneer's cry abbr. 
54 Peak t Listen 29 Toodle-oo at 55 F.D.R. dog5 Pindar Ascot 
specialties 58 Desert delight
31 Nashville is its 

9Taxi cap. 62 Puts a lid on t2 A Guthrie 32 Smell -(be 63 Litigant's 13 Force back suspicious) supporter, often 
t 5 Ice-cream 34 Fordham's 65 Pub drinks holder team 
66 French 16 Form of 36 Mock historian-critic: insincerity 39 In a stealthy 1823-92 t8Aoman way 67 Give forth goddess 42 Barrie's Pan 
68 Kind of meal personifytng the 43 Paradise 
moon . 69 What Simon 
44 Shipbuilder's does19 Commence-wood 70 What a judgement 45 Tear apart does20 Official records 

47 Chooses 2t Arthurian lady 
49 Marie or 
DOWN

22 Adages Jeanne: Abbr. 24 Floods 50 Dry gulch 
1 Angel topper 2The old sod 3 Swiss sight 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4American Beauties 5 Boston hockey 

17 French state 40 Pelagic bird 53 Hamlet's folks 
hero 23 Distort 41 "...-thewild 56 Some votes
6 Lay waste 25 Mexican coin blue yonder" 57 Singer Horne
7 Heroic 26 Scrape 46 Put off 59 Trucker's rig 
8 Splinter group 27 Faithful 48 Kind of machine 60 "Lord,-1?":
9 Check attendance 
28 Hearing aid of 50 Cameroon Matt. 26:22 export 61 Fa~~anes
10Laurieor yore 
30 Chemist's 

Oakley 51 City in Fla. 64 Electees 
combinert 1 Necklace or 33 Like tundras 

rosary 

Get answers to any three clues
35 Avoids contact14 Part of l.c.d. 



Sports
page 20 
Monday, December 7, 1992 

JASON KELLY 
Match Point 

College football's injustice shines at season's end 
College football has never been known for its virtue and the members of the Bowl Coalition are making sure that never changes. 
The Cotton Bowl gave Notre Dame quite a Christmas gift, but they shattered the coalition's credibility in the process. The fifth-ranked Irish were given a January 1 date with No. 4 Texas A&M, upsetting coalition officials who wanted No. 3 Florida State. 
The coalition is designed to create the best bowl matchups, based on the Associated Press rankings. Despite urgings from the coalition and from Texas A&M to invite florida State, the Cotton Bowl went for the television ratings and invited Notre Dame. 
Florida State has to settle for the Orange Bowl against Nebraska, where they will make more money, but the extra $1.2 million won't make the Cornhuskers a worthy opponent. 
One coalition official called it "disastrous to our credibility." 
In fact, without the coalition the bowl picture would be exactly the same. Miami and Alabama would still be
.. 
playing for the national championship in the Sugar Bowl and the coalition obviously didn't have enough influence to persuade the Cotton Bowl's choice. 
Did the coalition do anything to improve the bowls or exploit the faults of the old system? 
Ask Florida State. 

Reggie Brooks is no stranger to college football's injustice. 
Playing in the shadow of Rick Mirer and Jerome Bettis, Brooks became the first 1,000 yard rusher in the Lou Holtz era. 
Even when his rushing stats were less than outstanding, Brooks proved to be an invaluable part of the team. His bone-jarring touchdown run against Michigan and his game winning catch against Penn State are the stuff of legends. But despite his unequalled stats (his eight yards per carry is at least one yard more than his closest competition) and his unparalleled heart, Brooks is not a serious contender for post-season awards. 
He was a finalist for the Doak Walker Award, given to the best running back in the country, but Georgia's Garrison Hearst toQk the honors. 
And Brooks wasn't even a finalist for the Maxwell Award, which is supposedly given to the best college player in the country. That one went to Miami's overrated quarterback Gino Toretta, who has padded his stats against weak competition, and faltered against the nation's top teams. 
Brooks' slim chances for the Heisman Trophy appear even more slim after seeing his sub-par competition take home the awards that he deserves. 
..... 
Do the hyped post-season awards really represent the best players in college football, or do they represent the best media relations departments? 
Ask Reggie Brooks. 


Cotton picks Irish over FSU 
By MIKE SCRUDATO "We wanted to play the highest-ranked Sports Editor team possible and I'm disappointed in that regard," Texas A&M coach R.C. 
Editor's Note: The Observer will contain Slocum said Sunday. an eight-page Cotton Bowl supplement He wanted third-ranked Florida State on Wednesday. as the Aggies' New Year's Day opponent. 
The speculation is over, the Irish are In the first year of a long term going to Dallas to play the undefeated agreement with NBC, the Cotton Bowl and fourth-ranked Texas A&M Aggies. disdained a possible 3-4 matchup and 
chose a team with a strong national
• Annual football banquet held/ page15 
following. "We're excited to be going (to the Though Notre Dame's home games are Cotton Bowl)," Notre Dame televised exclusively by NBC, Jim Brock, chairman of the Cotton Bowl's selection
safety/running back Jeff Burris said. committee, denied that the network
"We've been waiting for a long time, and called the shots. 
we just wanted to know where we were "Anytime Notre Dame is in a football
going. We wanted to play a team that game you have to take the TV rankings
was ranked higher (than us). This gives us a chance to move up in the polls." into account, but NBC didn't have anything to do with the selection," he
Though the Cotton Bowl and the Irish said. "Notre Dame is one of our
got what they wanted, the same can't be Photo Cour18ay of Spons lnfomlation said for the host team from the see COTTON/page 16 Coach R.C Slocum and the Aggies will be Southwest Conference. Notre Dame's opponent on NewYear's Day. 
Surprise! Men's hoops unbeaten 
By Mike Scrudato Sports Editor 
John MacLeod and the Irish men's basketball team are at it again­exceeding expectations. 
Notre Dame opened its season with two wins over the weekend. On Friday, the Irish won ugly over Loyola at the Rosemont Horizon 52-50, and yesterday, came back to upset an impressive Evansville team 76-70, at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish's season opener, as MacLeod put it, "was not an offensive beauty" The two teams combined for 50 
• Lineup switches key win/ page 17 
turnovers, and neither team could find any rhythm on offense. 
The Irish led for most of the game, but the Ramblers mounted a second-half comeback to take a 47-46 lead on Ahmed Aboul-Foutouh's layup with 5:24 left. Following a turnover by Ryan Hoover, Kerman Ali, who led all scorers with 21 points, sunk two free throws to give Loyola its largest edge, 49-46, with 
4:36 remaining. 
The Irish cut the lead to one, when Malik Russell fed Monty Williams for a layup, and then took a 50-49 lead on Billy Taylor's two foul shots with 3:13 left. The Ramblers tied it on their ensuing possession when Ali connected on one of two from the charity stripe. 
Neither team scored on its next three trips down the floor, but Brooks Boyer broke the scoring drought by sinking one of two foul shots with 1:20 remaining. Williams, who led the Irish with 19 points and nine rebounds, pulled down the rebound of Boyer's miss to give the Irish a chance to seal the win. Russell 
see WINS/page 13 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Taylor added 17 and 16, respectively. Associate Sports Editor Even Brooks Boyer, known more for his vocal leadership than his No one is ready to accuse any scoring punch, hit two key shots late. member of John MacLeod's His three-pointer with 8:55 left 
basketball team of being a star. electrified the new Notre Dame 
Sure, Ryan Hoover popped for 21 student section, and a slick drive and points in his second collegiate game, layup two minutes later let Irish fans and Monty Williams has quickly re­forget Elmer Bennett for a moment. 
established himself as a major "I just wanted to come in and problem for opposing defenses. But contribute," said Boyer, who finished the modus operandi for the 1992-93 with seven points. "It was really a 




';;~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ Irish is team p1ay, and that's what team effort."INSIDE SPORTS the group used to down Evansville The team effort was felt on the-yesterday afternoon. defensive end, as well. Evansville's 
Notre Dame, inspired by tough Parrish Casebier blistered the Irish play by several different players on for 41 points late last season, but
IIWomen•s hoop falls see page 18 

both ends of the floor, came back was held to 21 on 5-17 shooting. Carl from a seven -point halftime deficit Cozen and Malik Russell applied the 
• Hall of Fame controversy 
and defeated Evansville, 76-70. defensive pressure on the Aces' During the second half, offensive scorer.
see page 16 contributors appeared from "We just tried to limit the number nowhere. Hoover, scored 13 of his 21 
of shots he got," said MacLeod. "He 
t

-=tnal regular season football poll 
points in the half, leading the charge see page 15 
see TEAM/page 13 The Observer!Scott MElndenhall 
on the Aces. while Williams and Billy 
Ryan Hoover played a vital role in Saturday's win. 




