
TUESDAY . MARCH 3, 1992
VOL XXIV NO 1 07 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ­
Controversy emerges over SUB concert approval procedures 
By PETER LOFTUS Assistant News Editor 
The Notre Dame Student Union Board (SUB) may have sidestepped proper procedures in obtaining approval to spon­sor two recent concerts which resulted in a combined loss of over $50,000 in student money, according to student govern­ment officers. 
Student Body Treasurer John Coffey. said that SUB commis­sioners did not obtain Student Senate approval, as required by Student Body Constitution, be­fore sending invitations-"bids"-to agents for rock acts The Cult and Lenny Kravitz, and comedian Howie Mandel. 
The Cult/Lenny Kravitz per­formed at the J.A.C.C. on Feb. 

Faculty senate 
25 and Howie Mandel per­formed Sunday at Stepan Cen­ter. 
When the commissioners did consult Student Body President Joseph Blanco and Vice Presi­dent Dave Florenzo last semester about sponsoring the concert, they "grossly under­stated" the estimates of the costs involved in bringing the artists to the J.A.C.C., according to Coffey and other officers. 
The estimates given before Christmas vacation were "extremely lower" than those submitted to the Student Senate at its Jan. 20 meeting, said Blanco. Coffey agreed that the difference was substantial. 
Some student government of~· fleers estimated the conflicting figures to have differed by as much as $80,000. 


"SUB has been involved in some quirky business," said Coffey. 
SUB controller Chris Weis­mantel said he believed SUB "showed everything" when SUB presented its cost estimates to Blanco and Florenzo in Decem­ber. He added that he believed that Florenzo knew "what was involved" in sponsoring a con­cert since Florenzo has past SUB experience. 
SUB Board Manager Lynn Ramsay defended SUB, saying it obtained necessary approval from Blanco and Florenzo for the concerts. She also said most of SUB's programs are designed to sustain a financial loss, in order to give students discount prices for "quality" entertainment. 
At yesterday's Senate meet-
The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz 

The need for better communication among the three governing bodies of the University was discussed at the Facult Senate Meetin last evenin . 

NO receives over $46 M in contributions 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame received cash contributions of more than $46 million in the fiscal year 1991, according to the Department of Develop­ment's annual report. 
This amount includes record levels in the University's Annual Fund, Sorin Society, and matching-gifts program. 
Daniel Reagan, director of development, said that this year's fundraising programs were quite successful. "We're fortunate that we can count on such strong assistance from the alumni," he said. 
Most of the donations, Reagan said, is already earmarked for specific programs, including scholarships and fellowships. 
"Unrestricted" contributions, which are not set aside for a particular program, will be used for programs such as the current upgrading. of the Uni­versity's computer systems, Reagan said. Scholarships, building renovations, and new construction will also be funded with these donations, he said. 
The Annual Fund, in its 48th year, set records in both amount raised ($11.2 million) and number of contributors (48,044). 
The Sorin Society, a part of the Annual Fund in which members contribute at least $1,000 annually in unrestricted gifts, raised $4.8 million and enrolled 600 new members in 1991. 
ND's matching-gifts program, in which corporations match the contributions of their employees, raised $2.45 million, making it the third­most successful such program among U.S. colleges and uni­versities. 
The $46 million total also in­cludes contributions made through the Strategic Moment campaign, which ended in De­cember 1990. The program, through which people made pledges to be paid to the Uni­versity in three-to-five years, raised $464 million in pledges. 
Since the campaign's goal was $300 million, the program was "very successful," Reagan said. 
Planned giving commitments (including bequests, trusts, in­surance and other estate gifts) totaled $15.3 million in fiscal year 1991. The Badin Guild, a society for people who include the University in their estates, now has 385 members with planned gifts totaling more than $94 million. 

Foundation and corporate support totaled $19.2 million, a four percent increase over 1990 and second only to the $20.8 milllon raised in 1988. 
ing, Ramsay, a junior, was passed up for a second term as Board Mariager in favor of Pat McCarthy, the current Senate Parliamentarian. Members of the Selection Committee said that leadership counted more than experience irr their deci­sion to select McCarthy, who has no SUB experience. 
The Cult/Lenny Kravitz con­cert attracted only 2,066 tickets priced at $12 for students and $18 for the general public. About 900 students attended the concert. The J.A.C.C. has a concert capacity of over 7 ,000. 
SUB lost $32,600 on The Cult concert, and about $20,000 on Howie Mandel, according to Joe Cassidy, director of Student Ac­tivities. About 800 people, mostly students, attended the Mandel concert, with student tickets priced at $10 each. 
Florenzo and Coffey ques­tioned whether SUB followed proper procedures. 
According to Florenzo, Ram­say approached Blanco and Florenzo during the final week of last semester, concerning the planned concerts. 
The estimated costs in bring­ing the artists to ND that were presented to Blanco and Flo­renzo were "gros.sly under­stated," said Coffey. Blanco and Florenzo gave Ramsay the green light to send out the bids. 
Over Christmas vacation, the SUB commissioners sent out bids to the artists' agents. Ac­cording to Coffey, if an agent accepts a bid, it is, "for the most part, a legal contractual 
see SUB I page 4 



Student Senate holds elections for 1992-93 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
Elections for the Student Senate were held in four districts yesterday, but the victors in these races Will not be known until Wednesday. 
In the District 1 (South Quad) election, Morrissey Hall freshman Tyler Farmer is the unofficial winner over Alumni Hall junior Dave Certo. How­ever, Certo is challenging the result, claiming that Farmer violated campaign rules. 
Elections commissioner Travis Reindl said the ethics committee of the Judicial Board will meet on Wednesday to determine whether Farmer committed any violations. Farmer may have to forfeit his victory if he is found guilty, Reindl said. 
Neither Reindl nor the two candidates would comment on the specific nature of Certo's allegations. 
In last night's balloting; Farmer won 578 votes (59.0 percent of the vote) to Certo's 363 votes (37.0 percent). Write-in candidates took 39 votes (4.0 percent) 
The other three elections contested last night will be decided in run-offs on Wednesday, since none of the participants received a majority vote. 
In the District 4 (Mod Quad) race, Grace Hall freshman David Baker took 311 votes 
(49.4 percent), compared to the 299 votes (47.5 percent) won by Flanner Hall junior Jacob Frost. The existence of 20 write in votes (3.2 percent), forced the election to go to a run-off. 
The District 3 (North Quad) 
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

SUB institutes changes 
By ELIZABETH COSTELLO News Writer 
A complete overhaul of the Constitution included a restruc­turing of the Student Union Board Selection Committee, ac­cording to Joseph Blanco, stu­dent body president. 
The Selection Committee pre­viously consisted of two non­returning members of the SUB, the outgoing SUB board man­ager, the student body president and the outgoing Hall President's Council (HPC) chairperson. In addition, an assistant director of Student Activities served as a non-vot­ing member, the former Official Constitution stated. 
The Selection Committee pro­cedure needed to be revised so that if the board manager wishes to serve another year, that person would not be on the Selection Committee, Blanco said. 
The SUB Selection Committee is now composed of: 
• a non-returning Executive Board member; 
• 
a non-returning SUB mem­ber which all SUB members nominate; 

• 
the outgoing board man­ager; 


• one outgoing HPC chairper­son; 
• 
the outgoing student body president; and 

• 
a non-voting member, who is the assistant director of Student Activities. 


In the case of a board man­ager who wishes to return the following year, the student body treasurer will vote in that person's place, according to Blanco. The new Constitution states that "the Manager may not sit on the Student Union Board Selection Committee for their position." 
The new Official Constitution retains that the SUB Executive Council selects the commission­ers and assistant commission­ers for each Commission. In addition, the choices are subject t.o approval by a majority vote of the Student Senate. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Media shows, 
not fixes 


problems 

In the next few days. 
you'll see some Inside 
Columns from Observer 
editors who. like me, are 
in their last week on the 
"ob. Odds are they'll be 
sentimental and sappy. 
But you won't get any of 
that from me because 1) John O'Brien 
I'm too much of a jerk to Accent Editor 
get sappy and 2) my last 
Accent column isn't until 
lnstead, I'd like to take a little of what I've 
learned in the classroom and share it with you. 
One of my professors, Robert Schmuhl from the Department of American Studies, has 


pointed out that, in reality, the media can't force 
anyone to do anything. 
For instance, if a politician is corrupt, the 
media can't kick him out of office. They can, 
however, tell people what to think about. Maybe 
then the public will take the steps necessary to 
remedy the situation. 
So to illustrate Schmuhl's point, here are a 
few things to think about. 
t) HPC is still eating dinners. Yeah, this is an old subject that's been rehashed, but what has been changed? Sure, we've heard how hall councils are now voting to approve the dinners, but who makes up these hall councils? 
If I can remember correctly from my on­campus days, hall councils were made up of t) the hall president's roommates, 2) the hall vice president's roommates and 3) their friends. 
Who's going to tell their friends they can't have dinner on the dorm? 
2) The University's still ignoring the case o Father James Burtchaell. It's been almost four months since the scandal broke and still not a peep from under the Dome about it. 
It makes you wonder: How many other Father Burtchaells are there out there? 
3) Still no word from William Hickey. But there has been one development since a certain obnoxious columnist told the story of the bureaucracy that goes into covering the President of Saint Mary's College. 
I was told by a member of the local media that Hickey has told several people that the reporter who wrote the profile of him lied to him about how she was using the story. 
My question is: Who's the real liar? 
4) The Church of Loretto is still being remodeled. The students of Saint Mary's don't like it. Local art lovers don't like it. Even some Sisters of the Holy Cross don't like it. 
The question is: Who's bright idea were the changes in the first place? 
5) Pangborn is probably going to be a women's dorm next year. As hard as everyone is working to make it coed, the likelihood of the University changing its mind is about as likely as an underage drinker getting turned down at Bridget's. 
Once again, the voice of the students will be ignored. 
Unfortunately, there's no more room for any more pleasant thoughts. I'll be out of here in three months, so most of this stuff means very little to me. Does it mean anything to you? If it does, do something about it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
Accent: News: Barb Moran Lauren Aquino Laurie Sessa Alicia Reale Cheryl Moser Production: Viewpoint: Melissa Cusack Barb Moran Cynthia Ehrhardt Guy Loranger Systems: Cheryl Moser The Czar Illustrator: Pat Barth Lisa Schmitt The Prince Sports: 
George 
Dohrmann 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992
The Observer 
FORECAST: 
Mostly cloudy and 
· cooler today with Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW Via Associated Pf9ss 
· 
highs in the lower 50s. Cloudy and warmer Wednes­day. Highs in the upper 50s. TEMPERATURES: 
City Albuquerque Atlanta Austin Barcelona Baton Rouge Bismarck 
Boise Boston Clave land Columbia, S.C. Columbus Denver Des Moines Harrisburg Helena Helsinki Honolulu 
Indianapolis Lincoln Madison Mpls-St. Paul Nashville Sacramento Salt Lake City South Bend Tallahassaa 
H l 
63 37 
71 43 
75 63 
57 45 
79 48 70 27 66 40 40 19 61 36 73 34 61 28 65 36 77 39 
51 33 60 29 37 30 84 68 
66 29 81 39 61 29 58 35 
68 31 66 53 63 44 
68 42 64 54 82 46 
62 40 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Crisis ~ves carnival somber tone 
Russian oil price controls to be lifted 
•MOSCOW -In the latest of Russia's painful eco­nomic reforms, the govemment will lift domestic price controls on oil and oil products next month and impose a 50 percent tax on them, an official said today. The moves are aimed at speeding Russia's entry into the In­ternational Monetary Fund. Membership in the IMF will determine Russia's creditworthiness for international loans and investment. The IMF wanted Russia to raise its oil prices by 10 to 15 times in order to increase government revenues, helping reduce the budget 
OF INTEREST 
•WSND-FM 
is currently training people for announcing positions. If you are interested contact Cathy Warrick at 239-7342. 

•Philippine 
Club elections for next year's officers will be held tonight in the LaFortune TV Lounge at 7 p.m. All members please attend. 


IIJuniors can view and order JPW pictures tonight from 7 to 11 p.m. in room 108 LaFortune. The advertisements did not have the time included. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES . NYSE INDEX _n_ 203,139,300 228.21 v .54 ~a.-.._S&P COMPOSITE 412.70 • 1.16 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,267.67 ..0 1.78 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD .(} $ 1.60 to $351.40/oz. 
SILVER {lr 1.4¢ to $4.114/oz. 

deficit, increase the value of the ruble and rein in infla­tion. The ITAR-Tass news agency, quoting unidentified sources, said under the plan, a ton of crude oil that sold for 350 rubles at the beginning of the year would go up to 2,000 to 2,500 rubles, excluding the tax, when prices were freed on April 15. One dollar is worth about 75 rubles at the floating exchange rate. 


NATIONAL 

Jury deliberates in doctor's trial 
•ALEXANDRIA, 
Va.-A federal jury enters its second day of deliberations in the fraud and perjury trial of a fertility doctor accused of lying while using his own sperm to artificially inseminate patients. Dr. Cecil Jacobson, who faces 52 counts of fraud and perjury, also is accused of using hormone injections to trick women into believing they were pregnant when they were not. Jacobson admitted on the witness stand that he occasionally used his own sperm for artificial insemination when other donors were not available. But his attorney insisted there is no law against a doctor donating sperm to his patients. Prosecution witnesses said Jacobson promised them the donor would be a medical or seminary student and would match their husbands' physical characteristics and sometimes even religion. The prosecution contends Jacobson broke his promises and thus is liable for fraud. If convicted on all counts, Jacobson would face up to 280 years in prison and $500,000 in fines. 

•seniors 
interested in teaching, social service oppor­tunities, or working with children, come to the esc for more information. Holy Cross Associates deadline is March 20. Call Mary Ann Roemer at 239-5293. 

•Father 
Graham McDonnell of the Good Shepherd Movement will be at the CSC today from 9:30 a.m.-t p.m. to speak to seniors interested in volunteer work. The program involves teaching English conversation in the Orient. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1875: Georges Bizet's opera "Carmen" premiered in Paris. 

•In 
1879: Belva Ann Bennett Lockwood became the first woman to be admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court. 

• 
In 1885: The U.S. Post Office began offering special de­livery for first-class mail. 

• 
In 1887: Anne Mansfield Sullivan arrived at the Alabama home of Capt. and Mrs. Arthur Keller to become the teacher of their blind and deaf 6-year-old daughter, Helen. 

•In 
1974: Nearly 350 people died when a Turkish Airlines DC-1 0 crashed shortly after takeoff from Orly Airport in Paris. 


Tuesday, March 3, 1992 The Observer page 3 

Senate approves 1992-93 nominatations 
· By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
Student Senate approved the 
two nominations for 1992-93 
Student Union Board (SUB) 
Executive Board positions, and 
debated the fate of student 
businesses under the proposed 
Student Body Constitution at a 
meeting last night. 
Senate Parliamentarian 
Patrick McCarthy was approved 
as next year's board manager, 
replacing Lynn Ramsey. Matt 
Bomberger, AnTostal committee 
head, was selected director of 
programming. He will replace 
Beth Wittman. 
The two were nominated by 
the SUB Selection Committee, 
consisting of Student Body 
President Joseph Blanco, Trea­
surer John Coffey, HPC Co-Chair 
Charlie James, Heather Burns, 
SUB director of marketing, and 
Wittman. The approval of the 
Senate was required to appoint 
the pair. 
Senator David Certo said that he was opposed to the selection of McCarthy over Ramsey. He pointed out that it is dangerous to bring a person with no SUB experience into such an impor­tant position. 
James, however, said that the issue was one of leadership rather than experience. Those on the selection committee had dealt with Ramsey in the past and were concerned about her failure. to abide by some Senate rules. He also defended the nomination of Bomberger for director of programming. 
McCarthy was approved by a vote of 11-0, with four absten­tions, including Certo and Stu­dent Body President-elect Greg Butrus. Bomberger was ap­proved unanimously, with two abstentions. 
In other business: 
• Senators tabled debate on the proposed Student Body Constitution after discussing a clause calling for the Student Business Board to be replaced by an associate treasurer and three assistant treasurers. 

Kevin Roxas, HPC co-chair and manager of ND Video, proposed an amendment that would keep the current Student Business Board in the proposed Constitution. The amendment was defeated by a one-vote margin. 
The new system included in the proposed Constitution would create an associate trea­surer to oversee Adworks, Irish Gardens and ND Video, the three student-run businesses. Each of the assistants would also be responsible for one of the three businesses. These four individuals and three stu­dent government representa­tives would compose a business council with which the busi­nesses would work. 
Coffey pointed out that the new system would allow busi­nesses the same kind of per­sonal attention afforded by the business board. In addition, the new system would increase ac­countability between Senate and the businesses. 
Opponents of the proposal, including Cesar Capella, general manager of the Student Business Board, said that placing the business under the authority of the treasurer's office would decrease the availability of assistance for the business, however. Others said that the board worked well with the businesses to solve problems and provide support. 
• Senate unanimously passed a resolution responding to the Library Task Force on Food and Drink. The resolution said that a policy limiting food and drink in campus libraries is vague and lacks ~vidence to back up its policy. 
Senate requested that the li­brary to "specify which types of food and drink are most prob­lematic and provide evidence" and to "place receptacles for recyclable material" in the li­brary. 
Faculty Senate discusses communication problems 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
The need for better communi­cation among the three govern­ing bodies of the University was emphasized at the Faculty Sen­ate Meeting held last evening. 
Members of the Senate dis­cussed methods of establishing better relations among mem­hers of the administration, the Board of Trustees, and the fac­ulty. 
A faculty forum for the entire faculty and research facility was proposed by two members who wished to address the issue of relationships between administrators and faculty members. According to the members, such a forum would provide for consultation be­regarding decisions made by tween administrators and fac­the Board of Trustees. ulty members on important de-Annual elections were also cisions. -initiated at the meeting, as 

In addition, members dis­nominations were made for the cussed how to establish better Judicial Review Board, the communication between mem­Campus Life Council, the Aca­bers of the Board of Trustees demic and Faculty Affairs and the Academic Council of the Committee of the Board of Faculty Senate. They focused Trustees, and the Traffic and on the need for faculty input Appeals Board. 
If you see news happening, call the OBSERVERI 239-5303. 
*~***************************1 
*  *  
~  The Old World Meets the New 1492-1992  ~  
*  * 
MAPS AND THE COLUMBIAN ENCOUNTER  
*  *  
:*  A Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Exhibit  ~ *  
*  March 3-April 4, O'Shaughnessy Galleries East  * 
in the Snite Museum  
*  *  


Discription of BOG jobs may change 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Discussion about change in the Board of Governance's (BOG) job descriptions domi­nated the board's meeting Monday, according to Student Body President Maureen Lowry. 
Lowry said that five to seven board members proposed changes to the board's consti­tution because some of the offi­cial job descriptions have come to differ from the actual jobs performed. 
"In our Constitution, everyone has a job description," she said. "We want to be able to expand more on the jobs." 
In addition to the change dis­cussion, the board voted to al­locate $520 to the campus SURV organization, Lowry said. The money will be used to distribute fliers to explain the organization to incoming stu­dents, she said. 
The Board also voted to invite Deborah Norville to speak in April. BOG will sponsor one half of this event, Lowry said. 
In addition to approving these proposals, BOG also proposed changes in the library to be approved after spring break, Lowry said. BOG proposed that the after-hours study lounge be made coed and that a quiet study area where refreshments are allowed be established, she said. 
Wish Brian Dewan 
Happy Birthday 
now... 'cause he'll be in Texas for Spring Thaw 
on March 8th
* with an opening lecture *a.-----------IINI.,._INII,_MII_,W~M 
* \)\} C®ilQllr.ml})Qll~ ~IIDcDl IP~~~&Ir~ilil&~ * ~ Ar.m~rril~~ ffi~cDlil~~®w~rr~cDI \)\) ~ : !});, IBJ~IrTDl~l])l]} IBJ~llil~Ir : 
* Professor of Romance Languages, * * Queens College and CUNY * * at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, March 18 * * in the Auditorium of the *
* Hesburgh Center for International Studies * * Noon talk by Diana Matthias of the Snite Museum *
* at 12:10 p.m. on Tuesday, March 31st, in the exhibit gallery 
* 

* Sponsored by the: 
* * Department of R.oma.nce Lanc:JU.O.c:JeS a.nd: Lt.tera.tu.res * * Snite Museum * * * 
****************************~ 

The Observer 

page 4 Tuesday, March 3, 1992 

Saint Mary's room deposit deadline to be extended 
By Amy Bennett 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's room deposit deadline will be extended to March 6, and the room pick lottery will be extended to the week of Monday, March 23, ac­cording to Mary Kelleher, di­rector of residence life and housing at Saint Mary's. 
The reason for these exten­sions is the delayed release of a letter to students and parents from William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College, regard­ing financial aid next year. The letter states that students choosing to live on-campus will receive more aid than those liv­ing off-campus. 
"The College's award process gives preference to students choosing to reside on campus," the letter explains. "This pref­erence reflects both our firm commitment to the residential experience as well as the fact that we do not use institutional funds to help subsidize off­campus housing costs." 
Kelleher said the extensions were made to allow students to have all the information avail-
SUB 
continued from page 1 
obligation" to follow through 
with plans for a concert. 
"You must accept if they ac­cept," said Coffey. All agents involved accepted SUB's bids to come to campus. 
At the first Senate meeting of this semester, on Jan. 20, the SUB commissioners informed the Senate that their bids had already been accepted by the agents for The Cult, Lenny Kravitz and Howie Mandel. The Senate gave approval, but SUB's actions were largely ir­reversible. 
"The Senate approved, but they really had no choice," said Florenzo. 
"Our hands were tied," said Coffey, who doubted that the Senate would have approved of the concerts if they had known about the bids before they were sent out. "I'm pretty upset that the process was circumvented," he said. 
Cassidy said that in January he expressed his concern about the concerts' financial situation to several of the officers in­volved in the concert. 
"I thought it was going to be a financial loser," he said. 
Cassidy said he advised the commissioners to try to find a way out of the concert deals. After the deals were· finalized, Cassidy advised the commis­sioners on two points: 
•To 
do whatever possible to promote the shows in order to minimize a loss; and 

•To 
identify what units of student government would cover the losses. 


Your 
Opinion 
Counts. 
Vote in 

Campus Elections. 
able before deciding whether to 
move off-campus. Currently 30 
percent of the Saint Mary's se­
nior class lives off-campus. 

A separate letter issued to 
students supplying new room 
selection dates confirms that 
McCandless Hall will be in· an 
experimental stage next year. 
The hall will be equipped with a 
card entry system and residents 
will be on an "honor system" 
similar to Augusta Hall and 
Regina South for male visita­
tion. 

Kelleher said the decision to 
change McCandless was a reac­
tion to a Residence Hall Associ­
ation survey last semester, in 
which Saint Mary's students 
expressed the desire to have an 
honor system. Due to its loca­
tion and lack of tunnels con­
necting it to other residence 
halls, Kelleher says McCandless 
provides "a good opportunity to 
try something new." 

Although the goal of the changes in McCandless is to give juniors and seniors an al­ternative to off-campus hous­ing, Kelleher says McCandless will not be restricted to older students. 
Another problem mvolved m the Cult/Lenny Kravitz concert was that the act had performed in nearby Merriville, In., on Feb. 24, the night before the 
J.A.C.C. concert. Merriville is only an hour's drive west of NO, and that concert probably siphoned off general public fans who might otherwise have attended the J.A.C.C. concert. 
In SUB's defense Ramsay said, "It is the task of SUB to put on quality events at a discount to students." 
Weismantel agreed, saying SUB's function is to "subsidize" programs in order to give stu­dents a cheaper price for enter­tainment. 
Coffey was disappointed with SUB for additional reasons: 
•SUB 
sponsored concerts in­volving acts which he felt pos­sessed only modest popularity with students. "I had never even heard of the Cult or Lenny Kravitz," said Coffey; 

•SUB 
scheduled the two con­certs within 6 days of each other, in the two weeks before spring break, a time when most students are concerned with studying for midterms and sav­ing cash for spring break. 


Ramsay defended SUB's deci­sion to invite The Cult and Lenny Kravitz, claiming that those acts were among the top choices on a student survey last semester. 
Weismantel said the $50,000 loss figure didn't take into ac­count the fact that each SUB committee, including the ones that organized the concerts, has a beginning operating balance with which to finance such 
Recycle 
Fqther of the Bride PG 
Dolly 4:45,7:15,9:15 
Rqd!o Flyer PG-13 
Dolly 4:3D, 7:00, 9:30 
Wayne's World PG-13 
Dolly 5:DD, 7:30, 9:45 

Hunter,;soon to get trial date 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 

A Notre Dame student who assaulted another student in­side Bridget McGuire's Filling Station on Jan. 18 was charged with crhttinal recklessness and will go to court Friday to get a trial date, according to Prosecuter Michael Barnes' office. 
Billy Huntei. a wrestler for Notre Dame, was charged with the Class-D felony Feb. 25 at 
Elections 

continued from page 1 
will pit Stanford Hall 
sophomore Alan Nicgorski 
against Keenan Hall sophomore 

Tim Callahan. Last night, 
Nicgorski finished with 346 

votes (36.0 percent), while 
Callahan took 333 votes (34. 7 
percent). 
Two Cavanaugh Hall 

freshmen failed to make the 
District 3 run-off. John 
Ruskusky finished third with 
143 votes (14.9 percent), while 
Andrew DeLuca came in fourth 
enterprrses as concerts. 
The SUB music committee, which sponsored The Cult con­cert, has a beginning budget of about $15,000, according to Weismantel. The SUB campus entertainment committee, which sponsored the Mandel concert, has a beginning budget of$7,000. 
The committee budgets can be used to bring the actual loss involved in both concerts closer to $30,000. 
SUB may have violated the the following student constitu­tion by-laws: 
•No 
club or organization may enter into a legal contract greater than $5,000 without the approval of the Budget Committee, and 

•In 
the event that approval is needed of the Budget Commit­tee while school is not in ses­sion, the club seeking approval must notify the Student Body Treasurer. At such time, the Treasurer must contact and re­ceive the approval of a majority of the members of the Budget Committee before granting ap­proval to the club. 


The Senate Budget Committee is chaired by Coffey, and con­sists of Blanco, Florenzo, and representatives from HPC, Dis­trict Senators, class officers, the Club Coordination Council, and the SUB. 
Student club expenditures are drawn from an annual budget of over $400,000, comprised of each student's $55 student ac­tivity fee. 
his initial appearance. The charge goes with a minimum six-month term, but he could be sentenced to up to three years. 
He was initially scheduled to appear today at 10:30 a.m., but Defense Attorney Richard Kirk requested and received a continuance. Instead, Hunter will appear Friday at 10 p.m. 
The assault victim was treated after the incident at St. Joseph Medical Center for deep facial lacerations. He was 
with 108 votes (11.2 percent). Write-in candidates took 31 votes (3.2 percent) in the District 3 race. 
In the race for the off­campus senate seat, the combined ticket of Keith McKeon and Tom Pistick will face George Smith and Michael Goodwin in Wednesday's run­off. McKeon and Pistick won 112 votes (38.6 percent) in yes­terday's balloting, compared to the 95 votes (32.8 percent) won by Smith and Goodwin. 
Kevin McDonough and Paul Gimber, who made up the third ticket on the off-campus ballot, polled 36 votes (12.4 percent). Nancy Nicostra and Randi Tharaldsen received 23 write-in votes (7.9 percent), while other write-in candidates received 24 votes (8.3 percent). 
The only confirmed student senator for 1992-93 is Walsh Hall junior Catherine Danahy. 
She was the only declared candidate in the District 2 (God Quad) senate race, and was thus declared the winner automatically. 
Also in yesterday's balloting, 
65.25 percent of those voting in a referendum said they were satisfied with the function of their hall's judicial boards, compared to 34.75 percent who said they were dissatisfied. Only 9.45 percent of the voters said they have ever been in­volved in a judicial board proceeding. 
Current off-campus students can vote in Wednesday's run­offs in their dorms from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. Current off-campus students can vote in LaFortune Center from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., and in the Hesburgh Library concourse from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. Write-in votes will not considered valid in the run-offs. 

Please Recycle This Newspaper. Thank You. 
Ihe ObseLVer= 
For anyone interested in the paid position of 
St. Mary·s Day Editor 
please submit a one page resume to Michelle Clemente 
by Thursday March 5 at 5:00 pm at the McCandless front desk or Room 538 McCandless. Any questions.. call 284·5 536 
YOU ASKED FOR IT, YOU GOT IT... 
KARAOKE NIGHT at ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
Ill ALUMNI 
~!:CLUB 


released after receiving over 50 stitches, according Sgt. P.J. Firtl, South Bend Police De­partment. 
Firtl said that Hunter ap­proached the Victim and struck him with a large ceramic beer mug. The deep cuts to his face measured two inches and three quarters of an inch in length. 
Police reported an "on­going problem between the victim and the suspect" as the cause of the attack. 


-~-------~~--...-~---~---------------o.~~ 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 The Observer pageS 
Taped beating case seats no black jury Cosby pleads students 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP} -A to leave the case. completed probation, has been 
jury with no blacks was seated Superior Court Judge Stanley fired; the others have been sus­in NYC to end violence 
Monday in the assault trial of four white Los Angeles police officers accused of beating a black motorist a year ago this week. 
Most of those selected said they had seen the widely broad­cast videotape of a crowd of of­ficers beating Rodney King, but all promised to put aside pre­conceptions and look at the 
case anew. 
"We believe they are going to be fair and impartial," said the prosecutor, Deputy District At­torney Terry White, who is black. "Fair and impartial knows no ethnic background or race group." 
''I'm not surprised by the makeup of our jury," said de­fense attorney Michael Stone, who denied there was any de­fense plan to exclude blacks from the jury. 
Jurors include one Asian and one Hispanic. The seven men an·d five women are middle aged and included a computer programmer, a housekeeper, an intensive care nurse and a park ranger. One man has a brother who is a retired police sergeant. 
Six alternates were being se­lected to step in if any juror has Weisberg questioned prospec­tive panelists for about two weeks. Opening statements were scheduled for Wednesday with court scheduled to be in recess on Tuesday, the frrst an­niversary of the beating. 
On March 3, 1991, King was clubbed, kicked, beaten and struck with a stun gun by a 
trcn:d uf off'icers who c~n­verged on the scene after chas­ing his car for several miles. 
An amateur cameraman who lived nearby taped the con­frontation and sold the tape to a television station. Nationwide broadcasts caused a sensation, and led to a nationwide review of police brutality and the planned resignation of Police Chief Daryl Gates. 
Sgt. Stacey Koon, 41, and of­ficers Timothy Wind, 31, Theodore Briseno, 39, and Lau­rence Powell, 29, are charged with assault-. Koon and Powell also are charged with filing false reports on the beating. If convicted they could receive prison sentences ranging from four to eight years. 
Wind, a rookie who had not pended. 

The trial was moved to this bedroom community 35 miles northwest of Los Angeles be­cause it was feared that the political aftershocks to the city's law enforcement system could taint the trial. 
Only one black was called into the jury box during the final stage of jury selection. The de­fense removed her with a peremptory challenge in which no cause need be stated. Stone insisted the defense rejected her not because of her race but because of her responses to questions. 
A few blacks were excused earlier because they said they had already formed opinions about the case. The selection began with only a few blacks in a pool of some 500 prospects. 
Ventura County has a much smaller black population than Los Angeles County, where the beating occurred, and the de­fense cited demographics as the reason for the largely white jury. 
NEW YORK (AP} -Comedian Bill Cosby and Mayo.r David Dinkins went to a school Mon­day where two students were shot to death. They called for an end to the violence they say has destroyed too many young lives. 
"~~u inatter how many detec­tors and surveillance we pro­vide, there are still going to be guns in the street and we've got to change that," Dinkins told 1,000 people outside Thom~s Jefferson High School in Brooklyn's crime-ridden East New York neighborhood. 
"We need an anti-violence movement," he continued. "We've got to stay away from guns and drugs. If we can sur­vive 400 years of slavery, we ought to be able to handle our­selves now." 
Dinkins is New York's first black mayor, and most students at the school and residents of the neighborhood are black. 
On Wednesday, Tyrone Sin­kler, 16, and his 17-year-old friend Ian Moore were shot dead in a school hallway. Police arrested a 15-year-old student they said had a longstanding feud with Sinkler. 
Hours later, another student, reportedly upset by the killings, shot himself at his home. Police ruled his death accidental. 
Monday's crowd cheered wildlv f~! ~~~!!':. ~:!i:-; ~r.i.-~ ~!,1'_
., . ., . ___ --·-....~.otll, 
"iadJ.es and gentlemen, this situation does not just exist in your area. It's all over the United States of America." 
He told the crowd of hearing a voice while attending a church service after a shooting in his. hometown of Philadel­phia. 
"The voice said, 'Lord, there's a stranger in the house. How the stranger got in nobody knows. But you've got to rid your house of the stranger be­cause the stranger does no good.'" 
Wednesday's killings came three months after another Thomas Jefferson student was killed and a teacher wounded in a hallway shooting during a fight. 
Principal Carol Burt Beck said she has lost so many students to street violence -about 50 in recent years -that she has set up a grieving room for students. 
Campus Ministry••• ••• Considerations Lent -A Time of Opportunity make us feel "terrified, thank you!" Do we allow ourselves, by sharing Eucharist, to be "exposed" as more deeply in "Ugh!" my friend said to me, "that's right--Lent starts soon, communion with friends and strangers alike --the body of Christ doesn't it? What a drag." Haven't we all felt this "ugh" at one time --than we'd ever like to admit? or another? Forty days of trying our best to give up a favorite treat or bad habit, of vowing to make positive changes in our lifestyle, Our thirteen friends live down the hall from us, down the block our efforts to serve or to pray. As much as we know that "it's good from us,upstairs or across the quad from us. Somehow these for us," sometimes it's hard to really believe that Lent is all that it's brave neighbors, friends, strangers, want to be a part of our cracked up to be. Catholic community. They respond to a call from God, who we hope speaks through each of us. Sunday morning was filled with reasons to celebrate all the joyful possibilities ahead of us this Lent. Sunday was a day of so much Lent, a time of joyful opportunity. A time of final preparation and sunshine that, as if magnetized, we were all tugged out of hope-filled anticipation for thirteen people who seek new life in buildings to (pretend to) study outside. The new energy and new Lent and in Easter. Because of our opportunity to welcome life that we all felt that day was magnified even more for thirteen these men and women with open arms we too can find new life, members of our community who will find this Lent to be filled with new energy and new hope through our own baptism, through unfolding mysteries and questions, and more than anything, hope. our own public proclamations and in the examples of our lives. These men and women seek to become members of the Catholic Kate Sullivan ~D ~, ~DChurch through the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA). This past Sunday at the 11 :45 mass these thirteen went through a very public step in their process of becoming Catholic. The ceremony was beautiful, moving, and yet quite a challenge for them. How would any of us who were baptized as infants feel if we were asked to stand before our hall liturgy communities or at Sacred Heart and publicly proclaim our faith? To state aloud before our friends, our neighbors and before strangers that we have truly listened to the Word of God in Scripture, felt the support of our brothers and sisters, reflected on our own baptism, joined with Liturgies of Ash Wednesday others in prayer and in lives of love and service? The thirteen at Sacred Heart Basilica candidates and catechumens stood before everyone on the steps of the altar at Sacred Heart, and even though they said it 11:30 am •• Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C.made them feel "naked," and "exposed," and "terrified, thank you," 5:00pm •• Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.they publicly proclaimed their desire to join the Catholic community. Perhaps we wouldn't be too eager to make this kind of a public, ritual profession of our beliefs. And yet we already have! And we R.I.P.do, again and again, each time we "profess our faith" in the Nicene Creed at mass on Sundays, each time we join "in Your prayers are requested for thecommunion," in reception of the Eucharist. We publicly proclaim that we will be the body of Christ, and to the extent that we live repose of the soul ofMrs. Marie Sniffen, like we are the body of Christ after we say that we are, we also who died recently, and is the mother of very publicly proclaim what our faith means to us. To profess, by James Sniffen of 106 Dillon Hall. our words and by our lives, that by our baptism we are called to follow Christ, is a joyful challenge but might, perhaps should,  

........ -a.•.• ·---~~··--!'~·.::,.•...,;. .. ·:. ... .o:.t .. 1 -~~ ...... -.................... ,. ......... ... 
"' • It,. -\. • ... .. • ~ ... ' ... ' .............. -: •• '·-... ~ .... "'. _, .... -.: ..... ''... •• ' • " "' • " ........ ' • ' ' • ' ' , •• '\., ....... ~ .,. "' • 
page 6 The Observer 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Just like Mozart 

Fisher senior practices piano in the Fisher 24 hour lounge. He takes piano lessons here. 
New York City kids get guns easily 
NEW YORK (AP) -If you're 16 and want a gun -for pro­tection, for respect, for revenge -there has never been a time and place more accommodating than New York City today. 
You can lift one from your father's drawer, borrow one from a friend or buy one for less than $100 at the bodega down the street, out of a car trunk or from Johnny up in 2B. 
Gunrunners have given the city with the nation's toughest gun law the nation's biggest pile of illegal firearms, law en­forcement authorities say. And kids are taking advantage of the wide selection and reasonable prices. 
The latest reminder came last week, when two students at a Brooklyn high school were shot to death by a schoolmate. The suspect told police he had bor­rowed a .38-caliber gun from a friend. Police traced the gun and found it had been stolen from the car of a security guard in New Jersey more than two years ago. 
Metal detectors have been used once a week at about 20 city schools. Mayor David Dinkins on Sunday announced a $28 million program to use metal detectors daily at five of the most violent schools starting today. The practice will be extended to 35 more of the city's 120 public high schools over the next year and a half. 
Police patrols in and around 
those schools also will be in­
creased, and security coordina­
tors will be appointed. 

Most of the illegal guns in New York are purchased at stores in four states with lax gun sales laws -Virginia, Florida, Ohio and Texas -and smuggled into the state. 
New York City regulations forbid citizens from buying a handgun without first obtaining a police permit that requires a showing of need. For example, a pharmacist might be granted a permit because he transports medicine. 
A state law requires a mini­mum sentence of a year behind bars for any gun possession vi­olation. But because of loop­holes, violators rarely go to jail. 
There's no Mr. Big among the gunrunners, just a lot of small entrepreneurs who buy the guns themselves with false ID or hire "straw buyers," accord­ing to law enforcement authori­ties. The guns sell on New York streets for about twice the manufacturer's suggested retail price. 
Although guns are not sold as openly as drugs, almost every­one in the city's poorest, most violent neighborhoods knows someone with a gun for sale, or someone who knows someone. Teen-age buyers are simply one part of the market. 
"There's no Fagin out there 
selling specifically to kids," said 
John O'Brien of the federal 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and 
Firearms. 

No need. Anyone can get a used .25-caliber semiautomatic for around $100, and a good 9mm pistol for between $600 and $800, authorities said. 
The hottest gun among the young is the easy-to-conceal Raven .25-caliber semiauto­matic, which retails for about $45 and costs around $200 on the street. 
That might seem like a lot to poor teen-agers. But there's always a way to get some money. 
"A kid can sell drugs for an evening," said Jeremy Travis, a New York police deputy com­missioner. 
And the gunslingers keep get­ting younger. In 1985, Family Court had 118 cases of children under 16 charged with posses­sion of a loaded firearm; last year there were more than 7 50 such cases. 
"It's the fastest rising offense in the system," said Peter Rein­harz, a lawyer for the city. "It's out of control." 
No one knows how many ille­gal guns are in the city, but po­lice have estimated 2 million. Whatever the number, everyone agrees it is increasing fast. Once a gun enters the city it often changes hands, but doesn't leave. 
• 

--==-=-~~==­
1'\0RffiU (jTnYfR CRSR lttf <fi R T s 
LIVE ON THE O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM STAGE! 
THE FIHST NORTH AMERICAN TOUH BY ONE OF HUSSIA'S PHEMIEH DANCE COMPANIES 
THE .M 0 s.c·o .W
. . 
DRAMATIC 
'·. • I 
B A .· · L L ·. E · · T. 

WEDNESDAY, MAHCH 4, 7:30P.M. • TICKETS: $16/$12 
Tickets on sole at the Saint Mary's box office. 
. !f!--­
locotedln O'Loughlln Auditorium. For Information 
SCJ!_!l[ Mary's Colleg~
and chorgecord orders. coll219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Student loan plan pared to pilot project 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Legis­lation designed to help millions of middle-income students get college loans is being pared drastically, partly because of heavy opposition from the banking lobby. 
The idea was simple: Colleges 
and universities would act as 
... -'--..J--l-.~ocdnc:t h:~nks and 
tne ltuuta, J.J) pu.o.3Lu.u0 ----­
other financial institutions. The student's pay-back schedule would be based on income, with the Internal Revenue Service collecting the payments. 
Banks and other players in the $4.8 billion student loan game stood to lose a significant source of revenue, despite the rising default rates on college loans. Also, some college ad­ministrators have been wary of the government's role, even if IRS involvement would be pe­ripheral. 
And, in this election year, members of Congress are showing little patience for time­consuming debate over an un­proven program -even if it is an alternative to a student loan system that's been described as bureaucratic and frustrating. 
The Senate refused to con­sider the idea during debate on reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. Still, the main proponents of the plan -Sens. Paul Simon, D-Ill., and Dave Durenberger, R-Minn. -re­main optimistic that a more modest version of it will be passed this year. 
The original plan, which pro­posed to replace the entire stu­dent loan program, would have made loans available to all col­lege students, the needy as well 

as the middle class. Current 
federal grant and loan pro­
grams are available only to 
needy students. 
But the proposal has been scaled down to a test by 300 colleges and universities. Pro­ponents want to offer the new version to the Senate Finance Committee when it begins a re­
view of a tax iJiii. 
"We should be giving people alternatives to what we have now and to help middle-income students and families," Simon said. 
Many middle-income families are finding that their children are being priced out of a college education, even as the demand for a better-educated work force is increasing. 
College tuition, when adjusted for inflation, grew at five times the rate of the median family income from 1980 to 1987, one national survey showed. By 1989, the average tuition or fee for a year in a public college was $5,013; yearly tuition in a private institution was $16,356. 
Although inflation was less than 4 percent last year, tuition and fees were up 12 percent at public four-year institutions, and up 13 percent at two-year public universities, the survey showed. 
The scaled-down pilot pro­gram would operate parallel to Pell grants and guaranteed student loans. Any students at­tending the selected 300 schools could borrow up to $5,000 a year, with a total limit of$30,000. 


INTERHALL COMPETITION 12" SOFTBALL WOMEN'S SOCCER 
GRAD/FAC/STAFFCOMPETITION SOFTBALL 
CAMPUS COMPETITION SOCCER CO-REC INDOOR SOCCER 
ENTRIES BEGIN FEB. 25 DEADLINE ·MARCH 4 
ThiTERHALLCOMP~ON 
TEAM TENNIS 
ENTRIES BEGIN APRIL 1 DEADLINE-APRIL 8 


Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Priest asks parish to boycott newspaper_ 
ALAMEDA, Calif. (AP) -A 
Roman Catholic priest in a dis­
pute with a local newspaper 
suggested that parishioners 
give up their subscriptions for 
Lent. 
"Their concerns are not building up the community," the Rev. Patrick Goodwin of St. James Basilica said of the Alameda Times-Star. "Their concern is building up circula­tion." 
Goodwin told about 250 peo­ple at a Sunday service that the Times-Star has joined what he called the media's tendency for "Catholic-bashing." 
Goodwin and other church of­ficials would like the 7 ,000-cir­culation daily paper to drop or modify its "Straight Talk" col­umn, which lets people make anonymous comments. In his sermon, Goodwin described the column as "much gossip with little fact." 
Times-Star editor Tom Tuttle replied: "To say we take part in Catholic-or community-bashing is both false and an example of blaming the messenger for reporting news events. It's 
Times-Star-bashing and strikes 
us as demagogic, especially 
coming as it does from the pul­
pit." 
The Times-Star, in an article Friday announcing a reader survey on the future of "Straight Talk," referred to a Wednesday me.eting with St. Joseph officials and said they attacked the column. Church officials said they thought the meeting was confidential. 
Tuttle said that the Times­Star did agree not to write a story about what was discussed at the meeting. But he added, "We did not and would not agree to say that the meeting never existed or identify the topic of discussion." 
Friday's article also said the church's displeasure may have stemmed from a 2-year-old story about an associate pastor at the church who was arrested for investigation of drunken driving, an incident the paper learned about at the time from anonymous calls to "Straight Talk." 

February 13, 1992-Notre Dame Community: 
In my letter to you of March 27, 1991, I reviewed the concerns we all face with the health hazards of smoking. In that letter the formation of atask force to review the issue of smoking on our campus was annouPced. This task force included faculty, student and staff members of our community. Comprised of both smokers and non-smokers, the task force gathered information from institutions of higher education and other business entities. Many individuals from this campus shared their insights and concerns with the task force over the last several months. 
After much deliberation, the task force accomplished its goal: the development of asmoking policy for the University. This policy was reviewed and approved by both the Environmental Issues Committee and the Officers of the University. 
This policy will be distributed throughout the university community. Its implementation date is August 1, 1992. 
OVer the next several months and before this implementation date, the University will be offering numerous programs to assist members of our community in adapting to this smoking policy. I urge you to take advantage of these opportunities. 
Knowing the personal concerns many of us have on this issue, I ask your cooperation in implementing this plan. 
I wish to thank all those who invested their time and concern on this project, especially Dr. John Duman who so ably chaired the task force. 
Cordially, 
l"-'A. A • .s,&e 
.-:-(R_e_v..:..)E_d_w_ar_d_A_._M_al_lo~y,...:C...:.S:.:..C::.:.·•:..;,P..:..re...:s...:id:.:.en...:t__________1 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-SMOKING POLICY 
Effective August 1, 1992 
Ratio.nale • Policy • General Guidelines 

Long-standing, irrefutable proof demonstrates smoking is harmful to the health of smokers. In addition, recent reports from the Surgeon General indicate that exposure to secondhand smoke can be aserious health hazard for non-smokers. Apart fromthese health issues, secondhand-smoke is often physicallydistressing tonon-smokers. Consequently, the University of Notre Dame, out of concern for the health, safety and well-being of the members of the campus community, establishes the following policy. 
Smoking is prohibited in all buildings, stadiums, and vehicles owned, leased or operated by the University of Notre Dame. Possible exceptions are noted below. (Item 'I' of General Guidelines.) 
1. Sites where smoking is permitted must be fully enclosed, properly ventilated areas into which non-smokers do not normally enter. Under these guidelines smoking is prohibited in all restrooms, entrances to buildings, public lounges and lobbies, eating places, classrooms, arenas, and all other areas not specifically identified below. The rights of non-smokers to asmoke free environment always take precedence over the desire of smokers to smoke. Smoking may be permi-ted in the following areas: 
a.) Private Offices, not open to the public except by invitation. Note, however, that smoking is prohibited even in aprivate office at times when non-smokers are present. 
b.) Dormitory Rooms. Prior consent of all roommates is required. Therefore, smokers must make their desires known to the 'Student Residence Office' and this office must match roommates appropriately. 
The Observer 


The Observer/Sean Farnan

Don't look up 
Morrissey sophomore Robert Schupansky sits and studies on the South Quad yesterday, unaware of the bicycle above his head. 
c.) Graduate Housing as here described.University Village. In individual. apartments. In the University Village Community Center, but only at events where the organizers have agreed that smoking will be permitted. 
O'Hara-Grace and Fischer Townhouses.. In individual apartments with the prior consent of all roommates. Once again, the Student Residences Office must match roommates according to smoking preferences. Some reasonable number of apartments will be kept permanently smoke free to accommodate those allergic to smoke, etc. 
d.) Morris Inn. Individual hotel rooms. Some reasonable number of rooms will be kept permanently smoke free to accommodate those allergic to smoke, etc. 
e.) Smoking Jounqes, where they exist, must be totally enclosed, properly ventilated so that non-smokers in adjacent areas are not exposed to secondhand smoke, appropriately signed 'Smoking Permitted', and they must be areas into which non-smokers are not normally required to enter. Risk Management and Safety must provide prior approval of the site of asmoking lounge and periodically inspect these, and adjacent, areas. 
2. 
The University, through Human Resources, will provide access to smoking cessation programs, as suggested in Appendix 1, to all members of the campus community who desire them. 

3. 
The sales, distribution, and advertisement of tobacco products is prohibited on campus. 

4. 
The University policy on smoking will be communicated in writing to all prospective students and candidates for positions. 

5. 
The Guidelines presented here are meant to be minimum standards. Any 


building, or any unit within a multi-unit building may adopt more stringent guidelines. 
6. 
The success of this policy depends upon thethoughtfulness, consideration, goodwill, and cooperation of both smokers and non-smokers. All members of the Notre Dame Community, as well as visitors, share in the responsibility of adhering to and enforcing this policy. At University events (i.e. athletic events, concerts, etc.) violators who refuse to conform will be escorted out of the event. 

7. 
Complaints about violations of smoking policy should initially be brought to the attention of the individual responsible for the area in which the violation occurred. If this fails to halt the violation, the supervisor and/or the original complainant should contact Risk Management and Safety where the infraction will be reviewed and referred to the appropriate authority for corrective action. 

8. 
The University recognizes potential problems resulting from recirculation of air from areas of abuilding where smoking is allowed to those areas where it is prohibited. Complaints about air quality resulting from the above should be brought to the attention of the unit supervisor. The supervisor, if unable to remedy the situation, will contact Risk Management and Safety for assistance. Risk Management and Safety will then determine if further restrictions or 'changes are required. 


If the Environmental Protection Agency, the Indiana State Board of Health and/or the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Agency issues air quality guidelines on safe levels of tobacco/smoke-related chemicals in buildings, the University (through Risk Manag(lment and Safety) will monito-air quality in campus buildings and report these data to the Environmental Issues Committee. If air in any campus building is found to be contaminated with these chemicals in excess of any newly established regulations, the Committet will provide whatever guidelines ne~essary to bring that building into · compliance. 
9. Two years after introduction of these regulations the Environmental Issues Committee will review this smoking policy to determine (a) whether these regulations should be amended, and (b) whether the University should become completely 'smoke-free'. 
page? 

Intelligence budget still at $30 billion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Despite the demise of the Soviet Union the Bush Administration i~ proposing a secret intelligence budget near Cold War levels, according to sources inside and outside the government. 
Spending is estimated at $30 billion for next year -about where it stood when Soviet communism was considered a major threat. 
Some members of Congress, which will eventually vote on the intelligence budget without revealing its contents, think the spies and analysts ought to be taking cuts along the lines of those faced by the military. But the White House counters that intelligence activities will be all the more vital after the armed forces are cut. 
Officials won't comment pub­licly on the intelligence budget. But Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney, asked recently whether intelligence cuts would equal those in defense, responded: 
"Let's just say (CIA Director) Bob Gates is a happy man." 
The administration's pro­posed budget for next year does take a bite from intelligence spending. But it is nowhere near as much as the 7 percent cut in the defense budget of which it is a part, according to indications from official and private sources. And that's not sitting well with some law­makers. 
"The intelligence budget has got to reflect developments in the world," said Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio. "There's a general consensus that there should be some cuts," added Metzenbaum, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
Democrats believe the intelli­gence budget, which doubled during th~ 1980s, should be shaved at least another 2 or 3 percent, bringing it closer to the defense cuts. Spending on spy satellites is a likely target, now that the former Soviet Union is dismantling many of its nuclear weapons and con­solidating the rest. 
Last year, Congress cut about 1 percent from the administra­tion's requested spending. For fiscal 1993, which begins Oct. 1, lawmakers say they'll be less generous . 
But the administration con­tends, in the words of one offi­cial, that "intelligence is a force multiplier," meaning that it makes up for the smaller num­ber of U.S. troops and weapons. To feel confident that the United States can afford to close bases and take many troops and systems off alert, the administration must be able to rely on timely intelligence, he added, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Lawmakers believe early warning can be provided with less money. 
The target areas for U.S. in­telligence -such as the spread of nuclear weapons in the Third World, terrorist activity and the political fortunes of the former Soviet Union -"are important but not that expen­sive," he said. 
John Pike, an official of the non-government Federation of American Scientists, who tracks intelligence spending based in part on unclassified budget items, figures an intelli­gence analyst costs the gov­ernment about $100,000 a year. Even hiring 1,000 new analysts would only come to about one-tenth the cost of a $1 billion satellite. 
page 8 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 


Watch St. Ed·s (affirmative) 
vs. 

Alumni (negative) 
Debate the Resolution: 
.. Uni"~rsity e>f Ne>tr~ DCim~·s mo"e te> a National Catholic Research Uni"ersity will be detrimental to Notre 
DCirl"l~·s und~rgraduat~ 
program... 
LIBRARY AUDIT RIU 


-
The Observer 

Tuesday, March 3, 1992 


The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Lending a helping hand 
S~int Mary's senior Elizabeth Miller tours enjoys the warm temperatures yesterday with Breanna Ramey. Elizabeth tutors the South Bend resident in reading as a part of SMC's education program. 
CIA agent encourages Noriega meeting 
MIAMI (AP) -A CIA agent testified Monday that Manuel Noriega and Cuban leader Fidel Castro agreed to meet to dis­cuss guerrilla violence in Cen­tral America, not cocaine traf­ficking as U.S. prosecutors charge. 
"Fidel Castro was eager to discuss with General Noriega the situation that existed in Central America, particularly Nicaragua and El Salvador," said Donald Winters, who headed the agency's office in Panama from 1984 to 1986. 
Noriega even took CIA brief­ing papers to the meeting, and returned with Castro's agree­ment to make concessions on reducing arms to leftist insur­gents in El Salvador, as well as on repatriating Marie! refugees, the agent testified. 
"General Noriega made an obvious attempt to go out of his way to cooperate," Winters told the jury. Their meetings were "all in his role as an informal liaison between the United States and Cuba." 
Then-CIA Director William Casey even traveled to Panama to meet with Noriega, dis­cussing with him the July 1984 meeting with Castro, added Winters. 
The CIA "encouraged and ap­preciated" Noriega's contacts with Castro, he said. 
A key point for the defense's effort to disprove drug and racketeering charges was Win­ters' testimony that Noriega told him about Castro's invita­tion to Cuba two weeks before his dispute with the Medellin cartel arose. 
Prosecutors have claimed the purpose of the Castro meeting was to mediate a dispute that arose when Noriega's troops raided a cartel drug lab in a remote Panamanian jungle province -despite a $4 million bribe the Colombians had paid to a Noriega underling. 
On cross-examination, prose­cutors sought to show that while the original purpose of the meeting may have been Central American diplomacy, drugs also could have been discussed between the two leadersf. 
They brought out that Nor­iega originally did not intend to go to Cuba because he had a trip to Europe scheduled. He planned to send two represen­tatives, but told Winters he had changed his mind at the last minute because his return flight from Europe took him close to Havana. 

"Do you know what a cover story is?" asked prosecutor Myles Malman. 
"If you go out to see youF mistress, you usually have a cover story," the agent re­sponded. 
Defense attorney Frank Ru­bino's examination of the wit­ness and secret government documents also brought out other examples of Noriega's cooperation with the CIA in the Caribbean and Central America at a time the United States was supporting the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
-At the same June 1984 meeting where Noriega dis­cussed the Castro invitation with the CIA agent, the Pana­manian leader gave the CIA two secret memos on the activities of Gallardo Arce, a militafy commander for Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government. 
A,.,.EN,.ION SOPHOMORES!!! 
Looking for a great leadership opportunity? Want to be a part of the best Jr. Class event? Applications are now available for the 
1993 JUNIOR PAREN,.S 
WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
at the LaFortune Info Desk. Deadline: Fri., March 6. 
Experience not necessary -just enthusiasm! 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, March 3, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....•••••••••.••.•.•••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .....•.••••••..... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .•••........... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor••••..••...•••••.•••John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
.. 

Students are encouraged to attend dramatizations 
Dear Editor: audiences as the star of such 
The Ideas and Issues movies as Places in the Heart, Committee of the Student Union The Color Purple, Lethal Board would like to encourage Weapon I & II and (the soon-to­all students, faculty, and staff to be-released) III. He is currently attend Wednesday's presen­a part of the ensemble cast of tation entitled "An Evening with the critically lauded Grand Langston and Martin." The Canyon. Mr. Felix Justice has show begins at 7:30 p.m. at been acting and directing for Stepan Center. Tickets are $2 twenty-eight years. In 1981 his for Notre Dame and Saint Prophecy in America premiered Mary's students, $4 for the at the Lorraine Hansberry general public and may be pur­Theater in San Francisco. The chased at the LaFortune one-man show featured Justice Information Desk or at Stepan as Martin Luther King and Center Wednesday night. toured throughout the United 
Mr. Danny Glover and Mr. States and Africa. Felix Justice will be performing A question and answer ses­dramatic readings by each of sion will follow the perfor­these outstanding African­mances. We hope you will join Americans. Danny Glover will us for what promises to be an be "Langston" as in Langston engaging and informative Hughes, reading from the evening that combines aspects works of a poet who was a of theater and audience inter­prominent figure in the 1920's action. Harlem Renaissance and re­mains an important contributor Pat Smyth to American literature. Felix Commissioner Justice will be "Martin" as in Dan Alesia Martin Luther King, reading Asst. Commissioner from the civil rights leader's Dan Dwyer writings and whose life and ex­Asst. Commissioner ample speak for themselves. Ideas and Issues Committee Danny Glover will be familiar to March 2, 1992 
DOONESBURY 


!?CAUY~ FOR RV~8l/CJ<5~ 
I GET PfAC&ANP QUIETAU. THe WAY 7D 7Ht AIRffKT~ 
\ 
NOR WIUI HOW FOR.m ON THe 7Y50N Vti?P/CT, TH& COPS OR. 
7Ht W#JTH131?.. I Al-SO WON'T (£{'l05T, WON'T 5PfZCJ ANf? WON'T 5CR&AM ATMY llt5­PATCfftR. IN ARABIC. 

Americans are stuck on Presley 

Dear Editor: 
The U.S. Post Office has joined the ranks of the National Enquirer and painters every­where who choose velvet as their medium. It has gone into the Elvis business. 
The post office wants to make an Elvis Presley postage stamp, but it can't decide which one it likes best. On a Las Vegas stage last Monday, Postmaster General Anthony Frank narrowed the choices to two. He offered a thin, '50s-style Elvis, and a portly, '70s-style King. Now Frank wants the American people to choose. 
From April 6-24, post offices around the country will carry free post cards featuring the two Elvises. Just check the ver­sion of the King whose back side you wish to lick in 1993 when the stamps will be issued. It sounds like a terrific contest. For a fact, it's the first of its kind. Americans get to pick a stamp. Heated discussions will erupt across dinner tables ev­erywhere. 
But there's a catch. For your vote to count, it must be mailed. The post cards may be free, but you supply the stamp. That's 19 cents . 
Like so many scoundrels who have come before it, the post office has realized that Americans have an appetite for Elvis. No other historical figure besides Jesus Christ has sold more velvet paintings than the King. And even Jesus doesn't have as many illlpersonators. There is an association (the International Association of Elvis Presley Impersonators) just to keep track of them all. 
Then there are the tabloids. While the slumping economy swallows other publications whole, the National Enquirer and the Star continue to thrive. 
Their tireless reporters always manage to uncover stories about Elvis sightings, and Elvis­shaped squash that esteemed papers such as the Indianapolis Star seem to overlook. 
Now the post office wants in on the lucrative Elvis business. They plan to capitalize on this country's fascination with a dead man -a man who sang and swiveled his hips, then died of a drug overdose. 
At 19 cents a pop, if just five percent of the country votes, the post office will probably make about $2.3 million. And like the rest of the mail, the votes will probably arrive late. 
In this election, forget about civic duty. Don't vote. 
Tim Rogers 
Off-campus 
March 1, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'One can only understand by standing under.' 
Socrates' Assistant 

Don't make me make these up, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Accent ­
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 page 11 


Hypatia Day encourages young girls to keep an interest in the sciences 
By CAROLINE CLARKE  The day's events focused  roles in how young girls  girls in the sixth to eighth  "We must begin in the  
Accent Writer  on presenting positive role  establish themselves in  grade range. In a widely  home, and enlighten par­ 
models to young girls. Guest  society.  distributed questionnaire,  ents about what  
Saint Mary's hosted its  speakers included seven  "Girls don't completely  grade school students were  opportunities are available  
second annual Hypatia Day  women whose careers  lose interest in high school  asked if they accepted  for their daughters,"  
on Saturday, February 29.  entailed mathematics and  and college. As they move  themselves.  Cooney stated. "Today there  
The event was intended for  the sciences.  into careers, however, not as  are many more opportu­ 
selected seventh and eighth  According to Miriam  many women continue to  Results were evenly  nities out there."  
grade girls from the  Cooney, professor of mathe­ pursue these subjects in  divided, both sexes  
Michiana area who are  matics at Saint Mary's and  graduate school," she noted.  responding positively.  The events included first­ 
interested in math and  one of ·the program's  "Only 20 percent of women  However, the results from  hand experience for  
science.  coordinators, the AAUW has  receive doctorates in math  the sixth grade respondents  students in college  
The day long gathering  contributed to investigative  and science."  were staggered. Male self  laboratories, as well as  
was sponsored by the  research that explores how  This statistic, known as  esteem was higher, with 38  computer workshops.  
American Association of  stereotypes affect girls'  the "leaky pipeline" theory,  percent of the boys and only  
University Women.  interest in the sciences.  supports the assertion that  26 percent of girls were  Cooney further  
Approximately 130 middle  According to Cooney,  there is a constant dropout  satisfied.  emphasized the need to  
school girls from seven  girls' diminished interest in  of women in the math and  foster an early interest in  
Indiana counties were  the sciences is not a trend  science community.  The AAUW works to dispel  the sciences. Such  
accompanied by their  but actually a continual  Another study conducted  gender stereotypes by  knowledge is a requisite for  
parents, teachers and  process. Socialization and  . by· the AAUW revealed the  investing money to educate  today's technical society, she  
counselors.  gender roles indeed play key  plummeting self esteem of  parents and teachers.  said.  

Are you a movie buff? Would you like to see a movie every other week for free? 
If you answered 'yes' to these questions, then The Observer wants you! Accent is looking for an avid movie goer with strong writing skills to be The Observer's movie reviewer. Just like Siskel or Ebert, you will be the ND/SMC community's voice on the world of film. If you are interested, su~mit a writing sample (movie reviews encouraged) and a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan at The Observer office by March 4. COTH, AMST or ENGL majors preferred. Any questions call Jahnelle at 239-5303. 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Tark meets with UNLV president to discuss future 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitieds 
Classifieds 

must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: Brown framed glasses 6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Congratulations to the athletic dept.: 
in a red case, if found please FURNISHED.272-6306 Good rates. Save Money. Call me NDSWIM Ill your time is gonna come
NOTICES I call 284-5256 for a quote 9:30-6:00, -led zeppelin 
Student rental for '92-93. 289-1993. Office near campus. Hey Karen, USED TEXTBOOKS I 4 bdrms & loft. Avail. Aug. 232-SIX GUYS AT ONCEII Nautilus marge, lush, katey, kar, mo. joy and Buy & Sell Books WANTED 4964. DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO Woman livesll julie (our chaperone?): cancun is 
the summer interested in house- alleviated?  
LOST: GOLD CAMEO RING. IT'S VERY OLD & THE FACE IS  sitting or subletting. Call Monica at 283-4098.  FOR SALE  I'M PULLING OUT OF HERE TO  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  To the two Brunettes and the Blond, I am up for great sex. Where  
SMOOTHED OVER. MY  WIN ...  Info on semester, year, graduate,  did it ever say I was looking for  
GRANDMA'S & DEEP  SUMMER JOBSIII I need painters  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  summer and internship programs in  love? My only question for you is  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE I LOST  for the summer in the South Bend  89 Mercedes ...................... $200  MAGGIE, KATEY, LAURIE, KAREN,  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  are we talking one at a time or all  
BETWEEN SMC BUS STOP &  area; experience helpful but not  86 vw....................................$50  JOY, MO AND JULIE (WAY OFF IN  Melbourne. Programs start at  together?  
HAYES-HEALY@ NO. CALL  necessary. Call Mike 684-6145.  87 Mercedes ...................... $100  CHI-TOWN): CANCUN IS  $3520. Call1-800-878-3696.  Love and Kisses,  
283-5319.  65 Mustang .......................... $50  COMING. TIME IS TICKING. SUN  the TALLER Rob.  
FOUND: LADY'S WATCH NEAR  FOR RENT  Choose from thousands starting $25.  AND SIN ARE ON THE WAY ....  The Lizard King lives on I Down with the Crustaceans I  HELP III Anyone driving south  
BOOKSTORE. CALL SHIRLEY  FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  Felicia Meg & Shannon  toward Ga. or Fla. for the break.  
239-5303 TO IDENTIFY.  Details 801-379-2929 Copyright  Congratulations I  $1 00 bounty on the head of marc  Hot blonde and cute friend  
SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL ­ #IN11KJC  Good luck nex1 year!  demanigold, chief punk on that  desperately need ride to Atlanta  
•  LOST -One black leather jacket with wallet and car keys. Lost at The  3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE OF FACILITIES,  FOR SALE: SMC approved loft.  We will miss you I -Anabel  alumni team  area. Start the break with a free case of beer and free food and  
Commons Tuesday night.  KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO.  $80 call284-5174.  I need a ride to Texas;will help  hospitality if necessary I  
Information? Call 234-2779.  NICE NEIGHBORHOOD  FACE IT BRUNETTES ... (MARY,  drive/gas. Moira x4190  Call Jen x4868 or Scott x1184  
&HOME.  SKI HATSII  CHRISTINE, JOHNNA) THE  
CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Andean Hats excellent for  BLONDES (NIKKI, AMANDA,  every1hing i know may be wrong,  
LOST: One Birkenstock with tan  PAUL 232-2794.  skiers; $1 0 ea.  HEATHER) JUST HAVE  SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  but since i know that i'm wrong, i  
straps and very worn bottoms. Lost  Manuel 283-4333  "ADVANTAGES" SEE YOU IN  CONDOMINIUMS FOR SPRING  guess i'm wrong about being  
enroute to Rockne from CCMB on  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  CANCUNIII  BREAK. $25 PER PERSON PER  wrong...  
Thursday, February 27. Rumored to have been hanging in a tree outside  AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR  TICKETS  ATTENTION ALL CREW TEAM  NIGHT/ OFF BEACH. $29 PER PERSON PER NIGHT/  COLIN- 
the Riley art building. HELP  STUDENTSII DO NOT PAY  MEMBERS PAST AND PRESENT:  BEACHFRONT. 1-800-422-8212.  Would you quit staring and  
HELPIIIII If found, PLEASE cell  EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND  1-way ticket, South Bend to Dallas.  Only one more day until John  talk to her, already I?I  
Brooke at x2665.  PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY  3/6/92, 5pm. American: SB-Chi­ O'Brien's birthday. Call him up and  BEGINNING BRIDGE LESSONS  
THE POOLIIII CALL X3414­ DFW.  wish him a happy birthday, or send  BRIDGE CENTER, 2333 Miracle  Irish Music and Dance  
MESSAGE.  $50 call Chris x1658  him a gift (American currency  Lane, Mishawaka, ln. (Town &  Every Tuesday at Club 23  
Lost: I lost 3 id cards last week with  preferred.)  Country Shopping Center)  SEAMAISIN  
the names of: Todd Ogburn  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED  PERSONAL  STUDENT DISCOUNT: $10-Eight Week Course-7-9 PM. Beginning:  
Blane Shearon  HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY  Not'ln better than hot  Wednesday, March 4, 1992 to April  
Kevin Feerlck  SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9­ IT PUTS THE LOTION ON IT'S  chocolate w/whip cream on a  22, 1992. Pre-Registration  
If found, PLEASE call Brian at  MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801  SKIN. IT PUTS THE LOTION IN  cold day to warm the belly!  Desired. Call255-6613 or 291­ 
x3537 and I will identify them.  OR 255-5852.  THE BASKET.  LOVE YOUR WUBBIE I  4833. Full payment at first meeting.  

O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1-800-833-5555. 
cancun countdown: 3 days 
SPRING BREAK -S. PADRE ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON RESORT" BEACHFRONT PARTIES I SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR, SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY OWNER. 1-212-472-1414. 
We are Strong I 
Love, Emilio moments away. DO NOT SPEND 
P.S. I want to sex you up. MONEY THIS WEEK. We need 
every cent we have ... Men of Keenan: Did you hear what we heard at the PW formal? SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS SEXY 
5. If guys did this, you'd call us LEGS SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS disgusting I 
4. Glenn, you pervert, you're 1992 CHAMPs­reading into things I GREAT BALLS OF FIRE II 
3. What does one do when receiving handcuffs-ask Glenn! GOING TO NORTH JERSEY/NYC 
2. The Sex on the Beach went too AREA FOR BREAK ??? fast, but the Blue Balls lasted all I need a ride and will help will help night. with tolls/gas/driving. 1.So who's repression was Frank x2106 
tigation of the program, one which has probably been probed and looked into more than any other in the nation. 
"I rescinded my resignation a week ago and at the time I said and I say it again, I just want the truth to be known about what has happened to Rebel basketball," Tarkanian said at a local restaurant. 'Tm calling for an independent, impartial investigation. We want every­one in the country to know what happened to Rebel bas­ketball. I think everyone should be in favor of the investigation. I think it's the best and easiest way of getting the truth out." 
Tarkanian went on to list what he thought were impro­prieties by the university against him and his program, things which have been brought up many times such as media leaks and secret videotapes. He also defended his program's academic record over the years and said the school's overall record in that department paled by comparison. 
A report on UNLV's recent academic history conducted by an independent group was sup­plied to everyone at the restau­rant and it was far from flat­tering toward the state univer­sity. 
Maxson met with the media in his office about 45 minutes after Tarkanian was done and to no one's surprise, he coun­tered each point made by the coach as it was mentioned. 
Maxson said he felt there was no need for another investiga­tion after the NCAA's 4 1/2-year probe into the basketball program which was augmented by a university look as well. 
"If there is any truth out there that hasn't come out I don't know about it," Maxson said. 
"To my knowledge, everything is out in the open. The university is best served with the more people know." 
Maxson then requested any­one with any information about the program which has not been offered to come forward. 
Maxson reiterated that he wants this whole episode to pass so the school can continue in its main objective of educa­tion. 
Maxson, who termed the aca­demic report about the school as bogus, accepted Tarkanian's resignation last summer and agreed he should coach one more season. 
"No one has felt worse about the bad publicity than I," Maxson said. "When Jerry Tarkanian resigned and it was agreed he would coach one more season I definitely felt it was right for both he and the university. I thought of it as a victory lap, a parade down Main Street. No one has been as regretful of the bad publicity as I have." 
Maxson talked of the frustra­tion of his faculty at the con­ception the school has devel­oped over the years with bas­ketball first, academics second. 
"This has been a distraction from the academic side of the school," Maxson said, referring to the long battles with the NCAA, which includes one ac­tive investigation with 29 alle­gations, many regarding the recruiting of New York school­boy star Lloyd Daniels who never attended the school after being arrested on drug charges. 
Tarkanian admitted the re­cruting of Daniels was "the biggest mistake I ever made." 
Still, Tarkanian talked about how he felt about the school whose administration has be­come an adversary tougher and more successful than any he faced on the court. 
"I love UNLV. I spent 19 years, about one-third of my life here. I had four kids go to school here," Tarkanian said. "I watched it grow from 2,000 people in a little gym to one of the largest following in the country. I love the city of Las Vegas and I'm its best sales­man." 
Tarkanian said his attorneys told him not to talk about pos­sible legal action concerning the rescinding of his resignation, but he said he could do other things. 
''I'll be 62 next year. I could go water the flowers," he said. "Vegas will always be my home and UNLV will always be my university. I think I'd make an outstanding regent." 
Maxson had no reaction to the thought of Tarkanian suddenly becoming one of the school's policy-makers, but said he expected the physical transition of Tarkanian leaving his position on Wednesday to be orderly. 
The school plans to have a ceremony after Tuesday night's game between the sixth-ranked Runnin' Rebels (25-2) with Utah State and there are a number of receptions and rallies planned throughout the city for Tarkanian. 
"I never get into ceremonies," Tarkanian said. "It will be nice and they can do what they want. I haven't planned one thing." 
He was asked one last time if he any plans for after Wednesday. 
''I'll either go to Harvard or Yale, I'm not sure." 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -The day before Jerry Tarkanian's last game at UNLV was spent as expected, with the coach and school president Robert Maxson talking separately about the same thing. 
Both men met the media Monday and instead of talk surrounding Tarkanian's final 

game coaching the Runnin' Rebels after 19 years, there was more talk of resignation rescinding, independent investi­gations and the future. 
Tarkanian, the winningest coach by percentage in college basketball history (624-122), called for an independent inves-
Jerry Tarkanian, shown here after winning the 

is
contemplating his future career moves. 

Pandora's Books 3 blks. from NO AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun phone orders. People Call you. Will 219-291-7153. 
Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext 555. 24 TYPING AVAILABLE HRS. FOR RENT 287-4082. "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 
NEEDED: A RIDE TO OMAHA OR 259-7801 OR 255-5852" DES MOINES FOR BREAK CALL
LOST/FOUND 

JEREMY X1861 COLLEGE PARK CONDO-Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­
LOST Need a ride to anywhere in or available immediately-call287­One bright blue felt around NJ on Mar 7 or 8 Sat or Sun 0534 or 271-9268. "Gambler's" hat with a 1/2 inch navy will pay gas/tolls call Jessica x2948 blue ribbon/bow. Sentimental value. Student rental, large 6-8 bdrm. Please call Teresa, x2899 if found. Student staying in South Bend for avail. Aug. 288-6740. 
Tuesday March 3 1992 
.~ • • o e ::::::;c:::: C:J r;;~~ r:::: E3 CJ r:::~ F? LJ e o o ·• 
r • 

NOTRE DAME BASEBALL  TRANSACTIONS  
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL  Game lt2,  va.  NAVY  BASEBALL  
All games at Service Academics Classics, Millington, TN  Amerlan League  
Game lt1 -va. Army NOTRE DAME AB R H Bl ARMY AB R H 81 Layson, 2b 3 0 Ruiz, cf 4 0 0 0 Counsell,ss 4 0 0 0 Banez, 2b 2 0 0 0 Danapllis, rl 3 1 1 Damare, ss 0 0 0 Blnklewlcz, 1b 4 0 Boyce, pldh 4 1 1 0 Verduzco, If 4 0 0 Bohrer, c 3 0 2 Mae, 3b 3 0 0 Balch, r1 3 0 1 0 Haas, c 4 0 1 0 Reich. 1b 3 0 1 0 Bautch. cf 2 0 0 0 Lapokas, If 3 0 0 0 DeSensi. dh 3 0 0 0 O'Niel, II 0 0 0 0 Pilla, 3b 3 0 0 0 Wagnor,ss-2b 3 0 0 0 TOTALS 30 2 6 2 TOTALS 211 1 4 1 E·Mee (NO). DP-Notre Dame 1, Army 0. LOB-Notre Dame 5, Army 4. 2B·Binkiewicz (ND).SB-Layson, Danapilis, Verduzco (NO), Banez (A). CS-Layson, Bautch (NO). S-Bautch (A). SF-Danapilis (NO). Pitching  NAVY A8 R H 81 NOTRE DAME AB Ostmo, rl 4 2 2 Layson, 2b 3 Delia, 2b 4 t 0 Counsell, ss 4 Stare. cf 4 1 3 2 Danapilis, rt 3 Lee, dh 2 0 1 1 Binkiewlcz, 1b3 2 Butler, ss 3 t 0 Mae, 3b 3 Mowles, If 3 0 1 Verduzco, If 2 Griffith, c 3 0 0 0 Bautch, cg 2 Mauro, c 0 0 0 Failla, dh 2 Lopez, 1b 3 1 0 Lisanti, c 2 Beach, 3b 2 0 0 0 TOTALS 211 6 9 6 TOTALS 2 4 E-Beach (N). DP-Navy 1, Notre Dame 0. LOB-Navy 8, Notre Dame 4. 28-Stare (N). HR-Danapllls (1). Mae (1). 58-Stare 2 (N), Butler (N), Layson (NO), Bautch (NO). SB-Butler (N). Pitching NOTRE DAME IP H R ER 8B SO Craig Allen 4.0 6 3 3 2 5 AI Walania (W, 1·0) 2.0 3 3 3 2 5 David Sinnes (save, 1 )1.00 o 0 0  R t 0 3 2 1 0 0 0 7  H 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 6  Bl 0 0 2 0 0 6  DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms with Jody Hurst and Riccardo Ingram, outlielders; Rico Brogna, first baseman; and John Kiely, Dan Gakeler and John Doherty, pitchers, on one-year contracts. MINNESOTA lWINS-Agreed to terms with Scott Erickson. p~cher, on a one-year contract. SEATILE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with Gene Harris and Mite RemHnger, p~chers, on one­year contracts. TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms ~h Scott Chiarrparino, pttcher; Ivan Rodriguez, catcher, and Dean Palmer, third baseman, on one-year contracts. National laague CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms wrth Ryne Sandberg, second baseman, on a four-year contract extension through 1996. CINCINNATI REDS-Extended the contraCI of Bob Quinn, general manager, through OCI. 1. LOS ANGELES DOOOERS-Agreed to terms with Rudy Seanez, pitcher; Henry Rodriguez, out!ielder; and Eric Karros, Jose Offerman and Dave Hansen, infielders, on one-year contracts. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms wtth Cris Carpenter and Rheal Cormier , prtchera, on  
NOTRE DAME Chris Michalak (W, 1·0) ARMY Lance Boyce (L, 0-1)  IP 9.0 9.0  H 4 6  R 2  ER 0 2  BB  so 2 7  NAVY Robinson (L, 0-1) Gompers Murray  3.0+3 0.0 0 3.0 3  4 0 3  4 0 3  3 2 0  2 0  one-year contrads. BASKETBALL National Baeketball A...cletlon NBA-Fined Sacramento guard Dennis Hopson $3,000 and N-York guard John Starks $2,000 for their altercaton during a game in Sacramento  
last Thursday.  
BOSTON  CELTICS-Piaced  Rickey Green.  
guard, on the injured liet.  
Game 13,  va.  Air  Force  Game  14, va.  Memphla  State  Uniled Statee Baeketball League ATLANTA EAGLES-Named AI Outlaw coach.  
NOTRE DAME Danapilis, r1 Mea, 3b Counsell, ss-2b  AB 1 6 4  R 1  H 0 0  81 0 1  AIR FORCE Harris, rf·t b Manor, II Washington, cf  AB R 4 4 , 4 1  H 1 0 2  Bl 1 0 0  MEMPHIS ST. Herning, cf-3b Moon, ss Glass, ph  A8 3 1  R 0 0 0  H 0 0 0  8 I 0 0 0  NOTRE DAME Layson, 2b Maisano, ph Blrk, 2b  A8 2 1 0  R 1 0 0  H 1 0 0  Bl 0 0  FOOTBALL World Laague ol American Football BIRMINGHAM FIRE-Released Tim Smiley, safety. SAN ANTONIO RIDERS-Released Scott Martin,  
Binkiewicz.  1 b  5  2  1  0  Simon. c  4  0  0  0  Cottam,  \b  2  0  0  0  Counsell,  ss-3b  2  2  defensive end.  
Leahy, dh Layson, pr Verduzco, If Bautch, cf Naticchia, ph Rooney, c!  5 0 4 2 1  1 0 2 0 0  3 0 0 0  2 0 0 0 0 0  Cowan, c Mullins, 3b Robinson, ss Remvaldo, dh Kasper, ph Pettit, 1b  0 4 3 3 1 3  0 0 0 0 0  0 2 0 0 0 0  0 3 0 0 0 0  Lantrip, 1b Moss, dh Combs, cf Saddens, ph Smith, If Bledsoe, r1  1 3 2  0 0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0 1  0 0 0 0 0 0  Danapllis, r1 Binkiewicz, 1 b Mae, 3b-c Verduzco, If Failla. dh-ss LISanti, c  2 2 3 4 1 3  1 1  1 0 1 0 1  2 1 1 2 0 1  GOLF Proleaaional Goll Aaaolatlon PGA-Named Joe Walser, Jr. chief operating oftleer of PGA TOUR lnv861ments, Inc. HOCKEY Natlonal Hockey Laague MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Asaigned Jon  
Lisanti,  c  1  0  0  0  Sansano,  r1  0  0  0  McCommons, 3b-p2  0  0  0  DeSensi, ph  0  0  0  Casey,  goaltender,  to  Kala~"  of  the  
Maisano. ph  0  0  0  1  Sanders, 2b  4  0  1  0  Thomas, 2b  2  0  0  0  Bautch, cf  1  1  0  International  Hockey League  for  fo'ur  games.  
Walanla, pr Haas, c Birk, 2b DeSanti, 2b Failla, ss TOTALS  0 2 0 2 1 3 5  1 0 0 1 2  0 0 0 1 0 8  0 0 0 2 0 7  TOTALS  3 5  4  6  3  Spinello, c Grant, c TOTALS Pitching NOTRE DAME  1 2 2  0 0 0  0 0 1 IP  0 0 0  H  Haas, ph Rooney, c! TOTALS R  1 a 2 3 ER  0 o 1 0 BB  0 0 7 so  0 0 II  Recalled Larry Dyck, goabender, from Kalamazoo. NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Called up Jarrod Skalde, center, from Lnica of American Hockey League. Assigned Jason Miller and Bill Guerin, forwards, to Utica. NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recalled Danny Lorenz, goaltender, from Capital District of the  
Pitching NOTRE DAME Tom Price (W, 1·0) Tim Kraus  IP H 7.0 6 2.0 0  R 4 0  ER 2 0  BB 0 0  so 3  Pat Leahy (W, 1·0) MEMPHIS STATE Stewan (L, 0· 1)  7.0 0.0  2  0 5  0 5  2  7 0  American Hockey League. SOCCER WORLD CUP USA 1994-Named John Griffin senior press ofticer.  
Caraway  0.0  2  3  3  0  

TUESDAY MARCH 3, 1992 NOTRE DAME VS XAVIER ND Council for the Retarded presents THE GREAT LOGAN NOSE-ON NIGHT FREE THROW CONTEST 
Buy a Derby for LOGAN and take a chance at winning 
TWO FREE DELTA ROUND-TRIP TICKETS TO ANYWHERE IN THE U.S. 
$1.00 GIVES YOU A KELLY GREEN DERBY AND AN OPPORTUNITY TO PARTICIPATE IN THE HALF-TIME FREE THROW CONTEST, PLUS A CHANCE TO WIN OTHER GREAT DOOR PRIZES! 
Sponsored by the N.D. Council for the Retarded for the THE GREAT LOGAN NOSE-ON Airline tickets courtesy of Delta Airlines and Fifth Third Travel 
page 14 
The Observer Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Mike Powell wins Sullivan Award 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Mike Powell, who broke Bob Beamon's storied 23-year-old world record in the long jump, was presented the Sullivan Award on Monday night as the nation's top amateur athlete for 1991. 
Powell, 28, finished first among 10 finalists in national voting for the award by some 2,500 people. The voting in­cluded the media, past winners and representatives of the na­tion's amateur athletic pro­grams. It was presented by the Amateur Athletic Union. 
Five of the finalists attended the 62nd annual Sullivan din­ner, where the announcement was made. Three of those at­tending -swimmer Mike Barrowman, boxer Eric Griffin and synchronized swimmer Sarah Josephson -were there for the second time as finalists. The other finalist who attended the presentation was diver Kent Ferguson. 
The voting was based on 1991 accomplishments, but Powell finished first in voting that included two gold medalists in last month's Winter Olympics­figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi and skier Donna Weinbrech, who also was a fmalist last year. 
Powell became the 36th track and field athlete to receive the Sullivan and the current resi­dent of West Covina is the 23rd Californian to get the Sullivan, which an athlete can receive only once. 
A leap of 29 feet, 4 1/2 inches in Tokyo last year topped the record that had stood since Beamon's gold medal perfor­mance (29-2 1/4) in Mexico City at the 1968 Olympics. 
The jump also ended a streak of 65 victories by Carl Lewis, who had to settle for the silver medal in the world champi­onships after going undefeated for a decade in the event. 
"We don't have a rivalry.... We've competed 16 times and I'm 1-15," Powell said of Lewis, who he's likely to face again in the U.S. Olympic trials and again in Barcelona, Spain. 
"As much as Tokyo meant to me, it (his career) won't be as complete unless I get a gold medal," said Powell, who went home with the silver behind Lewis at the 1988 Olympics. "I'm more motivated than ever to get that gold." 
The Sullivan was the second major award earned by Powell, who was presented the Jesse Owens International Trophy in New York last month. 
"It means approval for what I've done," Powell said of the Sullivan. "As far as being an amateur athlete, the Sullivan is definitely the biggest in the United States." 
He then recited a list of recent winners, including Janet Evans, Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Lewis and Florence Griffith Joyner. 
"Now to have my name in there, I'm kind of laughing," Powell said. 
The ceremony also recognized 1992 as being the 50th anniver­sary of T. Leslie MacMitchell and the 25th anniversary of Jim Ryan being selected as Sullivan winners. 
The finalists who did not at­tend due to schedule conflicts were sprinter Michael Johnson, Duke's Christian Laettner and gymnast Kim Zmeskal. 
The Amateur Athletic Union, which in 1930 created the award in recognition of founder James E. Sullivan, does not announce vote totals. 
Journalist daughter testifies in Switzer trial 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -A journalist's daughter testified Monday that her father has not been the same since former Oklahoma coach Barry Switzer linked him to a scheme of trying to plant drugs on a Sooner football player. 
Also, attorneys for reporter Jack Taylor Jr. presented the football player's former house­keeper, who said that when Switzer interviewed her for re­search on his book, she identi­fied for him the photograph of a reporter other than Taylor. 
Ruthie Williams of Oklahoma City said she saw that second reporter, not Taylor,. meet sev­eral times with the woman liv­ing with the football player. 
Shannon Taylor. 23, a college student from Denton, and Williams were the first wit­nesses to testify in Taylor's $30 
Dawson 
continued from page 20 
ball team will be without two of its top receivers for spring practice, as Will Pollard is still recovering from shoulder surgery. 
However, the Irish still have plenty of receiving talent. Ray Griggs, who started three games in 1991, and Clint Johnson, who saw extensive playing time last season, will be present. 
Notre Dame will also have two receivers returnin to ac-million libel, slander and inva­sion of privacy lawsuit against Switzer. 
Co-defendants are Austin writer Edwin Allen "Bud" Shrake Jr.; Switzer's brother, Don Switzer; and book pub­lisher William Morrow & Co. Inc. 
In his autobiography, "Bootlegger's Boy," Switzer linked Taylor to an alleged con­spiracy to plant drugs on player Brad McBride, a reserve defensive player, after the 1988 Orange Bowl. 
Shannon Taylor said nothing could have hurt her father more than Switzer's allegation because two of her brothers have had drug problems. 
"He has always had a total aversion to any drugs whatso­ever," Shannon Taylor said of 
tion. Mike Miller, who was her­alded as the "next Rocket," has come back to school after leav­ing following the Irish's 24-14 to Michigan. 
Adrian Jarrell is back at 100 percent after recovering from a broken arm which sidelined him for the majority of 1991. Most Irish fans probably remember him for his game­winning catch in the 1990 Michigan State game. 
Nonetheless, the Notre Dame receiving corps will still miss the sure handed Dawson this spring. 
"We have enough talent to her father. 

Taylor said that when the book came out, her father gathered the family for a dis­cussion, but that, "My mother had to finish. He was breaking down." 
Because of his lawsuit against Switzer, Taylor lost his job at the Dallas Times Herald, she said, and had to take a position with a Los Angeles newspaper where he is far from family. The disruption has devastated the family's finances, and Taylor can't pay his daughter's college tuition and is unable to visit another daughter who is ill, she said. 
The problems have made Taylor "depressed, sad and melancholy all the time," she said. 
take up the slack," Griggs said. "At the same time, there will be something missing. We are like a family, we are going to miss Lake both as a personality and an athletic talent." 

Hit-and-run trial for Ex­Celt Smith underway 
BOSTON (AP) -The trial of 
former Boston Celtic Charles 
Smith, charged in the hit-and­
run deaths of two Boston 
University students nearly a 
year ago, began Monday with 
Smith's attorney calling the in­
cident "a tragic accident." 
"We concede that Charles 
Smith was driving the mini­
van and unfortunately, two 
women were killed as a 
result," Dennis Kelly said. 
But he said prosecutors will be unable to prove Smith was intoxicated at the time. 
"What happened ... was a tragic accident. It wasn't a crime," Kelly told the jury. 
Still, "this will be an emo­tional trial," he said. "It is your duty to review shocking evidence without emotion (and) assess the evidence in light of the instructions you'll receive from the judge," he said. 
Thomas Mundy, an assistant Suffolk County district attor­ney, opened by describing what began as an ordinary evening for the victims, An Trinh, 21, of Placentia, Calif., and Michelle Dartley, 20, of Ridgewood, N.J. 
He said the women, who have been described as best friends, were studying until about 1:30 a.m., when they went outside to get a snack at an all-night convenience store. 
They were struck and killed as they crossed busy Commonwealth Avenue, which splits the sprawling Boston University campus. 
Among the first witnesses was taxi driver Tochukwu Achebe, who saw the accident as he made a U-turn on Commonwealth Avenue. 
"I saw them start to cross over. They were standing side by side. I looked to my right and I saw a light blue mini­van speeding down the street,.. Achebe said, using a pointer to illustrate the vehicle's path on a diagram. 
"I saw the van strike the two students," knocking one aside 
and carrying the other a few 
feet before the body fell off. 
When the van failed to stop, 
Achebe said, he radioed in the 
accident to a dispatcher, then 
chased the vehicle across the 
Boston University bridge to 
Cambridge, then up Memorial 
Drive, across the Longfellow 
Bridge and back into Boston. 
He said the van went 
through several red lights and 
was traveling at up to 60 mph. 
Police stopped Smith about 15 minutes after the accident at Massachusetts Avenue and Boylston Street, about a mile from the accident scene. 
Noting that Achebe had been working all that night, Kelly questioned his alertness. "So you're saying you were as alert after an eight-hour shift as you were when you first got on?" Kelly asked. 
"Yes, It's not uncommon to work long hours," Achebe replied. 
Parents of both victims also took the stand Monday. Dartley's mother, Isabella, identified the torn, blood­stained poncho that her daughter was wearing when she was run down. 
Trang Trinh, An Trinh's fa­ther, identified the long red coat his daughter wore that night. Mundy said the prosecution's evidence will include several scraps of red fabric from the van's grill. 
Before the opening state­ments, Judge Robert Banks said he would allow the results of Smith's Breathalyzer test to be admitted as evidence. Smith's attorney had argued against allowing the tests, saying the machine had not been routinely tested and could be faulty. 
But prosecutors wanted the reading introduced, despite the fact that Smith recorded a blood alcohol level of .06. In Massachusetts, drunkenness must be proved by additional evidence when a Breathalyzer reading is between .06 and .10. 
Krista, 


Happy IC)th Birthday to our Million Dollar Baby! 
Love, Mom and Dad 
--------------------------, 
AnTostal·ua. Just Do It. Coming toNotre Dame in Aprilll 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

-------~-...----~----~ ~~-~---~-~----~------------------~~ 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 The Observer 
page 15 

Gartner achieves yet another scoring milestone 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -It's already been a big individual season for Mike Gartner. He hopes the best is yet to come. 
The New York Rangers' right wing has scored his 500th goal and 1,OOOth point this season, and last month became only the third player in NHL history to record 13 consecutive 30-goal 
sea;~j;_;_ 
On Monday night, Gartner inched closer to tying Frank Mahovlich for No. 11 on the NHL's all-time goal-scoring list by scoring twice in a 1:26 span of the first period to lead the Rangers to their fifth straight win, a 7-1 rout of the slumping New Jersey Devils. 
"Everything seems to be hap­pening this year," said Gartner, who has 34 goals this season and 532 for his career -one less than Mahovlich. "I just hope it culminates with the big one at the end of the year." 
For all his regular-season achievements, playing on a Stanley Cup winner has been the one blank in Gartner's ca­reer. The way the Rangers are playing, this could be the year. 
Tony Amonte added two power-play goals as the Rangers snapped a three-game losing streak in the Meadowlands Arena and won for only the fourth time in their last 13 visits. 
The Devils fell to 1-4-2 in their last seven games, includ­ing their first three-game losing streak at home since January 1991. They begin a six-game road trip Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden. 
"We're trying to get to the point where we're playing as well as we can going into the playoffs," Rangers captain Mark Messier said. "It wasn't because of New Jersey the way we played. It was because it was the Patrick Division. It wasn't because we hadn't won here all year." 
More importantly for the first­place Rangers, the two points gave them 88 for the season ami allowPrl thPm to omm a 13­
-----_____ ....., __................. ---r---­
point lead over the third-place Devils. That apparently leaves only Washington to battle New York for first place. The Capitals have 80 points and one game in hand. 
"That's as bad a beating as I've ever seen our team take," Devils coach Tom McVie said. "We just got our butts kicked. We just didn't get beat on the scoreboard, we got beat all over the rink." 
The Rangers dominated against New Jersey, which played without defensemen Viacheslav Fetisov and Scott Stevens because of injuries and slumping center Peter Stastny, who was benched. 
Still, New Jersey broke on top as rookie Kevin Todd fired a shot from the top of the left circle past Mike Richter at 8:17. 
Gartner, who had three as­sists in the Rangers' 9-4 win over Hartford on Sunday, then took over with help from line­mates Sergei Nemchinov and Jan Erixon, who had not played in nine game because of injury. 
On Gartner's first goal at 13:14, Nemchinov sent a puck deep into left corner to Erixon, who centered it. Goalie Chris Terreri stuck out his stick and deflected the puck into the air, where it apparently hit 


AP Laserfoto Mike Gartner, shown againsty the Flyers, displays the skills that have led him to numerous scoring records. 
Gartner's face shield and banked into the net. 
New York pressed again after the faceoff. Nemchinov, who would add a third-period power-play goal, got the puck behind the net and passed to Erixon in the right circle. He spun and fired, and Gartner de­flected the puck into the net. 
Amonte put a power-play re-
r-------------------~~-:--=-~-------------,
Tomorrow Don't Miss: "An Evenin2 with Lan2ston and Martin" 
featuring 

DANNY GLOVER & FELIX JUSTICE 
(from "Lethal Weapon") (Actor/Director) 
(A theatrical performance by two great actors reciting works by Langston Hughes and Dr. Martin Luther King) 
Wednesday, March 4th 
7:30 Stepan Center 

Tickets Now Available at LaFortune Info. Desk 

Student Admission $2.00 General Admission $4.00 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 



A Spring Break 
to"Remember 
Youw ...,..-lw'd ond aowll'o time to rdox and ha¥e fun! Kttp .-thlntp In mind durina your nado"' 
• You don't haft 10 be ..drunk.. to be id:apaircd~ven one or two dnnks affa-t your driving skills. 
0 
Drinklnll. drugs -clrtrlna don~ mix. 
• Take your IUI'D--be a designated driver and get: e\'eryone w~ dley are going safely 
o 
llap<et other people'• rlflb<. ond your own--<o choose noc to dnnk. There's pleruy of fun to lx: had w1thou1 alcohoL 

o 
llap<et _..._ ond campus polldes. 


• 
Don't Ad your friends drM: lm~t·s one of the fastest wavs to end a friendship. 

• 
Wear your scat bcll---tt's your best protection :l(pll\5( :1n 1mpain-d driver. 


Play It oak. Bccauoe memories arc food only Ifyou ha¥e them. 

r=or-~IXII'-=t;8ACCt«JS.P.O.Ib IOOUO.o..-.COD50.6LJO {303}171·30U I
• 
SADD/BACCHUS wishfls you a safe Spring BrQak! 
RvgistQr W QdnQsday 
and Thursday in thv dining halls and LaFortonv for a drawing for a Frvv Car and othvr grvat prizesl 
bound past a knocked-over Erixon's goal sending Terreri to 
Terreri at 2:26 of the second the bench. Amonte scored his period and defenseman Joe 28th of the season on a power Cirella took a nice pass from play against Craig Billington. Darren Turcotte and floated a Richter, who missed a month shot into the net at 15:03 for his with a thigh injury before re­first goal against his former turning on Sunday, made 37 
teammates. saves in winning his second 
Nemchinov and Erixon gave game in as many nights and their line four goals. on the night third in as many decisions in the third period, with against New Jersey this season. 
MacDermid sent to Caps in exchange for Lalor 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -The Washington Capitals acquired right wing Paul MacDermid from the Winnipeg Jets on Monday for defenseman Mike Lalor. 
Lalor, 28, moved to Washington last season from St. Louis. He has five goals and seven assists for 12 points. 
MacDermid, 29, has been with the Jets since December 1989, when he was acquired from Hartford. In 69 games with Winnipeg last season he had 15 goals and 21 assists for 36 points. So far this season, he has had 10 goals and 11 assists for 21 points and has 1 00 goals and 125 assists in 545 NHL games. 
I 
MAPLE LANE I 
I

I 
BARBERSHOP 
I 
Serving the Notre Dame 
Community for I Over 30 years 
t 

I 2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
I 

I 272-6722 
BIG LEAGOE PARTY 
PANAMA CITY! 
LAST CHANCE FOR $129 Beachfront Condo/Hotel 8 DAYS/7 NIGHTS 
FREE PARTIES! call 1-800-234-7007 NOW! VISA/MASTERCARD, DISCOVER 24 NRSo DON'T MISS OUT! 
"It's always tough trading away a classy individual like Paul," Winnipeg GM Mike Smith said. "He has been a good addi­tion over the last few years. However, our need for a good, stay-at-home, solid defenseman has become critical." 
The J~tts have been relying on defensemen like Phil Housley, Fredrik Olausson and Teppo Numminen for most of their of­fense this season. 
Housley (72 points) and Olausson (51) are 1-2 in scoring on the Jets. 
Housley's absence due to an abdominal injury was was felt Sunday when Winnipeg lost 4-2 to the Edmonton .Oilers. He isn't expected to return for at least another week. 
Goalie Bill Ranford of the Edmonton Oilers, who won all three of his decisions last week, was named on Monday as the NHL Player of the Week. 
Ranford had a 1.67 goals­against average and a .937 save percentage in the three games. 
Left wing Luc Robitaille of the Los Angeles Kings was runner­up after scoring 4 goals and 8 points in three games. 

.........------------------~ --~~---~-----~-------------~-----~~­
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Defense, Sealy leads St. John's to share of Big East title 
NEW YORK (API-St. John's beat Georgetown at its own game -defense -and clinched at least a tie for its first Big East title since 1986. 
The Redmen held the 17th­ranked Hoyas scoreless for more than seven minutes in the second half Monday night and won 65-49 behind Malik Sealy's 21 points. 
Georgetown, fourth in the na­tion defensively by holding the opposition to 39.5 percent 
c;:hnntina chnt 'l7 Q nn_..,..,...,.,....t 
~ ... ..., ........ ~~~~ ..... ! • .!~ ·-· •.•_. i-'':'! -....:-::::::.. 
against St. John's. 
"Psychologically, this means a lot to us," Sealy said. "It's the first time the seniors have been in this position." 
"We have a great feeling of emotion and jubilation and now we have to keep it going," coach Lou Carnesecca said. 
St. John's, which fell out of 
Robert Smith set to return to Buckeyesin'92 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (API ­Ohio State running back Hobert Smith is returning to the Buckeye football team, a newspaper reported. 
The Columbus Dispatch re­ported in Tuesday's editions that Smith would come back to the team Tuesday. 

Smith. who broke Archie Griffin's school rushing record for freshmen in 1990, quit the team in August in a dispute with coaches over his studies. Smith said former offensive coordinator Elliott Uzelac had asked him to skip class to at­tend a practice. 
Uzelac resigned as a Buckeye assistant last month. saying he wanted to pursue other coaching opportunities. 
Smith told The Dispatch that he and head coach John Cooper had decided during a meeting three weeks ago that Smith would return. Smith met separately with Cooper and Uzelac. 
"We'd agreed I would come back the next day and talk to the team and we'd take it from there," Smith told The Dispatch. "We'd basically all agreed we'd forget about the past, and go ahead and be mature about the thing. 
"Then a few minutes later, coach Uzelac (in a one-on-one meeting with Smith) pulled out a tape recorder and started doing what he said he wasn't going to do five minutes earlier. So that pretty much just delayed things for me. 
"I think it's sad that people think the issues are so closely related -coach Uzelac leaving and me coming back -because I had already agreed to come back to the team." 
Neither Smith nor Cooper could be reached for comment Monday night. Telephone calls to Smith's residence were not answered. Cooper was not available for comment, his wife said. Uzelac's home telephone number is not published. 
Smith, a two-time Ohio Mr. Football at Euclid High School, rushed for 1,126 yards in his freshman season and was selected Big Ten freshman of the year. 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'O.JR LIFE 
American Heart ft Association ,.., 

the Top 25 rankings after losing to Notre Dame on Saturday, has now won eight consecutive conference games. Before that, the Redmen lost five of seven, including a 61-48 defeat at Georgetown on Jan. 29 that was their last Big East loss. 
"At that point, we were just trying to stay alive, just staying afloat," Carnesecca said. "I knew we could come back, but I didn't know if we could come back to this extent." 

Seton Hall on Saturday to win the Big East outright in their final regular-season game, while Georgetown could tie with a victory over Pittsburgh and a loss by St. John's. 
Chucky Sproling scored 14 points for the Redmen, 18-8 overall and 12-5 in conference play. Alonzo Mourning had 17 points and six blocked shots for Georgetown (18-8, 11-6). 
Lamont Middleton, scoreless in the first half, gave St. John's a 37-27 lead with a jumper two minutes into the second half. 
Lonnie Harrell's 3-pointer then started a 9-2 spurt that pulled Geo~getown to 39-36 with 14:28 left in the game. 
But the Hoyas didn't score again until the 6:59 mark while St. John's scored 10 consecutive 
poi'!t~, i~clu_ding ~w?_ ~~skets 
ij;tCh by :::ieaiy alia iviililiieiun. The Redmen missed three straight free throws during the run, preventing them from extending the margin further. 
But Georgetown couldn't muster a comeback, scoring just eight points from the 14­minute mark to the one-minute mark. 
"I don't think we can play 
better than we did in the second half," Carnesecca said. "This was a night we played the way a coach hopes his team can play." 
The 49 points matched the Hoyas' lowest total in a Big East game. They lost 53-49 at Boston College in 1981 and 50-49 to Providence in 1982. 
"When the other team doesn't score on us, we like to say it's because of our defense," Georgetown coach John 
Tnompson said. "Their defense deserves a lot of credit, but we weren't doing what we wanted to do offensively." 

Thompson said at the time St. John's was losing five of seven games, it was hurt by the loss of center Robert Werdann, who pulled his right calf muscle on Dec. 28. 
"St. John's is playing with poise now and they've made the adjustment to the big guy being out," Thompson said. "They had to make not only a physical adjustment, but an emotional adjustment." 
The score was 19-19, the sev­enth tie of the first half, before a hook shot by Shawnelle Scott started a 13-4 run that gave the Redmen a 32-23 lead. 
Jason Buchanan's 3-pointer with 25 seconds left completed the spurt, but Robert Churchwell's jumper just before the buzzer closed Georgetown within seven at halftime. 
Sproling, averaging 7.8 points, had 11 in the first half for St. John's, including two three-point plays. 
Straw stirs controversy with new autobiography 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Darryl Strawberry lets loose in his soon-to-be released autobiog­raphy, criticizing the New York Mets organization for insensi­tivity to black players and de­tailing his own battles with al­cohol. 
He also says he wouldn't be surprised if then-teammate Dwight Gooden used cocaine during the 1986 National League playoffs. Gooden has denied using cocaine during the '86 postseason. 
Excerpts from Strawberry's autobiography, written with Art Rust Jr., were published in Tuesday's Los Angeles Times. 
"This was stuff I felt needed to be said," Strawberry said Monday from the Los Angeles Dodgers' spring training site in Vero Beach, Fla. "I wanted to tell what really happened in New York." 
In the book, "Darryl," Strawberry tells of the 1986 Mets during the NL playoffs against the Houston Astros: 
"I was also drinking to blot out the physical pain of having to go out there every night and work muscles that were past the point of strain. I don't know 'first hand' who else might have been abusing which substances, but months later Doc Gooden went to Smithers to recover Strawberry also criticized the from cocaine addiction. If he Mets management for giving was using cocaine during that white players preferential series, I wouldn't have been treatment over blacks. surprised in the least because the pressure was so intense, it "I began to think that all of made everybody do crazy my real emotional hang-ups things." were made even worse because 
Gooden entered the Smithers I was a black player on the Mets center April 2, 1987, one day at a time when they weren't after his drug problem was re­especially sensitive to black vealed by a test. players' issues, let alone my 
Classes held in JACC, Rolfs, and Campus Bring own equipment if possible Register in Advance at RecSports 

own personal needs. 
"I looked around me on the Mets and I saw black players come and go and I noticed that all of them had problems. Nobody was talking about Keith's Hernandez acknowl­edgment of his drug problems back in St. Louis, but they sure were talking about Mookie's Wilson 'attitude problems,' Doc's recovery program at Smithers, and 'Darryl's drink­ing·.' White players like Gary Carter were allowed to shrug off their bad seasons, but the black players, it seemed, were 'problems.' It was a double standard." 

Strawberry signed as a free agent with the Dodgers before the 1991 season. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS JPW PICTURES CAN BE ORDERED TODAY [MARCH 2) AND TUESDAY [MARCH 3) IN ROOM 108 LAFORTUNE THIS WILL BE THE ONLY OPPORTUNITY TO ORDER THESE PICTURES Questions? call Marianne at X4174 
---~----------------------~~----------------~----~---­
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 The Observer page 17 

--~
Williams eyes Olympic berth 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
Tanya Williams heads to Indianapolis next week to race in America's most competitive swimming meet, the Olympic Trials. 
Williams will compete for a spot on the Olympic team in the 100 and 200 meter backstrokes as well as the 200 individual medley. 
The trials will not have re­lays, team scores or awards. Only the top two finishers in each event become members of the U.S. Olympic Team. Although Swimming World has named favorites in each event, only performances matter at the Olympic Trials. 
Four years ago, Williams placed fifth and seventh in the 200 and 400 individual medleys as well as ninth in the 200 but­terfly. Her participation at the 1988 Olympic Trials not only established her position in the field, but also proved helpful for this year's meet. 
"It's more tense than a nor-

Tanya Williams 
mal meet because everyone's so serious," said Williams. "But I'll know what to expect which will make it easier to focus on my races." 
Next week she will compete in relatively new events, the 100 and 200 backstrokes. Williams qualified for the trials last summer at the U.S. Senior Championships with times which were competitive with the gold and silver medal times at both the Pan American and Pan Pacific games. 
"That Tanya could change strokes and be a competitor at Olympic Trials is a real tribute to her versatility as a swimmer 

SPORTSBRIEFS 
•Sportsbriefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the.Obs~rver office l)n the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name. your telephone number, and. the dates the brief is to ~n. 
•The Rowing Club Is lloolkin~a\ff()r t:o:> varsity and novice teams. Intel'Eistl'lliindiVid at 271-8466. 
<it' 
•The Observer Anyone interested Observer should 
McGrath, at The 
WE'RE PUTDNG !!R'dOS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 

and her freshness as an ath­lete," said Irish Coach Tim Welsh. 
Despite the death of swim team members Colleen Hipp and Megan Beeler, Williams has been able to prepare for competition against the coun­try's premier swimmers. 
"Tanya's practices during the last two weeks have continued to show speed every day," said Welsh. "She is recovered and ready to rest at a lifetime best level." 
Although Williams will travel without her Notre Dame team­mates, they have not forgotten her. A seventy-meter banner wishing her luck runs alongside the pool at Rolf's Aquatic Center. 
Williams begins competition on Tuesday with the 100 back­stroke. The 200 individual med­ley takes place on Thursday, followed by the 200 backstroke on Friday. 
Louisiana State tops Lady Irish; 72-62 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team (11-15, 8-4) continued to struggle outside the Midwestern Collegiate Conference last night, as the Louisiana State Lady Tigers (15-12) snapped the Irish's five­game winning streak in Baton Rouge, 72-62. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 4-0 lead, but LSU re­sponded with eight unanswered 
Base 
continued from pag~ 2G 
dollar bailplayer, there are prubabiy over a hundred others who dreamed of making it big, but for some reason or other never got the opportunity. 
Let the players play. Without the pressure of having to per­
, 

points to take a lead which they would never relinquish. 
By the 13:50 mark of the first half, the Tigers had opened up a 15-6 lead, and the closest the Irish would get before the half was six, 24-18, at 5:22. 
The teams went into the in­termission with LSU leading, 37-27. 
The Tigers then started the second half with a with a 12-4 run. This put Notre Dame down by 18 with 13:57 remaining, 49­
form up to a four-milliQ!! dulla:r contract. Thi~ wouid probably r~::;i!lt in an increase in top­flight ball players. Just look at what happened to Don Mattingly. For all his money, the Hit Man did not produce many hits last year. Meanwhile, the White Sox' Frank Thomas was a terror at the plate, finishing in the top ten in ten offensive categories, all for a bargain­basement price less than one­31. 
However, the Irish did not roll over and die, as they climbed back into the game and eventually cut the LSU lead to five, 60-55, when Sheri Olasky, who led Notre Dame with 13 points, put in a layup with 2:27 left. 
The Tigers were able to with­stand the pressure as they hit seven of eight free throws in the final minute of the g~me tu hang on for tht: victory. 
hundred grand. 
So ballplayers, worry a little less about how much money you make and a little more about performing your best. And to the owners, getting the most from your employees for the least money would seem like a wise business investment. I guess, however, in this time of recession, that playing ball is one of the best jobs to have. If only I could throw that slider ... 


NCAA appearance. There is no doubt the Irish
Hoops 
will be motivated for tonight's game, as it is the final home
continued from page 20 
game for seniors Elmer Bennett, Daimon Sweet, KeithOffensively, Notre Dame will Tower and LaPhonso Ellis. 
face a team which shows sev­
Money 

"The seniors know it is their
eral different defenses 
last hurrah, and they want to
throughout the course of a
for 

go out on a high note,"game. One of them being a 
MacLeod said. "I just hope thatlethal full-court press. 
they don't try too hard and rush"You can't run plays against a things."
press. Our players are going to "Though things haven't al­have to react and find the open ways go:.1e my way, I'll alwaysman," MacLeod commented. 
tBrea 

love Notre Dame and the fans.
Despite Xavier's recent NCAA We'd like to go out and give
Tournament success, the 
them one more good show,"Musketeers have not been given Tower commented. 
Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
a lot of national attention this "However, we are not going to season. However, they have play like it is our last game. We
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
won four of their last five 
are going out their to get a wingames and are could be head­over Xavier."
ing to their seventh straight
• 
Only 12% APR, fixed rate 


• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 


The Obseruer 
• Deferred Payments 

has positions auailable for 
• Students with good credit or no credit qualify 
No co-signer is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
Day Editor 
Contoct Colleen Knight ot 239-7471
~ 

or ·283-4900 by Thursdoy 3/4
NOTRE DAME 

Must be oueileble 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Wednesday end Thursday 
Afternoons
239-6611 • Independent of the University 
____________________j 
--------------------------------------------~-~------­
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Dilucia-less Irish find success 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's tenth-ranked men's tennis team demon­strated its dominance over re­gional foes last weekend, de­feating Northwestern and Illinois on the road. 
The Irish (8-1, 4-0 in regional play) played the two dual matches without second-ranked David DiLucia, who watched from the sidelines, hampered by a groin injury. But the senior was supplanted by a lineup which may be a preview of next year's Irish squad, and the ju­nior-dominated team thrashed the Huskies 7-2 and Illini 9-0. 
"We expected to win, but it's nice to do it when Dave's out," said Irish coach Bayliss. "This was next year's team. Depending on the freshmen we get, this could be the singles lineup next fall." 
With 36th-ranked Andy Zurcher at number-one singles, the Irish dropped only two matches over the two days, and lost only two sets Sunday afternoon against Illinois (6-2). 
The wins were especially im­portant for the team because of their regional status. Teams can qualify for the NCAA tour­nament in May by virtue of a regional championship or an at­large bid. 
"We've won the (Midwest) re­gion the last two years," said Bayliss. "But we have never gone undefeated in the region, and that has always been a goal." 
This weekend's performance, coupled with Notre Dame's third-place finish at the National Team Indoors last weekend, may propel the Irish from number ten into the top five when the new national rankings are released March 10. 
"The new rankings are com­ing out, but I am not worried about them," said Bayliss. "Not until the end of the season." 
DiLucia is expected to return to action this week when the Irish travel to Corpus Christi, Texas for the H.E.B. Classic, the team's first competitive outdoor action of the spring season. 
"He {DiLucia) is better each day," Bayliss said. "He can run either way, but having to split and change direction is a prob­lem." 

Women's tennis falls to 3-4, after winless weekend at Eck Pavilion 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 
It was not all smooth sailing at the Eck Tennis Pavillion this weekend as the Notre Dame women's tennis team fell to Kentucky and North Carolina. 
Against the 21st-ranked WilcicaiS, tbe Irish (3-4), who have now lost three iu a row, quickly fell behind 3-0 in sin­gles. Top-singles player Melissa Harris, ranked seventh nation­ally, lost to Susan Klingenberg, 6-2, 6-1. Following that, Terri Vitale dropped a 6-3, 6-2 deci­sion to Susan Bartl at fifth sin­gles and Ann Bradshaw fell by a 7-6, 6-3 count to Chris Yario at the sixth slot. 
The Irish picked things up, though, winning the next two singles matches. Lisa Tholen chalked up a thrilling 1-6, 6-1, 7-5 win at fourth singles over Marina Sansostri, while doubles partner Christy Faustmann held off Nicky Wangsgard 4-6, 6-3, ;-5 at third singles to pull the Irish within one, 3-2. 
The comeback ended when Kentucky's Lora Suttile pulled out a tough 4-6, 7-5, 6-4 win over Laura Schwab at second singles to give the Wildcats a comfortable 4-2 lead going into doubles. 
The' Irish doubles teams played valiantly, but none could escape with a victory as Kentucky pulled away to a 7-2 dual-match win. Faustmann and Tholen lost to Klingenberg and Antoinette Grech 6-2, 7-5 at first doubles, while Eniko Bende and Bradshaw suc­cumbed to Wangsgard and Yario 6-2, 2-6.7-5 at the second position. In the final doubles match, Bartl and Suttlle outlasted Harris and Schwab 6­
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSCI:IATJON 
MEMORIAL PRCI;RAM. 
WE'RE FIGHTII\JG FOR 'OJRLIFE 

American Heart i~ 
Association~ 

This space provided as a public serv1ce. 
... 
2, 2-6, 6-3. 
"Kentucky was a close match," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "and they were definitely the better of the two teams we played this weekend. We lost a couple of three-setters and that got us in trouble." 
Hoping to turn things around on Sunday against North Carolina, the Irish again fell in a hole in singles. The Tar Heels' Gigi Neely ;rftbstood a tough battle from Bradshaw <i! the sixth slot, 6-4, 6-4 to start things off. Harris then fell to third-ranked Cinda Gurney 6-2, 7-5 at first singles, and the Irish found themselves down by two. 
Tholen put the Irish on the board with a 7-5, 6-2 triumph over Nicole Transou at fourth singles, but after Laura Schwab fell to Carolina's Angela Bernal, 6-2, 5-7, 61, the Irish were again down by two. 
Terri Vitale pulled the Irish close with a 6-2, 7-6 victory over Scotti Thomas at fifth sin­gles, but Alisha Portnoy's 1-6, 7-6, 6-2 victory over Faustmann put the score at 4-2 after singles and the Irish in the uncomfortable position of 

Notre Dame started Saturday strong, with Zurcher and 43rd­ranked Will Forsyth picking up wins against their Husky oppo­nents. Number-three singles player Chuck Coleman played two tough sets against Northwestern's Mark Eisen, but fell short in the finale, giving the Irish their only singles loss of the weekend. Mark Schmidt, Chris Wojtalik and Ron Rosas pounded out straight-set victories against the Huskies. 
At number-one doubles, the Irish ran into some trouble, as Giora Payes and Mark Eisen of Northwestern downed the usual number-two Notre Dame team of Andy Zurcher and Will Forsyth in straight sets, 6-2, 6­3. 
But Bayliss shuffled the dou­bles lineup against Illinois, and Mark Schmidt and Chris Wojtalik dominated the top Illini team 6-4, 6-2. Zurcher and Tony Payumo won tough 6-4, 5­7, 7-6 decision over Illinois' number-two tandem, while Tad 

.},.. i. .~. * • •• "\ ·~ "...~~ ~> ':, ::J!«' l '~ tC~ ~ .
Eckert and Tommy North completed a perfect weekend at t~ttt•··~ 1 ~...... .;..-. . .... , number-three singles with a 6­
. . The ObseNMI T. Raymond4, 6-0 win. Ron Rosas, shown here 1n practice, was a key figure in Notre Dame's success the past weekend. 
Available at campus and local bookstores ST. MART I N' S P R E S S 
having to sweep the doubles 
matches to come away with a 
victory. 
"Today, when we got down in the singles, it just killed us," said Louderback. "We're going into the doubles too often down 4-2, and then we lose close doubles matches. It's hard to win doubles matches when you know you have to win all of them. We've got to win some singles matches." 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame t;G"U!d not muster the firepower needed, fatii;;g !n all three dou­bles matches. At secGnct dou­bles, Bernal and Transou over­powered Bende and Bradshaw 6-1, 6-2 to give the Tar Heels the dual match. At third dou­bles, Harris and Schwab fell to Kelly Sharp and Thomas, 7-6, 6-2. 
Between the conclusion of third and first doubles, Freddy Uihlein pulled out a close 6-2, 6-7, 6-4 victory over the Irish' Catherine McGinley at seventh singles. First doubles ended with Faustmann and Tholen on the losing end of a 6-2, 6-4 margin to Gurney and Portnoy, and the Irish left with another 7-2 loss. 
The team has dropped three straight to highly regarded op­ponents, and will need to pull off a few big wins against simi­lar opposition if they hope to return to the national spotlight. The depth of the team and their competitive nature, should en­able the Irish to bounce back against Northwestern on Thursday in a key regional match. 
Despite the losses, there were still a few bright spots for the Irish, according to Louderback. 
"Lisa Tholen played real well all weekend, coming back from being do>~'n to win the matches. 
Christy Faustmann, up until she let the girl (UNC) back in the second set, played as well as I've seen her play. Terri played a really great tie-breaker today to finish the match." 
The Irish prepare for Northwestern facing the possi­bility of starting a spring-break trip on a four-game skid, so they will most likely be fired up for the match. 
"It would be great to get a win over Northwestern." said Louderback, "It's a big match for us. It's in the region and it's a team I think we should beat. We've got to come out and do it." 
SUMMER SCHOOL 
r-------------~ 
1992 

eorgetown 
UNIVERSITY 
.------------~  MAY IS-JUNE 12  I'I{E-SESSION  
IJUNES-JULY 10  FIHSTSESSION  
JUNES-JULY 31  EH;IIT-WEEKCHOSSSESSION  
._______________j  JULY 13-AUGUST 14 SECOND SESSION  

During the summer months (ieorgetown t"1niver­sity's School for Summer and Continuing Education offers more than 300 regular graduate and under­graduate courses for all srudems. Visiting students from other colleges and universities can earn credits which are ordinarily transferrable to their own degree programs. Summer courses are taught by members of Georgetown's distinguished faculty and other visiting scholars. 
Enrollment is open to all studems in good standing at Georgetown and all other colleges and universities, foreign students with a TOEFL score of 550 or ab<~e (600 for linguistics courses) and individuals whose educational background and experience qualify them for the courses they wish to take. 
Catalogues along with the application form are avail­able by phone request 202-6H7-5Y42, fax request 202­6H7-H954 or mail request to: Georgetown Universitv, SSCE/306 ICC, Washington, D.C. 20057-1075. ­
Information foro The FnF;Iish tiS a Forei{;fl 1.1111{;1/tJ{;e ProKmm oro HiF;h Srhool Pro{;rmns is available through separate brochures. Please check the appropriate box to receive information. 
------STATE ZIP 
(,'I'IJIJ!.flo~··ll f'llit·n-sill' if 1111 'fJIItlf oppiJriNIIIII'Itt/firmatit·r (((flflll in.fliiN/illlt 111 rmpltJ!'IIIf/lf ffml IIIIIJIJ.UitJII.c 

-------~------. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 The Observer page 19 CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

ACROSS 
1 Thin, flat cracker 
6 Dance routine 10 Defense mechanism 11 Plant shoots 13 Post office job 14 Erratum 16 Paddle 17 Clothing 19 Bathroom 20 Mr. Arkin 22 Beauty mark 23 Airborne object 24 Window part25""-we forget" 26-tube 27 Flower parts 8 Corrode 
9 Type of candy 10 Australian sights Tuesday11 Food fish 
7 p.m. Film: "Rope." Auditorium, Science Hall, SMC. Sponsored
12 Performs 1ike 
Scott Hamilton by Popular Culture Group, Saint Mary's College. 8 p.m. Music of Paul Johnson, Notre Dame faculty composer.
13 -opera 
15 Tennis great Featuring Georgine Resick, soprano and Computer Compostitions. 18 Mr. Hart Washington Hall. Sponsored by music department. 
21 Closest 
9 p.m. Iceberg Debates, Finals. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 
23 Patella 
Sponsored by Student Government. 
25 Eye part 
26 Golf club 9 p.m. Film: "Red Psalm." Annenberg Auditorium. 
28 Name in Cohan song 29 Like old ginger ale 31 With 36-Down, Polynesian kingdom 32 With 47-Down, police setup 33 Like most roads 34 Preserved, as 
LECTURES
fodder 35-lift 36 See 31-Down 37 Pushes 39 Cheer up Tuesday41 Caught sight of 3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar: "Photocatalytic Treatment of 
43 Freshen 
Contaminated Water and Air," Daivd Ollis, North Carolina State
46 Aspect 
University, Raleigh, NC. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by 47 See 32-Down 48 Broadway show chemical engineering. 51 Swiss river 7 p.m. Lecture: "The Archaeology of Old College Site," Dr. Mark
53 Fury 
Schurr, visiting professor of anthropology. A slide presentation of 
the findings of the archaeological dig that took place on the Notre Dame campus, Summer 1991. Library Lounge. 
29 Most independent 52 Mentally exhausted 30 Carry on 54 Muffle 31 Sheet of ice 55 Nixon cabinet mem­
32 Is in the driver's ber, and family seat 56 Picked a card 
35 Mule of the movies 57 Town in Belgium38 Colorful flower 39 Cafe au ­

DOWN MENU
40 Tennis great 42 Formerly 1 Guarantee 43 College in Houston 2 Mr. Buchwald Notre Dame Saint Mary's 44 Stratagem 3 Square's partner Chicken Fajitas Broiled Chicken • 45 Assam silkworm 4 Sicilian volcano 
Beef and Been Burrito Beef Stew over Biscuits
46 Musical interval 5 Military unit 

Quesadillas
49 Fifth-6 Backbone Mushroom Quiche 50 Lightweight fabric 7 The GMAT, for one Deli Bar 
l 

Tomorrow Don't Miss: 11 An Evenin~ with Langston and Martin11 
featuring 
DANNY GLOVER & FELIX JUSTICE 
(from "Lethal Weapon") (Actor/Director) 
Wednesday, March 4th 
7:30 Stepan Center Tickets Now Available at LaFortune Info. Desk 

-
Student Admission $2.00 General Admission $4.00 
(A theatrical performance by two great actors 
10

reciting works by La~gston Hug~~~~_D_r~·~M_a~r~t-~~L~u_th~er~K~in~g~)~~~~~~-u_o_EN_r_u_N__N_s_~_R_o~ 
..__ 
• 
-
page 20 
RICH SZABO 
from the Sidelines 

Baseball salaries 
threaten integrity of 
America's game 
How many of you people out there 
wanted to be professional ballplayers 
when you were little? 
I'm sure most guys have, at one 
time or another, envisioned 
themselves smacking it over the right 
field bleachers in the bottom of the 
ninth. Game 7 of the World Series. 
Maybe pitching was your thing, and 
you would strike out the side on nine 
pitches to clinch the crown. This game 
of dreams has become corrupt lately. 
due to the fact that society places too 
much emphasis on the almighty 
dollar. 
Picture this scenario: from little league to college, to a phenom that spends only one day in minor-league ball. In his first year in the big leagues he earns $80,000. Not bad, right. Wrong. That's small change considering in the current era of salary atrocity, 273 baseball players make more than $1.000,000 a year. 
Bobby Bonilla of the New York Mets is going to rake in a cool $6.1 million this season to. in the words of a very wist> coach from /Jull Durham. "throw the ball, hit the ball. and catch the ball." 
I'm not saying that it's wrong of team owners to shell out high salaries to star players, but things are getting out of hand. In each of the last six years. the number of millionaires in the major leagues has increased by no less than 20%. Just recently George Steinbrenner spent millions to sign Lee Guetterman (? ). who probably couldn't throw a better slider than Steinbrenner himself. 
Baseball is supposed to be America's game, something to enjoy. Instead. it's becoming more like a business than a game. Owners are shelling out obscene amounts of cash for players who are not worth that much money. 
Those who make it big can also count on endorsements to bring in even more revenues. Although I admire him tremendously as an athlete. I'm not going to take Advil for my muscle pains just because Nolan Hyan does (although if any one ballplayer is worth his money, it's Nolan). 
We seem to be losing touch with the reason why we play the game. A sport once highlighted by the play on the field, has taken a back seat to the greed of the owners. 
The players are not free of greed by any means. Who really cares who makes $800,000 or $1.1 million a year. You're not going to spend all that money anyway. so what's the point of salary arbitration? 
However, everyone is out to make a buck these days, ballplayers and owners included, and next year we will probably see baseball's first $8­million man. But for every million-
see BASE/page 17 
INSIDESPORTS 
Men's tennis completes successful weekend see page 18 
Williams prepares for Olympic Trials see page 17 
Tarkanian ponders future see page 12 

Sports 
Tuesday, March 3, 1992 
Dawson due to miss spring practice for personal reasons 
By MIKE SCRUDATO nature of the problems. Sports Writer However, neither Dawson's Notre Dame football nor aca­What is going on with Lake demic career is over. Dawson? He will not be participating in 
This question has been asked the upcoming spring drills, but all over the Notre Dame campus Dawson plans to return to Notre throughout the past two weeks. Dame. His absence from classes has "I will be back in school in led to speculation of his status June, and I will be back with as a student and a member of the team in the fall," Dawson the football team. added. 
Unconfirmed rumors are cir­Jim Daves, associate sports culating that Dawson has been information director, confirmed expelled or suspended from the that Dawson had left school for University after he was caught personal reasons, and he cheating on an accounting believes that Dawson is exam. attending classes at a school in 
However, no one has verified Washington. this. What little substantiative "If he meets the requirements. information made available has he can come back in the fall," come from Dawson himself. Daves added. 
In a phone interview Monday Neither the athletic depart­from his home in Federal Way, ment nor the football office Washington, Dawson stated that could be reached for comment it was his decision to leave on the situation. school for the spring semester. The fact that Dawson is at 
"I had to take care of some home for the remainder of the personal problems here, at semester means that the foot-home," Dawson said. 
see DAWSON/page 14 
He refused to comment on the 
Irish host Xavier in seniors' farewell 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer 
According to Notre Dame coaeh John MacLeod the NCAA Tournament is not the main concern of the men's basketball team. 
"Hight now, our only thought is Xavier. Whatever happens later will happen." MacLeod commented. "We must take care of our business first. A couple weeks ago, we got ahead of ourselves." 
Despite MacLeod's feelings. a lot of Notre Dame fans will have the tourney on their minds when they come to the Joyce ACC at 7:30 p.m. for tonight's contest. 
For any hopes of an NCAA bid to remain. the Irish must get past the 15-9 Musketeers. which will not be an easy task. 
"This is another very good Xavier team," MacLeod said. "Xavier has a lot of explosive offensive ability and a great offensive rebounding team. 
"Defensively, they present a lot of problems because they use multiple defensive schemes." 
The Musketeers are currently tied with Evansville for first place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference and defeated Dayton on the road, 72-56, on Saturday. 
Xavier has compiled a 7-2 record in the MCC, while the Irish are only 2-3 against MCC foes. 
"We have not matched well (against MCC teams)." MacLeod commented. "We have not been ready for them. 
"The MCC teams are very good clubs. They 
The Observer/John Bingham 

see HOOPS/page 17 
Damon Sweet, shown here against UCLA, will be one of four seniors competing in their last game at the JACC Arena. 
Eleventh-ranked Irish take Service Academies Classic 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
to go out there and attack three for three, scored two Sports Writer batters." said Counsell. "We runs and batted in another to hadn't had a bid offensive day lead the Irish attack. 
The Notre Dame baseball in the previous three games In the semifinals, Notre team opened its season by and we were due to explode." Dame flew past Air Force 12­taking the third annual The Irish did not dominate 4, taking advantage of three Service Academies Classic in the three games leading up to Falcon errors. A seven-run Millington, Tennessee. the matchup with Memphis third inning gave pitcher 
The 11th-ranked Irish took State. but still looked impres­Tom Price enough breathing the title by compiling a 4-0 sive. room to earn his first win of record in the tournament. In the first game of Friday's the season. Notre Dame outscwed their doubleheader, Irish pitcher The 4-0 start gives Notre opponents 31-11, and outhit Pat Leahy Chris Michalak out-dueled Dame a taste of success that the four teams they faced 27-Army's Lance Boyle allowing should affect the way they
A balanced offensive attack 
20. only four hits over seven in­play from here on out.
supported Leahy's effort. 
The greatest display of nings, in Notre Dame's 2-1 "It's a great way to start the
Seven of the twelve Irish bat­
Notre Dame's dominance victory. season," said Counsell. "It's
ters recorded hits, with the 
came in the championship The pitching wasn't as im­helpful to start off the season
majority of them occurred in 
game against Memphis State. pressive in the second game. on a high note." 
the first inning when Notre 
Pat Leahy took the mound for Notre Dame and Army used Coach Pat Murphy also feels 
Dame exploded for e·ight
the Irish, and never left. The three pitchers apiece, and the his team will find success as
runs. Third baseman Craig
righthanded junior went the two staffs combined to allow the season progresses.
Counsell and freshman Paul 
distance, allowing only one fifteen hits. Despite being "We're going to be a good
Failla had two RBis apiece. 
hit in seven innings of work. outhit nine to six the Irish team," stated Murphy.
"I think going up early
He also taHied seven squeaked by with a 7-6 win. "There's no question about
made it easier for Pat (Leahy) 
strikeouts. Senior Joe Binkiewicz went it." 





