



saint Marys College 
NOTRE DAME •INDIANA 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S VOL. XXIV NO. 84 
Rodgers-Rose: Blacks must recognize identity 
By NICOLE MCGRATH came from is important. " I News Writer never want to forget how I got 
to Drew University", said 
Rodgers-Rose. 
Coming to terms with one's "Read your history; it's real. own self-identity is crucial to You must feel the pain of what coming into one's own black it meant to have your hopes up identity, according to La and then they take the vote Francis Rodgers-Rose, profes­away from you, "said Rodgers­sor at Drew University. Rose in reference to the period 
"One of the unique things after the Civil War. about African people is that There are parallels to be they have stayed close to their made to that time period and ancestors," said Rodgers-Rose the one today after the 1960s in a lecture called "Uniting the Civil Rights Movement, she Black Race to Move Forward said. 
into the 90s". About forty years ago, two­
African-Americans have to parent families made up 7 5% of function in situations where black families while today it is their identity as an African­close to 50%, according to Dr. American is denied, she said. Rodgers-Rose. 
Rodgers-Rose stressed that Important to note is that by who we are, where we came the year 2000, the workforce from and who our real enemies will be heavily composed of are must be recognized. women and people of color. 
"Something is missing from According to Rodgers-Rose, to­me," said Rodgers-Rose when day whites make up 14% of the she spoke of experiences in col­world's population. "We are the lege. She was encouraged not majority. We are not minority," to major in education for fear she said. of supporting black identity. We are living in a country Rodgers-Rose majored in soci­more racist than ever before, ology. She found that without said Rodgers-Rose. She pointed any kind of concentration in out that men such as David education, she could not teach Duke were only the "tip of the nor find a job. iceberg." With the spotlight on 
Rodgers-Rose went back to the Dahmer trial, she said that school. In 1964, she went on to no one is focusing on the pain be the rmlv black faculty mem­of those victims' families. 
The Observer/Oavid Hungeling
ber at a college in Minnesota. "Movements and changes al­''I'm a Born Again African; so ways come from the younger Tough decisions happy to be born into my generation," said Rodgers­
Tom Zipprich muses over potential movie rentals at ND Video. The student-run store is located in the
African self. I don't allow any­Rose. According to her, this 
basement of LaFortune. 
one to question who I am," she country only understands mas­said. sive civil disobedience and it is "I have seen us do a 360 de­coming. grees a turning away from Rodgers-Rose said that Vant named 1992-93 Editor-in-Chief 
self," she said. According to changes have to begin within Rodgers-Rose, she believes the community. For college 
By DAVID KINNEY still address the day-to-day
African-Americans have been students, treating each other Associate News Editor happenings in the community,dismantled since 1961. with respect and living by 
as well as special issues like the 
When she was at the March Maat, an Egyptian term which continuation of theof Washington in 1963, means respect, will lead to Monica Yant has been elected Sesquicentennial celebrationRodgers-Rose said, " It was a positive racial relations. the 1992-93 Observer Editor-in­and the 20th anniversary of
big joke. By the time Martin We have to be self-confident, Chief by the newspaper's women at Notre Dame." Luther King gave his 'I Have A said Rodgers-Rose. With the General Board yesterday. 
She has worked with The
Dream' speech, it was all for fastest growing population of Yant is a junior American Observer since her freshmanthe public." AIDS being college students, Studies major from Fort Wayne, year, serving as news editor for 
But Rodgers-Rose she urged being self-confident Ind. 
1991-92. She also served as as­said,"Before you say too many enough to ask your partner "I believe that The Observer sociate news editor, assistantnegative things, look at some of about safe sex. is a vital and necessary compo­news editor and news copy edi­
the good things he ( Marion "Do not let anyone tell you, nent of the Notre Dame and tor.Barry ) did in his past." She you do not come from a great Saint Mary's community and I A senior staff reporter, Yant 
says to look to your elders past", said Rodgers-Rose. "The am honored to have the chance has won awards for news,whom have wisdom to pass most important thing you can to make our publication even series and column writingonto you. do in your life is gain self­better," Yant said. from Indiana
awards the
Having a sense of where we knowledge." 
Yant said she plans to con-Collegiate Press Association. 

Rifkin transforms environmental crisis to personal responsibility 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI our ability to entirely alter the rights of future generations of is grown for cattle and live­News Writer biosphere of a planet in this • Fireside chat/ page 3 humans and other creatures; as stock, not for people. According solar system." opposed to the old concept of to Rifkin, in this age of growth, He said that the majority of rent world view, Rifkin advo­"more production and greater more people go to bed hungry
"Why should I be telling you civilization's effect on this cates reevaluating our percep­wealth." (25%) than in any other period. the obvious?" Jeremy Rifkin planet has taken place in the tion of "growth." In terms of immediate action, "You can give up 50 percentasked his listeners Wednesday last 100 years. "We are produc­"Our entire being is bor­Rifkin is planning an all out of the beef and help restore the night in a lecture that trans­ing and consuming faster than rowed," he said, "do you see campaign to increase aware­planet, feed the poor and re­formed the environmental crisis nature can recycle the pollu­any ethics in the word grow­ness that there is an alternative store our health." into an issue of personal re­tion-that's the environmental ing?" to beef. sponsibility. crisis. Because all our resources, in­"Cattle are the number one As for a world view, Rifkin 
For Rifkin, the consequences "Our production schedules cluding ourselves, are bor­environmental threat on the claims "a total leap of con­of industrialization and other are based on a profit and con­rowed, Rifkin argues that we planet today," he said, "Beef sciousness by this generation"technological advancements on sumption basis that bears no have the responsibility to sus­results in cancer, strokes and will be necessary to stop the 
the environment are beyond ob­relationship to nature's own tain the environment. "We need diabetes; cattle are the number global environmental crisis. vious. As a result, he has dedi­time frame," Rifkin added. to develop a new generation of one environmental threat to de­cated his time to making such "If we think it's barbaric to technology that will sustain forestation in South America, "Are all living creatures just consequences obvious to the treat our loved ones efficiently, rather than drain the environ­the desertification of sub­matter for manipulation; do we rest of society. why would it be any different in ment-that works with rather Sahara Africa and the erosion see ourselves as just an instru­
In last night's lecture, "The our social relationships, politi­than against the ecosystem." of the western range of the ment of production-or do we Greenhouse Doomsday cal relationships, economic re­Rifkin also has a new concept United States." resolidify our relationships to 
Scenario," Rifkin said "the lationships and our planetary for progress: enhance the well­each other as fellow creatures greatest display of power in the relationships?" asked Rifkin. being of the community, stew­He added that 70 percent of on this living earth?" Rifkin history of the earth has been Along with changing our cur-ard the resources, protect the all the grain grown in America asked. 



page 2 Thursday, January 30, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A new wager: Christianity is insanity 
Christianity must be-------­

the most ridiculous thing 
ever invented. The 
amazing thing is the 
influence it has upon 
masses of people 
throughout this world. 
There is no evidence that 
absolutely proves the R. Garr 
existence of God, but Schwartz 
people still believe. I ask Sports Photo 
people why and how they 
could possibly believe in -----'=E'-"d"-'it~o.:....r--­
a God. People always tell me the same thing, 
they have faith. Everything about God comes 
down to faith. I wondered exactly what faith 
is, so I looked it up in Webster's. Faith is "the 
unquestioning belief that does not require 
proof or evidence." In other words faith is, 
"the state of being mentally ill, because of 
reliance on illogical reasoning." 
I was talking to a friend, and asked how he could have faith in anything. He tried to explain faith to me, but that did not work. Then he brought up Pascal's Wager, which basically states that if a person believes in a God, and he is right, he receives a finite time on Earth but an infinite time of happiness in heaven. If he is wrong, he just dies. The per­son that does not believe in a God, regardless if he is right. receives only finite happiness. If he is wrong, he receives eternal damnation. 
I have never said whether or not I believe in a God, but after I had written once, I received a letter from a priest that said, "I do hope someone prays for you to save your soul, or you will get a big surprise when you die and find yourself among the damned." I scoffed when I read that, because instead of Pascal's Wager, I have made my own wager on life after death. 
I was raised a Catholic, and all my life I have been told that God is an all forgiving god, and that if I am truly sorry for my sins He will forgive me. And when I die, if I have any iodination at all that there is some type of afterlife, I will be really sorry for anything that I have done against His wishes. I mean, I would be really sorry. 
I do not believe in a hell anyway, hell is just a concoction made up by the inventors of Christianity. They needed some reason to cause people to have faith, and what better way than to scare them into faith. I do not see how anyone could be punished so severely to be damned to a place like hell. Everybody grows up in different circumstances, and are born with different genetic traits, and people are brainwashed as they grow up in different ways. What about the people who are not brainwashed into Christianity, and what about the people who grow up in an earthly world of hell, how could those people ever be judged into an infinity of hell. 
I feel that God would understand that I have trouble believing in illogical things that are unsubstantiated. I think He would not question why I would reject something that tells me to go against my natural desires. I believe an all-knowing God would be happy when I refuse to be a faithful believer, who is unquestioning and not requiring of any proof or evidence. 
If you do believe in a God and you do have faith, explain senseless tragedies in which innocent people die. And I ask you where is your God, Christian, explain your faith now. 
The views are those of the author and no~ necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Production 
Frank Rivera Kathy Fang Kelly Lynch Cheryl Moser 
Sports/Scoreboard Viewpoint 
Rolando de Aguiar Dave Devine 
Business Systems 
Colleen Gannon Fritz Valsaint 
Andy Runkle 
Cheryl Maser The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
PrBSSurs 
H L ~~'~J ~ m E:J ~ 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
..:·· :·:=· ..:::·: :·:::·:. :':·:::::::::···..· 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
FORECAST: 
Mostly cloudy and warmer today. High in the middle 40s. Cloudy and cool tonight with temperatures in the 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Amslerdam 39 25 Atlanta 50 48 Bogota 66 39 Boston 32 28 Brisbane 82 68 Chicago 33 28 Denver 59 25 Evansville 39 25 Fairbanks -02 -07 Great Falls 56 35 Honolulu 83 72 Houston 54 52 London 45 39 Los Angeles 69 52 Miami Beach 77 72 Mpls-St. Paul 27 22 New Vorl< 41 31 Paris 39 30 Philadelphia 46 26 Santiago 84 59 San Diego 70 50 South Bend 38 28 Tokyo 59 39 Tulsa 57 34 
Washington, D.C. 48 29 
WORLD 
Russian elephant loses fight for life 
•MOSCOW -Masha, an elephant found frostbitten and starving at a cash-strapped zoo south of Moscow, has lost the fight for her life despite the best efforts of the Moscow Circus. Too weak to stand, Masha died Tuesday after two weeks of efforts to nurse her back to strength. Her plight had inspired an outpouring of sympathy and donations of food since she was rescued in Volgograd, about 500 miles south of Moscow. The death of the 32-year-old elephant -who might have lived four more decades -underscores the plight of many circus and zoo animals in an economy where people are having enough trouble just feeding themselves. 


NATIONAL 
•PASADENA, Caif. -Magellan's Venus-mapping will end next year instead of 1995 -not because of faulty equipment but because of a lack of money. NASA's decision to shut down the project came as the spacecraft resumed mapping after a three-week breakdown. Jim Scott, manager of the project, said NASA headquarters informed him last week that the mission will end in 1993 to save $80 million. NASA officials "have other planetary missions that need money, and they never got into the congressional budget money for an extended mission for Magellan," he said. 
CAMPUS Kell~ to sgeak on ethics in journalism 
•NO RE DAME, lnd.-Chicago photographer Tony Kelly will focus on ethics in photojournalism in a presentation. "Manipulating Reality: Modern Newspaper Photography and New Ethical Problems," at 
7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. Kelly will discuss dilemmas posed by new technology which allows for the alteration of photographic images. Kelly's work has appeared in Life, Time, Newsweek, U.S. News and World Report, Ebony and many other nationally and internationally renowned publications. He also writes and is an adjunct professor at Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism. 

OF INTEREST 
•Troop 
Notre Dame will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 9:30 p.m. in Room 219, Rockne Memorial. All interested students are welcome to at­tend. 

•The 
Center for Basic Learning Skills is having an orientation meeting tonight at 5:00 p.m. in the esc. Anyone interested in tutoring adults two hours per week in reading, writing, and math is wel­come. Call Katie (3706} for more information. 

•urban 
Plungers of this year and past years are invited to join in conversation and a question and an­swer period with Lou Nanni and Mary Yu on Monday, February 3, 6:30-7:30 p.m. in the TV Lounge of Siegfried Hall. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ January 29 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX -9­248,970,500 226.64 v 2.31 
n-...-..,_s.&J COMPOSITE 410.34 -f 4.62 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3224.96 -f 47.18 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD 1}-$0.20 to $356.10/oz. 
SILVER .. 6.0¢ to $4.248/oz. 

•Volunteers 
are needed for COUNSELINE, a service of the University Counseling Center for the NO and SMC community. If you are interested, n organi­zational/training meeting will take place tonight at 7:00p.m. in Room 300 of the Counseling Center. 

•The 
Student advocates and volunteers for the Elderly will be be having an informational meet­ing tonight at 7:00 in the CSC. Any questions, call Eleanor Starkey at 283-1369. 

•Iceberg 
Debaters, if you did not attend last night's meeting you must attend tonight's at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. See you there. 

•Juniors, 
seniors or graduate students in­terested in pursuing an environmental career are eli­gible for a CEIP Fund Student Initiated Project (SIP} for the summer. Applications guidelines are available by contacting The CEIP Fund, Great Lakes Office, 50 Public Square, Suite 628, Cleveland, OH, 44113. The deadline for applications is Feb. 28. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1948: Indian political and spiritual leader Mohandas Gandhi, who had led his nation to independence from British rule through his philosophy of non-violent confrontation, was murdered by a Hindu extremist. 

• 
In 1933: Adolf Hitler was named chancellor of Germany. 

• 
In 1968: Communist forces launched surprise attacks against South Vietnamese provincial capitals in what became known as the Tet Offensive -named for the Lunar New Year. 

• 
In 1972: Twenty years ago, 13 Roman Catholic civil rights marchers were shot to death by British soldiers in Northern Ireland on what became known as "Bloody Sunday." 





Please recycle this paper 

% 


12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.00% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
~r. 

6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent from the University of Notre Dame The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, January 30, 1992 
Yeltsin: Russia will no longer aim missiles at America 





Baker: U.S. will consider not targeting Russia 
MOSCOW (AP) -Boris Yeltsin unveiled an ambitious plan to cut nuclear weapons spending Wednesday and urged the United States and other nuclear powers to "move much farther along the road" to dis­armament. 
And in a dramatic shift away from more than 40 years of Cold War hostility, the Russian president said his republic's nuclear warheads would no longer be aimed at any targets in the United States. 
Yeltsin's first major pro­nouncement on disarmament carne only a few hours after President Bush proposed in his State of the Union speech that the United States and Russia take big bites from their nu­clear arsenals. 
In a nationwide broadcast, Yeltsin told the Russian people he is ending production of two big bombers and long-range cruise missiles and stopping development of new offensive nuclear weapons. 
Those were among several cutbaeks in nuclear programs designed to reduce Russian military spending 10 pereent this year, on top of last year's 20 percent cut. That will allow 

MOSCOW (AP) -The United long-range nuclear warheads States will consider not aiming on U.S. land-based missiles, missiles at Hussia if President submarines and bombers are Boris Yeltsin carries out his still aimed at military targets in promise to stop targeting Russia and other former Soviet Arneriean cities and military republics. sites, Seeretary of State James But in the latest exchange of Baker Ill said today. arms reduction proposals, 
"This issue will be discussed Yeltsin said he would stop tar­in some detail and depth," geting the United States with Baker said after a Kremlin Russian missiles. meeting with the Hussian "We no longer view the leader. United States as a foe," Foreign 
For decades, U.S. nuclear Minister Andrei Kozyrev said at strategy was based on a joint news conference with devastating the Soviet Union in Baker. the event of war. Yeltsin announced his plan to 
Many of the nearly 12,000 cut nuclear arms in a speech 
South African blacks killed in staged automobile crash 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -1\vo white insur­ance company employees staged an automobile crash that killed five blacks so the plotters could collect insurance premiums, one of the survivors said Wednesday. 
Lazarus Mmadi said at a news conference that a van carrying eight black people plunged down a ravine and burst into flames last Sunday in the town of llertzobgberg, east of Johannesburg. 
The insurance company Sanlam confirmed that two of its employees, lsak Kruger and Lucas Loubsher, were benefi­ciaries on policies for two of the survivors. It did not disclose the amounts involved. 

Mrnadi and two other sur­vivors said Kruger and Loubsher hired the victims as salesmen, and were purportedly driving them to their new jobs when the crash occurred. 
Mrnadi, 34, said the windows of the van had been painted black, the inside door-handles removed and Loubsher, who was at the wheel, gave the eight passengers "funny" drinks and food that made them appear intoxicated. 
At some point, Loubsher stopped the van, got out and rolled the vehicle into a ravine. "The next thing I heard was a big bump. I don't know what happened," said Mmadi, speak­ing in his native Pedi language through an interpreter. 
Hussia to focus more resources on urgent consumer needs and restructure its crippled econ­omy. 
As his taped speeeh was broadcast, Yeltsin told Secretary of State James Baker III Russia would no longer tar­get its long-range missiles on 
U.S. civilian or military sites. 
'.'We no longer view the United States as a foe," Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev told reporters after the meeting. 
Baker said the United States would consider reciprocating. 
Yeltsin did not speak for Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, the other former Soviet republics that have strategic nuclear weapons on their soil. All four agreed last month to put nuclear weapons under a joint command, but there have been tensions among them about dividing up the former Soviet military. 
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House press secretary, said Yeltsin's announcement "certainly sets the stage for very productive talks" at Saturday's meeting between Bush and Yeltsin at the presi­dential retreat at Camp David, 

Mmadi and another man, Koos Skhosana, 33, sustained minor injuries while the third survivor, Samuel Matsimela, 22, was seriously burned. Matsimela said the other five suffered a "horrible, screaming death." They were burned be­yond recognition. 
The insurance policies were part of documents signed by the victims when they were told they had been hired, Mmadi said. 
Police said an initial investi­gation, conducted before Wednesday's disclosures, failed to turn up sufficient evidence for any arrests. 
The African National Congress, the nation's leading black movement, called the in­cident "heinous and barbaric." It said the police investigation "confirms and emphasizes the contempt and disregard for black lives by those in author­ity." 
Also Wednesday, a 24-year­old white man went on a shoot­ing spree in Middelburg, east of Johannesburg, killing one black man and injuring six, police said. 
Police Major Ray Harrold told the South African Press Association that the gunman was wounded in a shootout with police. He said the attacks occurred after the gunman had a quarrel with his girlfriend and that he also fired shots at a white woman. 
Md. 
Bush, in his speeeh Tuesday, offered to eliminate 1,500 of the 2,000 warheads on U.S. land­based long-range missiles, cut the warheads on sea-based missiles by a third and convert some bombers to non-nuclear roles. 
He said Russia would have to eliminate the most potent land­based missiles in its arsenal ­154 SS-18s and 92 SS-24s that carry a total of 2,460 warheads. 
Yeltsin said Russia has de­cided to: 
-Take off alert about 600 land-and sea-based long-range missiles earrying 1,250 war­heads. Hussia is believed to have about 1,035 missiles with 17,000 warheads. 
-Cut the number of missile­launching submarines on patrol by half, and end all such patrols if the United States does the same. It also will dismantle the launchers aboard six missile submarines. 
-Stop production of TU-160 "Black Jack" and TU-95MS "Bear" bombers, the most powerful in the world, and of air-and sea-based cruise mis­siles. 
that was televised as he was out identifying them. diseussing it with Baker at the Some critics have questioned Kremlin. The Russian leader the need for the programs and will take up the details suggested they might undercut Saturday with President Bush the anti-ballistic missile treaty at Camp David, Md. signed in 1972 by the United 
Yeltsin's decision and Baker's States and the Soviet Union. It disclosure that the United limited anti-missile defenses on States might reciprocate the theory that such programs marked another big step away might encourage a nation's from Cold War tensions. leaders to think they could 
However, the two former foes launch nuclear weapons and intend to improve their de­survive a retaliatory strike. fenses against nuclear attack Supporters of the treaty con­with costly space-based pro­sider it a bedrock of arms con­grams. "There are risks of trol, and possibly the most im­missile attacks from a number portant in a series of agree­of countries," Baker said with-ments between the United 

r---------------------------------------------------------------. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects-

March of Dimes 
BIRTH-DEFECTS FOUNDATION 
THIS FRIDAY 




LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
FRIDAY 
OPEN SKATING 8:00pm-10:30pm 
SKATE RENTAL 50 CENTS 
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 

-Halt programs to modernize long-range offensive nuclear weapons. 
States and the former Soviet Union. 
Baker said that he had dis­cussed the treaty with Yeltsin and that the United States was not "walking away" from the accord. And yet, he said: "We should recognize there is a need for a defense system." 
Baker said "we've just heard" about Yeltsin's decision to stop aiming missiles at the United States. Kozyrev said Hussia's intention was "to establish a completely new relationship between the United States and Russia." 

Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer 


Black columnist calls for white execution 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) -is trying to boost minority en­the column and had no plans to 
A black columnist on the news­rollment at the predominantly apologize. paper serving Penn State Uni­white school. "It's his opinion, but it's not versity called for the mass exe­"The editors of the newspaper necessarily the opinion of the 
cution of white people, trigger­have a significant effect on the paper," managing editor Dana ing a wave of protests. climate for diversity on this DiFilippo said. 
Chino Wilson, in a column campus," said James Stewart, "He's known for this sort of published Tuesday in the Colle­the university's vice provost. thing. It's his own, warped gian, called for black people to They "can make a significant voice," said Kevin Naff, an "unite, organize and execute" contribution toward multicul­opinion page editor at the pa­white people who pose a threat tural understanding by exercis­per. to them. ing their right to keep such Penn State's main campus has 
"White people are irre­hate-writing out of (their) 38,911 students; 1,204, or 3.1 
deemable racists, who have columns." percent, are black. never loved or cared about Almost immediately after the "It surprised us ... to see a black people," Wilson wrote. paper hit the streets, telephone staff-written column ... that 
"To protect ourselves we should calls and letters began arriving advocates large-scale interra­bear arms immediately and at newspaper offices. cial violence," Stewart wrote in form a militia to defend our Two sign-carrying protesters a letter to the paper. property, our beautiful black demonstrated Wednesday, one But that wasn't the official women, men and children." carrying a placard reading school position. 
He also said white people "White Person, Shoot Me," and "Just as any other hate created the AIDS virus "as part offered a three-ring target. magazine or hate periodical has of a diabolical plot to extermi­The weekday paper, with a a right to publish in this 
nate black people." circulation of 19,000, is pro­country, the Collegian has the 
Among those who objected duced off campus and is not right to publish anything they were black members of the uni­operated by the university. Its want to," university spokesman versity's administration, which student management approved Bill Mahon said. 
Take a First Aid class with the American Red Cross. We'll teach you what you need to know to save someone you love . ..from 
American
choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergencies. Red Cross Call your chapter of the American Red Cross today. And know it all. 



"DAZZLING! "STUNNING! 
An extravaganza!"
John Giel&ud is 

astounding." -Caryn James, ·Peter Travers, THE NEW YORK TI~IES ROLLINGSTONE 

"VISUALLY
"MAGNIFICENT! 


llcautiful...leaves 


BEAUTIFUL! 
you goggling in 1ohn ( ,ielgu d amazement!" gives a m <tgisterial -Graham Fuller, INTERVIEW pcrfortnance." -John .\ndcrson, NEW YORK NEWSDAY

"SEXY! 
1ohn Gielgud has a commanding presence." 

-Jack Carner,-Rob Buchanan, ELLE GANNETT 1\EWS SERVICE 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
ClllEffiR RT THE SDITE 
FRI & SAT 7:15, 9:45 
page 5 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Making a difference 
During halftime of last night's home basketball game, Dr. T. Michael Harrington presented Dr. Dennis Nigro with this year's Thomas A. Dooley Award. 


Malathion spraying linked to skin rashes in California 

"cjoit!a Petartfo" :Happy 21st r.B--'L>ay Paufita .L. Pik$ tie atforamos­Mamay9vfom (from TiSaivatlor witFiCove) 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Low doses of malathion cause aller­gic reactions in mice, boosting claims that some Californians got skin rashes when heli­copters sprayed the pesticide to fight a fruit fly infestation, a scientist said Wednesday. 
The University of Southern California study, published in a scientific journal this month, found that mouse immune sys­tem cells react to malathion by releasing chemicals, probably including histamine. 
Histamine also is released in allergic reactions, but in a dif­ferent manner. Histamine causes the inflammation and fluid production that can irri­tate the nose, sinuses, eyes and skin in allergic people. 
"The alterations in immune­cell function that we observed lend credence to reports of rashes" after aerial malathion spraying, said Kathleen Rodgers, an immunotoxicologist at USC's School of Medicine. 
The spraying of malathion in the Los Angeles Basin during 1989-1990 was intended to halt an infestation of Mediterranean fruit flies. 
Formations of helicopters spraying pesticide over urban areas sparked widespread protests. Officials have since stopped malathion spraying. 
Rodgers force-fed various doses of malathion to about 200 mice, while an equal number received none of the pesticide. 
She found that doses as low as one milligram of malathion per kilogram of body weight caused an allergy like immune system reaction in the mice. That's 700 times lower than the toxic dose of malathion. 
But another expert disagreed with Rodgers' conclusions. 
"The doses at which she finds an effect (in mice) are still above what the public gets from malathion spraying," said Dr. Paul J. Papanek Jr., toxics epidemiology chief at the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services. 
@
Need A Spring Break?~ Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 
The Ultimate Sailing Experience ' 
ICall 1-800-359-9808 Today I .,.., 

The Observer 
has positions available for 


DAY EDITOR 
Contact Dannika at 239-7471 or 283-4233 Must be available 
Monday or Wednesday Mternoons 

-~~~--------~~-------~~------------~-. -----­
page 6 The Observer 


Hard at work 

J~ssica St_evens, a Saint Mary's junior, studies in the student lounge in Madeleva Hall. The lounge pro­VIdes a quite place for off-campus students to study while at Saint Mary's for classes. 
Thursday, January 30, 1992 



Kansas attorney general indicted on perjury counts 
KANSAS CITY, Kan. (AP) ­Kansas Attorney General Bob Stephan was indicted by a fed­eral grand jury Wednesday on two counts of perjury involving lawsuits filed by a former clerk in his offiee. 
In Topeka, Stephan released a statement saying he is inno­cent. 
The grand jury charged him with two counts of perjury and one count of conspiracy to commit perjury. Robert Storey, a former Kansas state legisla­tor, was indieted on one count of perjury and one count of conspiracy. 
Stephan and Storey are charged with conspiring to lie while under oath during depositions in 1986 and 1987, and in court testimony in 1988. 
Terms of a settlement in a sex harassment case with Marcia Tomson Stingley were supposed to be confidential, but they were revealed at a Stephan news conference in 1985. 
Stephan, 59, is charged with falsely testifying that he didn't know the settlement required him to keep details confidential or that terms included the payment of $24,000 to Stingley. 
The perjury count against Storey, 57, accuses him of lying under oath in federal court on Nov. 4, 1988. 
The charge alleges that he falsely testified that he wasn't aware of the confidentiality elause. 
Stingley, a former elerk in Stephan's office, filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against Stephan in December 1982 after she was fired. She alleged that Stephan made advances on numerous occasions. 
The lawsuit was settled out of court in March 1985. Terms were kept secret by agreement of both parties. 

Mideast talks draw to close 
MOSCOW (AP) -Palestinians 
stayed away from Arab-Israeli 
peace talks again today, but 
other parties agreed to hold a 
series of meetings this spring in 
cities around the world on is­
sues ranging from refugees to 
arms control. 

Despite the Palestinian boy­
cott, the two-day Moseow con­
ference represents a symbolic 
leap forward for the U.S.-bro­
kered peace process that began 
with a ceremonial Madrid con­
ference in Oetober. 

Negotiators described today's 
working group meetings on re­
gional issues as businesslike 
and rhetoric-free, and said they 
would tackle the same subjects 
again at the end of April or be­
ginning of May after the Jewish 
Passover and Muslim Ramadan 
holidays. 

The negotiators said they 
would likely discuss the issue of 
refugees at a meeting in 
Canada, eeonomic cooperation 
at a meeting in Belgium, arms 
control in the United States, the 
environment in Japan, and wa­
ter in Turkey or Austria. Dates 
for future talks will be decided 
then. 

The conference also decided that Japan will send a fact­finding mission to the Middle East to explore environmental problems. 
A steering committee ap­proved the negotiators' progress, and was expected to report later to a final session of lower-level ministers. The talks formally ended late in the afternoon, a member of the Egyptian delegation said. 
Following the talks, Secretary of State James Baker lll held an unscheduled meeting with the Palestinian's spokeswoman, Hanan Ashrawi, the U.S. Em­bassy said, without giving any details. 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa also met sepa­rately with Palestinians and then told reporters that the Egyptians "have reason to be­lieve the Palestinians will at­tend future meetings of the multilateral talks, since the co­sponsors have announced this problem has been resolved." 
The Palestinians stayed away from the day's talks and Tues­day's opening session after seeking to broaden their repre­rael's insistence that only dele­
gates from the occupied West 
Bank and Gaza Strip may take 
part. 
But the Arab delegates on all 
the committees discussing re­
gional issues insisted the Pales­
tinians be brought in at future 
meetings. 
"There were lots of contacts 
yesterday, but the situation has 
not changed," said Palestinian 
delegate Saeb Erakat. "They 
have not accepted our delega­
tion, and we are not going to 
the talks." 
The talks have brought Is­
raelis together with a broad 
cross-section of the Arab world, 
as well as Japan, the European 
Community and other countries 
that can contribute to re­
building the war-torn Middle 
East. Nearly 20 nations were 
attending, although Lebanon 
and Syria chose not to. 
Baker on Tuesday stressed in 
his opening speech that one 
way of ending decades of 
mistrust is to address sueh re­
gional problems as water short­
ages, pollution and refugees. 
The five working groups that met today each was led by a Western nation. 
Japan heads the environment group, Canada the refugee committee, the EC the economic cooperation group, and the United States the water resources group and the committee on disarmament and regional security. 
Yehoyada Haim, Israel's chief delegate to the refugees com­mittee, said he was so pleased with the atmosphere at his ses­sion that he put aside his pre­pared remarks. 
"After everyone else had spo­ken I told them I was scrapping my speech because the atmo­sphere is excellent, so informal, so businesslike," he said. 
He added that at the meeting the European Community rep­resentative called for the inclu­sion of the United Nations as well as Palestinians who do not live under Israeli occupation on the refugees committee. 
Baker has acknowledged there is merit in including such Palestinians, since the commit­tee concerns those who lost their homes when Israel be­came a state. 

YOU'VE KNOWN YOUR WHOLE LIFE YOU WERE GOING TO BE A DOCTOR. 
DON'T RISK IT NOW. 
YOU'RE ALMOST THERE. YOU'VE WORKED HARD ALL THESE YEARS AND NOW IT'S TIME TO TAKE THE MCAT. DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD PREPARE ? 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 
100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.s & M.D.S 

SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE CLASSES STARTING NOW! YOU MAKE IT. 

~ THIS FRIDAY ~ 





LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
~ ~ 

SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS SUPPORT YOUR HALL'S TEAMS 

FRIDAY,JANUARY31 8:OOPM -4:OOAM 


PORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSS OODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOO iFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUN 
' 

sentation by bringing in dele­On Tuesday, Israeli Foreign 
$1.00 DONATION AT THE DOOR
gates from Jerusalem and Minister David Levy called the countries beyond Israeli rule. negotiation process "irreversible." Yet Tuesday's ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS The American and Russian speeches rarely touched on eo-sponsors have backed up Is-substance. 
I 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-------~--~----------._-.--------------------------­
The Observer 
Thursday, January 30, 1992 
Londonderry residents remember 20th 'Bloody Sunday' anniversary 
LONDONDERRY, Northern Ireland (AP) -Twenty years after British soldiers killed 14 Catholic civil rights demonstra­tors on "Bloody Sunday," a wave of introspection has over­taken this city divided by reli­gion and the River Foyle. 
While books and documen­taries dig for the truth of the events of Jan. 30, 1972, sur­vivors of the march are deeply divided -and the commander of the British troops that day says it's time for the army to go home. 
"Bloody Sunday showed us that British justice protects the state's terrorists. That's what the soldiers were that day," said Michael English, a barkeeper at the Bogside Inn who took his two eldest sons to the march. 
His first son was killed in a riot in 1981 when an army ve­hicle ran over him. His second son was killed in 1985, he said, while "doing his duty as a vol­unteer in the Provisional army" -the IRA. 
Bloody Sunday is now seen as the death of the non-violent movement, born in Londonderry, which sought equal housing, voting rights and employment opportunity for Catholics in the Protestant­ruled province. 
That Sunday, 5,000 people from the Catholic estates of the Creggan and the Bogside were trying to march to the walled city center to protest the im­prisonment without trial of hundreds of Irish nationalists. 
The army's elite parachute regiment barred their way. The soldiers had orders that, if riot­ing broke out, they would charge into the Bogside's "no­go" area, then controlled by IRA gunmen, to arrest suspected leaders. 
A new book by journalist Eamonn McCann contends the soldiers "encountered only un­armed civilians and forthwith set about killing them." 
The government's official re­port at the time concluded that none of the victims was armed when shot, but that some might have been earlier. Thirteen people died that day, and an­other man who was wounded died five months later. 
McCann's book details the suffering of each family. 
Particularly haunted is Kathleen Kelly, whose 17 -year­old son Michael was killed. 
"I will take my hatred to six foot under," Kelly said. If she could find the soldier who shot her son, "I would blow the brains out of him, I would put 13 bullets in him." 
On a BBC television documen­tary broadcast Tuesday, one still-active army officer admit­ted he saw no gunmen among the crowd: "In my own heart ... they were all innocent." 
The regiment's commander, Col. Derek Wilford, said his men's action "achieved nothing at all except tragedy." He sug­gested the British government would be wise to withdraw its troops. 
Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the pro-British Democratic Unionist Party, called Wilford "an idiot who has swallowed IRA propaganda." 
In Catholic working-class Derry -a community so close­knit it's said you can't throw a stone without hitting a cousin -the killings touched nearly everyone. 

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
& 


JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
SOPHOMORE SffiLING WEEKEND SIGN-UP 
WEDNESDAY AND TIR.JRSDAY 
IN NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS DURING LUNCH AND DINNER 

SECURE A PLACE FOR YOUR 12-15 YEAR OLD BROTHER OR SISTER FOR A MERE $20 DEPOSIT 


SOPHOMORE SffiS IS APRIL 3-5 
QUESTIONS?? CALL THE SOPHOMORE ClASS OFFICE AT 239-5225 
page 7 


Freshman Matt Healy, carrying his gym shoes, heads toward the JACC for P.E. The required P.E. course offers a myriad of athletic opportunities to the participating freshmen class. 
Discovery astronauts get ready for landing 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Discovery's astronauts, weary and a little testy after a week of round-the-clock orbital research, squeezed in more ex­periments Wednesday and pre­pared for the trip home. 
"We're still looking at each other and saying, 'I just can't believe it.' Everything just went so great," said Mary McCay, a researcher at the University of Tennessee Space Institute. 
McCay said the astronauts took 296 holograms of her metal casting and solidification experiment during the eight­day flight. The findings will be used to improve the casting of alloys on Earth, she said. 
Mission manager Robert McBrayer also was elated. 
"It's just great to see a good plan come together, and that's exactly what has happened with this mission," McBrayer said. 
Discovery was scheduled to land at 11:07 a.m. EST Thursday at Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
The seven astronauts had been scheduled to return Wednesday, but NASA extended the flight for more experiments. The astronauts spent their last full day in orbit performing medical tests and monitoring crystal growth and the creeping of slime mold. 
The yellow, pulsating mold is among millions of organisms studied inside Spacelab, a 23­foot-long laboratory module in the cargo bay. 
More than 225 scientists from 14 countries participated in the experiments, designed to study the effects of weightlessness on people, plants and bugs. Only one experiment failed -480 fruit flies died after being exposed to sterilizing solution left on their containers before launch. 
Operations inside Spacelab began shortly after Discovery reached orbit on Jan. 22. The six men and one woman aboard were divided into two teams and split 12-hour shifts. 
Members of one team griped when they saw Wednesday's work schedule. Astronaut Ulf Merbold, a German physicist, was especially vocal. "We're not machines," he complained. 
NASA rearranged the astro­nauts' schedule and gave them an hour off during the morning to enjoy the view of Earth 187 miles below. 
"I want you to know that you guys made Ulf's whole flight here in the last few minutes by giving him that time off," as­tronaut David Hilmers told ground controllers. "He had a clear view of downtown Munich, and Germany and the Alps were clear, and his spirits are a lot higher right now. We all thank you." 
Flight director Wayne Hale was sympathetic. 
"It's a very delicate balance," Hale said. "We're trying to get the maximum amount of in­formation or the maximum amount of work that we can do on any given space flight. At the same time, you don't want to overwork the crew." 



~--------~------~-.--~~-----.--------------..~----~------------------~-------~------------·------------~------------­
The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1992
page 8 

Family seeks answers about son's 'friendly fire' death 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Nearly a year after Army Cpl. Douglas Lance Fielder's death from "friendly fire" during the Persian Gulf War, his father has lost faith. 
Ron Fielder doesn't know if the Army will answer the ques­tions that haunt him about why his 22-year-old son died Feb. 27,1991. 
I lis son was killed when hit by machine-gun fire from a cav­alry squadron, even though another cavalry unit had ordered firing stopped. 
He wants to know who is re­sponsible, and whether the Army conspired to cover up the circumstances of his son's death at an Iraqi desert airfield. 
Fielder is convinced the only way to get all the facts is a court-martial of Lt. Col. John Daly, commander of the squadron that fired on Lance Fielder's small group of combat engineers. 
Daly has been told by Army investigators not to discuss the case until an investigation is complete, said an Army spokesman at Fort Bliss, Texas, where Daly commands the troop of the 3rd Regiment of the 3rd Armored Cavalry. Daly has declined all interview requests. 
Fielder also wants to know why the commander of his son's unit, a troop of the 7th Engineering Brigade of the 1st Armored Division, left his son and two other soldiers in the desert with a broken-down ve­hicle and no radio. 
Fielder and his former wife, Debbie Shelton, pinned hopes on House Armed Services Investigative Subcommittee hearings Thursday into the 35 "friendly fire" deaths in the Gulf War. 
The panel originally was to have begun work on the subject Wednesday. 
"I feel violated and aban­doned by a government that I trusted," said Fielder, a 21-year veteran of the Nashville police force. 

His 6-foot-5 son was awarded a Bronze star for valor for or­ganizing his unit's defenses after his superior, Sgt. James Napier, was wounded. 
Mrs. Shelton says she contin­ues a barrage of letters to the Army and elected officials be­cause her son "hated a lie and he loved the Army. If this had happened to one of his friends he would have spent the rest of his life seeking justice." 
The Army first said Fielder ­who was promoted to sergeant about 30 hours after his death -was killed in battle with Iraq's Republican Guard. 
Two months later, a fellow soldier called the parents and told them Daly's squadron at­tacked Fielder's unit, killing Fielder and wounding Napier. Official Army notification came Aug. 12. 
In October, The Washington Post published letters by Capt. 
B.H. Friesen charging that Daly and Col. Douglas Starr, then commander of the 3rd Regiment, were responsible for Fielder's death. 
Friesen, a troop commander under Daly, said he fired warn­ing shots and led his unit against Fielder's group, think­ing they were Iraqi. 
Friesen said he was puzzled by a lack of return fire from Fielder's unit and ordered a cease fire. 
"A cease fire was already in effect when LTC Daly arrived at the airfield. I had given the command several times and my second-in-command had re­layed the order to the squadron command post on the radio frequency monitored by LTC Daly," Friesen wrote. 
However, he said, Daly's unit opened fire. 
The Washington Post reported on Oct. 20 that Daly told investigators in a sworn state­ment: "They started to flee south. My gunner asked per­mission to fire to cut them off. I granted permission." 
The elder Fielder said that in documents he obtained, Daly contended he wasn't informed the airport was clear and that friendly forces were in the area. 
But the Post reported that Starr told investigators he had informed Daly before the as­sault that friendly forces were in the area. 
Starr retired on Dec. 31, said Army spokeswoman Maj. Barbara Goodno. She said Tuesday she did not know where he was living. 
Goodno said two investiga­tions are being conducted. One focuses on the circumstances under which Fielder died, in­cluding the role of his com­mander and that of the attack­ing unit. 
The Army inspector general is conducting another investiga­tion into why Fielder's parents were told he was killed by en­emy forces and whether there was intent to mislead them, she said. 
Jury picked for Dahmer sanity trial 
MILWAUKEE (AP) Fourteen jurors were chosen Wednesday, and immediately sequestered, to hear grisly tes­timony about dismemberment, cannibalism and sex with corpses in the sanity trial of se­rial killer Jeffrey Dahmer. 
The jury, which will be trimmed to 12 at the conclusion of testimony, must decide whether Dahmer was sane when he strangled and dis­membered 15 men and boys in the Milwaukee area. 
Most of Dahmer's victims were black homosexuals. The jurors are seven men and seven women, 13 whites and one black. They were isolated im­mediately after being seated on the third day of jury selection. 
District Attorney Michael McCann and defense attorney Gerald Boyle were slated to give opening statements Thursday before Circuit Judge Laurence Gram Jr. 
Dahmer has pleaded guilty but insane to 15 Milwaukee County mutilation slayings. If a jury accepts his plea, Dahmer would be sent to a mental insti­tution, where he could petition for release every six months. If deemed sane, he would be sen­tenced to life in prison for each slaying. 
"Right now in this court, he is a sane man," McCann told one woman as he pointed to Dahmer, who sat quietly across a round table from each juror being questioned in the judge's chambers. 

HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 YEAR Security Systems 4-8 Bedrooms Fully furnished KEGERATORS Security Systems 287-4989 
Accounting Majors 

We are looking for outstanding junior accounting majors to participate in 
our Internal Audit Department's summer internship program. 
A summer internship with us is an excellent first step toward Aetna's 
impressive career opportunities, an exceptional professional development 
program, direct involvement with top management, special consulting, fraud 
investigation assignments, and some travel. As a full time member of our 
staff after graduation, you can qualify for CPA licensing in Connecticut. 
Aetna was recently named by Fortune magazine and The Wall Street Journal as one of America's most admired companies. Our outstanding compensation, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. 
We are looking for individuals with proven analytical ability, effective communication skills, initiative, flexibility and creativity to join our large staff of audit professionals at our corporate headquarters in Hartford, Connecticut. We'd like to meet you and learn more about your expectations. Bring your resmne and transcript to our information session on the following date: 
~ Information Session 
Wednesday, February 5 
4:00p.m. 
LaFortune Student Center 
Sarin Room 
Refreshments will be served 
Check with your Internship Office for further details. 

Aetna is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer. 


----------.----------~----------~-------~-~-----------'""-'"'--..., 
Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer 

Be mine 
Lisa Scott (front) and Molly Schwartz (back), two Saint Mary's seniors, beat the Valentine's Day rush by buying cards for friends in January. 

TONIGHT! 
featuring the music of Cliff Erickson as well as several ND student groups 
9:00 p.m. -midnight basement lounge of LaFortune 
OPEN MICROPHONE-ALL 
ARE INVITED TO PERFORM 
page 9 

Saddam forms special force as protection from opposition 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­Saddam Hussein has formed a special military force to protect him, his palaces and key gov­ernment centers against inter­nal opposition, diplomats said Wednesday. 
The troops reportedly were taken from the Republican Guard, which itself was formed originally to protect Saddam from unrest in the regular army. 
The two Baghdad-based diplomats said Saddam also has sent several more army di­visions to southern Iraq, where fighting between the army and Shiite Muslim rebels reportedly has intensified in recent weeks. 
There was no independent confirmation of either the re­port of the new military force or the renewed fighting. 
A U.N. official in Geneva, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there had been a number of reports from Syria and Iran over the past two weeks about new fighting in southern Iraq. But he could not confirm them. 
The Iraqi regime has become increasingly hostile to foreign news organizations, including The Associated Press. It has re­
fused to allow AP reporters and 
many others to visit. 
The United States and other 
nations hope the hardships 
caused by a U.N. trade embargo 
will intensify discontent against 
Saddam. On the anniversary of 
the Gulf War, President Bush 
again called for Saddam's 
overthrow and praised the 
"thousands of brave Iraqis who 
are resisting Saddam's rule." 
Various Iraqi opposition 
groups have been trying to 
unite and develop a strategy for 
toppling Saddam, who has ruled 
for nearly two decades. A large 
gathering of Saddam's foes is 
planned next month in 
Damascus, the Syrian capital. 
The two diplomats, speaking 
on condition of anonymity dur­
ing visits to Nicosia and 
Amman, Jordan, said Saddam's 
new presidential guard consists 
of 13 battalions drawn from the 
five or six Republican Guard 
divisions that survived the Gulf 
War. 
The diplomats said they saw 
some units of the new force 
when the troops deployed for 
the first time outside govern­
ment buildings in Baghdad last 
month after a series of hand 
grenade attacks in the city. 
They said reliable sources in 
Baghdad had provided infor­
mation on the new force. 
The force's estimated 10,000 
soldiers are staunch Saddam 
loyalists, the diplomats said, 
most from Saddam's hometown 
of Tikrit, on the Tigris River 
north of Baghdad, and the 
nearby town of al-Door. 
All are veterans of the 1980­
88 war with Iran, the Gulf War 
and the anti-Saddam rebellions 
that followed and are com­
manded by Saddam's second 
son, Qusai, 26, they said. 
The soldiers undergo special 
training at military bases in 
Baghdad and Tikrit, with the 
emphasis on urban combat and 
house-to-house fighting, the 
diplomats said. 
The diplomats and travelers 
from Iraq said Saddam rein­
forced his garrison in southern 
Iraq with several divisions this 
month for what appeared to be 
a major push against Shiite 
rebels. 
rwelcom~ 
Back! NowG.o J 
Away~ 

London $199• 
Munich $t69• 
Tel Aviv $319• Sydney $677• Bangkok $579• 
•Fares are ead1 w~ from Chicago based on a roundtrip purchase. Ta><es not induded ar~d restrictions apply. Call for other WJTidwide destinations both one w~ arid rOU1dtnp.
CoUncil Travel 
1153 N. Deaban St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 

Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel Catalog! 



--~-~---~--­
.---------~-----~ -~~ -~---~----~-------...-­
up supplies at $3 each. liveliest spot in town, the cav­
As the economy rockets ernous bar fills early. Waiters downward and even those with deadpan faces and black D A y 0 F lucky enough to have jobs lose bow ties sling tiny Turkish cof­their buying power, people are fee cups, heaping glasses of beginning to wonder how all of syrup-topped ice cream and those weapons and explosives shot glasses of liquid potent 
WOMEN 
will be used. enough to launch a rocket. "Empty stores, looting, star­The orchestra, a geriatric 
AT THE SNITE MUSEUM: 
vation, violence ... " snorted combo out of a time warp, Mihajlo Dejanovic, a Russian wafts the sounds of strings and AN INTERNATIONAL CELEBRATION literature specialist. "That is woodwinds over the diverse how I see Belgrade in the near clientele. Saturday, February 1, 1992 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
Due to the success of the first Day of Women at 1be Snite Museum, held on January 26, 1991, a sec­ond Day ofWomen has been scheduled for Saturday, February I, 1992. This event will be a celebra­tion ofinternational women at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, and in the South Bend community. 
f'@'S~ -t~ f:pttA 
Panel discussions, a slide lecture, Japanese koto music, poetry and fiction readings, and storytelling will take place in the Snite Museum from 9:00a.m. to 5:30p.m. Everyone is welcome; there is no
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
charge. All events will take place in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers. Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
~~;~~~]f'~o~~hre (219) 277·1291 
panelists:

SCHEDULE
South Ben IN 46637 Pb•e Alaw•ed Z4bra. 
Frances Pires (Kenya) Aixa Quiros (Panama) 
What: College Mens Indoor Soccer 
9:00-10:15 panel: Women and 
Zhuoyun Yan (China)
Education
Where: South Bend Turners Indoor 
2:45-4:15 poetry and fiction reading Moderator: Sharon Williams, senior, 
53666 IRONWOOD ROAD (NORTH OF DOUGLAS) 
Tina Buchanan, Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame 

When: Mondays and Wednesdays Late Night 
(U.S.A.)
Panelists:Sigrid Arzt (Mexico) 
Maria Luiza Carrano (Brazil) Jasmin Nario (Philippines) Shabnam Shalwani (Pakistan) 
(1Dam • 1:3Dam) 
Hong Liu (China) 
Signup January 25th through February 1st 
Beatrice Castillo, Saint Mary's 
10:30-11:15 slide lecture: 
Season Starts Monday February 3rd 
(Mexico)Women in Islamic Art
COST IS $350.00/ TEAM FOR 7 GAMES AND TOURNAMENT! 
Huma Ehtisham (United Arab Emirates) 
Professor Elizabeth Pastan, 
Roxana Barrantes (Peru) 
FOR MORE INFO, CALL 272·5061 AFTER 6:00PM 
Department of Fine Art Indiana University, Bloomington 

4:30-5:30 storyteUing in the Museum GaUeries 
11:30-12:15 concert or Japanese 
Staff Assistants ofThe Snite koto music 
LIKE CHllDREN? 
Museum of ArtReiko Ono (Japan) Yumiko Maekawa (Japan) 5:30-6:30 reception at Greenfields
~..UL-.1 THE OUTDOORS? 
Cafe in Hesburgh Center for 
Akie Maekawa (Japan) 
International Studies 
Miyuki Hughes (Japan) 
Be a counselor this summer at 
Camp Foley in Pine River MN 
Joind:y sponsored b:Y The Snite Museum ofArt,
12:15 -1:15 LUNCH BREAK 
Come see us: Mon Feb.3 at LaFortune 
The Friends of The Snite Museum ofArt, the 
Kellogg Institute for lnw-nationa! Studies, the
Tues Feb. 4 at LeMans 
1:15-2:30 panel: Women and 
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace
Looking for staff in sailing, swimming, 
Social Change 
Studies, the Gender Studies Program, and the
Moderator: Angelique Dioguardi, 
biking, windsurf"tng, tennis, waterskiing, 
Office of International Student Affairs.
senior, Saint Mary's 
fencing, lancing, archery, riflery, crafts, & 
~-----------------more=··~·----------------~~------------------------------~---------------------------­
page 10 

Belgrade feels war's effects 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -On a big night in Belgrade, the Hotel Moskva bar swings to the sounds of white-haired codgers in frayed tuxedos, an Old World scene lacking only Peter Lorre smoking a Balkan Sobranie. 
Among the grizzled workers in cloth caps and natty men with painted women in fake fur, however, a few young men in camouflage offer a grim reality check. 
At a back table, a trio of teen­agers talk nervously among themselves when a foreign stranger asks them about the war between Serbs and Croats. Finally, one girl offers a one­word, unprintable opinion. 
Belgrade feels the war in gas lines, short supplies and shorter cash. snarled commu­nications and a sense of dread. Not many people have much good to say about it. 
"This stupid war has pushed us a hundred years backward," says Danica Aleksic, a profes­sional translator. "Belgrade should be a European capital, but it looks like a military camp." 
Like a lot of others, Aleksic is concerned about the ragtag mix of people in different uniforms walking around with automatic weapons. 
When war broke out over Croatia's independence declaration last July, hand grenades began appearing on the black market for $120 apiece. 
Now, 15-year-olds are buying future." 
In the best of times, Belgrade is not one of Europe's flashier capitals. The name means "white city," but whoever thought that up has not seen Belgrade for some time. 
When the icy cold settles in, the city's gray tones are tinged with a brown pungent haze from soft coal used for heating. Like every other commodity, even coal is getting too costly for the jobless. 
The fighting in Croatia has uprooted at least 600,000 peo­ple from what had been Yugoslavia, and many of them have drifted to Belgrade. Refugees who can't find room with friends or relatives must rely on public largesse. 
Military recruits and mobi­lized reservists have appeared on the streets of the Serbian and federal capital, either looking for a last fling before heading north or swaggering after a successful return. 
At a JAT Yugoslav Airlines office, an agent handed over a ticket and shook her head. "Don't expect much service, sir," she said. But she added that flights were on time. Closed air routes meant a lot of back-up aircraft. 
Up to now, Belgrade is not yet a stereotypical wartime capital. 
The downtown McDonald's is a picture of bourgeois burgery, patronized by mothers with prams and courting couples. At night, the lights blaze, and cafes throb with life until late. 
At the Moskva, perhaps the 

The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1992 

Giving the gift of love 
~aggie Mc<?all, a sophomore at Saint Mary's, browses through the Shaheen Bookstore looking for pos­Sible Valentme's Day gifts. 
Gunman surrenders after hostage standoff 
TUCSON, Ariz. (AP)-A man The woman, Renee Belcher, slashed a woman's throat and 42, was hospitalized in serious led police on a chase during condition, a University Medical which a homeowner mistakenly Center spokeswoman said. shot a police officer. The man Police Officer Phil Wright, 36, later gave up after holding a was in fair condition at the person hostage for 10 hours, hospital after being shot in the police said. abdomen by a homeowner who 
Albert Ramirez, 25, gave up mistook him for an intruder, early Wednesday afternoon. He Villasenor said. was charged with attempted murder, kidnapping, aggra­Police believe Ramirez knew vated assault and burglary, Sgt. Belcher and possibly the Roberto VIllasenor said. hostage, but no other informa­tion on their relationships was immediately released. 
The chain of events began late Tuesday when Belcher was attacked in a church courtyard. She made it to a nearby resi­dence, Villasenor said. 
Officers went to the woman's apartment complex to check on her children. There, they saw a man jump from a balcony and flee, VIllasenor said. 

Business 
Thursday, January 30, 1992 page 11 
Current Economic Issues 
Prof. Charles Wilber 
NO Economics Dept. 

Workplace distrust causes inefficiency 
Scholarly work in economics over the past 15 years demonstrates that the efficient operation of markets requires something beyond calculated self­interest. Economic actors must internalize rules of conduct and self-supervise their behavior. 
A lack of trust in the honesty and truthfulness of others increases transaction costs, reducing efficiency. 
In a world of interdependence and imperfect information, rational self-interest leads to socially irrational results. The fact that each economic actor has less than perfect knowledge of the other's likely behavior, gives rise to strategic behavior, or what game theorists call "moral hazards". 
A classic example of moral hazard, known as "The Parable of Distrust" is the following situation. Both the employer and the worker suspect that the other one cannot be trusted to honor his or her explicit or implicit contract. 
For example, the employer thinks the worker will take too many coffee breaks, spend too much time talking with other workers, and generally work less than the employer thinks is owed. 
The worker, on the other hand, thinks the employer will try to speed up the pace of work, fire him/her unjustly if given the chance, and generally behave arbitrarily. 
When this is the case, the worker will tend to shirk and the employer will increase supervision to stop the expected shirking. If the worker would self-supervise, production costs would be lower. The distrust between employer and worker reduces efficiency. 
The pursuit of individual self-interest results in the worker and the employer as individuals and as a group becoming worse off than if they had been able to cooperate. 
The problem is simple and common. 
The employer and worker do not have perfect knowledge of what the other will do, and the resulting lack of trust leads to behavior that is self­defeating. Acting the way the other suspects reinforces the distrust. 
Morally constrained behavior to not shirk or not act arbitrarily could, given time, overcome the distrust. 
The problem is made worse if distrust is accompanied with feelings of injustice. For example, if the worker feels that the contract is unfair (low wages, poor grievance machinery, etc.), the tendency to shirk will be increased. 
The belief that self-interest in a competitive environment is sufficient to yield the common good is an illusion. An economy, capitalist or socialist, where everyone constantly lied, stole, committed fraud, failed to honor contracts, or shirked on the job would neither yield the common good nor be efficient. 
Yet pushed to its logical extreme, individual self­interest would have this result. When faced with interdependence and imperfect information it usually would be in the interest of an individual to evade the rules by which other players are guided. 
Therefore, why do people ever cooperate and follow the rules? 
The answer is not only fear of the police power of the state. Rather, our selfish tendency to maximize our material welfare at the expense of others is inhibited by a deeply ingrained moral sense, most often based on religious convictions. 
Attempts to rely solely on material incentives in the private sector, and more particularly in the public sector, suffer from two defects. 
In the first place, stationing a police officer on every corner to prevent cheating simply does not work. Regulators have a disadvantage in relevant information compared to those whose behavior they are trying to regulate. 
Also, who regulates the regulators? There is no substitute for an internalized moral law that directs persons to seek their self-interest only in fair ways. In addition, reliance on external sanctions further weakens an internalized moral law. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Professors discuss Bush's address 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 

Professors on the Notre Dame campus had differing opinions on President Bush's State of the Union address Tuesday. 
Martin Wolfson, assistant professor of economics, believes that Bush's proposals were "too weak" to sufficiently deal with the country's problems. 
The tax cuts Bush proposed will only "provide limited benefits," such as the cut in the capital gains tax and the elimination of the 10 percent luxury tax on yachts, which will benefit only the wealthy, Wolfson said. 
Wolfson was disappointed that Bush did not deal with such problems as health care, education, and unemployment properly. "We need a strong commitment from the federal government for a policy of full employment," he said. 
Given the proposals Bush made in his address, Wolfson believes that the recession will continue for some time. "I'm not optimistic," he said. 

On the other hand, Barry Keating, professor of finance, believes that the country will "slowly move out of' the recession before the tax cuts Bush proposed will take effect. "The timing (of the tax cuts) may be poor." 
Keating believes that the national economy is not as poor as people think. "The media may have overplayed it." 
According to Keating, other nations see the U.S. economy far differently than the United States does. "The rest of the world," he said, "sees us as quite powerful." 
Keating cited such industries as pharmaceuticals, aircraft and textiles in which "the U.S. is clearly the leader." 
Peri Arnold, chairman of the department of government, thinks that Bush's speech provided a set of piecemeal programs "which at best will have a marginal effect on the economy." 
Bush's recommendations for tax cuts will "put a few hundred dollars in most people's pockets," but will not fix the major problems with the economy, Arnold said. 
The speech, according to Arnold, touched on some good programs ("Thank God he wants to put some more money into Head Start."), but mostly dealt with short-term "minor problems." 
Because of this, Arnold is pessimistic about the recession, saying that the economy will experience only "very sluggish growth" in the near future. 
Arnold believes that Bush's political future is also in jeopardy because of the economy. The address "is not going to give him the boost (in national polls) that he needed," Arnold said. 
Bush's main mistake, according to Arnold, was building up expectations about the address, which did not live up to those expectations. 
"This is a guy who has basically shot himself in the foot," Arnold said. 
President unveils 1993 budget plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Bush unveiled a $1.52 trillion budget on Wednesday that would lighten tax loads for families and businesses in hopes of easing the recession's "winter's gloom." He would boost spending on children, but limit other programs including Medicare help for the aged. 
Military spending also would be trimmed, but the federal deficit would still rise to a record level of about $400 billion. 
Bush urged Congress to "lay aside partisanship" and speedily enact his election­year spending plan in order to "get the economy moving again." 
After setting a March 20 target for action in his State of the Union address Tuesday night, he visited GOP legislators Wednesday and asked them to "help communicate with the American people" to win support for his program, according to lawmakers. 
But majority Democrats, who have their own ideas for reviving the economy, criticized at the 2,000-page spending plan for fiscal 1993 as it arrived at the Capitol. As for Bush's deadline for action, Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, scoffed, "We don't operate that way." 
Bush would throw the financial might of the government at a wide collection of programs in the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. 
For example, the Head Start pre-school program for poor children would grow by $600 million next year to $2.8 billion, the fight against AIDS would grow from $4.4 billion to $4.9 billion, and highway building would grow from $17 billion to $19.2 billion. 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (above) and other But to help pay for the expansion of some Democrats criticized President Bush's 2,000-page spending plan for initiatives, 246 domestic programs would be 1993 on Wednesday. "We don't operate that way," Mitchell scoffed. eliminated and 84 others would be trimmed. 
Fed Chairman opposes plans for large tax cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Tuesday that tax cuts probably are not needed to revive the economy but said a small package to ensure a recovery was acceptable. 
"I don't think they are necessary at this point, but I understand the desire ... to create insurance," Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee at his confirmation hearing. 
The 65-year-old economist, nominated by President Bush to a second four-year term, offered mild support for many of the tax proposals outlined in the president's State of the Union address. 
But he warned legislators to avoid an election-year bidding war resulting in a huge package of tax cuts and spending increases that, in the long run, would do more 

Alan Greenspan 
damage than good to the economy by ballooning the federal budget deficit. 
Any proposals that increased what Greenspan called the "structural budget deficit" would send inflation fears through financial markets and likely result in higher long-term interest rates, he said. Thus, an excessive stimulative package could actually squelch growth, he said. 
"We have to be quite careful," he said. "My major concern is that ... the types of negotiations that could occur (would) result in a much larger and potentially fiscally disruptive package." 
Even without tax cuts, Greenspan said some "very subtle" signs of economic improvement already have emerged. He repeated two­week-old comments that the in­terest rate cuts already engineered by the Federal Reserve were probably sufficient to produce a recovery. 
"We are beginning to see some very subtle signs that the erosion in the economy is beginning to stabilize," Greenspan said. 
-----------~­
-----~----­
Viewpoint 
Page 12 Thursday, January 30, 1992 

J 0 IN OR DIE. 
PENNSYLVANIA 1765 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Edltor-ln-Chlaf Kelley Tuthill Ma1111glng Editor Bualn-Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor .•.•••...••..•••....•..Monica Yant Advartlalng Manager •••••.Julie Sheridan Vlewpolnl Editor ................. .Joe Moody Ad Daalgn Manager •••••••. Alissa Murphy Sporta Editor •••••••....•...David Dieteman Production Managar ..••••..•••.Jay Colucci Accent Edltor •..•.•••..•.....•...John OBrien Syatama Manager .••...•••.•••••.Mark Sloan 
J 0 IN OR DIE. 
Photo Editor ••..•••....Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ••••••.•••...•.....••Dan Shinnick 
PENNSYLVANIA 1992 
S.lnt Mary'a Edltor .........•.. Emily Willett Controllar ....••....•..••...•.. Thomas Thomas 
~ %(~
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
\$& ~ 
the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 



LmERS TO THE EDITOR 
Recent tragedy reminds us to repent, look to God 
Dear Editor: flees, and then of another event died were not the worst of heaven. Jesus' name, Amen." 
When our alarm radio went in which the Tower of Siloam sinners, but we who are alive We must believe that when This event was a shock to ofT this morning, the news con­fell upon 18 people (Lk. 13:1,4) must repent. Jesus Christ died on the cross most if not all the South Bend cerning the swim team blared and killed them. What does repent mean? How He died for us personally. Each Community. Yet these things loud and clear, I tried to visual­What can be a reaction to can we avoid perishing? How one of us must personally happen so that we as finite hu­ize what had happened as the such events? One can be that can we apply this truth to our believe that only Jesus Christ man beings turn to God so that news announcer shared the someone was a great sinner personal lives? When a person can take away our sins and put we will not perish. It is impos­horrible news. I thought, "How and the judgement of God came repents, he is turning from our faith in what He did on the sible to explain all the reasons could such a terrible event hap­upon them. Jesus asks the same something to something. This cross as the payment for our for last night's event concerning pen?" Another question came to question twice in this pas­word in the Bible has the sins. the swim team, but God desires mind as well, "Why did God sage,"Suppose these were sin­meaning of turning from sin You ask, "How can I person­that all of us who are alive will allow such an event?" I prayed ners above all" who lived in the and turning to God. Why must ally do this?" We must come to turn from our sin, confess it to and asked God for an answer cities in which they lived? (Lk. we do this? God individually and tell Him in Him and put our faith in Jesus and He directed me to a special 13:2,4) We all are sinners and have prayer, "Dear Father, I am a Christ and Him alone for the passage in the Bible that shows It is easy to pass judgement come short of God's standards sinner before you and I need a forgiveness of our sins so we what we must be aware of con­upon someone when something which is perfection. We need Savior. I believe Jesus Christ can get to heaven. cerning terrible events. goes wrong to someone else. someone who can take away died on the cross for my sins. We need God very much and 
The Gospel of Luke shares But there is danger in doing this the sin that we inherited from Please forgive me. I believe He events like this show us why we two terrible events that hap­because Jesus also said that Adam. If we haved sinned only rose again from the dead. I am need to be dependent upon pened in Jesus' day. Chapter 13 these people were not such once we have broken the whole placing my faith in Jesus Christ Him. relates of the time when Pilate terrible sinners but that all law. We need a Savior. We must alone to take away my sins. Stephen Giegerich killed some Galilaeans and then people must repent or they will realize that we cannot do Lord Jesus come into my life South Bend, Ind. mixed their blood in their sacri-perish (Lk. 13:3-5). Those who anything to merit or deserve and save me from my sins. In Jan.25,1992 
Volunteers in inner city confront life's realities, widen perspectives 
Dear Editor: neighbors had made. Oh, what House in Chicago, my Summer reality and lenses which so not draw my focus completely, I 
Looking out my fourth story wishful thinking that is. Service Project site, was reveal­many of us refuse to wear or to have to admit that I see the window, I watched a midnight I know in a few years those ing of the woes of urban minor­realize even exist. The little world and what I do in it a little drug deal while cars drove by four-year-olds, loving, adorable, ity city dwellers. I found that children showed me love and differently than I did when I with boomboxes blaring and happy and excited four-year­until something drastic is done the importance of youth. had only a middle class vision of reverberating through their olds, will become the saddened either through public policy or The awareness that I gained myself and of society. The closed trunks. Gang members and hardened eight and nine­private organization, the fates from my 'summer job' was, in answer to the "what am I going tried their MC Hammer moves year-olds in the neighborhood of my little four year olds, Eric, my opinion, more important to do after I graduate?" on the sidewalk and girls clad and then the defiant and lost Jonathan, Darius, Telia ... , will than any 'practical' experience question is much easier for me in mini-skirts hung out at the teenagers. Many of them will be unchanged. I could have gotten from a con­to discern now. scene. I wondered if the little become teenage parents, My summer, however, was not ventional summer job or in­I am not going to say what four-year-olds I had come to welfare recipients and drug spent just learning the very ternship. I imagine that em­mine is, since each, as individ­love so much through my work users and sellers. Some won't down side of politics, eco­ployers like to see office experi­uals, will come to personalized in the day care center would fmish high school and most will nomics, and sociology. Never ence and some business related conclusions. What I can fairly grow up to 'hang' outside my not go on to college. And, as before had I associated myself work on a resume, but this say is that opening up new ex­window, too. the cycle goes, their lives in the with people so different from summer's experience was the periences and giving of oneself 
The realistic response to my ghetto will be perpetuated by myself, making my summer job best career move I could have are wondrous ways to learn 
inquiry, I knew, was 'most their offspring. also a cultural experience. made for myself. about the world in which we all likely,' but the thought of that I know this is a pretty bleak Both the clients of the service To go to grad school or to get live and about oneself with broke my heart, so I decided picture of what hope there is in agency and the religious who a job, to get a job or do volun­whom we must live. that 'my' kids were too smart the life of an inner city child, ran it were of different kinds. teer work are the questions we Lisa Bernstein 
for that; that they were going to but I cannot yet paint a differ­They saw the world through a are all faced with as the college Walsh Hall make better lives for them­ent one. The summer I spent different pair of lenses, perhaps years go by. Although working Jan.28,1992 selves than many of their older living and working at Marillac lenses that allowed them to see for eight weeks in the ghetto did 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It is better to be hated 
for what a you are than loved for what you are not.· 
Andre Gide 
Who, by fire, can submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
l
8U5H STl:3P5 UP ro me 1 

/ ... A/{)5.... 
I ... /?RLJG'3...• 
7W6HQlJ5T/ONS ..f 

fA/Hl51</3/AJ8'R£ HUI<TINGAS
~IC, WHO's ON THATCXJ'M115·
ANYBOfJY GOTA REAL-CON­

A 50CiffTY15 me 35 ANI?
5/0N, fOuaA/INS!N THe RXJT-
7R.OV!JR51At CN& OR. WANT 70 

OWER-KIN/? or 71-ft AV­
57l?P5 CF 7Ht !3/?UCAT/ON THAT
MAl<& A q[ATl3Met-JT?I UJ4NT 

{}!CT&V C/?()(1./[l/5 NJT
01/CI< ax¥'HAS PUT RY?/AJARI?
50Wt GUY THATRe.AJ1.)IUI4N75 

; 
7D THt BeaNNI'}§_ 15 9AYING, 
51-fAKING IT. ~ 
7lJ 88 7W3H, 50We 7W3H GUY. 

' 
11XJ<, Ur?3Ttw'5/MPOI<TANT. 
~\It_
((}-1015/T~ \ 

" 
...... \­

,,\1~ ~ 
~~ 
~,,­

/ ...AN/?THteNVIRDNM/31/T.. 
ANI?I taJKOUTON-IU G/Vt YOUA PROI3t£M aJTa/ TH/5 NOR7HU/133T. AUACROSS THe CWNTRY, IAJetiAVeA 5ffJT7UJOW/... PR08UM. /WI}, Y£5, aJetuANT70 Sf& TffATUT!lt RJ/?)zy-ftATHtRY GUYPRIJTliCTWANI?A£/... or THAT. 
~\II? 
-;-T~ 


Viewpoint
Thursday, January 30, 1992 Page ·1a 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
AIDS is a disease of risky behaviors, not categories 
Dear Edltor: AIDS." Is this truly what the his myopia and b~gotry and To conclude that "Unless medical care? Hardly so. 
CDC says? The approach is demonstrates the flaw in his you're a hemophiliac, you have He has no right to impose 
I am deeply disturbed by the sound but here neglects the fact argumentation. I boldly ask very little chance of catching these biases upon the basics of views expressed by Rick Acker that AIDS research is presently what it is that gives him the AIDS unless you engage in health care or research. in his recent letter (The focused upon a virus known as right to state that "19 out of [illegal drug use, promiscuous Refusing health care to those Observer, Jan. 24). As a pref­HIV. Many people are infected every 20 people who catch AIDS sex and prostitution]" ignores who are deemed unworthy or ace, I would like to commend by HIV and have not yet devel­are doing something im­the issue at hand. AIDS is unlawful is methodologically this questioning of the amount oped the syndrome called AIDS. moral/illegal"? spreading among the monoga­unsound and is evidence of of funding devoted to AIDS re­This situation is like an On this point he incorrectly mous, the heterosexual groups, fascism. He most certainly is search. I would further rec­iceberg: that seen above water paraphrases the CDC. The and to an increasing number of able to adhere to a set of values ommend that this inquiry ad­(AIDS is but the cap of a large reader is led to believe that this newborns. He entirely ignores and still provide proper health dress many other health care body of ice (HIV infected). Do is the position of the CDC; that that AIDS is a disease of risky care. issues to stimulate the debate the numbers include the HIV in­it would also agree that too behaviors and not of categories. If AIDS were generally easily concerning policy and practice. fected individuals who have not much funding is going to AIDS Funding for AIDS research goes preventable, why are so many Issues of proper distribution are yet developed the syndrome? I research. The CDC was not to the immoral but to the affected? Many issues are so very important but they require say that his representation of established, as was the United sick. easily solved by rhetoric: to a much more thorough and the data is incorrectly applied to States, to insure that every I also argue that his use of stop murder -nobody kill any­
I 
l
objective approach than Mr. the argument. citizen is granted the same analogy is ineffective support body; to stop HIV from spread­Acker has chosen. He adds insult to the injury treatment under the law. I am for his inquiry into proper dis­ing -nobody engage in risky I I take serious issue with his when he digresses from his ar­afraid that it does not show his tribution. His association of a behaviors. It sounds simple. approach to research in what gument to a general quid pro bias. drunk driver with an AIDS pa­In conclusion, I would like to 
-
seems to me to be a blatant quo: every dollar spent on AIDS Dr. Anthony Fauci (Director, tient and an innocent driver ask everyone to learn more example of an obiter dictum. I is taken from other areas of office of AIDS Research, with cancer sufferer implies about AIDS, and health in gen­do not think he has considered research. I don't know enough National Institutes of Health), in that AIDS is acquired by drink­eral, in order to dissuade you the dangerous ramifications about economic theory to argue his presentation last semester, ing the HIV virus. This is silly. from holding any credence to which would arise from his against this unsupported demonstrated that for When faced with two people Acker's us-and-them mentality 
proposal to divert funding from premise. How can he argue epidemiological purposes in need of service, the criterion and moral superiority. Please AIDS research to those which according to "charitable and patients are associated accord­must be an evaluation of physi­make an effort to attend an in­he deems more worthy. governmental spending ing to category: age, gender, cal need rather than human formal talk, Tuesday, Jan. 28 
First, his introduction mis­patterns" as evidence of this? sexual orientation, etc. To be­worth; his is dangerous lan­with Lloyd Sims '71, entitled: represents the essentials of the What are your sources? I do long to one of these groups does guage. According to his asser­Living with AIDS. HIV debate in his quantification not believe that what he says is not necessarily place you at risk tion, is someone with AIDS then and assessment in a dollar correct. of HIV infection; further, to not less human than someone with Brian P. Fitzpatrick value perspective: "$750 per His second reason behind his be in one of these groups does cancer? Further, are mv in­St. Edward's Hall patient was spent fighting argument further demonstrates not remove the risk. fected individuals less of Jan.25,1992 
Greek group responds to 'forgery of history' 
Dear Editor: tempts of the Scopians to iden­struggle which the people of tify themselves with the ancient Yugoslavia are f 
Concerning the two articles, Macedonians is not only un­acing. However we cannot allow "Yugoslavia dies after republics fathomable, but also an outra­anybody's need for freedom recognized," and "Slovenia and geous effort on their part to jeopardize our own freedom Croatia win European recogni­forge the historical truth. and rights. Nor can we allow tion" (The Observer, Jan. 16), The historical fact that the intentional forgery of 
I 
~
the Greek-American Association Macedonia has always been historical facts for political of Notre Dame would like to Greek, and that its ancient res­ambitions. make a few clarifying idents were Greek, has also Although The Observer is an 
1 
statements. been established by a United independent newspaper, it I 
Greece, and formerly named Nations Committee which after serves the Notre Dame and Yugoslavia are neighboring investigating the case presented Saint Mary's community, and it countries in the Balkans. One of by the Scopian leadership, con­must inform students and fac­the major disputes in the area, cluded that no Macedonian mi­ulty over current events prop­is over the way in which the nority exists. erly. The map on page 7 and the name Macedonia is being used. The Macedonians are Greeks. articles in the newspaper, do Macedonia is a province of It is important to mention that not provide accurate infor­Greece, and it dates back to the the Greek government advised mation about the region. We Dear Editor: of this century, about 2 million days of Alexander the Great. the other members of the hope that in the future, articles 
I would like to respond to Rick people in the United States will 
Macedonians spoke the an­European Community during printed in The Observer, will 
Acker's column of Jan. 24, have the AIDS virus. That is cient Greek language, and they the summit of Maastericht, not mention the name "AIDS Is Not Worthy of less than eight years from now. proudly thought of themselves about the intentions of the the Macedonia as a country, when 
Disproportional Funding." Yes, it is true that the spread of 
Republic of Scopia to name in fact there will never be a
as Greeks. They even partici­Acker is not original in appoint­AIDS will be diminished if more pated in the Olympic Games, in their country Macedonia. country called by that name. ing himself to cast that first people avoid certain practices.which non-Greeks where not The E.E.C. came to a unani­If, however, the editor 
stone that Jesus spoke of, but I I strongly support AIDS mous decision not to recognize chooses not to change the false
allowed to participate. These would like to congratulate him awareness programs and all 
historical facts are undisputable any independent state in the name on reprints of articles for reaching new heights in recommendations to practice
by all. The current residents of former Yugoslavian province, if published in other newspapers, blindness and judgmentalism. safe sex, know your partner'sthe southern part of what was its name raises territorial dis­we ask that at the end of any I'm glad that Acker let us sexual history, keep from shar­formerly called Yugoslavia are putes with any country of the such articles, the editor adds know that we can ease up on ing needles, etc. But you know, mainly Slavs, Turks and E.E.C. This is a clear and sharp the following: "The ND/SMC 
the war against AIDS. Now that Mr. Acker, being human doesn't Albanians; they came to the warning to Scopia, towards Greek American Association I know that AIDS is a disease of mean being perfect. Sometimes 
region only after the 7th which the E.E.C shows its de­strongly opposes the use of the illegality and immorality and people forget things. 
century A.D. termination to restore the his­name Macedonia by the should be put on the back Sometimes people are careless, They have no relationship to torical truth. Republic of Scopia as a forgery 
burner in order to focus on or simply trusting -and other In an effort to make the of history. Our efforts coincide
Macedonia whatsoever. Present such honorable diseases such times they are just unlucky. To day leaders of the Republic of people around the world aware with the efforts of the Greek 
as cancer or Alzheimer's, I feel you these people are "guilty."
Scopia, formerly known as of the historical facts, the Greek Embassies all over the world to 
so much better. To me they are individuals with Southern Yugoslavia, are trying Embassies and Consulates in make people aware of the I used to worry about AIDS a cruel, devastating illness ­to convince the world that their the United States and all around issues in the region." 
babies, born into a world for and they deserve every chance 
people are a Macedonian mi­the world, are advising the Stillanos Vouzoukas Dimltrios 
which they didn't have the in the world to be cured. 
nority living in Yugoslavia. They different governments over the Chatzopoulos loannis strength. I used to be bothered I hope for Mr. Acker's sake 
are presently preparing to issue. Konstantopoulos Greek­that many IV drug users, that the year 2000 fmds him in establish the Republic of As a nation having fought a American Association disadvantaged by poverty and the same ivory tower. Because .... 
Macedonia. The malicious at-civil war, we understand the Jan.22,1992 
lack of education, often died if he is down on the street with without even being diagnosed. the rest of us, he might find
Advances in bus safety are imperative 
It used to concern me that the that AIDS has hit his next-door Dear Editor: and friends, students and injury. already marginalized and neighbor, or his best friend, or faculty, the swim team, the ath­Putting aside structural in­stigmatized homosexual a relative. He might find that I extend to the families and letic department, and you. tegrity and operator judgment, community now had to fight the he doesn't have enough time to 
friends of the United Limo ac­I believe some meaning could maybe just the mandatory use widespread misconception that pass around all of the guilt that needs to be handed out. He
cident victims as well as to the be derived from this painful of seat belts by bus passengers AIDS was solely a gay disease. 
University of Notre Dame my moment in Notre Dame History might have saved the lives of And I used to feel sad and might plead, finally, for a little if you (representing a promi­these two lost students and angry that a young person more time, a little more money,
sympathy for the great loss of 
two women and for the hard­nent national institution), even greatly reduced the in­could be infected with the AIDS a little more compassion to be ship and trauma to survivors of Father Hesburgh, the alumni juries or survivors of the United virus during her or his very first spent while it can still make a this recent bus mishap. association, and the student Limo Bus Accident. sexual experience. Thank you, difference. ­
All humans deserve compassion 
I would hope, though, that this body would make an issue for Mr. Acker, for setting me tragedy would amount to more increased bus safety. With such Robert G. Tyler straight. Now I can sleep Linda Chalk than just a very bad accident in pressure, maybe future lives South Bend, Ind. nights. O'Hara-Grace the winter of 1992 for families could be saved and spared Jan.27,1992 It is estimated that by the end Jan.24,1992 

-


The Observer/ Sean Farnan 

You can run, but you can't hide 
"Physics 001: Physics for Poets" turns sniveling PLS majors into 
By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The Keenan Revue. It's back. It's bizarre. And it's blatantly offensive. 
No one emerges unscathed. In the first skit alone, even Sally and Schroeder of "Peanuts" fame have their characters im­pugned. 
As usual, the women of Notre Dame are mocked mercilessly. Keenanites wearing floral skirts and sweatshirts depict NO women in conjunction with excess cellulite, hormonal im­balances, and, in particular, Yo­Cream. 
The administration, the College of Arts and Letters, and the Irish Guard-also wearing floral skirts and sweatshirts-are familiar targets, with a rare nightclub appearance by Lou Holtz, performing such Irish standbys as "Billy Jean." 
Two of the musical numbers are performed by the Blues Brothers and are accompanied by gyrating backup dancers who supply enough beefcake to last the campus until the Mr. Stanford Contest. In fact, boxer shorts seems to be the requisite minimalist costuming for the 
physics gods with convulsive shock therapy. 
"O.P.P." have all been rewritten to serve as dirges deploring the Domer way of life. A unique collection of ballads called "Nun Rock," however, celebrates it. 
In addition to the usual freshman, fat chicks, and fart­ing jokes. some original acts provide an unfettered glimpse into the life of a Domer. 
"Salad Bar Bimbo," one of the more well-received skits of the evening, effectively captures the spirit of the North Dining Hall experience; and Shakespeare meets what is perhaps his greatest challenge when he uses his best lines, schmoozing for babes. 
ing clown murmuring, "Rubber balloons," and Keenan's version of "Deep Thoughts." 
One of the more innovative acts is a positively poetic view of life inside a nose. The audience laughs and cries with the nostril hairs as they take on, among other nasal hazards, boogers. One hair occasionally laments, "I flail... I flail..." 
Several skits zero in on per­ceived shortcomings in rival dorms. The homeless of Pangborn, the lifeless of Zahm, the immenseness of Badin-no one is safe from the Keenan Revue. 
Saint Mary's women fare no better part of the show. There are a few surreal The Keenan Revue has noth­better, although they seem to be In other musical interludes, strains throughout the show, ing good to say. And they're-more anatomically gifted. "Low Places," "Too Sexy," and including an unfortunate-look-saying it. 
I I 
L f 
Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Nebraska back cleared of drug use Police continue to look for causes for strange behavior 
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) -Tests showed no sign of drugs or alcohol in the blood or urine of a University of Nebraska run­ning back charged in the beat­ing of a Lincoln woman on Jan. 18, Lancaster County Attorney Gary Lacey said Wednesday. 
"That means we have to look to another cause" for behavior that led to Scott Baldwin's ar­rest, Lacey said. 
The 22-year-old Baldwin was sent to the Lincoln Regional Center on Jan. 20 for tests to determine his competency to stand trial on charges of first­degree assault and assault of a police officer. 
Lacey filed the charges on Jan. 20, but added that no fur­ther court action will take place until Baldwin is deemed compe­tent to stand trial. 
He told reporters Wednesday that the 23-year-old victim, Gina Sirnanek, is recovering. He said she was transferred from Lincoln General Hospital to the Madonna Rehabilitation Center in Lincoln. 
Lacey said Baldwin's urine and blood were tested for steroids at a lab in San Diego. He said a report from the lab indicated that none of the known prescription or clandes­tine steroids were present. 
"There are some designer steroids that can't be tested for, but the chemist told me there's only a remote chance that they would be available in the Midwest anyway," Lacey said. 
He said the blood and urine samples were taken within six hours of Baldwin's arrest and that's well within the time to provide accurate tests. 
He said he has also asked Baldwin's lawyer if he will al­low hair samples to be taken from the 6-foot-1, 205-pound junior from Roselle, N.J. 
"There are tests on hair that could indicate any drug history for several months," Lacey said. "If the attorney agrees, we'd like to have them done. We've never tried that before." 
Lacey said Baldwin is not re­ceiving any drugs for his agita­tion and has been told that he is lucid and making sense. But, he added that he has no additional 
information  about  the  
treatment  or  Baldwin's re­ 
sponse.  

"His psychiatrist has asked that we forward copies of the police reports of the incident," he added. 
Lacey said police have not questioned Miss Sirnanek. "I've been reluctant to have police question her. We want to make sure she recovers and has a good memory," he said. 
Baldwin started the fall sea­son as the Cornhuskers No. 1 !­back ahead of sophomore Derek Brown and redshirt freshman Calvin Jones. He suf­fered an ankle injury in the first game of the season against Utah State and a later shoulder separation early in his first game back, against Missouri. 
Cason ready for Olympics 
GHENT, Belgium {AP) ­Andre Cason let it be known an Olympic track year is upon us. 
Meanwhile, Merlene Ottey and Katrin Krabbe provided the first sparks in what _is expected to be the biggest Olympian sprinting rivalry. 
Cason set a world record in the 60-rneter dash at the Coke Light Indoor meet Wednesday, clocking 6.45 seconds and improving Leroy Burrell's mark by 0.03 seconds. 
"My goal is gold at the Olympics," he said. "I strongly believe in my possibilities." 
So do Ottey and Krabbe. 
Within moments of each other, Krabbe first set the season's best time in the women's 60-rneter dash in Berlin, only to be upstaged by Ottey in Ghent, who won in 
7.09 seconds, .02 better than 
the German. "Who says Krabbe is the athlete to beat" in Barcelona. Ottey asked of the reigning world champion in the 100 and 200. "If I'm in top shape, it should be enough to win." 
The rivals are unlikely to meet before the Summer Garnes. 
Cason's chances are not rated as high. The reigning indoor world champion is better known for his explosive start than his finish in the 100. 
He ran the opening leg in the 400-rneter relay at the Tokyo World Championships last year, which the United States dominated, 
"My main goal now is the (U.S.) Olympic trials," he said, predicting it would be tougher to get on the U.S. squad than to win in Barcelona. 
Sprinting "is 90 percent a mental game," he said. "The only one that can beat Andre Cason is Andre Cason." 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring near B.P.( NOTICES Saturday night. Reward. Call Sean  LFORRENT  Need to buy NO vs MICH  YANKEE DOODLE WENT TO KERRY­TOWN, A-RIDING ON A PONY, Light of my life.  
at x1004.  B-Ball tix  STUCK A FEATHER IN HIS HAT Fire of my loins.  
HOUSE FOR RENT IN '92/'93  Pat#3360  AND CALLED IT SMEGMARONI. 1-4-3.  
USED TEXTBOOKS!  5BR. 2 BTH. 1800 SQ FT.  -TIMMY  
Buy & Sell Books Lost: Eye glasses and/in a black  washer/dryer, recently remodeled,  
Pandora's Books soft case. Lost on 1/29 possibly  near ND  NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-MICH B­ 
3 blks. from NO between Flanner and JACC.  call 232-8256  BALL!!  chirp chirp We've been helping to meet the  
233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun Contact Joe at x-1581  CALL BETH 284-4409.  needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual  
students and their friends for almost  
FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH  Yo Marten, 20 years. Write us with your  
ALTERATIONS AND LOST: Gold chain with half  TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN.  Need Mich-ND  Just exactly how did the revolving questions or suggestions.  
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL heart pendant. Monday  FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST  tix in a BIG way!  door get caught, hmmm? As for the CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED!  
259-8684. evening between SDH & JACC.  LAST + SEC. 684-3778.  Derek X1374  picture. well that was actually  
VERY, VERY SENTIMENTAL!!!  or x1373  scaled down to fit the "frame" it was GL!@/SMC. Box 194, Notre Dame.  
Call Ryan x1134.  in. Close, but not fully represented. IN 46556  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  PERSONALS  Anyway, we haven't scanned in a long time, you're right. I know how  
LOST: Gold chain with half  
 much you love to scan, and, though Monk: selective blindness lor 15  
heart pendant. Monday  you're not completely proficient yet, years makes me wonder: what  
URBAN PLUNGERS of this year evening between SDH & JACC.  HOMES FOR RENT  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  you've got a lot of potential. You just can't you see, now?-Michael  
and past years are invited to VERY SENTIMENTAL!!! .  WALK TO CAMPUS  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  need that little push to get you  
join in conversation and a Call Ryan x1134.  232-3616  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  started. -R­ 
question and answer period  289-1993. Office near campus.  Why isn't your dorm a Safe Haven?  
with Low Nanni and Mary Yu  Why isn't your class a Safe Haven?  
on Monday, February 3, 6:30 Lost: sterling silver ring  ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL  R. GARR SCHWARTZ Why isn't your organization a Safe  
to 7:30PM in the TV Lounge with gold plating on front  UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794  SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER  "Mr. Brewtown" Haven? Take care of yourself and  
of Siegfried Hall. and round blue lapis stone. Sentimental value. If found.I please call at X2948. LOST/FOUND  PAUL. FOR SALE  VACATIONS! Jamaica, Bahamas including airfare, great hotel, and much more from only $599. Buy from the #1  She was married.. your friends: do something about it! CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO  
._F_O-UN_D_:_s-et_o_fk-e-ys-w-it-h-ke_y_ _. \ WANTED  name you trust for quality vacations.  AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL LOST: QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE FAITH IN OUR DORM  
IBM PS/2 55 386SX 60MBHD  FOUR SEASONS  CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. Looking for 2-3 people to get  
chain on the road between the  2MBRam Math Co-Proc Software  1-800-331-3136.  house with us for 92-92.  
War Memorial and Nieuwland EARN UP TO $2000/MONTH  Installed: Windows 3.0 MSWORD  BECKY 2513 DIANNE 2534  
around 7:30p.m. on Thursday PROCESSING HUD/FHA REFUNDS  EXCEL WP51  Carnations are pink  
evening 1/23. Call x2822 to IN YOUR SPARE TIME AS A U.S  $1750.  SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS  Carnations are white  
claim. GOVERNMENT TRACER. CALL  Manuel 283-433 or 239-8528  London (5/20-6/19) and Rome  Sop this NONSENSE, Hey, Nancy N­ 
THE U.S GOVERNMENT TRACERS  (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland,  It's all RIGHT. Are you a bloody english major?  
HOTLINE AT 303-949-2174. 24  Scotland. England. France.  The american studies guy  
LOST: 10 case w/ Driver's License. HOURS.  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  Germany, Switzerland, and  
10, Senior Bar Card, and $15. Last  89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50,  Northern Italy. Courses in bio.  hey nil  
Wed. in Cushing  87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG  business, education. history,  Rich-meister & Marten-chick:  
Contact Patricia x3865 SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA  $50. Choose from thousands  photography, poly sci, Italian, soc.  From: Santa Claus  
Please return. I don't exist BEACHES. ENERGETIC  starting $25. FREE 24 Hour  Organizational meeting FEB. 17,  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA I sure hope things are going well. If  
without it!!!!!!! PROMOTER NEEDED. EARN FREE  Recording Reveals Details 801­ 6:30 pm, Carroll hall (SMC). For  Info on semester. year, graduate, ya'll ever need any presents or just  
TRIPS AND CASH. CALL CMI AT  379-2929 Copyright# 1 N11 KJC  info call Prof. Black 284-4460  summer and internship programs in a little "ho" call me up at the big  
LOST: Red-Orange silk scarf made 1-800-423-5264  (office) or 272-3726 (home).  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and pole.  
into a hairbow. Sunday morning  Melbourne. Programs start at (about 8 inches north, eh?)  
between NOH and  $3520. Caii1-B00-878-3696.  
Mod quad. CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO  Zenith Portable Laptop, bklit,  START MAKING SPRING BREAK  
Contact Patricia x3865 AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL  w/batt, 2 3.5" drives, EC,  PLANS!!!  Gail Lynn: I admit it. "I'm Vito the  
Please return, VERY DEEP QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE  Call Chris x1723  ... take a Bahamas cruise-6 days on  The Lizard King lives on! Down with Fish Man". Maybe on our next date  
SENTIMENTAL VALUEI!!! CALL 283-371 0 BY FEBRUARY 11 .  Grand Bahama lsland+cruise+hotel  the Crustaceans! you should try wearing a bra and  
only $279  panties to bed. I did enjoy the  
... make a run for the border-go to  black camasol though, my little  
$40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and TV  Gateway 2000, 386/SX,  Cancun. Includes rdtrp air +hotel for  A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days Guppy. Love and fish kisses.  
LOST a pair of clear pink Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't  4 months old, 40 meg. HO.,  only$ $499  $279! Panama City $99, Padre T  
glasses in a pink case like" form. EASY! Fun. relaxing at  Windows 3.0, MS Dos 5.0,  ... or chill in Jamaica, mon  $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399  
between Galvin and Farley home, beach, vacations.  14" color monitor. much more.  from Chicago. Call Lance 271­ 
on 1/21 If found please call Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24  $1,395 or will consider offer.  Also: South Padre and Panama City  1681 or Lisa 283-4667 To the three women's soccer  
Carolyn X4053 Hour Recording 801-379-2925  Jeff 271-1822.  for $199 and $99  or 1-800-638-6786. players who gave us a ride  
Copyright #IN11KEB  Saturday night,  
Call LISA 283-4667  Thanks for the ride. We owe you a  
LOST: GOLD RING WITH JADE  COMING FEB. 8TH!!! big one!  
STONE. LOST ON JAN 22ND IN YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO  Need any house PAINTING done?  7:30PM, WASHINGTON HALL The Hitchhikers in Dillon  
ROOM 23 OF HAYES-HEALY. HAS LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING  Experienced, quality painting  7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE  7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD  
MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. BREAK IN JAMAICA/CANCUN,  at reasonable prices. Call Mark at  ISLAND FROM $199.  CONTEST.  
$REWARD. CALL FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL,  277-6578.  CALL JAMES 277-9249  TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER  
LISA AT X4832 AIR, TRANSFERS.  Hey Bill, Mia, Liz. Lisa, and  
SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­ Willi Fresh,  
7710.  Nintendo system w/cartridges.  ORCHESTRA MEMBERS:  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE REMEMBER! THERE IS NO I IN  
FOUND: ring near Farley & BP. Call  Best offer. Call Paul x1220  T-Shirts will be available  CLUB FONDOU!!!  
x4092 to identify.  for $7 each at rehearsal.  If you missed our first Your Pal,  
SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona,  Support the orchestra!  meeting, don't despair! CuttButt  
$149, Cancun $489, Bahamas  MOVING SALE: recliner-$100,  Come to Stepan Center  
LOST: Lavender glasses case 1/24 $449.  colonial sofa-$300, coffee table­ on Thurs. Jan. 30 from To Beth Duane,  
in or around LaF/O'Shag Best prices & accommodations  $50. Call Jim 233-2588.  AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL  8-9:30 and we'll start I felt the impetus to write you  
Call #3729. guaranteed!!! 1 (BOO) 724-1555 or  GROUP#43  over just tor you! C'mon begging for forgiveness. Forgetting  
236-5825 (24 hrs.)  TICKETS  is meeting Sunday night at 8:30 pm in the Montgomery  CARPE DIEM! your birthday was the worst mistake of my life. You are such a  - 
Theatre of LaFortune­ wonderful person, however, that I  
Found: A set of keys on a Notre  Piease join us!  know you'll be able to forgive me.  
Dame key chain outside the JACC Keenan Review ticket: start  garth brooks is an overrated Happy Belated 21st. Will flowers  
last Friday night. To claim call $30 -will go higher, call  MICH-ND B-BALL TICKETS  drugstore cowboy. be enough? Or orange boxers?  
x2963 Mitch x4153  NEEDED. 284-5084.  I love Chris Lozier  -Willie. Waylon, and the boys What'II it take? -Rich  


SCOREBOARD 
Thursday, Jan1,1arv 30, 1992 

NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS AP MEN'S TOP 25 
EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE 1. Duke (15-0) did not play. Next: at No. 23 Florida State, Thursday,
Alllnllc Dlvlelon Plllrlc:k Dlvlelon 
w l Pet GB l10 ShU Home Away Coni 2. UCLA {14-1) lost to No. 25 Southern Cal 86­
w l T Pta GF GA Home Awey Dlv 
New York 27 15 .643 7-3 Won 4 16-4 11-11 19-11 NY Rangers 32 17 2 66 200 166 16-6-1 16-11-1 82. Next: at No. 24 Louisville, Sunday. 
11-8-0 Boeton 27 16 .628 1/2 6-4 Won 2 18-6 9-10 17-11 Washington 29 17 4 62 214 167 14-8-1 15-9-3 14-9-0 
3. Oklahoma St. {19-0) did not play. Next: vs. No. 

Miami 21 23 .477 7 5-5 Won 2 16-6 5-17 15-13 Pittsburgh 25 19 5 55 216 187 10-10-4 15-9-1 13-11-2 8 Missouri, Sunday. 
Philadelphia 21 23 .477 7 5-5 Lost 2 14-8 7-15 13-16 New Jersey 24 16 7 55 181 146 15-7-3 9-9-4 4. Indiana {15-2) did not play. Next: at No. 13
8-9-4 

New Jersey 19 .442 81/2 6-4 3 6-14 NY Islanders 24 40 192 7-13-2 Michigan State, Saturday.
24 Lost 13-10 10-17 17 6 174 10-11-4 7-9-3 Washington 14 28 .333 13 2-8 Lost 7 6-15 8-13 7-19 Philadelphia 15 24 9 39 136 167 10-8-6 5-16-3 5-12-3 5. Kansas {15-1) did not play. Next: at No. 18 
Orlando 11 31 .262 16 4-6 Lost 1 7-14 4-17 8-16 Oklahoma. Saturday. AdllmaDivlelon 
6. Connecticut (16-1) did not play. vs. St. John's 

at Madison Square Garden, Saturday. Chicago 37 6 .860 9-1 Lost 21-2 16-4 24-3 7. Arkansas (t7-3) did not play. Next: at 
Central Division Montreal 31 17 4 66 164 120 19-7-1 12-10-3 16-7-2 
Boston 25 19 6 56 176 170 16-7-2 9-12-4 12-8-3 
Cleveland 28 .683 6-4 1 11-9 Buffalo 19 9 47 181 6-15-5 Tennessee, Wednesday, Feb. 5.
13 8 Won 17-4 22-7 22 178 13-7-4 7-10-3 Dalrok 24 .545 6-4 Lost 1 13-9 11-11 Hartford 15 24 7 37 141 161 8-10-7 7-14-0 7-12-4
20 131/2 13-14 8. Missouri {14-2) did not play. Next: at No. 3 
Allanta 14 5-5 Won 2 14-6 9-14 11-13 Oklahoma State, Sunday. Milwaukee 19 23 .452 17112 2-8 Lost 5 14-6 5-17 12-14 9. Arizona {13-3) did not play. Next: vs. Oregon, Indiana 16 28 .364 211/2 3-7 Won 1 12-10 4-18 9-17 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Thursday. 
Charlotte 12 31 279 25 3-7 Lost 1 8-13 4-18 8-18 Norrie Dlvlalon 10. Ohio St. (12-3) did not play. Next: at Illinois, Thursday. 
23 20 .535 Quebec 12 32 5 29 149 200 12-13-1 0-19-4 6-11-2 
w l T Pta GF GA Home Awey Dlv WESTERN CONFERENCE Detroit 28 14 7 63 204 160 17-7-3 11-7-4 12-5-2 
11. North Carolina (14-3) did not play. Next: at No. 20 Georgia Tech, Sunday.

MldwMt Division Chicago 24 18 10 58 174 155 17-6-4 7-12-6 9-8-4 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni 12. Syracuse {14-3) did not play. Next: vs. Seton
St. Louis 21 20 9 51 176 173 15-7-3 6-13-6 7-10-3 
17 6-4 46 167 Hall. Saturday.
Ulah 28 .622 Won 1 18-2 10-15 16-7 Minnesota 21 22 4 156 13-9-3 8-13-1 9-9-3 
San Antonio 25 18 .581 2 6-4 Won 3 14-5 11-13 16-11 Toronto 15 30 5 35 133 184 10-13-2 5-17-3 6-11-2 13. Michigan St. {13-3) lost to No. 15 Michigan Houston 23 19 .548 31/2 6-4 Won 1 14-7 9-12 14-9 89-79, OT. Next: vs. No. 4 Indiana. Saturday. Denver 17 24 .415 9 4-6 Won 2 14-9 3-15 10-17 Smythe Dlvlelon 14. Kentucky (15-4) beat Mississippi 96-78. Next: 
Dati• 13 29 .310 13112 1-9 Lost 3 8-14 5-15 8-15 Vanrouver 28 14 7 63 173 141 15-6-4 13-8-3 15-7-3 at LSU, Sunday. 
Minnesota 7 191/2 1-9 Lost 5-17 2-18 5-22 15. Michigan {12-4) beat No. 13 Michigan State
35 .167 9 Winnipeg 21 22 9 51 156 158 13-10-2 8-12-7 6-9-5 89-79, OT. Next: vs. No. 10 Ohio State, Sunday.
Calgary 21 21 7 49 188 173 11-7-4 10-14-3 10-10-2 Padllc Dlvlelon Los Angeles 19 19 11 49 178 189 10-7-8 9-12-3 10-8-5 16. Tulane (15-1) did not play. Next: vs. Southern 
Miss.. Thursday. Golden Stale 28 13 .667 1 1/2 5-5 Lost 3 13-7 13-6 San Jose 11 2-22-2 17. N.C. Charlotte (13-3) did not play. Next: vs. 
Portland 29 13 .890 8-2 Won 4 18-5 11-8 13-9 Edmonton 19 26 7 45 184 203 10-10-3 9-16-4 11-12-4 
18-10 35 4 26 127 218 9-13-2 8-14-3 
Phoenix 29 15 .659 1 8-2 Won 3 17-3 12-12 18-7 No. 24 Louisville, Thursday. LA Lakers 26 16 .619 3 7-3 Won 3 15-6 11-10 16-11 18. Oklahoma (14-3) beat Texas Southern 110­Seattle 21 23 .477 9 3-7 Lost 1 12-10 9-13 14-11 85. Next: vs. No.5 Kansas. Saturday.
Tueaday'a Game• Tlu'acllly'a Gamea LA Clippers 20 23 .465 91/2 3-7 Lost 3 14-8 6-15 11-15 19. Texas-EI Paso {16-1) did not play. Next: at
Minnesota 4, Hartford 3 Calgary at Boston, 7:35p.m. Philadelphia 3, Washington 2 Minnesota at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. 
Sacramento 13 30 .302 161/2 5-5 Lost 1 10-9 3-21 5-20 Utah, Thursday.
Winnipeg 4, Pittsburgh 0 N.Y. Islanders at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
20. Georgia Tech (15-5) did not play. Next: vs. Boston 4, Quebec 2 N.Y. Rangers at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
No. 11 North Carolina. Sunday.St. Louis 3, Los Angeles 3, tie St. Louis at San Jose. 10:35 p.m. 
21. UNLV (17-2) did not play. Next: at Utah 'IUMday'a Gamea N.Y. Rangers 4, San Jose 2 Chicago at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
State, Thursday.Boeton 98, Washington 87 Edmonton 5, Vancouver 3 
22. Alabama (16-4) did not play. Next: vs. 

Seattle 102, Orlando 97 Frlday'a Gamea Florida, Saturday.
Delroft 100, Charlotte 95, OT Thuracllly'• a-Wedneacllly'a Games Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. 23. Florida St. {13-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 1 Allanta 110, PhUadelphia 109 Orlando at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Buffalo 4, Detroit 4, tie New Jersey at Detro~. 7:35p.m. 
Duke, Thursday.San Antonio 109, Chicago 1 04 Chicago at Houston, 8:30 p.m. New Jersey 4, Montreal 3 Quebec at Winn~. 8:35p.m. 

24. Louisville (12-4) did not play. Next: at. No. 17 

Houston 111, Minnesota 102 LA Lakers at Denver, 9 p.m. Toronto 5, Quebec 2 Hartford at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. 
N.C. Charlene, Thursday.

Sacramento 124, New Jersey 118 Chicago 4, Edmonton 3 25. Southern Cal (14-3) beat No. 2 UCLA 86-82. 
Portland 124, Golden State 116, OT Friday'• Gamea Next: vs. Washington St., Thursday, Feb. 6. 
Orlando a1 PhUadelphla. 7:30 p.m. w.me.day'a Gamsa New York at Washington, 7:30 p.m. COLLEGE BASKETBALL SCORES New York 101. Washington 89 Atlanta at Indiana. 7:30p.m. 
EAST Cincinnati 93, Xavier, Ohio 75 AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
Indiana 115, Phiadelphia 90 Seattle at Charlene, 7:30p.m. 
Bucknell 86, Lehigh 78 Detroo 91, Youngstown St. 64
Miami 119, Seattle 114 Miami at DetroH, 8 p.m. Cleveland 95, Detroit 90 Boston at Milwaukee, 8 p.m. Duquesne 94, St. Francis, Pa 70 Iowa 73, Wisconsin 66 
1. 
Maryland (17-1) did not play. 

2. 
Virginia (17-1) did not play.



Allanta 110, Milwaukee 100 Chicago at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. Fordham 72, Army 49 Kansas St. 72, Mo.-Kansas City 53 3. Stanford (14-1) did not play.
San Antonio 109, Dallas 93 Minnesota at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. George Washington 72, Rhode Island 70 Kent 64, E. Michigan 56 4. Tennessee (13-2) did not play.
Utah 124, Sacramento 105 Phoenix at Utah, 9:30 p.m. Georgetown 61, St. John's 48 Miami, Ohio 99, Cent. Michigan 81 5. Iowa (14-1) did not play.
Phoenix 128, New Jersey 95 New Jersey at Portland, 10 p.m. 
Lafayette 75, Navy 62 Michigan 89, Michigan St. 79, OT 6. Stephen F. Austin (15-1) did not play.
LA Lakers 112. Golden State 99 Denver at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
Pittsburgh 82, Miami 52 Minnesota 92, Northwestern 50 7. Mississippi (18-1) beat Jackson St. 65-44. 
N. Illinois 62, Loyola, Ill. 56 8. Penn St. (14-4) did not play. SOUTH Notre Dame 74, DePaul 69 9. George Washington (14-2) did not play.
TRANSACTIONS Clemson 81, W. Carolina 71 W. Michigan 84, Ohio u. 75 10. Purdue (12-3) did not play. East Carolina 66, William & Mary 59 
11. Vanderbin (13-4) did not play.

BASEBAU BASKETBAU 12. Miami (17-1) did not play.
James Madison 84, George Mason 47 SOUTHWEST
American L•ooa.. Nali.,.l Bukalbalt Aaaoclalion 
13. Washington (12-4) did not play.

BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms whh Herm BOSTON CELTICS-Waived Tony Massenburg, KentuckY 96. Mississiooi 78 Arkansas St. 78, SW Louisiana 57 14. W. Kentucky (12-4) did not play.
Winningham, outfielder, on a one-year contract. forward. LSU 97, Tennessee 82 Houston 69, Texas A&M 65 15. Clemson (12-5) did not play.
Designated Derek Livernois, phcher, for assign­DALLAS MAVERICKS-Suspended James Memphis St. 72, Vanderbin 70, OT Oklahoma 110, Texas Southern 85 16. Houston (15-3) beat Texas A&M 79-78, OT. 
ment. Donaldson, center, for one game whhout pay, lor Mississippi St. 75, Auburn 72 Southern U. 109, Lamar 94 17. Hawaii ( 15-2) did not play.
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Invited Nelson lighting wHh a teammate during practice. N.C.-WIImlngton 83, Old Dominion 62 Texas Tech 118, Houston Baptist 53 18. SW Missouri (14-2) did not play.
Santovenla, Clemente Alvarez, Darrln Campbell PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS-Placed Lamont Richmond 82, American U. 60 19. Texas Tech (14-3) did not play.
and Rogello Nunez, catchers; Chris Cron, Joe Hall, Strothers, guard, on the Injured list. Activated Ennis 
VMI62, N.C.-Asheville 51 20. Kansas (15-3) beat Oklahoma St 64-60.
Ever Magall~. and Mike Robertson, Infielders; Whatley, guard, from the Injured list. 
Virginia 82, Maryland 75 FAR WEST 21. California (12-3) did not play.
Bred Komminsk and Shawn Jeler, outfielders, and Continental Baskelball Association 
Wake Forest 86, N. Carolina St. 73 22. Northwestern (8-8) did not play.
Fresno St. 76, New Mexico St. 69Mike Dunne and Rodney Bofton, ~chers, to spring CBA-Suspended Ken Bannister, Albany 23. North Carolina (13-3) did not play.

Gonzaga 86, Portland 73training as non-roster players. Patroons forward, lor failure to abide by the 24. Alabama (14-4) did not play.

DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms wHh Eric league's substance abuse policy. MIDWEST S. Utah 93, W. Texas St. 86 25. West Virginia (13-2) did not play.
King, phcher, on a one-year contract. 
Ball St. 91, Bowling Green 88, 30T Southern Cal 86, UCLA 82 
-~~=-r--..-­

KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms w~h Luis Aquino, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms wHh Car1 Willis and Rich Garces, phchers, and Cheo Garcia. Infielder, on one-year contracts. Agreed to terms with Bill Krueger, pitcher, on a contract with Portland cl the Pacific eo..t League. 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms whh Allan Anderson, pitcher, on a contract with Colurrbus ol the International League. NatiONII l.Hgue 
COLORADO ROCKIES-Named Jim McAndr­
pert-tlme scout. 

NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terrns with Junior Noboa. second baseman. on a one-year contract . 
...._l..aague 

BELOIT BREWERS-Named Jim Jarecki assis­tant general manager and Herman Sorcher director cl medla-p\bllc relations. 
The Chinese Golden DragonAcrobats and Magicians of Taipei 
Thursday and Friday 
February 6 and 7 8:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets $8-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
$10-General Admission Group rates available LaFortune Center Box office 

NOW PLAYING 

--~--~­
~------------~----------~-----~--------------­
Thursday, January 30,1992 The Observer page 17 
Jordan tells NBA that his image is off-limits on clothing 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) ­Michael Jordan has told the NBA it may no longer sell apparel bearing his image, giving Nike Inc. those rights exclusively. 
The Oregonian reported Jordan's decision, confirmed by the league, in Wednesday's editions. The move, unprecedented in the NBA, means millions of dollars. 
Jordan, 28, who led the Chicago Bulls to their first NBA championship last year, is 
Comeback 
continued from page 24 
Stephens, and freshman Cara Garvey battled past the two UIC relay teams accompanied by the cheers of the large crowd and won the event by several strokes. 
In the second event, the 1000­yard freestyle, junior All­American Tanya Williams cruised to victory while senior Heather Winiecki finished third. In the next event, the 200 freestyle, senior Kay McKinney was touched out by Flame Caryn Pratapas. Garvey placed third in the event. 
among the most charismatic ­and profitable -personalities in the league. 
While the NBA no longer may sell Michael Jordan shirts, you'll find all the Jordan wear you want at Nike, which already rakes in about $200 million a year on his image. 
The Beaverton-based company's Air Jordan basketball shoes, named for Jordan's gravity-defying on­court performance, are among its best sellers. 
The Irish managed to assem­ble a full field for the 50-yard freestyle sprint. Junior Christine Van Patten was the highest finisher for Notre Dame in second place. Freshman Michelle Lower placed fourth, Stephens placed fifth, and sophomore Colette LaForce placed sixth. 
Bethem and Broderick went one-two in the 200 individual medley and finished seconds apart. Williams was the only Irish entrant in the 200 butter­fly, but it didn't matter as she coasted to any easy victory with a time of 2:09.70. Garvey beat Pratapas to the touch pad and captured the victory in the 100 freestyle while Lower (4th) and LaForce (5th) also swam well. 
Jordan has been on the Nike payroll since 1984. He will earn $21.2 million this year for hawking products ranging from Nike shoes to Wheaties cereal to Gatorade sports drink, according to published reports. 
Industry sources told The Oregonian that Nike, the world's largest marketer of athletic shoes and clothing, persuaded Jordan to end his apparel licensing involvement with the NBA. 
"Nike, with Jordan under its 
In another one-two Irish finish, Stephens and Broderick teamed up respectively for the big win. 
Williams captured her third victory of the day in the 500 freestyle to go along with her wins in the 200 fly and the 1000 free. The meet was not one of her best, but at least she's on the right track. 
"She is a great athlete, a great trainer, a great heart, and a great spirit; she'll be back," said Welsh of Williams. "Five days out of the water is hard. Five days back in the water and we'll all feel better." 
Bethem was the only swim­mer who was a double winner for the Irish. After winning the 200 IM, she captured the 200 breaststroke event. Winiecki wing, is strong-arming the NBA," Jeff Atkinson, editor of Sports Trend magazine in Atlanta, said. 
But Nike spokesman Dusty Kidd denied the company had any part in the decision. 
"It's strictly between Michael and the league," Kidd said, 
Seth Sylvan, who manages licensing for the NBA, said the league made $1.1 billion last year from the sale of licensed products, most of it Chicago Bulls merchandise. 
finished in fifth place for Notre Dame. 
Sophomore Vicki Catenacci was the sole representative from Notre Dame in the diving competition and despite the solitude took first place in both the one-meter and the three­meter events. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team is not going to quit competing anytime soon. 
"Our intention is to complete the season," said Welsh. "Winning is doing what's im­portant now and what's impor­tant now is getting back in the water. We believe in energy, prayer, and the spirit of Notre Dame. We believe we will suc­ceed on self-discipline and on our love for each other." 
~ 
-~ 3 d 
... :/
!l&.:rJ!. 
,.,~ 

GENERAL MOTORS 
VOLUNTEER SPIRIT AWARD 
©1989 


University of Notre Dante Center for Social Concerns 
Rewards Your Volunteer Spirit! 
General Motors will prowfly present an award to three shUfents {rom your campus who hllve served as volunteers within the campus and the community. Ea&h award recipient will receive: 
Aplaque signed by the Aceremony and reception for college/university president or recipients, family, and guests chancellor and the Chairman of 
Media recognition in campus
•

General Motors 
and hometown newspapers,• Five shares of General Motors and potential TV news 
Corporation Common stock coverage 
Applications IIVIIilllble lit: 
Center for Social Concerns (219) 239-5293 
Deadline for applications is: Friday, March 6, 1992 
CHEVROLET· PONTIAC· OLDSMOBILE BUICK·CADILLAC·GMC TRUCK 

©1989 
Spirit 
continued from page 24 
events to cut a 31 point lead to seven, but the Irish rebounded to win four of the last six events. 
Last night's win is just the first step in overcoming the shock of last weekend's tragic accident, but it is an important one. 
"We're getting it back to­gether," Gibbons added. "Everybody still has to deal with the grief and things will never be the same, but we're gaining courage and strength from this." 
The results certainly back up that claim. Winners of six individual events and the 400­yard medley relay, the Irish cruised to their third consecutive victory and looked like they had never been away from the pool. 
Along with preparing them­selves physically for their first meet in nearly two weeks, the men's team also set up the entire meet themselves so coach Tim Welsh could spend his time with the women's team. 
"I'm proud of the men be­cause of they way they raced and because they took it upon themselves to organize the meet," Welsh said. "They said 'Coach, you worry about the women's meet and we'll take care of ours.' That was a tremendous contribution." 
Several swimmers made big contributions in the pool as well. Gibbons won the 100­yard freestyle and fellow freshman Mike Keeley won the 500-yard freestyle. Sean Hyer was a winner in the 3­meter diving competition and Greg Cornick was first in the 200-yard freestyle. Colin Cooley, Roger Rand and Preston Martin took the top three places in the crucial 200-yard breaststroke, which helped the Irish pull away near the end of the meet. 
Because of the importance of mental preparation in swimming, winning last night's meet is a credit to the closeness of this team, which has had to overcome some huge obstacles during the past week. 
"This has been really tough," Gibbons explained, "but if we can get through this I can't think of anything we won't be able to get through." 
REDUCE RECYCLE REUSE 
Many Happy Returns 
Let Us Help You with Your&92 Taxes 
Booi<pciNfER® 
We lle/p you find boob you 'II love. 
Ironwood Plaza North (near the new Martin's) Highway 23 at Ironwood South Bend, IN 46637 (219)277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
-

Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer page 18 
UCLA falls from ranks of the unbeaten as USC rolls 
Georgetown moves into second place in Big East; Kentucky, Michigan win conference games 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -UCLA had survived a couple of scares this season, but the second­ranked Bruins couldn't survive falling behind 22 points to Southern Cal in the first half. 
The No. 25 Trojans got a career-high 23 points from Duane Cooper and held off UCLA's rally to hand the Bruins their first loss of the season, 86­82 Wednesday night. 
Southern Cal (14-3 overall, 6­1 Pacific-1 0) took their crosstown rivals by surprise and won at Pauley Pavilion for the first time since a four-overtime victory in 1985. 
The Trojans were ahead 75­65 with two minutes left and, after UCLA (14-1, 6-1) closed to 82-79, held on at the foul line. 
"I wish I could say it was the coach or the players but I'm still trying to figure out how we won," said USC coach George Raveling, who got his first win at UCLA in six tries since coming to USC. 
Raveling, formerly at Iowa and Washington State, had been 0-16 at Pauley Pavilion overall. To explain his first victory, he could start with Cooper's 4-for-5 3-point shooting and a 20-point performance by Yamen Sanders, both of whom shot 7 off 11 from the floor and contributed to the Trojans' 41­19 lead late in the first half. 
"When we were up 22, it was very surprising," said Sanders, who had 13 points in the half. "My shot in the first half was falling. (Don) MacLean was letting me catch the ball and turn around and shoot." 
Harold Miner added 22 points for Southern Cal, which led 41­19 late in the first half. Miner, averaging 27.4 points, was held to seven points in the first half. 
He played the final five minutes with four fouls, but helped the Trojans by making 7 of 8 free throws in the final two minutes. 
"The guys really stepped forward" when he was on the bench, Miner said. "We're a very close team and at the end of the game, we just kept encouraging each other to hang in there and we did." 
After the Bruins rallied to within 58-56 with 7:39 to play, Southern Cal came back to score the next seven points, including five from Sanders. 
UCLA got three straight 3­pointers from Tracy Murray and Mitchell Butler down the stretch but couldn't catch up. 
"I thought we were in it all the way down to the last 40 or so seconds," Murray said. "We were hitting the 3s but they would come back and hit their foul shots." 
Murray and MacLean each had 21 points. 
G'town 61, St John's 48 
LANDOVER, Md. -Alonzo Mourning scored 20 points and Irvin Church had 16 Wednesday night as Georgetown moved into second place in the Big East by beating St. John's 61-48. 
Church, a freshman guard, hit four 3-pointers for the Hoyas, who improved their record to 12-4. St. John's fell to 10-7. 
The game was tied 11 times over the first 30 minutes before Georgetown pulled away. The Hoyas took a 41-39 lead on a pair of free throws by Mourning with 10:08 left, and a jumper by Mourning made it 43-39 one minute later. A 3-pointer by Church at 8:30 gave Georgetown a seven point lead, and two free throws by Robert Churchwell made it 48-39. 

St. John's finally broke a drought of almost five minutes when Jason Buchanan hit a 3­pointer at 5:30, cutting the gap to 48-42, but Joey Brown answered with a 3-pointer that rebuilt the Hoyas nine point margin. 
The Redmen, who had enjoyed an early 11-4 lead, had only three field goals and no free throws in the final ten minutes of play. 
Malik Sealy, who scored the first six points for St. John's, finished with 12 to lead the Redman. Lamont Middleton, who had 11 in the opening half, did not score again. 
Okla-11 0, TX Southern 85 
NORMAN, Okla.-Oklahoma coach Billy Tubbs didn't think his 18th-ranked Sooners were excited about playing Texas Southern. It showed. 
The Sooners only led by six at halftime Wednesday night, then used a 9-0 run at the start of the second half to break the game open en route to a 110-85 victory. 
"The first half was a yawner to say the least. I don't know if anybody was ready," Tubbs said. "The band even hit some bad notes. 
"I thought we got our players' attention in the second half and actually made some progress." 
Damon Patterson scored 23 points and Angelo Hamilton added a career-high 21 as Oklahoma (14-3) played its last non-Big Eight Conference game of the regular season. 
David Arceneaux led Texas Southern (8-11) with 24 points 
and 14 rebounds and Charles 
Moore had 14 points. 

A letdown by Oklahoma was to be expected. The Sooners were coming off a come-from­behind victory Monday night against Nebraska and No. 5 Kansas is coming in on Saturday. 
"Fortunately, this is our last non-conference game," Tubbs said. "There's not any games now that aren't big. 
"We're clear of that now and we'll turn our attention rapidly and be ready to play a Kansas team that's just a really good team. I think we'll have our players' attention in practice the next two days." 
Kentucky 96, Miss. 78 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -Jamal Mashburn returned to form, and so did Kentucky. 
The 6-foot-8 sophomore forward scored 24 points and pulled down seven rebounds as the 14th-ranked Wildcats snapped a two-game losing streak by running past Mississippi 96-78 in the Southeastern Conference. 
Mashburn was coming off his worst outing of the season, a four-point, four-rebound effort in a 105-88 loss to Arkansas last Saturday. He averages 20.9 points and 7.3 rebounds. 
"I really didn't want to press myself," said Mashburn, who has scored in double figures in 18 of Kentucky's 19 games. "I wanted to stay within myself. 
"If I was a freshman, I probably would have pressed," Mashburn said. "I think that's maturity." 
Kentucky coach Rick Pitino was pleased with the ball movement that penetrated 
Mississippi for numerous layups. 
"We got out on the break 37 times tonight, which is good," he said. "And the first half we were excellent on the backboards." 
Michigan 89, Mich_ St 79 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -A crowd of 15,138 filled Breslin Center to see Michigan's fabulous five freshmen. Yet it was a seldom-used junior, playing the game of his life, who stole the show. 
Rob Pelinka scored six of his career-high nine points in overtime Wednesday night as No. 15 Michigan, down 14 points in the second half, beat No. 13 Michigan State 89-79. 
"It's scary," Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote said. "If we can't win a game against Michigan when we have a 14­point lead, I don't know what to do. 
"That might not be just a good team. It might be on the threshold of being a great team." 
It was the third Big Ten road win of the season for the young Wolverines (12-4 overall, 4-3 Big Ten), and Michigan's first victory in three years at East Lansing. 
Michigan State (13-3, 3-3) had won the last three games between the ancient rivals. 
The score was tied 71-71 at the end of regulation. The Wolverines scored 11 of their 18 overtime points on free throws. 
The Spartans, hitting five of nine from 3-point range and shooting 62 percent, led by as many as 14 points and had a 42-30 lead at halftime. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Late 
Night Olympics playing schedules will be posted outside the RecSports office Thursday at 1 p.m. LNO reps may pick up a copy of the schedule after 1 p.m. Thursday at RecSports. 

•Attention 
all rowers. Novice practice will begin this Friday at 4:30 at the J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. 

•Hapkido/Tae 
Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean at 283-3457. 

•The 
opening ceremonies for the AFROTC Basketball tournament will take place on Saturday, February 1 at 7:30 a.m. in the J.A.C.C. The tournament which will include teams from throughout the Midwest, will conclude with the championship game at 12 p.m. on Sunday, February 2. 

•The 
Tae Kwon Do Club will be having practice during the following times for the spring semester: Monday and Wednesday 7:30-9 p.m. and Thursday 8:30-10 p.m. in the fencing gym of the 


J.A.C.C. Any questions, call Usa at 283-4852. 
•A 
Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is being offered by RecSports today at 4 p.m. Register in advance at RecSports. 

•Notre 
Dame Rugby: There will be a meeting on Tuesday, February 4, at 8 p.m. at Loftus for anyone interested in joining. For all past members, practices are every Tuesday and Thursday at 9 p.m. at Loftus. Don't forget your SACS. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament is looking for a new head and some assistant commissioners. Anyone interested should pick up an application at the student government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by Friday, February 7 and interviews will be held on February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234­5193. 

•The 
Notre Dame Judo Club will be holding practices beginning this Sunday from 4 to 6 p.m. and on Wednesday's from 8 to 10 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Anyone interested is welcome to drop by and watch or participate. Anyone with questions may may call 283-2915 after 3 p.m. 


-
•The Fellowships of Christian Athletes meets tonight at 7 
p.m. in the basement of Farley. Newcomers are welcome. 

CELEBRATE THE END OF THE WEEK AT... 



------~~~--·---~---~---~---~-~--~--~~---------------~-----~~­
Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer 
Knicks extend Bullets' streak 
Heat defeat Sanies for first time; Augmon leads Hawks 
NEW YORK (AP) -Gerald Wilkins had 22 points and seldom-used Kiki Vandeweghe scored nine of his 14 in the fourth quarter as New York handed Washington its seventh consecutive loss. 
Tom Hammonds scored 31 points, seven more than his previous career high, for the Bullets, who never led after the second minute of the game. 
Charles Oakley had 13 points and a season-high 18 rebounds and Patrick Ewing had 17 points and 12 rebounds for the Knicks, who won their fourth straight game. 
Hawks110,Bucks100 
MILWAUKEE Stacey Augmon scored a career-high 25 points and the Atlanta Hawks, playing for the first time since losing Dominique Wilkins for the season, beat slumping Milwaukee. 
Kevin Willis added 18 and Blair Rasmussen and Duane Ferrell 17 each for the Hawks. Wilkins ruptured an Achilles' tendon against Philadelphia on Tuesday and was scheduled to undergo surgery Thursday. 
Moses Malone moved past John Havlicek into fifth place on the NBA career scoring list and led the Bucks with 28 points. The loss was Milwaukee's fifth straight. 
:'~~®t~~~~·\ 
•. 

Why settle for apa!tY
when you can have aball. 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 
~ 
g\~~, St.69 
I ---------------------­
$1.00 OFF I $1.99 SPECIAL 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong I Buy one regular footlong and large1 sandwich. Limit five footlong I Coca-Cola at regular price, get a sandwiches per order. I second regular footlong of equal orI lesser value or only $1.99. No« valid w~h any olher discount • Ofter good at II all participating locations. • Expires 2128192 Dolble meats not included.I No« valid woh any other disoount • Offer good atI all participating locations. • Expires 2128/92
i ~•FIW•D i @:l'FtlJA'S 
~----------------------~ 
Pacers 115, 76ers 90 

PHILADELPHIA -Reggie Miller's 24 points sent Indiana past Philadelphia, snapping the Pacers' four-game losing streak. 
The Pacers ran off to a 13-2 lead in winning for only the fourth time in 22 road games this season. Indiana had lost 20 of the last 22 at Philadelphia. Charles Barkley had 28 points for the 76ers. 
Heat 119, Sonics 114 
MIAMI -Glen Rice scored five of his 30 points in the final 1:22, leading Miami Heat to its first-ever victory over Seattle. 
Miami had lost its first nine games against the Sonics. The victory also was the Heat's first against a Pacific Division team other than Sacramento or the Los Angeles Clippers; the Heat was 0-47 overall against Seattle, Golden State, Phoenix, Portland and the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Cavaliers 95, Pistons 90 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ­Craig Ehlo's short jumper with 
9.9 seconds left broke a tie and sent Cleveland past Detroit. 
Ehlo took a pass from Mark Price and scored for a 92-90 lead. On Detroit's next possession, Isiah Thomas was called for charging, and was ejected after arguing the call. Price hit late three free throws to clinch the game. 
John Williams led Cleveland with 22 points. Orlando Woolridge had 26 points for Detroit and Thomas added 24. 
Spurs 108, Mavericks 93 
DALLAS -Willie Anderson and the San Antonio Spurs shot down Dallas in the third quarter and went on to send the Mavericks to their 14th loss in 15 games. 
The Spurs, leading 49-42 at halftime, outscored Dallas 37­16 in the third quarter. Anderson scored 13 points on 5 of 5 shooting as San Antonio made 16 of 22 attempts. The Mavericks, meanwhile, made just 7 of 23. Anderson finished with 21 points. 
Suns 128, Nets 95 
PHOENIX-Tom Chambers hit all of his six shots in the first quarter, leading Phoenix to a team-record 14 consecutive field goals as the Suns blitzed New Jersey. 
Chambers finished with 31 points in the Suns' 16th straight win at home, where they started the season 1-3. Only the Chicago Bulls and Utah Jazz have better home records this season. 
Jazz 124, Kings 105 
SALT LAKE CITY -Karl Malone and Jeff Malone each scored 26 points and Utah outscored Sacramento 46-27 in the second quarter en route to a victory. 
John Stockton had 18 points and 16 assists for the Jazz, who handed the Kings their fourth straight road loss and improved their home record to 18-2. 
Lionel Simmons scored 25 points and Dennis Hopson 23 for Sacramento. 
I 
I
1
I I 
i I 

Survey on Sexual Harassment 
Thursday, Jan. 30th 12 noon 
C.S.C. 

Questions, answers, follow-up,ideas, discussion. 
Repeated -Feb. lOth 7:00 pm Library Lounge Sponsored by Faculty/Student Committee on Women 
page 19 

American League teams strengthen rosters early 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Detroit Tigers, New York Yankees and Minnesota Twins attempted to fill some pitching holes on Wednesday and the Boston Red Sox tried to im­prove their defense. 
Detroit signed right-hander Eric King to a $1.2 million contract, the Yankees signed left-bander Allan Anderson and the Twins signed left­bander Bill Krueger. The latter two got minor league deals. 
Outfielder Herro Winningham, meanwhile, agreed to a $450,000, one­year contract with the Red Sox. 
The Chicago White Sox in­vited outfielder Brad Komminsk, pitcher Mike Dunne and catcher Nelson Santovenia to spring training. 
Two players in salary arbi­tration agreed to one-year contracts, leaving 100 remaining. Infielder Junior Noboa and the New York Mets settled at $272,000, a raise of $132,000, while right-hander Luis Aquino and the Kansas City Royals agreed at $650,000, a raise of $490,000. 
King, 27, pitched for the Tigers from 1986 through 1988 and was Detroit's top rookie in 1986 with an 11-4 record. He was 6-11 last season for Cleveland with a 
4.60 ERA in 24 starts. He became a free agent Dec. 20 when the Indians declined to offer a 1992 contract. He made $1,487,500 in 1991. 
This confidence translates intoSeniors making key plays at crucial 
times, and more importantly, continued from page 24 wins. 
"I think we are getting more 
composure by playing more confident as they grow more games together," explained accustomed to first year coach Daimon Sweet. "Everybody is John MacLeod and each other. contributing to the success." 

on 

Anderson, 28, slumped badly during the last two seasons. He was 16-9 in 1988 with an American League-leading 2.45 ERA, then went 17-10 with a 
3.80 ERA in 1989. But he fell to 7-18 in 1990 and was sent to the minor leagues in the middle of the 1991 season. He was 5-11 with a 4.96 ERA for the Twins last year and 4-1 with a 3.06 ERA in five starts with Portland of the Class AAA Pacific Coast League. 
Anderson, who made $785,000 last season, would get a $500,000 major league contract if he makes the Yankees and the chance to earn another $300,000 in performance bonuses. 
Krueger, 33, was 0-2 with a 
13.50 ERA against the Twins last season for Seattle. Against the rest of the league, he was 11-6 with a 3.00 ERA. The combined 11-8, 3.60 mark represented his best season. 
He would get a $550,000 major league contract if he makes the Twins. He made $500,000 last season. 
Winningham, 30, hit .225 last season with one homer and four RBis in 98 games for Cincinnati and made $437,500. He was 13-for-33 as a pinch hitter, a .394 average that was second-best in the National League. Boston, which also had considered signing Mookie Wilson, designated pitcher Derek Livernois for assignment to make room. 
The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1992
page 20 


Green happy to be an All-Pro after two years of benchwarming in L.A. 
HONOLULU (AP) -Gaston Green, a bench-warmer for three years with the Los Angeles Rams and now a 1,000-yard rusher and All-Pro for the Denver Broncos, says he feels he's made his point. 
"I always thought I could play like that," Green said. "It feels good to show the Rams and their organization back in LA and coach (John) Robinson that I've been able to do it. 
"I feel redeemed." 

Although the Rams made Green their first-round draft pick out of UCLA in 1988, he 
Demons 
continued from page 24 

Demon guard Howard Nathan responded with a trey with 
1:37 left. Taylor then hit a shot in the lane to put the Irish back on top by four. 
Following a DePaul turnover, LaPhonso Ellis thrilled the crowd with a thunderous dunk ofT a Bennett miss. Then, Price made a mental mistake which sealed his team's fate; he stepped on the baseline before inbounding the ball. Bennett then iced the win with two free throws which put the Irish up 69-61 with 50 seconds left. 
"We took a lot of bad shots and didn't execute our offense well," Booth said. "We played careless, and you can't do that on the road. It might have been started just three games during his three years with Los Angeles and carried the ball a total of just 129 times, for 451 yards. 
"I thought I was never going to get a chance to play," said Green, who is UCLA's all-time leading rusher. 
When trade possibilities came up, Green said he still worried that he might never have an opportunity to show what he could do. 
Green got a break with the Broncos when Bobby Humphrey held out. 
different if this game had been at home." 
Despite their cold start, the Irish went into the locker room tied with the Blue Demons at 
29. They recovered to hit 12 of their last 21 shots of the half to erase a 25-17 deficit with a 12­2 run. This was keyed by Bennett who hit back-to-hack threes to put Notre Dame up 29-27 with 18 seconds left. 
"I like the way we kept our composure and didn't crack early," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "DePaul is an impressive team; they are very quick, which makes them a dif­ficult team to play. 
"This was a big win for us. I am pleased with the progress we have made, but we have to continue to improve, which I think we will do. We have a long way to go before we top 

Belles rung by Northeastern Illinois 
Golden Eagles 'run, gun and have fun' in 97-71 triumph 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 

The Golden Eagles of Division I Northeastern Illinois (7-12) flew into town last night, slaughtering the Saint Mary's basketball team 97-71. 
Although the Belles (4-8) slo­gan may be "run, gun and have fun", it was the Golden Eagles who were doing the running and gunning. NIU outran and outshot the Belles early, leading by 24 points at halftime. 
NIU opened the first half scoring the first basket. The Belles tied it up quickly, but soon fell behind. Led by three players in double digits, the Golden Eagles executed a 13-2 run. The Belles deficit worsened through the half, trailing by 24 at the half, 27-51. 

"We couldn't hit," Belles coach Don Cromer explained. "I think we only hit 19 percent of our shots." 
"There's a notable difference between a division one school and division three school. They are faster," said senior guard Kelly Cook. 
The Belles regrouped in the second half, outscoring their visitors 39-29 from the field. But it wasn't enough to stop the Golden Eagles from claiming victory over the Belles. 
"This team is achieving all of its goals we set at the beginning of the year," said Golden Eagles coach Mike Fogel. "One was we'd get a win on the road. This is the first win on the road." 
Junior center Julie Snyder led the Belles' effort with 14 points and eight rebounds. Senior forward Janet Libbing was held to 11 points and six rebounds while senior forward Catherine Restovich could score only 10 points and grab six rebounds. 
Leading the Golden Eagles flight to victory was junior cen­ter Pam Osterbrink with 31 points and 11 rebounds. Osterbrink led her team in scoring last season with 354 total, and currently leads the team with 279. 
Forward Debbie Pozdol, the team's second leading scorer and rebounder, tallied 26 points. Sophomore forward Cyndie Donner totaled 23 total points. 
Overall, the Belles shot only 38 percent, to NIU's 79 percent from the field. 

Late Night Olympics 
Friday January 31, 8 pm -4 am Please support Special Olympics 

We're looking for seniors who like 
working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accounting, actuarial, and auditing at State Fann. 
At State Farm, we understand the concept of "work:' Believe it or not, we also understand the concept of "plaY:' 
Thats because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the first without having an appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Farm in Bloomington could be the ideal place for you. 
You'll work for one of the country's mo.'>t respected companies on the mo.'it advanced computer equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. You'll be rewarded with excellent pay and benefll'>. You'll make your classmates very envious. 
'Whats more, you'll also have time to appreciate the fmer things in life. Thats because Bloom­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, it's a great place to live, to enjoy, to start a family (if, indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the community$ pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting park'>, and other recreational facilities, you'll fmd two universities that offer a host of cultural and social activities to take advantage of S 
Ifyou're a senior with a math, accounting, data proces.'>ing, sAT tate Fann 
Au •uM 

or computer science background, come talk to us at your Insurance college placement office. We're looking for people who are motivated and outgoing. People who enjoy challenges on the '"suuNc~ Companies 
job -and away from it. After all, you're not just looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. An equal opportunity employer. 

Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer page 21 
Jury chosen in Tyson rape trial as tickets go on sale 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A collar workers. mostly white, mostly male jury Race had become a source of was seated Wednesday for the dispute in the trial, with the de­trial of former heavyweight fense complaining that the jury champ Mike Tyson on charges pool did not represent the racial of raping a black beauty make-up of Marion County, pageant contestant. which is 21 percent black. 
Marion Superior Court Judge 
Three alternate jurors also Patricia J. Gifford considered a were chosen after attorneys and defense motion Wednesday to the judge agreed that would be suppress a videotape of a Tyson enough, rather than four. Court news conference in September. was then closed for the day The tape, made by local WISH­while attorneys argued motions TV but not yet broadcast, before the judge in chambers. allegedly caught Tyson making 

Opening statements in the disparaging remarks about his Mike Tyson trial were expected Thursday. accuser. 
shorts with a ripped waistlineTyson, 25, is charged with The prosecution later agreed 
-was tampered with by the 
rape, criminal deviate conduct not to use the tape, said Dan woman and her father.
and confinement. If convicted, Byron, the station's attorney. 
Gifford granted a defensehe could be sentenced to 63 Byron said prosecutors offered motion and blocked author Joseyears in prison. no reason for the decision, but Torres, who wrote the Tyson
The last of the 12 primary WISH newsman Neal Moore 
biography "Fire & Fear," fromjurors selected Wednesday was said the sound quality was poor. 
testifying.
a 4 7 -year-old man who works The judge denied a defense Gifford also denied a defenseat a medical equipment motion to prevent the jury from motion to tell the jury about the company. seeing the clothing Tyson's ac­
accuser's sexual history.
The jurors range from ages cuser was wearing the night of Indiana's rape shield law pre­21 to 55, with most in their 30s. the alleged assault. Defense at­
vents such evidence in most
Four are women, three are torneys argued that her outfit ­cases.
black. Most are married blue-a sequined bra, blouse and 
Irish host Prince Collegiates 
Notre Dame takes on Colorado this afternoon at Eck 
freshman reached the round of also contenders. 16 last year at the National 18 "They made a marked
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
& under tournament, a better improvement and worked finish than any Irish player hard," said Bayliss. "We haveRanked tenth in the nation, except DiLucia. three number twos, and Markthe members of Notre Dame's Also strong for the Buffaloes Schmidt is not far behind. 
men's tennis team will look to 
is Marc LeClerc, who has "Last season, we didn't win
be crowned kings of the Prince 
defeated Notre Dame's Will consistently at number two.
Collegiate Classic this weekend. 
Forsyth in the past. This season, we need to do
Notre Dame will host the 
Forsyth is one of three Irish that."
inaugural Prince Collegiate, 
juniors battling for the number Notre Dame will face
named after the tennis 
two singles spot. Chuck Colorado at 3:15 p.m. today atequipment manufacturer which Coleman and Andy Zurcher are the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
When Tyson left the court­house for the day, he reached into the crowd outside to shake hands. "We love you in the ghetto," one man said as he grasped Tyson's hand. 
The black boxer came to court Wednesday with his arm around Camille Ewald, a woman he considers his surro­gate mother. Tyson's real mother died when he was a child. 
Tyson lived in Ewald's home at Catskill, N.Y., after he was released from reform school at age 13 and came under the wing of the late boxing teacher Cus D'Amato. 
Tyson's accuser, an 18-year­old Miss Black America contes­tant, told police she met Tyson at a pageant rehearsal on July 
18. She said she went with him to his hotel room, and early the next morning he restrained her on the bed and raped her. 
The boxer, who has been ac­cused often of fondling women, insists his accuser consented to sex. 
"The woman knows what happened. I know what hap­pened. I'm innocent," he has said. 
Seventeen courtroom passes for the public were doled out for the first time Wednesday and Tyson's allure was readily apparent. 
V. John Toms, a bail bonds­man, waved a $100 bill and snagged Greg O'Dell, 18, who gladly swapped his pass for the cash. 
"I like to find out what goes on behind closed doors," Toms said. 
O'Dell bought another ticket for $50, and sold it to a local radio reporter for $100. 
Margaret Edwards, who had come to court early to win a pass, said hers wasn't for sale at any price. 
"I love Mike Tyson. I believe in him. I've got a son his age," said Edwards, who plans to at­tend the entire trial. "I know how it is. Boys will be boys." 
Magic feels great; plans to play in Orlando and Spain 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Magic Johnson, who plans to compete in the NBA All-Star game and the Olympics, says he feels great and reiterated Wednesday night he hasn't given up the idea of returning to the Los Angeles Lakers. 
"I haven't ruled out coming back at all," Johnson said during an impromptu news conference before the 
and is a member of a presidential commission on AIDS. 
At the time of his retirement, Johnson said he didn't want to risk the rigors of an NBA schedule. But since then he has run almost everyday and practiced basketball. 
"The way I'm going now, the way I feel, the way I've been playing and practicing,

Lakers' game against Golden I feel great," Johnson said. State. "The only thing that "When I was first going would keep me from playing through it, my doctors and is myself. I'm alright to play myself all were waiting to see right now, if I want to play. If how I was going to respond, I want to come back, I could both physically and come back. mentally," he said. "The 
"But it's on me. It's not up mental part was easy, to my doctors, because because it's just another everything is great. My challenge to me and I love doctors can advise me, but challenges. they're not in my body." "It's something I had to get 
In an announcement that used to. I just couldn't keep shocked the world, Johnson playing basketball. First of retired last November after all, you have to see how the he learned he had the AIDS drugs are doing and see virus. what you can do in terms of 
Since then, Johnson has seeing if you can still stay become a major voice for healthy by working out and those with the deadly disease running four miles a day." 




page 22 The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1992 

Louder ready to reach full form 
Sophomore goalie returns from broken arm to lead Irish 
By JIM VOGL 
Sports Writer 

For most hockey players, ten minutes in the penalty box is a long time. But for Irish sophomore goalie Greg Louder, ten weeks was way too long. 
Louder, Notre Dame's MVP last year as a freshman, broke his hand on October 9 and did not return until just before Christmas break after missing the team's first 13 games. 
"At first. I thought I'd miss four weeks and maybe I could play with it broken," he said. 
But then after the doctor gave him two doses of disappointing news, he was finally told to have surgery. 
"It wasn't healing as fast as they thought it would," Louder said. "It broke all the way through the bone." 
Despite his prolonged absence, Louder quickly regained his starting job and played well against Princeton. He commended junior Carl Picconato and sophomore Brent Lothrop, who tended the net in his absence. 
"They both did really well," Louder said. "It made things a lot easier knowing that everyone was playing well." 
However, Louder admits that he is not yet 100 percent. 
''I'm still really not in top form. All the other guys have been playing and are in mid­season form. Hopefully, I can put the first half of the season behind me and just get back to playing my game." 
Louder was glad to be recovered in time for the team's trip to Switzerland over Christmas. There they played two professional B teams and three city teams. 
Louder. who described the foreign players as smaller, less physical but faster and better skaters, liked the opportunity. 



Happy 21st Birthday! Margaret Mary Malone 

,'ffl 
4 ·~ 

Love, 
oooooooxxxxxxx 
Mom&Dad 

•
Greg Louder 
"I've never been on the ice before with a professional team," he said 
The 6-foot-1, 195 pound goalie came to Notre Dame with excellent credentials. He was honored as Massachusetts goalie of the Year after allowing just two goals a year over his junior and senior years. A fifth round selection of the Edmonton Oilers in the 1990 NHL Draft, Louder was the second American goalie chosen. 
"I don't think it was a consideration that I'd go right out of high school," he explained. "Unless you go in the first or second round, there's not really much pressure for you to go." 
Although some people might argue that goalie is the most important part of the team, Louder also explained that it is nonetheless a tough position for a young player in the draft. 
"I think the only goalie that ever went in the first round straight out of high school would have been Tom Barrasso, who's from my hometown," he said. 
"[Edmonton] encouraged me to go to Notre Dame, saying it was an up and coming program and that we'll certainly see a lot of good competition." 
They were aware that starting next season, the Irish 

IF You DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
ffiONKrN 
EDUCA:IDNAL GRDU1 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273·1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
will enter the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, which features such hockey powerhouses as Michigan, Michigan State, and Western Michigan. 
Louder and the Irish are excited about the challenge the CCHA offers. "It will give our team a chance to play against top teams every night," he said with the two close losses to fourth ranked Michigan still fresh in his memory. 
"When we went to Michigan, you could see the team was up," he said. "With 8,500 fans screaming 'We hate ND,' our intensity is so much higher. Playing against a team that strong, the game is much faster and more hard fought." 
Louder should benefit from increased competition in skill, intensity and confidence. But despite all his early accolades, Louder doesn't seem to suffer from cockiness. 
"I never really thought of myself as being overconfident in anything," Louder said. "It's just not my personality to be that way." 
This humility is evident in light of his future. 
"It's so hard to make it that you never expect to," Louder said. ''I'm not at a point where I'm saying, 'Well, after I graduate from here I'm going to play pro hockey,' because it's not that easy." 
"I'll have a lot more options when I graduate from here than some hockey factory, but I definitely want to give [professional hockey] a shot, whether it's here or somewhere in Europe." 
D . :(f? TRY OUR :::~ · 
. 41 :; 
0 

PAN PIZZA.! 
0 

.~ It' D 1· .
,_"~ ..-:,_.. S e ICIOUS•.....;·. ~ ·~ 
•Smothered with HALF POTffilD of Cheese. 
•Thick, Buttery & Golden Crisp Crust. 
:~·· •Loaded With Fresh Toppings Of Your Choice. 
.:. 

o •271-0300 Notre Dame "cP •289-0033 St. Mary's 
r-----~--------r-------------~ 
I PAN-TASTIC! I PARTY ) 
I Medium '2" I PLEASER : 1-Topping ·' ~zza : Party Size 16" I $5.99 I 1-Topping Pizza 
: Choice of Crust: Pan or Original : 
$7.99 
I S!udent ID & Coupon Required. Please Mention I Student ID & Coupon Required. Please 
! Coupon When Orderi.JJg. 1 Mention Coupon When Ordering. 
Offer expire& June 21,1992 Valid at partici-Offer expire& June 21,1992 Valid atpartici-J paring stores oW.y. Not villid with any other offer. J pating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Limited delivery area. to enswe safe c:hiving. Limited delivery area to en&we safe drivWg. 
I ~u:~:::cp:~::C-!:t!dr:Cei::JTetc~~-Our I ~us:r::ep:~~;::~f!:i.:'letcV:~~-Our ~--------------~-------------­
.--------------.-------------­
1 STUDENT 1 DOUBLE DOOZIE : SPECIAL : VAL~~NU $9.99 
1

I Large 14" 1-Topping 2 Medium pizzas with 9 toppings.
I Pizza 1
Toppings arc Green Pepper, Onion, Mushroom, I $6.99 I Pepperoni, Sausage, Beef, Ham, Bacon & Olives. I I Original Crust Only. Pan Pizza $!.00 Crust More. 1 Student ID & Coupon .P.eouired. Please 1Na substitutions or deletions. Student TD & Coupon
I Mention Coupon Wh· 1 Ordering. I required. Please mention coupon when ordering. 
Offerexpire&Jtm... ~. 1992 Valid alputici· Offcrc.<pircs February 23, 1992. Valid at paniciI paling narcs only • ilvalid with any other offer. paling 5 t~s only. Not vaJid with any other offer. Limited delivery area to ens~ safe driving. Limited delivery area to cn&un: ufe driving.I Customer pays salc.s: tu where applicable. Our I Customer pays sale& 1&1t where 1pplicable. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. drivers are not penalized for l•te deliveries. 
~--------------~--------------
Nordiques lose on road; Hawks down Oilers 4-3 
(AP) -The Quebec Nordiques can't win on the road. The Chicago Blackhawks can't lose -at least lately. 
"We're playing a little better on the road; discipline has been a key,'' said Blackhawk captain Chris Chelios after a 4­3 victory at Edmonton Wednesday night. 
It was the Blackhawks' third straight road victory on their current seven-game swing. Before the trip, the Blackhawks had an unimpressive 4-12-6 record on the road. 
The Nordiques, meanwhile, appuently aren't working hard enough on the road. They're 0-19-4 this season, following Wednesday night's 5­2 loss at Toronto. 
Elsewhere, it was Detroit 4, Buffalo 4; and New Jersey 4, Montreal3. 
Blackhawks 4, Oilers 3 Jeremy Roenick scored his 38th goal of the season early in the third period to lift Chicago over Edmonton. 
Chelios set up the goal at 
4:46 and assisted on goals by Steve Smith and Brent Sutter to lead the Blackhawks to their sixth consecutive victory. 
The goal by Roenick capped a Chicago comeback from a 3­1 deficit, with Sutter and Frank Kucera scoring two minutes apart to tie it. 
Mark Lamb, Joe Murphy and Scott Mellanby had goals for the Oilers, who lost goaltender 
1 
Bill Hanford early in the second period with a groin strain. Norm Foster came on to take the loss. 
Maple Leafs 5, Nordiques 2 
Dave Ellett and Glenn Anderson each scored twice as the Maple Leafs defeated the Nordiques. The Nordiques have not won on the road since last March. 
It was the third straight win for the Maple Leafs, who were 5-5-0 in January, their first .500 month of the season. 
Red Wings 4, Sabres 4 
Steve Yzerman had a hat trick and Paul Ysebaert scored with 29 seconds left in regula­tion to give the Red Wings a tie with the Sabres. 
With the Red Wings skating with an extra attacker after pulling their goaltender, Ysebaert forced overtime with his 26th goal of the season. 
Devils 4, Canadiens 3 
Randy McKay's second goal of the game 9:01 into the third period lifted the Devils over the Canadiens. 
The controversial goal drew boos from the crowd of 16,707 at the Montreal Forum after McKay swept around the net and stuffed the puck past Patrick Roy with Devils for­ward Doug Brown lying in the crease. Referee Bill McCreary ruled that Brown had been pushed into the crease. 


Thursday, January 30, 1992 The Observer page 23 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARYLARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

Tomorrow, they would be mortal enemies. But on the eve of the great hunt, feelings were put aside for the traditional Mammoth Dance. 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

DOWN 

1 Encourages (2 wds.) Thursday2 Remuneration 3 -hat 
4 Cordoba cheers 12:15 p.m. Discussion, "The Raging Debate about Dioxin: 5 Madagascar monkey Scientific and Social Aspects," Prof. Kimberly Gray. Friday Forum 6 Bridge distances at the Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the CSC. 
7 City on the 
Arno 8 Stammering sounds 9 Foliage 
10 Scarlet ­
LECTURES 
12 Anklebone 13 Like Goya 14 Loosely woven 
cotton 15 City in upstate Friday New York 16 Ballerina's assets 
12:15 p.m. Friday Forum for Faculty and Staff,
21 Toothed 
"Sesquicentennial Year: Notre Dame and the Social and Ethical
23 Protective wall 
25 Prophets Issues of and Interdependent and Technological World." Center 27 Telegrams for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns. 
29 Electric ­31 Part of rlPH 33 Pours 35 -seek 36 Spaces between veins 
MENU
37 Tropical bird 39 Artist's workshop 40 "The -of San 
Franc is co" Notre Dame 41 Iceman's need 42 Force
<0 Edward Julius Collegiate CW8815 
44 Texas river 
Top Round of Beef 
ACROSS 47 Allude 
48 Car-window item Baked Sole w!Rice Dressing 
1 Sewing machine 24 Regions 
part 26 Bio--47 Emulated Andretti 51 Speck of dust Manicotti 
49 Sea bird 52 Guy Masterson's6 Wheat variety 27 Income statement 50 Prefix for classic game11 Sma 11 bed item 51 Threatened 55 Suffix for depend13 Ornamental shrub 28 Menu item 53 Triangle's side 56 Most common written
14 Author of "The 30 Jlrnbitious one Saint Mary's 
32 Donna or Rex 54 "A-" (Dickens wordNecklace" (2 wds.) 
novel)17 Record player part 34 Zeus's wife 

57 Edict city58 Powder bag Pizza Deluxe 
18 -roll 35 Netherlands city 
19 -Schwarz, 38 Meal 
59 Hinder Cheese Pizza 
famous toy store 42 Dust and mud 
60 Evil glances Deli Bar 
20 Exploits 43 Baseball hall-of­
22 Greek site farner, -Anson Ravioli Cheese 23 Boy servant 45 Fight Oven Broiled Chicken 46 -fixe 
·-----------­
I I I I

A\t the ~\ovie§ with 'S.IU.II3. 
Pacific Heights 
MARCH 6-15 
Thursday, January 30
7 NIGHTS AT THE RAMADA INN 
FOR $239 !! 
8 PM & 10:30 PM 
BUS TRANSPORTATION INCLUDED 
SIGN-UPS DATES: January 27-February 7,1992 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) Deceived ~ Friday, January 31 
Contact the Secretary nthe Student Government OffiCe, 
Saturday, February 1..........~-+-~
2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center 
a 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
CALL 239-7668 
Shown in Cushing Auditorium sTuDENT uNioN BOARD 

Sports 
page 24 Thursday, January 30, 1992 
Swim teams sweep UI-Chicago in midst of tragedy 

Irish women douse Flames Men overcome UIC with spirit
with only eleven members 
By JASON KELLY 

Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh. Sports Writer
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
"And a lot of love and prayerSports Writer and support." After dedicating the rest of 
The meet was full of love and their season to the memory of 
There are some things in life Meghan Beeler and Colleen
support as members of the

that bring a smile to your face Hipp, the Notre Dame men's
Administration, the Athleticand give you a warm, fuzzy Department, and other varsity swim team returned to action 
feeling inside. One of those is last night against Illinois­
teams, parents, and students all 

watching someone who is Chicago.
came to see the women resume

presented with a great adver­In one of the most spirited
their season. Flowers marking

sity come out on top. the end of each lane and cards meets of the season, the men Last night at Rolfs Aquatic and messages filling three giant overcame a tough charge from Center, the Notre Dame boards reminded the Irish and the Flames and pulled out a 
women's swim team overcame 133-108 victory. 
the fans of the higher purpose

all the adversities that have the season has assumed. "This is as much spirit as I've been presented to them in the seen since the National
"Our intentions were with

last six days and defeated the Catholic meet," freshman Matt
Colleen (Hipp) and Meghan

Flames of the University of (Beeler) the whole time," said Gibbons said. "It's uplifting to Illinois-Chicago, 124-87. With say the least." 
senior co-captain Shanaonly ten swimmers and one 

Stephens. "We were inspired ten," said Stephens. was quickly replaced with that The Irish never trailed, but diver, the Irish rebounded from from the accident and the mir­The start of the meet was warm, fuzzy feeling as the med­the had to fight off a rallythe loss of two of their team­acles we have seen this week." filled with anticipation as peo­ley relay team of junior Kristen midway through the meet to 
mates and found an inner 
The meet itself was a miracle ple wondered whether the team Broderick, freshman Amy retain the lead. Illinois­strength en route to the victory. 
according to Stephens. could realistically compete with Bethem, sSenior Shana Chicago won four consecutive "We have a lot of inner "We won with ten girls and such a limited number of
strength on our team," said see COMEBACK/page 17 see SPIRIT/page 17 
we didn't get to pick which swimmers. The anticipation 

Irish Exorcise Blue Demons 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 56-48, Billy Taylor was fouled Sports Writer but missed the front end of a one-and-one. 
The Notre Dame men's This triggered a 7-2 DePaul basketball team overcame an run. Terry Davis hit two foul anemic first-half shooting per­shots, and Blue Demon center formance to defeat DePaul, 7 4-Stephen Howard, who had 22 69, at the Joyce ACC last night. points and 11 rebounds, stole 
The Irish missed 15 of their the ball from Bennett and was first 16 shots, but were able to fouled. He hit both shots, and turn things around in the sec­after Sweet did the same for the ond half, in which they shot 60 Irish, Howard then slammed percent from the field. home a Davis miss and was 
"When we were cold early, I fouled. He converted the three­felt that I had to get us going," point play to trim the lead to said Elmer Bennett, who fin­58-55 with 3:23 left. ished with a career-high 32 DePaul was tough on the points. "They (DePaul) had two glass. as the Blue Demons quick guards in (Joe) Daughrity outrebounded the Irish 40-31, and (Terry) Davis, and they and they had 20 offensive were all over me all game." boards. 
The Irish came out strong in "Overall, they are a tough, the second half, hitting their strong rebounding team," Jon first two shots. Bennett fed Ross said. "They have a lot of Keith Tower, who put in a guys who can get underneath layup, and then, following a and rebound." Daughrity miss, Daimon Sweet In addition to Howard's im­nailed a three from the top of pressive totals. David Booth had the key at 18:27 to give the 12 boards, and Curtis Price Irish a 34-31 lead, which they grabbed eight. would never relinquish. Notre Dame was able to open 
Notre Dame gradually ex­the lead to 63-58 with a 15-foot 
, 
panded its lead until the five­jumper from Bennett, but Blue minute mark. With the Irish up see DEMONS/page 20 
Seniors lead Irish to victory as Bennett throws down 32 

showed their composure, Bennett, Daimon Sweet and The experiences from this
By ANTHONY KING 

however, and made the key LaPhonso Ellis sunk the critical season have also been building Associate Sports Editor plays down the stretch. shots and free throws to seal blocks in Notre Dame's success With three minutes left in the the victory. story.
There's no substitute for 
game, point guard Elmer "From a senior's perspective, "We wouldn't have won this 
experience, especially in 
Bennett skyed for a rebound, I really don't get rattled game in December, just because pressure situations. and pushed the ball up court. because I've been in similar we were a bit out of control,"
When it came down to crunch 
Bennett was fouled by Howard situations so many times," said commented Tower. "We didn't 
time against a talented DePaul 
Nathan, and calmly sunk both Ellis. really have the poise necessary
team. the Irish seniors took 
free throws. The only rattling Ellis made to win this type ball game.
control of the game. 

The Devils came right back, was the rattling of the rim on a Earlier this month we won a 
The Blue Devils had nibbled 
as Nathan scored and was massive one-handed dunk that couple come from behind ball 
down an eight-point Notre 
fouled, again cutting the margin came off a rebound to seal the games, and that takes a Jot of 
Dame lead to close within three, 
to three. Bennett, who scored a victory. guts. It takes an awful lot of 
as Stephen Howard hit a 
game high 32 points, wanted "It's (senior experience) vital," guts to hold a very small lead 
turnaround jumper and was 
the ball, and again delivered in explained center Keith Tower. like we did tonight, a lot of guts 
fouled for a three-point play. It 
the clutch. "Elmer did an unbelievable job and a lot of composure, and the 
looked as if DePaul was making 
DePaul turned the pressure down the stretch. It's (the guys did a great job."
its run, and the Irish appeared 
up another notch, as Nathan strectch) the time for the men The players now are more 
to be letting it slip away. 

drilled a three-pointer to bring to play the ball game. That's the 
The Notre Dame seniors see SENIORS/page 19 
the Devils within two, with only time for the old guys." 









