
/.....' 
',·
J.-j/1-. 
, / I 'f v, J-.5' # if' .. 

server
} 

VOL. XXV. NO. 49 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
In deep thought 
Second grader Cierra Williams is a student a Benjamin Harrison Elementary School in South Bend. Har­rison Elementary School is one school in the district where Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are doing their student teaching this fall. 

Irish had the most success in the West 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Conventional wisdom on the Irish in the American West is incomplete, according to Uni­versity of Montana professor David Emmons. 
Author of several books on the subject, including "The Butte Irish: Class and Ethnicity in a Mining Town," Emmons explained Thursday that the first influx of Irish immigrants into the United States was a re­sult of the famine in Ireland in the 1840s and 1850s. 
"The nation allowed them in with some reluctance," he said. "However, the West needed workers and the Irish answered the 'help wanted' signs." 
The farther west the Irish immigrants traveled, the more they improved their social, po­litical, and economic situation, he said. This first generation was successful, according to Emmons, because there was not an established society or elite which resented their pres­ence in the West. 
"There is considerable evi­dence that the early arriving Irish did better in the West than in the East. The Irish who got to a place first or second were limited only by their abilities," he said. 
An important aspect of the relative success of these Irish immigrants in the West is re­lated to the emphasis on hospi­tality in their society, according to Emmons. 
"Irish hospitality is not a question of good manners. It is literally and fundamentally a question of being Irish. The early arrivals were able to se­cure jobs and a future for those who came later," he said. 
But industrial changes in the United States and differences in the types of Irish people coming into the nation caused divisions among fellow immigrants near 
see IRISH/ page 6 
Grace Hall 24-hour run starts today 

By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
The Annual Grace Hall 24­hour run will be from noon to­day until noon tomorrow and will benefit the Nortbeast Neighborhood Association of South Bend, according to stu­dent organizer and participant, David Ring. 
"Runners will include any­where from fifty to one hun­dred students including mainly Grace Hall residents, but this year we're going to try and in­clude residents of other halls," said Ring. 
Runners will begin at the Fieldhouse Mall and will run around campus for 15-minute intervals before being replaced by other participants. There will be a tent set up at the Fieldhouse Mall for those 24 hours, and runners will solicit 
see GRACE/ page 6 


Distribution of wealth causes Peru's pain 
By CHRIS HANIFIN 
News Writer 
There is a close connection between the social problems plaguing Peru and the present distribution of wealth in that country, a South American professor said Thursday. 
"Peru is a very interesting country for study. The only problem is that it is my coun­try," said Adolfo Figuerola, of the Catholic University of Peru in Lima. In a troubled Peru, he continued, "rules of production and distribution no longer ex­ist. Rules of property rights no longer apply." 
One problem evident in Peru is the lack of a stable govern­ment, Figuerola said. The pro­fessor's goal is to connect changes in government to eco­nomic changes, he said. 
"We have shifts in democra­cies and dictatorships. We must ask 'Is there any relationship between these quantitative changes and the qualitative [economic] changes?"' 
Peru has been troubled further by the simultaneous decline of investment and of wages in recent years, accord­ing to Figuerola. 
"We have had in Peru forty economic policies in fifteen years. This (decline) is the re­sult of these policy changes. This decline is a real paradox," he said. 
Typically, a decline in real wages will stimulate investment as an attempt is made to 
see PERU/ page 6 

Iraq playing hide-and-seek with missiles; one to two hundred may be stashed 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP) -Sad­dam Hussein is moving scores of Scud missiles around Iraq on camouflaged trucks so U.N. weapons inspectors can't find them and has buried an un­known number of rocket boosters, Western officials and other sources say. 
One intelligence operative de­scribed it as a "real game" of hide-and-seek. 
U.N. weapons inspection teams over the past 18 months have tracked down and dis­mantled much of Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons programs as well as its surface-to-surface missiles with a range of 90 miles or more under terms of the 1991 Gulf War cease-fire agreement. 
But American and U.N. offi­cials suspect that Saddam has stashed away some of the 819 Scud-B missiles he acquired from the former Soviet Union during the 1980-88 war with Iran, or longer-range al-Hus­sein and al-Abbas variants Iraq developed. 
Tim Trevan, spokesman for t~e U.N. Special Commission charged with dismantling Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, said 151 ballistic missiles have been destroyed by the inspectors or the Iraqis, or are awaiting destruction. 
But, since the Iraqis have still not come clean on what they have, U.N. officials believe Sad­dam still has around 100 mis­siles hidden away. The CIA be­lieves the figure is closer to 200. 
In March 1991, Iraq admitted it had 52 ballistic missiles. But under intense diplomatic pres­sure, Baghdad later confessed it had another 92. 
U.N. inspectors believe at least 487 of the Soviet Scuds were fired during the Iran-Iraq War or in tests. 
It's not known how many Scuds were provided by Syria, Libya or North Korea, or how many were cannibalized to produce the al-Hussein and a)­Abbas variants. 
Ninetv-three missiles were fired at ·Israel and Saudi Arabia during last year's Gulf War. 
The Pentagon concedes that no missiles were destroyed in allied air strikes. 
see Iraq/ page 6 

3:00p.m. Campus Tour, Main Gate 4:30p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal, Main Building 6:00p.m. Swimming vs. Bowling Green, 
Rolf's Aquatic Center 7:00p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. 
9:00a.m. Pregame Tailgate Party, Morris Inn Patio 9:00a.m. NO, SMC, HCC Alumni Hospitality Center, 
J.A.C.C.  
11 :30 a.m.  Glee Club Concert, J.A.C.C.  
11:30 a.m.  Porn Pon Squad and  
Cheerleading Performance, Bookstore  

12:00 
p.m. Shenanigans Performance, J.A.C.C. 

12:00 
p.m. Band Concert, Main Building 


1:35 p.m. Football Kickoff, Notre Dame Stadium 
5:00 p.m. Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6, 7, 8, 9:30, and 11 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Crypt 8, 10, and 11:45 a.m. Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
1:00 p.m. Men's IH Football Semifinals, Stepan Field 4:00p.m. Women's IH Football Semifinals, Cartier Field 

page 2 Thursday, November 5, 1992
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Clinton will bring about sexual equality 
For most male Notre Dame students ERA means earned run average and NOW means at this moment. But following the election of Bill Clinton to the 

presidency  and  the  Stephen  
equally  significant  Zavestoski  
election  of  four  new  Associate News Editor  
female senators, we may -------­ 

be hearing a lot more about these acronyms-as well we should. · 
Unfortunately, most men associate feminism with everything they fear about the movement: women obtaining power, the debunking of our patriarchal society, and the end of complete male domination. But whether these are legitimate concerns or not is of little significance. 
Men ought to realize that equality between men and women does not mean a man has to be any less of a person. In fact, Bill Clinton has said "Building up women does not diminish men." 
The primary problem that women face in regaining some sense of themselves is that most men refuse to recognize that there is a problem. Not unlike the Administration refusing to recognize homosexuals on this campus, men refuse to recognize their inherited dominant position over women. 
Men must come to understand how our values and the social structures in which they exist have failed to create an environment conducive to equality. Hillary Clinton may have likened marriage to slavery, but she was probably not too far from the truth. Actually, women are slightly better off than the slave. For her services, for being an object of the man's desire, she usually receives some sort of financial support. Until recently, however, she may have been subject to the same legal beatings, rapings and abuses to which a slave was subject under the institution of slavery. 
Every morning Orthodox Jews say a prayer thanking God they were not made a woman. Do not exclude your own patriarchal religion from such oppression of women. Ephesians 5:22-24 states "Wives, be subject to your husbands as you are to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife just as Christ is the head of the church." 
Ukewise, our political institutions continue to denigrate women. When the Republicans proclaimed a campaign of family values, they meant the patriarchal family in which the man has "legally and socially upheld prerogatives over the bodies and actions of his wife and children," according to feminist Naomi Wolf. 
The Democratic Party represents a "democratic family" in which all family members have equal say. Compare the Quayle's who would force their daughter to carry a child to term if she were pregnant, and the Clinton's who both have careers and have a raised a daughter who can think and make decisions for herself. 
_In t~e end, wha~ we have chosen in electing Bill Chnton to president of the United States, is a step toward equality not only in terms o economics, race or on other fronts, but on the gender front as well. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Sandy Wiegand Michael O'Hara  Production Cheryl Moser Whitney Sheets  
Sports Jim Vogl  Systems Vincent del Pino  
Accent Kenya Johnson Jennifer Guerin Terry Edwards Tomi Otey  Viewpoint J Brian Stalter Business Pancho Lozano  

Lab Tech Graphics Kyle Kusek Brendan Regan ld today with 40 rcent chance of ow. Highs in the 
s. Lows in the 20s. Partly sunny and Saturday with 
highs in 30s. PERATURES 
H L 
34 31 62 46 70 36 58 47 88 70 36 32 38 33 54 32 39 36 37 34 Jerusalem 77 61 London 61 55 Angeles 78 58 Madrid 79 50 Minneapolis 31 28 Moscow 39 34 Nashville 41 38
FRONTS: 
New York 59 45 Paris 57 41 Philadelphia 57 47 Rome 72 54 
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Seattle 53 46 South Bend 36 33
Pressure 

Tokyo 66 55 Washington, D.C. 54 45
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Principal's alleged killer dies 
PORTLAND, Ore. -A teacher who allegedly confessed to fatally stabbing his principal over a critical job appraisal died Thursday, more than three weeks after police shot him as he tried to flee. Steven Clark Foster 41, died shortly before noon, said Susan Klein, ~ spokeswoman for Emanuel Hospital. The cause of death was under investigation. Foster was indicted Oct. 16 on charges of murder and aggravated murder in the death of Allan Dean Gallagher, principal of Eastham Elementary School. Court documents said Foster told C!ackamas County sheriff's detective Lancer Meharry the mght.of Oct. 12 that he had murdered the principal after learmng that he was would be required to improve his performance as a special education teacher at the school. 
Town sues woman over pig 
GUILFORD, Conn. -Dolly may be down on the farm, but the owner of the 750-pound swine is in trouble. The town is suing Deborah Gallagher, seeking $90,000 in damages for allegedly violating an order instructing her to get the porker out of her backyard. Gallagher was arrested in June on three counts of violating the public health code by keeping the pig on her property from June 1991 to July 1992, but the state dropped the criminal charges after Gallagher took Dolly to a farm July 23 
Condor dies from drinking antifreeze 
LOS ANGELES -A rare California condor that died in the ~ld last month suffered kidney failure after drinking antifreeze. the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said Thursday. Officials said the bird, named Chocuyens, app~rently came acr?ss a puddle of antifreeze left by a vehicle at the Pyramid Lake recreation area. Chocuyens was f?und dead Oct. 8 on a rocky ledge near the lake's dam m Southern California's Angeles National Forest. Officials said the bird was probably attracted by the sw~et flavor ~f et~ylene glycol, one of the ingredients of antifreeze. B10logtsts had set the bird and a companion free Jan. 14 as part of a plan to reintroduce California condors to the wild. Only 63 California condors exist all but one in zoos. Six more are to be released into the ~ld in December. 
CAMPUS 
"Rudy" offers prizes for extras 
NOTRE DAME -Twenty thousand extras will be n~eded for filming of "Rudy" on Sunday, Nov. 15. Filming Will take place in the stadium beginning at 11:30 a.m. Participants will have the opportunity to win a Geo Metro from Gates Chevrolet, a trip to the Notre Dame/USC game, a thousand dollars in cash prizes and more. Those interested should call 239-8895 for further information. 
OF INTEREST 

• The Educational Childhood Development 
• Pomerium Musices, the internationally famous Center book fair will be Nov. 6 through 12 from 8 a.m. 
vocal ensemble from New York, is returning to Notre 
to 5 p.m. in Saint Mary's Havican Hall. Award-winning Dame on Sunday at 8:15p.m. to present a concert com­
books for children from pre-school to grade six will be memorating the SOOth anniversary of the death of com­
available. 
poser Antoine Busnoys. The concert is free and will be in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
• A graduate student mini-retreat will be Sunday from 3 to 7 p.m. at Fischer Community Center. The re­~ Logan volunteers, there is bowling today .. Pick-up 
tr~at will conclude with a pizza supper for which there IS at 3:45p.m. at the Pasquerilla West circle. will be a $3 charge. For more information call Father John Gerber at 239-8606 or Sharon at 239-8607. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1869: The first official intercollegiate football game was 
November 5 
played in New Brunswick, N.J. Rutgers beat Princeton, six goals to four. 
• In 1913: Mohandas Gandhi was arrested as he led a 
march of Indian miners in South Africa. 
• In 1977: Thirty-nine people were killed when an earthen 
dam burst, sending a 30-foot wall of water through the cam­pus of Toccoa Falls Bible College in Georgia. 
• In 1978: Iranian Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan and his 
government resigned, leaving Ayatollah Khomeini and his Revolutionary Council in control of Iran. 
November 6, 1992 
The Observer page 3 
Snipers shooting at Florida drivers 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­
Debra Lewis has a bullet lodged 
in her jaw and can't hear out of 
her left ear, the effects of a 
sniper attack on Interstate 295. 
"When you go on 295 right now ... it's playing Russian roulette," she said Thursday. 
Such attacks and a fatal as­sault by rock-throwers prompted the American Auto­mobile Association to warn motorists away from the road ringing the south and west sides of Jacksonville. 
State officials and some busi­ness owners are concerned the unusual warning will harm Florida's image on the eve of winter tourist season, though the state's own visitors' center is advising motorists to avoid the road. 
About 19 confirmed violent incidents have been reported 

since June and 100 other re­ports are unconfirmed by po­lice. One motorist died July 4 when he was hit in the head with a piece of concrete and lost control of his car. There have been no arrests. 
Sheriff Jim McMillan said he is asking the Florida National Guard for help in providing night-vision equipment and possibly troops to patrol the highway. 
"This is not vandalism or a malicious act. This is attempted murder," he said. · 
Police suspect several people have been -involved, including copy cats. 
Lewis, 38, said she is in favor of whatever can be done to stop the violence. 
"I just hope they catch who­ever it is," she said. 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
Remote control 
ABC News affiliate from Boston establishes a live remote from the Stepan Courts. The affiliate is here to cover the upcoming Boston College game. They borrowed the truck from a local television station. 

Touchdown At Hyatt For The USC vs. Notre Dame Game November 28. 
We'll Give You Star Treatment: Free Universal Studios Ticket With Room! 
Attention, sports fans. located only a pass
Weekends 

The new Hyatt Regency from the L.A. Los Angeles has a special Coliseum. You'll offer for all those in town cheer our new look 
Per room. for the Big Game. Hyatt's and delight in our 

Includes ticket. Football Weekend Package spacious guest rooms and complimentary includes deluxe room accommodations, Fitness Center. complimentary valet parking at the hotel With our late check-out time, extend and a complimentary ticket to Universal your weekend and take advantage of Studios Hollywood. your free ticket to Universal 
Before and after the game, H~Y-A-T_T Studios Hollywood. enjoy the luxuries of our REGENCY_ Additional tickets are recently renovated Hyatt, LOS ANGELES ,. available at a special price. 
Feel The Hyatt Touch.'" 
Second night just $95, including valet parking. Kids get their own room at halfprice or can stay in their parents room for free! Score big! Call your travel planner, Hyatt at (800) 233-1234 or (213) 683-1234 
or USC TRAVEL at (800) 634-7394. . 
C' 1992 •Rate is or double based on availability. Not applicable to convenuons or .Tax excluded. 



page 4 The Observer Friday_, November 6,1992 


CONSIDERATIONS ... ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE 
, 
t 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I ) 
I., 
Recent Observer reports and commentaries appear to be sending confusing signals relative to the evil inherent in homosexual activity. 
In his book, Homosexuality And The Christian Way of Life, Father Edward A. Malloy, President of the University of Notre Dame, observes (p. 132--133) that homosexual activism did not emerge in this country until the 1950s and '60s. That explains, in part, why, among pre 1960 adults, there is outrage directed at the growing acceptability of this sexual deviation. 
Moreover, he shares the opinion of numerous scientists that the "evidence against the genes as the cause of homosexuality is strong" ( p. 65). 
The Church has long held that there are four sins which "cry to heaven for vengeance": willful murder; THE SIN OF SODOM; oppression of the poor, widows and orphans; and defrauding laborers of their wages. 
Further, the Church has consistently taught that there are nine ways of being accessory to another's sin: by counsel; by command; by consent; by provocation; by praise or flattery; by concealment; by partaking; by silence; and by defense of the ill done. 
THE CRIME OF SODOMY IN THE OLD TESTAMENT 
The crime of sodomy takes its name from the town of Sodom. It involves men having carnal relations with other men (GENESIS 19:5 ). Because of that crime the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed by "fire and brimstone." (GENESIS 19:23,24). 
Speaking to Moses, Yahweh commanded that the sons of Israel "must not lie with man as with a woman, and characterized this unnatural act as "a hateful thing." (LEVITICUS 18:22). 
Also, Yahweh disclosed to Moses that this crime, and other unnatural sexual practices, prompted God to "vomit out" inhabitants of Canaan from their land and give it to the Israelites. Any person who performs such a hateful thing "must be cut off from his people. " (LEVITICUS 18:25, 29). 
Yahweh added: "The man who lies with a man in the same way as with a woman: they have done a hateful thing together; they must die, their blood shall be on their own hands." (LEVITICUS 20:13). 
EZEKIEL instructs us that the Israelites were worse than the inhabitants of Sodom. The latter, we are told, were steeped in the crimes of "pride, gluttony, arrogance, complacency .. and they never helped the poor and needy." Also, they "engaged in filthy practices" in front of God, and that is why He "swept them away as you have seen." (EZEKIEL 16:47..51). 
The Old Testament frequently recalls the awesome destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, which was brought on by the unnatural crime of the inhabitants of those cities. See, for example: PSALMS 9:5..6, 11..6; WISDOM 10:6..8; ISAIAH 1:9, 3:9, 13:19; and JEREMIAS 49:18. 
THE NEW TESTAMENT AND SODOMY 
In ROMANS 1: 19 ...32. St Paul echoes the words of the BOOK OF WISDOM (1:3...6; 13:1.. 19; 14:12..27). He says some men, refused to recognize the handwork of God evidenced in the natural world, and began adoring strange gods. As a result, God "delivered these people up to shameful affections. For their women have changed the natural use into that use which is against nature. And, in like manner the men, also leaving the natural use of the women, have burned in their lusts one towards another, men with men, working that which is filthy, and receiving in themselves the recompense which was due to their error... 
"Being filled with all iniquity, malice, fornication, avarice, wickedness, full of envy, murder, contention, deceit, malignity, whisperers, detractors, hateful to God, contumelious, proud, haughty, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents ..., who, having known the justice of God, did not und~rstand that they who do such things are worthy ofdeath-and, not only they that do them, but they also that consent to them that do them." 
In 1 CORINTHIANS 6:9.. 10, Paul says: "You know perfectly well that people who do wrong will not inherit the kingdom of God: people of immoral lives, idolaters, adulterers, catamites, sodomites, thieves, usurers, drunkards, slanderers and swindlers will never inherit the kingdom of God. These are the sort of people some of you were once, but now you have been washed clean, and sanctified, and justified through the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and through the Spirit of our God." 
Again, in 1 TIMOTHY 1: 9 .. 10, the Apostle to the Gentiles observes that the Law of Moses was never intended for good people, but "for criminals and revolutionaries, for the irreligious and the wicked, for the sacrilegious and the irreverent; for people who kill their fathers or mothers, and for murderers, for those who are immoral with women or with boys or with men, for liars and for perjurers, and for everything else that is contrary to sound teaching that goes with the Good News of the gospel that was entrusted to me." 
The LETTER OF JUDE instructs: "The fornication of Sodom and Gomorrah and the other nearby towns was equally unnatural, and it is a warning to us that they are paying for their crimes in eternal fire. " 
ST. JOHN, "the Apostle of Love," wrote in his Second Epistle: 
"Whoever revolts, and continues not in the 
doctrine of Christ, has not God. He that 
....------------------.._------~ 
Friday, November 6, 1992 The Observer pageS 
continues in the doctrine has both the Father and the Son. "If any man comes to you, and brings not this doctrine, receive him not into the house, nor say to him: 'God speed you.' For to so greet him communicates with wicked works." 
HISTORICALLY • • • 
As Father Malloy rightly observes: "The evidence against the genes as the cause of homosexuality is strong" (p. 65 ). And he further points out: "We are fairly sure that homosexuality is learned by some combination of influences at a time after birth. It is unlikely that a homosexuality identity is firmly fixed until the age of civic majority. But the more immersed an individual is in active homosexual experience, especially in the context of the public gay subculture, the harder it is to change. 
(p. 98, emphasis added). 
Every culture in history, Fr. Malloy notes (p. 3-), has "declined to accept homosexuality as a normal or desirable behavior pattern .•• [and] there is no major religious tradition which gives its official approbation to homosexual conduct." 
CONFUSING THE TROOPS 
We know that the confusion rampant among many today. Some of this bewilderment is caused by an excessive sense of Christian charity, and some is precipitated by "false teachers," of whom St. Peter, in his Second Letter, says: 
"As there were false prophets in the past history 
of our people, so you, too, will have your false 
teachers, who will insinuate their own disruptive 
views and disown the Master who purchased thefr 
freedom.... there will be many who copy their 
shameful behavior and the Way of Truth will be 
brought into disrepute on their account... " 
A confusing signal was sent by Campus Ministry in the October 1 edition of The Observer, when it offered gay and lesbians of the campus community a "nonjudgemental" friendly and compassionate welcome, and proffered, "if appropriate," to bring them into contact with others similarly situated. 
Confusing, too, are issues which Campus Ministry finds "unacceptable." On the one hand it holds that "harassment of gays and lesbians, or anyone else, whether intentional or thoughtless, whether through cruel jokes or in idle conversation, is simply unacceptable." On the other hand, the Ministry-on this campus dedicated to the Mother of God, -was strangely silent about the acceptability of the ridicule of her son, God Himself, when "The Last Temptation of Christ" played on campus, and when Notre Dame Magazine, not too long ago, questioned the reality of Jesus Christ and His Divinity in an article titled, "Who Do They Say I Am." 
RESOLVING THE CONFUSION 
To resolve any confusion, Catholics have always been taught to follow the Magisterial teachings of the 
Church. 
Fr. Malloy does that in his book (pp. 218..219), by noting the natural law teaching of the Church which holds that homosexuality is inherently wrong because: it is contrary to the procreative purposes of sexual intercourse; it is an attack on the basic unit of society, the family; it is deficient in the potential for complementarity between partners; and it is a deliberate pursuit of sexual pleasure in the absence of a stable framework for mutual growth and sharing. 
Moreover, Fr. Malloy makes a statement in his book which is strongly at variance with Campus Ministry's '"nonjudgemental' friendly and compassionate welcome" to homosexuals. when he observes (p. 106): "What has been happening during our period of history is that the greater tolerance of gay life, both in theory and in practice, has created conditions which are conducive to more explicit organization of the personal, social, economic and political lives of different types of homosexuals." 
He also declares (p. 341 ): "Since I find the homosexual way of life, including the most positive expression of it (namely, stable couples) to involve the pursuit of a disvalue, I do not see how the Church can pretend to give approbation to its continuance. Even para..liturgical rites [i.e., "Gay Masses," etc.] are an overt manifestation of support and encouragement. Otherwise, why go to all that bother. It is for this reason that what may seem like a small, insignificant accommodation of the tradition to pastoral necessity may create a climate of gradual acceptance. This is surely part of the motivation of the Christian theologians who propose it." 
WHY THIS MESSAGE? 
BECAUSE I share Fr. Malloy's conviction (p. 328) that the homosexual way of life • •• is irreconcilable with the Christian way of life." 
BECAUSE I also believe his prophecy (p. 328) has come true. That is, the the homosexual community has succeeded in contending, through a sympathetic media, that monogamous heterosexual marriage (and family life) is a sexist and oppressive institution and [must be] replaced by some up to now untried forms of sexual institutionalization. 
BECAUSE I have waited and waited for some other reader of The Observer, or for a scholar in this free exchange environment, to speak out in support of the Church's teaching on this issue. So far, one has done so. 
BECAUSE these following words of Pope Felix III, cited by Pope Leo XIII, in his Encyclical Letter, Inimica Vis ( 1892), moved me to write this commentary: 
"An error which is not resisted is approved; 
a truth which is not defended is suppressed, 
[and] ••. he who does not oppose an evident 
crime is open to the suspicion of secret 
complicity." 
Paul A. Fisher, N.D., '43 

1'4UVetltUel O, I ~~.C::
page o The Observer 
Special Mass recalls Sacred Heart is basilica SECURITY BEAT 
MON., NOV. 2 
Special to the Observer 
The Vatican decree designat­ing the University of Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church a minor basilica will be read at a special mass in the basilica Sunday at 10 a.m. 
Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne/South Bend diocese will be the presiding celebrant and homilist. 
An English translation of the Latin decree describes Sacred Heart as "a well known temple which traces its foundation even to the 17th century" and as "an outstanding testimony to the widespread labor of mis­sionaries as well as to their re­sourcefulness." The decree was authorized by Pope John Paul II last year on Nov. 23. 
The designation of a minor basilica is an honor which the Vatican extends to historically important churches or signifi­cant centers of worship and devotion. 
Mass was first celebrated in the present Sacred Heart in 1875, and it was officially con­secrated by· Bishop Joseph Dwenger of Fort Wayne on Aug. 15, 1888. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart is served by priests. brothers and sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross and is the main church for the University and the Sacred Heart parish. 
A history of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, titled "A Spire of Faith," by Thomas Schlereth, professor of American Studies at Notre Dame. was recently published by the University of Notre Dame's Alumni Associa­tion as part of the University's Sesquicentennial celebration. 
5:47 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Notre Dame Fire assisted a Pangborn resident who had accidentally cut herself with a knife at the South Dining Hall. She was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center tor further treatment. 
TUES., NOV. 3 
4:06 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Police officer cited a South Bend resident for speeding on Edison Rd. The suspect was taken to the county jail on an outstanding warrant. 
11 :32 a.m. Nc~re Dame Security/Police transported an injured Cavanaugh Hall resident to the Health Center after the victim had cut his hand while skating at the JACC. 
11:35 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported that his bike had been vandalized while it was locked up at the bike rack outside of his dorm. 
11 :58 a.m. A Pangborn resident reported that a suspect had purposely knocked her off her bicycle while she was riding down St. Peter Street in South Bend. The suspect was with four other individuals. They lett the scene after she had been knocked over. The victim suffered several bruises from the incident. 
1:40 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
5:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag and calculator from the lobby in his dorm. 
WED., NOV. 4 5 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police re­ceived a report that several concert tickets had been stolen from the JACC. 
5:57 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
Judge: USX steelworkers should receive pensions 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -A judge has sided with 1,900 steelworkers who accused USX Corp. of deliberately closing a mill in 1986 to cheat them out of millions of dollars in pension benefits. 
Attorney Gerry Spence, declaring a "victory of mam­moth proportions," said the workers could collect in excess of $100 million in lost wages and pensions. 
But USX said damages would be between $5 million and $10 million. The company denied wrongdoing and said it might appeal. 
U.S. District Judge Bruce Jenkins. who awarded the damages, said the exact amount would be determined at future hearings. The ruling, signed Tuesday, came 17 months after an eight-week trial. 
Jenkins ruled that USX closed the profitable steel-making plant simply to save on pension costs. He also said the company illegally changed its pension plans several times in the months leading up to the plant closure. 
The Orem mill was closed in 1986 and sold in 1987 to Basic Manufacturing & Technology of Utah, which became Geneva Steel of Utah. Spence said USX's plan was for its workers to lose all or part of their pension benefits by going to work for the new company, which also paid lower wages. 
his missiles because they would Travelers from Iraq, including under the Habaniyah airbase in deteriorate and become useless. an aerodynamics specialist who the desert west of Baghdad, as

Iraq
' ~ 
One source said Saddam has said he worked on Saddam's well as in the basements of 
•> 
to constantly keep the missiles weapons program before the mosques -at least one in cen­
l continued from page 1 
on the move on disguised trucks Gulf War, said the Iraqis have tral Baghdad -hospitals and
I 
The Western operatives, 
so inspectors who get tipped off buried large numbers of rocket other buildings the Iraqis don't
based in Amman to monitor 
to a particular location can't boosters. believe the U.N. inspectors will
Iraq, said Saddam can't bury 
find them. An unknown number are investigate, the specialist said. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
the turn of the century, he said. Elements of corporate consolidation weakened the close ties between Irish em-


Peru 
continued from page 1 
exploit cheap labor, explained Figuerola. "This relationship is the same in most Latin Ameri­can countries." 
Violence remains a problem in Peru. Figuerola drew a dis­tinction between different sources of violence. "Most
' 
> ~ young people see no future in Peru," he said, adding that this
t 
I 
hopelessness is often a source 
t of subversive activity as people attempt to force change. Considerable violence also arises in Peru as a result of the drug trade in the United States and Europe, Figuerola said. Cocoa plants, the source of co­caine, can be harvested by peasants for a considerably higher profit than would be earned by harvesting food crops. Figuerola estimated that some 300,000 peasants are in­volved in this lucrative busi­ness. "Economic conditions force this," Figuerola said. "With so much violence, governance is 
~e\ax With Us 
sn\pshewana at f.l. 
......_<:-, I (:I 

ot~:r 
140 Farver Street Shpshewana. IN 46565 
Just 45 minutes 
~ from campus. Relax in Indiana Amish Country. Your stay includes breakfast with Aunt Lena and a clean comfortable room. Call Now 1-800-435-0888 
~-L 
ployers and Irish workers, and new technology played a role as well. 
"There was a dramatic in­crease in tension between users of labor and the suppliers of labor," said Emmons. "Faction fights of a particularly bitter 
not possible under democratic rules." 
Figuerola explained his view of various economic systems and their potential ramifica­tions in Peru. He said, "The Marxists set a limit at subsis­tence wages whereas a Keyne­sian system has no such limits. Theories assume people care about their absolute income, but neglect how much people care about their relative in­comes and thereby their posi­tion in society." 
Figuerola said that in order to ease problems in Peru it will be necessary to attack societal problems. 
"If I were to suggest one thing, I would. put emphasis on social policies because they are often overlooked as important in economic terms," he said, including health spending, ed­ucation and employment pro­grams. 
This should help ease the wide disparity between the rich and poor in Peru, explained Figuerola. 
"The social contract in Peru has collapsed, but the only way to make policy is under a sys­tem of social contract," he said. 
ably," Emmons said. 
"The Irish came with the tradition of challenging the powerful instead of cooperating with the powerful. It was green versus green." 
~,.,'~ "·· .
./~>:-"'
'fl 
$?;:.• Amencan Heart Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 

''Pooh Bear is 21 today!'' 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Beth. 
sort began to break out." 
"The new immigrants came from an Ireland which had been drastically changed. By this time, socialism had been grafted to the cause of Irish na­tionalism, and the hold of the Church had lessened consider-
Rooms With AView 
We have rooms located on the Saint Joe River in Mishawaka for all Notre Dame games 
Extra Large Roon1s with Kitchenettes & Balconies Overlooking Kamm 's Island 


Center Motel 
<219" 256-1501 

r'llovemoer tJ, 1 ~~;,:::: 1ne uoserver fJdYtl I 
Some out of race for Cabinet seats 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Within 48 hours of Bill Clinton's elec­tion, three potential candidates had already removed them­selves from the running for top administration jobs -Okla­homa Sen. David Boren, and retired Admirals William Crowe and Bobby Inman. 
Speculation had all three as possible CIA directors in a Clin­ton administration. 
Crowe "is not interested," said aide Jay Coupe. A former head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Reagan, Crowe endorsed Clinton and gave him the imprimatur of the defense establishment when the presidential candidate was under fire for avoiding service in Vietnam. 
Crowe has not had any dis­cussions with Clinton about the CIA job or about becoming sec­retary of defense -another position for which he has been prominently mentioned, said Coupe. "Forty-seven years in service is enough," he said. 
Inman, a former deputy CIA Director, said in an interview 

TAl!.bATE PICNIC. so YOU CAN ENJOy THE GAtvlE! 
GRAPE. 'CLEVELAND 272·1922 
that he was not interested in a 
fulltime Washington job. 
Boren, outgoing chairman of the Senate Intelligence Com­mittee, has told Clinton he is not interested in the job and would rather focus on other policy areas such as taxes and campaign finance reform, said an informed source who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Boren's counterpart on the House side, Rep. Dave McCurdy, also an Oklahoma Democrat, appears still in the running for the job. 
Current CIA Director Robert Gates may be asked to remain for several months after Clinton takes office in January to ensure a smooth transition, said informed sources who also asked not to be identified. 
Clinton probably won't make any announcements of top jobs until next week. 
But as the guessing game picks up steam, these names are emerging as possible con­tenders for other positions: 
Secretary of Defense: Rep. Les Aspin of Wisconsin, Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia. 
Secretary of State: Rep. Lee Hamilton of Indiana, Los Ange­les lawyer Warren Christopher, Nunn. 
Secretary of Commerce: John Scully of Apple Computer Inc., Mike Walsh of Tenneco Inc., John Young of Hewlett-Packard Co., Robert Rubin of Goldman Sachs & Co. 
15Hamilton downplaYS dpeculatiOri '"'~ might be part of new administration 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP} -.· Rep. Lee Hamilton is downplaying speculation that he mightleave his seat in Congress from Indiana if he is offered a high-level position in Piesident,.elect Clinton's administration. 
..Fve had no offer, no dis­cussions of any kind with Gov. Clinton· about it," said Hamilton in a telephone in­terview from his Washington omce Wednesday. ~All those offers depend on relationship 
~ou have.-wit}l.!~~.J>tesld(tnt 
a... n.•...•.... d .. h.·..ow.......···.·· ·.t..h.•. ('!:..·.·.·.···''·•·.;:·r;·P·.··..·re.·.·.s.·.i..d..·.. •.e.·.•.·.·..n.·.t... ·••• perceives .• th~t.·.• partieula.r responsibility !t....••.•.·.• • ·. •···· •··· ··• •. 
·•·.•. ..... •'···.··o······.·.·. •·.1·.·.·•.·.·.11"J;-~.,.,u·~'.·..·.·····-.'·.• ... ·..o.·.·.··.·•,·· .• ·.·.~ ...•..•.···.·················.n.·,·.······.•.c· '""...··...... .. "·.··....·.. ..·,···.····O.··•.. •.·•.~D•:·. •.
·.····.T:··,.·,·.· .• .. ..•.+c ...."'.·····., .•.~.·.·.·.·.·.·,ID •. 6.···.····.~.··•··.. · · .. '.·.. •·.·.•.
··.,·.•h•., .. • ""'.·.·.····:·!'•.••.•...........·.····n···.·.•·.·.· .. ··. r··· ·.••.. ..-. 
"' v"' 
70 percent of the vote over 
Republican Michael B-ailey 
Tuesday in an election that saw 
only one Indiana congressman 
-Rep. Jim Jontz-. fallvictim 
tQ voter displeasure with 
incumbents. 
·Hamilton has been mentioned 
f()rweeks as onti' ofthe leading 
prospects to become Clinton•s 
secretary of state~ The former 
House Intelligence Committee 
chairman has also sutfa~~d in 
speculation abo11t the CIA di­
.~,~tor'sJ?.l>· ....··...····/w;,·..•...•....•..•...•..·····•·· ···•··•.··.····· · 
/.·~~•.It s.. e.·•. e. m. s.·•· •·· Ji&e.·.· .•.•. a dis.t.·.in.·.•·.t.t.··. 
.p()ssillility. He's clearly(;~ the 
l 
I 
Democratic Party Director Ann 
DeLaneYsaid. 
l 
I
Clinton aides in Little Rock, Ark'., on. Wednesday began· 
I
their search for a Cabinet and 
l
White House staff. A telephone 
1 message left there seeking 
I
,
comment on reports about 
I
Hamllton was not immediately 
I
returned, 
I 
1
Hamilton said be.has. never 
I 
longed tb leave Congre~i'for a. 
I White H{)use post Heishl. Hne. 
,1 
tP head;lhe Uf>UseFQf$lgn.. 
R.~latlofis• Cotfimitt~(lm;.and: 
1
becom~ ~·~·~h1iir~an'~r·.· a 
1 
·•. •.•.••.· .••..•··.••.•·• ••·.,..• .••• •·•• .•••· •.• .. ..·.·a.·.·.·.·.·.•··.·.J······,t·.··.·,.,.·.••.·.· .. •.·.. ····D·:· •... .• .. •. ···,n .. ··... ··f···.··.···.:···.·•........• ·.:· .. •.·.·•·.n.•.·.·.· A.•·•.·.•··. ·.•.1· ..•...a.· .. ............. .·.. . • . • <• ·• ·•··•·••••;.,;] . • • . ·. .··. . ..·.·.·.·..·.
••• •••.• ·•·•·••••·•.• · ··."'·',·..• .•·•.•·.•.•·.•.• .••,t···,·.•.•·.•.· ··•··.· .. ··.•.·,f.· ·.· ..
.B·· ••··•.. .•.••••.• •... •••.• · •.•. · •·.·.··.···".·.·.·.ft·.· •.•..· · .•... .• ·•.•·..•... .. .. ·.·. • ··.·.·.•·.··.·.n·· ·.·.·
.., ~,... ......... v ..............._ . u -~~ 
..>:f:~~~{ ··.. . . ::::·::::::_::{~:~~/~({: ·'N::· .-:-·-··:·::·'??;f:-:·:-· 


Clinton to change health care 
Sweeping reform plan to be released 
NEW YORK (AP) -For the nation's $800 billion health care system, it'll be further evo­lution, not revolution, under Bill Clinton. 
The shift toward managed care and limiting drug-price in­creases will be accelerated un­der the Democratic president­elect, who has promised to un­veil a sweeping reform plan within 100 days of taking office. 
But those trends had been taking shape long before Americans elected the Arkansas governor president. Even with a cooperative Congress, substantial changes aren't likely much before 1995. 
Great Tastes Begin Here... 

2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 
'Doe, 81! 120 N. Mam 
. .-terr:e•$ Mishawaka. IN Re•t••ranl 255-7737 
Reservations Appreciated 
short liSt and I thhik. he'd be lUi .})lpa,~!j~~n pan~l fp~'·\.ieon~ 
•....,J.'..·.·,··"'"·.•·.·.'•' .•..•••..•.••·.·..•·.··...•:.,~•·.·•.•·.····:.•·.···.• ..• ~""';:• #!
..'.·.·,••..• ..•·.•.·"".·• •.·•.·••··.·•.. gressto:qm ~wf-fG$;~9,_~,.•tl'P$fi[::#.. •. • 
Clinton is taking on the 
enormous task of trying to ra­
tionalize a baffling system of 
impressive technology, miracle 
treatments and runaway costs. 
The system has become a significant cause of government deficits that are undermining the economy. It affords the world's highest quality health care, but only to those who can pay. 
"These are extremely com­plex problems and you need to recognize there is no single so­lution," said James Buckley, a principal at the accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick. 
A cornerstone of Clinton's plan is to embrace the esti­mated 35 million Americans without health insurance. While that will create a surge in the demand for care and drugs, some experts fear their mass influx into the system might prove difficult to handle, even if phased in over several years. 
Because many of these people live below the poverty line and have gone without care for so long, they are likely to be, on average, less healthy than the rest of the population. 
Caring for them -along with 25 million others considered "underinsured" -will require close cost monitoring and a stress on preventive treatments like inoculations to avoid higher than expected medical costs, said Sheryl Skolnick, a vice 
president with Advest Inc. in 
Washington. 
Managed care networks, 
which limit a patient's choice of 
doctor and hospital and closely 
scrutinize treatment to restrain 
costs, will probably shape up to 
be the biggest beneficiaries of 
Clinton's reforms. 
Businesses already have learned they can save about 15 percent by having health main­tenance organizations provide their employees medical care as opposed to buying traditional health insurance, which costs about $3,575 per worker~ each year for a large company. 
This year for the first time, a majority of workers in mid-to large-size companies are en­rolled in managed care plans, according to a Peat Marwick survey. 
For drug companies, already under fire for hiking prices at three times the inflation rate in recent years, a Clinton admin­istration promises harsher scrutiny. Clinton has proposed cutting special tax breaks for drug makers that raise prices faster than average incomes. 
"It seems very likely that we would see some move on the part of Congress early on to take a stab at regulating drug prices because it's one of the easiest and most politically palatable targets," said Skolnick. 

Breadsticks now with Garlic Butter, Tomato Sauce and now NACHO CHEESE! 
Canned Soft Drinks now 50¢ each 
® (Choice of Coca..-Cola®, Diet Coke, Sprite, Root Beer) 
,.--------, r---,-----, ,.-----;;----,
1 4-14" Large 1 1 1-14 L_arge 1 1 2-14 Large 1 
. 1Topptng .
I 
1 Topptng I I Pizza with Stix I I 1 Topptng I I p· I I d 2 f d . k I I p· I 

Free Delivery 

1 1zzas 1 1 an so t 1zzasrtn s 1 1 1 
I $1995 I I $10°0 I I $1095 I
+Tax +Tax +Tax 
IAdditional Toppings .95~ each ;;&..I IAdditional Toppings .9~ each .,...L.. IAdditional Toppings 95f each ..AlaI 
I ~:~t Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Othor C..oupon .J
--------.________ ------­
HOURS 
Game Day Special: Every time the Irish score a 
M,Th,11:00 a.m.,1:00 a.m. 
touchdown, the first 10 callers to say "Notre Dame
Fri,Sat,11 :00 a.m. , 3:00a.m. 
Sun,Noon, I:00 a.m. Scored" Buy one pizza and get one FREE! 



page lj 1tle Observer November 6, 1992 
U.N. officials will monitor the airfields in former Yugoslavia
,, 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP)-U.N. officials an­nounced today they were ready to begin monitoring airfields across much of former Yu­goslavia to ensure compliance with a ban on military flights. 
Bosnian radio, meanwhile, said the government's few re­maining strongholds in the north were under heavy attack from Serb forces for a second day. It reported heavy shelling and 
~-infantry attacks by Serb forces 
; around Olovo, Gradacac, Brcko
i, and Gracanica, but said government forces held their ground. If Olovo, a town north of Sarajevo, were to fall, it would isolate government forces farther north around Tuzla, an industrial city 45 miles northeast of Sarajevo that is among about a half-dozen cities and towns still held by the Muslim-led Bosnian government. Serbs have already captured 
~ 
~­
1\ •'\ Nuns' slayings revive bitterness 
~ 
I• 

surrounding U.S. role in Liberia 
.' , MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) ­
; 
Slayings of five American nuns trapped in the siege of Mon­rovia have revived bitterness about the U.S. role in Liberia. 
"The Reagan government and the Bush administration have to share some of the re­sponsibilities for what has hap­pened," Roman Catholic Arch­bishop Michael Francis said in an interview. 
He and others believe the 
;, 
United States has a moral re­
<
.,-·, sponsibility to help end the ,; country's brutal, nearly three­
I 
•'· year-old conflict. 
Meanwhile, in Liberia-related developments Thursday: 
• U.S. officials said Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, try­ing to install a radical regime in Liberia and perhaps exert in­fluence on the entire region, has been funneling weapons to rebel leader Charles Taylor's group. 
The officials said Libya has been involved in the conflict from the beginning and recently increased its arms shipments, using Burkina Faso as a transit point. 
In November 1990, the Bush administration threatened to withhold aid to Burkina Faso if it did not stop supporting Tay-
MAKE ACONTRIBUTION TO LIFE AFTER DEATH 
American Heart Association 
1-800-242-8721 
TAKE THE KEYS. CALLA CAB. TAKE ASTANO. 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE. 
about 70 percent of Bosnian territory, most recently taking Jajce, about 60 miles northwest of Sarajevo. 
U.N. relief officials have been struggling to provide shelter and food for tens of thousands of refugees who flooded south to government-held territory and west toward the Croatian border after the city fell to Serb forces last week. 
Between 25,000 and 30,000 Jajce refugees were accommo­dated in Travnik, said Peter Kessler, the spokesman of the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Tomislavgrad, 25 miles east of the Croatian border, had 13,000 refugees, a Red Cross official, Adela Skaro, said Wednesday. 
Croatia has refused to grant entry to any of the refugees de­spite Red Cross pleas. Croatian President Franjo Tudjman said his country's resources were stretched too far. 
U.N. observers are to begin 
lor . 
• 
The State Department an­nounced it is recalling its am­bassador from Burkina Faso to protest that country's arms shipments to Taylor's NPFL faction. Spokesman Richard Boucher said Burkina Faso has "actively undermined" the peace process in Liberia but declined to say where Burkina Faso got the arms. 

• 
An AP reporter has spoken to Taylor fighters who say they received training in Libya and Burkina Faso. 


Taylor in March 1991 invaded Sierra Leone alongside Sierra Leonian rebels that trained with his in Guinea. 
This year, Gambia accused Taylor of being behind the rebels who attempted a coup there. 
• Drumbeats and prayers for peace rang from churches marking Thanksgiving Day in Liberia's besieged capital Thursday, replacing the terrify­ing booms of cannons, rockets and mortars. 
Gunfire crackled from a strategic double-bridge leading to the Gardnersville-Banersville area, northeastern suburbs where Catholic priests pray they still may recover the bod-


.1 OwnedB . Sun 4 p.m.· 9 p.m 
NotaFranchise•A Famt y usmess 
257 --1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York 'Pizza 
alzones•Hot and Cold Subs•Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Stttdent ID 
monitoring Bosnian airfields on Friday to ensure compliance with a military flight ban, Gen. John Wilson, U.N. chief military observer, told a news confer­ence in Zagreb. 
He said 44 observers would be deployed initially to 16 air­fields in Bosnia, Croatia and what remains of Yugoslavia. The U.N. expected to increase the number of monitors to 76 by mid-December, he said. 
The flight ban agreement was signed this week by Bosnia's Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, and Bosnia's Muslim foreign minister, Haris Silajdzic, as well as by leaders of Croatia and Yugoslavia. 
The no-fly zone was estab­lished to stop air raids by Serb forces who have about 40 jets and helicopters left behind by the Yugoslav army when it withdrew from Bosnia last summer. 
The monitors will be posted at four airfields in Bosnia, in­cluding northern Banja Luka. 
ies of the nuns, killed two weeks ago when Taylor's fight­ers advanced on the city. 
• Shipments by air to Taylor's forces have been stopped for two weeks since Nigerian planes in a multinational force bombed Roberts Field Interna­tional Airport, built by the U.S. Army in World War II, and a new airfield Taylor built at his headquarters in the central town of Gbarnga. 
Taylor was also recetvmg supplies by road from the Ivory Coast. 
Taylor began the war with an invasion from Ivory Coast on Christmas Eve 1989 that ini­tially was a popular rebellion against a brutal and tribalistic military dictatorship. 
Samuel Doe was an illiterate master sergeant when he seized power in a bloody 1980 coup, the same year Ronald Reagan won elections. 
..Reagan's government gave half a billion dollars to Doe in the first four years, more th they had given in the entir history of this country" founded by freed American slaves in 1847, said the archbishop, Francis. 

Security workers fear for safety in Somalia 
MOGADISHU. Somalia {AP} ­Foreign relief workers trying to feed Somalia's hungry are growing more worried about their own safety as the political situation becomes increasingly scrambled. 
Officials of some interna• tional charities say friendly Somalis have warned them their agencies could become targets. 
Violent events occur daily. 
On Thursday. gunmen made off with a white United Nations van in Mogadishu. 
The day before, two Somali workers were shot at the port when they refused demands to hand over two sacks of grain headed for the starving. 
Foreign workers have been caught in cross fire between rival militias and roving gangs of bandits. 
"Very sadly, it doesn't help the dying people if we get 
Irish two-party coalition government collapses 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) -The unhappy two-party coalition that has governed Ireland since 1989 collapsed Thursday in a complex dispute that was set off by a controversy over sales of Irish beef to Iraq. 
The government lost a vote of confidence 88-77, opening the way for Ireland to elect a new government on Nov. 25. 
With unemployment exceed­ing 20 percent, the economy looms as the main election is­sue. The ballot also will include proposals to change Ireland's abortion law to allow travel abroad for an abortion, distri­bution of information about abortion abroad, and the right to abortion in Ireland to save the life of the mother. 
Speaking to legislators in the Dail, or Parliament, after Thursday's vote, Prime Minister Albert Reynolds said: "I deeply regret the decision by our partners to create instability and effectively undermine my government under a poorly disguised pretext of self-righ­teous moral indignation." 
Reynolds, 60, who replaced Charles Haughey as prime min-
killed in the process of trying to feed them," said Rhodri Wynn·Pope, team leader in Somalia for CARE lnterna" tional. 
The U.N. military commander in Somalia. Pakistani Brig. Gen. lmtiaz Shaheen, this week urged relief agencies to take extra precautions. 
Ian MacLeod, spokesman for the U.N. Children's Fund. said all aid workers were warned ••to avoid unnecessary move­ment and not to travel at night." 
The United Nations and pri­vate agencies have about 200 people working in Somalia and hope to more than double that number before Jan. 1. Their mission is to get food, medieine and other aid to 2 million people at risk of starvation. 
ister and leader of the Fianna Fail party in February, has made no secret of his distaste for the coalition with the small Progressive Democrat Party. 
Fianna Fail won 77 seats in the 166-member Dail in June 1989, and the six Progressive Democrats provided a bare ma­jority. 
But the partnership was ac­rimonious from the start. 
In January, the Progressive Democrats -founded by Desmond O'Malley after he was expelled from Fianna Fail in 1984 -threatened to force an election unless Fianna Fail dumped Haughey. The party turned to Reynolds, making him prime minister in February. 
The issue that led to Thurs­day's no-confidence vote was a judicial investigation of the gov­ernment's support for huge exports of Irish beef to Iraq in the late 1980s. 
Iraq refused to pay more than $200 million owed to Irish cattle baron Larry Goodman, leaving Irish taxpayers to ab­sorb the loss and politicians pointing fingers. 
............
~~------------------------------~~-------------------------------------------~ 
November 6, 1992 1ne Ubserver page 9 


Major's fortunes plummet, but treaty vote is in his favor 
LONDON (AP) -Six months before U.S. voters swept Bill Clinton into the White House, it was John Major who was being hailed as the new generation's victorious candidate. 
But the fortunes of 49-year­old Major have since plum­meted. 
Even his wafer-thin victory Wednesday night over rebels in his Conservative Party who op­pose the Maastricht treaty on European union appeared more of a reprieve than a turnaround. 
He has a 21-vote majority over all the other parties com­bined in the 651-member House of Commons. But the vote defeating a Labor motion calling for a delay in ratifying the union treaty was just 319­313. 
The vote was largely sym­bolic, since the treaty still faces committee hearings, but it be­came a crucial test for a gov­ernment struggling with a pro­longed recession, embarrassing U-turns in monetary policy and a hastily abandoned plan to close most of the nation's coal mines. 
A defeat would have gravely undermined Major's authority and thrown new doubts over the future of Maastricht, which already has been rejected in a Danish referendum. 
The Maastricht accord, forged by European Community leaders in the Dutch town last December, calls for closer political and economic coopera­tion among EC nations by the end of the century, including a common currency and a united foreign policy. 
Some opponents in Britain fear it would mean giving up national sovereignty. Major ar­gues that Britain's influence in Europe hangs on ratifying the treaty. 
Major's popularity ratings have hit a record low for any British leader since polling be­gan in the 1940s; his charm and his unpretentious manner are now read by his critics as weakness and dithering. 
Major, a protege of Margaret Thatcher, succeeded her in November 1990 to become Britain's youngest prime minis­ter this century. 
"I saw a continuation of Mar­garet Thatcher's policies," Conservative Party campaign fund-raiser Lord McAlpine re­marked in a recent television interview. "Looking back, of course we hardly knew him. But he seemed to be a very de­cent, sensible sort of chap." 
Europe's supremacist skinheads
PHIL THE THRILL••• 
united by love of violent rock music 

BERLIN (AP) -The songs are
loud, simple and filled with raw hatred. This is rock for some­body who likes to throw one at
time to let your 
a foreigner, music with a stance you can beat to.
hair down! 
Europe's neo-Nazis are being serenaded -even inspired, some experts fear -by a new wave of rock groups who mix racist rants with thumping 
punk and frenzied heavy metal. "It's 'Mein Kampf' to a four­four beat," says Tony Robson, a 
(Go You.) 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS IQ DART BOOK COURSES ADDED 
AFAM 401 OJ #4747 -Social Justice Bi~gr_aphr; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45; cross-listed with ECON' 401, GOVI40 SOC 401, BA 40l,IIPS 401 AFAM 493F 01 #4751 -Representations of Motherhood; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 03:25-04:40; cross­
listed with ENGL 493F & GSC 493F AME 699 14 #4757 -Research and Dissertation; var. cr. hrs. AMST 458 01 #4756 -Latin-American lma~s of U.S;; 3 cr. hrs.~ TH 02:45-04:00; cross­
listed with ENGL 316F, liPS 31oF, GOVT jJ6FBA 401 01 #4750 -Social Justice Bi~gr_aphr; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45; cross-listed with ECON' 401, GOVT 40 , SOC 401, BA 401,IIPS 401 GOVT 401 01 #4748 Social Justice Bi~gr_aphr; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:4.5-i cross-listed with 
ECON'401.GOVI40 soc 401, BA 401 liPS 'tVl 
I 
soc 370 01 #4752 -Self and Sociery; 3 cr. hrs.· MWF 02:20-03: io soc 401 01 #4749 -Social Justice l3i~gr_aphr; 3cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45,.i cross-listed with 
ECON" 401, GOVT 40 , SOC 401, BA 401 liPS 4ul Tl-IEO 655 01 #4415 -Moral Phil & Theolo!;ical Ethici 3 cr. hrs.~ T09:30-12:00 THEO 672 01 #4547 -Eastern Liturgies Semmar; 3 cr. nrs.· F 09:.)0-12:00 Tl!EO 679 01 #4408 -Reformation Liturgies; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 02:20-03:35 THEO 683 01 #2602 -Liturgical Theology Seminar; 3 cr. hrs.; W 09:30-12:00 TI lEO 698 01 #2635 -Directed Readings; var. cr. hrs. THEO 699 01 #1654 -Dissertation Research; var. cr. hrs. Til EO 700 01 #1235 -Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr. hr. 
CHANGES 
AMSI AIU II BA BA BA BA CISC GSC esc GSC c~sc: l"JSC esc l~SC c;sc C~SC l !SC: l~SCc;scc;sc t:JSC esc ~lARK ~tAT! I MATHMBA MBA MBA t-.1BA ~tBA MBA MBA ME PHIL PI IYS soc TJIEO TJIEO TIIEO THEO TIIEO TJIEO TIIEO TIIEO TIIEO  360 01 481 01 391 01 391 02 391 m 464 01 204 01 227 OJ 242 01 242 02 300C 01 329 01 329 02 346 01 355 01 360 01 412C 01 468E OJ 47.5Z 01 477 01 493F 01 499 01 .3 70 -49.5 222 02 608 01 552E 01 561E 01 563E 01 622E OJ 675E 01 683E 01 685E 01 498C 01 23.5 OJ 250 01 513 01 20J OJ 39J 01 4.5.5B OJ 582 01 586 01 .593C 01 595B 01 596 01 623 01  #4684 #]646#()393#[296 .tt1690 .tt3111 .tt4062 .tt3804 .tt3981 .tt4616 .tt4575 #]596 .tt4563 #3563 #4601 #4712 .tt4703 .tt4574 .tt4702 #4586 #4700 .tt4625 #)327 #0598 #2943 .tt2634 .tt2951 .tt3114 #)273 #1732 #0377 .tt4446 .tt4335 .ttl410 #1380 #0209 #()596 .ttl776 .tt2682 #0265 #0237 #1534 .tt2933 *4546  ----------------------------------------- Add restriction: "Majors only through 1st period; then open to all" Change to "Permission Required" & H.emove prerequisiteChange to 3 credit hours Change to 3 credit hours Change to 3 credit hours Add restriction: "Accounting Senior majors only through third ~riod; then open to all" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Ch:mge to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Change to "Permission Required" Ch:mge to "Permission Required" Change resrriction to: "Majors onry through 2nd period, BA students only tfuoug_h 3rd PMiOd; then open to all" Change time to: MWF01:15-0l:05 . ..,. Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Add restriction: "Executive MBA students only" Change restriction to: "ME 439 & AERO/ME 334 C'.ourse is not permission required Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 Change time to: MW 11:15-12:30 Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 Delete pre-requisite (6 credit hours THEO); Add: "Does not satisfy universtty Theol~y requirementChange to 3 credit hours Change days/time to: M 01:15-02:30 Change to 3 credit hours & change days to: TH 09:30-10:45 Add restriction: "M DIV students only" Change days/time to: W 09:45-ll :00; and add restriction: "M DIV students only" Add restriction: "M DIV students only" Change title to: "Patristic Sem: Gregory the Great"  
COURSES CANCELLED AKbl 591 ol  #4577  
PSY  398  20  #2498  
PSY  425  01  #0212  
PS't'  498  20  #0330  
PSY  599  20  R'2538  
PSY  619  OJ  #4553  
PSY  694  20  #lOIS  
I'SY  696  20  #{)J18  
PSY  699  20  110675  
PSY  700  20  #1209  

researcher at the London-based Searchlight, a monthly magazine that monitors neo­N azi activities. 
The hit parade of neo-fascist groups includes Hungary's Dwarf Minority and Healthy Head Skin, France's Legion 84, Germany's Storm Troop, Bri­tain's No Remorse -a refer­
ence to the Holocaust  - and  
dozens of others.  
Czechoslovakia's  white  

supremacist Orlik, which split up after it was banned, sold 100,000 records last year, an amazing number in a small nation. 
Although the phenomenon is not new, the numbers of such groups -and their appeal ­are rising in relation to an in­crease in xenophobia and rightist violence, particularly in Germany. 
Under fire for their plodding response to neo-Nazi attacks on foreigners, German officials only recently began listening to the movement's musical mes­sengers and probing a company in Cologne that records and sells music by Europe's biggest neo-fascist bands, including to 
U.S. markets. 
In Britain, authorities are prosecuting a record distributor with a paraphernalia product list that includes Ku Klux Klan T-shirts. 
But another blatantly neo­fascist distribution company in France, Rebel European in Brest, has operated interna­tionally for six years. In Hun­gary, slick fan magazines openly cater to followers of skinhead music. 
Although people who study the skinhead scene differ on the degree such music works as a recruiting tool, they agree it provides a universal bond and common currency to white right-wing rings. 
•It gives them an identity. Kids in Poland, Germany, France all wear the same T-shirt," Robson said. 
The bands themselves fre­quently team up for impromptu concerts, usually in white work­ing-class districts. 

The Department of Music Presents 
A GUEST ARTIST CONCERT 
'.J{g,w Wor{tfString Qyartet 
Curtis Macomber Vahn Annstrong Jeffrey Irvine Ross Harbaugh 
Hadyn's String Quartet Op. 54.,d No.1, in G Major Bartok"s String Quartet No. 2, Op. 17 
Mendelssohn's Octet in Eb Major, Op. 20 
with 
rrTie :A{ptre 'Dame String 'Trio 
Carolyn Plwnmer Christine Rutledge Karen Buranskas and Graduate Student, Yi Xu 
Sunday, November 8, 2:00 p.m. 
Washington Hall 
$5 General Admission, $2 Students and Senior Citizens 

page 10 The Observer Friday, November 6,1992 

') 
/,.\I 
l(
I , 
1,' 
f' 



LouJ{o{tz, 
J{eac£ :Foot6a{[Coucli at tlie 'University of1\&tre 'Dame, requests your presence at tlie seconc£ annua{ 

Centerfor the Home{ess Christmas Luncheon Wednesday, '1Jecem6er 2, 1992 
11:30 a.m. Soutfi r.Bend Century Center 
:For reservations anc£ information, please ca{[: (219) 282-8700 
or write: Centerfor tlie J{ome{ess 813 Soutli Michigan Street Soutli 'Bene{, Inc£iana 46601 
'%ere are near{y 10,000 liomefess sfie[ters anc£facilities in tlie country but tliis is among tlie 6est." :Free£ 1(arnas, e~ecutive director 9\&tiona{Coalition for tlie J{omefess 
November 6, 1992 The Observer page 11 

In Oct., less claim to be newly jobless 
WASHINGTON (AP} -New unemployment claims in late October fell to 360,000, the lowest in more than two years, the government said today. 
The Labor Department report, considered a sign of hope amid other more dismal economic news, said claims fell by 16,000 from 376,000 the week before. 
In advance, economists had been looking for an increase of 5,000 to 10,000. It was the lowest number of weekly claims since the week ending Aug. 4, 1990, near the start of the recession, when 354,000 Americans filed for jobless benefits. 
In another report, the de­partment said the productivity of American workers increased at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 2.6 percent during the July-September quarter, the best showing in six months. 
The department also reported that labor costs, a measure of inflationary pressures, rose slightly but remained at the lowest level in a year. 
Meanwhile, a moving four­week average of unemployment claims, considered a more reliable indicator of labor market trends than the usually volatile weekly numbers, also hit a new low. The average was 371,500, the lowest since the four-week period ending Aug. 2 5, 1990, when the average was 371,000. 
Economists cautioned that the number may look more favor­able than actual labor market conditions. Since the start of August, some unemployed people have been eligible for benefits under a special emer­gency program passed by Congress last summer. 
Had those claimants been in­cluded, the latest weekly num­ber would have been 22,456 higher. The moving four-week average would have been 22,745 higher. 
However, even factoring in the emergency claims, the trend is still positive. 
Happy Belated 18th, Farter (Kira Huthchinson)! We Love You! Love, Your Roomies 

-r 
[)i§C::()Ver~ 
.J 
tiickurY Viilaue 
From the day you move in until the day you leave, our excellent staff will give you quality, personalized service. 
Look at some of the great advantages Hickory Village offers: 
• 
Beautifully Landscaped • Attentive Staff Grounds • Balcony or Patio 

• 
Clubhouse • 24-hour Emergency 

• 
Neat & Clean Laundry Maintenance Service Facilities • Air Conditioning 

• 
Cable TV Available • Planned Activities 

• 
Disposal • Free Aerobics 

• 
Sparkling Pool • Close To Shopping 


Stop by today and discover quality, affordable living. 
Efficiencies from $255 
1-Bedrooms from $270 
2-Bedrooms from .$330 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
Two-wheeling it 
Junior Alumni resident Ben Roese removes his bicycle from his trunk. Roese has to park in D-2 and rides his bike to and from the parking lot. 
Administration won't defend new cable law 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Justice Department said 
Thursday it would not defend a 
provision of the new cable 
television law that requires ca­
ble operators to reserve up to 
one-third of their channels for 
relaying the signals of local 
broadcasters. 
But the department will battle the cable industry's First Amendment challenge to an­other part of the law that forces operators to negotiate with the local broadcasters over the terms, including possible payments, for relaying their programs. 
In a letter to the Senate, the Justice Department noted that President Bush himself felt that the "must-carry" channel­reservation provision was un­constitutional and said so when he vetoed the cable TV act. His veto was overridden. 
The letter, by Assistant At­torney General Stuart Gerson, said that "The department would not substantively and could not ethically take a different position at this time," from the president. 
That triggered protests by the National Association of Broadcasters and a consumer group, both of which lobbied for the law. 
Bush administration says drug war works 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Bush administration claimed Thursday it has fresh evidence its war on drugs has been working-a study showing de­clining cocaine use when sup­plies dwindled and prices rose. 
The study was released just two weeks after the govern­ment reported that cocaine-re­lated visits to hospital emer­gency rooms during the first three months of 1992 hit a record 30,103, wiping out ear­lier gains and exceeding the record set in the fall of 1989. 
The study was based on data between 1986 and 1991. Re­leased by the Office of National Drug Control Policy and paid for by the Bush administration, the study by Abt Associates of Cambridge, Mass., that said co­caine use fluctuated in that pe­riod depending on its price and availability. 
"Supply reduction efforts are an indispensable ally of demand reduction programs," said White House drug czar Bob Martinez. "By making drugs more expensive and difficult to obtain, they help reduce drug use." 
But Herbert Kleber, a profes­
vi!"~ J~., NOW OPEN 

Try a Taste of Baja California 
Love, Peace, and Fish Tacos 
Open late on Fridays and Saturdays 'til 2 a.m. 
Dine in or Carry out 
r-----------------------,
1 OO
Off Any Combo 
• and Medium Soda 
In the Campus Shoppes Center across from Corktowne on S. R. 23 

277-JACK 

sor at Columbia University Medical School, said a basic flaw in the study was that it as­sumed drug supplies can be reduced or halted with more law enforcement. 
Cocaine "is too easy to smuggle in and it's too easy to grow. It's much more cost-ef­fective to treat addiction," said Kleber, who was an assistant director of the drug control policy office during the first half of the Bush administration. 
He said the fluctuations in drug use cited in Thursday's study may very well be accurate because they coincide with disruptions in Colombia cocaine cartels. "But the point is that it was temporary," said Kleber. "If you wiped out all the co.caine" in the world, it would soon be replaced by other growers and smugglers. 
The findings also were chal­lenged by the Drug Policy Foundation, a frequent critic of the administration's drug war. 
"Cutting supplies is the age­old theory behind prohibition," said foundation spokesman Kennington Wall. "But it doesn't really work." 
Wall also questioned the ac­curacy of the Abt study's premise. "More drugs have been coming in" to the country since the mid-1980s, he said, despite law enforcement efforts to catch smugglers and dealers. 
The Abt study said it gauged cocaine use by reported emer­gency room hospital visits, deaths from cocaine use and cocaine use among people ar­rested by police. 
~, b~ ~· 0~"~~"" $100
,,.~"~~o.~ 
b "0
~~~Challenge 
'?0 
Eat 5 lib. burgers in 2 hours and win $1 00. Call In advance for details. 
1 m lie east of campus 
1he Observer November 6, 1~~~ 
Judge appoints a new governor for Arkansas 


LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -Lt. Gov. Jim Guy Tucker should take on the duties of the governor and hold both offices for the remaining two years of President-elect Clinton's term, a judge ruled yesterday. 
However, the state Republican Party and the attorney general's office both said they would consider an appeal once a written order is issued. 
In a ruling from the bench, Circuit Judge John Plegge said the constitutional amendment that created Tucker's office and automatically replaces the governor with the lieutenant governor should apply. 
He rejected two other pro­visions that suggest a special
The Observer/David Hungeling 
election may be needed to
The Christmas spirit 
replace Clinton, or that Clinton 
In anticipation of the holiday AI Marchetti and Nick Galassi hang Christmas lights in their dorm. Recent may be able to appoint his 
snow flurries have increased interest in the upcoming Christmas season. replacement. 
Common Cause of Arkansas had filed an expedited lawsuit
Bush's Maine neighbors say that they are last month to determine which provision would prevail. Clinton has said he likely will not resign 
looking forward to a more quiet existence 
as governor until the issue is 
KENNEBUNKPORT, Maine (AP) -George Bush's neigh­bors are looking forward to a kinder, gentler way of life -for him and for them -now that this resort town will no longer be a presidential retreat. 
"He'll be able to walk the streets, talk to people," Karen Arel, executive director of the Kennebunk-Kennebunkport Chamber of Commerce, said Wednesday. 
"I'll be glad to see the 'KenneBushport' and all that Mickey Mouse stuff go by the boards," said Brian MacGillivray at Allison's restau­rant. 
Sure, merchants might get stuck with loads of presidential souvenirs: the "Summer White House" mugs, Bush Christmas tree ornaments and George and Barbara house slippers. 
But they'll be free of inconve­niences such as last year's protest by AIDS activists that virtually closed downtown over Labor Day. Or the march down Ocean Avenue by dozens of fisherman last spring. 
Gone too will be the hordes of reporters and Secret Service agents who follow the presi­dent. 
When Bush met with French President Fran~ois Mitterrand at Kennebunkport in May 1989, nearly 500 reporters overwhelmed this seaside community of 4,500 on the southern coast of Maine. 
Bush has vacationed in Ken­nebunkport every summer since he was a child, except when he was serving as a pilot during World War II. He and his wife own a nine-bedroom home on rockbound Walker's Point, a peninsula that juts into the Atlantic. 
But after becoming president, Bush seldom ventured into town except to drive to the golf course. 
I Hour Film Processing 

Across from Universitv Park Mall {i)~ 6301 University Conuuons r?®~~\rl Special Student Offer 
'b wtth Student 1.0. 0$1.00 off ll exp. roll 0$2.00 off 24 exp. roll U$3.00 off 36 exp. roll 02nd ser of prints free 
Hours: Mon ...Sat 9 ... 9 Sun 12 ... 5 
272..6710 
'i 
Bring this coupon to 
J 

Little Professor and receive 

$1 OFF 
a purchase of $5 or more or... 


$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or. .. 
$30FF 
a purchase of $15 or more. 
a...~·~.,.,~aiMr-bdoNy•~-pnc.d~ Vllel~Ddr.ud aoenMdwtaodw ........ 
~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
t~~ OOK CENTE . 
We lrelp you find books you'll love. 
Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at lr\?nwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
His election four years ago settled. caused anxiety among some 
residents who feared traffic gridlock and a proliferation of T-shirt and postcard shops. During the 1988 campaign, 
Happy-Birthday 
bumper stickers sprouted urg­ing, "Save Kennebunkport, Vote Democratic '88." 

Sara Ryan! 
Merchants acknowledge they benefited from the president's 
Love All Your Buddies
presence, but said they don't expect the town to tumble into 
from Siegfried
relative obscurity, like Plains, Ga .. home of former President 
2A&4A 
Cart~r. 
"Kennebunkport has been a tourist destination for decades," 
said Arel. the Commerce chief. 
Chamber of 
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan 
lnterl'iewsfor /\loire Dame .~enior.fl interfwted in ('orporate Finance will be held in ('hicago on Friday. January 8, 1993 
Plea.r;e submit a cover letter and resume by November 20 to: Alice Richard.~on Fisher 60 »all Street .J.P. Jforgan & ('o. lncorp()rated NnL' Jork. 1\Y 10260-0060 
JPMorgan 
J.P.Mor~an is an t'tJUal opportunity t>mployer 
Tucker, a former con­gressman, had filed to run for governor in 1990, but withdrew after Clinton made clear he would seek a fifth term. Tucker ran for lieutenant governor instead. 
Under Arkansas' constitution, Tucker serves as governor when Clinton is out of state. The provision put Tucker in the governor's shoes for most of this year. 
Under the watchful eye of Clinton's chief of staff, former banker Bill Bowen, Tucker kept a lid on the state's troubled Medicaid program and won the admiration of many legislators and state officials. 
Republicans are pushing for a special election. Sheffield Nelson, head of the state GOP and Clinton's 1990 foe, has said he would run. 
Attorney General Winston Bryant has said a court could find merit in any of the three constitutional provisions. Bryant, a Democrat, has not taken sides publicly. 
~------­

Business 
Friday, November 6, 1992 
page 13 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 


•NEW YORK -.·· ·· Long..distance giant AT&T could become the biggest player in mobile phones under a planned alliance with McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. American Telephone & Telegraph Co. is negotiating to buy a third of the stock of McCaw, the nation•s largest cellular phone operator. for $3.8 billion. the companies said Wednesday. AT&T said it eventually may buy control of McCaw. The move would give AT&T a prominent stake in the cellular market, an area where it has no presence except for selling equipment. The companies said the alliance would hasten the day when people would carry a pocket-sized phone and could be reached ea.'iily anywhere in the <:ountry, through one phone number. 
New une~lo~ment claims fall .· ·. 
•wAsHrGt tf-··· New unemployment claims in late October fell to 360,000. the lowest in more than two years, the government said today. The Labor Department rep()rt, considered a sign of hope amid other more dismal economic news. said claims fell by 16,000 from 376.000 the week before. In advance, economists had been looking for an increase of5.000 to 10.000. It was the lowest number of weekly claims since the week ending Aug. 4, 1990, near the start Of the recession, when 354.000 Americans flied for J.obless benefits. In another report. the department said the productivity of American workers increased at a seasonally adjusted annual :rate of 2.6 percent during the July­September quarter, the best showing in six months. 
Productivity of US worktrs DHI 
•wASHINGTON -The prodU.ctivity~~of American workers improved from July through September for the sl"th straight quarter, the government said. But the gains often came atthe expense of thejobless. "U.S.. firms are producing more. yet are hiring fewer people than they did during past economic·recoveries~ .. John Silvia, an economist with Kemper Financial Services in Chicago, said Thursday. "Instead. they are using thelr existing workforce to increase productivity." he explahl.ed. The Labor Department said non~farm productivity-··. defined as output per hour of work • jumped 2.6 percent at a seasonally adjusted annual rate in the third quarter. 
:=;:::::-~::.({Itt:~:{::;~;~:::;:=:=;<?r.(/ik ·=-··.· ·-·=. =·=-== =·=·=·-=
=-= 
····••••········· ··-:·.. >8; i!lii;:.@L.,/W 
8riail.i'd\!J~~ebB'!!~~f!~~tra~:n 
said Thursday that a bid by British Airways to buy a $750 million share ofUSAir could result in American investors losing control of the nation's sixth largest airline. The Transportatto·n Department said the proposal would change USAir's operations. financial structure and management...Key decisions by USAir would require the approval ·of directors appointed by British Airways:' the department said...The transaction raises questions about whether USAir would eontinue to operate under the control of U.S. citizens." USAir spokesman David Shipley said airline management wilJ evaluate the DOT statement and discuss it with British Airways,'· 
·we have said all along that USAir will continue to be owned and operated by U.S.·· cit­izens." 
Allen stresses need for stable US, South Korean relationship 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Ronald Reagan's former National Security Advisor told students and faculty that maintaining stable economic and security relations with South Korea is essential if the United States wishes to retain an ally in the Pacific rim. 
Richard Allen, Regan's top security aide and a Notre Dame graduate. focused on past and current US­Korea relations in an address given yesterday. 
"Basic trends in Korea have been exceptionally healthy for both them and the United States," Allen said. "Success is the intent-the objective of US policy, and our policy with Ko­rea can be qualified as a resounding success." 
He sighted increasing GNP. steady military presence (albiet funded by the United States) and increasing economic influence as evidence for South Korea's emergence as a stable entity in the Far East. 
"Korea's GNP and economy are growing very rapidly." Allen said. "Because of this. Korea has become a major player in both regional and global terms." Allen also said the 1988 Summer Olympic Games helped the rest of the world become aware of Korea's potential for influence. 
"The Summer Olympics of '88 opened up Korea to the world." he said. "It was unbelieveable to watch a nation open up it's shell-it will never be the same again." 
Allen's personal following of Korea dates 20 years prior to the '88 Games. His initial experience with the nation was during a visit as an advisor to President Nixon in 1968. 
"I sensed deep, fundamental trouble when I was there in '68." he said. ''I've watched Korea carefully for over 20 years now, and have seen the advances they've made." 
The Republic of Korea has approximately 42 million citizens, with over 10 million of those persons living in Seoul. Their GNP exceeds $270 billion while the per capita income averages $6,500, a number Allen says is relatively high compared with other Asian countries. Allen said South Korea would expand even more if it would change some of their internal policy. 
"They have had a persistent refusal to open all their markets," he said. "To make an investment in Korea can be a nightmare. Korean bureau­cracy is huge and always working." 
Allen feels elimination of this red tape would lure more US investors into Korea, benefiting both countries. 
"Korea remains to be a very good bet for US investors," he said. "Our special relationship is worth cultivating. We won't find better partners to do business with in Asia than with the Republic of Korea." 
Allen is currently chairman the Richard Allen Company, an international consulting firm and chairman of Federal Bank. 
Allen's visit was made in part of a Korean-US Prospectus sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. 
1 
1 
l 
I I I 
I 
l 
~ 
l 
~ 
1 l 
l 
I I I 
,I 
I I I 
1 
I I I 
1 
Administration to impose punitive tariffs on Europe 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration today announced its intention to impose punitive tariffs on $300 million worth of European imports that would effectively triple the wholesale price of white wine coming into the United States. 
The trade sanctions were announced by U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills. She said the administration had no choice but to impose the 200 percent tariffs, although she said she hoped the bitter trade dispute could be settled before the higher duties actually took effect. 
She said the duties would not go into effect for 30 days to allow white wine shipments already in the pipeline to reach U.S. shores. 
President Bush said the action would not lead to a trade war. President-elect Clinton said. "I don't want to comment on it." 
The United States had been threatening to slap punitive tariffs on European products because of the subsidies European countries provide to farmers who grow soybeans and other oil seed products. 
Currently, the United States imposes a tariff of about seven cents per bottle on wine imports. However, if the new punitive tariffs goes into effect on Dec. 5, the duty will jump to 200 percent of the import price of the wine. Thus, wine costing $10 at the wholesale level would face $20 in U.S. tariffs, pushing the price to $30. 
The administration's target list includes all white wine shipments from 
Europe. The United States primarily gets 
European white wine from France, with 
smaller amounts also coming from Italy 
and Germany. 
Officials said the list does not include red wine imports from Europe or so­called sparkling wine, such as cham­pagne. However. Hills issued a second list of some $1.7 billion worth of European products, and said unless the Europeans successfully resolve the trade dispute within the coming weeks, she would pick additional items from that list to slap higher tariffs on. 
The new list includes not only farm products but also industrial goods as the administration attempted to spread the economic pain in an effort to bring pressure on European negotiators to settle the dispute. 
Officials said that 90 percent of the $300 million worth of products targeted represented white wine imports. The other 10 percent will cover wheat gluten, which is primarily used as a binder in pet food. and rapeseed oil, which is used in cooking oil. Germany is the primary source of both of those items. 
Officials of the 12-nation European Community have already threatened to retaliate by hiking tariffs on American products. but Hills said the administration would not be dissuaded by such threats. 
"For five years. the EC has refused to provide the United States what it is clearly owed under international trading rules," Hills told a news conference. 
Lawyer: Keating's transactions were legitimate 
LOS ANGELES (AP) Transactions that Charles Keat­ing Jr. allegedly made to swin­dle investors out of hundreds of millions of dollars were legiti­mate business dealings, his at­torney told a federal jury. 
The former Lincoln Savings chief and his son are being judged on hindsight for deci­sions made during the real es­tate boom of the mid-1980s -a boom that went bust, Stephen Neal said Tuesday during his opening argument. 
"Now we're looking back and saying -'Oooh, why did they make that deal?"' Neal said. 
Keating's fraud and racke­
teering trial was to continue to­day in U.S. District Court. 
Prosecutor Alice Hill said that phony land deals in Arizona and other fake transactions created false profits that wound up on the books of Keating's American Continental Corp.• parent of Irvine. Calif.-based Lincoln Savings. 
Those transactions allowed Keating to sell investors bonds that turned out to be worthless, Hill said. 
Thousands of investors lost a collective $250 million. Many were retirees who lost their life savings. 
The collapse of Lincoln Sav­ings in 1989, when federal au­thorities seized it, cost taxpay­ers $2.6 billion. 
The federal case against the 68-year-old Keating charges him with 7 3 counts of conspir­acy. racketeering and fraud in an alleged scheme to dupe in­vestors in junk bonds issued by American Continental. 
Keating is accused of devising a fraud that bankrolled huge salaries and jet-set perks for his family and business associates while bilking buyers of worthless seturities. 
He faces a sentence of up to 525 years in prison if convicted of all charges. His son, who is charged with 64 counts, could be sentenced to 4 7 5 years. The two also could be ordered to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in damages to pur­chasers of now-worthless bonds. 
Ms. Hill said the phony deals began in 1986, when the elder Keating earned more than $2 million in salary and other compensation. His son earned $900,000 that year. 
Robert Wurzelbacher, a Keating son-in-law who is one of eight former associates who have struck plea bargains with the government. made $950,000 in 1986. 
Reactions to Clinton mixed 
(AP) -World financial 
markets were restrained 
today. with stocks and the 
dollar mixed after Bill 
Clinton's much-anticipated 
victory over George Bush. 
"The way the financial mar­
kets are reacting, it's a little 
bit of anticlimax," said David 
Brown. an economist with 
Swiss Bank Corp. in London. 
The dollar was mixed in 
oversea.c;; dealings and contin­
ued that trend when trading 
opened in New York. It fell 
against the British pound. 
quoted at $1.5600, down a 
penny from Tuesday's closing. 
The dollar fell slightly against 
the German mark to 1.5604 
marks from 1.5675 Tuesday, 
while it rose to 122.575 
Japanese yen, up from 
122.40. 
The dollar's mixed perfor­
mance overseas came amid 
speculation that Clinton's eco­
nomic plan would help the 
greenback. European 
currency traders said at 
midday they were holding off 
on further selling of the dollar 
until trends became clear in 
the New York market. 
The London stock market. slightly lower in midday trad­ing, took the election in stride despite Clinton's campaign pledge to enforce taxes on for­eign companies operating in the United States. Dealers said traders were more influenced by Clinton's promise to galvanize the U.S. economy, which they believe will outweigh the higher tax threat. 
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-stock index was down 3.4 points at 2,702.2. 
In Hong Kong, stock prices closed sharply higher as con­firmation of Clinton's victory triggered a wave of bargain­hunting, which not only erased early morning declines but sent share prices surging in the afternoon session. 

Viewpoint 
Friday, November 6, 1992
page 14 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edi_tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Avoiding service was wrong 
Dear Editor: 
I write this letter in response to Professor Phelps's moving letter about her father. Not hav­ing come of age during the Vietnam War I cannot speak to the emotional battle that was being fought in the American psyche. However, perhaps I can speak of its aftermath, for it is during this time that I came of age. 
President Elect Clinton's de­cision not to serve during the Vietnam Conflict was not what disturbed me most. After all the posturing back and forth over his position, I was left with the feeling that the issue was unfo­cused. 
Many Americans (who today are patriotic participants) did what they could to avoid the draft. But President Elect Clin­ton seemed to go one step fur­ther. He could have joined the National Guard or Reserves and served with honor, but he didn't. He could have served his community in the Public Health Service, but he didn't. He could have served a greater constituency in the Peace Corps, but he didn't. 
He just didn't serve. When the smoke cleared this is what struck me most. Not his position on the war, not his avoidance of the draft, but his avoidance of service. 
The aftermath of Vietnam is not the war itself but the dam­age it did to the idea of service to one's country. I can remem­ber in the mid-1980's being called a baby-killer by some be­cause I was on a Naval ROTC scholarship. 
When I tried to explain to 
DOONESBURY 
HEY, KNEIAJ ITaaJU? HAPPEN. KNt:Jt! I'/? 8& 
0 HUMIUATW 
Business Manager Richard Riley 
Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
people that I was joining the service solely to serve my country I was trying to explain what had become a foreign idea. I was talking WW II values but people were listening with Vietnam era prejudices. The aftermath of Vietnam resulted in contempt for the traditional values of Duty, Honor, and Country. 
To some those words are a catch phrase for conservative dogma, they are to be sneered at and belittled as a dinosaur from an era long since gone. 
But what Professor Phelps's letter points out is that era cre­ated heroes and leaders. It created people who were not afraid to speak out or strive to do something to make this world a better place. 
It created a generation of doers who led this country with single-minded determination. We shou1d not forget that this era gave us President Kennedy who called for us to serve, and in answering his challenge we looked to him as an example. 
The Vietnam era has given us the cynics who say that honor is dead. It has given us a shaken faith in ourselves and this country. It has damaged our confidence and tarnished· our honor. 
This is why I took exception to President Elect Clinton's avoidance of the draft. He will call upon all of us to serve, but we cannot look to him as an example. He will ask the best of us, but he may not have given the best of himself to this country. I see this as a fundamental tragedy. 
The election is over and a time for healing is upon us. I 
BCaV SUCJiA 5C.REWY YeAR, llN.3/0V CITYaJITH 7HATFP&CZ8 ~paJT 
did not vote for the new Presi­dent but I wish him well. My first priority is the nation and that far outweighs the pettiness of politics. 
I hope the new President will grow, and that he will seek to govern all of America. I hope that he will elicit the best from us, as we elicit the best from him. He is my Commander in Chief and he has my loyalty. 
I do not believe that the val­ues of my Father and Professor Phelps's father are forever lost. I believe that they beat in the heart of all of us. I believe that as a nation we will discover them after neglecting them for too long. 
I know a woman who served in the Persian Gulf during the war. She and her husband of two weeks volunteered to go because they heard their country's call. In the end she was sent but he was not. 
She met many of the troops and marveled at their bravery and sense of duty. She came home to parades and a renewed respect for those who serve in uniform. She was proud because she had lived up to the creed of Duty, Honor, Country. 
Today she hopes that this country will not be afraid to once again embrace those ide­als. You see, the woman I write about is me. I hope you won't be afraid to embrace these ideals. I hope that we can unite behind them and forge a better nation, a better tomorrow, a better faith. 
Susan Toth Off-campus 
Nov. 4, 1992 
HUP ()JR 6RaJNP,.. BARBARA aJT 'lHI3Rf3 
Ht.m!NG 7HOSt3 AII?S 
HeY, BIL~ 
A word from the Viewpoint Editor. • • 
Every semester, well-intentioned readers seem to forget the purpose of an opinion page such as View~oint.. . 
People forget that there are a lot of offensrye views m this world no matter where you stand on the Issues. And people ten'd to forget that the purpose of an opinion page is to bring views, all views, out into the open where they can be examined, responded to, and e':en con<;femned .. 
So if you're, not offended ~n occa~wn while readmg Viewpoint, we re really not domg our JOb. 
Another misconception readers have is that because Viewpoint prints something, we mus~ then:fore agree with it. That would mean that we at VIewpomt are pro­life and pro-choice, we must have voted f~Jr Bus~. Buchanan, Clinton and Brown, and we must thmk sex IS right and wrong before marriage. 
Others think that because we're the most widely read debate forum in the Notre Dame community that we should censor what is not politically correct, in the status quo or sometimes what is not even sane. 
Some say it would be better if we rejected some of the more outlandish editorials we receive. But we're not in the business of sweeping opinions under the rug, no matter how extreme. 
After all. what better way to deal with an extreme point of view than to print it in a public forum and allow the readers to respond? The best cure for darkness is to bring it out into the light of public inspection. 
And we allow readers to bring a lot of issues into the light through letters, columns, cartoons, and more re­centiy. quotes 3:nd poetry. We've print~d letters from convicts to presidents and everywhere m between: We don't discriminate and we don't compromise. 
Ironically, some of the most hateful responses. to material we run come from readers who perceive themselves as liberals. But how liberal is a person who wants to silence another because their views differ, even if the difference is astronomical? 
But we do have limits. They are the following: We won't print personal slander, libel or redundant material. But being liberal in the full sense is often frightening, because it means allowing anyone to say anything. 
Most recently, people are upset about an obscure col­umn we printed that was sent to us from a resident of New Mexico. And the response from readers has been terrific. Readers are speaking out against the injustices of the column in a way only anger could inspire; 
So stay tuned. Monday we'll have a whole load of re­sponses from people who may have never taken the op­portunity to write, educating people on a subject with some obvious misconceptions. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
rMGOING70 
07HUUH~ 
Joe Moody Viewpoint Editor 
P.O. Box Q, NO, IN 46556 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Don't ask me nothin' about nothin'. I just might tell you the truth ... ' 
Robert Zimmerman (Bob Dylan) 
Democracy's tough hu-persons, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
L-----------------------------~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, November 6, 1992 page 15 
Bush failed to deal with domestic predicament 
Bong Miquiabas · Guest Columnist 
In what may appear to be a brazen disservice to a freshly booted president, I plead for calm. We can finally repose from the campaign frenzy and consider the import of our re­cent presidential election. 
Less than two years ago, Ge­orge Bush "Galluped" high in the political saddle amid effu­sive public opinion. Today, the leader of the awesome multi­national effort that quashed the world's fourth largest army ac­quaints himself with the idea of retirement. (Perhaps he will play horseshoes somewhere in Maine.) 
Foreigners may stand aghast, "What kind of democracy could and would let this happen?" Americans query more pertinently, "What did George Bush do to orchestrate his own demise?" 
Clinton's chief strategist, the wily James Carville, put it best, "The economy, stupid!" When the giddiness of our Desert Storm homecomings waned, a sickly economy knocked persis­tently at America's, and even­tually, the White House's door. 
Equipped with no economic initiatives of his own, Bush dithered between conflicting advice: either deny that the sit­uation was as bad as it seemed 
or insist that the crestfallen 
economy would cure itself. 
Regrettably, Bush embraced 
intermittently both pieces of 
counsel, and doing so proved 
pathetically insufficient for his 
candidacy. 
Here we detected the Presi­
dent's first real chink in his 
erstwhile impenetrable coat of 
statesman's armor-an inabil­
ity to grapple with a troubling 
domestic predicament. (See L.A. 
riots also.) 
What is more, the economy enfeebled Bush unnecessarily. Any sensible leader would have examined the economic malaise in exhaustive detail, carefully pointing out the symptoms of the 'illness' and diagnosing the best, even if painful, "medicine" for recovery. While some may brand this clinical conclusion as politically naive, we should recall the scenario. 
Bush convinced the world that "naked aggression" in Kuwait would not stand, and in large measure, he delivered on his word by decimating Iraqi forces. 
If our commander-in-chief could inspire nations to join him, we rightfully asked our­selves why could he not bring similar determination and suc­cess to the economically battle­weary American? 
Politically speaking, for Bush accrued political capital, namely the bipartisan good feelings shared after the war, was foolish. 

One can only hypothesize that Bush did not foresee the sickly economy crippling him as badly as it did. And what of the impending election season? God forbid that Bush hasten to allay the primary concerns of voters! 
What emerges in the imme­diate analysis is a president who was strangely unrespon­sive to the extent of people's woes, the worst of which were wrought by a struggling econ­omy. 
This attitude, in fact, served the president his coup de grace Bush enjoyed at least ten months, an eternity in cam­paign seasons, to present a guiding economic plan. Nobody even expected panacea. 
Sadly for his backers, the President neglected to produce anything close to visionary. A more meaningful message prevails, however, over this dramatic political collapse, and it eclipses the presidency and citizenry alike. 
There is but one answer to the first question, "What kind of democracy could and would let this happen?" Answer: an effective one. One of democ­racy's most becoming beauties lies in this verity: leaders must 
the populace because accountability awaits them. 
Fearful Republicans may la­ment, and understandably, a two-thirds Democratic majority in the federal government. But democracy promises that, should these leaders fail us, we can peacefully show them the door. 
It is a truth whose implica­tions simply escaped Mr. Bush. For the sake of our country, let us all learn from history, once again. 
Bong Miquiabas is a junior majoring in Arts and Letters. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Urban Plunge provides opportunity, experience 
Dear Editor: 
Perhaps you have glanced at the flyers that describe what the Urban Plunge is all about --forty-eight hour immersion into inner city life, opportuni­ties to experience conditions of poverty, injustice, and apathy existing in our cities, and the privilege of meeting with peo­ple who work to improve social justice in the inner city. The Urban Plunge is all of these things and more. 
The Urban Plunge allows the participants to meet the people who experience poverty, homelessness, and social jus­tice daily. Being able to talk with people who wrestle to live everyday puts a human face to ideas like poverty and home­lessness that may seem ab­stract to those who have had little or no contact with the in­ner city. 
Urban Plunge provides the opportunity for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to discover the individuality and the diversity of our brothers and sisters who struggle day to day to survive; brothers and sisters who are often portrayed as a monolithic people. 

When I participated in the Urban Plunge two years ago, I did not know what to expect, and I did not expect to meet some of the most interesting people in my life. My Urban Plunge experience changed the way I viewed social injustice and the people who I encoun­tered during my Plunge. 
I knew then and I know now that I alone cannot change the world, but my Urban Plunge opened the door and showed me that I have a responsibility to serve my community in my own way. 
The Urban Plunge will not be the same for everybody and not all people will be affected the same way, but each Urban Plunge experience is well worth the adventure. 
Jacquelyn Ann Kyles Farley Hall Nov. 3, 1992 
Letter author clarifies statements 
Dear Editor: 
l am writing in response to Annie Linehan's letter (The Observer, Oct. 30, 1992) in which she seemed outraged over a statement I made in a prm.ious letter. 
I would like to take this opportunity to clear up any misconceptions over that statement and to publicly reply to her assailments on me. 
First of all, she quoted me extremely out of context. She used the quote "abortion is even worse of an evil than rape or slavery." She mistakenly left out the words "I feel." She made it seem like I was making a statement of fact rather than opinion. That quote is how "I feel," so by no means was I im­plying it to be a fact of life for everybody. 
If one objectively read the en­tire paragraph in which that quote is take, he or she would see that I was trying to reveal the horror of abortion by comparing it to other evils such as rape and slavery. By no means was I trying to lessen the evilness of human bondage or of a sexual assault. 
The severity of different evils depends on the individual who is merely voicing my opinion. Linehan's letter was based on an edited quote of mine, and I feel it was unfairly publicly slandered. 
She asked me "Have you ever been raped, enslaved, or preg­nant?" I ask if she has ever had her skull crushed and her limbs torn from her body? 
Has she ever been·scorched to death by hot saline solution? Has she ever been vacuumed into a machine that sliced her up into many pieces? She doubts that I have ever been enslaved or raped. and I doubt if she has ever been aborted. 
"Have you ever been raped, enslaved, or pregnant?" What has society come to when pregnancy is considered as bad as rape or slavery? Society has become wicked, very wicked if that is the case. 
Linehan feels that I have no busine;:,s speaking about rape, slavery, or abortion, since she assumes that I have never been personally associated with any of those. 
First of all, I feel she has no right in making assumptions about me when she does not know me as a person. 
Second, do people have to go through an experience to have the right to talk or form opin­ions about it? There are many things that we know and un­derstand about life although we never personally experience them. 
Take gynecology, for example. Many gynecologists are men, so naturally they can never un­dergo a gynecological exam. Does this mean that men c(\n­not be experts on the female reproductive system and there­fore should not be gynecolo­gists? 
Then she says, "I do not un­derstand where you came up with the audacity to share that statement with the Notre Dame community." As an American, I have the right to voice my opinion on any topic matter wherever and whenever I feel it necessary. 
It is called freedom of speech, and I thank God that I have that right. Otherwise. I would be silenced by those who do not want others to speak publicly about controversial issues. 
She goes on to ask, "Would you side with the rapist in forcing the woman to raise that child due to your belief that abortion is a far worse evil?" I would not "side with the rapist" on any account, and in regardsto forcing the woman to raise the child, as a society we must never forget (although we already have) that adoption is the life-giving answer to "unwanted" babies. 
Finally, in her last statement, Linehan called me coldhearted and ignorant. Naturally I took offense to that, especially since she does not personally know me. In regard to being cold­hearted, please read my entire letter from Oct. 8. 
If Linehan or anyone else feels that I am heartless and incompassionate after reading my Oct. 8 letter, then I am re­ally living in a lurid and crazed society if protectors of life are construed as coldhearted and ignorant, and those who pro­mote abortion are thought to be warmhearted and educated people. 
Robert E. Payne Alumni Hall Nov. 2, 1992 
#7<-~,-;c==--.--,,.,~.,, _____ ~"­
,; 
I 
I :r 
., 
/ 
' 
•' 
/' .,.... 

NOVEMBER 6-8 
weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC 
P.S. Dump Y~r BoYfriend. Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m.Red Alert, Twtst & Shout, 9:30p.m.Jazz Friction,Club 23, 10 p.m. Happy catastrophe, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 
9;"30 p.m.The Statesmen and the Pfieffer$, O'LaughlinAuditorium, Saint Mary's, 7:30p.m. 
EVENTS 
Don Reese, comedian, Washington Hall, 8 p.m., $3 Where's Charley?, Bristol Opera House, 8;15 p.m., 
~4116 % 
Our Town, Battell Center, Mishawaka, 8.p.m. 

ay 
MUSIC 
Red Alert, Twist & Shout, 9:30p.m. Jazz Friction, Club 23, 10:30 p.m. 
P.S. Dump Your BoXf.!:lend, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. ..Where's Charley? Bristol Opera House, 8:15p.m. 
EVENTS 
Notre Dame vs. Boston College, Notre Dame Stadium, 
12:30 p.m. Christmas Bazaar and Craft Show, Pennway Church 
of God, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Festivals Around the World, College Mennonite Church, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., 535-7571 
s 
y 
MUSIC 
"Mostly Mozart",-(Mosaic Series concert featuring Laura Mikkola, piano), O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 
2:30p.m. "Pomerlum Muslces",CCE, 8:15p.m. Red Alert, Twist & Shout, 8 p.m. 

FRIDAY and SATURDAY 
American Me, Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. Zentropa, Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. Friendly Persuasion, Morris Civic Auditorium, 
2 & 6 p.m. 

Snite Museum exposes 
students to culture with a 
By KEVIN DOLAN Accent Writer 
H 
ow many students have visited the Snite Museum of Art recently? 
According to museum direc­tor Dean Porter, very few. 
The Snite is as good as they come, in terms of university museums, he explained. 
"This is your museum," said Porter. "Everything we do is done with students in mind-no admission, plenty of exhibi­tions and movies, formal tours. We have a lot to offer." 
The museum, located next to O'Shaughnessy on the southeast side of campus, has hosted exhibits by such art giants as Renoir, Calder, Picasso, and currently, Rodin. The Snite rotates its collection every three years, and runs approximately 12 to 14 shows annually. 
One of the most controversial exhibits hosted by the Snite featured works by Christo, who is famous for surrounding several small Florida islands with bright pink fabric that actually floated in the water, sparking protests from ecologists. 
"That was our best publicized opening," said Porter. "We had 1,100 people line up on a Sunday to see the 
opening of the show and the auditorium was filled to hear Christo speak." Exhibitions are the best way to tie art into education, according to Porter. 
"We try to get everybody involved," he said. "The best example was in 1986, when we .did 'The Age of Visari.' Theol­ogy, history and art were all tied in to one exhibit: that's the paradigm of what 
·._: :_: ·_:/;:<?-::: :. _.:-:<: :·-·.:::;:~>>: ;:,·-· >:: :::;~;:;::. :' _.:·:: ·:· ·_ ·__ ·. _·--· . ':'.:. 
'We nave li~ct $om~ very .. generous•.-donations and·the••·••--·­Qll.ality of OtJf.~){pibits is sec()nd 
tO none.. l~m V§r}' proud of e>:L1r. ­collection 
and lhope 
it continues
tagrow.t · · · ·­
>q)ean P·orter 
we are trying to ao.. . -. The Snite Museum of Art opened officially on Nov. 9, 1980. Designed originally to accommodate the university's expanding art collection, which had filled up the O'Shaughnessy galleries, the museum has grown at a rapid pace. Over the years, the Snite has seen more than 1 million visitors for 125 
shows. 
Downstairs in 1 the Annenberg which features each week and s1 people. The lar pacity pleases P01 
"I used to lug 1 a room whenever ture. Now we car ple in a comfor rium," he said. 
The Porter cite programs hosted one of his favor annual student ar 
During the sl artists exhibit 1 works, and a jur to choose an ov The winner recei' award from the the artist's work i university's collec 
The show givt experience with a 
"It [the student works by studen which is a good Dame communit said. 
Although all o 
Works of renowned arti 
By ANALISE TAYLOR Accent Writer 
J 
ust who are Michelangelo, Donatello, Leonardo, and Rafael? If the first inclination 
is to say the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles than it's time for some cultural awareness. 
Various works of art are now on exhibit at The Snite. The numerous pieces include prominent sculptures by French sculptor Auguste Rodin, pho­tographs by accomplished photojournalist Elliott Erwitt, and sculptures by Frederick Beckman and Father Anthony Lauck. 
Rodin's bronze sculptures are on loan from the B. Gerald Cantor Collections. More than seven hundred pieces constitute the large, comprehensive private holding. 
Three of Rodin's greatest public com­missions-"The Gates of Hell," "The Burghers of Calais," and "The Monument to Balzac" are prime examples of single figures, portraits, and figural fragments. 
"The B. Gerald Cantor collections have brought this exhibition of sculptures by the world's most important French impressionist sculptor, Auguste Rodin, to communities of all sizes across America," said Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum. 
"We are truly fortunate to have this collection in Michiana.," he added. 
Rodin was inspired by Michelangelo and Donatello, as well as the great French writers of the period, according to Stephen Spiro, chief curator at the Snite. 
"Rodin revolutionized sculpture by speaking the unspeakable in theme and form," said Spiro. 
The photographs by Erwitt include his famous series on dogs, entitled "Son of Bitch." 
The commercial photographer works as a free lance photographer and has done work in such noted magazines as Collier's, Look, Life, and Holiday. 


-~ ---~-, 

university's collection. steadily earning the Snite respect and the collection out for viewing." The show gives students practical visibility on campus, Porter said he sees Porter said he sees the Snite as one of experience with a juror, said Porter. plenty of room for improvement at the the University's major assets. 
"It [the student art show] also brings museum. "We have had some very generous works by students into the collection, "We want to make it more of an ed­donations, and the quality of our which is a good reflection of the Notre ucational building," he said. "Having exhibits is second to none," he Dame community over the years," he more classrooms would make it a little commented. ''I'm very proud of our said. more visible to students. Then, if we collection, and I hope it continues to 
Although all of these programs are could expand a bit, we could put more of grow." 
dartists exhibited on campus 
Erwitt is best known for his more personal photographs that capture the amusing relationships between men, Michelangelo, women, children, animals, and the .eonardo, and world around them, according to Spiro, first inclination Visual puns and situations using feenage Mutant unrelated people and objects in a wide ; time for some variety of settings establish humor as 
an acceptable means of expression in Lrt are now on Erwitt's works. 
The numerous "If my pictures help some people see ·nt sculptures by things in a certain way, it's probably to ste Rodin, pho­look at serious things non-seriously," 
Cyrus and _ band realize 

accomplished the photographer said. "Everything's that their fans are_ responsible .U 1tt Erwitt, and serious. Everything's not serious." for their lmge success. and k Beckman and Beckman, Professor emeritus of . they are-htl!ll])led b-y it. __-.-·• · ­
Notre Dame's Art, Art History, and ..When· BiUy Ray· -­lptures are on Design Department, has his polished the ground, if you re1111enlD€~r: ;erald Cantor steel and marble sculptures on display this show. my. epitaph t seven hundred at the O'Shaughnessy Gallery. They read ·som-e-Gave AU'._" ...,.,.~"""····• 
the large, were created since his semi-retirement Cyru$ introdu~ing his·.. . holding. from the University in 1989. . album song. ·As. the· song .test public com­"My purpose is to show that sculp­J.-~'WlrYj)!J~,;><K·~n1tf.li:l~Y~J.... . . ... . ~tl1fW(J,> ~t,>l~rge Am~dc~n :tla.g 
. of Hell," "The ture and strong design go hand in ··. 1ad.i~s r()lled ·.down from t:be .. ;, " and "The hand; that even the polished surfaces Seeret . backdrop.> The ·song is a Lc" are prime are essential to the emotions expressed tonight;~ •·· tribute inspired by a 1989 haf:':' 
:ures, portraits, in each work," Beckman commented. room meeting with a Vietnam According to the artist, the figures v~t; . . 
ttor collections explore the interactions of shapes and ·· It~s evident that Cyrus· coun.. . exhibition of reflective qualities of light on the • try music is.deiived from more . world's must textured surfaces. than cowboys and ranchers. impressionist Beckman is a University of Notre . fie sa.Jlg a solo of the Natio~al 
Rodin, to Dame alumnus who founded and di­.Anthem as wen as an enc()re sizes across rected the University's industrial and of "Achy Break¥Heart", .. Jrter, director of graphic design programs. "I knew about Notre Dame­
Lauck is a teacher, a sculptor, a being a viSllal, .Jnud crowd but ate to have this priest, and director emeritus o( the .being here exceeded "he added. Snite Museum. expectations ... said Cyrus by Michelangelo The human form is the central motif the show. 11 as the great in Lauck's sculpture; he uses stone and ..Ifs a dream rome true for a eriod, according wood as his foremost medium for boy from Kentucky tn play f curator at the carving. Lauck's bronze casting of Our here. The crowd really blew 
Lady of the University can be seen at tb€ roof off the house." he !d sculpture by the main entrance of the museum. smiled. cable in theme Lauck earned his degree in liberal . Cyrus definitely is a 
arts from the University of Notre ) country singer who has Erwitt include Dame. Photo courtesy of Snite Museum of Art .. began to explore how far dogs, entitled The displays by Beckman, Lauck, French impressionist Auguste Rodin expressed a revolutionary artistic ..Acby-Breaky.. mania can and the photographs of Erwitt are language in his sculptures. In 1883, he created "Caryatid with Urn," which him. After SiJeing his ......nl.,~·.-.,.-~ ographer works currently being shown and will is now on display at the Snite. . mance last night~ 
rapher and has continue until Dec. 27. Rodin's exhibit means bUSiness and is here· !d magazines as will end Nov. 15. stay~ l Holiday. 


' 
page 18 Friday, November 6, 1992 
Can Americans escape the abortion gridlock? 

Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-LaFortune Student Center-239-8128 
. Hours: 
Friday, 12:00-9:00 prn Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 prn Sunday, 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
Ear11 SAs A Mobile Disc-Jockey!! 
Successful D.! Senrice shares it's secrets with a complete bzstructional video. 
Professionally produced by Excelsior Video Service. 
,~,~c~·~~·~~~~"~-~~~~~~s~· 
All Aspects Covered 
Including: 
Selecting A Sound System 
Advertising 
Escntial Music Catalog 
Music Mixing Techniques 
Finding Your Style 
Proper Wedding Etiquette 
and MUCH MOREl 
Perfect inccme for college students! (Please add $3.00 for shipping & include your return address & phone H) 
For Additional Information call (502) 454-5141 
A Sound investment at only $29.95 Mail your order to: 3101 Punnan Dlvd. Louisville, KY 40220 
Everything you need to know to get your own business st:uted. 
New for '92 
Play like a Champion Today ­
Spirit Towel 
Catch the spirit and own a piece of history at the same time. A MUST have item! 
To get yours just contact any member of the 
Student Union Board ~~ S. A~' R. G. J'j~V 
~ Also available at the Alumni Office -Main Building 

NOTRE DAME: A SENSE OF PLACE 
The most dramatic visual celebration of Notre Dame ever produced is now available in a paperback edition published by the University of Notre Dame Press. Its more than 100 four­color, full-page photographs by William Strode capturing the essence and spirit of Notre Dame make this the perfect keepsake of a special place. 
$21.95 paper• II" x 9"•Io6 color photographs 
Available at 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
• The Second Floor • 
As the catcher in the rye, Holden Caufield anguishes over the "perverts" who write "F-k you" on the museum walls where the little kids can see it. After the rest of us are dead, says Holden, the graffiti artists will still be in business, writing obscenities on our tombstones. 
On Tuesday, The Observer ran a letter to the editor which promoted recreational promis­cuity as a way of making friends: "Enjoy life, and do not to forget to have sex for the sake of having sex." The ideas were banal: nevertheless. they gained your attention, like the "F-k you's" that were an eyesore to Holden, because the message belonged in an outhouse, not a newspaper. 
Was the lad who wrote it pulling our leg, since he must know that intercourse so mindless could ruin the neighborhood? If he's sincere, he must be an artful dodger in need of neutering, like the dogs of which they speak when they call a spayed a spayed. 
It's the morning after Clin­ton's election, and I voted for the pro-choice candidate be­cause I believed the election needed to be decided on more than one issue. This doesn't mean that I intend to wring my hands and weep piteously as abortions continue at their ac­customed pace. 
Voting for the pro-life candidates Reagan and Bush didn't change anything, Maybe as Christians, we should not have expected it to. 
For centuries, churches have . been shooting themselves in the 
Father Robert Griffin 
heifers loa Bonefy 9ocf 

Christian community. 
It would tickle me to death if the Center of Social Concerns would set up meetings .with representatives from Planned Parenthood, to see if thoughtful people could agree on guide­lines that would eliminate the totally irresponsible abortions. 
For example, when a couple wanting a boy find out the the child they are expecting is a girl, or when fetuses are de­stroyed though the woman is seven or eight months along. 
If abortions now number a million and a half a year, could we prevent 100,000; 200,000; or 500,000 abortions annually by outlawing the sheer butchery of viable life? Isn't reasoning together to reduce gridlock the kind of thing Ross Perot would call for? 
Could we hold town hall-style meetings at Notre Dame, where doctors, lawyers, nurses, social workers, parents, clergymen, et cetera would meet to discuss how the number of abortions can be reduced? And if it worked here, why couldn't it work in other communities? 
To do this, we would first have to believe that pro-choice partisans are honest when they tell us no woman really wants an abortion. As pro-lifers, we would have to commit ourselves to being civil to them, come hell and high water. 
If some of them happened to be Catholic, we would be wise not to tell them about the Church's bell. book and candle which could leave them excommunicated. We should remember it is not our partisan differences that we should be concerned . about, but the women whose circumstances make childbearing seem like an overwhelming, unbearable tragedy. 
Notre Dame students are en­gaged in a successful project called Dismas House, which is run as a half-way hospice for offenders who have served jail terms. Could the Center for Social Concerns set up houses in which students, live-in or otherwise, could care for preg­nant women in some loving way, even if it's only looking after the siblings of the unborn, while their mothers work? 
One thing which should give a woman hope, if she's in trouble, is to know that caring love is available from a community of caring students who want her to have her baby, free of fear. Who in the world could be more loving and non-judgmental than students? 
I'm no Ross Perot. If I were, I would try to organize meetings and set up shelters myself. I do believe it is better to light one candle by trying to inspire others than it would have been to vote for four more years of voodoo economics. 
Ross Perot kept telling us: "They told me these things couldn't be done, and so I did it to show th_em how. But as long as we're in gridlock, we can't go anywhere." 
Must Christians remain para­lyzed by gridlock over abor­tions? Must pro-lifers and pro­choicers stand eyeball to eye­ball, waiting for the other fel­lows to blink? 
foot by the way they have looked at babies born, as the old phrase used to have it, on the wrong side of the blanket. I will not mention how quick church members have been to cast stones, or their willingness to give Hester Prynne her scarlet letter. 
If the churches hadn't been so quick to punish the unmarried mother and the child she bore, then latter-day Christians would be believed now when they claim to be heirs to a tradition which welcomes each chHd as though that child were the Messiah. 
Ross Perot has become an American folk hero because of the way he helped us keep our eye on the ball during the de­bates. "We have a four trillion dollar deficit," he kept saying, "on which we are paying a bil­lion dollars' interest every day. If we keep this up, what will be left for our children and grand­children of the American Dream?" 
The Catholic Church needs a prophet as clear-eyed as Perot to rescue the Church and the country which are bankrupting themselves spiritually because the country is so wasteful with unborn life. The abortion crisis is our equivalent of the four trillion dollar deficit. 
As Christians and Americans. 
we are grid-locked as pro­
choicers and pro-lifers. All we 
can know for sure about human 
sexuality is that we have 
poisoned the well. 
I want to believe that a 
woman has a right to control 
her own body. Then I hear of 
school-girls using abortion as a 
primary means of contracep­
tion, and I wonder who is talk­
ing to them. The fear is that 
these girls have become cannon 
fodder in a battle allegedly for 
human rights that the feminists .are waging. 
I hate to hear women who 
seek abortions called 
murderers. I hate the 
harassment they receive from 
the right-to-life zealots. 
Whether Wade vs. Roe prevails 
or is struck down, I fear the 
ugliness which is dividing the 
country the way slavery did. 
Where is the Ross Perot who 
can tell Catholics not only 
where the ball is, but also what 
it looks like? Somewhere along 
the line, we need to find out 
who we are as American 
Catholics. 
The lad is entitled to believe 
what he wants to believe. He's 
not entitled to think that 
promiscuity as a lifestyle 
deserves any respect in a 

Friday, November 6, 1992 
The Observer page 19 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College r. Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
.................••...•.•.•...........
BRIDGET'S IS HIRING MATURE Gerber fat typical.NOTICES I BOUNCERS. 271-0373 FOR APPT. •••PENN*PENWPENN*PENN*** Gerber--<:hicks-yeah. whatever. ••TICKETS.TICKETS *TICKETS .. NEED LOTS OF PENN Gerber-study-only after a nap. ST. GA'S-CALL TOM Gerber-Newbuweepwot-nuf sa1d.
L.!~-0-~N-T-10-N:______, I FOR RENT I 
I X:3343 Gerber-operate?-not on me! NEED Gerber-beer-beaucoup.
For more information and ..•......••...•....••.•••.•..•........
For rent: 1 room available -use of 4 NEED Gerber-drunk-sloppy.assistance regarding the all facilities-clean & safe PENN STATE Gerber-bwoxer-lethal. investigation of financing, business neighborhood -close to campus -Boston College
GA'S NEED 1 STUD. TIC FOR BC opportunities and work-at-home $200 a month. Ask for Paul 232--Neitzsche...
GAME. CALL DAVE 1644. opportunities, THE OBSERVER 2794. 
CALL JEANNE AT 283-2645 GA's (Belin-YUT!-Ch-Oustanding!urges its readers to contact the 
•••1 NEED 2 PENN STATE TIX, I didn't want you to feel left out!) 
Better Business Bureau of BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ***PENN*PENN"PENN*PENN••• STUD. OR GA's:·· Cara X4045. Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 219-291-7153 **TICKETS.TICKETS.TICKETs·• NO Swimmers and Divers: Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
Call Jeanne $$$$ MONEY-MONEY $$$$ Good Luck this weekend! 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-2 room efficiency utilities paid $7 a LOTS-0-MONEY Beat Bowling Green!! 9121 or 800-439-5313. day 2880955 atx2645 GO IRISH! 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!!!!!! THAT'S WHAT I'LL PAY 2--4 STUDENT TIX FOR PENN FOR YOUR BC GA'S 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 Need to sublet STATE! call TOM 289-8735 Medusa and Co.-1 000 pardons trtle crk apt My friends are poor but If you are $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ from the drunken letch. Call Damien x1870 nice and aren't planning on going 
TYPING they would appreciate your help. need B.C. GA'S !!! Happy 21st Birthday David. See you 287-4082 Call JON X3592. The people who pay my tuition Please call TIM at x1006 at ''the mother of all tailgaters"love For Sale need 4 GAs for B.C. Mom & Dad. DOES YOUR GROUP NEED TO 
I NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL WALLY call Rich 233-9279 NEED 3 BC GAs RENT A PA SYSTEM? CALL 1516 Oakhill Condo -2BRs, 2 X3443 Call Lyn 283-4551 I NEED BC TIX!!!!!!!! CALL MIKE AT CLIFF FOR INFO X3283 Baths, 1170 sq. ft., fireplace, WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR NO -289-5563 
' ---------------------skylight, spiral staircase to loft'den. NEED GAs, Penn St. BC BC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE @ NEED 4 PSU GA'S ACOUSTIC CAFE 1 car garage. Walk to ND $77,500. x3593 287-4561. SET YOUR PRICE!! SMILE QUEEN MAUREEN!!! ACOUSTIC CAFE Coldwell Banker 277-8000. CALL JEFF X1244 
DALLOWAY'S COFFEEHOUSE Ruth Ann Smith 288-8875. BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC PLEASE HELP, NEED B.C. To the STUDS of Flanner 1 0 B: AT ST. MARY'S CLUBHOUSE Need BC Ticket -Stud or GA TICKETS. CALL 1573 NEED P.S.U. TIX The Robert Palmer Girls would 
SAT NIGHT 9-12PM IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: Call Greg at 3451 BOB 3398 like to thank you for a GREAT ACOUSTIC CAFE $2 EACH. BCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBCBC TRADE YOUR TICKETS TO THE Halloween! Hope all the lipstick ACOUSTIC CAFE WANTED: COMPUTERS. FREEZING-COLD OUTDOOR % $$ % came out! 
1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. INEEDGNSFORBCANDPENN PENN STATE GAME TO ME FOR I NEED ONE STUD. TICK. FOR Love 
WordWorks Typing Service 287-7550. ST. !!!! CALL AARON@ 271-2908 DRINKING MONEY SO YOU CAN BC. CALLMARC@X1128 LICK Term papers, dissertations, theses ENJOY THE WARMTH OF THE NOW!!!!! PS No more card games!!!! 277-7406 1 week 12 person FLORIDA Have 2 Penn st. Ga's GAME IN THE COMFORT OF 
need 4 g.a's together and 5 YOUR FAVORITE BAR STOOL I NEED BC TIX !!!!!!CALL MIKE AT ZAHM 1A: You heard it wrong­students for B.C. CALL RICH AT x1005 289-5563 Nick got dicked by a SMC!!
ILOST & FOUND I I.__F_O_R_S_AL_E____, 
Need 8 penn st. Students 
call mike at 273-2233 I need BC tix badly! SHORT ON CASH ? Lost: 35mm V1vitar camera travel credits. Phone John x2763 PERSONAL somewhere between D2 and Sarin. 259-0324. NEED: BC AND PENN STATE Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN 
If found, please call x2690. TICKETS. CALL BONNIE X4653 Need 4 Penn State Tix ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. Mon.-Fri. : 11:30-12:30 
CHEAP return ticket to San Call Tom X3423 family can provide financial security, 1st Floor LaFortune LOST: Blue 3.5" floppy disk wallet Francisco out of Chicago-OHare, NEED 1 BC GA-JOHN X3648 excellent education and wonderful O'Hara Lounge Possibly left in Fitzpatrick cluster 20 to 24 Nov. I need as many future for your baby. Please let us Call Jeff x2271 Call289-7114 after 7. Need many GA's for BC •• PENN STATE TICKETS•• help you in this difficult time. 30 day loans up to $250 These disks hold my homework!! as you have!! Confidential and legal. Medical @ 1% interest 
CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for Please call Whitney at x2666 ..call Tara #4766•• expenses paid. Collect anytime . LOST: Silver earring; two linked sale!!! Call to see samples...273-(818) 246-1763 MARGE quarter-size circles with engraved 2967. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I am in desperate need of 2 Penn design on each. Lost on Saturday, Will pay BIG BUCK$ for your BC State GAs. EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY !! ! ! ! ! ' !! ! ! Oct. 31 somewhere on North Quad. Apple 12" Color RGB monitor for GA's! Call Jim x3367 Jim x4110 at The Copy Shop in LaFortune 
Hobbes is still not 21, too bad
If found, please call 289-6485. Mac $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SAVE 20% off copies some day you'll drink with us
Only 9 mo. old w/warranty on our resume paper 
! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
1!!!Warm red Eddie Bauer jacket $310 or b/o I need 2 GA's for the Penn State ONLY YOU CAN HELP ME! missing!!!! If found please call me at Call (908) 382-8253 & ask for Jeff game so badly, it's ridiculous. Call I NEED 2 PENN STATE G.A.S PAWN BUY SELL TRADE 
DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll
x2535.. .1 am very cold!!!! Mark at 4063 and take financial CALL PETE AT 273-1962 love this 3rd grade boy who needs 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call advantage! OZARK TRADING POST 
tutor. Call me collect in NY for more
Lost: Rita Delivery on Campus 1530 WESTERN AVE. 
info @ 718-325-9642 or esc.
Gold ring with five multi-colored 234-6524 Help! I need a BC GA or stud tix! NEED 2 BC GA'S. 287-7550 stones. It was a gift from my late call Beth 3724 CALL CHRIS 1-419-882-7208. 
DIET MAGIC! 30 lbs. 30 days. $30. 
grandfather before I came to ND. Cheap trip to southern vactionland! CUT INTERRUPTIONS! GET THE Call (616)471-3970
More sentimental value than I have 2 B.C. GA's 289-6052 need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648 WORD OUT! Hotlines for faculty, monitary worth ...REWARD!!!! Selling a plane ticket to North student groups, teams. event­
JIM GOETZ-
Carolina over Thanksgiving Break. NEED 1 PENN STATE GA I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn sponsors only $10 month. Callers 
The women at Mints say: 
• I beg of you ... Look for my ring • You name the price. call Kim 1511 State Ticket. Either Student or GA. hear latest info. Local exchange. 
"Smile, you're not the one who has 
• Lost in the JACC arena area • Call DAVE at 283-3662. Please call Chris x4511 Remote updating. Limited number to work!!!"
• I am unable to study wlo it ! ! NEED many STUD B.C. TIX available. Call277-8260, Ext. 22. 
-Drew
-call Bill -at 11 04 If found please call Sue X2494 !! Need 2 BC GA's: WHAT MAKES YOU SO SPECIAL? 
**Spring Break!** Bahamas Cruise 
Call anytime! (Shaw will be will pay $$$$ or trade 2 PENN GA. Need BC Tix I NEED ANY PENN STATE Every year, $6 billion in college aid (+10 Meals) $279! 
annoyed if you call too early, but I CALL AGNES 273-9376 Gary x1624 TICKETS! GA's or Student goes unclaimed. You qualify for Panama City with kitchen $119 can handle her!!!) Call Rich x3367 some of it. For $39.95, I guarantee Cancun $429! Jamaica $479!
STD TIX BC & PS X1803 Help ME! The Junkman needs BC to find at least 25 potential aid 
Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest
GA's. Please call John at x2174. sources based on your
WANTED $249! Prices increase 12/11 /92!
PLANE TICKET TO USC qualifications. Group discounts. 
1-800-678-6386
Leaves morning11126-Returns Desperately need B.C. GA's. Need two BC GA's, call Podge, Call 277-8260, Ext. 23. EASY WORK! EXCELLENT PAYI morning 12/1 Please call Beth at x2577. x4782 
You know who you are-
ASSEMBLE PRODUCTS AT CHEAP!!!!! x3860 ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. 
1 hope I do not offend you (if I have 
HOME. CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-I'll throw in a game ticket, too!!!! TICKETS NEEDED-Penn St GA's­NEED 2 BC GA'S family can provide financial security, please tell me) You are a genuinely
467-6226 EXT 6840. Dan#1852-$$4U -STEVE #2054-excellent education and wonderful nice guy. Congrats on your need future for your baby. Confidential not to worry anymore! I hope weNEEDED: TUTOR for 3rd grade TICKETS ################### I really really really REALLY need 2 and legal. Expenses paid. Call can be friends one day. If you 
boy in SB. I tutored him last year NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS BC and 2 Penn State tickets. Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) agree please respond. 
but I graduated. Please call me I NEED 2 BC STUD TIX AND 1 STUD. Please please please please call 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­collect in NY for more info Mike JASON X1746 CALL MURPH X:3451 Monica @283-4033 and leave 5535. 
HAPPY 20TH CINDY!
Ferguson 718-325-9642 or cal! CSC ################### message with number, price, etc. 
YOU'RE A GREAT ROOMMATE. 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 
HAVE A FUN DAY!
I NEED PSU TIX: GAISTU CALL CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 Need Penn St. and B.C. NEED 2 PENN ST-GA OR STUD. Information on semester. year, LOVE YA! 
AL: 273-8382 tickets call x4907: leave price and pho# graduate, summer and internship MELISSA
I NEED ND FOOTBALL Call Jon or Greg X4239 programs in Australia. We represent NEED A RIDE FOR 2 TO TICKETS.272-6306 Have 2 BC GAs. Call Maria @ 4036 28 Australian Universities. Call us ••••••••••••••••• ****** MINNESOTA FOR I need two Boston College GA's. wl best offer. toll free 1-800-245-2575. 
Top 10 ways to wish Phil Tomsik a
THANKSGIVING. WILL PAY GAS. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Jim@ 289-1989 happy 21st birthday: 
CALL MOLLY x4121. PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston Need Penn St. GA Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip College GAs or student tix. Call Jill I need one Penn State GA for my Tony x1786 To Bahamas or Panama City! 
1 O.Brush the wig. It's in pitiful 
***********•WANTED************** @ x4758 or x4721. little brother who is a high school Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! 
shape.
Ride to Scranton, PA or any where $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ sophmore. Need Penn St Ga's Sign-Up Before 12/11/92! 
9. Attempt to make the hiss-face, 
along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Call Jim@ 289-1989. Bill x1594 Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386. 
then watch him do it back at you. 
Will help with gas, tolls and driving. Need One Ticket For Boston 8. Dress Topher up in a tux and take Flexible in departure and return College!!! Call273-2967!!! Have 2 BC GAs. Call anytime Fri. Will trade 2 50yd line USC tix for 2 MEN AND WOMEN a little trip to the Lodge. 
times. CALL JILL@ X4758 until7 p.m. 271-5618 PSU GA's. Call John 277-5415 7. Send him a singing telegram from 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE 
musical idol Neil Diamond.
TUTOR NEEDED for Physics 221 I must have B.C. tickets! Either 2 BC TIX FOR SALE NEED BC TIC 6. Sing him "Happy Birthday" student. If interested, call Nicole Student or G.A.'s. My cousin and SEATS TOGETHER. #4459 CALL TIM 4441 For more info, call COSIMO'S through the cone. 
x4530 to discuss times. pay, etc. his buddies are coming in from 277-1875. 
5. Sing him "Non Pepe le Piu" 
Please help me out!!! B.C. to watch their team get BC tics needed Mike 1749 Help! 
through the cone.
slaughtered! Please help me out! I must have 3 BC GAs, or 2 GAs Gutch and Socko, 4. Farley.
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND OR I'M DESPERATE!!!!!! X4990 I have money. You have a Penn St and 1 STU. Please Call X1234. Ciao Belli! Buongiorno da Roma. 
3. Tell him it's naptim&-all day.
COLUMBUS NOV20-21. WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ student ticket or GA. Let's make a Help! Two lonely Italian chicks longing for (QUIET HOURS!) 
4 GAS CALL RYAN X1605 deal. Call Steve at X3407. two blond haired, blue eyed 2. Whatever you do, DON'T invite 
I NEED 3 BC GA'S AND 1 PENN Boston GAs 4 sale American guys for fun after Dec. 19. 
Kirk to his party. No. Never. Never.
ATIN. STUDENTS: AMERITECH ST GA, PRETTY PLEASE WITH A Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 271 1514 We miss and love you! 
1. Promise to be his own personal
INFORMATION SGS IS LOOKING CHERRY ON TOP. 1-800-922-BEAR. Nora & Jennifer Desiree. :-)
FOR TWO GROUPS OF MIKE X2209 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ STUDENTS TO ASSIST WITH THE GO ND SWIM !!!
** * *•••••**.* * *.**.******.********* * 
COMMUNICATIONS NEED 1 0 PENN ST GAs I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S/STUDS 
FRESNO,
CONVERSION -HERE ON BIG TIME CALL PAT x2071 CALL MIKE X:3343 BOZOS AND OZONE PEOPLE: What would Notre Dame be without 
CAMPUS, DAYS AND/OR I NEED 1 BC GA. Buy my round trip wkend COMAIR 
you.
EVENINGS. APPROXIMATE DAVE, x4506 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ use by 12/15 call 273-8463 DATES: GROUP I, DEC. 15-24; SELL ME YOUR PENN STATE GROUP 2, DEC. 15-JAN. 11. G.A.'s AND YOU CAN BE A PART Need B.C. tix, student or GA's
*** * *.***** •••••• *.** **** * **.**.* * *. To the Skoal, HO Road, Queens of 
PLEASE SEND NAME, ADDRESS, OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST Call Mike at x1084 Do you prefer cookie dough, Polaroid, thanks for the good times. 
PH.# AND GROUP TAILGATERS IN N.D. FOOTBALL California ALUM desperate for Penn instead? 
DOOGS
PREFERENCE TO: C. CRAFT HISTORY! State GAs Top $. Pis lv mess. (( I need Penn State G.A.'s IBC, BRONSON HALL, AM. 203 CALL RICH AT x1005 (415)597-2319 Call Brian at x1771 hi fred, zack, and noah 
I HATE YOU, EL SHAMPOO! 

j 1 
l 
j 
) 
The Observer 
GA  Home  Away  Dlv  
45  7­ 0-1  4­ 1·1  3­ 0·1  
45  7­ 1-1  2·  3-0  6­ 2·0  
43  4­ 3-0  3­ 2·0  5­ 4-0  
47  3­ 2·0  3­ 5·1  5­ 5-0  
45  3­ 3-0  2·  5-0  Q.  5·0  
63  2·  2-1  1­ 6·2  2·  5-1  
48  6­ 0-1  3­ 3-1  1­ 2·0  
36  4­ 1-1  4­ 1-0  3­ 0-0  
47  4­ 1·0  3­ 3·2  2­ 1·1  
46  5­ 1-0  1­ 3·2  3­ 1-1  
50  1­ 5-1  2·  3-0  2·  3-1  
66  1­ 3-1  ().  7-0  1­ 5-1  

GA Home Away Div 45 4-1-1 3-4·0 4· 1·0 48 4-2-0 3-4-0 2-2-0 42 5-2-1 1· 3-1 4-3-0 47 3-2-3 2· 4-0 3-2-1 64 4-4·1 1· 4-0 1-6-0 47 4-3·0 1-5-1 3-3-1 
43 5-3-0 4-1-1 6-2-1 46 4· 1·0 3-3-1 4-2-0 42 3-2·1 2· 3-1 4-1-1 56 3-3·1 1· 5·0 Q. 5·0 54 4-2·0 (). 7-0 2-5-0 
,_
56 1-3-0 6-1 1-2-0 
Wednesday's Games Montreal4. Detroit 3 New York Rangers 3, Philadelphia 1 Calgary 5, Vancouver 5. tie 
Thursday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Boston 6, Quebec 4 Prttsburgh 8. St. Louis 4 Minnesota 3, New York Islanders 0 Chicago 1, Toronto 0 Ottawa at Calgary (n) Buffalo at San Jose (n) New Jersey at Los Angeles (n) 
Friday's Games Hartford at Detroit, 7:40 p.m. Tampa Bay at Washington. 8:10p.m. Edmonton at Winnipeg, 8:40p.m. Ottawa al Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. 
Saturday's Games St. Louis at Philadelphia, 1:10 p.m. Chicago at Quebec, 2:10p.m. New York Rangers at Boston, 7:10p.m. Tampa Bay at New York Islanders. 7:40p.m. Washington at Hartford. 7:40p.m. Detroit at Montreal, 8:10p.m. PittSburgh at Toronto, 8:10p.m. Edmonton at Minnesota. 8:10p.m. Buffalo at Los Angeles. 10:40 p.m. New Jersey at San Jose. 10:40 p.m. 
Sunday's Gamea Calgary at Quebec, 2:10p.m. Prttsburgh at Chicago, 8:40p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:10 p.m. Los Angeles at San Jose. 10:40 p.m. 
Friday, November 6, 1992 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SWIMMING Bowling Green 
6:00 p.m. Rolf's Aquatic Center WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL at Dayton 7:30p.m. HOCKEY at Miami (Ohio) 7:00p.m. 
FOOTBALL -··"·.,.,,.,! Boston College 
1:35 p.m. Notre Dame Stadium WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL at Xavier 4:00p.m. HOCKEY at Miami (Ohio) 7:00p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS · 
BASEBALL American League OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Placed Carney Lans­lord, third baseman, on the voluntary retired list. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms with Cito Gaston. manager, on a three-year contract extension through the 1995 season. BASKETBALL National Baeketbsll Asaoclatlon 
BOSTON CEL TICS-Placed Kenny Battle and Marcus Webb, forwards. on the injured list. CHICAGO BULLS-Waived Jo Jo English and Gerald Madkins, guards. 
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Placed Jerome Lane, forward, and Jay Guidinger, center. on the injured list. 
DENVER NUGGETS-Waived Winston Garland. guard. Placed Anthony Cook and Gary Plummer, forwards, on the injured list. 
GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Waived Tom Tolbert, forward. Placed Sarunas Marciulionis, guard. on the injured list. 
INDIANA PACERS-Placed Sean Green. guard. on the injured list. 
LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Piaced Magic John­son, guard, on the voluntarily retired list. Waived Sean Higgins. guard-forward, Placed Jack Haley, and Rene Ferran, centers, on the injured list. 
MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Placed Moses Malone, center, and Sam Vincent. guard, on the injured list. 
FOUND 

IDENTIFIED AS DON REESE 
For more information and a close up look at him, purchase your tickets to see him perform at Washington Hall on November 6th at 8:00p.m. General Admission Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk for only $3. 
F ) ) 
; 
' 
I 
' 
.....
/I 
~ 
j 
l 
.. 
NFL Injury Repon 
NEW YORK (AP) -The National Football 
League injury report for this week's games as 
provided by the league: 
Sunday 
CLEVELAND AT HOUSTON -Browns: T 
Tony Jones (ankle), G John Rienstra (shoulder), 
WR Lawyer Tillman (ribs) are questionable. 
Oilers: DT Doug Smith (hamstring) is 
questionable; LB Joe Bowden (ankle), QB Warren 
Moon (concussion) are probable. 
MIAMI AT INDIANAPOliS -Dolphins: LB 
John Of1erdahl (abdomen) is doubtful; DE Jell 
Cross (ankle), NT Chuck Klingbeil (knee) are 
questionable; LB Dwight Hollier (knee), T 
Richmond Webb (knee) are probable. Colts: LB 
Jell Herrod (shoulder), G Ron Solt (shoulder) are 
questionable; G Randy Dixon (head), DE Jon Hand 
(knee-ankle), T Zefross Moss (ankle), T BiH Schultz 
(ankle) are probable. 
NEW YORK JETS AT DENVER-Jets: G 
Dave Cadigan (ankle), T Jeff Criswell (knee). CB­
KR Erik McMillan (abdomen). RB Freeman McNeil 
(quadricep), QB Browning Nagle (foot), QB Ken 
O'Brien (thumb), RB Blair Thomas (groin) are 
probable. Broncos: DE Brian Sochia (knee) is 
doubtful. 
PITTSBURGH AT BUFFALO -Steelers: 
LB Jerry Olsavsky (loot) is out. T Tunch llkin (back) 
is doubtful; S Larry Griffin (foot). WR Dwight Stone 
(knee) are questionable; CB D.J. Johnson (knee) is 
probable. Bills: G-T Glenn Parker (knee) is 
doubtful; LB Carlton Bailey (groin). LB Shane 
Conlan (ankle). T Mitch Frerotte (groin). TE Pete 
Metzelaars (back) are questionable; LB Darryl 
Talley (ankle), RB Thurman Thomas (elbow) are 
probable. 
SAN DIEGO AT KANSAS CITY ­Chargers: RB Eric Bieniemy (ankle) is questionable. QB Stan Humphries (knee). G Eric Moten (knee). DE Leslie O'neal (knee), LB Junior Seau (groin), DT Blaise Winter (knee) are probable. Chiefs: LB Tracy Simien (shoulder). RB Barry Word (ankle) are questionable; CB Albert Lewis (ribs), LB Chris Martin (knee) are probable. 
DALLAS AT DETROIT -Cowboys: DE Tony Hill (hamstring) is out; LB Godfrey Myles (hamstring) is questionable. Lions: WR Aubrey Matthews (eye) is out. LB Toby Caston {elbow) is doubtful; S William Wh~e (ankle). CB Kevin Scott (hamstring). CB Ray Crockett (ankle), T Scott Conover (ankle), LB Michael Coler (neck) are questionable. 
GREEN BAY AT NEW YORK GIANTS ­Packers: G Rich Moran (knee-injured resel\le), CB Dave McCloughan (foot-injured reserve) are out; RB Darrell Thompson (quadricep), LB Brian Noble (back) are questionable; CB Vinnie Clark (leg). LB Tony Bennett (caff) are probable. Giants: WR Mark Ingram (knee-injured resel\le) is out; DE Leonard Marshall (knee). CB-S Reyna Thompson (ankle), LB Car1 Banks (hip) are probable. 
MINNESOTA AT TAMPA BAY -Vikings: LB Ray Berry (thigh) is questionable; NT Henry Thomas (shoulder), DE AI Noga (knee) are probable. Buccaneers: WR Mark Carrier (knee), WR Lawrence Dawsey (ankle). LB Calvin Tiggle (ankle) are questionable. 
NHL STANDINGS  
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Divielon  
w  L  T  Pte  GF  
Pittsburgh  11  1  2  24  75  
NV Rangers  9  4  1  19  57  
New Jersey  7  5  0  14  42  
NV Islanders  6  7  1  13  46  
Washington  5  8  0  10  40  
Philadelphia  3  8  3  9  52  
Adams Divialon  
Montreal  9  3  2  20  61  
Boston  8  2  1  17  57  
Quebec  7  4  2  16  58  
Buf1alo  6  4  2  14  64  
Hartford  3  8  7  33  
Ottawa  1  10  3  27  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Norrie  Division  
w  L  T  Pta  GF  
Mmnesota  7  5  1  15  46  
Detroit  7  6  0  14  52  
Toronto  6  5  2  14  43  
Chicago  5  6  3  13  47  
St. Louis  5  8  1  11  51  
Tampa Bay  5  8  1  11  49  
Smythe Division  
Calgary  9  4  19  59  
Los Angeles  7  4  1  15  51  
Vancouver  5  5  2  12  47  
Edmonton  4  8  1  9  38  
Winnipeg  4  9  0  8  45  
San Jose  2  9  1  5  31  


PHOENIX AT LOS ANGELES RAMS -Cardinale: T Rick Cunningham (arm) is out; C B1ll Lewis (hamstring), G Mark May (chest), T LUis Sharpe (calf) are questionable; LB David Braxton (shoulder), G Lance Smith (elbow) are probable. Rama: WR Willie Anderson (anKle), WR Aaron Cox (leg) are questionable. 
LOS ANGELES RAIDERS AT PHILADELPHIA -Raiders: DT Chester McGiockton (foot) is probable. Eagles: T Ron Heller (arch) is questionable. 
NEW ORLEANS AT NEW ENGLAND ­Saints: LB Rickey Jackson (thumb), DE Wayne Martin (finger). CB Jimmy Spencer (thigh) are probable. Patriots: QB Hugh Millen (shoulder). T BrucE> Armstrong (knee-injured reserve) are out; DE Ray Agnew (elboW) is doubtful; TE Ben Coates (ankle-hip), G Reggie Redding (ankle), LB Johnny Rerrbert (foot). S Randy Robbins (loot), LB Chris Singleton (groin). LB Andre Tippett (groin) are questionable. 
WASHNGTON AT SEATTLE -Redskins: LB Monte Coleman (neck) is doubtful; LB Kurt Gouveia (neck), G Joe Jacoby (neck) are probable. 
Seahawkl: DE Tony Woods (hamstring) is doubtful; T Ronnie Lee (knee) is questionable: WR Doug Thomas (toe) is probable. 
CINCINNATI AT CHICAGO -Bengals: CX: Alonzo Mitz (thigh), T Joe Walter (hamstring) are probable. Beara: DE Trace Armstrong (knee). WR Wendell Davis (ankle) are questionable; T Keith Van Horne (ankle), T Troy Auzenne (shoulder) are 
probable. 

MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES-Piaced Reggie Fox, guard, and Marion Maxey. forward. on the in­JUred list. 
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Waived Brian Oliver. guard. Placed Manute Bol, center, on the InJUred list. 
PHOENIX SUNS-Waived Ed Nealy, forward. Placed Kev10 Johnson. guard, and Jerrod Musial. lorward, on the injured list. Re-signed Frank John­son, guard. Global Basketball Association 
JACKSON JAMMERS-Released the rights to Bobby Kenyon. guard. MID-MICHIGAN GREAT LAKES-Released the rights to Jimmy McClain, guard. 
MISSISSIPPI COAST SHARKS-Released the rights to Jim Havrilla. center; Ron Huery. forward; and Daron Jenkins, guard. FOOTBALL National Football League 
DENVER BRONCOS-Added John Granby, safety, to the active roster. Placed Cedric Tillman. wide receiver. on waiVers. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
NHL-Suspend_ed New York Rangers center Doug Weight four clays without pay and fined him $500 lor cross-checking Philadelphia Flyers de­lenseman Garry Galley on Nov. 4. 
UNIVERSITY RESUME SERVICE Rlsumis!Technicai/Creah"ve Writing The closest anyone ever comes to perfection is when we write their resume. 277.. 1700 located off,campus in Granger at University Gardens  
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents Tmo concms commemorating thr fiur-hundrrdth anniurrsary of his drath in 11g2 )lomrrinm :M:usicr.s (nnn }!ork, n Y) Alexander Blachly, director Sunday, 8 November 1992 8:15pm Thr Orlendo Qonsott (London, (3nglend) Tuesday, 10 Novembcr 1992 8:00pm Basilica of che Sacred Hearc Both roncerts are free and open to the general pt& Presented in conjunction with the NEl-l conference Continuities and Transformations in Musical Culture, 1450·1500: Assessing the Legacy of Antoine Busnoys 8 • 1 1 N o v e m h e r 1 9 9 2 and made p<l§Sible with funds from the Alice Tully Endowment for the F~ Arts d the University of Notre Dame  

Friday, November 6, 1992 The Observer page 21 
...! 
Camacho arrested on drug charges 

MIAMI (AP) -Yelling "I'm the Macho Man!" in a hotel lobby, three-time world champion boxer Hector Camacho was arrested early Thursday for allegedly fighting with two police officers who tried to quiet him. 
The former WBC super feath­erweight and lightweight champion appeared intoxicated and was carrying a small bag of what appeared to be mari­juana, police said. 
The incident occurred at the Miami International Airport Hilton Hotel. When police ap­proached Camacho, he ran out of the lobby into a parking area. 
"If you want what's in my hand, you're going to have to catch me," police quoted Ca­macho as telling the officers. 
Wearing a T-shirt bearing his nickname, "Macho," Camacho allegedly fought with the offi­
,.... 
cers as they subdued him. Later he kicked one of the officers while being booked into the Dade County Jail, according to police. 
One of the officers suffered a knee injury that required a soft cast, and the other was treated for cuts and bruises. 
The 140-pound fighter was arrested for marijuana posses­sion, disorderly intoxication and three counts of battery on a police officer. The substance he was carrying will be tested to determine whether it was mari­juana. 
Camacho, 30, was released on $16,000 bond. His Miami at­torney, Bill Tunkey, said the in­cident stemmed from "mistaken impressions." 
"Mr. Camacho is an excitable person who has a demonstra­tive personality," Tunkey said. "If you don't know him, I sus­
.., 
pect you may take from his ges­
tures and movements the idea 
that there is some threat in it, 
when in fact there is none at 
all. I think he was maybe in a 
boisterous mood and may have 
offended the sensibilities of 
some police officers." 
At one time Camacho held the WBC super featherweight and lightweight titles, as well as the WBO junior welterweight championship. In September, he lost a unanimous decision to WBC super welterweight champion Julio Cesar Chavez. Now 40-2 with 18 knockouts, he has no fights scheduled. 
Camacho has had at least two other brushes with the law in Florida. In 1988, he was ar­rested on cocaine and assault charges at Clewistown High School after allegedly pulling a gun on a juvenile. He received three years' probation and was fined $1,500 after pleading no contest to cocaine possession. 
Camacho was arrested a year ago on a charge of driving with a suspended license after being stopped for driving too slowly on an interstate highway near Fort Myers. A state trooper said Camacho had a woman on his lap and was trying to do "the wild thing." 
TAKE THE KEYS. CALLA CAB. TAKE A STAND. 

DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE. 

BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 
proudly presents its annual variety and talent shovv 
BLACK IMAGES  
BURN, HOLLYWOOD, BURN  
Saturday, November 7th, 1992  . 1n  
Washington Ha II at 7:00pm  
EXPLICIT L.Af'<JGUAGE WILL BE USED  
Admission:  
$3.00 show  
must present ticket stub at door  


THE 
~O~UUE PA.ilt.o 
Featuring ~ 
\.
Beef, Chicken, Seafood and 
Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
And Our Famous Flaming Chocolate Dessert 
Welcome ND Parents! Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex, Mishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. S-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Appredated 


Friday, November 6, 1992 
weather worsens this year. The back Matt Rodgers for ninth on senior needs 49 passing yards the Big Ten's career passing to pass former Iowa quarter-list. 

Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 -'94 school year Call 232 -8256 for info 
%e Country :f{arvester introtfuces ... 
I9(JSJ{ o/ILLYL(j'E £Begin your campus co[[ection now with wood rep ficas of:A{ptre 'Dame 's Yl.dministration 13ui[ding and SacredJ-feart 13asi{ica. :A(pw taf(jng oraers for tlie fJ..[1J Staaium and91es6urgfi Li6rary. 

f£JLc[usive[y avai[a6[e at rrlie Country J{arvester La:JortuneStudent Center Lozoer Leve[239·6i14 
Licr.nsul prorfucts oftiu 'University oj'lt{otrr. 'Da-. 

ATLANTA (AP) -It was just over a year ago that Georgia's Garrison Hearst first found himself in "the zone." 
He's been in it so often this season that he's become one of the leading contenders for the 1992 Heisman Trophy. 
It started against Kentucky in 1991 when he raced 32 yards to score one of his two touch­downs in a 158-yard perfor­mance. 
"Mter that run I just got this feeling," he said. "It was really different. Weird. Something I'd never felt before. After that I started getting the same feeling a lot." 
He was in a groove, some­thing he decided to label the zone. 
"When I'm in the zone, I just feel really confident," he said. "Unstoppable. Like there's no hole I can't get through." 
He isn't the only one to have noticed. 
"Garrison Hearst gets through holes 99 percent of the guys in the country wouldn't think of getting through," said Dick Vermeil, the television analyst who coached the Philadelphia Eagles and UCLA. 
Hearst has spent most of the season ahead of the rushing pace set by former Bulldog Herschel Walker when he won the Heisman a decade ago. 
The current Bulldog star fell behind that pace last Saturday when he gained only 41 yards on 14 carries in Florida's 26-24 upset of Georgia. 
Through his first nine games, j/ Hearst has gained 1,273 yards 
I 
j) 
)J ;--4 
1 ~~ rNick's 
),l 
11
)I
Jj
r 
!l 

; 
. 
i. 

page 22 The Observer 
lllini: Which Purdue squad will show? 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -The build on the performance passes for 209 yards against Illinois football team knows against Illinois. Michigan, and his favorite tar­Purdue will visit Memorial Sta­"We've made some progress get is wideout Ernest Calloway, dium for a Big Ten Conference over the past year," he said. who has 321 yards receiving on game Saturday afternoon. "We played a team (Michigan) 20 catches. Tailback Arlee 
What the Illinois team doesn't nose-to-nose that beat us 42-0 Connors is Purdue's top rusher know is which team will show a year ago. But we still have with 536 yards. up: The one that lost 28-14 to three hard games to play, and Defensively, the Boilers are Northwestern on Oct. 3 or the I'm sure our opponents think anchored by Outland Trophy one that beat Iowa 27-16 Oct. they can beat us, and we think candidate noseguard Jeff Zgo­24 and nearly upset No. 4 we can beat them." nina and linebacker Eric Beatty, Michigan last week, taking a Three Boilermakers have who leads the Big Ten with 125 17-7 halftime lead before losing seen extensive time at quarter­tackles. 24-17. back this season, with Scott 
"I watched their Northwest­Hoffman, Matt Pike and Hunter They'll be up against an Illi­ern game, and you'd think from each having over 20 pass at­nois offense that has struggled that film that this was a team tempts. all season and did so again in you could beat," said Illinois But with his recent showings, last week's 13-12 comeback win coach Lou Tepper, whose team Hunter is expected to start over Wisconsin. is 4-4 overall and 2-3 in the Big aga:inst the Illini. Ten. Illinois, which has won eight The Illini are last in the 
"Against Iowa, they only of the past 10 meetings, has league in total offense at 297.8 threw the ball seven times and given up just two offensive yards per game, and no Illini (quarterback) Eric Hunter did touchdowns to Purdue the last ranks in the league's top 10 in not make mistakes." 20 quarters. One was a touch­rushing or receiving. 
Purdue coach Jim Colletto down pass by Hunter in Illinois' said he was proud of his team 41-14 win at West Lafayette, Tepper said it will be even against Michigan and hopes the Ind., last year. harder for quarterback Jason Boilermakers, 3-5 and 2-3. can Hunter completed 11 of 22 Verduzco to throw as the 
Georgia's Hearst runs for Heisman 
)' 
Jln 'Eating 'Ezyerience 
J 
) i 
~------------------------------_,_~
j)L 
on 166 carries, a 7.7 average. At the same stage of the 1982 season, Walker had 1,413 yards on 277 attempts, a 5.1 average. 
It wasn't surprising that Walker went ahead in the Florida game. He destroyed the Gators throughout his three­year career, averaging 216.3 yards and scoring eight touch­downs. 
Hearst still has more all-pur­pose yards than Walker had, 1,552 to 1,498. His 8.3 per play average is three yards better than Walker's at the same stage of the season. 
"He's one heck of a ballplayer," said Paul Hornung, one of Notre Dame's former Heisman winners. "He's capable of breaking away and scoring on every play, and because of that he's not only an incredible running back, but he's also a very exciting player, a very dangerous player. 
"The fact that he has come on so strong and was so unex­pected adds something to the excitement that surrounds this player." 
It's more than excitement for Georgia coach Ray Goff. 
"He may be the most com­plete back we've had since I've been associated with Georgia," Goff said. 
A former Georgia quarter­back, Goff was on the coaching staff in the 1980s when the Bulldogs had such backs as Walker, Rodney Hampton, Tim Worley, Lars Tate and Keith Henderson. 
"As a blocker, he will physi­cally molest you," said Willie McClendon, the Bulldog running backs coach. 
'Happy 21st Birthday 
Debbie ''SBF'' Sus & Kevin ''Quikie'' Nelson 
From All The Bunnies And Fish 
Welcome Irish Fans! 
INick'sl 
--­ 
j 8  '"'"."""I  ~ i 1'  

fl 
Come see us for 
j~ 
1710 N. Ironwood 
I' l 
• Breakfast served all day. 
<;I 
277-7400
fl 
Open 24 Hours • Lur1ch 
~{ 
'. 
• Dinner 
I) 
r 
., 
......., 
-~ 
Friday, November 6, 1992 
The Observer 
-. Shaq ready for pros, Knicks for title run 
.~'' (AP)--For the Orlando Magic, . . nothing can overshadow the ~/-.. regular-season debut of b Shaquille O'Neal. For the Miami ~j!· Heat, however, it's a chance to ·llj" ·put on a good show on the road. .il The Heat in four years of exis­~-~ tence has never won in Chicago, 'i ~ New York, Boston, Atlanta, '·' Cleveland, Detroit, Oakland, 
Indianapolis, Inglewood, ., Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland, ': San Antonio or Salt Lake City.
't Miami, which made the play­..X offs despite a 10-31 road ~ record, opens the NBA season -#,;. Friday night in Orlando, where:f the Heat has managed to win 
• before. -', "It's just our inexperience, our · youth, not believing," Heat 
center Rony Seikaly said of the .j; team's road problems. "We lost · ',-( so much in the past. Going into :~f buildings, there were lots of bad 
::;-memories everywhere. Now ~~-we've become better than a lot
·' 
of those teams, and we have to 
.,.'-_ believe we can beat them." ,j_·_ But the Ma~ic will su~ely be ~-tough to beat m the commg-out 
; party for O'Neal, the 7 -foot-1, ,.. 300-pound rookie center who _,, was the No. 1 pick in the 1992
1 
Serving 
,., c.t.i" 
ND/SMC
PANCAKE 
Students for R.,...,.. 27 years 
. ·;._ 
'· 
draft. 
"The guy is awesome," Or­
lando point guard Scott Skiles 
said. "He's as good right now as 
any big guy in the league. He's 
going to be unreal." 
In other openers Friday night. 
it will be Minnesota at Boston, 
New Jersey at Philadelphia, 
New York at Atlanta, the Los 
Angeles Lakers at the Los 
Angeles Clippers, Washington at 
Charlotte, Chicago at Cleveland, 
Milwaukee at Detroit, Golden 
State at Utah, San Antonio at 
Sacramento, and Seattle vs. 
Houston at Tokyo. 
The Knicks, who won 51 games last season and took the Chicago Bulls to seven games in the Eastern Conference semifinals, have a revamped lineup with newcomers Rolando Blackman, Doc Rivers, rookie Hubert Davis, Charles Smith and Tony Campbell. 
But the go-to man for coach Pat Riley again will be the team's leading scorer in each of the last seven seasons, Patrick Ewing. 
"I don't see much of a change in my role," Ewing, 30, said. 




''I'm still here to block shots, 
score and rebound. There's 
definitely more balance, a lot of 
great players here and that 
should prove to be helpful in 
the long run. 
"Everyone is committed to 
working hard, making contri­
butions wherever they can. But 
that doesn't necesssarily mean 
that I'll be playing any differ­
ently." 
But with all the additional 
proven players at Riley's dis­
posal, perhaps Ewing will no 
longer have to be a dominant 
player for the Knicks to win. 
"With this group, it should take some of the burden from him," Riley said. "We'd like to get more balance, in that the opposition wouldn't know where the ball was going." 
But Riley still expects the Knicks' style to be getting the ball inside, especially to Ewing. 
"We're going to stay with it because it's a strength for us," Riley said. "The perimeter players are going to have to work ofT that." 
page 23 

AP file photo Patrick Ewing and the Knicks open their season tonight against the Atlanta Hawks. New York is the favorite to win the Atlantic Division. 
0' Neal, Spalding ink basketball promotional deal 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -The make his debut tonight for the NBA's $40 million man will soon Orlando Magic against the have a basketball of his own. Miami Heat, has signed a multi­Shaquille O'Neal, who will year endorsement contract with
. 
a New Vermin, 
Happy 21st 
Birthday, 
Bill! 
Love, Your Family 
Spalding, which plans to introduce a line of signature "Shaq Attaq" basketballs. 
"We feel he will make an im­mediate impact not only in the NBA, but in the entire sporting goods industry as well," said Jack Lacey, a Spalding vice president and general manager. 
"Because Shaquille is as impressive ofT the court as he is on, we feel he will transcend the endorsement world in terms of consumer appeal." 

Gladieux 
TRAVEL 
Top Ground Gainer ci '68 Has Gone To The Air 
B<>b Gladieux 234-6636 
Period• 

• 
Whatyou want 
iswhatyou get. 
-~r 




-r.....-----­
-------~-----­
page 24 
No-D Bengals face Bears 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Cincinnati Bengals carry a fa­miliar burden as they prepare for Sunday night's game in Chicago; they are last in the NFL in pass defense. 
The Bengals are allowing 264 yards per game in the air. They are on pace to give up 4,224 yards for the season, just 165 yards short of the NFL record. 
The New York Jets allowed the league-worst total of 4,389 yards in 1986. But the Jets still managed to finish 10-6 and make the playoffs that year. 
Making the playoffs is a tall order for the Bengals this year. They are last in the AFC Cen.. tral Division with a 3-5 record and are 1-3 in the division. Their 30-10 victory Sunday over Cleveland ended a five­game losing streak. 
All-Pro offensive tackle An­thony Munoz is still on the in­jured reserve list, suffering with strains of both shoulders. He is ineligible to play Sunday night against the Bears. But Munoz said he is feeling better and will lobby the Bengals to reactivate him when he is eligible to come off injured reserve the following week. 
"It•s their decision whether to activate me, but rm going to tell them ru be ready to play." Munoz said. "I've had three weeks' rest now, and I think the key was not doing anything the first two weeks. 
"I gave the shoulders com­plete rest. and now I can lift weights much more effectively. I know I'm stronger. And heck, I'm just sleeping better at night because I don't have the pain... ' 
The Bengals and the Bears have played each other four times. with each team winning 
twice. 
Dolphin weapons flop 
MIAMI (AP) -The Miami Dolphins are still waiting for their Pro Bowl talent to mesh into a Super Bowl offense. 
The signing of free agent tight end Keith Jackson three games
)' 
into the schedule gave Miami
J, 
seven offensive players with a ~·~ total of 22 Pro Bowl seasons. PI Six play skill positions, in­~·,: cluding quarterback Dan ~{ Marino, and they figured to 
make the Dolphins nearly un­
~ 
~~ stoppable. ~ But in the past two games ~~ 
against Indianapolis and the ~~ New York Jets, Miami stumbled and stalled, languished and 
I 
~ 
lost. The Dolphins had more talent than touchdowns. Their Pro Bowlers threw gutter balls. 
i "It's hard to believe, but it's happening -teams have been stopping us," said running back Bobby Humphrey, a Pro Bowl
~ 
( selection in 1990. "There's a breakdown here, a
~·· 
breakdown there. We keep beating ourselves," said Marino, a six-time Pro Bowl 
~ 
. choice . "We just haven't been playing
~~ 
well," said tackle Richmond f Webb, a Pro Bowler each of the past two seasons. "It's time for~· us to bust out. It's time for a
)· 
change."
p 
,$ Bill Clinton couldn't say it bet­ter. Neither could Don Shula. After watching his team blow a
~ 
~\ two-game lead in the AFC East the past two weeks, the Dol­
f ~ 
phins' coach can only hope Mi­ami (6-2) regains its spark Sunday at Indianapolis.
~ Five turnovers doomed the Dolphins in a 31-20 loss to the
~~. 
Colts two weeks ago. Last Sun­
t 
day at New York, Miami had
f 
season-low totals in first downs, yards and points while losing
r. ~ 
26-14. 
~ 
"In the Indianapolis game we did everything but hand the ball )! to them," guard Keith Sims )': said. "At New York, we justf didn't show up to play."
I 
r 
The offense has shown flashes of brilliance, most~ stunningly in Jackson's first game with Miami, a 37-10 vic­
tory at Buffalo. But too often,
~
, the all-star cast has been a bust.
~ 
Along with Marino, Webb, 
r ~ 
Humphrey and Jackson (three Pro Bowls with Philadelphia),
r 
t Miami's lineup includes re­
; 
<>eivers Mark Clayton (five Pro 
; 
Bowls) and Mark Duper (three). 
r 
Tight end Ferrell Edmunds 
/
fl (two) is on injured reserve. The supporting crew isn't bad, either. Sims might have a
i '/ 
Pro Bowl in his future, Tony
A 
Paige is perhaps the league's~ best blocking fullback, running 
( 
back Mark Higgs leads the team ~ with 485 yards rushing, and linemen Jeff Uhlenhake, Harry Galbreath, Mark Dennis and Jeff Dellenbach have started a combined 213 games. 
So what's the problem? 
"It hasn't been one person," Sims said. "If it was one person, you'd get rid of the person." 
"We've been hitting and missing," Jackson said. "We've just got to come up with the balls, stop fumbling, stop dropping passes." 
Go Irish! Beat Eagles! 
JORDAN 
FORD 
TOYOTA 
VOLVO 
MITSUBISHI 

w 
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1992 
Chiefs weary of revived San Diego 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -A month ago, how tempting the Nov. 8 date with then-winless San Diego must have looked in Kansas City. 
The Chargers, 24-10 victims at home to the Chiefs in the season opener, were 0-4 under first-year coach Bobby Ross and their starting quarterback was out for the year. 
The Chiefs were rolling along at 3-1, and new quarterback Dave Krieg was playing as if he'd been reincarnated as a young Sammy Baugh. Making the playoffs wasn't their major worry, securing home field ad­vantage was. 
Now, however, the Chargers have found new life with quar­terback Stan Humphries and have won their last four games, as hot as any team in the league. The Chiefs, encounter­ing any number of problems, glitches and quarterback set­backs, are 1-3. 
All of which leaves the two AFC West rivals deadlocked at 4-4 and proves once more a team's opinion of itself is de­termined not so much by its record, but how that record came to be. 
The Chargers are 4-4 and trying not to feel overconfident. The Chiefs are 4-4 and wonder­ing, "Why us?" 
"The wins have helped us," agreed Ross, a Chiefs assistant under Marv Levy 12 years ago. "They've given us some confi­dence. But it doesn't do a thing for us when it comes time to play in the ballgame Sunday afternoon in Kansas City. 
"If there's one lesson I've 
learned -and I think our play­
ers know this -you've got to 
JEFF CELIE 
New & Used Cars & Trucks 609 E. Jefferson Blvd P.O. Box 370 Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259,1981 ext. 632 
Toll Free.. (800) 837.-1981 ext. 632 Elkart Area Call (219) 674..9926 
• 
buy at $100 over dealer invoice 

•less 
college graduate rebate of $500 •possible $3,000 savings 


THE•POINTE 
__________-...
----.­
AT SAINT JOSEPH 
Start the holidays offwith a cozy place to stay. 
The Pointe at Saint Joseph Apartments are nestled on the Saintjoseph River bank and convienently located in downtown South Bend. 
•Close to ND Campus 
•Selected 1 or 2 bedroom apartments on special for a big Holiday Savings 
Your Luxury Apartment is waiting for you 
go out there and play hard ev­ery game. You just can't relax in any situation or assume any­thing in this league." 
The Chiefs, who had last week off, are 6-point favorites against the Chargers, who beat Indianapolis 27-0 last week in their first shutout since 1986. 
Humphries, the AFC player of the month for October, was thrown into battle when John Friesz suffered a knee injury in the preseason. The one-time Redskins backup is hitting al­most 60 percent of his passes for 1,679 yards with seven TDs and 12 interceptions. 
The Chargers, whose defense ranks second in the NFL behind Dallas, have outscored their opposition the past four weeks 101-41. 
After a 27-3 loss at home to Pittsburgh, their sorriest per­formance in Marty Schotten­heimer's five years as coach, the Chiefs were glad to have their bye week. Judging from coaches' steely countenances all week, it's safe to say the players didn't fritter away their time. 
But does Schottenheimer feel better about his team? 
"Yes," he said. "The disap­pointment of our performance against Pittsburgh ... we're not going to forget that. But what's happened is we've had a chance to evaluate and analyze the things that have gone on, and where we need to improve. The players have worked their tails off. I think we're all going to benefit." 
A victory gives the Chargers their first five-game win streak since 1987, when Al Saunders, the Chiefs' receivers coach, was their head man. 

Hair &Nail Studio 
OPEN 6 Days AWeek STUDENT SPECIAL 
$10 off afull set of nails 289-4335 
2301 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 5 minutes from campus 
r 
' 

Looking for an extraordinary gift from Notre Dame? Well, there's probably someone back home who would love to meet one of your great professors. To make that possible, the Alumni Association has just published the first four programs in the Notre Dame Great Teachers Series. Why? Because the university can offer something exciting for people whose college days are behind them but who haven't forgotten what a difference great teachers made in their lives. So we asked four of NO's outstanding professors to help us throw open a window for the mind and spirit. They responded with specially prepared lectures on classic works --works they have spent their careers studying and teaching. The result is an affordable, accessible, high-quality series of videotape or audiotape programs that each come with the appropriate books and suggested readings. 
Now the folks at home don't have to wonder what you've been up to. You can show them. They may not have told you this, but they would give their right arms to have the freedom and the time that you have to explore what Notre Dame can offer. So give a great gift to someone who's house-bound, career-bound or family-bound. Send them on an adventure this Christmas with a great teacher. 

Images of Man in Shakespeare's Tragedies Professor Paul Rathburn 
Shakespeare has never failed to move anyone who came to him and listened. In his major tragedies -Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth and King Lear-the greatest dramatist and poet in our language holds up a mirror to what is mysterious and uncontrollable in our lives. Paul Rathburn will help you see into that mirror-into Shakespeare's unforgettable and progressive visions of youth, passion, ambition and old age. Some have thought that these disturbing visions simply end in darkness and lack of meaning. Paul proposes that Shakespeare is never that simple, that he wrestled 
to the end with issues of fate and tlawed humanity. 
Professor Rathburn holds degrees in both Theology and English and has taught drama at Notre Dame since 1966. He is a Sheedy Award winner for outstanding teaching in Arts and Letters, and our students cannot find enough places in his courses. An expert on filmed versions of Shakespeare's plays, he offers invaluable advice on the films you will want to track down and. watch to experience the Bard at his most powerful. (Four lectures on videotape plus a text of the four plays.) 

The American Constitution and the People Who Made It Professor Walter F. "Jack" Pratt, Jr. 
In the summer of 1787, a remarkable collection of statesmen gathered to launch the greatest free deliberation about self-government in history. Out of it came the Constitution ofthe United States . The delegates faced an almost impossible task: forging consensus on a dramatically new form of government for the fragmented former colonies. Jack Pratt invites you to look in on their deliberations, recalling who these men were, what initially divided them and what ultimately brought them together. Then he explores the five Supreme Court decisions that have most influenced our interpretation of their work. What was at stake in each constitutional crisis, and why did the justices rule as they did? Not only will you meet great Amerians here, you will come to grips with the essence of our political experience. (Ten lectures on audiotape, plus text of The Federalist Papers and the Constitution.) 
A legal historian, Jack Pratt is Associate Dean of Notre Dame's Law School, and holds his D.Phil in Politics from Oxford and his J.D. from Yale. In 1978-79, he was Law Clerk to Chief Justice Warren E. Burger. His talks on the Constitution have drawn some of the highest ratings at the last two summer Elderhostel series on Notre Dame's campus. 
Quantity Course Pascal and the Meaning of Life The Constitution and the People Who Made It Dante and Aquinas: Road to Paradise 
Images of Man in Shakespeare's Tragedies 
The Great Tragedies 
0  Enclosed is my check  
0  Please charge my credit card:  
0  Amex 0  VISA 0  M/C  

Credit Card# 
Expiration Date _I_ Signature 
$89.00 First course courses@ $69.00 each
+ 
=Total Amount for Courses 
+ Add $5/course for shipping =Total Amount Remitted 
~~ 
Book 
Pascal's Pensees 
Federalist Papers & The Constitution 
The Divine Comedy 
Dante and Aquinas: The Road to Paradise 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny 
What did the cosmos look like to the two greatest geniuses of the Middle Ages? St. Thomas Aquinas, a Catholic theologian, took on the daunting and controversial task of relating twelve centuries of Christian thought and retlection to the rediscovered works of ancient Greek philosophers. Dante Alighieri, a poet inspired and informed by Aquinas, shaped one of history's most powerful visions of the human condition in The Divine Comedy, a journey through Heaven, Hell and Purgatory. Walk with Ralph Mcinerny as he explores the medieval world, the ideas of Aquinas and the incomparable poetry of Dante. You will come back from Paradise a different person. 

Ralph Mcinerny is the Michael P. Grace Professor of Medieval Philosophy, Director of the Jacques Maritain Center, and former Director of the Medieval Institute. At Notre Dame since 1955, he is perhaps as well known for his "Father Dowling" mysteries as for his prolific scholarship and sparkling teaching. He has delighted audiences as a guest lecturer at over 50 other colleges and universities. (Ten lectures on audiotape plus the text of Dante's Divine Comedy.) 
Pascal and the Meaning of Life 
Professor Thomas Morris 
Ever wish you had an inside track on the meaning of life? So did Blaise Pascal. A superb scientist and mathematician, Pascal gave us the first calculating machine, the first theory of probability and the first system of public transportation. Then at age 31, famous throughout Europe, he experienced a sudden, startling and thorough conversion of life. For the next eight years until his death, he thought and wrote intensely on the alternatives human beings face as they try to answer (or avoid!) ultimate questions. Tom Morris will introduce you to Pascal's famous Pensees-provocative, eloquent, urgent, deeply personal. Why should anyone wager that there is a God? How far is thinking about God going to get you? What is it that really drives the human heart? How can you know? Get some unexpected and extremely intriguing answers here. (Four lectures on video plus the text of Pascal's Pensees. 

Tom Morris has electrified student audiences ever since he took his Ph.D from Yale and started lecturing at Notre Dame in 1981. Winner of numerous teaching awards, Tom has been featured on The Learning Channel and speaks to rave reviews from adult audiences across the country. He is one of Notre Dame's most popular teachers with both students and alumni groups. 
' 
r 
• 
How to Order 
For fastest service, call toll-free 1-800-955-8118 (ask for ext. 20) to put your order on VISA, MIC or American Express. Or mail in this form and make your check payable to Notre Dame Great Teachers Series, c/o Fulfillment Center, 1681 Glens Drive, Florence, KY 41042. 
One course is $89.00, with additional courses only $69.00 each. (This discount applies whether you order different courses or multiple copies of the same course. All courses ordered before Dec. 12 will be shipped in time for Christmas.) 
Ship my order to: 

Name 
Address 
City, State, Zip 
-··
'·' 
-
-• 
page 26 The Observer Friday, November 6, 1992 

d 
: j 
. ~ 
~ :'-_ 
~~ 
~: 
g!!
'l 
~~ 
~~~ 
f
I. 
~~;'I 
r 
r
/),' 
~~ 
}f~
\ 
~ 
.... 
,1;,' 
ij~ 
. I 
t~
;· 
~;
p.( 
f: 
l
I
f 
,~ 
.J 
~ 
~,I 
~. ~l 
!:< 
~ ~ 
~ 
~· 
~j
)' 
) l 
x) 
~l 
~) ~I 
1
i~i 
~~ 
f l 
'• 
( .
.. 
I 
I.' 
( 
f, 
? 
,.j 
f· 
( 
I 
r ~· 
Auburn notified of NCAA violation inquiry 
AUBURN, Ala. (AP)-The NCAA sent Auburn an official letter of inquiry today charging exactly what former football player Eric Ramsey had claimed about illegal payments from coaches and boosters. 
The letter includes allegations that football coach Pat Dye knew about problems and didn't act on them. 
At a news conference, President William Muse said the letter contained nine allegations of rules violations, which he described as "major." 
They include: 
-A representative of university athletic interests provided cash and merchandise to a student athlete. 
-An assistant coach provided cash to a student athlete. 
-An athletic staff member provided cash on many occa­sions to a student athlete. 
-An assistant coach provided cash on one occasion to a student athlete. 
-A student athlete obtained a loan in violation of NCAA rules. 
-The university violated the principle of institutional control. 
-Two then-assistant coaches and a staff member acted contrary to the principles of ethical conduct. 
Michigan could clinch Big Ten title tie 
Wolverines to face Northwestern 
EVANSTON, Ill. (AP) ­Michigan's fourth-ranked Wolverines should clinch at least a tie for the Big Ten foot­ball championship Saturday when they invade Dyche Stadium to take on Northwestern. 
The Wolverines (7-0-1, 5-0) are bearing down on a fifth straight title and figure to ex­tend their record conference· winning streak to 19 games. 
But Northwestern (2-6, 2-3} could make it interesting if quarterback Lenny Williams can get his offense clicking. 
Both teams are somewhat miffed over last week's results. Michigan had to come from behind to defeat Purdue 24-17 after trailing 1 7-7 at the half. 
Northwestern fell to Michigan State 27-26 when Brian Leahy's last-play field goal was ruled no good. It was so close that some observers thought it could have been called either way. 
Williams passed for a career­high 365 yards against Michigan State. Lee Gissendaner is his main re­ceiver. Gissendaner has caught 45 passes for 521 yards but is a threat in other areas. 
Gissendaner leads the nation in punt returns with a 25.9 av­erage and last week he re­turned a kickoff 90 yards for a touchdown. 
"If we kick the ball like we have the last couple of weeks, this guy will kill us," Michigan coach Gary Moeller said. "He's a threat and we've got to do scored four different ways. Once on a punt return, once on a kickoff return, four times on passes caught and once rushing on a reverse against Notre Dame. 
better. The  problem is  our  
tackling."  
Gissendaner  already  has  

But against the Wolverines he will face a defense that is tops in the Big Ten in almost every category. 
"They're a much better team than they've been in the past," Moeller said. "Northwestern has not lost its enthusiasm. They're playing hard even though they haven't been winning. When they see Michigan walk on their field, they'll be fired up." 
Northwestern coach Gary Barnett started firing things up earlier in the week by saying "Michigan doesn't play fair" by using 12 men during substitu­tions. 
"It's illegal to run a guy into a huddle and then have the same guy run back off," said Barnett. 
Purdue coach Jim Colletto questioned the officials about the practice last week and Barnett picked up on it. 
Moeller said the incident at Purdue was late communication and "not us trying to take advantage of anything." No need. 
Elvis Grbac leads the Big Ten and ranks No. 2 in the nation in passing efficiency. 
I 
.1·•.. ~~­
The HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Special Hours on Game Day! 8 a.m. -6 p.m. 
Christmas Special! 25% off All Hardbound Tradebooks 
Christmas
Best Sellers! 
Books on Notre Dame! Books by Notre Dame Faculty! 

The Observer/Jake Peters Michigan will need quarterback Elvis Grbac to run the offense well against Northwestern this weekend. 
This Year Gi\'C the Gift of ; , Traditionu-~~~~ H A Notre Dame Memory... p ,, ! ·limited Edition' ~; ...,..-.......... Handcolored Prints tl . l ~ ~ ~ · .. -·.~~: t· . 1-­by Ken David ~ i .. ·=: -~ --·~:~.. '·: On Sale ,:: ... " .:(' . ...-...·. •..............··h ·i~.. ·~:~:~~ ·~ ·· · .. \o'Hara Room-LaForrune '·Ill> •·••'f ~~ November 6 & 7 and November 13 & 14 ~  

BOOKS ,\.1AKE GIFTS OF 
• 
A VERY SPECIAL KIND. 
THEY DON'T BREAK, THEY DON'T WILT, THEY DON'T ACE. 

Friday, November 6, 1992 The Observer page 27 

AP file photo Jose Lind (in air) was awarded a Gold Glove yesterday, as were his Pirate teammates outfielders Barry Bonds and Andy Van Slyke. 
prestigious conferences in the United States. 
Polo 
In addition, the Irish will
continued from page 32 
hope to gain recognition in a sport that is dramatically 
and featuring the top four growing in popularity, team from one of the most especially across the Midwest. 

Happy Birthday, 
Chela! 
EYES STILL SPARKLING AFTER 20 YEARS! 
Jean, Joelle, Elspeth, 
Tamarack, Snowball, 
Shadow, Nina, Dad 
and the 18 Guppies 
5l :Memoria{ :Mass to remember tfie s{ain women re{igious ofLiberia 
Jfgnes 5\fue[[er + '13ar6ara ..9Lnn 9vfuttra Joe[ 'l(p[mer + Sliir[ey ?(p[mer 1(atli[een Mcquire + ana tlie novices of tlie Jlaorers of tlie 'B[ooa ofChrist 
!friday, t]{pvember 6, 1992 13asilica of tfie Sacred 9-{eart 
5:15pm 

(tMPUSMINISTRY 
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame Notre Dame. IN 46556 
Lind ends Sandberg's Gold streak 
NEW YORK (AP) -For all the line drives and popups that Jose Lind caught this year with his Gold Glove, they'll never make up for the grounder that got away. 
Lind's error on a bouncer by David Justice was just the break the Atlanta Braves needed in the playoffs last month, and they turned the mistake into a three-run rally in the ninth inning to beat Pittsburgh 3-2 in Game 7. 
On Thursday, Lind was pre­sented with his first-ever Rawlings Gold Glove, ending a streak of nine straight wins by Ryne Sandberg of the Chicago Cubs as the NL's best-fielding second baseman. As happy as Lind was, the award could not compensate for the one error that could have cost the Pirates a chance to reach the World Series. 
"No, not at all," Lind said. "I just tried to catch that ball and I didn't. There's nothing you can do about it now." 
Lind led NL second basemen with a .992 fielding percentage this season, making only six errors in 745 chances. But he made two errors in the playoffs, including the big one in the final game. 
"It's awfully easy to pick out one guy, like Bill Buckner," said Andy Van Slyke, Lind's teammate and a fellow Gold Glove winner. "But we win and lose as a unit. We could've had a 4-0 lead and it wouldn't have made a difference." 
Van Slyke won his fifth straight Glove and was joined in 
;i ·~ 
.,,,~· 
...·.·.jlf(':.,,,,-:'. 
Tony LaRussa 
Take vour heart 
to court. 
Exercise serves you right. 
the outfield by Pittsburgh's 
Barry Bonds, who won his 
third. 
Other NL winners were Cubs 
first baseman Mark Grace, St. 
Louis shortstop Ozzie Smith, At­
lanta third baseman Terry 
Pendleton, Montreal outfielder 
Larry Walker, St. Louis catcher 
Tom Pagnozzi and Cubs pitcher 
Greg Maddux. 
The AL winners were Yankees first baseman Don Mattingly, Toronto second baseman Roberto Alomar, Baltimore shortstop Cal Ripken, Chicago third baseman Robin Ventura, Texas catcher Ivan Rodriguez, California pitcher Mark Langston and outfielders Ken Griffey Jr. of Seattle, Kirby Puckett of Minnesota and Devon White of Toronto. 
Smith's award was announced last month before he joined a Japanese tour by major league all-stars. Smith has won 13 straight Gold Gloves, the most in NL history; Brooks Robinson and Jim Kaat have won 16 each. 
Mattingly won his seventh Gold Glove and Puckett earned his sixth. White, whose catch against the center-field fence started a near-triple play in the World Series, won his fourth. Pendleton's award was the first for an Atlanta player since Dale Murphy in 1985. 
Rodriguez, at age 20, won in his first full season in the ma­jors. He is the second-youngest winner ever, only a week older than when Cincinnati catcher Johnny Bench won in 1968. 
Rodriguez threw out 48.6 per­cent of opposing basestealers, far better than the major league average of 33 percent. Rodriguez did it despite han­dling a staff of pitchers that is wild. 
"I don't mind blocking balls in the dirt," he said. "That's when I usually can make pickoff throws to first base." 
The Gold Gloves are awarded after a vote by opposing man­agers and coaches after the regular season. Though they are supposed to be given solely for fielding excellence, some believe that more than defen­sive statistics are considered. 
"This year, I thought I had no chance," said Lind, who batted .235. "I didn't hit that well, and maybe that has something to do with it." 
Lind won for his fielding, and did it despite using the same, small glove he has used since he was 13. The 28-year-old Lind said the mitt now has a two-inch hole in the heel, and that he gets a lot of balls against bare skin because he prefers not to catch them in the pocket. 
"I've got a ton of other gloves, but I don't use them," he said. "Now that I've won the Gold Glove, I'm going to keep using my old one." 
The awards to Smith and Pagnozzi gave the Cardinals a record 54 Gold Gloves since they were first presented in 1957. Ripken's second straight award gave Baltimore an AL­high 49. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Tony La Russa, voted American League Manager of the Year last week by the baseball writers, was named as Major League Man­ager of the Year by The Asso­ciated Press on Thursday. 
La Russa, who led the Oakland Athletics to their fourth AL West title in five years, received 7 5 votes in nationwide balloting by AP member writers and broadcasters. 
Phil Garner of the Milwaukee Brewers and Jim Leyland of the Pittsburgh Pirates tied for second with 50 votes, followed by Felipe Alou of the Montreal Expos with 40 votes. 
John Oates of the Baltimore Orioles got five votes, and Cito Gaston of the World Series champion Toronto Blue Jays got four. Bobby Cox of the National League champion Atlanta Braves and Art Howe of the Houston Astros received three 
LaRussa named AP Manager of the Year 
votes each. 
It was the second AP award 
for La Russa, named AL Man­
ager of the year by the news 
cooperative in 1983. The AP 
began selecting a Major League 
Manager of the Year the follow­
ing season. 
La Russa received a lot of 
credit for the A's success this 
seasons, juggling a shifting 
roster that saw 16 players dis­
abled for a club record 22 
times. 
"In the end, because it was so tough, it also was one of the most rewarding," La Russa said last week when he received the AL award. "No matter what the adversity, and it was piling on and on, this club just never gave in to it, and for that I'll never forget them." 
Oakland took over first place in the AL West for good on Aug. 4 during an eight-game winning streak, then used a 10-game winning streak to extend the lead over Minnesota to 8 1/2 
' 
games by Sept. 18. The A's won ·' the division by six games over the Twins. 
La Russa's task next season will be to reshape a changed team. Thirteen A's have filed for free agency, and general manager Sandy Alderson has said he wants to reduce the team's $47.5 million payroll. 
CRUISE JOBS 
Students Needed! Earn$2.000+I month working for cruise shipsor tour cmnpmies. Holiday, Summer, and Full­Time employment available. For your '92/'93 employment program call; 
CnriM Employment Smrlu• 
(206) 634-0468 Exl c 5584 


page 28 The Observer Friday, November 6, 1992 

Dallas 'D' seeks revenge from Lions 
IRVING, Texas {AP) -A Sil­verdome redemption is at hand for the Dallas Cowboys' defense, currently rated as the best in the NFL. 
It was the NFL's worst last season in the Cowboys' two ap­pearances in the Silverdome. Now, Dallas has passed Philadelphia as the stingiest defender in the league in a 7-1 run. 
Detroit's 1991 run-and-shoot offense shot defensive coordi­nator Dave Wannstedt's cre­ation to shreds. It wasn't so bad in a 34-10 loss during the regu­lar season because the defense gave up only two touchdowns. But the 38-6 playoff loss to the Lions was a disaster. The de­fense gave up 421 yards and five touchdowns. 
"They embarrassed us, beat us bad," recalled defensive 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP)­San Francisco 49ers quarter­back Joe Montana is throwing the ball again -without pain. 
Montana's agent, Peter John­son, said the quarterback threw 7 5 passes in an informal workout with teammates Wes­ley Walls and John Taylor on Tuesday and "felt great" afterward. 
"He's got no soreness, no pain, no inflammation, no fluid, so he's keeping his fingers crossed," Johnson said Wednesday. 
It was not known if Montana, who was placed on the injured reserve at the start of the sea­son, threw again on Wednesday. Montana reportedly was 
Spike 
continued from page 32 
MCC champion, and its players are focused on reaching the NCAA tournament, which the Irish narrowly missed last year. However, don't expect the team to look past these crucial tackle Russell Maryland. "We have something to prove against Detroit. We have to prove we can play well in the Silverdome and we have to prove we can handle the run­and-shoot. 
"People keep harping on it. We're ready to show what we can do." 
What Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson did after the playoff game was vow to upgrade his secondary. 
He drafted defensive backs Kevin Smith, Darren Woodson and Clayton Holmes, and ob­tained Thomas Everett from the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
"We wanted to upgrade the entire team talentwise but the last area we upgraded was the defensive backfield." Johnson said. "We knew we had to do it. 
"We didn't have trouble just with Detroit. We had problems with Atlanta and Houston dur­ing the regular season. We knew we had to make some changes. We feel we've done it." 
The Cowboys worked long and hard against the run-and­shoot in training camp in sev­eral scrimmages with the Oil­ers. They also played Houston twice in preseason. 
The Dallas "nickel" or pass defense package has improved to the point where the Cowboys are first in the NFL in third­down defense. 
"I predicted in training camp that our biggest improvement this year would be on defense," Johnson said. "Now we've got the talent, an outstanding scheme and an outstanding coach (Wannstedt). The biggest improvement on this team is the defense." 

~~ 
i ( 
,. ·I 
!! L 

'( 
~> ~ 
(l 
~· 
d 
f ~ 
t\ 
'~ 
J 
s; 
a
~l 
~}
~i ~~ ~~ 
~) 
~J
1' 
i. 
i)I 
r!, 
~~ 
~)
!{ 
I ! f' 
:H 
~' 
1l~ 
r.:,, n 
(, 
~ j 
; I 
t ' . 
.~ 
() 
n 
p 
~~ 
; ' 
·~ 
' 
'.1 
; : 
. ' 
Is Montana ready to throw again? 
working out near his home in Atherton. 
"I believe he threw today, but I really can't comment on it," 49ers coach George Seifert said Wednesday. "I haven't received any report on his throwing." 
The coach also downplayed Montana's return. 
"It's certainly not this week, and we'll just have to wait and see," Seifert said. "The doctors haven't told me that I should expect that (Montana's return) right now." 
Published reports indicated Montana wanted be on the practice squad by next week. But Johnson said the quarter­back's plans are not that firm. 
"It's been such an emotional 
matches. 
"The conference (which has an automatic bid) is the easiest road into the NCAA tourna­ment," Brown said. "Also, the juniors and seniors who have played against these schools in a year (1990) we didn't do well in the conference would defi­nitely not like to go out losing to any of these teams." 
roller coaster for Joe," Johnson said. "He's taking it day by day. He does not want to set any goals because he has been dis­appointed so many times be­fore." 
Seifert denied that it would create a problem to add Mon­tana to the practice team roster, which would allow the 36-year­old quarterback to formally practice with the team. 
"I don't particularly see that as being difficult, but it's noth­ing that I'm dealing with right now," Seifert said. "I don't think it's an issue." 
Montana said Tuesday that his plan is to get ready to play as soon as possible. 
ft" ~·
0
ft..,.o~('~~""
,~#~0~ 
~ ~ o• 
,bQ;/J~w • 
,~~ a1tress '-? Wanted 
1 mile east of campus 
AP File Photo Cowboys' defensive end Russell Maryland, shown here with his mother after winning the Outland Trophy for Miami , hopes to avenge a 38-6 loss to Detroit in last year's playoffs. 
U:Jt:BA.N :PLUNCi:E 
R.Efl 'LST:Jt..tT'LON DE..tDL'LNE NOVEM.:BER. 6 
REGISTRATION INfORMATION AVAII_ABLE: 
ND: I'JCenter for Social Concerns 
"'Campus Ministry: Badin Hall/Hesburgh Library I'JDorm Representatives 
iSM C:  ""'SUR.V  
,I ,  """  Campus Ministry  
~  -Justice Education  
~  

!---F-o_r_m__o-re~inf~o-rm--a-.ti_o_n_c_a:-=11-:-::C::-e-n~te-r-:f::-o-r~S-o~ci:-al-;-::::C:-:o"":'n"':'ce':"'m'::":s--"1 Sue Cunningham: 239-5293 , or talk to our hall re resentative 
S2.00 OFF 
(EXCLUDES SALE ITEMS, USED.  
ANY REGULAR PRICED  SINGLES, AND OlJOGETS)  
CI\SSETTF on  COUPON EXPinES  1 2-J 1-9 2  
COMrACT OI~C  liMIT ONE f'f.R CUSTOMEn f'ER VISIT  

SMC Students Interested in Writing for 
The Observer 
The SMC computer can now send stories to ND office. 
Contact: Amy Greenwood-news 273-2993, Nicole McGrath-sports 284-5193, Mara Divis-accent 284-5254 or Anna Marie Tabor-editor 284-5440 for more information. 
UNDER 
SIEGE @ 
Fri: 5:15,7:30.9:45 Sat-Sun: 12:45, 3:00, 5:15,7:30, 9:45 
CONSENTING ADULTS 
[!!]
KEVIN KLINE 
Fri: 5:15, 7:30,9:45 Sat-Sun: 1:15,3:15,5:15,7:30, IUS 
EMILIO '-----' ESTEVEZ 
THE MIGHTY 
ffi DUCKS 
Fri: 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 Sat-Sun: 12:30,2:45,4:45,7:00. 9:15 
THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS DANIEL 
DAY-LEWIS 
~ 
Frl: 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 Sat-Sun: 2:00, 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 
.: ; 

Friday, November 6, 1992 The Observer page 29 
-· 
' 
Men's swimming ready for BGSU 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
these will be our key events." 
Sports Writer 
These events include the 50 free which is being swum by The Notre Dame men's 
two freshmen, Ross Parrish and swimming team faces Bowling Jamie Malcolm, and two Green State University tonight sophomores, Kris and Robin in its second dual meet of the Samaddar. The 100 free with season. The men will swim at Kris Samaddar, sophomore Rolfs Aquatic Center at 6 p.m. Andy Kiley, and the only Bowling Green is a member of returning member of Notre the Mid-America Conference Dame's team holding a univer­and has been on Notre Dame's sity record, senior Greg Cor­schedule for the past three nick, is also a significant race. years. Cornick holds records in the 
"Notre Dame has won the last 400 and 800 free relays. two meets, but Bowling Green's Greg Cornick Bowling Green, on the other men have improved dramati­hand, will be depending on cally in the past two years. it to be a very good meet," said strong finishes in the 200 Their team holds a pretty Irish coach Tim Welsh. backstroke. the 500 free. and commanding lead in the series, According to Welsh, although the 200 breast. Welsh also 
_and they continue to improve. Notre Dame's swimmers are stated that several events. in­Their coaeh, Brian Gordon, re­"very new in sprint freestyle cluding the 200 and 1000 free, eruits very well, and we expect this year, our history shows that the 200 I.M.. and the 400 free 
Replay helps Bruins top Nordiques, 6-4 
BOSTON (AP) -The Boston five at home against the Bruins needed help from a re­Nordiques since then. Only one play official to extend their current Nordique, Steven Finn, home unbeaten streak against was with Quebec the last time Quebec to 20 games with a 6-4 it won in Boston. defeat of the Nordiques on Oates and Leach gave Boston Thursday night. a 2-0 lead in the game's open­
Replay judge Paul Flaherty ing minutes. Oates scored with overruled the goal judge and 1 :45 gone in the game as the awarded a goal, the Bruins' Bruins had a two-man advan­fifth, to Steve Heinze in the tage. Leach finished ofT a two­second period. on-one break with Dave Poulin 
\Vith the Bruins short­by scoring at 4:02. handed, Heinze took the puck at center ice and came in alone on Stephane Fiset when de-North Stars 3, Islanders 0 
NHL WRAP fenseman Kerry
Huffman fell. 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn.-Jon
Fiset caught 
Casey stopped 28 shots for his
Heinze's shot with his glove 
TU£ VARSITY SUP 
Hair Designers 

Say you saw us in the Observer 
Haircuts $6.00 with Student I.D. 277-0057 
2 miles north of campus on U.S. 31 

ttention students­ur ad in the ND telephone directory was placed in the wrong section. Please record our number under beauty nd barber shops. 
relay, are "real toss up events." 
Diving plays a decisive role in tomorrow's meet. "If anyone is important to our win tomorrow, it's Sean Hyer. He's our only male diver," said Welsh. 
Hyer will be diving in the one and three meter events tonight. 
"If Sean wins, it will make it easier for us to keep our bal­ance in the meet," stated Welsh. 
More critical than any indi­vidual event, however, is an offensive/defensive approach to tonight's meet. 
"Our offense will consist of winning events, while our de­fense must be that, when we do lose an event, we can use our depth to still win as many points as possible," said Welsh. 
and goal judge AI Ruell ruled there was no goal, but Flaherty -after reviewing the tape for more than three minutes ­ruled the puck had crossed the line. 
Steve Leach ·scored two goals, the second into an open net with 17 seconds remaining, for Boston. Adam Oates, Gord Roberts and Joe Juneau also scored for the Bruins, who moved past Quebec into second place in the Adams Division. 
Mats Sundin, Scott Young, Gino Cavallini and Joe Sakic scored for the Nordiques, who had a four-game unbeaten streak broken. 
Quebec's last win in Boston was Oct. 29, 1987. The Bruins have won 15 games and tied 
first sllutout in almost a year and Dave Gagner scored twice, leading the Minnesota North Stars to a 3-0 victory over the punchless New York Islanders. 
The Islanders suffered their second consecutive shutout and haven't scored in 134 minutes, 10 seconds. They wasted a 29-save effort from their goalie, Glenn Healy. 
Casey, who has 10 career shutouts, last blanked a team on Nov. 12,1991, the night he signed a four-year, $3.8 million contract that at the time made him the North Stars' highest­paid player ever. 
Gilmore to
TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
transfer 
If you think you've come far in the past four years, you won't believe how far you could go in the next five. 

If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background in 

Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering or Computer Science, we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Travelers Telecommunications Technology Management Program (ITMP). 
The most comprehensive training program of it's kind in the fmancial services industry, TfMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications 
• 
environment Through a variety of rotational assignments-and supplemental classroom study--TIMPis singly focused on developing the managers whowill keep us on the cutting edge. 
TTMP is not easy and it's not for everyone. But, if you're looking to develop the 
full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications 
technology available, there's simply no better place to begin your career. 
. 
Find out more: 
Come to The Travelers Information Session on 
Monday, November 9, 1992 7:00p.m. Center Continuing Education, Room 230 
Interviews will be conducted 
Tuesday, November 10, 1992 
Summer Intern candidates are also encouraged to attend. 
1153 N_ De5bc:m St.,~ !loa"
TheTravelerSJ' 
Olica90,1160610 
311·951·0585
You're better off under the Umbrella.® 
Call your FREE copy of the 
e 1991 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183 An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Student Travels Magazine 
Nathlon Gilmore 
Special to The Observer 
Nathion Gilmore, a six-foot­eight sophomore forward from San Marcos, Texas, has left the Notre Dame basketball team and told head coach John MacLeod he intends to transfer • to another school following the end of the current semester. 
The University has granted Gilmore a release to permit him to contact other institutions about the possibility of transferring. He intends to remain at Notre Dame until the fall semester finishes in December. 



~·. 



:~. 
i' 
·. .._ 
page 30 
Women host Bowling Green 

Tanya Williams 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
The women's swim team takes on Bowling Green University tonight at 6 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Last December Notre Dame had one of their toughest dual meets at Bowling Green, pulling out a 124-119 victory over the Falcons. This year the Irish will have the advantage of racing at home. 
Assistant Coach Randy Julian says that the women's team will have to focus on the middle distance and distance freestyle events. "Bowling Green is real strong in the longer freestyle events, they have an excellent breaststroker, and a freshman backstroker who will be a challenge." 
"They have a very strong breaststroker, and they are very competitive. It should be a really good meet," said senior captain Tanya Williams. 
Bowling Green's breaststro­ker Josie McCollough, who was a top eight finisher at the NCAA championship meet last year, will be a strong force to reckon with, according to Julian. In the freestyle events, Laura Yenglin will be out to continue her winning steak against the Irish. 
In order to win tonight, the women's team will have to race well and rely on the depth of the team. Sprinting will play an important role in the Irish victory; in the individual events and in the relays. At the same time, it will be key to place well in the distance and stroke events. 
WOULD 
$40,000 
HELP WITH COLLEGE! 
You can earn more than $15,000 during a standard Army Reserve enlistment... 
Andanother $5,040 ifyou qualify for the Montgomery GI Bill... . 
Plus ifyou have or obtain a qualified student loan, you could get help paying it off­up to $20,000-ifyou train in certain specialties. 
Andthat's for part-time service-usually one week­end a month plus two weeks' Annual Training. 
Think about it. Then think about us. And call today: 
BE ALL YOU CAM BE: 
ARMY RESERVE 
The Observer Friday, November 6, 1992 
Beleaguered crew team heads to Atlanta 
Special to the Observer "It's not strictly a novice race, but we're treating it that way," said crew president Dave 
The Notre Dame crew team Reeder. "In the fall, we alwaysseeks refuge from the cold rain take the novice team to one big
and snow of the Midwest, 
race. This year, it's to Atlanta." 
traveling to the Head of the 
Both novice teams have been 
Chattahoochie in Atlanta, Ga. 
braving the arctic climates for 
this weekend for a season fi­two-a-day practices the past
nale. 
two weeks on St. Joseph's river,
The race provides an oppor­
the women's team hitting the 
tunity for both novice groups to water at 5 a.m. 
gage their progress against 
Ten varsity men and eight
other competition. Men's and women are also slated to row. 
women's novice teams will 
"We're not sending a whole lot 
bring 27 participants each, en­of people due to people getting 
tering three boats each. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ND Tae Kwon .Do Club. will be holding testing on November 5 at 
7:30 p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the JACC. If you have questions call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. 

Power volleyball is being played at the Rock on Mondays from 12 p.m.-1:15 p.m. and is open to alL If you have any questions, call Mike at 239-5689. 
The Observer Sports Department is looking for people to do Scoreboard for $$. If you have any computer shills. please call Mike Scrudato or Jim Vogl at The Observer. 239-7471, or at home. 
sick and fixing our GPA's," cracked Reeder. 
The team sends a men's open­four of Curt Lindgrin, Tim Sonowski, Christian Dunbar and Steve Krumneacker . 
The women's strong boat consists of Tricia Cody, Thea 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
Irish Swimming vs Bowling Green 
Rolf's Aquatic Center Friday 6:00 PM 
'-...,<:). 
~~~/(~fr¢~\'~·'~ 

~·')
'· f \ ' 
Men's Basketball Charity Intrasquad Game JACC Basketball Arena Practice begins at 6:30PM and Game at 8:00 Wednesday, November 11 
Tickets-$2.00 
True, Dina St. Claire, Jessica Ziembrowski and cockswain Tricia Starr. 
"The women did really well this season. At the Head of the Charles, they placed fifth among 40 boats," recalled Reeder. 

You're Beary Special at The Good Ideas___Company 

Where All Your Collectible Dreams Come True 
The Good Ideas Company Presents ....... . Jeckle-Jenson Kunstlerpuppen by European Artist Dolls .... American Girl Collection .... Gotz Dolls .... Pictura Christmas Cards by Lisi. ... New Lines of Artist Bears .... Lones tar Bears by Oz .... Chocolate Bears by Charpente1 .... Garlee Muffy Bear (125.00) .... North 
· American Bear Gingerbear and Alpine outfits .... New Muffy Spring catalog to browse through.... FEu( 1n·s NOVfEMBIEAIR.....INJOVEMBIEAIR 5 u R r R15 E :. NOVlEMBEAR......NOVEMBEArR 
Bring in this Ad for ~ 
t3EJ 
$5 off any purchase &~~~Tir of $20 or more. 
Hours: 
Mon-ThursOn US 31 Between Douglass  10 to 6  
Friand Cleveland Rds.  10 to 9  
277-6184  Sat  10 to 6  
Sun  2 to 5  

The Good Ideas Company 



Today 
Friday, November 6, 1992
•• Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 31 
SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
11-5 C 1987 FarWOII<s. lnc.J!lls1rJOOted bv Unrmsal Press Syndocate ;;Go.,., 

Final page of the Medical Boards 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
Today's Special: 
1 Lame 95 
Thin--Grust 
Pizza  (Additional toppings 95¢ per pizza)  
Call Now  Valid at participating stor..s only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.  
ND  271..0300  Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not  
SMC  289..0033  penalized for late deliveries. ttl1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.  
MENU  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Spaghetti  Fettucine Alfredo  
Broiled Turbot  Spinach Quiche  
Shrimp Egg Rolls  Chicken Marsala  
Spaghetti  
CAMPUS  
Friday  

7:30 p.m. Moreau Center for the Arts, ..The Statesmen." O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 
Saturday 
9:30 a.m. Closed Meeting-Alcoholics Anonymous. Multipurpose Room. Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by ND Alumni Association. 7 p.m. "Black Images," a Black Cultural Arts Festival. Washington Hall. Admission fee. 
Sunday 
2 p.m. "New World String Quartet,.. Guest Artist Concert, quartet-in-residence, Harvard University. Washington Hall. Sponsored by music department. 
.. ­
~<) SOON f>..<) \At. iVRI'{ -mE LIG\-\T5 0\T, 11-\£. M~'STE.IC> 't{ILL C<::M£ SACK 0\J\ ~ 
UNOER ""'~ 13ill. r---~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Sri Lankan grasslands 8 Catkins 14 Discharged matter 15 Phil of TV 17 Kern musical: 1933 11 Neon, e.g. 19 Eisenhut is one 20 Be a dilettante 22 Comment by Cratchit's boss 23 Half a North African dish 25 "On a-Day" 26 Nucha 27"-girl!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~ 
~~::+:::+=-+:,-+-=-tf>:-:-+=+:=-t 
..::...L::..J..:...:...L..:~..L:....;...L-1...._...__,___, 
28 Ancient Hebrew measure 290ne who lessens 31 Caesar's 554 32 Elliott, to Franklin D. 33 French aunts 34 Greek letters 36 Winter time in Helena 38 Turn right 39 Children 42 Arab word for hill 44 Very, to Pierre 47 Greek markets 48 Guido's high note 49 Actress Daly so Incipient alums. 
~Ei~E ~T G<JI~G \C> GO A-wt:..'i, sc I G\JtSS w~ 
N~~O TO ~~~D SOMt. WA.'{ "ID LWE WIT\-\ 1\-IEM 
51 German city 53 Storm-hunting satellite 54 Fireplace projection ss Unexpected 
gains: Br. slang 57 Opacate sa Of Palaearctic 
deserts, etc. 61 Novelist France 63 Burst, as a seed 
pod 64 Lawn seeder, 
e.g. 65 Thick stems 66 Fragments 
DOWN 
1 Chemist's inorganic compound 
2 A salamander 3 With 12 Down, lines from "New York, New York" 4 "Fables in Slang" author 5 Kind of 
ointment 6 Has at 7 Blue-green alga a Poet Nicolson 9 Kind of rodent 
1o Nantes-to­Angers dir. 
11 Place of service for some vets 
12 See 3 Down 
liS 1-\ARO -nJ cn·E.X 1'5T W\1\\ -rniNGS T'Ht\1 'NAt\\ Ttl KILL '(OU. 
WE ARt:. Wt.'RE 
I ~D£R IF STI\'(\1-\G f!...'tJ.P..V.f. 
WE CO'JlP A\.L ~~~\.\ T WIT\-\ 
st.T FIRt. TO 
W.E. l\@15 ON . 
11\E. BED 
l-1\T"D\JI 
B\)R~ING 11-\£ 
1-W<s£ OOWN. 

13 New England trout 16 Anesthetics 
21 He wrote the music for "New York, New York" 
24 Redeemers 26"No, No,-," 
1925 musical 3D Sack 35 Madrid Mrs. 37 "Jeopardy!" is 
one 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
39 Kind of potatoes 40 Pays no attention to 
41 Reverse 43 Designer de 
45 Stored green fodder 
46 Garment workers 52 Ancient cryptic signs 56 Tony of puppetry 59 Actress Farrow 60 lcel., e.g. 62 Strange device 
------------------~----------------------------------~--­
I' 
I, 
'I 

• ~ 
I 
> 
., 
'-:
~ 
~ \~ 
l 
u 
( 
~·· 
'.J ., 
);
I( 
~ 
J 
} 

Sports 
page 32 Friday, November 6, 1992 

JENNY 
Schafer, Irish trying to break the ice 
MARTEN 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
On Top of Sports 
The Notre Dame Hockey team travels to Oxford, Ohio this weekend to face theEagles or Irish: Miami University Redskins in a two game series. Notre Dame holds a 4-2 a fan torn lead in series history. This is their first 
meeting since 1982-83. The Irish (0-4 in CCHA league and 0-5
between loyalties 
overall) face a Miami team that is corning off its first ever sweep of Michigan State in East Lansing.
When Notre Dame and Boston 
They were picked to finish fourth inCollege scheduled a three-game series the preseason Central Collegiate Hockey starting in 1992 a few number of years 
Association coaches poll, but the 
ago, I thought it was a fantastic idea 
Redskins have gained the number 10
and couldn't wait unitl that wonderful ranking in the nation as a result of theirday when the Eagles would meet the 3-1 record.
Irish. My parents' alma mater against Miami is the third top 10 team that themy beloved Notre Dame. 
youthful Irish will have faced sinceThe rnatchup isn't looking so 
opening their season two weeks ago. 
wonderful now. 
The Redskins are led in scoring by seniors Chris Bergeron and Brian
I never expected Boston College to be Savage with six points each. Sophomore 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
7-0-1 and ranked just one spot below forward Matt Oates has chipped in with 
The Irish hockey team (0-4) hopes to break into the win column this season. The team
the Irish in its season highlighted by three goals. 
draws two tough matches at tenth-ranked Miami of Ohio (3-1) this weekend. 
multiple shutouts and an upset of Penn Senior defenseman Joe Cook has beenState. 
devastating from the point on the power goaltending duties. that will affect the outcome of theNor did I imagine that Notre Dame 
play with his scorching shots. Notre Dame coach Ric Schafer game."
would be trying to get back into the 
Goaltending duties will be split by junior describes Miami as "a tough, physical,
top-five with wins against three ranked Richard Shulmistra and freshman Kevin opportunistic and disciplined team." Schafer knows his team has played
teams in the last three games of the 
Descha.mbeault. Their main strength is their overall team well. "It's time that they're rewarded for season. 
discipline with the puck. their efforts." he says. "We must neu­The Irish will counter Miami's scoring tralize a hostile, parents-weekend crowdThis poses quite a dilernna for me. In power with freshman Jamie Ling, who The Irish are coming off two with excitement of our own." 
my formative years as a college football 
leads the team with nine points (four heartbreaking losses to Lake Superior
fan, Notre Dame was struggling 
goals, five assists). State University. Schafer hopes his squad Miami hopes to capture the 200ththrough the Gerry Faust years when a Senior Curtis Janicke, freshman James learned that "attention to detail is very victory in their program history. Notre·record above .500 made for a banner Morshead, and junior captain Matt important." Dame wants to get their first win of the year and an invitation to the Liberty Osiecki will also contribute to the scor­Also, they can ill afford to allow "a season and demonstrate that IrishBowl. ironically against BC, was a big ing. Greg Louder will handle the referee the opportunity to make a call hockey belongs among the nation's elite. 
deal. Meanwhile, at the same time, the 
Irish look to spike two MCC foes 
Water polo
Eagles were steadily improving until 1984 when Boston College burst upon the national scene with a guy who is 

plays Findlay, 
as tall as I am at quarterback. 
.
aga1n
Both my parents went to Boston College, and I was introduced to the 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer
Eagles at an early age. When Doug Flutie started proving the critics wrong, my family was there for every 
The University of Notre
bit of the action. I remember watching Dame water polo team willthat Miami game which ended with travel to Findlay, Oh .. thisthat little pass which made highlight weekend for the Midwesternfilms for the rest of the year. 
Regional Championships,After Flutie graduated, Lou Holtz 
hosted by Findlay University. 
carne to Notre Dame to resucitate an The Irish take a 1-2 record enemic football program and everyone 
into this tournament
here knows the rest of that story. 
following their debut October 10, also held at
My problem when it comes right Findlay University. The
down to it is that I would like to see team suffered close losses at
both teams to win. Lou, in his weekly the hands of varsity teams
press conference this week, talked 
Findlay and Michigan State,
about Cinderella seasons and how but bounced back to pummel
much fun they are. 
Ohio University, 23-3. 
Not too many people expected Boston Under the leadership and
College to make the splash that its experience of player/coaches
made this year. Who would have Tony Boczkowski, Joe
thought the Eagles would have sent the Dummer, and Josh Schaffer,
Nittany Lions running to the Big Ten the team has come together
with their tails between their legs. '-; 
. : .· ~d The Eagle fan in me doesn't want the ;:~?' ',-;,;;<c, . 
and prepared itself well for 
.· ·..· :' ....·. -~ . 
the competition. Led by to finish up the year at 11-0-1. . 'i~~,~~~/.. 
fairytale to end, but for Boston College 
brothers John and Eric Schultz, Chris O'Hara, and
Then, there's the Irish in me that The Observer/Jake Peters freshmen Brain Wood and
wants to see the Notre Dame team stay Defense leads the 21st ranked Notre Dame volleyball against Dayton and Xavier this weekend. The Walter Morrissey, the Irish
within the top-1 0 and who doesn't Irish, 2-0 in conference play, are on a quest to defend their MCC title. want to listen to my parents gloat 
will hope to challenge some By DAN PIER better than we were." 
of the best varsity teams inabout their school winning for the rest 
Sports Writer Dayton is led by junior middle blocker 
the Midwest, including
of the year. 
Cathy Wojciechowski. who sports a .349 
Eastern Michigan, BowlingWhat it comes down to is that I think attack percentage, and junior setter Jamie 
Green, Miami (Oh.), and
that Boston College will probably win The Notre Dame volleyball team continues Kirch. 
Southern Illinois. 
the game. But I wouldn't mind if Notre 
its quest for supremacy in the Midwest Col­Like the Flyers, Xavier (19-9. 3-2) returns 
"We're in the harder
Dame proves me wrong and beats the 
legiate Conference with a weekend its team basically intact from last year. 
bracket, but if we win our
Eagles. 
doubleheader on the road. The Irish (22-5, Notre Dame defeated the Musketeers last 
first game, we should be
2-0) will play at Dayton on Friday and travel year as well. Brown anticipates the same 
able to place in the top four," 
to Xavier on Saturday. The team needs two kind of offense from Xavier, and believes that 
said team captain Brian
INSIDE SPORTS 
wins to keep pace with undefeated Loyala in her team is well prepared. 
Coughlin. "We feel pretty
the MCC standings. "Xavier has a fast attack," Brown 

IICrew heads South see page 29 
~ilmore transferring see page 29 
IISwimmers take on BGU see page 30 
good about our chances this
Dayton (24-5, 5-1) boasts an experienced explained. "We have confidence in our 
weekend." 
team featuring basically the same personnel blocking and should be able to shut them 
Notre Dame will be 
as last season. Notre Dame topped Dayton down." 
shooting to place in the top
easily a year ago, but this year's edition is Xavier features senior outside hitter Mary 
four at this tournament in 
more seasoned and has gained confidence Nock, with 3. 7 kills per game, and senior 
order to move on to the Big
with its success thus far. setter Jennifer Nunn, who averages 9. 7 
Ten Championships
"I expect that we'll see a better team than assists a game. 
November 14, hosted by
we did last year," says Notre Dame head Notre Dame is heavily favored to repeat as 
Northwestern University, 
coach Debbie Brown. "But we have most of 
see POLO I page 27
see SPIKE I page 28 
our players back, too, and I know we're
[' 
I~ 
{; 
J 
----~---­
Irish Foo-tball 

A Supplement to The Observer 
GAME NOTES 
E GAME: Notre Dame (6-1-1) vs Boston College (7 -0-1 ). 
KICKOFF: 1:35 p.m. EST. 
V and RADIO: NBC Sports (Tom 

Hammond. Cris Collinsworth an 
John Dockery) will broadcast the 
game nationally. Mut·ual Radio 
etwork (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna} 
will broadcast the game to a 
national radio audience. 
TICKETS: Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) Is. sold out for the 105th .consecutive game. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP: 8th, USA Today/CNN: 8th. Boston College: AP: 9th, USA Today/CNN: 
th. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads the series 3-0,., .This series will continue 
;. 
every season for at least the next 
decade 
THE LAST TIME: At home, in 1987. Notre Dame topped the Eagles 32­25 behind 152 rushing yards from Mark Green and a career-high 294 all-purpose yards from Tim Brown. 
LAST WEEK: Notre Dame defeated Navy 38-7. while BC topped Temple 45-6. 
FYI: RG Todd Norman.• TE Oscar McBride and FB Jerome Bettis are all scheduled to return to action this week. The trio sat out last. week's game against Navy. 

SCHEDULES 

September 5 at Northwestem W42-7 

Octnh.,jj2'l.·~B:;; __ '~t.:... -_·...'.'.;··.···.~,..·······.·.···:_:·(:: ....··:.Y___~x:·-.-:.~.~.··,·.··__ ­
-··•.?'~>.'<.···.~:-•.>rlr ~.·······. 1~
__::-~l ~~ ~~~ 
Oct~~.lfi; . at~ / ,. . w_~~7 Novembe~~A';;;BOSTONIOLLEGE ­Novemberfi4 ·. ~.NN STAT~\f~:,:j:t 
November 28 at USC 
IllSI(WOO IEll 
Septemeer 5 RUTGERS W37-20 Septerrter 1.2 NORTHWESTERN W49-0 Septenter 19 NA'ti W28-0 Septemm 26MICHIGANSTATE W14-0 
October3  atWestVirgtn!a  T24-24  
Octot:Ja:.17  at Penn State  w35-32  
October24 ·  atTLilane ·  ·W17-13  
October 31  TEMf!E  W45-6  

November 7 at Nob9 Dame November14 SYRACXJSE November 2) at Army 
. I .' 
A Tough Transition 
Mike Miller still settling into Irish offense 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Raw talent can get an athlete a long 
way. 
Mike Miller knows this better than anyone. The sophomore was a track star in high school, a wide receiver rated as a first-team All-American by several scouting publications. According to the Athletics Congress, Miller's times in the 100 and 200 meters ranked third among American high school students. 
But genetically-determined abilities don't do it all for Miller anymore. As a receiver in Notre Dame's ground­oriented offense, the 5-7, 155-pounder has had to develop new skills in order to succeed. 
"I have needed to stop counting on my speed," said Miller, who has caught 10 passes this season. "I have had a lot to learn, and I realize that right now I am still not as sharp as I should be." 
Miller used to rely on speed alone to get open for passes. His 4.35 time in the 40 gave him the ability to dust defensive backs ofT of the line of scrimmage. Miller showed a flash of his speed when Rick Mirer connected with the sophomore on a 70-yard touchdown pass in the season opener against Northwestern. 
But at other times, Miller has been disappointing. He has dropped several passes and seemed confused on the field at times, prompting criticism by fans and press alike. But Miller contends that he is still learning the Notre Dame system. 
"Ray Griggs has been here for four years. Adrian Jarrell also knows a whole lot about our ofl'ense," Miller said. "If you asked them to name 100 plays that we run, they could probably name 98 or 99 right off the top of their heads. But right now, I can only name 40. 
''I'm not comfortable going out there and having to know exactly what to do. 
The Observer/ Macy Hueckel Wide receiver Mike Miller alludes the BYU defense in the Irish's 42-16 win two weeks ago. Though the sophomore has shown flashes of brillance, he has still not become a consistent contributor to the Notre Dame offense. 
The older receivers can read defenses and find holes immediately. But I haven't been able to do that well yet." 
Since Miller first arrived at Notre Dame in August of 1991, he has been on an emotional and physical rollercoaster. 
A hamstring injury during his first week of freshman practice slowed the heir apparent to Raghib "Rocket" Ismail to a crawl. Miller had not recovered from the injury when he was put in as Notre Dame's punt and kick returner during the early-season matchup be­tween the seventh-ranked Irish and number three Michigan. 
In that nationally-televised game, Miller was swamped by the Wolverines' coverage units, netting only 24 yards on four returns. The disappointing performance, combined with general homesickness and confusion about his place at Notre Dame, prompted the freshman to return home to Missouri City, Tex. 
After much time spent soul searching and completing part-time classes at the University of Houston, Miller decided to return to Notre Dame for the spring 1992 semester. 
"I was here last spring, and that allowed me to adapt to life here," said Miller. "This season, I have a whole semester under my belt." 
But even after his return, doubts lingered about Miller's commitment and his ability to succeed at Notre Dame. But Miller insists that any questions about his dedication to the Irish football team are 
· unfounded. 
"People have a tendency to feel sorry for me because of what happened last year," said Miller. "But I look forward to being out on the fieltl, and I always give 100 percent. I want to be able to help in any way possible." 
Miller helps the Irish in several ways. His most visible position is that of kickoff and punt returner. His punt return aver­age has hovered at about nine yards all season, but in a high risk situation, which can pay ofT with big gains, he has been one broken tackle away from sev­eral touchdown runbacks. And though Miller has returned only six kickofl's this 
season, his average holds at 33 yards per 
return. 
"I've probably had four or five opportunities to break touchdowns," said Miller. "I just try to go back and watch for things to happen in front of me." 
Not too much has been happening in front of Miller as a wide receiver. With Holtz's return to smash-mouth football in recent weeks, the Notre Dame wideouts have had to change their outlook. 
Now, instead of being the staple of the Irish offense, they are a device to help Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis burst through the offensive line. 
"I don't regret the return to the run," said Miller. "We as wide receivers have the opportunity to open up the offense. When things aren't going right, we have the chance to change that." 
At this point in the season, things seem 
"The older receivers can read defenses and find holes immediately. But I haven•t been able to do that yet." 
-Mike Miller 
to be going right for the Irish. Riding a three-game winning streak, the Irish have three tough games ahead of them on the road to a New Year's Day bowl game. 
But the first barrier is a Boston College team which is fired up to play the only other Catholic school in Division 1-A football. 
"Everybody is going to be up to play Notre Dame.,. said Miller. "If they could come in here and beat us that would make their whole season. 
"But Notre Dame is expected to win every week and win the national championship. That was one of the reasons I decided to come here. I want to win a national championship."

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Miller breaks up a potential interception against Purdue. 
page2 Notre Dame vs. Boston College Friday, November 6, 1992 
Eagles' all-around talent to test Irish 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The ninth-ranked Eagles of Boston College (7-0-1) are land­ing in Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday for a battle with the eighth-ranked Fighting Irish (6­1-1). 
BC comes into the game rid­ing an emotional wave after upsetting Penn State in October and flying to its best record and highest ranking since the days of Doug Flutie. 
In addition, both schools bring potent offenses into the game with Notre Dame sporting the second most productive offense in the country into the game and Boston College boasting the sixth-ranked offense. 
"The biggest problem they pose is that they can both run and throw. You've got to find a way to stop (tailback Chuckie) Dukes, find a way to stop (quarterback Glenn) Foley, and then you've got to figure out a way to move the football against a defense that's one of the top 10 in the country," said Holtz about the Eagle football team. 
The Boston College offense presents a much different challenge then the top-rated Brigham Young offense which the Irish shut down two weeks ago because the Eagle attack features a deadly passing game which has tended to move the ball well in the air as well as a aggressive rushing corps. Three times this season, BC has racked up over 500 yards of total offense. 
The Eagles are led by junior quarter­back Glenn Foley who is rated third in the nation. Foley has completed 95 out of 167 passes for 1,524 yards in eight games for eleven touchdowns. The BC quarterback had a banner day in the upset against Penn tailback Chuckie Dukes heads the crew with 1,024 total rushing yards already this year. 
"He runs the ball a lot bigger then what he is," said Holtz of Dukes. "He has tremendous peripheral vision and does a tremendous job of finding the gaps and not many backs can do that. With his overall speed and quickness, he can find the hole and run through it." 
Fullback Darnell Campbell is still recovering from a knee injury, but was able to post a 100-plus yard game against Tu­lane. Fellow fullback Dwight Shirley is also building up some impressive numbers in the Ea­gle backfield. 
The Irish defense which con­tinues to improve will try and prevent an air raid of the Sta­dium with a secondary which has shot down some of the bet­ter pass offenses in the country in the last few weeks. Notre Dame also possesses a strong rush defense. 
The Boston College defense would like to register its fourth shutout of the year against an Irish offense which has moved the ball well recently. The Eagles' defense is currently ranked seventh nationally, giving up an average of 11 points per game and have given up less then 100 total points so far 
this season. 
Holtz ex­
pressed con­
cern over the 
Eagle defense. 
"I'm concerned 
about how we're 
going to move the 
ball offensively. 
They don't give up 
the big play and 
they tackle well," 
said Holtz. 
Leading the defense 
will be All-American candidate and inside linebacker Tom ~cManus and fellow linebacker Stephen Boyd. McManus 
has been named the Big East Defensive 
Player of the ~==-.,...,....,....---~,._..,.--' 
Week twice 
State running a "two­Eagles' QB Glenn Foley this year for 
minute offense" that produced two touchdowns in 57 seconds going into halftime. 
"I don't compare quarter­backs," said Holtz when asked to compare Foley and Rick ~irer. "Foley is an outstanding quarterback. Both are very tal­ented. Both are very unselfish and both play in football orga­nizations that are predicated on the run. Rick Mirer has more pressure because he is called upon to run the option." 
Foley's prime receivers in­clude split end Clarence Can­non, flanker Keith Miller and tight end Pete Mitchell. Mitchell leads the team with 28 recep­tions for 441 yards while Can­non has racked up 279 yards on 1 7 catches and Miller with 214 yards on 13. 
The key to the Eagle offensive attack could be the running game. Boston College enters the game with four games in which two of its backs rushed for over 100 yards apiece. Senior 
the Temple game and the Rutgers game. Boyd has 86 total tackles this year including four sacks. 
The BC secondary hopes to be equal to the task of keeping the ball out of the hands of Mirer's receivers. 
Free safety Charlie Brennan and cornerback Joe Kamara are looking to pick the pockets of the Irish as they have five and three interceptions respectively. Also in the defensive backfield will be strong safety Eric Shorter and cornerback Michael Reed. 
The defensive line is a com­bination of experience and freshness with two seniors, John Stolberg and Mike Mari­naro, and a redshirt freshmen, Chris Sullivan. The outside linebackers, Dan Kerr and Ja­son Pohopek, have combined for seven sacks for 4 7 yards. 
Two excellent defenses and two excellent offenses. Brace yourself. 


1 Tivo Concepcion2 Tony Ransome 3 Mitchell Carr  SE RB CB  6-0 170 5-11 171 5-11 190  So. Fr. Fr.  52 Bart Bakelaar 53 Tom McManus 54 Tim 0' Brien  ILB ILB c  6-2 6-2 6-3  198 240 257  So. Sr. Fr.  
4 Kenyatta Watson 5 Joe Kamara  WR CB  6-0 5-8  170 170  Fr. So.  55 56  Erik Lyman Ed Sanabria  LB ILB  6-3 6-1  225 214  Fr. Fr.  
6 Eric Shorter 7 Tom Caito  DB CB  5-10 180 5-8 166  Jr. So.  57 John Stolberg58 Tim Morabito  NG 6-2 OLB 6-3  254 240  Sr. Fr.  
8 Jeff Ryan 9 Justin Pippy1 0 Mark Hartsell  QB QB QB  6-2 6-1 6-5  207 192 210  Fr. Fr. Fr.  59 60 61  Mike Mamula Greg Pep~rBen Velis ka  OLB 6-5 OG 6-4 OT 6-5  232 275 272  Fr. So. So.  
11 12 13 14  Jeff Beckley Steve Bowen Glenn Foley David Gordon  KIP QB QB K  6-2 175 6-4 200 6-2 208 5-11 1n  So. So. Jr. Jr.  62 63 64 65  Mike Marinaro Greg Landry Tom Nalen Josh Porter  DT OG c OT  6-3 6-4 6-3 6-7  265 280 266 269  Sr. Fr. Jr. Fr.  
15 Jermaine Woods  CB  5-10 190  So.  66  Pete Kendall  DL  6-5  251  Fr.  
16  Sean Wright  K  5-11 160  Jr.  67  Ron Stone  OT  6-5  295  Sr.  
17  Michael Reed  CB  5-9  173  So.  70 Dan Oriskovich  OT  6-4  285  Fr.  
18 19 20  Michael Campbell Brett Bleeker Greg Grice  FL KIP SE  6-3 6-4 5-9  206 175 182  So. Fr. Fr.  71 Mark Nori 72 Ed Ranagan 73 Otto DelaCruz  OL DT DL  6-4 6-6 6-2  270 280 255  Fr. Fr. So.  
21 23 24 25  Clint KuboyamaKeith Miller Rupert English Rob Clifford  DB FL RB CB  5-11 177 5-11 165 6-2 235 6-1 182  So. Jr. Fr. Fr.  7 4 Mark Borrelli OG 75 Nelson Long OG 76 Brian VanDenBerghe OT 78 Brian O'Connor OL  6-5 6-6 6-6 6-5  287 275 264 280  Jr. Jr. Fr. Fr.  
26  Steve Marciano  CB  5-7  180  So.  79  Dan Britten  OT  6-5  268  Sr.  
27  Clarence Cannon  SE  5-11 160  So.  80  Brent Gibbons  TE  6-6  235  Fr.  
28  Charlie Brennan  ws  5-11 167  Sr.  81  Pete Klein  TE  6-3  225  So.  
30  David Green  RB  5-11 184  So.  82  Pete Mitchell  TE  6-2 . 224  So.  
32 33  Darnell Campbell Chuckie Dukes  RB RB  6-2 5-9  215 185  Sr. Sr.  83 Ivan Boyd 84 Bob Bicknell  FL TE  6-0 6-3  167 230  Jr. Sr.  
34 35  Chris Campell Keith Kormanik  RB DB  5-11 209 5-11 183  Fr. Fr.  85 86  Russell Durham Brian Saxton  OLB 6-2 TE 6-6  232 250  Sr. So.  
36 John Duartes  RB  5-10 205  Fr.  87  Bill Norcross  TE  6-6  250  Jr.  
37 Mike MacGuire 39 Tom Wilson  RB FB  5-11 190 5-10 194  So. So.  88 Tony Schwartz 89 Chris Harwick  TE TE  6-1 6-4  213 250  So. Fr.  
40 Joe DeNucci 41 Dwight Shirley 42 Justice Smith  RB FB RB  5-9 174 5-11 215 5-10 180  Jr. So. Fr.  90 Ted Page91 Dan Kerr 92 Nick Gianacakos  DT 6-4 OLB 6-3 TE 6-6  253 230 240  Jr. Jr. Fr.  
44  Matt Haff  TE  6-3  225  Fr.  93  Chris Sullivan  DT  6-5  249  Fr.  
45 Brian Howlett 46 Jason Pohopek47 David Jones  ILB 6-0 OLB 6-2 OLB 6-2  234 222 219  Jr. Sr. So.  94 95 96  Carlton Campbell Derek Hughes Matt Goulet  OLB 6-0 NG 6-0 DT 6-3  208 252 269  Sr. So. So.  
49 Terence Wiggins 50 Stephen Boyd 51 Mike Panos  DB ILB ILB  6-2 6-1 6-2  180 233 235  Fr. So. Jr.  97 Joe O'Brien 98 Gordon Laro 99 Stalin Colinet  DL TE DL  6-4 6-3 6-6  250 260 225  Fr. So. Fr.  

When the Eagles have the ball 
Probable starters in boldface. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E 1 
FLANKER
ag e 
23-1111111 M,,.... 5-11. 155. JR. 
83-tvan Boyd s-o, JR.
offense 
QUARTERBACK 
13-GIIU fofey t-2, 289, JR. 8-Jeff Ryan 6-2, 202, FR. 1G-Mark Hartsell 5-4, 
FULLBACX 
32-01111111 Cl.,all H,%33,1R. 41-Dwight Shif1ey 5-11, 2"19, so. 30-David GriMl 5·11, 
RIGHT GUARD ........ ,llldall t-5, 214, FR. 
74-Mark Borrelli 6-5,279, 
RIGHT TACKLE 17·RDA Stone t-5, 2•. SR. 61-Ben Velishka SO. 
SPLIT END 
CORNERBACK
U·Ciarence Canaon 
llo&retl.lnt
LEFT TACKLE 5-11,111, so. H,181,JR. 79-Dtn Brl1tu 20-Greg Grice 
TACKLE
6-11, m, SR. 5-9, 176, FR. 
110-Briullllndlrln
65-Josh Porter 
&-a.m.ID. 6·7, 2n, FR.' . 52-Gei~Nif!e Holden 6-4, 24&. SJ). 
~ior9ryant
&4. 279.SR. 

, 
OUTSIDE lt!IIIEBACKER 
118-Kirmullylh McGill 8-3,233••• 30-Nick S!1!lth 6-2, 229, SR. 
INSIDE~ 
liNEBACKER 41-AIIIhony l'wtefloll 1-1. 223•.Ill. 46-Brian Ratigan6-5, 231, SR. 
STRONG SAFETY 
9-Jefl krrls 5-8, 204, JR.. 17-Brian Magee 

' 
5-H, 195. FR. 
t 
Irish defense 

Friday, November 6, 1992 Notre Dame vs. Boston College page 3 
-
Despite success, Taylor not content 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
When Bobby Taylor was growing up in Longview, Tex. there was almost always a touch football game or a bas­ketball game going on in his neighborhood, and most of the time he was a part of them. 
"In my free time, I would al­
47 Pete Berctch LB 6-1 237 Jr.
1 Derrick Mayes WA 6-0 205 Fr
2 LeShane Saddler CB 194 48 Renaldo~n DE 6-3 230 Fr. ways go out and play some kind
5-10 Jr. 
48 Deswood itty FS 5-11 180 Sr.
3 Rick Mirer OB 6-2 215 Sr. of sport," the freshman defen­
49 Anthonle Peterson LB 6-0 223 Jr.
4 Lee Becton TB 5-11 190 So. 

50 Greg Sec DT 6-2 250 So. sive back recalled.
5 Paul Failla OB 6-2 193 So. Bobby Taylor
6 Jerome Bettis FB 5-11 254 Jr. 51 Stuart Tyner OG 6-4 282 Sr. Taylor started playing orga­
7 Dean Lytle FB 6-2 240 Jr. 52 Germaine Holden DE 6-4 245 So. basketball team after January
8 Clint Johnson 53 Jim Kordas OG 6-5 271 So. nized football in the fourth­
SE 5-8 180 Jr. 1, if his grades and his body al­
9 Jeff Burris FS 6-0 204 Jr. 54 Just1n Goheen LB 6-2 226 So. grade Pee-Wee league and was
54 Andrew Mims OT 6-2 270 Fr. low him to do so.
10 Adrian Jarrell FL 6-0 194 Sr. competing in basketball leagues 
55 Oliver Gibson DT 6-3 275 Jr.
11 Tom MacDonald OB 5-11 175 So. "If my grades are at a satis­
12 Kevin Pendergast K 5-10 168 Sr. 56 Hunue;{ Bakich DE 6-2 217 So. by sixth grade. 
13 Tom Carter CB 5-11 191 Jr. 56 Steve rmbruster c 6-0 205 So. Longview factory level, and if I'm healthy, ..
When he got to
13 Matt Johnson QB 5-11 192 Sr. 57 Bernard Mannelly DT 6-4 270 Sr. I want to play basketball," Tay­
58 Jeremy Nau DE 6-4 234 So. High School, the versatile Tay­
14 6-1 200
Ray Grig~s SE Sr. 59 Lance Johnson c 6-1 277 Sr. lor explained. "So far, I'm doing
14 Stephen ope FS 6-3 199 Jr. lor added track to his 
15 Kevin McDougal 60 Adam Kane OL 6-3 238 Fr. pretty well." I
QB 6-2 190 Jr. repertoire. Despite the year­
16 Chris Parenb 5-11 193 Jr. 60 Ross Mihalko DE 6-1 215 So. I
QB But right now Taylor is con·
16 Joe Smith CB 6-0 175 Sr. 61 Tim Ruddy c 6-3 286 Jr. round athletic competition, he I 
17 Brian Magee DB 5-11 195 Fr. 62 Mike McCullough DT 6-3 274 Fr. centrating on his first love,
excelled at all three sports. I
63 Jason Beckwitti OG 6-2 238 Jr.
18 Wade Smtih QB 6-4 180 Fr. football, where he has settled in 
18 Stefan Schroffner 160 64 Steve Mise tic OL 6-5 266 Fr. On the gridiron, he was a USA I
K 5-9 So. 
65 Linds~ Knapp OT 6-6 282 Sr. as the Irish's free safety ahead 1
19 Mark Swenson FL 5-8 152 Jr. Today and Parade first team
19 Jim Guerrera OB 6-0 176 Sr. 66 Todd orman OG 6-6 297 Sr. of junior John Covington. Notre
67 Mark Zataveski OG 6-5 295 So. All-American selection as a
20 Mark Andrzejewski ss 5-B 164 So. 
68 Jeff Riney c 6-4 268 So. Dame head coach Lou Holtz ·1
20 Lamar Guillory CB 5-9 190 Sr. senior. Following the football 
21 Bobby "(,%lor DB 6-3 190 Fr. 69 David OUISt DT 6-5 248 Fr. does not like to give playing
70 Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 Jr. season, he averaged 16 points
22 Shawn ooden FL 5-10 177 So. time to freshmen, but Taylor's l
22 Rob Leonard K 6-1 186 Jr. 71 Herbert Gibson OT 6-5 289 So. per game in basketball to earn 
23 Jeff Baker SE 5-11 183 Sr. 72 Ryan Leahy OT 6-4 290 So. talent has forced Holtz to go 1 
73 Justin Hall OT 6-4 304 Sr. Texas SA Player of the Year l
23 LaRon Moore CB 5-9 177 So. against his philosophy.
24 Charles Stafford SE 5-10 176 So. 74 Will Lyell OL 6-5 263 Fr. honors, an award also won by
25 Mike Lalli 5-11 201 75 Aaron Ta~or OG 6-4 299 Jr. Nonetheless, Taylor is some­
FS Sr. former Irish guard Elmer
76 DT 272 Fr.
25 Brent Boznanski PK 6-4 185 Jr. JeremlA ers 6-5 what surprised at his spot in the 
26 Drew Marsh 77 Dus!Y ei~ler OL 6-6 240 Fr. Bennett.
K 6-0 187 Jr.
26 Mark Monahan DB 6-0 Fr. 78 Jordan Ha ter OT 6-7 292 Sr. starting lineup.
180 As if that were not enough, he 
27 Tracy Graham ss 5-1 0 197 So. 79 Tyler Young OL 6-4 275 So. "Before the season started, it 
27 David Fuentes FB 5-9 198 Jr. 80 Oscar McBride TE 6-5 251 Jr. ran a 10.8 100 meter dash and 
81 Rich Sau~et TE 6-4 218 So. was one of my goals to start,
28 Craig Hentrich KIP 6-1 186 Sr. triple jumped 46 feet for the 
29 John Covmgton ss 6-2 211 82 William ollard SE 6-4 226 Sr. but I didn't expect to be playing 
Jr. 83 Mike Miller FL 5-7 157 So track team. On top of every­
30 Nick Smith DE 6-2 229 Sr. this much," Taylor explained. 
31 Demetrius DuBose LB 6-2 238 Sr. 83 Mark Holdener TE 6-2 215 So. thing, he was also captain of all 
32 Willie Clark TB 5-1 0 185 Jr. 84 lrv Smith TE 6-3 253 Sr. three squads. Taylor has impressed Holtz is 
85 Robert Hughes TE 6-7 256 Jr.
33 Gr~Lane CB 5-9 180 Jr. his first year at Notre Dame. 
34 Ray ellars FB 5-11 218 So. 86 Ben Foos DT 6-3 226 Fr. Taylor hopes to continue to 
86 Max Dieterle SE 5-11 170 So. "Bobby Taylor has a great
35 Matt Adams FB 6-0 235 Sr. show his all-around athleticism
36 Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 So. 87 Lake Dawson FL 6-1 202 Jr. awareness and great athletic
BB Leon Wallace TE 6-3 268 Fr. at Notre Dame. He has already
36 Jim ~r~abright LB 5-10 215 So. 89 Karmeeleyah McGill DE 6-3 233 Sr. ability. He is a talented person
37 Trav1s av1s FS 6-0 192 So. displayed his talents for the 
38 Rick Lozano TB 5-10 189 Sr. 89 John l(ouris TE 6-4 227 Fr. with tremendous maturity for a
90 Brian Hamilton DT 6·3 275 Jr. football team, starting three
38 Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 212 Fr. 
91 Anthony Jones DE 6-4 242 Fr.
39 Matt Lahey CB 6-1 165 Sr. games in the defensive back­see TAYLOR/ page 3 
92 John Taliaferro DT 6-4 261 So.
40 Reg%ie Brooks TB 5-8 211 Sr. 93 Paul Grasmanis DT 6-3 265 Fr. field, but he plans to join the
41 Joe ai_Jey LB 6-1 218 Fr. 
94 Reggie Fleurima DT 6-3 262 So.
42 Alton Ma1den DE 6-3 260 Fr.
43 Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 224 Fr. 95 Jumor B~ant 6-4 279 Sr. 
96 Thomas noght ~~ 6-4 231 Fr.
43 Tim Klusas TB 5-8 192 So. 
Chuckie Dukes racing 
44 Jim Flanigan 97 B~antYoung DT 6-3 277 Jr.
DT 6-2 276 Jr.
45 Devon McDonald DE 6-4 241 Sr. 98 Pee Chryplewicz TE 6-5 233 Fr. 
99 Cliff Stroud DT 6-2 264 Fr.
45 John ~nch WR 6-2 185 Fr.
46 Brian atigan DE 6-5 231 Sr. 
into BC record books 
By CRAIG FALZONE doing a great job. " Heights Sports Writer "He gave us a shot in the arm again, as he's done so many 
Chuckie Dukes entered last times. Chuckie 's played ex­Saturday's contest versus tremely well, there's no ques­Temple University sporting tion about it. The interesting 
DEPTH CHARTS some pretty respectable num­thing about it is the number of bers: 840 yards rushing, good people he runs over on the enough for eighth in the nation; way," BC head coach Tom six straight games with 100-Coughlin said of Dukes.
When the Irish have the ball 
plus yards; two huge runs in the Dukes is a human develop­
Probable starters in boldface. 
historic toppling of Penn State. ment major from Albany, New SPLIT END But by game's end he would York. After starring at Colonie 
~-Lab Dawson 8-1, 202, JR. 
RIGHT CORNERBACK
1-0errick Mayes 6-0, 205, FR. 
17-MicbHI fiMd 
walk off the field firmly High School there he attended 
8-Ciint Johll50n 5-8, 180, JR. 
82-WIIIIam Pollard 6-4, 226, 5-1,173, so established as one of the best Dean Junior College in 
2-Tony Ransome
TACKLE RIGHT TACIQE runners in Boston College his­Franklin, Mass. where he was 
65-LindlaY Knapp IH, 217, SR. 5-9, 162, FA. 
76-Mike McGlinn 6-6, 285, JR. 113-CIIrll SuMMa tory. twice named All-American. Last 
8-5,1&5, fR. 
The senior tailback became year, Dukes· first at BC, he
97·Jot O'Brien 
' 
f>-4. 270, FR. only the eighth back in BC rushed just 97 times, but man­GUARD F history to reach the 1 ,000 yard aged to amass 612 yards for a 75-Aarol Taylor 1-4, 298, JR. mark in a season. He finished 6.3 yards per carry average. His 
H-LaiiCI JoJmson s-1, m. SR. 
the day with an astounding 184 reported 4.58 time in the 40­
yards rushing and three yard dash ranks him among the touchdowns. Dukes' one-yard fastest on the team. scamper around the right end Dukes is BC's first 1 ,000-yard 
NOi&GUAAO 
if-John !tlall_...~ OUTS( allowed Dukes' most incredible rusher since Jim Bell in 1987. 
1-2.87, SR. liNE..··------run of the day was a 70-yard Dukes, with 1,024 yards now,
>t 58-Tim Morabito 4&-.lllen.......,. 
6-3, 25-4, FA. 1-2, 224, SR. touchdown burst. Dukes broke seems a sure bet to break the 85-f\uss Durham through the line over the right Eagles' top single season output
6-2, 235, SR. 
side, cut back left, literally of 1, 289 yards, set by Mike
GUARD 
·,.· ..
08-Tolftl Norman trampled one Temple defender Esposito in 1973. .. 
.· IH,219,SR. 
· ;. 67-Marl( who dared take on Dukes solo, Reaching 1,000 yards was "a Zataveski and then outran the pack to the little something that I've always 
fH'i, 282, so. 
__,·
INSIDE 
end zone. wanted to do. The coaches and 
LINEBACKER WEAK SAFETY 
"Well, that guy hit me a cou­all these guys had faith in me to
&3-Ttlll McMia•o 21-CIIIrtll 8rHMII TACKLE 8-!,W,SR. s-11, 1n. SR. ple of plays before that and I do it, and I'm just out there 
73-Jatln Hall 45-Srian Howlett 25-Rob Clifford 
went down, so I thought 'This trying to respond. Most of all
1-4, 3114, SR. 6-{), 227, JR. 6-1, 182, FR.
72-Ryan Leahy 51-Mtke Panos time he ain't getting me!' I al­I'm happy for the guys as a 
6-4, 290, SO. 
6-2, 235, JR. most got caught at the end team. because they really help 
though," Dukes said. me out a lot as a football player 
STRONG SAFETY Dukes again made the high­and as a person." 
&-Eric SINHter light films in the third quarter Dukes summed up his play.
LEFT TACKLE 5-11, 118, JR.
&NIIIU Marinaro LINEBACKER 49-Terence Wi(lll;aa when he sprinted around the "I'm just out there running the 11-3,281. SR. 
75-Ne!son Long 51·S1111bU ...,.. 6-2, 180, FR. . left side and raced 43 yards to ball," he said matter-of-factly, lH'i, 275, JR. ..1.233, so. 
the goal line, untouched, for his "you know, trying to do my best 
56-e.O sanallria 
6-1. 223, so. third and final touchdown of the to help Boston College win." game.
Ol!'"""'""'----'
EIID liNEBACKER "I turned the corner and that Dukes is surely a star on the 
Smlll!_l-3, 263, SR. 
t.Mndc 6-5, 251. JR t1-Dft Kerr Eagle was it," Dukes commented. rise, and he's finally beginning 
Cllryplewlcz 6-~. l3S, FR. . 6-4, 222,JR. 
88-Leon Wallace 6-3, 268. FR 59-Mllcei,Aimula defense "There was a huge hole, I mean to slide into the limelight. 
6'-:i. 2,.)'7, Ff( '--'-'---------..J anybody could've run through "It looks to me like he's really it. The (offensive) line has been deserving of it," Coughlin said. 




----~~---~-~ 
~--------------------------------------------------·~--------------------------------------------­
page 4 Notre Dame vs. Boston College Frida~November6, 1992 
Peterson no longer forgotten 
By JASON KELLY after several lackluster perfor­school," he admits. "In the off­Sports Writer mances. season I am able to focus on "It's a team game. How the school more." He is the forgotten man on defense plays is a reflection of Tomorrow he will focus on Notre Dame's defense. how I play," he said. "We're far stopping an explosive Boston 
Throughout his career, junior from where we could be, but we College offense that averages linebacker Anthony Peterson need to respond the way we're 31.1 points and 465.6 total has been lost in the lengthy asked to." yards per game. Peterson's shadow of Demetrius DuBose. The Monongahela, Pa. native main responsibilities will be 
"It is easy to be overshad­has done everything that has containing quarterback Glenn owed by such a highly-ac­Foley and tailback Chuckie claimed player," Peterson said. "All I can do is Dukes, who have combined for "All I can do is play the game more than 2500 yards in total and do the best I can." play the game and offense this season. 
He has done that this season, Just his presence on the field quietly collecting 60 tackles to do the best I will be reassuring to the rest of lead the team. the Irish defense. 
It hasn't been an easy road "He's playing very well," Irish
can."
for Peterson, who switched defensive back John Covington
-Anthony Peterson
from his familiar outside said. "I feel safer with him in linebacker position to inside been asked of him, on and off there." linebacker at last year's Sugar the field. In grades, as in tack­Peterson's statistics and the Bowl. He has responded well to les, Peterson is among the team respect of his teammates make the change, but he believes he leaders. Last spring, he earned it clear that he is among the 
still has some work to do. Dean's list honors with a 3.5 team's best defensive players, 
"I'm just getting my feet wet," G.P.A. in finance. despite his lack of media atten­Peterson explained. "Right now, It is not unusual to hear Notre tion. I'm just learning the position. Dame athletes comment on the Media attention or not, one In my senior year you will see combination of the University's thing is certain-Peterson will 
my best." strong academic and athletic always play to win. He doesn't 
Peterson's best may .be ahead traditions, and Peterson is no take losses well. His most 
of him, but he is definitely different, but there is a twist. memorable moment from last 
making a huge impact this sea­"I came to Notre Dame be­season was the loss to Ten­
son. But it's an impact that he cause I wanted the best of both nessee because "pains are not 
hasn't been able to enjoy be­worlds (academic and athletic). easily forgotten." 
cause of the constant criticism But during the season it is He's right. Just ask opposing 
that the defense has drawn harder for me to concentrate on ball carriers. 
corner position I was playing," Taylor on the year and last week against Navy his mother instilled in him. 
commented. narrowly missed his first collegiate "She always pushed me to do my best,
Taylor 
A harder adjustment has been the one interception, when a ball slipped through and whatever comes from that, I should from the high school to the collegiate his hands. be satisfied with," Taylor said. "But, you 
continued from page 3 
ranks. "I read the play pretty well, and I had can't get complacent. You always have to young kid," said Holtz. ''I'm playing against bigger people," the ball in my hands," Taylor recalls. try to get better." 
Taylor started his first game against the 6'4", 190 lb. Taylor said. "Also, the "But, I was looking down the sidelines Taylor's ultimate goal is to start for Pitt, when right cornerback Greg Lane systems are more difficult, there is more and I lost my concentration. I think if I both the football and basketball teams. was injured. The following game against to study and more formations. The would have caught it, I could have had a "I've thought about that. I set goals like BYU, Lane returned, but Taylor stayed biggest adjustment has had to be touchdown." that in high school. and I'd like to do the on the first-team, shifting to free safety. mental." Most would have been thrilled with the same in college," Taylor explained. 
"It wasn't a tough adjustment because Taylor seems to have adapted quite interception, but the fact Taylor was Half of this goal has already been met, free safety is sort of the opposite of the well. He has 16 tackles and five assists thinking touchdown reflects an attitude and he still has not set foot on the 
KEEP YOUR EYES ON... . . .. · . 

..... 


GLENN FOLEY TOM McMANUS CHARLIE BRENNAN DWIGHT SHIRLEY 
< 
The junior quarterback has Senior inside linebacker is a Senior free safety is in his third Sophomore fullback leads registered 5,935 passing yards mainstay on the Eagle defense year as a starter in the Boston College in scoring with in his 29-game career. Foley's with 97 total tackles this defensive backfield. Brennan is eight touchdowns. Shirley was completion percentage has only season. McManus netted 13 ranked sixth among Division I named Big East Offensive Player been under .500 percent twice tackles last weekend for a team defenders with five of the Week for his efforts in the this year. high. interceptions this year. Michigan State game. 
,·' PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
person does against the spread. 
Jim Vogl Jenny Marten AI Lesar Mike Scrudato Molly O'Neill Rolando de Rich Kurz 
Home teams are in CAPS. 
Assistant Sports Associate South Bend Sports Editor Student Body Aguiar Associate Editor Sports Editor Tribune 46-50-2 Vice President Associate Sports Editor 50-46-2 49-47-2 46-50-2 Last guest: Sports Editor 40-56-2 6-8-0 40-56-2 FLA. ST. 25.5 over Maryland Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles
Terps SYRACUSE 16.5 over Va. Tech Orangemen Orange men Orangemen Orangemen Orange men Orang em en Orange men FLORIDA 14.5 over So. Miss. Gators Gators Golden Eagles Gators Golden Eagles Gators Golden Eagles NEBRASKA 14.5 over Kansas Jayhawks Huskers Jayhawks Jay hawks Jayhawks Jay hawks Jayhawks Michigan 34 over N'WESTERN Wolverines Wildcats Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wildcats
Wolverines 
So. Cal. 1.5 over STANFORD Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Trojans Cardinal Cardinal Trojans 
Washington 7.5 over ARIZONA Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies 
Alabama 17 over LSU Tide Tide Tide Tide Tide Tide Tigers 
INDIANA 5.5 over Iowa Hoosiers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hoosiers Hoosiers Hawkeyes Hoosiers BAYLOR 5.5 over Ga. Tech Bears Ramblin' Wreck Bears Ramblin' Wreck Ramblin' Wreck Ramblin' Wreck Ramblin' Wreck VIRGINIA 3 over N.C. State Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Wolfpack Cavaliers 
OHIO ST. 20.5 over Minnesota Gophers Buckeyes Gophers Gophers Gophers Buckeyes
BuckeyesWASH. ST. 3 over Arizona St. Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars Cougars 
NOTRE DAME 10 over 8os. Col. Eagles Eagles Irish Eagles Irish Eagles Eagles 













