


VOL. XXIV NO. 100 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SAINT MARY'S ELECTION RESULTS 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Cultural diversity class requirement discussed 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY News Writer 
Tlw possibility of a cultural divPrsity n~quirement in the CollPge of Arts and Letters was addressed at a forum last night. 
"When asked what cultural diversity is. most people can only agree that it is good." said .Jim Peterson. professor in Communication and Theatre. 
The problem most felt must bP add rPssed first was the question of what is cultural di­VPrsity. Many agreed that the range of opinion was wide. 
The suggestions ranged from dnar cut race, gender and class differences to differences in ideas. There was concern that cultural diversity could not be taught unless a definition was agrePd upon. 
Another problem that was addressed was the question of why one should study cultures. One reason given was simply to learn about another culture. 
However, many felt it was very important to see oneself from the standpoint of another culture. Most people thought that one should learn about their own culture, especially that of the United States as it continually changes and diver­sifies. 
Estevan Herrera, a senior at Notre Dame. said he believes that there is plenty of interest in "cultural" classes. having been closed out of three this year. 
"The problem is that there are not enough classes," he said. That, however, raised another problem of finding enough professors who are cul­turally qualified to teach the classes. Many felt that the Uni­versity's resources in that area are very limited. 
Some students also expressed concern that, in introducing a 
see DIVERSITY I page 4 
Physical plant director retires after 13 years 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, will re­tire February 29 after 13 years at the University. 
Dedrick's role as physical plant director included con­struction of new buildings and maintenance and renovation of all University facilities. 
During his tenure 18 build­

ings were added to the campus 
Donald Dedrick 
including The Snite Museum of Art, Stepan Chemistry Hall, De­The new construction added cio Faculty Hall,The Hesburgh during Dedrick's tenure totals 
Center for International Stud­1.52 million square feet, and ies. many of the dormitories on 1.45 million square feet were Mod Quad and the new DeBar­renovated. 
tolo classroom facility. Dedrick said that he works 
Dedrick· has also been in with the architects and engi­charge of additions to Rolfs neers to develop a program of Aquatic Center, the law school construction and then plans a building, LaFortune and several budget, which he settles with others. the executive vice-president 
In addition, Dedrick has seen and vice-president of business several renovations including affairs. those made to Sacred Heart 
see DEDRICK/ page 6 
Basillica. 
Saint Mary's elections head into runoff 
By MARA DIVIS dent of Student Activities, re­Elizabeth Petrovic took 32 per­News Writer ceived 29 percent of the vote. cent. Kelly Collins' ticket took The tickets led by presidential The ticket of Katie Damm for 29 percent, and Diane Calta's 
candidates Colleen Rhattigan 
Student Body President, April ticket with 28 percent. and Tina Carrara, will face Ehret for Vice President of Petrovic's and Collins' tickets each other in a runoff election Academic Affairs, and Jonna will also face each other in the for 1992-93 Saint Mary's stu­Kwiatkowski for Vice President runoff. 
dent body officers on Monday, 
of Student Affairs, received 28 The election for the class of according to Lori Marucut, percent of the vote. 1995, however, produced a elections commisioner. Also undetermined are the winner in the ticket led by 
Because none of the candi­
1992-93 officers for the senior Megan Zimmer. Zimmer's ticket dates received the necessary 50 and junior classes, said Maru­took 67 percent of the vote. The percent of the vote in yester­
cut. ticket led by Stephanie Rayzor day's election, a runoff election For the class of 1993, the received 29 percent. said was necessary, said Marucut. 
ticket led by Julie Marsh took Marucut. Rhattigan's ticket, which in­32 percent, the ticket led by Despite an anonymous tip cludes Ann Grant for Vice Pres­
Megan Fannon received 31 per­that the election was fraudu­ident of Academic Affairs and 
cent, and the ticket led by lent, Marucut said that the elec­
Martha Marzolf for Vice Presi­Caroline Molnar took 28 per­tions committee was extremely dent of Student Activities, re­cent. careful in tabulating the results. ceived 41 percent of the vote. 
No candidate received more "The election ran really Carrara's ticket, with Mary 
than 50 percent of the vote, so smoothly," she said. "The poll Beth Wilkinson for Vice Presi­Marsh and Fannon will face workers are all student gov­dent of Academic Affairs and 
each other in the runoff. ernment members and we 
Julie McCormick for Vice Presi-The election for the class of triple-and quadruple-checked 1994 showed the ticket led by the results." 

Concerned students and faculty gathered last night at a forum addressing the possibility of a cultural diversity requirement in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Class ·creates sculpture to 
Student honor Beeler and Hipp 
contacts 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI wanted to make a contribution News Writer to the co.mmunity-something 
police
from which people can draw An art installation created by strength." the Basic Sculpture class will To do so, the class was hoping 
The Observer Staff Report honor Notre Dame swimmers for an outpouring of con­Megan Beeler and Colleen Hipp, tributions from members of the 
A Notre Dame junior according to Greg Hendry, a Notre Dame community. 
has contacted St. Joseph member of the class. "Right now we haven't had 
County authorities and "Frank Sipos (the class in­quite the response we had 
givell ..· a statement 

structor) came to us with the hoped for," said Frank Zaffere, 
conceniiilg his involve· idea," said Hendry, "and the another class member. Never­
merit in a traffic accident class agreed that it was a pro­theless, the class plans to piece 
which .injured two Saint ject worth doing." together what they can before 
Mary's College Similar to the child abuse the reliquary is constructed 
sophQmgres earlier this display erected in the library Saturday morning. 
week, according to Sgt. concourse last fall, the art class The installation will stand for 
Chades F eirrelL will use the walk-through ten days-"it is hoped that this 
The driver, along with concept to display the Notre gentle reminder of mortality 
his attorney, camQ Dame community's thoughts and expression of various 
forw~rd Thursday and and letters about mortality and community member responses 
gave t;raffic investigators the swim team tragedy. will serve to inspire thought 
a statement admitting "The idea is that the memo­and reflection, the greatest task 
that he was the driver of rial will be a sort of reliquary," of any work of art," according 
the car that struck the said Hendry. "Our relics, to the project organizers. 
two... · womeni said though, will be the thoughts The project will also include a 
Feit.ren. and feelings of people about the plaque with the names of all 
Eli~abeth Joyce and swim team tragedy and mortal­Notre Dame students who have 
Cara McCourt were ity in general." died in the last four years. "This is not a display of tal­
· §~e. DRfV!~ t page~~,, ent," said Hendry, "we just 
see SCULPTURE/page 6 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
class. I hope this list of possible speakers helps them out: 
• 
Dan Quayle. I know that NO does not allow candidates to speak to the graduates, but they might want to make an exception here. After all, he needs the chance to prove that he is more than an overgrown Ken doll who, upon seeing a "help wanted" sign at a California McDonald's last month, declared that California's economy is turning itself around. 

• 
Dan's Secret Service guard. Anyone who can hold that job for four years without losing all semblance of sanity has to know something that we should learn. 

• 
Dr. Ruth Westheimer. I can't think of a college campus in these United States where so many graduates will need counseling be­fore being thrown into a world with 24-hour co-ed housing and NO PARIETALS! (Besides, a woman once told me that all my columns deal with sex in one way or another, and I'd hate to disappoint her now.) 

• 
David Cone, pitcher for the New York Mets. Earlier this week Cone, who finished last season with a 14-14 record and a 3.29 earned-run average, won $4.25 million in arbitration for next season. Now here's a guy who knows a thing or to about making money, a goal of most of our graduates. 

• 
Boris Yeltsin. What could help the grad­uates more than hearing from a straight­forward, honest, get-the-tough-job-done leader? But, then again, knowing the admin­istration and student government, that just might be too much of a shock for the typical Domer to take. 

• 
Lee lacocca. Seeing that many graduating seniors will have trouble finding a job, the Chrysler chairman could explain to us how he can give himself a salary seven times higher than his Japanese counterparts while his company loses millions of dollars every day. The problem is, he will be too busy blaming his problems on his Japanese counterparts instead of (gasp!) learning from them. 

• 
Elvis. One report has him alive and well in Michigan, which would mean a short distance for him to travel; plus the University would not have to pay him much (just his culinary favorite, the peanut butter and 'nana sandwich). 

• 
(I'm serious with this last one) My parents, or the parents of one of the graduating seniors. When it comes right down to it, they are the ones who always have the best advice, which is what a commencement address is supposed to be about. 


It would also be a nice way for the admin­istration to demonstrate that. despite all their episodes of closed-mindedness, insensitivity and apathy, still have their priorities straight. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Friday's Staff: Sports 
Jim Vogl
Production 
Etc.
Peggy Crooks 
Cristina Ortiz 
Bryan Nowicki 
Shonda Wilson
News 
Jeannie Shin
Frank Rivera 
Illustrator
Alicia Reale 
Dave Devine 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, February 21,1992
The Observer 
r--pp;;;;f9SS:;;;;;;U~;;;9------------------------h--..,--------. :. 
H L 0 5S"J [TIJ ~ ~ a 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
FORECAST: 
Mostly cloudy and cool today with highs 35 to 40. Cloudy and cool Saturday with a chance of rain or snow. Highs will be 35 to 40. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Albuquerque  50  26  
Atlanta  53  51  
Austin  74  47  
Baton Rouge  76  50  
Bismarck  29  20  
Boise  51  44  
Boston  43  39  
Columbia,S.C.  52  51  
Columbus  61  41  
Denver  47  21  
Des Moines  39  33  
Harrisburg  40  36  
Helena  47  39  
Honolulu  83  74  
Indianapolis  61  40  
Jackson  77  40  
Juneau  25  16  
Lincoln  44  34  
Madison  35  32  
Mpls·St. Paul  36  31  
Nashville  65  39  
Sacramento  58  53  
Salt Lake City  47  36  
Tallahassee  66  58  
Topeka  45  38  
South Bend  39  33  
Vienna  34  28  
Washington, D.C.  46  42  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS NO Student is hit by a vehicle 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-A Morrissey Hall resident was hit by a vehicle and suffered a broken wrist last night, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of security. At approximately 7 p.m., the student was riding his bicycle on Bulla Road near the student parking lot. He rode into the side of a moving vehicle, according to Hurley. The only injury suffered by the student was a broken wrist. The student was transported to St. Joseph Memorial Hospital, were he was treated and released. 
NATIONAL 
Navy to award Bronze Star Medals 
•WASHINGTON-Navy Secretary H. Lawrence Garrett III has recommended that an estimated 4,000 Navy and Marine Corps men who fought to defend the Philippines at the outbreak of World War II be awarded the Bronze Star Medal. The move offers special recognition for those who in the two service branches were forced to take part 
OF INTEREST 
•The Juggler is now accepting all types of written submissions. Please bring your poetry, fiction, drama, es­says or other to the English office, room 356 O'Shag, by today. 
liThe International Students Organization (ISO) will be holding elections today in the ISO Lounge (2nd floor LaFortune) between 2 and 6 pm. 
•students 
interested in bagpiping should come to a meeting on Sunday in the Main Room of Crowley Hall. 

•Brother 
Bill Tomes will be bringing some of his friends who are gang members from Cabrini Green and other housng projects in Chicago to the Center for Social Concerns on Saturday. They will be here to have conversations with students from 4:30-5:30 p.m. They 


MARKET UPDATE 

(:f ~ c:::1 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
in the infamous 70-mile Bataan Death March that claimed up to 10,000 Americans and Filipinos through starvation, thirst and maltreatment. Garrett's decision amounts to a one-time reversal of Navy policy that bars "blanket" awards of medals to entire units. The Army took a similar action in 1983 to recognize all its soldiers who participated in the campaign. The award is one of the military's highest awards for combat distinction. 
Residents refuse to leave town 
•CENTRALIA, Pa. -Residents who have spent their lives in this town sitting above a long-running coal-mine fire said Thursday they would stay until they die, despite an order from the state to move out within two years. State emergency officials told town leaders Wednesday that the coal-mine fire, which has been burning for 30 years, poses an "imminent danger" to the town. In letters to each of the central Pennsylvania town's 84 remaining residents, the local redevelopment authority said homes would be taken through the state's power of eminent domain if they don't accept a government buyout. Anybody who rejects the state's power will be taken to court. The coal mine fire began in 1962 and already has chased away 2,000 residents. 
appreciate the opportunity to tell about their lives and answer questions from the ND/SMC community. 
•women's Studies is sponsoring Rosalind Clark. Brown Bag Colloquia (Irish Goddesses) on Monday at 
12:15 in 304 Haggar Hall (SMC). 
•Dancers there will be an informational meeting on Monday in the Montgomery theater in LaFortune at 7 
p.m. for anyone intereste!I in trying out for the NO Porn Pon squad. 
•Off-Campus Students may pick up Weekend Wheels schedule cards at the LaFortune Information Desk. All on-campus students should see their Hall Presidents for schedules. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On February 21: 
• 
In 1866: Lucy B. Hobbs became the first woman to graduate from a dental school, the Ohio College of Dental Surgery in Cincinnati. 

• 
In 1916: The longest and bloodiest battle of World War I -the Battle of Verdun -began in France. 

• 
In 1947: Edwin H. Land first demonstrated his Polaroid Land camera, which used self-developing film that produced a black-and-white photograph in 60 seconds. 

• 
In 1965: Black activist Malcolm X was shot to death by assassins identified as Black Muslims as he was about to address a rally of several hundred followers in New York. 

• 
In 1972: President Nixon began his historic visit to mainland China. 



The Observer/Jon Novak 
Hangin' out 
Rebecca Zurcher, a Saint Mary's freshman, relaxes in her room in McCandless Hall yesterday afternoon. 
The Observer 
page 3 

Graduate students to be awarded fellowships to teach frosh seminar 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
A new program has been established in which advanced graduate students will be awarded fellowships to teach Freshman Seminar classes next year. 
According to Edward Kline, director of the Freshman Writ­ing Program, sixteen graduate students in the humanities and social sciences will be chosen for these graduate teaching fellowships. Each winner will receive a full tuition scholarship as well as an academic stipend of $8,400 for teaching two semesters. 
Kline said that this fellowship program differs from the former program, in which graduate students were chosen to teach by their individual de­partments. In the new pro­gram, they are selected by a committee consisting of the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters and representatives from the Graduate School and the Freshman Writing Program. 
Information on the new graduate teaching fellowships was sent out to all graduate students. In order to be eligible for the fellowship, Kline said that candidates must be at least in their fourth year of graduate studies. Applicants should have passed their Ph.D. candidacy examinations and currently be in the process of writing their dissertations. 
Kline added that candidates must submit a course descrip­tion and syllabus with their ap­plication to show the committee how they would conduct their Freshman Seminar Class. In the past, these proposals were made after the graduate stu­dents were selected; now, they will be used as criteria for se­lection. 
According to the fellowship program application, candi­dates are also selected based on "overall academic perfor­mance", and "their experience or promise as a teacher." 
While the program is de­signed to encourage graduate students to complete their dis­

. sertations, it is also geared to­wards the needs of freshmen. One advantage of the program, according to Kline, is that win­ning candidates will "most likely have had previous experi­ence with Notre Dame under­graduates." Kline said that while he was not dissatisfied with the teach­ing· performance of current graduate students, the new program would raise the level and quality of instruction in the Freshman Writing Program. "Advanced graduate students are done with coursework," he said, "so they would not neglect their freshman seminar duties." Kline also believed that the University-wide competition for the graduate teaching fellow­ships would bring prestige to the winning teaching fellows, increasing their marketability for the future. 

,-------------'Electronic mail' available to students 
OBCJAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary Open to ALL majors. Career and Placement Services February 24, 25, 26 
Explore Through S 
Internship Programs London, England 

1 Name____________________________________________ I Address.___________________________________________ I City State Zip.________ I Phone L_l College/University.____________ 
I Summer 0 Fall I Internship Programs  0  Spring 0 19_ language Programs  Summer Programs  
1 0 London I 0 Paris  0 Grenoble 0 Haifa  0 Greece 0 London  0 Sydney 0 USSR  
I  0 Sydn,ey 0 Washington  0 Madrid 0 Niamey  0 Madrid 0 Monaco  0 Washington  
I  0 Oxford  0 Padova  1  

L------~~~---~~-----~ 
By JOSEPH RUSSO News Writer 
With the introduction of "Electronic mail" to Notre Dame, computer buffs are now able to communicate with stu­dents at universities "literally 
anywhere  in  the  world,"  
according  to  Joel  Cooper,  
assistant  director  for  

network_!ng services. 
The Electronic mail system, called E-mail, is now available to Notre Dame students, faculty and staff at no cost. 
"It's a campus-wide system designed to provide service for 15,000 people," Cooper said. All that is required to use the sys­tem "is a desktop computer and connection to the campus net­work or a modem." 
Although mail systems have been available on main frame computers around campus, some people do not have the ability or desire to log-on to some other work system, Cooper said. 
E-mail brings this communi­cation potential to the keyboard of any Macintosh in any of the campus C'Omputing centers. To use E-mail, certain software, which the Office of University Computing (OUC) is providing free, is necessary. 
"Electronic mail addresses have been created for every student, staff and faculty mem­ber on campus," Cooper said, "although these addresses must be activated to begin using elec­tronic mail." 
Some students have already taken advantage of E-mail by talking to friends who are studying abroad, and some are sending E-mail as far as Japan for free. On a larger scale, E­mail will make communication and computing at Notre Dame more cohesive, Cooper said, and usher the campus into the future of global electronic communication. 
Self-starting guidelines for E­mail are available at the com­puter centers in both LaFortune and O'Shaughnessy Hall. The OUC will also provide training courses. Information is available in the Information Resource Center in Room 111 of the Computing Center/Math Building, or by calling the Re­source Center at 239-8111. 



Just 
Say 
NO 

to Drugs 
Saturday, Feb. 22, at Theodore's, 1:00 -2:30 pm 
1:00 Mr. Bill Kirk  The Cat in the Hat  
1:15 Fr. Tom McDermott  ABC  
1:30 Ms. Debra Brown  One Fish Two Fish  
1:45 Dr. Roland Smith  Green Eggs and Ham  
2:00 Circus Lunch Clown  Mr. Brown Can Moo  

-and othen ­
to benefit children of South Bend Homeless Center, donation requested at door. 

The Observer 
page 4 

Assassinations specialist discusses JFK, MLK deaths 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Jack Gordon, a 1960s assas­sinations specialist, discussed the conspiracy surrounding the assassinations or Ntartin Luther King Jr., and Robert Kennedy, and the opening of the CIA and House Select Committee on Assassinations files in a lecture last night at Saint Mary's College. 
King's murder contains too many discrepancies and. while the experts say the shot was possible, but not probable ac­eording to Gordon. 
"There were too many things that would have had to occur in too short a time," said Gordon. 
The House Select Committee on Assassinations determined that Earl Ray killed King, and that there were conspirators, and a $50,000 bounty on King's life. 
Gordon stated that more may be found if the files were opened, so that specialists could study them, and determine other possibilities to explain the assassination of King, and to determine the role the FBI could have played. 
Gordon showed evidence that has determined a possible con­spiracy in the murder of Robert Kennedy that was only discov­ered after the Los Angeles Po­lice Department released there files concerning the assassina­tion. 
"Since the files have been opened, evidence has been trickling out," said Gordon. 
Gordon believes that there will be no conelusions to the King assassination, until the files are open. "If the King files are open, several things will leak out." 

The Observer/Jon Novak 
Watch it wiggle 
Mary O'Donnell, a Saint Mary's freshman, spends her free time yesterday watching her pet fish swimming in its bowl. 

Former priest Stallings to lecture 
Special to The Observer 
Bishop George Stallings, Jr., who was excommunicated from the Catholic Church after founding the Imani Temple African American Catholic Con­gregation (AACC), will lecture at the University Monday. 
The lecture, "African Spiri­tuality as a Vehicle for Libera­tion," begins at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of Cushing Hall. 

Stallings, formerly a priest of the Catholic Archdiocese of Washington, D.C., was excom­municated from the Church two 

Diversity 

continued from page 1 
new requirement, the 
years ago after renouncing his union with his local bishop and the Pope and forming the AACC in Washington. 
A subsequent Archdiocesan announcement said that Stallings' excommunication was self-inflicted and automatic. 
The statement added that "his reported views on abortion and sexual morality are a tragic departure from the Church's vision of the value of human life, the dignity of the human person and our calling to live as the Lord's disciples." 
Stallings, however, regards himself as a Catholic and the AACC as "a blow for religious 

was that students get an op­portunity to take a class they may not have been able to take otherwise. They may not have taken the course because they could not get in or they felt it 


The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editors Day Chief Business Editor Business Copy Editor News'Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to David Kinney by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
was not fur them. Some pro-........................................................................1 
freedom" within the Catholic Church. 
"While Catholicism might be Roman," he said, ''I'm proud to say ours is African-American." 
He has recently established AACC congregations in Balti­more, Richmond, Philadelphia and New Orleans. 
Admission is $2 for students and $3 for all others. The lec­ture is sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Council. 
Smoking Stinks!!!!! 
of it, such as its definition and importance, must be pinned down. 
The forum was conducted by the Collegiate Committee on Curricular Diversity. 


Guess What ... It's Saint Mary's Night At ND Hockey 


Saturday, February 22 7:00p.m. JACC Fieldhouse Catch the excitement with a special price of $.50 with ID and SMC students can enjoy FREE SKATING following the action. (Skate rental not included.) 

~~~----~---------, 
Friday, February 21, 1992 
Illinois officials choose site for third Chicago airport 
CHICAGO (AP) -Illinois offi­cials agreed Thursday on a site for a new regional airport that could bring 200,000 jobs to the city's economically depressed Southeast Side and ease traffic at O'Hare International Airport. 
The agreement between Illi­nois Gov. Jim Edgar and Chicago Mayor Richard Daley should give the site straddling the Indiana-Illinois line near Lake Calumet the winning edge for the $10.8 billion airport. 
Indiana officials prefer a site in Gary, Ind., about 10 miles away. But Edgar and Daley be­tween them control seven of the 11 votes on a two-state com­mission that will recommend the final site to the U.S. Trans­portation Department. 
"This agreement marks the start of the economic revival of Chicago, Illinois and Indiana," said Daley, an early backer of the site. 
Edgar did not support it as late as Wednesday, but signed on after receiving concessions on control of a regional airport authority that will oversee O'Hare and Midway airports as well as the new one. 
"Everyone recognizes the im-


The Observer 
Accent Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
Assistant Accent Editors Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by Mon., February 24 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
Jeff Craig, US MAGAZINE 
"MOVIE DYNAMITE•••DETONATED BY AWARD-CALIBRE PERFORMANCES FROM GEENA DAVIS AND SUSAN SARANDON:' 
Peter Travers, ROWNG STONE 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI & SAT 7:15, 9:45 
portance of a third airport," 
said Edgar, who announced the 
agreement at a news confer­
ence with Daley. 
Indiana Gov. Evan Bayh is­
sued a statement in Indianapo­
lis expressing disappointment 
with Edgar's decision. 
"The vote .on the committee 
apparently will break strictly 
along state lines," he said. 
William Moreau, Bayh's spe­
cial counsel, said that while 
Lake Calumet also would mean 
economic benefits for northwest 
Indiana, Bayh views Gary as a 
better site because it would cost 
less to build an airport there. 
"We have been expressing for 
many months our concerns 
about the technical merits of 
Lake Calumet, the layout, the 
environmental issues, and the 
industrial relocation issue," 
Moreau said. 
Consultants have estimated 
that it would cost $3.7 billion 
just to remove hazardous waste 
from the polluted 9,800-acre 
Lake Calumet site. 
The commission is scheduled to vote Monday. Federal offi­cials have said they will abide by the commission's consensus . on where the airport should be 

The Observer/Jon Novak 
Just acting 
Juniors Dave Richardson and Michelle Bresnahan rehearse for the Cavanaugh Hall Players' production of "Nobody Loves and Albatross" which will be shown Feb. 27 -29 at Washington Hall. 
University officials volunteer for police sobriety testing program 
By MOLLIE MUDD News Writer 
Notre Dame Security and South Bend Police officers were trained Thursday in a sobriety testing program that relied on volunteers from Notre Dame's Student Affairs office and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Ed­ucation, as well as a student volunteer and four others asso­ciated with the South Bend Po­lice Department. 
The class attempted to teach officers procedures to stan­dardize field testing of sobriety. They were instructed in tests of eye movement and responsive­ness, and balance exercises such as the one-leg stand and the walk and turn test on a white line. 
The officers practiced the so­briety testing procedures on each other for two days prior to Thursday afternoon's session 
cw;:]Q~'fQI.X'fQ~M~M~II;tl;'lQr.-,;'lQr.-.;N'i!1'iN'il1'iN~IY~M 

HAPPY 

20TH 


Feb. 25th JACC 7:30PM 
Tickets still 
ouoiloble 

$12 ND/SMC Student with ID 
S18 Public 

with the inebriated volunteers. 
The volunteers consisted of seven "controlled" drinkers and one participant who had had a previous stroke that had left her "unsteady on her feet, so that she could act drunk," said Staff Sergeant Irv Sikorski of ND Security. 
Three of the volunteers were members of ND administration, Jeff Shoup and Cathy Bridge, both Assistant Directors of Residence Life and Mark Pogue, coordinator of the Alcohol and Drug Education Office. There was one student volunteer, Tom Clinton, who is the student em­ployment coordinator for Secu­rity. 
"It wasn't like we were just sitting there getting everyone drunk," Sikorski said, "It was very controlled." 
The volunteers' vital statistics were measured before the exer­cise and the amount of alcohol they were to receive was calcu­lated using their body weight. 
They were given half of their recommended amount in the first hour in a vodka mixed drink. After breaking for 20 minutes, the volunteers were given the last half of their dosage in the second hour. 
Sikorski said that "we only wanted to take two people to .10 or above." The exercise and the volunteers were care­fully monitored. 
"Controlled" drinkers were used "because we wanted our officers to be able to spot someone who is intoxicated and for the volunteers, this is not a test you can practice for, so it is pretty true-to-life," Sikorski said. 
The class was offered by the South Bend Police Regional Academy in conjunction with ND Security. Sikorski said that "we [ND Security] and the 
S.B.P.D. share space and train­ing facilities a lot." 
The class was offered for about 22 officers, 3 of whom were from ND security. 
"All of the volunteers were great sports and every one of the officers passed the class," said Sikorski. "It was a benefit all around. The officers learned standard test and the volunteers learned their limits in a controlled setting." 
Sikorski said that the class was "very positive in nature from the campus security and safety point of view, especially when these tests will be done in actuality on students." 
Recycle 

TYHE, Lebanon (AP) -An ls­ranli tank force, backed by heli­copter gunships, flattennd U.N. barricades with a bulldozer Thursday and raced into two Lnbanese villagns to hunt down Shiite Muslim guerrillas who have bHen rocketing Israel. 
'1\vo IsraHii soldiers and four Shiite guerillas were killed in the thrust at the Shiite villages of Yater and Kafra, and at least 33 people were injured. 
U.N. peacekeepers tried to block the Israeli advance, and listlights broke out before the Israeli soldiers plowed through and seized Yater and Kafra. They withdrew from somH posi­tions later in the day, and Israel said it had no plans to make an extended invasion. 
Hundreds of Shiite militiamen 
Dedrick 
continued from page 1 
"We start with a blank piece 
of paper and develop a pro­
gram ... and that program de­
velops into mortar and bricks," 
he said. 
Dedrick has won several awards for his work at Notre Dame including a presidential citation from Father Hesburgh in 198:~ and a certificate of ap­preciation from the Association of Physical Plant Administra­tors of Univnrsities and Colleges in 1987. 
lie said that he is most proud of the award from Father Hes­burgh. 
Dedrick said that he decided to retire now because he had reached social security age so it "seemed like a good time for a change." 
He plans to travel with his wife, spend more time with his grandchildren, and "be able to do some things we haven't had a chance to do over the past 40 years." 
He looks forward to his re­tirement, but he said, "It has been a rare privilege in my life to have had the opportunity to be a member of the University of Notre Dame staff and to work with members of the Notre Dame community." 
Prior to his position at Notre Dame, Dedrick held the posi­tion of business manager and physical plant director at American University in Wash­ington, D.C. Dedrick also re­ceived his undergraduate de­gree at American. 
According to Hoger Mullins, director of human resources, the University is searching for a replacement for Dedrick. 


If you see news happening, call The Observer 
JJ\ Celebrate Black History Month with 
11' s~ Books from Little
~t..t•,~: 
Professor.

-~,...~'~·'£· 
~Bo'ok"c0ENTER® 
We help you find boob you 'II /or;e.· 
H.iahway 23 at Ironwood Southbend, IN -46637 (219) 277-+488 Mon• ..S.t.:I0:00-9:00 Sun.:IO:OOS:OO 

Hezbollah militia. Israeli gun-driven off by peacekeepers. 


Driver 
continued from page 1 
injured last Sunday, Feb. 17, at approximately 2:07 a.m. when they were struck by a car as they walked along Ivy Road, near Turtle Creek Apartments. 
St. Joseph County Traffic Division investigators met with the student and exam­ined the car he was driving, he said. The student was not the owner of the car, but had borrowed it from a room­mate. 
As reported earlier, the car was damaged near the right front fender and was missing the right side-view mirror. 
"He said he decided to come forward after reading and hearing about this inci­dent in the media," said Feirrell. "He has been very cooperative with investiga­tors." 
fired since Monday were 
The reports are being com­piled by the County Prosecu­tor's office for review, Feir­rell said. The student was re­leased after questioning. 
"The response from the public after the reports in the media was tremendous," said Feirrell. "Officers were able to follow up on many leads and information re­garding this accident." 
The accident still remains under investigation, pending further follow up, according to Feirrell. 
As reported in The Ob­server, Tuesday, McCourt was diagnosed with a broken lumbar spine and contused kidney at St. Joseph Medical Center, after initially refusing treatment. She was dis­charged following examina­tion. 
Joyce is currently in satis­factory condition at St. Joseph Medical Center after receiving a broken neck and skull fractures. 
"No one who wants to express their thoughts will be rejected," 

Sculpture 
said Hendry. 

continued from page 1 
Anyone interested in con­

Reduce

tributing to the memorial may submit his or her thoughts to Greg Hendry, Amy Borbely, Frank Zaffere, Kevin Blot; or 
Reuse stop by Saturday morning be­tween 8 a.m. and noon while the class is working on the 

Recycle-

sculpture in the library con­course. According to the class, essays, 
Thank You stories, poetry and illustrations will all be accepted. 
GATFS CHEVY WORLD Dwaine Gosher 

237-4017 
For your new and used car needs. Se habla es anol 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (2 I 9) 239-6385 
CALLIN(j ALL PANCERS! 
ND POMPON SQUAD 
TRY-OUT INFORMATION MEETING 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24 7:00PM 
In the MONTGOMERY lHEATRE in La Fortune 
Any Questions?  Call:  
NATAUE BROHL  284-5183  m:  
MARIA BRENNAN  284-5469  

~"t.r.'~ 
::---.;.~.~ ... 
........."""" 
............ ,'\I 
~:~~~-.....:-.. I .........__ 
.. .., --. ' 
~;~: :~._.' .. ·.~MIM'
.............. 
I I ... ~~: 0: 
The Observer 

Friday, February 21, 1992 page7 



Panel recommends restricting silicone breast implants 
BETHESDA, Md. (AP} -A panel of experts unanimously recommended Thursday severely restricting silicone gel implants for breast enlarge­ment but allowing easy access for women needing reconstruc­tive surgery. 
Minutes later, an officer of Dow Corning, which developed the implants, said it may stop making them. 
If the Food and Drug Admin­istration follows its panel's ad­vice, implants would be allowed only for women who have lost a breast to cancer or have a breast deformity -or for women in tightly controlled clinical trials. 
Women wanting breast en­largements represent 80 per­cent of the one million who now carry implants in their bodies. The rest have implants because their breasts had been de­formed or were removed be­cause of cancer. 
Asked if the company was 
getting ready to sell its implant business, Robert Rylee, chair­man of Dow Corning's health care businesses, said: 
"That may be an appropriate thing for us to do." The decision, he said, will be made "fairly soon." 
Nancy Dubler, a lawyer and one of nine voting members of the 24-person panel, said the recommendation of restrictions "responds to science on the one hand and compassion on the other." 
Initially, five of the nine voted for the proposed restriction. The other four did not vote. But the committee then discovered that six votes were needed for passage. 
The issue was reopened and, after several minutes of discus­sion, another vote was taken. That tally: 9-0. 
An earlier vote rejecting an outright ban was also unani­mous. 
The panel recommended that more studies be done on the implants and on the possible ef­fects of the silicone gel on living tissue. 
While the recommendations are not binding on the FDA, the agency usually follows the rec­ommendations of such commit­tees. The FDA plans to issue its fmal decision within 60 days. 
Dr. Jules Harris, a voting member, said the evidence he has seen this week did not "provide the basis to conclude that silicone gel breast implants are safe and effective." 
"I do not find this evidence convincing but it is disturbing," Harris said. 
Through their questions and statements over the course of the hearings, the members indi­cated more sympathy for women needing breast recon­struction than for those who just wanted bigger breasts. 
But Dr. Mary McGrath, a non­voting member and a professor of plastic surgery at George Washington University, complained that drawing that kind of distinction was "judgmental and paternalistic." 
However, Rita Freedman, a voting member, said women should not jeopardize their health for vanity. 
"A woman without breasts is a total woman just as a man who has gone bald and is with­out hair is a total man," Freedman said. 
Earlier, the group's chairman said members did not have the evidence to conclude that leaks from the implants are linked to health problems such as cancer and autoimmune disease. 
"We have a possible associa­tion, and we need more re­search," said Dr. Elizabeth Connell, the chairman and a medical school professor. 
The panel also: 

-Decided the implants should not be relied upon for a lifetime and said women who have 
p•••----••••••••••••••••••••••••••••illthem, especially young women, 
around the age of 35. The committee said the dangers from repeated radiation outweighed the known risks of the implants. 
-Urged that women having mammograms seek out centers where radiologists are trained to do the procedure on patients with implants. 
Most of the committee mem­bers are doctors, who have complained through the three days of meetings that most of the material presented to them has been anecdotal rather than scientific. 
When they weren't blinking into the bright lights of televi­sion cameras, the experts were sitting in the dark, looking at slides. Some were gruesome, showing misshapen breasts, hands and feet mangled by arthritis-like symptoms, and silicone oozing from surgical incisions or open sores. 
Doctors treating patients shown on the slides told the panel that they suspected the implants as the cause of the trouble and that, in some cases, when the devices were removed the problems either went away or stabilized. 
But the committee also heard the four makers of the devices say their studies did not defmi­tively deal with such questions. 
The debate has been a public relations nightmare for the four 
U.S. manufacturers, especially Dow Corning. 
THE BLACK CULTURAL ARTS COUNCIL 
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
AN EVENING OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN SPIRITUALITY 
ARCHBISHOP GEORGE STALLINGS 
EXCOMMUNICATED BY THE ROMAN CATHOUC CHURCH 
FOUNDER AND LEADER OF THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN CATHOUC CONGREGATION 
ALSO FEATURING 
A PERFORMANCE BY THE NOTRE DAME VOICES OF FAITH GOSPEL 
ENSEMBLE 
MONDAY FEBRUARY 24, 1992, 7P.M. 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK: $3 GENERAL PUBLIC $2 STUDENTS 
should be prepared for the possibility that the devices may have to be replaced. 
The committee did not come up with an expectable lifetime for the implants but urged women to consult their physi­cians. 
-Recommended that implant patients with no symptoms of problems not begin having routine mammograms before they normally would, often 

The Student Activities Office is hiring students to work in the following areas: 
LaForlune Building Managers 8>tepan Center Building Manager Theodore s Room Monilors Games Room Attendants Information Desk Attendants Disc Jockeys oound/Lighl Technicians Office Assistants 24-hr Lounge Monilor Programming Assistants 
Stop by the O'HARA WUNGE. lit Floor l.aFortune IU~DAY. fEBRUARY 25 between 4:3Qmp-5:30pm for more Information and appUcatlons. AppUcatlons abo available In Student Activities, 315l.aFortune. 
ATIENTION INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
ISO ELECTIONS; Tomorrow, 2-6P.M., ISO Lounge, LaFortune 
We have the Time, 
-Increase member participation 
the Experience, the -Promote cultural diversity Innovative Ideas, -New activities and events and the Desire the -ISO Olympics 
ISO needs. -River Cruises -Scavenger Hunts 
VOTE Darko Zuazo, Eduardo Bocock, Jose-Maria Castro 
....... ..;.~£ ............ ..,:.__ ----~---::::._ .........-..... ~. 
~----------------------~-----------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer Friday, February 21 , 1992 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, FEB.17 
&:17 a.m. A South Bend resident was cited by a Notre Dame Secu· rlty/Police Officer lor driving 53 MPH in a 30 MPH zone. 
6:37 a.m. A Mishawaka resident was cited by a Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police Officer for driving 6 t MPH In a 30 MPH zone. 
7:37 a.m. A University employee raported the theft of two poor-boxes from the Crypt. 
10:50 a.m. Notre Dame Secu· rlty/Police and Fire Department treated an injured Grace Hall resident and transported him from the JACC to St. Joseph's Medical Csnter. 
12 p.m. A Mishawaka residen1 was cited by a Notre Oame Security/Police Officer for driving 53 MPH In a 30 MPH zone. 
2:45 p.m. A graduate student re­ported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the Hesburgh Ubrary. 
TUESDAY, FEB.18 
8:50 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of her parking hang tag from her unlocked vehicle that W8$ parked In the 802 parking lot. 
8:57 a.m. A University employee raported a suspicious person at the Holy Cross House. 
2:45 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his parking hang tag from his vehicle. 
3:54 p.m. A graduate student re­ported the theft of two text books !rom his unlocked office. 
8 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police escorted several Marquette University students out of the JACC arena lor disorderly conduct and po&ll8sslon of alcoholic beverages. 
WEJH:SDAY,Fm.19 
6:35 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident reported receiving an obscene phone call. 
9:17 a.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of several text books from his unlocked office. 
1 p.m. A P.E. residen1 reported re· oeiving a harassing phone call. 
4:05 p.m. A B.P. resident reported the theft of her locked bike from the bike rack outside her dormitory. 
5 p.m. A minor two car accident occurred on Juniper Road 111 the Red Field parking lot entrance. No injuries were reported. 
8 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident re· ported the theft of his unattended jackllt from the Rockne Memorial. 
7:11p.m. A minor two oar ~nt occurred on Notre Dame Ave. in 1r0n1 of the Moms Inn. No Injuries were raported. 
11;2t p.m. A Notre Dame Secu­rity/Police Officer transported an in­jured Stanford Hall resident from the JACC to the St. Joeeph's Emergency Room. 
11 :SO p.m. A Notre Oar\1$ Secu· rtty!Poiiee Offic:er transportUd an in­jured P.E. resident from her dormllory to the Sr. Joseph's 
Emergency Room. 
·oon't Drive Drunk­Dying isn't the only thing that could happen to you. 

Pentagon defends budget planning studies 
Jeremiah was asked specifi­ coup attempt in the Philippines;  Committee debate the defense  
WASHINGTON (AP) - The  cally about a scenario in which  a  hostile  superpower  re­ budget and not have access to  
vice  chairman of the Joint  the United States spearheads a  emerges, such as Russia with or  the study.  
Chiefs of Staff acknowledged  NATO counterattack of 24 clivi·  without other former Soviet  "It's not a matter of us re·  
Thursday that the Pentagon has  sions, 70 fighter squadrons and  republics.  questing it. We're really in a  
used hypothetical studies about  six  aircraft  carrier  battle  Members of the Senate Armed  position of demanding it. We've  
an East-West war in Europe  groups should Russia launch an  Services Committee questioned  got to have that," the chairman  
and other potential conflicts for  invasion  of  Lithuania  and  the scenarios.  said, telling Jeremiah to pass  
budget-planning.  Poland.  "I think they're incredibly un­ his message along to Defense  
Adm. David Jeremiah told the  The classified scenarios were  likely scenarios," said Sen. Carl  Secretary Dick Cheney and  
Senate Armed Services Commit­ reported  in The  New  York  Levin, D-Mich.  Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman  
tee that the illustrative scenar­ Times and The Washington  Sen. John Warner of Virginia,  Colin Powell.  
ios were not factored into the  Post.  ranking Republican  on  the  "This committee is simply not  
fiscal 1993 budget now before  "This is not the policy of the  panel, said that "Some of those  going to operate on the basis  
Congress, but are intended for  U.S. government necessarily in  scenarios would provoke debate  that we're not entitled to that  
budgets from 1994 to 1999.  any of this," Jeremiah said.  of intense magnitude," if the  information -period," Nunn  
Jeremiah said the classified  "We're trying to understand  administration ever submitted  added.  
study, involving seven crisis  what our capability would be in  them to Congress.  At the Pentagon, spokesman  
"scenarios," including a mas­ the  event  that  a  different  Sen.  Sam  Nunn,  D-Ga.,  Bob Hall said the scenarios "do  
sive NATO vs.  Russia conflict,  regime came in behind the cur·  chairman of the panel, bristled  not represent war plans. They  
did not represent actual battle  rent Democratic regime and  when Jeremiah told the com­ do not represent predictions....  
preparedness schemes. But he  chose to take certain actions."  mittee that although the classi­ They're just basically analytical  
said they were drawn up to en­ The newspapers described  fied study had been leaked to  tools" to help budget planners  
able the military services to an·  the six other potential crisis and  two news organizations, the  determine manpower and sup­ 
swer the question, "Are you  how the United States would  report could not be given to the  ply needs.  
prepared to deal with a contin­ respond if: Iraq invades Kuwait  committee.  "You use the scenarios as  
gency like this and what are the  and Saudi Arabia; North Korea  "This is a planning document  something to bounce numbers  
shortfalls?"  attacks the South; Iraq and  internal to the department of  off of. You can't develop these  
The vice chairman, testifying  North  Korea  invade  their  Defense and it is not intended to  numbers or these decisions in  
at his renomination hearing,  southern neighbors at the same  be a public document or one we  the abstract. Somebody's got to  
said the Pentagon draws up  time; a coup by right-wing po­ would distribute," Jeremiah  sort of say, 'what if,~ he said.  
some  70 contingencies and  lice and "narco-terrorists" oc­ said.  At the same time, Hall ac­ 
"boiled them down to a few that  curs in Panama; U.S. citizens  Nunn said it was absurd to  knowledged that the possibility  
we thought were most typical."  are taken hostage following a  have  the  Armed  Services  of a massive land war in Europe  
De Klerk takes gamble on South African referendum  Report: U.S. pilot killed by Soviets in Vietnam  
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Through two years of lightning reform, President F.W. de Klerk has been far ahead of most white South Africans -perhaps too far ahead. Now he is taking another huge gamble by holding a refer­endum to let whites decide whether to accept reforms abolishing apartheid or opt for the right-wing Conservative Party. The government faces a rna· jor battle if it is to win. De Klerk is taking an enor­mous political risk that could spell the death of his govern­ment, plunge the country into chaos and end the drive to build a multi-racial democracy. Much will depend on how cor­rectly de Klerk has gauged the white electorate's mood. He announced the vote Thursday after his ruling National Party was trounced by the Conserva­tives in a by-election. The by-election result under· lines how de Klerk has moved  far too quickly for many whites, who had no idea what was coming when he took power in 1989. Whites frightened by de Klerk's reforms have been de­serting to the Conservatives in droves and the referendum re· sult is likely to be close. "The white electorate now knows which party speaks for the majority," said Prof. Willem Kleynhans, a retired analyst from the University of South Africa, who predicted a Conser­vative win in the referendum. If defeated, de Klerk said he would resign, clearing the way for a whites-only election. A victorious Conservative Party would try to turn back the clock and reimpose some form of apartheid. Many black groups would fight to stop such a move. De Klerk is gambling he can defeat the right-wing in one move and remove them from the mainstream by exploding their claim they have the sup­port of most whites.  WASHINGTON (AP) -The U.S. State Department is looking into a report that a U.S. prisoner of war shot down over Vietnam was killed by Soviet troops wor· ried about being discovered in the country. Spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said U.S. officials had no independent confir­mation of the report by two U.S. senators who returned this week from meetings with Russian military and KGB officials in Moscow. Ms. Tutwiler said the Rus­sian government has been "very cooperative with the American government on tracking down these allega· tions and making their files and information available to us." She noted that Secretary of State James Baker III had taken up the issue of Vietnam War prisoners with Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev.  Sens. John Kerry, D-Mass., and Bob Smith, R-N.H., said at a news conference Wednesday that Russian of­ficials had agreed to hold a joint hearing by Russian and U.S. lawmakers on the issue later this year. Kerry said the Russians were very cooperative in bringing forward Soviet mili­tary officials and soldiers who had served in Vietnam. Kerry told of the son of a Soviet veteran who said his late father was in a Soviet camp in Vietnam when an American pilot crashed into the camp and was killed be· cause the Soviets didn't want it known that they were there. The pilot was not identified. An unknown number of Soviet advisers were in Viet· nam during the war, and the Vietnamese have acknowl­edged that Soviet authorities questioned a handful of cap­tured U.S. servicemen.  





27J.•J.J.77 
Hours: Mon. thru Thurs. 11:00 am -1:00 am Fri. & Sat. 11:00 am -3:00 am Sunday noon -midnight 
·------------·---------------~------------------· 
: Large I : LATE NIGHT SPECIAL1 : : 2 Large : 1 Large I!1 topping i 1 topping I 1 topping I 
I I I I 
1$6.95 +tax I $10.95 +tax i $5.95 +tax ! 
1 1 
1

I 9:00 nm -close 


Viewpoint 
Friday, February 21, 1992 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .•............. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..........••••... -....Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .•••..•...•.Emily Willett Controller ..•.•••........•.•... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor:, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

l 

Iceberg Debates committee has overcome big obstacles 
ND Architecture not broad enough 
Architecture. Students are taught the Classical language of building exclusively for the first three years of their education. Almost the entire freshman year has been dedicated to the doric order alone. 
This idea is radical and is making a reputation for the School of Architecture at Notre Dame, but what about the University's responsibility to the students? What about the exploration of all traditions of architectural expressions? What about that broad base of knowledge we hope to take with us to the work force or 
graduate school? 
The broad based undergrad­uate education we came here for has been denied. Does the University want to have the reputation of having only Classical architects (or exis­tentialist philosophers or Marxist economists) or the reputation of creating open minds that can rationally dis­cuss and interpret,architecture as a whole? 
We would like to think the latter but somehow this basic educational ideal was lost .for the School of Architecture. 
We understand that Classicism is a base from which other traditions evolved. We realize that Classicism has a syst~pl of .proportion, planning, and grace that could be applied to other styles._ · · ~ __ . 
K, 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the article on the Iceberg Debates (The Observer, Feb. 18). The article mentioned the confusion which seems to have plagued this year's tournament and then quoted certain competitors' opinions on this topic. I think it only fair to say that in my opinion Ana Garcia and her committee have done an excellent job running the tournament this year. 
Rich Delevan argued that the Iceberg's were tainted as a tradition because of what has happened. One must under­stand that it is not this year's committee who has tainted the tournament's reputation, rather for the past three years the previous committees have 
DOONESBURY 
not thanked nor properly informed faculty members of their assignments. 
As a result, the faculty have become tired of helping and receiving no thanks in return. This is a situation Ana inher­ited and has done a tremendous job overcoming. Granted, every round has not been perfect but most have and this year's committee has been diligent in their attempts to make sure any complaints were handled properly and all judges were treated with respect and gratitude. 
Given the obstacles accrued over a period of three years, I think that the committee should not be criticized but praised for a job well done. 
Terry Coyne Off-Campus 
Feb.19,1992 

Dear Editor: 
Imagine this: Philosophy majors, beginning in the fall of 1992 your department will begin a radical educational experience. Students will ex­clusively study the teachings of the existentialists. 
Imagine the faculty realizes the importance of other traditions of philosophy, but the school's focus will be primarily on existentialism. 
Imagine that even if students wish to read other texts, they are encouraged to do so on their own time or transfer to another school. The Philosophy department wants to make a reputation for Notre Dame as the best school of existentialist thought in the country. 
What?! This scenario (for the philosophy department at least) is hypotheticaL Students come to this University (and pay big bucks) to receive a broad education of all traditions within our chosen major. 
Philosophy students read Aquinas, Descartes, and Plato. Economics majors study Marxism and Capitalism. Architecture students are taught Classicism and . . . well, one class is offered on Frank Lloyd Wright. 
Yet, somehow this strange sce­nario is exactly what ha~ hap~ pened in the School of 
P&OPl& U/f.RE 5AY!N6 
7HAT 7H&Y LJ/<1: MY 
"800"NUM8!3R,8VCN IF MYOPFON/3NT5 f)() NOT, ANO THAT 7HtY /..1/t&-88/NS JIBL& 7V CAIA­t-800-426-!f1Z TOMAK£A 
~P~!il 

GeNTleMEN, /A/HAT 
g)f(,JOFM1355AGE3­fXJ YOU lHINK 7H& VOT.fRS SENTAU..OF YOU IA?T 7V&5DAY? 
GOV!3RNOI<. BROIAJN-z
-, 
We know that our education does not end upon graduation and will continue for the rest of our lives. What we do not understand is the almost exclusive focus on Classicism that allows little exploration of other styles such as Modernism, International, Expressionism, Postmodernism, Gothic, Santa Fe, Deconstructivism, Regionalism, etc. 
It is the University's respon­sibility to open our minds to the expression of all of these equally important design the­ories, not to defme the one that they expect us to study and practice. 
A Bachelor of Architecture from the University of Notre Dame will soon represent the best possible education in Classical Architecture in the United States. Hopefully it will not also be a tag that says this person has developed no faculties to design or under­stand anything else. 
Featured in this month's issue of Common Sense is an investi­gation of this problem written by concerned students. Please take a moment to read the ar­ticle. Maybe someday you will be faced with the same situa­tion within your own depart­
ment.  
Katherh11! MacNeil  
".  Bradley J. Mayer  
Architecture. Students  
-~.-~  · .li:  i t  f  ....  Feb. 19, 1992  

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Believe those who are seeking the truth. Doubt those who find it.' 
Andre Gide 

Submarine. Subterranean. Submit: QUOTES, P. 0. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 





Literature c 

Agre 
By WILLIAM VENS Accent Writer 
T 
he Sophomore Literary Festival is celebrating its 25th anniversary of presenting a host of literary greats to the Notre Dame family. Beginning in 

FEBRUARY 21-23 

196 7 the festival has evolved into 
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Ugly Neighbor Kids, Sneakers, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS Our Town, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. 

saturday 
MUSIC 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Way Past Tense, Sneakers, 10 p.m. Barrelhouse Chuck, Steve Nardella, S.P. Leary, Midway Tavern Mishawaka, 9 p.m. 
Calloway's Coffeehouse, Seamaisin, 8 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Our Town, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Afternoon of Dr. Seuss, Theodore's, 1 p.m. 

sunday 
EVENTS Our Town, Washington Hall, 3:10 p.m. 
fi)DlS 

FRIDAY ''Terminator II," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Thelma and Louise," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 
9:45p.m. 
SATURDAY ''Terminator II," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. ''Thelma and Louise," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 
9:45p.m. 
'Clifton is a three-time nominee for the Pulitzer Prize in poetry. She re­ceived the Caretta Scott King Award in 1984. Clifton has written poems dealing with birth and death, sexuality and spirituality, and the non­white experience.' 

the week long festival that it is today. 
It all began when J. Richard Rosse attended the William Faulkner Symposium held by the University of Mississippi in the summer of 1965. 
That experience combined with his love of literature lead him to think Notre Dame could use a similar annual event, he said. 
Originally the Festival was to be a two week event. The first week focused on the life and works of an established deceased author. The second week was to be similar to today's SLF, with current writers giving readings and participating in workshops with students. 





Festival 
By CARRIE KINSELLA 
Accent Writer 
T 
he Sophomore Literary Festival, featuring readings by six talented writers, will kick off Sunday, Feb. 23, and will run nightly until Friday, Feb. 28. 
The sessions will be held at 8 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium, and the following day the author will host an informal session in the library lounge. 
This will provide a good op­portunity to get to know the authors and discover what his or her views are on a personal basis. Festival Chairwoman, Betsy Harkins, said, "The authors, who are also professors, are very personable and encourage interaction." 
The first presentation of this year's festival will be on Sunday by author Lucille Clifton. Clifton is a three-time nominee for the Pulitzer Prize in poetry. She re­ceived the Coretta Scott King Award in 1984. 
----~---------~-----------------~-----~----------~----------­
page 11 



nes alive at Festival 
... 

I 
I 
I 1 

~ 
I I 
(radition continues 1 
I 
tver, the second week >ossible in the first year of tcause of lack of funding. :t, funding was a problem 11ost kept the festival from 1g a reality. freshman in 1965 Rossie 
o get money· from the 
government, but was told dn 't want anything to do ~ idea. "It really made me aid Rossie. ssie turned to his friends in 1all. "My second semester 1ate was elected as the .ore class president and the tore class took on a lot of mcial responsibility for the ,"he said. n I was elected to the ; senate and pushed for a tment from the student nent," Rossie said. 'd with $3,000 from the nore class, $1,000 from tt government and the 
Department paying for the es of the speakers the 18 r committee of sophomores ~ed the first Sophomore 'Festival. 
The first Festival focused on the life and works of Faulkner, including films made from his books and screenplays written by Faulkner in the 30's and a photo exhibition of the author by Mark Dain. 
The next year, under the di­rection of sophomore John Mroz the format was changed from being focused on a central topic, to bringing in a number of authors to discuss their own work with students. 
This format has brought a number of distinguished authors to Notre Dame. In 1968 alone Norman Mailer and Kurt Vonnegut were on campus along with William F. Buckley Jr. , Grandville Hicks Bruce, Ralph Ellison, Joseph Heller, Wright Morris and Isaac Beshevis Singer. The success of the festival led Mroz to predict that the festival would become an annual event at Notre Dame. 
"It was a very glitzy, Hollywood type of event," said Rossie. The film "Beyond the Law", written by Norman Mailer, was premiered at Notre Dame in Stephan Center and many of the actors and ac­tresses in the film were on hand. 
Current committee chairman of the Festival, Betsy Harkins explains that, "in those days speaker fees were very low and authors could be talked into coming for not much more than the cost of expenses." Now she 
-
laments agents "try to get as much money as they can and the Festival is underfunded besides." 
Nevertheless the SLF has a distinguished list of speakers over the years including Allen Ginsberg, Ken Kesey, W.P. Kinsella, Joyce Carol Oates, Susan Sontag and Tennessee Williams. 
Harkins says that the best part of the SLF is the chance to meet and talk to authors. "They are celebrities, but yet their just like real people because there so approachable." This year's celebrity authors are Harold Brodkey, Lucille Clifton, Allison Lurie, Toby Olson, Linda Pastan and C.K. Williams. 
'Harkins says that the best part of the SLF is the chance to meet and talk to authors"They are celebrities, but yet their just like real people be­cause there so approachable."' 
1atures literary talent 

ton has written poems ~ with birth and death, :y and spirituality, and the lite experience. She has ·itten books for juveniles, rtg "Free to Be...You and 1974). Additional works "Next: New Poems," "Two­:l Woman," and most 
1. "Quilting: Poems 1987­
:urrent Poet Laureate of .nd, Lind& Pastan, will )n Monday. Pastan has d seven volumes of poetry, t recent being "Heroes in " (1991). Her poems have d in national magazines , Harper's, The Atlantic The New Yorker, and The 
1ublic. 
Ly's speaker is poet, C.K. 
'· He was the 1988 winner 
ational Book Critics Circle 
ror "Flesh and Blood," a 
:ollection. The American 
lly of Arts and Letters :ed him with the Morton f Zabel prize in 1989. l.ms is a diverse writer, 
translated works by 
Sophocles, Issa, and Euripides and serving as script consultant for two films by David Lynch. He resides in Paris, but teaches a part of each semester at George Mason University in Virginia. 
Harold Brodkey is Wednesday's featured author. He received the 
0. Henry short story award in 1975 and 1976. Brodkey has produced various works, including poems, short stories, novels, and essays. He has been published in The New Yorker and Esquire, and other magazines. 
Brodkey was raised in Illinois and draws on his life experiences for creations on childhood, college, marriage, and parenthood. He is known for his insights on themes such as loss of innocence and the struggle for a return to grace. His works include "First Love and Other Sorrows," "Women and Angels," and his most recent pieces, "Stories in an Almost Classical Mode" and "The Runaway Soul." 
On Thursday, Allison Lurie will speak about the eight novels she has written. She won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1984 for "Foreign Affairs." Lurie is a professor of English at Cornell University. Her works tend to satirize the wealthy and educated classes in America. 
Lurie's two latest novels are "Don't Tell the Grownups: Subversive Children's Literature" and "The Truth about Lorin James." 
To complete the festival, Toby Olson will speak on Friday. The Chicago Tribune Book World described his work as "'resembling D.H. Lawrence's fiction."' 
Olson has published sixteen books of poetry and six novels. His latest is "The Pool." Olson is a professor of English at Temple University. 
In the twenty five years since this event was established writers such as Arthur Miller, Tennessee Williams, Gwendolyn Brooks, and Ken Kesey have spoken. The outstanding tradition of excellence at the Sophomore Literary Festival continues. 


I've just finished reading the three-part profile of Jesse Jackson, which appeared dur­ing February in The New Yorker. He looks to me like a .Joshua-in-waiting, who should be asked to build us bridges 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to o Lonely God 

to realize that moral vision. 

Last September, as he was considering whether to run for the Presidency a thi'rd time, Jackson suddenly professed his misgivings about his venture to transfer the movement's moral vision into a competition for the Presidency. 
"It's been dealing with the Devil," Jackson said ... "the Way I feel now is like what Martin said the night befor~ he died--I just wanna do God's will. I don't want to live to do the will of the Democratic party. Just wanna do God's will." He never sounded more King-like than when he said: "When the curtain finally falls on me, all I want is for history to say, 'He was part of the conscience of his time.' I'll rest then." 
After a speech to the Democrats in San Francisco in 1988, a note was delivered to Jackson in his hotel room from Andrew Young, then mayor of Atlanta. "You make me feel proud and humble when I hear you speak. Martin would be proud, too. You have my full endorsement as the moral voice of our time.'' 
You may think that I'm nomi­nating Jesse Jackson as the next Black Christ, since he was an understudy to King as the original; however, I'm not so political. I'd be happy to see you try Jesse on for size as a prophet. The New Yorker pro­file reminded me of how weary all of us have become of the wimps in high places, elected as the lesser of two evils. Even as an uncrowned King, Jesse looks more promising than any of the politicos who lack a vision. 
The crowds who hear Jesse on the hustings love him be­
cause he leaves them with the truths you know he must live by. "When somebody's sick, the only moral question is not 'Where is your money?' but 'Where is your pain'?'" 
Ask to talk about his grand­mother's quilt, he says: One winter night when I was a little boy, living in this humble little house without any heat, we couldn't afford a blanket. So my grandmother had to make us a quilt, or else we'd have froze. All we had, though, was pieces of old cloth. My grandmother 
· gathered all those patches and pieces, and when she finished sewing them together, it made a big quilt that covered us and kept us warm. And that's like America. It's not a blanket made out of just one cloth. It's a great quilt made of many patches ... " "God hasn't finished with me yet," he told the Democratic convention. "The proper ques­tion is not who we are, but Whose we are." Once we know Whose we are of course, the larger the stage is on which we work." Recollecting the circum­stances of his own birth, he may suddenly remark in mock credulity: "A teenage mother? Havin' a baby? No husband? No job? And you mean you want to go ahead and have that baby? Even raise it? Why, that's just not realistic. It's naive. What kind of life can that baby ever expect to have." He will say: "The problem 
now is we got this turmoil of extremes. One group saying, 'I love children so much, if we can't provide for them or they're unwanted, don't let 'em come into the world.' The other group saying, 'I love babies so much, they must come into the world even if they they have to starve.' All of 'em using the language of love." 
To the Democratic party telling him, "You have such a great gift." Jesse said: -1 told them, Well, why don't you use that gift?" 
Don't you think that Jesse Jackson could be the greatest natural force in politics since Bobby Kennedy? Why, then, do you suppose the Democrats don't offer his candidacy for high office as a gift to the na­tion? 


Correction 
• 
A graphic appearing in the Accent section on ~ednesday, Feb. 19, mcorrectly attributed a theory on the assassination of John F. Kennedy to Professor James Ward. The theory is one of several proposed sequences of events, but is not the theory supported by Ward. 

• 
A book review of "Statecraft and Stagecraft: American Political Life in the Age of Personality" by Professor Robert Schmuhl that appeared in the Accent section on Thursday, Feb. 13, omitted the fact that Notre Dame Press published the book. 


The Observer regrets the er­rors. 

over troubled waters. 
The New Yorker pieces don't canonize Jackson; in an even­handed way. they picture him warts and all. He comes off as an all-American original, like lluck Finn and Captain Ahab. Being self-made, he's a product of the American Dream, which eventually trips him up; as a black, he's frustrated, like the "invisible man" in Ralph Elli­son's novel. 
Like Robert Penn Warren's Willy Stark. he speaks in tongues; hearing him, the
-naked and the dead remember what it means to be alive. As a hero, he's not the fisher-king out of Hemingway who survives alone on grace under pressure, or an old man of the sea, Christlike with endurance in his hour of trial. "I was born out of wedlock to a teen-age mother, who was born to a teen-age mother." When Jesse wants to get into the Copperfield kind of crap, as he often does when he's talking to high school assemblies in the inner cities, he cuts their resis­tance to him off at the knee. "Reverend Jackson, you just don't understand what it's like. "I do understand," he insists. "When I was in my mother's belly, no father to give me a last name, they called me a bastard and rejected me." The truth is that "in his per­petuation of King's vision in the national life, in his ascent to become an almost totemic folk figure for America's black 
community, Jackson has proved to be probably King's single notable legatee.'' 
From the first. King was Jackson's spiritual father. King had adopted Gandhi's concept of the "truth force" exerted by the non-violent resistance of a subjugated people. In addition to liberating blacks, King hoped that the civil rights movement could "redeem the soul of America. It may be that through the American Negro the unadulterated message of nonviolence will be delivered to the world." 
King, toward the end of his life, began perhaps to realize that his great dream was be­ginning to falter. This, he de­clared, was because America's disorder was inseparable from "an international emergency which involves the poor, the dispossessed, the exploited of the whole world." 
At a time when King was be­coming noteworthy as the American Gandhi, Jackson re­garded King with an almost desperate adoration and awe. Asked whether he considered himself in the line of succession from Gandhi and King, Jackson replied solemnly: "It's what I aspire to." He explained: "What I am doing is carrying the moral vision of the civil-rights movement into the context of conventional politics." But how Jackson differed from King was in seeking to becom!:) a part of the processes of power in order 
TURNED2  
...TO E:LE:CTROlVJ:C MAJ:L  
To obtilin ilnd iiCtivilte  Worldwide Communications  
~our new Eudoril ilccount.  
visit the Lilfortune or Dilvisson  
[248 o·s~ilg] computer clusters.  
Trilining clilsses ilre iiVilililble for  
students. filcult~. ilnd stilff.  Information Recess  
UDORA  
+I'ORTBE+  
MACINTOSH  
Campus Communical'ions  

---------~---­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
every1hing you know is wrong. WELCOME EVIL\111
NOTICES Do you live in UPSTATE NY and are WANTED-2 UCLA GA's. Please headed home for Spring Break? call Lauren x1711 ASK YOUR SISTER HOW SHE Happy 21st Birthday to Am looking for a ride -will pay gas ZZZZZZZZIPS IT!!!I!!!II OLD TIME HOCKEY. ice. steel. pain Erin Duffey, who, contrary to
USED TEXTBOOKS! 
etc. Scott 2373. and anguish. CAVANAUGH vs. popular belief, is not a woman ofBuy & Sell Books alumni.11 :45 p.m. Thursday, Joyce crisis. Have a great day.
Pandora's Books 
To Beth Duane: do you think you ACC Fieldhouse. Love, Rich 3 blks. from NO 
HELP! I Need 4 UCLA might have gotten a little bit out of 
233-234211 0-5:30 M-Sun CHICAGO FRIDAY?! need a ride to B-Ball Tixsll hand with those highlighters on O'Hare 2121-6pm fit. Help w/exp. Mimi 284-5158 Wednesday? Lou LaGrange, Joni 3793. PLEASE! To DeDe, or should I say ReDe Your voice is as soft as aTYPING AVAILABLE (nice going Brendan): hope the baby's butt. Your hair is as thick as Goliath,
287-4082. 
week was not too hard on you and butterscotch pudding. When you that you get lots of time to relax. stare into my eyes I proclaim Round trip airfare from Chicago to You earned it. "Alleluia, my savior is found". Lou, Take care of Stumpy the
L....-LO_ST_I_FO_U_N_D_JII_ FOR RENT 
Puerto Rico for Spring Break: $450. Have terrific weekends, both of you. deliver me from all evil! cocktail wiener--it's the only one Call x1803 You're awesome. S.L. you've got. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 

LOST: CAMERA IN BLACK BAG -R­WITH RED TRIM DURING JPW. David
219-291-7153.

CALL DAVID AT 283-4531 OR Together at last!!!! SANDRA AT 815-933-5257 PERSONAL hey nit UGLY NEIGHBOR KIDS P.S. COLLECT. &
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE WAY PAST TENSE Forgive me D.?.J.

OF FACILITIES, KITCHEN, STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Rock the way God intended it. 

WASHING, $225/MO. NICE INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 

FOUND: MAN'S DIGITAL WATCH Info on semester, year, graduate, Sneakers
NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
BETWEEN SIEGFRIED & PE summer and internship programs in Fri & Sat 10:00 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232-for a quote 9:30-6:00, 

DURING JPW. CALL BEN AT 283-Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and 
2794. 289-1993. Office near campus.

1766. Melbourne. Programs start at To the beastly KATILE-­Wayne Goveia­$3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. Jealousy is a terrible thing--I hope you can live with yourself. What happened to Pangborn's LOST--NJ Driver's Liscenc&'--hockey game?!!! We were looking
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time 
OK, It's been long enough! Stop SUMMER JOBS -CLASS OF 1994-forward to it!!! We'll be there
AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER mother seek newborn to join family. 
memorizing my address and SS#. ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Vote Monday, will you?!!! Let us know
SUBLET -CHEAP FOR FOUR We promise your baby love and 

Return my lOll No questions asked. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS CONNOLLY before Monday nightll! 
STUDENTS! I DO NOT PAY understanding, a good education & 
Please return to Lauren x1711. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR CAVANAGH
EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND fun. Supportive grandparents. 

LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786-JUNIUS You drinking buddies, PUT UP WITH RULES -HANG BY Legal. Call Bev & Howard 
8373 GENELTHE POOL!!!! CALL X3414-COLLECT 914-235-3917. 
Lost: I left a pair of wool mittens -Monday, Feb. 24 -H&M!!I
MESSAGE.

with brown leather palms in Am. 118 O'Shag and now they're gone !I The Lizard King lives on! Down with
It's Coming! 

I really love these mittens and need the Crustaceans! MONTAIGNE ON DEWILDE: to have them back. If you know "There is nothing 
HOUSE FOR RENT FOR SUMMER

anything about them, please call more gay, Tricia Starr-
SCHOOL. $150/MO., $170/MO., SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA 

Kristine @ X3352. HURRY! Don't Miss Out. SOUTH more lusty,
$200/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, 

PADRE and CANCUN SPRING more sprightly, So, what country are you goingCALL 287-2159 PAUL. 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, 
BREAK of "92"1 Seven night and I might almost say to this weekend? I hear Canada Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & 
LOST bright yellow Esprit pouch at packages from $199. Lowest prices more frolicsome." has awesome "prairie fires" and 
Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800­
NOH on Valentine's Day; contains guaranteed. Call Orion Tours "half a pitcher of beer in 45
423-5264. 

detex, license, and other TODAY: 1-800-800-6050. ED WALTERS: seconds"!!!
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., 

identification. If found please call Know him. 
FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED

Kiernan x2722. Fall down laughing. Your #1 fans,
HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO 000 THE COPY SHOP 0¢0SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; 9-O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. 

LaFortune Student Center Michelle and Hilary MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM 
········Losr········· We're Open Everyday!!! 
OR 255-5852. NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 
A thin gold rope chain bracelet Book in the Head:
1-800-833-5555. 

somewhere between Loftus, NOH, and Hayes-Healy. Dr. Seuss lives. Don't forget your beads-maybe Great sentimental value!! !Ill Theodore's you'll GET SOME!!!! Lunchmeat and Mayonnaise, 
6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR His eyes OPEN!!!!! 

Please help! Call SARA at x4940 if Saturday, Feb. 22, 
CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306 

you have it. 1:00pm-3:00pm Many Fights Hang in There!! Remember that I went through all of the garbage with 
"Let's go Greyhound on spring SA too--it just made me a betterbreak. 50% off anywhere we go.

Found: Calculator in Hayes· Relive your childhood, Hey MARINA, stop thinking about person! Every1hing will work out 
Rent Frat House '92-'93 Restrictions apply. Call287-6541" 
Healy/Hurley. Call1718 or 1719 to Help South Bend's finance and the business school, OK.
Pooltble, Security System, 2 

claim homeless children. and all that other practical stuff. 
kegerators (lull bar),SBedrms 

Theodore's, Start thinking about Cancun, your PAC(houses 8-9), fully furnished, We are a young, happily married, Saturday, Feb. 22, thong bikini, and the nude beaches 2bath, Cheap rent. financially secure, couple longing 
"""FOUND""" 1:00pm-3:00pm. you'll be skinny dipping at. Love
Call now!! 234-6976 for a baby to nurture and share in 
Mini 35mm camera Lauren 
our love & lives. Let's help each 

between Mod Quad and To All the 'Boys' of Flamer 6B-­
other and give your baby a bright
NOH. Was found before Ski Trip
future. Please call collect and get to 
Christmas Break. to -TANYA BULAKOWSKI-­It is never too late to get your 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO­know us 708-246-1 095. 

Caberfae Ski Resort Tonight is the night!! tickets for the SYR!!! You don'tIronwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­
Call Joe at 1208 Sat. & Sun., Feb. 22 & 23 I'm waiting for your answer, know what you'll be missing, but I'll 
l available immediately-call287-0534 or 271-9268. 
give me a call, you know the keep you all in my heart as we'reLeeks in the Night & Book in the 
Package includes: number. partying like madmen without you-­
I 
Head-­

WANTED •Accommodations at Days Inn Hugs and wet kisses, 
•Free Continental Breakfast ROY The Pegmeister 
L,._________j The Mardi Gras Mambos are •Discount on Ski Rentals 
A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I FOR SALE coming to town!!! First one there 
•Two-day lift ticket 

Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. L-----------..J can have my teepee, and, no, not Needed: Ride to North. New Maria Munoz, Boston/NY City. Super kids, great with me in ill
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED ONLY $65!1 Jersey for Break x3384 Just wanted to send you this short food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ note to wish you a happy day.
staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, Thunder Lungs 
89 Mercedes ...................... $200 Sign up at the Student Have a good weekend. 
arts/crafts, all land/water sports, 
86 vw....................................$50 Governmnent Office (BARB) Michael, it's you and me and a -C
fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for 
87 Mercedes ...................... $100 bottle of wine-haha!!!, can't wait to
shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, Shaka: When the walls fell 
65 Mustang .......................... $50 Questions??? Call239-7668. be with you tonight honey. Hey Alice F.
photography, computers, rocketry, 
Choose from thousands starting Love you, What time did you get up thisguitar, radio, video, yearbook, 
$25. Renee morning?
newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, FOR BRUCE: UNDERGRADUATES Remember, don't abuse your AN, morel 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Don't despair, even through alann clock, he's only doing 
6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP TO A STRAPPING YOUNG 
Details 801-379-2929 Copyright NO is moving more and more his job ..... .
EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., MONSTER FROM NYC. HAPPY
IIN11KJC toward a research institution Hey Unguini Head!! -C.
Eastchester, NY 10707. V-DAY TO YOU FROM ME. 
the undergrads are not grow­P.S. I guess we should look into8001955-CAMP. YOU'VE BEEN PLAYING DOCTOR ing less important. Heck no, (Yes that's you, you know who you turning over •another" new leaf. ??
MUCH TOO LONG, BUT SINCE we graduate students would love to are.)
YOUR PATIENT IS WILLING, 

use you people as test -------------­
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING YOU'RE NOT IN THE WRONG. 
FOR SALE: SMC approved loft. subjects in our experiments. I like plain donuts. 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL LOVE,
$80 call284-5174. 

YOU. NO EXPERIENCE A SAUCY HEART Two ex1ra tickets to see Shear Hey Andy NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
Madness in beautiful balmy Chicago this seems like the only way to get SOUTH PADRE ISLAND tonight. Call me. Please. x29n in touch with you. Pathetic, huh. 
HELP! Need a ride back to 

Call meNew Jersey for spring break. 
AT Ticket SB--Tampa. Lv. 3/6; Condominiums for Spring Break. JS
FULL TIME BABY-SliTER Call Michele X1294 
Ret.3/13. Good price. $20 per person per night/ off beach NEEDED IN OUR MISHAWAKA Mike X3076 $25 per person per night! beach ""Okay Rich"",HOME TO TAKE CARE OF front ATIENTION MEN OF OHIO Have a good weekend. I ! ! I -? 
NEWBORN. IRELAND PROGRAM '90-'91 1-800-422-8212. STATE!!II! What up, quint? 
OWN TRANSPORTATION IF ONLY WE COULD GO BACKII 
EVIL IS BACKII REQUIRED. 

1-way ticket, South Bend to SF. Congrats lzzy. Good Luck 
TEL:255-7961 (HOME) LOVE,
3/5192 3pm. United: SB-Chi-SF EBD,YATE,ILYB,HBD,YSF,EMB START YOUR ENGINES!! nex1 year with H.A.O. 
239-5608 (OFFICE) 
coach. $150. Cathy 283-4409. Cristina
MOL&MO 

I like your smile Tom Tom. WHERE CAN YOU FIND "THE CAT ATIENTIONI --Guess who? 
Need ride to Purdue 
IN THE HAT," "SAM I AM," AND

Will pay gas SMOKIN' JOE IS A SMOKIN' HO 
MAC CLASSIC 2140 with tons of NOTRE DAME'S OWN CIRCUSCall Brian X4245 

Software!!! Asking $850! Mark LUNCH CLOWN? THE "PAPER" CHAMPIONS 
teERVE v~ Z.4 OR
Luttio 288-Q097 AT THEODORE'S OF COURSE! OF THE SENIOR CLASS DART SATURDAY, FEB. 22, 1-3PM. TOURNAMENT 
5BEDROOt.t HOUSE 
Drummer/Bassist to jam w/ SESAME STREET girl in 236L­WE WANT OUR SHOT AT YOU 
FOR 9Z-U NOWI SAFE
mediocre guitarist. you are unique! 
IF YOUR UP TO THE CHALLENGE 



NEA.PIWA'TE
Matt-2155 


TICKETS 
CALL TOM X1762 
P~LOT,
OR DIEGO 2n-MS9 

va..1.EWAU. &
Needed: ride to Atlanta for TO SET UP A MEETING Avon $$$ Sales. New Commission 
IWI(E1'8AL1. ca.RT,
break...please call x3806 PS. IF YOU WIN WE WILL PAYI need 2 UCLA tix 
2 NO women need ride to AI or wlin earnings selling at work/home. 232­FOR THE DARTS AND 
SEMI-FURNISHED.
Christina X2615 

2 hrs for SB will pay gas call KATE 0014. 
BEVERAGES!!! 

CAll. ZM-1111 TOOAV.
3534 

page 14 The Observer Friday, February 21,1992 
leers play two with UIC Purdue steams Wildcats Detroit 
By ANTHONY KING Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame hockey team 
will meet the Flames of Illinois­
Chicago this weekend for a 
home-and-home series. 
The Friday night match-up in 
Chicago will mark the first time 
this season this season that the 
Irish will appear on television. 
The game will be covered on 
SportsChannel Chicago on a 
taped-delay telecast at 11:00 
p.m. 
"It's been a long time since 
we've been on television," 
commented Irish coach Ric 
Schafer. "I hope we're up to it, 
but either way it will be good 
for us." 
CCHA member Illinois­
Chicago enters the contest with 
an 8-14-6 record, with only one 
win in their last nine games. 
These stats are quite deceiving, 
however, when examining the 
opponents the Flames have 
encountered. 
UIC has met up with powers 
such as third-ranked Michigan 
State, fourth-ranked Michigan, 
sixth-ranked Lake Superior 
State, and twelfth-ranked 
Western Michigan. The Flames 
have beaten all of these teams 
at least once this season, and 
are coming off two come from 
behind overtime ties at Western 
Michigan. 
"They (UIC) are a very good 
hockey team," complimented 
Schafer. "They have had some 
big upsets over Michigan and 
Michigan State." 
Leading UIC is a group of 
talented freshman that already 
have made quite an impact 
against Flame opponents. 
NO Track teams head to Purdue 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track teams 
will travel to Purdue University 
this weekend for the Indiana 
Intercollegiate meet. The meet 
will be a stepping stone for the 
Alex Wilson Invitational next 
weekend. 
"For some it will be an 
opportunity to get an IC4A 
qualifying time or to run in 
different events. It is 
preparation for the Alex Wilson 
meet," said Notre Dame track 
coach Joe Piane. "You have to 
be looking down the road to 
where you are going to be in 
two weeks." 
The Irish will face teams from all over the state including Indiana University, Purdue, Indiana State, Ball State, Butler, and other Division II and Division III teams. There could be as many as 25 teams participating in the meet. 
Several men's runners will remain behind to rest and to continue preparation for the IC4A meet. 
Only 15 women's runners will travel to the Invitational. The women's team will be more in the middle of the pack in terms of the competition. 
"They (the women's team) are making unbelievable improvements, but it will take time," said Piane of the team's ability to compete with the big guns at the meet. 
The last time the Irish competed in the event was in 1990 when Notre Dame's men's team finished fifth behind Purdue, Indiana, Indiana State, and Ball State. 
Freshman center Chris 

EVANSTON, Ill. -Gene fourth straight defeat. continued from page 20 MacDonald has racked up 27 Keady pretty well stuck with his Riley started the scoring in points, while freshman right seven-man rotation and his each half as the Boilermakers in, not having a lot of 
experience and just having
wing Mark Zdan has notched 14 Purdue Boilermakers on coasted most of the way. 
missed a front end before, I'm
goals and 26 points. Senior left Thursday night responded with "We wanted to establish the wing Rick Judson completes the an 84-68 Big Ten victory over inside game and we wanted to just very happy with her." line with a team leading 3 3 the Northwestern Wildcats. shoot more free throws," said After Patrice Martin threw up Craig Riley, the 6-9, 255-Austin, who did his part by a wild three-pointer at the
points. 

pound hulk at center, scored a hitting 12-of-14 from the free other end, Notre Dame was
Between the pipes for the 

season-high 21 points, Woody throw lane as Purdue hit on 29 able to run 16 seconds off
Flames is freshman Jon 

Austin came through with his of 41 free throws. 
before Kristin Knapp buriedHillebrandt, who maintains an 
usual 21 points and freshman Kevin Rankin led
.883 save percentage and a two foul shots with eight
Cuonzo Martin, getting a rare Northwestern with 19 points. 
seconds left to seal the victory. 
3.97 goals against average. 

start, had a career-high 14 Charles Howell finished with 15 
The Irish are still looking to points. and Cedric Neloms had 13. "Near the end, we needed to 
take care of the ball better thanbreak the current 18 game slide "His only other two starts The Boilermakers opened a 5­we did," said Orlosky. "But our
against CCHA opponents. Notre were at North Carolina and at 0 lead and never led by less. It 
big people did a good job of
Dame is 0-6 for the year against Indiana," said Keady of Martin. was 12-4 when Howell 
the CCHA, and has been "Those are not easy places to converted a 3-point play but rebounding (Notre Dame out­
outscored 38-20. start." Purdue soon upped it to 18-9. rebounded Detroit 48-34) and Keady said "We tried to keep Howell hit successive baskets getting the ball when we
Last weekend the Irish did 

the tempo up, we wanted to fast but a 7-2 run upped the lead to needed it at critical times." 
manage to beat future CCHA 

break every chance we had. 25-15. "We just didn't do the job
member Kent State. Friday's We've been struggling with our A 13-7 run led by Riley made inside," said Titans' coach Fred
game saw Notre Dame improve 

confidence and this was a great it 38-22 before Kip Kirkpatrick 
Procter. "Defensively, I thought
to 2-0 in overtime, as 

win for us." hit a 3-pointer to cut it to 38-25 
we did a decent job, but our
defenseman Matt Osiecki lit the It was also easy for the at the half. 

interior defense broke down. 
lamp with 55 seconds left in 

Boilermakers (13-11, 5-7) as Riley opened the second half 
overtime to gain the victory, 6-"Offensively, we didn't have
they snapped a three-game with a 3-point play and with 
enough ball movement, and The second contest Northwestern (8-14, 1-11) its Boilermakers opened 51-32 that just shut down our offense. 
5. losing streak in handing balanced scoring the 
highlighted Golden Flash goalie You can't beat anybody scoring 
consists of only four boxers, so
Paul Dixon, who stopped all but just 58 points." 
action will not begin until

Bouts
one of the Irish's 41 shots. The Now, the Irish must ready
WIM,lnesday. There is no clear­themselves for Saturday's 7:30lone score came in the second cutfavorite with Mike O'Neil,
period off the stick of Mike continued from page 20 p.m. contest against Butler in
John Donahue, Matt Carr, and 
Curry. Kent State put in three the final home appearance for
experience will play in deter­Mike O'Rourke battling in the 
goals and held on for a 3-1 win. minig the fights, "None of the heaviest weight class. seniors Margaret Nowlin and The Notre Dame power play boxers have a lot of experience. The semifinals for all divi­Comalita Haysbert. again floundered last weekend. We are amauters and even less sions except the heavyweight The Bulldogs, who crushed The power play had been up to than amauters, the experience class will be held Wednesday. Notre Dame 77-63 one month 
a .283 conversion percentage, really doesn't matter." The finals will take place ago down in Indianapolis, are Sunday, February 23 in the led by junior Julie Von
ranking the Irish fourth in the Mike Trainor joins his twin nation. Last weekend's 0 for 11 brother Tim as a divisional fa­JACC Arena. Dielingen (14.8 ppg, 6. 9 rpg), 
vorite. The well-balanced field 
droughtagainst the Golden 

will test the 180-lb Trainor.
Flash, however, dropped Notre Eric Poley, along with GregDame down to .261. 




The Observer 
Keary and Rick Ebert, will pro­The Irish will return to the vide a strong challenge for theJoyce Fieldhouse for Saturday title.
night's game, with face off The heavyweight division 

Saint Mary's Editor 
slated for 7:30. 

is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
-'Ihe Obse-~~­
--. --A:=Y.:.~.I..~­
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor
The Observer is seeking 
Saint Mary's News Editor
Saint Mary's Sports Writers. 
Saint Mary's Photo Editor Those interested should 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Viewpoint Editor
contact Christine Penote at 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal 
284-5331 or Dave Dieteman 
statement to Anna Marie Tabor at 405 McCandess or leave at the front desk by Wed., February 26.
at 283-1545 
Your Latest Bonus: Clinique /JSmall Indulgences" 
.• 

Yours at no extra charge whatever with any
...-. 

Clinique purchase of 12.00 or more. 



·.. '/ 

Honey Gloss Re-Moisturizing Lipstick. Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion. Clarifying Lotion 2. Serious-Hold Hairs pray. Crystal Quince Semi Lipstick. Hair Brush. 
One bonus to a customer. 
CLINIQUE 
Allergy Tested. 100% Fragrance Free. 
Hudson's at University Park MaU 
Feb-mary20 tbrougb March 7 
•• r ·.1111
! '>I
.. _..,," 
! .... 

·-------~--~----~-~~-­
.----------------------------------~~-------­
ll~f"'(i 

SCOREBOARD
Friday, February 21, 1992 page 15 TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
NBA STANDINGS 
BASEBALL HOCKEY WALES CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCE American l ..gue National Hockey league Patrick Dlviaion l"lantlc Dlvlalon DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms with Mi<e NHL-F\ned Brian Bellows, Minnesota wing, W l TPtsGFGA w l Pet. GB Henneman, pitcher, on a one-year contract. $500 for complaining to the media about the NY Rangers 37 19 4 78 236 193 NewYolit 33 19 .635 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms with officiating aher a game on Feb. 5. Washington 34 20 5 73 250 199 Boston 29 23 .558 4 David Howard, shortstop, and Mike Magnante, MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Recalled New Jersey 32 18 7 71 220 174 Miami 25 28 .472 8112 pitcher, on one-year contracts. Richard Matvichuk, defenseman, from Saskatoon Pittsburgh 27 24 7 61 250 223 Through Thurs., Feb. 20 Philadelphia 25 28 .472 8112 
MILWAUKKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms of the Western Hockey League. NY Islanders 24 26 7 55 215 229 New Jersey 22 30 .423 11 with Darren Holmes and Kevin Brown, pitchers, on SAN JOSE SHARKS-Signed Tom Pederson Philadelphia 21 26 tt 53 tn 194 G S B T Washington 18 34 .346 15 one-year contrads. defenseman, and assigned him to Kansas City of Dlvlolon Orlando 40 .245 2fJ 112
Adame Germany 10 9 6 25 13 
the International Hockey League. Recalled Dale Montreal 35 21 6 76 2fJ7 151 Central Dlvlalon Lee Guetterman, pitcher, on a one-year contract. Craigwell, center, and Jean-Francois Quintin, leh Boston 27 24 8 62 202 206 Unified Team 8 5 7 20 Chicago 43 tO .811 National Laague wing, from Kansas Chy. Buffalo 23 27 10 56 218 226 Cleveland 34 17 .667 8 CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms with Chuck ST. LOUIS BLUES-Recalled Pat Jablonski, Hartford 16 29 11 43 173 199 Austria 5 7 7 19 Detroit 30 23 .566 13 McElroy, p~cher, and George Pedre, catcher, on goattender, from Peoria of the International Hockey Quebec 13 38 7 33 172 233 Atlanta 26 26 .500 16 112 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms with 
Norway 7 6 5 18 
one-year contracts. league. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Milwaukee 25 27 .481 17112 
CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with Chris Eaat Coaat Hockey League Norrie Dlvlalon Italy 3 4 3 10 Indiana 24 30 .444 19 112 Hammond, Gino Mlnutelll and Ross Powell, TOLEDO STORM-Acquired Mark Romaine, W l T Pta GF GA Charlotte 17 35 .327 25 112 pitchers, and Freddie Benavides. Infielder, on one­goaltender, from the Raleigh IceCaps for cash. Detroit 32 18 9 73 254 196 France 3 5 9 WESTERN CONFERENCE year contracts. 
Traded Greg Bignell, defenseman, to the St. Louis 27 24 9 63 208 200 Midweat Dlvlalon COLORADO ROCKIES-Signed Mauricio Richmond Renegades for cash. Chicago 25 21 12 62 187 174 United States 3 4 8 w l Pet. GB Gonzalez, shortstop, and assigned him to Mesa of SOCCER Minnesota 25 28 5 55 187 2fJ3 Utah 36 18 .667
Finland 3 3 7
the Arizona Leegue. American Profeulonal Soccer League Toronto 21 33 5 47 167 219 San Antonio 30 22 .577 5 BASKETBALL COLORADO FOXES-Re-signed Steve Else, Smythe Divlolon Canada 2 2 5 Houston 27 26 .509 8 112 National Baaketball Aaaoc\atlon defender. Vancouver 31 19 9 71 208 183 Denver 19 32 .373 15 112 
CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Waived Cedric FT. LAUDERDALE STRIKERS-Signed Omid Los Angeles 24 23 13 61 215 222 Japan 3 5 DaHas 15 37 .288 20 Hunter, guard. Namazi, midfielder. Edmonton 26 28 7 59 223 232 Minnesota tO 41 .196 24 112 GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Signed Kenny COLLEGE Winnipeg 24 25 11 59 184 182 The Netherlands 1 2 4 Pacific Dlvlalon Battle to a second Hklay contract. DREXEL-Named Randy Voigt and Lowry Wear Calgary 23 27 9 55 218 217 Portland 36 15 .706
Sweden 1 0 3 4
Continental Basketball Aaaoclatlon assistant directors a men's athletics. San Jose 13 42 4 30 152 269 Golden State 34 15 .694 1 
FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Torgeir Bryn, JACKSON STATE-Announced the resignation Wednesday's Gamea South Korea 1 1 3 Phoenix 33 20 .623 4 center. of W.C. Gorden, head football coach, to become Montreal 2, Hartford 2, tie LA lakers 29 24 .547 8 FOOTBALL athletic director. St. Louis 4, Winnipeg 3 Switzerland 1 0 1 2 Seattle 28 25 .528 9 National Football league POINT PARK-Named John Fossum men's Calgary 6, Boston 4 LA Clippers 27 25 .519 9 112 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Agreed to terms assistant soccer ooach. Edmonton 4, los Angeles 3 China 0 2 0 2 Sacramento 17 35 .327 19 112 with Dan Stryzinskl, punter. QUINCY-Announced the resignation of Sherrill Vancouver 6, Buffalo 5 Wedneaday'a Gamea 
1 

Luxembourg 0 2 0 2 
Arena Football league Hanks, athletic director, effective May 31. Thuraday'a Gamea New Jersey 106, Detron 102 AFL-Announced that the Dallas Texans have SAN DIEGO STATE-Promoted Brat Ingalls, Toronto at Detroit, 7:35p.m. Czechoslovakia 0 0 2 2 Chicago 112, Orlando 99 been purchased by Kent Kramer and Greg Gibson. offensive line coach, to offensive coordinator. N.Y. Rangers at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Washington 103, Atlanta 102, OT WIDENER-Named Bruce D. Bryde athletic Quebec at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. New Zealand 0 0 1 Indiana 129, Sacramento 115 director, effective March 6. New Jersey at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. Charlotte 106, Denver 104 Friday'a Gamea Spain 0 0 1 Golden State 117, Boston 112 Minnesota at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. San Antonio 113, Minnesota 103 New Jersey at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. Utah 118, Dalias 96
G-Gold, 8-Silver, B-Bronze, T-Total los Angeles at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. LA Clippers 125, LA Lakers 94
Does not include demonstration sports AP
Boston at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Thuraday'a Gamea
The Observer 
Vancouver at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. Cleveland 92, New Yolit 89 Miami 111, Milwaukee 109 Houston 110, Philadelphia 101 Seattle 105, LA Lakers 103 
Friday'• Games 

Charlotte vs. Boston at Hartford, 7:30p.m. 
Indiana at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m.
Photography Department 



WITH 
Denver at Washington, 7:30p.m. 
Detron at Orlando, 7:30p.m. Chicago at Atlanta. 7:30p.m. Sacramento at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. 
is now accepting applications for the 
following paid staff positions: 
Philadelphia at San Antonio, 8 p.m. Minnesota at Dalias, 8:30p.m. Houston at Utah, 9:30 p.m. Portland at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Phoenix at Golden State, 10:30 p.m.
Assistant Photography Editor 
BOX SCORE: NO-DETROIT 
DETROIT 58

Accent Photography Editor 
Kraiza 4-11 3-5 11, Longar 5-12 44 14, Danforth 04 2-3 2, Cook 5-8 0-2 10, Martin 6-18 0-0 12, Jones t-5 3-4 5, Flyghed 0-2 0-0 0, Willey 2-4 0-2
Sports Photography Editor 
4, Bolit 0-0 0-<l 0. Totals-23-64 12-2fJ 58. NOTRE DAME 66 
Bowen 3-7 0-2 6, Nowlin 7-tt 0-0 14, Leary t-3 2-3 4, Washington 0-4 0-0 0, Orlosky 8-12 2-2 2fJ, Knapp 2-6 2-2 6, Smith 0-1 0-<l 0, Marciniak 4-5 0­
0 8, Haysbert 3-9 2-3 8. Total!l-28-58 8-12 66.
FOR DETAILS
• BEST SERVICE! Halhime-Notre Dame 34 Detroh 27. Three-point 
shootlng-Oetroit 0-2 (Martin 0-2), Notre Dame 24
To apply, submit a 2 page personal statement to 
• BEST TAN! 

(Orlosky 2-3, Marciniak 0-1 ). Rebound!I-Detron 34
• BEST DEAL! 

(Longar 10), Notre Dame 48 (Bowen 15). Asslsts­Expires March Detroh 12 (Kralza 5), Notre Dame 2fJ (WashingtonFor further illformation, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
;\!larguerite Schropp by Tues., February 25 at 5 p.m. 
6). Turnovers-Detroit 15, Notre Dame 27. Fouled out-Nowlln. A-609. 
********************************************... IllALUMNI
* *
co----­
SENIOR

# !~b& ntn~b Annna11 # # I tu1ntieRPest; i # 
~CLUB 
* 1*
* * 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS
* *
*: Friday, February 21 *: & 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93
: [ampuS-Wide : 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE.
: Skating Part~ : 
PICK THEM UP AT THE
*# 10:30-12:30 at the J.A.C.C. *# LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK.
* 25c skate rentals · * 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
: FREE HOT CHOCOLATE!! :
* ·-• & * MARCH 5, 1992
We reserve the right to exercise crowU control. 

* Saturday and Sunday * ~ February 22-23 : 
The Observer
*~ . SkiTrir ~ *: * tP ~ * 
Viewpoint Department 
~ Caberfar~~ 8t!!Hl~t # 
is now accepting applications for the 
~ Package include<~~ :
* *
•Overnight ? {ft ~ ..tions at the Days Inn 

following paid staff positions:
* •Free Co· *
'-' ,reakfast (Sunday AM)

* ~ /tt on Ski Rentals 
*

* I.~,. .vo-day lift ticket 
* 

Viewpoint Copy Editors
: (' ~ ONLY $65!! : 
* ~ Sign-ups for the *
* ::l!~\E:".!a:·.~ §]~d ~~::~:~ * 
* will be at the Student Government * Receptionist's Desk (IJARB)
* ~~~~~ * 
* •full Payment ~at the time of sign up. *
* * 
To apply, submit a 1 page personal statement to foe Moody by Wed .. , Februan; 26 at 5 p.m.
* • * 
For fitrther information, call The Observer at 239-5303.
* *
* *
* *
*******************************************# 

-----~--------~ 
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 21 , 1992 




TOHIGHT! TOHIGHT! 
JE\\IJErn.WlHIIT~CG MUJ~Lr @([))~~ 
Visit Ernie's for the best in orthopedic footwear and shoe repair, and let the poor shoe above rest in peace. 
~ ~~!kf!~a ~
Martin's 

~ ~ ~----·---newlocatia.:~~ o'l~ 
PEDORTHIC CENTER ERNIE'S B rK1 &SHOE REPAIR 10 ~.'2.'> 
M-F 8-5:30 Sat 8-4 13121 State Route 23 219 273-2124 
i£VTTitYXl.: $3.501--~~~~~o... 
All Shows Scottsdale Mall • 291-4583 
Before6 pm 
Cold·bloo ed murder. 

FINAL 

AIUUSIS ~ 
Ddy4:U, 7:DG, Ul !llf/9111 Z:DO. UD, 7:D0. UO 

Tvw~ & tvu~tv" $3.50 
AIIShows ----......

2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 
Before6 pm ' 


SPORTS BRIEFS 
.)> 
•Attention 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club: Anyone interested in showing this weekend at the Indiana University Horse Show in Bloomington, please contact Larissa at 289-7829. 

•Sign-ups 
for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament will be held this Sunday, February 23, from 1-5 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaugnessey. Teams should bring two team names, two captain names, and the $5 entrance fee. 

•Baseball 
and Lacrosse officials' meeting has been changed from February 26 to February 27. The baseball meeting is at 4:30 and lacrosse is at 5:30 in the J.A.C.C. 


SMC hoops face Hornets 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
After the disappointing loss to Olivet College that broke their five game winning streak, the Saint Mary's basketball team will travel to Kalamazoo, Michigan tonight to face the Hornets. 
Thursday's practice for the Belles consisted of an overview of the basic fundamentals. The Belles only hit only 9-of-14 free throws against Olivet as they only lost by eleven. 
"It makes a difference," stated assistant coach Jo-Ann Nester. "But we were extremely intense yesterday and intense today. We're ready to rebound from the loss." 
Tonight is the second game the Belles will be without one of their top players, senior forward Janet Libbing, who is out with a knee injury. She has contributed 235 points to the team, second only to senior forward Catherine Restovich, who has come through with 254 points. Nevertheless, the Belles are beginning to compensate for the loss. 
"Janet's got a positive attitude, and it's tough not to have her out there, but the rest of the players are rallying to replace her," stated Nester. 
Saint Mary's owns many key players necessary to win the contest against the Hornets. The team will look to junior centers Julie Snyder and Kim Holmes in leading them to their second straight win over the Hornets. 
However, the Belles will have to look out for Kalamazoo's key players as well. The Hornets have five key returnees, including senior forward Dawn 
Fekete (10.4 ppg) and junior guard Lisa Vedmore (13.7 ). 
"We've improved, they've improved; we can't take anything for granted," stated coach Cromer. "But after any loss, you're going to have some effect, yet we're confident enough to begin a new streak." 

Cop catches Tyson in fast lane 

WILLOUGHBY HILLS, OH {AP) -Boxer Mike Tyson, who faces sentencing next month on a rape conviction, was given a speeding ticket Tuesday night, police said. 
Tyson, 25, was stopped by police in this Cleveland suburb for allegedly traveling 73 mph in a 55-mph zone on Interstate 90, said police Lt. David Paterson. Tyson was driving a red 1991 BMW, police said. 
The arresting officer described Tyson as polite and courteous, Paterson said. 
Paterson said Tyson had an Ohio driver's license showing his residence to be in Windsor Township in Ashtabula County. Tyson is scheduled to appear in Willoughby Hills Mayor's Court on March 4, but could ·waive the court appearance by paying a $92 fine. 
Tyson was freed on $30,000
bond after his conviction last week on one count of rape and two counts of deviate sexual conduct. He faces six to 20 years in prison on each count. 
He was convicted of attacking Desiree Washington, a beauty pageant contestant Tyson had met at an Indianapolis hotel. 

..... 
Pfike Banwtt Thanks fora wonderful JPW l.ove, Nom and Dad 
AP File Pholo Boxer Mike Tyson, shown in his loss to Evander Holyfield, was arressted again .. .for speeding on a highway outside Cleveland. 
The Observer 
Sports Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paid staff positions: 
Associate Sports Editors Assistant Sports Editors Copy Editors 
To apply, submit a resume and 1 page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Mon., February 24 at 5 p.m. For further information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
fAJH{R of the BRID{ ~ 


PANGBORN HALL
Ddy 4:4, 7: II, t 15 
811/SU! Z:IO, 4:41, 7:1, tl5 




WAYNES 

GOING OUT OF BUSINESS 


\DLD 
~ AP.wMOUIIJ COMMUNJlAJIONS ~-rtf..'»!· RI&ComMiiii'Citnl'l,:=;:-';'"'"·"''-' 
011y ua,u5 811/11111 JZ: 5:1D, HD, t45 
SYR 


-... ,....... ~-........, ' , .. -­
Friday, February 21,1992 The Observer 
page 17 

Irish swim at East Champs 
Wrestlers to host OU, hit IU 
By JASON KELLY where they stand heading into 
Sports Writer the Midwestern Collegiate ByJIMVOGL Bloomington. ready. We've got to wrestle Sports Writer 
Conference Championships next In such a physically with confidence and just focus week at Rolfs Aquatic Center. demanding sport as wrestling,. on the match." 
After three weeks away from competition, the Notre Dame The women will compete with The Notre Dame wrestling rest is important. But Irish If history repeats itself, ND assistant head coach Rick
men's and women's swim teams only 14 swimmers this team faces back-to-hack should come out ahead in the 
weekend, but the small matches this weekend. They Stewart feels his team should be return to action this weekend at prepared. "I don't think it will
Rutgers University in the numbers shouldn't hinder the will host Ohio at 7:30 Friday Eastern Intercollegiate team, because the healthy night, and 24 hours later, will bother the team. At this point swimmers have proven that battle Indiana down in in the season, we've got to be
Conference Championships. 
they can pick up the slack forBoth teams took second place 

their injured teammates.

in last year's event, and they Against Illinois-Chicago, thewill have to swim well to repeat women cruised to a 124-87 win 
that performance this year 
with only eleven competitiors. 

against a field that includes On the men's side, several
West Virginia, Cleveland State, 
outstanding individual

George Washington and Saint performances have highlighted
Bonaventure along with host 
the 1992 season, but none haveRutgers. 

been more impressive thanIt will be an especially sophomore diver Sean Hyer.

challenging meet considering Hyer set a Rolfs Aquatic Center the Irish haven't raced since an 
pool record with a score ofemotional win over Illinois­

351.6 in the three meter divingChicago on January 29, but 

competition, breaking a five

coach Tim Welsh believes they year old record held by Mark
will be successful if they Rourke of Alabama. On theconcentrate on one race at a 
strength of that performance,

time. Hyer qualified for the Zone
"Our challenge this weekend Diving Competitions to be heldwill be to focus, concentrate in Minneapolis in March. 
and race the races as they come More performances like those
up," Welsh said. will be needed if the Irish are to
The Eastern Intercollegiate be successful this weekend, butChampionships will also give 
Welsh isn't worried about

the teams a good indication of winning and losing. 

Theories of Dispute Resolution 
A Symposium 

Roger Fisher Onora O'Neill 
Samuel Williston Professor Principal of Newnham College Harvard Law School Cambridge, England 
The Hon. Joseph F. Weis, Jr. Dayle E. Spencer 
DirectorSeniorJudge 

U.S. Court of Appeals Conflict Resolution Program for the Third Circuit The Carter Center of Emory University 
Douglas M. Johnston Peter Wallensteen, 
Executive V.P. and CEO Dag Hammarskjold Professor Center for Strategic Uppsula University & International Studies 
Sweden 

George A. Lopez Jorge Correa 
Former Dean, Diego Portales University
Faculty Fellow Director, Chilean National Commission for
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for 
International Peace Studies Truth and Reconciliation 
Friday, February 21, 1992 

9:01HO:IO DAYLE E. SPENCER-"LESSONS FROM Tilt. 
FIELD OF IJIITERNATIONAL CONFLICT" 

.10:2~11 :30 ROGER FISIIHR -"COPING WITil CONFLICT: WHAT KIND OF TIIEORY MIGIIT HELP" 
I:IG-2:20 DOUGU.S M. }0/INSTON-"RELIGION AND 
CONFLICT RESOLlTTION" 

2:30-3:40 TilE. IIONOIU.Bl.E JOSE.P/1 F. WE.IS. JR. • 
"ARE COURTS OBSOLETE?" 

3:~5:00 GEORGE. A. WI'E.Z-"TilE RELEVANCE OF DOMESTIC CONFLICT RFSOLlTTION TO 11\ITERNATIONAI. DISPlTTE SETTLEMENT: MYTIIS AND REALITIES" 
Saturday, February 22, 1992 n..bur~h Cmler Audilorium 
9:00.10:10 JORGE. CORREA -"DEALING WITII PAST IIUMAN RIGIITS VIOLATIONS: TilE CIIILEAN CASE AFTER DICTATORSHIP" 
10:2~11:30 PE.TE.R WALLE.NSTE.E.N-"GLOBAL PATTERNS OF CONFLICT AND TilE ROLE OF TIIIRD PARTIES" 
1:1~2:20 ONOIU. O'NEILL· "CAN REASON RF.SOLVE 
DISPVTES:'" 

-PRESENTED BY ­
THE NOTRE DAME LAW REVIEW THE CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS THE JOAN B. KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 
first match. The Irish have won all three previous meetings against the Bobcats, including a 44-0 slaughtering in their first meeting. But this year,Ohio (5­
3) will pose several challenges. 
Three Bobcat wrestlers are 
ranked in the latest Amateur 
Wrestling News poll, all of 
whom will test Irish freshmen. 
Junior Casey Yackin (25-7) is 
19th at 118 pounds, and will 
face Ed Jamieson (1-4); OU's 
134 pound sophomore Eric 
Kimble, rated lOth, will lock 
horns with Matt Beaujon (7-10­
2); and junior Paul Casey, 16th, 
will battle Mike Fox (8-14) at 
134. 

The Hoosiers appear to be 
struggling this year, posting a 
5-10 overall record including a 
2-4 mark in the Big Ten. They 
list only three wrestlers in their 
starting ten with winning 
records. 

Irish star senior Marcus 
Gowens (19-4) will match up 
against Chris Russo (13-10-5) at 
126; junior Emil Soehnlen 
hopes to get on track against 
Scott Petche (13-9-2) at 158; 
and heavyweight senior Chuck 
Weaver will try to regain 
national ranking status against 
IU's Vito Maurici (20-10-1). 
The weekend should provide 
a challenge for all levels of the 
Irish lineup. 
"Both teams are tough. Our 
team has to hit on all cylinders 
and dominate the matches. At 
this time of year, we're making 
good strides and if we remain 
focused and keep up our 
intensity, we should win both." 
Although wrestlers, coaches and fans pull for the team as a whole, realistically wrestling is an individual sport. And although head coach Fran McCann and his staff focus on a winning season, the wrestlers focus on preparing for the NCAA tournament and peeking at the right time. 
As Stewart explained, the pressure of this weekend's back-to-hack meets are nothing compared to the intensity of the NCAA Championships, which are held on three consecutive days (March 19-21). 
The Irish do boast several individual standouts who have legitimate shots at earning All­American status in the National tournaments. But Stewart stressed that at this point, "anything can happen." So for Gowens, Jamie Boyd, J.J. 
•

McGrew, Weaver, and the rest of the squad, every match is important. 

Say NOta Drugs 
I I I I I I I I I 

page 18 
.. 
• 
-r-_ ~ r" ~'\.-"r Chinese -American ~ '-'I"'J:..rl 1 Restaurant &
uALL Cocktail Lounge 
\I n Authentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Best 
Oriental Restaurant 

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by

130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Micfliww Now
(next to Randall"s Inn) 
J 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10pm Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20, 8:10pm Reserved seats: $7 Friday Feb. 21, 8:10pm Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10pm Student and senior citizen discounts Sund F b 2 are available for Wednesday
.. ay e . 3, 3:10pm Thursday and Sunday perfo;mances. 
TICkets are available_at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call239-8128 

The Observer Friday, February 21,1992 

Observer Staff Report 
Whether it's the Sugar Bowl or the National Team Indoor Championships Notre Dame has had it's way with the Florida Gators. 
The highly regarded Gators proved to be no match for the Irish as the mens' tennis team dominated Florida 6-0. t Florida had held a number five national ranking, five spots ahead of the tenth-ranked Irish. 
All-American David DiLucia led the onslaught, topping Bruce Haddad 6-3, 6-1. In number two singles, Andy Zurcher won the first set 7-5, then lost the second 4-6 before an injury forced Florida's Mark Merklein to retire from the match. 
In three and four singles, Will Forsyth easily handled David Blair 6-3, 6-3 and Chuck Coleman aced Gary Finnegan 6­4, 6-0. Mark Schmidt toppled Michael De Jongh 7-6, 6-3 and Chris Wojtalik won 6-3, 6-7, 6-2 over Doug Proudian in number five and six singles. 
Notre Dame improved to 5-0 on the season and will face the winner of the LSU/California match in the tournaments second round today. 


However, the strength of the Volunteers' doubles tandems proved to be too much for the Irish, as Tennessee swept all three matches in straight sets to escape with a 5-4 victory. 
"This match will be just like the fall," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "a tight match. We'll have to play well to beat them, but we are capable of doing it." 
This dual match will feature a 
No more co1Ulllllitdowlflls~ 21 lis here~ 
Happy Birthday, Mary Malone! 
UVI, M111, Dad, Buddy, !lizabetlt and Jehn 
and Eniko Bende, and then Harris and Schwab at third. 
"Melissa and Laura have been playing too well for us to keep them out of the lineup," said Louderback, referring to his decision to put a new doubles 

U.S. 31 North In Roseland (Across From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 
the next month. All are in or near the poLL 
"Any matches we win from here on in will be big wins for us," Said Louderback, "but I think we're capable of knocking off any bod . " 
FEBRUARY SPECIAL House Specialty Oven Baked Apple Pancakes
$'J 00 o;: 
Month 

No Coupon Needed Serving Michiana For Over 26 Years 
''Str01lg hod.ie• &gh.t •• th.at 11nakhodie• tn.ay he llDIIri•laed." 

62nd Annual Bengal Mission Bouts 
Feb. 23 2pmFeb. 26 7:30 pm Feb. 29 8:00 pm 
lficlcets 
aNIGHT PASS $6 (available at LaFortune Box Office) 
One Night Tickets Purchase at JACC Gate a 
----___________________________________j 
~--------~~ ---­
The Observer e, February 21, 1992 
BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

\Wt:.'St 1;)\SC.\l'S'SI~~S ~8t.R \W..T ~C)ffi 11-lG C:f) '.'1.\\t:Rt iWt:.~~ &-D I DO IS 
l'\Jt. C~C.L\l\)£1) 

S\l~t> To. t-\'i \=1\\JLT. __...~~ 
SPELUNKER 
.. 

Environmental disasters in a flea's world 
CROSSWORD 
CAMPUS 
Friday 
7:15 and 9:45p.m. Film: "Thelma and Louise." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing. Club House, Saint Mary's College. Admission $2. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Terminator 2." Cushing Audjtorium. Admission $2. 
Sponsored by SUB. 8:10p.m. Play: "Our Town." Mark Pilkinton, director. Washington Hall. 
Saturday 
10 a.m. "Community Master Class in Modern Cance Technique." Hollis Johnson, guest artist. Regina Dance Studio, SMC. 
7:15 and 9:45p.m. Film: "Thelma arid Louise." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 8 and 10:.30 p.m. Film: "Terminator 2." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2. 8:10p.m. Play: "Our Town." Mark Pilkinton, director. Washington Hall. Admission $2. 

LECTURES 
Friday 
1 p.m. "African American Catholics: Looking Ahead," M. Shawn Copeland, Yale University. Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Office of Minority, International and Non-Traditional Student Life (MINT) and Religious Studies, Saint Mary's College. 
47 "-Miserables" 10 -badgeACROSS 48 "-through the 11 Bay window 
Saturday
1 Nodded off Tulips" 12 In front of 6 Leaf through 51 Bowier's nemesis 15 Banner 10 Extinct bird 53 Ease 20 Turn a -ear 9 a.m. Conference: Theories of Conflict Resolution, "Dealing with Past Human Rights
13 Private-eye term 54 Consigned 21 Voice part 
Violations: The Chilean, Case After Dictatorship," Jorge Correa, Diego Portales University. 
14 Ten-commandment 58 Funereal item 23 Ralph Kramden's 
Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 
word 59 Anna Moffo, for vehicle 15 Bondman one 24 River in Spain 16 "~hat's -, girl 60 Slur, in music 25 Downtown Chicago
11 ke you ... 61 Infant 26 Mexican Indian 
17 -of the litter 62 Word with house or 28 Certain operation18 The Kingston -shop 30 Conducive to 19 Little-known or 63 Arthur Miller health MENU
abstruse character 32 Exist 21 One who attempts 64 Football measures 33 Satanic 22 Mise-en--(abbr.) 34 Apollo's instrument 
NOTRE DAME 
23 -Bailey 65 Forwarded 35 Certain votes 24 Popular tree 66 Foe 37 Director Mervyn­27 Crone 41 Meet a poker bet Baked Pollack 
28 Popular sandwich 42 Saga
DOWN Quiche Lorraine 
29 Constrictors 46 Laugh31 In an awesome 1 Lesion mark 48 Kind of cat 
Pasta Bar manner 2 Alley 49 Homer work Pastrami and Swiss Sandwich 36 -flush 3 "Odyssey" or SO The common people38 Thirties agency "Aeneid" 51 Mickey Mantle's 

SAINT MARY'S 
39 Kind of show 4 River to the Rio number 40 Like October's Grande 52 Claw stone 5 -coat 54 Ready Chicken Jambalaya43 Miss Moreno 6 Strictness 55 Exam-ending word 
Deli Bar 
44 Nobel prizewinner 7 Laundry-56 Dutch cheese 
Roast Beef w/au jus
in Chemistry 8 First-rate 57 Disavow 45 Droop 9 Enthusiast 59 Two, in Toledo Baked Tomato Broil 

S.U.B. COMMISSIONER. 
e n • n t: b A n n aa 1 
" Thursday, February 20 Applications are Now available tUt0~8R~8Sll 8 PM & 10:30 PM in the Student Government Office. 
Saturday and Sunday

February 21 Anyone looking for an exciting 
February 22-23 lrltll!~\II~A\ lr•Oil! ~ 
and challenging position 
Ski Trip Friday, February 21 
with the Student Union Board should: :
[ampuS-UUde 
to Saturday, February 22 
apply NOW!!
Bkatlng Part}} 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Cabtirfillll Shi B@sort 

Package includes: Applications are DUE March 6. 
10:30-12:30 at the J.A.C.C. Shown in
Overnight accommodations at the Days Inn 25( skate rentals Cushing Auditorium
• Free Continental Breakfast (Sunday AM)& Admission $2.
• Discount on Ski Rentals 

FREE HOT CHOCOLATEll • Two-day lift ticket 
THE SHIRT 
On Sale Now at the 
ONLY $65!! 

Student Government Office from9 AM toSPM ONLY $5!! 
_... ...., ....~. ·"''-lL ......... ,._ ..... _, ..._ ..... • • • • • • • -~-•.. 

... 




Sports 
page 20 
Maclean, Bruins invade JACC 

Bengal Bouts will begin Sunday Women's hoops top 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
Tlw NotrP I>arm~ 's men's bas­kPtball tPam fan~s its latest top 25 tParn on Saturday when the second-ranked UCLA Bruins pay a visit to the Joyce /\CC at 2 p.m. 
Tlw post-season hopes of the Irish could hinge on the out­conw of tlw sold out contest. !\ win would put them one game below the .500 mark and would be tlwir fourth win over a top 25 team. 
"We've won three games in a row. and we don't have a lot of
• 
games left." Irish coach John MacLeod said. ''I'd assume it would take at least 15 wins to get in (to the NC/\1\ 
Wear Green! 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's basketball tParn will take on UClA on Saturday at 2 p.m. in front of a sPIIout crowd at the .Ioyce /\CC. 
Tlw game will be broadcast by NBC. and it will be NBC analyst /\1 Mr<;uin• 's last visit to tlw .1/\CC. 
To help IPad tlwrn to anotlwr nationally tPlevisPd ups1~t. all students arP Pneouraged to WPar grPPn to tlw contest. 
By CEOH<;J~ I>OIIHM/\NN 
Sports WritPr 
The 62nd annual Bengal Mission Bouts will begin Sunday with quartPrlinal action taking place at 2 p.m. in thP .1/\CC liPidhousP. 
ThP Bouts haVP been fought sinct> thP I <J30's, and have raist>d owr $300,000 dollars for thP lloly Cross Missions in BangladPsh. 
/\long with tlw eharital aspect of tlw Bfmgal Bouts comes a rirh tradition of top-flight box­ing. This year looks to be no exeeption. 
In the 135-lb division last yPar. unknown freshman Jeff (;erbPr stunned the field by topping MikP Jenninngs to cap­ture the title. Gerber decided to add bulk and move up to the I 40-lb division this year, open­ing the door for senior Tim Phelan. Phelan lost in the finals in the 130-lb division last year and is considered the slight
• 
favorite in a competitive weight dass. 
"If you go solely on experience then I guess myelf and also Drew DoughPrty, who has been boxing for four years also, are top contenders," said Phelan. "You never really know, sometimes there are boxers who shine in the tournament."
' 
Gerber is the man to beat in the 140-lb class. The darkhorse could be Dan Mullen. the lone senior in a weight class filled with five sophomores. Last year's champion Joe Carrigan fell victim to injury and was advised not to compete in the bouts. 
Lou Hall and Matt Mullarkey, runners-up in the 150-lb and 145-lb divisions in last year's bouts. appear headed for a matchup in the 145-lb final. 
Searching for his third Bengal Bouts title will be Erik Milito. The 150-lb senior toppled Mullarkey in the 145-lb class in Tournament)." 
!\ loss would leave Notre Danw at 10-I2. with tough games against 24th-ranked St. John's at horne and DePaul and Evansville on the road remain­ing. 
The Bruins entered last night's game against Stanford with a 20-I record. Their lone loss carne on January 29, when they were shocked at home by top 25 USC at the Pauley Pavilion, 86-82. 
"This is another great UCLA ball club. It is going to be a tremendous challenge," MacLeod commented. 'They are not an easy team to match up against because they are a small, quick team that has some great outside shooters." 
As a team, UCLA has a shot 
50.7 percent from the field and 42 percent from behind the three-point line. The Bruins are led by the twosome of senior Don McLean and junior Tracy Murray. 
The six-foot-ten MacLean, a potential NBA lottery pick, leads UCLA in almost everything. Through 21 games, he is averaging 21.1 points and 7.8 rebounds per game, ineluding a 31{ point. nine rebound perfor­mance in the Bruins' 89-87 win at Arizona. which snapped the Wildcats' 7 I -game home win-

Detroit, 56-58 


By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team took over sniP possession of second place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a 66-58 victory over Detroit Mercy last night at the Joyce ACC. 
The win, eoupled with Loyola's 61-50 victory over Dayton. moved the Irish (8-14, 5-4) a half game in front of idle Butler and a full game over the Flyers in the conference standings. Notre Dame will have a chance to stretch its lead on Saturday as the Irish host Butler (11-11, 4-4) in their final home game of the season. 
"I never thought we'd be 

The Observeri/Davilee saying that we're excited to be 
A Notre Dame athletic tradition, the Bengal Bouts get under way this in second place, but we're 
weekend. The quarterfinals will be held on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
really happy with the way we're 
1991. Milito holds an edge in both skill and experience, as he is the sole senior in the division. Dan Schmidt, in his first year of competition, and Anthony Cornetta have looked impressive during workoputs. 
"Eric (Milito) has to be con­sidered the favorite," said Schmidt. "Don't count out Cornetta. He has been working hard. has nifty foot work and a lightning fast jab." 
Shane llitzman will look to hit his way into his second con­secutive 155-lb final. Last year Colin Mullaney outlasted Hitzman for the title, but Mullaney's move in weight class opens the door for Hitzman. 
Mullaney was the favorite in the 160-lb class the minute he tipped the scale above the 155­lb mark. The Virgina native will be challenged by an experi­enced field which contains six 
ning streak. He is also among the nation's leadPrs with a 90.7 free throw percentage. 

"Most teams would be lucky enough to have one forward with the ability of a Don McLean," UCLA coaeh Jim Barrick said. "We are lucky II! --­
..
enough to have two forwards with th~t ability in Tracy ~~ (Murray) and Don. Tracy is one of the finest ~ong range shooters in the college game today. Teams can't key on MacLean because of Tracy's offensive abilities. They complement each other very well." 
Murray, who entered the Stanford game averaging 20.2 ppg and 6.6 rpg, has the ability to give the Bruins three points in a hurry whenever they need it, as he is shooting 52.9 percent from downtown. 
"UCLA is a good ball club be­cause they can kill you in so many ways," Notre Dame's leading scorer and rebounder LaPhonso Ellis said. "MacLean is a good post man, and Murray can shoot the threes." 
The Irish are. coming off Tuesday's sluggish performance in which they topped Marquette, 60-53. To upset the Bruins, they will have to show the abililty they did in last 
The Observer/John Rock 
Saturday's 101-98 win over #10 Irish senior forrward Damon Sweet. pictured against Syracues, willSyracuse at the Carrier Dome. 

need a big game for the Irish to upset third-rated UCLA Saturday. 
However, I 2 first-half turnowrs by the Irish helped tlw Titans stay in the ganw. as ND h•d only 34-27 at tlw half. 
The Irish stretdwd their IParl roming out of the bn~ak, extending it to as much as 17, 54-37. with 9:5H remaining in tlw game. But they couldn't put Detroit away, as starters LPlitia Bowen (who had a eareer-high 15 rebounds) and Margaret Nowlin each picked up their fourth fouls. 
The Titans took advantagP of their absence, pounding the ball inside to center Ileather Longar, who led the Titans with I 4 points. Notre Dame's problems were compounded when guard Coquese Washington reaggravated a knee injury, and had to sit out the last 4:43 of the game. 
"Coquese js a big part of our offense," noted McGraw. "She can settle us down at the end of the game, and it was hard not having her in there." 
Still, Detroit was down by 13, 62-49, with 3:48 left when it made its final run. Aided by a controversial intentional foul call on Nowlin with 2:11 remaining, the Titans ran off nine straight points to close within four, 62-58, with 55 seconds to go. 
But with Nowlin, the team's leading scorer, out of the game, the Irish fought back and regained the momentum. Sophomore Kara Leary hit two clutch free throws with 39 seconds on the clock to up the lead back to six. 

"Those free throws were big," said McGraw. "For Kara coming 
see DETROIT/ page 14 
upperclassmen. 

Barring an unexpected upset, Scott Mulcahy and Tim Trainor will battle for the 165-lb title, a repeat of their showdown in the 170-lb class last year. Trainor was disqualified in last year's semifinal, but was allowed to fight Trainor in a non-divisional bout. Mulcahy was given the title, but Trainor got the last word by winning a unanimous decision. 
Kerry Wate added five pounds to his frame and will look to add to his total of Bengal Bout titles in the 170-lb weight class. Wate's hunt for his fourth championship will begin with sophomore Cliff Clancy. Southpaw Jim McMahon has shown promise in workouts, and could surprise the heavily favored Wate. 
Wate downplayed the role his 
see BOUTS/ page 14 playing now," said Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. 
The Irish were never in serious trouble in last night's game. The Lady Titans' only lead was 2-0, and that was quickly erased by two three­point bombs by sophomore Sherri Orlosky, who Jed all scorers with 20 points. 
"Sherri came out in the first half and played extremely well," said McGraw. "She's shooting the ball with confidence, and that's all we need her to do." 
''I've been relaxed going into the game," added Orlosky. ''I've been playing within the offense, getting the open shots and making them." 

Notre Dame shot over 53 percent in the first half, while holding Detroit (13-11, 3-6) to just 35 percent shooting. 







