
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 19 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush proposes tax alternative to bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -On the verge of vetoing a family leave bill for the second time, Presi­dent Bush on Wednesday be­latedly proposed a $500 million tax credit alternative to the Democrats' compulsory ap­proach. 
Bush complained it was "very peculiar and highly political" for the Democrats to wait this late in the election year to re­new the fight over whether businesses should be required to give workers unpaid time off to care for a newborn child or sick relative. 
But Bush, who has positioned the GOP as the defender of fam­ily values, let two years lapse after his last veto of a family leave bill before rushing out his voluntary proposal with the ink still wet. 
"Today, George Bush showed his true colors on family val­ues," Democratic nominee Bill Clinton said in a statement dis­tributed by his campaign. "Given a chance to help work­ing families, he's walked away again." 
"After four years of denying working Americans the right that people in 72 other nations have, Bush offered a last­minute mandate," said Clinton, who strongly supports the Democrats' bill. "His tax credit does nothing to guarantee that workers will have leave or a job if they're allowed to return." 
Bush said the Democrats sat on their own proposal for a year. 
"Unfortunately, they and my opponents believe in a gov­ernment-dictated mandate that increases costs and loses jobs," said Bush, adding, "There's an awful lot of politics at play here." 
The bill passed by Congress would require employers with more than 50 workers to allow employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave annually to deal with medical emergencies, in-· eluding the birth of a child, 
Students cheered ND walk-on 
By MICHELLE CROUCH News Writer 
With one minute remaining in the Notre Dame*Georgia Tech game in 1975. one stu­dent started chanting "We want Rudy! We want Rudy!" Soon, the whole student section had picked up the chant. 
The Irish were beating Georgia Tech 24-3 with 27 seconds remaining when walk-on Dan "Rudy» Ruettiger entered the game as defensive end. 
Ruettiger played the first two downs of his college career, made one tackle for a five-yard-loss and was 
see WALK·ON I page 4 
adoption or a sickness in the family. 
Bush's proposal would allow businesses with fewer than 500 workers to write off their taxes up to $20 per day for as many as 60 days of leave a year per worker, or a maximum of $1,200 per employee. 
The White House said Bush would pay for the tax credits by cutting other spending. Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the minority whip, said Bush would propose trimming doctors' and hospitals' lab fees and other administrative costs paid for by the government. 
Bush said at a meeting with GOP leaders that "There's some $60 billion that (the Office of Management and Budget) knows about where we can al­locate to this." 
Rep. Patricia Schroeder. D­Colo., called Bush's proposal "half-baked" and said if Bush knows where $60 billion can be found, he should spend some of it on Head Start, immunization and nutrition programs for poor children. 
White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said nine out of 10 workers in big-and medium-sized companies al­ready have family leave plans. 
"The great need is at the lower end," he said, but the Democrats' bill "doesn't apply to companies under 50 people." 
Fitzwater said the White House made overtures before to the Democratic leaders. but "they refused to discuss any­thing that was not mandated." 
The family leave bill passed both chambers with bipartisan support, and Republican back­ers expressed skepticism at Bush's tax-credit proposal. 
Rep. Marge Roukema, R-N.J., said she was "somewhat per­plexed" by the timing of Bush's proposal. "It may be an inter­esting supplement, but it is not a substitute for this bill," she said. 

The Observerffom Zipprich 

A death defying leap 
Chris Murdy, a fifth year architecture student, takes the quick way down the stairs of the Architecture Building on his bike yesterday afternoon. 

Keeling: Thinking will stop spread of AIDS 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Only individual thinking and decision-making will stop the spread of AIDS and other sexu­ally transmitted diseases in a world dominated by media im­ages of consumers' idealism, according to Dr. Richard Keel­ing, director of the Student Health Center at the University ofVirginia. 
Victims of these diseases are guilty of nothing other than growing up in the image-ori­ented world of the 1980's and 1990's, said Keeling, an expert on AIDS awareness and educa­tion. 
Throughout childhood and adolescence, students are con­tinually sent messages to "Just Say No," he said in a lecture at Saint Mary's yesterday. 
Thinking is what students need to do before making deci­sions about behavior, Keeling said. Ads such as Nike's "Just do it," and the "Just say no" campaign encourage this lack of thought. 
"Don't say no, don't say just do it," he said. "(Say) I must decide for myself what I am going to do. I've got to make this work for myself." 
"We tend to model what we see,'' he continued. "Most cul­tures raise their children that way. We don't know what we are." 
Using slides of popular adver­tisements for clothing, fra­grance, athletic shoes, and beauty items to explain how image-oriented media plays on people's low self-concept, Keel­ing said that society and the media raise children to emulate what they see, and the college experience further adds a unique opportunity to be influ­enced by new models. 
"We want to fit in," he said. "We've got a lot of people to watch. Where we once saw our own experience, we now watch 
see KEELING I page 4 


ND '76 football_player to be subject of film shot on campus 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
The story of 1976 Notre Dame graduate and football player Daniel "Rudy" Ruettiger will be the subject of a feature film that will be shot entirely on campus later this fall, according to Richard Conklin, associate vice president for University relations. 
The film, "Rudy," "is not a football movie," said Ruettiger. "It is an account of the human spirit, relationships, people having dreams, blue collar life and the dream of a son in a Catholic family of fourteen," he said. 
Ruettinger came up with the idea for the film when he ad­dressed a Notre Dame Club in 1982 and they responded to it by saying that his story should be told to the public, he said. He continued to speak to alumni centers, high schools and or­ganizations that all reiterated the need for the account to be told on a larger basis, he said. 
Through various friends and contacts in the film industry, Reuttinger was able to find a production company, director and screenwriter to put his story on film. The film will be a Tri-Star Pictures production that will be directed by David Anspaugh and written by screen writer Angelo Pizzo, both of whom teamed up for the 1986 hit "Hoosiers," said Reuttinger. 
The actors for the film have not yet been confirmed, but Reuttinger said that Sean Aston had been meP-tioned to play him and that other actors proposed to star in the film may include John Voigt and Ned Beatty. 
The story is an inspirational account, said Reuttinger. It be­gins with his participation in a retreat held at Notre Dame during his senior year in high school. The retreat sparked his love of the University and desire to be a student here. Un­fortunately, he said, he "did not have the grades and was not exactly a prime candidate for admission." 
After high school graduation, Ruettinger worked for a power plant for two years, served in the Navy for two years, and then returned to the power plant for two more years, he said. 
All of this time, he continued to dream of attending Notre Dame and during a visit for a football game, found a way to achieve this dream by attending Holy Cross Junior College, he said. 
Ruettinger applied to Notre Dame twice and was rejected twice before his eventual accep­tance that came upon his grad­uation from Holy Cross, he said. He entered Notre Dame as a junior at the age of 25 and walked on to the football team in 197'"4 under the then Irish coach Ara Parseighian, he said. 
Due to Parseghian's retire­ment after the 1974 season, Ruettinger was forced to again try out for the team for Coach Dan Devine. 
He once again achieved walk on status, but due to a new NCAA rule that season, stating that only a certain amount of players can dress for a home game and, conversely, a certain amount for an away game, Ruettinger had never dressed for a game with only one home game left in the season. But, at Notre Dame all seniors are able to dress for the last game of their senior season. He was almost the exception to this rule, he said. 
Ruettinger was able to dress for the final home game against Georgia Tech. He was put into the game with 27 seconds remaining and made the last tackle of the game, he said. 
"'Rudy'" will be the story of human perseverance," said Ruettinger. 
~----------------------------------------~------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


ND family member is back 
The phrase "Notre----------­
Dame Family" is probably one that has been lacking in your vocabulary and thoughts during the last four months, but defmitely one that will make a big appearance over the next eight. 
It was an event that occurred 34 weeks ago late tonight that defined 
Sarah Doran 
News Copy Editor 

the term for many of us..------------­On that night, the bus carrying the women's swim team back to campus after a meet against Northwestern skidded to a premature halt that resulted in the deaths of two freshman swimmers and the serious injury of a third. 
The way that this tragedy brought the University together is unparalleled in any way. As we mourned the loss of the two women and shared the grief of their families and of the team, we rallied around the recovery of Haley Scott, who suffered a grave spinal injury that shattered a portion of her backbone and left her temporarily paralyzed. 
Her story was told by media spanning the country. Scott received letters from Vice President Dan Quayle, from swim teams across the country, from famous actors and musicians, from friends of the University and even from random well-wishers who knew nothing about her other than the gravity of her injury. 
The campus supported her on a large scale by having each student, instructor and administrator sign what may be the largest get well card ever. Individually, visitors came bearing stuffed animals, flowers, food, even daily Yo-Cream taken from the dining hall in a thermos. 
Any injury to the spine is an extremely serious one that, if one is able to recover from it, can often take years. That is what makes Scott's story all the more fantastic. She wiggled her toes the Tuesday after the accident. (The feeling of euphoria in her hospital room at the time was so great that her roommate took still pictures of the moving toes to capture the moment.) 
Scott's spirit gave back to the Notre Dame community tenfold what it had given her in support. Her determination and recovery helped in countless ways to alleviate the grief of the tragic accident. 
Early this summer while most of Scott's peers were engrossed in their summer jobs and relaxation, she underwent two additional surgeries to further correct her injury. Doctors predicted that her recovery would force her to stay at home for the fall semester. But, again Haley pulled an enormous recovery and returned to school last Friday. 
Throughout our lives we will encounter events that call for our support and aid. In the continuing recovery of Haley Scott, the "Notre Dame Family" has provided the means of support that has infinitely contributed to her incredible recovery. 
But, more importantly, her character, attitude, determination and recovery has given the "Notre Dame Family" much more support and recovery than it could ever give her. 
The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Alicia Reale Jennifer Habrych  Production Kim Massman Cheryl Moser  
Sports John Jensen  Systems Matt Carbone Chris Caracciolo  
Viewpoint Cheryl Moser  Accent Laurie Sessa Susan Marx  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 
WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
[i1]
L ~ 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
-NATIONAL 
City enacts 'domestic partnership' law 
•cAMBRIDGE, Mass. -The City Council voted to adopt the state's frrst ordinance broadening the legal definition of families to include gay and lesbian couples. Cambridge is the 19th city in the nation to adopt a "domestic partnership" law that extends some of the legal rights provided married couples to homosexual partners, according to city council member Alice Wolf. The ordinance will take effect in November and allow homo­sexual couples to be considered a family upon registering with the city. Among other things, the law will guarantee homosexual couples visitation rights to hospitals and de­tention centers and provide health care benefits for city employees and their partners. 

Kimg turns down settlement offer 
•LOS ANGELES-Rodney King turneo down an offer of $1.25 million from the City Council to settle his police­brutality lawsuit. King had sought $6 million to settle the lawsuit he filed after his videotaped beating by four Los Angeles officers in 1991. The couneil voted on Tuesday to offer King a lump sum of $250,000 and set up a $1 million fund that would pay $75,000 a year for a guaranteed 20 years. City Attorney James Hahn said the value of the offer could exceed $3 million, depending on how long the 27­year-old King lives.. King's lawyer, Steven Lerman, immediately rejected the offer as "indieative of a gross insensitivity" toward King. Lerman said he will prepare his case for trial, which would follow a criminal case brought against the four officers by the U.S. Justice Department. That trial is expected to begin in February. King initially sued for $56 million. 


OF INTEREST 
•Memorial 
Mass for Karen Whitman in Saered Heart Basilica, tonight at 5 p.m. 

•Arts 
and Letters Placement Night -A focus on interviewing techniques and career opportunities for graduating Arts and Letters students. Presented by representatives from: Anderson Consulting, Cargill, The Office of the Governor, and Proctor & Gamble. Tonight from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Open to all majors. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•S TRADING September 16 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 277,345,390 +0.03 to 231.07 S&P COMPOSITE +0.15 to 419.92 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -8.11 to 3,319.21

UNCHANGED 577 

GOLD 
-$0.40 to $346.90 oz 
SILVER +$0.035 to $3.806 oz 
Thursday, September 10, 1992 
FORECAST 
Partly cloudy and warmer today with highs in the mid 80s. Partly sunny chance of afternoon showers, ..high in the low 80s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  
Anchorage  59  
48  
Atlanta  80  
62  
Bogota  68  
42  
Boston  64  
53  
Cairo  90  
72  
Chicago  80  
63  
Cleveland  74  
54  
Dallas  89  
72  
Detroit  70  
56  
Indianapolis  77  
57  
Jerusalem  77  
63  
London  63  
48  
Los Angeles  81  
64  

{) 



INDIANA 

Teen shaves female profile off head 
•coLUMBUS, Ind. -Cindy Clark wasn't going to split hairs with school officials when they ordered her 13­year-old stepson to shave the profile of a nude woman off the back of his head. The eighth-grader showed up at Central Middle School this month sporting the haircut, which features an arrow near his neck and at about mid­cranium the female figure that is popular on truck mud flaps. The arrow was plainly visible, but the profile was somewhat obscured by longer locks. Although Jeremy claimed that he showed off his 'do only during lunch period and between classes, school officials said the haircut caused a disturbance. Jeremy was given the op­tion of serving an in-school suspension until his hair grew out or shaving it off. 

CAMPUS 

Securitv to hold public auction ' 
•NOTREDAME-On 
Wednesday, Sept. 23, Notre Dame Security will hold a public auction. The event will be held in Stepan Center, with doors opening at 6 p.m. and the auction beginning at 6:30 p.m. Items to be auctioned will include bicycles, calculators, watches, and other items recovered by the Security Department but never claimed by the rightful owner. "They are items that were either lost and never claimed or obtained through a case," said Irvin Sikorski, staff lieutenant. He added that the small amount of money raised in the annual event goes back into Notre Dame Security's budget. "Anything we recover we hold for a year before putting it up for auction," said Sikorski. Students, faculty and staff are invited to participate in the auction. 

•ND/SMC 
Ballroom Dance Club will hold its frrst meeting tonight at Stepan Center from 8-9:30 p.m. No experience needed. 

•Doug 
Grazer on WSND-FM's Nocturne. Hear the best classic rock/alternative show in Michiana tonight at midnight on Notre Dame's own WSND-FM, 88.9. Call in your requests at 239-734 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1787: The Constitution of the United States was 

completed and signed by a majority of delegates attending the Philadelphia convention. 

•In 
1939: The Soviet Union invaded Poland, more than two weeks after Nazi Germany launched its pre-emptive assault. 

• 
In 1978: After meeting at Camp David, Israeli Prime 


Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat signed a framework for a peace treaty. 
• In 1980: Former Nicaraguan president Anastasio Somoza was assassinated in Paraguay. 
~-----...---~------------------------­
Thursday, September 17, 1992 The Observer page 3 

Britain tries to stabilize the pound 
LONDON (AP) -Britain fran­tically tried to stabilize the weakening pound Wednesday by hiking interest rates, buying large amounts of the currency and suspending its foreign-ex­change links to other European countries. 
Britain's actions intensified a sense that cooperation among the powerful nations of Western Europe is splintering even as they are seeking to forge closer unity. 
That added to the monetary turmoil gripping Europe and spread economic anxiety else­where, including the United States, which already is grap­pling with a stunted economy and an uncertain outlook. 
Capping one of the most con­vulsive and frenetic trading days ever, the Treasury an­nounced late Wednesday it would suspend the pound from the European exchange rate mechanism, which sets maxi­mum fluctuation rates for ma­jor European currencies. 
This means Britain no longer is obligated to use interest rate adjustments to keep the pound within limits specified by agreement with its European trading partners. The move al­lows the pound to reach what­ever level is determined by the global currency market. 
"The new exchange rate will depend on what the market fixes," British Treasury spokesman Richard Evans said. "The market is so volatile, it's impossible to say what that might be now." 
In New York, where fmancial markets were still open at the time of the announcement, the pound continued to plunge. It was quoted at $1.7990 half an hour after the announcement after falling from $1.8695 dur­ing the European trading day. 
Earlier in the day, the Bank of England had announced two sharp increases in its base in­terest rate, first from 10 per­cent to 12 percent. When that failed to lift the pound, the bank raised the rate to 15 percent. 
Amid the announcements Wednesday evening, the bank said it would rescind the second increase, leaving its base rate at 12 percent, still among the highest in the world. 
Interest rates are a key tool countries use to defend the value of their currencies. Higher rates make a currency worth more but they stifle eco­nomic expansion by making it more expensive to borrow. When one country raises rates, it puts pressure on others to do likewise. 
Britain's move was only part of an increasingly chaotic eco­nomic situation in Europe that has unnerved financial markets in recent weeks. 

The Bring Your Buddy Barbecue 
•Today• 
on Haggar Terrace at Saint Mary's College from 5:30 -8:00 
Plastic cups will be sold at the door $3 for one, $5 for two 
• Live Music • Palace Laundry 
Everyone Welcome! 

0Greatpay0 Flexible hours 

0 Free meals & unifunns 
0 Awards for~ driving
0 CleaJi & friendly workplao! 
~ O!allenging, fun work 
~ Pay increases twice a year 
~ Opportunity to purchase PepsiCo stock 
~ Child care disoounts 
~ Credit union 
~ Great career opportunities 
~ Reimbursement allowance r:•Jc I"" ,tupJ 
~Paid vacation• 
0 MedicaL'Life benefits• 
0 SharePower buying option~ • 
• NO( e/Jf.'Cti\'Cjir.il da_,. of cmplo_,·menl 
YOU DO BELONG W!TH THE BEST! 

Bosnian Serbs call for a cease-fire 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP)­An assembly of Bosnian Serbs declared their intention to remain in Yugoslavia on Wednesday and called on Bosnia's beleaguered govern­ment to agree to a cease-fire in the embattled republic. 
The Serbs appeared to be staking out a bargaining posi­tion two days before peace talks between Bosnia's Muslims, Serbs and Croats are set to be­gin in Geneva. The Serbs claim to hold two-thirds of Bosnian territory. 
There was no immediate re­sponse from the Muslim-led Bosnian government, which fears the Muslims could be left empty-handed if the republic is divided between Serbs and Croats. 
I 
I "I 
i i 
The Observer/Scott Schittl 

Clean laundry 
Dustin Stwalley, a Sorin hall sophomore, locates his bundle of freshly cleaned clothes at St. Michael's laundry yesterday. 
The Muslims have a shaky al­liance with the Croats, some of whom have said they wish to unite a chunk of Bosnia with Croatia, another former Yu­goslav republic. 
The United Nations has de­manded the warring parties recognize Bosnia's current borders, but many fighters ap­pear convinced that an eventual settlement of the Balkan war will involve recognition of land seized by combatants. 
Fighting sparked by Bosnia's secession from Yugoslavia in February has already killed more than 10,000 and dis­placed more than 1 million people. 
On Wednesday, government forces dug into new positions in a western Sarajevo suburb in anticipation of another push by Serb forces. 
Sarajevo residents ventured out of their homes despite oc­casional shelling overnight. 
ln related events Wednesday: 
•In New York, U.N. diplomats said Russia had agreed not to veto the suspension of Serb-led Yugoslavia. The United States and European Community plan to oust Yugoslavia from the General Assembly and other 
U.N. agencies to punish the Serbs for their involvement in Bosnia's war. 
In Moscow, Yugoslav Premier Milan Panic said Yugoslavia would then reapply for its U.N. seat, and Russian Foreign Min­ister Andrei Kozyrev said he would support the move, the ITAR-Tass news agency said. 
European Community envoy Lord Owen and U.N. represen­tative Cyrus Vance, the former 
U.S. secretary of state, said peace talks scheduled to begin Friday in Geneva would con­tinue regardless of whether Yugoslavia were suspended from the United Nations. 

TI-lE POINTE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
:For (jraduate Students and:Jacu[ty 
We afso liave furnished e~ecutive suites 
Office :]{ours: Monday-~riday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 La.Saf{e .9Lvenue, Soutli 13enc£, Inaiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, September 17, 1992 
r i Bangladesh combats campus terror 
l DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP)­would use the law to suppress jority and passage is expected New anti-terrorist legislation its critics. to be a formality. will allow the government to The new plan will create spe­Campuses in Bangladesh quell riots that break out on cial tribunals to try terrorist traditionally are breeding university campuses with cases within three months of grounds for political activists. alarming frequency, Prime arrest. The courts can impose Often, student leaders remain Minister Khaleda Zia said. penalties ranging from the enrolled long after they finish 
The bill was approved by the death sentence for murder to their studies so they can carve Cabinet on Monday and will be five years imprisonment for out political careers. signed into law this week, Zia offenses such as harassing In late 1990, the street told The Associated Press. women. demonstrations that drove 
An earlier attempt to pass The statute will be subject to President Hussain Muhammed anti-terrorism legislation met approval later by Parliament, Ershad from power were engi­with stiff resistance from the which is in recess until next neered from Dhaka University opposition Awami League, month. Zia's Bangladesh Na­and other campuses around the which claimed the ruling party tionalist Party has a solid rna-country. 

Keeling 
continued from page 1 
the lives of a lot of other peo­ple." 
He added that these ads give people conflicting messages, citing an ad for women's razors in which a woman sits in a chair as a man sits at her feet, touching her legs. 
"Women get conflicting mes­sages today," he said. "'Be powerful, be assertive, don't let anything stand in your way,' and then through the media, 
Walk-on 
continued from page 1 
carried off the field by his teammates. 
The twenty-seven seconds on the field that made Ruettiger a legend on .campus almost never 
women become animals or ob­jects. They make judgments based on instinct." 
The association between al­cohol and sex is emphasized on college campuses as students who have been subconsciously trained to model others see ads in which people drinking are having fun with others who are attractive or dressed provoca­tively. 
"They say you don't have to have alcohol to have a good time, but all the ads say it's fun," he said. 
"The small act of ending the association between beer and 
year, Ruettiger ran into the locker room to see the dress list for Saturday's game, but his name was not on the list. 
While Ruettiger had only been a member of the scout team, he had hoped that Head Coach Dan Devine would be impressed by his persistence and dress him for his last home game. 
sex will end sexually transmit­ted diseases," he said. 
Programs urging students to abstain from alcohol and pres­sured sex make them aware of the involved dangers, but also conflict with what society tells them, Keeling said. 
In this society of television images have spoiled the notion of free thinking for today's youth, Keeling said. 
Keeling said that this lack of thinking is what puts this gen­eration at risk for the dangers associated with uncontrolled al­cohol consumption and unpro­tected sex. 
later discovered that they went to Devine and asked to give up their uniforms for Ruettiger. 
Friday night, his name ap­peared on the dress list and history was made. 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
The Observer/Scott Schittl 

A look inside 
The coats of the firemen of the Notre Dame fire department hang in place inside the fire station until the firemen's next call. 
~am &joe... not re~pomible. not imane. 
RAISE A COOL
came to be. What Ruettiger did not realize On the Thursday before the was the respect and loyalty his 
11000 
FEAllJRI~G DAVID CARRADINE BILL COBBS 
game, the last of his senior teammates had for him. He IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
JOHN CUSACK ARLO GUTHRIE TIMOTHY LEARY .PLUS $1000 FOR TilE 
F 
FINELINE MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
(][]1......-1 OlUGM \lOTl!MCTl'RESOl \DlR\CK AI'IIL\BlE 0\ VANGUARD"' FEATUREs
Been Sleeping in Bars 
[!IJA OI'PI!'nt..C..C.,AI..,.IWM:i RECOROSCASSETIISA\DCOMPAClOIID ,..d..._.,.,_ 1_c
No obligation. No cost. You also get aFREE 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
HEADPHONE RADIO 
CIDEffiR RT THE SDITE
Lately Vick? 
just for calling 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 ' 9:45
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
Hope You Made It 
rd 
Through Your 23 
Happy Birthday 
xo 
R U Stuck Here While 
Start your weekend
The TIIrn$Ihl Duel It Out At Michigan State? 
off right!
Well then come to the COCKPIT!!! Located in the Basement of Flanner Tower. Come see the Irish on a 
LARGE SCREEN TV. 
The COCKPIT also has great things to 
Lunch 
eat, like Pizza, Hot Dogs, Nachos, Hot Pretzels, Subs, and a whole lot more. So GO IRISH and see you in the 
12 2 
COCKPIT, as we take off to victory!!!!! Get a Double Pepperoni 16" Pizza and Two 44 oz. Pepsi's for only $8.00 
GOOD WHILE SUPPUES LAST 
this Friday 
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER GOOD ONLY FOR SEPTEMBER 19111 
mustbe21

THE COCKPIT 283-2705 


Thursday, September 17, 1992 The Observer page 5 
I ELECTION '92 /~ 
. »~~ 
Clinton describes revival plan in L.A. riot area 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Bill Clinton visited the area of last spring's riots Wednesday, join­ing students at a practice "bank" and describing a $1.5 billion program he said would nurture small business and help rebuild poor communities. 
"We need to bring free en­terprise to South Central Los Angeles" as well as to poor ur­
~GIANT 
~ The Precisely Jlig/lf Choice! 
In the city... 
On the road... 
Or in the mountains... 
ban and rural communities across the country, he said. "We can move people from welfare to payrolls to businesses if we've got a system to do it." 
The Democratic presidential candidate released what he de­scribed as his community de­velopment plan, a more de­tailed version of part of the economic program he unveiled 

Giant® takes your cycling seriously. Giant bicycles are designed. engineered and crafted to be your precisely right choice. They're easy to ride. easy to enjoy and easy to afford... Let us help you choose the one that fits your cycling needs. 
ONE OF MICHIANA'S LARGEST BICYCLE DEALERS. 

LEIRIGHT•s 
CYCLING & FITNESS 2720 LINCOLNWAY WEST MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 Phone: 255-8988 (I I /2 blocks east of Ironwood.) 
r----------,r--------~-,
I Deal # 1 I I Deal # 2 I 1 FREE! 1 1 =~=~=~=~=~=~· I 
l'llll'llll'llll'llll'lllll·liiJ
1water bottle 1 1 ~=~=~-=~"'="'~"'="'~=· 1 1 with any $1o 1 1 I I purchase I I 20~ off I 1 1 1 any one tire & tube 1 
lone coupon per visit. Not valid I lone coupon per visit. Not valid I lwith other promotions. 1 lwith other promotions. 1 
LE.!P~~ .!..0f3!f.~·-__.J i!5'.!!:f!.!_?~~9~. ___ .J 

w 
E 
D E 
L I 
v 
E 
in June. It included: • A provision allowing people 
•Federal 
grants to create 100 to hold up to $10,000 in assets community banks to provide before losing certain welfare loans and technical assistance benefits, such as Aid to Families to small entrepreneurs. with Dependant Children, 

•Expansion 
of tax-deferred compared to the current $1,000 Individual Retirement Accounts limit. so money could be withdrawn •Stronger federal efforts to for business development, with get commercial banks to lend federal matching funds aimed money in poor areas. at helping in poor areas. •Up to 125 federal tax-re-


Bad checks, ethical lapses take toll on incumbents 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bad checks, ethical lapses and other questionable behavior are tak­ing their toll on congressional candidates in a primary season that already has set a record for bounced incumbents. 
Problem checks at the House bank played a significant role in the defeats Tuesday of Reps. Stephen Solarz, D-N.Y., and Chester Atkins, D-Mass. 
Their losses bring to 19 the number of fallen House incum­bents so far, one more than the record set in 1946. More de­feats are certain in the few re­mammg primaries, with Louisiana's Oct. 3 open primary featuring two incumbent-vs.­incumbent races. 
And even more lawmakers are expected to fall in Nov. 
"It's not a surprise," author Suzanne Garment said of the latest primary results. "Americans have always hated politicians in general and have been quite tolerant of their own representatives." 
"For the past 25 years, noth­ing has come out of Washington but scandal news... People are 
w 
E 
D E L I 
v 
E 

R Just Call For Free Delivery R 
Large 15'' Pepperoni 
Pizza 
FRESH! 
FAST! ONLY 
HOT! 

699 
FRESH! FAST! HOT! 
Call Now!· 
starting to view their own representatives as substan­dard." 
A total of 95 House and Sen­ate posts will have new faces come January. 
In addition to the defeated House incumbents, 65 members have decided to retire or seek other office, and two died this past week. Seven senators are stepping down, one lost in the primary and one is deceased. 
Nine-term lawmaker Solarz was weakened by his 743 overdrafts at the now-defunct House bank and a newly drawn district that is predominantly Hispanic. Nydia Velazquez, former secretary of the De­partment of Puerto Rican Community Affairs, stopped Solarz, 33 percent to 27 per­cent. 
The party's nod is tantamount to election in the largely Democratic district. 
Atkins, who was seeking his fifth term, penned 127 bad checks and had to contend with the anti-incumbent fervor and a redesigned district. 
duced "enterprise zones" to at­tract business to areas with high unemployment, a Reagan administration concept. 
"You can't have capitalism and free enterprise without capital," Clinton said. "We could revitalize South Central Los Angeles in a very short time" with the right business incentives, he said. 
Mom sues to stop T.V. ads 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. (AP) -A woman has filed a lawsuit to stop four Louisville, Ky.• television stations from broadcasting graphic anti-abortion ads sponsored by congressional candidate Michael Bailey. 
Kathryn Copeland ofJeffer­sonville said she is "just a mom. trying to protect her kids'' after she filed the lawsuit Monday in U.S. District Court in New Albany on behalf of her 8-year-old soq; Christopher, and 7-year­old daughter. Katie. 
Copeland is asking Judge s. Hug)l Dillin for an immediate injunction against the ads' airings. 
Bailey said his campaign ads are "no different from showing bodies from other atrocities." The lawsuit's claim that the spots are obscene will fail, he said, because they are not sexual in nature. 


Business 
page 6 Thursday, September 17, 1992 
Democrats criticize free trade pact 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate 
breakthrough." Democrats hammered the Bush "From our perspective, op­administration Wednesday for posing the NAFTA on envi­negotiating a trade treaty they ronmental grounds would be a contend is toothless in major environmental mistake," enforcing Mexican environ­he said. "No larger opportunity mental laws. has come along in my memory 
But Environmental Protection to improve the conditions of the Agency Administrator William border." Reilly said congressional rejec­Reilly praised Mexico's recent tion of the pact would be a crackdowns against polluters "major environmental mis­and commitment to financing take." environmental cleanup pro­
Several Democrats on the grams, praise echoed by Sen. Senate Finance Committee's Lloyd Bentsen, who chairs the
Lloyd Bentsen
international trade subcommit­Finance Committee. 
tee denounced the North dress the environmental short­"I've been encouraged by a American Free Trade Agree­comings of the NAFTA in a number of things I've seen ment's environmental protec­forthright manner, the admin­Mexico do," said Bentsen, a tions during a hearing. istration has essentially re­Texas Democrat. 
"The NAFTA is silent on what sorted to empty rhetoric," he I see as the most important said. Reilly sought to allay fears environmental issue -ensur­Sen. Tom Daschle expressed that American companies ing that all parties to the similar concerns. would move to Mexico in search agreement, including Mexico, "An agreement is nothing of weaker environmental 
enforce adequate environmen­more than a list of intentions standards and enforcement, tal standards," said the sub­unless it has the ability to be saying that environmental costs committee chairman, Sen. Max enforced," said Daschle, D-S.D. are a small percentage of most Baucus, D-Mont. "If there is not proper en­firms' overhead. 
Baucus has called on the ad­forcement, then really what do 
ministration to reopen treaty we have but some nice-sound­"The number of companies talks to strengthen environ­ing rhetoric that really makes a that because of this treaty ... mental and worker retraining mockery of the whole process?" would be tempted to move to standards. Reilly called the agreement a Mexico is relatively small," he 
"Rather than attempt to ad-"very important environmental said. 
Defense contractors face budget cuts 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -of the commission. AM General Corp. went looking The engines for the tilt-rotor for civilian markets to sell a Marine aircraft, which was in­military vehicle, and the state volved in a fatal crash earlier is encouraging other Indiana this year, are built by Allison defense contractors to copy Gas Turbine in Indianapolis. that example. In South Bend, AM General 
If the Pentagon budget is cut began actively seeking civilian by 25 percent, that could mean markets for the humvee, or a half-billion dollar loss for the Hummer, the all-purpose mili­estimated 900 Hoosier compa­tary vehicle originally designed nies that sell to the U.S. mili­for the Pentagon. tary. The company has built 140 
As a starting point. the state Hummers modified for civilian is surveying those companies use and costing more than to gauge the depth of antici­$40,000. In June, the state pated losses and find growth awarded AM General a markets in non-defense pro­$220,000 grant to help in the duction. changeover. 
The survey announced Tues­day will be conducted by the "AM General is a model for Indiana Military Base Use Co­other Indiana businesses," Gov. ordinating Commission. The Evan Bayh said during tour panel was created earlier this Monday of the company's year to ease the changeover of assembly plant in Mishawaka. local economies while the Pen­tagon shuts down much of its There's still plenty to worry Indiana operations. about, Lawrence says. 
"Every time (Defense) Secre­Magnavox in Fort Wayne re­tary (Dick) Cheney wants to kill cently laid off 117 employees the Osprey, we start to worry," at a plant producing sonar says Glenn Lawrence, director buoys. 
IMF predicts slow world economic growth over next two years 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The the 1.4 percent estimate of just economist, said he did not think growth by siphoning off scarce publics. International Monetary Fund five months ago. the monetary turmoil would capital and keeping interest The IMF continued to forecast said Wednesday that the world For 1993, the IMF projected prove to be longlasting and rates higher than they bleak times for the former So­economy, having suffered that world growth would re­therefore would not adversely otherwise would be. viet Union, predicting that out­through its worst year in nearly bound to 3.1 percent, one-half affect the economic outlook. "A determined new effort to put will plunge by 18.2 percent a decade, was poised to resume percentage point less than an But C. Fred Bergsten, head of reduce the federal budget this year after a 9 percent drop moderate growth in 1992 and April estimate that put growth the Institute for International deficit is urgently required as a in 1991. It said the economic 1993 although at lower rates next year at 3.6 percent. Economics, a Washington think­necessary condition for a more contraction will continue into than the agency had predicted. The agency said the over­tank, disagreed with this satisfactory economic perfor­1993 as well, with a drop of 6.5 
But the IMF cautioned that whelming majority of risks to assessment and said he be­mance," the IMF said. percent forecast. even its scaled-down forecast the forecast were negative. lieved the IMF's new forecast The IMF's economic outlook Declines of this magnitude could be jeopardized by any one Fleming Larsen, director of greatly overestimated the po­was released in advance of a would surpass the roughly 25 of several economic threats the IMF's forecasting project, tential for world growth next Saturday gathering of finance percent drop in output experi­ranging from currency market said world growth prospects year. officials of the world's seven enced by the United States and turmoil to failure of U.S. poli­were being harmed by a "crisis "They are living in a fantasy richest countries -the United many European countries in the cymakers to control the federal of confidence" among con­land with a forecast for world States, Japan, Germany, Britain, Great Depression of the 1930s. deficit. sumers and businesses that growth over 3 percent," he said. France, Canada and Italy -Wilfried Thalwitz, a World 
The IMF said the world econ­their elected leaders will fail to "We see much slower growth and the annual meetings next Bank vice president, told re­omy was showing signs of re­deal with such problems as the with the chance it won't even week of the 169-nation IMF and porters Wednesday that he be­vival this year after 1991, when U.S. budget deficit or European creep above 2 percent." its sister lending organization, lieved even with massive world output had slipped to a interest rates and currency The 159-nation international the World Bank. amounts of Western assistance, barely perceptible 0.1 percent, values. lending organization aimed very Those meetings are expected it would probably take until the the worst showing since the European officials struggled pointed criticism at the United to be preoccupied with ways to turn of the century for the global recession year of 1982. Wednesday to cope with a cur­States, saying that the global calm nervous financial markets, former communist countries to 
In its new "World Economic rency crisis that forced Britain outlook could be jeopardized by boost the prospects for world get back to the output levels Outlook," however, the IMF to sharply raise interest rates to continued failure to deal with growth and coordinate they had achieved before trimmed its growth forecast for defend its currency. Michael the U.S. budget deficit, which economic assistance to Russia launching their free-market this year to 1.1 percent from Mussa, the IMF's chief was blamed for slowing world and the other former Soviet re-reform programs. 
Trade deficit soars in second quarter 
WASHINGTON (AP} billion last year. shrank by $972 million to America's overall trade deficit Any deterioration in the $13.0 billion during the second soared to $17.8 billion. from trade gap could hurt President quarter. April through June,. the.largest Bush's re-election efforts. The surplus .on investments quarterly gap in tt'l~iy~Jars. Democrats complain h · .bas not deere.~sed.~o.,$1.4 billion. down the government said today. done epough for~ign from $4~5 billion in the first 
The Commerce Department markets to U.S;~exports. three months of the year. said the second-quarter deficit The current account is con­America's deficit on unilat­in the U.S. current account sidered the broadest measure eral transfers, which includes widened from a revised $5.9 of America's international U.S. foreign aid payments, rose billion in the first quarter. It competitiveness because it by $720 million to $7.7 billion, was the largest deficit since a tracks not only trade in mer­mostly due to a step-up in gov­$22.7 billion gap in the .fourth chandise but also trade in ser­ernment grants. quarter of1990. ·.w vices and investment flows Before the early 1980s, the 
The January~March bnJ,ud­between the United 
States and United States often enjoyed ance· had been the best show-other nations" ··· ·· s.urplusesJn the current ac­
, ing since early last. year.. when .'fhe Coni pOrt at~ count a$ '(J.S. earriings on over· allied contributions to Desert tributed the widening in the seas investments were enough Storm helped provide tWo rare overall trade gap to a sharp to offset perennial surpluses. That helped shrink rise in the merchandise trade merchandise trade deficits. the gap to $3.68 billion in deficit and sm~er surpluses in 1991. service trade and foreign in­But in the last decade, 
But many economists believe vestment income. Americans transferred billions the deficit could shoot u,p to The dise of dollars into the hands of $50 billion or more this yetit. deficit . foreigners to pay for imported 
········These economists say the to $24 . ~UJljOJ.tlt(UlJ; goods and in the process deficit likely will widen }}e· through· transformed the country from cause of shrinking expof! ~~es due the world~s largest creditor due to weak/iinreuuumles natipJ;i)nto the largest debtor overseas and the · · of .nation ... That means foreigners Persian Gulf now own more in U.S. assets bursements. than A:ulelieans own in foreign 
August retail sales suffer biggest decline in 18 months 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Retail by a revision for July. The sales tumbled 0.5 percent in government now reports that August, the poorest showing sales climbed by 1 percent, since March, as demand for double the 0.5 percent increase furniture, autos and other big­originally estimated. ticket items suffered their But the analysts said even biggest decline in 18 months, with this revision, the picture the government said today. for consumer spending remains 
The Commerce Department exceptionally bleak as said sales totaled a seasonally Americans, worried about job adjusted $159.73 billion last prospects, weak income growth month. and heavy debt burdens, are 
The 0.5 percent decline was keeping a tight lid on spending. worse than economists had Since consumer spending ac­been expecting. Many believed counts for two-thirds of total sales would edge down a tiny economic activity, the overall 
0.1 percent during the month, economy has little chance of reflecting weak auto sales. staging a significant pickup 
While auto sales did decline, until consumer spending re­so did every other category of covers. durable goods, long-lasting The 0.5 percent August sales items that include furniture, decline was the largest setback appliances and building sup­since a 1.2 percent March plies. The overall decline of 1.6 plunge. percent in durable goods was Auto sales fell 1.1 percent in the biggest drop in this category August, reversing a 0.6 percent since a 3. 7 percent fall-off in July gain. Sales at furniture and January 1991. home furnishing stores dropped 
Analysts said the poorer-than­by 2. 7 percent in August, expected overall performance wiping out a 2.6 percent July in August was offset somewhat gain. 
~---------­
----------------~-------------------------------------------------­
. ' 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 17, 1992 page 7 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .................•.... David Kinney Advertising Manager ..••••..Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ..••.•............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .....• Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ........• Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ••••••••••••••Patrick Barth Photo Editor .....•...•. Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .••••..•..•••.•..••..Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor · Controller .....•..•...•...•.••.••. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clinton's speech ironic at ND 
Dear Editor: 
I can't help but ask-did any­one else see the irony in the content and location of Gover­nor Clinton's speech last Fri­day? 
He cites the U.S. Catholic Bishop's letters on the economy "Economic Justice For All" and "Putting Children First" in order to advocate national poli­cies for parental leave, health care reform and the provision of government subsidized child care centers. 
Yet, the policies he hopes to enact for the national economy are not even applied on this most Catholic of campuses. Faculty and staff lack access to parental leave. 
No on-site child care center exists and according top a recent survey by the Graduate Student Union many married student families do not have health insurance for their spouses or children. 
Will it take the election of a Southern Baptist to the presi­dency of the United States to make the Catholic social policy effective on the Notre Dame campus? 
Reynold F. Nesiba Off-campus Sept. 12, 1992 
Reaction to candidate shows hypocrisy 
Dear Editor: 
Having witnessed the manner in which the University community warmly rolled out the proverbial "red carpet" for the visit of one Mr. Bill Clinton (who is rumored to be some sort of political candidate) this past Friday, I am reminded of a similar campaign visit to this campus by a Mr. George Bush in 1988, which was received by that same University commu­nity (or elements thereoO with a curiously dissimilar reaction. 
At that time, many faculty members, students, and College Democrats (whose objectivity could hardly be doubted, as they were all honorable men and women) vociferously protested Mr. Bush's visit, charging that a 'politically mo­tivated' campaign speech was improper fare for this campus. 
I will never forget the valiant efforts made by those objective, politically tolerant members of the faculty and student body, standing steadfastly by their principles, all in an attempt to prevent and protest Mr. Bush's campaign speech way back in 
DOONESBURY 
1988 (which, alas, so few her may recall.) 
Mr. Clinton's visit, however, has left me perplexed, wonder­ing where those principled lib­eral/left-wing members of our community were last week, ready like Minutemen to once again protest yet another politi­cally motivated campaign speech without regard to the candidate's ideology. 
Of course, I would never insinuate that Notre Dame's liberals use a hypo-critical dou­ble standard regarding political speeches (that are more com­patible with their wise ideol­ogy), since it is well-known that these individuals are all honor­able men and women. 
The very least they could have done for the occasion, to prove their principled objectivity with regard to all political speeches and demonstrate their lack of hospitality to politicians of every stripe, was to invite last year's valedictorian to denounce Bill Clinton as well immediately before his speech. 
That particular young lady felt that allowing George Bush to speak here amounted to a tacit endorsement of his policies. 
Now some people might infer that, since no denunciation of Mr. Clinton was forthcoming on the dais before his speech last week, Notre Dame's heroic liberals have in effect stated that a tacit endorsement of Clinton is OK, while a tacit en­dorsement of Bush is not. 
I must contest such an overly hasty conclusion, since our lib­erals made it clear in both 1988 and prior to last year's gradua­tion that they are opposed to candidate speeches in general on principle alone. 
I refuse to doubt their word, since Notre Dame's liberals once again proved last week (by failing to protest last week's campaign speech) that they are indeed honorable men and women, who "stick to their guns" with no hypocrisy and double standard whatsoever. 
Glenn Fogarty 
Notre Dame Law School 
Sept. 13, 1992 
Thursday's Verse 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Only in a Fifth Month Dream 
Mu ... Mu ... MU! 
Did you say God? Silence, please. You talk too much. Did you say no-God? You clang to ill-effect. 
Live moment is miniscule, so they say, yet within it a universe wholly other from that of moment newly dead 
I pick out earlobes from my artichoke rinds 
("My, what a colorful wind, today!") given up to undisciplined gales they are snagged by the hook of the silver sliver moon 
("Not now! That would be cheating. But how good to one day count ourselves among the red and yellow fallen leaves!") 
Shh! Hush, now, sinful darling! Your wrong is more broad than deep (what covers more ground than Hypocrite's shadow?), your penitence goes not unheard. 
Soft! Soft in the presence of this holy romance! Treetops make love to the empurpled sky, Crickets sing the primordial peace, stars tell a tale of 
Forgiveness 

By I not I 
(Paul Rowe) 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Send your unpublished poem to: 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q, ND, IN, 46556 
Clarification 
In a letter yesterday from the Saint Mary's Art Department, the third paragraph should have read, "Dr. Bruno Schlesinger .. .is not a Saint Mary's art professo.r." Schlesinger is a professor in Humanistic Studies at Saint Mary's. The Observer regrets the error. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~ 

Viewpoint
pageS Thursday, September 17, 1992 
LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
Drunkenness wastes lives Students in Clinton line 
an embarrassment to ND
Alcohol means different in the newspaper that a things to many people. Jon-Paul Hurt promising young life was But for far too many people, destroyed because some
Guest Columnist 
alcohol is the one and only mindless jerk drove home after means of having a good time on smashing his brain with a Friday or Saturday night. is, "It's so much fun!" It's fun? alcohol? 
This blatant misuse and Fun is getting so drunk that you Even my life was almost abuse of alcohol by Notre Dame puke your brains out in the taken when a drunk driver hit 
students is appalling. bathroom? (A lovely sight for me while I was driving home. Why must drinking be the everyone living in the section.) Luckily, I only had a broken left sole purpose of so many parties Waking up with a splitting femur, left hand, and left clavi­
around campus? hangover is fun? cle. 
People say that it isn't the I have no problem with con­Had I not been wearing my main reason for the get-to­trolled drinking in moderation. seat belt, I would not be typing gether, that it is only there in A glass of wine, a scotch-and­this letter right now. But I'm order to "loosen things up a water, or some other drink still angry because six weeks of bit." The alcohol, they say, re­among friends is fine. my life became a living Hell, leases inhibitions, and stimu­It is sickening to see people because of therapy and lates conversations. encouraging an already obliter­rehabilitation. The worst part 
If this is true, then why, at the ated person to drink more. I was that nothing happened to last party I attended, was every lose all respect for them. the guy who hit me. He walked single conversation about how Not only is getting drunk a • out of his car, failed every much alcohol the people had stupid way to waste an evening, alcohol test given to him, spent had to drink that night, or it can be downright dangerous. a night in jail, and that was about how much fun it is to get When someone is drunk, their that. It makes me sick to think drunk? inhibitions and sense of moral about it. 
If alcohol is not the center of judgment virtually disappear. The negative effects of alcohol the party, why is it that I've My uncle killed himself when outweigh any positive aspects heard it said so many times, he got drunk and decided that by a factor so great that it "Oh, the party ended early be­he could jump his car over a would be much better if alcohol cause we ran out of beer." cliff. He didn't live to discover didn't exist. 
What happened to this stimu­that he couldn't. But I realize that this would lating conversation that drink­Sexual inhibitions and morals be impossible, so I will com­ing is supposed to encourage? also desert a person who is promise and simply ask that Was it only a coincidence that drunk. people stop drinking to get the "conversation" began to die Alcohol kills! It kills brain drunk. down just as the beer supply cells, liver cells, friendships, ran out? marriages, and most impor­Jon-Paul Hurt is a sophomore 
I ask people this question and tantly, people. in the College of Arts and almost invariably the response How many times have I read Letters residing in Grace Hall. 

Speaker to address economic issues 
Dear Editor: depending on what issues they American Income Distribution deem of importance in today's and co-author of The Economic In Abraham lincoln's Second world. 
Future of American Families 
Annual Message to Congress on The entire series is entitled and a survey article on earnings Dec. 1, 1862, he wrote, "As our "Thinking Anew" and was de­inequality in Journal of case is new, so must we think veloped chiefly by Prof. Joan Economic Literature (Sept. 
anew and act anew." In Aldous and Prof. Lyn Spillman 1992). American society today this of Notre Dame's sociology de­Prof. Levy specializes in challenge is particularly evident partment. The first scheduled trends in incomes and stan­
dards of living. Our committee
in an election year as citizens speaker in the series will be face the deeply rooted problems Prof. Frank Levy. The title of invites the student body for of modern America virtually his speech is "Economy and the what promises to be a very in­
1992 Election" and will take teresting and thought-provok­
every night on the evening news, in the daily newspapers, place on Thursday, Sept. 17, ing speech and a chance to and in their own lives. 1992 at 7:30p.m. in the LaFor­meet the professor after his 
Throughout the 1992-1993 tune Ballroom (formerly known speech. school year, the Ideas and Is­as Theodore's). 
sues Committee of the Student Prof. Levy is currently the Dan Alesia Union Board hopes to bring in Rose professor of urban eco-Ideas and Issues lecturers who are compelling nomics in the Department of Commissioner people to reexamine the ways Urban Studies and Planning at Bryan Reardon they look at the world today. Massachusetts Institute of Assistant Commissioner Such speakers would cover a Technology. Bridget Conley 
wide variety of issues that affect He is the author of Dollars Assistant Commissioner the individual on different levels and Dreams: The Changing Sept. 13, 1992 
Manier extends an invitation for Rice to participate in 'campus conversation' 
Is the law school on a sepa­tip his hand, and all we really
Dear Editor: 
rate campus? know is that Jim Burtchaell wrote some sentences Rice
Prof. Charles Rice has re­peated his request for wide Presumably, Rice understands thinks wise. 
campus discussion of the pro­and opposes features of the If Rice could bring himself to posal to reverse the laicization widely published "mission take part in ongoing campus
of the University of Notre Dame statement" and "prenote" of the undertaken 25 years ago. Colloquy for the year 2000 and conversation, he might elicit thinks the addition of elected more response. He argues that nothing short faculty members to the Provost of complete control by the reli­Advisory Committee an ominous Edward Manier 
Department of Philosophy
gious community of the Holy sign. 
Sept. 13, 1992 
Cross can prevent the Univer­sity's secularization. But the crafty litigator doesn't 
Dear Editor: 
I was very interested in see­ing and hearing Gov. Clinton Friday. I got in line at 10:20 
a.m. behind perhaps 150 peo­ple, some of whom had come quite early. By 11:55 the line snaked back and forth in front of Stepan Center, and then all over the basketball courts, but I was right behind the first bend in the line. 
Then the doors were opened. I was so astonished to see the end of the line rushing the doors, and so convinced that Notre Dame students simply did not behave this way, that I tried to follow the line; I was naive. The people at the end of the line got in, including many who had just arrived. 
At 12:55 p.m. the doors were closed. I did not get in, nor did others who had come even earlier. We got to hear the speech over tiny speakers set 
'Bureaucratic octopus' engulfs sophomore class 
up outside. We were very near the front, however, so I retained a little hope I might see Clinton after the speech. 
I was once again mistaken. At 1:50 p.m., the doors opened and 2,100 people poured out-and stood in front of those of us who had waited for so long. I left in disgust, and I was not the only one. 
Stepan personnel who had watched the line all morning seemed to vanish when the doors opened, so they are partly to blame for not keeping order. However, this isn't kindergarten. College students should not need to be told to stay in line and wait their turn. Such selfish and childish be­havior should embarrass the University and the individuals responsible. 
Nicole Guenther Discenza Off-campus Sept. 13, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
As sophomores, we have an interest in the role of those elite few who rule in our class coun­
cil. Actually, this elite few is comprised of no less than sixty­three people. 
We understand the need for a large number of people to manage the limited affairs of our class. Nevertheless, we cannot fathom any need for twenty-three people to plan a social activity. 
Nor can we begin to comprehend why putting together a Class Mass takes the concerted effort of seven intel­ligent individuals. 
We must question the ability of an organization that requires three chiefs of staff to function efficiently. 
We also question a selection process that leads to the ap­pointment of the two room­mates of the president, and three of the roommates of the· vice-president to the class council. 
We can understand the doling out of appointments to close friends, but pork-barreling of this magnitude is entirely inap­propriate. 
We expect our sophomore class council to play an exten­sive role in planning activities, but the officers, by creating this bureaucratic octopus have re­strained their ability to function as an efficient organization. 
While we feel that all the members are dedicated· and competent, these members cannot perform their best working within such a large framework. 
Dave McCusker Andrew Deluca Cavanaugh Hall Sept. 14, 1992 


Tutoring program needs student volunteers 
more centers. We need a large number of tutors to serve the additional children. 
If you can commit two hours a week and an energetic spirit, please call 283-3322 for more information. We provide the transportation. 
Paul Chisholm Keenan Hall Andrew Dinan Zahm Hall Sept. 9, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program sponsors tutoring programs at twenty-two schools and community centers around the South Bend area. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students offer academic help, and often find themselves serving as valuable role models to those who they tutor. 
This year we have added five 

--~~~---~----­
Accent 
Thursday, September 17, 1992 page9 

Irish influence 
Irish band The Drovers will perform tonight at Club Shenanigan's 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR But according to all reports, Music Critic the Drovers' strength is in :·:3'·· ,.
>II#'. 
their live show. A Drovers set The Drovers (above) are performing their Irish influenced original music tonight at Club Shenanigan's. 
Irish-influenced music has runs for at least two solid Their second album release, World of Monsters (below), was released last spring on the group's own made big strides all over the hours, with the band drawing Tantrum Records. world in recent years. primarily from their own real-life Irishman who moved Bolstered by the international material. but also covering to Chicago in the early 1980s, 
phenomenon of U2, American standards such as the Rolling while bassist and vocalist audiences and record labels Stones' "You Can't Always Get Dave Callahan has a have latched on to many Irish What You Want" and old Irish grounding in good, old­acts. tunes. fashioned American garage 
The Chieftains. Pogues, and bands. But the two mesh Waterboys have all been The Drovers were first cleanly to give the Drovers an spreading the gospel of flute founded in 1988 by fiddle intriguing rhythm section. and fiddle to the masses, player Sean Cleland, who enjoying varying levels of remains the heart of the But that is just the international success. band. Since humble beginning of the Drovers' 
Tonight, Chicago's Drovers beginnings as last-minute eclectic sound. Mike will bring their own brand of filler, the group has had Kirkpatrick's guitar, Cleland's Irish-inspired rock to Club music featured in the movie fiddle, Kathleen Keane's Shenanigans, playing their Backdraft, and has accordion and flute, and 
first show in greater performed at the CMJ New Winston Damon's assorted Michiana since an early 1991 Music Seminar in New York horns and percussion appearance at Theodore's in as well as the Grand Ole surprise us with a whole lot LaFortune Student Center. Opry. of spice (for some reason, I 
The Drovers' second album expected potatoes and 
release, World of Monsters, The Drovers' ability to play cabbage). while Kirkpatrick, was released last spring on both hard-core traditional Keane and Damon sing of the the group's own Tantrum Irish music as well as more fear and excitement they Records, and upholds their rock-oriented songs gives the experience every day. reputation as one of the band the broad appeal which The Drovers play tonight at 
premier indie acts in the it apparently enjoys. Club Shenanigan's and have Midwest. Drummer Jackie Moran is a regular dates in Chicago. 
Headbangers' ball 
Tesla awakens audience at Joyce ACC 
By PAUL PEARSON a frenzy. membership card/To get interlude leading up to the exclusively at the top octave, Associate News Editor The proudest hair-whipper inside," followed by a from­song "What You Give." the bassist who played and was lead singer Jeff Keith, the-diaphragm "Uuh!!" "Love Song," Tesla's top bal­shook his head rhythmically Tesla isn't quite ready for who spent most of the show One of the main strengths of lad, seems to be designed so (nothing else) and the the obituary page just yet. doing the two things he does the show was the ongoing duel that Keith could sing it and drummer who spent the show 
The California-based hard best: between guitarists Frank Han­sound like an actual romantic tossing sticks like a halftime rock band proved that they Marching around the stage non and Tommy Skeoch. The singer instead of the usual his baton-twirler. can still rock like pros at their like a psychopathic stick two musicians (for musicians caterwauling heaviness. It's too bad they couldn't concert Wednesday at the figure, and they are) spent the night Tesla even broke a time­play as well as they looked. In Joyce ACC. Screaming like a banshee seeing who could belt out the honored concert tradition. general, you cannot trust a 
Tesla played most of the that just got bit in the rear loudest chords, play the After finishing "Love Song," band that measures itself by 
-
songs from its latest album, end. quickest notes and make the instead of hiding behind the how loud they can play and "Psychotic Supper." One of Keith seemed to get some instruments weep the saddest. amps and waiting for the sing. And they played as loud their new songs, "Song and sort of spiritual fulfillment This battle had no audience to work itself into a as they could, even on their Emotion," which Keith dedi­from his insane screams. In casualties. It only produced frenzy before the encore, ballad "Love of a Lifetime." cated to the late Def Leppard fact, after one such wail, he good rock n' roll. Keith simply asked the people At one point, believe it or guitarist Steve Clark, exclaimed, "That's one hell of All of the songs seemed to be "Are you satisfied? The way not, Firehouse's lead singer combined the best parts of a a head rush." the products of musical team­we see it1 you either want to chided the people sitting down slow, deliberate drum beat While Keith screamed, Tesla work between the guitarists, hear one more or you go." in the audience for and a loud, hard-as-it-gets went through an impressive bassist Brian Wheat and Nothing revolutionary, but symbolizing the "MTV-couch music. range of modes, from drummer Troy Luccketta. Ev­then again, nothing meriting potato" generation. This 
Metallica-esque heavy chord­ery musician seemed to know an obituary either. struck me as a bit like biting 
The band performed most of crunching (complete with when to be loud and when to Tesla's opening act, Fire­the hand that feeds you. the typical hard rock strobe lights) to a four-song drop back into a supportive house, displayed everything Gentlemen, would you be on a rituals-five-minute guitar acoustic set that featured their role. bad about MTV. They even nationwide tour without the screeches, drum rolls that 1990 remake of "Signs," in Skeoch's effort was quite im­look like the typical glam-rock, help of Music Television? seemed to go on forever and which Keith got the audience pressive, but Hannon clearly made-for-the-screen band: From the show you put on long hair that was whipped to to sing "And the sign won the battle on the strength The bare-chested singer, the Wednesday night, I sincerely 
says/You've got to have a of a 5-minute bluesy acoustic guitarist who played doubt it. 

.~ 
-----~--­
page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 10,1992 
Two of fab five ruled ineligible for payed appearances 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -faculty representative to the questions about the appearance The NCAA could restore the Three Michigan basketball NCAA. of three other players at players' eligibility, suspend Rose, Webber and Riley all players -including standouts The declaration was included in summer camps. The report asks them from some games, or levy played key roles in the Jalen Rose and Chris Webber -a report Michigan submitted to the NCAA to immediately other sanctions against the Wolverines' trip to the national 
have been declared ineligible the NCAA late last week. The restore the players' eligibility. basketball program. It also championship game last spring. until the NCAA decides whether report answers questions that could choose to conduct its own Rose, a point guard, led the they violated rules by being arose when the three players "This is a routine posture to investigation. team in scoring. Webber was paid for some appearances. were paid $300 each to appear take when reporting such named the Big Ten's Freshman Sophomores Rose and Webber at a charity basketball incidents," Bates said. "But we Janet Justus, the NCAA's of the Year after becoming the and senior Eric Riley were tournament in Holland last expect it to be dealt with in director of eligibility, said first freshman to lead the Bigdeclared ineligible for an month. short order. It should not Wednesday she expects a Ten in rebounding and steals. 
indefinite period of time, said The report, which Bates said become an issue as far as decision to be made in two to Riley was the Wolverines' topPercy Bates, the university's was routine, also addresses games are concerned." four weeks. frontcourt reserve. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m_ All classifieds must be prepaid. The
t Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
I• 
Michiana Figure Skating Club needs I need student and/or GA Purdue SELLING 4 PURDUE GA'S N.D. BAND DAD NOS GA FOR a skating instructor for Wednesday football tickets and Boston College HIGHEST OFFER BY 9/17. B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH 
i 
NOTICES 
evenings. Call Mary Myers at 287-GA football tickets; please call Dave CALL DANNY AT: Michigan State GAs for SALE X3874 4524 or Penni Williams at 277-at x4506. 273-2856 will sell on Wed evening For more information and 3699. to best offer I need 3 PU stud tix 
assistance regarding the MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB­NEED 3 STAN GA'5--WILL PAY Michael 283-1161 or GAs will PAY!! 
' 
I investigation of financing, business EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ Paul x2990 opportunities and work-at-home circulars!. ..Begin NOW!. ..FREE NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS. opportunities, THE OBSERVER packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box THERE'S ONE WAY NEED STANFORD FEM. STUD. 
~ urges its readers to contact the 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, TICKET. Need 2 Purdue GA'S. Call ASAP PERSONAL Better Business Bureau of PENN GA'S! JAY X1528 Bridgette 284-4457_ Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., NEED RIDE TO MICHIGAN STATE CALL ERIN 284-5128. OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-9/18 & ANY WEEKEND$ 284-$$$$$$ HELPII! 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-5053$ HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC I NEED 2 STANFORD GA's NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR 9121 or 800-439-5313. GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE Brendan X2070 STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL 
CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM COSIMO'S 277-1875. WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 (609) 769-0721. Selling Mich St tix_ Reasonable MSU (4) 50 yrd row 25 Call Bill 
I need a ride to Miami(OH.) offers accepted. 1-517-351-0911 ext 831 SMC & NO 1993 SUMMER TYPING University ANY weekend. NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC Call George @ 283-4564 PROGRAMS-London and Rome. 287-4082 GA. CALL X2805 Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame Travel in Ire., Scot., Eng., France, 
Will help pay for gas. STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET 1-415-991-3416 call collect Ger., Switz., & Italy. Courses in Need Math help? Experienced Call Brian x2081 PLEASE SELL ME 2 GA TIX FOR BOOK FOR SALE -ALL TICKETS Bus., Ed., Hist, Italian, Mus., tutor, all levels-Joe 2711532 PURDUE. AVAILABLE-CALL KATIE AT NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Nursing, and Soc_ Meeting Oct. 5, 
CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 284-5443-LEAVE MESSAGE, Morrissey Hall & Law School 6:30 PM Carroll Hall (SMC). Slides, USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 BEST OFFER Ill Alumnist. Please help. Call David at students from 1992, teachers, BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Need ride to Milwaukee/Area on AFTER 5 PM. 816-931-1267. pizza, etc_ Info Call Prof. Black 284­Pandora's Books 808 Howard 9/25. Will help pay gas/tolls. Please Need Stan. GA's 4460 or 272-3726. 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 call Lisa 284-5200. Bob 3398 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS!!! 
You want them. Badly. Hungarians only claim they do it TRAVEL FREEl SELL SPRING WANTED 2 BUY: 2 GA TIX FOR STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE I HAVE MSU TXTS FOR I have them. Two of them. better. Italians are the men. BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, ANY HOME GAME PLS CALL REASONABLE PRICE Let's talk. CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST MARIA (716)256-2923 ASAP! CALL283-1747 Call Delli 283-1693 MAUREEN TITLER­COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO CHRIS X1717 COME OUT OF THE CLOSET FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN I Need a ride to Cols. Oh. area on WILL TRADE 2 BYU or 2 BOSTON WITH YOUR HANDS UP!!! SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 Friday(18th). Will pay gas+lolls. FOR SALE: 4 MICHIGAN ST. TIX COLLEGE STUDENT TIX FOR 2 
John #1719 or 3758 I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs CALL ERIC OR MIKE @1156 STANFORD GA'S. CALL SEAN ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. '81 Mustang 61000 miles, New YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE @X1213 family can provide financial security, 
I 
GAs 3 MSU GAs excellent education and wonderful WANNA TRADE? Make Offer PLEASE HELP I NEED G.A.'S FOR future for your baby. Please let us Call Bret (me) at 1248. I love you. 4246 STANFORD CALL 1573 help you in this difficult time. 
Clutch,Tape0eckcall289-6680 FOR RENT 
ILOST & FOUND I BED 'N BREAKFASTforND-SMC Confidential and legaL Medical 
• families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HELP!! I NEED 2 GA's FOR expenses paid. Collect anytime. Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet. bdrm. w/single. 1 0 mins. from X3625 HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE THE PENN ST GAMEl! (818) 246-1763 Possibly in NOH or Loftus. Huge campus in attractive neighborhood. AT 618-439-3338. PLEASE CALL AT 277-5980 sentimental value. If found please For football & special weekends. Need 2 tickets-GAs-for Oct. 3 Mickey C, or shall i say Me C, or call271-7288. REWARD Call 234-2626. Stanford game. Call Angela 283-HELPIII Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. ** Football Tix 4 Sale. 272-5842 ** whatever your name is (PIMA) just 
4058 7 BC game_ Please call x3799. wanted to say that if the sun refused 
LOST: 9/15 Circular NO 150 need to sublet turtle Thanks. PLEASE HELP!!! to shine ... (you know the rest!) keyring w/3 keys w/#326 on them & creek studio aprt. NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State I need two student tickets to the some $. Jim x3320 call Damien 283-1870 game Nov 14. BIG $ Call Sam HELP! Purdue game for my sisters who are 
Collect (0)908-687-1330 (N)201-NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S coming to visit mel MARGE A camera was found outside of Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. 376-9427 CALL JOE X1560 Call Katie at 2988. THANKS!! Stepan prior to the Clinton studio-$220 Bee, wonderful Clinton speech. If you lost I bedroom-$255 Alumni needs I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and CLUE #3: crimson feathers a camera, call and describe it and 2bedroom-$280 2 PURDUE GA's Penn State. 283-4607. $ WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ -Ryan it's yours. 283-2016 Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 Please Help. NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S 
Call Maria x1347 CALL SHEILA AT x4251 OR CALL 283-HELL needs Stanford GAs! BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY (614) 459-0074 COLLECT P.S. We're two horny girts!!! WANTED 219-291-7153 $$$$ I really need 4 Stanford$$$$ BETWEEN 7pm & 9pm_ 
or BYU GA's. If you can help me MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK UNIQUE, PART-TIME, INCOME 2 room efficiency, private out call X1643 and ask for Jose. HEY, ARE YOU A BIG FAN OF OPPORTUNITY. Seeking a utilities paid, male preferred FOR SALE BOB 287-9118 REJECTION MAN? DO YOU creative, competitive marketing $7 a day. Call 288-0955 REALLY HAVE A CHOICE? person to represent a new, low cost I need 2 Stanford GA's. NO 10 REQUIRED STANFORD TICKETS BECOME A MEMBER OF THE product to people searching for a Andrew-1881 NO 10 REQUIRED I NEED STANFORD TICKETS II! NOW-FORMING REJECTION MAN new career. For interview call 234-FAN CLUB! CALL THE MOST 
FOR SALE 
1171, Bam-Spm. I HAVE 4 MICHIGAN STATE GA's CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. REJECTED MAN ON CAMPUS, RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, -Vince x1251 CALL ROCK@ 239-5303 FOR 
BONNIEDOON TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. MORE INFO. HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, I have 2 Stanford GA~II WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL 1111111111!1111!11111111111!11111111111!!!!!1!!1!!!!!1!11 ABSOLUTELY EVERYONE SERVERS, COOKS AND TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE Gabrielle at 283-3023 COLLECT 614-354-5716 I TURNED DOWN. FOUNTAIN SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY STANFORD*STANFORD* 
Apply in person to: FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call 283-STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE HELP MEl Attention! Earn $2500! Students, 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 272-5959 4519. CALL X1547 TONY OR MARK I NEED STANFORD GA'S! Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka IF YOU HAVE ANY Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED CALL At Your School! SpringBreak 1-800­Needed: 2 Women's Lacrosse stix. 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 Need Penn St. Tix NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME SABOL AT 283-2950 678-6386. Good condition. Reasonable prices. 86 vw.......................... $ 50 Tony x1786 GAMES 277-1659 *STANFORD*STANFORD* Call Polly or Daniells 284-5504. 87 MERCEDES .......... $100 111!1!11!111!11111111111111111!1!1!!!!!!!!1!1111!11111111 
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Need Purdue Tix, will trade SYR Ill SPRING BREAK '93 -SELL TRIPS, 
Choose from thousands starting date! · EARN CASH & GO FREEl!! We need a kid lover to care for our $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Help out the NO Family Student Travel Services is now 2 1/2 year old. Approx. 15 hrs per Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright --scot# 4013 Tickets for sale! hiring campus representatives. Ski week. Very flexible. We can work it #IN11KJC. We need tickets to any and or all 2 STANFORD STUDENT TIX packages also available. CALL around your class schedule. 5 HOME GAMES (GAs) Need GA's for all home games Kerry x3619 1-800-648-4849. minutes east of U.P. Mal!. Must Sofa for sale. Please call258-0298 Kyle 287-9118 Brian 273-8368 
--
have own transportation. Call277-$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Physician and Attorney wish to 2468. Honda Civic 84 hatchback. Auto, Need GA's for all home games provide loving home for your child 75K miles. $2500. Full main!. recs. Kim 284-4401 I need Purdue GAs filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call 234-9386, 4-9 wkdys, 12-9 I need 2 Stanford GA's I need Stanford GAs Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Guaranteed INCOME with Sun. Call Chris X2727 $$$$$$$NEED TIX$$$$$$$$ I need Boston Collge GAs Collect (708) 655-3124. HUGE PROFIT potential. Penn State GA's or student tix. I need Brigham Young GAs Need extra money? Call x2998 I need Penn State GAs Are you motivated? TICKETS I NEED 5 PURDUE GA'S and I'm Please Please Please Please The UTILE ANGELS can't be Want to have some fun? rich enough to buy and sell you! NEED 1 Penn State GA -x3958. Help me out stopped! WE will be back, Send letter of interest to: I NEED NO FOOTBALL Call Joe-x1854 Bob 234-9433 stronger than ever!! Maingate Enterprises TICKETS.272-6306 Need Stanford GA's P0915 NO Parents need 2 Stanford G.A's Call Mike x1528 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ To the babe (Michelle) who called Notre Dame, IN 46556 WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX Will Pay Big $$ Meg x2985 for a meatlover's in Dillon on or CALL: FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­I need BYU tixlll Call Joel at 289-I have BYU stud. Thursday night. Call me back. I do 
287-6730 (Leave message) MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN HAVE: 1 BYU st; NEED: 1 BYU GAl 5563 Bob 3398 deliver. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843-ERIC or JASON-273-294111 6947_ I NEED 2 PURDUE GA's I can't believe I have to compete 
-
Need ride to CHICAGO suburbs ( or close) on Fri. 9/18 
Will help pay gas, etc. Call nm x1138 
I need GA's and/or Student tix for all or any game. Please call Aaron@ 271-2908. 
player needs many PU GAs and 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 
Need Purdue and Stanford GA's. Money no object. Ron x2001 
HAVE 2 GA's FOR STANFORD CALL X1234 
NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 272-6194. 
HELP! MY PARENTS NEED TWO GA'S FOR THE STANFORD GAME. THEY WILL PAY $$$$$$ PLEASE CALL AL @273-2624 with the tax dog 
Need ride to Cols. Oh. area on Fri. (18). Will Pay gas and tolls. John #1719 or 3758 


. ----------~~-------~~-~~ 
Thursday, September 17,1992 The Observer page 11 
Rugby 
continued from page 16 
football is constant action. It's continuous like soccer." 
One of the similarities be­tween rugby and football is in scoring. Rugby's version of a touchdown,,called a try, is worth five points, and a suc­cessful conversion after a try is good for two points. Three points are awarded for a suc­cessful penalty kick. 
Each year CARFU hosts a tournament to decide the rep­resentatives to the Midwestern Tournament. The winner of the Midwest qualifies to advance to the national tournament. 
In the last few years, the Notre Dame team has enjoyed a large measure of success in the CARFU the past two seasons, winning both tournaments by a composite score of 114-13, and finishing third in the Midwestern Tournament last year. 
There are 15 players on the field for each team at any one time, divided into three groups. Eight guys play forward, which places a reliance on big, strong guys, while the quicker guys are backs, of whom there are six. The final spot is manned by the serum-half, who is similar to a midfielder in soccer. 
Reasons for getting involved with the sport vary, and most of the players actually began playing while at Notre Dame. 
"About 95% of the players 
never played in high school," said McNeive. "I was sick of normal sports, and I wanted to play something in college." 
Lyman's reasons were slightly different. 
"I like the camraderie, and going out and knocking people around. Plus, it's a better way to keep in shape than interhall football." 
That camraderie is important for the players, who say they enjoy the social aspect of hanging out with the other players, not only on their team, but with the other teams. 
The Irish competed against the University of Michigan this past weekend, a non-CARFU team. 
The bigger, more expe­rienced Wolverines beat Notre Dame 27-0, but the Irish hope to rebound at Bowling Green this weekend and home against Michigan State next weekend. 
On the weekend of October 3, the Irish will travel to Chicago for the CARFU Tournament. 
Once the fall season is over, the team takes a short break, and then begins preparing for its spring season. 
T~ams that qualify for Nationals this fall have the spring to prepare for those championships. 
So the next nice fall weekend the rugby team is home, wan­der on over and see how the sport that spawned football is played. And take in a game that is enjoyable in its own right, not just for its more famous cousin. 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON lAW AND GOVERNMENT PRESENTS 
REV. ROBERT BARRY, O.P. THE NEWMAN FOUNDATION UNIVERSITY OF IlliNOIS 
ON "THE PROBLEMS AND PARADOXES OF ASSISTED SUICIDE" FRIDAyI SEPTEMBER 18 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
Secondary Education Majors Meeting 
MANDATORY r all current and new stu­
dents of the department 
Tuesday, September 22 6:00-7:30 p.m. SMC Science Bldg. Room 105 Saint Mary's 
Bulls, Heat help hurricane victims 
MIAMI (AP) -The Chicago Bulls will play the Miami Heat in an exhibition game on Oct. 19 to raise money for the rebuilding of hurricane­devastated South Florida. 
Proceeds from the benefit game, which the teams hope will raise $500,000, will go to the coalition We Will Rebuild, Heat managing partner Lewis Schaffel said Wednesday. 
"Having this game is the best and most immediate way we know to help those who were affected by this tragic storm," Schaffel said. "This is some­thing we feel good about.... 
This is something we believe we must do." 
Schaffel said the idea to help victims of Hurricane Andrew stemmed from an offer of help from the Bulls' Michael Jordan. Schaffel said Jordan had ap­proached Heat partner Billy Cunningham at a North Carolina golf outing days after the storm struck and asked, "What can I do?" 
The league and the NBA Players Association had to ap­prove the game at the Miami Arena since the Bulls already had the maximum eight exhibi­tion games allowed, Schaffel said. 
"The Heat, the Bulls and the players' associ;~.tion were very much aware that by simply playing one extra game, they could do a world of good," NBA commissioner David Stern said in a statement. 
Chicago Bulls chairman Jerry Reinsdorf said contributing to the hurricane relief effort is his team's way of giving something back to fans. 
About 700 floor seats will be set aside for school children from the areas hit hardest by the hurricane. 
White finally comes into own for Oilers 
HOUSTON (AP) -With a 6­foot-1, 222-pound frame held up by size 13-EEE feet, running back Lorenzo White looks out of place in a lineup of Houston Oilers receivers. 
Looks can be deceiving. 
"He's tremendous in the open field," quarterback Warren Moon said. "You wouldn't think he could move the way he does, but he has quick feet and can break the long one." 
White did just that in Sunday's 20-10 victory over Indianapolis, catching four passes for 106 yards, one a screen pass that he turned into a 69-yard touchdown play. 
"He not only catches the ball, he makes people miss after the catch," Moon said. "I said be­fore the season I wanted to get him the ball, and that's what we've been doing." 
After four years of struggling for status with the Oilers, White finally feels he's becoming an all-around running back. 
In two games, White has rushed 30 times for 169 yards and he's caught seven passes for 130 yards. His 69-yard touchdown is his longest catch and he had a 44-yard run against Pittsburgh. 
Catching passes isn't a sud­den phenomenon for White. He caught 39 in 1990 and 27 last year in 13 games. 
"People always said, 'I didn't know you could catch the ball,~ White said. "That's because I never had to catch the ball be­fore. But I can do it." 
He likes his new role. 
"You have to be a complete running back," White said. "That's the title that I like, be­ing able to do it all. But, cri­tiquing myself, it was just an OK game. I blew a lot of as­signments or I would have caught the ball more." 
White started the season campaigning for more running time. Little did he realize that his receiving would help his running. 
"As far as running, I felt good," White said. "Once we started screening and catching those balls, their defense couldn't use those linebackers to come down and blitz like they did. 
"It helped me get open in the field, and we've got linemen and receivers that can run down the field with you." 
Coach Jack Pardee hopes to use White's full range of talents Sunday against the Kansas City Chiefs (2-0) in the Astrodome. 
"This is more of a middle screen instead of a side screen," Pardee said. "Lorenzo is getting away from the spy that's looking for him. That's the big difference. 
"It also helps slow down the rush. That's what you need a screen for, to slow it down. They were doing some stuff that was hard to pick out." 

Need we say more? 
The place to be for the ''Class of '93 '' 
If you don't like crowds please don't come. 
must be 21 


,. 
r 
page 12 
McDonald surprise starter 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Rookie inside linebacker Ricardo McDonald, brother of Notre Dame linebacker -Devon McDonald, is to start for the Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday at Green Bay because a knee injury may have cost veteran Ray Bentley the rest of his sea­son. 
McDonald, a fourth-round draft choice from the University of Pittsburgh, took over in the first quarter of Sunday's 24-21 victory over the Los Angeles Raiders after Bentley suffered torn ligaments in his left knee defending against a running play. 
McDonald contributed eight tackles, tying for the team high, and one tipped pass as the Bengals limited the Raiders to 87 yards rushing. The Bengals are now unbeaten in two games. 
Coach Dave Shula said the loss of Bentley. signed as a free agent after six years with Buffalo, will hurt. Bentley had called signals for the defense, a job that now falls to linebacker Kevin Walker. But McDonald is regarded as a promising player. 
"We feel that Rico has a real bright future as a linebacker in this league for many years to come," Shula said. "His education will now o full force. as far as on-the-field, on-the-job training." 
On Tuesday, the Bengals re­placed Bentley on the roster by signing former New York Giants linebacker Gary Reasons. The 6-foot-4, 235­pound Reasons played eight seasons with the Giants, including the 1986 and 1990 Super Bowl champions. He lost his starting job in the Giants' preseason this year to Steve DeOssie, then strained a knee ligament and was released on an injury settlement. That meant the Giants could not sign him for four weeks, and he was free to sign with any other team. 
Reasons said he is glad to be with the Bengals, who have overhauled their defense under Shula and defensive coordinator Ron Lynn. 
"I think they thought my knee was worse than it was," Reasons said of the Giants. ''I'm healthy. I'm ready to play. 
"This is a good opportunity," he said. "It's a team with a new defense that's doing well. I'm excited." 
Also with the Bengals is cornerback Mitchell Price, who missed the preseason and the season's first two games be­cause of a contract holdout. He was paid $90,000 last year as a punt returner and backup cornerback. 
ONE·DOZEN 
llnnnmmmmnnnnnu~mumnrunnrmrnrm~nmnmmmrnuv
lllllffllllllllllriiHflllllllll"""'""-fiMIIIJIII11MI-If-fJ·It 
STUPENDOUS 
The Observer Thursday, September 17,1992 
Notre Dame tennis hosts invite 

S~-.JC:ES 
$3.95 ID $.50 

If you can't decide on just one of our meat, seafood or cheese sauces. choose any two of a dozen delectable choices. Being indecisive has never been so rewarding. Entrees include soup or salad and freshly baked San Francisco sourdough bread, and lots of run . 
•
SpaghettiWarehouse 
Grear Italian food. All-American fun. 501 N. Niles Ave. • The Works Hotel; 232-4414 
Special to the Observer 
The sixth annual Notre Dameffom Fallon Invitational Tennis Tournament will be held from Friday, Sept. 18 through Sunday, Sept. 20 at the University of Notre Dame. 
The 16-team tournament will scoring for the event. 
Kentucky, which finished ranked number five in the country last season, Rice, Indiana, and Ball State, which were all ranked in the top 25 most of last season, are among the teams that join the Irish in this event. 
Other teams represented at the event will be: Army, Cincinnati, Colorado, Michigan, Michigan State, Montana, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Southern Illinois-Carbondale and West Virginia .• 
be the fall opener for head coach Bobby Bayliss and his It's time to showFighting Irish squad, as the team advanced to the NCAA fi­nals last season and posted a the whole world final record of 23-4. The event is open to the public and free of Ali! charge all weekend. The tournament will take place at the Courtney Outdoor Tennis Center beginning at 9 Happy Belated a.m. each day and inclement weather or darkness will force 21st!play to the Eck Tennis Pavilion on the Notre Dame campus and the South Bend Raquet Club. Competition will take place in four flights of singles and two Love,flights of doubles. There will also be consolation play for Your Roomies first-round losers if weather permits. There will be no team  
ND/SMC SENIORS Now Accepting Applications for Senior Month Committee Applications available outside Senior Class Office, 2nd floor LaFortune and Haggar Front Desk, SMC Deadline: September 23, 1992 Questions? Call Chris 283-3486 or Sean 283-1654  

MACRI'S DELl IN EAST LANSING Notre Dame-Michigan State Pre Game-Post Game /JJ!'Food and Beverage Specials ,,..~ Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m. to Midnight -----~  

Indiana Toll Road east to 1-69 North for 80 miles. Take 1-96 East to exit 1110, Okemos Road NORTH (left). Follow Okemos Road Approx. 3 miles to Grand River Ave. (stop light). Rlght on Grand River Ave. to Macri's just after the next light on your right, immediately next to Frank's Nursery. Buses leaving every 10 minutes for the game from across the street, and returning after. Park at Macri's. FREE Notre Dame appliqued sweatshirt ($50 value) to the holder(s) of the correct score. Details at the Lansing deli. 
TWO MILES EAST OF CAMPUS Next Door to Frank's Nursery, Across from Meridian Mall 

Thursday,September 17, 1992 The Observer page 

You Are Invited to Attend 
''Strate ic.Focus'' 

Monday, September 21 6:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Reception  Meet P&G managers from:  
immediately following.  • Finance  
Food and beverage  • Sales  
will be served.  • Management Systems  
Dress is casual.  • Product Development  
Students from  • Product Supply  
all majors welcome.  • Brand Management  

-

m 

, 
..--------------­
~ ­
The Obser\ter 
page 14 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Lanza 

ND/SMC women's lacrosse is still looking for members. Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy at 283-4998. 
The campus 2-person golf scramble will take place on September 27. The tournament is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 
Women's Off-Campus football will meet at Cartier Field at 7:15 
p.m. on Thursday for an 8:00 p.m. scrimmage. Questions? Call Theresa or Mariane at 273-2388. 
Ohio State QB Herbstreit responds to boobirds 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -The Bowling Green. He sat out two boos from Ohio State fans are other series in the first half, but 
continued from page 16 

pressure and speed at the college level. Lanza agreed, adding that college soccer the game is much more team oriented than in high school soccer. But Berticelli didn't hold back when discussing Lanza's talent, calling him "a potential college All-American." 
Lanza no longer worries about making the team. He will probably take the spring semester off to play with the Under-Twenty National Team at a March tournament in Australia. When asked to predict this season, Lanza sports the smile of someone 
getting to quarterback Kirk Herbstreit. That's why he is happy the Buckeyes will be on the road Saturday, playing No. 8 Syracuse. "It's unfortunate you're in your own stadium and you're getting booed," Herbstreit said this week. "I don't know if they're booing me or if they're booing the offense or if they're booing coach (John) Cooper. "I'm actually looking forward to getting on the road and getting away from our crowd." Ohio State, No. 21 in the rankings, has won both of its games, both before crowds in excess of 89,000 at Ohio Sta­dium. Despite being favored by 17 points, the Buckeyes survived a 20-19 scare against Louisville in the opener. The outcome was not sealed until the Cardinals, 2-9 a year ago, threw an incomplete pass on a two-point conversion with 33 seconds left. Then, last Saturday, Ohio State struggled before beating in­state rival Bowling Green 17-6. 
For the second game in a row, the Buckeyes were outgained in total offense. Herbstreit suffeped a sprained ankle on the first series against returned to help the Buckeyes overcome a 6-0 second-quarter deficit. Herbstreit, who was on crutches Monday and used a cane Tuesday, expects to play Saturday against Syracuse, which beat Ohio State 24-17 in the Hall of Fame Bowl on New Year's Day. 


4:00P.M. REGINA HALL CHAPEL 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
who  knows  something you  
don't, and replies, "We may  
The Observer/ David Hungeling  surprise some people when we  
FreshmanBill Lanza has made an impressive impact in only two games  play in the tournament."  

Stop Smoking. 
American Heart ata Association ., 

Tournament 
1st Place -Player's Cue 200 & 3r2 Piace ­Tracks Gift Certificates Sept. 21 & 22 Gorch Game Room $5 entry fee Sign up deadline: Sept. 20 at 1:00 p.m. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY-239-7811 
PQ-s'\/7 Day Delivery 

~ Roses Flowers
tthBalloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
""YOUR FUU. SERVICE F\.ORIST'" 
Clocktower Square (219)277--1291 51400 31 North Order 24 hrs South Bend, IN 4663 7 a day 
-
Mention this ad and receive lOo/o off 
Not good for Valentine's Day 
Alumni Senior Club presents 
Grad Night 
This Friday 
featuring the graduate student band 
''FROM WEST OF HERE'' 
must be 21 years old 
9~2 




Today 
Thursday, September 17, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1\-\15 IS W\-11\T t 
ALW~~S 
-

11\E'{ TI-\I~K 11\E O..MER!l­
I'S I-0\SI>A'SS\CNf>..lt. 
MK\-11Nt. T\-\~T R£COROS 0\llL'{ 1=1\C.\S, ~UT R'EA\L'l, 
toR txAI<\PLE, IVE. CLEAREC OFF TH\'5 COR~t.R ~ !>\'{ S£.D. TAK£ ~ PIC\\.1~ OF It\£ ~ER£, B\JT CRC\> OOT AI.L \\IE MESS 

BILL WATIERSON 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Elevating to a bishopric
1 Gasket type 33 Make proud6 Ore site 
34 Covers a wall 10 Cautionary before papering conjunction 
35 Negative 14 Rice dish connective 15 German river 36 Deeds' needs: Abbr.
16 Olive genus 37 Slate-trimming17 Monad 
tools 18 Hefty book 38 Albacore 
19 A memorable 39 Honshu bay Khayyam 
40 Like some roofs 20 He wouldn't be 41 Ice pinnacle without it 
42 Ophidians 23 Geometric 
44 Equestriancurvature school 
center 
45 Old chest for 27 Pheasant brood valuables 
28 Kiel and Erie 46 Established 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
23 Plant's establishment in a new habitat 
24 Carrying bag 47 N.F. L. offenses 51 Moundsman's 
mistake 52 Rum portions 53 Commodious 58 Zone 59 Sib of Ares 60 Attire for a pilot 61 Motorists' 
oldies 62 Hindu stableman 63 A memorable Kefauver 
DOWN 
1 W.W. II agcy. 2 Tire site 3 Seine sight 4 Pinch 5 Mexican rubber 
plant 6 Hades flower 7 Repute 8 Turned into an 
evil spirit 9 Hermits 10 Less 
constraining 11 Sailor's saint 12 Baseball feature 13 Biblical weed 21 Dol. parts 
25 Ancient war engine 26 Old Baltic coins 29 Commingles 30 Accustomed 
31 Immature years 
32 Favored 
34 Proceeding by leaps 
37 Some compounds of element #30 
'92 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
49 Butterine 50 Suffix with Ham 54 Pub.-company 
pileup 55 Olympic 
heaver's throw 56 Commit perjury 57 Caen 
connections 
Laura runs to greet her pa in this scene from "Big Nose on the Prairie." 
LECTURES 
Thursday 
4:15p.m. "Latin America in the New World Order." Joseph Tulchin, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington D.C. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
7:30 p.m. "The Economy and the 1992 Election." Frank Levy of M.I.T., a specialist in income and standard of living trends. LaFortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's). Spon­sored by SUB Ideas and Issues Committee. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Baked Pollack Apple Cheddar Quiche Pasta Bar 
Saint Mary's 
Italian Bar Wings & Things Marinated Flank Steak 
38 Part of T.V.A. 40 School period 
41 Kielbasa, e.g. 43 Arctic jackets 44 Tue. preceder 46 Ditch 
47 Ski lift 
48 Taxi exaction 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, September 17,1992 
Freshman Lanza contributes to rise of ND soccer
Jim 
Vogl 
BY BRIAN KUBICKI made the team consisting of the best on the team as "no different than anyone Sports Writer young players in the country. He has also else's," which is to contribute wherever represented the country on the under-20 he can. But Berticelli also admits that his Chalk Talk Bill Lanza was always close to making national team that traveled to France, quickness and dribbling ability can the Youth National Soccer Team, but he Italy, and Canada. "unbalance another team's defenses and !==::::::;:=:::====::::=========: was always twelve days too old. "I was lucky to have good coaching create great scoring opportunities. He
Expansion teams long On history, · 
sh0 rt on WinS 
The Florida Marlins and Colorado Rockies will cast their fortunes exactly two months from today in the Major League expansion draft on November 17. 
The last expansion draft occurred in 1977. Fifteen years later, the two American League expansion teams are headed in opposite directions. 
The Toronto Blue Jays cast their seed on. fallow ground, opting to build for the future-"Rome was not built in a day." The Blue Jays invested in young, inexpensive talent and cultivated it with the best scouts and coaches. Players like Tony Fernandez, Fred McGriff and Dave Stieb are but a few of bumper crops from Toronto's system. 
Toronto has hovered atop the standings for the past six years. With a winner, they invested in the ultra­modern Sky Dome, which draws the league's most fans partly because of its spectacle-the retractable dome, the huge scoreboard, bar and hotel. But even after the thrill wears off, Sky Dome will continue to draw crowds because the Blue Jays built a strong team foundation. 
The Seattle Mariners, by contrast, cast their seed on fallow ground, opting to sign expensive free agents and washed out veterans. Familiar names like Richie Zisk and Gaylord Perry couldn't cut the mustard. 
Last season, the M's finally avoided a losing season, but this season returned to familiar territory-dead last. To rescue themselves from financial dis­aster, the owners may evacuate the Kingdome. But any city wanting a disastrous major league franchise like the Mariners would be better off getting something else, say, locusts. 
This year's expansion draft puts the weight of the world on the shoulders of Marlins' general manager Dave Dom­browski and Rockies GM Bob Gebhard, their scouts and advisors. The owners, the cities of Miami and Denver, the fans, and baseball as an institution will hinge on the decisions of these men. 
Let's review the complex procedure in this year's draft: 
•It 
lasts three rounds, with each expansion team picking a total of 36 players. 

•The 
existing 26 teams protect 15 players. 

•Players 
with no-trade clauses in their contract, and players with at least ten years major league experience in­cluding five with their current team, can refuse to be drafted. 

•Minor 
league players under age 22 cannot be selected. 

•
In each of the first two rounds, each of the 26 teams lose one player. 

•After 
the first round, each team protects four additional players. 


While existing Major League teams face the possibility of losing two or three minor-impact players, expansion teams confront their ultimate fate. 
Will the Rockies and Marlins fill their rosters with marginal major league cast-offs or with minor leaguers with a potential for greatness? The answer is blowing in the wind. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
11Mfm•s tennis kioks off 
•Jordan, Bulls help victims seepage 11 
. ... 

from when I started playing soccer (at makes us more dangerous as a team in
"It bothered me that I was better than a lot of the guys on the team, but I couldn't the age of five) all the way through high the attacking third of the field." school," credited Lanza, "I think my Lanza is ready to accept whatever role
be on it because I was just a little bit 
older," admitted the freshman from coaches gave me the edge that let me Berticelli and the team ask him to play. Manassas, Virginia. make those teams." "I just want to fit into the team and do 
As his many honors, including first Lanza now hopes that he can use his well," he said, "We are a young team, all team Parade All-American and the talent and experience to further propel a about the same age. Because of that I Gatorade Player of the Year for the state growing program to NCAA prominence. feel really comfortable playing with 
of Virginia, can attest, Lanza no longer Along with academics, he admitted that everybody." worries about making the youth national the growth potential of the team helped Berticelli said Lanza will need a little team. him decide to come to Notre Dame. time to mature and learn to deal with the 
In junior high, the quick forward finally Coach Mike Berticelli sees Lanza's role see LANZA! page 14 
Rugby real treat for players and fans 
BY RICH KURZ a very violent sport, like Associate Sports Editor football without the pads. After all, it's not every game that has 
Every weekend in the fall and participants commonly tape spring, a group of athletes run their ears to their head so they the ball, make tackles and kick don't get ripped off, but that the ball through the uprights isn't all there is to the game. for points. "It's not as dangerous as it 
But these guys play on looks," Lyman said. "It looks Stepan Field, not in Notre like a crazy game, but there Dame Stadium, and if any of are a lot of rules and it's pretty them get scholarships, it's for organized." academics. And they're not The Notre Dame team is playing football, they're playing listed as a club sport, the high­rugby, a sport from which foot­est level rugby has achieved on ball American-style was a collegiate level, and has been derived. in existence since 1960. The 
Although rugby is not widely Irish compete in the Chicago popular in the United States, it Area Rugby Football Union enjoys a certain amount of sup­(CARFU), which consists of 10 port overseas. The British Isles teams, including colleges like 
host a number of professional Northwestern, Northern Illinois rugby leagues, and each year and the University of Chicago. New Zealand, England, Wales, Although the game resembles France and Ireland do combat football at first glance, there's a in the Five Nations Tourna­lot more to it than being a ment. relative to football. 
Irish games averages about "In rugby you need more 
50 fans, but senior rugby conditioning (than in football)," player Jeff Lyman thinks they said Dan McNeive, a senior all enjoy it. member of the rugby team who 
"They think it's fun to watch played football in high school. and exciting. They enjoy "It's a more fluid game, but just watching a new sport, and as hard-hitting. The biggest most of the fans keep coming difference between rugby and back." 
see RUGBY//page 11 The Observer/Jake Peters 
Rugby's perception is that of 
Rugby club members gear up for another exciting fall season. 
Dalsaso and Winget perfect one-two punch for SMC soccer 
By JENNY GUSTAFSON Both are talented and creative around the ball," said Belles Sports Writer coach Tom VanMeter. "They also have great attitudes. They 
In sports, it takes both talent and a positive attitude to suc­lead by example through their hard work." ceed. The Saint Mary's soccer team has found both qualities in The two are beginning their third year together, and if the senior forward Stacy Winget and junior forward Megan Dal­last two years are any indication of what the Belles can expect, saso. it should be a successful season. 
"They feed off of one another and encourage quality play. "We don't have to talk anymore. She knows I'll be there and I know she'll be there," Dalsaso. "This is good because if you talk too much on offense, the defenders can take advantage of that." 
"I know where she is at all times. I am confident in giving her the ball," Winget agreed. 
Last year, Stacey scored one less goal and had one less assist than Megan. Both, however, are in the top three of the all-time Saint Mary's scoring list. According to coach VanMeter they are "the best 1-2 scoring combination I've had at Saint Mary's." 
According to Dalsaso, the equality of talent helps to push them. "You always have something to pace yourself with. Stacey is that for me. It never becomes anything personal though." 
Both players realize the importance of each member of the team. "As captain (along with senior Kristen Crowley and Dalsaso), I want to push each player to accel so that the team can do its best," Winget said. 
Dalsaso added,"I would like to see more players involved in the scoring, that way all feel more a part of the action." 
The Belles will be turning to the duo as they work toward a bid for nationals. Last year they were ranked ninteenth in the nation, but failed to get a bid after their final game was can­celled due to snow. 
This year the tournament has been expanded to twenty spots, with two hundred teams competing. 
The Belles only have fourteen games this year, which is fewer than most schools, so there is more pressure to win each and every one. 
In order to do this, the team must stay focused on goals. "We need to be more intense and take things more seriously," 
The Observer/ Jake Peters 
stated Dalsaso, "Goals need to be set each day and then we
•ichigan players ineligible ·· Junior forward Megan Dalsaso, shown here against Notre Dame, 
must work to achieve them and get better day by day."
see page10 and senior Stacy Winget are Saint Marys' captains and top scorers. 
~------------------~~~ 








