
VOL. XXIV NO. 96 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Camera happy 
Left to right, Pangborn junior Bob Reilly takes a picture with Gov. Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, father of Sarin junior Matthew, and stepfather William Hannon during the Saturday JPW dinner at the JACC. 
---1!11--­
SaintMarys College 
NOTRE DAME•INDJANA 
MONDAY, February 17, 1992 

Israeli attacks kill 11 in Lebanon 
SIDON, Lebanon (AP) ­Israeli helicopters on Sunday Israeli military blasted a convoy carrying the leader of the pro-Iranian group raids in Lebanon Hezbollah, killing him and his wife and son. Shiite Muslim leaders vowed revenge and called for a holy war against Israel. 
The dramatic strike, which could damage the Middle East peace process, capped a day of Israeli air attacks on south Lebanon that left eight other people dead and 29 wounded. 
The raids came less than 48 hours after an attack on an army camp inside Israel, in which three Israeli soldiers were hacked to death. 

Hezbollah said its leader, Sheik Abbas Musawi, 39, his wife, Siham, and their 5-year­old son, Hussein, the youngest of the couple's six children, AP were "martyred" in what it called "a cowardly air attack." their jihad (holy war) against The terse statement issued at Israel."• the group's headquarters in Hezbollah, or Party of God, Beirut gave no other details. was considered the umbrella 
In addition to Musawi and his group for the Shiite Muslim family, four other people were holders of Western hostages in killed, and 18 were wounded, Lebanon. It opposes the Middle police in Lebanon said. They East peace talks, the next said eight of the wounded were round of which are to begin in critical condition. Feb. 24 in Washington. 
Sheik Mohammed Fadlallah, In Washington, President spiritual mentor of the Shiite Bush declined comment on the militants, called the attack a effect the attack might have on "barbaric crime" and said in a peace talks. He said he did not statement: "I call upon all re­sistance fighters to escalate see ISRAELI page 4 
Speaker urges black students to continue achieving 
By MARA DIVIS Survival of People of Color in for you to stay here." not do as well. He said that co­and re-read." News Writer the 21st Century" in Nieuwland Kunjufu cited a Jack of operative learning is one of the In addition, studying more Science Hall. knowledge of how to study as a more recent breakthroughs in will lead to academic achieve­Kunjufu said that one primary key reason for blacks' lack of educational success. ment, he said. 
With increased self-esteem issue for blacks today is success. He said that blacks Also, Kunjufu said that stu­"That which you do best will and self-awareness will come achievement. He said that once first need to gain the study dents need to learn the differ­be that which you do most," he increased opportunities and students complete the initial skills and discipline necessary ence between studying and do­said. achievement for black challenge of getting to college, for college work. ing homework. He said students Kunjufu also spoke of keyAmericans, according to a visit­the next challenge is staying He explained that in re-evalu­in general don't go beyond the problems which affect black ing speaker who lectured at there. ating their study habits, stu­material specifically assigned. communities today, namelyNotre Dame Saturday. "You're the best we have," dents need to learn to work to­"See if you can close the book crime and drugs.
Jawanza Kunjufu, author and Kunjufu addressed the black gether. He said that black stu­after studying and write about As well as being the culpriteducational consultant from students there. "But it was hard dents tend not to study in what you read," he said. "If youChicago, Ill., spoke on "The for you to get here, and it's hard groups, and, because of this, do can't, then you have to go back see BLACKS I page 4 
Professor: World Order must be unified 
By BRENDAN QUINN 
News Writer 
The new "world order," so often proclaimed by world leaders, should be a world of discovery and unity, not one of imposition of beliefs, said a Notre Dame professor in a lec­ture Friday. 
"We should think of new world orders along the lines of discovery and not of imposition. We should think of ourselves as discovering things in our world instead of imposing our beliefs on the world," said John Robinson, director and associate faculty fellow at the Tomas J. White Center for Law and Government, in a Friday Forum concerning "The Real World Order" at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Robinson argued that the world has progressed past the era in which states were viewed as inviolable. 


John Robinson 
"We must reconceptualize the world and get away from the state as the unit of analysis," Robinson said. "For economic and ecological reasons, we need a unitary vision of the world." 
The world must realize that human rights are fundamental and essential to the success of any new world order. In any new world order, the leaders must ensure that each human being has the means to live a decent way of life, Robinson stated. 
"In any new world order, the flow of information from those in power to those affected by its exercise should be maximal," Robinson said. "Protest and dissent need maximal pro­tection." 
In order for this new world order to come into existence, the powerful states must aid in democracy building and work to make smaller economies market responsive, Robinson argued. 
Robinson concluded the fo­rum by reiterating the credo' of his new world order: "Think globally, act locally." 
This forum is part of the Friday Forum series run by the Center for Social Concerns honoring the Sesquicentennial Year. The series will run through the semester. 


Iceberg debates near the quarter finals 
By TONY POPANZ 
News Writer 
With the abundance of issues concerning politics, morality and human rights, sprouts an even greater number of view­points. Notre Dame's Iceberg Debates give students the op­portunity to express a few of these viewpoints in the most eloquent, informed, and, most importantly, persuasive style possible. 
Ana Garcia, chairperson of the Icebergs, which are in their fifth year, and freshman undergraduate student, was instrumental in finding and or­ganizing the approximately 50 judges for the debates. 
"These judges consist of fac­ulty and law students," Garcia said. "It is important to add that although faculty support was low, law graduate students were eager to participate." Each round is covered by one judge, and each judge can only work one round, she added. 

The Icebergs involve 20 dif­ferent dorms represented by 23 teams of four members. Two teams compete head to head. Each debate involves four people, consisting of two representatives from each team. 
"There are many who show passion in debating competi­tion. They possess an easerness to express themselves and their opinions," Garcia said. 
The debates begin with three preliminary rounds, in which the opponents volley such is­sues as whether the University administration has submitted to the demands of SUFR, and 
see ICEBERGS/ page 4 

------------------------------~---­
fDR!CAIT: 
Mostly cloudy today with a 40 percent chance of showers in the afternoon. High in the middle 40s and low around 40. TEMPERATURES: 

weekend will rema1n• 
In the words of JPW 
chairperson Katy Hart, 
"WOW." 
OK, so now it's back to 
the grindstone for all of 
the juniors who took 
academic vacations this 
weekend to celebrate 
JPW. Rich Szabo 
Most of our parents Sports Copy 
have journeyed back Editor 
home or will be doing so'-------------­
shortly, leaving the memories of the fortieth 

Junior Parents Weekend in our hearts and our 
minds. Exceptionally well-organized and well­
run, every event exuded class, and those who 
worked countless hours in preparation should 
be commended. 
As we look back over the events of the past 
few days, the joys we shared are easily 
recognizable. When the Class of 1993 con­
verged on the ACC Friday night to kick off the 
weekend, It marked the first time since 
Orientation Weekend that the majority of the 
class bas joined together as one. 
Unlike that weekend, full of its apprehensions and nervous excitement, this was a celebration of growth, a chance to show our parents how we have matured, how we live and work here at Notre Dame. It was an opportunity to meet friends and faculty, to share our experiences. For the parents, It must have been a proud moment to see the fruits of twenty or so years of wise and loving upbringing brought forth in a plentiful harvest. 
I must confess that, as the weekend ap­proached, I didn't know what to expect from myself, my parents, friends, and their families. What I found was a beautiful example of the kinship and comradery that symbolize the Notre Dame family. If nothing else, for the parents who are not alumni, this was an adoption of sorts, an initiation into the spirit found at this University. 
JPW provides a chance for students to strengthen the tremendous bonds they share with their parents. It is a celebration of the love, spoken or unspoken and always expressed in unique ways, that we have for our parents. 
Listening to the thought-provoking words of the eloquent speakers who addressed us, ii. was easy to see how blessed we really are. We have the love and support of our parents, our peers, and everyone associated with Notre Dame. This special feeling provides us with the strength, as Mr. Holtz commented upon, to meet our challenges head on and see them through. 
As we return to our studies, this weekend seems such a refreshing break from the ev­eryday occurrences of our lives. We probably ate out and got to shop a little, but those are mere side effects of the real reasons we gathered here: to show our parents we love them and provide them with confidence in our futures. 
I am sure that my fellow classmates, along with this year's senior class, understand what I am talking about. To the sophomores and freshmen, you will experience the event that you may have looked upon disdainfully up to now soon enough. You will celebrate Mass together, share a meal with your friends, and see from where they get those traits. Most of all, you may learn something about yourselves. It Is an experience to remember forever. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Today's Staff 
Production Business Cheryl Moser Colleen Gannon Jeanne Blasi Andy Runkle Jay Colucci Rich Riley News VIewpoint Pete Loftus Jeanne Blasi Julie Barrett Rich Riley 
Sports Graphics 
Jen Marten Beth Duane 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday llvough Friday exoepl during exam and vacatlon periods. The Obeervar is a member of the Associated Press. An reproduction rightl ant~­

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Pressure 
H L 


::.. HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
( ":::":==:::-:::::~--------.:...._:_:....__:..::._......:..:..:..::..:..:........:....:..:...:.:=.::..:___.:::=::..:.......J 
Via Assoclaled Pmss 
,:;.;:;:·.··:·:·:·:·.···:·: 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Indian builder turns ascetic 
•NEW DELHI, India -A wealthy building con­tractor plucked out the hair on his head, discarded his clothes and gave up his money to become a homeless ascetic Sunday. Fulfilling a 2,500-year-old tradition of the Jain religion, Sulekh Chand Jain vowed to live a contemplative life, eat no more food each day than can fit in his palm, and leave his wife and five children. Jain, 60, abandoned his worldly goods before 10,000 witnesses at the climax of a two-day ceremony that be­gan with a ride in a horse-drawn chariot, the news agency said. Wearing a turban and fine clothes, Jain was preceded in Saturday's procession by elephants, camels and a marching band. Henceforth, he Is to use no means of transport other than his bare feet. He may not stay more than a few days in one place, to avoid gathering possessions or forming attachments. Jain bequeathed his wealth to his family. Others who un­derwent similar religious awakenings gave their assets to charity or threw their money and jewels in the street. 
Bungee daredevils jump in the nude 
•NANAIMO, British Columbia-A throng turned out to watch the bouncing bodies of bungee jumpers in 
OF INTEREST 
•Meeting 
for ND/SMC students interested in sum­mer programs in London and Rome will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall, SMC. For more information call Professor Black at 284-4460 or 272­3726. 

•The 
Holy Cross Associates Program will be holding an informational meeting for all students interested in applying to the 1992-93 HCA Domestic Program tonight at 7 p.m. in the coffeehouse at the Center for Social Concerns. Applications for the 1992­93 HCA Program are due March 20, 1992. 

•A 
van drivers course will be offered for all those who have not previously attended and are planning to request use of the Center for Social Concerns's vans. The course will be held at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Feb. 18 at the Center for Social Concerns. This is a mandatory meeting for anyone planning to drive the vans. 



City 
Atlanta Bangkok Boston Brisbane Caracas Chicago Eugene Flagstaff Helena Hong Kong Istanbul Juneau Knoxville London Los Angeles Nairobi New York North Pla«e 
Paris 
Manila 
South Bend 
Tallahassee Washington, D.C. Yuma H 
65 95 55 80 
81 36 
59 
34 45 
59 53 33 55 
45 61 81 
53 
53 
46 91 36 71 56 
61 
L 
50 75 40 66 
61 32 
43 
23 28 
57 43 30 42 39 
47 
54 
45 
29 36 72 32 36 
45 36 

the buff. A company called the Bungy Zone offered free jumps over a creek Saturday to anyone willing to leave their clothes behind. The jumpers included 106 men and 19 women. The company charged nearly 1,000 people $2 each to watch the jumps from a bridge near Nanaimo on Vancouver Island, about 35 miles west of Vancouver. Proceeds went to Canada's Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. The Bungy Zone's video cameras were rolling, so jumpers can relive the memorable moment. 
·NATIONAL 

Study finds Americans working more 
•wASHINGTON 
--Americans are working more and playing less, according to a study that found an in­creasing number of people stressed out by the demands of job and family. Their study of work and leisure habits found that the average American worker puts in about 140 more hours on the job every year than he did two decades ago and is less willing to take paid days off. Figuring in the rise in work hours, commuting time and the decline in days off, the economists said Americans are spending 158 hours more each year on work-or an extra month. 

•Notre 
Dame Accounting Association has the opportunity to attend an interviewing/internship seminar on Friday, Feb. 21 at 4 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Free pizza and pop will be served. If you plan to attend, please RSVP by Wednesday, Feb. 19 at 283-4254. A "Big 6" representative will speak and answer questions. 

•Multicultural 
Executive Council applications deadline has been extended to Feb. 20 by 4:30 p.m. Applications are available and due at the Student Activities Office. 

•voung 
women interested in the religious life can join a discernment group to pray and discuss vocations. For more information, call Sister Marilyn Zuglsh or Sister Patricia Riley at the Sisters of the Holy Cross Membership Office at 284-4466 between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
On February 16: 

e In 1804: Lt. Stephen Decatur led a successful raid Into Tripoli Harbor to burn the U.S. Navy frigate "Philadelphia," which had fallen into the hands of pirates. 
e In 1862: During the Civil War, about 14,000 Confederate soldiers surrendered at Fort Donelson, Tenn. General Ulysses Grant's victory earned him the nickname, "Unconditional Surrender Grant." 
e In 1945: During World War II, more than 2,000 American troops dropped onto the island of Corregidor In the Philippines. 
--~~-------,------~-------------­
Monday, February 17, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Black and DeCrane named to trustee board 
Special to The Observer 
Cathleen Black, president and chief executive officer of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, and Alfred DeCrane, chairman of the board of Texaco, Inc., were elected to the University of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees at the board's February meeting. 
Formerly the publisher of USA Today, Black became president and CEO of the 1,400­member ANPA last June. The association represents the in­terests of most of the daily newspapers in the United States and Canada. 
Black, a 1966 graduate of Trinity College in Washington, D.C., was appointed president of USA Today in 1983 and pub­lisher a year later. She also served as executive vice presi­dent of marketing for Gannett Co., Inc., the newspaper's par­ent company. 
A native of Chicago, Black began her career on the adver­tising sales staffs of Holiday, Travel & Leisure and New York magazines. She went on to be­come advertising manager and associate publisher of Ms. magazine, then returned to New York magazine as associ­ate publisher and publisher, the first woman to be the publisher of a weekly consumer 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Music for the Mass 
Junior Katie Boyd plays her cello for the mass of juniors and their parents during the JPW liturgy last Saturday. 
Club Column 
FBIRUARY 17, 1882 
lrrhe Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate dubs to check their mailboxes on the second Roor of LaFortune. 
2) The Last Day to access dub funds is April 1 0,1992. 
3) Attention All Clubs: Club registration packets for the 1992-93 academic year are available in 206 LaFortune on Feb. 17, 18, 19. Clubs must register with the CCC in order to be recognized by the University each year. Registration packets are due Mar. 4. No fate packets will be accepted. 
4) The Black Cultural Arts Council holds office hours on : Mondays and Wednesdays, 2:15-4:30, Tuesdays and Thursdays 2-4, Fridays, varied afternoon hours. The office is located at 217 LaFortune, the telephone number is 239-8684. 
5) The Management Club is planning to elect its new officers on Wed., Feb. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in room 27 Hayes-Healy. All members must attend. Call Trey at 283-1 060 with any questions. 
6) CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) will hold an organizational meeting on Thurs., Feb. 20 at 6:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. Topics for discussion include "The Week," training for new presenters, and election of new officers. All are welcome. For more info., please call Missy at 283-2926. 
7) The Notre Dame Bahai Club will hold a discussion on the Bahai Faith at 
7:30 p.m., Wed., Feb. 19 in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. Anyone 
interested is welcome to attend. Any dub wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
magazine. 
She serves on the board of di­rectors of The Coca-Cola Co., the board of regents of Trinity College and the board of gover­nors of the United Way. Her husband, attorney Thomas Harvey, is a native of South Bend and earned his bachelor's and law degrees from Notre Dame in 1963 and '66. 
DeCrane, a 1953 Notre Dame graduate, joined Texaco as an attorney soon after earning a law degree in 1959 from Georgetown University. He rose through the ranks at Texaco, serving as assistant to the vice chairman of the board, assis­tant to the chairman of the board and general manager and vice president of the Producing Department/Eastern Hemisphere. 
In 1976 DeCrane became se­nior vice president and general counsel for Texaco Inc. and a year later was elected to the board of directors. He was named executive vice president and joined the board's executive committee in 1978 and five years later became president of the company. In October 1986, he was elected board chairman. 
Last June, DeCrane became chairman of Notre Dame's Edward Frederick Sorin Society, an organization comprised of alumni and other benefactors who contribute $1,000 or more annually in unrestricted gifts. 

He also serves as a director for CIGNA Corp., a trustee of the Committee for Economic Development and, before his 
election  to  the  board  of  
trustees,  a  member  of the  
advisory  council  for  Notre  

Dame's College of Arts and Letters. 
The Notre Dame board, now with 52 members, is chaired by Donal Keough, president and chief operating otncer of Coca­Cola. Andrew McKenna, presi­dent and chief executive officer of the Schwarz Paper Co. of Morton Grove, Ill., will assume the chair in June. The board was formed in 1967 when lay governance of the University was instituted. 
Jurors find Dahmer sane, QLiilty 
MILWAUKEE {AP) -In the end, jurors who decided Jeffrey Dahmer was sane when he killed and dismembered 15 young men and boys cast aside the opinions of medical experts and listened to one person: the serial killer himself. 
Dahmer told police he killed "for my own warped, selfish desires for self-gratification," and the jury concurred. 
His confession, as recited by two police detectives, came through more clearly during his three-week sanity trial than de­scriptions like "paraphiliac disorder not otherwise speci­fied," some jurors said. 
"The professional words were confusing," juror Karl Stahle said after the verdicts were read Saturday. 
"{But) his whole conduct showed he was a con artist. ... He had just one thing on his mind -to satisfy his ego and to satisfy himself," Stahle said. 
The jury's decision that Dahmer was not insane means he faces mandatory life sen­tences. A hearing was set for Monday, when relatives of his victims planned to speak in court. 
Dahmer didn't take the stand during 12 days of testimony. His lawyer, Gerald Boyle, made good on a promise to have Dahmer speak through his lengthy confession. 
Dahmer told police he se­duced victims, drugged and strangled them, then had sex with the corpses. He later muti­lated bodies, saved skulls and ate a heart, bicep and thigh. 
Wisconsin law required the jury to determine whether the former chocolate factory worker had a mental disease or defect when he killed. If he did, jurors had to decide whether he knew right from wrong or couldn't control himself. 
"We never got past the first question," said Russell Fenstermaker, one of two jurors who dissented and said Dahmer was mentally ill. The unusual trial required that 10 of the jurors agree. 
"We all agreed there was a problem," Fenstermaker said. "Whether we interpreted it as a disorder or a disease is what separated us." 
Throughout the testimony, it seemed the factor that would determine whether Dahmer would be sent to prison or to a mental institution was his mea­sure of control, or, legally speaking, his ability to "conform his conduct to the requirements of the law." 
Boyle and District Attorney E. Michael McCann assured jurors they would have to wrestle with the issue of control. 
The lawyers relied largely on testimony from seven psychia­trists and psychologists, five of whom agreed either willingly or under cross-examination that Dahmer suffered a mental dis­ease. Most commonly, the men­tal health professionals classi­fied the disease as necrophilia, a sexual attraction to corpses. 

McCann argued three times outside the presence of the jury that necrophilia is not legally considered a mental illness, but a personality disorder. Circuit Judge Laurence Gram rejected the argument each time, leaving McCann with a backup assault -that regardless of whether Dahmer suffered a mental disease, ltle could have chosen not to kill. 
"We had never heard of paraphilia or necrophilia, let alone trying to spell it," said juror Elba Duggins, who voted with the majority that Dahmer had not suffered mental dis­ease. 
"When you look at the ex­perts, they can't agree on it.... If they had seven doctors up there agreeing, it may have been different," she said. 
Fenstermaker said Dahmer would have been found sane even if the jury said he was mentally ill. 
"He could have conformed his conduct to the law," he said. "It would not have changed the outcome." 
Calif. snow storms leave skiers missing 
LOS ANGELES {AP) Searchers combed snowy mountains for lost skiers Sunday after a storm system that dumped heavy snow in highlands and saturated coastal regions moved eastward. 
The last storm in a weeklong wave that moved through the state caused a few more show­ers Sunday before moving on. Flooding, mudslides and high winds during the week caused at least $23 million in damage, Gov. Pete Wilson's otnce said. 
Since the storms began Feb. 9, four people have died in traf­fic crashes, two others drowned and a man and a pregnant woman were killed in a mudslide. 
About 60 people Sunday searched for two skiers swept away Tuesday in an avalanche on Mount Baldy in the San Gabriel Mountains east of Los Angeles. Searchers hoped Charles Pryor, 33, and Tim Pines, 31, had survived because of their experience, despite 5 feet of snow last week. 
"If there's any chance of sur­vival or having an extra reser­voir of strength to draw upon, these two guys would have it," said John McCallum, commis-sioner of the Mount Baldy Fire Department. 


In Washoe CoUlnty, Nev., au­thorities searched for a California cross-country skier, Michael Kreachdaum, reported missing Saturday after he failed to return from an outing that began Thursday. 
Another storm brewing in the Pacific Ocean was still 1,500 miles away and wasn't expected ashore until Tuesday, the National Weather Service said. It was expected to bring rain mainly to northern and central parts of the state. 
Correc1:ion 
A story in Friday's Observer misspelled the names of two candidates for Saint Mary's College student body officers. The correct names are April Ehret, running for vice president for academic af­fairs, and Martha Marzolf, running for vice president of student activities. 
Recycle 
RE~cycle 
Recycle Recycle 

--~---~-----------~-­
page 4 The Observer Monday, February 17, 1992 
Man arrested for killing rampage 
IRVINGTON, Ala. (AP) ­Authorities on Sunday arrested a suspect who police say went on a shooting rampage in a ru­ral community, killing a m&n who let him move in with him two weeks ago and three mem­bers of a neighbor family. 
The capture in Mississippi of Jason "Jay" Williams, 24, ended a nearly 36-hour nationwide search. 
Williams apparently won't fight extradition and deputies were traveling to Mississippi to bring him back to Alabama, where he'll be charged with four counts of capital murder, said Mobile County Sheriff's Department spokesman Gardner Wilcox. 
He was arrested without inci­dent at a truck stop in McNeil, Miss., about a two-hour drive from Mobile, said Mississippi Highway Patrol spokesman Dan Tackett. 
He had called the Mobile sheriff's office on a pay phone to say he would surrender, au­thorities said. 
"He came out of the phone 
Icebergs 
continued from page 1 
whether parietals should be abolished. In each of the three preliminaries, the speaker who distinguishes him or herself receives a gift certificate from Macri's Deli. 
booth with his hands on top of his head and gave himself up," Tackett said. 
Williams, 24, earlier had been seen driving a van that be­longed to one of the victims. Police said he was armed and dangerous. 
Police said he apparently quarreled with Gerald and Claire Paravicini, a couple he'd been lived with for about two weeks in Irvington, seven miles southwest of Mobile. 
Paravicini was found shot to death in the road outside his home early Saturday, and his wife had been badly beaten with the .22-caliber rifle used in the slaying, Wilcox said. 
Mrs. Paravicini's 16-year-old son, Jeffrey Carr, was shot through the mouth but sur­vived, Wilcox said. 
The gunman then ran down the road to another home, where he apparently shot and killed residents Fred Barber, 50, his wife, Linda, 46, and their 23-year-old son, Bryan, Wilcox said. Another son, Brad, was shot in the hand. 
Through process of elimina­tion during the preliminary rounds, eight teams are chosen to progress to the quarter fi­nals. The quarter finals will take place February 18, and will address the validity of the death penalty. 
The locations of the quarter­finals are the following: 
•Grace 
A at Flanner A; 

•Off-campus 
at Lyons; 


Blacks 
continued from page 1 
for low academic achievement, lack of self-confidence is also to blame for much of the drug use and violent crime which plague the United States today, Kunjufu said. 
"This country doesn't have a drug problem, we have a self­esteem problem," he said. "You don't use drugs when you feel good about yourself." 
He said that drug marketing accounts for much of the money-making within America's larger cities today. He said a way to remedy this is to start educating America's 
Williams fled in the Barbers' van, Wilcox said. 
Williams apparently had been out drinking Friday night, and witnesses told investigators there was a quarrel immedi­ately before the shootings. 
"Gerald took him in after he was thrown out of where he was living," said Gerald Evans, Paravicini's next-door neighbor. "That was Gerald's only fault, he had a good heart." 
Jeffrey Carr and Brad Barber were both in stable condition Sunday at Mobile hospitals. Mrs. Paravicini was treated at a hospital and released. 
Evans said Mrs. Paravicini ran to his trailer and began pounding on the door. He said she was covered in blood and m~mbling, "Jay shot ... Jay shot 
Evans said he grabbed a shotgun and a pistol and ran to the road where Paravicini lay dying. He said Williams, stand­ing in the trailer doorway, raised the rifle and pointed it at him, and he pointed his shotgun at Williams. 
•St. 
Ed's at Sorin; and 

•Morrissey 
A at Alumni. 


During the quarterfinals, the contestant teams are thinned to the four who will compete on February 25 in the semi-finals, which will take place both in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium and in the Montgomery Theater. 
The following week, on March 3, the finals will pit the top two 
youth at an early age. "The key is in giving high ex­pectations," he said. 
Kunjufu said that if a sense of self-worth and confidence is instilled in children at a young age, they will be more likely to be motivated to achieve later in life. 
He said that a changing of values and teaching students to 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Thanks be to God 
Juniors Laura Heimann and William Vans sing the responsorial psalms during the JPW Mass on Saturday. 
teams in the library auditorium. The winning team will receive a $500.00 contribution to their dorm and the travelling trophy. The second-place team will receive a $250.00 contribution to their dorm. 
"Through the course of com­petition, communication ability, ability to work with others, ap­pealing to audiences and learn­ing how to think the way others do are some of the skills the participants develop," con­cluded Garcia. 
The Iceberg committee is still accepting suggestions for pos­sible questions to pose for the semi-final and final rounds. Please send your suggestions to student government on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune. 
value each other and turn to each other will lessen the amount of violent and disre­spectful crime and make in­creased achievement a reality. 
"When our youth turn to each other, they don't turn on each other." he said. 
"We used to value coopera­tion. Now we value competi­tion," he said. "We used to value 'we.' Now we value '1.' We need to change this." 
Saturday's lecture was spon­sored by the Black Cultural Arts Council, the Office of Minority Affairs, the League of United Latin American Citizens and the Hispanic American Organization. 
Israel 
continued from page 1 
have detailed information on the raid. 
In Jerusalem, the Israeli mili­tary acknowledged it had car­ried out the convoy attack, but suggested it had not specifically targeted Musawi. In a state­ment, it said it had "turned out" the Hezbollah leader was in the convoy, which was carrying militia leaders from a meeting. 
But Defense Minister Moshe Arens told Israel television the attack was in fact "designed to harm Hezbollah." 
It was "a message to all the terrorist organizations: that if any of them opens an account with us, we will settle that ac­count," Arens said. 
In its statement, the army blamed Hezbollah for 52 at­tacks on the Israeli-controlled zone in south Lebanon in 1991 and said the group had stepped up attacks in recent months to try to scuttle the Middle East peace talks. 
Arens called Musawi "a man with a lot of blood on his hands" and said: "One may as­sume that the fact that he was killed isn't entirely coinciden­tal." 

The attack on Musawi's con­voy followed air strikes earlier Sunday on Palestinian refugee camps at Ein el-Hilweh and Rashidiyeh, in which police said four people were killed and 11 wounded. 
At Rashidiyeh, the Israelis struck an empty two-story mili­tary base that had been used by Fatah, the mainstream PLO faction. 
Israel had blamed Fatah for the fatal raid early Saturday on an Israeli army camp near the West Bank, in which three sol­diers were killed by Arab as­sailants armed with knives, axes and pitchforks. 
That attack sent shock waves through Israel, where military preparedness is a matter of na­tional pride. Right-wing law­makers and Jewish settlers have repeatedly urged that Israel pull out of Middle East peace talks because of attacks in the occupied territories, and some cited the raid on the army camp as new proof that the Palestinians do not want peace. 
Israeli forces along the Lebanon border and its allied South Lebanon Army militia went on alert following Musawi's killing to repel re­venge attempts by Hezbollah guerrillas, Israel's national Itim news agency reported. 
Jewish settlements in north­ern Israel also declared an alert, fearing retaliatory rocket attacks, ltim said. 
In the convoy strike, police said Musawi was riding in a black Mercedes limousine in a motorcade of several vehicles near Sharqiya, 13 miles south­east of the port city of Tyre, when two Israeli helicopter gunships attacked with wire­guided missiles. 

OBCJAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary Open to ALL majors. Career and Placement Services February 24, 25, 26 

IllALUMNI 
~!:CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS · 

The 1992 xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Clas..C\es & Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts & Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies & Social Sciences from May 18-August 14. For your copy call or write: 
X\VIEK 
iH Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 
"'*''

Ji 3800 Victory Parkway
.,J%.·. 

~~A* Cincinnati, OH 45207·3123 w· • 513/745·3601 
Xavier University is an academic community committed to equal opportunity for all persoi'IS regardless ofage, sa, race, religion, handicap, or national origin. 
\ 
Monday, February 17, 1992 The Observer pageS 
Roh signs nuclear accord 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ­President Roh Tae-woo on Monday signed agreements with North Korea calling for reconciliation and a nuclear weapons ban. 
It was unclear how much the agreements, reached in December, would ease the in­tense rivalry between the two Koreas. The North has refused to put the nuclear dispute on the main agenda at talks Wednesday and Thursday be­tween the two nations' prime ministers. 
North Korea has agreed, however, to discuss the nuclear issue outside the conference room at the meeting in Pyongyang, its capital. 
North Korean leader Kim II Sung was also expected to sign the accords. 
Roh urged North Korea to ratify soon a nuclear safe­gu~rds agreement it signed with the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency on Jan. 30. 
Many international experts believe that North Korea, one of the world's most hard-line communist states, has the ca­pability to make a crude atomic bomb as early as 1993. North Korea claims its nuclear pro­gram is peaceful. 
The Koreas have a separate agreement to set up a commit­tee to monitor denuclearization of their peninsula and conduct trial inspections of suspected nuclear weapons sites. 
North Korea has yet to say when it would allow inspections of its nuclear facilities. 
The Korean peninsula was divided into the communist North and the capitalist South in 1945 at the end of World War II 

Sophomore Cynthia Chan and senior Kay Hoover, left to right, practice playing songs planned for Sunday Mass at Breen-Phillips Hall. 
Bush opposes pollution targets 
WASHINGTON (AP} -The Bush administration will oppose setting specific pollution control targets to address the issue of global warming, government documents say. 
In a U.S. position paper pre­pared for this week's U.N. con­ference, the administration urges that nations "take suit­able measures" to reduce so­called greenhouse gases, but argues that such measures should vary from one country to another. 
The conference, which begins Tuesday in New York, is charged with preparing a draft treaty on what actions should be taken to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that scientists fear is causing the earth to become warmer. 
cific target of cutting the pol­lution that causes global warming and stabilize such emissions by the end of the decade. 
President Bush has stead­fastly refused to tie the United States to a specific timetable for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, arguing that such measures would be exceedingly expensive and may, in fact, not be achievable. Carbon dioxide emissions come from the burn­ing of fossil fuels. 
The document, reflecting the administration's negotiating position at the upcoming talks, was made public by Sen. Albert Gore, D-Tenn., who said he had received it from an administra­tion whistleblower. 
Reilly, appearing on the same program, defended the admin­istration on the issue, suggest­ing a cautious approach until there is a broader scientific consensus about global warm­ing and its potential. 
The administration's outline for a proposed treaty avoids setting any specific pollution reduction targets, but urges that treaty participants address the global warming problem not only by seeking to curtail greenhouse gases, but also develop and protect the .natural "sinks" -such as tropical rain forests -that absorb green­house gases. 
The administration will argue that while efforts should be made to limit greenhouse emis­

Please recycle this paper when you are finished reading it. Thank you!  World leaders hope to sign a "What it shows is that they sions through increased energy final treaty this summer in are still preparing to stonewall conservation and efficiency, the Brazil. the entire rest of the wor~d" on.. measures should take into at:­Environmentalist have called dealing with global warming, count "national circumstances, on the United States to follow Gore said Sunday on CNN's development priorities and ca­the lead of most European "Newsmaker Sunday." pabilities," including economic countries and establish a spe-EPA Administrator William costs.  
©J@ UiftU~IHI IHIITJT JTIHI~ ~~~IHI Spring Breakin' in Panama City, FL $99 Daytona Beach, FL $159. Ft. Lauderdale/Bahamas Cruise $279 Cancun $489 cail Lance Dawson® 271-1681  'Ihe Obse&Ver. Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Illustrations Director Graphics Director •Applicants for Illustration Director should have strong drawing skills and editorial experience. •Applicants for Graphics Director should be creative and familiar with Macintosh MacDraw. •All applicants must have good management skills. To apply, submit a one page personal statement, resume, and 3 examples ofpast work to John Rock by 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 18. For further job descriptions, call The Observer, 239-5303  

Peace plan opponent ousted in Yugoslavia 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP} -The last key opponent of a 
U.N. plan to deploy thousands of peacekeepers to war-torn Croatia was ousted from power on Sunday, according to news reports. 
Yugoslavia's Tanjug news agency said legislators of the Krajina, an ethnic Serb enclave within Croatia, fired Krajina President Milan Babic in a spe­cial session. The assembly also dissolved the Krajina govern­ment, said Tanjug. 
Babic could not be reached for comment. Tanjug said 7 4 deputies voted for his dismissal, eight were opposed and three abstained. 
The removal of Babic from office would clear the last ob­stacle to the U.N. plan, which aims to enforce a truce in a civil war in which more than 8,000 people have been killed and hundreds of thousands up­rooted from their homes. 
Babic objects to the plan be­cause it treats Krajina as part of Croatia and calls for the withdrawal of the Serb-domi­nated federal army and the dis­arming of thousands of Babic's irregular forces. 
He has warned of bloodshed if peacekeepers are sent to his region. The United Nations in­tends to send about 10,000 troops to the republic. 
Babic resisted the peace plan even after Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, who picked Babic to lead the Krajina Serbs, embraced it. Now the two are rivals. 
Sunday's developments re­flected an escalating power struggle within Krajina. But it was unclear if the meeting in Glina truly achieved the goal of removing Babic from power. 
The Krajina assembly already endorsed the peace plan on Feb. 9 in a meeting in Glina, 100 miles north of Knin, the capital of Krajina. But Babic overrode that vote, calling it stage-managed by leaders in Serbia. 
The next day, the assembly voted to hold a referendum on the U.N. plan. 
Also Sunday, opposition lead­ers in Serbia claimed to have gathered 110,000 signatures in three days on a petition de­manding the resignation of Milosevic, the Serbian presi­dent. 
Milosevic has lost much popu­lar support as the war drags on and the economy worsens. 
::>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:>:::::::::::::::>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>:<<::::::::::::::<{::::::::::r:::::~:>::::::::::::::::::::::>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>t::::::tt>>>r::::::::::t:f:}r>:tt{<:>:::::<:>>>::::::>>>>>::~~f~~ 

0 ~ I ~ 
·::Jt:::::::::::::::{::::::{:::::::ttrrrrrrrrrrrrrr:t:r::r::::r::::::r:m:m:r@r:rrr:t:r::::rrrrrrrr:tttttt:t::::::rr::rr::::rrrr::r::r::::r::::rr::r::::rr:tttrr:r::::r:tttrt:::rrrr::r::r:ttt:r::::::::r\~r:\\\\ 
page 6 The Observer Monday, February 17, 1992 
Democratic hopefuls debate as primary nears 
Cuomo 'regrets' his absence from New Hampshire primary 
Economic issues, Bush attacks, dominate talks 
MANCHESTER, N.H. (API­Sen. Tom Harkin of Iow·a campaign, saying he'd win 
Five Democratic presidential pressed his case as a champion substantially and "go on to have 
candidates took turns replaying of traditional Demo::ratic another four years as 
the themes of their New liberalism, saying Democrats presiclent." 
Hampshire primary campaigll6 should offer a sharp break from "You make serious choices 
Sunday night, lambasting Bush's policies, not fine tuning here, and you don't elect the 
President Hush time and again on taxes and other issues. loudest or the biggest 
in a debate concentrated on Former California Gov. Jerry protester," he told a pancake 
economic issues. Brown said there is a clear breakfast. 
Four of the five, reflecting a choice among the Democratic Conservative challenger 
certain sentiment to take care rivals because he wants to Patrick Buchanan insisted he 
of work-related concerns at shake the entire system and can stall the president in New 
home, said that they would alter the power structure in Hampshire and in the March 3 
spend $10 billion to retrain America. Georgia pr~mary, go on to other 
American workers rather than "I would say pick Mr. Tsongas contests and eventually "drive 
use it to provide economic aid if you want the more Mr. Bush out of this campaign." 
to the Russians. conservative business version," All the polls show Bush 
"In a heartbeat, I'd spend it Brown said. ahead, but they differ on the 
on American workers," said Asked if there were $10 margin. Buchanan said he 
Arkansas Gov. Hill Clinton, billion available to be spent on expects to do "extraordinarily 
saying the money would be best either retraining American well." 
spent on programs such an workers or to help the former "We have run a campaign 
apprenticeship for U.S. Soviet Union, four said they that has thrown the White 
workers. would use it in the United House itself on the defensive," 
Timing made the debate States, while Brown said it's not he said in an interview with 
crucial -voting begins in little a yes or no situation, there's WBZ-TV in Boston. 
more than 30 hours in the first money available for both. Bush told a question and 
presidential primary election of Brown said if the money was answer session in Hollis that "I 
1992. invested in the former Soviet don't remember a campaign 
Paul Tsongas, the former Union, it could serve as "seed" ever with quite this much 
Massachusetts senator favored money to create a huge market negative campaigning." 
in the polls, took an aggressive for U.S. products. He said most of it is aimed at 
tone toward Hush. Tsongas said the money him, "coming out of a jillion 
"What principles is he willing should be spent at home, Democrats" and one 
to sacrifice for something else?" because only if the U.S. Republican. 
he asked. "Almost all of them." economy is strong can America The Democratic debate 
He cited specifically Bush's be generous to other nations. warmup came in Sunday 
political passage to an anti­"You take this country, make it interview programs, Tsongas on 
abortion position·. Of the strong, make it vibrant, make it NBC "Meet the Press," Clinton 
Democratic field, he said, competitive," he said. and Harkin on "This Week with 
"What we have to offer, is a Earlier Sunday, in a television David Brinkley" on ABC. 
core of principle." interview, Harkin sniped at both Tsongas repeated that if he 
Tsongas, befitting his Tsongas and Clinton. He said were president, he would veto a 
frontrunner status, drew fire Tsongas sounds like a middle income tax cut, a 
from most of the field for his Republican while the proposal pushed by Democratic 
support of nuclear power and controversy over Clinton's Congressional leaders. 
especially the Seabrook nuclear personal life and draft record He said it's irrelevant for 
plant that operates in New raise questions of character and people who don't have jobs, and 
Hampshire. veracity. "They raise questions the first responsibility of 
Clinton said Americans need a in everyone's mind, and, of government is to set policies president with "the vision to tell course, I'm like everyone else in that get them back to work. To the nation where we are and America," he said. do that, Tsongas advocates tax where we ought to go ... who incentives for investment, has the ability to change things. But Clinton said Americans saying a middle income tax cut 
"You can make jobs, you can "know that I have stoutly would only increase the deficit educate people, you can solve denied the untrue, tabloid, without really helping people. social problems," he said. paid-for trash" alleging an illicit Tsongas said the New "That's what America needs." affair, "and they know now I Hampshire outcome could send 
Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska didn't dodge the draft." Democrats in Washington a said he'd demand prompt message of voter support for his action on national health care, In Nashua, Bush wrapped up economic formula, and he could his central campaign issue. his Republican primary make it stick if he won the 
Forensic scientist is silent on Huey Long 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -A Long was a former governor, Weiss' body and compare them forensic scientist is keeping a U.S. senator and a potential with witness accounts of where quiet, for now, on what he Democratic presidential candi­Weiss was shot. Starrs said he found in the grave of lluey date when he was shot at the wanted tissue samples for Long's purported killer. state Capitol. He died 30 hours toxicological, DNA and other 
James Starrs said he will re­later. Weiss was killed by a vol­tests. veal his findings Feb. 21 at the ley of gunfire from Long's national meeting of the bodyguards. But the body, taken from a American Academy of Forensic galvanized steel burial vault, Scientists in New Orleans. Witnesses said Weiss, 29, was was in an advanced state of de­
"I am promising startling killed after he fired once into composition due to moisture, he revelations," Starrs said, but Long's body with a .32-caliber said. refused to elaborate. pistol. But members of Weiss' 
family and others have main­The investigation into Long's 
Starrs, a professor at George tained that Long was shot by killing was reopened by state Washington University, went to his own bodyguards. police late last year as Starrs Baton Rouge in October and investigated. Citing a judge's exhumed the body of Carl Before the exhumation, Starrs gag order, state police have re­Weiss, Long's purported assas­said he wanted to examine the fused to talk about the investi· sin. trajectory of bullets left in gation. 
-:ns:tin\::::::::::·-· ···:: 
---------------------------------.
---------------------------······· 
:::::G:roo:tev.::::::::::::: 
._.._..._-_ ........·........·........·..... v.-:-.·..-..-..·.:· 
................................................. 
............................................. 
:::::::::::::l·:·s--:::~::t::t.::::::::::::::::::::: ·::::::.---.:::~---:!::::::::::: 
::::::::::::::ll:iinil_V.:::::::::::::::::::::: 
--------------~~-~-------····· 
----------------------------····· 
·------u-·--~-r--,-:a--d-·:~··.-.-.-:t-._._._._._._._.
----. . y_ -------­
-:-:-:-_-:. ---:-..-----:.---.-!..-:-:-:-:-:-:-:­-Li}Vj"-----..--~att---·------­
---e·--1------­
-----.. -······ 
-----------:..~----:.-------~::::: 
·····----------------------·--····
-···a· -----------·x·---~-· -.-·u·--_._._._._._
--t-· ·-.rt­
-'I}'··· ----­
K
:.-.--:..-!..·"?:.-:-.-:. -:-:-_ :••-:~-:-:-:-: 
ALBANY, N.Y. {AP)-New York Gov. Mario Cuomo ex­pressed regret Sunday that he is not running for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation on the campaign trail in the New Hampshire primary. 
"[ regret I'm not able to run and I regret that I'm not able to be with the people of New Hampshire right now." Cuomo said in a telephone interview two days before the primary. 
It was the latest twist in Cuomo's flirtation with the race for the Democratic presidential nomination. He ruled himself out as a candidate on Dec. 20 but since then has been unable to detach himself from the campaign. 
As five major Democratic candidates campaigned in New Hampshire, a Draft Cuomo Committee was urging voters there to write in his name when they go to the polls on Tuesday. 
Cuomo maintains that New York's budget problems are the reason he announced on Dec. 20 that he would not be a can­didate. 
"If I had a budget, I would be in New Hampshire right now," Cuomo said. "If I had a budget, I would be campaigning on the stump right now. I would be there from early morning to late at night if I had a budget." 
Cuomo said his first priority 
is still to negotiate a budget by 
the state's April 1 deadline, a 
feat not accomplished in New 
York since 1984. 
"Unfortunately, I don't have 

a budget, and that's why I'm 
here and not there," he said. 
As to whether he'd join the 

presidential race late-if New 
York reached a budget deal, 
Cuomo dismissed the question 
as speculation. 
"I'll have an answer to that 

question when I get the 
budget, if I get the budget," he 
said. 
The New Hampshire write-in 

effort is being orchestrated by 
the Chicago-based National 
Draft Cuomo for President 
Committee. They maintain they 
have no ties to the governor's 
New York political team. 
Also, William Hennessy, who 

was Cuomo's choice to serve as ·New York Democratic chair­man in 1982 and who served in the post for two years, began aiding in the write-in 
campaign last week. 
Cuomo has maintained a 

hand-off posture In regards to 
the write-in effort, neither con­
doning it nor asking campaign­
ers to stop. 
Cuomo said he regretted any 

confusion his position may 
have caused but he didn't feel 
it was his place to ask them to 
stop their efforts. 
presidential nomination. "When they see a mandate, they'll respond to that," he said. 
The Buchanan campaign is broadcasting advertisements accusing Bush of reneging on a tax break for middle income families that was part of his State of the Union program but was not included in a set of proposals sent to Congress with a demand for immediate action. 
Clinton has hammered the same argument, saying Sunday it was "an appalling about face." 
Bush said Sunday his 
program is "not a campaign plan" but, rather, two comprehensive bills to get the economy moving. 
"Mr. Bush is engaged in a classic bait and switch," Buchanan contended, saying that when the president was called on it, "he got sort of semi-hysterical..." 
"George Bush is a Republican Santa Claus," said Democrat Tsongas, describing himself as a liberal and calling it ironic that he is the candidate "saying no to all these giveaways." 

....,.."""liiiiiWI"""'"""'""""""'......."""'"""~....... ~~~SENI0 R CLASS WEDDING WEEK~~~~
------------------··---·--·-·--· 
MONDAY Baehelor Party ''Entertainment'' at the Linebaeker the fun begins at 9:00! 


Monday, February 17, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Bank robberies surging in cities nationwide 
CHICAGO (AP) -From Atlanta to Anchorage, from Seattle to St. Paul, bank rob­beries were epidemic last year. Authorities blame drugs, hard times and a new breed of banks that are easy marks. 
Though the nationwide total hasn't been tallied yet, it's ex­pected to top the bank-robbery record of 7,837 set in 1990, FBI officials said. 
Eight of the nation's 15 largest metropolitan areas re­ported a surge in bank heists. Several smaller cities also set records. 
Some cities -New York, San Francisco and Boston, among them -saw a decline. But Los Angeles had 810 stick-ups, by far the highest total of any city in the country, breaking the record of 7 42 set in 1983. Hold­ups in Atlanta more than doubled, to 247 from 109 in 1990, and rose in Chicago from 59 to 95. 
"It's a relatively easy crime to commit and it can be quite profitable," said Magnus Seng, a criminal justice professor at Loyola University Chicago. "Unlike robbing a grocery store where you usually get only a couple of hundred bucks, you're usually walking away with money at least in the thou­sands." 
And for drug addicts, that money is a great temptation. 
"We've got an increasing drug problem, and we're finding that a primary consideration in almost all our robberies," said Carmen Piccirillo, who heads the FBI bank robbery unit for Minnesota. The Minneapolis-St. Paul area logged 73 bank robberies last year, breaking the record of 69 set in 1981. 
Three out of five arrested bank robbery suspects have tested positive for drug use, said Bob Long, FBI spokesman for the Chicago area. 
Law enforcers and ·bankers also say they believe robberies may be increasing because more people are jobless and desperate. 
"When you go through so­called hard times, it seems that crime may take an increase but there aren't any statistics to back that up," Long said. 
The growth of branch bank­ing also is a contributing factor, police and the FBI said. Branch banks, particularly in California, have proven attrac­tive targets because they gen­erally are spread throughout suburbs, have little security and often are located near high­ways, aiding fast getaways. 
After Illinois changed its laws to allow more branch banks, the number of robberies sky­rocketed, compared to the rest of the Midwest, Seng said. 
Still, bank robbery remains a high-risk crime. Three out of four bank robbers are caught, and they face up to 25 years in federal prison for armed rob­bery, a few years less if un­armed. 

"But these people are not the most intelligent criminals in the universe," Long said. 
He cited the case of a man nabbed in Chicago after robbing a bank. President Bush was just down the street, along with three times as many police officers as usually patrol the area. When the thief ran out of the bank, the red dye pack ­inserted to mark the money and the robber -exploded. 
"He threw the money in the air, I guess thinking, 'If I'm not holding it, it doesn't count,"' Long said. 
Bank robbers often are repeat offenders, though the risk of getting caught increases with each robbery, he said. 

You'veJustBeenOeared ForTakeOff 
You can get a lot more out of life when you $129 or $189 roundtrip-and each sum­money on everything from clothing set your sights a little higher. Which is what mer travel certificate to long distance phone applying for the American Express® Card is good for $149 lllllfir"'-:_". calls. All for a is all about. When you get the Card, its or $199 roundtrip. $55 annual fee. easier to do the things you want to do. 
Obviously, savings like these
Savings that 

And with the student savings that come say a lot about the value of the Card. 
upgrade your lifestyle. 

along with it, you can do even more. And having the Card will say a lot about
As a student Cardmember you get more 

you. For one thing it says you have a handle 
Fly roundtrip on 
than great travel savings. You also save 

on what you spend, so you don't have to
Continental for less than 
Airfare exam ples based  on destin ation.  
Roundtrips  Your School Year Fare  Lowest Available Airfarest  Your Savings  
NY-L.A.  $189  $428  $239  
Boston-Orlando  $129  $328  $199  
Chicago-NY.  $129  $288  $159  

carry over abalance. It also says you're smart
$100 each way. Student Cardmembers receive four travel 
enough not to pay interest charges that can certificates. They can be used to fly any­
really add up. So take afew minutes now to where Continental Airlines flies in the 
call (have your bank address and account 48 contiguous United States. Two for the 
number ready), and apply for the American school year, and two for the summer~ 
Express Card. Depending on where you fly, each 
With all that the Card offers you, not school year travel certificate is good for 
even the sky is the limit. 

Get going, calll-800--967--AMEX. 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. 

•School year is considered Sept. 1-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Comple~e terms and conditions o~ th_i~ travel offer ~ill arriv~ ~ith ,vour certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment ofthis offer. Amencan Express assumes no habihty for Contmental Atrhnes performance. 
tLowest Available Airfares effective January 1992. Fares are compiled by the American Express Airfare Unit which monitors airfares between major centers in the United States. © 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 


page 8 The Observer 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Smile for posterity 
Juniors Frank Carrizzo, his mother, Greg laddonia, his parents, and Tim Sullivan with his parents, left to right, pose for one of many parent/student photos taken to capture the fun and excitement of JPW weekend. This particular shot was taken at the Bon Voyage Gala held at the JACC last Friday night. 
OPEC lowers output but may slice more 
GENEVA (AP) -One day after OPEC agreed to cut oil production in hopes of raising prices, Algeria's energy minis­ter said Sunday the cartel may have to slice output again in April. 
"I don't see this deal bringing a big price increase," said the Algerian official, Nordine Ait Laoussine. 
The 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reached agreement late Saturday to slash output by 1.2 million barrels of oil a day in the spring. It is seeking to raise prices by about $4 a barrel to $21. 
But Saudi Arabia on Saturday refused to accept its production limit, saying it would pump about 100,000 more barrels daily than the agreement calls for. 
"It's the best deal we could come up with under the circumstances," Ait Laoussine said at a briefing. "(It) is better than a free-for-all." 
The ministers were under enormous pressure to reduce oil production to halt the price slide and prevent a collapse in the spring, when consumption declines. The nations have been lifting output as much as pos­sible since Iraq invaded fellow cartel member Kuwait in August 1990. 
Venezuelan Oil Minister Celestino Armas, whose country was rocked by a recent coup at­tempt, surprised others by pressing for the sharpest output cut to get prices higher. 
"Armas is usually very concil­iatory, very moderate," said a senior OPEC source, who re­quested anonymity. "This time he was a hard-liner." 

-------.--, 
Monday, February 17, 1992 

Former Soviet Union defines commonwealth 
MOSCOW (AP) -Nine weeks 
after the Commonwealth of 
Independent States was born, 
the question remains: What is 
it? 

Last week's summit meeting of commonwealth leaders mainly helped to clarify what it is NOT. 
It is not a country, or a gov­ernment. Nor is it a single mili­tary bloc. It may become an economic union, but even that is uncertain. 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin pushed for a united military but was unable to sway his colleagues, even with threats that if other republics insisted on their own armies, Russia might, too. 
The heads of at least four former Soviet republics ­Ukraine, Belarus, Azerbaijan and Moldova -said they would go ahead with plans to create separate armies, ensuring the commonwealth will not have a united military. 
True, leaders of the 11 mem­ber states reaffirmed their commitment to keep the Soviet Union's immense nuclear arse­nal under strict, unified control. 
But the Soviet army of 3. 7 million men now is certain to be broken up. The doling out will take place over a two-year period and may involve further jostling for the most prized forces, such as the Black Sea fleet now claimed by Russia and Ukraine. 
Ukraine and Belarus reaf­firmed that they intend to elim­inate all nuclear weapons on their territory. When that pro­cess ends sometime in the mid­1990s, they will be free of the commonwealth militarily, their leaders said. 
The meeting in Minsk, the commonwealth's nominal capi­tal as well as capital of Belarus, kept to the established pattern of papering over deep divisions with a flurry of agreements short on substance and detail. 
"I must tell you frankly, I cannot call the documents adopted during this meeting too comforting," Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, said on Sunday. 
The three Slavic republics of Russia, Belarus and Ukraine formed the commonwealth on Dec. 8 with a vague agreement that left uncertain what the en­tity was to be. 
Since then, three contentious summits have whittled down the possibilities. 
The first. on Dec. 21, showed it was not to be a "Slavic com­monwealth." Eight other re­publics joined, turning it into a loose association of Asian and European states intent on reviving disparate cultures and languages. 
They promised not to inter­fere in each other's interi;}al af­fairs and stressed the com­monwealth was "neither a state nor a super-state." It would not have a government or a unified foreign policy. 
The second summit, on Dec. 30, was overshadowed by bick­ering between Russia and Ukraine over the Black Sea fleet. 
Many people in the former Soviet Union still hope that, in time, the republics will come together again in something re­sembling a country, with a sin­gle economy. 

Resolution: lhe Sh uld  Debate Pen IIsh •  
9:00pm Tuesday February 17  • •*Fianner vs. Grace• •OC vs. *Lyons• •*Sorin vs. St. Ed's • •*Alumni vs. Morrissey• *Indicates host dorm .-.J  

Monday, February 17, 1992 The Observer page9 
Time: Reagan, Pope aided Polish Solidarity 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Real genius 
Mike Marro, a graduate student of chemistry at ND, works on a picosecond laser in the lab on campus. 
Explorers to trace T. Roosevelt's journey on South American river 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
President Reagan, in coopera­
tion with Pope John Paul II, ap­
proved a plan a decade ago to 
secretly supply Poland's out­
lawed Solidarity movement, 
Time magazine reports. 
Spokesmen for the former 
president could not be reached 
Sunday, but Time quoted 
Reagan as saying that he and 
the pope felt the division of 
Europe at the Yalta conference 
after World War II was "a great 
mistake . . . and something 
should be done." 
"Solidarity was the very 
weapon for bringing this about, 
because it was an organization 
of the laborers of Poland," 
Reagan says in the Feb. 24 is­
sue of the magazine, which is 
available Monday. 
Reagan didn't discuss any such plan in his memoirs, but he did say in discussing Solidarity: "I wanted to be sure we did nothing to impede this process and everything we could to spur it along. This was what we had been waiting for since World War II.... But our options were limited." 
Time said its account, written by Carl Bernstein, was the re­sult of several months of re­porting in which more than 7 5 officials of the Reagan adminis­tration and the Vatican were interviewed. 
Attempts by The Associated Press to reach several officials Sunday were unsuccessful. 
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, who was Reagan's spokesman during part of his second term, said he knew nothing about the pro­gram. 
Solidarity was outlawed by a declaration of martial law in Poland in 1981. Subsequently, Time said, "tons of equipment -fax machines, printing presses, transmitters, tele­phones, shortwave radios, video cameras, photocopiers, telex machines, computers, word processors -were smuggled into Poland via chan­nels established by priests and American agents and represen­tatives of the AFL-CIO and European labor movements." 

The magazine said the supply network had its genesis in a meeting between the president and the pope in the Vatican Library on June 7, 1982. 
Time said money for the pro­ject came from CIA funds, the congressionally created National Endowment for Democracy, secret accounts in the Vatican and Western trade unions. 
The magazine said the project was part of a policy of covert operations aimed at encouraging reform movements in Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland. 
It said Reagan telephoned the pope for his advice shortly after the declaration of martial law. 
"We had a massive row in the Cabinet and the National Security Council about putting together a menu of counterac­tions," former Secretary of State Alexander Haig told the magazine. 
Haig said the options "ranged from sanctions that would have been crushing in their impact on Poland to talking so tough that we would have risked creating another situation like Hungary in '56 or Czechoslovakia in '68." 
Reagan expressed a similar concern in his memoirs, writing that "we couldn't send out a false signal, leading them to expect us to intervene militarily on their side during a revolu­tion." Some contend that the United States sent such a false signal before the doomed Hungarian uprisings. 
Major decisions on funneling aid to Solidarity were made by Reagan, CIA Director William Casey and National Security Adviser William Clark, in con­sultation with the pope, Time said. 
Fewer than three weeks be­fore his meeting with John Paul II, the magazine said Reagan signed a secret national secu­rity directive authorizing eco­nomic, diplomatic and covert measures to "neutralize efforts of the U.S.S.R." in Eastern Europe. It said a primary pur­pose of the directive was the destabilization of the Polish government. 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

by THORNTON WILDER Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10 pm Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20, 8:10pm Reserved seats: $7 
Friday Feb. 21' 8:10 pm Student and senior citizen discounts Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10pm are available for Wednesday, Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10 pm Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call239-8128 
-~--------------------------­
University ol Notre Dame Student Government Report to the Board ol Trustees "Back to Basics: Undergraduate Education at a'National Catholic Research University"' 
PAID OBSERVER ADVERTISEMENT 

PART 1: THE ISSUES AT STAKE 
The University of Notre Dame was 
established with a distinctive purjXlse-to 
educate young adults in the context of the 
traditions and values of the Catholic 
Church. Indeed, it is this unique mission 
that has given Notre Dame its character, its 
reputation and its strength. One hundred 
and fifty years later, it seems' that the 
founding mission of Notre Dame is rapidlr 
becoming lost to the secular pressures o 
academia. The movement toward 
becoming a research university is gradually 
overtaking the strong tradition of 
undergraduate education at Notre Dame. 
Research has replaced teaching as the top 
priority of administrators and faculty. 
Undergraduate education at Notre Dame is 
suffering as a result. 
THE CLAIM 
In the 1972 COUP report, the importance 
of teaching at Notre Dame was made clear. 
The report directs that ''we must always 
pay searching attention to teaching". It also 
pomts out numerous gaps in the 
university's reward system. For instance, 
the report notes that while there exists a 
vice-president in charge of research, no 
such position exists for teaching. The 
authors offer several recommendations for 
the improvement of teaching, such as 
encouraging departmental initiatives in 
teaching, increasing emphasis on 
innovative teaching methods, and 
improving the teaching evaluation system. 
The tone of the 1982 PACE report is 
slightly different. The growing importance 
of research is reflected in the report, 
although teaching is still recognrzed as a 
priority: 
At many distinguished universities, research and professional activities dominate teaching; at others, teaching dominates research. Notre Dame's responsibility to its students will not permit the former while its mission as a umversity will not permit the latter. 
The PACE report seems to hope to strike a balance between the two, with neither one predominating. 
Nevertheless, in 1992 we find that the mission of teaching has all but disappeared from Notre Dame's stated purpose. The 
University of Notre Dame Fact Sheet 1991-92, while offering considerable information about Notre Dame's research achievements and potential, says almost nothing about the strong tradition of high­quality undergraduate education. Fr. Edward Malloy states in a December 5, 1991 interview with Scholastic that, "the reputation of universities are driven by the research and graduate programs, not by the undergraduate schools." Recent university publications have tended to skirt the issue of undergraduate education, preferring instead to brush aside problems as the effects of a ''time of transition." The question to ask, however, is, "A transition to what?" 
Notre Dame identifies itself as a "National Catholic Research University." It may be the case that this self-description contradicts the essential purpose of this university. Undergraduates at Notre Dame are concerned about the use of this title. Does it mean that the current ''time of transition" is not temporary at all, but a glimpse of the future state of undergraduate education at Notre Dame? THE REALITY 
The university makes the claim that undergraduate education has not suffered as a result of the transition to a "National Catholic Research University." The following pages are devoted to proving that this claim is simply not true. Although many university administrators and faculty members are able to rationalize larger class sizes and reduced teaching loads, undergraduates do not see their point. Our experiences have been very different. Students are increasingly dissatisfied with their courses in terms of size, availability and interaction. 
In the Scholastic interview cited above, Fr. Malloy remarks that ''there are people in the departments, faculty, who defend that larger classes can be a better way to educate in some situations." Yet in the survey of students conducted by this committee, 80.7% of students report that they learn better in small classes (i.e., those with fewer than 25 people), compared to only 1 .3% who say they learn better in large classes. While only 1.6% of students find it difficult or very difficult to speak out in a class with fewer than 25 students, a full 64.0% had trouble speaking out in classes with more than 25 students. Even if administrators and faculty do not recognize the negative effects of larger classes, students certainly do. 
Teaching loads in many departments have been gradually decreasing. Recently, the College of Arts and Letters reduced its average teaching load from three-three (three courses each semester) to two-two. 
No additional faculty were hired to rnake up 
for the reduced number of courses taught. 
Rather, smaller sections have been 
combined and class size limits have been 
raised. Moreover, the university has 
increased the number of required courses 
without making appropriate adjustments in 
the affected departments. The chairman of 
the English department stated in a 
November 15,1991 Observer article that 
when the university initiated a literature 
requirement for all Arts and Letters 
students (approximately 2,400 students or 
32% of the student body), there were "no 
provisions made to give the English 
department an increased staff." 
In the Scholastic article, Fr. Malloy points 
out that the reduction in the teaching loads 
of 300 Arts and Letters faculty resulted in a 
need to hire 1 00 new faculty members to 
make up the difference, something which 
he says the university cannot afford to do. 
New faculty must be added gradually, he 
says. Yet the hiring freeze imposed upon 
the College of Arts and Letters last fall 
prohibited the filling of positions for the 
1992-93 school year, compounding the 
problem. Although the hiring freeze has 
since been lifted, Arts and Letters 
departments are still not free to expand to 
meet the needs of their students, 
something which is desperately necessary. 
The current faculty teaching load at 
Notre Dame is comparable to that required 
by most major universities. It is not clear, 
however, that all faculty members teach 
their expected load. Although the 
univerSity,v employs twenty-six faculty 
members in the department of 
management, only twenty-one 
management courses are being offered in 
the spring of 1991. Assuming that every 
faculty member is capable of teaching two 
classes each semester, then thirty-one 
potential courses are not being offered. 
This figure cannot be explained solely by 
faculty leaves, obligations to the MBA 
program or other departments, and 
administrative responsibilities. 
The most frequent response to the lack of regular teaching and research faculty has been the hiring of non-regular faculty. Non-regular faculty are typically hired only to teach and not to research. Those considered non-regular faculty include visiting professors, adjuncts, professional specialists and graduate students with sole responsibility for a course (teaching assistants are not included). Of course, there is nothing inherently wrong with the use of nonregular faculty. Listing professors who teach courses in areas not covered by the regular faculty greatly contribute to their host departments and the students. Professional specialists (such as language teachers) are often experts at teaching particular subjects and skills. Adjuncts and graduate students can also benefit the university as long as they are hired for their particular skills and not simply to fill empty teaching slots. 
Wh1le it is true that non-regular faculty play an important role in the university, this role must be carefully defined. Unfortunately, non-regular faculty have increasingly been hired to teach courses that should be handled by regular teaching and research faculty. Currently the College of Arts and Letters employs 308 teaching and research faculty and 263 non-regular faculty. The PACE report, which was chaired by Provost Timothy O'Meara, points out that: 
Obviously, research and professional activities can become so absorbing that they lead to a neglect of one's students and one's teaching. This is a danger that must be avoided. But a policy in which some are teachers and some are scholars can only lead to the undesirable result of two classes of faculty, a teaching class and a research class, with teaching in second place. 
Clearly, the university does not want this to happen. Yet when non-regular faculty members are hired in greater numbers to take over undergraduate teaching, the result is exactly what Provost O'Meara hopes to avoid-a stratified faculty. 
Notre Dame quite rightly claims to be better than most research universities in these respects. It is not, however, sufficient to be merely "better" than other institutions with extremely serious problems. We must be excellent in our own right, excellence which is not derived from comparisons to other universities. Currently the state of underwaduate education at Notre Dame is not livmg up to the high standards which the university has set for itself. CAN WE HAVE BOTH? 
The ideal response to that question would be to achieve an appropriate balance between quality undergraduate education and top-notch research. Certainly it would be wrong to assume that 
the two are mutually exclusive. They are 
not. Top researchers are often top teachers 
as well. Talent is not finite with respect to 
either one. 
What is finite, however, is time. Faculty 
members have only so many hours in their 
days. The more time they are encouraged 
or required to devote to research, the less 
time they have to teach and interact with 
students. It can be arQued that faculty are 
responsible for choosmg to devote more 
time to one or the other. Yet Notre Dame's 
reward system (i.e., tenure, promotion and 
general respect) places considerably more 
emphasis on research rather than 
teaching. It is small wonder that faculty 
members tend to devote more time to 
research, for that is what the university 
rewards. The pressure is especially great 
on junior faculty members who are 
pursuing tenure. 
The resulting situation is one in which 
time spent on research is far more 
profitable for faculty members than time 
spent on teaching. Clearly, the ones who 
suffer from this attitude are the 
undergraduates, who are generally not 
involved in the research activities of their 
professors. In the Scholastic interview, Fr. 
Malloy states that 77% of the university's­
operating budget comes from tuition, room 
and board. These are costs incurred 
almost solely by undergraduates. Do the 
undergraduates receive 77% of their 
professors' time? Rarely. 
Notre Dame cannot possibly maintain a 
top-quality undergraduate program at a 
"National Catholic Research University" 
without investing a great deal of money 
into areas such as faculty hiring, something 
which it has shown itself unwilling to do. If 
priority is given to the research end of the 
stick without compensation for the lost 
teaching, then undergraduate education is 
sure to suffer. 
WHAT SHOULD WE DO? 
Notre Dame is not the first university to set out on the path toward becoming a research oriented institution. Yet it is doing so at a time when many of these universities are reevaluating their policies and changing direction. Many have discovered that what lies at the other end is not worth the costs incurred by undergraduates and the univers1ty itself. They are returning to the place where Notre Dame has been all along, a place where strong undergraduate education anchors the success of the university as a whole. Meanwhile, we are abandoning this place just at time when we should be holding our ground and standing firm in our mission, proud of our accomplishments. 
Stanford University is among those institutions which have begun to realize that the costs to undergraduate education at a primarily research university have been too high. Former Stanford president Donald Kennedy notes that ''there is a real (and generic) problem with undergraduate education at institutions like ours." Like many other major research universities, Stanford is currently engaged in a serious study of teaching and undergraduate education at a research-dominated university, critically evaluating problems and making corresponding recommendations. 
Stanford has recently decided to set aside $7 million to study the problem and establish solutions, such as offering financial incentives for quality teaching and developing various programs designed to improve undergraduate education. In a similar effort, Columbia University has established endowed chairs based on teaching excellence alone. Over the past several years, Harvard University has channeled more than $5 million mto a Center for Teaching and Learning, a program which helps faculty develop their teaching skills. In recent years the Harvard Assessment Seminar, a group of 100 individuals, has met monthly to discuss ways to improve the undergraduate experience at their university. The University of Michigan and the University of Pennsylvania have made similar strides. As financially pressured as all universities are these days, the fact that these top­ranked schools have devoted so much time and money to this issue demonstrates the importance and severity of the problem. 
Why does Notre Dame wish to become a "National Catholic Research University"? Why is it so important to follow in the footsteps of these institutions which are just now adding up the costs of their "progress?" Notre Dame is not one of these institutions, nor should it strive to be so. The Catholic nature of this university places it in a distinctive position. More so than its secular research-dominated counterparts, Notre Dame has a deep­rooted mission to teach. This mission is backed by the religious foundations of the Catholic Church and the Holy Cross Order, an element which is missing from the Harvards and Stanfords of this world. 

Fr. Malloy has said that "Notre Dame is 
an undergraduate institution." One can only 
hope that he means what he says. Fr. 
Malloy and other university officials 
undoubtedly have a strong commitment to 
undergraduate education. They certainly 
do not want undergraduates to suffer 
during this transition to a research 
university. Yet it seems that Notre Dame 
has not given adequate consideration to 
the topic of undergraduate education at a 
"National Catholic Research University" 
and that its stated commitment to 
continuing excellence at the undergraduate 
level is not backed by tangible efforts to 
maintain it. The strong tradition of 
undergraduate education at Notre Dame 
will not continue unaided. If this university 
is to remain a place where students come 
to be educated in the unique way possible 
only at a Catholic institution, then Notre 
Dame will have to do more than pay lip 
service to undergraduate teaching. 
No one can deny the importance of 
research at Notre Dame. It is what 
distinguishes a university from a high 
school or /'unior college. It is not the case 
that excel ent research and excellent 
teaching are mutually exclusive concepts. 
But as Provost O'Meara himself points out 
in the PACE report, "it is through our 
teaching that our students are formed and 
their intellectual curiosity enhanced. When 
teaching loses its importance, the students 
suffer." · 
Who shall we let determine what makes 
a "great" university? Does US News & 
World Report truly understand the nature 
of a Catholic university? No survey of 
institutions can adequately take into 
consideration the distinctive elements 
which make Notre Dame what it is. Many 
people believe that the University of Notre 
Dame is one of the finest universities in the 
world precisely because of its unique 
character. At Notre Dame, the traditional 
undergraduate education is closely bound 
up with the ethical and moral teachings of 
the Catholic Church. No secular university 
can offer quite this combination. 
It is not the papers published by faculty members that form the foundation of Notre Dame's character. Rather, it is the people who have graduated from here, people who have been educated and shaped by the values of the Catholic Church. Papers and articles about medical, legal, and business ethics do not make nearly as much difference in society as the doctors, lawyers, and business men and women who make decisions based on what they have learned at Notre Dame. 
What do we want from Notre Dame? Do we want a factory, churning out undergraduates hurriedly taught in hu9.e lecture halls by professors who make 1t clear that they have something more profitable to do? Or do we want a true Catholic university, one in which all students are carefully taught and nurtured so that they become people of character, ready to face the challenges ahead? 
Notre Dame is at a critical juncture in its history. The choice to become a "National Catholic Research University" is being brought about at a serious cost to undergraduate education, a cost which may prove to be too high. Undergraduates do not come to Notre Dame to increase the value of their diploma, something which has been pointed to as a potential benefit of the current trend. We come here to be educated in the Catholic tradition of Notre Dame, an education unmatched by any other institution. If this motivation for undergraduates disappears, then what will become of Notre Dame? 
This question goes beyond issues of class size and availability. It is a larger question, posed to the Notre Dame community as a whole. What is this place that we call Notre Dame and what is its mission? Are we betraying that mission by becoming a"National Catholic Research University?" These questions must be given very serious thought, much more than that which has occurred to date. The answers are not provided in this report, nor can they be derived from outside sources. Rather, they must come from within the Notre Dame community. Questions such as these require serious consideration of our purpose and our potential as a university. Notre Dame is an institution with a unique mission which sets it apart from other universities. We must not lose that distinctiveness or we will destroy the very source of our greatness. 
ff you would like to rrNJd the remalner of the 
report, It Is available In the reserve room of the Hesburgh Library. Thank you . 
~TUDE •NT 
60Vflllf1J 
Business 

Monday, February 17, 1992 page 11 
Housing stock predicted to increase 
By JULIE BARRETI 
Business Writer 
Changes in the value of owner-occupied housing stock determine the financial fortunes of many participants in the U.S. economy according to Jim Follain, Chairman of the Economics Department at Syracuse University. 
Follain discussed the current status of the housing market and predicted its future direc­tion at a lecture Thursday titled "Property Taxes Under Siege, Housing Markets as We Ap­proach the 21st Century." 
Despite tough economic times in the United States, Follain estimates that the value of housing stock will probably in­crease by several percent in real terms during the 1990s. 
"The value of housing stock probably will not rise as much as it did during the 1980s, but I'm optimistic that it will con­tinue to grow in the '90s," Fol­lain said. 
Follain bases his optimistic outlook on the ability of mar­kets to quickly adjust to adverse conditions. 
"There are many ways in which households and firms can adjust their behavior in re­sponse to falling housing prices that can prevent such steep de­clines in the real price of hous­ing," Follain said. 
For example, Follain states, the typical size of a household may decline, the rate at which households choose ownership versus renting may increase and the amount of housing consumers choose to purchase may increase. Builders can also be expected to alter their behavior, in which production would fall to near zero and ex­isting housing would be trans­ferred to other uses until price returned to a level close to re­placement cost, Follain added. 
LARGO, Fla. (AP) -Enter­prise Village is a small, bustling place, where the townsfolk op­erate stores, pay bills, take out loans and staff city hall. And they're only 10 and 11 years old. 
After two months of class­room preparation in consumer economics, Pinellas County's 8,000 fifth-graders get a hands­on learning experience about the American free enterprise system. 
For one day, as many as 120 youngsters at a time operate the village, computing interest, managing checking accounts, buying and selling, even placing advertisements in a village newspaper. 
The businesses the children run have the same names they see in their neighborhoods ­Blockbuster Video, Eckerd drugs, Florida Power Corp., Barnett bank, McDonald's 
Follain's reasoning does not imply that the adjustment pro­cess is flawless and unable to be improved. However, it does suggest that the values of owner-occupied housing will remain largely intact for most regions of the country and for most households during the 1990s, according to Follain.. 
"Neither does the analysis suggest that all is right with the housing market and that government policy toward the housing market cannot be im­proved," Follain said. 
According to Follain, the gov­ernment gives most of its sub­sidies on owner-occupied hous­ing to high income households. Follain suggests that the gov­ernment reallocate some of this investment in expensive owner­occupied housing to lower in­come renters and to other sec­tors of the economy in which subsidy funds can be better used. 
restaurant and even a hospital. 
As managers, meter readers, cashiers, sales people, tellers and accountants, the young­sters earn between $13.50 and $16.50 a day in play money. 
During breaks, they spend it on pens, stickers, puzzles, foot­ball posters, sun glasses, sports cups, sodas or videos. 


The Observer/Kristina Roderick 
What they buy isn't as impor­

Jim Follain, chairman of Syracuse University's economics department,
tant as the experience of buying 

discussed the future of the U.S. housing market in a lecture at Has­
it, organizers said. 

burgh Library Auditorium on Thursday. 
Children receive free enterprise lesson 


'WORT.DW&DE 
COliiJ.t1 u N.IC.&. TI:ONS
•
11\TF'OJI.MAT.ION 
ACCESS
•
CAMPUS COllldiulVJ:C.&.T.IONS 
Viewpoint 

page 12 Monday, February 17, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
Newa Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Butrus/O'Neill will serve as puppets 
Dear Editor: On the greater issues, which The student body of Notre 
After browsing through the I am sure concern a good Dame does not need a more election results in the number of the students at this convenient way to spend its February 11, 1992, edition of university, Butrus and O'Neill money (as Butrus and O'Neill The Observer, two things seem nothing but complacent. seem so bent on providing); occurred to me. The first, at When asked by a fellow before we go and spend more which I am quite dismayed, is student what the two planned money, why not give some that the student body here at to do about alternate meal worth to the thousands of dol­Notre Dame has once again plans, Butrus meekly replied lars we already spend at this voted the "safe" ticket, Greg that the University made a university? Butrus and Molly O'Neill, into great deal of money on the We do not need better the offices of Student Body food services enterprise, and security to travel back and President and Vice President. therefore it was not practical forth from the bars; we need The second, about which I am to pursue any change. better security in the form of much more pleased, is the Butrus may call this financial aid to assure that we support that the ticket of practical. but it might be can afford a quality education! George Smith and Mike better termed puppetry, and Goodwin, the so-called the crew under the Dome are The strong finish of the "outsiders," received. the puppet-masters. The duo Smith/Goodwin ticket assures 
The victory of the of Butrus and O'Neill will sit me that there is a substantial Butrus/O'Neill ticket proved back complacently filling their portion of the Notre Dame that a majority of the student resumes, while the Monk and student body who wants these body (50.8 percent to be Patty puppet show continues critical issues addressed. More exact) still is unwilling to put a to pull our strings. than ever. I feel that there is a little diversity and energy into recognizable call for change at student government. However, I previously said that there this university. Notre Dame the second-place finish (22.6 was one aspect of the election cannot stand pat with its me­percent of the vote) of the that showed me that all hope dieval ways of thinking and Smith/Goodwin ticket shows was not lost. This was the fact treating its students. that all hope is not lost. that the Smith/Goodwin ticket 
received 22.6 percent of the For what is a university 
While the combination of vote. With a 64.4 percent without its students? We, as Butrus and O'Neill in office turnout, that means that members of the Notre Dame will not be detrimental to the nearly 15 percent of the student body, cannot just be student body, it will not, in all student body is willing to take complacent and Jet the probability, be much of an ad­a chance. Smith and Goodwin administration dictate our dition. These two will fit in were running on the premise education and our lives. We perfectly with the already apa­that they would press the must stand up and express thetic student body. Butrus administration on more im­our right to the best education and O'Neill ran on a ticket of portant issues like co-ed that this university can give proposals that they knew had dorms, homosexuality on cam­us. Only we as students can a good chance of passing pus, and changes in Du Lac. return the University of Notre through the administration. Their main goal, as stated by Dame to the upper echelon of With an 10-card based credit Smith in Scholastic, was "to American universities. That system and better off-campus provide the best education for should be our goal, and, I security in the "student­Notre Dame students that the believe. our obligation. patronized" areas in South University can give us." To Bend, the two had a ticket that this, every Notre Dame Christopher C. Tidrick could best be termed as student is entitled and should Zahm Hall "safe." not rest until it is provided. Feb.11,1992 

SeNATOR, A5 M£ HeAD INTO THIS FIRST PRIMARY, 
ti/HAT ARE YOUR. !3XPF5C­TATIONS? WHAT fXJ YOU HAVl' TO r%T 7D REMAIN 
VIABU? 
IA/el.l-, T£3}, GIVEN MY lACK OF &x.P0'31.JR&, 8% !JXUI} /38 A T!<EMEN{}(XIS SHOWING FOR. Me. 
Y~, BUT {X)N'T 'tW REAL-l-Y HAV8 TO GeT TWICE THAT TO 5TAY IN THE RAC&? · 
ND candidates failed to face primary issues 
Dear Editor: things which Butrus and O'Neill 
The Student Body President thought important enough to elections are over, and Greg advertise under the "Campus Butrus and Molly O'Neill have Life" section of their campaign come out the winners, garner­posters was their idea for a ing 50.8% of the vote, enough to campus credit card. end the election in the first "This is the type of change round. In The Observer, Butrus that we as students deserve ­was quoted as saying that the and that we as student leaders Butrus/O'Neill position on will demand," their poster adding two study days had reads. And campus credit "received a mandate from the cards are such a strong de­voters." However, the real mand, too. Before we know it mandate by Domers this time Notre Dame could be plunged around was for another year of into a revolution. the same old garbage that has The students of Notre Dame been here for far too long. had the opportunity to put can­
Notre Dame is sometimes didates in office who promised called a great university, but a real fight to change Notre being great takes constant Dame's age-old and antiquated work, and Notre Dame is falling "traditions," but we threw away ever more swiftly into the dark the chance. It is depressing to ages. Undergraduates are see that for the first time in becoming increasingly seven years the candidates unimportant to Notre Dame in were elected with no run-off the face of the university be­needed, and these candidates coming a Catholic Research seem to promise so little. So I Institution where undergradu­guess it is a mandate from the ate studies really do not matter. voters, a mandate to get Still, Butrus and O'Neill could screwed over again by a stu­only come up with study days dent government that is too as an area of improvement to afraid or too lazy to fight the academics. It is a noble effort administration which refuses to and definitely a good idea, but listen to the students. there are more pressing I can only hope that Mr. problems weighing on the Butrus and Miss O'Neill actually declining educational quality of attempt to do something a bit Notre Dame. beyond the minimal ideas 
With Notre Dame still dealing presented within their cam­with ancient parietal rules and paign, and use their term to re­the lack of at least optional ally change Notre Dame for the coeducational housing, as well better. as dismal male/female relations and the depressing status of William Albertini minority affairs and of homo-Zahm Hall sexuals on campus, the only Feb.11, 1992 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'In eyes of nature we are just another species in trouble.' 
Lionel Tiger and Robin Fox The Imperial Animal 
Wake up to find out. then submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Monday, February 17, 1992 page 13 
LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
Women choosing abortion deserve only compassion 
Co-ed Pangborn is a great idea 
Dear Editor: opportunity to choose between The most attractive feature of 
the two. Most of the students I the proposal is that such an un­
I am writing to express my have talked with are serious, dertaking would be voluntary. I support for the proposal responsible adults who take know that there are plenty of (offered by John Daly and their life and faith very students who are simply tired of James Gannon) to convert seriously. They deserve to be the dorm drunks and the rowdi­
Dear Editor: 
Having just finished reading Peter Helland's article about Notre Dame students lacking compassion for "slaughtered" babies, I sat for a minute to ponder why we would expect them to. Personally, I would never stand in the way of a woman's right to an abortion, and I dread the day when that right is taken away. 
The issues often get confused, and there is little common ground between pro-choice and pro-life activists. Therefore, I will not try to change the views of those opposing me. There is no point. I've been told many times that life begins at conception, but I've also heard that no one knows when life begins. Sadly, I am at impasse in my ideology; who do I believe? 
Rather than despair, long ago I decided to care for the women who have no other choice or must face an unwanted child. I am not referring to rape or incest, but to the other unfortunate women facing an unwanted pregnancy. These women I choose to have compassion for because they deserve it as humans~ The moment we point fingers and try to judge these women, they become somehow less than us: less human. 
Peter Helland reminds us that Christ said, "Whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not do for me." This is all well and good, but Christ in the same sentence is saying that we must help the mothers not just the babies. It is decepetive to say that saving unwanted children is the free ride to heaven. If there is a heaven and a god, and if Peter Helland is correct, then I guess I'll never see it. 
Charlotte Bronte wrote in 1847. "Coventionality is not morality. Self-righteousness is not religion. To attack the first is not to assail the last." I leave it at that. 
Dave Mack Keenan Hall 
Feb.12,1992 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Professor David O'Connor's comment as quoted in the Feb. 13 Observer that "the students aren't the core of the university, the faculty is." How ignorant I have always been in thinking that a university exists to open the minds and hearts and souls of its students to a world of knowledge. 
I can only thank Professor 
O'Connor for deigning to descend from his faculty position on high to feed us untutored masses of students . a few morsels of intellectual wisdom about the true purpose of our University. And to think I actually believed that students mattered. I am ashamed of my ignorance. 
Michael Buchheit Grace Hall 
Feb.13, 1992 
Pangborn into a co-ed, chemical trusted. free dorm. It is a creative way to address the myriad of Contrary to some beliefs, the problems which flow from poor availability of co-ed dorms will gender relations and alcohol not translate into permission abuse on this campus. for sexual relations to occur be­
My own experience as an tween the sexes. Our context assistant rector leads me to remains Catholic and our believe that the majority of fidelity to what the Church Notre Dame students are teaches is a mandate. I believe mature enough to manage such co-ed dorms, subject to some a housing arrangement. While limitations, can lend themselves single-sex dorms are attractive to promoting those teachings in for many reasons, and I support a healthy setting in which the continuation of them in genuine friendship, not based addition to co-ed dorms, I do on romance or sex, can occur think our students deserve the between men and women. 

ness which comes with them. My guess is that there would be many more students who would volunteer for such an experiment than Pangborn could accommodate. 
I applaud the effort of John Daly and James Gannon to ad­vance the discussion a little fur­ther with this creative solution. I hope that it is given serious 
..

consideration. 
MaryYu Assistant Rector Siegfried Hall 
Feb.13,1992 

Military and morality not opposed 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Jon Davidson's Feb. 6 letter about conscien­tious objection and the military, I feel someone should clarify a few points. There has not been draft in almost 20 years. The medical officer he mentioned was not an unwilling conscript. No one forced her to accept military benefits. No one forced her to cash her government checks. 
CPT Huet-Vaughn swore upon taking her oath of office that she accepted her military obli­gation freely, and without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion. If she later devel­oped a conscientious objection, there was a process available to her for applying for CO status. Her public statements did not substitute for actually applying for CO status, and she knew that. Because she neglected to complete an application, she was no different from any other soldier who has ever failed to, or refused to deploy with her unit; she was absent without leave, and she missed her unit's movement. 
Unauthorized absence is a very straight-forward offense; a soldier is guilty by not reporting to, or leaving an appointed place of duty without autho­rization. Mr. Davidson suggests that during the time between her refusal to deploy and filing her claim for CO status, CPT Huet-Vaughn was a "'war resistor, a selective conscien­tious objector.'" No she wasn't. She knew exactly what she was; she was absent without leave. 
Additionally, her unit deployed during her period of unautho­rized absence. Since she knew of this deployment, she was also guilty of missing a unit movement. CPT Huet-Vaughn knew what the consequences of her actions would be, and should, therefore, be held ac­countable. 
Members of the military do not enjoy leaving their families knowing they may never return. They, however, believe that in the real world, certain respon­sibilities are the obligation of those able to bear them. This, by the way, is also the position of the Catholic Church. 
Mr. Davidson insists on asking a rather old question; does the military belong on a Catholic campus? The Catholic Church has always supported those serving in the military, and the right of a nation to defend itself. Since a state has the right to defend itself, there is no inconsistency in one country aiding another that has been the victim of blatant aggression. Mr. Davidson's "easily drawn" conclusion about the supposed systematic perpetration of war 

crimes by the U.S. is neither easily drawn nor logically con­clusive. He then states this is why CPT Huet-Vaughn knew at the outset that the war in the Persian Gulf would be an "unjust" war. It seems incredi­ble that CPT Huet-Vaughn could have based her claim in such a belief. Under this theory, no war the U.S. could become involved in would be "just" in her eyes. 
If she had truly believed this, she would never have volun­teered for the Army, or would have immediately followed the appropriate procedure to apply for CO status as soon as she experienced such "revelation." It would not have taken the ac­tivation of her reserve unit to convince her that she no longer wished to be in the Army. 
Finally, Mr. Davidson proposes a ridiculous question. He asks those thinking of entering the military that they consider what they are prepared to endure to uphold their beliefs. What more can they possibly do to show their dedication to their beliefs? By entering the military, these people have al­ready said they are prepared to defend their beliefs (and his) with their lives. 
Robert McMonagle Off-campus 
Feb.11,1992 

Church of Loretto 'masterpieces' should not be destroyed 
Dear Editor: 
"They shall take away ...all monuments of feigned miracles, pilgrimages, idolatry and super­stition, so that there remain no memory of the same in walls, glass windows, or elsewhere within their churches ."-Injunctions of Queen Elizabeth 1, 1559. 
In this age of multiculturalism, it seems that Catholic churches-not to mention the Roman Catholic Church itself-are simply too Catholic. For this reason I am glad that the purifying influence of Mary's. 
The Renovation Committee re­cently held a meeting to discuss the renovation scheme with stu­dents and other members of the lay rabble. Initially, I feared that these well-meaning but ignorant folks might interfere with the original plan, especially the removal of the painted glass windows. Fortunately, the Committee had the wisdom to continue denying all requests for modification. As good public servants, they realize that the public can only interfere with their efforts to members of the Elect. This status gives them the authority to tear down the work of previous generations over the objections of the present one. Their efforts to explain their personal revelations to the non­Elect are admirable, though no doubt futile. For it is like dis­cussing a painting with a blind person. 
If the masses cannot be made to understand that plain glass windows Oike the ones found in houses, shopping malls, and microwave ovens) are more beautiful and appropriate for be said. One might as well try to explain to someone unversed in Modernist architecture the self­evident proposition that "less is more." 
However, I must express my reservations concerning at­tempts to relocate the windows elsewhere on campus. Of course, there would be great practical problems, not least the scarcity of large, round, gaping holes on campus crying out to be covered with formerly sacred images of the Blessed Virgin. More importantly, there 

I can think of no greater sacrilege than the destruction of an old masterpiece simply because it does not conform with contemporary notions about what is beautiful or liturgically proper. If those who come after us want a church designed in their own image, let them build their own, I say. 
They must not be allowed to disturb the integrity of the Renovated Church of Loretto. We must remove the windows 
-

by the method of our Protestant heroes: by hurling stone after stone until not a shard of 
Protestantism, as exemplified serve. the Church of Loretto than is the danger that future colored glass remains. by the above commandment The members of the painted glass windows (which generations might question the 
-
from Good Queen Bess, is alive Renovation Committee, after all, have been used in papist perfection of our aesthetic Roger Hlpp and well in the Church of are enlightened by Calvinist churches for the last principles; they might re-install Dillon Hall Loretto renovation project at St. teaching: they realize they are millennium), nothing more can the windows. Feb.12,1992 

Accent 

Page 14 Monday, February 17, 1992 

.. 
--
By TIM ROGERS 
Accent Writer 
0 
n any given Tuesday, a curious troop of musicians gathers at a local bar to play some seldom heard tunes. They beat bodhrans, blow tin whistles, and strum bouzoukis. And, if the spirit moves them, they'll even dance a ceili. 
The musicians call themselves Seamaisin (pronounced HAY-muh-shin) and they play Irish music. Every Tuesday, the six-member band fills tiny Club 23 with jigs, reels, and hornpipes. With a brogue thick as smoke, they sing about travelling pot fixers and drinking whiskey. 
The group finished its first recording., "Joseph Harvey's Fiddle Was Left in the Rain," just before Christmas. They invaded the house of band member John Kennedy's father and spent two weeks getting everything just so, eating spaghetti and playing cards when they weren't recording. The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstor.e has "Joseph Harvey's Fiddle" on tape, and store officials swear that "it's just a matter of time before they get around to putting the album on the shelves." 
John Kennedy, who sings and plays both the tin whistle and the guitar, is Seamaisfn's unofficial leader. He has been with the band since its beginning four years ago. After receiving his Ph.D. in economics from Notre Dame in 1989, he became the Arts and Letters Computing Coordinator. 
"It's difficult in America to have a job and play music full time," says Kennedy. He says that playing music until 2 a.m. on Tuesday makes going to work on Wednesday a less-than-cheerful proposition~ 
"If I could make this kind of money just playing Irish music, life would be heaven," says Kennedy. As it is, he plays a mild-mannered Macintosh repair man by day, then turns folksy Irish troubadour at night-at least on Thesdays. 
Kennedy says that he enjoys listening to "absolutely anything I can get my hands on." He admits to some Latin and African influences in his song writing. He also concedes that he still has much to learn about Irish music. 
"In another two or three ye.ars I'll be able to 

Mary Branick, a Notre Dame senior, occasionally dances a ceili when she's not playing the harp. 
call myself an Irish musician," says Kennedy. "I was in Ireland over the summer, and I wouldn't even pull my whistle out." 
E 
ileen McLane leads a double life similar to Kennedy's. Besides singing and playing the guitar for Seamaisin, she works part time for a local day care center. And when she's not stopping other people's kids from swallowing Legos, she's busy taking care of her own children. McLane has four kids, rangin.g from ages seven to 20. 


"At home, I have to act responsible with the children," says McLane, "but when I play music, it makes me feel younger." McLane explains that she often teases Kennedy about being "Dad" because of his more reserved demeanor, while she sees herself as the "mischievous, unruly teenager." 
Along with her mischievous role, McLane says she also enjoys the unusual audience mix that she performs for. 
"I especially like the way locals and students both come in," says McLane. "The mix gets along wonderfully." 
U 
nlike Kennedy and McLane who have been with the band from the start, Mary Branick is a newcomer. An English major, Branick has played the harp for Seamaisin for a year. She took up the concert harp in high school and learned Irish dance when she was 5. Branick also spends many of her summers in Ireland. 
"The group has become a second family for me," says Branick. She says she enjoys everything about playing with the group. "It's not just the music, it's the Irish pub atmosphere. It's the one time of the week that my different groups of friends get together," she says. 
McLane echoes that sentiment, but warns, "Don't let the Irish part throw you. It's the kind of music that invites you to celebrate. If you like to have a good time, it's the place to be." 
About the music Seamaisfn plays, Kennedy just has a question: "How long has it been since you've heard something that sounds really new to you?" 
Besides Kennedy, McLane and Branick, Seamaisin consists of Tim Fischer on guitar, bouzouki and mandolin; Theresa Ramsby on fiddle; Steve Weymeyer on bodhran; and Scot Hendrick on the bones. 
If your life lacks a healthy dose of Irish music, the Michiana Folk Music Association is sponsoring a Seamaisin concert in the Centurv Center on April 12 (call 256-5236 for information), or just stop by Club 23 on any given Thesday. 
SCOREBOARD

Monday, February 17, 1992 page 15 

NHL STANDINGS  NBA STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  
WALES CONFERENCE  EASTERN CONFERENCE  
Patrick Division NY Rangers Washington New Jersey Pittsburgh NY Islanders Philadelphia Adams Division  W 37 33 31 26 23 21  L 19 20 t8 24 26 25  T 3 5 7 6 7 10  Pts 77 71 69 58 53 52  CF 233 246 216 240 210 171  Gil 190 197 171 219 225 187  Atlantic Division New York Boston Miami Philadelphia New Jersey Washington Orlando  W 3 1 29 24 24 2 1 1 7 13  L 1 B 21 27 27 3 0 3 3 38  Pet. .633 .580 .471 .471 .412 .340 .255  2 112 8 B 11 14 112 19  BASEBALL American League OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Named Reggie Jackson assistant to the president for community affairs. National League HOUSTON ASTROS-Agreed to terms with Craig Biggio, catcher, on a one-year contract.  
Montreal 34 Boston 27 Buffalo 22 Hartlord 16 Quebec 12 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division W  21 22 26 28 38 L  5 B 10 10 7 T  73 62 54 42 31 Pts  197 195 208 167 168 CF  149 194 2t6 192 233 Gil  Central Division Chicago Cleveland Detroit Atlanta Milwaukee Indiana Charlotte  42 32 29 25 24 22 16  9 16 22 25 26 30 34  .824 .667 .569 .500 .480 .423 .320  8 1/2 13 16 112 17 112 20 112 25 112  PmSBURGH PIRATE5-Agreed to terms with Doug Drabek, pitcher, on a one-year contract. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with Bob Tewksbury, pitcher, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National Buketball Association  
Detroit  31  1 B  9  71  249  193  WESTERN CONFERENCE  CHARLOTTE HORNET5-Signed Cedric  
St. Louts 26 23 Chicago 25 2 I Minnesota 25 26 Toronto 20 32 Smythe Division Vancouver 3 0 1 9 Winnipeg 2 4 2 3 Los Angeles 2 3 2 2 Edmonton 2 5 2 7 Calgary 2 2 2 7 San Jose 13 41 Saturday's Games Philadelphia B. Edmonton 5 New Jersey 4, Hanford 1 Detroit 11, San Jose 1 N.Y. Islanders 3, Vancouver t Minnesota 5, Pittsburgh 2 Quebec 4, Montreal 4, fie Winnipeg 3, Toronto t St. Louts 7, Calgary 2 Los Angeles 6, Washington 3 Sunday's Games Late Games Not Included  9 11 5 5 B tt 13 7 B 4  6t 61 55 45 68 59 59 57 52 30  201 182 187 159 199 t77 206 215 207 150  t92 169 I 91 207 175 173 215 222 208 265  Midwest Division W L Utah 34 t B San Antonio 28 21 Houston 26 25 Denver 19 31 Dallas 15 35 Minnesota 9 40 Pacific Divialon Pont and 35 14 Golden State 32 15 Phoenix 33 18 LA Lakers 29 21 Seattle 26 25 LA Clippers 24 25 Sacramento 1 7 3 2 Saturday'• Games Cleveland 128, New Jersey 92 Indiana 117, Minnesota 101 Chicago 99, New York 98 Dallas 103, Houston 99 Lhah 106, Denver 93 Phoenix 124, Washington 98  Pet. .654 .571 .510 .380 .300 .184 .714 .681 .647 .580 .510 .490 .347  4 112 7 112 14 18 23 112 2 3 6 112 10 11 18  Hunter, guard, to a 1 0-day contract. Continental Basketball Association CBA-Suspended Dave Everett, center, and Trag Lee, forward, of the Fon Wayne Fury for failure to abide by the league's substance abuse policy. SIOUX FALLS SKY FORCE-Signed Male lavaronl, forward, lor the remainder of the season and named him assistant coach. FOOTBALL National Football League LOS ANGELES RAIDER5-Agreed to terms with Aundray Bruce, linebacker, on a one­year contract. HOCKEY National Hockey League NEW JERSEY DEVIL5-Recalled Chad Erickson, goahender, from Utica of the American Hockey League. SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Anurs lrbe, goaltender, from Kansas City of the International Hockey League. COLLEGE  
New Jersey 4, N.Y. Rangers 2 Hanford at Buffalo, (n) Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, (n) Edmonton at Toronto, (n) Calgary at Chicago, (n)  Golden State 140, Seattle 122 Sunday's G11111ea Late Games Not Included Detroit 90, Philadelphia 83 Orlando 118, Milwaukee 104  COLGATE-Named Kevin Callahan assistant head coach and secondary coach; Dick Biddle defensive coordinator and linebacker coach; and Ed Argast offensive coordinator.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All ctassifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Lost: I left a pair of wool mittens FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM Cheryl, Gennie, Val, & La, Dear Bertha, 
I NOTICES with brown leather palms in Rm. 11B Fraternities, sororities, student INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. O'Shag and now they're gone!! I clubs. Earn up to $1000 in one Good rates. Save Money. Call me Thanks for making my birthdawg I am inclined to decline your offer to really love these mittens and need week. Plus receive a $1000 bonus for a quote 9:30-6:00, so great! Y'all are awesome! cuddle, for although I would like to 
USED TEXTBOOKS! to have them back. If you know yourself. And a FREE WATCH just 2B9-1993. Office near campus. cuddle, I would not like to drown. I Buy & Sell Books anything about them, please call for calling 1-B00-932-052B. Ext. 65. Love, am, however, interested in meeting Pandora's Books Kristine @ X3352. Ween your 42" friends. 3 blks. from ND ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time 233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun mother seek newborn to join family. Love. 
02120 Going to Hartford, CT area We promise your baby love and Hey Sri-
Found: Blue and green London Fog for Spring Break? I need a understanding, a good education & Brendan TYPING AVAILABLE jacket in my car at the Commons on ride. Will help w/ gas and fun. Supportive grandparents. Roses are red, 2B7-40B2. Monday nile (around 3 a.m.). tolls. Donna: 2B4-5191 Legal. Call Bev & Howard Violets are blue, 
If yours please call Nancy at 257-COLLECT 914-235-3917. Diss that betty, BOO YEARS AGO, THE BRITISH B534. And get a clue! ARRIVED IN IRELAND. 
ANNUAL PHON-A-THON NEED RIDE TO COCOA BEACH, THEY NEVER LEFT. benefits Woman's Care Center FLA. OR VACINITY FOR SPRING It's Coming! FEBRUARY 10-13 and BREAK. MUST ARRIVE BY 3-B. Hey, how 'bout that glorious picture NORTHERN IRELAND FEBRUARY 17-20 from WILL PAY FOR GAS. LYNN AT of AWARENESS GROUP MEETING 
I 
6 to 9 pm each night. Lost: an AIWA walkman with yellow 237-19B5. Mahr Brannick, the Irish wonder of 7:00PM MONDAY 2117. Development Office in the headphones. It was in a clear SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA the MONT. THEATRE Admin. Bldg plastic bag with a white DETEX. NO BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, world !I! You're looking more like LAFORTUNE if interested, call Michelle at questions !II! Need a ride to D.C. Met. area 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, your ALL OPINIONS WELCOME 255-4595 call Chris 233-5BB2 Will Split gas & tolls Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & guitar-strummin mentor every day\ Call Bill at x4141 Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-B00-FIND OUT WHY THE IRISH ARE 423-5264. FIGHTING. TODD K. If you are a NU SKIN distrbutr LOST: pair of grey wool gloves; left I don't prescribe to my friend's
FORRENT
please call Scott x153B in 120 O'Shag after 10:10 Arthur. That's the way it goes. I guess ... theory about dates either. How BOO years ago the world Legend class. Please call Pete about my formal, 2-22? was flat. Whoopdie do. X1676 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY YOUR S+P PAL 
219-291-7153. Waking Nose, Book in the Head. (plaid flannel rules) and Two Winds, did you ever wonder why pain 
02120 couldn't be just a little more LOST: LADY'S BLACK SHEER Found: Men's glasses at wild FOR SALE May your horses run fast to the pleasing? hang nails could be more SCARF WITH ROSES. TAKEN Howard party on 1/25. Call buffalo. we must smoke the peace STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA fun, probably FROM BOOKBAG RACK IN Bevo x255B pipe. Info on semester. year. graduate, HUDDLE. NO QUESTIONS 5 year old Mobile Home located in summer and internship programs in ASKED. PLEASE CALL SHEILA AT new Parik (Willow Club Estates) 1.5 Leeks in the Night. Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and 255-7684 BEFORE 3 PM OR WANTED miles from Notre Dame. 2 bedroom Melbourne. Programs start at To the two brunettes and the blonde 
LOST/FOUND 
l 
RETURN TO HUDDLE DELl. with box bay windows. and $3520. Call 1-BOO-B7B-3696. from the taller ROB. cathedral ceiling. All kitchen DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO I have a LARGE, not small, 
A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE I appliances (including dishwasher) O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. question. Just how voluptuous are LOST GOLD FILIGREE HEART Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. optional washer and dryer. Call 277-SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM SUMMER JOBS we talking about here? I do have my BRACELET OF GREAT Boston/NY City. Super kids, great 31BO. ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS standards. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ 1-800-B33-5555. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS CALL KATARA W. @2965 IF staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR FOUND. REWARD PENDING! arts/crafts, all land/water sports, CHEAP! FBVU.S. SEIZED LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-B00-7B6-VOTE 
fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 ALICIA, B373 PETROVIC shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, B6VW....................................$50 CANNON photography, computers, rocketry, B7 Mercedes ...................... $1 00 I HAVE DECIDED TO SPARE YOU! FAHEY 
LOST ONE GOLD FILIGREE guitar, radio, video, yearbook, 65 Mustang .......................... $50 The Lizard King lives on I Down with DIFINO HEART LINK BRACELET OF newspaper, wilderness, woodworik, Choose from thousands starting (BRRRRRRRRRRFFFFFFFII\1111111!1 the Crustaceans! Class of '94 Officers GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF RN, morel $25. II) WE'RE IT ... FOUND OR YOU KNOW WHO 6/20-B/22. Call/write CAMP FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals AND THATS THAT. HAS, PLEASE CALL KATARA W. EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Details B01-379-2929 Copyright @2965. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. Eastchester, NY 10707. #IN11KJC His eyes OPEN !I!!! Irish Music and Dance REWARD PENDING! B00/955-CAMP. Every Tuesday at Club 23 HEY GEORGIE­
SEAMAISIN A CLASSIFIED FOR YOU !Ill TICKETS "Let's go Greyhound on spring 
break. 50% off anywhere we go. Alright, BEON T.V. Restrictions apply. Call 2B7-6541" I still don't have my glasses. Many needed for commercials. NEED 3 UCLA TIX CALL BLAIR raft, you are missed. 
!P'Illlll1ftm' Jnm,IH] 

I've dropped my classes, Now hiring all ages. For casting 277-2695 
~ 

And I'm starting to scam on info., Call fat (615) 779-7111 Ext. T-167B. We are a young, happily married, 
~mm~®!lll:!ID> 

Help mel financially secure, couple longing 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
lF'mllm~ 1l'IMml 

NEED 5 UCLA GA TIX for a baby to nurture and share in LaFortune Student Center 
efreahmenta, Papa John's Pizza
Gold wire frame, black case. CALL AMY 2909 our love & lives. Let's help each We're Open Everydayll! Dave. x21B7 $350.00/DAY PROCESSING other and give your baby a bright 
Karaoke SlDf-Along, Sweet DJ 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL Mure. Please call collect and get to 
Castle Point Clubhouse 

YOU. NO EXPERIENCE HELPI I Need 4 UCLA know us 70B-246-1 095. 
Must be 2 I Years of Age-NECESSARY. 1-B00-255-0242. B-Balllixs!l 
NO E.xceotlons 

LOST: 21B Blue ND ID pouch with Mimi 284-5158 Campus band looking for Call Lance DaWIIOD@ 271-1681
Fla driver license, ID, Detex, and Ride to Pittsburgh (WVU). experienced guitarist call keys. If found, PLEASE call Lynn Need ride to Ll or Area for S.B.Can 2121 -2123. Need help with driving Sue 284-5227 Mike 257-B609 x1260. leave 3/6. Anne x25BO and gas. Liz x4692
1 PERSONALS 

page 16 
United Team wins thriller vs Canada 
French, Czechs also victorious 
MERIBEL, France (AP) ­
Canada's third-period come­
back against the Unified Team 
didn't win the game. It earned 
something more valuable -the 
top spot in its Olympic hockey 
group. 
The former Soviet Union, 
which needed to win by three 
goals to overtake the 
Canadians, pulled out a 5-4 vic­
tory Sunday night in one of the 
most Intense games of the 
tournament. 
In Its opening medal round 
game Tuesday, Canada will play 
the easiest competition from the 
other group, probably Germany 
or Italy. The Unified Team, 
which finished second, and 
Czechoslovakia, the third-place 
team, will face stiffer 
competition. 
Third-period goals by Dave 
Tippett and Dave Hannan 
erased a 4-2 Unified Team lead, 
and Sean Burke's brilliant goal­
tending -turning aside 4 7 
shots -kept the Canadians 
close enough to reach their ob­
jective, despite Igor 
Kravtchouk's winning goal with 
7:16 left. 
"Our goal was to end up ftrst in the pool," Hannan said. "You can look at it as we did lose the game. We didn't want to lose. But we met our goal." 
In Sunday's other games, France clinched the fourth and final playoff spot in the group with a 4-2 win over Norway that eliminated Switzerland and Norway. Czechoslovakia then beat Switzerland 4-2. 
Canada, the United Team and Czechoslovakia all ended preliminary-round play with 4-1 records. All are 1-1 In games among themselves. 
Canada won the next tiebreaker, goal differential in those games. It scored three more goals than its opponents, the Unified Team was even, and Czechoslovakia was outscored by three. 
Germany (1-3) would be the fourth-place team in the other group If it beats Poland (0-4) Monday. If Poland wins, Italy (1­
3) would get in If It beats Finland (2-1-1). If all three contenders finish at 1-4, the goal-differential tiebreaker would be used. 
The Unified Team and Canada followed a simpler formula Sunday night -play as hard as you can -then try even harder. 
"This game was emotional for both sides," Unified Team assistant coach Igor Dimltriev said. "It was a matter of pres­tige." 
"It seems like when we play the Unified Team it brings out the best in our players," Canada 
IllAlU1~M~NI~====~ 
l:CLUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPUCATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPUCA TION DEADUNE IS FEBRUARY 21: 1992 
assistant Wayne Fleming said. 
"It's disappointing because you 
play hard, but we're proud of 
the way our players played." 
Canada's loss left the United 
States (4-0) as the only team 
that has won all its games. The 
final U.S. preliminary game is 
Monday night against Sweden 
(3-0-1). The Americans would 
finish first and face France if 
they win. Sweden and Finland 
would finish second or third, in 
either order. 
If Sweden wins, it captures 
the group, the United States 
would be second and Finland 
third. A tie gives the division to 
the Americans. 
The Unified Team's winning 
goal was scored by Kravtchouk 
after he got the puck at the red 
line, sped between Canadians 
Joe Juneau and Dave Archibald 
and charged straight at Burke. 
He cut to his right and back­
handed a 5-footer over Burke's 
left shoulder. 
"Our coaches did not make 
such an assignment to our play­
ers, to win by three or four 
goals," Dimitriev said. "Our 
main task was not to lose the 
game." 
"We tried to win the game," 
Canada's Kent Manderville said, 
"but not at the expense of losing 
first place." 
Dmitri Mironov scored first, but Canada went ahead 2-1 on goals by Archibald and Eric Lindros. Nikolai Borstchevski, Sergei Petrenko and Kravtchouk gave the Unified Team a 4-2 lead with 5:27 left in the second period. 
For the French, it was a great day for hockey. Even the prospect of a bad day just ahead couldn't change that. 
A nation that's wild about skiing but ho-hum about hockey qualified for the medal round for the first time, treating its fans to the win over winless Norway. 
"It means a lot," France coach Kjell Larsson said. "This is the ftrst time we are on tele­vision live, and it's fantastic for French ice hockey." 
Now France (2-3) must play Sweden or the United States in the medal-round opener Tuesday night. 
The medal round was ex­panded from four teams in 1984 to six in 1988 to eight in 1992. Twelve teams started each of those tournaments. 
In its four other Olympics, France was fifth twice, 14th once and 11th in 1988, when it lost its opener to Sweden 13-2. This time it was seeded 11th but surprised Canada in the opener, losing only 3-2, and was impressive in four games. 
The Observer 
VAL D'ISERE, France (AP) ­Marc Girardelli broke his Olympic jinx, and he did it without breaking his neck. He might have done that, too, if that's what it had taken to win his frrst Orympic medal. 
A four-time World Cup overall winner, Girardelli cap­tured the silver in the men's Olympic super-giant slalom Sunday after falling in both the downhill and the downhill half of the combined. 
"I lost everything in the downhills, and after that, I didn't care if I failed," he said. "I just wanted to be fast, so fast that I could not stand it anymore. 
"It was really a victory for me even though I didn't win the race. Now I feel much more comfortable." 
A slip at the fifth of 39 gates on the La Face course probably cost him the gold, which went to Kjetil Andre Aamodt of Norway. Aamodt led a 1-3-4 Norwegian super-G finish in 1 minute, 
13.04 seconds. Girardelli, who skis for Luxembourg, had 1:13.77. 
Jan Einar Thorsen, who won the downhill part of the com-

Sununer ded 
llelp.N~~nrirn 
in~j\1·~·-­
Mexico, Ecuador, Para&uay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 
Work • Share 
• Live • Learn 
You can have a summer full of adventure and personal growth whole improving health for the people pf Latin America. 
Write or call: Amigos de las Americas 5618 Star Lane Houston, Texas 77057 
800/231-7796 713ns2-5290 

Applicali.an detdliDe: Mareb 1, 1992 

bined, was third in 1:13.83, fol­
lowed by countryman Ole 
Christian Furuseth, a slalom 
specialist, in 1:13.87. 

While the Girardelli jinx was 
over, Frenchman Franck 
Piccard extended another one. 
The defending Olympic su­per-G champion, Piccard fell seven gates from the top when he got his skis stuck in some soft snow. Fifteen seconds into his run, he was out of the race, and still no Alpine skier has won the same event at two Olympics. 
Attack was exactly what Aamodt did. His training derailed by a bout with mononucleosis in December and unable to start in the combined because of flu, the 20-year-old Norwegian was one of the biggest surprises of an Olympic Alpine competition full of them. 
Patrick Ortlieb of Austria won the men's downhill as an outsider last Sunday, and two days later, unheralded Josef Polig of Italy won the men's combined. The biggest surprise of all might have been Kerrin Lee-Gartner's victory for Canada in the women's downhill 
~ ~  ATTENTION ALL  
~  CLUB PRESIDENTS  
~  
~  
~  
~  The 1992...93 Registration and  
~  Budget packets will be  
~  available to be picked up from the  
~  Club Coordination Council office  
~  (room 206 LaFortune) on  
~  Feb. 17 ...  Feb.19.  
~  The packets must be completed  
~  and returned by Wed. March 4.  

~No exceptions!! All social service ~ & graduate clubs must also ~ pick up their forms from ~ the CCC office. 
Saturday. 

This one had to be a close 
second since no Norwegian had 
won an Olympic medal in Alpine 
skiing since the legendary Stein 
Eriksen won the giant slalom in 
1952. 

Starting third, as a heavy mist floated across La Face, Aamodt charged hard. The edges of his skis dug deeply into the snow as he challenged each gate, each turn. Snow streamed behind him like the contrails of a jet. 
"I was nervous," he said, "but I had to go for it. I had to forget about my nerves." 
Girardelli flashed out of the gate in Aamodt's wake, the No. 4 starter. 
"I attacked maybe a little too much at the top," Girardelli said. "I made a little mistake, but I saw a lot of racers make bigger mistakes at the same place." 
Now, at least, the pressure is off. Or is it? Next: the giant slalom on Tuesday and another chance for gold if he can stand up to the challenge of Italian Alberto Tomba, a double gold medalist four years ago at Calgary. 


I 
I 
Reflections on University Governance 
Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
The University of Notre Dame was founded in late November, 1842 by Reverend Edward Sarin, C.S.C. The University was officially chartered by a special act of the Legislature of the State of Indiana on January 15, 1844. Although it called itself a University from its foundation, it had a minimum collegiate curriculum in its early decades. From 1842 till 1967 it was owned by the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
In 1967, governance of the University was transferred from the Congregation of Holy Cross, Indiana Province to a predominantly lay Board of Trustees. In 1967 the Statutes of the University created a body whose members were to be known as The Fellows. They have and exercise all power and authority granted by that certain act of the Legislature of the State of Indiana approved on January 15, 1844. The Fellows of the University are a self­perpetuating body, twelve in number, six of whom are members of the Priests Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Indiana Province and six of whom are lay persons. Seven of the Fellows hold the office ex officio. In many ways the establishment of the Fellows was intended to be a protective mechanism for the University. The duties of the Fellows include: electing the Trustees of the University; adopting and amending the bylaws of the University, provided at least two-thirds of the Fellows concur in each and every such action; approval of sale or transfer of a substantial part of the physical properties of the University; maintaining the central character of the University as a Catholic Institution; making full use of the unique skills and dedication of the members of the Priests of Holy Cross, Indiana Province; and maintaining a policy of non-discrimination on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin. 
All Fellows of the University are also Trustees. The Fellows meet annually or whenever called into a special session. It Is present practice for the Fellows to meet at the time of each Trustee meeting. 
Except for those powers Specifically reserved for the Fellows of the University, all powers for the governance of the University are vested in a Board of Trustees which consists of a maximum of fifty numbers. The bylaws of the University specify the duties, terms of office, committee structure and responsibilities of the Trustees. Presently, the Trustees meet three times a year. Among the Committees of the Board are an Academic Affairs Committee, a Student Affairs Committee and a Finance/Investment Committee. Among the responsibilities of the Trustees are the election of all the Officers of the University and the approval of the annual budget. 
The bylaws of the University specify the responsibility of the various officers of the University and establish the Committee structure of the Board. 
The academic articles constitute the document by which academic government is entrusted to the faculty, the students, and the officers of the administration. They specify the general terms of shared governance and presuppose the spirit of willing cooperation and commitment to the fundamental identity and purposes of the University as a Catholic University. Any changes in the academic articles require approval of the Board of Trustees. 
The academic articles speak first of the executive administration and the academic officers. They then move on to speak of the faculty. There are de!ailed descriptions of the various ranks of faculty and the procedures for appointment, reappointment and promotion. This section concludes with a discussion of grounds for dismissal, terms of contract and grievance procedures. In Article 4 of the Academic Articles there is a discussion of the organization of the faculty. There are ten university-wide committees 
specified and in addition college councils and 
departmental committees. The tenor of the academic articles is that the faculty participation in the various departmental committees, college councils and 
University committees will be the primary way in which governance is shared with the administration of the University. 
PAID OBSERVER ADVERTISEMENT 
By history and tradition faculty involvement directly in governance tends to be highest at the departmental, center and institute level. This is partly a function of the manageable size of these units. It is also determined by the commonality of background and interest of faculty who work together closely from year-to-year. Decisions about academic priorities, hiring and promotion are exercised most consistently at this level. The respective college councils can also be an effective mechanism for charting the development of the various colleges and the Law School. These groups tend to meet less frequently and to concentrate on matters of more generalized 
concern. 
I would like to focus my attention on two of the university-wide committees-The Faculty Senate and the Academic Council. In the academic articles it is specified that the Faculty Senate will consist of 53 members of the faculty. These are to be divided proportionately among the various academic units of the University. It is the charge of the Faculty Senate to formulate faculty opinion and, when appropriate, to bring matters to the executive committee of the Academic Council for further consideration. 
The Faculty Senate is free to determine its own committee structure and to set its own agenda. In the course of its history the Faculty Senate has served a necessary, if sometimes, frustrating, purpose. Issues tend to wax and wane from year-to-year. Through its presentations to the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees the Faculty Senate has sought to represent the academic concerns of the faculty. 
The biggest internal criticism of the Faculty Senate is that it does not have effective power. It has been accused of being a debating society or a place in which grievances of the moment can be aired. Others have wondered whether the very strongest faculty had been attracted to service on the Faculty Senate. Many of the issues that are taken up have focused on faculty complaints and/or benefits questions. 
Leadership of the Faculty Senate in recent years has met fairly regularly with the President and Provost of the University. Overall, these informal and formal sessions have led to fruitful results. On occasion, there has been a failure of communication about the rationale of certain decisions or the lack of action about a called-for change. The Faculty Senate of its nature contains no students, no administrators and no staff. While it has university-wide concerns! it does not necessarily represent the widest perspective of the University community. 
The Academic Council is composed of a total of 36 numbers-14 ex officio administrators (Including the chair of the Faculty Senate), 18 elected faculty members and 4 elected students. It Is chaired by the President of the University and the agenda is set by the executive committee which is elected annually (except for 3 members who are appointed annually by the President). The principal functions of the Council are to determine general academic policies and regulations of the University; to consider the recommendations of the Graduate Council; to approve major changes in the requirements for admission to and graduation from the colleges and schools and in the program of study offered by colleges, schools and departments; to authorize the establishment, modification, the discontinuance of any academic organization of the University; and to provide for review, amendment, and final interpretation of the academic articles, without prejudice to article 5. The decisions of the Council are by majority vote and are subject to the approval of the President. In 1984 a new version of the academic articles was approved that reduced the academic council to two-thirds of its former size. This was intended to facilitate discussion in a smaller body. 
By tradition the Academic Council focuses primarily on academic policies and changes of academic structure. It has proven effective in evaluating curricular changes, academic restructuring, and the establishment of, or changes in, University policies. The structure of the actual meetings has tended to attend primarily to texts and to rationales for proposed changes. Frequently, the groundwork has been done by some other vehicle of the University. 
One of the criticisms of the Academic Council is that its size and formality have inhibited free and wide­ranging discussion of pertinent academic concerns. It has also been seen by some as too controlled by the academic administrators present even though they constitute significantly less than one-half of the voting membership. From another point of view the Academic Council is almost all faculty with a few students and non-academic administrators thrown in. This is most believable if one considers faculty members who happen to be academic administrators among the list of faculty participants in the Council. One could argue the case that there are proportionately few students and no staff as voting members of the Council. Periodically and with varying degrees of vehemence the Faculty Senate has called for a greater-faculty role in the governance of the University. This is phrased in a variety of ways. It is pictured as the next stage in the gradual evolution of Notre Dame as a mature, modern university. Or it is pointed out that most of our peer institutions have mechanisms which seem to offer a more decisive and regular faculty role In governance than the Academic Council allows for. In the most negative terms Notre Dame is seen as too authoritarian or paternalistic or centralized in its present governance structure. It is said that the faculty need to be consulted more regularly and widely and that decisions need to be explained before and after the fact. 
In an October 8, 1991, meeting of the Academic Council a report was submitted by the faculty committee on governance with proposed alterations to the Academic Council. This proposal was discussed at that meeting. And then tabled. At the December 4, 1991, meeting of the Academic Council I indicated my opposition to a number of the key changes being proposed In the Academic Council and Indicated why. At that time I also proposed in a tentative fashion the need for a new entity which could provide a forum in which faculty, students, staff and administration could come together to discuss In some organized and representative fashion matters at the heart of our mission as a Catholic University. I suggested that the Colloquy for the Year 2000 would be a good place to discuss such a mechanism and how to go about establishing it. In fact, the Colloquy itself might be a kind of model of what is being envisaged. The goals for this new entity would include: better communication, more widespread consultation, healthy and productive interchange and consensus formation. Unlike the Faculty Senate it would be composed of a broad cross-section of the University community. Unlike the Academic Council it would not be primarily concerned with formal approval of academic structures and policies. Rather, it would be a context within which most Important dimensions of our common life could be discussed openly and freely. In conclusion, I think we are doing well overall as a University community but we can do better. There are certain aspects of Notre Dame which are distinctive if not unique. Foremost among these is our Catholic identity. This must be preserved meaningfully at all costs. 
I personally am deeply committed to consultation and conversation. On the other hand, I think that we have benefited from having strong faculty exercising major administrative responsibilities. In the midst of what is a healthy and thriving University we need to assure that we do not lose our core values, and the fundamental realities that bind us together. As Notre Dame grows larger and more complex it can become too distant and impersonal or, in one sense of the term, too professional. That is why I believe we need to consider the establishment of a third university­wide mechanism in addition to the Faculty Senate and the Academic Council. We need a forum, a process for broad based consultation and discussion about the most important things. This matter is presently entrusted to one of the subcommittees of the Colloquy. I fully expect that the final report will Include some recommendation in this regard. In the meantime, a successful Colloquy will establish a strong momentum toward this Increased consultation. 
-February 24,1992 
1 page 18 The Observer Monday, February 17, 1992 I 
Celts and Pistons win I I #32 retired; Magic might not be 
I 
I I 
I ~ I 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­Magic Johnson's brilliant NBA career -which he says might not be over -was recognized Sunday as the Los Angeles Lakers retired his jersey at halftime of their game against the Boston Celtics. 
''I'm looking forward to playing in the Olympics. I hope if I do decide to come back you won't be upset if we do this all over again," Johnson said at the conclusion of the emotional 45­minute ceremony. 
Johnson was honored a week after his Most Valuable Player performance in the NBA All­Star game, a 29-minute effort in which he had 25 points, nine assists and five rebounds. 
It was the only game Johnson has played in since he announced his retirement on Nov. 7 because he had tested positive for the virus that causes AIDS. His current plans call for him to return as a player for the United States in the Summer Olympics at Barcelona, Spain. 
"People ask me all the time, what do I miss most about playing?" Johnson said. "It's not the playing part I miss the most, it's just being one of the boys. 
"You never know how great it is to be one of 12 guys," Johnson said, his voice cracking with emotion. "You work for eight months and try to be 
st ltdcnts LllCd 
liS 11 1.. 
Jl£!Ml!ll[c;l£ liD£\llil)A\~ )k~ 
~~ 
~.vv-N!,. 
INCLUDES 
AOUNOTRIP AIIUARL 
C.RtAT HOllL ACCOW.!Op"li(JN~ • ROUNDTRIP' AIRM>RT lltA-.~rtRS' All HOTll tA•lS HRVIU < HAIH.l!. 
Af.o CRATUITI(S' 
PlUS -.\UCH .LIOR( • 
rescryc now! 
1· 800-331·3136 
"'c~tl('l
:istt; ,
'-t-...:,! ...... 
l.'"ltrltOIISOCitfy 
c•fro~tiAI!tnH 
AmericanAirlines· 
lnuodhm;:f/•'f~Lifm U/J'I•Qt•­
airJamaica~ 


champions. I have special memories of every team I played on. I think it's not the team, but the players them­selves. 
"We sweated, fought to­gether, we lost together and we won together." 
Johnson, 32, wore No. 32 for the Lakers for 12 seasons. He led them to five NBA champi­onships and to the league finals on four other occasions. 
He has been selected as the NBA's Most Valuable Player three times and MVP of the NBA Finals three times. In addition, he's the league's career assists leader. 
Johnson joined Jerry West (No. 44), Elgin Baylor (No. 22), Wilt Chamberlain (No. 13) and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (No. 33) as Lakers who have had their jerseys retired and displayed high above the court at the 
Forum.  All  were  present  
Sunday.  
While  Abdul-Jabbar  ad­ 

dressed the sellout crowd of 17,505, tears streamed down Johnson's cheeks. 
"There's a whole lot of emo­tion in this moment," Abdul­Jabbar said. "It was a long time ago we welcomed this young man on the court. He's taught us a lot. All of our lives are touched by him. 
"The most important thing 
ize I was having a good time. That's kind of difficult some times, you know, You get caught up in the difficult part of your job. 
"Thank you Earvin, I love you, good luck." The two embraced with Johnson in tears. 
"Kareem was like my big brother who taught me all about life and taught me how to be a professional basketball player instead of just being a basketball player, to be a pro," Johnson said. "I never dreamed in my life that I would be up there near any of them." 
He referred to the wall 

for me is Earvin made me real-•w..-.11111111w..-.M~..-.M'NW~ 
~~ ND-SMC 

~--~C., STUDENTS
f,~O.~  19th Annual Program  
~~  ROME  
LONDON  June 14-July 13  
May 20-June 19  Travel in France,  
Travel in Ireland,  Germany, and  

Scotland, and France Switzerland 
Courses offered in ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
MEETING Monday Feb. 17 
6:30pm Carroll Hall, SMC *Free Pizza **Past student and facu~y participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­The Los Angeles Lakers rallied after a stirring halftime tribute to Magic Johnson, but they couldn't make up for a poor first half, losing 114-107 to the Boston Celtics on Sunday. 
After trailing by as many as 22 points in the second quarter and beginning the second half down 63-47, the Lakers closed to 104-103 with three minutes remaining in the game. 
But they went cold -as they had been in the first half -in the closing minutes and the Celtics pulled away. 
Robert Parish had 21 points, 18 in the first half, and 11 rebounds for Boston, which ended a three-game losing skid. Kevin McHale and Reggie Lewis added 19 points each for Boston. 
James Worthy led the Lakers, who've now lost three straight, with 24 points, Sedale Threatt had 22 and Sam Perkins 21. 
After Worthy's basket cut the margin to 104-103 with 
3:11 remaining, Lewis went on to score four points in the clos­ing minutes, while Dee Brown had five for the Celtics, all on free throws. 
Pistons 90, 76ers 83 
PHILADELPHIA -Orlando Woolridge scored a season­high 34 points and Dennis Rodman grabbed 26 rebounds as Detroit beat Philadelphia. 
Woolridge hit 16 of 21 shots and scored 24 points in the second half when the Pistons pulled away for their first vic­tory at Philadelphia in nearly three years. They had lost three straight at the Spectrum. 
Charles Barkley, with 24 points and 17 rebounds, led the Sixers, who lost their third straight. 
Magic 118, Bucks 104 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Jerry Reynolds scored 21 points and led a 10-2 fourth-quarter spurt that helped Orlando hold off Milwaukee for the expansion team's first victory in 10 games against the Bucks. 
The victory also snapped a three-game losing streak for Orlando, which led 55-42 at halftime and opened the third period with a 9-2 run. 
The loss was the 10th straight on the road for the Bucks, who haven't won away from home since beating Minnesota 92-91 on Jan. 2. Dale Ellis scored 22 second­half points, but Milwaukee couldn't get any closer than six points down the stretch. 
Hornets 126, Miami 1 09 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.­Charlotte never trailed in a game interrupted by two fights and two ejections, getting 28 points and 13 rebounds from Larry Johnson to beat Miami. 
The Hornets jumped ahead 14-1 and held the Heat without a field goal for the game's first four minutes. Glen Rice's layup with 7:45 left in the first quarter broke the Heat's drought and made the score 14-3. 
Charlotte led 40-18 after one quarter and 62-43 at halftime behind 15 points from Johnson. Miami got no closer than 14 in the second half. 
Johnny Newman scored 20 and Dell Curry 19 as Charlotte had seven players in double figures in winning for the fourth time in five games. 
Miami, which also had seven players in double figures, was led by Bimbo Coles with 16 points and Rice with 15. 
where his jersey joined those of Baylor, West, Chamberlain and Abdul-Jabbar. 
Larry Bird, sidelined because ' of a bad back, attended the ceremony and received a stand­ing ovation from the crowd. 

lJpcoming Events 
MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 

HOURS: MON·FRI 8:00·5:30 Theories of Conflict Resolution 
A Symposium 
SAT 8:00·3:0• 

Friday, February 21, 1992 l..uw School CourlnHnn 
2112 South Bend ,Avenu­

9:00.10:10 DAYLE E. SPENCER-'LESSONS FROM TilE FlEW OF INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT"
Appolntments If desired 

10:20.11:30 ROGER FISIIER -'COPING WITH CONFLICT:
272-6722 

WIIAT KIND OF 11iEORY MIGifT liEU'" 


DOUGV.S M. JOIINSTON-'RELIGION AND CONFLICT RESOLUTION" 
TilE IIONORABLE JOSEPI/ F. WEtS, JR.­

'ARE COURTS OBSOL~· 
GEORGE A. WPEZ • "TilE RELEVANCE OF DOMESTIC CONFLICT RESOUJTION TO INTERNATIONAL DISP!JTE SETTLEMENT: MYiliS AND REALITIES• 
Saturday, February 22, 1992 llesburgh c..,,.,. Audilorium 
JORGE CORREA -"DEALING WITii PAST HUMAN RIGifTS VIOLATIONS: mE CIIILEAN CASE AFTER DICTATORSHIP" 
10:20.11:30 PETER WAUENSTEEN-'GLOBAL PATIERNS .OF CONFLICT AND TilE ROLE OF TIIIRil PARTIES" 
ONORA O'NEill-'CAN REASON RF.SOLVE DISPUTES?" 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL
111111~N~!~o;!!;!~:: 
Monday, February 17, 1992 The Observer page 19 
Martina wins Slims title 

Track 
continued from page 24 
uals, but as a team. In the past, we really haven't been able to," said Bradley. 
On the men's side, the results. from the two-day meet were not as encouraging. Notre Dame finished seventh in the final standings behind event winner Eastern Michigan. Michigan State, Purdue, Northern Iowa, Iowa, and Michigan respec­tively. 
"We had some good things happen," said Piane. "It was a much better and deeper meet than it was last year ... 
After Friday's scoring the Irish were in fifth place due to the strong performances of sophomores Mike McWilliams and Todd Herman and senior Mike Borgos. Herman was one of the few Notre Dame individ­ual winners with a first-place in the high jump. McWilliams placed second in the 5,000-me­ter run behind Ken Wolters of Michigan State and Borgos fin­ished eighth in the 35 pound weight throw. 
In Saturday's competition, the Irish had two individuals winning titles. Junior John Coyle won his title in the 3,000­meter race with a time of 
8:09.53 which was a new Rec Building record in addition to a NCAA provisional qualifying time. Senior co-captain Brian Peppard won the individual title in the 1,000-meter run, an event in which he finished third last year. with another new Rec Building record time of 2:27.69. 
"This year, I had intentions to win (the 1,000). I took the atti­tude that this is it, my last ever Indiana Championships, and I'll go out there and do my best," said Peppard. 
The Distance medley relay 
CHICAGO (AP) -Martina Navratilova became tennis' all­time singles titles leader by beating Jana Novotna 7-6 (7-4), 4-6, 7-5 in the final of the Virginia Slims of Chicago on Sunday. 
Navratilova won her 158th career singles championship and 12th Chicago Slims crown. She and Chris Evert, who re­tired in 1989, had been tied with 157 singles titles. Jimmy Connors is the men's all-time leader with 109 singles cham­pionships. 
It looked like Novotna would pull off her second consecutive upset in this event before Navratilova fought back to fi­nally break the record she had shared with Evert. On Saturday Novotna rallied from a set down to beat top-seed Steffi Graf in a semifinal. 
The 23-year-old Novotna, 12 years younger than her oppo­nent, used a blazing serve and precise passing shots to take a 5-4 lead in the final set. Navratilova fought off four match points in the 10th game. 
team of Shawn Schneider, Miguel Conway, Peppard, and McWilliams finished second be­hind a team from Michigan State. The next highest placers for Notre Dame were freshmen sprinter Michael Miller, jumper Brian Headrick and senior sprinter Phil Casper. Miller had some big shoes to fill as heir to Rocket in the 55-meter dash. He finished in fifth place in the event as sophomore Dean Lytle placed ninth. Headrick turned in a sixth place finish in the triple jump while Caspar added a eighth place finish in the 300­meter dash to the Notre Dame scoring effort. 

Novotna, 0-6 lifetime against Navratilova, double faulted to lose service and angrily slammed her racquet into the net. Navratilova easily held ser­vice and took a 30-0 and 40-30 leads in the 11th game. The winning shot was a lob that fell just inside the back line as Novotna watched in despair. 
Novotna, the fastest server on the Slims tour, had 10 aces, one clocked at 105 mph. 
The winner earned $70,000 and the runnerup got $35,000. 
In the final set, Navratilova was broken in the opening game, which went to deuce five times. Novotna lost her service in Game 4, the beginning of four straight service breaks that had the young Czech ahead 4-3. 
Novotna went ahead 3-0 in the middle set after a pair of service breaks. She lost her serve in the next game but al­most broke back in the seventh, which went to deuce three times, and again in the ninth, which went to deuce twice. The young Czech slammed two aces past her opponent in the last game to tie the match. 
As the indoor season winds to a close and the NCAA champi­onships draw near, the men's track team is looking to qualify more runners for the season­ending meet. Currently, Coyle is the only Notre Dame runner who has qualified. 
"We don't really have a lot of people with qualifying times." said Peppard. "This weekend and next weekend, we need to improve and have more people qualify." 
Up next for the Irish is the Indiana Intercollegiate at Purdue University next week­end. 
matchup," Bayliss said. "Colin 6-2. experience," he said. said Bayliss. "I think everyone lives and dies with his serve. Louderback and Kalbas then Like most American tennis here liked what they saw. Four
Tennis 
Chuck is our best returner. It teamed to defeat the number players of his generation, of the nine matches were de­was strength against strength, three Irish doubles team of Zurcher grew up a devotee to cided by tiebreakers. So I think 
continued from page 24 
and something was going to Chris Wojtalik and Tom North 6-his country's loudest player, and there was great drama and still around with the more happen. One of them was going 3, 4-6, (7-5). his matchup with Fleming was great excitement, and a verypower-oriented games that are to win big." The number-two Irish doubles something special. high level of tennis. popular." At fifth-and sixth-string sin­team of Zurcher and Forsyth "McEnroe's has always been Hopefully, they (Legends) will 
In stark contrast to Mayer, gles, the Legends' qualifications earned a tough decision over my favorite player," Zurcher come back on a Friday night in Colin Dibley was long known as were suspicious, as Irish assis­Mayer and Dibley, 6-4, 6-7. (7-said. "It's an honor to play with the fall, before a football game." 
one of the most powerful play­tant coach Brian Kalbas and 5). guys like this; especially • • • ers in professional tennis. But Notre Dame women's coach Jay Forsyth's split with Mayer Fleming, who had something to Saturday's dual match was a Dibley's world-record serve was Louderback faced Mark Schmidt marked an interesting realiza­do with my idol." tuneup for this week's ITCA ineffective in his singles match and Ron Rosas, respectively. tion of childhood dreams. Bayliss hopes that the N a tiona! Indoor Team with Coleman, as the junior All­The coaches split with the "I had Gene Mayer's poster on Legends make a return to Notre Championships. The Irish face American defeated the coached, as Schmidt defeated my wall through high school, Dame next fall. fifth-ranked Florida this Australian, 6-0, 6-4. Kalbas 7-6, 6-2 while and to be playing with him, "I really think we can draw a Thursday in Louisville, Ky."Colin had a very bad Louderback downed Rosas 6-3, that's just kind of a neat lot more people as we go on," Saturday evening, DiLucia traveled to Philadelphia for the 
,..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~i;~shf;~. H~n~~: th;h::J; 
• • college player given an at-large bid to the tournament, which
• 
• 
awards the largest purse ($1.2 • • million) in American tennis. • • DiLucia faces Kevin Curren 

tomorrow. Curren is currently 

• 
n l( , • ranked 58th in the world, and


• JT's "1'~ E1\-J.J • • lost to Boris Becker in the
• CJ. • Wimbledon fmals of 1985. 
: ~JTf OAK IT'S goT! :Please recycle 
BUFFALO HOT WINGS ithisnewspaper 
: : 
when you are 
t AVAILABLE FROM 6 PIECES TO t 
: A 30-PIECE BUCKET : 
through with it. 
t *BRING IN TillS AD AND GET $1.00 OFF A 30-PIECE BUCKET t 
Thank you. 
: HOURS: 8:00P.M. -1:00 A.M.-SUNDAY-THURSDAY t t 8:00P.M.-2:00A.M.-FRIDAY AND SATURDAY : 
The Observer. t THE NITE OAK -IN SOUTH DINING HALL t 
~········································· 
., 
r page 20 The Observer Monday, February 17. 1992 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
The Belles grabbed the lead on a free throw by Restovich at the 10:57 mark, 54-53. 
Beloit stopped the Belles fast break, holding them to just two buckets in five minutes. But the Belles would go to the line 11 more times sinking a poor 41 percent at the line, the Belles stretched their lead to 59-53 with 7:53. 
Jenny Oberstar's three point jumper charged the Lady Buccaneers again. Beloit cut the Belles lead, pulling within one at the 2:27 mark, 69-68. The Belles extended their lead to five, 75-70, with :13 remaining. Still charged, Beloit kept their upset hopes alive, sinking two buckets from the line, but that would be the last stand for the Lady Buccaneers as the Belles held them off for the victory. 
"Saint Mary's did a nice job capitalizing on their opportuni­ties. They were patient and had some good shots on us," said Beloit coach Mimi Walters. "We had some opportunities but we didn't finish on several points. 
"Let me tell you, I'd rather be lucky than good," joked Cromer. "In the second half, we came out, got into our flow. We started fastbreaking, using the man-to-man and really pressur­ing them. Our biggest problem was we weren't hitting the free throws." 
Three players scored in dou­ble figures for the Belles. Junior center Julie Snyder led all scorers with 23. Restovich tallied 15 points and four re­
bounds.  Junior  center Kim  
Holmes  added  another  10  
points.  

Three players scored in dou­ble digits for Beloit. Karen Walker led Beloit's efforts with 20 points. Senior guard Stacy Schmidt tallied 17 points and 

Notre Dame chosen as 1994 NCAA tennis site 
Special to the Observer 

The Courtney Tennis Center at the University of Notre Dame will serve as the site for the 1994 NCAA men's tennis championships. 
The event, which crowns a team champion in addition to titleists in singles and doubles, is set for May 20-29. 
It is only the second time since 1977, when the current team format was adopted, that the men's championships have been held outside the University of Georgia in Athens, Ga. The 1990 tournament was held in Indian Wells, Calif. A total of 20 teams will compete for the team title while 64 singles players will meet for the individual crown. Doubles competition will consist of 32 teams. 
The Courtney Tennis Center, built in 1967, will see 20 courts used during the competition. Seating will be added to the number one, two and three courts to provide a stadium atmosphere. In addition to the Courtney courts, the Eck Tennis Pavilion's six courts can be used in the event of inclement weather. The South Bend Racquet Club, which is located near campus, could make an additional eight courts available if necessary. 
Notre Dame was the site of the 1971 NCAA championship that was won by then-freshman Jimmy Connors of UCLA. He de­feated Stanford's Roscoe Tanner in the finals in five sets. Others in that star-studded field included Brian Gottfried and 
The Observer/Merguerite Schropp 
Dick Stockton of Trinity, Rice's Harold Solomon, Eddie Dibbs of Miami and the tournaments top seed, Jeff Borrowiak of UCLA. 
"This is a great opportunity for the University to bring a high level of tennis to the South Bend community," said Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. "We're very excited the NCAA selected Notre Dame and we're committed to providing a first­class tournament for the par­ticipants, coaches, and fans." 
Notre Dame men's coach Bob Bayliss will oversee the day-to­day operations of the tourna­ment. He was at the 1971 championships as a coach for Navy. Bayliss has fond memo­ries of the event. 
"I remember walking away and I was very impressed with the job Notre Dame and the community did," said Bayliss. "It made a real impression on me and I think people were very impressed with the calibre of tennis they saw that week. The tournament has remained in Athens, Ga. for so many years because the people really do an outstanding job. There's a very festive atmosphere and we want to duplicate that with the help of the local community. 
"We'll have a large number of courts available and that will provide the scheduling commit­tee more flexibility. We have the setup to play three dual matches simultaneously and if we have to go indoors we can play two dual matches at a time. Those are just a few of the factors that I think will help us put on an outstanding tour­nament." 

The Saint Mary's basketball team extended it's winning streak to four 
If you see news happening, call 
games with a win over Beloit on Saturday. 
Wiegel added 12.  Angela Athletic Facility. In the  the Observer at  
The Belles host Olivet College  Saint Mary's Roundball Classic in December, Olivet defeated the  239-5303  
tomorrow~ghl~7pm~the  ~B;ell~e~s~8~1~-~8~4~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  
i  "'!•  
i~21'~~l  DISMAS  HOUSE  
v  
A  community  of  support,  reconciliation  and  adjustment,  
Dismas House offers  a  unique opportunity for Saint Mary's and  
Notre  Dame  students  to  share  in  a  life-training experience  
with  former  prisoners.  Together  an  environment  of  trust,  
friendship and hope  can  be built to  provide the confidence and  
courage necessary for each  to  enter society  as  a valuable and  

It may be easier than you think to get started in integral member the health care profession. 
. The Army Reserve's new Specialized T~ining for Army Readiness (STAR) program pays 10r your tuition, books and fees at a local, Army-approved, civilian school of your choice. Are you interested in living in the Dismas 
Choose a rewarding career as alan: . . . 
community next semester?
• 
Dental Laboratory Specialist • Emerg~ncy Med1cal ~ec~oan (Paramedic) • Practical Nurse • Operatmg Roo~ Specialist . . 

• 
X-Ray Specialist • Pharmacy Specialist • Resprratory Spectalist 


Applications available at the Center for
• Laboratory Specialist 
Social Concerns. See: Kathy Royer -239­
To see if you qualify and to learn more, call: 7862, or call Br. Bonaventure Scully -­
(219) 234-4187 
239-7353, or call Dismas House -· 233­a ALL 10U CAM II!' 8522 
ARMY RESERVE 


Topics: Tuesday, 2/18 

International Students at ND 
Wednesday, 2/19 
ND Students Abroad 
Thursday, 2/20 

The Multicultural Executive Council 
would like to extend aSPECIAL invitation to those students: 

•who have travelled/studied abroad 
•who plan to study abroad 

•who live in countries other than the United States 
•who are from Eastern Europe 
------------~·--~~---­
Monday, February 17, 1992 

The Observer/John Rock Notre Dame senior guard Elmer Bennett was a major factor in the faster offense that defeated Syracuse this weekend. 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
night. We've been digging holes for ourselves and having to battle back." 
However, the tenth-ranked Orangemen gradually chipped away at the lead and cut it to 43-39 at 3:09 when Syracuse All-American candidate Dave Johnson, who finished with a game-high 31 points, layed in an offensive rebound. 
The Irish were able to open the lead back to eight when LaPhonso Ellis, who led the team with 28 points and 15 re­bounds, rejected Orangemen center Conrad McRae, and Sweet finished the ensuing break with a tomahawk slam. 
After the teams went into the locker rooms with Notre Dame leading 53-4 7, they played rela­tively even for the first eleven minutes of the second half. 
Syracuse had the ball trailing 74-69 with 9:16 remaining, and Ellis was whistled for fouling Johnson. MacLeod erupted at the call and was nailed with a technical foul. 
"Number one, he [Johnson] 
--------------------~---~~~-~--~--------------, 
The Observer page 21 
Orange crushed by up tempo offense 
By ANTHONY KING Associate Sports Editor 
Syracuse, New York~ Guns were blazing in the Carrier Dome, as the Irish unleashed a fast paced arsenal of offense. 
The showdown belonged to a sharpshooting Notre Dame team that blew away the Orangemen with a high caliber fast break attack. 
The Irish offense had been struggling, to put it mildly, in its last five games. Poor shooting has plagued the Irish, especially in the first half. 
Yet, on Saturday, the up­tempo offense was resurrected, and put a 101 points on the scoreboard. 
The spark that seemed to give the Irish life was point guard Elmer Bennett's constant pres­sure on the Syracuse defense. Bennett pushed the ball up court persistently, and set up easy buckets on Orangeman de­fensive breakdowns. 
Syracuse tried to pressure Notre Dame into turnovers, us­ing a full and half court trap. Bennett and company did not 
hooked him [Ellis]; number two, he [Johnson] walked with the basketball and number three, I got the technical," said MacLeod, who still seemed upset over the call at the post­game press conference. 
Johnson hit two of four foul shots, and Syracuse retained possession following the tech­nical. Adrian Autry attempted to tie the game with a three­pointer, but missed. After a Notre Dame turnover, Syracuse freshman sensation Lawrence Moten, who scored 25 points, 
was fouled by Malik Russ-ell and appeared to be bothered by the pressure and often exploited it. 
"We had to change the tempo of the game, and try to make it a little faster," explained Syracuse coach Jim Boehiem. "They have four seniors and they handled it pretty well." 
The Irish full court press, on the other hand, produced some key turnovers and easy baskets. The Orangeman gave it up five times to the press in the ftrst half alone. 
Fast break opportunities were open all game for Notre Dame. Syracuse gave up the break, to crash the offensive glass. The Irish capitalized on this, by running and gunning for easy hoops. 
"When you're down eight to ten points, you have to gamble," said Boeheim. "We had 29 offensive rebounds, that's why we had a chance to win the game. 
"But, when you gamble and you go to the boards, there are going to be some fast break opportunities. But if you don't gamble you lose by 15 or 20. You've got to give yourself a chance to win. That's why we 
hit one of two free throws to cut 
the Notre Dame lead to 74-72. 
Just as it appeared as if the Irish would crack under the pressure of the Syracuse de­fense and Carrier Dome crowd of 30,877, they responded with two straight buckets. At 8:11, Keith Tower hit Bennett with a perfect pass from the top of the key for an easy layup. Following a missed trey by Moten, Sweet sunk a 15 foot jumper to stretch the lead back to six, 78-72. 
The teams traded baskets un­til the 4:08 mark when Sweet took a tip pass from Jon Ross, 

press, that's why we go to the boards so hard. 
"When you're not making shots, you have to do something to get back in the game. We tried our full and half court traps and got something out of them, but not quite enough." 
The Irish break resurrected under the pressurized Carrier roof, hitting on all cylinders. LaPhonso Ellis and Daimon Sweet finished off the break, while Bennett dished out a game high seven assists. 
"We watched a lot of films and we saw that one of their strengths was getting second and third attempts," explained Ellis. "That leaves the backcourt open, so we were trying to take advantage of it every time we could." 
When Ellis slammed home his final point on a break, he had scored 28 points. The rest of Lethal Weapon 3, Sweet and Bennett, combined for 46 points. 
Coach John MacLeod was pleased with the offensive ef­fort, as the Irish broke the cen­tury mark for the first time in the MacLeod era. 
scored on a layup and was fouled. He converted the three­point play to put Notre Dame up 87-80. 
After each team turned the ball over and a Scott McCorkle miss, Sweet fed Ellis with an al­ley-oop to extend the lead to nine with 3:17 left. 
The Irish then completed the 
upset from the foul line. 
"Anyone who enjoys basket­ball got their money's worth out of this one. Both teams showed a great effort," MacLeod commented. 
"This was a very, very big win for Notre Dame basketball." 
ALL Students, Facuity, and Staff are welcome!I 


Monday, February 17, 1992 Haggar Parlor 7pm 
Call For A Fr~~ 1992 Stud~nl Travel catalog! 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer 
Irish wrestling falls to MSU
SMC swimmers 
Jamieson, McGrew win matches 
has had x-rays and it has 
fRifNOS OON'I lH fRifNOS ORIVf DRUNK
been determined that she has no broken bones. Cooper is opUmistic that she will be able to resume practice within the week and will be able to dive in the championship meet in two weeks. 

JAMIE BOYD 
sophomore All-American Kevin Randleman. 
McGrew continues to shrug ofT injuries in his quest for the NCAA tournament. "I'm getting back in the groove," said McGrew, who has had recent ankle problems in addition to a torn cartilage that kept him out five or six weeks at the start of the season. "I'm getting back into shape and gaining some in­tensity." 
The Irish usually count on a victory at the 150 pound level, and Boyd didn't let the team down. Including an 8-2 deci­sion on Sunday, Boyd has qui­etly established a 15-5-1 mark this season. After unexpectedly bulking up from 142 last sea­son, Boyd could surprise a few people by sneaking into the NCAA's this March. 
Senior Marcus Gowens, ranked 13th in the nation at 126 pounds, beat Demond Betts. Gowens raised his sea­son record to 20-4, notching victory number 92 in his illus­trious career. 
Another NCAA candidates for the Irish, heavyweight Chuck Weaver, broke a personal seven game winning streak as Spartans' powerful Dan Whipp (24-11-1) wrestled him to a draw. Weaver had made his first appearance in the rankings (18th) prior to the match. 
1~1 INE IErs 
'~II At, . 
f4tE Ap 48. 
Jl41D. 
Point. 
2 
• 

----------· ---------------------­
(1) (3) 
3 (4) Kansas 4 (6) Arizona 
5 (7) North Carolina 
6 (2) Oklahoma State 
7 (5) Indiana 
8 (8) Ohio State 
9 (9) Missouri 10 (10) Arkansas 
11 (12) Michigan State 12 (17) Kentucky 13 (11) Syracuse 
14 (19) UNLV 
15 (16) Alabama 
16 (14) Connec1icut 
17 (15) Tulane 
18 (18) usc 
19 (13) Michigan 
20 (24) Florida State 
21 (-) Cincinnati 
22 (-) Seton Hall 
23 (20) UNC-Charlotte 
24 (25) UTEP 
25 (22) LSU 
Observer Staff Report 

The Duke Blue Devils received 22 of 23 first place votes and retained their top ranking in the National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll, and UCLA, who will visit the Joyce ACC on Saturday, picked up the only other first-place vote. 
Big movers in the poll in­cluded Kentucky, who moved up 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Attention ND/SMC Sailing team and anyone who likes to sail: There will be a mandatory meeting Monday, February 17, at 
8:15 p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. Everyone is welcome to attend, including freshmen. 
•The 
new Bookstore Basketball commissioner for 1992 is Andy Sinn, and the following people have been named assistant commissioners: Theresa Forst, Bobby Sullivan, Pat Coleman, Allen Echiverri, John O'Rourke, John Neal, Dan Gutchewsky, and Scott Buccellato. Congratulations to everyone . 

•Attention 
all freshmen: The Student Managers Organization will have an informational meeting for all interested in assisting the male and female athletes of Notre Dame. The meeting will be held Wednesday, Feb. 19 at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Football Auditorium. Any questions please call the Manager's Office at 239­6482. 


Othera receiving vot•s: Oklahoma 44.5, Georgetown 23, Iowa State 23, VIllanova 19, Georgia Tech 13, Louisville 11, Stanford 11, TCU 11, Ball State 10, St. John's 7, Montana 6, Iowa 5, Princeton 5, Massachusetts 4. Wake Forest 4, DePaul 3, Minnesota 3, Mississippi St. 2, Notre Dame 2, Penn State 2, West Virginia 1, Wls-Green Bay 1. 
Schools pertlclpetlng: Alabama, Arizona, Ball State, Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia, Duke, Florida, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Miami, Missouri, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon State, Penn, Penn State, Purdue, Syracuse, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin. 
five spots to 12th, and Michigan, who dropped six places to 19th. 
Georgia Tech and Oklahoma each dropped out of this weeks rankings, and they were re­placed by Seton Hall and Ci11cinnati. 
N·otre Dame's upsets of Stanford and Syracuse last week enabled the Irish to pick up two votes. 
574 
19-1 552 
19-2 496 
19-3 476 
18-3 469 
21-3 452 
18-4 449.5 
17-3 419.5 
17-3 391 
19-5 375 17-4 348 18-5 266 16-5 255 22-2 238 19-5 233 16-5 219 19-3 207 17-4 202 15-6 182 18.£ 131 19-3 95 
15-6 73.5 16-6 53 18-5 50 14-7 46 

split meets 
By JULIE SCULLY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team competed Saturday against Hillsdale College and Grand Valley at Hillsdale. The meet, which was originally scheduled to be a two-team meet between Saint Mary's and Hillsdale, gave the Belles a win and a loss. Saint Mary's beat Hillsdale 4 7-44, while Grand Valley racked up 73 points to Saint Mary's 42. 
"Overall, it was a good meet for us. Our swimmers are exactly where they should be after the last dual meet of the season. We are defmitely on the right track on the road to the championships," coach Dennis Cooper said. 
In Saturday's meet, senior tri-captain Kathleen Golski took first in the 1,000 freestyle event with a time of 1:48.97. Golski said, "It was my personal best so I was obviously very pleased with the time." 
The only double winner for the Belles was another senior tri-captaln, Michelle Colburn who took the 100 freestyle with a time of 
57:16. Colburn also dominated the 200 freestyle event with a time of 205:15.20, which was her personal best. 
"I was really happy with my times, but I couldn't help being disappointed that I missed the school record by three tenths of a second in the 100 freestyle," Colburn said. 
Sophomore Ellen Kramer placed second in the 100 freestyle behind Colburn. Kramer also finished second in the 100 breaststroke and in the 400 medley relay. 
Senior diver, Carrie Cummins gave the team a scare when her arm hit the board In her last dive of the meet. Coach Cooper said, "It really shook her up and it was a tough way for her to end the season." Cummins 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team faced a long trip home from East Lansing Michigan last night, where they suffered a disappointing 18-15 loss. 
"We really didn't wrestle up to our potential," said junior Jamie Boyd, who hails from Mt. Pleasant, MI. 
Sophomore J.J. McGrew con­curred: "We should have won, and it shouldn't have been that close." 
"We lost two or three matches we shouldn't have and they got rolling," he continued. "We were facing a home crowd (bolstered by an alumni re­union) and some bad calls." 
The Irish, now even at 4-4 in dual meets on the season, broke the momentum of their two game winning streak. On the other hand, the Spartans took their third straight from the Irish, boosting their record to 6­
9. MSU has taken five of seven in the heated series. 
Individually, Notre Dame won only two of the ten matches on Sunday afternoon. The meet started off on a high note at 118, where the team has been struggling. Freshman Ed Jamieson returned from an in­jury, replacing Chris Jensen and Javier Rivera, and beat MSU's Jedediah Kramer (8-17) to give the Irish an unexpected lift. 
McGrew, a 177 pound sophomore from Cleveland, OK, scored a major decision on Brian Woods (21-12-1). McGrew (9-4) rolled to his third win in a row, his last loss com­ing against Ohio State's 


Monday, February 17, 1992 The Observer page 23 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

Part of a series of Dr. Lewis' experiments on flightless birds 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 

. 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 
1 Returns on payments 
8 ----conditioning 15 Utterly unyielding 16 ----Wood 17 Goddess of wisdom 18 Signaled, as in an 
auto race 19 Toward the stern 20 Throat tissue 22 More aged (arch.) 23 Legislative body 
of Japan 25 Objects of worship 26 Bedouin tribe 27 Estate 29 Chemical suffix 30 Shopping ­31 Young bird 33 Navigation devices 34 Work with wall­
paper 35 Chinese: comb. form 36 Gnawing animal 39 Measuring device 43 Asunder 44 Mr. Aykroyd 45 Car or cleanser 46 A Bobbsey twin, 
et al. 47 Miss Ronstadt 49 Secret agent 
Napoleon ­50-hat 51 Welsh­53 -ear 54 Community 56 Pertaining to love 58 Musician Georges,
and family 59 Recover from 
(2 wds.)60 Most blushful 61 Female prophet 
DOWN 
1 Islamic month of 
fasting 2 Building 3 Teases 4 French soul 5 Sharp in taste 6 Concluding remarks 
to a poem 7-army 8 Among the records 
(2 wds.) 
9 Coffin cloths 10 Letters, in Greece 11 Distasteful news­
paper 
12 High school course 13 Actor Leslie ---­14 One-piece under­
garments 21 "Flower Drum ----" 24 Lines restricting 
animals 26 Fitting 28 Distort a story 30 -boom 32 Finance abbrevi­
ation 33-Abner 35 Balloon-ride items 36 Exceeded one's al­
lotted time (2 wds.) 37 Iridescent milky­white 38 Bounced on one's 
knee 39 Vaudeville prop 40 Involving love, 
hate, etc. 41 Experiences again 42 Devices for removing 
pits44 Most dreadful 47 Capital of Nigeria 48 Evangelist McPherson 51 Compete at Indy 52 Actress Sharon ­55 Dangerous drug 57 Rocky crest 
CAMPUS 
Monday 

7 p.m. Film, "Miracle in Milan." Annenberg Auditorium. 9 p.m. Film, "Avant Garde." Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Monday 

4:30 p.m. Lecture, "Actuality and Timelessness in Franz Grillparzer's Dramatic Works." Konrad Schaum, professor of German. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Tuesday 

Noon. Lecture, "Casey v. Planned Parenthood: Will the Court Overrule Roe?" Professor Douglas Kmiec, Notre Dame Law School. Law School Courtroom. 
-

12:30 p.m. Seminar, "Presidentialism, Democratic Institutions, and Political Instability in Costa Rica," Fabrice Lehoucq, faculty fellow. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round Jumbo Fish Sandwich Vegetables Marinara 

Reduce Reuse Recycle 
THANK YOU! 
Sports 


By ROLANDO De AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Youth scored a small victory over experience Saturday afternoon at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, as Notre Dame's men's tennis team defeated the Legends of Tennis, 5-4. 
Notre Dame used a combina­tion of quickness and accurate hitting to defeat four of six Legends singles teams and two of three doubles tandems. 
Entering Saturday's dual match, the number-one singles match looked like the perfect arena for a battle between youth and experience. But youth won a convincing victory, as Notre Dame's David DiLucia crushed Hank Pfister. 
"Pfister played a good match," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss.
-
"Dave likes to be in this situation. He responds very well to the spotlight." 
Pfister, the number~one player in the world in men's 35s, never got on track in the 6-1, 6-2 decision. The 38-year-old was run ragged by DiLucia, the second-ranked player in collegiate tennis. 
"While most of us (Legends) still move pretty well, you're used to a certain footspeed," Pfister said. "These kids, they're running like rabbits. When you hit a volley, and it's going away, you almost relax for a second. Then, not only do they run it down, but they hook it back cross-court on you." 
Pfister fared much better when paired with Peter Fleming at number-one doubles. After dropping the first set to the team of DiLucia and Chuck Coleman, the Legends' number­one tandem came back to win the second. However, the Legends could not keep their momentum, as DiLucia hit a spectacular winner while lying on his back to win the deciding tiebreaker. 
Junior Andy Zurcher defeated Peter Fleming, John McEnroe's former doubles partner, at number-two singles, 6-4, 6-4. However, Notre Dame's Will Forsyth fell to Legend Gene Mayer, 7-5, 7-6 (8-6). Forsyth led late in each set, but Mayer used crafty play to break the Irish junior. 
"Gene Mayer is kind of a dicer-type player," said Forsyth. "I haven't really been exposed to that in college tennis. There aren't too many of those guys 
see TENNIS I page 19 

Belles' basketball continues streak Beloit College the victim of SMC's fourth straight win 
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
Success continues for the Saint Mary's basketball team as the Belles (8-8) defeated visiting Beloit College (11-9), 77-72. 
The win marks the fourth in row for the rebounding Belles. With four games remaining on the schedule, the Belles have a narrow shot at a tournament invitation. But the Belles will have to travel without team captain Janet Libbing. Libbing, the Belles leading rebounder and second highest scorer, in­jured her left knee late in the first half of Saturday's game. Although doctors won't know until Wednesday the full extent of her injury, it appears that Libbing tore ligaments in her knee, forcing her to sit out the rest of the season. 
"The nicest thing is that we won four in a row. The worst thing is that we've lost Janet Libbing. You know that is going to hurt us," explained Belles coach Don Cromer. 
The Belles dominated the boards the first ten minutes of play. Executing their fast break, the Belles opened up a 24-14 lead. The Belles stretched their lead to 13 with 7:58 left on the clock, 30-17. But the Belles switched to an ineffective zone defense, allowing Beloit to muscle inside to the board. The Lady Buccaneers cut the lead to 32-29. 
An injured Libbing was forced out of the game for the Belles, giving Beloit more opportunity to strike. Leading the Lady Buccaneers in first half scoring at 10 points, sophomore guard Shelly Wiegel hit the three point jumper twice help Beloit cut their deficit. Without the strength of Libbing on the floor, Beloit stole the Belles' lead at the half, 37-41. 
"We started out fastbreaking, playing our game," explained senior forward Catherine Restovich. When Janet fell down, it brought our coaches down a bit." 
In the second half, both teams battled aggressively for control, swapping leads three times within the first eight minutes. 
see BELLES/ page 20 
Monday, February 17, 1992 

ND stuns Syracuse 
Irish pull off upset; win101-98 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 

SYRACUSE, N.Y.-The Notre Dame men's basketball team (9­
11) broke one streak, but continued another on Saturday at the Carrier Dome. 
The Irish's 101-98 win snapped Syracuse's 20-game home winning streak, and it was the first time in Orangemen coach Jim Boeheim's 16 year tenure that an opponent had scored over 100 points. 
"We had a great offensive game. You don't score 100 points very often. Today the opportunity presented itself because we both like to run," said Elmer Bennett, who had 22 points and seven assists. 
"When the other team is pressuring you, you can't take a lot of time off the clock. Therefore, you have to take the shots when they are there." 
The Irish win. their third straight at the Carrier Dome, showcased the up-tempo of­fense and solid man-to-man de­fense that Irish coach John MacLeod has tried to implement throughout the season. On Saturday, everything finally clicked. 
"Going in, we wanted to re­bound, get the ball out and run the break. We were concerned with their offensive rebounding ability, their depth and their switching defenses," MacLeod 
Track teams improving 


By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame track teams went its separate ways this weekend as the women trav­elled to Purdue for the Purdue S-Way and the men headed to the University of Iowa for the Central Collegiate Champion­ships. Despite finishing in fifth place, the women's team more than tripled its point total from last year while the men's team finished seventh in its meet. 
Last year at the Purdue event, the Irish women scored a disappointing seven points, but in the 1992 edition, Notre Dame scored 22.5 points. Miami of Ohio captured the Purdue title edging out Purdue which finished second and Southern Illinois, the third place finisher. Southwest Missouri placed fourth in the meet just ahead of Notre Dame. 
"We didn't compete as strongly as we're capable of, although, we did have some good performances," said se­nior captain Diana Bradley. "We competed well against the other teams. It's just a step until we get to where we win meets." 
Freshman Becky Alfieri, se­nior Karen Harris, and the re­lay team of Eva Flood, Kristi Kramer, Kala Boulware, and Bradley were the highest finishers for the Notre Dame squad with second place finishes in the 3000-meter race, the shot put, the 4 x 800 relay, respectively. 
In the mile race, Notre Dame put two runners in the top five 
• NO finds fast break! pg 21 
commented. "Our players de­serve a lot of credit. They did a lot of good things tonight." 
One of those good things was the Notre Dame free-throw shooting, as the Irish were 32 for 40 (80 percent) from the line for the game. 
Down the stretch they won it from the line. With 1:15 left and Syracuse trailing 93-89 and deliberately fouling, Notre Dame was nearly flawless. hit­ting eight of its last ten foul shots. Daimon Sweet was six for six in the waning moments, and his last two put the Irish over the century mark for the first time since January 27, 1990 when they defeated Miami {Fla. I 107-60 at the Joyce ACC. 
After shooting only 39.9 per­cent from the floor in the first half of its last four games, Notre Dame came out strong. scoring on 11 of its first 15 possessions. 
When Bennett capped a 10-0 Irish run with a 14 foot fade away jumper with 10:36 left in the first half and put Notre Dame up 30-14, it looked like the Irish would run away with an easy win. 
"Notre Dame came out and has a great start against us," Boeheim said. 
The same thing happened to us against Seton Hall the other 
see HOOPS I page 21 
....
~w 
John Coyle 
with Bradley and freshman Flood teamed up for a three­four finish in the event. In the Irish's other fourth place fin­ishes, freshman Monica Cox ran well in the 55-meter dash and Sarah Riley equalled the performance in the 800-meter race. 

Freshman workhorse Lisa Junek had another busy day placing sixth in three events, namely, the 200-meter dash, the high jump, and the 55-me­ter hurdles. Other finishers for the Irish include sophomores Laura Guyer who finished sev­enth for Notre Dame in the 600-meters and Kristin Stovall who placed eighth in the 400­meter dash. 
"All in all, it wasn't a bad meet for us," said Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. "The freshmen did a credible job. If we were to run it again in two weeks, we'd improve even more." 
As the end of the season nears, the women's team needs to work on some things. 
"We need to build confidence in ourselves not just as individ­
see TRACK/ page 19 





