The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 40 FRIDAY. OCTOBER 16, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Focus shifts to social issues in presidential debate 
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) ­President Bush, Bill Clinton and Ross Perot fielded questions from uncommitted voters Thursday in a free-flowing de­bate that ranged from taxes to crime and character. Clinton said he wanted the wealthy to pay their "fair share" in higher taxes, while the President said he was opposed to any tax hikes. 
Bush started more aggres­sively than in Sunday night's first debate, criticizing Clinton for trying to come down on 
more than one side of an issue. ********** "You can't turn the White House into the Waffle House," he said. 
·ELECTION 192 

Clinton replied that he has been "disturbed by the tone and tenor of this campaign. I'm not interested in his character. I'm interested in changing the character of the presidency." 
The 90-minute debate at the University of Richmond was held under unprecedented ground rules in which inde­pendent voters asked questions from the audience. 
Following Bush's criticism of Clinton, one questioner asked "can't we focus on the issues and programs ... How can we expect the three of you to meet our needs?" 
The questioner suggested that the candidates were steered by "your political spin doctors," prompting Clinton and Perot to protest that the thoughts they uttered were their own, and not drilled into them by aides. 


Health care plans compared 
Professors, students talk of candidates' ideas 
BY SANDY WIEGAND 
Assistant News Editor 
As students prepare to cast their votes for president next month, one issue they are con­sidering is the candidates' plans for health care. 
The United States spends more on health care than any other industrialized country in the world. Yet the U.S. has higher infant mortality rates than most, and millions of people arc without coverage. 
Students and academicians at Notre Dame have diiTerent per­spectives on the health care problems facing the country and varied opinions on how to -and who should -solve them. 
Handi Theraldsen, a senior accounting major, said one concern for her is the availabil­ity of health care for the poor. "Because of the high cost, it's not available to everybody," she said. 
Another student, junior Mag­gie O'Shaughnessy, said a main concern for her is "the question of access, being able to get what you need and get quality when you get it." 
"Just because someone can't 
pay for it doesn't mean some­
body shouldn't be able to get an 
abortion, or cancer treatment." 
O'Shaughnessy said. "Right 
now we're deciding the quality 
of someone's life by how much 
money they have." 
O'Shaughnessy said she fears 
Bush's proposal to award tax 
credits to low income people 
********** 

ELECTION 192 
A series on issues affecting students 
because it would "introduce a lot more bureaucratic mess." 
Health care costs arc sky­rocketing in the U.S. because the system lacks the com peti­tive markets found in other sectors of the economy, says Professor Barry Keating, fi­nance and business economics chair. 
"Our health-care costs arc out of control because we have nei­ther discriminating buyers ex­ercising choice nor effective competition between providers and insurers," he wrote in a recent article. 
Not surprisingly then, Keating does not favor anything re­sembling a nationalized health care system. 
"In addition to noting that Canadian newspapers routinely report the deaths of patients waiting for coronary surgery," Keating wrote, "Heartland (Institute, a Chicago think tank) reports that the Canadians are doing no better than us in re­ducing costs, and, in fact, are doing a bit worse." 
"Pay or play" plans like that included in the Democratic Party platform say they would provide health care for every­one, but "would likely result in an even larger number of medically uninsured," accord­ing to Keating. He said Thurs­day he is not familiar enough with Bill Clinton's plan to com­ment on it. 
"Some businesses could be expected to simply cut salaries by the same amount as the re­quired government payment," he wrote. "Other firms would reduce their workforce to meet the cost increase." 
Keating said he leans toward Bush's health care plan, which would provide tax credits or tax deductions of up to $3,750 for individuals with incomes of $80,000 or less who receive less than $3,750 in insurance coverage from their employers. 
"If done correctly, they could 
be the basis of a real solution," Keating said in his article. "If people who purchase their own 
health insurance are allowed a tax credit, it would put a wary purchaser back in the market with more dollars to spend." 
The market would become more competitive, and curb ris­ing costs, according to Keating. 
But Keating said an even better plan has been overlooked by both parties. The national Center for Policy Analysis has proposed tax-deductible "Medisave" accounts, which would allow people to save for medical expenses tax free. 
People would be careful how they spent these savings, he says, and would shop for insur­ance plans with higher de­ductibles and lower premiums. 
Professor David Betson, asso­
ciate professor of economics, 
see HEALTH I page 4 



Quayle: Law can be 'noble' 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
The practice of law can be a "noble cause," but career should not be placed ahead of family, said Marilyn Quayle to the Christian Legal Society at the Notre Dame Law School Thursday. 
Quayle, who holds a law de­gree from Indiana University, said law is a "high cause" when practiced ethically and should not be considered "just a source of income." 
To maintain the high quality of law, Quayle said it is neces­sary to have "good" lawyers, which differs from lawyers who are intelligent. "Brilliant people make brilliant lawyers, sharp people make sharp lawyers, good people make good lawyers," she said. 
Family life is part of what makes people good, said Quayle. "Truly rich lives have all kinds of components ... but none of these should come be­fore family," she said. 
"Career advancement at the expense of family life is a bad, bad bargain," she continued. 
Quayle criticized the current legal system for its complexity and wastes. "Our system of justice has become so complex ... that it often fails to provide justice," she said. 
She praised the Bush admin­istration's proposed agenda to reform the current civil justice system, and criticized presi­dential candidate Gov. Bill Clin­ton's opposition to civil justice reform. 
In a press conference follow­ing the speech, Quayle said Clinton's proposed spending program will result in higher taxes for everyone, not just the rich, she said. 
Clinton "waffles" on issues and then denies changing his position, she said. 
"Bill Clinton cannot lead the country because he cannot tell the truth," she added. 
Quayle said she was pleased with her husband's perfor­mance in Tuesday's vice presi­dential debate, and "he set the tone" for the debate. He de­bated better than he had four years ago and "won the battle of the sound bites," she contin­ued . 
Quayle also said she does not find it surprising that the pres­idential race is close in her husband's home state of Indi­ana. In a poll released last Sat­urday, Bush and Quayle trailed Clinton and Gore by one per­centage point. 
The closeness of the race is partially due to one-sided me­dia coverage, especially on the Iran-Contra scandal, said Quayle. 
She also criticized the polling procedure, saying there are "two many polls that don't re­flect what's truly in the people's minds." 
The debaters then settled into Bush countered that the a swift back-and-forth on a crime bill backed by Clinton range of issues, including sev­wasn't tough enough. He said eral -crime, term limits, ur­he wanted tougher provisions to ban renewal and health insur­cut down on court appeals and ance -that hadn't been em­to strengthen the hand of police phasized in the previous en­officers. He also stressed his counter. support for the death penalty. 
Clinton said he supported the It was a presidential debate so-called Brady bill that called unlike any other. Rather than for a waiting period for hand­standing behind the customary gun purchasers, and also wooden podiums, Bush, Clinton backed an anti-crime bill that and Perot alternately sat on was killed earlier this month in blue-upholstered, long-legged Congress by a Republican-led chairs and paced in front of filibuster. them. 

CfO~id@ ' plans for 


health~ ca.re.•summarized 
By SANOY WIEGAND 
Assistant N~ Editor 
:When it com~s to health c.~te, the presidentialcandi· dates remain true to tradi"' tlonal party ?Jsputes ove.! government interve.gtion li!. social problems. 
Bill Clinton c.~~ims ~is plan Wo.uld cover everyone. and save Americans $700 billion by the end of the decade, George Bush counters that Clinton is proposing "a cure worse than the disease." and le~s radical change willdo th~ job. Ross Perot says the answers to the heal~k car~ problem would havll been found long ago if it were not for the "f~Uure ofleadership." 
'fhe Clinton plan ineludes the following points: 
•A na.tiQnaLk~alth board of consumers, providers, bush ness, labor and government would set nati<mal an~ stat~ health care budgets to limif both public and private health 
care costs~ 
•"Managed care networks" of insurers, hospitals, clinics and doctor~? wo~ld gt;lt. a. ilx~:~d amount ofmoney to spend on consumers. States would set 
.· ~zy.uppe.t~lll~t.Qij,:.these f~es. ,~~;;.: '"All employers would be re.quiredto ~n~ure their.• 
.. W.Qrker.s~ and.••~Q pr9.Vlde ~ comprehensiVe benefits package. 
•Private insurance coverage for non-workers would be paid for by the government. 
President Bush's plan includes the following: 
•A 
transferable health in­surance tax credit or tax de­duction of up to $3,750 per year for health insurance costs for those without health ins\lrance or whose employer contributes less than $3,750 toward the cost of an insurance plan. •Elimination of pre-existing conditions clauses. 

•Grouping 
small businesses into "Health Insurance Networks," to pool their resources and risks. 

•States 
would develop packages of basic benefits. 

•Expanded 
services in un­der·served rural and inner-city areas. 

•Standardized 
claims pro­cedures and reduced pa­perwork to reduce adminis­tratlve costs. 


Perot has the following plans: 
•Establishment 
of a national health board as an in­dependent federal agency to oversee cost containment and health-care reform . 

•States 
would submit com­prehensive health-care reform proposals that meet agreed­upon principles and cot­containment targets. 

•Changes 
in federal rules to allow states the necessary


>.:;;c,!~Pre~: t~.l);g con9itio;n.:·t· flexibility to conduct pilot clauses w be banned. . ' programs. 
Columbus a 'symbol of search for place cultures are respected' 
By ELIZABETH CASANOVA 
News Writer 
Christopher Columbus should be seen as a symbol of our continual exploration for a place where all cultures are respected, according to Sarah Fisko, a senior at Saint Mary's. 
During a lecture yesterday to close a week of cultural awareness at the College, Fisko focused on "the impor­tance of rootedness and the value of place," especially in the case of displaced Native Americans. 
Fisko described Columbus as a man without roots who searched for a place where he would be accepted. Be­cause Native Americans in­habited the continent before he arrived, Columbus did not discover America, but united the European and North American cultures. 
"I propose a need today for rootedness and for honoring the value of place," she said. "A knowing of place and of the meaning of rootedness is the single most important way to restore and appreci­ate today the quality of race, culture and ethnicity glob­ally." 
Fisko suggested four ways to achieve national unifica­tion: 

Last issue 
is the last issue of The 
. Observer until after fall break. The paper will re­sume publication Tuesday, OctobAr 27. llave a snfe and 
telS.Xing break. 


Friday, October 16, 1992
page 2 The Observer 

• 
In 1859: Abolitionist John Brown led a group of about 20 men in a raid on Harper's Ferry, Va. (now West Virginia). 

• 
In 1962: President John F. Kennedy was informed by his aides that reconnaissance photographs had revealed the presence of missile bases in Cuba. 

• 
In 1973: Henry Kissinger and Le Due Tho were named winners of the Nobel Peace Prize; however. the Vietnamese official declined the award. 

• 
In 1978: The College of Cardinals chose Cardinal Karol Wojtyla to be their new pope; he took the name John Paul II. 

• 
In 1987: An Iranian missile hit a reflagged Kuwaiti ship in the first direct attack on the tankers guarded by the U.S. 


INSIDE COLUMN 
It is not an easy thing to be in the public eye, for one in that position is always subject to scrutiny for everything that is said. Knowing this, however, there is a certain amount of care with which one must choose their words . 
In yesterday's

Observer, in the front page-s::-:;:t-:cor=yc-o-n____,S-ai,...,,n...,..t'M'a-r-y's 
Student Body President Christina Carrara's 
progress on implementing platform goals, she 
emphasized rebuilding pride within the Saint 
Mary's community. 
This is a very noble pursuit, although it seems that the college's students already have much pride in their school. One of the comments she made though was a direct, harsh insult to the school "across the street." 
Carrara said, "We want students to have an identity without the Notre Dame stigma attached." 
I didn't know that Notre Dame had a stigma attached to it, and I certainly am not upset about being associated with the university, so the remark was pretty hurtful. 
"Stigma" is a pretty harsh word, specifically meaning a mark of disgrace. Notre Dame cannot really be seen as a mark of disgrace to Saint Mary's College. 
As important as it is to maintain pride within one's community, it is important to do so without degrading the pride of another. The relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a very long standing one, albeit with much strain, especially since Notre Dame went co-ed and Saint Mary's remained independent. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been sharing events throughout the their history, from dances to football to Clinton's campaign address last month. 
It's understandable how it would be frus­trating to try and maintain a singular identity as a small college in the shadow of a national university, but Saint Mary's has several academic programs unavailable at Notre Dame-well respected programs which helped it become one of the best colleges in the Midwest. 
It's regrettable that Carrara does not ap­preciate the opportunities that having Notre Dame nearby affords Saint Mary's. However, Notre Dame students can be equally as ignorant of the benefits that Saint Mary's provides Notre Dame. 
Rather than lament Notre Dame as a "stigma," Carrara should appreciate the similarities and co-exchange options available to both schools. 
From a Notre Dame standpoint, classes at Saint Mary's are a blessing. The small class sizes there are a real benefit to learning. Too often at Notre Dame, lecture halls are classrooms and professor are adversaries-not the impression most get of Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's College will never be totally disassociated with Notre Dame unless they moved the campus again. Despite this, most every student I've talked to loves the place and couldn't imagine leaving, so have your pride, but please give Notre Dame the respect she deserves. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are · those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Cheryl Moser  Sandy Wiegand  
Susan Marx  Mike O'Hara  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Man fi~hts mortuary employee . 
Cardinal O'Connor hospitalized 
• NEW YORK -Cardinal John O'Connor, leader of New York's Roman Catholic Archdiocese, fell ill at a po­litical dinner Thursday and was taken by ambulance to a hospital, a spokeswoman said. The 72-year-old car­dinal began feeling nauseated at the beginning of the Alfred E. Smith Dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, archdiocese spokeswoman Mary Moore said. "A doctor examined him, and then called paramedics," Moore said. "He never lost consciousness." O'Connor was taken to St. Vincent's Hospital. Alfred E. Smith IV, one of the dinner hosts, announced that the cardinal had a stomach virus. 
Chancellor backs cultural center 
• CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -The chancellor of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Thursday endorsed putting a proposed black cultural center on campus that he earlier fretted might be seen as a sym­bol of racial separatism. Chancellor Paul Hardin also 
-said the center, which must be approved by the uni­versity's trustees, could be built with private funds. He said donors are "waiting out there for us to get our act together, and once we do that the pledges will come." Hardin's comment last winter that housing the center in a separate building might make it a symbol -of racial separation helped fuel the controversy. 
MARKET UPDATE 
FORECAST 
Cloudy, windy and cold with a chance of rain. Temps around 50. Cold night with chance of rain and snow. Partly cloudy and cold Saturday 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H9  L  
Anchorage  31  20  
Atlanta  at·  58  
Bogota  66  46  
Boston  59  53  
Cairo  88  70  
Chicago  65  48  
Cleveland  74  57  
Dallas  85  73  
Detroit  69  57  
Indianapolis  82  60  
Jerusalem  84  61  
London  52  41  
Los Angeles  72  64  
Madrid  75  46  
Minneapolis  47  31  
Moscow  30  28  
Nashville  85  61  
New York  61  57  
Paris  52  45  
Philadelphia  72  54  
Rome  63  55  
Seattle  54  37  
South Bend  72  54  
Tokyo  64  61  
Washington, D.C.  73  53  

Mistletoe berries used in poisoning 
• HOUSTON -A man accused of mixing a lunch of mistletoe berries, drain cleaner and spaghetti for his wife is being tried for attempted murder. Tammy Pavlu, 30, says she noticed the lethal berries before she ate any spaghetti last February, days before their first wedding anniversary. Terry Pavlu, 29, claims he was depressed over his failing marriage and worried about losing custody of his son and meant the concoction for himself, according to his testimony to the grand jury. Mrs. Pavlu told a state District Court jury on Wednesday that a few days before the food was poi­soned, her husband warned that he would rather see her dead and their son in a foster home than let her have custody. 
ACLU Sues School Over Voodoo 
• NEW ORLEANS -The American Civil Liberties Union sued a suburban school board Thursday for ban­ning from its libraries a book on voodoo history that contains "recipes" for casting spells. Robert Womack, a school board member leading the fight against the book, called it a "how-to manual for sexual perversion and killing." The St. Tammany Parish School Board voted in June to remove the book from school libraries in the district north of the city. Jim Hashek, the attorney hired by the ACLU, said there is no evidence the book would lead someone to commit a crime. The ACLU filed the suit on behalf of Susan Campbell, whose daughter is a seventh-grader in the district. "The repression of ideas is more dangerous than the contents of the book" she said. 
CAMPUS 
Universi~ to sponsor health fair 
• NOTREAME -The University of Notre Dame will sponsor its fourth annual Benefits and Lifestyle Fair Oct. 20-21 in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. Fair events for the Notre Dame faculty, staff and their families will take place from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Tuesday, Oct. 20, and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednes­day, Oct. 21. A weekend trip for two to Las Vegas, in­cluding round-trip airline tickets and hotel accommo­dations at the Flamingo Hilton, will be awarded during the fair. In conjunction with the fair, Human Resources will sponsor the Lifestyle Olympics to be held Oct. 19­21 for all faculty and staff wishing to compete on de­partmental teams. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

Sports Jenny Marten  Lab Tech Macy Hueckel  
Business Paul Pearson Mark Krejci  Systems Dave Halloran  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. · 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING October 15 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 253,805,980 +0.15 to 225.54 S&P COMPOSITE 

+0.23 to 409.60 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-20.80 to 3174.68
UNCHANGED 625 

GOLD 
-$1.RO to $341.00 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.005 to $3.702 oz 


--~-----~-----------------------~"-'! 
Friday, October 16, 1992 The Observer page" 
Fitzsimons, history professor, dies at age 80 
J 
1 
l 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
Matthew Fitzsimons, professor emeritus of history and one of Notre Dame's most influential and affectionately 
on McKinley V2 mile east ofTown &Country Shopping Center 
Sat Sun THIRD COAST FUTONS
10-6 12-5 

regarded teachers, died this morning at the age of 80. He had been a faculty member at the University since 1937. 
Fitzsimons was the quintessencial professor, according to University 

_ KRISTIN, Would Your Mother Be 
TRY OUR EXCmNG NEW SHRIMP DISHES. 
Shoney's four great new shrimp dinners. They're all just plain delicious. New Shrimp Stir-Fry, Grilled Shrimp, Shoney's Special Recipe Shrimp and Buffalo Shrimp with a hot dipping sauce. All four are served with your choice of potato or rice and, 
~~l~~~~~~a~~~;~:~:tfas:~;~ ~H
·oNEV'~ 
Salad and Fruit Bar. You're CJ , ( CJ 
shrimply going to love them. ..DlfiiRS ® 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
professors."
..-----..professor was or is or could 
be," said Hesburgh. Professor Fitzsimons became Professor Dennis Moran, who editor of the Review of Politics worked with Fitzsimons on the in 1955 and served until 1974. Review of Politics which is He continued to contribute articles to the journal even after his retirement in 1979 and his
r-:., lO 0 c;:.-----..... history 
of the journal will ' _g ()..:J ~o 0'\"\ appear in the Review's issue 
:~~--~0:~41 DJ later this month. The journal is 
...._b""(br::-u "one of few political science ,~~Q;J journals that deals values and ~~ theory in political science and 
c.f government," said Father 
Hesburgh.F d OY & S Fitzsimons held degrees from
ri OtUrday 
.. _.. Columbia University (where he 9 302 30 was valedictorian) and Oxford 
1 mile east of campus 


University and recieved his doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1947. He specialized in 19th and 20th century British history, American foreign policy and the philosophy of history. Fitzsimons published several books in his field, including "The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government," "Empire by Treaty," and "The Past Recaptured," in addition to many articles which appeared in scholarly and popular journals. 
Professor Fitzsimons recieved numerous honors for his scholarship and teaching, including Notre Dame's Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., award for teaching excellence which he was awarded in 1975. He was a member of the American Historical Association, the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences, and the Catholic Historical Association. 
A funeral Mass will be celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 10 a.m. and visitation will be in the Basilica's Lady Chapel on hour before the mass. 
Volunteers at hospital work with children 
By LORI LINDLEY 
News Writer 
A new volunteer program called HUGS (Helpful Under­graduate Students) gives Notre Dame students an opportunity to gain experience in a hospital setting while providing patients in the pediatrics unit of South Bend Memorial Hospital with valuable love and attention. 
"This is an opportunity for them to give something to the kids and gain experience at the same time," said Dr. Robert White, a neonatologist at Memorial's Regional Center for Mother and Child Care. White is the supervisor at the hospital 
President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. "He was a wise and enormously intellectual man who was always open to students. He knew his field forward and backward and was just the kind of person you wish every Notre Dame's prestigious quarterly journal of political philosophy, described him as "a remarkable person. He had a wonderful sense of self­depricating humor and was just astoundingly brilliant for the early generation of Notre Dame 
The Observer Friday, October 16, 1992 

page 4 
Macleod chair of a fund raiser 
By JOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
Notre Dame Head Basketball John MacLeod was named honorary chairman of the "You've Got to Be Kidding" fundraiser for the United Health Services (UHS) to be held in Joyce Athletic and Con­vocation Center tonight. 
Coach MacLeod will be running the fundraiser's basketball tournament. 
"I'm happy to be involved in this event," MacLeod said, "and hope people are excited by, what may be for many, a first or once-in-a-lifetime chance to play basketball at Notre Dame." 
"We wanted to ask somebody with local visibility," said Mary Jo Finley of the United Health Services. 
Anticipating a paying crowd of nearly 300 in addition to the numerous corporate sponsors, Finley and the UHS hope to raise $30,000 to benefit the five umbrella affiliates of the UHS, the Cancer Society, Diabetes Association, Hearing and Speech Center, Open Door Programs, and Arthritis society. Proceeds will help to provide health support services to more than 5,000 people, said Finley. 
r,. .rP.;.
,~.0~~':\A., _s,.'<..~ ~cf'~'lf 
...-~ ~· 
,b ~ 
'~v~91 Looking for 
"o Campus Bands Call 233-7747 After 3 p.m. 
1 mile east of campus 

THE ARMY NURSING CHALLENGE. 
You've worked hard for your BSN. You'd like to continue the challenge. That's what Army Nurs­ing offers ...professional challenges. 
Plus new study opportunities, continuing education, travel. And you'll have the respect and prestige accorded an officer in the United States Army. 
If you're working on your BSN or already have a BSN, talk to your Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
Call 

(219) 844--3990 ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 
Health 
continued from page 1 
agreed that a "pay or play" plan would not shield workers from the costs of health care. Small businesses would face new costs they might not be able to handle, he said. The businesses might accommodate these costs through lower wages. 
But Betson characterized the President's plan as just as inadequate in easing the strain on the public's pocketbooks ­and totally incapable of cover­ing everyone fully. 
"Clearly if you're going to guarantee a thousand dollars in tax credits, that wouldn't go very far," Betson said. "Even for an individual, I would be very surprised if you could get a single non-group coverage that would cover most of the possible things you would need health insurance for." 
And Bush's tax credits would increase the deficit, he said. In the end, "it's a question of how you want to pay for these things," Betson said. 
The economics professor fa­vors more drastic changes than does either party candidate. The Canadian system not only provides coverage for everyone, he said, but limits doctors' fees and administrative costs. 
Less radical than the Cana­dian system, but still a signifi­cant improvement, Betson said, would be for the federal government to cover health costs not merely for the elderly, but for the young. 
Thomas Troeger, M.D. with the South Bend Center for Medical Education says doctors' 
Less than halfthe cost of other programs! 

More than 40 hours of intensive strategy instruction to help you score higher 
Tuesdays. 6 -10 p.m. Nov. 3 to Dec. l IUSB Administration Bldg . 

REGISTRATION & INFORMATION: CALL 237-4261 
Division of Continuing Education Indiana University South Bend 1700 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 

EARN $2,000 +FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! North America's #1 Student Tour Operator seeking motivated students, organizations, fraternities and sororities as campus representatives promoting Cancun or Daytona Beach! 
Calll-800-365-4654 

fees are not the problem with the health care system. 
"The fees are not rising be­yond the inflation rate, but the overall cost (of medical care) is increasing because of the tech­nology of treatments, and the number of people receiving care," he said. "The costs for Medicare are increasing." 
Troeger said his most fun­damental concern, as a physi­cian, is that "if (health care) be­comes more regulated, it will become something that is un­der-funded." 
He credits two programs im­plemented under the Bush Administration. The Resource Based Relative Value system is now being phased in, Troeger said. 
It was drawn up by a commit­tee, which "tried to take into account doctors' expenses, ed­ucation, malpractice, staff, of­fice equipment, to come up with a (fee) schedule... for, say, an appendectomy or open heart surgery," he said. 
The Physician Payment Re­view Commission limits the amount physicians may in­crease their fees each vear for patients on Medicare. ~rhe im­pact of these programs has not yet been felt, Troeger said. 
These programs alone, though, won't revitalize the system, Troeger said. Eventu­ally, "society is going to have to decide what they're going to pay for." 
BILL FRANK 
NISSAN•SUZUKI•SUBARU 
15% Student Discount with 1.0. FREE Shuttle Service to and from Campus 
•Brakes 
• Tune up ·Tires 

•Exhaust 
•Alignments •Oil & Filter 

•No 
Job Too Little or Btg! 

•We 
accept credit cards 

•We 
service any make or model 

•We 
can make arrangements with your parents long distance 51176 U.S. 33 North South Bend 




4.5 miles north ol Notre Dame caflllu& 
277-5800 
Save SlS() a ~ear-
Efficiencies now from just $255 
1-Bedrooms now from just $270 
2-Bedrooms now from just $330 
Just Minutes From Notre Dame! 
If you're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we11 show you beautiful, affordable apartment livingl 
HICKORY ~
.VIUJIAI :_ " EOISON-~8 
-+----r McKINLEY 
JEFFERSON 
+ 
Clubhouse & Pool 

+ 
A'l Conditioning 

+ 
Cable TV Available 

+ 
Laundry Rooms 

+ 
Pia1ic Tables & GrUis 


+Gazebo 
+ 
Basketball & Volleyball Court 

+ 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
Planned Activities Program 


272-lSS() 
rfUCKORU mDlLLA~E 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison. 
§~VI:~~ ~[)[)ITif)~~L Sl~! 
Bring this ad when you apply tor an apartment and the $15 application tee will be waived.
.. 
Mon.-Fri. 9-7, Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 


Christine, Honey: 
We wish you all the happiness in the world on your 18th Birthday on October 15th. 
You are always in our hearts and our minds. 
With Love, Your Dearest Mom, Dad and Sis 

L_ 

-
I . '.­
Business 

Friday, October 16, 1992 page 5 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Recession contributes to illness ... 

Consumer prices climb slightly 
• WASHINGTON -Con ·er prices edged up a 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A sour increasing 3.1 percent. have had during 1990~1992. modest 0.2 percent in Sep , the smalJ~stgain 
economy contributes to tens of It also results in a 6. 7 percent That research squares roughly since July, despite sharply )) tice!l f9r ftP.its and 
thousands of deaths from heart increase in homicides, a 3.4 with a separate study done by M. vegetables, the governmell~'(~i.i;lJI'hur.sday. J:he Labor 
disease, stroke, suicide and percent boost in violent crimes and Harvey Brenner, a professor of Department sai.d that the ·...·· .... her increase in its 
drinking. It also makes people a 2.4 percent rise in crimes against health policy and management at Consumer Price Index foHn a 0.3 percent August 
mean and turns some of them into property. Johns Hopkins University. He is rise and left inflation rising aUlD. annual rate ofjust 2.9 
criminals, a pair of studies say. Put another way, that means an presenting his findings, based on percent through the first fi months ofthis year. 
"The recession has indeed increase of 17,654 deaths annually 1989~90 data, at a Harvard Economists said the 0.2 pe ~!D~er cti3f!Se in 
exacted a high cost in terms of from heart disease, 1,386 from conference Friday. inflation, wbi9ll was the mancqi .. . aQ.l 
these social pathologies," wrote stroke, 730 homicides, 31,304 Brenner found that annual percent Jul~:Increase, ·. . •...... . that the stagnant 
Mary Merva and Richard Fowles, violent crimes, and 111,775 deaths from heart disease and economy was continuing to ke~P ~Jid on prices. 
assistant professors of economics property crimes such as robbery stroke go up 17,800, there are an at the University of Utah. and stealing cars, they calculated. additional 1,170 suicides and Merva and Fowles found that an The two economists analyzed another 760 homicides when increase of one percentage point in crime and mortality statistics in 30 unemployment and business the unemployment rate results in metropolitan areas from 1976 failures rise and personal income death from heart disease rising 5.6 through 1990, and then projected drops by specific amounts 

ending Oct. 3 tfi . lowestlevel in seven WeekS: The 
percent and death from stroke what results their findings would characteristic of a recession. decline of 16,000 left the P.Un;tber of new Americans filing first~time jobless elaifi!~ tit 383,000. While it marked the second straight~~~Idy decliP.~t;,~nalysts 
...but U.S. charities remain healthy

said the number of newly. ained WASHINGTON (AP) -The O'Connell, president of the error rate for the sample wasat a high level, ~nderiJc 
· in economy has affected Americans' coalition of corporate, foundation given as plus or minus 3the economy,., 
ability to give, but the charitable and voluntary organizations percentage points. spirit remains strong and the drop concerned with philanthropy and Fifteen percent of contributing

Stockholders to have mhre say 
in donations has not been as large volunteer work . households said they gave 5 as many expected, a philanthropic "The overall message is that in percent or more of their income in organization said in a survey the past two very rough years for 1991, about the same as in 1989. released Thursday. so very many Americans, we have Fifty~one percent, also about the 
The nonprofit organization remained a very caring society," same as before, said they gave 1 Independent Sector said the O'Connell said. percent or more. average contribution for all "Those Americans who are People in 51 percent of households in 1991 was $649, a generous continue to remain households did some volunteer drop of 12 percent from the 1989 steady in good times and bad," work, down slightly from the 54 

shareholde.r rights, That c average of $734. said Virginia Hodgkinson, vice percent reported in 1989. The news reports of lucrati· Of the 72 percent of households president for research of Inde~ number of hours of volunteer work some corporate executives eve~ \Vhen .··.··... .. .·.·.· ny's that contributed to charity, the pendent Sector. per week was up slightly, from an profits are down or its stock pti,~es have dropped. "A average was $899, or 2.2 percent average of four hours to an system that was supposed to some­of income, compared with $978, or The survey was conducted by the average of 4.2. times workS to insulate 2.5 percent of income, in 1989. Gallup Organization, which A smaller proportion of lower from accountability "Many of us expected this might interviewed 2,671 adults in their income households contributed Chairman Richard HN!ed•,et be very much worse," said Brian homes from April 3 to May 17. The than did those with more money. 
L-----------------~~~--~~------~ 
Center tries to bring Christian values to business world 
By NICK RIOS values into business around the will eventually make an impact have to the consumer. Business Writer world." in the future," said Williams. "I encourage every under­"We are doing things that Some of the past issues the graduate student in business to 
The Center for Ethics and have never been attempted Center has been concerned with take at least one course that the Religious Values in Business anywhere else, we are trying to are ethics in investing, center has to offer. It has been a seeks to build a bridge among find the melting point between companies' responsibility to the change of pace for me and I am business, business studies and theology and business," said people in poor developing coun­sure it will have a great impact the humanities. Houck. tries, and many others. on you," Hood said. 
According to Father Oliver Williams said that the Center According to Doug Hood, an In the future Williams would Williams, director of the Center, tries to attract companies to MBA student at Notre Dame, like to see more of the faculty "The Center primarily engages give lectures on religious and Houck is trying to get successful involved in this program. He in activities designed integrate ethical values hoping that by and goal oriented students to would also like to see other de­religious values in business." doing so the companies can see what the cost of a product is partments, especially the Law start to reflect on what they are to a human being and to society School, create similar pro­
Professor John Houck, co-di­doing right and what they are as a whole. He added that in grams. rector of the Center, added not. order to be an effective Houck said that through the "going back to the 19th century "We may not be making a business person one has to Center, Notre Dame is the Center has been the leader huge impact on the world busi­consider not only profit, but "becoming the Cathedral of in trying to bring back religious ness right now, but by placing also the value the product will Business Ethics." 
Social Security recipients will receive boost in average monthly payments 
WASHINGTON (AP) -About 44 million "The COLA helps keep one from going further n:at• boost Americans on Social Security will get a 3 percent into hock," Higgins said. "But the COLA, as nice cost~of-living increase next year, averaging $19 a as it is, is not enough." month. Members of Congress will see their Higgins also said that incomes of many of his paychecks go up 3.2 percent, or $345 monthly. retirement community neighbors have been cut 
George Chapin, director of payroll in the House by falling interest rates. sergeant-at-arms office, said the congressional "While a low inflation rate is good news, it is cost-of-living increase would boost congressional overshadowed by the fear of many older salaries from $129,500 to $135,644. Americans who live on fixed incomes and are 
Federal judges and top administration officials plagued by higher health care costs and lower will get the same percentage increase. interest income from savings and investments," 
But the Social Security Administration said said Horace Deets, executive director of the benefits for retirees and disabled persons would American Association of Retired Persons. rise just 3 percent. 
For many Social Security recipients, the cost~of­Michael Evans, head of a Washington economic living adjustment -the smallest COLA in six forecasting firm, said many pensioners "are years-won't match the increases in health care getting killed by higher property taxes" imposed and other costs that consume much of their by local governments to compensate for tax incomes. bases eroded by declining real estate values. 
Although the 3 percent increase will boost the 

Medical expenses have jumped 7 percent over average monthly Social Security check to $653 the past 12 months, more than twice the 3 from $634, it will be the smallest cost-of-living percent increase in overall consumer prices. The adjustment since 1987, when benefits were benefit increases, beginning with checks to be raised by 1.3 percent. Benefits rose 3. 7 percent delivered on Dec. 31, are designed to offset infla~ in 1992 and 5.4 percent in 1991. 
The author of the 27th 

tion. The Social Security adjustment, legislated by Amendmep.t. founding fatherGeorge Higgins, an 87-year~old retiree in Congress, is based on increases in the Consumer 
ames Madison, thought H

McLean, Va., said growing medical care, particu­Price Index. Congressional, federal judiciary and 
nseemlji~.;., for

larly the cost of prescriptions, represent the administrative COLAs are adjusted according to a a sitting 
:nn.:rrAj~~ to take a pay raise.

largest monthly expense for his wife and himself. formula based on the Employment Cost Index. 


~----~-~-------------­
r 
Viewpoint 

page 6 Friday, October 16, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ..•..•.•.•••••........ David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike. Hobbes Viewpoint Editor •••.••............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .•.....•.... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ......................•. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
* A FEATURE FIL/V\ *'' -­
A\~Y M~ttG~ FiOlioNAl.\tW 
Sfe1\('f Of \-\\UAt-\ 1R\ON\f>H 
:e~\b\tr \o Yoo eY A. 1NL.Y 
a'iWtOlS., Offt;NS\~ Al'lD A~ 
A~~o ~'}\~~~ ~·CAM~ 
f\lM ~. 
~J'./11 I 

Drunken Neanderthals looked like ND students 
Job opportunities for PhDs? 
chose to criticize the Pope. 
Perhaps O'Connor, herself a victim of child abuse, is in­censed over recent reports al­leging the Catholic Church has repeatedly covered up incidents of child abuse and sexual mis­conduct by priests. 
Or perhaps, as an avowed feminist, she disagrees with the refusal of the Catholic Church to allow capable women to become priests solely on the basis of their gender. 
The point is, her reasons do not matter. The First Amend­ment gives O'Connor the right to speak out against the Pope, the Catholic Church or even (heaven forbid) the University of Notre Dame if she chooses. 
I was also amused by the suggestion that NBC owes all Catholics an apology by virtue of the fact that it televises Notre Dame football games. 
The relationship between NBC and Notre Dame is the same relationship NBC has with every other show it broadcasts ­Notre Dame allows NBC to televise its games, and NBC pays Notre Dame a handsome sum of money. 
To suggest that NBC owes Notre Dame anything, after paying them approximately $35 million dollars, is ludicrous. 
Furthermore, a Notre Dame football game is a sports pro-

Dear Editor: 
I'm writing this letter in re­sponse to the behavior of four Keenan/Stanford young men on the morning of Oct. 9, 1992. 
After driving around the en­tire south 02 lot and finding no spaces, my friends and I sig­naled to these "gentlemen" to drive on to the north lot. 
After they had parked, one of these young men approached us and asked if we had given him "the finger." Once we told him the true meaning of our gesture, he insisted on what he had seen. 
Ignoring him and his gang, we walked away, following a different path. But, much to our surprise, he and his buddies ran after us, began to quicken their strides until they were lit­erally stepping on our heels, and started spitting at us. How­ever, the harassment did not end here. These four Catholic(?) 
Notre Dame men followed us practically to the door of Breen Phillips. 
Now, I don't doubt that alco­hol was the instigator in this whole event. However, if one cannot consume alcoholic bev­erages and still behave in a non-Neanderthal manner, he/she should not drink. 
The bottom line is that any­one who attends this school, a university which extols Catholic virtues, is expected to behave in a Christian manner. It is really sad that our attempt to be kind was shoved in our faces. 
I think these men have by now realized how childish they behaved on the morning of Oct. 9, and I can only hope that they will learn to behave more like the intelligent, adult Christians that the ND community expects them to be. 
A lady from Breen Phillips October 9, 1992 

DOONESBURY 
MR. P&'?tlT, I WON/?t3R IFMJ COUto 77UI<. ABCVT 7H/3 VlflNAM NAI< M/3­
MORJAL-RJR A 1110A1£NT... 
gram, not a religious broadcast. 
Just how far does McCarthy wish to extend this "special" re­lationship between NBC and Notre Dame? 
Perhaps NBC can agree that the NBC Nightly News, Dateline NBC, and other network pro­grams will no longer air the views of Patricia Ireland, Sarah Weddington and others who criticize the Catholic Church's abortion policies. 
In addition, NBC could refuse to televise Martin Scorcese's "The Last Temptation of Christ", Madonna's "Truth or Dare," or any other movies that many Catholics find scandalous. 
At a time when tolerance for censorship is on the rise in America, I am saddened that students at Notre Dame would contribute to this atmosphere. 
If you don't like what Sinead O'Connor and NBC have to say, change the channel. But please don't try and limit the right of O'Connor or others to speak. 
Surely you have more impor­tant things to do. If not, I might suggest reading a banned book. Salman Rushdie's "The Satanic Verses" comes to mind. 
Pam Smith Class of 1989 ND Law Class of 1992 Hermosa Beach, CA October 1 0, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
AN(} 7HAT YOU 
OFTeN /?fftf?REP 
70 7HffMONU/rf:NT'5 A51AN-AMERICAN 
ll8S!GN/3R A5 
''f:6GROU-'~t 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'A joyous going forth often brings a sorroful return; and a merry late evening makes a sad morning.' 
Imitations of Christ 
Bk. 1 XX, 35 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


Viewpoint

Friday, October 16, 1992 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Coming out' is particularly difficult at ND/SMC 
Dear Editor: 
The recent celebration of Na­tional Coming Out Day makes this a perfect time to address the issues involved in coming out as a lesbian or gay man in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
The process of coming out can be particularly difficult on these two campuses. Many gay and lesbian students, trapped in isolation and silence, remain "in the closet" and find themselves frightened, con­fused, depressed, and very alone. 
It's easy to succumb to feelings of self-hatred and hopelessness when one lives in a predominantly heterosexual environment that denies the existence of , or is downright hostile toward, gays and les­bians. 
Think about it for a moment. Try to imagine what it would be like to have to live in fear, to pretend to be something you are not, and to lie or withhold information about something as ordinary as who you hung out with or where you went last weekend, all for fear of being discovered. 
Think about the burden of having to hide your true feelings from roommates, 
friends, family, everyone around you. If you are able to imagine what this would be like, perhaps you will have more compassion and consid­eration for gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
Most people would agree that a basic level of human decency precludes people from making race or gender-based insults when people who are the brunt of such insults are nearby. 
Of course, we should not make such comments at all, and many people do not. However, these attitudes are not uniform with respect to homosexuality. Because gays and lesbians are the "invisible minority", people cannot recognize them by sight and tend to assume their igno­rance of the nature of homo­sexuality by cruel jokes, gener­alizations and insults. 
These are upsetting enough to those of us who are comfortable with our sexuality and realize they are the product of ignorance; however, we think nothing could be more hurtful to a closeted lesbian or gay man than to hear one's peers, even the closest of one's friends, make cruel homophobic comments. 
Please watch what you say. You do not know that your roommate, your best friend, or even a family member is not gay or lesbian. And if you are a caring human being, you won't want to hurt those you love, regardless of your preconceived notions on homosexuality. 
If someone you know chooses to confide in you, the best re­sponse is simply to continue being a good friend and to offer support. You will be helping that individual feel so much better about him or herself. 
If you have difficulty understanding homosexuality, please take the time to educate yourself on the issue. The more you know, the less you will rely on myths ~nd stereotypes that color your feeling about gays and lesbians. You will realize that lesbians and gay men are not some sort of horrible monsters, but rather are ordinary people, and hopefully you will treat them as such. 
When you do, you will be creating a positive change not only within yourself, but also within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. Perhaps one day, no one will have to live in fear. 
We would like to emphasize that coming out is ultimately a positive process that can result in increased self-esteem and personal growth. If you are lesbian or gay, please know that there are many others like you. 
An informal support group, run by and composed of students, exists and is here for you. We would like you to know that YES, you can live a happy, productive, full life as a lesbian or gay man, and you most cer­tainly are not alone. 
Kelly A. Smith Off-Campus Kirsten M. Dunne Fischer Graduate Residences Oct. 12, 1992 


Collegiate Jazz Festival is a valid and important 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Catherine Danahy's recent let­ter to the editor regarding the Collegiate Jazz Festival, and have sent her the same thoughts. 
I was chairperson of the 1969 festival, worked on the previous three in various capacities, and performed at the Festival in 1963, '64, and '65 as a member of the Notre Dame High School Melodons. I have A.B. and M.A. degrees in music from Notre Dame. 
We used to think that bands who performed at the Collegiate Jazz Festival were motivated by prizes and glory. As time passed, and the big instrument prizes were no longer available, we found that not to be true. 
While "winning" still was somewhat of a motivator, these musicians were really seeking a way to put their art, which appeals to a select taste, before an appreciative audience. 
No small part of this was the fact that there would be judges who were at the top of the jazz world, with whom they could interact, who would comment on their work, and who would possibly "discover" them. 
In the same way as the plays produced in Washington Hall, the Festival contributes to per­petuating an important art form which the commercial world does not always support. 
To the extent that the Collegiate Jazz Festival fulfills this artistic function, I believe that it is a valid and important activity of the University of Notre Dame. 
There are ways that the Fes­tival can give something back to the University. It exposes Notre Dame to groups that might not otherwise have a relationship with it. The jazz programs at North Texas State University and the University of Northern Iowa, among others, are renowned. 
To us, it is an honor having them perform here. To them the name "Notre Dame" is magic, and a successful festival can give Notre Dame a new and special relationship with numerous other universities. 
Finally, the Collegiate Jazz Festival can attract to the cam­pus a special audience who might not have any other rea­son to come. 
One never knows the extent of beneficial fallout that can come out of providing a positive experience for outsiders on our campus. 
One suggestion-I've always felt that the audience for jazz, though relatively small, is very motivated. I feel many more would come, and would travel surprising distances, if more effort were spent making the festival known in as many me­dia outlets as possible. 
Gregory J. Mullen, Ph.D. Highland Park, IL Oct. 4, 1992 

Libertarian candidate being excluded 
Dear Editor: 
Whatever one thinks of the ruling Democratic-Republican party, one has to have a grudging respect for its ability to censor the media. Today on the radio, I heard voters, dis­couraged after listening to the Vice-Presidential debate, com­plaining about their three op­tions in the upcoming presiden­tial election! 
If the media gave fair coverage to the election campaigns, they would have heard of Andre Marrou, the Libertarian party candidate and his running mate, Nancy Lord. The Libertarian party is the largest political party in the country, after the ruling Demo­cratic-Republican party, but that party ensures that it gets little or no media coverage. 
Marrou and Lord were not in­vited to the Presidential and Vice-Presidential debates, de­spite being on the ballot in all 50 states. Given that the Texas megalomaniac is a media dar­ling, has loads o'money, and policies similar to its own, the Democratic-Republican party invited him to its debates, and even he showed how incompe­tent either faction of the ruling party is at running the country. 
They still excluded Marrou. If Perot made them look such id­iots, what would Marrou have done? In 1988 the League of Women Voters, who had orga­nized the Presidential debates for y~ars, was going to invite the Libertarian Party candidate to the Presidential debates, so the Democratic-Republican party set up the Commission on Presidential Debates, to guar­antee that the system of one party rule wasn't threatened. 
And of course, its campaigns are funded by the taxpayer to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars. money that other political parties cannot receive. As a Western European, I am intrigued with the 'democratic' system of government in this country, especially since its propaganda promotes freedom and democracy, and am reminded of another one party system, the former East Germany, which was officially called the Democratic Republic of Germany. 
Anyway, this year the Liber­tarian party hopes to buy net­work time, the only way it can get media coverage. If anyone would care to contribute to this effort, call 1-(800)682-1776 for more information. 
And those of you voting in Indiana might like to vote for Steve Dillon, the Libertarian candidate for U.S. Senate,as an alternative to the Democratic­Republican mudslingers, Coats and Hogsett. It is a pity that reading this letter is, probably, the first thing most of you have 
read candidacy.  or  heard  about  his  
Gra Ulick Stafford duate Student Oct. 14, 1992  

Bush deserves credit for NAFTA 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations are in order to President Bush for having the vision to conceive and complete the North American Free Trade Agreement. NAFTA will reduce barriers to investment, strengthen the protection of intellectual prop­erty rights, and improve upon trade rules to ensure that the 
U.S. firms can reap the full re­wards of the market opportuni­ties the Agreement creates. 
NAFTA will create millions of new, higher paying jobs for Americans while at the same time safeguarding our workers from the import surges which hurt U.S. firms. The Agreement will also enhance envi­ronmental protection because it specifically allows the U.S. to maintain stringent health, safety, and environmental standards, including the right to prohibit imports that do not meet our standards, 

On Oct. 4, Bill Clinton finally announced his qualified "support" for NAFTA, but we cannot be sure he really means it. Clinton has changed his stance on this critical issue eight times at last count as he tries to find which stance will give him the biggest boost in the polls. It is time for slick Willie to come clean. Let the American people know where you really stand. NAFTA was not created by the President to be used as a political tool, but that does not stop Bill Clinton. 
Michael Decker Grace Hall Oct. 9, 1992 
• 


GSU unifies diverse student body 
OCTOBER 16-18 

weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC 

Oliver Syndrome, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m.Cafe Jam Classic Rock, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m."Way Past Tense, Club 23, 10 p.m. 

y 
MUSIC 

South Side Denny and Duke Tomato, Club Shenanigans,1Qp.m.Cafe Jam Classic Rock, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 
9:30p.m. 

Web of Lies, Club 23, to p.m: The Chester String Quartet, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8p.m. 
s 
y 
Quick Change and Open Jam, AD'S Nita Club, 8p.m. 

FRIDAY 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Sneakers, 7 & 9:40 p.m. Slngtes,7:30 & ~l:30 p.m.Mr. Baseball, 7 & 9:15 p.m. School Ties, 7:30 & 9:50p.m. 1492,8:00 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Mr. Saturday Night, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m: Under Siege, 7:45 &10 p.m. The Mighty Ducks, 7:30 & 9:40p.m. 
SATURDAY 

UNIVE.RSITY PARdK EAST & WEST
See Friday's sche u e 1 
By EMILY HAGE Accent Writer 
T 
he graduate school at Notre Dame has a more diverse student body than its undergraduate counterpart, with students representing a variety of coun­tries, ages, and religious back­grounds. 
The Graduate Student Union (GSU) serves as a unifying force within the graduate school, lis­tening to students' problems and attempting to solve them. The role of the GSU is comparable to that of both the Student Government and the Student Union Board on the under­graduate level. In addition to organizaing social activities, it also addresses major issues of concern to its constituents. 
The GSU, which represents all graduate students at the University, is composed of a president, vice-president, sec­retary, and treasurer. Most of the departments (approximately 27 total) select representatives to the Graduate Student Council through election by students or selection by the department. The council brings issues before the GSU for discussion. 
"All of us [graduate students] have committed ourselves to the ideals of higher education and we should find time to improve the program for our sake and for the students who come after us," said John-Paul Checkett, the Secretary and Informational Manager of the GSU. 
Depending on the issues at stake, graduate student partici­pation with the GSU varies. "It may be more of a challenge to get graduate students more in­volved," said Checkett. Graduate students often find themselves inundated with other activities; in addition to keeping grueling academic schedules, they work as teacher assistants, research assistants, discussion leaders, and freshmen seminar teachers. 
Health care is one of the major issues facing graduate students at Notre Dame. The University administration demands that all graduate students must have health insurance; if they do not, they must buy the university program, which costs $300 a year. This plan does not cover spouses and children, however, meaning that they must pay a higher price. 
Many students, especially at University Village, have no in­surance for their spouses or their families. Often, they depend on social services and food stamps, according to Checkett. GSU's Health Care Committee wants the University to subsidize health insurance. Meetings with Nathan Hatch, dean of the graduate school, and Associate Dean Jim Powell, are in progress. 
Child care is another vital issue graduate students are con­fronting this year. Presently, the most attractive option for graduate students is the Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's College, but many 
'All of us have committed ourselves to the ideals of higher education and we should find time to improve the program for our sake and for the students who come after us.' 
-John-Paul Checkett 
students are on the waiting list and have no other options for their children. 
Graduate students need "affordable, reliable, and safe child care," said Checkett. The Give Kids a Chance Coalition and GSU are currently working with the administration to resolve the situation. 
Other GSU committees en­hance areas of graduate life in which undergraduates do not necessarily share. For example, a Travel Grant Committee exists to use money from the graduate student fee that the administration collects to help send graduate students to con­ferences. 
One of GSU's many committees, the Women's Resource Committee of the GSU, is one of the sponsors of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. The aim of the group is to establish a woman's center on campus. 

If Notre Dame is to be taken seriously as a university, it needs to build up its graduate school program, said Checkett. The University's graduate school is trying to fortify its academic reputation without sacrificing the standard of graduate students. 
"It's a tough dilemma. You want to attract quality people, but we also want to help the people who are already here," said Checkett. 
Checkett said the administra­tion should recognize that graduate students should be treated differently from under­graduate students. "Notre Dame must realize that there is a large age difference and de­velopmental difference. In loco parentis is foolish when you're 35 years old," said Checkett. 
Though graduate students are not subject to parietals and they are permitted to serve alcohol at their social gatherings under the understanding that all present are over 21, restrictions come across "in subtle ways," said Checkett. 
Checkett added that under­graduate students at Notre Dame are concerned that the growth of the graduate program will lessen the quality of the undergraduate program. "There appears to be some resentment that is based on a lack of understanding," he said. 
He suggested, "People auto­matically equate a building up of graduate programs will hurt the quality of the undergraduate program, but it can go either way." 
According to Checkett, who teaches a freshman seminar, an improved graduate student program could improve the undergraduate program, especially if graduate students are willing to teach. "I think we can pass something on that is valuable, not detrimental," said Checkett. 

page 9 





By KENYA JOHNSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Aside from determining that they are definitely not living at home, absolutely not staying in South Bend, and by all means not working in the same Dairy Queen that they have for the past three summers, undergraduate students have a tough decision to make after graduation: what to do with their lives? 
Some fellow peers do have their act together and a job waiting for them. Others wait anxiously by the phone or mailbox for a response from a company, any company. 
And some scurry around aim­lessly. Well scurry no more friends, for there is always the possibility of a couple of more years: graduate school. 
Enough of the moans and groans or the boos and hisses, graduate school is not that awful. 
Susan Dakin, a social psychology graduate student, came to Notre Dame for graduate school right after graduating from Ithaca College. 
"It's a competitive country and I realized if I want a good job, I have to put in some more time," said Dakin. 
Yes, it is more time; possibly 
another two to six years, de­
pending on the field of study. Isn't 
four years of college enough? Isn't 
four years at $18,000 a year 
enough? Fear not. 
"It depends on the school, but most graduate programs offer a tuition scholarship and a stipend for your research or teaching assistance," said electrical engineering graduate student Chris Bett. "It's not as much of a burden as some people think." 
Bett, like Dakin, decided on graduate school to open his ca­reer opportunities, but he worked for one year before he took the plunge. 
"I think it was better to take a break for a while," he said. "I didn't have to open books for a while, but the time off also re­assured me that I needed to go back for graduate education." 
Now that there's a slight pos­sibility of deciding on graduate school, here are some tips from Dr. Nathan Hatch, vice president of Notre Dame graduate studies. 
•The top priority is faculty recommendations, according to Hatch. "When the faculty of the department looks over the ap­plications, they are very attentive to what previous professors have to say," he said. "There's nothing impressive about a non-specific recommendation." 
Suggestion: Maintain close re­lations with a few professors in you major. 
• Equally important is the statement of intent (aka purpose statement or statement of interest). "It expresses the quality of the student's mind," Hatch explained. "It gives the readers a sense of who the student is." 
Suggestion: Have the statements read and critique by other faculty members. 
•Before deciding on a graduate program, research the department well. "An unheard of college may have the nation's best graduate program in one department," Hatch said. "Be sure you know what you're applying to well." 
Suggestion: Ask around. Most faculty, especially in the specific department, will know the best places to study. 
Social life redefined for graduate students 
By BILL FEKRAT when most students do not have the time for Accent Writer frequent road trips or dinners outings; in­stead, the organization provides veryday they stroll across the opportunities for graduate students to meet
E campus. They are in the classrooms, outside of work and school to gather and the dining halls, and the Huddle. meet one another. They lurk near by at movies, and One of these organized efforts is a monthly 
share the benches at the football games. party at Wilson Commons, in the Grace­They look just like everyone else. O'Hara graduate residences. 
But here really isn't any reason to make GSU is also proposing plans to increase such a fuss-they aren't Martians, after all. social contact between graduates and Just graduate students. undergraduates. For most graduate 
Notre Dame's graduate school program students, interaction with undergraduates is facilitates approximately 1300 students, usually limited to more professional relations fairly evenly distributed through all academic in classes and tutorials. departments, although Arts and Letters areas "We would like to see an 'Over-21 Formal', account for a large percentage of these stu­where both graduates and undergraduates dents. could get together and have the opportunity 
In general. graduate students, like their undergraduate counterparts, are looking for a good education, but they tend to find 'Once a week we meet to discuss themselves in a unique transition period 
our teaching, but we also talk about 
between the carefree days of college life and the responsibility of joining the "real world". other classes and the general The typical college social life often fades 
adjustment to graduate life.' 
away in graduate school, but in its place 
-Rachel Dines
these students find interactions among others who are setting the future courses of their lives. to meet and mingle," said Mike Kelly, 
The workload makes a big difference in president of the GSU. how graduate students are able to meet and Work is not the only responsibility for interact with each other. Sometimes its graduate students. Many also have the extra difficult for students to mingle outside of responsibility of a family along with their their departments, because their work and studies. A significant number of graduate classes take up so much of their time. students are already married and have 
"Its different from being an undergraduate children. They must carefully balance their in some ways," said Rachel Dines, a graduate time between class, work, and home. student in Romance Languages. "My typical day consists of spending all day 
"Most of us have a clearer idea of what we on campus getting my work done, then going want to do with the rest of our lives, and we home for dinner and spending the evening want to get as much out of this part of our with my kids," said government graduate 
education as we can," Dines explained. student Brian Burchett. "There just isn't a 
Work offers the opportunity for students to whole lot of time for many social activities," share their school experiences. "The other he explained. graduate students in my department all have Kelly agreed, but explained that each grad­classes to teach," said Dines. "Once a week uate student has different circumstances. we meet to discuss our teaching, but we also "There is a lot of diversity between the talk about other classes and the general graduate students, with a lot of varying social adjustment to graduate life," she added. tastes," he said. 
The Graduate Student Union(GSU) serves "You can find us doing many of the same 
some of the needs of graduate students. It things that the undergraduates do. We play would be impractical for the GSU to have a in intramural sports, go out to bars, and go to long list of functions to entertain students, football games, just like everyone else." 
The 


1 
' 
1 
, '~ 
-I 
I I I 
I I I 
1 
I 
I 
I 
, 1 1 , 
1 
l I 
I 
~ 
I 
•. 
~--------------------~----------------~---­
r 
f 
~ 
Friday, October 16, 1992
page 10 

,' 
-
r
, , ' ~ Darby O'Gill Ill meets the fantastic Mr. Fox 
The times when a dog-owner 
which butterflies the size of travelling overnight on a bus' r should be most curious about dinner plates, unicorns with that struck a deer in the
I 
Father Robert Griffin acquamarine eyes, and zebras darkness. A Christian who hadthe behavior of his animal is not 
,I 
when the dog goes bonkers with striped with the colors of the taken Asian as her personal 
barking over nothing, says Letters to a Lonely God rainbow ran loose on London's Savior explained that the deer ,'I Chesterton, but when the dog Charing Cross Road. These could have come through the 
stays perfectly calm, although were the archetypes, seen by us door out of Narrria, sacrificing
, 
he has every good reason to go more credible than flying nuns proving God's existence. You in our world only dimly. The itself to slow the bus down, bonkers with barking. That is or rumors of a sun that dances. can't prove the existence of the frontier which prevents these since there was thick ice on the why I'm fascinated by great Once the Christian great god Pan, who was original ideas from entering the road ahead that could have 
I 
self-restraint recently shown by imagination becomes im­presumed to have died on the world of illusion had been caused a bad accident. She Darby O'Gill, a cocker spaniel poverished, the social gospel morning of Christ's Nativity. Yet breached. Before they could said that on battlefields which known to get hyper if a falling which obliges us to be kind to the woodland creatures, not ruin mankind with their glory, Asian was guarding, dogs were leaf tries to pass him unnoticed. the needy (the true dogma on needing Christ to die for their they had to be led back to the often seen bounding over the About 1:30 a.m. on Tuesday, I which our religion rests) may sins, abide with Pan still, and drawing board. land separating Narnia from
' 
' 
had just called O'Gill in from his be generous, but it can leave us you can meet him as the piper Finally, there are the stories Middle Earth. Their mission,' late-night walk, when I saw this lonely and spiritually hungry. at the gates of dawn, in of God which Hainer Maria from Asian, she said, was to 
I wild thing sashaying up the Christianity, demythologized Kenneth Grahame's nursery Hilke entrusted only to children. move fighting men out of 
I sidewalk in front of Keenan­enough to be fashionable in an classic The Wind in the Willows. The story of what happened to harm's way. 
I I Stanford. age of liberation, starts to look The Findhorn community of the right hand of God is the "Childhood is the kingdom "Mother of Christ!" I yelled. like a program offering free spinners in Scotland claim story of Christ in His passion. where nobody dies./Nobody that
I "What is it?" lunches to working mothers. Grahame's chapter on Pan as a This is Dostoyevsky's matters, that is." A student said, "It looks like a The Christians who have done part of Holy Scripture. Christ-"who wanders over the The earliest casualty of lost 
I 
I fox." most to help the Church save its The growing boy whom earth unrecognized and childhood is religious faith gone 
I I have never seen a fox close soul are the saints and poets Wordsworth celebrates as persecuted and yet can never to hell; usually, it matters quite up, but the wild creature who have written of children, or Nature's high priest comes be extinguished." a lot. That's why you must be seemed to have all the to children, or stayed young-in­trailing clouds of glory from You'll pardon me for thinking born again, so that you can 
earmarks. Foxes are famous for heart themselves. God, Who is his home. He is no that I know the Christ of whom begin the faith-life over as stealing chickens; and there Francis of Assisi was the most stranger to the shepherd Rilke writes. I think I have though you were a little child. wasn't a chick to be had in K. -S. child-like and Christ-like of all familiar to pagans suckled in a made His acquaintance, and As soon as you start discarding 
at that hour of night. So why the saints. Because of his on­creed outworn. Though the seen the deep glow of His gaze. the myths you loved when you was this chicken thief here, going joyfulness, he is Church has banished his cult, How can He not be the Lonely were young, shades of the checking us out boldly, as remembered as the first of the the Pan pipes can still be heard God, who has Darby O'Gill as prison house started closing though we were the intruders flower children for teaching us in the groves sacred to him, I lis lowly and humble servant? around you. 
that deserved shooting? to love the universe as a though not by Christians. If I knew which network of Remember, please, as you When we went upstairs to get sacrament where the the Holy In Narnia, according to the nature or grace the fantastic start semester break, that the ready for bed, I became mindful Ghost dwells fresh, deep down Chronicles written by C.S. Mr. Fox obeys, I could venture a Lonely God travels well. He of how unruffled my beastie in the dearest heart of things. Lewis, the great lion Asian is guess as to why he came doesn't become the sweet had stayed during the eyeball­William Blake, possibly Lord. In the parables and moonlighting around Stanford. memory of a faith experience to-eyeball encounter with the England's greatest religious stories written by Martin Bell, If I were a child who loves the that you think defines you, unblinking trespasser, which poet, wrote songs of innoence the great silver Wolf-eyes improbable, I might imagine whose afterglow will fade as should have left him pounding and songs of the Lamb; in those flashing, majestic, ever present, that fox to be Asian's emissary, soon as you leave Notre Dame. the pavement into a quagmire verses, it's the beauty of the mysterious"-is his contem­sent to ask Darby, the Lonely Live in His presence, even if 
with indignation. Why did the Lamb which lights the porary counterpart. God's servant, some ecumenical you're in hell, as though time dog stay so quiet? children's faces. C.S. Lewis makes us mindful questions about the coming of were a sacrament. 
As adults, Americans are "The Great Bear is looking so that the doors between worlds the dark Russian Christ. Welcome the ghosts which quick to say that they enjoy geometrical/One would think can be left open, to allow Wouldn't this explain why my revisit you from childhood, visiting Fantasyland, but they something or other could be visitors to come from foreign dog held his bark recently, remembering that even the dry wouldn't want to live there. proved," wrote Christopher Fry. countries to our darkling plain. when one of Asian's talking bones of Pooh-bear, left 
Religious myths seem less Thinking geometrically, the Charles Williams, one of the animals entered his orbit to bleaching in the sun, can live credible than flying saucers; Churchmen of the Middle Ages Oxford Christians called dance by the light of the moon? again to keep you alive with flying saucers, though, are developed the syllogisms Inklings, wrote of a summer in A few years ago, I was Christ's grace. 
1631 Edison Rd. -South Bend 277-8338 
IHC>URS i 10-9 11-7 LMon-Sat Sunday 
:'~~&@K~~
1
,RECORDS 
I I 1 631 Edison I South Bend I 277-8338 1 
$2.00 
off all 
CDs 
Exclud•s Sal• lt•ms, Slngl•s, Us•d & Imports 
..._ _____________Coupon Explra: 10/30192 ., 


----------------------·---------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------,
1 1 
I 
1
Friday, October 16, 1992 The Observer page 11 
I 
I 
Penn State and Boston College ready for confrontation 
~ 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) ­
There are some things you should know if you're handi­capping Saturday's game be­tween the 20th-ranked Boston 
College Eagles and the ninth­ranked Penn State Nittany Lions. 
During coach Joe Paterno's 26-year reign, the Nittany Lions are 47-3 against teams with bird nicknames (Owls, Eagles, Hawkeyes, Falcons, Jayhawks and Cardinal). 
In addition: 
-In the month of October under Paterno, Penn State is 
91-19. -Penn State leads series 19­
1. The only. Boston College vic­tory came in 1963. 
-Penn State has won 21 straight on homecoming week­end. This is homecoming weekend. 
-Penn State is 7-2 against Big East teams, both losses to powerhouse Miami. 
Boston College is 4-0-1 this season with the wins over teams with a combined record of 5-16 and a tie with West Virginia. 
Penn State is 5-1, with the five victories over teams with a combined record of 3-19. 
Meanwhile, a Penn State spokesman said Thur:Sday it appeared quarterback John Sacca (bruised collai"bone) would play, but that place­kicker Craig Fayak probably won't because of an aching back. 
In addition, Kerry Collins, the No. 1 quarterback who has been sidelined all season with a severely damaged index finger on his passing hand, could be ready if needed. 
Paterno's big job this week was boosting the morale of his squad after a tough 17-14 loss to Miami that snapped the Lions' 11-game winning streak and 14-game home winning streak. 
"I talked quite frankly with them and told them that it (the Miami game) was a game they could have won, but there was nothing we could do about that," Paterno said. "And there was no sense sitting and feeling sorry for ourselves ... second­guessing ourselves, pointing a finger at people. Let's just sit down and go back to work and show people what kind of team we have." 
Boston College comes in with some imposing numbers and performances. 
The Eagles have a running attack that is averaging 269 yards a game, better than Penn State's 242. Running backs Chuckie Dukes and Dwight Shirley have accounted for 200 yards a game between them. Quarterback Glenn Foley has connected on 61 percent of his passes for 909 yards and six touchdowns. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Arthur Victor Painting Inc. is looking  NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam  Got$$$  Happy 19th Birthday Hez!  
NOTICES  for Branch Managers for summer '93. Experience helpful but not  x4842  Need 4 PENN ST GAs Call Ben at x3797  Love: AL, CD, & Ralph  
necessary; complete training and  Need One Ticket For Boston  I NEED 1 BC GA,  K.C.­ 
ATIENTION:  field support. High income potential.  College!!! Call273-29671!!  DAVE, x4506  Happy Bday Girl!  
For more information and  800-775-4745  Please Help me...  You're the best!  
assistance regarding the  Will trade 4 BYU tix for 2 BC tix and  Edberg II  
investigation of financing, business  EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  2 Penn St tix. Call (708)665-1827.  I desperately need 4 BYU GA's.  
opportunities and work-at-home  circulars!...Begin NOW!... FREE  If you have them, I want them.  MARGE  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  NEED 2 BC GA's & 2 PS GA's­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
urges its readers to contact the  4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  JOSH X4107-leave message  I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's I!  Call ANDY at 283-1723  ADOPTION -Loving couple wish to  
Better Business Bureau of  Betsy 273-1792 (leave message)  open our hearts & home to your  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE  @@@@@@@@@@@@@  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  baby. Call Nancy collect (317)824­ 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ STUDENT EMPLOYED BY  $$$$$$$$$$$BYU$$$$$$$$$$$  8312.  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN  FOR SALE  NEED BC TICKETS IN BIG WAY!  I NEED 2 BYU GA's  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION  FOR SALE  DEREK SCHNACK X1374  CALL MATI x1741  Loving young couple want to adopt  
AND NEED MANAGERS FOR  $$$$$$$$$$$BYU$$$$$$$$$$$  baby. Mom a teacher will stay home  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT.  We cannot go to the BYU game,  WANTED 3 GA's ND VS BYU  full time. Call Laura/Brian collect  
ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE,  so we are selling our stu tix. Please  1 0/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355­ I Need Lots of BYU tix!  708-482-7576 or 312-220-3194  
TYPING  NILES, THREE  take advantage our misfortune.  7131 RON  Student or GA  
287-4082  RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES  Thank you for your help.  call Cortez: 256-0418  1!!1!!!!!!!!  
EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT  TICKETS NEEDED-tO plus BYU  Please Help Out!  
Do you need a ride to PGH ?  NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD.  Mike 283-1161  GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U  Hobbes is still not 21, too bad  
Leaving Sat after GMATS  AND WORK HARD. AVG.  PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED 2 BYU  some day you'll drink with us  
4648 Maria  EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800­ @@@@@@@@@@@@@  California ALUM desperate for Penn  GA's. Please call Katherine 284­ 
543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH.  State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. ((  4435.  I I II I I I ! I ! !  
Dead Quote of the Week  (415)597-2319  
HURRICANE, RECONSTRUCTION  I NEED PSU GA'S  I STILL NEED BC GA'S IN A BIG,  
"Nothing left to do but  AND CLEANUP, MANY NEEDED.  IT'S GOING TO BE REALLY COLD  Need 15 BYU GA's!  MEGAN 4222  BAD WAY. THE THREAT OF  
smile. smile. smile"  BOTH SKILLED & UNSKILLED.  BY NOV. 21 AROUND HERE. LET  289-7875  PHYSICAL DANGER IS IMMINENT  
MEN & WOMEN. HIGH WAGES.  ME PAY YOU TO SIT IN THE  ••••••Byu•PENN STATE•Bc..••••  IF I DO NOT COME THROUGH  
WordWorks Typing Service  FOR INFO. CALL615-779-5505  COMFORT OF YOUR ROOM OR  Need to trade 2 BC GA's for 2 BYU  FOR SALE: 2 stud tix books for all  FOR MY "FRIENDS."  
Term papers, dissertations, theses  EXT. H541  FAVORITE BAR--ALL YOU HAVE  GA's Call Jim at232-2107-after  remaining games. Will sell all  
277-7406  TO DO IS GIVE ME YOUR PENN  !O:OOpm.  together or each game.  Please save my life.  
ILOST & FOUND!  WANTED: TRAVEL REPS FOR SPRING BREAK. ESTABLISHED COMPANY WITH MANY YEARS EXPERIENCE. EARN MONEY ON  STATE STUDENT TICKET­WHAT A GEAT DEAL! II CALL RICH AT x1005  NEED 4 BYU GA's HEATHER 284­4369  X3346 Lee or Levell PERSONAL  Jenn x4059 saw the mail truck and thought of you I  
LOST: Black and Gold Crucifix  SPARE TIME AND FREE TRIP TO  I have 2 50 yd line BYU GAs &  I need 4 BYU GA's in a bad way.  
(Broken from Chain) If found  CANCUN. CALL 1-800-3SIESTA,  2 BC GAs. I'm looking to trade  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!!  Hey Niff  Doctor and teacher will make  
please call Bill x1131  ASK FOR BONNIE.  for any Penn St GAs. Joe x1395  Chris 273-8470  dreams for your baby come true.  
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
BIG REWARD. no questions asked For my class ring lost 1 0 /1 . If  FOR RENT  FOR SALE! 1-2 stu. tix  I'LL DO ANYTHING! for 1 or 2 GAs to B.C. Lisa 284-5080.  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
found. please call Andrew  sect 34 row 18  family can provide financial security,  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
283-4076.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  234-7667  $$$$$$$$$$  excellent education and wonderful  summer. Art, music, the best  
219-291-7153  Lv. offer  HELPIII  future for your baby. Please let us  education, endless love. Call  
Found: gold colored bracelet found  I NEED 1 GA  help you in this difficult time.  Franny or Stephen collect. (212)  
in front of Alumni. Call Dave at 239·  SECLUDED 4BR, 2BATH  WILL PAY $125  FORBYU  Confidential and legal. Medical  369-2597.  
7018 to claim.  COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  FOR 2 TX TO PENN ST. DALLAS  expenses paid. Collect anytime.  
4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210  ALUM WANTS TO ASK HIS  TIM x2763  (818) 246-1763  Clanc- 
Lost: Water Supply and Sewage  MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE.  FIANCE THE BIG QUESTION  $$$$$$$$$$  Have you been drinking your  
Book (McGhee, 6th ed.) Blue- DEPOSIT. 272-0806.  UNDER THE DOME! CALL 1-800­ PAWN BUY SELL TRADE  "Derry" products lately? It does your  
If found, contact Matt at 277-8178.  745-5402 DURING DAY HOURS.  ND Alum will pay good price for 4  body good! Wish you were here, we  
Midterms are coming!  FOR SALE  BYU GA tix. Call (708) 359-2727 Mon-Fri 9-5. Ask for Mitch.  OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE.  miss you! Love,  
HELPIII!! I LOST A THIN GOLD  NEED 4 GA's FOR BYU GAME.  287-7550  DaGirls  
BRACELET MADE OF HEARTS.  IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE:  PERSONAL USE ONLY. 271-9540  No one understands how important  
... It was a present from my  $2 EACH.  OR AFTER 7:00 232-3511. ASK  it is for me to get:  LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes  Hey Bobby- 
boyfriend and one of my most  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  FOR BOB.  every Sat & Sun. at 8:00am  Smile, you got your personal.  
sentimental possessions. If you find  1530 WESTERN AVE .. SB.  GA tickets for the BC game.  Eastern Time. Train and jump the  So, HAPPY 21st, Texas.  
it, will you please do the kindest  287-7550.  same day. Modern equipment ant  -Burritos are on their way- 
thing you'll have ever done and  BYu·Byu·Byu·Byu·Byu·Byu•  Call Digger at x1052  training programs. Licensed  Make a wish!  
return it to me? I promise a reward  R.T. BUS TICK. to CLEVELAND  GA'S.GA'S.GA'S.GA'S.GA'S•  instructors. FFI call Skydive  -Ceramic Detectors installed  
to the person who places that  B.O. X2862  Selling BYU and Penn student  Hastings (616) 948-2665.  10/18/92.  
bracelet back in my  I NEED 6 BYU GA'S  tickets. Luis 273-1528  -the shower is ready­ 
hands! Thanks!  MacPius, 2.5 meg RAM, carrying  TOGETHER  Loving Catholic family longing to  sorry sweetie-no  
COLLEEN  case, ext. BOOk drive, ext 20 meg  OR  I need 2 BYU GA's. Call Greg  adopt We're concerned about you  ropes.  
LYNN  HD, modem, lmagewriter. Asking  APART  x3460.  at this difficult time. Let's help each  Peace be with you,  
238WALSH  500. Call 273 9275.  other. Gloria 818-248-4890.  Love ya Hun-8x  
X4528  PLEASE CALL COLLEEN  Need 2 GA's for BC ASAP  -"Rocky" & "Bob's Woman"  
I have a roundtrip ticket from  AT x4528  Call Derek 283-4522  HELP! NEED A RIDE TO TWIN  p.s.-If you miss us over break,  
O'Hare to LAX and 3 ND/USC GA's  CITIES-OCT. BREAK. WILL PAY 4  SIT ON ICE.  
lost: blue jean jacket with green  for sale. Call John 271-2822.  BYu·Byu·Byu·Byu·Byu·Byu·  GAS & TOLLS. 284-5157  
collar and flannel liner  GA'S.GA'S.GA'S•GA'S•GA'S•  HELP! 92 GRAD DESPERATELY  WEAR KILTS NOW  
please call Pat 272-8115  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  NEEDS 2 PENN ST GAs PLEASE  MOM, PATMAN, JULIE, WILLY,  
Rita Delivery on Campus  CALL JENNY 215-265-7346.  ZHACK AND JACKIE:  JoeO.­ 
WANTED  234-6524  ...PENWPENWPENN.PENN••• ..TICKETS.TICKETS.TICKETs••  Do You like My Gift To You?? I Miss You!!! Love, AMY  Happy Birthday Darling I  
Available 2 BC & 2PSU GAs Call  EVERY UTILE THING YOU  
ALASKA SUMMER  BYU Stu. tix. Dalys X4012  I NEED  215-641-1154.  DO IS MAGIC  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  4 PENN STATE GA'S  HELLO FLAT 3 LONDOMERS!  because  
$5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000  TICKETS  FOR MYFOUR BIGGEST FANS!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ok so it took a while but here it is your first personal  I JUST CAN'T GET ENOUGH! and you know  
openings. No experience  You have what I want  y'all are the greatest!  ALL I WANT IS YOU.  
necessary. Male or Female. For  CALL Jeanne at  You have what I want  are you talking to me?  
employment program call Student  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  x2645  does your flat need a leader? (i'm  I love you,  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  and I am willing to pay for it  sure it does)  your BAD girl from SMC  
4155 ext A5584.  yes, I will pay for it !11!!!!111!111!1!  who is this guy?  
I NEED ND FOOTBALL  •••PENWPENWPENWPENN•••  Colleen Feeley is hot! Happy 21st!  
TICKETS.272-6306  ..TICKETS.TICKETS.TICKETs••  PLEASE GIVE IT TO ME  Love, John  
I desperately need it NOW!!  DOING SERVICE WORK OVER  
$$$$ FREE TRAVEL AND  FALL BREAK? Interested in talking  Need Boston College GA's. Will  
RESUME EXPERIENCE!!  Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$De  Your right, I NEED GAs  to an Observer reporter about your  pay $$. Call Andy 271-1863.  
Individuals and Student  need of Penn State GA's .....  sperately Need 2 BC GA's  experience? Raise awareness  
Organizations wanted to promote  JOSH X41 07 leave message  KYUE 287-9118  about service opportunities and get  Help! I need 2 BC GA's. Call Mary  
SPRING BREAK, call the nation's  Call Ann 284-5241  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  your name in the paper!!  x4416.  - 
leader. Inter-Campus Programs  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
1-800-327-6013.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  -Call the Observer Accent dept. or  Colleen-­ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Need 3 BC Tickets, Student or GA.  Jenn at 4059 and leave your name  
PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston  AT 618-439-3338.  Top Dollar. Call Dan@ 288-6818.  and#.  Happy Camping!  
WANTED: 2 Bost Coli. GA's and 2  College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  I hope the bugs don't get you!!!  
Penn St. G~s. If you can help, call  @ x4758 or x4721.  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  Wanted: B.C. G~s  WHO IS THIS RUDY  Have a great time!  
ALEX x1928.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  1-800-922-BEAR.  Call Joy x1675  CHARACTER, ANYWAY?  Love, Cheryl  

-~-~-----­
------------~-~~---------------------------~--~-­
page 12 The Observer Friday, October 16, 1992 
-Lacrosse team readies for Syracuse tournament 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 

While most Notre Dame stu­dents are spending their last few days before fall break cramming for midterms of fi­nalizing travel plans, the Fighting Irish lacrosse team has spent its time preparing for its biggest fall tournament ever. 
The tournament, held at Syracuse, features the Or­angemen, along with Hobart, Cornell and Notre Dame. Syra­cuse, the tourney favorite ac­cording Irish coach Kevin Cor­rigan, has won 3 of the last 5 NCAA championships and fig­ures to be a strong contender again in 1992-93. 
wThe Orangemen," said Cor­rigan, ware an outstanding all­around squad. But, they arc especially strong at the midfield position." At that spot, they re­turn All-American Charlie Lockwood, as well as the tal­ented Dom Finn. 
Although Hobart is a Division III school, their talent has con­sistently been top-notch. Ho­bart's teams have won 12 of the last 13 NCAA Division III titles. 
WLast year," noted Corrigan, "Hobart was upset in the semi­finals. It was the first time they did not win the title since Divi­sion III began a playoff system 
r-:, ~ c:P...~ 

~ ~ o.;j r:-~~"' ~~~~~.~ Open
"b aF' 
"~ ~ 

~-§· Jam with 
Quick Change 
Every Sun. 8-midnight 
1 mile east of campus 
13 years ago." 
Cornell, once a Division I powerhouse, have been down talent-wise in recent years, but comes in with one of the best teams its had in years. 
Although the competition will be stiff, the Irish coach is confi­dent that Notre Dame can com­pete. 
"This is the best squad we've ever had as far as individual talent, and right now we need a tournament like this -we need the challenge." 
Notre Dame is led by senior captain Brian Mayglothling, junior Randy Colley and sophomore Mike Iorio. 
"Brian Mayglothling, I feel, is one of the best at his position in the country," Corrigan com­mented. The midlielder is con­sidered a potential all-Ameri­can. 
"Colley, in his first year, set a single season scoring record for Notre Dame, and his presence gives us a decided offensive punch." 
On the defensive front, Iorio has made a strong impression the US 19 and under team, and at the world tournament in New York, was named to the all­tournament team." 
Even with all his squad's tal­ent, Corrigan remains realistic about his team's goals at Syra­cuse. 
"We're not going to focus too much on matchups or strategies when we compete against teams this strong. We're going to concentrate on playing strong fundamentally, by exe­cuting well physically and by using our heads and playing well mentally." 

wWe have no weak spots. We have players at each position on the field who can comp1~te with anyone else when they give a solid performance." 
on Corrigan. "Mike may well become the prototypical Irish defender," he 

Jefferson

said. wThis summer he made 
Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th II a.m.-II p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m.-11 p.m. 


h. AF dB . Sun4p.m.-9p.m
NoraFranc 1se• am1.1y O wne usmess 

257, 1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York Pizza 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
,.UNIVERSITY 
~~!!~E,LIIC"•tiv. Wniing 

The closest anyone ever comes to perfection is when we write their resume. 277~ 1700 
located off-campus in Granger at University Gardens 

Interested in going to Law School? 
The Assistant Dean for Admissions at Georgetown University Law Center will be conducting information sessions for students interested in law school on Tuesday, October 27, 1992 at 12:30 & 1:30 
Sign up in Career & Placement Services 
Friday, October 16, 1992 The Observer page 13 
PAID ADVERTISMENT 

-
TASK FORCE ON CULTURAL DIVERSITY REPORT ON RECOMMENDED ACTIONS 
October 16, 1992 

The Task Force on Cultural Diversity which Father Edward A. Malloy, C.SC., president, appointed in April, 1991, completed its work on May 1, 1992. The Final Report was given to Father Malloy and was published in its entirety in The Observer. The officers have studied and discussed the Final Report. A transitional recommendation in the report called for the appointment of an implementation committee to develop a plan based on the recommended actions contained in the Final Report. This report is an initial response in the process of developing that plan. It is based on conversations with officers and other administrators responsible for areas in the life of the University covered by the Task Force's 
recommendations. 
Father Malloy has decided to establish a permanent University Committee on Cultural Diversity, which will be described at the end of this report. This is an important development within the context of the efforts of Father Malloy's administration to achieve cultural diversity goals at Notre Dame. While the recommended actions of the Final Report of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity will form the basis for the work of the committee, certain commitments can be made at this time as a result of the work referred to above. 
It is important to begin with a restatement of the Task Force's definition of the term 'cultural diversity.' 
Definition of 'Cultural Diversity' 
Cultural Diversity, as a stated goal of the University of Notre Dame, means that the University is convinced that it wiU most effectively carry out its mission of Catholic higher education in an atmosphere where the faculty, students, and staff of the institution are drawn from the full range of ethnic and cultural traditions represented within our society. Cultural Diversity is not simply a thing to be identified or a set of numbers tabulating the underrepresented ethnic or racial groups present at the University. It is that and much more. It is a way of thinking, seeing and behaving which demonstrates an understanding and respect for all ethnic and cultural traditions. Cultural Diversity signifies the University's commitment to an atmosphere of hospitality and dialogue where these various traditions can together contribute to a sharing of perspectives in the pursuit of truth. It is the recognition of the contributions-both individual and collective­of those ethnic or racial groups which have been legislatively and socially devalued for much of this nation's history. It is the recognition and celebration of the cultural differences within our university community. 
Curriculum and Recruitment of a More Culturally Diverse Undergraduate Student Body and Faculty 
With regard to curriculum, the provost will 
ask each department to review its specific 
course offerings, including the Freshman 
courses, with regard to their cultural 
diversity content. An associate provost will 
provide follow up in this matter, and keep 
the other recommendations concerning 
curriculum in mind. 
There is agreement on the part of everyone interviewed on the importance of the work in admissions to recruit a more diverse student body. Not only will current efforts continue, but there will be a continuing emphasis on providing more adequate levels of funding to meet minority financial need. 
Need-based financial aid can be made available to R.O.T.C. students from the office of financial aid to make up the difference between scholarships received and total educational cost, where applicable. 
In the past, funds have been set aside to attain specific faculty hiring goals. To recruit a more culturally diverse faculty, the provost finds special funding acceptable as a concept. The question is the degree to which it can be accomplished by setting aside enough funds to make a difference at a time when there are significant financial constraints. Within this context, an effort will be made to set aside positions in order to increase the number of minority faculty. 
Undergraduate Academic Support Services 

In the area of undergraduate academic support services, the provost is aware of the success achieved in the Minority Engineering Program and programs of academic support beyond the Freshman Year of Studies in the College of Engineering. He will study possible ways in which this program might be replicated in other academic areas. To achieve this, the provost will consult with the dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and with the deans of the colleges to see what support can be provided for minority students beyond the freshman year and how the matter of enhanced academic support can be provided under diverse circumstances. 
The question of the curriculum in engineering is a longstanding one that is not exclusively related to minority students. Efforts will be made to see how people with limited math and science backgrounds can be given more time to fulfill requirements. 
The directors of overseas programs will be asked to study ways of effectively recruiting minority students for overseas programs. 
Undergraduate Support Services: Residentiality and Student Affairs 
Several recommended actions can be implemented immediately by the Office of Student Affairs in the area of residentiality.There should be balanced distribution of minority students throughout the campus. The vice president for student affairs will see that more accurate information concerning the results of the room assignment process is gathered to study whether more fine tuning of the current procedure is necessary. Minority students are manually given room assignments to assure diversity in freshman room assignments. A review of the room assignment process will take place every three years to make sure the system is working. 
A three year grant from the Lilly Endowment will enable the Office of Student Affairs to develop programs that will assist in creating an environment in the residence halls that promotes and upholds cultural diversity values. There is discussion as to whether such programs should begin in some halls first or in all halls simultaneously. Criteria to evaluate the effectiveness of such programming will be built into the programming itself over the next three years. 
Every candidate for rector was interviewed 
with cultural diversity considerations in 
mind, since these concerns were raised by 
the senior staff in each interview. More can 
and will be done to encourage minority students early in their careers at Notre Dame to consider applying for positions on the staffs of the residence halls. The vice president for student affairs will look into the grade point average clearance criterion currently in place. 
In matters affecting cultural diversity programming within the Division of Student Affairs and the Office of Minority Student Affairs, the current concern is securing hard money once the Lilly Endowment grant expires. It is too early to know how effective the utilization of these funds will be. Needs in this area will be presented to the appropriate committee of the Colloquy. 
A person has been designated in the Office of Student Affairs to assume responsibility for staged programming using the Lilly Endowment grant funds. Educational programming for rectors, hall staff and department heads within Student Affairs has already begun for the 1992-93 academic year, as well as some support for programming offered by the Office of Minority Student Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
Undergraduate Support Services: The University Counseling Center and Campus Ministry 
In addition to one staff psychologist, the University Counseling Center has three trainees this year of minority background. The Counseling Center is continuing to search for additional permanent staff of minority background. Lilly Endowment grant funding will be available for workshops to educate all counselors on the needs and cultures of all students. 
In the area of campus ministry, requests for space use should be considered on an ad hoc basis. There is no need for special worship space on campus for students of other faith traditions. The Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry and Social Values thought through this matter carefully and felt many problems in terms of use could be avoided if requests were handled as suggested. 
The Graduate Program: Recruitment, Financial Aid and Support Services 
In the areas of recruitment, financial aid and support services for graduate students, a complete report and thorough strategic initiative for recruiting underrepresented graduate students at Notre Dame has been prepared by the assistant dean for graduate admissions. Action on the initiative is already underway as of September 1 7, 1992 with new programs for graduate admissions marketing, the initiation of a national recruitment campaign, programs to involve the Alumni Association and an automated communication program to identify minority students. 
University Affirmative Action Committees 
Two University committees review affirmative action issues, the Academic Affirmative Action Committee and the Staff Affirmative Action Committee. 
The provost will meet twice each year with 
the chair of the Academic Affirmative 
Action Committee to discuss and promote goals developed by the Committee. The director of human resources will assist this committee when asked to do so. However, since reporting formats are different for faculty and staff, securing comparable demographic data should be pursued as a helpful way of assisting the process. 
Proper accountabilities are not yet in place with regard to the staff, since concerns at the officer level do not work their way down effectively. A report will be prepared for each vice president each year stating the number of minorities by each category, the number of minorities referred for interviews, and other matters. These reports can form the basis for an annual discussion of staff affirmative action by responsible officers. 
A workshop on cultural diversity will be offered for all staff department heads with Donna Foster of C S Associates. 
The director of human resources will establish community contacts to promote minority hiring in a more aggressive way. At the present time, the University handles 30,000 employment inquiries each year. 
Procedures for Handling Complaints Concerning Cultural Diversity 
With regard to the identification of responsibility within the University for cultural diversity issues, there is a discriminatory harassment policy in the Faculty Handbook. The administration of the process will be clarified and made more prominent in future editions. An ombudsperson will be designated in the academic area t<? assist in the process. 
The director of human resources will study whether the current procedure for handling complaints should be modified. At present, there are ombudspersons physically located in the areas of the library and food service. People cannot be set up as human resources representatives outside the accountability structure. 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity 
Finally, Father Malloy has established a University Committee on Cultural Diversity. This committee will attend to cultural diversity matters on a continuing basis. It will give further attention to the recommended actions of the Task Force and to matters studied and discussed by the members of that group. The committee will meet on a monthly basis, and will be in contact with the different University constituencies. 
The membership of the Committee will include representatives from the offices of the president, the provost, the vice president for student affairs and the vice president for business affairs. There will be one representative from Student Government and at least three additional appointed members. The Committee will be constituted and begin its work during the current academic semester. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Dr. Roland B. Smith, Jr. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Co-Chairs, Task Force on Cultural Diversity 


~------­
f 
page 14 The Observer Friday, October 16, 1992
-
I 
' 
I ND cross country teams to compete this weekend
f 
Men off to Oregon for Invitational 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 

The sixth-ranked Notre Dame men's cross country team re­turns to racing action this Sun­day in Eugene, Oregon for the Jeff Drenth Invitational on the campus of the University of Oregon. 
The Irish will face a challeng­ing field with 4 teams in the top 
25. Their most formidable op­ponent will be Oregon currently ranked 19th in the nation. The Ducks have a great distance running history and tradition. Led by coach and Olympic bronze medalist Matt Delinger in the Tokyo games, Oregon has been a distance powerhouse since the 1950's. Eugene is known in the world of track and field as the mecca of distance running. 
"This will be an opportunity for us to make a real national splash. But we've got to win, says Irish head coach Joe Pi­ane. 
"The combination of Karl Keska and Rick Metzler is as good a front two as any team in the nation." 
The number three runner for the Ducks is Tracy Hollister, a middle distance runner who has run a 4:05 mile. 
"We've got to put him away 
$1 
Coupon 
(for any item) 
(expires 1 0117/92) 
•present coupon at door 
1 mile east of campus 
early. If Tracy Hollister stays up with us he's got a little better wheels at the end of a race," said Piane. 
Aside from Oregon, the Irish will face three other teams in the top 25. Those teams are the University of Washington, Portland University and Mon­tana State. 
Notre Dame enters these two meets off its victory two weeks ago at the 37th annual Notre Dame Invitational. They man­aged a slim one-point victory over Eastern Michigan by out­lasting the Eagles, 56-57. 

Busy? Let me type your papers and resumes 
Call 272-6916 
THE 
~~~ 
DOMER DASH 
WHAT:  A two-person (1 male & 1 female)  
team obstacle course, of course!  
WHERE:  At the JACC, Gym 2!  
WHEN:  October 28, Wednesday, 7pm!  

WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'! 
HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office, call 239-6100! 
Participate or just watch. Those present can enter a drawing for the GRAND PRIZE -A Compact Disc Player 
Participate and compete for prizes worth over $200! 
WE  DARE YOU!!  
(double dog) ** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Ennt *** Sponsored by : Office of Recreational Sports & Office of Alcohol and Drug Education  ** ***  

Women head to Indiana lntercollegiates 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team will take its show on th-e road Friday to West Lafayette, IN, for the In­diana Intercollegiates. The Irish are coming off of an impressive second place finish at the Notre Dame Invitational two weeks ago, their last home meet of the season. 
"Being at home is nice be­cause of the large spectator turnout, but we don't mind travelling," said Stephanie Jensen, who finished ninth in 

Say you saw us in The Observer 
Haircuts $6.00 with Student 1.0. 
277~0057 
Is This The Face Of A "Fish Killer?" 
HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY 
Christine 
Love, Kim, Teresa & Karien 
I 
3917 Grape Rd. South Bend 219-273-0321 
the Notre Dame Invitational on October 2. "We did well last year on the road, and hopefully we'll continue that this year." 
The team's second place finish was their worst of the season, so the Irish will be looking to bounce back against similar competition. 

This afternoon's meet will feature teams from across the Midwest, including Purdue, In­diana State, Indiana, and Ball State. The Irish are hoping for a strong team effort as they near the Midwest Collegiate Conference Championships at the end of the month. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 

Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 239-5303 or 284-5440 for more information. 
Come back on the right foot .... Star! the BYU weekend with a Bang! 
Friday, Octo be~ 23 .*'15 \Vomen 1s Soccer I QJ vs LaSaiie ("(.[A4_ ~~Y Alumni Field '~ ' ~t1 ­5:00pm !j)/. ~q 
\ 
!\:len1s Soccer \'S BYV Alumni Field 7:30pm* 

*Free seat cushions ltl fi.··st 1U1(Jfans and Free hot chocolate to all t:o1.zpliments of General Foods 
CD 
$9.99 
Cassette 
$6.98 
-~---­
lkpJmol 
Wal-Mart Shopping Cntr. Warsaw 317-267-2080 
1625 N. Michigan St. 
E-Z Shopping Place 
Plymouth Elkhart 
219-936-5840 
219-293-1711 Expires 10/23/92 



Today 
II. 

Friday, October 16, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 15 
From The Whole Student Union Board ..... have a GREAT BREAK.•• and when you return, look out! MOVIES: THURSDAY, OCT. 29-THE BUTCHER•s WIFE FRIDAY, OCT 30 AND SATURDAY, OCT 31-THE ADDAM•S FAMILY -mJDENT UNION BOARD  

SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\.1£.\l.O, CoVNI'l UBR/I.Ri ~ ~E.'S, DO '{O\J HII--1/E. At-N 
BOOKS ON W\-\'{ G\R\.5 
LOOKING UNDER ''oB~<J'{\0\JS:' 
ARt. SO Wt.\RD !" 
\ J 

~ 
~ 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  25"--Home  49 One-mate state  
1 Kick  With Bonnie Jean," 1947  52 Mohammed's favorite wife  
5 Psalter of­9Abbr. on a tombstone 13"-inthe Wilderness," 1974 TV movie  song 28 He devised logarithms 29 French F.B.I. 31 The Afrikaans 33 Arp's art  54 Quapaw quarters 55 Good-­(plant used as a potherb) 59"Gil-..  
14 Heron cousin 15 Tune, in Taxco  35 University city in Honshu 36 Have  60 Icelandic collection 61 B.L.T. addition  
16 Corded cotton  37 Pilose  62 "... ye better  
nYoung-,  39 Bro. or dau.  reck the-":  
Scott hero  40 Role in "I  Burns  
19 Rampur  Pagliacci"  630rg.  

address of 42 Marquis de-64 Like a summer respect 43 Uttar Pradesh drink 21 Conniving wife city 65 Parliament in an Ibsen play 44 Prayer votes 
46lndebted game 48 Perry's aide 22 Type of poker 
DOWN 
1 "Nor iron-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE cage": Lovelace 2 Singer Billy­3 Comics heroine 4 Representative 5Sesame 6 Turku, to 
Swedes 7 "Poor-": Franklin 8 U.S. Open champion: 1968 9"Cool-," 
1967film 7+.:+.:-t:-1 10 Competition =-+-::--+:=:~ 11 Author Levin -=-1-:--:+-:-+=-t 12 For each ~"'-'--'-.L;....! 18 Exile Amin et al. 
'WE. KNOW 11$ NOI 0\JR PUIC6 TO MAI<E. PLOT 
DECISIONS L.IK£ lHAT,BUT You HAVE NT B£EN IN A RELHIONSHIP FOI? 
YEARS.< YOO OOI'T I<NM 1lt6 Jlll<E:S W6 
TI-1A\S W\-\1:\T I Si:>.\0. OR iO\J M\G~T AL'?JJ W.'{ 
ARE '{0\J st.R\0\JS ?.' '(0\J MEAN Tl-\t.R(S No RE.StARG\ 
ON 11-\\'5 A.T A\.L ~-" \ 
20Jazz form 23 Nests, to Virgil 24Charming 
children 26 Marquand 
protagonist 27 Paravane JOWeed ofthe 
West 31 Ms. Gale's pet 32"-tothe 
wise ..." 34 Field of sound recording 

37Happy-, comics hero 38 Tone, in Troon 41 Baffin and Block 
43 High-school subject 
45 "Versus" poet 
47 Fly larva 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 {75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


-. 
BILL WATTERSON 
"LiHie Bear! A watched head never gets eaten by ants." 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
Today's Special: 
2 Extra--Large 15" Pizzas 
Call Now 
NO 271,0300 SMC 289,0033 


so Victor at Gettysburg 51 O.K.'s 53 Prefix for sphere 55 Green parrot 56 Sources of libidos 57 Bar order sa Hebrew letter 

Sports 
page 16 
RICH KURZ 
Eye in the Sky 


Braves becoming 
Atlanta's new 
media mogul 
Every once in a while, one of those little ironies pop up in sports that really just makes you sit back and think. And the Atlanta Braves possess more than their fair share. 
Is it just coincidence that media 
mogul Ted Turner owns the Braves? A 
man who has his own television 
network seems like he knows the 
importance of ratings, and his Braves 
play like it. 

Three straight seven-game series, two in the National League Championship Series and one in the World Series, which was lost in the top ever, and then last night. 
Just when it looked like the Braves 
were running out of luck. Just when 
Atlanta manager Bobby Cox began 
showing the strain, using almost every 
pitcher available to try to keep the 
Pirates from scoring again. And just 
when it looked like the Braves were out 
of hope ... 

Pittsburgh pitcher Doug Drabek had been outstanding. In the sixth, the Braves had the bases loaded and couldn't punch in a run. In the seventh, Drabek hung Atlanta out to dry with two runners on base. 
When the Pirates took the field in the 
bottom of the ninth, they were just 
three outs from the pennant. 
But the Braves showed their nose for 
great theater by once again providing 
an amazing finish. 

They got some help from the Pirates when All-Star second baseman Jose Lind, one of the top fielders in the game, booted a Dave Justice grounder. That put runners on first and third. A walk later, the bases were loaded with nobody out. 
Ron Gant stepped to the plate and hit a deep blast that had Atlanta fans cheering, "Going, going, gone," until Barry Bonds caught it at the warning track. But one run scored. Then Brian Hunter popped up. 
Two outs in the ninth inning. All of the top pinch hitters had already been up to bat, with no runs to show for them. Even the man with a nickname tailor made for the Braves "Prime Time" 
Deion Sanders, who was presumably in between football games. The only man Cox could use to hit for the pitcher was Francisco Cabrera. 
He responded with a hit to left field that easily scored one run, and if to prove that divine providence was on the side of the Braves, Sid Bream, very possibly the slowest human on the planet, outran a poor throw from Bonds. Game, set, match. 
Turner caught a lot of flak for sleeping through a game earlier in the series, but maybe he knew something we didn't-the Braves always make a series interesting, even if they have to take to seven games. 
INSIDE SPORTS 


IIMen*s XC heads to Oregon see page 14 
liND lacrosse in Syracuse tourney seepage 12 
Friday, October 16, 1992 
Open date, BVU ahead for Irish football 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame football team will have a weekend off for the first time this season with an open date on Saturday. 
The Irish will use the week off to reevaluate and to prepare for Brigham Young University which comes into Notre Dame Stadium on October 24. 

"We've got an open date be­
Eric Drage 
fore the BYU game and we're 
going to examine our entire Cougars. Currently the 
football team from top to bot­Cougars are 3-3 with the 
tom. We're got to do that if losses coming against San 
we're going to usc to open Diego State, UCLA and 
date to take it to another Hawaii. BYU who docs not 
level," said Notre Dame head have an open date this 
coach Lou Holtz. weekend will be playing 
The game will mark the Wyoming on Saturday. first time that the two teams Last year, BYU finished 8-3­have met and the start of a 2 and won the Western three game series with the Athletic Conference title with 
Men's soccer busy with 3 break games 
Observer Staff Report 
With midterms finally over, the Notre Dame men's soccer team now has a chance to turn their attention solely to soccer. 
The Irish will play three games in six days during fall break, beginning Saturday at Kentucky. 
Notre Dame is riding a three-game winning streak after knocking off Midwestern Collegiate Conference foes Dayton, Detroit and Evansville. 
The win over Evansville was probably the biggest win of the season for the youthful Irish squad. Sophomore Tim Oates provided the winning margin, scoring with less than three minutes remaining to improve Notre Dame's record to 7-4-1 and 4-1 in the MCC. 
Sophomore defender Chris Dean received a red card midway through the second half, and the Irish were forced to play one man short of the rest of the game. 
"To play 10 against 11 for the last 30 minutes and still show enough poise to win is a credit to the team," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "It shows that we are gaining maturity." 
The Irish travelled to Chicago Wednesday night to face Loyola, a game originally scheduled for September that was cancelled due to bad weather conditions. 
The rescheduled game suffered a similar fate Wednesday night, after lightning forced its postponement with 
20:49 remaining in the game. 
The game will continue on Monday, October 26th with the score tied at two and the Hamblers short two players because of ejections. 
But they will be busy before that. After Saturday's game against Kentucky, the Irish will travel to Tennessee to face Vanderbilt, before returning home next Friday to face Brigham Young. 


a 7-0-1 record. BYU capped The Cougar defense is com­off its season with a 13-13 tie ing off an strong game of Iowa in the Holiday Bowl. against Fresno State and 
The Cougars, hurt by the should present a challenge to loss of former Heisman the Irish offense. Inside Trophy winner, Ty Detmer, linebacker Shad Hansen is and injuries to backups Steve leading the team in tackles Clements and John Walsh, with 9.3 a game and fumble are left with sophomore recoveries with three on the quarterback Ryan Hancock. year. The Irish quarterbacks Hancock has played in three will have to keep an eye out games this year compiling a for Patrick Mitchell. The .571 pass completion sophomore cornerback has percentage and averaging knocked down seven passes 
346.7 passing yards a game. this year. 

On the receiving end of The BYU defense will hope Hancock's tosses will be All­to be as successful against American candidate Eric Notre Dame as it was against Drage at wide receiver. Drage Fresno State. is number one in the nation "The defense did an for the second week in a row exc e II en t j o b i n I i m it i n g in receiving yards per game Fresno State to one with 124.67. touchdown in the second 
"I can't say enough about half," said Edwards. Eric. lie is the fastest guy I've Kickoff for the October 24 ever seen who they said BYU-Notre Dame game is couldn't run," said BYU head 12:35 p.m. at Notre Dame coach LaVell Edwards. Stadium. 
Women's soccer to face # 6 SMU 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 

The mid-semester break will be no break for the Notre Dame women's soccer team as they face sixth-ranked Southern Methodist and Texas Christian. 
SMU looms as the last ranked team on the schedule and the last opportunity for Notre Dame's coach Chris Petrucelli's squad to improve its national ranking and standing with the NCAA tournament selection committee. 
"It is going to be a big game against SMU," said Petrucelli. "This is a very big week for us." 
The Lady Mustangs showcase one of the most potent offenses in the country. The top four scorers from 1991 returned this season including junior Kara Lee who notched 4 7 points a year ago. 
The SMU defense is highlighted by the play of goalkeeper Meridith Ness, who despite only seeing action in two games last season, anchors a stingy, physical defense. 
Notre Dame will stick to its strPngth on both offense and defense, speed. 
The play of Irish defenders Andrea Kurek and Jill Matesic eould decide the game. Petrucelli counts heavily on their ability to shut down the SMU attackers. 
Texas Christian is not a national powerhouse but is potentially dangerous considering the Irish could suffer a letdown after Saturday's game with SMU. 
Notre Dame should be well rested for both games after cruising past doormat Kentucky last Wednesday 9-0. The Irish are also minus the burden of school work. 
"Earlier in the week we had girls playing after staying up all night studying," said Notre Dame's third-year eoach. "The break gives us an opportunity to concentrate only on soccer." 
SMC soccer defeats Trinity College, 4-0 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Leaving behind a long string of tough games, the Saint Mary's soccer team blanked Trinity College, 4-0, improving their record to 8-3­1. 
"The game was really weird because we played at a differ­ent level," said forward Megan Dalsaso. 
The past games have kept the Belles on the defensive much more than usual leaving the forwards with few chances to touch the ball, according to Dalsaso, but that was not the case against Trinity College. 
The Belles set the pace with a quick offensive attack. Mid­fielder Colleen Cichon dribbled the ball just outside of the penalty box, shot straight on and got the first goal. 
"We needed it to get us go­ing,"said Dalsaso. 
Many shots on goal were taken with Dalsaso making the second goal in the first half of the game. 
Goalies Mary Barger and Anne Kuehne held down the box and made great saves ac­cording to Dalsaso. 
"They had a few breakaways but nothing developed from them, "said Dalsaso. 
The second half saw Dalsaso making another goal along with co-captain Kristen Crowley finding the box. That wasn't Crowley's only shot at the goal. 
"Kristen had a cross from Stacy Winget and made a nice header into the goal but it was taken back," said Dalsaso. Crowley was called for pushing. 

With only two games left after break, the Belles will be taking the time to rest so that they can gear up for two more wins. 
"I'm glad that we'll have some time away from soceer to become refocused," said Dalsaso. 
After the break, Saint Mary's soccer team will play their last home game against Rockford college, October 25th. The Belles will play Depauw University on the road, October 28th. 






