
Tl1e Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 29 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1992 

INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Forum: New clhild care facility ne~eded 
By TRACY CRINION 
News Writer 
A new child care facility is needed at Notre Dame to meet the demands of students, fac­ulty and staff, said graduate student Reynold Nesiba at a fo­rum last night. 
Although many use the Uni­versity-supported Early Child­hood Development Center (ECDC) located at Saint Mary's College, space is limited and expensive. 
Groups like the subcommittee on child care at Notre Dame and quality of life committee are addressing the need for an additional day care facility on Notre Dame campus, according to Sister Kathleen Cannon, chair of the subcommittee. 
Nesiba said that another day care option on campus is nec­essary because it is "good Catholic social policy to support families." Cannon said that it is in the University's Catholic heritage to build family strength. 
Construction of a new center at Notre Dame would cost $1.5 million, much of which would come from fundraisers. 
Cannon said the provost rec­ognizes the need for quality day care, but a new center depends on liability, quality employees and clients able to pay the cost of care. 
The price of day care at the present ECDC is approximately $75 per week per child, but the committee is discussing a "sliding fee" program that would determine tuition based on family income. 
The University offers a 35 percent "scholarship" for graduate students of Notre Dame whose children are en­rolled at the center. While there is scholarship money available for the staff of Saint Mary's children at the Center, there are insufficient funds to offer a tuition reduction to the staff of Notre Dame. 
As a result of cost and lack of space, graduate students and staff in need of day care must seek it in the South Bend com­munity. 
One graduate student family found an idnal mother's helper by adverti~:ing in the South Bend Tribune. South Bend's reputation in child care is full of tragedy due to careless acci­
see FORUM I page 4 

The Observer/David Hungeling 

Under lock and key 

Tom Fitzpatrick, a Morrissey Hall sophomore, hangs his bike up in his room after classes to protect it from the weather and thieves. 

Military spending cuts would reduce ROTC program funding 
By JULIE BARRETT such severe reductions on the To ease economic hardship focuses on creating new jobs in Assistant News Editor armed forces and defense in­********** associated with defense con­specific and needed areas such dustries. version, Clinton proposes to as infrastructure, according to Deep cuts in military ex­ELECTION 192 reinvest the money saved into Charles Wilbur, NO professor of 
With the end of the Cold War penditures would also result in job-producing public programs, economics.
A series on issues

and the collapse of communism, significant reductions in fund­to train military personnel for "By rebuilding the infras­both presidential candidates ing for ROTC scholarship pro­affecting students civilian professions and to offer tructure in the U.S., jobs will be must face the demand for grams. tax incentives to businesses to created and people displaced reduced military spending But "there will be no great officer of Navy ROTC, said the hire people from the military from the military cuts may be while providing economic al­impact at Notre Dame because number of ROTC scholarships and defense-related industries. absorbed that way," he said. ternatives for the millions of of the strength of the Univer­and opportunities for future Bush's plan would provide "Bush expects the growth of the people employed in the armed sity," said Ja.mes O'Brien, chair military careers will decrease $7.1 billion in assistance to help economy, expanding already forces and defense-related in­of the milita.ry science depart­with the cuts. defense workers and commu­existing businesses, to produce dustries. ment. "Many students who earn Bush's plan to reduce military nities affected by the cuts, cre­jobs for these people. That's President George Bush and [ROTC] scholarships decide to spending by $18 billion over the ate new career opportunities in difficult to expect when we're in 
Democratic candidate Gov. Bill come to Notre Dame." next four years would result in teaching for former defense a recession." 
Clinton have both proposed Notre Dame has one of the a loss of about 900,000 military workers and expand the GI Bill However, Clinton's enormous 
major cuts in military spending largest ROTC scholarship pro­and civilian jobs, while Clinton's educational opportunities and defense cuts could pose serious 
in their party platforms, but grams for private universities cuts of about $60 billion more options for early retirement problems for national defense, 
their policies differ concerning with about 625 ROTC students would mean a loss of an from the Defense Department. according to Darcy Campbell of 
how much, how fast and how to attending. additional 100,000 to 150,000 Economically, Clinton's plan
jobs. see ROTC I page 4 
deal with the ramifications of James Patltison, commanding seems more effective because it 
Dailey beats McCarthy in mock presidential debate 
By ALEX MONTOYA concentrated on Clinton's pro­News Writer choice abortion stance and the controversy surrounding the 
Junior Bill Dailey, represent­draft issue. He said Clinton's ing Democratic presidential proposal to raise taxes on the candidate Bill Clinton, defeated wealthiest two percent would Student Union Board Manager "run this country into the Pat McCarthy, posing as Presi­ground with spending." dent George Bush, in a mock Dailey said he could cut the debate last night. deficit in half by regulating 
According to a poll given to health care costs and reducing those present after the debate, military spending. He touted his Dailey beat McCarthy 26-20, college loan plan which would with 16 tie votes. Those polled allow students to obtain a indicated they'd choose Clinton federal loan and pay it back on election day by a margin of through service or as a portion 28-21. with 10 undecided. of income after graduation. 
McCarthy criticized Dailey He also cited Bush's 1987 for much of the debate for not comment that Clinton was "a being specific on plans to leader in education" and the eliminate the nation's deficit. recent commendation by fellow The attacks grew more intense governors as the nation's best as McCarthy deflected criticism governor. about the Bush administration. McCarthy was slow to re­
Dailey drew applause when spond when Dailey asked him he accused McCarthy of trying to explain his reversal of his to derail the debate and called "no new taxes " pledge and 
The Observer/David Hungeling 

Bush "President Flip-Flop." 1988 promises of 31 million 
Bill Dailey and Pat McCarthy (left to right} represent Democratic candidate Gov. Bill Clinton and President 
McCarthy did not defend new jobs, environmental and
George Bush, respectively, at a mock debate held last night in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Bush's economic policies, but health care improvement. 

-~-------~­
-~----------~~~-w-~-------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

At least the 
knights knew 

wflat to do 
Chivalry is dead, at 
least in America, and 
perhaps it is a good 
thing. 
That once so revered 
gallantry of the knights of 
yesteryear, fallen victim 
to changing cultural 
norms of our day, 

submitting to the will of John Rock 
the feminist movement M . Ed' 

and the fact armour is anagmg ltor definitely no longer in fashion, has all but disappeared. What woman has not dreamt o being the Disney princess swept off her feet into the arms of her chain-mailed man? What man does not yearn to test his masculinity by just once trying on a suit of armour? Alas, despite our wildest dreams, suit armour is out of mass production and one cannot park a horse in D-2 without a permit. The still-evolving place of women in our society is obviously freeing, and changing, them. Although blame cannot be placed on a particular sex for failed marriages, since women have restarted the engines of upward mobility, their independence, the notion of "family" has changed in life, reflected in TV, from June and Ward Cleaver to Murphy Brown. As a result of this, and other culturally ingrained notions, it can be expected that more and more people will forego formal marriage for common-law marriage. With over fifty percent of marriages failing, serial monogamy will some day be the norm. There are still some, the "old fashioned," that hope for something different. Dan Quayle may 'ust be an amiable incompetent, but his Murphy Brown comment was just his affirmation o what he knows as "traditional," and no offense to single mothers was intended. We benefit by the extinction of the chivalrous creature in that we are free of "responsibility" or "accountability" to the opposite gender. It is acceptable for women to ask men on dates; men are not "socially obliged" to pay for said dates; and women are freed of the oppression o having to go where she is taken. Men neither need not open doors for women, a task they can obviously complete themselves, nor are women required to play the role o sweet and docile. And, thank God, men do not have to do that "lay the jacket over the puddle" routine. How should men treat women in the this age of resurgent feminism? Should a women feel patronized if a man opens a door for her? Is he being nice or saying ''I'm a man and I think, although I'm not sure, it's my duty as a man to open this door for you?" Should a women go out of her way to open a door for herself, to say "I don't need a masculine figure to open this door?" Opening a door shouldn't be so confusing, but this is the grey area men are facing today; however, women have to do the great career/friends//family balancing act, which can be far from easy. Woe betide the one who speaks of chivalry in the face of the era of political correctness. Sad too, is the person who drops the ball while 'uggling. Although chivalry is dead, let us hope we can weather the storm of confusion that is sex relations in this decade without losing our sanity. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
The Observer 


FRONTS: 
• 't' • • 't' • 't' 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 

L t~:~:l ~ [±}] ~ 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Yugoslavia agrees to pull some troops 
•SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina -Serbia-domi­nated Yugoslavia agreed Wednesday to pull its army from a strategic peninsula in Croatia by Oct. 20 and said it would enter talks on recognizing Croatia, a former Yugoslav republic. Britain's Lord Owen said the agreement reached in Geneva between presidents Dobrica Cosic of Yugoslavia and Franjo Tudjman of Croatia represented a significant step along the hard road to peace. Diplomats trying to end ethnic fighting in former Yugoslav republics said earlier that relief flights to Sarajevo, the besieged capital of Bosnia-Herzegovina, could resume by the weekend. Serb gunners ringing Sarajevo held back artillery barrages early Wednesday in one of the quietest nights of the 6-month-old siege. 
NATIONAL Distiller responsible for girl's death 
•CORPUS CHRISTl, Texas-A jury has ordered a distiller to pay $500,000 to the mother of a college student who died after downing at least 20 shots of tequila. "I think the message will be to put warning labels on their product so people will know that alcohol is lethal and to educate and advertise about their product, that it is lethal," Joyce Brune said after the verdict Tuesday. Brune's daughter, 18-year-old Marie Brinkmeyer, was found dead in her Texas A&I University dormitory room in 1983. According to testimony, she drank one shot after another of Pepe Lopez tequila at a party the night before. 
OF INTEREST 
•The College Republicans will have its organiza­tional meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the Montgomery The­atre in LaFortune. Terry Holt, congressional campaign manager will be the guest speaker. All are invited to at­tend. 
Thursday, October 1, 1992 
FORECAST 
Mostly sunny and warmer today. High in the lower 70s. Cool tonight with lows in the 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 

Girl seeks divorce from parents 
•DETROIT-A juvenile judge today granted a man temporary custody of his 13-year-old niece while the girl seeks a legal separation from her mother and stepfather, who is awaiting trial on charges that he sexually abused her. Inspired by a recent Florida case in which a 12­year-old boy won a court battle to legally separate from his parents, the girl hopes a "divorce" from her mother will open the way for her uncle and aunt to adopt her. Juvenile Judge James Lacey today granted the couple custody pending the outcome of criminal sexual conduct charges against the stepfather, who is due to go on trial Nov. 19. Lacey also is considering a petition filed by the state Department of Social Services to make the girl a temporary ward of the court. 
Employee of bookstore files charges 
•BALTIMORE-A teen-age cashier at the U.S. Naval Academy's bookstore has filed a complaint, saying an of­ficer asked her to go through a Vanity Fair magazine ar­ticle about Madonna and "highlight all the dirty parts." 
Nicole Stuller, 17, said she considered the magazine offensive and the fact that a superior told her to read it amounted to harassment. The written complaint, which she filed with her superior, comes a month after Navy personnel were required to attend seminars at the academy and elsewhere to rid the Navy of attitudes that led to the Tailhook scandal in which women were forced through a gantlet of drunken aviators at a convention. "It wasn't a touchy thing. It wasn't a verbal thing. But through the eight hours of sexual harassment class, I learned that it is sexual harassment," Stuller said. 
•The NO Film Club will hold an organizational meet­ing tonight at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Loft. 
News Sports 
Jennifer Habrych Jonathan Jensen Alicia Reale Accent Viewpoint Laurie Sessa Cheryl Moser Amy Hardgrove 
Systems Lab Tech 
Matt Carbone Macy Hueckel 
Production Graphics 
Susan Marx Chris Weirup Rolando de Aguiar Business Cheryl Moser Pancho Lozano 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 30 
VOLUME IN SIIAHES NYSEINDEX 224,371,680 +0.56 to 229.46 S&P COMPOSITE 

+UJO to 417.80 DOW .JONES INDUSTIUALS 
+4.86 to 3,291.66
UNCI lANCED 
606 


GOLD -$0.40 to s:\47.80 oz 
SILVI·:H 

+$0.14 to $3.762 oz 
H  L  
44  33  
75  63  
66  39  
75  60  
82  64  
59  36  
73  46  
83  60  
67  37  
Indianapolis  77  38  
Jerusalem  84  63  
London  68  55  
93  69  
77  52  
77  56  
61  48  
75  48  
New York  70  55  
Paris  70  52  
Philadelphia  69  57  
Rome  77  64  
Seattle  78  55  
South Bend  60  36  
Tokyo  66  63  
Washington. D.C.  70  56  

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1800: Spain ceded Louisiana to France in a secret treaty. 

• 
In 1908: Henry Ford introduced the Model T automobile to the market, at a cost of $825 per car. 

• 
In 1949: Communist Party Chairman Mao Tse-tung raised the first flag of the People's Republic of China in a proclamation ceremony in Beijing. 

• 
In 1962: Johnny Carson succeeded Jack Paar as permanent host of NBC's "Tonight Show." 

• 
In 1964: The Free Speech Movement began at the University of California at Berkeley as students began to demand the right to engage in political activities on campt,Js. 

• 
In 1981: A bomb exploded at a PLO office in Beirut, killing 50 people. 


Thursday, October 1, 1992 

Minority engineering sets up new mentoring program 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
The Minority Engineering Program has implemented a mentoring program which will match minority engineering students with a faculty member who will guide each student in his or her field of interest, ac­cording to Joy Vann, program director. 
Engineering has not been a field in which many minority students participate, on any college campus, Vann said. "The mentoring program will be set up to help minority stu­dents take advantage and to maximize the opportunities al­ready available to them.» 
"The purpose of the program is to increase the retention of minority students and their overall experience in the engi­neering program, and to en­courage minority students to take a look at graduate schools,"she said. 
Vann added that the program will also aid minority students in getting their degree in either engineering, architecture, or geological science. 
The faculty mentors will also help students feel like more of a part of the college and help them to understand the stan­dards which they need to meet, she said. 
The Minority Engineering Program will have an initial 
meeting today at 4 p.m. in room 118 DeBartolo to introduce the participants to the purpose of the mentoring program and the semester agenda, according to Vann. 
Speaking at the meeting will be Sheila Scott, promoting pro­gram consultant from Eastern Michigan University, who will give a presentation to the mentors and student proteges on an effective and beneficial mentoring relationship Vann said. 
"Presently we have thirty­three minority participants who will each be linked with faculty members in their respective fields, "she said. Two profes­sionals from the community who work for Bendix Automo­tive will also participate as mentors, she added. 
Upperclassmen are looking forward to the program be­cause they will be working with professors they know, Vann said, but the freshman have been a bit hesitant because the program is something new. 
A similar campus-wide mi­nority program was attempted two years ago but proved un­successful not because of a lack of participation, but because the program was not followed up by the Minority Student Affairs Office, according to Vann. 
• 

~ 
The Observer page 3 
j

SMC hosts annual c~reer fair t<;>day 
By KIM ST. CLAIR 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's College is hosting their annual career fair today, Showcase of Careers 92', in Le Mans Hall lobby from 3 to 5p.m. 
The Showcase offers stu­dents a chance to discover full­time, part-time and summer jobs, internships, and volunteer opportunities from 65 or­ganizations in corporate, gov­ernment, education, non-profit, volunteer, and graduate school settings. 
A few organizations that will be present are: Leo Burnett Advertising, the FBI, Eastman Kodak, AT&T, and Northwest­ern University's Medill School of Journalism. 
Jeff Roberts, coordinator of Placement Services at Saint Mary's, views the career fair as the first major opportunity for students to use the skills that the Counseling and Career De­velopment Center has taught them. 
The center provides educa­tional programs, research centers, and support for stu­dents searching for jobs. 
"We specialize in teaching people how to place themselves and use our influence to give them opportunities to use these skills," said Roberts. 
Roberts also encourages students to form their own networks by participating in programs like the Senior Dad's Career Networking Forum. 
"Our students are very well prepared to conduct job searches,» said Roberts. 
Bill Cash, director of Institu­tional Research at Saint Mary's, said 78 percent to 83 percent of graduates are employed within a year of graduation, while 16 percent to 20 percent attend graduate school. Of those em­ployed, 92 percent to 96 per­cent are employed by Decem­ber, according to a survey con­ducted of 1988-1991 graduates 9-12 months after graduation. 
The Showcase of Careers 92' is sponsored by Student Gov­ernment Association; Senior, Junior and Sophomore Class Councils; and the Counseling and Career Development Cen­ter. Everyone is invited to par­ticipate, and resumes will be accepted. 
Robles: Minority children disadvantaged 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Minority children have a large disadvantage today because they face racism targeted to­ward them at an early age said South Bend bilingual teacher Maritza Robles, in a lecture at Saint Mary's yesterday. 
"When I feel sad, I feel like driving to the airport and going home," said Robles, Community School Corporation bilingual education director. "Children here don't have that chance." 

Robles, a Puerto Rico native, said that she first came to the United States to do graduate work at Notre Dame. She said she had to adjust to being an Hispanic in America instead of a Puerto Rican. 
"In Puerto Rico, I'm Puerto Rican. Hispanic was a term given to us by the 1980 census." 
She said that "Hispanic" has come to mean someone who traces ancestry to Central or South America, and that now she is proud to say she shares ancestry with Mexicans and South Americans. 
However, she said that racism and prejudice is strongest on the level of children. Robles, who has adopted five Hispanic children, said that her children face prejudice daily at school. 
She related a story about how a teacher recently made a racist comment to one of her children. 
"When I adopted five kids, I never thought that the school was going to give me the hard­est time. Every day, I have to be prepared to help them keep their self-esteem intact." 
She said that this prejudice extends into her adult life. She said that there is prejudice against her both as an Hispanic and as a woman. 
"My co-workers don't see me as aspiring to be superinten­dent," she said. "We (as His­panic women) grew up to be submissive, thinking the man would take care of us. If I had stayed in Puerto Rico, I would 
1!1~~1!1 
m IRISH EXPRESS m 
~ ~ 
mYour Football Weekend Outlet I 
~ Dooley Room • LaFortune Student Center • 239-8128 ~ 
m Hours: I ~ Friday 12-9 p.m. ~ I Saturday 8 a.m.-9 p.m.;
I  Sunday 9 a.m.-5 p.m.  I  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~I  VISA • MASTERCARD • DISCOVER ACCEPTED!  ~I  



7 Day Delivery 
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square ( 219)277 .,. 1291 0'<-~e'<-~ 51400 31 North ~~'(. South Bend, lN 46637 ~ ~~~ 
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

The Castle &Co. Is Your New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 
• 
New Wolf Tanning Beds • Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

•
Facial Tanners • Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 


272-0312 

The Castle 

NoTRE DAME CoMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
TO T:HE "REAL Boss" AT PAPA }OHN'S! Help us celebrate Grant's 13irthday today ... 
Call between 6:30 ar1d 8:30 and wish Grant a Happy Birthday and receive FREE extra cheese. Stop by Papa John's between 6:30 and 
DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 
Wednesday, October 7, 8: I 0 pm Thursday, October El, 8: I 0 pm
8:30 and have a FREE piece of pizza and 
Friday, October 9, 8: I 0 pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm 
Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm
birthday cake with us. PIZZJl 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed.; Thurs. and Sun. performances. 

Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student
s~71~elic7 ~/~y ~D1JOH1· 
Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 
page 4 
ih the · seat National Stadium, once the scene of Communist military parades, 
The reclusive 34-year-old singer told a news conference he was "very happy to be here 
The Observer 

Human error causes nuclear plant shutdown 

Thursday, October 1 , 1992 


TOKYO (AP) -A mistaken flip of a switch by a nuclear power plant worker caused a reactor's cooling pumps to fail, a government official said Wednesday, but an emergency system took over and prevented a nuclear meltdown. 
The automatic activation of the emergency cooling system prevented radiation from being released by the plant in Fukushima prefecture, 70 miles northeast of Tokyo. 
Local officials sharply criti­cized the Tokyo Electric Power Co., the plant's owner, for not notifying residents for hours about the emergency shutdown of the 18-year-old reactor. 
"The case is very serious be­cause it triggered (the emer­gency core cooling system)," said Jinzaburo Takagi, a physi­cist who heads the Citizens' Nuclear Information Center, an anti-nuclear group. 
It was the first shutdown using the emergency system since Japan's worst nuclear accident, at Mihama in western Japan in February 1991, when a small amount of radioactivity was released into the atmosphere. 
Tuesday's accident, at the number 2 reactor of Fukushima Nuclear Plant No. 1, involved a 784-megawatt lightwater reactor, the most widely used reactor design in the world. It uses ordinary water for cooling and to moderate the flow of neutrons that split the atoms that produce nuclear reactions. 
The emergency system that went into effect at the plant is the last reliable defense against a core meltdown. The system pours cooling water onto a re­actor's nuclear fuel rods to pre­vent them from reaching dan­gerously high temperatures. 
A meltdown could occur if a reactor's rods heat to the point where their uranium fuel starts to melt and collects in a puddle on the reactor floor. A partial meltdown occurred during the nuclear accident at Three Mile Island in Middletown, Pa., on March 28, 1979, the worst commercial accident in U.S. history. 
The world's worst nuclear accident occurred on April 26, 1986, at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in Soviet Ukraine. It in­volved an explosion at a graphite-block moderated reac­tor. 
Tuesday's accident was caused when a plant operator mistakenly flipped a switch. 
Clarification 

In a story in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly reported the amount of the possible fines that The Commons owner Pasquale Anastasio faces. Anastasio faces maximum fines of $500 for each minor cited in Friday's S.U.D.S. raid. The Observer regrets the error. 
Also in that story were two possible false citations made by the Stop Underage Drinking 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
the Bush campaign. 
"Clinton's huge defense cuts would put into question our ability to fight another Desert Storm," Campbell said. 
Pattison agreed that a huge military force is no longer needed with the threat of the Soviet Union and communism gone, but stressed the need to maintain a strong military and continue to develop defense technologies in case emergen­cies arise. 

"We don't need as large a military as before," he said, 
"but there are still places like Bosnia and Somalia where a strong military force may be needed." 
"Defense cuts should be based on what is needed," O'Brien said. "Hopefully we will have smart people making smart decisions and not blindly making cuts." 
Forum 
continued from page 1 

dents. Those present also discussed the possibilities of renovating an older building or moving a department to make room for the new center. 
Cannon said the center should open in the fall of 1993. 
and Sales (S.U.D.S.) officers. Although Notre Dame junior Gregory Gallagher and senior Erik Hanson were listed on the arrest file obtained by The Observer, both students are 21 years old and were not at The Commons at the time. 
"We may have got some misinformation without proper identification," said Sgt. Gregory Deitchley of the Indiana excise police. "I don't know yet, we're still trying to figure it out." 
All Students Interested in Law School Information Are Invited to Attend the 
LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN 
Monday, October 5 
10:00 a.m. --2:00 p.Dl. Monogram Room, JACC 
(Enter Gate 2, Then Upstairs) 
Representatives From Over 50 Law Schools Nationwide 
Co-sponsored by Career and Placement Services and Pre-Law Society 
-------~-----------------------~----­
Thursday, October 1 , 1992 The Observer page 5 
Beauchamp praises University for commitment to c:ommunity service 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame would not be where it is today without its in­volvement with local commu­nity service projects, Executive Vice President Father E. William Beauchamp said Wednesday.During a President's Luncheon for local business leaders, Beauchamp praised the University's "ongoing commitment to serve the community and prepare our students to wholeheartedly and enthusiastically do so in the decades ahead." 
Beauchamp called Notre Dame's partnership with the local community "something that is integral to this Univer­sity" and something which can be traced back throughout Notre Dame's 150-year history. 
As one example of this part­nership, Beauchamp cited South Bend's Center for the 

Willinm Beauchamp 
Homele:;s, which NO estab­lished in 1952 in cooperation with the city. "The result of this joint effort," Beauchamp said, "is the Greation of a center which is recognized around this country a,s a model program." 
Beauchamp also mentioned the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and its programs such as Urban Plunge, Best Buddies and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. Programs such as 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE
•

VAmerican Heart Association 

-----,
..._---._-._-.__, 
__ ._._._ ... 
AT SAINT JOSEPH 

:for (jraduate Students and:Jacu{ty 
We alSo fiave furnisfiec£ e~ecutive suit:es 
Office Hours: Moncfay-J"riday 9 a.rn.-6 p.m. Saturcfay 10 a.m.-~'p.m. 
307 LaSa[{e Jtvenue, Soutfi 'Bent£ Indiana 46617 (219) 28 7-2684 

these "are life experiences that will always remain with the young men and women who have been fortunate enough to go out into the community and be a part of them," he said. 
Through the CSC, "the flame of a commitment to serve others for a lifetime is enkin­dled in our students," Beauchamp said. 
The University involves itself in such service programs be­cause "the Notre Dame com­munity is part of a larger com­munity in Michiana," Beauchamp said. "(They are) an acknowledgement that what happens in Michiana happens 
The Observer/Julie Kozdras 
to us, that all of us share in the joys and sorrows, the pains and In deep thought tragedies-the people-who 
A Notre Dame student catches up on her reading for her classes as
form the fiber of this commu­
midterms quickly approach. 
nity." 

Student Government committee to present education report to Board of Trustees 
By EMILY HAGE News Writer 

The Student Government Standing Committee for Un­dergraduate Education will present their report, "Upholding the Mission: Teaching and Research at a National Catholic University," to the Board of Trustees today. 
The aim of this report is to address students' concern for the quality of undergraduate education and to review the faculty, administration, and Student Government to find ways to improve them. The re­port follows last February's re­port, "Back to Basics," 
Robert Bleil, director of the speakers bureau of the commit­tee, said that the committee is optimistic. "We've become much more pointed in our reso­lutions," said Bleil, "I believe that the ideas that we've pre­sented in the report are work­able ideas." 
The committee's report says that Notre Dame is a Catholic institution for undergraduate education first: "Undergraduate excellence must be protected and graduate studies and re­search must be promoted, but neither at the cost of the other." 
The report says that to achieve its goals, the under­graduate program needs enough regular faculty to teach, especially University require­ments. Research began when the Legal Department of the 1990-91 Student Government alerted the University to its large class sizes and decreasing class availability. After ex-

Ill ALUMNI 
SENI011 

~!:CLUB 
THURSDAY NIGHT Need We Say More? The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 
9--2 
must be 21 
amining student, faculty, and University reports, the commit­tee found: 
•"the 
need for structured teaching incentives, 

•the 
need for the improve­ment of academic life both in and out of the classroom, and 

•the 
need for a serious exam­ination of the undergraduate academic program." 


The report says that under­graduates are also responsible for the quality of their educa­tion at Notre Dame. They should take advantage of fac­ulty members' office hours, ad­visors, and the Hall Fellows Program. 
The report also says that the University, also, should en­courage such programs as the Hall Fellows Program. 
The committee made several recommendations: 
•A 
"Center for Excellence in Teaching should be established at Notre Dame" where faculty members and graduate stu­dents could learn to improve their teaching skills. It would have a full-time director who holds a Ph.D. and has class­room teaching experience. 

•A 
university-wide program for aiding graduate students with teaching methods should be established for short term needs. 

•Departments 
should en­courage teaching and mentor relationships with undergradu­ates by using a Teaching Port­folio; "dedicating at least one meeting per year to teaching or holding departmental teaching 


workshops; emphasizing the importance of teaching at all stages of hiring and the tenure process; and improving un­dergraduate advising in the department." 
•University, 
colleges, and/or departments should establish endowed chairs and awards based on the quality of teach­ing. 

•The 
University should sup­port lecture/discussion series involving faculty of all depart­ments within the different col­leges. 

•"The 
administration and Faculty Senate should voice of­ficial supports for the Hall Fel­lows and set out a series of con­crete goals and aspirations by which the residence halls may measure their success." 

•The 
University should en­courage College Fellow Pro­gram in each college. •"The University should not resort to the use of gates." The commit­tee defines gates as institutional barriers that limit the number of students allowed in each discipline of the University. Today, departments have no sure means of knowing how many students they will be teaching. They suggest a voucher system, in which de­partments "would be given a voucher for every student who enrolls as a major, thereby re­warding them for a number of students rather than meeting the departments by gates." 

•The 
University should find short term solutions to lessen the strain of not employing enough faculty and try to hire more faculty. 


Keller receives award for outstanding scientists 
Special to The Observer trolling chemical reactions by 
breaking bonds of molecules. 
James Keller, assistant pro­This work is unique because fessor of chemistry at Notre three lasers, instead of one, are Dame, has received a 1992 used to break specific bonds of Camille and Henry Dreyfus New the molecules. Faculty Award, one of 14 such awards given nationally each The Camille and Henry Drey­year. fus Foundation is dedicated to 
The award, presented by the the "advancement of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus science of chemistry, chemical Foundation, recognizes and engineering and related promotes the teaching potential sciences as a means of improv­of outstanding scientists. The ing human relations and cir­award program was estab­cumstances around the world." lished in 1979 to provide fund­ing for new faculty members at The foundation was estab­the beginning of their first full­lished in 1946 by inventor time academic appointments. Camille Dreyfus as a memorial 
The ND chemistry depart­to his brother, Henry Dreyfus. It ment has received a $25,000 became a memorial to both grant to support Keller's re­men when Camille Dreyfus died search, which focuses on con-in 1956. 
r----~-----------------~---------~--------------~---~-~----~-----~­
The Observer 

page 6 Thursday, October 1,1992 

Exceeding Expectations 




It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. There are many reasons to join Deloitte & Touche ­our c/;ents, our dedication to qua/;ty, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: to cons;stent/y exceed the expectat;ons o/our c/;ents and our people. 
With 16,500 people in more than 100 offices in the United States, and through our global organization, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse port/olio o/ services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a j,·rm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the following graduates /rom the Class of '92 who have recently joined Deloitte & Touche: 
Nancy Arena Stacey Durante Tim Gray Terrance O'Connell jennifer Shimp 
Barbara Bryn john Evans III Nancy Kesmode/ ]i'm Panacek Peter Slamkowski 
Noemi Bueser Gary Faucher Mark May Greg Ritacco Michael Smith 
Greg Cooper Scott Frigon Todd Miller 
In addition, Adrienne Speyer and Kimberlee Steel are first /rom the Class of '93 to accept an offer ofemployment a/ter graduation. 
Deloitte& 
Welcome Adrienne and Kim! 
Touche
The above professionals are joining our offices in Chicago, Cincinnati, Indianapo/;s, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, Parsippany, Pittsburgh, Seattle, and Washington, D. C. 


Accounting, Tax, and Consultin~ Services 
We L 1 s t e n • We D e 11 v e r • 

Deloitte Touche T ohrnatsu International 
Deloitte c-! Touche is an equal opyortunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 
Thursday, October 1, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Family leave veto sustained 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The House on Wednesday easily sustained President Bush's veto of a bill requiring many businesses to give their workers time off in family emergencies. Democrats pledged to redouble efforts to make "family leave" a major issue in the campaign for the White House. 
The vote on the politically charged bill was 258-169, well short of the two-thirds majority needed to override Bush. It was the 33rd consecutive time Bush has made his veto stick. 
The vote came as lawmakers rushed to wrap up their busi­ness for the year and return home to tend to their own polit­ical concerns. From legislation fixing education policy to a bill providing Israeli loan guaran­tees to a measure to move a federal air and space museum annex to Denver -nothing was too large or too small to attract the attention of lawmakers. 
In defeat on the family-leave bill, supporters said the veto would reverberate in next month's presidential election. Democrat Bill Clinton supports the measure; Bush has pro­moted "family values" as a campaign theme. 

"This issue frames this cam­paign," said Rep. Patricia Schroeder. "Yes, it really is about who is for families." 
Despite the partisan split, 42 Democrats deserted their party and voted to sustain Bush's veto. Thirty-eight Republicans voted to override the president. 
The measure was strongly opposed by lobbyists for small business. Opponents pointed to Bush's eleventh-hour alterna­tive, $500 million in tax credits for businesses that grant the unpaid leave to workers. 
"There's a better, more ef­fective way," said House Minor­ity Leader Bob Michel (R-Ill). 
The action is the second time Bush has vetoed a family leave bill and made it stick. Although he voiced support for the con­cept during his 1988 election campaign, Bush vetoed a simi­lar measure in 1990. 
The action followed an emo­tional debate in which support­ers of the bill both condemned Bush's veto as uncaring and vowed that if Clinton is elected, a tougher family leave law will be enacted next year. 
Despite the rhetoric, Bush's 
veto was sustained with room to spare. To reach the two-thirds majority needed to override, supporters would have needed to switch the votes of 27 opponents. 
The vote was on only one of several contentious issues de­cided in the press toward ad­journment. Lobbyists on a va­riety of issues filled the legisla­tive corridors, and in a typical scene, white-haired women opposing a Democratic-spon­sored education bill mingled with feminist leaders seeking votes for the family leave overide. 
The House voted overwhelm­ingly as expected to override another Bush veto of a bill that would slap conditions on re­newal next year of China's trade status with the United States. Most-favored nation status, enjoyed by China and most other U.S. trading part­ners, imparts the lowest avail­able tariffs on a country's ex­ports to America. 
The vote was 345-74, well over the two-thirds needed. Bush vetoed a similar measure previously, and attempts to override fell short in the Senate. 
A Support Gro1up for RAPE SURVI\'ORS 
•Open 
to all St. Mary's & Notre Dame Undergraduate and Graduate Women 

•Completely 
confidential & Free of Charge 

•Held 
on Campus 


For more information, 
call Sex Offense Services a:t 234-0061, ext. 1308 

Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welco1ne 
domingo, 4 de octubn:! 
10:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante 
Padre Richard Wilkinson, C.S.C. 
Sponsored by
Campus Minostry(HAO) Hispanic 
Americ1n 
Organization
-0fv1PUS 
MINISTRY 

House approves education reform bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The mediate veto threat from Edu­parents who could then use the · House on Wednesday rebuffed cation Secretary Lamar funds for tuition at the school of President Bush's plan to help Alexander. "I am recommend­their choice, including public, parents send their children to ing that the president reject private or parochial. Clinton private or parochial schools and such cynical end-of-the-session opposes extending the choice to instead passed a bill that more high jinks. This is not an educa­private and parochial schools. closely parallels a school tion bill; it is a monument to Democrats repeatedly rejected "choice" approach backed by business-as-usual thinking," he Republican efforts to expand Democratic presidential candi­said. parents' school choices to date Bill Clinton. The measure, which was sent private and parochial institu­
On a 254-166 vote, House to the Senate, calls for federal tions in earlier floor debates Democrats rejected a move by funding for schools that want to and during meetings of House Rep. William Goodling (R-Pa.) to implement various new and Senate negotiators. force adoption of one of Bush's programs to boost student aca­"This bill represents a tri­key education initiatives of the demic performance. The bill umph of reason and a triumph campaign year. was passed on a voice vote. of commonsense," said Rep. 
The vote prompted an im-Bush favors giving vouchers to Major Owens (D-N. Y.) noting American students have diffi­culty reaching "world-class standards when they attend
Hey Kegger! 
Third World schools." Rep. Nita Lowery (D-N.Y.)
Hope you find that special 
agreed. "This bill supports comprehensive, systemic re­forms . . . and every family in 
Waldo on your birthday! 


America can be part of the pro­cess." But she blamed "partisan 
Love, 

squabbles and presidential politics" on the mixed reviews
Bono, your 
of the bill. 

obnoxious friends, IRISH IRISH
and the Grranimal next door. 
Go Irish Beat Cardinal 
CHILD CARE AWARENESS WEEK SEPTEMBER 28-OCTOBER 2, 1992 
CAMPUS FORUM ON CHILD CARE 
Wednesday, September 30 7:00pm Foster Room (3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center) Issues: What are child care needs on campus? What makes quality child care? How can we bring quality. affordable care to NO? 
The second annual 

BRING YOUR CHILD TO LUNCH DAY Friday. October 2 12 noon Lunch at Oak Room (South Dining Hall) at 12:45 or so (weather permitting) Play on lawns in front of the Dome (Administration building) Balloons & sidewalk chalk available 
All students. staff and faculty members are invited to join us Let's give kids a chance at NOtre Dame! 
sponsored by 1he Graduale Sludem Union and 1he Give Kids a Chance coallllon 
page 8 The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1992 
Hillary Clinton news coverage fans tensions 
ARLINGTON, Va. (AP) ­News coverage of Hillary Clin­ton during the presidential campaign has fanned tensions between "homemakers" and "working mothers," according to a study released Wednesday by the Freedom Forum. 
Coverage of the wife of Democratic nominee Bill Clin­ton, including reports on her political activism, was cited in a study that said "simplistic" news coverage increases dis­cord among groups in society. 
"The media appears to be­lieve, rightly or wrongly, that good news doesn't sell," said the study, conducted for Women, Men and Media, a group largely funded by the Freedom Forum. 
"Hence, its overemphasis on conflict and simplistic, stark drama -the infamous we vs. they syndrome, the 'black and white' aspects, the horse race." 
"Hillary Clinton has been the subject of a substantial amount of media ink," the report said. "Most of this has fanned the tensions between 'homemakers' and 'working mothers' -'the mommy 
wars.~ 
"There is no question that the backlash against the em­powerment of women is being exacerbated by the 1992 elec­tion campaign, in both political commercials and media cover­age," said author and lecturer Betty Friedan, co-chair of Women, Men and Media. 
The Freedom Forum de­scribes itself as an international organization dedicated to free press, free speech and free spirit. Women, Men and Media describes itself as a national research and 


Hillary Clinton 
outreach project headquartered at New York University's Department of Journalism. 
Women, Men and Media commissioned M. Junior Bridge, president of Unabridged Communications, to conduct the study. It said the opinions expressed are hers and not necessarily those of the Freedom Forum or Women, Men and Media. 
The study examined news coverage in Newsweek, Time, 
U.S. News & World Report, Chicago Tribune, Houston Chronicle, Los Angeles Times, The New York Times, The Philadelphia Inquirer, USA To­day and The Washington Post. 
It said there were almost twice as many articles on Mrs. Clinton as on all of the major female candidates combined during the study period. 
Altogether, it said there were about three times as many ar­ticles on the wives of the presi­dential and vice presidential candidates as on the women who are running for office. 
"How many articles does the media run on male spouses of candidates?" the study asked. 
TV morning show campaign Politics with corn flakes in 1992 
NEW YORK (AP) -Live from New York, it's the 1992 presi­dential campaign, brought to you by Harry, Joan and Katie. 
This was American politics during one extraordinary half­hour Wednesday: President Bush, Bill Clinton and Ross Perot appearing in simultane­ous interviews on the three network television morning shows. 
Not everyone likes it, but this is the new political soapbox. 
The morning shows, along with other non-traditional polit­ical forums such as "Larry King Live" and Rush Limbaugh's radio call-in show, have been the settings for some of the most important moments of the 1992 campaign. 
At no time has that been truer than this week, when Bush is appearing three days on ABC's "Good Morning America" and Clinton is matching him with three taped appearances on NBC's "Today." 
In addition, Clinton is hitting "Good Morning America" and "CBS This Morning" and Perot is appearing on "CBS This Morning," "Today" and "Larry King Live." 
And late Wednesday, CNN announced that Bush would appear in a special Sunday edi­tion of King's show to be taped at the White House. 
So, flipping from station to station at about 7:40 a.m. Wednesday, there was Joan Lunden interviewing Bush on "Good Morning America," Katie Couric in a taped interview with Clinton on "Today" and Harry Smith with Perot on CBS. 
Some critics complain that the candidates are shunning experienced political journalists in favor of generalists who juggle politics with many other, lighter topics. 
There also has been a report -denied by his campaign ­that Bush has a list of least fa­vored broadcast journalists he avoids. 
In a speech to broadcast ex­ecutives in San Antonio last week, Leslie Stahl, a corre­spondent for CBS' "60 Min­utes," said she was told Bush had blacklisted Dan Rather of CBS, Peter Jennings and George Will of ABC and Tim Russert and Bryant Gumble of NBC. 
Stahl said Tuesday that had she heard about the list from Don Hewitt, the executive pro­ducer of "60 Minutes." Hewitt confirmed that he had told her, but wouldn't divulge his own source. 
But whether or not there is such a list may be moot. It is clear that Bush in particular, and all the candidates to some extent, have been carefully se­lecting where, and by whom, they will be interviewed. 
Jack Reilly, executive pro­ducer of "Good Morning Amer­ica," said it took about a dozen telephone discussions with Bush campaign officials over several months before the president would agree to ap­pear on the show. The "Today" show has tried in vain for about a year to get Bush to appear, according to its executive producer, Jeff Zucker. 
None of this has necessarily meant that voters are seeing less of the candidates. What is new is where they are turning up, and the people by whom they are being interviewed. 
"I think there's been a real revolution in the way television covers politics this year," said Zucker. 
For example, there has been the "Larry King" syndrome: Candidates appearing on shows in which they were questioned by members of the public, ei­ther by telephone or in a studio audience. 
"This preoccupation with non­traditional media just shows the candidates will do anything to avoid being beaten up by Sam Donaldson," said Robert Lichter, co-director of the Center for Media and Public Affairs in Washington. 
The upside is that viewers see more of the candidates than they might otherwise. And members of the public ask more issue-oriented questions than political reporters, who can be more interested in the mechanics of politics. 
The downside is that viewers are denied the expertise of re­porters who have covered poli­tics and government for many years. Also, the call-in show format in particular discour­ages follow-up questions that are often necessary to pin down candidates on difficult issues. 
That didn't apply Wednesday morning, when none of the programs used the call-in for­mat. But they certainly pro­vided a friendlier, less con­frontational environment for candidates than they might have found on evening news shows or news conferences. 
Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania who specializes in political communication, refers to the morning shows as "soft news," as opposed to the "hard news" evening news broadcasts. 
Bush proposals get tough on 'deadbeat dads· 
FOND DU LAC, Wis. (AP) ­Reaching out to women voters, President Bush on Wednesday proposed measures to get tough on "deadbeat dads" who fail to pay child support. 
In a new proposal just 34 days before the election, Bush called for penalties ranging from revoking driver's licenses to putting parents in prison in some cases for being delinquent in their child support. "Each year, $5 billion in court-ordered child support -$5 billion ­fails to reach families and kids who desperately need it," Bush said. 
The president, trailing in the polls, also taunted Democrat Bill Clinton for not accepting his challenge for four debates. 
"He waffles. I can't find him. He's lost. He's missing in action. He refuses on this issue to take a position one way or the other, just like on all these other issues," said Bush, who for weeks took political heat for refusing to consent to debates proposed by a bipartisan commission. Clinton's position is that Bush should show up for the two debates still scheduled by the commission. 
Campaigning in Wisconsin and New Jersey, Bush tried to close the ''gender gap" in which women are far more hesitant than men to support the president. 
In Newark, the president also renewed his attack on Clinton as an advocate of higher taxes and bigger government. Brushing aside Clinton's criticism of his record, Bush said the election isn't about the past "but what we're going to do in the future and our hopes for the future." 

"We have to change the American system of child sup­port, and the statistics there are not pretty," the president said. He said that in 1989, fathers were absent from 10 million families, and only a little more than half of absent parents have been ordered to pay child support. 
"And those required to pay, only half do on time and in full. And only one in five absent parents pay for children's health care." 
Bush said his plan would re­quire all states to recognize and enforce other states' child sup­port orders. 
And, he said, "We will require organizations who receive support from the Legal Services Corp. to devote 10 percent of their federal funds to helping mothers who need legal help track down a deadbeat dad. 
"And we will say to deadbeat parents who owe and haven't paid, then you're going to pay a price. You'll get no passport, no professional licenses, no hous­ing or student loans or any other help from the federal government until you do right by your children." 
ffi~~~~l~a )f~Jrg£)! 
CCMINC TC SAINT MArtY'S rniDAY. ccTC~!n sTH 
WATCH ron ~!TAILS 
1992-93 editions of 
du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures and Student Handbook 
are available to students in the Office of Hesidence Life 315 Administration Building 
ND-SMC 
Students 
20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON  ROME  
May 19, June 18  June 13, July 12  
ravel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland, and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING Monday Oct. 5 
6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284A460 or 272,3726 
Business 
Thursday, October 1, 1992 page 9 
Accounting club sponsors job forum 
Ernst & Young, Baxter discuss private and corporate accounting 
INSIDE BUSINESS 
The future ctf Business 
Last week, I sat next to the newsstand in LaFortune Student Center and looked at which section people turned to first when they picked up a newspaper. Not surprisingly, most people read the front page or the sports section first. Not one person that I saw even turned to the business page. 
It is unfortunate that most Americans don't realize how important business is, whether it be the president's fiscal policy or the status of the local steel mill. When the presidential candidates emphasize investment or discuss the North American Free Trade Agreement, sadly enough only a small minority of the population understands the issues at hand. 
Business is the heartbeat of every society's in­frastructure. In terms of supporting our personal interests, local business is just as important as national economics and finance. This is why it is crucial to put more emphasis on campw; busi­ness issues and events. 
That is why The Observer is implementing changes to the business page to allow it to reach its potential by appealing to the readers' inter­ests. 
As of next week the business page will be running on Tuesdays and Fridays. Fridays we will run a guest column by students studying business or professors in the business school, or editorials on economic issues by interested students or organizations like The Heritage Foundation, The Brookings Institute or Indiana Policy Review. 
Each day, we will run business news briefs from prior days and a report on the most active trading and volume leaders among the New York Stock Exchange and the American Stoek Ex­change. We also plan to track Dow Jones over each week. 
The Observer plans to increase its coverage of campus business news, also. With so many cam­pus business clubs and societies, it would be a great benefit to our readers to inform them cam­pus news. 
All these ideas are the result of input from The Observer staff and others in the surrounding community. If you have any suggestions on how we could further improve the business page do not hesitate to call or write us. 


BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Ford Motor Co. to reduce CFC's 
•DEARBORN, Mich. -Ford Motor Co. plans to cut 90 percent -or 7 million pounds -· of the chloroflurocarbons (CFCs) it uses in its worldwide manufacturing processes by the end of 1992, the automaker announced Tuesday. Ford also an­nounced Tuesday that it will re-engineer its car and truck air conditioning systems to operate on a CFC-free refrigerant so that all new 1994 models will have CFC-free air conditioning systems. The company's new Mark VIII, scheduled to debut in December, will use a CFC-free airconditioning system. Ford's worldwide CFC phase out program brought praise from the Environmental Protection Agency, which awarded Ford its 1992 Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award on Tues­day. 
Sale of houses jumps in August 
•WASHINGTON-Housing sales jumped 10.4 percent in August, to a seasonally adjusted an­nual rate of 1.24 million, the first increase in three months. But analysts said new construction would level off and cited a 1.6 percent decline in applications for building permits. The lowe1· rates also failed to boost sales of previously owned homes in August. They fell 3.2 percent, to a sea­sonally adjusted annual rate of 3.34 milli(]n, the fourth drop in five months, according to the Na­tional Association of Realtors. The Realtors at­tributed the decline to "consumer uneas:lness" over the persistent economic sluggish­ness.Regionally, sales plunged 19.5 percent in the West, to a 140,000 seasonally adjusted annual rate. 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Business Writer 
Representatives of the Baxter company and Ernst &Young firm came together to discuss the differences between working in the private sector versus the public sector. 
"This was a great, rare opportunity for students to compare and question a combined public and corporate panel explaining these firms' operations and future goals," said Dave Beliveau, president of Notre Dame Accounting Association. 
"Keep your eyes open and think of where you want to be," stated Cindy Shafer, manager of corporate consolidation at Baxter. 
Shafer was employed with PriceWaterhouse for six years before switching to Baxter. According to her, entering into the auditing field seemed to be the right start after college. Viewing different settings gave her the clues she needed to tell which "which I could fit into and which to avoid". 
According to Shafer, changing to Baxter was the right decision because of the company's diverse subsidiaries and variety in job possibilities. 
"I wanted first-hand exposure of Baxter so I chose going into corporate auditing," said Shafer. 
Having many job choices at Baxter is not surprising, according to Debbie Basak, financial associate in corporate auditing for Baxter. 
Baxter is the largest health care product and services company in the 
world.  As  a  $  9  billion  dollar  
company,  $7  billion  is  grossed  
domestically.  

Students beginning at Baxter usually enter into FDP (financial development program), according to Basak. During the first two years a rotation system is set up so that 

United Auto Workers accepts settlement in Michigan GM 
David Beliveau 
people can get exposure to different jobs. 
For instance, corporate functions one can step into include cost accounting and financial reporting, said Basak. Corporate reporting allowed her to understand Baxter stock and Wall Street business. 
Entry-level possibilities include corporate consulting and corporate tax, but one does not have to be in the United States to build up experience. 
"An international rotation exists where you could go to Mexico, Canada, Spain or England to name a few," said Basak. 
Being in corporate auditing has allowed Basak to travel in­ternationally to countries such as Italy and view divisions of Baxter. 
"We are always dying for people to go overseas," said Doug Ingram, part of a tax and financial services group at Ernst & Young. But according to Ingram, at Baxter employees need a couple of years experience before going out internationally. 
After two years in the program, entry-level people can interview for any desired job opening. 
"I really enjoyed that it continually moves and changes...but it was all nitty gritty auditing in the begin-
LANSING, Mich. (AP) -Workers at a General Motors plant in Lansing were back on the job today, a day after voting to settle a four-day walkout. 
GM spokeswoman Linda Cook said all of the plant's first-shift employees had reported for work and "we are building cars right now." Cook said there were no reported worker protests, and GM also expected other shift workers to report for regular duty today. 
United Auto Workers Local 602 voted 60 percent to 40 percent Tuesday night to return to the line today, ending the second walkout this month against the No. 1 automaker. 
But under the agreement, UAW members at the plant will vote Dec. 1 on a key issue in the dispute ­whether to take breaks all at once, as GM proposes. 
"We don't consider that GM's going to win on this," said Jim Sickles, a UAW International representative. Sickles said 2,383 workers voted. 
The agreement allows some 7,200 workers to return to their jobs. That includes about 4,200 striking workers and 3,000 others at an affected Lansing chassis plant that completes assembly of the popular Pontiac GrandAm. 
GM's desire to have all workers take breaks at once sparked the Lansing dispute. The breaks would have let GM eliminate the jobs of 300 to 350 workers who relieved front-line operators during their rotating breaks. 
But GM said through a spokeswoman that regardless of how the workers ultimately decide to take their breaks, about 550 plant jobs will still be lost. 
GM plans to cut production at the plant due to lower car sales, and when it does jobs will be cut, said the spokeswoman, Linda Cook. 
Members of Local 602 also had 
complained that some health, safety 
and work standards at the plant 
violated their agreement. 
Workers walked off the job Friday at the Lansing plant, which makes the outer body of the Grand Am, GM's second best-selling car, and two other models. 
The auto giant, paralyzed by an earlier strike against its Lordstown, Ohio plant, remains dogged by labor troubles in Indiana. Another potentially disruptive strike is brewing at a factory in Anderson, Ind. 
A strike there could cripple GM production systemwide because the plant supplies more than 95 percent of all exterior lighting, except for headlamps, to GM car and truck assembly plants in North America. 
UAW Local 663 earlier this month asked the union for a required letter informing the company a strike could occur in five days. No letter had been issued as of Tuesday, said Karl Mantyla, a UAW spokesman in Detroit. 
ning," said Wayne Ebersberger, accounting manager at Ernst & Young. 
As a 1976 Notre Dame graduate, Ebersberger said he did not know much coming out but he learned quickly. Ernst & Young also have different levels that new employees can test. 
As for earning a masters degree, Ebersberger points out that employees do not necessarily need one. There is no glass ceiling and the most important thing an employee can do is devote one's best talents to going as far as one can, according to Ebersberger. 
"Some of my friends started simultaneously on their masters and their job but I don't believe that is the way to go," said Doug Ingram. Employees should get a couple of years under their belt before apply­ing for a specific masters program. Knowing what field one wants to specialize in is important, according to Ingram. 
A May 1991 Notre Dame graduate, Ingram said that there are many different levels employees can choose from. Those include insurance, manufacturing, consumer, personal financial planning and health care divisions. 
In the end, students have to go with their own feelings on which sector they would want to begin working. "1 am a recruiter but I am not going to sway you one way. It is your decision," said Tom McCabe, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate working for Baxter. 
The forum which was held in the Hayes-Healy auditorium was sponsored by the Notre Dame Accounting Association and Beta Alpha Psi, the accounting society. 
· The UnitedStates ay issued · a new its tr!:lns-Atiantic war (~rm. ·su~~i~i~s .. . . ···•· th~ ·ElirQpea~ 
l"YUln>1'" pay compensation in a · · ·· cooki1Ig oil 

~-------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, October 1, 1992 
OON'T YOU S/3£? 
YOU STRIPPeO HIM OF Hl5/rlANHOOPl 
/ 
CFca.J/?5£ I//!//! 
7HA7's 
MY JOB! 
\ 

'A single person truly on fire with the love of God is more useful than many lukewarm souls.' 
Saint Teresa of Avila 
Don't get spit out, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .....................• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .•........... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
IAll l:he ~~,; horses and all the ~; men..... j 
Pro-lifers' actions rather mild 
The uncivil behavior of some pro-lifers during Gov. Clinton's Notre Dame speech has aroused justified disapproval if the alleged behavior occurred. 
Nevertheless, those who be­lieve a little intemperate heck­ling impeaches the pro-life po­sition might want to reconsider lest the same standard force them to reject other, more po­litically correct views. 
For the NO pro-lifers' ex­cesses were negligible com­pared to the war on free speech successfully waged on other campuses in the name of a va­riety of left-wing causes. Con­sider these examples: 
• Former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Jeane Kirk­patrick, when invited to the University of California at Berkeley to deliver their pres­tigious Jefferson Lectures, was virtually prevented from doing so. 
Demonstrators in death masks heckled and screamed at her throughout her remarks, rendering most of her comments unintelligible. 
A similar fate awaited her both at the University of Min­nesota when the Hubert Humphrey Institute brought her to campus as a guest lecturer, and then again at the University of Washington. 
Moreover, organized left-wing lobbying on many campuses has repeatedly resulted in the revocation of Kirkpatrick's invitation to spea~. 
• At Northwestern University in 1985, Nicaraguan Contra 
DOONESBURY 

Mona Walsh Holland 
Guest Columnist 
leader Adolfo Calero was scheduled to deliver a public lecture. 
A large group of protestors, led by an English professor, prevented the audience from hearing Calero's remarks. 
The professor mounted the stage and announced, "We are not going to let him speak... he should feel lucky to get out of here alive." 
When a student protestor threw fake blood at Calero, se­curity personnel escorted him from the building. 
• More recently, university administrators have been ex­ercising a prior restraint on po­litically incorrect speakers, e.g., the University of Illinois and Edwin Meese. 
A conservative student there, Celeste Ann Lawson, arranged for Meese to address the cam­pus. 
Subsequently, however, campus radicals manifested their furious disapproval, upon which the administration in­formed Lawson that Meese constituted an "attractive nui­sance." 
She and her fellow conservative students, as spon­sors of this "nuisance," were advised they must raise sub­stantial funds for additional se­curity before the former United States Attorney General would be allowed on campus. 
In the face of Lawson's calls to the governor and other state officials, the university adminis­tration backed down. 
Nevertheless, that the Uni­versity of Illinois and other uni­versity administrations (at Hamilton College and George­town) have rewarded leftist threats of violence with official attempts to prohibit conserva­tive speakers on campus-in the name of security-should appall civil libertarians of every politi­cal stripe. 
• Finally, supporters of the choice to kill the unborn have demonstrated far worse behav­ior than anything imputed to NO pro-lifers. 
For instance, last spring prominent pro-life activist Joe Scheidler was to speak at Indi­ana University. But when he began his remarks, shrieking and chanting students threw objects at him, such as spit­balls; at least one charged the podium. 
Only minutes into his re­marks, nervous university administrators had security remove Scheidler from what had become an angry, frenzied mob. 
The overwhelming evidence, then, is that when it comes to assaults on free speech, pro-lif­ers (and others holding politi­cally incorrect views) are venial sinners, and more often sinned against than sinning. 
Mona Walsh Holland is a Uni­versity of Notre Dame law stu­dent. 
6U&55 tf/HO I NA/!£1? ?WAYOV 7HE3 VWTURA 
R?£&/A/AY-SIP.' 
\ 

HAO 7lJ, R.XJ/.... BUTH&il... W513 H/5 51£/? YOU 81at/8YMI? t.!Ct/o/513.1 HE3 WON'T GA~51// AT !05M.P.H. .' 8t ABU 7lJWM 7lJ A T/CJ(£T2 UJORJ<.1 H&'U-HAVP 
70 TAK& TH& 8U5!

\ \ 
I\1\I\1\I\I\M\fll\l\hi\IIAI\I\.I\I\I\I\I\I\f\ 

This eool b~own~~ ~Iid~~·O;.::ur:'.:i_i ~;r,;;,s;;tj; .Tmi~eting To a tangible sense of afternoon, This afternoon,inwhich a smallb:lrd's Flutter~g freedth~ first red .deaths Sprinklng the darker greertlawns shatlows, soulS whisp~ring l oricetold Y()~,,lJtivedTo hear. .,, 
Women's soccer thanks fans, extends invitation 
Dear Editor: Carroll guys for their loyal and 
On behalf of the players and loud support. (See you in coaches of the women's soccer Texas!) team, we want to take this op­We have a big weekend portunity to say thank you to coming up. Friday night at 5 everyone who came to watch p.m. against #13 Wisconsin­last Friday night's game against Madison and Sunday afternoon Duke. at 12:30 against #2 Stanford. 
They announced the atten­Hope to see you at Alumni dance to be 1,492. That is by Field. far the biggest crowd ever for one of our games. Denise Chabot 
The enthusiasm and spirit Margaret Jarc helped to motivate the entire Michelle Lodyga team. Women's Soccer Tri-Captains 
A special thanks goes to the Sept. 28, 1992 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

-.
Viewpoint

Thursday, October 1 , 1992 page 11 
The rhythm of clemocracy demands dancing, not running 
"The result of these troubled years is that today 65 percent of Americans believe that their political leaders are corrupt and that there is no favorable majority party. only two seriously flawed parties" 
-Mark Shields a political analyst 

"set the gearshift for the high gear of your soul. you've got to run like an antelope out of control 
-The Dude of Life a dude of life 

Meadow, Chapter One. 
Maybe it was the illogical illumination of rhetorical lightning or the deafening crash of political thunder that awoke young Meadow, disturbing the dreamy, bud­dhahood silence of the cool, but stormy and restless Election Year night. 
Of course, Meadow would've never taken the rap for his own awakening nightmares ... at least, not in the last decade of the 20th century, when people had to look no farther than 'Vtother Nature or Father Time to blame their troubles upon. 
People could lay guilt out on anybody or anything, from the limousine liberals to the Cadillac conservatives, the ice­t's or guns or roses, Republicans, Democrats, or maybe even Libertarians (whoever the hell they were). environmentalists or Realtors, and more than likely, parents. 
Why, even Meadow was surely at fault for something or the other, could be that his long locks of unkept hair and greasy flannel shirts had decayed the traditional family values of a nation, inciited riots in the low rent districts of Los Angeles, or blocked the path to the Great American Dream. 
Who would've known? Surely not Meadow, who only wanted to step outside his mind, walk around a nearby lake, and brave the acidic rains of the Election Year night, trying to forget the national mess while getting onward with pleasant dreams of, perhaps, some electoral college, far, far, away. 
The problem for Meadow, poor politically defeated Meadow, was that he really couldn't waJk away from things, no matter how hard he tried, especially not in the last decade of the 20th century. 
"It's like the White House has become s orne sorta weird discount liquor store, pandering to wrinkled ol' winos who beg through missing teeth for just one more gulp of cheap promises and false hopes," Meadow thought aloud as he turned the corner along the lake's tree-lined path. 
"Believe it or not, the place is doing pretty good business too, 'cuz they've been the only suppliers around for the past 12 years. People have just become too damn afraid to go across the street and try out the new guys in town." 
"Granted, they could easily be a coupla travelling salesmen, quacks, ex-flower children in two-piece suits who are just passing through after they dodged thfl draft and tried to inhale, although they didn't 
It's A Dogma Eat Dogma World 
Guy Loranger 
have the heart and lungs to hold it in, and maybe they still don't today." 
"Their catch, however, is that they're selling to the youth generation something they wanna call 'change,' sounds nice, but sounds familiar, echoes the cranked up silence I've heard for years, days, and nights, nights spent walking this lake with ..." 
"Fantasia, the beauty of youth and the spirit of innocence whom I clung so tightly to my side while declaring to her certain undefinable love things." 
"I remember the one night I bravely looked into her sad eyes and summoned the courage to tell her, 'I'm pregnant, you know,' but all she could do was laugh at my joke, rub her belly, and reply, 'Well, I'll help pay for the abortion."' 
"It angered me back then, and it still makes me wanna spit today. Yet, the only thing I said to her was, 'I don't think Rodney King is an urban prophet. I think Pat Buchannan is a walking and (regretfully) talking polyester right-wing beast. I don't like it when the press calls someone a 'tax and spend liberal,' and I certainly don't enjoy visits to the dentist, 'cuz it's annoying to have someone prying into the private parts of my mouth while telling me that Lou should have gone for the win."' 

"That stuff ticks me off, but it's nothing compared to the humiliation a woman must go through when giving up the gift of life at some dime a dozen clinic, walking past obnoxious human chains of protest that call her a 'baby murderer' when she really is just a lost child of God confused in the frenzied chaos of the last decade of the 20th century." 
"I believe in the only choice being life, but I'll be damned if I'd know what to do if I had to choose, 'cuz the first and only thing I'd think of would be, 'Dear Lord, help me see the 
light.... "Oh well, Fantasia is gone now. She ran away with the travelling salesmen and left me here, 18 years old, and about to vote for the first time in my life. It'd be alright too, if I could listen to these crazy, madcat 
political platforms being offered, but I can't. I'm a citizen, I have the right to not 
listen. I have the right to watch some completely goofy cam­paign add and yell, "What?" 
"It's hard to sit here and try, really try to absorb stuff about change here, and things should remain the same here, and we've all gotta group together and do something to compete with them guys over there. It's fourth down and ten in America, and I really just wanna punt." 
Then, without any particular reason in mind (as if there needed to be one) Meadow kicked his left foot into the air and broke into a slow jog. One foot swiftly followed the other, and then the steps became faster. Suddenly, Meadow had broken into a full trot, and then a gallup, and then into a regular hell-raising, full-speed sprint. 
He jumped over a fence, and into the yard of a nearby seminary running wildly up the hill and through a dark woods that opened into a luscious, green field. His heart pumped, his legs ached, and his mouth was as dry as a five day old martini made from bathtub gin. 
Meadow was shaken, not stirred, and running running until all he felt was the wind rushing through his veins, the rains stinging his chest, and the earth tearing apart beneath his feet, while the stormy skies above displayed an awesome firmament that screamed out, "Turn 'round, son, we's all gotta carry the weight of the world." 
Meadow stopped dead in his tracks, for it was the loudest, most melodious thing he'd ever heard. The message had a good beat, something he could dance to (if need be), and it revealed to him the foundations of a true democracy: you can't run away from things, especially not in the last decade of the 20th century; you gotta dodge the rhetorical lightning, 'cuz the political thunder usually is sure to follow; and in the entire vast expanse of the universe, there could not be a better feeling than running bare foot through wet grass in the middle of a stormy Election Year night. 
Guy Loranger is a sophomore English major at the University ofNotre Dame. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Leprosy sufferE~r asks for help 
Dear Editor: 
I am Paula C. Lidora, one of the unfortunate beings afflicted with leprosy and outcast in this far away isolated leper island. 
We are people created to suf­fer the curse of destiny because this disease eats up our flesh little by little, mercilessly de­forming every part of our body until we find ourselves bedrid­den, totally invalid, just await­ing our death. 
It is indeed sad and miserable to have this futile life, not even having the chance to see our children grow, truly sad that because of this disease, I am too bedridden and handicappedto earn a living to support and take care of five young children as my husband died long ago due to this dreadful malady. 
I cry and my heart aches whenever these children ask me for their food and dire needs, yet I have nothing to 
spare even for my most needed medicines. 
Seeing your address in an old paper, my last humble thought inspired me to write you with my sincere faith and hope that you are kind and compassionate to share with us a little space in your paper, and through you, be our way to reach the generous hearts of your people so that we can knock at the door of their mer­ciful heart~: for some help in our deplorable sad life as we con­tinue to wallow in the abject poverty and sufferings. 
The recent disaster and mis­fortunes made more miserable and unbearable our predica­ment here, making life a horri­ble nightmare. In this regard, we plead for your mercy for some help you can share with us, some of your excess food, old clothes, and some financial aid to help for our dire need and most needed medicines. 
We would gratefully accept any gifts of love you can share with us to help lighten our sad poverty-stricken life and ease our sufferings. 
You and your kindness is our only remaining hope, and we pray and confide in your Chris­tian love and mercy that you will not deny us your helping hands and a share in your abundant blessings. 
With our prayers to the Lord that He touches your hearts to reopen to us in mercy and compassion, we shall be deeply grateful to hear from you soon. 
May our Lord's blessings be showered a hundredfold to you and your family circle. 
Paula C. Lidora Culion Leper Islands 5315 Culion, Palawan Philippines Sept. 28, 1992 

'Bad rap' from alurnni not justified 
Dear Editor: 
As a proud undergraduate of at Notre Dame I am sick and tired of the 'bad rap' the student body is receiving. 
In two Viewpoint letters (The Observer, Sept. 23) alumni have taken it upon themselves to bash the ND student body. 
In response to Costello, class of 1992 (F--Michigan)--lighten up a little bit. No one I know takes any T-shirt they wear se­riously. My roommate wore one such T-shirt (which he changed to "the shirt" before entering the stadium) in the midst of four friends of mine from the University of Michigan. 
Regardless of this "offensive" act, at the end of their stay they expressed their shock at how unbelievably well they had been treated by all the domers they met at ND tailgaters earlier that day. It appears that our student body is not "ignorant of common decency." 
Furthermore, Monhan, class of 1986), were you at the game? In the student section? I imagine not. Were you there you would have heard a jubilant outburst when the players decided to salute the student section, as is Notre Dame tradition. I, being in the very midst of 9,000 student students, heard not one boo. 
Maybe you and your fellow alumni should get off your high horse and realize that even though you have graduated, the Notre Dame community re­mains the spirited, proud and Christian place it was when you left. 
Chip Taunt Zahm Hall Sept. 23, 1992 

Comments on Clinton's visit were inaccurate 
Dear Editor: 
I write in response to Bill Keen's letter to the editor (The Observer, Sept. 28) regarding the visit of Presidential nominee Bill Clinton. Keen, the president of the University Right-to-Life Organization, made some very unfair and inaccurate statements about Clinton's visit. 
First, Keen spoke of an inci­dent in which a Clinton aid de­manded that he put away the Blessed Image of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Having the privi­lege of sitting two rows directly in front of Keen at Clinton's speech, I observed that he was only told to stop protesting after he had yelled several times, interrupting Clinton's speech, as well as shaken a rubber chicken in some obscure refer­ence to Clinton's draft record and thrown out postcards with graphic pictures of aborted fe­tuses. 
Also, by standing during the presentation, he rudely im­peded the view of those behind him that had waited in a line for possibly several hours to see Clinton talk. 
Keen wrote in his letter that "Bill Clinton cares nothing for today's mothers and their un­born children." I believe this statement to be blatantly inac­curate ... if this was true, why does Clinton support the Family Leave bill which allows women maternity leave from their jobs without penalty? 
Abortion is perhaps the most sensitive and difficult issue of our times. 
But we should not forget that it was not so long ago that George Bush was a pro-choice supporter. 
I believe that abortion will never be· decided until Amer­ica's ideas about condom distri­bution in schools and sex edu­cation are consistent. Conser­vatives have fought against mandatory sex education for years, but I believe this educa­tion is the only way to fight the spread of STD's and more im­portantly stop the number of unwanted pregnancies in the United States. 
There is no doubt in my mind that abortion is wrong, but outlawing abortion tomorrow is unfortunately not going to stop women from having abortions. We must educate people on sex and sex-related issues and, once society is aware of prevention methods, abortion will be stopped on lits own-the time will come for abortion to be outlawed. 
I am one of the many students on the campus that are both pro-life and pro-Clinton. The time has come where the country cannot stand another four years of Republican regime-economic collapse is far too close. All we can do is pray for a day when education becomes accessible to all so the crime of abortion ends. 
Kara Spak Pangborn Hall Sept. 28, 1992 
Accent 
page 12 Thur.sday, October 1 , 1992 
Shopping showdown 
'Shop 'Til You Drop, will feature two Notre Dame students 
By MELISSA COMER 
Accent Writer 
The football field is not the only place where some of America's greatest college rivalries are meeting this week. Tomorrow evening the Catholics will take on the Convicts in an entirely different game. 
Lifetime Television's game show "Shop 'Til You Drop," hosted by Pat Finn, is featuring "College Shopper's Bowl Week" all this week. Pitting traditional rivals such as Ohio State and University of Michigan and Harvard and University of Pennsylvania, the game show brings oldtime competition to a new field. 
The game show, scheduled to air tomorrow evening, features a rivalry which is close to the hearts of many Notre Dame fans. Notre Dame students Tom Lear, class of '92, and Jeannie Shin, a junior who is currently studying in London, meet the University of Miami's team to compete for prizes ranging from toasters to a trip to Paris. 
Challenged to "Shop 'Til You Drop," the contestants must employ consumer knowledge and an ability to do charadelike stunts. 
Last year, Lifetime Television came to South Bend to recruit students for the show. According to Tom Lear, an advertisement in The Observer offering a free trip to Hollywood brought one of the largest turnouts from any school to try out for the show. Lear and Shin were one of twenty five couples who auditioned for a spot on the program. 
When asked about his particular interest in trying out, Lear, nicknamed "TV Tom,"responded, ''I've always wanted to be on a game show. I figured why not try it?" 


At the auditions held in the Gipper Lounge of the local Holiday Inn, the students took a quiz testing their consumer knowledge. Given only the product name, auditioners were asked to determine what the product actually was. 
Next, the students were asked to perform a few stunts similar to those that they would have to do on the show. It seems their sheer enthusiasm won it for them. Lear explains, "Jeannie had to spell a word letter by letter using her body. She misspelled it to begin with. I think that's why we got on the show. 
Volunteer lair projects service alter college 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Notre Dame is one of few schools in the country to have a center dedicated specifically to aiding students who choose to integrate volunteer work into their lives. Approximately eight years ago, the Center began to extend their support to graduat­ing seniors in the form of a post-graduate volunteer fair. The effort has met with phe­nomenal success. 
Since its inception, the fair has become a magnet for 
recruiters  in  volunteer  
programs  throughout  the  
country.  

According to Mary Ann Roe­mer, director of senior pro­grams at the C.S.C., approxi­mately 150 to 200 seniors from Notre Dame decide to pursue volunteer work after graduation each year. 
"I have a feeling even more people do service work on their own," said Roemer. For those choosing to make use of con­tacts through the University, however, the Center can open hundreds of channels for na­tional and international service opportunities. 

Roemer, who organizes the post-graduate fair each fall and the volunteer send-off each May, believes that many stu­dents at the University tend to­ward service work after college because they have been ex­posed to it by their families, high schools, and clubs at Notre Dame. 
She considers the post­graduate fair a stepping stone for implementing service work into long-term plans: "It's a great way to begin to really integrate service into your life," she affirmed. 
College students throughout the country have continuously found something attractive in the prospect of service work, but recruiters consider Notre Dame a unique and unusual place to attract volunteers, Roemer concluded. 
"The primary purpose of the Center [for Social Concerns] is to help people integrate justice and faith in their lives," she said. Consequently, Notre Dame students often have experience in service projects from their undergraduate involvement with the Center. Recruiters, in turn, have found that students from the University have been very committed to their endeavors. 
All students, regardless of year and experience, are en­couraged to explore the possi­bilities at tonight's volunteer fair. "I really want them to feel welcome," said Roemer of the student body. 
Over 400 people have at­tended the fair annually, using the personal contact with re­cruiters to find out more spe­cific information about interest­ing programs. 
Domestic service programs at the post-graduate fair tradi­tionally last for one year, while programs outside the United States-which usually involve substantial language and cul­tural adjustments-often span over a period of 18 months or more. 
According to Roemer, the most popular programs consis­tently have been those oriented towards teaching. Students who feel attracted to these pro­grams but have not majored in education in their undergrad­uate years should not feel dis­couraged. 
"A few programs are really competitive," said Roemer, but most of the teaching programs 
Once chosen to appear on the show, Lear and Shin were flown to Hollywood for the taping in April. According to Lear, "They treated us like royalty. Anything we wanted, all we had to do was ask. If we weren't smiling, they asked us why we weren't. They needed us smiling for the camera." 
For the first part of the show, Shin shot balls into a bucket using Lear as a "backboard." With each ball worth $5, the two were challenged to match the price of a product with the number of balls in the bucket. 
That done, Lear and Shin were given twelve pictures of different characters and were asked to identify the characters as either real or fictional. Required to get nine of the twelve right, Lear claims,"There were some on there that we had never heard of before. We barely made it." 
Their consumer and general knowledge was tested further in a quiz round where they were asked entertainment and consumer product trivia questions. 
Beating the Miami team by one question, Lear and Shin headed onto the "Shopper's Challenge." The entire studio acted as a "mall" with eight different stores, each specializing in different products from electronics to sporting goods. 
Given six boxes, Lear and Shin opened each to discover the gift inside it. Based on their judgement of the value of a particular gift, they then had to "keep or exchange the six gifts with gifts in the eight stores so that the retail value was $1000 or more," explained Lear. 
Now, for those of you who will not be able to watch the show and are dying to know the outcome, Lear and Shin reached the $1000 goal by the fourth box and won the grand prize trip for two for a week in Paris. 
According to Lear, "We had won more money on the show than anyone else." Winning prizes such as luggage, artwork, a fishing rod, an espresso maker, a boom box, a weekend for two in Chicago, a week in Paris and more, the two reached a total of over $9000 in prizes. 
To see the Catholics once again victorious over the Convicts, tune in to Lifetime this Friday, October 2 at 5:30 p.m. 

do not require certification prior to application: the will and commitment of volunteers is often the crucial factor in re­cruiters' decision to accept post-grads. 
Holy Cross Associates, spon­sored by the Holy Cross priests of Notre Dame, draws the ma­jority of its volunteers from Notre Dame and other Holy Cross-affiliated universities in the country. 
The HCA programs consist of one-year positions at a variety of service-related organizations in cities across the United States. Volunteers for these programs live in a community and regard their year of service as a faith-strengthening expe­rience. 
Mary Sue Twohy, a volunteer for the Red Cloud Volunteer Program on the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, worked as a coach and teacher for high school students. 
In a recent article, Towhy ad­vised college seniors. "As you prepare your post-graduate plan, in the midst of a recession that is not hiring many people, consider the volunteer experi­ence. I have found it an adven­ture challenging me to grow, to look at life from a different per­spective and to open my heart in ways unimaginable. 
The fair will take place tonight from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the large classroom at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Thursday, October 1 , 1992 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
BIKE for$20  I NEED TWO BYU GA'S FOR TWO  I NEED 2STAN & BC GA'S  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@  
NOTICES  HELP!!! I am blind and need you to restore my vision!!!  call 273-1932  CHICAGO INNER-CITY YOUTH. JON 232-0550  CALL CHRIS #3830  H A V E  
LOST: One pair of tortoise shelled  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR  HAVE  
ATIENTION:  maroon glasses and case. Please  Rita Delivery on Campus  WANTED: 2 STAN. G.A.'s  STANFORD GA TIX. CALL JOE AT  I  H A V E  
For more information and  call Mick at X1856 or heal my  234-6524  277-2645 Brian  @·&  
assistance regarding the  affliction in 438 Stanford.  287-4561.  A  LOT  
investigation of financing, business  • 4 Stanford student tix 4 sale.  I NEED STANFORD GAS  
opportunities and work-at-home  Sorta cheap, but negotiable.  X4012  JOHN 271-2909  SELLING  PITT GAs  PITT GAs  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  LOST: LOST ON STEPHEN  2 STANFORD GA'S  
urges its readers to contact the  FIELDS AFTER FOOTI3ALL  NEED STANFORD GA'S WORSE  AND I NEED  Will sell CHEAP cause my  
Better Business Bureau of  PRACTICE. . .SMALL  Old Gibson Les Paul Custom  THAN LIFE!! CALL RON x2002  6 BCGA'S  friends cannot go on the  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  CAMOFLAGE LEATHER WALLET  electric guitar, 1969, black, $1000.  CALL SCOTI  X1157  BEST ROADTRIP EVER!!!!  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ WITH I.D., LICENSE, ECT.  277-9882  !! Need 2 Stanford GA's !!  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ PLEASE RETURN!! KJ1TH ANNE  Call Mike x1659  NEED STAN TIX 3374  Call me  Philip  287-9118  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  X4011  2 RT TIX SB -WASH DC FOR  
OCT BREAK $150@  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I NEED 4 STANFORD GAs or  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@  
TYPING 287-4082 •••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE ••••  WANTE~ ALASKA SUMMER  CALL 273-2752 TICKETS  ]  I NEED 2 BC GA'S!!! call Dena x2191 I need Stanford GA's  STUD. TIX. CALL MARY AT X3427. HELP HELP  PERSONALS  
Entertainment for the 90's!!!!  EMPLOYMENT-fisherins. Earn  call Kathleen 4092  HELP  HELP  HeyNiff  
Find out what you're missing at:  $5000+/month. Free transportation!  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  
COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics,  Room & Board! Over 8000  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  &·(%$#@!)  H AVE two STANFORD GAs  JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!!  
Toys & Games) 4609 Grape Rd.  openings. No experience  My sisters are NOT coming out and  GET THE T-SHIRT!II  
JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's  necessary. Male or Fer1ale. For  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  STANFORD  STU  I do have tickets for them.  
M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6  employment program call Student  TICKETS.272-6306  Please help them out.  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  
Employment Services at 1-206-545­ FOR  SALE  THANK YOU  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  4155 ext. A5584.  ROSCOE 287-9118  MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR  
STANFORD  STU  FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL  
BECOME AN EXCHANGE  Earn Free Spring Brealt Trips &  STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE  HAVET  STANFORD GA'S  COSIMO'S 277-1875.  
STUDENT  $2500 Selling Spring Break  call  Mike@ 282-1161  HAVE STANFORD GA'S  
Packages To Bahamas, Mexico,  CALL 283-1747  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif.  
AT&T Collegiate Investment  Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips &  &·(%$#@!)  I need 2 Stanford GA'S and 1 stud.  family can provide financial security,  
Challenge  Prices! 1-800-678-638Ei.  tik. Call Mike at xm 5.  excellent education and wonderful  
IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR  future for your baby. Please let us  
Manage your own $500,000  $$$$ FREE TRAVEL AND  NEED BC GA's.  BYU ...  Will trade one student ticket to BYU,  help you in this difficult time.  
portfolio and enjoy the excitement  RESUME EXPERIENCE!!  Call Kickham at 1 068  CALL KPO AT x1943  BC, and Penn St. plus cash for 2  Confidential and legal. Medical·  
of real Wall Street action.  Individuals and Student  BYU GAs. Call Pat at 271-2360.  expenses paid. Collect anytime.  
Organizations wanted to promote  I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S  IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR  (818) 246-1763  
ENTER NOW!  ENTER NOW!  SPRING BREAK, call the nation's  WILL PAY,  MIKE x2209  BYU...  NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S­ 
Availability is limited, so hurry.  leader. Inter-Campus Programs  CALL KPO AT x1943  KEVIN 271-8641  
CALL 1-800-545-1975 ext. 12  1-800-327-6013.  Have BC Stud. Tix  
Will sell or trade for Penn St. &  IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR  Need 6 tickets tor Stanford game  Attractive and physically well­ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Childcare and light housekeeping  Stanford Tix plus $  BYU ...  255-9648  endowed Notre Dame student with  
needed in our Granger home 12-16  Eric x1200  CALL KPO AT x1943  good personality needs a date for  
SENIORS! SENIORS!  hours per week (on Tuosday and  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  Oct. 10 SYR.  
SENIORS!The Class of 1993 is  Thursday afternoons) f·Jr toddler  $ RICH family needs 6 GAs $  Do you need BYU, BC or PSU  GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097  
going to Chicago to see MISS  and infant. Experience preferred,  $ for Stanford game $  Student tix? Call Kerry x3619  I will provide transportation,  
SAIGON on Oct. 8. Tix are only  references essential, tCip hourly  $Call Pat@ 1900 $  Will pay top dollar for 2 or 3 football  beverages, and hours of fun  
$25 for play and bus transpo. Tix  wage. Contact Karen at 271-9322.  ND Parents Need 2 Stanford G.A.  tickets for any of the following home  whoever answers this ad.  
on sale now at LaFortune Info Desk.  Will Pay$$$ Call Meg @ x2985.  games, Oct. 24, Nov. 7, Nov. 14.  
EARN $1 ,500 WEEKLV mailing our  Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE  Call collect-ask for Joe Murphy. 8  This is not a joke. I really need a  
circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE  need of Penn State GA's .....  • Football Tix 4 Sale@ 277-9074 •  A.M. to 4:30P.M. 614-382-1104,  date.  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  7:30 P.M. to 11 PM  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday  4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  Call Ann 284-5241  I need Stanford tix Bob x2002  614-389-4303 weekdays.  You can call me AI ...  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  Weekends 9 A.M. to 9P.M. 614-389­ at 283-2703.  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  WANTED: Child care worker for  2 Stan GA X3436  4303.  
in-home care of 2 five l'ear-olds,  TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC  
Typing 237-1949  Fridays, 9AM-2. 287-5'117.  GA'S (715-359-0222)  Need Stanford tix  $  $  $  $  $  5 VERY LARGE MEN will hurt me if  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  Todd x2292  NEED 1 STANFORD GA  I don't have GAs for them when  
I need a ride to R.I./Bo:;ton for fall  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call Kim X 1511  they come tor the BC game. Please  
$$$$$$$$$$$  break. Will share cost/driving.  PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston  $  $  $  $  $  help.  Jenn x4059.  
AmyX4012  College GAs or student tix. Call Jill  I NEED 1 STANFORD TICKET.  
COMPETE  @ x4758 or x4721.  NEED TICKETS FOR STANFORD  PAWN  BUY  SELL  TRADE  
WITH THE BEST  DEPERATELY NEED<! PENN  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PLEASE CALL MARY X2857.  PLEASE HELP, CALL 1573  
STATE GA'S. CALL CLARKE  OZARK TRADING POST  
5TH ANNUAL  X1748.  Need GA tix for BYU will buy or  NEED: 2 STANFORD GA's  1530 WESTERN AVE.  
AT&T INVESTMENT  trade for my GA PENN ST tix. Butch  Call  X1656 Jared  287-7550  
CHALLENGE  I BUY BYUs X2319  (209) 449-1800/439-6170.  Rosemary needs Stanford GAs!!!  
x4071  Need 4 PITI tix!!!  ***"*** Campus Musicians ............  
TAKE YOUR FICTIONAL $500,000  I have 2 BYU GA's!!!  Call Pete (1-800-322-0228)  There will be an informational  
BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND  I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE  I am looking to trade these for  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  meeting for all those interested in  
MAKE MILLIONS=  STUDENT EMPLOYED BY  2 Stan. GA's or 2 Penn St. GA's  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  performing on a campus CD on  
STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN  Joe x1395  AT 618-439-3338.  HELP! I need 2 Stanford GA's for  Wednesday, October 7th at 9:00 pm  
JUST LIKE WALL STREET  PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION  my Dad's boss! Name your price­ in the SUB office in Lafortune.  
AND NEED MANAGEHS FOR  Need Penn St. Tix  Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame  Call Kirsten at 271-0933  Questions?-Call Ryan at x1249 or  
REGISTRATION DEADLINE:  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT.  Tony x 1786  1-415-991-3416 call collect  239-7757  
OCTOBER 30, 1992  ELKHART, MICH. CITY, LAPORTE,  Help  
HURRY! DON'T DELAY  NILES, THREE  I need Stan. GA's  Need 1 Stant. G.A.  I need 1 Stanford GA  TUTORS NEEDED: TOWN AND  
RIVERS/SCHOOLCRt,FT. SALES  Bob 3398  pay top$$  call x3008  COUNTRY COMMUNITY CENTER  
1-800-545-1975 EXT. 12  EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT  call Scott x4243  NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY  
NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD.  Need GAs Any Home Games  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PROGRAM, GRADE 1-6,4:00-5:30  
$$$$$$$$$$$  AND WORK HARD. AVG.  Megan 3818  I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket  I NEED 2 PENN STATE GA's !!  MON. AND WED. OR TUES. AND  
EARNINGS 8,000. CAI_L 1-800­ for the Stanford game. If you can  Betsy 273-1792 (leave message)  THURS., STARTING OCT. 5,  
543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH.  I have a Stanford GA and need a  help, please call Suzy at x3722.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PROGRAM DIRECTOR (teacher)  
Reserved parking available for all  Penn State GA-want to trade? Call  CONNIE EMMONS, 258-9973 OR  
remaining home games. Short walk  Jahnelle at 283-2998  Need 2 Penn State GA's  288-3366  
to stadium. Call LOGAN (219)289­ RIDE WANTED  Please Call Lisa at 289-3790  NEED 2 STANFORD TICKETS  
4831.  10/9-10/11  Want to trade 2 BYU GA's for 2 BC  call Aaron at 273-0663  BARRY MAN I LOW FAN CLUB!  

 to U-Mich  GA's Call Susan at x1675  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  BARRY MAN I LOW FAN CLUB!  
LOST/FOUND  $$$ for driver #2331  Need 2 BYU GA's  1-800-922-BEAR.  TRADE: 2 STAN GAs for 2 BC GAs call277-8732 alter 8  We love him-don't you??? If interested, call Kim or Laurie at  

 Call Katy x2535  $NEED 2 STANFORD$  284-5057  
Lost!!  My parents gave me a  Need 4 GA's for Penn State. Call  $GAs x3593$  2 STANFORD GA'S  
beautiful gold watch for Christmas  283-2972 between 8-1 ~pm.  4 STANFORD GAs FOR SALE  TO BEST OFFER BY  
and I LOST IT!!! Most likely on North or Mod Quad, maybe in Math & Comp. building. If found,  FORRE~  CALL 271 1168 I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S AND  NEED Stanford Tix. Call Matt x1741  FRI. STACY@ 2854 LEAVE MESSAGE  LIKE TO GOLF? HATE TO CARRY CLUBS?? ... enter the LYONS HALL  
call Amy at x4530 or x4525.  ONE STUDENT TIC PLEASE  GOLF CLASSIC!  
BED 'N BREAKFAST HEGISTRY  HELP!! GREG X1103  Will trade 2 Stanford GA's for 2  Have a Lyonite carry your clubs as  
Found Dorm Room KEY on soccer  219-291-7153  I NEED 1 BC GA,  Penn State GA's-Call Doug @  you tee off in hopes of the $100  
ball key chain call3312 claim.  DAVE, x4506  x1148  grand prize!! Watch for sign-ups in  
2 room efficiency , utilities paid $7 a day, 288-0955  I NEED A STANFORD TICKET, student or GA. Please call Diane,  HAVE 2 STAN. GA'S.  the dining halls .. ...........,.....  
Please return  x4059.  WILL TRADE FOR 2 BC OR PSU.  
the grey TC TENNIS  FORSJl~  NEED 2 Stanford Tix  Have 2 BYU tix, need 2 BC tix. Will  CALL RYAN  x 1007  JENNY WENSKE IS 20 TODAY!!!!!!  
sweatshirt you  STD or GA. Good $$$  swap. Call (201) 487-9000.  ..FOR SALE: 2 STANFORD GA's  
found by the Stepan  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  Call Bart 271-0759  PETE x1567  Attention all HOT men with big  
volleyball courts  89 MERCEDES ......... $200  arms:  
last Thurs (9/24)  86 vw......................... $ 50  FOR SALE 2 Pitt GA's Best offer by  I need 2 STANFORD GAs  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Give her a call @x4935 and wish  
Erin #2331  87 MERCEDES .......... $100  10/5 call Ted 513-492-5190.  If you can help, call Chris at X2033  Need 1-4 GAs for Stanford  her a HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!  
65 MUSTANG ............. ~ 50  call x4782  (Or, Jenny, perhaps you wood  
DID YOU LOSE YOUR GLASSES?  Choose from thousano s starting  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  perter a mustachioed, Mustang­ 
pair of brown wire-rimmed glasses  $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour  driving, long-haired stud!)  - 
found Wed. night in front of the  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  NEED  YOUR  GAs  i need 2 penn state GA's  
Snite. Call Jim at  x3411 to claim  #IN11KJC.  call lisa  X 4845 leave a message  Need 2 Stan GAs  Love and Cringes,  
NEED  YOUR  GAs  x1212  The F 6-Pack and Nicole  
Sweatshirts For Sale!!!  Handmade  I need P.S.U. tix  
Lost: Large, red and white umbrella  Christmas & Irish Sweatshirts and  Sell me your GAs so that my family  Bob 3398  I STILL HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S  
with red maple leaves on it (like a  T-shirts for sale. For more  can come to the games. I will  LOOKING TO TRADE FOR BYU  NEED A RIDE???  
Canadian flag). If found,  information or to see samples call  match all equitable prices to allow  Yo! I NeeD 10 PeNN St GAs Badly  OR PSU. CALL NOW! JOE X1760  We're leaving 10/15 for Central  
please call Chris at X2033.  Kim 273-2967.  them to come see the Golden  Please CaLL: PAT x2071  Mass. (Worcester a.rea) and we're  
Dome.  Thank You  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $$ $ $ $ $ $  going through Albany  TIM x1045  
BICYCLE FOR SALE  Kyle 287-9118  Selling student tickets & booklets.  2 MARRIED STUDENT TIX  
Found:  Pair of round eyeglasses  Black Trek 800  18"  I have BC GA's too.  Luis 273-1528.  BOOKLETS  Thank You St. Jude for favors  
in a gray case.  Found in front of  Good Condition-2 yr!:. old.  NEED  YOUR  GAs  271-7276  recieved  
the Snite.  Call Jim  x3411  $200. Call 232-2944 & ask for  Stanford GAs For Sale  $$$$$$$$$$$  
Geoff.  or Trade 289-3273  $  see CLASS I page 17  
--------­---­ 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1992 
-
AL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eut Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Toronto  93  66  .585  
Milwaukee  90  67  .573  2  
Batt1more  86  72  544  61/2  
Cleveland  75  83  475  171/2  
Detron  75  84  .472  18  
NewYork  75  84  .472  18  
Boston  71  88  447  22  

West Division 
w L Pet. GB x-Oakland 94 63 599 Minnesota 87 70 .554 7 Chicago 85 72 .541 9 Texas 74 83 .471 20 Kan6as City 70 8 7 446 24 Calffornla 69 88 .439 25 Seanle 60 97 382 34 
x-cNnched diVISIOn title 
Tueedoy'e Games Cleveland 4, New York 3 Toronto 5, Boston 2 Batt1more 7, Detroft 2 Minnesota 5, ChiCago 4 Oakland 5, Texas 0 Kansas Cky 2, Calnorma 0 Milwaukee 7, Seanle 4 
Wedneedoy'e Gomes 
Lote Games Not Included New York~. Cleveland 2 Detro« 4, Batt1more 2 Boston 1, Toronto 0 . Chtcago at M•mesota, (n) Texas at Oakland. (n) Milwaukee at Seanle, (n) Kansas Cny at Calnorma. (n) 
Thuroday'e Games Ch1cago (Fernandez 8-11) at Mmnesota (T apan1 16-11), t:15p.m. Kansas Cny (Sampan 0-1) at Cal1iorma (Fmley 6-12), 4:05p.m. Batt1more (Mussma 17-5) at Cleveland (Cook 5­7), 7:35 p.m. Texas (Pavlik 4-4) at Oakland (Stewan 12-10). 
10:05 p m. Milwaukee (Wegman 12-14) at Seattle (Hanson 
8-17), 10:05 p m. Only Games Scheduled 

CAMPUS MINiffiRY... 
Staff members of campus ministry have been discussing ways in which we might be of assistance and service to gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame community. All of us who have been part of these conversations agree that there is a significant pastoral need which continues to exist on our campus. I believe there are three dimensions to our concern. 
First, it is important for us to express clearly the teaching of the Catholic Church in this area of sexual ethics. Secondly, we know harassment of gay and lesbian people has to be denounced as behavior which is inappropriate and contrary to the teaching of Christ. And finally, we want to find ways we can extend an open and sensitive welcome to gay and lesbian students. 
It is important for us to develop a pastoral policy that is compatible with the teaching of the Catholic Church. The position of the Church is straightforward. All men and women are called to live chaste lives, whether we are heterosexual or homosexual, and celibacy is required of all who are not married. By the way we live out our commitments, we can help one another if our lives are strong and consistent statements of what we believe. 
Most people commit themselves to marriage and family life. A growing number of Christians live their lives as single people. Still others commit themselves to service of God's people through a life of permanent and consecrated celibacy in the priesthood and religious life. 
For all of us, regardless of our state of life, genital activity can take place only in the context of marriage, under circumstances which respect the rights and responsibilities of both partners whose love for each other is open to the possibility of creating new life. 
Each of us is a unique, extraordinary and distinctive individual, called to life by a loving God, heirs of the reign proclaimed by Jesus Christ, and brothers and sisters on a common journey back to the God who created us in love. In the words of Paul, we are in Christ, neither slave nor free, neither gentile nor Jew, but one in the love of Christ. 
There are a lot of reasons why people engage in harassment, but it is usually directed at someone who is different from us. From a faith perspective, harassment of gays and lesbians, or anyone else, whether intentional or thoughtless, whether through cruel jokes or in idle conversation, is simply unacceptable. Negative judgments we pass on others are almost always the result of inexcusable ignorance or inadmissible intolerance. The pain we cause is obviously harmful to the other person, whether that is our intention or not. Overcoming this prejudice is not an easy step to take, but it is an essential one if we are to call ourselves Christian. 
Finally, a word to the gay and lesbian members of our campus community, and to those who are uncertain about their sexual orientation. Campus ministry wants to be a place where you can find assistance and 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League 

CLEVELAND INDIANS-Named Jay Robenson scouting director for west coast operations and Shawn Pender scouting director lor east coast op­erauons NatiOnal League 
NL-Announced that Bob Scanlan. Chtcago Cubs p1tcher. withdrew h1s appeal of a four-game suspenston. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Extended thel< workmg agreement with Spokane of the Northwest League for two years. Florida State League 
FORT LAUDERDALE YANKEES-Announced the res1gnat1on of Mtke Stanfteld. director of mar­ketmg. South Atlantic League 
COLUMBUS REDSTIXX-Named Carol Dean assistant general manager. Patrick Bellamy direc­tor of commumty relations. John Atkinson director of med1a relations, and Scott Martin administrative aSSIStant BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
DENVER NUGGETS-Stgned Bryant Sltlh. guard. HOUSTON ROCKETS-Stgned Matt Bullard. forward 
INTERHALLCROSSCOUNTRY 
MEN  WOMEN  
1.Cavanaugh 2. Flanner 3.Kennan 4. Grace  20 9 8 5  1. B. P. 2. Lewis 3. Lyons  16  16 3  

NEW JERSEY NETS-Announced they Wtll not match Detroit's $9 4-mtllton offer to Terry M1lls. for­ward FOOTBALL National Football League 
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Watved James Brooks, runmng back. and Jeff FranciS, quarter­back Activated Kev1n Mack. runmng back. from Injured reserve 
DENVER BRONCOS-Activated Vance John­son, w1de rece1ver, from InJured reserve. Re s1gned Frank Robinson. cornerback Wa1ved Robert Per­ryman, fullback, and R1cky Nattlel. w1de rece1ver 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Placed James Cam­pen, center, on tnjured reserve S1gned Tom Neville, center-guard 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Stgned Corey Wtdmer, 
lmebacker, to the practice squad Released 
Michael Wrtght, cornerback, from the pract1ce 
squad 
Arena Football League 

ALBANY FIREBIRDS-Named Rtck Buffington coach and M1ke Hohensee and Mtke Da1ley assts­
tant coaches 
HOCKEY 

National Hockey League 
CHICAGO BLACKHAWKS-Stgned Rob Brown 
and Jocelyn Lemieux, lorwards 
5. Morrissey 2 
. .... CoNSIDERATIONS 
understanding. We should be and want to be a place where students can find a friendly and compassionate welcome and assistancebased on the respect each of us can claim because of our inestimable worth in God's eyes. We will assure you of a conversation that is confidential, personal, and nonjudgemental. Some in our community have had deep self-understanding for years; others are dealing with many questions and uncertainties about their orientation. We are ready to try to help you with whatever 
feelings you may be experiencing, including fears of rejection or even of being harmed by others, a sense of loneliness or guilt, or questions about your relationship to God. 
We want to help you discover ways in which you can live out the Christian commitment to which each of us is called. We want to help you to discover in your own life that love of Jesus Christ, which has enabled countless men and women of every condition and situation throughout history to find reassurance and consolation and hope. 
Ifdesirable and appropriate, we will bring you into contact with other people struggling with the same questions and searching for the same sense of peace and self acceptance. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Director, Campus Ministry 
Sat. Oct. 3  5:00p.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky,C.S.C.  
Sun. Oct. 4  8:00a.m.  Rev. George Wiskerchen,C.S.C.  
10:00 a;m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky,C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Richard Warner,C.S.C.  

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS SUNDAY 
}Sl: Reading :m Reading Gospel 
HABAKKUK 1: 2-3; 2: 2-4 2 TIMOTHY 1: 6-8, 13-14 LUKE 17: 5-10 
• .,.,.,.-....,....61....tiiii..JII ...,,.._...,.,.......--.... ...... -.. -...... ~ "" ...... -.. -­
--------------------------------------------------~------------------~--~------~ 
Thursday, October 1, 1992 
Maddux gets 20tl'1l victory 
CHICAGO (AP) -Greg Mad­dux no longer has to wonder what it would feel like to be a 20-game winner. 
Maddux, who had come close twice before, finally did it Wednesday by scattering seven hits to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 6-0 victory over the Pitts­burgh Pirates. 
"That question was getting old, and now I don't have to think about it anymore," Mad­dux said. "It was a good day. We needed the win badly. Wilkie (Rick Wilkins) called a good game. The defense was super and we scored some runs. Now, all I'm going to do is go out and celebrate." 
Maddux turned down a $27.5 million, five-year offer from the Cubs at the All-Star break and is eligible for free agency fol­lowing the season. 
"I haven't made up my mind on free agency," he said. ''I'm not closing any doors by any means." 
Chicago stopped a season­worst, eight-game losing streak and also ended a six-game winning streak by the Pirates, who clinched their third straight NL East title on Sunday. 
Maddux (20-11) pitched his fourth shutout and ninth com­plete game, joining Atlanta's Tom Glavine as the only 20­game winners in the NL. Mad­dux, who struck out nine and walked two, became a 20-game winner for the first time. He won 19 games in 1989 and 18 in 1988. 
Ryne Sandberg had four sin­gles and scored three runs for the Cubs. Handy Tomlin (14-9) gave up five runs and seven hits in five-plus innings. 
"Nobody wants to go out and get beat," Pirates manager Jim Leyland said, "but you have to admire the way he did it. That was vintage Maddux. He was fantastic. He makes the plays he has to make." 
Mark Grace's RBI single put the Cubs ahead in the first, and Chicago cb ased Tomlin with four runs in the sixth. Grace doubled in a run, Luis Salazar hit a two-run triple and Rick Wilkins singled in a run off Bob Walk. 
Andre Dawson's RBI ground­out increased the lead to six runs in the seventh. 
Pittsburgh loaded the bases in the third, but Maddux retired Mike La Valliere on a flyout to end the inning. Maddux struck out Jay Bell .md Andy Van Slyke with two outs in the fifth, and struck out Bell with runners on second and third in the seventh. 
Van Slyke bad two hits, raising his total to 197 and his batting average to .~127 in the four-way race for the NL title. The Pirates are off Thursday. 

The Observer 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) Bart Conley was too good to keep on Purdue's bench. 
"When the season began, I figured since I only weighed about 210 they'd probably be redshirting me," said the 6­foot-4 freshman linebacker from Cincinnati. 
Not a chance. 
His performance in preseason drills was impressive, and last week he made his first colle­giate start against Notre Dame. 
"Bart Conley is going to be a good one. He looks like one of the freshmen who can even­tually turn our program around," said coach Jim Col­letto. 
Conley, whose father, John, played on Purdue's 1967 Rose Bowl team, showed why he should become a fixture in the Boilermakers' lineup for the rest of his career. He led the team with 16 tackles, including nine solos and two for losses. 
The performance was espe­cially impressive for a freshman making his first start because it came at Notre Dame Stadium against one of the nation's top teams, Colletto said. 

NBC, which telecast the game, selected Conley as the Purdue player of the game. 
"He's going to get a lot bigger. He's just got a great tem­perament for playing. He's kind of a wise-guy type of guy; that's what you like in a linebacker," Colletto said. "He's a smart guy. He does a good job at school. He hustles, he plays reckless. He's the kind of guy that we like to have." 
Conley, who found it a little unsettling to make his first start at Notre Dame, said his ability to get to the ball is his main asset. 
"That was unreal. I can't re­ally explain the feeling I had there. Having grown up in Cincinnati, I know all about the Irish program," he said. "I was nervous but once the game began, that was all behind me." 
Like his teammates, Conley has felt peaks and valleys as Purdue opened with a 41-14 
$5 tB1\fPI09{S 'Baffoons, Cards, 
(jifts anaYln tiques 
(jreat SY1\!!forma{ (jifts 
5-fours: {219) 271-2001 Mon-Sat 10-9 Sunday 10-6 
1627 'Edison '}{pad • Soutfi 13end, !91{. 46637 Ylcross tlie street from Linebac/qr­adjacent to Jamison Inn 


•$5.00 coupon-witli $15.00 minimum purcliase • 
r;Britton 1(nowfes-Owner 
page 15 
upset of then-nationally ranked California before being upset 33-29 by Toledo of the Mid­American Conference and then being overpowered by Notre Dame 48-0. 
"This program is definitely on the upswing," said Conley, who hopes to help the Boilermakers post their first winning season since 1984 this year. "The sea­son is starting over again with the Big Ten season. We've got to open with a victory and go from there. We all feel we can be a part of restoring success in football here." 
It wasn't hard to persuade Conley to join the Boilermakers, he said. 
"Since my father played here on the Rose Bowl team, I've kind of been a Purdue fan my whole life. There weren't even any other schools I seriously considered," Conley said. "My dad's been an active fan. He doesn't miss a game. Before I came here, he'd watch games on television and he'd often bring me to the games.... It's always been my dream to come to Purdue. I got the opportunity to come here and now my dream is to help it become a winner again." 
He has no regrets about not being redshirted. 
"I definitely wanted to play this year," he said. "A lot of people told me that since I was so skinny this year that I'd be better off if I was redshirted and had a chance to grow." 
. '·, ' . 1.' 
GREEJ<S & CLUBS 
' -t ~'!.. •• • 
RAISE A COOL 
11000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PWS $1000 FOR TilE 

MEMBER WHO CAlLS! No obligatiOIL No cost. You allo get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO jull fur c:allin& 1~931-0!lS, Ext. 65 
APPETIZERCO 
Try our Deep Fr,•d Alligator.Calaman A1ngs ::tr,,.~p Cockta•l. Mozzarella Slicks & More! 
"Known for the Best Food in Town an{! All Around" 
RESERVATIONS AND l'IAJOR CREDIT CARDS 
COCKED 
AND 
LOADED 

For Mature Audiences 
ANDREW DICE ICLAY 
IN CONCERT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6th :8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records, Orbit Records, and \/Vorld Records 
CHARGEBYPHONE235~190 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions and Contemporary Presentations 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1992 

Lankford leads Cards sweep 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Ray Lank­ford singled in the winning run with one out in the 11th innings as St. Louis beat Montreal 3-2 to complete a three-game sweep. 
It was the second straight ex­tra-inning game for the Cardi­nals and their 26th of the sea­son, one short of the league record shared by the 1943 Boston Braves and the 196 7 Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Stan Royer led off the 11th with a single off Jeff Fassero (8­
7) and pinch-runner Bernard Gilkey advanced on a sacrifice. Ozzie Smith was intentionally walked before Lankford's hit scored Gilkey without a play. 
Bryn Smith (4-2) worked two scoreless innings for the victory. 
Astros 5, Padres 4 
HOUSTON -Eric Anthony hit a pair of two-run homers as Houston beat San Diego in its final at-bat for the second consecutive game. 
Anthony, who leads the Astros with 19 homers, cut San Diego's lead to 4-2 with a homer in the fourth and added the game­winner in the eighth. 
The Astros have a five-game winning streak. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club is holding an intermural horse show October 11 for all members. The registration deadline for new members is October 2. If you want more details call Megan 283-2784 or Julie at 283-4042. 
Irish Youth Hockey League 
is looking for ND students to 
~GIAIVT 
~ The Precisely Kight Choia>! 
In the city... On the road... Or in the mountains... 

Jim'my Jones (9-6) got the final out in eighth and Doug Jones worked the ninth for his 35th save. Jeremy Hernandez (1-4) took the loss, allowing two runs on two hits in the eighth. 
Giants 1, Braves 0 
ATLANTA -Jeff Brantley blanked Atlanta over 5 1-3 in­nings to run his scoreless streak to 20 1-3 innings for San Francisco. 
The Giants snapped a two­game losing streak and ended Atlanta's three-game winning streak, one night after the Braves clinched the NL West ti­tle. 
Brantley (7 -7), making only his fourth start after 52 relief appearances. allowed three hits, walked two and struck out eight. Rod Beck pitched the fi­nal two innings for his 16th save. 
Braves starter Tom Glavine (20-8), who has been bothered by sore ribs for more than two months, has lost five of his last six decisions. He allowed five hits, walked one and struck out four in seven innings. 
San Francisco scored in the first inning on Will Clark's sac­rifice fly. 
coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
Officials are needed for RecSports co-ree basketball. There will be a meeting on October 8 at 5:30 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 

Giant® takes your cycling seriously. Giant bicycles are designed. engineered an<i crafted to be your precisely rigt1t choice. They're easy to ride. c<:~sy to enje>y and easy to afford...Let us help you choose the one that fits your cycling needs. 
ONE OF MICHIANA"S LARGEST BICYCLE DEALERS... 
EJ 1R I G H y• S

CYCLING & FITNESS 2720 LINCOLN\VAY \NEST MISHA\VAK1\, INDIANA 46544 Phone: 255-8988 1 1 112 blocks cast of Ironwood.) 
r----------,r----------,
Deal # 1 I I Deal #2 I 
: FREbEt!tl 1
I I 8-iB"-iB"i"!i"B"i"!~· 
1water o e 1 1 ~=~=~=-=-=-=-=-=-=· 1 : wi~~r~l!a!lo I I 20% off : : : any one tire & tube 1 
lone coupon per visit. Not valid I lone coupon per visit. Not valid I twith other promotions. I lwith other promotions. I 
LE!J>_!;~ !_O}J~~·-__ .J ~!P_!!:~ 1,?~ ~9!. ___.J 
Reds 3, Dodgers 1 
CINCINNATI -Tim Belcher pitched seven strong innings for his fourth straight victory and Willie Greene drove in runs with a double and a single as the Cincinnati beat Los Angeles. 
Belcher (15-14) matched his career high in victories by beating his former teammates for the second time in four starts this season. He allowed just five singles and struck out seven in seven innings. 
Rob Dibble pitched the ninth for his 25th save. 
Pedro Martinez (0-1), the younger brother of Dodgers starter Ramon Martinez. al­lowed four hits and with seven strikeouts in six innings. · 
Mets 6, Phillies 2 
NEW YORK -Chico Walker drove in three runs with a pair of singles and five Philadelphia errors led to three unearned runs as New York snapped a seven-game losing streak. 
Sid Fernandez (14-11), pitch­ing his fifth complete game of the season, scattered eight hits, striking out five and walking one. 
RecSports is taking entries 
for campus badminton, interhall volleyball and co-ree basketball. Due October 7. 

Viola's no-hit bid squelched 
TORONTO (APJ ...,.. Frank Yankees 4, Indians 2 Viola took a no-hitter into the CLEVELAND -Melido Perez ninth inning before allowing a allowed three hits in eight single to Devon White, and the innings and Danny Tartabull Boston Red Sox slowed the homered as New York stopped Toronto Blue Jays' pennant a three-game losing streak. drive with a 1-0 victory Cleveland was trying for its Wednesday night. first three-game sweep of the 
Viola {13-12) was pitching by Yankees since April 1989. 
his own request with only Perez (13-16) matched his ca­three days' rest against David reer high in victories, set in Cone and the division-leading 1990, by holding the Indians Blue Jays, who began the night hitless and scoreless in all but with a 2 112-game lead over the fourth inning. He walked Milwaukee in the AL East. three and struck out six. Steve 
The Brewers, who had five Farr pitched the ninth for his games left, played later at 29th save. Seattle, and Toronto's magic Rookie Dave Mlicki (0-2)~ number for its second straight making his fourth career start, division title remained at three)t yielded three runs and eight 
Viola.tstruck out five and hits in six innings. 
walked. three in his sixth com­plete game of the season. John White Sox 4, Twins 3 Valentin hit anopposite-field MINNEAPOLIS-Robin Yen-homer ln ttte r6urth off Con~ tura continued his domination (4-3). of Minnesota with a tie-break-
Tigers 4, Orioles 2 "· tng home run' to lead off the 
DET~()IT ~Detroit g3.~ six eighth inning. Ventur~ also doubles and the Tigers tiitned doubled and scored in the sixth four .l.~outtl.e.iibplay~\.Dan to raise his average to .395 Gladden, who was 3.for4, had with three homers against the twfJ ofthe doubles and drove hx. 1Wins.this year.+ a run in the Tigers' fmal home·' · Mike Dunne (2-0) allowed the game this season; Jiil'I:J,()i'll:ii!ii>i.!: ;;;:;iF game-tyiJ1g run in his only in-
John Doherty (7~4} gave U)l ning but gained the victory, two n.ms on nine hits in,six ln~·!itand Roherto Hernandez nings..f\1ark L.~Jter followed pitched t\Voinnh1gs for his with two perfect irinh1gs and 12th save·;;~'"r< w, ' ..).}l Mike J:(~~n~mlill ~rked .· .,.. ~cott Erickson. (13-1~) ninth for his 24tti sav . ........·.··. t allow(ld 12 htts. high for the 
Bob Mila,.clq, (6~~) was ~ggl;lp seasoJ) for a Minnesota pitcher, for four runs'on seven hits, ··· ·.,. struck out six and walked one, 
Every Thursday Night 9:00pm-midnight basement lounge LaFortune Student Center 
OPEN MICROPHONE BEGINS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1 
all are welcome -active participation encouraged 


6MILERUN  !OJ((J)!H!!Ell?. l1?.1JJN f)!!J 2  
3MILERUN  OCTOBER 10, 1992 10:00am  
PANCAKE BREAKFAST TO FOLLOW  

BEGINS AND ENDS AT THE STEPAN CENTER 
T-SIDRTS TO ALL FINISHERS STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS $5.00 IN ADVANCE, $6.00 RACE DAY Register in advance at RECSPORTS IN THE JACC 

The Observer page 17 
..
Cowboys form plan of attack 

Walker gives the Eagles a consistent running game. Yet, Randall Cunningham is still the focal point. In fact, Herschel helps their offensive line because the defense can't tee off on Randall expecting him to throw." 
Johnson, naturally, wouldn't disclose the Cowboys defensive scheme but it will be an intri­cate one because the team has had two weeks to figure out a defensive chess game to stop Cunningham. 
"His scrambling can really get to a defense," Johnson said. "You have him stopped then he gets away." 
Asked if he would try the "spy" route Johnson said "we've got to keep changing our defense up. We can't use any one thing and be totally ef­fective against a great player like Cunningham. We'll try a bunch of different looks to keep him off balance." 
Cunningham has completed 1,394 yards worth of passes for 11 touchdowns against the Cowboys. 
The Dallas players are wor­ried about Cunningham's im­provisations. 
"He can mess up a lot of really good game plans and preparations," said defensive back Issiac Holt. "I've seen him do it to us. " 
"He's the quickest thing I've ever seen," said Dallas defen­sive tackle Russell Maryland. "He's like tackling quicksilver." 
Johnson also said it was an unhappy day for him when Walker went to Philadelphia as a free agent. 
"I was not a happy coach when he signed with the Ea­gles," Johnson said. "I had hoped he would go to the AFC. He helps their football team. Philadelphia was already a top 
Thanks for taking care of me and Thanks for protecting me !'rom farmer bob! 
Class 
·Sister 

p.s. I will remove 1rom the fetal position only if you change your 
continued from page 13 
"WORK IT BABY!" answering machine. Brother· Sorry for being a JERKIE sat. night. Rick-my brother--LAME party. You've let down your sister. 
The Department of Music Presents 

~oston Museun1, tTrio 
DANIEL STEPNER LAURA JEPPESEN JOHN GIBBONS BAROQUE VIOLIN VIOLA DA GAMBA HARPSICHORD 
WORKS BY SCARLATI"I, TAR1"/NI, RAMEAU, AND BACH 
Sunday ~ 
October 4, 1992 
}, 2:00p.m. l 

Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art $5 General Admission, $2 Students and Sen;:or Citizens 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a. delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 

We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will nfund your money ifyou are not completely sati~fied. 
Great for Tailgate and After ..Game Parties! 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & Ironwood/277-7744 
US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1~!88 
Love, the random head. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am Eastern Time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment ant training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
ATIENTION ALL STUDENTS SHOWCASE OF CAREERS TODAYATSMC LEMANS LOBBY 3:00-5:30. ALL ARE WELCOME. 
Alumni Beware: Today is the return of ENERGYMANI Welcome back to the dorm jerky!!! -Yep, I'm STILL the King! Ha! Ha! Ha!-­D..I..Luv..U!!! 
-DREW-Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 

Fay. 
HOW GOOD IS YOUR COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICE? A national magazine is investigating the quality of college health clinics, and would like to hear female students' stories. All names will be kept confidentiaL Please send a short account of your experience along with your phone number to: Box 125, 1275 First Ave. New York, New York 10021. 
SENIORS: DON'T MISS OUT!! Deadline 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT PRESENTS 
PROFESSOR MICHAEL J. PERRY HOWARD J. TRIENENS CHAIR IN LAW NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 
ON 

"DOES RELIGIOUS MORALITY PLAY AN ESSENTIAL ROLE IN THE ARGUMENT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS?" 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 5 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
Here's your chance to get a portable picture for the ages. Show up at the LaFortune Lobby on Saturday of Parent's Weekend between 8 a.m. and Noon and for only $2, you can get a photo button ofyou and your parents. It's fun, fast, and cheap! How many other things can you say about that here at Notre Dame? 
(Sponsored by Student Activities) 
for Senior Rap·Up is this Friday. Sign up now at the esc. 
DROP DEAD, NIFF! 
WE FOUND HER! JILL'S NOW AT "WE CARE HAIR". CALL HER FOR A CUT 
AT 271-7674. 
Nova-l'm 2 up on you. Even up the score. Your bro, Casa 
ARE YOU DRIVING TO OR THROUGH BUFFALO FOR OCT. BREAK??? I NEED A RIDE HOME! CALL X1337. THANKS! 
Moomoomoomoomoomoomoomoomoomoo moomoomoomoomoomoomoomoomoomoo moo-Hooray Lise!l It's a 21-moo salute! And your surprise belated birthday present is ... a fantasy date with Robin Yount (look out Rick) III Love, Eric, Joanna, and most of the Brewers 
Bo vs. Ditka, but Ditka has TWO bad hips ..... DITKA! 
Desparate female needs a ride home to the Twin Cities area for October Break. Will pay gas/tolls. ask for Leah at 284-4308. 
We are never going to get to go home We are never going to get to go home We are never going to get to go home We are never going to get to go home We are never going to get to go home We are never going to get to go home 
I need a STANFORD STUDENT TICKETI! II! 
Please call Whitney at x2666 
My little sister is coming for the game and she LOVES Notre Dame and LIVES for ND footbalL 
Rolando from Orlando did production production 

A monthly reading group 
Discussing Gay and Lesbian Literature 
(Available from the Hesburgh Library) 
.... 
Meeting Thursday, October 8 7:00p.m. 
P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556



..----~-----------~-------~-­
The Observer Thursday, October 1, 1992 

" 
-:-.-:-::-·-:.:. :·· ···. 
PHILADELPHIA•...•(APJ ~~;~r·· Patfli~ .• going ~~.~¢. th:·.tig~~~n4r.I Beach hopes people remember loss for us. Jlut it's a goo he'$ a journ~)tman tigbJ end, ;Jhing fQr metJ'm happy to be and not a three-time Pro Bowl ·here tytd happy to be playing 
player. iN . , tight e.n,.~~.. ""''' Beach, 32. thl¥> He said present Philadelphia ~~gles replace; situation. "I \Vent fro:tn the out­ment for Keitll'Jackson~ who house to the penthouse. I took advantage of brief fre~ ...... thought I died and ~.~nt to agency to sign a reported four-heaven. · +i> year, $6 million contractMon-~:I~dianapolis w~s a gre~t day with the Miami Dolphins. pla<ie and I loved playing for 'Til tell you right 11ow.;·.. that team, but I.'.~ with. a Beach said Wednesday; ''I'm" Super Bowl contenHer. This is 
not Keith Jackson. 
•Tm not a tight end Uh·• Keith Jackson. I'm not near tbe receiver that he is. ldon't run the type. o!. ro11,~es that. h~. runs. Bttt I dQ lt)t of things well. I can d<va good job. The comparison stops right now a.S · 
far as J'm concerned." ········· 
Beach signed.• u 'titn th.~ ll'.>al. as a free agent, Sept. being dropped by t 
York .Jets in the ··• ···u...u. 
rnr•ese,as<Jrn ctrt; He played. nine years with the ln.t;)lanapolis Colts, starting 97, ·· 
games. catching 155 passes 
1.463 ;n;;;Yar~rs z;.a~~;J.•·•···•·.··········•··Jtouchdo\Vns: · yards per catch. 
Beach has been tight el'\9,•. ~~v·~l!> .r~.·~t~P>"' Byars, as they got · 
start. ~pd ~ill Monday ~ght when the ·nu..rhm~c 
The 

a great football team, a great 
bunch 6f players.,.. great}staft, 
As far as f'm concerned I'm 
justeesta,ttd1Ht · 1';iiiK... 
Beach described himself as a 
·• 

5;}~&li!fb$il~6JQpl 
IHica1ppy Bnir~ cdlca1y9 .. Anllnllce Mca11rnce~ 
Love, Carrie, Nikki, Stef, Aimee, & Colleen 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS 
• 

CATCH 'EM Friday 
Nationally ranked Women's Soccer vs Wisconsin _,,~ Alumni Field 5:00pm 
~ . ~/ 
. 
Sunday , . 
Nationally ranked Women's Soccer vs #2 Stanford Alumni Field 12:30 pm · 
Free food and drink compliments ofthe Alumni .Associmion and Coca-Cola 
Men's Soccer vs Dayton Alumni Field 3:00pm 
sponsored by Teacher's Credit Union 
Tepper has waited far too long 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -Illi­nois coach Lou Tepper has been looking forward to coaching a big conference game since 1978. He gets his chance Saturday when the Illini open the Big Ten season at Min­nesota. 
"When I was at Virginia Tech (1978-83) we longed to have a conference where every game was important," Tepper said at his Tuesday media lunch. 
'That's the way everybody feels about it. Minnesota's at 0­3, but they can finish 8-3 and go to the Rose Bowl just like ev­erybody else. It's a new start." 
Illinois finished 2-1 in the non­conference schedule, beating Northern Illinois and Missouri and stumbling through a 31-13 loss at Houston on Sept. 19. 
Tepper said the two weeks ofT since then will allow a young defense to continue to learn and the offense to rest a few banged-up players. 
"I've always appreciated the time off before Big Ten play," Tepper said. "This open week is a good demarcation between 
Football 
continued from page 20 

where we've been and where we're going." So far, the Illinois defense is ahead of expectations. 
Led by sophomore linebacker Dana Howard and freshman end Simeon Rice, Illinois is third in the conference in total defense, allowing 317.7 yards per game. Illinois is allowing a league-low 14 first downs per game. 
Howard, suspended from the Houston game for his presence at a campus fight, will return to action against Minnesota. 
Rice, a 6-foot-5, 225-pound pass rush specialist, has four sacks and five tackles for loss, tying him for second in the Big Ten in both categories. 
He and his teammates will do their best Saturday to contain Minnesota quarterback Mar­que! Fleetwood, who leads the nation in total offense with 
349.0 yards per game. 
"This is the most complete quarterback we have faced so far,'' Tepper said. "His legs can win a game, his arm can win a game. He's truly a remarkable 
fensive efforts. 

Badin 12, Pangborn 7 
Pangborn canw together for a 
player." 

The Illinois offense and quar­terback Jason Verduzco, who has been playing with a sore shoulder, are out to regain con­sistency after a subpar showing against Houston. Verduzco is the fourth-rated passer in the Big Ten. 
The Illini have hurt them­selves with penalties. On their 20 offensive drives without a penalty they have scored seven touchdowns and two field goals. In their 17 drives with a penalty or turnover they have just two touchdowns. 
"The pieces are there for us to be a good offense," Tepper said. "We need our receivers to be more productive. I guess that's where we are right now." 
Tight end Ken Dilger, pro­jected as a starter in non-con­ference play, was scheduled to return from a knee injury this week. But he injured his other knee Saturday, had surgery on Monday and is expected to miss four more weeks. 
touchdown by Tara Spindaeco, but Badin provP.d too much, outlasting tlu~ young Pangborn team. 
Knott 12, Lewis 0 
Knott turned in a very strong team effort in order to beat the Lewis Chickens last Sunday at Cartier Field. Both senior Karen Weigert and freshman Carly Wezzi turned in long touchdown runs from passes thrown by sophomore quarter­back Karen Wallace. But the Knott defense also played well, shutting out the Chickens' of-
FLOWERS & MORE BY JACKIE 674..9903 
Campus Delivery Available 
For Parents Weekend: One Dozen Carnations in a Box, $7.95 
I'VIISSIONC:RS. HAIJITAT FCJR. HUM19NI/Y. CI-II4NNt:iL 
• 
Thinking about 
.
service next year? 
TO THE FAIR" 
.."J 

Thursday, October 1 7-10 p.m. 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Hurry on Over! 
Over forty programs will be represented at the esc to provide you with information. 



•• · ·., i" , I. 

•
Today 

Thursday, October 1 , 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 


ACROSS 26 Carson's 55 Computm "doctor" experts
1 Physiognomy 31 Chemical suffix 58 Rogue5 Duplicate event 32 Juridic 60 Soul sin~;1er91nvest 34 "Dut;,~ spiro, Redding13 Actor Thicke 61 Cod's cousin 
14 Robe for 35Hub 62 Like many Calpurnia 37 Role for Sharon pitchers15 "Dove sono" is Gless 
one 63 Writer Ephron 39 Blue dye 
64 End of a 40 Like argon Steinbeck title 16 Scourge of 

serge 42 Hellkite
nlntone 65 The vat man 44 Great inventor's 66 Jane or Zane
19lntelligentsia 
monogram

21 First bidder in 45 Using the bridge games intellect DOWN
22"Dear-," 
47 Card game 

1971 Danish 1 Summer 49 Gig implement 
film replacement 23 "-Clown," 50 Brazilian 2 Others, to Ovid 1948 song seaport 
3 Type of bridge 24 German name 51 "-as I Live," 
4 Journalizes for a Czech city 1934 song 

5 Union unit 6 Wife of Burt R. 7 Ht. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Race horse that hasn't won 9 Festive 10Asian sea 
~~+===-! 11 Communion, e.g. 12 "Bugs" tl1e .._:..j..:::....,.j.:.:-1.::,:.. ·~.:..:...j..:~+=-1 journalist 
~~~~~~,.:.+::8_..7+.:~~ 14 PhotoeiEiCtric device 18 Plays tho first card 20Titubate •==+=~+=-B-=+::-1 23 Misrepre•sent 
~~~ 24 Black Fr1day event: Sept. 19, 1873 
25 Fatuous 26 Mountain mint 27--Locka, 
city in Fla. 28 Contrivance bringing fresh 
air 29 Of a Great Lake 30 Lumberjacks' 
sport 33 Make good 36 Prior, to Prior 38 Like pet 
canaries 
BILL WATTERSON 

IQ;8., ({}J 

-
41 Steakhouse 52 Warmwater fish order 53 Portrayer of 43 Boy meets girl Bumstead 46 Alger's "-54 Patulous Dick" 
55 Bell the cat 
48 Attire for Lamour 56 Flagso More pleasant 
57"Doas­
51 He wrote "Off the Court" 59 Manta 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
COMING ATTRACTIONS: 
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
Acoustic Cafe The Russel Simmons 
Father of the Bride Featuring Victoria's Real Secret Def Comedy Jam 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 9:00p.m.-12:00 a.m. 
-As seen on HBO -Cushing Auditorium LaFortune 
8:00 p.m.Stepan Center $2.00 Rebel Without a Cause $10.00 
Father of the Bride 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium 
Cushing Auditorium 

~llJUEI'<T UNION IIG'.RO
$2.00 
•
$2.00 

• 
" 

• Sports 
page 

r 
-
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 

Friendly rivalry of 
Holtz and Walsh 
makes game special 
Forget Saturday's contest between Stanford and Notre Dame on the field. Focus your attention to the battle shaping up on the sidelines between two of football's premier coaches. 
The Cardinal's Bill Walsh and Lou Holtz of the Fighting Irish will meet for the first time ever as adversaries on opposing sidelines. 
Holtz reputation as a coaching wizard is well-documented in this area, but the stories of Walsh's ingenious coaching may be foreign to some. 
His three Super Bowls and seven National Football Conference playoff appearances as head coach the San Francisco Forty-Niners says enough, but Walsh had a greater impact on the league then his own success. 
Along with his assistants, Walsh revolutionized offensive football in the NFL. shifting the trend from dominating ground attacks to controlled short passing schemes. 
Walsh is also regarded as a master at eva! uating talent. His ability to find marquee players such as Joe Montana and Tim McKyer in the later rounds of the draft were instrumental in building San Francisco into the team of the eighties. 
At their weekly press conference, Holtz and Walsh spoke of each other with the utmost respect. 
"Our players are going to have to play hard, because if this game is won on the sidelines, it's not going to be on our sidelines," Holtz said. 
"He's a great gameday coach. He always makes the right decisions and utilizes the clock," commented the Stanford coach. 
Neither coach should get the opportunity to build on their immense reputations Saturday. Notre Dame is more experienced and more talented. But, as we all know too well., that doesn't assure a victory {see Michigan game). If the Cardinal is able to hang with the Irish, hold on to you Richter scales. The brain waves will shake the stadium. 
The biggest chess match ever held at Notre Dame will boast the biggest of prises. Bowl invitations, and possible national championships linger in the balance. But, the biggest reward of all is for the victor of the coaching battle. 
The win will reap benefits in the form of recruits, rewards, and most significantly, respect. Secretly the two coaches must acknowledge this game as an opportunity to boost their images and solidify their reputations. 
Saturday marks the first time in both men's careers that they enter a game knowing they could coach the finest game of their lives and still be out­coached. 
The game will put immense strain on both field generals. Walsh will pace the sidelines an increased rate, and Holtz will go to his knees more often to pick the blades of grass which seem to settle his nervousness. 
The game itself is important, but it is Holtz vs. Walsh which makes the game a rivalry. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•cowboys 
await Cunningham see page 17 

•viola 
misses no-hitter see page 16 

•Maddux 
wins twentieth see page 15 



Riley, McWilliams claim MCC awards 

BY HEATHER WILEY Sports Writer 
Breen-Phillips' and Walsh's interhall football teams renewed their rivalry on Sunday, with BP managing a close win over Walsh 12­0 with two big plays, one in their second drive of the game, and the second coming late in the last half. 
"BP had a really good defense and they just sort of shut down our offense completely. It was a close game," said Walsh captain Laura LaVigne. Walsh's defense was tough as well, allowing BP little yardage with the exception of the two scoring drives. 
The next set of interhall football games will be played on Sunday, October 4. Walsh will play Pangborn at 7 p.m. BP's game will be at 9 
p.m. against Lyons. 
Siegfried 19, PE 13 
The Siegfried Slammers, under leadership from quarterback Marcie McNiel, squeezed by the PE Pyros in overtime last Sunday. 
The game was tied with a minute left in the game with the Slammers having possession of the ball when PE defensive end Alison Martin inter­cepted an errant pass, giving PE an eleventh-hour chance to win. But the Pyros, could not convert, and in the overtime period the Slammers scored a touchdown and then secured the win with an interception. 
Siegfried's next match will be Sunday against Farley at 8 p.m., and PE will face Knott at 4. 
Off-Campus12, Howard 0 
Off-Campus shut out Howard Hall last Sunday with two touchdown passes in the second half. Howard's defense played strong, as the teams remained scoreless at the half. 
But in addition to big runs turned in by Agnes Taylor and the defensive efforts of Kerry Norton, quarterback Marianne Haggerty managed to connect twice with wide receiver Theresa Forst to down Howard. 
"It felt really strange to play against Howard, because four of us are from Howard. We were playing against our own dorm, but it was a good game even though it felt weird," said Forst, "They're a good team." 
Howard has a bye this Sunday, and Off-Campus will be facing Badin at 5 p.m. 
PW 6, Farley 0 
Two strong defenses dominated this low-scoring game between the Weasels and Farley's Finest. On the last play of the second half, Junior Bridget Graham scored the only touchdown of the game on a pass from the Weasel's junior quarterback Bethany Riddle. 
Farley's offense kept the ball moving throughout the game, but due to strong defensive play from Kathleen Glines, Megan Butler, Kiev Vu, and Kristen Herring, PW's defense stopped the Finest's efforts on two key fourth down plays to hold Farley scoreless. 
Farley's offensive line showed great improvement and defensive players Linda Keefe and Gretchen Ganc both had strong games with Ganc pulling in an interception. 
Pasquerilla West will play Lewis at 6 p.m. next Sunday, and Farley's next game will be against Siegfried at 8 p.m. 
see FOOTBALUpage 18 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's top two runners at this weekend's National Catholic Invitational, sophomore Sarah Riley and junior Mike McWilliams, were named MCC Players­of-the-Week in women's and men's cross country. 
Riley edged Loyola junior Julie Keller, the defending MCC champion. and lrd the Irish to the team title. Riley completed the five-kilometer course in 17:56.9, less than two seconds ahead of runnerup Keller. After the two leaders, the next five runners were from Notre Dame as the Irish tallied 19 points to finish ahead of runnerup St. Thomas, who had 99. 
Riley played a pivitol role on the team as a freshman a year ago, but has blossomed this season after a rigorous summer of training. Riley also led the Irish harriers in their first dual meet of the year against Georgetown. Along with last year's top runner, Eva Flood, and Stefanic Jensen, Becky Alfieri and Emily Husted, Riley leads the Irish's impressive sophomore class. 
All-America McWilliams also led the sixth-ranked Irish men's team to the National Catholics title. McWilliams fin­ished the five-mile course on the Burke Memorial Golf Course in 25:02.5, less than a second ahead of teammate Nate Ruder. 
The Irish captured the top four spots in the race and added a ninth-place finish for 19 points, far ahead of the 61-point effort by runnerup Marquette. 
McWilliams is one of the nation's best collegiate cross-country runners, as he is a two-time All-American and was just the eighth American finisher at last year's NCAA meet in Tuscon, Arizona. He has led the Irish in both meets this season and figures to pace the squad all year long as the Irish try to erase last year's disappointing NCAA snub and regain the form that led them to a third­place finish in the NCAA's two years ago. 
McWilliams and senior All-American John Coyle comprise the core of this year's team. 
impresses 
BY NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
In their first regatta of the .season, both the 
.men and women's.varsity crew teams placed at the Head of the Ohio in Pittsburgh last weekend. 
The women's lightweight four placed second behind Miami of Ohio, in an impressive show of hard work and determination. But even that might not have been enough if it hadn't been for coxswain Trkia Starr. 
"We probably would not have medaled without the help of her intensity," said stroke Tricia Cody."She kept us going." 
Meanwhile, with more than forty crews competing { including M.l.T;. Brown and several Canadian crews), the women's lightweight eight rowed their way into second place behind Ohio State. 
"I was more than happy with our performances this weekend," said women's varsity coach Maureen Kibelstis. "I think this is a clear indication of what we can achieve this season." 
Both the men's lightweight four and eight teams' placings last weekend were needed starts to a tough season. 
The mens' lightweight eight ranked third behind Brock University and Cornell University. 
"We're pleased. This gives us the confidence to face tho many challenges that lie ahead,~ said men's varsity coach Bill Webb. 
The men's lightweight four also gave Webb cause to be pleased. Although Cornell University placed first, the Irish were able to place third. 
"The Ohio served as a litmus test for the team," said Reeder, president of the Notre Dame rowing club. "The Head of Charles is a mile longer, and the competition is going to be tougher than the Head of Ohio's -which means more intense practices." 









