--------------------------------·---------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------~--~ 



Samt Mary~ College 
NOTRE OAME•INDIANA 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 83 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush proposes tax cuts in State of Union address 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Tuesday night proposed election-year tax cuts and business incentives to re­vive America's economy and vowed, "We're going to lift this nation out of hard times." Bush also outlined dramatic cuts in the U.S. nuclear arsenal. 
In his State of the Union speech, the president chal­lenged the Democrat-controlled Congress to back his economic programs by March 20 or face a political fight. Invoking Gulf War rhetoric, he vowed the re­cession "will not stand." 
The centerpiece of his eco­nomic plan was a bid to put more money in peoples' pay­checks by lowering tax with­holding rates -even though it would mean smaller refunds a year from now. Bush said it would pump $25 billion into the economy. It would increase take-home pay by an average of $300 for more than 90 million wage-earners, the White House said. 
In a nationally televised ad­dress, Bush discussed the bene-
Lanzinger: NO rich in languages 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame serves as a cul­tural center for the entire Michiana area, especially in the area of foreign languages said Klaus Lanzinger, professor of German and Russian language and literature at a lecture Tuesday. 
"We have a long, distin­guished history of foreign lan­guages behind us. Not only do we celebrate the sesquicenten­nial year of the University, but also of the modern and classi­cal languages," Lanzinger said regarding the growth of foreign languages at Notre Dame. 
European culture and her­itage has been preserved at Notre Dame in the art galleries, the church, and in the architec­ture, Lanzinger said. The com­bination of European history and modern American ways ex­plains the success of this Uni­versity, he said. 
"Foreign languages had an auspicious beginning at Notre Dame considering the founders were French speaking," said Lansinger. The history of for­eign languages dates back to the founding of the university in 1842, said Lanzinger, especially in the title, L'Universite de Notre Dame Du Lac. 
Languages in the mid 1800's emphasized language instruc­tion, rather than literature, and languages were closely tied in with the fine arts, said Lanzinger. 
It was common practice for colleges, especially Catholic universities, to charge extra fees for the instruction of for­eign languages, according to Lanzinger. In 1885 Latin and 
see LANZINGERI page 7 

fits of a reduced military threat from the disintegrated Soviet Union. "The American taxpayer bore the brunt of the (Cold War) burden, and deserves a hunk of the glory," he said. 
Bush said he would ask Rus­sian President Boris Yeltsin on Saturday to agree to eliminate all land-based multiple war­head ballistic missiles. If Yeltsin agrees, Bush said, the United States will eliminate all MX missiles, reduce the number of warheads on Minuteman missiles to just one and cut the number of warheads on sea­based missiles by about one­third. 
The arms proposal would mark the first time since 1945 that the United States has no nuclear weapons in production. 
Over six years, the president proposed to cut defense spend­ing by $50 billion and use the savings to finance tax reduc­tions. 
Bush's plan also would freeze federal spending on most do­mestic programs at current levels. 
Frugal fun 

S~udents have fun in The Huddle while playing poker with small stakes--Cracklin' Oat Bran was the highest and only bet made. 
President Bush 

The Democrats sought to portray the tax cuts certain to come in terms of haves versus have-nots. 
" ... We seek a fundamental change from the unsuccessful economic policies of the past 12 years," House Speaker Thomas 
S. Foley said. "We will insist that this time, the benefits must go to working families, not to the privileged." 
"We will insist that a middle class tax cut be paid for not by taking money that should go to schools and health care, but by calling on the richest of our cit­izens, at long last, to pay their fair share," he said. 
The president openly ac­knowledged that his election­year message to the nation would be read by many as a partisan theme for his cam­paign -an aside that drew groans from the assembled Democrats. The White House also hopes it will arrest his slide in the polls. 
"I am doing what I think is right; I am proposing what I know will help," Bush said. 
The historic House chamber was standing-room-only, packed with lawmakers and members of the Bush Cabinet. In an unusual opening, Bush began with a joke about the high expectations for his speech: "I wanted to be sure i.t would be a big hit -but I couldn't convince Barbara to deliver it for me." 
Recalling the allied victory over Iraq in the Persian Gulf War, Bush told Congress "we must stand together" to solve the problems at home. 
The Observer/Garr Schwartz 



Armenians shoot down helicopter 
BAKU, Azerbaijan (AP) ­Armenian rebels shot down a civilian helicopter over the disputed enclave of Nagorno­Karabakh on Tuesday, an Azerbaijani presidential spokesman said. About 40 men, women and children were re­ported killed. 
The attack was the most se­rious incident reported in the fight for control of the war-torn enclave since another heli­copter was shot down on Nov. 21, killing more than 20 people. 
Predominantly Muslim Azer­baijan and mainly Christian Armenia, two former Soviet re­publics, have battled for three years to gain control of Nagorno-Karabakh, located in Azerbaijan near Iran but popu­lated mostly by Armenians. 
Vagib Rustamov, a spokesman for President Ayaz Mutalibov of Azerbaijan, said the helicopter was flying over Stepanakert, capital of the enclave, at about 4 p.m. when it was attacked. It was en route to Shusha from the Azeri town of Agdam. 
The Azerbaijani mission in Moscow said the helicopter was shot down by a heat-seeking missile, Russian television said. The newscast said the pilots tried "heroically" to save the aircraft and managed at the last minute to turn it away from Shusha. 
Miyana Minakian, a press secretary at the Armenian Mis­sion in Moscow, confirmed an Azerbaijani helicopter had been shot down. 
The helicopter was "presumably carrying weapons and ammunition to Azerbaijanis who have been attacking the Armenian village of Karintag (near Stepanakert) for the past three days," she said. She gave no more details. 
Russian state-run television also said "at least eight" people died Tuesday in ground fighting near Karintag. 
It was not immediately known exactly how many people were on board the helicopter. Reports from both sides indicated the number was about 40. 
The conflict in the Caucasus Mountains has claimed more than 800 lives. The warfare be­tween the former republics has intensified since Russia's deci­sion in December to withdraw former Soviet military units from the area. 
On Jan. 2, the Azerbaijani president imposed direct rule on Nagorno-Karabakh, putting local governments under his control. 
But on Jan. 19, leaders in 
see ATTACK I page 4 
"We can bring the same courage and sense of common purpose to the economy that we brought to Desert Storm," Bush said. "And we can defeat hard times together." 
But on a political note, Bush challenged Congress to approve his proposals by March 20 or face a fight from the White House. "From the day after that, if it must be: the battle is joined," the president said. "And you know, when principle is at stake, I relish a good fair fight." 
The major elements of Bush's program: 
• Income-tax withholding ta­bles will be adjusted at once by the Internal Revenue Service to give many Americans more take-home pay. Even though that would reduce the size of next year's refunds, Bush said the move would put $25 billion into the economy in the next six months. 
Increases in take-home pay would average from around $17 5 for single individuals to 
see BUSH I page 4 


HPC alters constitution on FCC 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) amended a section of the Con­stitution of the Undergraduate Student Body dealing with the selection process of representa­tives to the Freshman Class Council in its meeting Tuesday, as well as passed a resolution dealing with rape and sexual assault on campus. 

The constitutional amend­ment allows individual resi­dence halls to decide whether their representative to the Freshman Class Council will be chosen by an election or a se­lection process. 
The amendment was pro­posed by Keith McKeon and Steve Connolly, Grace Hall President and Vice-President, and Mike Frazier and Mike Griffin, President and Vice­President of Morrissey, with the intention to make the selection process more fair in larger dorms. 
McKeon said that freshmen in the larger dorms do not have significant opportunity to meet each other before an election. "It's just too big a place," he added. 
If the dorms choose not to hold an election, they must use a "selection/interview pro­cess...consist[ing] of no less than the hall President and Vice-President (Co-Presidents) and the previous representative to Freshman Class Council." 
The resolution dealing with rape and sexual assault was submitted by Knott Hall Presi­dent Maureen Connelly and Stanford Hall Co-President Greg Butrus, as a result of their work on the Crime Task Force's subcommittee on date rape. 
see HPC I page 7 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Additions to presidential field needed 
As I happily watched the Washington Redskins beat senseless another weak AFC challenger, I couldn't help but notice an in­creasingly popular 'John Madden for president' 

sign amongst the crowd in  Anthony King  
the Metrodome.  Associate Sports  
Although I knew it was  __....;;E;;.;d;;.;.it.;.;;o;.;..r__  
another cheap ploy for  

television time, I couldn't help but think. "could these people be serious?" John Madden in the White House? I kept thinking of the stupid 'telestrations' he could invent for every conceivable situation. Here Madden is telesrating the way Sam Donaldson resembles Spock. Fortunately, I regained consciousness, and remembered the actual 'qualified' political candidates that are running for office. Arkansas governor Bill Clinton, following the Democratic footsteps of Gary "Donna Rice" Hart. has allegedly been unable to control his 'razorback', and had an affair with a local reporter. His closest competitor is Paul Tsongas. No offense Paul, but most people can hardly pronounce your name, little alone spell it. For the Republicans, it looks like it will be George Bush, like it or not. It also appears the Republicans will continue their pointless "Dan Quayle is not as dumb as he acts" push, by including him on the '92 ticket. Bush leads all the Democrats in the polls, except one-an unnamed one. I've thought about it, and I have decided to help out the Democrats by coming up with a few 'well qualified' candidates of my own. Ed McMahon. Yes!!! You heard right, Johnny's sidekick would beat anyone. Bush has tried to create jobs, Ed has done it. Star Search has launched careers such as Sinbad and Sawyer Brown, and countless others. No one could ever call Ed unpatriotic, Ed drinks American. Ed has one-handedly supported Anheiser­Busch over the years. Anyone on HPC. These youngsters have already mastered the techniques politicians spend years to develop. These masterminds have proven they know politics, and the benefits that go along with it. Bush would easily buckle to the "Eat more, it helps the economy" platform. Don Cornelius and Danny Tarrio. Well, let's face it, these guys need jobs. After the demise of Dance Fever and Soul Train, the nation has not quite been the same. We need couple number four from Akron, Ohio back in our lives. What better way to spice up boring press conferences. Mike Tyson. The king of the ring may have his troubles now, but come primary time, he'll be ready to run. His recent situation will give Tyson a first hand experience with our legal system, and with Don 'the hair' King managing his campaign, he can't lose. Plus, the Japanese love his Nintendo game. Well, maybe Madden isn't so bad after all. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production News 
Kristin Lynch Paul Pearson Lisa Bourdon Ann-Marie Hartman 
Sports Graphics 
Mike Scrudato Brendan Regan 

Viewpoint Accent 
Rich Riley Patrick Moran 
J. Brian Stalter Anna Marie Tabor Guy Loranger 
Lab Tech Systems 
Garr Schwartz Mike Murphy 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
t 
TEMPERATURES: 

City H L Amsterdam 37 25 Atlanta 50 44 Bogota 68 39 Boston 29 
28 Brisbane 82 
72 
Chicago 33 

27 Denver 45 28 Evansville 53 
31 
Fairbanks 02 -04 Great Falls 51 42 Honolulu 82 
63 
Houston 57 

51 London 46 
51 
71 
05 
30 




~~~' ~ 34 
34 : ~=~~~~hla i~ 27 
57 San Diego 75 48 South Bend 35 
30 Tokyo 54 
43 
Tulsa 49 37
PrBSSura 

Washington, D.C. 37 32
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T -5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIII Associated Prr1S5 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Chinese leader wants market economy 
•HONG KONG-China's paramount leader, Deng Xi­aoping, has issued his strongest pro-reform statement in years, warning that the Communists will lose power if they don't embrace a market economy, a newspaper re­ported today. "If capitalism has something good, then socialism should bring it over and use it," Deng was quoted as saying by the pro-Beijing Ta Kung Pao. In a front-page story with a headline reading, "Whoever Doesn't Push Reform Will Fall Off The Stage," the paper quoted Deng as praising China's two stock markets and ordering it to speed up the pace of economic reforms. "Reforms and greater openness are China's only way out," Deng was quoted as saying. "No reform is a dead end." Western diplomats said they considered the report significant because it appeared in a paper which has con­sistently toed the line of the Chinese Communist Party. 
NATIONAL 
Elementar~ school puts on thinking cap 
•VENEDY, IL Hats off to Principal Todd Ricketts and his fund-raising idea. In fact, Ricketts is asking the rich and famous everywhere to doff their hats and send them to his Johannesburg Elementary School, where they will 


OF INTEREST 
•Interested seniors and undergrads: Kelly Bishop, a representative of Covenant House, will be in the Library concourse from 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and in the esc from 1-3 
p.m. to talk about the program. 
•JPW 
seating will be open today from 2-9 p.m. in room 112 of the Center for Continuing Education. Today is your last chance for seating assignments. 

•The 
Society of Professional Journalists will bring student journalists from different media together to increase the visibility of journalism at NO and provide a source for career information. The first meeting is today at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. If you're involved in campus media or take journalism courses, you're eligible to join. 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski Team will hold an informational meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. All people 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/January 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 245,216,820 228.94 ... 0.28 S&P COMPOSITE 414.99 • 0.42 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,240.61 • 7.84 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-f' $ .20 to $355.150/oz. 
SILVER.ft 6.2¢ to $4.173/oz. 

be auctioned to raise money for playground gear, computers and other equipment. ''I'm hoping we can clear $1,000," he said Monday. So far, 600 hats have ar­rived, including headgear from country singer Mickey Gilley, Ducks Unlimited and the company that makes Tabasco sauce. Those unable to part with their hats have sent other items. President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle sent autographed photos. So did Ed McMahon. Alan Aida sent a script he wrote for "M.A.S.H." The do­nations go on the block Feb. 29. The school, with 165 pupils, is in southern Illinois about 40 miles east of St. Louis. 



CAMPUS 

Memorial funds established 
•Notre Dame, Ind.-Families of the two members of the Notre Dame women's swim team who died in the bus accident early Friday have established scholarships in their memories. Memorial contributions may be made to the Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarship Fund; St. Joseph Academy; 2307 S. Lindbergh Blvd; St. Louis. Mo., 63131. Memorial contributions may be made to the Meghan Beeler Memorial Scholarship Fund; University of Notre Dame Room 212 Main Building, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
intere_sted in the spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyommg, should attend. If you have questions, call Bob or Chris at 277-7089. 
•The 
Wednesday Lunch Fast begins Wednesday, Feb. 5th. Students who want to skip Wednesday lunches and have the money sent to project sites in the Third World for farmer education and soup kitchens, please sign up in the dining halls this week. 

•Multicultural 
Executive Council applications are now available in the Student Activities Office, on the third floor of LaFortune Center. The deadline for applications is Feb. 14th. 

•Residence 
hall contracts for 1992-93 academic year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to be eligible for housing in the fall, students must return the contract to the Office of Student Residences prior to 5 


p.m. Friday. 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1900: The American League, consisting of eight baseball teams, was organized in Philadelphia. 

• 
In 1979: President Carter formally welcomed Chinese Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping to the White House, following the establishment of diplomatic relations. 

• 
In 1990: Former Exxon Valdez skipper Joseph Hazelwood went on trial in Anchorage, Alaska, on charges stemming from the nation's worst oil spill. 

• 
O~e year ago: In his State of the Union address, President Bush assured Americans the war against Iraq would be won and that the recession at home would end in short order. 



.-------~---~----~----------------------------------~----­
Wednesday, January 29, 1992 The Observer 

Outlaw: Minority Affairs helps all ND students 
By BILL ALBERTINI News Writer 
All Notre Dame students are encouraged to take part in the programs which the Office of Minority Affairs helps to sponsor, says Iris Outlaw, di­rector of Minority Affairs. She wants students to know that these programs are for the ed­ucation of all students. 
Minority Affairs deals with some of the race relations problems on campus. During the fall semester the office has helped students report three racial incidents one being "racial slurs in the classroom or dining halls." 
Minority Affairs also works to help collate the various ethnic clubs on campus, in order to bring speakers and help with festivals, Outlaw said. The of­fice also helps minority students attain financial aid help and academic advisement, ac­cording to Outlaw. 
In the fall semester Minority Affairs helped the Hispanic American Organization with a multicultural festival and a Spanish mass. They aided in the organization of the Black Images festival, as well as sponsored trips to Purdue Uni­versity to see speakers and cul­tural events. 
During Junior Parents Week­end Minority Affairs will spon­sor Jawanza Kunjufu, who will speak on the survival skills needed for people of color moving into the twenty-first century. 
On March 16 the office will sponsor a motivational speaker, Samuel Betances. 
Tonight at 7 p.m. the office will be sponsoring a lecture on "Uniting the Black Race to Move Forward" LaFrancis Rogers Rose, author of "The Black Woman," in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Outlaw took over as head of Minority Affairs in the fall. She said that she had little time to prepare for the fall semester and there were few plans un­derway when she arrived at the job. 
In general, Outlaw says she wants to encourage students to "celebrate the difference of all cultures" rather than simply concentrate on one singe cul­ture. 

page 3 
South Africa arrests white militants 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Police arrested 10 white extremist leaders Tuesday in raids certain to en­rage right-wingers, who are al­ready threatening violence against government moves to­ward power-sharing with blacks. 
Among those arrested on charges of public violence was Eugene TerreBlanche, head of the Afrikaner Resistance Movement, who is considered South Africa's most militant right-wing leader. 
He and nine associates in the neo-Nazi group were released on bail of up to $36, and a court date was set for March 9. 
The 10 men were arrested at their homes in pre-dawn raids reminiscent of sweeps in black townships during the state of emergency that ended in 1990. 
TerreBlanche complained that his 10-year-old daughter "had to endure the humiliation, with tears in her eyes, of seeing her father arrested in front of his family on his own farm." 
"This is what one should ex­pect in a police state," right­winger Piet Rudolph said of his arrest. 
In recent weeks, police also have arrested more than 10 other members of right-wing groups on suspicion of bombing schools and post offices to protest President F.W. de Klerk's reforms. 
Many observers think the bombings are likely to increase if de Klerk pushes ahead with his promise to end apartheid and share power with the coun­try's 30 million blacks. 
Robert van Tonder, leader of another right-wing group, said de Klerk was "creating a cli­mate of hate and bitterness" with the arrests. 
But de Klerk said police had merely carried out their law enforcement duties. "The police are applying the laws of the land without political bias," he said. 


.NEED TO DOCTOR YOUR MCATSCORE? 
IfyoorMCAT seen! needs a shot in the ann. come to the experts in test preparation­Sianley H. Kaplan. 
Our test-taking techniques andeducational review will help you be in top condition testda¥ We11 ootonly sharpen yoor scientific knowledge. but yoor reading. problem~ 
and essay-writingskills too. Socall the best in test prep-Kaplan. And getan MCAT seen! that youdeserw. 




IKAPLAN 
SfMUYII. UPUII__..C11111DI. 
DON'TCOMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE Or.!E 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 



page 4 The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
SECURITY BEAT 
ursday, January 23 

2:24 p.m. Air Force ROTC reported the theft of their United States Flag from the Hesburgh Library. 
6:48 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Notre Dame Fire responded to a two car accident on U.S. 33. Injured parties were treated at the scene. 
3:17 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket from the basement of the South Dining Hall. 
Friday, January 24 

1:30 a.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported that the left rear window had been smashed out of his vehicle while it was parked In the D·2 parking lot. 
8:45 a.m. A Breen Phillips resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
2:29 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his parking decal from his vehicle while the vehicle was parked at the South Dining Hall. 
7:30 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported he lost his wallet at the Post Office on Notre Dame Avenue. 
Sunday, January 26 

1:48 a.m. A St. Edwards Hall resident reported the theft of cash from his unlocked dorm room. 
1:00 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
1:32 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of a color television from his vehicle while it was parked In the 0·6 parking lot. 
5:51 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his stereo system from his vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the C·1 parking lot. 
Monday, January 27 

2:07 a.m. Notre Dame Security wit­nessed a suspect breaking a window at Fisher Hall. The officers identified and questioned the suspect about the Incident and then releaSed him. 
Attack 
continued from page 1 
Nagorno-Karabakh declared independence from Azerbaijan and said they wanted the dis­puted territory to become a new member of the Common­wealth of Independent States. the Soviet Union's successor. 
Azerbaijani officials have been sent to the scene to inves­tigate the crash, Rustamov said. 

Bush 
continued from page 1 
more than $600 for two-income families, the administration claimed. 
• 
The personal exemption for dependent children, now $2,300 per child, would be raised by $500 per child to $2,800. However, the increase would not take effect until next Oct. 1. 

• 
First-time homebuyers would receive a tax credit of up to $5,000 for homes bought this year, with half of the credit applying to 1992 taxes and the other half to 1993 taxes. 

• 
Up to $10,000 could be withdrawn from Individual Re­tirement Accounts without penalty for first-time home purchases. 

• 
All families could deduct the interest they pay on student loans. 

• 
The capital gains tax, the tax on profits from the sale of stock, real estate and other as­sets, would be cut from its cur­rent top rate of 28 percent to a maximum rate of 15.4 percent for assets held at least three years. 

• 
Businesses could take an extra 15 percent depreciation allowance to encourage them to invest in more equipment and machinery. 

• 
Tax credits and vouchers to help low and middle-income families buy health insurance, up to a maximum of $3,750 per family. Bush is expected to more fully spell out his health insurance program next month. 

• 
All domestic programs ex­cluding benefits programs like Social Security would be frozen at current year levels. 


Palestinians boycott Mideast peace talks 

MOSCOW (AP) -Secretary of State James Baker is locked in a dispute with Palestinian Arabs that threatens to jeopar­dize the Middle East peace con­ference Baker arranged so painstakingly. 
The Palestinians boycotted the first day of a two-day con­ference on regional Mideast problems Tuesday because members of their delegation weren't allowed in. Israel is threatening to walk out if those Palestinians -residents of east Jerusalem or from outside the region -are permitted to take part. 
"If these people that we're opposed to will come, they will negotiate with themselves," Is­raeli Foreign Minister David Levy said. 
Hanan Ashrawi, the West Bank literature professor who is spokeswoman for the Pales­tinians, said they would never agree to a "truncated" delega­tion and that their "principles and dignity" were at stake. 
The Palestinians appeared to have rejected Baker's final terms for their engagement in the talks, but contacts contin­ued late Tuesday and a Pales­tinian official said he had " a lot of hope" they would participate. 
Baker said the Palestinians would be mistaken to miss the talks. As a compromise, he had offered to support the partici­pation of Palestinians from the diaspora in any regional talks that followed the Moscow meeting, though not in the di­rect negotiations with Israel that are expected to resume next month. 
James Baker 

The rules, Baker said in a statement to the conference, "should not be changed at the last minute if this entire process is to continue to have credibility with all of us." 
The result of the Palestinian withdrawal is that some 24 na­tions are preparing to discuss the problems of Palestinian refugee camps at a meeting where no Palestinians are pre­sent. 
They are examining another major conference topic, weapons proliferation, without Syria, whose acquisition of modern arms from the Soviet Union and North Korea is a major factor in the balance. 
President Hafez Assad de­cided months ago not to attend. His reasoning was that discus­sions of regional problems should be held only after bilat­eral Arab-Israeli talks have be­gun to bear fruit. Lebanon fol­lowed Syria's lead. 
Baker's aides had to comfort themselves Tuesday night with the presence of 11 other Arab delegations, including Saudi Arabia. 
JFK panel leader asks for opening of files 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Rep. Louis Stokes, who headed the House investigation into Presi­dent John F. Kennedy's assas­sination, said Tuesday he will introduce a resolution to re­lease secret files on the case. 
Stokes offered no timetable and said he's seeking co-spon­sors for his measure. 
While many of his commit­tee's records on the assassina­tion were released in 1979, others were to remain sealed until2029. 
The files have become controversial because the movie "JFK" suggests they could yield important clues on an assassination conspiracy. 
The movie alleges that Kennedy's death resulted from a conspiracy involving govern­ment officials and defense contractors. The Oliver Stone­directed film indicates the files were kept sealed as part of a cove,rup, 
Stokes, D-Ohio, said in a brief floor speech that the flles will reveal nothing about a government conspiracy or a coverup. 
"I can assure my colleagues that nothing could be further from the truth," Stokes said. "Americans are entitled to know the truth of the assassi­nation ofPresident Kennedy." 
The assassinations committee concluded in 1979 that Kennedy was the victim of a probable conspiracy and it was possible "that an individUal organized crime leader or a small combination of leaders might have participated in a conspiracy." 
The committee also concluded that a conspiracy might have been behind the 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. 
Meanwhile Tuesday, the Dal­las Police Department released some 2,000 pages of materials, discovered recently in police intelligence archives, in the deaths of Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald, whom the Warren Commission concluded was the president's lone assassin. 
Officials said there appeared to be little or no new informa­tion in the materials to shed new light on the killings. 
Included were such docu­ments as Oswald's grade school records, letters sent to Oswald's killer. Jack Ruby, in jail and the personnel files of police Officer J.D. Tippit, who was slain by Oswald after the assassination. 
Despite the apparent lack of new information, the docu­ments drew dozens of visitors to Dallas City Hall. City archivist Cindy Smolovik said she had already received hun­dreds of inquiries from as far away as Germany and Aus­tralia. 
The Dallas City Council had voted unanimously Monday to order the documents made public. 





Medjugorje 
January 25, 1992 Message from Our Lady the Queen ofPeace 
"Dear Children! Today I am invit­ing you to a renewal of prayer in your families, so that way every family will become a joy to my Son, Jesus. There­fore, dearchildren, pray, and seek more time for Jesus and then you will be able to understand and accept everything, even the most difficult sicknesses and crosses. I am with you and I desire to take you into my heart and protect you, but you have not yet decided. 
"Therefore, dear children, I am seeking for you to pray so through prayer you would allow me to help you. Pray, my dear little children, so prayer becomes your daily bread. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
Join in Mass celebrating OurLad)''S coming as the Queen of Peace: 630 p.m., February 25th, Little Flower Catholic Church (54191 N. Ironwood) and receive Our Lady's February 25th message! 
(On March 25th, the Feast ofthe Annunciation, we will be in Sacred Heart Basilica at Notre Dame!) 
The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
The Obse!Ver/E.G. Bailey 
JPW sign-ups 
The JPW committee is all smiles as it awaits the Class of 1993 to come and sign-up for the various JPW events that will be held the weekend of February 14. 


YOU CAN STOP TffiS DEATH!! 

2 CHANCES TO FIND OUT 
HOW•••• 


JEREMY RIFKIN 
ENVIRONMENTALACTIVIST 
JANUARY 29th 
FIRESIDE CHAT PRESENTATION 7p.m.
12 p.m. Libnuy Auditorium
ISO Lounge Admission Free
Free Lunch 
pageS 

Clinton tries to get back on N.H. campaign trail 
MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP) ­Joe Grandmaison says if he had endorsed Democrat Bill Clinton for president two weeks ago, "people wouldn't have given a damn." He's probably right. 
But with Clinton's campaign sidetracked by what the Arkansas governor calls "cash for trash" allegations of infi­delity, all sides are watching to see if the Arkansas governor can rally from crisis. 
There was great interest when Grandmaison, the former state Democratic chairman, announced late Monday that he was endorsing Clinton. Grand­maison stepped forward just hours after an Arkansas woman told a news conference that she had had an affair with Clinton. 
Clinton has vehemently denied the allegations of Gennifer ·Flowers, who first alleged the 12-y~;Jar affair in a paid interview with the Star tabloid, then repeated it at a news conference arranged by the Star. 
Clinton supporters say that as long as Flowers' allegations remain unproven and no credi­ble new charges arise, the gov­ernor should be able to redirect attention to the substance of his campaign. 
The next days will be crucial, with Clinton headed back to the New Hampshire campaign trail on Wednesday and scheduled to appear in a nationally televised debate on Friday. 
The governor is counting on friends and supporters to step forward in his defense. Many are doing so, although not without some trepidation. 
"The test for me .. . (is) whether I'm willing to act pub­licly on my belief that this man would be an extraordinary president," Grandmaison said. "If the worst thing they can say about me is that I stood up for a friend, there are far worse things that can be said about people." · 
Georgia Gov. Zell Miller was in repeated contact with Clinton advisers Tuesday, asking if he could help. His state, with a March 3 primary, will be a cru­cial firewall for Clinton if the Arkansas governor fares poorly in New Hampshire on Feb. 18. 
Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana stood up beside Clin­ton at a campaign appearance on Monday. "This is an essential week," he said of his longtime friend's campaign. 
Former Michigan Gov. James Blanchard contacted the Clinton campaign Tuesday, asking how he and other governors and former governors could help. Several other Clinton backers, including Oklahoma Rep. Dave McCurdy and Kentucky Gov. Brereton Jones have offered to move up planned endorsement announcements. 


CAMPUS COMPETITION Indoor Soccer (Men & Women) Badminton Doubles (Open) Co-ReeWater Volleyball 
INTERHALL COMPETITION RecSports Swim Relays (team event) 
QUESTIONS ? 


Deadline ­

CALL...239-6100 

January 29 

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS You WON'T GET THE LETTERS. ' 
EDUWIONH GROUP 
·­
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION Be COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 

page 6 

Shuttle crew pauses, reflects on Challenger 
CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. (API -Discovery's astronauts kept up a grueling pace inside their orbiting laboratory Tuesday, but took a moment to reflect on the Challenger explosion that occurred six years ago. 
The Challenger exploded 73 
seeonds after liftoff on Jan. 28, 
1986, killing all seven astro­
nauts aboard. 
"It being the 28th, we're all very mindful of the sacrifices made along the way," said as­tronaut William Readdy. 
Chief flight director Handy Stone said NASA has made "strong strides" since then to correct weaknesses in the shuttle system. 
The crew of six men and one woman was squeezing in as much scientific work as possi­ble before the mission ends Thursday, with landing sched­uled for 11:07 a.m. EST. The flight was extended to eight days to allow an extra day for experiments. 
"You know how much work the scientists have put into putting experiments together. We only hope the data they're going to get back from this space mission will be reflective of all our caring and effort," astronaut Roberta Bondar said 
during a space-to-ground news 
conference. 
Bondar compared the mission 
to an "open-book exam." 
"I hope that when we get 
back we all get four A's," she 
told reporters. 
The news conference was 
conducted in English, French 
and German. Bondar, a Cana­
dian neurologist,. and crewmate 
Ulf Merbold, a German physi­
cist, are the first foreigners to 
fly on a NASA. shuttle since 
1985. 
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney called Bondar on Tuesday night from Ottawa and, speaking in English and French, congratulated her on a job well done. He asked what it was like viewing Canada from space. 
"It's just absolutely fantastic," Bondar said. 
Earlier, astronaut David Hilmers admitted being a little lax at times. He said he has trouble staying awake while riding in a rotating chair used in a space motion sickness study. 
Norman Thagard, a physician managing the Spacelab module in the cargo bay, said the crew had managed to get through most of the runs in the rotating chair, although it was a chal­lenge. 

The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 

The Observer/E. G. Balley
JPW dining 
Notr~ Dam? senior Cathy Baytion signs friends and herself up for seating at the JPW festivities Cathy was 1.n Spam last year when she would have normally celebrated the weekend so she is doing. so this 
year mstead. ' 

on 





Survey on Sexual Harassment 
Thursday, Jan. 30th 12 noon C.S.C. 
Questions, answers, follow-up,ideas, discussion. 
Repeated-Feb. lOth 7:00pm 
Library Lounge Sponsored by Faculty/Student Committee on Women 


The Observer 
has positions available for 

DAY EDITOR 
Contact Dannika at 239-7471 or 283-4233 Must be available 
Monday or Wednesday Mternoons 

ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! Applications now available for Senior Formal Chairperson Pick them up & return them to: LaFortune or Haggar Info. Desks Deadline: February 2nd 


Wednesday, January 29, 1992 The Observer page? 





Late Night Olympics 
Lanzinger 
continued from page 1 
Greek cost an added $25, when the annual tuition was $125, said Lansinger. "Imagine what the extra cost of foreign lan­guages would be today!" 
By the 1880's, Notre Dame was firmly established as an in­stitution of higher learning in the US, said Lanzinger. Stu­dents were required to learn two years of a foreign lan­guage, and the teaching meth­ods attained the practical ap­proach with an emphasis on eloquence and writing skills, he said. 
Foreign language depart­ments were established in the college of Arts and Letters as separate academic units in 1920, said Lanzinger. "Modern language teaching as we know it today emerged in the 1930's, along with the enrollment of thirty foreign students," he added. 
The 1930's also introduced the first foreign language clubs, Portuguese and the Slavic studies, which included Polish literature and Russian studies, said Lanzinger. 
A sophomore year abroad program in Innsbruck, Austria, was added to the curriculum in 1960, Lanzinger said. Programs to Mexico, France, Japan, Spain, Jerusalem, and Moscow were later incorporated, with intensive language teaching to prepare for the year abroad, he said. 
"Foreign study programs at Notre Dame have become one of the best in the country," said Lanzinger. 
There are many indications that the need for foreign lan­guages will increase in the fu­ture, said Lanzinger. The Uni­versity should require three semesters of language in the other colleges, not just in Arts and Letters, he said. 
Classical and Oriental lan­guages should expand into eastern Asia, and Modern lan­guages need a Ph.D program, Lanzinger said. 
"Foreign language teaching has never been interrupted," Lanzinger said, "We can look back with pride at our past ac­complishments and to the fu­ture for the knowledge and teaching ahead of us." 

ATTENTION JUNIORS 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY FOR JPW SEATING. 
IT WILL TAKE PLACE IN RM. 112 OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION FROM 
2-9 pm. THREE STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS WILL BE SEATED AT EACH· TABLE. ONE STUDENT MAY PRESENT THREE ID's. QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 or 283-2537. 
FREE COLOR OR PERM 
Men and women needed for 
Redken Professional Hair Seminar. lbis is a great chance to get a _ new look from Roy Peters Top Color and Penn Expert. 
Tues., February 18, 1992 
The Cllserver!Garr Schwartz


For more info, call Vicki or Kim 
Finding some peace and quiet


at Maly's 256-2033 
Saint Mary's College student Jennifer Faila spends a little time alone at the Peace Memorial on Notre Dame's campus. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
Butrus said that the primary intent of the resolution is to ask the Notre Dame Security Police and the Office of Student Affairs to "publish alleged rape and sexual assault attempts or occurrences in The Observer" in order to increase public awareness. 
The resolution also calls for the expansion of Du Lac to "include specific definitions of rape and sexual assault, using Indiana statute definition," the outlining of Notre Dame Secu­rity Police and Administrative procedures regarding rape and sexual assault, and the distri­bution of telephone stickers with emergency numbers. 
In other business, HPC unanimously decided to extend the Weekend Wheels service for the remainder of the semester. Council members said the Uni­versity is examining the possi­bility of allowing the service to transport students from cam­pus to off-campus. 

Friday January 31, 8 pm · 4 am Please support Special Olympics 


page 8 The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 

Attorneys argue over questions at Tyson rape trial 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -At­
torneys in Mike Tyson's rape 
trial clashed Tuesday as each 
side tried to probe potential 
jurors' fundamental feelings 
about rape: whether a woman 
might "ask for it," or lie about 
it. 
Eleven jurors -seven men 
and four women -have been 
seated. Marion Superior Court 
Judge Patricia Gifford estimated 
as court adjourned for the day 
that selection of a panel of 12 
jurors and four alternates 
would end Wednesday, with 
Jury selection continues for Dahmer trial 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Serial 
killer Jeffrey Dahmer watched 
quietly Tuesday while lawyers 
asked potential jurors for his 

sanity trial if they would be 
disgusted by testimony about 
cannibalism, dismemberment 
and sex with corpses. 
"You're going to hear about 

things you probably didn't 
know existed in the real world. 
Will you be able to handle 
that?" defense attorney Gerald 
Boyle asked a woman. 
Dahmer has pleaded guilty but insane to the slayings of 15 young males in Milwaukee County. If the jury agrees he was insane, he would be sent to a mental hospital and could petition for release every six months. If deemed sane, he would receive a mandatory life prison sentence for each slay­ing. 
Attorneys used one-on-one sessions with potential jurors in Judge Laurence Gram Jr.'s chambers to begin exposing them to details expected to emerge in testimony. 
"The issue is not whether he slept with a dead body or whether he tasted a dead body. The issue is whether he was re­sponsible for the killings that occurred," District Attorney E. Michael McCann said. 
The attorneys also made sure potential jurors hadn't seen a supermarket tabloid story that said Dahmer ate his prison cellmate. 
Dahmer chuckled briefly with attorneys when associate dis­trict attorney Carol White mentioned the article published this week. Attorneys said there was no truth to the story. 
"Do you read those stories about people in outer space having babies and them becom­ing president and all that junk? Do you believe it?" Boyle asked a young man. 


IIIIa IM11'1 1740 led~~~~~ An. 111111 a.,. (!18) !71-7416 
Rlla·n.t-CIIII:DI 
...ell .... 
I:.UIIHIT/IBJIHI'f AIAUti 
1/! IIU AWAY IMM CA... 
1:111: • -BIJIY ATAIIf
••.•TliR ...... Pl.a t .Iii fi lilY I'WICIIAIE
•nmaa 




Spring Break SURF'S UP 
DOMERS &SMICKS tired ol South Bend and -43°? Get on your own Party Plane to Cancun, Mexico. From 8475 to S835 
Our goal is to get achartered plane per dorm to beautiful Cancun Mexico lor Spring Break. 
Contact Campus Reps. 
LANCE DAWSON 271-1681 
oc/Dillon Jen Burgis 289-8842 oc/ Sorin Mike Kamradt 289-8842 (SMC) Mary Kamradt 284-4380 BP Marina Poulakidas 283-1284 oc/ Flanner Jodi Armena 283 -8842 Walsh Tinany Stransky 283 -2840 Grace Todd Henson 283-1784 
motions and opening statements after that. 
Tyson, 25, has been charged with rape, criminal deviate conduct and confinement. If convicted, the former world heavyweight boxing champion could be sentenced to 63 years in prison. 
"Do you think someone could make a false accusation of rape?" defense attorney Kath­leen Beggs asked one prospec­tive juror. Prosecution objec­tions that the question was "fact-sensitive" to the case prevented an answer. 
Deputy Prosecutor Barbara Trathen objected again when Beggs asked, "Do you have the feeling that a woman who ac­cuses someone of rape must be telling the truth or she wouldn't have come forward?" 
Defense attorneys returned the objections later when spe­cial prosecutor Greg Garrison tried to ask about whether bad judgment by victims justified the crimes committed against them. 
"Some people ask for it -and get what they ask for?" Garrison asked one potential juror. "Sometimes," replied the man, who was released from the jury pool. 
Tyson's accuser, an 18-year­old Miss Black America contes­tant, told police she met Tyson at a pageant rehearsal on July 18 and went with him to his ho­tel room, where in the pre­dawn hours of July 19 he re­strained her on the bed and raped her. 
The boxer, who has been ac­cused often of fondling women, insists his accuser consented to sex. 
"The woman knows what happened. I know what hap­pened. I'm innocent," he said after an earlier court appear­ance. 
Among the jurors seated Tuesday were a 37-year-old ex­Marine and IBM marketing manager and a 31-year-old woman who works for the In­dianapolis Chamber of Com­merce. 

kinko•s IN ADDITION : We have trips to Daytona Beach, Florida. the copy center Student Holidays 1-800-724-1555 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 29, 1992 page 9 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
Tragedy reveals strength of ND family 
Whether we would like to think so or not, events over the P,ast several days have proven that there re­ally is a Notre Dame family." Unfortunately, it took a tragic bus accident for some us to learn this reality. 
Notre Dame has always prided itself in the family­like community that exists on campus. Throughoutthe past week the "Notre Dame family" has indeed shown its face. 
In and of itself the attendance at the memorial Mass celebrating the lives of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp is a testament to the concern and caring of the Notre Dame community. Approximately 3,000 people jammed into Sacred Heart Basilica. Of course, not all of these people knew Colleen and Meghan personally, but they attended because there was a feeling of loss 
that hit very close to home. 
In the days following the accident, those at Notre Dame found that the concept of "family" extended well beyond the boundaries of the campus. The Saint Mary's swimmins and diving teams showed their support by attendmg the memorial Mass in their team parkas and also postponed their meet scheduled for Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The South Bend community, often viewed as being at odds with Notre Dame students and activities, showed its concern by rallying around the families and friends of the victims. Many individuals and businesses offered support and services to the swimmer's families. 
The Works hotel offered relatives of the accident victims free rooms over the weekend. Papa John's, Domino's Pizza, Emporium Restaurant and McDon­ald's all donated food to the infirmary over the week­end. These are just a few incidents of the amazingsupport offered by Notre Dame's extended "family" in the South Bend community. 
Flowers, cards and support for the swimmers and their families have roured in from across the country.Former members o the swim teams and other alumni returned to campus for the memorial Mass. Chartered airplanes took members of both the women's and men's swim teams to St. Louis for Colleen's funeral. 
The outpouring of support from all sectors of the Notre Dame community is indicative of one thing: that the Notre Dame family really does exist and that it is not just a slogan in an admissions booklet. It is something of wfiich we can all be proud. 

DOONESBURY 

Stay until the end, basketball fans 
Dear Editor: 
I realize that football is, and probably always will be, the center of the athletic program at Notre Dame. For this rea­son, I was surprised and de­lighted to see such a large crowd at the JACC last Thursday night to cheer the men's basketball team in their attempt to conquer nationally ranked Missouri. 
Throughout the first half, as Notre Dame held on to a solid lead and performed in a way that has managed to surprise a lot of college basketball fans this year, the crowd was excited and supportive of the team's impressive display of talent. Our players left at halftime to deafening cheers and clapping. 
How sad it was that when the basketball team left the arena after the final buzzer 
sounded, they heard no roaring crowd, but only the rustle of jackets and a disgracefully fainter round of applause, echoing through empty bleachers and seats. What happened to the fans who had been so eagerly praising them a mere thirty minutes ago? What was the big rush? 
I fail to understand the ur­gency of escaping the arena, 15 seconds before the end of an incredible athletic contest, after having been there for the first 39 minutes of the game. For what -to miss the rush getting out of the parking lot? Surely these extra ten minutes were helpful. 
Our athletes deserve our support for their efforts not their victories. They play as hard and as well as they can, but for many people, that just doesn't seem to be good enough. Imagine going to the line to take a foul shot with less than a minute left in the game, and being unable to concentrate, not because your fans are cheering so loudly that you can't hear yourself think, but because the seats are emptying faster than you can believe and you feel that none of the eyes in the arena are directed toward you and your teammates on the court. It's not over 'till it's over -why are so many people unable to accept that? 
For those students and fans who remained until the end, I thank you -ten minutes wasn't much to sacrifice for two hours of entertainment and hard work, was it? 
Jennifer Guerin Farley Hall Jan.26,1992 

Loss of classmates is difficult and painful 
Dear Editor: 
Hot, painful tears streamed down my face. In disbelief, I was staring at a Channel 16 news reporter. He stood solemnly in front of an over­turned United Limo bus. A few short hours before, the bus slid and flipped, resting upside down in the median. 
The snow had since covered parts of it. But nothing could hide the pain that bus brought to many of us here at Notre Dame, and at homes in St. Louis and Granger. 
I could not believe the news. My morning had been so per­fect. I slept through Art History, then Calculus. After skipping my Ecology class, things were certainly looking up. Later, I would be going home to see my girlfriend. What could be better? My selfishness quickly dissolved. 
After meeting a few friends outside North Dining Hall, it seemed all that remained was time. Time for me to pack, time for me to run last minute errands. Time was all I had. And yet, I had none. Lunch was not so inviting after hearing about the accident. 
Colleen was the first person I thought about. She is a friend of mine and a very good friend of my roommate. How could this happen? They were so young. 
I have often heard of this 
pain, this emptiness, this loss. However, my life has been blessed. Only one of my grand­fathers has died, and I was too young to remember. Words cannot express the pain. I can only imagine how others feel, their families, their closest friends. 
Nothing can replace the loss of these two friendly young people. But if anything could, it would be the fond memory of each. Colleen, Meghan, we all take comfort in knowing that your souls now rest with the Lord. We will miss you. 
Kerry Colligan 
Stanford Hall 
Jan.27,1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
If YCV'R& UNtUCK'f&NWH 70 t!Vt IN ON/3 OF TH/3 ffl1J 5TA'TES E£ORG/3 BIJ9ft:a5N'TCAU~ THeN YaJ cr::fo./'T/(/o./(WtiJHifT>Q'l~ Bf£NM1931NG. U<.iTE:N 70 lH/3 
PR/351P&NTlAY !TON­IN HIS 011/N twRPS.'" 
t:?3;~~~/ 
I KNOW!A/HER& NEIA/ HAMP­
91/f?£15, I KNOIAJ WHATTH/3 
VA/))&<3 Ot= TH/3 t=AMIU/3'3ARe 
IN Nt/A/HAMPSHIR/3, ANPI 
HOP& /A/13'!<£ PRACTJ(')NG 7HeM
. 
IN TH& /1./HIT/3 HCXJ5& ASA 
FIW!ItY. \ ,\1/....­::71\' 
.. ~ 

NUllHAMPSHIR8 HAS 5T(X){}MOR8 THAN ITS 5H~ OF RAIN. JOB HURTING ANO TH& t=AM/U/35 aJCWfleRIN6 HC¥AJ THCI'R& GOIN6 70 MAKE TH&IR E:NIJ5 M&CT. BUT TH&F&­15 601N6 7V 813 A RAINBOIA/ aJT 7Ht::R&-. THtf?t'5 50/rlff RJNmMtNTAL5 THATARb P/?eT7Y PARN G(){){), 
AN{?IN CONCWSIONtUn;~y THI5... ANI:? TH15U GO TO TH/3 l?f3M()CRAT5 WHO MAYHAV/3 E?ttN 5MAI<T81WGH 70JOIN R07AI<t lW. TH~A NON-PART/5tJ.N­NO, 81fTI RfAUY Me/W7HIS~ THATfFOM TH/3HfAI<TIN 7H!3 
THAT~ THIN$, ATlEA<.iTTHe 
NAYI taJK AT 711/S. 
""'~\II~ 
/;(' 
'Total consistency is an appalling virtue.' 
Lawrence Terner 
Submit, submit, submit, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 



Viewpoint

page 10 Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Individuals should not compromise family needs 

Dear Editor: 
Just a few comments about Laura Gritz's letter (The Observer, Jan. 24) concerning the benefits of the 60's and 70's. 
First, it should be said that Gritz validly points out many of the benefits and successes of the civil rights movement, and the women's movement. Many of the accomplishments of those eras were long overdue. Concerning women she com­ments, "The women of the SO's experienced extreme social pressure to conform to a lim­ited, traditional female role" of putting "the concerns of her husband, home, and children above her own." 
In condemning this pressure Gritz rightly condemns the prohibitions which women faced in pursuing careers as well as outlets for creative and educational expression. On the other hand. there are other attitudes implied in her comments that are harmful. 
Putting the concerns of her husband, home, and children above one's own concerns is not something to be scoffed at, but it is rather something to be admired and encouraged. Likewise, men need to be en­couraged to put wife, home, and children above their own interests. 


Dear Editor: 
So often The Observer is filled with student criticism of the problems in our society: poverty, poor education, lack of character, etc. So often students are quick to claim that they would stand up for their principles when others do not. So often many students talk of a desire to make a difference in the world, yet they are only looking far down the career road before they see a chance to do so. 
As a recent graduate, I would like to challenge all of the NO students and especially the job­hunting seniors to start making a difference now. If you honestly believe in your responsibility to help others of societal pressures or attitudes, then start now. Start with GIFT. 
The GIFT program (Graduates Interviewing For Tomorrow) began last year at NO under Kevin Cavanaugh. It is a program that enables students interviewing for jobs to defer part or all of their accommodation expenses (paid for by the interviewing company) to scholarship and educational programs for low income children. 

The deepest roots of our problems today concern people thinking investment in people is unimportant, and that in comparison pursuing a career, or money, or self-fulfillment is somehow more important. The fact is that family life is crumbling and family life is essential for raising beautiful, confident, good children. 
On the cover of a recent Newsweek was the headline, "The Victims of Divorce." Children are greatly constituted by their family lives, and the effects of childhood basically do much to make people what they are for the rest of their lives. 
The implication of Gritz's comments is a common one and very destructive. As opposed to the fifties there is now the threat of extreme social pres­sure against women devoting themselves to family life. A woman who chooses to have children, to invest herself in them, and to exert her physical, mental, and creative energies in making a home is looked down upon, and this is very destruc­tive, not only to women who choose to do so, but also to so­ciety as a whole. 
In turn, men have to learn that the concerns of wife, children, and the home are the single most important concerns 
It is an opportunity for interviewing seniors to show a potential employer the principles and character for which Notre Dame students are recruited. And most importantly, GIFT works! I know from my own experience. 
Last year I was interviewing with a Fortune 500 envi­ronmental consulting firm. After an on-campus interview, they offered to fly me to Washington D.C. for a second interview, staying in a hotel for $120 a night. While I eagerly accepted the interview, I simply wrote one brief letter to the person arranging my travel plans and explained the GIFT program and asked if the company would be willing to contribute the amount they would have spent on my accom­modations to GIFT while I took the responsibility for finding al­ternate accommodations with local ND alumni. 
The company not only accepted, but took special note of my resume. At each of the four interviews I had that day, the interviewer had heard of my request and applauded the program. GIFT was a great Revolution." She says that the family responsibility in their 

woman "was not allowed the relationships, men are encour­
sexual freedom afforded to aged by the "sexual revolution" 
men." I've recently heard simi­propaganda to continue in 
lar statements in other letters to promiscuity, and thus women 
the editor. This is another case continue to be used, and chil­
of rejoicing in women being dren grow up without fathers. 
able to do something which is A true feminism would 
destructive to anyone who does encourage respect for 
it, regardless of sex. relationships, responsibility, and 
commitment by men to family 
The real point is that men life. The rhetoric of the "sexual and women need to know that revolution" makes life for true sexual freedom is the women worse and not better. ability to give oneself What we desperately need is completely to another person to lift up family life and not de­alone, completely honoring the grade it. Families are for the person with body, mind, and building of people, and nothing spirit, as part of a devoted is more important. So let's pray commitment to love each other for an end to so-called "sexual and nurture a family for life. freedom" and encourage real Let's not exalt the destructive freedom for both men and selfishness, but rather let our women to know real love, self­heroes be the men and women giving, devotion and sacrifice who choose to put people first. for each other, and their 
It's particularly surprising children. that "sexual freedom" is pa­Women should not say, "We raded as a hard won benefit for now have the right to destroy women. It's women who be­ourselves and others with come pregnant, and men who selfishness just as much as often disappear. The woman is you." They should not thus also faced with extreme social spark competition and encour­pressure to have their unborn age men in lovelessness. Both killed. How degrading this is to men and women need to "turn the woman to be used by a man their hearts towards home." in this way! We must see that the whole thing is anti-feminist! Andrew Koehl 
Instead of being held account­Off-campus able and encourage towards Jan.24,1992 
Letter attacked Observer... but didn't answer questions 
Dear Editor: the accusations made against I was surprised to read the HPC, and give us their "side of attack on The Observer (Jan. the story." Instead, they 
27) by Mr. James and Mr. accused The Observer of Roxas, co-chairpersons of irresponsible journalism. HPC. They criticized The The fact remains that HPC Observer for printing opinions uses approximately $200 on the Viewpoint page. worth of dorm money each 

As I recall, The Observer ran week on a suspiciously self­more than one front page indulgent activity, and there story covering the recent are no sensible reasons or events concerning HPC, where excuses for this. I will members of HPC were quoted continue to think very little of at length, and no bias was HPC in their handling of this readily apparent on the part matter until they pass a of the reporter. If members of resolution that they will no HPC have more to say about longer use large amounts of this issue, they should feel dorm funds to feed free to use the Viewpoint Page themselves, and until they to voice their opinions, like stop attempting to censor other members of the Notre criticisms of their Dame community. organization. 
I would have been pleased if Lynn Klunzinger Mr. James and Mr. Roxas had Knott Hall used their letter to talk about Jan.27,1992 

\. 
of life, far more important than anything else. Comments such as Gritz's, if construed wrongly, can serve to elevate selfishness over sacrifice for quality relationships. 
Instead of reJoicmg that women have the opportunity to have the same skewed priorities that many men have, unfortunately, traditionally had, we should exalt those of both sexes who dedicate and sacrifice their lives for family life. 
This relates to Gritz's com­ments concerning "The Sexual 
conversation point and a way for me to realize the character of the company. 
A company that appreciated my commitment to helping others was the company where I wanted to work. I was offered the job within two weeks. I can't say it was definitely be­cause of GIFT, but I do know it certainly did not hurt my chances. 
I personally benefitted from GIFT by staying with an alumni family, not alone in some hotel. Having a contact in the area helped a great deal when I went back to find a place to live too. 
GIFT works for everybody. Companies are looking for employees with character and principle. Educational programs and charities need support from everyone, including graduating seniors. Notre Dame grads have a responsibility to start making a difference now, not just down the road! If you want to partici­pate in GIFT, call Mark La Valle at 283-3520. 
Lisa Mackett Vienna, VA 


Jan.27,1992 


~------~-------------------~--~--------­
Accent 
Wednesday, January 29, 1992 page 11 



I ­



Dr. Dennis Nigro will be receiving the Dooley Award for humanitarian service during halftime at tonight's basketball game against DePaul. 

res 



Alumnus Dennis Nigro uses his medicine to heal unfortunate handicapped children 
John O'Brien 
Rockne's Lovechild 
Beat the February blues with frosty fun 
F 
our years ago, about this same time of year, I went to meet with my freshman advisor. The only thing I can remember about her now was that she was really nice-I mean REALLY nice. 
So nice that I imagined she even smiled in her 
sleep. 
The meeting wasn't all that memorable, 
except that she ended it by warning me about 
the month of February. "February," she said, "is 
cold, dreary and boring. There are no football 
games to break the monotony and it's right at 
that part of the semester where classes start 
getting hard. Many students get extremely 
homesick, too. 
"But if you can make it through February, 
you'll have smooth sailing the rest of the way," 
she said, still smiling. 
After hearing that, I felt uplifted. So uplifted 
that I wanted to jump off the top of the Dome. 
Even though my advisor's views on February 
were accurate, I managed to survive. I 
exercised, ate right and, in what was probably 
my best strategy, got drunk a lot-just kidding, 
Mom. 
Seriously, though, there are many alternative 
activities in which one can participate to help 
beat the February blues. As a community 
service, I have listed them here. 
• 
Make obscene snow sculptures outside of the Administration Building. Imagine the surprise of visitors to the University as they witness Frosty and several of his closest friends violate every rule in du Lac-right there on the God Quad! My personal favorite is to have an underage snowperson carrying liquor WITHOUT SUITABLE PACKAGING! 

• 
Send pizzas to HPC meetings. With all of the recent fuss over food at meetings of the Hall Presidents' Council, wouldn't it be fun to send them over a couple of pepperoni pizzas? But then again, who's going to pay for them? 

• 
Liven up Junior Parents' Weekend. There are many ways to do this. First, get a friend and stand together outside of the Hammes' Notre Dame Bookstore (on the campus). As parents enter the store, say (in a loud voice), "I can't believe Magnum condoms are out of stock! What am I going to do for my SYR?" and then watch the reactions. 


Second, if you have any younger siblings who might happen to be visiting during JPW, send them up to the bar at the cocktail party just to see how well the Alcohol Policy is enforced. I'll pay $1 to anyone over the age of 15 who is carded. 
Finally, any non-juniors who are stuck on campus can have fun (and make money) by selling stories to the parents of juniors who live nearby. They may never speak to you again, but their parents will have new perspectives on them. 
• Spread rumors. What else could be more fun than telling some blatant lie and watching it spread across campus like wildfire? For instance, tell someone that it is "Gang Initiation Week" in South Bend and all the local gangs will be trying to attack Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Or, tell someone that a mass murderer 
dressed as Little Bo Peep will be stalking the 
women of Saint Mary's. Of course, you'll have to 
do better than that because no one would 
possibly buy these rumors. 
Now, I can't guarantee that these methods will 
allow you to make it through the terrible month 
of February without trying to strangle your 
roommate at least once, but you might actually 
have fun while festering in the cold and dreary 
doldrums. 
And if these suggestions don't work at all, you can still get drunk. 
John O'Brien is Accent Editor ofThe Observer. 
His columns appear every third Wednesday in 
Accent. 
By JOHN RYAN 
Accent Writer 

Tonight will be a very special evening for Dr. Dennis Nigro, a 1969 graduate of Notre Dame. 
Nigro will be presented the Alumni Association's Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award for humanitarian service during the halftime of the Notre Dame­DePaul basketball game. 
The award holds special meaning to Nigro, who looked to Dooley for inspiration when he first began studying medicine. "It seemed that this was a regular guy who wasn't beatified by anyone, but yet felt a need both from a personal standpoint and also from the things that Notre Dame taught him: 'Go give back to the community,"' said Nigro. "Tom Dooley was clearly one of my heroes," 
If "Go give back to the community" was the message Nigro learned at Notre Dame, he has certainly employed that slogan to his life and work in the years after his graduation. 
Currently, Nigro supervises the program "Fresh Start Surgical Gifts," which he began in 1986 with a small group of his associates. With the support of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego and the communities surrounding San Diego, Fresh Start has grown and expanded. Today the program embodies over 50 volunteers from the community, and a team of trained medical personnel. 
Fresh Start is a non-profit organization that gives unfortunate children with physical deformities the surgical care needed to correct their defects. The volunteers waive all fees; everything from transportation and room and board to the medicine and lab costs is free of charge. The satisfaction of giving the child a "fresh start" is enough compensation for those involved. 
Nigro got the idea for Fresh Start during his residency in the late 70's as an Assistant Clinical Professor at UC-San Diego and Chief of Plastic Surgery at the Scripps Memorial Hospital in Encintas. There he joined a team of doctors who travelled to Mexico to provide medical care for those who could not afford the expensive surgical procedures. 
It was in Mexico that Nigro realized just how much his skills could do for an unfortunate individual, especially a child. 
Childhood is perhaps the most delicate stage of life; it is where a personality is molded, and self­esteem is acquired. Having a physical handicap opens a child to ridicule from his or her peers, and draws the child into his or her own, private world. 
A child's physical defect may lead to emotional problems, which will cerainly hamper intellectual and social growth. 
Nigro saw that he could put an end to this vicious cycle with his skills in plastic surgery. In healing their physical deformities, Nigro also has helped mend many crippled spirits, and rejuvenate many dejected children's self-esteems. 
Today, Fresh Start accepts referrals from not only the United States and Mexico, but from many other countries as well. Children have come from as far as Rumania to have their handicaps treated. 
The patients receive millions of dollars in care so that they may not have to cope with the problems and obstacles faced by a deformed child. (Referrals should be addressed to Fresh Start at 351 Santa Fe Drive, Encintas, California, 92024). 
Nigro's humanitarian work does not stop with the Fresh Start Program. In 1989 he approached the Notre Dame Alumni Association with the idea of a community service program that would be run through the Association. His request was approved, and the Notre Dame Community Service Program (NDACSP) was formed in the summer of 1991. 
To honor the University's sesquicentennial, the NDACSP has organized the first Universal Notre Dame Humanitarian Week. During the week of April 18-25, alumni clubs across the nation will be giving their time and efforts to their local community or charity. 
. _.;;.
In addition to receiving the Dooley Award, Nigro's Fresh Start program has been named one of President Bush's "Points of Light." But Nigro, much like his idol Dooley, doesn't expect glory or publicity for his charitable works; recognization just seems to gravitate his way. 
"Someday, when I'm 65 years old, I want to look back on my life and see that I made a difference, however large or small, to my fellow man," Nigro -­said. 
He has already fulfilled this wish, and will certainly continue to touch the lives of others. Hopefully many more people will find truth and inspiration in the phrase that has guided Nigro, and will "Go give back to the community." 

I; ., 
-
Accent

page 12 Wednesday, January 29, 1992 



ause
0 
a 
Jeremy Rifkin, hailed as both an environmental crusader and fearmonger, speaks on ecological consciousness 

By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH "The notion (among scientists) from regulatory agencies like the "Humanity now faces the first Accent Writer that man can subjugate and control F.D.A. who "see him, essentially, as truly global environmental crisis in the forces of nature (is a) bankrupt a nuisance, a rabble rouser, a recorded history. In the past few "I'm going to convince all of you idea of 'progress' (that) has led the professional extremist, and, most years, the public has been that you want genetic engineering," whole planet, the whole solar simply, a nut bent on delaying the introduced to the greenhouse said Jeremy Rifkin to a captivated system, to where it is reeling," said work of committed scientists and effect, ozone depletion, acid rain, audience at Lock Haven University. Rifkin. federal officials." and mass species extinction," wrote 
Rifkin, 43, an environr!iental With new discoveries one may "I wish my critics would lighten Rifkin. activist and persistent critic of have to start asking-who should up," said Rifkin, who has written "It is becoming clear that these biotechnology, turned to a young control science? Who should have books, spoken at more than 100 environmental threats have the woman in the audience and the power to evaluate and conferences and meetings in eight potential of affecting the viability of continued, "You want a baby. We're determine the genetic future of the countries, testified before Congress life on earth. Through our talking programming genetic human race? at least five times a year, and industrial way of life, our species is changes at conception. All this is "Congress, the President, the spoken on over 300 college destroying the biochemistry of the hypothetical, it can now be done National Institutes of Health, campuses in an attempt to entire planet," he added. now, you follow me. I'm a doctor-I General Electric?" asked Rifkin. "In generate public interest. know I look like a Jewish grocer 12 years of asking that question, all His supporters are more kind. But Rifkin sees hope in the hands from the Bronx, but I'm a doctor." I get is silence." "No matter what you want to say of concerned citizens of the earth. 
"Do you want a boy or a girl?" he But, according to Rifkin such about him," said molecular "Fortunately, a new asked. questions are vitally important, and biologist Liebe Cavalieri, "it's Rifkin environmental movement is "Right-handed or left?" he public participation in making who has raised all of these emerging to address the global wondered. these decisions equally so. important issues, put them on the environmental crisis," he said. "Taller than average? Shorter?" front pages." "The new ecological consciousness he pestered. "No parliament ever debated the Aside from his work against supersedes national borders and 
The woman changed her mind old technologies-the Industrial biotechnology, Rifkin has ideological differences. While it is and decided to go with what Rifkin Revolution, the petrochemical undertaken a campaign to promote community centered, the called "the crap shoot" for her revolution, the computer an area of interest close to the movement's perspective and hypothetical baby, in Edward revolution," said Rifkin. "The heart of this allegiance is planetary." Tivnan's account in The New York biotech revolution will have a more campus-environmental "Its theme is 'Think Globally, Act Times Magazine. intimate effect on our lives than awareness. Locally," Rifkin said. 
While the option of genetical anything else in history. We can't "Welcome to the Greenhouse Rifkin will on campus today to engineering on the scale described afford the small luxury of a small world of the 21st century," wrote discuss these issues with students above is unrealistic at this time, it elite-making public policy." Rifkin in The Washington Post. of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's is well known that modern science Many scientists, corporate "The year 2035. In New York, College community. has made some startling executives, and Washington palm trees line the Hudson River From noon to 1 p.m. Rifkin will technological advances. bureaucrats disagree with Rifkin. from 125th Street to the Midtown conduct a Fireside Chat in the ISO 
When Tivnan wrote about Rifkin Many are all for technological exit. Phoenix is in its third week of Lounge, for a presentation and in 1988, scientists were close to advances and criticize Rifkin as temperature over 130 discussion in a relaxed curing diseases, including cancer, what "Forbes" called a degrees... Holland is under water. atmosphere. Lunch will be by replacing defective genes using "fearmonger" and "modern-day Bangladesh has ceased to provided. extensive knowledge of the DNA Luddite." exist...decades of drought have From 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. he will give structure. Tivnan also reported that "Evolutionary theory has never turned once fertile agricultural a keynote lecture in the Library efforts were being made to put been healthier," said Harvard lands into parched desert," he Auditorium titled "The Greenhouse human genes into animals and to paleontologist Jay Gould, who continued. Doomsday Scenario," followed by a identify certain deadly diseases by called one of Rifkin's books "a "It is not science fiction," discussion of the ways college genetic markings. cleverly constructed tract of anti­explained Rifkin, "it is based on students can help heal the earth. 
All these new scientic intellectual propaganda current projections by climatolgists The lectures are sponsored by breakthroughs may sound exciting, masquerading as scholarship." and environmental scientists." Student Activities, the Multicultural but to Rifkin this "Biotech According to Tivnan, Rifkin The threat of global warming is a Executive Council, and the Arts and Revolution" is dangerous. encounters a barrage of complaints serious one, according to Rifkin. Letters Council. 
Wednesday, January 29, 1992 page 13
SCOREBOARD 
NBA STANDINGS ---_ NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
• 
EASTERN CONFERtN~~ WALES CONFE:RENCE BASEBALLPatrick Division Atlantic Dlvlalon American Leaguew L Pd rn L10 Streak Home Away Coni w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms ~h CecilNY Rangers
New York 26 15 .634 6-4 Won 3 15-4 11-11 18·11 31 17 2 64 196 164 16-6-1 15-11-1 11-8-0 Fielder, first baseman, and Mark Carreon,Boston 27 16 .628 6-4 Won 2 t8-6 9-10 17·11 Washington 29 16 4 62 212 164 14·8-1 15-8-3 14-8-0 outfielder, on one-year contracts. Philadelphia 21 22 .488 6 6-4 Lost 1 14-7 7-15 13-15 Pittsburgh 25 18 5 55 216 183 10·9-4 15·9-1 13-11·2 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terms ~h Miami 20 23 .465 7 5·5 Won 1 15-6 5-17 15-13 New Jersey 23 16 7 53 177 143 15-7-3 8·9-4 8-9-4 Curtis Wilkerson, Infielder, on a minor leagueNew Jersey 19 22 .463 7 8·2 Lost 1 13-10 6-12 10-17 NY Islanders 17 24 6 40 174 192 10-11·4 7-13-2 7-9-3 

contract ~h Omaha of the American Association Washington 14 27 .341 12 2·8 Lost 6 6-15 8-12 7-18 Philadelphia 14 24 9 37 133 165 9-8-6 5-16-3 4·12·3 and invited him to spring training.
Orlando 11 31 .262 15 112 4·6 Lost 1 7-14 4-17 8-16 Adams Division OAKLAND ATHLETICS-Agreed to terms ~h 
Central Dlvlalon Montreal 31 16 4 66 161 116 19·6-1 12·10-3 18·7·2 Mark McGwire, first baseman, on a one-year 
Chicago 37 6 .860 9·1 Lost 1 21·2 16-4 24·3 Boston 24 19 6 54 172 168 16·7·2 8-12-4 11·8-3 contract. Cleveland 27 13 .675 8112 6·4 Lost 1 17-4 10-9 21·7 Buffalo 19 22 8 46 174 177 13-7-4 6-15-4 7-10-3 SEAffiE MARINERS-Agreed to terms ~h Clint DetroH 24 19 .558 13 7·3 Won 1 13-8 11-1113-13 Hartford 15 23 7 37 138 157 8-9-7 7-14-0 7-12-4 Zavaras and Kerry Woodson, pHchers, on one-yearAtlanta 22 20 .524 14 112 5·5 Won 1 14-6 8-14 10-13 Quebec 12 30 5 29 145 191 12·12·1 ().18·4 6-10-2 contracts. Agreed to terms ~h Mark Grant, pHcher,Milwaukee 19 22 .463 17 2·8 Lost 4 14-5 5-17 12-13 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE and Rod Allen, Infielder, on minor league contracts Indiana 15 28 .349 22 2·8 Lost 4 12·10 3-18 8-17 Norris Division with Calgary of the PacHic Coast League.
Charlotte 12 31 .279 25 3·7 Lost 1 8-13 4-18 8-18 w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms ~h Mke 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Detroit 28 14 6 62 200 156 17-7-2 11·7·4 12·5-2 Jeffcoat, pHcher, on a minOt league contract ~h Midweat Diviaion Chicago 22 18 10 54 166 149 17·6-4 5-12·6 9-8-4 Oklahoma CHy of the American Association and w L Pd rn L10 Streak Home Away Coni St. Louis 21 20 8 50 173 170 15-7-3 6·13-5 7·10-3 lnvHed him to spring training.
Utah 27 17 .614 5-5 Lost 1 17·2 10-15 15-7 Minnesota 20 22 4 44 152 164 13-9-3 7··13-1 9-9-3 
National LeagueSan Antonio 24 18 .571 2 6·4 Won 2 14-5 10-13 15-11 Toronto 14 30 5 33 128 182 9·13-2 5-17-3 6-11·2 
CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms wHh Joe Houston 23 19 .548 3 6-4 Won 1 14·7 9-12 14·9 Smythe Division 

Girardi, catcher, on a one-year contract. Denver 17 24 .415 8 112 4·6 Won 2 14-9 3-15 10-17 Vancouver 28 13 7 63 170 136 15-5-4 13·8-3 15·6-3 CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with AI 
Dallas 13 28 .317 12 112 1·9 Lost 2 8-13 5-15 8-14 Calgary 21 20 7 49 185 169 11·6-4 10-14-3 10-10-2 Newman, Infielder-outfielder, on a minor leagueMinnesota 7 35 .167 19 1·9 Lost 9 5-17 2-18 5-22 Winnipeg 20 22 9 49 152 158 13-10-2 7·12-7 6-i-5 
contract ~h Nashville of the American Association Pacific Dlviaion Los Angeles 19 19 10 48 175 186 10-7-7 9-12-3 10·8·5 and invited him to spring training.
Golden State 26 11 .703 7-3 Lost 1 13-6 13-5 18-8 Edmonton 18 25 7 43 176 196 10·9-3 8·16-4 10-12·4 LOS ANGLES DOGERS-Agreed to terms with Portland 28 13 .683 8·2 Won 3 18·5 10-8 12-9 San Jose 11 34 4 26 125 214 9-12·2 2·22·2 8·14·3 
Dave Anderson, Infielder, on a minor leaguePhoenix 28 15 .651 1 8·2 Won 2 16-3 12-12 18-7 Sunday's Games 
contract wHh Albuqerque of the Pacific Coast 

LA Lakers 25 16 .610 3 7·3 Won 2 14·8 11-10 15-11 Washington 6, Pittsburgh 4 Winnipeg at Pittsburgh. 7:35 p.m. League.Seattle 21 22 .488 8 3·7 Won 1 12-109-12 14-11 Buffalo 5, Winnipeg 2 Boston at Quebec, 7:35p.m. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Terry

LA Clippers 20 23 .465 9 3-7 Lost 3 14-8 6-15 11-15 Montreal 3, Hart1ord 1 St. Louis at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Leach, pkcher, on a minor-league contract wkh 

Sacramento 12 29 .293 16 3·7 Lost 2 9·9 3-20 5-19 Monday's Games N.Y. Rangers at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
Indianapolis of the American Association. 

Monday'• Game DetroH 100, Charlotte 95, OT Late Game Not Included Edmonton at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Agreed to terms with 

New York 97, Utah 80 Atlanta 110, Philadelphia 1 09 Boston 3, Minnesota 2 Wednesday's Games Mke Maddux, pkcher, on a one-year contract. 
Tueaday'a Gamea San Antonio 109, Chicago 104 Chicago at Calgary, (n) Buffalo at DetroH, 7:35p.m. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms ~h 

Late Games Not Included Houston 111, Minnesota 102 Tuesday's Games New Jersey at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
Greg Litton, Infielder, on a one-year contract. 

Boston 98, Washington 87 Portland at Golden State, (n) Minnesota at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Quebec at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Seattle 102, Orlando 97 New Jersey at Sacramento, (n) Washington at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Edmonton. 8:35p.m. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classrtieds

Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Found: A set of keys on a Notre LAFAYETTE SQUARE NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-MICH 7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE KERRY­NOTICES Dame key chain outside the JACC has Hour bed and B-BALL!! ISLAND FROM $199. Light of my life. last Friday night. To claim call x2963 Hive bed unit avialable for next CALL BETH 284·4409. CALL JAMES 277·9249 Fire of my loins. 
year 1-4-3. CUSTOMIZED WORD Call NOW, they won't last long ·TIMMY PROCESSING 232-8256 I NEED 4 LOWER SEAT TICKETS IF BIG BROTHER TOLD YOU
WANTED

Reports/resumes/letters. FOR NO-MICHIGAN BASKETBALL THAT TWO PLUS TWO WAS 271-1618. GAME. FIVE, WOULD YOU BELIEVE? Downtown Mishawaka office for Call Lynn at x4940. If space and time are curved, where 
EARN UP TO $2000/MONTH lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.) did all the straight people come USED TEXTBOOKS! PROCESSING HUD/FHA 900 sq. 11.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a if you're Loving Blind, from? Buy & Sell Books REFUNDS IN YOUR SPARE TIME month. Call272·6877. WANT TO SWITCH 2 THURS. Put Yourself In My Shoes, Pandora's Books AS A U.S GOVERNMENT KEENAN REVUE TIX FOR 2 SAT. 'cause i'm just looking for Write Gl!@/SMC for info: Box 194, 3 blks. from NO TRACER. CALL THE U.S REVUE TIX. CALL MARK X1197 A Heart Like Mine. Notre Dame, IN 46556 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun GOVERNMENT TRACERS Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's 
HOTLINE AT 303·949·2174. 24 families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. HOURS. Ten minutes from campus. Safest Garth Brooks is a minor deity. Monk: selective blindness for 15 
PERSONAL 

VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the neighborhood in area 324-2626. years makes me wonder: what best valentine of all YOURSELF! NOT!! There is nothing minor about can't you see, now?-Michael GLAMOUR portraits by nationally SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. him .... he is a FULL-FLEDGED published model photographer. BEACHES. ENERGETIC TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR Good rates. Save Money. Call me God. Carla, Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287· PROMOTER NEEDED. EARN CAMPUS, SECURITY SYSTEM, for a quote 9:30-6:00, Let's try to find a typewriter and 0613. FREE TRIPS AND CASH. CALL WASHER & DRYER, 4 BDRMS, 9 289·1993. Office near campus. get those applicationsdone, eh? 
CMI AT 1·800·423·5264 MO. LEASE, 4-5 STUDENTS, ADOPTION DEPOSIT REQUIRED. 259-7801 Happy, loving couple wishes to 
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA OR 255-5852 FOR MORE INFO! SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER raise your white newborn with LOST: Stay Where the Action is ....... $40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and VACATIONS! warmth and love. Can provide FAITH IN OUR DORM Oceanfront accomodations I 701 TV Scripts. Fill out simple Jamaica, Bahamas including financial security and education. Looking for 2·3 people to get South Nightclub. {as seen on MTV) "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, FOR SALE airfare, great hotel, and much more Medical/legal expenses paid. house with us for 92·92. from $75.00. 18 and older relaxing at home, beach, vacations. frorn only $599. Buy from the #1 Please answer our prayers by BECKY 2513 DIANNE 2534 welcome. Call today 1·800-633-Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 name you trust for quality vacations. calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800· 7010. Hour Recording 801·379·2925 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED FOUR SEASONS 456·2656. 
Copyright #IN 11 KEB 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 1·800·331·3136. 
87 MERCEDES $100, 65 Dear Rich, ALTERATIONS AND MUSTANG $50. Choose from hey nit DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK thousands starting $25. FREE 24 "MAIL CAMPAIGN, MAIL Thank you for the "noce" personal 259-8684. TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING Hour Recording Reveals Details CAMPAIGN" PRESENTATION BY yesterday. I am sorry the personals 
BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN, 801-379-2929 Copyright # PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA have been so quite lately, but I got 
FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, 1N11KJC AND PLACEMENT SERVICES Info on semester, year, graduate, caught in a revolving door. TYPING AVAILABLE AIR, TRANSFERS. TODAY AT 4:00PM, NOTRE DAME summer and internship programs in The sketches of you in Accent 287·4082. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1·800·426· ROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and yesterday were lovely. Are you sure 
7710. Zenith Portable Laptop, bklit, CENTER. ALL WELCOME. Melbourne. Programs start at those were anatomically correct? I w/batt, 2 3.5" drives, EC, $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. thought you could go to eight 
FAST EASY INCOME! Call Chris x1723 inches. Earn 1OO's Weeekly Stuffing SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona, "MAIL CAMPAIGN, MAIL envelopes. Send self-addressed $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas CAMPAIGN": PRESENTATION BY The Lizard King lives on! Down with With love, Me stamped envelope to: Extra income! $449. '83 Ford FUTURA: 4-door,p.s., PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER the Crustaceans! 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL Best prices & accommodations p.b., rear defog, runs good, AND PLACEMENT SERVICES P.S. It's been a long time since we 60681-1699 guaranteed!!! 1 (800) 724·1555 or looks good. $1,200 080 TODAY AT 4:00 P.M., NOTRE scanned. 
236-5825 (24 hrs.) 287-5713 DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE FAX MAGS Fax your Mac STUDENT CENTER. ALL documents for $1 page. Free WELCOME. campus pick-up of your disk. Call Stacy Jones-
LOST/FOUND 
Keenan Review ticket: start BOOKS$$$-BUYING: Michael at 237·1864. $1 00.00???? That saddens me! $30 -will go higher, call Int. Dynamics, Fluids, Micro Mitch x4153 SELLING: Diff Eq., Solids, SMC·ND SUMMER PROGRAMS Way to act last night George!!!!!!! 
FOUND: set of keys with key El Circuits (EE222), West London (5/20·6/19) and Rome A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days chain on the road between the Civ. books too -Dan 1999 (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland, $279! Panama City $99, Padre War Memorial and Nieuwland Scottland, England, France, $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399
FOR RENT 

around 7:30p.m. on Thursday Germany, Switzerland, and from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 evening 1 /23. Call x2822 to Need any house PAINTING done? Northern Italy. Courses in bio, or Lisa 283-4667 claim. Experienced, quality painting business, education, history, or 1-800·638-6786. 
4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR at reasonable prices. Call Mark at photography, poly sci, Italian, soc. 
RENT FOR 92·93. HURRY, NOT 277-6578. Organizational meeting FEB. 17, LOST: ID case w/ Driver's License, MANY LEFT. SECURITY 6:30 pm, Carroll hall (SMC). For COMING FEB. 8TH !!! ID, Senior Bar Card, and $15. Last SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. info call Prof. Black 284-4460 7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL Wed. in Cushing 287-4989. Nintendo system w/cartridges. Best {office) or 272-3726 (home). 7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD Contact Patricia x3865 offer. Call Paul x1220 CONTEST. Please return, I don't exist ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER without it!!!!!!! HOUSE FOR RENT IN '92/'93 mother seek newborn to join family. 
5BR, 2 BTH. 1800 SO FT. USAIR 58-Worcester MA March 7 We promise your baby love and LOST: Red-Orange silk scarf made washer/dryer, recently remodeled, $125 or make offr. Dan 232-0550 understanding, a good education & "MAIL CAMPAIGN, MAIL into a hairbow. Sunday morning near ND Soon I fun. Supportive grandparents. CAMPAIGN": PRESENTATION BY 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 

between NDH and call232-8256 Legal. Call Bev & Howard PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER 
DAYTONA BEACH ··=$104 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 

Mod quad. COLLECT 914·235·3917. AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
Contact Patricia x3865 MOVING SALE: recliner-$100, TODAY AT 4:00 P.M. NOTRE 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND "'m$f2B 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

Please return. VERY DEEP colonial sofa-$300, coffee table­DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE 
STEAMBOAT ..~ 1122

SENTIMENTAL VALUEIJII FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH $50. Call Jim 233-2588. START MAKING SPRING BREAK STUDENT CENTER. ALL 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. PLANSIll WELCOME. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ..,... 1122 
7 NIGHTS

FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST ... take a Bahamas cruise-6 days on
TICKETS
LOST: GOLD RING WITH JADE LAST + SEC. 684-3778. Grand Bahama lsland+cruise+hotel 
FORT LAUDERDALE "M'$1J6 
7 NIGHTS

STONE. LOST ON JAN 22ND IN only $279 ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ··~sng

ROOM 23 OF HAYES-HEALY. ...make a run for the border-go to CLUB 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY MICH-ND B·BALL TICKETS Cancun. Includes rdtrp air+hotel for If you missed our first 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ,M,IfJB 

VALUE. $REWARD. 219-291·7153. NEEDED. 284-5084. only$ $499 meeting, don't despair! 
PORT ARANSAS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS

CALL LISA AT X4832 ...or chill in Jamaica, man Come to Stepan Center 
nth Annual Need to buy Also: South Padre and Panama City 8-9:30 and we'll start on Thurs. Jan. 30 from 
Celebration! 

TOLL FRH IIFORIIAnON &RESERVATIONS in or around LaF/O'Shag UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232·2794 B-Balltix 
LOST: Lavender glasses case 1 /24 ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL NDvsMICH for $199 and $99 over just for you! C'mon 
1·800·321·5911 

Call #3729. PAUL. Pat#3360 Call LISA 283·4667 CARPE DIEM! 
~ 
~ 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J 
---·--~~--------~---­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
Hawks rally past Sixers; Spurs shock Bulls, 109-104 
\ 
ATlANTA (AP) -The Atlanta Hawks, stung by the loss of Dominique Wilkins for the season with a ruptured Achilles' tendon, rallied from a 16-point deficit to beat Philadelphia 110-109 Tuesday night on Blair Rasmussen's 22­footer with 25 seconds remain­ing. 
Wilkins, after scoring eight of the 33 points he needed to reach the 20,000-point plateau, left midway through the second quarter with a ruptured right Achilles' tendon. Dr. David Apple, the team physician, said Wilkins -named an All-Star earlier in the day -would be out for six to nine months. 

Morlon Wiley gave Atlanta a 108-107 lead with a 3-pointer with 62 seconds left. Armon Gilliam put the Sixers back in front with a basket with 41 seconds remaining. 
After Rasmussen scored the game's final basket, Hersey Hawkins missed a 12-footer in the final second, and Kevin Willis knocked the rebound out of bounds at the buzzer. 

AP Photo Chicago Bulls forward Scottie Pippen, shown here against the Boston Celtics,scored 21 points last night versus the San Antonio Spurs, but it was not enough. The Bulls lost in San Antonio, 109-104. 
-;>o.:;;, ---·,.---..._~._ru_
ltl·--·-.. ---.--....-r'-­
Need 1\. Spo·ing-Break! 
~·~

·""-A. Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas 


Spring Break ' T'he t.ntim,ate Sailing Experience -.;:, [ca11 I..soo..Js9..9sos Totb"U \.,-~ 
_____.. ---------.--J 
The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats and Magicians of ,.aipei 
Thursday and Friday 
February 6 and 7 8:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets $8-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
$10-General Admission Group rates available LaFortune Center Box office 


The loss snapped Philadelphia's five-game win­ning streak and extended the Hawks' home winning string to seven. Wilkins, the NBA's sec­ond-leading scorer with a 28.6 average, watched the end of the game from the bench. 
Duane Ferrell led the Hawks with 23 points and Willis had 18 points and 18 rebounds. Gilliam scored 27 points and Charles Barkley 25 for the 76ers. 
Spurs 109, Bulls 104 

SAN ANTONIO (AP) -San Antonio snapped Chicago's 13­game winning streak behind Terry Cummings' season-high 30 points and David Robinson's 21 points, 13 rebounds and eight blocked shots. 
Michael Jordan led the Bulls with 39 points, including 25 in the second half, while Scottie Pippen finished with 21. 
Pippen's tip-in with 30 sec­onds to play left the Bulls with a 105-104 deficit. But the Spurs scored the final four points of the game, getting a layup from Robinson and Sean Elliott's two free throws. 
The Bulls, trying to match a club-record 14-game winning streak that they established earlier this season, had not lost since Jan. 3 at Milwaukee. 
Pistons 100, Hornets 95, OT 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Dennis Rodman grabbed 32 re­bounds, the most in the NBA since 1988, and his follow shot early in overtime put Detroit ahead to stay against Charlotte. 
Rodman, who raised his league-leading rebound average from 17.4 to 17.8, tipped in a missed shot with 
4:02 left in overtime, and the Pistons never trailed again. 
Rodman had 27 rebounds at the end of regulation, tying a career high. It was the 16th time in the past 25 games Rodman has had 20 or more rebounds. 
In overtime, the Hornets' Larry Johnson was called for an offensive foul with 41 seconds left and Charlotte trailing 96­
95. Isiah Thomas came back with an 18-foot jumper to put the Pistons ahead by three with 21 seconds left. 
Johnny Newman's 3-point shot bounced off the back of the rim. 
Joe Dumars paced the Pistons with 20 points. Johnson had 19 for the Hornets. 
Celtics 98, Bullets 87 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) Reggie Lewis, selected earlier in the day to play in his first All­Star game, scored 20 points as Boston handed Washington its sixth consecutive loss. 
Lewis scored six points in the opening four minutes of the fourth quarter to stake the Celtics to a lead they never lost. Boston, playing without injured stars Larry Bird and Kevin McHale, got 17 points apiece from Ed Pinckney and Sherman Douglas in winning its sixth game in seven tries. 
Harvey Grant had 19 points and Pervis Ellison 18 points and 14 rebounds for the Bullets, who scored only 14 points in the fourth quarter. 
Washington led 73-72 enter­ing the final period, but made only two of its first 10 shots. 1\vo free throws by Lewis gave Boston a 78-77 lead, and his layup made it 80-77. 
SuperSonics 104 Magic 97 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP)-Eddie Johnson scored a season-high 39 points, including two baskets and a critical steal in the final minute, leading Seattle over Orlando and snapping a four­game losing streak. 
Johnson scored 13 of the SuperSonics' final 17 points to give coach George Karl his first victory since taking over the team three games ago. 
There were 12 lead changes in the fourth quarter. Scott Skiles' 15-footer with 57 sec­onds remaining put the Magic up 97-96, but Seattle scored the last six points to win the game. 
Johnson hit a short jumper to give the Sonics a 98-97 lead with 45 seconds left, and 14 seconds later he stole a pass and drove for a layup. 
Nick Anderson led Orlando with 27 points, while Skiles had 22 and Terry Catledge 20. Ricky Pierce scored 23 points for the SuperSonics. 


% 



12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.00% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 

Independent from the University of Notre Dame Wednesday, January 29, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Indiana, Oklahoma State win; Syracuse falls, 87-73 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Calbert Cheaney scored 23 points and No. 4 Indiana won its 13th straight game, routing Purdue 106-65 on Tuesday night. 
The first-place Hoosiers (15-2 overall, 6-0 Big Ten) gave Gene Keady his worst loss to Indiana in 12 years as Purdue coach. 
Purdue's Woody Austin, the Big Ten's second-leading scorer with a 22.4 average, was held to 15. His 3-pointer in the final seconds averted the Boilers' biggest loss ever, 44 points to Illinois in 1948. 
Line Darner scored 17 of his 19 points in the second half to lead Purdue. 
The Hoosiers scored a season­high 106 points, hitting 65.5 percent (19-of-29) in the first half. 
Damon Bailey finished with 15 points and Greg Graham added 13 as the Hoosiers quickly blew apart Purdue's game plan of mixing outside shooting and post play. 
The Boilermakers (11-7. 3-3) never challenged after a 10-10 tie on a basket by Matt Painter. 
Bailey launched a 14-2 spurt with two straight baskets. Eric Anderson had five points in the run as the Hoosiers led 22-12 with 9:40 remaining in the first half. 
Coming off a weeklong rest since beating Michigan, Indiana's defense forced 13 turnovers and held Purdue to 10-of-23 shooting in the first half. 
Indiana built a 51-24 lead with a 22-5 run over the final six minutes before halftime. Graham scored eight points and Bailey six. Keady was called for a technical with three seconds to play and Graham hit both free throws. 
Things worsened for the Boilermakers when Indiana's Alan Henderson scored 11 sec­onds into the second half and Purdue immediately called a timeout. 
Darner hit two 3-pointers and Austin added four points in the next two minutes as Purdue pulled to 59-34. 
Cheaney keyed a 22-7 run with eight points and Bailey added five as the Boilermakers hit just three baskets over the next eight minutes and Indiana led 81-41 with 10:34 left in the game. 

Oklahoma State 64, SMU 53 
DALLAS (AP) -Undefeated Oklahoma State got an un­pleasant surprise, but the third­ranked Cowboys showed they can survive an off-night. 
Byron Houston scored 13 of his 17 points in the second half Tuesday night as the third­ranked Cowboys collected a hard-earned 64-53 victory over Southern Methodist. 
By winning, the Cowboys be­came only the third Big Eight Conference team ever to sweep its non-conference games. 
SMU sprang a 2-3 zone that slowed the Cowboys, who earned their 19th consecutive victory while the Mustangs dropped to 8-9 overall. 
"SMU surprised us with the zone and we didn't attack it well at all," OSU coach Eddie Sutton said. "We did a better job in the second half but it was smart of (SMU coach ) John Shumate to play zone against us." 
Sutton said OSU had trouble getting the ball to Houston. 
"Houston didn't play as well as normal but we expect so much of him," Sutton said. "He had 17 points on seven shots. That's not bad." 
Houston said "SMU tried to shut us down on the inside. It was frustrating going against their zone. We finally hit some outside shots and it opened things up." 
OSU completed its non-con­ference slate with a 16-0 mark. Only Missouri in 1973 and Kansas in 1990 had gone un­beaten in non-Big Eight play. 
''I'm pleased with that," Sutton said. "It was one of the goals we had. Our seniors wanted that. Only two other teams have done it." 
SMU troubled OSU with the zone but the powerful Houston, who averages 21 points, man­aged to shake free just enough to hurt the game Mustangs. 
"Houston is strong and pow­erful and he's a lottery pick for sure," Shumate said. "He finally beat us but we gave them trouble for a while. 
"We hadn't played zone in a long time. We knew nobody could match up against Houston if we went to a man defense. We had a chance to beat them." 
Randy Davis scored 12 points and Sean Sutton and Bryant Reeves had 10 apiece points in the second-lowest scoring game of the year for the Cowboys. 
Mike Wilson scored 17 points and Tim Mason added 13 for the Mustangs before a crowd ·or 8,081 fans. 
"It was a physical game and Oklahoma State was more physical than Kansas," Wilson said. "We knew the only way we could stay with them was to play zone. We almost did it." 
Providence 87, Syracuse 73 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) ­Michael Smith hit 6 of his 23 points from the foul line in the final 1:36 as Providence used a late 15-3 run to upset No. 12 Syracuse 87-73 on Tuesday night·in a Big East game. 
The Friars (10-10, 2-6) led just 72-70 with 2:24 left before the Orangemen went cold from the field and began fouling. Syracuse (14-3, 6-3) got only one more basket, a 3-pointer by Adrian Autry, while missing six times from long range. 
Providence sank six straight free throws for a 78-70 lead before Autry's 3-pointer, then· scored the game's last nine points. 

Essensa, Pens shut out Jets; Lemieux reinjures back 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Bob Essensa stopped 38 shots for his fourth shutout of the season Tuesday night as the Winnipeg Jets beat the slumping Pittsburgh Penguins 4-0. 
Essensa recorded his 1Oth shutout in 143 career NHL games. He faced 18 shots in the first period and went up against six power plays. 
Pittsburgh center Mario Lemieux left the game after one period complaining again of back spasms. He has missed seven games this season with back problems, the most recent stretch coming from Jan. 4-12. He had played four games since then, including three in four days. 
The Penguins failed on six power-play chances and have missed on their last 16 oppor­tunities in the last three games. The defending Stanley Cup champions are 3-7-1 in their last 11 games and 1-4 in their last five home games. 
Flyers 3, Capitals 2 
PHILADELPHIA {AP) -Pat Murray's first goal of the season snapped a first-period tie and sent the Philadelphia Flyers to a 3-2 victory over the Washington Capitals. 
The win ended a four-game losing streak for the Flyers. 

Philadelphia is unbeaten in 10 of its last 11 games at home (5­1-5). 
Philadelphia had struggled to a 2-8-3 record since its 4-3 overtime win-against Washington on Dec. 22. The Flyers entered the game 10 games below .500 for the first time since March 9, 1972. 
The Flyers improved their league-worst divisional record to 5-12-3 in the Patrick. 
Bruins 4, Nordiques 2 

QUEBEC (AP) -Vladimir Ruzicka broke a tie with 6:21 left and added an empty-net goal in the final minute to lead the Boston Bruins to a 4-2 vic­tory over the Quebec Nordiques. 
It was the second game-win­ning goal in as many nights for Ruzicka, who has 26 goals this season and has notched eight in his last eight games. 
The Bruins have been as hot as Ruzicka recently, fashioning a 7-1-1 record in their last nine games. 
All the other scoring had come in the first period, with Quebec defenseman Dan Lambert tying it 2-2 with 1:02 to play in the period. 
Stars 4, Whalers 3 HARTFORD, Conn. {AP) ­Neal Broten scored a short­
handed goal with 8:17 left as Minnesota overcame a three­goal deficit to beat Hartford 4­3, extending the Whalers' win­less streak to nine games. 
Dave Gagner scored twice, in­cluding the tying goal 1:27 into the third peirod, and Ulf Dahlen once as the North Stars ended their three-game winless streak (0-2-1). 
The Whalers are 0-6-3 in their last nine games, including five one-goal losses. The other came Sunday, a 3-1 loss at Montreal. They now go on a trip out west -where they've never fared well -trying to end _a seven-game road losing streak. 

i ~
THIS FRIDAY 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
~ ~ 

SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
SUPPORT YOUR HALL'S TEAMS 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 31 8:00PM -4:00AM 


PORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSS OODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOO FUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUN 
$1.00 DONATION AT THE DOOR 
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 



page 16 The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
NBA All-Star teams selected 
Mutombo, Worthy and Pippen head list of reserves 
NEW YORK (AP) -Dikembe Mutombo. the Denver Nuggets' highly celebrated rookie, will be the only first-year player in the NBA's 42nd All-Star game Feb. 9 at Orlando. 
The 7-foot-2 Mutombo, the first rookie chosen to play in the All-Star game since San Antonio's David Robinson in the 1989-90 season, was one of 14 reserves named Tuesday by the league's head coaches. 
Mutombo, who will be on the West team, leads all rookies with 18.5 points and 13.3 points per game, and ranks third in the league in rebounds and eighth in blocked shots with an average of 2.63 per game. 
Also selected as reserves for the West team were Otis Thorpe and Hakeem Olajuwon of Houston, Jeff Hornacek and Don Majerle of Phoenix, James Worthy of the Los Angeles Lakers and John Stockton of Utah. 
Picked for the East team were Scottie Pippen of Chicago, Reggie Lewis of Boston, Dennis Rodman and Joe Dumars of Detroit, Dominique Wilkins of Atlanta and Brad Daugherty and Mark Price of Cleveland. 
In addition ot Mutombo, those making their first All-Star appearances will be Lewis, Thorpe, Hornacek and Majerle. 

Wilkins, Worthy and Olajuwon will each be making their seventh All-Star appearances, the highest total of all the reserves. 
Previously chosen in fan bal­loting as starters for the West were guards Magic Johnson of the Lakers and Clyde Drexler of Portland, Robinson at center, and forwards Karl Malone of Utah and Chris Mullin of Golden State. 
With Johnson retired after having tested HIV positive, NBA commissioner David Stern pre­viously named Golden State's Tim Hardaway, who finished No. 3 among West guards in the fan balloting, to the team. That will give the West 13 players instead of the usual 12. 
The East starters will be guards Michael Jordan of Chicago and Isiah Thomas of Detroit, center Patrick Ewing of New York, and forwards Charles Barkley of Philadelphia and Larry Bird of Boston. 
Only one team -Detroit ­will have three players in the game. Those teams with two each will be Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Golden State, Houston, the Lakers, Phoenix and Utah. Six other teams will have one player each, and 12 teams will not be represented. 
Stockton.is the league's assist leader with an average of 14 per game -the only player in the league in double figures. Rodman is the NBA's No. 1 re­bounder, averaging a career­high 17 .4, and Price is the top free-throw shooter at .955 per­cent. 
Among the notable players missing are Boston's Robert Parish, a nine-time All-Star in the past 10 years; Phoenix's Tom Chambers, MVP in the 1987 All-Star game; Atlanta's Kevin Willis, the No. 2 re­bounder, and three of the league's top 15 scorers-Ricky Pierce of Seattle (No. 9, 23.2 points). Sacramento's Mitch Richmond (No. 11, 22.9) and Indiana's Reggie Miller (No. 13, 21.6). 
The coaches will be Phil Jackson of Chicago for the East and Don Nelson of Golden State for the West. 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 




Look Here!! 
You can get the .. Best Pizza in Town .. at ..their.. price. 
For a limited time if you use a "Domino's" or Papa John's coupon you can get our pizza at their price. Order now, this offer is too good to last. 
Not valid with any other offer. Valid for dine in, carry out and delivery. For delivery on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Campus call 232-2499 must show student /_D. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Late Night lymp cs playing schedules will be posted ?~tstde the RecSports office Thursday at 1 p.m. LNO reps may ptck up a copy of the schedule after 1 p.m. Thursday at RecSports. 
•. •Attention all rowers. the first general meeting of the yearwill be held on Wednesday, January 29 in room 120 Cushing Hall at7':30 p.m. New members are welcome. Novice practice will begin this Friday at 4:30 at the J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. 
•Hapk.ic:fo/Tae Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.~7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions. call Sean at 283-3457. 
liTh. opening ceremonies for the AFROTC Basketball to .... ···.· ... twill take place on Saturday, February 1 at 7:30p.m. in the J \C. The tournament which will include teams from 
~hixut.the Midwest,wUl.conclude with the championship 
a,t.l2.p.m. on Sunday, February 2. 
he Tae Kwon Do Club will be having practice during the 
'n.g times for the spring semester: Monday and Wednesday
P<ll1.· and Thursday 8:30~10 p.m. in the fencing gym of the 
yquestions, call Lisa at 283-4852. 
re Dame RUgby: There will be a meeting on Tuesday, February 4, at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Center for anyone interested in 
?i.Qi'tlg•.No experience or pads necessary. For all past members. practices are being held every Tuesday and Thursdayat 9 p.m. at Irtgi;M~~.We will be using SACS, so remember to bring them. 
Wk::~·=······················· 
•The Notre Dame Ski. team will be taking deposits for the ~prlJ}gbreak trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming on tonight at 7:30 p,lll,, i~. ro{)lll, 118 of Nieuwland Science Hall. Anyone interested in t)'J~. triP shquld ll,ttend this meeting. Questions, call Bob Reich or ChrisWoodsat 277~7089; 


No, Rob, You're Not 1, 
W©\!ll~rr~ ~n ~ 
Happy B-Day! . . Your Bro, Andy 
.r-,~. +'···... \ . ~ 
Save at Walgreens 
SOFT CONTACT LENS REPLACEMENTS 
Best brands. Really low prices. Everything you want in soft lens replacements. Even fashion tints. • Bausch & Lomb • Ciba Vision • Johnson & Johnson • Cooper Vision 
• Barnes-Hind • American Hydron 

Special! 2 Free Lenses 
Disposable Contact Lenses Only $4200 
Set of 14 lenses 
Now thru February 14 you get not 12 but 14 lenses Tor 
h~~.~... 
0:!:"-r'C::J.!l':..t 
• !X)r>C()Nt~t!'>o.'ol-.. 
just $42.00. Save on See­auence, Acuvue, NewVues. 
Wolgreens of South Bend 
6323 st11te Rd 23, 277-811313110 Llncolnw11y W. 233-4685 837 Ironwood 232-9540 1147 E. lrelllnd 299-0154 


VVednesday,Janua~29, 1992 The Observer page 17 
D.C. faithful hail to their Super Bowl Champions 
Fielder signs one year, $4.5 million contract with Tigers 
THIS FRIDAY 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
FRIDAY OPEN SKATING 
8:00pm -1 0:30pm 
SKATE RENTAL 50 CENTS 
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
WASHINGTON (AP) Thousands of men and women shrieked, waved their fists, danced. sang and stomped in the mud near the U.S. Capitol on Tuesday to pay homage to the Super Bowl champion Washington Redskins. 
By police estimates, about 75,000 fans gathered on the National Mall for the rally or­ganized to give the team its of­ficial welcome home. The Redskins defeated the Buffalo Bills 37-24 in Minneapolis on Sunday. 
People dressed in burgundy and gold caps, scarves, T-shirts and sweat shirts sneaked their kids out of school, took long lunch breaks and canceled other plans to attend the rally. 
"We came out because we're diehard Redskins fans. We would have come even if it rained," said Margaret Chatman, 35, of Silver Spring, Md. "I've been to previous Super Bowl victory events in the rain." 
"I've been a Redskins fan since I was six months old, but it's also nice to see people get together and unite over some­thing for a change," said Dwight Dickinson, 34, of Washington. "Usually everyone is all over everyone else's back." 
The crowd made it clear they did not come to listen to politi­cians. 
Before team members spoke, speeches by D.C. Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly and congressional delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton were interrupted by shouts of "We want Joe! We want Joe!" from fans who wanted to hear from coach Joe Gibbs. 

"I take pride in the fact that we have the team that brought home the Super Bowl cup," said Kelly, who proclaimed the day Washington Redskins Day. 
"The Redskins have given new meaning to the words, "national defense," Norton said. 
Gibbs and several players were cheered as they were in­troduced. The cheering turned to screaming as the players held the Super Bowl trophy up for everyone to see. 
"I just hope you've enjoyed this season as much as we have," said wide receiver Art Monk. 
Eight Redskins, including Supf:)r Bowl MVP Mark Rypien were not at the rally. They were in Hawaii preparing for this weekend's Pro Bowl. 
The only solemn note came when Gibbs called for a mo­ment of silence for the late Glenn Brenner, a popular TV sportscaster who died of a ma­lignant brain tumor earlier this month. 
"I know one thing -Glenn would have wanted us to have fun today," Gibbs said. 
Not everyone at the rally was a longtime, rabid Redskins fan. 
''I'm a diehard Vikings fan; but this was my only chance to see a Super Bowl victory cele­bration," said Greg Schmitz, 24, who recently moved from Minnesota to Washington. 
''I'm a recently converted diehard Redskins fan," said 
David Anderson, 25, also a Minnesota native. "If I'd stayed with the Vikings, I might never have been able to cheer a Super Bowl winner." 
Timothy Molsell, 38, of Washington, said he came for the sake of his 7 -year-old son, Timothy Jr., who got to take a day off from school. 
"He's a Redskins fan, he watched the Super Bowl, and I came for him more than any­thing else," Molsell said. 
Except for a little pushing in the part of the crowd nearest the stage, police reported few problems. 
Authorities had estimated a crowd of as many as 200,000 for the rally. 
No arrests or injuries were reported. 

NEW YORK (AP) -Cecil Fielder agreed to the largest single-season contract in base­ball history on Tuesday, while Mark McGwire took a rare pay­cut for a player in salary arbi­tration. 
Fielder, who had 95 homers and 265 RBis during the past two seasons, settled with the Detroit Tigers at $4.5 million. He had asked for an arbitration record $5.4 million while Detroit had offered $3.2 million. 
According to Fielder, Tigers president Bo Schembechler pushed for a one-year deal in recent days. 
"He was very adament about talking to my agents all of a sudden," Fielder said. "He felt that a deal definitely needed to be worked out. He started feel­ing, I think, a little bit of pres­sure from the people of Detriot." 
The deal, which makes Fielder No. 10 on the salary list by average annual value, tops the previous high for a single­season contract, Nolan Ryan's $4.4 million 1992 salary with the Texas Rangers. Now, Fielder and the Tigers will attempt to negotiate a multiyear contract. 
"Bo Schembechler was talk­ing to myself and my agent and that was the main topic, trying to figure out how they were go­ing to be able to work out a long-term contract," Fielder said. "And it's basically, a situ­ation where the Detroit Tigers in the past have never really given out, per se, a lot of money to top players, so, you know ­Kirk Gibson, Lance Parrish and Jack Morris -all those people have left." 
Fielder, 28, is eligible for free agency after the 1993 season. In 1991, he hit .261 with 44 homers and 133 RBis. 
"We wanted to avoid any fur­ther to-do on either side," Tigers general manager Jerry Walker said. "That's the main thing we tried to get done." 
Six other players in arbitra­tion agreed to one-year con-' tracts Tuesday, leaving 102 remaining. McGwire saw his salary decrease from $2,875,000 to $2.65 million, halfway between his request for $2.85 million and the Oakland Athletics' offer of $2.45 million. 

McGwire hit .201 with 22 homers and 75 RBis last sea­son. A year ago, the only cut in arbitration was taken by Dodgers infielder Jeff Hamilton. 
In other signings, reliever Mike Maddux and San Diego settled at $510,000, a $400,000 raise. Pittsburgh outfielder-first baseman Lloyd McClendon agreed at $465,000, a $190,000 raise. 
Outfielder Mark Carreon, ob­tained by Detroit last week in a trade with the New York Mets, settled at $355,000, a raise of $140,000. Catcher Joe Girardi and the Chicago Cubs agreed at $300,000, a raise of $75,000. And late in the day, San Francisco infielder Greg Litton agreed to a one-year contract. 
Meanwhile, Kansas City agreed to a minor-league con­tract with free agent infielder Curtis Wilkerson, who would get a $200,000 major-league deal if he makes the team. 
Seattle agreed to a minor-
league deal with pitcher Mark Grant, who would get $250,000 if he makes the team, and Texas agreed to a minor-league deal with pitcher Mike Jeffcoat, who would get a $200,000 big­league deal if he's on the open­ing day roster. 
Cincinnati agreed to a minor­league contract with infielder-outfielder AI Newman, who would get a $400,000 major­league contract if he makes the team. Relief pitcher Terry Leach agreed to a minor-league deal with the Montreal Expos and former Los Angeles in­fielder Dave Anderson agreed to a minor-league contract with the Dodgers. 

AP Photo Oakland first baseman Mark McGwire, shown here in1990,settled with the Athletics on a one-year contract in which he took a pay cut. 
~~
r--\_...r.~~ -·
';Turtle -~CreeK 
-----r--------~ 

Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1 &2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 

Do you recognize this person? 
Hint: She turned 21 on 12-31-91. 
Willi Ill oar love, Mam, D.., Bl, Billy, Tom, PiliP, Maggie, Kite, Joey, Plb'Jc.lq, 111'111 -IIIII of 
Cl...~ 

~------------------------------------------------~--~--------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
Tyson's rape trial underway in Indy SMC hoops in action tonight 
• 
grin. til I was 23," he said. By EILEEN MCGUIRE "Janet has been hurting a lit­INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Young Back in the gym, a couple of One of his proudest moments Sports Writer tle bit and she's been playing so 
much," stated coach Don

men go to Knuckleheads to boxers with big hearts are dis­was losing to Bert Cooper -he punch bags and each other -appointed in Tyson, who at age was stopped in the eighth Speed, teamwork and en­Cromer. "We need to give her a and dream. Back in his teens, a 20 was the youngest man ever round. On Nov. 23, Cooper durance will be the keys to suc­little rest. Janet can hit and street tough named Mike Tyson to wallop his way to the world knocked down heavyweight cess for the Division III Saint when she's on, she's tough," he did the same in a gym above heavyweight title. If convicted champion Evander Holyfield Mary's basketball team ( 4-7), explained. the police station in Catskill, of rape, his boxing career could before being stopped in the sev­when the Belles host Division I Libbing is aware that scoring 
N.Y. be over and he could be sen­enth round. Northeastern Illinois tonight at average is less than what she is 
A decade later, while guys tenced to 63 years in prison. Although under indictment, 7 p.m. used to. with big dreams work out at "It's a shame he's not a better Tyson was scheduled to fight The past two seasons against "My shooting will come 
the Golden Eagles Saint Mary's along," she stated. "Right now,

Knuckleheads at the corner of role model for kids," 265-pound Holyfield Nov. 8 in a bid to re­24th and Delaware, Tyson Anthony Wood, of New York, gain the title he lost to James has been successful. In the I'm trying to get the ball to the 
1989-90 season, Saint Mary's person who will put it in the

sweats figuratively in an impos­said after a workout in what "Buster" Douglas on Feb. 11, ing edifice 2 1/2 miles away on was once a family residence. 1990. The fight fell through defeated Northeastern in an bucket." Market Street. Fellow boxer Kenneth Kidd, a when he suffered a rib cartilage overtime victory 85-82. Last 
For many, the City-County middleweight from Jackson, injury in training. season, the Belles won by a slim The Belles are looking for­Building is not a house of Tenn., nodded in agreement Promoter Don King said Tyson margin of one point. ward to playing tonight against dreams, but of hopes. during a discussion next door to is doing road work with the "We're expecting a tough the Division I school. 
Inside, Tyson is on trial on the gym in the office of pro­expectation that he will one day game," explained junior center "It's a good challenge for us," charges of raping an 18-year­moter Fred Berns. fight Holyfield for the Julie Snyder, "but our intensity commented Cromer. "Playing a old Miss Black America contes­"Him being in the position he undisputed championship. is up because of our last win." Division I team means playing tant at his hotel suite on July was in, he should have carried Tyson won his first piece of The Belles conquered Hope kids whoare bigger and faster. 
College last Saturday, 80-62. This gives us an opportunity to19. himself better," Kidd said. the heavyweight title Nov. 22, 

Marion County Superior Court "He still has a lot of Bedford­1986, about a year after the During that game, Catherine see what we need to work on." Judge Patricia J. Gifford set Stuyvesant and Brownsville in death of Cus D'Amato, his legal Restovich lead in the scoring Tuesday as the deadline for him," suggested Wood, refer­guardian and boxing teacher. with 29 points while injured Northeastern holds five re­picking 12 jurors and four al­ring to the tough sections of "I feel if D'Amato was still forward Janet Libbing con­turning letterman with two re­ternates. But the process must Brooklyn, whose streets Tyson alive, he would be different," tributed 12 points and 11 re­turning starters. The Golden 
bounds. Eagles' center, Pam Osterbrink

continue Wednesday because roamed until he was sent to re­Kidd said. "J met Mike in 1984 only 11 of 16 needed had been form school at age 12. at a regional qualification led the team in scoring last year seatHd when court adjourned. Wood, 26, who has a 14-2 tournament for the Olympic Saint Mary's possesses a with 354 total points. Currently 
Tyson. 25, got off to a stum­record, took his time getting Trials. He was just a regular strong team, which ranks a junior, Osterbrink also leads bling start before his second into the ring. guy. He was nice. He had a soft highly in many NCAA Division the team with 248 rebounds on 
day in the second-floor court­"I loved boxing for a long voice." room. He tripped as he went up time, but I didn't get the Tyson still talks softly, but his the stairs. His reaction was a courage to walk into a gym un-actions speak loudly. 
Women's hoops set to take on MCC foe Detroit 
Observer Staff Report Gomez would be out the rest of years in the MCC, the Irish had 
the season with a torn anterior a 43-3 mark, but so far this 
The Notre Dame women's crueiate ligament. season, they are 1-2. basketball team looks to end a Gomez, who will undergo Behind Notre Dame in the three-game losing skid tonight surgery in the next couple of league standings are the Lady at 5:00 p.m., as the Irish take weeks, was averaging 4. 7 Titans (10-8, 1-3). Detroit has on Detroit Mercy at Coho points per game in the last relied on the talents of three Arena. minute of ND's 77-63 loss to frontcourt players, Patrice 
Notre Dame (4-11) suffered Butler last Thursday night. Martin (14.3 ppg, 4.8 rpg). some bad news this weekend The loss against the Bulldogs Heather Longar (12.8 ppg, 6.1 when it was diseovered that highlighted Notre Dame's woes rpg) and Stacy Kraiza (10.5 freshman guard Audrey this season. In their first three ppg, 8.5 rpg). 
III categories. Among these the year. Returning forward rankings, the Belles are cur­Debbie Pozdol is second to rently ninth in scoring offense, Osterbrink in both points and fourth in 3-point field goals rebounds 284 and 192 made per game and eighth in respectively. field-goal percentage. In addi­"I hope we can keep the posi­tion, junior center Kim Holmes tive attitude from the last is tenth in the division for field game." stated Restovich. "We goal percentage (50%). Libbing need to keep up the intensity is third for 3-point percentage and not fall into the traps of the (50%) and Restovich is ranked other team." fifth in the same category at Libbing agrees with 32%. Restovich. 
Libbing, who has been ''I'm sure we'll have a good playing at less than 100 carry over. We worked together percent, leads the team in total against Hope. That was a notch points with 175, while in our belts which shows us Restovich trails closely with that we can play and defeat a 
171. good team," stated Libbing. 

SOPHOMORE SIBLING WEEKEND SIGN-UP 
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY IN NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS DURING LUNCH AND DINNER 
SECURE A PLACE FOR YOUR 12-15 YEAR OLD BROTHER OR SISTER FC)R A MERE $20 D EPOSI11 
SOPHOMORE SIBS IS APRIL 3-5 
QUESTIONS?? CAI.I. mE SOPHOMORE ClASS OFFICE AT 239-5225 
I I 
l 
CALVIN AND HOBBES M~ 1-DMt.'NOI<K  
I OOtH ll-\llllk 1\-\ll.T'S FP-11<!  n= II DOE'SI-\T Th¥:E 1"1-\J\1 \ill{(, TO 00, WI-\~ S\\C).)LD I 1-\i>..'IE \0 Sit>.~ It{ liN IUM r..\.L 1\-\t>..T liME?  Mike Wallace interviews the Devil  


Wednesday, January 29, 1992 The Observer 
page 19 

CROSSWORD 

-
12 Terrifying 15 Walter ----Disney 16 Peasants of India 21 Khartoum's river 25 University in New 
York 27 /l.rrogant 29 As well 33 I: Ger. 34 Like a play 36 Fool ish -, 
famous horse 37 Ocean b1azes (2 wds.) 
Never leave a paisley shirt near water. 

39 -languages 40 Biblical brother 42 Post-season foot-
LECTURES
ball "team" 43 "West Side Story" character Wednesday44 Shoot a TV closeup 4 p.m. "Conducting an Effective Mail Campaign" Paul 
( 2 wds.) 

Reynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Ser­
45 Apes, for short 46 Latent 
vices. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Center. ©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8814 47-cow 4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Star-products on 53 Arias Nilpotent Orbits," William Graham, Massachusetts Institute of 
54 ----gliding
32 Legal right Technology. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by 
57 With it
35 African villages DOWN

ACROSS 59 Sum, esse, --Department of Mathematics. 
38 Yellowish pigment 

1 Its capital is 7 p.m. NeXT User Group Meeting, "Report on NeXTWorld
1 Polo division 41 Home of Parmenides 
8 Treb1 e symbo 1 43 Deification Zagreb EXPO." Room 210 Computer Cluster, Computer/Math Building. 2 Bullied
(2 wds.) 48 Bargain Sponsored by OCU.
3 Kind of motive

13 Press -49-a soul MENU 7 p.m. Lecture, "Uniting the Black Race to Move Forward into 
4 ~launa­

14 Pri nee or 
5 Immanuel -the 90's," La Francis Rodgers-Rose. Room 127, Nieuwland
mountain 
17 Navigation devices 50 Church society or 6 Miss Williams Notre Dame Science Building. Sponsored by 1992 Minority Student 18 With dander up oven brand 7 Curriculum vitae Chicken Fried Steak Affairs/BACC.
8 "Fire when ready,

19 Consumed 51 --CIO Spaghetti & Meatballs 7 p.m. Lecture by Jeremy Rifkin, author of "101 Ways to Save
20 Noise from nature 52 Ending for concert 
out of control Cheese Enchiladas 
9 Went the Earth." Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by MEC,
22 South American 53 Like a diehard 
10 Like Pinocchio Baked New Zealand Whiting with Herbs 
resort 55 You: Ger. Student Activities and Student Government. 
11 Suffix for differ

23 A.L. city (abbr.) 56 Phony one 24 Ex-boxer Griffith 58 Sea off Aus tra1 i a Saint Mary's Thursday25 Room to swing -60 Heavenly 
Stuffed Baked Fish with Newburg sauce 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "Humanitarian Intervention:
26 Novelist Murdoch 61 Office terms A Legal, 
Fried Shrimp 
28 Immovably per-62 Little girl ingre-Political and Moral Analysis," Kurt Mills. Conference Room 
Fried Clam Strips 
sistent dient 103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Institute For 
30 Very long time 63 Most irritable Fettucini with clam sauce International Peace Studies. 
31 .. _newt ... ~~ 
A\t the ~\ovie~ with ~~~U~II3~ 
I I I I 
Pacific Heights 


Thursday, January 30 8 PM &10:30 PM 
SIGN-UPS DATES: January 27-February 7,199a 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) Deceived Friday, January 31 
Contact the Secretary nthe Student Government Office, 

2nd Floor LaFortune Student Center ii6illi6iillll~ Saturday, February 1 a 8 PM &10:30 PM 
CALL?39-7668 

Admission $2 Shown in Cushing Auditorium STUDENT UNION BOARD 



JAY HOSLER 
I SIT ON MY FANNY 
ALL Drt'/ LON&, IN Ttl 
RIVf\T£ ROIJM DOIN' N THINfn £XC6Pr WRD­LNtn OV~R. ALL TH~ 
FOLKS TAKiN-G CAR6 QF M£.. 
JOHN MONKS
SPIN 


~----------------------­
r 
1 
Sports
i page 20 Wednesday, January 29, 1992 
Irish swim teams return to action today at Rolf's 
Swimmers look to each other to overcome bus tragedy 
By JASON KELLY for the swim teams to return to "We're really united right Sports Writer competition. There was specu­now," Garvey noted, "and men­lation that they would not re­tally it will make a big differ­
Tragedies have a way of sume their schedule, but the ence to get back into the pool." bringing people together. teams are glad to be getting Both teams have spent a great 
The members of thfl Notre back to work. deal of time together over the Damfl men's and women's swim "I think it's very important for past few days and Cornick teams will have to rely on each us to get back into competing," believes those meetings will other tonight as they return to junior Greg Cornick said. "The have a postive effect as they the pool today at the Rolf's one huge plus about tomorrow head into action tonight. Aquatic Center at 5 p.m. for the (Wednesday) is that we'll be "After all the talks we've had first time since last week's ac­able to get a postive energy and the encouragement we cident involving the women's going again. I think it would have gotten from the women's team. have been a mistake for us not team, I think we'll be refocused 
Mental preparation is very to compete." and able to come back strong," important for a swim team and he said. it will be difficult for the Irish to Only eight members of the Both teams have had 
regain the same state of mind women's team are healthy Illinois-Chicago's number in re­they had earlier in the season enough to compete, but they cent years. Last season the tonight against Illinois-Chicago. will be in the pool tonight trying men took a 150-89 decision and to regroup after last· week's the women had an equally easy 
"It's tough, but I think it's tragedy. Cara Garvey, Kristin time, winning 145-90. important for us as a team and Broderick and Shana Stevens "It's always a good meet," it will help us get on with the will participate in the back­Birmingham explained. "We've healing process," commented stroke, while Jennifer Dahl and managed to beat them all of my senior captain Jim Birmingham. Heather Winiecki will compete three years, but it's not at all a "Everybody is still pretty much in the freestyle events. Tanya blow off meet." in shock." Williams will try to continue her It's definitely not a blow off 
Most of the campus is still in winning ways in the butterfly meet, but to the team members shock, but life has continued and individual medley events there is a feeling that the meets within the athletic department and diver Victoria Catenacci aren't as important as they 
and elsewhere and now it's time will also compete. used to be. 


Men's basketball to renew historic rivalry with DePaul 
Observer Staff Report One of the biggest wins in Notre continue their intense defense Dame basketball history also to thwart a powerful DePaul Notre Dame seeks to lengthen came over DePaul. attack. The Blue Demons, be­it home win streak to two In the 1978 NCAA hind leading scorers Booth games tonight as the Irish host Tournament, the teams met in (20.6 ppg) and Howard (18.0 longtime rival DePaul at the the Midwest Region final. The ppg), have averaged 83 points Joyce Center. Irish, behind Kelly Tripucka's per game in their last five con­
DePaul (11-5, 4-1 in the Great 18 points and 11 rebounds, tests. Booth recently passed Midwest) enters the contest trounced the Blue Demons, 84-Dallas Comegys for fourth on with a five game winning 64, to earn their only trip to the the DePaul career scoring list. streak, including a 91-84 over­Final Four. "They've got some good ath­time decision against GMC foe Notre Dame also scored a big letes, so they're going to run a Saint Louis and a 72-62 win upset over DePaul in 1980, lot," said Sweet, who averages over Georgetown on national when the Irish shocked the top 16.9 ppg. "We haw1 to keep up television. Against the Billikens, ranked, 25-0 Blue Demons, 76-our tenacious man-to-man de­seniors David Booth and 74 in double overtime, before a fense like we've been playing Stephen Howard, both all­sellout crowd at the JACC. lately." American candidates, led the Orlando Woolridge sunk two The starting five have played Blue Demons with 23 points free throws with 19 seconds more than their share of min­and seven rebounds each. remaining in the second extra utes for the Irish. In their 76-54 
session to seal the Notre Dame rout against Dayton on Monday, 

After returning from nine­victory. the starters recieved a much game road trip, on which they Last season, in the first game needed breather. went 5-4, the Irish (6-8) look to of the home-and-home series, Sweet knows the Irish must continue their series success Daimon Sweet (26 points) led be able to mix up their offense against DePaul. Although Notre the Irish to an 80-77 win. The against DePaul. Dame leads the all-time series Blue Demons responded at the "We have to balance our run­46-37, the Blue Demons have Rosemont Horizon, however, ning attack along with our half­won four of the past five con­and ousted Notre Dame 80-56 court offense," said Sweet, who tests. in the final game of former Irish tallied 18 points in 28 minutes 
The Observer/Jake Peters The series dates back to the coach Digger Phelps's career. of play against Dayton. "We'll Notre Dame guard, Daimon Sweet, shown here against Missouri, leads 1911-12 season, when the Irish After attaining their first be fine if we can get that the Irish against DePaul tonight at the Joyce ACC at 7:30 p.m. beat the Blue Demons twice. home win, the Irish will need to accomplished." 

D' Juan Francisco comes back to Notre Dame to work, not play 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
If a doubt ever exsisted as to the good of college athletics, it would be erased with a short visit to the Notre Dame admin­istration building and the office of former Irish football player D'Juan Francisco. 
After finishing a stellar foot­ball and academic career with the Irish, Francisco has re­turned as an Alumni Association Representative, a job wich places him in charge of seven of the 210 regions that the Alumni Association serves. 
"I serve as a liason between the university and the alumni clubs," said Francisco. "Myself, along with the other represen­tatives, see if we can assist the clubs in their area." 
After coming out of Moeller High School in Cincinnati, Francisco earned three mono­grams, and saw considerable 

action on the 1988 national championship team. He started at strong safety the following year and was a key member in a defensive backfield that was the backbone of the Irish de­fense. 
Among the many highlights in his career, Francisco points to his involvement with the 1988 team as the greatest moment in his athletic career. 
"Winning the title was prob­ably my biggest highlight, not just the championship, but what the entire season represented," said Francisco. "The unity and the continuity that the team had were things that expanded off the football field." 
After finishing his Notre Dame football career at the end of the 1989 season Francisco was a tenth round choice of the Washington Redskins in the 1990 NFL draft. He spent his rookie year on the injured re­serve due to knee surgery and the constant rehabilitation which it entailed. 
The following year the Redskins were unwilling to in­vest anymore time in Fransico's knee and he was released from his contract. He resurfuced in the Canadian Football League with the Hamilton Tiger Cats, but after reinjuring his knee and having surgery again, any hopes of him playing in the CFL were dashed. 
"While I was in Canada I de­cided that it was best for me to walk away from the sport while I could still walk away," said Francisco. 
Making the decision to walk away from something that had occupied so much of his life since high school was a difficult one, but the decision was made easier by the numerous options available to him outside of ath­letics. 
"Athletics was a great avenue for me to get a free education," said Francisco. "Because of that I had a number of things to lay back on. It made it easier for me to walk away. I was disappointed, but I realized that there was more to life than football." 
On the football field Francisco used his speed and agility to give him an edge over opposing players. Off the field, his degree in Sociology is what has enabled him to prosper in the working world 
"Having a degree helped tremendously," said Francisco. "The Notre Dame family will do what they can to open the door for you, but you have to have a degree." 
The opportunity to work with the Alumni Association has shown Francisco a new aspect of Notre Dame, one unforseen in his days as an athlete and student. 
"As a student-athlete here at Notre Dame you tend to look more at the athletic side. I now have an understanding of the other side of the university, the administrative side," said Francisco. "I enjoy being on the other side of the fence." 
Although it may appear that he has accomplished so much up to this point in his life, he stresses that he is not done with his development as an in­dividual. 
"I would like to have the op­portunity to go to graduate school, and later work with kids," said Francisco. "I want to stay here as long as things work out for me." 
Whatever Francisco ends up doing in the future, he has already been a success because he has shown that there is lifr after one's athletic career is over, which is something all athletes should keep in mind. 







