The Observer

VOL. XXV. NO. 51 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

ND graduate Rossello elected E.C. seeks aversion of trade war 
new governor of Puerto Rico 
By NICOLE MCGRATH News Writer 
Dr. Pedro Rossello, a 1966 Notre Dame graduate, was elected governor of Puerto Rico on November 3, becoming the second graduate to be elected governor of a state. 
Rossello, president of the New Progressive party, defeated Victoria Munoz Mendoza of the Popular Democratic party, 50 percent to 46 percent. 
Puerto Rico's governor race was a historic one because Rossello won by the biggest margin in the history of his party, according to his son Luis, a sophomore in Planner Hall. 
"It happened so fast because for the past year we focused on November 3rd, it came and went but I haven't internalized it yet, "Rossello said. 
Meanwhile, Mendoza's loss was the biggest one in her party's history. Mendoza was also the first woman candidate to run for governor. The Popu­lar Democratic party supports keeping Puerto Rico, a com­monwealth nation of the United States, said Rossello. 
The New Progressive party supports Puerto Rico becoming the 51st state of the United States which the elder Rossello has long supported. 
"He hopes for a referendum on the issue of Puerto Rico's status,"said Rossello. The gov­ernor hopes to complete this goal in the next year. 
The governor hopes to com­plete this goal in the next year but plans to support what the Puerto Ricans decide -whether it is independent, statehood or status quo. 
He will then take the referen­dum to the United States congress to be negotiated. Fi-
Bush, Clinton committed to Mideast peace 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush and President-elect Clinton staked claims in Middle East peace talks Monday, seek­ing to dispel Arab and Israeli uncertainty over the U.S. commitment to advance the negotiations during the presi­dential transition. 
"The president is still the president. People here are still the ones in charge until Jan­uary," said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher as Arab and Israeli negotiators re­sumed negotiations after a week's break for the elections. 
State Department officials met recently and on Monday morning with Israeli and Arab delegates, he said, and ex­pected to do so throughout this round of negotiations, which ends next week. 
In Little Rock, Ark., Clinton told Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin by phone that he hoped the Mideast peace talks would continue "without any slowdown" during the transi­tion, said spokesman George Stephanopoulos. 
Clinton also promised he 
see MIDEAST/ page 4 
nally, Dr. Rossello will bring a plan back to be voted upon at a later date, said Rossello, 
His father's political back­ground began as a medical one, said Rossello. In the early 1980s, Dr. Rossello gained tenure at the University of Puerto Rico in medical sciences. 
In 1985, he was appointed Secretary of Health and Human Services of San Juan which he served until1987. 
Dr. Rossello resigned from that post to run for Resident Commissioner. (The equivalent of a U.S. congress representa­tive.) He lost in 1988 but rode a high wave of public support, according to Rossello. 
"He started, in 1989, the Statehood Crusade in order to educate Puerto Ricans about the benefits of statehood," said Rossello. 
By the summer of 1991, Dr. Rossello was made president of the New Progressive party. A few months later, he was run­ning for governor. 
"The race resembles the gu­bernatorial races in the United States except we don't get to vote for president," said Rossello. 
According to him, Puerto Ri­cans are more focused on the governor's race since it is the highest office in the land. 
Dr. Rossello's race was filled with personal attacks on his family, said Rossello. Those at­tacks included charges of cheating and lying about his record. 
"My youngest brother has gone wild over the victory since he saw firsthand all the at­tacks," said Rossello. 
According to Rossello, the biggest issues of the campaign 
see ROSSELLO I page 4 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­European Community foreign ministers, without setting a date, on Monday urged a quick resumption of talks with the United States to avoid a trans­Atlantic trade war. 
But after a one-day meeting, several delegations, led by France, also called for counter measures to respond to planned 
U.S. trade sanctions against $300 million worth of yearly European imports. 
Italian Foreign Trade Minister Claudio Vitalone said the 12 EC states asked the bloc's Ex­ecutive Commission to draft a list of U.S. goods to be targeted for trade sanctions if Washing­ton imposes punitive tariffs on 
Smooth moves 
white wines and other EC products. But other officials said there had been no request to the Ex­. ecutive Commission. 
During the meeting, most member-states said they wanted both sides to try anew to resolve a series of farm sub­sidy disputes before any sanc­tions are imposed. 
"The need has been stressed to come to a conclusion with the Americans ... before the end of the year," said Nico Wegter, an EC Commission spokesman. 
The ministers issued a state­ment in which they expressed "grave concerns at the dangers inherent in the present situation." 
The statement made no mention of trade retaliation. Last week, the EC Executive Commission said any trade re­taliation would be proportional to U.S. sanctions. 
France has urged other EC members to remain tough with Washington, which last week said it would impose stiff tariffs on Dec. 5 on wines -mostly French -if the farm subsidies issue was not resolved within 30 days. 
"We cannot have a construc­tive dialogue where there are threats of retaliation," said Bruno Durieux, deputy French minister for foreign trade. 
see TRADE I page 6 

Members of the Aikido club demonstrate some newly acquired maneuvers at practice yesterday in Rockne Memorial. 




Clinton confers with transition leaders 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) -President-elect Clinton on Monday detailed plans fe)r a pre-Christmas economic summit and began work in earnest on a White House transition that aides said was unlikely to yield many quick decisions. 
Clinton opened the week by exercising his reach as both a sitting governor and president-elect, speaking by phone with. three world leaders. meeting• with his state Cabinetand lieutenant gove .. .. t ·..nfetting with k .. ~rs of his transition ~amt · 
Aides, meanwhile, set out to organize a summit of American business and eco· nomic leaders and to form transition "cluster groups" that will develop recom­mendatitms in various areas of governmentpolicy. 
As he left his statehouse office to vernor's Mansion. escribed the s..· . . ··... as ..'! oJ1tgtowth of his ca~pZ+ign promise to put economic recovery at the top ofhis agenda. 
"I want to bring in some of the brightest people in the country, a broad range of backgrounds, talk to them about the gravity of the situation, deal with.what 
our ODtitlns . good said. 
Earlier in th* day, Clinton met with his state Cabinet and his apparent successor, Lt. Gov. Jim Guy Tucker. Tucker said he and Clinton had agreed a state transition but were not ready due to "a we need 
fore aides transfer of . . several weeks 
From the s:~~tehouse,· it was back to the overnor's Mansion, where met with Vice · · t AI Gore and , i:l).,;i eluding 
·· r Warren• 
Spokesman< .••.. George Stephanopoulos··Said·•Clinton planned a conferenite call Tuesday with ·his. ftill transi­tion board and that the group would Jikely meet in little Rock next 

he said, 
.on his 
whole transi • •• < Who ex;. actly wUI ;q~ ~n place at what patti..l1lltt time we don't know yet." 
That sqggest~d no major decisions wer~ imminent, a view ech()ed Clinton aide 
As Clinton searches for a White House chief of staff, this adviser sqggested the Democrat would .define the role as "strol}g. ~ordinating but not all·p9werfuL" Since getting the ition post, 
Christo · · men.. tioned choice for ead­

adnot 
Stephanot»lulos said Clin~ ton spoke )).y tel~phone Monday witlrGerman Chan­cellor Helmut Kohl, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzha.k Ra­bin and . . . .. ean Presi­dent F.W. dtr 


Arnold: Congress needs leader 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
Congress needs an effective leader to capture the attention of Congress in order to imple­ment an effective legislative agenda, according to Peri Arnold, Notre Dame govern­ment professor. 
President-elect Bill Clinton will provide leadership which compels Congress to "get the ball rolling legislatively," Arnold said. 
While Clinton will not be given free reign in implement­ing policies he finds favorable, he will effectively capture the attention of a Congress which is looking for leadership, he said. 
Although the Democratic Congress is expected to work better with Clinton, a Demo.­cratic President, than it did with George Bush, a Republi­can, diplomatic leadership as well as a Congress which is re­sponsive to that leadership is necessary, according to Arnold. 
Arnold insisted that it is im­
see CONGRESS/ page 4 
----· 

page 2 Tuesday, November 1 0, 1992
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Take the time 
to stop and 



smell the roses 
Axl Rose thinks we need it. 
"Rudy" PR people have been soliciting it in The Observer. 
Directly behind my personal computer is a Sierra Club poster to 

remind me. A red canyon  Anna Marie  
spirals into a tunnel that  Tabor  
looks like the inside of a  Saint Mary's Editor  
blood vessel magnified  ________  
ten  thousand  times.  

"Adopt the _peace of nature, her secret is patience" the caption says. 
Think of how often you tell yourself to take a deep breath, quit looking at your watch, or stop monitoring the thickness between the page number you're reading and the book mark placed where you can stop? 
Not too long ago a yellow slip appeared in my mailbox with a three-figure COD charge. Lo and behold, my class ring had arrived three weeks early. And I didn't have the check to pay for it. 
When the lady at the post office told me they don't accept VISA, I almost lunged through the window at her. It's not her fault-I'm just impatient. 
Mom and Dad immediately sent the money on a Friday, allowing two days travel-time and a Sunday of rest. I knocked over the cleaning ladies running to the delivery room on Monday. It's gotta be here. Saliva was dripping from my mouth. 
Monday turned out to be one of those holidays when the mail isn't delivered. Tuesday-no check. Wednesday passed similarly. A whole week after the ring notice, The Check arrived. (Trumpet fanfare.) 
Of course, there's a line at the post office and I'm late for class. But that's okay. Because I'm good enough, I'm smart enough, and doggonnit ... 
Just my luck, the girl in front of me is buying ten dollars worth of airmail stamps. And the 
P.O. lady is counting them out slowly, and the girl is licking each one individually at the window. This can't be happening! I want my ring now, now, NOW. 
A week's worth of worrying that my ring would rot away was wasted being patient. What I really wanted to do was take the post office by storm, seize the box, and leave a note promising to pay the COD later. 
Prof. Gail Mandell recently shared a quote with me that said the purpose of playing a piece of music is not to get to the end. How many o you have ever played in a piano recital and thought, "If I can just get through those tough measures. then I'm home free .. "? 
Who has time to concentrate on the now? Not me. 
Every day there are pressures from home, from friends, from school that divide and conquer time. When we should be doing homework, there's laundry that needs to be done and the future planned for. Those internships we haven't heard from yet are probably being given to someone else as we speak. 
I am no longer going to sit around and turn into a fossil waiting for checks in the mail. Fifty years from now look me up, ulcers and all, and we'll chat about how there's nothing left to look forward to. 
The views expressed in the Inside Colum are tlnse of tre aut:h:lr arrl rot n::cessarily tlnse of TIE Cbserver. 
Today's Staff:  
News:  Accent:  
Bevin Kovalik  Mara Divis  
Frank Rivera  Sarah Doran  
Sports:  
Brian Kubicki  Lab Tech:  
Production:  David Hungling  
Kathy Fang  Systems:  
Amara Graf  George Harrison  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INTERNATIONAL 
Yeltsin signs Russo­
British treaty 
•LONDON -President Boris Yeltsin of Russia arrived in London today to sign the first Russo-British friendship treaty since 1766 and seek help in obtaining debt relief and investment. On Tuesday, Yeltsin is to have lunch with Queen 

Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace and address Parliament; no Soviet leader has ever addressed Parliament. British leaders have endorsed Yeltsin's appeal for the Club of Paris to reschedule payment of the $70 billion foreign debt owed by Russia and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. But so far Yeltsin has been unable to sway Germany, which holds most of the debt and faces mammoth financial problems stemming from reunification. 
NATIONAL 
First robot used to carry out surgery 
•SACRAMENTO, Calif.-With nerves of steel, superhuman precision and no bedside manner what­soever, a 7 -foot surgical assistant called Robodoc served 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Business Opportunities for Liberal Arts Students will be discussed by Eugene Fanning, professor of Busi­ness Communications, today at 4:30 p.m. in the Foster Room, third Floor LaFortune. Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. All are welcome. 

• 
NDCIBD members must submit resumes to the Marketing Division by Wednesday. Leave them in the Council mailbox outside of the ISO Lounge of LaFortune or with your division director. 

• 
Mary Wollstonecraft's "Vindication" will be celebrated today at 4 p.m. in the Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's College. A faculty panel discussion on "Feminism and the Family: Current Debates." Ann Clark, from the Department of Philosophy and Mary Caputi, from the Department of Political Science will 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING November 9 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 197,490,800 +0. 54 to 230.63 S&P COMPOSITE 

+1.01 to 418.59 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+0.81 to 3240.87
UNCHANGED 
565 

GOLD 
-$3.10 to $333.10 oz 
SILVER 
-$.178 to $3.702 oz 

as a trusty assistant during a hip replacement operation. Robodoc, a mechanical arm with a drill at the end, was used Saturday during the surgery at Sutter General Hospital. The machine, dubbed Robodoc by its inventors, was programmed to drill a precise hole in the patient's leg bone that enabled surgeons to insert the replacement hip without using cement. Doctors can make the 6-to-10-inch hole manually, but the developers believe Robodoc improves precision. 
' 
INDIANA Local Boy Scouts to have food drive 

•South Bend, ln.-As part of one of the nation's largest volunteer food collection, local members of the Boy Scouts of America will be distributing food collection bags in the Michiana area this weekend. The canned food collected by the Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts and Explorers will be donated to local food banks. This year's Scouting for Food Drive begins Saturday, as Scouts will go door-to-door leaving food collection bags. The Scouts will return November 21, to pick up the filled bags, and they ask residents to place the bags outside their doors by 9 a.m. The food drive is being sponsored by the Kroger Company. Anyone who does not receive a bag may contribute by calling 289-0337 or by dropping off canned food at Expert Tire, at the corner of Sample and Michigan Streets, between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. 
speak also. 
• 
The Booklet "Social Concerns Courses with Experi­ential Learning Opportunities for Spring 1992-1993" is now available at the Center for Social Concerns and the Library office of Campus Ministry. 

• 
The Summer Internship Search will be presented today from 6:30 p.m.to 7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. Resources and techniques will be suggested for researching, pursuing, and obtaining a rewarding summer work experience. Presented by Ca­reer and Placement Services. 

• 
Notre Dame Accounting Association is hosting a lecture today by Conviser Duffy on "The CPA exam," at 7 p.m., in room 222 Hayes-Healy Center. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1775: The U.S. Marines were organized under authority of the Continental Congress. 

•In 
1928: Hirohito was enthroned as the emperor of Japan. 

• 
In 1969: The children's educational program "Sesame Street" made its debut on PBS. 

• 
In 1975: The ore-hauling ship Edmund Fitzgerald and its crew of 29 vanished during a storm in Lake Superior. 

• 
In 1976: The Utah Supreme Court gave the go-ahead for 


convicted murderer Gary Gilmore to be executed, according to his wishes. 
• In 1982: The newly finished Vietnam Veterans Memorial was opened to its first visitors. 
Tuesday, November 10, 1992 
Female writer Wollstonecraft's works and cause discussed 
By KATIE CAPUTO News Writer 
The first discussion on Mary Wollstonecraft, an eighteenth century writer, was held last night at Saint Mary's. Dr. Maura Ferguson, a professor of English and women's studies at the University of Nebraska, spoke on "Mary Wollstonecraft: Gender and the Politics of Race." 
Saint Mary's is sponsoring a celebration this week in honor of the contemporary feminist ideas of Wollstonecraft. 
Ferguson discussed Woll­stonecraft's beliefs on women's status in the eighteenth century. Wollstonecraft argued for social justice and condemned slavery, she said. 
In memory of her writings, the idea of slavery was com­pared to marriage because Wollstonecraft believed that all men enslaved women, she said. According to Ferguson, Wollstonecraft uses the lan­guage of slavery to define women's status in a "civil and political sense." 
Wollstonecraft believed that both women and slaves were prevented from developing and exercising their own sense of reasoning, Ferguson said. She equated statuses of gender re­pressed middle class white 
Saint Mary's College 
women to that of slaves. 
Because slaves often resisted their masters, Wollstonecraft thought that women could re­sist men, she said. She also be­lieved they might do this by flir­tatious actions that can perhaps show power in a mockery to men, Ferguson added. 
Wollstonecraft eliminated the project of self determination, and Ferguson believes that she established the feminist atti­tudes for women living in the nineteenth and twentieth cen­turies. "She is clearly the pro­duction of historical times," Ferguson said. 
According to Ferguson, Wollstonecraft is "a ground breaking spectacular pioneer" on the feminist movement. 
Further discussion on Mary Wollstonecraft will continue throughout the week at Saint Mary's. Ann Clark of the Phi­losophy Department and Mary Caputi of the Political Science Department will speak tonight at 4 p.m. on "Feminism of the Family" in Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's College. 


NOVEMBER 14, 1992 
VERY LIMITED SUPPLY: "JOE KNOWS" T-SHIRTS! 
Available at: 
• Britton's Gift Shop (across from the Linebacker) 
• Coach's Sports Bar (South Bend Ave.) 
Back by popular demand... 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m., 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 





Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 




Free Delivery 
271--1177 


Butrus proposes student survey 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Student Body President Greg 
Butrus proposed that a survey 
covering demographics, campus 
issues and social issues should 
circulate to the students at 
Notre Dame in last night's 
student senate meeting. 
The last "Survey of the Stu­
dent Body of Notre Dame" 
sponsored by the student sena-
TAKE THE KEYS. 
CAllA CAB. 
TAKE ASTAND. 
tors was taken November, 1987. 
"I think the idea is good but we definitely need to update some of these questions," said Lyons co-president Stephanie 
· Gallo. "These are important is­sues and we need to be accu­rate in the process in order to have accurate findings," she said. 
A sub-committee was formed of senate members to work ex-
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE. 


StartlineM 

CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES  • FREE FIRST ORDER OF  
When you write 8 checks or less  CHECKS Standard design  
• NO MINIMUM BALANCE  • PAYS INTEREST AT  
COMPETITIVE RATES  
• FREE INSTANT CASH  
ATMACCESS  

Come to expect the best. 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 
elusively on a new survey. 
"This is our best chance to find out about the Notre Dame student body, what they want, what they need and how they feel," said Butrus. 
Butrus stressed that students interested in suggesting issues or even participating in the formation of the new survey should call the "FRED-line" or the student government office. 
MAKE ACONTRIBUTION TD LIFE AFTER DEATH 
American 
Heart Association 1·800-242-8721 

------~-----­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, November 10,1992 
Beer baron runs for president in Bolivia 
LA PAZ, Bolivia (AP) -A poor orphan who became a beer baron has made himself a major candidate for president by building schools, streets and sewers in the slums with his own money. 
An unanswered question is whether he made that money in the beer business, as he insists, or in the cocaine trade, as some critics allege. 
"Max Fernandez is a political reality in Bolivia and has be­tween 20 and 30 percent of the vote," said Charles Bowers, the 
U.S. ambassador. "At the end of the road, his party will play a role in running this country." 
"There are a number of people concerned about how he got (to be) one of the richest men in the country," Bowers said. "Is he an example of a Latino Horatio Alger or some­body who attained his wealth through illegal actions and is now trying to legitimize his wealth? 
"The fact is, he is a contro­versial figure. Nobody, however, has come forth with a smoking gun that would link Max with narco-trafficking." 
Bowers' embassy has had Fernandez's visa application under review for nearly two years, pending a satisfactory explanation of where his money came from. 
Elections are scheduled for June 1993. None of the several presidential candidates is ex­pected to get a majority, so the legislature probably will choose 
the winner. This impoverished country of 
6.3 million has had 76 gov­ernments since it was founded in 1825, many of them military. Democratic administrations have governed since 1982. 
Fernandez's Civic Solidarity Union has become one of the leading parties. In an interview, he said he now is being courted by traditional politicians who ignored him a few years ago because of his origins. 
Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, a wealthy mine owner educated in the United States, is gener­ally viewed as the leading can­didate for president. He speaks accented Spanish because of his many years abroad, however, and opponents often use that against him. 
Polls indicate Sanchez would receive about 30 percent of the vote if the election were held now. 
Another prominent candi­date is former Gen. Hugo Banzer, a dictator in the 1970s whose party is in the current coalition government. 
Most of the support for Fer­nandez comes from slum dwellers who feel ignored by upper-class politicians. He has spent at least $10 million of his own money, through his party, building schools, streets, sewers and power plants in poor neighborhoods. 
"Now that my profits have increased, I'm also increasing my help to poor people because I was also poor," said the dark-skinned, 50-year-old industrial­ist. 
Fernandez is the principal shareholder of the Bolivian Na­tional Brewery, the country's largest company. As a distribu­tor 20 years ago, Fernandez made his first fortune selling beer in the tropical lowlands around Santa Cruz, 450 miles east of La Paz. 
He was born in Quillacollo, a Quechua-speaking town near Cochabamba, 325 miles east of the capital. Fernandez was or­phaned as a child, dropped out of school and worked for Gulf Oil in the 1960s, using his sev­erance pay to start a small beer distributorship. 
After becoming the National Brewery's representative for the booming eastern lowlands, he bought control of the com­pany in 1986, when annual in­flation of 24,000 percent had brought most of the legal econ­omy to a standstill. 
Fernandez says he bought the brewery with profits from his distributing business. Critics say he made the money in the drug trade. 
In 1991, the brewery made a profit of $5 million on sales of $33 million, according to its annual report. Fernandez is building a new brewery in Santa Cruz and Bolivia's first aluminum-can plant, to help increase exports. 
to let its lame-duck status get in the way. 
Assistant Secretary of State Edward Djerejian "assured us that they will ... step up and escalate their involvement" in the process, Palestinian spokeswoman Hanan Ashrawi said after an hour-long meeting with the official. 
But the urgency of a Middle East peace agreement was un­derscored Monday by a second 
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan 
Interview.'> for Notre Dame .<>enior.'> 
interested in Corporate Finance 
will be held in Chicago 
on Friday, January 8, 199.1 
Plea.fie submit a cover letter and resume 
by November 20 to: 
Alice Richardson Fisher 
60 Wall Street 
.J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated 
New llirk, NY 10260-0060 
JPMorgan 
J.P. Mor~ is an equal opportunity employer 


During their leisure time yesterday, freshmen D.J. Murray and Marc Romero play a few video games in the Gorch game room in LaFortune. 
day of violence along the Is­raeli-Lebanese border. 
Even as Israeli and Lebanese negotiators sat together in Washington, an Israeli war­plane raided a village in south Lebanon in retaliation for a barrage of rockets rained on northern Israel by Shiite Mus­lim guerrillas seeking to disrupt the talks. 
Israel's chief negotiator, Uri Lubrani, said he told the Le-
Mideast 
continued from page 1 
"would work closely with Rabin immediately upon his taking office to achieve the joint goal" of peace in the region, said an Israeli statement. Rabin called Clinton to offer his congratula­tions and brief the president­elect on the talks. 
The Bush and Clinton teams 
Rossello 
continued from page 1 
were crime and the economy. "Puerto Rico is right behind Washington D.C. in violent crimes," he said. His father proposes to increase the police force by 50 percent in his four­year term. 
Dr. Rossello was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and attended school in the United States, said Rossello. 
Majoring in chemistry, Dr. Rossello was an undergraduate who lived in Lyons and Ca-
Congress 
continued from page 1 
possible for us to tell yet what 
sort of changes will take place with Clinton working with 
Congress. "Relations could hardly be worse. Bush offered no leadership." 
Clinton will work at selling his agenda to the public and Congress will in turn be re­sponsive to the wishes of vot­ers, said Arnold. 
Congress now, more than ever, must concern itself with the Wishes of voters since there seems to be quite a bit of sup­port for Congressional term limitations he said. 
"This support is no doubt the result of public dissatisfaction with the government," said Arnold. 
on foreign policy issues have not yet been in contact, both sides said. A Bush aide who spoke on the condition of anonymity said it was too soon to decide whether White House chief of staff James Baker, the architect of the Mideast talks, would take one last trip to the region to boost the slow-moving negotiations. 
For now, the administration was signaling its intention not 
vanaugh Hall. He was captain of the 1966 tennis team and had a winning year, according to RosseUo. 
Before coming back to Puerto Rico, Dr. Rossello went to Yale medical school and did post­graduate work at Harvard. 
Dr. Rossello and his family will be spending Thanksgiving at Notre Dame and he said that the time will be valued. 
"I don't know what the next four years will bring but we won't be able to have a normal family life by being in the pub­lic's eye," said Rossello. 
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend A venue Appointments if desired 
272-6722 
Serving t& 'J{ptre 'Dame communityfor over 30 years 

banese delegation that "if there is no security on our side of the border, life will become intoler­able on your side of the border as well. The latest attack will not pass unnoticed." 
Lebanon responded that the rocket firings were the result of an Israeli air raid on the Bekaa Valley in which four Lebanese were killed over the weekend. 
The session was curt, and ended after less than an hour. 

.r--------------~~---~~--------------------------­
Tuesday, November 10, 1992 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 

Behind the scenes 
An extra cast member for the movie "Rudy" prepares for his scene by 
receiving some last minute primping. Scenes for the movie were shot 
yesterday in the stadium of the locker room. 

r---,=1==,-=h=---e--0-:--b--s-e--r-v--e-r___ 
missionaries were freed by

SMC Sports Reporters Meeting Charles Taylor, but the rebel 
Haggar Garne R00ffi Thursday, November 12 at 6:30p.m. Mandatory for staff and new reporters are welcome. Call Nicole McGrath for more 
information at 284-5193 

FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. For more information contact: 

Mayo Medical Center Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903 1-800-247-8590 

--------~--------, 
The Observer page 5 
Germans remember 'Crystal Night' 
BERLIN (AP) -Nearly 100,000 Germans demon­strated across the country on Monday to mark the 54th an­niversary of the Nazis' "Crystal Night" attacks on Jews and to protest a wave of neo-Nazi vio­lence. 
Monday also was the third anniversary of the Berlin Wall's fall. But the German celebra­tion of that watershed was sombre after violence by anar­chists on Sunday disrupted a huge Berlin rally against right­wing extremism. 
The violence prompted Chan­cellor Helmut Kohl's chief of staff, Friedrich Bohl, to urge tougher laws allowing police to act against troublemakers in advance. 
But Bohl conceded a lack of political concensus for such laws. Kohl's conservative coali­tion partner, the Christian So­cial Union, boycotted Sunday's rally and demanded the gov­ernment take steps to stem the flood of refugees. 
President Richard von Weizsaecker, who was splat­tered with eggs by the anar­chists, said in a national televi­sion appearance Monday that he was ready to be in more protests to show his solidarity with foreigners. 
Nazi thugs attacked syna­gogues and Jewish homes and businesses throughout Germany on Nov. 9, 1938, killing more than 90 Jews, arresting 30,000 and leaving so much broken glass it became known as "Crystal Night." It marked the start of open persecution of Jews and ushered in the Holo­caust, which claimed the lives of 6 million European Jews. 
Commemorative marches were held in Rome, where about 10,000 people beneath flickering torches wound through the old Jewish ghetto. At the head of the column were seven concentration camp survivors locked arm-in-arm. 
In Tel Aviv, dozens of Israelis, including children of Holocaust survivors, marched outside the German Embassy to protest rising anti-foreigner violence. 
In Bremen, about 1,000 peo­ple at a ceremony heard Ignatz Bubis, the head of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, admonish political leaders to stand up to extreme rightists, who have been attacking for­eign refugees and defacing Jewish memorials. 
Bubis said weak leadership was a prime cause of the col­lapse of Germany's post-World War I democracy, the Weimar Republic. 
But Berlin Mayor Eberhard Diepgen said the important thing was the huge turnout at Sunday's rally -not the leftist protests. 
"The democrats came out, 350,000 and more, and demonstrated in Berlin. That didn't happen in the Weimar Republic, and that is the differ­ence," he said. 
On Monday, more than 50,000 thousand people attended a "Rock Against Rightists" concert in Cologne, and at least 20,000 people marched against intolerance in Munich. 
Diepgen helped lay the cornerstone of a new $75 mil­lion Jewish Museum. Designed by Daniel Libeskind, a Polish­born American architect, the museum will ha~e a radical zigzag plan with narrow win­dows intersecting in abstract patterns. It incorporates a void that symbolizes the emptiness left by the destruction of Ber­lin's Jewish community. 
Monday also marked the third anniversary of the end of Berlin's division with the fall of the Berlin Wall. 
The euphoria of unification gave way long ago to worries about the cost of merging the country's bankrupt formerly Communist eastern lands with its long-prosperous west. The burden has been compounded by the cost of caring for tens of thousands of foreign asylum seekers, which has bred re­sentment among many Ger­mans and fueled attacks on foreigners by rightists. 
~~~~~:~~·:~~g: 1!;:~~~;~~1~~f.~dfi~~~~~~:.~?.~~!~., 
leader vowed to "fight to the last man" in his battle for the capital against a West African force. 
There appeared little hope Taylor would heed calls for a cease-fire from the leaders of the seven-nation army. The force, sent to Monrovia to halt Liberia's civil war two years ago, has engaged in heavy fighting with Taylor since he at-
Lara, Happy 
Monday that 12 American and 
three British missionaries were freed after being detained 10 days by Taylor's rebels and 
were safe in neighboring Ivory Coast. The missionaries of the Sanford, Fla.-based New Tribes Mission were not immediately identified. 
Frank Braerly, director of the group's office in Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast, said none of the missionaries was mistreated by rebels who detained them at 

19th Birthday! 
We are so proud of our SMC sophomore! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, and Brian 
$ Beat The Christmas Rush! 
$
Borrow Now From The Morrissey Loan Fund 30 Day Loan 1% Interest Up To $250 
But diplomatic sources in 
Monrovia, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity, said the mis­sion was looted and wrecked by 
Taylor's fighters. Two American missionaries were taken to Taylor's quarters for question­ing, they said. 
Roman Catholic officials claim Taylor's· fighters killed five American nuns in a Monrovia suburb last month, a charge Taylor has denied. 
The leaders of the Economic Community of West African States voted Saturday to impose immediate sanctions against warring factions in Liberia and demanded the fighting stop by midnight Tuesday. 
Scholarships Available 
Call 1-800-423-5515 
For a recorded message giving details 
Shumate & Associates 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke-free institution. 
MoN -FRI 11 :30 -12:30 PHONE: 239-8727 
1:u FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
$ $
0'HARA LOUNGE 
Tuesday, November 1 0, 1992
page 6 The Observer 
Gunman kills six, wounds one in California spree SECURITY BEAT 


MORRO BAY, Calif. (AP) -A man known around town as "Crazy Jim" hunted down and killed six people -apparently in revenge for being evicted from a house and barred from a card club -then shot himself to death. 
Lynwood Drake III, 43, killed himself Sunday while authori­ties were talking by phone to a woman he took hostage. The hostage was not seriously hurt. 
The slayings were "very thought out, very intentional," police Sgt. Greg Beuer said. "He fully intended on killing some people Saturday night and did it in a very methodical way." 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) Government and 
tinancia.l.le(ld~rs expresse~.r::ilt 
support "' Monday formA 
President Cesar Ga.viria's 
declaration of a state of 
emergency to crack down 
on leftist rebels. 
Even the media, which is .VA 
prohibited under the'"''"" 
decree from <publishing ;;;; 
relrel statements, backed 
the steps Gaviria. 
announced Sunday night. 
"The presiden~ has finally 
realized that attempts at a 
negotiated solution (witlL<ih 
the guerrillas) have been · 
and will continue to be 
futile," said the EI 
Espectador, one of two 
leading Bogota dailies. 
Gaviria. also announced as; 
series of security measures 
to confront a heightened 
rebel offensive. The action 
was prompted by weekend 
attacks by rebels from the 
Simon Bolivar Coordinated 
Front, an umbrella organi· 
zation that represents the 
Revolutionary Armed 
Forces of Colombia, or 
FARC, and the National 
Liberation Army, or ELN. 
Guerrillas overwhelmed a ..·..· 
remote southern security "" 
post Saturday, killing 26 
police officers charged wi 
guarding a J11ngle oil field 
in the state of Puta.mayo. 
On Sunday, rebels 
detonated 30 bombs at 
banks the colliDtr'Y. 
Trade 
continued from page 1 
The Bush administration vowed to impose sanctions on $300 million worth of goods exported to the United States after the two sides failed to break an impasse over EC subsidies to European farmers producing competitively priced grain products. 
The dispute over subsidies is 
holding up an overall accord 
between the 105 nations of the 
General Agreement on Tariffs 
and Trade. 
"The American attitude ... is 
a very serious obstacle to the 
GATT negotiations," Durieux 
said. 
Durieux said France was not 
alone in its refusal for conces­
sions to Washington. "They 
want us to think it is but it's 
not," he told reporters. 
The United States position 
against the EC is backed by 
Canada, Australia, Argentina 
and many Third World coun­
tries. 
The American tariffs are largely targeted on French 
Drake first went to a Morro Bay house with a pistol, killing Norman Metcalfe, 37, and Danny Cizek, 32, and wounding a third man. At a house nearby, 80-year-old Andrew Zatko was shot to death in front of his live­in companion. 
Zatko had recently evicted Drake from a rental home and Metcalfe, a former roommate of Drake's, testified against Drake at the court proceeding, Beuer said. 
Drake's anger may have been intensified by the departure of his common-law wife and her infant daughter last month, Beuer said. 
white wines, an obvious move to hurt France, with a powerful farm lobby and the most resis­tant to any effort to slash sub­sidies to the EC's 9 million farmers. 
An Irish official said Ireland would side with France on re­sisting giving concessions to Washington, but would not go along with French demands for instant retaliation. 
Italian Foreign Minister Emilio Colombo said Italy sup­ports the French position but added the EC hoped to avoid starting its relations with a new 
U.S. president on a bad footing. 
German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel urged EC negotia­tors to go back to the table, stressing the need to sew up a cross-Atlantic deal before the promised Dec. 31 deadline and before President-elect Clinton takes office in January. 
"We've come very close (to an agreement) and we've got 30 days" until U.S. sanctions are scheduled to take effect, he said. "It would be a stupid thing if we had a trade war now." 
"He said, 'If I lose this place my wife is going to go home and take the girl with her,"' said Lee Broshears, Zatko's lawyer in the eviction case. 
Later in the evening, Drake armed himself with a shotgun, drove to Oak's Card Parlor gambling hall in nearby Paso Robles and killed two men and a woman: David Law, 47, Joe Garcia, 60, and Kris Staub, 31. 
Other patrons who took cover under a table were spared when they begged for their lives, the Telegram-Tribune of San Luis Obispo reported. 
Beuer said Drake apparently had suffered heavy gambling losses at the club. Drake, known to locals as "Crazy Jim," had also been barred from the club for being a troublemaker, the newspaper said. 
"He used to play there and apparently wasn't welcome there. I don't know why," sh­eriff's Lt. Pat Hedges said. 
Drake then went to the home of Joanne Morrow, 60. Authori­ties said she lives near another home Drake had rented last year. 
As Morrow was telling deputies by phone that Drake had threatened to kill her, he shot himself in the head, au­thorities said. 
Ball State capital campaign exceeds $40 million goal 
MUNCIE, Ind. (AP) -A cam­paign to raise $40 million for Ball State University has ex­ceeded expectations by $4.1 million, officials said. 
"Every person associated with Ball State and the cam­paign has reason to be proud," said Ball State President John Worthen. 
"Wings for the Future," which was Ball State's first comprehensive capital cam­paign, drew donations from about 40,000 contributors. 
The gifts will fund endowed chairs and distinguished pro­fessorships; endowments for faculty development libraries, internal programs, scholarships and other student support; classroom and laboratory equipment and materials, and campus facilities. 
Major gifts during the cam­paign include: 
•A $5 million gift from the George and Frances Ball Foun­dation -the largest single gift in Ball State's history. 
•A 2-to-1 challenge grant 
from the Ball Brothers Foun­dation to faculty, staff and stu­dents for $3 million in joint funding. Gifts from Ball State exceeded the goal by $200,000. 
•A matching gift challenge of $500,000 from the Ball Broth­ers Foundation for the Ball State Museum of Art. 
FRI., NOV. 6 
2:05 a.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his coat from the coat room at Senior Bar. 3:07a.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported that the rear window had been smashed in on his vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the D-2 North parking lot. 
1:30 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of her coat from the restroom at the Law Library. 
SAT., NOV. 7 
11:15 a.m. Notre Dame Security found a suspect soliciting football pins at the JACC. The pins were confiscated and the suspect was issued a trespass letter . 
4:52 p.m. A visitor to the University reported the theft of his wheelchair from inside the stadium. 
6:27 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported that two suspects were robbing his room when he returned from the shower. Notre Dame Security found several stolen items in their possession. The suspects had out­standing warrants on them and were transported to jail. 
SUN., NOV. 8 
8:09 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of a two vehicle accident on Old Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
4:01 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
MON., NOV. 9 
11:20 a.m. A visitor to the University reported the theft of the hood ornament from his vehicle while the vehicle was parked in Blue Field for the football game. 
2:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Student reported the theft of his coat from the basement of the Hesburgh Library. 
SMC Students Interested in Writing for 
The Observer 
The SMC computer can now send stories to ND office. 
Contact: Amy Greenwood-news 273-2993, Nicole McGrath-sports 284-5193, Mara Divis-accent 284-5254 or Anna Marie Tabor-editor 284-5440 for more information. 
Information Session 
~ 
Notre Dame AIDSAwareness will hold an information session tonight. All current members are required to attend. 
Anyone else who is interested is welcome! 
Where: Sorin Room in LaFortune When: 7:00P.M tonight 
Business 

Tuesday, November 10, 1992 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Steinberg discusses current issues, his involvement in sports industry 


Continental pi~ks Air Canada offer for buyout 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN News Writer 
Sports attorney Leigh Steinberg discussed his involvement in the sports world and the important issues he sees facing the sports industry as it heads into the future during his lecture yesterday in the Hayes-Healy Center. 
The Los Angeles native also discussed how he got his start as a sports attorney and how it led to his current dealings with professional athletes in the National Football League (NFL) and Major League Baseball (MLB). 
When Steinberg was a law student at the University of California-Berkeley in 1975, quarterback Steve Barkowski asked him to be his legal representative in the upcoming NFL draft. With Steinberg's assistance, Barkowski signed the largest rookie contract in history as the first pick by the Atlanta Falcons for $650,000 over four years. 
Steinberg now represents an im­pressive list of athletes which includes Troy Aikman, Jeff George and Desmond Howard. 
Steinberg addressed the issue of free agency in both the NFL and MLB. He pointed out the flaws in both systems, 
ND/SMC Entrepreneur Club outline plans at first meeting 
·ey ALLISON CONNOLLY News Writer 
The Entrepreneur Club of Notre Dame/St. Mary's held its first meeting in three years last night in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. 
The co-presidents of the club, Ca­vanaugh junior Gene Sheikh and Alumni sophomore Timothy Schenck, both students of the business school who organized last night's meeting, were surprised by the amazing turnout which overflowed the theater. 
The objectives of the Entrepreneur Club are to prepare students to run their own businesses and to stimulate interaction between students and local businesses. 
The agenda for the club is already ou~­lined but is subject to change and ex­pansion according to member-input. 
On the list of activities for the year are Student Advisory Boards, in which members will have the opportunity of 

_N~W YO~K (AP) -Conti~e~tal u.s. cities where Continental airlines flies Airlines picked a _$450 milhon llthebuyoutagreemento!ContinentalbyAirCanadaisapproved:buyout offer from Air Canada and ~"'~':--•Passengers wift be able to purchase adiscounted joint fare instead of amore expensive connecting fare. 
. t M d

other mves ors on ay as a way 
to emerge from bankruptcy court 
d 't b . . t th

and expan 1 s usmess moo er COUntrieS. The proposed deal would give Air Canada and a group of Fort 
.

Worth, Texas-based Investors a majority stake in Continental and 
enable both airlmeS tO Carry more paSSengerS by linking their rOUte systems. 
,_...... .

If approved by U S . . Bankruptcy Orange County . """on ~ariA~f ~ Houston INow Orleans Court and federal regulators, the SanOiogo . McAII:.s'.~.:~g~rp~s BntonRougn T'~rt'ot!~J~~~·ch deal would mark the third time in Hanmgen' nst Latayottn Ft Mnycrs Mom' 
1,,~ (Thereareelghtcitiesthatbothai~inesHyoutolintheU.S.)
,_.,!l ·Passengers can use their accumulated ~equent Hyer miles from both a1~1nes. '##.!.li~ •Thecompaniescansharejointmarketingandpromotion £.,~ •AirCanadacanprovidetechnologyandtechnicalsupponw-conliflenta~.-------.. :::·_·_.---­
.---. · __ euttalo ----. .--. _ 
U.S.citisswhsrsbolhContmsntalandAi'.Cana¢.i:.Ry . .--_ c~::~J~ RochOste< . •. . _ 8 
. ·: __ .-Ml_nneapo"7' ' Paul l·lsyracu~e . ··_ · -· 
. . . Billings MiAot·--.-~·· ..t--···.·· ... D~~Oit rButlll'l9!-01-........spo~•n•·M,..OU.•i·'"'..-:··~s--.· . · ·crrli:inoati'.l··. .._ .. ~.orl:;:;:noh<ister
--~~ 
Van~l!'Jefllt-~ ...-:J, . · B1smark Milwaukee• 1 : .. . ··· · Bosti:ln
· 
seatdel)'aci>ma• . .-t,ieman . -omana ChiC!I90o ---.----Providence 
_}'di'uano• ~-lol~ Gran_d_Junction~ --lndt:;apolts• -~lurn\i(J•':~--~"~ N~:::~~r~City . Salt_Lake City• Denver,-'Wichita • f St ~OI:I.!S ~ . • . •••.. .. ~"-' NewarkSacra~onto . ---A -·• ---Kansas Ctty--·tcuisiihlo -{Or .t, Philadolphta
San Fcan~sco \, -eno_ Coloradp Sprmgs • • Tulsa . ~en. . ro Balhmore ..-~ ·-~a~'llega.s eAibuquerque ~ahom<lCt!y _ Pensa:'~lanta No.tolk Washmgton.D.C. 
·san Joso.)'l1;0ntarto :hoont< El)'nso DallaS'Ft Wa<lh ,.. .-Jackson~lle .Los Angelos r.. --: ..T. Austin• • r-TT Mob<lo Tampn .,.-D·~non~ Beach
0--M.ftgo3rno 

recent yearS that a big u.s.sou"eConlmenlaiA,rlm.,floldu>g,,lnc 
carrier has agreed to a substantial investment by a foreign airline. 
Overseas carriers increasingly have been trying to invest in U.S. airlines to gain access to their domestic route networks. Some U.S. airlines, meanwhile, have been looking abroad for money to prop up their operations after being pummeled by a year of huge losses due to the recession and a string of fare wars. 
British Airways is awaiting U.S. government approval of its plan to invest $750 million in USAir. And KLM Royal Dutch Airlines has held a large stake in Northwest Airlines since 1989. 
If the Air Canada deal goes through, Houston-based Continental plans to emerge from court-supervised protection in the spring, Continental chief Robert Ferguson said. 
Continental picked Air Canada's offer 

Leigh Steinberg 
stating the parity between rookie and veteran contracts in football and the lack of compensation for strong performance by young players in baseball. 
Steinberg also talked about the moral obligations that athletes have to· the community and the people they influence. 
"Early in Atlanta, when I was rep­resenting Steve Barkowski, I saw what an impact athletes can have on people," he said. "I realized the positive influence the athletes I represented could make." 
This realization led to the creation of special clauses in some of his clients 
sitting in on boards of various local companies. The student boards will present proposals and opinions at bi­monthly meetings concerning different facets of companies. 
Also on the club's agenda is an En­trepreneur Contest in which a member has the opportunity to present a new idea, product, service or image, along with its benefits, cost and marketing strategies. 
Sheikh encouraged both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to become in­volved in the club's activities. "We wel­come students of any major, not simply from the business school," he said. 
The Entrepreneur Club's next meet­ing is scheduled for Dec. 2. 
Speakers at last night's meeting in­cluded Kitson Logue, a Notre Dame graduate and president of Stewart Pet Products Inc., his co-executive and wife, Julie Logue, and John Cohoat, Notre Dame alumnus and CEO of the Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Company. 
over a bid by Houston businessman Charles Hurwitz and Aeromexico 
th t h d bl' 1 ff d
a a pu IC Y O ere 
$400 million for 
Conti'nental. The amount Of the group's final bid wasn't disclosed Monday. Under the Air Canada
b'd h 1 b d
I , t e Montrea -ase airline and Continental WOuld retain their CUrrent
d
i entitieS but COnneCt their systems at Continental's 
N k I t t' l 
ewar n erna IOna Airport and Houston Intercontinental Airport 
APIK """•hubs. The alliance. is aimed at making it easier for passengers to make reservations and connections between the two carriers. 
Air Canada, that country's largest airline, has been losing money and looked at expansion as a way to survive. If a treaty liberalizing restrictions on flights between the United States and Canada is signed, the investment offers greater benefits for both airlines, ana­lysts and airline officials said. 
contracts that call for a portion of the salary to be given to a charitable cause the client supports. For example, a portion of Dallas Cowboy quarterback Troy Aikman's salary is donated to his alma mater, UCLA. 
Steinberg also discussed the issue of underclassmen entering the NFL draft. 
"I have met with a lot of athletes, and have always encouraged them to stay in school," he said. "But there are certain circumstances which make entering the draft early a choice which is necessary for the athlete." 
His discussion of the sports industry varied from stories of his own negotiations to the vast amount of growth that merchandising, memo­rabilia, television and player contracts have undergone in recent years. 
"The increase in television revenue is what causes the rise in players salaries," he said. "The individual team profit from the NFL television was two million dollars in 1975, and in 1993, it will be $45 million." 
Steinberg's lecture was sponsored by the Notre Dame MBA Marketing Association. 
Regulator: 
Bank losses 
not harmful 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -The acting chairman of the Federal Deposit In­surance Corp. said Monday he has as­sured the Clinton transition team that bank failures anticipated next month will not jolt the economy. 
Andrew C. Hove Jr.. who took over at the FDIC after the death of chair­man William Taylor in August, said he told a senior Clinton adviser that about 40 banks with $10 billion to $15 billion in assets could be subject to seizure starting Dec. 19. That's the effective date of a new law giving regulators power to take over weak banks before they actually lapse into insolvency. 
Speaking to reporters covering the annual convention of the Savings & Community Bankers of America, Hove said he told the Clinton team that some of those banks may be able to attract new capital from investors and stave off seizure. 
"They were reassured," he said."... There will be some failures but it's not something that is going to destroy the economy." 
Hove, a former Nebraska banker and a Republican, also said he would be willing to remain on the five­member board even if Clinton ap­points a new chairman. The terms of all board seats expire in August. By law, only three can be of the same party as the president. 
"If the president were to ask me to stay, I would stay. However, that's his choice," Hove said. 
Little is known about the precise changes in banking policy that Clin­ton might push, but Hove said he be­lieved Clinton recognized that the crackdown on banks and savings in­stitutions following the savings and loan debacle has gone too far and is discouraging lending needed to revive the economy. 
"It is my sense that there is an in­terest both in the Congress and in the new Clinton administration to take a look at how heavy this (regulatory) burden is, ... and I'm optimistic that they will perhaps relieve some of it," he said. 

----------~----~------­
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, November 10, 1992 
Nurture God's children on love, not blind hatred 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller .............•...•.....• David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS report_ed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials re~resent the ~p1n10~ of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ed1tor, V1ewpomt Ed1tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentanes, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on· campus through letters is encouraged. 
~----·· 
Mark C. Behr 
Guest Columnist 
God instructed white South Africans to give 13 percent of the country's land to 87 percent of the country's population. 
God even spoke of the texture of certain types of hair as be­longing to the children of Cain. 
God justified not teaching black children math and science as they were suited to do only certain forms of manual labor. 
God commanded Afrikaners not to challenge government authority -as God himself had appointed that authority. 
And so we listened when God, through his government, taught us that whites and blacks who dared to love each other should be summarily dragged from their homes and imprisoned -in some cases murdered. 
As a white Afrikaans speaking South African, I, like millions of other whites, did my fair share to uphold apartheid. 
Over and above my silence, I offered my obedience to con­scription and did time in rhe brutal Angolan bush war, later becoming a commissioned offi­cer in the South African Marine Corps. 
It is the lingering reality of my South African past and future which now compels me to write. 
In many ironic ways, you see, Notre Dame reminds me of home. For the sake of space, I shall limit exposing the paral­lels to but one: a brief response to Mr. Paul Fisher's two page diatribe against homosexual love in last Friday's Observer. 
Apartheid, like Mr. Fisher's homophobia, was implemented, practiced and upheld for decades with the assistance of selective and warped Biblical teachings. 
Is it necessary for me to re­mind the Notre Dame commu-
I'U­
SAY! 
nity that Apartheid -the ideol­ogy which I so unquestioningly supported -has been declared a crime against humanity by virtually every nation on earth? 
Given the context whence I come, I cannot but shudder at how Mr. Fisher selects all nine (I doubt there are more) texts from the Bible to build a seem­ingly damning case against people who dare to involve themselves in the consumma­tion of the same gender love. For that is what homosexuality (a concept used in the late 19th century!) is all about: A man loving a man, or a woman lov­ing a woman. 
Through my own serious at­tempts to understand apartheid, I have become con­vinced that any form of willful oppression of human beings by other human beings, is morally indefensible. I cannot subscribe to a notion of hierarchy of discrimination whereby one form of social discrimination is seen as more serious than an­other. 
I am also convinced that most oppressions, say along race, 
He'G CLClCKING 95-' IWN~ IFI :;H(J{)tl? 570PHIMIAJrTH54M 
ONMY BliCK,., 
gender, religious or class lines, are somehow related -more often than not to the mainte­nance of power and thus of certain status quo's. Hence I also move from the premise that I cannot speak out against one on justice and remain se­lectively silent about another. 
There seems to be broad in­ternational evidence that ap­proximately 10 percent of the world's population is homosex­ual. At the same time it seems that percentage has been little (if at all) altered by the gay and lesbian struggles of the past thirty years. What has been broadened by these struggles is the freedom of lesbian and gays to live more open and fulfilling lives. 
If this is true, and if Mr. Fisher writes from a bona fide concern for the salvation of humanity, then I would firstly advise him (and the Church) to make as great an issue of the idolater, adulterers, drunkards and swindlers (who certainly make out a much larger part of the world's population and of the flock of the holy Catholic 
IAJHO ('AR5? tJ 
•0 
'An editor should have a pimp for a brother, so he'd have someone to look up to.' 
Gene Fowler 
Don't tum a trick, submit: QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
Church), and all of whom fea­ture so clearly -not only in Mr. Fisher's selected verses, but in thousands of other biblical pas­sages. 
Secondly, I would advise him to compile a similar selection of Biblical verses on the role and place of women. It is in this sphere that Mr. Fisher -and Father Malloy for that matter ­may be most able to prevent billions of people from the ago­nies of eternal fire and brim­stone. 
For is not more than 50 per­cent of the world's population female? And is not the greatest majority of that percentage en­gaged in various forms of labor and activity which is explicitly forbidden or frowned upon by hundreds of Biblical refer­ences? 
My question to others (particularly so-called Chris­tians) who are caught in their own disdain for homosexuals, is this: Why do you hate that which you do not know? If you are not homosexual, what are you afraid of? 
My biggest question to every 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
bigot and member of the Notre Dame Community is this: What are you doing about this hatred and fear; and what about the Janus face of a university ad­ministration which refuses to allow a gay and lesbian student organization to operate on campus (for purportedly moral reasons) while embracing the military establishment with open arms, pockets, and minds -or does this actually illustrate the axis of Notre Dame's "morality;" an administration which holds the sword of Damocles over the heads of its own closeted fathers, closeted mothers, closeted daughters and closeted sons; and admin­istration which allows inhuman discrimination -and thus the imprisonment rather than the freeing of human potential ­against people, because they love? 
The complicity of silence ­precisely the charge Fisher brings to motivate his outpour­ing of homophobic venom, is somewhat ironically the one I wish to reiterate. 
As an Afrikaner who himself is already being judged by his­tory, I believe it my moral obli­gation to sound a warning to both students and faculty of this university: Let history not say of your Alma Mater that it was the place of learning where people were unceasingly taught to hate, despise and banish those who claimed the right to love. 
For history will have no choice but to expose your si­lence as support; as secret complicity. 
May Notre Dame -therefore each of you -decide wisely. I wish you luck. 
Mark Behr is a graduate stu­dent of the International Schol­ars Program at the Kroc Insti­tute for Peace Studies. 
------------------------~--------------------­

-----~-~~--­
Viewpoint

Tuesday, November 1 0,1992 page 9 
Father Ted Blues: ND riots during the fall of '67 
The older students had been at Pete Peterson parties that made the move­a second anti-Dow demonstra­

When Dennis O'Dea ran for the tail end of the Civil Rights Beyond Freedom Rock ment worth joining. tion, in which the major con­Student Body President in 1967, Movement, and some had gone A year later, Dow returned troversy was internal, between the opposition mocked his into the South on semester began with a few catcalls and to recruit and, by an astonish­"worms" and "sardines." The progressive platform with the breaks to help register black loud remarks of the sort that ing bit of scheduling, the Cen­worms wanted to sit in front of gibe, "A Riot A Day With voters. They became the core are intended to be overheard. tral Intelligence Agency was the placement bureau doors so O'Dea," and the student body that dragged Notre Dame into Then the students around the recruiting the same two days. that anyone going into an in­elected moderate Chris Murphy. the Sixties. railing began to drop trash and We seized the Administration terview would have to physi­The demonstration came The first sit-in under the to spit on the demonstrators Building, but this wasn't cally step over them, while the anyway, although my class Dome occurred in the spring of below. Columbia, and we had a fairly sardines wanted to pack to­missed very little by being still '68, when Dow Chemical sent a I suddenly realized that, if cordial relationship with Father gether tightly so that job candi­in high school for the first two recruiter to the placement bu­the issues weren't clear, I could Hesburgh, who was reasonably dates would not be able to get months of Murphy's reign. reau, conveniently located on at least tell where the shitheads supportive of activism. through. 
Before we arrived in the fall, the second floor of the rotunda, were standing, and I didn't Organizers of the demon­It was following this demon­there had only been one major a place with good acoustics and want to stand with them. So I stration informed the adminis­stration that Father Hesburgh, demonstration, a protest at the a lot of traffic. went downstairs and became tration of our intention to oc­who was not so much pro-worm annual ROTC review the previ­I was not going to demon­and anti-war activist. cupy the building throughout as anti-sardine, issued a famous ous spring. We didn't start the strate, but several of my friends That spring, there were riots the three days that Dow and the letter, telling demonstrators trend, but, when O'Dea and were, so I went by to see what in Paris, and later, the man CIA were recruiting on campus, that, if they disrupted the Murphy's classmates did, we was happening. I found 150 or most identified with the French and they said it was alright as business of the university, they had good seats. so students sitting in front of students explained that the stu­long as we didn't try to get into would be given a 10-minute 
We did not come to school to the placement bureau door, and dents were marching arm-in­the offices. warning, then, if they refused to learn to read and riot. I grew a crowd of spectators four or arm, drinking wine, kissing and So we didn't so much seize disperse, they would be up in a mining town, and my five times that large. I went up singing songs, and rioted not the building as camp out in it, summarily expelled and treated closest friends went into the to the third floor to watch from over the issues but because the but it was a dramatic gesture as trespassers. Marines as I went off to Notre the railing. police tried to break up the that attracted attention both on It sounded hard-line to the Dame. I knew that what was in The speeches were tenden­party. So it was everywhere: campus and from the commu­outside world, and the conser­the newspapers did not match tious, and some of the Crowd Demonstrations were not the nity. vative press was delighted, but what my sister's boyfriend was began to grow restless. They movement. They were the Later in the year, there was most activists were only upset writing home, and I questioned that Hesburgh had not first what we were up to, but I wor­consulted the newly-formed ried about my friends' mora!!J, Student Life Council. 
physical assaults on the quad. publican, a daily newspaper in It was easier to be conspicuous Plattsburgh, New York. and go with the flow. 
And yet there was activism. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Something is really wrong here Printing column showed 
Dear Editor, not condemned -as Mr. Fisher bible and of the Church's I am writing in response to seemingly was alluding in his mission. 
inexusable 'judgement'

Paul A. Fisher's ('43) hate-filled remark that the action was I may be wrong, but if his Dear Editor: a lunatic and a sound difference letter in which he felt compelled "confusing." comments are exemplary of his This is not a letter about the of opinion based on facts re­
to purchase a full two-page Maybe this man is "confused" beliefs, then I think he is section of the paper for the sole by the fact that some people can missing the overall message of column on Jewish Slave Law. flects bad on us all. We have purpose of "biblically" think for themselves and realize the Church (or at least what it's This is however a letter is re­failed as an academic institu­denouncing homosexuality. that ultimately hatred is the supposed to be) and that is the sponse to Joe· Moody, editor of tion. It is precisely this type of 
I strongly support the notion greater wrong; and that it is message of love -not hatred. Viewpoint, and to Monica Yant, ignorance that endangers our that we each, as humans, are finally time that even Catholics Furthermore, Mr. Fisher's editor-in chief of The Observer. freedoms. Professor Carberry entitled to our own opinions evaluate their positions on ending quote " ... he who does The fact that the column by Ch­should perhaps be more con­and beliefs, but this man seems certain subjects and decide not oppose an evident crime is eney is nothing more that the cerned about what this implies to have beliefs which, as he what is ultimately the more open to the suspicion of secret rantings of a lunatic is obvious. about our University rather 
emphasizes, were values in­loving path to take. complicity" makes me wonder The most disturbing facet of than being so quick to applaudstilled in him by the Church, are For many reasons I no longer whether this man's true inten­
this entire event is the defense the plea of the Viewpoint Editor. 

essentially devoid of Jesus' consider myself a Catholic; but tions were simply just to an­of the column by the editor andsupposed message of love for all one major reason is because of nounce to the world that he is 
the editor-in-chief as an ex­Ani Aprahamian

people. the hate that individuals like certainly not gay, and his hope pression of our first amendment Gerald JonesI don't deny that each of the Mr. Fisher spew out of their ig­was that his homophobic re­rights and freedom of speech. William McGlinn
quotes used by Mr. Fisher are norant mouths, all the while marks proved this. Who 
Father Malloy does not wish Jacek Furdynaindeed in the bible and are in­turning to the bible as their knows? 

to accuse the editors due to S.E. Darden

cluded in the laws of the justification. Maybe this man has in fact their inexperience but we are Mitchell Waynechurch. But any ignorant or I'm not claiming to completely doubted his own sexuality, but not willing to do the same. Margaret Dobrowolska-Fur­informed individual can simply understand the bible, but as I he can't reconcile himself in the 
This was an inexcusable dyna

open up the bible, read it, and think many theologians would eyes of the Church, so he has 
judgement call. The fact that Walter R. Johnson

then take the whole thing as the support, the bible is a collection turned .to hatred in an attempt ultimate truth simply because of stories which we must to deny his own feelings. our students are unable to dis­Physics Department faculty they lack the intelligence or interpret with the knowledge This is a far-fetched possibil­tinguish between the ravings of Nov. 9,1992 courage to use their own mind that most of the book was ity, but this man is obviously and consider the possible written decades after the events afraid of something; and he 
Greatest danger is to deny one's

interpretations for the rules or described, and that frequently doesn't seem safe in his own for the book as a whole. the particular author's beliefs beliefs. I guess I just don't quite Furthermore, such a person were portrayed as though all understand why Mr. Fisher feels free speech then has an excuse to hate an­people felt as he or she did -or so threatened. 
Dear Editor: do to criticize him. 

other person, as is unfortu­that they should feel that way. It is just sad that a person People found Cheney's View­Besides, who is to say that
nately shown by Mr. Fisher's The contradictions in the could be preaching so much point column (The Observer, those of us criticizing him are use of the bible in his two-page bible are too many to note here; hatred when he thinks he is Nov. 5) anti-semetic, racist and right?spree of spreading hatred. but, it is clear that one must preaching love for his religion. unfit to be printed in The Ob­The Constitution does not 
If in fact Campus Ministry has think for oneself to gain here It seems to me that something server. Although I do not agree establish a national morality to made any effort to accept gay even a basic understanding of is definitely wrong here. with such racism, printing his which we must conform. We and lesbian members of the the book. Maybe Mr. Fisher has opinion was the right thing to are no more right than he is, school and to offer them a extensively studied the book Roberto Guerra do. except in our own biased eyes. "friendly and compassionate and his remarks of enmity are Grace Hall Cheney is an American citi­The majority of people may welcome," then the Ministry's representative of the Nov. 7, 1992 zen, and this 8ives him the right find his opinions wrong, but 
efforts should be commended, interpretation he gained of the to express htm opinions. Just morality is not determined by a 
because we don't like what he majority vote. has to say doesn't mean he The Observer deserves a should be denied his right to great deal of praise for printing say it. Cheney's opinions. This was a 
We may think his racist opin­courageous demonstration of 
--.
ions are wrong, but it would the paper's commitment to free have been a greater wrong to speech. have denied him his right to Andrew J. DeKever free speech. He has just as St. Edward's Hall much right under the Constitu­Nov. 9, 1992 tion to preach his views as we 


Accent 

page 10 Tuesday, November 10, 1992 
Something New 
Tonight's Spin Doctors performance promises upbeat variety of musical taste 


The album has attracted followers on both college radio Shows like The Cult and 
The Spin Doctors hit Stepan Center tonight at 8:00. Tickets are still available at LaFortune for $10.00.

and album-rock stations, with Lenny Kravitz, who played much listenership on the latter complete show. Concert-goers time in late August to play at a SUB Music Director Ryan during the Spring 1992 medium defecting from the are bound to hear all of their grammar school in nearby Hallford is enthusiastic about semester, cost up to $30,000 for aged sounds of the Grateful favorite songs from Pocket Full Lakeville. the Spin Doctors' performance a one-night show. While 
Dead and their ilk. of Kryptonite and the band's tonight. Hallford resisted giving specific debut LP. "Up For Grabs." But SUB tried to get off on an numbers, he said this year's The Spin Doctors music is, on But unfortunately, the same upbeat musical note this "The Spin Doctors are one of acts are much cheaper. an historical scale of rock, contract prevents any opening semester. An early September the bands that we wanted to get "With a show like the Cult nothing revolutionary, though act from performing with the concert by They Might Be from the beginning," said and Lenny Kravitz, we were the band's musicianship is Spin Doctors. Giants, also held in Stepan Hallford. "Their specialty is live assured of a big loss," he said. indeed excellent, and their Center, drew a near-capacity shows, and we're lucky to have "There was no way we could songs probe emotional subject Tonight's show is the second crowd. the band playing here at this ever break even. matter and rarely use the tired concert sponsored this semester stage in its career." cliches of pop. by the Student Union Board, Several campus organizations "The choice of acts this year which has been active in have tried, with varying has been much more In today's pop music climate, soliciting a wide variety of •. : .•• .•.• .• . . •••. ..:: •••• ••• .••. .:;•:.·• .··.:····.···· .!·•.:. •...•.••..: :.······: .··•·••···•· ·.••...••• .····.···: ..• degrees of success, to bring economically sound."
.:.~~ ..~.~.~ .:~.•.:.•
!.. · ...::..: .•.:.:.i .·. . 

where video and catchy musical acts to perform on talented, intriguing acts to synthesized beats mean more campus. 

Notre Dame this year. The Spin Doctors are tonight's entertainment value. 
American major-label acts. Tostal spring festival, which hit names as They Might Be Giants available for $10, and the show its musical nadir with the 1991 and the Spin Doctors, campus is scheduled to begin at 8:00 
Contractually obligated to appearance of the Guess Who. radio station WVFI has looked p.m. at Stepan Center. perform for at least two hours, The band, incidentally, found into booking dates with King the Spin Doctors put on a 
Dylan's latest effort reveals simplicity, yet honest emotion 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
Good As I Been To You 
After two recent attempts at polished 
Bob Dylan
production, Bob Dylan returns to his roots on "Good As I Been To You," stripping his music down to an acoustic 
* * * * 1/2
guitar, a harmonica and haunting, gravely vocals. 
(out of five) 
The result is quietly refreshing. 
appears. "Darling, will it last?" he
Dylan's new arrangement of 13 
worries in one song. "Tomorrow night,traditional folk songs harkens back to will you say those lovely things you said
his efforts in the early 1960s and 
tonight?"
continues the artist's somehow pre­
Later, he says he'd "rather be in somedictable trend of inconsistency. 
lonely hollow where the sun don't ever
Here, he fires off syllables with 
shine, than to see you be another man's urgency in a tale of a scorned woman darling and to know that you'll never bewho shoots her boyfriend ("Frankie and mine."
Albert"), and he rolls through the lilting But later, he checks his feelings. "Now"Tomorrow Night," wondering whether she's gone, but I don't worry," he sings.
his lover will remember the night be­"'Cause I'm sittin' on top of the world."
fore. 
The ambiguity is captured on the
Dylan weaves his tales with precision, simple "You're Gonna Quit Me." Hecreating suspense and driving home his 
laments that his woman is going to message with repetitive, methodical 
leave him, then concludes that "The day

verse. His biting irony is palpable on 
Photo Courtesy of Columbia Records
you quit me baby, that's the day you"Arthur McBride" as he relays an 
Bob Dylan focuses on simple musical techniques and honest lyrics in his album " Good
die."
encounter with an arrogant army 
As I Been To You"
Other songs are darker. "Many daysrecruiter. 

you lingered all around my cabin door," melodies sparingly. familiar last track, "Froggie Went A­Many of the songs mourn loss, from a sings a weary Dylan. "Aw, hard times, The final end is pure Dylan. Unlike Courtin'," as he puts the songs inconvict losing his freedom and sailing 
come again no more." outings with producers Daniel Lanois on perspective.
the seas toward exile and a chain gang While lyrics are emphasized, Dylan 1989's "Oh Mercy" and Don Was on the He tells the story of Froggie and his("Jim Jones") to a king losing his wife to seems to take more time with his mediocre "Under a Red Sky," here he is bride Miss Mousie, who, after a happythe mysterious "Blackjack Davey." 

accompaniment than on recent efforts, in his element. wedding ceremony, are devoured by anBut Dylan makes it clear that getting showing off his expertise on the acoustic old grey cat and a lily white goose.
over the losses is easier than it first guitar and introducing harmonic Dylan's message is positive on a In the end, he says, life goes on. 

---------~ ----·-·­
Thursday, November 1 0, 1992 The Observer page 11 
Fourth quarter run puts Bulls over Pacers 
tourney'"' 
.-::~·' . . . :.:;:::::::«~'<:·==:::===.·=
tt4ltS Niuonal Intercollegiate Tennis Championship which rvill tak~place -7 in Min­neapoli$. He is tb ond IriSh tennis player to win the event in three years as Dave DiLucia th~ title in 1990. Team­Andy Zurcher advanced the final last season. The 
features 96 of the ~L~JtL~~~" players·in the 
;;:,1.:=::rrq(:=:'j/ 

CHICAGO (AP) -The fourth quarter belonged to 'the Chicago Bulls because the last three minutes belonged to Michael Jordan. 
Jordan, treated for back spasms after the game, scored 10 of his 24 points in the final 
2:57 Monday night, keying a 12­0 game-ending run that gave the Bulls a 102-97 victory over the Indiana Pacers. The outcome enabled Chicago to avoid its second consecutive loss at home. 
"I just asserted myself a little more," said Jordan, who felt back pain Monday morning after practice. "I had it (back pairi) before, but this time it's on the left side. It's just a mat­ter of getting treatment." 
A basket by Reggie Miller, a free throw from Vern Fleming and Sam Mitchell's three-point play with 6:20 left in the game gave the Pacers a 91-84 advan­tage. 
Indiana led 97-90 with 3:11 left before a dunk by Jordan, an 18-foot jumper by B.J. Arm­strong and a bank shot by Jor­dan with 1:28 remaining closed the Bulls to 97-96. 
Then Mitchell grabbed a missed Indiana shot that ap­peared to graze off the rim with 
1:06 left. He called timeout, but officials said the ball did not touch the rim, and gave the Pacers only two seconds to shoot instead of a new 24 sec­onds. 
"Didn't you see Mitchell's shot hit the rim?" Pacers coach Bob Hill asked. "That call was unbelievable and inexcusable." 
The Bulls gained possession after Detlef Schrempf's rushed shot, and Jordan hit a 12-footer with 51 seconds left for a 98-97 lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Penn St•Penn St•Penn St•Penn St  NEED P.S.U. TIX  
L-_N_O_TI_C_Es_  __.l  I.____W_A_N_T_ED_  __.  FOR SALE: call x3346, ask for Levell  BOB 3398  
PENN ST STUD FOR SALE  
12109  I NEED PSU TIX: GAISTU CALL  call 3832 for Chanza  
ATTENTION:  AL: 273-8382  """PENN"PENN"PENN"PENN***  
For more information and  ""TICKETS"TICKETS"TICKETS*"  For sale: Penn State SA  
assistance regarding the  ••••••••••••wANTED**••••••••••••  Call Mike X2060  
investigation of financing, business  Ride to Scranton, PA or any where  I  
opportunities and work-at-home  along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving.  NEED  Need PSU Stud Ticket  
opportunities, THE OBSERVER  Will help with gas, tolls and driving.  4  Jenny x4843  
urges its readers to contact the  Flexible in departure and return  PENN STATE  
Better Business Bureau of  times. CALL JILL@ X4758  GA'S  FOR SALE- 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  1 stud ticket for PENN STATE  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ SPRINGBREAKERS  CALL JEANNE AT 283-2645  call Carolyn x 4570  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ Promote our Florida Spring Break  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  packages. Earn MONEY and FREE  """PENN"PENN"PENN"PENN"""  Need 2 PENN STATE tix  
trips.  "*TICKETS"TICKETS"TICKETS**  Joe X2053  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Campus Marketing.  
800-423-5264.  I still need Penn St GAs  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Pat x2071  
TUTOR NEEDED for Physics 221  
student.  II interested, call Nicole  N E E D  PENN ST &  BC  We NEED PSU GA's and STUDS  
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip  x4530 to discuss times, pay, etc.  -289-6052  
To Bahamas or Panama City!  Please help me outlll  WILL  BEAT  
Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys!  NEED PENN ST. TIX  
Sign-Up Before 12111/92!  El Buen Vecino, a program  ANY  INSANE  NICK X4284  
Springbreak! 1-800-678-6386.  designed to help families in need,  
welcomes blankets, towels, and bed  OFFER  NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS  
linen for four South Bend families.  NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS  
BLOOD DRIVE TODAY  Call Sara Haber at the program  kyle  NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS  
office at 287-8228, 6-8 p.m.  CALL TRISH 283-5255 PLEASE!  
THEODORE'S  weeknights. Delivery may be  
provided if donators have no access  I need 2 Penn St. GA's  
please give blood-please  to a car.  Tad X 1562  
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND OR  WILL  BEAT  I NEED PENN STATE  
WordWorks Typing Service  COLUMBUS NOV20-21. WILL PAY  STUDENTTIX  
Term papers, dissertations, theses  4 GAS CALL RYAN X1605  ANY  INSANE  OFFER  JEFF  "3365  
277-7406  
HELPHELPHELPHELPHELP  GIVEACALL&TRY  ME  Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  
··spring Break!"" Bahamas Cruise  1-800-922-BEAR.  
(+10 Meals) $279!  I need a ride to the  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Panama City with kitchen $119  Lancaster/Columbus, Ohio area  California ALUM desperate for Penn  
Cancun $429! Jamaica $479!  for Thanksgiving break. Will help  I NEED GA'S FOR BC AND PENN  State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. ((  
Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest  with gas, tolls, etc.  ST. 1111 CALL AARON @ 271-2908  (415)597-2319  
$249! Prices increase 12111/921  Call Andy x1300 if you can help  
8  0 6  8  38  NEED: BC AND PENN STATE  Need 4 Penn State Tix  
IL..'L_~­-_~_;__~_F_o_u_N_o_.lt.....o_M_EF_BE-~-~-B-R~-A~-F-~-~-......J  TICKETS. CALL BONNIE X4653 I need 2 GA's for the Penn State game so badly, it's ridiculous. Call  Call Tom X3423 I need as many •• PENN STATE TICKETS••  
LOST: Blue 3.5" floppy disk wallet  AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON  Mark at 4063 and take financial  as you haveII  
Possibly left in Fitzpatrick cluster  WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899.  advantage!  ••Call Tara #4766••  
Call Jeff x2271  
These disks hold my homework!!  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  I need 2 Penn State tickets so bad I  I am in desperate need of 2 Penn  
219-291-7153  could cry. Please call Monica  State GAs.  
LOST: LIGHT PURPLE NYLON SKI  @283-4033.  Jim x4110  
JACKET WITH A STAND-UP ROSE-COLORED COLLAR. CALL  FOR SALE  need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648  
283-3227, SR. ESTELLE.  ###################  
1 week /2 person FLORIDA  NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS  
LOST AT B.C. GAME: black Canon  VACATION with CRUISE to  AND 1 STUD.  I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn  
automatic camera. Probably in  BAHAMAS. Best Offer 288-6811  CALL MURPH X:3451  State Ticket. Either Student or GA.  
parking lot outside stadium,  ###################  Please call Chris x4511  
opposite DeBartolo. PLEASE Call  Apple 12" Color RGB monitor for  
273-2989 if you found it.  Mac  I have money. You have a Penn St  NEED 2 PENN ST-GA OR STUD.  
Only 9 mo. old w/warranty  student ticket or GA. Let's make a  call x4907: leave price and pho#  
LOST: Franklin Word Finder  $310 or b/o  deal. Call Steve at X3407.  
possibly at The Observer or the  Call (908) 382-8253 & ask for Jeff  Need Penn St. GA  
SMC LeMans computer lab.  I NEED A PENN ST. STUDENT TIC  Tony x1786  
Please return if found. Great  For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  X2187 BIL  
sentimental value. REWARD.  Rita Delivery on Campus  Need Penn St Ga's  
284-5334 Eileen.  234-6524  NEED PENN STATE GA'S  Bill x1594  
MATT  x1802  
LOST: Old St. Louis Browns hat.  Cheap trip to southern vactionlandl  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Gray with Brown brim and yellow  NEED  
lettering. Might have been lost near  Selling a plane ticket to North  PENN ST. GAs  I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S/STUDS  
Stepan. Very high sentimental  Carolina over Thanksgiving Break.  PLEASE CALL ME  CALL MIKE X:3343  
value. Call Wally x3443.  You name the price.  SHERRI x2650  
$$Reward$$  Call DAVE at 283-3662.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
One PSU Student Ticket For Sale.  
IIIIWarm red Eddie Bauer jacket  PSU TIX. GA & STUD.  X4459  Call Lisa x1322 with your best  
missing! I!! If found please call me at  offer. You'll be satisfied.  
x2535 ... 1 am very cold!!!l  TICKETS  Need Penn State GA's -$PLEASE  NEED LOTS OF PENN ST. GA'S-CALL TOM  
Lost:  CALL MARY @ 271-7288$  X:3343  
Gold ring with five multi-colored  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  
stones. It was a gift from my late  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  PENN ST. TICKETS AND HOTEL  
grandfather before I came to ND.  ROOMS AVAILABLE FROM THE  
More sentimental value than  I NEED ND FOOTBALL  NOTRE DAME JERSEY SHORE  •••1 NEED 2 PENN STATE TIX,  
monitary worth ... REWARD!III  TICKETS.272-6306  CLUB. PLEASE CALL (908)­ STUD. OR GA:S."** Cara X4045.  
892-0m.  
• I beg of you...Look for my ring •  I need one Penn State GA for my  I need Penn State G.A.'s  
• Lost in the JACC arena area  •  little brother who is a high school  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call Brian at  x1771  
• I am unable to study w/o it II  sophmore.  need tix for PENN STATE  
Call Jim@ 289-1989.  call LAURIE x2998  
If found please call Sue X2494 II  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED 4  PSU GA'S  
Call anytime I (Shaw will be  TICKETS NEEDED-Penn St GA's­ SET YOUR PRICE!I  
annoyed if you call too early, but I  Dan#1 852-$$4U  I NEED 2 PENN ST. GAs I!! x4074  CALL JEFF X1244  
can handle herlll)  
------­----.  

Badly in need of Penn State GA's Will pay top dollar Tim x3382 
Hello-we need a couple of Penn State GA's, please call 272-8503 if you have any. ask for Mike or Chris 
It's amazing the things I would do for you If you would sell me two PENN ST. GA's. I'm desperate, I'm easy and best of all I'm FILTHY RICH. Try me, NOWII LISA X1748 
I NEED ONE PENN ST. GA! Call Marty X1206 
•• 2 PENN STATE GAS FOR SALE•• ••••••1 PENN STUD FOR SALE• ..... call 4455 for Jeanne or Kenya 
NEED PENN ST. STUDENT TIX MATT x1802 
HELP!!!!! I need 3 student tix and 3 G.A.'s for Penn Statell Call Jeff at x1738$$ 
@$#%•&"(1+)? :< 
PENN STATE FOR SALE 
MY family cannot come so I'm selling their tickets [ BOTH GAs & STUDENTS] so I can go to USC (nice weather)llllllll 
Mike 283-1161 
)*•(%$#@1•#<"}. 
I need 2 PSU stud tix badly!!! Call Jim. x1718 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I WILL PAY BIG BUCK$ FOR YOUR PENN STATE GA'SIII CALL RICH X3367 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
"*HELP I .. NEED ONE PENN ST. STUD. CALL PATSY x4876 
Penn nx 4 sale 2711514 
I NEED PENN STATE GA'S OR STUDENT TICKETS 
CALL MARK AT 283-1684 
3PSU Stud Tix 4 Sale B/0 x4246 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED PENN STATE GAS LOTS OF THEM TOM: 3593 CALLNOWI $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED. CALL BILL 212-272-3506 OR 212-535-1817. 
I need Penn STate tickets for wealthy business man.Call x1480. Brian. 
PERSONAL 
HeyNiff 
MJF-Feliz Cumpleanos!-KAS 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. 
MEN AND WOMEN FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE For more info, call COSIMO'S 
277-1875. 
To the well-endowed male strippers at Cavanaugh: Do you hire out for PRIVATE showings? 
-Three Lewis admirers 
!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!11!111!!11!!!!!!!1111111!!1!!11!1!!1!!1!1 !!!!!! 
If you bought my. Penn State ticket, please give me a call. Kerry x3619 
111111111!1111111!11!1111!!!!!!!!!1!!11111111111!11!!!111 !!!1!1 
MARGE 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
I II I I I ! ! II I 
Hobbes is still not 21, too bad some day you'll drink with us I ! I I I I I I I I I 
DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll love this 3rd grade boy who needs tu1or. Call me collect in NY for more info @ 71 8-325-9642 or esc. 
DIET MAGIC I 30 lbs. 30 days. $30. Call (616)471-3970 
BOZOS AND OZONE PEOPLE: . Buy my round trip wkend COMAIR use by 12115 call 273-8463 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES FOR LIBERAL ARTS STUDENTS will be discussed today (Tuesday) at 4:30 in the Foster Room, 3rd floor, LaFortune. EUGENE FANNING, professor of Business Communications at ND, will give the talk. All are welcome. Sponsored by the ARTS AND LETTERS BUSINESS SOCIETY. 
Kerry, Happy Anniversary, Sweetie I Let's do Spagettios and Pez ... 
Love, The Cinnaman 
NEED A HOTEL ROOM FOR SAT. 14TH? IF YOU'D LIKE MY DAYS INN RESERVATION CALLX3646 
Needed Penn State tixs GA's and Student, Call Jim 271-1863 
Penn State Student Ticket for Sale -Call Jordan x3049 

page 12 The Observer Tuesday, November 10, 1992 

NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet PF PA Home 
Buffalo 7 2 0 .778 234 149 4-1-0 
Miami 7 2 0 .778 230 151 3-1-0 
lndnplis 4 5 0 .444 99 186 2-3-0 
NY Jets 2 7 0 .222 146 188 2-2-0 
New England 0 9 0 .000 101 223 0-5-0 
Central 
Pttsburgh 6 3 0 .667 179 125 3-0-0 
Cleveland 5 4 0 .556 141 145 2-2-0 
Houston 5 4 0 .556 213 165 3-2-0 
Cincnnati 4 5 0 .444 170 212 2-2-0 
West 
Denver 6 3 0 .667 148 170 5-0-0 
Kan. City 5 4 0 .556 169 142 4-1-0 
San Diego 4 5 0 .444 144 152 3-2-0 
LA Raidrs 3 6 0 .333 132 168 2-2-0 
Seattle 1 8 0 .111 56 174 0-4-0 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet PF PA Home 
Dallas 8 1 0 .88g 224 125 5-0-0 
Phila 6 3 0 .667 184 107 5-0-0 
Washingtn 6 3 0 .667 159 132 4-1-0 
NY. Giants 5 4 0 .556 201 175 3-2-0 
Phoenix 3 6 0 .333 157 205 2-2-0 
Central 
Minnesota 7 2 0 .778 ?46 144 3-1-0 
Chicago 4 5 0 .444 207 224 3-3-0 
Green Bay 3 6 0 .333 124 191 2-1-0 
Tampa Bay 3 6 0 .333 164 210 2-3-0 
Detroit 2 7 0 .222 163 199 1-4-0 
West 
NewOrlns 7 2 0 .778 171 117 3-1-0 
San Fran 6 2 0 .750 230 149 2-1-0 
Atlanta 3 5 0 .375 163 207 3-1-0 
LA Rams 3 6 0 .333 163 183 3-1-0 
Sunday's Games 
Cleveland 24, Houston 14 
Dallas 37, Detroit 3 
New York Giants 27, Green Bay 7 
Philadelphia 31, Los Angeles Raiders 10 
Miami 28, Indianapolis 0 
Minnesota 35, Tampa Bay 7 
New Orleans 31, New England 14 
Denver 27, New York Jets 16 
Phoenix 20, Los Angeles Rams 14 
Buffalo 28, Pittsburgh 20 
Kansas City 16, San Diego 14 
Washington 16, Seattle 3 
Cincinnati 31, Chicago 28, OT 
Monday's Game 
San Francisco at Atlanta, 9 p.m. 
Sunday, Nov. 15 
Cincinnati at New York Jets, 1 p.m. 
Detroit at Pittsburgh, 1 p.m. 
Houston at Minnesota, 1 p.m. 
New England at Indianapolis, 1 p.m. 
Philadelphia vs. Green Bay, at Milwaukee, 1 p.m. 
Phoenix at Atlanta, 1 p.m. 
San Diego at Cleveland, 1 p.m. 
Washington at Kansas City, 1 p.m. 
Los Angeles Rams at Dallas, 4 p.m. 
Chicago at Tampa Bay, 4 p.m. 
New Orleans at San Francisco. 4 p.m. 
Seattle at Los Angeles Raiders. 4 p.m. 
New York Giants at Denver. 8 p.m. 
Monday, Nov. 16 
Buffalo at Miami, 9 p.m. 
Away 3-1-0 4-1-0 2-2-0 0-5-0 0-4-0 
3-3-0 3-2-0 2-2-0 2-3-0 
1-3-0 1-3-0 1-3-0 1-4-0 1-4-0 
Away 3-1-0 1-3-0 2-2-0 2-2-0 1-4-0 
4-1-0 1-2-0 1-5-0 1-3-0 1-3-0 
4-1-0 4-1-0 0-4-0 0-5-0 AFC 5-2-0 5-2-0 3-5-0 2-4-0 0-6-0 
6-2-0 4-4-0 5-4-0 3-3-0 
6-1-0 4-3-0 4-5-0 2-4-0 1-5-0 
AFC 3-0-0 2-1-0 2-0-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 
1-0-0 0-1-0 2-1-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 
1-0-0 2-1-0 1-1-0 2-2-0 NFC 2-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-0 0-3-0 0-3-0 
0-1-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 
0-2-0 1-1-0 0-0-0 1-2-0 0-3-0 
NFC 5-1-0 4-2-0 4-3-0 4-3-0 3-6-0 
6-2-0 4-4-0 1-5-0 3-5-0 2-7-0 
6-2-0 4-1-0 2-4-0 1-4-0 Div 4-1-0 3-2-0 2-2-0 2-2-0 0-4-0 
3-1-0 2-1-0 2-3-0 1-3-0 
3-1-0 4-1-0 2-3-0 1-2-0 0-3-0 
Div 4-1-0 3-2-0 1-3-0 2-1-0 1-4-0 
6-1-0 3-2-0 1-3-0 2-4-0 2-4-0 
2-1-0 3-0-0 1-2-0 0-3-0 New York Rangers 2, Boston 2, tie 
WALES CONFERENCE  
Patrick Division  
w L  T  Pts  GF  GA  
Pittsburgh 11 3  2  24  79  56  
NY Rangers 9 4  2  20  59  47  
New Jersey 8 6  0  16  50  49  
NY Islanders 6 8  1  13  51  53  
Washington 6 8  1  13  48  49  
Philadelphia 4 8  3  11  56  65  
Adams Division  
Montreal 10 3  2  22  66  49  
Boston 8 2  2  18  59  38  
Quebec 7 5  3  17  67  59  
Buffalo 6 6  2  14  71  58  
Hartford 3 10  1  7  37  61  
Ottawa 1 12  1  3  32  78  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Norris Division  
w  T  Pts  GF  GA  
Chicago 7 6  3  17  61  53  
Detroit 8 7  0  16  58  55  
Minnesota 7 5  2  16  48  47  
Toronto 7 5  2  16  47  44  
Tampa Bay 6 8  2  14  57  54  
St. Louis 5 9  11  53  68  
Smythe Division  
Calgary 10 4  2  22  72  52  
Los Angeles 10 4  1  21  72  54  
Vancouver 7 5  2  16  57  44  
Edmonton 5 8  2  12  46  59  
Winnipeg 4 11  0  8  47  66  
San Jose 3 11  1  7  43  78  
Saturday's Games  
Philadelphia 4, St. LOUIS 2  
Chicago 7, Quebec 4  

Tampa Bay 6, New York Islanders 5, OT 
Washington 6, Hartford 2 
Montreal 5, Detroit 1 
Toronto 4, Pittsburgh 2 
Edmonton 2, Minnesota 2. tie 
Los Angeles 5, Buffalo 2 
New Jersey 6, San Jose 1 Sunday's Games 
Calgary 5, Quebec 5, tie 
Vancouver 6, Winnipeg 1 
Chicago 7, Pittsburgh 2 
Los Angeles 11 , San Jose 4 Monday's Games 
Toronto at Ottawa, 7:40p.m. 
Calgary at Montreal, 7:40p.m. 
Tampa Bay at New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. Tuesday's Games Pittsburgh at Minnesota. 8:10p.m. Edmonton at St. Louis, 8:40p.m. 
Los Angeles at Winnipeg, 8:40p.m 
San Jose at Vancouver. 10:40 p.m. 
Lightning-Rangers, Sums Tampa Bay 1 2 2-5 
N.Y. Rangers 0 0 1-1 
First Period-1, Tampa Bay, Kontos 15 (Bradley, Bureau), 14:11. Penalties-None. 
Second Period-2, Tampa Bay, Hamrlik 3 (M.Andersson, Cole), 7:55. 3, Tampa Bay Kontos 16 (Creighton, Beers), 17:04 (sh). Penalties-Hartman, TB, major-misconduct (fighting), g:02; Domi, NY. major-misconduct 

CRUISE JOBS 
Happy 20'h
Students Needed! F.arn$2,00()+/month workingforcrui9eshipeor tour companies. Holiday, Summer, and Full­Tune employment available. For your '<Il./'93 employment program call; 
Birthday Sean!
Cnliu Employment Serrrlces 
(206) 634-0468 Exl c 5584 
You finally made itl 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 5:00 P.M. 11/9/92 Love, 
Mom, Dad,
ANTH 454 01 3454 ARCH 598B 01 0420 
Mary &Tuffy
ARCH 598F 01 0269 COTH 435 01 4196 COTH 436 01 4197 
ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL FIN GSC HIST HIST MI MSA MSA MUS PHIL PHIL PSY RLST 412C 414B 4161 416] 422 426F 455B 462B 513B 522A 231 498 460A 699 434 546 547 226 246 697 538E 351 
01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 12 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 42 
4227 4713 4228 4634 1022 4230 4234 4237 4220 4218 1714 1240 4312 1122 457ti 4438 1815 0032 2483 4724 4741 9542 
Are you considering theological education? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY THE DIVINITY SCHOOL is holding general information sessions 
Come learn about our master's degree programs, including Master of Theological Studies and Master of Divinity Dual degree options and cross-registration opportunities with the other HaJVard graduate faculties 
Meet With A Representative: Date: Thursday, November 12th Time: 10:00-11:00 am Place: 108 O'Shaughnessy Hall All students, All majors, All years welcome 
(fighting), 9:02; Bradley, TB (hooking), 13:44; Cole, TB (high-sticking), 16:10. 
Third Period-4, Tampa Bay, Zamuner 3 (Tucker), 5:52. 5, Tampa Bay, M.Andersson 3 (Hartman, Hodge), 14:13. 6, New York. Turcotte 7 (Graves. Leetch), 
16:30 (pp). Penalties-Zamuner, TB (hooking), 8:39; Messier, NY (tripping), 9:09; Hodge, TB (holding stick), 14:41; Bureau, TB (holding), 19:31. 
Shots on goal-Tampa Bay 13-9-8-30. New York 12-10-11-33. Power-play Opportunities-Tampa Bay 0 of 1; New York 1 of 5. 
Goalies-Tampa Bay, Jablonski, 4·2-2 (33 shots-32 saves). New York, Richter, 6·3-1 (30·25). 
A-18,200. Referee-Ron Hoggarth. Linesmen­Gord Broseker, Mark Pare. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Named Earl Winn area scout for Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee. 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Announced Carlton Fisk, catcher, waived his right as a veteran player to be protected by Chicago in the expansion draft. 
SEATTLE MARINERS-Named Lou Piniella manager, Ken Griffey, Sr. hitting coach, and Sam Perlozzo third base coach. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Named Willie 
Upshaw batting coach. 
National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Named Tony Muser bullpen coach. Waived Hector Villanueva, catcher, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Signed Jim McNa­mara, catcher, and assigned him to Edmon­ton of the Pacific Coast League. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
NBA-Fined Vernon Maxwel, Houston Rockets guard, $7,000 for committing a fla­grant foul in a game on Nov. 6. 
NEW JERSEY NETS-Signed R1ck Ma­
horn, forward. Wa1ved Doug Lee, guard. 
FOOTE:! ALL 
National Football League 
NFL-Suspended Eric Green. Pittsburgh Steelers tight end, for six games for violation of the league's substance abuse policy. 
ATLANTA FALCONS-Activated Tony 
Jones, wide receiver, from injured reserve. 
Wa1ved George Thomas, wide receiver. 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Wa1ved Paul 
McJulien. punter. Signed Bryan Wagner. 
punter. 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-S1gned Bryan Cox. 
linebacker. to a contract extension through 
1995. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League PITTSBURGH PENGUINS-Signed Paul Stanton, defenseman. 

ST. LOUIS BLUES-Assigned Bret Hedi· can and Dan Laperriere, defensemen, to Peoria of the International Hockey League. 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Division 

W  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  2  0  1.000  
Orlando  .  2  0  1.000  
Boston  1  1  .500  1  
Miami  1  1  .500  1  
New Jersey  1  1  .500  1  
Philadelphia  0  2  .000  2  
Washington  0  2  .000  2  
Central Division  
Milwaukee  2  0  1.000  
Atlanta  1  .500  
Charlotte  1  .500  
Chicago  .500  
Cleveland  .500  
Detroit  .500  
Indiana  0  1  .000  1 112  
WESTERN  CONFERENCE  
Midwest Division  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Denver  .500  
Utah  1  1  .500  
Dallas  0  1  .000  112  
Houston  0  2  000  1  
Minnesota  0  2  .000  
San Antonio  0  2  .000  
Pacific Division  
Golden State  2  0  1.000  
Sacramento  2  0  1.000  
Seattle  2  0  1.000  
Phoenix  1  0  1.000.  112  
Portland  1  0  1.000  112  
LA Lakers  1  .500  1  
LA Clippers  0  2  .000  2  
Saturday's  Games  
New York 89, Philadelphia 85  
Orlando 103, Washington 98  
Miami 106, New Jersey 94  
Detroit 89, Indiana 87  

Golden State 121, Minnesota 119, OT Atlanta 100, Chicago 99 Utah 122. Dallas 106 Milwaukee 124, Boston 88 Denver 125, San Antonio 121. 20T Phoenix 111. LA Clippers 1OS Seattle 89, Houston 85 
Sunday's Games Cleveland 127, Charlotte 107 Portland 123, Denver 104 Sacramento 124, LA Lakers 114 
Monday's Game Indiana at Chicago. 8:30 p.m 

Tuesday's Games New Jersey at New York, 7:30p.m Boston at Miam1, 7:30p.m. Washington at Cleveland. 7:30p.m. Charlotte at Orlando. 8 p.m. Dallas at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Milwaukee at San Anton1o. 8:30p.m Utah at Denver, 9 p.m. LA Lakers at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. LA Clippers at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m Phoenix at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 

The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 

SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure thaJ you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) 

Open 8 a.m. on home game days! 
•All Turkey Based 


---~-----------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 10, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Piniella inks contract with Mariners 
SEATTLE (AP)-Lou Piniella, who managed Cincinnati to a world championship two years ago, could find himself starting near the bottom of the baseball heap with the Seattle Mariners next season. 
Piniella, 49, has signed a three-year deal with the Mariners worth a total of $2.5 million, with an option for a fourth year, according to a re­port published today in the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. 
In addition, former Reds star Ken Griffey, whose son Ken Jr. plays center field and anchors the Seattle lineup, will be named batting coach, the paper reported. 
Piniella and Mariners general manager Woody Woodward arrived from Florida Sunday afternoon and met with other club officials to finalize the con­tract, the newspaper said. 
Team officials have not con­firmed reports of Piniella's ap­pointment, and Piniella could not be reached for comment Sunday at his Allendale, N.J., home. A news conference was to be scheduled for today to an­nounce the deal, the newspaper said. 
rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!;l $716,000 in the final part.of his 
The Notre Dame Men's Basketball Team 
presents the 

Blue • Gold Game at the J .A.C.C. This Wednesday, November II Tickets $2 
Tickets available Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday at the Dining Halls, or Wednesday 6p.m. @ J.A.C.C Practice 6:30 p.m. Game 8:00 p.m. You're invited to both! 
Benefits Neighborhood Study Help Program 
The University of Notre Dame 
Department of Music presents 

Tmo conmts commrmorating thr fior-hundrcdth anniorrsarJ! of his drath in 1192 

pomrrium ;qumcrs (nrm york, n ~ 
Alexander Blachly, director Sunday, 8 November 1992 8:15pm 
Thr Orlando Gonsort (London, england) 
Tuesday, 10 November 1992 8:00pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Both concerts are free and open w the general public 

Presented in conjunction with the NFH conference Continuities and Transformations in Musical Culture, 1450-1500: Assessing the Legacy of Antoine Busnoys 8 • 1 1 N o v e m b e r 1 9 9 2 and made po>Sible with funds from the Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine Am of the University ofNotre Dame 
AP Filephoto Lou Piniella, former manager of the Reds, has signed with Seatle. 
Piniella spent two days in Seattle last week discussing .the Mariners' top coaching job with team executives. He made no secret of his interest. 
"They've got a good organiza­tion led by a good baseball man, Woody Woodward, and a group of local owners who are committed to winning," he said. 
Woodward has said that hiring a veteran manager such as Piniella would show the Mariners' new owners are committed to winning. 
"Lou's a winner," Woodward said. "We need a winner, someone who can teach our players what it takes to win." 
Piniella and Woodward worked together with the New York Yankees in 1986-1987, when Piniella was manager and Woodward ran the front office. 
The Mariners have had only one winning season in their 16­year history. Manager Bill Plummer and the entire coaching staff were fired in mid-October after the team went 64-98 this year, finishing last in the American League. 
Piniella managed Cincinnati to the World Series title in 1990, a fifth-place National League West finish in 1991 and a sec­ond-place finish behind Atlanta this season. Piniella also man­aged the New York Yankees from 1986-88, leading the team to records of 90-72, 89-73 and 45-48, respectively. 
He left the Reds last month after failing to reach agreement with owner Marge Schott on a new contract. Piniella made between $650,000 and 
three-year contract with Cincinnati. 
Piniella could come to the Mariners with a full coaching staff. Jackie Moore, Stan Williams, Sam Perlozzo and John McLaren, who worked for him in Cincinnati, are all avail­able. 
The Post-lntelligencer quoted an unnamed source within the Mariners organization as saying Ken Griffey would be signed to a two-year contract as batting coach. 
Griffey spent the 1992 season working as a minor league bat­ting instructor and part-time TV announcer in Seattle. 
Bring a Friend Special 
Regular price--$7 ea. 
Bring 1 friend--$6.50 ea. 
Bring 2 or 3 friends--$6 ea. 
(Limit 4 per group) 
R.O.T.C. Cuts are our Specialty 
OPEN Tues-Fri 9-5 Saturday 9-2 
272-2020 
........................................................................... 

For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses Saturday, November 21
Friday, November 20 8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
A time of quid mrd personal reflection, tire retreat will itrcludc opportunity for sJrared reflection. Presentations will focus on tire l>!l>lrml text> of Adve11t. 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
CALL BY FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, TO RESERVE A PLACE Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 
Rangers, ;.rdhto win 
Mathieu Schneider. Vincent 
leads the Adams 
Chris Lindberg and Sergei Makarov scored for Calgary, 
choice of the Rangers in 1982, (lQ-5·2). which holds a one­had never scored more .than point Smythe J)vision lead over eight goals in an NHL sf:lasJn; lAs Angeles. He is secondin NHL goal scor~ The Flames were coming off i.ng to Pittsburgh•s Mario a $:..5 tie Sunday afternoon in Lemieux. who leads the league Quebec that began a five-game 
21. road trip, 
The Canadiens played a strong checking game and out­shot the Flames 28-22. Each team scored on its first shot. 
Toronto 3. Ottawa 1 
Mike Foligno scored a pair of 
power-play goals as the . Toronto Maple Leafs defeated · the Ottawa Senators 3-1 Mon­
day night and took over first place in the Norris Division. 
'fhe Leafs (8·5-2) are a single ahead .qf Chica.go in the v;t;,,•u•~· Five of Toronto's ·hay~ come against -"··-~······•tJr seeond-year 
teams. -~.·sooted for the converted two of 
• 



page 14 The Observer Tuesday, November 1 0, 1992 
• 49ers profit off Atlanta turnovers 
ATLANTA (AP) -The San Francisco 49ers 
made sure there wouldn't be an end-of-the-game 
"Hail Mary" winner for Atlanta this time. 
Steve Young passed for three touchdowns and the 49ers defense came up with six turnovers Monday night to crush the Falcons 41-3 for the second time in three weeks. 
The 49ers (7-2) climbed back into a tie with 
New Orleans for first place in the NFC West and 
the Falcons fell to 3-6. 
Young's scoring passes covered 12 yards to Odessa Turner in the first quarter, 21 yards to Ricky Watters in the second and 19 yards to Jerry Rice in the final period. 
Merton Hanks fielded a bouncing punt less than two minutes after the Rice touchdown and returned it 48 yards for another score. 
The Niners, who buried Atlanta 56-17 three weeks earlier in San Francisco, have twice been victims of "Hail Mary" passes in Atlanta -losing 17-14last year and 28-24 in 1983. 
Tom Rathman scored the other touchdown on a 2-yard run and Mike Cofer kicked field goals of 40 and 32 yards. 
Atlanta got a 33-yard field goal from Norm Johnson with two seconds left in the half, cutting the lead to 14-3. It capped a 75-yard drive in which Billy Joe Tolliver accounted for all the yardage while completing six of eight passes. 
The tone was set early when Keith Jones took in a short pass from Tolliver and fumbled it away, Bill Romanowski claiming it for the 49ers on the Atlanta 48. 
It took nine plays for Young to convert it into a lead the 49ers never lost. Young completed four passes for 34 yards and Watters ran for 17 yards in the drive that ended with the 12-yard pass to Turner with 4:54left in the first period. Young set up his 21-yard scoring pass to 
The 49ers failed to convert another first­Watters with a 20-yarder to Brent Jones at the quarter turnover into points. Atlanta 31 late in the second quarter. 
Three plays after the Young to Turner Cofer's first field goal capped a 25-yard, eight­touchdown, Don Griffin intercepted a Tolliver play drive and the 32-yarder came after Rison's pass off Andre Rison's hands at the Atlanta 43. fumble was recovered by Michael McGruder on San Francisco failed to move and had to punt. the Atlanta 35. 
San Francisco also wasted a 43-yard run by Deion Sanders dropped the ensuing kickoff and Watters to its 48 after Johnson had punted 37 Amp Lee recovered at the Atlanta 26, setting up 

yards on a fake field goal, out of bounds on the Rathman's 2-yard scoring run. 
Blow to Stealers as tight end Green suspended 
PJTTSBURGH fAP) - The  had any until guard Terry Long  The Steelers' chief offensive  
Pittsburgh Steelers, in con·  and running back Tim Worley  weapon  last  season  until  
tention for their first division  were suspended in 1991. The  breaking an ankle late in the  
title since 1984. received a  two were the only NFL players  season. he bas been over­ 
huge blow today when tight  suspended for drug violations  shadowed somewhat this sea­ 
end Eric Green was suspended  last season.  son by the emergence of run­ 
for six games for violating the  ning back Barry Foster and  
NFL's drug policy.  Long flunked a steroids test,  wide receiver JeffGraham.  
There was no immediate  while Worley was suspended  
word  on why Green would  afte.~ twic,e failing tests for  Green,  who  missed four  
have flunked a drug test, but  cocaine. He is sitting out this  games  after  undergoing  
an NFL spokesman who did  season  after  missing  two  arthroscopic knee surgery, had  
not want to be identified said it  mandatory drug. tests last win­ four catches for 41 yards in the  
was not for using steroids.  ter. Long is now out offootball.  Steelers' 26-20 loss Sunday in  
The drug-related suspension ,  Green's ~uspension mean~ b.~  Buffalo. He has 14 receptions  
was the third in two seasons "'  cannot return until the final  for 152 yards and two touch·  
for the Steelers, who bad never  week of the regular season.  downs this season.  


Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 ~ '94 school year Call232 ~ 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,on.'ID9
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
lmm$
DAYTONA BEACH 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
'"""' 81 
STEAMBOAT ,,om$f29 
2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS ltono$fJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND flom$f2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE 

'"""'146
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual 
Party! 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 
1 ·800·321 ·591 1 
Men 
continued from page 16 
to connect with Dan Morrison on key gains. Zahm's Paul Shuga ended the threat with an interception in the endzone. 
Keenan 3, Planner 0 
Keenan kept alive its bid to repeat as interhall champion by shutting out powerful Planner in a defensive struggle that, like the other semifinal, was won on a key turnover. 
In a first-half plagued by turnovers, Keenan opened by moving the ball well on the ground behind Brian Murphy. Planner ended the drive and took over possession on forced a fumble. 
Doo to the scrambling speed of quarterback Tim Kusserow, Planner marched downfield, but could not convert as Jack Macleod missed a 29-yard field goal wide right. 
Planner had two other scor­ing opportunities in the first half. A fumble recovery by Keenan's Mike Vanderpoel thwarted one chance, while the strong play of Murphy on the defensive line stopped the other. 
Women 
continued from page 16 
For BP, Jessica Raniszeski had a strong game with a thirty yard run. On defense for Walsh, Laura Lavigne played well, and Jenny Reilly added an important interception. 
Siegfried 7, Lewis 0 
Siegfried's defense managed to hang tough and shut down the strong Lewis offense in the Slammers win over the Chick­ens last Sunday. 
Siegfried's front line of Juliet Dickman, Laurie Stride, and , and Caryn Kikta, and lineback­ers Rachel Mitchell, Beth Kueter, and Ann Lillie helped Lisa Glowacki, Sam Spencer, and Megan Frost to halt Lewis' passing game. Siegfried quar­

Planner's Kusserow was forced to leave the game in the first half after suffering a con­cussion, hitting his head on the chain after falling out of bounds on a scramble attempt. Mike Huie came in to finish out the game for Planner. 
The beginning of the second half was the key period of the game. 
Planner opened the half on offense, but was forced to punt. Keenan's Dave Dettore stormed through the line and blocked the kick. Keenan recovered the loose ball in excellent field posi­tion. 
Behind an offensive line an­chored by Scott Sauer and Bill McCarthy, Keenan drove to the Planner 19 on the strength of tailbacks Dettore and Murphy and quarterback Matt Casey. When the touchdown drive stalled, kicker Josh Tullis came on to nail the game winning field goal, a 36-yard kick. 
Planner was able to mount two more good drives, but but in both cases Keenan was up to the challenge. Behind the passing of Huie and the running of Macleod, Planner steadily moved the ball into Keenan territory, until on a second down R.J. Sandine stopped the Planner run for a big loss. Rich Toohey batted down a pass in the secondary on third down to end the drive. 
terback Marcie McNeil com­pleted a 35 yd, pass to Mar­garet Zimmerman to set up a one yd touchdown run by Mc­Neil, and they managed to con­vert the extra point with a pass to Suzanne Juster. 
Near the close of the first half, Lewis completed a 25 yd pass which gave them fourth and one on Siegfried's 20 yd. line, but an incomplete pass gave Siegfried the ball. Lewis' defense also held Siegfried twice on fourth and goal in the second half to keep themselves in the game, but were unable to score. Lewis' Meghan Hey­ward, Erica Hellman, and Tracy Cote turned in strong games. And Julie Fleck, Annette Puutz, and Jeny Schellenberger all had strong seasons. 
"These girls have practiced hard all year with one goal in mind-to win it all," said Siegfried coach Mark Falcione. The Slammers face a strong Walsh team this Sunday. 
1r1UJROCIEY SIHI(())([))1r 
TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 

CO·REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN AND 2 MEN PER TEAM OPEN TO ALL UNDERGRADS & GRAD STUDENTS TO BE HELD AT THE STADIUM FIRING RANGE 
ENTER GATE 14 
REGISTER AT THE RuSports OFFICE IN THE JACC 
CONTEST TO BE HELD 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16 4 • 6 PM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17 4 • 6 PM 
FlltST PLACE TEAM WINS DIINNER AT JI(IJitJTUCKY Pllll!D OUCIKJEN 
CONDUCTED BY NOTRE DAME NAVAL ROTC MEMBERS OF ROTC RIFLE SQUAD I!!QI_ELIGIDLE 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
Today 

Tuesday, November 1 0, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




CALVIN AND HOBBES 

ITS IJNIQ\£ Cfi:S\<:,~ ~ ('.. BL\1-\D\~I:s S\W..'{ ()\ Sl\OW Cl\-1 1\S Pr>SSffiGB2S ~~ \1-\E SLIG\-\~S\ BIJMI'. ~\£,100, n\E Ll\<:.'1':. cr ~~ Slt.tRI~E. 
MK\-\~\St-"1. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 22 Clear a tape 23Watchman
t Agile 25 With "long," this 5 Kind of shaft or means soon corder 26Cuomoora Gregory Hines Lanzamedium 27 School org. 
t t Skin-cream 28 Accumulationingredient 32 Playing hooky, 12 Love or Suez 
in away t4Spanish 
36 Tierney or 

container 
Hackman t5 Early TV good 37 Bush's guy command: ta Soap ingredient 
1976-77 36 Comic Soupy 

t9"What a bummer!" 39 N.J. neighbor 
2oChess­
40Woman's tournament 
garment accessory 42 Type of truck 21 Good or indoor 45 Bags of cotton chaser 46 Fragrance 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
47 Neb. Indian 48Airhead 5t Starting point 54 Words of 
understanding 55 Dunker seGaze 
amorously 57 Four-poster, 
e.g. sa-Aviv 59 Author Bellow 
DOWN 
t Political satirist 2 Ruse 3 Lasso material 4 Affirmative vote 5 Yellow bird &Dread 7 Singer Davis &Has a goat 9 Conductor 
Previn 
BILL WATIERSON 
39 Mrs. Bruce Willis 45 Wilderness 40 "A-of Rain," 
Road traveler 
1957 movie 48 It's a long story 4t Flying 49lra Glasser's 42 VCR control 
org. button soDoaKP job 43 Supplied with 5t Small sail weapons 52 0btained 44"Noway!" 53-Alamos 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


@1987 FarWorks. Inc./Distributed by Umversal Press Synd~te 
Mutants on the Bounty 

LECTURE 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m. Lecture: "Report on CELAM IV," Father Robert Pelton. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Peace Studies. 4 p.m. Lecture: "Prospects for Peace in the Baltics," Raimo Vayrynen. professor, University of Helinski, Finland. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 4 p.m. Faculty Panel, A Vindication of the Rights of Women: A Celebration at 200 Years, "Feminism and the Family: 
Current Debates." Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's College. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "Genesis of a Slander: Columbus, Catholics, and the New World," Father Marvin O'Connell. Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by History Department, Saint Mary's College. 


SUPER PRIZES 
ONE lilt Pftta PE8 $AtOM 
FREE HAiflC:Ul$ f(IH 1 YI!AI\ · fiVE 2nd 1'81%£$ hH PUJW Aft lHfiiVmUA1. NAIR CUI ONE NAT'l GRAJID PRIZE 
2TICKEDTO 
SUPER BOWL 
XXVII 
r---------------, 
I I
$1 
I SAVE I
I I I WET CARE CUT I 
I I
1 Not Valid With Any Other Offers or Coupons 1 
L---~~~~~n~~~2---.J 
r---------------,
$1995
I Perm Special I I Includes Shampoo & Conditioner. I I Prices for longer hair will be higher & I I specialty wraps will be higher I I Offer Good w/Coupon I
I Appointments Recommended I 
L----~~~~~~~----.J 

r---------------,
1  EuroTan  1  
I  Tanning Beds  I  
:  10 visits for$35  :  
I  I  
I  Appointments Recommended  I  

L----~~~~~~~----.J 
SUPER 
VALUE 
Shampoo
Cut & Style ONLY$ 95 


... 
Sports 

... 
page 16 

MIKE 
SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
Reggie Brooks runs from shadows into Heisman race 
When the college football season began many believed that the race for the Heisman Trophy would involve a player or two from Notre Dame. This belief has come true; however, it is Reggie Brooks, not Rick Mirer nor Jerome Bettis that could find himself at the Downtown Athletic Club on Decem­ber fifth. 
Though not too many have said it, Brooks is a Heisman candidate. 
Not to take anything away from the Irish's preseason hopefuls. but Brooks has simply outplayed them. While Mirer has been solid, he has not been outstanding. Bettis has gained the attention of a lot of defenses, but has been hampered by injuries and high expectations. 
Meanwhile, the "forgotten man" in the Notre Dame backfield· has been spectacular all year. For the first few weeks, Brooks' success was supposedly because he was an unknown quantity. 
However, Brooks' 174 yards against a Boston College defense that was ranked seventh in the country established him as one of the nation's top players. It was the fourth time this season he has rushed for more than 100 yards, and he was named the NBC/Chevrolet Notre Dame MVP for the fourth time in five Irish home games. 
In a season where the preseason candidates have faded quickly , Brooks is one of the few remaining contenders who has performed consistently well. Even when an injury kept him out of the starting lineup against Pitt and BYU, he still managed to gain 84 and 112 yards respectively. 
Though its hard to imagine a Heisman candidate from Notre Dame suffering from a lack of attention, this is just what has happened to Brooks. While Georgia's Garrison Hearst and San Diego State's Marshall Faulk were gaining national headlines, Brooks was just beginning to emerge from Mirer's and Bettis' shadows. 
Hearst and Faulk have both rushed for more yards than Brooks, but they have done it as their team's primary or, in Faulk's case, only offensive threat. Brooks has amassed 1,038 yards on only 12.5 carries, while he has shared the offensive burden with Mirer, Bettis and countless others. 
Brooks makes up for being behind in total yards by leading the other two in average yards per carry. His 8.3-yard average puts him just ahead of Hearst's 7.9, but Faulk's 6.5 pales in comparison. 
It remains to be seen what Faulk can do agai_nst a top defense. Hearst has posted impressive numbers and raised a lot of eyebrows, but he is still not as well known as Faulk. 
With the spotlight on him, Brooks has the opportunity to becomf) Notre Dame's eighth Heisman Trophy winner. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Forsyth 
wins tennis toumey see page 11 

•NHL 
Wrap-up see page 13 

•'Niners 
romp over Falcons see page 14 



Tuesday, November 1 0, 1992 
Evansville ends men's NCAA hopes 
Young team bows out in MCC semi-finals 

By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It was a case of premature evacuation that can only be remedied with experience. 
A revenge-minded Evansville team forced the young Notre Dame men's soccer team out of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament with a 3~2 semi-final win, ending any Irish dreams of an NCAA tournament bid. 
Evansville, a 1-0 loser to the Irish in the regular season, turned their vengeful intensity into two early goals, and the Irish weren't able to overcome the deficit. 
Ignacion Vega got the Aces on the board at the 12:27 mark and Tony Jones added another goal five minutes later. Diego Gitterez finished Evansville's scoring at 76:01. 
The Irish battled until the final gun, but goals from Jason Fox and Bill Lanza in the last five minutes weren't enough and they bowed out of the tournament. 
"I think our players deserve a lot of credit," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. 

lnterhall championship match-ups decided for Sunday 
Keenan prepares to repeat against Zahm 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 
The champion of interhall football will be crowned next Sunday, as defending champion Keenan faces Zahm at Notre Dame Stadium. 
In two closely contested games that featured dominating defenses, Zahm remained unbeaten in knocking off a strong Alumni squad, while Keenan avenged its only loss of the season, edging previously undefeated Flanner. 
Zahm 7, Alumni 0 
After dropping its first game of the year to Zahm, the Alumni team went unbeaten the rest of the way to earn a chance at revenge. Alumni played Zahm evenly throughout the contest, but an inopportune turnover proved to be the difference in the game. 
The first half was a defensive struggle. The Alumni defense gave up yards but stiffened as Zahm neared the goal-line. 
After Alumni defenders Matt Fitzpatrick, Tim Walsh, and Bob States combined for a sack to force Zahm into a third and long situation, Zahm quarterback Chris Hammond spotted Rick Rios streaking down the sideline and split the defenders for a completion to the Alumni 16. 
On the next play, the Alumni defense came up big, stuffing a run on first down. Then defensive back Michael Lauinger knocked down a pass at the 
Interhall Championships Men's 
:. ~ goal-line, and on third down, the Alumni defensive line pressured Hammond into a fumble which States recovered, ending the scoring threat. 
In the second half, Alumni put itself in a scoring position. A late-hit penalty on Zahm kept a drive going, and Alumni positioned itself for a 55-yard field goal attempt. Volker Blankenstein, although having the· distance, pushed the kick wide right. 
Two possessions later, a crucial Alumni turnover changed the momentum of the game. The Zahm defense swarmed on a fumbled snap deep in their opponent's territory. 
Switching from its usual pass-oriented attack, Zahm captain Matt Seng wore away at the Alumni defense with five consecutive carries. Seng eventually scored the game's only touchdown on a run up the middle from the four. Scott Ecker's extra point added the game's final margin. 
Alumni managed to rally to make the game exciting at the finish, as quarterback Conrad Hansen scrambled 
see MEN/page14 

"It is tough to come back after you get down early, but they never gave up. We had some good chances but it was too little too late." 
Inexperience was the main problem for Notre Dame this season, with five sophomores and three freshmen in the starting lineup. But they have faced some of the nation's best teams, and inexperience should not be a concern in 1993. 
"Within the structure of our team, I think we had a very good year," Berticelli said. "Our players got better and that bodes well for the future and that is what's important right now." 
Expectations weighed heavily on the Irish this season. With several key players returning from a sparkling 13-5­2 1991-season that included a trip to the MCC championship game, they expected nothing less than an NCAA tournament bid. 
It wasn't to be, but Berticelli's focus is on the long term. Overnight success is not his goal. · 
"Instant success usually lasts an instant and is gone in an instant," he said. "We are on the road to becoming a national power, but it is going to take time." 
The team's final 10-7-2 mark isn't a fair representation of their play. Bad breaks and bad calls marred a season that saw the Irish dominate virtually ev­ery game they played. 
"The only game I didn't feel we dominated was the Indiana game (a 3-0 loss)," Berticelli said. "We've been snakebitten all season long with some strange calls and unusual cir­cumstances. but the adversity will help us get stronger." 
Next season could be the time for the Irish to burst onto the national scene. They will carry a similar load of expectations, but they will also carry a roster full of battle-tested players into the fire. 
Walsh and Siegfried to fight. for title 
By HEATHER WILEY 
Sports Writer 

Walsh and Siegfried will meet for the 
first time this season to decide who 
will be the reigning interhall 
champions until next season. 

In the rain, Walsh and Breen-Phillips kept things hot on the field as Walsh triumphed in overtime. Siegfried overcame the stiff challange of Lewis to earn the trip to the championship. 
Walsh 1, Breen·Phillips 6 

Walsh pulled out a win over Breen­Phillips last Sunday 7-6 in overtime to send them into the championship game against Siegfried next Sunday. The rain didn't help either team in moving the ball, but the defenses proved to be the ultimate tests. 
The Blitz sent the game into overtime with a sack by Cathy Krach on 4th and goal in the last minutes of regular play. 
In their first possession in overtime, Walsh scored a touchdown on a center .sneak play by Yvonne McCray. Two penalties back Walsh up to 13 yds away from the conversion, but a pass from quarterback Stepb Sheets to Jeannine Herlicky gave Walsh seven . On BP's possession, Wendy Mores turned in a touchdown ofher own, but the extra point was denied. 
see WOMEN/page 14 
• 



