.-----------------------~~----~--~---~-------------------------------

VOL. XXIV NO. 92 TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Butrus/O'Neill winners of presidential race 
Majority wins on first ballot for first time in seven years 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill won Monday's student body presidential election when their ticket won a majority of the votes cast in the four-ticket race. 
Butrus and O'Neill received 2,058 votes, which represented 50.8% of the total electorate. Their closest rivals were Ge­orge Smith and Mike Goodwin, who polled 915 votes (22.6%). Dave Certo and Matthew Bomberger finished third with 598 votes (14.7%). Fourth place went to Rich Delevan and Joe Wilson. who received 362 votes 
(8. 9%). Write-in candidates obtained 122 votes (3.0%). 
With their majority victory, Butrus and O'Neill will not have to participate in a run-off elec­tion with the second place fin­ishers. The last time a presi­dential election was decided without a run-off was in 1985. 
64.4% of eligible students voted in the election, up from 59.5% last year. Elections Commissioner Travis Reindl at­tributed some of the increased turnout to the three additional polling places set up for off­campus students, which helped to boost off-campus student participation from 1.0 % to 9.3%. 
The elections committee also received via telephone 31 votes from overseas students, com­pared to none last year. Reindl cautioned that the Butrus/ O'Neill victory would remain unofficial until written certification of those votes are received. 
Stanford Hall residents came out overwhelmingly for Butrus/ O'Neill, giving their hall co­president and his running rate 228 out of the 241 votes cast in the dorm. The ticket also did extremely well in Keenan Hall, 
see ELECTIONS I page 6 

~~ 

• Butrus/O'Neill []Smith/GoodwinD Certo/BombergerD Delevan/WilsonD Other 
REFERENDUM 
1. 
I am generally in favor of the current Academic Code of Honor at Notre Dame. 

2. 
I am in favor of an Academic Code of Honor in principle. 




5.4% 

LEGEND: 

I 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Students 
disagree on honor code 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH Assistant News Editor 
In addition to casting votes for Student Body President and Vice President Monday, Notre Dame students were able to voice their opinions concerning the Academic Honor Code, both at the University and in princi­ple. 
Students were asked to re­spond to two statements: "I am generally in favor of the cur­rent Academic Code of Honor at Notre Dame" and "I am in favor of an Academic Code of Honor in principle." 
Travis Reindl, student gov­ernment elections commis­sioner, said that it seems a ma­jority of the students generally "agreed with both questions.~ 
see CODE I page 6 


Committee: Loretto will be renovated as planned 
By JENNIFER SOUKUP News Writer 
The walk to the Church of Loretto was strewn with yellow ribbons Monday, signifying the hope of many students that op­pose plans to renovate Loretto. More ribbons were passed out at the door for those attending the meeting between students and members of the renovation committee to wear. 
But the ribbons were in vain. 
Several members of the committee were on hand to an­swer questions and address concerns, but they clearly stated that the changes would continue as planned. 
The meeting, primarily orga­nized by Saint Mary's students Katie Kennedy and Kathy Roe, was supposed to be a forum for students to express concern over the proposed changes, but turned into what one student referred to as "a monumental waste of time". 
The Renovation Committee representatives addressed each of the specific reasons the changes were sought and the ways in which the new design would address these problems. 
Sister Mary Ellen Vaughan, who served as the liason be­tween the renovation committee and the general council of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, began by giving a brief history of the plans to renovate the Church of Loretto. According to Vaughan, the need for renovation has existed for 10-15 years. The current committee was founded about a year and a half ago, with members representing the sisters, the liturgical staff, and members of the congregation. 
Vaughan outlined the deci­sion-making process behind the final plans, including the many times the committee reviewed its progress in order to make sure the plans were adequately responding to the many needs of the church community. While the committee is very pleased with the plans, Vaughan allowed that "No one church construction will satisfy everyone." 
Those that seem to be the least satisfied are the students. After the various members of 
Senate resolutions urge administration to change its policy on sexual offenses 
By SANDY WIEGAND Associate News Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously passed resolutions Monday urging the University to change its policies regarding sexual offenses and to play a more active role in off-campus crime prevention. 
A resolution submitted by Knott Hall President Maureen Connelly and Stanford Hall Co­president Greg Butrus recom­mends that the Notre Dame Se­curity Police and the Office of Student Affairs: 
• publish Indiana statute def­initions of rape and sexual as­sault in DuLac, 
• outline Notre Dame Security Police and Administrative pro­cedures regarding rape and sexual assault, 
• release information on al­leged rape and sexual assault attempts for publication in The Observer without names, dates, places or times, "to retain pri­vacy for parties involved yet in­crease awareness," 
• outline victims' rights ac­cording to the United State's House Bill 2363 and recom­mended rights specified by counseling centers such as the Women's Care Center and Sex Offense Services, 
• 
distribute stickers for all telephones listing emergency numbers, and 

• 
designate the first week of September "National Campus Crime and Security Awareness Week." 


Butrus said he hopes Notre Dame Security and the adminis­tration will "give a range" of University punishment for sex­ual offenses. 
A ten-point resolution sub­mitted by David Certo, District One student senator, for the Off­Campus Crime Subcommittee, includes a request that Student Affairs fund Weekend Wheels. The service, which provides bus rides from local bars to campus, costs about $10,000 per year, according to Charlie James, Hall Presidents Council co­chair. 
The resolution also com­mends the University and stu­dent organizations for "implementing programs such as Christmas in April, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, and after­school tutoring," and requests that Student Government: 
• 
seek ways, with the Univer­sity, to "improve the local neighborhoods," 

• 
compile and distribute to off-campus students advice and information for their security, 

• 
encourage neighborhood watch groups, 

• 
hold annual forums with police and off-campus students to discuss "suggestions for safe, responsible social gatherings and personal conduct," and 

• 
compile and release infor­mation about off-campus 


see SENATE I page 4 
the committee spoke, students from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame expressed concern over the changes. 
One student wondered about the future of the painted glass windows that currently deco­rate the church. The windows, which are remnants of the original church built in 1885, will be replaced with clear glass. What will happen to the windows has not yet been de­cided. 
Other students wondered about the sense of tradition that will be lost if the renovations go ahead as planned. Many objected to the reasoning behind the decision to renovate. But the most wide-spread con­cern was the fact that the stu­dents were never consulted about the decision to renovate. 
It was only after the decision was final that the Saint Mary's community as a whole learned of the intention to renovate. By this time it was too late, ac­cording to Sister Mary Turgi, the committee chairperson, as the decision had been made and the plans were underway. 
"We didn't think that the stu­dents would care (about the renovation plans)," Turgi said. 
Several committee members acknowledged that a mistake had been made in not consult­ing the college community, but this error will not have any ef­fect on the renovation, they said. 
see LORETIO I page 4 


Daydreaming The Observer/Adriana Rodriguez 
One~year-old Edward Turner dreams "ot being a future Domer at th~ ll?rary yeste~day as he regards a picture of the Administration Bwld1ng before 11 burned down. 
I don't know about you, but I'm scared. 
I've been reading letters in the paper lately that say that Magic Johnson shouldn't have been allowed to play in the NBA All-Star Game because he 
is HIV positive. These people say that, although 
John O'Brien Accent Editor 
it hasn't been proven yet,.-------­
Magic could be spreading the virus around 
through "high-fives." 
You see, some writers have said that Magic 
might have little cuts on his hands and these 
might come into contact with little cuts on the 
other guy's hands and BOOM! instant AIDS. 
As we all know, Magic did play in this game and, although it hasn't been proven yet, he might have infected dozens, no hundreds-or even thousands with the evil AIDS virus! AHHH! 
Just think, Magic went around giving high­fives, slapping behinds and even kissing (KISSING! IF THAT'S NOT AN AIDS-SPREADING TACTIC, WHAT IS?) What if Magic slapped, say, Clyde Drexler on the behind. All that AIDS virus in the little cuts on his hands would be all over Clyde's shorts. 
Then, say, Jeff Hornacek slapped Clyde's behind. The evil AIDS virus would shoot into the little cuts in his hands and BOOM! instant AIDS. Before long, the whole West team would have it. 
Then, remember, Magic and Isaiah Thomas still do that kissing thing. BINGO! Isaiah must have it too. I saw him pass the ball to Michael Jordan a few times-an obvious ploy to shoot the AIDS virus from the ball into the little cuts on Michael's hands. I'm sure the entire East team is now infected, too. 
Okay, now what if Magic went to a concession stand before the game and bought a hot dog? The little cuts on his hands would put the virus on the dollar bills, which he would hand to the concession worker. Just think, everyone who goes to that hot dog stand, BOOM! instant AIDS. 
So all the others who didn't go to that hot dog stand are okay, right? WRONG. Now, although it hasn't been proven yet, all of those people opening up their mouths and cheering were probably shooting the AIDS virus all over each other. Every single person there would get the evil AIDS. 
I thought I might be safe for a while, just as long as I didn't high-five any basketball All­Stars. But then I realized there were so many other threats to me from the evil AIDS virus. 
What if I pick up a dollar bill that Magic touched? Or what if I meet someone who went to the game and they breathe on me? Or what i a mosquito bites someone who was at the game and then it bites me? I mean, although it hasn't been proven yet, you never can be too sure, can you? 
But I'm really worried players who get hurt during games. What if their blood comes in contact with a sweaty spot on the floor? Although it hasn't been proven yet, it would probably mean BOOM! instant AIDS. 
Maybe I'm just being an obnoxious, paranoid homophobe, but you never can be too careful. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News: Viewpoint: 
Paul Pearson Cheryl Moser 
Alicia Reale 
Accent: 
Sports: Patrick Moran 
Rich Szabo 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD NATIONAL Election loss hurts Miyazawa's future 
•TOKYO -An embarrassing loss in a parliamentary election has increased the possibility that Kiichi Miyazawa could become the third Japanese prime min­ister since 1989 to step down amid scandal. The cam­paign that ended Sunday with an overwhelming defeat for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party focused on the latest in a series of money-for-favors scandals that have blackened the conservative party's image. "The administration of Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa ap­pears doomed unless it takes a resolute step to bring to light the entire picture" of the current scandal, The Japan Times said The fate of the party itself is rosier, however. Scandal after scandal, the Liberal Democrats have controlled Parliament's law-making Lower House for 37 years. The winner, Yukihisa Yoshida's, anti­corruption platform was backed by the Rengo labor federation and the Socialist and Democratic Socialist parties. Miyazawa called the results "truly regrettable." The prime minister already was in trouble prior to the election. 
OF INTEREST 

•An 
seniors interested in the financial services in­dustry are invited to attend a program tonight with IDS Financial Services at 6:30 p.m. in Room 304 of Saint Mary's Haggar College Center. 

•Iceberg 
Debates will be held at dorms all over campus at 9 p.m. The topic is: Resolved that Notre Dame's policy of parietals should be abolished. 

•Attention 
Seniors: Pat Ryan of the Inner City Teaching Corps will be at the CSC for interviews only for those who have already applied for the program. He will be interviewing today and tomorrow. 

•summer 
residence hall staff applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 Main Building. 


Graphics: Systems: Brendan Regan The Czar Pat Barth Jon Halloran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

City 
Amsterdam Atlanta 
Bo~Pa 
Boston Brussels Chicago Fargo Fairbanks Greal Falls Honolulu Houston Johannesburg Kansas City London Los Angeles Mlarrl B911Ch 
Mpls-St. Paul
New York 
Paris 
~~~~~ 
South Bend Tokyo Warsaw Washington. D.C. 
H L 43 34 50 31 64 46 
27 07 45 39 29 24 29 15 18 11 38 18 81 62 57 48 90 64 
41 34 
50 43 
65 52 
69 56 
23 22 
31 14 
50 39 64 52 77 68 28 16 50 36 37 30 36 20 

•Government 
Career Day will be held Wednesday, Feb. 19, from noon until 4 p.m. in the lower level of the CCE. Representatives from federal, state, and local gov­ernment agencies will be in attendance to discuss careers in the government sector. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

•Siblings 
of disabled people are invited to share their experiences with younger children who have physi­cally or mentally disabled siblings. Please call Debbie at 272-5708 or 283-1901. 

•The 
second clue for the Knott Hall charity medallion hunt is: "Use the 'Luck '0' the Irish' to aid you in your quest. To start outdoors might be best. Tho' the weather might be very cold, go out and search for our Medallion of gold." Subsequent clues will follow through­out the week. Whoever finds the medallion first should bring it to 419 Knott Hall to claim the prizes. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1847: Inventor Thomas Alva Edison was born in Milan, Ohio. 

• 
In 1858: A French girl, Bernadette Soubirol!S claimed for the first time to have seen a vision of the Virgin Mary near Lourdes. 

• 
In 1929: The Lateran Treaty was signed, with Italy recognizing the independence and sovereignty of Vatican City. 

• 
In 1990: South African black activist Nelson Mandala was freed after 27 years in prison. Mandala walked through the gate of Victor Verster prison outside Cape Town, setting off celebrations among his followers. 


------~--~~--------­
Tuesday, February 11, 1992 
Police arrest 14 students in Saturday motel raid 
By ANDREW RUNKLE Moon. News Writer The Notre Dame students were all male and charged as Seven Notre Dame students minors consuming alcohol, 
and seven Goshen College stu­along with six Goshen College dents were cited for alcohol vio­females. One Goshen college 
lations by the Stop Underage male, 22, was charged with in­Drinking and Sales (SUDS) task ducing minors to consume al­force Saturday night, according cohol, according to Moon. 
to Sgt. James Moon of the South Bend Police. 
All individuals were cited for 
At 11:55 p.m., SUDS officers the misdemeanor violations and conducted a raid at the Days released at the scene, according Inn Motel, 52757 U.S. 33 North. to Moon. Officers discovered the party in rooms 215 and 217 and set up The SUDS task force is com­
surveillance, according to prised of officers from the In­Moon. 
diana State Police, Indiana Ex­
All individuals in the party cise Police, St. Joseph County were found in violation of Indi­Police and the South Bend Po­ana liquor laws, according to lice Department. 
]P\\1 REGISTI{ATION 
All attending must pick up a registration packet TODAY in the Sorin Room of LaFortune from 6-10 PM. & Wednesday from 7-11 PM ID's must be presented. 
The Observer 

The ObS81Ver/Adriana Rodriguez 

Long distance dedications 
Freshman Glee Club member Joe Taijeron of Flanner tries to convince P .E. freshman Shannon Hensley to purchase a Glee Club singing telegram for Valentine's day at North Dining Hall. 
-----------------------------~ 
page 3 

RHA talks on election dates 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) discussed the dates for the elections of next year's executive board members and Hall officers at Monday's meeting. 
"The elections are upcoming," said RHA president Ellen McQuillan. "The elections for executive Board members will be before spring break and those for the officers of the halls will be after spring break." 
However, the executive board has not yet decided on the exact dates, she said. 
Also on the meeting's agenda was an upcoming leadership conference for RHAs at Indiana colleges. According to the exec­utive board, the conference, to be held April 3-4 at Ball State University, will be available to two representatives from each residence hall. 
In addition, the RHA encour­aged all students to attend the Friday fiction readings from English professors. These readings will continue this semester in the Coffeehouse, said the RHA. 
Also, the junior class will sponsor a ski trip in February, said McQuillan. 
~-,.ver_ 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid 
positions: 
News Editor 
•Applicants 
should have news writing and editing experience 

•Responsible 
for managing assisting editors and reporters 

•Responsible 
for content and accuracy of daily News section 


Viewpoint Editor 
•Applicants 
should have editorial and fact-checking experience 

•Responsible 
for letters to the editor and Viewpoint columns 

•Responsible 
for managing assisting editors and columnists 


Sports Editor 
•Applicants 
should have sports writing and editing experience 

•Responsible 
for managing assisting editors and reporters 

•Responsible 
for daily Sports section, generating special sections and travel accommodations for road games 


Accent Editor 
•Applicants 
should have features writing and editing experience 

•Responsible 
for assisting editors, reporters and columnists 

•Responsible 
for daily Accent section, generating story ideas, overseeing ETC. and other special issue sections 


Photo Editor 
•Applicants 
should have photography and developing experience 

•Responsible 
for coordinating photographers and lab technicians 

•Must 
work closely with department editors in assigning photos 


Saint Mary's Editor 
•Responsible 
for managing Saint Mary's department editors and coordinating efforts with Notre Dame staff 

•Responsible 
for generating story ideas on Saint Mary's campus 

•Responsible 
for Observer office on Saint Mary's campus 


Advertising Manager 
•Applicants 
should be Business majors with an interest in management, advertising and/or sales 

•Responsible 
for managing advertising representatives and clerks, seeking and generating advertising revenue 


Ad Design Manager 
•Applicants 
should be management-oriented, familiar with Macintosh MacDraw and computer-assisted design 

•Responsible 
for design and layout of advertisements 

•Must 
work closely with design staff and Advertising Manager 


Production Manager 
•Applicants 
should have newspaper production experience, especially Macintosh QuarkXPress 3.0, design and layout 

•Responsible 
for night production editors aAd design staff 

•Work 
closely with department editors on design and layout 


Systems Manager 
•Responsible 
for maintaining and updating service of Macintosh network and Linotronic processing system 

•Responsible 
for managing typesetting department 

•Responsible 
for training Observer staff on use of entire system 


Observer Typesetting Director 
•Knowledge 
of Macintosh and IBM desktop publishing necessary 

•Responsible 
for managing typesetting business, soliciting revenue and completing assignments for clients in the community 


Controller 
•Applicant 
must be a junior accounting major 

•Responsible 
for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties 


To apply, submit a three-page personal statement and resume to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12. For more information or further job descriptions, call The Observer, 239-5303. 

--------------~----~ ~------~---------~-------­
The Observer 

page 4 Tuesday, February 11, 1992 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Creative games 

Sophomores Paul English and Maureen Sullivan amuse them­selves by soda-can bowling in Holy Cross Hall yesterday . 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
housing available, with details on neighborhood condition, ex­penses, and other concerns. 
The resolution requests that the University administration, "as one of the largest employers in St. Joseph's County," increase negotiations for increased patrols by the South Bend Police in student residential areas. 
The Senate also asks that the 

University expand Notre Dame 
Security patrols in off-campus 
areas with high student popula­
tions and on paths to campus. 
In other Senate business, 

Dominque Laflamme, senior 
systems programmer of the 
Office of University Computing, 
said the office plans expansion 
of the "NO Info" computer bul­
letin board. 
The information service, ac­


Don't be WOWED by her "EXCESSIVE BEAUTY'' 
Wish Carrie Mokry a BElATED 21ST! 
Love, Your Roomies & Motorhead 
c;[)~V~ 
Send your Valentine a unique gilt in THIS space! Deadline lor FEB. I4 is FEB.I2 Stop by ~rd Floor Lafortune 
cessible to all students from 
campus computer clusters since January, may be expanded to include updates on student or­ganizations, DART listings and RecSports information. 
The University plans to change telephone systems by December since the present system has reached maximum capacity, Mike Collins, of University Telecommunications, said at the meeting. Senate members plan to submit ideas as to what the new system should include. 
lAMERICAN
+CANCER
fSOCJElY® 

CLC discusses Judicial Boards 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council dis­cussed an IIPC/Senate Joint Resolution involving which dis­ciplinary issues should be re­solved by a private meeting with the hall rector, called "pastoral concerns," and which should be brought before the hall's judicial board, which is composed of students. 
The council did not vote on the resolution, which would have asked the Office of Student Affairs to encourage the use of Judicial Boards by issuing "a definition of 'truly serious and sensitive matters and pastoral concerns,"' which are currently reserved for the hall rectors. 
One rector pointed out that many disciplinary issues in his dorm do not go to the Judicial Board simply because "it's easier." 
"The intention of the Judicial Board is to give students re­sponsibility," and this is not possible in the interest of con­venience, said a student mem­ber. 
Loretto 
continued from page 1 
Renovation of the Church of Loretto will begin in May and will be completed by the end of 1992. 
My Girl, PG 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 Father of the Bride, PG 4:30, 7:00, 9:15 Freetack, R 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 

IllALUMNI======
SENIOR 

~!:CLUB 
STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 5, 1992 
A faculty member of the council suggested that all disci­plinary dorm issues be taken to the Judicial Board in order to encourage students' sense of ci­tizenship as they develop into responsible individuals. "Why not adopt the idea of a jury duty?" he said. 
This suggestion was refuted by a rector who said that it simply is not appropriate to send every resident who plays loud music to the Judicial Board. 
A student said that many feel it is unfair to place the respon­sibility of assigning punishment on a member of the Judicial Board of each dorm, especially when punishment is serious. She said that students are un­able to distance themselves enough from their peers to judge. 
Pulling from his experience as rector, one member of the co11ncil said, "You might get a 
bad Judicial Board.  One year  
my  chief pothead  was  the  
chairman  of  the  Judicial  
Board."  

This year a two-part training 
by THORNTON WILDER 

Wednesday Feb. 19, 8:10pm Washington Hall Thursday Feb. 20, 8:10pm Reserved seats: $7 Friday Feb. 21, 8:10 pm 
Student and senior citizen discounts
Saturday Feb. 22, 8:10pm 

are available for Wednesday,Sunday Feb. 23, 3:10pm Thursday and Sunday performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders: call239-8128 
session is starting to be used, in which members of the Judicial Board Jearn the basics, how to run a session and how to ask questions. 
A rector reminded the group that if a student is unhappy with the punishment given by the Judicial Board, the student may choose to meet with the rector, and if he or she is dis­pleased with the rector, the student may appeal to Student Affairs. 
"It is very difficult to get Ju­dicial Board members, "said a rectress in the group, "espeeially in female dorms." 
A student member of the council clarified that this reso­lution is simply "to give out­lines" to rectors. Violations of du Lac are dealt with differently in different dorms, and this discrepancy merits consid­eration when the Office of Stu­dent Affairs meets to revise du Lac. 
The council adjourned with a plan to find out if this issue is dorm-wide by gathering statis­tics telling the frequency with which Judicial Boards are used. 

Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
The Observer
Tuesday, February 11, 1992 page 5 
Forum focuses on harassment policy 

By HEATHER TREMBLAY 
News Writer 

The University must remedy the "clearly inadequate adver­tisement" of its sexual harass­ment policy, Associate Provost Sister Kathleen Cannon said at a forum Monday. 
One important issue for the forum, as expressed by Eileen Kolman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies, was simply an explanation of a survey on sex­ual harassment that was pub­lished in the Dec. 9 issue in The Observer. 
The survey, according to Cannon, was similar to one that was given at Harvard University and was modified to address situations faced here at Notre Dame. The purpose of the survey, said Cannon, was to get more information about the general feelings held by faculty, graduates, and undergraduates about sexual harassment. 
There were three main areas of concern that were assessed in the survey, Cannon ex­
~················································· 
•+ SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS
t 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
+ SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS
•
t 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AND 
t ACCOUNT FOR $400,000?
•
t STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE t ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER.
•t 
THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE 
t STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS t FOR:
•
t •STUDENT GOVERNMENT t • STUDENT UNION BOARD
t •HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
t • CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS
•
t THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BECOMING THE t ~'1rlU]])IEN'1r Jm([))]]))Y '1rffi.IEA~1UIRIEIR THE FOLLOWING t YEAR. 
t APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT 
t GOVERNMENT, 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 
t 8:00AM-5:00PM; 
: DUE ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14 BY 4:00PM. 
• 
t QUESTIONS, CALL 239-7417
• 
•
• • • 
~ 
plained. The first area was the There were also many sug­definition of sexual harassment. gestions on how to fight the Secondly, the survey attempted harassment itself. Some of the to measure the prevalence o'f ideas included special centers harassment at Notre Dame. or hotlines here on campus Lastly, it addressed the issue of where students can get help on how the University should be a personal basis. A main con­involved in remedying the cern was how to make students problem. comfortable enough to follow 
The largest area of concern up on complaints and take fur­expressed by the audience was ther action against their ag­the fact that, according to the gressors. survey, many students and fac­The forum was sponsored by ulty are not aware of what is the Faculty/Student Committee contained in the University's on Women. harassment policy, or that it exists at all. 
There were many suggestions 
Dow Corning
as to how this problem could be solved. The idea of distributing pamphlets was introduced, but 
releases 
concern was expressed that they would not be read. One idea that was well received was 
documents
that of including the harass­ment policy in freshman orien­WASHINGTON (AP) -Dow tation, much like the alcohol Corning knew more than 20 
polic~ Other ideas included years ago that its silicone gel 
more training for RA's and 
breast implants could leak and taking out ads in The Observer that the fluid could cause medi­
outlining the policy. 
cal problems, according to company documents released today.
• 
The breast implants, which have been voluntarily with­drawn from the market while the government determines whether they are safe, have been the subject of lawsuits and allegations that the company knew they were unsafe. 
At the demand of the Food
t and Drug Administration, Dow Corning today released a
t phone-book-thick stack of in­ternal documents outlining 
t 
t what and when the company knew about problems with the implants.
• The company, in an explana­
tion that accompanied the doc­uments, acknowledged that sili­
•t 

cone gel in the body causes problems. 
"Testing completed to datet shows that the primary ob­served effect of silicone in the
•t 

t 
body is that of the classic for­eign-body reaction," Dow Corning said. 
• 
t 
"The tests do not indicate any association between these silicone materials and cancer,
t 

or diseases of the immune system." 
t However, the company did acknowledge that if the leaking
tt 

silicone gel works its way be­yond the scar tissue that nor­mally surrounds an implantt that it can cause "persistent tissue inflammation or localized tissue irritation in some cases."
•
t 

Nevertheless, the company'st literature to surgeons did not mention this among the 
•t 

"adverse reactions" to the im­plants. That included only "occasional complaints of ex­cessive breast firmness and-or
t 

discomfort ..." 
t 

Elsewhere in that same pam­t phlet, Dow Corning described what a surgeon should do if an 
•: 

implant breaks while being in­stalled. After pulling out the implant and as much gel as the
t surgeon can grab with his fin­gers, "any residual macro­scopic gel remaining in the pocket can be removed by blot­ting the walls of the pocket with a series of 4x4 sponges." 
• 
If any of the gel gets on sur­gical instruments, the pamphlet recommends cleaning them with benzene. 
• 
The documents made public 

• 
today originally were to have 

• 
been released on Jan. 27, but 


Dow Corning delayed the re-t lease, saying it wanted to add
X********XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX*XXXXX**XXXX*XXXXX**XXXXF background. 

page 6 The Observer 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill won yesterday's student body presidential election when their ticket received a majority (50.8%) of the votes cast in the four-ticket race. 
Code 
continued from page 1 
The Student Senate included the referendum on ballots as a "casual gauge to get a feel for the students' opinion," accord­ing to Heindl. "It's the most ef­ficient way to do so," he said. 
According to student gov­ernment tabulations, 3,737 students responded to the first question and 3,752 to the sec­ond. Due to technical difficul­ties, Carroll Hall residents were unable to be included in the of­ficial referendum count. 
When asked specifically about Notre Dame's honor code, 282 said they "Strongly Agree," 1410 said they "Agree," 860 said they "Strongly Disagree," 368 said they "Disagree," and 817 said they were "Not Sure." 
Concerning the ideals of an honor code, 1069 said they "Strongly Agree," 1860 said they "Agree," 202 said they "Strongly Disagree," 139 said they "Disagree," and 482 said they were "Not Sure." 
Student Senate developed this year's referendum in response to the Academic Council's deci­sion to review the University's Academic Code of Honor, ac­cording to outgoing Student Body Vice President Dave Flo­renzo. 
While the referendum was not designed solely to be used at the Council's February meeting, it will give the Council "something to work with," said Florenzo. 
"It gives the (students') initial spontaneous reaction," he added. 
Such information is important as a "data base" when preparing statements for plan­ning organizations such as the Board of Trustees or the Alumni Association, said Reindl. 
Such results "may give them (those who analyze the infor­mation) the basis to say that it (Notre Dame's honor code) is okay the way it is," said Reindl. 
~~~~~~~¥¥~¥¥¥~~~~~~ 
;  You're Invited To Britton's  ;  
~  Balloons, Cards, Gifts & Antiques  ~  
~  Edison Plaza, 1627 Edison  ~  
M  (Adjacent to Jamison Inn)  M  
T M  CUp this coupon and Bring It in for a 200A. discount on your purchases. Good thru February, 1992  T M  
T M T  Featuring Recycled Paper Cards & Gifts, Blue Mountain Arts C~rds & Gifts, Far Side & Saturday Night Uve Cards & Gifts, Stuffed Animals, Victorian Prints, Jewelry, and Balloon Bouquet Specials  T M T  
¥  ¥  Convenient Easy Shopping  ~  ~  

¥ Britton Knowles, Owner (219) 271-2001 ¥ 
~¥¥¥¥¥~¥¥¥¥¥¥~~~¥¥¥ 

AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 

This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 

• 
Constantly Updated Materials 


WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
winning 155 of its 215 votes. 

Women voters gave strong support to Butrus/O'Neill, which was the only ticket in the field that contained a female student. The ticket won a plu­rality of votes in all of the women's dorms, and took 186 of the 225 votes cast in Lewis Hall, which O'Neill serves as co­president. 
The winning candidates at­tributed their success to the strength of their campaign or­ganization. 
"(The campaign) took a lot of hard work by a lot of people," said president-elect_ Butrus. "We had a lot of help from our friends." 
With their supporters provid­ing much logistical assistance, Butrus and O'Neill said they were able to spend time achiev­ing personal contact with the voters. 
"We must have shook over 
Tuesday, February 11, 1992 

6,000 hands this week," O'Neill said. · 
The losing candidates were disappointed with the results, but generally expressed support for the winning ticket. 
"I can't speak more elo­quently than the voters have," said Delevan, "I wish the new administration well." 
''I've never heard anyone say anything bad about Greg Butrus," said Certo. 
"They should do good work with security issues," said Smith. 
Butrus and O'Neill pledged to "hit the ground running" when they take office on April 1. The first item on their agenda will be to convince the Academic Council to extend the study pe­riod for final exams by two days. 
"(Our position on study days) received a mandate from the voters," Butrus said. 
The victorious candidates also said they would address student concerns about crime and about the quality of under­graduate education. 

fAifNOS DON'T lH fAifNOS DAIVf DRUNK. 
ri!l 
US. DepMment of Transportabon 

1R.diL-f~eiiUJ"t!ltfu 2/l~td#,t.n 12/VU.. t.tu g,/1,,. I Rdll"'"e, cf RtJJ,"' L•tu g,&,~~r BJ!N~ lv'u;Jt J Rill''"ll"'"tLttu BJIN"' /1J.95Pt6~ I t/UJ" IIUJ"tLttu BaliN~, /16. 95 [)d;,.ui 
2/l~td#,&n 
1Ruillell"t#r"" 
2Ru/L,tuB,&~~ 2Rd~" 11-tL•tu B,/1,~, 2/VU. L•tu B.t!N"' 2 tt-11-tt.tu g,/f,"' 2 P,;,tt.t... g,&,. g,&,lfujU 
/16.st5Pt~ 
/19. st5 [)j;,.ut 
..Vlkrtt:.e B-,'"'AI,"";, T,.,tt, ,.,. ,t,lf,.J,~{w-IV~ p,.,u, f""l 
•~~t~t.e.. g,&.,t,.utd/V,U lli-Fkt",.,''9"'"""' 


g,/f,~ /Ve!Jk /11.95Pt6~ 
1!7. 95 [}e/iru.d 
rjlgt;jeSagms
&:........, rib. ...,. .....,-IIi· 
__.. .all
~=c-. 
(ZW)ZD5Z17 
~ltyCo­
.......ngCant• 8301 ·lltatlROlli !J llltal 81111, IN 48815 
U18)tn.~n 


Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 11, 1992 page 7 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager •..... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......•. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ••••........ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ...........•.•.•.... John O'Brien Systems Manager .............•.• Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •........... Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Condoning risky behavior is not compassionate 
Dear Editor: confusing condoning with dones promiscuity and harshly real cause of AIDS than we dealt with the problem of drugs 
In Fr. Griffin's article, "The compassion. judges single mothers and AIDS have been in dealing with these and smoking: We would launch Learned Art of Compassion," he First of all, Rick did not in­victims. other problems. I am not trying a campaign geared at rightly discussed the impor­tend that AIDS sufferers are A few years ago someone to make a moral statement schoolchildren and adolescents tance of showing compassion to less worthy as human beings close to me became pregnant in here, but I think we should be to educate them about the dan­AIDS sufferers. He pointed out because of their disease. He college, and she decided to keep truthful and admit that gers of promiscuous sex. that we should not withdraw merely pointed out that in con­her baby. In doing so she found promiscuity has always been As long as we continue to our concern and acceptance trast to cancer and Alzheimer's, out that everyone who so risky and probably always will. ignore the truth concerning because someone has done we know how to prevent AIDS. willingly accepted how she was We talk a lot about "safe sex," AIDS, the problem will probably what is wrong in our eyes. I Therefore, given the fact that living before she got pregnant but condoms are hardly the reach epidemic levels as is could not agree more with Fr. our resources are limited, we were not so receptive solution to the problem. If they predicted. Griffin's argument. have to make some difficult afterwards. As a society, what were 100% safe our only task In short, we should take Fr. 
AIDS sufferers are a very decisions. Public policy dictates we should do is both show would be to encourage people Griffin's advice on how to relate misunderstood and rejected that we not spend a compassion and acceptance to use them. However, they to AIDS sufferers, but that is segment of our population. We disproportionate amount of our after someone gets in trouble, have a 15.7% failure rate in not enough -we also need to do all fall short of the level of limited resources on a disease and take steps to prevent it be­preventing pregnancy, which something about the spread of compassion we should be that can be prevented. forehand. can only occur two or three the disease, and that involves showing AIDS victims, and I am Secondly, although it is very Unlike our strategy in fighting days a month. The HIV virus, using the methods that have glad that Fr. Griffin has taken important that we show com­drugs and eliminating smoking, however, can be acquired any been successful in dealing with the time to remind us. passion to anyone who is in we have been completely day of the month. drugs and smoking. However, in his article he made trouble, we do not act compas­ineffectual in preventing the If we were really serious two mistakes: He accused Rick sionate if we condone destruc­spread of AIDS. And the most about preventing the spread of Anette Kjeldaas Acker Acker of lacking compassion, tive behavior. Unfortunately, logical reason is that we are AIDS, we would approach the Off-campus and he walked the fine line of however, our society both con-much less willing to attack the oblem in the same way we Feb.4,1992 
--------~------------------------­
College is for academics, not partying 
Dear Editor: completely unacceptable. interrupt or interfere with this 
As active members of the After three frustrating years by bringing our study groups to Notre Dame family, we would of living on-campus, we finally bars. like to express our displeasure came to the conclusion that if Although we are aware that in regards to the lackadasical we wanted the perfect study there are many that can em­attitude and general disdain for environment we would have to pathize with our plight, we de­academics. It has become obvi­create it ourselves. We would cided to take the initiative to ous to us that many students like to applaud the efforts of the ensure that the situation here are far more concerned Grace residents to better deteriorates no further. with their social lives or athletic provide a proper study Before we are labeled or events and have forgotten the atmosphere by eliminating all stereotyped as so-called real reason we are all here chemicals on certain floors. "dweebs" or "squares" we which is to learn. If individuls feel the need to would just like to say that we 
Such attitudes are painfully indulge in tobacco and would not like to spoil apparent when one cannot alcoholic products, let them anybody's fun, but there is a even find a quiet place to study visit one of the local drinking time and a place for such in the library. We do not know establishments where that sort frivolity and now is neither the how the second floor of the of behavior is not only time nor the place. Hesburgh Memorial Library (or tolerated, but encouraged. It the 'brare') became as should be noted that when our Greg Farrell conducive to studying as one of peers do engage in this John Twohy those rock and roll concerts, mindless over consumption and Off-campus but we do know that this is abuse of their bodies, we do not Feb.6,1992 
DOONESBURY 
THAT'S RIGHT, I<J[)5, YOU Hf3ARJ) (f)f<RECTL-Y! IF YCV'V5 Sli3PT WITH ANY 
C:U!<R&NT P!<&Sif?&NTIA/... CAN­
Oil?AT/3, THIS f&ATUR/3 IAJIU. 
\ PAY 'rOU12'i 

OH, 5URE, YOO COUW A/..IAJAYS 5f3U.. IT 70 THE TABS FOR. MORE, BUT /))()UWN'T YW RATHER 5/38 A 
016NIFI/3P R&·!3NACTM/3N7 OF 
YOUR. 570RY EJY NATIONAUY KNWN CAI<TOON PeRSONAf...ITICS? Olta< OUT THIS P!WT PANU.! 
"OH.OH. ''fA.EU, OH. OH. GOT7A RUN." 
\ 
'Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity.' 

Henry David Thoreau 
It's easy . . submit: 

QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
pago 8 Tuesday, February 11, 1992 
ND students need freedom to search for answers 
"Freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose/ nothing ain't worth nothing. but it's free .. ./ but feeling good was good enough for me. good enough for me and my Bobby McGee... 
A group of young men stum­bled through the snowy quad one blustery Friday evening. They tackled one another to the hardened earth. slid across the icy sidewalks, knocked each others' hats otT from their heads with snowballs, and repeated this ugly routine onward to their destination. a party at one of the women's dorms on campus. howling maniacally into the winds. the truth in their voices trailing off somewhere across campus. 
They had nothing else to do, for they had only a few hours earlier taken their last test of the week, which was the final obstacle in an exhausting five days of classes. If, however, the week had been so draining, then why weren't they back in their rooms getting rest that school had kept from them all week? 
They probably couldn't have told you, because they honestly had no ideas themselves. Maybe the night out was a search to find the answers; or perhaps the evening of revelry was meant to evade the truth; yet. at best, maybe going out was simply to "feel good." 
The only concerns that their liquored-minds needed now to remember was the room num­ber of the party, to enter the room with somewhat of a studly machismo, to find the trash can filled with discount beer, and to maybe, just maybe, strike up a conversation with some female co-ed in whose eyes were the revelations of a certain undefinable a!Tection. 
This is what college life is all about. Young adults enter into the hallowed halls of an institu­tion of higher learning, comme 
Guy Loranger 
Guest Columnist 
l'universite de Notre Dame du Lac, seeking answers to the questions that will plaque them for the rest of their lives. Some of these answers are conve­niently located in the back of the textbook -the assignment being 1-10 all or 11-13 evens. 
Other answers, however, are not as easy to find and even more difficult is the assignment -growing-up and holding onto our youth while facing the intri­cacies of adulthood. These times can be painful; these times can be overridden with joy; but, bear in mind, these times are never easy and al­ways complex. 
So the group of young men revelled in the madness of the night. One beer was followed by another, and another be­came more, until the sweaty climate of a dorm room, occu­pied by some 20 to 30 drunken college students singing Billy Joel, began to impede the con­sumption level. 
However, maybe the presence of alcohol wasn't the key ingredient in the celebration, because the talk kept flowing, the students remained dancing, and they swayed and prayed for more, more, more.... but parietals were only an hour away. 
Then, there came a knock at the door. One of the young women who had taken the re­sponsibility (or lack thereoO to host the party slowly opened the door to reveal exactly that which she had feared all along ­a couple of R.A.'s and the hall rectress with (in all fairness to her) an attitude. The ideal weekend bash was finished. 
Social gatherings at Notre Dame are "strictly" not allowed to get out of control, or to be fun or something. As Du Lac states, "No alcohol may be served in any private rooms at any social gatherings that, for any reason, extend beyond the privacy of the room in which they are held. Moreover, any gatherings in private rooms, regardless of the presence of alcohol, that are not consistent with the good order of the resi­dence hall are not allowed." Therefore, the party was for­bidden fruit, and it was the residence hall staff's duty to take it away. 
The students spilled out into the hallway and cleared the dorm in search of other cele­brations in which to partake before the ominous two o'clock hour was at hand. Except, one young man stayed behind a few moments longer to silently catch a final glimpse of the drunken saint who was defi­nitely about to be heavily ber­ated and interrogated once the room completely cleared. 
It was all there, he thought, the answers to the night that had evaded him for so long. And then, in a few seconds time, the answers were gone, fear had replaced them. He could barely believe her stare as he left the room, and shivered in the night air of the campus that had grown so cold in the past few hours. 
"... there is no compelling evi­dence that it is necessary to ex­periment with drunkenness to discover its harmful effect ... " 
The wording of the univer­sity's policy on alcohol and so­cial gatherings a little vague as to the extent of freedom a stu­dent has as far as entertaining others is concerned. 
Surely, if a party in which alcohol isn't even present can be broken-up, then "where (a student must think) is the further evil in serving alcohol anyway?" The fact is that the college years can be an extremely delicate period of growth for a person, and if 
certain freedoms and 
opportunities they feel are 
withheld from him, then the 
only obvious results are rebel­
lion. 
Regretfully, as far as the Notre Dame social scene is concerned, the rebellion does often lead to the University Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol's "drunkenness." 
Even more threatening is the fact that such long term abuse may, after four years, lead to the deadly disease of alcoholism. 
Even then, however, as Du Lac provides for, any early traces of alcoholism within an individual are treated with "counseling" and "alcohol assessments" which are merely utilized as "disciplinary proce­dures. In the end, the result is that a young man or woman is left more confused than ever before. 
Changes are necessary in the university's existing policy on student's social life. However, to suggest a complete reversal of the current stance against underage consumption at Notre Dame would be just as ridicu­lous as to retain the status quo. 
No one is to benefit from alco­hol abuse in life, and thus limi­tations on students' freedoms (the cause of inevitable rebel­lion) can only lead to this type of an epidemic of foolish mis­use. Therefore, any changes made should be within the structure of the current policy. 
For instance, there are sev­eral required classes that stu­dents must take to achieve graduation from this institution, and perhaps a mandatory Alcohol & Drugs class could be added along with these necessi­ties (such as volleyball and so­cial dancing). 
Notre Dame is supposed to possess an atmosphere of 
education and growth, but strict adherence to a senseless policy are merely attempts to sweep a problem under the carpet instead of curing it. 
The class I have suggested is a way in which the university can then retain its advertised commitment to the welfare of students. 
In conclusion, frightening students into discovering answers they are not convinced of will only confuse, and more than likely damage them in the long run. 
The young man dismally en­tered his dorm room to retire for the night, and walked over to look out his window at the source of golden light which had spilled into his room. It was the glow of the Dome, the source of hope and promise that captured him as he first arrived to campus in the late summer. He wondered if "she" was looking at it too, because he was assured of the infinite realm of answers that exist in its powerful aura. 
Perhaps, like Fitzgerald's Great Gatsby, maybe both students were fools on this night. Maybe the lights at the end of their docks could only "elude [them} then, but that's no matter.." 
Possibly it's only God who has the answers to the social and personal complexities of growing-up in college, but can't God also be Kerouac's "pooh bear?'' 
Who knows? The young man shut the curtains, for the light was keeping him awake. He crawled into bed, and stared up at the ceiling. It was the end of another Friday night, what was going on tomorrow? 
Guy Loranger is a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Congress should institute mandata seatbelt regulations 
Dear Editor: 
For many of us far from your community, and not connected with your university, the recent tragic bus accident involving members of your university community is our loss also. 
I am sure that the friends and families of the victims are still trying to sort out what hap­pened. In time. when the shock and numbness start to wear oil', many people will be looking for an appropriate way to memorialize their lost friends and relatives. I would like to address the rest of my letter to this matter. 
If you will look around the buildings at school. I am sure you will find in the corridors and lecture halls lots of what I think of as "Cocoanut Grove lights," those emergency lights that turn on automatically in the event of a power failure. It is now just about 50 years since the fire at the Cocoanut Grove Night Club in Boston claimed 499 lives. 
One of the main reasons for the high mortality in this fire was the fact that power was in­terrupted to the lighting system, plunging large numbers of people into total darkness at a time when efficient evacuation 

s.s. 

of the premises was critical. This tragic fire was one of the main events which lead people to work for laws and regula­tions to require emergency lighting systems in public places. 
Looking at the newspaper and television pictures of the over­turned bus, it appeared that the basic structure of the vehicle was intact. The bus did not ap­pear to be ripped open or grossly deformed. As a con­tainer for "packaging people" the bus should have provided excellent protection for those inside. In the absence of mas­sive impact with outside ob­jects, I believe the accident should have been easily surviv­able. 
In the summer of 1957 I wit­nessed the crash of a small air­craft at my local airport. Already airborne at full takeotT power a crosswind caused the plane to drift off the runway into tall weeds, in which the landing gear became tangled. The plane flipped tail over nose and crashed upside down and backwards. The aircraft was a total loss. The four people aboard climbed out without any injury except for minor bumps and bruises where they had been restrained by their seat belts. It was indeed an unfor­gettable sight. 
Within a few days I had ob­tained a set of aircraft seatbelts and had them installed in my car by a local mechanic, after we had figured out where we could anchor these contraptions in a vehicle that God obviously never intended to be fitted with seatbelts. In 1960 I added shoulder harness to the lap­belts. This was like putting on a pair of concrete suspenders. The days of inertia reels in cars were still a long way otT. 
I live about 20 miles west of New York City, and periodically will take an intercity bus from my office to Manhattan when attending meetings in the mid­town area. The anticipation of possible attack or mugging is not as great as the apprehen­sion of barreling along on an interstate without a seatbelt. 
I believe that the time is right for a federal "Notre Dame law" to require seatbelts on inter­state buses. Since most intercity buses are used for at least some interstate runs, one federal law would cover all but the in-town buses. You have a large university community, a large alumni body, and a law school. I hope that some of you will be moved by this recent tragedy to work for measures which may spare others from the needless loss of friends and family. 
May you all be comforted, and the may the memory of your friends live in your good works. 
"Non ignara mali, miseris succurrere disco." 
Matthew C. Kartch, M.D. Pompton Plains, NJ Feb. 3,1992 

Accent 
Tuesday, February 11, 1992 page 9 
It's good lor your heart 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students studying in Ireland run tor charity 
By JEANNE DE VITA hour hotline for abused children, Accent Writer which is part,of the Irish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty for 
F 
or two years now, Children. 
members of the Notre Last year, five Saint Mary's and 
Dame and Saint Mary's Notre Dame students studying at 
communities have Saint Patrick's College in Ireland 
pushed their hearts and through the Saint Mary's program legs to the limit in a marathon heard of the international comparable to that of Boston or marathon and decided to trying New York City. running the race. 
One weekend each year thou­After speaking with the college sands of international runners chaplain, the women solicited make their way to Dublin, Ireland funds from friends, family, and 
for the annual Dublin City businesses at home and also locally 
Marathon. Recently, Notre Dame in Ireland to be donated to 
and Saint Mary's students have Childline, with which the college 
joined them-but not just for regularly worked. 
exercise. For approximately a month be­The students ran in an effort to fore the race, the women worked raise money for Childline, a 24-by writing letters, fundraising in 
'Juice' alive with sounds of the street 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
Juice -original modon plctll'e soundtrack

The latest in a line of African­American movies to be released since 
* * * 1/2 

the emergence of Spike Lee, Juice has been described as "Harlem's Boyz n the 
(out of five) 

Hood." 
But while the film has received mixed EPMD and the Cypress Hill Crew also reviews from audiences, its soundtrack make intriguing raps happen. EPMD brings the sound of the street into the stick with their style on "It's Going theater. Down," sounding like they are stuck in a 
Juice's score was composed by Hank metal pipe as rhythm and voice tracks Shocklee's Bomb Squad, who has made echo toward the listener, giving an its mark as the production engine that analysis of Juice's plot. 
drives the Public Enemy machine. Cypress Hill Crew's "Shoot 'Em Up" Shocklee makes his influence felt features a backing guitar, whose muted throughout the film's soundtrack, screams produce a frightening assembling several of hip-hop's biggest background to the song's chorus. and stars. the grunts and groans of several 
The disc kicks off with "Uptown different voices. Anthem." a catchy rap from future megastars Naughty By Nature. Driven Declarations of masculinity seem by a powerful drum line and simple dominate the Juice soundtrack, but one organ and piano keystrokes. Treach and group of women penetrates the his crew earn their juice with this soundtrack. Salt n' Pepa's production of declaration of uptown control. "He's Gamin' on Ya'" provides another 
Eric B. and Hakim produce a rap bright spot. With the loudest bass found masterpiece in "Juice (Know the on the disc, Salt n' Pepa warns of the Ledge)," the soundtrack's first single. ulterior motives of men looking to earn Rapper Hakim describes his efforts to their juice. earn juice (or respect), while each While Salt n' Pepa proclaim women's episode brings him nearer to the ledge power, two Oakland rappers survey life which will kill him. The vocals, from a decidedly male perspective. delivered in classic Hakim fashion over Too Short, a boyhood friend of Juice Eric B.'s scratching, give the best star Tupac Shakur (of Digital interpretation of the film's story. Underground) was also supposed to 
Big Daddy Kane cuts to the heart of make an appearance in the movie. 
the battles for juice with "Nuff' However, his schedule limited him to a Respect," produced by Shocklee, which soundtrack contribution. comes with the wailing wall of sound Too Short sticks to his chosen path known to Public Enemy fans. and warns of the dangers and evils of the college student center, and designing a t-shirt with another St. Patrick's student to prepare for the race. The 26.4 mile marathon was run relay-style with miles divided equally among the women. 

N 
otre Dame junior Colleen Knight shared her experiences in the 1990 marathon. 
"It was just the neatest feeling running in an international marathon," said Knight. "All of us were really motivated ... we realized we could make a difference." 
"At the beginning," said Knight, "we thought, 'there's no way we can do this.' We felt like we were taking a chance...lt turned out .so much bigger than we thought it could be." 
She described giving the check to the head of fundraising for Childline as "It meant a lot," she said, for the charity to receive a 1,000 pound check "from five girls from America who just happened to be studying in Ireland." 
Knight expressed her excitement that students studying in Ireland this year continued the tradition. 
This year, there were six Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students participating in the marathon and raising money for Childline. 
Maureen O'Shea, Molly O'Connell, Aimee Barnes, Sean Ryan, Jenny Collins, and Jenny Breidenbach are currently studying at St. Patrick's College through the Saint Mary's Ireland program. 

The soundtrack from the movie 'Juice' features songs from musical groups such as Salt n'Pepa and Juvenile Committee. 
the life of crime with "So You Want To Rahiem comes from rap's roots. An Be A Gangster," while newcomer M. C. original member of Grandmaster Flash Pooh, in a style similar to that of Too and the Furious Five, Rahiem exhibits Short and Eazy-E, describes this life both his classic rapping style and a with "Sex, Money and Murder." soulful singing voice with "Does Your 
Another youthful group appearing on Man Know About Me." the soundtrack is Juvenile Committee, a Several other songs on the album, group of 13-to 16-year-olds discovered including Teddy Riley's "Is It Good To in the Los Angeles ghetto of Watts by You" and the Brand New Heavies' NWA. "Flipside" is an exciting, driving "People Get Ready" add powerful song whose energy is intensified by the singing voices to highly-developed excitement of Juvenile Committee's high instrumental backing, but are generally voices. disappointing. Guy's Aaron Hall adds his 
While Juvenile Committee represents magnificent voice to the fold with "Don't one of hip-hop's future directions, Be Afraid." 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, February 11, 1992 
Docter's addiction, media hinder performance in Albertville 
ALBEHTVILLE, Franee-(API Ev1~ry day of sobriety is a vic­tory for Mary Docter, but the 
U.S. speedskater says the at­tnntion given lwr light against drug and alcohol addiction eon­tributNI to a losing eiTort. 
Docter, who entered a reha­bilitation center in March 1990, was hoping for a Top l 0 lin ish in tlw women's 3,000 meters Sunday. But she wound up a disappointing 15th-a finish she blamed partially on her de­cision earlier this year to go public with her recovery. 
"I wasn't concentrating on my race last night. I was thinking about how I was going to deal w S ~he questions I get from tlw press," Docter said. "That's my own fault and that's why I really regret telling my story in the lirst place." 

Docter, 31, of Madison, Wis., turned in a time of 4:34.51 in her fourth Olympics. In 1988 at Calgary, she finished 19th in the 3,000 and 11th in the 5,000 meters. She said later that she was not in shape at Calgary and hit the town looking for the parties, not medals. 
''I'm really sad and also I'm really seared," Docter said. "I feel really mutilated by a lot of articles. Misquotes, lies, actual lies-and I don't lie." 
"I know that I haven't said a lot of these things and I'm reading them in the paper and I just think, 'Why did I bring up my recovery story in the first plaee?' It's really turned out to hurt me morn than help me." 
Heports that she was stoned during the Calgary Olympics and did cocaine when she was skating were fals1~. Docter said. 
''I'm a very strong person. I'm a good person. I don't lin. I don't steal. I don't chnat. I have improved my spirituality in the last year. I have improved my physical litness in thn last year. I've improved my emotional stability in the last year," DortPr said. "llow many of you can't even losn five pounds, much less get rid of an addiction'!" 

The Observer accepts class1fieds every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame off1ce. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Sa1nt Mary·s off1ce. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classofieds is 3p.m. All classifoeds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, includong all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from ND 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
AVOID THE RUSH & LONG. LONG LINES. 
SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS TODAY. STOP IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE ANYTIME BETWEEN 
8 AM-3:30PM DAILY. 
flares para los muertos 
L..-L_O_S_T_I_F_O_U_N_D___.I 
FOUND Orange b1ke in Nieuwland Hall last semester. Here's the catch-I'm not sure that it is not m1ne that was stolen earlier in the year. If you can prove that it's yours. call Doc @ 234-1 048 
Found: scarf in niewland classroom Lost: hat. green and blue pla1d call 1007 
Help! I Can't see Lost: GLASSES in black case on tuesday, perhaps in or near washington hall. If I don't get them soon I'll start flunking my classes. 
Dave, x2187 
Found: Men's watch 1n the Final Exam room for Todd Whitmore's War, Law, and Ethics during Fall Exam Week Inquire at Lost and Found in Hesburgh Library. 
LOST IRISH GOLD RING IN THE HUDDLE PLEASE CALL CLAUDINE IN DELl AT 239-5044. 
LOST: Pair of round-frame, prescription sunglasses-I can't ski/see without them!! Please call x4980 
LOST: FRESHWATER PEARL & GOLD BEAD BRACELET ON 2/7. CALL ANNE 234-1752. 
REWARD!!! REWARD!!! REWARD!!! Lost: Gold cha1n w1th half heart pendant. 1/27 between SDH and JACC. VERY SENTIMENTALII!!!!IIIII Call Ryan x1134 
LOSTII AT THE SOPHMORE FORMAL BLACK BRAE FER coat w1th the name D1ggy on the nametag. Please call Becky at 284­4107. 
~-W_A_N_T_E_D__~I 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11 

ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE 
ROOM AND BOARD for part-time 
summer help wtth toddlers. 
Barrington. IL area. Call 708-428­
1051 
$40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY' Fun. relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK 
TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING 
BREAK IN JAMAICA/CANCUN. 
FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL. 
AIR, TRANSFERS. 
SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­
7710. 
I FOR RENT 
ffiR'RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST LAST+ SEC. 684-3778 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY 
ALARM.FURNISHEDWALK TO 
CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 
ROOM TO RENT USE OF ALL UTILITIES/FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. $225/MO. PAUL 232­2794. 
Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's families. 2 bedrooms. private bath. Ten minutes from campus. Safest neighborhood in area 234-2626. 
FOR SALE 

LEATHER JACKETS FOR MEN. 
IMPORT. TOP QUAL. SUITABLE 
PRICE. CALL. 239-7709 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100,65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright # 1 N 11 KJC 
Need any house PAINTING done? Experienced, quality painting at reasonable prices. Call Mark at 277-6578. 
FENDER GUITAR AMP: Tube amp, for practice/performing, 2 inputs (high/low gain). tone, vibrato. exc. cond. 271-0138 
TICKETS 

Need 1 NO/UCLA ticket Judy 239-651 5 
~~==P=ER=S=O=N=A=L~ 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER VACATIONS! Jamaica. Bahamas including airfare. great hotel. and much more from only $599 Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time 
mother seek newborn to join family. 
We promise your baby love and 
understanding, a good education & 
fun. Supportive grandparents. 
Legal. Call Bev & Howard 
COLLECT 914-235-3917. 
I love Chris Lozier 
CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11. 
IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS. COME IN ANYTIME DAILY BEFORE 3:30 PM AND AVOID THE LAST MINUTE LINES. 
Smicicious-of or having to do with 
SMC like behavior. Meaning very 
light headed or minimal thought 
behavior. 

Derivation: from the SMC meaning 
bubble head. 
Dear Brendan. 

Would you cuddle with me? 
Love, 

Gumbo! Drumstick 
Waking Nose, 
I am the culprit. 
Leeks in the Night 

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 
for only $1 99! 7 nights 
at beachfront Ramada Inn 
and bus transportation incl. 
Call Barb 239-7667 for info. 
Deadline for sign-ups extended to 
Feb. 14. 

$75 non-refundable deposit due at 
sign-up. SUB sponsored. 
Beta Jeff, 

Who is the best? Are you the best? 
BBBRRRRRRRRRRRFFFFF!!!!!!!!!!! 
Sha up! 

TOP 10 QUOTES FROM THE FLANNER/SIEGFRIED RETREAT 1O.One Bud. One Body. 
9. I think I'm dead, but I don't know. 
8. No way! WAY!! 
7. Oh. my gosh! 

6. Why didn't I lock the door? 
5. Suppose you're a guy/girl.. 
4. It's in my head. I just can't think of it. 
3. Barbie? Farley? Carly? 
2. Erin, patron saint of social rejects. 
1. Let the killing begin. And ftve bonus quotes: "Jesus is WAY cool." "Siinkaholics Anonymous." "Frank! Frank! Frank! Frank!" "Sounds like Rtch Delevan?" "Or do you go to a public private place-LaFortune, the P1t, the weight room ..." 
MIND SIROTILC SHALL RISE 
ABOVE THE REST BECAUSE WE 
ARE KING. 
Hey Steve Deick­
Wh!le it is an extreme personal 
disappointment for me (!), I can deal 
with your being a choir dropout and 
a potential traitor. but I cannot 
tolerate your neglecting my co­
worker and your little sister!!! 
Maybe you ought to remedy this 
situation!!'! 
From????? 
JON MATIINGLY. 
You're cordially invited to continue 
your membership in the Ladie's 
Club. 

Love, 
Jill &Mary 
SOMEBODY WANTS FLOWERS 
FROM YOU II! 
WHO DO YOU WANT FLOWERS 
OR BALLOONS FROM?? 
GET GUSHY-IT'S THAT GROSS VALENTINE TIME OF YEAR 
Come to Irish Gardens (base-ment of LaFortune).LAST DAY FOR VALENTINE ORDERS IS WEDNESDAY the 12th!!!! 
WEDNESDAY 
WEDNESDAY 
TOMORROW 
WEDNESDAY 
IRISH GARDENS DELIVERS TO 
NOTRE DAME AND STMARY'S!! 
Come in and we'll brighten the day 
of someone you know' 
DEADLINE for VALENTINE DAY 
delivery orders is Wednesday! 
WEDNESDAY 
SUBLIMINAL 
WEDNESDAY 
HURRY UPIII!!! 
hey nil 

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­8373 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days 
$279! Panama City $99, Padre 
$199, Cancun from Chicago $499, 
Jamaica $399. Call Lance 271­
1681 or Lisa 283-4667 
or 1-800-638-6786. 
FAST EASY INCOME! Earn 1OO's Weeekly Stuffing envelopes. Send self-addressed stamped envelope to: Extra income! 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL 60681-1699 
SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona, $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas $449. Best prices & accommodations guaranteed!!! 1 (800) 724-1555 or 236-5825 (24 hrs.) 
We've been helping to meet the needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual students and their friends for almost 20 years. Write us with your questions or suggestions. CONFIDENTIALITY GUARANTEED' 
GL!@/SMC. Box 194. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Why isn't your dorm a Safe Haven? Why isn't your class a Safe Haven? Why isn't your organization a Safe Haven? Take care of yourself and your friends: do something about it! 
Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN 
EVERYTHING YOU KNOW IS WRONG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Come see big, burly German men at the Cavanaugh Hall Play. February 27, 28, and 29 Washington HallS p.m. Donations accepted for the Andy Sowder Scholarship fund 
To the "cute little red haired girl" sitting in section 3 row 14 or 15 on the aisle during the Detroit game. the taller of the two Rob's sitting a couple of rows in front of you and to your left would like to know if you'd like to go out sometime. Call me 277-6932. 
N.D. Best Buddies T-shirts!! $10 at NDH & SDH 2/11-2/13 (Tue-Thu) Great Valentine's Day gift!!!! 
Thought for the day: When it rains, you get wet, unless of course you have an umbrella. 
..MAGIC SEVEN + 1 •• Top ten quotes from "The magic seven at CJ's" 1O.We know who's Chicken. but who is Moose? 9.Can we play "I'm too sexy 100 more times?" 8.Forget the tip. more pitchers. ?."Why don't we get drunk and sing." 6.1'11 give you 10 bucks if you drink what's in that cup. 5.So what are we doing for her 21 'st birthday? 
4. "Stella" 

3. And to think I was gonna bum a smoke from my dad's lawyer. 
2. Buy those girls a pitcher or 2 or 3 or4.. 1."1 NEVER. .."-and everyone drinks 
Top 9 Reasons Why NOT to be Friends with Anne. JZ. April +Dana 9)They live in PW 8)They live on 2nd FL PW ?)They have a fascination with dog books 6)They're too stupid to know how to fill up their gas tanks 5)They get wasted on 2 Purple Passions 4)They have a telephone 3)0nly ONE of them breaks parietals 2)They have NO LIVES 1 )They're not C..K-SUCKERS! 
Deep Thoughts on Shannon McCarthy's 20th: 
a) 
Do squirrels play at night? 

b) 
Did she ever find the physical forms? 

c) 
What's she doing this weekend? 

d) 
What do w.j.s. feel like? 

e) 
Why do fools fall in love? Luv, Your Roomtes 


BUT FROM THE CROTCH OF THE EARTH ROSE DR. SMEGMA. APPEALING YET SMELLY THE WORLD CRINGED IN TERROR. 
Sweetie, Thinking of you now and forever Babe 
To the person or persons who knocked over our snowman in front of Knott Hall on Sunday. we spent a lot of time and effort builing 11 He was our friend, and you killed him. We hope you feel really guilty and lose sleep over this, because you hurt our feelings. 
The Cavanaugh hockey team is led by the Roman god of fertility, but they play like fetuses in silk boxers. Go Black Plague. 
Creighton Creighton Cretghton 
Hi Jan-what's up. Just thought I'd tell you that you wear overalls well 
BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW to Bahamas. S. Padre. Cancun. Panama City, or Jamiaca From LISA at x4667. Trips are selling FAST! Don't be left out!! 
BOSKI is too SEXY for his Lizard King!!! 
Alicia. I have spared you as of yet.. 
ANCIENT PROVERB: THE SMEGMA IS ALWAYS GOOIER ON THE OTHER SIDE. 
Meg, FRIENDS FOREVER I Love ya, Liz and Michelle 
DAYTONA BEACH SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,_Sffl STEAMBOAT ..~.lf22 PANAMA CITY BEACH ..~.lf22 FORT LAUDERDALE 
·-~.lfJ& 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
·-'"9
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS ·-~.lf28
-TWAIT 'TIL IT'S roo I.ATI' 
11th Annual Celebration! 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·59tl 
~ 
... 
~~~ 
_______...____ 


-----~­
------------~---­
SCOREBOARD
Tuesday, February 11 , 1992 
page 11 

NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE WESTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Olvlalon Midwest Divlalon w L Pet rn w L Pet rn 
OLYMPIC ICE HOCKEY STANDINGS 
New York  30  16  .652  Utah  31  t8  .633  
Boston  28  18  .609  2  San Antonio  27  t9  .587  
Philadelphia  23  24  .489  7 tl2  Houston  25  22  .532  
Miami  23  25  .479  8  Denver  t7  29  .370  
Now Jersey  t9  28  .404  t1  t/2  Dallas  13  34  .277  
Washington  16  30  .348  t4  MinnosOla  8  38  .t74  
Orlando  t2  36  .250  t9  
Pacific  Divlalon  
Central  Oivlalon  Portland  32  t4  .696  
Chicago  39  9  .813  Phoenix  32  t6  .667  
Cleveland  3t  14  .689  6t/2  Golden State  29  t5  .659  
Detroit  28  20  .583  tt  LA L.akers  28  t8  .609  
Atlanta  24  23  .511  t4 112  Seattle  24  24  .500  
Milwaukee  22  24  .478  t6  LA Clippers  22  25  .468  
Indiana  t9  29  .398  20  Sacramento  16  31  .340  
Charlotte  14  33  .298  24 t/2  

Happy 21st Birthday Lisa! We Love You Lots, Mom, Dad, Erin, 
2t12 
5 
t2 t/2 t7 21 tl2 
t 2 4 9 tO tl2 t6 t/2 

AU3ERTVRLE 92 
::::
00
.~~= :=::~~{:::=:=··

\:i:; 


Through Sunday 
w 

Sweden Finland United States 1 Germany 0 Italy ·o Poland 0 
Canada Czechoslovakia Unified Team 1 France 0 Norway 0 Switzerland 0 
Monday's results: Unified Team 8, Norway 1 Czechoslovakia 6, France 4 Canada 6, Switzerland 1 
fRifNDS DON'T lH fRifNDS DRIVf DRUNK 
The most reusable piece of plastic on campus. 

The AT&T Calling Card will never go to waste. You can use it to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere. Once you have one, you'll never need to apply for another. Its the least expensive way 
to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct. 0 And now you could also get 10% back on all 
the long distance calls you make with your card.* 0 Of course when you use your Calling Card, you'll 
always be connected to the reliable service you've come to expect from AT&T. 0 So, as you see, there's 
only one way to describe the AT&T Calling Card in today's college environment. Indispensable. 
Get an AT&TCalling Card today. Calll 800 654-0471 Ext. 9728. 
• Must make ast least $30 worth ol AT&T Long Drstance calls w1th your AT&T Card per quarter_ Calls covered by spec1al AT&T 
priCing plans are not 1ncluded ©t992AT&T 


L  T  Pts  GF  GA  
0  0  2  7  2  
0  0  2  5  1  
0  0  2  6  3  
0  0  1  5  
0  0  3  6  
0  0  2  7  
0  0  2  3  2  
0  0  2  10  1  
0  0  2  8  t  
1  0  0  2  3  
1  0  0  1  10  
0  0  1  8  

Sunday's results: Sweden 7, Poland 2 Finland 5, Germany 1 United States 6, Italy 3 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

MEDALS 
Through Monday, Feb. 10 
G s B T 

Austria 2 2 3 7 Germany 2 4 Norway 3 Unified Team 0 2 Finland 0 1 1 2 United States 1 0 0 1 China 0 0 France 0 0 1 
School (First Rank place votes) Record Pts. Pvs. 
1 Duke (61) 18·1 1,621 1 2 Okla. St. (2) 21-1 1,529 2 3 UCLA(2) 1H 1,508 4 4 Indiana 17-3 1,358 6 5 Kansas 17-2 1,358 3 6 North Carolina 17-3 1,259 9 7 Arizona 17~3 1 ;249 7 8 Ohio SL 16-3 1;234 8 9 Missouri 16-3 1,041 12 10 Syracuse 16-3 903 13 11 Arkallslls 17-5 900 5 12 Michigan St. 15-4 790 11 13 Southern Cal 16-3 766 16 14 Tulane 18-2 704 14 15 UNLV 20-2 703 17 16 Alabama 19-4 670 18 17 Michigan 14-5 638 15 18 Connecticut 16-4 630 10 19 Kentucky 16-5 450 19 
20 LSU 14-5 361 22 21 Texas-Ei Paso 18-3 279 25 22 N.C. Charlotte 16-4 220 20 23 Florida St. 15-6 195 23 24 Cincinnati 17-3 139 25 Seton Hall 13-6 100 
AP 

As T A I FIRIAIM. s
R 'I'

S T E N G E L L I IB RTA R Y T I C K L ~& R Afi S II N S 0 R T H 0 E R I C -N I T -0 S .Q R E G RfE S IS E S DIN. 

SELF HELP ...... R 0 
s

I fL IBIPIN 
E N C I 
R F G A SIP 
N 0
OIF

-p
I \M 
IE 

N T 0.C S T A v Ali L lA B L E ITA 0­
N 0 M....IB E X D R U P E Z I PICIOTO El't C H ER 0 N A L LTOTVTE R c H A N s 0 N C A YIMIAIN S TAT T E R S 
Tyson down for count as jury delivers guilty verdict 

Observer Staff Report 

Former heavyweight champ Mike Tyson lost his toughest fight last night, and the consequences could be dire. 
After over ten hours of deliberation, an Indianapolis jury found Tyson guilty on one count of rape and two counts of criminal conduct stemmjng from an incident last summer at Miss Black America pageant rehearsal. 
Each of the charges comes with a maximum 20 year sentence, so Tyson could face up to 60 years behind bars. 
Sentencing is set for March 6th, and a study released today noted that judge Patricia J. Gifford's average sentence for rape is seven years. 
The attorneys for the prosecution delivered powerful closing arguments, presumably enough to convince the jury of Tyson's guilt. 
Mike Tyson used his boxing notoriety to coax a star-struck 18-year-old girl to his bedroom, then became a common criminal, a prosecutor said today during closing arguments at the boxer's rape trial. 
"The defendant used his fame and reputation in the same identical manner as a thug in the alley uses a knife and gun ... to accomplish the purpose of forced intercourse -rape," deputy prosecutor Barbara Trathen told a Marion Superior Court jury. 
She dismissed Tyson's claim that the woman readily agreed to his crude sexual solicitation, calling his story "the lie" and replaying a tape of grand jury testimony in which the boxer said he simply asked the woman for a date. 
The former heavyweight champion gained the woman's trust with a soothing remark ­"You're a nice Christian girl" ­when the two met at a pageant 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m., at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball will have an organiztional meeting on Wednesday, February 12. Anyone interested in commissioner or assistant commissioner positions is welcome to attend and should call 287-9548 for information on time and place. 

•An 
Informational meeting for cheerleadlng and leprechaun tryouts will be held on Wednesday, February 12 at 7 


p.m. in the Football Auditorium in J.A.C.C. 
•The 
Shick Super Hoops 3-on-3 basketball tournament for SMC students will take place Saturday, February 15. The registration deadline is Thursday, February 13 at 5 p.m. Winners wiU receive t-shirts, sports bags and qualify for the Indiana State tourney. For more information call 284-5548. 

•The 
NO Cricket Club will have practice Wednesday , February 12, at 10 p.m. at Loftus. Club elections will be discussed. All are welcome to attend. For information call Tim at 283-1473. 

•WVFI 
will broadcast tonight's Stanford-Notre Dame game at 8 p.m. Tune into 640 AM for all the live action. 


2 GAMES $4 
• CATCH TWO GAMES FOR • HALF THE PRICE OF ONE! 
•• Don't miss a special : Notre Dame basketball doubleheader!
•
•
• 
: t2iJ 
•e ~ 
Women's Basketball vs. DePaul 5:30pm ~ Men's Basketball vs. Stanford rr~:;:· 8:00pm 
• 
If you buy a ticket at Gate 10 before the conclusion : of th~ first half of the women's game, your ticket will e cost JUSt ~ and will provide admission to both the : wo~en's game and the men's game immediately following. 

• 
Tickets must be purchased between 4:30pm game day e and the conclusion of the first half of the women•s game. : Only 1000 of these specially priced tickets will be available. 

• 
So come cheer on your Fighting Irish basketball teams : with a great deal!! 


e •Special price does not apply to tickets purchased in advance. 
.• 

Mike Tyson 

rehearsal for the Miss Black America contest, Trathen said. 
"He says 'You want to go out on a date?' She says 'Sure.' -a knee-jerk response," she said. 
But Tyson was nothing but "a wolf in sheep's clothes" when he later wore a button that read "Together in Christ" and appeared to pray briefly with Jesse Jackson at the pageant's opening ceremonies, she said. 
"What is this 18-year-old girl to tl).ink?" she said. "That he would take her up to 
his hotel room and rape her didn't even enter her mind," she said. 
Trathen recapped prosecution testimony from an emergency doctor who said the woman's two vaginal abrasions were consistent with forced sex. She reminded jurors the limousine driver described the accuser as being "in a state of shock" when she left the hotel. 
The prosecutor dismissed the testimony of defense witnesses who said Tyson made sexually suggestive comments and grabbed women at the re­hearsal. The defense said the boxer made his sexual inten­tions clear. 
Tyson, 25, is accused of rap­ing the woman in his hotel room July 19. He could get up to 60 years in prison. The de­fense has argued she consented to sex, then turned on Tyson, hoping to win a conviction and get rich suing him. 
The boxer testified Friday that he told the woman, using a common vulgarity, that he wanted to have sex with her after they met at a July 18 pageant rehearsal. He said she replied, "Sure! Give me a call." 
During cross-examination Saturday, prosecutor Greg Garrison asked the former world heavyweight champ why he told a different story in August to the grand jury that indicted him. Tyson said the graphic language made him un­comfortable and that a prose­cutor who questioned him be­fore the grand jury cut him ofT. 
Eleven pageant contestants testified for the defense. Many said that Tyson pawed and propositioned the beauty con­testants -behavior that ac­cording to the defense shows Tyson made it clear he was out for sex. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
·-----­

iTHLETES..·~--------­
oN FIELD DURING FOOTBALL GAMES? TRAVEL? ON THE BASKETBALL COURT? 
SUPPORT YOUR NOTRE DAME TEAMS IN THE MOST SPIRITED WAY­
BE A CHEERLEADER! 
Tryout Information Meeting 
WEDNESDAY, FEB.12, 7:00PM 
FOOTBALL AUDITORIUM IN THE JACC. 
•
• 
•: 
• : 
•e e 
• :· • : 
e 
• : • 
: 
.•e 

• 
37".951 
~-~~~-~-'~ 
The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
• SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions of cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This makes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GURANTEE: 
• 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SOUTII BEND: SR 23 & Ironwood/ 277-7744 3010 Lincolnway West/ 232-2VO 4444 Western Ave./288-5516 
US 31 N(In Front Of North Village Mall)/217-1024 115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 
MISHAWAKA: 1338 Lincolnway East/ 255-3322 
2315 Lincolnway West/ 256-1220 517649 Grape Road/ V2-1772 LAPORTE: 326-5818 PLYMOUTII: 936-8317 COLDWATER, MI: 517-V9-7412 


~~~ 
...................................._.............................
~ 

Tuesday, February 11, 1992 
Canada looms as a possibility for Howard 

The Observer 

Desmond Howard 
team," Howard said. "I'll go to any team that drafts me and give my best and try to help them become a winning combi­nation." 
"lie's an interesting player, and someone wr. definitely want to take a good. long look at," Colts general manager Jim lrsay said. "If we feel he's one of the two best players in the draft, then you never know what might happen. Hight now, it's too early to tell." 
Howard, who could have elected to remain at Michigan for another year, decided to enter the NFL draft this year, and will likely be one of the top picks. 
Notre Dame  as  a  Catholic  University  
Ideas  and  Issues  Committee  
of the  

Student Union Board presents 
TEACHING VS. RESEARCH: 
HOW WILL THE TRANSITION TO A NATIONAL CATHOLIC RESEARCH INSTITUTION AFFECT STUDENTS? 
A Student Forum Exploring the Future of Undergraduate Education at Notre Dame 
Panel Discussion featuring: 
Morton S. Fuchs Chairman, Professor, Biological Sciences 
David K. O'Connor Associate P:r::ofessor, Philosophy 
Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C. Assistant Professor, Government 
William D. Nichols Professor, Accountancy 
Including: Student Government Report to the Board ofTrustees 

Wednesday, February 12 8pm Hesburgh Library Lounge 
-------~----~-------­
page 13 

German wins luge as USA falters 
LA PLAGNE, France (AP) ­
Georg llackl of Germany, the 
198S silver medalist, won gold 
this time in the men's singles 
luge Monday at the Winter 
Olympics today in a close race 
with two Austrians. 
American medal hopes fiz­
zled. Duncan Kennedy of Lake 
Placid, N.Y., second in the 
World Cup this season, finished 
10th. 

Hackl widened his first-day 
lead, leaving Markus Prock of 
Austria with the silver medal. 
Markus Schmidt, another 
Austrian, won the bronze. 
Hackl, a 25-year-old soldier 
who competed for East 
Germany before unification, 
clocked a four-heat time of 3 
minutes, 2.363 seconds in the 
two-day event, .306 faster than 
Prock. Schmidt was .579 off the 
pace. 

Hackl, a two-time world 
champion, pumped his fists in 
the air after his final run. 
"I tried to take it like in prac­
tice," he said. 
Hackl took the lead with a 
track record in Sunday's first 
run and never let go. 
He posted the fastest times in 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Desmond !toward of Michigan isn't ruling out following fellow lleisman Trophy winner Rocket Ismail of Notre Danw into the Canadiar1 Football League. 
"Canada is an option," the fornwr Michigan star said last weekend at the NFL s<;outing combine. "llow mueh of an op­tion I ean't say ber.ausc I don't think th1~y have expressed the amount of interest in me they'll havr. to in order to get out of the NFL." . 
Toronto owner Bruen McNall guarantePd $1S million over four years to lure Ismail last year. 
Howard. who is rompleting his dassroom work and plans to run traek for Michigan this spring. didn't work out at the combirw, but took a physical. lie also me.t with representa­tives of tlw Indianapolis Colts who hold the top two sr.lections in the April 26-27 draft. lie plans to hold a workout for in­ten~sted teams at Miehigan early rwxt month. 
"I wouldn't have a problem playing for any professional 
three heats, including both on 
Monday, when fresh snow 
slowed the course. 
Prock, who failed to meet 
medal expectations at the 1988 
Calgary Winter Games, was 
third going into the final day. 
He overtook Schmidt when his 
compatriot faltered in the third 
run. 

It was the first Olympic medal 
for Prock, 26, this season's 
World Cup champion. 
Defending Olympic champion 
Jens Muller of Germany fin­
ished fifth, behind Italy's 
Norbert Huber. 
Kennedy finished 1.489 sec­
onds behind the winner. 
Although he missed an 
expected medal, his 1Oth place 
was the best finish ever for an 
American luger in the Winter 
Olympics. 
Kennedy buried hopes for the 
first U.S. luge medal with a 
rough second run Sunday. He 
held his ground Monday, post­
ing the eighth and 12th fastest 
times in the wrapup runs. 
"He had a perfect setup after the first run, just close behind (the leaders)," U.S. coach Wolfgang Schadler said of Sunday's runs. 
Hackl, who finished third in the World Cup, improved the course record of Austria's Hobert Manzenreiter, which stood at 45.735. The 1988 Olympic runner-up and a two­time world champion set a track record of 45.190 seconds in Sunday's first heat. 
His first-day total of 1:30.541 was .118 ahead of Schmidt and .145 faster than Prock. 
"There are two Austrians be­hind Hackl," Prock said. "We hope one will beat him." 
They never did. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
droughts where we are going four or five minutes with only one field goal or one foul shot. 
"We need Billy Taylor to start chipping in with eight to ten points per game, and Keith Tower has to add six or eight points." 
The Irish must do these things and control Adam Keefe. If they do so, their losing streak ~ould be history. If they do not, 1t could be a long night for Notre Dame. 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 11, 1992 
ND/SMC synchronized swimming club places eighth 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Synchronized Swim Club piaecd eighth at the College Synchronized Swim Association Meet Fnb. 8th at Ohio State. 
Competing in only their sec­ond meet of the season, the Irish fared well against stiff eompetition. Joining Notre Dame/ St. Mary's and Ohio St. in the field of nine were Miehigan. Penn St. lllinios, Cadton CollegH, Miami University, Richmond, and Millersville. 
The only previous competition for the club was three weeks ago at Michigan where NDISMC finished an im­pressive fourth. 
"I thought we did really well in both meets <~onsidering we are such a small team,~ said eluh presidP.nt Ann Ball. 
In individual action NDISMC had three swimmflrs rHceive individual honors. Notre Dame sophomore, Nicole Rizzo was the highest finisher, capturing fourth in the junior figures competition. 
Joining Hizzo in the awards ceremonies were Debbie James and Ball, both reeipients of fifth place awards in the novice figures eompetition. Hizzo again shined in solo routines, pladng fifth overall. 
"Nicole is by far thH most dedicated swimmer on the team," said Ball. "ShH is also the most advanced swimmer we hav£l." 
ND/SMC placed ninth out of ten in the team routine, consisting of eight swimmers. With only eight female swimmers, the team was forced to use all swimmers in the team routine competition. 
The club is in its fifth year of existence, this year marking the first season as a non· varsity sport. and ND/SMC is forced to compete against a majority of varsity teams. 
Despite the difficulty the squad has had against their va•·sity counterparts, Rizzo and fellow sophomore Kevyn Comstock have shined, and will represent the club in the regional and national champi· onships to be held in April. 
"I think Nicole and Kevyn will do very well in the duct competition," said Ball. UThey have practiced a lot on their routine." 

Men's volleyball team spikes Toledo 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
·Led by a powerful corps of middle hitters, the Notre Dame men's volleyball team unleashed a deadly offensive assault on the University of Tolodo last night. The result was a 15-6, 15-1, 15-8 sweep by the Irish. 
Middle hitters Brian Ceponis, 
P.J. Stettin, and Chris Murdy accounted for 15 of Notre Dame's 30 kills. Those three wore astoundingly efficient, making only one error among them and combining for a 61 percent kill effieiency. 
Toledo took its only leads of the match in game one at 1-0 and 2-1. Notre Dame quickly took control, though, scoring seven unanswered points to pull ahead 11-4. Mike Flecker and Dave Bose each tallied three kills in the game. 
If there was any doubt about Irish dominance in game one, it was quickly dispelled when Notre Dame reeled off the first 13 points of the second game. Sean Tucker and Won Suh set up a bevy of Irish hitters, as seven different members of Notre Dame's balanced attack recorded kills. 
Non-starters saw much of the action for both teams in game throe. After taking an early lead, Notre Dame iced the ganw with live straight points to make the score 14-5. Toledo was clearly frustrated by the Irish firepower, as they committnd six errors in an eight-point stretch. Murdy and Stettin led Notre Dame with four kills apiece. 
Eric Erickson topped Toledo with six kills on the match. Stettin paced the Irish with seven kills, and Flecknr added six for the night. 
While Notre Dame dominated in every aspect of the match, Flecker cited serving and hitting as the keys. 
"We served really well," said the dub president. "We tried to place our serves more this game, and I think wo really ac­complished that. Our hitting was also good. We ran a lot of different plays." 
Head coach Kim Reefer agreed that the hitting was good and added that things were improved in just her sec­ond game at the helm. 
"We were more comfortable tonight because it was our sec­ond match together," Reefer said. "We played a lot better as far as that goes." 
Beefer took over the team be­fore last I<riday's victory against Ball State. While the Irish have already made strides since then, ileefer is quick to point out that she is not satislind. 
"I think we have a lot of work to do." slw stated, "but it's go­ing to be fun. The guys are pretty far along, but I think tlwy can go further." 
Henfer plans to concentrate her efforts on improving tlw tnam's blocking and passing. 
"In the men's ganw blocking is a huge factor, because most of the defense is played at the net," she explained. "We also need to make sure that our passes are there so that we can run the oll'ense we need to." 
With thn victory, Notre Dame improved its match record to 4­
0. The Irish will host Western Michigan at 7:30 Wednesday night in the JACC pit. 

I I 
~·2JAmerican HeartV Association 'M1lE FIGHfll'oG Fal 'IOURLIFf 

Campus Ministry... 
••• Cons ide rations 


About a week ago, I returned to the office to look for my daily planner. I didn't find it, so I gathered my things and made a note to call around to see if I had left it at any of my meetings earlier that day, and I headed out to my car. 
Freezing rain came down as I approached the front of Siegfried Hall where my car was parked. SSSssscchhhwuup! Poom! Before I new it, my hands were in the air and I was staring at the sky. I had slipped and fallen directly on my back. 
Four students saw me fall and rushed over to see if they could help. One of the young ladies went into the dorm, got a blanket and called security. A young man let me lean against his. leg while sharp pains traveled down my back. 
While I waited for the pain to subside I began thinking about how nice it was to have the students helping file, with no thought of the fact that we were of different races of pedple. I thought to myself, " hhmm...now this is the kind of thing that Dr. King fought so hard for." 
-..One day the South will know that when these disinherited children of God sat down at lunch counters, they were in reality standing up for what is best in the American dream and for the most sacred values in our Judaeo-Christian heritage, thereby bringing our nation back to those great wells of democracy which were dug deep by the founding fathers in their formulation of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence ..." 
Letter From Birmingham Jail 
When I fell, I got a sampling of what that day, Dr. King describes in his letter, will be like. We as Americans, and most of us as Christians, have evolved somewhat into a brother and sisterhood of sorts. Unlike the 1800's, early 1920's, or late 1950's, there are more of us who show compassion towards each other. reaardless of race or reliaion. 
Many people ask the question, "What would Dr. King say if he lived in America today?" Well...truthfully I can't say. Like everyone else I can only conjecture about the answer to that questiOn. He might be proud that minority groups are represented in business, in predominantly white colleges, and in suburban neighborhoods across the nation. On the other hand, he might be disappointed with the covert and sometimes overt prejudices and ignorance that prevails, despite the quest for the rights of all people. 
He might be proud that people of white, black, Native American, Asian or Hispanic descent have a choice as to who their friends wiil be, but disappointed that some refuse to use the opportunity out of fear, peer pressure, or distrust. 
As for those tour students, he would definitely be proud of 
the compassion they displayed, regardless of race. To many people that see me on campus, I look like a normal student. No one would look at me and say 'She must be a part of the administrative staff at Campus Ministry' so I know that they were sincere. I thank them for that. 
You may have noticed, thus far, I have not mentioned what my race is, nor what race the students are. Those of you who know me would know, but for those of you who don't (and to some extent those who do) ...does it matter? 
In keeping with Dr. King's dream for America, I would venture to say that it does matter only to the extent that we maintain respect for racial differences. Ultimately, we are all part of one race--the human race. 
"With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood." 
Dr. King's March on Washington Speecll 

Tuesday, February 11, 1992 
CALVIII AIID HOBBES 
S£E)\OS8t.5, l'lE S\10'JLOKT 
1'\E£\) 1\CCOI'o\I'L\S\\1-o\E~ TO 
~EL GOOD f>..IPJT OVRS£L'IES. SEL~ -l:.srt:.EM S\-lOIJLI>t-(1 13£ 
CO"'I>IIIONI>.L. 

CROSSWORD 
1\-\fl..rS '«\\~ l''IE STOI>I"t.tl OOI~G­\JCI'o\E~K. I 001\lT l'l'tE.I> Th L£fi.RN 1\-\11\GS \b LII<E I<\'{5E.lt. 
l'\oo\ (:\1\E 1\-\E 'tiP..'{ l t>.IV'I. 

~Edward Julius Collegiate CW8807 
ACROSS 1 Partner for Rogers 29 Bookstore category 
----------------------. 
I 
1 

I 
i 
I

The Observer page 15 I 
I 
-' i 
9:l 1\\E stC~8" TO @:X:~) SUI=· Esm:.M I'S TO u:lWER 'lOIJR EXP'CCJ~\I~S 1b i\-IE llcliNT 'N\\ER£. 1\-\t'('R.E f>.LI<tN)'{ lo\8";. 

JAY HOSLER BILL WATIERSON 
TIEFAR.-E GARYtARSON 

55 -de plume Uba ngi8 House styles 31 Annoy 56 Alpine goat 44 Estimated Library at Notre Dame. (2 wds.) 33 Wen 57 Peach or cherry 47 -voyage15 Former Yankee 34 -share 
60 Address part 48 Passe (2 wds.)
manager 38 L.A. suburb (2 wds.) 7 p.m. Feast of Our Lady of Lourdes Lecture: "A Tribute of Our 
50 Soldier from Mel­
16 Campus building 40 Gossip dose 63 River in Hades Blessed Mother." Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. 
bourne17 Delighted 41 Quebec peninsula 65 Finished (2 wds.) 51 French interjection
18 Cereal garnish 42 Baseball hall-of-66 "-d'Amour," 
52 With plenty to
19 Prefix: straight farner Aparicio 1958 song spare
20 Gridder Dickerson 45 -consequence 67 W. Indies islands MENU
54 Verbal contraction
22 College basketball 46 Sweet pepper 68 Pauper's wear 58 Impecunioustourney 49 Chicago time 
59 River to the Danube 23 Bear: Sp. (abbr.) 61 Part of NCO (abbr.) Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
24 Goes backwards 50 Ready for use 
62 Eggs

27 Clamor 53 --tse Manicotti Turkey Cutlets 
64 Half a Latin dance 
Shepherd's Pie Pork Polynesian Roast Chicken with Gravv Brown Rice & Cheese Bake 

Primitive resumes 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 
4 p.m. Presentation: "Beyond Communism: The Church in Czechoslovakia, Report of a Journey," Thomas O'Meara and William Warren. Room 124, Center for Social Concerns. 
7 p.m. Popular Culture Group Film Series: "The Graduate." 
Auditorium, Science Hall, Saint Mary's College.  Sponsored by  
Popular Culture Group, Saint Mary's College.  
7 p.m. Prayer Service: "Martin Luther King, Jr.,  His Dream for  

America: Past, Present, and Future." Basillica of the Sacred Heart. Sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
7 p.m. Film: "Blood Simple." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:15 p.m. Discussion: "Eating Disorders: Putting it all on the Table." Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace. 
9 p.m. Film: "Back to the Future Part III." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Understanding and Managing Family Resources, "Tax Paying and Planning," Kevin Misiewicz. Room 121, Hayes-Healy. Sponsored by department of accountancy and Hesburgh Library. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
3 p.m. Lecture: "China in Light of the Second Russian Revolution," J. Lawrence Burkholder, president emeritus, Goshen College. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Friends of the 
DOWN 

1 Concerning (2 wds.) 2 Mix up 3 Science of con­
struction 4 Egyptian emblems 5 Arctic dwellings 6 Dakotas Indian 7 Aged 
8 0. K. 

9 Small horse-drawn 
carriage 10 Baseball statistic 11 "-longa, vita 
brevis 12 Water pipes 13 Ford or Banks 14 Methods (abbr.) 21 Sports officials 
25 Noted jazz vocalist 26 First name of 
former VP 27 Piece of sediment 28 New Rochelle col­
lege 30 Galbraith's field, 
for short 32 Fra Filippo ­35 Astray (2 wds.) 36 Sisters 37 Scheduled time 
position 39 Playwright Simon 40 Boston time (abbr.} 42 Social reformers 43 River to the 
SUB EXECUTIVE BOARD APPLICATIONS 

MARCH 6-15 7 NIGHTS AT THE AI\MADA INN 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Government receptionist's desk (BAR B) and they are due by
FOR $199 tt
TIt~ <vi+/L~Jt!Jolf Kr4'1f+~ 
February 21, 1992

(BUS TRANSPORrAT'ON INCLUDED) 
<oJtt<~r+ 

Interviews are February 27
Contact the Secretary in the Student Government OffiCe, 
(Sign up lor an Interview when you turn In your application)
2nd Floor Lafortune Student Center Tuesday a 
The positions include: 
CALL 239-7668
February 25, 1992 · 

7:30 PM Board Manager 
DEADLINE FOR SIGN--UPS IS FEBRUARY 14!!! 
Director of Marketing 
Showing at the J.A.C.C. 

(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) Director of Programming Director of Relations 
Tickets are $12.00 for ND/SMC student $18.00 for General Admission 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Sports 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior guard Daimon Sweet, shown here putting in a reverse layup against Duke, will be a key factor in the offense if the Irish hope to snap a three-game losing streak against Stanford tonight. 
Blair brings home first American gold medal 
AI.BEHTVII.LE. France (API -Good as gold once again, Bonnie Blair won her second consecutive women's 500­meter speedskating gold mt~dal today and the first medal of any kind by the United States in the 1992 Winter Olympics. 
Blair, the toast of Champaign, Ill., scooted around the much-criticized Albertville oval in 40.33 seconds, well off her 1988 Olympic and world record of 
39.10 but comfortably ahead of runnerup Ye Qiaobo of China. 
Ye skated three pairs before Blair and took the silver medal in 40.51 seconds. Christa Luding, the 1984 champion and 1988 runnerup to Blair, won the bronze in 40.57 seconds. 
"This is great. lsn 't it great?" Blair shouted as she exited the oval. "It's wonderful!" 
Blair, 27, who will try for two more medals in the 1,500 Wednesday and the 1,000 on Friday, skated an aggressive afld almost technically perfect race. And she needed to. 
Blair got out of the blocks quickly to jump ahead of German skater Angela Hauck and stretched her lead to 20 yards as she rounded the near turn. She wasn't pushed down the stretch, but continued to skate flawlessly, sensing an­other gold was but a few sec­onds away. It was. 
·"She got off to a good start; her first split was 10.7 seconds and that's one of her best 1 OOs -all year," U.S. coach Peter 
Mueller said. "She's a fighter. She's awfully tough." Blair, wearing a dark blue USA racing skin, showed no 
emotion immediately after 
crossing the finish line but ex­
changed high fives with 
Mueller and raised her arms in 
triumph as she skated in front 
of the main grandstand. 
She also hugged some of the 
nearly 50 family members and 
friends who traveled almost 
6,000 miles to watch her· go for 
another gold. They weren't 
disappointed. 
Blair skated in the fifth of 
the 17 pairs, but her fans 
knew immediately she had 
won. The remaining skaters 
weren't in Blair's class ­
especially with an Olympic 
gold medal to be won. 
"She's too good," said Mary Polaski, Bonnie's sister and a speedskating coach herself. 
Bonnie's mother, Eleanor, held her breath during the en­tire race, but her face lit up in excitement when she saw her daughter's time. 
"Now I finally can relax," she said. "This is great. This is a big relief. I'm just shaking all over." 
The race was postponed an hour after unusually warm 50­degree temperatures caused moisture to collect on the 400­meter outdoor oval. 
The postponement obviously helped the skaters, whose times were considerably better than the mediocre times posted by Sunday's 3,000­meter skaters in equally warm conditions. 
Blair couldn't take the Olympics to Champaign, III., so she brought Champaign to the Olympics, with her supporting cast of friends and family. They had planned the trip for months, and they weren't dis­appointed. 

Women set to battle DePaul 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
If a team has trouble execut­
ing, a team will have trouble 
winning ball games. Just ask 
the Notre Dame women's bas­
ketball team. 
The 6-13 Irish will try to get back on the winning track against DePaul tonight after a pair of losses at Xavier and Loyola this weekend. In the middle of a rocky season, the Irish are trying to round off their game with all-around solid play. 
"We are trying to put a game together where we look good at both ends of the floor," said Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "We need to have a hot game with well-played de­fense and well-played offense." 
DePaul, with its proximity to South Bend, traditionally pro­vides a big rivalry for the Irish. DePaul leads the series 9-6, but Notre Dame won last year's contest 81-66. 
The Irish may have some trouble with the Blue Demon's defense which McGraw termed, "big, pressure D." And the DePaul offense is nothing to overlook either. 
Leading the Blue Demons will be junior Rita Hale and seniors forward Stella Woodley and guard Shakuntala Smith. Hale was DePaul's leading scorer and rebounder last year averaging 
10.8 points a game. Woodley averaged 9.7 points a game last year while Smith averaged 7.7. 
"They are much smarter and much more in control," said McGraw. "Their record is not as good as they'd like it to be, but they have played some great teams." 
The Blue Demon's schedule is almost as rigorous as Notre 
Macleod's troops look to bounce back against Stanford 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will look to snap a three-game losing streak tonight when it takes on the Stanford Cardinal tonight at the Joyce ACC at 8 p.m. 
The Cardinal, the defending NIT champions, enter tonight's game with a 13-5 mark; they are 5-4 and in fourth place in the tough Pac-10 Conference. 
"Stanford is a very good team. They play tough half-court basketball and strong defense," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "In the Pac-10, they are overshadowed by UCLA. Arizona and USC, but they are a strong club that I think should be ranked in the top 25." 
All-American candidate Adam Keefe leads Stanford in virtually everything. The six-foot-nine senior forward averages 24.9 points, 12.9 rebounds and 2.2 steals per game, including a season-high 36 points in the Cardinal's 74-60 win over Virginia. 
"Every time down the floor they look to give the ball to Keefe," Irish center Keith Tower commented. "We are going to try to keep the ball out of his hands as much as possi­ble. We want to keep him out further than he is used to play­ing. If we do that he will have to put the ball on the floor, and then we can double team him." 
llowever, Keefe is not the only man the Irish are going to have to stop. Junior guard PetPr Dukes and sophomore forward Brent Williams both enter tonight's contest averaging 11.4 ppg. Dukes is particularly dangerous from behind the three-point line; he is shooting 
47.5 percent from downtown on the year. 
Notre Dame is going to have to deal with injuries to two of its five starters. Point guard Elmer Bennett suffered a bro­ken nose in Sunday's 74-65 loss to Michigan, and Tower is still feeling the effects of the elbow he fractured against DePaul. However, both are expected to be in the starting lineup tonight. 
"The elbow feels pretty good," Tower said. "It is going to be taped to prevent hyperex­tension, but it doesn't affect thP way I play." 
MacLeod feels that the key to the game tonight is going to be the Irish offense. 
"We are going to have to re­act to the double team and move the ball to the open peo­ple," MacLeod added. "We are at the point where we have to lind some consistency. We have been going through scoring 
see IRISH I page 13 


The Observer/Jake Peters The Irish will look to freshman guard Michelle Marciniak, shown here against Australia, to continue her strong play against DePaul tonight. 
Dame's. DePaul has already played five teams, Tennessee, Georgia, Auburn, Penn State, and Western Kentucky, who were all ranked among the na­tion's top eleven in the 1991 NCAA Preview poll. 
The Irish have been experi­menting with different combi­nations of starters in recent games in order to find a new chemistry. Injuries have ham­pered this experimentation with freshman guard Audrey Gomez out with a knee injury and se­nior guard Deb Fitzgerald out with complications from a back problem. 
"We thought we found the right one," said McGraw. "We'll try a new combination against DePaul. We play eight people a lot and the combinations are more based on what the other team has." 
Leading Notre Dame will be senior Comalita llaysbert who topped all Irish scorers against Dayton this weekend with 13 points. Freshman Michelle Marciniak also had a strong game scoring 6. Last Friday night, senior captain Margaret Nowlin was explosive on offense scorin~ 22 points. 
Hopefully, the Irish will hit the jackpot and find a winning combination against DePaul at 
5:30 tonight at the JACC. 






