~·J)!iit-Q~­
e Observer ~intMa~~cam
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

FRIDAY , APRIL 10, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 129 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 




Valedictorian is announced 
Special to the Observer 
Sarah McGrath, an English and philosophy major from Pittsburgh, Kansas, has been named valedictorian of the University of Notre Dame's 1992 graduating class. She will deliver the valedictory address at the commencement exercises May 17. 
The other highest ranking graduates from the University's four colleges are: Joseph Sophy, an English and philosophy major and Margaret Rose Boyce, an English and French major. All three belong to the College of Arts and Letters. 
In the College of Business Administration, Thomas Hester, an accounting major, Frank Agostino, an accounting and Italian major, and Jason Bixby, an accounting major, received the highest rankings. 
In the College of Engineering, lluan-Pu Cui. an electrical engi­neering and math major; Mic·hael Linnert, an electrical engineering major; and David Tomasula. a chemical engineer­ing major, received the highest rankings. 
In the College of Science, lluan-Pu Cui; James Hrach, a preprofessional studies major; Robert Stevenson, a math ma­jor: and Ronald Severino, a preprofessional studies and Italian major, received the highest rankings. 


By TONY POPANZ 
News Writer 
People who are pro-choice are blind to the truth that they are "pro-murder," according to pro-life activist Joseph Scheidler. 
Scheidler, affiliated with the Chicago-based Pro-Life Action League, has spent 19 years campaigning against abortion. 
• Abortion protest I page 5 
In response to the recent pro­choice march on Washington, in which he picketed for pro-life, Scheidler concentrated his talk on his claims that the pro­choice argument was invalid. 
"Because we seek the truth all the time, we cannot avoid it. Pro-abortionists cannot tolerate the truth; thus when they hear the truth and it hurts, they must lie to themselves," said Scheidler. 
Scheidler has marched at sev­eral rallies in front of abortion clinics, and said he has seen patients hurry by because they know that if they stop to talk they will hear "the truth," and possibly act on it. 
"Pro-abortionists are terribly callous," he said. "They claim that what happens is a routine medical operation, and that it simply executes the rights of the mother, for they claim that women have the right to their 
1992-93 manager says SUB will learn from its mistakes 
BY BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 

1992-93 Student Union Board (SUB) Manager Pat McCarthey plans to evaluate past proce­dures and implement several new ideas to make next year's SUB programming "something that will be remembered," he said in an interview Wednesday. 
According to McCarthey, SUB has a "two-fold mission to pro­vide students entertainment and intellectual stimulation" that no one else on campus of­fers. Moreover, SUB is unique in that it offers students a chance to program events, he continued. "Students program for students," he said. 
In response to criticism SUB has received this semester fol­lowing the failure of such events as the Cult/Lenny Kravitz concert and the Howie Mandell performance, McCarthey said SUB is in the process of exam­ining the research methods used to select programs. 
"Our programming mission is to provide entertainment and programming which will inter­est students. We're going to examine how we can make that more effective and more timely," he said. 

"I think we're going to learn from the mistakes that we've made there," he said. 
SUB is made up of an execu­tive council and 10 commis­sioners, who are responsible for programming, said McCarthey. Each commissioner has a committee of five to 50 people 
Students recognized for their outstanding service, ND spirit 

BY CARRIE KINSELLA 
News Writer 
Selected students were rec­ognized for outstanding campus participation and service by the Student Activities Office, the Office of Student Affairs, and the HPC in an awards banquet Wednesday. 

Recipients of the 1992 Student Activities Awards were: Laura Brown. Dave Cathcart. John Coffey, Steve Fuller, Christophe Kougniazonde, Trey Lafkas, John Machado, Jennifer McRedmond, Laura Mollach, Mari Okuda, Katie Pamenter, John Plumb, Marianne Ravry, Missie Sherman, and Kelley Tuthill. 
These students were noted for their ability to "exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in social, recreational, residential, service, and religious activi­ties." 
This year's Junior Class President, Dave Cathcart, said he appreciated the award and was disappointed that "everyone who helped me could not receive an award." 
Four annual Irish Clover awards were given in recogni­tion of service to the student body. Father Warner, director of Campus Ministry and co­chair of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity, received an Irish Clover award. 
Chuck Lennon, executive di­rector of the Alumni Association, was also recog­nized for his work in unifying the student and alumni mem­bers of the Notre Dame family. Student award-winners were Katie Pamenter, chair of the Sesquicentennial committee; and Karen Stohr, student gov­ernment chief of staff. 

The office of Student Affairs also gave out five awards in recognition of achicwement. Katie Pamenter received the Collins award. The Gardner award went to Cris Toffolo. Vice-President Patricia O'Hara also recognized Karen Stohr, Joe Blanco, and Dave Florenzo as outstanding contributors in student activities. 
Father Miscamble was honored with the Frank O'Malley award. 
Pro-lifer Scheidler: 
...

''The truth hurts'' 
own bodies." 
"Do I look like my mom? was never her body. I thank her for the use of her body, but I was never her body," said Scheidler. "The truth is, that the aborting mother is not an abortionist, not even a killer, but a murderer," he said. 
According to Scheidler, most women, after having an abor­tion, experience great desola­tion in coming to the realization that they "killed their children." They realize that although their mothers gave them life, they put their own futures above the lives of their children, and decided not to parent, not to love, Scheidler said. 
He added that pro-lifers have "the truth," "love life," and "have hope," and they propose something that is inherently good. Simply on this basis, and not on the fact that Catholic belief happens to coincide with the pro-life movement, do pro­lifers uphold our beliefs, he said. 
It is untrue that the Catholic view predominates the pro-life movement, although this is a common misconception, Scheidler said. Some of the most committed and educated pro-lifers are atheists, he said, some of whom have worked be­side Scheidler. Pro-lifers prin­cipally heed one central teach 
see LIFE/page 6 

working with them, so programming is different in each committee, he said. 
Many committees send out surveys to receive student in­put, and the larger committees often have a broad enough base to generate many ideas, he added. 
Junior Matt Bomberger, 92-93 director of programming, said SUB's greatest concern is to make programming more ef­ficient. Since SUB's allocation from the University has been cut the past three years, and the cost of programming has increased, Bomberger said he plans to provide better pro­gramming through increased efficiency and coordination of events with other campus groups such as student gov­ernment, the office of minority affairs, academic departments and clubs. 
Bomberger also plans to in­crease SUB's role in assisting other organizations with pro-
see SUB I page 4 

Ridgley in court for public intoxication 
BY PANCHO LOZANO 
News Writer . ,r 

NQtte Dame student Troy Ridgley appeared in court for a disposition trial Tuesday on misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest and public intoxication. 
Ridgley, a former defensive lineman for the Notre Dame football t pleaded guilty to the cha of resisting arrest. His sentence included 180 days of non-reporting probation, attending the counseling group Dargis for an unstated period of time. and court costs. 
His sentence 6:t' 30 days in county jail was suspended. The charges of public intoxicationwere dismissed. 
The charges stemmed from a January 22, incident which m:curred at Stude's Lounge, 2206 Mishawaka Ave. in 
·South Bend, in which Ridgley refused to leave the kitchen of the club and resisted arrest when approached hy four police officers, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
Ridgll'!y's disposition hearing was originally set fot last Tuesday, but was suspended when Ridgley's attorney, Charles Asher, asked for a continuance of the case. 
Neither Ridgley nor Asher wished to comment on the outcome of the case. Ridgley has been arrested twice in 1991 before the January 22 incident, but charges in both cases were dropped. 

page2 "'Ptitla:y; AprillO, 1992 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

FacultY, vote of 
no confidence 
is appropriate 
It would be a drastic step if the Faculty Senate approved the vote of no confidence in University President Father Edward Malloy. But sometimes drastic steps are necessary. 


Professor David JOHN ROCK 
O'Conner has told Managing 
reporters that he has Editor 
found most of the faculty ------­
in support of the vote, especially in light of 
Malloy's veto of the proposed restructuring of 
the Academic Council. 

They have ever right to be angry. 
All the faculty wants is a little say about things, and they should get it. Malloy is ob­viously doing what he feels is in the best in­terest in the University, but as with other recent administrative decisions (i.e. the con­version of Pangborn, silence on the Father James Burtchaell scandal) it is being called into question. ' 
Not allowing faculty equitable representa­tion in academic governance is a blatant show of disrespect and professional courtesy. It is, unfortunately, following a nationwide trend of administrators ignoring teachers at all levels of education. 
At least now, after three years, the admin­istration seems to be ready to sit down and discuss governance with the faculty. What cannot happen, though, is for the adminis­tration to stall the vote, hoping for the faculty support to taper off with the end of the academic year. This issue that cannot be stonewalled any longer. 
If the University has any desire to maintain its reputation for quality undergraduate education, it must let those fulfilling the mission at the student's level have their due representation. 
If the University wants to maintain its Catholic character, it cannot do this solely by having a Holy Cross priest at the helm-it is just too big. lt needs a competent, Christian faculty who desire to challenge their students. 
The administration and faculty have to work together to maintain the university's credibility, academic standards, and Catholic character. 
One of the unique aspects of Notre Dame is that students and faculty often worship together. It is not uncommon to see professors and their families at the Basilica of Sacred Heart on Sundays. Some of our teachers even say Mass at Sacred Heart. 
Father Edward Sorin started this place in a little brick shack 150 years ago to educate Hoosiers. Today we are the premier Catholic school in the world. If Malloy truly wants to maintain the educational mission of Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross in the midst of our transition to a national Catholic research institution, he must address the faculty's grievances. 
No one wants to see the faculty declare no confidence in Malloy or to cast a shadow of animosity over the Dome, but such a move is in the best interest of the University if the faculty does not receive the respect, academic authority and input that their role demands. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Friday's Staff: 
Production  Lab tech  
Peggy Crooks  Macy Heuckel  
Bryan Nowicki  Systems  
Sports  Harry Zembillas  
Rene Ferran  Etc.  
News  Chrissy Prask  

Sandy Wiegand Pat Moran Bevin Kovalik Meredith McCullough 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

PriJSSure 
H L 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
TODAY AT AGCANCE 
Mostly cloudy today with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms and high 60. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  41  24  
Athens  70  52  
Bogota  70  54  
Boston  63  37  
Cairo  82  57  
Chicago  63  39  
Cleveland  55  43  
Dallas  83  62  
Denver  73  38  
Detroit  55  42  
Green Bay  54  32  
Indianapolis  68  47  
Jerusalem  68  54  
Lewisburg  64  44  
London  63  41  
Lovington  79  61  
Madrid  61  39  
Minneapolis  55  30  
Moscow  43  32  
Nashville  77  51  
New York  64  45  
Paris  63  39  
Philadelphia  65  46  
Rome  63  50  
San Francisco  67  54  
South Bend  60  42  
Tokyo 75 52 Washington, D.C. 69 45


INDIANA 

Local United Way reviews reports 
• INDIANA-The St. Joseph County chapter of United Way is reviewing the allegations against United Way of America President William Aramony and plans to release its findings April 15, according to Mark Wagner, chapter president. "This is a serious matter and we are giving it serious consideration," Wagner said. "We believe some positive action has taken place at United Way of America." The chapter will not make any changes until "we have reviewed the full report and are satisfied that sufficient change is taking place," Wagner said. 
CAMPUS 

ND senior awarded fellowship 
• NOTA~ DAME -Notre Dame senior Larissa Wenning from Lexmgton, Kentucky, has been awarded a National Science Foundation graduate fellowship to pursue her studies in chemical engineering. Wenning was one of 40 students nationally to win the award. The fellowship will pay full tuition, as well as a $12,000 stipend a year over a three year period. Since last fall, Wenning has worked with graduate student Jean Pascal Lebrat on a research project investigating the mechanisms by which nickel 
OF INTEREST 
•An 
Tostal '92 Fast Bike Race registration is taking place today and Monday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in LaFortune. Races begin April 23 at 4:30 p.m. at Saint Mary's College. Helmets are required to race. Call Karl Etzel at 283-2257 for more information. 

•A 
storytelling session for children will be offered Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/Apri19 VOLUME IN SHARES 
,~~~DEX +

231.35 million '1T 2.99 S&P COMPOSITE 409.56 .. .2.45 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,224.96 11-43.61 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLDit $1.60 to $339.50/oz 
SILVER... 2.5¢ to $4.113/oz 


and aluminum particles react to produce nickel alw_ni~des. Wenn.ing is a!so the top ranked graduating semor m her class m chemical engineering. 
Student magazine receives awards 
• NOTRE DAt;,E -Notre Dame's student engineering magazine, Technical Review, was honored at the annual Engineering College Magazines Associated conference. The magazine received first place for the best cover of a single issue, third place for the best covers for all issues and the best artJphotography in a single issue. It wa~ ~lso awarded honorable mention for the best single Issue, best artJphotography for all issues, and the best article for general science background. 
Hall sponsors annual carnival 
• NOIRE DAME-Saint Edward's Hall will sponsor its fourth annual Charity Carnival Sunday from noon to 6 
p.m. on Holy Cross Hill. The carnival will feature games such as darts, cakewalk, moon-walk and a dunk tank featuring Notre Dame celebrities. Campus bands, clowns and jugglers will perform at the carnival throughout the day. Admission to the carnival is free, and all proceeds from games will be donated to charity. 
liThe Fisher Regatta Picnic is being held Sunday from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Saint Mary's Lake. 
•vespers concerts will be held at the Basilica of the Sa~red. Heart Sunday at 7:15 p.m. and 8 p.m. The Umversity of St. Thomas Liturgical Choir will perform. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1945: American soldiers liberated the notorious Nazi concentration camp Buchenwald. 

• 
In 1963: The nuclear-powered submarine USS Thresher failed to surface off Cape Cod, Mass., in a disaster that claimed some 129 lives. 

• 
In 1974: Golda Meir announced her resignation as prime minister of Israel. 

• 
In 1979: 42 people were killed, more than 1,700 injured when a tornado struck Wichita Fall, Texas, destroying 3,000 homes and causing $400 million in damage. 

• 
In 1991: An estimated 200,000 workers in Byelorussia staged a work stoppage in the republic's capital of Minsk. 




The Observer 

'Friday~ Aprif 1'0;'"1'~2 page3 
Conservative Party representatives headed for majority in British House of Commons 
LONDON (AP) -Prime Minister John Major, who waged a come-from-behind soapbox campaign to extend 13 years of Conservative Party government, appeared headed for a nerve-wracking election victory Thursday. 
With results in hand from 602 seats out of the 651 contested, the British Broadcasting Corp. computer analysis predicted the Conservatives were assured of an overall majority in the House of Commons, winning 334 seats. Labor was projected to win 273 and the Liberal Democrats 
19.332 seats. 

Projections by Independent Television News gave the Conservatives 333 seats, Labor 271 and Liberal Democrats 21, with the rest going to smaller parties. 
"The evening is not yet con­cluded, but I believe when it is concluded, it will have a satis­factory result. the right gov­ernment, and we can push ahead with the recovery for Britain that all of us wish to see," Major said. He won his own district by 36,000 votes, the biggest victory of the night. 
''I'm very pleased. Everything we have done in the last 13 years will now be conserved and built on in the future," former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher exulted. No party had won four straight elections in Britain this century. 
With actual tallies in from 596 districts, Conservatives had won 315 seats, compared to Labor's 268 and 14 for the Liberal Democrats. 
"The battle is not yet over," insisted Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock. 
But he sounded resigned to settling back into the Wales district seat to which he was easily re-elected. 
"I take this opportunity of dedicating myself to the service of my constituency and in any capacity whatever to the people of my country," Kinnock said. 
The Conservatives apparently triumphed over a lingering re­cession and unemployment of 
9.4 percent, a disastrous exper­iment in local taxation in Mrs. Thatcher's last term and a shaky start to the campaign. 

Labor, encouraged by a small but consistent edge in opinion polls, ran a cautious, front­runner's campaign, while Major took to the streets in last days of the campaign with a soapbox and bullhorn. 
Conservatives were even holding on to seats in Scotland, where the pro-independence Scottish National Party had been hoping for big gains. 
The BBC projected that the Conservatives would win 43 percent of the popular vote, surprisingly matching their share in three landslide victo­ries under Thatcher, 
"This is very, very bad news for Labor," said BBC analyst Peter Kellner. "It is also rotten news for the pollsters . . . they blew it." 
The combined verdict of the last opinion polls this week showed Labor about a point ahead, though the difference was well within the margin of error. 
Labor did cut into the Tories' 369-seat majority in the old parliament. 

The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
HALFOFTHEPEOPLE WHOREADTHISAD WON1GETINm LAWSCHOOL. 
Here's a surprise test of your math skills.  9ccess to our computers and study programs.  
Divide 95,000 law school applicants into  Plus, VI€ offer the two-day lSAT Intensive·Study  
44,000 openings. Now you realize why it's  Clinic the last week before the exam.  
so  important to  take the Ron kin  lSAT  Reserve your place in our lSAT course by  
Preparation course.  May 15 and we'll include the $225 clinic for  
First you'll take a free diagnostic test. Then  free. Call Ronkin today and find out how the  
we'll work with you in  beffer half gets into the  

:~~~-~::.~~:~~zrr: RONKIN.GETIN: ~:c:~hool of their 
LSAT•GMAT•GRE•MCAT•TEST PREPARATION AND APPLICATION ASSISTANCE. 
THE OFFER: RESERVE BY MAY 15. SAVE $225. 
South Bend 273-1866 

lease contact ]~hnellle at 239-7471. 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant 
Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 
Carry out or Dine in 

200-' off pizza with thla ad. 52303 Emmons Rd. 
OPEN TUES-SUN 
Georgetown Shopping Center llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
SESQUICENTENNIAL YEAR STUDENT COMMITTEE 
Thursday. April 9 Ramada Inn (U.S. 31) 8:30 PM to 1 AM 
No cover charge 
Friday. April 10 Alumni Senior Club 
10PMto2AM 
No cover for members 
(co-sponsored by Alumni Senior Club) 
Must be 21 to enter! 
A Sesqutcentenntal Year Student Charity Event 
Donations will be accepted for the Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarships 

Noriega guilty of drug charges 
MIAMI (AP) -Manuel Noriega, the dictator who de­fied a superpower. was con­victed of eight of 10 drug and racketeering charges Thursday, two years after the long arm of America plucked him from Panama in a bloody invasion. 
The ousted Panamanian leader's conviction included the key counts of racketeering and racketeering conspiracy. The eight counts carry a possible maximum sentence of 120, years. Sentencing was set for July 10. 
"We did one heck of a job. We're proud of what we did," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Sullivan. 
U.S. Attorney James McAdams said as soon as Noriega is sentenced, he will be taken to Tampa for a trial on marijuana smuggling charges. If convicted in that case, he could be sentenced to 35 years in prison. 
The defense said it would ap­peal the verdict. 
President Bush called the conviction "a major victory against the drug lords." 
"I hope it sends a lesson to drug lords here and around the world they will pay a price if they continue to poison the lives of our kids in this country or anywhere else," Bush said at a Washington meeting with Nicaraguan President Violetta Chamorro. 
Defense attorney Frank Rubino was bitter, and said the appeal would be based on is­sues including Noriega's pris­oner-or-war status and the in­vasion. 
"The United States govern­ment in its self-appointed role as world policeman ... saw fit to invade a foreign country and seize its leader," he said. 

,..._________________ 
----~----~--------------~--------~-~---~­
page 4 The Observer Friday, April 10, 1992 
Blood banks fielding more calls after Ashe says he has AIDS 
(AP)-A day after Arthur Ashe announe~~d he got AIDS from a blood transfusion, blood banks fielded calls from worried transfusion recipients. 
Hut orricials say the blood supply has become markedly safer against AIDS since March 1985, when screening for the virus began. 
One woman worried by Ashe's announcement had gotten a blood transfusion after a hys­terectomy about a year ago. 
Even though she had tested negative for the AIDS virus three months and again six months after the transfusion, she called the American Red Cross Blood Services-Northeast Region in Dedham, Mass., Thursday morning. 
"What I told her was, for her own peace of mind, have an­other test, and if that's negative, then just to figure she is ... free of the AIDS virus," said Blanche Lansky, the blood center's director of community services. 
It was one of 10 calls to the center by early Thursday after­noon. 
The National AIDS Hotline received 117.458 calls after Ashe's announcement Wednesday, compared with about 55,000 calls the day be­fore. said Margaret Webb, se­nior public relations officer with the American Social Health Association, the company that operates the hotline. 
She said it was the hotline's third-busiest day ever, behind only March 30, the day after ABC televised a movie about a young woman who contracted AIDS from a one-night stand, and Nov. 8, the day after former basketball star Magic Johnson announced he was infected with the AIDS virus. 
"Clearly it has renewed the fear of getting AIDS from a transfusion," said Bill Teague, president of the Gulf Coast Regional Blood Center in Houston, which had received 15 to 20 calls by mid-morning. 
Ashe, a tennis star of the '60s and '70s, said he believed he was infected by blood trans­fused after heart-bypass surgery in 1983. The date is significant, blood bank officials stress, because that was before banks began screening blood for the AIDS virus in 1985. 

Students at high risk for AIDS 
ATLANTA (AP) -American high school students are playing "Hussian roulette" with AIDS, with the typical student having sex by age 16 and one in five having four or more partners. researchers said Thursday. 
The national Centers for Disease Control reported that 19 percent of U.S. high school students have had four or more sex partners; the percentage jumps to 29 percent by senior year. 
Male students were more likely than females to be that sexually active, 27 percent to 12 percent. For black males. 
the figure was 60 percent, compared with 21 percent for white males. 
The nationwide survey, conducted in 1990, shows "a substantial proportion of students engage in behaviors that place them at risk for HIV infection," the CDC concluded. 
"The best way to explain it to kids is that it's like playing Russian roulette and not knowing how many live bullets are in the chambers," said Dr. Lloyd Kolbe, director of the CDC's Division of Adolescent and School Health. "If you pull the trigger once, it can cause you to become infected." 
The CDC's 1990 survey of high school health habits was its first, but the findings are dramatically higher than in similar previous studies of sexual behavior. For instance, a 1970 survey of females ages 15-19 found 29 percent had ever had sex; by 1990, it was 54 percent, Kolbe said. 
It's too early to tell if teen­age sexual behavior has changed since November, when basketball superstar Magic Johnson announced he has the AIDS virus, Kolbe said. Such studies are under way, but incomplete. 

Applications for Freshman Orientation Executive Committee 1992 Available now in Student Government Office 
Due Today Friday, April1 0 5pm 
Questions? Call Chris X3445 
SUB 
continued from page 1 

gramming, he said. He empha­sized the board's willingness to help anyone who needs assis­tance, and added, "hopefully, we'll be able to create SUB not only as a source of program­ming but as a center of pro­gramming." 
McCarthey's goals for next year include bringing a speaker series to campus focusing on intellectual life . One aspect of this series in which he is par­ticularly interested is bringing speakers who represent "the dichotomy of being Catholic in 
public life." He referred to Pennsylvania Governor Bob Casey's lecture on campus last week as an example of such a speaker. 
Although he is only in the process of finding spllakers, McCarthey would like to see people like New York Governor Mario Cuomo and former Speaker of the !louse Tip O'Neill. "I feel confident we have the ideas and abilities to put this kind of series together," he said. 
McCarthey has no previous llxperience with SUB. but he has been parliamentarian for the Student Senate this year and an active participant in several political campaigns. 
a 

Happy 21st 
Birthday Stacey! 

Witb.•••••••lo'\Z.e•••·•·•··•••••·•· 
aii~!lli~~:,.(:: 
The•JN.otre 
N~;a;··· 

The Senior Class is Holding some Chicago Bulls Tickets for the April 13th game vs. Atlanta Hawks 
$20 I ticket (includes mandatory bus transportation) 
If interested, come to the Senior Class Office between 3-5 P.M. 
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE 
IT'S BACK 
KARAOKE 
at the Alumni -Senior Club 

Friday, April 10 
Attention: Faculty, Professors and Graduate Students 
Live in Luxury in the heart of Downtown South Bend 
Ask about our Spring Special!! 2 bedroom apartments starting at $57 5 .. only a few left ••• 
minutes to ~~ ~ ~
Everywhl re. 
• 
River Views 


• 
Swimming Pool 

• 
Tennis Court 

• 
Washers and Dryers


J. 
287-2684
Showing Models Dally 
30T East laSaflo AvD.

Mon. through Fri. 9·6 THEPOL\TE 
Tf£ NEW DOWNTOWN
Sat. 10·5 
South Bund
Sun. Closed 

The Point At Saint Joseph­Because vou deserve the best!! 

The Observer 

Friday, April 10, 1992 page 5 
Buchanan to visit Purdue 
INDIANAPOLIS (APJ .. Republican presidential candidate Patrick Buchanan will visit Purdue University this month. 
Purdue officials said Wednesday that Buchanan had been invited to the West Lafayette campus by the university chapter of College Republicans. r 
Buchanan's address at 6. 
p.m. April 20 in Fowler Hall of Purdue's Stewart Center will be open to the public. 
Buchanan is challenging President Bush for,.·thl!.. Republican nomination:·· Bush, meanwhile, hasac+. cepted an invitation to de-' liver the commencement ad­dress at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend on May 17. . , ...•.w•?·•~"·:·,····· 
In addition, Democratic candidate Bill Clinton will speak Saturday atgthe Indiana Democratic Party's annual Jefferson-Jackson Day fund-raising dinner. 
Deliuery It Carry out Call 232-2499 

New York Times columnist: No reason to fear learning about different religons 
By JEANNE DE VITA News Writer 
" 'If you know one religion, you don't know any,' " said Ari Goldman, religion correspon­dent for the New York Times, yesterday quoting one of his teachers at Harvard Divinity School. 
In his lecture, "All the Religion That's Fit to Print," Goldman said, "I want to talk to you about listening, listening to others while hearing the sound of your own heartbeat." 
After ten years as a general reporter for the New York Times, Goldman became one of the paper's religion correspon­dents. He discussed his "inner voice," which he said, "taught me with a passion to listen to the Jewish voice within me." 
"Interest stops at the door of our own faith," Goldman said. "You begin to see your own faith more clearly when you see others-you don't know your own until you see others," he· said. 
"I had to know others (faith)," Goldman said, explaining his decision to attend Harvard Divinity School at age 35, after being offered the position of religion correspondent. 


Goldman's studies and strug­gles at Harvard from orienta­tion to graduation, were traced in his recent book, "The Search for God at Harvard." 
"Twentieth century Americans are afraid of the in­terfaith encounter, " said Goldman. "I am here to say there is nothing to be afraid of." 
Goldman discussed his early fears that by associating with other faiths, by learning about them, he would somehow be brought into those other faiths. But Goldman said he still "holds dear" both his profession as a journalist and his faith as an orthodox Jew and that "when they come into conflict, I have difficult choices to make." 
Responses to Goldman's book helped him to come to a new "richness in (his) under­standing" of his identity both as a journalist and as a Jew. 
According to Goldman, his exposure to other faiths led him to an amazing dialogue. 
"Spirituality can express itself through many paths,'' he said, explaining the serenity he has experienced with Quakers, and the excitement experienced with Baptists. • 
Goldman also discussed the difficulty journalists have in covering non-institutional reli­gious stories, and explained how he, as one of two full time religion correspondents for the Times tries to find out how re­ligion moves people and influ­ences them. 
According to Goldman, sexual issues such as contraceptives, homosexuality, and abortion, as well as women's issues and black issues, confront struggles that the general, sophisticated reader can "wake up to." 
"Religion is the way the New York Times gets sex on the front page," Goldman said, ex­plaining that he quoted an in­dustry catchphrase. 
"Religion is hot, " said Goldman, since 90 percent of Americans identify with, although not necessarily affili­ate with, a religious denomina-
SUMMER STORAGE! 
AS lOW AS $5.78 PER MONTH! 
MASTER MINI WAREHOUSE 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Accent Columnist 
Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample column to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. April15 
To apply, please contact fahnellle at 239-7471. 
Dine-In at  
Downtown  
282-2543  
or  
Roseland  
277-2121  
CHOICE DEAL  
1 I I I  '1\vo Medium 1-'fupping Pizzas  

I SI099 
1
I 
1 
1 
I 
I I 

tion. "God's back, and back with a capital H," said Goldman, referring to the Times' stylistic practice of capi­talizing letters in pronouns re­ferring to God or Jesus. Goldman also said that over 200 daily papers currently em­ploy full time religious writers. 
Goldman writes a Saturday column and regular religious pieces with New York angles for the New York Times. The lecture was sponsored by Notre Dame's department of theology as one of the Liss Lectures in Judaica. 
Right to life planning local protest 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH Assistant News Editor 
As part of their Right to Ufe Week, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's chapter of Right to Life has planned a peaceful demonstration at the Women's Pavilion on Ironwood Circle, according to Elsa Scheidler, co-president of the group. · 
Members of the organization will attempt to "dissuade" women from seeking abortions and "educate" them about alternatives, said Scheidler. 
She said they hope to "educate women as to the development of the fetus/embryo/unborn child, so they really know the facts before they choose to kill it. We want to take the blinder-s off." 
Today's demonstration is not to be confused with a "rescue" operation, according to Scheidler. 
Opposed to a "rescue," which is a well-planned protest with intent to block doors of the 
l ,facility, preventing all abortions from occurring that day, Scheidler describes her group's efforts as "a simple demonstration." 
They will have picket signs, but will not engage in illegal 
lactivity or risk severe consequences, she said. 
Since legally the protestors cannot set foot on the Women's Pavilion property, all 1
,

persuasion must take place on 
the sidelines. 
"Because of the way the j Women's Pavilion is situated, women can practically drive right up to the door," said Sheidler. "We are at least 20 yards away-Unless we raise our voices we cannot be heard." 
This distance makes contact 

with those entering the facility 
difficult, according to Scheidler. 
Rather than rely on interaction, 
Scheidler said, "nine times out 
of ten we simply pray." 
According to Scheidler, most 

of those entering the clinic will 
not stop to talk to the 
protestors. They "tend to rush 
in," she said. 
But of the few who do stop, 

Scheidler said that most of 
them are convinced by the 
arguments against abortion 
and seek alternatives at 
Pregnancy Life Line, a 
nonprofit organization next 
door to the clinic. 
"We usually don't get to see 

results of what we do," said 
Scheidler. ''We don't always 
know the impact we have." 
The demonstration is an 

effort to raise awareness of the 
abortion issue during Right to 
Life Week, Scheidler said, but 
it is not a one time event. 
EXCELLENT VALUE! 

I Buy A I 
I Large I

I For I
I Medium I 
I Charge I I Slagle Plua Orden 0u1y I I Carryout/Delluery I 
I ~May 31, 1992 1
I II I I 
.I
I GY I
I I 

I Please mention coupon wllen ordering. One coupon 11per customer per visit at participating Pizza Hut 1I restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH I 
ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area.

Lii J 
I carryout/Delluery
I f::!1!! May 31, 1992
TrytheHotTaste 
I -@I
ofPizzaHuf1bnight. I ­
1Please mention coupon wnen ordering. One coupon 1 I per customer per visit at participating Pizza Hut 1 restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH II ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area. 1
• ..------------· I 
The Observer 
page 6 
Pres. Bush 
speaks to 
editors 

WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush today defendnd • his decision to stop the Persian Gulf War without the ouster of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, saying, "I have abso­
I I lutely no regrets about that part of it at all." "We did the honorable thing," Bush said, adding that his decision to halt the fighting was agreed to by Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, the allied com­mander. Bush said that in hindsight, "I'd certainly rethink our posi­tion" of providing aid to Iraq bnforn its invasion of neighbor­ing Kuwait. Jlowever, he said it was unclear whether withhold­ing aid would have prevented Saddam from taking over Kuwait. Bush made his comments in a question-and-answer session after a speech to the American Society of Newspaper Editors. 

Dialing that magical numb~rObserver/Kristina Roderick 
In his prepared remarks, Bush urged Congress to pass an aid package for Russia by the 
Rita Hajjar, a freshman from Pasquerilla East, selects her classes time Boris Yeltsin visits in June. 
for next fall from her telephone by using the DART system. Freshman began registering by DART for the first time yesterday. 
Life 
continued from page 1 

ing, he said, "Thou shalt not kill." 
"There's no possible way to deny that a human life is taken in abortion, for it has been medically proven. To die before you live outside the womb is a terrible tragedy," Scheidler said. 
"You may think you are Pro­abortion. Think again. When you were the baby in the womb, would you rather have your mother give you life and protection as the case is. or rather have her disembowel. scald, or dismember you?" he said. 
"Hemember that Jesus once said, 'What you do to the least of my brethren, you do unto me,"' Scheidler said. 

SLAVERY 
Dred Scott 1857 7-2 Decision Black Non-person Property of Owner 
Choose To Buy-Sell-Kill Abolitionists Should Not Impose Morality on Slaveowners 
Slavery Is Legal 
Friday, April 10, 1992 

House trying to limit campaign spending 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House passed 259-165 on Thursday a virtually doomed Democratic bill to limit cam­paign spending and curb the special-interest contributions that many members blame for the public's cynicism toward Congress. 
The measure, a consolidation of earlier House and Senate bills which President Bush threatened to veto, also calls for some public financing of congressional campaigns, but fails to specify how that rev­enue would be collected. 
The largely party-line vote, while a hefty 61 percent mar­gin, was short of the two-thirds necessary to override the presi­dent. 
Senate Democratic Leader George Mitchell said the Senate would act on the new package the last week of April, when Congress returps from a two­week Easter recess. 
The legislation would limit how much candidates for Congress can spend and cut the amounts they now raise from wealthy donors and the political action committees of unions, corporations and other special interests. 
"Any time we vote, we're ac­cused of doing so because of political contributions ... a sleazy perception baggage that we're all carrying around here," said Hep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M. 
"It's just not worth the has­sle," he said. mentioning that one voter who accused him of being in the hip pocket of envi­ronmentalists because he ac­cepted a $500 campaign check from the Sierra Club's PAC. 
Most of the special interest money would bn replaced with public financing from a yet-to­be-determined source, since Democrats lacked the votes to specifically assign taxpayer funds for it. Qualifying Senate candidates could get between $300,000 and $1.4 million in public funds and House candi­dates would get up to $200,000 under the formula envisioned by the measure. 
Bush has repeatedly said he would veto any campaign fi­nance bill that including spend­ing caps set up different rules for the House and Senate. 

ABORTION 
Roe vs. Wade 1973 7-2 Decision Unborn Non-person Property of Mother 
Choose to Keep or Kill Pro-lifers Should Not Impose Morality on Mother 
Abortion is Legal 
-Roe vs. Wade and Doe vs. Bolton allow abortion at~ time during pregnancy. Over 77,000 abortions are performed after the 16th week yearly in the U.S. 
-Conception: all genetic information of physical attributes necessary for the 
development of a unique individual is present. 3 weeks: heart begins to beat. 6 weeks: all internal organs are present. 8 weeks: bra~n waves can be detected. 3 months: child wakes and sleeps. 
4 months: child is sensitive to light and touch. Baby Marcus Richardson, born 1-1-72 at Cincinnati General Hospital exactly 20 weeks ( 4 and 1/2 months) has lived a normal childhood. 7 months: child has developed all four senses. 
-1.6 million abortions are performed in the U.S. each year, nearly 1 out of 3 pregnancies. 
-Rape and incest account for less than 1°/o of all abortions in the U.S. 
-In the U.S.,there are over 3,000 women care centers and maternity homes made up of pro-life volunteers that provide medical care, legal or spiritual or financial help, a job, a home, counseling, etc . 
"~_facts you sfiouU now about abortion" sponsorea by 'J{V/S%C 'l(jgfit 'Io Life cfiapter. 'Ifie 'Rjgfit 'Io Life movement is dedicated to respecting fife from beginning to end. 'We strong{y befieve in equa{ rigfits for men ana women, born and unborn. 
The Observer 

Frida~ April 10,1992 page 7 
Fed lowers interest rate on loans between banks 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The lieved the Fed had cut the funds Federal Reserve on Thursday rate by a quarter-point, from 4 unexpectedly lowered a key in­percent to 3. 7 5 percent. It terest rate in a move apparently marked the 16th time the Fed aimed at calming jittery has lowered the funds rate financial markets and buying since it stood at 8 percent when recovery insurance for the U.S. the recession began in July economy. 1990. 
The Fed added reserves to the Wall Street approved of the nation's money supply shortly rate cut. The Dow Jones indus­before noon in a fashion that trial average, which had fallen economists said clearly sig­94 points in the previous two nalled a cut in its target for the sessions, rallied on word of the federal funds rate, the interest Fed's move, climbing 43.61 that banks charge each other. points for the day. 
Most economists said they be-The move came shortly after 

Happy Birthday 
MATT 
Lovcz. 

"Pals Forever" Da Boys in Cavanaugh 
..__________________________ 
• • • • • • • • • • • 15 ••••••••••••• 
MONDAY Al\D rnrESil\Y 

• TRENT 
•

•• • 
ARTERBERRY 
•
•

• 8:10p.m. .. • • Washington Hall • • 
Tirkets: $8--Notre Dame and Saint ~bry·s Srudcnts $!()...General Admission $S-Children 02 and under) Group rates available. LaFortune Center Box Office 

~lime Trent Arterberry moves through a series of contemporary scenes with a unique athletic grace and presence. His show ranges from hilarious descriptive mime to interpretive dance and includes imprtl\'isational sketches with audience participation. Arterberry began srudying mime in the '70s with such masters as Marcel Marceau. 
the Labor Department reported the American Society of said David Wyss, an economist that wholesale prices edged up Newspaper Editors. with DRI-McGraw Hill. "We had only 0.2 percent in March, indi­Economists, caught off guard a couple of good months in cating that inflationary pres­by the Fed's surprise move, 1991 but then we didn't get any sures remain in check. gave a variety of reasons for the employment pickup, the money 
President Bush, who has seen action, including concerns over supply started softening and the his handling of the economy be­weakness in the Japanese and economy stalled out." come a major issue in the pres­American stock markets and The Fed's move Thursday was idential campaign, said the worries that this year's fledging taken against a backdrop of Fed's decision was a "good economic recovery might these economic developments: thing" and had been well re­collapse, as a similar rebound •The 0.2 percent gain in the ceived by fmancial markets. did in 1991. Labor Department's Producer 
"I hope that this will guaran­"The Fed is worried that eco­Price Index matched the small tee that this fledgling recovery nomic history might repeat it­February increase and left that we're seeing will now be a self. Events are beginning to wholesale prices rising at a rate little more robust," Bush told look an awful lot like last year," this year of just 0. 7 percent. 
Quayle defends jet use for golfing Bush wants Congressional perks to end 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The President Bush, in turn, sent In other signs of the strains in war of words over White House Congress a bill heralded as the Congress, a rising GOP star in and congressional perks esca­Accountability in Government the House, Rep. Yin Weber of lated Thursday as Vice Act. If enacted, it would force Minnesota, said he would not President Dan Quayle sought to Congress to comply with a seek re-election. Weber, who defend his use of military jets handful of laws from which it wrote 125 bad checks on the for golf trips and charged his has exempted itself, on areas House bank over 39 months, Democratic critics with trying to such as the minimum wage, cited a "pretty sour" mood in divert attention from their own employment discrimination, in­Washington. scandals. vestigation by independent Also, New York Rep. Robert 
House Democrats, meanwhile, counsels and restrictions on po­Mrazek, a Democrat, aban­asserted the White House was litical activities of employees. doned his Senate campaign, circumventing personnel The developments were the saying the check furor kept him guidelines by hiring workers for latest of increasingly vitriolic from addressing "real" issues. phony job descriptions at exchanges on Capitol Hill in the The House ethics committee re­
government departments, then 
wake of the bad-check and post ported Mrazek had 920 over­detailing them to political duty office scandals in the drafts, more than any other sit­at the White House. Democratic-controlled House. ting member of Congress. 
identifying them only as unindicted co-conspirators. The indictment revealed a
Store Your Stuff ! 
significant expansion of the grand jury's investigation of the 
(for the summer) 
House Post Office -from an embezzlement probe to one

involving a broad drug conspir­acy. 
Mismanagement at the post office has caused intense em­barrassment to lawmakers and has led to a House Administration Committee investigation of the facility -in addition to the criminal probe by U.S. Attorney Jay Stephens. 
Three former clerks previously pleaded guilty to charges of embezzling more than $35,000 in money and stamps. 
~~M. 

And the indictment came just a week after the House ethics committee released names of 22 abusers of checking accounts at the chamber's bank. A list of more than 300 bad check writers will be released soon, possibly next week. 
Thursday's indictment added allegations against Magruder. 

House P.O. TN c.IM.t Serving involved in 
PANCAKE ND/SMC 

drug sales
Students
HOUSE 

for 27 years WASHINGTON (AP) -A federal grand jury alleged on Thursday that there had been a broad drug conspiracy at the House 
~ 

Try our new rCOLOMALPANCAKEHOUsE, 
Post Office as it filed new OVEN BAKED 4" I APPLE PANCAKE I charges against a former em­
ployee . EGG JUMBO I SAVE s1.00 ·I The indictment said a stamp clerk, who previously was
VEGETARIAN ExP.&-30-92 offJ 
indicted on a charge of embezzlement, sold crack

OMELETTE l=c~o~ 7AN~K~o~e1 
cocaine and other drugs to 

ftlle4 with Onion, Green I ANY CREPES 1 fellow workers. Peppers, Mushrooms, Dic:edl SAVE $1.00 1 Some of those employees then 
assisted the clerk "inTomatoes, and Broccoli EXP. 6-30-92 off

L ___.___ J concealing monetary shortages Open 7 Days A Week: in his stamp drawer" at the time of postal audits, the grand 
At 6:30A.M. 
jury charged. 

u.s. 31Mel'dll.a aoHia.ad They did so by giving stamps 
(ACI'Oel l'n.'l'bc HoUday l.aa) 2.-r.;,..7433 
to the clerk, Wendell Magruder, 

Just North Of Camous 
so he could hide the deficiencies from inspectors, the indictment said. It did not name the other employees, 

~----------------------~--.r--------------~----------~-------~~.~ 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, April 10, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ..•.•....•..•••••••••.David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ..••.........•.... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .....•..•••••Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ••••••......Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager •••••••••..••.Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ••••••••...Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..•.••............... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Morrissey, Ross deserving of awards 
Dear Editor: tempering the immature behav­Manor, and the overall ap­First, Certo and Bomberger ior of certain individuals. pearance of the dorm was im­
In recognition of anniversary, 
were denied control over the This success was most felt in proved. student body. Then, George Hall Staff, as Father Ross Moreover, Manorites enjoyed
panel to discuss ND women 
Bush was picked over Pat molded each Resident Assistant the long, quiet hours in the in his own image, thus eliminat­study lounge, strolls down toDear Editor: (and, therefore, male) leaders Buchanan as commencement ing any rational control over the Lyons Beach, and a strong fel­Everyone knows how long of Notre Dame, while ignoring speaker. Now, a greater injus­dorm. Any R.A. who deviated lowship of the Manor masses. INotre Dame has been around. the role that women have tice has occurred at the great 
from the Father's plan was began to think this was the
For the past few years, no one played. University of Notre Dame. 
swiftly and most properly put Golden Age of the Community of has failed to remind us that this I challenge this University to This past week, both back into place. This despotic Morrissey.
is the University's prove its dedication -to the ide-Morrissey Manor and its 
rule over the students was With these golden thoughts
Sesquicentennial year. Twenty als which it supposedly pro-beloved rector, Father Joe Ross, definitely needed, as we were carrying me into the presentyears ago, however, there was fessed in admitting women 20 were denied the prestigious all young of age. year, I expected the Manoranother event which had an years ago and in designating awards of Dorm and Rector of All disciplinary action would experience even greaterequally profound effect on this the 1990-91 school year the the Year. While the actual involved the handing down of improvement under the guid­University which the adminis-Year of Women, by taking ad-winners of the awards may 
Father Ross's illustrious ance of Father Ross. These
tration has all but ignored. vantage of this opportunity to have made good cases for this wisdom. Also to credit Father great expectations were fulfilled
That is, the admission of recognize the impact that victory, the judges obviously 
Ross's record, he as our great Rector grasped thewomen to Notre Dame in the women have had on and the were not presented the special 
enthusiastically pursued students last vestige of
fall of 1972. contributions that women con-evidence of excellence that conversations with the convicts, responsibility over themselves,If this doesn't seem like an tinue to make to the Notre exists within the doors of the 
though he smartly refused to the Manor Hall Council.
important issue to you, think Dame community. Manor. 
accept any rational explanation Through its puppet leaders,about how different the resi-In commemoration of this im-Entering these doors with the other than his own. Moreover, Father Ross was able to guidedential life, social atmosphere, portant anniversary, the Gender expressed purpose of expanding he successfully separated the the ideals and proposals
and educational experience Studies Colloquium has my academic horizons, I be­
bad apples from his association, presented, with his extrememust be now as compared to organized a panel discussion to came horrified as I learned that and viewed all instances of wisdom. With his pious hands, 1970, when many of our cur-be held this Sunday, April 12, at Morrissey had a rich history of immoral behavior as possible Father Ross strangled the lastrent seniors were born and no 7:00 p.m. in the Library drinking, carousing, and overall seeds of a criminal tumor that glimmer of life in the Manor. 
women attended Notre Dame. Auditorium/Lounge entitled, licentious behavior. My terror could destroy the community Now, as a Junior, I dread theAnd think about the hot issues "20 Years of Women at Notre was increased when I dis-shared by Manorites. passage of time, for I will soonwhich everyone talks about Dame: Past, Present, and covered that the supervisor of Through this autocratic rule, be forced to leave my belovednow: coed housing and pari-Future." I invite all to come this raucous dorm would be a Father Ross was able to project home and rector. Keg beer,etals. and hear the stories of women young priest. 
his glorious ideals on the indi­promiscuous women, and cableThen think about and wonder and men ranging from those Images of drunken college viduals of the dorm. These ide­TV do not prompt my leavingwhether Notre Dame could be who were here when women students stumbling around and als slowly changed the Manor the Manor for an apartmentinthe unique place it is today if it were first admitted to current disrupting my studies filled my from a devilish pit to a studious, Lafayette Square. Rather, it isweren't for the admission of students and professors. This mind, and I quickly plotted a 
moralistic palace of a that the intense belief in the
women. In spite of all this, very topic is too important to have move to a quieter dorm. 
community. This change put my ideals and sense of indepen­little attention has been paid to been ignored for so long. Indeed, my first night at the heart at ease as I realized I dence that Father Ross instilled
this event. In fact, the adminis-Jennifer Evans Manor was spent huddled in my 
could fit into the new and im­in me, as well as the rest of the tration has made an astounding Gender Studies Colloquium room as students clamored proved Manor. Manorites, will steer me down
effort glorifying the great past Aoril 6. 1992 about me, unable to speak, yet 
r---..;.;_-.;_....;;.._.....;.;.__~~---------------r still able to create a large This improvement continued the straight and narrow path. ~ ·~. amount of noise. I thought my into my sophomore year, and as And if I find myself falling to the '~--~., worst nightmares were coming more and more of the licentious temptations of life, I will be sure -_ true. Manorites moved off campus or to grab my Bible and head over While throughout my fresh­were eliminated, the Manor to the Manor for Mass with 
man year the dorm did experi­began to grow into its role of Father Joe. 
-. 
ence some nightmarish model dorm. Hallways were Jeremy Pollock 
episodes, the efforts of Father cleaned, rooms were painted, Morrissey Hall 
Ross to create an atmosphere in bathrooms were freed from April 8, 1992 a dFI 
which the students could grow layers of slime, television was -t -r and flourish succeeded in enhanceed in all sections of the 



~~~------~~~-~------~~ 
DOONESBURY 

MR. REOFl'RN~ 7HI515 UH ... HAVE" 7Y 5/MPf<JN. I'M IAJfTH YaJ llfA[} IH 7Hf8/?alltJ C'A/rllrll(ioJ. /t9APREJT'I 
IM N<JTtKACT/,Y5llR£ CI?ITICAt tcO< 
WHAT MY Tint IS ATER1AIN. 
HCI?e,BUT I'M 
PRETTY H/6HUP. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
51JR£,8UT 77-IE IMPORJ"ANT 
/INYaJAY, WaJW 
77-I!NG IS 'rtJU TllKJ3 HIM seRI­
'tWUK& 7D 8f3
01.J51,Y NOW/ }W'~ PW66e{J 
A 5TATtCO­INTO Jl':RR'I'S aNiCifXI5tlle55, 
ORaNA70R¥ 
A/JIJWIN6 OTHtR5 7D/lr:JB35 H/5 
ME5'3AGf3! 
IF YOU 5AY50. 
/ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'lhe one thing about being in love with someone is you know you're in love: You're either flying or you're about to kill yourself.' 
Kathy_ Acker 

Love, love. love, all you need is to submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
-------------------------------~----------------------------------------~--~~~--~------~~------------------------------~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, April1 0, 1992 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Editor's note: The following is the first installment of a two-part letter concerning the University governance. 
Dear Editor: 
Let me begin by commending David Kinney for reporting on the current debate regarding university governance. Students should be interested in this de­bate, for its outcome could ef­fect them in significant ways. Because he reported the views of various administrators, Kinney's articles provide an opportunity that is relatively rare here at Notre Dame. The reasons behind certain adminis­trative attitudes and policies are the faculty is a threat to the Catholic character of the uni­versity, that faculty cannot be trusted with preserving this character. In this case, I am in­clined to say that Notre Dame's efforts to be a Catholic univer­sity are already doomed. 

Notre Dame will be no more than a Catholic apartment complex for young singles that happens to occupy the same plot of ground as a secular uni­versity. For when it comes to what goes on in the classroom, to the day in day out educating of students, the faculty do have nearly absolute control. I want to be sure that the 
..•••••••••••.. point of the last paragraph is 
now in the open where it is How could anyone be sur­with the funds spent on printing It would seem, therefore, that not misunderstood, so I'll close possible to examine them. prised that the faculty are con­and mailing this brochure of the argument against greater by spelling it out. Suppose that, Before looking at more worthy cerned about governance, when reprints) faculty participation must be as Fr. Malloy said, something comments, cast your eyes upon such people are governing? However, in the final para­that any increase in the faculty's fundamental must be at issue to the splendid condescension of (Perhaps I have not been en­graphs of David Kinney's fourth role would somehow endanger justify his veto. And suppose Dean Castellino. ""As we start tirely charitable in my interpre­article a clear rationale began the Catholic character of the that, as Dr. O'Meara's remarks to develop a better faculty, this tation of the argument Dean to emerge from some of Provost University. Given my experience suggest. the Catholic character type of faculty will want a say Castellino meant to suggest. O'Meara's comments. The with the faculty, e.g.• that of the university is this funda­and should have one," he said. Perhaps he doesn't really think Catholic character of Notre faculty authored reports almost mental thing. My claim is that if But "are we a mature enough the faculty is too immature to Dame is the fundamental issue universally stress a deep the faculty is such that the University for that to happen at play a greater role in gover­that administrators take to be at commitment to maintaining the Catholic character of the uni­this point?"" nance. His view might be that stake. According to Dr. Catholic character of the uni­versity would have been threat­
Just what does Dean Castellino . so long as it is politically possi­O'Meara, "if the whole question versity, it is difficult for me to ened by including six additional mean? Where, specifically, ble for administrators to say is lent to the faculty at large, we figure out exactly what it is faculty members on the might the immaturity of the such things, the faculty is not fit have a lot of evolution to go about the faculty that makes Academic Council, then Notre University lie, if it is of such a to play a greater role. I would through before we are ready to ' them such a potent threat. Dame cannot now be a Catholic nature to disqualify the faculty sadly admit that he might be on claim that we (the faculty) have What could it possibly be that university. from a greater role in University to something if this is his a special responsibility. An im­makes the faculty so dangerous In saying this, I am assuming governance? thought.) print has not been made ... that that, even w}len the president that 'Catholic university' does 
The answer couldn't be more Other reported remarks by would enable us to successfully and fellows of the university not mean Catholic something or clear -Dean Castellino thinks administrators deserve serious undertake this responsibility." have ultimate authority, they other and secular university, the faculty is too immature! One consideration, but space only "If you took faculty that were cannot be granted a greater but a certain specific kind of is reminded of John Stuart Mill's permits me examine one line of totally prepared by secular uni­role in governance? Surely it university. And I say that Notre unfortunate remark that "those argument here. In David versities, do they have it in their cannot be that many of the fac­Dame could not now be such a backward states of society in Kinney's second article on gov­make-up to execute this for the ulty were educated at secular university, if Fr. Malloy's veto is which the race itself may be ernance, Fr. Malloy claims that future?" universities, as Dr..O'Meara justified, because the faculty considered as in its nonage" his veto was not arbitrary, that The first thing to note about might be taken to suggest. Fr. could not possibly be of such a need not be afforded the liberty he believes "something funda­this rationale is that it is abso­Malloy himself did his graduate character that six more of them to decide for themselves. It is mental is at stake." What might lutely beside the point. No one work at Vanderbilt. What, then, on the academic council would difficult to imagine the mind set this be? Although the letter on has suggested that the faculty is this remarkable feature of the threaten the Catholic character of someone who would believe University governance Fr. should have sole responsibility faculty that disqualifies them of the university unless the edu­such a thing about the faculty Malloy published in The for preserving the Cat~olic from a grater role in gov­cation these faculty provide (even though it echoes a certain Observer some weeks ago gave character of the university. A ernance? What exactly is this were flat out incompatible with infamous remark made by Fr. rise to suspicions, it failed to modest revision of the Academic "imprint" that they lack? Notre Dame's being a Catholic Malloy). clearly articulate what he took Council was formally proposed, I trust that the tone of my university. 
Thinking of my own depart­to be at stake. and various faculty members questions makes it clear that I What I am saying, then, is that ment, I try to picture Dean And perhaps I am just dense, have called for greater faculty do not believe the faculty are of the position I have gleaned from Castellino standing before the but I still could not fmd a clear participation in university such a character as to justify the remarks by Fr. Malloy and assembled faculty. There sit rationale when I reread the let­governance regarding academic the administration's fears. And Dr. O'Meara is deeply inco­David Burrell, Ralph Mcinerny, ter in the slick brochure mailed matters. we need to bear in mind that herent. Their position on faculty Alasdair MacIntyre, Ernan to faculty, and who knows who Dr. O'Meara is an excellent the faculty have been asking for involvement in governance McMullin, Alvin Plantinga, else, at their homes. (I might mathematician, but even he is a greater role in governance could not possibly be correct Philip Quinn, and ken Sayre say that, in this time of suppos­not likely to be capable of regarding academic affairs, not unless Notre Dame had already among others. And Dean edly tight budgets, this mailing proving that either proposal is for the responsibility of pre­lost its character as a Catholic Castellino would say to these did lead me to wonder how equivalent to turning the whole serving the Catholic character university. distinguished scholars that they many discontinued scholarly question of preserving the of the university. Michael DePaul are insufficiently mature to play journals the library could have Catholic character of the But suppose, for a minute, that Associate Professor more of a role in University subscribed to for another year University over to the faculty. greater power in the hands of April4, 1992 governance! Shame, shame! 
Bush does not fulfill criteria for commencement speaker 
Dear Editor: completely open with the partic­public attitudes. leave his political goals behind. future into perspective, the 
We feel that the student body ipants; the second is to be able These attitudes shape not only Three years later, as Bush is in University must consider its first at Notre Dame was given a less to deliver a message solely at the type of language a candidate the midst of a close presidential 150 years in an attempt to than adequate voice in the those directly celebrating the can use, but the content of any race, there appears to be no define the next 150 years. selection of the commencement commencement. These criteria message he delivers. Thus, a reason to suppose that he can This process has already been speaker for the are not saying that the message presidential candidate lacks now act differently. Given the seen in such debates as those on 
Sesquicentennial year. Thus, should not have broader both the openness and depth important nature of the · research and teaching, we wanted to make known implications to those outside the necessary for a meaningful Sesquicentennial commence­coeducational dorms, and the some of our opinions on the commencement arena. They commencement address. ment address, why should we continuing Catholic character of choice of President Bush. are stating, however, that this Because President Bush's top entrust it to someone who is, by Notre Dame. We have already In doing so, it is first important message should not be priority is re-election in 1992, definition of his political con­argued that Bush is unable to to reflect upon the meaning of dominated, or even influenced, he must choose to appease a text, unable to divorce himself fulfill the needs of a commencement. by the reactions of those outside wider audience than those stu­from the objective of re-elec­commencement speaker for the Commencement is the culmina­these proceedings. dents graduating from Notre tion? students here. Given the paral­tion of our experience as stu­Given that 1992 is an election Dame and entering the outside In addition to the above con­lel nature of the student and the 
dents, and the last opportunity year, it is difficult to impossible world. siderations, it is important to University at this special for Notre Dame to be a focal for President Bush to fulfill Three years ago, Bush was recognize that this is the commencement, he also fails on point of this reflection. There these criteria in a way that the invited to address the Notre Sesquicentennial year of Notre the reflective needs of the are two fundamental con­Sesquicentennial class at Notre Dame community during an Dame. As a result, this com­University at this time. 
straints from which the speaker Dame deserves. The campaign election period. He displayed, mencement has a meaning for 
should be free in order to be process, and in particular the through actions such as the re­the University that parallels that Reed Solomon effective in his fulfillment of this national media attention, forces cruiting of a local high school of the student. Just as the Oliver Atassl role. all candidates to temper their band against the University's student is faced with the task of Morrissey Hall The first is the freedom to be convictions towards prevailing wishes, that he was unable to reflecting on past to put the Aprll2, 1992 
..------------------------------------~--~---------~-~---------~------­


APRIL 10-12 

weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 

Charity Music Fest, Field House Mall, 4 to 7 p.m. Edge Wlze, Twist & Shout, 9:30 p.m. Way Past Tense, Midway Tavern Mishawaka, 9:30 p.m. The World, ClubShenanigans, 10 p.m. Metha-tones, Club 23, 10 p.m. VIctoria's Real Secret and Smear, Bridget's, 1 0 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Ice Capades, JACC, 7:30 p.m. "King Lear," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Collegiate Jazz Festival, Session I, Stepan Center, 7:30p.m. Collegiate Jazz Festival, Judge Jam, Stepan Center, 
11:30 p.m. 

saturday 
MUSIC 

Edge Wlze, Twist & Shout, 9:30p.m. Way Past Tense, Midway Tavern Mishawaka, 9:30p.m. 
E.Z. Ed &the Funkmelsters, Club Shenanigan's, 10 p.m. DlssFunktlon, Club 23, 10 p.m. Earl's Court, Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS Collegiate Jazz Festival, Session II, Stepan Center, 1 p.m. Collegiate Jazz Festival, Session Ill, Stepan Center, 
7:30p.m. "King Lear," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Ice Cspades, JACC, 11 :30 a.m., 3:30 p.m., 7:30 p.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS 

"King Lear," Washington Hall, 3:10p.m. St. Ed's Carnival, Holy Cross Hill, Noon to 6 p.m. ,
I 

Fischer Hall Regatta, Saint Mary's Lake, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Dance and More, Moreau Center for the Arts, Little ' Theatre, 7:30 p.m. 
Ice Capades, JACC, 1 p.m., 5 p.m. 
fi)DlS 
FRIDAY 

"Boyz N the Hood," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. "JFK," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

"Boyz N The Hood," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. "JFK," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
I~-~-~-·-~··. ­
By MICHAEL MASONE Accent Writer 

F 
or many members of the Notre Dame community, spring will kick off on Sunday with the Fisher Regatta on St. Mary's Lake. Now in its sixth year, this charity boat race has quickly attracted campus wide participation. 
Half of the proceeds from each boat's entry fee will benefit Fisher Hall's traditional charity, Andre House of Hospitality in Arizona. The· other half will go to the Meghan Beeler-Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarship Fund. This year's Regatta is dedicated in these two women's honor. 
The Regatta began in the fall of 1986 through the efforts of one Fisher resident, Jay Farraher, who sought to "change the image of Fisher Hall." With the assistance of Hall Government and Student Activities, Farraher coordinated the first regatta in April 1987 with 14 boats. 
The biggest boost to the re­gatta's popularity came from Bill Hickey, former Director of Food Services, who organized a lake­side picnic to accompany the running of the regatta. Five years later, the 1991 regatta proudly boasted 35 handcrafted vessels representing every dorm on campus. 
The primary coordinator of the regatta since Farraher's graduation has been Ted Stumpf, Fisher Hall senior and Chairperson of this year's race. Stumpf has obtained the spon­sorship of local business leaders and corporate sponsors as well. 
In addition, WAOR will be broadcasting live from the lake on Sunday afternoon and Papa John's is donating a 30-40 per­son pizza party for the winners. 
And if this year's race follows tradition, Fisher and Lewis Hall residents will be eating a lot of those pizzas. Fisher has won 4 of the 5 men's division races on its workhorse boat, the "Green Seaman I." In the women's di­vision, which began one year later, Lewis Hall has won all 

Fisher boat race expa 
In the 1990 Fisher Regatta, St. Ed's Hall scored well in the category for most
four regatta races. 

barbecue. This year, half of the proceeds from the Regatta will go to the Meg
• 

In fairness to other dorms, the 
Regatta does not only reward its most impressive houseboat complete with Stumpf. He has seaworthy participants. There is also barbecue pit. experimental year an award for the most original boat. This year's total number of entries which is allowing a 
St. Ed's Hall traditionally scores well in should go even further than last year's clubs and campus this category, and last year flaunted an record-setting number, according to enter the race along 
Hawaiian Club explores hist 
By JOHN FISCHER Accent Writer 

he Hawaiian luau. Like a toga or 50's party, the luau is 
a  common  quick-fix  for  college  
students looking to  pump  a  little  
originality into their 'keggers'.  

Imagine typical Domers in floral prints, sipping frozen pink drinks and limbo-ing to Nine Inch Nails. 
Or even consider this: middle aged parental types, plastic lei-bedecked, shuffiing into the house humming "Tiny Bubbles" after Luau Night over at the church. 
Now, find out what a real luau is really like. 
The Notre Dame Hawaiian Club will sponsor their annual luau once again this Friday evening. As in years past, the luau will feature authentic Hawaiian food and entertainment, provided by the club's members. 

Taison Tanaka, senior and general chairman of the luau, said the goal of Friday's event is "to give students and faculty a taste of what Hawaiian cul­ture is about." The title of the celebration is "Mokupuni na Hanauna," which translates literally into "islands through the generations" or alternatively into the 'luau's official English name, "Islands Past, Present, and Future." 
According to Tanaka, the en­tertainment will consist of tracing the history of hula, a traditional dance, from the time of the first Polynesian settlement of the islands through the Hawaiian monarchy and finally to the present day. 
The commonly held perceptions of the luau which began this story are dispelled by Kristin Fernandez, freshman and entertainment supervisor. "The luau and hula", she said, "are grounded in religious tra­ditions of the original Polynesians." 
The original form of hula, called kahiko, was danced as a tribute to the four gods of the Polynesians. At this time the musical accompaniment "was mostly chanted and choppier", according to Fernandez. She added that the dance was also sandwiched between spoken dedications to one of the four gods. 
Auwana, the modern form of hula, has no spoken portions and is typically performed to the accompaniment of two guitars. Like the "Tiny Bubbles" of the church luau, the mL that of Don Ho, but cheesiness typically ac according to Fernandez use Don Ho music," li sured. 
To arrive at the currer from its kahiko roo influenced by the Chris1 islands during the 18th turies and the increasE Americanization of lla changes occurred, hula and more as entertainm 
Hula and the luau, ho serious ceremonial p islands. A person is usu two luaus in his or her l brate birth, and a graduation from high scl1 "The luau require preparation and is veJ: said Fernandez, und, scribing both the cererr the Hawaiian Club luau. 
The future of hula is in the entertainment. Tl the form of "jazz-impr dance", according to; "hula with Hammer mo said Fernandez. What 


page 11 



this to be an tiona! dorm entries. 
the Regatta, The Knights Olf Columbus, one of the all number of non-dorm partiicipants, is entering a anizations to replica of the Santa Maria in honor of 1ith the tradi-the SOOth anni'Versary of Columbus's voyage. 
The Regatta is also known for its ability to persuade a panel of celebrity judges to monitor the event. Serving on this year's panel will be Sgt. Tim McCarthy of the South Bend Police Force, who is famous for his third quarter alcohol awareness puns at home football games. 
"The Regatta staff contacted Willard Scott to be a judge," explained Stumpf, "but he was unable to make the event." However, they did send Scott a video tape of last year's race which he promised to air during his Friday weather broadcast, giving the Regatta its first dose of national television exposure. 
The Fisher Regatta is traditionally the climax of the dorm's spirit week, including an SYR and Barndance. Replacing the Barndance this year was supposed to be a bonfire for all of South Quad with live bands scheduled to play. 
However Stumpf ran into an obstacle while trying to organize the bonfire. 
"The administration frowned on the idea. One reason that was given to me was that nothing like it has ever been done before.", Stumpf said. In place of the proposed bonfire will be a smaller barbecue on South Quad as a farewell to Pangborn Hall. 
This year's regatta will be monitored by the South Bend Water Rescue Squad and all participants will be required to wear life jackets. 
Upgrading of water safety is one of the biggest improvements to this year's regatta," said Brother Ed Luther, Rector of Fisher Hall. 
Though the Regatta has never encountered any safety problems in the past, Luther warned, "You shouldn't wait until you have an accident to use prevention." 
The finish line of the Regatta will be at the bottom of Holy Cross Hill. Overlooking it will be the St. Ed's Charity Carnival. Now in its fourth year, the Carnival hosts a booth from every dorm on campus, explained Stumpf. 
Year after year, the Fisher Regatta has proven to be an effective fund raiser for timely charities. According to Luther, rectors from several dorms see it as an event which "brings students together" since all boats must be handmade by members of the same dorm. In its short history, it has become a 
rite of spring, a celebration of good 
weather after six long months without 
seeing the sun. Simply put, "Ya gotta Regatta." 
ry behind traditional luau 
sic, resembles without the cruing to Ho, "We will not .rnandez as­
auwana form , hula was nizing of the nd 19th cen­tourism and 
aii. As these as seen more t. 
ever, retain a rpose in the lly feted with ,; one to cele­other upon 
ol. months of expensive," 
ubtedly de­nial luau and 
so presented future takes isation style anaka, and .s integrated" er the final 
appearance of the dance, T a n a k a promises it will be a surprise. 
As for food, a genuine Hawaiian buffet will be provided, including kalua pig (smoked pork), teriyaki meat, chicken long­rice, lomi lomi salmon (shredded salmon with c h o p p e d tomatoes and onions) and poi, which has been ex­tolled by Billy 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Crystal and H o w i e 

Mandel, among others. The buffet will p.m. Friday at Theodore's. Tickets are be prepared by Hawaiian Club $5 and can be purchased at the Lafortune Information Desk or any
members. 

Hawaiian Club member. 
The luau will run from 7:30 to 9:30 
Spring fever hits St. Ed•s Carnival 
Observer file photo 

NO student participates in one of the many games the St. Ed's 

Carnival has to offer. 
By KEVIN SULLIVAN 
Accent Writer 

he birds are
T 
singing. The 
squirrels are 
romping. Spring 
has finally come. 
That can mean only two things. One, even those over­worked business majors will join the rest of campus in throwing off their Herculean academic tasks. 1\vo, St. Ed's Carnival is coming. 
This Sunday from 12 to 6 p.m., the annual rite of the Spring season will burst forth on Holy Cross Hill. This puts the Carnival so close to the other big campus event, the Fisher Regatta, that Carnival goers may still have to duck a few aquatic projectiles. It also means that students who feel obligated to Regatta can take place in both events with ease. 
It should be well worth their while, since St. Ed's, with Car­nival co-chairmen John Fry and Fred Swar have again de­livered an event that could be chock full of fun. 
The weekend warrior population at Notre Dame should be able to satisfy their appetites with booths like the Basketball Toss and Football Throw. Also, the ever-popular Moonwalk is back. 
Finally, what would a Carni­val be without that most revered of booths -The Dunk Tank. These booths should provide plenty of entertainment in the form o hapless Domers trying desperately to win prizes for the ones they love. 
St. Ed's will have Troop ND as well as various and sundry campus bands on hand to make the afternoon that much more enjoyable. 
The Carnival encourages the whole campus to get involved, and according to the co-chair­men, somewhere around ten or fifteen dorms are setting up their own booths. 
The proceeds these dorms receive will be able to donate to the charity of their choice. 
There will also be a common fund from non-dorm attrac­tions (like the Moonwalk) that will be split up among three or four charities to be named later. 
Last year, the common fund was donated to organizations like the American Cancer .... Society and the United Way. 
If all this talk of proceeds and charity has students con­cerned about their dwindling capital, it really shouldn't. 
Unlike leaving Scotch tape residue on the walls of an ND dorm room, the St. Ed's Carni­-­val is completely affordable. Participants will only have to muster up a quarter or two per ticket at the booths. 
With such booths filled with full and thrills, the St. Ed's Carnival will definitely help make this weekend one of the more memorable one's this Spring. 
~ ~-­

Accent 
page 12 Friday, April 10. 1992 
AI OS is the masterpiece of the Ape of God 
The Devil has been portrayed 
in existence for bonding body masterpiece of irony and mock­in imaginative literature as the and soul together as part­ery, we should run, not walk, to Ape of God. In all his pomps Father Robert Griffin ners...something as unique as the nearest exit. For the AIDS and evil works, the literature the kick from champaign, generation there may be no says, he imitates and mimics Letters to a Lonely God something as reliable as the exit. Well, then, if we can't the Creator Who made the Energizer Rabbit. Finally the escape from the enemy, we world and saw that it was good. thought of blood entered into must face him and fight him. Whatever the Devil creates, His mind as an idea whose time Fighting to win could mean we
The Ape of God must regard decade, the shedding of blood 
however, is lacking in essential had come. will have to compromise our
AIDS as his masterpiece, be­can cause all hell to break loose 
goodness, and so it becomes a As an elixir supportive of principles.
cause it enables him to steal a because reasonable lads like 
mockery of the truth and beauty man's immortal longings, Nobody can be sure how dis­
little of God's holy thunder. Peter have become aware that 
in things. human blood was very prayer­astrous the AIDS epidemic will
Arthur Ashe contracted the blood from a stranger, splashed
Wednesday evening, seeing fully distilled by the Almighty, get. "Put not your trust in con­
AIDS virus from contaminated on them accidentally, could be 
Arthur Ashe on television as a interceding for Himself. Only by doms," the Catholic Bishops say, 
blood transfusions he received the death of them. Doctors,
victim sharing the illness with having recourse to human and I agree with the Bishops.
after heart surgery. Isn't it dentists, and their nurses 
Magic Johnson, I decided that blood, the heavenly Abba must But if I had a teenager hell-bent
ironic that the blood adminis­wouldn't willingly touch you
in coming up with AIDS, the have realized, could His Divine with lust, I'd be tempted to sew
tered to save this man's life has with a ten-foot pole, if they
Ape of God has produced his Son become incarnate in the condoms into the crotch of his
become his potential killer? couldn't wear protective gloves. 
masterpiece flesh. jeans.
Blood pumped by the heart Blood used to belong to the 
As an acronym, AIDS has be­The Ape of God, who has no
nourishes the brain and gives domain of health, holiness, and 
come the most frightening word blood to shed as a sign of his I'm not smarter or more ex­
life to our limbs. high-jinks; but it wasn't a 
in our language. 1\vo years ago love-and even if he had veins, perienced than the bishops. I'm
Last summer in London, my menace to protect yourself
just before New Year's in he has no love to give only speaking my conscience,
friend Peter found himself from. We feared bullets, knives, 
London, "The Times" carried a away-must have been jealous which I would keep private, if I 
soaked with the blood of a wino and other sharp-edged things 
page that was so terse, it of this life stream of blood thought I had the duty as a
whom he saved from being which could open arteries out of 
shouted at you which gives the sons and priest to do so. If a kid has to go 
knifed to death in a pub brawl. which blood would poor. The 
In the middle of an otherwise daughters of God their inter­home and tell his parents he
Later, worried that he might blood itself wasn't a threat,
blank page was the life-sized relatedness, and makes them a has AIDS, I can't imagine them
have contracted AIDS from his even if it trickled out of a 
picture of a packaged condom, human race. telling him, "At least you were
bloody encounter, Peter under­murder victim. 
accompanied by the words, I suppose that as the spoiler, Catholic enough not to wear
went testing, after the hospital Nowadays, as soon as we see 
"Bring a friend with you"-the he couldn't wait to get his mitts condoms."
doctors who treated the wino, bleeding, an alarm bell rings in 
advice was obviously addressed on this miracle from God's mind I'm not sure that the Devil
agreed that Peter had exposed our minds. The blood could be 
to Times readers going on a which sustains us. Finally, with exists as the Ape of God. I'm not
himself to risk. the outward and external sign
holiday. At the bottom of the the AIDS virus, he is able to get sure he exists at all as a
For a number of weeks, Peter of danger coming from AIDS as 
page, the sponsors of the ad his oar in to poison us. We can person-though you have to
was afraid to sleep with his a sacrament of death. 
identified themselves: AIDS no longer say with the primi­admit that there is something
wife, or to allow his young sons We really don't have a clue to 
Awareness Committee. tives, "The life is in the blood," out there that does not like in­
to touch his hands which were the way the divine 
This simple layout made a without that tug of the mind nocence. But it couldn't hurt us
bruised at work, or his face inventiveness works, but it's not 
complete statement about the that reminds us that blood can to pretend he exists, if that
nicked while shaving, or even hard to imagine the dawn of 
riskiness of unprotected sex. have its sinister side. convince us to protect ourselves 
the dishes he used at table. creation. 
There was absolutely nothing What is the point I'm making? from the darkness that seems
Without the shedding of God, fiddling with the dust out 
else but white space anywhere I think that if in AIDS, the Ape ready to devour us like a roar­
blood, says the Bible, there is of which Adam was made, 
on the page. of God has achieved his ing lion. 
no remission of sin. In the AIDS wanted some life-force not yet 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 7:00 BIOS 420L 01 1916 FIN 360 01 1600 LAW 652A 01 0535 ROIT 103 01 2567 
P.M. 4/9/92 BIOS 420L 02 1931 FIN 360 02 1601 LAW 695 03 1841 ROIT 312 01 2852 
BIOS 455 01 3991 FIN 360 03 1602 LAW 695 05 1843 ROSP 103 04 2585 ACCT 231 10 0830 CAPP 315 01 1164 FIN 360 04 1605 LLRO 451 01 3826 ROSP 103 05 2586 ACCT 231 15 0835 CAPP 361 01 1165 FIN 360 05 1606 MARK 350 02 1855 ROSP 103 06 2587 ACCT 334 01 0841 CE 442 01 1178 FIN 361 02 1608 MARK 476 01 1861 ROSP 103 07 2588 ACCT 334 02 0842 CHEM 119L 02 3053 FIN 361 05 1612 MATH 323 01 1922 ROSP 103 09 2590 ACCT 371 04 0849 CHEM 119L 04 3057 FIN 361 06 1613 MATH 325 01 1923 ROSP 234 01 3836 ACCT 372 01 0852 CHEM 119L' 07 3510 FIN 370 01 1614 MBA 601 01 4074 ROSP 236 01 3837 ACCT 473 01 0854 CHEM 322L 01 1242 FIN 376 04 1620 ME 469 01 0235 ROSP 237 01 0286 ACCT 475 02 0857 CHEM 322L 02 1243 FIN 380 03 1623 Ml 308 01 3120 ROSP 318 01 2602 ACCT 475 03 0858 CHEM 333L 01 4000 FIN 462 01 1625 MI 432A 01 3339 ROSP 328 01 2603 ACCT 476 01 3007 CI-IEM 333L 02 1245 FIN 473 01 1629 MUS 220D 02 0330 soc 220 01 2621 ACCT 479 01 0863 CHEM 333L 03 1246 FIN 476 01 0117 MUS 223 OJ 0327 soc 220T 01 4109 AERO 444L 02 0873 CHEM 333L 04 1247 FIN 478 01 1630 MUS 226 01 2095 soc 300 01 3845 AERO 444L 04 0875 COTH 210 01 3567 GE 101 02 1690 NSCI 411 03 2165 soc 332 01 0054 AERO 446L 02 0879 COTH 330 01 3569 GE 301 01 2984 PHIL 201 07 2188 soc 374 01 3449 AERO 446L 03 0880 COTH 334C 01 3572 GOVT 340 02 2988 PHIL 201 09 2190 soc 445 01 3855 AERO 446L 04 0881 COTH 377 01 3079 GOVT 342 01 1707 PHIL 222 01 2195 soc 520 01 2631 AFAM 384 01 3520 COTH 435 01 3575 GOVT 343T 03 0384 PHIL 222 02 0321 STY 247 01 3290 AFAM 384C 01 3519 ECON 303L 02 0296 GOVT 343T 05 0381 PHIL 223 01 3784 STY 310 01 3716 AFAM 452 01 3214 ECON 403 01 3584 GOVT 403 01 3670 PHIL 225 01 3137 STY 454 01 3029 AFAM 474 01 4152 ECON 403T 01 3585 GOVT 419 01 4150 PHIL 230 01 3785 THEO 229 01 3873 AL 211 02 0889 ECON 421 01 1350 GOVT 454 01 3673 PHIL 235 01 2197 THEO 237 01 0709 AL 211 05 0892 ECON 422 01 0662 GOVT 474 01 4096 PHIL 239 01 1759 THEO 250 01 0661 AL 211 06 0893 ECON 489 01 1881 GSC 358 01 3648 PHIL 239 02 1575 THEO 258 01 3874 AL 211 15 0902 EDUC 201F 02 8402 GSC 430 01 3457 PHIL 243 01 3786 THEO 261 01 0704 AMST 580 01 3534 EDUC 201F 04 8404 GSC 475 01 3657 PHIL 246 01 2198 THEO 265 01 0703 ANTH 310 01 2935 EDUC 201F 06 8406 GSC 480Z 01 3352 PHIL 247 01 3190 THEO 281 01 3151 ANTH 328 01 2798 EDUC 324 18 8418 HIST 308 01 3119 PHIL 253 01 3141 THEO 286 01 3882 ANTII 329 01 3225 EDUC 404 26 8426 HIST 308A 01 3722 PHIL 261 02 3788 THEO 287 01 0254 ANTH 329A 01 3539 EDUC 440L 30 8430 HIST 326A 01 3723 PHIL 263 01 3789 THEO 288 01 4070 ANTJI 405A 01 3544 EDUC 452 42 8442 HIST 348A 01 3728 PHIL 265 01 2201 THEO 290 01 4156 ANTH 420 01 2566 EE 342L 01 1397 HIST 354A 01 3731 PHYS 210 01 2999 THEO 290 02 4157 
ARHI 169 01 0970 EE 342L 04 0144 HIST 358A 01 3733 PHYS 221 01 2231 ARHI 397 01 3307 EE 344T 02 1402 HIST 395 01 0080 PHYS 221L 04 2235 CLASSES THAT WILL REOPEN ARST 245S 01 3036 EE 348T 02 2690 HIST 431A 01 3737 PHYS 222 01 2238 AT 7:00P.M. 4/10/92 ARST 325S 01 1003 ENGL 310 01 1560 HIST 440A 01 3739 PHYS 222L 01 2239 BA 230 06 0121 ENGL 311 01 1561 HIST 444A 01 3741 PHYS 331L 01 2249 ARHI 169 01 0970 BA 362 01 1057 ENGL 319A 01 1564 HIST 453A 01 3743 PHYS 331L 02 0658 BA 490 06 1070 BA 363 02 1059 ENGL 319A 02 1565 HIST 458 01 3744 PSY 341L 02 2446 EDUC 201F 04 8404 BA 363 03 1060 ENGL 324 01 3592 HIST 458A 01 3745 PSY 342 01 2363 FIN 360 04 1605 BA 363 04 1061 ENGL 328A 01 0175 HIST 459A 01 3746 PSY 356 01 3809 FIN 360 05 1606 -BA 391 01 0769 ENGL 384C 01 3164 HIST 465A 01 3747 PSY 457 01 3811 FIN 361 06 1613 BA 391 02 0768 ENGL 416F 01 3074 HIST 472A 01 3748 PSY 472 01 2364 HIST 472A 01 3748 
... 

BA 391 03 0559 ENGL 417 01 3611 HIST 474A 01 3749 PSY 478 01 3812 MATH 325 01 1923 BA 490 03 1067 ENGL 4408 01 3613 liPS 247 01 3192 PSY 481 01 3813 PHYS 221 01 2231 BA 490 04 1068 ENGL 471A 01 3623 liPS 335 01 4138 RLST 200 14 9514 BA 490 05 1069 ENGL 4788 01 3624 liPS 473C 01 4145 RLST 220 24 9524 . BA 490 06 1070 ENGL 485C 01 1581 LAW 601 01 1806 RLST 235 40 9540 BIOS 344L 01 1084 ENGL 492C 01 3628 LAW 603 02 1810 RLST 235 42 9542 BIOS 344L 02 1085 ENGL 493A 01 3629 LAW 606D 01 1813 RLST 240 28 9528 BIOS 344L 03 3897 ENGL 495A 01 3630 LAW 631A 01 1826 RLST 240 30 9530 BIOS 344L 04 3899 ENGL 592C 01 3637 LAW 6318 01 1827 RLST 335 56 9556 BIOS 405 01 0135 ENGL 595B 01 3638 LAW 633 01 2994 ROFR 426 01 3438 
L__-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~· 
---~~--------~ ----~ 
Friday, April 10,1992 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds _, 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
We are looking for a mature and  Cheap, Cheap, Cheap!lll!  WALK TO N.D. CAMPUS!  LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW  to the athletic dept.:  
NOTICES  dependable student to babysit our newborn for 30 to 40 hours a week,  Summer Sublet Available from May until August, or anything in  Charming 3 BR home fo sale just blocks from campus in historic  YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY.  your time is gonna come -led zeppelin  
in our home, starting May 18th.  between.  Harter Heights. Hardwood floors,  287-6541.  
05/15 WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Experience preferred; personal or academic references accepted and salary negotiable. Please call us at 287-3297.  Mostly Furnished, 2 bedroom Townhouse. Close to Campus, Swimming Pool, Playground, and CONCRETE  built-in bookshelves, fireplace, sun porch. Two story w/full basement and walk-up attic, central air, 1600 square feet.  Is anyone out there interested in studying for our Economics 303 exam:  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY I Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt  
TURTLES!  409 Napoleon Blvd, $79,900  (Statistics) . . . ? ? ?  and provide a loving home to an  
PLEASE CALL US NOW!  233-1938  Please call Cris @ X4907  infant. All Expenses paid. Please  
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  Need a ride to Vanderbilt any weekend. Will help with expenses, etc. Call Rich@ X1695  Peggy 277-3626 Cricky x2922  one way tic. Chcago Midway to Boston.  Does anyone have extra tickets for graduation ? ? Please call Cris @ X4907  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. THE TUTUS ARE BACK...  
COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12  May 18 $150/best  NEED A RIDE within 200 miles of  ADOPTION  
NEW UNITS-1300 sq. ft.­ call Mike 277-9068  VIRGINIA TECH in BLACKSBURG,  Childless, Christian, Couple wishes  
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00AM. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665.  Even though MR. BUSH is speaking at graduation, my aunt still wants to come. Please help her out;Sell me a graduation ticket. Call x4233  Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -available immediately-call287­0534 or 271-9268. Summer sublet-Turtle Creek 2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466  'ROLLERBLADES' Discount prices. Call Larry at GET­IN-LINE 314-644-2005.  VA FOR EASTER BREAK! $$ WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS $$ Call LISA at X26:!1 Darmok on the ocean Gillard on the ocean The beast at Tanagra Darmok and Gillard at Tanagra  to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. All ND/SMC students are cordially invited to the Hispanic American Organization SYR on Friday, April 1Oth at the Knights of Columbus.  
SENIORS:  Darmok and Gillard with the beast.  The event will take place from 9  
'88 ND Grad is directing an office in  1974 Fiat X1-9, convertable,  Darmok and Gillard on the ocean.  p.m. to 1:30 a.m. Come and enjoy  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082.  Las Vegas for a national, publicly­held company. I'm not interested in your degree. I'm looking for a hard  SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAP!!! Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse  red, replaced motor, 4-sp, restored, woman owned, $3500 O.B.O.  Ken and Trish on the ocean. Happy Birthday, kiddo.  all types of music. Cost is $5 for couples and $3 if you're going solo. Hope to see you there.  
worker who wants a career  Available for summer. 2, 3, or 4  Jim 271-1211 or 287-5713  Meg,  
opportunity. Call702-647-0017 from  students rent negotiable. 2  anytime  • FRIENDS FOREVER'  THE METHA-TONES  
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  10-4. Ask for John.  bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt X3414 or 3410  TICKETS  AND 'LOVE YOU ALWAYS!' Love, LandM  Not just a bunch of made-up hoodlums playing rock n roll-a bunch of made-up hoodlums with ADVANCED DEGREES playing  
NEED A RIDE TO EITHER DC  rock n roll.  
LOST/FOUND  AREA OR BREEZEWOOD FOR EASTER. WILL HELP DRIVE AND PAY EXPENSES. CALL DAVE #3273  SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE CREEK) 272-9540!  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. Will pay ANY amount of money. CaiiJIMX1577  To the SISTERS CHAIN Band: You sounded great when you played Wednesday. Hope to hear more from you in the future!  FRI. APRIL 10 CLUB 23 !CPA is COMING, ICPA is COMING, !CPA is COMING...  
Still lost! Petite green women's  Former resident of  
class ring. Inside reads "ACS '93".  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  54 Greenfield Dr.  Future Alums!  
Lost on St. Pat's Day. If found PLEASE return to 143 Farley Hall or caiiAngie at X4095.  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  FOR LARGE 4-BEDROOM, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER &  Need 1 GRAD tix pleeease!! Carrie x3484  Maynooth 4th FLOOR KEITH ANDERSON:  Order your "N.D. Alum" sweatshirt now! Sara X1311 or Becky X4805  
LOST: My favorite brown SUEDE  Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program  DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 OR 255-5852.  FOR SALE: chp. 1 way lick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. Jim x1558.  We're watching you...and we're coming TO GET YOU I! You'd better lock your door!  luv to pain from sexpig! Driving to Atlanta/TN for Easter? Let  
GLOVES! If found, PLEASE call  call Student Employment Services  Happy 19th Birthday ....  me come! Molly X2534  
Jen at x2650.  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5  MADDY MCGRATH  
Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW! Safe Area, Private Parking Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court,  Need 1-2 grad tix. Talking big $$. Ron 3315, leave message.  I'm so glad you left Cali to go to school with me out here!  As Horny Smurf always says, "I want my horn up your smurf"  
Were you at Rita's on Friday night? If so, arid you happened to find a watch there, please call Lisa at 4838. The watch holds great sentimental value. Thanks.  Turtle Creek guys need two more roommates for next year. Call Brian at x3414.  Semi-Furnished. Call234-1886 705 Notre Dame Ave., 3-bdrm., family or grad students. Avail. 6/1,  GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED I'm desperate! I need at least three tickets, relatives coming from Georgia. Please call Toni at 284­9346 (8-5) or 277-4320 (eve.)  Have an awesome day RarRar.. Love, your big sis D I  D I s s F SATURDAY U APRIL 11th  
Need a female rider to Dallas/EI Paso after finals ...  summer lease and/or fall term. $475/mo. 234-8200 for details.  PERSONAL  s s  N AT CLUB 23 K  
LOST- call Susan 284-4435  F BOOTIE MOVIN' GROOVES  T  
u  I  
WILSON SOFTBALL MITT ON  N SATURDAY, APRIL 11th  0  
THURS., 4-2. LEFT AT BOOKSTORE COURTS ON THE  Need 1 male Lafayette Sq  4 BEDROOM HOUSE for SUMMER.  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me  K AT CLUB 23 T  N  ...  
BLEACHERS NEAR BADIN HALL.  92-93 sch yr 277-6471  Walk to campus. Furnished.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  I  !CPA: The legend continues.  
I LOVE MY MITT-IT HAS GREAT  Sale neighborhood.  289-1993. Office near campus.  0  This year one of us is going to get  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE! IF YOU  Call Agnes x2769  N  elected to a prominent !CPA  
HAVE ANY INFO, PLEASE,  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  position-! can feel it.  
PLEASE, PLEASE  Need ride to Boston for Easter. Will  Winning Hotel, has rooms for  Happy birthday Colleen Casey!I  Feel it, live it, just do it.  
help with expenses. Call Manhua  Graduation weekend. Located at  Love, Alicia, Ann & Carrie  !CPA '92  
CALL MARGARET '2853  @239-7932(0), 283-3953(h).  Attractive studio's in lovely old  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  
Mansion 112 mile from ND 225­ (12 miles from South Bend)  'T'N'D'  CAP 'N' CORK  
300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  TROOP NOTRE DAME  
Female roommate needed for  for summer and fall rentals.  deposit per room. Send letter with  CAP 'N'CORK  
FOUND: At Stonhenge, 1  Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50.  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,  WATCH FOR PERFORMANCE  
groovy looking hoop earring  Call 258-5702  Elkhart, IN 46514.  St. Ed's Charity Carnival  NW CORNER OF LASALLE  
with brass beads and so on...  this SUNDAY, the 12th from  AND NILES-JUST PAST SPAG.  
drop by 303 St. Ed's or call  6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO  1:00 -2:00 at Holy Cross Hill  WORKS  
x1672  CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306  during the Regatta!  
HELP!II Everyone bailed on me.  NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation  CAP 'N'CORK  
Need 1,2, or 3 roomates for place  please call Neal at 283-1159  
off campus for next year. Have nice  
LOST:  furniture!  FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy  For SALE:  
CaiiJP@X1081.  3-story house, ample parking,  3 GUNS N' ROSES TICKETS  JOHN DOYLE JOHN DOYLE !!!!!  
Silver drop earring with purple  security, close to ND. 272-5509.  Custom-made  for Aprii10-Rosemont  
stone. Lost somewhere between  HAIR-BOWS  Price negotiable  Your finally 21 yea! 21  
Senior Bar and Fitzpatrick.  Call 284-41 06 or 5330  Have fun tonight and remember  
If found, pis. call Kelley 283-4836.  $$We need rides to NJ/Phila for  by Lynn and Sally  your sister's 19th.  
Easter! 1321-Kristinmna  ROOM FOR RENT.  Dont wake us up when you come  
Privacy, garage, cable, utilities incl.,  call x2764  LAST DAY'LAST DAY  home in a drunken stooper.  
wash/dryer. Nice home -must see.  TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO BUY  
Lost: Blue ID case lost on 4/1  FOR RENT  291-9093.  -various materials, designs and colors available- A RECYCLIN' IRISH TEE SHIRT! ON SALE DURING DINNER AT  EARL'S COURT MUST PLAY!  
in the Huddle sometime between  NOH & SOH. HELP SUPPORT ND  
11-12 at lunch. Contains NY license, ND id,  SUMMER SUBLET  SUMMER SUBLET!!!  RECYCLING AND EARTH DAY!  
Senior Bar card, money card, Detex. If found, please call Dee at 277-5798.  SUMMER SUBLET TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FURNISHED! II!  Turtle Creek-2 bdrm townhouse. Rent negotiable. Call Teri or Laney x4829  PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold Game Day), at St. Joseph's High School. Help the parents keep the kids safe  HAPPY BELATED 21ST BIRTHDAY, SHAYNE NOW THAT YOU'RE LEGAL,  St. Edward's Hall Forum  
Found 3/28 a strand of pearls by Greenhouse behind Haggar. Call Eric x2059 to claim. LOST: WALLET LAST THURSDAY AT THE COMMONS. IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO JEFF LYMAN X1171  THAT'S RIGHT, FURNISHED! TWO BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE HALF BATHS, LARGE LIVING AREA, FENCED IN PATIO, WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. CALL ERIC X1392 CALL BRYAN OR BRENNAN X1376 CALL KEN X1385  2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, summer school. $200/mo. Use of all facilities. Close to campus, safe neighborhood. 232-2794. HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 4 56 BDRMS FULLY FURNISHED SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHERS/DRYERS 287-4989  after the prom. Proceeds go to support the Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call 272-3753 and leave message. Tickets can be delivered directly to you on campus. Help Me, Please I need graduation tickets if anyone  ALWAYS REMEMBER OUR MOTTO: CHUG-A-LUG IT! POUND IT! BONG ITI JUST DON'T PUKE IT! LOVEYA, MICHELLE hey nil  Congressman Tim Roemer speaks on "My Hopes As A Catholic in  
LOST: pair of room keys call #3577  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  FOR SALE  has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in  National Politics"  
I WANTED  2 Bedroom  Alumni selling PLANTS and  please, help me  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  Monday April 13 7:00P.M.  
Grad student seeking House­sitting position for summer. Will care for plants & pets. Mature & Responsible. Call Yanxi 277-7876.  Walk to Campus $390 Month 232 3616  FURNITURE. Call Robert Smith at 255-1994  LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541.  The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans!  


page 14 

·­

Orioles 
continued from page 20 

wrecking ball. With Comiskey Park. baseball's original palace, already a thing of the past, the last thing the major leagues need is to lose another landmark. 
However, what the Orioles have proven is that if it is time to say goodbye to a legend, an equally impressive stadium should take its place. Forget every dome from coast to coast, baseball deserves a better home. 
Fenway Park, Wrigley Field, Yankee Stadium and Tiger Stadium are the only real legends still standing and Tiger Stadium may soon be the victim of a wrecking ball. 
Sure, it seems like Fenway, Wrigley and Yankee Stadium will be around forever, but don't be too sure. 
The hallowed halls of Boston Garden will soon be a memory, and Chicago White Sox fans now park their cars where their heroes once toiled. And who knows what could happen if George Steinbrenner ever gets control again in the Bronx. 
Baseball's palaces are slipping away, and nobody seems to care enough to replace them. But fortunately for fans and players alike, Baltimore does care. 
Thank you, Baltimore Orioles. You've given baseball a new place to call home. 
The Observer Friday, April 10,1992 
Track teams head for Dogwood Relays 
By JOSEF EVANS 
and AlAN AKEY 
Sports Writers 

Following two consecutive weeks of impressive split squad performances, the Irish men's track team returns to full power this weekend, competing in the Sea Ray Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tenn. 
Head coach Joe Piane, pleased with last weekend's performances in Indianapolis and Austin, is optimistic about the Dogwood competition. 
"I think the group of kids that we're taking to this meet are ready to race well," he commented. They've had very good workouts over the past two weeks and they're running close to their potential and are not over-raced. 
"[John] Coyle is training like a madman right now. He's been very focused and is ready to have a big outdoor season to follow up his indoor achieve­ments." 
Move up to uMAPLE LANE APARTMENTs•• 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments {4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms . Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent 


For further infonnation call 277-3731 Located at Cleveland and Bendix 
Coyle, an All-American run­ning in the 3,000-meter stee­plechase, will be joined by a large contingent of Irish ath­letes. 
John Cowan, who holds the squad's best performance this season in the ,5,000 meters will attempt to better his time in the same event. 
Co-captain Ryan Mihalko also would like to challenge last week's javelin throw of 214 feet, 5 inches, which earned him third on the all-time list of Irish performances in the event. 
The Notre Dame women's track team has been showing great improvement lately, and the key to that improvement may be their attitude. 
"The more, the merrier" seems to be the present feeling on the team, and if that holds true, this weekend's Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tenn., should prove successful. 
After last week's strong showing at the Indianapolis 
Intercollegiates, where they sent nearly the entire team, the Irish will again have a large contingent on hand. 
Junior standout Karen Harris will again be competing in the shot put and discus events, but leading the way for the team will be its distance runners. Of these, only Diana Bradley and Lisa Gorski, who will both be running the 3,000-meter race, are upperclassmen. 
The freshmen distance corps will be paced by Eva Flood in the 5,000, whose second-place finish in the 1,500 last week was the team's highest. Also running in the 5,000 are Stefanie Jensen and Kristi Kramer, while Becky Alfieri and Sarah Riley will compete in the 1,500. 
Piane, meanwhile, offered additional optimism. 
"All of our people are doing extremely well right now," Piane said. "Hopefully, they will be able to continue to improve on their efforts at this meet." 

TWINS•.. 
The Twin Registry at the Department of Psychology needs you! Identical, Fraternal twins who are undergraduates (seniors welcome), 
ad students, faculty, staff or alum · 
are needed to form a registry for future psychology studies. Only one twin needs to be at N.D. Send your name and phone number to II8 Haggar Hall or call Z7I-9039· 


.... 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVA 
APRIL 10-11,1992 STEPAN CENTER 
FRIDAY EVENTS 
SESSION I 7:30P.M. JUDGES JAM 11 :30 P.M. I 
t SATURDAY EVENTS~ 
SESSION II 1 :00 P.M. I SESSION Ill 7:30P.M. I 
I
JUDGES 
DAN MORGENSTERN 
CRITIC 
JAMES WILLIAMS 
PIANO 
LEW TABACKIN 
SAX( )/'HONE 
ED THIGPEN 
DRUMS 
BILL WATROUS 
TROMBONE 
JOHN CLAYTON JR 
SAXOPHONE 
INFORMATION NUMBER 
239-7757 
ADVANCE TICKET SALES AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 


Friday, April 10,1992 The Observer page 15 
SMC softball drops two to Kalamazoo Darby on hot streak as SMC 
tennis meets Taylor University 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team's three-game winning streak ended yesterday when they lost to the Kalamazoo Hornets, 13-9 and 6-4. 
Playing away from South Bend and without their star pitcher, the Belles had several good showings despite their loss. 
Sophomore Sara Miller contributed three hits for the Belles, while Carol Grobner, Staci Bogataj, Shawn Patrick 
Fisher 
continued from page 20 
Mollie Foley, and is currently at 5:17.01. 
This season, Fisher has assumed a leadership position among the long distance runners. In the absence of a long distance coach, the Belles only senior long distance runner has had to guide and motivate a crew of mostly underclassmen. 
She admits the job wasn't and Erin Wachter added two apiece. 
Miller pointed out that the Belles continued their strong hitting. 
"We really got the bats on the ball," she explained. "We are a much stronger hitting team than we were last year." 
Miller also felt that the game was a learning experience. 
"Even though we lost, we learned that we have a second pitcher, Carol Grobner, that we can fall back ori," said Miller. 
The Belles will travel to Chicago this weekend to partie­
easy to assume, but has turned out to be rewarding. 
"At first I was saying, 'What are you asking me for?' But l realized I'm the only senior long distance runner and they are mostly freshmen and sophomores," Fisher remarked. "I've grown a lot and worked on improving my leadership skills." 
Fisher's goal this season is to break the 5:30 mark in the 1500. She's come close, but hasn't been able to pass it. 
Fisher hopes to reach this personal best tomorrow at the ipate in the North Central College tournament. The Belles, who hope to improve on last year's 1-2 record at the tour­nament, will be taking on Elmhurst College, Trinity Col­lege and North Central College. 

The Belles will be without the leadership of senior co-captain Janet Libbing, who underwent knee surgery on Wednesday. 
"Not having Janet with us will put more pressure on our only other senior, Carol Grobner," said Saint Mary's coach Don Cromer. 
Little States Invitational down at Indiana University-Purdue University in Indianapolis. Running on the nation's best track, Fisher and Szczechowski are both confident that the goal will be achieved. 
"It's a big meet. It's really nice because the track they have was built for the Pan Am games in 1988. I'm shooting for my personal best this weekend," Fisher stated. _ "I think if Sharon runs her best, she'll earn a place," added Szczechowski. "It's a great place to run, down there, and we're looking forward to the meet and to doing well." 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team is looking to continue its win­ning ways against Taylor University tomorrow. 
The Belles beat Valparaiso 9­0 on Wednesday after losing to Division I Bowling Green State University on Sunday. 
Sophomore Thayma Darby has been on a roll this season, boasting a 12-1 record at number-five singles. 
Darby feels that the win against Valparaiso should boost the team's confidence level heading into tomorrow's game. 
"After a tough loss at Bowling Green, it was great for the team to get back on track with an impressive win against Valpo," said Darby. 
Taylor boasts strong players at number-two and number­four singles, but is still aware of Saint Mary's talent. 
"Saint Mary's is highly re­spected in our eyes and we are going to have to work hard," said Taylor coach Tina Krause. "Saint Mary's is very reputable and for either team to win, it's going to have to play it's best." 
SPORTS. BRIEFS 
•sport$ Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of La,Fortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the' })rief is to run. 
IBqt)~_. te ~as~etbr:tltplayers who lostwatches or a pairof 
gloY~$fL l:ld 28l~l22~or,283;,1696to identity. .' 
·· ·. · .... ·. . . Btke Races are accepting applicants for the Fast 
ike . ·s and the Off•road·Bike races. Races start at 4:30 p.m. 
on April 2~ at Saint Maifs. Register in the SUB office in 
)jaFortUile on Friday orM(I'Ilday from 9 a.m.. to 6 p.m. Helmets 
.· B.re tecJUirQd. Questions?;Ca1J KarlEtzel at 283*2257. 
•The ND Martial Arts Institute wUihold ~ belt testing tl;l¢P a . ·. aot q'the .Jloc~eMemorial trot:n 1 
eryo ·com~ to attend, · · 
•A b .....Jflltte$tlng $~ion will be conducted by RecSports on Fri~~Y,;from 11 a.m. 'tQl p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. No 
Saint Mary's Student Government 
presents 

Deborah Norville 
ABC Radio Network talk show host former co-host, NBC TODAY 
Issues Facing Women in 1992 

Tuesday,April 14,7:30 p.m. O'LaughlinAuditorium Admission free 
Program support provided by the South Bend YWCA and the Saint Mary's chapter ofWomen in Communication, Inc. 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 

page 16 Friday, April 1 0,1992 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Juni~r Chuc~ Cole~an str~tches for a volley in a recent match against Ball State. Coleman moves up one spot 1n the smgles lineup th1s weekend at the MCC Championships. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
Dziura will be looking for his first doubles win of the year to go along with a 2-1 singles record. Lopez has gone 2-1 in doubles this year, including a win with Tad Eckert at the number-one position. 
Wilson has seen action ·at three-doubles this year, teaming with Chris Wojtalik for a victory against West Virginia, and Payurno has won matches with both Coleman and Zurcher this season. 
"It's a bit of a risk," stated Bayliss, "but it insures that we will be fresh." 
Sophomores Tad Eckert and Tom North will play at number­one doubles for the first time this year, but both are experi­enced. They also are corning off a big win over Ball State's John Amos and Pierre Dommestrup on Wednesday. Their win clinched Notre Dame's 6-3 victory over the 22nd-ranked Cardinals. 
"It is a show of confidence for the way they pulled that match out," said Bayliss. "They showed an awful lot of poise." 
The resting of DiLucia will not pose much of a problem for the Irish singles lineup. Moving up one notch will be Zurcher, Coleman, Forsyth, and North, and juniors Ron Rosas and Chris Wojtalik will occupy the fifth and sixth spots. They have both played well in those spots all year. 
"I'm confident in our ability to play well," noted Bayliss. "I'm also anxious to see how we will handle it." 
As far as the other partici­pants, Butler seems to be des­tined for a second-place finish. 
"Butler has played most of the other teams in the conference and they have beaten them all." said Bayliss. 
Unfortunately for the Bulldogs, their undefeated conference record has a very good chance of coming to an end here at Notre Dame this weekend. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
benefiting from the goalie play, and the goalies are benefitting from the play of the rest of the defense." 

The stellar play of the Irish midfield has take some load off of Parent, Jewell, and the rest of the defense, as well as eornplernenting the Notre Dame attack. In the Denison rnatchup, the middies nPtted six goals while delivering four assists. 
"Our midfield has played Pxceptional. Our attack has heen getting a lot of goals, but often those goals are the result of the play from the midfield," added Corrigan. 
With six games remaining for r he Irish, talk of an NCAA ·ournament bid has arisen. 
orrigan quickly quiets those remarks, stating his team has too many games remaining to 

... be thinking that far ahead. "The NCAA is something 
... 


-r ,..,. r-Aif1 Chinese-American h '-'~""~" Restaurant & 
Cocktail Lounge 

\'t/ALL 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 
Voted Best

Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 
Oriental Restaurant 

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by130 Dixie Way S., South Bend 

Mic'hiana Now
(next to Randall's Inn) 

BRUNO'S PIZZA 18" Pizza, 2 ITEM LIMIT 
$12.00 
288-3320 
Available 7 days a week 
Banquet Rooms Available for 50-1 00 students 
Special Student Discount wI Stud. ID 
$3.00 Drink Pitchers 
which is way off," said Corrigan. "We have three parts left to our season. The games on Saturday and Monday, the trip to Colorado, and our season-ending home games. We 

Stacey, you're 21! That's Scary! 
The Wild Woman of Borneo 
need to take each games as they come, and not dwell on the NCAA tournament." 
The Mt. St. Mary's game is scheduled for 2 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY WILL OFFER 
SUMMER STORAGE 
FOR YOUR WINTER ITEMS!! 
STORAGE POLICY: 

STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 13, 1992, WITH DROP OFF AT EITHER SAINT
• 

MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OR THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER LOCATED ON CAMPUS STUDENTS MAY REQUEST THAT THE STORAGE FEE BE DEDUCfED FROM
• 

THEIR LAUNDRY CONTRACf, HOWEVER, YOU NEED NOT HAVE A CONTRACf TO PARTICIPATE ALL ITEMS MUSI' BE LAUNDERED OR DRY CLEANED BY SAINT MICHAEL'S 
• 

• 
AT THE TIME OF STORAGE AND A $5.00 STORAGE FEEWIU..BEADDEDTO YOUR INVOICE ALL ITEMS MUST BE RETRIEVED FROM THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION 
CENTER (ON CAMPUS) NO LATER THAN SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 OR AN ADDIDONAL FEE OF 25% OF THE TOTAL INVOICE WILL BE IMPOSED 
SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OFFICE HRS 7:30A.M.-4:30P.M. M-F 239-7802 SAINT MICHAEL'S BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER HRS 8:00A.M. -4:30 P.M. M-F 239-7565 
$3.50~-----­

~CVTTiiYXlr: 
AII Shows 

Scottsdale Mall • 
STRAIGHT
'*I ~ta..

:»"-.LK 
DOLLY PARTON JAMES WOODS ~ 
Fri,Snt,Sun I :lO, l:lO, 5:l0, 7:30, 9:45 Mon-Thun 5:30, 7:30, 9:45 
SUMMERTIME! 

~ 
~ 
Bolon• 6 prn 
291-4583 
WHITE MEN CA~'T JUMP 
WESLEY SNIPES WOODY HARRELSON [!!]
Fri, Snt,Sun 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Mon-Thun 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
A brutal murder. A brilliant killer. 

Friday, April 10,1992 The Observer page 17 
ND Rugby hosts April Madness 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's nationally renowned Rugby Club will make its second consecutive appearance in the National Collegiate Rugby Tournament this year. 
Reminiscent of the recent NCAA basketball tournament, the 64 best collegiate rugby teams in the country will meet in the first round on Saturday to battle over who will be the 1992 national champion. There will be two first-round games held at Stepan Field on the Notre Dame campus. 

At 1:00 p.m., Notre Dame will play Wisconsin-Whitewater, and at 2:30 p.m., Southern Illinois will play Miami of Ohio. On Sunday, the consolation game will be at 11:30 a.m., while Saturday's winners will play at 1:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame forward Chip Forteson believes that the University of Wisconsin­Whitewater could be Notre Dame's most formidable oppo­nent this weekend. However, Forteson made it clear that Notre Dame will play aggressive and will use their speed and fitness to neutralize the Whitewater's size advantage. 
"Whitewater has a big pack of forwards," said Forteson. "But if we bring it to them, we'll outlast them." 
Saying that Notre Dame has won its CARFU division (Chicago Area Rugby Football Union) for the past two years is an understatement. They've torn the division to threads. 
In the CARFU tournament this year, Notre Dame won the championship with a combined score for the three games of 96­
6. Last year, their combined score was 104-5. The CARFU championship earned them the invitation to the national tour­nament this Saturday. 

Baseball opens MCC season against Evansville 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The 22nd-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (14-9) opens Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence play this weekend when Evansville (14-15) comes into town for a four-game series. 
The Irish are coming off a tough loss to Purdue on Wednesday while the Purple Aces defeated Southern Illinois on Tuesday. 
The Notre Dame-Evansville rivalry is one of the more heated in the MCC. The Aces were the regular season con­ference champions last year while the Irish captured the 1991 MCC tournament title. The teams have faced each other in the last two MCC title games. 

Baseball America picked the teams to finish 1-2 in the MCC this year with the Irish taking the title. 
"It's always fun to play Evansville," said Dan Bautch and Mike Rooney. "It's been between Evansville and us win­ning the conference in the last 

1e-42-1992 
Un..,.MI of ~f!Q Dorre 
20 YEARS OF WOMEN AT NOTRE DAME: 
Past, Present and Future 
A Panel Discussion Sponsored by The Gender Studies Colloquium Sunday April 12 7pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
PaneUsts t.nclude: Fr. Don McNeill. Prof. Josephine Ford. Assistant Prof. Charlene Avd!Jme. Ms. <:a!hartre Rdus. Ms. Joonne Kelly. cathcr1ne Sleehy. Marruel E:.splno 
rm -u;;ivERsrTY :~ophomore. se.rv\c.t. 
OF NOTRf: DAilE 1 , _,__..., 
~-=== C.OI"'\\N-tiu. pre.~ ..... 
,u,.,,... c~~r1 t~ ~ 1\ti~ic ~fest; d 
rU.TU~N.... . 
'?>rVl!\ ,Co\\1'\ I~ ~\1\d.." ..........'-1: aa-a..t: Y5,1 Xl2. AJio.\r ................~: Lts~ 5:30 •~­~\tmci6.' ~ ~QQ.\ ~J ...... , , 5:30-(,:IS tM ktt~'5 ~\td (.:t~ -1~ oo,,
0 •• 0 0 0 0 ••• ' 0 
f\PR1L \Ou tiFJD~~Ust_M~LL 
I dai'\O..iionc_, ~ -h:l Cu\efit -\he. 
-8t3NJ\ ~lt.\tr CU\~ (.c\\~"' ttifP Sc.ho~hip h.lr-4~ 
three years. There should be some great games; both teams match up well." 
Evansville comes into the game leading the MCC in sev­eral pitching categories. Senior John MacCauley is atop the MCC in victories with a 5-3 record and strikeouts per nine innings with 54 for an average of9.10 per game. 
MacCauley, last year's MCC player of the year, is the proba­ble starter for Friday night's game and will face junior Chris Michalak (4-1, 2.82 ERA, 26 strikeouts), who is second in the MCC in both wins and ERA. 
Junior Greg Willming is third in the strikeout category and may face junior AI Walania (2­3, 3.25 ERA, 30 strikeouts) in one of Saturday's game. 
Walania is fourth in ERA. 
Sophomore Curtis Broome and either sophomore Tom Price (1-1, 5.82) or Dave Sinnes (3-1, 3.86) will battle on the mound in the second half of the doubleheader on Saturday. 
Sunday's game matches either sophomore Chris Helfrich or junior Jeff Tenbarge and Irish junior Pat Leahy (4-4, 3.55). 
The series starts on Friday night at 7:30 p.m. at Coveleski Stadium and continues with a doubleheader on Saturday starting at 1 p.m. and a single game at 1 p.m. on Sunday. Saturday and Sunday's games will be played at Jake Kline Field. 
"I love playing at Jake Kline," said Bautch. "We play best there. It's home to us." 
,..-.r~._~.r~~.r~~~~.r~~.r.r~~~.r.r.r.r~~t~~.r~~.r~~~. 
~-~~ 
~ ~ 
~~ ATTENTION ~:: 
~ ~ ~~OTRE DAME & ST MARYS STUDENT~3 
!; PERSONNEL POOL ~$ 
~ ~ 
:; an H&R Block Co ~!~ 
-~ ~~ 
{!will be interviewing on campus for long & short~;~ ~ h ~ 
~~ tenn temporary jobs. We also ave pennanent ~ {; opportunities available. ~ ~~ PERSONNEL POOL has 11 OFF1CES in Chicago ~ ~~and Suburbs. We also have offices through-out~
f.~ • h. ~..,
t.! Ohio, Indiana and M1c 1gan. ~ ~~ Please visit our recruiters at Madeleva Hall in ~ ~~ front of Carroll Hall. St. Mary's College ~ '-~ .• 13 1992 ~ 
~! Apn , ~ ~ ~ ~~ 9:00 am to 4:00 nm JZ {t~~..u~~'1j.~_.-....~~~~~~·~·~·~·t·~~···· 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30, 9:45 
JA, ...... ..................................................................................................................._________________________ 
~~~·~~·~..­
Golf teams look to capitalize on strong practices 
By MIKE HOBBES Sports Writer 
The men's and women's golf teams are headed into competition this weekend following one of the most suitable weeks of weather this semester. 
The women's team i$ headed to Peoria, Ill., to play in the Bradley Invitational. This weekend is the lone tourney where they will be allowed to travel with six members ofthe squad. 
Making the trip are senior captain Allison Wojnas, junior Kathy Phares, sophomores Crissy Klein, Alicia Murray, and Denise Paulin, and freshman Katie Cooper. 
The Irish are searching for good play and strong perfor­mances from the team mem­bers. 
"This week we have worked on our short game a lot. I think we have a strong bid to win this tournament if we play decent and the weather doesn't hinder our performance," stated coach Tom Hanlon. 
The men's team is headed to Bloomington, Ind. to compete in the Indiana University InvitationaL Traveling for the Irish are seniors Mike O'Connell and Mike Crisanti, juniors Chris Dayton and Joe Dennon, and freshman Chris O'Connell. 
Coming off of a good week's practice, the team is looking towards further improvement. 
"The weather this past week has been awesome. This great weather has helped us along in our improvements in preparing for our first real tournament." said team captain Mike O'Connell. 
The moderate weather has allowed the team to pra~tice each day in preparation for this tournament and their competition, a field of predominantly Big Ten and Big Eight teams. 
Pl.ease recycle this paper 
Thank 
you 

page 18 The Observer Friday, April 1 0,1992 
jlllll--.. ...----------------------~­
Women's tennis hits road to face LSU Doubles could be key for Irish against 22nd-ranked Tigers 
By JASON KELLY LSU will create enough prob­"South Alabama is a decent Sports Writer lems. team," Louderback said. "Our doubles play will be a "They're really strong at the 
After an easy win over key," Louderback added. "It top, but I think they drop off at Western Michigan to close out could be tied after singles, so the bottom, so we should be their home schedule, the Notre doubles will be important." able to win those matches." Dame women's tennis team hits That was one area that was Consistency throughout the the road again this weekend to shaky earlier in the season, but singles lineup has carried the face Louisiana State and South Louderback shuffled the lineups Irish recently, and if they hope Alabama in Baton Rouge. and they have been improving to close out the season on a 
Only three matches remain in ever since. winning note, they will have to a season that has been full of The number-one team of Lisa continue their stellar play. ups and downs. After a 3-1 Tholen and Christy Faustmann Tholen has been nearly un­start, the Irish lost seven of has beaten some of the nation's beatable at number four sin­their next ten matches to drop top teams and they proved their gles, winning 17 of her last 18 to 6-8. Since then, however, dominance again on Tuesday matches to improve her record they have won three of four, in­with a 6-3, 6-0 win over to 23-5. cluding an upset of 17th-ranked Western Michigan's senior cap­Kansas, and head to Louisiana tains Amy McClure and Shanan Junior Melissa Harris has also with a 9-9 mark. Condon. been impressive at the number­
Tomorrow at 2 p.m., the Irish one singles spot and her 30 face 23rd-ranked LSU, who The pairing of Eniko Bende victories leads the team. they haven't beaten in two at­and Laura Schwab at number With three matches remain­
-
tempts. Last season at Notre two and the senior tandem of ing, the Irish are hoping to con­Dame, the Irish dropped a 6-2 Katie Clark and Kristy Doran tinue their streak through their decision to the Tigers. have solidified the doubles final match next Wednesday at lineup. Michigan. "We're going to have to play Sunday's opponent, South "We've won two in a row," awfully well against LSU," Irish Alabama, won't pose as big a Louderback commented, "and coach Jay Louderback said. threat as the Tigers, but the now we are just concerned with "We've been outdoors all week Irish will not have an easy road winning our final three so that shouldn't be a problem." to victory. matches." 

Cricket club begins 132nd year at Illinois 
REGATIA T-SHIRTS
By JOSEF EVANS 
Sports Writer 

Here's a trivia question for 
you-name the oldest sport at 
Notre Dame. 
Football? Nope. 

ON SALE 
Baseball? Not a chance. 
Try cricket. 

When the Notre Dame Cricket 
Club takes to the pitch this 
Saturday at the University of 
NDH/SDH AT DINNER
Illinois at Champaign, it will 
mark the 132nd year since the 
first team represented the 
school. 

Though the sport eventually 
THURS&FRI 
disappeared from the campus, 
it was re-founded last year 
when some of the students in 
the London Program developed 
an appreciation for the game 
and decided to bring it back to 
Notre Dame. 

It was not an easy going for 
them, though, as the club found 
that a long layoff from compe­
tition can make for a rough 
season, finishing with an 0-4 
record. 

Not surprisingly, many of the 
club's members are from for­
eign countries where cricket is 
the national sport, such as 
India or Pakistan. 

Freshman Paul Pribaz, him­self a native Australian, noted that most Americans do not and probably will not ever have much of an interest in the game. 
"The glory of the game is that it takes five days to play," said Pribaz. "I don't think it'll ever catch on here." 
Indeed, in the country with the world's shortest attention span, cricket is not bound to catch fire anytime soon. However, the game the club plays is a shortened version, which campus fans may find to be a bit more to their liking. 
"It's called a limited-over 
PROCEEDS GO TO THE
game, and it's a more exciting version," commented Pribaz. 
This year will also mark the first time sanctioned matches 
MEGHAN BEELER/COLLEEN HIPP
appear on campus in 100 years, as the team will face the Bears Cricket Club from Chicago on May 9 and Purdue on the newly built pitch on 
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
White Field North. 


------------------~---------------------~ ~--~---~---------------------------------------------------~----------~--------~--~--~ 
Today 
Friday, April 10,1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  CROSSWORD  
... AND THEN I'LL SHoV£ MY FooT IN YOUR MOUTH, YANK OUT YDU R NGU£ AND TIE IT UP IN A Bl&7 DDUBL£ KNOT~  How TO KE:E: P Your<. s~oES IN  

BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I-I£XI TIME, l'Ll SQ\JIRI 11-\t.lo\ Bailrt WIll-\ M'( ~\t.R I?PTTLE. 

C) Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-6 ACROSS 44 Haphazard 
13-out a 11ving 45 Imitated 18 Hollywood's ­I Arabian ruler 46 Demolish Walsh 
5 Helmet part 47 Twain character 23 Close to 10 Identical 50 Sheet music term 24 Reject 14 Cod or Horn 51 Federal figure 25 Otherwise called 
15 Pygmy antelope (abbr.) 26 Ventures 16 Journey 54 Poisonous snakes 27 Troop encampment 17 Pertaining to 55 Improve 28 -section
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPIN JOHN MONKS 58 Brake part 29 Curved 19 Anger 59 Car need 30 Harmonize 20 Yoko-60 Dr. Frankenstein's 31 A Beatle 
21 Skin ailment aide 32 Bottomless pit 22 Works with dough 61 Take care of 34 Well-known 24 Former TV Bishop 62 Live 37 Preside over 25 On the ocean 63 Hand: Sp. 
acting 

38 Wine's partner 26 "Julius Caesar" 40 Cheat conspirator DOWN 
41 Toy musical 29 Moorish palace instrument in Granada 1 Reverberate 43 Passed, as time 
33 Coral island 2 Water pipe 44 Bigot 34-Tuck 3 ----facto 46 Functions 35 Women's -4 Soak 
47 Bygone 36 Talk wildly 5 Expresses 48 1968 tennis champ 37 South American 6 Literary device 49 Word in fairy parrot 7 Tri gonomet ric tale beginning 38 Gainsay ratio 50 Prefix for meter 39 Prefix for gram 8 Japanese sash 51 Tale or graph 9 Oriental carriage 52 English prep 40 Cupolas 10-of con-school 41 Old Testament sciousness 53 Fiddler of old book 11 Operatic solo 56 Cowboy Tom ­42 Shut off 
12 Merge or blend 57 Basketball hoop 
"Holy cow! What's goHen Into our La-Z-Boy?" "Hank, you know the rule about thongs." 
LECTURES 

•
p r1ncess Bride
COLLEGIATE JAZZ 
8:30 & 10:00 Thursday, April 9th
FESTIVAL 
JFK

APRIL 10-11th • STEPAN CENTER 
8:00

FRIDAY SESION I Begins at 7:30pm 
Friday, April lOth
Student Tickets $4 
Saturday, April 11th
SATURDAY SESSION U Begins at 1:00pm 
Student Tickets $2 
Cushing Auditorium
SATURDAY SESSION UI Begins at 7:30pm 
Admission $2.00
Student Tickets $1 
STUDENT TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
-·· 


... 



JASON KELLY 
And now a word from... 

Orioles Park a throwback to good ol' days 
Gone are the days of Ebbets Field and the Polo Grounds. 
However. a new era began this week in Baltimore with the opening of Oriole Park. a glorious new stadium that will awaken the ghosts of the great baseball stadiums of the past. 
More and more domes and all-purpose
... 
stadiums have popped up around the major leagues in the last three decades and baseball has suffered through the changes. 
Toronto's Sky Dome, the Astrodome in Houston. the Metrodome in Minneapolis and the Kingdome in Seattle are only four examples of the ugly green carpet and climate control that is erasing the word tradition from the baseball dictionary. 
It is only 72 degrees in hell. 
But finally, an organization has created a new stadium that recalls baseball's original stomping grounds. 
Baltimore's new 48,000-seat faeility has drawn comparisons to the old Comiskey Park in Chicago and Boston's storied Fnnway Park. among others. 
Baltimore pitcher Hick Sutcliffe, who stopped CleVPland with a live-hit shutout on opening day in the new brick bHauty, says tlw upper deck along the left-field line reminds him of the old Comiskey. And the right-liPid fence, only 319 feet from the plat!~. reac~hes 25 feet into the sky, not unlike the fabled "Green MonstPr" at FPnway. 
Those comparisons aside, the Orioles will haw~ to continue the tradition of their own former ballparks. llall-of-Famers Brooks Hobinson. Frank Robinson and Jim Palmer called the old Memorial Stadium home, and Sportsman's Park, whieh closed its doors in 1953, will go down in history as the place where midget Eddie Gaede! stepped to the plate. 
Oriole Park. however. will not only evoke mnmories of the great stadiums of the past, but it is a fitting atmosphere for '90s legend Cal Hipken, .Jr. to break Lou Gehrig's 60-year-old streak for consm:utive games played. 
Aside from the asymmetrical outfield fence and the natural grass, Oriole Park also boasts one of the great backdrops in major league baseball. The Baltimore skyline rises above the old-time center­field scoreboard, shaming the jumbo screens and luxury boxes found in many major league stadiums today. 
Approaching the stadium on game day is enough to get any baseball fan's juices flowing. The brick, arched facade will make the old-timers remember the great days gone by and give the youngsters a taste of the past. 
No stadium erected in the last 30 years has done so much to pass baseball's tor~h on to the next generation of fans. 
But Baltimore hasn't cured baseball's disease. Legendary Tiger Stadium is on its last legs and it could be the next to face the 
see ORIOLES/page 14 
'-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
• 
INSIDE SPORTS 

•women's tennis travels to 22nd-ranked LSU 
page 18 

•Baseball opens MCC season hosting Evansville 
page 17 

•Track teams head to Dogwood Relays 
page 19 

L-----------------------------~ 
Sports 
page 20 Friday, April 10,1992 

No. 22 Irish hope to extend three-game win streak 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

Who could have imagined that after starting the season 1-3, the Notre Dame lacrosse team would be nationally ranked and thinking NCAA tournament bid? 
Yet, that is where the Irish stand as they prepare 
to face Mount St. Mary's Saturday. 
Notre Dame is the winm~r of three straight, a list which includes wins over Hofstra and Ohio­Wesleyan, and climbed into the national rankings , for the first time this season. The USIIA poll has Irish standing in 22nd after raising their 
record to 5-3 on the season. 
The last time Notre Dame lacrosse earned a national ranking was in 1990, when then second­year coach Kevin Corrigan directed Notre Dame to thB NCAA tournament. 
To keep that ranking, Notre Dame must coi1tinue its consistent play against Mt. St. Mary's. 
The Mountaineers are an experienee-laden team, with a balanced offensive attack. Senior Charlie Horning is high point man for the Mount, totaling forty points on the year, highlighted by a team-high 21 goals. Junior midfielder Dave Gorelick also ranks high on Mt. St. Mary's point list, tallying twenty-six on the season. 
"They are a very patient team, and I think that is what they do best," said Corrigan. "They are well­coached and well-disciplined. 
Despite the impressive numbers, the Irish defense should have little trouble stopping the 
' Mount. The improved play from the goal keeping 
duo of Chris Parent and Ryan Jewell has solidified 
the play of the defense. 
In the past three games the Irish have allowed only nineteen goals, which includes three scoreless quarters. 
"I think it is a little game of give and take." commented Corrigan. "The rest of the defense is 
see LACROSSE/page 16 

Fisher provides senior leadership for SMC track 
By CHRIS BACON improved her running but cided to focus on track. didn't think she was ready Sports Writer has improved as a person," However, collegiate sports for collegiate competition, said Belles head coach Larry still did not come easy for but she was determined to Determining the star ath­Szczechowski her. After one week of prac­stay with it. She admits she 
letes on a team sometimes is Unlike most track athletes, tice, Fisher quit the team. asked Szczechowski not to not as obvious as it may Fisher has not trained very "I never ran farther than run her in the competitions, seem. long. After being dared to three miles in my whole life," but she's glad that he did. 
Real team leaders are not join her high school basket­she said. "There was a Since that first year, Fisher just the ones who rack up ball team, Fisher again fol­woman coach for the long has improved tremendously outstanding individual lowed her friends advice in distance runners and on the in the 1500 meters, cutting statistics, but the individual her junior year and ran first day she told us to go out her time by almost two who encourages the team to track. and run five miles. I said, minutes. perform excellently. "I joined the basketball 'What do you mean five Her sophomore year was 
The Saint Mary's track team because I was told, miles?"' her biggest season. Working team has one such long dis­'You're so tall, you should "At the time jt might have with a new long distance tance athlete. play basketball,"' explained seemed like a long distance coach who took the time to 
Senior Sharon Fisher, while Fisher. "I had never played to her. Now five miles to her help her improve her stride not tallying high points at basketball before in my life. is a drop in the bucket," and form, Fisher was able to each track meet, has truly All the girls on the basketball added Szczechowski. "If you cut 30 seconds off her time. motivated the team with her team went out for track, so take a look at how far she's Success continued into her enthusiasm-particularly the they told me to go out for it progressed in the last few junior year as Fisher broke younger distance runners. with them." years, it's amazing. She's the school record in the in­
"I'm really happy that she's When Fisher came to Saint gone from a leisurely runner door 1500 (5:38.6). Since been on our program these Mary's, she tried out for the to a competitor." then, the record has been four years. It's nice to see basketball team, but didn't Fisher returned to the broken twice by freshman someone who's not only make it. After that, she de-track the next week. She 
see FISHER/page 15 

The Observer/John Bingham Senior attackman Mike Sullivan (shown here vs. Denison) needs only six more points to become the all-time leading scorer in Notre Dame history. His 126 points trails only Joe Franklin (131 ). 
.. 



