The Observer
VOL. XXV NO. 114 THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senators named; Off-campus elections Friday AIDS virus 
has 'latent' period 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The AIDS virus can hide for years in lymph nodes before launching a fmal, lethal attack on its vic­tims, scientists report in a new finding that shows the disease is never idle. The discovery may lead to earlier treatment for patients. 
Two studies to be published Thursday in the journal Nature show that once a person is in­fected, the AIDS virus can con­gregate in lymphoid organs, such as the tonsils, spleen, adenoids and lymph nodes, where it steadily infects key blood cells and breaks downDistrict 3. He had also been an for today's off-campus elections, cells that filter out viruses. 
uncontested candidate until the and"we hope that there will be Eventually, the filter cells inday of the election when he was as much interest in the run-off," the lymph organs are destroyedchallenged by a write-in candi­said election committee co­
date. "I ran a clean and legal president Andrea Sullivan. and infected blood cells spill 
campaign and am glad to see out into the body's circulation 
that people appreciated that," Voting forthe off-campus run­system, leading to a collapse of 
said Sullivan. off election will be at the the immune system, the classic 
LaFortune Student Center from sign of the lethal stage of AIDS. "There was a high turn out 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Friday. · The researchers said the findings show that drugs must be found to combat the AIDS

best dorm on campus 
virus from the moment of di­agnosis and that therapy can­
Pangborn Hall alive and begin worked to sponsor such building excellence, community, activities as the "Snap-a Scam" not be relaxed during periods and spirit, she added. and the upcoming "Price is when there are no symptoms. 
Right" fundraiser, Bambrick Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of 
"We have done things typical said. the National Institute of Allergy of other halls, but the fact that "Everyone, including the hall and Infectious Diseases and a we pulled together to sponsor staff and our rector have co-author of one of the studies, some new things during our worked to make it the best 
said the discovery answers one first year has helped to make women's dorm during our first of the key mysteries about thePangborn Hall a success," she year, and it has really paid off," 
course of the AIDS virus
said. she said. 
disease.
Over a hundred eager 
Fauci said that many patientsfreshman and approximately 40 HPC accepted essays of appli­infected with HIV, the virus thatwomen who transferred from cation from all dorms, and the 
causes AIDS. experience an
other campus dorms helped to winner was selected by the HPC kick off the year in Pangborn executive committee, Ravry initial bloom of virus particles Hall, according to Katie said. Pangborn Hall co­in their blood, a condition Bambrick, Pangborn Hall co­presidents Katie Bambrick and called viremia, within weeks of president. Anne LaFleur wrote the win­exposure. But then traces of 
Pangborn has been active in ning essay describing why virus disappear from blood several service oriented projects Pangborn exemplifies Notre tests and patients often live and members of the hall have Dame spirit. 
see AIDS I page 4 


By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 
There will be a run off elec­tion for off-campus co-presi­dentson Friday between the tickets of McGuire/Lanser and Bulakowskiffoohey. 
The official winners of Wednesday's student senate elections are Erin King of South Quad, Jennifer Halbach of God Quad, Sean Sullivan of North Quad, and Dana Anderson of Mod Quad. 
"We're just gong to keep re­minding people to be sure to vote on Friday," Kevin McGuire said of the run-off election. "We need to keep reiterating what we want to do for next year." 
The McGuire/Lanser ticket captured 40 percent of the vote while Bulakowski/Toohey landed 34 percent of the vote. Today's election reduced the number of tickets running from four to two. 
"I am very excited to have re­ceived this position and am ready to do the best job that I can," said Dana Anderson from 

Pangborn chosen as 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
For its outstanding service, spirit, enthusiasm and dedica­tion to the Notre Dame campus, Pangborn Hall was awarded "Dorm of the Year," by the Hall 
.. ·: ::· :: :-,· 
f£f~~~~~~rr~JL~~ser (40%) II
··• :i and Bulkowski!Toohey (34%) 
District 4. Anderson expressed her frustration with being subjected to a late challenge by a write-in ticket. She said she ended up having essentially only one day to campaign. 
"I am looking forward to working on the senate next year," said Sean Sullivan from 

Presidents' Council (HPC). ac­cording to Marianne Ravry, residents and staff have really former HPC co-chair. built a name for themselves." 
Tuesday night HPC honored "Pangborn Hall is comprised Pangborn Hall with a plaque for of a medley of individuals who the annual award recognizing have brought their many gifts the special achievements and from other places," said Kathy redeeming qualities of one Lohmuller, Pangborn Hall rec­campus residence hall, said tor. "The residents have come Ravry. together to form a community 
"Pangborn got off to a slow bond." start with its transformation Many young women from into an all women's dorm this dorms across campus wanted to 
year," said Ravry, "but the continue to keep the tradition of 
Malcom X's widow speaks on the role of women, youth 

The Observer/ Michelle DiRe Dr. Betty Shabazz, the wife of Malcolm X, lectures yesterday at Stepan Center on the "Status of Blacks and Women in Today's Society." Following her lecture, Shabaaz held a press conference in the Center for Continuing Education and a reception and book signing in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
have proper training and edu-dates you then you must vali-We must all strive for a world cation opportunities open to date yourself." where everyone possesses the them." "Women must not al-"You must develop an ethos," "right to believe in your ethnic low themselves to be abused," Shabazz told the audience. group and not be called a she continued. "Women must "Young people must develop a hater," she concluded. understand that if no one vali-purpose in life." 
By BRIAN SEILER 
News Writer 
Dr. Betty Shabazz, the widow of Malcom X, told young people today they need to work together to change the conditions of the world. 
"What we all need to under­stand is that all humans are equally endowed with dignity," she said in a guest lecture at Stepan Center . 
Shabazz spoke on th'e topic of "Blacks and Women in Today's Society," but said, ''I'm supposed to talk about blacks and women, but really we can talk about people and take care of everything." 
All people, by the fact that they are human, have the rights to "dignity, options, and opportunity," she said. The young people of today must en­sure these three rights because "we are our brother's keeper," she said. 
"We need people to lead us and support us sovereignly into the future," Shabazz added. 

The change must start with individuals, Shabazz continued, for "if change is to come, it must come through people. We have to be the gatekeepers and we have to change," she said. 
Personal change involves self­reflection and realizing personal validity and concen­trating on reliability, she said. 
"We are where we are be­cause of us," she quoted from Malcom X. 
Education is the key to end­ing racism, she said. "We have institutionalized racism, and we need to dissolve it." Another part of ending racism involves equal employment opportuni­ties, she said. 
"Affirmative action is only a tool, while the goal is equal employment opportunities" she said. All concerned young peo­ple should review Affirmative Action documents and human rights documents, she added. 
"Women should have experi­ence in political activity," Shabazz said. "They should 

page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Han, Luke, and 
me: Star Wars Remembered 
"A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away ... " 

So begins The Star Wars Saga, and a generation is forever changed. we are Star Bill Rosemann Wars babies. and George Accent Columnist Lucas is our grandfather. We were blessed to be-------­given the modern fairy tale on the big screen. We saw magical twins united, and a young prince defeat his corrupted king. and a galaxy saved in an interstellar epic. My childhood was filled with the glow of clashing lightsabers, the howls of wookiees, and the power of the Force. 

Han Solo was the coolest scoundrel alive and the only cowboy I ever wanted to be. In his prime, this Corellian smuggler could do the Kessel Run in 12 parsecs, blow away Greedo without twitching, and woo a princess. 
Luke Skywalker, in the first film, was a whining dork. "But Uncle Oooowen, I was going into Tashi station to pick up some pooower converters." Who would believe that by the third installment, Luke would stride into Jabba's stronghold a complete badass? 
Darth Vader, the Dark Lord of the Sith, still haunts my dreams. In the third grade I won a costume contest with a home made Vader suit which featured a handcrafted life support system box-thing on my chest. But how could someone with an aura so fearsome have, under his helmet, a head that looked like a Weeble? 
The Star Wars figures and toys by Kenner were the grandest things ever forged of plastic. The trash compactor (with the little monster and Nerf garbage peices) of the Death Star play station was without an equal. I always wanted the tie-fighter with pop off wings, but I did have the landspeeder (with little wheels on the bottom to simulate hovering). 
Through the years the Saga never left me. Alex Nunez, my next door neighbor, and I wake each other up every morning with Chewbacca wookiee bellows. The night before the Snow Day of '93, I dragged Alex from his bed at one o'clock into the untouched snow to act out every scene from "Empire" featuring the ice planet Hoth. The highlight of the excursion occurred when I was teaching Alex how to be a Taun­Taun and a lone female came by and asked us, "Are you two all right?" 
Is it just me or is the DeBartolo building actually Cloud City? I walk through the halls waiting for a pig-like Ugnaught to scurry by clutching C-3PO's head. Whenever I'm in a boring class, I pray to hear over the intercom: "This is Lando Calrissian, the Empire has just taken control of the city. I advise anyone to leave before more Imperial troops arrive. As Billy Dee Williams. I also suggest you relax with a nice cold glass of Colt 45." 
I salute all those who possesses the knowledge of the Saga that would impress a Jedi. Author's note: Thanks to Jim Sheily, who acted as my complete Star Wars reference source and can speak nuently with Chewbacca, Greedo, or Jabba the Hutt. 
May the Force be with you-always. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Lab Tech  
Bevin Kovalik  Macy Hueckel  
Emily Hage  
Viewpoint  




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Francois Mitterand's term in question 
•PARIS -The first crack appeared Wednesday in the right-wing alliance poised to take power as rival conservatives with their sights on the presidency bick­ered over whether Francois Mitterrand should quit the post now. Paris Mayor Jacques Chirac wants the Social­ist president out next week. Former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing said Mitterrand ought to serve out the last two years of his term. Each is calculating on when he has the best chance of succeeding the 76-year-old president, who will likely face an overwhelmingly rightist and hostile National Assembly after run-off elections Sunday. Mitterrand's party, in power for 10 of the past 12 years, is being turned out by an electorate fed up with high unemployment and seemingly endless scandals. 

Bil~ Graham completes crusade 
•E SEN, Germany -Evangelist 
Billy Graham this week completed his -~-· most far-reaching crusade, transmitted from here by satellite to more than 1,400 centers across Europe with attendance totaling 8.2 million. Of these, about 250,000 responded to Graham's invitation to accept Christ. The five-day crusade, translated in various languages and described as reaching the largest audience in Graham's 50 years of ministry, also went to sites in former communist countries. It was Graham's first 


OF INTEREST 

•The 
Alumni Association is now accepting job appli­cations for summer jobs during Reunion '93 (June 3­June 6) and Alumni Family Hall (May 30-August 8). Applications are available in Room 201, Main Building. The deadline is April 1. 

•Visions 
#8 is now accepting stories for a possible publication. All entries must be typed, submitted in triplicate (3 copies), contain the name and address on removable front cover sheet. Please submit by April 1 at 4 p.m., to the English Department, 356 O'Shaugnessy. There will be a cardboard box marked Revisions. For more information, contact Professor O'Rourke at 1­7377. 


MARKET UPDATE 

Thursday, March 25, 1993 
28 Nashville 60 42 New York 40 37 Paris 52 37 Philadelphia 47 40 Rome 63 46 Seanle 52 36 South Bend 56 42 Tokyo 61 48 Washington. D.C. 61 43 

crusade in Germany since the Berlin Wall came down in 1989. 
NATIONAL 

Bo~ Scouts exclude homosexuals 
•e ULDER, Colo. -;i'he Police Department won't start a Boy Scout Explorer program because the Scouts' refusal to allow homosexuals violates the city's anti­discrimination policy. "They don't allow gays so that's that," Police Chief Thomas Koby said. The Scout programs allow men and women between ages 14 and 21 to explore various career fields. Police Department sponsorship had been suggested by several officers who had been through Explorer programs. Boulder is one of three Colorado cities with gay-rights policies. 
INDIANA 


Indiana to test tornado sirensJoday ______ _ 
•NOTRE 
DAME, Ind.-Indiana will conduct a statewide test of the weather alarm system on March 25, 1993 as part of Tornado Preparedness Week (March 22-26). This test will take place between 10 and 11 a.m.. The St. Joseph County Civil Defense Office will sound the tornado sirens at the appropriate time. The following actions are to be followed when a tornado warning sounds. Take shelter in the nearest substantial building imediately. Avoid windows, auditoriums and gyms. Go to the basement or to an interior corridor or closet. If you are in a car, pull off street and set the brakes then seek the nearest substantial building. If time does not permit, lie flat in a ravine or ditch. 

•A 
Gilligan's Island Dinner will take place at North and South Dining Halls Friday from 4:45-6:45 p.m. Any­one who dresses like a Gilligan's Island character is eli­gible for a drawing for a $10 coupon book. 

•Feast 
of the Annunciation Mass will be held at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 5:15 p.m. Father Regis Duffy will preside, and the Notre Dame Women's Choir will provide music. Vespers will be held in the Lady Chapel at 4:30 p.m. 

•Marketers, 
advertisers, and artists. Applications for SUB marketing executives and artists are now available outside the SUB office on the 2nd noor of LaFortune Student Center. The deadline is April 1 at 5 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1634: Maryland was founded by English colonists sent by the second Lord Baltimore. 

• 
In 1957: The Treaty of Rome established the European Economic Community, also known as the Common Market. 

• 
In 1965: The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. led 25,000 marchers to the state capitol in Montgomery, Ala., to protest the denial of votingrights to blacks. 

• 
In 1975: King Faisal of Saudi Arabia was shot to death by a nephew with a history of mental illness. 

• 
In 1990: 87 people, most of them Honduran and Dominican immigrants, were killed when fire raced through an illegal social club in New York. 


Production 
Melissa Cusack Susan Marx 

Sports 
Jonathan Jensen 


Graphics 
Ann-Marie Conrado 

Lynn Bauwens Rolando DeAguiar 

Accent 
Mara Divis Steve Jankovich Lynn Bauwens 




YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 24 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 231,870,304 ·0.35 to 246.91 S&P COMPOSITE -0.69 to 448.07 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -16.48 to 3445.38

UNCHANGED 609 


GOLD + $.40 to $332.70 oz. 
SILVER + $0.032 to $3.678 oz. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Report shows rights violations 
By JOHN LUCAS Assistant News Editor 
Despite the submission of a recent report detailing thou­sands of atrocities to the United Nations, full accountability for El Salvadoran human rights vi­olations is unlikely, according to Margaret Crahan, Henry Luce Professor of Religion, Power and Political Process at Occidental College in Los Ange­les. 
Although last year's peace settlement and establishment of a "Truth Committee" in El Salvador to enumerate and un­cover evidence of gross human rights violations was a strong step toward accountability, little can be done to bring the guilty to trial, according to Crahan, who spoke yesterday at the 7th annual gathering of the Arch­bishop Romero lecture series. 
"There was initially some 
reticence to testify by individu­
als and human rights organi­zations," Crahan said. "Those who were long silent, overcame fear and pressures to keep in silence and trusted the committee." 
The Committee examined cases of human rights abuses by the El Salvadoran govern­ment and the revolutionary guerrilla group, the Farabundo Marti Liberation Front (FMLN). The committee and staff han­dled 7,000 cases on a first hand basis, while it relied on second hand sources for 18,000 more cases. The El Salvadoran gov­ernment admitted the need to investigate only 50 cases, ac­cording to Crahan. 
Those cases investigated in­volved the assassinations, dis­appearances and massacres of El Salvadoran civilians by the El Salvadoran military, "death squads" and FMLN guerillas, Crahan said. 
The Truth Committee pro­duced an 800 page report which printed the names of 
Don't forget: March is energy conservation month 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
Stefanic! 
Love, Aimee, AnneMarie, Carrie, Colleen, and Nikki. 
principal violators. The report was released in El Salvador and then submitted to United Na­tions Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on March 15, according to Crahan. 
"The possibility of legal justice is scant. That's why the naming of names is so important... It is critical that the report named people. It is impossible to comprehend what it means to the families of the victims," she said. 
Trying to prove that many abuses were planned, and not simply random violence, the Truth Committee paid particu­lar attention to the disappear­ances, which reached a peak of several hundred people per month, in 1981, according to Crahan. 
"The disappearances exem­plify systematic patterns in gross human rights violations," she said. 
The United States government 
has been a major hindrance to 
the committee, failing to 
produce needed documents and 
information, according to 
Crahan. 

"The failure of the Pentagon, 
FBI, CIA, and Defence Intelli­
gence Agency to produce doc­
uments was seen as the United 
States having something to 
cover up. Congress has ordered 
hearings to expedite the role of 
the U.S. in the Spring of 1993," 
she explained. 
"The U.S. did eventually co­
operate, but not at the expected 
level...The hearings, scheduled 
for May, bring new light to in­
formation, especially about the 
role of highly placed officials." 
In El Salvador, the people and 
government must move toward 
reform, according to Crahan. 
Steps toward reform include 
removing those guilty of 
violations from office, re­
forming the judiciary, solidify­
ing rule by law, and a national 
reconciliation. 
Gain va ua e wor experience ing a position with the Student Business Board Help run an organization with sales of nearly $100,000 per year! 
The Business Board is responsible for the operations of the Three Student Run Business: 
Irish Gardens Adworks Notre Dame Video 
Applications for General Manager (Seniors to be) will be due 
on Friday, March 26. Applications for Assistant General 
Manager (Juniors to be) will be due on Friday, April2. 
All applications can be picked up in the Student Government 
office on the 2nd floor in LaFortune. Interviews will follow. 
?'s, please call Matt Cenedella at 631,3504. 

~-~ ---~---­
page3 
The Observer/ Pat McHugh 

Straight from Ireland 
Garrett Fitzgerald, the former prime minister of Ireland, speaks yesterday afternoon in the Library Auditorium about the effects on Ireland with regard to other European countries. 
Texaco Foundation grants $150,000 for fellowships 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $150,000 grant from the Texaco Foundation for graduate and undergraduate scholarships in its Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control (CBPC). 
"Support for undergraduate and graduate students is the University's top fundraising priority," said University presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. "We are especially appreciative of the Texaco Foundation's as­sistance with this urgent need." 
According to Carl Davidson, president of the Texaco Foun­dation, "This grant is in line with the Texaco Foundation's longstanding support for quality education. It also strengthens our association with an in­stitution which provides the company with its most valuable resource -our employees." 
The Texaco grant will support two graduate and three under­graduate fellowships for CBPC students over a three year pe­riod, starting in 1993. 
Texaco's technical liason with the CBPC is Dr. Robert Gipson, director of refining and fuels for the company's research and development office in Port Arthur, Texas. 
Established in 1987, the CBPC is a cooperative project of Notre Dame's colleges of science and engineering to expand its environmental engineering program. 
One of the most respected programs in the country, it continues a tradition of environmental research at Notre Dame that began in the 1950's. 
Growing environmental consciousness around the nation has touched off increased interest in envrionmental studies at most major universities. 
Coordinating the disciples of engineering, microbiology, biochemistry, physical chemistry, mathematics, and physics, it has attracted more than $11 million in funding while developing pollution control technologies. 
The 29 projects in which the CBPC is currently engaged include development of periodic processes for wastewater treat­ment, waste reduction efforts and bio-meditation techniques. 
Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Artifacts found on Alaskan hilltop 

The Observer/ Pat McHugh 
The real world 

Paul Reynolds, associate director of Notre Dame Career and Placement Services, advises juniors yesterday on the most efficient way to begin searching for jobs after graduation. 
AIDS 
continued from page 1 
without HIV symptoms for up to 10 years. Eventually, there is another explosion of viremia, usually followed by death from some opportunistic infection. 
"Since there was little virus in the blood, it was a puzzle why this process inevitably progressed and occurred," Fauci said. "The bottom line of the study is that this virus is present in the lymph nodes ... and it is actively repli­cating ... even when there is little or no virus activity detected in the blood." 
In effect, said Fauci, the pe­riod that doctors call the latent or symptomless stage of the IIIV is not latent at all. The virus is thriving in the lymph nodes and insidiously eroding the body's immune system to­ward a final collapse. 
A second study, co-authored by Dr. Ashley Haase of the Uni­versity of Minnesota, confirmed that HIV thrived in the lym­phoid tissue during the so­called latent period of disease. He said the virus in the lymph nodes was actively infecting lymphocytes, called CD4 T cells, that reside in the lymph nodes or which were passing through. 

CD4 T cells, the so-called "helper T cells" of the immune system, are the principle tar­gets of HIV. The level of these T cells is used as a key marker in the progress of HIV infection. 
Haase said he and his col­leagues found "an extraordi­narily large number" of in­fected CD4 T cells in the lymph tissue. He said only about a tenth of these cellswere capable of growing new virus. Instead, said Haase, these cells seem to act as "a reservoir of infection." 
"I estimate that perhaps as many as 100 billion cells are latently infected at any given time and perhaps a billion cells are productively infected," he said. "I liken it to a constantly erupting volcano ... with latently infected cells feeding the pro­ductively infected ones." 
SYRACUSE ABROAD 

AFRICA • AUSTRALIA • CZECH REPUBLIC • ENGLAND • FRANCE • GERMANY • HUNGARY • ITALY • POLAND • SPAIN 
• 
Prior Foreign Language Not Always Necessary 

• 
SU Credit 


• 
Field Trips/Traveling Seminars 

• 
Internships 


• 
Study For A Semester, A Year, Or A Summer 

• 
Home Or Limited Apartment Plac.'!ments 


FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid A venue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 (315) 443-3471 OR 1-800-235-3472 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP)­Government archaeologists ex­cavating a remote hilltop in northern Alaska said Wednes­day that artifacts and carbon dating showed a camp there may be the oldest inhabited site in North America. 
The find, known as the Mesa Site, was announced by the Bu­reau of Land Management, which oversees the unpopulated region in the Brooks Range, about 400 miles northwest of Anchorage. 
BLM said spear points and wood charcoal from cooking hearths dated to 11,700 years ago, making it the first arctic site linked to paleoindians of the American Southwest. 
The agency also said it had recommended the camp, qear the Nigu and Iteriak rivers, for inclusion on the National Regis­ter of Historic Places. 
Paul Martin, a University of Arizona professor of geo­science, said BLM's discovery "fits" with theories that early Alaskans moved into the American Southwest in as short as 500 years. Paleoindian sites in the lower 48 states date to around 10,000 to 11,000 years ago. 
"It's nice in Alaska to have something a little bit older," Martin said. 
The Mesa Site, within the National Petroleum Reserve, was discovered in 1978 during what BLM called routine ar­chaeology work in connection with oil and gas exploration. 
BLM officials said Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt had begun the process of withdraw­ing the site and 2,500 acres surrounding it from develop­ment, including mineral explo­ration. 
Curtis Wilson, a BLM ar­chaeologist, said researchers had long believed that early people entered the New World over the Bering Strait land bridge and moved south. 
Until the Mesa Site, however, Alaska artifacts were distinct from the sophisticated spear points found in New Mexico and other southwest states. 
Wilson said some spear points like those used by paleoindians had been in Alaska before. But those isolated points found earlier were lying on the surface and removed from other identifying artifacts. 
Wilson said the Mesa Site points, made of rock and about 4 inches long, probably were dropped where they had been found. 
~!:CLUB 

Don't miss Cliff Erickson's annual performances on his national tour. 
This Friday 8 Saturday IO•Z 
Club opens at 9, come early for the best seats. 
mustbe21 


Benefit for Center for the Homeless Senior Bar Thursda~, Mareh 25 
8:30 ·Close Featuring: 
Bughaus Chisel The Remedies Bovine Solution 
must be .ZI 

Graduation 
Student Workers 
Free Room & Board $5.80/Hour May 7-16 
Deadlinefor Housing AprilJst 
South Dining Hall­Lower Level Monday-Friday 10-4 p.m. 
SENIOR 



New leaders emerging in Israel 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Benjamin Netanyahu went into the Likud party's leadership election the overwhelming favorite Wednesday, the first of a new generation of leaders to emerge in the right-wing party and Israeli politics as a whole. 
The 43-year-old Netanyahu, a former deputy foreign minister known for American-style politics and a flair for publicity, was widely expected to take over the chief opposition party after a bruising campaign marred by charges of adultery and blackmail. 
Netanyahu was called an "eel" by his chief rival and onetime boss, former Foreign Minister David Levy. 
Netanyahu hinted that Levy had tried to blackmail him out of the race, forcing Netanyahu into admitting on national tele­vision that he had an extramar­ita! affair. Levy denied the charge. 

It was Likud's first primary to choose a leader, replacing a party committee system, and polls predicted Netanyahu would get more than the 40 percent of the vote needed to win without a runoff. 
Two other candidates were also vying for the job. Ariel Sharon, the controversial hard-line former defense minister, did not enter the Likud race, but said he might challenge the party leader before the next national election in 1996. 
There was little ideological difference among the four ri­vals. All argued that Prime Min­ister Yitzhak Rabin's Labor Party-led government is too soft on Palestinian violence and too conciliatory on territorial compromise in the U.S.-spon­sored peace talks with Arabs. 
In the latest bloodshed, Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian in the occupied West Bank on Wednesday, Arab reports said, and another Palestinian was killed in the oc­cupied Gaza Strip in unclear circumstances. 
The killings brought to 21 Palestinians killed in escalating Arab-Israeli violence since the beginning of March. Eight Is­raelis have also died. 
Netanyahu became known for his polished TV style as Israel's spokesman during the Gulf War. 
• • ,~~.. II 8 IIIJ.II.till~ II ~;~~~~h~~~:::Eh~~ ~:::~1
if'W ~ 'f 'f'fl' fiiJ'-/1 missiles with chemical war-
P b .J heads, which in the end never 
an g 0rn HaII prese nts: c~~~-ut 216,000 Likud mem­
bers were eligible to vote. Polls 
' 

The Price1,o. 
IIJ A '().
I$ Right "'~e.,/ 
to benefit LaCasa de Amistad March 27th, 7 p.m., Library Auditorium Tickets $3 at LaFortune Information Desk 
were open until late Wednes­day, and tallying was expected to stretch into Thursday. 
Netanyahu's other rivals were Benjamin Begin, son of former prime minister and Likud founder Menachem Begin, and Moshe Katzav, who has 11 years of Cabinet experience. 
On Wednesday, the parliament chose Ezer Weizman, an outspoken advocate of making peace with the Arabs and nego­tiating with the PLO, as Israel's seventh president. He was elected 66-53. 
Weizman, 68, the candidate of the Labor Party, is a former fighter pilot and general who started in politics as a hawk but turned dovish in the late 1970s. He takes over the largely fig­urehead post in May. 

multiple hazardous pieces. 
The report scoffed at other suggel:ltions. including smash• ing the. asteroid into smithereens with kinetic en· ergy devices, solar sails or 
. laser. deflections, saying they 
· are eith~r .ineffectual; less de• sir able or>require engineering programs that are unreason" ably expensive. 
The second scientist, David Morrison of NASA's Arries Re'­search Center in California; said the big worry is neither extremely large asteroids ­like the 6~ to 10-mile rock that. wiped out the dinosaurs 65 million years ago -nor small meteorites. 
"Ourpri~ary focus is on im" paet{ofin;termedia~ size," he said. "Projectiles with diame­ters of a few tens of meters up to several kilometers., 
The slll.all debris burns up :in the atlll.osphere. The some" wha(larger asteroids smash into earth ''and explode with the force of the largest nuclear: · explo~ive$;~ Morrisqll:;said. He. gave lt.S· a.n examj>le<the 1908 Tunguska airburst explosion :in, Siberia, which is estimated to 
. have· released lO to 20 mega· . tons pfallergy. !(\: li\ r .•....•.. 
"Such'impacts c9uld devas• 
· tate a large city,'' Morrison said. "J<ortuna.tely,·. boweve~ '
1 1llostE~upn iJl1P~~~~ will ~~.•~·•·· 
strike m.d~nsely poj>ul!).ted at'~ eas ofthe world." 
The most recent near-miss was l~tyea.rwneri,Jhe 1· to~-•••. mile ~~de·..•asterqid Toutatjs• came Wtthin 2.2 million miles of Earth. a hair-thin margin iii: celestial terms. If it had hit, it w<mld bf!,ve blotted out the sunlight !llld all plants woUld havedi.ed, 

N 0 TR E DAME CLASS OF 1994 
Applications are now available for next year's Senior Advisory Council at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor of LaFortune) 
Positions include: Senior Month Chairperson Fundraising Commissioner 
Service Commissioner (2) Social Commissioner ( 2) Publicity Commissioner • LaFayette Square Representative • Castle Point Representative 
•Campus 
View Representative 

•Turrle 
Creek Representative 


•Oak Hill Representative Applications are due March 31, 1993 
• All off... campus representatives must be living at that location next year. 

THE noTRE DAmE FAffiiL Y 1/ InVITED.•. 


The Observer/ Pat McHugh 
Secret ballot 

St. Edward's Hall junior Ken Lyons works the voting desk for yesterday's student senate elections as sophomores Mike Drendel and Bill Brennan (left to right) cast their ballots. 
Serbian shelling wounds refugees 
TUZLA, Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) U.N. helicopters swooped into besieged Sre­brenica to 11y refugees to safety Wednesday, but the operation was halted after Serbs shelled some of the refugees as they waited in a soccer stadium. 
The attack killed one person and injured 21, including two Canadian peacekeepers, U.N. officials said. They said 29 people, including the U.N. sol­diers, were flown out before 11ights were stopped. 
In New York. U.N. Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali deplored the casualties and called for an immediate halt to the shelling. Brigadier Hoddy Curdy-Simpson, the chief of staff of the U.N. force in Bosnia. called the attack "the ultimate in despicable behavior." 
Bosnian Serb military com­manders issued a statement accusing the United Nations of trying to infiltrate soldiers into Srebrenica to "save Muslim criminals who committed genocide against the Serb pop­ulation." It also accused U.N. soldiers of firing at Serb posi­tions to provoke shelling. 
Hadovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader who ap­proved the U.N. flights, also said that Serb forces were not responsible. He accused Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment of firing at the landing site. then blaming it on the Serbs. 
The shelling of the landing zone and also the Tuzla airport, where the helicopters are based, called into question Karadzic's assurances that corridors would be opened to evacuate Srebrenica. Many such promises by Bosnian Serb political leaders have been ig­nored by their military forces. 
Bosnian Serb militiamen ap­pear intent on capturing Sre­brenica, where tens of thou­sands of Muslims are trapped and being shelled. 

If Srebrenica fell. the Muslim­dominated Tuzla region, home to more than 700,000 people, could be the next target of a relentless Serb drive that has taken more than 70 percent of Bosnia's territory since the war began 11 months ago over the republic's secession from Yugoslavia. 
U.N. officials have said they hope to establish a permanent presence in Srebrenica as a de­terrent. The U.N. commander in Bosnia. Gen. Philippe Morillon of France, is trying to get Serb leaders to open air and road corridors that would allow free movement of people and humanitarian supplies. 
The 29 refugees flown out of Srebrenica included women, children. and wounded men. 
U.N. peacekeepers had said be­fore the operation was halted that they hoped to remove as many as 300 ill people in the next few days. 
Maj. Martin Waters, a British peacekeeper, said the Serbs concentrated artillery fire on the Srebrenica soccer field as the wounded were assembled for evacuation. 
-ELLEN-
Hope You had a great 19th Birthday! 
Love Mom, Dad & Honey 
Russian power struggle sways between leaders 
MOSCOW (AP) -Hussia veered between confrontation and compromise Wednesday, and President Boris Yeltsin and his legislative opponents ended up no closer to resolving their power struggle. 
The fierce arguments in Moscow reverberated across Hussia. Cossacks offered to form a presidential guard to de­fend Yeltsin and declared self­rule in their southern Don re­gion. Siberian coal miners threatened a strike in support of the president. 
Hopes for a settlement dwin­dled after Yeltsin's chief rival. parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov, presented "rude ultimatums" for concessions during talks with the president, said Yeltsin spokesman Vyach­eslav Kostikov. 
"The president responded with a resolute and firm rejec­tion," Kostikov said, according to the Interfax independent news agency. 
Yet, Khasbulatov later indi­cated he still hoped for a com­promise. 
Also Wednesday. President Clinton also expressed hope for a negotiated solution, saying "It is very much in our interest to keep Russia a democracy." lie met with Hussian Foreign minister Andrei Kozyrev to dis­cuss U.S. aid and the planned Clinton-Yeltsin summit in van­couver on April 3-4. 
The struggle betwe!ln Yeltsin and the Communist-dominated Congress of P!lople's Deputies had been stewing for months over the question of whether the executive or legislative branch should have more power. 
The situation boiled over aft!lr Yeltsin declared emergency rule on Saturday and called for an April 25 referendum on whether a new form of parliament should be estab­lished. 
;.: '•' 

T E c H N 0 L...;:'>·· n G y 
.; ::~.: ·

fo r R c n··· .. n E M I R 
··::::.;.;.· 

T~:.~ff~:~~.~;~1'~~;ii.""::~::7ti~·,~::;:"~·~:; 
Spring~~~jes ofpiesentacionso~ i:h~~ducacional uses6f~ompucer and media techn_()Iogies...·•·•••••••,, ..,,,,•.. 
::~,:2~~~onSi Rrezzo: 
· Piero dellaira'ncesca~s {qcle ofthe lruetross .. %~~~:::;~#'--.· 
Marilyn·~rotibf:fg~. f'rofcssorii(tut History, Prinr;:eton Universio/'Y(Jll sp~•.&4,!~r work an4,Provide a demortstra­tion ofelej;rri:lh~~ Jm:aiing. There wlli: ~e an opportci'nity to speak Withprof.'~vin after the PM!.l:~tion. This presenta­tion is joinijy spo\uored by the.lkpartmcnts of Art, Art History and•Design;.•History, and Theology, the Institute for Scholarship in thc'L~heralArts, the MedieVal Institute and by the Office for University Computing as part of its T.eclmol­ogy for Academia ser.i~ •... 
. ..... :t. 

Northwestern University 
Summer Session '93 
Think or swim. 
Our summer catalog list~ more than 300 courses to choose from­in everything under the sun. Call 1-800-FI:'\IJS NU (in Illinois, call 70&'491-4114) or mail this coupon. 
I'm thinking. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '9.~ catalog with financial aid and regislrJlion information (availahle in March). !'lease send the catalog to U my home U my school. Summer Session, 200:\ Sheridan Hoad 
Evanston, Illinois 60208-26SO 
Name 
School Addrt'" 
City Stale Zip 
HispANic AMERiCAN 0RqANiZATiON 
5. Y. R. DANCE 
KNiql-ns of ColuMbus HAll FRidAy, MARCH 26 AT 7 p.M. 
$500 AT dooR 

Ilome Address 
City Stair Zip 
~onh"'"l'Siem i!l :.1n t'(jtl;tl nppcu1unil\' t>ducatnr and l'mployt·r 
---------~------~------~-----~~-----~-~--~~~ ------~-~--~~---­
Thursday, March 25, 1993 The Observer page 7 

Police arrest key suspect in Trade Center blast 
NEW YORK (AP) -A key suspect in the World Trade Center bombing was flown back to the United States from Egypt on Wednesday to face charges, authorities said. 
Mahmoud Abouhalima, a 33­year-old New York City cab driver, arrived at Stewart In­ternational Airport in New­burgh, authorities said. 
The suspect faced an ar­raignment Thursday, said U.S. Attorney Roger Hayes. 

arrested at his family's home after returning recently from the United States. 
His family wouldn't talk to reporters. "Peace be upon you." said Abouhalima's father before slamming the door. Two of Abouhalima's four children were standing inside the home. 
Neighbors in Woodbridge said Abouhalima had lived since fall in one-bedroom apartment there with his German wife and four children. The neighbors said they knew little else about him. 
Salameh, 25, an illegal alien of Palestinian descent living in Jersey City, and Nidal Ayyad, 25, a Palestinian-American of Maplewood, N.J., are being held without bail in the bombing. 
Salameh allegedly rented the van that carried the bomb; Ayyad is a chemical engineer with bomb-building knowledge, authorities say. 
A fourth man, Ibrahim El­gabrowny of Brooklyn, is charged with assaulting federal agents who searched his apartment for clues. He also is being held without bail. 
Authorities believe Abouhal­ima worked for a while as a driver for Abdel-Rahman, who is in exile from Egypt. The blind cleric said last week he had never owned a car and has denied any involvement in the trade center blast. 
Abdel-Rahman advocates an Islamic fundamentalist gov­ernment in Egypt. He was ac­quitted in Egypt in the 1980s of sanctioning the assassination of President Anwar Sadat. 
Abouhalima has ties to radical Islamic Sheik Omar Abdel­Rahman, as three others ar­rested in the case are believed to have, said a federal investi­gator, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
"He is probably more involved in this bombing than any of the other ones we have arrested so far," the investigator said. He said at least two more suspects are being sought. 
The motive remains unknown 

ND-SMC 
Students 
20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON  ROME  
May 19-June 18  June 13 -July 12  
Travel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland, and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING April5 
6:30 p.m. Madeleva Hall, Rom 348 SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284A460 or 272,3726 

Date: Thurs. • 3/25 At washington Hall 

-00 
Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office 
.4.11 
..... 


Consider a Concentration in Science, Te.chnology &Values 
•Take 
a Course 

• 
Elect the Concentration 


•Consider 
an Inter-disciplinary Career 

•Meet 
Others Sharing Your Interests/Concerns 


USTV Courses Take Up The Questions Of Our Lives" 
Informational Meeting: 
Thursday, March 25 5:00-6:00 p.m. Room 217 O'Shaughnessy 
for the Feb. 26 blast, which killed six and injured more than 1,000. 
The investigator said Abouhalima oversaw the opera­tion in which a rented van loaded with a huge bomb was detonated in a parking garage beneath the world's second­tallest buildings. 
On the morning of the blast, Abouhalima was seen riding in a van with the first man ar­rested in the bombing, Mo­hammed Salameh, according to a federal investigator in New Jersey. 
Abouhalima also was spotted near the Jersey City storage warehouse where authorities recovered explosives after the blast, said the investigator, also speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The investigator in New York said the suspect was "someone on the style of a consultant. He was telling others what should be done.... (He) definitely is. a key guy." 
A sealed indictment was re­turned this week against Abouhalima by a Manhattan federal jury based on evidence seized last week at a raid of his home in Woodbridge, N.J., the investigator said. 
Neighbors in Kafr el-Diwar, Egypt, a textile town on the Nile near Alexandria, said he was 
-----~· -~~----~------~~--~-~--­
Clinton plans economic programs at home, USSR 
Americans will save billions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton asserted Wednes­day that preserving democracy in Russia with injections of U.S. aid would save Americans billions of dollars that otherwise would go into maintaining a nuclear arsenal. 
Clinton began his campaign for a still-undisclosed U.S. aid package at a White House meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev. He also got a firsthand account from Kozyrev of the political squeeze conservatives in Moscow are putting on Presi­dent Boris N. Yeltsin. 
"It is very much in our inter­est to keep Russia a democracy, to keep moving toward market reforms and to keep moving toward reducing the nuclear threat," Clinton said. 
He did not disclose what he might offer Yeltsin when they meet at the summit in Vancou­ver, British Columbia, April 3­
4. However, Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher said one possibility was reschedul­ing some of Russia's debt. 
Last month, Christopher told Congress the administration would propose boosting technical aid to Russia and other former Soviet republics from $417 million currently to about $700 million. 
Whatever the details, Clinton said the preservation of democracy "will save the American people billions of dollars in money we don't have to spend maintaining a nuelear arsenal if we can continue to denuclearize the world." 
He is due to go to Tokyo in mid-April to work on a second, joint aid package with the foreign ministers of Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 
With pressures on the U.S. budget, Congress may not readily accede to the adminis­tration's proposals. 
House members, in a closed meeting with Christopher, stressed that the administra­tion must make clear to the American people why aiding Hussia is crucial to U.S. inter­ests. 
Lawmakers "are encounter­ing a loi of questions from their constituents ... so they pressed the secretary on those very hard," said Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 4:45k7:15, 9:45 
SWING IDS (PG-13) 
5:00, 7:30..,10:00 
POINT OF No METURN (R) 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

WASHINGTON (AP) Democrats rebuffed the Repub­licans' best shot at derailing President Clinton's economic plan on Wednesday as the Se­nate voted to preserve his pro­posed tax increase on the best­off Social Security recipients. 
By rejecting the GOP effort to kill the tax increase on a 52-47 vote, the Senate put a blueprint of Clinton's deficit-reduction plan on a clear path to passage. 
Majority Democrats relished the taste of imminent victory ­and practically gloated before their Republican rivals. 
"We tried your plan for 12 years and it didn't work," taunted Sen. Donald Riegle, D­Mich. "And the American peo­ple reached that judgment last November, and they sent that crowd out and they sent in a new president who came in with an economic plan for this country." 
The Senate is likely to approve the outline of tax boosts on the rich, defense cuts and long­range spending increases on Thursday. The House approved a similar measure last week, and negotiators from the two 

O'MALLEY AWARD 
7993 UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER OF THE YEAR AWARD 
• I•t?
what IS . 
Each year a committee of students represent­ing all years and majors decide which under­graduate prof has best dedicated his/her time and effort to classroom teaching. The chosen prof wins an award of $1 000. 
an students nominate the profs? 
YESI Forms for nominating your favorite and most deserving profs will be available in the 
Student  Government  Offic~  2nd  floor  of  
Lafortune starting Fri.  March  19.  They will  
be due by Wed.  March  31.  


Bill Clinton 

chambers plan to begin crafting a compromise measure immediately. The actual tax and spending changes will be included in future legislation. 
After the Social Security vote, Democrats flexed their muscle again as the chamber voted 55­44 to kill a Republican attempt at eliminating new taxes and spending boosts that Clinton wants. 
But the key vote was on the Social Security amendment, which was aimed squarely at the political soft spot of Clin­ton's recovery plan. Party lead­ers couched the vote as a loy­alty test for Democrats -and succeeded. 
"This is a torpedo aimed at President Clinton," said Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine. "This is an effort to slow down the momen­tum that's gathering for the president in the country." 
As the ultimate outcome be­came obvious, Republicans of­fered critiques of the presi­dent's package that they hoped WOl!ld sway the public. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, compared its higher taxes and new federal initiatives to socialism. 
"If socialism carries the day, this program will work," Gramm said. "But it has never carried the day. It has been rejected everywhere in the world except Cuba, in North Korea and China, and in Wash­ington, D.C." 
Prospects for quick approval of Clinton's accompanying $16.3 billion jobs package seemed a bit dimmer, however. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. 
Contact Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540 for more information. 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 page 9 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor .......•. Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Edltor ...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Editor ................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631·4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Seeking help first step to recovery 
Dear Editor: both schools do stretch the def­fo·rmula for intervention, but inition of "naturally skinny," nonconfrontational communi­
On picking up today's issue of most do have normal eating cation and support is the best the Observer, I was pleased to habits. And there are a lot of way to show concern and pos­see that the Inside Column dealt happy fat people who are not sibly spur a person to seek help. with the continuing problem of compulsive eaters. By the same eating disorders at Notre Dame token, there are many bulimics Unless physical danger seems and Saint Mary's. Although who look "normal," or even imminent, making another's Jenny Marten's article was "dumpy" by today's sick stan­eating problems a public issue insightful, and I agree that both dards. usually does more harm than campuses need to acknowledge good. Hall and counseling staff the pervasiveness of these The point I'm trying to make are good sources for handling a problems, I can't imagine is that, while eating disorders person with those kinds of anyone who patronizes the are not defined by visible body disorders, but "ratting" on them campus dining halls agreeing types, their effects can be seen and forcing them into meetings with her statement that "it is bY. anyone willing to look for with "concerned third parties" not something you see" here. them. Any eating disorder usually results in alienation and 
manifests itself in very private resentment. The best thing to 
Although I have only seen the behaviors that have visible ef­do is be a friend; situation at Notre Dame, fects on a person's attitude to­nonjudgemental support allows association with (and ward food. a person to come to terms with knowledge oO several women Anyorie who notices a friend the effects of their very private with eating disorders has or roommate who displays problem instead of forcing them sensitized me to just how visible marked anxiety and secretive­to lie and hide their behaviors the problem actually is. In some ness about eating and related further. circles, for example, hinging behaviors should keep his or and purging have been reduced her eyes open because correct To avoid sounding exclusion­to an accepted and laughable suspicions will be followed by ary, I would like to address behavior. The cult of physical lots of further "evidence": tons those living with eating disor­fitness here likewise allows of junk-food wrappers appear­ders as well. Nobody needs to compulsive exercise to be ing in the trash all at once, be "told" that they're sick, and viewed as absolutely normal. vomit traces left in the bath­being lectured by friends and 
Despite the acceptance or ig­rooms nearby, agitation when do-gooders usually inspires norance of behaviors associated the person is accompanied to more anger and resentment with eating disorders, anyone meals or to the bathroom than it does reform. A recover­who knows what to look for can afterward, consistent appear­ing bulimic once described her spot at least one sick person at ance of anxiety or detachedness impetus for seeking help: any given meal in the Notre at meals...the list could go on "When you decide you want to Dame dining halls: An ema­for columns. stop, that is when you are no ciated young woman sitting longer able to do it yourself." alone ravenously devours a Recognizing these behaviors Seeking help is not an admis­mountain of grape-nuts for can understandably result in a sion of weakness, and getting dinner; or an obese student desire to "do something" for the better is the only way to reclaim plugs quarter after quarter into person, but attempts at your true strength. the vending machine so she can communication are likely to be gorge on junk-food in private met with hostility. As with alco­K.L. Lawrence later on; a normal-looking girl holism and other behav­Pangborn Hall eats like a football-player, and ioral/physical problems, the March 22, 1993 has to use the bathroom 10 only person who can make the minutes later no matter what. sick person get well is that per­
Although many women at son herself. There is no proven 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

IU 7HINKABOUT17; 
RICK.. I HAVt= 7V 5TART 
5tOWtY. I WN'TF'EAU-Y 
KNOW 7Ht= ROP!3S AT 
JUSTIC&... 
I 

AL-SO, ZO&:S A t17Ttt= 
THB<&

PR£0CCIJPIW. 7H&RE!3 !3IZNQ(JfT8 A tOT HAS~ 
I

OF FAUOUTmJM 7H!3 NANNY UP­ROAR. 
\ 

IIAJANT RiGHT. a/ANT SOCIAL-M87D9TAI<T 5!3CURJT/. TURNING I /XJWNYOUR.
emwo? 
"What food is to one, is to others bitter poison." 
Lucretius 

Eat. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
Accent 
page 10 Thursday, March 25, 1993 
BY TARA CAVALLARO 
Accent Writer 
Classic art never stays for long. 
The last chance to catch the Six Great Printmakers in the Print, Drawing, and Photography Gallery at the Snite Museum of Art is approaching. The show, featuring Jacques Callot, Albecht Durer, Rembrandt van Hijn, William Blake, Honore Daumier, and .James McNeil Whistler will close on Sunday, March 28. Admission is free. 
The exhibit shows works of some well known artists such as Hembrandt and Durer, Curator Stephen B. Spiro said. Also, on display are works of artists such as Blake and Whistler with which the public may not be quite as familiar, Spiro said. 
In addition, the exhibit provides the first chance to see some artwork that will not be on view again for several years. 
"75% of the prints being viewed have never been shown before," said Spiro. "This is a rare chance to look at something that won't be out for sometime. Any works on paper are fragile to light and humidity and can't stay exposed all that long before they are returned to protective storage." 
A variety of media are repre­sented. These include prints, engravings, woodcuts, and lithographs. 
Among the 37 works are Callot's "Life of the Virgin" series, Hembrandt's biblical im­ages, Blake's illustrated engravings of Dante's "Inferno," Daumier's lithographs which satirize the French bourgeoisie, and Whistler's prints of street scenes and figure studies. 
Spiro stressed the exhibit's original nature. "There is a big difference between original prints and reproductions. 'The Great Printmakers' is an exibit showing original works of art. These are artists who were really committed to original works of art," Spiro said. 
"The artists worked with a block of wood, stone, or metal and then printed their work onto paper. It is the prints that are considered a work of art," Spiro said. 

Timely Classics 
The Snite exhibits rare prints by Rembrandt, Durer, Whistler 
'·_, ~' 

_,:ffA;,"~.,~,,,,~~> 
). 
t 
1
,'\ ' 
.·· 
..) 

Photo courtesy /Snite Museum of Art The lithograph 'A Musical Sketch' by artist Honore Daumier will be on display in the Snite Museum until Sunday, March 28. 
About the printmakers 
Editor's note: Works of the 
allowing artists, who range 
rom artistic periods of the 16th to the 19th century, are part of the Snite's "Six Great Printmakers" display. 
James McNeill Whistler 
1843-1903 
James McNeill Whistler is an American-born artist who is often mistaken as an European artist. At age 21 he moved to Paris and immediately embraced the European avant­garde movements. 
Rembrandt Van Rijn 
1606-1669 
Although most commonly known as a painter and drafts­man, Rembrandt was also one of the most remarkable printmakers. 
Rembrandt produced nearly 300 prints, the earliest etchings dating all the way back to the late 1620's. One o these early printings, "The Good Samaritan," is on view. 
Albrecht Durer 1471-1528 
Regarded as the greatest artist of the Henaissance in Northern Europe, Diirer was a painter, graphic artist, and theoretician. DUrer was the first artist to express himsel primarily through engraving. 
Honore Daumier 1808-1879 
Honore Daumier is best known for caricatures of the politics and social manners o mid-19th-century France. 
Daumier is classified as a Realist. His subjects are depicted as they ordinarily appear -sometimes with blank expressions that show they were unaware they were being observed. 
Jacques Callot 1592-1635 
Jacques Callot produced most of his over 1400 prints while working in the royal courts of Italy, France. and Spain. Callot is most famous for his prints of beggars. Two of these are in the collection on display at the SnHe. 

Morrissey Film Fest brings students to Silver Screen 
By RICK DELVECCHIO 

ccent Writer 
The ND campus will be alive ith video excitement this Friday night, as the fifth annual orrissey film festival kicks off 
o benefit the St. Hedgwig's utreach Center. "We are expecting the iggest crowd ever this year, around 1500 people," said Paul atthews, co-chairman of the 
estival committee. He partly 
attributes this to the increase in 
film submissions. 
"This year we had more sub­
issions than last year. 
Eighteen films were entered 
and the best nine were selected 
or the show," he said. 
One difference in this year's 
roduction is that more 
omedies have been submitted. 
Eight of the nine entries strive 
or humor. 
"All sorts of people enter ilms, from highly polished ·tudent productions to regular students who just put together some funny scenes," Matthews said. 

Some of the films are parodies, and use a cynical type of humor, according to Matthews. 
Sophomore Kory Klem, whose film, "Messiah II; He's Back," pokes fun at the Notre Dame campus and "the human race in general," admits that his film has a humorous tone. He said that the inspiration for the film arose from ideas and discussions in his roommate and co-director, Jeff Bocan's, core class. 
"We really haven't done a lot of video things before," he said. "We're really thrilled with it. It's an honor to be shown. We hope the audience enjoys it," Kory said. 
The nine films which will be shown on Friday were chosen from a field of eighteen by a committee of judges from Morrissey. 
"The panel consisted of two Assistant Rectors and a group of diverse students who could judge all the films, comedy and serious, equally," Matthews said. 
The best film will be awarded a $100 prize. Trophies will also be awarded for Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Director. 
Matthews and his co-chair, Rian Akey, are greatful to many people for their contributions to the event. In particular, Matthew mentioned Mike LaSalle and Mike Martin, who put together the program for the event. 
Mae Lee .Johnson, Director of St. Hedwig's Outreach Center, will speak briefly to the crowd about the purpose of the organization benefitted by the event. 
Admission is free, but donations will be accepted for the center. The show begins at 

File photo 

8, at Stepan Center. 
Morrissey Film Fest is this Friday 


~-~­

Accent
Thursday, March 25, 1993 page 11 
esc commemorates a decade of service 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
Accent Writer 
'The Center focuses 
At the Center for Social Con­on the academic cerns, service means more than spending your spring break in aspects of the Appalachia or volunteering a 
programs. That way,
few hours a week at the Center for the Homeless. It means students can studythinking about the causes of poverty and homelessness and the conditions that reflecting on the social 
created poverty and
problems that you encounter. At the C.S.C., service is a homelessness.' learning experience. 
This weekend, the Center will 
-Gene McClory,
commemorate its 1Oth anniver­sary with events for staff mem­Associate Director,bers, students, alumni, and community members to esc celebrate their commitment to service and social awareness. 
Highlights include a 
The Alumni Forum this week­celebration at Stepan Center on end will allow the 45Saturday from 4 to 6:30 p.m. 
participating alumni to discuss
and the 2nd Annual Alumni other ways that the Alumni
Social Concerns Forum. 
Association can serve as aEstablished in 1983 by a valuable resource for the 
group of students, faculty, and Center for Social Concerns inHoly Cross priests and nuns, the 
before they spend 48 hours they submit a reflection paper Along with offering academic the future. 
Center for Social Concerns now 
immersed in the inner city about their experience to the credit for certain seminars, the
coordinates volunteer 
For McNeill, future service
during Christmas break. C.S.C. and receive one credit in Center for Social Concerns alsoopportunities for 1600 students Theology.Students participating involves faculty members in its and learning opportunities will
and over 30 service groups. 
Upon their return in January, in a Summer Service Project are educational programs. not be confined to members of
For Director Father Don 
the Notre Dame family and the
also expected to prepare for This past fall, they sponsored 
McNeill, however, the Center is 
their experience. During the a workshop on experiential South Bend community. He 
more than just a "hive of 
activity." spring, they spend time education and the integration of plans on getting involved in the learning about the area where service with academic study for national service program that
"We hope to lead students to a 
·we hope to lead 
they will volunteer for eight faculty members and local President Clinton envisioned inreflective discernment of how to his speech at Notre Dame last
weeks in the summer. community resource people.
share their gifts with society, students to a 
After writing a report about fall.
both now and when they leave," 
McNeill said. reflective their project, participants must In the future, McNeill would take a "Reflections on Service" like to see more facultydiscernment of how Theology course in the fall. involvement. "We will try to
Since he became director of By requiring preparation and integrate social concerns inthe Center in 1983, McNeill has to share their gifts 
Correction
follow-up for many of its pro­more courses," he said, "to
tried to link service with 
A photo that ran in Tuesday's for Social Concerns proves that Dame."
learning, focusing on the with society, both now grams and seminars, the Center respond to the mission of Notre 
Accent section and as an
experiential aspects of social and when they leave.' there is more to service than The Center will also continue advertisement Wednesday was
concerns, he said. The 
merely participating in the pro­to work in conjunction with the 
not credited. The photo grams. Alumni Association. Alumni
programs that have become 
promoting the Taproot Theater
most popular with students 
-Fr. Don McNeill, "The Center focuses on the sponsorship at the C.S.C. has in­
Production of ..The Jugger­
show the appeal of the service­
academic aspects of the creased dramatically due to the
learning experience. 
naut" was taken by Hans Scott 
Director, programs," said Associate enormous popularity of the 
(1993, Michael and Co.). The
Director Gene McClory. "That Summer Service Projects, which 
On the Urban Plunge, for esc 
Observer regrets the error. 
way, students can study the provide students with service
example, participants study 
conditions that created poverty opportunities and scholarships
about poverty and social justice 
and homelessness." in alumni club cities. 
Sibling Revelry 
Notre Dame to host sophomores' younger brothers, sisters 
By TONY POTTINGER Mary's or Notre Dame's Junior "The only real problem is the Accent Writer Parent's Weekend. South Bend weather. We've got­ten lots of phone calls from par­Approximately 210 younger ents wondering what their kids 


Don't be surprised this siblings of 175 sophomores will should wear." weekend if you find your dorm travel to campus for the overrun with small children. weekend. The weekend is The gala affair, whose budget No, they are not local South targeted towards 10-16 year is now $10,000, is financed by 
Registration, Sorin Room
Bend kids on a field trip or child olds. the participating sophomores prodigies being recruited by the through registration fee. 101 DeBartolo 
-
a Movie1University. The three day itinerary reads Sophomores and their brothers like a page from Freshman and sisters will receive two T­Ice Cream Social, LaFortune 
The Annual Sophomore Orientation: a movie, an ice shirts and all meals for the Sibling Weekend will bring cream social, a guest speaker, weekend. hundreds of younger brothers -all culminating with a dance 
Lunch, LaFortune Ballroomand sisters to Notre Dame, and raffie Saturday evening and The sophomore hosts are according to James Penilla, mass Sunday morning in the responsible for all travel and Free Time
Sophomore Class President. Morrissey chapel. lodging considerations for their siblings. Parietals will be in Semi-formal dinner, CCE 
The program will provide a Plans for the weekend are effect as usual. unique opportunity for Notre running really well, according Guest Speaker Dame sophomores to share a to committee members. "It is not at all like .a few days of their collegiate life. recruitment thing," Penilla Dance , raffle, LaFortune Ballroom 
"Everything is running said. "It's a chance for students Their younger brothers and smoothly," said Janet to show their little brothers and sisters often take the back seat Hathaway, a member of the sisters what it's like here." 
Mass, Morrissey Chapel 
during other family weekends 1993 Sophomore Sibling such as this weekend's Mother­Committee. 
Brunch, NOH Rooms A and B 
Daughter Weekend at Saint 

The Observer/Dave Hungeling 
The Center for Social Concerns has stood on Notre Dame's campus for ten years. 
.....
----------~-~ --~--~~ -~~--­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, March 25, 1993 
Cremins returns to South Carolina 
COLUMBIA. S.C. (AP) -Bobby Cremins, intent on leaving a legacy at the school where he played basketball, changed his mind Wednesday and took the coaching job at South Carolina. 
The chances of Cremins leav­ing Georgia Tech and returning to coach at his alma mater seemed remote Tuesday night when he called athletic director Mike McGee and turned down the South Carolina job. 
Then Wednesday morning, Cremins called back and asked for more time to consider. Soon after, he accepted. 
Cremins, who spent 12 sea­sons at Georgia Tech, replaces Steve Newton, who resigned Jan. 18 after the school's inter­nal report outlined five sec­ondary NCAA violations. He in­herits a team that went 9-18 last season. 
The 45-year-old silver-haired coach received a five-year con­tract worth $106,928 per sea­son. McGhee said the deal also allows Cremins to earn outside income through television, ra­dio and endorsements and provides for five annual con­tract extensions. 
The arrival of Cremins set ofT a swarm of emotion among South Carolina fans and players looking for someone to revive a program that has languished since the 1980 retirement of 


Courtesy of Georgia Tech Sports Information Georgia Tech head coach Bobby Cremins reconsidered and decided to accept the head coaching job at his alma mater yesterday. 
Frank McGuire, the coach for whom Cremins played. 
"We were watching the news, and they said he had resigned," said Gamecocks' junior forward Emmett Hall. "We jumped up, started shouting; it was a crazy time." 
Cremins said he had thought often about the chance to re­turn to South Carolina and du­plicate McGuire's feats. 
"It's always been a dream of mine to come back here and coach," he said. "I never really thought it would come to real­ity. I would like to end my col­lege career where I started it, and that's right here in Columbia." 
Cremins said he agonized about the decision. 
"The last couple of days, I wanted to come, but the (Tech) players and the Georgia Tech people were holding me down," he said. "Last night, I told Mike (McGee) I really couldn't come because of my players." 
But Cremins said he asked McGee if he could sleep on it one more night. McGee tried reaching Cremins on Wednes­day morning. When he couldn't, South Carolina issued a statement saying the coach would remain at Georgia Tech. It did a quick about-face when Cremins called again to say he still was thinking about it. 
"I told him I needed a few more hours," Cremins said. 
The lure of coming back to where he played from 1968-70 fmally won out. 
"I like to do things instinc­tively, right or wrong," Cremins said. "And I made a final instinctive decision." 
Cremins told Georgia Tech athletic director Homer Rice, spoke to his players, called McGee and headed to Columbia. 
Ismail, White hot topics at NFL meetings 
PALM DESERT, Calif. (AP) ­The futures of Reggie White and Rocket Ismail became the focus of the NFL's annual meetings Wednesday as the owners concluded their in­house business and turned full attention to signing free agents. 
In fact, the normally staid football meetings turned into something akin to 
.& baseball as Raghlb Ismail the first year of free agency made player deals transcen­dent and pushed minor rules changes and housekeeping into the background. 
On Wednesday, for example: 
-The San Francisco 49ers officially jumped into the sweepstakes for White by de­clining to match Atlanta's offer for Pierce Holt. So White's agent, Jimmy Sexton, immedi­ately sat down with 49ers' owner Edward DeBartolo Jr. and president Carmen Policy at poolside, where DeBartolo and Policy prefer to do business. 
-Bob Woolf, the agent for Ismail, the 1990 Heisman Tro­phy winner, arrived to talk to AI Davis of the Los Angeles Raiders about bringing the Rocket back to the United States from Toronto, where he's spent the first two years of his four-year, $18 million deal. Now, Woolf said, Bruce McNall, owner of the Canadian Football League's Toronto Argonauts "suggested we explore what's happening with the NFL." 
-Free agent quarterbacks started to move. The Minnesota Vikings announced the signing of Jim McMahon to a contract his agent, Steve Zucker, said could bring him as much as $6 million over two years-much in incentives. The Raiders scheduled a news conference for Thursday, presumably to announce the signing of Jeff Hostetler, whose agent, Marvin Demoff, confirmed that the deal was all but done. 
-Leigh Steinberg. who has been parading players through all week, brought in one of the best, linebacker Derrick Thomas of Kansas City, to meet with Detroit among others. 
Volley 
continued from page 20 

The Irish would also benefit from Strottman's return, but "We have lots of Advil," said Madden jokingly. 
The Irish will travel to Tri­State University for the MIVA's Friday and Saturday, where Kavanaugh said the keys to a strong Irish performance would be confidence and a fast start. 
"If we get frustrated early, it will hurt us and may cost us a match," said Kavanaugh. "But if we play strong and keep our confidence up, we'll advance." 
"We have the talent to do re­ally well, and we could easily make the playoffs. We just have to do it." 
Upcoming matches for the Irish include a home match next Thursday, April 1, against the University of Toledo, and a weekend trip to the University of Michigan on April 3. 
! r 
I 
I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds
I charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SUMMER SESSION -4 bdrms, '87 HONDA CIVIC DX hatchbk Call236-9919 Times.) AIRHITCH (r) close to campus, sale call Sherri @ 277-4269 for more 212-864-2000.
,____No_r_IC_E_s_____.l I WANTED 
neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all info EUCHRE EUCHRE EUCHRE utilities. Call Monica B.P. EUCHRE Got the March Madness TYPING 256-6657 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -232-2794. One way ticket to Newark, NJ TOURNAMENT Munchies? 
Earn $2,000+/month + world travel leaving South Bend on 5/17: MARCH 29 -APRIL 3 Sneak away at halftime to AUDITIONSIII AUDITIONS Ill (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES $100. Call Pete at 289-4278. Sign up in dining halls TODAY SUBWAY Auditions lor this semester's etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. or call Sheila at x1268 directing finals are this Sat. employment available. No 219-291-7153. $5/team 6" cold cut combo-still $1.49 and Sun. from 1-4 in the lab experience necessary. For CASH PRIZES for winners 6" tuna-only $ 1 .89 theater. No experience employment program call 3-5 person furnished house, SEC PERSONAL Benefits Catholic Worker necessary!I! 1-206-634-0468 ext C5584. Syst, wash/dry, Beach V-Ball, Prime House And always AUDITIONS Ill AUDITIONSIII Locaton 233-9947. daily footlong specials 
Subleased apartment, 1 bdrm; The NDCIBD will be sponsoring a May 20-Aug. 20. Chris (708) 231-SUMMER SESSION -Visiting Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Pregnant and feeling alone with no SR 23 & IRONWOOD spring forum, Business in the 6954 Professors, grad students. Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological where to turn? We offer confidential 277-7744 Context of Latin American 4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities. Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN counseling at no cost to you. For Development, "Growth in the ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. more information call Nancy at 232­Making", Thursday, March 25 · fisheries. Earn $600+/week in Paul or Monica 232-2794. 5843. 7:30pm at the Hesburgh Peace canneries or $4000+/month on -The Sixth Sense-CREAM YOUR FAVORITE Center. Everyone is welcome to fishing boats. Free transportation I FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Have you you ever experienced de Adoption: Doctor and teacher will LYONITE IS COMINGIII!III attend Room & Board! Over 8000 SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing make dreams lor your baby come 
openings. No experience NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND you turn to? Do you belief in E.S.P? true. Full-time parenting. Best of the Sun. March 28 necessary. Male or Female. For IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a city; summers by the beach; your Sign-ups in dining halls ....... 
ILOST & FOUND I 

employment program call 1-206-2773097 way of life lor you? baby rocked to sleep by a cozy ONLY $1 
545-4155 ext. A5584 OR fireplace in winter, and by ocean •proceeds go to charity• Lost -Gold crucifix & chain before Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2 Do you think horoscopes and waves in summer. Art, music, the break. Sent. Value 634-1817 Sean. SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE baths. Located College Park fortune telling are bogus, perhaps best education, endless love. Call 
-
ENVIRONMENT -EARN $2500-Condos. Comer of Bulla & even sacrilegious? Franny or Stephen collect. I lost an emerald earring stud 3500 Ironwood. Must be responsible We're interested in what you thinkli (212)369-2597. SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS on St. Patty's Day. If found please, National campaign positions to lena! $595 per mo or Sale &65,900. Call the Accent department of The LONDON PLEASE get in touch protect endangered species, Send info to PO Box 4075 South Observer ADOPTION: A loving happy home, (TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT,ENG. with me. Thanks. promote comprehensive recycling, Bend IN 46634. and talk to Kenya at 631-4540. financial security, and educational & FR.) AND ROME (TRAVEL IN 
Heather x2988 and clean the nation's polluted opportunities await your newborn. FR., GER., SWITZ.) UP TO 9 
waterways. Available in Chicago, 22 Summer Lease-Live With ND Drummer seeks guitar and We can help with your expenses. COLLEGE CREDITS AVAILABLE. Lost dad's sleeping bag in front of states and D.C. Cali Jamie toll free: Grads in Alexandria, VA. bass players for original band Please call us collect: David and FOR INFO CALL PROF A.A. the CSC. Have you seen it? Please, 1-800-75-EARTH. Near Washington DC & Metro Cali Cali Dave 1305 Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's BLACK. 284-4460 OR 272-3726. if you know any info call x 4420. (703) 461-2818 help each other. 
HELP MEl Forum on: Business in the Context ND junior's sister & brother-in-law LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING. of Latin American Development, CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. NO recently lost 2 infants to genetic
I FOR SALE
OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL I need a ride tu DC lor Easter! I'll "Growth in the Making", exciting Grad. Happily married for 4 years. disorders. They would like to adopt VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL help w/ gas & tolls. speakers, question and answer Anxious to adopt newborn infant. a child. Large family w/lots of love. DINAMARIE "DIDI" GARCIA Call Kim -x3885 1,400sft time, and more... Everyone is Personal meeting welcome. Lawful II you can help or know one who X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL COND0.$60k.2BED/2BATH encouraged to come. Thursday, and proper pregnancy related can, please call x3314 or (517)531­
w/FPLC & DECK. PERFECT FOR March 25, 7:30 pm Hesburgh Peace expenses paid. Couple approved by 329 collect REWARDIIII Lost set of keys FOR RENT STUDS/ALUMS. 272-5901 Center Texas adoption authorities in with Ran & Stimpy keychain advance of placement. State LOR REI before Spring Break. Call Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom STAND UP FOR supervised adoption procedures. Instead of $2 howbout a female Ryan x1007. House now for 93-94 school 1986 HONDA CIVIC CHOICEI Call collect: David & Maureen sexy legs contest instead 
year 234-1886 Low mileage, great car Link arms with us again (512) 452-3416. snap-a-scam man Lost: A pair of Polo glasses with 631-7555 or 288-5794 Tues,Wed & Fri black rims. Shows the Polo Four bedroom furnished Oakhill TO PROVE WHAT WE FROM Heading for EUROPE this summer? Hey Greg Beatty. emblem on the inside of each nose Condo open for summer rental. '83 Honda Accord lor sale ND/SMC Jet there anytime lor only $1691rom "On your deathbed you will piece. Possibly left in South Dining Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug Great Cond. & Gas Miles REALLY East Coast, $229 from the Midwest receive total consciousness ..." Hall or Morrissey Manor. Please @ 614-237-1370 lor info. Call Patricia 4-4305 STAND (when available) with AIRHITCHI Happy 19th Birthdaylll call at x3508 and ask for Josh. FOR (Reported in Let's Gol & NY -The Dali Llama 
----~---------­
Thursday, March 25, 1993 The Observer page 13 
••••• ••••• ""' .,.,., ''""' """ ""' ""' """ """ ~~~ e
. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 0
-...,. ...... ~ ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ' #"<'f,.., ­
• ~.... ,. -~ ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ ~=-,..., ...
_....._ ~~~ " 0 • ..... . . ....... ...... ...... . ........ ...... . . ·, ~~ ,-..,.
'l:~~
'-._....~ .\.~ ,/' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • -~· ~6. ' '--'· 
~ ' ••••••==•••••·=•••••:: ··.!...... : ..... ==.••••:: :: ··.! ..... : .....:::;:_,.~
'<>:;w.... ,/ 

NBA STANDINGS  ,  NHL STANDINGS I  TRANSACTIONS  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  WALES CONFERENCE  BASEBALL  
Atlantic  Division  Patrick  Division  American  Laague  
New York  W 45  L 19  Pet .703  GB  L10 9-1  Streak Lost 1  Home 30-4  Away 15-15  Conf 31-12  Pittsburgh  W 4 6  L 21  T 6  Pta 98  GF 304  GA 235  Home 27-8-4  Away 19-15-2  Dlv 20-9-2  CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Exercised their option on Bo Jackson, outfielder for the  
New Jersey  40  27  .597  6 1/2  8-2  Woo  24-10  16-17  24-11  Washington  3 1  2 8  1  81  292  254  18-10-6  19·1 8·1  10-18-2  1993 season.  
Boston  '  38  28  .578  8  8-2  Woo  5  21-9  11-19  28-18  New Jersey  36  31  6  78  267  258  22-12-3  14-19-3  15-13-1  NEW  YORK  YANKEES-Optioned  Dave  
Orlando  31  33  .484  14  4-6  Woo  2  20-13  11·20  18-21  NY Rangers  33  29  11  77  281  288  20-11-5  13-18-6  11-15-3  Silvestri,  shortstop,  to  Columbus  of  the  
Miami  29  38  .446  16  1/2  6-4  Lost  2  21·12  8-24  15-25  NY Islanders  34  32  6  74  291  257  .11-15-2  17-17-4  11-13-1  International  League.  Placed  Jack  Lazorko,  
Philadelphia  21  44  .323  24  1/2  2-8  Lost  1  11-21  10-23  15-28  Philadelphia  21  3 4  1 1  85  274  289  18-13-5  9-21-8  12-19-3  pitcher,  on  waivers  for  the  purpose  of  
Washington  19  48  .292  26  1/2  3-7  Lost  13-19  6-27  12-30  ·Adams  Divlalon  giving him  his unconditional release.  
Central  Division  x-Montreal  45  24  6  96  308  249  26-10-2  19-14-4  21-11-0  National  League  
Chicago  4 7  20  .701  7-3  Woo  5  25-9  22·11  29-13  x-Boston  42  25  7  91  292  252  25-9-3  17-16-4  18-9-1  PHILADELPHIA  PHILLIES-Piaced  Ken  
Cleveland  42  24  .836  4  1/2  5-5  Woo  28-6  14-18  25·15  x-Ouebec  40  24  10  90  309  267  20-15-2  20-9-8  15-12-3  Howell, pitcher,  on  waivers  for  the  purpose  
Charlotte Atlanta  35 34  32 32  .522 .515  12 12 1/2  4-8 8·2  Lost Woo  2 2  17-14 19-13  18-18 15-19  20·22 20-25  x-Buffalo Hartford  35 21  28 46  10 5  80 47  305 244  258 322  23-11-2 10-22-5  12-17-8 11-24-0  17-11-4 11-19-3  of giving him his unconditional release. BASKETBALL  
Indiana  32  33  .492  14  6-4  Lost  22-11  10-22  21·24  Ottawa  9  59  4  22  175  342  9-24-4  0-35-0  4-24-1  National  Basketball  Association  
Detroit  29  36  .446  17  5·5  Lost  20-12  9-24  22-19  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  NBA-suspended Greg Anthony,  New York  
Milwaukee  25  40  .385  21  4-6  Woo  16-18  9-22  18-28  Norris  Dlvlalon  Knicks guard,  without  pay  for  at  least  five  
WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division  Detroit  W 41  L 27  T 9  Pta 91  GF 330  GA 257  HOme 22-13-3  Away 19-14·8  Dlv 18-12-3  games and fined him $20,500; Doc New York Knicks guard, two games  Rivers, without  
W  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  Chicago  40  23  1o  90  244  202  22-9-5  18·14-5  18-10-2  pay  and  fined  him  $10,000;  and  Kevin  
Houston  43  23  .652  8-2  Woo  1  25-9  18-14  26-14  Toronto  39  25  9  87  258  212  23·10-5  18·15-4  17-12·5  Johnson,  Phoenix  Suns  guard,  two  games  
San Antonio  41  24  .831  1  1/2  6·4  Woo  1  26-6  15-18  24-14  St.  Louis  34  31  9  77  249  244  20-12-6  14-19-3  13-12-5  without pay and fined him $15,000  for  their  
Utah  38  29  .567  5  1/2  4·6  Woo  1  21-11  17-18  21-19  Minnesota  33  32  9  75  247  261  16-15-6  17-11-3  12-17-3  part in a brawl in a game on March 23. Fined  
Denver  26  40  .394  17  2-8  Lost  21·11  5-29  18-24  TampaBay  21  48  5  47  216  284  12-23-2  9-25-3  7-22-2  Jerrod  Mustaf,  Phoenix  forward,  $10,500;  
Minnesota  15  50  .231  27  1/2  1-9  Lost  5  9-25  6-25  10-29  Smythe  Dlvlalon  Danny Alnge,  Phoenix  guard;  John  Starks,  
Dallas  7  59  .108  35  3-7  Woo  5-28  2-31  1-39  x-Vancouver  38  26  9  85  297  237  23-10-4  15-16-5  20-8-2  Knicks  guard;  and  Anthony  Mason,  Knlcks  
Pacific  Division  x-Calgary  36  26  10  82  276  245  20·11-5  16·15-5  1 8·7·3  forward,  $7,500 for their  part  In  the  brawl.  
x-Phoenix  49  1 5  .766  8-2  Woo  29-4  20-11  32-9  Los Angeles  34  31  7  75  294  297  21·13-4  13-1 8·3  14-13-2  Fined  Charles  Smith,  Rolando  Blackman,  
x-Seattle  4 8  21  .687  4  1/2  6-4  Lost  27-5  19-16  30-11  Winnipeg  33  35  6  72  275  285  20-14-2  13-21-4  14-14-3  Charles  Oakley,  Eric  Anderson,  Herb  
Portland  3 8  2 5  .603  10  1/2  5-5  Woo  1  23·10  15-15  25-15  Edmonton  25  42  8  58  217  295  15-16-5  10-28·3  10-19·1  Williams,  Hubert  Davis  and  Bo  Kimble,  
LA Lakers  33  31  .518  16  4-6  Lost  3  16-15  17-16  21-17  San Jose  10  62  2  22  192  367  7-29·1  3-33-1  7-22-1  Knlcks  players,  and  Cedric  Cebaiias,  Tom  
LA  Clippers  32  34  .485  18  3-7  Lost  1  19-13  13-21  20-20  x-clinched playoff berth.  Chambers,  Frank  Johnson,  Tlm  Kempton,  
Golden State Sacramento  27 21  38 4 4  .415 .323  22 28  1/2 1/2  3-7 3·7  Woo Woo  2 1  15-18 15·19  12-20 6-25  18-19 15-28  Tuesday's Games Washington 5, Quebec 1  Wednesday's Games Late Games Not Included  Nagele Dumas,  Knight, Mark West and Richard Phoenix players, $500 apiece for  
x-cllnched playoff berth. Tuesday's Games Orlando 1 03, Miami 89 Houston 111, Charlotte 1 03 All ant a 125, Dallas 1 07 Cleveland 127, San Antonio 90 Philadelphia 88, Denver 80 Chicago 107, Minnesota 1 00  Thursday's Games Houston at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Golden State at Denver, 9 p.m. New York at Utah, 9 p.m. Indiana at Seattle, 10 p.m. Portland at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Friday's Games  Detroit 3, New York Islanders 2 New Jersey 9, Tampa Bay 3 Pittsburgh 7, San Jose 2 Toronto 5, Winnipeg 4 SCHEDULE  Boston 2, Buffalo 0 Montreal 6, Hartford 5, OT Philadelphia 5, New York Rangers 4 St. Louis at Calgary, (n) Los Angeles at'Vancouver, (n)  leaving the bench area during the incident. Fined the New York Knlcks $50,000 and the Phoenix Suns $25,000 for failing to control their players during the brawl. CHICAGO BULLS-Activated Bill Cartwright, center, from the Injured list. Placed Corey Williams, guard, on the Injured list.  
Utah 119, Indiana 101 Phoenix 121, New York 92 Portland 108, Seattle 99 Sacramento 121, LA Clippers 104 Wednesday's Games Late Games Not Included Boston 115, Miami 1 09 New Jersey 118, Charlotte 116 Chicago 113, Philadelphia 1 00 Dallas 101, Washington 98 San Antonio 105, Minnesota 92 Milwaukee at LA Clippers (n) Phoenix at LA Lakers (n)  Dallas at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Houston at Washington, 7:30 p.m. New Jersey at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Charlotte at Detroit, 8 p.m. Golden State at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Orlando at Chicago, 8:30 p.m. Utah at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Milwaukee at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. New York at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. LA Clippers at Portland, 10:30 p.m.  THURSDAY, MARCH 25 4 p.m. ESPN -LPGA Golf, The Dinah Shore Classic, first round, at Rancho Mirage, Calli. USA -PGA Golf, The Players Championship, first round, at Ponte Vedra, Fla. 7:35 p.m. TBS-NBA Basketball, Houston at Atlanta 8 p.m. CBS-NCAA Basketball Tournament, regional semifinals, doubleheader, Southeast Regional at Charlotte, N.C. AND Midwest Regional at St. Louis, spilt-national coverage g p.m. ESPN-Boxing, heavyweights, Bert Cooper (29-10-0) vs. Derek Williams (19-5-0), at Atlantic City, N.J. 11:30 p.m. SC -Thoroughbred racing, from Gulfstream Park, at Hallandale, Aa. (same-day tape) 1 a.m.  MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES--SI!11ed Sidney Lowe, coach, to a three-year contract. United States Basketball League WESCHESTER STALLIONS-Named Bryan Wiener director of public relations­marketing and promotions. FOOTBALL National Football League MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Signed Jim McMahon, quarterback, to a two-year contract. Canadian Football Lugue OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Cornelius Benton, quarterback. SACRAMENTO GOLD MINERS-Signed Dave Wilson, quarterback, and Kellan Matthews, safety.  
ESPN -Tennis, Davis Cup, first round, singles match B, U.S. vs. Australia, at Melbourne,  
Australia  Oolned  In  progress)  

The Notre Dame Council on 
International Business Development 
SPRING FORUM 1993 Commerce in the Context of Latin American Development "Growth in the Making" 

International Studies

AQuestion &An.swer session will follow. 
Auditorium 

-
--· 

,.­

'-------~----------,-~~·----­
The Observer 
page 14 

Mavericks win second road game 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Jim Jackson scored nine of his 27 points during a 14-2 third­quarter spurt as the Dallas Mavericks won for just the sec­ond time in 33 road games, de­feating the Washington Bullets 101-98 Wednesday night. 
The Mavericks improved their overall record 7-59 with their third victory in five games. The worst record in NBA history was 9-73 by Philadelphia in 1972-73. 
Rex Chapman led Washington with 22 points. while Sean Rooks scored 22 for Dallas. 
Celtics 115, Heat 109 

BOSTON -Reggie Lewis scored 22 points and Dee Brown's basket midway through rebounds, Brown scored 18 points and Lewis finished with 12 assists for Boston. 
Bulls 113, 76ers 100 
PHILADELPHIA-Michael Jordan scored 19 of his 43 points on 9-for-10 shooting in the third period, leading Chicago past Philadelphia for its fifth consecutive victory. 
Scottie Pippen had 18 points, 10 rebounds and eight assists as the Bulls won for the ninth time in 11 road games despite losing coach Phil Jackson with two technical fouls 27 seconds into the game. 
Clarence Weatherspoon had 21 points and Armon Gilliam 20 for Philadelphia, which has lost 21 of 25 games, dropping its 

First, Rumeal Robinson stripped Larry Johnson of the ball as he tried to maneuver around Coleman with 13 sec­onds to play. Then, after Rafael Addison missed a pair of free throws with six seconds re­maining to give the Hornets another chance, Coleman blocked Muggsy Bogues' jump shot at the buzzer. 
Alonzo Mourning led the Hor­nets with 28 points, while Johnson scored 24. The Nets, who played without Drazen Petrovic because of a strained knee, got 28 points and 12 as­sists from Robinson and 14 re­bounds from Coleman. 
Spurs 105, T-Wolves 92 
MINNEAPOLIS David 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 

AP File Photo 
Derek Harper and the Dallas Mavericks defeated the Washington Bullets 101-98 to post their third win in their last five games. 
the fourth quarter gave Boston home record to 11-21. Robinson had 29 points, 11 re-'[ the lead for good against Nets 118, Hornets 116 
bound' and 'even aS'i'"· lifting ·1 }@.'SY 7 Day Deliv.~ry
Miami. EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. San Antonio over Minnesota-
l 
After the Celtics fell behind by Derrick Coleman scored a and spoiling Sidney Lowe's Roses Flowers five points early in the fourth season-high 35 points and Sam official debut as head coach. . .,_-l-1>" t.. 
Balloons Plants
quarter, Brown's jumper with Bowie's 20-footer with 30 Lowe was interim coach for 34 rp~vl"t 
6:32 remaining put Boston seconds left lifted New Jersey games after taking over for the ...,.,...ruu....-'",...r Gift & Fruit Baskets ahead 97-96, the 26th lead over Charlotte. fired Jimmy Rodgers on Jan. 
Clocktower Square ( 219) 2 7 7 , 1291o...o_e't
11. He was awarded a three­
change of the game. After Bowie's shot broke a 
~ '{\.'t~
5! 100 31 North

The Heat, who made all 30 of 116-116 tie, the Nets made two year contract Wednesday their free throws, were led by big defensive plays to preserve although the Timberwolves now 
South Bend, IN 46637 ~~ o.~~ Glen Rice with 35 points. Robert the victory, their sixth in a row have lost five straight games 
Mention This Ad and Receive IO'Yo off ~ Parish had 19 points and 14 1t home. and 10 of 11. 
Not good for Valentine's Day 
Irish 
continued from page 20 

might actually be deeper than 
we are," and the Spartans 
almost made him right. 

Ron Rosas, Todd Wilson, and 
Morrissey Manorfreshman Mike Sprouse all lost in straight-sets, with Rosas falling to Kevin Seckel, 6-3, 6-3, Wilson losing to Wade Marten, 6-4, 6-2, and Sprouse losing a 6-4, 6-4 decision to Jayson 
invites you to its 5th annual 
Bedford. 

Schmidt and Wojtalik's wins 
at two and six-singles saved the 
day for the Irish. Schmidt 
trounced Brad Dancer, 6-2, 6-2 
and Wojtalik crushed Gus 
Giliner 6-0, 6-2. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Film Festival 
Aikido Club will have prac­tice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. Be­ginners are welcome. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club 
is having a meeting for all 
Friday, March 26, 9:00 p.m.
former and present members to discuss the Culver Show. II you have any questions, call Megan at 634-2784 or Julie at 634-4024. If you're still interested in showing at 
Stepan Center 
Purdue, call Katie at 284­
5520. 

Bookstore Basketball Is looking for a joke team to play against campus celebrities in the Hall of Fame 
(An evening of student-produced films) 
Game on March 28. Contact 
Andy at 634-1223 if you are 
interested. 

Free admission, donations accepted for 
Bookstore Basketball 
captains' meeting will be 
March 25 at 7 p.m. in Cushing 
!Auditorium. It will be short 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center. 
and schedules will be passed 
out. All should attend. 

Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold its weekly meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. 
See you at the movies! 
TRANSLATORS 

Earn extra money as contract transla­tor In growingsegmentofour commu­nica lions business. Call now for details and information packet. Zoss Com­munications, Inc. 219-288-1422 . 

.. 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Paid Advertisement 
"Tell Medjugorje that I am with you. I bless you. I beg you: protect Medjugorje, protect Our Lady's message!" Pope John Paul II "Medjugorje is a sign to all of you and a call to pray and live the days of grace that God is giving you." Our Lady, from Medjugorje 
Medjugorje 

February 25, 1993 Message from Our Lady, 
Dear children! Today I bless you with my motherly blessing and invite you all to conversion. I wish that each of you decides himself for a change of life and that each o you works more in the church, not through words and thoughts but through example, so that your life may be a joyful testimony for Jesus. You cannot say that you are converted because your life must become a daily conversion. In order to understand what you have to do, little children, pray and God will give you what you concretely have to do, and where you have to change. I am with you and place you all under my mantle. Thank you for having responded to my call. 
March 25th Queen ofPeace Mass Tonight! 6:30p.m. . 
Sacred Heart Basilica 
Come & receive Our Lady's March 25th message! 
Confessions begin at 6:00p.m.~ Mass at 6:30p.m. 
..
Consecrate yourself to Our Lady on this Feast of the Annunciation! 
]oin your "Yes" to hers! 
Watch A Message of Peace-Channel 46-every Sunday, 9:00p.m. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer Thursday, March 25, 1993 
Bozeman leads youthful Cal against Kansas 
ST. LOUIS {AP) -On the eve of their Midwest Regional semifinal game against Kansas, the California Golden Bears are confident, eager and enjoying themselves, They're a perfect reflection of their coach. 
Only 29, Todd Bozeman has the sixth-seeded Bears on a wonderful ride through the tournament. It's one he won't allow his players to get nervous or worked up about. 
"I've just tried to remind the guys that 'Hey, we've been through a lot already, so this should really be a piece of cake and we need to really keep it focused,' " Bozeman said Wednesday. 
"A lot of players don't ever get an opportunity like this to play in the Sweet 16. This is a great opportunity, and you can't just let it go by without really taking full advantage of it." 
Cal (21-8) is the surprise of the regional, having disposed of two-time defending cham­pion Duke last weekend to reach the fmal 16 for the first time since 1960. The Bears have done it with Bozeman's steadying influence since the firing of coach Lou Campanelli on Feb. 8. 
Would the Bears have been here with Campanelli? The players don't think so. 
"I don't think we would have made it this far,·: Lamond Murray said. "At the time, our minds weren't in it and we didn't have confidence at all." 
"Basketball wasn't fun any­more," said Alfred Grigsby. 
Bozeman has helped make things fun again. He eats with the players. He suits up with the scout team and practices against the starters. He talks with his players, about basket­ball or anything else that's on their minds. 
"Every coach has his own style, his own personality. I think my ability to communi­cate is one of my strong points," Bozeman said. 
"I've taken the approach that when I was a player, there were things I wanted from a coach that 1 didn't necessarily get." 

Alexander getting used to attention 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) -Virginia point guard Cory Alexander is basking in the at­tention he and the Cavaliers are receiving after advancing to the NCAA East Regional. 
"I can't think of any writer I haven't been ready for yet," said the sophomore who leads the team with a 


19.1 point Cory Alexander scoring average and 140 as­sists. And no one has to tell Alexan­der what an impressive show­ing against Cincinnati on Friday in East Rutherford, N.J., will mean for him and the team. "You can definitely be made or broken," he said. Alexander, a second-team all­ACC selection and first-team all-tournament choice, isn't a household name nationally. "I'm not as well known as Bobby Hurley, but people are starting to hear about me and catch on a little bit," he said. Alexander said the East Re­
gional's proximity to New York City is important. 
"I definitely like the atten­can be great.' It's all about re­tion," he said. "New York is spect. I just want to be the where you want to be ... the best." type of situation I love to be in. There have been times When you're trying to be one of Alexander's garrulous nature the best players in the country, has gotten him in trouble. you have to have people know Coach Jeff Jones wasn't happy, who you are." for example, when Alexander 
If he excels against Cincinnati, began talking about leaving Alexander can look forward to early for the NBA draft. all kinds of attention. "I want "I have a tendency to say everybody to know how good I things sometimes I wish am," he said. "I'd like them to wouldn't have said, but, no, I say, 'This kid is good. and he don't think I regret anything." 
SPRING SALE 
March 25, 26, 27 & 28 
ave 10 -40°/o on es, trainers, clothing, accessories and rollerblades THIS Is A SALE You WoN,':r WANT To ~Iss!
,: · Thurs 12.-8 Fn 12.. 
l Sat 10 ..4 Sun 12
BIKE.

.· S 603 N. Second St., NilesSPECIAList (616) 683..3100 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Ten Years of Witness and Challenge of creating needs. 
One of the ~laces that is often lifted up to prove that Notre Dame is some Nevertheless, the lOth anniversary of the Center for Social Concerns is a fine special kind of university is the Center for Social Concerns. Founded ten years opportunity to remember again the real gift this institution is to the Notre ago by a group of students and faculty, working under the direction of Fr. Don Dame community. If we didn't have it, McNeill, C.S.C., this Center strives within the Notre Dame environment to we'd have to create it. promote education and action around the issues of justice and peace, through 
the use of the techniques of experiential learning. We at Campus Ministry are strong in our salute. We know the value of the 
Center's work. Without their programs, and without our relationship to them, Every summer, every Christmas holiday, every semester break hundreds of our own efforts in religious education and sacramental preparation, in liturgy Notre Dame undergraduates travel to Appalachia and Florida, to Washington planning and retreat coordination -all our works -would ring a bit hollow if 
D.C. and Chicago, to all the inner cities of America to experience, and then they did not draw upon and feed into the "hands on" commitment to service reflect upon, the struggles of the poor and the structures of injustice within our and social action which the Center promotes. The integration of faith and society. Programs such as the Urban Plunge, the Summer Service Projects, and action is a special challenge to us all. the various Break-time one-credi,t seminars invite our students to seek deeper understanding of the systemic violence and injustice within our society, and to Congratulations to the Center for Social Concerns on its lOth anniversary begin to integrate the demanding implications of such realities for their own celebrations. Even if you're asking for money, most of us wouldn't dare 
value systems and career futures. complain. You're the best bargain around. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
Throughout the year dozens of student organizations offer volunteer services to the South Bend homeless, the aged, the young and the handicapped. All these 




To Communities ND Participants:
groups are coordinated and supported by the staff at the Center. The impact of 
Mass and dinner will be at 5:00 p.m. on Friday,
so many good-willed volunteers on the local situation is immense. 
March 26, not March 28. We apologize for the 
In recent years the Center has worked more and more successfully with various 
typo on your invitations. 
Notre Dame Alumni clubs around the country to provide the challenge and support necessary for Notre Dame alumni and their families to continue to 




WEEKEND PRESIDERS
perceive their Notre Dame experience as somehow essentially connected with 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA
the service of others. Local clubs sponsor volunteer activities, fundraising 
projects, and reflection seminars. This weekend a whole group of such alumni 
Sat. March 27 5:00p.m. Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. gather on campus for an "Alumni Social Concerns Forum," where they will try 
Sun. March 28 10:00 a.m. Rev. Michael Himes to help each other understand better their ongoing call to service and the 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. special way their Notre Dame identity shapes and supports this call. 
American culture seems to enjoy celebrating anniversaries. Every time you turn 



around it is the 35th anniversary of your local Ford dealer, or the 65th 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR 
anniversary of your old high school -looking for a much-needed contribution ­
THIS COMING SUNDAY 
or the 6 month anniversary of your roommate's shaky relationship with that oh­
1ST READING Ezekiel37: 12.. 14 
so-cute girl from LeMans Hall, and he too is looking for a much-needed 
2ND READING Romans 8: 8.. 11
contribution, so as to afford a fancy meal down at Tippecanoe Place. 
GosPEL John 11: 1..45 
Hallmark cards is probably behind it all, sending subliminal messages to us 
through the television, and upping their profits in the best American tradition 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Knight and Crum match wits for the first time in March 

ST. LOUIS (AP) -Given the juries still a key question. NCAA success of Indiana and Crum, the coach both times the Louisville, it's hard to believe Cardinals won it all, has taken these schools with a combined fourth-seeded and 15th-ranked seven national titles have never Louisville (22-8) a long way from met before in the tournament. a 2-4 start. According to many, 
But Thursday night's Midwest the Cardinals are playing their Regional semifinal will be the best basketball of the season. first March meeting between The winner gets the winner of Bob Knight and Denny Crum. California-Kansas on Saturday 
"We both like to hunt. We both with a Final Four berth at stake. like to fish. We both like to play First, there's the matter of golf and we both like to coach," Indiana-Louisville. Crum said Wednesday in "It was more difficult to ma­comparing two of the top 10 neuver through Xavier; they active coaches in terms of vic­were really tough for us," Knight tories or winning percentage. "I said when asked about handling guess our styles are a little the injuries this season to guard different in how we teach what Pat Graham and then forward we teach, but we are very simi­Alan Henderson. lar on a lot of ways." "A lot has been made, and 
Knight, who won three of In­deservedly so, of Henderson's diana's five national titles, injury. But the injury to Pat 
brings his top-ranked and top­Graham has been a really big Louisville head coach Denny Crum, who has won two seeded Hoosiers (30-3) into the loss to our team. I really don't national championships, will guide his Cardinals in round of 16 off a shaky victory think Pat has been sufficiently the NCAA tournament tonight against... over Xavier, Ohio, and with in-recognized." 
Courtesy of Louisville Sports lnfonnation 
W. Kentucky hoping for another upset 
Nice Bow! 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­
Is this the way you dress when you're 20? 
Western Kentucky has dis­played the talent to get through the NCAA Southeast Regional and into the Final Four for the first time in 22 years. 
So why is Ralph Willard so nervous? 
"Florida State and our team are very similar," Willard said at a news conference prior to Thursday's semifinal matchup against the Seminoles. "When I look at the game, I haven't found a spot to attack because 
NOTRE DAME PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS 
Visit the University of Michigan Law School on Friday, April 2 
For informaion, call Aaron at 273-0663 
+ 

LENTEN GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, March 28 3:00-7:00 p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection on the biblical texts of the Sundays of Lent. 

Place: Fischer Graduate Community Center Cost: The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which a donation will be welcomed. CALL BY FRIDAY MARCil 26 TO RESERVE A PlACE. Contact fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 
the match-ups are very similar." him to wear a brace in practice 
Each team can look in the and in games. The inconve­backcourt if they want to try nience hasn't slowed him in the and disrupt each other's plans. postseason, however. 
For Western Kentucky (26-5), Ward, the quarterback for it's Mark Bell, who has 7 5 steals coach Bobby Bowden's team, for a team that set a school got 15 points, five assists and record this season with 349 four steals in the first-round thefts. The Hilltoppers reached victory over Evansville. In beat­that mark with 11 steals in the ing Tulane, Ward had only eight second-round victory over Seton points, but handed out six Hall. assists. He's hit nine of his 14 
Supporting Bell, who also has field-goal attempts so far. 120 assists, are forwards Dar­Still nervous, Ralph? nell Mee and Bryan Brown. Mee "With the other teams we is the scorer of the two, have played, there has been one averaging 18.9 points per game, player which we could key on to and Bell is next at 16.8 points. try and stop the opponent's The other starters, Brown, attack," he said. "But, Florida Darius Hall and Darrin Horn, State is very well balanced and contribute 24 points a game to has a potent offense. We must the Hilltoppers attack. play good team defense." 
Western Kentucky also can Here is where Willard may make a shambles of a team's start to worry. Ward is the only offense. It forces 22 turnovers a one of Florida State's starters game. who averages in single figures. 
The man who makes Florida Bob Sura, the 1992 ACC State (24-9) click is Charlie rookie of the year currently Ward, playing with a slight struggling with his shooting, is dislocation of his left shoulder still averaging 20 points per which makes it necessary for game. 
l l l l
I 
~l!~~-~.~~ ~~;~!~~St. Hours: ~~~~a~~~~ ~~-m. 1 • (219) 255·5214 Sw.day 12:30•7 p.m.
f 0 

New, Healthy Korean Menu! Lunch Buffet: T ues-Fri 11:30·2 p.m. $4.95 all you can eat. Open Sunday for Dinner Buffet: I2:30-7 p.m. All you can eat. Includes: braised hot pork, chob chae, sweet and sour pork, soups, appetizers, salads, fruits and desserts. All for only $8.50. 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE 
OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
'~ 
YV 

A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future ­including the possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 4 1 :00 -5:00 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY APRIL 1 
Applications can be filled out at either 
Campus Ministry Office: 
Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
1&1 
0MPUS 
Call 631-5242 for more information
MIN\>TRY 


Big East clash heads NIT action 
BOSTON (AP) -Providence, snubbed by the NCAA tourna­ment, moved into the semifinals of the NIT as Dickey Simpkins matched his career-high of 23 points in a 75-58 victory Wednesday night over Boston 
College. 
The Friars (20-11) capped the first half with an 8-0 run that made the score 31-22 


and led by at Gerrod Abram least nine points the rest of the way. 
Boston College (18-13) closed to within 56-45 on Gerrod Abram's 3-pointer with 6:31 left. Then Simpkins and Michael Smith each hit two free throws, and the Eagles never threatened again. 
Providence used its superior height to outrebound Boston College 45-23 and win its third game in three tries this season against its Big East rival. 
The teams tied for fourth in the conference with Pittsburgh and Connecticut. Pittsburgh was the only one of the four to get to the NCAAs although Providence won seven of its nine games before the selec­tion. 
The Friars have won their 
three games since then, setting 
up a Monday night semifinal 
matchup in New York against 
the winner of Wednesday 
night's Minnesota-Southern 
California game. Providence 
and Georgetown, also in the 
NIT, are the only Big East teams 
still playing. 

Smith had a game-high 18 
rebounds for Providence, whose 
21 oiTensive rebounds were just 
two fewer than the Eagles' 
total. Simpkins added nine 
Open Forum for Graduate Women 
Sponsored by the Graduate School 
Wednesday, March 24 and Thursday, March 25 Both sessions to be held between 
4:30 and 6 p.m. at FOG Community Center 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
FRIDAY 

WOMEN'S TENNIS vs Miami (OH) Eck Tennis Pavilion~'""'" 4:00PM 
rebounds. The Friars have four starters 6-foot-7 or taller, while Boston College has three starters 6-4 or shorter. 
Malcolm Huckaby and Abram led Boston College with 14 points each. 
Minnesota 76, USC 58 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. Voshon Lenard scored 25 points and ignited a decisive 18-7 run Wednesday night as the Minnesota Gophers advanced to the NIT semifinals with a 76-58 victory over Southern Cal. 
The Gophers (20-1 0) will play in New York on Monday against Providence, a 75-58 winner over Boston College in another quarterfinal matchup Wednesday. 
The win gave Minnesota 20 wins for the sixth time, the first since 1989-90 when the Go­phers were 23-9 and reached the quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament. 
USC (18-12) shot 32 percent (17 of 53) from the floor, includ­ing 7 of 34 on 3-pointers. The Gophers held Oklahoma to 31.3 percent shooting in their sec­ond-round NIT victory. 
Minnesota took a 30-28 lead 
with 56.7 seconds left in the 
first half when USC's Lorenzo 
Orr was called for goaltending 
on Lenard's layup. Townsend 
Orr gave the Gophers a four­
point halftime lead with a driv­
ing layup with 4.3 seconds left. 
After Orr scored to open the second half to make it 30-28, Minnesota outscored the Tro­jans 14-2 to lead 46-33 with 

12:53 to play. 
Alabama-Birmingham 61, SW Missouri St. 52 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -Flu­ridden Robert Shannon scored 18 points and Alabama­Birmingham finally had an NIT game that wasn't decided in the final seconds, defeating Southwest Missouri State 61-52 in the quarterfinals Wednesday. 
The Blazers (20-13) advanced to the semifinals Monday at Madison Square Garden, where they will play the winner of Thursday's game between Georgetown and Miami of Ohio. It also gave coach Gene Bartow his 10th 20-win season in 15 years as UAB coach. 
The Blazers, who reached the NIT final four in 1989, won their first two tournament games this year by a total of three points. 
Southwest Missouri State (20­
11) started off quickly in the second half, going up 35-30 with an 8-2 run. The Blazers responded with four straight baskets and went ahead for good on Clarence Thrash's layup with 8:12 remaining. 
The Bears got within 55-52 on Tony Graves' two free throws with 2:39 left, but that was their final points. Southwest Missouri failed to score on its final live trips down the floor. 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 

Courtesy of Providence Sports Information Junior forward Dickey Simpkins tied a career-high by pouring in 23 points in the Friars' 75-58 win over Boston College . 
Sophomores· and Freshmen 
PHILOSOPHY: 
Meet Your Majors 
Thursday., March 25 
6:00-7:00 p.m. 
Room 217 O"Shag 
Refreshments Served 
For further information contact Prof. David O'Connor Room 337 O'Shag, 1-7534 

Don't miss Friday Lunch 
Great Lenten Specials 12-2 
must be 21 

r--~---------~------------~---·------------------­
Today 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

IN TliM OR-ROW'S Ef'ISOIX' 
._____________j '-----------11---------___j 
CnWl30~ UNV[IL51HE PuB£-A-TI<oNI 
BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Pool person 56 Great Lakes 31 Entad 
channel breaker 1 Mona Van Duyn 61 Ex-president of
33 Looseness Aibania
creation 35 Midge5 Epee, e.g. 
62 Starlings'36 Blue Eagle org. 
to Type of toad 
activity 14 Husband of 
39 Uttered 65 Piscivorous 

Judith 40 Broadcast 
diving bird t5lditarod entrant 42 Souvenirs from 
66 Theater area the 50th 
t6 Enough, to 67 Piedmontese 
FitzGerald 43 Snipefish, e.g. 
wine center 17 Another name 44 Other 68 British -of for fan-tan 
45 Sudden spells Court 19 Consanguine-of activity 69Assail ous 47 Linen-closet 
70 Gripe 2oGist 
items 
49 Talent or poise21 Blacksmiths' 

DOWN
shaping blocks so Mugger stopper 23 Wren's "Beau 51 New York 1 "-leMoko," " Public Library Gabinfilm 26 Bard's twilight benefactor 2 Female bears: times 54 Discourages Sp. 3"1'mall-": Perot ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Donkey-horse 
offspring 5 Pair 6 Brocaded 25 Nine: Comb. 44Jug 55 Plant disease 

fabrics 

form 46 Lutetia, 57 Palmyra palm 7 Top of a suit 27 Blackthorn colloquially 58 Seine tributary 8 Retreat 28 Darnel 48 Great quantities 59 Part of A.M.
9Ascent, in 29 Euphoria so Casaba Catania 60 Preweekend 30 Nothing 52 Name "prayer"
10 Man's high silk 32 Paper-money 53 Musical grouphat 63 Hasten
rolls 54 Painter of 11 Severity 34 Nathan Hale's stunted pines 64 Burro 12 Frustrates alma mater 
t3 Has 37 Hoarfrost 
Get answers to any three clues
18 Pig's cousin 38 Man Fri. 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
41 Cuba, e.g. 

5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0211
24 Female felid 42 Part of U.N.L.V. 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL UPDRTE HHLL OF FHME GHME CAPTAINS' MEETING 
THIS THURSDAY
~liD~ liD 00 ~--~ !P lf:1l-~ 00 ® ® ~ ~miD 00 IE tC ®liD001T~ 
7 PM CUSHING AUDITORIUM
KEUIN PENDERGAST 
SCHEDULES WILL BE DISTRIBUTED
LOU HOLTZ THE 
THERE WILL BE A SHORT MEETING TO
JEROME BETTIS vs. FIVE 
GO OVER THE NEW RULES & ANSWER ?'S.
SKIP HOLTZ ELVISES 
BE THERE !!!
COQUESE WASHINGTON 
PRELIMINARY GAMES BEGIN WEDNESDAY,MARCH 31. 
J 
page 20 


The Observer/John Rock 
Senior Chuck Coleman's absence from last night's match almost cost the Irish a victory, as Michigan State gave them all they could handle in a 4-3 thriller. 
.-----MARCH"MADNESS-----, Men's volleyball falls to 14-5 with loss 
Kentucky battles Wake Forest tonight in NCAAs 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. (AP} ­For 31 games this season, Kentucky's Wildcats have done pretty much whatever they've wanted. Coach Hick Pitino fig­ures that's about to change. 
• More NCAAs/ pages16-17 
Wake Forest's bump-and­bruise, in-your-face style had Pitino sounding concerned on the eve of their meeting in Thursday's Southeast Regional semifinals. 
"They're very, very physical," Pitino said. "If you want to cut, they don't let you cut. They hold you off with their forearms -and their forearms are very big. They body you quite a bit. They're very ag­gressive inside. 
"When you've seen wins on the road like they've had, you know they're a very physical team." 
That list includes Atlantic Coast Conference victories at Duke, Virginia and Georgia Tech. 
"They have survived the very tough ACC and survived it well," Pitino said. 
Now the Demon Deacons (21-8) get to try to slow a Kentucky team that loves to run and av­erages nearly 10 3­pointers per game. 
"We're going to try to speed it up as much as possible," said Pitino, whose Wildcats (28-3) have won eight in a row. "But we've got to make sure that whether we play fast of slow, we must take good shots. That will be the key because I think this is a team that matches up very well with us." 
Nowhere is that matchup more evident than at the power forward spot, where all eyes will be on Kentucky's Jamal Mashburn and Wake Forest's Rodney Rogers. 

Sports 
Thursday, March 25, 1993 
Irish sneak past Spartans 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team survived a scare by the Michigan State Spartans last night, as Will Forsyth fought off a stubborn Mashiska Washington in the top singles match to wrap up a 4-3 win for the 16th-ranked Irish in front of a boisterous home crowd. 
Though the Spartans are not ranked, they are one of the strongest teams in the Midwest, and they more than proved that fact last night. 
Forsyth's match against Washington was the only one to go into three sets all night, as Forsyth came back after losing the first set 6-4 to dominate Washington 6-2, 6-3 in the final two stanzas. 
Washington is the MSO's top-ranked player and usually plays two-singles, but the freshman played up a notch for coach Gene Orlando and almost pulled off the upset. With the Irish's two-singles player, 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
It was a good news/bad news story for the Irish men's vol­leyball team Tuesday night. 
The bad news came at the end of the third game, when Wisconsin-Milwaukee finished off a three-game sweep (15-6, 15-12, 15-10) to drop the Irish's record to 14-5. 
The good news, according to assistant coach Dan Ka­vanaugh, is that the seeds are being sown for a strong per­formance at the weekend's MIVA tournament. 
Despite the sweep, "We played a lot better than we did Friday night," said Kavanaugh, referring to a spotty 3-2 loss to Central Michigan. "We hit a lot smarter tonight, as opposed to Friday." 
The Irish knew that OW-Mil­waukee, their first varsity op­ponent in some time, would be a formidable opponent, but players and coach felt that the Irish's performance was more than satisfactory. 
"The only way we could beat them was to do the basic things really well," said Kavanaugh. "We did, which gives me a good feeling about the tourney this weekend." 
Despite the tough opponent, the Irish were undaunted dur­ing the match, the importance of which was not lost on Ka­vanaugh and outside hitter Brian Ceponis. 
"We handled ourselves really well," said Ceponis. "We weren't too intimidated." 
Kavanaugh added, "A lot of club teams come in with a lousy attitude because of the differ­ence between a varsity and a club team." 
However, "UW's coach (Mike Fried) said that he was really impressed with how we main­tained our composure. We 

Junior Won Suh completes a dig as sophomore Matt Strottman looks on. 
Chuck Coleman, having to sit out since he played in an extra tournament this year and was above the amount of matches aloud by the NCAA, Orlando put Washington at one-singles in an attempt to clinch the match. 
The Irish started the match by winning all three doubles matches and winning the doubles point. Forsyth played with junior Allan Lopez, who was selected for El Salvador's Davis Cup team, and the two disposed of Wade Martin and Brad Pancer, 9-7. Mark Schmidt and Todd Wilson then won a tiebreaker 7-5 to salt a 9-8 win at two-singles and Ron Hosas and Chris Wojtalik pulled out an 8-5 victory at the three spot. 
Where the Irish got into trouble was at the three through five spots in the singles lineup. Irish coach Bob Bayliss had warned of the Spartans' talent at the middle-to-upper slots, saying, "They 
see IRISH/ page 14 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

NIT QUARTERFINALS Dickey Simpkins leads Providence over BC, while Minnesota crushes USC and UAB beats SW Missouri St. 
see page 18 
stood right up to them." 

The Irish were handicapped from the start. Middle hitter Matt Strottman was hobbled by a bad knee, which he re-injured in the match, and saw limited duty. The Irish were also without the services of backup Chris Murdy, who flew home Tuesday to attend his grandfather's funeral. 
The Irish hung tough against OW-Milwaukee in the early moments of game one. The score was knotted at 4-4, and both teams went through two serving rotations before scor­ing. 
However, when OW scored, they scored in bunches. Their disciplined, consistent play, fu­eled by yet another Irish pass­ing breakdown, led to a 15-6 UWvictory. 
OW pulled their starters in the second game, and the Irish were able to jump to a 10-6 lead. "We were serving well," said Ceponis, "which took their offense out of it." The game was tied at 12-12, but, as Pat Madden said, "Three hits later, they won it," due again to passing errors. 
Game three, a loose affair, saw Leo Casas move to the middle to replace Strottman, opening up the outside for rookies Miguel Ascencio and Bill Raney. The Irish were beaten 15-10 to end the match in three games. 
According to coach Ka­vanaugh, passing and defense will have to improve for the Irish to make an impact at the MIVA's. 
"Our passing has been spotty... we have to get some consistency there. And our an­ticipation could be better on de­fense." 
see VOLLEY/ page 12 
D~~D®rn SPORTS-----------­
TRADITIONS CLASH Calbert Cheaney leads Indiana against Louisville for the first time in the NCAA tournament. 
see page 17 


CREMINS MOVES ON Georgia Tech coach Bobby Cremins leaves to take over the top spot at South Carolina. 
see page 12 







