

Friday, November 19, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 54 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Observer apologizes 
DAVID KINNEY 
Editor-in-Chief 
Running a college newspaper is no easy task. With over 200 paid employ­ees and several hundred reporters. room for error is often great. Sometimes, we drop the ball. Sometimes it is an editor, sometimes a reporter, sometimes a manager. 
There are times at any newspaper that the proper channels fall apart, and a decision is made at a lower level when it should go across the desk of the editor-in-chief. 
Yesterday was one of those times. The Observer ran an advertisement from a group calling itself the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust. On its face, the advertise­ment argued that there is no proof that Jews were gassed by Germans in the Holocaust. But the underlying premise of the advertisement was that the Holocaust never actually happened. 
Proper channels at The Observer were ignored in this case. and the advertisement was published without the knowledge or approval of the General Board. The Observer regrets this oversight and apologizes for run­ning the advertisement. 
In fact, the advertisement has a long history. For two years, this group has submitted similar advertisements to college and high school newspapers around the country. Some have decided to run it, including The Ohio State University, the University of Michigan and Duke University. Certainly, it is within their rights legally. 
Others, including Columbia University, UCLA and the University of Virginia, have exercised their right to reject it. 
While the advertisement ran because of a failure in our review process. a majority of The Observer's General 
By JOHN LUCAS tors were taken into account, you where you want to be," Associate News Editor the final decision to covert Kirk said. "We were very suc­Cavanaugh came down to beds, cessful two years ago, and we 
A mixture of muted anger O'Hara said. The dorm was would like to be able to do it and concern for the future chosen to be converted because again." marked last night's closed it has. the 242 beds that will be In order to begin the reloca­meeting between residents of needed for females next fall. tion process, Kirk explained Cavanaugh Freshman John Bishop ques­that students will soon be asked Hall and tioned the choice of Cavanaugh for their preference for a new represen­
over Zahm, wondering if the dorm. Cavanaugh residents tatives of the hall was chosen because resi­will be placed in new dorms Office of dents would make "less of a with groups of their friends as Student fuss" ovt;Jr conversion. space allows, he said. Affairs. "How could you not choose Several students expressed 
Residents of Zahm?" he asked O'Hara. "I concern that by being put onto the hall were know how you're going to an­room pick lists by class, it will informed on Patricia O'Hara swer, but try to be honest." be difficult to end up in the Wednesday "I've been called a lot of same sections and on the same evening that Cavanaugh would things here at Notre Dame­floors as their friends. be converted to a female resi­most of them unprintable," "We understand that it is in dence effective in the fall of O'Hara replied. "But I have the best interest of the 1994. never been called scared. I University for everyone to sac­
Patricia O'Hara. vice-presi­wasn't scared to take Zahm." rifice a little bit," one resident dent for Student Affairs and While Cavanaugh and Zahm said. "But by going onto room William Kirk, assistant vice­are of virtually equal size, pick lists like everyone else, president for Student Affairs, O'Hara cited staff considera­what kind of sacrifice are they came to Cavanaugh hoping to tions as one of the deciding fac­(other students) making?" answer questions about both tors. The University can easily Other than a promise that the reasons for conversion as relocate Cavanaugh rector the Office of Student Affairs well as plans for an efficient Father Merwyn Thomas, while would try its hardest to ac­relocation. it would be a larger displace­commodate all students, 
During the emotional two ment for Zahm rector Father O'Hara said that special room hour meeting, O'Hara and Kirk Thomas King. pick concessions would not be answered a wide variety of stu­Although the decision to con­made. dent concerns ranging from the vert the dorm is final, both "A year or two from now motives of the University to the stressed that the cooperation of downstream, we hope that you retirement of the Cavanaugh residents is crucial to making end up living with a circle of name. relocation efficient. your friends from Cavanaugh, 
Although many different fac-"We will try our best to get see CAVANAUGH I page 6 


--------~----~-~----------~­
INSIDE COLUMN 

Family, Tradition, Cavanaugh 
To the men of Cavanaugh: 
After two and a half years of living in the 'Naugh, I feel that I can say with confidence that the three words of this head­line belong together. 

To me the "Notre Dame family" begins in the dorm and the traditions and legacy of the men who have lived in Cavanaugh Hall typify all ------­
that Notre Dame stands for. As I looked around at our meeting tonight, I saw the faces of men I was proud to say I lived with. , 
I saw freshmen who were upset that they had to start over again. Most of them had made the adjustment to college life, but now they are once again uncertain about their lives at Notre Dame. Sophomores who have a solid base o friends in the dorm and now are forced to decide which are the five to ten guys they most want to live with in their new dorms. There were juniors who wanted to be R.A.'s and seniors who won't be able to come back and wander the halls to see people they remember. 
These are the unfortunate realities when the administration converts a dorm. The factors which they look at are dollars and cents but that doesn't make it any easier for us and the thousands of past Cavanaugh residents who now must deal with the end of a tradition. 
The building will remain but the people will never be the same. 
The continuity of experiences and traditions served to bond Cavanaugh alumni to the pre­sent. It was this continuous transfer from one group of guys to the next that kept the spirit o the dorm alive. 
Now, that tradition will come to an end. 
Rich in history and full of the intangible which we call "dorm spirit", we will always remember the Cavanaugh where we've lived for the past few years as truly a special place. 
I remember arriving freshman year and immediately realizing why I was at Notre Dame. Time progressed and I began to take part in the many traditions which I had heard about during freshman orientation. I'll never forget the first time I played section football or yelled at Zahm or went to mass in the Cavanaugh chapel. 
Sophomore year, we got some new faces and some good friends left, but the tradition o Cavanaugh continued. We still had "section dances" and late-night talks in the hall ways. 
This year, I crossed the hump and was halfway done with my Notre Dame experience. The new freshmen came in and picked up the tradition where the departed seniors had left off. Old friends came back to crash on my couch for a game or just to visit. 
The point here is that the faces changed but the traditions continued. 
Our society is defined by our history, our tra­ditions. The tradition of excellence will be maintained in Cavanaugh until the end. 
You come to Notre Dame and fate puts you in a dorm. Random chance may place you in a building, but the people within those walls make you love it. People return to a room, and they immediately begin to reminisce about the people they spent time with within those four walls. Hemember that the four walls may now house women but the memories still remain. 
Hemember that Cavanaugh Hall is still The Pride of North Quad. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Etc. 
Emily Hage Elisabeth Heard 
Liz Foran Chris Weirup 
Sports Jen Guerin 
Jason Kelly Graphics 
Production Brendan Regan Bridgette Farrell Lab Tech Vivian Gembara Eric Ructhling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhli>hed Monday through Friday C'Xcept during exam and \'acalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associau:d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
o a (Df­·---·-­~K--(Smarter idiot box  
many people and dozens of companies are "'\ getting in the game. A sampling of test markets ~ ~ 0 and trials: ~ • 'l' ' l -----· ~ COMPANY WHERE WHAT START SUBSCRIBERS • GTE-CenterScreen Cerritos, Calif. Near video on demand 1990 7,500J  
GTE-Main Street Cerritos, Calif., Carlsbad, News, education, travel, shopping, 1988-89 3,000 Calif.; surburban Boston investment management \ GTE· ImagiTrek Cerritos, Calif. Cable TV programs 1992 250 i ' supplemented by compact disc Interactive Network Northern California, TV show and sports interactivity 1992 3,330--\ Chicago area (end~~-l  


l

IT Network Denton, Texas Information, movie reviews, music Nov. Up to 150 i sampler, TV guide, horoscope 
'"" 

-I 
i

NTN Communications United States, Canada TV show and sports interactivity 1985 1,300 
............ 


i 
Southern New England West Hartford, Conn. Video on demand 1994 About500 I Telephone I 
...

--
··-··-------,~ 
-j

Tele-Communications Inc. Redwood City, Calif. Video on demand 1994 400 
i 
I 

Time Warner Cable Orlando, Fla. Video on demand, shopping, I education, games 1994 4,000 
·······~ 

US West Denver Video on demand, shopping 1994 10,000 \ 'I Viacom Castro Valley, Calif. Video on demand, 1994 12,500 electronic TV guide 
-~~-· 

Source: Dataquest, BIS Strategic Decisions, company reports AP 
lnteractivity : Hype or television for the 90's? 
guide, hear full-motion sound bites of New York Cov. 
NEW YORK Mario Cuomo nominating Bill Clinton for president. They 
Three nights a week at 7 p.m., Manhattan cable channel draw multicolored lines, watch a guy describe his bike 
37 cuts from the chat show "Realty Views" to a spinning route in Queens, read pro-feminist, anti-homeless, happy 
green orb with a message: "Fly the Electronic birthday and get-well messages, view an animated film 
Neighborhood." For the next hour, about a dozen home about civil rights. It may not seem like much, but partici­
viewers use their telephone keypads to navigate a 3-D pants in this New York University experiment are pio­
world studded with graphic icons -a bicycle, a tree, a neers in interactive television -a field larded with hype 
paint brush, a Zen temple -that contain multimedia but also the potential to change America's couch culture 
fare. They tour a Russian palace, peruse a cable TV in the 21st century. 
More marital mutilation in America Donahue implicated in lawsuit 
LOS ANGELES AUSTIN, Texas 
A woman accused of cutting off her sleeping husband's The Texas Supreme Court rejected a woman~s claim testicles with a pair of 5-inch scissors will be allowed to that she suffered emotional damage when her mother spend the holidays with him, a judge ruled Thursday. revealed on the "Donahue" show that the woman was Aurelia Macias, 35, is charged with spousal battery and raped by her stepfather as a child. After the show was mayhem in the attack on her 39-year-old husband, broadcast on Jan. 5, 1989, Nancy Anonsen filed a lawsuit James, who she claimed was abusive and had extramari-against her mother, Miriam Booher; Phil Donahue; tal affairs. She has pleaded innocent to both counts, "Donahue" producer Jose Pretlow; and a Houston televi­which carry a maximum 12 years in prison upon convic-sion affiliate that showed the broadcast. Without com­tion, said district attorney's spokeswoman Sandi Gibbons. ment, the state Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld Trial was set for Jan. 6. Both Macias and her husband lower court rulings rejecting the lawsuit. Anonsen's attor­had asked Superior Court Judge Marsha Revel to lift a ney, David Berg, said he will appeal. "This is a case we restraining order against her so the couple could spend anticipated taking to the Supreme Court of the United Thanksgiving and Christmas with their three children, States and that is the next stop," Berg said. Supreme ages 18 months to 17 years. Macias told authorities he Court Supreme Court." fell asleep on Sept. 20, 1992, then felt a sharp pain in his groin. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 19. 

Friday, Nov. 19 

Accu-Weal her'" forecast for daytime condilions and high temperatures 
....,......... ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressurs 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS V111 AJSociBr9d Pross 
C 1993 Accu-Wealher, Inc 
FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

H L Chicago 38 20 Miami H2 69 
Columbus 38 27 Milwaukee 33 21 Arlanra 55 3 Dallas 58 32 New Orleans 60 49 Atlanta 55 39 Denver 53 22 New York 46 39 Baltimore 48 38 London 43 36 Philadelphia 52 46 Boston 50 40 LosAngeb 60 53 Phoenix 7S 47 
Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Budgetary restraints, changing needs thwart campaign promises 
By LYNN BAUWENS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Problems with budgetary re­straints and the changing needs of students have made it diffi­cult for Student Body President MaryBeth Wilkinson and Vice­President for Academic Affairs Lynn O'Donnell to fulfill all of their campaign promises. 
Wilkinson and O'Donnell cap­tured 75.5% of the vote in last January's Board of Governance (BOG) election and began implementing their goals in March when they officially took office. 
"We aim to begin a compre­hensive recycling program, 24­hour access to the computer lab laser printers, continued devel­opment of Dalloway's, new equipment, specifically Stairmasters in Angela Athletic Facility, and easier CO-EX sys­tems for meals between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," they told The Observer during last year's campaign. 
The equipment was pur­chased for Angela after BOG submitted a proposal for the Stairmasters to the administra­tion and coordinated efforts with last year's Athletic Director, Jo-ann Nester. 


"We got four of them," said Wilkinson. The Stairmasters were installed over the summer and were ready for student use at the beginning of the semes­ter. 
"One of our primary goals was recycling," said Wilkinson. However, she added, the com­prehensive plan has been dropped in light of a cost-bene­fit analysis. "It would be more expensive (for the college) to recycle," she said. 
Creating a student space in Dalloway's Coffeehouse was also a high priority for BOG. While money has been given to the renovated clubhouse to con­tinue evening hours, the new hours in the dining hall prevent the need to keep Dalloway's open during the day. 
Although disappointed that the clubhouse has not become more of a space for students and faculty, Wilkinson said that she thinks it is a success. 
To increase student and alumnae connections, Vice­

.
~­
~ ~ 
I 
! 
President for Academic Affairs Lynn O'Donnell has initiated an "Eye on Alumnae" series. It sponsored three Saint Mary's graduates as speakers this semester and plans to add to the program next semester. 
O'Donnell is also drafting a proposal concerning the senior comprehensives, working to­wards equalizing requirements between departments. "It is an ongoing project," said Wilkinson. 
After research, Wilkinson dis­covered that 24-hour access to laser printers in campus com­puter labs is not possible at this time. One of the obstacles is that student workers would have to work through the night to maintain access. However, the regular hours have been extended and there are plans for additional extensions the week before finals. 
Problems with CO-EX, the cooperative system between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's dining halls, was also dis­cussed. One of the major prob­lems was limitations on the availability of the exchange tickets. 

"The problem with the CO-EX system was not being able to get lunch," said Wilkinson. 
After conferring with stu­dents, Wilikinson said that this did not seem like a high prior­ity, and plans to improve the current system have been dropped. 
The increased activity fee for this year enabled BOG and the Student Activities Board to sponsor more events on cam­pus. 
According to Wilkinson, BOG has not spent more money than any other semester. "The money has been sunk into stu­dent activities for students," she said. 
This year was the first year that BOG appointed the coordi­nator of SAB from a pool of ap­plicants. In the past, the coor­dinator was an elected position but the appointment ensured a qualified and experienced leader, according to Wilkinson. 
Regarding the benefits of the increased activity fee, Jill Hotek, coordinator of the SAB said, "My goals were to include more events so there were 
qim VM.ooney ... ~ou ftnally made lt!! (_Happy • 
~il~l! e ~irthday!! 
..C..ove, Vltom. 'Dad. and 
<](atht-~ '92 

MARA FOX 
WE WILL REMEMBER NOVEMBER 12, 1993. 
BE SENSIBLE: CALL A CAB. A FRIEND. YOUR RECTOR. YOUR RA. USE WEEKEND WHEELS 
DON"T DRIN~ AND DRIVE 
events for everyone," she added, "We've been able to not only have more programs, but to increase the quality. We've come pretty far." 
Since classes began in August, there have been 16 SAB-sponsored programs. In the same three-month last year, there were only seven, accord­ing to Marlene Johnson, Assistant Director of Student Activities. 
These events included the free outdoor concert by Oliver Syndrome in September that drew a crowd of 350. However, the average attendance for all the events including the movie series was only 124 students out of a student body of 1500, said Johnson. 
Not all of the students on campus have seen the benefits of the increased activity fee. 
"I don't really see the funds as helping," said Saint Mary's junior Kathleen Petit, regarding the allocation of the increased activity fee. 
"A lot of the effort that goes into student government never shows. That's part of the job," said Wilkinson regarding this year's accomplishments. "It's been a challenge." 
Looking towards BOG's plan for next year, Wilkinson said that she is not making any pre­dictions. 
"The system depends upon itself. This is the first time that a younger student hasn't been groomed for the position. So it will be interesting to see who is elected." 
Meanwhile, BOG will be ad­dressing issues surrounding the upcoming Keenan Revue and continuing work on coor­dinating equal comprehensive 
requirements  between  de­ 
partments.  
........r:=:-·.  
~-I  
. '  ~  
rr l  
i  
l  

~~I 
l l 
! 
l 
l l 
i 
l 
i 
l 
l 
l 
l 
l 



t1IE WOJ.IE.H OF LYOn HALL 



ByW. HUDSON GILES 
News Writer 
John F. Kennedy was the vic­tim of a conspiracy initiated by Lyndon Johnson, J. Edgar Hoover and a mercenary divi­sion of the CIA to insure the enactment of the Vietnam war, according to Bob Morris in his lecture last night, "Who Shot J.F.K.?" 
The actual events that tran­spired on November 22,1963 in Dealey Plaza may never be recovered, but Morris sup­ported that it was part of a con­spiracy. 
Morris examined different angles of the conspiracy against Kennedy, ranging from right and left extremist groups to a private detachment ordered by Khrushchev in collaboration with the KGB. 
He said that the many theo­ries that have circulated are to some degree justifiable. 
The suggestion that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone is as absurd today as it was in 1964 when the Warren Report was released, he said. 
"There is too much evidence that contradicts the lone gun­man theory," he went on to say. 
The possibility of a militant Cuban group acting in retalia­tion to the attempts made on Fidel Castro's life is reasonable to some extent, he said, but far 
CORRECTION 
In an article yesterday. The Observer incorrectly stated the nature of Notre Dame's admissions policy. Notre Dame does not cur­rently have gender blind admissions. The Observer regrets the error. 
PAss ALONG AN HEIRLOOM MORE VALUABLE THAN GOLD. 

;~~~~r:< ... 

.·.·....... :~;tC:~~:'. 
.. -~ ·, •,..
-~­
--.­
x·· • 
.·,.-=­

more simplistic than the ex­perts could agree to. 
He added that the Mafia, who had financed JFK's campaign almost entirely, might have taken the drastic measures in order to spite Bobby Kennedy, who was focused on disman­tling America's organized crime. Even that theory is widely disputed, he said. 
"Kennedy was no dove either, he wanted covert operations," Morris said. 
Most hard evidence blames ENSAM 273, the document that would deliver all troops in Southeast Asia home by Christmas of 1965, for Kennedy's murder, according to Morris. 
There was discontent on the part of the CIA because JFK had plans to reorganize the CIA's structure, he said. 
"He intended to take away the CIA's active ability and give it to the Joint Chiefs of Staff," according to Morris 
Unfortunately, said Morris, there are flaws with every one of these assumptions. He added that," It is also hard to accept that like Oswald, Ruby was a crazed lunatic acting on his own principles." 
Morris suggested the possi­bility of secret meetings in the basement of the White House with the National Security 
.. 
' 

255 ..6868 
313 W. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka 
Council and radical fascist or­ganizations as the hosts of the evenings agenda. 
He noted that the National Archives, in conjunction with the CIA, FBI, and Pentagon released some 800,000 pages of classified documents recently due to a direct order from Congress. He noted, however, that many of the documents have been heavily blacked out or replaced by pink slips stamped "Restricted." 
Morris expanded on specific names in order to prove his point. The Warren Commission, composed by Johnson, is said to have been nothing but a group of disinter­ested politicians whom Johnson knew would take no action to­wards an in-depth investiga­tion. 
Their purpose, he said, was only to appease a confused America who turned towards their new president for an­swers. 
He said that contradictions to the lone gunman theory make the fourth bullet and grassy knoll possibilities all the more conceivable. 
While no one can point the finger at a specific individual or group, Morris indicated there is much more to be learned about the conspiracy plot. 
+ 
N 
McKinley/US 20 


The Observer/ScottMendenhall 

Bob Morris delivers his interpretation of "Who Shot JFK?" in a comedy/political commentary last night. 
leara why thitly fUn ttt hthe ilf, tH ••eha~ted •rw."
A ,_,, :~/''· 
•Ce•ahat, 20/20 (ABC) 
•Ce~~t•lltnt, Kt•••f(NBCJ
•Ceat•lflnt, NOI (PIS) . 
•Mmer, Cellfor•la Sfttt Arc\IRI 
Monday, November 22 
1

§AB 7:3o p.m. 1 51"0'~11 0" ghlin Audito .
ft

:cJ<l'1i'6: wU r1ummmR M111lulon: *1 Doalllo• Preeeea will 10 to the NIPSCO Solllh Btncl Hnt Fancl 
BRUNO'S DELIVERS!! 
Weekend Special: 18in-2items $14.00 14 in-2items $10.00 For Carry Out/Delivery call 
273-3890 

r-------------_...-------------~------~~­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 19, 1993 
SMC student pursues college dream Clinton to host Pacific forum 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 

with 'Realizing the Dream' Lilly grant 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
Amanda Weppler always knew she would go to college. The Saint Mary's sophomore had the support she needed from her friends and family, but being the first member of her family to attend college could have been enough to make her think twice before continuing her education. 
"A lot of people asked me how and why I decided to go, but it had always been under­stood in my family ... that I was well educated...and would go on to college," said Weppler. 
She was recently recognized for her decision to come to Saint Mary's by Indiana's "Realizing the Dream" pro-
Cavanaugh 
conrinued from page 1 
as well as new friends in your new dorm," O'Hara said. "But starting off with preferential treatment runs counter to that idea." 
The closing of a male resi­dence hall was necessary to ac­commodate a decision made by the officers of the University, O'Hara said. During their Nov. 1 meeting, the Board of Trustees decided to stay with a 45/55 percent ratio of men to women. The Cavanaugh deci­sion was required to keep that ratio, she said. 
Among the other alternatives that Student Affairs considered was the reconfiguration of study lounges in female dorms 
gram. Funded by a Lilly 

Endowment  grant  to  the  
Independent  Colleges  and  
Universities  of  Indiana,  

"Realizing the Dream" honors both first-generation college students and the teachers who inspired them. 
Weppler named Marilyn Malone of Marian Heights Academy in Ferdinand, IN, as being the teacher most influen­tial in helping her make her educational plans. 

"(Malone) was a teacher at my boarding school and she was very concerned with her students. She went the extra mile to make sure students were adapting well," Weppler explained. 
Weppler had transferred to 

the private boarding school in her junior year in high school because she "really wasn't happy with the education" she was receiving at a public school, and admitted that she "didn't feel that it was challeng­ing enough" there. 
Nominated by Saint Mary's for her academic record and leadership qualities, Weppler only found out about being hon­ored by the program a week before the Oct. 30 awards ban­quet in Indianapolis. 
In the name of Weppler and the "Realizing the Dream" pro­gram a $500 contribution was made to Marian Heights for the general scholarship fund, and to Malone for use in the class­room. 
and the possibility of what 'Tm not here to say that this O'Hara termed a "flip-flop," is not a big deal-that's not true which involved a larger male here," Kirk said. "Everything dorm trading with a smaller about the residence hall system 
female dorm. is designed to make you feel 
Although all alternatives strongly about where you live." were considered, the conver­sion of a male dorm was the "We have a challenge-a sit­most painful, but also the most uation to cope with and deal practical, according to Kirk with and go on with our lives," and O'Hara. said Thomas. 

---------------------. 
Chinese -American · Restaurant & Cockt11il Lounge 
1>.uthentic Szechuan, Mandarin & HWtan Cuisir.~ 

Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Vott:d Be:-~
Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 
Ori~ntal Restaurant

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana bv 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Mic/Jiana No\_;,/
-(nexttn Randall's Inn) '. 
----------------------~~~~==~~~-=~ 
SEATTLE 
President Clinton, claiming a strengthened hand from his congressional victory on trade, vowed Thurs. to work to "drive down trade barriers" around the world as the host of a con­ference of Asian and Pacific leaders. 
Likening himself to a "rug merchant" hawking U.S. goods overseas, Clinton told an air­port rally that if the Asia­Pacific Economic Cooperation conference is successful, "we can create jobs here and jobs across the Pacific." 
Participants in the conference predicted House approval of free-trade legislation would help move forward stalled glob­al trade talks. 
Standing inside an airfield hangar operated by The Boeing Co., the nation's largest exporter and the manufacturer of his presidential jumbo jet, Clinton said: "I thought I ought to bring Air Force One home." 
Buoyed by Wed. night's hard­fought House victory on the North American Free Trade Agreement, Clinton said: "We come here today hoping to drive down trade barriers" as well as promoting new trade opportunities and economic growth. 
Security was tight and traffic slowed as Seattle welcomed one of the nation's largest gath­erings of heads of state outside the United Nations. 
Protesters demonstrated for everything from Tibetan inde­pendence to more public toilets as multiple motorcades snaked through town. 
"No great nation can succeed without trade. Every economy here is proof of the importance of trade," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said as he opened the 15-member confer­ence. "All of us here are com­mitted to an open global trad­ing system that will spur eco­nomic growth." 

~T~~ 
~ '\0~ 0~~ ((J 
We're the holiday discount store specializing in overstocks, closeouts and discontinued lines -many of them name brands. We're locally operated and we're here from now until Christmas only. 
North Village Mall 52565 US 31/33 North (219) 271,1150 
Monday , Saturday 10 a.m. , 8 p.m. Sunday Noon, 5 p.m. 
You're supposed 
toget alot out ofcollege,
Out this is ridiculous. 

Maciulasb LC 475 4/00, Apple Color Plus Maciulosb Quadra* 610 8/1(/J, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple Keyboard II and mouse. 14" Duplay, AI'Jlle Keyboard II and mouse. 
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds ofprograms you need most. Programs to organize select Macintosh' or PowerBook"computer, you'll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy software programs. Its all included in one low price. And the software an Apple~ computer? It does more. It costs less. Its that simple. 1 package alone has acombined SRP value of $596~ It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 
-

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
"liast'tl on the mmbined Suli!le<ted Retail PrieRs ISliP) o(the product•· m 7be Gtllll/1"' Softu<l1'f! Set for Madnt<Mh '"'-of (ktoberl, 1993. ,\11/fu'<lre is not included m tbe oriRilwl product packrwin~: as shmm in tbi1 ad Bul }"U u•i/1 rea'it•e these .wne .~1/fu'llre prt>J:rams man mtt~'1'<1tt'tl packaxefrom Apple. @1993 Ap{lle r.oiii/Juier. Inc. All nxhtl· resert•ed Apple, the AfJP/e loJiO. Jtacmtosh. Mawtt<J,Ih Quadra amll'ou,.,.Book are rt'Ri<lered trademarks ofAN1Ie (.hmputer, Inc. l'ou·erHook Duo i< a trademark o[Afiple Computr.,._ hie 

---~----------~---­
Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • NAFTA 
Changes may be rough in Mexico 
By jOHN RICE 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Everybody here agrees that a free trade treaty with the United States is a historic change for Mexico. The coun­try's monuments to martyrs of 
U.S. invasion testify to that. 
But most don't believe major changes will come quickly. And increased U.S. interest may be uncomfortable for a country that has made independence from the United States a watch­word for generations. 
The North American Free Trade Agreement, which passed its major hurdle Wednesday night with passage by the U.S. House of Representatives, will mean a greater U.S. economic role in Mexico and by Mexico in the United States. 
It will mean greater U.S. scrutiny and criticism of Mexico's oft-criticized version of democracy. No Mexican gov­ernment has given up power after an election in more than 120 years. 
As You WisH IMPORTS 
Christmas Sale!! 
Get unique handmade Christmas Gifts at just above WHOLESALE or CLEARANCE prices! 
Imported jewelry, Clothing, and accessories from: 
Guatemala Peru Mexico Greece Afghanistan Nepal India 
(Also 3/ines ofjewelry by American artists.) 
LaFortune Room 108 (near TV). Nov. 22-Nov. 24 and Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 (Sat.) 11:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 

Make your next move to Hickory Village and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, 
Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spaciol.is and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and mud1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bodrooms from $345 
Pool &Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Nr Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Adivilies with Free A"Jrobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how aHordable apartment living can be. 

Mexico has spent much of that time trying to keep the United States from meddling in its affairs. 
The loss of what is now the western United States still ran­kles in Mexico. A holiday hon­ors the cadets who jumped to their death rather than surren­der to U.S. invaders at Chapultepec castle in 1847. 
Mexicans blame a U.S. ambassador for encouraging the 1913 assassination of their first elected president of this century, Francisco Madero. Coins and bills commemorate the nationalization of U.S. oil holdings in 1938. 
"The national interests of Mexico have been defined (until now) ... as a distance from the United States. And now they are defined as a union," said political historian Lorenzo Meyer. 
"That union requires a price and that price is that the Mexican elite cannot have the independence it had before." 
Mexico has already aban­
doned its former protectionism. Under President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, the country has thrown open its doors to imports and investments, sold off most state companies and slashed the fat at others. 
NAFT A helps cement that path. It should also help knock down Mexico's high interest rates. But it will take 15 years to push down the remaining barriers to U.S. and Canadian goods. 
"A lot of people are going to look at it next week saying, 'Where are all these things starting to happen?' They're not going to see those kind of changes happening," said Roderic Camp, a noted Mexico specialist from Tulane University in New Orleans. "It's going to be a slow, gradual change." 
Most experts say NAFTA also probably won't do much to cut illegal immigration anytime soon. It will take many years to create the jobs here that Mexicans need for a rapidly growing population. 
And few expect it to have much impact on the 1994 elec­tion, when Salinas is expected to hand over power to a ruling party candidate he selects. 
But American politicians ranging from Vice President AI Gore to former President Jimmy Carter argue that NAFTA would give the United States influence to prod Mexico toward democracy. 
NAFTA "is going to permit a kind of supervision ... for exam­ple in the environment but also in politics, a greater U.S. pres­ence," said political journalist Miguel Angel Granados Chapa. 
"**** 

STARTLINGLY PROFOUND••• 
afilm of uncommon wisdom, delicacy and humor." 
·lawrence Fnmlla, US MAGAZINE 

"EXTRAORDINARY••. 
brims over with humor and heartbreak." 
-Peter Tnms, ROLLING STONE 

"ONE OF 1993'S BEST FILMS. 

Engages your mind and heart ..." 
~Jay Carr, BOSTON GLOBE Glil1an Armstron~ film 

the last days of chez nous 
Astory of lust. betrayal. and other family values. F FINELINE 
fEATURES 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
-HARRY'S 
Restaurant & Bar 
(Formerly-Fisherman sWharfi On Eagle Lake Road just north ofU.S. 12 Edwardsburg, MI. (616) 699-5113 
Michiana's Newest Restaurant Steaks -Prime Rib -Chops ­B-B-QRibs -Seafood -Pasta ­Salads-Lighter Fare-Daily Specials 
Reservations Suggested Open Tues-Sun at 5:00pm 
page 7 
NAFTA 
\;,.~ 

That process of integration has already led to an addition-
By ~~l'ving ;~ n c~tklyf!t f~f' al 350,000 U.S. jobs ,,,pecans~ 
economic integration, the exports from America to 
North American Free Trade Mexico have increased six fold 
Agreement (NAFTA) approved since 1986. at a value of 30 
by r;';';n; the . Hou~~ yo~ billion dollars to the lJ.S. econ­
Representat es Wednesday · omy, said Bustamante. 
will Opponents of NAFTA, how­
ever, ~ave grossly exaggeratl;ld the impact the trade· agree,. ment will have on the American economy, he said, aud have overlooked the many benefits thatltwill bring. 
One inherent benefit of the agreement lies within its re­gional economic strategy, which is designed to produce 
..• PttPct!l on a medium and long 
nu>viiilA'Pmrt onll.eir pro-c 
.M.~IXUJO,.American 
companies will . able to maintain their jobs in the U.S, because the overall production costs will decrease," said Bustal1lante. · 
"'I:J;iat NAFTA repr¢sents a loss' of jobs in the U.S; and a win for Mexici) is simply false,~ 

····· the trade''m~thods · 
that Will usher in are not a, radica,l change fro!ll those put in.~u practice when MeJ~;ico entered the General Agreement on Trade and Tarif . (G'(\'I:TJ iQ 198fif 
Bu ante said. ;.,.. .... "NAFTA is not going to ere-ate a.ny-thing new-it .will only accelerate . a process of integration begun with GATT," 
· J:l~~ Bustamante. 

'"The main objective is to tnak:e the economies of three countries more competitive as a region, particularly vis a vis Japan and Europe," he said. 
As a member of the advisqry committee for NAFTA Mexican neg()tiation, Bustamante, who is a citizen .of Mexico, is in a unique position to analyze tlie ramifications of the trade agreement. The advisory com­ll1ittee was .. appointed by President Carlos Salinas to ad­vise Mexican negotiators on the agreement's legislation. 
Bustamante was appointed to the committee due to his position as president of The 
Institute of the Northern Border, a group that re­searches economics, the envi­ronment, and.urban growth in the Mexican-American border. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MON., NOV. 15 

6:55 a.m. Security responded to a two car minor accident at the Support Services Dock. There were no injuries reported. 
10:30 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported his license plate was stolen from his vehicle while parked in the 002 south parking lot. 
TUES., NOV.16 

10:48 a.m. An off-campus student reported his bicylce seat stolen while his bike was parked at the Hecburgh Library. 
11 :04 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported receiving a harassing telephone call. 
7:30 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident re­ported receiving harassing mail. 
WED., NOV.17 

4:30 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 
8:47 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported bookbag was stolen from a table on the first floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
Thousands demand peace Aidid emerges from hiding as hero 
in Northern Ireland  By NEJLA SAMMAKIA Associated Press  The search for Aidid in his southern Mogadishu stronghold  ern Mogadishu and parts of central Somalia.  
had effectively stopped after a  At the rally, three men played  
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK  Catholic high school student  MOGADISHU, Somalia  fierce battle in early October  electric drums and guitars as  
Associated Press  who joined the rally in Omagh,  Fresh from forcing a U.N.  killed 18 American soldiers and  Aidid addressed the crowd in  
65 miles west of Belfast. He  retreat on an order for his  more than 300 Somalis.  his first public appearance in  

BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
Tens of thousands of people 

stood silently in the classrooms 
and town squares of Northern 
Ireland on Thursday, praying 
for the peace their land hasn't 
known in a generation. 
The crowds -believed the largest one-day turnout for peace ever in Northern Ireland -showed a community tired of nearly a quarter century of po­litical and sectarian violence over British rule of the province. 
More than 50,000 people in 16 cities and towns braved icy winds to rally at midday, ac­cording to the Irish Congress of Trade Unions. The group orga­nized rallies in response to the past month's killings of 27 peo­ple. 
In London, Prime Minister John Major repeated his com­mitment to allow Sinn Fein, the Irish Republican Army's politi­cal allies, to join talks if the outlawed IRA stops its 23-year campaign against British rule. 
Major told lawmakers in the House of Commons the violence was kept going by "a feeling that the dead must be endlessly avenged and that any ac­commodation with the opposing viewpoint would betray those who have died. 
"The right memorial to the dead is, surely, to make sure no one else is killed," he said. 
A phone-in "vote for peace" project set up by Belfast's two morning newspapers attracted more than 120,000 calls in Northern Ireland by late Thursday, British Telecom said. 
Students in hundreds of Roman Catholic and Protestant schools also stood for a min­ute's silence in prayer for the 3,100 people slain in the con­flict since 1969 by all sides. 
The violence comes from the IRA, which draws support from the province's minority Catholic community, and pro-British paramilitaries based in Protestant areas. Police and soldiers also have killed about 350 people. 
"People like me, we've never known anything but the trou­bles," said Connor McKee, a 

MARIGOLD MAI.(KET 

TA\LGAff·.d~ 
PICN\~5~-~ 
~~enmlrs 
CHEESE~ A~ ~PATES~ 
~HoRs o·omvm 
arrest, Gen. Mohamed Aidid In ordering a new inquiry into 
said the demonstrations 
emerged from hiding Thursday attacks on U.N. peacekeepers,showed the politicians and gun­for a jubilant greeting from the Security Council also sug­
men "the ordinary people of 4,000 shouting, dancing and gested Tuesday that 35 of
Northern Ireland are sick of violence.'' 
drumming supporters. Aidid's men would be released By far, the largest rally was Militiamen with rocket-pro­soon. The vote recognized that pelled grenades and automatic a political solution required the
outside Belfast's ornate city rifles guarded him when his participation of Aidid and his
hall. More than 20,000 people van drove into a marketplace Somali National Alliance alongfilled the square and surround­ing streets. 
for his faction's weekly "peace" with other factions. "This is the first time that in­rally. Crowds pressed around "He obviously has a lot of 
the van, women danced to the power in Mogadishu," U.S. spe­
dustry, both unions and em­
sound of drums and people cial envoy Robert Oakley told
ployers, local government, the churches and people them­beat the sand with their hands. reporters after meeting with 
The celebration came two Aidid before the rally. "The
selves have spoken with one days after the U.N. Security United States realized we made
voice," said Tom Gillen, secre­tary of the Irish Congress of Council lifted an arrest warrant a mistake getting involved.... 
for Aidid that had put a I'm glad to see the U.N.
Trade Unions. 
$25,000 reward on his head. It Security Council changed was issued in June after militia­course."
"I hope our politicians have men of his clan faction were Aidid, who leads one of the

been watching this," Gillen 
blamed for attacks that killed country's 15 major factions. is asaid, "and will get into a room 24 Pakistani soldiers. powerful force mainly in south-
and get a solution for all of us." Thursday's scenes contrasted sharply with the hatred 
University of Notre DameWednesday night in Belfast's International Study Program in

Windsor Park stadium, where about 10,000 Protestants 
watched their Northern Ireland soccer team tie 1-1 with the Republic of Ireland. 
A few hundred Irish fans were protected by flak-jacketed police, but locals screamed in­sults at them throughout the 


match. Some chanted "trick or treat" -a reference to the words Protestant gunmen used 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 

before riddling a crowded pub 1994 • 95 Academic Year
with bullets on the night before Halloween, killing seven. "It bordered on savagery the 
"THE TOLEDO PROGRAM AND YOUR NOTRE DAME CURRICULUM"

way they directed their taunts at us," said one of the Irish Withfans, Dublin businessman Eoin Professor Carlos Jerez-FarranDawson. "When Ireland scored Keith Eppich, Senior Returnee of Programwe were hesitant to stand up and cheer, the intimidation was 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

that severe.... Those people 
4:30P.M.

just hated us for being Irish 
ROOM 213 DEBARTOLO 

Catholics." 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MINNESOTA INTRODUCES AN EXCLUSIVE PENCIL DRAWING TO BENEFIT ITS SCHOLARSHIP FUND 

r--------------------------------------------------------­
Framed Diploma Holder 

TO ORDER: Send the completed Order Form along with a check payable to The Notre Dame Club of Minnesota Scholarship Fund to the address shown below: The Notre Dame Club of Minnesota Ship to: 

c/o Tom Novitzki 908 Jefferson Lane Eagan, Minnesota 55123-1998 
Please allow 3-4 weeks for delivery. Shipping via UFS in continental U.S. only. This brochure ana all artwork illustrations are copyrighted by the artist. 
Packacina Total Quantity &. Shlpplns Prlce 
X ($28)

11l"xl4"Print ....$28 ... + $4 
I X ($68) 
'f •• ,,...... 

:11•• x 14•• Matted & framed Print .......$68 .. + $8 
I (arrrox. st<:c 15" x 18") I X ($88)
I framed Diploma Holder .......$88 ....... ---"-= + $8 : (3ppr;:-x. st:e 15" J( 21") 
~ ~ .-~.,,-· 
X ($60)

:1911 x 23" Limited Edition Print. . ..$60 ... + $6
···Y··­
t~.---~ t ...... t>... 1 . . 


I X ($170)
119" x 23" Matted & Framed Print ......$170 ...... ·-~= +$12 : (approx. ~tzc 2)" x 29") 
I I TOTAL L ____ 
more than five months. 
"All Somalis must understand wartime is over. Without out­side interference, all Somali factions can solve their prob­lems among themselves," he said. 
A pop singer, llalima Khalif, led chants of "Aidid, Aidid!" and "Gul, gul!" (victory, victo­ry). 
In a sign of growing U.S. pop­ularity, Oakley's convoy was cheered when Aidid militiamen escorted it through the crowd a few minutes before the clan leader arrived. 
78 
Years 
Of 
Harmony 
Notre Dame Glee Club Alumni Reunion Concert 
Friday Noven1ber 19 8:30 Stepan Center 
Tickets Available at LaFortune Information Desk General Admission $3 Students S2 
Ca11631-8128 for more information 
This event WILL sell out 


--~~-~----~~~----­
~------­
BUSINESS 
Friday, November 19, 1993 page 9 
Panel discusses implications ofNAFTA, pros and cons 
By MICHAEL MARTIN ing free enterprise zones close Business Writer to the border, the Mexican trade balance has gone from a 
While many doubts and con­$5 billion surplus in 1986 to a cerns were voiced as to its pos­$5 billion deficit in 1992, he sible adverse social and ecolog­said. ical effects, the economic setup This pact would simply move of the North American Free further along a path that we Trade Agreement was hailed as are already taking, said Kim. a step into the future of world Because Mexico's economy, as trade by Jeffrey Bergstrand, measured by GDP, is very small associate professor of finance, compared to that of the United at last night's panel discussion States the adverse impact of the on NAFTA. new agreement would be miti­
Foreseeing large scale expan­gated, he said. sion of regionalized trade mar­However, reviews were mixed kets, Bergstrand characterized as to the specific effects of the NAFTA as "a short-term substi­plan. Kim observed that there tute for continued trade liberal­was a certain amount of "fast­ization." tracking" the debate through 
As tariff barriers drop, the Congress, ignoring more partic­movement of capital and labor ular concerns not associated across borders will allow for with larger measures of eco­el'ficient production and nomic well-being. improved living standards for Charles Craypo, professor of all, he said. He pointed out that economics, placed emphasis on a number of nations, such as the impact on the laborers in Chile and Pacific Basin nations, each nation. Citing past efforts were "waiting on our doorstep" to liberalize trade, Craypo for entrance into a NAFTA-type pointed out that theoretically accord. expected increases in standards 
Even the most dire predic­of living proceeding from 
tions of increased joblessness growth in production do not es, driving many into an the Citizens Action Committee. the environmental dispute reso­represent only fractions of per­always translate in practice. already fiercely competitive The flip side to increased effi­lution process. Commissions of centage points in terms of total "There is a need for a com­domestic job market, he said. ciency in terms of specialization appointed members, enclosed United States unemployment, plex, comprehensive strategy In the United States, many is the possible depletion of nat­in a cloak of secrecy that would said Bergstrand. for a high-wage, high-growth unskilled laborers will lose ural resources and a decrease only be ·removed with the 
Adjustment to a free trade economy, "said Craypo. their jobs to the low-wage com­in the quality of goods pro­agreement of all three nations system may not be as abupt as Asserting that the real ques­petition across the border, said duced, he said. from each of the signatories, many think, said Kwan Kim, tion was not the number of jobs Kim, talking of the both the The agreement stipulates that would be allowed to adjudicate professor of economics. gained and lost but exactly who political and social ramifica­no nation can place barriers on differences that arise, he said. Mexico, Kim pointed out, has loses the jobs, Kim delved fur­tions of the lack of an "effective trade, which precludes the Volker cautioned that these been moving towards liberaliz­ther into the worker dilemma. social safety net." United States' imposing its own groups could fall under the ing their trade relations for In Mexico, small businesses and Concerns more environmental quality standards on imports, influence of large business <~;ppro;!l~mately 10 years now. farmers will be overrun by the in nature were voiced by Roger said Volker. coalitions and "take the power By cutting tariffs and establish-large scale American enterpris-Volker, a representative from Most important to Volker is away from the community." 

American Airlines strike delays flights, cancels many others 
By SUSAN HIGHTOWER Associated Press 
Thousands of American Airlines passengers were shuf­fled to other carriers or later flights Thursday when flight attendants began the biggest airline strike in nearly five years. Many were bitter about delayed vacations and missed appointments. 
American wouldn't say how many flights it was able to operate, but sources at another major carrier familiar with American's operation estimated 30 to 50 percent of American's flights were disrupted. 
The union, which struck at 7 
a.m. EST over wage and other contract issues, claimed the walkout was 90 percent effec­tive. 
Meanwhile, the more power­ful Allied Pilots Association was voting whether to join the flight attendants, a move that would likely ground the airline. 
The flight attendants strike was the largest against an air­line since Machinists struck the now-defunct Eastern Airlines in 1989. 
Thousands of passengers at American's main hubs in Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth were shuffied to other airlines, particularly United and Delta, or put on later American flights. 
The company said it had 
started recruiting replacements who could be trained under government supervision in 10 days. 
The Association of Professional Flight Attendants said its strike would last 11 days, a period chosen so any replacements could not start working before the strike ends. 
However, American said flight attendants who strike likely would not have jobs to return to. 

Jets at some airports left with no passengers but with their luggage aboard. The airline flew many planes empty in hopes of matching the jets with available flight attendants. 
Some delays and empty flights were reported at Denver, Boston, Oklahoma City,Phoenix, Fargo, N.D., and New York City. However, pas­sengers generally remained calm. 
Cable companies under investigation 
By DIANE DUSTON they will push this to the edge moving quickly to determine Associated Press of the envelope." courses of action in the states. Under the new law, basic He said he couldn't release WASHINGTON cable television rates are regu­the names of the other 18 
Attorneys general in 23 states lated by the local communities states without permission, but have banded together to inves­and expanded service is regu­The Washington Post reported tigate whether recent cable TV lated by the Federal today that California and price increases are legal. Communications Commission. Virginia and New York also 
"We had hoped the congres­But the law also gives state were among those involved in sional cable act would cure a authorities the power to inter­the investigation. lot of the problems, but the vene. The attorneys general will be cable industry is very creative," Norris said a steering com­working with the FCC to Florida Assistant Attorney mittee comprising Wisconsin, strengthen regulations, but will General Jack Norris said today. Florida, Arkansas, file suits against specific cable "They are very confident and Pennsylvania and Oregon is companies if necessary. 
MARKET ROUNDUP BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Proposed national tobacco tax could lead to job loss 
ByJIM LUTHER national program is simply not Associated Press fair," Robert Curtis, president of the Kentucky AFL-CIO, told a WASHINGTON news conference in the Capitol. 
President Clinton's proposed quadrupling of the cigarette tax Clinton has asked Congress to to pay for health care would raise the 24-cent-a-pack feder­destroy 81 ,000 jobs, union offi­al tax on cigarettes to 99 cents cials representing tobacco to provide a share of the new workers said today. money needed to finance an 
"Asking one group of work­overhaul of the health-care sys­ers, one industry and one tem. Taxes on cigars, snuff and region of the country -the other tobacco products would South -to foot the bill for a be raised similarly. 

--------~------~-----~­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, November 19, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
NCWII Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson System• Manager .............................. Pa<rick Barch Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Dim:tor................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily rellcct the policies of the adminima­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objccrivcly as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edi10r, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Edi10r. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of thC' authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of rhe Norrc Damc/Sainr Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EdirorNiewpoinr  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advcnising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bigotry and hate are still anathema to the University 

Dear Editor: 
Exactly a year ago this month, a letter from me in this space expressed my outrage, and that of all of the officers of the University, with a mass­mailed anti-Semitic tract pub­lished in these pages as an opinion column. Ironically, in that letter I listed examples of other commonly circulated hate tracts, including, as I wrote then, "the cruel delusion that the Holocaust... never hap­pened." On Thursday a version of this delusion was the subject of an advertisement run in these pages. 
I have been told that an error in oversight by The Observer's top editors led to the publica­tion of this advertisement. I have been told further that the editors intend to apologize for the error and to provide other means for readers to be part of a full airing of this incident. I believe that David Kinney's regret over this incident is gen­uine and that he is fully aware of the seriousness of the error. 
At the same time, it is imper­ative that material such as was published Thursday not again appear in these pages. The Observer already has in place a policy regarding what is and what is not acceptable advertis­ing. I ask that the editors amend this policy to make it clear to all who work on the paper that hate messages such as the one published Thursday will not be accepted for publi­cation. 
I say again what I said here a year ago: "Bigotry and hate, whether expressed in print or in deed, whether from inside or outside this community, are anathema to everything this University stand for and will not be tolerated here. 
FR. EDWARD MALLOY 
President 
University of Notre Dame 
I 57WO UP 70 7He PC/?5/I PUT ITAU. ON 7He 
UNf5/ AN{) Gl%395 WHAT­
I'M 51'/U. k/ORTH OVeR. 
Jt81L.UON.' (.(JHOHI3Rl3 fi.K){}UJ 8f5 UJIU/NG 70 SPEW{) 22 MON7HS IN PRISON CAMPFa< / If!31UION? 

Dear Editor: 
Where has David Hungeling ("Champs? We're not worthy," The Observer, Nov. 18) been the past week? 
Is he still too intoxicated from the last football weekend that he can't read the half-page note submitted by the women of Lyons Hall thanking us for our prayers and support, which was placed in the same edition as his absurd column? 
Does he not realize that the "enthusiastic" behavior which he criticizes Notre Dame stu­dents for not displaying-"huge parties. over-consumption of alcohol and other drugs, naked­ness and mass fornication"-is the type of behavior which causes fatal accidents like the recent death of Mara Fox to occur? Not only am I amazed by his extreme naivete, but also his complete lack of sensitivity for encouraging that which has destroyed one life and shat­tered many others in our own community. 
It seems as though he has severely missed the boat on 
defining school spirit. On how many other college campuses do you find as many students adorning themselves with their college emblem? Students, alumni and other fans lined up an hour before the pep rally to squeeze into the JACC. 
People came from all over the country by busloads in plaid pants and green sweaters­many without tickets or even places to stay-to catch some of the spirit found here and to be a part of it. The entire stadium during the game squelched the Seminole chant with fingers in the "L" formation, yelling Lou's name. And after the game, three thousand students along with the band and cheerleaders stood outside of Grace Ball to commemorate our recent victo­ry by witnessing the lighting of the #1. 1f you don't consider that school spirit, I don't know what else is. 
Hungeling suggests school spirit was exemplified by the Georgia Tech students who removed a goal post and set it on fire, practically burning the whole city with it. All I can see in that is destructive stupidity. 
I think that if he took the time, Ilungeling would find that most students here are not "jealous of schools which lack massive intellectual capacity and otherwise aim at under­achievement," nor do we "wish we were more like them," at least by the time we become seniors. And most, he may also realize, would not agree that "week-long displays of debauchery" are necessary to prove that we are number one. By using the strong senses of good judgement, responsibility and balanced lifestyle that got us in to this University, Notre Dame students are showing what it really means to be national champions. 
Maybe we do "place too high a priority on insignificant things like grades and future employ­ment opportunities," but I don't think that placing a high priori­ty on community is insignificant at all. I feel sorry that he does. 
MOLLY PENNY Senior Off-Campus 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ANOP&OP/..-8 
fAKJRRY A80UT THe. K/IJ5 TOC¥J.Y... 

''Anyone who does any­thing for pleasure to indulge his selfish soul will surely burn in Hell." 
Lenny Bruce Comedian 

r--------------~-----~~ ~-~-----------------------------------------------...,..-------...... 
................................................................................................................................... 
Friday, November 19, 1993 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
JOSH OZERSKY I, FARRINGTON 
erance ploy

I read Sean Geary's anti-alco­asleep fully clothed on an hol piece (The Observer, Nov. unmade bed. 
16) with interest. Like every­There, his open-mouthed body else, I was inclined to hoot snore bothers no one, and the at him, and, what with my ever-present temptation to deadline coming up and little in operate heavy machinery is the way of inspiration, it nowhere at hand. Let us have a occurred to me that hectoring nation of solitary drinkers, lum­him in print might not be a bad bering moodily home from idea. Martin's with a sack of frozen 
On the other hand, I hate the veal patties and a case of idea of pleasing the anonymous Hamm's. There, unlike Geary, toughs who left messages on we are unlikely to offend my machine after my pious friends; or, unlike so many article on Haiti two weeks ago. burly rockers, are we likely to Notre Dame, like all American attempt date-rape on a vulner­colleges, has an army of rock­able co-ed, since none are pre­ers-defining as "rockers" sent to inflame our appetites. those vegetables who buy beer This is responsible drinking mirrors, posters of beer cans of at its best. It could teach these many nations, who join· inter­rockers a thing or two about dorm basketball teams named inner resources also. and so "brew crew," who boast of hav­further: "I challenge [anyone in ingenuous editorial. His sider the sane and democratic could be considered a spiritual ing a "body by Bud," and so on. favor of responsible drinking] to avowed "wish that there was a one. What harm can there be, aid, of sorts. With no one to To be honest with you, I could not drink until the end of the group of people who wanted to after a long afternoon of read­boast to or high-five, the rocker never stand these guys. semester." humiliate me" is bound to come ing "Major Problems in the would find himself reduced to They've been causing me trou­Until the end of the semester! true. It turns out that the cam­Early Republic," of having a the American male's essential ble since eighth grade. They Judas Priest! We'd have half a pus is much worse than any­cold beer? Roy Orbison/John Hinckley can't hold their liquor, they dozen would-be Charles body thought. Rockers hide Or even two? nature. There he would learn have no manners, and they're Whitmans sniping from the top everywhere. This creep who This "semester sobriety chal­humility, and tqe deep rever­dangerous in packs. They're of Hesburgh alone. Is there ran over Mara Fox was a law lenge" just doesn't jibe with a ence for womankind that only fake Deadheads, too. anyone more priggish and student, of all things! Here I mature lifestyle. It's in the gre­prolonged exposure from them 
So it's a hard call for me to depressing than an recovering thought law students sat garious, keg-pounding atmos­can achieve. Is a slight meta­take a populist stanc-e in favor alcoholic? These people are. around in soft gray suits read­phere of the fraternity that bolic change really such a terri­of alcohol. It's perfectly okay even bigger buzzkills than the ing Blackstone's "Commen­alcohol is most dangerous. ble price to pay for this? We with me if the rockers suffer, as rockers. "I became a royal pain taries," and it turns out that Drunk in the quiet and solitude would be better scholars, and long as I have access to the in the ass when I was drunk," they are the same beer-swilling of one's own home, however, it better men, if we adopted the golden cup. Still, someone has Geary writes. implying a louts as elsewhere, or worse. presents no social problems at creed of the solitary drinker. to El Kabong this Geary's tem­change in the morning. It's almost enough to turn your all. The good citizen-drinker is I think even Sean Geary perance ploy. "Raise your soda And yet, I feel bad for this sympathies to the SUDS types. a peaceful sort, who only wants would raise a toast. cans and drink to another week Geary. He is bound to be Almost. My own attitude, to make a pan of dehydrated Josh Ozersky is a graduate of sobriety!" he says. He goes harassed by rockers for his however, is what I would con-hash browns before falling student in History. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
C~nsoring Revue would be in bad taste 
Dear Editor: Rector, Brother Bonaventure members of the audience. 
I am writing concerning the Scully. All of these letters say People love it and they look topics of the content and the the same thing: have an open forward to it every year. location of the Keenan Revue, mind. Have a sense of humor. Keenan looks forward to per­which were discussed at the Laugh at yourself. The Revue forming it at Saint Mary's every BOG meeting this past Monday is not meant to sustain the yes.r. Saint Mary's should not 
evening. Although I was unable stereotypes but exaggerate be just a women's college con­to attend the meeting because them and make fun of them, so cerned about presenting the 
of the amount of studying I had if you're easily offended, don't values of women but also pre­to do, I hope my opinion will be attend the show. And the skits senting the humor of women. considered as part of the open don't just poke fun at the forum. stereotypes placed on the The stereotypes are just as 
women on both campuses, but ridiculous for us as they are for 
I think all of this contempt the ones placed on men's the women of Badin, Breen­towards the Revue is petty and, dorms, the administration, even Phillips and all the women's if censored or moved off of the the residents of Keenan them-dorms of Notre Dame, and yet 
Saint Mary's campus, will do selves. ,, Mary Beth Wilkinson, Melissa more harm then good. One of Whelan and Heidi Deckelmann the reasons for showing it at And over the years, people seem to be the only ones lack­
Saint Mary's is to create more have found it to be a great dose ing the ability to laugh at them­unification between the cam­of humor that is rarely seen selves and the inane stereo­puses and attract those Notre within the rigid Catholic walls types that circulate throughout Dame students who otherwise of both schools. It is not meant the campuses. 
Dear Thieves (via Editor): materials and additional paid 
might never cross the street. to be taken seriously;that's the On the occasion of the open­labor. What you vandalized in whole point of its taking place. The Board of Governance is ing night of the recent produc­minutes was the product of The Revue has been held only one group of women on tion of Hamlet, you came to considerable care and effort. 
here for over ten years signify­Maybe each Keenan resident this campus, and I hope that Washington Hall in the dark of It's possible that we in the ing one of the only upheld tra­needs to take a vote on whether before they vote on somethingnight and stole the hand-paint­theatre should be flattered that ditions incorporating both cam­they feel they're being nega­so detrimental to the communi­ed sign which we use as a mar­our artwork is in such demand. 
puses. After all of this time, tively portrayed as well. I won­ty that they will consider the quee. You climbed out onto the Usually it's our plays bring peo­kicking the Revue out of der if Patty O'Hara would like opinions of all the students ledge and cut the canvas sign ple to the theatre. Perhaps you O'Laughlin will only alienate us to set aside a couple of days to first. I think that a vote should off of the metal frame with a were disappointed that you the more and create a rift oversee the auditions for the be taken within all the dorms 
knife and then retreated to were unable to get tickets to 
between the Saint Mary's stu­skits herself. on campus like the ones for the your lair. (It could almost be a the sold-out production of dents and Keenan Hall. What's left? campus smoking policy or cable romantic were it any more than Hamlet. In the future, consider TV in hall lounges. 
the boring work of common buying season tickets instead. 
Student Body President Mary If everybody took part in thieves and vandals.) If you find that you grow Beth Wilkinson is quoted in the judging what should and I feel that it is BOG's respon­I've only told you what you weary of your trophy you may Observer as being offended by shouldn't be included in the sibility to be fair in this decision already know, so far. Here is return it to my office (1 01 the stereotypes of Saint Mary's Keenan Revue, it wouldn't be by including a formal vote some information about which Washington Hall) without fear and Notre Dame women por­Keenan anymore, there would rather than just an open forum. 
you are no doubt ignorant. of retribution or even ques­
trayed in the Revue and that be no humor about the campus­Otherwise a small populationStudents, faculty, and staff tions. If you are not quite fin­we, as women, need to have a es whatsoever to lift the burden will have control over censoring spent many hours building, ished with the sign, perhaps say about our appearance in a off the day to day drudgery we or even discontinuing the painting, and installing that you will consider displaying it production that is so popular. all feel after awhile, and the Keenan Revue on the Saint sign. The materials were pur­at the Boston College game and production will have completely Mary's campus, which· is not chased and the labor paid for draw national attention to First of all, upon entering the lost sight of its purpose. reflective of what the communi­out of the same budget that Shakespeare as well as to the theatre at each of the perfor­ty wants as a whole. 
funds theatre productions and Department of Communication 
mances, members of the audi­The content hasn't gottenstudent projects. Now we'll and Theatre. ence are presented with a pro­more offensive over the years, MARY ClARE BOURJAILY have to spend similar hours BRUCE AUERBACH gram including letters from only the audacity of some of the Sophomore
rebuilding and repainting a Associate Chair, Director ofTheatre 
residents of Keenan Hall and its people who have chosen to be Regina Hall 
new sign with newly purchased Department ofCommunication & Theatre 

page 12 


friday 
events 
"The Last Days of Chez Nous," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., $2. "Snow White," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. 
"Alive," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m.,$2. 
Flanner/ Siegfried Play, "California Suite," 8 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom, $3. Men's & Women's Swimming vs. Ball State, Men's at 4 p.m., and Women's at 7 p.m., Rolfs Aquatic Center. Fighting Irish Pep Rally, 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. 
music 
Notre Dame Glee CLub Alumni Reunion Concert, 8:30 p.m., Stepan Center, $2. 
saturday 
events 
Fighting Irish Marching Band, 11 a.m., Administration Building. Notre Dame vs. Boston College, kick-off 1:05 p.m. "The Last Days of Chez Nous," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., $2. "Snow White," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. 
"Alive," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30p.m., $2. 
Flanner/ Siegfried Play, "California Suite," 8 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom, $3. 
music 
Gauge, live from Chicago and Notre Dame's Seight of Hand, Dalloway's Cofl'ee House (SMC), 8:30p.m. 
sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol, 11:30 a.m., Breen-Phillips Hall Chapel, Padre Richard Warner. All are welcome. 
Interhall football Play-offs in the Notre Dame Stadium, Women's: Badin vs. Pasquerilla West, 11 a.m. and Men's: Stanford vs. Morrissey, 12 p.m. 
Women's Basketball vs. Czechs, 2 p.m., J.A.C.C. Arena, free admission. 
movies 
University Park East 
The Remains of the Day 7. 9:55 Gettysburg 7 Carli to's Way 7, 9:50 Fearless 7:10, 9:40 Look Who's Talking Now 7:30, 9:35 
University IWk west 

Nightmare Before Christmas 7:30, 9:30 Robocop III 7:20, 9:40 The Three Musketeers 7:45, 10 


Friday, November 19, 1993 


Who says it's boring in South Bend? Besides all of the things that this city has to offer, just a car-ride away Chicago offers innumerable opportunities for entertain­ment. So instead of complaining that there is nothing to do, check out these options. 

BY ELISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
This year, one of the top all male choruses in the country will lift their voices in "Seventy-eight Years of Harmony." 
The Notre Dame Glee Club, consisting of around 60 members, will give their first perfor­mance of the year on Friday in Stepan Center. "Every 2 years, the Glee Club has a concert in­volving Glee Club alumni," said Johri Sebastian, senior and member of the Glee Club for 4 years. "This year we will have 200 former members." 
The concert is divided up into several parts, the last section consisting of songs performed by current members and alumni. The event starts off with foreign pieces from a number of varying styles. The audience can look forward to hearing "Cantate Domino" by Hans Leo Hassler, and "Demon of the Gibbet" by Paul Hindemith. The

1 
theme then changes as the Glee Club performs Negro spirituals like "Ain' -A That Good News!" and "Swing Low Sweet Chariot." The concert then concludes with a culmination of Glee Club favorites and traditional Notre Dame songs. For this part the alumni will join the current mem­bers for a total of almost 300 people on stage. 

"There's a quite varied selection of music," said Sebastian. "There's something for every­body." 
In preparation for this event, practice has been held everyday from 4:45 p.m. -6:00 p.m. "It's pretty intense and serious," said Sebastian. "There's a real commitment to keeping up our reputation." 
Tryouts for the Glee Club are strenuous, con­sisting of both a vocal selection and an interview. The interview section is vital to the audition because according to Sebastian, "its important to not only be a good, talented individual, but he must also be compatible with the personality of the Glee Club." 
Besides the concert, the Notre Dame Glee Club will be releasing a new Christman CD titled, "On Christmas Night." It was recorded last year in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Parish and con­tains modern and traditional style Christmas favorites. The CD will be available at the Bookstore and the concert. 
"Seventy-eight Years of Harmony" will be held at Stepan Center, Friday, November 19 at 8:30. Tickets, $3 for general admittance and $2 for students, are available at the LaFortune in­formation desk. 
r~~ -~ ---~--~ 
FOOTBALL 1993 

Boston College vs. Notre Dame 
(7-2) (10-0) Notre Dame Stadium November 20, 1993 1:30 p.m. 
I
t doesn't so much bother ed getting into the games," him anymore. In the ., says Becton. "Once I got out beginning, the doubters there on the field and I saw would wear on him con-· that my speed wasn't di­stantly. minishing my playing, I just 
They lined up to take shots forgot out about it. at the heir to the prestigious "I feel like I may not be as title of the starting tailback fast as a lot of other people, at Notre Dame. but I get the job done. I 
"He's too slow to be a Notre think that's more important Dame tailback," they said. .than speed." "He'll never start there," Most Irish fans will remem-they scoffed. TheObserver/T.J.Harris her what one of his doubters 
Lee Becton now has no reason to think about joked when he was held out of a game last the many doubts that once circulated through year with a hamstring injury. the air around him, hanging on like a would­"I didn't think he could run fast enough to be tackler. 
See BECTON/page 8 
"At first it did bother me, but not once I start­
+-~",;~,~s 1 : n: ~ J-
Glenn Foley's hot hand has led 
Is Lee Becton one of the best Boston College to six straight running backs ever to play for wins. the Irish? -see page 3 -see page 7 -see page 2 


us 

page 2 
on a scale of 1 to 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
~-~ 
l!!J 
Foley is a four-year starter and one of rhe nation's best passers. 
RUNNING BACKS 
flJ 
Campbell has presented problems, bur he has no supporting casr. 
RECEIVERS 
r:~.--t 
l.:!J 
Mitchell is rhe nation's finest right end, and wide receivers have made contributions. 
0-LINE 
BJ 
No Taylors or Ruddys, bur they have allowed only 6 sacks all year. 
D-LINE 
I!] 
Tackles have decem pass rush, bur aren't as good against rhe run. 
LINEBACKERS 
l!J 
Boyd stops the run and Mamula sacks rhe quarterback. 
SECONDARY 
w 
Secondary has risen to up to stop big passing teams. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
l!j 
Good punring and kicking games, but they lack a big-play returner. 
COACHING 
~ 
Tom Coughlin always has a good squad, but he has never beaten NO while at BC. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
Look for Boston College to avoid the Iaugher of last year, but still lose handily. Friday, November 19, 1993 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
If history repeats itself, then No. 17 Boston College's offense could be in deep trouble. 
L a s t n-.R.r'll!lll!l 
year, t h e Eagles, ranked ninth in t h e country, walked into Notre Dame stadium last year with a 7­0-1 record and one of the most explosive offenses in the nation. They walked out with 54-7 loss. 


The Irish defense took over from the outset, hold­ing Boston College to only 11 first .half yards. Quarterback Glenn Foley was sacked four times and intercepted once. 
This year, after a shaky 0-2 start, the Eagles have churned out seven straight decisive wins and have once again proved them­selves as an offensive threat. Over the last four games, they have outscored their opponents by 102 points, and average 
512.4 yards of offense a game. 
"Last year Boston College came in nationally ranked and we were focused," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "This year's Boston College team I think is better than last year's. There are many teams capable of beating us and one is Boston C.::ollege on 
Overachieving Eagles ;'i* AQ* no match for Irish 
By MIKE NORBUT will probably be at the top SportS Writer of Holtz's game plan tomorrow, as they easily 
Don't look for any sur­outman the Eagle defen­prises tomorrow when sive linemen. watching Notre Dame's What Boston College oll'ense in action. Just look does not have in terms of for Boston College players size and strength on the to be scattered all over the line, however, they make field after every 
up for with the play play. of their lineback­
"I think we ers. realize that to be The Eagles are successful. we led defensively by have to have a inside linebackers good offensive Stephen Boyd and line," said Notre Brian Howlett, who 
lead the team with 134 and 78 total tackles. The defense still gives up 161.7 yards rushing per game, however, and may have Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 
The Irish big men have dominated up front all year, with their latest dis­play of prowess coming last week against Florida State. Notre Dame ran for 239 yards and scored four touchdowns on the ground against the Seminoles. 
This week. look for more of the same, with tackles Aaron Taylor and Todd Norman leading the way. One setback for the Irish is a hip injury to center Tim Ruddy, who will not be in perfect condition for tomorrow's contest. 
"They are extremely effective offensively," said Eagle head coach Tom Coughlin. "They pound. pound, pound the ball at you." 
Hunning the ball inside 

-:~ 
' 
Saturday." 

The Eagle offense is cen­tered around Foley, who will be making his 43rd start of his career. A Davey O'Brien Award can­didate, the Boston College quarterback has thrown for 2,224 yards and 19 touchdowns as opposed to only three interceptions on the year. 
He will once again test the pass defense of Notre Dame, who last week han­dled Florida State's "fast break offense" without a problem. 
Johnson, and Mike Miller, will have to contend with a secondary of overachiev­ers, led by safety Terence Wiggins, who has two interceptions and 62 tack­les on the year. 
Pressure on McDougal may be the key for the Eagles to stop the Irish passing game. Outside linebacker Mike Mamula leads Boston College with seven sacks, mainly off blitzes. The Irish backs will have to pick up these blitzes before releasing in pass routes. 
The only real way for the Eagles to stop the Irish of­fense, however. is to depend on the Boston 
QUARTERBACKS 
McDougal played solid last week, and the fore­cast is for more of the same. 
RUNNING BACKS 
Becton is on the verge of his six straight 100­yard day. 
RECEIVERS 
tru 
Dawson could drop two balls every game and this unit would still shine. 
Even if Ruddy is ailing, this group is the best in the country. 
Young, Hamilton, Knight, Flanigan, Gibson-all so good. 
LINEBACKERS 
1.!1 
Slow sloths some say, but tell that to Florida State. 
SECONDARY 
w 
Showed last week that they can pass any test with flying colors. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
l!J 
WANTED: Anyone who can punt over 30 yards. No experience needed. 
COACHING 
l!J 
Lou could outcoach God if he has two weeks to prepare. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
One game left before we turn the season over to the Bowl Coalition. 

trouble meeting a lead blocker at the point of attack. 
Juniors Lee Becton and Ray Zellars will be busy in the Irish backfield. The starting tandem will be shuflling in and out with freshmen Handy Kinder, Marc Edwards, and Hobert Farmer. 
"When I look at our foot­ball team, we're very young at the running back position," said Holtz. "We lack breakaway speed and strength at fullback." 
Notre Dame has enough of both to get by. however. Becton has had five straight 100-yard rushing games, and needs just 78 yards tomorrow to reach the 1000-yard mark. And Zellars had no trouble run­ning over the supposedly dominating linebacking core of Florida State. 
Quarterback Kevin Mc­Dougal has executed the Notre Dame offense to perfection, making the right decisions and the passes in crucial situa­tions. 
Last week, McDougal completed 9 of 18 passes for 108 yards and had sev­eral fine passes dropped as the Irish scored at will in the first half and on crucial drives in the second half. 
!lis targets, receivers Lake Dawson, Clint 


Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 3 

Foley's explosion keys Eagles' attack 
By ED McLAUGHLIN The Heights Staff 
On September 4, he stood alone after the 23-7 loss to Mi­ami and pointed the finger of blame at himself. When asked what the problem was with the Eagles offense, he replied, "Today it was the quarterback position. Period." 
He did not blame an inconsis­tent offensive line or the paltry running attack. 
Quarterback Glenn Foley blamed himself for the Joss, wanting more than anything to make up the loss to his team­mates. 
Foley has made up for the loss in the past ·five games, av­eraging 42 points per contest in high scoring victories. Over that span, Foley has thrown for 1,460 yards and 13 TO's. 
The offensive line has stepped up and given Foley the time to throw from the packet. The run­ning game, Jed by FB Darnell Campbell (14 TDs) and Anthony Comer, has allowed Boston College to throw at will, not in dire straights. Make no mistake, the offense's success starts with the 
quarterback, the 

leader of the ~.......:...~.cc...J offense. 
Foley began the game against Pittsburgh by entering the BC record book. He threw for 360 yards and three touchdowns, equaling Doug Flutie's all-time BC es with 67. 
Foley's five-game explosion becomes more impressive with the distribution of the ball. Clarence Cannon leads the team with four TD catches, with Pete Mitchell and Keith 

beat boston college 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 48 
~-------~r-------,r--~92tQ~~Qij~g~-~7
Late Night Speciat 1~14': Larg.e Party Pack 1..-14" Large 
Others To Watch 

DARNELL CAMPBELL The fullback has 19 touch­downs which leads the nation in scoring. 


STEPHEN BOYD The ILB has 134 tackles to his credit {67 solo) despite missing the Tulane game. 


PETE MITCHELL Now has 118 career receptions, . including 49 catches this year. Averages 5.6 catches a game. 

~ 
' 

~ow accepting 
Miller each recording three. 

Foley played only a half against Tulane and made the Green Wave see red. Foley threw for 327 yards and two touchdowns while having four balls dropped. Coughlin com­mended Foley after the game for his short afternoon of work. 
"Execution was the key," Coughlin said. "Glenn did a good job of recognizing cover­age. He made some big plays and had a very solid game. Glenn moved the ball around the field today." 
"We have some real good skill people," Foley said. "They catch the balls and they made some great runs today. When you have guys doing that the games get a Jot easier." 
The question remains whether or not Foley can con­tinue to light up opposing defensive backs as the season takes a turn down a difficult road. However, Foley knows that the team will need to avoid a dive like the team suffered last season. 
"We have to keep rolling when we're playing well," he said. "We still need to iron things out but know we have so many weapons on offense that teams will have to worry about." 
The most lethal weapon on the field wears number 13 and plays the quarterback position. 
1 9p.m.-close 11 1 Toppmg Ptzza 1I 4... 14" Large Ill~ . p· I Vtsa & Mastercard 
$695

I 1--14" Large II +Tax II 1 ~ · II opptng tzzal $10 minimum
I 1't · p· II or 2 ~ 14" Large II opp1ng .11 with 2 cans of Coke 1~--=-=-:::=-=--::::::=::---=---, I $5~~~T.. IZZa II 1 Toppi~f Pizzas 11 Piz~fS 11 and Br~~dstix L"' HQURS , : Mt.ll $11 "" II $22 •T" II $10 "" I M,Th:. ll~OOa.m.·l~OOa.m: 
Addit\onalToppings .9S;. •ach .IIAdditional Toppings 9S;. •ach IIAdditionaiToppings .95~ each Mb.IIAdditional Toppings 95;. •ach Mb.I fn,Sat. 11.00 a.m. , 3.00 a.m. 
~­

l,::t Vahd Woth Any Other Coupon .JI Not Valid With Any Othor Coupon .JI Not Valid With Any Othor Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J Sun· N00 , 1·00
-------.._ _______ .._-~-----.____ . n . a.m. 

Fast • Hot • Perfect 
The Most Popular Nurnl-er on Campus! 



r-____...._,_______________...,....,_______~--~--------~­
page4 Friday, November 19, 1993 
-~--~---~-~-----·-····-·--~---~­
EAGLES 
----The History of the Series---­
The Last Time: 
Notre Dame 54, Boston College 7 
The Records: Last year Boston College came into Notre Dame Stadium undefeated and the 
Notre Dame leads 4-0 Irish scored touchdowns the first five Last ND Win: 1992times they had the ball, roaring to a 37-0 Last BC Win: Nonehalftime lead. 
Longest Series Streaks:
Reggie Brooks ran for 17 4 yards and two TO's while Rick Mirer completed 13 ......'% ND-4 (1975, '83, '87, '92) of 18 passes for 180 yards and a career-~ BC-none high three TD's. The Irish compiled 576 . At Notre Dame Stadium: total yards against an Eagle defense that Reggie Brooks 
Notre Dame leads 2-0 had been permitting only 11.9 points and 
264.8 yards a game. 
The Irish defense sacked Glenn Foley four times, forcing him to throw an interception and fumble once. 
BOSTON COLLEGE EAGLES 1993 ROSTER 
1Tivo Concepcion Jr  SE  6-0 171  50 Stephen Boyd  Jr ILB  6-1 234  
2 Tony Ransome  So  CB  5-9 174  51 Mike Panos  Sr ILB  6-2 231  
3 Mitchell Carr  Rsf WA  5-9 173  52 M. Hemmert  Fr  LB  6-4 220  
4 K. Watson  Jr WR 5-10 166  53 Jerod Funke  Fr  LB  6-5 235  
5 Joe Kamara  Jr CB  5-9 169  54 Tim O'Brien  So  C  6-3 268  
6 Eric Shorter  Sr  SS 5-10 186  55 Erik Lyman  SoOLB  6-2 225  
7 M. Hasselbeck  Fr QB  6-4 191  56 Ed Sanabria  JrOLB  6-1 221  
8 Jeff Ryan  So  OB  6-2 208  57 Matt Half  RsfOLB  6-3 225  
9 Chris Hackett  F r KP 5-10 160  58 T. Morabito  SoOLB  6-3 255  
10 Mark Hartsell  Rsf OB  6-4 209  59 Mike Mamula  SoOLB  6-5 228  
11 Jeff Beckley  Jr  KP  6-2 182  60 Greg Pepper  Jr OG  6-4 267  
12 Steve Bowen  Rsf 08  6-3 205  61 B. Velishka  Jr  OT  6-5 277  
13 Glenn Foley  Sr QB  6-2 207  62 C. Harwick  Rsf  DL  6-4 256  
14 D. Gordon 15J.Woods  Sr K 6-0 178 Jr CB5-10192  63 Greg Landry 64 Tom Nalen  So OG Sr C  6-4 284 6-3 268  
15 Dan McGuire  Jr  K5-10170  65 Josh Porter  So  OT  6-7 278  
16 Todd Pollack  Fr QB  6-4 225  66 P. Kendall  So  OT  6-5 266  
17 Michael Reed  Jr CB  5-9 175  67  K. Johnson  So OG  6-3 295  
18 M. Campbell  Jr  FL  6-3 198  69  Matt Goulet  Jr  OT  6-3 270  
19 Brett Bleeker  Rsf  KP  6-5 182  70  D. Oriskovich  Rsf  OT  6-3 285  
20 Greg Grice  So  SE  5-9 182  71  Mark Nori  Rsf  OT  6-4 270  
21 C. Kuboyana 23 Keith Miller  Jr Sr  FS 5-11 180 FL 5-11 160  72 G. Iavarone 73 J. Coleman  Fr Fr  DT DL  6-3 260 6-2 250  
24 A. English  Rsf  RB  6-1 235  74  Mark Borelli  Sr OG  6-5 281  
25 R. Clifford  So  FS  6-1 190  75 Nelson Long  Sr  DT  6-6 279  
26 S. Marciano  Jr CB  5-7 180  76 VanDenBerghe  So  OT  6-7 280  
27 C. Cannon  Jr  SE 5-11 162  77 N. Milton  So  OT  6-3 270  
28 A. Comer  Jr  RB 5-10 213  77 J. Damon  So  DL  6-2 240  
29 E. Woodbury  Sr I<P  5-9 183  78 B. O'Connor  Rsf  OL  6-4 270  
30 David Green  Jr  RB 5-11 192  79 J. Hostetler  Fr  DT  6-4 265  
32 D. Gampbell  Sr RB  6-2 220  80 B. Gibbons  Rsf  TE  6-7 235  
33 0. walker  Fr  RB 5-11 205  81  Pete Klein  Jr  TE  6-3 211  
34 C. Campbell  So  RB 5-10 205  82  P. Mitchell  Jr  TE  6-2 228  
35 K. Korrnanik  So  SS 5-11 186  83  Ivan Boyd  Sr  FL  6-0 165  
36 John Duartes  Rsf  RB  5-9 198  84 A. Lawson  Rsf WR  5-7 158  
37 Marcus Allen  Fr  CB 5-10 170  85 S. Everson  Fr WR  6-0 175  
38 E. Thomas  Fr CB 5-11 175  86  Brian Saxton  Jr  TE  6-6 247  
39 TomWilson  Jr  FB 5-11 194  87  R. Beckwith  Fr WR  6-3 195  
39 Schermerhorn  Rst OLB  6-2 226  88 T. Schwartz  JrOLB  6-1 221  
40 M. Tillman  Fr  TB  5-9 185  90 Ted Page  Sr  DT  6-4 255  
41 0. Shirley  Jr  FB 5-11 210  91  Dan Kerr  SrOLB  6-4 235  
42 J. Smilh  So  RB 5-10 175  92  N. Gianacakos  Rsf  DL  6-4 236  
43 Chris Vionni  Sr OLB  6-0 209  93  C. Sullivan  So  DT  6-5 266  
44 Daryl Porter  Fr  TB 5-1 0 175  93 Adam Myers  Fr  DT  6-4 260  
45 B. Howlett  Sr ILB  6-0 234  95  Derek Hughes  Jr NG  6-0 247  
46 Brian Maye  Fr OLB  6-3 225  96  M. Bembry  Fr  DE  6-3 235  
47 David Jones  JrOLB  6-3 232  97 Joe O'Brien  So  DL  6-4 270  
48 Justin Pippy  So ILB  6-1 201  98 Gordon Lara  Jr  TE  6-3 251  
49 T. Wiggins  So  SS 5-11 185  99 S. Coline!  Rsf  DL  6-6 245  

Observer graphiCS Brendan Regan 

EAGLE / 
LT Pete I So.
OFFENSE 

LG Greg Landry Sc. 1 
C Tom Nalen Sr.; 
r RG Mark Borrelli Sr.l 
AT Dan Oriskovich So.· 
TE Pete Mitchell Jr. ­
QB Glenn Foley Sr.l 
FB Darnell Campbell Sr.: 
TB David Green Jr.; 
FL Keith Miller Sr.' 
--=--=--~­


Tim Morabito Chris Sullivan Dan Kerr Brian Howlett Stephan Boyd Joe Kamara Eric Shorter Michael Reed 
Second year at Boston College. 
Career Records: Overall 28-24-3; vs. Notre Dame, 0-1. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: Three years at RIT (1971-73). 
Career Highlights: Cou·ghlin coached Doug Flutie as quarterback coach at BC from 1980-83, and served as an NFL assistant with the Eagles (1984-85), the Packers (1986-87), and won as Super Bowl as an assistant with the New York Giants in 1988. 
-----1993 Statistics 
RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE 
Vds/Gm No Vds Avg TO Lg Rush Rec Rei Tol Avg 
PASSING 
D. Campbell 94.7 171 852 5.0 17 17 D. Campbell 852 123 0 975 108.3 Comer 63.7 55 382 6.9 2 40 Comer 382 84 47 513 85.5 Green 40.2 61 362 5.9 4 17 Mitchell 0 649 0 649 72.1 Duartes 22.8 17 91 5.4 0 14 Cannon 0 573 0 573 63.7 Shirley 15.4 22 123 5.6 1 37 Watson ·10 0 564 554 61.6 Miller 0 465 6 471 52.3 Green 362 51 0 413 45.9 Boyd 0 363 0 363 40.3 
Rating Comp All Pel Vds TO Long lnl Grice 0 204 21 225 37.5 Foley 164.0 166 273 60.8 2734 20 7 75 Smith 75 38 9 122 20.3 Hartsell 96.2 1 2 50.0 11 0 0 11 Shirley 123 0 35 158 19.8 Ryan 0.3 1 3 33.3 12 0 I 12 Gibbons 0 140 0 140 17.5 
RECEIVING SCORING SUMMARY 
No Vds Avg TO Long Mitchell 50 649 13.0 4 37 1 2 3 4 Tot Cannon 29 573 19.8 4 75 Boston College 85 94 85 58 322 Miller 28 465 16.6 4 60 Opponents 42 38 33 58 171 
Boyd 18 363 20.2 3 68 
Nov. 13 at PittsbUrgh ,33-0 Nov. 20 at Notre Dame 1:35 Nov. 26 WEST VIRGINIA 7:35 

DEFENSE  TEAM STATISTICS  
T  A  Tot  FR  PBU  TL  Sac  BC  Opp  
Boyd  67  67  134  0  1  1  4  First Downs  234  164  
Howlen  40  38  78  0  1  2  by rushing  107  95  
Wiggins  47  15  62  0  2  0  by passing  119  62  
Shorter  52  10  62  1  4  3  2  by penalty  8  7  
Mamula  33  24  57  0  3  4  7  T olal yardage  4613  1880  
Kamara  45  9  54  0  3  0  0  Offensive plays  660  636  
Sullivan  35  18  53  0  2  5  2  Avg. yards per play  7.00  4.53  
Morabito  31  17  48  0  1  7  3  Total yards per game  5124  320.0  
Panos  17  27  44  0  0  1  Rushing yards  1855  1455  
Reed  32  9  41  0  4  0  0  Rushing plays  382  406  
Page  24  12  36  0  0  7  4  Rushing yards per game  206.1  161.7  
O'Brien  14  11  25  0  1  1  1  Passing yards  2757  1425  
Kerr  18  7  25  0  0  1  0  Passes completed  168  126  
Porter  16  9  25  0  0  0  0  Passes anempted  278  230  
Jones  18  5  23  2  0  2  1  Passes intercepted  6  6  
Clifford  17  5  22  0  1  0  1  Passing yards per game  306.3  158.3  
Maye  10  5  15  0  0  0  0  Fumbles I fumbles lost  1719  1814  
Marciano  8  2  10  0  0  0  0  Penalties I penalty yards  431360  63-473  
Colinet  8  1  9  0  0  1  2  3rd down conversions  63·113  56·134  
Coleman  4  2  6  0  0  0  0  percenlage  55.8  41.6  
Sanabria  2  4  6  0  0  0  4th down conversions  4-8  6·16  
percentage  50.0  37.5  

SCORING 
PAT PAT TO X2 XI FG Sal Pts 

D. Campbell 19 0 0-0 0 0 114 Gordon 0 0 35-37 5 0 50 Green 5 00-00030 Cannon 0 0-0 0 0 24 Miller 0 0-0 0 0 24 Mitchell 4 0 0-0 0 0 24 Boyd 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
No Avg TO Long Watson 17 19.8 0 39 Comer 4 11.6 0 16 
PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TO Long Watson 26 8.7 0 20 Grice 1 21.0 0 21 Shorter 1 11.0 0 11 
FIELD GOALS 
Tot Gordon 5-8 Bleeker 1-2 
PUNTING 
No Avg Long Beckley 29 40.6 65 
INTERCEPTIONS 
No  Vds  TO  Long  
Wiggins  2  2  0  2  
Reed  2  0  0  0  
Boyd  7  0  7  
Shorter  3  0  3  
How len  0  0  0  
Kamara  0  0  0  

1993 BOSTON COLLEGE SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
Sept. 4 MIAMI 7-23 Sept~!Ui. at Northweste[n 21-22 Sept~.g.~ TEMR~E . 66-14 Oct. 2! · atSyracuse 33-29 Oct. 9; at Rutgers 31-21 Oct. 23 ARMY . .41-14 Oct. 30 TULANE ·A2-14 Nov. 6 Viginla Tech 48-34
c 


--~

...---.---·------------·-­
Friday, November 19, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA pageS 
.. 
7. Dean Lytle FB 6-3 240 Sr. 
B. Clint Johnson SE 5-8 180 Sr.

1993 Statistics 
9. Jeff Burris FS 6-0 204 Sr. 

RUSHING  
Yds/Gm  No  
102.4  150  
50.5  84  
50.3  91  
18.7  71  
18.4  39  
13.2  46  
PASSING  
Rating  Comp  
149.6  80  
218.8  19  

RECEIVING 
No Yds Avg TO Long 21 358 17.0 1 44 1 2 3 19 412 21.7 2 66 Opponents 30 44 30 17 365 21.5 2 80 Notre Dame 72 105 98 13 70 5.4 2 29 10 141 14.1 1 35 
7 121 17.3 0 43 
SCORING
FIELD GOALS 
PAT 

TO X2
40-49 50+ Long 

Pendergast 0 0 4H4 13 0 803-4 0·0 47 
28. Ron Hardin FB 6-2 227 Fr. · 
Edwards 8 0 0·0 0 0 48 Becton 6 0 0·0 0 0 36 
29. John Covington SS 6-1 211 Sr. 

Burris 6 0 0·0 0 0 36 
30. Marc Edwards FB 6-2 220 Fr. 

Zellars 6 0 0·0 0 0 36 
31. Robert Farmer TB 6-1 215 Fr.

PUNTING 
McDougal 4 0 0·0 0 0 24 
32. Willie Clark CB 5-10 181 Sr.

Farmer 3 0 0·0 0 0 18No Avg Long 
33. Greg lane CB 5-9 180 Sr.
18 39.9 55 L 37.4 44 
34. Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 Sr.

KICKOFF RETURNS 
10 33.7 58 
No Avg TO

INTERCEPTIONS 
C. Johnson 9 42.2 1 Miller 4 16.3 0 No Yds TO Long 
4 100 1 3 61 0 2 7 0 1 29 0 1 21 1 1 0 0 

DEFENSE 
T A Tot FA 56 22 78 0 42 21 63 1 34 26 60 2 44 7 51 0 37 12 49 1 41 6 47 1 32 13 45 0 30 15 45 0 31 9 40 0 22 16 38 3 24 8 32 0 13 11 24 0 18 4 22 0 15 4 19 0 17 1 18 0 11 7 18 0 11 5 16 0 6 5 11 0 6 3 9 0 4 4 8 0 4 3 7 0 2 4 6 0 3 2 5 0 3 2 5 0 3 2 5 0 




---NOTRE DAME STADIUM--­
Built in 1930 
IRISH 

Capacity: 59,075 
DEFENSE 

Largest Crowd: 61,296 (1962) Surface: Grass 
. ----·-·--~·--___,.Q~ ND's Record There: 239-67-5 
-------y1"---~.~:: .B-~HamfltQn" 
, G Renaldo Wynn
One of the most feared 
· G Bryant Young
and respected land­
~ -·· -----..,-,., T Jim Flanigan
marks in football histo­
OLB Justin Goheen 
ry, Notre Dame Stadium 
ILB Pete Bereich . 
has been home to more· 
OLB Bert Berry 

national championships 
CB Greg Lane 

than any other stadium 
SS John Covington 
FS Jeff Burris >-, , CB Bobby Taylor
in college football. 
',':', ~":";~ no~"%~ :~:-~:::::=.._•.:"­
IRISH 
Lou Holtz 
Eighth season at Notre Dame. 
NOTRE DAME 

Records at Notre Dame: Overall 75-18-1; at Home 37­
FIGHTING IRISH 
7-1; on the Road 36-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall 185-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6­
1993 ROSTER

2; vs. Boston College 2-0. Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 
1. Derrick Mayes SE 6-1 205 So.

seasons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
2. Dan Farrell FL 6-0 164 Jr.

Career Highlights: No.3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas 
2. leShane Saddler FS 5-11 194 Sr. 

team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Title; Upset 
3. 
Ron Powlus QB 6-4 210 Fr. 

4. 
lee Becton TB 6-0 190 Jr.



No. 1 Colorado in 1990 Orange Bowl, No. 3 Florida in 
5. Paul Failla QB 6-2 193 Jr.

1992 Sugar Bowl, No.3 Texas A&M in Cotton Bowl. 
6. Mike Miller Fl 5-7 157 Jr. 

ALL-PURPOSE  
Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Rush  Rec  Ret  
922  6.1  5  70  Becton  922  141  0  
505  6.0  2  70  Miller  0  412  267  
453  5.0  4  29  Zellars  453  70  19  
168  5.4  3  23  Kinder  505  0  0  
184  4.7  8  27  C. Johnson  0  121  380  
119  2.6  4  43  Mayes  7  365  0  
Dawson  4  358  0  
Farmer  168  8  0  
Edwards  184  0  11  
All  Pet  Yds  TO  tnt  Long  Burris  91  0  88  
131 61.1  t280  5  4  66  McDougal  119  0  0  
24  79.2  28t  3  0  80  Jarrell  32  16  0  
SCORING SUMMARY  

PUNT RETURNS
47 43 
7 
No Avg TO 
Miller
29 
Burris
21 
Lane
0 

TEAM STATISTICS 
PBU TL Sac 
3 3.0 0.5 First Downs 
1 6.0 6.5 by rushing 

1 4.0 1.0 bypassing 
6 2.5 0.0 by penalty 
4 0.0 0.0 Total yardage 
9 2.0 1.0 Offensive plays 
6 
0.0 2.0 Avg. yards per play 

2 
4.0 4.0 Total yards per game 301.0 429.8 4 0.0 0.0 Rushing yards 823 2702 


; T · Todd Norman 
0 4.0 4.0 Rushing plays 292 521 
G Ryan Leahy

0 3.5 0.5 Rushing yards per game 82.3 270.2 4 4.0 2.0 Passing yards 2187 1596 
QB Kevin McDougal 
0 1.0 0.0 Passes completed 233 100 
'C TimRuddy

0 1.5 3.0 Passes attempted 374 156 0 3.0 0.0 Passes intercepted 12 4 
G Mark Zataveski 
1 1.0 1 0 Passing yards per game 218.7 159.6 
T Aaron Taylor
1 1.0 0.0 Fumbles /tumbles lost 13/9 10/5 
' FL Lake Dawson
2 1.0 0.5 Penalties I penalty yards 66/555 60/506 
SE Clint Johnson 
0 1.0 0.0 3rd down conversions 55·146 57:122 
0 0.0 0.0 percentage 37.7 46.7 
RB Lee Becton 

0 0.0 0.0 4th down conversions 10·16 7·12 0 0.0 0.0 percentage 62.5 58.3 
TB Ray Zellars 

0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 
25 8.1 1 60.0 1 17.0 0 
Opp NO 
175 217 
44. Jim Flanigan NT 6-2 276 Sr. 
56 143 
106 67 13 7 3010 4298 666 677 4.52 6.35 

;i~~,·· .fP~~-cntplewicz 
Tot 
1063 679 542 505 501 372 362 176 195 179 119 
48 
4 49 89 
PAT 
X1 FG Sat Pts 
27. Tracy Graham CB 5-10 197 Jr. 
10 Adrian Jarrell FL 6-0 194 Sr. 
11. TomKrug QB 6-5 210 Fr. 
11. Tom MacDonald SS 6-0 189 Jr.
Avg 118.1 
12. 
K. Pendergast K 5-10 168 Sr. 

13. 
Brian Ford K 6-4 190 Fr. 

14. 
Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 170 Fr. 


67.9 
60.2 
50.5 
14. 
Colin Rittgers P 6-2 210 So

15. 
Kevin McDougal QB 6-2 194 Sr.


50.1 
41.3 36.2 
16. Chris Parenti QB 6-1 193 Sr. 
19.6 
16. 
Brian Perry DB 6-1 205 Fr. 

17. 
Brian Magee SS 5-10 199 So. 

18. 
Wade Smith QB 6-3 178 So.

19. 
Anthony Swiney DB 5-11 180 Fr.

20. 
M. Andrzejewski SS 5-7 163 Jr. 


19.5 
17.9 
13.2 
9.6 
20. 
Cikai Champion WR 5-11 170 Fr. 

21. 
Bobby Taylor FS 6-3 191 So. 

22. 
Rob Leonard KP 6-1 186 Sr.


Tot 153 
22. 
Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 187 Jr. 

23. 
Brian Baker SE 5-10 179 Sr. 

24. 
C. Stafford Fl 5-10 182 Jr. 

25. 
Brent Boznanski KP 6-3 174 Sr. 


364 
25. 
Randy Kinder TB 6-1 205 Fr. 

26. 
Orew Marsh K 6-1 187 Sr. 


26. Mark Monahan DB 6-0 175 So. 
34. Ray Zellars FB 5·11 218 Jr. 
Long 
35. Tim Klusas TB 5·8 186 Jr. 
100 
35. Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So.
20 
36 Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 Jr. 
37. 
Travis Davis TB 6-0 192 Jr. 

38. 
Rick lozano FB 5-10 189 Sr. 


Long 
38. 
Sim Stokes DB 6-2 200 Fr. 

39. 
Kinnon Tatum DB 6-1 195 Fr.


56 
60 17 
39. 
Marcus Thorne LB 6-Q 215 So. 

40. 
Kevin Carretta lB 6-1 207 So. 

41. 
Joe Babey LB 6-2 218 So. 

42. 
Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 155 Jr. 


42. 
Alton Maiden DE 6-4 260 So. 

43. 
Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 224 So. 



45. Jeff Kilburg LB 6-4 250 Fr. 
45. 
John lynch WR 6-2 179 So. 

46. 
Dan McConnell 

47. 
Pete Bereich 

48. 
Renaldo Wynn 

49. 
A. Peterson 

50. 
Greg Stec 

51. 
Melvin Dansby 

52. 
G. Holden 

53. 
Jim Kordas 

54. 
Justin Goheen 

55. 
Oliver Gibson 

56. 
S. Armbruster 


56. 
Huntley Bakich 

57. 
R. Kaczenski 


57. 
Joseph Adent 

58. 
Jeremy Nau 

59. 
Lance Johnson 

60. 
Bert Berry 

61. 
Tim Ruddy 

62. 
M. McCullough 

63. 
Jason Beckwith 

64. 
Steve Misetic 

65. 
Lyron Cobbins 

66. 
Todd Norman 

67. 
Mark Zataveski 

68. 
Jeff Riney 

69. 
David Quist 

70. 
Mike McGlinn 

71. 
Herbert Gibson 

72. 
Ryan Leahy 

73. 
Mike Doughty 

74. 
Willlyell 

75. 
Aaron Taylor 

76. 
Jeremy Akers 

77. 
Dusty Zeigler 

78. 
Jordan Hailer 

79. 
Chris Kurpeikis 

80. 
Oscar McBride 

81. 
Rich Sauget 

82. 
Joe Carroll 


85. 
Robert Hughes 

86. 
Ben Foos 

87. 
lake Dawson 

88. 
Leon Wallace 

89. 
John Kouris 

90. 
Brian Hamilton 

91. 
Damell Smith 

92. 
John Taliaferro 

93. 
Paul Grasmanis 

94. 
Reggie Fleurima 

95. 
Chris Clevenger 

96. 
Thomas Knight 


96. 
S. Schroffner 

97. 
Bryant Young 

98. 
P. Chryplewicz 

99. 
Cliff Stroud 


So. Sr. 
So. 
Sr. Sr.: Jr. Sr.
,-Sr.-" Sr. Jr. Jr. 
sr:,
So.·' Sr. Sr. Jr. Sr. Fr.· Sr. Sr. Sr. 
So. 
Observer graphics Brendan Regan 
OG OG OG lB OT OG OG DT OT OT OT OL OG OT OT OT OT Ol 
TE TE 
WR 1E 
DT 
SE TE TE DE DE DT DT DT DE DE I( DT TE DT 
Fl 5-10 175 So. lB 6-2 237 Sr. DE 6-3 230 So lB 6-0 223 Sr. c 6-2 250 Jr. lB 6-4 250 Fr. DT 6-4 245 Jr. OG 6-5 271 Jr. lB 6-2 226 Jr. NT 6-3 275 Sr. 
c 6-0 205 Jr. DE 6-2 203 Jr. TE 6-4 240 Fr. lB 5·11 200 So. DE 6-4 234 Jr. C 6-1 265 Sr. lB 6-4 230 Fr. C 6-3 286·Sr. 
6·3 274 So. 6-2 242 Sr. 6-5 266 So. 6-2 230 Fr. 6-6 297 Sr. 6-6 295 Jr. 6-5 268 Jr. 6-5 248 So. 6-6 285 Sr. 6-5 289 Jr. 6-4 290 Jr. 6-8 255 Fr. a:5 263 So. 6-4 299 Sr. !» 272 So. 6-6 2«l So. 6-7 2!li Sr. 6-7 290 Fr. 6-5 25'1 Sr. 6-4 218 Jr. 5-9 1!JJ Jr. 6-7 2li6 Sr. 6-4 226 so: 6-1 2U2 Sr. 6-3 268 So. 6-3 218 So 
6-3 275 Sr. 6-5 :lim Fr. 6-3 261 .i'. &3 2!1i So 6-3 262 Jr. 6-7 245 Fr. 6-4 231 So 5-9 T60 Jr. 6-3 277 Sr. 6-5 233 So 6-3 264 So 


r--------------------~~-----------~------~ ~~­
========================================================~================================================================ 
COVER STORY 

College gives him an excellent do his best." chance at becoming just the That philosophy has not only
Becton 

fifth Notre Dame running back carried Becton to greatercontinued from page 1 to rush for 1,000 yards in one heights as a runner, but has Lou Holtz. season. Only Brooks, Ferguson, helped him to improve in all 
Becton will agree he may not Pinkett, and AI Hunter can facets of the game. have the breakaway speed of a claim that distinction. "I think there's more to being Reggie Brooks or Hicky "It really feels good to have a running back than just run­
Watters, but his long strides, my name up there with Allen ning the ball. There are other 
shifty style, and tremendous Pinkett, who was a great run­things as far as receiving, heart have convinced all the ning back here," says the unas­blocking," notes Becton. doubters who said he didn't suming Ernul, N.C. native. "I "I just feel like throughout the have what it takes to be Notre feel that it's a great honor to years I've worked on those Dame's starting tailback. just have my name mentioned things to where I feel like not 
"Things like that tend to at the same time as him." that I can't get better, but I make you want to work harder Becton's name is being men­think I'm on the right track to and establish yourself as a tioned a lot lately. It has been being a complete running back. starter, which I took this spring said that statistics don't lie, and "It's just nice to know that 
to do that," says Becton of the what Becton has done this sea­your team can count on you. challenge that awaited him son has been just short of And not just running but catch-/ 
before the season. "I went out amazing. ing or making a block." and I practiced hard everyday Another hamstring injury To say that Becton has been to establish myself. sidelined Becton for the Irish's counted on this season is a ma­
"I really don't think about week-four victory over Purdue, jor understatement. llis run­them. People can say what ever and he could manage 25 yards ning has been a major factor in 
they want to say. I'm gonna just on just six carries while still the Irish achieving their first go out and play and not let hampered by the injury the No. 1 ranking since 1990. If what they say affect my play." next week at Stanford. Notre Dame is ultimately suc­However, not only has Lee Since those two games Becton cessful in its quest for yet an­
Becton silenced the critics with has rattled of the improbable other national championship, his emergence this season, he string, which includes a 16-Becton will undoubtedly be has gone beyond nearly all of carry, 142-yard game against tagged as one of the heroes. the goals set by even his most Pittsburgh, a 20-carry, 177-His success on the ground fervent supporters. Becton is yard performance against USC, that game just like any other, satisfied, and to always do bet­this year seems to be parallel­now starting to carve a place and last week's 122-yard effort and that allowed him to per­ter." ing the Irish's surprising suc­
against then top-ranked Florida cess on the gridiron, and he's
for himself in the hallowed form the way he did. "I always told him to alwaysState. loving every minute of it.
Notre Dame record books. "I always want to do well, but do the best he could and to goBecton's 122-yard perfor­"I never really thought about
Becton has put together a I pretty much think that I can the whole 100 percent," says mance is even more amazing it happening," says Becton of
string of five consecutive games always improve on the things Mrs. Becton. "And that's what considering that Florida State achieving the No. 1 ranking. "I
with at least 100 yards rush­that I do," says Becton. ''I'm he's believed in. I told him not was leading the nation in rush­always dreamed that it would
ing-a string equaled only by always striving to do better." to go in half-stepping-he former Irish All-American Allen ing defense before the show­be great to happen, but l never
Becton says he formed that knows what he's capable of so down. actually thought that it could or
Pinkett. attitude through his mother, he just has to do all he can. 
The dominating Seminole de­that it would. 
Not Jerome Heavens, not who has always told him to "But I didn't even think he'd fense was starting to make a "Its a great feeling, especially 
Vagas Ferguson, not even never be satisfied with being do this much," she adds. "I 
habit of shutting down the op­getting close to a thousand
Brooks was able to accomplish average. thought he might carry the ball 
posing team's top running yards and the team's success
such a feat. "My mother had a great influ­every so often or maybe move backs. That was until Becton being as it is, l mean we're
Furthermore, Becton's 922 ence on me," remarks Becton. to another position-he can yards heading into this week­came along. "She always told me that I am play just about any position you number-one. It really feels 
Becton says he approached good."
end's matchup against Boston doing good, but that I can't be know. He just always strives to 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Join us for a special book signing with author Stephen Singular Saturday, Nov. 20th from 8:30a.m. -9:30a.m. NOTIE NOTRE DAME'S GREATEST DAME1s COACHES GREATEST COACHES Rockne, Leahy, ROCKNE Parseghian, LEAHY PllRSEGHIIlNHoltz HOLTZEd Moose Krause and Stephen Singular MOOSE KRAUSE STEPHEN SINGULAR  Special Football Weekend Hours Friday 9 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 8 a.m. -7 p.m. No single football team in America has so dominated collegiate sports as Notre Dame has. And no other team has commanded a more loyal following or drawn such consistently large audiences for its nationally broadcast games. Now, for the millions of Fighting Irish fans from coast to coast, here is a unique opportunity to share the excitement through a celebration of its four great coaches: Knute Rockne, Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz. This is a story only Ed "Moose" Krause could tell. Associated with Notre Dame for over sixty years as a player, a coach, and the school's Athletic Director through three decades, he knew and admired each of these four men; he knew first-hand their values, their techniques, their ability to inspire. And Krause's memories-rich, colorful, anecdotal­come to life in the pages of this extraordinary book. Here is the fiery rhetoric, and the inspired leadership; here are the intensity, commitment and pride that have driven the coaches and have turned their teams into perennial contenders for the national championship and ten·time winners. This is a memoir written in the enduring spirit of Notre Dame itself. MOOSE KRAUSE is Notre Dame's only dual Hall of Farner, in football and basketball. STEPHEN SINGULAR is a New York Times bestselling author whose previous books include Talked to Death, which was the basis of Oliver Stone's Talk Radio.  

Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 7 

-

Best 
Who is the Best Running Back to Wear a Notre Dame uniform? 
Dame's career rushing leader. 
by 

Jason Kelly 
around him. Heavens still holds freshman
L
ee Becton's name is 
In four years as the starting records for yards in game (148) 
seldom mentioned in 

the same breath as tailback, Pinkett carried the and yards in a season (756) set Notre Dame's great ball 889 times for 4,131 yards, in 1975. 
running backs of the past. both career records. In 1977 he finished just six That may change Saturday. Pinkett's five straight 100-yards short of 1,000 and he is yard rushing games came in tied with Gipp for third on the
He could become Notre Dame's all-time leader in con­
the middle of the 1983 season all-time list with 10 career 100 secutive 100 yard games with against Colorado, South yard games. Carolina, Army, USC and Navy. 
six if he passes the century 
He rushed for 100 yards a REGGIE BROOKS 
mark against Boston College. 
Becton is currently tied with record 21 times in his career. Lost in the shadow of his Allen Pinkett with five straight older brother Tony, Reggie 
games of 100 yards or more. VAGAS FERGUSON Brooks broke out of it in a big He needs just 78 yards to join Notre Dame's all-time leading way in 1992. Pinkett, Reggie Brooks, Vagas rusher until Pinkett came It began in the second game 
along, Ferguson was the fea­of the season against Michigan Ferguson and AI Hunter as the tured running back from 1976-with his breath-taking touch­only Irish backs to gain 1,000 
79. down run.
yards or more in a single sea­
son. He still stands second on the It continued throughout the all-time list with 3,472 career season as he became the first
Lee Becton? 
Believe it or not, Becton will yards. back in the Holtz era to rush for His single-game and single­more than 1,000 yards in a sea­
likely join some prestigious 
company in the Notre Dame !lf:lll,.Son rushing reGords still son. record books this week. stand. He ran for 255 yards He finished with an 8.04 
Has he now carved a position against Georgia Tech in 1978 yards per carry average, less for himself among the greatest and collected 1,437 yards dur­than one tenth behind Gipp on backs in Notre Dame history? ing the 1979 season. the all-time list. 
You be the judge. He also joins Reggie Brooks Brooks was a punishing run­and Jim Stone as the only Irish ner, breaking more tackles
yards in just three seasons of
runners to have two 200-yard than he avoided. 
extended action. 
ALLEN PINKETT games in their careers. Twice he ran for more than In the "Pinkett-Pinkett­200 yards in a game, against
JEROME HEAVENS 
PHIL CARTER Purdue and USC.
Pinkett-Punt" era of the mid­·Heavens set the career rush­
80s, records were broken like Carter bridged the gap Virtually unknown before the
ing mark in 1978, a record the
between the Ferguson and season began, Brooks' successthe hearts of Irish fans. 
legendary George Gipp owned
Pinkett eras. helped him finish fifth in thePinkett owns virtually every for more than 50 seasons.
Notre Dame rushing record, He rushed for 117.4 yards per Heisman Trophy balloting. 
He finished his career withdue in large part to an o!Tense game in 1980. 
2,682 and remains third on the
that revolved almost entirely Carter remains fourth on the JEROME BETTIS 
all-time list. 
all-time rushing list with 2,409 Bettis generally hit defensive 
A Forgotten Star 
Vagas Ferguson was the great back 
few people remember 
F
ew running backs in Notre and it's great that you're name still Dame history have made as gets mentioned after all these big an impact as Vagas years,". he said. "but your best mem­Ferguson. ories are of the friends and the com­He was a member of the 1977 raderie on the team." national championship team. He is Ferguson is currently the athletic the No. 2 all-time leading rusher in director at his alma mater, school history, behind only Allen Richmond (Ind.) High School. Pinkett. He holds Notre Dame He played for Dan Devine at Notre records for yards in a game (255 Dame from 1976-79, collecting a against Georgia Tech in 1978) and total of 3,472 yards. yards in a season (1 ,437 in 1979). Irish running back Lee Becton Yet few people seem to think of probably will never approach Ferguson when they think of Notre Ferguson's rushing totals, but he is Dame's past greats. on a quest for a record of his own Everyone knows the legendary fig­today-six consecutive 100-yard ures like George Gipp and the Four games. Horsemen. And more recent greats No other Irish running back has like Allen Pinkett, Reggie Brooks and ever accomplished that feat. In fact, Jerome Bettis are fresh in every­Pinkett is the only back ever to have one's mind. five consecutive 100-yard games. 
Ferguson seems to get lost in the "It's a great accomplishment and I shuffie, but he doesn't mind the lack wish him good luck," Ferguson said 
of attention. of Becton's quest for the record, but What he remembers most about he is reluctant to compare himself to his career at Notre Dame isn't the the running backs of today. 
big gamP.s or the records. "This is a different era and each It's the friends he made along the person is different. Lee has been 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

way. playing very well and I hope he con­"The accomplishments are nice tinues to play and help the team win Few people remember Vagas Ferguson as one of Notre the national title." Dame's great running backs. 


Reggie Brooks' one-season wonder vaulted him to legendary status. 
players harder than they hit him. 
Fourth and two. Give it to Jerome, no problem. 
He played only two full sea­sons, leaving after his junior year and leaving quite an im­pression. 
Bettis had Notre Dame's 19th and 20th all-time rushing games, collecting 179 yards against Stanford in 1991 and 178 against USC the same year. 
He is 13th on the career­rushing chart with 1,912 yards. 
Had he stayed for his senior season, he probably would have moved up to at least No. 3 on the all-time list. 
LEE BECTON? 

It is unclear where Becton fits into this group. 
His numbers will never com­pare to Pinkett's or Ferguson's because the Irish have too much depth at his position. 
He is not fast or flashy. And he isn't as dominating a runner as Brooks or Bettis. 
But he has been as consistent as an Irish tailback in recent years. 
Five, going on six, 100 yard games and potentially only the second 1,000 rusher in the Holtz era. 
Does Becton belong among the best running backs in Notre Dame history? 
You be the judge. 
BY THE 
NUMBERS 
TC YDS AVG TO Allen Pinkett 
889 4131 4.6 49 

Vagas Ferguson 
673 3472 5.2 32 

Jerome Heavens 
590 2682 4.5 15 

Phil Carter 
557 2409 4.3 4 

Reggie Brooks 
198 1508 7.6 15 

Jerome Bettis 
337 1912 5.7 27 
·:f":'

Lee Becton 
233 1357 5.8 8 
-
.. 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
Notre Dame is special for Eagle fans 

l A~~ o 
set o 
V V Colleg to town 
ll-imbibed Eagl 
flooded N 
's Friday 
rally 
an 

They vigorously chanted their Eagle 
throughout the proceedings, dis­
tfully interrupting players, coac 
guest speakers alike. 

an Wagner, last year's leprechaun, 
need the Eagle contingency at th 
's closing when he noted that uu;,.u,ul 
ge and Notre Dame have 
mon-they're both excellent 

institutions with outstanding athl 
and Catholic 

However, if there's one thing that disti 
Notre Dame from 

liege," he said, "it's that Notre Dame 
It wasn't that they hated Notre Dam 
or felt that disrupting the rally woul 
prove to be a strategic advantage. They 
ply acted true to their nature-over­confident and outrageous. 
The B.C. weekend usually proves to be a unique experience for Notre Dame stu­dents. Eagle fans start arriving in Winnebagos on Wednesday and Thursday and take both the campus and South Bend by storm. 
They charge to the local pubs and watering holes in order to adequately experience "the Irish tradition." Strangers clad in maroon and gold march proudly around the quads. 
There's just something intangible about Notre Dame that captivates BC fans. You see, Boston College does not have the tradition of success of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame was the team mos Bostonians followed when the Eagles were struggling. The Irish stood for the same ideals and held many of the 
same traditions as Boston College. 
It also didn't hurt that Boston has one of the largest Irish communities in the country. You would lind more peo Boston wearing Notre Dame's LHILIIIII~< than that of any other college. 
For many Boston College fans, the trek to South Bend is more than just a trip--it's a pilgrimage. 
So when the Eagles came out to South Bend last year as an undefeated team, they really didn't know how to act. It was almost like they had a conflict of interest. 
It's time for me to come clean. For 51 weeks a years I am a Boston College fan. I warp facts and disregard reason with the sole objective of convincing that "this is the year" for the BC. This is, in fact, my favorite weekend of the year. 

And in all objectivity, Irish fans should be much more concerned about this game than they currently are. Since falling in its first two games of the season to No. 4 Miami and to an Northwestern squad which also 
gave the Irish a challenge, Boston College has won seven consecutive games. 
Anyone expecting a repeat of las 
54-7 shellacking of the Eagles is 
are that you'll be caught o 

d at some point this weekend b 
something said or done by an Eagle fan. 
"Notah Dame is a wicked _good te 
and they ah numbah one for 
typical Boston College fan will say. 
play hahd we may j 
Don't let comments like this disturb ou, because all Catholics deserve dream the impossible. 
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Bryan Connolly, Jonathan Jensen, Mike Norbut, Timothy Seymour 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 19, 1993 
Miami, Ohio State, Alabama face road tests Games of Interest 
Miami tries to stay in the national With the way the Tide has played title hunt as it heads into what will as of late, it would not be surpris­be a frenzied Morgantown as the ing to see them get beaten by an undefeated Mountaineers play their inspired Auburn Tiger/War Eagle biggest game since they played for squad. 
11/14 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 11/07
the national title against the Irish in 1988. 
1. Notre Dame (62) . 10-0-0 1550 2
Ohio State at Michigan

Last week West Virginia rolled 
Wouldn't it be nice to 

2. Florida State 9-1-0 1467 1
over pitiful Temple 49-7, as backup see the 
Wolverines end up 6-5? This couldquarterback Darren Studstill threw 

3. Nebraska ·,, " 1D-O·O 1390 4
happen if they lose to the 9-0-1for 27 4 yards and completed 17 of 

4. ~s~~ 1351 3
Buckeyes in Ann Arbor. 

his 28 passes. Mountaineer tailback 
If Michigan does pull off the 

5. ...~.-1 1273 5
Hobert Walker continues to im­
upset, the Buckeyes may see their 

6. ...-r......._......... 1227 7
press, as he ran for 130 yards on Rose Bowl hopes go down the
14 carries. Notre Dame transfer 
7. 1195 6
drain. They will have to sit backJake Kelchner figures to shake off and watch Wisconsin and Michigan 

8. 1124 8
his injury and be back in the saddle State tangle in Tokyo in December.
next weekend. 

9. 1066 9
If the Badgers win, they will go toMiami, on the other hand, strug­

10. Texas A 1009 11
their first Rose Bowl since the '60s. 

gled to defeat a poor Rutgers squad Imagine, the Big Ten title being 
11. Ala 934 12
in the Orange Bowl. The Scarlet one on the other side of the globe.
Knights pulled to within 24-17 with 
12. 852 14
It could happen. 

13:41 left in the game, but the 
13. North Carolina 821 15
Hurricanes went on to win 31-17. 
Hyan Collins ended up throwing for UCLA at USC 
14. Pen ip~te 737 16 291 yards and two scores. 
15. Okl · .. a 8-2-0 629 17
The Hose Bowl will be decided 

Look for the Mountaineers to go 
the old fashioned way: in the 

16. u .07 10
ahead early on the strength of their Coliseum between the traditional 
17. Boqt. ·· 513 22
crowd, but Miami's strength and Pac-Ten powers. However, this 
't ·~ 
big game experience should tri­
18. -482 21
year something is different. . 
It!

c~r2ra .,~.
umph in the end. 
The Trojans are an uninspiring 7­

19. Anln ',j -2-0 478 13 
4, as they gained a chance at the 

20. Kansas State • ' 7-2-1 324 24 
Alabama at Auburn crown after beating No. 25 
21. Indiana " 7-3-0 268 19
The undefeated Tigers have been Arizona had crushed USC 38-7 ear­
22. Southern Cal 7-to-~ ]203
instilled as a one-point favorite in lier in the year, but the Wildcatsthis year's Iron Bowl over the once­
23. Virginia 7-:J-0 1144 18
n
were eliminated from the race withbeaten and once-tied Roll Tide, and 

24. Clemson .# t 7-l-0 I 110
last week's 24-20 loss to Cal.

they will be playing at home in On the other side of town, UCLA 
25. Virginia Tech -7-J-o J 90
Jordan-Hare Stadium for a change. 
.• ~~~/
(.. ___.
lost to an inspired Arizona StateAuburn rolled at Georgia 42-28 squad 9-3 after it looked like theylast week to preserve their 10-0 

Others receiving votes: Michigan State 82,
had the title all but wrapped up. 

record, as electrifying running back 
ASU linebacker Dan Lucas re­

Louisville 71, North Carolina State 34, Arizona
James Bostic ran for 183 yards and turned an interception 31 yards in· three touchdowns. 
State 32, Mich,igarr28,Wyoming 27, Cincinnati
the fourth quarter to win the gameMeanwhile, the Tide continued to 

12, Washing(~:\r~:~~resno State 6, Washington
for the Sun Devils. 

struggle, squeaking past the 2-6-2 However, it looks like UCLA quar­
State 4, Ball ~te l.~~v<Wa 1.
Mississippi State Bulldogs 36-25 on terback Wayne Cook will return
the strength of a Lemanski Hall 
after missing the ASU game with anrunback of a blocked field goal. The injury, and the Trojans may get 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

field goal would have tied the game burned by the nation's top receiver, 
UCLA's J.J. Stokes. 
quarter. 




Jonathan Jensen Overall: 61-38 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Ohio State Auburn Miami Clemson Wisconsin Navy Virginia BYU UCLA Stanford 

Jason Kelly Overall: 57-42 Last Week: 6-5 
Notre Dame Michigan Auburn Miami South Carolina Wisconsin Navy Virginia BYU UCLA Stanford 

George Dohrmann Overall: 59-40 Last Week: S-6 
Notre Dame Michigan Alabama Miami Clemson Wisconsin SMU Virginia Tech BYU UCLA Stanford 

Bryan Connolly Overall: 32-23 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Ohio State Auburn Miami Clemson Wisconsin Navy Virginia BYU 
usc 
Stanford 
The Observer Sports Staff wel­comes a few members of the Sports Information student staff, whipped into shape by fearless ringleader Rose Pietrzak-a ray of sunshine on an otherwise cloudy day. 
Observer Sports Staff 
Last week: 25-19 
vs Sports Info Assistants 
Last week's guests: 27-17 
#17 Boston College at #1 Notre Dame #5 Ohio State at Michigan #11 Alabama at #6 Auburn #4 Miami at #9 West Virginia Clemson at South Carolina #12 Wisconsin at Illinois SMU at Navy #25 Virginia Tech at #23 Virginia Utah at BYU #16 UCLA at #22 USC California at Stanford 
At 
Charlie Bare 
Notre Dame Michigan Alabama Miami South Carolina Wisconsin Navy Virginia Tech BYU 
usc 
Stanford 


Lina Balciunas 
Notre Dame Michigan Alabama Miami South Carolina Wisconsin Navy Virginia Utah 
usc 
Stanford 
Kathy Connors 
Notre Dame Ohio State Alabama Miami South Carolina Wisconsin Navy Virginia BYU 
usc 
Stanford 
Tim Fischer 
Notre Dame Michigan Auburn West Virginia Clemson Wisconsin Navy Virginia BYU UCLA Stanford 


---------. 
Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 13 
I 

IS 

• 
--------~--~--~ 




After hours in Chicago and South Bend 
Morris Civic Auditorium : Calendar of Events 
Robert Cray (jazz performer), Saturday, November 20 at 8 p.m., $21.50. 
It's a Wonderful Life (musical), Friday, Dec 10 at 8 p.m., and Saturday Dec 11 at 2 p.m. and 8 
p.m. Prices : evening shows -main floor/ 1st balcony $28.50, 2nd bal­cony $23.50, 3rd balcony $14.50 Saturday matinee -orchestra/mez­zanine $29.50, main floor/ 1st bal­cony $25.50. 2nd balcony $21.50, 3rd balcony $13.50 
Shirly Valentine featuring Loretta Swift Friday, February 25 at 8 p.m., and Saturday February 26 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Prices :evening shows­main floor/ 1st balcony $28.50, 2nd balcony $23.50, 3rd balcony $13.50 Saturday matinee -orchestra/mez­zanine $29.50, main floor/ 1st bal­cony $25.50, 2nd balcony $21.50, 3rd balcony $13.50 
Oklahoma! Friday, March 11 at 8 
p.m., and Saturday, March 12 at 2 
p.m. and 8 p.m. Prices: evening shows-main floor/ 1st balcony $29.50, 2nd bakony $24.50, 3rd balcony $14.50 Saturday matinee­orchestra/mezzanine $31.50, main floor/ 1st balcony $27.50, 2nd bal­cony $23.50, 3rd balcony $13.50 
4 

••• There is a $2 discount for stu­dents at any performance and a dis­count of%10 for groups of 10 or Inore.••• 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra "Mostly Beethoven-One" January 

15 

Daniel Gaisford, Cello 
Beethoven Leonore Overture No. 3 
Elgar Cello Concerto in e 
minor, Op. 85 
Beethoven Symphony No. 6 in F 
...

Major, Op. 68, "Pastorale" 
"Mostly Beethoven -Two" 
February 19 
Janina Fialkowska, Piano 
Beethoven Coriolan Overture, Op. 
62 

Mozart Piano Concerto No. 20 in 
d minor, K. 466 
Beethoven Piano Concerto No. 4 in 
g major, Op. 58 
•••Season tickets are now on sale. 
A student discount is availabte. For 
more information call 232-6343 ..• 
CHICAGO 
A Christmas Carol, The Goodman 
Theatre located at 200 S. Columbus 
Dr. Opened November 11, and will 
be preformed Tuesdays through 
Thursdays at 7:30p.m., Fridays at 8 
p.m. 
Satudays and Sundays 2:30 

p.m. 
and 8 p.m. Runs through December 25th. Prices range from $26 -$32. For more information call (312) 443-3800. 


.Joseph and the Amazing 
Technicolor Dreamcoat, Chicago 
Theater located at 175 N. State. 
Tuesdays!fhursdays at 7:30p.m. 
Wednesday at 2 p.m. and 7:30p.m., 
Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 p.m. 
and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m. Prices 
range from $29.50-$58. For more 
information call (312) 902-1500. File Photo 
Robert Gray brings his distinctive R&B guitar style to the Morris Civic Auditorium on Saturday. 
-
-



Star Plaza Theatre in Chicago, Illinois 
Calendar of Events: 
Def Comedy Jam, Nov. 19 at 7:30p.m., $22 Chicago, Nov. 20 at 8 p.m.t $27 Diamond Rio and Aaron Tippin with special guest Tracy Byrd, Nov. 21 at 7 p.m., $23 The Beach Boys, Nov. 24, 7 p.m., $27 The Temptations and The Spinners with spe­cial guest George Wallace, Nov. 26 and 27 at 8 p.m., $26 Wayne Newton, Nov. 28 at 4 p.m., $24 The Nutcracker On Ice starring Tai Babilonia, Randy Gardner, and Linda Fratianne, Dec. 3 at 8 p.m.; Dec. 4, show times at 4 p.m. and 8 p.m.; 

and Dec. 5 at 4 p.m., $25* The Colors of Christmas starring Peabo Bryson, Roberta Flack, Jeffrey Osborne, and Patti Austin, Dec. 11 at 8 p.m., $28 Mel Torme's Christmas Show, Dec. 17 at 8 p.m., $22 Bernie Mac, Dec. 18 at 8 p.m., $21 The Johnny Cash Christmas Show starring June Carter Cash and The Carter Family with John Carter Cash, Dec. 19 show time at 4 p.m., $21 David Copperfield, Dec. 21-23, show times at 5 p.m. and 8 p.m., $26 Oak Ridge Boys with special guest Patty Loveless, Dec. 31, at 7 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., $32**. Jan. 1 show time at 8 p.m., $22 
*Children age 12 and under admission $23 **Prices include $10 in food and beverage coupons 
•

Glee Club tnetnor1es: candlelight, castles, and wine 
In 1969, when I started going on extended bus trips as the Glee Club chaplain, I was twice the size physically, though only half the man spiritually, that I am now. This meant that when I got up from my seat, two  Father Robert Griffin Bellers Ia a Bone.(y 9od  tronic toys from Sony. The Glee Clubbers I go to Europe with are just as good as all this says. I want them to see Europe, because I want Europe to see them. As good will am­bassadors, they bring with  Blarney Stone. So, lads, thanks for the mem­ories of candlelight and wine, and castles on the Rhine. The candlelight I always see in my mind's eye is from the altars where we shared Mass at St.  
..  Clubbers could be made com­fortable in the space I left be­hind me. Thanks to the peregrinations of the Club, I've seen most of the landmarks featured on the videotape called. "This Is My Country," shown nightly on a local channel just before the station signs off with the National Anthem. I've seen the alabaster cities from sea to shining sea, and viewed the purple mountain majesties/Above the fruited plains, many times in the past quarter-century. And maybe before I die with my boots on as chaplain of the Club, I'll get to Alaska and Hawaii. As a boy growing up in Maine, I never traveled further away from home than New Hampshire, until I was nine­teen. Until I made my debut as guru to the Club, I'd never been west of the Mississippi, or clos­er to those cotton fields down South than the Arlington National Cemetery. I'm grateful for the way the lads have educated me, since everything I've seen, I've seen through their eyes, as well as my own: Disneyland and Disney World; the launch sites at Canaveral and Mission Control in Houston; the city by the Bay and "the great mother of big apples" on the Hudson; Pat O'Brien's in New Orleans and the I lolbrau Haus in Munich. Chaps my age who have seen Berlin, saw  it buried in rubble as G.L Joes. I saw it with Clubbers, who went through Checkpoint Charlie as guests of what once had been the Army of Occupation. Hiding shotgun on a Greyhound with the Glee Club, you can become bus-wise from the noise that stays in your head. I traveled once on a bus with the football team as their game chaplain. They don't sing loud songs, or horse around, or yell at each other. They wear neckties, look out the window, chew gum a lot, and mentally review their game plan. They don't tend to leave sweethearts in every port, since they're under no pressure to treat their fans charismatically. A spirited Glee Clubber, suit­ed up or wearing his grubbies, awake or asleep, on stage or oiT, starts wearing his heart on his sleeve the minute he's off the bus. For me, being with them in the heartland, away from this campus, is like being an extra in a Hollywood musi­cal made in the Forties. The script is light comedy: Boy meets Girl. Boy wins Girl, wooing her with music as a member of the ratpack he trav­els with, all of whom resemble each other like clones of Elvis. Boy leaves Girl, to the tune of the Victory March. Boy, back on bus, writes Girl a "Dear Jane" letter, which he mails at the  next overnight stop, where he will look for another heart to break. Boy explains to Girl that though he will always respect and care for her, there could never be more between them than a one-night stand, since he has a campus sweetheart, or a home-town-honey, whom he doesn't want to hurt. The End. This is a typical scenario, though there are alternate ver­sions. At the end of the trip, awards, seldom flattering, are passed out to Glee Club chaps who have been the most visible as philanderers. American college students abroad are easily identifiable, since they tend to be better­looking and better-fed than their European counterparts. Arriving in typically overcast London, already sun-tanned in early June, demi-godly crea­tures from the brave, new world showing oiT their perfect teeth they seem a breed apart from their pasty-faced English cousins, though the English complexion can be full of roses. Walking through Victoria Station, I can tell who the Americans are, when those youths from all nations descend from their buses, by their un­conscious grace as heirs of the Dream; by their blue-eyed charm as innocents abroad; by their good-nature as Happy Warriors backpacking elec­ them neither tanks, bombs, nor napalm. In WW II, Yankee Doodle went to London, just to meet the ladies. lie kissed the girls and made them cry, when he them all behind him. The London Times told the story of of Yankee Doodle Dandy, who stuck his face in every pub, and with the girls was handy. "Overpaid! Over­sexed! And Over Here" the headlines complained. When the Gentleman song­sters are not on a spree, they'd willingly die, if they could, for the sins of Yankee Doodle Dandy as the ugly American, perfidious in Albion. Clubbers are some of the dearest fellows alive. They keep the rest of us from leading lives of quiet des­peration, and we've grown accustomed to their grace. I could tell you where the the bodies are buried, if there were any bodies in Clubbers' lives. Their press notices are like an absolution. In Switzerland, Clubbers left the Alps just where they found them; and when they left Austria, the hills were alive with the sound of music, the same as always In Germany, it was those other Yanks who hung out the wash­ing on the Siegfried Line. In France, they left Mademoiselle from Armenteers-who hasn't been kissed in forty years-just as unfulfilled as when they found her; and in Ireland, they wore condoms when they kissed the  Mark's in Venice, at Notre Dame in Paris, and in the Catholic chapel at Dachau, one of the sites of the I Iolocaust. The wine which I will not for­get was the new wine we were served in Vienna in 1971, in shops which sported young trees over the door, as a sign that the spring wine, which went down like water and came up like thunder, was on sale there. I remember the deaths, in­cluding Dean's, and transfigu­rations which took place when­ever lads. drunk with weariness and the ordeals of travel, switched from their bus tog­gery, into sweat-stained tails, and shirts that looked gray from lack of laundering. And going on stage, they turned out a performance that shook down the thunder from the skies, and maybe drew down the cherubim who were awed by the sound from the heaven's above the thunder. This kind of a transfiguration is the meat and potatoes of a Glee Clubber's life. Everything else is a fringe benefit. As the chaplain, I'm there as a cheerleader, who must remain an outsider, who never stands on risers and sings. I get a lion's share of the fringe benefits, but the trans­figurations are perquisites to which only Cluboers are enti­tled, together with the Director who delivers the miracle com­ing from God.  
yo ' I cr. hr.; T 02:00.0530; Perminion  rae lee, cc. cs.; Permission Required; cross-listed  COMN-. 304 28  onge •me t9728 -Remove Penniuion Required and  MARK 231801  f'IQ8 1me 10663 · Change dayo &t;me k>:H 2:~5-5:15  
Fundamonlalo ol Combuwon; 3 a. hn; MWF 02:20.03:10  EE  563 01  Required 15784 · StochaUic Process; 3 cr. hrs.;  MSA 57~  01  w;thGOVT 474 #5788 · Aud;ong Theocy and Pmct;ao; 3 cr.  COTH 361 01  COMM313 #5781 · Add f>'erequ;,;te· COTH 101, 1~.  MBA 645  01  12069 · Change cre<l;t hau" k> 3, beg;n/enddateolo 1/12/94 ·  
Per1urbation M.thodi; 3 cr. hrs.  Permission Required  hrs.; TH 01:1 5-02:30; cron-listed  201 or 204  4/27/94  
02 15793 · Norn-Htdent OiiYrtotion Research;  ENGL440M 01  15791 · ShokMpeare in Performance II; 4 cr.  w;thAC0~7S  COTH 468 01  #3800 · Change t;me lo: MW 02:20·04:50  ME  226 01  10986 · Change P'e·requ;,;telo  ME 225  
1ahr.  hn.; MWF 11: 15-12:30; Permission  PHYS 448  01  W5790 -Senior Seminar II; I cr. hr.; M  EDUC 340f 28  #8428 · Add r~lriction: tY.ajors only  and MATH 225  
· Non~idenl Oiuertation Research;  Required; crou-\isted w/ COTH 440  03;25·04:15  EDUC 350F  30 #8430 · Add restriction: Majors only  ME  236l 01  11188 · Atld: ME 236 a' CE 136 p,e,equ;  
1 cr. hr.  ENGl~7Z 01  15799 · Sem: 18thC.ntucyPoetry;3cr.h,..;  THE0500C  01 #5789 · faith and Trodition II; 3 cr. hrs.; H  EDUC 370  40  #8440 -Add restriction: W.Ojors only  site  
~88X 02 15795 · O;r lWei> ;n llioorchoeoiogy II; 3 cr. hn , Penniuion Required; only invit.  TH 02:45-04:00; cross-listed with ENGL 5506; Permission Required  THEOS99  08:30-10:30; Permission Required 02 #S810 · MA Theo;o; 6 cr. hn.  EDUC 370 EDUC 475  42 #8442 · Add restriction: W.OjOn. only 66 tl8466 -Add restriction: f.l.ojon only  ME  439 01  I 1929 · Change Pam type IQ; 0 and pre· requisile to {AERO 360 or ME 334)  
· o;<Odod Sludioo: ""'·cr. hn.;  ENGl-16SA 01  #5801 · V>Cio<Kin Ut. and Cullure; 3 cr. hn.;  ECON 123A01 15094  Changet;melo: MW01:15·02;05  and IME 327 "' CHEG 327} and  
Penniuton Required · C...w"""" Modol StnJd Mod.; 3 a.  TH 01:1 5.02:30; Majan only; aau·I;Uod with ENGl 567·01  ~ AERO 465 01  14506 -Remove all ~eWridions  ECON 123101 15061 · Change l;mo> Ia: f 01:15.02:05 ECON 123102 #5062 · Change ome lo: F 01:1 5.02·05  ME  .U5  01  !MATH 325"' ME 321) 10230 · Delere ME 340 as a prerequisite  
hn.;TH 1LQ0-12:1S  ENGl~97E 01  15800 · Object;.;., Slro;n Atn. Poetry; 3 cr.  ANTH 473 01  14978 · Add Perminion Required  ECON 123103 15063 · Changehmelo: F01·15·02:0S  ME  ~56  01  14855 · Chango t;me lo: MWF 02:20·03.10  
· Thermodynamic• Tutorial; 0 cr. hr.; M02:20-o3:10  h...; MW 02;20.()3:35; Jun;or and Senior majors only; cross-listed with  ARCH 2.16 01 ARCH S« 01  11116 · Changoomelo: TH 11:00·12:15 #1245 · Change ome lo: TH 09:00·1 0:45  ECON 123104 15064 · Changet;mela: F01:15.02:0S ECON 451 01 11177 · Chango pre-,equ;,;telo: ECON  Ml  525 01  1532~  Hie ohauld be: "Top;a: Early Christianity"'  
· Thrermod)'nomia Tutorial; 0 cr. hr.;  ENGl 590·01  ARCHS98A 01 #1251 · Changedayoandtimelo: W  350"'~  Ml  673 01  153~ · Chango 1;mo k>: W 02:30.05:00  
H02:~3:2S  GeNT ~7~ 01  15782 · CanRid R....lutian · Theocy and  06:30-09:30; remove Permission Required  ENGl 599  01  #5703 -Remove Penn inion Required  PSY  -453  01  •5420 · Add Permiuion Required  
32n03  15809 · Thrermod)'nomK> 1uk><K>i; 0 cr. hr.; W02:20-o3:10  Practice; 3 cr. hn.; W 02:30.()5:00; Junior and Senior majors only  ARCH598D 01  tl5n5 -Remove Permission Required,ond change t;me lo; MWF 10:1 Q-11 :00  ENGL600 ENGl699  01 01  j5704 · Remove Permiuion Required 15707 · R"""""' Penn;.,;on Requ;red  PSY ~0 ROFR -451  01 01  10075 · Chango 1;me lo; M 12:30-02:30 15-453 · Course i• taught in French  
. Modom Chom;otry & Biochem;otry  through 3rd period; then open 1o all  ARST 1505 01  102~9 · Change reo•kiK>n lo: ARHI, ARS1  ENGl700  01  15708 · R"""""' Penn;.,;on Requ;re<l  THEO 584  01  12730 · Change t;me lo: W 11 :20·12:35  
E  .164  01  Sominan; 0 cr hn.; H 01 :15.02:05;F...,._ only llndwg<..-.. lloooa<ch; ,.,KJbio a.&t houn; Pwmiuton R.quir.d 15787 · 1ntro 1o Neural"""""""'' 3 cr. hn.; TH II:()()-12: 15; cros•·lislred with  GeNT 496 01  Juniors and Senton; cross-listed with 11PS ~74G 15783 · Sac;.,! eanc.mo Sem;nar; Washington; l cr h.r .; Penniuioo Required contocl Center for Social Concenu; cross·li•tred w/ THEO 363  CAPP 470 01 CHEG 327 01  or DESN majors or intended Freshmen mojon only 13155 • Add Permiuion Required 12533 · Chango dayo and omo lo:TH 11 :Q0­12:15  GOVT 431 01 15202 · Add pre<equ;,;to;GOVT 141 "' ~1 H1S1 570 01 15279 · Change ome lo: TH 09:30·1 0:~ HIS1 685 01 15288 · Change day,& time 1oM 4:30.07:00 HPS 570 01 #5290 · Changeomelo: TH09:30·10:~S liPS 679A 01 #4069 · Chango hme Ia: TH 12:~.02:00 liPS 6798 01 14068 · Change hme lo; TH 12:~.02:00  THEO S93C 01 THE0616 01 THE0673 01 THE0680 01  13506 · Chango t;me lo: W 02:35.0~:35 tS57S · Changodayla: H09:30-12:00 tSS78 · Chango,;,.. lo: W 02:30.05:00 t2982 · Changet;melo: MW 12:50·02:05  
CSEQ2  liPS  ~7~G  01 15785 · c...R;d Reoolutian · Theocy and  CQURS£ CHANG£5 CONI  lAW 679A 01  #4067 · Change hme lo: TH 12:~·02:00  
OURSES CANCELLED  ENGL  3920  01  5126  ANTH  329  01  .4610  ENGL  322A  01  5118  HIST  .403  01  .4702  MSA  57.4  01  5788  
ENGL  .419C  01  513.4  ANTH  329  02  .4615  ENGL  3.40  01  5121  HIST  .403A  01  .4703  MUS  220  01  0763  
AME  598C-01  ENGL  .491A  01  515.4  ANTH  389  01  443.4  ENGL  38.4C  01  512.4  HIST  .420  01  .4399  MUS  222  01  3106  
ARST  446S-01  HIST  .403  01  .4702  ANTH  .403  01  .497.4  ENGL  3920  01  5126  HIST  447A  01  5268  MUS  223  01  32.47  
ARST  .476S-01  HIST  403A  01  .4703  ANTH  .45.4  01  3988  ENGL  .419B  01  5133  HIST  .45.4A  01  .4069  MUS  225  01  20.41  
- EE EE  .498A-01 .498J-01  HIST HIST  .420 .460A  01 01  .4399 3862  ARCH ARHI  598E 169  01 01  113.4 3773  ENGL ENGL  .419C .435A  01 01  513.4 5139  HIST HIST  .460A .477A  01 01  3862 5270  MUS MUS  226 230  01 01  1109 1655  
ENGL  .409-01  MGT  .499  01  .4775  ARHI  .403  01  .4997  ENGL  MOE'  01  51.42  HIST  .48.4  01  5271  PHIL  2.45  01  .4073  
ENGL  440A-01  MUS  220  01  0763  ARHI  .451  01  5003  ENGL  .458C  01  5144  HIST  .490  01  5272  PHIL  2.46  01  008.4  
ENGL  4408-01  MUS  225  01  20.41  ARST  212S  01  1.477  ENGL  .467A  01  51.49  liPS  .491A  01  .4300  PHIL  2.48  01  .451.4  
GOVT  .423-01  PHIL  2.45  01  .4073  ARST  232S  01  3068  ENGL  .471  01  5150  liPS  515E  01  .4581  PHIL  258  01  .4803  
GOVT  670-01  PHIL  258  01  .4803  BA  .46.4  01  37.43  ENGL  .480  01  5151  LAW  615C  01  0077  PHIL  261  01  1752  
HIST  66.4-01  soc  306  01  5.467  BA  .46.4  02  38.42  ENGL  .483  01  .409.4  LAW  631E  01  31.47  PSY  396A  01  5391  
liPS 423G-01  soc  .424  01  .4798  BA  .490  0.4  1.499  ENGL  .489  01  5152  LAW  631 F  01  2383  PSY  .479  01  5.42.4  
- MBA 696-01 ME .498C-01  THEO  2.43  02  1039  BIOS CE  344L .470  02 01  01.41 2437  ENGL ENGL  .489B .491A  01 01  5153 515.4  LAW LAW  631G 631H  01 01  00.41 2672  RLST RLST  213 213  20 22  9520 95_22  
ROSP  212-02  CLOSED COURSES  CHEM  22.4L  07  .4921  ENGL  .492E  01  5155  LAW  676  01  1220  ROSP  236  01  1077  
sc .456-01  CLAS  325  01  .40.43  ENGL  .497B  01  5159  LAW  695  01  3128  ROSP  .495  01  5731  
soc  525-01  ACCT  .479  01  1780  CLAS  .427  01  .4.420  ENGL  513  01  5162  LAW  695  02  3790  ROSP  .499  01  097.4  
soc  670-01  ACCT  .480  02  0744  CLAS  442  01  23.46  FIN  .478  01  2782  LAW  695  03  3010  soc  306  01  5.467  
THEO  366-01  AFAM  329  01  .4611  COMM 103  05  9705  GE  .410  01  .4095  LAW  695  0.4  0632  soc  3.46  01  .4081  
THEO  498-01  AFAM  372  01  .4097  COMM 103  07  9707  GOVT  3.43T  0.4  1.42.4  LAW  695  05  1211  soc  37.4  01  5.468  
AFAM  389  01  4433  COMM210  16  9716  GOVT  3.43T  08  15.47  LAW  695  06  21.40  soc  .419  01  .4362  
AFAM  .419B  01  .49.41  COMM 30.4  28  9728  GOVT  .45.4  01  520.4  LLRO  531  01  5.450  soc  .42.4  01  .4798  
AFAM  .45.4  01  .406.4  COMM .45.4  40  97.40  GOVT  .492B  01  5209  MARK  381  01  3366  soc  .4.40  01  5.471  
AMST  344H  01  .4987  ECON  .422  01  22.41  GOVT  .495  01  571.4  MARK  381  02  5739  THEO  2.43  02  1039  
AMST  3.47H  01  .4989  ECON  .487  01  0367  GSC  3.42  01  3277  MARK  .492  01  0770  THEO  252  01  00.47  
01  49.41  AMST  3.48H  01  .4990  EDUC  32.4  27  8.427  GSC  .419C  01  5182  MARK  .495  01  57.40  THEO  265  01  3001  
02  .4615  AMST  399E  01  .4955  EE  .498H  01  .4507  GSC  .42.4  01  .4799  MGT  .499  01  .4775  THEO  287  01  26.45  
403  01  .4997  AMST  .418E  01  .4959  ENGL  301  01  0758  GSC  .489  01  5186  Ml  .403  01  4701  THEO  .405  01  .4398  
.451  01  5003  AMST  431E  01  .4958  ENGL  301  02  5665  HIST  327A  01  3889  Ml  .435  01  5315  THTR  135  50  9750  
.490  04  1.499  AMST  458E  01  .4960  ENGL  305B  01  5103  HIST  337A  01  525.4  Ml  .49.4  01  5320  THTR  276  53  9753  
305B  01  5103  AMST  495E  01  .496.4  ENGL  310  02  5105  HIST  378A  01  5260  Ml  533  01  5327  THTR  .410  60  9760  
3.40  01  5121  AMST  .496E  01  .4965  ENGL  31.4A  01  .40.42  HIST  391  01  5261  Ml  67.4  01  53.41  

~-~--~ ---~-------~------~­
Friday, November 18, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and I NEED BC TIX find out how hundreds of students IBM Compatible For Sale!ll X 1665 4 BC MARRIED STUD TIX 4 SALE Quality Copies, Quickly 
NOTICES 
are already earning FREE TRIPS -386-20/25 Processor; 4 MB RAM 273-5945 THE COPY SHOP 
and LOTS OF CASH with America's -14" SVGA Color Monitor LaFortune Student Center Typing #1 Spring Break company! Choose -80 MB hard drive 12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM 631-COPY 287-4082 Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, -5 1/4" & 3 1/2" Floppy Drives BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND For Sale: 2 BC Ga's 
Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL -Hayes Optima 24 Modem STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME Call Markx1081 Professional Typing NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT -Citizen GSX-140 Color Printer -Bryan x1190 Dissertations, Term Papers TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or -3 button mouse I need BC stnt or GAs Hello Karin (again) Reasonable Rates (617)424-8222 Asking $1300 or best offer. Paul273-1364 277-7406 Call 634-4732, leave message. Need FSU, BC Ga's or Stud Tix call 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. Sean @ 234-2793 WANTED-rider to D.C. area for
PERSONAL

Resumes Lisa 273-6332 EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE T-break to help $gas & tolls. Leave 
WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, TICKETS Need one BOSTON COLLEGE Wed. noon, rtn. Sun. Call Jenny at Word Processing, term papers, etc. EUROPE. HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE STUDENT TICKET. Call Kerri at DIAMOND RING for sale 289-9633 259-7402 LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY MY FRIEND ... x2635 to hear my pathetic, helpless call Katy 273-6219 
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER Please sell me your BC GA's... voice, and the whiny, squeaky way I Anyone need a ride to the DC area SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE! x1653 answer the phone with, "HIIIIIII." NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB for Thanksgiving? I've got a spot. CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31 PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW ALUMNI REUNION CONCERT Call Steph at 273-6548. FOR SALE: FSU & BC TIXS. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­235-3394 The Weasels are coming .... Friday, November 19 CAREERS '94 Earn up to $2000+/month working DESPERATELY NEED at 8:30 PM in Stepan Center JOB FAIR CONFERENCES on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­NEED B.C. GA's GA's or STUD TIX PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW Tickets available NOW at 
panies. World travel (Hawaii, call Lisa at 634-4271 LaFortune Information Desk NEW YORK CITY -JAN. 4&5, 1994 Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). FSU Sunday, November 21st: General Admission $3 ATLANTA-JAN. 10, 1994 Summer and Full-Time employment & Students $2 WASHINGTON. D.C. -JANUARY available. No experience necessary. Need 2 GA's and 1 stud tix for BC BC The Day the music dies ... 
31, 1994 For more information call 1-206-Call Steve 273-6436 ­
634-0468 ext C5584 CALL SEAN @ 234-2793 Interested graduating students PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW drop off cover letters and resumes STILL LOOKING FOR MALE & Need BC stud tix or GA's. Will pay Need 2 GA's for BC. Rick 273-5347 to Career and Placement Services FEMALE MODELS TO PUT ON $40 for GA's or $30 for stud. x1562 Come support your Weasels in the Hey Badin ... by Monday, November 29. POSTERS & CALENDARS. FOR BILLY JOEL TX 4 SALE! interhall championships 
INFO., PLEASE CALL 271-1371. 1 BC stud for sale. $30 Jim x1562 $50 or BO by noon NOV 19 at 11 am on Sunday in the Stadium. Purple Power is going to crush you x2365 in the Stadium on SundayILOST & FOUND I Help! Need ride to Billy Joel on Fri. Need BC student tix! PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Will pay. Please call Greg: 4-3404 Call Sharon 282-2965 1 BC Stud. ticket for sale Love, PW LOST: a brown leather bag on Tim 237-1012 Firday 11/13 afternoon in Crowley Ride needed to CLEVELAND, Sunday, November21, 1993 Hall of Music. With wallet, ID card, OHIO for Thanksgiving. Will help HI WOZ! YOUR'E THE GREAT­credit card, checkbook and other with gas, tolls, driving, and offer BC STUD TIX For Sale 273-5817 The day the numbers change again. EST! important items in it. If found, please entertaining companionship. BO $$$$$$$$ contact 634-1290 Please call Caroline, x4702 HAVE TWO BC GA'S PW#1 
NEED GA'S & STUDENTS FOR BEST OFFER @ 3419 Two Howard females desperate for ALIEN X1305 BC. CALL LIZ 273-6588. $$$$$$$ I NEED aBC ticket, a ride to the Philly or Northern NJ 
preferably a female student ticket. area for Thanksgiving. Will share I WOULD GIVE MY RIGHT ARM Wanted ND-FSU Program NEED 1 STUDENT BC TIC. CALL NEED B.C. GA'S CALL BRIAN Please call Michelle at 4-2875. expenses and driving. Call Lara at TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY Call Kevin 288-3408 KATIE 3899. X3467 4-2484 NOTRE DAME WATCH WITHIN THE LAST THREE WEEKS. It is RIDERS/RIDE TO 4 BC GAs 4 SALE. CALL x4876 HAVE FAITH-WILL DEFEND gold with black leather bands, and CONNECTICUT 4 I NEED 5 BC GA'S, WILL PAY w/bestoffer CAREERS '94 has the interlocking NO in the mid­THANKSGIVING. CASH. CALL JEFF AT 273-4119. LAY APOLOGIST/EVANGELIST JOB FAIR CONFERENCES dle. Call Jim x3584 BARBARA X5329. Help! Need BC GAs or studs. WILL DEFEND THE CATHOLIC 
Call Dez: 4-3404 FAITH AGAINST ANYONE-STU­NEW YORK CITY-JAN 4&5, 1994 
DENT OR FACULTY. DEBATE ATLANTA-JAN 10, 1994 ­LOST: FOR RENT FORMAT ACCEPTABLE. WASHINGTON, D.C. -JAN 31, Camera, 2 lenses and flash in I Desperately Need 2 BC Stud Tix Desperately need one BC GA or (219) 272-9350. 1994 brown leather bag from home side­Clean, safe Apt. Near NO Kory X1606 stud. Call 4-2119 line after USC game 755 South Bend Ave furnished Interested graduating students Call Mike x1187. 1 bedrm-240, efficiency-215, BC GA's for sale &·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·& HELLO JULIA HELEN HAARER! drop off cover letters and resumes 
607 E. Corby-2bdrm $330 x3679 I'M SO GLAD THAT YOU COULD to Career and Placement Services 
519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat I need 2 .BC tickets... MAKE IT THIS WEEKEND! NO by the extended deadline of LOST Gold Heart locket outside drive by. call for appt. NEED 1 GA or STUDENT LOVES YOU! Monday, November 29, 1993. JACC after USC rally 10/22. deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 BOSTON COLLEGE TICKET Call Wade at 634-1743 EXTREME personal value. CALL DAVE at 1-4542 If found PLEASE call X2485 BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&· The N.D. Ultimate Frisbee team is Blue Sky ... You know what that 
ND/SMC EVENTS I DESPERATELY NEED A BC gearing up for the spring season means!!! 
{219) 291-7153 STUDENT TICKET FOR MY LIT­WE NEED BC GAs! tournaments against I.U., Ball St, Lost-Silver Eddie Bauer Swiss TLE BROTHER WHO WANTS TO Call X2732 or X3700 Purdue, Northwestern and others. If Army watch with leather band 6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS SEE THE GAME. PLEASE CALL you're interested in playing some Lost on Saturday at game or NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. ME @ X4020 (ERIC) NEED 3 MALE STUDENT OR GA good hard disc, come to the infor­potato house. If found call 1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL TICKETS FOR BC-ND GAME!!! mational meeting this Sunday at BUTT NAKED!! I II!I Andy at x1891 for reward NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 For Sale: 2 BC GA's PLEASE CALL-RICH X-4499 10:00 p.m. in the N.D. room, 2nd 
call X3926 with best offer floor LaFortune. All are welcome. 
Lodging -Riverfront -Private. BC stud tix for sale best offer by LOST -MISSING NO CLASS RING 257-9101. Friday Amy x4813 MARCH FOR LIFE WITH FULL NAME INSCRIPTED FRIDAY, January 21 ON IT... PURDUE ROOMMATE NEEDED BC Stu Tix 4 sale B.C. Tick., sen. 2735909, Jack DC TRIP ADOPTION: NO grad and wife, hap­WEEKEND 9/25 FROM SORIN Spr. Sem. Leave name, # ,and offer. If interested call NO Right to Life pily married for eight years, wish to HALL REWARD $1551F Trtle Crk Twnhs 271-1399 Marcelo_ X3811 631-9006 adopt a baby. We offer a warm, lov­RETURNED OR KNOW OF FOR SALE: 3 BC STUD TIXS ing home with kindness and WHEREABOUTS NO QUESTIONS Lodging -Riverfront -Private Best Offer 288-1806 patience from a full-time mom and 
-.

ASKED PLEASE CALL RYAN AT 257-9101 HEY Y'ALL! My brother ZEKE is CAREERS '94 devoted dad. Please call Wendy 
634-2290 driving a long way to watch us JOB FAIR CONFERENCES and Tim at 1-800-440-8588 anytime 2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES trounce BC. He needs a Stud. NEAR NO Ticket. Dan x4-1943 NEW YORK CITY-JAN 4&5, 1994 
Please, please, please return the AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR They came last year to see an ATLANTA-JAN 10, 1994 gold, viking helmet to the tradition­232-2595 Need 4 BC GA's Call312-883-9821 undefeated BC team kick Irish butt. WASHINGTON, D.C.-JAN 31, TOP 5 THINGS THAT HAVE rich baritone section of the march­Mark They were denied. 1994 GONE RIGHT WITH THE STAN ... , ing band. Call Tom at x1480 to South Haven Ml gift idea: beach This year, they return to see BC UM, FLANNER-SIEGFRIED PLAY: confess and arrange a meeting front condo, sleeps 6, fireplace, ski­FOR SALE: 1 BC GA. B/0 Call dash the hopes of the No. 1 Irish. Interested graduating students place. ing, weekly-monthly (219)234-2626 x2474 I laugh. drop off cover letters and resumes 5. Washington Hall is free ... uh, no 
But, being the great friend I am, I to Career and Placement Services 4. Original cast intact & healthy ... LOST: Black 35 mm Camera at want to get them tickets. That way, by the extended deadline of oops, no
FOR SALE
Cavanaugh/Knott Formal. FOR SALE: I can laugh in person. Monday, November 29, 1993. 3. Theodore's all set up ... nope Sentimental pictures on the film. •sTUDENT TICKET FOR BC • ••• 5 BC GA'S Needed ••• 2. No mistakes in program ... wrong Please return or my mother will kill Woodbridge condo for sale, near CALL 703-538-6657 Call 273-6548. So baby climb in, me!!!!ll 634-1283. Notre Dame, ideal for student. ASK FOR BRENDAN It's a town full of losers Well, the #1 thing that is right with 
Owner financing available $42,500. •sAME DAY SERVICE• Have pair of Boston College GA's. I'm pullin' outta here to win. the play takes care of them all .... SMITH ZEISZ CO. 272-5444. Kevin Leave Best offer at 273-4933. 1. Director extraordinaire Ann 
WANTED 
Zeisz. BC Stud. Tckt. Dear Suzy, Lillie!!!!! Best Offer I need 2 BC stud tix. Call Trout at These past ten weeks have 
RIDE WANTED Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP Alice 4-0505 X1480 A.S.A.P. been so special to me. You are Congrats on a super job, Ann! Friend wants to come for BC. From 27S scientific calculator, with the most beautiful thing that has We love ya! :) Pitt area. If you know someone with all documentation. Program NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ever happened to me. Psycho roommies #1-3 and room, she is willing to help with gas formulas and love life. HP DeskJet LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221-+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ I'm Crazy For You. neighbors. 
-

or driving. Call Nathan at x-3022. printer (for IBM). Print in the 6183. Love Rex privacy of your own room. FOR SALE 
3 girls need a ride to north Call Rolando at 631-4541. For Sale: GA's for all games. 277-BCGA'S suburban Chicago on Tuesday for 1659. BEST OFFER Adoption: the placement of your Thanksgiving. Pay all expenses $ BAHAMA-CRUISE John 277-4953 child may be the most precious gift DEAR Megan, 
Call 284-5078 5 Days 4 niles $288/couple you could make. NO alum wants to By tomorrow, you will have Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri Need BC Tickets! +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ be mom through your gift. officially put up with me for a whole 1 0-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext. 607 x2846 Professional couple, country home, year. Something to be proud of! 
......_ 

Wanted: Roommate(s) B.C. STUD FOR SALE, CALL with lots of love and faith. Strictly I'm crazy for you. for 94-95 yr. @ C. Point, 94 SPRING BREAK TRIPS REA­JASON 237-9702. legal. Call Tricia and Jim 
H. Village,?. Doug 4-3895 SONABLE PRICES TO JAMAICA, I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON 1-800-820-1139. Happy Anniversaryll PADRE, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 FLORIDA!!! Te quiero muchisimo, CALL CHRIS@ (219) 289-2767 NEED 4 BC GAS CALL PAT X1689 NEED BC GAs 634 2193 Eric 
Toke o First Aid doss with the American Red Cross. We'll teach you what you need to know to save someone you love ...lrom 

American+
choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergendes. Red Cross Coli your chapter of the American Red 
• Cross today. And know it oil. 
L L 



"There are nearly 10, 000 homeless shelters andfacilities in the country, but this is among the best. " 
-Fred Karnas, executive director National Coalition for the Homeless 
-
Lou Holtz, head football coach at the University ofNotre Dame, requests your presence at the third annual 
Centerfor the Homeless Christmas Luncheon 

Wednesday, December 1, 1993 11 :30 a.m. -1 :00 p.m. South Bend Century Center 
• Yes, I plan to join Coach Holtz December 1 in support of Michiana's homeless. Please reserve: _ tables of eight at $240 per table seats at $30 per reservation 
• I am am unable to attend the December 1 luncheon, but please accept my holliday gift of $ to the Center for the Homeless 
Please make checks payable to: The Center for the Homeless, Inc. (RSVP by Nov. 24, 1993) Name Contributions to the Center Address for the Homeless are folly tax Company Name deductible. ($20 ofeach $30 City_----:--_ State_ Zip reservation is deductible.) Phone ( )____ 
Friday, November 19, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Reggie Miller's streak comes to an end 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Otis Thorpe scored 16 of his season-high 24 points in the third quarter and grabbed 11 rebounds to power the un­beaten Houston Rockets to their eighth win, a 99-83 win over the Indiana Pacers Thursday night. 
Houston's 8-0 start matches its franchise record, set in the 1984-85 season. The NBA's leading defensive team, the Rockets have yet to allow 100 points in a game. 
Akeem Olajuwon added 19 points, 10 rebounds and five blocked shots, and he moved into third place in blocks with 2,476 on the all-time list. 
Pacers guard Reggie Miller did not dress because of a sprained left ankle. Although his streak of 345 straight starts ended, he still figured in the box score. He got a technical foul with 1:05 to play and was ejected. 
His ejection came one minute after Pacers coach Larry Brown got two technicals and an ejec­tion. 
The Pacers also were without forward Derrick McKey, who went on the injured list Thurs­day with a strained right ham­string. 
The Rockets, owners of the NBA's best record, looked like they would blow the Pacers off the floor. They raced to a 14-0 lead in the opening 4:45, while the Pacers were missing their first 11 shots from the field. In­diana didn't get its first score until the 6:57 mark, when Dale Davis, who had 16 points and 10 rebounds, scored on a short jumper. 
But the Pacers got back into the game by hitting six straight shots and running off 10 points in a row and trailed by just nine at the quarter, 27-1. 
They cut further into the lead in the second period as the 

~ 

Main & Jeffenon 
Hours 

Mon-Sat 11 a.m.-llp.m. Not a Franchise• A Family Sun 4-9 p.m. Owned Business 
257 .-1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call 273 --2EAT 
$ 2 offlarge pizza with Student ID 
Rockets bench came up empty on offense. The Rockets' re­serves managed just one point in the second quarter, and that came on a free throw by Scott Brooks when Indiana was whis­tled for illegal defense and a technical foul. 
The Pacers held the Rockets to 17 points in the quarter, their best defensive quarter of the season. 
The Pacers actually regained the lead on three occasions in the third quarter, leading for the last time at 60-59 with 5:20 left when Pooh Richardson, their top scorer with 18, hit a jumper. 
But Thorpe put Houston in front with a three-point play and later broke a 64-64 tie with a transition score at the 3:30 mark, igniting an 8-0 run. The Pacers never led again as the Rockets pulled away. 
Cedric Maxwell added 18 points for Houston, including four of seven on 3-pointers. 
The Pacers shot just 39 per­cent from the floor and 40.9 percent -9 of 22 -from the free throw line, and scored only 14 points in the final quarter, a season low. Houston shot 50 percent from the field. 
Trail Blazers 120 Bulls 98 
Rod Strickland had nine points and six assists during a second-quarter offensive explo­sion, and the Portland Trail Blazers went on to rout Chicago 120-98 Thursday night, their most one-sided victory ever over the Bulls. 
The Blazers shot 68 percent from the field and outscored the Bulls 35-15 in the second quarter to take a 64-36 half­time lead. Portland led by as many as 37 points in the third quarter and 36 in the fourth. 
Clifford Robinson, starting in place of Harvey Grant, who was 

Photo courtesy of the Indiana Pacers Reggie Miller's consecutive games started streak came to an end Thursday, but he still managed to get a technical foul. 
CHANNEL 46 SPORTS 
presents ... 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL DOUBLEHEADER 
Notre Dame vs. Florida State Sat. Morning 8:30 a.m. --10:30 a.m. 
Notre Dame vs. Boston College Sat. Night 11:30 p.m. --1:30 a.m. 
Set your VCRs and cherish the memories forever 
:~··. 

Exclusively on 46-J'IHM 
·-:x.®t.@i:: ...,.;:::;::;;:..:::::·......•.),·~· 

ill, led the Blazers with 21 points in less than three quar­ters before sitting down for the rest of the night. Clyde Drexler added 19 points and Strickland had 14 points and nine assists for Portland, which outre­bounded Chicago 59-38. 
Steve Kerr scored 16 points and Horace Grant 14 for the Bulls, whose previous biggest loss to Portland was by 16 points on Feb. 8, 1983. 
Chicago committed 10 turnovers in the second period and 14 in the first half, when Portland outscored the Bulls on fastbreak points 28-2. The Blazers scored 16 points off Chicago turnovers in the first two quarters, compared with two for the Bulls. 
liM f3UR.Totl~ 
HIE NlGltTM!.RE J}U"OllE(ilR!i['M~
lii0 
1 :00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 
THETHRE 
MUSKETEERS 
Charlie Sheen ~ 
2:00, 4:30, 7:15, 9:45 

Portland used a 21-3 run to take a 56-29 lead on Robinson's inside basket with 4:08 left in the half. 
Four Portland players were in double figures by halftime, led by Robinson's 15 points. Strickland added 12 on 5-for-6 shooting, mostly from long range, while Drexler and Porter had 10 apiece. 
The Bulls, who made 31 per­cent of their shots in their dis­astrous second quarter, were playing the second of seven games on the road in 10 days. 
The defending NBA champi­ons are not only without there­tired Michael Jordan. Scottie Pippen, John Paxson and Scott Williams also are sidelined with injuries. 
E'nestRidEs 
EMS~~~L ® Main
MOVIE Ge 
~HORT ~ MR. BilL® 
1:15, 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, 9:15. 
gz.BeverlyHillbillies ~ 
2:00, 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 

Buffalo hopes to rebound from Monday night massacre 
Associa1ed Press 
ORCHARD PAHK, N.Y. 
Wakeup call is the commonly used term. Buffalo Bills center Kent llull had a less gentle de­scription. 
"It's a head-slapper," said Ilull. referring to Buffalo's 23-0 mauling at the hands of the Pittsburgh Steelers last Monday night. 
The Bills (7 -2) have to hope the cobwebs have cleared-lit­erally and figuratively -from the Pittsburgh beating as they play host to the Indianapolis Colts (3-6) Sunday. 
The Steelers punished Buf­falo, giving Jim Kelly and Don Beebe concussions and break­ing a bone in Andre Heed's wrist. All three are expected to play against the Colts. 
The knockout-shutout got the Bills' attention, Hull said. 
"It's not that you get overcon­fident," he said. "It's just that sometimes I think you get lazy mentally about what it took to get where you are. Every once in a while, you get one of those slapped on you and you realize what you have to do to get bet­ter." 
The first priority Bills coach Marv Levy has to deal with is Buffalo's abysmal third-down record on offense and defense. 
Offensively, Buffalo went 2­
SPORTS BRIEFS 
for-11 on third down against the Steelers. "Third downs killed us," Kelly said. "We were pitiful and we have to get better in that phase of the game." 
The news is worse on de­fense. The Bills did a good job checking the Steelers -until third down. Pittsburgh con­verted 10 of 18 attempts, an impressive 56 percent. For the season, Buffalo's defense is al­lowing third-down conversions at a league-leading 48.2 per­cent. 
The Bills still lead the league with 29 takeaways, but their last two opponents, the Steelers and the Patriots, have averaged 200 rushing yards against Buf­falo. 
That means rookie Roosevelt Potts, beginning to emerge as Indianapolis' go-to runner, should get the ball a lot. 
"I would venture to say that the Indianapolis Colts will run Potts left, run Potts right and run Potts until we can prove we can stop him," Buffalo defen­sive end Phil Hansen said. "That's what I'd do." 
Indianapolis hasn't had much success running. In fact, the Colts haven't had much sus­tained success doing anything this season, according to tackle Will Wolford. 
"It's been a major disap­pointment," said Wolford, a fix­ture on Buffalo's offensive line before the Colts lured him away with a rich free agent contract in the offseason. 

"I was really thinking we'd be 6-3 at this point instead of 3-6," he said. "It's frustrating and there's not a lot of happy peo­ple around here." 
BEARS VS. CHIEFS 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Earlier in the season, Kansas City's offense had a magical quality. Then it disappeared. 
It has reappeared enough for the Chiefs (7-2) to enjoy a two­game lead in the AFC West and feel much better about Dave Krieg's ability to keep every­thing afloat while Joe Mon­tana's irksome hamstring heals. 
Last week in Los Angeles, the Raiders took a 17-7 halftime lead before Krieg's three touch­down passes led a 24-3 second­half blitz giving the Chiefs a season sweep of their AFC West rivals. 
It was a similar second-half surge that carried the Chiefs to a 23-16 victory over Green Bay the week before in Krieg's first start since Montana reinjured his hamstring. 
But with the Chicago Bears' powerful defense coming to town Sunday, ditching the late­arriving offense would be wise. 
"We've been coming out and missing third downs by a mat­ter of a foot," said coach Marty Schottenheimer. "You have to convert those." 
Schottenheimer and offensive coordinator Paul Hackett obvi­ously have been doing lots of game plan rearranging during hurried halftime talks. 
"It's to determine what ex­actly has taken place in the first half and then communicating those ideas to the players," Schottenheimer said. "But it really boils down in the final analysis to players wanting to go out and do the job, executing and relying on fundamentals. I have always felt it is very im­portant to coach throughout the ballgame. Anybody can sit down on Monday and look at the video." 
Struggling the first two quar­ters to find their offensive rhythm could happen because the Chiefs still are learning their new 49ers-style offense. 
Finding that rhythm in the sec­ond half is a good sign the lessons are being learned. 
Wide receiver Willie Davis be­lieves Krieg is especially getting more comfortable. 
"The important person is get­ting a feel for it," said Davis, who hauled in Krieg's 66-yard scoring pass at Los Angeles. "That's Dave. I know how hard it is for the quarterback to get into this offense, because this offense is very difficult for a quarterback. 
"You have four or five re­ceivers going out, you have to know where each one is going," he said. 
"It was tough for a while. Now it's finally coming to him where everybody's going to be. The public's going to see that he's going to be great now." 
''I'm encouraged the offense is starting to come together," Schottenheimer said. 
Ultimate Frisbee is seeking anyone who would like to play competitively this spring. If interested, come to the Notre Dame Ultimate Club's informa­tional meeting Sunday Nov. 21 at 10:00 in the N.D. room, sec­ond floor of LaFortune. No experience necessary. 
Introducing Irish Lacrosse Team: an organization for non­varsity athletes. Informational meeting Mon. Nov. 22 at 7:30 
p.m. in Grace Hall first floor pit. Call Mike at x1651 
Mixed Doubles Tennis Mixer will be held November 22, 9 pm at the Eck pavilion. Anyone interested should sign up by Monday at noon in the Rec Sports office. Sign up individually and you will be paired up. There is a $1 court fee. Call Hec Sporl'i office with questions at 631-6100. 

attention 
SOPHOMORES I 
• Paid sun~n~e• Internships 
available in the field of employee benefits. Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with area or national firms during the two summers before graduation. Also attend required educational seminars in Chicago or Milwaukee during the summer and academic year. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. 
Call Ronael/e Carlson, Midwest Regional Director, 
(708) 986-5539 for more information. 
The International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans is a nonprofit educational association. 
I.F. INTERNS Intemationallbundation ~ 
OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
W' 


EA"PRESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-LaFortune Studtnt Ctnttr-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00am-9:00pm Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 

(lMPUSMINISTRY 

A New Series for Graduate Students 

THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 

Visit the uSATELLITE SJIOP'• at the JACC 
Open berore, during & aJter the game 
The Golf Shop at Notre Dame Located just off 31 N. ncar WNDU "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial NoLre Dame gifts for every occasion (219) 631-6425 

Presenting 
Dr. Dominic Vachon 
Discussing 
HowToCope With Anxiety And Stress 
• 
Concerned about taking first semester finals 

• 
Stressed about finding summer employment in today's job market 

• 
Worried about completing last minute projects and papers 


Dr. Vachon will discuss the skills necessary to cope with anxiety and stress as well as address your specific issues and questions. 
DATE: SUNDAY,NOVEMBER21 TIME: 7:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. LOCATION: Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Community Center 
Additional Presentations Next Semester. 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer, O'Hara-Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 
-------~­

-~~--l 
Friday, November 19, 1993 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
ity. Senior captain Matt Osiecki, who scored a point in every Irish goal this past week­end, and fellow blue-liners must keep LSSU's offense in check to give Notre Dame a legitimate chance of stealing some points on the road this weekend. 
Even with a reliable defense, the offense must start to pro­duce against the Lakers. Someone must step up to take some of the burden from sopho­more center Jamie Ling, the team's lscoring leader. Last weekend, Osiecki did the job, now it's someone else's turn. Schafer is confident someone will emerge. 
"We need to play really well this weekend," said Schafer. "We'll concentrate on playing well, then we'll look at the scoreboard. We're planning to take a game or two." 

S~l9et ~ lOY. ~etWLI 
1fle ~ 'Paett ~, ~~, S~, ~~,s~ (tM ~ta~~~d«t~a~t4/atWt), ,t~, 
ad, ntal«f fflfJ!te, 
WE ALSO CARRY POLISHES, CDSMEI'Ia>, :E:LECI'RICAL APPLIANCE!> AND MUCH OORE! Full Service Salon and Nail Services also Available! 
*Card is good for one year 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

An official restrains Irish coach John Macleod (left) after he received a technical foul in the first half of 
Thursday's game. 
Friday & Saturday 7 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. Carrol Auditorium 
· Saint Mary's College Admission $2 


.. ALIVE 
The triumph of the human spirit. 
~t!l~' -....t.:.'WI100dsa-<
rDl -.........................--··~·····--·····-·--••~,.... ,_..... ~ 
Happy "@1@~" Birthday 
IDJwJ)J@llil 
19 on the 19th 
Love, Mom&Dad Teensie & Uncle 
~ECRET 
6[e's !]]islro & ~ 5ta Q~~.....: 
c :.o,.........,
c)V'Q, Fine dining at moderate prices Q ~ Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ 
Theatre Works Playhouse -upstairs at the Bistro 

Ask about catering 257-0400 
The Department of Music Presents 

%e 9\{9tre 1Jame Cfwrafe 
.9lle~anaer '13facfifg, airector with Me{issa Jg~emouj, 01Jian 
ma Fall Concert 
Hail St. Cecilia: 
German Choral Works from Lassus to Bruckner 

a capella and accompanied works by Lassus, J.S. Bach, Mozart. Haydn, Schubert, Brahms, and Bruckner 
Monday, November 22, 8:00p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The concert is free and open to the public 


273-5264 ~ 5265 
page 19 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 
MacLeod received a technical foul for his efforts, but said that he felt the officials called a bet­ter game after his outburst. 
"We saw (Samara throw el­bows) on film and we warned our players about it," MacLeod said. "Somebody had to step up and protect our players." 
Williams strapped the Irish on his back early in the second half, converting a three-point play with 12 minutes remain­ing to give the Irish their first lead of the half. 
He scored just four more points in the game, turning the reins over to his supporting cast that iced the win with solid play down the stretch. 
Dmitry Donskov scored 15 of his 17 points in the second half to keep Samara close, includ­ing some clutch free throws in the fmal minutes. 
Igor Grachev led Samara with 19 points. 
"We've got a game under our belt and that's good," MacLeod said. "There were some bright spots." 
54 Holes 
.of Indoor 

M1n1ature Golf 
Over 100 Video Games! 
Open 7 Days a week 

Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. Sunday 1 p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Counter. Shopping Center 
on Mckinley in MishaWaka 

254-0100 

Use Your Student Discount ~ard! 
.... 
_-.. 

Islanders' scoring spree continues against Canadiens 
Associated Press 
HAMILTON, Ontario Pierre Turgeon led the New York Islanders on a scoring spree for the second straight day, getting two goals and set­ting up another Thursday night in a 5-1 win over the Montreal Canadiens. 
Turgeon had three goals and an assist in Wednesday's 8-1 rout in Ottawa. Playing in Hamilton, Turgeon and the Islanders again broke loose. 
Keith Acton, Steve Thomas and Benoit Hogue also scored for the Islanders. Gary Leeman was the only Montreal player to put the puck past Ron Hextall. 
Turgeon scored the only goal of the first period, connecting at 1:49. Leeman tied it at 1 at 

.....__ 6:24 of the second period. It was only the second goal of the season for a former 50-goal scorer who has been relegated to fringe duty. Turgeon made it 2-1 at 17:33 of the second period with his 10th goal of the season. He scored on a power play after Montreal was caught with too many men on the ice. New York moved ahead 3-1 on Acton's first goal of the sea­son 2:49 into the third period. Power-play goals by Thomas at 
9:15 and Hogue at 10:41 capped the scoring. Thomas got his 11th goal on a tap-in of a superb cross-crease pass from Turgeon and Hogue cut around the net behind defenseman Peter Popovic. 
Devils 5, Senators 2 
OTTAWA Stephane Richer, Tom Chorske and Alexander Semak scored goals in the third period and the New Jersey Devils beat Ottawa. 
The Devils tied a franchise record with their fourth straight road win. New Jersey has won six of seven overall. 
Richer put the Devils ahead 3­2 at 4:11 of the third period after a defensive breakdown behind the Ottawa net. Richer emerged with the puck and slipped it between the pads of goaltender Craig Billington for his sixth goal of the season. 
Bruins 3, Sharks 1 
BOSTON Glen Murray scored his first two goals of the season and the Boston Bruins won their fifth straight game, beating San Jose. 
Sergei Zholtok added his first NHL goal for the Bruins, who are undefeated in their last seven games. Pat Falloon scored for San Jose, which had 

• 
Lowest Airfares Anywhere 

• 
Rallpasses Issued On-The-Spot 

• 
Language Programs 

• 
Hostel Cards 

• 
Travel Guidebooks and Gear 

• 
Expert Travel Advice 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call for a FREE copy of Student Travels magazine 
been trying to tie a team record by extending its undefeated streak to four games. 
John Blue, starting for the first time since Nov. 2, stopped 27 shots for the Bruins. Boston has held 11 of its last 12 oppo­nents to three goals or less. 
Penguins 3, Capitals 2 
PITTSBURGH Goalie Tom Barrasso recorded his 250th NHL victory in lead­ing the Pittsburgh Penguins past the Washington Capitals. 
Barrasso is 250-185-58 and ranks third in wins among active goaltenders. He has 126 wins with Pittsburgh, a club record. He made 32 saves against Washington. 
Kjell Samuelsson put the Penguins ahead 2-1 with a goal late in the second period. The Capitals lost their third in a row following a six-game winning streak. 
Blackhawks 3, Panthers 2 
MIAMI Michel Goulet scored the go­ahead goal with 7:56 left in the third period as the Chicago Blackhawks beat Florida for their sixth straight victory. 
Chicago, which started an eight-game road trip, hasn't lost since Oct. 31, when Philadelphia beat the Blackhawks 9-6. The game, again involving replacement referees, had two fights, one that led to the ejection of two players. 
Flyers 6, Whalers 3 
PHILADELPHIA Mark Recchi scored two goals and assisted on another in a game prolonged by 35 penal­ties. 
Philadelphia, the NHL's top­scoring team, stopped a three­game losing streak with just its second victory in seven game (2-5). Hartford has lost six straight on the road. 
Recchi collected his own rebound and knocked the puck by goaltender Mario Gosselin at 
16:17 of the second period to put Philadelphia ahead 5-3. He scored his second goal at 2:22 of the third, taking a pass across the slot from Josef Beranek that put backup Mike Lenarduzzi out of position. 
Maple Leafs 3, Kings 2 
INGLEWOOD, Calif Wendel Clark scored his 
'A Great Way to get together with Friends or spend a Romantic Evening with Someone Special" 
WHAT KIND OF FONDUE DO WE OFFER'! 
ch.:-csc•hccf•,·h ickcn ~cal'• >oJ•vrgctahle• Flannng ,·h· wolatc 


beat the Los Angeles Kings 3-2 on Wednesday night to regain the overall lead in the NHL with 32 points. 
Mike Krushelnyski scored his third goal of the season on a power-play at 2:42 of the third period to tie the game 2-2 and set up John Cullen's game-win­ner with 10:24 left with a soft centering pass. 
John Druce scored on Los Angeles' first shot on goal at 
2:07 of the first period and Jari Kurri made it 2-0 at 3:58 of the secoud with a 50-foot slap shot. Wayne Gretzky was credited with an assist on Kurri's goal.. 
Dalloway's Coffeehouse 
at St. Mary's 
is proud to present LIVE from CHICAGO 

with special guests Notre Dame's 
Sleight of Hand 
Saturday, November 20, 8:30p.m. 
ll~~in §ce@um auvt>Y Ammw
zotll (J 
LOve, Wl@Ili!il ~ JD)cmcdl 

LAFAYETTE SouARE 
T 0 W N H 0~ E S 
"Luxury Living at Affordable Rates. " 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
FuLLY EQUIPPED KITCHENS 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYs CAMPUSES 


"Where tenants are always treated as friends!" 
Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

The Saint Mary's swim will splash into action th!s weekend in Indianapolis at the Indiana University/Purdue University of Indiana 
Invitational. 
"I think 
Transylvania, Wabash and Wheaton. 
"I'm excited that we are finally going to get in the water," said coach Greg Janson. "Six weeks is a long time to practice without a meet." 
Although set back by October break, the Belles are prepared for the invitational, Janson said. 
"A lot of people didn't have access to a pool and didn't work as hard as they should have over break," said co-cap­tain Jennifer Gustafson. "But everyone has been giving 100 have a are lacking 
The Belles will compet better this against several small colleg ustafson including DePauw, Asbian much 
hers. so 
The Belles swam at the invitational last year,}tccord­ing to Janson. '"·' 
"They did not place well overall," he said, "hut there were some good fmUviqual
swims." · ··.·· 
"This competition is good our level," Gustafson s "There is nobody thai We out of the water. but uuJuuttv blows us out either." "We're all excited to see how we'll perform," said co-captain Ellen Kramer. "The team has really come together both mentally and 
Volleyball 
continued from page 22 
tion from an ankle InJury. Stark, who has been the team's emotional catalyst for much of the season, leads the MCC in individual block average with 
1.27 per game and is third in hitting percentage at .278. She is expected to be 100% for the tournament. 
Stark's recovery comes as a mixed blessing for the Irish, as her return is coupled with the loss of another senior middle blocker, co-captain Julie Harris. Harris who leads the MCC in hitting percentage at .317 and is second to Stark in block average with 1.17 per game, broke a finger in last weekend's matches and will miss the MCC competition. She is expected back later in the season. 
Notre Dame has numerous players up for conference awards this weekend. Junior outside hitter Christy Peters is almost a lock for MCC player of the year, ranking second in average digs and third in kill average while thoroughly domi­nating conference play. Stark, 

Harris, and senior setter and co-captain Janelle Karlan look to join Peters for conference, regional, and potentially all­American honors. Freshman Jenny Birkner has the inside track for newcomer of the year, while classmate Kristina Ervin is bidding to join her on the all­newcomer team. 
With so many awards and seedings at stake, the Irish must not overlook the oppo­nents this weekend. Butler took the Irish to four games in their match earlier this year and stayed close throughout, falling 17-15, 15-13, 9-15, 15­
1. The Irish were also chal­lenged by a spirited Loyola squad before dismissing the Ramblers 16-14, 15-5, 15-4. 
However, barring a major collapse, the Irish should easily take the conference champi­onship, as the team has remained too focused on the goal of hosting an NCAA game to ruin that chance at this point in the year. The Irish must also be encouraged that their hitting duo of Peters and Stark have stepped up their play against MCC opponents, routinely lead­ing the team in both kills and digs. 

Following this weekend's tournament, the Irish will have a week to prepare for their stiffest competition of the sea­son, as they will travel to Stockton, Ca. to play No. 10 Pacific on their home court in the Banker's Classic. The Irish will then play either No. 1 UCLA or No. 5 BYU. The NCAA tournament will announce its pairings November 28. 
X-Country 
continued from page 24 
regarding a more aggressive start," said men's coach Joe Piane. "I felt that this strategy worked out well for us, and we certainly don't need to head out any stronger at the National Championships." 
"The key to success at the NCAA tournament is for us to stay relaxed," said women's coach Tim Connelly. 
"Our team is capable of plac­ing high -a top 10 finish for our team is not an unrealistic 
goaL A lot of great teams out there will fold under pressure, so if we can stay relaxed and run our best we should meet with success." 
1. Marsha K's
1 Crafts & Balloons 
~ $!"'off any Balloon Bouquet 
Great.balloon boUlJ.uets for SYR/Formals 
North Village Mall 273..1570 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

..... _ 
o 
Used books bought and sold 

o 
25 Categories of Books 

o 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

o 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

o 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219] 232-8444 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE
OFOOHIP? 
A workshop for couples m a senous relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future­including the possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 5 1:00 -5:00 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE tS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT•.. REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY DECEMBER 3 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry Office: 
Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Call 631-5242 for more information 
~-----~--------­

SMC hoops opens at Kalatnazoo Invite 
By ANNE HERRMAN Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team tips otT their season this weekend at the Kalamazoo College Invitational. 
The Belles face Indiana Wesleyan for the first time ever in game one of the tour­nament. 
Indiana Wesleyan is a "nice size team both in size and experience," said Belles' coach Marvin Wood. 
With a clean record, the Belles don't know what to expect. 
"We will find out a little about the areas we need to work on," said Wood, "like our strengths and our key players." 
In this weekend's tourna­

With only twelve women on the team, each will contribute this weekend. "Returning sophomore Jennie Taubbenheim will no doubt be a key individual," com­mented Wood, "And several others could blossom." 
This weekend's tournament will be several freshmen play­ers' first collegiate tourna­ment. 
"Freshmen Katie Lalli, Sara Kopperud, and Cate Kozacik sparkled at a few practices," said Wood. 
Along with · Indiana Wesleyan, the Belles' sched· ule consists of several other fl.l'st-time opponents including Adrian College, Carthage College, and Franklin College. Kalamazoo College, the host ot the tournament and possi­
ment Wood hopes to see the ble second-round opponent, team come together and was upset by the Belles last demonstrate quickness and season. an effective defense. "We're taking one game at 
"Every practice we are a time, " Wood said. "In the learning to flow with our scrimmage against Bethel offense," stated senior Mollie earlier this week, the team Wheeler. "It's difficult to take demonstrated surprising individuals of multiple back­quickness and aggressive­grounds and get them to play ness. We hope to continue an as one team In just two weeks effective defense." time." 
r 
I 50¢ OFF 
1 

Shot of Espresso! 
I 
CAMPUS $HOPPES 1831 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 441637

IOffer expires 11/26/93 .Limit one coupon per custs:!!~ BEND. INDIANA 
1 
I 
Volleyball favored in MCCs 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Editor 
Although the tournament is two weeks away, the road to the NCAAs starts this weekend for the No. 18 Notre Dame vol­leyball team, when it looks to secure an automatic bid by winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment in Evansville. 
The Irish enter the tourna­ment as the number one seed and are heavy favorites to sweep for the third consecutive year. Under head coach Debbie Brown, the Irish have never lost to an MCC foe. 
Notre Dame takes to the road on a six match winning streak during which the Irish have dropped only one game. However, the Irish will be with­out Brown for the trip, as she and her husband Dennis are expecting their first child in two weeks. Assistant coach Steve Schlick, who has coached with Brown for five years and recently led the Irish to victo­ries over LaSalle and Pittsburgh, will take over the helm. 
Having earned a first round bye, Notre Dame will play its first match Saturday night at 8 pm against the winner of the Xavier-Evansville quarterfinal. The finals will be held on Sunday at 2 pm, with the Irish likely to face B u tier, should they advance. 
The Irish romped through the regular season with a 5-0 con­ference record and were never seriously challenged. However, Schlick warned that his squad could not afford to be over-con­fidant. 
"Xavier, Loyola, and Butler are all fairly evenly matched, and all three are capable of giv­ing us a competitive match," he explained. "Still, we don't look on (the tournament) as pres­sure but as an opportunity to qualify for the NCAAs." 
The Irish have more at stake than just qualifying, however. The MCC tournament will be the last time the Irish face regional rivals, and will there­fore be the last chance they have to relinquish their No. 1 regional ranking. This ranking could have important implica­tions when the NCAA announces first round byes and site locations. 
"If we were to lose a match, it would hurt our ranking," com­mented Schlick. "However, if we win I would expect to main­tain the seeding." 
The Irish will get a lift towards the goal of hosting a home match in the NCAAs as senior middle blocker Molly Stark continues her rehabilita­
see VOLLEYBALL I page 21 
Need the Perfect Gift Idea or Getaway? May we suex3e8l, 

The Beiger Mansion Inn~ fables Gallery 
Get away or get a gift certificate. Stay in one ofour luxury rooms, lunch in our tearoom, enjoy afabulous Saturday night dinner in our State dining room, or select a work ofart from Fables Gallery. Gift certificates available in any dollar amou11t. Plan naw for a birthday, an anniversary, honeymoon, or just to say "I Love you." 
LUNCHEON DINNER Tuesday thru Saturday Saturday evenittgs ottly 11:00 AM.-2:00P.M. 6:00P.M. -9:00 P.M. 
(219) 256-0365 • 317 Lincoln Way East • Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
The Works Still The Place for Pasta 


-------------------.1 
Friday, November 19, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
•t:> ~ou FoNt:> "'SATH"ROO(Y\? I  A  l)lt:> TKI:."\ G•VE ~ov A I-IA"5'S.l-E?  ,Wto.l-L 1 ~o>J !<Now, f\lE.VER SIT ON AAN6E. ToiLET" Se.AT:S. :: ;·  WELL \-1 .."\­A-r LEA~T ~.... Four<o A  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30Ancrent 62 La -tarprts, krngdom rn Calif.
1 Sepulcher 
34 Caper 63 Ten cents 5 Actress Moore 
64 Key personnel 9 Ford's far lure group 
36 U.S humorrst 
37 Make eyes (at) 

14 To the sheltered 65 Prevarrcator srde 
38 A locale rn 20 66 Sarnt of sarlors Across

15 Astronaut 67 Veteran golf pro Shepard 
42ln re 

68 Soprano Eames 16 Mountarn rrdge 
43 Fam. member 

&9 Mrdday 17 Close by 44Ciumsy 18 Rodents 45 Brrtrsh gun 
DOWN 19 Actor Novarro 46Ard 
1 Sharp flavor 20 Selznrck eprc 49 Haggard novel 
2 Bread spread 23 Quaker's "you" so Corrrda cheer 
3lntend 24 "Twrlight Zone" 51 Port of Okrnawa 
4 French cap wrrter Serlrng 53 A "vrllarn" in 20 
5 Conn. town 25 Ballet step Across 
6 Cheers greatly 28lnJect 61 Be of use to 
7 School sub). aA good way to "take rt" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Type of seal 
----...--.-....--.,.-, 1o Attract -=-+=,:+=~E-1 11 Brg rrg, for short ~~~~ 12 English school 

~~::+::ioi..t-7-EHr:::-tliilllilil 13 Afford 
31 Curved 48 Vast, and' tract 55 Stow cargo temporarrly moldings 50 Lubrrcated 56 Italian corn 
-...'-+'-+-1 21 What one? 
32 Frrst Hebrew 52 Forest in "As 57 Tailored 
~=+~:;..t 22 Golf-course letter You Like It" sa Venus de­features 33 Actress Davrs 53 G.l. Janes 59 Gunner's need, 
~=+:-+::~+.=;-~ 25 Actress from 
54 Physrologist for short 
35lmage

Greece Pavlov 60 Advertisrng sign 
39 Refrarn phrase 40 Look like 

....,._"'-+-~_,..~ 26 "-of robrns 
~~.:..:+::+.::+:~~+:::-HEi~':-t:::+.::-1 27 Aver 41 Type of church Answers to any three clues in this donatron
-7+:+.=+::-1 29 Chrnese puzzle are avarlable by touch-tone werghts 47 Part of a trouser phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each ..;;...L..;...L..:...L-'-' 30 Poet's AM. leg minute) . 

-

SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, November 19, 1993 
Notre Dame overcomes sloppy first half for exhibition victory 
By JASON KELLY Freshmen centers Marcus "We were like a truck going Associate Sports Editor Hughes and Matt Gotsch were a downhill out of control (in the presence in the middle that was first halO," MacLeod said. "We Welcome to the second sea­missing last season. had eight assists and 15 son of the Monty Williams Hughes collected 14 points turnovers. Those columns have Show. and six rebounds and Gotsch to be reversed before we can 
There are a few more guests added four points and four re­make strides toward being a this time, but it is questionable bounds before fouling out after good team." if it can be more successful playing just nine minutes. While struggled at times of­than the first. "I thought Hughes played an fensively, but his tenacious de­
Tuesday's 85-78 exhibition outstanding game," MacLeod fensive pressure kept the much win over Samara Hussia in said. "Gotsch also came in and bigger Samara offense out of front of 9,515 fans at the Joyce did some good things. We got a sync. That pressure helped Center provided few answers. lot of people involved and that's force Samara into 26 turnovers 
It wasn't until decided until very encourging." and forced Whitll to leave the Hyan Hoover hit four consecu­Notre Dame jumped out to a game with eight minutes re­tive free throws in the final 30 6-2 lead after a crowd-pleasing maining after collecting his fifth seconds to secure a shaky Irish alley-oop pass from freshman foul. win. point guard Admore White to "It was a strange feeling play­
"It was a typical first game," Williams. ing my first game at the college Notre Dame coach John Then the first-game jitters level," White said. "I have to MacLeod said. "We threw it took over. Samara scored 13 work on slowing down and run­away and banged into each straight points to take the lead, ning the offense, but if I keep other too much, but we got con­which it held for much of the listenting to Coach MacLeod I'll tributions from a lot of different first half. be alright." people at key times." Turnovers and quick shots The officials seemed to listen 
Williams made the biggest kept the Irish from generating to MacLeod, who stormed on to contribution, scoring 19 of his much offense in the first 20 the court after what he thought game-high 30 points in the sec­minutes. was a flagrant elbow thrown at ond half to help the Irish over­White finished his first college senior Brooks Boyer. come a 35-28 halftime deficit. game with two assists and four He fumed at the officials who 
But he had a little more help turnovers, numbers indicative called a foul on Boyer. than he was used to a year ago. of the entire Irish team. 
see HOOPS I page 19 

Irish hockey looks to ice Lakers 

By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
This is what the COlA is all about. 
This weekend. the improving Notre Dame hockey team travels to northern Michigan to play two games against perrenial powerhouse Lake Superior State. These games should serve to give the Irish an opportunity to see just how much progress they have made this season. 
Coach Ric Schafer's Irish have been playing solid hockey lately, maintaining their respectable fifth place standing in the highly-competitive COlA. They own a 3-3-1 overall mark. 2-3-1 in con­ference games. 
A major reason for Notre Dame's suc­cess has been the outstanding play of senior goaltender Greg Louder. In his first four starts, Louder has allowed only five goals. His save percentage in that span is an impressive .946. In addition, Louder has tallied two assists thus far to help the offense. 
Louder and his teammates will have to be at their best this weekend against LSSU. The Lakers, national runners-up last season and national champions in 1991-92, are in sole possession of first place in the COlA. 
"No doubt, they're a powerhouse team," said Schaefer. "They're very, The Observer/Jake Peters very good." 
Freshman forward Pat Bellmore and the rest of the Irish hockey team visit perennial 
In addition to being talented. the 
power Lake Superior State for a pair of games this weekend. 
Lakers are deep. Last weekend, the Lakers played two games without their league. Senior center Clayton Beddoes, has already amassed 61 points, includ­top netminder. This posed no problem, a pre-season candidate for the Hobey ing nine this year. though, as freshman Sean Kulich Baker Award (college hockey's version Notre Dame, however, should have a stepped between the pipes to win both of the Heisman Trophy), is leading his good chance at shutting down the games. In the process, he was named team in scoring with 12 points. Right potent Laker snipers. Irish defenders CCIIA defensive player of the week for behind him is junior Wayne Strachan. continue to keep the team in every his .980 save percentage. The center has notched 11 points thus game with their hustle, effort, and abil-
Offensively, LSSU is just as talented far. Rounding out the threesome is and deep. Three State skaters are sophomore winger Steve Talliare. In 
see HOCKEY I page 19

• among the top ten scorers in the his young career, Talliere 
Inside SPORTS SMC 
VOLLEYBALL 


Belles basketball and swimming 
Irish look for automatic bid to NCAAs open their seasons this weekend. 
in this weekend's MCC Tournament. 
see pages 21-22 see page 22 



