
~~~--------------~----­
The Observer


VOL. XXV. NO. 71 FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Academic council discusses future study days 
By EMILY HAGE "We have certain constraints of classes, said O'Neill. Though to deans, officers, and students, "We achieved our goal," said News Writer for fall semesters," said Butrus. study days are technically class faculty make decisions in the Butrus, who said that they were 
Exams are not allowed on Sun­days, "professors don't like the Academic Council. aiming for a more relaxed 
days, which O'Neill called "a fact that the number of days Reaction to study days was atmosphere during exams. 
The Executive Committee of philosophical point with the could be less than 70 with study mostly positive, however, said The proposal for study daysthe Academic Council is dis­University." There must also be days," said O'Neill. In addition, Butrus. was made by Bill Daley in an cussing the issue of study days a certain amount of days of va­members of the faculty are "Rectors loved it," O'Neill April meeting in 1992, execu­for the future fall semesters, cation before Christmas day, upset about last semester's said. She explained that rectors tive assistant in Student Gov­said Student Government pres­which can make scheduling study days. were grateful for the marked ernment at the time. "The ident Greg Butrus and Vice difficult, depending on the day "A large constituency of the decrease in cases of sickness proposal seemed to make logi­President Molly O'Neill. of the week Christmas falls. faculty felt uninformed [of the and stress in their dorms during cal sense; it's a universal sys­Schedules have been proposed Another obstacle that the study days] last semester," said exams. Students, too, praised tem," said Butrus. for the next two years, and final study days proposal has con­Butrus. the new system. Butrus said Study days for this spring will decisions will most likely be fronted is faculty opposition. "A lot of it depends on what that students said that they felt be on Thursday, Apr. 28 and made in late January, said Students must attend between the faculty is willing to do," less frantic than they had in the Friday, Apr. 29. 

Taking inventory 
Pasquerilla West sophomore Theresa Ho checks her organic chemistry lab drawer to make sure the various glassware items are present and accounted for. 
Butrus. approximately 69 and 72 days Butrus continued. In addition past. 

Letterman leaving NBC for CBS in June 
NEW YORK (API -David building lobby for "Late 
Letterman told his "Late Night" ticketholders and 
Night" audience Thursday said there would be an ad­
he'll be taking his "Stupid ditional line "if you would 
Pet Tricks" and Top 10 lists like to host the show." 
from NBC to CBS. Letterman then an­
Letterman said his last nounced that his last show 
show on NBC will be June on NBC would be June 25. 
25. The audience groaned, and 
Letterman didn't give de­he replied, "Do you really tails of the move. CBS was mean that, ladies and expected to announce later gentlemen?" that it had signed Letterman He continued: "Shortly for an 11:30 p.m. talk show, thereafter we'll be taking smack against his old friend this program to another Jay Leno and NBC's "The network -can I mention Tonight Show." this? -taking it over there 
Not immediately known to CBS." was how NBC planned to fill Letterman's first guests Letterman's 12:30 a.m. slot. Thursday were movie critics The 11-year-old show had Gene Siskel and Roger helped NBC dominate late­Ebert, and Siskel asked if night television. Letterman would keep the 
Letterman. during the show in New York. afternoon taping of his "We'll stay here if we can show, tipped his hand by find reasonable hourly park­starting with a joke about ing rates," Letterman 
AP Photo 
how he would be visiting replied. 
outgoing President Bush to The irascible talk-show 
pick up any extra moving host's decision to leave NBC Talk show host David Letterman is headed to CBS after his eleven
boxes. Then Letterman was fueled by public 
year run as host of Late Night. His last NBC show is scheduled to airreferred to lines in the NBC see LETTERMAN I page 4 on June 25. 


Iraq will conform to some sanctions 
Hurt by U.S.-led air attacks in • Indiana reaction, page 4 
the south, Iraq promised Thursday to abide by two U.N. weapons inspectors from dis­demands. But still unsettled in mantling Iraq's weapons of the new Mideast crisis was the mass destruction. key issue of Iraqi missiles that Baghdad also promised to could target allied planes in the stop the raids into Kuwait to 
region. remove Iraqi material left there Although Iraqi leader Saddam after Iraqi forces were routed Hussein vowed to strike back, from the area in the 1991 Per­
U.S. pilots patrolling Iraqi sian Gulf War. airspace following the Wednes­Saddam seemed to escalate day night raids found no sign of the pressure as the final days of 
hostile activity in the "no-fly" the Bush presidency ran out. He zone of southern Iraq. repeatedly challenged the allied 
U.S. officials said only one of policy of prohibiting Iraqithe four targeted anti-missile planes and missiles from enter­batteries was knocked out in ing southern Iraq.the short, intense air raids. President Bush, who ordered They said allied jets would at­the attack a week before his tack again if needed. four-year term ends, said it had 
The official Iraqi News "made the skies a little safer." Agency reported two planes Kuwait, within range of Iraqi had flown over northern Iraq artillery, placed its 11,700­on Thursday but fled after be­strong armed forces on full ing "confronted" by anti-air­alert. The first of 1,100 U.S. craft forces. There was no soldiers from Fort Hood, Texas, elaboration and the planes left for Kuwait, where they will were not identified. join 300 or so special forces 
Baghdad gave no indication it there. would withdraw the missiles Iraqi television said there that had provoked the attacks were "mass demonstrations" by 
by American, British and tens of thousands of peopleFrench jets. But it did quickly nationwide to protest the raids back down on two other issues: and show support for Saddam. Deputy Premier Tariq Aziz It showed footage of crowds said Iraq had ended a ban on 
U.N. flights that prevented see IRAQ I page 4 
Driver abducted, shot to death 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Police are holding a couple from Georgia on kidnapping charges in the abduction of an armored car driver later shot to death in Indiana. 
Kay Quinn Reich, 38, and Lawrence Bartley Steward, 27, both of Warner Robins, Ga., are being held in the St. Joseph County Jail in South Bend on federal kidnapping charges. 
No charges had been filed in the slaying. 
Reich was arrested by offi­cers at a vacant drive-in theater where armored car driver Mark Price, 35, also of Warner Robins, had been shot several times. He died about 
8:45 p.m. Tuesday at South Bend's Memorial Hospital. 
Steward, a former South Bend resident, was arrested around 2 p.m. Wednesday at a homeless shelter, police said. 
Price, the driver of a Wells Fargo van carrying more than $10,000, was last seen the 
see DRIVER I page 4 
----·~-~-~~ 

r 
I ;St 
~ 
page 2 date 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What kind of people can be above the law? 
I have decided to join 
that long and honored  
tradition  of  American  
hP-roes and dignitarifls.  
I'm going to break the  
law.  
I  think  I'll  pick  a  
violation that is colorful  
and eye-catching, like,  Paul Pearson  
maybp,,  I'll  go  to  the  Associate News  
Jefferson  Memorial  in  Editor  

Washington. D.C., and paint a clown face on the Jefferson statue there. 
Of course, I pick this violation because I want to go all out and violate a Congressional mandate. and painting a clown face on Jefferson ought to do the trick. Congress has laws against evp,rything, so I'm sure they've got this covered. 
And, since I am announcing my intentions in a major publication (yes, people actually read this rag from time to time), I will be following another American tradition-I'll get caught. Americans seem to have a tough time violating Congressional acts without being discovered. Something for us to work on, perhaps... 
Anyway, I'll probably get arrested and get my face on all the newscasts (the networks just love those criminal types). After some legal hassles, I could be the subject of that time-honored American tradition-the Congressional investigation. 
Once I'm hauled before the committee, I'll be all set. Since the reporters and the 1V cameras will all be there, I'll speak not to the investigators asking me questions, but to the television audience of "decent, ordinary, hard­working, blue-collar Americans." (I've never understood how the color of your clothing influences the way you think.) 
I'll talk all about the things Americans love to hear about from their heroes: honor, duty, patriotism, pride and the "American way" {whatever that is). Never mind that I have knowingly broken the law and thumbed my nose at Congress' wishes. When I'm through, the public will consider me a hero. T-shirts will be printed. Book offers will come flooding in. Someone will nominate me for president. 
In short, I'll be an American hero. 
Ofcourse, this won't stop Congress from thwarting· the public's wishes and prosecuting me for my crimes. Even though I'll admit to having painting a clown face on Jefferson, I'll accuse my prosecutors of being motivated by pure political malice. I'll drag out the judicial process for years, dragging all my co­conspirators {you can't do anything alone these days) and the federal government through millions of dollars and tons of wasted time. 
Then, maybe as a Christmas present, the President will complete this uniquely American saga with a pardon. That will complete my canonization as a hero. Movie offers. Lecture tours. Endorsement contracts. Why, being a hero will make me rich beyond my wildest dreams. 
But then again, the more I think about it, the more I realize that maybe they won't let me be­come an American hero. 
You see, I'm not a Republican. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Meredith McCullough Jennifer Habrych Mike O'Hara  Production Whitney Sheets Susan Marx Sports Jonathan Jensen  
Illustrator Steve Duenes  Viewpoint Allison Ebell  
Systems Harry Zembillas  Accent Kenya Johnson Janelle Harrigan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 

NATIONAL Two charged with stealing blower 

• MILWAUKEE -A snowblower was stolen at gunpoint from a man as he cleared the snow near his house during the height of this week's storm, police said. Two men were arrested and charged with armed robbery. 'Court Commissioner Anthony Machi set bail at $1,500 each for Ward Shackelford, 27, and George Reed, 18, and scheduled a Jan. 22 hearing. A neighbor flagged down police after Tuesday's robbery. They stopped two men in a car and found the snow blower in the trunk, police said. Five-inches of snow fell during Tuesday's storm. 

FBI will seek Barbie Doll slasher 

• SANDUSKY, Ohio -Somebody has been slashing Barbie dolls in the crotch and breasts at local de­partment stores, prompting authorities to call in the FBI to make a psychological profile of the slasher, police said Wednesday. Twenty-four Barbies have been damaged at three stores in the last eight months, said Timothy McClung, a Perkins Township police detective. Some stores have increased security where the dolls are displayed. McClung said he asked for help because local police may be dealing with a sexual deviant. "We could be dealing with a very sick person. I would hate to think six months or a year down the line that something serious happened because we didn't take that extra step," McClung said. The slashings came to light last week when a worker at a Hill's Department Store reported seven Barbie dolls were taken out of their boxes and slashed. Police then received a report that 




OF INTEREST 

• Professor Michael Lykoudis of the School of Ar­chitecture will present a talk titled Nineteenth Century Neoclassical Architecture and Urbanism in Greece on Sunday, Jan. 24 at 5 p.m. at St. Andrews. The lecture is open to the public. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 14 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 280,039,500 + 1.48 to 239.60 S&P COMPOSITE +2.91 to 435.94 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +4.32 to 3,267.88 

UNCHANGED 541 

GOLD 
-$0.30 to $327.30/oz 
SILVER -$0.022 to $3.675/oz 
. :· 
·:· 
:City 
Anchorage Atlanta Bogota 
Cairo 
Chicago Cleveland Dallas 
H L 
37 3t 58 32 68 44 63 43 34 16 42 28 45 35 36 22 39 23 52 36 48 41 64 56 55 37 27 19 36 34 

two Barbie dolls were slashed at a Kmart store. Then Best Products Co. Inc. reported that 15 Barbie dolls had been slashed at its store since May. Store representatives declined to talk about the slashings. 
Free medical school to be offered 
• 
PHILADELPHIA -The University of Pennsylvania said Thursday it has begun offering tuition-free education to top medical students, freeing them to choose a specialty without worrying about repaying loans. Beginning in 1995, a $10 million endowment from an anonymous alumnus and his wife will cover the $87,000 annual tuition for 25 students in the four-year program. Eventually Penn hopes the program will cover all medical students. "It will give our students the choice to pursue careers in research, primary care or education if they so desire without the burden of overwhelming debt affecti.ng their decision," Dr. William Kelley, dean of Penn's medical school, said. Many medical students graduate with a debt of $70,000 or more and to live comfortably need to earn about $150,000 annually, according to Penn figures. The debt forces many students to opt for high-paying specialities, such as cardiology, Kelley said. The scholarships, awarded on achievement, not need, will not cover the students' other expenses, which average $12,000 a year. 

• 
Of Interests are for one-time, free events of general interest to the public. The deadline for entries is 1 p.m. on the day before publication. To contribute, come to the office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center of call 631-5303. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTOIW 
• 
In 1965: Former British Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill suffered a stroke that would eventually kill him. 

• 
In 1969: A fire on the nuclear aircraft carrier USS Enterprise, then the world's largest warship, killed 13 sailors. 

• 
In 1976: The NCAA overwhelmingly defeated a pair of proposals that would hav'e divided the money from college football games among all members of the association. 

• 
In 1987: Federal investigators said that two Conrail crewmen on the train tha·t sped into the path of an Amtrak passenger train had marijuana in their systems at the time of the crash. 


------------------------------------------------------~ 
t-nday, January 1!::>, 1!:l!:l3 1ne uoserver 
page 3 





Saint Mary's to offer new class 
By LYNN BAUWENS News Writer 
The Department of Business Administration and Economics at Saint Mary's may be offering a new course in communication in 1994 that would focus upon oral and written communication for accounting majors. 
Claude Renshaw, professor of accounting, conceived the course to combat the increasing numbers of graduates who have little time to study the art of communication. Students taking the course would con­centrate upon the development of listening, speaking, and writing skills to better prepare them for the world of business, according to Renshaw. 
"Due to the recent increase in accounting regulations, so much more time in courses is spent upon learning the techni­cal aspects, which justifies a separate course for developing communication skills," said Renshaw. 
The proposed three credit course will resemble the cur­
rent Business Communication course open to all undergradu­ate students, however, Com­munication for Accountants will only be open to accounting ma­jors. It will concentrate upon the communicative skills of students instead of the technical skills of the accounting major, said Renshaw. 
While it may not be a re­quirement, this unique course is expected to give an advantage to students when entering the job market because businesses are more interested in hiring persons with interpersonal skills, said Renshaw. 
Given the recent recommen­dations of the American Insti­tute of Certified Public Accoun" tants (AlCPA), the proposed course is timely and necessary for undergraduate students of business, said Renshaw. 
In the year 2000, AICPA will instate requirements of 150 hours of college credit for per­sons wishing to be certified as Public Accountants. This is 22 more hours than currently re­quired for graduation at Saint 


PLEASE CONSERVE OUR RESOURCES. RECYCLE. RECYCLE. RECYCLE. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
St. Mary's News Editor 
Please submit a personal statement to Anna Tabor by 5 p.m., Monday, Jan. 19. Questions, call 631-4540 or 284-5365 

Mary's. AICPA advises that these additional hours be classes in communication and liberal arts. 
Students currently within the department are required to complete an Advanced Writing Proficiency within their major. They are also encouraged to take advantage of the liberal arts environment by taking more than the minimum re­quirement of courses, said Renshaw. 
The new course will com­plement this and fill the need for effective communication among accounting majors, a step ahead of the present re­quirements of the AICPA. 
Professor Renshaw is devel­oping the formal proposal to place the Communication for Accountants course on the books. He was enabled to cre­ate the course for consideration by a Saint Mary's College Course Improvement Grant that he received last year. 

If approved, the course will be Pasquerilla West sophomore Theresa Ho checks her organic offered in the spring semester chemistry lab drawer to make sure the various glassware items are of next year. present and accounted for. 
Course emphasizes research 
By MATT BOWER News Writer 
Anthropology professor Martin Murphy has an interest­ing solution to the research verses teaching debate at Notre Dame-combine them. 
His summer anthropology class "Ethnographic Field Methods and Techniques," al­lows students to conduct their own research project in the South Bend area. 
Murphy first offered the course last summer and seven students participated. The stu­dents decided to do ethno­graphic research on the His­panic population in the South Bend area. 

"I simply gave the students a general theme, then we collec­tively designed a project. The group decided what was impor­tant and who to interview," said Murphy. 
The project provided some extremely valuable information on the South Bend Hispanic population, dispelling many common rumors. For example, the study found the Hispanics to be no more transient than any other St. Joseph county citizens -most held full time jobs. 
The students involved hope to present their research at the Central States Anthropology Meeting. "This is very exciting for the students," said Murphy. "This is not just any research, 
Eddie, Happy 21st Birthday 
to a 

§u.nperr§ollll 

callllcdl Brro~lhlerr~ 
Love, Mom, Dad &Kim 
this is their research." 
Murphy offered the course for 
several reasons. First, he 
wanted to show students how 
research and teaching mix. 
"There has been a teaching 
verses research debate. In this 
class, students are teaching 
themselves and learning about 
research and how it goes with 

community," said Murphy. 
Murphy also wanted to pro­

vide Notre Dame students with 
an experience which he enjoyed 
during his own undergraduate 
education. 
"I did my undergraduate ed­ucation in Latin America and taught in Latin America," said Murphy. "There are some very positive aspects in Latin Ameri­can education, especially the practica.l experiences. 
I wanted to 

bring this to the United States." 
The course will be offered again this summer and is open to all students with permission. 
"I am looking for students who will dedicate six weeks to an extremely intense course, " said Murphy. 
"Though no topic has been chosen yet," Murphy said, "A number of agencies have con­tacted us and have asked us to do research for them." 
Murphy said he is extremely excited for this summer's course and hopes to expand the program. "In thirteen years of teaching, it was the most en­joyable experience I have ever had." 
...·}Ji DroP Your Shorts! 
\ _ l!f t!f.' .\ 
\___ ~\J 

Resolve Not To Do LaundrY in 1993! 
Bring it to us instead! 
DroP off your laundrY in the mornini!. Pick it uP the same afternoon! 
page 4 1ne uoserver rl IUay, vi:iiiUi:il y I::>, I ::1::1-J 
Iraq Indiana residents react
Dave lists 

Letterman 
continued from page 1

continued from page 1 
to Allied air strike on Iraq
reasons

dissatisfaction with his 
in Basra carrying caskets cov­
{AP) -The allied air strike on President Saddam Hussein) now
bosses, who had passed him 
ered in Iraqi flags, and a bro­
Iraq brought back some painful it 'hill get worse." 
over as successor to Johnny 
ken window and chipped plas­
for leaving 

memories for Hoosiers who lost Harold Simpson of Anderson 
Carson, and a fervent 
ter at the Imam Ali mosque.­
(AP) -The Top 10 reasons loved ones during the Persian monitored Wednesday's events,
courtship by CBS. 
the holiest Shiite Muslim shrine
why I'm leaving NBC: 

Gulf War two years ago. as painful as they were. His son,
CBS was believed to have 
-in Najjaf. It implied allied
10. Heads CBS, tails CBS. 

Beverly Oliver of Bedford said 22-year-old Army Cpl. Brian
offered him $14 million to 
jets damaged the mosque.

$16 million a year, a hefty 9. Makes sense since I'm al­she hoped the latest action will Simpson, died in a Feb. 25,
But the mood in Baghdad
raise from the $7 million ready commuting with Andy end the conflict which killed her 1991, Seud missile attack on an
streets was somber. and people
Rooney. 

20-year-old son, Marine Lance Army barracks in Saudi Arabia. 
annually he earned at NBC. 
lined up at gas stations in case
8. At last minute, CBS kicked in Cpl. Brian Lee Lane. ''JI've been pretty upset the
Letterman will enter gab­
of shortages. "Are they going to 
a new set of Michelins. 

He died in action Feb. 25, last few months, the way
show gridlock, competing 
bomb again?" one man asked
7. I've stolen as many GE bulbs 1991, during fighting in Kuwait. {Saddam) is acting and for a
against Leno, the syndicated 
reporters.
as I can fit in the garage. 

"Today was the day my son lon1~ period of time we took no
"Arsenio Hall Show" and a 
More than 110 American.
6. In order to grow as an artist, flew to Saudi two years ago," action." Simpson said. "I just
new Fox show with come­
British and French planes
I feel it's important to do the the Bedford woman said kind of wish this thing would all 
dian Chevy Chase, among 
raided missile batteries
same crap over at CBS. 

Wednesday. end so I wouldn't have a con­
others. 
Wednesday in an aerial exclu­
5. Tired of being sexually ha­

"It just upsets me to think that stant reminder."
Letterman's departure had 
sion zone, set up in August be­
rassed by Bryant. 

we still have something to finish Simpson said he would like to
been in the cards, some say, 
low the 32nd parallel to protect
4. Can't convince them to do 

that should have been finished see Saddam Hussein uprooted
as early as 1988, after Leno 
Shiite Muslim rebels. 
another Triplecast. 

the first time. I just think of in Iraq, but was not impressed
was named "permanent 
Bush called the raid "a big
3. Finally realized that not only other families that may lose by Wednesday's showing when
guest host" to fill the gaps of 
success." 
were they never going to make 

kids because of this," she said. U.S. and allied warplanes
Carson's laid-back "Tonight" 
Pentagon spokesman Pete 
taping sehedule. me an anchorman, but that However. she said, "I feel if launched an air raid on Iraqi
Williams said one of the four

technically speaking, this isn't they don't stop him {Iraqi missile positions. 
Although Letterman signed 
Iraqi anti-aircraft batteries
even a news show. 

a new contract in 1990, he 
near the zone was destroyed,
2. CBS had the best Amy

was piqued when NBC sold 
two were moved after the raid
Fisher movie. 

"Late Night" reruns to 
out of range of coalition
1. They insist I wear pants.

cable's Arts & Entertainment 
aircraft and one -near Basra,

network without consulting 
In late '91, news reports in extreme southern Iraq -re­

"WONDERFULLY
or compm1sating him. 
And though he may never have expressly indicated his interest in the "Tonight" show, his feelings were hurt whnn NBC picked Leno for the job in June 1991 and al­lowed Letterman to learn about it from the media. 
That's when he retained llollywood "superagent" Mike Ovitz's high-powered Creative Artists Agency to negotiate with NBC, where his contract expires in late June. 
When contract renewal talks opened in September, NBC let the comedian "explore opportunities out­side of the rwtwork." 
Driver 
continued from page 1 
morning of Jan. 7 near Perry, 
said ABC and NBC were battling for Letterman's services. Spy magazine, a gossipy monthly, reported the deal was done: Letter­man would move to Los An­geles and follow "Nightline." 
In mid-1992, Advertising Age said ABC wanted to offer Letterman the 11:30 slot and move "Nightline" anchor Ted Koppel to Sunday morning, where he likely would succeed David Brinkley. 
Ad Age said even Fox Broadcasting Co. was inter­ested in Letterman despite having signed Chase to a late-night show for fall 1993. 
Prrce played, but everythmg rs pointing to a kidnapping," FBI spokesman Tom Benson in Macon, Ga., said. 
A gun and car were recov­mains operational. 
"The Iraqi southern air de­
fense network is now seriously 
degraded," Williams said. 
The jets also targeted four air defense command and control centers, but Williams did not have information on damage to those sites. 
Williams said one bomb hit an unintended target, but had no details. He also had no in­formation on Iraqi casualties. 
Baghdad claimed 19 soldiers and civilians were killed and 15 people were wounded in the air strike. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney dismissed the claims of civilian casualties as "gibberish." 
Aziz insisted Iraq's stance was not a sign of retreat, and that retaliation would be forth­coming. 


APPEALING DARKLY FUNNY! 
An exceptional film!" 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
"A HILARIOUS DEADPAN FARCE!" 
-Joe Leydon, THE HOUSTON POST 
AFilm by HAL HARTLEY 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 ' 9:45 
(;a. The van was found about ered at the scene of the shoot­two hours later parkPd on a ru­ing. Benson said some of the ral road in Pulaski County, Ge­cash was found in a South Bend orgia, poliee thnre said. motel room where Steward and 
"We have few details of how Heich were staying. things happerwd, and what role 
OBC JAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in August 1993. Excellent working conditions and salary. Open to all majors. Japanese speaking ability not required. 
Interviewing at Career & Placement Center Feb. 11tb & 12th 
Carrie, Hope you had a great 21st! 
.,. 
,
. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
1993~94 
EDITOR_,IN_,CHIEF 
Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and should possess solid communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editing and/or management is helpful. Previous newspaper experience is also helpful, but not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page personal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., 
Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional infor1nation, contact 
Love, 
Monica Yant at The Observer, 63J-4542 .
Aimee, Anne Marie, Colleen, Nikki and Stefanie 
Friday, January 15, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Americans voice feelings about Clinton presidency 
Clinton's approval rating rises to 71 percent in poll 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Clinton's popularity has soared since the Nov. 3 election, although a majority of registered voters believe he is already backpedaling from campaign promises, according to a survey released yesterday. 
The poll, conducted jointly by Republican pollster Ed Goeas and Democratic pollster Celinda Lake, also showed that a whop­ping number of voters think Clinton is "a different brand of Democrat" and that the party is changing under his direction. 
Goeas and Lake were to ana­lyze their numbers today at the National Press Club. 
They found that 71 percent of the respondents had a favor­able opinion of Clinton and 20 percent of those polled had an unfavorable view of the next president. 
On Election Day, voters were split 50-50 on the favorability question for Clinton, according to Goeas and Lake. 
The pair surveyed more than 1,000 registered voters Jan. 4­
5. The margin of error was 3.1 percent. 
Also, 84 percent of the voters said Clinton has done a good job as president-elect, with 69 percent approving of his Cabi­net selections. 
"He has an amazing oppor­tunity to succeed, but it's not a guarantee of anything," Lake said in an interview Wednesday. 
On the flip side, 58 percent of the voters agreed that Clinton has already backed off numer­ous campaign promises. 
"This plants the seed for problems in the future if Clinton doesn't move from rhetoric to delivery," Goeas said. 
Also, President Bush regis­tered his highest favorability rating and job-approval rating since the end of the~ulf War, the survey showed. He had a 59 percent favorability rating. 
"Now that their decision­making process is over, and perhaps out of a sense of fair­ness, voters have returned to their once-held view of George Bush as a likable person," Goeas wrote in his poll analysis. 
Those surveyed said Clinton should make creating jobs his top priority, but three out of four voters said they'd prefer long-term solutions to short­term patchwork. 
"The economy is still the 800­pound gorilla in the voters' minds," Lake said. 
Goeas wrote that Republicans should be worried about the way voters view the Democratic Party under Clinton. 
Sixty-two percent of the vot­ers said Clinton is a "different brand" of Democrat, with 29 percent saying he is a "typical Democrat." Nearly 70 percent said the party is changing, too. 


NOTRE DAME 
BOXING 
Practice Has Begun 
We'll be llleeting regularly at the 
boxing roon1 1st floor of JACC 
4:00p.m. -6:00p.m. 
everyday 
URBAN PLUNGE STUDENTS MANDATORY FOLLOW-UP MEETING 6:40-10:00 PM JANUARY 17TH (SUNDAY) 
Meet in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

*Save up to $3000 on your next car or truck *College graduate rebate of $500 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 
JORDAN 
FORD 
Minorities fear concerns to be ignored 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A number of ethnic groups, har­boring high expectations after 12 years outside of the federal power loop, are beginning to worry that President-elect Clinton might give their con­cerns short shrift. 
Blacks are concerned that Clinton may renege on his promise to reverse President Bush's policy on Haitian refugees. The Latino commu­nity is fretting about tighter immigration policies for Cubans and Mexicans. Both urban and rural interests complain there's no money or attention for them. 
So far, the job of soothing these concerns has fallen to Henry Cisneros, Clinton's pick for housing secretary. 
"It's a well-known litany of crime, economic development and job needs, and the need for housing and better quality schools," Cisneros said in an interview Wednesday. "All of these things have to be brought together." 
Cisneros, like many others, worries that the long-en­trenched problems of racial tension, poverty and crime will erupt, as they did in Los Ange­les last year, if not addressed quickly. 
But the problem is money. And the Clinton administration has edged away from some campaign promises this week, citing new, more dire projec­tions about the federal deficit. 
"Clinton's taking over at a time when we've had 12 years, largely, of neglect," said William Taylor, former staff di­rector for the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. "It leaves a residue of bitterness, on top of the country getting more di­verse. The only way to deal with the problem is head-on, calling for reconciliation." 
The complaints are largely voiced quietly; no one is willing to openly criticize Clinton at this early stage. 
But some groups, such as the 
National Rainbow Coalition 
and the American Jewish 
Congress, have offered 
Clinton's transition team full 
agendas enumerating their 
concerns. 
"We have to, as much as pos­
sible, disentangle race prob­
lems from the problems of 
economic isolation," said 
Robert Woodson, founder of 
the National Center for Neigh­
borhood Enterprise, a non­
profit advocacy group for low­
income people. 
Many blacks were disap­pointed that Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, selected a private school for daughter Chelsea, rather than Washington's predominantly black public school system. 
"We'll be paying close atten­
tion to what he does, and what 
his secretary of education 
does," said Henry Duvall, 
spokesman for The Council of 
the Great City Schools, an or­
ganization representing 44 ur­
ban school systems nationwide. 
"The problems of urban areas spill over into the schools. How are you going to start in the suburbs?" 
Hispanic groups are con­

__.. 
FOR DElAILS ... 
--= 
cerned that their input in

... 
BRING THIS TICKET TO 
urban reform efforts,
FUNTAN. INC., STATE RD. 23

-»·DI·~ 
;~~~ . -.,.... 
particularly in riot-torn Los Angeles, might be limited. 

UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
Friday, January 15, 1993The Observer 

Kidnappedl NV girl found aftel~ 16 days 



, 
\ 
.... 

Take your best shot 
Morrissey sophomore John Kilcoyne practices his aim on "William Tell." Sophomre Ed Jamieson played the courageous target for Kilcoyne's dart game. 

BAY SHORE, N.Y. (AP)-A 1 0-year-old girl missing for 16 days was found in good condi­tion Wednesday in an under­ground bunker at the home of the family friend who reported her disappearance. 
The elaborate hiding place was so well concealed that it went unnoticed by police posted around the clock in another part of the house, authorities said. 
The family friend, John Es­posito, 43, was arrested and faced arraignment Thursday on a kidnapping charge. 
Katie Beers, who had been caught in a custody battle be­tween her mother and god­mother, was found at Esposito's home after he told his lawyers he knew where she was and took authorities to his house. said Sidney Siben, one of the lawyers. 
There, he pulled back a book­case and pulled up a rug, re­vealing an underground room outfitted with a bed, toilet and television, Siben said. 
Katie "was able to crawl out," Siben said. "She was just very happy to be out." 
"She looked a little scared but was in good shape," he said. 
Police have said they ques­tioned Esposito for as long as 
1. 8 hours shortly after he re­ported the girl missing Dec. 28. He said he lost her at a video amusement center in Nescon­set, on Long Island. He denied any role in the disappearance, but police found no witnesses to corroborate his account. 
Police were posted in Espos­ito's house 24 hours a day, said Suffolk County Police Commis­sioner Peter Cosgrove. But the g~rl was held against her will in a.nother part of the house all 16 dlays she was missing, he-said. 
Esposito pleaded guilty about 15 years ago to charges of un­lawful imprisonment of a 12­year-old boy. 
If convicted of second degree kidnapping, Esposito faces a possible sentence of 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison. 
In a telephone call to her godmother the day she disap­peared, police said, the girl screamed, "A man has me! He has a knife! And he's coming now!" The call ended abruptly. The girl's mother and god­mother confirmed it was Katie's voice. 



Business 
Friday, January 15, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Bush: Better days ahead for U.S. 
Federal commission to investigate causes of S &L debacle 
Retail sales jump with holidays 
GM debt downgraded by agency 
• DETROIT-The Fitch debt-rating agency lowered its rating of $48 billion in General Motors Corp. debt, but upheld the GM financial subsidiary's ability to get the best rates for short-term borrowing. Fitch Investors Service Inc. was generally positive about GM's restructuring plans but said general concern about the recovery of auto sales in North America, growing weakness in sqme European economies and GM's shrinking market share influenced the downgrades. 
Hurricane victims find little relief 
• MIAMI-A $50 million advance on a bond issue to pay the bills of failed insurance companies has been exhausted, leaving victims of Hurricane Andrew in limbo for another month on their repairs. An industry-funded association paying hurricane claims still owes about $210 million to clients of defunct insurers, but the money is not expected to be available until mid-February, a Florida state spokeswoman said Wednesday. 
Oil ~rices unchanged by bombing . . .
•ew YORK -Most financial markets barely reacted to U.S.-led bombing of Iraqi missile sites, but oil prices finished slightly higher after swinging in the widest range in more th~tt a year. The much-anticipated attack was brief and investors concluded there was no peril to the world's oil supply. Stock, bond and currency markets all reacted calmly to the bombing Wendesday. Oil trading volume was heavy as rumors about the attack's progress swept the market. Prices moved in a 69-cent range between the day's high and low, the broadest spread since last Jan. 8. 
Dow J~nes ~ips with news of Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A fed­eral commission appointed to investigate the causes of the savings and loan debacle con­vened Thursday -nearly four years after taxpayers began demanding to know why they were forced to bail out the in­dustry. 
The National Commission on Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement spent its first public hearing questioning industry consul­tants and George Gould, a former Treasury Department under secretary in charge of the Reagan administration's efforts to rescue the government fund insuring S&L deposits. 
The eight-member commis­sion, created by the 1989 legis­lation that began the bailout, has adopted an academic ap­proach, looking for economic and institutional factors behind the S&L crisis rather than try­ing to affix individual blame. 
Karen Shaw, a Washington­based banking consultant and an adviser to the Clinton cam­paign, reviewed the role of Congress from 1979 to 1987. She focused on the patterns of thought that caused Congress to miss the developing crisis rather than on actions taken by the so-called Keating Five sena­tors or former House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, who re­signed amid ethics charges concerning his ties to the S&L industry. 
In the early 1980s, most leg­islators and other officials as­sumed S&Ls were crucial to providing housing to Americans 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Bush today issued a final report card on the state of the economy, proclaiming that while the country has come through tough times, better days are ahead. 
Bush used his last "Economic Report of the President" to de­fend the past 12 years of Re­publican stewardship. 
Tfi.e 454-page report took is­sue with what it called "the prophets of declinism" who contend the country is on its way to becoming a second-rate economic power. 
It also attacks "revisionists" who the administration said had wrongly tried to blame the recent period of sluggish growth on ill-conceived policies during the Reagan and Bush years. 
Noting that inflation and in­terest rates are now at their lowest levels in a generation, the president said the country was on the threshold of a pe­
•· 
riod of sustained economic growth. 
"America's future can and should be bright," Bush wrote in transmitting the report to Congress. "We have the strongest, largest, most suc­cessful economy in the world with the highest standard of living." 
The report, prepared by Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, forecast that the overall economy, as measured by the gross domestic product, will grow by 2.9 percent this year. It said this pace will be 
and that market forces would keep S&Ls on the right track even though federal deposit insurance shielded them, she said. 
It was only after the over­whelming weight of evidence proved those assumptions wrong that the consensus among policymakers shifted, said Shaw, who is reportedly being considered for a top reg­ulatory post in the ne~ admin­istration. 
"If nothing else, the S&L crisis is marked by a distinct lack of original thought on the part of Congress," she said. 
Some private experts, even 10 years ago, warned of the dangers ahead, but their testi­mony at congressional hearings was "consigned to the quiet hour," after lunch, when most 


George Bush 

enough to push the average unemployment rate down to 6.9 percent. 
The jobless rate climbed to a peak of 7.4 percent during 1992 and this rise during an election year was one of the factors cited for Bush's defeat. 
The forecast for modest growth in 1993 with inflation remaining well under control was in line with the expecta­tions of many private economists. 
Bush's last economic report sounded many of the Republi­can themes of the past decade, including the need to reduce the· burden of government reg­ulations and the benefits of lower tax rates to spur private investment. 
Bush also got in one last plug for his long-sought cut in tax rates on capital gains, the prof­its made from the sale of real estate, stocks and other assets. 
While never mentioning Clinton by name, Bush's eco­
of the lawmakers had left for other business, she said. 
Gould, who served at the Treasury Department from 1985 to 1988, spoke about his nearly two-year struggle to persuade Congress to have the industry bail out its own insur­ance fund. 
He said he faced an "efficient and well-entrenched" lobbying organization in the U.S. League of Savings Institutions and re­called that he once joked with James Baker, then Treasury secretary, that he needed his own political action committee to counter the group. 
Commission members did not question Gould about his public statements in the summer and fall of 1988, when he said it was unclear whether a taxpayer bailout was needed. Yet President Bush, within days of taking office in January 1989, asked Congress for $50 billion for S&Ls. 
Andrew Brimmer, co-chair­man of the commission, said the work of the panel, which began operating early last summer, was delayed by a funding snag and a holdup in making the original appointments. 
"There was no conscious de­cision to delay the work of this commission in order to avoid having a report in the public domain before the 1992 elec­tion," he said. 
Although the commission is focusing on the systemic rea­sons for the S&L crisis, it will not avoid highlighting the roles of individuals when warranted, he said. 
nomic report charged critics had overstated America's tem­porary problems caused by the 1990-91 recession while failing to recognize the country's sig­nificant strengths. 
The report said that over the past 12 years, Republican ad­ministrations had successfully lowered inflation, restrained the growth of federal regula­tions and cut tax rates to re­store incentives to produce wealth. 
The administration said the biggest failure over this period was the inability to restrain the growth of government spending which has led to record budget deficits and seen the national debt quadruple to $4 trillion currently. 
Among the challenges for the incoming administration, Bush's economic report listed the country's lagging produc­tivity growth, the crisis in health care and a poverty rate that has shown little improve­ment in recent years. 
The incoming administration is still debating whether to put forward a short-term jobs package to jump-start the economy even if it means inflat­ing a budget deficit expected to hit a record $327 billion this year. 
On this point, Michael Boskin, the president's chief economic adviser, said he would urge caution, given the prospect that the economy is on the road to sustainable growth without any added government stimulus. 

Inflation not a problem as wholesale· prices.·.rise 
.·· WASlUNGi'ONJAP) $evt!raltlHngs to wofl'Y 
•Wttoles~lepfiq¢S edged.•up· about," he said, "but infla­£t :m<?df:ls~ 1;6·pe:r~~ntJn tion certainlY The taborDe­1992, one 9f the .. ~est partmenes Producer Price ·shQ~tngs ·in Jhe Jast 2.0 Index. rose a modest 0.2 years, the gover~ment said percentin December. whkh 
Thursday:•.•Slow···eeqn()tnic.. helped limit the annual growth curbed the price .. gain. m~KK.lip~, ... ..· . ..... ·..• ·. . . ·The. report attributed 

..·.Mi~ftati()n. isjust n()~ a much of the annual em ?said Michael increase. to a 1,5 percent 
.. .. ;1i~ad of awashing~ advance in food costs, ·~q~ econgn).*c for~easting incluciing a 67.4 percent ~~f'Vic~. "()f ftll· of th(l pr()b* surge for fresh and dry lems we h{!,ye got t(lday; in~ · vegetables, :flatton i$ nfthe:in," lt was the first yearly in~ 
Ron s ......... lll.an~ vice crease in prices of finished .pl'e~itt¢nf 6f th~···Nati{lnal goods .at the wholesale lev~lA .· ·· ·· f'Vhol~saler~ since tbeyjumped 5.7 per­·I.>i agree9:< jJ s~e cent in 1990. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Retail sales jumped 1.2 percent in December as businesses en­joyed their best holiday season in five years, the government said today in further evidence of an improving economy. 
The big surge was spotty, however, as auto dealers en­joyed a huge jump of 3.2 per­cent but sales at department stores were actually down slightly when compared to the level of sales in November. 
The overall increase was still better than analysts had been expecting and depicted an economy that was slowly be­ginning to rebound following a prolonged period of stagnation. 
In other economic news, the government reported a disap­pointing increase in the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits. The Labor Department said jobless claims jumped by 52,000 for the final week of the year, the biggest gain in five months. 
The Labor Department said first-time applications for unemployment insurance to­taled 343,000 during the week ended Jan. 2, up from 291,000 a week earlier. Analysts said the big increase, while worri­some, probably overstated weakness in job markets. They said weekly changes were especially difficult to read dur­ing holiday periods. 
But in better news, the gov­ernment said that wholesale prices for all of 1992 rose by just 1.6 percent, the second­best showing in the past six years. 
Mike Evans, head of a Washington forecasting firm, said he believed the various re­ports were pointing to an econ­omy that was finally beginning to shake off the doldrums of three years of recession fol­lowed by extremely slow growth. 
"I think in January we will see further signs that employ­ment is finally starting to pick up as firms become more op­timistic about the recovery," he ,, said. "We are going to see in­creases in production to rebuild inventories and that means more people will be hired." 
The Commerce Department's retail sales report showed sales increasing $1.93 billion last month to a seasonally adjusted $166.76 billion. 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, January 15, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .... .,Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........•.. Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
several students reported that  Dame Security that they had each victim.  
they received racially harassing  received racially harassing If it is determined that the  
phone calls during the closing  phone calls that began to person or persons responsible  
weeks of the Fall semester.  emerge as a pattern of offensive for these phone calls are stu­ 
Unfortunately, harassing and  behavior by one or more dents, adjudication of this seri­ 
obscene phone calls are not a  individuals. At a time when ous breach of University stan­ 
new phenomenon in society at  Notre Dame is striving to be a dards of behavior will be han­ 
large or on the Notre Dame  welcoming and inclusive com­dled by the Office of Residence  
campus.  munity, these calls are particu­Life in accordance with the  
Each year the Notre Dame  larly reprehensible. procedures set forth in du Lac.  
Security Department receives  The person or persons mak­If you should receive a ha­ 
numerous reports of harassing  ing such calls attempt to· rassing, obscene or threatening  
telephone calls. The calls take  frighten and intimidate the vic­phone call. or if you have any  
different forms and are directed  tims while hiding behind a veil information about such calls,  
at different people within the  of anonymity. Such cowardly please contact the Notrn Dame  
University community.  actions are intolerable in any Security Department af 631­ 
Sometimes the calls are ra­ community and are especially 5555.  
cially harassing in nature or are  offensive in a Catholic univflr­I urge each member of the  
targeted at a particular ethnic  sity where respect for the worth University community to join in  
group. Sometimes they are  and dignity of each and every condemning this unacceptable  
sexually or otherwise ha­ member of the community is behavior, and I ask for your  
rassing. Sometimes the calls are  central to our academic mission assistance in preventing its oc­ 
directed at faculty, sometimes  and Christian tradition. currence in the future.  
at students or administrators.  The Notrfl Dame Security Dfl­ 
In all instances, this behavior  partment gives careful attention William W. Kirk  
is totally unacceptable.  to every report of a harassing Assistant Vice President for  
Beginning in the middle of the  call. Every effort is made to Residence Life  
Fall semester, but in particular  identify the person or persons Jan.13, 1993  
in the period following  responsible, as well as to pro- 
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF' THE DAY  

Alumni Association says "thank you" to students 
Dear Editor: would especially like to thank 
We would be very apprecia­members of the porn pon squad, tive if you print the following as the cheerleading team, the soon as possible: marching band and Glee Club 
To the Notre Dame, Saint whose talents added greatly to Mary's and Holy Cross students .the festive nature of the who participated in Cotton Bowl weekend. activities in Dallas: 
Our goal was to make your 

On behalf of the Notre Dame stay as enjoyable as possible Alumni Association and the and to remind you that your Notre Dame Club of Dallas, I Alumni Association is first and would like to thank all the stu­foremost a service organization. dents who participated in the Stop by our in 201 Main various activities surrounding Building if we can be of assis­the Cotton Bowl. tance. 
It is our sincere hope that you Charles F. Lennon found the Hospitality Center, Class of 1961, 1962 pep rally, Masses, and game­Assistant Vice President day activities enjoyable. We University Relations 
Amtf3 THE MANY Ql£5TKJN5 THAT 
ANOWHY {)/0lr1R. 8/HIWAIT YtARS 

MR. fl.JSH'S OIFEI1J1AS Q?VCCR-UP 
7lJ PROot.a foKJT5 HE CJ..AJMW 

~AR£ 7H&q£: 0/0 Til& 
HE NEV&R HAP? Jt/HYaJENTIRE 

PR£!31PENTfARIX)VMR. altiN9CR3· 
513CT/av5 APPeAR 7lJDeA1!931N6'f' 

fl? 7lJ AWIPHAVIMJ 7lJ le5TIFYA­
IA/CR£ 711& 7RAN5C&f7l!3 ''E/JrTW" 
8FFORE7HfiYIIHE71JRN!?/10VB<?

8:XJTHIS OWN {((){,tINJI?.AN6/VU 
WHETH&R OR NOT THESfQU/Ef!ON5 AR/3 £1$R FUU.YANSW~ ON/3 THIN6 HAS NOlA/ IJeCOME CI£AR : 61::0R6t8[Jq(tutu-8& R&Melrl­et:RWAS 7HEP/?5Sif:l&NTtdHO (])VEmJ tJP 7J/t IRAN5A7E SCAV/JAl... 
J 
I 

'/~'1(,1.2.. 
\ I 
~fCC1o.b~ \ ~3 

-~J ~-~!1::+. 
~;,~jIll.:.... 

Harassing phone calls intolerable 
Dear Editor: Thanksgiving break, several teet the good order of the As many of you are aware, students reported to Notre community and the privacy of 
'Om~ truth stands firm. All that happens in world history rests on something spiritual. If the spiritual is strong, it creates world history. If it is weak, it suffers world history.' 
Albert Schweitzer 
QUOTh'S, P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 


Viewpoint

Friday, January 15, 1993 page 9 
Experts and intellectuals should stick to their field 
Disparity in funding for public schools creates inequality 
Americans have an odd view of advanced education. Holders of physics doctorates become qualified as theologians, theol­ogy graduates become expert economists, philosophy profes­sors become authorities on in­ternational relations, and so on. 
This causes two serious prob­lems: First, it fools many intel­lectuals into thinking they are experts in fields far outside 
Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 
their area of expertise, and, second, it causes many Ameri­cans to accept as fact the opin­ions of people who often do not know what they are talking about. 
The heart of the first problem is best illustrated by the follow­ing, possibly apocryphal, story. When the American catholic Bishops issued their most re­cent pastoral letter on the American economy (in which they advised politicians and economists on how to deal with a number of complex economic problems, most notably poverty}, a reporter called No­bel prizewinning economist Milton Friedman to get his re­action. 
Friedman, with no theological training, responded, "We economists were touched by the bishops' concern. In gratitude a number of us are writing an authoritative statement on the immaculate conception, which we hope to send the bishops in the near future." 
Many intellectuals make the same mistake the bishops made. Jean-Paul Sartre, for 
In 1968, in a sample of 110 Texas public school districts, the wealthiest spent an average of three times as much per pupil as the poorest, even after the state's "equalizing" contri­bution. A federal district court 
Ed Manier 
A Left Jab 
held Texas in violation of the 14th Amendment guaranteeing all citizens equal protection of the laws. In San Antonio Inde­pendent School District v. Ro­driguez, 411 U.S. 1 (1973), 
Justice Lewis Powell (joining fellow Nixon appointees Burger, Rehnquist and Blackmun), wrote the deciding opinion reversing the lower court, finding that education "is not among the rights afforded ex­plicit protection under our Fed­eral Constitution." 
Since Rodriguez and Milliken v Bradley, 418 U.S. 717 (1974) many states, as opposed to local districts, fund no more than minimal training for menial work, not the education instance, thought that his status as a prominent philosopher qualified him to speak on alle­gation of human rights abuses by Stalin (Sartre publicly ar­gued that Harry Truman's America had a much worse human rights record than Josef Stalin's Russia). 

More recently, Helen Caldicot felt that her background in pe­diatrics qualified her to speak and write widely on the issue of nuclear war (she stated that it was "a mathematical certainty" that there would be a nuclear war by 1990 if Ronald Reagan was reelected in 1984). 
The embarrassing list goes on and on. Another example; in my own field, law, the American Bar Association (the semi­official representative of nearly all American attorneys) regularly issues statements and passes resolutions on political, theological,and political issues such as abortion and affirma­tive action. 
These are only a few of the most prominent examples of the problem; there seems to be a general consensus among highly educated intellectuals that expertise in one field makes them general experts on all issues of public concern. They do not even make a pre­tense of speaking only as con­cerned citizens, they con­sciously hold themselves out as experts: The bishops and the ABA speak as an official body, and Sartre would often couch his defenses of Stalin in philo­sophical terms and denigrate the ability and qualification of his opponents. 
The second, and more seri­
required if every citizen were to make effective use of the rights of speech and voting. 
Currently, ratios in public school per pupil funding in the various states (rich district: poor district) range from 2:1 to 
10:1. From $15,594 to $7299 in New York State; from $19,000 to $2000 in Texas. 
Such disparity has catas­trophic impact upon the· quality of education: doubled class size, simultaneous multiple class­room uses for school gyms, an inadequate supply of outdated textbooks, reduced curricula with no A.P. courses, few or no computers and science labs, inadequate maintenance of an­tiquated buildings, high turn­over of uncertified -frequently "truant" -substitute teachers, high drop-out rates and low col­lege readiness of the most able. 
Public school finance relies heavily on local property taxes. Pupils from poor districts with low assessed property values receive pitiable per pupil ex­penditures even as their par­ents pay higher tax rates than those paid by the affluent. 
In California, the state 
#f• 

ous, problem is that intellectu­als themselves are not the only ones fooled. Instead, the public at large often inexplicably ex­pects anyone with qualification in one area to be an expert in all fields. One of the most common and ludicrous exam­ples of this is the habit people have of asking prominent physicists and astronomers about theology. 
When Cambridge mathe­matician and physicist Stephen Hawking toured the country a few years ago after publication of his book "A Brief History of Time," interviewers bombarded him with questions about the existence and nature of God. This of course was as foolish as asking him whether the Fed ought to lower interest rates further to stimulate the economy, or whether UNLV should have been given the NCAA "death penalty." Hawk­ing is a physicist, not a philoso­pher (to his credit, he generally 
Supreme Court [Serrano v. Priest, 96 Cal. Rptr. 601-626 (1971), and 135 Cal. Rptr. 345 (1977)] ruled that state, not lo­cal, tax monies must be dis­tributed to insure nearly equal per pupil expenditures. In re­sponse, on June 6, 1978, a conservative coalition sup­ported Proposition 13, the first of the now famous "no new taxes" Propositions. California, ranking eighth in per capita in­come, now ranks forty-sixth in percentage of income allocated to public education (50th in class size). 
When state courts find their constitutions require equal ed­ucational opportunities for all citizens, "government by Proposition" punishes all public schools. [J. Kozol, Savage inequalities, children in Amer­ica's schools, 1991. ] 
Is it any wonder that all the kids are above average in Lake Wobegon? 

Arguments that the present situation is deplorably unten­able come from both ends of the political spectrum. David Hamburg, M.D., President of the Carnegie Foundation (Today's children: creating a fu­told the interviewers as much). 
Similarly, the media and the public took the American Catholic Bishops' letters on the economy and nuclear war quite seriously. Likewise, another leftist pediatrician, Dr. Ben­jamin Spock, attracted large audiences when he spoke out against nuclear weapons in the 70s and 80s. 
Ross Perot's candidacy, though he is not an intellectual, is a prominent current example of the negative effects of these two problems. Perot is an ex­cellent salesman and a good businessman, but he is neither a public official nor a policy maker. Moreover, during his brief stints on GM's board of di­rectors and a federal commis­sion on the POW/MIA issue, he demonstrated that he has little skill in the critical presidential arts of compromise and diplo­macy. 
Nonetheless, Perot convinced himself and a third of the American electorate, before withdrawing from the race in July, that he would make a better President than Bill Clin­ton or George Bush. Perot and his followers think that his ex­pertise in business somehow translates into expertise in for­eign relations, urban issues, and legislative strategy. 
In short, it is time for intellec­tuals in particular and the pub­lic in general to realize that theologians are only experts on theology, that lawyers are only experts on law, and that pedia­tricians are only experts on children's medicine. It does a disservice to all of us to pretend otherwise. 
Rick Acker is a 1992 gradu­ate of the Notre Dame Law School and is currently doing research there. 


ture for a generation in crisis, 1992) and Berkeley Law School Professor John Coons agree our economy cannot stand the strain of assigning 25% or more of our pre-college population to dead-end schooling just because their parents are poor or black or hispanic. "There is no graver threat to the values of free enterprise than the present cyclical replacement of the 'fittest' of one generation by their artificially advantaged offspring." 
It may be natural for success­ful parents to want to hand the good life to their offspring like a well-baked cake, but it's not the way to pick a first team that will stay #1. 
UCLA Law Professor Kenneth Karst (Belonging to America, Yale, 1989), argues that the U.S. 
Constitution and its 14th (equal protection) Amendment enable us to continue to remedy circumstances in which some citizens "belong to America" and some don't. How could we say "you don't belong to America," more clearly than to say to a five year old "you live in Detroit" (Milliken ) so "it doesn't matter how talented you are, you get 'minimal' schooling"? 
Nearly a century after Plessy 
v. Ferguson (1896) ["separate butequal"], in spite of Brown v. Board of Education (1954), our resegregated public schools manufacture inequality. 
Ed Manier is a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame. 



JANUARY 15-17 

weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 
Dave Snyder Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m., 255-0458 Sea of Words, Club 23, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS 
The Mystery of Irma Vep,Bristol Opera House, 8:15p.m.848-4116,$ • 
saturday 
MUSIC 
Dave Snyder Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m., Sea Of Words, Club 23, 9:30 p.m. The Randy Martin Band, Gipper's Lounge, 9 p.m., Holiday Inn, 272-6600 
EVENTS 
Bridal Expo, 9:30a.m. to 5:30p.m., Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame, 233-3141 Make Loop Potholders, 1 to 4 p.m., Art Studio at Fernwood Botanic Gardens Echoes ~The ~lng, Elvis Presley tribute, 7 and 9 p.m., Penn-Harns-Madtson Service Center, 258-9569, $ 
sunday 
MUSIC 
Winter Relief, South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra, 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditonum, Saint Mary's 
EVENTS 
The Mystery of Irma Vep, Bristol Opera House, 5 p.m., 848-4116, $ Bats In Your Belfry, 2 p.m., Nature Center Auditorium at Potato Creek Park, $ 
remembering MLK 
The Meaning Of The Dream: "The Life of Martin Luther King Jr.", Friday 10 a.m., Goshen College Mennonite Church, 535-7571 "In Rem~mberance ~f Martin", Sunday 2 p.m., Dunes Ctnema at lndtana Dunes National Lakeshore,$ Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration, Sunday 7 p.m., Conner-Mayo African Methodist Episcopal Church, (616) 782-5656 
Martin Luther King Jr. Worship Commemoration, 
Sunday 7 p.m .. Valparaiso University, 464-5000 

Logan Center offers diverse volunteer opportunities for student~> 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 

The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who volunteer at the Logan Center are not only vital to the Center, but also just great to have around to help out, according to Ann Lagomarcino of the Logan Center. 
Approximately 75-90 students volunteer varying amounts of their time at the center for the mentally disabled. 
Students organize and help participate in three major programs for the Center. The first is the Saturday Rec Group that organizes activities including games and special parties at the center on Saturday mornings like games and special parties around holidays. 
The group also runs a Friday night dance at the Center once a month and oversees Friday afternoon bowling outings. 
ND Junior Juliet Dickmann is a leader of Logan Center volunteers who works in the Saturday Rec Program by going on the bowling outings each Friday, the dances and the Saturday morning activities. 
Dickmann also supervised a group of 100 who came to the Notre Dame vs. BYU football game with student donated tickets. She has also helped organize visits to the Logan Center by the Notre Dame Cheerleaders, Porn Pon squad and baseball team. 
Another of the three groups of student volunteer operations is the Best Buddies program which matches a student with a Logan Center participant and encourages a year-long friendship. There are group activities planned for the best buddies. but it is encouraged to be an individual friendship between the two people. 
Super Sibs is the last of the programs and also the most recently organized. It pairs a eight to 13-year-old Logan Center participo.nt with a volunteer who has a sibling with Down's Syndrome a11d encourages a strong friendship commitment much like that of the Best Buddies program. 
Students can also volunteer in other ways. such as working in the classrooms of the Center with either adults or children. Helping w;ith swimming pool activities to develop sensory stimulation and working with a Tuesday night choir are other options. 
Logan Industries, which is affiliated with the Logan Center, i~. a sheltered workshop that employs 300 people with Down's Syndrome or some type of mental disability. Students ca.n volunteer at Logan Industries and help teach the clients who w~rk there about safety issues, current events and even those studying for their GED. 1 
The newest program at the Logan Center that is in need of volunteers is the preschool day care center. 
The Logan Center appreciates all kinds of volunteers, even those who can help in unconventional ways including using their computer, marketing or photography skills. 
Volunteers and children fe{}/ adifference with Head Start 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
Accent Writer 

If you love children and you're looking for a worthwhile volun­
teer opportunity that won't take too much of your time, then Head 
Start is for you. It requires less than two hours a week, and you 
can make a difference in the life of a four-year old, and maybe 
even in your own life. 

Just ask the volunteer coordinator of Head Start, Lois Clark. Last 
year, a total of 85 students volunteered with the comprehensive 
child development program. And in the more than 20 years that 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been involved with' 
Head Start, three students have gone on to make Head Start their 
life's vocation after graduation. 
Volunteers assist teachers in classes of 20 four-year old children 
at sites set up at local schools and churches. They mainly work 
one-on-one with children, talking and playing with them while 
actively engaging them in conversation. 
Because so many of the children come from difficult situations at 
home, Clark said that they truly benefit from the individual 
attention they receive from the volunteers. 
But the program also benefits. because the contributions of the 
volunteers make it possible for Head Start to continue to the re­
ceive government funding that makes the program possible. 
According to Tamara Lyzinski, group leader of student volun­
teers, Head Start is a wonderful program if you like to work with 
young children. "It takes so little time," she said, "and the kids B1re 
so receptive to the students." 
Vans take groups of students to Head Start sites every morning 
between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m., bringing them back in time to make 
their 11a.m. classes. Volunteers are also needed on afternoons 
between 12:30 and 3:30 p.m. and students can volunteer as often 
as they want. 

Anyone with a car willing to drive volunteers to sites and anyone 
interested in volunteering at the sites is encouraged to contact 
volunteer coordinator Lois Clark at 234-2150 or student group 
leader Tamara Lyzinski at 634-1349. 

Students mak 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Assistant Accent Editor 
"Dear Big Brothers/Big Sisters, 
I glanced at the clock during my hectic day as a secretary in a busy office. It was 3:30 p.m. I still had two hours to go, but my son Jay would be leaving school right about then. That day. I didn't have the usual half-guilty gnawing in my stomach, however. I know that Jay's Big Brother Bob would be waiting for him in his brown pick­up truck for an afternoon together. 
Bob entered my son's life four years ago. It wasn 't long before Jag. who typically kept to himself was calling Bob his best friend. With Bob's help, Jay has grown from a rebellious, hot-tempered 11-year old to a level headed, con­siderate young man. Thank you! 
Sincerely. Kaythleen Cun­nungham. As printed in an edition of the Friend to Friend newsletter. 
Jocelyn Reed ·is a nine year-old girl from Mishawaka who lives 

~---------------~--~-----------~""'!"":"-------------....-'111! 
Friday, January 15, 1993 



'new friends with Big Brothers/Big Sisters 
with her mother and grand­mother. Like Jay in the l·ctter above, Reed is involved with the Big Brother/Little Sisters Associ­ation. 
Once a week, Reed meets with Aurelie Gallagher, a Notre Dame junior, for a few hours of baking cookies, playing games in the LaFortune game room or just talk­ing about what is going on in their lives. Sometime in the future Reed wants to go sledding. Maybe next week Gallagher will teach her how to make lemonade. 
But the program is not just about playing games and going places. It's about being there. It's about friendship-building. The relationship between Reed and Gallagher began just last semester and is slowly developing from a weekly meeting between two vir­tual strangers into a true friend­ship. 
Through Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Reed is able to "spend time with someone" who is not a parent or friend from school, she said, and Gallagher is glad she can be there for her. 
"There are so many kids that just need to see another side of life," she explained. "They need someone to be a friend uncondi­tionally, away from parents and other friends." 
And that's where the Bi~ Brothers/Big Sisters Association steps in. 
Adopting the philosophy "little people need big people," the or­ganization is a one-to-one pro­gr::tm for children between the ages of 8 and 14 in single-parent families. It has been matching "brothers" and "sisters" for nearly 92 years now. 
According to Chris Zepf, presi­dent of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Big Brothers/Big Sisters Association, students have played and important role in the St. Joseph County chapter. Students "make up two-thirds of the pro­gram," he said. 
"We are looking for volunteers to serve as both a mentor and a friend," Zepf said. 
Talking to Reed, it is clear that her Big Sister has become just that. "She's my favorite girl bas­ketball player," Reed said. "In gym (class) we do relays. I always pick her name (Students are allowed to assume the name of their choice)." 
According to Zepf, volunteers should be able to offer between three and five hours a week and must undergo a screening process. Volunteers must have access to transportation. 
Nobody will say that being a Big Brother or a Big Sister is easy. Like anything worthwhile it takes work and dedication. Gallagher stressed that the relationship between Reed and herself is a "building" one: 
"It can be frustrating; but it is happening and it is worth it to watch it happen," she said. 
In a few weeks Reed will be competing in a spelling bee-she's already the city champion and says she looks forward to going head-to-head against her big ri~al. The spelling bee is important to Reed, and like any big sister, Gallagher hopes she can be there to cheer her on to victory. 

Fun and Learn volunteers 
give time and energy to 
disadvantaged children 
By KEVIN DOLAN 
Accent Writer 
If the average Domer is expected to be awake and alert at 9 
a.m. on a Saturday, something very worthwhile had better be happening. If you think that's impossible, then Todd Kazmierski has a surprise for you. 
It's called "Fun and Learn." Every Saturday at 9 a.m., 20-25 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's go to Havican Hall at Saint Mary's, where they work for approximately three hours with socially and mentally disadvantaged children between ages six and 13. 
"It's a great feeling to help these kinds of kids, especially when they need it like these kids do. It's a very rewarding experience," Kazmierski said. 
Volunteers lead the children through various activities includ­ing arts and crafts, music, and playtime. The kids love every minute of it, according to Kazmierski. 
"Sometimes they'll all be waiting outside the door of the hall, jumping around, all excited. They haven't had a lot of oppor­tunities to do things like this, so it's that much more special to them," he said. 
According to Fun and Learn's Steve Cozzolino, the skills needed to work with kids like these are not rare, for the most part. 
"Obviously, you have to like kids and be a good role model, " said Cozzolino. But, "You've got to be pretty motivated to get up that early when you've been out partying all night," he added. 
One key aspect of life that Fun and Learn tries to teach the kids is group cooperation. "We're promoting friendships between the students and the kids, but we also help them to get along better with other people. Many of them have difficulties in that area," said Kazmierski, citing attention-deficit disorder as one such affliction. 
Sometimes, though, the relationship between student and protege becomes stronger, to the benefit of both parties in­volved. "I've worked with the same kid for four years now, and we're really good friends. His family has given me a sort of home-away-from-home," Cozzolino said. 
"It's tough leaving them at the end of the year, when you've seen them grow and have grown with them," Kazmierski said. Still, many participants stay in touch with their "little broth­ers/sisters" over the summer months. 
Fun and Learn is hoping for approximately 10 new volunteers each year, according to Kazmierski. "For some of these kids, Saturday morning is the best part of the week," Kazmierski said. 
Hope Rescue Mission seeks student volunteers 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
There's a little run down building south of downtown South 
Bend on U.S. 31 which many people don't even know exists. 
A place in need of much more support-financially, voluntari­
ly, and spiritually. A place, that with the effort and love of just a 
few dedicated souls, houses unfortunate, uprooted persons that 
happen to be without shelter. 
This somewhat overlooked shelter is the Hope Rescue Mission 
of South Bend and "they need all the help they can round up," 
said junior Mark Krejci, one of 11 students in Professor 
Benedict Giamo's American Studies class, "Confronting 
Homelessness in America" in which one requirement was vol­
unteering at Hope Rescue Mission or The Center for the Home­
less. 
"Hope is much different for the Center for the Homeless," said 
Krejci. "Hope doesn't have the resources the Center has since 
the Center receives a tremendous amount of support from Notre 
Dame," he added. 
If Hope Rescue Mission was able to maintain the same kind of 
support from Notre Dame and the South Bend community, per­
haps their situation wouldn't be as strained. 
Sophomore Gregg Behr said part of the problem with Hope 
receiving aid is the way the public views the two centers. 
"Hope Rescue Mission is a lot older than the Center," said 
Behr. "Its structure is not as modern, its not as bright. These 
aspects have an effect on how the public sees the shelters." 
The Center for the Homeless may be more appealing to volun­
teers, suggested senior Natalie Updike. 
"Hope cannot compare to the Center, but that's no reason to 
neglect it," said Updike. "Hope needs just as many volunteers, if 
not more." 
Like the others, Updike agreed the Hope Rescue Mission is 
often overlooked because of its smaller, less modern facilities. 
Hope Rescue Mission has the following volunteer positions 
available: receptionist, driver, kitchen help, meal server, main­
tenance, office assistant, and Bible study and chapel service 
leadership. For more information call Joan at 288-4842. 

...

'-'P' oncn 
page 12 Friday, January 15, 19~13 
Can Bill Clinton and AI Gore serve as Me!;siahs? 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia aBonefy 9od 

Dear Bill and AI: 
As a member of the genera­
tion which parented the baby­
boomers, I voted for you in De­
cember, and have been nervous 
about it ever since. 
The woman you have desig­
natnd as the new Surgeon Gen­
eral hasn't helped any, since 
she's remembered for saying 
that Americans must get over 
their love affair with the fetus. 
It would be healthier, she has 
suggest"P.d, if they'd put more 
faith in condoms. which will 
save us from dying of AIDS. 
If that's all the brave, new world you promised us has to offer, January 20 will not be remembered as the start of the Messianic Age in America the beautiful, on which God has shnd His every grace. 
Pro-choice or pro-life are la­bels which can put us on notice of what to expect from a merely political candidate. but a mes­siah is needed whom we can entrust with the Dream. Part of his mission will be to deliver us from the fear. selfishness, and poverty that discourage people from welcoming children as blessings from God. 
"I tell you naught for your comfort/Yea, naught for your desire/Save that the sky grows darker yet/And the sea rises higher." (This verse from Ch­esterton was used on the leader page of the London Times on the day England went to war with the Nazis.) 
There's naught for your comfort, either, in the mail I continue to get about Notre Dame's 1992 Commencement. You could see from these let­ters, which are like a bird's-eye view of the Catholic mind, why it has not bnen easy for me as a priest to stay true-blue as an FOB (Friend of Bill). I've been punished since election day for 

on it, and had been since the 
day months earlier, when some 
of the militants visited the Pope 
in Rome, asking him to 
excommunicate Catholic politi­
cians in America supporting 
Pro-choice. 

Because Notre Dame honored 
Moynihan as a Catholic All-star, 
the Dome-bashers have wanted 
to punish the University for 
Moynihan's alleged sins. 
Shouldn't it be part of your 
new jobs, Bill and AI, to bring 
them in from the cold, not by 
supporting Wade v. Roe, but by 
rendering it moot? You could do 
that by making America so 
beautiful, abortions would be­
come unthinkable as a great 
crime against the Dream. 
Now that a student protestor has grown up to be president, shouldn't he take time out to look into the faces of students who travel to Washington to demonstrate in behalf of Pro­life? 
Shouldn't he make it a prior­ity to bring them in from the cold, since these are the chil­dren of the peaceniks with whom he sang the protest songs? 
Gary Wills has written of Gilbert Keith Chesterton, apply­ing for entry to America as a visiting lecturer in 1921, amused by the questions he had to answer: "Was he an an­archist? A polygamist? Did he advocate the overthrow of America by force? 
Chesterton said: "I have stood on the other side of Jordan, in a land ruled by a rude Arab chief. where the police look so like brigands that one wondered what the brigands looked like. 
But they did not ask me­whether I had come to subvert the power of the Shareef, and they did not exhibit the least curiosity about my personal 
views on the ethical basis of 
civil authority." 
Only America, says Wills, 
asked Chesterton what he 
thought about the kind of free­
dom it was peddling-"and 
asked him not as a settler or 
possible immigrant, but merdy 
as a visitor. He especially loved 
the idea that subverters or the 
nation would serenely de­
clare... their intention to sub­
vert." 
Chesterton "granted that America, with its ambition of combining the most disparate ingredients in one republic, ha.d to have a mold of some kind: 'The experiment of a democracy of diverse races has been compared to a melting pot. But even that metaphor implies that the pot itself is of' a certain shape and a certain substance; a pretty solid sub­stance. 
"The melting pot must not melt.' Chesterton rightly called the mold religious, and looked for the source of our religion in the Declaration of Indepen­dence (as that was understood by Lincoln): 'America is the only nation in the world that is founded on a creed...set forth with dogmatic and even theo­logical lucidity in the Declara­tion of Independence, perhaps the only piece of practical poli­tics that is also theoretical poli­tics and also great literature.'" 
To the extent that Chesterton read the Declaration as "dogmatic and even theologi­cal," he was misreading it, says Wills. 
If they are wisely led by their newly-elected leaders, perhaps the skirmishes in the streets can be kept from worsening into a civil war. Bill and AI, please be messiahs who will make us deserving of domestic tranquillity. 
voting as a Democrat. 
All I know about the Bush 
visit, Moynihan's Laetare Medal, 
and the Cardinal who never left 
Ireland is what I read in the 
papers. The President's 
commencement address was 
fatherly. 
The highlight was a crib, duly 
credited, from Father Hes­
burgh: "The best thing a man 
can do for his children is to love 
their mother." Dan Quayle must 
have been listening two days 
later-he was making Murphy 
Brown a household name. 
The President, side-stepping politics, promoting family val­ues, pleased the graduates by playing to the house, especially the parents. A cluster of the graduates wore white arm bands, presumably as a protest to the poobahs under the Dome who invited him, allegedly be­cause they were hand-lickers falling over themselves with eagerness to kiss Caesar's robe. 
Bush wasn't at Notre Dame to deliver a Saint Crispin's Day speech. His message boiled down to the idea that the family that prays together, stays to­gether. 
You could get the impression from hearing him that Amer­ica's foreign wars were fought chiefly in defense of working class people on their knees in the home with 01' Shep the col­lie beside them, asking the Author of Liberty to preserve our Dream. 
He may not have been explicit in saying any of these things, 

but it was a generic speech that 
implied them, if you wanted it 
to. 

The irony is that in staging 
this convocation as part of the 
show-and-tell of the Sesquicen­
tennial celebration, Notre Dame 
shot itself in the foot by 
allowing a Jonah on board as 
the Laetare Medalist. 

The image-makers were left telling each other with an em­barrassed chuckle: "After all, it's our gun and our foot." They stayed busy trouble-shooting for a week: "No, madam. This doesn't mean Senator Kennedy will get the Medal next year, when your grandson is gradu­ating." 
And so on that day in the JACC, the graduation platform served as a showcase for scan­dal which kept away bishops, while the rogue-elephant Catholic Senator from New York listened to the Happy Warrior of the Persian Gulf, nattering his New England heart out to papists, Democrats, and shakers and movers from Pax Christi. 
Nobody denounced him for kicking ass in Iraq or even Panama. If there were truculent Pro-lifers in the gallery, in so far as I know, they were not interruptive, and kept their peace. 
As a public relations event, the graduation had class, like a catered affair. But the militants in Pro-life have a hit list more spiteful than Madame De­farge's. Moynihan's name was 
Happy ~~1st Paige 
ATTENTION 
Stay as

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JUNIORS! 
. 
Sweet as 
Come find out about 
You Are! 

Summer Internship Opportunities in Information Systems at The Travelers. 
Your Familjr
SUMMER JOB FAIR Wednesday, January 20, 1993 Monogram Room, JACC 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
Serving 

ND/SMC Students for 27 years
* Please bring resume and transcript. 
Welcome Back
* Interviews to be held January 21, 1993. 
JANUARY SPECIALStudent's 

Oven baked 4-egg 

January
* All positions will be located in Hartford, Connecticut. 
jumbo Omelettes

Lunch Special 
Free Soup 
$1°0 offall month
with any 
TheTravelerSj 
no coupon needed 

Sandwich Purchase. 
You're better off under the Umbrella.® 
U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland 

After 11 a.m. please 
(Across from Holiday Inn) 272-7433

An Equal Opponw1ity Employer Just North of Campus © 19')~ ll1c Tra-.·dcr, C•..:•p:u1::~.l 1 arforJ, C"'m~ctim: (\0183 
Open at 6:30a.m. daily 


page 13
The Observer 

Friday, January 15, 1993 
Volcano erupts in Columbia; six dead 
Espy gives support for 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -A volcano erupted in southern Colombia as scientists were en­tering the crater. Six re­searchers were killed, eight injured and 10 were missing, officials said. 
"I can hear people below in the crater screaming for help," RCN radio reporter Jose Mene­ses said in a live broadcast from the rim of the crater after Thursday's eruption. Rescue workers were turned back by showers of super-heated rocks and ash. 
Three of the injured were 
identified as Americans and the 
other five were Colombians. 
The names of those killed or 
injured were not immediately 
available. It also was not known 
if any Americans were killed. 
The 14,109-foot Galeras vol­
cano, just outside the town of 
Pasto and 375 miles south of 
the capital, erupted with a huge 
column of ash at 1:43 p.m., the radio networks RCN and Cara­col said. 
"The ground suddenly began shaking and it began to rain burning rock and ashes," said an Ecuadorian volcanologist, Luis Lemains, who was injured. 
"People started running ev­erywhere to try to escape. Many of them got hit by rocks and had broken bones," he said. He and three companions hid in an opening in the side of the volcano, he said in an interview with Caracol. 
About 100 volcanologists and other scientists from around the world were attending a conference in Pasto, part of a U.N.-supported effort to study about a dozen volcanos around the world. 
The gathering was the second 
for the group. The first was in 
September in Seattle to study 
Mount Rainier. 
Steve Brantley of the U.S. Geo­
logical Service in Vancouver, 
Pavarotti cancels two shows due to ailing health 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Lu­ciano Pavarotti has canceled two engagements with the Opera Company of Philadelphia at his doctors' insistence -not because of a voice problem, but a weight one. 
The tenor's management frrm, Herbert H. Breslin Associates in New York, did not elaborate on the nature of the weight problem. 
But the rotund, 57-year-old Pavarotti has constantly tried to control his weight, which he does not reveal. In October, he announced he was trying to lose 126 pounds but did not say his health was in any danger. 
Pavarotti was to perform and direct in the February produc­tion of "La Boheme" and its March production of "La Fa­vorita." The two operas were cast with winners of the com­pany's Pavarotti International Voice Competition. 
Pavarotti judges the competi­tion and for the past 12 years has performed with the win­ners. 
The operas will be performed as scheduled, the opera com­pany said. 
Wash., said the service had been working with Colombian 

farm export programs 
scientists to upgrade monitoring instruments at Galeras. 
He said a July eruption dam­
aged the volcanic monitoring 
equipment at Galeras, but he 
did not know how badly it was 
affected. 
Three USGS geologists had 
planned to attend the meeting 
as part of the United Nation's 
Decade for Natural Disaster 
Reduction, but were denied 
permission by the State De­
partment because of concern 
about political violence. 
Galeras erupted last July 6 after 
three years of inactivity. It is 
one of 14 active volcanos in 
Colombia. 
The Nevado Ruiz volcano in 
central Colombia erupted in 
1985, spewing a 100 foot wall 
of boiling mud that buried the 
town of Armero. About 25,000 
people were ki~ed. 
Seagal braves Alaskan winter 
FAIRBANKS, Alaska (AP) ­Steven Seagal has fought off terrorists, killers and other bad guys on screen, so don't expect a little snowstorm to stop him. 
With 4 feet of snow on the ground, 8 inches more fell on Wednesday -the day the pony-tailed actor was in town to scout locations for his next movie. 
Buki Wright, a spokesman for Mapco Alaska Petroleum, said Seagal is interested in using a Fairbanks oil refinery in the action film, tentatively called "Rainbow Warrior." Sea gal will star and make his directing debut. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Mike Espy says that as agriculture secretary he won't let wran­gling over the budget under­mine government-subsidized farm export programs. 
"We should not lead with our chin when it comes to these important international bat­tles," the Mississippi con­gressman said Thursday at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Agriculture Committee. 
While repeating throughout his testimony that he would keep a close watch on budget concerns, Espy said budget writers need to caution against reducing export subsidies and other farm payments just for the "budget's sake." 
Doing so removes the power 
of the United States to 
negotiate lower farm subsidies 
with countries of the European 
Community, he said, adding 
that "I will be a strong 
advocate for opening up these 
markets in a fair and equitable 
way." 
But Espy also said he could 
not expect taxpayers to support 
farmers who cannot run farms 
efficiently. "I am going to have 
to be balanced in my ap­
proach," he said. 
During the hearing, Espy also 
voiced support for efforts to 
streamline the Agriculture De­
partment by closing field of­
fices, but said he wants to start 
by reorganizing management 
at the top. 
He also tried to allay 
concerns of Midwestern and 
Western senators that he was 
not as aware of the problems faces by farmers in the big cash grain and cattle states. 
"I've been one to build bridges all my life and all my political career," said Espy, the frrst black and the first South­erner to be appointed Secretary of Agriculture, and at 39 the youngest. 
"I've had to face the scrutiny of all those who felt that I could not perform and that I was not competent and that somehow through certain predispositions they already had judged me," he said. 
Espy beat a two-term Repub­
lican incumbent in 1986 to be­
come Mississippi's only black 
congressman this century. He 
sits on the House Agriculture 
and Budget committees. 
Espy was asked by Sen. 
Richard Lugar, R-Ind., about 
irregularities in campaign 
spending records that came up 
during Espy's background 
check. 
Espy said some checks were 
written directly to him for hotel 
and other travel expenses. "I 
never got more than what was 
coming to me, and the Justice 
Department acknowledged 
that," he said, blaming the er­
ror on poor bookkeeping by his 
brother Tom. 
Espy was also asked whether 
a personal staff member, 
Ronald Blackley who might be 
given a job in the Agriculture 
Department had divested him­
self of his interest in a rice 
farm and consulting business. 
Espy again mentioned his in­
volvement in the House bank­
ing affair, in which he admitted 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12·4 daily 233­
NOTICES 
2342 NO Ave & Howard 
ATTENTION: For more information and 
ILOST & FOUND I 
assistance regarding the Investigation of financing, business FOUND : Women's watch, just opportunities and work-at-home before finals, behind Washington opportunities, THE OBSERVER Hall. Call631-8828 or 631-7723. urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Found: Ladies watch in 127 Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd .. NSH on 1-13-93. Call 233-4925 to Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-identify. 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439·5313. LOST: Silver Peugeot watch lost 
Thursday of finals week in or 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIEO AOVER1'1SlNG POUCV 
. 

1. The Observer will provide dally classilled advertising as aseivicli iP lis readers in and outside the Notre DametSainLMaty's the c()mmunlty. Classified advertising will be available under ttie headings' Notices. test and Founo, For Sale, F~r Htmt, Wanted. TjCk~IS. arm' Per$cm<iL Las(arm' 
Found advertising is fl1;le to Ui~ public. · · · · · · · · · · 
2. lndividua~ placing Classified advertisliig l:iiin ~u ® ~Utii!' ~N~t offices at Notre Dame .and saint Mary's. dUtfiig rli!g!JI~r buiiii:leis!i r;i:ll4i!ii\it by sending lhe requested advertisement, in!ehiJiid~a~()I.Pul:)litll.tlori~(lj:j payment Ia the Observer offi'le by maH. lndiVid,t.@$ Plll"(:hasing Classili@: adVertising muS1 inelt.1de theirM name address 1);(19/qr telepl)o~ r~umi:ler 
for Observer records. ~nhe ad will be nolb&pl)blh;ned, · ······· · 
.... ···· ..... :.::·::::::::> 
3. The Observer Office Manager will over$e~ #1! #®fuffieii ~V~~~~ 
~:=~~~~~ ~~t~~~::i~~u~~~t·;~:~~~w~~w~1~~~i 
othEHwise unsuitable for publica lion will b~ dj;!l~te(j S.t}ha. MS.~.~~l~~ Editor's discretion. In extreme cases, the l:;ditoHti'P~~fwm mak~ lhe lii:t!i! decision whether to publish the advert~emern, ~o cl~silleci advel'ljslitg will be pub~shed without an i/1itia~ Of approval from the Maria.Qing E(iit¢1'; the Editor-in-ChifJf or .. in unavoidable cirot,nn$1ances, ~ ~~oiall{;;tpi)Qii#~ member of the Editorial B0;1rd. lndrvkl\;iats wtio~ ad~ tl? not aPP~M ;ii~ intended Shpuld contact the ObServer wlttlid )Q p~iy~ ptJti,~ fryte#g~ publication for explanation. Questions Md «ir~cetriii. i~v:Ql>iiril'l4tasSif\~d 
advertiSing should be directed 10 the Managing EditQk · · · · · · · · · · · · · 
4. The Observer wiii keep records of tndj\iiduais plaeihg ctassill~ advertfsements for sixty (60) days. The. O!)s~i'ver cl!(Mot be tieHl responsible tor questions irwotVirig adVertisefliei'lls m&r& Irian 00 d~Ys qid; nor ~;an t1 be held accountable for individual$ PrPiiiding fah;e irdomi<iitkiii when purchasing classified. advertiseme~t$~ orM n~rr~~ otiridliii{j;~fil~ plaCing advertisement wHi h6t•be releas$i:! to itliil p~bli¢ )![$a @~i Exceptions may be made a11he Managing: ~i:ff\()((i{EdhOrclJi"Ch\iiJf'~ dls~retion 111. extreme casas necessary t() protect iMdg~ts C!1 il:idiVidUats; 
around DeBartolo 101. If found please call Jesse at 43268. 
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring About size 4 1/2 or 5 . Pinky Ring. Please Call Amy x4530 
WANTED 
INTERNS NEEDED FOR TAX RETURN PREP AT LOCAL FIRM OWNED BY NO GRAD. CALL 257­8700. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employme~t available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 
Need Kentucky b-ball tix$X4890 
Needed: "Marketing" by Scheoll and Guiltinan, 5th edition. Please call x2535. 
FOR RENT 
Reserve '93·94 yr. 1628 Portage. 6 bedrm. Beach V-ball ct. 234-3831, 273­0482 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
FURNISHED ROOM. 
$170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. 287-2159. 
RESERVE ROOM NOW FOR JR. PARENTS WEEKEND. HOME B & B. (219) 291-0535. 

APPROVED BY STATE B & B ASSOC. 
Near N.D. quaint, clean furnished apts. 1 bedrm-240 2 bedrm-280 deposit, references 
1-800-582-9320. 

2, 3, & 6 BEDROOM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW AND NEXT FALL. 272-6306 
FOR SALE 
RAPID WORDPROCESSING Call Lori at 271-0754 
KENWOOD CAR FM/CASS PULL­OUT, DOLBY, ETC ORIG 800, 150 OBO, LINDA 234­7667 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call 284-3814 
WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814 
f need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
Who's your basketball coach?! Who's your basketball coach?! 
Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 basketball tix to the Kentucky WildCATastrophe due to take place in the month de amor. Be a pal, samaritan, or whatever and sell him the tickets or one of his Italian relatives might pay you a visit. Then the time for haggling will be over. Call Skip at x2052 and leave a message if he ain't around. 
I desparately need 4 stu tix to Duke NO game. Sean x1067 
Need 4 Duke GA's 4 or 2 and 2 Matt#1190 

I need DUKE & KENTUCKY tix!GA's or Student I Call Chris x1235. 
PERSONAL 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. 
(212)369-2597. 

SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, LIMITED SPACE. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
...AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279,-PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. 
IF YOU NEED HELP, CALL THE HEATER! 
I what wuv you 
Top 15 Quotes of the ND/SMC Ski Club Trip to Aspen: 
15. Don't look at me like I have 12 heads. 
14. I need to pick up a few condomints. 
13. Sure, but don't smack me as hard as the monkey. 
12. If we cut her here, she'd be perfect. 
11. Every guy you've talked to tonight has wanted to do this ... 
10. Beauty is only a lightswitch away. 
9. I think Tampax is a personal item. 
8. Who's your daddy! 
7. I was definately going to hook with her until I saw her get out of the hottub. 
6. That's what a little late night aerobics will do for you. 
5. Obviously you didn't see the other half! 
4. Soixante neuf!! 
3. Simultaneous orgasm ...OOOH My God!! 
2. I think I pulled something . 
1. Fantastic ... Super ...You Bet. ..YES, I DO!!! 
B E 
c 
K y I am glad to be back with you! Winter is too cold without you! ---Scot 
Rich· keep your head up ...reach for the stars. 
JENNY. ..er JEN ..wanna euchre? 


Atlanta 108, Detron 91 Washington 2 1 1-4 MIDWEST 
San Antonio 108, Milwaukee 93 N.Y. Rangers 1 1 3-5 
Bnadley 51, SW Missouri St. 46

Tburaday'a Collage Bukalball Scorea Houston 114, Charlotte 102 First PeriDO-t, New York, Gravea 17 (Meaaler, 
NFL Playoff• Eureka 76, Aurora 60
EAST Utah 96, Seattle 89 Lowe), 5:28. 2, WMhington, Hatcher 15 (Iafrate. 
Ferril St. 90, Grand Valley St. 83

At A Glance Alvemla 71, Phlla. Pharmacy 60 LA Lakers at LA Clippers, (n) Pivonka), 7:35 (pp). 3, Waahlngton, Hatcher 16 
Firal Round Hllladale 82, Michigan Tech 72
Amherst 79, Babaon 74 Phoenix at Sacramento, (n) (Bondra, CavaiHni), 8:40. 
Saaurday. Jan. 2 INinola St. 68, Wichita St. 67
Bloomfield 57, Nyack 47 Miami at Portland, (n) Second Perlod-4, Waahlngton,
Indiana St. 96, Drake 73 

Wahlngton 24, Mlnneeota 7 Brtdgeport 104, Tetkyo-Poat 98 Orlando at Boaton,Utah 96, Seattle 89 Pivonka 9 (Khr11tich, Hatcher), 3;09 (pp). 5, New
Indianapolis 74, Lewis 70

San Diego 17, Kansas Cny 0 CCNY 80, Baruch 611 LA Lakera at LA Clippers, (n) York. Palrlck 4 (Mesaler, Gartner), 8:Q4 (pp).
Kalamazoo 76, Alma 51

Sunday, Jan. 3 Cent. Conneaicut St. 92, N. Adams St. 44 Phoenix a1 Sacramento, (n) Third Perlod-6, New York, Gartner 2!1
Kanaaa 140, Oral Roberta 72

Blllalo 41, Houston 38, OT Fairleigh Dlcklnaon 65, St. Francis, NY 62 Miami at Portland, (n) (Amonte, Zubov), 7:51 (pp). 7, New York. Mesaler 19
Mlnn.·Mo"la 73, Moorhead St. 56

Pha.detphla 36, New Orlean• 20 Framingham St. 93, Nichola 76 Friday'a Gamea (GraV81, Amonte), 8:52. 8, New York, Grav86 18
Mount Vernon Nazarene 87, Lake Erie 67
Geneva 72, Grove City 87 Orlando at Boston, 7:30 p.m. (Amonte, Messier), 15:42. 9, Waahlngton, Hatcher 17
Oakland, Mich. 96, Northwd, Mich. 65
Olvlalonal Playoff• Green Mountain 99, Washington Bible 56 Philadelphia at New Jeraoy, 7:30p.m. (Carpenter, Hunter), 16:54.
Rio Grande 94, Findlay 90

Salurday, Jan. II Hartford 70, Boston U. 67 Cleveland at Indiana. 6 p.m. Shota on goai-Waahlngton 16·18·
Shawnee St. 99, Wilberforce 87

Buffalo :il4, Piltaburgh 3 Holatra 84, Army 52 Denver at Mlnn860ta, 8 p.m. t7-5t. New York t7·t2·1()-39.
St Joaoph'a, Ind. 68, N. Kentucky 64, OT
San Francisco 20, Washington 13 1ona 63, Loyola. Md. 47 Golden State at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Goalies-Washington, Hrvlnak. New 
Walsh 64, Ohio Dominican 57

Sunday, J~W~. 10 La Salle 80, 01111011 Mercy 73, OT New York at Dallas, 8:30p.m. York, Vanbiesbrouck. A-18,200. 
Oalla& 34, Philadelphia tO Wayne, Mich. 94, N. Michigan 78
LaMoyna 116, Eat Stroudaburg 83 Miami at Phoenix, 9:30p.m Miami 31, San Diego 0 Long leland U. 72. Mllrilt 71, OT LA Clippers at Seattle, 10 p.m. At Toronto Loyola. IU. 87, Duqu.na 65 Portland al LA Lakera, 10:30 p.m. St. Louis 2 0 t-3 Confaranca Champlonahlpa M-.·Oartmouth 75, Rhode Island Coli. 59 NBA STANDINGS Saturday'• Gamea Toronto 0 1 3-4 
Sunday, Jan. 17 
Mllarlvllla 1 13, Colurrbla Union 85 Detroit at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Firat Per1od-t, St. Loula, Hull 21 (Brown), 2:3t Blllalo at Miami, 12:30 p.m Moravian 74, W. Maryland 71 New Jersey vs. Washington at Baitimc (pp). 2. St. Loula, Shanahan 22 (Janney. Brown), OaiM at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
Mount St. Mary ... Md. 74, St. Francil, Pa. 70 Atlanta at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. tt :34.
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

N.C. Central 79, Bowla St. 67 Golden State at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Second Perlod-3, Toronto, Anderson
Atlantic Dlvlalon

Supar Bowl New Hampahlre Col. 115, S. Connecticut 68 Orlando at Chicago, 8:30 p.m t3 (Ellen, Ghmour), 5:08 (pp).
w L Gl
Sunday, Jan. 3t Niagara 83, Manhattan 64 New York at Houston, 8:30p.m. Third Perlod-4, Toronto, Rouao 2 
New York 20 13

At Pasadena, CaiH. 
Northeastern 82, Vermont 74 Charlotte a1 San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. (Gilmour), 2:47 (sh). 5, Toronto, Berg 7 (Zezel, 
New Jeraoy 19 15 1tl2
AFC Champion vs. NFC Champion Boston at Milwaukee, 9 p.m.
RPI611, Hartwick 51 Osborne), 8:58. 6, Toronto, Maooun 1 (Gilmour. 
Boaton t9 17 2112 
Rhode Island 96, St. Bonaventure 82 Dallas at Denver, 9 p.m. Mlronav), 12:Q4 (pp). 7, St. Louis, Janney 9 
Orlando 14 15 4
Pro Bowl Rider 68, Robert Mo"la 59 Sacramento at Lnah, 9 p.m. (Shanahan, Zorrbo), 12:28.
Philadelphia 12 19 7
Sunday, Feb. 7 Sunday'a Game
St Joseph's, N.Y. 82, St. Joaeph'a, L.l. 42 Shota on goal-St. Louis 8·16-&--29.
Washington 11 23 9112
At Honolulu Stockton St. 85, Lincoln, Pa. 80 Seattle at Portland. 8 p.m. Toronto tO..S..tt-29.
Miami 10 22 9112 
Stony Brool< 64, FDU·Madlaon 46 Goalies-St. Louis, Hebert. Toronto.
Cantral Dlvlalon 

Union, N.Y. 72. Middlebury 62 
Fuhr. A-15,625.
Chicago 24 tO 
Lnica 63, Oneonta St. 81 

Cleveland 20 15 4112 Wheaton 78. Klnga Point 57 AI Detroit
Charlotte 17 15 6
NFL Injury Raport WHiiaml 79, Skidmore 71 Tampa Bay 1 2 0-3
Detroit 17 17 7
NEW YORK (AP)-The National 
WorC88ter St. 100, WorC8tlter Tech 87 NHL s Detron 2 o 3--5 Football League Injury report lor thil week'a playoff Wadnaaday·:, Montr!r:-Firat Per1od-t, Tampa Bay, Tuckar 7 (McRae, garnaa, as provided by tha league: Atlanta 16 17 7112 
Milwaukee 14 20 10 Hartford 0 3 0-3 a-s), 3:47. 2, Detroo, ClccareUI17 (Gallant, 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Mid-at DlvlalonSunday SOUTH Montreal 3 1 3--7 Yzerman), 13:30.3, Detrott, Fedorov 20 (Sheppard.

BUFFALO AT YAY-BUia: OB Jim Ala.-Huntavllle 74, Llvlngaton St. 66 First Perlod-1, Montreal, Muller 19 (Hatler, Carson), 14:54 (pp).
w L Gl
Kelly (knee), LB Cornellua Bennett (h81111tr1ng), LB BlrmlnghanHlouthern 93, Faukner 74 Savard), 10:59. 2. Montreal, Deajardlna 9 Second Period-<!, Tampa Bay, 
Lnah 23 10

Shane Conlan (groin), CB Kirby Jackaon (h81111tr1ng), CarT1Jbellavllle 108, Brescia 96 (Damphouaae, Lebeau), 11:20.3, Montreal, Hartman 2 (Creighton, Kontoa), 7:34.5, Tampa Bay, 
San Antonio 20 13 3
DE Bruce Smith (rlba), RB Thurman Thomaa (hlp) are Coaatal Carolina 115, Md.·Baltlmore County 98 Skrudland 5 (Deejardlna, Dlonna), 11:46. Tuckar 8 (Beera, Bradley), 19:39 (pp).
Houston 17 16 6 Denver 9 23 13 112probable. Dolphlna: DE Marco Coleman (ankle), G CoiL o1 en.rtaaton 88, etwte.ton Southern 62 Second Perlod-4, Montreal, Lebeau Third Perlod-6. Detron. Yzerman 3;•Harry Gabreath (linger), TE Kenh Jackaon (ahoulder) Fla. lntlrnllllonal811, a--gta St. 68, OT 
20 (Keane, Damphouue), 4:A1. 5, Hartford, (Ciccarelli, Konstantlnov), 3:40. 7, Detron. Ysebae1 are probable. Kantud!y St. 116, S. kdana 82 
Mlnn860ta 6 24 15 112 
Sanderson 21 (Caaaels, ZalapeKQ, 8:28. 8, Hartford, t7 (Chiasson, McCrimmon), 5:47. 8, Detro!),
Dallas 2 28 19 112
DALLAS AT SAN FRANCISCO­Ky. W.la¥an 88, Balarmlna 72 Caaaola 9 (Zalapek~ Sanderaon), 11:30 (pp). 7, Sheppard 16 (Proben, Carlon), 15:32.
Pacific DlvlalonCOWboya: Report no lnjurlaa. 49ers: DE David Longwood 102, Nawpott Nfta 57 Hartford, Weinrich 2 (Janaaena), 17:28. Shots on goal-Tampa Bay t0..9·10­

Phoenix 23 6

Wllklna (ahoulder) Ia doubtful; DE Dennil Brown (leg· LoulaYIIa n, VL Commonwaalth 68 Thlrd Period--a, Montreal, Brunet 9 29. Detroit 9-tt·tl-33.
Seattle 23 9 1t12
flu), CB Don Grllln (flu), S Dana Hall (harr.trlng·flu) 
~~~-73, SE Loulalana 58 (Ronan, Brisebois), 7:53. 9, Montreal, Keane 10 Goall-Tampa Bay, Bergeron. 

Portland 21 tO 3
are probable. Montevalo 64, Auburn-Montgomery 64 (Damphouaae, Lebeau), 10:07. 10, Montreal, Lebeau Detron, Cheveldae. A-t9,5t8.
LALakera 18 14 6112
N.C. Charkltte 65, VIrginia Tech 56 21 (Dannphouaae, Belowa), 18:24 (pp). -­

Golden State18 16 7112
N.C.·WIImln{lton 73, Sacramento St. 60 LA Clippers t7 17 8112 She* on goal-Hartford 4·16--25. AI Edmonton, Albert•New Orieanl 60, Arkansas St. 56 Sacramento 13 11 MontrealtU-12-31. Winnipeg 1 2 t-4

18
Nldlolil St. 79, North Texas 78 Goalt.-Hartlord, Pietrangelo, Burke. Edmonton 1 0 0-1 Queena, N.C. 86, Belmont N:bey 6t Montreal, Roy. A-16,200. Firat Perlod-1, Edmonton, Werenka t (Simpson,Richmond 611, Siena 67 Wedneaday'a Gamea Podeln), 1:48. 2, Winnipeg, Eagles 5 (Selanne), S.C.-Spartanburg 65, Georgia Coil. 56 Boston 98, Washington 93 15:39.

SW Louisiana 90, Jackaonvllle 84 New Jersey 104, Cleveland 98 Second Period-3, Winnipeg, ShannonSalltbury St. 91, Washington, Md. 69 PhNadelphla 129, Golden State 122 10 (Bautln), 14:08. 4, Winnipeg, Zhamnov 13 

samord 86, Stetson 71 

Detro« t12, Dallas 96 (Selanne, Otauaaon), 17:10 (pp).
Tenne~~aoe Tech 90, Austin Peay 72 San Antonio 89, Mlnne~~ota 81 Third Period-5, Winnipeg, Selanne 36Texu-Ar11ngton 72, McN881e St. 70 Denver 108, New York 92 (Zharnnov, Houatey), 16:44 {pp). ' Transylvania 94, lnd.·Pur.·lndpla. 75 Sholll on goal-Winnipeg 4·5-19-~:8.

W. Kentucky 92, Ark.·Liltle Rock 56 
Edmonton 6·8-4-t8. 
William Carey 86, Tougaloo 61 


WE'RE OPEN TONIGHT! 
Seniors 
Come Start The Last Semester Off Right At YOUR Club 
Open 9--2 must be 21 



Friday, January 15, 1993 The Observer 
Dallas stages record pep rally 


IRVING, Texas (AP) -Dallas 
Cowboy fans jammed into Texas 
Stadium on Thursday night for 
the biggest pep rally in the 
state's history. 
A crowd estimated at more 
than 70,000 gave a rousing 
sendoff for Sunday's NFC 
championship game against the 
San Francisco 49ers. The fans 
cheered widely as Cowboys, 
present and past, were hailed 
in a spectacle that lasted 75 
minutes officially, but more 
than three hours in reality. 
"We have more fans for this pep rally than most teams have for their football games," all­pro wide receiver Michael Irvin .said to the cheering crowd. "We'll see you in Pasadena." 
the site of the Super Bowl. 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones 
and head coach Jimmy Johnson 
got standing ovations when they 
were introduced for brief 
remarks. 
Jones estimated the crowd at 
more than 70,000 even though 
5,000 seats of the 65,000 ca-
Emmitt Smith 
pacity seat in Texas Stadium were blocked off for a short fireworks display near the end of the rally. 
"We had thousands of fans outside unable to get inside," Jones said, after the rally. "We just had no idea that this many people would show up. We cer­tainly anticipated a lot, but this was outstanding. The NFL and certainly the Cowboys really do want this kind of spirit. This is what sports and football should be about." 
Quarterback Troy Aikman, running back Emmitt Smith and other Cowboys, one by one, kept the fans in a frenzy when they appeared, spoke, and when the highlights of the 1992 season were flashed on two giant screens in the stadium. 
Earlier in the rally, five former great Cowboys took the stage and also got ovations. They were quarterback Roger Staubach, running backs Tony Dorsett and Robert Newhouse, tight end Billy Joe Dupree and wide receiver Bob Hayes. Staubach and Dorsett drew pro­longed ovations when they were introduced, and the Texas Stadium crowd cheered loud and long when highlights of the old "America's Team" were shown on the giant screens. 
Johnson spoke only on!.J minute and said "They worked very hard but their work is not done. I'll ask you the same question I asked them 'are you satisfied?"' 
The crowd thundered, "No!" "Let me ask tlrat again 'Are you satisfied?'" "No!" The crowd responded. 


The sun worshiping. The primitive dances. The mating rituals. The primal screams. Only one beach can hold this much culture on its 23-mile sandy stretch. This Spring 
Break, head for Daytona Beach. For more information, call 1-800-854-1234 for your free Spring Break Planning Kit. 
page 15 

AFC foes set for matchup 
MIAMI (AP) ...__ After two that way about us because we straight Super Bowl losses, both got here." some people perceive the Buf­To Sunday's AFC champi­falo Bllls as losers, Don't count onship game, that is. In 1990 the Miami Dolphins among and '91, the Bills were home them. for the final step to the Super 
Bowl and beat the Raiders, then the Broncos. The next step, winning the NFL title, 
Aikman seeks respect versus San Francisco 
IRVING, Texas (AP) -Troy Aikman, it seems, always has something to prove to his crit­ics. 
It's not enough that he's led Dallas to 14 victories, including a playoff triumph over the Philadelphia Eagles in his first postseason start. 
He still knows what some people will be saying. 
"One of the storylines this week will be I haven't been in the conference championship game and what kind of pres­sure will I feel since I've never defeated San Francisco," the Cowboys' quarterback said. "I keep having to prove myself. The media puts me to the test each week. Each week they put a different obstacle in front of 
me." 

It's not that Aikman, a top draft pick in 1989 out of UCLA, tries to dodge any issues or teams. If anything, he's been accused of being too macho, 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO SANTIAGO, CHILE TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION NIGHT Monday~ January 18~ 1993 
6:30p.m. 
114 o~ Shaughnessy 
staying in the pocket too long, and taking dangerous chances when he does scramble. 
"I like pressure," he said. "It's wonderful to play in a city where football matters to peo­ple." 
His durability has been a con­versational topic. But he an­swered those critics by getting through a long season with only a hurt finger. He never missed a quarter. 
Aikman led the NFC in com­pletions with 302 and ranked second in the conference in passing yardage and touch­down passes behind Steve Young, his opponent in Sun­day's title game at Candlestick Park. 
"Troy completed 65 percent of his passes," offensive coor­dinator Norv Turner said. "That's pretty good. I can re­member critics questioning Joe Montana's deep throws. And he's the best who ever played. There will always be something like that going on." 



Friday, January 15, 1993 

Seles named female athlete of the year for ~second tim1e 
Monica Seles repeated herself 
in 1992, winning three of the 
four Grand Slam tournament 
titles and dominating women's 
tennis for the second straight 
year. 
Today, she repeated as Asso­
ciated Press Female Athlete of 
the Year. 
Seles, who won every Grand 
Slam tournament except Wim­
bledon last year and reached 
the final in 14 of 15 tourna­
ments, is the first woman to win 
the award in consecutive years 
since another tennis star, Chris 
Evert. in 1974-75. 
Seles said she was honored ­
and fortunate -to get the 
award. 
"I think last year was pretty lucky," she said in Melbourne while preparing for the Aus­tralian Open. "I can't go on winning three Grand Slams and getting into the finals of every tournament." 
Seles. who turned 19 last month, beat out a strong field of Olympic stars for the AP award. 
She received 40 first-place votes and 296 points from a nationwide group of writers and broadcasters. Figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi finished sp,cond with 29 first-placp, votes and 257 points, while track and field star Jackie Joyner-Kersee was third with 23 and 210. 
Speedskater Bonnie Blair was fourth, followed by sprinter Gail Devers. gymnast Shannon Miller. swimmer Summer Sanders, hockey goalie Manon Hheaume, race car driver Lyn St. James and skier Petra Kro­nberger. 
It is rare for a non-Olympian 
to win the award in an Olympic 
year. It has happened only three 
previous times -Evert in 1980, 
Mickey Wright in 1964 and 
Maureen Connolly in 1952. 
Connolly is the only tennis 
player to win the award three 
consecutive years (1951-53). 
Four other tennis stars -Seles, 
Evert, Althea Gibson and Alice 
Marble-have won it twice in a 
row. 
In 1992, Seles won the Aus­tralian, French and U.S. Opens for the second straight year. But her bid for a Grand Slam sweep was stopped by Steffi Graf in the championship match at Wimbledon, the only Grand Slam title Seles has never won. 
Although women's tennis is probably more competitive than ever, Seles is the undisputed queen. She won 70 of 75 matches last year, earned a record $2.6 million on the tour, captured her third straight Vir­ginia Slims Championship and retained the No. 1 ranking she has held since March 1991. 
Most of her victims felt like Martina Navratilova did after losing to Seles 7-5, 6-3, 6-2 in the Slims final. 
"In the last two sets I got run over by a Mack truck," Navratilova said. "It is amazing to me that she can hit the ball that hard that close to the line so consistently." 
The only major prizes that eluded Seles last year were Wimbledon and an Olympic gold medal. Seles, a native of Yugoslavia who now lives in 


AP File Photo 

Tennis superstar Monica Seles won her second straight AP Female Athlete of the Year award yesterday. 
Florida, was ine ligible for the  well  as  her  machine-like  Afterward,  Seles said she  
Barcelona Game s because she  victories. Pressured by the Bri­ would concentrate more on  
didn't participat e in the Fed­ tish tabloids to lower her ded­ shutting down her opponents  
eration Cup.  bel level at Wimbledon, she  than  shutting  up  during  
Seles made head lines with her  obliged with a gruntless loss to  matches.  
noisy grunts on  the court as  Graf in the final.  

Men's tennis faces OSU this weekend 
Special to the Observer 
The NotrP. Dame men's tennis team will open up its 1993 dual meet season on Saturday when it travels to Ohio State. The Irish. under head coach Bobby Bayliss, are ranked sixth in the 
country  in  the  latest coach of the ye ar last season Coleman and For syth will play 
Intercollegiate  Tennis after leading th e Irish to the No.1 doubles. whtlesenior  
Association Hankings.  NCAA Champi onship  

Leading the way for the Irish this season are seniors Will Forsyth. who is ranked No. 19 in the latest ITA rankings, and Chuck Coleman. Forsyth and Coleman will play the two top spots for the Irish, but Notre 
Powlus 
continued from page 20 
lie could start right away at Pitt. but Johnny Majors won't have the program at a top level for a few years. Penn State has two quarterbacks with experi­ence returning next year, re­ducing a freshman's chances for playing time. 
~00®®~~~~ 
PARTY DEST1NATIONS CANCUN h•m $469 DAYTONA fian $1 09 
......,....._.__~""-­
BEST PRICE GUARANTEED 1 (800)265-4654 
1'.R AVELF--R E"-:E-­
EARN BIG ....AND FREE TRAVEL 0 11J&niH a ttud.ont group to o.,. of our hoUday loeatlonol 
Dame will be without senior Andy Zurcher, who has a ten­don injury in his wrist. Zurcher was ranked No. 42 in the latest ITA rankings. 
"Obviously, the loss of Zurcher will really affect us," says Bayliss. who was the national 
team finals. "But, I've always thought that we have a lot of depth on this team and Saturday we'll get the chance to prove it." 
Senior Mark Schmidt. who advanced to the semifinals of last weekend's National Colle­giate Timnis Classic in Palm Springs. California, will play the No, 3 spot while senior Ron Rosas will be at No.4. The fifth and sixth spots are still to be determined according to Bayliss, 

Chris Wojtalik and Schmidt will play at No. l({oubles~ 
"Our young players will really have to step in and c;leliver," says Bayliss. ';We play one of the top schedules in the country this .season and· We will need the young guys atkey spots," 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 
1993.-94 Angers, France Dublin, Ireland Fremantle, Australia lnnsbruck, Austria Mexico City, Mexico Nagoya, Japan Santiago, Chile Toleclo, Spain 
Application Deadline has been extended to January 22, 1993 Don't Miss the Chance of a Lifetime 
For more information, contact: International Study Programs 420 Main Building 
2n:39~5882 
Happy Birthday Bear! 


It is usually assumed that top quarterbacks are picked by Mi­ami, rather than pick Miami. But last year's top recruit, Chris Walsh (brother of Steve) is ready to assume the mantle for the Hurric:mes. 
With the loss of the entire 

backfield this year, it will be a big recruiting year for the Irish. But no positiotl is quite as important as quarterback, and if Notre Dame lands Powlus, that's one position that will be set for a while. 

One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, 
Practice practicing lawyer  with Kaplan now--so later.  you  can  be a  
Sign-up  now for PHONE:  the February 272-4135  LSAT  cla ss!  

KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat question. 

Friday, January 15, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Swimming teams ready to tackle weekend challenges 
Back from Tempe, women face Northern Illinois
Men kickoff season tonight 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team will open the new year with two dual meets this weekend. The Irish will face Purdue University tonight at 7p.m. and Northern Illinois University on Saturday at 2p.m. 
The Irish are returning to Rolfs Aquatic Center after two successful away meets. 
Previous to the semester break, Notre Dame traveled to the National Catholics Swim­ming and Diving Champi­onships in which they placed first over more than six other Catholic universities. 
The swim team then re­turned to South Bend this weekend following their annual two week training trip, this year in Arizona. As well as training 4-5 hours every day, the Irish competed in an invitational meet at Arizona State University, in which they captured the second place spot. 
"The training trip this year was very thorough. I felt we had a great balance between dry land and water workouts. We were very pleased with our second place finish in the invitational. and we're excited to get back to the regular season meets and see how things develop," stated head coach Tim Welsh. 
"This weekend is an impor­tant test," according to Welsh. 
Notre Dame last met the Boilermakers in the fall of 1991 at an invitational at the University of Illinois. 
"They will be a very big challenge for us," Welsh said of Purdue. "They have a very fast group of guys, but we want to keep swimming against the tougher teams in the midwest, because we want to establish ourselves here." Northern will provide a good meet as well, although Notre Dame has won the meet for the last three years. 
The Irish will be looking for three things this weekend. "First, we want to know how fast we are following the training trip and how well we retained our racing skills," Welsh said. "Second, how quickly will we recover from the meet on Friday to race on Saturday? And third, where we do we need to direct our attention after the meet?" 
"We're looking for good meets against both teams. We want to see great efforts :md good performances," said se­nior co-captain John Godfrey. 
.... 
CELEBRATE WITH US! OUR CHINESE NEW YEAR 
Featuring: 
NIW YEAR DINNIR BUf.IT 
(Served Once a Year} 
Monday, Jan. 18 to Sunday, Jan. 24 
(Regular menu also avaitable during and oftvr bvfftt.) 
TIME: Mon.-Thrus. 5·9, Fri. &Sat. 5·10, Sun. 5-9 
RESERVATIONS: For Groups 
S & Up 
Call 255-6868 
hJ til 
~CIICNI-(jallder& 
Cltiltls~ R~staurtlnt 
313 W. MelOn Ave. Mishawaka 

Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 ~ '94 school year Call 232 ~ 8256 for info and scheduled showings 

"Sweetness" headlines finalists for Hall 
the Irish will win. 
"Our depth as a team makes it difficult for a team like North­ern Illinois to beat us. NIU's team this year is very similar to their team last year, whereas our team has gotten stronger," noted Julian. 
Without being over-confident, the Irish women will swim a variety of events tomorrow. Distance freestylers will be sprinting, while the sprint freestylers will be swimming other events such as butterfly and backstroke. "We can't take this meet for granted, but we should win while giving every­one a chance to swim different events," said Julian. 
The focus of the meet this weekend, according to Julian, is to swim fast and prepare the team for the St. Bonaventure meet in two weeks. 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team returns to competi­tion this weekend with their first meet of 1993. The Irish will swim Northern Illinois Uni­versity on Saturday at 2p.m. 
After training for twelve days in Tempe, Ariz., the women swimmers are in top shape, and at the peak of their training for the second semester season. 
The Irish also competed in the Arizona State Invitational while training in Tempe. Notre Dame finished second out of seven teams, behind nationally ranked Arizona State. Head coach Tim Welsh said of the meet, "I was really pleased with the way we swam, and with the way we trained." 
"We are in real good shape 

Susan Bohdan 
coming off of training trip and we are ready to swim hard this weekend," said sophomore Jenni Dahl. 
Last year the Irish beat Northern Illinois 128-88, with only ten swimmers competing. This year Notre Dame is clearly the favorite, and is expected to dominate. Assistant coach Randy Julian is confidant that 
CANTON, Ohio (AP) -Walter Payton, the NFL's all-time rushing leader, along with coaches Chuck Noll and Bill Walsh, who won a total of seven Super Bowls, head the list of 15 finalists announced Thursday for induction into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
Joining them were offensive linemen Bob Brown, Larry Lit­tle, Tom Mack, Dick Stanfel and Dwight Stephenson, quarter­back Dan Fouts, cornerback Mel Renfro, defensive end Carl Eller, tight ends Jackie Smith and Kellen Winslow and wide receivers Lynn Swann and Charlie Joiner. 
Payton, Fouts, Noll, Stephen­son and Winslow were all nom­inated in their first year of eli­gibility. 
The finalists were determined by the hall's 34-member board of selectors. It will meet again Jan. 30 to elect the 1993 induc­tion class. 

Payton rushed for more than 1,000 yards in 10 of his 13 sea­sons with the Chicago Bears. His 16,726 yards and 110 rushing touchdowns are both all-time NFL records. Twice the NFL player of the year (1977, 1985), the Jackson State prod­uct topped 100 yards in rushing 77 times in his career. 
Noll led the Pittsburgh Steel­ers to Super Bowl victories in 1975, 1976, 1979 and 1980­more than any other NFL fran­chise. Over his 23-year coach­ing career, his teams were 209­156-1 including 16-8 in the postseason. 
He took over a team that hadn't won a title since joining the NFL in 1933. Sixth all time in coaching victories, he played 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cross Country ski equipment may be rented from RecSports at the Rock Thursday and Friday from 4:30-5:30 p.m., Saturday from 12-1 p.m. and Sunday from 4:30-5:30 p.m.. For more information, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
RecSports is offering courses and classes in scuba diving, water aerobics, and cross country skiing. The classes start January 20 so stop by the RecSports office in the JACC to sign up. 
Entries are being taken for campus racquetball doubles for men and women and co·rec volleyball, interhall team racquetball, and grad/faculty/staff volleyball. The entry deadline is January 20. Entries for campus indoor soccer for men and women, badminton doubles for men and women, and co-ree water volleyball and the interhall swim relays are due January 27. 
Saint Mary's varsity softball practice starts January 18 at 
6:15 p.m. in Angela. TQ.e practice is open to anyone who is interested in playing. Please bring physical forms. 
The Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting on January 20 at 7:30p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. All new members are welcome. If you have any questions, call Megan at 634-2784. 
The Badin Aerobathon will be held January 23 at Stepan Center from 9 a.m.-5 p.m.. Classes will begin every hour on the hour alternating between high impact and a combination of high and low impact aerobics. The fee is $3 for unlimited classes and all proceeds go to the Women's Care Center in South Bend. 
The Crew Team/Club will hold a meeting for all men's varsity and novice rowers on January 18 at 7:30 p.m. at a location to be announced. 
will be looking for their fourth straight conference win Satur­
Women 

day night at home against Loy­continued from page 20 ola. The Irish own a seven­game winning streak over the Notre Dame improves to 7-5 Ramblers dating back to the 
and 3-1 in the MCC, and they 1988-89 season. 
guard for the Cleveland Browns for seven years and was an NFL assistant nine years before building the Steelers' dynasty in the 1970s. 
Walsh took over a San Fran­cisco 49ers team that was 2-14 the year before and won the Super Bowl in three years. Un­der Walsh, the 49ers won the Super Bowl in 1982, 1985 and 1989. Currently the coach at Stanford, Walsh was 102-63-1 in 10 years with the 49ers. 
Fouts passed for more than 40,000 yards and 254 touch­downs for the San Diego Chargers. Two of his favorite targets were Joiner and Winslow. 
Joiner, who spent most of his career with the Chargers and also played for the Houston Oil­ers and Cincinnati Bengals, had 750 receptions in 18 seasons. Winslow, who spent all of his nine seasons with the Chargers, had 541 catches in his career. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
good shots, keep Michigan off the offensive boards, and prevent them from making second shots. MacLeod hopes that by not backing off and playing mostly man-to-man on defense, his team will do this. 
He also hopes that matching bigger players such as Billy Taylor, Carl Cozen, or Malik Russell up with Michigan's tal­ented 6'8" point guard Jalen Rose, who averages 15.1 points a game, and switching Ryan Hoover onto the smaller Jimmy King (6'5") will help the Irish. 
The team that the Irish face is almost the same team that downed a very different Notre Dame squad 7 4-65 last season. This year, however, the Wolverines have one more year's experience, the experi­ence of an NCAA tournament, and the experience of already beating three ranked teams this season (North Carolina, Kansas, and Purdue). 
"We need to keep concentrat­ing on rebounding and de­fense," McGraw explained. "We've been shooting the ball well and we didn't turn it over too much tonight and that's what we have to do Saturday." 
page 18 The Observer Friday, January 15, 1993 
Streaking hockey team set for pivotal CCHJ~ matchu~>s 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team 
rides a three-game winning 
streak into this weekend's 
games against Miami of Ohio on 
Friday night and Kent State on 
Saturday night at the JACC. 
These games are part of a six­game homestand which began with a two-game sweep of Ohio State last weekend. The overall series between Miami and the Irish is tied at four-apiece, while the Irish hold a 13 to 8 edge with Kent. 
Notre Dame (6-13-1; 4-11-1 in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association) movnd into a tie for eighth place in the CCIIA with last weekend's sweep. In their last 12 games. the Irish are 6-5­1, but they have won 4 of their last 5. 
With Irish head coach Ric Schafer tending to a family cri­sis, Irish assistant eoaehes Tom Carroll and Jim Johnson might handle the coaching duties this weekend because Schafer's re­turn is questionable. 
Carroll credited the team's hardwork for their recent suc­cess. "Our tremendous work on and off the ice has started to pay ofT and we've gained some dividends." noted Carroll. 
"We must capitalize on our success and continue to win," he added. 
Miami University comes into Friday night's game ranked fifth in the nation, leading the CCHA with a 13-6-3 record. The Red­skins are coming ofT a weekend in which they gained three points from nationally-ranked Lake Superior State. 
The Ohio school is led by All­American candidate Brian Sav­age. Savage, a junior center, has scored 19 goals and dished out 11 assists. "We must contain Savage as well as their other key weapons," said Carroll. 
Ohio's other weapons include senior defenseman Joe Cook (6 goals, 17 assists), senior for­ward Chris Bergeron (8 G. 19 A) and sophomore Matt Oates (8 G, 12 A). 
Carroll cites Miami's hard work as their key strength. "They have great team speed; they take advantage of opportu­nities and are a very disciplined team," said Carroll. In order to counter their speed, Carroll stated that "we must limit our mistakes in the neutral zone." 
Miami took two victories from the Irish when the teams met at 
Goggin Arena earlier in the 
season (Nov 6-7). However, the 
Irish have improved dramat­
ically since that time. Seniors 
Curtis Janicke, Eric Gregoire 
and Dave Bankoske have in­
creased their production con­
siderably. 
Janicke, last season's top 
scorer, has six goals and 13 as­
sists in the last nine games. 
Gregoire, a senior defender, has 
been a defensive stopper and 
Carroll cites his play as a key to 
their success. The other senior, 
Bankoske, sat out all last 
season with an injury. However. 
he has come on strong recently 
with eight goals and six assists 
in his last 10 games. 
"Our seniors have increased 
their production and we need 
them to step up again this 
weekend," commented Carroll. 
Another reason for Notre 
Dame's surge has been the 
consistent play of freshman 
Jaime Ling. Ling is the leading 
freshman scorer in the CCHA 
and is ranked tenth overall in 
the league scoring column. 
The biggest surprise for the Irish has been the reemergence of junior goaltender Greg Louder. Louder. out of action for two weeks in mid-November, was named the CCHNMichigan Hockey Magazine Defensive Player of the Week for his per­formance last weekend. His re­sponse to his improved play is reserved. "It feels good to come back and play well for a string of games," said Ling. 
As for this weekend, he feels the Irish "need to keep up the pace and play as well as last weekend." Carroll and the rest of the coaching staff is elated with Louder's play. "It gives us four goalies who are comfort­able between the pipes," stated Carroll. 
Although Miami is a national power, Carroll is taking it in stride. "It's just like any other game-we need the two points and a win would move us up in the standings," said Carroll. The players are confident as Louder noted that, "We want to keep going from here." 
As for Saturday's game, Kent State, with a 7-10-3 record, does not possess the same fire­power as Miami. However, the Golden Flashes swept 2 hotly contested games from the Irish back in October and Carroll knows the revenge factor will be evident. "We could have won both games and we're anxious for another chance to prove ourselves," noted Carroll. 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 
'EM FRIDAY 

SATURDAY 
Hockey vs Kent JACC Ice Rink 7:00 PM * Women's Basketball 

vs Loyola --Chicago JACC 7:30 PM* *Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
Kent. tied for eighth place in Irish assistant coach Jim the CCHA, is led in scoring by Johnson calls them, "a good sophomore center Claude Morin defensive team with a blue col­(12 G, 18 A). Classmate Dean lar attitude." As for the Irish's Sylvester is close behind with approach, "we must use our 20 G and 8 A. Also. Kent goalie quickness and speed to counter­Scott Shaw has a sparkling goal attack and get goals in transi­average of 4.45 per contest. tion." 

Junior goalie Greg Louder's outstanding play in the pipes has been a key to the Irish's late resurgenco. The Acton, Ma., native has been named the CCHNMichigan Hockey Maoazine Defensivve Player of the Year. 

LATE NIGHT OLYJ\1PICS VII 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 29,, 1993 8 P.M. -4 A.M. JOYCE ACC 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COU:\ITY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 


AWARDSOONATEOJYN)T"R£ DAME ALUMNI A9JXIATDN • POSTii.RSPRINlEDBY AVE MARlA I'RE95 • CON'!i~INCXXlPEJI.ATION'WITHl.NIVF.R!IlYFOOO SliRvrPS 
The confidence of the Irish is at an all-time high and they are itching to knock ofT two confer­ence foes this weekend. Earlier in the year, the Irish wanted to be competitive. now they want to win. 


r. 
-~ ----~­
. -. ·,, •rir-· ,. _,-~ 
l!t
Today 


Friday, January 15, 1993 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

I D\Df\lf COME GV\ 1-\ER,E: TO WOR.I( .1 I CAME OVT \-\ERE Tt RIDE A~D 
1-\fl.IJE FVN.' \ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Fence stake 
........wlli!E: .--.-,..=.,,..+::-+.;.-F-i 10 "Rio Rita" star: 
II! 1929 
~Jl~j~~~~~11 Tied 
~ 12 Material for ~:,:+:~=-1-=+-=--1-.::..j.:....l ceramics .:..:.+~.:...+:.~~ 16 Punches up the punch ..::...L:.:.:J.:::.J..::.L:...J 18 Romaine lettuce 

• 

ave a nzce 
a 
•' 
50 Edomite's 
ancestor 51 Mother's whistler? 
53 Fold residents 55 Cleveland-to-Akron dir. 57 Where Ewa and Kahuku are 58 Oo-la-la leading lady of the 30's 61 Maverick aka James Garner 62 Crosier 63 Aqueduct, to fans 64 Indonesia's -Islands 65 Calif. grunt 66 Sherbets' kin 
DOWN 

1 Me. city SW of Portland 2 Ariel's master 3 Quick appraisal 4Aiso s He waited for Godot 6 Deler's choice 7 Betoken a French article 
BILL WATTERSON 
Will, ~0\J CANT RIDE TilE SL£.1) IF ~0\J \)()~T CLIMB ~s ':f:> LA-7.'i 


23 City S of Green 41 Objective 50 That, in Taxco Bay 42 Welcome word 52 Gee 25 Peace Nobelist: at Killington preceders 1984 43 A Grimm brother 54 Taro root 27 Our lang. 44 P .G.A. star Mark 56 Nestling hawk 29 Sent back: Abbr. __ 
59 Name meaning 
30-Levant, 
45 Yon's partner "watchful" 
one of the 
46Haveno­60 Stat for 
Hyeres 
(dislike) Canseco
31 Root or Yale 33 Specious 37 Mesozoic Era 
Get answers to any three clues 
period 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
38 Maltreatment 

5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1204
39 Pt. of a word 

Regrettably, Professor DeWitt's boasting fell on too many jealous ears, and that night, as he stumbled from the bar, he was etherized by an unknown assailant and "relieved" of his trophy. 
DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL  
Today's Special: order of Twisty Breaa' with any purchase ofFREE $6.00 or more Valid at participating scores only. Not valid with any Call Now other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. OurND 271,0300 drivers carry less than $10. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. SMC 289,0033 © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.  

MENU 

Notre Dame 
Broccoli-Cheese Rice 
Casserole Veal Parmesan Grinder Baked Pollack Jardiniere 
CAMPUS 
Friday 
7:30 and 9:45p.m. Film: "Trust." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Saturday 
7:30 and 9:45p.m. Film: "Trust." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Saint Mary's 
Yankee Pot Roast Baked Sole DiJonaise Vegetable Burritos 
\. 
... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Lady Macbeth's problem 5-to (paved the way for) 10 Egyptian dwarf god 13 Ponte Vecchio spans it 14 Meadowlands, for one 15 Turpitude 17 Hepburn stage role: 1969 19 Kun or Bartok 20 Verb ending 21 Approximately 22 Paradisiacal 24 Seed cases 26 All-purpose truck 28 Draw out 
29 "Le -,"aria from "Manon" 
30 Actress in "Zorba the Greek" 
32 Horse 34 Kind of plaid 35 Leading, in 
match-play golf 36 Eye inflammation 40Wavy, in heraldry 42ln a perpendicular way 43 Noted "planes 
man" in 1991 47 Very small pin 48Ammonia 
derivative 49 U.K. military award 

Sports 
• 
.. 
page 20 


RICH KURZ 
Happy Happy, Joy Joy 
'Canes on the way out, prep QB hopefully on the way in 
So the reign of the 'Canes is over. 
That may not be news to most sports 
fans, but here's something to think 
about. 
or the four national championships 
Miami has won in the past 10 years, 
three of them came at the Orange 
Bowl, Miami's home field. ducking wor­
thier teams in the process. Think the 
home-field advantage and weak 
opposition had something ti> do with 
those New Year's Day victories? After 
the drubbing the Tide gave them in 
front of 50,000 screaming Alabama 
fans, it seems pretty likely. 
So congratulations to the bowl eoalition for forcing the Hurricanes to take on the Tide. Without the coalition, Miami probably would have stayed at home and cruised to yet another championship. this one undeservingly. 
Speaking of the Sugar Bowl, Gino Toretta showed the Heisman Trophy voters what the rest of us knew all along-he's not a very good quarterback. A good line and great wide receivers covered his fat tail all year long. 
If anybody else hasn't noticed it yet, Miami doesn't deserve it's reputation as Quarterback U. Sure. they turned out Jim Kelly and Bernie Kosar, both All­Pros, but since then, their track record has been less than stellar. 
Vinny Testaverde can't keep his starting job for the hapless Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Steve Walsh is riding the pine for the Saints. and Craig Erickson has disappeared off the face of the planet. 
The high-school quarterback of the year, Hon Powlus of Berwick, Penn., the same hometown as former Irish back­up QB Jake Kelchner, now at West Virginia, is busy making his college visits. 
This weekend he'll come out to snowy South Bend to have a look around. Powlus is a big kid, standing 6­3 and weighing in at over 200 pounds. with a cannon arm. He led his high school team to the Pennsylvania state championship as well as the number­one ranking in USA Today's poll of high-school teams. He's also an ac:ademic All-American. 
Powlus has narrowed his choices to Notre Dame, Miami. Penn State and Pitt. Powlus would be a good match for the Irish. lie has the academic skills to do well twre and take advantage of an outstanding education. something the other schools can't ofl'er. 
The Irish will give him a chance to win the starting role right away, and at most lw would only have to sit for a year until Kevin McDougal graduates, while getting th1~ benefit of an established tradition. 
see POWLUS I page 16 
INSIDE SPORTS 
• 
Hockey hosts Miami and Kent see page 18 

• 
Men's and women's swimming see page 17 

• 
NFC and AFC Championships see page 15 


Friday, January 15, 1993 

Fencing opens season against OSLJ this weekend 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
returning to a regular .lohnsson and Geoll' Pt~chinsky Sports Writer practice schedule on Tuesday. will fence two and lhree in the epee event. 
The Notre Dame fencing Men's head coach Mike squad opens the season this DiCicco is optimistic heading For the women, top fencer weekend in Evanston, Illinois into this op1ming meet After Maria Panyi from Hungary with two days of competition several pre-season events, it will not be available to fence against several tough oppo­appears that his top fencers as her eligibility is yet to be nents. Last year's NCAA sev­are prepared to open the confirmed by the NCAA. enth-place finisher Wayne season well. This weekend's Freshman Claudette de Bruin, State brings·its outstanding number one fencers will be senior Kathleen Vogt and team. featuring a women's captains James Taliaferro in junior Kimberly Arndt will be squad that promises to the sabre event, Jeff Piper in called upon to lead the contend for the national the foil event, and Grzegorz women foilists. championship this year. Wozniak in the epee. 
How well the women can

Grzegorz Wozniak 
Also participating in the Chris McQuade and Bernie fare without their leading meet will be a tough Cal State national champion Temple. Baez will fill the two and fencer and how the Irish's Long Beach team, MIT, Tri three spots for the sabre. Stan strong returners will perform State, Michigan State. and U. The Irish returned to school Brunner and Jordan Maggio in a tough early season match Cal San Diego. Finally, the on January 7th to begin three or Rich Kurz will hold those will be determined this women face defending days of dol'ble sessions before spots in the foil division. Per weekend in Evanston. 
Women's hO(lps destroys Detroit Mer,:y 
Oriosky's hot shooting paces Irish rout 
By JASON KELLY the second half. Sports Writer Notre Dame went on an 18-4 run in the first seven minutes of the second half 
It was cold and drafty inside the Joyce to open a 58-24 lead. Center Tuesday night. But the Notre "We played with a lot of intensity in Dame women's basketball team heated the first half and it continued in the things up with an 80-55 Midwestern second half," McGraw said. "In the first Collegiate Conference win over Detroit 30 minutes we played the best we've Mercy. played all year." 
Junior Sherri Orlosky got warmed up Bowen scored 10 points and collected quickly, scoring 11 of Notre Dame's first five more rebounds in the first ten 13 points, but the Irish couldn't shake minutes of the second half. She finished the Titans early in the game. with 16 points and 12 rebounds, leading 
With 13:45 remaining in the first half the team in both categories. It was her Detroit's Stacy Kraiza scored two of her fourth straight double-double and her game-high 24 points to tie the game at sixth of the season. 
10. That's when the Notre Dame surge "(Bowen) always goes after the ball began. and she had so many key offensive 
The Irish scored the next 14 points, rebounds," McGraw said. "She just and went on a 32-10 run to close the played a great game." first half and open the floodgates. The same could be said for most of 
"We shot the ball extremely well and Notre Dame's key players. Orlosky had only seven turnovers in the first half finished with 15 points, and junior Tootie and that helped us get the big lead," Jones came off the bench to score 11. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. The Irish also got solid play off the bench 
Senior Coquese Washington led the big from Stacy Fields and Carey Poor, who run with seven straight points midway finished with ten and seven points, re­through the first half. Sophomore Letitia spectively. Bowen also got into the act, twice "Carey has really been working hard assisting Carey Poor and scoring six and she proved that she can score points of her own in the first half to go inside," McGraw said. "She can be a big along with seven rebounds. part of our offense." 


"This team plays with a lot of As usual, Washington was a big part of confidence. and it's spreading around to the offense, scoring 10 points and 
The Observer/John Bingham 

everyone," Bowen said. dishing out a game-high eight assists. 
S13nior guard Coquese Washington
Their confident play continued early in 

see WOMEN I page 17 contributed 10 points in last night's w1n. 
Men set to challenge Webber and mig1hty Wolverines 
By BRIAN KUBICKI miss a shot and get the ball back, " said Sports Writer MacLeod. "They will crash the offtmsive boards." 
Notre Dame has the reputation of Crashing those boards will be national playing by the rules. This weekend, stand-out, Chris Webber. who leads however, the men's basketball team Michigan with 9.7 rebounds and 20.3 would like to break just one points per game and fellow-sophomorP law-Murphy's. .Juwan Howard. pulling down 6.9 
Not only do the Irish have to travel to rebounds and putting in 14.6 points a Ann Arbor to face the second-ranked game. Michigan Wolverines, who will be As much as the coach worries about pumped up after losing to Indiana on his opponent's rebounding, it is their Tuesday, but Notre Dame's leading del'ense that most impresses him The scorer and rebounder, senior Monty Wolverines have held their opponents to Williams, may not even play. If anything a 40.3% shooting percentage and else can go wrong, the Irish sure hope it blocked 84 shots to 3:~ by the opposition. won't. Webber leads them again with 46 blocks 
Coach John MacLeod said the forward this year. may not practice today or play in "People do not talk about it, but you've Saturday's match-up. According to got to credit (Michigan head coach MacLeod, Williams slipped on a wet Steve) Fisher. lie has them playing team floor during Tuesday's Stanford game defense," MacLeod said. "They do have and "did the splits". The actual nature of individual talent, but they mesh." the injury had not yet been determined Despite these obstacles, MacLeod has at press time. not conceded the game to Michigan. "We 
The loss of their leading rebounder know what we're up against, but are we and scorer is even more damaging since gonna try? The answer is shoot yeah the Wolverine's strengths are their we're gonna try." rebounding and their defense. "Michigan What the Irish will try to do is work for is a powerful team that has the ability to see 
MEN I pa!Je 17 







