
Thursday, September 16, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 14 THt INDFPFNDENT NFWSPAPEIZ. SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Speakers differ widely 
in the AIDS argument 
BY TRACY CRINION News Writer 
The third part in the Blessed Mother Lecture Series, "The Compassion of the Sorrowful Mother," held last night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium featured five lectures on AIDS by speakers from both Notre Dame and the local community. 
Father Thomas McDermott, director of Campus Ministries, said that the Feast of Our Lady of the Seven Sorrows was the ideal moment to bring to mind AIDS, "truly one of the great sorrows of the present day." McDermott felt that the feast should be used to show "love, quiet union and sympathy for those who suffer." 
Featured speakers were Fr. Ronald Raab of St. Joseph Parish, also chairman of the Religion Committee of AIDS ministries, Sr. Ethne Kennedy, associate director of AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist, Carol Seager, director of University Health Services, Professor Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law School and Dr. Robert Devetski, an infectious diseases clinician in South Bend. 
Raab, involved in AIDS min­istries for over seven years, urges people to "break open their hearts a bit more" to break through the walls of fear and silence surrounding the AIDS epidemic. For each of Our Lady's Seven Sorrows, he offered a fear regarding AIDS. 
Raab said he prays that those who have turned away from those in need will overcome their fears and show compas­sion. 
Kennedy offered an ecu­menical response to the AIDS crisis. The Catholic Network has over twenty-four groups that provide education, infor­mation and support for AIDS patients or anyone interested. 
While many cases of AIDS are contracted by means which the Church finds immoral, said Kennedy, "the AIDS experience confronts Christians with hu­manity, the meaning of life, the meaning of death," and there is much to be learned about God through compassion for the sick. 
Seager, University Health Services Director, spoke of a rising tide of change on campus with regard to the AIDS crisis. "We (UHS) used to go around on campus to speak about AIDS-and no one would show 
up... 
However, she said at the Notre Dame Student Activities Night, over sixty people signed up for Students With AIDS Training (SWAT) as volunteers willing to work with AIDS 
see AIDS I page 4 


Political columnist for Rolling Stone, William Greider, lectured last evening at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 

What most influences your pizza? 
Quality, Specials 5% The 
ristopher Mullins 


BY KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
A proposal to open a branch of Bruno's Pizza in the Huddle has recently been rejected by the Office of Business Affairs and University Food Services. 
Bruno's co-owner John Cataldo drafted and submitted the proposal in July after two meetings with Student Body President Frank Flynn. Although this proposal has been turned down, discussion over bringing outside vendors to campus continues. Currently, efforts are underway to create a survey to gauge cus­tomer interest in commercial vendors at LaFortune. 
"Originally, the intention was to sit down and talk about what we wanted, but there was no clear reasoning defending our choice of Bruno's. The University needs the research before they can make an investment," said Flynn. 
Bruno's proposal was reject­ed for a number of reasons, according to Dave Prentkowski, director of food services. 
"It would have been a finan­cial drain on Notre Dame. Our primary objectives are satisfy­ing the customer. Customer satisfaction is more than just bringing in a popular item. It's how much that item costs," said Prentkowski. 
see BRUNO'S I page 4 


Greider lectures ND on democracy 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT News Writer 
With concerned optimism and with a challenge for all Americans who hope for change, William Greider, politi­cal columnist for Rolling Stone magazine, presented the six­teenth annual Joseph Molony Memorial Lecture. 
"We have lost our set of op­erating principles which we call democracy," said Greider. This proposal, the thesis of his new book, "Who Will Tell the People: The Betrayal of American Democracy," capti­vated a packed auditorium yes­terday evening in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Greider identified a "crucible for the country," signals with which to contact those people both disenchanted and con­fused with the politics of mod­ern government. His discussion began by citing the end of the Cold War as a dispersal of the American spirits, united for so many years by. the former Soviet Union, a common enemy. 
He said the past forty-five years could be categorized as a period of "militaristic social­ism," during which time con­siderable amounts of the United States' time and resources were spent constructing an arsenal which is not helping us to fight, or at best peaceably coexist with, our new enemy. 

Greider said the restructured global economy, our newest and most complex adversary to date, exhibits two characteris­tics which, although fundamen­tal, are just beginning to ap­pear: the mobility of business capital and the immobility of la­bor. 
With the lowering of the Iron Curtain, and three billion peo­ple entering the global econ­omy's labor force, all business is in transition, according to Greider. He identifies the split of our society into two divi­sions. Those involved with cor­porate decision making and control, as well as the many established professionals, are finding these changes quite profitable while the rest of the labor force is adjusting to a declining level of prosperity, he said. 
American democracy is fail­ing, Greider said, as a result of the transfer of power in gov­ernmental decision making. To no one's surprise, the political parties of the United States have abandoned their primary responsibility to maintain the connection between society and the government which decides its condition. 
The key shift in political power has been to the multina­tional corporations, which, unchecked by a debilitated or­ganization of labor, has been "doing our politics for us," said Greider. The representation of varying interests, he said, is becoming more difficult be­cause the immigrant groups, predominantly Asian and Hispanic, are not embraced by the current power structure. 
Reviving democracy will be a long and difficult, though not impossible task, said Greider. A newly invigorated labor movement is necessary to "enforce shared prosperity" and unite the world's helpless into a core of political ideals. Corporations will remain a stumbling block as they consis­tently seek what Greider char­acterized as the "lowest com­mon denominator," the cheap­est labor and the least envi­ronmental and legal restric­tions. 
"If we don't work to pull the bottom up," said Greider, "the bottom will pull us down." American business must take care to train unskilled laborers for introduction into the work­place, because the rest of the world is already busy with ex­actly that task. 
Greider said to his audience that the changes which must come will be historical plateaus. A new civic duty has arrived hand in hand, he said, with a new global environment to "reexamine the conventional wisdom," whether it has passed from the previous generation or been confirmed by a media which has sold to the highest bidder. He challenged that all must be ready to evaluate what has come before and speak, with vision, of what is to come. 



------------~ -----­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 16, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
T-shirts -won't sell if Irish -win (or not) 

Saturday's victory over  
Michigan pleased everyone  
throughout the country,  
with two notable excep­ 
tions: the Michigan fans, of  
course,  and  the t-shirt  
companies.  
The t-shirt companies?  
Yep.  Brian Seiler  
They're not very happy,  Viewpoint Copy  
and they have good  rea­ Editor  
sons  not  to  be.  Notre  

Dame is now one big game closer to going undefeated and winning the national title. And you know what winning the national title means? Prestige? Glory? National recognition? No. It means t-shirts. 
Blue ones, green ones, white ones. The Bookstore even sells ... red ones? 
Naturally, you would think, a national cham­pionship for Notre Dame would make the t-shirt companies jubilant, for that's their cue to start churning out trendy t-shirts to Irish fans ever­where, even the red ones. 
But if Notre Dame goes undefeated, the most profitable shirts will go the way of the dinosaurs. They only show up when Notre Dame does not win the national championship. 

Those shirts, that require a river of expensive inks read like this: "Notre Dame beat Kalamazoo, and Kalamazoo beat Florida State, and Florida State beat Eastern Southern Iowa Tech Northern, and ESITN forfeited their last two games, so naturally, by all standards o logic, Notre Dame should be crowned as high and mighty king of the sport of football." These shirts are a gold mine for T-shirt manufactur­ers, both legal and illegal operations included. 
They also make me want to puke. 

Any school that has to whine like a starving baby about unfair rankings deserves to be ridiculed in the national spotlight. Talk about an inferiority complex! A great University should not have to tell everyone how great it is. 
That's part of the Notre Dame mystique. We have always been silent underdogs, not pitiful spoiled brats who burst into tears at the devas­tating calamity of being mis-ranked by a bunch of cigar-chomping, Irish-bashing AP tyrants. 
The underdog savors the flavor of victory much more deeply than the favorite. The University has always thrived on surprise, come-from-behind victories instigated by the underdog mentality to over-achieve. The "cry­baby" shirts work against the underdog ethos. Plus, nobody ever stands still long enough for me to read the damn things. 
So I guess I have to design my own shirt f?r you silly people to wear . You know what It will look like? No scores, no helmets, no nasty com­ments ~bout those Trojans, or those Hurricanes, or those Gators. 
Just plain blue with "Notre Dame" printed across the top in green letters. Below the school name it will have "Underdogs"written proudly in gold capital letters. 
And on the back? Well. it has to be something modest and simple, humble yet elegant. One word which says what we all feel.. .like a great big "NOT!" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Theresa Aleman T.J. Harris Corinne Doran Production 
Sarah Doran Susan Marx Jackie Moser 
Sports Jason Kelly Accent Be[h Regan Jennifer Habrych 
Graphics Viewpoint Chris Mullins Guy Loranger Illustrations Allison Ebel Charlton Warnke 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep1 during exam and v:aation l"'riods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Execution pace highest since 1962 
WASHINGTON 
States already have executed 32 prisoners this year, 14 in Texas alone, and more than in any year since 1962. The pace likely will quicken because federal courts are "more and more willing to let states pull the switch," one death penalty foe said Wednesday. 
When 31-year-old murderer Joe Louis Wise went to Virginia's electric chair late Tuesday, he became the 220th person executed in America since 1977. when Gary Gilmore's death before a Utah firing squad ended a 10­year hiatus for capital punishment. 
Last year there were 31 executions. 
"The death penalty is the violent response of a violent society to the violence it both fears and is fascinated by," said Herman Schwartz, an American University law pro­fessor. "Violence in movies and television is pervasive, so it must be a popular commodity. The death penalty represents revenge against vicious people whose exploits are portrayed in movies and on television." 
Schwartz called death penalty opponents "a feeble minority." 
Leigh Dingerson of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty called the rising numbers of executions "discouraging but not wholly unexpected ...The number of men and women on death rows is approaching 3,000. It's inevitable more of them will be exhausting their appeals." she said. 
Dingerson said the nation's courts have grown impa­tient with capital punishment disputes. "We're seeing more and more cases tossed out of the courts, especially federal courts, that would have been heard five years ago," she said. "The courts are more and more willing to let states pull the switch." 
Man involved in sting sues Perot 
DALLAS 
A California man sued Ross Perot on Wednesday, claiming the Texas billionaire never paid him for investi­gating reports of Republican dirty tricks allegedly played on Perot during last year's presidential campaign. 
Scott Barnes, a former police officer whose credibility has been questioned by authorities, said he told the Perot campaign that 41:he Bush-Quayle camp was trying to get tapes of Perot's conversations. 
The FBI mounted an undercover operation but said the decision was based on more than just information from Barnes, who the agency said it believed was "unreli­able." 
As part of the FBI investigation, an undercover agent told the head of the Bush-Quayle Texas campaign that he could give him secret tapes of Perot's conversations. The agent was rebuffed. 
At one point during the campaign, Perot said he believed the Republicans were trying to smear him and his family and disrupt his daughter's wedding. He said he briefly dropped out of the race because of the fears about the wedding. 
Former President Bush dismissed the allegations as "crazy." Barnes filed another federal lawsuit against Perot earli­er this year but dropped it. Perot spokeswoman Sharon Holman said she had not seen a copy of the latest lawsuit. 
"I would assume it's the same thing that was involved before, and there's just not a single shred of truth to sup­port what he's saying," she said. 
T\le lawsuit seeks unspecified damages. 
Barnes said that between May and November 1992 Perot had him "maintain covert contact with senior rank­ing individuals of the Bush-Quayle Re-election and Campaign Committee" to investigate dirty tricks allega­tions. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 16.
Thursday, Sept. 16 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperalure zones lor the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
ti'"""i. a ESI 0 ~ ~ll (} ~ u
[Til 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE' SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H L Columbus 66 59 Moscow 39 34 AUanta 91 72 Dallas 74 51 New York 90 70 
~..rlfL_. aiQ ~ 4 
Battimore  91  67  Jerusalem  91  66  Paris  64  52  
Boston  91  69  London  63  50  Philadelphia  89  70  
Cairo  95  73  Los Angeles  75  64  Rome  75  63  
Chicago  55  51  Madrid  79  57  Seattle  68  51  
Cleveland  62  58  Minneapolis  52  44  Washinglon D.C.  87  67  


Executions by state 
Rank State Executions 
Rank State Executions 

1. Texas 66 2. Florida 32 3. Louisiana 21 4. Virginia 21 5. Georgia 16 6. Alabama 10 7. Missouri 10 8. Nevada 5 
9. 
North Carolina 5 

10. 
South Carolina 4 


Source: NAACP legal Defense and Educational Fund AP/Brian Sipple 

Hijacked jetliner lands, air pirates surrender 
ULLENSAKER 

Grenade-wielding hijackers, believed to be Iranians, forced a Russian passenger jet to fly to Norway, then sur­rendered Thursday after authorities promised to consider their demand for political asylum. 
All passengers and crew were released unharmed, said government spokeswoman Kjersti Skjaerven. !ustice Minister Grete Faremo told a news conference m Oslo that 58 people in all were aboard the jetliner. 
The twin-engine Tupolev-134 was seized over southern Russia on Wednesday, outward bound from Azerbaijan. It stopped in Kiev. Ukraine to refuel, then landed at Gardermoen charter airport at Ullensaker. 25 miles north of Oslo. 
After hours of negotiations, four air pirates descended the steps of the Aeroflot jet smiling, with their hands in the air and jackets over their heads, government spokesman Gunnar Angeltveit reported. 
The jet had sat for hours in the dark, surrounded by ambulances, fire engines, and armored vehicles. About 300 heavily armed military and police troops were deployed at the airport. .. 
The Justice Minister said there were three hiJackers and "one presumed accomplice whose role in the hijack­ing is still not known." 
Three of the men sought asylum, but the fourth did not, Regional Police Chief Knut Austad reported. 
Another government official at the airport, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he saw all four with grenades taped to their bodies. Police said dogs were sent aboard the plane, parked near a forest, to search for explosives. 
The pilot, Capt. Mikhail Osavin, said the hijackers. had threatened the crew with hand grenades and explosives, said a Russian security spokesman, Alexei Zakharov. 
Ukrainian and Azerbaijani officials said the hijackers were Iranians, but Norwegian officials refused to say where the hijackers were from. 
11. Mississippi 4 12. Arkansas 4 13. Utah 4 14. Oklahoma 3 15. Arizona 3 16. Delaware 3 17. Indiana 2 18. California 2 
19. 
Wyoming 

20. 
Illinois 

21. 
Washington 



............~..~ ...... :. ·:·.:::·.•::· -=.-=..-::... 
Showers r-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloud)' Cloudy Via -ledp,.., Grophics/WII C1993 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
Thursday, September 16, 1993 





SMC's FUERZA to reorganize for ~993 
BYBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
FUERZA, Spanish for "strength," a multi-cultural or­ganization at Saint Mary's has reorganized after disbanding one year ago to unite women of Hispanic backgrounds on cam­pus, according to Co-President Teresa Marquez. 
Founded by 1993 alumna Delia Garcia in the spring of 1992, lack of participation forced the group to dissolve during the 1992-93 school year. Under the leadership of co-presidents Marquez and Gloria Garza, the club is at­tempting to once again promote increased diversity in the Saint Mary's community and an understanding of a common cultural heritage within the group itself. 
"I know people don't want the stereotype that Saint Mary's is a homogeneous campus," Garza said. "We're different, but I think in one aspect we all have common backgrounds," she said in reference to Hispanic students. 
FUERZA aims to give mem­bers a sense of belonging that is often hard to find on campus, according to Marquez. 
"It's very difficult being a mi­nority, or what you would (call) a person of color on this cam­pus because there's not as many people that understand where you're coming from," Marquez said. "Sometimes when you're with people of your same culture it makes you feel stronger, it makes you feel a little more comfortable in what you're doing." 
By focusing on both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munities, FUERZA is trying to change some of the perceptions about students from both schools. 
''I'm trying to make sure we forget about the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's "stigma" and remember that we're just Hispanics and we're all here trying to get a higher education and we're all trying to do some­thing better for ourselves as a people," Garza said. 
FUERZA will hold an organi­zational meeting at 6:15p.m. in the Holy Cross Hall parlor to plan activities for the year and involvement in community ac­tivities. 
"The basic premise right now is to get ourselves strong, situ­ated as a club on campus, make ourselves known, and give the underclassmen the opportunity to feel out what they want to do and make it stronger so that (FUERZA) will be able to stay a club for the following years," Marquez said. 
The Observer • NEWS 
Gunmen wound 11 

U.N. people 
By G.G. LABELLE 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
Gunmen wounded 11 people inside U.N. peacekeeping head­quarters in the Somali capital on Wednesday, and helicopter­borne American forces killed two Somali militiamen in a sep­arate encounter. 
Italian U.N. peacekeepers also suffered casualties when 
they  came  under  fire  
Wednesday  evening  at  
Mogadishu port,  said  Maj.  

David Stockwell, a U.N. mili­tary spokesman. He said he had no details, but uncon­firmed reports said one Italian was killed and another serious­ly wounded. 
Other mortar attacks by Somalis killed a Somali child and wounded 17 other Somalis, 
U.N. peacekeepers said. 
The State Department, mean­while, warned Americans not to travel in the country after receiving reports that Somali warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid has ordered his militia to take U.S. citizens hostage if he is captured. 
Stockwell said the daylight mortar attacks could signal a new phase of the assault on U.~. peacekeepers. He noted that mortars have often been fired at the U.N. compound, but only at night. 
Stockwell said the attackers who fired on the U.N. com­pound Wednesday were be­lieved to be followers of Aidid. They are blamed for previous attacks that have killed 48 peacekeepers and wounded more than 175. 

page3 

COURSE SURVIVAL COURSE. 
Get the most out of your study time by focusing on what you ~ need to know. Cliffs StudyWare" has the most comprehensive course review pro&rams a:-ailable for your computer. Get a fnee Test Surv1val Kit, details at: 
• 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore On The Campus 


Associated Press 
NEW DELHI Suspected tribal insurgents in northeastern India lined up 
Happy 21st Birthday 
TOM 
We Love You! 
Mom, Dad, John, Mary, & Muppet 
Tickets available at the Info. Desk at LaFortune 




IN CONCERT 

Students $8 General $15 

mJDINI'UNIOHBOAltD 
The Observer/Alan Smith 

Give them a hand 

Sophomore Brian Crossen and junior Damian DeFazio work on a project for their sculpture class. The two are constructing a replica of a hand out of wood. 
Rival guerillas gun down 87 tribal people in India 
people of a rival tribe and raked them with gunfire, killing at least 87. a news agency re­ported Wednesday. 
The massacre in the remote hilly state of Manipur. on the border with Burma, occurred Tuesday night, United News of India said. The region is 1,500 miles east of New Delhi. 
Police suspect militants from the outlawed Nationalist Socialist Council of Nagaland who want to set up a separate nation comprising parts of Manipur and the neighboring Indian state of Nagaland. 
The guerrillas, from the Naga tribe, surrounded a village in­habited by Kuki tribespeople at dawn, dragged the men out of their huts, lined them up and shot them, Manipur's police Deputy Inspector General W. K. Lenjun was quoted as saying. At least 87 people were killed. 



2. 5 cubic Dormitory Refrigerator 
$45 for the school year limited quantities 

Burns Rent-Ails Inc. 332 W. Mishawaka Avenue Mishawaka., IN 259-2833 
Thursday, September 16, 199'3'· 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 

Bruno's 
continued from page I 
The Huddle now operates 
with the intent to break even according to Prentkowski. Any ~rrangement with a third party mtroduces the goal of making a profit and may increase prices he said. ' 
"If you allow a company to come in and run it, they're not going to be in the customer ser­vice mode," said Prentkowski. 
"We don't have to have a sur­plus and we don't want to zero out. We're not in the business to make a profit, and we know for a fact that students don't want prices to go up." -
Prentkowski cited a food ser­vices survey taken last October to support his claims. 
Prep_ared by Jill Riggs, project ~oordmator, the survey was mtended to gather information about current and potential Huddle customers. 
According to the survey, 76 percent of students said that price was the biggest influence in their pizza buying decisions. ~n the long run, the University IS concerned that students will no.t be willing to pay higher pnces for food if commercial vendors are brought to the Huddle, Prentkowski said. 
"The only thing that Bruno's has going for it is that it is known by current Notre Dame students and they have quality product. But is there enough new revenue?" said Prentkowski. 
The initial draft of Bruno's proposal asked that Notre Dame supply any non-food products, some new equipment utilities, and beverages to th~ operations, and also employ students to work each shift. Bruno's would furnish the ~anagers as well as the ingre­dients for the pizza. 
The pioneer menu would only have pizza, but Bruno's would later expand to ravioli or other pasta. Although prices were not determined in this propos­al, Bruno's suggested that the University receive 30 percent of the revenue and Bruno's the remaining 70 percent. 
Flynn acknowledged that the initial proposal was clearly a first draft and was "obviously slanted towards Bruno's." 
"They had no clue what the University wanted," said Flynn. 
.~runo's presented its propo­Sition on July 15 after it was approached by Flynn and given a tour of the Huddle facilities. The plan to bring a commercial yendor t,o LaFortune originated m Flynn s campaign for student government president last year he said. ' 
A Student Senate task force on university food services was established at the end of the 1992-93 school year, and efforts to set up meetings with Bruno's followed. 
Flynn then sent the proposal to Vice President for Business 
Affairs James Lyphout's office, who subsequently gave it to Prentkowski for evaluation. 
"We didn't really consider it a proposition we wanted to pur­sue," said Lyphout. "I think we really need to look at why stu­dents are interested in off-cam­pus restaurants. I think stu­dents go off campus to get a change of scenery and also to purchase alcohol. They can't do that on campus." 
Prentkowski echoed Lyphout's concern. 
A Bruno's operation at the Huddle may not be as success­ful or popular as the off-cam­pus restaurants because of the need to escape from campus he said. ' 
"Our research shows that people go to Bruno's because it's a getaway," said Prentkowski. . According to Cataldo, during Its 17 years of operation~runo's h~s successfully estab~ lished a sizable clientele in the Notre Dame community. He credits the family atmosphere and the quality of the Bruno's products for its success. 
"When we heard about this, w? were very excited about it. Its just a huge opportunity. Bruno's could create a different atmosphere in LaFortune," said Cataldo. 
The student senate task force is preparing to work with food services and a marketing grad­uate student on a Huddle sur­vey. 
"You can find out a lot from a survey. We may find out that the menu itself needs to be changed, not necessarily that we need to bring in outside vendors," said Lyphout. "[The idea) is not inherently bad, but we JUSt have to make sure we know what we're getting into." 

AIDS 
continued from page 1 
Patients. 
UHS movement for AIDS testing, the sale of AIDS victim ID bracelets by student gov­ernment, and other trends on campus mark increased toler­ance and sympathy for victims of the fatal disease, according to Kennedy. 
Rice spoke on aspects of legal discrimination against AIJ?S patients, saying that while AIDS patients deserve compassion, intra-venous drug users and homosexuals are generally not legally entitled to the rights granted to others. 
Citing Bible passages and a statute passed by King Henry VIII against homosexuals, Rice supported legal discrimination against homosexuals, whether they have AIDS or not in the military, day care, adoption and foster care. 
"Homosexual relationships cannot be put on the same par with married heterosexual cou­ples without undermining the American family," said Rice. 
Devetski, a South Bend infectious diseases clinician showed slides portraying the terrible growth of AIDS since the first officially reported case in 1981. The total number of AIDS cases has increased from 35,238 in 1989 to 47,106. 
Other disturbing increases in AIDS cases, said Devetski, are where the child contracts the virus in the womb of the moth­er (perinatal). He said that since 1989, perinatal cases have increased 27 percent. Cases where the victims were not aware of any risks they had taken to contract the virus have increased 88 percent, he added. 

10140 McKinley • Osceola, IN 46561 219-679-4992 10-7 Monday-Friday • 9-5 Saturday 
If 2,000 students agreed to give up one meal each week, we could raise over $25,000 for the hungry this semester. 
ONE MEAL A WEEK. 
THINK ABOUT IT. 
Call Diane at 4-4253 and leave your name and ID number. Thanks! 

Tug-of-war develops in Middle East over peace 
By SALAH NASRAWI 
Associated Press 

TUNIS 
Palestinian opponents of 
Vasser Arafat's fledgling peace deal with Israel pursued their ·campaign against it on ~ednesday, hoping to overturn 1t by democratic or violent 
means. 

~r~fat, facing the deepest 
spht m the Palestine Liberation 
Organization since it was 
formed nearly 30 years ago, re­
turned to his headquarters and 
called immediate meetings on 
how to rally support and heal 
the leadership rift. 

His return came two days 
after he signed the landmark 
peace treaty with Israeli Prime 
Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 
~a~hington. The accord grants 
hm1ted self-rule to Palestinians 
in the Israeli-occupied Gaza 
Strip and the West Bank town 
~f Jericho and sets up a 
timetable for expanding auton­
omy to other areas and negoti­
ating a permanent agreement. 
Opponents consider it seri­
ously flawed, complaining that 
it does not guarantee the ere­ation of an independent state ?r the return of refugees and Ignores the critical issue of the status of Jerusalem. 
~rafat. sch_eduled meetings With semor aides to discuss the crisis, PLO officials said. 
He also was to call meetings soon of the PLO Executive Committee, which has suffered five defections because of the accord, and the 18-member ruling Central Committee of his own mainstream Fatah faction. 
"God willing, it (the accord) will pave the way for similar peace accord on all Arab fronts," Arafat said on his re­turn. 
"It started with Palestine. Yesterday (Tuesday) it was Jordan, and later on it will be Syria and Lebanon," he pre­dicted. 
Two of the pact's staunchest opponents, George Habash and Nayef Hawatmeh, met in Tripoli with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi. Gadhafi has criticized the pact and has said in a nationally televised speech that Libya "will not keep quiet about this mockery." 



E.x'PRESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-LaFortune Student Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 prn Saturday, 8:00am-9:00 prn Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
~tl ESJl ~~ ~1) 
~ 0 

~ Spanish Mass r­
domingo, 19 de Septiembre de 1993 
11:30 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante 
Padre Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Sponsort!d byCampus Minostry Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora 




I .WI 
(?MPUSMINISTRY 
----~-~-~ -~ ~-­
1Thunday, September 16, 1993 
The Observer •INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Protesting farmers block the traffic around Paris 
By TERRIL JONES Associated Press 
PARIS 

Thousands of farmers dis­gruntled over a European­American trade accord blocked roads and rail lines around Paris with hay bales, cars and farm equipment Wednesday, disrupting traffic. 
The farmers vowed to block traffic again Thursday, after setting up 20 roadblocks and obstacles along major highways leading to Paris and blocking some train lines, including one high-speed TGV line, on Wednesday. 
The farmers are protesting an agreement reached last November between the 12-na­tion European Community and the United States on agricul­tural subsidies. 
Under the accord, EC gov­ernments will lower subsidies to farmers, reduce harvests of certain grain crops and cut ex­ports of subsidized agricultural products by 21 percent. 
The French government has threatened to veto the accord, but farm groups want to be sure it doesn't back down at a crucial Sept. 20 meeting of EC foreign and agricultural minis­ters called to discuss the EC­
U.S. accord. 
France argues the accord is unfair because it requires more concessions from the EC than from the United States, which refuses to renegotiate it. 
Agriculture Minister Jean Puech on Wednesday urged France's EC partners to reach a "clear, clean decision to reopen negotiations with the Americans." 
On Wednesday, about 10,000 farmers participated in the protest, said Jacques Laigneau, president of Rural Coordination, the grassroots group organizing the protest. 

Cuba announces it has a major farm reform plan 


[ENTER NOW!) 
IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL MEN'S.IH SOCCER GRAD/FAC./STAFF'SOCCER 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT. 8 DEADLINE SEPT. 16 ENTER IN THE RecSp01ts OFFICE, JACC 

CAMPUS GOLF SCRAMBLE 
TO BE PLAYED ON SEPT. 19 DEADLINE SEPT. 15 ENTERATTHE GOLF SHOP, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 

By JOHN RICE Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Communist Cuba took an­other step into market eco­nomics Wednesday, saying it will set up cooperatives on state land and let farmers share the profits. 
Cuba's Catholic bishops, meanwhile, came forth with their boldest criticism of Fidel Castro in decades and chal­lenged the government to make political as well as economic reforms. 
The cooperatives, announced on the front page of the Communist Party daily Granma, are the latest in a series of retreats from pure socialism. 
Castro is trying to shore up the economy, which deterio­rated sharply after Cuba lost its trade partners renounced Communism. 
"This is the first time the Cuban government steps back from an effort to expand state control over agriculture," said Jorge Dominguez, a Cuba ex­pert at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington, D.C. "Instead, it is creating an im­portant zone of independence." 
The party Politburo said co­operatives will be set up on state farms, using the land for an indefinite period. They will still sell all of their harvest to the state, which will tell them what main crops to grow and also set production goals. 
But the farmers will split the profits among themselves and will have a greater share in managing the enterprise, han­dling their own banking and buying materials on credit. 
"If they have long-term, in­defmite tenure, that gives them virtually all of the incentives that private ownership does," 
' 
Personal Assistants for active female Notre Dame student who needs assis.. 
tance in dressing, eating, hygiene and other daily life activities. Hourly wage and training provided. 



NOTRE DAME 
RECYCl.l/1' IRISH 



e IS 
ack! 
General Information Meeting Thursday, September 16 7:00PM at the C.S.C. 
Free tube socks to those who attend-maybe 
Questions? call 1-9013 
said economist Archibald Ritter, a Cuba expert at Carlton University in Ottawa, Canada. 
Most of Cuba's land is held in massive state farms. It was not immediately clear how much would be converted to coopera­tives. 
The announcement said the party hopes "to make agricul­ture more efficient ...by apply­ing formulas that motivate and give incentives to men ...to achieve greater volumes of pro­duction." 
It was a major shift from Cuban Communists' long efforts to boost output with moral exhortations rather than money. 
But Cuba's farm sector, like the rest of its economy, is in cri­sis due to a lack of fuel and fer­tilizer that once came from the Soviet Union and other allies. Critics claim it is also inefficient and mismanaged. 
This year's crucial sugar har­vest was the worst in 30 years and food production has not been enough to keep most Cubans from losing weight, even though the socialist sys­tem distributes food fairly even­ly. 
Castro announced in July that Cuba would be forced to move away from the socialist path it prefers in order to save its political system. 
Since then, Cuba has legal­ized possession of foreign cur­rency as well as a broad array of occupations that had been state monopolies. 
On Tuesday, the island's Roman Catholic bishops issued a 17 -page letter suggesting the government "should eradicate some irritating policies," such as "the exclusive and omnipo­tent character of the official ideology" and "the limitations imposed on self-liberty." 
Would-be President faxes home 
By FRANK AIGBOGUN Associated Press 
LAGOS 

The would-be president of Nigeria faxed his people a mes­sage on Wednesday urging them to be patient with his em­barrassing six-week absence. 
The extended stay abroad of Moshood Abiola, once heralded as the savior of democracy in this country, prompted his top supporters to leave Wednesday for London to persuade him to come back. 
The delegation is being led by his running mate, Baba Gana Kingibe, who has urged Abiola to return to the country to claim his mandate. 
Abiola's critics have used his absence to try to argue that he lacks presidential mettle. 
The wealthy publishing and transportation magnate was the apparent winner of the June 12 presidential election that was to return this nation of 90 million people to civilian government after a decade of military rule. 
Days after the election, dicta­tor Gen. Ibrahim Babangida annulled the results, plunging the nation into political paraly­sis and widespread strikes that crippled the economy. 
Babangida resigned under pressure on Aug. 26, naming a government of civilian support­ers that have scheduled new presidential elections on Feb. 19. 
Abiola left the country at the height of the crisis on Aug. 3 and has repeatedly reneged on promises to return home, say­ing he feared for his life. 
While away he has lobbied Washington and other Western governments for support. 
Call Tanya, 289.-0385 

ANNUAL STUDENT 
ART EXHIBIT 

NOVEMBER 1-15 
:ranlclp.ln!S must be ND/SHC studenrs .~nlly 2·dlmenslonal works accepted (max. size J'xJ') 
• m t two entries per participant 
E.1cllplece should be maued or mounted on !>Oster boa1<l 
:Works 111!151 be labeled on the back with IItie & artist Entries must be submitted by..QuQJ!filllo tl Student Activities Ofnce te 
Prizes~ 

Two IST Place prizes. $200 each 
Two 2ND Place prizes-$100 each 
&I'ONaORm IY: AlUMNI ASaoctAnoN AAT DEPARTMENT 
SNITEMU$~ 
"'"""""~ STUDENT ACTIVInES OFRCE ---;~ 
----.-~--..----------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 16, 1993 


Rights groups fault Clinton 
By SONYA ROSS AN«iared Press 
WASHINGTON 

Black members of Congress accused President Clinton Wednesday or failing to com~ bat rising American racism and said he lacks a civil rights policy. 
The politicians and other prominent blacks attending the Congressional Black Caucus' annual meeting also pointed to bittersweet census figures that told of solid edu­
Clinton seeks support for NAFTA around country 
By NANCY BENAC 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
With crates of potential ex­ports towering over him, President Clinton promoted a free-trade pact before friendly dockworkers Wednesday and bristled at all the attention be­ing paid to Ross Perot's coun­teroffensive. 
Visiting the bustling New Orleans port less than a year after George Bush made the same trip to promote the same trade pact -and his re-elec­tion -Clinton told a ware­house crowd: "This is a good deal. It's a winner. We ought to take it." 
In opening his fall drive to get North American Free Trade Agreement through a recalci­trant Congress, Clinton was clearly seeking to counter the rhetorical fire of Perot. 
Without mentioning the Texas billionaire by name. Clinton told his audience: "The people who are afraid of this agree­ment are quite well organized. Some of them have a dollar or two, as you may know. and they need to hear from you." 






GOP unveils Health Care plans for a deal 
By KAREN BALL 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Republicans in Congress pre­scribed their own health care plans Wednesday, pitching them as easier-to-swallow al­ternatives to President Clinton's that would gradually cover all Americans without forcing new costs on business. 
House and Senate Republicans outlined separate packages aimed at making it more affordable for the unin­sured to get coverage -but not requiring companies to pick up 80 percent of their workers' premiums as the White House package would do. 
Clinton will officially propose his reform package in a speech to Congress next week, but de­tails have been surfacing in ad­vance. 
About 20 Senate Republicans are supporting a plan by Sen. ·John Chafee. R-R.l., that aims to eventually force all Americans to purchase their own insurance. Poor people would get help through gov­ernment vouchers. 

cational progress among blacks, but dimmer prospects for a better life overall. 
The caucus said Clinton's positions on foreign policy, housing, crime and the North American Free Trade Agreement all pose problems for blacks. 
"It begs the question: Where are we as a people? And what flag of registry does this ship of state fly?" asked Rep. Kweisi Mfume, D-Md., the caucus chairman. ''We are, at this moment, a nation in grave distress." 
Timed for the caucus' gathering, the Census Bureau reported Wednesday that more black Americans got college degrees in the 1980s, but they still receive lower pay than white graduates for many jobs. · 
Census figures show the number of black men 25 and over with at least a bache· lor's degree rose from 7. 7 percent In 1980 to 11.9 per­cent in 1992. Among black women, the rate rose from 
8.1 percent to 12 percent. 
But the annual median salary for black college grad~ uates was $30,910. while the median salary for "'!hite col· lege graduates was $37,490. 
A larger proportion of white men than black men were employed in executive, administrative and manageri­al jobs, 32 percent to 26 per· cent. Black male college graduates in these fields were paid about 77 percent of the amount earned by white male college grads. 
Also, 30 percent of black families were poor, with unemployment rates for blacks running more than twice that of whites, 14 pet:· cent to 6 percent. 
"Our condition bas always been twoNfold: too much poverty, not enough selfN love," said Comel West, pro· ressor of black and religious studies at Princeton University. "We've been between a rock and a hard place since we've been here." 
That's why Clinton needs to take an immediate, firm stance on civil rights enforce­ment, said Lani Guinier. 



• 
(Offer expires only when you do.) 

Get an AT&T Universal MasterCard and you'll be eternally grateful. Because it's more than just a credit card that's free of annual fees forever. It's also an AT&T Calling Card that currently gives you a 10% discount on already competitive AT&T Calling Card rates. It's all part of The i Plan~~M 
To apply, come by our booth on campus or call ­

• ----­
1800 438-8627. 
-


AT&T 
Free Willy (PG) 1:45 4:15 6:45 9:00 
Hard Target (R) 
12:45 3:00 5:15 7:30 10:00 
2~~~~,:;g·J~~ 
The Secret Garden (G) 12:30 2:30 4:45 6:45 6:45 Sleepleaa In Saanla (PG) 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 True Romance (Rl 2:15 5:00 7:30 10:00 

Thursday, September 16, .1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page? 
Fugitive lived a mostly normal life
A Prospective Trade 
ByBOBBAUM Wednesday to reduced charges Coffee House, described her as 
Associated Press of manslaughter and armed a kind, loving woman. robbery. "If you had a problem and
Center juror biased 
CORVALLIS Her attorney, Rikki Klieman, you needed to talk to some­
Alice Metzinger, cook, restau­
By LARRY NEUMEISTER numbers only. 
rant owner, wife and mother, 
Associated Press When the judge asked him to took a deep breath at a going­
elaborate, he said, "They're 
away party for three dozen
NEW YORK guilty, hang them out in an is­friends and uttered the awful 
Bias and anger about the land someplace." He was 
truth she had concealed for 23 
bombing of the World Trade among several dozen jurors to years.
Center spilled over Wednesday tell the judge and lawyers why 
Back in 1970, she drove a 
during interviews with prospec­they wanted out. 
getaway car for a gang of
tive jurors, with one suggesting Transcripts of closed-door 
Vietnam War opponents who
the defendants be hanged. questioning of jurors at the 
killed a policeman during a
The second day of jury selec­heavily guarded federal court­Boston bank robbery. She had
tion in the conspiracy case house were released afterward. 
-evaded capture by hiding out in against four Muslim fundamen­''I'm convinced of the guilt of women's communes, then by
talists included several would­the defendants," said another starting a new life here in 1977.
be jurors with biases so strong possible juror. ''I'm ...Jewish, And now it was time to takethat U.S. District Judge Kevin I'm a Zionist, and major, a sub­
responsibility, she told her
Duffy lectured them before let­stantial contributor to Israel." 
stunned audience, and turn
ting them go. Other prospective jurors said herself in.
Even so, those who expressed they witnessed the chaos "It really floored me. Not the
fears and bias were in the around the Trade Center on 
crimes so much for me but that
minority and lawyers said they Feb. 26 when a bomb in a van she was able to hide it for soexpected jury selection to be tore a 150-foot-wide crater be­
long," said a co-worker,
completed next week. neath the second-tallest build­Lynette Adkins. 
"I am very biased," said one ing in the world. Six people of the potential anonymous were killed and more than 
The details emerged three 
jurors. They were identified by 1,000 injured. 
days later, in a Boston court­house on Wednesday. Metzinger's real name is Katherine Ann Power, 44, a 
A Tradition of Quality Food 
Italian · Mexican · American 
fugitive who spent 14 years on The Works Bar and Grill 
the FBI most-wanted list until located in the Historic Works Hotel 
investigators declared the case unsolved. "She reached a point in her


Make your reservations now 
life that she felt she needed to be truthful with the people that she knew," said another friend Marilyn Schwader. "She want­ed to reconnect with her fami­
for the weekend! Use your 
Student Savings Card for 10% 
ly." The decision to surrender
off all menu items!! 
was not a hasty one. Power IIAR&GHILL decided months ago to begin : negotiations with prosecutors. Charged with first-degree mur­
501 North Niles Avenue, South Bend 
der, she pleaded guilty . 237-9757 
suggested Power would spend less than five years in prison. Authorities declined to say whether they had agreed to seek a lenient sentence. Sentencing was set for Oct. 6. 
Power was reunited Monday with her parents and sister, Claudia. 
"We didn't know if she was alive or not," said her mother. Marjorie Power, 71, of Grand Junction, Colo. "It was a thrill. We showed her all the family that she hasn't seen. We had scrapbooks and everything." 
Power was a product of the late 1960s, when sentiment against the Vietnam War mush­roomed into a nationwide movement. Thousands joined in emotional and often violent street protests. Radical factions turned to bank robberies and bombings. 
Power admitted her role in the robbery of Boston's State Street Bank on Sept. 23, 1970. She wasn't there when the rob­bers took $26,000 from the bank, shooting to death Officer Walter Schroeder Sr. as they escaped. But she drove the "switch car," the second get­away car parked about a mile from the bank. 
Investigators found a cache of 
rifles, detonators and ammuni­
tion in her apartment. 

Those who knew her as Alice 
Metzinger in this languid col­
lege town, where she taught 
cooking at a community college, 
served as consultant to restau­
rants and cooked at M's Tea & body, you should always talk to Alice because she could always turn it around and make it so it wasn't so bad," Adkins said. 
Until recently, she was co­owner of a restaurant-bakery in nearby Eugene. She sold her share and gave most of the profits to a hunger relief char­ity, said her therapist, Lind. a Carroll. 
She also helped write text­books and was working on a book of recipes. 
"She was an absolutely out­standing employee," said Brian Brown, dean of college service at, Linn-Benton Community College, where Metzinger was an instructional assistant from 1985 through 1989. 
It was during a talk about the recipe book a year ago that Metzinger told Schwader the truth. "I just listened to what she was saying. It was obvious she needed to tell someone about it." 
But she left out the details, which are just now becoming public. 
Before moving to Oregon, Power had used three or four different aliases, her attorneys said. Then she found the name of a baby who had died about the time she was born. Using the baby's name, Alice Louise Metzinger, she obtained a birth certificate, then a Social Security number and a driver's license. 
Along the way, she had a son 
and moved to Oregon. The boy, 
Jaime, is now 14 years old. He 
learned of her secret just weeks 
ago. 





eyfelike 


Really, rehllycheap. 
'·};, 


Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
'AI'ailable lo quaiifJinll slulients. a/parllcipoling oulboriurl'Pfik Camf>us Resdlm. ©1993 'Pfik Comfi"'-' Inc. All righls """f!d 'Pfik, liJe 'Pfik Wg<;, Las~ Macm/osb, S/ykWrili!r onii '"/bepouer to be)<udJ<>I" are regislmd imdem~Jris of'Pfik Compuler. Inc. 
. . 

VIEWPOINT 

Gary Trudeau's Doonesbury, 

which appears on the bottom of this page. has a unique place among American comic strips. The various dead people, office workers, etc. of The Family Circus, Cathy, and other strips have to live back by the auto section, but Doonesbury's char­acters often appear on the edi­torial page. The feeling seems to be that they touch a nerve; the strip is a cultural barometer of sorts. 
That is why I was rattled by last week's storyline. I assume that a lot of people were, and that that accounts for its early dismissal; but for the record, here is what Gary Trudeau con­sidered a diverting misad­venture: Mark. one of the lead characters, is visited in a dream by an AIDS victim, who informs him that he may be gay. He is unsure. A crisis ensues. 
Trudeau milks the situation for sitcom-style gags. e.g. "Do 
Thursday, September 16, 1993 
a planet of women. 
Homosexuality is becoming a 
significant part of our society, 
and we're going to have to fig­
ure out how to deal with it. 
I for one would like to see 
some moral assimilation. If 
there's going to be homosexu­
ality on a wide scale in Amer­
ica, and there's going to be, I 
would like to see it at least keep 
pace with American mores. 
Things are slipping fast, but it's 
still more or less shameful to 
sleep with dozens of people a 
year. and a sex act per se is still 
nothing to boast about. The 
lovelessness which lies behind 
the gay lifestyle is what people 
find objectionable, a magnified 
mirror of heterosexual vice. 
Few decent people, I think, re­
ally have anything against real 
love, whatever its mode, when 
it seems to be true-or at least 
tries. . Josh Ozersky is a graduate 
student in History. His arlicle 
on underground comics ap­
pears in this month's issue of 
Zone. 

Women ofND/SMC Get Up, Stand Up! 
PO Box Q • ObseJver.Viewpoint1@ndedu 

you still like sports?" meant to show up the prejudices of lib­eral middlebrows. Mark says he isn't ready. J.J., Mike's wife, says she thought she may have been a lesbian. And so on. The whole episode is about as funny as hemorrhoids, and Trudeau was right to drop it. But it was typical of a well-meaning trend in recent years to minimize homosexuality by blending it into comics (Doonesbury), thrillers (The Crying Game), sit­coms, (the Seinfeld "outing" episode) and so on. And it never quite works. 
Because it's hard to figure out homosexuality. I realize that as a columnist, I am expected to weigh in with a cogent position, but I am as baffied as the next man. On the one hand, it's per­fectly obvious that homo­sexuality is no mere personality quirk or leisure activity. 
To an ordinary heterosexual, particularly a man, it wouldn't be too much to say that it is the worst thing in the world. For people born gay, the choices are either secrecy, fear, and fugitive intimacy, or (worse yet, from a social point of view) a place in the gay subculture, which despite the efforts of a few solid citizens still largely revolves around sanctimo­niousness, disease, and unbe­lievably squalid sex. 
Now, these are hard words, I realize, and I suppose that some Observer readers may find them abusive. But this is largely an expression of sympa­thy on my part; see what I have looming on the other side. 
As a Catholic, I am committed to more or Jess seriously con­sider Church teachings. The Church has no doubt at all about the place of homosexual acts. These acts are considered wrong and gravely sinful. The sooner homosexuals get on board for the big win, the bet­ter ofT the universe will be. But it's serious business to tell someone that they can never make Jove again. Serious enough when you have taken holy orders, and that much worse when you are only trying to muddle through the world like the rest of us. 
As with birth control, the Holy See offers the troops little in the way of explanation. Go to the papal encyclicals and ask why this terrible burden must be borne, and you are liable to get some answer along the lines of, "if we consider the nature of sex we find there is primarily a procreative as well as unitive function of human sexuality that marks it as analogous to ... " Pretty thin soup, but a papal encyclical is not something you can just blow off if you call yourself a Catholic. 
So here we are, with RuPaul on one side, and stern abstrac­tions where we need them least on the other. Compounding the problem is the almost bot­tomless mirth and contempt most men feel towards male homosexuality. Women seem to be Jess troubled by female homosexuality, for some reason or other. (Neither are men any too revolted by lesbianism; far from it, if the truth be known.) On a planet of women, maybe homosexuality wouldn't be a social problem. But this is not 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
A51NCOMIN6 Ff?E;SHM&N, 50M8 rF YOU MAY 8fi ,-rz}NN/J{) TO FIN{) HOW FI?AGT!OiE CAMPUS 
Ufe HA? DI3COM&. lJIF-fffiWT r;ruawr 6l<lXP3 t:ATA?AKT, 
5TUI7Y APART, "' --­
PARTYAPART, UVfi APAF<T... 
IJIV/3/?SITY, AWORTHYt(lllL.., HA? 
{)£i613Nf3RATW INTO H05Tit.e 5EPARATI5M-A STAT& OFAFFAIRS NO UN1~7Y 5HOUW70t&I?Alt! 
\ 
,......,.-,~ 

'' . .a NAKED Lunch is a frozen moment when everyone sees what is on the end of every fork. .." 
-WilliamS. Burroughs 


ACCENT 
Thursday, September 16, 1993 page 9 


ic ~lay 

By MARY GOOD 
Accent Writer 
Alas, real entertainment is rolling into town and you won't have to be twenty-one to enjoy it. 
This Friday night you will not need a fake I.D., only a valid college I.D., to jam to the cov­ers and originals played by the up-and-coming Indiana band, Oliver Syndrome. 
From 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. the band will be playing at Saint Mary's in the field behind Havican Hall. 
To top it all off, admission is free and refreshments will be available. All this thanks to the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board and Saint Mary's Student Government. 
This year Saint Mary's stu­dents are paying an increased student activities fee. According to Jill Hotek, Student Activities Board coordinator, this concert is a "direct result of the increased fee." The increase makes it possible for SMC Student Government to "bring such programs and con­certs." 
The event is expected to be a success Hotek said. 
It has been in the planning since MaryBeth Wilkinson was elected Student Body President last spring. 
It began as an idea prompted by Oliver Syn"drome's reputa­tion in the college circuit and their appearances at Heartland and a few other local night­clubs, according to Hotek. 
Over the summer Student Activities together with Student Government made it a realistic project that will pay off Friday night. 
Oliver Syndrome primarily plays for a college-age audience and they know how to enter­tain. 
Their song list includes the usual range of covers from Brown Eyed Girl to Suck My Kiss and Two Princes is not missing from the list. 
According to lead vocalist and keyboard master, Oliver Morris, in an interview with The Indianapolis Star, the band plays to a college following because, "They can be very loyal. They also talk among themselves substantially more than the 'townies' do." 
Oliver Syndrome has quite a 

The band is based in Indianapolis. Their gigs usually land them no further than five hours from home. They usually play no more than three or four nights a week. 
Their decision to abandon the rock star image and stick close to Indianapolis has allowed them more time and money to work with, according to Morris in an interview with Marc Allan. 
Morris is working hard to lead the band through a transi­tion from cover group to what he told The Purdue Exponent was "a real band". 
They have used their saved resources to build their own studio, Studio 512, in Indianapolis. At the studio they spend time rehearsing and cre­ating a sound of their own. 
The composition and the age of the group contributes to their popularity. 
For Oliver Morris, 24, this band has been his dream since he was 15 years old. He is responsible for getting the guys together and launching their careers. 
He is supported on guitar by David Edmonds, 25, whose 
-
experience lies in funk bands. Brent McNamara, 29, is the band's bassist, and Wade Parish, 23, does the drums. Parish's background also includes some time playing with thrash bands. 
This combination of talent is only beginning to bud as the .... Saint Mary's/Notre Dame com­munity will find out this week­end. . Although Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students love cov­ers as much as the next student body, they should also be look­ing forward to a sound uniquely Oliver. 
In January, Oliver Syndrome, released a disc called Say Something that was comprised of twelve of Oliver Syndrome's originals. These songs will be incorporated into Friday's out­door event. 
It is not often that such a ris­
ing rage comes to town, and on 
a football weekend no less. So, 
come on out to Havican Field 
with that college I.D. and your 
dancing shoes Friday night. 
At the rate this group is going, you will be lucky to someday be able to say that you saw them when. 
I 
-------~---­
---------~ 
' 
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 16, 1993I 
I r 
I 
' 
! 
-
Classifieds 

HOME-BASED &B ALLIANCE. 
NOTICES 

NICE ACCOMMODATIONS. 
271-D9B9 24 HOUR ANSWERING Typing MACHINE. 2B7-4082 
Undergraduate meeting Sunday BED & BREAKFAST IN HOME OF 
7pm glndlsmc. Kelly 2B9-4063. SAINT MARY'S STUDENT'S PAR­ENTS. CLOSE TO STADIUM. CALL 25811f935.
ILOST & FOUND I 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM ND/SMC EVENTS FROM A NECKLACE-VERY (219) 291-7153 IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777. 

FOR SALE 
LOST-OPAL PENDANT 
PLEASE PLEASE CALL 424B WORD PROCESSOR PANASONIC W-1510, $250 EXCELLENT CON­DITION 
Lost a disk-case with four 3-1/2 in. 2B9-2537 disks, on 9/6 (Mon), between DeBartolo and the Golden Dome ALARM SYSTEMS; CAR, HOME (prob'ly in 331 DeBartolo). The AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR disks are labeled ·me," •myself," INFORMATION CALL JASON @ "i," and "fonts.• Very important to 237·9702. me, please helpl Caii2B7-7696 if you've found them. BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS 
CALL COLIN AT 273·6205 
LOST:"192B' cross necklace on s 'B9 TOYOTA Corolla OX Wagon. 
quad 9/10 cail2344 Excellent condition. 5 speed, power steering & brakes, A/C, FM cassette, roof rack. 7Bk mi. $6400.

WANTED 

Call (219) 277-4422. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! 1990 NISSAN 240 SX, 5-SPEED, EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING LOADED, 13,000 MILES, MINT BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY B CONDITION. $11,000.271-1839. TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, '89 Sentra JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-B00-3B,OOO miles excel. cond. 67B-63B61 service records $5490 
call631·6414 

Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger, IN, hiring for: servers, bartenders, 100% pure cashmere $95 shawls, line cook. Exp. pref. but not nee. for $195 twin blankets, $250 queen info call272-7017 1-B00-42B· 7B25 X303. 
NEEDED 3 PITT TIX MICHIGAN STATE STUDENT TIX 
X255B TARA FOR SALE. WE HAVE THREE. YOU NEED SOME OR ALL. WILL DEAL. CALL BRIAN X3043 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­Make money teaching basic conver­sational English abroad. Japan, For sale -3 tickets for Garth Taiwan, and S.Konsa. Make up to Brooks. Oct. 9 (Sat.). Call 273· $2000-$4000+ per month. Many 8859. provide room & board + other bene­fits. No previous training or teaching carpeting, new, bound certificate required. For more infor­skyblue·10'x 11'-$90 mation call: (206)632-1146 ext. dark pink • 11' x 12' • $85 J5584 Brian T @ 2B9-6648 

TICKETS 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn up to $2D00-$4000 or more I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272-6306 
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREEl II NEED G.A.'S • 3 PITT, 4 USC, 4 Student Travel Services is now hir­FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe @ 1613. ing campus reps. Call @ B00-648­
4849. 
Will give first-born son for four USC GREEKS & CLUBS tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob 
at 273-D620. RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI For your fraternity, WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for 272·7233. yourselfl And a FREET-SHIRT just for calling. 1-800-932-052B, ext. 75. FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 
277·1659. 
Interested in broadcasting? NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE, NO's STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074 only cable television show is looking for anchors, reporters, directors, video photographers, Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU and camera people. No tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill experience necessary, just a love (616) 329·2906 Kalamazoo of broadcasting! Call Chris x2309 if interested. 
WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP 
TICKET TO SAN FRAN. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA Earn up to $2D00-$4000 or more TIXIII MIKE at X1573 per month on fishing vessels or In canneries. Many companies provide transportation and room & board. Need Mich. St. & USC No experience necessary. Male or G.A.s call Mike x0600 Female. For more information call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 
NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL 
HOME NO GAMES IRISH REPUBLIC T-SHIRT CALL AARON X1B68 new if possible, will pay bucks X4097 I need 2 MSU tixl Lisa x 2569 
I'm sorta rich and very desperate. $$$$ HELP WANTEDIIJIIIIII $$$$ Need Mich St. tix! Call Darren at PART-TIME WORKERS at U.P. 2B7·8090 Mall selling Western Wear. Flexible Hours. Call 2B2-2800. Need MSU GA's 
x4519 

FOR RENT 

Need 2 Ga's for Pitt game. Please Call Will x3080 
GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT. Alumni needs 2 GA tix 4 Mich St, $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA. Pitt, & Fla St. Will pay top $$. Call JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444. Susan at X1285. 
NEEDED: 2 Pitt G.A.'s NEED USC GA'S, WILL TRADE Call ELISSA x4982 FOR BC TIX. CALL JIM @ 2B9­
6648. I NEED MSU STUD TIXIII Mike x4-11 03 $$$$$$$ HELP! NEED 1 PITT GA 
X3650 MSU GAs WANTED! AMY x4813 
Need 2 Fla. St. GA's I NEED 3 GAS & 1 STUD Best offer-call T J 232-5030 FOR PITT CALL 4248 
I STILL NEED 
usc 

WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR FSU NO -MICH. ST. GA TIX. CALL GAs JOE AT 287·4561 AFTER 6P.M. 28B-52B2 KYLE 
ALUM WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO 4 SALE PITT USC FSU BC OR FOUR TICKETS TO ANY OR STUDENTS 232-3736 ALL OF THE FOLLOWING HOME GAMES: PITTSBURGH, USC, FLORIDA STATE, BOSTON COL­NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC LEGE. CALL BILL HOGAN MATT@ 232-3B70 (OFFICE) 217-7B2-6995 (ANS. MACHINE) 217-69B-9267 
NEED 4 MICH ST. GAs. I CAN WANTED: 2-4 TICKETS FSU/ND BUY OR SELL YOU 40 TIMES 1-B00-524-5999 OVER, SO MONEY IS NO 
OBJECT. CALL JOE RUSSO AT 

234-6306. Will trade MSU(B) and BC(6) tix for Southern Cal. Call631-6305 or 291-4240. NEED 2 MSU GAs. CALL KERR/ 
CARPENTER, AKA EDITH I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSUI$ BUNKER, AT X2635. X4355 NEED 2 MSU GAs X17B6 DESI 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$. Need MSU stud lie Will trade Call CALL ALISA@ 4-1302. Jen x2B01 
TRADE 2 PITT GAs for 2 SC or Desperately need 3 MSU or FSU FSU GAs. BOB. 277-2510. GA's $$. Call Keith @273-3920. 
I need GA and Student tickets for SELLING MARRIED STUDENT MSUI Will pay $! Howie 273-5347 TICKET BOOKLET 232 4827 ND vs USC -Need tickets for 
10/23 game.Chris Marks Need 1 Mich. St. ticket B00-523-3139. for my dying sister call x1572 NEED FSU TIX. CALL COLLECT 
215-539-B421 AFTER 5 PM. 

Really Need 2 USC GA's for family Paulx1556 'TICKETS FOR All' 
HOME GAMES PLEASE HELP, NEED MICH. ST. CALL 703-53B-6657 G.A.'S. CALL2B7-B090 ASK FOR BRENDAN 
'SAME DAY SERVICE' 

NEED TWO GA'S FOR WANTED PITT AND FSU TIX. X2756 MICHIGAN STATE WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. 
CALL JOSE AT 634-2173 NEED 1 PITT GA. x3533 ·joe. 
WHY WORRIED FOR !D'S ? NEED MSU GA'S SELLING MARRIED STUDENT ANGIE 273-SBOS TICKETS MSU OR BOOKLET 
271199B 

MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK 4 SALE. CALL277-7B76. HAVE PITT GA'S TO TRADE OR 
SELL FOR 1 MICH. ST. TIX. I need 6 Mich-State GAs!! KEVIN x1230 Paul 273-5972 
-PLEASE HELP­I HEY! $Need 2 stud. tix-any game$ NEED ONE GIRL'S STUD. PITT $Katie 273-6324$ TICKET FOR VISITING BEST 
FRIEND HELP! DAVE-1436 $$$Need 4 Pitt GA'sll call Katie 273-6324$$$ 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR WANTEDIIIIII!IIIIII GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST. GA:s 2773097 3-4 G. A.'s $$$$NEED GA's-All HOME$$$$ 
u.s.c. $$$$GAMES. Steve x1217$$$$$ october 23 (fall break) 
call: I need Msu Tix 2725 Will pay cash or trade for Pitt GA's John 273-4119 $NEED$ MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS CALL JOHN AT X1227 
Will Pay ZANY Amounts of CASH I NEED 2 PIT GAS for 5 F.S.U. GA'S $$ 'rents are paying $$ CALL 273-65BB Jocelyn call jim at 273-5B23 
#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ 

FSU STU NEEDED$$$244B Help! I need four tickets to the Boston College game .... 
USC Stud. Ticket for sale -best offer will get it. If you would like to make a hot Call Kenya at x4341 or x4553 babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at 
634-2703... 

@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# NEED GA'S FOR USC,FSU & BC CALL NICK X1777 
will trade 2 PITT GA's for 2 FSU 

GA's. 233-5130. NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR GOOD SEATS. CALL SCOTT AT 271­9740. i will buy your std. ticket bklets. call 
mike at 233-5130 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 $For Sale$ 
FSU GAl Call Sean@ x1223 Married Stud Tixbook Call alterS pm @273-3140 
HAVE 2 GA EACH HM GM TAKE BEST OFFER Will trade 1 USC stud for 1 Pitt LANCE 271-1681 stud. or GA. Call Nicole @X1268 
I need GA's for MSU and Florida St.!I -call Kathleen 273-B562. I have 6 FLA ST. tix lor sale AT 
FACE VALUE! Dan: 4-1771 Need 3 MSU GA's; will pay top $$ call Brian at 634-3314 Need 6 MSU GAs. Will trade 2 
B.C. and/or$$$$. Call Mike at NEED GA'S FOR MSU AND PITT. (BOO) 446-6060 ext.231. JAY X1534 FOR SALE 4 MSU GA'S. TOGETHER AT 
SELLING STUDENT BOOKLET 25-YD LINE. CALL BILL AT ASK FOR OLGA 4-1290 291-6216 
NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S Tony x3327 

PERSONAL 

Have Stud Tixbook. Call Young @ 233-5735,9-11p.m Ru Paul Shoaps wants you to want 
him. NEED 3 MSU GAs CALL TOM x3492 
Join the ND/SMC Ballroom WANTED: ONE (1) NO vs MICHI­Dance Club! GAN STATE $50 plus. Call (515) Starting this Thursday B;00-9:30 965-0512. at theStepan Center 
Ques? Call Karen 4-2110 

Daniella 2B4-4061 or I NEED 6 FLA ST. GA's. I HAVE$. laurie 4-3490 CALL BRIAN AT 4-1772. I have $1 
Trade MSU SEC 8 GA FOR SEC ADOPTION IS LOVE 17 GA 634-17B6 DES! loving Indiana medical profession­
als eager to adopt newborn. MARRIED STU BOOKLET 4 SALE MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential. CALL 2B7 2528 Call our home toll free to hear all 
about us. Jacl and Jon 1-B00-224­
2429. NEED PITT GA'S LARGE FAMILY WANTS TO SEE SIS IN BAND. CALL SHEILA x5609 or (614)459­0074 
MNII\IIIIMMMNIA 

WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST 
Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA Over 600 students skipped one Need FSU tickets, stud or GA meal per week last year. Call Dave at 4-3507 The results? Over $12,000 
donated to hunger relief. Need 1 MSU Stud Tix Think about it. Why not help us Chris 4-4022 make it $15,000 this year? 
Every student counts. 

Sign up this week at the dining I BEG YOU, PLEASE SELL YOUR halls, or call x4-4253 and leave your MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS TO name and i.d. number. ME, YOU KNOW YOU NEED TO STUDY! CINDY@ 273-0926 Thanks for thinking fast. 
World Hunger Coalition. 
Help! I need two tickets lor the MSUgame. Call Jackie at 2507. 
need:FSU,PITT STUD & PIT GA WANTED: 6 AVAILABLE NO MEN BILLX4022 TO BE SYR DATES(Sept 25) FOR 
6 DESIRABLE FARLEY WOMEN I need MSU Student Tix PLEASE SEND REFERENCES TO Dan 4-17BB JENNIFER DURSO or CORRIE 
STECKART (not in the 6) X4003 
ASAP NEED 2-5 MICH. St.GAs. Will buy and/or trade. HAVE 2 PITT GAs. Raissa X4BOO. 
Hey Beavis .... NEED MSU + FSU GA'S TOM @271-290B lafayette Square suckslll 
Yeah..hmm...huh ... hmm 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THANK YOU St. Jude for glndlsmc WANTED WANTED WANTED po 194, NO IN 46556 1 MICH. ST. STUDENT TICKET CALL JULIE AT 2784. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ would you tell me if i had that white, 
calciferous, toothpaste stuff around I NEED 1 MSU stu tix... l PLEASE my mouth? CALL Molly at x1291 
NEED 1 Pitt GA/Stud.$$$ call Sue x2768 "MARSHMALLOW" M.S.U. 
Selling MSU Stud, Pete-273-5909 TOP 1 0 REASONS TO COME 
Selling MSU Stud, Pete-273-5909 to see the Chicano Secret Service a really good comedy troupe Tues Sept 21 7:00 $3 
2 Pitt GA's needed. Will pay top $. 10. There are 3 of them. Call4-2774. 9. That means they're really only $1 apiece. NEED MSU GA OR STUD X3265 B. They don't suck. 
7. They're witty and insightful, with 
Will pay BIG for MSU GAs mastery of the nuances of language call Paul 273-5972 and wisdom uncanny for their youth. 
6. They're pretty funny, too. 

5. What else is there to do on a Will pay BIG for MSU GAs Tuesday night? 
call Paul 273-5972 4. It's rumored that one of them is named Raoul. 
I need 4 Stanford GAs call Mike @ x2276 
8-BALL POSSE-KEEP ON NEED 2 PITT TIX. GA'S OR TRUCKN' Ill STUD. PLEASE CALL USA x1297. Listen to Nocturne Nightflight on 
WSND B8.9 fm every night from stud. tix. boklet 4 sale. 2B7-252B midnight unit! 2 am for new alterna­alter6p.m. tive music. 


ompa~s 
------------. 
COLUMBUS; Ohio'% 

Lorenzo Styles says to forget the comparisons to Marcus Marek, Pepper Johnson, Chris Spielman or Steve Tovar. 
Instead, he asks to merely be considered on his own merit as Ohio State's latest anchor at linebacker. 
"There's been a lot of good middle linebackers here at Ohio State, but I just want to be my own person. Show my skills as Lorenzo Styles, not as a Pepper Johnson or Steve Tovar type. I ·ust want to be myself," Styles said earlier this week. 
So far, being Lorenzo Styles is enough. He leads 11th-ranked Ohio State with 23 tackles as the Buckeyes' defense has per· mitted two touchdowns in two games. including one in Saturday's 21·12 victory over 
ashington. 
This week, Styles will again be in his high-profile position when the Buckeyes travel to Pittsburgh. 
Styles, a 6-foot-2, 242-pound sophomore, knows a thing or two about Pittsburgh. He played high school playoff games in Three Rivers Stadium 
P R INC I P L E S of S 0 UN 0 R I<: TIRE MEN T IN\' EST I 1\' G Moeller says. ''I'd like to have been in position to run the ball a little more. But we didn't per­form like we should have." 
What the vocal fans ap­parently failed to realize is that the passing game, at which Collins has become so adept, isn't very effective unless the defense can be kept honest by the threat of a runner like Wheatley. 
"You always second guess yourself," Moeller says. "But, no, I wouldn't change much." 
The Wolverines (1-1), who dropped from third to 1Oth in the AP poll after the 27-23 defeat, are idle this week. The game they would have played, against Washington State, was moved up to Sept. 4. Michigan will return to action next week when Houston (0-2) visits Ann Arbor. 
Moeller is using the down time to re-evaluate the players on Michigan's special teams. 



gfellows 
September

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START 
17th and 18th 

SAVING FORRETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS 
SHOW TIME 9:30p.m.

LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. 
Appearing at

C
an't afford to save for retir~ment? Even ifyou're not counting the years to 
The Longfellows -Back by popular
The Midway Tavern demand, the area's hottest Alternative 
The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF 
810 West 4th Street Band is comin!( your way. You don't 
Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve­
want to miss thts show! Bring your ND
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want with flexible retirement and tax-deferred 
2 Blocks So. of Hacienda @ 100 Center charge! · 
to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. 
By starting to save now, you can take advantage of tax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $wo each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $172,109* by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $219 each month to reach the same goal. 
----------~-~---~---~ -----~ ~ 
Thursday, September 16, 1993 page 11 
C_ _'h->itif-t&:i<--.. -•.,.•..._,.,..,,.·,-·',.\ii!NlfF·.·•·•·_­
Michigan's Gary Moeller responds 
,~~£~~~ 
to boos, rebounds from loss 
. a.) I:Iigh School. _ town was 40 miles -By HARRY ATKINS theSteel City. Associated Press 9f S~les. ·who lived ill -from the sixth throu 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. grades,_ said he's going ___. 
With 6:48 left in the third quarter, Tyrone Wheatley
a lot of tickets to aceonun.od .-... ___ --•--··· _______ .__ _ __ __ _ j all the family and frien,ds ~iil;'N _Styles .said the c tt.ng~ tP, 
slammed over left tackle for 3 ing out to see him play.. )i _v• positiori, didn't require 3. uiaj()r 
yards. A chorus of boos cas­----._·. ___ ':•!'/:'' -:r adjuStment. _--._ --__ •-···· --_-•• ____---•.• _ caded down 
''I've_ got almost 20,"he ~id of the tickets he has ~t. aside. Asked how many more he needs, he laughed, "No limite" 
Pitt recruited him. but. ~~ decided to return to· Columbus. 
"I never cared too much about the university," hf.l said about Pitt. "The surround\ngs are too much in the city, too much to do, too much to getin trouble with. So I decided to come down here. I like the at· mosphere better. The campus is apart from the city." 
Styles started the sprin.$ a,s .. an outside linebacker. hut was moved inside to fill the vacancy left by NFL draftee Tqva,r; SQ far, he hasn't disappoii!-ted any~ 
one. · · · 
"It's nice having a guy like Lorenzo Styles that you can move from backup o1.1tside line" hacker to the middle and strengthen your football team," said OSU coach John Cooper. 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest­ment choices, and a record of personal _ service that spans 75 years. 

MARKETING CLUB
Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not 

MEETING CANCELLED 
join them? Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you 
for Thursday, September 16 
have time and TIAA-CREF working on 
(Due to conflict with Senior Class Cruise)
your side. 
Mike Miller's 56-yard punt return for a Notre Dame touch­down marked the second straight game in which an op· ponent earned a special teams TD. In the season opener, Washington State's Kevin Hicks returned a kickoff 97 yards for a score. 
"We're going to be looking at lineup changes," Moeller says. "We may have to get some depth from some of our fresh­men. There definitely may be some new faces on the punt team." 
Yet, on the whole, Moeller 
• isn't as unhappy with this team as the 106,851 folks who had to pay their way in last week. Frankly, there is much to like about the Wolverines. 
They outgained Notre Dame in every offensive area, finish­ing with 402 total yards to 371 for the Irish. They simply couldn't overcome three inter­ceptions and some uninspired tackling. 
Any team with Wheatley, Collins and a fleet of receivers that is at least five deep, is going to win a lot of games. 
With 318 all-purpose yards against Notre Dame -the fourth-highest single game total in Michigan history -Wheatley boosted his career total to 3,054 yards, the 10th-most in school history. 
Collins completed 22 of 37 passes for 251 yards, including a 13-yard touchdown toss to Mercury Hayes with 34 seconds left in the game. Collins has passed for more than 200 yards in all four of his starts. 
Collins, a junior, also is maturing in other ways. He is learning there is a correct way to respond both on and off the field. He recently apologized for the "fairy quarterback" quip he made following the Washington State game. 
When asked during postgame interviews about his ability to stand in the pocket and take hits, Collins tried to explain that he actually enjoyed that aspect of the game. 
"I like to stand in there and take a hit just as I let one go for a completion," he said. "I like to take a hit. It makes me feel like a football player instead of a fairy quarterback." 
-"It hasn't really beentol.Jg~.J just had to have the perspectiv!:l toattack the ballfrom insid~ out instead of from ()Utside i.n,,:t he said. _ _---_ _.-­
Now he is making the trai).si­tion from a part-time roleplay~ er last year to being the c~ntraJ defender for the Buckey~. 
''We believed all along_ \Ve had o.ne of the top defenSes in th~ country," he said. " NoW we:re just going out to prove it every night, to put our W()r~s on the Une." · ··· 
I:Ie said there were major dif• ferences from last year's team:. .which ended up ·fourth ~I1 tht} nation·in points ·allowed, and this year's. squad. .. ,, ... <~.nv 
"Lastyear we had a lot of ta.l~· ent on defense. but we ltJ,cked ~hat killer instinct," he sah.t ~~This year we'remore1 'Get 'em down and kick 'em while 
they're down.' " · ·· from the fans in Michigan Stadium. 
The Bronx cheer wasn't aimed at Wheatley, of course. The 


boos were for Gary Moeller Michigan coach-~---­Gary Moeller. Notre Dame had just pulled ahead 27-10, and no Michigan team has ever overcome _more than a 14-point deficit to win a football game. The boo-birds wanted Moeller to open things up. "I didn't hear them," Moeller says. "That's not Michigan, anyway." It really didn't matter. Moeller didn't plan to sit on the ball. Two snaps later, quarter­back Todd Collins threw the second of his three intercep· tions that afternoon. ''I'd sure like to take back the plays that didn't work," 
Start pumni"l!yourfUture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 BOO 842-2888. 



RESCHEDULED 
75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:'" 

for Monday (9/20) or Tuesday (9/21) 
*AJ.rumin.q an iflltrul raft oflOO% crtdtl~d to TIAA RttirtrMnl An~uitiu. Tbt.r_ ratt i.r u.ud .toltly to .tbow tbt powtr anJ 4/ut ofcompounJing. Lov,Jtr or higher rata wou/J 
Look for signs
proJua v<ry Jiffmnt ruuft,. CREF artifu:atu ar< Jutribut<J by TIAA-CREF lnJiviJua/ anJ /n,l<lutiof!ll/ Suviru. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 16, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS

Long road ahead for Belles soccer 

Weekend road trips to test team's endurance 
By CHERYL GILLILAND Sports Wri!er 
The Saint Mary's soccer team will be on the road today as they head to Rockford College in Illinois. 
The Belles, 1-1, are "off to a good start," said senior Megan Dalsaso. "This is our first away game during the week and playing after a long bus trip will be tough. This game will be a good test for us." 
Coach Tom Van Meter is pleased with the season so far. 
"I'm really happy coming off Sunday's win. Saturday's loss was a hard one, but I feel the team is playing very well." 
Van Meter is concerned about the length of the trips, yet op­timistic about what the Belles will do. 
"The next two games are go­ing to be difficult ones with traveling distances of three to five hours. There will be pres­sure to play well after a long ride." 
"I feel that the team has pro­gressed thoroughly in the last couple of weeks," said senior Jenny Kaplan. "Today will pre­pare us for a tough weekend. We hope to improve on many of our faults." 
The Belles are looking to im­prove on defensive skills in their upcoming games. 
"We have a tendency not to attack the ball defensively," noted Van Meter. "We need to be more aggressive in the fu­ture." 
Kaplan agreed, noting that, "we have been working on our defensive positioning and trap­ping." 
Another long trip will test the Belles on Sunday when they visit Heidleberg for the first time ever. 
"We have never played them before, but they are going to be a tough team," said Dalsaso. "We really need to get geared up for Sunday's game." 
Dalsaso is the leading scorer for the Belles, with two out of the three goals this season. 
"We are really fortunate to have Megan," said Van Meter. "The seniors have all been playing really well. We just need to be consistent and keep working." 

Flower Delivery 7 Days 
P0'SY (I Pptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North 

1-800-328-0206

Thursday -Ladies Night 

Victoria's Real Secret 
Emily 

The Essentials with EZ Ed Right 
Friday-Jo-Jo and The Blues Train 

~ 
0 
z 
Saturday -The Bel Airs 
Campw 

;:;;;
:z: 
z 
Club Hockey: Anyone interested in playing club hockey, con­Rob at X1950. Leave your name, telephone number, 
Skip Holtz will speak Thursday, September 16 at 9:00 PM basement of Farley, spnosored by the Fellowship of 
Men's and Women's varsity diving team tryouts will be Wednesday to Friday, 4-5:30 PM at Rolfs Aquatic Center. ''"'-·-·-·-·Adam or Randy at 631-8455 with any question~. 
Spartan Spike Volleyball Tournament. Rec Sports is oring a 6-on-6 co-ree volleyball tournament on Fri ay. mber 17, 8:00 PM under the lights at Stepan Courts. !HeJ!(iSt1er in advance in the RecSports office by Friday at noon. information call the RecSports office at 631-6100. """''"u••n's volleyball Shamrock Invitational will be IWA·Akf~nn at the Joyce Center. The Irish will face Cal 
at 4 p.m. Friday and William and Mary Saturday at 11 . games will be free admission. Saturday night at 7 p.m. Irish will play New Mexico. Admission is $2 or free to those 
a Blue and Gold card. 

~[? ~ lru'U' ~1M ®!? o~rg o/.Jc@ ~ /1, /1, 'U'@ I1!J [Rl[NJ ~ !MJ ~[NJ 'U' 
rF rrua @~w~~ ®~[F) If~ !MJLID ~rru 'iJ Y ®If ~[F)~ 1M ©© !WrRllJ' ® c ®~ @@ [F)!MJ 
ALSO ... ffi1l (!JJ® Q© WYJW [F Q
0 

~~ [F ~ ~® [}{]ffi1l ~ OOiJ ® 
SPONSORED BY 



BACK 
BY POPULAR DEMAND 

Tom DeLuca 
Master Hypnotist 
Friday, September 17th ..-9:00 p.m. Washington Hall .. Tickets: $3°0 Available at LaFortune Information Desk 
Sponsored by Office of Student Activities 
• 0 -uwc; w 
The Observer· NFL FOOTBALL page 13 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Former Notre Dame star Rod Smith learned a valuable lesson from coach Lou Holtz that he has carried over to his pro career. 
Rod Smith takes Holtz's lesson to the pros 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz acted swiftly when defensive back Rod Smith missed a tackle on Michigan's Desmond Howard in 1990. He benched Smith for most of the season. 
Smith thinks that lesson can help him overcome a similar benching by New England Patriots coach Bill Parcells. 
"It was probably one of the toughest moments I've had in my life," he said Wednesday of his demotion by Holtz. "Having gotten through it, I look back at it now as a very positive thing and ended up gaining a lot from it." 
Andre Reed burned Smith for coach is always searching for the best combination." 
As a junior at Notre Dame, Smith couldn't bring down Heisman Trophy winner Howard. Holtz wasn't happy. 
"I got benched for seven games and had to work my way back in and made some big plays and held my spot after that," Smith said. 
He said mental strength helps a player survive the stressful environment at Notre Dame, where coaches challenge play­ers and talented teammates threaten their jobs. 
Holtz is criticized in a just­published book, "Under the Tarnished Dome." 
"I'm only on page 137, but there's really not a whole lot to the book, really There's not a 

"The kids who made it through that place and who were reasonably successful are the guys who had a large amount of mental toughness," he said. "You were challenged every day, and a lot of people break down under those type of conditions. 
"You had to be able to work through the pressure," he added. "I never wilted. I had good support from my family and friends." 
Smith played every game as a reserve cornerback in his sophomore season. Although he was in every game as a junior, his diminished playing time left him with just 29 tackle. 
He was a starter in his final season and had 69 tackles and three interceptions The 


two fourth-quarter touchdowns whole lot of facts. There are a Patriots took him with the sec­as Buffalo won the season lot of opinions," Smith said. ond pick of the 1992 draft and
Thank you! 
opener over the Patriots, 38-14. ''I'm not sure what (the he started one of the 16 games Last Sunday, Smith played only authors') point was to prove. he played for that 2-14 team. on special teams and in goal­"From a different angle, it Now he's not starting for a line defenses in the Patriots 19-looks a little better. From a dif­team that is 0-2. 
To everyone who auditioned for 
16 loss to Detroit. ferent angle, it looks a little "There's not really that much "It was a very similar situa­worse. Every program has its to talk about" concerning
Shenanigans. We truly appreciated 
tion and feeling to being at problems." Smith's play, Parcells said. Notre Dame," the cornerback Smith, who said he wasn't "He's playing well for us on
your time, effort, and enthusiasm! 
said. "There are so many good interviewed for the book, special teams and right now people that guys get moved admitted that Holtz is a very he's backing up Maurice Hurst around an awful lot and the demanding coach. at cornerback."
The Shenanigans Officers 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 

Nobody Goes to Heaven All Alone a very powerful experience. 
One of the great promises of the fancy recruitment brochures is that Notre Last Sunday, the remnant of that group gathered in LaFortuve Ballroom to 
Dame and St. Mary's are places where people will experience "community." continue their struggle for community. Twelve of the original eighteen groups As could be found at many other renowned institutions, here we know that survived. Some of their folks have gone off to London, or lnnsbruck, or we have great professors, anxious to teach, and anxious to learn, and anxious Rome. Others became bored, or tired, or busy with other things. But among to push the edges of research grantdom. Like so many of our sister those who chose to continue, there was a sense that they have tasted 
institutions, here we take it for granted that there are talented, competitive something good, and need to follow it to its conclusion. students, full of energy and creativity, traversing our everupgraded sidewalks. Like almost no place else around, here we are grateful to share in a beautiful, In January of this school year, new groups of students will be formed. First 
peaceful environment for study and for growth. year students especially will be targeted for the invitation to community. In 
the meantime, on Monday night, September 20, the first of several Still beyond all of that, around here we proclaim that everybody is somehow ' information meetings will be held at 9:00 pm in the Faculty Dining Room, hooked together, somehow dependent upon each other for the success of our upstairs in the South Dining Hall. All interested students should attend. deepest mission, somehow blessed to be sharing together in the call to 
community. On Wednesday, September 29, the first of several dinner meetings for faculty 
will be held in that same room, upstairs in the South Dining Hall. Campus This makes a difference in how we work. It makes a difference in how we Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns have invited interested learn. If someone is suddenly fired from his or her job, it feels like we have professors and their spouses for a conversation about the relationship broken a covenant. If someone is forced to withdraw from the university between their faith and their professional lives. because they can't make their tuition payments, it feels like we have all 
suffered a defeat. Somehow I bet "community" will again be a powerful word at those tables. 
Most alumni, when they return for the ever more popular five year reunions, Tom McDermott, C.S.C. talk about the friendships they made while living in the dorms. They remember people who were honest, people who shared ~ in ways that they 



WEEKEND PREsmERS 
may have seldom experienced since. Perhaps it was their age, perhaps it was 
AT SACRED IIEART BASWCA
their constant togetherness. Somehow they were 'bonded. ' 
Sat. September 18 5:00 p.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Most alumni, when questioned about the experience of their college years, 
Rev. Mr. Robert Dowd, C.S.C., will talk about professors who cared about their minds and their hearts, who 
Homilist shared their lives openly with them, and who wanted them to grow. 
Sun. September 19 10:00 a.m. Rev. William Seetch, C.S.C. Somehow they were 'taught.' 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 

In these days of enhanced academic excellence, the faculty is flashier and better paid than ever, while at the same time teaching fewer hours per semester than their ancestors. In these days of limited resources, many students are squeezed by a competitive job market and an endless quest to be 




SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR
#l, while working parHime jobs to offset their ever~growing educational loans. 
THIS COMING SUNDAY 
These conditions can work against that elusive, yet oh~so~valued experience of community. 
1ST READING Isaiah 55: 6..9 2ND READING Phillippians 1:20 .. 24, 27 
Last semester a large group of students joined together in a project called "Communities ND." Every other week they met together, in small groups in 
GosPEL Matthew 20: 1.. 16 
the dorms, to talk about the experiences of their lives, to reflect together upon the Gospel of the upcoming Sunday, and to become reliable friends who shared a commitment to something beyond .themsdv:e:;, Fo~;: ma,ny. it_w~ -----~ _~ --~M--~--· • t I' I I • • ·
''If J-t I • · • t 


page 14 The Observer· MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Thursday, September 16, 1993 
Realignment complete, Pirates agree to join NL Central 
By ALAN ROBINSON Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
The National League's new three-division alignment fell into place Wednesday when the Pittsburgh Pirates, the East's most successful team since di­vision play began in 1969, moved to the new Central Division. 
The alignment was left unde­cided during the major league owners meetings at Boston last week after Pittsburgh and Atlanta sought to be in the East. The expansion Florida Marlins oiTered to move to the Central, if necessary. 
But. swayed by a balanced

i 
schedule that gives them as

t 
many games against traditional rivals Philadelphia and New

I
' 
I York as their new divisional I opponents, the Pirates averted a possible confrontation by
' 
moving.I 
I The new alignment, which takes eiTect next season: 
I ' 
I 
-NL East: Atlanta, Florida, Montreal. New York. 

I r 
Philadelphia. 
-NL Central: Chicago, Cincinnati, Houston, Pittsburgh, 

[ 
St. Louis. 

f 
I 
-NL West: Colorado, Los 

r I I ,I  Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco. The new East makeup contin­ues rivalries such as the  
Phillies-Mets as well as creating  
the new deep-South rivalry be­ 
tween the Braves and Marlins  
that Atlanta desperately sought.  
Until this season,  no other NL  
franchise  was even  remotely  
close to Atlanta.  
"The fact that Pittsburgh has  


Toronto's 
grows, Orioles falter 
DETROIT 
Toronto won its fifth straight game and increased its AL East lead to 2 1/2 games. 
Paul Molitor drove in four runs as the Blue Jays matched their longest winning streak since the All~Star break and won the season series with the Tigers for the sixth consecutive year. 
Molitor had an RBI double and a two-run homer, his 21st, and Tony Fernandez went 4~ for-4. The Blue Jays colJected 19 hits and nine walks ofT eight Detroit pitchers. 
Toronto starter Todd Stottlemyre (10-10) gave up three runs on six hits over 5 2· 3 innings. Duane Ward got the last four outs for his 40th save. 
Mike Moore (12-9), who gave up eight hits in four innings, took the loss. 

agreed to go to the Central makes a lot of sense," Marlins owner H. Wayne Huizenga said. "They were the farthest to the West and the closest to those (Midwest) teams." 
Pirates president Mark Sauer pointed out that Cleveland, the closest franchise to Pittsburgh, also chose the Central when faced with the same East vs. Central decision last week. 
"We received no arm twisting on this at all," Sauer said. "There's a lot at stake here ... and, after we got back from Boston, the decision fell i'nto place very quickly. It just made sense. We talked with (the Braves and Marlins), but we made our own decision." 
The Pirates were initially adamant about not leaving the East, but Sauer dropped his opposition when American 

· BOSTON 
Roger Clemens struggled to his first home win in eight weeks as Boston prevented Baltimore from moving into second place in the AL East. 
Tim Naehring drove in three runs with a pair of doubles for Boston, which won at home for only the third time in 13 games. 
Clemens (11-13} lasted just five innings, allowing five runs on six hits and three walks. Mike Mussina (14-6) lasted just 3 2-3 innings. 
MINNEAPOUS 
Dave Winfield singled for his 2,998th career hit, but Minnesota still lost as Scott Brosius and Ruben Sierra drove in five runs apiece for Oakland. 
Winfield, trying to become the 19th player in baseball his­tory to get 3,000 hits, went 1­for-4 and has only 18 hits in his last 110 at-bats. He was robbed of a second-inning single on a diving stop by second baseman Brent Gates. 
His line-drive single to left­center ofT Todd Van Poppet (5­
5) in the fourth moved him past Mel Ott into 11th place in total bases with 5,042. 
Minnesota's Willie Banks (9­
11) gave up six hits, five runs and three walks in four innings. 
ST. LOUIS 
St. Louis stopped the Expos' charge for at least one night as Bernard Gilkey's two-out single in the ninth broke the final tie. 
The loss ended the Expos' eight-game winning streak and put them 5 1/2 games behind o first-place Philadelphia in the NL East. 

League owners won a contin­uation of the current balanced schedule through 1997. AL West franchises such as Texas and Oakland want to retain the twice-a-season visits by the big Eastern drawing cards, New York and Boston. 
Currently, NL teams play 13 games against each division opponent and 12 each against the other division. Exactly how the balanced schedule will con­tinue with three divisions rather than two still hasn't been decided. 
"From a balanced schedule standpoint. it really won't aiTect any rivalries," Sauer said. "Our main concern about the realignment was the start of television games and playing too many games in the Central time zone. That part really doesn't matter now." 

Enter to win a Fun Makeover and Photo Session! Mail your entry to: Beauty, Elegance & Style Contest 
P. 0. Box 4698, S. Bend, IN 46634 by September 30, 1993. NAME 
ADDRE=s~s~-----------------­
St. Edward's Hall Players 
Kinder 
continued from pagel6 
week's game, but playing adds a lot to the excitement. 
"It's neat for me because I could have been there instead of here," said Kinder. 
Because of his familiarity with some of the Spartan play­ers, some might think he would make a good scout, but not Kinder. Most of the guys he knows y aren't likely to factor in the game. 
Lou Holtz isn't looking for any tips either. 
"Coach Holtz accused me of trying to throw the game after some mistakes in practice," said Kinder. 
On Saturday, Kinder will only be trying to throw another win into the Irish record books. He'd like to go home for Christmas. 

This Week in Notre Dame Sports 
Oh, what a Weekend! 
------------Friday 9/17 

Women's Soccer vs. Michigan State 
5:00 pm Alumni Field Women's Volleyball vs. Northridge 
4:00 pm JACC Arena Men's Soccer vs. Michigan State 
7:30 pm Alumni Field 

Saturday 9/18----­
Women's Volleyball JACC Arena vs. William & Mary vs. New Mexico 11:00 am 7:30pm 
Sunday 9/19-----------~-­
Women's Soccer vs. William & Mary 
12:00 pm Alumni Field Men's Soccer vs. Evansville 
2:30 pm Alumni Field 
present Neil Simon's 
"Brighton Beach Memoirs" 
Open Auditions will be held on 
Wednesday and Thursday 
from 7-9 pm 
in the St. Ed's Chapel 
r----·~-· -~-­
TODAY 
Thursday, September 16, 1993 page IS 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
11-HS IS 111 (,£ORG> E. R£ L.M, MAN,Yov• RE ONE 
HtT THIS 20 '1'1tRD Of nt€. &sT KICKERS AELV&OilL AND WE IN Tf'C NAnoN. WHPrT 
WtN! COUL-D G,o 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
IVE (JJ\ II-'
n" DOII'lG A. 
CR.O§ WORQ PIJZI.lE. "iElLOW· BELUI::D 
!'lUMBER 114REE SA.PSIJCKE.R".' 
ACRO% SA.'{S ''BIRD." 
1993 Wanerson/015\ by UnN8fSat Press SyrnliCate 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Loser to Hoover: 1928 
1 Monikers 37Tar6 Bradley or 38 Minstrel'sSharif offering10 Entreat 39 The Kingston 14 Bias Trio hit: 1959 15 Shiny cloth 40 Not suitable 16 Get one's goat 43 A $1.98 bungee17Menu jump?
18 Lindros of the 47 Chemical
N.H.L 
compounds19 Unlock 49 Street, in20 Eerie group of Stuttgart

peaks? 23 Early Christian 
50 Wrench, e.g. chalice 52 Dudley Moore 24Goad 
film 25 Most 53 Problem for 
light-hearted Montana? 29 Avers 58 Not fer 33 Royal flush? 60 Challenge 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~-:-t:::+=-1 
-7:+.::-t-=4-=-=-­
...~+..,;..~ 
-=+:~+.-:-~~+=-+=-i 

61 Long periods of time 63 Southern 
France 64 Author Mills 65 Something to 
pledge 66 Urgent request 67 Snack 68 Cosmetician 
Lauder 
DOWN 

1 Presidential advisory gp. 2 End of a Stein 
line 3 Store 4 Board the Cape 
Codder 5 Like some clams 6 Actor Vidov 7 Dark lunar plain 8 Mideast bigwigs 9 Newsy 
summaries 10Agenda 11 Auspicious 12 Falstaff's quaff 13 Urge 21 Poet Ogden 
22 McAuliffe's reply at Bastogne 

25 B.Agr. aspirant 
n~tl··· 26 Actor Jeremy -=+:-+::::+.:~+=-1-:-i 27 Moroccan port -=+±:+.:+.'--7+.:---+:-F.-1 28 Soft mineral -:-:+::=-+-:-+..,.-~ 30 "Hard-": Dickens 
31 Singer James and namesakes 32 Mold 34 Slangy refusal 35 Changes the hue 
41 A dark purple 42Walked on 44 Aleutian island 
45 Come earlier than 
46 Advice columnist Ann­
• Thursday, September 16 
Butch Cassmdy & The Sundance KJd 
The Montgomery Theater in Lafortune Student Center 8:00pm & 10:30pm 
WRON(,? 
BILL WAITERSON 

I I<.\'lOW. 1\-\ES£ I\)10IS Mt>.I(E '{0\.) WRITE REt>.L ~ALL. 

Once again, Vernon has a good shirt ruined by a cheap pocket octopus. 
OF INTEREST 

48 Soaked 55 Open weave 
56 Swag plain 
51 Open, grassy 
57 Being, in Callao 53 Stash 58 Elec. measure 59 Actor Gerard 
54 Piccadilly Circus statue 62 That ship 
DINING HALL 

Get answers to any three clues b h 
ytouc ·tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 




~-~----­

SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, September 16, 1993 
Improving North Park to chall~nge Belles volleyball 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON said Schroeder-Biek, something Saint Mary's SportS Ediwr that the Belles rarely stress in practice. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball Schroeder-Biek also noted team is hoping that history re­that offense has been a focus peats itself tonight at 7 p.m. in for the team in the past week. Angela Athletic Facility as the "We are really working on Belles take on North Park quickening our offense," she College in the season home said. "But we need the pass to opener. be able to do so." 
Last year, the Belles defeated Although the Belles will be North Park in three games, 16-playing without last year's star 
14. 15-3, 15-10. However, Karen Lorton, several players Belles' coach Julie Schroeder­have stepped up to fill the void. Biek realizes that a repeat will Transfer student Erica not be easy. Freithe provided 56 points for 
the Belles in their six game 
North Park wasn't much of a tournament last weekend. match for the Belles last season but Schroeder-Biek felt they The team will also turn to se­improved a great deal from the nior tri-captain Michelle year before under a new coach. Martino, who leads the team in She's expecting that improve­assists and senior tri-captain After a disappointing finish in The Belles appeared to be a more as a team," senior tri-cap­ment to continue. Kim Branstetter wbo con­their opening tournament at much improved team at the tain Sara Stronczek said after Another strength for North tributed 53 digs in last week­Kalamazoo College, the Belles Oberlin tournament, something last weekend's matches. 
Park is their serving. To end's effort. 
placed an impressive third they credit to increased game After another week of prac­counter this, "We have been Momentum will also be a fac­place out of 18 teams at last experience. tice, the Belles are looking to working, and will continue to tor for the Belles in tonight's weekend's Oberlin College "We got to know each other continue this improvement as work on our serve reception," contest. 
Tournament. better and were able to play they gain experience. 

Hometown fans don't hinder Kinder 
By JENNY MARTEN 

Senior Sports Writer  
"That's the kid from  
Michigan. I think he's from  
somewhere near Lansing. You  
know the one who left and  
went to Notre Dame," was  
overheard from a Wolverine  
fan during last Saturday's  
game.  
Michigan residents all over  
the stadium were whispering  
similar comments as Irish  
freshman running back Randy  
Kinder entered the game in the  
second half. Some of the whis­ 
pers turned to cheers when  
Kinder was dropped for a loss  
on his first carry.  
As a prep standout at East  
Lansing High, Kinder had nar­ 
rowed his choice of colleges  
down to three: Notre Dame,  
Michigan and Michigan State.  
By choosing Notre Dame,  
Kinder managed to disappoint  
the entire state of Michigan  
making enemies with  
Wolverine as well as Spartan  
fans.  
And the fans are not about to  
forget.  
On Saturday, a lot of eyes will  
be on Kinder as his hometown  
team, Michigan State, comes to The Observer/John Bingham  
Notre Dame Stadium. There will be some extra emotion for East Lansing, Mich. native  
"It's going to be a real special Randy Kinder in Saturday's game against Michigan State.  
game for me. As a kid, I grew  
up loving Michigan State and  point could cost us our national  Lightning." In the Northwestern  
thinking I was going to be a  championship," said Kinder.  game, Kinder got his first colle­ 
Spartan," said the freshman.  "(J:,he abuse is) an<lther reason  giate carry and much more. He  
For Kinder, the game will be  we have to win this game. I  got the call four times and  
special because about 20 mem­ can't go home for like the next  turned in solid runs including a  
bers of his family including his  40 years of my life if we lose."  21-yard carry. Against  
grandfather will be attending  Going into the game, Kinder  Michigan, Kinder had a long  
the game and because he has  has the same attitude he has  run of five yards on three car­ 
played with or against several  had before every game. He is  ries.  
guys on the team.  focused on giving 100 percent  Although he never tried to  
He is looking forward to see­ and maybe a little more.  predict whether he'd get a  
ing those players again and  As a freshman, Kinder has  chance to play in his freshman  
catching up with them, but  proved a pleasant surprise for  campaign, Kinder was looking  
winning is a must.  a running corps that lost  forward to this game and last  
"I'm still looking at it as just  Jerome Bettis and Reggie  
 
another game. Any loss at this  Brooks a.k.a "Thunder and  see KINDER I page 14  

Mellow McDougal unfazed by increased media attention 
By BRIAN KUBICKI  never done anything except try  
Associate Spores Ediror  to work hard. Kevin is just  
very, very patient and  unas- 
Kevin McDougal, you just led  suming," said the coach.  
your team to its biggest upset  McDougal has had to be pa­ 
in years. What are you going to  tient and unassuming. His first  
do now?  three years at Notre Dame  
Whatever  Notre  Dame's  were  spent waiting behind  
q u a r t e r b a c k  eventual first-round draft pick  
decides  to  do  Rick Mirer for  a  chance to  
next,  it  surely  start.  
will not be out of  "That was very difficult," ad- 
character.  He  mitted McDougal. "Coming in  
will  remain  here you think you can play,  
quiet, hard work- but it is sort of O.K. because  
ing. and patient.  Rick is a great quarterback."  
The  senior  Even with Mirer out of the  
thrust  himself  picture, McDougal was not the  
into the national  immediate go-to guy. Despite  
spotlight with last Kevin  an excellent spring camp, the  
Saturday's  win McDougal  senior came out of it virtually  

over Michigan.---=---tied with junior Paul Faila for McDougal's performance the starting job. against the Wolverines, then ranked No. 3, was seen in per­With freshman Ron Powlus son by the largest crowd in out of the picture due to a bro­NCAA history as well as on na­ken collar bone, Faila and tional television. McDougal both played in the 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz opener against Northwestern. even called the new hero into Neither had an outstanding his office to warn him about game, but it was McDougal who success. "You're not going to be finally got the offense moving. the same person off the field. He alone kept it moving People will not treat you the against the Wolverines as Failla same, but you better be the watched from the sidelines with same person on the field," the a jammed thumb. coach said of his warning at And even now after Tuesday's press conference. McDougal appeared to prove 
McDougal posted near­himself as the only starter, Heisman like numbers against Holtz plans on playing both Michigan with 208 yards on 12 quarterbacks against Michigan of 21 passing and leading the State. Irish in rushing with 66 yards "Paul had a great spring. He on nine carries. had a great fall. I still think he 
As much as he shone on the deserves to play," he said. "I'm field, he has been equally pa­not worried about that." tient off the field. That is one What he is worried about is trait that even Holtz doesn't be­the Spartans and what he lieve McDougal will give up needs to do to help the team amidst all the attention. beat them. 
"Kevin has never changed "I don't want to have a let­since the day he arrived on down. I still have a lot to campus in his attitude. He has prove," he said. 
NFL Football 
Former Irish star Rod Smith is drawing on his college experience to overcome some tough times with the Patriots. 
see page 13 
Inside SPORTS 
SMC 
A rugged road trip 
awaits the Belles soccer 
team this weekend. 
see page 12 
NCAA FOOTBALL Ohio State linebacker Lorenzo Styles doesn't like the comparisons to past greats. 
see page 11 













