


Wednesday, November 17, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 52 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 
Scheidler encourages Pro-lifers to take positive steps 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE could be avoided." Although he News Writer 
has been arrested ~.ixt.ee~ times Senate passes abortion clint·c antt.-vt·olence bt.ll

for what he called mild mfrac-. To be pro-life is to have a vo­tions of the law", Scheidler 
By KAREN BALL penaJtie$ and make other R~Minn., another abortion foecation to save lives, said compared his work to that of 
Associated Press changes to the so-called clinic backing the bill.

Joseph Scheidler, an alum who Jesus Christ, whose "whole life access bill. Sen: Edward Kennedy. D­taught journalism at Notre was a sacrifice." He said he WASHINGTON Even strong abortion oppo­Mass.• an abortion rightsDame who spoke Tuesday on considers most pro-life activists The Senate voted Tuesday to nents backed the hill, arguing advocate and the bill's spon­"Abortion, Politics. and outside abortion clinics to be a arm the Justice Department it was demanded by a growing sor, said the incidents targetedOptimism in the 90's." "sacred presence." According with new powers to stop ahot­wave ofviolence abned at clin­in the bill "are not peacefulSpeaking on optimism in the to Scheidler, this same type of 
tion clinic blockades and go· ics, doct(jrs and wornen. A protests. These attacks are
90's, Scheidler, author of devotion is present at Notre 
after violent protesters. Florida abortion doctor was more akin to assaults."

Closed: 99 Ways to Stop Dame, a school based on "the Senators rejected complaints shot to death earlier this year.
Abortion, said, "That in our motherhood of the Blessed 
they were stepping on peace­"I am pro-life ·'· bufwe can­The House is scheduled tosecular society, we must try to Virgin as a source of grace." 
ful demonstrators' First not as a society allow-acts of take up a similar bill later thiswork with enthusiasm without Among the impediments that Amendment rights. violeficl')> tj)promote any week~ D&mocrats in the twowasting time." face Scheidler and his work, The 69-30 vote followed a cause," sail! Sen. Harry Reid, chambers hope to work out aThe goal of his activism is to have been eight lawsuits. 
lengthy, emotional debate in D-Nev. · compromise to send to
buy time for pregnant women which the Senate repeatedly "Violence is no response to President Clinton beforeto reflect upon what they are "We are not racketeers," he turned back bids by anti-abor­the issue that divides us,'' Congress breaks for the yeargoing to do. According to stated in regards to a comJillent tion lawmakers to soften the added Sen. Dave Durenberger. at Thanksgiving.

Scheidler, "Many women con­made by Attorney General 
·,. .: 
> .':: • > 

sidering abortions thin~ of their Janet Reno and a case tried by the United States Supreme Tuesday "poses an obvious abortion as a "violation of God's unborn children as unknown, the Seventh Circuit of the Court on December 8, which challenge to my cause." plan for human life."
unnamed, unwanted and Federal Court. A District Court Scheidler noted was the Feast During the lecture, sponsoreduncared for." judge in Chicago decided in fa­of the Immaculate Conception. "Thank God that He called us by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's "If she could see the vor of Scheidler, and the Court In addition, the passage of into the world right now," Right to Life, Scheidler dedi­baby... hear the heartbeat," of Appeals unanimously agreed. 
the bill preventing blockades of Scheidler said after affirming cated his book to the Hesburghsaid Scheidler, a father of seven However, the case was abortion clinics in the Senate the Catholic Church's stance of Library.
children, "many abortions appealed and will be heard by 
Man hunt for Aidid ends, UN investigates attacks 
By ANDREW KATELL 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
They sent the U.S. Army's elite Rangers to arrest him. They put a $25,000 price on his head. Now the United Nations is officially giving up the man­hunt for Somali warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid. 
The Security Council voted unanimously Tuesday night to call off the search for Aidid and launch a new inquiry into at­tacks on U.N. peacekeepers in Somalia. 
Aidid has been blamed for many of those attacks, but the Security Council is backing off its condemnation of him in hopes of including him in ef­forts to find a political solution for Somalia. Many observers believe that any settlement must ultimately include Aidid. 
The Clinton administration, 
stung by public anger over the deaths of U.S. soldiers in what was supposed to be a humani­tarian relief mission, sees the move as part of the preparation for a complete U.S. troop with­drawal from Somalia by March 31. 
Washington hopes to ease tensions in Somalia so civil war, chaos and starvation don't return when the American troops leave. 
The Security Council resolu­tion also said that the United Nations should "make appro­priate provision" for people in detention -an oblique sugges­tion that Aidid's detained aides may be released. 
The United Nations is holding 35 Somalis, including three of Aidid's top aides. Eight other detainees were released Tuesday. 

Danny SledQe. de~n of students at Western Michigan University, and Iris Outlaw, director of the Multicultural Student Affa1rs Off1ce for Notre Dame, discuss the role of education and racism • 


2000 attend memorial mass 
McDermott: freshman's life represents victory 
By SARAH DORAN gave reflections. Assistant News Editor "Our hearts bleed when we lose a member of our commu­
Over 2,000 people crowded nity," said Malloy in his open­into the Sacred 
ing remarks. "We Heart Basilica last celebrate Mara's night for the life, her goodness memorial mass and all that she held for Mara Rose brought to this Fox, the Lyons Hall community." freshman killed McDermott cele­
early Saturday brated Fox's life by morning after calling it a victory being hit by a car -a victory that the while walking back community must 
to campus from not let go, "Mara's Macri's Deli. is a spirit that can­University not die," he said. 
President Father Beatty opened Edward Malloy her remarks by presided over the Mass. Father thanking the entire Notre 
Thomas McDermott, of Dame community and also the 
Campus Ministry, delivered the Lyons community for their homily and Sister Kathleen continued support during the Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall, last few days. 
She continued by likening 

Multicultural awareness will ease racial problems 
By MARIA CULCASI 
News Writer 
The destruction of youth is the main obstacle in bridging the racial gap, according to Rafael Mendez, assistant pro­fessor of Psychology at Bronx Community College. In the public schools of New York City, for example, he said that 50 percent of high school graduates cannot read at a sixth grade level. 
"There is no way genuine learning can take place in these schools," Mendez said during a discussion he gave yesterday with Danny Sledge, dean of stu­dents at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo, titled, "Bridging the Racial Gap." As a result, Mendez continued, the celebration of Fox's life to the Gospel, John 14:1-6, which spoke of leaving peace, love and friendship behind. 
"Mara left her smile and 
• see RITA, page 3 
bright eyes behind for all of us to remember her by," she said. 
Beatty also relayed a mes­sage given to her from Fox's mother, who asked that Mara's presence be remembered. 
Many students who attended the Mass said afterwards that they had never before encoun­tered such a peaceful way of dealing with loss. 
The Fox family was unable to be present at the Memorial Mass. 
The funeral was held yester­day in Reston, Virginia and Fox was buried last evening in Arlington Cemetery. 
children are denied important social development. 
He added that he views multi­culturalism as the "road to em­powerment" for people of color. 
"I view the whole concept of racism not as a problem, but as a process," said Sledge. When viewed as a problem. people will try to solve it, according to him. But with this view, people will only set themselves up for failure and become even more frustrated. If viewed as a pro­cess, however, any progress can have a "positive impact," he said. 
Ken Motolenich-Salas, a Notre Dame student, ques­tioned the speakers on how to get students involved in these multicultural affairs. Accord-
see SLEDGE I page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Thieves not 
• 

worthy of Notre Dan1e 
While most Notre Dame students were busy with their weekend celebra­tions, I was worrying and hoping that my stolen backpack would be returned. 
On Friday evening, as I listened to the band mem­

bers play the Victory 
March in North Dining Tara McDonald 
Hall, a ~eloved Notre Advertising Executive 
Dame family member was ________ stealing my backpack. I assumed that the one similar-looking bag left there was mistaken for my own. 
When I called this freshman, I voiced my con­cern for my lost $200, checkbook, computer disks, books, daily planner, work folder ... well, basically my life. What I heard in return was a very unsympathetic and curt reply, "I wasn't even in North Dining Hall today". Even though my suspicions were raised, I was still hoping that the thief would have enough compassion to return the bag even without the money. 
Six days have passed and daily I go to both dining halls poking through random backpacks that look like mine and every day I am disap­pointed and concerned. 
I am concerned that an important social code has been broken. We all place our confidence in other students when we entrust our bags to those sacred cubby holes in the dining hall. We all understand that what is not rightfully ours should be left for its rightful owner. Simply b!'cause a bag is not being guarded by its owner does not mean it is open for the taking. It amazes me that someone felt they possessed more of a right to my things than I did. 
I am concerned that any student would have the abominable lack of respect for another's belongings to not return the remains of my backpack. What would possess anyone to keep what they have not squandered or could not possibly use? Didn't they at any time think that maybe leaving me with $9.00 in my checking account was enough punishment for trusting my fellow Notre Dame students? I am con­cerned that this thief never thought where they would be without their backpack ... without their life. I am concerned that the thought never crossed their mind to dump the bag in a bush somewhere so it could be returned. 
I am concerned for this thiefs lack of respect for fellow students and I am concerned that he or she is still wandering around campus claim­ing to be one of the "Notre Dame family". We all have left our respective homes and have made a new home here with each other. We live togeth­er, go to class together, go out together, and yes, we eat together. This life requires us to trust each other like a family. Do we want to attend a university where we are forced to carry our things wherever we go for fear that a "family member" would swipe them? Do we want to feel the need to lock our dorm rooms every time we step out for a couple of minutes? 
My father, a Notre Dame alumnus, voiced my greatest concern when I told him of my unfortu­nate situation, which left me with virtually noth­ing. I le was quiet for a moment and then said, "I hate to hear that about Notre Dame stu­dents...! guess I expect more from them". 
I think we all do. Being "Number One" implies more than fancy playing on the football field. Theft degrades this image of Notre Dame and thieves do not deserve to attend a university proudly based on integrity and community. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessrily those o The Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Nancy Dunn  Christopher Mullins  
Suzy Fry  Cheryl Moser  
Allison Ebel  
Spons  
Rian Akey  Graphics  
Christopher Mullins  
Viewpoint  
Mike O'Hara  

Tho Ob..,rv.r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mcm~r of the fu.sociau~d Pres!.. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
South Mrican leaders nearing deadline for new Constitution 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa  constitution for South Africa.  On  
The government and the ANC are  Orania, built in the 1970's to house  Tuesday, however, negotiators approved  
one day away from ratifying a consti­tution offering peace and democracy  black workers and then abandoned, may become the nucleus of an all white, Afrikaner homeland.  the country's first bill of rights, which would permit compensation of millions  

for all races, President F.W. de Kierk said Tuesday. "A new country is being born," de K.lerk said during a surprise visit to the World Trade Center, the scene of harried, last-minute meetings by representatives of 21 political par­ties. De Klerk told reporters he expected the basic constitutional pack­age to be signed on schedule Wednesday. "For us it is a joyous occasion. Tomorrow we will be putting the stamp of approval on a document that will become the new constitution of a new South Africa," he said. Later, De Klerk and ANC leader Nelson Mandela met for four fours to wrap up details. Both sides issued a statement after the meeting saying they expected to resolve all outstanding issues Wednesday morning in time for the scheduled signing ceremony. One major outstanding issue was the Cabinet majority needed for decision­making in the first post-apartheid gov­ernment. Depending on the extent of a predicted ANC election victory, the issue will determine if the ANC can govern by itself or will be forced to seek deals with other parties. Another issue was the percentage of the elected parliament needed to approve a final 

Museum too popular with tourists 
WASHINGTON 
Seven months after opening its doors, the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum is making an unusual request to visitors: Please, if you can, stay away. More than 750,000 people have been to the museum since April, and about 4,000 more arrive each day. Museum officials say both staff and building are feeling the wear and tear. Already, some parts of the brand-new building need repainting and new carpets. Bottlenecks form daily in the exhibits. The museum tells the story of the six mil­lion Jews killed in the Holocaust and of many others who were victims of the Nazis. With such personal artifacts as toothbrushes and shoes of those who died, as well as films, photographs and eyewitness testimony, it brings the Holocaust chillingly to life. Recently, the museum has been surveying its visitors. But nearly half of all visitors surveyed had the same complaint: too crowded. Many said that they didn't have time to read the labels and that they felt rushed, said Peter Hart, who conducted the poll. 
Evicted tenant main suspected ofarson 
LOS ANGELES 
A tenant recently evicted from an apartment building was arrested today for allegedly threatening to burn the place down. The arrest came a day after a fire in the building killed three and injured 19. Julio Garcia, 35, was arrested about 1 a.m. and booked for investigation of making terrorist threats, a felony, said police Detective Tom King. Two weeks earlier, Garcia was evicted from the downtown apartment and there was an angry con­frontation with the manager, the detective said. "He basically said he was going to burn the premises. He told this to the landlady," said King, noting Garcia was arrest­ed for the alleged threat and not the arson. "It was a hell­hole, an inferno. There were flames coming toward me," said Everardo Gutierrez, who escaped with his young niece and nephew by jumping over flames in the hall. 
INDIANA Weather 


NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.........-r ....&.....&.. .....-...­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 10 t 993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB AuocJBtod Presa 
H  L  Dallas  52  44  New York  60  49  
Atlanta  81  61  Denver  54  18  Philadelphia 61  52  
Baltimore  62  49  London  46  38  Rome  66  52  
Boston  58  47  Los Angeles 77  49  San Francisco 64  46  
Chicago  42  38  Miami  82  77  Seattle  49  41  
Columbus  53  45  Minneapolis 38  32  Seoul  66  45  
New Orll•ans 81  66  Toronto  68  55  

of blacks forced from their land since 1913. Negotiators planned to vote on the rest of the package Wednesday morning. The agreements then go to Parliament next week for its approval, setting the stage for the nation's first multiracial election. Government sources said the final charter could still be adjusted to satisfy the Freedom Alliance, the main opponents of the talks. The alliance, which groups well­armed white, right-wing organizations and the powerful Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party, warned the government and ANC against finalizing any constitu­tion without its consent. The proposed accord worked in two years of negotia­tions lays out a blueprint for a color­blind South Africa following the April election. After Parliament approves the draft constitution, a temporary execu­tive commission representing all races would begin overseeing government decisions, giving blacks a role in run­ning the country for the first time. The election next year will choose a propor­tionally elected parliament that will form an interim government to rule the country until 1999. The new parliament also would draft a final constitution based on principles of the draft docu-
Wholesome students killed over drug debt 
FORT WORTH, Texas 

To their families and friends, Channing Elizabeth Freelove and Melanie Golchert were wholesome, hard­working college students who did everything together. Over the weekend, they died together, shot to death in a deserted field in southwest Fort Worth. On Tuesday, two women were arrested on charges they solicited two men to kill Freelove over what police described as a soured lesbian relationship and drugs. Meanwhile, news that the slain women had been involved in dealing drugs shocked the community. "I can't explain why these two particular individuals, who at least at this point do not appear to have been from a socially deprived or ... financially deprived environment, would choose to enter into this lifestyle," Fort Worth Police Chief Thomas Windham said. Authorities believe that Freelove and Golchert were killed fleeing town to escape a $6,000 drug debt. Freelove had asked her parents Friday for $6,000 to pay off her drug dealer, but her parents had refused. 
Potential mugging victim kills his attackers 
NEWYOHK 

It seemed like a perfect night for a mugging. The street was dark, the hour late, the Brooklyn neighborhood rough. But the teen-age boys who stalked Arthur Boone as he left a corner market Sunday missed one thing: the .44-caliber Magnum tucked in his belt. One of the mug­gers, nicknamed "B-Boy," put the barrel of a BB gun to Boone's head. The other, "Taz," reached for his wallet. Then Boone fired two shots heard 'round the city. In what investigators are calling a swift act of self-defense, Boone shot and killed his assailants with the unlicensed .44. He waited for police to arrive, told them he was a victim of past muggings and quietly surrendered. As news of the incident spread through the crime-weary city, some hailed the 41-year-old machine worker as a hero. 
Wednesday, November 17, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Feb. trial date set for Rita, Prosecutors granted more flexibility 
By LAURIE ASSEO more aware of the harsh penal­lawyers agree that anticipation
blood levels indicate D UI 
Associated Press ties, the convictions went down. of harsh sentences can weigh 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame law student arrested in a drunk driving ac­cident Friday night had a blood alcohol level of 0.14 percent three hours after the accident, the South Bend Tribune re­ported yesterday. 
John Rita, 24, appeared Monday in Superior Court fac­ing charges of causing a death while driving drunk and leaving the scene of a fatal accident. A Feb. 15 trial date was set. 
Rita is accused of hitting Lyons Hall freshman Mara Fox, 18, while driving intoxicated early Saturday morning. 
Fox was walking with friends along Douglas Road on her way home from Macri's Deli. She suffered head injuries and was pronounced dead when she ar­rived at St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
After fleeing the scene, Rita parked his car in the parking lot of Kidz Bedzzz on Grape Road, walked to his apartment and went to bed, according to authorities. Three of his friends in the car reported the crash to police. 
Rita told police he had con­sumed "three beers and a shot" before 11:30 p.m. Friday, according to court documents. The Tribune reported that he told police he knew he had hit something on Douglas Road. 
r-----· 
' 

WASHINGTON The Clinton administration is backing ofT from an aggressive 
Bush policy that required federal prose­cutors to seek the most seri­ous charge they believed they could prove in court. 
Attorney General 

Reno's new policy allows prosecutors to consider whether the punish­ment would fit the crime, spokesman Carl Stern said Tuesday. 
"We're not talking about soft on crime vs. hard on crime," Stern said. "The plain fact is that as jurors become more and The idea is to reverse the trend toward fewer convictions." 

But Paul McNulty of the First Freedom Coalition, which backs tough anti-crime laws, said the new policy will create dispari­ties in sentencing and under­mine Congress' intent in enact­ing strict sentencing laws. 
"If the Department of Justice has a problem with federal standards in terms of their severity. they should come to Congress and have Congress modify those statutes," said McNulty, a Justice Department spokesman during the Bush administration. 
The new policy is prompted by the attorney general's con­cern over the effects of federal mandatory minimum sen­tences, Stern said. 
Jurors do not set sentences in federal cases, but many on jurors considering a defen­dant's guilt or innocence. 
Federal law sets minimum sentences for many crimes, particularly drug and weapon crimes. 
Mandatory sentences for fed­eral drug crimes are based on the amount of the drug in­volved, and people can win shorter sentences only if pros­ecutors agree they provided evidence against other defen­dants. 
That means a minor player in a drug case -who has little information to give prosecutors -can draw a longer prison term than a major player with more information to trade for a shorter sentence, said Malcolm Young of the Sentencing Project, which opposes manda­tory sentences. 



Sheik: not a conspirator offear 

SOUTH BEND 4121 S. Michigan«<& 31 South) 291-9200 
MISHAWAKA 5327 Grape Road 
(1/2 Mi. S. ot University Part< Mall) 277-8121 
By LARRY NEUMEISTER ders. 

Associated Press "I am not a conspirator," the 
blind Muslim cleric said 
NEW YORK Tuesday in an interview with 
In his first interview since several journalists at the 
being charged with conspiring Metropolitan Correctional 
to overthrow the U.S. govern­Center. He said the U.S. gov­
ment, Sheik Omar Abdel­ernment had created the con­
Rahman denied any involve­spiracy with the help of gov­
ment with a planned terrorism ernment witness Emad Salem. 
spree of bombings and mur-Abdel-Rahman, 55, is 
FREE WINGS WEDNESDAY 9:00-11 :00 
rN'BllllliN'BllllliN'BlllllliN'BllllJ 'IE JUilJIE JUilJIE JUilJIE JUirw' BllllliN'BllllliN'BllllliN'Bill~ 'IE JUilJIE JUilJIE JUilJIE JUt rN' Bill,
'IE Thursday @Alumni I Senior Club. Be There. Jfli 
rN'BllllliN'BllllliN' BllllliN' Bill~ 'IE JUilJIE JflllJIE JUilJIE JUt rN'BllllliN'tlllllliN'BllllliN'Bill 'IE JUilJIE JUilJIE JUilJIE JUJ 811llliN'Sill 


charged with leading at least 15 men in planning a series of bombings, kidnappings and murders. He is being held with­out bond pending a trial in fed­eral court. 
The conspiracy allegedly in­cluded the Feb. 26 World Trade Center bombing, which killed six people and injured more than 1,000. Later bombings were planned at the United Nations, FBI offices in New York and tunnels and a bridge linking New York and New Jersey, prosecutors say. 
"How can we conspire against America while the American people were very generous to us and they ac­cepted us here?" Abdel­Rahman said. 
Abdel-Rahman lashed out against Salem, the governmen­t's key witness in the conspir­acy trial. Salem was a govern­ment informant while he as­sisted the sheik, taping hun­dreds of hours of conversations with men who were later ar­rested in the terrorism plot. 
Have you heard about Communities ND? 
It's a chance for men and women at Notre Dame to ... meet new people ... read and talk about the Sunday Gospels before Mass ... share honest discussion and learn about your faith 
YOU probably know somebody who's in Communities ND already --you can try it too! 
Find out more! 
COME TO THE INFORMATION NIGHT Wednesday, Nov. 17 9:00 -10:00 p.m. Faculty Dining Room (south dining hall) 
refreshments will be served 
SIGN UPS AFrER TIIANKSGIVING ... NEW COMMUNITIES BEGIN JANUARY 15th ! ! 
u,QUESTIONS?? CALL CAMPUS MINISTRY AT 631-5242 
-
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


that and other attacks. An investigation conducted
Somalia New strategy to combat AIDS
earlier for the United Nations 
continued from page 1 

The vote Tuesday night can­celled a June 6 Security Council resolution that indirectly blamed Aidid for the killings of 24 Pakistani peacekeepers and said the perpetrators of the at­tack should be arrested and tried. 
The new resolution asks Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to "suspend ar­rest actions" in Somalia and begin a new investigation into 
Sledge 
continued from page I 
ing to Sledge, the issue is an educational one. Students must be shown that there are tangible benefits in becoming knowledgeable about different cultures. "In this global soci­ety, it is impossible to remain isolated and be successful." "People are so fixed in their own schedules, that to do something new is hard. That's the challenge," said Mendez. 
Once people become inter­ested, they must be encouraged to communicate with each other, Sledge said. He added that in institutions of higher education, when people begin talking about the issues and put a focus on them, the ten­sions are often increased. Hather than back away from 
BI~ 

by American University profes­sor Tom Farer found Aidid re­sponsible for the Pakistani deaths. Following that investi­gation. the United Nations is­sued a warrant for Aidid's ar­rest and offered a $25,000 re­ward for his capture, and the Clinton administration sent 400 Rangers to Somalia to hunt for Aidid. 
The United Nations has al­ready moved away from hunt­ing down Aidid in the past month. 
them, as many administrations are inclined to do, he said, "if mediated properly, these ten­sions can eventually become very productive." 
"People are tired of being preached to," Sledge said, "If you can experience it for your­self, the feelings become real." 
Mendez agreed, saying that people should not try to orga­nize new events, but rather "go to the masses" to encourage in­teraction. 
Both Mendez and Sledge said that Notre Dame's Urban Plunge program was a good way to open awareness among students, and encouraged all students to get involved in such a program. 
The Multicultural Student Affairs office sponsored the fo­rum, which was the second in a series. Iris Outlaw, director of the office, mediated the discus­sion. 
MONDAY NOVEMBER·zz 
AT•7:30 
On sale now at all TlcketMaster outlets 
and the State Theatre Ticket Office. 
Charge by phone at 6r6-345-6500. 
Ever wo•der what happ..s to all diose leftov• t-slllrts at tlte -d of tlte tourl TRACKS .._ official co•c.t t-s.lrts a ••ts for 
$12.50 ••lie supplies ...t. 
• Nlrv••• •Baii'VIs a ..ttll..cl 
• Red Hot c•••• Peppers •MTY 
• Screaml•g T..-•Morrissey 
•Le••Y K111vltz •Ponao tor Pyros ....... •Detl.epp..-d 
and MORE $12.50 
By CLARE NULLIS 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 
The World Health Organization, in a new research strategy it says could revolu­tionize AIDS prevention, is searching for a safe foam or gel to kill the IIIV virus inside a woman's vagina. 
The U.N. health agency held out hopes that such a substance could be ready within two to three years. 
Existing research has focused on the high-profile, high-cost search for a vaccine, while the prevention campaign has con­centrated on promoting the use of condoms among men. 
Barrier methods for women -who now account for nearly half of all newly infected adults -have until now been low pri­ority despite lobbying from women's health groups. 
"Faced with the prospect of at least an additional 1 million women infected worldwide with HIV every year -two every minute -it is clear that we need a new method to enable women to protect themselves from HIV infection," said Dr. Michael Merson, head ofWHO's Global Program on AIDS. 

Planning on being in Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, or Pennsylvania !his holiday season? Here's your chance to ring in the New Year with The Prudential. 
If you're an Information Systems, Accounting, Finance, Economics, Business, Math or Liberal Arts major, we encourage you to submit your resume for our review. If you meet our requirements, you'll be invited to interview with us between December 27 and January 14. 
As one of the world's largest and most diversified financial services organizations, The Prudential offers challenge, diversity, exposure and stability to ambitious, highly-motivated individuals. Send your resume by December 7, to: The Prudential, Corporate College Relations, Dept. NO, 213 Washington Street, Newark, NJ 07102­3992. An equal opportunity employer. 
ThePrudential~ 
The health agency estimates that 75 percent of all IIIV infec­tions are spread through het­erosexual intercourse. 
lt•says an estimated 13 mil­lion adults have been infected with Human Immunodeficiency Virus since it first spread in the early 1980s. More than 2.5 mil­lion are thought to have gone on to develop Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
Even with billions of dollars being spent in the United States 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
Love from (jranapa & J'ranl(ie 
and other countries on research into a preventive vaccine, WIIO officials concede there is likely to be anything effective before the year 2000. 
In the meantime, condoms continue to offer the only real form of protection for sexually active adults. But men fre­quently refuse to wear them. The female condom is becom­ing more available but is ex­pensive and -for many -in­convenient. 
------~-----­

----------------------------~~------~ 
Wednesday, November 17, 1993 
Male ND student taken into custody, shoplifting 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
A male Notre Dame student was taken into custody yester­day afternoon in Morrissey Hall after he was observed shoplift­ing in Hammes Bookstore, ac­cording to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security. 
The incident was referred to Student Affairs, and Rakow would not release the student's name. 
The student threw down what he was holding and fled the bookstore after seeing Security offic~rs, Rakow said. He then ran into Morrissey, where Security blocked off all exits and began searching the building. 
He was finally found in his room hiding under a bed. 
After the man was appre­hended, he was interviewed by Security and released, Rakow said. 
~(\ We're Still Open ~r. 
c.O E'E'
~oQ Daily from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. .oo.oc:
~& ~~ 
THE COMMONS 
"The Tradition Continues" 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Israeli withdrawal date in doubt 
By NICOLAS TATRO 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
A handover of authority in the occupied lands appears in­creasingly unlikely by the Dec. 13 deadline set down in the Israel-PLO peace accord, Israeli and Palestinian officials said Tuesday. 
A holdup in the Palestinian autonomy plan would delay the start of Israeli troop with­drawals from the territories, seriously undercutting the ac­cord at time when public sup­port seems to be eroding be­cause of mounting bloodshed. 
In Cairo, Israeli ne·gotiators reported progress on a major point of contention: security ar­rangements for Israelis in oc­cupied lands following an Israeli pullout. But a statement from the delegation did not say whether the progress meant that the deadline could be met. 
Violence has escalated in the territories and Israeli-held land in southern Lebanon, where some Jewish and Arab radicals oppose the autonomy accord that Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization signed two months ago. 

On Tuesday, two Palestinians were killed and two Israelis were wounded in the occupied lands. And Jewish settlers in the West Bank town of Hebron overturned market stalls, smashed cars and broke wind­shields to retaliate for a hatchet attack that wounded an Israeli man on Monday. 
In southern Lebanon, Shiite Muslim guerrillas wounded two Israeli soldiers and two allied Lebanese militiamen in a ground assault. Israeli war­planes struck Hezbollah guer­rilla bases in retaliation. Hezbollah said one guerrilla was killed and two were wounded in the violence. 
A Palestinian source at the Israel-PLO talks in Cairo said the sides were so far apart that negotiations may go on longer than expected. 
The major sticking points, the source said, are the scope of Israel's pullout from the Gaza Strip and Jericho on the West Bank and Palestinian demands that Israel free some 10,500 Palestinian prisoners. 
In Jerusalem, Haim Ramon, Israel's health minister, told reporters the PLO was "not very organized" and that talks on transferring authority in Gaza and Jericho might not be complete by Dec. 13. 
"Despite the difficulties, we will reach agreement, maybe not Dec. 13, but by the end of December," he said. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was quoted in Israeli media Tuesday as saying: "I wouldn't fall off a chair if it took another month to reach an agreement." 
In Cairo, the Israeli delega­tion issued a statement claim­ing headway in the talks: "There is a closing of gaps that is allowing the talks to continue in working groups that will deal with security details and also on the transfer of authority on civilian issues." 
Some Palestinians viewed the prospect of delay with alarm. 

For more information call 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
CLASSES 
Reports ofIranian death squad killings condemned 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 

Amnesty International ex­pressed concern at the killing of Iranian dissidents abroad by suspected death squads from Tehran. 
In a report issued Wednesday, the human rights watchdog also listed continuing Iranian abuses including tor­ture, unfair trial, excessive use of the death penalty and viola­tion of women's rights. 
In a report titled "Iran ­Victims of Human Rights Violations," the Nobel Prize­winning human rights group expressed concern at reports that Iran is sending execution squads abroad. 
The human rights group stressed its opposition to "deliberate and unlawful killings by governments, which result from a policy at any level of government to eliminate or permit the elimination of spe­cific individuals or groups." 
Five men went on trial Oct. 28 in Berlin, charged with 
!;~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~killingfuurira~~Kurd~h 

You are cordially invited to attend a 
PRESENTATION 
on FIXED INCOME SALES & TR.ADING on Wednesday, November 17, 1993 7:00pm 
Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
All undergraduates are invited to join Lehman Brothers professionals 
LEHMAN BROTHERS 

opposition figures in a Berlin restaurant 14 months ago on orders from Tehran. The de­fendants include an alleged member of Iran's secret ser­vice. 
Those killed were Sadiq Sharafkindi, the head of the Kurdish Democratic Party of Iran, and three colleagues. 
Amnesty also mentioned the case of Ali Akbar Ghorbani, a member of the opposition Mujahedeen Khalq, who was abducted in Istanbul in June 1992 and whose body was found seven months later in a forest. 
Turkey accused Iran of insti­gating his killing and the mur­ders of other Iranian dissidents or opponents of Islamic funda­mentalism in Turkey, saying the killers were trained in Iran. 
France, meanwhile, has is­sued warrants for the arrest of two Iranians who are suspected of helping the killers of former Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar, who was murdered along with his personal secre­tary in August 1991. 
Earlier this year, U.S. Secretary of State VVarren Christopher dubbed Iran "one of the principal sources of sup­port for terrorist groups around the world." 
CORRECTION 
Man (R) 7:30. 10:00 
Rides Again (PG) 1:15, 3:15.5:15,7:15. 9:15 Look Who's Talking Now (PG13) 1:30, 3:30. 5:30. 7:30, 9:30 RoboCop Ill (P613) 2:00.4:30 The Beverly Hlllbllfles (PG) 2:00, 4:45. 7:00, 9:15 The Nightmare Balore Christmas (PG) 1 :00. 3:00, 5:00. 7:00. 9:00 the Three Musketeers (PG) 2:00. 4:30, 7:15, 9:45 
Flesh & Bone (R) 1:45,4:30. 7:15. 
10:00 Malice (R) 2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:30 Rudy (PG) 1:30, 4:15, 7:00, 9:45 


VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Wednesday, November 17, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in·Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredirh Mc-cullough Advcnising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... G<orge Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Aca:nt Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .................................jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor............. jennifer llahrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Full truth needed by everyone 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily r<flccr the policies of the administra­tion ofeither insritution. Tht-news is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcprcscm the opinion of rhc majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edimr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saint Mary's Edi[Or. Commenraries, leners and Inside Columns present lhe views of lhe aurhors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free cxpres~ion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EdirorNiowpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Adverlising  631-6900/8840  
Spons  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  

Dear Editor: 
After reading Professor Rice's column (The Observer, Nov. 8) I felt compelled to record my thoughts about homosexuality. 
I am choosing, however. to remain anonymous, in the first place. because I am not con­vinced that now is the time for me to be openly gay on campus. I also do not believe Notre Dame is an environment where one can safely reveal these matters at a public level. 
r choose when to "come out" and to whom, and even letters as provocative as Hice's do not affect the way I do things. One might consider me a represen­tative of many lesbians and gay men who, to a large degree, remain private about their ori­entation yet who have resolved to do everything in their power to accept every aspect of them­selves. 
Hice has every reason to fear that not everyone at Notre Dame is judging homosexuals or reminding them constantly of how "disordered" they are. There are a good number of individuals who put into prac­tice the very act that Hice calls for in his letter: they ensure that we listen to the "whole truth" about homosexuality. 
At Notre Dame, it is not diffi­cult to learn the church's posi­tion on homosexuality. I assume that every member of the Notre Dame community who reads the Observer is aware of it. 
Hice has informed us repeat­edly of the viewpoint of the church generally and Cardinal Hatzinger specifically, and it seems to me fair that he do so. Still, there are many per­spectives that homosexuals in this country and especially on 
DOONESBURY 
!?&MEMBeR, IF YCXI GET('AI£HT 'PARKING" 5TOCJ<., YOUr< oe­F&N5815 7HfS: £VER.Y8(){}Y 
OOC.5 IT, BUT I O!ON'T KNOW IT.WAS GOING av. 60TIP 
/ 

this campus very rarely have brought to their attention, and in my estimation, these need to be taken into consideration if one is to know the "whole truth". 
When I was first "coming out", I found individuals and groups of people who led me to others, even to religious within the church, who encouraged me to accept and who I am. 
I was given literature about the different interpretations of passages in scripture that men­tion homosexuality; I was told about the different animals that are naturally homosexual; I was given reports of psycholog­ical studies which. on one hand, reveal the inherent and unchangeable nature of homo­sexuality and, on the other, give us a more realistic glimpse of the complexity of human sexu­ality. r was taught about AIDS and about the precautions that one needs to take if he or she is going to act on his or her sex­uality. And I was told that cer­tain people can clearly see the reflection of Christ in the com­mitment that exists in certain same sex relationships. 
Every effort was made to pre­sent me with both sides of the story. r skeptically agreed to consider this new information and these other perspectives. 
No one was urging me to view the issue a certain way nor to live my life in a particular man­ner; rather, I was given the op­portunity to come to my own conclusions after having edu­cated myself about the topic. As a result. I was prevented from blindly accepting the view that the homosexual orientation is "disordered". Today, I have many friends heterosexual and homosexual: students and fac­ulty who know me as a gay per­son committed to offering sup­port to those dealing with their sexuality. Almost everyone who I have come out to on this cam­pus has assured me of their support for me and for other gay people at Notre Dame. I thank God for these people be­cause they have helped me make progress on the path to self-acceptance. 
Yes, Rice, let's urge gay supporters to give homo­sexuals the whole truth. I think its crucial to do so. Moreover, let's not forget that part of the process includes telling everyone that, on a world scale, homosexual activity plays only a minor role in the spread of AIDS. The church has taken certain stances and, centuries later. reversed its position, realizing that it had been mistaken. 
We also need to remind ev­eryone, as a friend did me re­cently, that Jesus Christ had more to say about those who abused their power to mar­ginalize certain people than he did about homosexuals. 
Homosexuals need to hear the whole truth. they also need to learn about the dis­coveries that have been made about homosexuality so they can make an educated de­cision. Otherwise, people will remain ignorant and can be easily manipulated into hating themselves and internalizing society's homophobia. 
ANONYMOUS 
University ofNoue Dame 
It is usually the policy of Viewpoint not to print anony­mous letters, but due to the sensitive nature of this piece, the writer has remained 
nameless. 

TO 5HO.W YalWHAT I Mt:.LW/ 
MR. !BWOOO, LA5TFR!PAY; t.&T'5 TAl<& A UXJI< AT 50MB 
YOUR AccmNTBALANCE .WAS 

OF YOUR 5TUO£NT-MAVA6BO 
1/0,540. tUHEN 7H8 MARK£T POI<TFOI-/OS. ISMR.tEAIAJ(X)O 
CliJ'3tl} y~~ fT57(X){) H&R£ 7DOAY? 
AT$!7, 790. HOII.J [}() YCXI &XPLAIN THe O/?A11ATiv TIU0-0.4V 6AINOF IV?O? 
~----.~ 

Reader finds alcohol line 'irresponsible journalism' 
Dear Editor: 
When I flipped through last Friday's Observer (Nov. 12, 1993) and began to read the sports extra, I was disappoint­ed to read a blatant condona­tion of excessive drinking in the second sentence of the cover story as the writer referred to "One night in a drunken stupor." 
Presumably. he or she be­lieved that the nighL before the big game would be sptmt as such by much of the stu­dent body. 
At the time, I muttered something to myself about irresponsible journalism and was saddened by the perva­sive role that alcohol plays as a form of entertainment on this campus. 
As an RA, I immediately cringed at the kind of exam­ple such obvious approval of drunkenness sets for our stu­dent body. As ·a student, nor­mally very proud of this insti­tution, I hoped none of the weekend visitors to our cam­pus would form their impres­sions of Notre Dame based on this remark. And then I went on with my day. 
Very early the next morn­ing, I received a phone call from a friend who informed me of the alcohol-related acci­dent that had resulted in the death of Mara Fox. My copy of the sports extra sat next to the phone, and as my eyes came to rest on that second sentence-"One night in a drunken stupor"-anger and disgust welled up inside me once again. 
One night in someone's drunken stupor had ended 
with Mara's death. 
Even if no one had died in alcohol-related accidents this weekend, even if our campus hadn't been awakened by this. tragedy, and regardless of the context of the remark in ques­tion, the Observer staff is guilty of blatantly irresponsi­ble journalism. 
As a source of information that reaches a large percent­age of the student body. the Observer should feel an obligation to avoid the promo­tion or condonation of drunk­enness. 
The editor who allowed this sentence to remain in the text and the writer of the article have done their fellow stu­dents and the broader Notre Dame-Saint Mary's communi­ty a disservice in condoning, and in fact mass-producing their condonation, of exces­sive use of alcohol. 
I am not necessarily a proponent of abstinence. None of us, I think, is naive enough to propose that a large number of college stu­dents don't use aleohol. I am, however, a proponent of responsible drinking for those individuals who choose to drink. Although I personally do not see the fun in drinking my God-given capabilities into oblivion, I am loath to make a moral judgement of those who do. I do not equivocate, how­ever, in my conviction that a student newspaper should not be an advertisement for such activities. 
MOLLY SPENCER 
Senior 
Pangborn flail 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
OMY, 6CXJ[),
I57VU31T 
8UTR&M£M­
F.ROMMY 
88R-OTHeRS
PAI<£NT'3' 
Oil? IT. f?£()f'U3
COACt:OUNT. 
YOU 77<I.ETf30.
I 
~"" 

//Heaven holds a place for those who pray." 
-Paul Simon, entertainer 
, 
1 
I I 
I
ACCENT I 
Wednesday, November 17, 1993 I 
page 7 

STRAIGHT OUTTA 'WAKA 
Grandmaster Flash and the dining hall Dope Tracks 
Mr. Hooper, the grocer from Sesame Street, once said that, "Every child has a dream to chase." A sage for the 70's, I took those words to heart. Would I be a doctor? a plumber? a Solid Gold dancer? As the early 80's slowly faded, I 


set my sights on music, Kris Kazlauskas with an eye on becoming a Accent Columnist 
member of the entertain­ment titan known simply ________ as "Menudo." 1 
I had always thought that when a child devel­oped into a man, he reached a stage called puberty, and if he was good enough, talented enough, he could join this elite group. As it so often does, time allowed my dream to wither. The once immortal Menudo experienced a slow death as well, eventually being relegated to the bargain tapes bin at Phar-Mor. 
Now, a boy of ten, I needed a niche. An answered prayer, the Almighty One sent down the electrifying fever known as "break-danc­ing." This was it. I spent the majority of 1984 backspinning on cardboard while blasting Herbie Hancock's "Rockit." 
The popularity of "dolphin-diving" into the "centipede" eventually spawned two movies as big as E.T. The first was aptly titled, "Breakin' ," and I had to have it on videotape. 
The second, a movie that I believe became a Broadway musical, was titled, "Beat Street." This second movie talked about kids finding a direction in their lives through rap. I became a slave to the soundtrack, and every night before bed, I played that intro that I knew so well­"Beat street, the king of the beat, you see 'em rockin' that beat from across the street. Uh­heh-heh, beat street is a lesson too, because you can't let the streets beat you." The beats were fresh. The threads were !ly. I was going to be a rapper. 
Unfortunately, my start in the business was slow. I did benefit shows for the kids on the cul­de-sac, but I didn't land any major gigs. The ·unior high years saw the introduction of a rap­name "M.C. Totally Rad," but it didn't stick. By high-school. I had an acoustic guitar on back­up, but the L.L. Cool J/James Taylor style never worked. I needed an image overhaul. 
My first day at Notre Dame, I met Chris Parazin. While in a support group for emotion­ally unstable students, I found out that he too wanted to become a rapper. We found a OJ at a laundromat in Elkhart. and formed a group. With the idea of pioneering a new field, we became the first group to explore "Dining Rap." This field of music combines a raucous, rebel­lious sound, a heavy drum-track and lyrics essentially about the dining hall. 
Keeping in the spirit, we became "CON-B" 
and "YPH-1," acronyms for "Continental break­
fast" and "Yankee Pot Roast. " Our "louder than 
a bomb" mentality made us big hits at amateur 
night at Shoney's, and as a result, we will be 
releasing a CD in early December. 
Titled, "Punchin' In," the CD depicts life in the 
dining hall through several perspectives. The 
opening song, "Gafflin' Yo Mama" speaks of 
urban rage taken out on a female who likes Yo 
Cream ®. "Eldorado Drive-By" is specifically 
aimed at the chef behind California Eldorado 
casserole. In our socially aware tracks, 
"L.A.P.D. Pork Loin" takes a shot at the cops 
while "Checkin' Patty" describes the often diffi­
cult toils that a "woman of the night" must face. 
Harder songs like "Turkey Overturned," 
"Chuckin' Tenders," "Alfredon't." "The Sonic 
Hash Brown Sound," and "Blintzkrieg" make 
this debut a true kaleidoscope of rap that every 
Public Enemy fan will surely want to add to 
his/her collection. 
So what does it all mean? Simply this: Mr. 
I looper planted the seed, "Beat Street" was the 
fertilizer, and the achievement of my dream 
was the result. So whether you want to explore 
distant worlds, fight the forces of evil, or be a 
mid-wife to cattle, keep the dream alive, and i 
any one doubts your ability, tell them "I can be 
who I want to be because YPR-1 said I could." 
Peace. 
Festival of Trees brings an early Christmas to Chapin St. Health Center 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
Christmas, complete with decorated trees, teddy bears and Hegis Philbin, will be coming a little early to South Bend this year. 
It will be coming in the form of the tenth annual Festival of Trees, a com­munity celebration of the holiday sea­son sponsored and organized by the Saint Joseph's Medical Center Auxiliary, which will be held Nov. 19­22 at the Century Center in South Bend. 
All proceeds from this year's festival will be donated to the Chapin Street Health Center, a South Bend medical facility which provides primary healthcare services for families and individuals who are neither eligible for government assistance nor can afford treatment. 
Located at 305 S. Chapin St. in South Bend, the Chapin Street Health Center was founded in 1986 by Sister Maura Brannick, C.S.C., is open five days a week, and is presently serving over 450 patients a month. 
Jeanne Weir, publicity chairperson of the festival, said that the Auxiliary last year chose the Chapin Center as the beneficiary of its efforts because the center provides services to a part of the community which desperately needs them. 
"The people the center helps are the 'new poor,' hard-working people who are being paid minimum wage, and who have no medical insurance," said Weir. "(The Chapin Center) is such a wonderful community." 
"Interest in this (festival) has grown tremendously within the community," said Weir. "It's a wonderful project, and a fun weekend." 
The annual income on the average 
Chapin Center patient is under 
$10,000; 68% of the center's patients 
are women, and most are single par­
ents with an average of four children. 
The facility is staffed by more than 65 area doctors who donate their time, along with volunteers who pro­vide more than 360 hours of clerical and nursing assistance a month. 
In addition, 100 medical specialists throughout the South Bend­Mishawaka area care for patients referred from the Center free of charge. 
The Center does not operate for free, however. Rent and utilities on 

the building, as well as medications for patients and salaries for staff, totaling $365,000, must still be paid. 
In order to defray some of these costs, the Festival of Trees has planned several events. 
On Fri., Nov. 19, from 6:30-11 p.m., a gala auction, with Regis and Joy Philbin and Rudy Ruettiger in atten­dance, will be held at the Century Center. 
For $40, guests will receive cock­tails, music and dinner, as well as a seat at the auction of some special trees donated by area businesses. 
These trees range from miniature t.rees to large "theme" trees. 
This year, two of the biggest theme trees will be "The Great Indiana University Tree," which has on its branches tickets to an IU basketball game, gift certificates for IU para­phernalia, and the like, and "The Great Golf Tree," which will have, among other things, a VIP package for four at the Knollwood and South Bend Country Clubs, and a 4-day, all­expenses-paid golf trip for four to Phoenix. 
Wier said that the bidding on these two trees will begin at $3000 and $3500, respectively. Last year, a Notre Dame tree sold for $7000. 
On Sat. morning, from 8:30-10 a.m., a Teddy Bear breakfast will be held for children ages two to six, in which children bring their favorite teddy, and have breakfast with Santa Claus. 
Throughout the weekend, visitors can shop at the booths in the Century Center offering miniature trees, wreaths, holiday decorations. 
In addition, students will be able to find unique Christmas gifts for sale, including dolls and dollhouses hand­made by a South Bend artist, and ornaments made by area children from local public and parochial ele­mentary schools. 
Tickets for the Festival of Trees are 
$3 for adults, $1 for children 12 and 
under, and can be purchased in 
advance at the flower shop at Saint 
Joseph's Medical Center, or at the 
door of the Century Center. 
The Century Center will be open on 
Sat., Nov. 20 from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., 
Sun., Nov. 21 from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., 
and on Mon., Nov. 22 from 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m. 

Harris uses comedy to explore "Who shot J.F.K. ?" 
By GERALDINE HAMIL TON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Learning is made easy by political humorist, Bob Harris as he teaches audiences in his multimedia presentation, "Who Shot J.F.K.?" about what he contends is the true story behind the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
Harris believes that President Kennedy was not mur­dered by Lee Harvey Oswald, rather he was killed by two gunmen firing from the front as part of CIA efforts to over­throw Castro in Cuba and increase American involvement in Vietnam. 
The killing of Kennedy was brought about by precisely the same type of secret extra governmental activity responsible for Watergate and the Iran-Contra Affair, claims Harris. Understanding JFK's death illuminates con­temporary politics. 
"Who Shot J.F.K.?" is labeled as a comedy/scare tactic. The humor is derived from the absurdity of the official claims about the assassination and the fright comes from the audience's realization of the huge magnitude of the government's cover-up. 
It is important to note, said Harris that "Who Shot J.F.K.?" is based on hard, factual evidence. The audience is provided with a bibliography so that every statement made in the lecture can be double checked. 
Harris is the creator of "Who Shot J.F.K.?," one of his many in a long list of accomplishments. A native of Cleveland, Harris was reading newspapers at 3 years old, playing half a dozen instruments at ten, Valedictorian of the University School at sixteen, and degree in electrical engineering and physics at Case Western Reserve University by the age of twenty. 
After a few years Harris became disillusioned with engi­neering jobs because he felt that such an occupation was dependent on helping the perpetuation of war. He attempted to make a living writing a variety of things, such as, a novel, screenplay, poetry, and newspaper and magazine articles, but was not very successful. 
Harris discovered his love for comedy while at an improv show at Second City. He has shown so much suc­cess in the comedy field that The Chicago Tribune de­scribed him as "wickedly observant, a comedian to watch." 
Harris' knack for addressing serious issues, such as the Kennedy assassination, has always been the strongest part of his act. His lecture program, "Who Shot J.F.K.? ," spon­sored by the Student Union Board will be held in 101 DeBartolo on November 18 at 7:30p.m. 

page 8 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 17, 1993
r 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
I 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP BC Stud. Tckt. NEED 3 MALE STUDENI OR GA TIC-TOE SIGN 1
I' NOTICES EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE 27S scientific calculator, with Best Offer TICKETS FOR BC-ND GAMEIII WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, all documentation. Program Alice 4-0505 PLEASE CALL-RICH X-4499 EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE formulas and love life. HP DeskJet HAVE FAITH-WILL DEFEND
~ Help! Anyone NJ or NY bound for LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY printer (for IBM). Print in the NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­BC stud tix for sale best offer by I Thanksgiving? 1"11 help w/ gas tolls. HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER privacy of your own room. LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221-Friday Amy x4813 LAY APOLOGIST/EVANGELIST whatever. Elaine 42342. SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE! Call Rolando at 631-4541. 6183. WILL DEFEND THE CATHOLIC CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31 B.C. Tick., sen. 2735909, Jack FAITH AGAINST ANYONE -STU­
I' JAMNESTY BAHAMA· CRUISE For Sale: GA's for all games. 277-DENT OR FACULTV. DEBATE AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -5 Days 4 niles $288/couple 1659. FORMAT ACCEPTABLE. sponsered ACCOUSTIC CAFE Earn up to $2000+/month working Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri FOR SALE: 3 BC STUD TIXS (219) 272-9350. Thursday, Nov. 18 at9:00 pm in the on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­1 0-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext. 607 Best Offer 288 -1 806 Huddle panies. World travel (Hawaii, Need BC Tickets! FREE DAVE McMAHON Featuring: Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). 94 SPRING BREAK TRIPS REA­x2846 2 BC GA's FOR SALE TRUE NORTH Summer and Full-Time employment SONABLE PRICES TO JAMAICA, Call Todd at 233-5475 Adoption: the placement of your BILLRACINO available. No experience neces­PADRE, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, child may be the most precious gift SABOR LATINO sary. For more information call 1-FLORIDA! II I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON They came last year to see an you could make. NO alum wants to SLEIGHT OF HAND 206-634-0468 ext. C5584 CALL CHRIS @ (219) 289-2767 COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 undefeated BC team kick Irish bun. be mom through your gift. THE ROAD APPLES They were denied. Professional couple, country home, VICTORIA'S REAL SECRET BEACH or SKI Group Promoter. IBM Compatible For Salel!! NEED 4 BC GAS CALL PAT X1689 This year, they return to see BC with lots of love and faith. Strictly ·To promote awareness of human Small or larger groups. Your's -386-20/25 Processor; 4 MB RAM dash the hopes of the No. 1 Irish. legal. Call Tricia and Jim rights abuses. FREE, discounted or CASH. Call -14" SVGA Color Monitor I NEED BC TIX I laugh. 1-800-820-1139. 
CMI1-800-423-5264 -80 MB hard drive X 1665 But, being the great friend I am, I -5 1/4" & 3 1/2" Floppy Drives want to get them tickets. That way, 
PAPA JOHN'S is still hiring -Hayes Optima 24 Modem I can laugh in person. Quality Copies, Quickly Typing drivers and inside personnel -Citizen GSX-140 Color Printer 12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM """ 5 BC GA'S Needed """ THE COPY SHOP 287-4082 Flexible hours and 50% off -3 button mouse BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND Call 273-6548. LaFortune Student Center 
PAPA JOHN'S Pizza! Asking $1300 or best offer. STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME 631-COPY Resumes Lisa 273·6332 Call 271-1177 or stop by Call 634-4732,1eave message. -Bryan x 1190 Have pair of Boston College GA's. 54533 Terrace Lane * Leave Best offer at 273-4933. Word Processing, term papers, etc. EOE SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS
TICKETS

259-7402 Need FSU, BC Ga's or Stud Tix call Need 1 stu. BC ticket. Call LONDON AND ROME. TRAVEL 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII Sean @ 234-2793 Natalia X0695 TOW. EUROPE. COURSES IN Anyone need a ride to the DC area Individuals and Student MY FRIEND ... PHOTO, HIST, LIT,SOC, BIO. for Thanksgiving? I've got a spot. Organizations wanted to promote Please sell me your BC GA's... hey i need BC GAs and Stud. MEETING LIBRARY AUD. Call Staph at 273-6548. the Honest Spring Break x1653 bryan x1686 PERSONAL LOUNGE NOV. 17, 6:30PM. FOR­
Destinations, call the nation's MER PARTICIPANTS, PIZZA, leader. Inter-Campus Programs Need one BOSTON COLLEGE DIAMOND RING for sale TEACHERS. INFO CALL PROF.
ILOST & FOUND I 

1-800-327-6013 STUDENT TICKET. Call Kerri at call Katy 273-6219 BLACK 284-4460(W) 272-3726 (H) 
FOR SALE: FSU & BC TIXS. x2635 to hear my pathetic, helpless BIKE FOUND BY NO SECURITY going to DECORAH, lA, 235-3394 voice, and the whiny, squeaky way I 21-SPEED FUJI MONTERREY ROCHESTER. MN or anywhere answer the phone with. "HIIIIIII." PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW Thanks for helping us raise over RECOVERED ON NOV. 7 close the wkd. of dec. 4? need ride, $$Need BOSTON COLL GA's$$ $1300 for La Casa de Amistad. @4:30pm will pay. joe-x3533. Dan x1694 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
The Weasels are coming .... Special congratulations to Monise LOST: a brown leather bag on I need a ride to Minneapolis area DESPERATELY NEED Seward of B.P. for winning the FSU Firday 11/13 afternoon in Crowley (Prior Lake) for Turkey Day. Will GA's or STUD TIX tickets. Hall of Music. With wallet, 10 card, help with gas, tolls, etc. Very PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW credit card, checkbook and other Friendly. Call Kory x3040 NEEDED: BC TICKETSII PLEASE FSU Watch for other upcoming events Important items in II. If found, CALL WENDY X3427 & sponsored by the Sophomore 
please contact 634·1290 BC Sunday, November 21st: Class. 
SEAN AND LOST: Bright purple Columbia BRETIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII CALL SEAN @ 234-2793 The Day the music dies ... "Bugaboo" ski jacket with green lin· ing. If found, please call Joe I need up to 4 BC student tickets. Need 2 GA's for BC. Rick 273-5347 Hello Karin (again) @1613. Helpl Need ride to Billy Joel on Fri. Call Jason at 634-1130. 
Will pay. Please call Greg: 4-3404 NEED 2 BC STUD & 1 GA PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW LOST: B.C. Sen. Stud. For Sale-B/0. 273-CALL ZEKE OR RUDY x1686 Camera, 2 lenses and flash in DRIVING TO ATLANTA 5909-Pete. Come support your Weasels in the WANTED-rider to D.C. area for brown leather bag from home side­FOR THANKSGIVING BILLY JOEL TX 4 SALE I interhall championships T-break to help$ gas & tolls. Leave line after USC game LEAVE TUES-RETURN SUN """*****BC STUD. TICKET****••••• $50 or BO by noon NOV 19 at 11 am on Sunday in the Stadium. Wed. noon, rtn. Sun. Call Jenny at Call Mike x1187. NEED RIDERSIII CHG. $50 x2365 289-9633 
CALL 634-1823 FOR SALE-Best Offer. Senior PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW sec. ID incl. Jason 232-2263. 1 BC Stud. ticket for sale Tim 237-1012 NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB LOST Gold Heart locket outside FOR RENT ***"'****BC STUD. TICKET......... 
ALUMNI REUNION CONCERT JACC after USC rally 10/22. Sunday, November 21, 1993 EXTREME personal value. Clean, safe Apt. Near NO MBA Student needs 2 GAs for BC. Friday, November 19 If found PLEASE call X2485 755 South Bend Ave furnished Bob X4529. The day the numbers change at 8:30 PM in Stepan Center 
1 bedrm-240, efficiency-215, again. Tickets available NOW at 
607 E. Corby-2bdrm $330 I need BC GA's LaFortune Information Desk My backpack was stolen from North 519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat Ryan x3679 $$$$$$$$ PW#l General Admission $3 Dining hall last Friday night at din· drive by, call for appt. HAVE TWO BC GA'S Students $2 ner. If anyone found a blue/green deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 NEED B.C. GA's BEST OFFER @ 3419 Eddy Bower backpack in some ran­call Lisa at 634-4271 $$$$$$$ Turn out for the ghost dance with dom bush or In your room-mates KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK­stuff please call me. My life was in FAST located 23 miles south of NEED B.C. GA'S CALL BRIAN ELY PARKER & THE C.I.A.'s SEAN AND BRETI ARE SOOOOO the bag so I'd like It back. Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz Need 2 GA's and 1 stud tix for BC X3467 GOOD. THEY ARE MY FRIENDS. Tara 11634-4975 Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4 Call Steve 273-6436 Thurs. 11/18/93 9:00pm 
rooms, full breakfast -week-end 4 BC GAs 4 SALE. CALL x4876 The Huddle Amnesty Inti. 
getaway Need BC stud tix or GA's. Will pay wlbest offer SEAN AND BRETI ARE SOOOOO Lost-Silver Eddie Bauer Swiss 219-586-7090 $40 for GA's or $30 lor stud. x1562 DADDY-01 GOOD. THEY ARE MY FRIENDS. Army watch with leather band ***FOR SALE*** Lost on Saturday at game or BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­1 BC stud for sale. $30 Jim x1562 FOUR BCGA'S potato house. If found call ND/SMC EVENTS TOGETHER ON 25-YD LINE Hey Badin ... Andy at x1891 for reward (219) 291-7153 Need BC student tixl CALL BILL AT 291-6216· Amnesty Inti. Concert with: 
Call Sharon 282-2965 Purple Power is going to crush you 
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 ELY PARKER & THE C.I.A.'s in the Stadium on Sunday LOST ·MISSING NO CLASS RING Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­I need three BC student tix. Please WITH FULL NAME INSCRIPTED end 616-699-7137 BC STUD TIX For Sale 273-5817 call X4097. Tribal Garage Surf Explosion! Love, PW ON IT... PURDUE BO WEEKEND 9125 FROM SORIN 6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS Help! Need BC GAs or studs. Thurs. 11/18 9:00pm the Huddle HOVIS! HALL REWARD $1551F NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. NEED GA'S & STUDENTS FOR Call Dez: 4-3404 RETURNED OR KNOW OF 1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL BC. CALL LIZ 273-6588. DADDY-01 HI WOZ! YOUR'E THE GREAT­WHEREABOUTS NO QUESTIONS NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 EST! ASKED PLEASE CALL RYAN AT NEED 1 STUDENT BC TIC. CALL Desperately need one BC GA or It's a surf rock psycho-billy 634-2290 Lodging -Riverfront· Private. KATIE 3899. stud. Call 4-2119 pow-wow BASSIST NEEDED­
257-9101. with: CAMPUS BAND IS LOOKING FOR &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& A BASSIST 
WANTED 

ROOMMATE NEEDED I NEED 5 BC GA'S, WILL PAY ELY PARKER & THE C.I.A.'s if interested call Kevin @ x4781 Spr. Sem. CASH. CALLJEFFAT273-4119. I need 2 BC \ickets ... 
Wanted: 1(or 2) Stds. to share 6 Trtle Crk Tvnihs thurs. 11/18 9:00pm the Huddle bedrm house on NO Ave across 271-1399 Call Wade at 634-1743 Amnesty International Concert To The Mighty Ducks Of Howard from NO apts 2nd sem. 3 stds DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­Hall there already; rent & util 200/mth. Lodging -Riverfront -Private ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call: &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&"&"&" BUILT FOR SPEED, DADDY-0! 
288-5282 257-9101 A. Raczkowski DIG IT! Thanks for a great season. All (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums I NEED ......... . those days in practice paid off. The 
2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES with jobs -will pay big $$$1 1 BC Student opportunity to coach the mighty FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and NEAR ND 2 BC GA's I NEED a BC ticket, ducks for the past two seasons has find out how hundreds of students AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR FOR SALE: preferably a female student ticket. been a pleasure and a challenge. are already earning FREE TRIPS 232-2595 *STUDENT TICKET FOR BC * .................... please!! Please call Michelle at 4-2875. When the chips were down, you and LOTS OF CASH with CALL 703-538-6657 John x1179 showed great poise and determina­America's #1 Spring Break compa­HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­ASK FOR BRENDAN tion, and for this we are proud. ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, able for parents on weekends. 219-*SAME DAY SERVICE* WE NEED BC GAsl No more letters Good luck next year! Jamaica, Panama, Day1ona or 291-2899. Call X2732 or X37CO No more jokes Padre! CALL NOWI TAKE A Need 2 GAs for any home game No more Peaches David Reintjes, Brian BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL Call Tim at 273-1757 ""**""B.C. STUD FOR SALE""""*'"" Was it all just a hoax? Weilord, and Jim McMahon 
FOR SALE
(800)328-SAVE or (617)424·8222 b/o by Thurs. 18 284-5442 

Take a first Aid class with the American Red Cross. We'll teach you what you need to know to save someone you love. ..from choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergencies. Call your chapter of the American Red Cross today. And know it all. 
LL. 

Wednesday, November 17, 1993 The Observer· SPORTS 
McCue, equestrians ride on 
Special to the Observer 30. We do well for the number novice fences and Jen Toland of riders we have." placed first in the novice flat 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's McCue competes in the high­and a sixth place performance equestrian club is ranked third est intercollegiate division and in the novice fences. in the region behind Purdue is leading the Midwest point Stephanie Worwak and Chris after two strong shows last race for an invitation to nation­Singer placed fifth in the weekend. als in the spring. She placed walk/trot/canter and the 
The team placed third at first in the open fences division walk/trot respectively. Taylor on Saturday and then, at Purdue and second in open At the Taylor show, Becky for the first time in two years, flat in addition to being the Rombalski placed first in the won a show on Sunday. The reserve high point rider. At walk/trot/canter, Maria Chen team toppled Purdue in West Taylor, McCue placed second in placed first in the walk/trot and Lafayette with solid perfor­the open flat and fourth in the Kokoska placed fourth in the mances from Meaghan McCue, open fences. intermediate fences. Megan Turpin, Sue Mignanelli At Purdue, Chen and and Maria Chen. Mignanelli both finished first in The equestrian club has 
"We're really excited," said the walk/trot while Turpin fin­seven shows before nationals in McCue. "We are an underdog at ished third in intermediate flat. the spring and the team hopes these shows. We are competing Also, Leslie Kokoska placed to qualify. Currently, the Irish against teams with up to 200 sixth in intermediate fences, are third in the Midwestern riders and we only have about Sue Galanthay placed third in point race. 
LAFAYETTE SQYARE
T 0 w N H 0 E S 
"Luxury Living at Affordable Rates. " 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
FULLY EQUIPPED KITCHENS 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY's CAMPUSES 


"Where tenants are always treated as friends!" 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
COURSE CHANGES ARST ISOS 01 #0249 Change restriction to: ARHI, ARST or DESN majors or intended Freshmen majors only 
COURSES CANCELLED COURSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT Z:OO P.M. 
ARST 446S 01 #3999 11/lZ/23 
ARST 476S 01 #2101 COMM 103 05 9705 
soc 525 01 #1417 ENGL 489B 01 5153 
ENGL 495G 01 5158 
PHIL 261 01 1752 
CLOSED COURSES ENGL 301 01 0758 HIST 477A 01 5270
ACCT 479 01 1780 ENGL 310 02 5105 liPS 491A 01 4300 
AFAM 391 01 3975 ENGL 322A 01 5118 LAW 695 01 3128
AFAM 419C 01 4942 ENGL 325 01 5119 LAW 695 02 3790AFAM 454 01 4064 ENGL 392B 01 5125 LAW 695 03 3010
AMST 347H 01 4989 ENGL 415E 01 4580 LAW 695 04 0632AMST 348H 01 4990 ENGL 419B 01 5133 LAW 695 05 1211AMST 399E 01 4955 ENGL 435A 01 5139 LAW 695 06 2140AMST 418E 01 4959 ENGL 440E 01 5142 MARK 381 01 3366AMST 496E 01 4965 ENGL 458C 01 5144 MARK 381 02 5739ANTH 329 01 4610 ENGL 480 01 5151 MI 403 01 4701 ANTH 454 01 3988 ENGL 483 01 4094 MI 494 01 5320ARCH 598E 01 1134 ENGL 489 01 5152 MSA 574 01 5788ARHI 169 01 3773 ENGL 489B 01 5153 MUS 220 01 0763BA 464 01 3743 ENGL 495G 01 5158 MUS 222 01 3106BA 464 02 3842 ENGL 497B 01 5159 MUS 226 01 1109BA 490 02 0370 GE 410 01 4095 PHIL 261 01 1752BA 490 03 2571 GOVT 343T 04 1424 RLST 213 22 9522 CHEM 224L 07 4921 GOVT 343T 08 1547 ROSP 499 01 0974 CLAS 325 01 4043 GOVT 454 01 5204 soc 419 01 4362 COMM 103 05 9705 GSC 424 01 4799 soc 424 01 4798 COMM 103 07 9707 GSC 489 01 5186 THEO 252 01 0047 COMM 103 09 9709 HIST 372A 01 5257 THEO 265 01 3001 COMM 210 16 9716 THEO 287 01 2645
HIST 403A 01 4703
COMM 304 28 9728 THEO 290 01 2560
HIST 420A 01 5266
COTH 481 01 5058 454A 01 4066 THTR 230 9751
HIST 51 
ECON 487 01 0367 460A 3862 THTR 410 60 9760
HIST 01EDUC 324 27 8427 
-

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame equestrian club 
Meaghan McCue has led the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's equestrian club to a third place standing in the Midwest region. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

L 
N.D./ S.M.C. J.D. =F.D. 
(:'1/otre Dame or St. Mary's College Identification Equals a Free Dessert with dinner purchase.) OFFER EXCLllDES FOOTBALL A."'D PARENTS WEEKENDS 

CHRiSTMAS CRAfr BAZAAR 
Fri. Nov. 19th thru Sun. Nov. 21st • 
JYJI~NORT~~LAGE 
US 31N at Darden Rd. 272-8080 
SANTA ClAUS ARRIVES NOVEMBER 
27TH!! 

J 

-
Miami has something to prove in Big East showdown 
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES 
With one loss and few stars, Miami must battle a perception that they're not as good as coach Dennis Erickson's previ­ous teams. 
They'll get a chance to show they remain among the elite Saturday in a Big East 
Tide, Tigers match-up to fill two stadiums 
Asrociated Press 
TUSCALOOSA 
It's not often that one col­lege football game is a sellout in two stadiums the same day. 
But 45,000 Alabama fans are expected to convene in Bryant-Denny Stadium on Saturday to watch a closed­circuit telecast of the 11th­ranked Crimson Tide's game at No. 6 Auburn, officials said Tuesday. 
Games between the cross­state rivals are always a hot ticket, and all 85,000 tickets for Saturday's game at Auburn's Jordan-Hare Stadium quickly sold out. 
Regular telecasts of Auburn games are forbidden because the Tigers (10-0) are on pro­bation. But NCAA rules allow a closed-circuit telecast involving a school on proba­tion a.•; long as the telecast is confined to the opponent's campus, said David Berst, NCAA assistant executive director for enforcement in Overland Park, Kan. 
"Auburn can't generate any money from the matter," Berst said. "This is the only exception to telecast ban." 
Alabama officials arranged with a West Virginia compa­ny for a 20-by-30-foot screen to hang from a crane in the south end zone of the Tuscaloosa stadium so fans of the No. 11 Crimson Tide (8-1-1) can see the game. 
Alabama spokeswoman Brenda Burnette said Tuesday all 45,000 seats for the special telecast sold with­in four hours last week. 


SOUTH PADRE ISLAND NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
1----F•L•O•R•I•D•Il -----l 
DA YTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
1------C•O•L•O•R•Il•D•O ------1 
STEAMBOAT VAIUBEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
1-----N•E•V•A•D•.II.----1 
LAS VEGAS 
S•O•U•T•H C•A•R•O•L•I•N•Il 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1•BOD •SUNCHASE 

Conference showdown at State, the Hurricanes have unbeaten and ninth-ranked treaded water by playing four West Virginia. teams with a combined record 
"Miami has been light years of 12-27-1. ahead of everyone in our So how good are they? league," West Virginia coach "I think we're still kind of Don Nehlen said. "We're going wondering," defensive end to find out if the gap has been Kevin Patrick said Tuesday. closed any between the king of Poll voters have doubts, too. the league and the rest of us." They dropped Miami one spot 
Miami is 8-1 and ranked No. in the rankings despite 
4. But since losing at Florida Saturday's 31-17 victory over 

Love1 

Mom, Dad, & JloV\a 
Rutgers. 
"Everybody wants us to dis­mantle and destroy everyone," cornerback Paul White said. 
Instead, the Hurricanes scored 21 points against Virginia Tech and 23 against Boston College. 
They gave  up  28  points  to  
Florida  State  and  29  to  
Colorado.  

They have perhaps fewer stars than any Miami team in the 
past deeade. Erickson changed quarterbacks at mid-season. Ilis leading reeeiver has seored three touchdowns. Ilis leading rusher has gained 533 yards. It's possible that for the first time since 1983, the llurrieanes will produce not one All­American. 
"I like the fact we don't have too many big names" White said. 

Celebrate with the hippest fans around before another Irish victory over Boston College. We'll provide the grilled goods and warm cider, you just be yourself. Saturday, November 20, 10:00 a.m. 'til game time. Call John (232-6332) or Courtenay {634-2677) for details. Go Irish! 
What would you do if you had a brain? For starters you'd get yourself to our "We're not in Kansas anymore" party scheduled for Saturday, December 4, from 7:00p.m. 'til midnight. We'll watch The Wizard of Oz, snack on pizza and soda, and have another fabulous time with friends. Click those ruby slippers together and dream of life over the Rainbow-it's not as far away as you might think! Call Erik (634-3107) or Kelly (289-4063) for details. 


Gays and Lesbians is a group for support, education, and community-building for those concerned about and interested in gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues. Through regular meetings, projects, and social events we provide a safe and understanding atmosphere for the lesbian, bisexual, and gay community at St. Mary's and Notre Dame. If you would like to know more about us or extend your support, please write. 
P.O. Box 194 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
L____ 


-----~---------~------­
Wednesday, November 17, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 11 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-



BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
T~\'5 IS A. ~/lEAT C~Jt-lC£11/ P..EL'{, '(oV tv\IGI-\T BE IDEA. ! 'ao'/, W~E'i<£. WORKI~G ON '(OVR WO\lLD I BE AS'S\Gt-IME.t{T. 
W\T\-\0\.JT YO'J ? 
J 

\ 
·~. 
Fl.­
0 .,' 
-p 
DAVE KELLETI 

33 More 59 Mars fullower reasonable 
60 Savoie1 Concentrate 

34 Mrs., in Mexico summers 5 Eyed amorously 35 GET NICE 
61 Gusset10---free 39 Burrows of 62 Uncaps14 This, in Tijuana Broadway 63 Memorandum15 Boiling 

40 Hideous giants 16 Kind of bearer 
41 Unit of yarn 17 DAR. CHEST DOWN
42 Episcopate 20 They stand 43 Close by 1 Botch guard 
44 Overcharges 2 Tennis great 21 Ornamental tag 
46 Nancy or 3 Daze 22 "For--of a Helena 
4 Computer nail ..." 47 Passage for equipment23Mummer Pompey 5 Mechanic's job25 Arose 48 Sound of 6 Salute 28 Kind of table bugles 1 Former coins in29 Fitting 51 Monograph 

Riga32 Controversial 
55 STEM VENOM a Biblical verb apple spray 58--impasse 

ending 9 Aberdeen river 10 Milieu for Drew ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Poet Sandburg 
12 Ye --shoppe ~~-E'-i 13 Assay 

ff
1!111 A Public Service or 
~S Thla Pubtic•llon 
Earth Share...

19 Funt's fun maker 31 Cisterns 46Hag 52 Division word 
47--S.Cobb 53 Galley term 

23 Without 33 Tern 
54 To be: Lat. 
48 Vaunt

DINING HALL
with seven fashionable 49 Mother of predecessorwives" Apollo 
57 Giants' Ottis 25 Romans-fleuves " Anderson, for 
37 "--no kick 
50 Miles away 51 Sped short26 Newcomer to 38 Triskaidekapho-West Point 

bic item 27 Hindu queen 
44 Wall Street 
Answers to any three clues in this

28 Less risky category 
puzzle are available by touch-tone 

29 Mongolian, e.g. 
45 Harnessed phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 30 Trident part Clydesdales minute). 
We need your help. How has alcohol-or 
NATIONAL DRUNK AND DRUGGED other drug-impaired driving affected your life? 
DRIVING (3D) PREVENTION MoNTH 
Please share your experiences, both positive 
and negative, with your fellow students by 
DECEMBER 1993 
contacting the Office of Alcohol and Drug 
Education at 631-7970. We are specifically 
looking for written stories to share with your 
peers. 





Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk 

-SPORTS 
page 12 Wednesday, November 17, 1993 
Holtz, Clinton talk more than football 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
A call from President Clinton and a large dose of a reality hit Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz in the days following the Florida State victory. 
The President called to con­gratulate Holtz on Monday. He had seen the Irish's 31-24 won over the Seminoles on Air Force One on his way to Memphis for a speech. 

The two talked for about ·"" twenty minutes on a wide range of topics. 
"We talked about NAFTA. we talked about the game. the future, and some of the prob­lems in the country and some of things we need to get done," said Holtz. "One thing he did mention was the discipline and the intensity of the players, and he wondered if people have guidance and direction and counseling and if we could get more of the youth in this coun­try involved in that situation what a better place the U.S. would be. 
"I don't offer advice to the president of the country, but I do have some suggestions. We are going to get together arter the first of the year and talk about some different things. How some people could possi­bly help to change the direction of certain people" 

Despite his relations with Clinton, Holtz laughed at ques­tions about a possible career in politics. 
"''m not Washington Beltway. I'm a small city guy." 
Holtz ducked questions about a possible rematch with Florida State but jokingly answered a question about the possibility of a playoff system in college foot­ball. 
"I think we ought to play eleven games and forget the bowls," Holtz said with a smile. 
lie also sympathized with teams like Nebraska and West Virginia, who could go unde­feated but not have a chance to finish No. 1. 
"I've been in the in the situa­tion where we deserved to win the national championship. So I can understand how people feel if they go undefeated and not have a chance for a national championship, but I am not the guy who makes those decisions. I can't control where we play or who we play." 
The Irish should be near full­strength going into Saturday's game except for Shawn Wooden who is out of the game with a knee injury and center Tim Ruddy who is battling a hip flexor. 
"Ruddy has been handi­capped by this for the last sev­eral weeks but has been able to play through it." said Holtz. "I did not see him injure it on Sunday, but he came in today and had tremendous pain there." 
The ailment could end his streak of 27 consecutive starts. He missed practice on Tuesday and is listed as questionable for Saturday. 
Lance Johnson would replace Ruddy on the Irish line. Holtz indicated he would get more work there in the next few days. 
Wooden's knee may require surgery, but they are waiting to see how it develops in the next few days. He injured the knee in the post game celebrations last Saturday. 


Tarheels begin defense oftitle in NIT 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
Sick of the Bowl Coalition? Tired of NFL regular-season games? Do you realize the NBA and NHL playoffs are months away? 

Take heart. there is something North Carolina as the Tar Heels else on the sports menu: college open defense of their national basketball. championship. 
The season gets under way "Each year I think it's the Wednesday night with four same expectations," North opening-round games of the Carolina coach Dean Smith said Preseason NIT including of the top preseason ranking. Western Kentucky at No. 1 
This eighth Preseason NIT has a field which meets the stan­dards of the previous· seven. Besides North Carolina. there are three other teams ranked in the Top Ten -California, Kansas and Minnesota -and two others in the poll -No. 19 Cincinnati and No. 22 Massachusetts. 
In addition to Western Kentucky-North Carolina on Wednesday night, Butler is at Cincinnati; Western Michigan is at No. 9 Kansas; and Santa Clara is at No. 6 California. 
The first round concludes 
Thursday night with Cleveland 
State at Massachusetts; Towson 

... State at St. John's; Rice at No. 10 Minnesota; and Alabama State at Georgia. 
The second round is Friday and Saturday with the semifi­nals next Wednesday night at New York's Madison Square Garden with the championship game two days later. 
Reaching the semifinals is usually a good indicator for the upcoming season as six teams which have gotten that far in
AP File Photo 
the Preseason NIT have gone

North Carolina coach Dean Smith should have little to complain about 
on the NCAA's Final Four the

this season, as his Tarheels are ranked no. 1 in the preseason. 

Inside SPORTS 

College Football 

Club Sports 

The no. 3 Miami 
The Notre Dame/Saint 
Hurricanes face West 
Mary's equestrian club 
Viriginia in a Big East 
ranks third in the 

match-up with big 
Midwest region 

implications 
see page 9 
see page 10 

same season. 
North Carolina lost one starter from the team that won it all in New Orleans in April. but George Lynch's rebounding and floor leadership will be tough to replace. Still, Dean Smith has quite a cast to choose from ­preseason All-American center Eric Montross, outstanding point guard Derrick Phillips, 3­point specialist Dona:Jd Williams, the MVP of the Final Four -as well as one of the country's best freshman classes led by swingman Jerry Stackhouse. 
The Tar Heels certainly don't get much time to rest on their laurels as Western Kentucky won the Sun Belt Conference and two NCAA games last sea­son. 
California knows it can't take Santa Clara lightly. The Broncos were the 15th seed in the West Regional last year when they knocked off No. 2 Arizona in the first round. 
Cal has a preseason All­American of its own in sopho­more point guard Jason Kidd and the Bears will play this whole season under coach Todd Bozeman who took over mid­way through last year. They knocked off two-time defending national champion Duke in the third round before losing to Kansas in the regional semifi­nals. 
Irish lose Kurowski Observer Staff Report  
The bad breaks continue for sophomore guard Keith Kog;:v~~" ~·\· ~:.p~~~ri~~ed :; , ;;,j ­tears. ·~ Kurowski ~:,, ~ tore _Jig~-..tf li''~: ~f> ments m h1s Keith · k n e e KurowskiSaturday at practice, ruther abbreviating a career that has already had its share of disappointments. The 6-foot-2 Matawan. N.J. native sat out his entire freshman season after suffer­ing a stress fracture in his foot in the preseason. ~He was coming down the court pretty fast on a fast break and he tried to stop on a dime," sophomore Ryan Hoover said. "IIis knee just buckled under him." He underwent successful surgery on his knee Tuesday and spent the night in the in· firmary. At least Kurowski has kept a sense of humor about his bad fortune. "Keith said, 'I guess I'm just too fast for my body parts,"' Hoover related. "I guess he's right."  



College Football With Auburn prohibited from appearing on TV, Alabama fans must watch a closed circuit telecast 
see page 10 



