----~--~--­



ND class size meets Colloquy target 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
This year's incoming freshman class will put the University right on target with the goal set in the Colloquy for the Year 2000, according to Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney. 
Rooney estimates that 1, 900 students will join the class of 1997-a slight increase from last year's 1,882 incoming freshman and from 1,870 the year before. This class size will bring the total under­graduate population in line with the goal set in the University's 10-year plan of 7,625 students, said Rooney. 
This also marks the second year that the University has implemented a gender-blind admis­sions _process that Rooney said gives women "fully equal consideration in application process." The result is a 55 to 45 male to female ratio, a one-per­cent increase in the number of incoming freshman women. 
From an academic perspective, Rooney said this year's class is the "third-or fourth-strongest" class in the history of Notre Dame Admissions. 
Of 7,700 applicants, 3,700 highly qualified stu­dents were invited to the University, said Rooney. The mean high school class rank of class shows students in the top seven percent of their high 
-school class. with an average Scholastic Aptitude Test score of 1,217. Minorities make up 14 percent of the class, said Rooney, a figure which falls short the University's goal by just one percent. In recent years. the Hispanic population has been the largest among incoming freshmen. According to Rooney, the class of 1997 is comprised of: 
• 
six percent Hispanic; 

• 
four percent African American; 

• 
three percent Asian; and • one percent American Indian. This year there was a more "positive response" 


from African American prospective students. said 
see ADMISSIONS I page 4 
Orientation 1993 
Schct!ule ofEvellfj 
Notre Dame Saturday 1 p.m. Official Welcome and Introductory Ceremony, JACC 2 p.rn. Academic Perspective from the Provost, JACC. 3 p.m. Parent Orientation and General Session for all first-year students with their academic advisors, JACC. 4-6 p.m. Debartolo Classroom Building Information Fair on University Programs and services, DeBartolo Hall. 7 p.m. Movie: "Knute Rockne: All American" for parents followed by reception and questions, 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Sunday 8:30-9:30 a.m. Parents Breakfast, Concourse of JACC. 10 a.m. Eucharistic Liturgy, JACC. 
11:30 a.m. Picnic lunch, JACC. 
12:15 p.m. Introduction to Student Activities, JACC. 
1:30 
p.m. Reception for minority students and their parents, Monogram Room of JACC. 

1:30 
p.m., 2:30 p.m. Campus tours. Tours depart from steps of the Main Building. 2 p.m., 2:45 p.m., 3:30 p.m., Student-conducted programs on the Code of Honor, Washington Hall. 9 p.m. Flashback Fling, arena of the JACC. 


Saint Mary's 1-2:00 p.m. Social life at a women's college, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 2-3:00 p.m. College Open House, Angela Athletic Facility. 
8:30 p.m. Ice Cream Social. 9:30p.m Movie: "Aladdin," Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. 
Sunday 
9:30a.m. Orientation Liturgy, Angela Athletic Facility. 
3:30 p.m. Knowing One Another: The College Experience, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 4:45-6:00 p.m. Dinner, Dining Hall. 6 p.m. Orientation Student Advisor Group Meetings. 9 p.m. Flashback Fling, arena of the JACC. 9:30p.m.Transfer Student Party, Clubhuse. 

SMC class committed 
•
to servtce 
By BETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Admission office at Saint Mary's holds high expectations for the College's 398 incoming freshmen. 
"I feel great about the incom­ing class at Saint Mary's," said Director of Admissions Mary Pat Nolan. "This group is ser­vice oriented with a strong sense of commitment to mak­ing the world a better place." 
The academic standards for admission continued to rise this year. The average GPA for the class of 1997 is a 3.49 up from a 3.4 last year. The number of valadictorians increased from 8 to 10 this year and the majority of the incoming freshmen were in at least the top 20% of their high school classes. 
There were also significant increases in the number of stu­dents that belonged to the National Honor Society, re­ceived the National Merit Scholar semi-finalist award and Outstanding African American honor entering the College this fall. 
Students have traveled from 32 different states, two American territories, and four foreign countries in order to attend Saint Mary's this year. The regional break down of the 
see SMC I page 4 
Transfers, re-admits total242 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
Notre Dame admitted 150 transfer students and re-admit­ted 40 students this year, while Saint Mary's admitted 52 trans­fer students, according to Kevin Rooney, director of Notre Dame admissions and Mary Pat Nolan, director of Saint Mary's admissions. 
With 450 applicants for trans­fer into Notre Dame, it was a "typical year" for transfer admissions, said Rooney. Last year the University also saw 450 applicants although it ad­mitted only 160. 
At Notre Dame, eligible trans­fer applicants are sophomores or juniors who have at least a 
3.0 grade point average. Prospective students do not apply to the University in gen­eral. but rather to the particu­lar college in which they are interested. 
This year marks the first time in recent years that the College of Arts and Letters admitted the largest number of transfer stu­dents, narrowly surpassing the College of Business, which has been number one in admissions the past two years. 
Rooney attributes this in­
crease in Arts and Letters ad­
missions to the fact that the 
College has recently made ad­
justments within their adminis­
tration that has allowed the 
College to admit sophomores 
for the first time in recent his­. tory. 
Although final numbers are 
not yet available, Rooney said 
that two-thirds of all Notre 
Dame transfer students have 
been admitted to either the 
College of Arts and Letters or 
the College of Business. The 
rest of the students are evenly 
divided among the College of 
Architecture, College of 
Engineering, and College of 
Science. 
According to Rooney, the 
male/female ratio for transfer 
students is similar to that of the 
freshman class, or 55/45. The 
final numbers for geographic 
distribution is not yet available. 
The 40 students re-admitted to the University is a 20 student decrease from last year. Students seek re-admitance for a number of reasons including those of health, finances, or academics, Rooney said. Whether or not a student is re­admitted varies from situation to situation, he said. 
At Saint Mary's, the number of transfer students is up to 52 from 36, according to Nolan. The business department was the the most popular choice for transfers this year, but was fol­lowed closely by the elementary education department, Nolan added . 
Transfer students this year have been admitted from 12 states and follow the same geo­graphical distribution as the in­coming freshman class. 
According to Nolan, the geo­graphic distribution for transfer students is as follows: 
•75 
percent from the Midwest; 

•seven 
percent from the South; 

•10 
percent from the Northeast; 

•four 
percent from the West; and 

•three 
percent from the Southwest. 


The majority, 52 percent, of this year's students have come to Saint Mary's from two-year colleges, said Nolan, and 27 percent have ties to Saint Mary's alumni. 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Beth Regan contributed to this report. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Day, Month, Year 
INSIDE COLUMN CAMPUS AT AGLANCE 
) 
Take it easy; after all, it's only college 
You've arrived. Finally. Your parents will soon leave, and you'll be on your own the face the real world for the first time. 
Ah, Notre Dame. The big time. 
Hold that thought. Re­

read the mountain of mail you received between April David Kinney 
and August. You may have Ediror-in-Chief 
thought you were leaving-------­
the confines of your family, but, for a small fee, you've gained admission into a new family: the famed Notre Dame Family. 
With it comes certain privileges: three square­meals a day, cheaper prices for "The Shirt '93," and guaranteed seats for one of the greatest spectacles on earth, Notre Dame Football, spon­sored by NBC. (What else would you expect ~rom a place where you can feel almost as holy man empty, tradition-laden stadium as you can in the gilded aura of Sacred Heart?) 
There are also rules, from parietals to smok­ing to alcohol to the window screen policy. 
But in case you're still skeptical about this Notre Dame Family thing, Dean Eileen Kolman of .Freshman Year of Studies brings you her "Tips for College Success." With some amend­ing, they follow: 
• Manage your time. The University rec­ommends you spend up to 40 hours each week on your studies. Bosh. Learn the benefits o group study and don't forget the value of Cliff's Notes. They're not just for high school anymore. 
• Make some academic friends. My point exactly. 
• Take care of your body. Sleep is an un­derrated commodity, but at least you can look forward to balanced meals until you realize that the meatless baked ziti and the mockery of a Philly Cheese Steak really isn't worth the toO­yard walk from your dorm room to the dining hall. 
(If you really want to take care of your body, you'll soon discover the virtues of Rocco's, 537 
N. St. Louis Blvd., Bruno's, 2610 Prairie Ave., and Macri's, 6502 Grape Rd.) 
• 
Attend classes and participate. Behind this is an important lesson to learn early. The 30 minutes you gain by not showering and not eat­ing breakfast can be more valuable than you think. Add baseball caps and sweatpants to your wardrobe and keep plenty of deodorant and a six-pack of Mountain Dew handy. 

• Get ahead and stay apace. Right. Gotcha. 

• 
Leave the kitchen sink at home. Amen. Besides, you can't really fit it in that closet with your bed, wardrobe and desk. 


A few more cents of sensible advice: Forget the graffiti dance, three-legged softball and much of the rest of freshman orientation. It's a little like trial by fire, and if you can handle that, you're on the up and up. 
But the most important thing to keep in mind is this: Take advantage of the opportunities you find here, revel in the friendships you make and don't take anything too seriously. 
After all, it's only college. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The ObseriJer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News  Lab Tech  
Meredirh McCullough  T.J. Harris  
Sarah Doran  Production  
John Lucas  Cheryl Moser  
Sports  Susan Marx  
George Dohrmann  Accent  
Brian Kubiki  Kenya Johnson  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Rolando de Aguiar  Brendan Regan  

Th< Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday <xc<pt during <Xam and vacation periods. Th< 0b5<'rver is a membc:r of th< Associat<d Pn:ss. All r<production rights are r<scrv<d. 

GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF 1993 FRESHMAN ND SMC MIDWEST 40% 75% NORTHEAST 27% 10% WEST 
According to Notre Dame Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney, the University attracts a geographically diverse range of students. The following break-down is based on estimates for the incoming freshman class. Final figures are not yet available, said Rooney. 


Alumni receive CASE gold medal 
NOTRE DAME, lnd.-For the second year in a row, Notre Dame's Alumni Association has received the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) Grand Gold Medal in the overall alumni program category. The association has won six CASE awards in as many years. It also received the Grand Gold Medal the highest of the CASE. awards, in 1988 and 1990, 'and bronze medals in 1989 and 1991. The award will be pre­sented July 11, during CASE's annual meeting in Washington, D.C. "To receive the grand gold for a second consecutive year serves as an affirmtttion tnat we are providing our alumni a valuable service," said Charles Lennon, executive director of the alumni association. 
Lennon named Port Lodge rector 
NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Sean Lennon, a South Bend native and Notre Dame alumnus has been named rector of the Port Lodge, a student residence at the University of Notre Dame-Australia in Fremantle. Lennon is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Lennon, Jr., also of South Bend. Charles "Chuck" Lennon is assistant vice president of University relations at Notre Dame and executive director of the Alumni Association. Sean Lennon graduated from Notre Dame in 1987 with a bachelor's degree in govern­ment and international studies. He currently is com­pleting his MSA degree at Notre Dame-Australia, after which he will enter a Ph.D. program there. As rector of the Port Lodge, he will oversee student life in the resi­dence and manage the physical facilities. His initial peri­od of appointment extends to December 31, 1994. 
Williams elected to USSALEP 
NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate provost at the Notre Dame, has been elected to the board of directors of the United States-South Africa Leadership Development Program (USSALEP). A 35-year-old multiracial association of Americans and South Africans,USSALEP sponsors training programs for black South Africans in such fields as journalism, Jaw, busi­ness, health, art, the social sciences and the academy. At present, it administers an $8 million grant for the U.S. Agency for International Development to support former­ly banned or disenfranchised South African political organizations. 

Alumni association receives grant 
NOTRE DAME, Ind.-The Notre Dame Alumni Association received a grant of $21,500 from Ronald McDonald Children's Charities to fund a live, interactive, nationwide telecast on the family. "We're grateful to Ronald McDonald Children's Charities both for this help­ful grant and for the commitment to American families which it shares with us," said University President Father Edward Malloy. The telecast, entitled "Home Improvement: Building Family Esteem," will be aired Nov. 7 from the studios of WNDU-TV at Notre Dame. One of an ongoing series on family issues coordinated by Kathleen Sullivan, director of alumni continuing educa­tion, it will be the eighth such telecast produced by the association since October 1988. Last November the association aired a 90-minute telecast entitled "A Positive Approach to Parenting Our Teenagers." The pro­gram, transmitted via satellite to 55 participating alumni clubs, was carried on 1,200 cable systems to a nation­wide audience. It received a 1993 Gold Medal in the spe­cial events category from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. 
Program to assist athletes in academics 
NOTRE DAME, Ind.-A University of Notre Dame Alumnus has provided a $50,000 gift to establish the first endowed position in the University's Office of Academic Services for Student Athletes. The James J. Mains Jr. Tutorial program has been anonymously funded in honor of James Mains, the benefactor's former teacher and coach at Saint Joseph Central Catholic High School in Ironton, Ohio. The Office provides some 600 varsity ath­letes with counseling, guidance and tutoring-assistance that has contributed to a graduation rate that consistent­ly ranks at or near the top of all universities engaged in major college athletic competition. 
Saturday, Aug. 28 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
NATIONAL Weather
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Saturday, Aug. 28. 
cow WARM STATIONARY C 1993Accu-Weather,lnc. 

Pressure H L  a  &.::;:~  [Til  0  IZ] g]ll 1:)  ~ L...! c:::].  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  HlTORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
~AuxalllldP,...  

H L Mklngton Hts 92 76 Athens 79 52
~,n£Il~~..t;(A~ (f ~ ~ 
............~...~ ......:. w. -:...-:..--:.. ~ ~ 
Boca Raton 95 84 
Showers T·stotms Rain Aurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud)' 
Boston 89 78 1/lo Asoocaled Pf888 GraphlcsNot 01993 Accu·Woalher, Inc. 
Atlante 93 73

Chicago  90  35  London  59  46  
Cleveland  90  86  Los Angeles  95  75  
Cincinnati  90  83  New York  90  85  
Detroit  90  78  Paris  90  78  
I Houston  80  85  Philadelphia  87  65  
Indianapolis  90  80  Seattle  70  65  
Jerusalem  90  80  Washington, D.C.  51  39  


Saturday, August 28, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Student government ND Security seeks fresh involvement tnvesttgattng 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
Bridging the communications gap between students and stu­dent leaders is the main goal of the Notre Dame student gov­ernment as the 1993-94 acade­mic year gets unde-rway this week. 
"Quite simply, our goal is to get as many students involved as possible and we want to let them know that we will always have a place for them to speak," said Frank Flynn, stu­dent body president. "We'll involve anybody if they want to help." 
The steps toward attaining this goal begin with an open invitation for all students to participate in the student sen­ate and to promote resolutions and proposals in the forum, he said. The letter will be printed in an upcoming addition of The Observer. 
Freshman specifically are urged to get involved in student government through particpia­tion in the freshmen class council, which will run elec­tions in late Septmber. 
Also planned next week is the Used Book fair to be held at Stepan Center during the first three school days, which Flynn expects to be a success. 
Student government is also distributing a complementary discount card at enrollment for the first time. The card offers discounts to a variety of area businesses including Dominoes pizza, Papa John's pizza and World's Greatest Laundromat, according to Flynn. 
The Observer/T.J. Harris 
Orientation conversation 
Robert Johnigan, a sophomore from Alumni Hall and Amberly Hershberger, a freshman from Holy Cross Hall (left to right}, enjoy conversation and music at the "Taste of Saint Mary's" yesterday evening in Haggar College Center. 
rape at D-2 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
A 15 year old South Bend girl has reported being picked up at the corner of Michigan and Sample streets in downtown South Bend sometime after 5 a..m. on Thursday August 26th, driven to the D-2 parking lot on the northeast corner of the Notre Dame campus, and raped, according Charles H_urley, assistant director of Notre Dame security. 
The girl described her assailant as a white male in his late 20s to early 30s with short brown hair. blue eyes and a mustache. He was wearing black jeans and driving a small, white, 4-door sedan. The car was equipped with a CB radio and the girl believed it had Michigan license plates beginning with the letters "UB." The assailant displayed a knife to the girl. 
The girl reported the rape to security at the East Gate of campus at 6:30 a.m. Thursday. 
Neither the girl nor her assailant has any connection with the University. according to Hurley. 
There has been an investiga­
tor assigned to the case, 
according to Hurley, but no 
more information is available, 
he said. 
® 
Voted Best Pizza Delivered to Campus 
~1993 Observer and Independent Class Study ~-H-ou_R_s__ Free Delivery 
M..Th .. ll:OOa.m ... 1:00a.m. 271~1177 
Fri..Sat .. 11:00 a.m ... 3:00a.m. ~ Sun..Noon .. 1:00 a.m. TheM D ,-h.,lrfiii"N mber C f 
· ost rOfliMU' u on ~~· r -------,r-------,~-------~r-------,r ----~-,
Late Night Special Lunch Spectal
I 4--14" Large II 1--14" Large II 9 p.m._ close II 2--14" Large II u a.~;-4 p.m. I I 1 ~ · II 1 Topping II 1--14"L II . . 11 1.. 10 Small I
1 ?PPlng II . II . ar~e II 1 Topptng Ptzzas II 2 Topping Pizza and 1 I Ptzzas II Ptzza II 1 Topptng Ptzza II $1195 2 cans of Coca..Cola. 
$695 $595
I $2295 II II II 11II $595 1 I
+Tax +Tax +Tax +Tax +Tax 
1Addotl!ma1Toppings.95¢each ~-~~Addt<lona!Toppmgs 95¢each ...... ~~~dt<lona!Toppmgs.95¢each ~-~~Addl[tona!Top~mgs95¢each .....11Addt<lona1Toppmgs95(each ~-~ 
._ _______ _.._ _______ ... _______.... ._... _______ ...... _______
INor Vahd Woth Any Orher Coupon I ill-Jot Vahd Woth Any Other Coupon I 01 Vahd Woth Any Other Coupon I ~-lot Vahd w,.h Any Other Coupon I ~-lot Valtd Wtth Any Other Coupon .J 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Saturday, August 28, 1993 

Admissions 
continued from page 1 
Rooney. This resulted in the University enjoying a rise for the first time in the number of African American students join­ing the freshman class, he added. 
Geographically, the Univer­sity traditionally attracts broad­er distribution of students than most other schools, explained Rooney. This year was no dif­ferent. Although the final num­bers cannot yet be determined, Rooney estimated that: 
• 40 percent come from the Midwest; 
• 27 percent from the North­east; 
• 11 percent from the West; 
• 
ten percent from the Southwest; 

• 
nine percent from the South; and 

• 
three percent from U.S. ter­ritories and other countries. 


An estimated 22 to 23 per­cent of this year's incoming freshmen are children of alum­ni. 
Rooney said that in recent years the University has set a goal to enroll approximately a quarter of the class. But the number of students actually admitted depends upon the strength and the size of the group of applicants, he said. 
MAKE YouR DoRM RooM oR APARTMENT LOOK LIKE HOME 
Large selection of gently used furniture & carpet remnants at our 
Expanded Used Furniture Dept. 
1805 Western Ave. 

The Observer/T.J. Harris 
Food, folks and fun 
Freshman sample food and drinks from the Olive Garden, just one of the many restaurants represented at yesterday's "Taste of Saint Mary's." This was just one of many events planned this weekend for freshman orientation. 

Convenient Shopping Hours:
French honor Lefor scholarship 
Special to The Observer 
Chau T.M. Le, associate dean of the University of Notre Dame's graduate school, has been named an "officier" in l'Ordre des Palmes Academiques. 
Le received the honor June 24 in a ceremony at the ollices of the French consulate in Chicago. The decoration dates from Napoleon's reign and is accompanied by a medal. It is conferred by the French Minister of National Education on professors, writers, scholars and scientists who have distin­guished themselves in the field of education and in the advancement of studies in the literary and artistic fields. 
A native of Hue, Vietnam, Le has been a member of th~ Notre Dame faculty since 1975. A 1957 graduate of Cambridge 
SMC 
continued from page l 
incoming students is similar to that of the College's upper­classmen. Seventy-five percent of the freshmen come from the midwest, 10 percent from the northeast, 7 percent from the south, 4 percent from the west, 3 percent from the southwest and 1 percent international students. 
While the Business Administration department remained first on the list for intended majors this year, many more incoming students listed elementary education and nursing as their intended major. 
"I believe that this class will be a wonderful match for Saint Mary's," Nolan said, "not only because they are very intelli­gent but they are also involved and have a variety of inter­ests." 
Monday-Thursday 9 a.m.-7p.m. received a master's degree in chaired the English department 
University, from which he also University of Saigon, where he 
Friday 9 a.m.-8 p.m. English literature in 1961, he for two years, he was technical 
Saturday 9 a.m. -6 p.m.
obtained a doctoral degree in assistant to the minister of edu­Sunday noon-5 p.m. 
English language and literature cation of Vietnam from 1967­from the University of Chicago 69. Before coming to Notre in 1967. A lecturer in English at Dame he served as rector of the 
Checks & Cash, too! 
FURNITURE RE-STOCKED DAILY 
• 

® 
the University ~f Hue and the University of Hue for six years. 
~~LAWN HILL'S ~ 
~J\" CHIEF ~ 
~o~~-7Aai)f~®HARDWARE~i~
~ ~~ 
f<,v0 ~~ EmBII 52295 U.S. 33 SOUTH BEND, IN. JA\;!.Iij/!:1 ~_,~c:,~~Q HOURS: WEEKDAYS 7-8 SATURDAY 8-5 SUNDAY 9-5 
PHONE: 277-1155 •u••sav"c"""'.'"" ::;::ljl 
&.,-----~-~--..·-----.. ·------------------------------:::---------.!
University of Notre Dame 
International Study Programs 
Invites you to attend a general information session When: Saturday, August 28, 1993 Where: DeBartolo Classroom Building, Room 101 Time: 4:00 pm Immediately following the general information session, individual sessions for each program will be held in the following rooms: 
PROGRAM 
Angers, France Dublin, Ireland Fremantle, Australia 
Insbruck, Austria Jerusalem 
Maynooth, Ireland (Saint Mary's College) Mexico City, Mexico Nagoya, Japan 
COORDINATOR  ROOM  
Prof. Paul McDowell  131  
Dr. Isabel Charles ·  138  
Dr. Sonia Gerr.:s  155  
Dr. Howard Lanser  
Dr. Klaus Lanzinger  129  
Mr. Edward Hahnenberg '94  119  
Alumnus of Program  
Ms. Shari Overdorf  140  
Prof. Angela Borelli  125  
Fr. Geor~e Minamiki, SJ.  118  
Prof. Yu o Nakahama  

Rome, Italy (Saint Mary's College)  Dr. Peter Checca  136  
Santiago, Chile  Fr. Timothy Scully, C.S.C.  117  
Toledo, Spain  Prof. CarlosJerez-Farran  126  
Former student participants will also be on hand to discuss their  
experiences, offer comments and answer questions.  


Saturday, August 28, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Drainage, business complex among ND summer work 


By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Work crews flooded the Notre Dame campus this summer working on a variety of con­struction and renovation pro­jects, ranging from the im­provement of the campus drainage system to the con­struction of a new complex to house the College of Business Administration,. 
Located immediately south of DeBartolo Hall, the new Business complex is expected to nearly double the 69,000 feet of space offered by Hurley Hall and Hayes-Healy Center, the facilities that currently house the college. 
"In the past we have been very, very tight on space," ac­cording to Robert Williamson, Associate Professor of the College. "Faculty members have had offices in rooms in the basement that were designated for vending machines." 
According to Williamson, the 
foundation and basements of 
the complex have been dug, 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 

~~==~i~?J 
AUTHORIZED DEALER SALES • PARTS • ACCESSORIES • CLOTHING 
•SERVICE • ASSEMBLY • FREE CHECK UP • • TRADE-INS ACCEPTED • • EXERCISERS • BMX HEADQUARTERS • CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY 
ROSELAND MISHAWAKA 
277-8866 259-4862 
135 us 31 3835LWE 
ACROSS FROM RANDALL'S INN 
at Martin's Plaza SR 23 & Ironwood 
Welcome Back Special 
any foot long cold sub 
$399 
with purchase of a 22 oz. medium drink 
c (must present coupon for this special) 
~ ~ 
.I 'Pol') expires 9-15-93 v.'Q0 
0 
L----------------------£--~ 
Attention Students! 

you need! 
•No-Fee 
Checkina-and Savina-s Accounts •Loans 

•Computer 
Bankina-with Nml E:?gJress

•ATMs 
.. . 

•Extended 
Bankina-·Hours 


Visit NBD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 
NBDBank , 
18083 SR 23 North @Member FDIC 273-1280 ..."""~ 
and the project is on schedule for opening in the summer of 1995. Mter the complex is fin­ished, the College of Business Administration will move out of Hurley and Hayes-Healy, and both buildings will be open for new University uses. 
Constructild in the shape of an 'H,' the new complex will of­fer 18 classrooms, 13 small­group study rooms, a 350-seat auditorium, and a revolutionary audio-visual classroom, which is "on the cutting edge" accord­ing to Williamson. The class­room will serve the dual pur­poses of allowing students to "attend" classes at other uni­versities through satellite links, in addition to serving as a room where professors can improve their classroom delivery. 
"This is something we have all looked forward to for many 
years,"  according  to  John  
Keane,  Gillen  Dean  of the  
College.  "It will make so many  

things possible that we've sim­ply been unable to do because of space and facility limita­tions." 
Among the other campus previously clogged with dirt projects completed over the and debris were cleaned. The summer was the improvement $25,000 project should ensure of the campus drainage system. that walkways and paths Over 120 dry wells that were remain free of standing water. 

IUS B! 
GRE Review  GMAT Review  LSATReview  
Thursdays  Mondays  Tues. & Thurs.  
6-10 p.m.  6-10 p.m.  6-10 p.m.  
begins Sept. 2  begins Sept. 13  begins Sept. 2  

Intensive strategy reviews at less than halfthe cost ofotherPrograms. 
IDSB Continuing Education 
1700 Mishawaka Ave. 
Call2374261 
COLLEGE 
STUDENTS! PAGERS $7.00 
per month* (Purchase at $89) 
WHILE THEY LAST! 
PageAmerica 
254-­9924 
*based on school year. 
"Lake Stanford is no more," according to Chuck Thomas, the director of the Facilities Operations Maintenance Center. 
Another major project on campus was the renovation of the Nieuwland Science Hall's undergraduate chemistry labs, according to Michael Smith, Director of Facilities Engineering. In addition to modernizing the facilities and replacing obsolete equipment, the number of ventilators in the labs were significantly in­creased to enhance safety. 
Other renovation and con­struction include the following: 
•Crews 
remodeled Grace Hall as part of the yearly schedule of dorm renovations. In addition to remodeling student rooms and bathrooms, the air condi­tioning and heating systems were upgraded. 

•As 
part of a multi-year pro­ject, new sidewalks were in­stalled behind Breen-Phillips Hall, and the North Dining Hall. In addition, several sidewalk improvements were made on South Quad. New sidewalks were installed in front of Morrisey Hall and in the middle of South Quad in front of Dillon Hall. Future sidewalk im­provements include further ex­pansion on Juniper Road and along Douglas Road near St. Joseph's Lake, Smith said. 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Saturday, August 28, 1993 
Notre Dame announces 11 faculty, staffpromotions 
Special to The Observer 
Eleven members of the uni­versity of Notre Dame faculty have been advanced to emeri­tus rank, and promotions have been announced for 38 others. 
The new faculty emeriti are Thomas Bergin, professor of management; Joseph Brennan, professor of English; James Houghton, assistant professor emeritus of aerospace and me­chanical engineering; Lawrence Lee, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; Rev. Richard McCormick, S.J ., O'Brien professor of Christian ethics (theology department); Rev. Matthew Miceli, associate professor of theology; Father Edward O'Connor,associate professor of theology; Ray Powell, professor of accoun­tancy; Herbert Sim, professor of finance and business eco­nomics; Richard Stevens, asso­ciate professor of art, art his­tory and design; and Father Charles Weiher, assistant pro­fessor of philosophy. 
Advanced to the rank of professor from associate pro­fessor were Jacqueline Vaught Brogan, English; Patrick Dunn, aerospace and 

m e c h a n i c a I Thomas engineering; Bergin Stephen Fredman, English; Eugene Halton, ·sociology; Gary Hamburg, history; Ronald llellenthal, biological sciences; Thomas Kselman, history; Catherine LaCugna, theology; 
Eugene Livingston, physics; Scott Mainwaring, government and international studies; Richard Sheehan, finance and business economics; Stephan Stolz. mathe­

matics; and Michael Wiescher, physics. 
Receiving tenure was Ramachandran Ramanan, as­sociate pro­fessor of accountancy. 
Joseph New associate Brennan professors with tenure, promoted from assistant profes­sor, are Gary Bernstein, electri­cal engineering; Theodore Cachey , romance languages and literatures; John Cavadini, theology; Malgorzata 
Amoco awards honor ND profs 
Special to The Observer 
William Nichols, professor of accountancy at the University of Notre Dame, and Robert Howland, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, have been named recipients of the 1993 Amoco Teaching Awards for outstand­ing undergraduate teaching in 
the  University's College  of  
Business  and  College  of  
Engineering, respectively.  

Nichols, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1977. received his doctorate from Florida State University and his master's and bachelor's degrees from Western Michigan University. He also has received both the Senior Class Outstanding Teacher of the Year (1986) and the Executive MBA Outstanding Teacher of the Year (1987 and 1993) awards in the College of Business. 
The financial reporting stan­dards discussed and evaluated in Nichols' classes are a signifi­cant portion of the economic information he investigates in his research, in which he stud­ies how that information is reflected in stock market prices. 
His research has been pub­lished in several accounting and finance journals. Howland joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1981 and teaches the sopho­more mechanics sequence and the senior orbital mechanics course. He received his doctor­ate from North Carolina State, and his master's and bachelor's degrees from Yale University. 
For Full Meals Under $3... 
If value had a name. it would be Hacienda. No other full-service restaurant gives you so much great food for so little money. Including full meals every weekday for under $3. Plus FREE chips and sauce.* 
You Just Can't Beat Hacienda! 
Grape Rd./Indian Ridge Plaza U.S. 33 at 100 Center Scottsdale Mall 
Call-ahead seating available.
1.. + r ~ + .~~ ~n;;,ers~z,/"': 
·~ _.)...,. ~ '•~~~· T+ •J
--~-___ -~ ~-__________ .__ -~Ha<lt!i_1!1a 1.4f1XIeanRestau!:3~..!.99~ 
Dobrowolska-Furdyna, physics; Gregory Dowd, history; Matthew Dyer, mathematics; David Hachen ,sociology; Michael Kremer, philosophy; Georgine Resick, music; Father Timothy Scully, government and international studies; Michael Stanisic, aerospace and mechanical engineering; and Jerry Che-Yung Wei, manage­ment. 
Other promotions include Patti Ogden to librarian, Law Library; Laura Bayardto associ­ate librarian; and Bartley Burk to assistant librarian. Jadwiga Warchol was named faculty fel­low in physics. 
Promoted to professional spe­cialists were Sister Regina Coli, theology;Peter Lombardo , Center for Continuing Education; Father Donald McNeill, Center for Social Concerns; Robert Minniti , elec­trical engineering; Terrence Rettig, physics. Thomas Barkes, communication and theatre, and Todd Bemenderfer, College of Business Administration executive programs, were pro­moted to associate professional specialists, and Dianne Patnaude, physicaleducation, was promoted to assistant pro­fessional specialist. 
Faculty honored for 25 years of service were David Appel, marketing; Willis Bartlett, psy­chology; Father Thomas Blantz, history; Frank Bonello, econom­ics; Fabio Dasilva, sociology; Alan Howard, mathematics; Michael Loux,philosophy; Maurice Schwartz, chemistry and biochemistry; Paul Shanley, physics; Roger Skurski, eco­nomics; Walter Tomasch, physics; and Andrew Weigert, sociology. 
He also is a percussionist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. This is the second time Howland has earned his College's Outstanding Teaching Award -the first was in 1984. He additionally has earned the Minority Engineering 
Program Outstanding Service Award (1992), the American Society for Engineering Education AT&T Foundation Award (1985), the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Faculty Award (1984), and the Fenlon Teaching Award for the College of Engineering (1983) 
Howland's research focuses on celestial mechanics and non­linear dynamics. "I find that as a researcher I become a lot more sympathetic to my stu­dents," he says. 

r.... I GO REAUY IRISH!
I illJIreland Program 
I 
~ ' I INFORMATION SESSIONS: Saturday, August 28 
·~ 1 Friday, August 27 1:30p.m. 4:30p.m. 
Little Theatre DeBartolo Classroom Building Room 140 Notre Dame 
~.,.i ~\:~":.::!!, Collog• 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland
lii'J 
Everyone welcome!
~.'il 
The ride is 
To participate, take Transpo bus #7 which departs from in front oftheN~ library every beginning at 1:01 pm and returns from the Mall every half hour bcgmmng at I: 17 pm. The last bus departs from NO at 8:31pm and the last bus returns from the Mall at 8:47pm. To ride the bus for free, show your student J.D. to the bus driver who will then give you 
,-' 

a discount card that can use while you shop at the Mall. 
~ . 
1 
.~1 ~1/ ___./ ~.·01A ....... Transpo, and th~ University Park Mall. , 
L/~~ .,"..., I· 
--~­
Saturday, August 28, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page? 

Crews spend summer improving campus 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Sainr Mary's Editor 
Improvements to the interior and exterior of the residence halls, Haggar College Center and the Science Hall were made by the Saint Mary's build­ing and grounds crew through­out the summer, according to John Marshall superintendent of building and grounds. 
The crew installed 270 new fluorescent lights. mini-blinds in all rooms and new sinks and vanities in the student rooms on the 3rd floor of Le Mans Hall. Structural improvements will continue on the Le Mans bell tower through September 10. 
Other renovation and con­struction include: 
•The 
refurbishing and paint­ing of the interior of McCandless Hall and the instal­lation of new washing machines in the laundry room and sinks in student rooms. 

•The 
painting of the exterior of Holy Cross Hall and the 


installation of in some mini­blinds in rooms on the first floor. 
•The 
painting of the interior and resident rooms in Regina Hall , as well as the painting of the exterior of the hall. 

•The 
installation of a new energy management system was in Haggar College Center. The interior and exterior of the building were also painted. 

•The 
conversion of the motors in the Science Building to BSD or a variable speed drive which 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME GRADUATE STUDENT UNION SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
DATE  EVENT  
Sunday, August 29  Graduate Student Mass and Reception  
Sunday, August 29  Campus Tours-Feel free to bring  
family & friends  
Monday, August 30  Orientation Brunch for all students  
and their spouses*  
Monday, August 30  Professional Development Workshops  
for Advanced Graduate Students*  
Tuesday, August 31  "This is NO" video and Campus Tour­ 
Feel free to bring family & friends  
Thursday, September 2  Cookout for all graduate students and  
their families  
Friday, September 3  Welcome Back Party for all graduate  
students and significant others  
Saturday, September 4  Please visit our Concession Stand  
before, during and/or after the game  
*RSVP Required  

LOCATION 
Fischer Graduate Community Center Meet at main gate traffic circle Center for Continuing Education 
-Lower Level Dining Room CCE-Room 210 CCE -ETS Center -basement Fischer Graduate Community Center 
Wilson Commons-21 ID required In the front of LaFortune Student Center (West Side) 
will enable the new motors to run at 30 to 40 percent instead of 100 percent which will con­serve energy according to Marshall. 
•The 
installation of a new dish washer in the Dining Hall. 

•Repairs 
were also made to the arcade between O'Laughlin Auditorium· and Moreau Hall. Concrete was also repaired around campus and walkways were added on both the McCandless and Le Mans side of the Dining Hall. 


TIME 
Mass 10:30 AM Reception 11:30 AM 
3:00 PM -Canceled in case of bad weather 9:30AM -Registration begins at 10:00 AM 
1:00PM-4:30PM 
3:00PM-Cancelled in case of bad weather 5:00PM-7:00PM 
9:00 PM -12:30 AM 
Opens 9:00 AM 
SMC taps Nolan for admissions 
Special to the Observer 
Saint Mary's has announced the appointment of Mary Patricia Nolan as its new direc­tor of admission. 
Nolan had served as associ­ate director of admission at Saint Mary's since 1983. She brings 18 years of admission experience to her new position. 
Nolan earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Spalding College in Louisville, Ky. She began her career in the admission field at Spalding as a counselor in 1975, and served as the college's director of admission from 1977 to 1982. She was Spalding's director of admission and stu­dent services from 1982 to 1983. 
Currently Nolan is president of the Catholic College Admission Association and serves with several national, regional and state admission organizations. She recently was appointed to a three-year term on the board of directors of Leadership South Bend/Mishawaka. 
Notre Dame Folk Choir in Denver; 
This Tuesday 
The Office of Campus Ministry, the Graduate Student Union and Graduate School jointly sponsor the Graduate Student Mass and Reception as well as the Cookout. The Graduate Student Union and Graduate School together sponsor the remaining events. For fur­ther information, please contact the Graduate Student Union, LaFortune Student Center, Room 219, (219) 631-6963. 

r----------~--~---~-~-­
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT Saturday, August 28, 1993 
Imagine This ... 

Drown the Wildcats in a Sea of Blue. 
''The Shirt '93'' 
Available at: 
Football Ticket Sales Dining Halls LaFortune Information Desk The Notre Dame Bookstore The Alumni Association 
JACC Varsity Shop ~AsSOc. ~.I&~ All Proceeds Benefit Charitable and Student Organizations 'i .1111' ~· 
~------------~--~~-------.----------------------------------------------------~----~ 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 
Football ticket distribution to begin Tuesday 
By JOHN LUCAS Assistant News Editor 
The distribution of student football tickets will be com­pressed into three days instead of the usual week due to the early home opener against Northwestern on September 4, according to Director of Marketing Bill Scholl. 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are guaranteed tickets to this season's six home games. Ticket booklets cost $81 to be paid for in the form of cash or check. In addi­tion to payment, students must also present their valid student ID. Each student in line can hold up to four ID's. 
Seniors can obtain booklets 
beginning Tueday morning 
from 7 a.m. until 5 p.m. 
Juniors can obtain booklets on 
Wednesday from 7 a.m. until 2 
p.m., while law and graduate 
students recieve theirs from 2 
p.m. until 7 p.m. 
On Thursday sophomores can obtain booklets from 7 a.m. until 2 p.m., and freshmen re­ceive their tickets from 2 p.m. until 7 p.m. 
According to Scholl, Friday will be a "troubleshooting day" where any last minute prob­lems will be addressed. 
Seniors are not discouraged from camping out for tickets on Monday night, but Scholl em­phasized that being first in line does not guarantee seats on the 50-yard line. Since ticket book­lets are distributed from one end of the row to the other, camping seniors may find that they have tickets farther from the 50-yard line than they had expected. 
Students residing in the dorms will receive ticket appli­cations in their mailboxes by Sunday at the latest, according to Scholl. Off"Campus students can pick up their ticket applica­tions in a special line at the same time they are to be receiving their tickets. 
Saint Mary's students can ob­tain ticket applications on Monday, from 9 a.m. until 4 
p.m. in the Haggar Collge Center Parlor. 
There may be a "handful" o general admission tickets (GA's) for the Northwestern game, said Scholl. Interested students should check with the ticket office early in the week. 
page 9
The Observer • NEWS 
'Shirt' proceeds to benefit Broski 

Supply-SideEconomics. 
15.19 
Sale Desk size. 
Mead Cambridge day planners. Sale Personal size. 
2.99 Sale Swingline half strip stapler. 
#78881 
l29sale 2-pk. Fellows corrugated magazine files. 
Advertised Sale prices good through September 4, 1993. 
® 
TARGET. 
RIGHT. ON THE MoNEY• 
ByJOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
By purchasing The Shirt '93 and wearing it to the Northwestern game on September 4, students, par­ents, and alumni can show sup­port for the football team while making a charitable con­tribution, according to student organizers Jesse Ewan and Steve Hank. 
While the sea of colored shirts "supports the team by intimidating the opposition," according to Hank, all proceeds of the project will help defray the medical expenses of Todd Broski, a Notre Dame student paralyzed last year while play­ing rugby. 
"It's not just a stupid gim­mick," Ewan said, "The Shirt is something students parents and alumni can all get behind." 
Last year, the Committee sold over 41,000 forest green shirts, which represented a 400 percent jump over 1991. The proceeds of last year's shirt went to a variety of different causes, among them hurricane relief, the Northeast neighbor­hood and a scholarship fund in the•name of Coleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler. 
Despite only a week to mar­
ket The Shirt '93, before the 
early home opener against 
Northwestern, organizers of 
the charitable project are hop­
ing to meet or exceed last 
year's sales of over $200,000. 
"Last year we had three 
whole weeks to sell Notre 
Dame on The Shirt-this year 
we only have four days," Hank 
said. 
Hoping to use advertising to 
boost sales, commercials for 
the project will be aired during 
broadcast of "The Lou Holtz 
Show" ·on cable's 
SportsChannel America. 
Following up on the design of 
last year's successful model, 
this year's Shirt is navy blue, 
and like last year features a 
rendition of the Golden Dome 
on the front with the words 
Notre Dame Football. 
Featuring the traditional play­
er's salute to the "Twelfth 
Man," the back of the Shirt '93 
portrays a cluster of helmets 
held in the air with the words 
"Onward to Victory." 
Student and parents can pur­
chase The Shirt in a variety of 
places. The Shirt costs $14 for 
parents and faculty, but stu­
dents with a valid ID or a 
coupon that will be distributed 
this weekend can purchase the 
shirt for $10. 
The Hammes Bookstore, the 
JACC Varsity Shop, the infor­
mation desk at LaFortune 
Student Center and the Alumni 
Association will also be selling 
the Shirt this weekend. In ad­
dition, student can purchase 
the shirt outside the North and 
South Dining Halls from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m and from 5 p.m. until 7 p.m. from Tuesday until Friday. Also, shirts can be pur­chased while students wait in line for football tickets. 
Home Based Bed/Breakfast Alliance 
Local, Family Comfort for all ND activities 
(219) 271.-0989 
24 hour answering machine 

.. -----~-~ -------~~ 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Saturday, August 28, 1993 
Wheelchair developed atND 
Special to The Obeaver 
An autonomous wheelchair 
developed at the University of 
Notre Dame may provide help 
for severely disabled people 
who find powered wheel­
chairs difficult to navigate, 
even with joystick steering. 
According to Eric 
Baumgartner, who this spring 
earned his doctorate in 
mechanical engineering at 
Notre Dame, the autonomous 
wheelchair he has developed 
can be "taught" an unlimited 
number of paths frequently 
used at home or at work and, 
with a single command, can 
move from one point to 
another, even in close quar­
ters. 
Baumgartner has sought 
the advice of the staff of the 
Hines Veterans 
Administration Hospital near 
Chicago to develop the wheel­
chair. 
"They tell me such a chair 
could be quite helpful. for 
quadripalegics or people 
severely handicapped by 
cerebral palsey,"he says. 
Many individuals are able 
to manuever powered wheel­
chairs with joystick steering. 
Others are able to only with 
enormous concentration, tir­
ing easily and finding it diffi­
cult to concentrate energy on 
other tasks. Simply moving 
from one location to another 
takes a great deal of attention 
for them, and an autonomous 
wheelchair would help these 
patients save their strength 
for nonroutine manuevers. 
"In the work environment 
this is especially important," 
Baumgartner says. "It can be 
very frustrating and time con­
suming to put most of your 
energy and focus into naviga­
tion. If the wheelchair can do 
this for you, you will have 
more energy for other tasks." 
Baumgartner, working with Steven B. Skaar, an associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame, equipped a stan­dard powered wheelchair with two small video cameras mounted below the seat. The cameras detect small, visual wall cues mounted through­out the environment and feed this information to a personal computer also on board the wheelchair. The computer combines the information from the cameras with infor­mation from a device that senses the rotations of the two drive wheels to calculate precisely the location of the wheelchair. 
The computer's estimates of the wheelchair's position are accurate to within one inch, says Baumgartner, and orien­tation estimates are accurate to within one degree, making the wheelchair very practical in homes and offices where there is little room for error in maneuvering about. 
The wheelchair is taught various routine paths by a person manually leading the wheelchair through the desired path, which is then saved for future use. It's also possible for the wheelchair user to steer the chair through various paths with a joystick and then save these paths for later use. 
Baumgartner has attempted to keep the cost of the add-on components down to between $3,000 and $3,500. 
Craig receives five-year grant extension 
Special to The Observer 
Internationally known medi­cal entomologist George Craig, Clark professor of biological sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has received a five-year extension of a National Institutes of Health Merit Award that will fund his research with a total 0 f $2,345,901 from the grant's inception through 1998. The National Advisory Allergy and Infectious Diseases Council recommended the extension. 
The Merit Award was creat­ed to provide long-term stable support to investigators whose research competence and pro­ductivity are distinctly superior and who are likely to continue to engage in such outstanding research. Craig's primary in­terest is Aedes mosquitoes, a genus having more than 800 species that can carry yellow ft-Ver, dengue and other dis­eases. By 1999 Craig will have 

Prereqmsites. 
8.89 
Rubbermaid lYz bushel laundry hamper. Available in assorted colors ..· 
Style no. 2987 
3.97 
Rubbennaid 11/4 bushel laundry basket. Also in assorted colors. 
Style no. 2965. 
received 39 years of continu­ous research funding. 
A native of Chicago, Craig completed his undergraduate work in zoology at Indiana University and received his master's degree and doctorate in entomology from the University of Illinois-Urbana. He has spent his entire aca­demic career at Notre Dame, whose faculty he joined in 1957 as an assistant professor and director of the Vector Biology Laboratory. 
From the mid-1950s until 1975 Craig studied the genetics of Aedes aegypti, a mosquito that can carry yellow fever. His work demonstrated the genetic basis of traits important to the understanding of disease transmission and insect con­trol. Notre Dame-affiliated sci­entists have done about 80 percent of all genetic research on Aedes aegypti. 
By the late 1960s Craig and his associates had begun work in the reproductive physiology of mosquitoes, leading to the discovery that sexual receptiv­ity in female mosquitoes is hor­monally based and that the quantity of blood ingested is determined by the neural sys­tem. 
In 1969 Craig was named di­rector of the World Health Organization's Notre Dame­based International Reference Center for Aedes mosquitoes. In 1975 he received the Medal for Excellence in Teaching from the Entomological Society of America. 
Also in 1975, Craig shifted his research from tropical dis­eases and the Aedes aegypti to the Aedes triseriatus, a prima­ry carrier of encephalitis in the American Midwest. In the sev­eral years since the arrival in 
0 
TARGET. 
RIGHT. ON THE MoNEY• 
FURNISH YOUR DORM OR APARTMENT! 
SHOP AT 
CAROLINA FURNITURE OUTLET NORTH 
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT NORTH VILLAGE MALL ON US 33 NORTH. 
272-1022 

the U.S. of the Aedes albopic­tus, the Asian tiger mosquito, Craig and his associates have expanded their research to in­clude this new menace to pub­lic health. 
Craig is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the Indiana Academy of Science. He is a past president of the American Mosquito Control Association. 

-------~ ---------~--~---------.~-------------------.----~.-.---~~~~.-------~----~----~ 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
SMC offers new major options 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
In an effort to promote inde­pendence in student learning and as a way to provide a con­nection among disciplines, Saint Mary's students will be given an opportunity to design their own major beginning this school year. 
"It's a program for the stu­dent who has a clear sense of what they want to do," said Patrick White, associate dean of faculty. "It's an ideal program for students whose interests don't fit neatly into one major or even into a double major." 
Current sophomores will be the first students who are eligi­ble to design their own pro­grams. 
A formal proposal must be submitted no later than spring break during the student's sophomore year. A four-mem­ber Student-Designed Major (SDM) committee will adminis­ter the major and monitor the student's project if it is approved by the committee and the College's Curriculum Committee. 
Applicants must have at least a 3.2 GPA to apply. SDM's must also complete the College's core requirements in either a bachelor of the arts or a bachelor of science program. 
"The program is best for the self-motivated and independent student who is able to work on their own and make connec­tions between subjects and think in linkages," said Marcia Rickard, assistant professor of art who was involved in the planning of the SDM. "The stu­dent has to take charge of their intellectual development." 
The program consists of 30 credit hours of which at least eight courses are to be taken from the 300 and 400 level. Students who participate in the SDM must also complete the College's senior comprehensive and advanced writing proficien­cy requirements. 
The idea for the program grew out of a women's studies subcommittee discussion during the College's long range plan­ning discussions. 
"The idea started when a stu­dent wanted to major in women's studies and Saint Mary's only offers a minor in women's studies," said Phyllis Kaminski, women's studies coordinator. "We began talking and realized that there were other areas and disciplines where this could be helpful. After discussion and planning the academic council and cur­riculum committee approved the self-designed major on a trial basis." 
Kaminski, Rickard, and White all agreed that the program is only for the motivated student and that interested students must really think the decision through thoroughly before they submit their proposal. 
"This is not a program for a student who cannot make it in another major," Rickard said. "It's for the inventive, creative student seeking a larger frame­work for intellectual chal­lenge." 
While other colleges and uni­versities have similar majors, their programs did not serve as a model for the program at Saint Mary's. 
"Our program is a real good model because it has rigors and controls as well as a committee of faculty and students who will work together," White said. 
Add More 
Special to The Observer
Living Room To 
A $75,000 grant from Lilly Endowment, Inc. has enabled Saint Mary's to establish a comprehensive program for faculty. curriculum and student
Your Dorm Room. 
Textbooks the bookstore wouldn't buy back 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Back to the beach 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshman get to know each other dur­ing last night's Beach Party at Stepan Center. The Beach Party is just one of many social events planed for the summer. 
Lilly grant promotes Innovation 
sacademic development. The Center for Academic Jessica's phone 
Innovation will oversee current faculty development efforts at
number 
Saint Mary's, as well as create new programs to enhance pro­Professor fessional, curriculum and acad­Piper's emic development. The first 
homework two initiatives under the CFAI's direction are a faculty fellows program and an adaptation of a successful student-faculty research program. 
The CFAI Fellows Pro;gram will identify three faculty mem­bers annually to create specific programs that foster the intel­lectual, professional, teaching or scholarly development of
-faculty and students. Fellows also will serve as the Center's advisory board. 
The three faculty members chosen for the 1993-94 acade­mic year are Andrew Cutrofello, assistant professor of philosophy, who has designed a program that will invite graduate students from various colleges and universi­ties to Saint Mary's to share and examine the nature of the graduate studies experience; John Pauley, assistant profes­sor of communication, who will 
space without study the rationale of the College's required comprehen­
from your wallet. Use 
sive examinations; and Lauren
colors to complement those 
Strach, assistant professor of 
great college interiors. 
business administration and 
economics, who will assess the
2for$7Sale
® 
ways gender may affect the Saint Mary's curriculum. 
The Center also has created a new program for faculty
TARGET. 
research based on the College's 
Advertised prices good through 
Student Independent Study and Research program (SISTAR). The COSTAR program will begin in the summer of 1994. 
September 25. 1993. RIGIT. ONli-IE MoNEY• 
------~-­
Saturday, August 28, I 993 
page 12 The Observer • NEWS 
Malloy testifies before Senate about national service 
Special to The Observer 
University President Edward Malloy, told the U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources this summer that a national service initiative deserves support based on "the real business of serving others in need," not just as an alternative form of student financial aid. 
Speaking as chair of the board of directors of the American Council on Education, Father Malloy said in prepared testimony, "People from Notre Dame and other schools participate in service projects and dedieate time after 
Church attendance polls inexact 
Special to The Observer 
Church attendance among Protestants and Catholics is about half the levels common­ly reported in public opinion polls according to a new study. 
Sociologists Kirk Hadaway from the United Church Board for Homeland Ministries, Penny Long Marler from Samford University and Mark Chaves from the University of Notre Dame pre­sented their findings this month at the American Sociological Associations annual meeting in Miami. Their report will be published later this year in American Sociological Review. 
The study, based on actual head counts at Protestant and Catholic churches reports the approximately 20 percent of Protestants and 2H percent of Catholics attend .:burch in a given week. Those results are in sharp contrast to a recent Gallup survey in which self­reported church at atten­dance is placed at 45 peroent of Protestants and 51 percent of Catholics. 
"The major thrust of our study is quite simple," Hadaway said. "We found that the Gallup estimates of church attendance are way off. This has been suspected for some time and we expect­ed there would be a gap. but we didn't expect it to be as large as it is." 
Chaves, an assistant profes­sor of sociology at Notre Dame, attributes the gap to persistent problems with social surveys. 
"When peopte self-report in 
a survey, they tend to over­
report what they percieve to 
be socially desirable behav­
ior," he said. "You see the 
same phenomenon in voting. 
Most people believe voting or 
going to church is a good 
thing to do and, when sur­
veyed often say they did vote 
or go to church even when 
they didn't." 
By using head counts the 
researchers were able to 
eliminate the inflation inher­
ent in self-reports of partici­
pation and gain a more accu­
rate picture of true atten­
dance rates." 
The results for Protestant 
attendance are based on a 
study of Ashtabula County in 
northeastern Ohio. 
graduation to community ser­vice because of a deeply felt obligation to give back to those less fortunate than themselves, not because of monetary con­siderations." 
Malloy said further that a na­tional service initiative should not come "at the expense of need-based aid programs." Acknowledging that "some con­troversy seems to have arisen regarding the position of the higher education community on the (National Service Trust) Act," Malloy said the higher ed­ucation community "needs to feel confident that existing aid programs do not become vic­tims of national service, be­cause these programs have important roles regardless ... " 
"We should not be making tradeoffs between needy stu­dents and service," Malloy said. Service, he said, "does not ben­efit just students; it benefits communities across the country ..." At the same time, he said, "(we) cannot forget that more and more students come from nontraditional backgrounds which do not afford them the opportunity to participate in full-time national service." 
"Both national service and need-based aid have a place even in today's tight budgetary climate," Malloy said. "The cost of reducing need-based aid pro­grams is less access for those most in need of higher educa­tion. The cost of missing this opportunity to reengage young Americans in bettering society will not be manifest as quickly, but holds out the potential to damage beyond repair our already stretched social fabric. 
Describing the educational benefit of volunteer service, Malloy said "it is clear that par­ticipating in community service either during college or imme­diately after has a lifelong influ­ence on one's propensity to serve. We in higher education then have a great responsibility to encourage community ser­vice as part of the fabric of life in a college or university com­munity. 
"Notre Dame has taken this obligation seriously," Malloy said, noting that almost 70 per­cent of the University's students engage in a community service activity during their academic careers. He cited the University's decade-old Center for Social Concerns, which serves as the focal point for a variety of local, national and in­ternational service opportuni­ties for students and faculty and which helps integrate ser­vice and learning. "Meaningful community servic:e must pro­vide opportunities for faculty and students to reflect on their experiences and to explore the root causes of social problems," Malloy said. 
AT&T can help you save money whether you live on campus, offcampus, or somewhere in between. 

Choose AT&T and save up to 25%~ 
No matter where you choose to live, you can save money on your long distance phone bill with an AT&T Savings Option. It's all part of The i Plan~· The personalized plan designed to fit the way you call. 
To sign up for off-campus calling, or to get an AT&T Card, 
--­

• stop by our booth on campus or call 
-
-
I 800 654-0471, Ext. 4119. 
AT&T 
•savmgs based on AT&T Simple Savings Plan available to orr-campus students. C 1993 AT&T. 





page 13 
GSU hosts workshop, ortentatton 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
For the first time, Notre Dame graduate students will have the opportunity to attend one-day teaching and profes­sional workshops in addition to traditional orientation events, according to Reynold Nesiba, Graduate Student Union orien­tation coordinator. 
Today's workshops, co-spon­sored by the University Graduate school and the GSU, are designed to enhance grad­uate students' teaching skills before they plunge into the new school year, Nesiba said. 
"The workshops, in addition to the other events, have made this year's orientation week the most aggressive week of events that GSU has ever organized," said Nesiba. 
"Because so many of our graduate students plan college or university careers teaching within their disciplines, we want to do what we can to help them develop their teaching skills," said Nathan Hatch, vice president of graduate studies and research. 
The workshops, which are open to faculty as well, are usually offered throughout the semester, but were moved to orientation week in order to gain a greater amount of par­ticipation, according to Nesiba. A record number of students have already submitted RSVP's to the lectures, he added. 
"Notre Dame's best f.aculty are running the workshops, so we should have a great turnout," he said. 
The workshops include: 
•Course 
Design and Lecturing Tips, 102 DeBartolo, 9:00-10:30. 

•Science 
Labs: Elements of Design and Instruction, 136 DeBartolo, 11:00-Noon . 

•Engineering 
Labs: Elements of Design and Instruction. 138 DeBartolo, 11 :00-Noon. 

•Running 
Discussions Sections and Seminars, 102 DeBartolo, 11:00-Noon. 

•Teaching 
Across Gender and Cultural Differences, 102 DeBartolo, 1:00-2:00. 

•Testing, 
Grading, and the Honor Code, 102 DeBartolo, 2:00-3:00. 

•Teaching 
with Technology: An Introduction to the DeBartolo Classrooms, 102 DeBartolo, 3:30-4:30. 


Other events planned for ori­entation week include a mass, brunch, cookout. and welcome back party for graduate stu­dents. said Nesiba. In the past, both the mass and the cookout have drawn significant crowds, he added. 
"The mass is so popular that it outdraws the chapel in Fisher O'Hara Grace and we must use the community area for an expected standing room only crowd of 120 people," said Nesiba. "We also expect about 1,000 people at the cookout." 
Other events planned for Graduate School orientation week include: 
•Mass 
and Reception, August 29, Fisher Graduate Community Center, 10:30 a.m. 

•Campus 
Tours, August 30, meet at Main Gate, 3:00p.m. 

•Incoming 
Student Brunch, August 30, CCE dining room, 


10:00 a.m. 
• Ptofessional Development Workshops for Advanced Graduate Students, August 30, CCE room 210, 1:00 p.m. 

~------------------_,~--..---.~--~~~--~----------------------.---~------~~----~--~~----------~---------------------~----------~ 

diet center offers reductions 
like this. 
page 14 
Schurr: Dig to uncover artifacts 
Special to The Observer 
Work has begun in earnest this week on an archaeological dig at the site of the University of Notre Dame's earliest build­ings. Notre Dame anthropolo­gists hope to answer questions raised during a similar dig on the site two years ago, accord­ing to Mark Schurr, visiting assistant professor of anthro­pology, who will direct the pro­ject. 
Schurr says the main goal of the excavation is to examine a stratified historic deposit that lies between the University's first building, Old College, con­structed in 1843. and the Log Chapel, a replica of a building already in place when Holy Cross Father Edward Sorin arrived at the future campus in November 1842. Test excava­tions of the site in 1985 and 1991 located a stratified deposit of abundant historic remains overlying a buried soil surface containing prehistoric artifacts. 
A fire insurance map dating to 1885 shows several build­ings then on the site, including Old College (used as a farm­house at the time), a second farmhouse, two stables and a privy. This farm was discontin­ued around the turn of the cen­tury, when the University's farming operations moved to buildings on what is now the South Quad of campus and to St. Joseph's Farm. 

The Observer • NEWS 
Psychology internship explores pediatric health 
Special to The Observer 
Physicians, nurses and resi­dents are not always alone when they do rounds at Memorial Hospital's Newborn Intensive Care Unit (NICUl. This summer, twelve students from "Behavioral Pediatrics," a psychology class offered at the University of Notre Dame, join them, thanks to the Center for the Study of Children. 
The Center for the Study of Children. a collaborative effort between Notre Dame and Memorial Hospital of South Bend, sponsors a summer internship that supports inter­disciplinary training and research for students in issues related to child development and health. 
The internship, an integral part of "Psychology 375: Behavioral Psychology," is led by Kathleen Kolberg. adjunct professor of psychology. and Tom Whitman, professor of psychology, and gives students a chance to interact with clini­cal and academic health pro­fessionals in a variety of fields. 
The internship's goals, says Kolberg, who also serves as coordinator of the Center, are to expose students to basic principles of child develop· ment and health,to give stu­dents a working understand­ing of the team approach to child care services, and to teach the students to see patients as whole people rather than just cases. 
Students complete rounds with Dr. Robert White, direc­tor of the Newborn Intensive Care Unit. With White. they review every patient's case at bedside and then later discuss the day's cases, posing any questions they may have about what they have seen. 
"It's very important for pre­medical and medical students to be exposed to this interdis­ciplinary approach to medi­cine," says White. "Students should learn that it's not only chemistry. biology and physics. Feeling and the way society addresses certain issues is equally important to the health of an individual and the country." 
The internship consists of two weekly sessions, in which current readings on a vareity of topics are discussed. and one weekly set of rounds in the NICU. Interns may also become involved in medical or psychological research being carried out in the hospital as well. Both in the classroom and at the hospital, interns are in contact with a wide range of professionals..,_ neonatologists, neurologists. social workers, psychologists, therapists and biologists. 
Guest lectures have Included Victoria Peetz, pediatrics clin­ical specialist; Dr. Robert Shuman, neurologist; and Cindy Bender, ethics program coordinator of the center. 
"One of the most interesting parts orthe class has been the guest speakers," says Saule Sadunas. a returning Nqtrf:l Dame senior. 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 
Ross, Morrissey head, wins Toohey award 


.I ······~ .. .. ••-~""~··_,,,_.~,~~itijj~~~.,..-~.·..······.~r.·.·J ~..·J·m.l~n:.\:~s.\.li'":_.:·.·.. .. u~~ ~·· 
,ff L.· ·t:t • .... 
--;.--'-~ 
Apple Macinlrub · Apple Macintasb LC l/1 Color Qassic• 4/IXJ. Buill-in J(l' 41/XJ, Apple Billie Color Color Monitor & Apple Keyboard II. Monitor &Apple Keyboard II. 
Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh~ personal computers. You can also get special student financing with tl1e Apple" Computer Loan·-to make owning aMac·' even easier. Th 
Not even your local 

Built-in Ke:Jboard & JU' Backlit Super TwisJ Monochrome Dis[Xay. 
see just how affordable aMacintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the power more college students .;. choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your bese .-® 
Special to The Observer 
Father Joseph Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall at the University of Notre Dame, will receive the 1993 William Toohey, C.S.C. Award, according to Father Richard Warner, counselor to Notre Dame's president and director of campus ministry. 
The Toohey Award is given annually to a member of the Notre Dame community whose preaching, writing or example emphasizes the social dimen­sion of the Gospel in a remark­able way. 
A native of Pomona, Calif., Father Ross was graduated from Loyola-Marymount University in Los Angeles in 1980. He taught high school for two years in Irvine, Calif., before entering the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1983. He received a master's degree in theology from Notre Dame in 1988 and was ordained to the priesthood the following year. 
In addition to his duties as rector, Father Ross teaches a popular freshman seminar course entitled "Justice. Peace and Liberation in Catholic ... Thought." Its two thematic questions, Can a Christian be ­wealthy? and Can a Christian go to war?. frequently arise in homilies which he gives during liturgies in Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart. the University's residence halls. and South Bend's Catholic Worker House. 
The Toohey Award memorial­izes a Holy Cross priest who directed Notre Dame's campus ministry office from 1970 until his death on October 13, 1980. 
Yo lark! 
Rally Caps were as cool in 1972 as they are now! Happy 21st B'day! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Dave, Amy and you know who! 
Notre Da~e Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
---------------------~~--------~~·~·----------------~------~~-----~--­
VIEWPOINT 

Saturday, August 28, 1993 page 15 
THE OBSERVER NOTRE DAM~ OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARYS OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 1993-94 General Board Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Bwiness Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy Nevvs Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Banh Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edito;, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary'sEditor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns prsent the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leuers is encouraged.  
Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Maty's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Bwiness Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471  



How the Viewpoint section works 
The Observer's policy on letters, columns, and the rest 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may sub­mit columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. Individuals not associated with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community are also welcome to sub­mit, but preference is given to mem­bers of the University communities. 
II. All material submitted to the Viewpoint department becomes the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organiza­tions, those organizations which have a reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Ob­server is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in­chief or the permission of the manag­ing editor and the Viewpoint editor. 
III. The Viewpoint department re­serves the right to edit all commen­taries submitted to the Viewpoint de­partment. The Observer has no obli­gation to print commentaries submit­ted. Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible or irrelevant as applied to interest of a particular issue on a local, national, or world interest on a particular issue, its extension of existing issues on the Viewpoint pages, and/or its role in fos­tering spirited and intelligent discus­sion. A disclaimer will appear with any letter deemed highly graphic, profane or discriminatory, yet nonetheless rel­evant. The disclaimer will appear at the beginning of the letter and will alert readers to the serious nature of the piece in question. 
IV. All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. 
DOONESBURY 
V. Commentaries submitted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academ­ic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organization may have their com­mentaries appear in print as colum­nists. 
VI. All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified be­fore being printed. Authors of all columns, letters to the editor, quotes. poems and cartoons must be notified before being published in The Observer. 
VII. Only those individuals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organiza­tion's name. In such cases, the prima­ry author of the commentary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the organization. 
VIII. Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other news­papers, magazines or publications. In exceptions, the author of the previous­ly printed material must give legal consent. Exceptions to this procedure are those organizations of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure. 
IX. The opinions expressed in the Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House editorials appear in the Viewpoint sec­tion of The Observer. Regular colum­nists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; poems, quotes and cartoons are com­mentaries. Such status is determined by the Viewpoint editor in all inci­dences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the In­sta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. 
X. Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their com­mentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regu­lar columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. 
XI. This policy must be approved be the editorial board and can be amend­ed by a majority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not covered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. The procedures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint de­partment of The Observer. 
XII. No commentaries of any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint sec­tion concerning any candidate for stu­dent government or hall office once the official campaign period has begun for that office. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer reserves the right to comment on any ,candidate or issue it wishes throughout the cam­paign period. At any time, the editor­in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII. This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The 
Observer. 
IJ.Et.i., leT 
M/3 5/3e. ... 
HW A80UT 
TWAY, SIR? 
I 
Freshmen make Viewpoint go 'round 
Sure, a freshman's first weekend at college is an exciting one. But don't expect the innocent giddiness of the graffitti dance to last. Pretty soon, the random acts of campus terrorism will begin. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have long been known as places where there are few apathetic squealers. All of those run and hide from mili­tant feminists, ranting war hawks in ROTC uni­forms, and the largest, loudest unrecognized gay and lesbian group in Michiana. And like it or not, every freshman will soon be swept up in the tsunami of political demonstrations. 
But, as every non-freshman knows, the most heated, virulent debate at Notre Dame occurs not in Freshman Seminar, but in the Viewpoint pages of The Observer. And without making a picket sign, finding an old-fashioned wire coathanger or writing a folk song, you can be a part of it. 
Through letters, columns and poetry. students can move their arguments beyond the late­night bull sessions that are a part of every freshman's life. They can send their opinions, political and social, to the campus-wide arena, and initiate dining-hall discussions. 
Every weekday, the Viewpoint section offers the students, faculty and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's something to think about. Maybe it's something esoteric and/or preten­tious, but it's something nonetheless. 
During the spring semester; no op-ed page in the country lacked copy on national issues like abortion and homosexuals in the military. and Viewpoint received more than its share of let­ters. Local issues were prominent, too, as the ramifications of the Colloquy to the Ye~r 2000 appeared frequently on our pages. 
Each fall semester, when upperclassmen and faculty are still tired after a long summer, freshmen carry the load in Viewpoint. Our most inflential, incendiary letters are sent to The Observer by freshmen, who are enthusiastic and interested in most everything about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We rely onfreshmen to jump start debates every fall, and every fall, they succeed. 
Rolando de Aguiar Viewpoint Editor 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NO CANro I'n3 
Het...
G<JTA ON& O'CUX'J'. 
YCXJ61JTNITH BIJIPPI..-AT 
A /l161TAL­
CAF& RAJJBUJS. 
A~ISTANT, lW,SIR~ 
"The past is but the beginning ofa begin­ning, and all that is and has been is but the twi­light of the dawn." 
H.G. Wells 

ORIENTATION WEEKEND '93 
TOBACCO POLICY 
In accordance with an administrative directive issued before last school year, all buildings on the Not,re Dame campus are smoke-free .1n their entirety. This ban extends to the seating area of Notre Dame Stadium. Chewing-tobacco is not expressly included among the substances prohibited indoors. Ash cans are provided outside most buildings for the oonvenience of smok­ers. Your cooperation is appreciated. 
CAMPUS SECURITY 
For your protection Notre Dame em­ploys a staff of uniformed police officers who provide 24-hour foot and vehicular patrols on the cam~ pus property. Additionally, eighteen emergency call boxes are spread across campus. To contact the Security Building (directly below on map) from any campus phone, dial x4444. From 8:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. the SafeWalk program provides afre~ campus escort service; call 634-BLUE. 
DINING HALLS 
Students who live in residence halls are automatically charged for 21 meals per week, regardess of hJN many of these meals are actually eaten. South Dining Hall (direct­ly above on map) and North Dining Hall feature identical menus and the same hours of operation, which vary during finals and vacation weeks but otherwise are: Breakfast.........?:()() a.m.-9:00a.m. Continental.. ....9:00 a.m. -10:00 am. Lunch............11 :00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. Dinner ............ .4:45 p.m.-6:45p.m. '\;;~;a 
COMPUTER·USER CLUSTERS 
To help complete homework Notre Dame features · over 500 computers distributed among · several locations. These clusters, which support Macintosh and PC platforms, are networked to several laser printers. at each location which output work at ~. no charge. Clusters can be found in · the following buildings: Architecture, Computer/Math, DeBartoJo, Fitzpatrick, Hayes-Healy, Hesburgh Library, LaFor­tune, Nieuwland Science, O'Shaugh· nessy, Pasquerilla Center, and Security. 
STUDENT REGISTER · ·... For those of you who are unfamiliar with the above term (upperclassmen included), it is the official name for what is more roUtinely and infamously known on campus as the Oogbook. This thin, bound black-and-white volume contains the photograph and brief bio­graphical information each incoming freshman was requested to provide shortly after being admitted. Its reputation is for frequently bein!_1 the sole basis for selecting one's date to dorm1-Leprecbaun n~ tory-sponsored theme dances (also known as e oarne. "SYR"s, for which one is "set-up") and formals. ~~~rts {an 
""111/ffU, •.. ''1/fffl/1!1#1• . l'','fllfPffftl;/i ' ..•... 
SAINT MARY'S COWGE LAUNDRY SERVICE 
Notre Dame's sister school is located Former1y available only to males directly·across South Bend's major the campus laundry service is north-SOuth:highway, u.s. 33/Busi­students for a fee. A contract 
t ness31 (qir~ly behind this panel services can be purchased for $ ·on map). The sbtiOOis otteran «»(• • without the contract, transacti 
change program via which stu­charged to your student account. dents from both institutions may · · complete with your account nu take advantage of the opportuJ')lty .. Bundled laundry is collected at to stucy on the neighboring ihstnu.; · .;;ilile for you to pick up at the Lau 
tion's campus. AI~(}\ tiJ~ · I ·.· · (directly below on map); the sch ""',n,.,.n.,,... , the ~rei,JJ/dti is posted in your dorm. Other dry cleaning, tailoring/alterations, 
,ijj •· 
slot tor rs to post­
mark~ "Notre Dame, IN." 
AU.mail not dropped in this slot will be postmarked "South Bend, IN." Be fore­warned: the usual long lines often prevent being helped at the counter inJhe 15 minutes " between back-to-back classes. 
ALCOHOL POLICY PARIETALS RULES 
According to du Lac: Student Life Poli­As a feature of its ;n loco parentiscies and P(O.Ce<Jures, "students are respon­enforces restrictions upon the 
. for cqmpliancewith Indiana Criminal hours of guests of the oooa1sltt Law r~gard,ing ~lcot)q! cqnsumptk>n. The Uni­Beginning at 11 ;00 a.m. dailyversity will enter.a..private residehce room for the ··football Saturdays, in which case purpose of enfort:ing·f~a 1/lWs.ifdrirtking in such a.m.) aru;i ending at midnight on a room beoomes public in anyW(lY,.'' Public is defined through Thursday and 2:00 a.m. as that which extends beyond the •· •. · · • .· • the and Saturday, students l!)njoy room. It clarifies: "No alcoholic · be tation. Violations of these rules carried in. open containers in the rs or ered serious, and can result in other public area of the residence halls such as dismissal of the offender. Male lounges or lobbies." So keep it in your room. tied on this map in blue text, 
-·­

-

NOTRE DAME o INDIANA 
.. 

COLLEGE L-----~~--~~~--~~~~----~~--------~~~--~~~~~~------------------------------------~~--------~ 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych Saint Mary's Editor 
TOBACCO POLICY. Saint Mary's will begin this academic year with a new smoking policy in effect.The new policy permits smoking in student rooms as agreed upon by roommates. Students may also smoke in the vending areas of the resi­dence halls. Smoking is now prohibited in all other public areas in the residence halls as well as in the library, science hall, Haggar College Center and the administrative areas in Le Mans Hall and Madeleva Hall. 
SECURITY POLICE. The Saint Mary's security department provides 24-hour services to its stu­dents, faculty, and staff. In addition to vehicular­and foot patrol, the officers also provide many other services to the College. Security offers an escort service from any parking lot or building on campus during the hours of darkness. For any student stranded off-campus the security office also pro­vides a service which will either send an officer or a cab to bring the student back to campus (students must reimburse security for cab fare). Call boxes identifiable by blue emergency lights around the campus provide a direct line to security when stu­dents need assistance or help. To reach security call284-5000, for emergencies dial 911 and for information dial 284-4000. 
DINING HALL. Beginning this year the Saint Mary's Dining Hall, under the direction of Marriott Food Service, will begin a new carte blanche meal plan. All resident students will be allowed unlimited access to the dining hall from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. On weekends food service provides a continental breakfast, available from 9:00a.m. to 10:30 a.m., brunch from 10:30 
a.m. to 12:30 p.m., grill and salad bar entrees from 
12:30 p.m. to 2:30p.m., and dinner from 4:45p.m to 6:00 p.m. Special hours for football Saturdays will be posted in the dining hall. 
ALCOHOL POLICY. Saint Mary's complies with Indiana State law and, therefore, students under the age of 21 are not permitted to possess or con­sume alcohol on campus. Students over the age of 21 are the only students permitted to to consume alcohol on campus. Social gatherings with alcohol are permitted in student rooms as long as all guests present are 21 years of age or older, alco­holic beverages remain in the room, and the event does not infringe on the rights of others. 
SHUITLE. United Limo provides shuttle service between the campus of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame beginning August 30. The shuttle stops at various points on both campuses approximately every 15 minutes Monday through Friday during daytime hours and every 30 minutes on evenings and weekends. The service is free during the day and costs 25 cents on evenings and weekends. 
PARIETAL RULES. Male visitors to Saint Mary's must be escorted at all times in the residence halls. Visitation hours are from 10:00 a.m. to midnight Monday through Thursday and 1 0:00 a.m. to 2:00 
a.m. Friday and Saturday. Male guests are never permitted in the College's tunnel system. 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT. Want to become a member of a campus club or organization? Representatives from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame organiza­tions will be available to answer questions and sign up new members at the College's Activities Night. Angela Athletic Facility will host the annual event September 8 from 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
COMPUTER-USER CLUSTERS. Facing your first college term paper? Want to send electronic mail to your friends on another campus? Saint Mary's computer lab provides these services and more in each of its main labs and six computer clusters on campus. The main Macintosh lab and IBM-compatible lab in the basement of Le Mans Hall is open 24-hours with lab assistance and laser printers available from 7:30 a.m. to midnight, with extended operating hours during the latter half of the semester. Computers are also located in the writing center, basement, and mezzanine of the library, room 232 of Madeleva, the basement of Regina North, and in the science hall. Every stu­dent will receive an e-mail account and password at registration which she may access from any computer on campus, with special computers in the writing center being set aside specifically for e-mail. 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY. This recreation­al facility provides courts for tennis, basketball, vol­leyball, and racquetball, as well as a nautilus and fitness center and a .1 0 mile walking and jogging track. The facility is open from 8:00 a.m. to 11 :00 
p.m. Monday through Friday, from 9:00a.m. to 
11:00 p.m.on Saturday, and from noon to 11:00 
p.m. on Sunday. 
----~ 
------~---. 
ACC6,NT ­
Saturday, August 28, 1993 page 19 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Welcome 'The New Kids' To The Bend 
Greetings from a 
Notre Dam.e freshtnan 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
I can't believe you left me here all by myself. The minute you guys pulled away from Notre Dame everything went wrong. 
I can't find the bag that had my tooth­brush and toothpaste in it. All I could do when woke up this morning is rinse my mouth with Scope. I just know my room­mate thinks I'm gross. Plus, she snores so loud, I had to go buy earplugs today. 
I tried to go to my eight o'clock class but, mom I just can't wake up without you turning my lights off and on and singing your redition of "Waking Up Is Hard To Do". 
Dad, you know how you said I'd be safe if I just stuck with eggs. Well I went to eat breakfast this morning and got eggs just like you said. And they ran right off my tray. 
Can you guys come pick me up this weekend? 
Dear Susie, 
I guess Notre Dame's going okay. My parents just left a few days ago and now I feel kinda lost. I cried at the first mass my dorm had. Everyone did. 
The dinning hall food's runny, but it's okay. They have YoCream so that's cool. 
I have an eight o'clock so that's kind of hard. Plus Chemistry and Calc are going to be tough. And this parietal stuff is really a downer. There aren't that many cute gnys either. 
I'm not sure I made the right decision. Maybe I should have gone to a state school like you. 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
Thanks for the care package. It was really great. All my friends were kinda jealous. Can you send another one next week, with more pretzels. 
School's going okay I guess. I wake up now early enough now to make it to my morning classes and Chern and Calc aren't as bad as I though they would be. 
There's a nice boy that I meet yesterday. We're going to mass together this coming Sunday. 
Dear Susie. 
You're going to die, I have so much to tell you. 
I went to this great party on Friday night. It was in one ofthe 
guys dorms. Everyone was all cramped in the room and it was hot and really sweaty. Some really hot guy spilled beer all over me. so then my shirt was soaking wet and he pointed out that it was kinda see-through. I was so embarrased. But what an ice­breaker, we ended up talking to each other all night. We're going to another party together tomorrow night. He said some­thing about mass on Sunday too. 
I never go to my eight o'clock anymore and I think I'm failing Chemistry. I had to drop Calc altogether. 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
I must admit, things are starting to look up. 
I took a Chern test the other day. I'm sure I got an A. I studied with a classmate until almost 4 a.m. 
My roommate is very fun.. We get along great. {Her snoring 
isn't as annoying anymore). 
P.S. -They switched me out of that Calculus class for some reason. I think they think I should be in a higher level next semester or something like that. 
Dear Susie, 
I'm in trouble. I'm sure I just failed one ofmy tests. See, I had 
a date with this really cute guy in my class. He asked if we 
could study together. but we both knows what that means. 
Except he was really serious about studying so I got mad and I 
told him to go to the library. Then I was so depressed I just fell 
asleep at ten and never studied for the test. My parents are 
absolutely going to kill me when grades come out. 
My roommate's a riot. She's sitting here laying off the side of 
her bed with the worst hangover ever. She made such a fool of 
herself last night. It was great. 
Plus I totally changed my major. I think. I can't decide. What 
do you think has more possibilities: being an art history major 
or a anthropology one? 
Dear Mom and Dad, 
Everything's great. 
I'm not coming home for October break so I'll see you at 
Christmas. 
By the way, I need money. Can you send it Western Union? 


College students grow to love pizza and other off-campus foods 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
T
he warnings keep coming but freshman never believe them. 
Well it's time to face facts ­the 'freshman fifteen' are run­ning around aimlessly and they will attach themselves to any freshman they car find. 
It's absolutely inevitable. 
So accept it and move on with~ the rest the crew to the hot eateries of South Bend. 
The one item of food that col­lege students become most familiar with is pizza. Now there are your deliveries and your eat-ins. If at all possible, choose the latter. 
First-choice places to eat out are Bruno's, Rocco's and Barnaby's. Bruno's, by far, has stolen the hearts of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"Although located all the way across town [2610 Prairie Ave]. the drive over is well worth it," said senior Kristin Stovall, a Pasquerilla West resi­dent assistant. 
"The only thing is after two huge pieces you're full, but its so good you still want to eat. 
Be sure to go there very hun­gry, Stovall advises. 
Rocco's {537 N. St. Louis Blvd.) and Barnaby's (713 E. Jefferson) are close runner ups and are probably more popular for pre-and post-game dinning. 
"It's always been tradition for my family to go out to Barnaby's after a game," said senior Jeanne Fitzgerald. 
"It's a great family dining 
place with an obvious flair of 
the 'Fightin' Irish' spirit." 
Senior Angela Rathweg had 
the same sentiments about 
Rocco's. 
"As an alumnus my father 
taught me everything I needed 
to know about Notre Dame: the 
fight song and Rocco's." 
Then there are those that de­
liver: Domino's, Papa John's 
and Pizza Hut. 
"Papa John's is by far the fa­
vorite, but their delivery takes a 
while, especially on game 
days," said senior Levell 
Littleton. "At least you know 
Domino's will be there in 30 
minutes." 
For quick reference, here are the numbers-you'll need to re­fer to them around 1 a.m. of next week. 
Domino's: 271-0300 
Papa John's: 271-1177 
Pizza Hut: 271-1166 
But for those who will try desperately to wean themselves away from pizza, there are sev­eral other options: 
Cactus Jack's {1827 South Bend; 277-5225): This as authentic as Mexican food as going to get in South Bend. It's close and it's good food, which can only be made better with good friends. 
Chili's Bar and Grill (4810 Grape Rd.; 271-1330): The popularity of this restaurant is catching on fast. Always crowded, but never a long wait, Chili's is the only place in South Bend with sizzling fajitas and a tasty Chicken Caesar Salad. 
CJ's (1417 N. Michigan; 233­5981): When you want a burg­er, CJ's is the place. Sometimes referred to as "that hole in the wall downtown", CJ's small confinements are cozy and comfortable as "Rick" takes your order for the best home­made burgers around. 
Great Wall (130 Dixie Way S.; 272-7376): For the Midwest, this is the best anyone will find as far as Chinese food. Inside scoop: call the orders in and then pick up. 
Macri's Deli (6502 Grape Rd.; 277-7273): Macri's is known around town for their deli­catessen sandwiches. There's usually a long wait, especially on Friday nights, but the crowd is generally those of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's so you're bound to see someone you know. 
Studebagels (1801 South Bend Ave.; 277 -4440): With its grand opening just last semes­ter, this eatery has claimed much praise. There are a vari­ety of bagels to choose from and bring back to the dorm, or there are custom-prepared bagel sandwiches which can be eaten there. 
Taco Hell (sorry, minor slip­that's Taco Bell): As tasteless as this place may be, it's great for a student's budget. Anyone could fill up on $3.00. Also, it's the easiest place to get to off campus by simply taking the bus. 
And after discovering all these places, there are two more places that are a must: Loftus Sports Center and Rockne Memorial (aka "The Rock"). 
Rockne is located on the far end of South Quad and is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stud~nts. 
The equipment ranges from stairmasters to treadmills to free-hand weights. 
The facility also houses a swimming pool and indoor bas­ketball and racquetball courts. Building hours are 7 a.m. to 11 
p.m. on weekdays and 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. on weekends. 
Loftus Sports Center can be found on the opposite side of campus near the Joyce Athletic Convocational Center (JACC). 
Although full of state of the art weight equipment, non-var­sity athletic students can only use the indoor track and the machinery contained in that section, which includes a stair­master, a treadmill, two sta­tionary bicycles, a rowing machine and a newly installed Nordic Track. 
Loftus is open from 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 6:30. to 11 p.m. on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 10 
p.m. 
on Saturdays and 12 to 10 

p.m. 
on Sundays. 




The Observer/Jake Peters These restaurants have become common sights for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students throughout the years. 
-ACCE-NT
page 20 Saturday, August 28, 1993 
The South Bend area and its neighbors: What to do, where to go and how to get there 


Chicago, the Windy City, is the third largest metropolitan area in the country and is all of two hours away from South Bend. Students may just gofor a day of shopping, but many take in a musical or a ball game. 
The toll road goes straight to Chicago. but be sure to have lots o} change. 
A Windy City Shuttle runs between Notre Dame and Chicago with a fare of $10 on weekends. 
:. 

The Warren Dunes are the hot spot during August, Septemberand May. The Dunes offer a chance for students to escape from the hustle and bustle of col­lege by swimming, laying out and just being with friends for the day. 
·.
' ··..
·

..·.·.·. .. 
...• 
··... 
~····································· ... ..... 
.. ..
~ 

. • 
................... 


Michigan City has become a haven for many students. With its discount prices rangife from 25 to 75 per­
cent o selected items such as Ni e . J. Crew. Polo and Anne Klein products. About 50 minutes away. MichiganCity is located right off-the toll road (80/90 West) at the Michigan City exit. 
Snite Museum offers community variety of activities and discoveries 
Obs"rv"r Staff R.,port 
The Snite Museum of Art has 
something for everyone, 
whether his or her special
--something is an ancient sculp­tural representation of an Hindu God, the best film at the Sundance Film Festival, or big hunks of black metal somehow twisted into something grace­ful. This fall, the cultured folks at the Snite will continue to offer the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities something that few others in South Bend can serve up: great art. Featuring a permanent col­lection of some 19,000 objects. the Snite limits itself to no par­ticular field. The museum houses paint­ings, sculpture, film, photogra­phy and clothing, and hosts films and musical perfomances, as well. The pieces range from the incomprehensibly ancient to the ultramodern, from finely detailed realism to simply ele­gant abstraction. Some of the most popular attractions at the museum are the frequent showings of movies. many of which did not make the rounds at most sub­urban multiplexes (yours included). Two dollars a ticket to see Casablanca next weekend (four showings, mind you). and the same price for such critcally acclaimed films of the past year 
Notre Dame has many ofit's own special attractions. When students aren't fre­quenting the Snite, they can play basketball at Stepan or swim at St. Joseph's Lake. Movies are shown in the Cushing Auditorium every ... Friday and Saturday night. And there's always some­thing going on in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

The Observer/Jake Peters" Robert Schmidt is one of many sculpturors currently on view at the Snite. 
as El Mariachi, Like Water for Chocolate and Menace II Society. Get there early for the big titles, because everyone knows that the Snite is their last chance to catch these films before they're forever relegat­ed to videotape. 
If you have trouble finding the Snite, just look for a tower­ing mass of black metal which looks as though it will fall over any moment. That sculpture. outside the Snite's front door, is David Hayes' Griffon. 
Hayes, a 1953 graduate of Notre Dame. constructed the piece out of several tons of steel, and his Griffon guards the Snite menacingly. 
But don't let Griffon's looks scare you. Inside the building. there's a lot to look at, and even more to learn. 
There are two shopping malls available to students in the South Bend area. The closest is University Park Mall (UP) on US 23. A bus goes directly from the librar!/ circle to the mall from mornmg until night. Stuclents can shop in such stores as The Limited, Camelot Music and The Gap. 
Another bus will transport students to the Scottsdale Mall on Ireland. It's much further than UP, but it is a bit larger with different. speciality stores. 
There is a little plaza on Grape Road that has become a favorite of many students. with Pharmor. T.J. Maxx and Waccamaw. 
Stu ent Union 
Board enhances first 
week of fall semester 
Not one year shall pass by that Student Union oard (SUB) won't sponsor a number ofevents t 
ick~off the start of a new semester. Packed with 

activities, the first three to four weeks of th chool year will be something all students wil 
want to experience. 
Welcome Weekend: 
Thursday, Sept. 2 -Big Surf Drive-In Movie. SUB is bringin 
ack the days of double features and drive-ins. The showings wil e "say anything" and "Singles" and will begin at dusk a ieldhouse Mall. 
Friday, Sept. 3-Live at Stonehenge it's Rockfest II. From 8:3 .m. until everyone leaves. SUB will present an array of studen ands and provide refreshments. 
Saturday, Sept. 4 -FREE! FREE! FREE! (not something you' ear at Notre Dame too often) From 6 to 7 p.m. students can pia ideo games in the basement of LaFortune for free and from 6 .m. to 1 a.m. students can shoot pool for free in the LaFortun ames Room. Also "Cliffhanger" will show in the Montgomer heater at 7, 9:30 p.m. and 12 a.m. 
Sunday, Sept. 5 -For $3 students can catch the comedy o 'hris "Crazy Legs" Fonseca and Buzz Sutherland. The comedian· ill start their show at 8 p.m. in 101 Debartolo. 
Other activities, sponsored by a variety of organizations. are a 
ollowed: Aug. 30-Taste ofND (picnic), 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.. Stepan Field Sept. 1-Western Style Dinner Picnic, 4:30 to 6:30p.m.• Stepa 
ield 
Sept. 7 -Student Activities Night, 7 to 10 p.m .• Joyce Athleti onvocational Center Sept. 9 -Acoustic Cafe, 9 p.m .. LaFortune Student Center (firs oor) 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Florida State prepares for opener 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD When you're No. 1, there's nowhere to go but down. 
That's the problem facing top-ranked Florida State as it prepares for its season opener Saturday against Kansas in the Kickoff Classic. The Seminoles are 26-point favorites, and any­thing less than a decisive victo­ry will be considered a disap­pointing performance. 
"Kansas has everything to gain and nothing to lose," coach Bobby Bowden said. "We have everything to lose and very little to gain." 
Bowden knows that presea­son hype doesn't always trans­late into immediate success. In 1988, another No. 1 Florida State team opened with a 31-0 loss to Miami before winning 11 in a row. 
"We've learned not to pay attention (to preseason rank­ings)," Bowden said. "In '88, we believed everything they were saying about us. Then we learned they were lying." 
Kansas, 26th in the presea­son poll, has made a remark­able turnaround under Glen Mason. 
When he became coach in 1988, Kansas was one of the worst teams in the country. But Mason has now led the Jayhawks to two straight win­ning seasons, including an 8-4 record and Aloha Bowl victory over BYU last year. 
"They remind me of us a few years after I got here," said Bowden, who also took over a losing program and quickly turned it into a winner. "They're getting better every year, and they're playing with a lot of confidence." 
Former Kansas great Gale Sayers has expressed concern that a lopsided loss to Florida State could discourage the Jayhawks and start the team on a downward spiral. But Mason prefers to put a positive spin on the situation. 
"This is an opportunity to test ourselves against the best," he said. "We're just happy to have a chance to play a team like Florida State. I don't think we would have been invited unless someone thought we were up to the challenge." 
Kansas quarterback Fred Thomas, who will make his first career start on Saturday, said the Jayhawks won't be intimi­dated by the Seminoles. 
"We're not afraid of anyone," Thomas said. "They have some great athletes, but we have some great athletes, too. We wouldn't be playing them if we didn't think we had a chance to win." 
Still, Mason and his team know there is a reason they are huge underdogs. 
Florida State is loaded with talent on offense, where quar­terback Charlie Ward runs a no-huddle, shotgun attack that was virtually unstoppable last season. 
It's known as the "fast break offense," a reference to Ward's other starring role as a point guard on the Seminoles' bas­ketball team. 
"Their offense is so versatile, it's scary," said Kansas defen­sive tackle Chris Maumalanga. "They can run, they can pass, they can do it all." 

Marley looks to  Robinson's return begins in Pigskin Classic  
make impact Aaeociated Preu CO . ES Uke his famous father, Rph~¥arley wants to make an .intp · · tu do it this season as•an backer for the Miami H ''We have that Vtgl'!~o .···· Rohan says with a smile. . ey went for what he wanted, ®cl he got it. I'~ going for what Iwant.•i\;;0ir;~lit:~:"rt That's one similarity betWeen ROhan and his late father, the reggae idol from Jamaica. There are differences; too:+ Bob Marley was spiritual; Rohan is physical. Bob Marley sought to lift peo­ple up; Rohan tries to bring them down. At 5-foot-8 and 200 pounds, Rohan looks small for a guitarist, muchless a linebacker. The third-year sophomore wears No. 2 because double digits won't fit on his jersey. Nonetheless, Marley will be in the starting lineup when the Hurricanes open the season Saturday at Boston College. He made 59 tackles in a reserve role. last year, earning a reputation around the nation for his love of contact. At the least, Marley is the hardest-hitting 200· pound Jamaican linebacker in college football history. , .?~lj!~l11iw1w::; ,".,11  Associated Press "I damn near got fired the next day," he said, laughing. ANAHEIM Robinson's sense of humor and casual John Robinson wants a return to the attitude is a refreshing change for the past in the worst way. players, who felt stifled by Smith's gruff He hopes to begin the trip Sunday demeanor. night when he returns to the Southern "He's brought back the fun aspect of Cal sidelines after a 10-year absence the team," wide receiver Johnnie against No. 20 North Carolina in the Morton said. "Last year, we walked Pigskin Classic. around with our heads down. Now "We've had a tough cycle here for the we're more positive." last couple of years and we feel we must Defensive end Willie McGinest consid­fight to re-establish ourselves as a ered leaving school for the NFL draft national power," Robinson said. "We after last year's 6-5-1 record. He said want to go back to the place where we the atmosphere under Robinson is simi­have been." lar to how an NFL team is run. The Trojans reached the top during "He gives us more responsibility and Photo Courtesy of USC Sports Information Robinson's first stint. They were nation­expects more out of us. He treats us like John Robinson is hoping to make a returnal champions in 1978 and he won 82 men," McGinest said. to his glory days at USC. percent of his games over seven sea­North Carolina coach Mack Brown sons. knows something about rebuilding a The Southern Cal staff knows what we Southern Cal, 18th in the preseason struggling program. The Tar Heels are are doing and we will have to make poll, returns to Anaheim Stadium, the coming off a 9-3 season, capped by a some adjustments during the ball­site of an embarrassing 1992 season­comeback victory over Mississippi State game." ending loss to Fresno State in the in the Peach Bowl. Four years ago, they Between them, Southern Cal and Freedom Bowl. Larry Smith was fired were 1-10. North Carolina have produced the most soon after and Robinson, who stayed in Brown remembers studying a film of 1,000-yard rushers in college history. the area coaching the NFL's Rams, Robinson and Southern Cal's tailbacks returned. in the I-formation and counts Robinson "We have more 1,000-yard rushers Robinson hopes Sunday's result is as a major coaching influence. right now than Southern Cal (21-19)," better than his 1976 debut when "A lot of the things that we've done Brown said, "and probably the reason is Missouri handed the. eighth-ranked are patterned after him," Brown said. Coach took 10 years off to go to the Trojans a 46-25 defeat at home. "We think we are at a disadvantage. pros."  

The Observer accep<s dassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 P..m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dasSifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
BABYSITTER WITH EXPERI-Rooms for Rent. WASHER & DRYER: FULL-SIZE NEED 4 PITT TIX; HAVE NW, ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR THE ENCE, TRANSPORTATION AND Seniors/Graduates. $200·225. KENMORE, WHITE, GOOD CON-MSU, USC, BC TIX. WILL TRADE. NO/NORTHWESTERN WEEK­
NOTICES 
REFERENCES NEEDED PART-Lower level of Bi-level. Laundry DITION. 3-CYCLE WASHER. CALL (201) 487-9000. END. BUFFET BREAKFAST AND 
TIME DAYS AND EVENINGS IN facilities with microwave and fridge. ELECTRIC DRYER. READY TO TAILGATE PARTY. TYPING NO PROFESSOR HOME. PLEASE Family room use. Cable/telephone GO. $200 EACH OR $300 FOR NEED 2 STUDENT BOOKS AND 2 JAMISON INN 287-4082 CALL 232-2201. hook-ups. Quiet. Very-nice. No BOTH. JEFF 288-3878 AFTER 6 U OF M GA'S. CALL DAVE COL-1404 N.IVY ROAD 
smoking, drugs or pets. Close to PM. LECT AFTER 7 PM, 313-981-0238. 219-2n-9682. IF YOU WANT PAPA JOHN'S N.D. 271-0459 J. Gladura PIZZA @ 50% OFF AND YOU'RE WANTED: 2 TICKETS TO ANY TRAVEL FREEl 
WANTED 
LOOKING FOR A PART TIME 1986 RENAULT ALLIANCE, 4-HOME '93 FOOTBALL GAME. CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. JOB, PAPA JOHN'S Pizza is now 6 BEDROOM HOME,. 2 BATHS. DOOR, AUTO, AIR, AM-FM CAS-WILL PAY WELL. CALL PHIL PADRE! SELL RELIABLE SPRING 7-ELEVEN hiring personnel and delivery dri-WALK TO CAMPUS. $135. MO. SETTE, NEW FRONT TIRES, 71 K 714-879-1886 A.M. PDT. BREAK PACKAGES! BEST COM­
CORNEA OF IRONWOOD & EDI-vers. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES. 15-PER PERSON. 2 BEDROOM. MILES. $2000. 287-5235 AFTER 5 MISSIONS/SERVICE! SON NOW TAKING APPLICA-20 hr/wk or 20-full time hr/wk posi-$295. MO. 1 BEDROOM 225. MO. PM. 4 NW tix avail for trade for MSU or SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­TIONS FOR FULL TIME AND lions available. Set schedules also ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM-USC tix. Matt 312-283-0345. n10. PART TIME WORK. ALL SHIFTS available. 5-7 inside & 10-15 driver PUS AND 9 MO. LEASE AVAIL­AVAILABLE. PLEASE APPLY AT positions available. Stop in PAPA ABLE. 272-6306 TICKETS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ We are all so excited to finally have 
' 
THE STORE. JOHN'S @ 54533 Terrace Ln or call271-11n. EOE. 
LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE "Waitress Wanted" Fast, fun envi­& HONEST YOUNG WOMAN TO ronment. Apply: Basix 1150 WORK IN LADIES' BOUTIQUE. Mishawaka Ave. 288-0285 HOURS FLEXIBLE. PREFERABLY DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN 
FOR RENT 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL 
I
273-4888 FOR MORE INFO. 
IMMED. START. 
BED AND BREAKFAST in private BABYSITTER NEEDED. -home. 2 twins, 1 single with sepa-VARIOUS WEEKDAYS. CALL IF rate bath. 1 0 mins. from campus. INTERESTED 255-9094. Reasonable. 234-2626. 
FURNISHED 3-4 BEDROOM HOME, ROSELAND. HAVE ALL FB GAME TIX. WILL 2n-3o97. TRADE FOR USC. MIKE 612-937-2247. 
FOR SALE
I 
Moving Sale-Dorm furniture, microwave, 56227 Oak Road. Take Western Ave. West to Oak North follow the pink signs two blocks East of U.S. 31 By·Pass 
WANTED-GA SEASON TICKETS. CALL MARK 272-7233. 
NEED 2 FSU TICKETS Help! -ND/FSU Marriage (904) 398-6146 
HAVE 4 NW GA'S. 277-5612. 
NEED 2 FSU TICKETS the chance to meet John Schadl. (904) 398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Rita Rita Bobita 
Bananafana fofeeta 
Me my mo meeta
PERSONAL 
Rita! 
Welcome Back!  s  
c  
Hi Jackie, Jill, and Erin!  H  
A  
Welcome to Notre Dame!!!  D  
Hope your freshman Y,ear is a great  L  palooza  
start to a fun and rewarding four (or  Coming soon!  
five) years at NO!!  Stay tuned for details!!  


Back To chool 
Remnant Sale 15°/o to 25°/o off 
our already reduced prices 
277-9711 
•Carpet • Vinyl 
Mon.-Fri -9 -8:30 
•Wood • Ceramic Sat. 9-5:30 
• Area Rugs Sun. 1 -5:30 
Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 

Douglas Road east to Grape, turn right (south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 mile on left at stoplight, turn right for the best deals on carpet. Note: Edison Road is under construction and is closed between I ron wood and Hickory. 
page 22 
-People 
continued from page 32 
he assumed the position was to create a program that enables all Irish sports, not just football, to excel at a national level. 
It has been a long climb to prominence for the long neglected Olympic sports, but many have begun to flourish under Rosenthal's direction. 
The baseball team has reached the NCAA Tournament in each of the last two seasons. The men's tennis team reached the NCAA Finals in 1992 and the women's basketball team made its first NCAA Tourna­ment appearance that same year. 
Hosenthal has also seen his share of controversy. 
A $35 million contract, allow­ing NBC the rights to televise all Notre Dame home football games, wasn't well received by the College Football Association or other college football offi­cials around the nation. 
And his decision to cancel the wrestling program in 1992 is still a dark cloud hanging over his tenure. 
Every move he makes­whether good or bad-is mag­
nified. The media scrutiny can be a hazard or a blessing. It is not a job for someone with a weak stomach. 
Joe O'Brien--Senior Associate Athletic Director: Entering his second year as the senior associate AD, O'Brien is responsible for the overall ad­ministration of the 24-sport athletic department. 
He is Hosenthal's top aide, overseeing nearly all day-to-day operations of the department. 
O'Brien was promoted to his current position in 1992 after 16 years as athletic business manager. He directed bud­getary and purchasing pro­cedures as well as coordinating the travel for the football and men's basketball team for 11 major bowl games and 11 NCAA Tournament appear­ances. 
In 1985 and 1988, O'Brien directed the first and second­round NCAA Tournament games held at Notre Dame. 
Missy Conboy-Associate Athletic Director: Notre Dame's NCAA watchdog. Con­boy is Notre Dame's liason to the NCAA concerning legal compliance and certification. 
Conboy is a member of the executive committee of the National Association of Athletic Compliance Coordinators and this fall she will join the NCAA's Interpretation Committee. 
Last May, she replaced Donna 
-

•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued on-the-spot. 

•lntemationaiiD 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travcd 

Lopiano of Texas on the NCAA's of Notre Dame's represen­Legislative Review Committee. tatives to the Midwestern Colle­In addition to her relations giate Conference. Next year, with the NCAA, Conboy is one she will direct the NCAA Divi­

sion I Men's Tennis Champi­onship to be held at Notre Dame. 
Conboy, a 1982 Notre Dame graduate, returned to South Bend in 1987 after two years as an NCAA enforcement repre­sentative. 
Roger Valdiserri-Associate Athletic Director: Valdiserri is entering his 27th year as a member of the Notre Dame ath­letic department. 
After graduating from Notre 
· Dame in 1954, Valdiserri served as an adminstrative as­sistant to football coach Terry Brennan. He left in 1959, serv­ing as public relations director for Mercedes-Benz of North America and the Kansas City Chiefs, before returning to Notre Dame in 1966 as sports information director. In 1976, he added assistant athletic director to his title and he took his current position in 1983. He currently directs special projects for the athletic depart­ment. Last fall, he served as primary liason for the campus filming of the movie "Rudy," about the life of a former Notre Dame football walk-on to be released this fall 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 
George Kelly-Special Assistant to the Athletic Di­rector: A 25-year veteran of the Notre Dame athletic de­partment, Kelly currently serves as a liason between the football coaching staff and the administrative staff. 
After 30 years as a college assistant coach, he moved to the administrative side in 1986 to coordinate everything from recruting to road trips for the football team. 
Kelly graduated from Notre Dame in 1953 and three years later he became an assistant coach at Marquette. He also spent eight seasons as an assis­tant at Nebraska before re­turning to Notre Dame in 1969. 
Under coaches Ara Parseghian, Dan Devine and Gerry Faust, Kelly coached line­backers, developing a long list of All-Americans, including Bob Olson, Greg collins, Bob Golic, Bob Crable and Mark Zavagnin. 
Brian Boulac-Assistant Athletic Director: Boulac spent 13 years as an assistant football coach before moving to the administrative side in 1983. 
He works with the admissions and financial aid departments 
see PEOPLE I adjoining page 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
BETTER PRICES AND SELECTION THAN ANY CARPETS BEING SOLD ON CAMPUS WHY SPEND MORE ? 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine! 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 page 23
The Observer • SPORTS National Monogram Oub. That requires him to be an on-cam­pus liason and organize nation­al monogram reunions. He also maintains historical data on former award winners. Bill Scholl-Director of Ticketing and Marketing: After three years as promotions manager, Scholl is entering his second year as director of tick­eting and marketing. He coordinates special events, giveaways, clinics and other functions that helped increase the popularity of the Notre Dame Olympic Sports program. Jim Fraleigh-Manager of Sports Marketing: Fraleigh is the athletic department's liason with NBC Sports, coordinates the Notre Dame summer camp programs and assists in the expanding merchandising seg­ments of the department. Dr. Kate Halischak-Director of Academic Services: Dr. Halischak is responsible for monitoring the academic progress of all student-athletes, attending to matters of compli­ance with NCAA rules regard­ing academics. She also serves as a special assistant to Beauchamp. Dr. Halischak assumed her 
Interested in writing? Join The Observer. 

People 
continued from adjoining page 
in their dealings with athletes and coaches. 
Boulac served four years as head softball coach, leading the Irish to four 30 wins seasons and two Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament titles. 
Bubba Cunningham-Assistant Athletic Direc­tor/Business Manager: After five years as ticket manager, the 31-year old Cunningham 
took over his new job last year. 
He is responsible for the day­to-day man­agement of the athletic 

department's Bubba b u s i n e s s Cunninghamaffairs. 
A 1984 Notre Dame graduate, Cunningham spent six months as an accountant in Atlanta before returning to Notre Dame 
as assistant director of the Alumni Association. He joined the athletic depart­
ment in 1988 as ticket manager and became associate business manager in 1989. 
Dr. Tom Kelly-Assistant Athletic Director: Dr. Kelly is the director of Notre Dame's Recreational Sports Program (RecSports). 
As RecSports director, Dr. Kelly oversees club and in­tramural sports and the recre­ational services program. 
He became assistant athletic director in 1983 after 18 years in the athletic department. In 1965, he became an assistant baseball coach under the leg­endary Jake Kline and became assistant director of non-varsity sports soon afterwards. 
Dr. Kelly became head base­ball coach in 1976, compiling an 88-102-1 record over five seasons. His final team went 29-8, the highest victory total for a Notre Dame baseball team at that time. 
Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C.­Athletic Department Chaplain: Fr. Riehle travels with the Irish football team and tends to the spiritual needs of all Notre Dame athletes and coaches. 
A 1949 Notre Dame graduate, 
Riehle also serves as executive 
director of the Notre Dame 
new position in 1990 after six years as an academic advisor and an executive officer of the Gender Studies Program. 
John Heisler-Sports Information Director: Heisler joined the sports information staff in 1978 under Valdiserri 
and assumed the director's position 198 7. 
Over the past 15 years, he has helped edit numerous award-win­ning publica-A 

tions, includ-John He1sler ing 17 judged best in the nation by the College Sports Information Director of America (CoSIDA). 
Heisler has worked primarily with the football and men's basketball teams over the last ten years, producing five top­ranked media guides in football and four more in basketball. 
Rose Pietrzak-Assistant Sports Information Director: The coordinator of publicity and publications for Notre Dame's Olympic sports, Pi­etrzak is entering her fourth year with the sports informa­tion department. 
She primarily works with the men's soccer, women's basket­ball and lacrosse teams and she is a contributing writer to all Notre Dame game programs and media guides. 
.ALL FRESHMEN 
interested in writing for The Observer There will be a meeting at 5:30p.m. in The Observer office (3rd floor LaFortune') on Wednesday, September 1. 
Any questions, call George Dohrmann (Sports) 1-4543 Meredith McCullough (News) 1-5323 Kenya Johnson (Accent) 1-4540 ]en Habrych (Saint Mary's) 284-5334 
AN 
Mike Enright-Assistant Sports Information Director: Enright joined the sports infor­mation staff in 1992 after serv­ing as the assistant director of communications at his alma mater, the University of Conneticut. 
At Notre Dame, Enright works primarily with the foot­ball and men's basketball teams, helping edit the media guides and game programs. 
Mike Danch-JACC General Manager: After 10 years as events manager at the JACC, Danch became general manag­er in1982. 
In addition to his duties at the JACC, Danch also oversees the operations of the Eck Tennis Pavilion, the Frank Eck base­ball stadium and the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Charles "Lefty" Smith­Loftus Center Director: After 19 seasons as the Notre Dame head hockey coach, Smith became director of the Loftus Center when it opened in 1987. 
Smith took the helm of the hockey program in 1968, its first season of varsity com­petition. His teams compiled a 307-320-31 record and former star Dave Poulin is still in the NHL. 
Jerry Schmidt-Strength and 
Conditioning Coordinator: 
Supervisor of the Haggar 
Fitness Complex, Schmidt coor­
dinates the year-round condi­
tioning program of the Irish 
teams. 
He spent 1988 at Oklahoma 
State where he worked with 
Heisman Trophy winner and 
current Detroit Lions star Barry 
Sanders. 
His primary concern at Notre 
Dame is the day-to-day condi­
tioning of the football players. 
Chris Matlock-Equipment 
Manager: Matlock is responsi­
ble for the procurement, main­
tenance, storage and distribu­
tion of all athletic equipment 
for the Irish athletic program. 
Matlock joined the Notre 
Dame athletic department in 
1991 after five years as the 
assistant equipment manager 
for the Indianapolis Colts. 
------. 
-
·1 
~~ ---­--_­----~­-­---­----------­---­---------­RECREATIONAL SPORI'S UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTRAMURALS CLUB SPORTS CHALLENGE U FITNESS RECREATION SERVICES LOCATED IN THE JACC 1ST FLOOR  

-

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 28, 1993 

the increase in ticket requests. team has posted a 304-70 Although nothing is in stone, a (.813) and the women's hoop
Places 
final decision is expected within squad has also accumulated an the next two years. impressive winning percentage 
continued from page 32 
JOYCE ATHLETIC AND CON­in the 11, 418 seat south arena. 
admissions rather than the VECATION CENTER -The It also serves as the site of 
number of fans in the stadium. "JACC" celebrated its 25th year graduation. 
The Student section is located last season, Former executive Racquetball and basketball 
in the northwest section of the vice-president and chairman of courts fill the outer portion of 
stadium with freshman treated the board off athletics Rev. the south building and are open 
to the seats furthest towards Edmund P. Joyce stamped his to students. The Monogram 
the endzone, thanks to their name on the facility after Notre Club as well as the Notre 
last selection slot among the Dame's Board of Trustees voted Dame's trophy collecti_on can be 
student body. to do so in 1987. found in the north arena. 
A plan has been initiated by The two domed facility looks The south dome serves as the 
the hierarchy in the university's odd, but has been a pleasant hockey rink with a capacity of 
athletic department to expand site to Notre Dame basketball over 4,000. It also has a weight 
the stadium to accommodate over the years. The men's room open to students and an
• 
Photo Courtesy of Sports Information 
The Joyce ACC is home to a number of Notre Dame sports. 


ADD WARMTH, OLOR & SOFTNESS TO ANY DRAB ROOM 
10°/o Discount or Free Pad with Student ID 
Mon-Fri 9 -8, Sat 1 0 -5, Sun noon -5 
-· 
Follow Douglas Road to:
~E~~~~BA 
50760 u.s. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637
~~~il6 
OCVSA 1tn REPRODUCTION Of ANY PART o• THIS AD lS PROHIIITEO 
(219) 272-4500 
WlrHOUF WIIFTEI'ICONHNT Of CAIIrPHlAN'OUS-4 
indoor track which is often transformed into volleyball and basketball courts. 
LOFTUS SPORTS COMPLEX ­This facility is arguably the most impressive of the University's newest athletic facilities. Within the large building is a weight room, a full-size football field, a track, and some conference and classrooms. 
The 8,000-square foot weight room goes by the name Haggar Fitness Complex and is only open to varsity athletes. If you are one of the many people aspiring to a monogram, then the 40,000 pounds of free weights and 37 exercise machines are available for your use. 
Meyo Field is the full-size Astro Turf football field that sees many Irish teams other than football practicing on it, including club and interhall teams. Its availability is deter­mined by the schedules of the varsity sports, however. 
The Meyo Track, a one-fifth mile track surrounding the field, is also available for stu­dent and faculty use, but don't try to use when the football team is practicing. The six-lane Mondo track is the largest indoor track at the collegiate level and attracts some of the nation's best talent during the indoor track season. 
The 6.3-million dollar build­ing is also equipped with four air-conditioned conference rooms and a 154-seat auditori­um with the audio-visual capa­bility for academic lectures. Don't count on the long walk, however, since the DeBartolo classroom building was opened last year and there is no longer a need to put classes in Loftus. 
THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL ­This building on the end of South Quad offers the majority of the fitness opportunities for students and faculty. It also houses many of the freshman 
see PLACES I adjoining page 
• 
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Bestprices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


aC&B. I 'Q.tiCO
Dna 
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  ( 1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Moll)  
291-9200  277-8121  

Saturday, August 28, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
houses six laykold courts, offices, locker rooms, and an upstairs spectator viewing area. In 1988, the United States -Tennis Association gave the Eck Pavilion its award for architec­tural design. The facility will also play host to the NC~A championships during the 
spring of 1994. 
This celebrated facility is not 
limited to the tennis teams only. 
Students and faculty are wel­
come to use the Eck during cer­
tain hours. 
IVY FIELD -The home of the 
Irish softball team is located 
across the street from the Eck 
Pavilion. This past spring sever­
al improvements were made to 
the facility, including dugouts 
and outfield fencing. 
ALUMNI FIELD -Currently 
being renovated, Alumni field 
serves as the home of the Notre 
Dame men's soccer team. The 
team started playing on the 
field last season. 
The main work being done to 
the facility located on the 
southeast corner of campus 
behind Cartier Field is the addi­
tion of permanent bleachers. 
ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER­
This six-year old facility located in between the domes on the far side of the JACC is the home of both the men's and women's swim teams. 
The 45,000-sq.-ft. facility con­tains a 50-meter Olympic pool, spectator seating for 400, two one-meter diving boards, two three-meter diving boards, locker rooms for varsity squads, general use, and coaches, and offices. 
Rolfs is available for general student use subject to practice and meet schedules of the var­sity teams. 
MOOSE KRAUSE STADIUM ­The 5,000 capacity facility located behind the JACC watch­es over the Monogram Track and the Cartier Field. 
The nine-lane track was resurfaced in 1986 with a Mondo surface, the fastest in the world. It is also equipped for the steeple chase and field events, thus serving as the home of the Irish track squads. It is usually open for student and faculty use. 
BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE -This 18 hole gem nestled on the southwest corner of campus poses an interesting combination of challenges for golfers. 
From its rolling hills, rushing streams, vacuous sand traps, and deep water hazards-well at least undulating greens and tight fairways--the course totals to a par-71. Students can golf (weather permitting) for $5.50 on weekdays and $6.00 on weekends. 
OUTDOOR BASKETBALL COURTS -When the sun shines upon Notre Dame, the courts behind Lyons, behind the Bookstore, and Stepan courts fill up with part-time hoopsters. If you're looking for a game--and maybe a fight-these are the places to be. 
The competition takes on a different flavor here during the legendary Bookstore Basketball Tournament. No tournament sports a more diversified field of talent and more entertaining pool of names than this, the largest five on five tournament in the world. 
STEPAN FIELDS -Marking the northeast corner of campus, these large plots of land serve as playing fields for many of Notre Dame's interhall sports. 
In the fall they are used for football and soccer as the goal­posts suggest. In the spring they become horne to Notre Dame's rugby club. During all seasons they are a great place to organize a football game or just play catch. 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILI­TY-The Home of the Belles, the Angela Athletic Facility on the Saint Mary's campus offers a place to work out for students and athletes alike. 
Built in 1977, the tri-level fiberglass and steel structure on the North end ·of campus houses three interchangeable courts for tennis, basketball and volleyball. Racquetball courts, Nautilus, air-dyne and bio-dyne bikes and free wights are also available for use by all students. 
Places 
continued from adjoining page 
physical education classes. 
The facilities included in "the Rock", as students call it, include a swimming pool, bas­ketball courts, racquetball courts, a weight room, and dance and aerobic facilities. 
The P. E. classes that are taught within the Rock include racquetball, weightlifting, CPR and First Aid training, and social dance. Don't let the name of the last one scare you. It is one of the more popular classes and a great way to meet the members of the opposite sex. 
FRANK ECK STADIUM ­Construction of this baseball stadium located on the south­east corner of campus is wrap­ping up. The stadium is not slated to open until the fall of 1994, however. 
The facility includes a cov­ered hitting cage, locker rooms for both the home and visiting teams, and a lighted playing field. Jake Kline Field named after the legendary Irish coach is surrounded by the 1,500 per­manent seats of the stadium and 1,500 temporary ones. 
ECK PAVILION -Located next to the Loftus center, this indoor tennis facility is another of Notre Dame's impressive new athletic facilities. 
Dedicated in 1987, the Eck 


FULL SERVICE RESTAURANT Open 24 Hours -7 Days a Week Friendly, casual dining with daily specials Breakfast served 24 Hours 

Nick's 
Just ·minutes ~atio from campus/ 
1710 N. Ironwood Dr. 277..7400 
with this coupon 
• Breakfast • • Lunch • Dinner • 
1-710 N. Ironwood 217-1400 Expires 9/15/93 

Happy 21st Birthday 
Jasiu 
Have agreat Senior Yea at Notre Dame! 
Love, Mom, Dad &Babcia 

Flower Delivery 7 Days P@'SY (I Pptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North 
1-800-328-0206
South Bend, IN 46637 

The Home For All Your Cycling Needs 

F:m··· 
·.Pickup & Delivery on Campusfot Bike Purchase & Repair 
Try our authentic Szechuan Style Noodles, Mandarin Style Fried Rice and Egg Rolls ... 
They're the Best in Town 
Lunch & Dinner starting at $325 All lunch specials served with a fresh egg roll Dine In or Carry Out Hours: 1809 SR 23 at Tues-Sat 11:30 a.m.-10 p.m. Campus Shoppes Sun noon -9 p.m. Mon Closed
South of Coach's 271-0125 
-. 
.•.. 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 28, I993 
Men's soccer frosh deal with college adjustments 
By BRIAN KUBICKI Assistant Sports Editor 
As ;nost freshmen were still in the midst the usual week ofT work before school, the fresh­men members 
of the men's soccer team were working harder than they ever had before. 
"College is a 

lot more ~ physical with Tony Capasso the three-a­days than anything you'd ever do in high school," explained team captain Mike Palmer. 
But the practices which hap­pened at 10:30 in the morning, three in the afternoon and fi­
·-nally again at 8:30 at night, are much more than just physically tough. Palmer noted that there is a greater mental strain in college than in high school. "The stakes are a lot higher," he said. 
Head coach Mike Berticelli thinks the freshman have done 
Football 
continued from page 32 talked of how players thought he was soft because he was from California, and he had to prove that he deserved to be on the same field with them. "They test you," he said. In a few days the freshman will get their first taste of col­lege classes. Some of the new­comers arrived at Notre Dame early for summer classes, to help lighten their load, but for the majority a full slate of classes loom. "It takes time just like any student to get adjusted to col­lege," added Taliaferro. 
Look for Football 1993 
A weekly special section covering the Irish football team 
Coming Sept. 3 
.­
Maple Lane Barber_ Shop 
servmg the Notre Dame community for over 3 2 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin's) 
272~6722 
liangle Drafting Supply 
Iv~Q I (219) 259-2459 • 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F BAM-5:30PM SAT 9AM-NOON 
well during the transition, how­ever. "I am very pleased with the freshman class," he said. "With their work ethic and atti­tude as a group, I expect them to make a tremendous contri­bution." 
The heightened practice load, however, is not the last of ad­justments the freshmen are making. There are differences within the game itself. 
Tony Capasso, a freshman midfielder, claims that the biggest difference between the high school game and the col­lege game is the "sharpness of the game and the speed at which players play." 
Berticelli agreed saying that the adjustment to the speed of the game and the speed with which one must make decisions is the most difficult one for freshmen. "There is less time and space to do the things they did in high school. There is less space to make mistakes," he explained. 
Freshman defenseman Brian Engesser, however, said that learning a new system was the hardest part of the transition. "You have to determine what the college game wants from you" 
Just as they are getting used to all these difficult changes on the field, the freshmen experi­ence probably the most difficult of them all. Classes begin for them, as they do for all stu­dents, next Tuesday, and they must work at the hardest part of being a student­athlete--maintaining the hyphen in that phrase. 
"As a freshman you feel you need to go to all your classes, study in between them, go to practice, and study again at night," Palmer noted. "You rest a lot less and work a lot more." 
Capasso anticipates that if school isn't going well, then soccer won't be going well ei­ther. Engesser figures he will just have to budget his time and get on a schedule. 
If their current transition into college athletes holds any indi­cation of what their transition to college students will be like, then the freshmen will find plenty of help from the upper­classmen. 
'"One of the assets of this team is the unity." Capasso said. "I feel like I've known them for years." 
Classmate Peter Gansler, a defensemen, agreed, saying that the upperclassmen have made the freshmen "feel at home." 
Palmer said that previously the upperclassmen were not as concerned with the freshmen. The difference between this year and previous years is a distinct one, and is evident within the team's coach. 
"Coach Berticelli is upbeat. There is a whole new feeling and positive attitude on the team that runs from the coach­ing staff to the players," the captain explained and does not shy away from admitting that part of this is due to the fresh­men. "They fit in great. Their personality is hard working." 
The transition is not complete and tonight's preseason game against second-ranked Indiana in Indianapolis will bear that 
headache-busting HP48G 

The new 
3-D graphing grade-making easy-learning fast-answering budget-pleasing 

photo courtesy of Sports Information Coach Mike Berticelli (right) talks 
with Women's Coach Chris 
Petrucelli. 
harsh reality for the freshmen. "This game will give us a chance to look at a lot of play­ers. I think I.U. is the fastest team in the nation. It will be a great test," Berticelli said. 
You can be sure it will not be the last test for the freshmen and their new team. 
Check it out The new HP 48G graphic calcula­tor gives you a whole lot more for a whole lot less than you think. 
Get more 
·Push a button, choose from the pull-down menu, and fill in the blanks. Entering data is that easy. 
·View 3-D graphs. ·Access over 300 built-in equations. ·Perform algebra and calculus 
operations on equations before entering values. ·Enter and see equations like they appear on paper. 
·Work with different units of measure. The HP 48G will convert them for you. For example, enter inches, centimeters, yards, and feet, together in one equation ­it'll convert them. 
Get more ... for less ·Compare prices -the HP 48G fits your budget. 
Special introductory offer* When you buy an HP 48G or HP 48GX, you can get free software (plus games!) and a free cable for connecting to your desktop PC. Write programs for the HP 48 using your PC keyboard, or store HP 48 files and programs on your desktop PC. 
Pick up a coupon at your college bookstore. 
Ff/0'1 HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
*Offpr good while supplips last on purchas!'S made from August I, 19!J:J through October 31, 19!J:J. See coupon for tenns and conditions. ©HPWIPtt-Packard Company. PG 123068 
~--~~--~----...----------~ 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS -page 27 

The Observer/Jake Peters Jennifer Renola is one of five freshmen looking to make a smooth transition. 
Talented group learning tricks ofcollege soccer 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Watching Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli work with his team is like watching a kindergarten teacher. Everything must be explained clearly, and usually includes a laugh. 
Petrucelli stands in the mid­dle of the field barking instruc­tions to a pair of freshmen, teaching which foot to send a pass, and how to take a ball from a fellow teammate. 
More often than not the tal­ented freshmen do it correctly, 

RESERVED FOOTBALL PARKING 
Prepaid reserved parking 

on asphalt lot, one block 
from the N.D. Stadium 
For the season or individual games 
"l~n .-u~~: LOGAN Center 289-4831 Mon.-Fri., 8:30-2:30 
LOGAN is the principal area provider of programs and s..-vices in St. Joseph County for children and adults with developmental disabilities. 
but sometimes they fumble with the ball or send an errant pass, and Petrucelli sets them straight, and then laughs with them. 
"This is a pretty good group. Pretty advanced," said the Notre Dame coach. "I have not had to do as much. But you still have to show them some things." 
Petrucelli is no stranger to working with freshmen. His squad from a year ago, in­cluded five freshmen starters. Even more youth was added when five recruits signed with the Irish, a group Notre Dame's coach calls, "the best group we have ever brought in." 
Jennifer Renola is one of the talented newcomers eyed by Petrucelli, and from an interesting angle. When scout­ing the freshman goalkeeper in practice, he often stands behind her, inside the goal, offering advice from her back. 
But becoming familiar with Petrucelli's coaching style is not the hardest task facing the freshmen. 
"It hasn't been that hard to adjust to him because although he will get on you, he is not to­tally serious all the time, said Renola, "and you know that what he is saying can only help you." 
The on field adjustment is coupled with the knowledge that classes will soon begin and their workload will increase by two fold. 
"I am worried about my classes and whether I will have time to do everything," said Renola. "But I know that I have my teammates to help me pre­pare, and also I think that in a way soccer will help me get my mind off of school." 
Joining Renola in the adjust­ment are Cindy Daws, Kate 

R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational ~.-.~ effect. Find out today if you qualify. 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

Fisher, Stacia Masters, and Camille Clinton. 
Daws is feeling a little more pressure to adjust to the college game quickly due to the high acclaim that accompanyed her when she joined the Irish. Con­sidered by many to be the best high school player, Daws must 
--.. 
live up to high expectations when her fellow teammates are simply trying to crack the start­ing lineup. 
But it appears she has things well in hand. 
"There is really no question about Cindy," says Renola. "She is as good as everyone said." 

Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from m70 
1-Bedrooms from 285 
2-Bedrooms from 5 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Adivities with Free Aerobics 
~ 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 
!+CLEVELAND 
DOUOLAB
I+~ L 
w
.._
~H~O~
VILUGE 
"
1-EDIOON~· ~ 
!.!
" 
1­
.i McKINLEY 
JEFFERSON 
·..·· 
I ~· ~. 
-
~ 
..· 
-~ 
~~--~~~~--~----~----------------------­
page 28 
Freshmen hope to fit in on and off the court 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Associate Spores Editor 
On Wednesday night, most Notre Dame freshmen will have finished their second day of classes and might be at the Bookstore trying to find their books. Four of those freshmen will be in Valparaiso, Ind. for the first volleyball game of the year. 
Jenny Birkner, Jen Briggs, Kristjna Ervin and Laura Reckmeyer will represent the class of 1997 in the match. 
# Fellow freshman Jennifer Rouse is out indefinitely to recuperate her right shoulder. 
,. The freshmen have made the transition into the Irish pro­gram in the first weeks of prac­tice. The team along with this year's crop of freshmen recruits have been on campus and practicing since early August. According to Irish coach Debbie Brown, the freshmen are adjusting on the court and to life at Notre Dame as well. "They fit in very well with the team," said Brown. "I like them all a lot. I think they are doing some good things on the court, but sometimes they do things which are exceptional." In the active group, Brown has two outside hitter/blockers and two middle blockers. 
Rouse is also a middle blocker who will contribute when she is healthy. 
Providing· power from the outside are Birkner, a 5-foot-11 high school standout from Geneva, Illinois who played on a AAU national champion club team, and Briggs. a 6-footer from Kalamazoo, Michigan, who helped her high school team to the state championship as a freshman and a sopho­more. 
Ervin and Reckmeyer will help in the middle. Ervin is the shortest of the group at 5-foot­10, but the Maynard, Minnesota native will make opponents cringe with her hitting along with Reckmeyer, 6-foot, of Peoria, Arizona at the net. 
The freshman have been 
quick learners and are rapidly 
taking in Brown's coaching. 
"They have responded real 
well to the coaching and they 
have worked hard at learning 
the adjustments we're making," 
said Brown. 
Brown makes it sound easier 
than it actually is. To the fresh­
men, the experience of playing 
collegiate level volleyball has 
been challenging. 
"It's harder that I expected. 
Everyone is so good," said 
Briggs. "I'm tired of two-a­
days. I've done them before but 
Freshman Jennifer Birkner has impressed coaches and teammates. 
never for this many weeks at a team. It's really draining. There's so much to learn." 
Reckmeyer feels the same way. 
"It's a lot different from the Junior Olympic level and the high school level," said Reckmeyer. "It's a lot more dif­ficult. The level of play is much higher and the coachees expect more. The competitiveness is much higher." 
LOOKING FOR A FUN WAY TO GET IN SHAPE? 
JUST AEROBICS IS THE PLACE! Just Aerobics 
·.­

offers you: 
l. Stainnaster. exercise bikes & treadmills 
2. 
Everllex suspended woOd· aerobtc floor 

3. 
Showers & locker facilittes 

4. 
Boutique with fitness apparel. 

5. 
No membership fee-walk-ins welcome 

6. 
Co-ed aerobic classes 7 days a week 

7. 
Conveniently located near campus 


Just Aerobics is the aerobic fitness centerfocused on the future! 
~­
Just Aerobics, Inc. 
Aerobic Fitness Center Campus Shoppes Plaza (next to Werntz Hardware) 277-8092 
----~-~--· 

Read The Observer for complete coverage of next Saturday's action against Northwestern as well as of all Irish football games. 
Go Irish! 
Town & Country Shopping Center 2344 Miracle Lane Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Twin -B position Frame & Mattress. (!:!J@£ (chair • lounge • bed) 
* Save.Space *Save Money
5% DISCOUnt withStudenti.D. ~~v ___________[_wA~I~~~~~~~----------'
1 
L---------' 

Where thevetybest from land ana sea come togethet: 
Welcome to the Wharf where you'll find the freshest seafood, finest beef and most tender chicken. The Wharf's fabulous Sunday Brunch and our famous salad buffet have a reputation that's second to none! And our view of the roaring St. Joe River is the most romantic in town! For reservations call234-4477. 

300 East Colfax at the River 
Banquet Space Available
234-4477 
Saturday, August 28, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Holtz fine after hospital visit 
SMC coaches optimistic
·.····A Lacrosse meeting will be 
held Friday. Sept. 3rd inLoftus for all returning members of the lacrosse team and those interested in trying out. Any Questions call Kevin Corrigan .. 
The Hockey team will hold a initial information meeting Wed. Sept 1 for any student interested in trying out for the hockey team. 41, ,,.;. "" 
Notre Dame w Sports Information is lootgng for vol­unteer help for tfte 1993-94 academic year. Our office han­dles statistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. Call Rose at 631-7516 for more information 
Observer Staff Report 
Lou Holtz was given a clean bill of health by doctors on Monday night after driving himself to the 
hospital after complaining of heart pains. 
Holtz felt chest pains around 2 am while lying in bed and 

decided to Lou Holtz have it checked out. A history of heart problems exists in his 

Welcome Back ND 
•Now 
over 5,000 CD's in stock 

•Persona/listening 
stations 

•Computerized 
look-up system 

•Up 
to $5 cash for your CDs 

•Cash, 
check, Visa, Mastercharge, Discover 


4219 Grape Road 
Hours: Mon -Sat 1 0 -9 Sun 12-6 
family, as his father and two uncles suffered heart attacks. 
Once at the hospital, doctors checked out Holtz for 2-3 hours, testing his heart on a treadmill and other exercises. The results were positive as the doctors could find nothing which would indicate a heart problem. 
They did note that his choles­terol level was pretty low. 
"He has a very hard schedule, especially during football sea­son," said Sports Information Director John Heisler. "And the history of heart problems in his family made him feel that he needed to get it checked out. But the prognosis was that he didn't have anything wrong." 
Holtz's visit to the hospital slipped past the local media, and only when he mentioned it on WNDU Sportstalk did the public become aware of the visit. 
~ount'!l !Jlarvester Presents ~~"Jil Collection ofMemories" 
IRISH.VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame Buildings 
The VIllage Is GrowingI 



La1ortunt Student Center Lower Leve{ 

We are Pleased to Announce Additions to Our Collection of Notre Dame Buildings: 
Rockne Memorial, Fisher Hall, Farley Hall, Breen,Phillips Hall, Sorin Hall 

{219)631-6714 
Ofjicidfy Licensed Product ofrrTU 'University of'J{ptre 'Damt 
after first look at freshmen 
By BETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
With the help of some incom­ing athletes, both the volleyball team and the soccer team at Saint Mary's are expecting strong seasons this fall. 
"I am extremely excited about the season." said volley­ball coach Julie Schroeder­Biek. "What we've lost in indi­vidual excellence we have gained in strength." 
Freshman Megan Dowd from San Diego, CA is extremely ex­cited about her college career as both a student and a volley­ball player. After playing for four years in high school under a strict coach, Dowd has high expectations for the Belles vol-
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cockt11il Lounge 
71.uthentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisili~ 

Lunches starting at .....$3,95 
Voted_Be:oot
Dinners starting· at .....$5.95 
Oriental Restm1rant'
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by '_,-:
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
Michiana No\v /
(next wRani:lall's Inn) 
'. 
--------------------~~~~--~ 
leyball team. 
"I hope that I will be able to balance my studies with my demanding volleyball sched­ule." said Dowd. 
Transfer student Erica Freitag from South Bend, lA is also excited about the season to come. Freitag played for Anderson University last year, but wanted to be near home and concentrate on her nursing major. 
" 
Julie is really experienced." stated Freitag .."There are a lot of returners so it should be a good season." 
The Belles' soccer team will also have some new additions with at least eight incoming 
..,
freshmen with strong back­grounds in both high school soccer and traveling teams. 
"I am really pleased." said coach Tom Van Meter. "We have great post-season poten­tial." 
Freshman Lisa Nichols, from South Bend, is extremely ex­cited about the upcoming sea­son. 
"Saint Mary's was my top choice for soccer because I have played for coach Van Meter before and I like his coaching style." 


GIA/VT
T/w ~RiG/Jt choler! 
In the city... 
on the road... 
Or in the mountains... 

Giant takes your cycling seriously. 
Giant bicycles are designed. engineered and crafted to be your precisely right choice. They're easy to ride. easy to enjoy and easy to afford...Let us help you choose the one that fits your cycling needs.
ki
D R I G H y• s I 
r----------------------,r----------------------,
!FREE $3995• FREE $995 
• u Lock Guarantee 
l wuh purchase of bike over Lock and Cohle 
I $300 
lone coupon per visit. with purchase of 
lNot valid with other pro-bike under $300 
:motions. 
•expires 9/30/93 expires 9/30/93 
L----------------------~L---------------------­
__....... 
-

Saturday, August 28, 1993
• . : I The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT 
L---.-, -illllllllll -• .......,1 11 ::EN
oN PIZZAS aod SUBS
! 
• Q i[ m NOTRE DAME 271-0300 SAINT MARY'S 289-0033 
#1) What's Bigger than BIGFOOT? 
#2) What's over 2 Feet Long? 
#3) What has 30 Flavor-Filled 
Slices? 
#4) What's the ... 
BEST SPEClACUl.IR SliCES Orderw1thyour
VALUE 
[J::C]~~ favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 30 1nches...That's almost ayard of pizza.
ON CHEESE DOMINATOR 
$8.95 
•
CAMPUS? 
EXTRA TOPPINGS...$1.00 EACH 

c'iJI3 
! ZESTY ITALIAN (Lettuce-Onions-Tomatoes) HAM & CHEESE (Lettuce-Onions-Tomatoes) TURKEY BREAST (Lettuce-Onions-Tomatoes) 1l~~ PHILL Y STEAK (Lettuce-Onions) ~~so~ 
EE ADD ONS: Green Peppers ·MushroomsFR'.....!..:.___.....,._.. Mayo • Mustard • Oil & Vinegar
-
6" ... $3.49 FOOT LONG ... $5.49 
CHIPS ... $ .60 or DIET COKE ... $ .65 / can ... $1.95/2-Liter (MINIMUM ORDER FOR DELIVERY ... $6.00) 

5.95 t 2-Toppings 6.95
-

Aluminum rec.vcUni kits are available upon request to all students &facu/Jy. Return bag full of cans for a FREE 2-liler with any piu.JJ purchase. New recycling bag will be given out at no charge. 
EXTRAS 
TWISTY BREAD & SAUCE .... 1.95 Additional Toppings Available -$1.00 each Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce 
! 
Available Upon Request 
GET A 2nd PIZZA (SAME SIZE) FOR ONLY$4.00 MORE!!!!! 
GARDEN SALAD & DRESSING .... 1.95 
Veggie 7.95 8.95 
COKE or DIET COKE .....65/ can BLACit OLIVES Meatzza 7.95 8.95 
1.95/2-liter
Bacon Cheeseburger 7.95 8.95
'"IW/H CHEDDAR
11' •• CHEESE 
Hawaiian 6.95 8.95 Void at por'lcipolilg sloreo mly. Not vald wltll any-olfw. Pllcos may wry.BOT PEPPERS Deluxe 7.95 7.95 Custoow poyo sdeo tax whole ~cable 
Delivery o110o tlrlilod to enue oote ddvilg __..... BACON OIJ" dllvon cony lesslhon S20.00 Our
PARTY PACK* 11.99 13.95 
drt.l.,. II"O not penoized Ill" tote del-~ 
PINEAPPLE •
~-----' *PARTY PACKincludcs....2 PIZZAS (!-Topping)+ 11WISTY BREADW/SAUCE + I COKE or DIET COKE (2-Liter) ......__________, ~~~=Rzz•Corp..n~ 
NOTRE DAME 271-0300 SAINT MARY'S 289-0033 
I 
-. . -. --........................... "-.....-......-.... -...... -...--···--·--......... ----...... --· .. -............. -.. --...
~ . 

-------------------..~~ 

Saturday, August 28, 1993 
SPELUNKER 
YoUR MIND IS fl~lfD Wml
•[eo~ru~l3W1f@f 
f'IUMt:ROUS QUfSTioNS. W ll.L WEL.CDM£ 1D THE MV DAUU!HT6R. WINO-UP IN FRESHMAN ISSUE A 5LEAZ..'/ 5ENtOR· MAN'S 
RooM 7 WILL M'/ SON SKIP
q: S!'ELUNKER. 
ClASSES AND PARI'! 6XCEE'SS/VEL'I? 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
its, l 'i3£Ut.~£ I~ \\-I.E II'J,PQR\f>.I{C"C Of GCPC> 
G~MI~G-. 
\ 


ACROSS 36 Suffix with 66 Out of the wind Nippon &7 Biblical
1 Scrap 37 Kimono sash ointment 
6 C.P.A., e.g. 
68 Muse for Pin dar 10 Commanded 38 Eaten away 69 Libidinous
39 Middle of the 
14 "Let Me Go, 
quip 70 Salver 44 Hubs 71 Novices 15 Type of salmon 
45 Em followers
16"-forAII 
DOWN
46 Coral or Red 
Seasons" 
47 Upright 
chase 48 Penny actor 18 As neat as-49 "Aul~ Lang 2 Hit 212° 19 Twerp's cousin 3 Track shape 20 Start of a quip 50 Lyric poem 4 Deliver, as a 
23 A vowel for 52 Makeshift bed song Zeno 54 End of the quip 5 Characteristic 24 Duffer's delight 63 Central or Hyde 
11 Goddess of the 1 "M*A*S*H" 
6--ofworms 
25 Lionized actor? 7 Handle 
64-Bator, 
problems
28 Pasture sounds Mongolia a Fledglings' 
31 Big blows 65 Scout unit 
sounds 9 Kingdom in SW 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Pacific Ocean 10 Nemests 11 Iowa college 
town 32 Fortify
12 Pub missile 33Crummy
13 Means justifiers? 34German industrial city 
21 Very rich man 22 Prods 35 Bristles 
25Sierra--40 Kids' rm. 26 --as the eye 
41 Mary or John 
can see 
Jacob 27 Lift with effort 
42 Hostelry
29 First name in honesty 43 Small auk 
30--Semple 48 Wine locale, McPherson often 
Motu and Dad, 
Now that we have your sons and daughters, how are you going to keep track of thetn? 
•scri e to e Observer! 
Keep up with the latest happenings from under the Dome. 
Name Mail to: Get the news that affects your Address The Observer Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student P.O. Box Q for $30 a semester or $50 a year. City State Zip Notre Dame, IN 46556 
TODAY 
JAY HOSLER 
1-l£'1, R£LA~! WHEN THosE 
QUE.STIONS POP INTO '{OUR 
Hf.A-D .Jv5T nt1 N1<. ABoUT 
HOW you• liE RAISED 
Ym.JRC.Hit..-D .1\ND ANSWfR llliS SIMPLE GUE'S1loN ... 
BILL WATTERSON 

49 Like bright nights 51 Intimidate 53 Singing group Griffith 54 Semiprecious 60 What a homer stone evokes 55 Lung sound 61 Dorothy's dog 56 Keene's Nancy 62 Poetry of a people 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
--------------------------------~ 
page 31 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"And so you just threw everything together? ... Mathews, a posse is something you have to organize." 
OF INTEREST 
pillce Monday for . and freshmen. Freshmen should go to the se ofJlwJ.A.C•.C. betwe~n 8:30a.m. and2p.m. stude~ts can e~roll in. the''north doJile of the J.A.C.C. :30(l,;1ll• and 3;'15 p.m; Fall semester classes begin 
Tuesday at 8 a.tii.:. •f• 

FRESHMEN 
Interested in writing, design, illustrations, graphics, advertising, 
or photography? . OIN THE OBSERVER STAFF 
Contact: David Kinney Editor-in-Chiefat 631-4542 or Kevin Hardman Managing Editor at 631-4541 
-
-
..~................r---------------~----~ 
SPORTS 
page 32 Saturday, August 28, 1993 
THE JOCK STRIP 
It's never only a game at Notre Dame 
F
ootball is a game. Soccer is a game. Swimming, well, I think is a game. But at Notre Dame nothing dealing with athletics is ever a game. That is a lesson soon 
George
to be learned by 
Dohrmann
incoming freshmen. It may come as a shock Sporrs Ediror to some, but to others, probably alumni children, it will not. The realization should come no later than the Northwestern game, when every Winnebago in the free-tailgating world pulls into the football parking lot four days before kickoff time. 
Other freshman will find out sooner, possibly when they meet a fellow Domer who enlightens them on the importance of sport. 
I met a girl from Badin hall this sum­mer, who after introducing herself, men­tioned to me that she played interhall football for Badin and, "there was no way that Badin is losing to Walsh this year." She continued for some time about those "?/!@#$!" Walsh girls and how they played dirty. 
Dad always wanted me to meet some sweet Notre Dame girl. I don't think he had that one in mind. 
When covering men's interhall football my freshman year, I did three stories on alleged eligibility violations.In a few dorms, off-campus players thought (or maybe not) that they could play for their dorm while enjoying the luxuries of a dormless life. The RecSports office begged to differ. The result: Carroll Hall was replaced by Zahm in the interhall finals. 

others are not so familiar. on campus: Here's a brief introduction: NOTRE DAME STADIUM ­Dick Rosenthal-Athletic The house that Rockne built 
The varsity sports reflect the same atti­tude. At what other fine Catholic institu­tion would an ex-banker be athletic director? Money is the central issue more often than not. 
Irish football is big business. If we fail to carry a high ranking, NBC loses in the ratings. If Lou Holtz's squad fails to win seven games, there will be no bowl game for the Irish, costing the University unthinkable amounts of cash. 
Club sports are not exempt from this virus. Last season a "Crewtroversy" sur­faced, as dissension arose among the members of the crew team. Accusations flew from both sides, and at the cost o members to the club. Even rowing a boat is not so simple anymore. 
Everyone has their own alternative motive. Football needs to win for mone­tary reasons, the coaches of Olympic sports like soccer need to win to keep their job and lure recruits, and people like that sweetheart from Badin need to 
-
win, "So I can rub that stupid "?/!@#$!" Walsh quarterback's face in it all year." 
The saying goes, God, Country, Notre Dame. But when pertaining to athletics it is, Win, Win, (or it's not) Notre Dame. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Newcomers like Camille 
-
Clinton learn to deal with the college game and college living. 
see page 27 
Freshman football players learn to adjust 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz keeps close tabs on his freshman. 
Incoming players must wear black stick­ers across their helmet to announce to all that they are the new kids on the block. They are made unavailable to the press until after the opening game. But those are only the smallest of things which the new members of the Notre Dame football team must endure. 
They must prove their worth to their teammates, deal with an arduous football regiment, and in the meantime prepare themselves for a class load unlike any they have seen. 
It begins with the football load. At sun­rise with team meetings, followed by the day's first practice. After practice the first team meetings take place, which include 111m sessions of the first practice. 
"It was weird at first because if you made a mistake in practice the coaches had it right their on film," said junior offensive lineman Mark Zataveski about his freshman experience. "Games I had been used to, but not films of practice." 
A few hours for lunch is all the team is allowed, before a return to practice, fol­lowed by weight training, and more meet­ings and film sessions. 
"There is absolutly no time for any­thing," said defensive end John 
·~ Taliaferro. "I still have all my stuff sitting in the hall of dorm because I haven't had time to move in. For the freshman it is even worse, because this is all a new experience for them." 
,. Each freshman must also prove to his :....; "' ...... n~·--·~:~.. ...,_ teammates that he is worth a scholarship. The Observer/Jake Peters Former Notre Dame player Arnold Ale Freshman quarterback Ron Powlus takes a break during fall drills. Powlus and his fellow ---------------­
freshmen have been adjusting to college life. see FOOTBALL I page 26 
A guide to ND/SMC athletics 
A freshman's guide to the people and places that comprise Notre Dame/Saint Mary's athletics 
Their backgrounds 

Even if you're not a are varied, but they varsity athlete there share at least one are still a number of common bond. They places where you can work together in the go to workout. If you fishbowl that is the are lucky enough to Notre Dame athletic play a varsity sport, department. Notre Dame's facili­
They control every­ties are considered thing from television some of the best in contracts to interhall the country. football. Some of the A look at the vari­names are familiar, Dick Rosenthal Tom Kelly ous athletic facilities 

College athletics is is unquestionably home becoming big business and sweet home for the Irish. Notre Dame kept up with the They have compiled a 234­trend in 1987 when they 67-5 (.773) record within its hired a banker to run the ath­confines over the past 63 letic department. seasons, 24 of which con­Rosenthal, a 1954 Notre tained unbeaten home 
Dame graduate and former records. 
basketball All-American, Since 1966 all but one 
became athletic director after game was a sellout, that 
a very successful 25-year being a 1973 game versus 
banking career. It is a rela­Air Force played on 
tionship that has been rocky Thanksgiving Day. The total 
at times and rosy at times. capacity of the stadium is 59, One of his main goals when 075, a figure based on paid
Photos Courtesy of Sports Information 
see PEOPLE I page 23 Loftus Sports Complex is the jewel of Notre Dame athletic facilities. see PLACES I page 24 
Inside SPORTS 
MEN'S SOCCER SAINT MARY"S 
New faces like Brian Tom Van Meter and other Engesser are fitting in SMC coaches get acquainted nicely.
with new players. 
see page 29 
see page 26 



