
VOL. XXV. NO. 132 
Task force examines SYRs 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 

Students view all-hall semi­formals (SYRs) as a suitable means of social interaction on campus, according to the findings of the SYR task force created by the Hall President's Council (HPC). 
The task force was designed by the HPC in an effort to improve dance restrictions after the cancellation of three dorm SYRs in the 1992 fall semester. The dances were cancelled due to failure to meet the 70 percent dorm mm1mum attendance requirement specified by DuLac. 
The group consisted of seven Notre Dame students of various backgrounds who re­ported their findings to the Campus Life Council (CLC) after almost a month of visiting halls and various dances. 
Meeting for the first time in late January and making final recommendations in early February, the group 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
asked several questions of 
Holding on for dear life 
students about the dances 

A Notre Dame student holds on tightly to the Gyro on the Fieldhouse Mall. The Gyro was a part of the AnTostal activities yesterday. 
see SYRs I page 4 

Kirk: Controversial new policy to solve moving problems 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Despite student concerns, the revised moving-out process should actually alleviate headaches instead of causing them, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Res­idence Life. 
In the past, room inspections were handled individually by each hall, and Residence Assis­tants (R.A.s) examined rooms and assessed fines for damage, according to Kirk. 
Since there were so many problems and complaints from students and parents, the Uni­versity decided on a new in­spection plan which involved the use of University inspectors from the Facilities Operations Department, Kirk said. 

"The R.A.s used to determine reasonable damage and room charges. What we have now is a more consistent policy to cut down complaints," he said. 
The new policy requires stu­dents to have their rooms ready for inspection by 10 p.m. on April 25. Inspector will begin examining rooms and assessing fines during the upcoming study days on April 29 and 30. 
Although the new inspections are meant to help students, many students feel that the deadline to have rooms disas­sembled comes at a bad time, according to Mike Gaunt, an 
R.A. at St. Edward's Hall. 
"People have complained... 
they don't understand why the 
inspections had to happen this 
weekend. It's a bad combina­
tion of inspections, room picks .and finals coming up," he said. 
Sister Annette George, rec­
tress of Lewis Hall, agreed, ex­
plaining that many students 
have complained of the incon­
venience of having the inspec­
tions before. 
"Some students are afraid the 
new policy will disrupt their 
rooms before they would like to, 
but I think once it is over, 
students will be relieved and 
grateful," she said. 
While many students feel that they are required to have their rooms disassembled a week early, the date for room in­spections is the same as last year, according to Kirk. Since last year's inspections were made at a hall level, most oc­curred during Senior Week, when most students were not around, he said. 
According to Lyons sopho­more Meg Garzelloni, the same 
R.A.s who made the initial in­spections in the fall should also inspect in the spring. "Outside inspectors don't know the situation in each dorm. The same people should be inspecting rooms from the beginning to end," she said. 
The inspectors will be un­derstanding and receptive to 
explanation of the room dam­age students are not responsi­ble for, according to Kirk. 
"The inspectors will be very reasonable as far as explana­tions of damage go. Obviously they don't want to charge stu­dents if the damage is not their fault," he said. 
Seniors and other students who will be staying at Notre Dame after finals can re­assemble their rooms after in­spections, according to Kirk. "Seniors can bring their rooms back to a comfortable level. It doesn't have to look like a bare cell," he said. 
Being able to reassemble 
see MOVING I page 4 


Long history precedes battles for gay, lesbian recognition 
Editor's Note: The following is the third of a three-part series examining the place of gays and lesbians on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Campuses. 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 
Despite being the unrecog­nized minority, homosexual students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have had a long history of existence on campus. 
The administration continues to deny recognition of gay and lesbian groups due to the con­flict with their "Catholic charac­ter and teachings of the Uni­versity." But other national, Catholic universities including Georgetown University and Catholic University have homo­sexual organizations on cam­pus. 
"Notre Dame sees itself as be­ing absolutely unique," said Michael Yore, former co­
-----~---------------------~-~-~-------~ 
---------------------, 

The Observer 
THE UNRECOGNIZED MINORITY 

chairman of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLNDSMC). "They will never give up that conservative Catholic identity-they see that as the one way they define themselves." 
Although the most recent controversy surrounding gays and lesbians has been their re­quests to form student groups, simply sparking dialogue about homosexual issues used to be a major achievement in the 1960s. 
The earliest discussion of gays occurred in two articles from 1961 issues of Scholastic. The administration refused to even verify the existence of gays on campus until groups began to organize unofficially. 
"One of Hesburgh's famous quotes ... was that there was no homosexual students at Notre Dame until 1968," said Chuck Colbert, a 1978 graduate and member of the board of direc­tors for the alumni club of Boston. "That claim is abso­lutely ridiculous. We've got alumni in our data base to prove gays existed on campus long before then." 
Gay and lesbian groups first began appearing on campus around 1972, Colbert said. He said he attended his first Gay Community at Notre Dame meeting when he was a sophomore. 
"It was a very, very under­ground, quiet sort of thing," he said. "In those days-especially as an undergrad-it was not heard of to be out and open about it." 
The Gay Community at Notre Dame was not exclusive to Notre Dame students. They shared concerns with groups of people from both South Bend and Saint Mary's. 
The Gay Community dissolved during the early 1980s, but independent "cells" of ho­mosexual students continued to thrive on campus, according to Yore. 
The spring of 1984 saw the emergence of Gay Students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GSND-SMC), the predecessor to GLND/SMC which was estab­lished in 1985. One of their main concerns dealt with establishing a hotline to serve as an avenue of communication between the group and stu­dents. 
One of the most historic events which involved gay stu­dents on campus dealt with a conflict between the adminis­tration and the WSND-FM campus radio station in 1986. 
see HISTORY I page 4 
FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1993 
Boehnen leads ND grads 
By HONORA BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Scott Boehnen, an English major from Medina, Ohio, has been named valedictorian of the University of Notre Dame's 1993 graduating class. 
"I am very pleased," said Boehnen. "I am a little appre­hensive, but very eager to ad­dress my class." 
Boehnen, who will deliver the valedictory address at the May 16 commencement exercises, is the highest ranking graduating senior in the College of Arts and Letters. He has a cumulative grade point aver­age of 3.993. 
Boehnen is a National Merit Scholar sponsored by the Stan­ley Works Corporation, the Richard Hoffman Collins Scholar, ·and the Medina County Retired Teachers Asso­ciation Scholarship recipient. Boehnen also received the Meehan Medal given by the English department for the best senior essay. 
"I am very impressed with the English department," said 
see BOEHNEN I page 6 
P-FLAG supports family, friends of gays 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 
Parents and Friends of Les­bians and Gays {P-FlAG) serves as a support group for non· homosexual individuals who seek counseling to accept friends and family wbo have "come out." 
P-FlAG is a national organi­zation which has a Michiana Chapter. It has no official rela­tionship with Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
The organization has three purposes, according to Ed Manier, spokesperson for P­FLAG and a Notre Dame faculty member. 
They provide education and see P-FLAG I page 6 

~ 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Living off-campus: the ultimate housing solution 
Notre Dame, perhaps 
more than any other 
school in the nation, is 
surrounded and defined 
by tradition. 
The legacy of football, 
single-sex dorms, 
parietals, the Golden 
Dome, the over-priced 
bookstore "on the 
campus," that wacky An News Copy Editor 
Tostal-all of these are 
deeply rooted in Notre Dame tradition. There is 
another ND tradition, however, that I don't 
understand. Why do so many choose to live on 
campus all four years? Too few students explore 
the opportunities for off-campus living. 
Last year, when the time for room picks and such came around, I chose to become one of a very small number of off-campus juniors. I'm not some kind of outcast, and I didn't necessarily have a serious gripe with the university. I just thought I might like off-campus living more than on-campus living. And as it turned out, I was right. 
When I decided to move off-campus, I wondered if it would be a bad decision, because ·uniors normally remain on campus. But as I settled in early this year. I questioned more and more why a larger number of people don't move off. I still wonder, because I have never regretted moving out of the dorm. Some may say that it's bad for the GPA, thinking that an off-campus student misses classes more than an on-campus student.That couldn't be further from the truth. In fact, my first semester off­campus was my best semester so far. 
Living off-campus forces you to take responsibilities that you wouldn't have on campus (but certainly not too much for a 20­year old to handle), and as I became more responsible my classwork improved. So, if you are considering moving off-campus, you shouldn't be afraid that your classwork will suffer. It's in your hands. 
Living off-campus allows you, even forces you, to create your own schedule. In other words, the day is not structured around when the dining hall is open. For example, last night I went to the Library at 4:00 p.m. to begin working on a paper, and I didn't have to take a dinner break. After I was finished, I went home and fixed my own dinner. I can have dinner any time I want. 
There are other bonuses to off-campus living. For one, there isn't a dorm room on campus as big as my apartment. That means plenty o room to spread out. It's quiet enough to have privacy, yet I live around students and live close enough to campus that I feel just as much a part of the university as I ever did. 
Another bonus to off-campus living is the cost. Outside of a dorm, it's much easier to stretch your academic dollar. If you look, you can find some real bargains. Plus. it's nice just knowing that your money is going somewhere other than the University of Notre Dame. A common misconception is that off-campus living is more expensive; but I have saved money this year. Living off-campus allows me to control where my money (especially my food money) is going. Off-campus living has been very good to me, and it can be very good to you. 
The views expressed are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Sports News Jonathan Jensen Katie Murphy Viewpoint John Lucas Allison Ebel Production Business Kathy Fong Gerne Hamilton Ronald Veldman John Connorton Accent Susan Marx Mara Divis Lab Tech Steve Tankovich Kyle Kusek Lynn Bauwens Graphics 
Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



VIa ~lid PIV$6 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Malloy meets with service committee 
• WASHINGTON-On Wednesday, April 21, University President Father Edward 
Malloy joined 24 college presidents from around the nation in a meeting with Eli Segal, the director of the White House Office of National Service, to discuss President Clinton's soon-to-be announced national service legislation. The group of 25 form the executive board of Campus Compact, a coalition of 360 college and 

university presidents committed to encouraging public service as an essential part of undergraduate education. Clinton plans to unveil national service legislation within the next week or two. Joining Malloy were representatives from Drexel, American, Stanford, Georgetown and Xavier Universities and Alverno, Barnard, Spelman, and Marietta Colleges. 
CAMPUS 
SNL's AI Franken to entertain tonight 
• NOTRE DAME-AI Franken from Saturday Night Live and writer of ''I'm Good Enough, I'm Smart Enough and Doggone It, People Like Me" is coming to Notre Dame tonight at 8 p.m in Stepan Center. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for the general public. Prior to his performance, Franken will be autographing his new book from 3:30-5 p.m. at Pandora's Bookmobile, 808 Howard Street on the corner of Notre Dame Avenue. Stuart Smalley, Franken's alter-ego, is noted for his Saturday Night Live vignettes that poke fun at the new age, self­help, co-dependent crowd. In his most memorable session, 
OF INTEREST 
• Just A Sister Away (JASA) will hold its "First An­nual Senior 1\vilight Retreat" on Friday, April 23 from 
8:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m. in Siegfried Hall Chapel. All Se­nior Sisters of Color are cordially invited to this time of reflection and sisterhood. For further information, please contact Kelli at 4-4855. 
• A Samoa Pago-Pago diocese representative, Anne Cusick, will be in the LaFortune Student Center basement near the .Society Bank Saturday from 10 a.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING April 22 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 302,871,830 -1.99 to 243.08 S&P COMPOSITE -4.17 to 439.46 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -10.27 to 3429.17

UNCHANGED 563 

GOLD 
+$0.50 to $340.00/oz 
SILVER +$.010 to $3.917/oz 

Smalley gave Michael Jordan his famous affirmation: "I'm good enough, I'm smart enough and doggone it, I'm gonna be the best basketball player I can be." For more information contact Pandora's at 233-2342 . 
Reception honors SMC seniors 
• NOtRE DAME-A reception will be held today at 2 
p.m. in Haggar Parlor to celebrate those seniors active in the women's studies program at Saint Mary's. Certificates of merit will also be given to honors seniors who have completed the requirements for the women's studies minor. Seniors receiving the honor include Tina Buchanan, Robin Cochrane, Mary Connor, Kathryn Pilot and Renee Young. All interested in celebrating women's studies are welcome to attend, according to Phyllis Kaminski, women's studies coordinator. 
Notre Dame recognized for character 
• NOTRE DAME-For the fifth consecutive year, the University of Notre Dame has been selected to The John Templeton Foundation Honor Roll for Character Building Colleges. Notre Dame was among 111 colleges and universities named to the 1993 honor roll, an annual listing of schools that best "encourage the development o strong moral character among students." More than 900 schools were nominated for the honor roll by presidents and development directors at four-year colleges and universities throughout the United States. Nine schools from Indiana were selected to the '93 honor roll, the most from any state. Joining Notre Dame are Bethel, Goshen, Earlham, Franklin, and Huntington Colleges, and Anderson, DePauw, and Taylor Universities. Among other members of the honor roll are Duke, Wake Forest, Baylor, Brigham Young, and Pepperdine Universities. 
to 4:30 p.m. to interview students interested in teaching in Samoa. 
• Open Minded Theatre presents "Last Call," an evening of one-act plays tonight at 11 p.m. in the Stage Left Theatre in room 214 of Moreau Centre for the Arts. The plays include "II Fornicazione" directed by Shaun Wellen, "Sr. Mary Ignatius Explains it all to You"directed by James Birder and "Stalag 69" directed by Shaun Wellen. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: President-elect George Washington and his wife moved into the first executive mansion, the Franklin House, in New York. 

• 
In 1969: Sirhan Sirhan was sentenced to death for the as­sassination of New York Sen. Robert Kennedy. The sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. 

• 
In 1982: For the first time in 17 years, the government reported a monthly decline in the consumer price index, which fell a seasonally adjusted three-tenths of one percent in March. 

• 
In 1986: The government proposed barring immigration into the United States by people suffering from AIDS. 





---------------~---~-~---·~---------..____ 
Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Mathematicians converge on SMC Chalmers: New models 


By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
The last time the Mathemati­cal Association of America met, the United States was heavily immersed in World War II. 
Over 50 years later, the as­sociation's first tri-section meeting will be hosting more than 400 mathematicians at Saint Mary's college this week­end, according Donald Miller, local arrangements coordinator and math department chair at Saint Mary's. 
On the conference's agenda are many of the same concerns addressed at the 1943 confer­ence. Those include pedagogi­cal concerns in teaching calcu­lus and the incorporation of ap­plications into the undergrad­uate curriculum. 
Other events of the weekend include the following: 
•"Memoirs of a Victorian Mathematician" by Robin Wil­son of Open University , Oxford, England. In period dress and 

HANSHAUS 

The South Side's Finest Eating Establishment Featuring German-American Cuisine Attention 1993 N.D. Graduates! Plan your graduation weekend at the Hans Haus! 
Banquet Facilities Available 10-125 

The following members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community will be Confirmed in the Catholic Church: 
Brian Clark Scoff Ecker Tom Fel/rath Patrick Fischer Alison Fogarty Chip Highsmith Brad Mahlum Doug Minnich Jane Pfannersti/1 Dan Stauffer Steven Stem Miki Strabley Tom Toole Adam Walsh 
Rite of Confirmation and Mass Sunday, Apri125, 1993 1:30p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Bishop Joseph R. Crowley, presider 
~----------------------------------,® 
n __f_r_~~,P-~l~Y!\~Y_£7_l; 11 7 7 
I part X pack II 1--14" L~rge IILate Night Special. I 4... 14 L~rge II . 1 Topptng. II 1--14" Large 1 I HOURS 
1 Topptng Ptzza wtth Sttx ~ . p·
1 11 11 1
1 Pizzas 11 and 2 soft drinks II o$ppSt~~ tzza 1 M,Th ,11 a.m., 1 a.m. I $1995 +Tax II $10°0 +Tax II -+Tax I Fri,Sat,11 a.m., 4 a.m. 
tJditionaiToppings.95Hach 
~.IIAJdition>J!Toppings95~each ~-IIAdditionaiToppin:.:::~.~~m·~-· Sun, Noon, 1 a.m.
._ ________.... _______....... _______... 
I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon •. IINot Valid With Any Other Coupon .• IINot Valid With Any Other Coupon I 
Finals Week (Brain Food) Specials are on the way! 
language, Wilson recreates the presentation of a 19th century British academic. This presentation will be at April 23 at 10:15 a. m. , O'Laughlin Au­ditorium. 
•"What is Research in Math­ematics Education and Who Should Publish It?" This panel discussion, April 23 at 11:50 
a.m. includes Ed Dubinsky, Undergraduate Mathematics Education Trends editor, John Ewing, The American Mathe­matical Monthly editor, Frank Lester, Research in Mathemat­ics Education editor and Brian Winkel, PRIMUS editor. 
•"Moving to the Meta-Level," closing address, will be pre­sented by Marica Sward, execu­tive director of the Mathemati­cal Association of America. The address will be on April 24 on 
1:15 p.m. at Saint Mary's Dining Hall. 
Four attendees from the 1943 tri-section meeting will return as honorees for the confer-


ONLY 16 
ences. They are Ivan Niven of the University of Chicago, P.M. Pepper, formerly of Notre Dame and Ohio State University, W.R. Utz , also a former Notre Dame professor, now at the University of Missouri, and R.M. Thrall, then of the University of Michigan, currently of the University of Houston. 
A banquet, which will cele­brate their accomplishments, will be held on April 23 at 7:30 
p.m. at Saint Adalbert's Hall in South Bend. 
These participants, along with 46 of the Midwest's most prominent mathematicians, all came together at the 1943 meeting at the University of Notre Dame. At that last gath­ering, math professors came from Indiana, Michigan and Illinois. 
This weekend, students will also be part of the conference at student paper sessions. 
At session C, in Madeleva 233, "A Computer System Con­version Project" will be pre­sented by Saint Mary's student, Mary Pat Sullivan at 11:30 a.m. At that same session, "Nuclear Tank Calibration" will be pre­sented by Saint Mary's student Joy Wysocki at 11:45 a.m. 
The Department Of Music Presents 
PATRICK MALONEY 
ina 

!Facu[ty o/oice ~cita[ 
with Tarnari Gurevich, pianist 
Music ofScfwmann, :Jinzi and Poufenc 
Sunday, April25, 1993, 2:00 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 

server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit resume and a 1-2 page personal statement to Meredith MCCullough by 5 p.m., Friday, April 23. Contact Meredith at 239-5303 for more information. 
TO ORDER 
needed for Latin politics 
By CHRIS HANIFIN News Writer 
The end of the Cold War, a communications revolution, and the changing role of the state in Latin America necessi­tate a new view of international politics, according to David Chalmers, director of the Insti­tute of Latin American and Iberian Studies at Columbia University. 
"I find it increasingly desir­able to make a conceptual shift on the way we view the role of foreigners in Latin America," Chalmers said. "We need to shift from conventional models of politics to what I like to call an international model." 
"It is clearly not true that in­ternational actors are new-one can look all the way back to the conquests. What changed was the patterning of the interna­tional actors," he added. 
Chalmers characterized the 
conventional model of politics 
as the belief that most foreign 
influence travels through 
diplomatic channels or military 
intervention. 
"Outsiders are active in Latin America, treated in one of two ways-as elements of dependency theory [on the U.S.] or as intervening militarily. It seems that foreign countries have been setting conditions which these countries must meet," Chalmers said. 
Chalmers said that a more accurate picture can be con­structed as one sees the variety of internationally based actors who influence governments. Chalmers defined these actors as being as varied as multi-na­tional corporations and human rights organizations. 
"An international actor is any entity playing an ongoing, long­term role in the region while maintaining an international base of resources and identities," he said. "My rule of thumb is to include any actor with a stake in the decisions made by a government," Chalmers added. 
"The simple thing I am sug­gesting is that any interna­tionally based actor will play a role in the region," Chalmers said.· 
Some nations might be dis­pleased with the apparent loss of independence that increased international cooperation brings about. 
"Sovereignty is a very tangled issue in these cases. For example, people speak of human rights organizations as limiting sovereignty by bringing pressure to bear on governments. What in fact took place was the creation of a series of important groups within each country who then drew on international support," said Chalmers. 
"This is not the imposition of 
an international regime," 
Chalmers emphasized. 
"We must consider roles not 
in terms of a direct impact and 
effect, but instead consider the 
institutional dimension," said 
Chalmers. 
As an example he cited the 
changing role of the United 
States in Latin America. The 
U.S. once had a proconsular role, determining who would be established in government. 

..------~------------. -------~---~------------------­
page4 

History 
continued from page 1 
The administration pulled the 
plug when WSND started run­
ning gay and lesbian public 
service announcements. Eileen 
Ridley, the station manager, and 
most of her staff resigned when 
the University refused to let the 
station run the announcements. 
"I rnalized that because of the 
principles involved I had to 
stand against the Administra­
tion's decision," she said in a 
1986 interview. "I resigned with 
the intention of fighting for the 
public's right." 
GLND/SMC was the first ho­mosexual group to apply for recognition to the University. They were denied office space and a telephone by the admin­istration on July 7, 1986. Saint Mary's rejected GLND/SMCs proposal for recognition on Oct. 6, 1986. GLND/SMC was most recently denied recognition as a student group in May of 1992. 
Student Senate also denied GLND/SMC the right to reserve campus rooms for meetings and communication through University media. Student Af­fairs denied any homosexual group from publishing adver­tisements in The Observer in the spring of 1991. 
On Saint Patrick's Day 1990, Mike Miller, former co-chair of GLND/SMC, helped establish Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame (GALA-ND). Statis­tics show that many alumni have become more open with their sexual preferences since this group's establishment. There is currently over 130 alumni on GALA's mailing list. 
Another substantial event in the history of gays at Notre Dame came with the resigna­tion of Father James Burtchaell in the fall of 1991. He was dismissed from the University for having homosexual rela­tionships with students. 
"Many gays on campus were 
The Observer Friday, April 23, 1993 
real angry, but at the same time many were real sad," Vore said. "Like it or not, Burtchaell is gay. Seeing somebody you understand go through something like that was a terrible thing." 
Most recently, a book pub­lished last week verified suspi­cions that Tom Dooley, a 1948 graduate and humanitarian, was a homosexual. Vore said he believed the University knew about this long before the recent publication. 
"Dooley was a national hero, and there is no question that he was gay," he said. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, students and alumni will take part in the largest civil rights demonstra­tion in America's history. The March on Washington for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Rights is expected to attract over one million participants. 
"We're going to be there car­rying our 'Gay and Lesbian Fighting Irish' banner and wearing our Notre Dame clothes," Colbert said. "The real story is that we've survived for over 30 years at Notre Dame despite all the heavy restric­tions and the Administration trying to enforce invisibility. When will they realize that we're real and that we're here to stay?" 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY HAMERS! OUR "IRISH TWINS" 
SEAN "20" 4~24 AND SHANNON "21" 5~20 

LOVE MOM, DAD, AND CASEY 

New Course 
Now available for registration 
Attention: English Majors/Gender Studies Students 
(Also open to non-English/Gender Studies majors) 
5187 ENGL 41 ZE 
Feminist Readings: Theory and Practice Th 1:15-2:30 
A new course in feminist theories and their applications to literary texts. Taught by Minow-Pinkey visiting from the University of Lancaster, UK. 
1
Nl] 
6 
! Jelreroon 
I 
Main & jefferson 
Hours 
Mon-Sat ll a.m.-llp.m. Sun 4 • 9 p.m. 
257 , 1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273, 2EAT 
$2 off any pizza with Student ID 

Moving 
continued from page 1 
rooms after the inspections may not be that great a help for many seniors who will sell their furniture and carpeting, ac­cording to Gaunt. 
"How many seniors keep their carpeting? Most sell it and it goes into hall storage along with their furniture, until next year," Gaunt said. 
The changes have been made to benefit students and are not meant to inconvenience them, Kirk said. "The perception is that we're just doing this to be difficult, but actually it (the pol­icy) should eliminate some of the complaints we've had from students and parents." 
Kirk said he hoped that dorms and R.A.s would have been able to clear up any confusion that resulted from the new policy, which was sent to each student. 
"We tried to make it (the pol­icy) clear, and our hope was with the letter we sent out, we could set the ground rules," he said. "A meeting with rectors looked like a good idea, but un­derstandably, it's difficult to get all the rectors together at this time of year." 


SYRs 
continued from page 1 

and attended the gatherings to witness interaction. 
They reported that five major issues needed to be addressed including the purpose of SYRs, alcohol consumption, food, 24-hour space and some miscella­neous items. 
The committee concluded that SYRs serve to provide students with "an opportunity to date and to learn how to relate with members of the opposite sex." 
The group also included in its report one student's statement that "an SYR is the sole event on campus that promotes dating, dorm unity, spirit, and overall social interaction." 
Hevised recommendations of the committee included lowering the mm1mum attendance to 60 percent dorm participation and changing the number of days needed to process an SYR request from one week to three days. 
The committee also proposed that the Office of Student Affairs and the halls sponsor a non-alcoholic semi­formal for freshmen during orientation week. 
The CLC will review the task force's proposals and decide whether or not to amend campus policies this summer when revising DuLac. 

~?6J. GREAT \YALL. 
J; ~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT 6 COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin a Hunan Culslnel 
UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m­
$895 Chnd"'" $395
ALL YOU CAN EAT under 10 
lncludel Soup, Salld Bllr, Appetlaers, I Different ~a Delearts 
130 Dixie WayS-, Soultl Bend 272•7376
(nexlto lf•ndlll'llnn) 
Students who wish to enroll in First Year 
apanese this fall may do so NOW via DART instead of waiting until the first week of classes as previously advised. Exemption forms are still required and may be obtained from the Department of Classical and Oriental Languages, 304 O'Shaughnessy Hall ( 631, 7195). For more information, please contact Prof. Michael Brownstein, 273 Decio Hall (631, 7769). 
COMMENCEMENT TICKET REQUEST RESULTS 
ALL STUDENTS WHO ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE MAY COMMENCEMENT CEREMONY AN WHO HAVE INDICATED THE NUMBER OF TICKETS REQUESTED (UP TO A MAXIMUM OF FOUR) ON THE COMMENCEMENT TICKET REQUEST FORM WILL HAVE THOSE REQUESTS HONORED. 
FURTHERMORE, A NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL TICKETS WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE, BY LOTTERY, TO THOSE WHO REQUESTED ON THE COMMENCEMENT TICKET REQUEST FORM THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO PARTICIPATE IN A LOTTERY FOR A CHANCE TO OBTAIN ONE ADDITIONAL TICKET. RESULTS WILL BE POSTED IN FRONT OF THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE BEGINNING 1 :00 P.M. ON TUESDAY, APRIL 
27, 1993. 

PLEASE NOTE THAT NO CHANGES MAY BE MADE TO THE ORIGINAL TICKET REQUEST FORM SUBMITTED. 
YOU ARE REMINDED THAT COMMENCEMENT TICKETS ARE A PRIVILEGE AND ARE GIVEN TO EACH GRADUATE BY THE UNIVERSITY. ANY ATTEMPT TO TRANSFER THESE TICKETS FOR A CONSIDERATION (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO MONEY, GIFTS, PROPERTY) IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED, AND SHALL BE GROUNDS FOR FORFEITING YOUR PRIVILEGE TO RECEIVE OR RETAIN ANY OF THEM. 
OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 

Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer 

One Notre Dame student is yanked backwards by the Bungee Run as his friend continues forward. The Bungee Run was a part of Student Union Board's AnTostal festivities yesterday. 
w 

._ . 
. 
page 5 

SMC women celebrate leadership successes 
By CHRISTINA CANNON 
News Writer 
"Celebrating a Leadership Community," a conference that will highlight the achievements of Saint Mary's students, hopes to get people thinking about women in leadership roles, said Marlene Johnson, leadership development committee chairperson. 
The event, which is to be held April 25 and 26, will include a series of programs that, "explore the ways in which Saint Mary's fosters leadership and the ways in which we are a leadership community," said Johnson. 
Although Saint Mary's has had programs similar in nature, this is the first to recognize the whole Saint Mary's community. The main difference this year is that "in the year's past we had a student appreciation day," said Johnson. 
"We decided to build on the aspect of leadership and bring in all aspects-the student body, student government, and classroom leaders this year." 
On Sunday there will be a workshop in which students will be given the opportunity to work with recent alumnae and graduating seniors to "shape plans for individual growth and change," said Johnson. 
The following day a wider range of activities have been planned, including a display of past and present Saint Mary's leaders in the Cushwa-Leighton library. A luncheon giving stu­dents an opportunity to talk and eat with faculty and administration will also be a part of the day's activities. 
The luncheon will feature Maggie Berlin, a law student at Washington and Lee University and a 1991 Saint Mary's graduate. 
Earth Day tainted by ozone report 

LECTURE
BYRev. Cyprian 

OSB 
.... April 27, 1993 
.... 7:30pm -9:30pm 
.,... Library Auditorium 
.,... Receplion to follow in the Faculty Lounge 
The 
History 
of Black Catholics in the United 

(AP)-Earth Day was cele­brated around the world on Thursday, but not everyone was optimistic about the planet's future. 
India's environment minister said that despite the endorse­ment of an environmental agenda by world leaders in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, last year, the emission of gases that con­tribute to global warming con­tinues to rise. 
"Emissions are going up while the availability of funds to the developing countries are going down," Kamal Nath said in New Delhi, the United News of India reported. 
In Washington, researchers released a report that shows the protective ozone layer dropped to record-low concen­trations last year, with the biggest decline seen over areas that include North America, Europe and parts of Asia. 
J. F. Gleason, a scientist at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland, said measurements last December and January by a NASA satellite showed that the ozone layer surrounding the Earth was thinner than in any previous measurements. 
Richard Stolarski, another 
EARTH DAY 93 
Q) 

scientist at Goddard, said ul­traviolet radiation not filtered out by the ozone layer "is en­ergetic enough to break the bonds of DNA," a measure of the potential for causing genetic change. 
In many international cities, celebrations of Earth Day were nowhere to be seen or weren't going to be held until the weekend. 
Still, the creator of Earth Day has watched his cause grow considerably from a small envi­ronmental fringe movement. 
"The environment has moved into the establishment," said Gaylord Nelson, the 76-year-old former Wisconsin senator who persuaded his colleagues in Congress back in 1970 to create a day honoring Mother Earth. "Every year there's more interest than there was the year before." 
In Pullman. Wash., members of the Washington State University zoology club cele­
l'r"'""""""""""""~~~""""~~~""""~""""""""'""""'""""'~""""=""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'~""""'""""'""""'====~====""""'""""'=~===""""'""""'~""""'""""'""""'""""'il-. 
brated by buying 2 acres in a South American rain forest for dlrs 80. 
In Missoula, Mont., a group opposed to nuclear weapons testing planned to read ac­counts of 950 nuclear explo­sions. 
"We'd like people to leave with a greater awareness of how little we know, and how much has been hidden from us," said Deborah Bond, a spokeswoman for the group. 
On Grand Cayman in the Caribbean, volunteer groups cleaned the resort beaches and children planted mahogany trees, which are native to the island and have been depleted by development. 
And in Paris, a 46-foot inflat­able blue whale was displayed on the Champs de Mars, in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower, by the environmental group Greenpeace. Members said they hoped to pressure the In­ternational Whaling Commis­sion to ban whaling when it meets next month, in Kyoto, Japan. 
About 100 high school stu­dents participated in a "green march" in Warsaw, Poland, carrying green and white ban­
ners and strings of trash to call
attention to pollution. 
The chairman of the Russian parliamentary environmental committee, Vladimir Vor­
folomeev, issued an Earth Day appeal to citizens. 
Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
Apartments Available at 
8250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 

• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 

• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping 

• 
Fenced Parking 


changes we have maile. You won't be disappointed! 
Indian Ridge Plaza 

II Come see the 
For more info call: next to Venture 
Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946

232-8256 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 



--· ~---­
page 6 The Observer Friday, April 23, 1993 
P-FLAG Alabama governor convicted on ethics charge 
continued from page 1 
support for members through informal, confidential forums; offer support and encourage­ment for lesbians and gays dur­ing the process of "coming out" to their families; and educate misinformed and distorted so­cial attitudes about homosexuality. 
P-FLAG holds meetings every fourth Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m., at Christ the King Lutheran Church. The meetings are open to everyone who accepts the goals and the condition of confidentiality of attendance and conversation of P-FLAG meetings 
UVA faculty to consider relations ban 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) -University of Virginia faculty members on Thursday endorsed a compromise pro­posal that bans sexual relations between instructors and the students they teach. 
The Faculty Senate voted 31-4 for the ban instead of a strict prohibition against all sex be­tween students and faculty that a Women's Concerns Committee had advocated. 
Supporters said the strict pol­icy would curb sexual intimida­tion of students, but opponents decry it as an unconstitutional limit on love. 
Women's committee members said they were satisfied with the compromise. 
"We just weren't going to win," said third-year student Angela Kline. "We wanted something to protect the stu­dents." 
The faculty vote will be sent to university President John Casteen Ill. who will make a recommendation to the board of visitors. The board sets pol­icy at the 18,000-student school Thomas Jefferson founded in 1819. 
"We've gone to a lot of trouble and I'm certain that he'll pay a great deal of heed to our advice," said Robert Kretsinger, president of the 98­member Senate. which repre­sents the school's 2,000 faculty members. It wasn't immediately clear why only 35 Faculty Senate members voted. 
The proposal offered by the women's committee would have banned all sexual or amorous relations between un­dergraduate students and fac­ulty. It also would have barred similar activity between profes­sors and graduate students in the same department, teaching assistants and their students, and financial officers. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1994-95. If you are currently a junior and interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Tuesday evening, April27, 1993 at 7:00 p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) -looting $200,000 from his tax­The ouster of Republican Gov. exempt 1987 inaugural fund, a Guy Hunt on a felony ethics verdict that by law removes him conviction Thursday thrust from office in his second term Democratic Lt. Gov. Jim Folsom as Alabama's first GOP into the governor's office even governor this century. as Hunt promised a legal battle Hunt, appearing stunned but to regain it. dry-eyed, moved through the 
"We will be fighting to clear courtroom hugging weeping this and clear my name," Hunt, supporters after the verdict was a Primitive Baptist preacher, announced on the ninth day of said outside the courtroom. the trial. "This is not my battle now. It's the state of Alabama's battle." Circuit Judge Randall Thomas 
The jury convicted Hunt of called the 59-year-old Hunt to representative to the freshman class council. 
Boehnen 
Boehnen also studied abroad continued from page 1 in the London program and served as a volunteer tutor in
Boehnen. He explained that the English for Saint Mary of theadvising stafT, class sizes, and Angels Church of London. 
the liberal arts education 
"My Notre Dame experiencehelped him to achieve many of has been intellectually, socially, his honors. 

and spiritually rewarding," ex­Boehnen is a four-year edito­pressed Boehnen. "The envi­

rial staff member of the 
ronment here influences the"Juggler," Notre Dame's fine 

whole person." 

arts magazine, the 1991 After graduation, Boehnen
provost's student appointment will be studying English in the to the Committee to Evaluate 
graduate studies program at

the Freshman Writing Program, Stanford University. Boehnen
the 1991 advisor to the 
intends to be a college Englishfreshman class council, and the professor.

1990 Saint Edward's Hall's 
NewPasta Choiosfrom
,,'=$4.99 
"Spaghetti, Manicotti, Stuffed Shel~ or Tortellini with your Choice of Alfredo, Marinara or Meat Sauce! 
~~ A~o try our traditional 
T nr
LU)agna./" 


,~ 
WhenwetalkItalian 
thta~~up?J!~ety.
Olfcrmmlableat [lllllcijlltingiL-,uurJrus fora lulutLll um: onl\: 
SIJ2!Y~ 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
stand before him in the courtroom as he set a May 7 date for sentencing. The maximum penalty is 10 years in prison and a $10,000 fine. 
Hunt's chief defense attorney, George Beck, said no appeal would be filed before the May 7 proceeding. 
Hunt would be restored to office if the verdict is over­turned on appeal by January 1995, the scheduled end of his term. 
"Whether the governor vio­lated the law to such an extent that he deserves the peniten­tiary, it's up to the judge," said Attorney General Jimmy Evans, the chief prosecutor. "Is the defendant remorseful or is the defendant arrogant?" 
Hunt's conviction automati­cally elevated the 43-year-old Folsom to the governor's office that his father, the late Gov. James "Big Jim" Folsom, held for two terms in the 1940s and 1950s. 
On leaving the courthouse after becoming Alabama's first governor ousted for conviction of a felony, Hunt said he would go to the Governor's Mansion to pray with family and friends. 
ANTON 
IS 
21 
TODAY! 
GIVE HIM A HUG, NOT A MUG ... 


• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • 
[l)

~Fe»~ c 
(/) <( 0 
(j)
CY. 

u <( 
NOTREDAME ~ tiJ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION ~ 
(.!) 
0 
:::J 

lD • JUIEJUIBERS ' ~ ~ 
(/) 

w [l) 
_J You Are Invited To ASale From ~ Budget Car Sales ~d H~lre Dame ~ Federal Credit Union ~ WtDNESDAY ITHURSDAY I~':fLY IsA:~AY : 
APRIL APRIL 
28m 29nt 
WED.-• 
(/) 

(/) ~ • 100'/aFINANONG
<( OAVAIWU! 
NO ._,.lEY DOWN • 
u ~ <( EXUNDED tiJ 
(.!) SERVIa 0 CONTRA<.T 
:::J Available On Most Models! lD 

• OTHER RATES AND TERMS TO 60 MONTHS ALSO AVAILABLE ' • iiJ ' WITH APPROVED CREDIT ON SELECTED MODELS ~ 
IF= !!~~UQ.!:!I 
~ 124 E.IRELAND~ 
CY. (US 31 & IRELAND. THE OLD BRITE WAY) --; 
gSOUTH BEND ·(219)299-1444 ~ 
g(Telephone No. cornec::ted c:Urg soJa, arty) r;:; 
1:5 Budget sells rental fleet cars, pre-owned cars and quality trade-:ns. ~ 
• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES 
1ST §

30m FRI 12NOON-8PM • SAT.l OAM-4PM 
[l)
TOP DOLLAR 
c
FOR YOUR 0TRADE-IN (j) 
m 
--; 
FIIANa RATES AS LOW AS ~ 8 0 %*~
• APR Vl
r;:; 


-~----------~~­
-----------------w----~--~---------------~----~----------~ 
Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer 
page 7 

FBI sifts through Waco rubble Clinton strives to regain 
WACO, Texas (AP) -Inves­the 51-day standoff. tigators began removing bodies "I am not sure where they from the burned rubble of the_ received that information," 
Branch Davidian compound Thursday and the top medical examiner disputed federal assertions that some victims had been shot. Authorities said 46 bodies had been found. 
"We heard rumors ... that there were several people who might have shot themselves or who had been shot," said Dr. Nizam Peerwani, who heads the Tarrant County medical ex­aminer's office in Fort Worth. "There is absolutely no evi­dence of that as far as we are concerned at this stage." 
Carl Stern of the Justice De­partment in Washington said Wednesday at least three bodies suffered gunshots. That raised speculation that cult members may have committed suicide or been shot by other cultists before Monday's fire that ended Peerwani said. 

Stern on Thursday defended his statement, saying that Peerwani's medical team has just started its investigation. 
Cult leader David Koresh and 85 followers are believed to have died in the fire that broke out as the FBI attempted to force a surrender by using ar­mored vehicles to punch holes and pump tear gas inside their compound. Nine survived, six of whom claim the FBI started the blaze. 
The FBI says Koresh com­manded a fiery mass suicide. 
Peerwani said 46 bodies, many of them "soft and crumbling" have been found, including some children. But, he said, none have been identi­fied. 
He said one body already 
Celebrate the BLUE AND GOLD GAME with a Handcolored Print by Ken David 
On sale Anytime at Lafortune Information Desk with a portion of the proceeds benefitting Student Activities! and at O'Hara Room --LaFortune April 23, 24 --9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

Happy 
21st 
Birthday Janie 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Joe 
OAK HILL CONDOMINIUM FOR SALE 

MUST SELL! 
CONVENIENT TO ND I SMC 1,900 Square Feet 4 Bedrooms I 3 Bathrooms Community Clubhouse and Pool 
Asking $83,750 
PERFECT FOR FACULTY, STAFF, COACHES, STUDENTS AND ALUMNI. AN INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY! For more info call: (219) 273,9204 
**Open House Sunday 2 to 5** 
8AK HILL CONDOMINIUM FOR SALE_
---·--------------------­
removed and examined was that of a man in his 50s who died from smoke inhalation. 
Peerwani said many of the children killed in the blaze ­there were believed to be 17 children 10 years old and younger -may never be found because the blaze may have "literally incinerated their bod­ies." 
The 46 bodies will likely be transported to Fort Worth and autopsied Friday, Peerwani said. 
Dr. Rodney Crow, a forensic dentist who's assisting in the case, said dental records may be the only way to identify the victims. 
"There are no faces on some of them and the faces are just completely powder," Crow said. "Hopefully, the teeth, taking a much higher temperature to destruct, will be in this debris. But as it stands now, I have seen several that the facial features are completely gone." 
Crow said identification could take months because many of the dental records will have to be obtained from places as far away as Australia, England and the Caribbean. Many of the cultists were foreigners. 
Crow said at least nine bodies have been located in a bunker containing "millions of rounds of ammunition." 
legislative momentum 
move forward on immunization and all the other important initiatives contained in his package." 
Other White House aides said 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House, still reeling from its jobs-bill defeat, searched Thursday for initiatives on which to score a clear-cut victory before getting enmeshed in other looming disputes over campaign finance reform and national health insurance. 
One candidate: Clinton's proposal to restructure the college loan program to allow students to pay off their loans through national service. 
Clinton announced that he'd send the measure -a key campaign promise -to Congress next week. While not without controversy, the program at least is relatively straightforward and holds out the possibility of attracting bipartisan support. 
Meanwhile, the administration worked -without much optimism -with Democratic leaders on ways to salvage parts of Clinton's decimated jobs-stimulus package. 
"There are a number of options," White House communications director George Stephanopoulos said. 
"The president wants to move forward on summer jobs, he wants to move forward on investments in highways and mass transit, and he wants to that a supplemental appropriations bill might be introduced in the House next week that would include spending for these jettisoned programs. 
The mood at the White House was clearly dark a day after Clinton was handed his first major legislative defeat as Democratic leaders failed for the fourth time in a month to break a Republican filibuster on Clinton's $16.3 billion jobs­stimulus package. 
The White House and the Democratic leadership then abandoned the proposal and approved instead a $4 billion program to provide jobless benefits for unemployed workers who have exhausted their benefits -the only part of the package that wasn't resisted by the GOP. 
Other parts of Clinton's overall economic plan also appeared to be unravelling. 
White House officials reluctantly signaled they might have to reconsider a part of the package -an investment tax credit -which is opposed by Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and other key Democrats. 
"We're looking at it right now," White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said. ''I'm not ruling it in, I'm not ruling it out." 
,~ut:ta.uu"' are held the fourth Sunday of each from 2:00-4:00 pm at Christ the King Lutherao Church on 17195 Cleveland Road 
Next Meeting April 25th. 
person who attends our meetings has the right to expect the following protection and the responsibility to extend it to everyone else present: 
What is said in our meetings, as well as the irfiConf'.if'iiC•c of people attending, is to be kept 
strictly confidential. 

-----~-~-------.......-------...------------------~--~---~------~
----~ 
page 8 The Observer Friday, April 23, 1993 
New museum dedicated to memory of Holocaust 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A half century and a world away from the gas chambers of Auschwitz, Majdanek and Chelmno, a new Holocaust museum was dedi­cated Thursday to teach future generations the lessons of what one survivor called "the black hole in time. the black hole in history." 
Before 7,000 people, many of them survivors of the concen­tration camps erected by Nazi Germany in World War II with a mission to exterminate the Jews, came a repeated admoni­tion: Never again. 
From Elie Wiesel, who won a Nobel Prize for his efforts to keep the Holocaust memory alive, came this recollection: 
"In Poland, SS officers used Jewish infants for target prac­tice. The only emotion they ever showed was anger when they missed," he said. "In Kiev, an SS officer beheaded two Jewish children in front of her mother, who in her anguish, in prey of some mystical madness, held them close to her bosom and began to dance. In Romania, the Iron Guard hanged Jews on meat hooks and displayed them in butcher shops, with signs, 'Kosher Meat.'" 
Through starvation, execution, and overwork, Hitler's henchmen executed 6 million Jews, two third of the pre-war population of Europe, in their drive for a "Final Solution." 
In his dedication address. President Clinton said the mu­seum binds "one of the darkest lessons in history to the hopeful soul of America." 
At the end of his speech, Wiesel turned to Clinton. 
"Mr. President, I cannot not tell you something," he said. "I have been in the former Yu­goslavia last fall. I cannot sleep since (because oO what I have seen.... We must stop the bloodshed in that country. People fight each other and children die. Why? Something. anything, must be done." 
The president, who is con­sidering using military force in the former Yugoslavia, said "ethnic cleansing" in Bosnia is 'but the most brutal and bla­tant" example of evil in the world today. 
The museum reminds the world "again and again how fragile are the safeguards of civilization," he said. 
Throughout the ceremony. held on a rainy, windy day on a plaza fronting the museum, the derisive chants of demonstra­tors who spread the falsehood that the Holocaust was a hoax, could be heard by the crowd. 
As if in answer, Clinton said, "Look at the liars and the pro­pagandists among us, the skinheads and the Liberty Lobby here at home, the Afrikaners Resistance Move­ment in South Africa, the radi­cal party of Serbia, the Russian Black Shirts .... 
"The evil represented in this museum is incontestable .... We must stop the fabricators of history and the bullies as well. Left unchallenged, they would still prey upon the powerless. and we must not permit that to happen again." 
The museum, built with $168 million in donated funds, will open to the public next Monday. Its admission is free but agencies that handle the tickets charge a fee. 


In the audience were the heads of 12 states and members of the Senate and the House. But attention was not on them. It was on the speakers. 
-Wiesel: "There were only two categories: those who were there to kill and those who were there to be killed." 
-Chaim Herzog, president of Israel: "For us, one of the major lessons has been that it is not 
AP/Aian Baseden 
sufficient to have justice on your side; it is essential to be strong enough to defend it." 
-Harvey Meyerhoff, chairman of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council: "This building tells the story of events that human eyes should never have seen once, but having been seen, must never be forgotten .... It is not sufficient to remember the past. We must learn from it." 


HAPPY 
21ST 
BIRTHDAY 
~~ LUNCH SPECIAL·fu~ FREE SOUP WITHPANCAKE Senio~~Discount ANY SANDWICHHOUSE 15% OFF ORDERMon. thru Fri.rtucl!J Rt6Uuruud Mon.-rri. Only Arter II a.m. Ple<tSe No Coupon Needed APRIL SPECIAL Our Specialty -Oven Baked 1~1 UU18 il1 QR8 ''' • Mon.-Fri. OnlyAPPLE PANCAKES ALL STEAK DINNERS Buy 1, Get 1 SAVE $1 q"ER?P~FPLEASE1/2 Off NO COUPON NEEDED Save 12.48. Mon.-rri. Only. No Coupon Needed Serving Mlchlana for 2.7 Years U.S. 3 t North In Roseland Open 7 Days A Week (Across From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 At 6:30A.M.  
CLASS OF '95 Last chance to pick up an application for Junior Class Council. They will be available in the Student Government office through Friday.  



.....--.tT 

Business 
Friday, April 23, 1993 page 9 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Bundesb nk lowers rate to alleviate rece 
•BERUN -The central bank lowered interest rates>Th 
:y for the third time this year, a move welcomed by gove-rmn~nl officials looking for a way out ofGermany's recession. The reductions could also help ease pressure on European currencies that were devalued againstJhe power!~ Gernuul'' mark last year. The Bundesbank's policy•making Central Council -which made the unexpected announcement after its weekly meeting in Frankfurt -lowered the discount rate to 7.25 percent from 7.5 percent, and the LOmbard rate to 8.5 percent from 9 percent. Lowering rates can promote business growth by making loans cheaper, and also tends to make the German mark less attractive against other currencies. Central banks in Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Austria also announced interest rate cuts Thursday. 
Government's disability fund near bankruptcy ···· 
•wASHINGTON-The economic downturn helped push the government;a disability trust fund to the edge of bankruptcy and it now has only enough money to pay benefits until 1995, Congress was told Thursday. But Congress is expected to act, soon to avert disaster by shifting a greater portion of the Social.) Security payroll tax into the disability trust fund, keeping it solvent until 2020. The General Accounting Office's Jane floss .. told the House Ways and Means subcommittee on Social Security that the growing number of Americans on the disability rolls has drained the insurance trust fund. The rolls are also swelling because baby boomers are now reaching the age at which disability rates begin to increase. said Robert Ball,.former Social Security Commissioner. 
Delco Remtl and UAW settle dispute . ·' ··. 
•ANDERsO ~ Ind.-A settlement between Delco Remy and the United Auto Workers over 7,000 union grievances pave$ the; way for successful contract negotiations this fall, a; .union official·· says. The Anderson-based General Motors Corp>division and UAW Local 662 reached their agreement Wednesday, after more than a week of around-the-clock bargaining. Details of the pact weren't disclosed, but representatives have said the primary issues were the outsourcing of production work <).nd subcontracting of skilled trades work. Under the pact, the union is supposed to have the opportunity to determine ways· to cut costs before work goes to an outside company. 
900-number industry claims government over-regulates 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The once flourishing world of 900 number telephone calls is in danger because of over-regu­lation by the federal govern­ment, industry executives told the Federal Trade Commission on Thursday. 
Take, for example, the warning the government wants in every TV commercial for a 900 number service. 
It absorbs nine seconds, or almost one third of a 30-second ad, said Francis Mooney of the American Association of Ad­vertising Agencies. 
"We needed a kick," said Bruce Fogel, chairman of Phone Programs Inc., whose company runs several sports information 900 number lines. But he said the industry got the message and cleaned up its act after previous FTC actions against it. 
The industry is shrinking, he said, "These rules will put us out of business." 
Consumer advocates have pushed for greater protection, particularly for 900 services aimed at children. 
The rules are being made to enforce the Telephone Disclo­sure and Dispute Resolution Act passed by Congress last Oc­tober. 
During a two-day workshop that started Thursday, the FTC is holding an open discussion of the rules with consumer ad­vocates, trade association rep­resentatives, 900 number ser­vice providers and phone com­panies. 
By DANA ANDERSON 
Business Writer 
Tom Lowe, CEO of Playing Mantis Toys Inc., spoke on Wednesday to students as the featured speaker in the En­trepreneur Club's Lecture Series. 
One of the secrets to Lowe's success is that his goal in life was to be an entrepreneur. He definitely has become that, suc­cessfully selling many of his products to stores such as Ven­ture, Target, and Woolworth's. His sales figures show this suc­cess, as his company grossed $1.6 million in 1992, and $4 million in 1993. 
Lowe's company, based in Cassopolis, Michigan, which is in the Michiana region, does not manufacture any of its products. Instead, it only im­ports its products, which have been developed from Lo\Ve's ideas. 
Over one hundred various products have been developed, including a lock for Nintendo game systems and a stack rack for video games. However, Lowe does not develop just any product. "If I can't profit off the products, I won't use them," he said. 
Lowe also shared with the group his fourteen lessons for an entrepreneur whh;h he said he developed "through the school of hard knocks." 
The first lesson for an en­trepreneur is to formulate a business plan. "This is neces­sary to do from day one,"according to Lowe, 
Lowe next noted that not only will everything cost more than a person might think, but it will also take longer to ac­complish than previously planned. A wise entrepreneur should thus leave allowances for tl}is in his or her strategy planning. 
The next lesson is to make sure that a new venture is never undercapitalized. A problem for many en­trepreneurs that occurs all too often, said Lowe, is that they underestimate costs and over­estimate profits. 
In addition, owners of busi­nesses should make sure that 
Business class creates shirt to benefit homeless 
By MICHAEL WORKMAN chance to experience and deal Business Writer with the problems of modern 
management, along with 
In an effort to put their text­helping the community," Bowen book knowledge to good use, a continued. class of Notre Dames business students has created a small Throughout the semester the business unit that will be selling students have worked on the Notre Dame t-shirts to benefit design, production, and distri­the South bution of the shirt during their Bend Center classes. for the Homeless. Eoin Beirne, a student in the 
class, said, "At first we did not 
The group realize how much work the is made up of project involved, but after we twenty had the first meeting to begin students from design of the shirt, we quickly Professor saw it was going to take a lot of Michael cooperation among all of us for Bowen's the shirt to be any good." 
Business 
Management The shirt features a Monopoly class. The project is intended board on the back with several to give the students real world Notre Dame traditions taking experience in handling the place of the properties management situations that centered around the image of 
often arise in the workplace, Lou Holtz in the center. said Bowen. The shirt goes on sale at Sat­
"The purpose of the class is to urday's Blue & Gold, and will learn about management and I continue to be available around think that it is wonderful that campus until the end of the the students are getting the semester. 


GE whistleblower settles with Government 
WASHINGTON-A General Electric whistleblower who sued his company for over­charging the United States for aircraft parts for Israel will get $11.45 million through a set­tlement with the U.S. govern­ment announced Thursday. 
Chester Walsh, represented by the Taxpayers Against Fraud, initially sued GE in 1990 under the False Claims Act that enables whistleblowers to share in recoveries from companies that defraud the government. 
The federal government 
oined in the litigation in 1991, nd last year, it entered an greement with GE requiring 
the company to pay $59.5 mil­lion. In addition to that amount, 
U.S. District Judge Carl Rubin in Cincinnati also imposed a $9.5 million fme. 
Last December, the judge ordered that Walsh should get some $13.4 million of the total, but the government objected, alleging that Walsh had been a party to GE's initial false claims. 
The government appealed the ruling, but while doing so, opened negotiations with Walsh leading to the agreement an­nounced by the Justice De­partment on Thursday. 
Since Walsh receive,d $2 mil­lion from the GE settlement as the appeal was pending, the government owes him $9.45 million more and must pay that within five days of court ap­proval of the agreement. 
The government also agreed to drop its appeal. 
The company last year admit­ted defrauding the Pentagon and the Israeli Defense Ministry by filing more than $40 million in false claims and was allowed to plead guilty to criminal charges of defrauding the federal government of $26.5 million. 
Walsh was working for GE in Israel when he became suspi­cious in 1987, he said at a news conference in Cincinnati last year. 
He said he waited four years to pursue charges against GE because he feared for his life while in Israel and that he couldn't prove his allegations until he smuggled some docu­ments out of Israel. 
He said he pursued the case because he believed it was the right thing to do. 
"It's always easy to sit back and do nothing," Walsh said. "You grow up with certain ethics, you believe in certain things, and you respond to that." 
CEO Lowe speaks to club 
they pay themselves last. An entrepreneur must be prepared to take his salary last. 
Besides performing market research and talking to poten­tial customers, it is important for an entrepreneur to have mentors and listen to their ad­vice.• 
The proof of success is in how much of a product is sold. In order to sell successful amounts, an entrepreneur must love sales, going door-to-door and selling banks on their bank plan. 
It is also vital, said Lowe, to get the business' accounting books set up correctly from the beginning. 
A successful entrepreneur must learn to delegate his time, as it is his most precious asset. In addition it is always impor­tant for one to learn form his mistakes. 
An entrepreneur must realize the difficulty of finding quality people to work for his company. In the end, said Lowe, the only thing an entrepreneur can count on is his own individual persistence and enthusiasm. 
, .·........•.••. Federal 

ors who want Gen­erll.......·otor:s CotJ!\<'to recall ~,7 JnOJion .piC<l'llp trucks be­. of rut alleged fuel tank ·~e]9oijng at rust as a 
p . le cause, a newspaper r~poroo~Jijursday, -c:nt,' 
X · atio.g.a.l'. Highway Tratfic • a.fety Administration is trying t0 determine wh~the.t: fuel tanks on GM's ·1973-87 trucks are more prone to corrosion than tanks .on ¢omparable ForrtMotor 
·Co. mo«lels, The Detroit News l'eported. Citing new doc­Uments on flle at the agency.
'j::.'": .,:.; '.::::::>' . 
So fa.f,.·NHTSA has focused pn the placementof the fuel tanks outside the truck's protective frame· rails. The agency claims the outboard placement makes them more prone to be struck, puncture 
. ~nd explode in sjde~impact collisions. :'t.. GM has tefused to·· recall 'the trucks~ saying the design is safe arld that it met the federal safety standard for side impactcollisions. , , . 
::, ··· .:-::. ·· =·;,-.,,...,,, .. ==+r=:-~-: -,=· =-~:mtt:·· 

A ln a .rec~~t letter. NHTSA ·. ~sked Spectra Premium· In~ dustries Inc., North America's largest $llpplleri' ofc\l't~,; pl8.c e~trueLtanks, .fo:,_; jillor on" oil 'the :ruSt per~ rorrnanee (lf GM and Ford truck k$ · · · News rt)~ porte i . •• ... ··...·.. tNi 
NHTSA asked the Montreal ~OrnPa#Y ,for data on sal~s of replacementtanks. ill pal't to determine if GM'sttuck tanks 
ar~. repla@d tllore frequently because of rust than tanks in Fords. +iS 
If that turllS out to be true, . would obvi(msly be a hint that ~~er~·s a. 9orrosion probhhn}' · said William Boehly. NHTSA's associate administrator for enforce­
>ment.· 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, April 23, 1993 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box a, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ..•.•.... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ••••••Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager •.•.•.Staph Goldman Sports Editor ••••••••••.George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor ...•.•...••.••••Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ...•....•...• Patrick Barth Photo Editor .......•....•••••••.... Jake f>eters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, le«ers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through le«ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
PCC: Politically Correct Catholicism 
In re: Recommendation 1 of the Report of the Committee on Academic life for the Colloquy, "All who participate in hiring faculty must be cognizant of and responsive to the need for dedicated and committed Catholics to predominate in number among the faculty." 
Sed contra: As a communi­cant of the Holy Roman Catholic Apostolic Church, I am obliged to find Recommendation 1 to be totally preposterous -indeed a historical. It, Recommendation 1, gives Roman Catholicism a very bad name, to say the Least. It seems, to be charitable, blatantly parochial as opposed to catholic. As a criterion for appointments in a primitive seminary or monastery, this recommendation "might" at best be valid. 
However, as a prescription for a totally catholic academic community (college/university), Recommendation 1 is insulting and a historical to "friends of the work" whose faith resides in diverse yet meaningful aspects of the great Graeco­Judeo-Christian Tradition -it an heterogeneous one rooted in a vast array of spiritual, moral and intellectual inspirations 
(e.g. Greek-Jewish-Christian, inter alia, Arabic, Asian, African thought. Yes, St. Au­gustine was of African origin). 
J. J. Carberry 
Pariah in Residence 
Given the most generous translation of Recommendation 1, are we then to deny a faculty post to a Maimonides in favor of a Tetzel? Deny a Sidney Hook in favor of some species of a Phil Donahue or Sister "Madonna"? Deny a Gertrude Himmelfarb in favor of a Mary Daly or Ann Quindlen? 
Who of the above is a "friend of the work" -a task which the great, sainted Professor Frank O'Malley described as that of "redeeming the times". 
We redeem not the times by capitulating to the more primi­tive, naive, though popular nostrums of political correct­ness -whether secular or transcendental. On the latter, more anon. 
A signal portion of this ad­ministration has surrendered to the most egregiously banal notions of a university per se, and now the most puerile con­cepts of Catholicism. 
Social concerns (legitimate ends) are fostered with scant regard for the substance of in­tellect which is the means nec­essary for the true realization of noble ends. 
Sports concerns (again legit­imate ends) have been deni­grated to bargain basement greed ... means scarcely com­mensurate with the concept of the university as a House of Intellect, Body and Spirit ­once revered but now distorted cavalierly by a simplest perver­sion of :·For God, Country and Notre Dame". 
The mindless dogmas of PC (Politically Correct) have at du Lac been "baptized" as PCC (Politically Correct Catholicism). 
This, the University of Notre Dame du Lac, is becoming naught but a pious, mindless College of Social and Sports Concerns with, if Recommen­dation 1 is not summarily re­jected, an academic appendage presided over by Catholic Cot­ton Mathers whose parochial­ism gives the Inquisition a good name, indeed. 
Recommendation 1 of the Committee on Academic Life for the Colloquy, is, whilst pleasing to the feeble minds of "Politically Correct Catholics", naught but an insult to the very notion of a catholic Catholic university and as such, an egregious distortion of Roman Catholicism. 
(Hier steh lch!) 
(Wo stehen Sie?) 
James John Carberry is a Professor of Chemical Engineer­ing at the University of Notre Dame. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Weapons are not the cure for 'corrupt' nations 
Dear Editor, 

I am writing in response to John Davenport's letter "European Development Needs Examination, Action" (April 14, 1993) in which he condemns the war in former Yugoslavia and compares the Serbs in their warfare to the Nazis. So far, so good. But when he urges the "European Unity" (EU) to take military action against the Serbs (and also against Neo­Nazis all over Europe) things get a little more complicated. 
It is his rhetoric that bothers me, such as the initiative," To purify American from the rotting corruption we had fought the Civil War." 
Oh, so the killing was a purification! And I guess this cleansing was successful or else we would still have the K.K.K. or politicians like David Duke, right? And how comforting to know that the enemy, who comes of course from the outside, can so easily be identified, isolated and extinguished! What Mr. Davenport is watching now is "the corruption of the very spirit of Europe." 
Being from Western Europe, it surprises me to see how homogeneously Europe is perceived in this statement and how in Mr. Davenport's head all Europe finds itself united by a spirit. This essentialist discourse is dangerously close to the very rhetoric that is produced out of the nationalistic ideology against which Mr. Davenport ostensibly writes. His call for "military steps" to "cure" the "disease" reiterates the pseudo­arguments with which many warfarers, including the Serbs, 'justified' their attacks. 
And although Mr. Davenport has found the root of all wars: "overconfidence" he does not shy away from what seems to me a rather over-confident "message from me to the peoples of Western Europe." 
Moreover, what he asks for is a participation of the EU in the war. Most astonishingly, Mr. Davenport claims that such an expansion of the war will prove that Western Europe is "fit to hold a place among civilized nations." Apart from factual mistakes in his letter, his suggested solution to the Balkan war -or, as he put it -his "cure" for a "highly infectious disease" is precisely a continuation of nationalist and essentialist rhetoric and, most irritatingly, a clarion call to war. 
Let me be so presumptuous as to conclude with a personal wish-list from me to all the Davenports: "Please be more aware with which rhetoric you align yourself; don't fool yourself into believing that there is a truly good essence or spirit of one nation or another and one which, if corrupted, has to be cured by weapons; and don't fool yourself into believing that war is a pragmatic inevitability. 
Burghard Zlimnig Graduate Student April 15, 1993 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Opinions cannot survive if one has no chance to fight for them." 
Thomas Mann 

Get up, stand up, stand up and submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 

-.....--------~~-------·-------~-------~-----------------------------------....., 
Viewpoint
Friday, April 23, 1993 page 11 
Abortion's reality does not read like a fairy tale 
The sanctity of life is not a furtive sex and even more home on the lurching South parents. The inside of her new issue. A quarter-century furtive abortions. Shore. womb was so badly torn and ago, taking the lives of post­Sex was generally kept on the Others jumped off dressers damaged, the doctor told her,
Pete Peterson 

born Vietnamese people was venial sin level. That is, sex was and lept down stairwells. They that she might never conceive national policy, while taking the only mildly sinful if you were Beyond Freedom Rock followed scalding baths with icy another child. lives of pre-born American swept away by passion, but was showers. They ate all sorts of The College knew only that people was illegal nearly ev­a mortal sin if you willingly lept could have an abortion. It was toxic home remedies, hoping to she was sick and missed some erywhere. into bed. a problem pregnancy, the prob­induce miscarriage. classes. Her close friends 
There were hundreds of I don't recall any of us lem being that, instead of in­And, in case you think it is all thought she had been hospital­thousands of people who felt reasoning it out on that heriting the looks of a beautiful apocrypha and fairy tales, I ized after a spontaneous abor­post-born Vietnamese were theological level, but I think Saint Mary's sophomore and once held a Saint Mary's stu­tion. Her hometown honey re­worthy of protection. There that, subconsciously, it's why the brains of a Notre Dame pro­dent while she sobbed out the fused to help with her medical were hundreds of thousands of we didn't use birth control. fessor, there was a chance the story of how she had longed for bills, as he had refused to help people who felt a woman had a Planning implies full consent of poor child might end up with her period after Spring Break, with the pregnancy. Her par­right to decide whether or not the will, and we preferred to be her judgment and his ethics. how she had panicked, how she ents never knew a thing. she would bear a child. swept away. Though I couldn't help, some­had tried this and that, and Today, there is no reason for 
Oddly enough, they were This, of course, led to occa­one else arranged a discreet finally -"if it weren't for all any of that. A young woman many of the same people. It sional difficulties, and anyone trip somewhere or other. those jokes about coat hang­who dares not confide in her was a question not so much of who thinks abortion began with I'm sure many Saint Mary's ers..."-went into a bathroom parents or lover can go to a the sanctity of life as it was of Roe v. Wade is being silly. Roe v. students made similar journeys, in Le Mans late at night and clean, professional clinic where the sanctity of people's rights to Wade merely brought the or arranged with their family proceeded upon an act of self­she can be shouted at, prayed declare their own values, statistics out into the open. I doctors for a quiet D&C. But not butchery that nearly took two over and blocked from enter­rather than having the knew several Saint Mary's stu­everyone was able to make lives. ing, just as, in our day, those government decide what lives dents who left school because those contacts. I knew one She was hurried to Memorial who wanted to interview for were to be protected, what lives they were pregnant, but I knew young woman who went all Hospital by friends, jobs with war industries were were expendable and what many more who did not. over Chicago, looking for a hemorrhaging heavily, and shouted at, prayed over and lives were to be terminated. I remember being asked if I recreational park with trampo­used her fake ID to obtain med­blocked from entering the 
As one of the expendables, I knew where a friend of a friend lines, then miscarried coming ical care without informing her Placement Bureau. felt the Catholic Church was 

Jl!la!!!!••••••••••••••••·~··••ll The difference, of course, is
worse than useless to me in this that conservatives did not debate. The Church refused to praise those who blocked the come out with solid guidance doors of recruiting offices, but on how draft-age male condemned their opposition to Catholics should deal with democratic principles and de­Vietnam, but was very definite manded their expulsion and
1 
about what we should be not be prosecution. doing in the bedroom. Also, as far as I know, none of 
I found it difficult to gain those who were intimidated spiritual solace from a Church from interviewing with Dow that left me to decide for myself Chemical went home in fear under what circumstances I and despair to twist the ends of should kill people but didn't wire coat hangers up into their trust me to decide when it was wombs. okay to have sex with them. 
1 
The University having a defi-I Pete Peterson '71 is reader­nite Catholic character, ques-l1 ship services manager with the 
tions of birth control and abor-Press Republican, a daily tion weren't raised at Notre newspaper in Plattsburgh, New Dame. Predictably, we had __ York. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Are we living in a land where justice is a 'dangerous' game? 
minorities could not accept the the monstrous beating of Regi­inevitably lead us to the thirteenth, fourteenth and Dear Editor: fact that the officers might have nald Denny, the destruction conclusion that John Gotti and fifteenth amendments, Brown been innocent, Mr. de Aguiar endured by Korean store own­others like him should be versus the Board of Education, 
The ongoing polemic over the attributes to them a ers and countless other victims acquitted simply because their the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 Rodney King trial has reached rudimentary sense of justice, of last years riots. If this "odor convictions would cause tur­and '65 and many other steps the epitome of its absurdness logic and basic human decency. of hatred" does exist then it is moil. which were taken in a peaceful with Rolando de Aguiar's Inside It is ridiculous to think that mi­clearly a two-way street that However, this country has and legal manner. History has Column in The Observer of norities are incapable of han­goes far beyond the outcome of always prided itself on not tak­shown us that equality can only April 14, 1993. Mr. de Aguiar dling an innocent verdict in a any one trial. ing the easy way out and our be achieved by working within insinuates that the jurors in the mature, civilized and rational legal system has survived for the system and not by rebelling trial should sacrifice the police fashion. Yet, my biggest problem with over 200 years because of this against it. officers in an attempt to avoid Furthermore, Mr. de Aguiar Mr. de Aguiar's article is the principle. If we abandon this further mutiny in Los Angeles. insinuates that the "odor of ha­rather warped sense of justice principle now, we will undoubt­We now know that officers For a number of reasons this is tred" to which he refers is en­which he presents. Whether he edly set ourselves on a slippery Koons and Powell were con­a dangerous and foolish argu­tirely the fault of the police offi­likes it or not, the American slope leading to even greater victed. We can only hope that ment. cers, the L.A.P.D, or white system of justice "has" survived injustices, many of which will the jurors arrived at their deci­
Mr. de Aguiar and his cohorts people in general. However, if 200 years, precisely because of be perpetrated against the sion based on the officers' ac­in the liberal media elite con­rioting is the inevitable result of a commitment to the sanctity of same minorities Mr. de Aguiar tions and not the warped fear tribute to the likelihood of fur­an innocent verdict, regardless law and an idea that all men seeks to defend. that an acquittal would result in ther rioting by assuming that of whether the officers are in­and women are created equal further rioting. Despite Mr. de chaos will inevitably occur if the nocent or not, then this speaks inside the courtroom. Although it has had its imper­Aguiar's claims to the contrary, officers are found to be inno­negatively towards the black Although it does have imper­fections, the system has helped legal decisions must never be cent. In doing so, Mr. de Aguiar community's attitude toward fections, and perhaps last year's minorities more than it has hurt made on the basis of conse­is implying that the only white people in general. trial was one of them, we must them. It is impossible to believe quences, but only on the facts reasonable response to an in­Just as we cannot forget the never abandon these principles that minorities could have presented in the case. Any nocent verdict is to return to video taped beating of Rodney for the sake of appeasement. achieved the sense of equality other criteria would lead us to a the violence, destruction, may­
King, we must also not forget Mr. de Aguiar's logic would that they now enjoy without the Stalinist society in which legal hem and criminal activity which decisions are made arbitrarily followed the previous trial. and without any regard to jus­
This argument is dangerous tice. because it condones the idea that a violent response is ap­In such a society, outcomes propriate when one does not are always decided on the basis get his/her way. By hyping the of political expediency. Based 
trial and assuming the on his logic, it appears that it is inevitability of riots,the media, such a repressive and chaotic symbolized by Mr. de Aguiar, society in which Mr. de Aguiar only increases the likelihood would prefer us to live. How­that these riots will occur not ever, I believe that if Mr. de just now but whenever any so­Aguiar found himself in a situa­called disadvantaged group is tion where it was within "the perceived as being treated un­best interests of society" to fairly. convict him of a crime which he 
A second fault with Mr. de did not commit, that he would Aguiar's argument is that he is likely realize the absurdity of drastically misinterpreting the his logic. racial question in this country. He degrades all minorities by Glen Hoffman implying that they have no in­Fisher Hall terest in justice, only in April 18, 1993 vengeance. In assuming that all 
r-------------_....,---------~-----~---~ ---~~­

weekerrlcalerrlar 

y 
MUSIC 
Duke Robillard, 10 p.m., Madison Oyster Bar 
EVENTS 
AI Franken, 8 p.m.,Stepan Center $3 Recess, An Tostal, 9:30-11:30 p.m.,Stepan Center Rocky Horror Picture Show, 1 a.m.,Stepan Center Julius Caesar, 8:10p.m., Washington Hall $7 

ay 
MUSIC 
William Clarke, 10 p.m., Madison Oyster Bar Blues Traveler, 8 p.m., Stepan Center $5 EVENTS Julius Caesar, 8:10p.m., Washington Hall $7 
s 
y 
EVENTS Julius Caesar,3:10 p.m., Washington Hall $7 

Snlte Malcolm X, Friday and Saturday, 6 and 9:45 p.m. 
Unlv. Park East The Crush, 7 and 9 p.m. The Crying Game, 7 and 9:15p.m. Jack the Bear, 7:20 and 9:25 p.m. A Few Good Men, 8 p.m. Cop and A Half, 7:30 and 9:40p.m. 
Unlv. Park West Advetures of Huck Finn, 7 and 9:20 p.m. Strictly Ballrome, 7:45 and 9:40 p.m. Scent of a Woman, 8 p.m. 
l
So many thing~ 
I 

Tropical paradise finds its way to South Bend 
By TONY POTTINGER 
Accent Writer 

Seeking a tropical paradise but don't want to pay the air­fare? If so, the Hawaii Club's Annual Luau may be just the the thing you're looking for. 
Hula dancing, traditional singing, and a raffie round out Saturday evenin,g from 7 to 9 p.m., in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. 
For Notre Dame's Hawaiian students, the luau provides an important opportunity to reaffirm their cultural identity in faraway South Bend. 
Saturday night's event will allow the Notre Dame commu­nity to experience an often 
'The Luau serves as an invaluable and refreshing social 
chang  for  the  
students  in  the  
Hawian Club.'  

-Rob Nobriga 
misunderstood culture as well as raise funds for local charities sponsored by the Hawaii Club. 
Keeping with the cultural 

elements of the Islands' traditional feast and celebration, the luau will blend old customs and those of contemporary Hawaiian cultural life. 
Much of the folk dances which will be performed at the luau precedes Captain Cook, whom is considered the "discoverer" of the island chain. 
"We want to have traditional elements but with modern things as well," said Rob Nobriga, newly elected president of the club. 
Island foods will be served as well. All foods have been sent from the islands and are native recipes. Pineapples and poi, a type of root which serves as the Hawaiian's staple, will be served in addition to more ex­otic dishes such as kalua pig. Kalua pig is a native specialty which is covered in tea leaves and cooked in a hole dug into the ground. 
"The luau serves as an in­valuable and refreshing social change for the students in the Hawaii club. Often, we lind our­selves forgetting that we arc in South Bend," explains Nobriga. 
With most island students unable to return home other than for Christmas and summer breaks, "the luau enables us to keep the homesickness at a minimum by hanging out with the local guys and girls," he said. 
'Blues' trave 
By ROB ADAMS 
Accent Writer 
The widely acclaimed blues 
rock band Blues Traveler will be 
bringing their eclectic and 
exciting show to the Stepan 
Center on Saturday night at 8:00 
p.m. 

Led by the charismatic singer/harmonica virtuoso John Popper, the concerts of Blues "'''raveler are characterized by jam-filled extended versions of their hits and brotherly communal vibes spewing from 
the exuberant crowd. 
Other musicians in the band 
are guitarist Chan Kinchla, 
bassist Bobby Sheenan, and 
drummer Brendan IIiiI. 
Popper and Hill met as high 
school students in Princeton, New 
Jersey in 1983. Kinchla joined 
the band in 1986 and Sheenan 
joined in 1987. 
After high school, the quartet 
moved to Gotham, Manhattan 
and received inspiration from the 
Jazz Program at the New School 
of Social Research as well as the 
extensive Gotham club scene. 
They were originally known as 
"Blues Band" and began playing 
for keg parties at local colleges in 
1988. By 1989 they were known throughout the loved so mu debut LP. 
Filled with bass, funky guitars, thei major label mass appeal. a dense, alrnos fans all over th 
songwriting arrangement 
An inten followed. Europe and playing with Skynrd, the Band, the J Neville Bro Santanna. 
They we however, for the II.OR.D.I Developing over the sum Spin Do Panic, Bel Fleck tones, and the Aq With II.O.H. their arriva live acts in 
--~-~-~----------------------~~-----------,------~ 




~~----~_--.______ --~-.----------~--r-·----.--1
-_-_-_---_-­


"Our quarterback is going to have to carry our offense to 
a large extent." LOU HOLTZ Head Coach 
Sophomore Lee Becton's performance this spring has given him the edge at tailback. 
The Observer/David Hungellng 
By BRIAN KUBICKI Assistant Sports Editor 
The storm is over. The dis­play of Thunder and Lightning has passed over Notre Dame leaving the Irish looking for a break in the clouds. 
With the departures of last year's standouts, Heggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis, the Irish backfield was hoping that break might come during their spring practices. 
"The people we have now are at the same stage as Heggie Brooks before his senior season," offered backfield coach Earle Mosley as a comparison. "We're a very close knit group. We're not a unit of stars. We've had stars, but we've never had that attitude." 
According to head coach Lou Holtz, Lee Becton has secured the tailback spot with fellow sophomore Travis Davis to back him up. "(Becton) is not a flashy runner, but a very very solid runner, a very very consistent runner and plays well without the football," he said. 
Holtz gave Ray Zellars the nod at the fullback spot. 
''I'm trying to show I can be consistent and to show the coaches what I can do," 
,,, ~/ 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame 
Lou Holtz called Lake Dawson's spring, "the best by a Notre Dame reciever." 
; 
explained the sophomore of his spring performance. 
Holtz was quick to point out this is not in granite. Lytle and freshman Marcus Thorne will be battling for the second spot, as well as a possible starting spot. 
These positions are even less stable in light of the incoming freshman class. Both tailbacks, Randy Kinder from East Lansing, Mich. and Robert Farmer from Bolingbrook, Ill., were named to the Parade All-America team. At the fullback spot, Marc Edwards comes from Norwood, Ohio as the USA To­day player of the year for the state of Ohio. 
"Their biggest obstacle is learning what to do," said Mosley of the incoming fresh­men. 
Mosley said that the backs have focused this spring on avoiding turnovers (fumbles), and getting at least four yards on each carry during these practices. 
The Irish backs have not gone through this spring trou­blefree, however. Midway through the practice season, Lytle severely sprained an an­kle, and his is not listed in the depth chart for Saturday's Blue-Gold game. 
Dawson draws rave reviews 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
All eyes have been on the quarterback battle between Paul Failla and Kevin McDougal, but regardless of who is throwing the ball, Notre Dame has a talented group of receivers who can catch it. 
The loss of lrv Smith, Ray Griggs and Jerome Bettis took away three of Notre Dame's top pass catchers, but there is a solid crop of veterans returning, led by junior Lake Dawson. 
Dawson made the biggest splash this spring, securing a starting position. 
"Lake Dawson will start," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "He's had the best spring of any receiver we've encountered here." 
Dawson was quick to spread credit around for his 
Spring outlook on 

Line changes permanent 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Despite a variety of position changes, unsettled players, and injuries, the offensive line has emerged from spring in its normal position, as the strength of the offense. 
Aaron Taylor and Todd Nor­man completed successful transitions from starting guards to first team tackles, joining returning center Tim Huddy along the front five. 
Offensive line coach Joe Moore needed only to fill in the holes between his trio of vet­eran lineman, a task which is easier said than done. 
The left guard appeared to be set when freshman Will Lyell performed well in the early part of spring, but an ankle in­jury sidelined him for the later part of practice. Fifth-year se­nior Lance Johnson took ad­vantage of his chance, impress­ing the coaches in the final three practices. 
Johnson is penciled in as the starter going into fall but Lyell is not out of the equation. His ankle is only a slight sprain which should be fully healed come fall. 
No starter was named at right guard. Sophomore Mark Zataveski and freshman Dusty Ziegler will continue the battle they waged in spring during the fall. 
Zataveski started spring drills as the favorite, but gave way to Ziegler in the final few prac­tices. Ziegler moved over from tackle and has impressed in only a few days at guard. His footwork is considered the best on the team, but doesn't appear to be as aggressive as Zataveski. 
"Dusty Ziegler has a chance to be an outstanding football player, but Zataveski is an ex­cellent competitor so I wouldn't rule him out of that race as well," commented Holtz. 
"I need to work on my legs, keeping my feet under me, and my flexibility in the offseason," said Zataveski. "I improved a little in those areas this spring, but I need to keep improving." 

perfomance. ''I'd give a lot of credit to the offensive line. They did an excellent 
job  blocking  for  Kevin  
(McDougal)  and  Paul  
(Failla)," he said.  

The other starter hasn't been determined. Senior Adrian Jarell, junior Clint Johnson, sophomore Mike Miller and freshman Derrick Mayes will compete for the position. 
"It's wide open, we just can't pick a starter at the present time," Holtz said. "(Mayes) has a slight edge, but he needs to aquire some of Dawson's habits." 
Dawson made a habit of catching the ball last season, pulling in 25 passes for 462 yards and a touchdown to lead the Irish. And he continued his torrid pace this spring to stay ahead of the pack. Three tight ends remain in 
"Coach Holtz has never had a bad offense since he has been at NO." TIM RUDDY Center 

..~ 
7' 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Offensive tackle Aaron Taylor grabs a drink in between drills. 
Helping the development of the younger guards has been the presence of Taylor and Norman at the tackle spots and their ability to school thP younger players in the tech­niques of their old position. 
"By moving Norman and Taylor out, we were able to put two inexperienced players in between three veteran ," said Norman. "They have been able to help the younger players." 
Strong spring drills earned Jordan Halter the backup role behind Ruddy. He joins Leahy at second team right tackle, and Herbert Gibson or Mike McGlinn behind Taylor. · 
contention for the starting job this fall, led by junior Oscar McBride. Freshmen Leon Wallace, and Pete Chryplewicz will also contend for the job. 
"McBride has a slight edge over Wallace, but its unfortunate that Peter Chryplewicz missed much of spring," Holtz said. "All three players improved, but we need to make more improvement there." 
McBride was pleased with the strides each player made at tight end, and he is not concerned about the pressure of filling the big shoes of lrv Smith. 
"Irv is the best, and playing under him will eventually make you the best," McBride said. "There is no pressure because the coaches have confidence in us and we have confidence in ourselves." 
Kicker, 
punter
unsettled 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
With the upcoming gradua­tion of Craig Ilentrich, who earned Honorable Mention All­American honors this year from Football America, Notre Dame finds itself in need of a 
s o I i d 
replacement to take over the kicking Kevin

duties. 
This spring Pendergast revealed only two likely replacements Kevin Pender­gast and Drew Marsh. "They've both been doing fairly well this spring," said special teams coach Keith Armstrong. Pendergast has a slight edge over Marsh. The former soc­
cer player booted two field goals of 32 yards into a stiff wind in a scrimmage two 
weeks ago. 
"He (Pendergast) is pretty ac­curate and has a strong leg. That's why he's in the lead," continued Armstrong. "Marsh needs to work on his strength." 
The Irish can only look to walk-on Brent Boznanski to handle the punting duties. Though he has had good distance in pre-season drills, his hang time has been lacking. He will be chal!•mged by recruit Brian Ford in the fall. 


"It is no secret that our defense will be our strength." 
LOU HOLTZ Head Coach 
Spring outlook on 
"We didn't expect ­them to be that good this spring." Kevin McDougal Quarterback 
Bereich, Wynn earn jobs 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Hidden for three seasons in 
the shadow of Demetrius Du­
Bose, junior inside linebackers 
Anthony Peterson and Pete 
Bereich finally emerged from 
the darkness this spring. 
They anchored an Irish de­fense that has been dominant during spring practice. 
"We knew we could play well," Bereich said. "We picked up the defense pretty quickly in the spring and it was surprising how fast we came together as a group." 
The loss of DuBose and 
Brian Ratigan left some holes 
at linebacker, but Bereich and 
Peterson proved in spring 
practice that they can fill those 
holes. 
"Pete Bereich had an excel­lent spring and Anthony Peter­son is an outstanding linebacker," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "Bereich lacks the speed and he won't be able to do everything DuBose did, but he'll make us better in some other areas, and I think Peter­son is a very underrated player." 
Peterson is Notre Dame's top returning tackler, and he and Bereich are the only veterans with considerable playing ex­perience. 
"(Peterson) and I have both played a lot in the past, and we will have to be leaders on the field," Bereich said. "But the whole defense has been there before, except for Renaldo." 
That is freshman Renaldo Wynn, who made quite an im­pact at outside linebacker this spring, earning the starting spot heading into the fall sea­son. 
"Renaldo Wynn will be our outside linebacker," Holtz said. "He has definitely established himself there. He has great speed and he could be a very, very good football player." 
Sophomore Jeremy Nau and freshman Kevin Carretta will also compete for playing time at outside linebacker. 
"I am really pleased with our linebackers," Holtz said. "They have been a really pleasant surprise." 
Defensive 
Coordinator 
Rick Minter 
has spent the 
spring tuning a 
talented 
defensive unit. 
~Tackle Bryant Young and the rest of the defense have made a smooth transition to the 4-3 attack. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Young heads talented group 

By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Everyone has heard of the Four Horsemen. Now, it looks like the Notre Dame football team is going to have another feared foursome, but this time on defense. 
Defensive coordinator Rick Minter changed the Irish de­fense to best utilize the strength of the returning defensive linemen and switched to a four­mao line this spring, allowing the Irish to best use their talent on the line. 
With juniors Brian Hamilton, Bryant Young and Jim Flani­gan, Oliver Gibson and sopho­more Germaine Holden return­ing with signifigant playing time, the four-mao front will make sure that the bulk of that experience is on the field. 
Since instituted this spring, the 4-3 defense with its strong line has worked well in the spring practices and scrim­mages, but it has been just a small change for the linemen. 
"We really didn't change that much," said Irish defensive line coach Mike Trgovac. "We just changed words... Everything is easier. That's why we did it, to cut down on the mental and physical aspects, so they can perfect more techniques." 
So far the players have been pleased with the way the new line has worked this spring. 
"I think it's gone exceptionally well," said Flanigan. "The defense has been playing really good and I think it'll continue to do well." 
Flanigan, who started 10 games at nosetackle last fall, saw his position disappear in the new system, but has found his job to be easier now. 
"It's easier for me because I'm just playing on one side of the line rather than flip-flop­ping all the time," said Flani­gan. 
Hamilton has also liked the change. 
"It has helped us out a lot be­cause a lot of guys play now," said Hamilton. "Basically, it's the same." 
The Irish have the benefit of a number of talented replacements. Junior Oliver Gibson, and freshman Paul Grasmanis and Thomas KNight have shown to be capable backups. 
Although the defense and the line has been strong in spring scrimmages, there are still work to be done. Trgovac is looking for more consistency and he says although he has five players he feels confident with, he wants to find more back-ups. 
Hamilton agrees that consis­tency needs to be worked on. 
"We're still getting continuity. We need to keep continuity," said Hamilton. 
None the less, Trgovac is confident the line can handle it. 
"The great thing about them is the way they've worked hard. They know they have a long way to go," said Trgovac. 
Defensive backs all but set 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
As a tribute to their unique 
combination of experience arid 
talent, this spring the respon­
sibilities of the defensive sec­
ondary have evolved to the 
point that each member is 
deemed as "interchangeable." 
Defensive backs coach Joe 
Wessel has been able to take 
advantage of their strengths 
and avoid weaknesses this 
spring by having juniors Jeff 
Burris, Greg Lane, and John 
Covington, and freshman 
Bobby Taylor learn both the 
corner and safety positions. As 
a result, each has grown more 
aware of each other's roles on 
the field, and the group sees 
themselves becoming not only 
a strong, cohesive unit, but the 
strength of an outstanding de­
fensive fc Jtball team. 
"This defense is going to be a 
real strong point on this team," 
noted Lane, who collected 57 
tackles last season. "I think 
this is going to be the best 
defense that people have seen 
in a while." 
As of the present defensive 
alignment, Taylor and Lane are 
the designated as the safeties, 
whereas Burris and Covington 
are the safeties. However, con­
trary to how it has been in past 
years, there is really no desig­
nated field or wide corner, 
strong or free safety this year. 
"In this defense, we have 
more of a chance to run loose. 
I the past we've had to play 
like we're on a rope," noted 
Covington, "It lets you relax 
and do more. It lets you make 
more chances." 
Though each of the defensive 
backs are anxious to play 
under the new system, one 
would think that such a system 
would sometimes create 
match-up problems for the 
Irish defense. However, they 
are confident the defense can 
flourish under the new system. 
"We have confidence that 
we're going to put them in a 
situation where they can suc­
,
ceed," noted Wessel. "We can make situation changes, and they'll be capable of doing that. You can't put a barometer on what their experience brings to the defense." 


Blue appears to have edge 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN that head coach Lou Holtz and comes on defense where tackle Sports Editor staff have given McDougal a Bryant Young leads the defen­supporting cast which could sive effort. He has dominated It is a safe bet that Saturday's make that a possibility. the spring, and will be flanked 63rd annual Blue-Gold game The top two receivers at the by fellow starter up front Ger­will not resemble its predeces­end of spring scrimmages, Lake maine Holden at right end. The sor. Dawson and Derrick Mayes, will Gold boasts only one of the 
Last season fullback Jerome be McDougal's primary targets, three first-team linebackers, Bettis scored two touchdowns and first-team tight end Oscar but it may have the best in 1992 on his way to game MVP McBride also joins McDougal on starter Anthony Peterson. honors, leading the Blue to a the Blue squad. The Gold secondary looks 28-22 win. Despite rainy condi­If McDougal opts not to pass solid, with safety John tions, the game turned into an he can turn to starting tailback Covington and Bobby Taylor offensive battle. Hick Mirer Lee Becton, who was the most teaming with LeShane Saddler threw for 190 yards and two impressive back during spring and Mark Monohan. touchdowns, and Kevin Mc­drills. Offensively the Gold is a step Dougal ran for two touchdowns Protecting McDougal will be beneath the Blue, but the pres­for the Gold. the bulk of the first team offen­ence of fullback Ray Zellars and 
However. it has been the de­sive line. Tackles Todd Norman speedy tailback Travis Davis fense that has dominated spring and Aaron Taylor started last should provide an amble drills this year and it should season, and guards Lance ground attack. Failla has steal the show on Saturday. Johnson and Dusty Zeigler have flanker Mike Miller and experi­
McDougal is hoping for a re­come on strong late in the enced split end Adrian Jarrell peat performance, as he battles spring to challenge for starting as targets, as well as tight end Paul Failla for the starting roles. Leon Wallace. Center Tim quarterback job, and it appears The equalizer for the Gold Ruddy is the class of the offen­

l2 c: :>. ~ B
J a 
t:
~ ~ f~f 
-!!: a: ll:: € (I) 
e Cll (I) 
~ e C!l· F C!l w 
!' F ~ :r: 
rf: li: cr: . ' 0 _, t:; (J) 
WHEN BWE HAS THE BALL 

FB Rob Thome X ){ TB Lee Becton QB Kevin McDOugal
! ~ ~ .. i 
~ ~ l ~X~ }J ~ i ~ j ~ 
~X liX ~X ~X sx sX 


c: 
(I)
c: 
g' 5l ~ 
Q) as
::I .c :r: 
a t:
c. 
Q) ~
~ c:
~ Q; ·;;; as
c (J) 0
.2: E c:~ >-0 Q) .>
E ...,
m f-Q) C Bobby Taylor
~ a: w :.::
t:; Q)
..., a: 
m 
...J
m 
...J 
Saddler SS Brian Magee 
The Observer/Kevin Hardman camp begins on August 16. 
, Dual 
continued from page 1 
but neither looked impressive enough to put a stranglehold on the job. Holtz hinted towards a slight edge for McDougal but felt neither had played well 
... enough to dismiss thoughts of the other starting. "Kevin McDougal basically because he has been in the program a year longer would get the nod," said Holtz. "If we went into the situation with our football team the way it is right 
r· 
now one would start and the other would play. It would be a two quarterback situation. 
"Kevin probably throws the ball better, has more experi­ence and more arm strength. It is natural for him to be farther along because he has been in the system longer, but Paul has done some good things, and the team has responded to both of sive line, which also includes sophomore Mark Zataveski, a challenger for one guard spot. 
A lack of experience in the Gold offensive line should be tested by three first team play­ers on the Blue defensive front. Lineman Brian Hamilton and Jim Flanigan join linebackers Pete Bereich and Renaldo Wynn to form a imposing unit. Jeff Burris and Greg Lane anchor the Blue secondary. 
Kevin Pendergast will handle the kicking duties for the Blue, Drew Marsh and Brent Boz­nanski for the Gold. 
Holtz will watch from the press box, as his assistants do the coaching. Defensive Coor­dinator Rick Minter will head the Gold, while offensive Coor­~-­dinator Skip Holtz will call the signals for the Blue. 
"Truthfully., the game isn't the best thing for our players," said Holtz, "a scrimmage would be more beneficial. If it wasn't benefitting the scolarship fund of the Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph't Valley, we would have a scrimmage instead. 
"But we want our players to have fun, and we want to be able to evaluate how they perform in front of people," said Lou Holtz. 
All proceeds from the game benefit the Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph's Valley scholar­ship fund . 
Following the game, the team will not practice again until fall 
them." 
During the spring both play­ers have had their moments, but it has been more of a learn­ing process. 
"We have tried to get them better fundamentally," said Quarterbacks Coach Tom Clements, "and they have both improved over the course of ttie spring." 
The development of McDou­gal and Failla was hampered at times. Failla has had to con­tend with baseball practice and games, while McDougal missed the majority of one scrimmage and was slowed in another be­cause of an ankle injury. 
"Basically, I've been really run down, my arm hasn't had the pop," commented Failla. "It has also been very mentally taxing, but I am happy with the way I played." 
"The ankle feels good. I practiced on it Tuesday and it felt fine," stated McDougal. "I wish that I wouldn't have missed part of that one practice, but overall I feel that I performed OK." 
Their performance in Satur­day's Blue-Gold game will have some relevance, but for the most part the quarterback for the 1993 Irish will be deter­mined during fall drills. 
"We are going to bring them in (during the fall) and give ev­erybody a chance," added Holtz. "We are going to have to make decisions very early, and go from there." 
Come fall the quarterback equation will increase by two with the addition of prep starts Tom Krug and Hon Powlus. 
The lack of a number one quarterback entering fall camp only fuels speculation that Powlus, the naiton's top high school player, could come in and start. 
"The freshman will get an opportunity," added Holtz. 
Tt1e,~s~~":rJiiike'·-~t:~r-& 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz views his team during spring practice. 
':' 1' '-' R  l  :-'  Design: George Dohrmann  
l·  \  l  "  .\  Graphics: Kory Klem,Kevin Hardman  
Photo: Jake Peters  
'  I .\ l  l·  Production: Kevin Hardman  




o AnTostal to perform for students 
"I never really liked Blues Traveler's music from their CO's that much, but when I saw them in concert over this past December I thought they were phenomenal. Their show was amazing," said Sean Moran, a Cavanaugh resident. 
"We drew from our experi­ences of living in and around New York City," said Kinchla of the 
deeper in direction they took when writing Thieves, their most recent album, Save His ed their Soul. musical Although Save His Soul has not had enough time to tell whether touring or not it will be a big hit, the ­covered band is very optimistic about it. 
"The sessions got off to a really great start and it was natural and part of a maturing process to collectively produce this album," said Kinchla of the band's idea to produce this album by themselves. 
After all that time in the studio and off the road, Blues Traveler is ready to get back on the road and begin touring again. 
"We've really missed being out there for the last six months. We've got a really bad case of needing to play for people. We're all determined to keep on the road and out of the ditch," said Popper. 



-~------~---~---~--~-------------~-~-~-~--~..... 
...so little time 
Punk opera debuts at Saint Mary's 

By MATT CARBONE 
Assistant Accent Editor 
You've seen the signs plas­tered all over campus. 
Next to an illustration of a goofy-looking, beer-guzzling reptile are words urging you to "Experience Frogboy." 
Who, you ask, is Frogboy? 
"Frogboy is half frog, half boy," said James Kennedy, Sorin Hall sophomore and writer, director and producer of "Frogboy." 
Sure, but that doesn't really te II us anything we didn't already know. 
So there's more. 
Billed as a "rock music and drama spectacular," Kennedy describes "Frogboy" as "a punk rock opera -kind of like Fugazi meets The Cocktails meets 'Star Wars."' 
The idea for "Frogboy" was conceived by Kennedy and Joe Cannon, a Stanford Hall junior, before Christmas break. 
"It was [final] exam week and we wanted to waste time," said Kennedy. 
For two days, Kennedy, a member of the campus band Bother and disc jockey at WVFl, and Cannon, a member of the campus band Emily, sweated and pored over the "Frogboy" saga. 
Kennedy wrote the dialogue, while Cannon provided all of the songs. 
"The music isn't too terribly punk," said Kennedy. "It's kind 
'The music is not too terribly punk. It's kind of like lounge/ jazz/ hard core music. It's kind of hard to explain without seeing it in person.' 
-James Kennedy 
of like lounge/jazz/hardcore music." 
The opera centers around a conflict between a group of frogs and the toads who over­whelm them. 
The hero Frogboy then enters the picture, leading the frogs over the toads, then suffering a tragic fall as he becomes bloated with power. 
"It's a morality play I sup­pose," said Kennedy. "It's kind of hard to explain without see­ing it in person." · 
"Frogboy" will be staged April 25 at 9 p.m., at the Qalloway's Coffeehouse at Saint Mary's. 

Saint Mary's offers Holy Gross students the chance to transfer 
;.~Y ERIN ANJ:)ER§QN­
··tAccentwriter --· ·· 

. --~-_•-tcould be considered the best of both worlds. 
•-Pr~~~~~~~l~:;;~u~~~t~~h?~:~ec~~~g~!;~~~~ +Sa:in~Mary's_requirements to study !l.t Holy Cross and then,jf standards are mefto transfer to Saint Mary's the 
following year. · · ·_ ·· · This program is· :made possible by Mary Ann Rowan, who heads the program which began this year, This arrangement allows for the students to live on the Saint tvfary'scamp~s_and attend one class per semester at SaintMary'$,:while .also enrolled at Holy Cross. Regina Hall North houses these students in one section and provides them. with a J~~nse o{~ollllhul)ity. 
...._,·:::~=:==~f:Ji!t!il~,w:== ... ,..;:::m(:·:.:.: . '·':=:w~P·" 
"Living afSaint Mary's allows the students to feel comfortable with the other students in the residence halls and this opportunity makes the transfer to Saint-Mary's easier the following year," said admission counselor Denise Martin. 
Martin explained that this arrangement provides incentive for the students. The students get to be a part of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community while at the same time being a Holy Cross student. 
In order for the students to transfer to Saint Mary's the fol­lowing year. they must maintain a 3.0 grade point average each semester. 
If, at the end of th!'l school year, the students have fulfilled these requirements, they may transfer to Saint Mary's as full time students without reapplying. 
This option to enter the Linkage Program is not available to everyone. This program is only introduced to the students who demonstrate academic promise and a strong desire to become a Saint Mary's student. 
Martin said that very few applicants are offered this option and being that the 1992-93 school year was the first year it has been implemented, few accepted. 
As participants in the program, students must report to Brian Greve, academic advisor for Holy Cross, and also to Susan Vanek, the freshman academic advisor at Saint Mary's, as well. This advising serves as a basis for entry into the Saint Mary's community. · 
The program has been met with a positive response among the students involved in the program. 
"I feel that everyone involved has been given a wonderful opportunity," said Saint Mary's freshman Maureen Davis. "We have been warmly welcomed in to the Saint Mary's community. This program has made it possible for us to be­come the students we've wanted to be." 
The Linkage Program continues to grow as plans for next year's students increase. Promising applicants receive a brochure and a videotape outlining the program and provid­ing information, Martin said. 
"Speaking for others as well as myself. this program and the people involved have been very helpful and we think the Linkage Program is a wonderful idea," Davis added. 


....--------------------~---~---------------~----~---·--~-------------~~­
Page 14 
Living as a spiritual Semite brings one closer to th~·Y;;itfr 
In a footnote of his Bestiary, T.lf. White discusses the way 
good to the Hebrew children. guests that even when theyFor when God wants to judge a
elephants mate. Being so big, were celebrating, they should
Father Robert Griffin 
person's character, lie looks at
how do they get close enough? never forget the sufferings of the way that one treats the
Does the inamorata use a hole the Jews and the destruction offlock.
in the ground as a couch, so the Temple. His action is re­
that when her consort over­Defierslo a Bone(Y 9ocf When the time came for Moses 
peated today at every Jewish' shadows her, she falls within wedding, when the bridegroom
to die, God came down to earth the circumference of his em­under the canopy crushes ato hold the dying patriarch in
t 
His arms, and afterwards dug
brace? crystal goblet under his foot, as 
have spent His evenings going the grave with His own hands
Or does he like a bar of ivory King James a commemoration of Israel's 
around to the pubs, Why should to make it up to Moses for not
soap, float over her while she's Bible never call our attention to history of pain. 
this possibility detain us? allowing him to enter the
submerged in water? "As a the divine punning which runs 
~ecause the Gospels never say Promised Land. 
matter of fact," T.H. White through the Pentateuch, as a The Jewish artist Marc Chagall 
1f He laughed or smiled, and Jews love the Sabbath as
says," Elephants do it in the sign to the exegetes that the associates the suffering Jesus 
Christians over the centuries though it were Israel's bride
regular way, and rather more Lord has a funny bone. with suffering Jewry in a 
have wondered why. He must for God gave it to them as a day
gracefully than most." The rabbis, exploring the mind striking way. In a painting he 
have had a chuckle or two of rest when they were still
When the skeptic wants to of God as it is revealed in the calls "White Crucifixion," he 
when He was on a pub crawl slaves in Egypt. Their saints'
know how the Christian lives Torah, joyfully acknowledge His shows the crucified Christ sur­
and the Mogen David was flow­legends tell of rabbis who stood 
deep enough to suck out all the pleasantries with body lan­rounded by scenes from the marrow of life, the answer ing freely. guage that imitates the way a a foot taller when they were in pogroms-Jews killed, hunted 
Chesterton argues that as He the synagogue reading the
should be: "Be does it in the candle-flame burns in a drafty down, and driven away; syna­
went up on the mountains to room. Sabbath-day lessons. 
regular way, and as a matter of gogues burning, Torah-scrolls fact, he does it more gracefully pray, He must have gone there The Jews tell delightful stories But in the death camps, on desecrated. 
to laugh, leaving the disciples Simchat Torah when it was the
than most." He can manage this to show the human side of God. In Chagall's painting, Jesus is 
behind, because they might custom for the rabbi to dance
by daring to live as a spiritual Why did He choose Moses to be on the victims' side. "Naked and 
have underestimated Him if holding the scrolls of the Torah
Semite, as the Popes have His Numero Uno among the exposed, his only covering is 
they saw Him acting like a in his arms, he might pick up a
urged Catholics to do. patriarchs? Because Moses was the vestment worn by Jews at 
stan(j-up comic, or doing his child to dance with instead,
Unfortunately, anti-Semitism so inquisitive when he saw the prayer. He has become the 
shtick as a baggy-pants come­because he had no scrolls. The
h~s been from the begin­Burning Bush, for God dearly exemplar of the suffering, re­mng,the original sin of the dian. loves an inquisitive mind. Lord would be well-pleased jected Jews ...And what must be 
Christians worried over with the substitution, the sages
Church. How long will Chris­And when Moses as a lad understood is that the tradition 
whether their Saviour was felt, because the child was holy
tianity continue to shoot itself in tended sheep for his father-in­of Jewish faith tested by sull'er­the foot? poker-faced might be relieved law, he noticed a lamb breaking like the Law and the Prophets, ing, of which (Christians
to know that in the tradition in and an heir to the promises that 
For some time, the rabbis and away from the flock, and went say}Jesus is the high point, did 
which Jesus was raised, an on­were made in the Covenant. 
scholars have been publishing in hot pursuit of it over hill and not die out with the birth of the 
going awareness of the joy and Jews hold the past in remem­
books to show us the richness dale. Finally, the lamb stopped Christian Church. 
laughter of God came with the brance as a moveable feast;
of their tradition; Christianity, at a quiet stream to drink the Jesus, therefore, must be
territory. praying at the Wailing Wall,
in this century of its water, and Moses waited recognized as the associate of 
Rabbi Neusner, in his dozens they are close to the Holocaust
impoverishment, needs to patiently for the creature to all Jews that have unjustly suf­
of books on Judaism, tells us of and other pogroms. Once long
become acquainted with the re­finish. Then he said, "Little fered in the course of the ligion which produced Jesus as the scholars in the yeshivas lamb, I didn't know you ran ago at a royal wedding, which Christian era. 
studying the Law and the was a catered affair, the bride­
a believing Jews whom-we need away because you were thirsty.
Prophets, discovering wit and groom-king sprang up from the
to know better. Putting the Jamb on his Daring to live as a spiritual
word-play in the Hebrew text banquet at which the guests 
He taught daily in the Temple, shoulder, he carried it back to Semite could bring you close to the Gospels say; but from the which convinces them that the the flock. were rejoicing. Seizing a the ancient, heart stirring faith 
Master of the Universe has a precious goblet enlaid with
way He was accused of being a The sages say that when God to which we all owe a debt, and 
lovely sense of humor. The jewels, he smashed it to the
friend to drunkards, He must saw how kind Moses was to the it could leave you born again as 
translators of the m ficent ground as a reminder to his
lamb He knew he would a Christian. 
With Congratulations and Joy we celebrate 
Brother Pedro Haering, C.S.C• 
and his 50 years as a Holy Cross Brother. Thanks for the education and the memories. 
-
John & Jim Maurer 
Regret we can't be in South Bend tomorrow. 
Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer page 15 
"I had flashbacks," said coach home runs and 2 RBI's. "We're tired, but we have to contest. Miller. "But we pulled together, do what we have to do," said "We'll get fired up for Detroit,
Softball 
and we were able to shut them After traveling to Bowling Miller. "It will be a factor, but because they're the defending down and score." Green and Loyola in the past we'll get through the weekend." champs," said Alford. "We'll be
continued from page 24 
Connoyer continued her hot two days, the Irish will continue Detroit Mercy comes into the ready." hitting with a 3-4 performance their road trip to Evansville this game as the defending MCC As for Kobata, she'll pitchYesterday, they were able to in the second game. She fin­weekend when they face champion, and Evansville again Saturday and try to con­push across a run in the ninth ished the day 5-8 with two Evansville and Detroit Mercy. brings a young team into the tinue her perfection.
inning on a Rambler error. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 50,000,000 Babies 3-5 person furnished house, sec NO Ski Team T-Shirts Doctor and teacher will make Two Pangborn Freshman system, wash/dry, beach V-ball, Only $10!! Call John at x1160 dreams for your baby come true. seek pick-up truck and driver to ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER prime location. $500. 109 N. St. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; help transport belongings to storage TYPING 256·6657 AND NEXT YEAR. PLEASE CALL Peter, 233-9947. summers by the beach. Your baby on 4/25/93. please don't make us 289-9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE. TICKET-S rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace walk .... call x2348 $$$ Kim and Meg rock the world! FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, in winter, and by ocean waves in 
I need a large backpack for KITCHEN, PHONE, Help!Help!Help! I need grad tickets! summer. Art, music, the best PITI CLUB STILL needs someone March on Washington for lesbian, summer travel in Europe !! 5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS. If you have extra call Joe @ 277-education, endless love. Call to organize luggage truck or it will gay and bisexual equal rights and call x3604 272-0615. 4273. Franny or Stephen collect. not be available-call 4828 if 
liberations. We will be there! Look (212) 369-2597. interested for our banner and our NO apparel. SUBLETTING 1 room in a 2 Bdrm I NEED 2 RETURN FLIGHTS
FOR RENT Apt 4 summer. Exc Cond, Central FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO. Grolsch Hall Presents: Dissertations, Theses, AC, Walk to campus,$150/mo. 277-SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON "golf'golf'golf'golf'golf'golf" The Deflowering Term Papers Need a place to stay this 9074 MAY23 $'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$' Word Works Typing Service summer? CALL RICH, 631-5370 She cuddled it in her palm 277·7406 Turtle Creek Townhouse WIN PRIZES! Admiring its unusual form. 
Available for Sublet FOR SALE Sign up for the Then grabbing with one hand, Call 634-3938 DESPERATELY SEEKING TODD BROSKI BENEFIT She gave its bulging head 
ILOST & FOUND I 
GRADUATION TICKETS!! GOLF TOURNAMENT The mightiest of blows, 
SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 LIVING OFF-CAMPUS? Gram and Gramp are coming Sending a cloud of whiteness LOST: Colored Gold Bracelet bdrms, close to campus, safe NEED FURNITURE? and I need 2 tix. Please call Saturday, May 8, 1993 Streaming into the air during Christmas in April. Great neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all WE HAVE IT ALL! I Kristin at 4-4272 if you have $1 0 Student entrance fee In search of fertile places Sentimental Value!!!!!Reward. Call utilities. Call Monica CALL 273-2810 any extras, and name your $35 Staff/Public entrance fee To grow more dandelions. Karen 2608 232-2794. price. by Quiver 
Cathedral ceiling and open living Sign ups at the Lafortune LOST-PAIR OF GLASSES OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENTI areas in this new 1350 sq. ft., 3 I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC Information Desk, the Pro WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB In a dark leather case , Feb 26 1 Br w/loft, 2 Bth, fireplace, bedroom, 2 bath ranch. Just 3 GRADUATION(IN CASE OF RAIN). Shop(behind the Rock), orwith a BAGGAGE TRUCK HOME around Cushing Hall area. WID, garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill blocks east of ND campus and built PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399. Dorm representative PLEASE! Help me have them or Caroline at by CRESCENT HOMES. LOADING TIMES before the summer. I don't have $ for 317-297-8485. 273-2754. I have extra commencement ENTER NOW! THURSDAY-MAY 6 new ones! tickets FRIDAY· MAY 7 Any info please call X4367 Turtle Creek townhouse OAKHILL CONDO -Close to Call Bobby 273-WOGG ••other donations accepted (12:00 P.M.-5:00P.M.) 
SUZANA 6/1-mid-Aug. campus, 1,900 sq.ft., 4 bdrm, 3 and appreciated 
Furnished -$400/mo bath, LIKE NEW. Great place to "all proceeds to defer medical N. QUAD-STEPAN COURTS LOST LOST LOST Matt 634-3332. live. Excellent investment costs for Todd) S. QUAD-LYONS COURTS Lost MO afternoon either in front of opportunity. Asking $83,750. Like 5000 others, I too NEED $'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$' ???????QUESTIONS?????? stadium (E side) or in front of 273-9204. ••golf'golf'golf'golf'golf'golf' CALL PAT CADY(#3580) Library (S side, TO. J) :DIGITAL Looking to sublet this summer? GRAD TIX II But I' m a swell DIARY, Casio SF 4000, of personal Contact x1505 about space Great Loft For Sale value to me, please call: x6609 at Turtle Creek. $45 guy, so call KJ @ 273-2958 &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 (am) or 273-8938 (pm) (Volker) x3604 in Lafortune Student Center 
Summer sublet: furnished PLAY ANTOSTAL TRIVIA QUALITY COPIES Found: 2 bdrm house near campus trivia antostal play as low as 3¢ each 4-17-93 women's ring found in 02 AC, nice yard, $300 One SMC Approved White One way tkt from South Bend to PLAY ANTOSTAL TRIVIA OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK parking lot. Call Maureen@ 4-4711 Dave 232-7970 Lolli! Newark,NJ on May 17:$100 to claim Please buy it because I or best offer. Call 289-4278. &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD 
2 ROOMS W/QUEEN BEDS AVAIL. need cash ..now! You name BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF 
'Lost at Senior Formal in GRAD WKEND.NICELY DECOR. 3 the price ..call Nicole x.5193 Xtra grad tix TOURNAMENT ON SAT. MAY 8 Chicago• 1 roll of completed MIN. TO CAMPUS. ADULTS OVER Call Val 273-9092 OPEN TO ALL film with 2 months of pictures • 30 PREF. $170/WKEND/ROOM. PIG TOSTAL V -PUBLIC SIGN UPS AT THE PRO EXTREME sentimental value­277-8340. One Way Ticket. May 9 I need extra graduation tix! SHOP BEHIND THE ROCK if found, PLEASE call Mary at SOUTHBEND to BOSTON Please call Kathryn at x2999 -1\ -I\. -STUDENTS SIGN UP AT THE 4619! APARTMENT FOR SUMMER $200, or Best Offer. x2601 + + LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE 
2 brm furn.,rent $100.mo. HELP ! If you have any extra (II) -GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS Avail. 5/1 0 -8/9 Must be stud. GRADUATION TICKETS, please 0 I Ph. 271 8900 AIRLINE TICKET FOR SALE call 273 -2941
WANTED 
ask for Rob 

Good until 9/23/93 FEATURING ... SUMMER JOBS Round Trip South Bend­FREDDY JONES BAND! ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS ROOM FOR RENT, Privacy, Util. anywhere you want PERSONAL SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS incl., Must see, Male preferred, ph (female preferred, but not a must) SEE ALL YOU PIGS THERE!! I BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 291-9093 Call x6609 (am);273-8938(pm) Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal TOURNAMENT!!! NEAR LAKE PLACID Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological SUMMER STORAGE CALL 1-800-786-8373. Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN Convenient, Secure Location SATURDAY MAY 8 
87 Chevy Nova for sale by senior 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. Reasonable Rates 287-0918 OPEN TO ALL INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­who is moving to NYC and can't Make money teaching basic Don't stay on-campus this afford to keep it there. Excellent Are you interested in living in n~n~n~n~QFn~n~n~n~n~ SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN conversational English abroad. summer-SUB-LEASE our 2-bdrm. shape, air cond, pull out stereo, 40. DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See Hello Folks!!! AnTostal Trivia is BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000-apt. at CASTLE POINT! $3000 or b.o.. Call Mike at 271-Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon BACK!!! YOUR DORM REP $4,000+ per month. Many provide 0157. @ 271-1938. AnTostal Trivia AnTostal Trivia room & board + other benefits! No Enjoy air-conditioning, a pool, and AnTostal Trivial! GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!! previous training or teaching REDUCED RENT!! Adopt: we are truly loving couple 
·­

certificate required. For International APARTMENT SALE who can bring love and happiness WINNERS receive ANTOSTAL T· Employment program. call the CALL NOW 4-4673 sofa-sleeper, double beds, to your white newborn. We offer SHIRTS and CUPS. International Employment Group: dressers, end-tables, kitchen table, financial security and a great future 
~ 

(206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. desk, TV/stereo stand in our oceanside home. RULES: play play play play play play 
1 blk from NO Apts. Safe, "priced to sell" Medical/legal expenses covered. 1· 1 )place answers to the questions ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT affordable, furnished apts. call mark@ 271-1578 800-438-6599 eves. below on a piece of paper TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA antost -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in At 755 South Bend Ave.: 2)include your name and telephone al TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA ant canneries or $4000+/month on STUDIO: $215 number fishing boats. Free transportation! 1-BDRM: $245 FURNISH YOUR OFF CAMPUS ATIN: SUMMER SCHOOL 3)turn into box at Lafortune Info play play play play play play Room & Board! Over 8000 2-BDRM: $330 APT. !I STUDENTS Desk by 6 pm today 
III\I\NV\N\IV\I 

openings. No experience 4)10 WINNERS will be drawn at necessary. Male or Female. For At 607 E. Corby: Entire living room and dining room $5.50 Haircuts random from correct entries HI employment program call 1-206-1 BDRM: $265 set for sale. VITO'S BARBER SHOP received 545-4155 ext.A5584 1523 Lincolnway West PAT 
At 519 E. Corby: Call Dave at 277-8660. Leave a South Bend, IN "'1)Name the teams in last year's RB 2 BDRM: $280 message. 233-4767 final four. '"2)What is the most amount of I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE! SUMMER OR FALL. MOVING OFF CAMPUS? teams ever participating in 
F. ROOMMATEIS & APT. NEEDED Dep. & References. Bedroom Furniture for sale. Which former Minnesota Viking is a Bookstore in one year? 4 SUMMER. TRTLE CRKICMP VW. 1-800-582-9320. Call Karen 271-7926 two-time winner of the Golden '"3)Name last year's Mr. X2358 CORlE Hatchet Award? Bookstore. 
Builders Square Read about him in: Look Out For '"4)Who did Tony Rice play for HELP! I'm looking to rent an Loft for sale The Manhole Cover, available now when he was a senior? apartment for the summer session. SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM Excellent Condition in the bookstore! Roommates are fine -preferably HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. Best Offer X2856 Turn in your answers to win IIIII male. Please call X4238. GREAT RATES! AVAIL. AnTostal Trivia!!!!!!!!! 
NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306 What four-legged creature played in 'LILILI:E:ELILILI:ELI:E' 
We need a 3rd roommate for our the 1985 Hall of Fame game? summer aptlll(rent will be low) "Students" New double bed, couch set, table, Read about this game and more in: OakHill. Joannie 273-9406 Corie Now renting 1300 sq It condos at etc. Call Alicia at 272-3638. Look Out For The Manhole Cover, ANSWERS TO YESTERDAY'S x2358 College Park Condominiums. All available now in the bookstore! ANTOSTAL TRIVIA!II!II!!II!I!!!!!I 
units include: 1) Basement of Haggar Need responsible student with car -Security systems, GARAGE SALE.NEW SCHWINN THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE 2)Chemistry to provide summer care for 3-4 kids -Hard wood floors, BIKE. MUCH MORE.17630 JUDAY TEAM is currently accepting 3)Morrissey, Sorin, Walsh in Hinsdale, IL, M-F 7:30-6:00. -All appliances, LAKE. FRI & SAT. BULLA TO 29TH applications for a part-time debate 4)1nfront of Sacred Heart Includes driving to soccer, ballet, -Washer & dryer in unit, 272-6306 coach. If interested, send a resume, 5)The Cross etc. and afternoons at village pool. -Large balconies, two letters of recommendation, and ANTOSTAL TRIVIA Salary negotiable, 708-789-1686, -Gas utilities, WEDDING GOWN, a list of previous debate Marybeth Dougherty -Free covered parking, "DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6. achievements to the Vice President '79. -2 large bedrooms, GORGIOUS. NEVER WORN. $500. of Student Affairs APRIL 28-NEXT WEDNESDAY • 
-2 full bathrooms, 271-5632. University of Notre Dame IS THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF WANTED TO BUY: dorm size -Only 1/4 mile from door of 315 Main Building THE OBSERVER. refrigerator (1 or 1&1/2 cubic It). Will Hesburgh library. For Sale, 1 couch, 1bunk bed Notre Dame, IN 46556 THERE WILL BE A SENIOR pay cash. Call Tim 631-7646 from For appt. -272-0691 or see Off­[2 mattresses incl.] cheap I COMMENCEMENT ISSUE ON 8-4:30, M-F. Campus Housing office. call 273 -2941 ask for Rob DEADLINE: May 1. FRIDAY, MAY 14. 



---. -~ ·•"' .,
~ i.\.l __ ,.
"--"""' '" ' 
TAN DINGS 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
E..t  Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pel  GB  
Boston  11  4  .733  
Detroit  9  5  .643  1 1/2  
New York  8  7  .533  3  
Toronto  8  7  .533  3  
Milwaukee  5  7  .417  41/2  
Cleveland  5  10  .333  8  
Baltimore  4  9  .308  8  

Weal Dlvlelon 
w L Pel GB California 8 4 .867 Texas 8 5 .615 1/2 Minnesota 8 6 .571 1 Chicago 7 7 .500 2 Seattle 6 8 .429 3 Oakland 5 8 .385 31/2 Kansas C~ 5 10 .333 4 1/2 
NATIONAL LEAGUE E..t Dlvlelon 
w L Pel GB Phlladelphla10 4 .714 Montreal 9 6 .600 I 1/2 St. Louis 9 6 .600 1 1/2 Pittsburgh 8 7 .533 21/2 Chicago 7 7 .500 3 New York 7 7 .500 3 Florida 5 10 .333 5 1/2 Weal Dlvlelon 
w L Pel GB San Franclsco1 0 6 .825 Houston 8 8 .571 I Atlanta 9 8 .529 1 112 San Diego 8 8 .429 3 Los Angeles6 10 .375 4 Colorado 5 9 .357 4 Cincinnati 5 10 .333 41/2 z·denotes first game was a win 
Thureday'a Qamea 
Minnesota 5, Milwaukee 4 New York 5, Oakland I Chicago 3, B~imore 2 Toronto 8, Kansas City 3 Boston at Seattle (n) Cleveland at California (n) 
CHEDULE 
Saturday'• Gemaa 
Chlcego at Toronto, I :35 p.m. 
Texas at Milwaukee, 2:05p.m. 
Baltimore 81 Kansas Ctty, 2:35p.m. 
Cleveland at Oakland, 4:05 p.m. 
Detr~ at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. 
New York at Seatt1e, 10:05 p.m. 
Boston at California, 10:05 p.m. 
Cincinnati at Chlcego, 1 :05 p.m. 
Florida at Colorado, 1:15 p.m. 
San Francisco at Mk>ntreal, 1 :35 p.m. 
San Diego at New York, I :40 p.m. 
Loa Angeles at Philadelphia, 7:05 p.m. 
Houston at Pittsburgh, 7:05 p.m. Manta at St. Louis, 8:05p.m. 
l10  Streak  Home  Away  
7·3  Lost!  6·1  5·3  
Z·8·2  Won2  7·1  2·4  
5·5  Won2  3·3  5·4  
Z·5·5  Won!  4·2  4·5  
Z·4.e  Lost1  2·2  3·5  
Z·3·7  Lost3  4·3  1·7  
Z·4.e  Lost2  2·5  2·4  
L!O  Streak  Home  Away  
Z·7·3  Won2  5·2  3·2  
5·5  Lost2  4·2  4·3  
Z·6·4  Won!  5·4  3·2  
5·5  Won2  2·3  5·4  
Z·4.e  Won1  4·3  2·5  
3·7  Lost2  5·4  0·4  
Z·5·5  Lost1  3·6  2·4  

L10 Streak Home Away Z·7·3 Lost! 6·2 4·2 Z·7·3 Won4 6·3 3·3 Z·6·4 Won1 6·3 3·3 Z·5·5 Lost! 4·4 4·3 5·5 Lost1 4·4 3·3 5·5 Lost1 3·5 4·2 3·7 Won! 3·6 2·4 
L10 Streak Home Away Z·7·3 Won1 5·2 5·4 Z·7·3 Won1 2·4 6·2 4·6 Lost1 4·3 5·5 Z·5·5 Won1 3·4 3·4 3·7 Lost3 3·3 3·7 3·7 Loat1 3·3 2·8 Z·4-& Lost1 2·4 3·8 
Thureday'e Game• 
Florida 4, Atlanta 3 
St. Louis 5, Colorado 2 
Montreal 3, Los Angeles 1 
San Diego 2, Philadelphia 1 
Pittsburgh 5, Cincinnati 4 
San F ranclsco 13, New York 4 
Only games schadulad 
Sunday'a Gam oa 
Chicago at Toronto, 1:35 p.m. 
Detroit at Minnesota, 2:05 p.m. 
Texas at Milwaukee, 2:05p.m. 
Baltimore at Kansas City, 2:35p.m. 
Cleveland at Oakland, 4:05 p.m. 
New York at Seatt1e, 4:35p.m. 
Boston at California, 8:05 p.m 
San Francisco at Montreal, I :35 p.m. 
Los Angeles at Philadelphia, 1 :35 p.m. 
Houston at Pittsburgh, 1:35 p.m. 
San Diego at New York, 1:40 p.m. 
Atlanta at St. Louis, 2:15p.m. 
Cincinnati at Chlcego, 2:20 p.m. 
Florida at Colorado, 3:05 p.m. 
. ..... ..... ..... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ..... ..
(I ~ .. :•••••·:• ·:• ::• •••••• ::•••••• :••••••::• :•••••••::••••••: :• -~ ~ 0 ~:3 ~~-_,_
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~.~,.. "--'. 
• :: .: :: ·.: : :: : :: •• : <-<;~~':.¥ 'I ~ 
..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . .. . ..... 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL National League 
CINCINNATI REDS-Placed Rob Dibble pitcher, on the 15·day disabled list. Called up Milton Hill, pitcher, from Indianapolis of the American Association. 
FLORIDA MARUNs-Deslgnated Scott Pose, outfielder, for assignment. Purchasad to contract of Matt Turner, pitcher, from Edmonton of the Pacific Coast league. Recalled Bob Natal, catcher, from Edmonton. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Named Ken Schneider director of direct marketing and ticket services. American Association 
SYRACUSE CHIEF8-Signed Walt Terrell 
pitcher. ' BASKETBALL National Basketball Aaeoclation 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Placed Vernon Maxwell, guard, on the Injured list. Signed Terry Teagle, guard. United Statea Baaketbell League 
DAYTONA BEACH HOOTERS-Named Jerry Bisbano national dlractor of scouting. 
WESTCHESTER STALUONS-Signed Larry Stewart and Jacob Talley, guards, and Levert Threats, forward. FOOTBALL National Football League 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Huey Richardson, defensive end; Chuck Bullough, linebacker; Dale Hatcher, punter; and Dante Whitaker, tight end. 
MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Signed lzel Jenkins, cornerback. 
NEW YORK GIANTS-81gned Victor Jones, running back. National Hockey League 
NHL-Promoted senior managers Fred Scalera to vice president, licensing; Steve Flatow to vice president, sponsorship; and Walter Luby to vice president, finance. COLLEGE 
ROWAN-Named K.C. Keeler football coach. 
SOUTH CAROLINA--Narnad Erika Austin and Michelle Schmitt assistant sports Information diractors. 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Patrick Dlvlalon At East Rutherford, N.J. 
Pittsburgh  1  o  3-4  
New Jersey  I  I  
1-3  

First Period-1, New Jersey, Guerin 1, 1:03. 2, Pittsburgh, McEachern 3 (Straka), 9:36. Second PeriO<I-->l, New Jersey, Holik 1 (S.Stevens), 16:32. 
Third Perlod-4, Pittsburgh, M.Lemleux 4 (Murphy, Ramsey), 1:07. 5, Pittsburgh, Tagilanett1 1 (Loney, Tippett), 7:05. 6, Pittsburgh, Murphy 1 (Francis, Tocchet), 9:31 (pp). 7, New Jersey, Semak 1 (Zelepukln), 9:44. 
Shots on gael-Pittsburgh 7·16·12­
35. New Jersey 16·1H>-32. 
Goalies-Pittsburgh, Barrasso. New Jersey, Billington. A-14,974. 

HOW HAHY COUIG~ GRADUAUS CAH GH IHTO ATOYOTA? 

See? College was worth it Your degree
WITH THE TOYOTA 
is your key to the Toyota you've always 
CLASS Of 113 ~HAIL fiHAHCIHG VROGliAHr wanted. If you're a graduate of a four­year college, graduate school or regis­
JUST ABOUT ALL Of THEM. 
tered nursing program, Toyota has special finance rates for you. Rates with no money down. And a 90-day deferred payment* What's more, the Toyota Retail Financing Program is available a year after and up to six months before you actually graduate. And you can finance any new Toyota -the Paseo shown here, or aCorolla, Tercel, 4x4, whatever moves you. Should you want to lease your new Toyota, 
an attractive leasing program is also available. For complete information and qualification requirements, as well as the location of your nearest Toyota dealer, just calll.$5-COILEGE. The car or truck of your dreams, and financing you won't lose sleep over. Bet you can really get into that 
See Your Local Toyota Dealer. 
TOYOTAm:21 
MOTOR 
CREDIT 
CORPORATION 
"I kM whalJOU dofor me!' 
@TOYOTA 
At Uniondale, N.Y. Washington 1 1 0-3 
N.Y. Islanders 1 o 
2 1­

First Perlod-1, New York, Thomas 1, 16:37. 2, Washington, Burridge 1 (May, Cavallinl), 18:58. Second Perlod-3, Washington, Carpenter 1 (Ridley, Bondra), 6:18. 
Third Peri~. Washington, Elynulk 1 (Carpenter, Ridley), 6:15. 5, New York, Thomas 2 (Turgeon, Klng), 11 :II. 6, New York, Turgeon 3 (Thomas, Hogue), 19:17. 
Overtlme-7, New York, Ferraro 3 (Hogue, Flatley), 4:48. Shots on gael-Washington t 0·8·6· 1-25. New York 1 o.e.a-6--30. Goalies-Washington, Talbaraccl. New York, Healy. A-14,180. 
Adame Dlvlelon At Buffalo, N.Y. 

Boston  1  0  2  
0-3  
Buffalo  2  0  
1­ 

First Perlod-1, Buffalo, Mogllny 4 (Lafontaine, Hawerchuk), 1 :33 (pp). 2, Buffalo, Khmylev 1 (Smehllk, Hannan), 4:42. 3, Boston, Bourque 1 (Oates, Donato), 17:33 (pp). 
Second Peri~one. 

Third Peri~. Boston, Smolinski 1 (Oates), 13:28, 5, Buffalo, B.Sweeney 2 (Khmylev, Carney), 14:56. 6, Boston, Neely 3 (Oates, Shaw), 15:57. 
Overtlme-7, Buffalo, Khmylev 2 (Hawerchuk, LaFontaine), 1 :05 (pp). Shots on goal-Boston 11·8·15·(}-­34. Buffalo 12·11-e·J-34. Gael/es-Boston, Blue. Buffalo, Fuhr. A-16,325. 
At Montreal Quebec 1 0 0 (}--1 Montreal 0 0 1-2 First Period-1, Quebec, Sundin 1 (Gusarov), 1:17. Second Per/od-2, Montreal, Muller 1 (Damphousse, Bellows), 1:30 (pp). 
Third Period-None. 

Overtime-3, Montreal, Damphousse 1 (Bellows, Desjardins), 10:30 (pp). Shots on goal-Quebec 12·4·14·5­35. Montreal11·14·13·12-{;0. Gaelles-Quebec, Hextall. Montreal, Roy. A-17,879. 
HE ADVENTURES 0 
[!iGJ 

Dally 4:30,7:15,9:30 Sat-Sun 12:00,2:15,4:30,7:15,9:30 
Dally 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 :====--S:a~t-_:S:un~l:3::_:0::_·4:30,7:00,9:30 
ROBERT REDFORD 
INDECENT PROPOSAL 
Dally 4:45, 7:30, I 0:00 [!!) 
Sat-Sun 1:00,3:00,5:00,7:15,9:45
Sat-Sun 2:00,4:45, 7:30, 10:00 

CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
Local weekly paper looking for ~ 
someone to join the editorial ~r._7?1 department to write sports and ---, learn all aspects of newspaper~ 1 business. Computer, writing and ·. · ·>-J..,\ photography experience helpful. ~~-"' 

Call PennySaver Editor Marcia Steffens (219) 282-4457 2102 South Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46613 

TV SPORTSWATCH 
Llva, same·day and delayed national TV sports coverage for Friday, April 23 and Saturday, April 24 (schedule subjact to change): All times Eastern FRIDAY, APRIL 23 2p.m. 
ESPN -Men's tennis, ATP Tour Championship Series, Monte Carlo Open, quarterfinal, at Monte Carlo, Monaco (same·day tape) 3p.m. 
WGN-Major League Baseball, Cincinnati at Chicago Cubs 4p.m. 
USA -PGA Golf, Greater Greensboro Opan, first round, at Greensboro, N.C. 7:30p.m. 
ESPN -Major Leegue Baseball, San 
Francisco at Montreal PRIME -NCAA Baseball, Florida St. at Miami WGN -Major League Baseball, Chicago 
White Sox at Tor onto 
WWOR -Major League Baseball, San Diego at N.Y. Mets 8:30p.m. 
TBS -Major League Baseball, Atlanta at St. Louis 
10:30 p.m. 
ESPN -Major League Baseball, Cleveland at Oakland OR N.Y. Yankees at Seattle 
SATURDAY, APRIL 24 Noon 
ESPN -Men's tennis, ATP Tour Championship Series, Monte Carlo Open, semifinal, at Monte Carlo, Monaco (same·day tape) 1 p.m. 
CBS -Major League Baseball, Florida at Colorado OR Cincinnati at Chicago Cubs 2p.m. 
ESPN -NASCAR Auto Racing, Modified Series, at Martinsville, Va. SC -NCAA Beseball, Kentucky at Florida 3p.m. 
ABC-PBA Bowling, Firestone Tournament of Champions, at Falrtawn, Ohio 3:30p.m. 
NBC -NBA Basketball, San Antonio at Phoenix 4p.m. 
ESPN -Track & Field, Penn Relays, at Philadelphia 
PRIME -College Basketball, Black College Basketball Coaches AII·Star Game, at Norfolk, Va. 4:30p.m. 
CBS -PGA Golf, Greater Greensboro Open, third round, at Greensboro, N.C. 6p.m. 
ESPN -Thoroughbred racing, The Californian, at Inglewood, Calif. (same·day tape) 7:30p.m. 
ESPN -NHL Hockey Playoffs, divisional semifinals, Wales Conferenca, game No. 4, Boston at Buffalo or Washington and New York Islanders. 
PRIME -NCAA Baseball, Florida St. at Miami 8p.m. 

$3.501---­
1111 Show• Onto"' 6 prn 
lndiancfummer 

,,;; ALAN ARKIN 
MATT CRAVEN 
)Pt; nl 
Dally 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 


Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer 
page 17 


• 
• 

-
DATE: Sunday, April 25 
TIME: 11:00 AM 
LOCATION: Outdoor Courts next to Stepan Center 
Check it out, you may win a Free T-Shirt! 
For More Information Contact Your Intramural Sports Office 


-~-~----~~~------~--------------~-------~ 
page 18 The Observer Friday, April 23, 1993 
Top eight dominate 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Bookstore Basketball XXII completed the Sweet Sixteen round of the tournament yes­terday without one of the top eight seeds being upset, sur­prisingly. 
Ironically. the top three seeds had a more difficult time oust­ing their foes than did the five seeds below them. 
Top seed Malicious Prosecu­tion took a fast lead over six­teen seed Smooth Momentum in the first half, and it seemed that the game would be a Iaugher. Smooth refused to let up, however, and surged in the second half to make the game interesting. Malicious pulled out the victory 21-15 behind Brian McDermott's nine points. 
"We didn't play very aggressive," said Malicious captain Ken Boehner. "We let down a little bit. 
"I think we probably under­estimated these guys." he added. "They should've been in the top eight." 
As opposed to Malicious, Te­quila White Lightning started the game poorly and finished off strong. Fifteen seed NO's Most Wanted jumped out to leads of 3-0 and 5-2 before Te­quila tied the game at seven and gained a lead which it would not relinquish. 
Tequila adjusted to NO's 2-3 zone by forcing the ball down low to Eric Jones and football 
-
player Brian Ratigan, who sim­ply overpowered the smaller defense. Tequila, who elimi­nated ND's Most Wanted from last year's tournament in the Round of 32, won the match 21­14 "We didn't shoot the ball like we like to," said Tequila captain Mike MacKinnon. "We did well when we got the ball in close, and defensively we played alright." Three seed H-A-H-D-K-0-R-E allowed seventeen points, the most any losing team scored all day, to The More We Win, The llarder It Gets. The contest was fairly close until the second half when II-A-H-D-K-0-H-E ex­panded its lead to a seemingly untouchable amount. However, with the score 20-12 The More We Win threw a slight scare into its opponent by rattling off five unanswered points. 11-A-R­D-K-0-H-E stopped its show-


onsored by the Student Activities Office 
boating attempts and worked it down low for the final point. 
"It's a catch twenty-two," said captain Ray Griggs. "When we start playing bad, we start do­ing well. They were tough." 
None of the five other victors allowed their opponents to score as many points as each of the other three losing teams scored. 
In response to recent unruli­ness from both spectators and players, commissioners of Bookstore Basketball XXII have expressed concern about the potential for inappropriate be­havior in the final three rounds of the tournament. 
"We've had many complaints concerning the treatment that the crowd has given to both the teams playing and the referees," said Head Commissioner Andy Sinn. "If we continue to see this harassing behavior we may resort to roping off the area around the courts." 
"We will have professional 
Mom, Dad, & Michael NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 



Reserved scats: $7. Students and senior citizen discounts arc avai1ah1e Wed., Thu. and Sun. Tickets are avai1ahle at the LaFortune Ticket Office. 

Don't miss this 
MasterCard and Visa orders call: 

to get hals of your lnorite 
631-8128. 
Wed. Arri121 

1ollege and pro teams 
-Sat. Arri1 24 at 8:10 rm

from around the worldl 
Sun. April 25 at 3:10pm 
.1...Maticious.P.rosecution....... 

_15 ~-~~~ IQu.:s..P..I:QI§le<.Yl~lo.o. 


ELITE EIGHT
21

.1.6...Smooth Momentum ................." 
S...figbtlng.Kernals........................~~p.m. F~iday Bookstore 9 21-12 flg~tn9.~~~-n.~I!>.... ---· 
9... Sitter................................................ 
c: I · -· 5 p.m. Saturday Stepan 5 ~---.ha.Hawk.WIILNevar.Dte........~ Haw.k..WiiJ..N~ver.O.ie.... ~
21 6
.l2...Afr.od.eziacs...........................~---­
. , 5 p.m. Friday Bookstore 9 ...........................,­.1.3...Hoi.G.t:lts.AflyJn.......................~H d 821-4 ---~~-------~~-Q~~~-----------------4 PM 4..J:iaad.Bangers... ........................ SUNDAY 
a..H~A~R~.O.:K~.O:.B~.E......................~H-A-R-D-K-0-R-E 
14 T . 21-17 .............................................. STEPAN 5 
...........l:le..m.gr~.w.~.wm.,., ................. 
§ ..Q.9.r9.{§J!...................................~.P~·~!~~~: I~ookstore 10 21-11 ........................................... 
.1.L.Ggm!og.fr9.m.e.~hio.g ____________ _ 
1...1;;.b9DY.S.ide..of..th~.Dom.EL......~bony Side of6t~emo:~~rday Stepan 5 
;i_~~·..~~:;;;;:~:~:~1:~;=~~=~::ii~···­
?...Ie.qt,J!!~..w~J.'~--~!9.1J!JD.9..............r 
by William Shakespeare 
Three tloys only! 
Thurs., ~ril 22 IIam •7pm fri., April 23 IIam 7pm
I 
lat., April 24 lOam lpm
I 


Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer page 19 
Women's bookstore tournament second to none 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY #1 CACTUS JACK'S SPICY play leads to many steals and Sports Writer JALAPENAS catalyzes their fast break at­With two players taller than tack. They rebound very well 
A team-by-team analysis of six feet two inches and two very and when necessary they can the final eight teams in the strong guards to handle the work it down low. Women's Bookstore Basketball ball, Cactus Jack's is likely the "They have a great inside­Tournament. most well-rounded team in the outside combination," said 
tournament. Their defensive Bookstore Executive Commis-
ELITE EIGHT 
...1.~_§r<?.~!f.l.9..Y.P...~X~s!Y.... 21 8 BWA 
__;:~~~;:·.~~~~~~~;:::::::::::::::::~~~~:~:~BY.~..r.~:~~!~~t?..n~~------------·---' 
5 Sllamm & J 
...................................................;~~~;~.5.Sllamm..&.J................... ...1.~_MMM..,... f9~Y.I.~dY. ...................,. 
4 Kiss of Finesse 6 p.m. Friday Stepan 5 
........................ ...... ..............................~ 4 Kiss of Finesse 
--~?R~Y--~-~ts~ii!~-~r..9ts~tt_~_1_~~,. .............................................. 
............_g_,...Y.. ....................................... . ...1.~ ..9.~-~~--9.~~~-l?.!!~st ............~-1-~-~~-~--13.tog __ 6 You Don't Have Balls ... 5 p.m. Friday Stepan 11.r.............................. 
--~~:-~~~;-~.;.~;;~: :::::::..:..:·:--:--~~-~i:~-§_Y~-~-p~-~-·~-~~Y~-~~!! ··· 
7 Ya You Know Me 
;·~~:~~~:;~·~"~'~"~::.:·:~d::·:.:~,·~ ........................... 
--~-~-~-~~-~-i-~_i!:l..~~-~-~.7.~~-~~-----~-1-~~~-2..A.~~-~c:m.Y.Tr.~Y.~I_________ _ 

Serving the Midwest with a large and complete Birkenstock footwear selection since 1971 

• 
Sandals, Clogs and Shoes always in stock 

• 
Repair and Orthotic service 

• 
Call or write for a complementary catalogue and footprint sizing paper 


SUN-GRAIN HEALTH PRODUCTS 
628 Grove Street, Evanston, Illinois 60201 (708)869-6880. (708)328-6366 M-F 9-6; Sat. 10-5 
©1993 Birkenstock 

Mambar lntamational Nanny Association 
Phone: 
(2/9) 277-8090 (219) 674-6665 (£/!hart) 
<Juality ln-Homt• Child Can· 
Permanent Placement: 
• Full or part-time Caregivers 
who come to your home on 
a regular basis. 
• 
Share a Nanny 

• 
Summer Nanny Temporary Service 

• 
Sick child care 


• Occasional day or evening care 
• Overnight or weekend care 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 

.------------------------, maintain a fast pace while re-
Gewantto :alktoyou ... 
................................................... 
The Office of University Computing (OUC) is acampus service organization. Its mission is to meet the various needs ofthe campus community. To better understand these needs, the OUC directors plan to visit adifferent part of the campus every day ofthe week ofApril19-23. Come talk with us. Hear our upcoming plans, and let us know what we can do to better serve you. 
SCHEDULE 

Monday , April 19 3:30-5:00 131 Decio Tuesday, April 20 12:00-1:30 121 Hayes-Healy 3:30-5:00 262 Stepan 
Conference Room Wednesday, April21 3:30·5:00 258 Fitzpatrick Thursday, April 22 3:30-5:00 Foster Room, 
LaFortune Center Friday, April 23 3:30·5:00 121 Main Building 
Light refreshments will be served. 
office ol University Computing 
: university ol Notre Dame 

sioner John O'Rourke. "They're easily the best team in the tournament." 
#2 ANTHONY TRAVEL 
Anthony Travel is led by Irish women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw and her two as­sistant coaches Sandy Botham and Sara Liebscher. The team rebounds well and likes to run the fast break while playing a zone defense. They will face a major challenge this weekend because McGraw and Botham will be out of town tomorrow, Saturday, and possibly Sunday. 
"Sara will have to pick up the slack because she can do it in­side and out," said Botham. 
#3 RING MY BELLE 
This squad has two six-foot tall ex-members of the St. Mary's varsity team. It tries to get it inside to them whenever it can and it tries to run the fast break. 
"With the excitement of Bookstore you get very nervous and anxious," said Ring My Belle player Jennifer Conville. "If we just take our time and think things through, then hopefully everything will click together." 
#4 KISS OF FINESSE 
Captained by ex-Notre Dame player Comalita Haysbert, this team mainly plays play-ground basketball. It relies on its de­fense and the superior individ­ual talent of its players. 
"Right now we're just hoping to make it to the Final Four," said Haysbert. 
#5 SLIAMM &J 
Consisting basically of Farley Hall's interhall starting five, Sllamm & J is a tall team which rebounds, blocks shots well, and plays together on offense . 
"If we play well together and click as a team." said captain Leslie Fautsch, "we'll go pretty far." 
#6 YOU DON'T HAVE BALLS EITHER 
All members of Pasquerilla East's semi-finalist interhall team, this short squad relies on its passing and solid outside shooting for success. 
"If we can keep our outside shots going," said team member Melissa Gutierrez, "I think we have a pretty good shot at it." 
#7 YA YOU KNOW ME 
With a Run 'n Gun offense bolstered by two St. Mary's veterans, this team likes to 
maining patient on offense when necessary. 
"We need to play together, keep up the fast pace, relax, and have fun," said team member Carrie Piercy. 
#9 FIVE POSITIONS AND A ONE NIGHT STAND 
Just having knocked off eighth seed BWA, this team carries momentum into the Fi­nal Eight. With two players who can post up down low, it has a combination of an outside and inside game. 
"We're not going to be intim­idated," said team captain Jeannine Trezvant. "We're going to have fun and play our game." 

Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of Saint Mary's 
272-7510 

Do you have the summer time s!Jhool blues?? Ccme live at Remington Court during summer school, and relax in lux11ry between classes. We have junior one bedl·ooms that tvill give the privacy ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located ou Main Street between McKinley and Edison 
------~ 



page 20 The ObseNer Friday, April 23, 1993 
Saint Mary's tennis battles back to post two wins 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team (10-4) proved they could bounce back after a devastating loss this week, as they crushed Valparaiso and Hillsdale after falling to Albion College to be­gin the week's matches. 
In Tuesday's match, they fell 
The Observer/Sean Faman Junior Mary Cosgrove has a chance to qualify for nationals next week, depending on her pending divisional ranking. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The N.D. Martial Arts In­stitute will be holding its an­nual belt testing at the Rockne Memorial in room 301 on Saturday April 24. The testing runs from 1 p.m.-8 p.m All are welcome to attend. 
The Ultimate Club will be having practice at 4:30 p.m. every school day until the end of the year behind Stepan Center. Big Ten Open is this weekend. All are welcome. 
The Irish Guard will be holding will be holding an in­formational meeting for those interested in trying out for next year's squad in the LaFortune TV room on Thursday 4/22 at 5 p.m. If you have any questions call Dan at 4-1527. 
Bookstore Basketball Notice: Starting with the round of 32. no rescheduling will be allowed; however, if the teams seeking to reschedule can arrange to swap court times with another game, it will be allowed. 

to Albion, 6-3, but fought for the two victories on Wednesday and Thursday. The Belles beat Valparaiso, 7-2, and blanked Hillsdale yesterday. 9-0. 
"It was good for us to win two in row after Albion," said coach Jo-Ann Nester. 
Number-one singles player Mary Cosgrove, a junior, had only her second loss of the sea-

Q:Where will my parents stay for 1993 Graduation? 
A:Residence Inn! 
Rooms Still Available 
•One & Two Bedroom Suites 
Residence Inn by Marriott
•Complimentary Breakfast 
716 N. Niles Ave 

•Fully 
Equipped Kitchens South Bend, IN 46617 

•
Pool, Whirlpool, Exercise Room (219) 289-5555 

•1 
Mile from Campus 



BENEFIT GOLF TOURNAMENT 
TODD BROSKI, A NOTRE DAME SENIOR, WAS VERY SERIOUSLY INJURED IN A RUGBY GAME ON APRIL 3, 1993. ALL PROCEEDS FROM THE TOURNAMENT WILL GO TOWARDS DEFRAYING THE COST OF TODD'S MEDICAL AND REHABILITATION EXPENSES 
WHEN: SATURDAY, MAY 8 • ND staff and general public, Bam; $35 per person Four person scramble • Students, 1 pm; $1 o per person 
GREAT CONTESTS AND PRIZES : • LOWEST FOUR-PERSON ROUND 
BARNABY'S CHILl'S 
the Pro Shop at the course, LaFortune information desk, or with your dorm representative Make checks payable to: The University of Notre Dame/ Todd Broski fund 
ALL OTHER DONATIONS WILL BE GREATLY APPRECIATED 
son, in a split set against Al­bion's Rachelle Fichtner. 6-4, 7­6, (8-6). 
Junior Thayma Darby, at number-three, and senior Chris Smiggen, at number-five, were the only two singles players to beat their opponents. Darby beat Kristen Misner, 6-4, 6-1, and Smiggen beat Jes Basch, 7­5,7-5. 
In doubles play, the number­one team of Cosgrove and sophomore Andrea Ayres held on as long as they could against Fichtner and Jen Myers, but ended up falling, 6-2, 4-6, 7-6, (10-8). 
At number-two doubles, Smiggen and sophomore Robin Hrycko lost a close split set against Misner and Evie Kopp, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. 
Senior Shannon McGinn and Darby had a close split set also, but they pulled off a 3-6. 6-2, 7­5 win at number-three. 
The next day at Valparaiso 
UNIVERSITY Rf:SUM'h , SERVICE 

• REsUMEs • TEC~NicAl 
•CREATiVE WRiTiNq 277" l 700 
locATEd off-cAMpus iN CRAN~ER 
AT UNiVERSiTy GARdENS 
• 
LONGEST DRIVE }

• 
CLOSEST TO THE PIN 

• 
LONGEST PUTT 


sponsors include: BRUNO'S ROCCO'S 
Among many others 
SIGN UP NOW at : 
was quite a come back for the Belles. They pulled off five straight set wins in singles against a Div. I school. In doubles, all three pairs played eight game pro sets, with only one loss at number-two. 
Yesterday, at home, the Belles improved -their game even further by dominating Hillsdale. 
All but two singles players won in straight sets. Senior Na­talie Kloepfer, at number-two, came back in her last two sets against Jennifer Wallman, beating her 2-6, 6-2, 6-2. And at number-four, Ayres had a disappointing second set but managed to smash Mindy Finkel in the first and second sets, 6-2. 4-6, 6-2. 
AS YOU WISH IMPORTS 
(formerly Guatemalan Imports) 
Many new handcrafted accessories, clothing and jewelry from: 
Nepal Mexico Peru India Guatemala 
Clearance Sale!!! 
20°/o-40°/o off! 
LaFortune Room 108, 1st floor April 26-May 1st (Sat.) 10:30 a.m.-5:00p.m. 
ON FRONT AND BACK 9 
BURGER KING SUNNY ITALY 

In doubles, all teams ended their matches in straight set wins. The number-three duo of McGinn and Darby finished off Zoe Pfister and Sandra Seydel quickly, 6-0, 6-0. 
This weekend, the Belles will host a Tri-Match against Wheaton College and Depauw University. 
Coach Nester forecasts that the Depauw match will be tough. "They have a good Div. III program," said Nester. 
The Wheaton match will be held at Notre Dame on Satur­day morning at 10:00. Later that afternoon at 4:00 the De­pauw game will take place at Saint Mary's. 




Friday, April 23, 1993 The Observer 
SMC softball splits with St. Francis 
BY JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The tables were turned for the Saint Mary's softball team on Wednesday. After defeating the Lady Pilots of Bethel College in both games last year, the Belles dropped both contests this year, 2-1 and 8-1. 
Following these two losses, the Belles improved yesterday by beating Saint Francis College in their first game, though they fell in the second. 
Freshman Michelle Limb was the winning pitcher for the Belles in game one. Junior Stacy Bogataj, who was the second leading hitter for the Belles last year and continues to be a power house at the plate 
r-----------------------~~,
I ICan'tBelievelt's F ~\l\ vf "/: I 
: Yo~l * r~e ;j~:~. ~: : ¥kPut/.sm;K~v.wr••!-Topping! : 
I I 
1 with purchase ofany medium or 1 
I I 
: large cup offrozen yogurt : 
I expires 4/30/93 1 
L----------~--~~--~~------~ 

Happy 20th Noonan! 
Those steroids really did the trick! 
Laue Mom, Dad, Sis, & Marty 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student 
caller incentive program. 
Archibald Candy Corporation 
Fannie May/Fannie Farmer Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corporation Chili's Grill & Bar Damon's The Place For Ribs Doc Pierce's Restaurant Ehninger Florist Fantastic Sam's Flowers By Stephen Great Wall Chinese Restaurant Hans Haus Restaurant I Can't Believe It's Yogurt Nick's Patio Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation 
District's South Shore Passenger Service Papa John's Pizza #I Pasta Cafe Patricia Ann Florist Rocco's Restaurant United Limo, Inc. 


this year, broke a 4-4 tie in the bottom of the eighth inning when she singled in freshman Laura Richter. 
The momentum then switched in game two, as the Belles were defeated 8-5. Richter started the game, but was relieved by freshman Maria Vogel. Although happy with the win, junior Jane Murphy pointed out that there is still room for improvement. 
"We played well in the first game, but if we want to win any more games, we need to cut down on errors and improve our hitting," she said. 
The Belles will host Anderson College today at 3:00 for a make-up of an earlier sched­uled game. The two met over 


lifes moments. 
KODAK GOLD Ultra 400 Film Get true color and sharpness with enhanced, multi-purpose GOLD Ultra 400 Film-the richest color of any 400 film in its speed class. 
• 
unequaled color accuracy 

• 
broad range of colors 

• 
can be used with flash 

• 
ideal for low-light or fast-action situations 



AKodaJ AfOt!Wd;.
-

' &. 
Quality Kodak products always available at: 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
-
"They have an excellent first midfield that scores a lot of points, and since they've played to.~ether they're a very dangerow; unit," said Corrigan. 
This is :1. game that the Irish should win handily, but if they fail to break out of the funk that they have been in for the past couple of weeks, it could turn into a struggle for their 
The road to • the NCAA tournament begins at Ohio State, and is one Notre Dame must traverse carefully, taking no :bing for granted and playing with everything they've 
got. .-----------. 
~Kodak ~ FILM 

... 
spring break in Florida, where the Belles were easy 13-7 win­ners. 
"Although we beat them, they were a good team," Murphy pointed out. "Our defense needs to back up our pitchers more because they are a strong hitting team." 
However, Anderson was without their starting pitcher for the contest. Anderson coach Larry Holloway feels that this will help Anderson today, for although she is not a quick pitcher, she consistently throws strikes. The Belles, who have been plagued by fielding errors this season, must also watch Anderson junior Kim Lawson, who had two hits in as many at­tempts against the Belles. 
Saturday will find the Belles on the road again as they travel to Chicago to take on the Uni­versity of Chicago. 
Pitching will again be a strength for the Belles. Murphy, who is the starting catcher,feels that although both starters are freshmen, they play with much experience. 
"Our pitching has been very consistent this season," she explained. "The contributions of the pitchers have added to many wins this season." 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 23 
...----------------------------­
~---------~-----------------~--~~ page 22 The Observer Frida~April23, 1993 
-
• 
-

--------------Women'sTrack-------------­
Irish look to impress at Drake 

By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's track team will be travelling to Des Moines, Ia., this weekend to participate in the Drake Relays. 
Last week, the Irish scored 66 points in their loss to Ball State, scored 71.5 the tri-meet. Hillsdale w a distant third Emily Husted with 27.5 points. 
"The women competed really well," said Notre Dame assis­tant coach Tim Connelly. "We scored just about everywhere we could." 
Excellent performances were turned in last weekend by Karen Harris, who took first in the shot put, and sophomore Emily Husted, who won the 800 meter run, the 1500 meter run. and was a member of the victorious 4x400 relay team. Freshman Erica Peterson, who anchored the 4x400 relay team, also won the 400 meters and the 400 meter hurdles over a highly acclaimed Ball State sprinting squad. 
Strong running teams from 

NO PRE LAw SOCIETY 
Mock LSAT 
Saturday, April 24, 8 a.m. Cushing Auditorium 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF 
are invited to consider 
a Prayerful Pilgrimage 
to Denver, Colorado 
for 
World Youth Days 
August 10--16, 1993 
-Transportation­South Bend/Denver/South Bend By Bus and/or Van 
For information and sign~ups contact Campus Ministry 103 Hesburgh Library Telephone-1~ 7800 By April 30th. 
across the Midwest and South­competes in the high jump, will west will be competing in this try her hand at the heptathalon highly competitive meet. The this weekend, a prestigious Irish will look to dominate the event that tests an athlete's skill distance events behind sopho-and endurance in seven events. mores Sarah Riley, Stefanie The meet will begin today Jensen, Eva Flood, and Kristi with the heptathalon, and con­Kramer. tinue through Saturday after-
In such a competitive meet, noon. Individual performances the weight events will be a key, will be key, as Notre Dame will and that is where the Irish have look to qualify more runners for the advantage with Harris. the upcoming NCAA Outdoor 
Susan Maher, who normally Championships June 2-5. ~-----·~------~~ ------·--·-·--· , ______ 
_"J,....... t, 111 ~c~-__ . 212-s124
I 

(!. ur 1~---"'L~~~­
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile 1rom Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
'--------~ordabl~~_!_!!_~_~_!~-~~~-----·­
HERE FOR THE SUMMER?? Notre Datre Sports Marketing is looking for volunteers! Students : *will work directly with the varsity coaches and staff 
•will promote a specific varsity program 
•must be available this summer and next fall 
Sports Available: 
•women Is volleyball *men 1s soccer 
•women Is soccer *cross country 
*swimming •fencing 
•women Is basketball *hockey 
If interested, please contact the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
DENZEL WASHINGTON 
.~IH-

Malcolm X 
Scholar 
Convict 
Leader [)i!ICiple Hipster Father Hustler 

~\11111!­•-~ IARGI ~1\l\lllM \\ .m!LMLUflOOIS-.KIR\l\ mi­.WW.E.IJJ®.\I.II!N,'lTh100! .\'ffi.\&l.ml l.llll11\U AI. fiEFX~\ Jl. lmiY 11.\00 MIJl -::=lll!M(I..I.C -::l'f.IMIU'®Ril ,.-lllffi'lffil llHIIllD!Klm -:IR.illlfJL~Ii.E .... _ •.!:'.,~::AilXIIAill' -:W\l.limi.~IH -:MIH 
Dame Communication and Theatre 
Cinema at the Snite 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 



~ ~-·-~-·-------------------~ ~~-------~~-----------------------------"""'1 
•(' 


SPELUNKER 
rf\15 IS SW£LL 1 GUS'S Pt.AcH'/:>17 Hov..J (AN HF 6oD'{ ~~~ BP<-K AND 
':JA'f T\141 WHE.N M.Y SOUL 1s Tf::!lfW.r> IN A RoBoT II
wE'I\E ONE SIC. PAt11L'/ 
MY BODY 1''> A zoMBI£71 ~ 
AeiJAIN' ISN'T iT PEACHY? NOW f:\/f:RY­
TltiN!n WILl Bf: GRAND1 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
C\.JR\05\n' IS 11-\E ESSHKE. 
!='oR E)(P-MPL£.. 'IO\J Kt-10'1\J OF \1-\E SCIE.N.TIF\C MIND 
1-\0W MILK Cot-A£:'::> CYJT iD\lR ~O'::>t. II= '(CtJ Lf>-\JG\-1 'tii·IILE. DRIN.K\t-IG '? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Singer Lane 65 Demolish 36 Attestation 66 King Harald's 
1 Former Iranian ruler 
38 Cuttlefish ink predecessor 39 Strawberry's 67 One of the 
5 What novices don't know milieu Visayans 41 Baum's-­
10 Town in Abruzzi 68 Pitcher City Hershiser
14 Bee flat 
43 Counselor--­
69 Quayle's15 Reporter's 44 City north of Mt. successorassignment Carmel 70 Angst16 Cross 46 Fast fliers 
17 Song for Battle 71 Vassar
47 Controlled purchase18 This may be 49 One of the blank Aleutians 
19 Correct 
DOWN
51 Select and take 
procedure? 
53 Hero lived here 
1 Nabokov's poet 20 Larkspur 58 Tiff John­
22-breve 
61 Ornamental 2 Personnel chief 23Wipes out flower 3 St. Teresa of 24 Infernal figure 
63Wise men 26 Adriatic island 
64 " ... the homage 4 Mucha 28 Regal month? of-": Byron 
5 Emendation 6 Microwave­7 Variety of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
olivine 8 Supervene 9 Genealogical 
scroll B-=+=+-=o-FR8:::-Oii..,..H~~t-i 10 Orchestrators 11 "... -and 
trouble": Shak. 12 Muslim weight 13 Theorem or 
~=+:+.::::+.:-.-..iiilt'::'-t:'::+.:::-+=-1 nou menan II!IP'!"t-=::+.::+=E-i 21 Hellish goddess 25 It comes out in TheWash B~=+==+:=:-fi!!IIP!I-:+.±::+:HH:::+::-i 27 Tzara-Arp 
movement -:+.::-+.:-:+::-! 29 Poisonous tree .;....:.J..;~~ 30 Delta material 
Today 
Friday, April 23, 1993 page 23 
JAY HOSLER 

c'MON, &uYS. HANK' 'i 
NO, f,Y UnNOf'-INin ntf' 

SUST T'R'f JN(n 1TJ f\(1 IN 
R.6RLJ1\f or ;11\1!: PRol3lEI\l 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
nte 'SPiRIT OF n\~ 
AND 

CATHOLIC CHARAC1ER 
Of fHE UN!VERSJT'I. 
1\VPIN!n IT i.VJI.t (lO AWAY. 
BILL WATIERSON 
l't<\ G\lt.'S'S \N.G II WILL '51-\00T 
0\l\ \'-\'( t_P.,I~S . I)ON'\ iOO W~\-IT 10 '3t.E ?..> 


31 Bits 
32 Jewish month 
33 Take the bait 
341sland of dancers 
35 Spreading abroad 37 Wrangle 40 Was beholden 
to 42 Word with mile or music 45 Chrysoberyl, e.g. 
48 Duck or Trump 50 John-, first Duke of Roxburgh 52 Esthete Walter 
54J.­
Thurmond of 
S.C. 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
55 Papal crown 56 European 
blackbird 57 Small food fish 58 L.A. air problem 59 Stick: Sp. 60 Kanten 62 Cheerio's 
cousin 

"Man, these pups today with all their fancy balls and whatnot. ... Why, back in our day, we had to play with a plain old eat's head." 
CAMPUS  
Friday 7 p.m. "Growing into Leadership: A Workshop with Alumnae and Seniors" in the Regina Hall North Lounge. The workshop is part of ucelebrating a Leadership Community, H sponsored by Saint Mary's College. Registration is limited. To register call 284-4562. .•  

MENU  
Notre Dame Teriyaki Chicken Sandwich Pork Spareribs Waikiki Veg. Fried Rice Saint Mary's Cheese Ravioli Apricot Lemon Chicken Fried Perch Almondine  

... 

If you see news, call The Observer 
... 

(219) 631-5303 
Sports 
page 24 
Frida~April23, 1993 
Kobata throws second perfect game in two days 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA yesterday (Wednesday). was a total team effort." and jumped at the opportunity." Sports Writer "I thought I was dreaming," she Kobata experienced pain in her leg ''I'm glad I can help the team," said added. after the game, but she plans on being Knudson. "I wanted to play, and then 
It's almost impossible 
"I was shocked," exclaimed Irish coach ready to go the next time out. "The leg when we had the injuries, and I saw an to do it once, and it's Liz Miller. "''ve never known anybody bothered me in the fifth inning a little opportunity to step in." unheard of to do it that threw a perfect game back to back. bit," she said. "After the game, it gets As for playing behind Kobata. Knudson twice, but Notre Dame I was proud that our team could it painful." She was able to continue and felt confident in rightlield. "No one could freshman pitcher Terri twice." let her teammates pull her through. even touch her today," she said. Kobata has done it. The only time that Kobata's mastery Senior co-captain centerfielder Ronny The second game wasn't as 
For the second day in appeared in doubt came in the sixth Alvarez doubled in the fifth inning, and memorable, but it did have its share of a row, Kobata pitched a inning, when she had three balls and no junior shortstop Christy Connoyer excitement. Entering the seventh inning, perfect game in a 3-0 strikes on a Loyola batter. She pro­followed with the first of her two home The Irish held a 6-2 advantage, but Loy­Irish win at Loyola. She Terri Kobata ceeded to blow her away with three runs on the day. Then, in the sixth ola managed to score four runs in the had 11 strikeouts as she improved her straight strikes, and the batter went inning, junior Stephanie Pinter tripled seventh to tie the score. record to 11-3. The Irish finished the down without swinging. and came home on freshman Jenna "They were just hitting the ball," said sweep with a 7-6 extra inning thriller, "It was unbelievable that the girl didn't Knudson's single. senior co-captain pitcher Staci Alford. and improved their record to 25-11. swing," said Miller. "In the beginning of the year, we didn't "We got out of it, and luckily we were 
"I thought it was impossible," said "No pitcher could have asked for more have a position for Jenna," noted coach . able to score." Kobata. "I didn't pitch as well as from her defense," explained Kobata. "It Miller. "She got a chance in the outfield 
see SOFTBALUpage 15 

Lacrosse tries to regroup at Ohio State 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
After losing their last two out of three and falling to #16 in the rankings, the Notre Dame lacrosse team (9-2) hopes to find the perfect tonic to cure them of their uninspired play when they travel to Columbus, Ohio on Saturday to faceoff against the Buckeyes of Ohio State. 
Ohio State comes into 


'll!llt• :
the game sporting a 5­
L••·· ! 
4 record which is indicative of the me­diocre play that has 
;r~ 
marked their season Billy Ahmuty under coach Brian Salazar. Last year the Irish easily defeated the Buckeyes 12-6 at home. 
But the Irish have to come into the game focusing all their attention on what is at hand, and not looking ahead to a much better team in Michigan State next week. The game against the Buckeyes will begin the key two-game set the Irish will play versus Midwest Hegion opponents. If the Irish win their next two games, then they lock up the region's bid to the NCAA tournament. if they should stumble then they turn their fate over to the tournament committee, We looked real good at the end of Sophomore goalie Hyan Jewell, who
where anything goes. 
practice this week," Corrigan noted. struggled last week against OhioWithout a doubt, the Irish must pick The offensive end will be the area of Wesleyan, returns to the net to lead a up the pieces from a very disheartening the Buckeye team that Notre Dame will defense manned by sophomores Mike
loss at home last weekend to Ohio 
try to exploit. "They have a very young Iorio and Billy Gallagher and juniorWesleyan, where their uninspired play defense, and if we protect the ball and Garrett Heilly. The defense will try to was clearly seen. Notre Dame, however, 
force them to play a lot of defense, keep the Buckeyes from starting the
has had an entire week of practice to get they'll make mistakes and we can transition game and dumping the ball toback to the fundamentals. which was an capitalize," said Corrigan. "But if we their attackers for scoring opportunities. 
area the Irish were having problems 
turn the ball over and only make them "Ohio Sate has been playing reallywith. 
play defense for short spans, then they well of late, scoring a lot of goals, nearly 
"This week we stepped back and 
will gain confidence and make things 20 a game," Corrigan said. 
worked on the things that we work on in harder for us." Ohio State is lead by scoring leadersthe first weeks of practice. We'd gotten Coach Corrigan will turn to junior Tom Holzer and David Blue. Other than 
away from the fundamentals, and 
attacker Randy Colley, who needs only those two individuals, only live Buckeyes
there's nothing more important than two goals to break the Notre Dame including midfielder Brendan Maher
them, and that's my fault," said coach record for must goals-in a season, a have scored. 
Kevin Corrigan. 
mark he set last year. The midfield, an The Buckeyes are led by a strong"This week, as I saw the fundamentals area the Irish have been outplayed at midfield that has played together forreturning, so did our aggressiveness on lately, will have to be controlled by ju­three years and are experienced enough both offense and defense, along with our niors Billy Ahmuty, who ranks second in to provide the Irish with a few problems. 
offensive spontaneity. We working 
career ground balls with 193, and Willie 
see LACROSSE/ page 21 
Baseball travels to MCC foe Evansville 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
A tough weekend is ahead for the 24th-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (24-8) as the Irish travel to Evansville to take on the Purple Aces (23-12). 
The four-game Midwestern Collegiate Conference series features a rematch of the MCC championship game from the last three years. Evansville took the title in 1990. but the Irish have won it in the last two years. Notre Dame leads the MCC while Evansville is looking for some wins over the Irish to climb back into contention from fourth place. 
Notre Dame is 15-1 in the MCC and Evansville is 7-5. Last weekend, the Irish swept a four-game series against Duquesne while Evansville dropped three of four to Detroit-Mercy. 
Evansville will definitely be looking for some wins from the Irish, according to Irish coaeh Pat Murphy. 
"They're probably tired of us beating them. It's a hostile environment down there," said Murphy. "Evansville at home is a very tough club." 
The Aces are 12-3 at Bosse Held in Evansville this season, with bi!} wins over Indiana, Louisville and Western Kentucky. Evansville will also be fired up to beat the Irish because head coach Jim Brownlee is just one win away from his 400th career victory. 
Senior Aaron Gries is one of Evansville's hottest hitters with a .307 average and 25 runs batted in. Gries went 7 for 14 with four runs scored against Detroit Mercy last weekend. His 16 extra-base hits this season are more than he has had in any previous year. Gries is also dangerous on the basepaths with a team-leading 13 stolen bases. 
The Aces will count on Marty Watson (.366, 36 HBI. 12 IIHl. Pat Schultz (.361, 22 HBI) and Sal Fasano (.350, 29 HBI) for more power at the plate. 

0[1!]~000~ SPORTS 

WOMEN'S TRACK 
SAINT MARY'S COVERAGE 
Stefanie Jensen leads the Roundups of the Belles latest 
Irish at the Drake relays. softball and tennis matches. 
s 
see page 22 see pages 21 and 20 
I 
l 
BOOKSTORE TOURNEYS Coverage and brackets of the final eight teams in both the men's and women's tournaments. 
see pages 19 and 18 











