The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 104 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1993 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S , 

Standoff

U.S. stages third relief mission over Bosnia 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The the Balkan region, contending 
•Serb attacks/ page 5 
Clinton administration on it is significant they participate with cult Tuesday hailed Russia's an­"in this kind of humanitarian 
nounced participation in the NATO Secretary General mission, essentially changing 
Bosnian airdrop as a milestone Manfred Woerner, after a as a result of the end of the 
continues 

of post-Cold War cooperation. meeting with President Clinton, Cold War as our military has WACO. Tex.as (AP) An"It's very important that they also welcomed Russia's partici­changed." 
armed religious cult's leaderparticipate," Pentagon pation. "I think this is a good 

said he would surrender

spokesman Bob Hall told re­signal," Woerner told reporters Defense Secretary Les Aspin, Tuesday and end a siege thatporters. "They have a tremen­in the White House driveway. speaking with reporters on has killed at least six, but thedous military capability." "And from the talks I just had, I Capitol Hill, termed the air­standoff dragged on well into During the past two nights, know that the new drops a "great success" be­its third day. 
six C-130 transport planes have administration sees it the same cause they had resulted in the 
A newspaper reported

dropped 38.3 tons of food and way." Serbs allowing land convoys to Tuesday that the death tollmedicine over eastern Bosnia, Woerner said NATO also was reach isolated regions. 
from Sunday's rom battles atthe latest drop to the region of playing an active role in the Aspin said the third airdrop 

Zepa, Hall said. It is the most Balkan crisis "and we are pre­taking place Tuesday night 
• FBI efforts/ eaae 5 

direct U.S. intervention so far pared to do more if the United might be the last for a while the Rra:rich Davidian com· in the conflict among the war­Nations gives us a mandate." because humanitarian aid was 
pound may be at least 11. 

ring factions of former Yu­Hall pointed out that the Rus­now reaching th-e region by 
AP/Carl Fox 
Authorities have said four 

goslavia. sians have "major interests" in land. 
federal agents and at least two people inside the com­pound were killed.


Students help 
The Houston Chronicle, quoting. unidentified sowces,


in hurricane 
reported that children released from the compound said at least seven people


relief effort 
inside were killed in the fire 

By THERESA ALEMAN 
fight. The new~paper, in its 

afternoon editions, also said agents believed they had After the extensive media 
News Writer 
killeQ; as many as.15 peopl~. coverage of the Miami hurri­
A state source, who spoke cane disaster ended, the need 
on condition Of anonymity, for aid and repairs remained, 
told The Associated Press he according to Tyler Farmer, 
had heard that seven cult Morrissey Hall sophomore and 
members had died and up to volunteer in extended Miami 
40 people had been wounded. hurricane relief efforts. 
Officials have said about 7 5 A group of 'eleven Notre 
people were ln the compound, Dame students spent last fall 
but cult leader· David Koresh break repairing homes dam­
has claimed more. aged in Miami's Hurricane An­
In a 58-minute taped state­drew late last year. 
.ment })roadcast Tuesday on A group of fourteen Notre 
Texas radio stations at the Dame students and one Saint 
FBI's request, the cult leader Mary's student organized by 
said: "t David Koresh, agree Farmer, will return to Florida 
upon the broadcasting ()f' this over spring break to help vic­
tape to come out peacefully tims of the hurricane repair 
with all the people Photo courtesy of Tyler Farmer their damaged homes. 
immediately." Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students fill a water tower at a hurricane relief sight in Miami over October In the fall, the students re­
"Even. a man like ChriJ:;t has Break. They are returning to Miami as part of the Neighbors Helping Neighbors Program which continues to paired four roofs, replanted up-
to meet with unbelief/' said 
Koresh.

assist victims of Hurricane Andrew. 
see RELIEF I page 1 

Keane: Peace in Northern Ireland 


Coughlin: Corporations attainable only through representation 
manipulate agreement 
By SARAH DORAN "When you look at the best raise the ire of Irish 

By SEAN SULLIVAN sound appealing, it is actually a News Writer way to facilitate this. it is Americans. 
News Writer deceptive catch phrase in re­evident that you cannot bayf.l "It is time for 
gards to NAFTA. peace without representath:rn/'• Americans •to lobby 
The North American Free "Free trade," said Coughlin,Any sort of peace is impossi­Keane cited the massive hu­American government. They 
Trade Agreement (NAFTA) al­is a way that American com­ble to achieve without repre­man rights violations that are must raise the issue of human 
lows corporations to undermine panies can avoid labor regula­sentation and inclusive "commonplace" in the six ri~h~ abuses.ln or4~r to~ro~ 
the democratic process, accord­tions such as minimum wage,dialogue in government, ac­counties ()f Northern Ireland mot(! the dialogue that can/ 
ing to Ginny Coughlin, the Na­job safety laws and child labor cording to Mairead Keane, a as evidence that the situation lead to peace in Northern · tional Campus Organizer for laws by moving their operations representative of the outlawed is in dire need of a peaceful Ireland," said Keane. 
the Democratic Socialists of to third world countries such as Sinn Fein political party of solution. lrrlight ofthe ne~ (.;lin 
America. Mexico. Northern Ireland. Until the A recent· example of the vio­administration. this 
awaren 
"NAFTA is a corporate moti­Coughlin pointed out that this government formally lations is found in· the actions is more than ever keyto an at­
vated strategy to gain control of practice goes on now between recognizes all its political of the British agent Nelson, ac~ tainable peace. 
international trade," said Mexico and America. American parties, the wartorn situation cording to Keane. Nelson S!}t "The IrishAmeric3.f11obh 
Coughlin. companies already move of Northern Ireland will per­up assassins and conspired to ists are on his (Clinton' 
NAFTA is pending legislation operation plants south of the sist, she said. bring in arms from South agenda, as is peace 
meant to lower international border to produce unfinished Stressing the need for the Africa that were used to Northern Ireland. 
trade barriers between many goods.representation of Sinn Fein assassinate innocent make sure<that he stays witJl: 
different countries including She described a trip she took and all political parties, Keane nationalists on the streets of the agenda and · 
Mexico and the United States. to the Mexican border town of addressed the Northern Northern Ireland, she said. He awareness should make him> 
According to Coughlin, if Matamoros, Mexico, where Ireland Awareness Group on ~escaped" with an extremely do so. He can then use the 
NAFTA is passed by the U.S. prominent American companies "Prospects for Peace in small punishment. special rf}l~tionship .·. 
congress it will greatly lower such as Zenith, Converse and Northern Ireland" last night. "The British are not neuttal America has with Britain to the standard of living in third General Motors have operationKeane, the director of Sinn in the Irish problem. There bring about peace," she said.·· 
world countries at the expense plants that produce unfinished Fein's women and education are over 700 political Sinn Fein,.which is the sec~ 
of American jobs. goods.department, is currently tour+ prisoners between England ond largest]ilolitical pa,rty Jn • Coughlin says that while the ing the United States with the and Ireland because of the Belfast, in ~oordination with .·· 
see NAFTA I page 1

concept of "free trade" mayintent of increasing support British presence," she said. its peace awareness 
and attaining representation Keane's speakfng tour is de­
prerogative, has widelr ·• 

Vote Today
for the party, which she sees signed to lead to peace in the submitted peace prijposals 
as a necessary· component for country because it will that ·advocate the represen'" 
Run-off elections for Elections for Saint Mary's
achieving peace in Northern increase the awareness and tation of all political parties to Sophomore and Junior class Residence Hall AssociationIreland. concern that is necessary to governments, political parties; ) officers are today from 11 officers are today. Students
"We want the British and gain the support to rid the non~governmental or• 
a.m. to 1 p.m....,and 5 to 7 p.m. can vote in the Le Mans sideDublin governments to make country of British control, she ganizations, and other groups Off campus students can vote of the dining hall today during British withdrawal from said. around the world, according to at the LaFortune Information regular lunch and dinnerIreland the priority," she said. Namely. Keane intends to Keane. 
Desk during the same hours. hours. 


·------------------. 
page 2 Wednesday, March 3,1993
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Mary must go 
How many of us can say that we are 18 feet tall and covered in gold? Not only is she covered in gold but she has a great view. She can watch the Irish 


take on the Wolverines Kevin Hardman 
while simultaneously Ad Design 
monitoring the line at Manager 
the Hammes -------­
Bookstore. 
Since 1879, Mary has held this lofty position. One hundred twelve years later she is still there. Mary has worn out her welcome though. It is about time that she comes down and makes room for the future. 
I envision bright lights illuminating Northern Indiana for miles around. I envision neon. Pink, purple and florescent orange. I envision massive glass rods spelling out "The University of Notre Dame du lac: A National Catholic Research University," for everyone to see. 
I envision a massive ceremony for Mary's replacement. A gala event for all to attend. Celebrities, entertainment, food, and music. Mary will be lifted from her post by helicopter while "The University of Notre Dame du lac: National Catholic Research University," falls to its place to the countdown of the crowd. Three, two, one, zero...... the end of an era. 
A simple neon sign atop our dome isn't enough. Every alternating three seconds the sign will turn on then subsequently turn off. The sign will initially be pink, but will change to purple then florescent orange on seven second increments. Every twenty seconds, "The University of Notre Dame du lac" portion of the sign will flash at a rate twice that of the "National Catholic Research University" portion of the sign. This flash rate difference will last ten seconds, at which time the sign will begin its cycle again. 
The sign will fall under the jurisdiction of a select subcommittee. This subcommittee will explore different colors and flash rates to be used so the sign doesn't get too monotonous, too boring. The subcommittee will meet biweekly and present a report to the Board of Trustees every half year. 
"What has become of Mary?" you ask. She will be placed in a corner of the Debartolo Hall Computer Cluster. Her presence there will remind all who sit, huddled at their computers, of the Catholic nature of our school. 
The University of Notre Dame du lac-The University of Our Lady of the Lake. The "Lady" that Father Sorin was referring to was the mother of God. The holiest human ever to live. Her presence on our dome is so easily overlooked. ller likeness appears on posters, shirts and NBC football broadcasts, but the more she is marketed the more she is forgotten. 
Our university is slowly losing its Catholic identity. In our attempt to become a "National Catholic Research University," we are losing sight of our mission. We are a community 'oined by our Catholic faith in Mary and her son Jesus. If we ignore this foundation Notre Dame will lose its purpose. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Today's Staff 
Systems

News 
Harry Zembillas 

Frank Rivera Sarah Doran Sports
Lisa Wolter George Dohrmann 
Production 
Lab Tech

Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki Scott Mendenhall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
NATIONAL Weather 

WARM STATIONARY 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cool with a 60 percent chance of light rain. Cloudy and cool tomorrow with a 60 percent chance of light rain. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  34  27  
Atlanta  63  44  
Bogota  68  50  
Cairo  90  6t  
Chicago  45  33  
Cleveland  42  25  
Dallas  50  48  
Detroit  42  28  
Indianapolis  44  33  
Jerusalem  66  50  
London  41  36  
Los Angeles  65  49  
Madrid  50  27  
Minneapolis  42  19  
Moscow  27  10  
Nashville  58  44  
New York  43  33  
Paris  39  36  
Philadelphia  44  28  
Rome  57  46  
Seanle  46  40  
South Bend  41  28  
Tokyo  50  37  
Washington, D.C.  50  31  


VIa Associated Press 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Britain's leading clarinetist. Janet Hilton, will give a concert Wednesday at 1 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. 

• 
A representative of the PIRGs (Public Interest Research Groups), Julie Peters, will be conducting an informational session on Wednesday at 6 p.m. in Hayes­Healy Room 223, and a presentation on Thursday at 6 


p.m. in the esc coffee house. 
• Sophomore Service Plunge sign-ups are Wednesday from 1:30 to 3 p.m. and Thursday from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. in the sophomore class office, LaFortune. The Plunge is scheduled for March 20, from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 290,586,450 +2.78 to 246.54 S&P COMPOSITE +5.89 to 447.90 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +45.12 to 3,400.53

UNCHANGED 559 GOLD + $1.20 to $330.50 /oz 

SILVER + $0.05 to $3.563/oz 
-Simon and Garfunkel made nostalgia pay for needy children with a rare reunion performance. Paul Simon and Art . Garfunkel played in a benefit that raised $1 million for the Los Angeles Children's Health Project. "You've done your part ­now it's up to us," Simon told the crowd as he introduced Young, who opened the show at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion. The Children's Health Project is a traveling health program for homeless youngsters al­ready established in several other cities. The project was organized by The Children's Health Fund, created in 1987 by Simon and a doctor. 
INDIANA 


• SKOWHEGAN, Maine -A former Indiana man who admitted to trying to kill his grandfather by lethal injection last spring has been ordered to serve five years of a 12­year prison sentence for attempted murder. Under terms of his sentencing, Edward Fraize, 20, of Mercer also must serve four years of probation upon his release and undergo psychiatric and substance abuse counseling. Fraize was arrested last April after family members told police the young man had substituted a bleach and ammonia mixture for the insulin solution used by his grandfather, 75-year-old Hubert Greaney of Mercer. 
• 
The University of Notre Dame orchestra will perform its annual concert Thursday at 8 p.m. in Wash­ington Hall. 

• 
The Sophomore Literary Festival needs en­thusiastic people to work on next year's festival commit­tee. Applications are available in SUB on the 2nd floor of LaFortune and are due Friday. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1849: The Home Department, forerunner of the Interior Department, was established. 

• 
In 1879: Belva Lockwood became the first woman to be admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court. 

• 
In 1931: "The Star-Spangled Banner" officially became the national anthem of the United States. 

• 
In 1969: Apollo 9 blasted off from Cape Kennedy on a mission to test the lunar module. 

• 
In 1974: Nearly 350 people died when a Turkish Airlines DC-1 0 crashed shortly after takeoff from Orly Airport in Paris. 

• 
In 1991 : Motorist Rodney King was severely beaten by Los Angeles police officers after a high-speed chase in a scene captured on home video. 


Wednesday, March 3, 1993 The Observer 
page 3 

Investigation of terrorist groups, van wreckage continues 
NEW YORK (AP) -Investiga­tors combing the World Trade Center bombing site said Tues­
day_ they were foc.using ~n ter­
ronst groups, mcludmg a Palestinian organization that al­legedly threatened to set off a bomb here a month ago. 
"We're looking at several groups. 1 wouldn't want to name the groups. I'd probably leave some out," said James 
Fox, head of the FBI's New York office. 
Pieces of a van were recov­ered from the garage where the bomb went off Friday, although Fox's office wouldn't comment further on a reported link between the vehicle and the blast that killed at least five people. 
"If it was a car bomb, it may very well have been a van bomb," Fox said without elabo­
• FBI efforts/ page 5 
rahon. The names of two groups 
came up in response to ques­tions at the news conference: the Popular Front for the Lib­eration of Palestine, an extrem­ist Palestinian group, and Hamas, a Muslim fundamental­ist group that has opposed ne­gotiations with Israel. 
In a Jan. 22 phone call to the 
U.S. Embassy in Algeria, someone claiming to represent the PFLP threatened a bombing in New York City within 48 hours unless Palestinian-depor­tees were returned to Israel, Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said. 
A second call two days later extended the deadline to Jan. 26, which passed without inci-

Interested In Volunteerin!!? 
Stop by the SURV office during our office hours to get more information: Monday 2:15-5:00 Tuesday 11:00-3:00 Wednesday 12:00-2:00 Thursday 2:30-4:00 Friday 3:00-4:30 
or letTVe a message on our machine anytime! 
250 Haggar • x5368 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY Ann "Potter Babe" LOVE, YOUR FELLOW CRIMINALS 
dent. Kelly said such a threat was not uncommon in New York, and that authorities re­
ceive 10 to 12 a year.
In reply to a question about Hamas, Fox said: "That's a group with a known propensity for violence. That's a group we're looking at, one of several groups." 
Earlier, FBI spokesman Joe Valiquette said the investigation wasn't focused on a single group. He wouldn't comment on published reports about a Serbian connection. 
While investigators searched for clues and suspects, authori­ties took another approach in the search for the bombers: a $200,000 reward, the biggest in city history, for information leading to their arrest and con­viction. 
Four days after the blast, families of the-victims buried their dead and officials an­nounced plans for a "small and symbolic" memorial at the World Trade Center. But one man believed lost in the explo­sion suddenly resurfaced. 
Another person remained missing. 


T. I k "th d t • t 
I a s WI accuse errons group dl"sclosed suspended 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The United States had maintained until recently "a variety of con­tacts" with the Muslim funda­mentalist group Hamas, which the State Department is linking with terrorism in an upcoming report, a spokesman said Tuesday. 
The contacts by U.S. diplo­mats in the Middle East "go back some time," said Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman. The contacts dealt with developments in the Is­lamic world. 
Responding to reporters' questions, he said the U.S. Em­bassy in Jordan recently had been instructed "not to con­tinue those contacts." Boucher said he did not know why. 
It was learned, meanwhile, that U.S. diplomats in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv also had been in touch with Hamas, which took responsibility for fa­tal attacks on Israeli troopers in the occupied territories late 




SHENANIGANS 
is looking for a piano player to help with rehearsal & performances. 
If interested ca//4x7346 
, 
last year. 
Israel responded to the vio­lence in December by deporting to Lebanon 415 Palestinians suspected of links to Hamas. A few were repatriated as having been misidentified. 
A total of 396 remain in tents in south Lebanon, their deten­tion cited by Palestinian nego­tiators as reason for resisting 
U.S. efforts to reopen a Mideast peace conference in Washing­ton. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Russian For­eign Minister Andrei Kozyrev announced last week in Geneva, Switzerland, invita­tions would be issued anyhow. The other participants in the negotiations are Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria. 
In a report on terrorism due 
April 1, the State Department 
discusses a number of terrorist 
acts committed by Hamas in 
1992, officials said. "This 
group's violent activities in­
creased dramatically during 
1992 and the group used in­
creasingly lethal tactics, such 
as roadside explosives and car 
bombs," the Office to Counter­
Terrorism said. 
Hamas was formed in 1988 
and its activities did not war­
rant discussion until they in­
creased dramatically in num­
ber and sophistication last year, 
the office said. 
Boucher explained the con­
tacts this way: "We don't have 
a political dialogue with 
Hamas, and given the current 
situation, we have instructed 
our embassy not to continue 
those contacts." 
Bouchser said, meanwhile, the United States did not main­tain similar contacts with the Palestine Liberation Organiza­
tion.

IN 4N 
Wanna Score? Bookstore Basketball XXII 

Late Sign-Ups ($1 0/ Team) This Year You're GeHing More! Tuesday &Wednesday, March 2 &3 •More, Bigger & Better Prizes 
•Tremendous Publicity and Updates 
6-9 p.m. 

• Professional Referees (elite eight?) 
Thursday, March 4 
•Court Conditions (painted lines, etc ... we still can't 
11-1 p.m. 

promise sunshine) 
Presents 


2nd Floor LaFortune •Possible Celeb Announcer (championship day) 2 Captains and 2 Team names •And More 
Abso~VlE DEAd~~NE 

WE NEEd YouR HElp To BREAk n-IE RECORd AppRox. 500 TEAMs ARE REqisTEREd As of MoNdAy Niq~-n







pec1a 
Friday March 5th SAVE $6.50 
off Ticket Price with College ID Doors Open 7pm • Show Starts 7:30 


You've worked hard and now it's time to relax and have fun!
St. Patrick's Day Party with Register Wednesdav
Keep these things in mind during your vacation: "You don't have to be drunk to be impaired-even one or 
two drinks affect your driving skills.

The Oliver 

and Thursday in the 
·Drinking, drugs, and driving don't mix. ·Take your turn -be a designated driver and get everyone where they are going safely. 

dining halls and 
"Respect other_l)Cople's right, and your own-to choose not to drink. There'sjlenty of fun to be had without alcohol. 

Lafortune for a
"Respect state laws an campus policies. "Don't let your friends drive impaired-it's one o£.the
5655 St. Joe Rd., Fort Wayne, IN 46835 
fastest ways to end a friendship. 

drawing to win a 

"Wear your seat belts-it's your best protection against an impaired driver.

Call 219-486-1979 
car and other 
Play it safe. Beealll!e memories are only fond ifyou have them. For more information contact: Office of Alcohol & Drug Education­631-7970 

great prizes! 


A Spring Break to Remember 
~ 
page 4 
The Observer/Sue Kehias 
Dancin' fools 

Cavanaugh Hall freshman Ryan Burke, Breen Phillips Hall freshman Cristine Willard and Breen Phillips senior Kim Smith join professional musicians Liza and Mark Woolerer in Longways Dancing yesterday in the Architecture Building. The event takes place every other Tuesday. 


server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 

Applicants should have Apple Macintosh and computer networking experience. Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Patrick Barth by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 3. Contact Patrick at 1-7471 for more information. 

-~--~------~----------------·~-~-------------. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 3, 1993 
same program. cal Company." Students will camp at Gould's Coughlin claims that these
Relief 

Park in a southern Miami sub­companies take advantage of urb and while they volunteer Mexico's high unemployment
continued from page 1 

their services their meals will rate by paying their workers $3rooted plants and volunteered 
be donated. a day . 
• at a neighborhood Head Start The students will leave this She showed a video revealing
program allowing adults to 
Thursday and Friday. that the workers of these com­
work on the roof reconstruc­
"The damage was substantial panies live in cardboard
tion. Students expect to do 
and they still need quite a bit of shantee towns near to the
more of the same work over help," said Farmer. "People companies. With no environ­
spring break. 

forget about· the damage when mental restrictions, these com­
The group worked closely 
they don't see it every night on panies are constantly dumping
with Notre Dame graduate 
the news. We're confident this toxic waste. Their worknrs areCraig Oliphant, a Kansas busi­trip will be just as rewarding as thus exposed to the hazardousnessman who moved to Miami the first trip." waste both in the work areaafter what was intended to be a and in their makeshift houses. 
short trip to help his grand­
If NAFTA is passed by themother with repairs. 
U.S. it will allow thesn practices
NAFTA

Oliphant and The Neighbors to take place on a greater scale,Helping Neighbors program of 
continued from page 1 she said.
the Miami CBS network 
"Unfortunately," said Cough­affiliate asked the students to "American companies are the lin, "NAFTA represents corpo­return. American Airlines worst offenders," said Cough­rate capitalism's vision for thedonated fifteen airline tickets lin. "And one of the worst sin­21st century." 
to the students through the gle offenders is Stepan Chemi-

Stunmer ded 



II~lft;~~,;ca
in~· 
Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 

Work • Share • Live • Learn 
Write or call:

You can have a summer full of adventure Amigos de las Americasand personal growth while improving 
5618 Star Lane
healthfor people of Latin America... 
Houston. Texas 77057
Volunteer! 800/231-7796 Application deadline has just 

APPLY TODAY! 


Celebrate St. Patrick's Day at the only official IRISH club in town! 
Must be 21 

page 5 
FBI juggling two major cases 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The FBI juggled management of two crises Tuesday and joined a lesser-known federal agency in efforts to end the armed standoff with a Texas religious cult and to identify the bombers of the World Trade Center. 
Round-the-clock command posts were manned at the FBI's 
J. Edgar Hoover Building here and several blocks away at headquarters of the far smaller Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF). 
The FBI's command center is equipped with two rooms to enable officials to manage more than one crisis at a time, such as the simultaneous riots in 1987 by Cuban inmates at fed­eral prisons in Atlanta and Oakdale, La. 
ligious sect. 
nancial district. 
The FBI is 
in several states. 

1kldfu1=Dx 
Your 1§.!!Stop in TEXAS 
~ountr~ &Western an~ ~ance Music 

************* 
835 S. Sam Houston Ave. 409/295-3858 
NEW YORK (AP) -NBC ousted Michael Gartner as president of the news division today, making him the first casualty of the "Dateline NBC" debacle. 
Gartner, 54, a former Wall Street Journal editor and owner of several Iowa newspapers, said he would resign as president and leave the network on Aug. 
1. The resignation was also announced briefly on the network's "Today" show. 
"Given the publicity of late, I think it best to announce it now in hopes that this will take the spotlight off of all of us and enable us to concentrate fully on our business," Gartner wrote in a memorandum to his staff. 
Despite the memo and news accounts that Gartner was resigning, NBC President and Chief Executive Officer Robert Wright had demanded Gartner's resignation over the weekend, according to an NBC source, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
"The truth of the matter is that Michael did have discussions with both Bob (Wright) and (Executive Vice President for Employee Relations) Ed Scanlon, where he was asking 'Should I stay or should I go?' 
"The answer was, 'You go."' 
Don Browne, executive vice president of NBC News, will take over Gartner's responsibilities and a search for Gartner's successor will begin immedi­ately, NBC said. 
Browne insisted that Gartner's resignation wasn't a consequence of the rigged General Motors truck crash staged by "Dateline NBC," which prompted a GM lawsuit and NBC's on-air apology to settle it. 
"I think Michael stepped up to this himself," Browne said. "He felt that in order for NBC News to keep moving, he was going to have to decide. It was too distracting to the organization." 
Gartner said late last year he told his family, friends and NBC that he intended to leave between Aug. 1, his fifth anniver­sary in the job, and Oct. 25, his 55th birthday. 
NBC executives, meanwhile, expect to receive the results of an internal investigation of the GM fiasco later this week. ., 
As president of NBC's news division for five years, Gartner was criticized for slashing its budget, naming the alleged victim in the William Kennedy Smith rape trial and mishandling the "Today" show 
change from Jane Pauley to Deborah Norville. 
But Gartner's career apparently was finally undone by NBC's ill­fated "Dateline NBC" report Nov. 17 on the alleged dangers of GM pickup trucks with side-mounted fuel tanks. 
NBC issued an on-air apology last month for rigging a fiery test crash with tiny model rocket engines. The apology came after GM slapped the network with a defamation lawsuit. 
tntiJ~ ~~~~s Els Naq N~\Ais ...• ·.• i ........... . 
',f{jifljit~~~,' 
·®~b.tot1r9nts, · 
•.• Oct.17, 1989: NBC lags behind 
•• competttors in coverage of the San Francisco earthquake and reports 
incorrectly that asecond freeway had collapsed. 
Dec. 29, 1989: Jane Pauley leaves Today show after 13 years, amid criticism that NBC was pushing her out for the younger, flashier Deborah Norville. 
Aprll16, 1991: NBC crRicized for 

being the only television network to identify the woman who accused William Kennedy SmRh of rape.  
Feb. 9, 1993: NBC apologizes for rigging a GM pickup truck wRh model rockets for video accompanying a Dateline NBC report on alleged dangers of the vehicle's gas tanks. Video showed truck catching fire afler collision.  
Feb. 24, 1993: NBC apologizes for "inadvertent" use of avideo in a report charging that overcutting timbar in an Idaho forest was endangering fish. The misleading video showed fish stunned for testing purposes and dead fish from another forest.  
APIWm. J. Castello 


2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 
272,6722 Se1T!i.ng t1ie 'J{ptrt 'Dame communityfor over30 !Jtllrs 
"Shake Baby, Shake Baby, 1,2,3,4···" 
Happy Birthday Michelle! Love, The E·Mail Gang: Sheri, Janie, 8 Suzanne 

The Observer Wednesday, March 3, 1993
page 6 
Space Station ready for occupancy by year 2000, with $1.3 billion overrun 
WA.."iHlNGTON CAP) -Space Station Freedom will wind up costing $31.3 billion-$1.3 billion more than planned ­and won't be ready for permanent occupancy by astronauts until June in the year 2000. NASA ofllcials told Congress on Tuesday. 
The estimate was based on current plans for the station ­and did not take into account a White Bouse-directed redesign that has just gotten w1der way. 
Space station officials were summoned before the House space subcommittee to explain a potential cost overrun in the next two years of $1.08 billion. 
Arnold Aldrich, associate administrator for space fiight development, said that ('stimate is one "we do not now accept." 
Through refining the esti­mates, stretching out the pro­gram, and making technical and managerial changes. he said, the three-year cost·over· run projection now is $503 million. He said NASA expects to bring the overrun down fur­ther. 

i!:CLUB 
Juniors! 
Apply today for bartender positions! 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune. 
Deadline: March 19, 1993. 
Spring Break Loan 
• $300 minimum, $300 maximum 
• Deferred payments 
• 9.3% APR 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
"Good For You" 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University 
"We are going to build this program within the budget we get from Congress," he de­clared. 
The space agency was forced to revise its date for a perma­nently occupied station in orbit because Congress cut NASA's 1993 funds for the project by $150 million from the expected $2.25 billion, he said. To cope with a continued cutbacks of that size each year, Aldrich said, ofticials are stretching the construction program by nine months. 
The new timetable, if it is not disturbed by design changes and other delays, will have the first construction flight to March 1996, four months be­hind schedule, said Richard Kohrs, NASA space station program director. Freedom should be up and running, ready for periodic astronaut visits by June 1997, six months late, and the permanent status in 2000 will represent a nine month delay. 
Aldrich said alarming rise in estimated costs, particularly in work under supervision of the Johnson Space <::enter in Houston, was due to manage­ment problems caused by the last major redesign in 1991. contractors charging more be­cause of their declining aerospace business, and design changes. 
"I wish I could say with cer­tainty that we understand how the cost growth occurred and have found a siniple way to prevent this from reoccurring in this or any other program," Aldrich said. 
"In hindsight. it appears that the program's effort to main­tain the tight schedule inadver­tently increased the near-term costs and· tn particular forced (the Johnson work package). to increase its manpower levels." 
Aldrich $aid if N{\SA had slipped lts construction mile· stones by an additional three to six montb~:~la$t fall, tbe overruns probably would not have occurred. 
Twenty congressmen spoke at the hearing, many of them chastising NASA for the ovEJ:r· runs. 
Congo ferry accident kills 
14 7 
BRAZZAVILLE, Congo (AP} ­Witnesses and government television accused a ferry cap­tain Tuesday of pulling away from the dock prematurely, causing at least 147 people to tumble into the Congo River and drown. 
The victims of Sunday's acci­dent were mainly Zairians try­ing to beat a Friday deadline Congo set for illegal aliens to leave the country. said it had occurred earlier tn:t' 
Thousands of Zairians were day. Thirty-three bodies were lined up to get onto the 200-recovered from the river late passenger ferry for the 20-Monday and another 114 on minute ride across the river to Tuesday. Kinshasa, Zaire's capital, when Diplomats reached from Ivory 
a gangway collapsed and Coast said it appeared Congo scores of people fell into the initially tried to cover up details fast-moving river, police said. of the accident to prevent a 
It was one of the world's confrontation with Zaire, where worst river ferry disasters in President Mobutu Seko's 
years. refusal to give up power has Police did not report the acci­touched off military-led riots dent until Monday, and initially and looting three times in the past two years. 
The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Literary Critic Movie Critic Music Critic Weekly Columnist 
lease submit a one-page statement of intent, resume, and a writing sample (does not have to be published) to Kenya johnson by 9 p.m., Thursday, March 4, 1993. For more information about any of the positions call Kenya at 631-4540. 

ACourse In 
Economics. 
Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality 
,-------lr-------J~-------l 
:$1.00 Off: :$5.00 Off: :200/o Off : 
: Haircut :: Penn ::An Haircarei 
I I I I I
1 With student 1.0. 1 1 With student LD. With student lo 
No double d1scounls No double d1scoun1s I I N I
I reg. $8.95 I I I I 0 double diSCounts I 
I II I I I 
L_Maste~J LJYia~rC~_J L-~~J 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Reg1s Corpora110n 199~ 

277-3770 
----~--------~. 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 3, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager....•... Colleen Evale Viewpoint Editor.••..•............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••.... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Who determines what is Catholic at Notre Dame? 
Dear Editor:  "Catholic" nature of a Catholic  discussion of the statistics at  no elected African-American,  Catholics need to be recruited  
I am writing to make the un­ identity. The purpose of my let­ Notre Dame appearing in the  Hispanic or Native American  for what ends: Leonardo Boff,  
dergraduate and graduate stu­ ter is not to engage in the cam­ Notre Dame Report (November  professors sit on PAC. So who  Pat Buchanan, Mario Cuomo,  
dents of Notre Dame aware that  pus debate over what is  22,1992) these figures were  decides what is Catholic accord­ Bernadette Devlin, Barry  
my good colleague the Rev­ "Catholic."  described as follows: "these  ing the the strategies listed by  Goodinson, Theodore Hesburgh,  
erend Wilson D. Miscamble  Instead, I wish to put a differ­ percentages suggest that over  Father Miscamble? Over­ Bishop Hunthausen, Ted  
C.S.C. (associate professor,  ent problem before the stu­ all ranks, Notre Dame in 1990  whelmingly senior white-male  Kennedy, Frances Kissling,  
History) has circulated a docu­ dents: Who decides at Notre  has not yet reached the levels  faculty.  Hans Kung, Madonna, Mother  
ment entitled Constructing a  Dame what/who is Catholic?  achieved, on average, by our  What are the entrenched in­ Teresa, Rigoberta Menchu,  
Great Catholic University­ That is a question we can begin  peer institutions a decade  terests of this powerful group?  Sinead O'Connor, Pier Paolo  
Some Specific Proposals to the  to answer together even within  earlier." Read in raw numbers  Obviously there are differences  Passolini, Pope Paul, Anne  
faculty of Notre Dame.  the confines of this letter, be­ these statistics mean that there  within it but a working answer  Quindlan, Mary Robinson,  
The five-page document  cause my question has to do  are only 40 tenured women on  can be had from the statistics.  Archbishop Romero, Rosemary  
"confronts the question: How is  with issues of power, procedure  a teaching and research faculty  After twenty years of a vigorous  Radford Reuther, Martin  
it to be done?", that is, how to  and governance. Presumably a  composed of 627 professors.  affirmative~action campaign,  Scorsese, Cardinal Weakland.  
build the great Catholic univer­ great Catholic university would  If the status of empowered  the powerful majority of  The dangers of this exercise  
sity called for by the Colloquy  not be a totalitarian one, and  women faculty of this campus  tenured faculty who admit, hire  in deciding who are the real  
report on Academic Life. The  democratic procedures there­ shocks, and it should after the  and promote have failed in their  Catholics on this list should be  
purpose of his recommenda­ fore would be of great im­ University's purportedly vigor­ mission to include women and  apparent; they need to be taken  
tions is not only to strengthen  portance.  ous affirmative action program  minorities in the intellectual life  seriously. As much energy and  
the Catholic character at Notre  Who are the who who will  over the past twenty years,  of Notre Dame.  Power needs to be brought to  
Dame but to enable the univer­ decide on the Catholic charac­ comparable figures are much  Either women and minorities  bear on the ecumenical charac­ 
sity to "aid other institutions in  ter of Notre Dame called for in  worse for minority faculty, male  are not "good enough" or  ter of the University as its  
reclaiming/enhancing/estab­ the Miscamble manifesto?  or female. According to the  "Catholic" enough for Notre  "Catholic" character. Father  
lishing their Catholic identities."  Some insight into this who  Notre Dame Report, there are  Dame, or there are some unex­ Miscamble can help us here by  
A study of specific recom­ who governs here and their in­ five tenured African American  amined and very powerful self­ giving equal space in his report  
mendations contained in the  terests can be gained by looking  faculty on campus, eight His­ interests at work. These self-in­ to theological recommendations  
Miscamble manifesto shows  at the latest affirmative action  panic, and zero Native  terests need to be aired before  as strong as his procedural  
that most of them rely on the  statistics for women faculty at  American.  this who decides how it is to be  recommendations.  
use of standing university  Notre Dame compared to  What do these statistics just  done at Notre Dame over the  I think, contra Nathan  
committees, committees osten­ figures recently presented in an  described have to do with Fa­ next ten years as its builds itself  Hatch,who has been quoted as  
sibly with rules and procedures,  article in the New York Times  ther Miscamble's question: How  into a "great Catholic Univer­ saying that "what we intend has  
for recruiting graduate stu­ (Jan. 24, 1993) critical of the  is it to be done? The statistics  sity."  no exact models," that we do  
dents, hiring and advancing  representation of women  tell us about the who who are  Given the structure of gover­ have some ethical models at  
faculty.  faculty, and crucially, their rate  making the decisions. At Notre  nance it is a who, an empow­ hand. Father Miscamble could  
Another set of recommenda­ of promotion in the Ivy League.  Dame the departmental Com­ ered white-male faculty with a  open fruitful ethical discussion  
tions focusing on the estab­ Please bear in mind that only  mittees of Advancement and  very bad track record for hiring  by delivering a public homily to  
lishment of a Notre Dame Insti­ tenured professors (the cate­ Placement and the depart­ women and minorities, who  the university community which  
tute for Catholic Higher Learn­ gories of "associate" and "full")  mental Graduate Admissions  will, according to the Mis­ meditates on a very useful  
ing would also necessarily rely  can vote on the Committees for  Committee are the committees  camble plan, admit, recruit,  ethical model from the gospel:  
on standing committees with  Advance and Placement (CAP)  involved in graduate admissions  hire and promote the "real"  Mark 3:31-34.  
rules and procedures for  and the Provost Advisory  and in faculty recruitment, hire  Catholics for the "great Catholic  "And his mother and his  
awarding fellowships and  Committee (PAC), the commit­ and promotion (except for  University of Notre Dame" over  brothers came; and standing  
funding for conferences and  tees that take care of hiring and  promotion to full professor, the  the next ten years.  outside they sent to him and  
speakers. Governance on cam­ promoting all faculty.  procedures for which are  Let us construct a short list of  called him. And a crowd was  
pus thus intersects in most  The representation of women  virtually undefined in public  some Catholics and try to  sitting about him; and they said  
ways with the recommenda­ on the faculty at Notre Dame,  university documentation).  imagine the ·rules and proce­ to him 'Your mother and your  
tions of How it is to be done.  especially empowered tenured  Only tenured faculty may  dures-the HOW that dignifies  brothers are outside asking for  
Many faculty uneasy with  women (associate professors  serve on departmental CAP  democratic process in demo­ you.' and he replied, 'Who are  
both the Colloquy and the Mis­ and full professors) is almost  committees, and only full pro­ cratic contexts-to be followed  my mothers and my brothers?'"  
camble report on Catholic  half that of the most recal­ fessors are eligible for election  in the various departmental  
character have voiced their  citrant of the Ivy League uni­ to the five faculty seats open on  CAP committees and the PAC  Kathleen Biddick  
concerns in terms of the diffi­ versities mentioned in the New  the PAC. Only one elected  committee as that WHO of gov­ Assoc. Professor, History  
culties of trying to define the  York Times article. In a recent  woman faculty sits on PAC and  erning faculty decide what  Feb.28,1993  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  

I WIWT 70 THAN!< YDU 
ITS AN AMBIT/OI.E PROGRAM FOR.INVIT//116 M& IN7D 
70 Be 90R&, 8UTI THIN!< 'IOfJR. ffO'rl& ANIJGMNe 
TH& AM&I<JCAN PC{}Pl£AR& 
Me meCHANe& 70 ex­
R&AIJY FOR. CHANGE, FOR. A PlAIN HOtV lfKiG7H131< IQ& 80~ N/3UJ 1?/R&CT/ON/CAN ~lrl7Hl3 RfT!JR&. 
./ 

"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." 
M.L. King, Jr. 

Bring them to justice. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 
j 

Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, March 3, 1993 
Homophobia surfaces as swelling wave of bigotry 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Privacy issue is central in military 
Dear Editor: neither tents, showers, nor I believe that a privacy 
Hecently, there was yet toilets in their packs. expectation is one of the factors another letter about homo­What will happen in such that can seriously affect the sexuals in the military. This units? I would say it. is unwise character of that daily letter, written by Kathryn L. to create various classes who interaction, and therefore, the Smith (The Observer, Feb. 25), can only serve in certain unit's combat effectiveness. once again furthered a popular occupational fields (handi­That there are homosexuals analogy; allowing openly capped persons can perform presently serving honorably is homosexual individuals into the various jobs in the military, yet not disputed, and actually services is the same as ad­it would be ridiculous to recruit irrelevant. Gen. Colin Powell mitting women and racially them for such purposes). This has repeatedly stated that the integrating the services. type of solution does little but reason the unidentified 
This theory fails when one create more problems. homosexuals presently serving considers an issue which I Many people make light of the do not cause a problem is believe is at the core of the privacy issue, yet it is all too because their orientation is not problem yet receives very little real to those who have no known. A unit is not affected attention from those advoeating control over their living until an individual's orientation changing the current policy. I conditions. This is an area becomes public. am referring to the issue of which must be addressed along One can say that a little privacy. While most everyone with the decision about sensitivity training will go a would feel comfortable working allowing openly homosexual long way toward harmonious in an office setting with those of individuals into the military. living. However, if homosexual various orientations, the The orientation of the orientation is not simply a military life has very little in individual next to you when the psychological disorder, all the common with that lived by the enemy is coming through the classes in the world will not rest of society. wire is probably not as make people forget which sex 
Toward the end of her letter, important or relevant as the attracts them. Ms. Smith alluded to how orientation of the individual Privacy from being on display privacy concerns were as­checking you for ticks in the doesn't seem like a serious suaged during the Persian Gulf field, bumping up against you issue when discussed in a War, as "the military made when the seas are rough, or sterile environment. Life, accommodations for male and sharing your bunk on opposite however does not always get female service members who shifts on a submarine. played out as smoothly as a shared sleeping areas and the Combat has been called position paper. In our culture, same shower facilities." This is minutes of sheer terror people do not usually feel precisely the separation and separated by days of absolute comfortable being viewed by respect for privacy con-cerns of boredom. My point here being those who may perceive them which I am speaking. that time spent engaging the as sexually desirable. 
Does she mean to imply that enemy is only a fraction (if it Many outside the armed heterosexuals and homosexuals even occurs) of the time a unit forces say that since regulations will be provided separate spends together. By the time a exist to control behavior, no one sleeping and showering areas? unit arrives in combat, it has has anything to fear. The Not only is this rather spent countless hours training existence of regulations to impractical, there are many and living together. The day-in prohibit conduct of an overtly combat units that do not have and day-out interactions of a sexual nature do nothing to the assets to provide any unit greatly affects how it assuage the uneasiness many privacy because they carry ultimately performs its mission. would feel if forced to live 
It is ironic that just as the country was mourning the death of Thurgood Marshall, an individual who did so much to counter bigotry, another wave of bigotry has surfaced. I am referring, of course, to the big­otry, hate, and violence which has emerged against gay men and lesbians. 
The most proximate cause of this public bigotry has been President Clinton's moves to­wards repealing the ban on gay men and lesbians in the mili­tary. lie has. in other words, tried to ensure that their civil rights are upheld and tried to end the witch hunt which has occurred within the military. The response, especially from the religious right, has been quick and savage. 
First, many military officers, while trying to cover up their hatred (of course some of them say flat out that gay men and lesbians should be expelled or even killed), claim that they op­pose letting them serve openly in the military because of the fear that they will be attacked by others in the military. 
Well, we have indeed seen these attacks. However, it seems to me that commanders should not base their policy on a fear that their subordinates will act in a manner contrary to military order and general de­cency. 
If the homophobes in the military cannot help themselves and start attacking people because of who they are, then it is they, not the gay men and lesbians, who should be ex­pelled from the military. 
Second, many are afraid of letting gay men and lesbians serve in the military (even though they have been doing so for many years) because they think that they will be subject to unwanted advances. 
This is based on an un­founded perception that gay men and lesbians are promis­cuous and unable to control their sexual urges. Rather, it may be that the men (and women) who feel this way have some unresolved issues about their own sexuality. 
In addition, if inappropriate conduct were the arbiter of who stays in the military (as it should be) then there are a lot of men who have harassed women (witness the Tailhook incident as just .one small ex­ample) and who would be kicked out of the service. 
Finally, President Clinton has been criticized for making such a big deal out of the issue. In fact, all he was trying to do was fulfill a campaign promise and put an end to such discrimina­tion in the military. 
It was members of Congress and the religious right who or­ganized a phone campaign to 
DEMOCRACY 
and which is trying to force its views on the rest of society. Many Protestant churches and groups, especially the more fundamentalist variety, are trying to force their bigoted view of morality on the country at large. 
And, it is not only on the issue of homosexuality, although sexuality in general seems to be the overriding concern. Re­cently, Cardinal O'Connor of New York helped to campaign against the head of the public schools who believed that stu­dents should have the facts about sexuality and that, if they chose to be sexually active (and no amount of self-righteous moralizing from the pulpit is going to change that) they should be protected from the possible dangers. 
The religious right has also begun to take over school boards all over the country and impose censorship and its Dark Ages mentality on educational institutions. Abortion is another issue where religious groups (for the most part) are attempt­ing to force their religious views on the rest of society. 
These theocratic impulses are inimical to democracy and the exercise of fundamental human rights. Rebuffing the religious right on the issue of gays in the military is one small step in re­claiming a bit of sanity in our public policy discourse. 
Perhaps the university ad­ministration could take another step by heeding the calls of the Faculty Senate and GSU for recognition of GLND/SMC as one of many valid and useful student organizations. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­didate in the Department of Government and International Studies. 
Kurt Mills 
On The Other Hand 

prevent this from occurring that made it such a big deal. 
Which brings me to another point. It is not just the military where homophobia is rampant. 
There have been physical at­tacks all across the country and attempts to deny gay men and lesbians equal rights in society, such as the failed attempt in Oregon and the successful pas­sage of an anti-gay initiative in Colorado. In both of these states assaults have increased since the initiative began. 
And, it has surfaced in a viru­lent form here at Notre Dame. The university administration has refused to recognize GLND/SMC as an official orga­nization (although the Faculty Senate and Graduate Student Union have called for such recognition), and the pages of The Observer have been filled periodically with hatred and bigotry against homosexuals, as well. 
The basis of all of this hostility comes from homosexuality be­ing regarded as an "objective disorder." This view, in turn. derives from Catholic Church teaching which describes ho­mosexuality as being a sin. 
I wonder how it can be la­beled an objective disorder since this view derives from re­ligion, which is based on faith, which, by its very nature is subjective rather than objective. 

One wonders, moreover, about any group or institution which openly facilitates dis­crimination, hatred and bigotry. Are they institutions which make a positive contribution to a harmonious and equal soeiety where people are respected for who they are rather than reviled, and thus worthy of support? 
Finally, the Catholic Church is not the only religious institution where intolerance is proclaimed 


intimately with those who may find them desirable. 
To refer once again to my earlier hypothetical, I would suspect that if any man were to appear in any women's locker room on campus, the uneasi­ness of those undressed would not be relieved if he were to say, "Have no fear ladies, for DuLac prevents me from having sex with you." Security would be called to escort him out. Why? He is certainly no "threat" to them because they have DuLac as their shield. Could it be that the presence of protective regulations are not enough? 
Most of the countries that people point to as those we should emulate in allowing openly homosexual persons into the armed forces ignore that our culture respects privacy differently than most. When we no longer have problems with men and women living together in every respect, we will have arrived at the point where having openly homosexual individuals in the armed forces will not be detrimental to morale or combat readiness. 
Robert McMonagle Law School Student Feb.26, 1993 


Accent 
Wednesday, March 3, 1993 


Bill Rosemann 
Sucking the Marrow of Life 
Be afraid, be very afraid 
W 
hen I was nine yea~~ old, te;ro,~ had a name: Dynamite magazine. 
The magazine itself was a grand 

publication. I recall with a tear in my eye the cover featuring the regal wookie Chewbacca as their "Alien of the Year." One never knew if the next issue's cover would feature Kristy McNichol or Eric Estrada. No, I did not fear the magazine itself, but one issue in particular. 
This issue featured the chilling but true tale of "The Red Rubber Ball." The story, which I read again and again, transfixed in horror, went like this: A family moved into a new house .at the end of a cul-de-sac (houses on cui­de-sacs always had neat half-circle driveways good for Big Wheels). Soon, they began hearing "thumps" on the stairs leading to the basement. When they would open the basement door, there would be a single red rubber ball. When they'd play ping pong in their basement, they would repeatedly lose the ball in a darkened corner. Out of that murky corner would then roll the dreaded red rubber ball. 
Here's the kicker: they investigated at the library and found out that the former owners of the house had one boy who, while playing on the basement stairs with his red rubber ball, tripped and fell to his death! THE GHOST CHILD WAS ETERNALLY SEARCHING FOR THE PLAYMATE HE NEVER HAD! AAGGGHHH! 
Other things that turned my childhood into a world of terror: 
*The "Gilligan's Island" episode with the Russian spy who ran around in the sheet trying to scare the castaways off the island. 
*Choose Your Own Adventure #3: The Mystery of Castle Rock." I always liked these books because a happy ending wasn't guaranteed, but this one had a number of ghastly endings. One closed with a huge black cat (containing the spirit of the old woman who once lived in the haunted house) lunging for your tongue. 
*The Vincent Price episode of "The Moppet Show." Remember the Phantom of the Moppet Show and his creepy cat fish-like whiskers? 
*Almost any episode of "In Search Of." Particularly the Halloween episode featuring the Screaming Crystal Skull, and any of the "Bigfoot: Kidnapper of the Northwest" episodes. 
*This I know: The writers and producers of "That's Incredible" formed an unholy alliance with the neather realm. In exchange for high ratings, they would air ghost stories at the end of each show, knowing children everywhere would lie in bed afterwards peeing in fear. 
*Why did I think the shadow by my bedroom door was the McDonald's Hamburgler? And why did I think he was coming to steal me? Robbie Hobble (Hamburgler sound effects). 
*My cousin and I delighted in scaring each other so much that we invented a gang of evil food items that plagued our annual visits. From our home states crept the Monster Squad: 
The Connecticut Pancake-an eight foot tall flap jack who, avenging his slaughtered people, craved the flesh of children. He was the leg breaker/hired muscle of the squad. 
The Michigan Liver-a smaller, yet more sinister cube of raw, quivering, brown liver. Interrogation and implements of torture were his specialty. 
The Hopping Noodle-The Kingpin of the squad. He was a single piece of uncooked pasta who could alter his size, hopped around on one anemic, yet untiring leg, and had one eerie, glowing eye. 
Why did I love scaring myself? Because I was a kid, because my imagination was both my greatest weapon and my worst enemy, and because when you are a kid, things do go bump in the night. 
Bill Rosemann is an Observer Accent Columnist whose articles appear every third Wednesday. 
page 9 


/VIR 
''"> 
····--..,. 


The Observer/ Sean Farnan Mary Farrell's photography exhibit, "Portraits of Catholic Workers," will be shown at the CSC through April 2. The exhibit is sponsored by GSU, Student Government, and SUB. 
Catholic worker photo exhibit on display at the esc 
By BEVIN KOVALIK worker, brought Farrell's exhibit to year-long pilgrimage to over 25 
Accent Writer Notre Dame because he feels it is houses across the country in 1989-90. 
important to expose college students Hopefully her exhibit will serve as a 
to the life of the Catholic worker, strong representation of the 
Living saints do exist. They exist in since they are not always aware of all movement because many Catholics the form of the Christians who the available service opportunities. have not been exposed to this type of possess a quality of holiness which Having volunteered himself for the work. "It is a way of visualizing the enables them to lovingly embrace the past eight years, Carrier hopes the lives of the Catholic workers,~ she poverty exhibit opens students' said. "Some people can read about it stricken 'The role of the Catholic eyes to the Catholic or hear about it. but photographs stranger; movement. Carrier urges make a large impact." 
worker is to take 
people who those students who are Farrell's photographs simply help to personal responsibility serious about their portray the life of the Catholic worker, spiritually spirituality to consider al­people with a "deep peace and heal people for our brothers and ternatives to mainstream serenity who embody all that it means living in life after college. "If to be Christian in the world," Carrier
sisters who live without 
loneliness people just take two explained. and despera­their basic needs being years out to do something Catholic workers bring forth tion. They are like this, it will change miracles for the poor and go beyond the Catholic met.' their life forever. The the works of mercy to provide a space workers. --Mary Farrell vocation of the Catholic within their communities to heal 
In hopes of worker becomes an al-people physically and spiritually. v i v i d I y ternative to career," "Homelessness and starvation is portraying the Catholic worker Carrier said. about loneliness and desperation," he movement, the Graduate Student Given Farrell's talents and gifts, said. "People like Mary are concerned Union (GSU) has brought a photo ex­Carrier feels her vocation was to visit with the spiritual dimension of loving hibit to the University, displayed at the Catholic worker houses in the people, as opposed to just doing the Center For Social Concerns (CSC) United States and photograph the service for them." 
workers. "Mary_....;;;_..;,.,__.:...._______ Without the
through April 2. The purpose of the 1 exhibit is to portray the spirituality [Farrell] felt like she 'The people are the presence of the and dedication of Catholic workers 
was called to a life in manJ'festations of the kind of people
serving in communities around the the movement. depicted in Far-country. Through her Catholic movement. It is rell's photographs,
Mary Farrell, the photographer of photography she the movement the exhibit "Portraits of Catholic tried to capture the a human thing. would not be Workers" and founding member of spirit of the M F II possible. "The 
the Dan Corcoran Catholic Worker movement and bring --ary arre people are the 
House in Winona, MN., hopes people forth an awareness," manifestation of will look at her pictures and see each Carrier explained. the Catholic Catholic worker as a gift to the Her involvement --------------movement. It is a movement and recognize their efforts and dedication to the Catholic worker human thing," Farrell shared. in working toward Catholic principles. movement has called her to take a The exhibit may be viewed at the 
"The role of the Catholic worker is much deeper look at things such as CSC until April 2, Monday through to take personal responsibility for our what it means to love her enemies Friday, 8 to 10 a.m., Saturdays from brothers and sisters who live without and her neighbors. "The movement noon to 2 p.m. and Sundays from 6 to their basic needs being met in an ef­has brought me closer to the gospel 9 p.m.. Through the efforts of the fort to perform works of mercy," said message," Farrell stated. "My work GSU, the Notre Dame Student Gov­FarrelL with the poor has transformed my life ernment and Student Union Board 
When most people picture service and I now have a deeper under-have sponsored the exhibit. Donations they think of entering the Peace standing of God." would be appreciated to help fund the Corps, not performing service through Farrell's dedication and love for Holy Family Catholic Worker House in the church in Catholic worker houses. others provoked her to undertake a South Bend. Dave Carrier, GSU officer and Catholic 
~----------------------------------~--------------~--~----------~---------~ 
Accent
Page 10 Wednesday, March 3, 1993 
•

Amusical JOurney 
Concert band's spring break tour ends with Radio City Music Hall performance 
BY MATT FOLEY show in the Radio City Music Graduate students tradition­
Accent Writer Hall will be extra special. ally showcase their talents in Slated to appear with the Irish solos, and this year proves no Concert Band is renowned Irish different. Joli Barnett (French 
While most Notre Dame stu­tenor Frank Patterson in a Horn), Kim Whaley (Clarinet), dents are thinking of Florida, show titled "A Great Night for Craig Heinzen (Trumpet), John Cancun, or home for Spring the Irish." On top of the normal Currey (Alto Sax), and Angelia Break, the 65 members of the musical selection, songs like Cartwright (Trumpet) will all Notre Dame Concert Band will "It's a Long Way to Tipperary" entertain the crowd with solo be off on a whirlwind eight city and "When Irish Eyes Are performances. tour of the East. The Concert Smiling" have been added to Band will stop and perform in the show. Mendez was It may seem like the Concert Erie, PA; Syracuse, NY; Wilkes­informed that the Radio City Band members wouldn't get a Barre, PA; Albany, NY; Spring­Music Hall show is nearly a Spring Break, considering the field. MA; Gardener, MA; and sellout. fact that they spend so much will conclude in New York City's While on the road, the Con­time on the road going from Hadio City Music Hall. cert Band will play classic fa­stop to stop. According to 
According to Junior clarinet vorites, show tunes, overtures, Mendez, this year's trip won't player Troy Mendez, who also and Notre Dame songs. The be nearly as long as the last South Bend. Wiskirchen, C.S.C. during other serves as the publidst for Notre Band features Dvorak, a Glen Spring Break excursion. Last When they return to parts of the show. Dame Bands, this year's edition Miller medley, and the old year, the band toured the state campus, the Band keeps upof the Concert Band Tour ought school standbys in a more of Texas during the Semester their pace. The group will The Notre Dame Concert 
to be one of the best ever. complex arrangement as their Break. perform at the JACC Monday Band is out to represent the 
"We're really looking forward to musical signature. University in a display of their
night in a free concert for the a good show ... The rehearsals This year's selection is This year. although they play 
Notre Dame community and the talents and the school's musical have been going very well. "challenging music. People re­eight concerts in nine days, the general public. Featured in the heritage. If you can't see them 
Most everyone is looking ally enjoy bettering themselves band will have some time to show will be a solo by Father on the road, catch the perfor­forward to the opportunity of and gaining the experience of enjoy the various sights. The Moloney, a member of the Notre mance in the JACC on the Mon­playing in a place like Hadio playing before paying, rides will only be about two Dame music department. Dr. day after Break. Last year the City Music Hall." expectant audiences," hours between sites, and the Luther Snavely, in his seventh show broke attendance records. 
Although the other stops on commented Mendez. The group has Friday off to explore year as Director of Bands, will the tour promise excitement Concert Band tour hopes to give New York City . The only direct the performance, along The performance at the JACC and fine entertainment, the 
its members a chance to grow downside to the trip is a punish­with Assistant Directors James will be on Monday, March 15 at 
New York City rendition of the in music and comraderie. ing ride back from New York to Phillips and Rev . ..George 8 p.m. Admission is free. 
Northern exposure 
World traveling poet and storyteller Nicpon reveals his Alaskan insights 
By BILL ALBERTINI on the fact that he has lived in spill. Another poem, "MacBeth 
Accent Writer the places about which he for Moderns," tackles AIDS. writes and about which he will The works of other poets will read. Because he has lived in also be featured at the show. 
"It's really about strangeness Alaska for so long, Nicpon says One favorite of Nicpon is Robert and acceptance," says Sour­"I can read [the poems] with Service, and the show will "lean dough Phil, better known as passion." heavily" toward his work. Ser­Phil Nicpon, about the one-man Of his poetry and fiction, vice is best known for his show which he will perform "some of it is comedy... and poems about gold-rush Alaska tonight at the Belle Plaza in then all of a sudden there's such as "The Cremation of Sam Niles. Nicpon, a resident of something tragic," said Nicpon. McGee." Other possible works Niles and self-proclaimed He usually introduces his poems would come from poets such as "raconteur and recaller with a quote which relates to Lord Alfred Tennyson, local extraordinaire," will present the theme of the work as a poet Abdullah and the Swedish his original show, entitled, whole. While "an anarchist at feminist poet Sonja Akesson. "Alaska Unmasked: 17 Years heart" and often political in his Married to Alaska" or "Stranger work, Nicpon plans to deal Naming the show "Alaska in a Strange Land." mostly, but not exclusively, with Unmasked" seemed only 
The show will include his more humorous and light­natural to Nicpon, as he has a dramatic readings of original hearted work at the show. fascination with masks. In his poems and stories. as well as "Many humorous and some sad apartment he has a collection of poems by other authors which events will be related -but "stone masks, wooden masks,· deal with subjects which are that's life in Alaska," says and caribou masks" from theBig oil tires to goose · important to Nicpon. Nicpon. places he has lived. In keeping The 53 year-old Nicpon has Nicpon feels that "students with the "mask" theme of theWith Exxon Valdez and 'Inltsst's ;;,,,,,:::,::ttl lived all over the world. He would like the intellectual qual­show, anyone who wears a grew up in Chicago, spent 17 ity" of his work. His poems and mask to the show and keeps itCondom ruptures l years in Alaska, three years in stories often come from small on the entire time will have Brazil, two years in France, and events in life which are often their entrance money refunded
crude a year in Tahiti before coming related to other subjects, such after the show. to the Michiana area about as a recent poem about Dr.Flow in profusion down.,·••1··1~~~~~~ I three years ago. His writings Kevorkian and suicides from A lottery will be held at each
,Yf• 

are directly influenced by the the Golden Gate Bridge in San show for two 8" x 10" originalNarrows places he has lived. He said he Francisco. Another poem deals photographic enlargements of has "always been a poetry with a friend's death in an air­slides that Nicpon has takenSpreading out to cover··~;J,;J,~~,,:!r'W'"'~'!i+> writer" but his work "just plane crash in Alaska by com­during his stay in Alaska. recently beg'an coming paring it to birds who fly into Doors will open at the BingoIn Exxon's shame ancl·•11·tiJit.n~;:::,m :: together." windows. Hall for the first show at 6:00 "As a kid I loved adventure," Other poems by Nicpon deal PM. Two shows will runDouble condom would.ba~£~ ~~~~~~•• 1 said Nicpon. This love has led with subliminally taught racist tonight, with the first show 
him around the world and has messages. as seen in his "Ebony running from 6:30 to 8:00 PM given him great basis for his Irises," or environmental and the second from 8:30 to work as a writer and poet. catastrophe, such as "Just 10:00 PM. Tickets are $5 perNicpon believes that his abilities Another Dead Goose," which person, with half price for 
as a storyteller are dependent deals with the Exxon Valdez oil children 12 and under. 
..... 

Wednesday, March 3,1993 The Observer page 11 

Men's swimming finishes behind La Salle at MCC championships 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY events they're not used to did Horenkamp, and Rob Flynn also Sports Writer particularly well. They'd had had successful weekends. more time to rest and prepare Sznewajs placed third in the 
The Notre Dame men's swim for those events, and it 400 l.M. at 4:09.21, fourth in team returned Sunday from a showed." the 500 free .at 4:42.74, and long and disappointing weekend seventh in the 1650 at 16:53.26. in Philadelphia at the Mid­Low place finishes failed to Horenkamp placed seventh in western Collegiate Conference indicate the success of the the 200 free, swimming a Swimming and Diving Champi­swimmers in many cases. The 1:44.55, and fifth in the 1650 onship, where the fell to con­freshmen, especially strong this free in 16:34.09. ference newcomer and host La weekend, joined seniors Greg Flynn captured fifth in the Salle. Cornick and Ed Broderick in 200 l.M. at 1:57.32, ninth in the 
leading the team the second 100 breaststroke in 1:01.67, 
"It was a harder weekend place finish. fifth in the 200 back in 1:55.37, than we'd expected," said Head and seventh in the 400 l.M., Coach Tim Welsh. "We had Freshman George Lathrop swimming a time of 4:11.01. some good swims, but the addi­placed eighth in the 1650 tion of La Salle and Duquesne freestyle and eleventh in both The relays proved .to be Notre made this the most competitive the 500 free at 4:43.94 and the Dame's strong suit this week­Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
.MCC Championship I've ever 200 free at 1:45.15. He was end. The Irish broke their own Senior Ed Broderick broke records in the 200 I.M. and the 100 Fly at seen." also a member of the sixth 1992 record of 3:31.74 in the the MCC championships. Notre Dame finished second behind La Salle. place 400 free relay team and 400 medley relay with a time of finishes came from Cornick and Broderick broke the 200 I.M. 
Despite the loss, the Irish, the third place 800 free relay. 3:30.13. In the 200 medley Broderick. Cornick, in the 200 record of 1:55.64 with his time who entered the meet as the relay, Notre Dame topped their breast, broke a 1990 record of of 1:55.04 and the 100 fly34th-ranked team in the nation, "Everyone put forth a good 1992 time of 1:36.89 with a 2:07.25 with his time of record of 52.01 at a time of broke five records and had effort," Lathrop said. "We still time of 1:35.80. The Irish also 2:06.82, while Broderick fin-51.10. many individual best times. getting ready for Easterns next placed third in the 800 free re­ished second with a time of According to senior co-cap­
"Our distance training held up weekend and weren't quite lay and sixth in the 400 free re­2:09.75. tain John Godfrey, Notre Dame and our mile swims were very ready for this one, but La Salle lay. Cornick also placed second in was "pretty evenly matched good," Welsh commented. "The had a good meet." the 50 free in 21.34 and third in with La Salle. They had a reallypeople that were swimming Freshmen Tim Sznewajs, Tom The only individual first place the 100 fly at 51.66. good meet, and we were off." 
pected," said Brian Kubicki, a junior thrower on the track
Series 
team. "Sometimes, it's frustrat­ing because you think you're
continued from page 16 
working hard and deserve said sophomore fencer Chris 
recognition too." 
McQuade. 
Although there are limited These overlooked athletes are 
scholarships and no free 
used to the questions and to the clothing for these athletes, they lack of support at competitions. 
are respected for the time they''I've been fencing for a long put in what they do. 
time and it's never really been 
"Most people laugh at it 
publicized. I'm used to it. I'm 
(fencing), but they respect the 
not used to a sport that has 
time and effort you put into it," hundreds of people come every said McQuade. "It takes time time," said Claudette DeBruin, 
and you must be dedicated 
a freshmen fencer. 
even though it's not a real 
"It's pretty much what I ex-popular sport." 
I dippin' is for dips 1 
The Observer accepts classitieds every bustness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classtfieds must be prepatd. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Help! Blue ND hooded "Victory" winter, and by ocean waves in Student Activities is now hiring Need ride to Mpls/St. Paul jacket w/ IRISH on back. summer. Art, music, the best students for the 1993-94
NOTICES WANTED 
for Spring Break! Brand new, I just need the education, endless love. Call academic year. Positions
I I 

~----------------~ ~S~U~M~M~E~R'J~O~B~S.-------~ 
I'll help pay tolls/gas cash. Costs $70 at bookstore. Franny or Stephen collect. available as Building TYPING 287-4082 ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Call Marty 41206 I'll take $50 or best offer. (212)369-2597. Managers, Sound Techs, Room PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' Call John at x1160 Monitors, Stepan Managers, TYPING 256-6657 CAMPS 3-4 CUBIC FT. DORM SIZE ***SPRING BREAK LOANS*** Set Up Crew, Information Desk 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS REFRIGERATOR. WILL PAY LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT & Games Room Attendants, Dissertations, Theses, NEAR LAKE PLACID CASH. CALL TIM 631-7646. YEAR? From the and more. Stop by 315 Term Papers CALL 1-800-786-8373. NEED FURNITURE? MORRISSEY LOAN FUND LaFortune to pick up an Word Works Typing Service WE HAVE: application.Deadline for 
I FOR RENT 
277-7406 Adoption-Active, Young couple BEDS 30 Day Loans applying is Friday, March 19. wants to adopt your bundle of BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES COUCHES Up to $250 joy. Love and Laughter FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. TABLE @1% Interest 
ILOST & FOUND I guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-219-291-7153. 5 CHAIRS Monday -Friday Congratulations to the Saint 
682-8628. ENTERTAINMENT CENTER 11 :30.-12:30 Mary's swimming and diving Lost: REX'S KEYS 6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM DRESSERS 1st Floor LaFortune team on another successful *41613 HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. AND A DESK O'Hara Lounge season! This year was a blast­
SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach FURN. AVAIL. NOW, CALL 273-2810 you guys are the best! It's sad 
LOST: Black Book Bag wanted for H.S. level team. Call SUMMER, OR FALL.272-6306 ADOPTION: A loving happy to be ending, but fear not-the at SOH During Lunch 2/26-277-4791 for details. home, financial security, and "pennis" will rise again next
PERSONAL 
Piease Help-DESPERATELY Roomate for next year needed educational opportunities await year! HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP!
Need Notes For Exams-No CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING for Castle Point apartment. your newborn. We can help LOVE, Questions Asked-Call Tim -Earn $2,000+/month + world HELP! HELP! with your expenses. Please call Jen (tramp, puke, Dutch, 
x3372 travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Call 273-9644 for more info. Desperate female seeking ride us collect: David and Rosemery Gussy, etc.) Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, to D.C. area for spring break. (919) 288-4490 Let's help each p.s. Summer and Career Will help pay for gas and tolls. 
$$$Reward$$$-Help me find 4 BEDRM/3BATHRM SEMI­other. We'll miss you: Call Leah @ 284-4308 and 
my gold Monet watch. It has a employment available. No FURN. OAKHILL CONDO Danahy (good luck in the real 
stone in each of the links. Lost experience necessary. For 4 RENT '93-'94 SUM and/or leave message. Hi Mom & Dad Hutchinson! I world) Fri. 2/26 between NOH, employment program call YEAR CALL 277-9452 miss you! Love your Devt-Devt Smigs (good luck in grad Keenan & Lewis. Call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. Astrologer, Birth Charts & school) 
Personal Forecasts. Send
Alliex4120 NEED A QUIET PLACE TO CANCUN FOR $99! Roundtrip Katie (have fun in Ireland) Need ride for Spring Break to WRITE YOUR BOOK OR SASE: Astrological Services, airfare $99, complete packages Black hat left in room 207 of Binghamton, NY or area­THESIS? Full Eqp Cottage Box 8038, South Bend, IN from $199! Call STS @ 1-800-Congratulations & Good Luck 46615, or call Pager #282­
O'Shaughnessy Hall on Ithaca, Syracuse, Scranton ... Palisades Pil Near So Haven 648-4849. Dave Kinney! You should be Thursday, February 25. Please X3624 Ml (708)446-6118 7042. OK despite the fact that you're call Sr. Kathleen Cannon, O.P. a guy. 
at631-5812. Pregnant and feeling alone with MATOLA-FOOD-PRODUCTS­Big "0" women rule.
FOR SALE 
50,000,000 babies no where to turn? We offer ARE-INDORSED-BY-THE Love, Kelley confidential counseling at no "IRONMAN TRIATHLON" FOR Lost-Elaine's keys and ND NEED ride to Daytona beach cost to you. For more INFO CALL "KM-CENTER" LEAVING YOUR CAR AT ND key pouch with ID, Detex,etc. 4 break w/some girls. HELP STEREO FOR SALE. information call Nancy at 232-291-2964 FORTHESUMMER?NEEDA Please call X2461. erica #2206 CARSITIER? CALL 4-4092. 
5843. 

LOR REI-WILL PAY$$$. Adoption: Doctor and teacher here I am -but I never Dual cassette recorder, 
turntable, am/fm radio, graphic 
I NEED A RIDE TO NJ OR NY will make dreams for your baby got the picture. I want my Happy Birthday MLE Hage! We
FOUND: MAN'S WATCH equalizer. Good condition. 
OUTSIDE OF LOFTUS LAST FOR BREAK. PLEASE CALL Needs speakers. $200. Call come true. Full-time parenting. $2. won't let you forget that U're WEEK. CALL MIKE AT 634-TIM 634-1012 Sandy at 233-2407. Best of the city; summers by -snap-a-scam-man. two decades OLD! It's Your 1033 AND IDENTIFY. BIRTHday, milk it for all U can! 
the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in 
Page 12 

The Observer March 3, 1993 
..... ..... ..... ...... ...... ..... ..... ...... ...... 
,,.,. . . . .. .. . ( .......
) ..... ...... ...... ........ ...... .
..~ . • ······. : . . ..... '<· ~ 
,,_A+•

0 .............. . ......... ............... ... ......... • 0 QJ· 
TRANSACTIONS NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS ·,~.<~:.~, 
BASEBALL 

EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE
American League Atlantic Dlvlelon Petrick Dlvlelon

MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms with w L Pet 08 L10 Streak Home Away Conf w L T Pte OF OA Home Away DIYDoug Hervy, pltciMr, on a one-year contract. 

New York 37 18 .873 7·3 Won 1 24·4 Pittsburgh 39 20 6 84 264 211 22·8·4 17-14-2 17-8·2
13-14 28-12 New Jersey 31 24 .564 6 Washington 32 24 7 71 259 226 14·8·6 18·18-1 10-12·2TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to Ierma with Rob 
6·4 Won 1 18·9 13·15 20·15 
Booton 29 26 .527 8 5·5 loot 1 17·7 New Jersey 31 26 5 67 224 219 19·11·2 12·15-3 13·13·1Maurer, ftrot beeeman, end Roger Pavtlk, pitcher, to 
one-year contrecta. 12-19 22·16 
Orlando 27 25 .519 81/2 8·4 Won 1 17·12 10-13 NY Islanders 30 28 6 66 282 233 16·14·2 14·14-4 15·12·1
16·17 Miami 21 32 .396 15 NY Rangers 28 25 10 66 245 234 17·8-4 1,.,7-6 10-14·3TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to Ierma wnh 
Doug Union lltld Pat Hentgen, pitchers, on one· 7·3 Won 3 15·12 6·20 11·23 
Philadelphia 19 34 .352 17 2·8 loot 1 10·16 Philadelphia 23 30 11 57 246 255 16·12·5 7·18·6 9·15·3 
yew contrecta. 9·18 Hi-23 
Washington 16 38 .296 20 1/23·7 loot 1 11·14 5-24 9-25 Adame Dlvlelon
National League 

Central Division x-Montreal 41 19 6 88 275 214 24·8·2 17·11-4 19·8·0FLORIDA MAAUNS-Agreed to Ierma with Brei Chicago 38 17 .691 Quebec 35 20 9 79 266 232 18·12·2 17·8·7 14·9·3
Barberle, eecond baseman, on a one-year 8·2 Won 5 19-8 19·9 24·11
Cleveland 37 19 .661 1 1/2 9·1 Won 7 24·5 Boston 33 23 7 73 250 224 19·8·3 14·15·4 13·9·1
13-14 23·11 Charlotte 29 25 .537 81/2 6·4 Won 1 15-12 14-13 Buffalo 31 25 7 69 274 232 22·8·2 9·17·5 15·9·3
contract. 

18·17 Indiana 27 29 .482 11 1/25·5 Won 3 18·11 9·18 18·21 Hart1ord 17 41 4 38 208 263 9·20-4 8·21·0 9·17·2MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Ivan 
Arteaga, Miguel Batlata, Kent Bottenfield, Mike Atlanta 26 30 .464 12 1/2 3·7 lost 3 13·13 13·17 Ottawa 9 53 4 22 157 312 9·22·4 0·31·0 4·22·1

Gardiner, Chrlo Nabholz, Bill Risley and Sergio 17-23
Detroit 24 30 .444 131/25·5 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
Won 1 18·10 6-20 20-18 Milwaukee 21 34 .382 17 3·7 Won 13·15 Norrie DlvlelonValda, pnchera, and John Vander Wal, outftelder, 
on one-year contrecta. 8·19 15-21
WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pta OF OA Home Away DlvPHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agreed to terms Mldw..t Dlvlelon Chicago 36 21 8 80 224 180 20·8·4 16·13-4 17·10·2with Dave Holllne, third baseman, on a two-year w L Pet 08 L1o Streak Home Away Conf Detroit 33 25 9 75 282 232 19·12·3 14·13-6 14·12·3contract and Juan Bell, shortstop, on a one-year San Antonio 35 19 .648 5·5 loot 1 23·5 Toronto 32 22 9 73 221 184 18·10-5 14·12-4 14·11·5
12-14 20·12 Houston 33 21 .611 2 7·3 Won e 20·8 13-13 19·12 Minnesota 30 25 9 69 224 219 14·12-6 16·13·3 12·11·3
contract. 
ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to Ierma with Utah 33 23 .589 3 3·7 loot 5 St. louis 29 29 8 66 223 228 17·12·5 12·11·3 11-12·5

18·10 15-13 19-15Denver 22 32 .407 13 5·5 Won 1 18·8 4-24 lampe Bay 19 40 5 43 190 241 10·19·2 9·21·3 7·19·2Ray Lankford and Bernard Gilkey, outfielders; 13·23 
Minnesota 13 39 .250 21 3·7 loot 2 7·20 6-19 8-24 Smythe DlvlelonGeronimo Pena, Lulo Alicea, Rod Brewer and 
Tnocy Woodson, lnfteldero, end Mike Perez, Omar Dallas 4 48 .077 30 0-10 loot 10 4·24 Vancouver 36 19 9 81 273 202 22·6·4 14·13-5 19·6·2

Ollvarea, Rhea! Cormier, Fidel Compreo and Mark 0-24 1-32 
Pacific Division Calgary 33 21 10 76 254 217 17·10·5 16·11-5 17·5·3Clark, pitchers. 
Phoenix 40 12 .769 7·3 loot 1 22·2 Winnipeg 28 29 6 62 237 246 18·11·2 10·18-4 11-12·3
18-10 26-8 Seattle 37 17 .685 4 8·2 Won 7 22·4 15·13 Los Angeles 27 29 7 61 246 266 15·13·4 12·16-3 11-13·2SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms 
with Rod Beck and Rick Hulsman, pitchers; Mike 27·10 
PorUand 32 19 .629 7 1/2 4-6 lost 1 Edmonton 23 34 8 54 186 245 14·12-5 9·22·3 10-16·1
20·8 12·11 20·11 LA lakers 28 24 .538 12 6-4 Won 1 15·11 13-13 San Jose 8 55 2 18 172 323 5·27·1 3·28·1 6·22·1Benjamin, ohortotop, and Eric Chrlatopheraon, 
catcher, on one-yew contrecta. 19-15 
LA Clippers 28 26 .519 13 5·5 loot x-clinched playoff berth.
17·10 11-16 17-18Golden State 25 32 .439 17 1/2 5-5 Won 14·13 11-19 Monday's Games Tuesday's Gamas 
BASKETBALL 

National B..ketball A..oclatlon 17-15 
Sacramento 18 37 .327 23 1/22-8 Won 12·15 6-22 12·22 Montreal 5, Boston 2 late Games Not Included
NBA-Fined John Starks, New York Knlcka Monday's Games VanCCM.Mtr 5, Buffalo 2 New York Islanders 3, Detroit 2guard, $5,000 tor committing a flagrant foul In a 

Detron 99, Boston 95 Philadelphia 5, Pittsburgh 4
game on Feb. 28. 

Charlotte 110, Utah 107 NCAA POLLS Vancouver 3, Washington 3, tla
DALLAS MAVERICKS-Signed Tim Legler, 

Golden State 131 , Philadelphia 118guard, to a t 0-day contract. 
Tuesday's Garnes 
GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Activated Billy Record Pta Pvs
late Games Not Included 
Owens, forward, from the Injured list. 1. North Carolina (49) 24·3 1,800 3 How the top 25 teams In Tha Associatad Prass
New York 107, Alllltlla 98 14. Wake Forest (18-6) did not play. Next: at No.
WASHINGTON BULLETS-Signed Byron Irvin, 2. Indiana (8) college basketball poll farad Tuesday:
Orlando 108, Minnesota 89 25·3 1,517 1 1 North Carolina, Wednesday.
guard, and Alan Ogg, center, to 10-day contrecta. 3. Arizona (5) 21·2 1,491 4 1. North Carolina (24-3) did not play, Next: vs.
Indiana 109, San Antonio 95 15. Iowa (19·7) lost to No. 4 Michigan 82-73.
No. 14 Wake Forest, Wednesday.Chicago at New Jersey, (n) 22-4 1,435 5 Next: at No. 24 Purdue, SaiLKday. 
FOOTBALL 4. Michigan (3) 
National Football League 5, Kentucky 21·3 1,390 2. Indiana (25·3) did not play. Next: w.
Dallas at Milwaukee, (n) 2 
16. UNLV (19·5) did not play, Next: at UC Irvine, LA lakera at Denwr, (n) 22·5 1,263 9 Thursday.
NFL--Appolnted Bill Pollan to the Management e. Duke Northwestam, Thursday. 
Council to advtae teama on the free agency 7. Vanderbilt 23·4 1,246 3. Arizona (21·2) did not play. Next: vs. CaiHornla
Cleveland at Seattle, (n) 8 
17. New Orleans (24·2) did not play. Next: Sun Houston at LA Clippers, (n)syotern. at Oakland Coliseum, Thursday.
8.Kanaas 22·5 1,131 7 
Belt Conference tournament, Saturday.

GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Roland 9.l.lteh 4. Michigan (23·4) beat No. 15 Iowa 82·73. Next:
Phoenix at PorUand, (n) 22-3 1,065 11 
18. Xavter, Ohio (21·3) beat La Salle 73-58. Wednesday's Games 14Mitchell, cornerback; Ervin Randle, linebacker; vs. Michigan State, Sunday.
10. Seton Hall 22-6 978 
Next: at Duquesne, Saturday.

Davtd Grant, defenalve lineman, and Terry 11. Florida State 5. Kentucky (21·3) did not play. Next: at Beauford, guard. Mississippi, Wednesday. 19. Oklahoma State (1 8·6) did not play. Next: VI.
San Antonio at Boston, 7:30 p.m. 21·8 919 6 
Washington at Mlwnl, 7:30p.m. 10 Oral Roberts, Thursday.
12. Cincinnati 21·4 832 TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Announced the e. Duke (22·5) did not play. Next: vs. Maryland,
13. Arkansas 18·6 790 15realgnatlon Ray Oliver, strength and conditioning Utah at Delran, 8:30 p.m. Wednesday. 20. Tulane (20-6) did not play. Next: vs. Virginia
Dallas at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 12 Commonwealth, Thursday.
14. Wake Forest 18·6 758 coach, to become otrength end conditioning coech 15.1owa 19-6 735 18 7. Vanderbilt (23-4) vs. Tennessee. Next: at
Philadelphia at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. 
21. Brigham Young (22·6) did not play. Next: atand aaslstant elhleUc director at South Carolina. South Carolina, Saturday.
16. UNLV 19-4 704 13
LA lakero at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Texas-EI Paso, Thursday.
Promoted Dennis Green, assistant strength and 17. New Orleans 23·2 692 19 8. Kansas (22·5) did not play. Next: \IS, conditioning coech to strength and conditioning Houston at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 18. Xavier, Ohio Nebraska, Wednesday. 22. Loulovtlie (1 6·8) did not play. Next: VI.
20·3 423 24
ThtKsday's Games Virginia Tech, Thursday.
coach. 9. Utah (22·3) did not play. Next: at New Mexico,
19. Oklahoma Stale 18·5 HOCKEY 
Utah at New York, 7:30 p.m. 341 Thursday. 23. Masoechuaetts (19·6) did not play. Next: VI.
20. Tulane 20-6 249 16
Orlando at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. St. Joseph's, Thursday.22-6 216 23
National Hockey L..gue 21. Brigham Young 10. Seton Hall (22·6) did not play, Next: w. N H L-Named Jeffrey Pash senior vice 22. Louisville 16-8 171 Boston College at the Meedowtands, Wednesday.
LA Clippers at Washington, 7:30 p.m. 24. Purdue (15·8) did not play. Next: at Michigan Attanta at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. State, Wednesday.
president and general counael. 23, Massachusetts 11. Florida State (21·8) did not play. Next: at
18-6 149 21
Cleveland at Mln..-ota, 8 p.m. Georgia Tech, Thursday. 25. St. John'a (17·8) did not play. Next: at No. 10
NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Mike Hurlbut and 24. Purdue 15-8 128 17
PorUand at Denver, 9 p.m. Seton Hall at the Meedowiands, Saturday.
Dave Marclnyshyn, defenaemen, to Binghamton of 25. St. John's 16-6 105 12. Cincinnati (21·4) did not play. Next: vs. 
Charlotte at Seattle, 10 p.m. 
Memphis Slate, Saturday.
the American Hockey League. 

13. Arkansas (18-6) did not play. Next: vs. LSU, Wednesday. 

Wednesday, March 3,1993 The Observer page 13 
Errors costly for men's volleyball 
By KEVIN DOLAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's vol­
lnyball team dropped a tough 
match to Eastern Michigan 
Saturday night ( 15-13, 3-15, 
12-15, 15-9. 8-15), but will 
look to come back strong 
tonight against Illinois-Chicago 
in the Thunderpit of the 
,J.A.C.C., at 7:30 P.M. 
Saturday's match appeared as 
though it would be fairly easy 
for the Irish, facing an EMU 
team that was thrown together 
at a moment's notice. 
"After we lost Illinois State, · we had to lind another team so 
Kentucky wouldn't waste a 
trip," said club president Pat 
Madden. who called over 45 
teams trying to find a replace­
ment for ISU. 
The EMU team was composed of at least one actual college student, setter Brett Renaud, 

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: a full Macintosh line for all your needs. 
You'renotthe only one ds carryingalotof units this semester. 

and five friends from summer USVBA matches-a group that had never played together. 
Their unfamiliarity with each other's play showed as the Irish jumped out to a 13-5 lead behind Brian Ceponis. The skill of the more experienced EMU players took over as they ran off eight straight points to tie the game. Won Suh then dropped in an ace, and an EMU hitting error gave the Irish a win, 15­13. 
The next 1 1/2 games were all EMU, as everything the Irish hit was blocked. EMU won game two 15-3, behind middle blocker Mark Watts, who coaches at Mishawaka's Penn high school. 
"Watts is the best middle blocker we've faced all year," said Madden. "We were hitting great balls, but they were blocking them all. Then we started pressing, and that really hurt us." 
Krista, 
Happy Birthday 
to the pride of Holliston! 
In game three, EMU ran up an 8-2 lead before three kills and two aces by Matt Strottman and Leo Casas, respectively, helped tie the game at 8-8. However, EMU's defense was still too strong as they prevailed 15-12. 
Faced with a must-win situa­tion in game four, Notre Dame found themselves down 5-4. But they returned to the form shown in game one, running off eight straight points en route to a 15-9 victory. Tom Kovats and Matt Strottman combined on several blocks and spikes to lead the Irish to the saving win. 
In the deciding game, EMU pounded their way to an 8-3 lead before an Irish timeout, followed by yet another Irish comeback, led by Ceponis' three blocks, tied the game at 8-8. 
The remainder of the game, Notre Dame was haunted by 
which allowed EMU to go on a 7-1 run to close out the match with a 15-8 victory. 
Referring to the comeback, Madden credited the blockers. 
"They ( Ceponis, Casas and Kovats ) were really fired up... we didn't think we could lose. Unfortunately, the passing breakdown proved fatal." 
Tonight in the Thunderpit, the Irish face an Illinois-Chicago team that they defeated beat in five games earlier this season. 
"We were able to play all our subs in the last match," said Madden. With that in mind, the Irish will look to turn their for­tunes around tonight. 

Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new line of full-featured Macintosh· computers ever. There's the Apple Macintosh Color Classic""-asolid performer at aremarkable price. The Macintosh LC III, which runs 50% faster than its top-selling oredecessor, the LC II. And, for even more power, the Macintosh Centrif 610. See these new computers today at your Apple Campus Reseller. Where you'll get special student pricing, aswell as service duringcollege~ Andexperience the powerofMacintosh..J. The power more college students choose. The power to be your besr W. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
·.'\emet.' is amillthle on~rfmm Apple Cmnfms Rt•st>/lers tl'hich are Af!Pit• Authori:t:d Serl'ia• l'roriden·. ©1993 Apple Com{mler. Inc. All righls resm'ed. Apple. tlx• Apple logo. Maci1;tosh and "The pou·er to be your be.~r are rc.'J!istered trademarks ofApple Cbmputer./nc. Maciulosh Cenfris is a lrarletntlrk o)App!e Computer. Inc. Clas...'ic i.~ t1 rt.'Ristemllradmzark lk""l'nwd to Apple Compuler. Inc. 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, March 3,1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS Indiana faces Notre Dame in key midwestern clash 


BY JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
After picking up two easy wins against Big Ten foes on Saturday, the Notre Dame men's tennis team tries their luck once again this afternoon against midwest power Indiana, at 3:15 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The match is the next-to-last home meet of the year for the sixth-ranked Irish, and it's shaping up to be an excellent confrontation between the Irish's speed and experience against Indiana's strength and raw serving power. 
"In my tenure here at Notre Dame we've never beaten them here." said Irish coach Bob Bayliss, now in his sixth year at the helm, "They came in here two years ago and won in a 5-4 upset. Hopefully our guys still remember that match. We were favored and they played harder." 
The strength of the Indiana 
ourselves so that we can be 
10. Gee anc:w phoco for my J.D. (this one wiU never work.) competitive on a national level." 
Column 
"I just know it's great to play 
Happy Birthday Brian Dewan
against schools that have
continued from page 14 
scholarships and beat them," Love•..
players who get them are the added Lonsdale. 
cream of the crop." Mom, Dad, & Kevin Still, Lonsdale stressed that r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A s
the Irish are making headway in the ruthless recruiting game, 
RecSports women's .,........~,., self-defense ·"~tl'~>~>t:•~> 
nnlng March 16 
p.m. at Rockne '''"'mnr• 631~6100 for 
AJkido Club will have ..,."'·"'""'"'·! f'rom 6-8 p.m. on •••vuu••cr esday from 2•4 ay in 2t9 are welcome. 
dippin' is for dips 
c;ates Tbyota 
20% off to all students and faculty when seryicing your Toyota at Gates Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Call 2 3 7-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.55 
"/low! whatyou dojJrme." 
@TOYOTA 

despite their handicap. "We had the top-rated de­
fenseman in for a visit last year. 
so l think people are looking at us and starting to consider 
Notre Dame," said Lonsdale, a native of Lutherville, Maryland. "Someday if we get some money or get some kind of scholarships, then maybe we can start to get some of those top players. 
"Corrigan has done an awe­some job, he's tapped into the younger players and estab­lished some recruiting bases out east," continued Lonsdale, "so a lot of young players are 
starting to think about coming
to Notre Dame. The players are getting to see us play out east 
also, and that's been a big 
heiXi~hough the Irish's lack of funding is always there, both 
Corrigan and Lonsdale agreed that they just put it behind 
them when it comes to getting down to business. 
"To be honest with you we don't sit around and worry
about things we don't have," said an optimistic Corrigan. 
lineup is their shear size and power, as they boast five ex­tremely strong servers. A tall lefty serve and volleyer, Chris Angel, will challenge Irish southpaw Will Forsyth at the top singles spot. 
"He's come out of nowhere to become one of the premier players in the Midwest," noted Bayliss. 
At two-singles, the Hoosiers have Nigel Russell, who has split with Notre Dame's Chuck Coleman the last two years, and lost a tight 6-4, 6-4 match to 
Another forehand force, sophomore Tom Wiese, will take on Chris Wojtalik at five­singles, after taking down the Irish junior Tom North last season as a freshman. 
The Irish will face even a big­ger challenge in the Hoosier doubles teams, especially since top singles player Angel will play on the third-doubles squad. 
"I don't know if we'll be able to handle his serves," said Bayliss, "If we can sneak out a couple of wins and win the doubles point, it will be a real shot in the arm." 
A win against the Hoosiers would put the Irish in the drivers seat for the Midwest's bid to the NCAA Tournament, especially since they already took down Big Ten favorite and 23rd-ranked Minnesota earlier this season. This fact makes the match all that more crucial. 
"We will definitely have our hands full, it will be a very hard match," concluded Bayliss. 
former Notre Dame All-..---------------------------, American David DiLucia last 
Top 10 Things To Do in the next
year. Two more powerful 
servers occupy the third and 370 days... before I turn 21: fourth slots for the Hoosiers, as I. Find something ofmy own to park in the D-2 LOT. 6'4" David Held and 6'3" 2. Find the D-2 LOT! Canadian Mark Ableman will 
3. Take the same person to asecond SYR. 

match up against Irish seniors 
4. Find the CliifNotes for che M0\T exam. 

Mark Schmidt and Ron Rosas. 
5. Purchase text books at lease cwo weeks before fmals.
"They're all big servers, so 
6. Reminisce w/ my ~ie friends about the Conan Bowl.
there will be a lot of aces," 
7. Oicch my Aggie cap ...get newAstros cap.

stated Bayliss, "They've had 
8. Explore alcernacives co Thanks~ving in the Nonh
great matches against us in the past." Dining Hall. 
Gee anc:w J.D. 

ttent;on en;ors
II II 
Now, ''T.''-e Alternat;ve '' 
f t II Th Ad H C · h Q l if :1:
e -oc ommittee on t e ua ity 0 Li.Je announces 
The 3rd Annual 
Senior Informal 
at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Fr;day, Apr;ll6, 1993 
" " 

7 p.m. to Midnight 
• Full, Sit-Down Wedding Banquet 
• 2 Great Bands 

• A Most Friendly Crowd Be There! 
F h D "l d rn· k L •
Urt er etal S an .l.lC et OCatlonsA~"ter the Bre k 
·~are just trying to position~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·~~~~~~~a~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Today 
Wednesday, March 3,1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


iH E FR£C:K Lt: A CLOSt-UP. 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
STVPEHPOVS MAN E5Cf>.PES! 
A CRI!-1\'SON BOLT B\JR'S\S h."'--~ 11\RCl'JG\.\ Tt\E f>..IR.' 
-
"' 1993 Wanetsont01stnbutad Unwersal Press Syndate 
CROSSWORD 
tiJ'N ITS Clff n:> APPL'( M'i 
S\\JPENDO\JS ~W£.RS OF COtKE.~TRti\ION 1t) T\.\E I-\15TOR'f TEST OF t-1\~ 1\l\ER EE!O, t-\II..D-Mtlt\~£.'KU> C~LIJIN. 
\ 
1t>--0Mt>.! HAIJE ND FEAR. Bo'('=:; ANO GIRlS! l't<\ 

STIJPENIJOVS MAN. C\11\MPION OF L\ BERT'( Al'\D J\l'ST\Ct .' 
ACROSS  32 Bran source  60 Group within 36  
1 Hamelin's tempter 6 Month after She bat  35 Hindu queen 37 Muslim mystic 38-cotta 40 Pop song  Down 64Tel­65 Inoperative 68Chigger as Concept: 
o Apartment for  lead-in  Comb. form  
poultry?  42 Racket  70Western  
4 Not at all anxiOUli, 5 Inevitable 6 Loose-hipped  43 Church official 44 Irish playwright 45 W.W. II loser  Turkey, once 71 Wood-trimming tool 72Qutof­ 
dance  47 Make repairs  (uncoordinated)  
17 Inoperative  48 Middle of a  73"-WeAII,"  
19 Roman road 20 Gauguin's  famous palindrome  1929 song  
island paradise 21 Prospect  49 Vascular organs 52 Sugar- DOWN  
23 Greek island  Robinson  1 Conspiracy  
26 Faldo's game 27"Teafor­30 Make a second appearance  53 Type of market or circus 55 Sun-cured 57 Actress Swit  2 New Rochelle college 3Primrose­4Guiding principle  
5 Speaker like  
Bryan 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Bat material 7Twice uno 


a Woody's boy 9 Hideout 
10 Cause of shaking 
11 Inoperative 
12 Substitute at dinner 13 Most popular street name in the U.S. 
18 Begets 
22 Rich cake 24 Describing the medieval system 25 Detached 


27 Closely related 51 Belgrade is its 61 Woodland group capital climber 28 Big or Little 54 Embankment 
62-years Poison 
(elderly)
56 Grief 
63 Card game for 

29 Inoperative 
57 Tibetan priest 
three

31 Harder to see 
58 "Ars Amatoria" 
66"-Little

33 Sports building 
poet Indians"
34 Dilatory 
59 Comic strip's 67Ad­
36 Rebels in Uris's 
Gump committee
"Trinity" 39 "Nightmare" street 
Get answers to any three clues 
41 Beginning 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
46 Take potshots 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
50 Dialect 
mD THE 
:::) TWO WEEKS LEFT! ()~~ 
..I SPEND ST. PATRICK'S DAY AT r-:C­~;() THE ALUMNI~ SENIOR CLUB C :IHl Must Be 21 all 
,-­
i Sports
i 
f page 16 Wednesday, March 3,1993 
~============~~~----~--~----~~~~~--~~~----------­

JONATHAN JENSEN 
On Notre Dame, 
FJ... 
Irish lacrosse becomes force despite obstacles 
The 1993 edition of the Notre Dame lacrosse team is out to further stake their claim to a piece of the national collegiate lacrosse puzzle. 
After a season that saw them attract their second NCAA bid in three years, the Irish have recently been tabbed as the 22nd-ranked team in the nation, and they boast a national schedule that features four other ranked opponents and two top-ten Division III powPrhouses. 
The Irish are traditionally one of the strongest teams in the Midwest, and that trend looks as if it will continue this season. if Sunday's 18-7 drubbing of Division III power Denison in a scrimmage is any evidence. 
But even more miraculous than the Irish's re'Cent success is the way they've gone about it. Head Coach Kevin Corrigan. now in his fifth year at the helm. has molded the Irish into one of the most respected programs in the nation without a single scholarship. 
While most of the teams the Irish suit up against oiTer the full complement of 
12.6 scholarships or, as the Division III and Ivy League schools do, offer packages of financial aid or academic grants to their athletes, Corrigan and Notre Dame have been able to become competitive on a national level without such amenities. 
"The thing about lacrosse is that tlwre's no pros, so kids are just looking to prepare themselves for life," noted Corrigan. ·~and get the best experience they can have. That is what we sell best anyway. What we have to sell are Notre Dame strengths. 
"Ew~ry year we lose kids to a lack of money, but we continue on, recruiting good student-athletes." 
One of the main reasons why the Irish have not been able to have scholarship money is Title IX, which mandates that a school must make a conscious effort to make their ratio of women's scholarships to men's scholarships equivalent to the percentages in the student body. Notre Dame is actively trying to conform to Title IX. increasing its scholarships for women's swimming, softball, and soccer. so lacrosse funding unfortunately suffers. 
''I'm sure that's a eoncern here," said Corrigan, "I just hope the University continues to give us the resources to be competitive. I'm sure its a factor, but that's a difficult position to be in, having to balance gender equity." 
Senior midfielder Chip Lonsdale reiterated just how hard it is to bring in the top players, even if you are Notre Dame. 
"We can't get them on a regular basis, it's tough when all of the best players have to have scholarship packagns or some kind of help," noted Lonsdale. who started all 15 games for the Irish last snason. "Everybody wants to get a scholarship just to say they havn one-it's a big status symbol since there's not that many college scholarships in lacrosse out there. The 
see COLUMN/page 14 

McGraw ties win mark in 91-63 rout of Duquesne 
By JASON KELLY said of the win. "Audrey Gomez played a Notre Dame has nine players capable Sports Writer great game and Kristin Knapp, Carey of starting in any given game, and that Poor and Tootie Jones just dominated the balance will be important as the regular
The Notre Dame women's basketball boards." season draws to a close. team should play Duquesne more often. Gomez and freshman Stacy Fields Games against MCC regular-season
Monday's 91-63 win over the Dukes scored 17 points each to lead the Irish, champion Butler and Evansville remain propelled the Irish into a season-ending while Knapp pulled down 13 rebounds. before the MCC tournament begins on stretch that includes the Midwestern Poor collected 10 rebounds and Jones Monday. It's a rugged schedule, but Collegiate Conference tournament next added nine. Notre Dame is confident after the week at the Joyce ACC. 
Notre Dame finished with six players in Duquesne win. 
Early this season, the double figures in scoring. All of this was "I feel great about the way the team is Irish handed Duquesne without starters Letitia Bowen and Kara playing and we're confident playing at a 95-67 loss. Leary, who sat out with injuries. Leary is home," McGraw said. "We're peaking at 
Leading by just 10 expected to return to the lineup this the right time." points at the half of week and Bowen, who has had a nagging MUFFET'S MARK: McGraw needs justMonday's game, the knee injury all season, rests when the one more win to become Notre Dame's Irish raced out of the schedule allows. all-time winningest women's basketball
Muffet

gate in the second half, "We weren't able to sub as much as I coach. She is currently tied at 115 wins
McGraw

scoring 54 points to run would have liked with Letitia and Kara with Mary DiStanislao, who coached away with the win. out," McGraw explained. "But the from 1980-1987. "We really played great in the second biggest thing is that everyone was able to McGraw collected her 200th career half," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw get quality playing time." victory earlier this year against Dayton. 
Home finale for Irish basketball 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

If there is ever a game the Notre Dame men's basketball team is expected to win, it's tonight's game against Val­paraiso. 
But the Irish aren't so sure. 
"We won't look at them as an easy win," Notre Dame coach John MacLeod said. "We expect a very difficult game." 
Valparaiso is used to difficult games. The Crusaders have played in an NCAA-record eight overtime games this season. 
Guard Tracy Gipson is Val­paraiso's main offensive threat, scoring 20.4 points per game. He is followed closely bv Casev Schmidt (18.1 ). who 
Valparaiso (9·15) 
vs. 

Notre Dame (9·16) 
7:30 p.m. • Joyce ACC 

PROBABLE STARTERS 
VALPARAISO G Tracy Gibson 


F BillyTaylor C Jon Ross 

Overlooked athletes perform with little attention 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Laura Guyer, a junior member of the Associate Sports Editor women's track team, added, "I run because I love it. There is nothing else I 
Editor's Note: This is the final article in would rather be spending my time on." a four-part series examining different At times, these athletes and their· athletic perspectives at Notre Dame. sports get little respect from students. 
What if you hosted the NCAA Due to the nature of their sport, golfers championships and no one cared? especially get teased about their sport. 
Last spring, the Notre Dame fencing "I get a hard time from a lot of my team held the NCAA Fencing friends," said Dayton, "because they Championships right here at the Joyce think that golf practice is a joke because ACC and most students did not know it. people play it for recreation." 

transferred from Arizona and David Redmon (17.5). 
"We need to come out and establish ourselves defen­sively," MacLeod said. "They are a very good offensive team with the ability to score big upsets." 
The Crusaders proved that in 1988, defeating the Irish 71-68. In 35 meetings, Valparaiso has defeated Notre Dame just one other time and that was in the 1920-21 season. 
Could they win a third tonight? 
Notre Dame, losers of nine of their last ten, including their last five, are stumbling toward the season's finish line, but MacLeod insists the team is not just going through the motions in the season's final games. 
"We're not just playing to finish the season, but to build on next year," he said. "We are working on fundamentals. We're a young team and young players need a lot of work." 
Notre Dame has had six 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
days to prepare for the 
Lamarr Justice will get the start at point guard against Valparaiso. It
Crusaders, after a stretch 
is the final home game of the season for the Irish.
when they played three 
Williams. that Malik Russell is lookinggames in six days. 
Tonight's game marks the to transfer, but nobody close
Against Duquesne last final home appearance for to the team has made any
Thursday, the Irish dropped a 
three-year walk-on Matt public comment. Russell is
triple overtime decision, 80­
Adamson. Williams is sitting out the rest of the
76. Junior Brooks Boyer led expected to return for a fifth season to concentrate on
the Irish with 24 points, 
year of eligibility. academics. MacLeod said itmaking up for a three point RUSSELL RUMORS: There would be "unfair to make anyperformance for Notre Dame's is some talk around campus comments at this stage." 
leading scorer Monty 
starting to slip back into the realm of the
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..:. There are several sports at Notre Dame Sophomore golfer Liz Fennen
forgotten sports. 
which get little attention and in general reiterated this, "With golf, they never
INSIDE SPORTS It's hard being at Notre Dame. It's
are forgotten by students and faculty. think of it as a real athletic sport. They
harder being an athlete at Notre Dame . 
.....,.,.,.'"".1en-.,...*s_t_e_n_n..,..ls--=-h-o-s.,...ts-l'""'n-d"'"la-n..,..a-.-. .,..,..,....,..,..,....,...,. These include the fencing teams, the golf think it's just going out and having fun." 
It's even harder being an athlete and not
see page14 teams and the track teams. Fencers encounter a slightly different
getting any recognition for it, but the
·· The wrestling team was disbanded for problem-knowledge of the sport. For
overlooked athletes don't mind. 
just this reason. Last year, the University these athletes, no one really understands
"I really don't mind it at all," said Chris 
•Irish fall to Eastern Michigan felt the team did not generate any their sport, but it does intrigue people. 
Dayton, a senior on the men's golf team. 
see paget3 interest with students and the program "People find the sport interesting. The
"It doesn't bother me much because I
·· was curtailed. novelty of it makes them want to know
knew the non-revenue sports didn't get
It took a tragedy to get students to more about the sport. People ask me
much attention. I didn't expect to get a
•Men's swimming ~cond atMCC's 

notice the swimmers, and unfortunately questions and are usually interested."
lot of publicity. I didn't expect to be on
seepage t1 

the swim teams and the swimmers are 
the cover of The Observer." see SERIES/page 11 




