The Observer
/ 
' 
VOL. XXV. NO. sg-WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24,1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton calls first formal news conference of term 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton said Tuesday at his first formal news conference that it is probably constitutional to restrict the duty assignment of homosexuals in the military. He also sharply criticized Japan on trade. 
His 40-minute session with reporters in the White House East Hoom began with a flurry of questions on Boris Yeltsin and the Russian political crisis. But before long the emphasis turned to other matters. rang­ing from qualifications for his Supreme Court nominee to his plans for allowing openly gay people in the military. 
Brought back to the gays~ military topic that threw him off stride in the first weeks of his administration. Clinton said he would not rule out limiting homosexuals' military assign­ments "depending on what the grounds and arguments were." 
• Support for reforms/ page 7 
Clinton has taken the first steps toward allowing openly gay people in the military. However. confronted by widespread opposition from military leaders, the president delayed his policy for six months as the Pentagon exam­ines whether it would cause problems. 
He said Tuesday it is probably constitutional to restrict the duty assignments of homosex­uals. 
In answer to questions: 
• On replacing Justice Byron White, Clinton said he would want any Supreme Court nom­inee to support the constitu­tional right to privacy -the underpinning of legalized abortions -but that he would not specifically ask candidates how they would vote in abor­tion or other cases. 
see CLINTON I page 6 

Grazin: Yeltsin could face impeachment 
By JOHN LUCAS Assistant News Editor 
While it is likely that Boris Yeltsin will eventually face im­peachment as a result of the current crisis in the former Soviet Union, democracy and capitalism will remain intact, according to Igor Grazin, fac­ulty fellow at the Kellogg Insti­tute. 
"The most probable outcome is that he (Yeltsin) will be im­peached, and he is not going to step down," he said. "The cur­rent confrontation will last. and although it is not dangerous. it is bad anyway, because it takes attention away from economic problems." 
The current crisis in Moscow centers around both the constitutional powers of President Yeltsin. and the Russian Parliament's fear of an authoritarian dictator. ac­cording to Grazin. 
Grazin, just returned from a ten day visit to Russia, where he was able to meet with a number of current Russian of­ficials, including Justice Minis­ter Nikolai Fedorov. explained that members of Parliament are as worried about future 
• 
Support for reforms/ page 7 

• 
News analysis/ page 7 


Presidents as they are about the current situation involving Yeltsin. 
"While the Parliament is not necessarily against Yeltsin, he has a two term limitation. When he leaves. who is to say the next president will not be a dictator?" he said. 
The conflict is further complicated by Yeltsin's dec­laration of emergency powers, which was necessary, but dangerous, according to Grazin, a former Estonian representative to the Soviet Congress of People's Deputies. 
"Yeltsin had to move in a de­cisive manner. What the rest of the people will say has to be in the back of his mind. be· cause there is always that dan· ger of civil war," he said. 
Despite 'all of Yeltsin's trou­bles, the current events will in no way affect democracy or bring back the days of commu­nist hard-liners. 
"There are good guys and bad guys in this situation ... but even the bad guys are democrats -there are no hard-liners. Even the worst re· 
see GRAZIN I page 6 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
Quack! Quack! 
These ducks enjoy the puddles in front of North Dining Hall after a recent rain storm. With the recent wet weather students have had to avoid puddles or else get their feet get wet. 
Notre Dame professor testifies before Senate 
By ALICIA REALE Associate News Editor 
Peri Arnold, professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame, testified March 11 before a U.S. Senate committee considering reforms in the federal government's executive branch. 
The Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs is exam­ining four bills that propose to create commissions to recom­mend reforms in the executive branch. Arnold was asked by committee chair Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, to address the "historical perspective on suc­cessful reorganization efforts, as well as the relationship be­tween government organization and improved program performance." 
"The current tone of Ameri­can politics is reform. Ross Perot sent across that message clearly," Arnold said. "The committee is affected by the spirit of reform. They know something needs to be done regarding the government's efficacy." 
A member of the ND faculty since 1971, Arnold is a special­ist in American politics and public administration and has extensively studied aspects of federal government reform. His book "Making the Managerial Presidency" was used as a source by congressional re­searchers working on the pro­posed legislation. 
Arnold was called by mem­bers of the committee's staff. They invited him to testify orally and in more detailed written form before them. He was one of three academics testifying along with Leon Panetta, director of budget, and Charles Bowscher, comptroller generaL The committee sought consultation through the testi­monies. 
Reform in government would primarily be geared towards the federal level, according to Arnold. "It is the big part of federal bureaucracy in which almost 3 million people are working that money is getting spent. 
"We need to figure out how to make the government do better work for less money. The pay off would be better government, saving money and less deficit," he said. 
"The bills proposed are to create commissions to study and recommend reforms which would lead a decision about the kind of process we should create," Arnold said. 
It is likely that one bill with parts of each the four bills will be the ultimate result, he said. "I hope the things we talked about in the hearing will be in-eluded in the bill." The senate committee is in the process of information gathering, and Arnold's testimony. along with others'. helped the senate committee think about the way it wants to act, according to Arnold. 
After members of the com­mittee called upon him, Arnold had three weeks to produce what he called "the equivalent of an academic paper." 
"It was an incredible amount of hard work. I had worked in the area before but this was the first time I had to answer the question what does this mean, how could the government work better," he said. This question pushes the researcher to think about his/her work more practically. 
He was asked to give a histor­ical perspective on lessons from the past reform experience. Big scale reforms of the past "show the Senate committee what the consequences of tl)at history has been," said Arriold. 
"I have recommended that we do not want to recreate the past. We do not want to use past lessons regarding the kinds of changes which ought to be adapted," he said. 
The purpose of past govern­mental reform is different than purposes in current opportuni­
see ARNOLD I page 6 
CALL members gather in front of clinic director's home 
Special to The Observer 
About 35 pro-life demonstra­tors met and prayed yesterday morning in front of the home of the director of the Women's Pavilion abortion clinic. 
The Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL) gathered about 7:30 a.m. yesterday and stayed about 30 minutes in front of the home of Marne Greening of Granger. 
Greening reportedly was not home when members of CALL conducted the prayer session. 
Bryan Brown of Wichita, Kan., who joined in the prayer session, said it was peaceful and quiet. 
The group of pro-life demon­strators were out marching again in front of the Women's Pavilion by 9 a.m. The demon­stration lasted about two hours. 
There, they were met again by 60 pro-choice people who guarded the entrance and driveway. Clinic representatives said all appointments for the morning were allowed in and business was not interrupted. 
It was a scaled down version of Friday's big protest in which several hundred people gath­ered at the end of the cul-de­sac to chant and walk. 
"There was not a lot of ex­citement. It was purely a peaceful demonstration to show support for the clinic and the people it serves," said Kerstin Sule, a Saint Mary's pro-choice student who took part in the demonstration. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right To Life members did not participate in the demonstra­tion because most people had classes during the time that it took place, according to Claire Johnson, co-president of the group. 
About 40 police officers from South Bend stood guard to watch over the demonstrations. 
Four women were escorted to the clinic before 10:30 a.m. yesterday while sidewalk coun­selors from CALL attempted to talk to them from the other side of the double snow fence which lines the property. 
The National Organization for Women and others stood near the door of the clinic while the more radical National Women's Rights Organized Coaliticm of Detroit stood on the perimeter taunting the pro-life people. 
The pro-choice group chanted "Cheer, cheer for Roe vs. Wade" to the more familiar tune of the Notre Dame Fight Song. 
Ellyn Stecker with St. Joseph Valley NOW said, "We really wish CALL would just go home. The fact that they haven't turned out the numbers that they said they could is an indi­cation of their lack of strength." 
Stecker said NOW also wanted to separate itself from NWROC. She said the group's confrontational tactics did not comply with NOW's tactics, and NOW did not want to spur any type of response from CALL or other pro-life groups. 
CALL has been in South Bend for a week for a number of ral­lies and pro-life talks. The group will remain in the area until Friday. 
Peter Heers, CALL founder, said it has never been a num­bers game but a matter of doing what they believe is necessary. 
"If we had three (people) out here, we would still be doing the same thing. It would all be worthwhile. People would say we failed because the numbers aren't not in the hundreds or thousands," he said. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 
t 
~-~~---~--~~ ~-------~--~----­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Lesson learned 
in and out of the class 
What was your first memory of college? Now, I don't mean partying freshman orientation weekend. When did you really see or realize there was such a place? 
Most of us at Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame Nl~ole McGrath
Satnt Mary's News had heard for years from Editor our parents, "You have to go to college. Your education Is the key to everything." But when you are a kid, things like hanging out with the neighborhood gang are key in your world. I was about seven when I tagged along with my dad to U.S.C.'s law library. The books stood out to me (and over me). So many rows and shelves and sizes. 
My dad pulled thick brown books off their shelves and dropped them on the heavy wood table with a ringing "thud." Years later, dropping books and cramming at the library have become part of my everyday routine (when I make it to the library). 
Today Saint Mary's College is sponsoring "My First D~y of College" through the Minority, InternatiOnal and Non-Traditional Student Life otlice (M.I.N.T.). 
This event brings twenty Hispanic junior high school girls to explore Saint Mary's campus so that they can get a good look at "real life in college." 
(Isn't that weird? Seniors are getting ready to enter the "real world" and junior high school girls are getting ready to look at "real college.") 
On the national level, almost one in three Hispanics in the 16-24 age group are school "dropouts," according to the 1992 Resident Hispanic Population of St. Joseph County, Indtana Report led up by Professor Martin Murphy, associate professor of anthropology at Notre Dame. 
• But locally, there is better news. 
"In Saint Joseph County the Hispanic 'dropout' rate is significantly lower than the national rate for Hispanics, but still a very high 26.5 percent," the report added. 
When these Hispanic girls walk into Madeleva Hall for classes with their Saint Mary's guide, or sample a bit of our finest Marriott food at the dining hall, welcome them. 
Because not only can they be exposed to all the great aspects of Saint Mary's, but we, can pick up a thing or two, as well. 
"Colleges are now being more attuned to the community. The town can do a lot for us, too," said Murphy. 
What the twenty junior high school students ~ill ~ake from Saint Mary's can only be tmagmed. What those twenty Saint Mary's students will learn can't be learned in a college classroom. 
Ethnic diversity can be turned into a seminar class, but experiencing ethnic cultures extends outside of the classroom as well. 
It's a lesson we must pursue long after we at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame graduate from college. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Sports  
Frank Rivera  Jason Kelly  
Michael O'Hara  Kevin Dolan  

Wednesday, March 24, 1993
The Observer 
Detroit  
Indianapolis  
Jerusalem  
London  
Los Angeles  
Madrid  
Minneapolis  
Moscow  37  
Nashville  63  
New York  47  
FRONTS:  Pans  54  
•••COLD  •• WARM  •• •STATIONARY  Philadelphia Rome  46 66 56 44  
61  
Pressure H L  .D.C.  45  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

• BEMIDJI, Mmn. -Two former television journalists were sentenced to 90 days in jail and fined $500 each for buying beer for teenagers to film a story on und~r.age drinking. The .j~dge stayed all but 10 days of the Jail sentence on cond1tton of good behavior, payment of the fine or six months' community service. And he said they could serve their 10 days' jail time working in a community-service program. Reporter Kelly Nelson and came~aman. Jim Talley were sentenced Monday afte~ pleadmg guilty last month to furnishing alcohol to a mmor. The two were accused of buying two cases of beer in November and then filming six teenagers drinking the beer in a report for KCCO-TV in Alexandria. The report was broadcast Nov. 24. The station fired the two and made an on-air apology. 
OF INTEREST 
• Juniors Orientation on Services of the Career and Placement Services Office and preparation for Job Search," a presentation by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Services, will be from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
Cornell considering gay living unit 
• ITHACA, N.Y.-Student Carla Roland was walking along a stone path on the Cornell University campus one day last fall when she saw a message scrawled in colored chalk. It said "1-800-DIE-HOMO." "My life cha':l~ed,." said ~he 21-year-old senior, who is gay. "It's so VIVtd m my mmd. It was a huge turning point for me." Roland and several other students soon asked for a separate living area for homosexual students. The Ivy League campus is split over the idea, with debate focused on whether segregation is the best way to foster tolerance. Cornell's Student Assembly passed a proposal this month calling for a wing of a campus dormitory to be reserved for about 60 students, homosexual or heterosexual. interested in promoting "gay, lesbian and bisexual awareness." Other colleges have established gay-oriented housing units in recent years with little controversy. 
Columnist's condition critical 
• 
ATLANTA Columnist and author Lewis Grizzard, in extremely critical condition after 12 hours of surgery, was placed on a list of patients needing heart tra~splants. AFter Monday's daylong operation, during which doctors Implanted a lifesaving device to help his heart pump, Grizzard was returned to surgery twice Tuesday because of bleeding. "He is in a grave situa­tion,. but he is stable," said Emory University Hospital cardtologist Dr. Randy Martin. "The pumps are func­tioning well." The 46-year-old humorist writes a column for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution and is syndicated in 450 newspapers across the country. He also has written 17 books. 

• 
A Taize prayer service will be at 6:30 p.m. in the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's. 

• 
The Hall Council on Alcohol and Other Drug Issues will meet at 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Production Accent 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 22 
Kim Massman Elisabeth Heard Mike Scrudato Matt Carbone 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 286,549,860 -0.08 to 247.26 
Viewpoint 

S&P COMPOSITE 
-.12 to 448.76
Michael O'Hara 
DOW JONES INDUSTRlALS -1.62 to 3,461.86 
Brian Seiler 
UNCHANGED 627 

GOLD 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday -$1.00 to $332.30 /oz 
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
SILVER 
rights are reserved. -$0.028 to $3.646/oz 
• 
In 1958: Rock-and-roll singer Elvis Presley was inducted into the Army in Memphis, Tenn. 

• 
In 1976: The president of Argentina, Isabel Peron, was deposed by her country's military. 

• 
In 1980: Archbishop Oscar Arnulto Romero, one of El Salvador's most respected Roman Catholic Church leaders, was shot to death by gunmen as he celebrated Mass in San Salvador. 

• 
In 1989: The nation's worst oil spill occurred as the supertanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on a reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound and began leaking 11 million gallons of crude. 


--------~--------~~ 
Wednesday, March 24 The Observer 
Saint Mary's sponsors 'My First Day' program 
Special to The Observer 
Twenty junior high school Hispanic girls are participating in the first ever "My First Day in College" event today at Saint Mary's College, according to Maricela Ramirez, director of the Minority, International and Non-traditional Student Life (MINT) office. 
The students, from the South Bend Community School Cor­poration's bilingual education program, will get a chance to be exposed to the collegiate ex­perience.Students arrive at 9 
a.m. and will meet with a Saint Mary's student who will act as a guide. Their activities include attending classes and eating meals at the dining hall. Each student will·get a chance to stay overnight with her host. 
Saint Mary's also sponsors similar introductory programs for junior high and high school students in other areas. During the summer, students from places like Gary, Indiana and Chicago, Illinois attend a sum­mer camp called "El Campo de la Cultura y Conocimiento". 
The summer camp allows for students to take bits and pieces of regular college classes as well as living in the dorms. 
"My First Day in College" is the first time such a program has been offered during the academic year. Plans call for the event to be offered twice a year in the future, according to Ramirez. 
COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I AUDIO ACCESSORIES I VIDEOS 
(/) ....... 


~ DEPECHE MODE ~ 
(/) 
Songs Of Faith
w 
(/) 
(.) 

ott And Devotion­
(..!) 
z 
>­
0::: 0::: ott 
(.) 
(/) ,,
w 
~ 
(/) SIRE 
w 
(.) 
(.) 
ott 0 

8 
w OUT TOCAV 
0 
> AND 


ON SALE AT 
lHl HAMMlS 
(/) 
(/) 

(.) N 0 l R l D A M-l 8 0 0 K S l 0 R l 
0 ·ua t~e cam~os" 
~ 
::@ OPlN MONOAY-SAlUROAY 9-5
; 
(.) 
a~ 
" ~ Q~
. 
~ 
V1 
~!! .. ~ 8 
~ V1 
....... 




~i1!
(") 
~~ 
....... 
-~ 
pa~ 
=ir"'' 
V1 
I COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I AUDIO ACCESSORIES I VIDEOS 
page 3 

NO trustee Sullivan dies 
By ALICIA REALE 
Associate News Editor 
Frank Sullivan, a life trustee of Notre Dame, died Sunday at age 69 at St. Joseph's Medical Center in South Bend of pneu­monia complicated by Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. 
"He was devoted to Notre Dame," said his son Frank Sul­livan, Jr. "He was always active in Notre Dame affairs. The Uni­versity was a major part of his life. 
"He reflected the values of Notre Dame as an institution. He was a strong Catholic, sup­portive of his family, a success­ful business man, and devoted to the community and making life better for others," Sullivan said. 
A 1949 alumnus of NO, Sulli­van was president of Frank Sullivan Associates, a South Bend insurance agency, from 1953-73. From 1973 until his retirement in 1988, he served as executive vice president, president and vice chair of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. in Newark. 
Sullivan is survived by four Indianapolis, Mary Sullivan, Louisville; Anne Kaminski, Canton, Oh.; and Robert Sulli­van, Toledo. His wife, Colette, died in 1991. 
"His (Sullivan's) interests were wide and varied but he always found time to give back to the community as well as business interests," said Mary Sullivan. 
Sullivan was appointed to the University's Board of Trustees in 1973. Among his many ser­vices to Notre Dame, he was national vice chair of the Strategic Moment campaign, the most successful fund-rais­ing effort in the history of Catholic higher education. 
He received an honorary doc­tor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1984 and was a recip­ient of the Sorin Award given by the University's Alumni As­sociation for distinguished ser­vice. 
In addition to his activities with Notre Dame, Sullivan was a volunteer leader in a variety of civic, charitable, religious and political causes. He founded and was the first president of the United Way in South Bend and also assisted that organization in Newark. In 
1987 the United Way honored him with the Alexis de Toc­queville Society Award for out­standing community service. 
"He was kind and supporting and always concerned about other people before himself. This was reflected in his many volunteer involvements," said Mary Sullivan. 
Funeral services are sched­uled for 10 this morning at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, and burial will follow at St.

Date: Thurs. • 3/25 
Joseph Valley Memorial Park, Granger, Ind. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests that memorial contri­
butions be made to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, the con­tributors lo.;:al United Way or another charity. 

At washington Hall 

..::p ­Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office 
.A.11 p:re»c:estestd.!Si bestll1est:Ei-&; 
fRifNDS DON'T lH fRifNDS
"t;hest T ·C»M:ELll1 Cestll1"i;~:r 
DRIVf DRUNK. 
Would You Like To Teach In Special Education? 

The Department of Curriculum and Instruction at Indiana University, in Bloomington, is now accepting applications from persons with no background in Education for a new program thatwill certify personnel to teach Special Education students in the public schools. Graduates of Arts and Sciences, General Studies, SPEA and other schools are encouraged to apply. The program provides a Major in Special Education that leads to certification in Learning Disabilities, Mild Mental 
Handicaps and Severe Emotional Handicaps at the graduate level. The program begins in the summer and continues through the fall and spring semesters and the 
following summer. For further information, please contact: Dr. Richard Dever, School of Education, Room 3234, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, 47405. 

, • • o o o I o o I o I o I 0 0 o, I ' o I j 0 I o I I • I 0,' 0 , ' • o o o o I • • • o t I , o 1 to 1 1 1 j o I o 1 I 1.! o 0 0 1 o I o t I I I I 0 0 I' 0 o o o 1 of I • • 4 t I • I 0 0 I' 0 I I I I I I I 0 I I I I 0 I I ' '
0 



From Ireland to the land 
o the Fighting Irish... 

or 
er 

r1 1 1s er 
o 


re 


t 
f 
Wednesday, March 24 at 4:15
i 
' 
: 
I i 
' 
in the Library Auditorimn.
! 
t 
• 
• 
f 'I I ~ 
' ' 
Wednesday, March 24,1993 The Observer page5 

A good head on her shoulders 
Howard Hall Freshman Seana Zientek sculpts her own head for her beginning sculpture class. She has been working on this bust of herself for over a month in order to perfect the image. 
Ex-army investigator denies having Hitler letters to Braun 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP)­Clues to the existence of a trove of letters between Adolf Hitler and his mistress, Eva Braun. have long led searchers to the door of Robert Gutierrez. 
Gutierrez, who spent months in Germany at the end of World War II as a U.S. Army counter­intelligence officer searching for Hitler, has been noncom­mittal in the past. 
Now, he insists he doesn't have the letters. 
"I never had them in the first place," he told The Associated Press. He wouldn't comment further. 
Gutierrez, 78, has been ha­rassed for years by collectors. historians, treasure hunters and writers who believe he found the correspondence, said his daughter, Sarah Gutierrez. an Albuquerque elementary school teacher. 
Days before Hitler and Braun hundreds of letters from Hitler and Braun. along with photo albums, eight reels of home movies, silverware, jewelry and clothing. 
Although Gobler said he ordered another officer, Franz Konrad, to destroy everything, much of it was recovered. The National Archives in Washing­ton has the home movies as well as thousands of pho­tographs. 
The letters never turned up. 
Sarah Gutierrez, 46, said her father had three pieces of sil­verware and a dress belonging to Braun. Eventually, they went to a German museum, and her father took no money for them, she said. 
"If there had been two tin trunks, we would have known about it," she said. "There aren't any." 
Still, history buffs and trea­sure hunters have been beating 


page 6 The Observer Wednesday , March 24,1993 
son. And we got nothing -and 
Bomb victim·s father pleads with IRA to stop
I emphasize nothing -in re­
Clinton 
turn." 
continued from page 1 
• On a crucial trade issue, he said that chances for selling American goods to Japan on an equal basis are "somewhat remote" in view of the huge and persistent trade surplus enjoyed by Tokyo. 
He renewed his support for higher tariffs on foreign-made minivans, saying he was "astonished" that the Bush administration "gave a $300 million a year freebie to the Japanese for no apparent rea-

Arnold 
continued from page 1 
ties of reform, according to Arnold. "The past has largely focused implicitly on making the federal bureau better fitted to an expanding government. 
"The current concern is how do we make the government smaller." Testimony was de­signed to help make govern­ment leaner and work better, he said. 
There is a high level of agreement in the committee to 

Grazin 
continued from page 1 
sisted the tanks in August 1991," Grazin said, referring to the failed coup against then­Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev. 
For Western investors and business interested in bringing their products to the former Soviet Union, the constitutional crisis is of little importance, compared to many more im­portant economic factors, ac­cording to Grazin. 
"Who the Russian President is will not affect business. It does not matter who is in charge... tariffs, taxes, trade barriers ­this is what matters," he said. 
Explaining that many foreign investors are reluctant to ad­vertise their successes in Russia for fear of losing their market share to competing businesses, Grazin said that many western firms have found success in Russia. 
"Things are going much bet­ter than you read. If you have 300 percent of the market, the last person you want to talk to is a journalist," he said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Michiana chapter of the Society of Professional Journal­ists. 
Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional assoctallons. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director of Notre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the fust quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director, and Robert Havlik, Engineering Librarian emeritus. All members 
of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty are eligible. Please send names of nominees to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, c/o Michael Morris, Department of Accountancy, 234 Hayes-Healy, by April 16. 
• On Russia, Clinton drew a sharp distinction between Yeltsin as "the first democrati­cally elected president in 1,000 years of Russian government" and the "communist era" lawmakers who want to im­peach him. 
While offering a warm en­dorsement of the embattled Russian leader, Clinton said he would not speculate on whether 
U.S. policy would change or whether American aid would still be forthcoming if Yeltsin were impeached. 
make a recommendation to the Senate this Spring, yet Presi­dent Clinton wants them to hold off until August when Vice President Gore will make rec­ommendations of the same spirit, according to Arnold. The White House wants the Senate to wait until it could take recommendations from Gore's enterprise as its starting place. 
"They have the same ambi­tions yet the Senate committee looks more broadly and deeply than the presidential initiative," said Arnold. "A congressionally created committee can more easily be able to recommend changes in law." 
WARRINGTON, England (AP) -The father of a three-year­old boy killed by an IRA bomb said Tuesday he hoped his only child's death could be the last from Northern Ireland's trou­bles. 
"I think these people should stop it right away, finish it ofT and let it go," said 58-year-old Wilfred Ball, whose son Johnathan was killed by one of two bombs detonated in War­rington's shopping district on Saturday. Fifty-six people were injured. 
"I am wishin to God that this little child will be the start of this -will start something to stop it," said Ball, who spoke haltingly and at times cried at a news conference. 
Although the Irish Republican Army has been setting off bombs in England for 20 years in its campaign to end British rule in Northern Ireland, the death of Johnathan provoked an unusual amount of outrage. 
It is perhaps the biggest em­barrassment to the IRA since it killed 11 civilians at a World War I memorial in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, in 1987. 
As it has done in other in­stances of civilian deaths, the IRA accused police of failing to act on precise warnings. Police say two telephone warnings about a half-hour before the two explosions did not mention Warrington. 
"They (the IRA) have taken my life away, my young child from me that I have always wanted and after just three years and 10 months," said Ball. 
"He's priceless. He was a beautiful angel." 


O'MALLEY AWARD 
7993 UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER Of _THE YEAR A WARD 
•
what IS I·r?. 
Each year a committee of students represent­ing all years and majors decide which under­graduate prof has best dedicated his/her time and effort to classroom teaching. The chosen prof wins an award of $1 000. 
an students nominate the profs? 
YES! Forms for nominating your favorite and most deserving profs will be available in the Student Government OfficE: 2nd floor of Lafortune starting Fri. March 19. They will be due by Wed. March 31 . 


288-028 Wednesday ~0 co~1o Friday U93 1150 ~~~awaka Student Night \)e\O~e Live Remote $1 OFF cover Come in for a chance to win an with student ID overnight getaway for 2 in one of 
Basixhas a 
and don't Chicago's exclusive hotels. catering license 
forget your 2 Tickets to see PRINCE in concert pennies! Dinner for 2 at the Hard Rock Cafe 
__..,...,___...,,, ,..,.,,...,._._.......,.,..,.,.,., ,_, 
qa 
Wednesday, March 24, 1993 The Observer page 7 
Yeltsin, other Russian reformers receive Clinton support 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton lent forceful sup­port Tuesday to Boris Yeltsin as Russia's "first elected president in 1,000 years," but did not exclude backing other Moscow reformers who would limit nuclear weapons while developing democracy and free markets. 
"With or without President Yeltsin in authority, from now I suppose until the end of time, or at least in the foreseeable fu­ture. the United States will have those interests," Clinton said at his first formal news conference in the White House. 
In any event, he said he would be ready with "an ag­gressive and quite specific plan" of aid for Yeltsin's gov­ernment at next week's summit in Canada. "Russia is and must remain a democracy," Clinton said. 
As he spoke to reporters, Secretary of State Warren Christopher held a lengthy meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev on the political crisis in Moscow and preparations for the summit. 
"Be alert, but don't worry," 
Kozyrev said in a brief ex­
change with reporters, his op­
timism cloaking the galloping 
inflation and other woes beset­
ting the Russian people as 
Yeltsin jousts with Communists, 
nationalists, and plant 
managers to try to push 
through his U.S.-backed reform 
programs. 
Kozyrev insisted: "Everything is OK and under control." He said ways will be sought for cooperation among democrats, "with a small and with a capital D," in Moscow and in Washington. 
After lunch with Christopher at the State Department, the foreign minister went on to meet with Secretary of Defense Les Aspin at the Pentagon and then with House Speaker Thomas Foley, Senate Demo­cratic Leader George Mitchell and Senate Republican Leader Robert Dole of Kansas on Capi­tol Hill. 
Next month, the Clinton ad­ministration will ask Congress to approve a large boost in U.S. technical aid to Russia, from $417 million to about $700 mil­lion. 
Kozyrev is due to see Clinton at the White House on Wednes-,. day, when a decision is likely on whether the April 3-4 summit now scheduled for Vancouver, Canada, will be shifted. Moving it to Moscow would allow Yeltsin to maintain a close watch on his opponents' efforts to reverse his assumption of special powers and to derail the April 25 national referendum he proposes to gain the people's endorsement. 
Clinton said he might speak to Yeltsin about the summit site and date after getting "a direct, firsthand appraisal" from Kozyrev. But at the moment, the president said, there was no request to make a change, and Kozyrev said after seeing Christopher "no changes" were anticipated. 
The foreign minister outlined Russia's economic program and Yeltsin 's goals over a roast­chicken luncheon with Christo­pher. They also discussed the summit agenda and hoped to wrap it up at another meeting Wednesday. 
During his visit to the Capitol, Kozyrev was asked by reporters if it would be politically risky for Yeltsin to travel to Vancouver. "No, I don't think so," he replied. 
Clinton said Americans "have no reason to be concerned" about control of Russia's formidable nuclear arsenal ­
more  than  20,000  nuclear  
warheads  - during the power  
crisis.  

'"''We are monitoring that very closely," Clinton said. "We feel good about it." 
Asked if he would support another leader if Yeltsin were toppled, the President said he 
.would be guided by whether 
U.S. interests were being served in Russia. 
Those interests, he said, are: Making the world a safer place by reducing the threat of nu­clear war and the spread of nuclear weapons, developing democracy and freedom, and supporting the development of a market economy. 
Kozyrev later called that list "not bad at all, very good." 
1993 .. 1994 EMPLOYMENT 
Student Activities is hiring students for the 93-94 academic year. 
Positions available in all areas:  
Office Assistants  LaFortune Building Managers  
Stepan Building Managers  Information Desk Attendants  
Sound Technicians  Games Room Attendants  
Building Set Up Crew  Ballroom Room Monitors  
24 Hour Lounge Monitors  Irish Express Clerks/Managers  

Pick up applications at 315 LaFortune. Deadline extended to Friday, March 26. 
$11U8 I II #41 1-1 
' Pangborn Hall presents:~ 

,nii,,ii:'1;·,Russians ··stuck;1between democracy, totalitarianism 
MOSCOW (AP)-Russians have embraced Western words li~e ''democracy/' ''congress" and "president." but they are having trouble grasping the 11pderlying concepts. The fight now in Moscow is less about constitutional fine points than about power, ambition and wealth. Russian reformers say. 
"We have one foot in the democratic . tradition, but one ~Qot stHlJ:n the totalitarian tradition,'' said · Viktor Boriswuk, an expert in U.S, and }ll,J.Ssial) ~onstituti,Qnal Jaw. and a.()onsultant to th~ CqJ!gressfeople'sDeputies. .,· . . . 
•.• · Presid~nt Boris Xe.!*sin, a (or:m. · 09JUn\~nist Patty boss/ ~nd .·.·.·..·.. ers of the q()ngress owned factories and farms. Control of that property gives them wealth and power they would lose in a democratic, free-market system. 

The conflict. said former Communist Politburo member Alexander Yakovlev, concerns "property and ownership, as up to 95 percent of all property in the countryis still owned by the state.,. 
The .Congress . opposesYeltsin's efforts to allow private ownership of land and to transfer sta.te:owned industries .and .business... to. In d i vld u al shareholders. il> 
Ya~()vlev, ~he architect o MikhaU • Gorbachev'si glasno!)t policy, on Monday urgen 



featuring:
SpEc\~ A L•• •New Wolf Tanntng Beds 
d1anntng • Facial Tanners
Un\\mi\e • Luxurious, Clean Pnvate for 1Month Rooms
•Stereo & Body Cooltng Wtth Every Lounge.

$ 35 
272-0312 
~~'~' ~~!~l~e1A ~~~ 
Closed Monday Plenty of parking Minutes from campus 
& Co. Is Your 
New Wolf Tanning Center 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, March 24, 1993 

Government forces capture 
Scientists isolate gene responsible 
rebel-held city in Angola

for fatal Huntington's disease 
LUANDA, Angola (AP) -The gade gene that causes Hunting­journal Cell.· versity of British Columbia, "I BOSTON (AP) -The rene­being published in this week's Michael Hayden of the Uni­
government said Tuesday that ton's disease has been found Among the many mysteries think they have found a major 
its forces have captured Caxito, after a decade-long search, remaining is just what the cause of Huntington's in the 
the closest rebel-held city to the capital and the second in two
opening the possibility of devis· normal version of this gene majority of families." ing ways to control this devas­does and how the bad version Hayden had been competing 
weeks ceded by the insurgents. tating killer, scientists said destroys specific brain cells. with the collaborative group. In 
It was not clear, however, Tuesday. The discovery is especially this week's issue of Nature, he 
whether the rebels actually The di'>covery gives scientists intriguing because it turns out proposed a different genetic 
were defeated or were simply their first peek into how the that Huntington's disease re­mutation as a cause of the dis­
returning to the guerrilla tactic body's basic controls go awry sults from a "genetic stutter," ease. But he said in an inter­
of controlling roads and rural when this disease is passed an explosive reproduction of view that the gene he found 
areas while harassing govern­from parent to child. While an one tiny bit of genetic informa­might be a rare cause of the 
ment-held cities. eventual cure is stlll far from tion. It is the fourth time scien­disease or entirely unrelated to 
The official Jornal de Angola certain, the work should pro­tists have discovered illnesses Huntington's. 
newspaper reported Caxito's vide a wealth of clues for devel­resulting from such an error. 
fall. About 33,000 Caxito resi­oping therapies. They now suspect many others The collaborative group 
dents had fled to a refugee "It may be possible to develop may have similar causes. checked 75 Huntington's dis­
camp in Luanda after UNrTA effective treatments to slow or "It's a fascinating discovery. A ease families and found that all 
forces invaded in November. Some now have begun walking stop the progression of this new world of genetic explo­of them carried the defective home, 38 miles northeast. parently contributed to the de·frightful disorder," said Dr. ration is opening up in front of gene they identified. James Gusella of Massachusetts our eyes," said Dr. Murray The scientists dubbed the 
A government military officer struction. General Hospital. Goldstein, director of the Na· gene IT15, short tor 
~n Luanda, speaking on condi­The officer said most UNITA About 25,000 Americans tiona! Institute of Neurological "interesting transcript 15." 
tion of anonymity, said UNITA troops withdrew after MiG-23 destroyed much of Caxito's in­fighter jets began strikeshave Huntington's disease, and Disorders and Stroke. Every gene in the body con­frastructure before withdraw­against Caxito more than a125,000 others are at risk. The The search for the gene be· tains code for assembling pro­progressively debilitating dis· gan in earnest after Gusella teins. Inherited diseases occur 
ing. Government air raids ap-week ago. ease, whose victims include the found its approximate location when this code is garbled. late folk singer Woody Guthrie, in 1983. That discovery allowed The researchers found that attacks the brain and wrecks doctors to test people to see if Huntington's disease occurs control over mental and pbysi· they inherited the gene. when three units of code cal functions. somehow get repeated over and 


SPRING SALE 
Currently, there is no treat­In 1984, researchers formed over. ment for Huntington's disease, the Huntington's Disease Col­
March 25, 26, 27 & 28
which is relentlessly fatal. laborative Research Group to In healthy people, this seg­"Suddenly we can start talk· pool their talents. Besides ment of code is repeated 11 to ing about what can be done," Gusella, the chief scientists 34 times. Those with Hunting­
Save 10-40°/o on es, trainers,
said Marilyn Seichter of Hart· were Hans Lehrash of the Im· top's disease have at least 42 ford, Conn., a Huntington's perial Cancer Research Fund in copies, and some have twice 
clothing, accessories and rollerblades 
victim. "This is not hope for England, David Housman of that many. those who are afflicted. It is Massachusetts Institute of The researchers have prelim­
THIS Is A SALE 
life." Technology, John Wasmuth of inary evidence that the more Gusella and more than 50 the University of California, copies of the code people carry, 
You Wo 'T WANT To Miss! 
other researchers, principally Irvine, Francis Collins of the the earlier in life they will be from six institutions, worked University of Michigan and afflicted by Huntington's dis­
Thurs 12~8 Fri 12 
together to track down the Peter Harper of the University ease. 
Sat 10~4 Sun 12~4 
gene, which causes Hunting· of Wales. At least three other inherited ton's disease when it becomes "I think this is a great day for diseases result from similar re­
603 N. Second St., Niles 
(616) 683~3100
defective. Their findings were Huntington's research," said Dr. peats of genetic code. 

The Campus View "No Nonsense" Lease is the Best and that's a Fact. 
Fact #1 We offer a 9 and 12 month lease that beats any competitor's lease. Fact #2 We pay all utilities-no surprises-no hidden charges. Fact #3 Every unit is furnished-all you do is move in. Fact #4 We feature on site management and the best security. Fact #5 Two baths in every two bedroom unit. Fact #6 Fair, honest, professional management-we care! Fact #7 We can help if you have a·desire to sub ... lease. Fact #8 We have an all student complex. 
Let us help you with your bottom line costs. 


Call Dorene at 272--1441 

--------~------~~----------~------~--~~-~~~~.~----~---==-.-.--~....~---·p~~--qn~==~~..~.-.c~~~, 
j 
Wednesday • March 24, 1993 The Observer page 9 

University announces January grant receipts 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $5,944,416 in grants during January for the support of research and various pro­grams. Research funds totaled $969,089, including: 
• 
$193,900 from the National Institutes of Health for research by Marvin Miller, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on drugs and delivery systems for opportunistic infections. 

• 
$138.107 from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration Lewis Research Center for research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, on aero­dynamics and aeroacoustics of nonuniform flows. 

• 
$104,566 from the National Institutes of Health for research by Malcolm Fraser Jr., associate professor of biological sciences, on transposon mutagenesis of nuclear polyhedrosis viruses. 

• 
$97.405 from the National Institutes of Health for research by Frederick Goetz, Jr., profes­sor of biological sciences, on 


,. 
Birthdau Liz Nichol! Love,Mom and Dad and Familu 
ACourse In 







Economics. 

Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality 
,-------l~-------J,-------l 
:$1.00 Off : : $5.00 Off: :200/o Off : Haircut : : Perm 1 !All Haircare1 
I i I i I ~j~~u~\~~~~~~~s I ; ~j~u~\~~~~~~~~ i : ~~~~u~\~~~~~~~s I reg $8.95 I I i ! I I I I I I -~~ J L_!Y'Iasters_~_J L_Ma~~J 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Req•s COfoorat•on !99~ 
277-3770 
phosphatidylinositol-protein ki­nase C and ovulation. 
• 
$86,906 from Argonne Na­tional Laboratory for investiga­tions on TNT biotransformation by Charles Kulpa Jr., professor of biological sciences. 

• 
$85,000 from the National Science Foundation for research on antifreeze proteins by John Duman, professor of biological sciences. and Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

• 
$65,500 from the Amoco Chemical Research Center for fine acid degradation studies by Charles Kulpa Jr., professor of biological sciences. 

• 
$40,000 from Union Carbide for research on optimal catalyst activity distributions in pellets 

• 
$37,500 from Purdue Uni­versity for research by Thomas Mueller, chair and RothGibson professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 

• 
$29,374 from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation 


by  Arvind  Varma,  Schmitt  
professor  of  chemical  
engineering.  

for research by F. Clark Power, associate professor in the pro­gram of liberal studies, on the construction of self-evaluation processes. 
• 
$29,152 from the U.S. Navy for research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and mec chanica! engineering, on aero­dynamics and aeroacoustics of nonuniform flow. 

• 
$20,000 from E.l. Dupont DeNemours & Co. for research by Jeffrey Kantor, professor of chemical engineering, on data compression with wavelets for process monitoring and control. 

• 
$19,999 from Argonne Na­tional Laboratory for research by Craig Alcock, Freimann professor of electrical engineer­ing, on the development of sul­fur-tolerant electrode materials. 

• 
$18,000 from McDonald's Corp. for research by Steven Skaar, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on production control systems. 

• 
$3,680 from the American Astronomical Society for re­search by Terrence Rettig, as­sociate professional specialist in physics. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $4,729,376, including: 
• $4,6 71,250 from Aries Tech 

Journey Of Hope
Sponsored by: Murder Victims Families for Reconciliation 
Robert Gross (Journey of Hope coordinator) 
-will describe the purpose and nature of the "Journey of Hope" campaign in Indiana against the death penalty. 
Ruth Andrews (Victim and Offender 
Reconciliation Program) 
-<Will describe her own experiences in dealing with the loss of a family member to murder 
March 25, 1993 
Noon • Law School Courtroom 
~~===:30.= :
:oo=.===:·····~·-····,.,J 

The Notre Dame Council on 
International Business Development 
p:r-eseill.ll:::s 
SPRING FORUM 1993 Commerce in the Context of Latin American Development "Growth in the Making" 
THURSDAY MARCH 25, 1993 
for computer aided engineering software for undergraduate education to be used by Billie Spencer, Jr. 
• $58,126 from the National Science Foundation for a high resolution video processing system for research by Daniel Costello, Jr., professor of elec­trical engineering. 
Awards for instructional pro­grams totaled $ 5,000 from the National Science Foundation for a research experience for un­dergraduates program admin­istered by Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering. 
Awards for service programs totaled $36,951 from anony­mous benefactors for various programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totaled $204,000, including: 
• 
$200,000 from the Saint Gerard Foundation for a pro­gram in Thomistic studies by Ralph Mcinerny, Grace profes­sor of medieval studies and di­rector of the Jacques Maritain Center 

• 
$4,000 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for a program in assessing· the legacy of Antoine Busnoys by Paula Higgins, associate pro­fessor of music. 


Speaking will be visiting professor Ruben LoVuolo, Fr. Ernest Bartell, as well as other noted economists from Latin American countries. AQuestion &Answer session will follow. 

7:30pm Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
British man leaves cult 
::t:.:-·· ,~:,:H_~; ··J. 
>compound 
·:.~r 
WACO, Texas (AP) -A Bri­tish man emerged from the Branch Davidian cult's fortified compound Tuesday. the 35th person to depart in a standoff with federal agents that has lasted nearly a month. 
And authorities said they had offered cult leader David Ko­resh access to a national radio network once he surrenders, seeming to meet a demand he has repeatedly expressed. "Basically, ,he dismissed it out of hand," FBI agent Bob Ricks said. 
Livingston Fagen, described as a Briton in his mid-30s. left the cult around mid-morning, the first to abandon Koresh since Sunday. 
Authorities had complained that most of the 13 other adults who had departed earlier were elderly or ill. and worried that nearly 100 others believed to be still holed up are more fit for battle. 
_Ricks said agents were en­couraged by yesterday's depar· ture of a younger man but had received no new evidence a breakthrough was near. 
"We continue trying to drive home 'What is the time frame or schedule that you're operat­ing under?"' Ricks said. ''He refuses to discuss with speci­ficity where he wants to go to get this issue resolved." 
GRouNoHoo DAv (PGJ 
Sw~~5ki~15(M~13)
s:oo. 7:30,..10:00 
POINT OF No nETURN (R) 
4 7 930 
.~~-~~~· ··~­

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, March 24, 1993 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Catholicism is not 'extreme' 

Dear Editor: 
The word extreme can be defined as: ufarthest away; utmost; very great; excessive; unconventional or radical." That definition clearly does not apply to one who acts as a Catholic, opposes murder, and expects Catholic institutions to promote morals and values. 
Yet the term "extreme" has been used time and again by the majority of The Observer editors to describe the words and actions of Pro-Life college students at the University of Notre Dame. These students have been branded with the label "extreme" merely because they recognize the fact that Notre Dame has compromised its Catholic position in favor of adaptation to the politically correct world of university education. 
The editors realize that Notre Dame, as a Catholic institution. need not indoctrinate its students, but must educate them. Bravo! This is true. Yet as a Catholic and non-secular institution, the University of Notre Dame is bound to pro­mote morality and educate its students about the truth. 
Contrary to ed~torial belief, Notre Dame has not shown that it is possible to be Catholic and to be a university. Why not? The University has sold itself out by prostituting itself to the conformity pressures of the amoral, politically correct, secular world. There have been many examples of how the University has done so with regard to the Pro-Life move­ment. 
One glaring example has been the University's engage­ment in the use of fetal brain tissue for experiments in its Biochemistry laboratories. The editors claim that Notre Dame has "even supported Pro-Life values by banning fetal tissue research in university laborato­ries." Wow! Amazing! What an incredibly Catholic declaration of support for Pro-Life. Yet, sadly enough, this occurred only because of the tremendous outcry generated by the em­barrassing disclosure of one of Notre Dame's best kept secrets. 
The editors closed their 
article by again debauching "insane" "Pro-Life extremism." Yet once again I must inquire about what defines such Pro­Life extremism." Is it a defense of all life as opposed to a de­fense of only some life? Is it acting in a manner befitting a Catholic? Is it acting in a man­ner befitting a Christian? Is it acting in a manner befitting a human being? Can such Pro­Life extremist actions be cate­gorized by Pope John Paul II as he declared the ultimate test of your greatness is the way you treat every human being... especially the weakest and most defenseless ones ... those as yet unborn." (September 19, 1987)? 
If acting in such a manner necessitates jumping on the extremist bandwagon, why don't you tell your fellow Notre Dame students where they can sign up? 
Rob Schlosser 
Cavanaugh Hall 
March 22, 1993 

.. 
Avoid being compared to Nazi Germany, keep abortion legal in the US 
Dear Editor: 
In a letter in The Observer (March 17), Andrew DeKever presented a comparison be­tween the Holocaust and abor­tion. He concluded that abor­tion is much worse than the Holocaust and that the gov­ernment and people of the United States, by allowing abortion to continue, are as bad as the Nazis, if not worse. 
This comparison and conclu­sion are not new. The same ar­gument has appeared before in the pages of The Observer, and I myself have heard it used a number of times outside of Notre Dame. 
In all of these arg_uments, however, one important fact has been passed over in silence, namely the fact that the Nazis were aggressively opposed to abortion. Soon after Hitler came into power, he and his 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
followers began to enforce strict anti-abortion laws. 
According to the historian Hans Peter Bleuel (in Sex and Society in Nazi Germany), un­der the Nazis, "women could be-and were meant to be-sentenced to hard labor [for having an abortion]. abortionists to death." This opposition to abortion continued throughout the Nazi era. 
It seems, therefore, that DeKever's final conclusion is wrong-that it is, in fact, com­pletely reversed. By banning abortion, the U.S. would be­come more like Nazi Germany, not less. If we wish to avoid be­ing compared to the Nazis, abortion should remain legal. 
Stephen A. Allen Off-Campus March 17, 1993 

"There is only one way to achieve happiness on this terrestial ball, and that is to have either a clear . conscience, or none at all." 
Ogden Nash 
Stop lying to yourself Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

-~--~--.....-.----------~---~ ~~· -~ 
~--------~-----~-----1 
I I I

Accent l I 
Wednesday, March 24, 1993 page 11 
Rob Schupansky 
SUPWITDAT? 
Drain, 
Drain, 

Go Away 
I 
'm walking to class the other day when I started singing that "Under the Sea" song in my head. Why, you may ask, did I start singing? Its because I had just stepped into a six-inch deep pool of rain water. (I really could not tell you the exact depth because I don't always have a ruler handy, but six inches is reasonable). I con­tinued on to class with that annoying "squish" sound after every step. I know everyone has experienced this dilemma or at least under­stands the "squishing syndrome" enough to sympathize with me. So while in class, with a puddle at my feet, I began to think, SUPWITDAT? 
I've seen some drains around campus so I don't question their existence. They're there, and I know it! I just wondered if their location was. well, reasonable. I'm just saying its common sense to put them where the water is going to wind up. Water flows downhill and you don't have to be a civil engineer to figure that out. So why is it at every low point on campus there is a puddle not a drain ? 
It's annoying to have to trudge through a marsh every time it rains. I've been told, "Well its just 'cause there's bad weather around here." Alii could answer was, "Hey STUPID! Don't you think they knew what the weather was like while building this place or was it sunny until after every storm drain was built?" I can't offer an answer, but I'm sure that the civil engineering department just might have an answer or two. If these pools get any bigger all you entrepreneurs should start a boat shop somewhere on campus. 
Maybe I'm bitter, but I've lost many a pair of shoes to the monsoons I've been through in three years. The only dry place I've seen lately is in the reflection pool near the library, and that's supposed to be filled with water! The least the university could do is supply us with flippers or something. Maybe a wet suit here and there. 
Another outcome of the lack of drainage is also the mud all over campus. The way the campus looks now we should have algae, not grass, growing around here. Maybe this is where the idea of mud pits came from way back when. Some students decided to make the best of drainage problems and start a festival about it. An Tostal was the result. 
In any case, it's something to laugh about. I mean, it's unique to our Notre Dame. We're the only "aquacampus" I know of. You have to smile, otherwise you'll drown in your sorrow {not to mention in all the water around here). After graduation you can look at the flippers you've grown after four years and reminisce. Just think, you'll be a Notre Dame grad, you'll wear plaid, you'll have gills and you will be proud. 
Next time you're walking to class and step in water, or fall in mud, take a moment to wonder why in the world it's there and why won't anyone do something about it? Then smile and wipe the mud off of your scales. Who knows, if this keeps up, someday we may be called the "Fighting Amphibians." 

Rob Schupansky's column appears every other 
Wednesday. 
Correction 
The correct times for the play "The Juggernaut" are as follows: 
Thursday, March 25 at 8 p.m. Saturday, March 27 at 8 p._m. Sunday, March 28 at 2:30p.m. 
In yesterday's article the times were printed incorrectly. The Observer regrets this error. 
Dr. Shabazz lectures at Stepan 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
Accent Writer 
Tonight Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will have the opportu­nity to listen to Dr. Betty Shabazz, widow of Malcolm X, speak on "The Status of Blacks and Women in Today's Society." 
According to Dan Alesia, ideas and issues commissioner of the Student Union Board (SUB), Shabazz's lecture is "timely and pertinent because it was after the movie "Malcolm X," which carries a prominent message, and also because of the resurgence of interest in Malcolm X." 
Dr. Shabazz began her career in nursing and holds bachelor's and master's degrees in public health, education and administration from Jersey City State College and a doctorate from the University of Massachusetts. She is currently an administrator at Medgar Evers Theta sorority, the American "based on her accomplishments and College of the City University of New Educational Research Association and the fact that her children are also on York. vice president of the Addiction the lecture circuit," said Alesia. Dr. 
Shabazz held several prominent Research and Treatment Corp. She Shabazz's daughter, Atillah, spoke at positions at Medgar Evers including was also a presidential appointee to Notre Dame earlier this year. health and science professor from the American Revolutionary Bicen-The lecture will be at 7:30 p.m. in 1976 until 1980, when she was tennial Administration advisory Stepan Center. Tickets are $3 for named the college's director of council. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students institutional advancement. In 1984 Dr. Shabazz's address is important and $5 for the general public. Theyshe was appointed director of to the Notre Dame community are available at the LaFortune communications and public relations, because "last month was Black Student Center information desk. a post she continues to hold. History Month and this month is There are several activities planned 
Dr. Shabazz is a published writer, Women's History Month. It is prior to the lecture. A press and her research has addressed important fQ bring a wide variety of conference will be held at 5:00 p.m. at topics such as the sociological and speakers to campus," said Alesia. the Center for Continuing Education. economic conditions in Africa, the Notre Dame is only one of many There will also be a book signing from Caribbean, and Europe. colleges where she will be speaking 6:00-6:15 p.m. in the Sorin Room, 
Shabazz is a lifetime member of the this year on her collegiate tour. The followed by a reception open to the NAACP, a member of the Delta Sigma SUB asked Shabazz to Notre Dame public. 

eight years. He has also lived among nomadic


Goulet 
tribesmen in the Sahara, worked as a factory laborer in the United

brings his 
States, France, and Spain, and has done field work in Guinea­

knowledge 
Bissau and Sri Lanka. He is presently teaching a course called

to the 
"Social Change Bi­ography," a study of the social impact made by

classroom 
Mahatma Gandhi and By MATT JEZIOR Malcolm X. Accent Writer Goulet has written nine books, including 
Denis Goulet has been The Cruel Choice. an teaching at Notre Dame interdisciplinary study since 1979. However, he exploring the conflict of is not just your regular values in development. professor. Professor Goulet 
Currently the O'Neil received his Master's Professor in Education degree in Philosophy and Justice, Goulet has from the Catholic traveled extensively, University of America in exploring the 1956. He received interdisciplinary another Master's in aspects of development Social Planning from the in various cultures and Paris-based Institut de societies. He served Recherche et de Forma­apprenticeships in tion en Vue du France, Spain, Algeria, Development (IRFED) in Lebanon and Brazil for 1960, and a doctorate in 
Political Science from the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil in 1963. 
According to Goulet, his most fulfilling project took place in in Sri Lanka, where he studied a large peasant economic movement called "Sarvodaya." 
Embracing over three­thousand villages and two-million people, it is an alternative devel­opmental strategy "based on human need, rather than just economic growth." The significance of this movement lies in the fact that it is centered around "participatory decision making of the peasants rather than an elite directorate from above," Goulet said. 


QualIs performs her ''Last Word" 

By l,.YNN BAUWENS 

Schyleen Qualls, one of the most sought-after performers on ~ollege campuses, will 
Scyleen Qualls will perform
bring her one-woman show to S~int Mary's College this 
her one-woman show tonight 
at 7 pJTt in Madaleva Hall. pt)rfornt a dramatization or ...,.-w-------------l African'-American poetry and Wednesday evening. She is to in both political and 
prose entitled "The Last 
issues. she has also ap-
W:' ,, 
;;:,; peared at ,the National 
' ' Convention ofWomen Voters 
:ast\:\'ord" include$ .and cofounded the Cleo 
'~ of Maya Angeloti< +Par:ke.i1 'RobinScon Dance 
on, June Jordan, Ensemble in Denver. 
J.;aqgstoq Hughes. ... the c 1 -. ..~
b oornu,o. ,,: 
sh9W,;,,has, . een ca11ed a the author of "One Flew "fjtliri;nlng performance of Over the Cuckoo's Nest," Ken African-American poetry that Kesey, speaks of Ms. Quall as celebtates cultural diversity." a "treasure. a flower. a 
Quall has performed trump, a hum-dinger of a throughout the United States word-slinger, a corker of a and in twenty six countries in talker. a heller of a Europe, The Caribbean, Latin storyteller, dawn's first light, America, the South Pacific and a downright delight." ami. in Australia. She was also a, featured performer Quall's performance in with the Rev. Jesse Jackson "The Last Word" is sponsored durlq.g his 1988 presidential by .the Saint Mary's Office of Cf!inpaign., Minority,.·International, and 
R~cently, the Colorado Non-Traditional Student Ufe, na~tve was honored by and the College's Student Harvard University for her Activity Board, Women's ·~outstanding contribution to Studies Program. and the American p~rforming arts Department of Communica­and·to race and intercultural tion, Dance and Theater. The relations." performance on Wednesday, 
During the 1991-92 March 24, will be held on the academic year Quail campus ·of Saint Mary's appeared on many college College. It will begin in campuses including Harvard carroll Auditorium of UtiiVersi.ty. University .of Madaleva Hall at 7 p.m. 
t~cut, NoQ:.e_,.Dam~ <.Admission is free. 
s1ty, and Wtllia.ms.t,; .,,,.,,", :s;;< .· 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, March 24, 1993 



Olin and Crews killed in tragic boating accident 
Indians trying to cope with loss of teammates Spring training continues in the 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. (AP) -boat appeared to have sus­that Steve and Tim are no 
wake of baseball's worst tragedy
he awful sound of silence tained little damage, just some longer with us. We don't need illed the Chain O'Lakes scrapes and scratches. There to bl:l reminded ofthat; So, (AP)-Baseball just didn't seem all asked all clubs to ny the nag at
allpark Tuesday in the wake was, however, a significant with that ~ mind, we are. going that important throughout spring half-staff.
of an unprecedented tragedy. amount of blood on the carpet­to start to work Q\lt training camps on Tuesday. New York Mets catcher Charlie
The death of two Cleveland ing and seats. especially on the Wednesday.~ 
The talk was not about rookies, O'Brien was scheduled to start
Indians pitchers and the injury passenger side. Blood was also "We know we have a sea$oli veterans and opening day. It was Tuesday's exhibition game against
of another in a boating splattered over the left side of to play," flart said. "We'll try t() about the boating accident that the Houston Astros at Port St.
accident late Monday left the the boat. covering part of the do that We'U try to operate irt killed Cleveland pitchers Steve Lucie, Fla. By the time he arrived,

team in quiet tears and gas cap. the way they would want us w 
Olin. 27. and Tim Crews, 31, on it hardly mattered. 
hocked sorrow. As word of the tragedy do ifthey were here." · Monday night. Indians starter Bob O'Brien and Crews were
Steve Olin was killed instantly filtered back, teammates Amemorial servi«Je for play~ Ojeda was injured in the crash on teammates in 1986 when the two
when a power boat rammed a began seeking one another. ers and families is scheduled a quiet lake near Winter Haven, played for the Milwaukee
dock in darkness. apparently Second baseman Carlos for Wednesl;iay night. Andi'J;J Fla. Brewers Class AA team in El 
at head level while traveling at Baerga said most of them had Thorntonl a. former Indians Dodgers right-handl~r Kevin Paso, Texas. 
a high rate of speed. Tim gathered at the Holiday Inn player who is an ordained w:IU~ Gross found it difficult to con­"It's kind of hard to believe,"
Crews, who officials said was near the ballpark by about 3 ister, will lead the services. > · centrate on his work. Last season. O'Brien said. "This is a guy you
driving the boat, died a few a.m. At their meeting, the play()*' Crews and Ojeda were his spent some time with and he is no
hours later after being "Everyone was crying," said discus~:~ed a fitting mf;lmoril:ll teammates in Los Angeles. longer there. The sad thing is
hospitalized with head and Baerga, the only player willing for Olin and Crews. They
,. 
The excellent control the right­people worry about making the
lung injuries. to talk with reporters. "l went talked of dedicating the season hander had displayed throughout team; they put more emphasis on
Bob Ojeda suffered cuts on over to the Holiday Inn to them. of black. armbands, o the spring deserted him Tuesday, sports itself instead of putting
is head and was in serious because that's where a lot of plaques in the bUllpen. 
particularly in the early innings. emphasis on their family and
condition after surgery. He is the guys are staying. When ''We're still trying to sort Gross, who had given up three friends. and sharing time with
expected to make a full something like that happens, through this," Ha:rt said. ''l earned runs in 17 innings going them. 'It's also a good reminder 
recovery. you have to be strong." think it's safe to say they will into the start, gave up two first­that people should spend time 
It was the first time two Shortly after dawn. Indians' be remembered.~ 
inning runs to Kansas City hefore they have with people they enjoy
maJor league baseball players manager Mike Hargrove and Olin. 27. came up in the he was able to settle down. and love. It's real disappointing
ere killed in the same John Hart, the club's general Cleveland organization in 1989 
"It was a bad day, not a good for me. It's real said." 
accident. Investigators found manager, gathered the and emerged· as their best re~ 
day for baseball,' said Gwss, who Tuesday's scheduled exhibition
alcohol on the boat, but said it ballplayers at the clubhouse. It liever last season, when be led 
gave up three runs in six innings. game between Cleveland and
would be several days before was a meeting filled with talk the team with 29 saves. He 
"It took a few beatings from the Baltimore was called off.
oxicology studies determined and tears. Some players spoke. was 8-5 with a 2.34 ERA. 
Hoyals before I said, 'I'm out "I would hope the players'
if the players had been Most were too stunned. Crews, 31, who came from here. I have to pitch.' families. and the Cleveland In­
drinking. "What happened is hard for Los Angeles as a free agent "I didn't hear about it until this dians. would know that we're
The 18-foot fiberglass Skeeter our team," Baerga said, so this year, was 0~3 with a 5.19 
morning. I got a phone call and I sorry and our sympathy goes out
bass boat had a !50-horse­softly many strained to hear. ERA in 49 games with the 
kept saying, 'No way, no way.' To to them." Orioles manager 
power motor and a top speed "Right now we are surprised Dodgers last season. 
come right out of the chute and Johnny Oates said. 
of 60 mph. After the accident, about what happened. The Ojeda, 35, also came to the 
try to pitch was a very difficult Milwaukee reliever Jpsse Orosco
police found it at near-full team is real down. We burt for Indians as a free agent this 
task." pitched with Crews while he was
throttle. their familes and kids." winter. Last season, he was 6-9 
Before spring-training games on with the DodgPrs. played with
Viewed by an Associated "We want to start the healing for Los Angeles with a 3.63 
Tuesday, a moment of silence was Olin while with Cleveland and
Press reporter at the Lake process as soon as we can," ERA. 
held in a memory of Olin and also was a teammate of Ojeda on
County Sheriff's garage in Hargrove said. "There are go· Ojeda was expected to be in 
Crews. Bud Selig. ehairman of the Mets.
Eustis, Fla., the gray and silver ing to be enough reminders the starting rotation. 
baseball's executive council, "It stunned me," Orosco said. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3·30 p m at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day class1fieds IS 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge 1s 2 cents per character per day. 1nclud1ng all spaces. 
NOTICES  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  FOR RENT  1986 HONDA CIVIC Low mileage, great car 631·7555 or 288·5794  ""SENIORs·· FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA  Got the March Madness Munchies? Sneak away at halftime to SUBWAY  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  Four bedroom furnished Oakhill  TONIGHT  
DEB'S TYPING SERVICE 1·656· 3038 PICK-UP/DELIVERY The NDCIBD will be sponsoring a spring forum. Business in the Context of Latin American Development, "Growth in the Making", Thursday. March 25 7:30pm at the Hesburgh Peace Center. Everyone is welcome to a hand  CALL 1·800-786-8373. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING · Earn $2,000+/monlh + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean. etc.) Holiday. Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1·206·634·0468 ext. C5584. Subleased apartment, 1 bdrm;  Condo open for summer rental. Rent negotiable. Call Arny or Doug @ 614·237-1370 for info. EX·ND STAFFER AND SPOUSE DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, REFERENCES. WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW DR., MULBERRY FL 33860 OR CALL (813)425·4404.  '87 HONDA CIVIC DX hatchbk call Sherri@ 277-4269 for more info PERSONAL Astrologer. Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrologtcal Services, Box 8038, South Bend. IN 46615, or call Pager #282·7042.  WED. 7-9 SENIOR BAR $1 cover ••SENIORS-GLASS OF '93"" Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential  6" cold cut combo· still $1 .49 6" tuna· only $ 1 .89 And always daily footlong specials SA 23 & IRONWOOD 277·7744 ................................ CREAM YOUR FAVORITE  

May 20·Aug. 20. Chris (708) 231·  SUMMER SESSION ·· 4 bdrms,  counseling at no cost to you. For  LYONITE IS COMING!I!!!!I  
""SENIORs••  6954  close to campus, safe  -The Sixth Sense- more information call Nancy at 232·  
neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  Have you you ever experienced de  5843.  Sun. March 28  
TONIGHT  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  utilities. Call Monica  ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing  Sign-ups in dining halls .......  
7·9  -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  232·2794.  you turn to? Do you belief in E.S.P?  ONLY $1  
canneries or $4000+/month on  Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  "proceeds go to charity"  
FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA  fishing boats. Free transportation! Roorn & Board! Over 8000  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  way of life for you? OR  make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  ...............................  
SENIOR BAR  openings. No experience  219-291·7153.  Do you think horoscopes and  city; summers by the beach; your  
necessary. Male or Female. For  fortune telling are bogus, perhaps  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  
$1 cover  employment program call 1·206·  3·5 person furnished house, SEC  even sacrilegious?  fireplace in winter. and by ocean  '"TOP QUOTES FROM THE""  
545·4155 ext. A5584  Syst, wash/dry, Beach V·Ball, Prime  We're interested in what you thinkll  waves in summer. Art. music, the  ••••••sT. PATS FORMAL•••••  
'"SENIORS-GLASS OF '93""  Locaton 233·9947.  Call the Accent department of The  best education, endless love. Call  Are they ever gonna stop?  
SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE  Observer  Franny or Stephen collect.  You wil DO IT and you will  
ENVIRONMENT • EARN $2500·  SUMMER SESSION · Visiting  and talk to Kenya at 631·4540.  (212)369·2597.  LOVE IT.  
National campaign positions toILOST & FOUND I 3500  Professors, grad students. 4·bdrm. home. Use of all utilities.  He's got ~ream in his boxers! Could I put this between your  
protect endangered species,  $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call  Snap-a-scam man, who the  ADOPTION: A loving happy home,  legs?  
Eddy & Edison. Call 232·9672.  promote comprehensive recycling,  Paul or Monica 232·2794.  hell do I give my 2$ to?  financial security, and educational  HEY! There's rolling going onll  
Mrs. Sniegowski  and clean the nation"s polluted  opportunities await your newborn.  We were sleeping.  
waterways. Available in Chicago, 22  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT  Drummer seeks guitar and  We can help with your expenses.  I don't think so Tim!  
states and D.C. Call Jamie toll free:  SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT  bass players for original band  Please call us collect: David and  If you were sleeping, then  
-·  Lost -Gold crucifix & chain before  1-800· 75-EARTH.  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF  NO  Call Dave 1305  Rosemery (919) 288·4490 Let's  they were dead!  
break. Sent. Value 634·1817 Sean.  IDEAL FOR 4·7 STUDENTS  help each other.  Would you cover his mouth  
SAILING SCHOOL DIRECTOR  2773097  with something?  
10wk season June-mid Aug,  Forum on: Business in the Context  You didn't swish it around in  
I lost an emerald earring stud  Salary $3000-3500 dep. on  Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2  of Latin American Development,  CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. ND  your mouthl  
on St. Patty's Day. If found please.  exper. CPA/Lifesaving cert..  baths. Located College Park  "Growth in the Making", exciting  Grad. Happily married for 4 years.  Did anybody hear panting?  
PLEASE get in touch  teach. exper. desired.  Condos. Corner of Bulla &  speakers, question and answer  Anxious to adopt newborn infant.  You get more action in my  
with me. Thanks.  Resume to:St. Joe Jr.  Ironwood. Must be responsible  time, and more...  Everyone is  Personal meeting welcome. Lawful  clothes and on my bed than  
Heather  x2988  Foundation, 1820 Niles.  tenat $595 per mo or Sale &65,900.  encouraged to come..Thursday.  and proper pregnancy related  Idol  
St. Joe, Ml49085 by Apr. 15  Send info to PO Box 4075 South  March 25, 7:30 pm Hesburgh Peace  expenses paid. Couple approved by  Open wider· I can't get it inl  
REWARD!!II Lost set of keys  '93 ; Instruct. pos. also: ?'s call  Bend IN 46634.  Center  Texas adoption authorities in  
with Ren & Stimpy keychain  Diann 284  advance of placement. State  Thanks Renee, Gina, Jamie, and  
before Spring Break.  Call  ·5262  Summer Lease· Live With NO  supervised adoption procedures.  Betsy for the great time!! I  
Ryan x1007.  Grads in Alexandria. VA.  STAND UP FOR  Call collect: David & Maureen  
LOOKING FOR A  Near Washington DC & Metro Call  CHOICE!  (512) 452-3416.  
lost: A patr of Polo glasses with  ROOMMATE IN UCLA AREA  (703) 461·2818  Link arms with us again  
black rims. Shows the Polo  FOR NEXT YEAR. CALL 271­ Tues,Wed & Fri  NO junior"s s1ster & brother-in-law  
emblem on the inside of each nose piece. Possibly left in South Dining  1263.  FOR SALE  TO PROVE WHAT WE FROM ND/SMC  Heading for EUROPE this summer? Jet there anytime for only $169 from  recently lost 2 infants to genetic disorders. They would like to adopt  
Hall or Morrissey Manor. Please  HELP MEl  REALLY  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  a child. Large family w/ lots of love.  
call at x3508 and ask for Josh.  1,400sft  STAND  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  If you can help or know one who  
I need a ride to DC for Easter!  I'll  COND0"$60k"2BED/2BATH  FOR  (Reported in Let's Gol & NY  can, please call x3314 or (517)531·  
WANTED.  help w/ gas & tolls. Call Kim • x3885  w/FPLC & DECK. PERFECT FOR STUDS/ALUMS. 272·5901  Call236·9919  Times,) AIRHITCH (r) 212·864-2000.  329 collect  


page 13
March 24, 1993 The Observer 
,, ........................................... ""',:"'",:'"", .. 0 
~ 
• 4 ~ \, : • : • : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~ ~ ..
----. -~ ··" '') 0 ..• ·..... : : ::.....·...... ...... . :'""::":": : 'IJJ· 
'---" i.~lJ v"' ! ! ! ! ! • • ! ! : : ! ! ! •e ! ! ~~~ ~ 
~ ~ ·.....· · .....· · .....·: ·. :...... :..... ..... .. . ...... 
NBA STATS  NBA STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  
Scoring G Jordan, Chi. 61 Wilklns, All. 54 K Malone, Utah 66 Mullin, G.S. 46 Barkley, Phoe. 62 Olajuwon, Hou. 6 5 Ewing, N.Y. 62 O'Neal, Ort. 63 Dumars, Del 63 Robinson, SA 63 Petrovic, N.J. 84 Manning, LAC 64 Joihnson, Char. 85 Hardaway, G.S. 58 Miller, Ind. 64 L.awis, Bos. 63 Anderson, Orl. 63 Daugherty, Clev. 56 Coleman, N.J. 60 Hawkins, Phil. 62 Field Goal Percentage Daugherty, Clev. Thorpe, Hou. O'Neal, Orl. Ceballos, Phoe. K. Malone, Utah Brlckowskl, Mil. Nance, Clev. Dumas, Phoe. Parish, Bos. Roberts, LAC Olajuwon, Hou. Carr, SA Rebounding G Rodman, Det. 45 O'Neal, Orl. 63 Olajuwon, Hou. 65 Willis, All. 63 Barkley, Phoe. 62 Mutombo, Den. 65 Seikaly, Mia. 55 Robinson, SA 63 Ewing, N.Y. 62 Coleman, N.J. 60 Aaeiata G Stockton, Utah 66 Hardaway, G.S. 58 Skiles, Or!. 61 Bogues, Char. 64 M. Jackson, LAC 6 5 Thomas, Del. 62 Williams, Minn. 59 Blaylock, All. 63 Anderson, N.J. 55 Murdock, Mil. 63 Price, Clev. 58  FG 769 573 643 474 590 659 612 598 558 521 550 598 593 451 446 518 469 414 430 420 FG 414 293 598 258 643 402 444 240 344 302 659 277 Off 259 270 227 263 210 262 200 176 154 197 No 808 625 573 580 580 544 507 516 449 498 447  FT 383 398 528 193 371 339 281 355 280 433 306 300 254 246 346 258 233 306 337 321 FGA 725 519 1010 458 1157 733 811 446 646 571 1246 524 Det 571 602 614 537 588 551 480 566 576 496 Avg 12.2 10.8 9.4 9.1 8.9 8.8 8.6 8.2 8.2 7.7 7.7  Pta 1986 1627 1816 1191 1584 1657 1506 1491 1482 1478 1478 1441 1458 1233 1359 1301 1280 1137 1213 1244 Pet .571 .565 .562 .559 .556 .548 .547 .538 .531 .529 . 529 .529 Tot 830 872 841 800 778 813 980 742 730 693  Avg 32.6 30.1 27.5 25.9 25.5 25.5 24.3 23.7 23.5 23.5 23.1 22.5 22.4 21.3 21.2 20.7 20.3 20.3 20.2 20.1 Avg 18.4 13.8 12.9 12.7 12.5 12.5 12.0 11.8 11.9 11.6  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon W L Pet GB New Vorl< 45 18 .714 New Jersey 39 27 .591 7112 Boston 37 28 .589 9 Orlando 31 33 .464 141/2 Miami 29 35 .453 16 1/2 Philadelphia 21 43 .328 24 1/2 Washington 19 45 .297 26 1/2 Central Dlvlalon Chicago 45 20 .692 Cleveland 42 24 ,636 31/2 Charlotte 35 31 .530 10 1/2 Atlanta 34 32 .515 11 1/2 Indiana 32 32 .500 121/2 Detroit 29 36 .446 18 Milwaukee 25 40 .365 20 4-6 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Dlvlalon W L Pet GB Houston 43 23 .652 San Antonio 40 24 .625 2 Utah 37 29 .561 6 Denver 26 40 .394 17 Minnesota 1 5 48 .238 26 1/2 Dallas 6 59 .092 35 1/2 Pacific Dlvlalon x-Phoenix 46 15 . 762 x-Seattle 46 20 .697 31/2 Portland 37 25 .597 101/2 LAL.akers 33 31 .516 15 1/2 LA Clippers 32 33 .492 17 Golden State 27 36 .415 22 Sacramento 20 44 .313 281/2 x-clinched playoff berth . Monday'• Game• Washington 97, New Jersey 92 Denver 107, Utah 93 Golden State 96, Detroit 91 Tuesday'• Gamea Late Games Not Included Orlando 1 03, Miami 89 Houston 1 1 1, Charlotte 103 Atlanta 125, Dallas 1 07 Cleveland 127, San Antonio 90 Philadelphia 98, Denver 80 Minnesota at Chicago, (n) Indiana at Utah, (n) New York at Phoenix, (n) Portland vs. Seattle at the Klngdome, (n) LA Clippers at Sacramento, (n) Wedneeday'a Gamea Miami at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Charlotte at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Chicago at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at Washington, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Milwaukee at LA Clippers, 1 0:30 p.m. Phoenix at LA Lakers, 1 0:30 p.m. Thuroday'a Gamea Houston at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Golden State at Denver, 9 p.m. New York at Utah, 9 p.m. lndlar.a at Seattle, 1 0 p.m. Portland at Sacramento, 1 0:30 p.m.  L10 9-1 8-2 8-2 4-6 7-3 2-8 3-7 7-3 5-5 5-5 8-2 7-3 5-5 L10 8-2 5-5 4-6 2-6 2-8 2-8 8-2 7-3 4-6 4-6 4-6 3-7 3-7  Streak Home Away Cont Won 9 30-4 15-14 31-12Lost , 23-10 16-17 23-17 Won 4 20-9 17-19 25-18 Won 2 20-13 11-20 18-21 Lost 1 21-12 8-23 15-24 Won 1 11-20 10-23 15-27 Won 1 13-18 8-27 12-30 Won 3 24-9 21-11 28-13 Won 1 28-6 14-18 25-15 Lost 1 17-14 18-17 20-21 Won 2 19-13 15-19 2Q-25 Won 3 22-11 10-21 21-24 Lost 1 20-12 9-24 22-19 Won 1 16-18 9-22 18-26 Streak Home Away Cont Won 1 25-9 18-14 26-14 Lost 2 26-6 14-18 23-14 Lost 3 20-11 17-18 21-19 Lost 1 21-11 5-29 16-24. Lost 3 9-24 8-24 10-28 Lost 2 5-28 1-31 1-39 Lost 1 28-4 20-11 32­9 Won 5 27-4 19-16 30-10 Lost 1 23-10 14-15 24-15 Lost 3 16-15 17-16 21-17 Won 1 19-13 13-20 20-19 Won 2 15-18 12-20 18-19 Lost 3 14-19 6-25 14-28 A list of major league basebell players whose careers were cut short by death In accidents: Tim Crewa, Cleveland Indiana, pitcher, March 23, 1893, tlahlng boat accident. Stave Olin, Cleveland Indiana, pitcher, March 22, 11193, tlahlng boat ..elden!. Thurman Munson, New Yorl< Yankees, catcher, Aug. 2, 1 979, plane crash. Danny Frisella, Milwaukee Brewers pitcher, Jan. 1, 1977, dune buggy accident. Mike Miley, California Angels, shortstop, Jan. 8, 1977, auto accident Bob Moose, Pittsburgh Pirates, pitcher, Oct. 9, 1976, auto accident. Roberto Clemente, Pittsburgh Pirates, outfielder, Dec. 31, 1972, plane crash. Ken Hubbs, Chicago Cubs, second baseman, Feb. 15, 1964, plane crash. Charlie Peete, St Louis Cardinals, outfielder, Nov. 27, 1958, plane a-ash. Tom Gastall, Baltimore Orioles, catcher, Sept. 20, 1956, plane crash. Norman Boeckel, Boston Braves third baseman, Feb. 15, 1924, auto accident. · Walter Lerlan, Philadelphia Phlllles, catcher, Oct. 22, 1929, auto accident. Marvin Goodwin, Cincinnati Reds, pitcher, Oct. 18, 1 925, plane crash. Ray Chapman, Cleveland Indians, shortstop, Aug. 16, 1920, killed by pitched ball.  BASEBALL American League DETROIT TIGERs--sent John DeSilva, pitcher; John Cangelosi, outfielder; and Marty Peavy, catcher; to their minor~eague camp for reassignment. National League MONTREAL EXPOS-Signed Jack Clark, first baseman, to a mlnor~eague contract Sent Sergio Valdez, pitcher, to their mlnor~eagua camp for reassignment. Claimed Ted Wood, outfielder, off waivers from the San Francisco Giants. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE5-0ptloned Bred Brink and Steve Parris, pitchers, to Scranton­Wilkes Barre of the International L.aague. BASKETBALL National B..ketball A..oclatlon NBA-Fined Keith Askins, Miami Heat guard-forwrd, $3,500 for a flagrant foul In a game on March 18. GOLDEN STATE WARRIOR5-Walved Alton Uster, center. PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZER5-Piacad Kevin Duclkworth, canter, on lha Injured list. Activated Reggie Smith, forward, from the Injured list. Continental Basketball Aaaoclatlon LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Roosevelt Wallace, forward. ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Placed Andre Spencer, forward, on the NBA reserve list FOOTBALL National Football League BUFFALO BILLS-Signed Mickey Washington, cornerback. DETROIT LIONS-Signed Rodney Holman, tight end. GREEN BAY PACKER5-Signed Harry Galbreath, guard. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Agreed to terms with Bill Romanowski, linebecker. HOCKEY National Hockey League ANAHEIM MIGHTY DUCKS-Named Jack Ferreira general manager. BOSTON BRUINS-Agreed to terms with Don Sweeney, defenseman, on a three-year contrect. SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Wade Flaherty, goaltender, from Kansas City of the International Hockey League. LACROSSE Major Indoor Lacroaaa League PHILADELPHIA WINGS-Announced the retirement of Dave Evans, coach, at the end of this season. COLLEGE HOCKEY EAST-Announced Massachusetts will join the conference in 1994-95. KEAN-Announced the resignation of Mike Gatley, interim men's basketball coach. SUNY-BUFFALO-Announced the resignation of Dan Bazzani, men's basketball coach. TEXAS A&M-Promoted Bob Davie, defensive coordinator, to assistant head coach and announced he would retain his duties as defensive coordinator.  

Tomorrow Tonight! 6:30p.m. 




Medjugorje 
March 25th Queen of Peace Mass 
Sacred Heart Basilica 
Come & receive Our Lady's March 25th message! 
Confessions begin at 6:00 p.m., Mass at 6:30 p.m. Consecrate yourself to 
Our Lady on this Feast of the Annunciation! Join your ''Yes'' to hers! 
~-------:--.. ~ .. -~._ __._....·-.~---. --------~ 
. '.'. . . . '. . . . . . '.. . . ' . 

AND STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS 


ar~ Today! 
Off Campus Co-President Voting is at the LaFortune Information Desk from 9am -7pm 
All current oH·campus students and students living off-campus next year can vote 
Student Senate Voting is in each dorm from 11am -1pm and 5pm -7pm 
Wednesday, March 24, 1993 The Observer page 15 
SMC softball tri-captains are more than teammates 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Courage, strength, leadership, motivation. These are just a few words associated with the term captain. They are also just a few of the many characteristics possessed by Saint Mary's softball tri-captains Stacy Bo­gataj, Sara Miller and Jane Murphy. 
Because the Belles start up to five freshmen, the experience provided by the three juniors is vital. 
Belles coach Don Cromer de­scribes softball as a game of knowing where to be. Realizing this, it is easy to see that the 
of the three contribute 
their leadership. 
Murphy is beginning her third year at catcher for the Belles. This position demands 
ponsibility, as she is respon­
ble for warming up both the pitchers and the other catchers, as well as calling pitches and keeping the infield informed. 

Miller helps Murphy by taking charge of the infield from first base. She is responsible for making sure that everyone is aware of the situation and knows where to be. 
Cromer feels that Sara's leadership abilities at the posi­tion surface through her talkative and extremely com­petitive attitude. 
At centerfield, Bogataj has the responsibility of keeping the outfield aware. "Stacy always knows what's going on," Cromer said. "She's quick in the field and can call off the other fielders when necessary." 
The strength and abilities of each player also make them assets to the team. Last year, Miller led the team in hitting with a .365 average, while maintaining a .928 fielding percentage. She returns to the line-up this season batting clean-up. 
Also strong at the plate, Bo-
St. Hours: To;es-Thurs 11·9 p.m. Fr;,Sat ll-10 p.m. Sunday 12:30-7 p.m. 
ew, Healthy Korean Menu! 
Buffet: Tues-Fri 11:30-2 p.m. $4.95 all you can eat. Sunday for Dinner Buffet: 12:30-7 p.m. All you can eat. Includes: braised hot pork, chob sweet and sour pork, soups, appetizers, salads, fruits and desserts. All for only $8.50. 
gataj was the second leading hitter last season with a .333 average, while leading the team in RBis. She was the recipient of last years coach's award for consistent play. 
Murphy, who started every game last year provides a strength behind the plate that gives the young pitchers a nec­essary confidence on the mound. She is also joining the line-up this season as a much improved hitter. 
Determination is a word that describes Miller perfectly. Although she had played high school level ball since eighth grade in Dubuque, Iowa, she did not plan to play softball at Saint Mary's. It was the en­couragement of a friend that made her do so, and she has not looked back. 
Although she played as a freshman, she was not a starter. Through her effort and determination, she earned a starting position last season and is returning to the same spot this season. 
Miller pointed out that she continued working both for the love of the sport and her belief that the team will make it into the national tournament. 
"We have more raw talent this year than we've had in a few years," she said. "We really mixed together well as a team and worked a lot of the kinks out in Florida. I think that we have a good shot this year." 
While Miller's determination establishes her as a leader, it is Bogataj's courage that does the same for her. 
Bogataj began playing base­ball at seven years old and switched to softball at thirteen. At Allen Park High School in Allen Park, Michigan, she was a member of the tennis, cheer­leading, track and softball teams. For her participation in track and softball she received all-state honors. 
What makes this story coura-
DRUGS ARE REALLY BAD Don't use them because you might die 

The Academic Honor Code 
We Need Your Help! 
e Honor Code at Notre Dame works for the students, and the Honor Code ommittee needs your help to make it better suit our needs next year. If you are terested in helping in any of the following areas next year, please fill out the llowing application. 
• 
Liaison Between Faculty and Students 

• 
Freshman Orientation Weekend 

• 
Transfer Student Orientation 

• 
Dorm Representative 

•College 
Representative 


University of Notre Dame Honor Code Committee 
student application 
Section 1. Please return your completed application to the new chairpersons: 
mi Benson  418 Knott Hall x4 7 04  
Kevin Schroeder  811 Grace Hall x 1 750  
Section 2.  
arne:  

Birthplace:_________ 
Dorm: College:_________ Class: 
Section 3. 
Age:_____ 
Sex:----------­Phone: Major:___ 
Why do you want to be on the Honor Code Committee; what do you feel you veto offer it? (please attach a typed sheet, no more than the front of one page} 
geous is the fact that all of this was done with an incredible knee injury obtained during tennis her freshman year of high school. 
Stacy underwent recon­structive surgery after her senior year of high school and again after her freshman year at Saint Mary's. 
Unfortunately, these surgeries· did not prove to be enough, as she will undergo surgery again in May for a torn tendon and possible torn ligament. 
Motivation is a very important quality in catchers, and one that is not foreign to Murphy, who has been catching for the Belles since her freshman year. 
She brings to Saint Mary's the experience she received playing for Catholic Central High School in Grand Rapids, Michigan, where she caught for two years and served as captain. 
Murphy is the kind of player that is always enthusiastic and in turn instills this enthusiasm on the other players. 
Excitement is the factor that motivates Murphy and in turn helps her to motivate others. 
"I hate to lose," she said. "I like to see everyone exciting and playing together. It seems like everyone plays better when we're intense." 
According to Cromer, Murphy is not a practice player, but in a game situation, "she is very competitive and leadership flows out of her." 
By covering all of the neces­sary leadership roles, the three are able to compliment each other. While Jane is described as the motivator, Sara is the competitive one and Stacy is the "emotional rock" of the team. 
Cromer believes that the 
leadership they provide has 
proven essential to this point in 
the season. 
"In them, the freshmen see 
leadership," he stated. "They 
have become more competitive 
as well as more close knit. They 
are always complimenting each 
other and talking. This is the 
most exciting year I've had thus 
far at Saint Mary's." 
Together, the three have be­
come more than teammates. 
"After three years together, we 
care about each other as peo­
ple, not just players." Bogataj 
said. 
This togetherness in leader­
ship will prove to be the build­
ing block on which the Belles 
begin their journey to the na­
tional tournament. 
LATHER RINSE 
REPEAT 
GROUP ­FUNDRAISER 
YOUR ENERGY OUR METHOD YOUR PROFIT OUR SUPPLIES YOUR GROUP 
Earn up to S1,500 Call Today 
800·592·2121 
Ext. 314 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, March 24, 1 



Irish 
continued from page 20 
The defense appears to be the least of Holtz worries, and should play second-fiddle to the offense in terms of attention this spring. Nevertheless, Holtz still finds a dark cloud on the one area in which the Irish ap­pear stable. 
"I don't think there is any doubt that defense has to be the strong part of our football team," he said. "I'd feel better about it if we hadn't lost (Tom) Carter, because replacing a cornerback of his caliber isn't easy to do. It may impair our ability to play man coverage." 
Holtz and his staff will use the spring drills to evaluate a num­ber of younger players. 
"I am anxious to see some of our younger players on de­fense," said Holtz. "Never have we had so many young lineman we need to look at, and many of them did not play at all last year." 
In addition to the young play­ers, junior Wille Clark and sophomore Huntley Bakich will return to the team after sitting out last year. Clark, a starter at safety his sophomore year, was tried at running back during spring practice last year. He figures to once again be given an opportunity to carry the ball in Holtz's multi-back attack. The talented Bakich will be looked at as a defensive end. 

The task facing the Notre Dame coaching staff will be aided by a new NCAA ruling which allows all fifteen prac­tices to be full contact. In the past only ten practices could be in full gear. Although Holtz indicated that he would not have live hitting all fifteen days he hinted that he would keep the players in pads to help pre­vent injuries. 
Notre Dame will practice Fri­day and Saturday this week in addition to today's opening practice. Although the schedule is tentative, the Irish will prac­tice an average of three times a week before the April 24 Blue/Gold Game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
1-'noto counesy ot Notre uame ::;pons lnTormat1on Irish coach Lou Holtz is looking for answers in spring practice. 
who plays the best at that time."

Tennis 
In addition to the Spartans' talent, the fact that the Irish
continued from page 20 
have to go back to playing in­
Schmidt is expecting a 
doors after playing outside on marathon match. 
the spring break and Blue-Gray"He's a very similar player to trips could also cause problems. 
me, he's a consistent baseliner 
"The reason we were suc­
who depends a lot on his foot cessful last weekend was be­
speed," said Schmidt, who 
cause we were able to adjust to along with Coleman went unde­
playing outdoors," noted 
feated at the Blue-Gray Classic. 
Schmidt, "Now we have to ad­"It should be a pretty long bat­just back to the indoor atmo­tle. It will probably depend on sphere." 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. 
Contact Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540 for more information. 
Sophomores and Freshmen 

PHILOSOPHY: 
)~1 
Meet Your Majors 
Thursday, March 25 6:00-7:00 p.m. Room 217 O'Shag 

Refreshments Served 
For further information contact Prof. David O'Conn~~ Room 337 O'Shag., 1-7534 
ru11~KnA. Beginners are welcome. "'""""~"'· Equestrian Club is having a meeting for all former and present members to discuss lf you have any questions, call Megan at 634-2784 or Julie at 634-4024. lf you're in showing at Purdue, call Katie at 284-5520. 6010k!ltor·e Basketball is looking for a joke team to play against campus celebrities in the Hall on March 28.·Contact Andy at 634·1223 if you are interested. B01Dks.tor·e Basketball captains' meeting will be March 25 at 7 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. short and schedules will be passed out. All should attend. 
NOTRE DAME CLASS OF 1994 
Applications are now available for next year's Senior Advisory Council at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor of LaFortune) 
Positions include: Senior Month Chairperson Fundraising Commissioner Service Commissioner ( 2) 
Social Commissioner (2) Publicity Commissioner • LaFayette Square Representative •Castle Point Representative 
•Campus 
View Representative 

•Turtle 
Creek Representative 


•Oak Hill Representative Applications are due March 31, 1993 
• All off-campus representatives must be living at that location next year. 
ALUMNI
Ill
.SENIOR 







Don't miss Friday Lunch 
Great Lenten Specials 12-2 

must be 21 
-
Wednesday, March 24, 1993 The Observer page 17 

"When we asked them to · with the club's older rowers. portunity to race. Whether you Murphy. "We wanted to bring coach, we knew that they had Also meeting with conflict was race in the fastest boat is up to up the fact that there are a lot
Crew 
never coached before. They Webb and Maher's way of you. The only attitude we have of good rowers who quit for would learn and we would testing rowers, way of assigning is that we don't row recre­reasons that aren't too
continued from page 20 
teach them... They weren't giv­rowers to boats and way of ationally, we row competi­clear... Our basic idea was that 
"I think Bill and Tim were ing us as much coaching as we assigning rowers to seats. tively," said the incoming the team could be a lot better looking for leadership positions needed. We tried to tell them The coaches felt their changes president. with just a change in tone and off the water as well. Dave was respectfully, but they didn't take and their methods were in the "There were differences of an acknowledgement of the not going to relinquish constructive criticism well. best interests of the team. opinion between what coaches problem."
anything...The ultimate 
They took it as a sign of a lack wanted and what the team Murphy and Young allege that authority will always remain in of respect. "There is no maturity to be wanted. (In the end) We were large numbers of novice rowers 
the students." 
"They were very concerned found in any attempt by any·" keeping them because we didn't have dropped out of in­
Webb and Maher were se­with having our respect. ..It one-coach, captain, officer or have anyone to fill the spot," volvement with the club. lected as volunteer coaches at developed into a personality oarsman, to load a boat of said Reeder. Reeder said that was "not the beginning of the summer. conflict," said Staudmeister. "In championship class oarsmen Underlying the problem with true at all" and countered that Webb rowed in his undergrad­the end, we didn't treat them into a club race in an attempt to the coaches is a conflict within "the men's varsity team is uate years at Notre Dame well, but we gave them more score a cheap medal. The ma­the team over how it should be larger then last semester" (80(1985-1988) and also in his than a fair chance last ture oarsman rows his event, run. members overall, 20 varsitythird year of law school (1989). semester." allows others to row their The student faction on the rowers}.
Maher has previous rowing ex­
events, and makes himself team siding with the coaches perience, but not at Notre When Webb rowed in law available to row other events as includes Steve Murphy, Chuck Murphy and Young, who have Dame. school, he rowed with several of logistics or the dynamic of the Young and others. Murphy and since quit the team, disagreed
Neither had previous the seniors on the team in­team requires," said the pair in Young moved to change what with the way the team was coaching experience. cluding team captain Christian their letter. they also saw as a "crisis of atti­being run saying that rowing is 
Staudmeister cited the lack of Dunbar causing a "peer prob­Staudmeister agrees that ev­tude" on the team through the no longer fun. coaching experience and a lem." eryone should be able to race, club government. "In the past four years, it's more hands-off coaching style The coaches instituted a but sees performance as the key gone from a lot of fun and posi­as the precipitator of the prob­change in the team's rowing to seat and boat assignments. "Steve and I decided, after a tives to more militaristic and lems. style which met with conflict "Everyone will have th~p-'"lot of friends had quit, that we fragmented.. .I feel pretty sad 
weren't getting that much out of about the whole thing. Crew it. Crew's a big commitment and has such potential at Notre we didn't want to just quit," Dame considering it was a var­said Young. "Some said that sity sport for a while... I just they would rejoin if changes want it to be a positive activity," were made." said Young. 
Murphy and Young decided to Webb remembers his rowing run for club president and vice­at Notre Dame as fun. "When I president respectively. They was rowing, we had a success­allege that Reeder did not want ful program ·because most of to hold the elections and that the people on the team really
to the 746 students who took the '"Safe Spring Break'" pledge and 
they had to go through the Club liked being on the team. The 
to all the other students who made the conscious decision to not Coordination Council to get the reason we did well was that the -elections held by the March 1 team was a fun group and able
drink and drive. 
deadline. to attract a large number of Reeder said that the club people." We would also like to thank the following sponsors for their usually holds its elections after The status of the men's var­the spring break trip and sity and the entire crew team
donations for the '"Safe Spring Break" campaign. 
moved them up to ac­will most likely not be affected commodate the CCC. Staud­by the current conflicts within meister won the election. the team. Rich O'Leary and The
The Computer Store Notre Dame Bookstore 
"We wanted to provide an av­Office of RecSports were unable
LaFortune Hair Stylists The Country Harvester 
enue of change. If they didn't to be reached to comment on
The Copy Shop Leprechaun Pizza Co. want it, well that's okay," said the situation. 

LaFortune Information Desk 
Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol & Drug Education The BACCHUS Peer Education Network 
Gain va ua e wor experience ing a position with the Student Business Board Help run an organization with sales of nearly $100,000 per year! 
The Business Board is responsible for the operations of the Three Student Run Business: 
Irish Gardens Adworks Notre Dame Video 
Applications for General Manager (Seniors to be) will be due on Friday, March 26. Applications for Assistant General Manager (Juniors to be) will be due on Friday, April2. All applications can be picked up in the Student Government office on the 2nd floor in LaFortune. Interviews will follow. Any ?'s, lease call Matt Cenedella at 631,3504. 
Open Forum for Graduate Women 
Sponsored by the Graduate School 
Wednesday, March 24 and Thursday, March 25 Both sessions to be held between 
4:30 and 6 p.m. at FOG Community Center 
Are you a government, economics or philosophy major? Are you interested in pursuing some inter-disciplinary questions?  
Ifso, maybe PPE is for you! Philosophy, Politics and  
Economics Concentration  - 
-Information meeting­ 
Thursday, March 25 218 O'Shaughnessy 7:00.,8:00  
or see Professor]ohn Roos 424 Decio  1  
ext. 7556  1  

------~--~------------~ 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, March 24, 1993 
VALDISERRI HONORED 
Hoger Valdiserri, Notre Dame's associate athletic direc­tor, is the recipient of the 1993 Katha Quinn Award from the 
U.S. Basketball Writers Associ­ation. The presentation will be made at this year's Final Four in New Orleans. 
• The award is given annually in memory of Katha Quinn, a member of the St. John's ath­letic department who died of cancer. 
Valdiserri is currently the chair of the NCAA Com­munications Committee and for the past three years has been a staff member of the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. 
MCC HONORS DANAPILIS 
Notre Dame senior outfielder Eric Danapilis was named Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence player of the week for the week ending March 21. 
Danapilis hit .533 (8-15) last week in a four game series with Kentucky and collected two doubles, a home run and eight HBis. 
ZURCHER STILL EMOTIONAL LEADER 
It's a busy time for the men's tennis team, as they head into the homestretch of a schedule that is arguably the nation's toughest. Leading the Irish's resurgence as of late has been the five members of the senior class, who want to end their career on a good note and are playing that way. 
The only member of the se­nior class who is not out win­ning matches is Andy Zurcher, who suffered a ruptured ten­don in his wrist during a tour­nament over Christmas break. Zurcher, who played two-sin­gles and two-doubles on last year's runner-up to the na­tional championship, then reinjured the wrist while train­ing a couple of weeks ago. Though he was looking for­ward to coming back this past weekend, he has endured surgery and is now faeing an­other eight months of rehabili­tation before 100% recovery should be expected. 
"I don't know what he's going through since I have never experienced anything like that," said ex-doubles partner Will Forsyth. "But I know he has not missed coming to a match and is still an emotional leader for our team." 
WOMEN'S TENNIS RETURNS TO TOP 25 
The women's tennis team climbed back into the Top 25 at No. 23 this week after after wins over 19th-ranked Kansas and Illinois. The Irish didn't 
lose a match in last week's wins over Drake, Michigan and Kansas State. 
Freshman Wendy Crabtree is ranked 73rd in the nation, and the doubles team of Crabtree and classmate llolyn Lord hold down the No. 33 spot. 
-

SOFTBALL RESCHEDULES 
Today's home opener for the Notre Dame softball team has been postponed until April 8 at 3 p.m. The Bowling Green game, postponed on March 17, has been rescheduled for April 17 at Bowling Green. 
CHICAGO (AP) -Michael Jor­ lanta until the fourth quarter,  
dan scored 19 of his 34 points  when the Hawks took control  
in the second quarter Tuesday  and rolled to a 125-107 victory  
night, lifting the Chicago Bulls  behind a 28-point effort by  
to a 107-100 victory over the  Wilkins.  
Minnesota Timberwolves.  "I said if we can tie the game  
The Bulls, winners of four  and get a small lead, we'll put it  
straight games and six of eight,  away," said Wilkins, who put  
never trailed in handing the  the Hawks in front to stay on a  
Wolves their fourth consecutive  3-point basket that broke a 73­ 
loss. Minnesota is winless in  73 tie with 6:27 remaining in  
eight games against Chicago  the third quarter. "To say this  
since entering the league in  was an ugly game is an under­ 
1989.  statement."  
Minnesota was led by Person  
with 31 points, Michael  
Williams with 23 and Christian  
Laettner with 21. Scottie Pippen  
scored 20 points and Will  
Perdue 14 for Chicago .  
The closest the Timberwolves  
got in the fourth quarter was  
105-100 on Person's 3-pointer  
with 32 seconds left.  


Jordan sparks Bulls past Wolves, 107-100 




Today 
Wednesday, March 24, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




"Dang! ... Stiff neck!" 

THE
ai·ToMORROW 
:::1 BAND-0-RAMA CLIFF()~~
....1 BENEFIT FOR CENTER 


FOR THE ERICKSON 
E 
HOMELES 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
all 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
fii\SS WORtl\'f/OoD, l ~RoTEST T\W5 "C GRI\D£! nu<rs sA'(II-IG I oKL'( 
\)\1) AI'\ "A'lt._Ril~Gt." j0\5 .' 
I 

CROSSWORD 
Cross-w-ord 
ACROSS 30 Mo. pros 32 Where push 
1 Skillful sometimesperformer 
a Kitchen appliance 15 Chanticleer 16Approve 17 Treasure State  comes to shove 33 Tomba's footwear 34 "I turn my back to the--": Blake  52 Kind of fish or bone 54 Quayle's successor 56 "Gift of the Magi" item  
18 Reconcile  38 Periscope part  59 Wardrobe  
differences  39 "-Foolish  61 Verse form  
19 Gospel singer Grant  Things ..." 40 Nev. city  63 "Mommie -": Crawford  6:-+--+---ll-­ 
20 Support for a crow's-nest 22 Punched cows 23 Can, to a Londoner  41 Kasparov conquest 42 Parking-lot posting 43Mug  64 Thinks up 65 Spanish gentlemen 66 Hay-spreading machines  
24 Press  44 Puppeteer  
26 Rook or fish ender  Lewis 46 Acropolis site  DOWN  
27 Out-and-out  47 Antibes, for one  1 "Aeneid" starter  
2 Suitable scope  
3 Broadway  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE award 4Adherent s Marathoner's 
requirement 6 Lessee 7 Epochs a Pro follower casinos 9Small-town 28 Tract 
description 29 Carnival H:::+.::~ 10 Certain number structure or quantity 31 Boil ~=-+'='+-'--1..0.1 11 Evian evening 33 Partner's take 
Eilililiillt7+.::-~~,.t.~ 12 Exchange 35 Shielded, at sea 13 Lab compound 36 Fleece 14 Very slim 37 Loads 21 Meter maid's 39 Cross or 
activity crossing 23 Past and perfect 43 Prepared for the 53 Picador's target 25 Poker ploy worst 55 Sad news item 27 Cheat, at 45 More devout 56 Lot 
I GO\ 75'/. 0\' 11-\E AI'\'3WER'3 CORR'C:.C.\, r-.WJ 11'-1 \0\)f\'I'S SOCIIT'\ I \XJII'IG '30\-l\E\\ii~G lS'/. R\GI-\T \'S 0\l\'STM-IIlll--\G' 
Edited by Eugene T. Maieska 
so P izze ria owner's rr-.,..-.....,..---,;---,,....-,.--,.;-­
need 51 Quilting party 
I Wo\'\1 STf\1-1\) \=OR n\\'s 1\RTI~\CIAl 'STII-1--1\)1\RD <0~ I'ERI=bRM/>.N.CE . 1 I DEMf\1'-\\) tit-\ "~-\=oR T\il":> \(It--\\) OF 
46 Irritate 47 Oodles 48 Use a blender 49 Hinduism's 
supreme universal self 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
BILL WATIERSON 
1 T\.\11'-\K 1\S R.'Ct>.,I..L'( GRo<:;<; \-\OW 51-1£. QR\1-\\::.<; 1'-o\Afl..I..DX STRi>IIGI-\T \'1<..\)M 1\\E 130\TlE. 
I 
No. 0210 
57 Baltic Sea feeder sa A Truman 60 French connections 62 Stripling 
4 p.m. Presentation, "Juniors,,Ofientatio1l on Services of Career and Placement Services Office and Preparation for JobSeiirch,"lPaulReynolds, associate director of Career and Placement Seffices. Notre Pame Room,. LaFortune Student C~riter. ..·· ·· .· J.tut•i1ti'' ;®+ tn · 5tq 1 f>•m, AU.tpjJntic M~ld.can dinner at the Center for Soclal Conc~tns; lU~e. mole, b(ll'ritos. salad and dessert prepared by members ofthf South Bend CJJmmunity. A $3.50 donatio1l benefits El Buen Veeino; a noH'or~proflt program forJow:iJ:tcome !Jisp famil~E)Sr Questions, call Paul at 
·· 239~6309 or Lara. at . . 813, · · · , f·' 
7:30 p~m. "l'lte .$tatus of Blaeks.,,and Women in Today's Soclety,.. )letty S'habazz. Tickets $3 for Notre Dame and Saipt Mary"s students. faculty and staff, $5 for general admission. Doors open at 7 p.m. SpollSored by the Student 
· 

-


-------~ ~­





Sports 
page 20 
Wednesday, March 24, 1993 
Questions abound as spring practice begins 
.. 
-

By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz can complain about his ofTense, his defense, and the special teams, but one think we won't be hearing from Notre Dame's football coach is a word about the weather. The forecast is for sunny skies and 60 degree temperatures, a perfect day for the start of spring football. 
The fortunate weather pro­vides a positive start to a spring slate which may be Holtz's most difficult since he began coaching at Notre Dame in 1986. Never has he faced so many questions surrounding a team. 
"The '93 season is going to be a very difficult challenge for us," said Holtz. "We lose 82 percent of our ofTense from last year-90 percent of our passing and 72 percent of our rushing. 
"There's no way you can look at this team with all its losses and say this team will be as good as the Notre _Dame teams of the last few years. That would be a little bit unrealistic, although our goals and expecta­tions are the same as they've always been, we're not going to lower them." 
Holtz's "glass is half empty" philosophy may be right on target this year. Graduation and early departures for the NFL have left the Irish less than "half empty" on offense, and slim in certain areas on defense. Only four starters re­turn on offense, seven will be back on defense. 
The quarterback position has gotten the most publicity in the past months and rightly so. Paul Failla and Kevin McDougal will have the arduous task of replacing Rick Mirer, the most prolific passer in Notre Dame history. Neither came to the Irish with sterling credentials but both have shown in spurts, their ability to lead the offense. 
"We will head into the fall with either Paul Failla or Kevin McDougal as our number-one 
Crewtroversy continues 

Crew coaches resign, cite .. crisis of attitude .. 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Bill Webb and Tim Maher resigned as volunteer coaches of the men's varsity crew team on March 11 ending a year of miscommunication and misunderstanding on the rowing squad. 
Webb and Maher cited a "crisis of attitude which permeates the Men's Varsity team" in their eight-page letter of resignation. 
The attitude was defined in their letter as an individualistic rather than a winning attitude. "While many hierarchies include the individual, there are no individuals on a winning crew ... As mentioned, we had hoped to meet with, or at least instill, a winning attitude in each of you ... However, very few members of this team have exhibited a willingness to subject themselves to the process of acquiring this attitude." 
The coaches closed their statement expressing their continuing interest in the crew teams. "Our hope is that those of you who will still be around in years to come will take advantage of our experience and willingness to help the team." 
The resignation of Webb and Maher, both lawyers in South Bend, brought to a close a year of poor performances and brought to light a factionalization within the troubled team. 
There appears to be three groups within the men's varsity team including the club's present leadership, rowers indifferent to the situation and rowers, like the coaches, who were unhappy with the situation on the team. 
Excluding the neutral rowers, these groups all have their own version of what happened to the crew team this year. The main problem appears to be the role of the coaches. 
Dave Reeder, this year's club president, explained his position in the matter. 
"It's a matter of our club having its objective view of what it needs from its coaches. In this situation, the coaches thought they had more control over this club," said Reeder. "It's a mis­interpretation by really inexperienced coaches." 
Incoming president Doug Staudmeister added, 
see CREW/ page 17 
JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 
lubs need to outline coaching expectations 
After spending a Saturday listening to and coaches explaining their position recent men's var§ity crew team problems, 
I a little advice for the new leadership of the team as well as other club sports. 
Since the coaching positions of most club at Notre Dame are volunteer and go to gradu students or other members of the community, students wield a significant amount of powe over the c.oaches. 
In light of this, it is imperative that the outline and define what they expect from coaches from the start. If the men's varsity crew team had done this, the team might not be as splintered as it is now. 
Coaches Bill Webb and Tim Maher said in their letter, "When we were asked to coach, we made a few fateful assumptions. The first was that you were actually seeking coaches. We have since learned that you really want stylistic critics who will double as lifeguards in the coach's launch, and nothing more." 
From what I have heard from different rowers including the club's leadership, this statement is true. I am not in a position to argue whether this position is the right one. That is for the members of the club to decide. 
Rather, I question why this wasn't common knowledge. If this is what the men's varsity crew team wanted from their coaches, why didn't Webb and Maher know this when they started? 
If the coaches had known that this is what was expected of them from the start, some of the conflicts which arose between some of the students and the coaches might have been avoided. Webb and Maher did what they thought they were supposed to do. 
All clubs should, after selecting their coach(es), provide those coach(es) with a clear idea of what they will be expected to do. It is imperative that their role is made clear to them. 
quarterback," said Holtz. "Kevin begins with a little bit of an edge in terms of experience, but don't underestimate Paul Failla. lie has some intangibles and he's going to be with us full time in addition to playing baseball. Both of them will get outstanding opportunities and a lot of reps during the spring." 
The loss of Heggie Brooks to graduation and Jerome Bettis to the wealth of the NFL leaves Notre Dame barren at running back. Lee Becton appears to be the likely candidate to replace Brooks, while Dean Lytle and Hay Zellars battle for the full­back spot. 
"We don't have great num­bers at the running back spots. We kidded about going to a one­back offense, but I don't know if we have enough players to do it," said Notre Dame's coach. "Lee Becton and Dean Lytle and Ray Zellars have some experience, but they haven't played full-time roles yet." 
see IRISH/ page 16 
The Observer/Jake . or will Kevin McDougal secure the top spot? 
Michigan State next test for streaking men's tennis 
The Observer/Jake Senior Will Forsyth will lead the Irish against Michigan State tonight. 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
Is there anything the Notre Dame men's tennis team can do for an encore after capturing last weekend's Blue Gray National Classic, which is widely accepted as the most prestigious tournament in the nation next to the NCAA Cham­pionships? 
Probably not, but the Irish will travel to East Lansing, Mi., today to battle Michigan State, in a match that will demand a team focused on the task at hand. 
Irish head coach Bob Bayliss says that will not be a problem. Even after sueh a big victory, the Ir:ish know they cannot af­ford to be complacent when an NCAA bid relies on their domi­nance of top Midwest squads the rest of the way. 
"They pose a very serious problem to us," said Bayliss of the Spartans, "We've learned that we're everyone's showcase match. They're marketing de­partment has already told us that the match will be sold out. 
In addition to the fact that Notre Dame, because of their dominance of Midwest tennis the last two years, is the team everyone is gunning for. the Spartans boast a very deep and talented lineup that should challenge in the singles matches. 
"They might actually be deeper than we are," noted Bayliss. "They are very good in the upper to middle parts of their lineup," 
The Spartans' top player, freshman Mashiska Washing­ton, plays at two-singles and is ranked among the top 50 play­ers in the nation. If the name sounds familiar, Washington is the brother of U.S. tennis star Malavai Washington. 
Since the Irish's two-singles player, Chuck Coleman, will have to sit this mateh out due to the fact he played an extra match at the National Clay Court Championships, fellow senior Mark Schmidt will likely match up with Washington at the two spot. 
Schmidt lost to Washington earlier this year in the finals of the Tom Fallon Invitational, so 
see TENNIS/page 16 
m~J?SDliDrn SPORTS 
' 
BASEBALL 
NBA ROUNDUP
SMC SOFTBALL 
The Cleveland Indians try 
Michael Jordan leads the 
Tri-captains Stacy Bogataj, 
t 
to regroup after the tragic 
Bulls; Hawks and Magic
Sara Miller and Jane Murphy ___ "i . / , 
death of two teammates. 
win big.
lead the Belles on the .L 
diamond. 
see page 18
see page 12
see page 15 









