The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 84 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton meets with governors 
By EMILY HAGE 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­work critics said was missing out, and that is what we are go­
News Writer 
dent Clinton is asking some old during the aborted nomination ing to give them if we can get friends to help him sell unpopu­of Zoe Baird for attorney gen­the support across the country lar choices needed for deficit eral and his steps to end the and makes these changes," Student body president and reduction while brushing aside military's ban on gays. Clinton said Monday night. vice president election debates 
will be held today at 7:30 p.m.
early controversies by saying "He wants and recognizes the With his economic plan to be 
his new job isn't just "to do importance of having the unveiled in two weeks, and his in the Ballroom of LaFortune. 
Each ticket will be given two beyond 8:30 or 9 p.m., but be­things that are easy." governors' bipartisan support budget in March, the adminis­
"I know it defies the momen­with the people and with tration has raised the minutes for an opening state­cause there are six tickets, it tary conventional wisdom, but I Congress," said Illinois Repub­possibility of a new, broad­ment to be followed by two will be difficult. think we're off to a pretty good lican Gov. Jim Edgar. based energy consumption tax rounds of questions from The Sullivan also said that start," Clinton told a friendly On Monday, Clinton played and some cost savings in Social Observer, WSND and The according to elections audience Monday night at a host to the governors at the Security, either by raising taxes Scholastic, according to elec­regulations, Michael Connelly Democratic Governors Associa­White House and promised the on benefits to the wealthy, tions commissioner Andrea and Tom Kovats cannot run as tion dinner. shrugging off federal government would raising the eligibility age or Sullivan. co-presidents as they had bumpy moments of his first make is easier for states to use reducing annual cost of living In the first round, a repre­originally planned, but must days in the White House. Medicaid money for local increases. sentative from each organiza­determine a presidential and 
"We need to shake things up needs, part of his campaign tion will be able to ask one vice presidential candidate. in this country and have a de­pledge to "reinvent govern­Even as the White House says question, and each presi­Kovats said that Connelly will bate again," Clinton said to ap­ment" by giving states greater no final decisions have been dent/vice presidential ticket will run as president and that he plause. "Let people argue." leeway in using federal dollars. made, each of those possibili­have 90 seconds to respond. will run as vice president. 
Still. the former Arkansas ties, and others, have drawn In the second round, each Student Body president and governor was using the gover­Today, Clinton was visiting criticism from a Congress that questioner can ask two ques­vice president elections will be nors' winter meeting in Wash­the NGA to discuss his promise traditionally has been reluctant tions, directed to one or two held on Feb. 8. ington to shift focus onto staple to "end welfare as we know it" to tinker with Social Security candidates. Each ticket will Candidates are, in alphabetical campaign promises and to by providing expanded educa­and other programs with pow­have one minute to respond. order: garner grassroots support for a tion and training to recipients erful lobbies. No interruptions are allowed. • Michael Connelly and Tom deficit-reduction plan that even in exchange for capping bene­So just as critics have not The floor will then be opened Kovats; in the drafting stages already is fits at two years in most cir­waited for Clinton's fmal plan to to the general audience for • Frank Flynn and Nikki stirring opposition in Congress cumstances. complain, Clinton isn't waiting questions, each of which must Well mann; and elsewhere. Afterward, Clinton was going to try to line up political be answered in one minute. • Stephanie Gallo and Christo­
In lining up the support of to Capitol Hill to meet with support from governors for Students are encouraged to at­pher Browning; governors for economic initia­Democratic leaders of the sacrifices, still unspecified, he tend. The debates will close • Joseph Karian and Samuel tives crucial to his presidency, House and Senate. says will be needed to cut the with a one-minute closing Thomas; Clinton's White House is doing "What the American people deficit and ultimately to control statement from each ticket. • Christopher Murphy and the sort of aggressive political want is a hand up, not a hand-health care costs. Sullivan said that debate or­Emily Bloss; and 
ganizers have tried to reformat • David Reinke and Lara 
the debates so that it will not go Dickey.
Murray: Archives release dispels beliefs of Chinese mafia origins 
By KRISTIN MCGOWAN responsible for the misconcep­News Wnter tion, according to Murray. Around the turn of the cen­
The opening of archives kept tury, the time of the Chinese locked up by the Chinese gov­revolution, Sun Yat-sen joined ernment until the late 1970s the Tian di hui in an attempt to has led to the release of infor­secure its financial support for mation about the Chinese mafia his cause, Murray said. which undermines long-stand­Trying to identify himself ing popular beliefs about the more closely with the secret so­organiza-tion's origin, according ciety by finding in their past "a to Dian Murray, an associate precedent for his own activi­history professor and associate ties," Sun Yat-sen promoted the dean of undergraduate studies. legend which depicts the 
According to Chinese legend, organization's founders as po­the Chinese mafia. known as litical revolutionaries, said the Tian di hui ("Heaven and Murray. Earth Society"). was founded This legend. known as the Xi with political motives in mind, Lu legend, describes how a said Murray in a lecture enti­community of monks came to tled "The History, Mystery, and the aid of the emperor and de­Historiography of the Chinese feated barbarian enemies, she Mafia." said. They then returned to 
However, newly accessible their monastery, a.:cepting no historical documents under­reward for their services. When mine this legend, according to a traitor lied to the emperor, Murray. telling him that the monks were 
The documents indicate that rebels, the emperor had the the mafia was initially not a po­monastery burnt down. Many of litically-based organization at the monks were killed or all. but rather "a mutual aid scattered, but the five brotherhood," established in remaining formed a secret so­1761 by and for "people who ciety bent on revenge. were displaced -migrants in According to the legend, need of protection," she said. Murray said, these five were 
"Why this is interesting and the original members of the problematic is in part due to Tian di hui. the fact that the question of this The documents recently re­origin has gotten intertwined leased indicate that a few of the through the years in the Chi­characters in this legend may nese political struggle," she have been based on actual his­

The Observer/Michelle Dire 
said. torical figures, even if the 
Dian Murray, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters and 
Nationalist leader Sun Yat­story's political basis is exag­
associate professor of History, lectures last night on "The History, 
sen and his followers are most see MURRAY I page 4 
Mystery and Historiography of the Chinese Mafia." 

One-third of 
in Saint Mary's elections 
By CHRISTINA CANNON Wilkinson/O'Donnell ticket won the beginning of March. News Writer a landslide victory of 75.5% in "Our first order of business 
In Student Body elections held contrast with the 20.3% that will be the increased student yesterday at Saint Mary's, was received by the Whe­activity fee. Funds are impor­roughly one third of the campus lan/Peters ticket. tant. We need the money to cast a ballot. "I don't think anyone ex­work with," said Wilkinson. 
"I don't think that the turnout pected something like that," There will be an open forum was due to apathy or a lack of Wilkinson, t e newly elected said Wilkinson, "Lynn and I held February 8 in Carroll Hall interest in the issues. I think president for the 1993-94 aca­have nothing but high regard at 6p.m.to discuss the rise in because this year was a na­demic year. for Peters and Whelan." student activity fees. All who tional election people were just In yesterday's election the The newly elected officers wish to have input in the matter 
will officially begin their duties are encouraged to attend. 



page 2 Wednesday, February 3,1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 



students need to get more involved 
Twenty-one years ago.-------­Saint Mary's students cared about something. When the ND/SMC merger failed, students took action. They wrote letters. they staged demonstrations. they made their voices heard. 
Last year, vocal flickerings Anna Marie occurred again when Karl Tabor Eikleberger attacked SMC Saint Mary's Editor students, saying we are ridmg on the coattatls of Notre Dame. He observed a prideless school that entered the viewpoint pages of The Observer only when it was under fire. 
Well, Saint Mary's, you're under fire again and I'm the pyromaniac. If you didn't look at yesterday's issue of the newspaper serving both schools, get it off your coffee table, dig it out o the trash, or steal it from your neighbor who faithfully collects every issue. 
An important Saint Mary's story and graphic appeared on the top of the front page. Sorry is the pidly five-paragraph story by no fault of Christina Cannon. The victorious ticket was not available for comment. Even sorrier was the fact that only one-third of the population voted. 
However, Melissa Peters from the opposing ticket said, "We're disappointed because we thought more people would vote." The numerical breakdown of those who voted would be 528 out of 1600. Of those who voted, approximately 22 abstained. People! 
That means 1172 women ate neither breakfast, lunch, nor dinner on Monday. Granted, not all students enter on the Le Mans side, but McCandless doesn't house two-thirds of the eampus. How much easier can voting be made for us? It took me about 11 seconds to approach the voting table before breakfast, make an "x" in one of the three blanks on a sheet of paper, fold it, drop it in the box, and continue on my way to the bagels. 
I promise, it was painless. The ticket-taker didn't slit my wrist when I reached for my ballot. Why, I could even be shy and vote-she didn't so much as offer a voter-friendly "hi." It was one o the least traumatic events of my life. Save for the fact that I didn't have much of a choice. 
And that, my fellow students, is what we have. A choice. And the majority of the campus chose not to make it. 
The next time you complain about student government or how little there is to do at SMC or that your athletic team didn't get a story. ask yourself how much you cared when you were in a position to do something about it. 
I used to think the saying "What if someone started a war and nobody showed up?" was just a saying. I'm confident that if I picked up an M-16 and issued a battle cry, no one would follow. A select group of SMC leaders has been waging a war to involve more of the students in activities that affect their careers here. It's not an enviable 
.::. 

FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
[TI]
L f'~'~ ~ 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
i) 
H  L  
-2  -7  
59  31  
64  46  
57  45  
38  18  
39  19  
69  42  
35  12  
38  18  
37  34  
48  37  
70  51  
57  41  
42  22  
32  30  
53  24  
43  7  
46  32  
45  10  
54  30  
56  38  
36  16  
46  34  
D.C.  51  16  


position to be in. They are marching solo for the ----------------------------------------------• 
most part with a slew of indifferent grunts behind them. 
If one of Wilkinson and O'Donnell's goals is to continue their efforts to restore Saint Mary's pride, my best wishes. I hope their leadership will bring activities and ideas that give students even more of a reason to care again. The apathy on my campus is embarrassing. Let's not add this to the Saint Mary's tradition. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

News Kevin Me Guire Frank Rivera Systems Sarah Doran Harry Zembillas 
Production Accent Peggy Crooks Gerrie Hamilton Bryan Nowicki Mary Schultze 
Sports Graphics Jason Kelly Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 
Missionaries kidnapped 
• PANAMA CITY, Panama-U.S. and Panamanian authorities said today they have no word on the fate of three American missionaries kidnapped by Colombian guerrillas near the Panama-Colombia border. Lesbia Alarcon, governor of Darien Province where the kidnap­pings took place, said helicopters from the U.S. military's Southern Command overflew the jungle region all day without detecting anything. "We know nothing about their fate and the intent of the captors," Gov. Alarcon said. 
NATIONAL 
• NEW YOR -Butts are out and broccoli is in at the Clinton White House. Hillary Clinton said in The New York Times today that smoking has been banned entirely from the White House, just as it was at the Governor's Mansion in Little Rock, Ark. "The big issue about health is so paramount to me that I don't think we 
· should permit smoking," she said in her first interview since her husband's inauguration. The Clintons have never smoked. White House policy previously allowed smoking in family quarters, offices, and public rooms. Since 1991, smoking had been banned in the kitchen, locker rooms and maintenance areas. As for the menu, the Bush-instituted broccoli ban is history. 
Of INTEREST 
• Auditions for JPW Mass readers are today and • SUB 1993-94 applications are now available in
Thursday from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Basilica of Sacred Student Government. Come check it out at SUB's openHeart. 
house Mondays and Tuesdays 1 to 2 p.m. 
• Student Body presidential debate will be tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the La Fortune Ballroom. 
.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;-----;;;======--===--=--=--==----==~ 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 2 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 292,362,540 +0.17 to 243.98 

S&P COMPOSITE +0.03 to 442.55 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -3.51 to 3,328.67 
GOW + $0.10 to $330.30 oz. 
SILVER + $0.015 to $3.675 oz. 
Redistribution of students frozen 
• 
RICHMOND, Va. -Black and white parents who oppose ending racial separation in a city elementary school say children should remain in segregated classes at least until the end of the school year. On Monday, a judge blocked an attempt to end the practice of putting all white pupils in each grade in the same classroom and leaving other classes all black. Richmond's schools chief had ordered Bellevue Model Elementary School to move pupils around to achieve a more even racial distribution after a parent questioned the practice of "clustering" whites, who comprise 19 percent of the student body. But 12 parents -black and white -sued to stop the reassignments, claiming they would "disrupt the socialization and educational process at the schooL" 

• 
EW YORK -The Dallas Cowboys and Michael Jackson teamed up to make the 1993 Super Bowl the most-watched show in television history, and gave NBC its first weekly ratings victory in more than six months. NBC on Tuesday estimated that 133.4 million people watched some part of Sunday's football game, about 6.4 million more than watched the 1986 Super Bowl, the previous record-holder, also on NBC. Of the all-time top 10 most-watched shows, only one is not a Super BowL That's the final episode of "M-A-S-H'' on Feb. 28, 1983, seen by an estimated 121.6 million people, now fourth all-time. Sunday's National Football League championship game drew a national rating of 45.1 and a 66 share, the highest marks since CBS's 45.8 rating and 66 share for the New York Giants-Denver Broncos Super Bowl in 1987. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1690: The first paper money in America was issued by the colony of Massachusetts. 

• 
In 1783: Spain recognized U.S. independence. 

• 
In 1913: The 16th Amendment to the Constitution, providing for a federal income tax, was ratified. 

• 
In 1959: On "the day the music died," a plane crash near 


Clear Lake, Iowa, killed rock 'n' roll stars Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens and J.P. "The Big Bopper" Richardson. 
• In 1988: The House of Representatives rejected President 
Reagan's request for $36.25 million dollars in aid to the Nicaraguan Contras. 
------~-~----------­

Wednesday, February 3,1993 

Summer Jobs 


Like Children? Like the Outdoors? 
We are looking for energetic people to work as camp counselors in Northern Minnesota. Looking for staff in sailing, swimming, boardsailing, tennis, fencing, archery, tiflery, biking, waterskiing, arts/ crafts, soccer, environmental studies and more... 
Come see us: Friday, Feb. 5 at LaFortune and LeMans both from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00p.m. 
The Observer page 3 

Mandel a spokesperson Robinson discusses United States' policies toward South Africa, Haiti 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 

Randall Robinson, Nelson Mandela's former spokesperson in the United States, will appear today at Notre Dame to­day to deliver a lecture on "Policies on South Africa and Haiti in the New Administra­tion: Will There Be Peace?" 
A graduate of Harvard Law School, Robinson is Executive Director of Trans-Africa, a lob­bying organization that works on behalf of Africa and the Caribbean. 
Robinson has chiefly focused on South African and Caribbean issues throughout his career. Recently, he was instrumental in garnering sanctions against South Africa that cost the country ten billion dollars. 
He was previously with the lobbying group Africare and became primarily visible in fighting against apartheid. He 
By MAIT JEZIOR News Writer 

Nadine Strossen, former president of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), will give a lecture on sexual ha­rassment and pornography tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Her lecture will address a re­cent idea suggesting that pornography is a form of sexual harassment, according to Megan Moriarty of the Student Union Board (SUB). 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE Our good rates may save you money We now offer a Good Student Discount Call fer a quote 
9 a.m.-5 p.m. 289~ 1993 Office next to CamptLS 


II Resolved, that the ban on homosexuals in the United States Military should be lifted~~~ 
The first dorm listed has an affirmative position and is the location for that particular debate. 
ROUND TWO 
Alumni Bv. Siegfried 
Sorin v. Alumni A 
Zahm v. Pangborn 
Stanford v. St. Edls 
Breen -Phillips v. Badin 
Morrissey v. Fisher 
Keenan v. Dillon 
Round Two will be held at 9:00 PM on Wednesday. February 3. 



Randall Robinson 
has also worked with the South African Relief Fund. 
In dealing with Haitian rela­tions, Robinson, Sharon Kelly Pratt, mayor of Washington, D.C., and Arthur Ashe, former tennis player, actively protested the expulsion of Haitians from the United States. 
Robinson has served under representatives William Clay and Charles Diggs of Missouri and Michigan, respectively. He 

Strossen to discuss sexual harassment 
Sexual harassment is an im­portant topic for the students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because of "the recent increase in rape awareness and the cur­rent issue of security for women," said Dan Alesia, SUB ideas and images commissioner. 
Strossen, currently a profes­sor of constitutional law, federal courts and human rights at New York Law School, was the first female president of the ACLU. She attended Harvard Law School, where she edited 
• 

• 
was a public interest lawyer in Boston for several years and has had several articles pub­lished in various major publica­tions. 
Robinson has received such honors as the Martin Luther King Jr. Distinguished Service and Humanitarian Award, the Congressional Black Caucus Award, the Foundation Fellow and the Johnson Publishing Company American Black Achievement Award. ABC-TV voted him person of the week. 
He was also awarded the Southern Christian Leadership Conference Drum Major for Justice Award and received an Honorary Doctorate in 1986 from Chicago's Columbia Col­lege. 
Robinson will be appearing in the Hesburgh Library Audito­rium at 7 p.m. A reception will be held in the North Dining Hall Gold Room following the pre­sentation. 
the Law Review and graduated cum laude in 1975. 
Strossen was invited to speak because "she is the first female president of the ACLU," said Alesia. 
The lecture will be the second lecture in the "Thinking Anew" series sponsored by SUB, ac­cording to Alesia. The series is intended to bring fresh points of view on the topics of the economy, sexual harassment, children and poverty and the environment. 

Correction 
In a Jan. 26 article, Notre Dame Law Professor Douglas Kmiec referred to a Jan. 22 memorandum from President Bill Clinton as an "executive order." The Observer has since learned that the President's action, lifting the "gag rule" on abortion counseling at federally funded clinics, was originally considered an "executive order" by the White House, but later referred to as a "presidential memorandum." The Observer regrets the error and any confusion it may have caused about the President's directive. 
LONDON • PARIS • WASHINGTON 
INTERNATIONAL PROGRA 
BOSTON 
UNIVERSITY 
LEARN HOW THE WORLD WORKS 
Global Internships and Language/Liberal Arts Programs 



BEIJING • SYDNEY • MOSCOW • 
Name: _________________________________________ 
Address::_______________________________________ 
City/State/Zip:--------------------------------­Phone:( ) University: --------------------1 
Fall 0 Spring 0 Summer 0 19__ 
Internship Programs Language Programs Summer Programs 
DLondon DGrenoble Olondon 
DPorls D Oxford D Madrid 
DMoscow DHo~o DPodovo 
0Sydney 0 Madrid D Paris 
Dwashington.DC DPadova 0Sydney 
DBeijlng DOxford DMoscow retum to· D Niamey D Beijing Boston U~lverslly, Division of lnlemallonal Programs O.Voshington. DC 232 Bay state Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 02215 or caD (61 n 353-9888 
page4 The Observer 

Wednesday, February 3, 1993 

Israel shielded from sanctions 

Christopher struck with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on Palestinian exiles prevents a strain in relations that the new Clinton administration is de­termined to avoid. 
But it will work only if the Arabs and their supporters at the United Nations accept the terms of the compromise that could leave some 300 Palestini­ans in exile for the rest of the year. 
Initially, the Palestine Libera­tion Organization turned thumbs down. Nasser al­Kidwa, the PLO's U.N. observer, told reporters Monday "the issue is the integrity of international law." 
He vowed to go ahead with a resolution calling for sanctions against Israel unless all the Palestinians expelled Dec. 17 on suspicion of fomenting vio­lence were repatriated. 
Christopher, who practiced five days of intensive, quiet diplomacy with Rabin to get Is­rael to make several conces­sions, now through intermedi­aries will have to persuade the 
flourishing" today, Murray said. 
"Some individuals in the criminal justice department of the U.S. estimate that Chinese triads (secret societies) today are either equal to or surpass­ing the Italian mafia in their scale of organization and in the pervasiveness with which they are found," she said. 
Otherwise, the Security Council will have the kind of heated debate Christopher sought to avoid. And if the United States is forced to fulfill Christopher's pledge to "shield" Israel and veto sanctions, that could antagonize the Arabs and reduce Christopher's chances of getting Mideast peace talks resumed. 
The Clinton administration not only did not want a Security Council debate, it did not want to have to use its veto for the first time in more than two years against the Arabs and their supporters. 
That would put the United States squarely in Israel's corner and hurt the Clinton administration's "honest bro­ker" image in the peace talks. 
Rabin evidently saw the wis­dom of that U.S. concern, so he agreed to take back 100 exiles, cut in half the duration of the others' deportations and permit delivery of relief supplies. 
The PLO, however, wants nothing less than the nullifica­tion of the deportations. 
Murray, who has been re­searching the history of the Chinese mafia for over five years, is currently coordinating with Qin Baoqi, a professor at the People's University of Bei­jing, on a book called The Ori­gins of the Tian di hui: The Chinese Triads in Legend and History, scheduled to be out in 1993. 



Murray 
continued from page 1 
gerated, Murray said. 
Beca.use "it was one of the only groups which could be said to be a national body, national on scope, prior to the time of the revolution," the Nationalist government came to attribute much of its own history to secret societies, according to Murray. So, "they had a vested interest in seeing that the Tian di hui arrived from as venerable and honorable a pedigree as possible." 

The problem was that until now, "there were no good his­torical sources to check out the origins" of the organization, she said. 'The only thing they had that seemed like it could explain the origins" was the Xi Lu legend. For this reason, she said, "the legend has taken on a reality of its own." 
The Chinese mafia is still "alive, well, functioning and 



Be Our Guest ... Be Our Guest! 
Here are 6 more reasons to attend the 
THE ALL-NIGHT DISNEY MOVIE MARATHON! 
6. Goodie Bags to those attending The Rescuers at 1:30a.rn. 
5. A Good Study Break! 
4. A Great First Date! (FREE). 
3. Popcorn, Cotton Candy, Soda 
2. The Sleepover Your Parents Would Not Let You Have! 
1. GREAT DISNEY CLASSICS -101 Dalmations-9:00p.m. -Beauty and the Beast-10:30p.m. -The Jungle Book-12:00a.m. 
-The Rescuers-1:30a.m. -Fantasia-2:45-4:45a.m. 
February 6, 1993 in the Ballroom o LaFortune 
ciety will begin to accept this them feel uncomfortable, she disease, and be more com­said. passionate towards the men "Just be there for them, and women affected by it. don't isolate them or exclude Friends of those with this them," said Yoder. problem can talk to them and not embarrass or make 
ACourse In 



Economics. 

Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality 
~-------l~-------J~-------l 
:$1.00 Off:: $5.00 Off:\ 200/o Off \ 
\ Haircut : : Penn :\All Haircare ~ 
I II II I 
With student 1.0 1 1 With student I.D 1 1 W1th student 1.0 1 I
\ No double d1scounls I I No double d1scoun1s I I No double d1scounls I 
I reg. $8.95 I I I I I 
L_Maste~J L~~-J L_Maste~J 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

University Park Mall 
c Fleq1s Coroora11on 1992 
277-3770 

Yoder 
continued from page 1 
that there was more to it than the dictionary defini­tion, she began to face the real problems. 
There were many fears that Yoder was, at first, not able to faee. She had a fear of failure, and was con­stantly comparing herself to others. 

"The food thing I could control, but everything out­side of the food, I couldn't control, and it scared me," Yoder said. 
Now, five years later, Yo­der has been through the recovery process and was crowned Miss Indiana last year. While preparing for the Miss America pageant, she decided to use the subject of eating disorders for her number one platform. 
"I had to tell other people that it is okay to have a problem like this. It is not the end of the world, but it can be the beginning," Yoder said. 
Yoder finished the pageant as a runner up to the Miss America crown. 
Yoder is hopeful that so­
Wednesday, February 3, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Service reflects on Loretto 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
Students and sisters of the Holy Cross gathered together to share their personal emotions and experiences evoked from the six months of renovation of the Church of Loretto at an evening prayer service held in the Regina Chapel yesterday. 
"When I first heard of the renovation I was unhappy about the changes, I couldn't understand how they could tamper with something as beautiful as Loretto," said Denise Frantonius, a Saint Mary's student present at the Regina service. 
"As a singer I was disap­pointed to hear that they planned to remove the choir balconies," she said. "But now that some time has passed and I have had the opportunity to think about the changes I wel­come them." 
The reflections also focused on the feast of Jesus' presenta­tion in the temple and the re­sponses of the people paralleled this event to the renovation ac­tivities. 
This service was the first cel­ebration in a series of three planned to celebrate the re­opening of the Church of Loretto. 
The controversial renovation of Loretto, which was decided by the General Council of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, began in mid May of 1992 and is now nearing completion. 
The changes included im­provements in visibility, acous­tics, lighting, heating and venti­lation systems, and accommo­dation the needs of the physi­cally challenged. 
Other events will be the dedi­cation liturgy on Feb. 27 at 10 
a.m. and the open house tours on Feb. 28 from 1-3 p.m. These celebrations are open to the public. 

Beating victim decries Marines' anti-gay violence 

WILMINGTON, N.C. (AP) -A gay man who said three Marines beat him up because of President Clinton's push to lift the ban on homosexuals in the military is seeking a meeting with the president. 
"He says he is willing to listen to American people,' Crae Pridgen said on the "Today" show this morning. "And I'm an American person who has something to say. And I'm a victim who doesn't want to go unheard." 
Pridgen, 28, said that he wants to tell the president about attacks on homosexuals and that he hopes Clinton will establish a task force on gay bashing. 
Clinton has begun steps to end the military's 50-year ban on homosexuals. 
Pridgen said the Marines shouted, "Clinton's going to pay!" during the fight Saturday at a gay bar. Pridgen lost a tooth and suffered a black eye, a swollen lip and a cut ear. 
"I was brutally beaten be­cause I was gay," he said. "I felt like my civil rights had been violated." 
Three Camp Lejeune lance corporals -Colin Hunt, 20, Patrie Gardone, 23, and Walter 
WOULD 


$40,000 

HELP WITH COLLEGE? 
You can earn more than $15,000 during a standard Army Reserve enlistment... 
Andanother $5,040 ifyou qualify for the Montgomery Gl Bill... 
Plus ifyou have or obtain a qualified student loan, you could gethelp paying it off­up to $20,000-ifyou train in certain specialties. 
And that's for part-time service-usually one week­end a month plus two weeks' Annual Training. 
Think about it. Then think about us. And call today: 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 

ARMY RESERVE 

Watkns, 26 -were charged with assault and released on $400 bail each. 
The Marines showed no re­morse as they were booked, po­lice said Monday. 
"They were saying things like they hate all faggots and they wish they were all dead and they're not ashamed of it," said Ed Gibson, police desk sergeant. 
Pridgen credited three wit­nesses with saving him. 
"One lady jumped on top of me and said that if they were going to beat me, they were go­ing to have to beat her." Otherwise, he said, "I believe I would have been dead." 
Pridgen went to Raleigh on Monday and met with repre­sentatives of Gov. Jim Hunt, who was at the meeting of the National Governors Association in Washington, D.C. He gave them a letter to Hunt and a copy of the police report. 
Hunt issued a statement de­nouncing hate crimes and ordered further investigation by the Human Relations Com­mission. Local police said they asked the FBI to investigate also. 
White House deputy press secretary Lorraine Voles said today she didn't know anything about Pridgen's stated wish to meet with Clinton. 
PRAGUE, Czech Republic (AP) -Vaclav Havel was inau­gurated today as president of the new Czech Republic, which cemented its separation from Slovakia with the unanimous approval of a separate new cur­rency. 
Havel, Communist Czechoslovakia's leading dissi­dent, became its president in December 1989 following the democratic "Velvet Revolution." He stepped down in July after failing to prevent the breakup of Czechoslovakia. 
The Czech Republic and Slo­vakia formally split on Jan. 1. Last week, Havel easily won election in the Czech Parlia­ment to an office he had never wanted to hold. 
"I think we made a good choice," Parliament speaker Milan Uhde said before Havel, a 56-year-old playwright-turned­politician, was sworn in to a five-year term. 
"Policies on South Africa and Haiti in the New Administration: Will There Be Peace?" 
A lecture to be delivered by: 
Randall Robinson 
(Executive Director of Trans-Africa) 
"It may be that nobody did more to build the anti-apartheid movement in the U.S. than Randall Robinson"--NY DAILY NEWS 
"Robinson has done more than any other American to advocate change in South Africa"--THE BOSTON GLOBE 
February 3, 1993 7:00 PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
A reception held in the North Dining Hall (Blue Room) will follow the presentation. 
Sponsored by the Offices of Minority Student Affairs, African & African American Studies, Hesburgh Peace Institute, Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Campus Ministry, and the Department of Government 
He lauded Havel as a "man of truth" who could work with the conservative government coalition led by Vaclav Klaus. 
The ceremony took place in the late-Gothic Vladislav Hall of Prague's Hradcany castle, the traditional place of coronation of Czech kings. 
The presidents of nearly all neighboring countries Richard von Weizsaecker of Germany, Thomas Klestil of Austria, Arpad Goencz of Hun­gary and Lech Walesa of Poland -attended. 
But Slovakia's Premier Vladimir Meciar, whose defi­ance of Prague helped undo Havel's attempts to preserve the Czechoslovak federation, stayed away on grounds of ill health. Meciar ally Roman Ko­vac represented Slovakia. 
As president, Havel will have powers to negotiate make treaties with foreign states, is­sue pardons, proclaim elections and send laws back to Parlia­ment for re-consideration. 
Earlier, the 200-seat Czech parliament voted 173-0 to split the Czechoslovak currency, the crown, into separate Czech and Slovak crowns. Another 16 deputies abstained. 
The Slovak parliament scheduled its own vote on the issue later today. 
Both legislatures were voting on laws enacted earlier allow­ing the division of the Czechoslovak crown into the new currencies. 
On Thursday, banks and post offices in both republics will begin exchanging Czechoslovak crowns for the new currencies, which will be valid in each country as of Monday. Bank deposits will be automatically recognized in the new currencies. 
Each of the new crowns will be exchanged at equal-value to the old crown, but the Czech currency is likely to be .more stable due to the Czech Repub­lic's stronger economic stand­ing. 
Slovakia, burdened with obsolete industries built during the Communist era, may be forced to devalue its currency. 
Czechoslovakia broke up after leaders in each republic failed to reconcile growing differences over the pace of economic reforms. Those problems were stoked by growing nationalism in Slovakia. 

"Even if animal research resulted in a cure for AIDS, we'd be against it." 
-Ingrid Newkirk Founder, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals ~. September, 1989 
Fed up with the "animal rights" movement? 
"Animal rights" groups equate the life of a child with that ofa rat. They are stifling medical research through disinformation, harassment, ~~ terror. Now you can do something about th~ dtsmforma­tion on your campus. Students for Medtcal Progress, a program ofAmericans for Medical Progress, will help you work locally to support biomedical research, bring speakers to your campus •.and o~ga­nize to start campus chapters. Support bwmedtcal 
research. Call: 1-800-4-AMP-USA 
RESEARCH SAVES LIVES 
page 6 

Rockets kill dozens in Kabul; Four UN workers reported dead 
KABUL, Afghanistan (APJ Fundamentalist guerrillas stepped up a 2-week-old battle for the capital Tuesday, firing scores of rockets that killed at least 72 p•wple and wounded more than 80, state-run radio said. 
Meanwhile. U.N. aid officials in Pakistan said they ordered non-Afghan workers to leave an eastern Afghanistan province Tuesday after gunmen ambushed a U.N. convoy and killed four people. 
Much of Afghanistan has been plagued by fighting or banditry sinee a Communist regime eollapsed in April after a 14­year civil war. touching off feuds among the victorious Muslim guerrilla groups over running the country. 
In its nightly broadcast, Kabul Badio said more than 75 Egyptian-made rockets ex­ploded across the city during the day. The radio blamed the llezb-e-Islami guerrilla faction, which has been trying to unseat the Islamie government of Burhanuddin Habbani and set up a fundamentalist state. 
Government troops have at­tacked llezb-e-lslami bases on the southern edge of the city. But neither side appears to have the advantage in fighting that has killed more than 300 people, wounded 1,500 and forced tens of thousands to flee 


Gates Tbyota 
20% off to all 
students and faculty 
when seryicing your 
Toyota af Gates 
Toyota S~rvice Department. 
Shuttle Bus available 
to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Call 2 3 7-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.5 5 "/love what you dojJrm£." @TOYOTA 


since Jan. 19. 
Hezb-e-Islami's leader, Gul­buddin Hekmatyar, has vowed to keep attaeking the city until Rabbani and his government step aside and agree to nation­wide eleetions within a year. 
Rabbani has rejected the de­mand, citing his election to a two-year term in December by a national assembly of tribal elders, religious scholars and prominent rebel commanders. 
Hekmatyar and other rebel leaders contend that the assembly was bogus and that Rabbani's government bought off delegates. 
U.N. oiTicials said four of five 
U.N. workers traveling in a convoy in Nangarhar Province in eastern Afghanistan were slain by three gunmen Monday. Two of the dead a Briton and a Dutehman were dragged from their vehicles and shot in the head, the oiTicials said. 
No one claimed responsibility for the attack. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 3, 1993 



'1 •
-
•
.-~ 
l 

With Visa* you•n be accepted at more than 






Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 3, 1993 page 7 
The Observer 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ..••.•..............•• David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ..........••.•.... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .•....••••.Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ...........•.....••..••. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Class of 1993, are you
As part of the "Thinking Anew" series examining do­mestic issues of the election year and now of a new admin­istration in a new light, Ms. Strossen will examine the link between sexual harassment and pornography, offering a relatively new insight on pornography as sexual ha­rassment. 
In addition to her duties as the current chair of the ACLU, Nadine Strossen is a professor of constitutional law, federal courts, and human rights at the New York Law School and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School in addition to serving as the editor of the Law Review. 
We invite the Notre Dame community to partake in what promises to be a thought-pro­voking evening. 
Dan Alesia 
Ideas & Issues Commissioner 
Bridget Conley 
Bryan Reardon 
Assistant Commissioners 
Feb.1,1993 
DOONESBURY 
I WN'T KNCWABafT 
YOU!< FW<lNTS, 5AM­
7HEYWN'T 5CeM 7V 
GflfTI 


getting any 'satisfaction'? 
Dear Editor: 
The selection of Tom Brokaw as Notre· Dame's commence­ment speaker is a real drag. Brokaw, with his condescending attitude and bad haircut, is about as hip as Abe Vigoda. 
Demonstrating what a com­plete phony he is at the pathetic Clinton inaugural celebration, he mispronounced Michael Stipe's name as "Steep" and then claimed to be relieved when the cameras shifted to Judy Collins, someone Brokaw claimed was from "his genera­tion" (at which point, this viewer was hoping that Pete Townsend would arrive on the scene and clean Brokaw's clock with a '58 Telecaster). 
Yet this idea of generations got nie to thinking. Our com­mencement speaker can't really be from the students' gen­eration, but definitely can be from the generation Brokaw claims to have such close kin­ship to so the solution is obvi­ous: INVITE KEITH RICHARDS. 
Now you may be thinking to yourself "Keith Richards as our commencement speaker? This guy has been passing around too many dirty needles." Okay, I'll admit the down-side: Richards was strung out on heroin for about ten years or so and he had a major hand in the Rolling Stones, the most glee­fully misogynistic band in the universe. 
Yet once all you politically correct fairies quit whining, you'll realize that there has never been anyone cooler than Keith Richards in the history of the world (except maybe Jesus). Who else has told English Parliament that their "petty morals are illegitimate"? Who else has responded to question­ing about being arrested for public urination with the phrase "We piss where we want"? Who else has written so many great guitar riffs? Who else has the body of an elf and the constitution of a Viking? 
Remember, man, Tom Brokaw can only tell us about Altamont, Richards lived it. Can't you hear me knocking? 
Jeffrey Kenny Klotz Grace Hall Jan.26,1993 
TWO £0N6MONTH5 OFtoYAl­sa?VICE 70 7HIS FM11L-Y, ANIJ /A/HATWI HAV&' 70 5HOIAI fVI< 17?N07H­
lNG/ NO 5AV!NG5, NO 
P&A/5/0N,NO HEAL.TH PLAN... 
" 
IT's A5 IFI OON'T ~V£N &X15T.' ANPAUet:CIJIJEtS 
YWI< MOMANOOAO tuANT7rJAVOIPmY­
ING 7AX/3S ON ' A SALARY.' 

car, stole my license plate, and  down.  
so "thoughtfully" left me an ob­ Jinhy Yoon  
scene note scolding me of my  Breen Phillips Hall  
parking job.  February 1 , 1993  



Reader responds to 'negative' endorsement 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to The Observer's "Vote Wilkinson, but vote cautiously" en­dorsement which appeared in the paper on Friday, January 29, 1993. 
I find it quite discouraging for a school newspaper to be so negative about students run­ning for office in student gov­ernment. These four women: MaryBeth, Lynn, Melissa, and Melissa deserve our utmost re­spect and admiration for the vision and the aspirations which they have for Saint Mary's College. I would like to congratulate these women for the long hours of work and de­liberate thought that they put into their campaigns. 
You four deserve support in all of your endeavors and know 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
that it is here on campus though it may not always ap­pear that way to you. The time and thought you have put into your campaigns is not as visible as your final judged product, but know that your outcomes result only in positive progress for Saint Mary's as your work is coming directly from the stu­dent body and in support of the student body as well. 
In your search for the best for our school, we can only return your vision through positive involvement and reinforcement throughout your campaign. Congratulations on your achievement and the best of luck to the four of you. 
Katie Linehan Holy Cross Hall Jan.31,1993 

fAIHY IXJN'T YW S7CAI.­7H& 51/..VCR­
/A/ARE? 
~ 
"""'""" .... 0 
54M& K/NIJA aAl-. 1'0 HAV~ 70FIIY 7A.X£5 ONIT. 
I 

'The God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the same time.' 
Thomas Jefferson -principal author of the Declaration of Independence 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 


Accent 
page 8 Wednesday, February 3, 1993 
Jeanne Blasi From the Playpen 

NO becomes a family of thieves 
I 
am beginning to feel the Notre Dame "family" is becoming more like my own. My things keep disappearing. But, 
when my little brother 'borrows' my 
Barry Manilow CD, I merely break 
down the door to his room to reclaim 
my prized possession. 

It would be too time consuming to pay every 
member of the ND family the same courtesy 
every time someone steals something. 

To those persons who naively refuse to believe 
an ND student would steal, let me point out a 
few choice incidents where the true moral 
character of the "classy" ND students shines 
through. 

'1\vo friendly students who were so distraught at not being able to enjoy the aura of the Commons that when they saw a woman at a bar who resembled one of them, they felt she ought to unwillingly contribute to their cause. So, one girl distracted the victim while the other stole her identification holder which contained her license, student 1.0., and credit cards. They felt great-exhilarated-heck, they even thought of charging the next day's lunch on this unfortunate woman's charge card. 
Wouldn't you love to pal around with these model students? You may be. Hang on to your wallets girls. 
Would you like to meet some other prized family membflrs? 
An admired walk-on football player who persevered for two years as a member of the team mistakenly wore his varsity letter jacket to senior bar one recent night. Another student, obviously lacking in any kind of athletic ability, but, as all NO students are, full of class, was so jealous that he or she felt obliged to take this player's jacket for him or her self. This unfortunate player has to pay a large sum of money to obtain a replacement, thanks to one considerate member of NO's 'family.' 
Have any of your friends recently acquired a new jacket? 
After purchasing and wearing my new $50 Walsh sweatshirt, I foolishly decided I should wash it in Walsh's laundry room. When I went to check if my clothes were dry, the dryer was still running, but my new sweatshirt was gone. One of my own dormmates stole my wet Walsh sweatshirt out of the clothes dryer. I have not seen it since. 
I've heard of jeans, shirts, sweaters, underwear, bras, quarters, detergent, and even laundry bags that were also stolen from this same laundry room. 
"Iii, how are you, I stole your leopard-skin bra out of the washing machine this morning." And how many people have had their books or notes stolen by a fellow domer before finals? 
I friend of mine took a break from studying for her accounting final only to find that someone had stolen her accounting book from the dorm's study lounge in the short time she had been gone. 
Lest we let these fine characters go without our due thanks for their heroic antics,the rest af the ND students need to speak up and acknowledg11 this 'sharing' philosophy. Students neod to join together to build our reputation as a student body with 'class.' These victims and how thrilled they would be to meet the person for whom they sacrificed such a minute gift. 
To all of the thieves and kleptomaniacs on campus: Thank you! It is people like yourselves who really give the student body 'class.' 
Jeanne Blasi is production manager ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 




Inner city challenge 

Recent graduates help revitalize Chicago parochial schools in the Teaching Corps 
By MARY SCHULTZE 
Accent Writer 
Julie Shepherd confronts illit­eracy, crime, children from broken homes, and possible future gang members-all for $5 a day. As a volunteer in the Inner-City Teaching Corps (ICTC), Shepherd has committed herself for two years to teach 
in Chicago's inner-city 'This is a good grade papers
parochial schools. and prepare 
A 1992 Notre Dame (teaching) experience lesson plans," graduate, Shepherd s a i d learned about the and they need young Shepherd. program when Pat I b · She also 
Ryan, ICTC Executive pe0p e tO nng a finds it Director, came to brig her OUtlOOk tO the challenging to campus last spring to keep the recruit students with inner city. s t u d e n t s an interest in interested in community service. -Julie Shepherd I earning."The ICTC is looking _________...:....____ "Creativity is 
for bright, energetic recent college graduates who want to apply their talent and enthusiasm to Chicago's inner-city parochial schools," said Ryan. 
A Georgetown University graduate and former teacher on Chicago's west side, Ryan founded the program in 1991. As an undergraduate Ryan heard about a Georgetown program that sent students to teach in South Africa and decided the idea could work just as well on the South Side of Chicago. 
After successfully selling the idea to educators and businesses and with the help of $50,000 a year until 1994 from Big Shoulders, a group of business leaders who financially support inner-city parochial schools, the ICTC placed 12 recent college graduates in teaching positions throughout the city. 
Shepherd has been teaching 
seventh-graders at Saint Elizabeth's School for half a year. This school is near the Robert Taylor Homes, the nation's largest housing development and known for crime and gang activity. "It's a 24 hour job, you're never really done. I'm at school from 8 a.m. to around 4:30 p.m., go home and have dinner, and then 
very important in getting the kids interested. Many of them come from broken homes, homes with no discipline, or have 
family members in gangs," stated share ideas and 
'One of the benefits
Shepherd. "It's hard help each other to keep their minds out with
has been getting to 
on education." problems," said
know the people first­Shepherd. 
Despite the Along with dangerous envi-hand -I get to see the their daily ronment and lack of teaching duties, 

faces behind the 
resources, Shepherd ICTC volunteers recommends the stories.' are involved in ICTC program to after school ac­interested students. -Julie Shepherd tivities such as "I joined because I -------------coaching. 
selves everyday," said Shepherd. 
A native of Iowa, Shepherd be­lieves her teaching experience has allowed her to see a different side of the world, which many people never see. "One of the benefits has been getting to know the people first-hand-! get to see the faces behind the stories," commented Shepherd. 
Before the school year begins, the ICTC volunteers must attend a training institute developed for the ICTC by National-Louis University. The training is specifically designed to prepare Corps members for the challenges of teaching in the inner-city. 
Volunteers are paid a monthly stipend of $150 and also live in a community house. Shepherd shares living space with nine other volunteer teachers, including 1992 Notre Dame graduate Aneel Ch­ablani. "The community living is a great benefit because we can 

wanted to go into teaching but I had only taken a few course at Saint Mary's, not enough to be certified. This is a good [teaching] experience and they need young people to bring a brighter outlook to the inner-city." Applicants should be "interested in teaching and challenging them-
The ICTC is actively recruiting at Notre Dame. Students interested in "channeling their enthusiasm towards helping inner-city children" and becoming a ICTC volunteer should contact Mary Ann Roemer in the Center of Social Concerns. 



Accent 
Wednesday, February 3, 1993 page 9 
Acut above the rest 
Owner of Vito•s Barber Shop, Tony Rulli celebrates 50 years of cutting hair 
By EMILY HAGE The Observer. to the barber shop you look forward to." Vito's pulls about half of its customers "It's like a comedy routine," said junior 
Accent Writer 
from Notre Dame, especially football Greg Burnstein of Rulli's conversation.
Entertaining conversation and players, hockey players, and male Senior Steve Tann said that Rulli offersquality haircuts have kept cus­R.O.T.C. students, but his other visitors "the best conversation from a barbertomers flowing into Vito's Barber 
include children getting their first ever found, and the best marriage
Shop, 1523 Lincoln Way West, haircuts, senior citizens, and business counseling ever." Sear said that one ofsince 1927. From shining shoes people. Rulli's favorite topics of conversation is aas a boy in the 1930s to cutting 
The Notre Dame community is survey of whether Notre Dame male
hair for the past 50 years, owner important to Rulli. "I really relate to students prefer Note Dame or SaintTony Rulli has enjoyed the per­Notre Dame students," said Rulli. The Mary's females. Rulli says that Notre
sonalities that have come 
walls of his old-time-style barber shop Dame ratings are going up . 
., through Vito's, which his father, 
are covered with Notre Dame para­Since the days when Notre Dame
Vito Rulli, began in 1927. "We phernalia, and Rulli even subscribes to football players were his "heroes," Rullihave a lot of fun in here," said The Observer. has seen many famous domers come andRulli. 
The popularity of Vito's among domers go. Moose Krause was a regular cus­
Rulli began cutting hair in 
and the South Bend community keeps tomer for 18 years. "We were real good 1943 and took over the business the chairs full, but customers don't seem friends; we had some great timesin 1954. His father worked with to mind the wait. "If you have to wait, together," said Rulli. 
him until he died in 1981. 
you just listen to [Rulli's] stories. He Though he and his assistant, TedPeople come to socialize. He knows just about everyone who comes Mazac, are flexible with their hours insaid his business is "just like a in, and it's a different experience every order to accommodate their customers,bar, but there's no booze. You time you go," said junior Tom Sear of they are usually open from about 7:30can drop 20 dollars in a bar, and Morrissey Hall, who has been going to a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday throughat Vito's, it's only $5.50." Rulli in­Vito's since freshman year. "It is a trip Saturday.
troduces Notre Dame students to each other and because of the conversation in his shop, which ranges from football to politics, "You always leave [Vito's] smarter than when you came in." 
Rulli takes a personal interest in his customers. Sometimes he gets a sandwich with his last customer, and one of his regulars invited him to his wedding re­ception. Past customers often visit when they are in the South Bend area, as well. 
Why is Vito's so popular? "It's a good haircut for a good price," said Burnstein, a customer for the past two years. Rulli said that most of his customers find 
The Observer/ Sean Farnan out about Vito's from word of The Observer/ Sean Farnan Besides the promise of a good haircut at a great price, mouth and he also advertises in Vito's Barber Shop, at 1523 Lincolnway West, has served the Notre Dame/ South Bend Vito's customers are treated to lively conversation. ' community for over 50 years. 
Twisted Rock 'n' Roll 
Dallowayls Coffeehouse features the music of singer/ songwriter Brian Huskey 
By ANNE DELANEY "All Things Considered" and "Live from Accent Writer Down Home" have featured him, as well as local television shows in the Caroli­
One of the nation's most unheralded nas. singer/songwriters, Brian Huskey will His venues include over 500 college appear tonight at Saint Mary's campuses and hundreds of showcase Dalloway's Coffeehouse, according to clubs in major cities across the country Marlene Johnson, assistant director of and internationally. At American 
Student Activities. universities and colleges, he has been 
Influenced by the musical sounds of reviewed as unique, demonstrating a gift the late '60s and early 70s, Huskey for blending humor, talent, and began playing the guitar around 1970 creativity. "[Huskey's performance] ... a and has been performing professionally tremendously successful performance, since he finished high school. our best and largest coffeehouse [turn­
His style has since developed from out] of the quarter," according to emulating the voices of his youth, such Radford University of Radford, Va. as The Beatles and soul music typical of Listeners are assured that his 
his native South. He has developed his presentation, one of creativity and close own style, though, and incorporates his rapport with the audience, will be background and influence into his work. different and memorable. He is a 
"Coming of age in the new South there performer who relies on his strengths as was still the lingering influence of real a guitarist and singer, rather than Nashville country music and bluegrass impersonal, "computer-band" back-up, 
thrown in for good measure," his to create an attention-grabbing and biography said. "Today his is truly a entertaining show. song stylist-a musical melting pot j covering an extensive array of other "In this dull era of cookie-cutter 
artists' songs." musicians cranking out bland, generic 
Huskey covers everyone from Van versions of tired songs, Huskey's stock­Morrison, the Allman Brothers, and the own appealing originals. He is an a phone booth if he could shake enough in-trade is a staunch refusal to be Grateful Dead, to Elvis Costello, Buddy accomplished and talented songwriter quarters out of it," and has held true to musically pigeon-holed," one critic said. Holly, and Lyle Lovett. However, his and currently has three recordings out, his word, remaining on the road 300 "Instead of being merely a human music has a humorous and entertaining with a CO/cassette project currently in days a year. jukebox he selects a vast array of great edge, one that differs from the works. songs and puts his own mark on them." conventionally cranking out tunes. Huskey's track record is prolific for a a Huskey has opened for concert acts Brian Huskey will appear at 
performer who does not carry a major such as "The Band," A. Whitney Brown, 
Besides playing a variety of familiar Dalloway's Coffeehouse tonight from 8­
songs, he complements his show with his record label. He said that "he'd play in and Arlo Guthrie. National Public Radio's 10p.m. 


page 1o The Observer 
Edmonton's defense holds off Bruins, Los Angeles continues to struggle 
BOSTON (AP) -The Edmon­ton Oilers took advantage of Calagry 6 Quebec 3 poor defense and goaltending Washington 4 Los Angeles 2 by Boston to build an early lead QUEBEC (AP) -Owen Nolan
LANDOVER, Md. (AP)
and then held on for a 4-3 vic­scored his 29th goal and added
Robert Reichel's breakaway
tory Tuesday night over the an assist as the Quebec
goal with 1:20 left snapped a tie 
Bruins. Nordiques beat the Los Angeles
and lifted the Calgary Flames 
Kings 3-2 Tuesday night, ex­
past Washington 6-4 Tuesday
Boston outshot the Oilers 48-tending their unbeaten streak
night, ending the Capitals' 13­
24 and dominated play in the to five games. 
game home unbeaten streak. 
second and third periods, but The Nordiques, with three
Reichel had two goals and an 
could not catch Edmonton after victories and two ties in their
assist and goalie Mike Vernon 
it built a 4-1 first-period lead. last five games, moved within
three points of the Adams Divi­
who have won three straight
Shayne Corson. Kelly Buch­sion-leading Montreal Canadi­
since an 11-game winless 
berger, Shjon Podein and Petr ens.
streak.
Klima scored for the Oilers. The Kings are 1-4-1 in their
Washington, which was 9-0-4 
Vladimir Ruzicka, Ray Bourque last six games, and 4-8-1 since
at the Capital Centre since Nov. 
and Joe Juneau had the Boston Wayne Gretzky's return to the
20, is winless in its last five 
goals. lineup from a back injury. 
games overall. 

Wednesday, February 3,1993 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
had 38 saves for the Flames, 

NOTICES  LOST: One girls "Kubisaki H.s.· class ring with mens neck  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $600+/week in canneries or  CONGA DRUM W/ STAND $60 CALL 271 -1938  DESPERATELY NEED 1 Duke Tik Stu or GA  COUNSELORS: CAMP EMERSON, coed, Massachusetts. Swimming,  
chain. Lost during the snowball  $4000+/month on fishing boats.  Hey! I Dropped WAR, LAW, &  Call Leigh x2912  tennis, land/water sports,  
TYPING 287-4082  fight most likely in South Quad.  Free transportation! Room &  ETHICS.  Buy my books &  arts/crafts, archery, theatre,  
Huge sentimental value!  Board! Over 8000 openings. No  packet cheap! Call Melinda @  woodworking, rocketry,  
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-2342 NO Ave & Howard  REWARD. Please call Ryan @ X1691.  experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call 1-206-545-4155  2170 SEPARATE STEREO  DESPERATELY SEEKING 1, 2, or 3 NO vs. DUKE GA tickets. PLEASE HELP!I!!II!II!  computer, yearbook, photography, administrative, more! Super kids, great food,  
Lost-•• KITE**, still in  ext. A5584  COMPONENTS: AMP.,  Call ALISA @3196.  friendly, fun! No general  
package. Sat. night between  TUNER, TAPE DECK AND  counselors. (BOO) 955-CAMP.  
50,000,000  02 and Walsh. Great personal  BABYSITIER WANTED,  EQUILIZER(good condition)  Need Duke & Kentucky tickets.  
value! x1951  MUST SPEAK SOME  $150.00  CALL271 1443  Will pay $$$. Call (708)835­ 
SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT SALE!  JAPANESE. PREFER IF HAVE OWN AUTO. CALL MICHIKO 289-1108 AFTER 7 PM.  I  TICKETS  2208 Desperately seeking basketball  I need a ride to Indianapolis this weekend , will pay for gas. Call Katie x2724 Thanks.  
Lowest prices, best trips ­100% guaranteed! Cancun. Jamaica, & Florida packages still available from America's  LOST DURING FINALS .... BLACK JVC HI-FI HEADPHONES. PLEASE  Student Painters is interested in hiring highly motivated students to manage their own  Help! I need NO/Ken. tix. call Emily x5245  tickets for the NO vs. Duke basketball game. Please call Kerri at x2764.  M.T.-With or without you...  
student travel leader. Travel  RETURN.  I'LL CUT YOUR  bus. we offer management  I  I NEED DUKE TICKETS!  which one is it?  
free ­organize a small group. Call STS@ (800) 648-4849.  HEAD OFF IF I SEE YOU WEARING THEM. CALL 4-1748  training, credit backing, and a full support staff earning pot. $8,000. join the most  NEED 2 KENTUCKY GA'S CALL JEANNE X2645  CALL DAVE X1 045 *&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&**  Headin' to McD's, BK, PJ's? Not!  
ROCK DRUMMER NEEDED  successful painting co. in  Try a cheaper study break at  
ASAP FOR NO BAND WI  Indiana call 1-800-543-3792  I need 2 tickets for the NO­ SUBWAY  
ALREADY SET GIGS. CALL  LOST: Green wind breaker at  ask for Tom Smith.  Kentucky Basketball game.  
JOE X3695  Campus View on Saturday, Jan  6" meatball-only $1.69  
**SENIORS**  22. It has yellow trim and my name sewn in it. Please call 634-3447 if you have it.  I need a ride to the PITISBURGH AREA for spring break. If you are  I desperately need 3 DUKE tix!! Please help!! Julie X-2993  Please call Cameron at 634­1723 ......  6" cold cut combo-only $1.49 plus daily footlong specials!!!  
FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA  going to or through this area,  
please call LUANN at X4792.  &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&  SA 23 & IRONWOOD  
Senior Bar  I will share gas and tolls.  277-7744  
TODAY  LOST-gold bracelet w/heart  NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY  
7:00-9:00  shaped links on 01/27.  If  800-777-0675 EXT 275  NDE #25 Silver Anniversary !I  
$1 cover  found please call Annette  Do you need a ride to Miami of  NEED DUKE TIX  Let's go Team!  
at x2644.  Oh this weekend? call todd  
BULLS VS KNICKS  1195  For two Duke tickets, I will  
LOTIERY AT SENIOR BAR  sing a song for you.  To L.L. Cool C ...have a good  
TONIGHT 8:00  L..-_W_AN_T_E_o____.ll  FOR RENT  Call Aileen X4292  Kerri the Hummer  day ... and say hi to your uncle!  
@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  x2764  
**SENIORS**  SUMMER JOBS II Camp  We need MANY, MANY  Meep, meep.  Hi Jeanne!  
Birchwood & Gunflint  ARE YOU INTERESTED IN  Duke Tix, both GAs and  
FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA  Wilderness Camp, 2 of  STUD.  
Minnesota's finest summer  SUBLETIING FOR THE  Please help us by calling  need 1 duke stu sean x1 067  xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo  
TONIGHT  youth camps, seek college  289-5563.  
7:00-9:00 senior bar  students to work as counselors and instructors. Employment  SUMMER AT CASTLE  I need 1 duke stud. call x3000.  PERSONAL  Roses are cliched ... Violets are chez...  
$1 cover  June 8th to Aug. 13th. On  POINT IN A 2-BEDROOM  Buy a PW carnation ...  
campus Mon. Feb. 8th,  and KNOW what is says II  
BULLS-KNICKS LOTIERY  Madeleva Hall, SMC. For an  APARTMENT??  Does ANYONE have Duke  Adoption:  
$1  application contact the  student tix or GA's??? Call  Doctor and teacher will make  
DRAWING TONIGHT 8:00  Counseling & Career Development Center, LeMans  for more info Call Angela or Laurie 4-2729  Kelly@ 2384  dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best  PW Charity Carnation Sale at the Dining Halls  
senior bar  Hall.  Need Kentucky Tix  of the city; summers by the  
@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud.  beach:yourbabyrockedto  
SENIOR DATING GAME applications available at the  3 BEDROOM HOUSE  Call Ryan X3596  sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in  Red= I love you Pink=l like you  
Senior Class Office and Wed at  SUMMER JOBS  $490 MONTH + $300 DEP.  summer. Art, music, the best  White= I want to know you  
Senior bar  SECURITY SYSTEM  I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS  education, endless love.  better  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  232-3616  MARY  X2862  Yellow=Friendship  
CHICAGO SCAVENGER  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS'  Call Franny or Stephen collect.  Green=????  
HUNT/JPW ESCAPE  CAMPS  BED 'N BREAKFAST  Needed:  (212)369-2597.  
Fri. Feb. 19 $5  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  One Kentucky Ticket Call Sue X2494  Friday dinner  
Bus leaves 6:15  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Monday lunch and dinner  
returns by 3:00  CALL 1-800-786-8373.  FURNISHED HOMES  ***AWESOME SPRING  Tuesday lunch  
Tickets at LaFortune  EXCELLENT  I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student  BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE  
ILOST & FOUND I  Adoption-Active,  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  tix for Kentucky -Brian x1 069 I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR  INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH  $1/carnation & we deliver to ND/SMC!II  
KENTUCKY  GAME!  KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST  Great for Valentines day and  
Found:  Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and  FOR SALE  CALL MEG -X3884  $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM  cheaper than any florist around...  
Between Cavanaugh and Zahm this weekend, a gold bracelet. Call 634-1530 to describe. Ask  Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628.  Style on a student budget. '85  I need 4 Marquette tix (students or GAs). The game  CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $47911-800-678-6386.  xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo  
for Steve.  Audi $3600 or best offer. 271­ is WED. Feb. 17. Call Rebecca  
0523. Leave message.  at x4121.  

Wednesday, February 3,1993 The Observer page 11 
Dominique Wilkins breaks Atlanta's career scoring mark 
RICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) -Gerald Patrick Ewing had 16 points and 13 Wilkins scored a season-high 28 points rebounds for New York, which is 18-4 at and stopped Golden State's last-gasp home this season. Ellison and Grant rally with a jumper late in the fourth finished with 18 points apiece for quarter as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat Washington, now 3-18 on the road. the Warriors 100-90 Tuesday night. 
Cleveland sent the Warriors to their Atlanta 116 seventh straight road loss and their lOth Seattle 109 in 12 games overall. The Cavaliers have won eight of their last nine home games, ATLANTA (AP) -Dominique Wilkins 
including four in a row. scored 34 points and became the Hawks' Sarunas Marciulionis led the Warriors career scoring leader Tuesday night as with 20 points. Atlanta beat Seattle 118-109. 
Wilkins increased his career total to New York 105 20,885 points, breaking the franchise Washington 100 record of 20,880 set by Bob Pettit from 1954-1965 when the Hawks were in St. 
NEW YORK (AP) -John Starks awoke Louis. a sleeping New York offense with 11 of Mookie Blaylock added 19 points and his 28 points in the final 5:05, giving the 11 assists and Kevin Willis had 15 points Knicks a 105-100 victory over the and 16 rebounds as Atlanta won its third Washington Bullets on Tuesday night. straight and lOth out of 14. 
The Bullets, who have lost eight of nine Shawn Kemp had a career-high 35 games, got a season-high 29 points from points and 15 rebounds for the Buck Johnson, who hit 13 of 17 shots SuperSonics, who lost for the fourth time and led Washington back from a 16-in five games. The Hawks have beaten point deficit in the second half. the Sonics 10 of the last 11 meetings in 
Anthony Mason scored 17 points and The Omni. 

~~~~~~~---------------------------­
Crowley leads Saint Mary's basketball sPoRTssRIEFs 
Sports Writer Crowley. three-point range. The Belles were in a 16-point "Things were falling for me in 
The Saint Mary's basketball hole with 13 minutes left in the first half," said Crowley. "It team came back from a 16 regulation. Nine minutes later, took a real team effort to come point deficit to win 89-85 in the game was tied at 65. The back from a 16 point deficit." overtime Tuesday at Bethel score was tied at 73 at the end College. of regulation play. Taubenheim was not far be­
hind Crowley with 27 points. 
Surging ahead 16-8 in the Starters Liz Vernasco and Snyder and Kim Holmes also first four minutes, the Belles Jenny Taubenheim fouled out helped out with 14 points each. lost their lead to end the half right before overtime and Anne trailing 39-34. Mulcahey and Lori Gaddis "It was a hard fought yet 
picked up the slack off the friendly battle," said Coach 
Saint Mary's came out after bench. Julie Snyder carried the Marv Wood. "It felt good that halftime abandoning their zone Belles in overtime, with 6 points the Belles came back." and trying a man to man press. and 6 rebounds. 
"We finally pulled it together But it was Crowley's night The Belles will play Grace and played tough defense after with the buckets. She led the College on Thursday night at we changed from zone to man Belles with 29 points last night 7:00 at Angela Athletic Facility. 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions 
Managing Editor 
pplicants should have strong management and 
· nterpersonal skills, a solid base of Macintosh computer nowledge, basic journalistic and editorial skills and 
some newspaper production experience. Any full-time ndergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or aint Mary's is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
ny sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame 
or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is 
encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong 
· n terpersonal and organizational skills and a basic nderstanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, February 5, 1993 at 5 p.m. For more information about these positions, call Managing Editor John Rock at 631-4541 or Business Manager Rich Riley at 631-5313. 

Last Call! Study Abroad Last Call! 
Saint Mary's Semester Around the World Open to all ND/SMC Students 16 Semester Credits (3 sociology, 3 history, 3 economics, 3 religion, 4 arts) applicable towards college core, appropriate majors or as electives at ND or SMC. Classes in Madras, India. Extensive Travel: Japan, China, HongKong, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, India, Nepal. Optional travel (air ticket included) in many cities of Eastern/Western Europe. Cost: Regular ND/SMC tuition, room and board for a semester, plus a reasonable surcharge. For Information/Application: Dr. C. Pullapilly, Madeleva 336, Saint Mary's Campus phones: 284-4468/44 7 4( office) 2 72-0889(home) INFORMATION MEETING TONIGHT 7:00p.m. 303 Haggar, SMC 


Morshead leads young Irish 
~ 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Notre Dame freshman Jaime Morshead tangles with a Michigan opponent earlier this season. 
Irish hockey hopes growing pains will pay off 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
With an 6-18-2 record in the Central Collegiate Hockey Asso­ciation, the Notre Dame hockey team has endured some rough times throughout this season. However, the team has played nine freshmen on a regular ba­sis and the future looks bright for Notre Dame hockey. 
One of those freshmen is Jamie Morshead, a 5-l0 left wing from Toronto. 
"Our team has excellent co­hesion, and we get along real well off the ice," Morshead said about the youthful squad. 
On a team that lacks scoring power. Morshead has con­tributed 10 goals and dished out 10 assists. 
"We can count on him to go hard every shift, and he's helped us in the scoring de­partment," said Irish head coach Ric Schafer. 
Morshead describes his 



reduce reuse recycle 


playing style as aggressive and says he loves to work the corners of the rink. 
"I try my best to fulfill my role and score goals," he added. 
Morshead, who played 3 years of junior hockey for the Thornhill Thunderbirds in On­tario, says that college hockey is a lot faster. 
"It's been a big jump because everyone's level of play is stronger," he explained. 
As a member of the Thun­derbirds last season, the 21 year-old Morshead scored 31 goals and collected 41 assists while earning first-team all-star honors for the second consecu­tive year. 
"My freshman year playing hockey hasn't been as big of a deal for me because junior hockey gave me a jump on the competition," Morshead said . 
"His age gives him a definite advantage and it shows," Schafer added. 
Morshead, who was recruited by CCI-lA rivals Michigan, Michigan St. and Ohio State, chose Notre Dame because of the academies and their grow­ing commitment to hockey. 
''I've enjoyed getting to know all the players and gaining new friends in the classroom," he commented. 
Notre Dame has been close in several of its losses this season, but moral victories are not enough for this team. 
"We can't be happy being close and we must expect to win because it's not going to get any easier," Morshead said. 
Over Christmas break, when the Irish won five of seven games, he noticed that the players' attitudes changed. He attributed this to their realiza­tion they could win. 
"I'm going to do whatever it takes and there will be a huge turnaround in Irish hockey be­cause we'll have more experi­ence in the future," said Mor­shead. 
In.... THE CUSHWA CENTER
c:! FOR THE STUDY OF 
...., I FAMERICAN CATHOLICISM U presents 

1 RACE' AND TWENTIETH CENTURY CATHOLIC CULTURE 
Professor John McGreevy University of Valparaiso Thursday, February 4, 1993 4:15p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
University of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, February 3,1993 
StartlineM -CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES • FREE ARST ORDER OF When you write 8 checks or less CHECKS Standard design 

• 
NO MINIMUM BALANCE • PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES 

• 
FREE INSTANT CASH ATMACCESS 


Come to expect the best. 

NORWEST BANKS 


South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. 

© 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 


The Sandpiper...Beacon "Your Vacation Host on the Gulf Coast" 650' Gulf Beach Frontage 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools 1 Enclosed Heated Pool Kitchens with Microwaves Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasailing Volleyball Tiki Beach Bar Make Your Spring Break Reservations Now! 1-R00-488-8R28 17403 Front Beach Roaa • Panama City Beach, Florida 32413  

.:::~JPThe Castle & Co. Is Your New Wolf Tanning Center oPEN\NG featuring: • New Wolf Tann1ng BedsSPEC\~L~ • Fac1al TannersUn\\mi\ed lannmg • Luxunous, Clean Pnvate for' Month Rooms • Stereo & Body Cool1ng W1th Every Lounge. s35 272-0312 TheCastle aSt. Rd. 23 & Ironwood Suite1A Closed Monday Plenty of parking  


At ]Jcloitte & Touche, our mission is to consistently exceed the expectations o/our clients and our people. For !''>u, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So u hy not join a firm that will exceed your expectations? Pleasl' stop by and see us. February 4, 1993-In/ormation Meeting /or Summer Internships, 7:30p.m. -9:30p.m. in the Monogram Room. 
February 5, 1993-Summer Internship Interviewing. Internship opportunities available nationally /or both Audit and Tax.  Deloitte & Touche  
Contact Donna K. Weaver at (312) 946-3607  
or Mark M. Chain at (203) 761-3334 ,fyou  

have any questions. Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We L i s ten • We D e 11 • v e r . 
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International 
Deloitte {; T otu.:he is an equal opyorlunity firm. 'X1e recruit, employ, train, compensate, ami promote 
witbout rcg'anlto rncc, creed, ~olor, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrt.~levant handicaps. 
-~--­

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 3,1993 
HIGH SCHOOL PROSPECTS WHO HAVE VERBALLY COMMITTED 
• 
Bert Berry, 6-4, 230, OLB, Humble (TX) HS 

• 
Cikai Champion, 5-11 , 170, WR, Tyler (TX) HS 

• 
Chris Clevinger, 6-7, 255,0T/DT, Wichita (KS) HS 

• 
Melvin Dansby, 6-3, 240, LB, Ensley (Birm., AL) HS 

• 
Mike Doughty, 6-7, 270, OT, Lakeville (MN) HS 

• 
Marc Edwards, 6-1, 225, FB, Norwood (Cinn., OH) HS 

• 
Robert Farmer, 6-1, 195, RB, Bolingbrook (IL) HS 

• 
Brian Ford, 6-4, 190, P, Cathedral (Ind., IN) HS 

• 
Ron Hardin, 6-2, 227, FB, Trinity (Louisville, KY) HS 


• Rick Kaczenski, 6-5, 240, TE, Cathedral Prep (Erie, PA) HS 
• 
Jeff Kilburg, 6-4, 245, DT, Maine So. (Park Ridge, IL) HS 

• 
Randy Kinder, 6-1 , 205, TB, East Lansing (MI) HS 

• 
Thomas Krug, 6-5, 215, QB, Los Gatos (CA) HS 


• Chris Kurpeikis, 6-7, 295, OT, Central Cath. (Pitt., PA) HS 
• Ron Powlus, 6-3, 210, QB, Berwick (PA) HS 
• Brian Perry, 6-0, 205, RB/DB, Avon Park (FL) HS 
• Darnell Smith, 6-5, 240, OLB, Homestead (Mequon, WI)HS 
• Anthony Swinney, 5-11, 180, DB/QB, No. Little Rock (AR) HS 
• Kinnon Tatum, 6-0, 185, DB, Byrd (Fayetteville, NC) HS 

Wolverines hold off MSU, Seton Hall bombs Friars 

EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­Chris Webber had 22 points and 11 rebounds as Michigan extended Michigan State's home losing streak to four games with a 73-69 victory Tuesday night. 
The seventh-ranked Wolver­ines (17 -3, 6-2 Big Ten) never trailed in the game, but they also never led by more than 10 against the 25th-ranked Spar­tans (11-6, 3-5). 
Three times in the second half the Spartans closed the deficit to three points, but they missed 13 of 23 free throws, shot only 39 percent and were outre­bounded 44-37. 
Eric Snow, who had a career­high 18 points for Michigan State, scored six points in an early second-half burst that closed the gap to .42-39 with 
15:43 left. Kris Weshinskey had five of his 15 points in another spurt that narrowed the margin to 53-50 with 8:33 remaining, and Mike Peplowski scored five of his 15 in a run that made it 60-57 with 5:14 to play. 
But after each Michigan State run, the Wolverines rallied. Juwan Howard had 16 points 
Bonnies 
continued from page 16 
plays." 
St. Bonaventure's defense also exploited an all too familiar Irish weakness-turnovers. 
"We had some miscues on passes, and we weren't able to 
··~ptttt~t~ 
:BARBER SHOP : 
.HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 • • SAT 8:00-3:00 •
I. 2112 South Bend Avenue • 
• Appointments if desired • 272-6722 •
i 
Serving tfu 'J{ptrt. 'Da.rru community for over 30 years •

........... 
APPLICATIONS for FRESHMAN ORIENTATION and TRANSFER ORIENTATION COMMISSIONERS and GENERAL COMMITTEES ARE NOW AVAILABLE FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
FORMS SHOULD BE RETURNED BY FRIDAY FEBRUARY 5 
INTERVIEWS WILL BE CONDUCTED ON WEDNESDAY 2/10 and THURSDAY 2/11 
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR WOULD' LIKE MORE INFORMATION. PLEASE CALL STU· DENT GOVERNMENT AT 631·7668, OR STOP BY 203 LAFORTUNE 
and 12 rebounds and J a len Rose added 15 points. The Wolverines, who were upset at Iowa on Sunday, shot 46 per­cent and hit 16 of 26 free throws. 
No. 12 Florida State 92 Jacksonville 77 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (A_P) ­Doug Edwards scored 23 points and Bob Sura led a 17-3 run early in the second half as No. 12 Florida State overcame a slow start Tuesday night to beat Jacksonville 92-77. 
The Seminoles, playing with­out injured point guard Charlie Ward, fell behind 22-7 before finally getting on track. Sura scored the last four points of the opening half and the first eight of the second-half surge that carried Florida State from a two-point halftime deficit to a 58-46lead. 
Sura finished with 21 points and Derrick Carroll added 18 in a reserve role for Florida State (15-6). Sam Cassell, forced back into point-guard role he had when Ward was quarterbacking 
sustain anything tonight," MacLeod commented. "But, St. Bonaventure did a great job. They had us well scouted. Every move we made, they knew." 
But, the bottom line was the Bonnie defense forcing the Notre Dame into 23 turnovers and countless bad shots. 
"We had a lot of stupid 

the Seminoles football team in December, had 17 points, six assists and eight steals. 
Ward suffered a shoulder sep­aration in Sunday's victory over Georgia Tech and will be side­lined a minimum of two weeks. The Seminoles are 6-1 with the two-sport star in the lineup, 9-5 without him. 
No. 14 Seton Hall 90 Providence 71 
turnovers and we took a lot of stupid shots," Hoover ex­pounded. "We can't continue to do that if we expect to win games." 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Terry Dehere broke out of a shooting slump with a season­high 29 points and No. 14 Seton Hall ended a three-game losing streak with a 90-71 victory over Providence on Tuesday night. 
The win was the 11th straight Big East Conference home vic­tory for Seton Hall (16-5, 6-3) and it marked the Friars' (9-8, 2-7) 20th conference road loss in 23 games. 




STUDENTS! 
Wednesday Is 
This Is The Only Thing You'll Need 

to Have A Good Time!! 
adies $2 WI Student ID 1150 Mishawaka Ave. 288-0285 

Ill 



::E: 
.... 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1993-94 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 
•


Today 


-----.. -J 
BILL WATTERSON 




• 
,.. 
c 
1111 


... 

Sports 
.. 
.. 
page 16 
JONATHAN JENSEN t • 

1---G-am_e_Po_i_nt___:-.,-:--_l-_, h~ •
.... _ 
Another bad loss leaves fans wondering why 
Detroit Mercy ... Butler... Dayton... Xavier ... the list goes on and on. 
And as of last night's debacle at the JACC, you can add the St. Bonaventure Bonnies to the illustrious list of also­rans who have taken down our Irish in the past two seasons. 
Now I consider myself to be one of the biggest Irish hoop fans on campus, having only missed one game in two years, but anyone with a pulse can see there is something awry here. 
Despite the lack of overall talent on the squad, something else must be missing. 
Oh, wait-you say you just found out about the loss? You were at the 'Brare catching up on some reading? 
Well, you're not alone. I don't mind students or South Bend residents buying season tickets just for the big games-just don't try to call yourself a fan. 
As for the other missing ingredient, I just can't put my finger on it. 
Maybe it's a lack of motivation, unity, talent, or the fact we shot 31% last night, call it what you want, but someone has to put an end to these embarrassments. I think one of the few problmns with MacLeod's Irish is our propensity to play no better than the teams we face. 
And if the Irish continue to play to the level of their competition, they may scare some powerhouses but will never be respected as a big-time college basketball program. 
Bad losses caneel out big wins during NCAA tournament qualification time, and the same holds true when you don't stand a ehance of getting in. 
I respect Coach MacLeod as much as anyone. and the job he has done the past two years has been quite extraordinary, but I hope he and the Irish arc able to win the easy ones be­fore our school and the program becomes the laughingstock of collegiate basketball. 
We may uphold ethical standards, graduate great players and citizens, and just generally give it our all, but losses like thnse are extremely hard to stomach-as a sehool. as a basketball program, as a fan. Maybe our expectations are too high, but I just enjoy rooting for and generally expecting a big win or two and an enjoyable season every year. 
I lind myself defending our team all the time. sticking up for our schedule and our athletes every chance I get. llownver, no one can defend losses like these. 
Many have suggested a switch into a conference, like the Great Midwest or the MCC, I would just be worried that without those games against Duke, North Carolina, and UCLA our season would lose meaning. 
l hope I can someday eat my words. 
,, 
,. .. 
r· 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior Kevin McDougal will be in the middle of the quarterback competition next season. 
Irish come up just short again 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Five seconds remaining on the clock, the Irish are down by three points. A three-pointer goes up and falls just short. Notre Dame's men's basketball team (8­
10) loses another close one, but this was one they were supposed to win. 
Unranked St. Bonaventure (1 0-7) upset the Irish, 64-61, last night at the Joyce ACC. The Bonnies used a 17-3 run and stingy zone defense in the second half to shut down the cold-shooting and miscue-plagued Irish. 
"We made some changes in our defense we thought would upset them. We tried to always contain Monty Williams and we knew Hoover would also be a factor," said St. Bonaventure coach and former Irish assistant coach Jim Baron. "I felt it was a total team effort. Even the bench was extremely supportive. I couldn't be happier with our team." 
Notre Dame made a run for the win in the last 4 7 seconds of the contest with Billy Taylor hitting a jumper to pull the Irish within two at 60-58. After the timeout. a Carl Cozen foul put Bonnie high scorer David Vanterpool (27 points, 9 rebounds) on the line for a pair of free throws which he made. 
With the Irish down by four, Monty Williams nailed a three-pointer to bring the Irish as close as they would come. Vanterpool's two free throws were the winning margin for the Bunnies after Jason Williams' final shot went long. 
St. Bonaventure was ready for the tight finish and had practiced the final second defense in preparation for the game. 
"We felt we wanted to go man and make it real difficult to get a shot off," 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..:. said Baron. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

IIMorShead leads Jrish hockey see page 
IISkl team looks to rebound seepage 1g 


St. Bonaventure surprises Irish 
Sloppy play which led to a total of 49 turnovers (23 for ND, 26 for SB) and a low shooting percentage (.346) set the tone of the game for the Irish. "We had a lot of good opportunities, but again we struggled with shooting. They changed defenses. They had us thoroughly scouted," said MacLeod. "We weren't able to sustain anything. It seemed like everytime we began to do something-if we made twos back to back we couldn't make the third one." 
Wednesday, February 3,1993 






Notre Dame quarterback question already heating up 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Now that high school star Ron Powlus has chosen Notre Dame, the Fighting Irish have their quarterback of the future. Right? 
Paul Failla isn't so sure. Failla, a former star at North Allegheny High School in suburban Pittsburgh, will contend with Powlus and senior­to-be Kevin McDougal for 

Notre Dame's starting job 
Failla 
next fall. 
Failla said those who think the heavily recruited Powlus will automatically step into the lineup underestimate the intri­cacies of Notre Dame's system -and the competition at quarterback. 
"He's got a great career ahead of him ... in a couple of years," Failla said. 
Even a quarterback as good Rick Mirer, who just completed his senior season, couldn't make the Notre Dame lineup as a freshman, Failla said. 
"It took me more than a half-season to get adjusted here," Failla said. "Rick always got most of the reps (in practice), plus they were putting new stuff in all the time. Rick sat behind (Tony) Rice his freshman year. Things had to evolve for him, too." 
Failla knows this spring will be an 
Verbal commitments p.14 

Important one lor h1m m h1s looihall career. A junior to be, he is considered a potential early-round draft pick in base­ball but won't skip spring football practice. If there are conflicts between football and baseball, football will be his first priority. 
Failla wasn't disappointed when Notre Dame signed Powlus, an almost unanimous pick as the nation's top high school player. Powlus passed for 35 touchdowns and ran for 21 for Pennsylvania Class AAA champion Berwick. 
"(Notre Dame) brings in all-Americans all the time," Failla said. "We need them. They're the future of the team. He's the future of the team. Guys like him coming in are part of the territory." 

St. Bonaventure's Harry Moore (00) and Jeff Quackenbush (40) battle Monty Williams and Joe Ross for a rebound. 
St. Bonaventure's defense frustrates struggling Irish shooters 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
Frustration . That's the word to describe the mood at the Joyce ACC after last night's Irish loss. 
Throughout the contest the Irish offense never seemed to get in sync, as the Bonnies' 2-3 zone defense stymied Notre Dame. 
"We had problems with the zone. Our spacing was incorrect," Irish coach John MacLeod commented. "They kept changing their looks, and we couldn't hit from the outside." 
"They came out with the zone and it shook us up a little bit," Irish captain Brooks Boyer said. 
Most of the night the Irish tried to shoot over the zone, but it did not work. Though Notre Dame had open shots, it could not connect. The Irish hit on only 7 of 21 three-point attempts, including a 4 for 16 performance in the second half. 
"We weren't confused by their defense, we just didn't knock down our shots," point guard Ryan Hoover explained. 
In addition to their outside shooting problems, the Irish transition game was slowed to a halt by St. Bonaventure. 
"It was obvious that they wanted to play ball-control offense," MacLeod said. "They took the run away from us and we became tentative." 
This is exactly what the Bonnies wanted to do. 
"We made some changes in our defense that we thought would upset them," Bonnies' coach Jim Baron noted. "We executed in the end, switched around our defenses, ran the clock and ran our 
see BONNIES/page 14 




