------------------------------------------------------------------------------.-------------------------------------------.--~----.---.----.~ 
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 92 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
President plans speech to ask Americans for sacrifice 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton will give his first televised address to the nation Monday night, promoting an economic program that top ad­ministration officials said Sunday would ask for sacrifices from all Americans. 
The administration said the president's plan would propose close to 150 specific spending cuts to save money, while a top Democrat in Congress said that the middle class would be most affected by a new broadbased tax on energy. 
The White House confirmed that in its effort to control the deficit, it was considering limits on the payments received by doctors and hospitals under Medicare, the giant government program that supplies health 
Journalists give lecture tonight 
Special to The Observer 
Donald Barlett and James Steele. authors of the critically acclaimed bestseller "America: What Went Wrong?" will give a lecture Monday at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Audito­rium. 
Barlett and Steele, investiga­tive reporters for the Philadel­phia Inquirer. will speak on "America: What Went Wrong? The Authors' Answer." 
The two reporters, who won Pulitzer Prizes in 1975 and 1989 for national reporting, have worked together since 1971 on in-depth journalistic projects. 
In 1990 Washington Journalism Review called them "almost certainly the best team in the history of investigative reporting." 
Barlett and Steele specialize in resParching, analyzing and writing series of reports on complex issues and institutions that aiTect American life. 
They have probed such subjects as the Internal Revenue Service, foreign aid, the criminal court system, federal housing programs, the energy crisis and nuclear waste. 
The two reporters have re­ceived virtually every major journalism award and are the only newspaper team to earn honors for local, national and foreign reporting. 
"America: What Went Wrong?" an examination of the reasons behind the decline of America's middle class, is Bar­lett and Steele's third book. It spent eight months on The New York Times bestseller list. Almost 500,000 copies are cur­rently in print. 
The lecture, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by the department of American studies, the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, the Center for Social Concerns, Scholastic magazine and Notre Dame student government. 
nounced that Clinton would ad­dress the nation from the Oval Office at 9 p.m. EST Monday. Officials said Clinton would speak for only 10 minutes and would not reveal any specifics of the package that he will unveil Wednesday night in a joint address to Congress. 
George Stephanopoulos, Clin­ton's chief spokesman, said the president would tell the Ameri­can people, "We're all in this to­gether. Everybody is going to be asked to do their fair share." 
Several Republicans said Sun­day that they believed the administration was going overboard on tax increases and promised stiff opposition to the program unless more was done to cut spending. 
Clinton campaigned on a 
The Observer/Sue Kehias 
Collegiate competition 
Senior Ali Burns flips through the latest edition of U.S. News and World Report. Listed as the top three colleges in the America are Harvard University, Princeton University, and Yale University, respectively. This year Notre Dame was not in their listing of the top 25 universities, but placed at number 36. 
pledge to cut incomes taxes for the middle class while raising taxes on the wealthy. In addition, he promised to cut the budget deficit in half by 1997 while significantly increasing government investment in highway construction, worker retraining and education. 
However, administration offi­cials now concede that the mid­dle class tax cut will be sacrificed because of soaring deficit estimates and instead the middle class will be asked to pay higher taxes in the form of a new energy tax. 
Stephanopoulos said that the administration planned to take the fight to the special interests, saying at one point the adminis­
see ECONOMY/ page 4 



Debates reach quarterfinals 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
The quarterfinal rounds of 
the Iceberg Debates will begin 
tonight as the top eight teams 
of the tournament debate 
whether health care profes­
sionals should be prohibited 
from assisting terminally ill pa­
tients in self-administered sui­
cide. 

These rounds will be power­
matched, with the-highest 
ranked teams competing 
against the lowest ranked 
teams, according to chairper­
son Amy Listerman. In the 
preliminary rounds, teams 
were paired randomly, and the 
teams with the best records 
advanced to the quarterfinal 
rounds. 
The debates have gone 
smoothly so far, Listerman 
said, despite that they had to 
add a tiebreaker round to de­
termine the seventh and eighth 
seeds for the quarterfinals. 
Morrissey defeated Pangborn 
and Alumni B defeated Keenan 
in Thursday night's debate­
off's, defending the positive po­
sition on the resolution that 
Notre Dame should recognize 
pro-choice student groups. 
Tonight's quarterfinal rounds 
will have three judges instead 
of two to prevent ties from oc­
curring, Listerman added. The 
winning teams will advance to 
the semifinals on Wednesday 
night. 
Top-seeded Breen Phillips 
will face Alumni B, and second­
see DEBATES/ page 4 

care for 35 million elderly and disabled Americans. 
Officials said that Clinton was still making final decisions on the outlines of the huge package. But based on a variety 
• Tax Plan/ page 5 

of comments, the economic plan was shaping up to be the largest deficit-cutting package in history, proposing about $250 billion in spending cuts over five years and what one Republican said would be $250 billion in tax increases over that same time period. 
White House officials conceded Sunday that virtually every American would be asked to contribute to the plan, either through benefit cuts or higher taxes. 


President Clinton 
"I am not going to tell you that this package is going to exclude anybody," White House budget director Leon Panetta said on CBS's "Face the Nation." 
As part of a stepped-up sales effort, the administration an-

Wilkinson announces future goals of her administration 
By PATRICE MILLER Governance will have more News Writer funds available, allowing more flexibility to work on the other 
An increased student activity goals, Wilkinson said. fee, another laser printer and But she warned, "Everything stairmasters for Angela Athletic is not going to happen this year. Center are the future goals of "It's going to be a lot of work MaryBeth Wilkinson, the Saint before we're there." Mary's student body president­elect. Wilkinson is concerned with 
The first issue that her students making the most of the administration will address is facilities Saint Mary's has to of­the increase in the student fer, such as Dalloway's Coffee activity fee. If the activity fee is House and Haggar College Cen­
increased, the Board of ter. She hopes to attract stu­dents to use these features by 
arranging for prominent female 
speakers  to  come  to  the  
campus, she added.  
A long  term  goal  of her  

administration is increasing Dalloway's popularity with the student body, said Wilkinson. The plans for Dalloway's include renovations, allowing student workers to participate in the work-study financial aid program and launching a publicity campaign to attract more entertainers and bigger audiences. 
The goals for Haggar include poetry readings and offering more interaction on an informal level between the students and professors. Wilkinson hopes to promote cultural and social activities that will encourage students to use the facilities that are available to them, she said. 
Another goal is the investiga­tion of the discrepancy between the departments concerning the advanced W's and the Senior Comprehensives, she continued. 
page 2 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Even the lonely 
• 


can enJOY Valentine's Day 

Some strange things have happened this past week. 
A young Moslem pulled off the first transatlantic hijacking in 16 years, holding an entire 


Lufthansa plane of 
Paul Pearson 

passengers and crew at 
bay with a starter's Associate News Editor pistol. Wilbur, the Spelunker -------­cartoon rodent, supposedly got around 30 votes in the student government runoff, but they weren't counted because the powers that be decided only to count the votes for the officially registered rodents. The head coach of the University of California basketball team landed the top recruit in the country and upset UClA, and was rewarded for this by being fired. And then, of course, there was Valentine's Day. I have never been entirely fond of February 14, a day set aside for romance, chocolate, flowers and the color red. In fact, I sometimes think that only ones who like the day even less than me are the millions of roses who are senselessly slaughtered each February. It's funny that the world is full of animal rights activists, but devoid of roses rights activists. It's not that I have something against the concept of romance. Hopefully, any of my several past SYR dates will be able to testify on my behalf. It's just that it is quite normal for me to get more Heismans than valentines. Little slips of paper that say "Be mine" are niee and colorful, and make a nice decoration for my desk. But they don't make up for being blown off. strung along and/or ignored. I suspect that there are some readers out there who know what I'm talking about. There are many ways to vent Valentine's Day frustrations. Sixty-four years ago in Chicago, members of AI Capone's gang gunned down seven rival gangsters. I haven't gone to that extreme yet. This year, I decided to rebel against the cheesiness of the day by putting together a Valentine's Day Request List From Hell, as seen in last Friday's Observer valentines. The list was for those songs that said, "This whole love thing needs to be seriously rethought." I thought I would find one or two fellow desperate souls to suggest songs for the list. At least 15 people called. It was very reassuring that so many people out there felt the same way. If I was the only person who disliked Feb. 14, I would be morose. But I'm not alone in my loneliness. I compare my situation to the Police song "Message in a Bottle." In the song, Sting sings about an lonely island castaway who puts an SOS message in a bottle and throws it into the sea. One morning, he finds a million bottles from fellow castaways have washed up on the shore. "Seems I'm not alone in being alone," he says. That's how I feel. I may be lonely on Valentine's Day. but I'm not the only one. That, at least. can get me through the day. And on to a better holiday, St. Patrick's Day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
Lab Tech:  
Production:  Pat McHugh  
Cyn  
Melis  Systems:  
Melissa C. Halloran  
News:  The Czar  
Alicia Reale  
Becky Barnes  Accent:  
Kenya Johnson  Sarah Doran  
Sports:  Viepolnt:  
Jonathan Jensen  Nora Buckley  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Not Available for February 12 
Harbor, killing 260 crew members. 
•In 
1933: President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt escaped an assassination attempt in Miami. 

• 
In 1965: Canada's new flag, with its maple-leaf design, was unfurled in ceremonies in Ottawa. 

• 
In 1989: The Soviet Union announced that the last of its troops had left Afghanistan, after more than nine years of military intervention. 



Platt will take specimens with parts of the whole project," said 
WASHINGTON (AP) -NASA wrecked crew cabin became 
im from other turtles that he Platt. 
released photos Sunday of the public documents after they space shuttle Challenger's were released to New York
WE'RE PUTniiO DRUBS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
smashed crew cabin, after they artist Ben Sarao on Feb. 3. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 

were made public by a New Sarao had submitted a Free­York man who sued under the dom of Information Act request federal Freedom of Information for the pictures in 1990. It was Act. denied, appealed and then be­The space agency said 45 pho­came the subject of a federal tos which show debris from the lawsuit against the National 
trs o Notre Dome fact that Ice hockey has been played at Notre Dome on one level or the other since 1920, when It was granted varsity status by the schoofs Athletic 
Deportment. The team's first coach and captain was Paul Costner, o star quorterbOck on. . Coach Knute Rockne's powerful gridiron squad. 

WI~ A TVIV T() lAS V~f3AS li l)ay-s --4 ~lllllb Prize Trip Includes Air Fare & Hotel Accomodations 
r --------,
Any I >ay-:\ny Time : 14" Large I i-tTxlra-Large-l
1 Cheese Pizza : 1 Extra Cheddar 1
: $579 : 
1 <:heese Pizza 1 L ·~h!::.:' 1~11~)!!!~)~··.:..! I.J 

: $695 : 
L'::!~~::;~~(!!,,~~_:,~·~l.J

Fi\:7ilvt><">l71>~ Tt~rurZl 
: 2 Small ChC(~SC: 
1 Pizzas 1 
NOffiE DAr.£ STUDENTS CAll:

: $599 : 

DOMINO'S PIZZA 1835 South Bend Ave.



r--------, 
271-0300

1 Free 1 
SAINT MARrS ST~NTS CAli:
I Breadsticks I 
I . t I 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 1S 1al!l purchase 1 
I Wit l any I 
816 Portage 
289-0033

L--------.J 
II 
"lllllcl et P"r11ciP"t1ng stores onty Not valid wr!tlany other o"er Customer p11 s sales tax whme eppl•ceble Delli!& erees hm~&d to ensure safe driVIng Drovers cerry less than $:20 ~ Drivers ere 
, not nell zed Ia< lllte delrver le~ No cash value. 
Club Column 
FEBRUARY 15, 1993 
1) All clubs, budgeting and registration packets are available and are due March 3. They've been put into your mailboxes on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. Social service groups now have mailboxes outside the CCC Office (206 LaFortune). If you did not receive a packet, stop by the CCC office during the posted office hours. Questions, call the Club Coordination Council @ 631-4078 or Jennifer Blanchet @ 634-4975. Remember to check your mailboxes. 
2) Last day to access all club funds is April 15, plan accordingly See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 
3) Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will hold a meeting on 
Tues., Feb. 16, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Notre Dame Room. Elections for officers will be discussed. 
4) Asian American Association will hold a General Meeting on Feb. 16 at 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Also, those inter­ested in running for office must attend this meeting. Please prepare something to say about yourself. Elections will be held the week of Feb. 21. Note: Co-Presidents must run as a duo. 
5) The Notre Dame Accounting Association presents Leon Broughton, CPA, Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), "Internal Audit," Tues. Feb. 16, room 222 Hayes-Healy. Pizza and refreshments will served. All accounting majors welcome. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
Aeronautics and Space 
Administration. The lawsuit 
was settled earlier this month. 
Sarao released the photos to 
The New York Times, which 
published one of them Sunday. 
The photos "are far fewer 
than what he had originally re­
quested," said NASA 
spokesman Jeff Vincent. 
The pictures were taken after 
the crew cabin was recovered 
from the Atlantic Ocean in 
1986. 

All seven astronauts aboard 
the Challenger, including New 
Hampshire schoolteacher 
Christa McAuliffe, were killed 
when the shuttle exploded 
shortly after takeoff on Jan. 28, 
1986. It crashed into the sea off 
Cape Canaveral, Fla. 
"NASA screened the photos very carefully to ensure that the privacy interests of the Chal­-Ienger families would be pro­
tected," Vincent said. 
The families were consulted 
throughout the process and 
none of the astronauts' 
personal effects are shown in 
the photos, according to 
Vincent. 
The pictures include parts of an airlock the astronauts passed through for depressurization, parts of the rear wall of the crew cabin and a window frame from the shuttle, Vmcent said. 
GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
• 

Friday, February 19-Sunday, February 21 
7:00 p.m. Noon 
A tilne of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Crowe House, on the shore of Lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre Dame. 
Deadline: l<eservations for the twelve available places will be accepted until Wednesday, February 17. 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 
or Sharon at foischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost: $15.00 for the cost of meals <md snacks. 


~----~--.-..~~----~----------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer 
Ready, aim, fire 

The guys gather together in a Dillon room to take a study break. Sega Genesis and Nintendo are surprisingly popular on the Notre Dame campus. 


Tyson lawyer to argue for appeal 
INDIANAPOLIS (APJ -Mike Tyson should get a new trial be­cause a judge blocked testimony from witnesses challenging the truthfulness of the woman who accused him of rape, his lawyer plans to tell Indiana appeals judges on Monday. 
Tyson, 26, was convieted Feb. 10, 1992, after beauty contestant Desiree Washington of Coventry. H.l., told jurors he raped her six months earlier in his Indianapolis hotel room. 
The former heavyweight box­ing champion is serving a six­year prison sentence at the Indiana Youth Center. 
"After all this is talked about, people are now up in the air about what went on in that room," says Tyson's appeals lawyer Alan Dershowitz. "We want a new trial. In a new trial, 
Mike  Tyson  would  be  
acquitted."  
Written arguments filed  ear­ 

lier with the Indiana Court of 

Economy 
continued from page 1 
tration was "going after the doctors and hospitals" because they were to blame for health earn costs spiraling out of eon­trot. 
While insisting that Clinton was still making final decisions, he and Panetta indicated that thn administration was considering limiting payments to doetors and hospitals in the Medican~ program. Neither Appeals lay out the strategy both sides will follow in oral arguments before a three-judge panel. 


Tyson's defense team discov­ered at mid-trial three witnesses who say they watched Tyson and Washington embracing in his limousine outside the hotel, before the attack. 
Their story would have con­tradicted Washington's testi­mony that she and the boxer 
would address a New York Times report that such a plan would save $35 billion or more over four years. 
"We've got to confront the is­sue of health care costs in the budget," said Panetta, noting that Medicare and Medicaid, which provides health care for poor people, represent half of the projected growth in the gov­ernment's deficit in coming years. 
In an interview on NBC's "Meet the Press," Stephanopou­los said that in addition to the Oval Office speech and Wednes-
The Sandpiper--Beacon 
"Your Vacation Host on the Gulf Coast" 
650' Gulf Beach Frontage 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools 1 Enclosed Heated Pool Kitchens with Microwaves Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasailing Volleyball Tiki Beach Bar Make Your Spring Break Reservations Now! 
1-R00-488-8R28 

17403 Front Beach Roaa•Panama City Beach, Florida 32413 
never touched each other in the car after she rebuffed an initial kiss. 
Jurors might have rejected her story of rape had they heard the challenge to an "essential point" of Washington's testimony, Dershowitz writes in Tyson's appeal. 
Trial judge Patr-icia Gifford of the Marion Superior Court kept the witnesses off the stand, ruling in part they came forward too late. 
The state, led on appeal by Lawrence Reuben, chief deputy attorney general, says the witnesses' testimony would have been incorrect. 
None can identify Washington because the passionate scene the witnesses say they watched occurred the night before the rape, when Tyson escorted singer Angela Boyd, whose stage name is B Angie B, back to the hotel, the state says. 
day's 9 p.m. EST address to Congress, Clinton also was con­sidering returning to Capitol Hill Thursday morning for a televised question-and-answer session with lawmakers. 
He said that the president would propose close to 150 spe­cific spending reductions in his economic package, while Panetta said that proposals to eliminate unnecessary 






ST. EDWARD'S 
II A L L F U H l" l\1 
ANGELA BORELLI 
ASSISTANT PROFESSIONAL SPECIALIST 
IRIS OUTLAW 
DIRECTOR, MINORITY AFFAIRS 
ROLAND SMITH 
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT 
SPEAK ON 
"DOES RACISM EXIST AT NOTRE DAME?" 
Tuesday, February 16 7:00P.M. at St. Edward's Hall 

Monday, February 15, 1993 

Nine Vanderbilt students hurt in fire at university 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (API ­Nine Vanderbilt University stu­dents were injured Sunday morning in a fire that erupted while they were removing paint from statues outside a fraternity house, university officials said. 
One of the students, Hobert Tidwell, 19, Atlanta, was in critical but stable condition at Vanderbilt University Medical Center suffering from burns, hospital spokesman Lee Poston said Sunday. 
Tidwell's injuries were not be­lieved to be life-threatening, said Steve Caldwell, Vanderbilt's associate dean of students. 
Four other students were listed in fair condition with burns at Vanderbilt, Poston said. They were identified as Mark Burgett, 19, Buffalo Grove, Ill.; Curt "Chip" Lemkau, 20, Short Hills, N.J.; Molly Moore, 18, Houston; and Eric Johnson, 20, Milwaukee. 
Tlw remaining four students were treated for burns and rn­leased from Vanderbilt, Poston 
said. Authorities identified the four as Andrew Joiner and Nancy Dorough of Atlanta, David Romanelli of Encino, Calif., and Chris Elston of Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Caldwell said the students were injured about midnight during a social event at Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Appar­ently the students were attempting to remove pain from lion statues outside th fraternity house when the pain remover they were usin ignited and began to bur uncontrollably, he said. 
Caldwell said the can of remover also may have i 


Organizers: More gangs interested in peace summi 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­Gangs from around the country have expressed interest in tak­ing part this spring in a national peace conference for street gangs, an organizer said Sunday. 
Gang leaders from Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Min­neapolis met earlier this month in Washington, D.C., to pledge peace and announce the national gathering scheduled for April 30-May 2 in Kansas City. 
Organizers have been meeting with gang leaders from several cities who want to join the sum­mit, Carl Upchurch, the sum­mit's chief organizer, said after a weekend planning session 
programs and streamline government services would save $34 billion over the next four years. 
The administration has said it would seek to boost the top in­come tax rate for Americans making more than $200,000 per year to 36 percent, up from 31 percent, and propose a surtax on millionaires. 
here. Upchurch is director 
the Council for Urban Pe and Justice in Granville, Ohio. 
News of the summit w greeted with skepticism by lice, said Sgt. Hardie Smith, ordinator of the Police ment's street gang task force. 
The violence often associ with the gangs represented the Washington meeting Crips, Bloods, Different Nation Vice Lords and Disciples of -were enough to mak Kansas City police wary of th conference. 
But Upchurch said will address any concerns at an open when the conference opens. 


Debates 
continued from page 1 
seeded Sorin will face Morris­sey tonight in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune at 7 and 8 
p.m. At the same times, St. Ed's will face Stanford and Zahm will face Badin in the Foster Hoom of LaFortune. 

1992·93 Season 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
THE 
HEIDI 


CHRONICLES 
by Wenqy 
\fasserstein 
1 
1 

A serious comedY directed bv Rt~ginalcl Bain 
:·. ···~. : .;· .·. '·.:' . . 
Washington Hall . Reserved scats: $7 
Wedm~sday, Frbraatl 24'\ 8: I o p.m. Thursday.J,ebruary 25 • 8: I 0 p.m. Friday, F~bruary 26 .. 8: I 0 p.m. Saturday~ l•'t,b~ry 27 .. H: 1 0 p.m. Sunda~', Ft~raary 28 • 3: I 0 p.m. 
Student and senior cjtiz~dtso(}uuts areavailahlc Wednesday, Thursday and SundaY;; ' ... . r~ dVu.ilahle at the LaFortune Ticket Orticc. Master~ orders call: 6:l 1-B 12B. 

--------------------------~ 
page 5 

Monday, February 15, 1993 The Observer 
Voters thought Clinton would raise taxes 
ing Americans to accept higher from him, it will have to give
WASHINGTON (AP) -All 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

taxes and other unpopular re­first.
through the presidential cam­
his powers of persuasion," said sults of the collision between his
paign, the voters kept this little 
Democratic pollster Geoffrey lofty campaign ·promises and Clinton prefers to call it
secret: No matter how much 
Garin. "l don't think there is sobering budget realities. change, not sacrifice. "Change
Bill Clinton insisted otherwise, 
any question that people will means asking everyone to pull
they were convinced he would 
grumble and groan all the way He must also juggle his in­his or her own weight for the
raise taxes on just about 
through this. The bet Bill tense desire to be liked, and to common good," he said Satur­
everyone. 
Clinton is making is that the expand his support beyond the day.
But don't expect them to like it 
steps he takes now will pay off 43 percent that voted for him,
when President Clinton unveils­
in a better economy and a with the unpopular medicine In theory, the public embraces
his economic plan Wednesday 
better America by the time needed to make his package a that concept: poll after poll
and proves them right, testing 
voters have to decide whether long-term success. And the shows a majority of Americans 
his relationship with the Ameri­
to have him back for four more president who as a candidate say they would pay more if it
can public at an early 
years." rarely discussed pain and sacri­meant better schools,
crossroads of his presidency. 
Clinton's challenge in the coin­fice must now convince the pub­affordable health care and a
"The next few weeks will be a 
ing weeks goes beyond convinc-lic that to get what it wants dwindling deficit. 
test of Clinton's leadership and 
Eastern Serbs block food convoy in Eastern Bosnia 
200,000 people trapped in at the airport outside the in 1991 after Croatia seceded
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegov­
besieged capital. from Yugoslavia. The latest
na (AP) -Bosnian Serbs pockets in the east. urned back a U.N. convoy Officials in Sarajevo, Bosnia's Fighting also raged in south­combat was the first since a g food and medicine on capital, and Tuzla are blocking western Croatia, and Serb and truce took effect early last year. 
unday to a Muslim town in further aid to their residents to Croat leaders in that former Yu­The 10 trucks in the U.N. con­
.astern Bosnia that has been protest the failure to get goslav republic repeated 
urrounded by Serbs for 10 supplies to the east. U.N. competing claims to territory as voy to eastern Bosnia tried to 
officials have criticized that they prepared for talks at the reach Cerska, which reportedly United Nations this week. is a refuge for up to 40,000
move for intensifying public anger aimed at U.N. operations The Croatian army began an Slavic Muslims. The convoy leftief agencies facing mounting 
and warned that stored food offensive on Jan. 22 to regain Belgrade, capital of Yugoslavia 
tility from leaders and citi­control of at least some of the and Serbia, on Sunday morning 
of Bosnia's Muslim com­could spoil. 
Serb-held Krajina region in the and got only as far as Serb-heldunity who say not enough is For the second day, heavy 
eing done to stop the fighting around Sarajevo pre­southwest, one of the areas Zvornik on Bosnia's border with vented aid flights from landing seized by Serb forces in fighting Serbia.
public's civil war, or to help 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AN ACCOUNT FOR OVER $400,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. 
THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
•STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 

•STUDENT 
UNION BOARD 

•
HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

•CLUBS 
AND ORGANIZATIONS 


THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR BECOMING THE S1UDJEN11RODY 1JRJEASUJRJER THE FOLLOWING YEAR. 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT GOVERNMENT
' 

2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 8:00AM-5:00PM; DUE ON FRIDAY, FEBRU·ARY 19 AT 4:00PM. 

QUESTIONS, CALL 631-7417 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J~ 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX "om $fD9 
5 ana 7 NIGHTS DAYTONA BEACH, FL "om$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL ,om$ 81 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOA~ CO "om$129 
2, S AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND, TX ,,om SfJ2 
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC ••om $f2f 
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK, CO ,,om$299
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

•91•c:. 

PRICES FOR STAY-i; NOT PER NIGHT! "' 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION &RESERVATIONS 
t·800·!2t·59tt 
page 6 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1993 

I 
I 
r 
f 
l t 
I 
t t 
I 
l 
I l l 
I ~ 
I 

BAL HARBOUR, Fla. (AP) ­Organized labor thinks it has a friend in the Oval Office after 12 years of Republican rule, but the new relationship has yet to be tested on issues such as health care reform and trade, which mean the most to labor. 
"We're going to have our dis­agreements," said George J. Kourpias, president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. "But we had disagreements before. At least now we know somebody is going to be listening." 
Kourpias and other labor offi­cials said in interviews that although they foresee friction with the Clinton administration on some important issues, the Democrats' return to the White House can only be welcome news. 

"He's going to be a friend of labor-100 or 1,000 times the friend that the previous two presidents were," said Robert Carson, executive secretary of the Hawkeye Labor Council, an AFL-CIO body representing about 100 local unions in seven Iowa counties. 
"We want somebody who is going to have sympathy for our concerns. I think we have that here," said Albert Shanker, 
Panels advise government at $150 mil. /year 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Every how and then, a government needs a little advice, a little out­side help solving simple vexa­tions or understanding tangled issues that could affect every American. 
Where to turn? 
To any one of 1,141 panels and commissions that exist sim­ply to offer guidance to Washington. Like the National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice or the Census Advisory Committee on the American Indian and Alaska Native Populations for the 1990 Census. 
President Clinton thinks there are too many -he says they've "spread across this government like kudzu" -and he wants to eliminate at least one-third of 

the 700 federal panels not created by law. 
On the very day that he pro­posed the cuts, five panels were meeting around tOWI) on issues ranging from high-definition television to AIDS research. 
Some of the panels are high­profile, like the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports (headed by movie he­man Arnold Schwarzenegger). Others have more obscure functions, like the FDA's Board of Tea Experts (they've watched out for inferior imported tea for 96 years). 
"There are some advisory committees that do some very important work," said Paul Light, professor of public affairs at the University of Minnesota's Humphrey Institute. 
Plan to Attend a Lecture 
America: What Went Wrong?­
The Authors Answer 
by 
Donald L. Barlett 
and 
James B. Steele 

February 15, 1993 7 P.M. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Barlotl llld Steele ore Pulitzer Prize winning reporters lor the Philadelphia Inquirer and authors of America: Whal Wenl Wrong? a New York Times best-selling book lor over 30 weeks. 
"lhrltll and Slcclt hnt Incisively •nd vhldl) ddintd the problem r•cing lht n•tion, aDd proved a1afn that the~ fs an audience ror a m~ssace lhat cannot be capluredby a 10und bite, • photo opportunity, or e"en a bumptr sticker." 
A reception will follow their lecture in the Center for Social Concerns 
The vlall Ia aponaored by the OePJirtment of A.merlcan Studln, Center tor Social Concerna, the Hesburgh Program In Public Service, the Schol•stlc, and Student Government. 
Bush's private life is now low profile 
HOUSTON (AP) -Life as a private citizen has given George Bush a chance to get out of the limelight and do something else impossible while living in the White House -pick up his own takeout lunch. 
"He didn't give us a warning," said Fannie Coleman, who works at Otto's Barbecue. "We'd been looking for him to come by soon. We're always glad to see him when he comes." 
When Bush showed up earlier this month to pick up a "half order of links, half beef. beans and a Diet Coke," he came with only two other men, Ms. Cole­man said. 
Bush has followed his plan to keep a low profile, granting no interviews and just one photo opportunity since coming to Texas after President Clinton's inauguration on Jan. 20. 
Tourists cruise through his president of the American Fed­
new neighborhood eager for a eration of Teachers. 
glimpse of the home he and Labor unions figure they need some sympathy after the Reagan and Bush years. The Republican administrations 
generally sided with those who argued that unions had too much power in the workplace and that the federal government should try to 
Anyone intereste
reduce unions' ability to limit hiring to union members. Relations with the Clinton administration will be a 
in running for principal topic of discussion at AFL-CIO's executive council meeting this week in Bal Harbour. 
Finance 
Club Office 
must turn in ticket by this Wednesday. 
Questions: Amy x4899 or Suzanne x4900 
HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTMTIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 
Monday, February 15, 1993 The Observer 
Experts: Video blurs reality 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The videotape that shows police pummeling Rodney King will again be on center stage in the officers' federal civil rights trial, but some experts worry that en­hancements of the footage could blur reality. 
FBI technicians have digitally enhanced and slowed down the tape, stabilizing its picture and increasing its volume in an effort to give jurors a clearer picture of the March 3, 1991, incident. 
But some said the manipula­tions could do something differ­ent. 
"What they're seeing is not what happened," said Brian Stonehill, who coordinates 
media studies at Pomona Deadly riots broke out in Los College. "What's happening Angeles last spring after jurors here is that jurors are relying who saw the tape acquitted the on a tape that distorts the four of most charges after a event." state trial. 
The videotape, shot by an amateur cameraman, shocked Other experts echoed Stone­the nation when it was hill's concern that the enhanced broadcast on television. It videotape could change the way shows the black motorist on the jurors perceive its images. ground as the white officers repeatedly kick him and hit him "Slow motion can make an with batons. event look quite different," said 
Patricia Greenfield, who 
Sgt. Stacey Koon, Officers teaches psychology at the Theodore Briseno and Laurence University of California, Los Powell and former Officer Ti­Angeles. ''I'd be very suspicious mothy Wind face charges of vio­about making a judgment of lating King's civil rights. Jury anyone's intention based on selection in the trial began Feb. something I saw in slow 
3. motion." 
Lower thresholds proposed for DUI test 

Many state lawmakers are drunken driving laws,-enacted pondering social arithmetic in at a clip of about 150 a year be­the latest round of legislative tween 1982 and 1990. assaults on an old menace, the The years of new legislation, drunken driver. combined with education pro-
Bills introduced this year in 31 grams, have changed attitudes states reflect a push for more and driving behavior to help cut deterrents and stricter punish-the carnage blamed on alcohol. ment for intoxicated drivers. In 1982, alcohol accounted for 
The most common proposal is 57.2 percent of the 43,945 lowering the intoxication level traffic fatalities. Last year, from 0.10 percent blood-alcohol drinking played a part in 46 to 0.08 percent-about a one-percent of the 39,500-road drink difference. Another popu-deaths, according to National lar cause is tighter penalties on Highway Traffic Safety young drunken drivers. Administration estimates. 
"It's reached a point where Washington state Sen. Adam most of the states have Smith has proposed a bill to let sanctions they consider drivers who drink know that reasonable and effective," said drunken driving doesn't merit Jeanne Mejeur, a policy analyst any second chances. at the National Conference of "We want to tell them: If you State Legislatures in Denver. get arrested you'll lose your li­
"They're saying 'We've done cense. If you're convicted, you'll what we can without impinging lose your license plates," he on people's rights. Now what said. "And if you're convicted can we do to get the problem again, you'll lose your car." drinker off the road?' " she The standard for legal intoxi­said. cation in 45 states, 0.10 blood-
State criminal code books are alcohol, translates for a 160­filled with fairly new anti-pound man into five drinks 
r----~w-openr----, 
I I 

FREE 

I Regular 6" BLIMPIE Sub Sandwich with 1 the purchase of any Sub Sandwich with I equal or greater value. 
I P!ease present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per visit. I Customer must pay any sales tax due. Not good in combination with any other offer. Cash value 1/100 of 1¢. Offer expires 3/31/93. 
~~------~----------------~ 
I at I Martin's I Ironwood Plaza North I S.R. 23 & Ironwood 
(219) 273-2234

I 
Fax: (219) 273-2445

I 
I 
L------~---------~ 
within an hour on an empty stomach. 
More than a dozen states may lower the legal definition of drunkenness -Pennsylvania from 0.10 blood-alcohol to 0.07, and 13 others from 0.10 to 
0.08. Among the five states already set at 0.08 is Oregon, where a bill proposes lowering it to 0.04. 
While body size, metabolism and alcohol tolerance make it misleading to say how many drinks produce a 0.08 blood-al­cohol level, research shows that level impairs anyone's judgment and reflexes, said Jim Fell, a science advisor at the federal highway safety agency in Washington. 
Taking another tack, bills. in six states target drinking drivers under 21, threatening yearlong license suspension and community service if their blood-alcohol is 0.02 -which results from about one drink ­or, in Indiana, 0.01. 

page 7 


RADNOR, Pa. (AP) -Dana Carvey won't succeed David Letterman when he leaves "Late Night" this summer, an NBC executive says. 
Carvey, the "Saturday Night Live" comedian, was mentioned as a possible replacement for the talk show host, who is moving to CBS. 
"There will be no Dana Car­vey," Don Ohlmeyer, the new head of NBC's West Coast operations, told TV Guide magazine for its Feb. 20 issue. 
But NBC is "very close" to finding someone else, Ohlmeyer said. 
Ohlmeyer has contacted sports host Bob Costas, "Tonight Show" host Jay Leno and Johnny Carson about 
succeeding Letterman,  TV  
Guide reported.  
Letterman  has  said  he  

thought Dennis Miller would be a good replacement. 
~~Resolved, that health care professionals should not be prohibited from assisting terminally ill patients in self-administered suicide.~~ 
The first dorm listed will be defending the affirmative position. 
QUARTERFINALS 

Alumni ~ v. ~reen -~nillip~ Notre Dame Room/7:00PM ~orin v. Morri~~ey Notre Dame Room/ 8:00 PM ~t. rd~ v. ~tanford foster Room, 7:00 PM lanm v. ~odin Foster Room, 8:00 P~~ 

page 8 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1993 
Deere teams with Mayo Clinic 
MOLINE, Ill. (AP) -In a the level of participation." Hammes said. sparkling new building, The company says 4,000 of its employees of the world's 33,000 area employees, retirees Both partners want to see if leading maker of farm and dependents have joined the medical costs can be controlled machinery are lining up to see clinic. by physicians following disease four new doctors at a company Deere hopes the new management strategies clinic created in cooperation approach will slow increases in developed by Mayo and Deere with one of the nation's top its medical costs, which rose under a company grant. medical centers. from $20 million in 1971 to 
Deere & Co. teamed with the $220 million in 1992. "Some call it cookbook Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., Eventually, Deere hopes to medicine and say every patient to establish the facility where attract about 15,000 patients, a is different," said clinic director, the goal is to cut company prospect that doesn't thrill area Dr. Richard Bartsh. "It's not a health care spending while doctors who are losing longtime cookbook. We're simply preserving high-quality patients. removing question marks by treatment. "We're left with fewer good­applying as many disease 
The prestige of the Mayo paying patients. And, as a management strategies as we name helped convince many result, we won't be able to see can. Every physician wants to Deere employees to abandon as many patients who don't practice good medicine, and their family doctors, officials have the ability to pay," said Dr. this will help." said. James Bull, a family physician 
Opened in January, the state­in Silvis. Deere spokesman Bob Combs of-the-art clinic has its own lab said numerous companies have and drive-up pharmacy. Minor Deere plans to build a second called seeking information on surgeries are performed. It clinic near a factory complex in the clinic. already is considered a success Waterloo, Iowa, and may in attracting patients. expand its clinics' services to Retiree Bob Holland, a former 
"We signed up 13 percent of other area companies. factm::y inspector, is generally
Musical talent 
the eligible population," said pleased with the treatment he's 
Morrissey freshman Mike Rimbert performed at Morrissey Unplugged 
Michael Hammes, president of "Clearly Deere is in this as a received since the clinic opened 
on Saturday night. Many musical artists from Morrissey and a few other 
John Deere Family Health Plan. business, and we're looking at Jan. 4, but he encountered 
dorms played sets of songs on the guitar. 
"We were almost astounded at the commercial possibilities," some problems. 
Hoosier writes first encyclopedia of black women's history 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Shirley job as an Indianapolis Public Herd said. "I said to her: 'You're a black was "The Black Women of the Herd has worked for 15 years Schools teacher and became an Hine, now the John Hannah woman aren't you? And you're Middlewest Project," a multime­to find a place in history books amateur historian. professor of American History a historian aren't you? And you dia effort to document the lives for the contributions made by With other members of the at Michigan State University, can't put those things together of black women in Indiana and black women. Indianapolis section of the said she remembers Herd's and write a history of black Illinois. 
Her work pays off this month council, she began researching determination and her own women?"' Herd said. Hine then with the unveiling of "Black the history of black women in reluctance to take on the agreed to join her. In 1984, Purdue hosted a Women in America: An Histori­Indiana. project. The two collaborated first on conference which brought to­cal Encyclopedia." The book, "I went to every historical so­"Shirley Herd called me up "When the Truth Is Told: A His­gether professional historians released by Carlson Publishing ciety and every library; I read and said, 'I want you to write tory of Black Women's Culture and the women gathering of New York, is believed to be every black newspaper and met this history of black women in and Community in Indiana, historical documents. Oral and the first encyclopedia of its hundreds of women who told Indiana.' I thought she was 1875-1950," a 90-page book video histories were made of kind. me their stories," she says. crazy," Hine said. "I explained published by the Indianapolis older Hoosier women and a 
"I want this encyclopedia in In 1980, Herd called Darlene to her that that wasn't the way Section of the National Council comprehensive resource guide the hands of children and I Clark Hine, who was then a his­that historians worked. That of Negro Women. was published. want them to know their tory professor at Purdue Uni­she should not call up a legacy," she said. versity, to help her interpret her historian and order a book the But Hine's interest in the ex­As a result of the project, sev­
Herd, 54, began her project in volumes of research. way you go to Wendy's and periences of black women con­eral thousands of photographs, 1977 when she attended a It didn't matter to Herd that order a hamburger." tinued to grow and so did the scrapbooks, church documents meeting of the National Council Hine's black history research Herd recalled being confused work of more than 1,000 female and records were turned over of Negro Women in Washington, rarely included the lives of by Hine's response. She said she non-historians from across Indi­to the Indiana Historical Society 
D.C. The delegates talked about black women. didn't understand how a black ana who were looking for their and historical associations establishing a museum of black "I called her and told her what woman historian could turn own roots. throughout Indiana and Illinois women's history. needed to be done and I wasn't down the chance to write her to become part of their collec­
Herd returned home, quit her going to take no for an answer," own history. Hine's and Herd's next project tions. 
Woman fights for place in Swiss cabinet 
FRIENDS DON'T LET 
GENEVA (AP) -Christiane may be a bit too far left for Brunner, one of 38 women in Brunner is out to break .the the many SWiss. Parliament, has represented 
FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
male monopoly in Switzerland's "This candidate unsettles Geneva since 1991 after being governing body, and she won't political foes and can let allegations that she had an apparently trigger irrational for 10 years. A self-declared.
involved in the canton's politics.!;;;;;;;;;;:;::::~=======~.

illegal abortion stand in her fears in some men's heads," the feminist, 
she has promised to way. Zurich daily Tages-Anzeiger 
Many politicians are wary of said. ment and cites First L Brunner, 46, a straight-talking Hillary Rodham Clinton as leader of Swiss watchmakers "I would not be so brash and role model. and critic of Switzerland's cheeky if I were her," said Lis­army, a· cherished symbol of beth Fehr, a conservative law-She grew up poor, divorc national unity. maker, referring to Brunner's her first husband, raised 
But Brunner says she wants to relatively short experience in first son alone and recently re­"free women from the rigid di-national government. married· vision of roles" in this long-r--------------------------­standing democracy where women couldn't vote before 1971. 
VILLAGE ALANDING
Iler style clashes with that of the typical staid aspirant to the Federal Council, the seven­member body governing 
SUNDAY BRUNCH
Switzerland. Her politics also 
10 a.m. -2 p.m. 
Omelettes Made to Order 
SIMPLE MEN
Belgian Waffles each 
FINE LINE FEATURES. ZENITH wAMERICAN PlAYHOUSE THEATRICAL FILMI-•TRUE FICTION ~GURE '~FILM FOUR INTERNATIONAL •••HAL HARTLEY IIMPtE MEN .ROBERT BURKE WilliAM IAGE KAREN ~UAS EUNA LOWENIOHN
Peel & Eat Shrimp 
$2 OFF person in 
MARTIN DONOVAN JOHN MACKAY ..:;:tMIKE SPillER -=:DAN OUEllETTE !:JEROME BROWNSTEIN 1BRUCE WEill 
Prime Rib 
IRI -• j -HAL HARTLEY I TED HOPE ~HAL HARTLEY ' F l
--::..-:=::=-, e~tn,_ ..,..,_llll_..,.. F~:~u~~:
your party 

Beverage Included 
~re ~s~ 
Loaded Weapon I 

South Bend Premiere! One Night Only! 
52565 US 33 N. at Darden Road 
1:15,3:15,5:15.7:30, 10:00 


The Vanishing 
Morris Civic Auditorium
1:30. 4:30. 7:00, 9:30 

North Village Mall 
Ground Hog Day 
Sunday, February 21 8:00PM 
2:00. 5:00. 7:15, 9:45 
Tickets: $5 at the door or in advance at the 

272..8180 expires 2/21/93 
LaFortune -8128 
Just-published Hal Hartley screen plays are on sa/eat the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Hal will be happy to sign your copy at the reception following the screening. 

Monday, February 15, 1993 The Observer page 9 
Devout communists buy into capitalism 
VOLGOGRAD, Russia (AP)­Lenin stared down from a fresco as Viktor Perchin, who fought at Stalingrad, filled out the forms and became the first worker to own a share in the tractor factory where he has worked for 39 years. 
How did Perchin, wounded defending communism in World War II, feel about being a pi­oneer of Russian capitalism? 
''I'm a member of the Com­munist Party! I never left it!" Perchin said at a privatization gala in this Volga River city, formerly Stalingrad, that for two generations was the Communist Party's shining symbol of victory over fascism. "I want to live under socialism and I want my grandchildren to live under socialism!" Perchin declared as local government officials looked on aghast. 
He said he was using his pri­vatization voucher, along with those of 11 relatives, to buy shares so it the factory "will be­long to the people that work there!" 
Perchin and others of his gen­eration are reluctant travelers on Russia's road from communism to capitalism. Many like him do not realize that buying stock in their own factories digs the grave of state ownership. 
The tractor factory is the city's largest plant, with 26,000 workers. It was one of eight businesses offered for public sale last week in Volgograd, 560 miles southeast of Moscow. 
Others included a margarine and mayonnaise plant with 85 workers and a clothing factory that has 786 employees. 
Privatization vouchers are pil­lars of President Boris Yeltsin's campaign to put state-owned business into private hands. All Russians are entitled to vouchers and 96 percent have obtained them since Yeltsin introduced the program last year. 
About 700 people filed through the Trade Union Palace at 4 Lenin Street last week to learn how to buy stock with the vouchers, and 200 made their investment decisions, said spokesman Dmitry Belqusov. Thousands more are expected in act in the next few months, when 12 more Volgograd firms are sold. 
For hours, Volgograders quizzed workers from the Rus­sian State Property Committee on how to invest the vouchers. They sought assurances that their tiny slices of the pie would not be worthless when a new bankruptcy law takes effect March 1 and the state curtails subsidies to insolvent firms. 
"We learned a lot, but we won't buy this time around," said Stanislav Prokopenko, an electrician who visited the privatization center with his wife, Olga, an engineer. 
They plan to invest in the ce­ment factory where he works, he said, because "we know that's stable." 
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS 
The 1993 Xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Classes & Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts & Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies & Social Sciences. Session dates: May 17-June 24 &July 6-August 12 call or write: 
X\VIER 

Summer Sessions UNIVERSITY 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207-3120 513/745-4381 
Xaviu University is an academic community commilled to equal opportunity for all persons regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or national origin. 
The Observerff.J. Harris 

Will you be mine? 
A few residents of Dillon gather all the necessities together before greeting their Valentine's. The Dillon Hall Almost Valentine's Day Formal took place on Saturday night at Village Landing. 
Iranian leader: Rushdie must die 
LONDON (AP) -On the fourth anniversary of a death edict against writer Salman Rushdie, Iran's spiritual leader reiterated that the order was irrevocable and called on Muslims to kill him. 
The late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ordered Rushdie's ex­ecution on Feb. 14, 1989, for what many Muslims considered insults to Islam in the novel "The Satanic Verses." 
Rushdie, an Indian-born natu­ralized Briton, immediately went into hiding and has surfaced only occasionally to give speeches in the United States, Britain and Scandinavia. 
rorient~ 
Yourself 
~ ~ 
Tokyo $400* Hons Kons $430* Banskok $485* Slnsaporc $505* Jakarta $615* 

•FIRS In e«hWll'{ from Chicago based on roundtrip purchase. Taxes not induded restrictions ~pply. Call for olher v.orldwide 
desliMtion!., boltl coe Wll'f ll1d I'CUldtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. ~St, sa-1d ftoor Chicago,ll60610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels Magax~ne! 

He has been constantly guarded by British police and shuttled from address to address to elude would-be assassins. 
The British government sev­ered diplomatic ties with Iran over the incident, and govern­ments and writers around the world have urged Tehran to re­scind Khomeini's edict, or "fatwa." 
But Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader, said: "The fatwa on the apostate Salman Rushdie must be imple­mented without a doubt, and it shall be implemented." 
"It is the duty of all Muslims who can reach this mercenary writer today to remove this harmful being from the path of Muslims," Tehran Radio quoted Khamenei as saying at a meet­ing in Tehran of Islamic clergy and students. 
The broadcast was monitored in London. 
An Iranian government char­ity has offered $2 million, plus expenses, for Rushdie's execu­tion. 
The International Rushdie Defense Committee said Satur­day that it would turn to global political forums to try to end the 45-year-old writer's plight. 
Polger, 16, clinches match against Boris Spassky 
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP)­Hungarian teen-age chess dy­namo Judit Polgar, the world's top-ranked woman, clinched victory over former world champion Boris Spassky on Sunday by holding the Russian to a draw in the ninth game of their 10-game series. 
The draw gave the 16-year-old 
5.5 points to Spassky's 3.5, with one game left Tuesday in which Polgar plays white. 
"I feel very pleasant," Polgar told reporters in English at the Budapest hotel, where the match is being played. 
Polgar is the youngest of three chess-playing sisters who have all reached world rankings. 
Spassky told reporters he has "to analyze just what went wrong in the match." Play lasted just over seven hours. 
Spassky, who turned 56 on the eve of the $200,000 match, opened with a King's Indian de­fense and seemed for much of the match to have a chance of winning. 
After queens were exchanged, he even succeeded in gaining a second queen with his "a" pawn. But Polgar, who has played attacking chess through­out the match, outsmarted the veteran with skilful maneuvers of her knights, prompting Spassky to offer a draw after 56 moves. 
FR1ENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 

~-~--~---~.-----~-----------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, February 15, 1993 
Humanae Vitae is a prophetic call to reason and sanity 
whether sex will have any rela­voked the "gag rule" on abor­
When President Clinton re­tion to children. why should 
tion counseling and moved to 
marriage be permanent? If sex allow homosexuals in the mili­
and marriage are not intrinsi­tary, media discussion generally 
cally related to new life, mar­treated those actions as un­
riage loses its reason for per­related issues. In fact, both 
manence. It tends to beeome a 

abortion and "gay rights" are 
te·mporary alliance for individ­
closely related. This 25th an­ual gratification -what Pope 
niversary of Humanae Vitae, Paul called "the juxtaposition of 
Pope Paul VI's 1968 encyclical two solitudes." on birth control, is a fitting oc­• Homosexual aetivity. If sex casion to note of the ways in has no inherent relation to pro­which abortion, the homosexual creation, and if man, rather 
than God, is the arbiter of 
whether and when it will have 
that relation, why not let

Charles E. Rice Freddy marry George and Erica 
Right or Wrong? marry Susan? The contra­
ceptive society cannot say that 
homosexual activity is objec­
tively wrong without condemn­movement and other phe­they manipulate and degrade accustomed people to the idea • In vitro fertilization. Contra­ing itself. Objections to the legit­nomena are manifestations of human sexuality and with it that burdensome lives are not ception is the taking of the uni­

imization of the homosexual

the contraceptive ethic rejected themselves and their married worth living, the way was clear tive without the procreative. In "lifestyle" are reduced, as in theby that encyclical. partner by altering its value of for euthanasia for the aged and vitro fertilization is the reverse. 
military controversy, to the

In llumanae Vitae, Pope Paul total self-giving." the "useless". If man is the ar­Various refinements of this 
pragmatic and the esthetic.

said that the law of God pro­It is a question, therefore, of biter of when life begins, he will technique include the freezing Homosexual activity, like con­hibits "every action which, ei­dominion: who is in charge, predictably make himself the of spare embryos and their traception, also frustrates thether in anticipation of the con­man or God? (In Humanae Vi­arbiter of when life ends. later use for experimentation or 
interpersonal communion

jugal act, or in its accomplish­tae, incidentally, Pope Paul also Euthanasia is postnatal abor­for spare parts for persons in which is intrinsic to the conju­ment, or in the development of explained the legitimacy of tion, as abortion is prenatal need of new organs. The 
gal act. And where that act

its natural consequences, pro­partial abstinence from sexual euthanasia. treatment of human beings as should be open to life, homo­poses, whether as an end or as relations during the woman's • Pornography. Like contra­objects is obvious here. 
sexual activity is a dead end. It a means, to render procreation fertile period, provided that ception, which reduces sexual • Promiscuity. According to rejects life and focuses insteadimpossible." This teaching "is such partial abstinence is prac­relations to an exercise in mu­the natural moral law and the on excrement, which is dead. 

founded upon the inseparable ticed for "serious motives.") tual masturbation, pornography Commandments, sex is reserved connection, willed by God and The general acceptance of the is the separation of sex from life for marriage because sex is In these and other respects.
unable to be broken by man on morality of the act of contracep­and the reduction of sex to an inherently connected with Humanae Vitae is a providentialhis own initiative, between the tion is a major factor in the fol­exercise in self-gratification. procreation and the natural 
and prophetic call to reason 

two meanings of the conjugal lowing developments: Pope Paul, in Humanae Vitae, way to raise children is in a and sanity. At this supposedlyact: the unitive meaning and • Abortion. Contraception is warned that contraception marriage. But if, through con­Catholic university, llumanaethe procreative meaning." the prevention of life while would cause women to be traception, we claim the power Vitae's anniversary ought to in­
abortion is the taking of life. viewed as sex objects, that to decide whether sex will have 
spire a prayerful celebration.

Contraception is wrong be­But both involve the willful sep­"man, growing used to the em­anything to do with procreation, But don't count on it. Anyway,cause, as Pope John Paul II said aration of the unitive and pro­ployment of anti-conceptive why should we have to reserve 
students especially ought to

in Familiaris Consortio in 1981, creative aspects of sex. The practices, may finally lose re­sex for marriage? 
read Humanae Vitae. And share"When couples, by means of contraceptive mentality tends to spect for the woman and, no • Divorce. In the natural it with your theology professor. 

recourse to contraception, sep­require abortion as a backup. longer caring for her physical order, marriage should be He might be surprised. 
arate these two meanings that And many so-called contracep­and psychological equilibrium, permanent because sex is in­God the Creator has inscribed tives are abortifacient in that may come to the point of con­herently related to procreation 
Professor Rice is a member of

in the being of man and woman they cause the destruction of sidering her as a mere instru­and children should be raised in 
the Law School faculty. /lis

and in the dynamism of their the developing human being. ment of selfish enjoyment, and a home with parents perma­
column appears every other

sexual communion. they act as • Euthanasia. Once the con­no longer as his respected and nently married to each other. 
Monday.

arbih1rs of the divine plan and traceptive ethic and abortion beloved companion." But if it is wholly our decision 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'50 WHAT /?0 'tW 
HMM... t&MM& !%&... tf!HO 
PATI&NC&,

THf'3 /'3 A
I'V& N&VCR AC7VAUY KNOWN
54Y,ZONK? 
OOI KNOW IN 7HAT~ 
5/R. H&'5

JOt<&, R/6HT?
ANYReAL--~-I'Ve
C4NYOUH!5lP 
WHO fX) I KNOtf!r TH&R& 
71<YING7V

AlUlt!Y5 [}fi.pfflf?&l? ON 7H& 
RI6HT? Hl3I.LO?
M&CXJT~ 
MlET88SOM!iON6 
BUIW

KJNON&55 CF5TMA/6£RS... 
\ 
5USP&N5e.
ICANCAU...
I 
HMM.., 
I 

'Whatever America hopes to bring to pass in the world must first come to pass in the heart of America.' 
Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Happy President's Day. Submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box a. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631~7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 

Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor..•..••••••••.••..•...David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Colleen Evale . VIewpoint Editor................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631 -4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
r 
l 


l 
I I 

Viewpoint
Monday, February 15, 1993 page 11 
Graduate Student Union 'fails to keep its promises' 
The following is a critique of the work of the Graduate Stu­dent Union over the past ten months. 
There have been rhany fail­ures to follow through on sev­eral worthwhile initiatives, as well as a perversion of how the GSU should work. Some of the blame must be shared by the Graduate Student Council itself, which has been characterized as (partially) apathetic by a number of members. 
However, the bulk of the 
Kurt Mills 
On the Other Hand 
must be placed upon the 
oulders of the top two officers 
the GSU, who have been re­
e for initiating or failing 
act upon the following activi­
and programs. 
To begin with, the president 
nd vice-president ran on a 
ket of "democratization." 
ey wanted to return the GSU 
the Council, from which it 
allegedly been taken. How­
their behavior reflects a 
different agenda. 
For starters, they proposed, 
had accepted, a change to 
constitution which allowed 
four of the officers to vote in 
uncil meetings. In the old 
only the president 

as allowed to vote, in the 
of a tie. According to the 
utes of the Council meeting 
this was discussed. those 
ho spoke in favor of the 
"focused on the impact 
cer commitment should they be denied a vote." In other words, it was suggested that the officers might not have the same motivation to do their jobs without a vote. 
It seems to me that the offi­cers should do their jobs be­cause they want to do some­thing for graduate students, as well as the fact that they are compensated (partially) for their time. · 
In the past, the officers have carried out their duties despite not having a vote. Providing all officers a vote concentrates more power in the hands of the Executive Committee, and in­stead of being a move toward democratization, it is a move away. Of course, the Council acquiesced in this centralizing act, so they must share part of the blame. 
When they campaigned for office, the president and vice­president said that they wanted the Council to vote on all ex­penditures (the old Constitution allowed the Executive Commit­tee to spend up to $1000 with­out Council approval) no matter how small (which is an unnec­essary impediment to the effi­cient use of funds). In practice, this has been done to legitimize their own unilateral actions. 
A case in point is the $450 spent to co-sponsor the per­formance by Dave Lippman last semester. This was certainly a reasonable event to fund, and the Executive Committee had the authority under the old Constitution to authorize the expenditure. However, they came to the Council after the funds were spent and asked for Council approval. 
In fact, the minutes of the meeting seem to indicate that they were asking for prior ap­proval. Instead this was an un­necessary attempt to create an illusion of Council involvement, which, of course, did not actu­ally happen. 
Another one of their election goals was to eliminate what they characterized as unneces­sary expenditures on adminis­tration. They said that the GSU did not exist to provide stipends for graduate students. They thus took several actions. 
First, they eliminated two of­ficer positions before the Con­stitution was amended to allow this. Then, they raised all of the salaries of the remaining four officers. (The president vowed not to take his stipend, but he retained control of it and no­body seems to know what is happening with the money.) This was to compensate them for the extra burdens which they would assume from the eliminated positions. 
However, if one examines the new Constitution, in at least a couple of cases the officers only fulfill these duties until they name someone else to do them. And, here comes the kicker, these people, as well as many others, will be paid for any work they do on committees. 
This policy was implemented because of a periodic failure of graduate students to get in­volved with certain committees and other activities. One won­ders, however, whether they might not have been a little more imaginative in gaining graduate student involvement. 
Instituting a market solution will not necessarily induce the kind of people one might want on committees and organizing events. One council member has described it as opening up the possibility of "mercenary participants," rather than at­tracting people who are actually interested in working for grad­uate student interests. Some members of committees have indicated that they are not doing it for the money (in fact they were involved before this policy was instituted which demonstrates that, while there may be a problem in some in­stances, there are people out there who are interested in working for graduate students without financial gain). and at least one has refused to accept any payment for his or her work on a committee. 
Beyond the issue of whether paying people on committees is reasonable, there is also the is­sue of how much this might cost. The president and vice­president indicated that they wanted to reduce administra­tion costs, however that is ex­actly what these expenditures are. 
In fact, it is far from clear that all of their changes have saved the vast sums of money they promised. For example, the guidelines say that each person (or committee) which organizes a party will be paid $150. There are usually about ten parties per year, so it is possible as much as $1500 might be spent to pay people to organize par­ties. 
In the past, it was the re­sponsibility of the Social Officer with the Social Committee (there have always been a number of people interested in helping out with parties and other social activities in the past) to organize such activities. 
In the past the Social Officer was paid less than $1500. Even if one takes the current stipend level of $1500 for the other offi­cers, the GSU is not saving any money, has lost the continuity and coherence of having a So­cial Officer, and has lost an offi­cer who might contribute to other activities of the Executive Committee. And, this does not factor in the other money which will be spent on organizing other activities. 
The top officers have also generally dropped the ball on a number of occasions or failed to carry out their duties. One trivial, but enlightening, exam­ple concerns the optional $10 graduate student fee. 
At the beginning of the year, each graduate student is charged a mandatory $25 fee and an optional $10 fee. Each graduate student has until Oc­tober 31 to withdraw the op­tional fee, which was not niade mandatory in the past because some Council members felt that this was a way to register a protest with-the GSU. 
It is the responsibility of the president to make sure that all graduate students are made aware of this fact. This did not happen. 
Two initiatives from last year which were not followed up on deserve special attention. First, oyer the course of last year, a plan to renovate Wilson Com­mons to make it more amenable to graduate student use was put together by the Executive Committee in consultation with the Council and the heads of the Law and MBA student organizations. 
Among other things, the pro­posal called for new lighting, new carpeting, a new heating and cooling system, nicer looking interior walls, a real dance floor, a DJ box, meeting rooms, and a small computer center for graduate student use. 
The university administration approved many of the rec­ommendations and stated that they wanted to find the money to start some of the renovations this past summer. The new GSU administration has not followed this up, and thus far no action has been taken to create a real social space for graduate students. 
The second issue concerns hiring a part-time secretary for the GSU. This position would al­low the office to be open longer (the current administration re­duced the number of hours from 10 to 4 per week), provide continuity between administra­tions, and allow the officers to spend time on activities other than general office work. 
Again, the Graduate School and Student Affairs liked the idea and wanted to help us find the money from outside the GSU budget, beginning in the 1993­94 school year. And, again, the administration has not followed up on a proposal which would not cost the GSU anything but which would greatly enhance its operational capabilities. 
The firial point I would like to make demonstrates the atti­tudes that the top officers hold toward their job (even after they were given a vote on the Council). This concerns GSU participation in the annual meeting of the National Asso­ciation of Graduate and Profes­sional Students (NAGPS). 
This is the only forum where Notre Dame graduate students can meet with graduate stu­dents from other universities to share information and partici­pate in lobbying efforts on be­half of graduate students in general. The offices have indicated that no one will be representing Notre Dame at the conference. The responsibility for attending the NAGPS conference and taking care of other NAGPS matters has traditionally fallen on the vice­president, although the president has also attended in the past. This decision not to attend the conference, along with the question regarding whether or not the officers would be motivated without a vote on the Council, indicates, in my opinion, a lack of commitment to the GSU and does not reflect an attitude of service which one might expect from individuals in such positions. 
In short, it is my view that the current GSU administration (with the at least tacit approval of the Graduate Student Council) has failed to live up to its promise of democratization, the president has shown a poor attitude towards his duties, and has failed to engage in the kind of advocacy which graduate students need on this campus. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral candidate in the Department of Government and International Studies, and was president of the GSU last year. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Limiting freedom of speech limits freedom of thought 
Dear Editor: 
In response to The Observer's Feb. 8 Inside Column titled, "There should be limits to free speech," freedom of speech is an obvious hindrance to the af­fiance of positive propaganda "pleasing" to everyone in soci­ety. 
Proclaiming in false news what people want to believe is what makes a country strong in nationalism, and a university in school pride. People have a tendency to rationally think the negative side of affairs, but if they are affirmed by the media that these "negatives" are not true. and often. people believe it. 
The Espionage Act of 1917 evaded constitutional inalien­able rights and exactly what the formers wished to keep from happening. No one can detest the advantages of positive pro­paganda, as experienced in this country during the Vietnam War. 
People want to hear that they and their country are the best, and nothing could be better on the whole planet (except maybe a Marshall Fields in South Bend). 
Every country wants to hear that they are winning the war and everything is going as planned. People have these ex­pectations of the press that can't be filled without offending someone. The press is free to write and speak whatever they choose. Sports Illustrated and the Chicago Tribune brought an awareness to America of this 
tragedy that the Notre Dame Community experienced last January. 
How these individual writers choose it is their constitutional right. That statement may not be acceptable for people whom feel injured by words or speech. However, if the fullness of free speech is strived for, it must also include cynics, realists, idealists, and opportunists. · 
The framers of the constitu­tion had the idea that American people could see things objec­tively and decide for themselves if the content of the writings or speech was good, offensive, or false. There is another assumption the founders took, that is expressed in the First Amendment-that people of America were capable of being exposed to elements and news which they may not want to hear. 
No matter how distasteful or incorrect speech is, no one is forced to believe it or even. re­act to it. It is also everyone's right to disagree and take ac­tion against offensive material, in a respectable manner. But to limit everyone's rights is re­gressive. 
The best way to uphold the First Amendment is to use )uLo freedoms actively while re­membering those millions wh1 died for us to sit and decidb "freedom of speech allows too much freedom." Ask those who have lived in oppression. Then ask those who live in America now. 
What is plaguing our society more than anything else is the lack of thought. Thought for others, thought for understand­ing, thought for innovation, thought for freedom. 
Limit speech, in any degree, is to limit thought. Millions of lives have been lost for freedom of speech and thought. For what can not be spoken is kept in ~hought which leads to frus­tration, discouragement and revolution. We have the free­~om to revolt against what we 
,·t agree with, without 
uodshed. 
Michael Hill Holy Cross College 
Feb.10,1993 

P---------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
page 12 Monday, February 15, 1993 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Accent Writer 
A young wife desperately wants to divorce her abusive husband. A couple is unfairly evicted from their home. An elderly man struggles to afford home health care for his ailing wife, who is afflicted with Alzheimer's Disease. 
These situations don't seem too special until you consider the legal organization that fights their battles. The Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana is a private, non-profit corporation which provides free legal assistance to low-income individuals. The young woman, the couple, and the elderly man all sought help from Legal Services. 
"It's easy to say there is equal justice for the poor, but in real­ity, there just isn't," said Debo­rah Cataldo, Legal Services community resource develop­ment director. 
LPgal Services seeks to fill this gap in the provision of justice. Founded in 1953 by a group of attorneys and community leaders, Legal Services serves 24 Indiana counties, and enlists the help of 122 volunteers in offices in South Bend and Lafayette. A paid staff of 31 peopln is involved as well. 
Funding cuts in the 1980's 



forcnd Legal Services to bring Saint Mary's students. Theyvolunteers into the organiza­work in areas ranging from tion, said Cataldo. client intake to attorney assis­"The decision we made was to 
tance and research. close three of our five offices "The volunteers gather all of and initiate the volunteer pro­the information about a client's gram." she said. problem and then give it to the attorneys to review," said 
Of the 122 volunteers cur­
Cataldo. 

rently working with Legal Ser­Clients may call or just walk vices, 29 are Notre Dame and 
By JOHN CONNORTON The centerpiece in the first Accent Writer room. "Forever Summer," is characteristic of Yogi's im­
"The art-world system inad­pressive acrylic work. Like vertently works to fix artists so many of his other acrylic paint­that through suceess they are ings, "Forever Summer" is kept in the same slot that they marked by tremendous strokes are used to. One is encouraged to repeat. discouraged to ex­"His work is a plore ... " reads the only placard 
selection of nearly all
marking Don Yogi's new exhibit at the Snite Museum. "Shades of what the world of of Orange," Yogi's last faculty art has to offer." one man show, takes note of that belief and then dismisses it. 
of orange and similar colors, red, pink, maroon.
Through the use of acrylic, watercolor. collage, and ce­Orange dominates most of

ramic sculpture, Don Yogi. As­

Yogi's acrylic works, but he
sociate Professor of Art at Notre does not ignore the vast palette

Dame, has taken risks that at the grasp of all artists. His many artists are unwilling to numerous watercolors on dis­

take. His work is a selection of play make wide use of all thenearly all of what the world of colors in the rainbow. Depict­art has to offer. realism and 

ing a wide range of back­expressionism, planned and 
grounds, including Morocco,
improvised, delicate and loose. 

France, Spain, Portugal, and even the Notre Dame campus,
The exhibit is entitled 

Yogi's watercolors do not fail to"Shades of Orange" in tribute to impress.
Yogi's deep love of the color orange. From the get-go, one is "Shades of Orange" is part of

immediately struck by the 

the annual faculty show. It is 
presence of the color, some­

currently on display in the East
times just a little dash, at others his works are for sale at quite a Yogi will have completed 1993, when he plans to retire.
Galleries, 1-111 O'Shaugnessy
its presence is bold and glaring. reasonable prices, according to thirty years of teaching at the
Hall through April 4. Many of one of the Snite's monitors University of Notre Dame in 
page 13 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1993 
Big Ten championship all Sabres' win headlines NHL wrap 
Sabres 7, Penguins 4 son set by Danny Gare in 1979-twice for Toronto. 
but decided on busy day· BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -Pat 80. The Maple Leafs trailed 5-3 
(AP) It was close, hut at the Knight. "Michigan is re end, Michigan all but conceded really tough." the Big Ten championship to The Wolverines made .a Indiana. son*high 12 3*pointers 
"We're probably not going to attempts and shot &8 ........p,.....f,·l win the Big Ten title," Michi· for the game. 
gan coach Steve Fisher said Chris Webber after losing 93*92 Sunday to 23 polnt~"tor ...~.....,,u the Hoosiers, who remained U~Okwbile .···'-<~oUJtiL:'h'-lU,apey:l 
unbeaten in league play. "It and would take a major miracle.~ and 
The loss put Michigan in a seas6n,bigb 17;; third place, three games behind Indiana with seven contests left. 
Illinois, which lost a non~con* renee game Saturday 17th-ranked Pittsburgh 95~ in second, 2 112 games back. 
In conference games Satut· Minnesota upset No. 13 91-85, Michigan State got 
Ohio State 81-66, Nort)l· ..... >P•<J;I;"'"'"" """'"'n'•rn downed Penn State ~58 and No. 18 Purdue aked by Wisconsin double overtime. 
Things looked bleak early for 1 Indiana against the visit~ Wolverines (19-4, 8*3) as Hoosiers trailed by 13 in first half. But Indiana;s emark defense came ough as No. 4 Michigan without a field goal for 6 minutes until a last*minute t barrage, including a at the buzzer that made game seem closer than it 
''I'll tell you, I don't want to ay them ever again whell shoot that way on 3~point~ ,.. said Indiana coaeh Bob 
LaFontaine moved into a tie with Mario Lemieux for the NHL's scoring lead with a three­point game in Buffalo's victory over Pittsburgh. 
LaFontaine scored a goal and added two assists to increase his point total to 104, the same as Lemieux, the Penguins' su­perstar currently undergoing treatment for Hodgkin's Dis­ease. 
Alexander Mogilny added to his league goal-scoring lead with his 55th and 56th (empty net) of the season, while the Sabres also got two goals from Wayne Presley and single scores from Grant Ledyard and Yuri Khmylev. Mogilny tied the club record for goals in a sea-
Maple Leafs 6, North Stars 5 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP)­Todd Gill's second goal of the game broke a tie with 40 sec­onds left in the third period as Toronto rallied from a three­goal deficit to beat Minnesota. 
Doug Gilmour, just off a six­assist performance against the North Stars Saturday night in a 6-1 Toronto victory, scored the tying goal and added two as­sists as the Maple Leafs swept a home-and-home series to move within four points of Minnesota for third place in the Norris Division. 
Mike Modano haa two goals and an assist for the North Stars, and Mark Osborne scored entering the third period, but outshot Minnesota 13-3 and scored three times in the pe­riod. 
Bruins 3, Lightning 3 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Steve Leach scored at 14:22 of the third period to help Boston tie Tampa Bay. Adam Oates recorded his 1OOth assist for Boston. 
Tampa Bay took its third lead of the game at 3-2 just before the end of the second period on Chris Kontos' 27th goal. 
But Leach flipped a shot past Young, who had just knocked away a wrist shot from Gord Roberts to tie the score. It was Leach's 19th goal. 
Losses have effect on college polls 
(AP) Indiana, which took a commanding lead in the Big Ten, was two votes short of being the unanimous No. 1 team on Sunday night. 
The Hoosiers (22-2) won both their games last week, a con­troversial road win at Penn State and an impressive home win over Michigan. They got 59 of the 61 first-place votes cast by a nationwide panel of writ­ers and broadcasters. 
Kentucky (18-2) held second despite splitting its games this week while North Carolina (20­
3) moved from sixth to third with a pair of wins. North Carolina also got a first-place vote. 
Arizona (17 -2), which has the nation's longest current win­ning streak at 15, moved up one spot to fourth and was the other team to receive a No. 1 vote. 
Michigan (19-4) dropped one spot to fifth with the loss to In­diana and Kansas moved up one to sixth after beating Okla­homa State and Missouri. Duke (19-4), which lost at home to Wake Forest, fell from third to seventh and was followed in the Top Ten by Cincinnati, Florida State and Wake Forest. 
While the Top Ten teams re­mained the same from last week, there were two new members in the bottom. 
Louisville (14-6), which ended UNLV's 59-game home winning streak on Sunday, jumped in at No. 22. The Cardinals were ranked early in the season but dropped out with a 2-4 start. 
St. John's (14-6), the presea­son No. 9 pick in the Big East that is currently leading that conference, comes at No. 25 after beating Providence and Boston College last week. 
Vanderbilt led the Second Ten and was followed by Utah, Arkansas, Purdue, UNLV, Seton Hall, Pittsburgh, Tulane, Massachusetts and Iowa, which dropped seven spots from last week. 
New Orleans was up to 21st and was followed by Louisville, Virginia, Marquette and St. John's. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 o a.m. to 3;30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
lassifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
Texts Cheap Pandora's 
Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­
ND Ave & Howard 
ECONTUTOR Principles/In! Manageriai/BCA Call Tony Sindone 
1-325-8918 
ILOST & FOUND I 
You found my sportcoat Please call back: 288-3839 or 1-7226 (days). 
LOST-Men's tan leather jacket with leather gloves in the pockets. Lost during the LS.O. party at the Greek Orthodox church. Please call Rich at x4153. 
LOST: Gold circle earring on a 
dangling hook at Keenan 
Revue-1/28 
Call 284-5254 
Found: jacket at Corby's the first week of school. Call 271-7288 and ask for Mary to identify. 
LOST-Men's black wool dress coat during ISO party. ·Was Christmas gift Please call Chuck at #3277 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628. 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. Many provide room & board+ other benefits! Make $2,000-$4,000+ per month. No previous training or teaching certificate required. For employment program call: 
(206) 632-1146 ext J5584. 
Driving South for Spring Break? 
I need ride to Dallas, TX. Leaving 
Fri. 3/5. Will help w/ gas. Call Lynn 284-5473. 
Mothers helper needed part time days and evenings. Perfect for summer job also. Must be friendly, with experience and own car. 232­2201 
EX-ND STAFFER & SPOUSE 
DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED 
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER. 
NON-SMOKERS. REFERENCES. 
WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, 
MULBERRY FL 33860 or PHONE 
(813)425-4404 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn $2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 
1-206-634-0468 ext C5584. 
Swimming pool and spa company has opening for retail sales person for Summer season. Underclassmen have opportunity for multiple Summers work. Competitive pay, flexible hours and training provided. Send letter or resume to 1919 South Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46613 Help Help! Help! Help! Help! 

Desperate female seeking ride to 
Washington D.C. for Spring Break. 
Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Leah@ 
284-4308, leave message. 
Babysitting Position Looking for 1 full time or 2 part time students to babysit.in our home for our 11 month old child. Must have references and own transportation. Please call for an interview ... 287­3297 
L...-_F_O_R_R_E_N_T_ __.I 
3-5 person furnished house, Sec. System, wash/dry, beach V-ball, PRIME location, 233-9947. 
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY -1 BDRM, USE OF ALL UTILITIES, GOAL-ORIENTED FEMALE PREFERRED. CLEAN, SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. $225/MO. CALL MONICA 232-2794. 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST 
AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON 
WEEKENDS. 
219-291-2899. 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR 
SUMMER SCHOOL 
GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING 
PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL 
MONICA 232-2794. 
I FOR SALE 
Women's light weight 26 in. Schwinn bike. 1 Ospeed, red, like new, $135, call 234-7035. 
TICKETS 
Desperately seeking up to 4 GAs for the Marquette game. 
Please call Beth at x2914. 

I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS FOR THE MARQUETIE GAME!! II!! Please call Chris or Mike x1117 
I need MARQUETIE tickets. 
Dennis x3447. 

I PERSONAL 
SMC & ND Summer Programs-London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284-4460(office). 272-3726(home). 
$100 FOR A STUDENT DRIVING TO FLORIDA IN NEXT 60 DAYS. WOULD REQUIRE PICKING UP A XEROX COPIER AND DELIVERlNG IT TO SARASOTA, FLORIDA. CALL 264-9508 AND ASK FOR JULIE. 
ADOPTION: Were you overwhelmed when you found out you were pregnant? We were overwhelmed when we found out we couldn't have children. We're a Catholic nurse/doctor couple happily married for 9 years. If you want your baby to grow up with patient, loving parents, a large extended family, & two very sweet dogs, please call Mary and Michael1-800-759-6039. 
SOUTH PADRE -BEACHFRONT Radisson Resort Wet suit contests, parties, sleeps 6-8 & Marco Island, FL House -near Keys $750 week 813-642-5483 
We have an awesome hotel room in Daytona for Spring Break, but we need 2 more girls to go in with us. Only $130 for the week + gas$. Call Nicole or Michelle x4530. 
To Queenie, Bridgey, Causti, Jilly, TB, and Me: 
Happy '~he day alter" Valentine's Day !!!I! 
HI Meg, Felicia, Shannon WE MISS YOU! 
***AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. 
To LL Cool C ... have a good day... and say hi to your uncle! 
To my favorite C & L girl from "Noo Yawk" (LSG) and to my sweet, little, honey-dew melon: 
The three luckiest guys in the whole world are myself and the two that will get to spend their lives with you. 
Happy Valentines Always ! 
Love, your Cousin Vinny 
MATI (desperate for a personal) CANNIZZO 
Dr. Martin is KEY 
(you'd probably disagree ... .... as ususal) 
MATI (desperate for a personal) CANNIZZO 
Dr. Martin is KEY 
(you'd probably disagree ... . ... as ususal) To the hot, sexy, steamy nurse that 

lives by the three coolest girls at Saint Mary's, keep your patients happy and remember to knock ... kitchen 
My creamy sex sapling: 
Thank you for always being 
there, for making me smile, 
for being hopelessly devoted, 
for the string, for the walks 
and the tears, for the moves, 
for the best two years of my 
life, for the love. I'll always 
love you. 
Bubbles 

Hoops Freaks ... Get Ready! BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
XXII sign-ups -Feb.28. The censorship committee salivates at 
the thought of your absurd team 
name. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education. endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232­5843. 
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS 
page 14 


continued from page 20 
side, scoring a team-high 19, including 7 -of-8 from the free­throw line. Gomez ended up with 18. 
"I guess I'm used to it now," said Gomez of coming off the bench, "It doesn't really bother me." 
Also leading the Irish was senior co-captain Coquese Washington, who had 11 points and eight assists and is now averaging in double-figures, and coming off the bench was junior Tootie Jones, who tallied eight on 4-of-6 shooting. 
Notre Dame improved their record to 11-10 overall, 7-4 in the MCC, while Dayton, who was paced by Saunder's 17 points and Natalie Hill's 15, fell to 3-7 in the MCC and 10-10 overall. 
Next up for the Irish is a road trip to Loyola on Thursday and leaders Butler and Evansville on March 4-6. 

NOTRE DAME 92 -Letitia Bowen 6-8 7 ·8 19, Carey Poor 4·5 1-1 9, Kara Leary 2­2 0-0 4, Coquese Washington 2-7 6-6 11, Stacy Fields 6-10 2-4 14, Kristin Knapp 3-8 0-1 6, Audrey Gomez 6-8 2-2 18, Sherri Or­losky 1-3 1-2 3, Majenica Rupe 0-0 0-0 0, Tootie Jones 4-6 0-0 8. Totals 34-57 19-24 92. 
DAYTON 80 -Janice Roberts 3-9 4-5 10, Julie Arnold 4-7 2-2 10, Jennifer Meineke 2-6 10-13 14, Janie Weckesser 5­7 0-0 11, Shari Sauder 6-12 4-4 17, Nychola Richardson 0-0 1-3 1, Natalie Hill 5-9 5-5 15, Stephanie Smith 0-1 0-0 0, Jessica Stuart 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 26-53 26-32 80. 
Halftime: Notre Dame 41, Day1on 39. 
3-point shooting: Notre Dame 5-11 (Washington 1-4, Fields 0-2, Gomez 4-4, Orlosky 0-1). Dayton 2-8 (Roberts 0-2, Meineke 0-1, Weckesser 1-2, Sauder 1-3). Shooting: Notre Dame 34 of 57 for 60 per­cent, Day1on 26 of 53 for 49 percent. Total fouls (fouled out): Notre Dame 26 (none), Dayton 23 (Arnold). Rebounds: Notre Dame 27 (Knapp 7), Dayton 27 (Arnold 5). Assists: Notre Dame 17 (Washington 8), Dayton 9 (Meineke 3). Turnovers: Notre Dame 16 (Bowen 3, Orlosky 3), Day1on 19 (Saunder 4). Officials: Joe Gilliand and Paul Freiking. A-2,303. 
·~  ~  
C\~~ ~·  J.p 0~~  
~' 

c~ Still needed: 
\W/CIDTI~®Ir!\W/CIDTI ~Ir®~~ JWilCID~® TIIlJW llil®ll}]) · 
Saturday, 2/20 Sunday, 2/21 
apply Catering-SDH 
Are you sick ofpoor sports coverage? Do something about it! 

Thursday, February 181h 7pm LeMans Lobby 
All old/new sport reporters mu6t come. Anyone is welcome. 
Contact Nicole McGrath X5193 for more information. 
The Observer Monday, February 15, 1 
Injuries deplete ailing Irish lineu 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
On Saturday, Kentucky had a big assist in its 
visit to the Joyce ACC. 
Specifically, Notre Dame, and its lack of depth. 
During the second half, when the second­
ranked Wildcats were finally starting to look 
bored, and began to falter against the Irish, 
Notre Dame's bench ran out. 
And Kentucky ran over the Irish. 
John MacLeod knew his lineup was shallow before this season started. With the departure of four starting seniors, experience was a valuable commodity on the Irish bench. But Monty Williams was cleared to play, and the Irish had twelve scholarship players available. 
But things took a turn for the worse. Center Nathion Gilmore announced plans to transfer to Texas, and freshman guard Keith Kurowski went down for the season with a stress factor. And then there were ten. 
But Notre Dame often overcame their deficiencies in maintaining a record near .500 through the first 20 games of 1992-93. At 9-11 entering Saturday's game with Kentucky, Notre Dame had beaten Boston College and USC. and kept close with Duke and Indiana. 
But on February 7, the stress fracture bug bit the Irish again, as forward Carl Cozen went down with a foot injury similar. to Kurowski's. Then Jason Williams, who had played solidly last week, starting Notre Dame's win over hapless Dayton, suffered a bruised lung and was unavailable for Kentucky. 
After the loss to the Wildcats, MacLeod ran down the discouragingly long list of injuries, and added, " ... and Elmer Bennett has a broken finger." He paused. "Yeah, even our former players are getting hurt." 
With Bennett in Grand Rapids, Mich., playing CBA ball, Notre Dame had eight scholarship players available at tip-off Saturday, and it looked like the personnel situation could get no worse. But things would indeed deteriorate further for MacLeod's team. 
Notre Dame had fought back to within three points of Kentucky with just under 13 minutes left in the second half. But Jamal Mashburn scored six straight points. MacLeod brought Joe Ross, with four fouls, back into the game to shore up the middle. Ross promptly fouled out while flying through the lane toward the basket and 
easy two. His brother Jon appeared. Ei 
seconds later, he was gone. Mashburn wen 
the line and sank two free throws, pushing 
lead to 11. 
With one scholarship player remaining on 
bench for the last 12:23, MacLeod had no 
to take out tired legs, and talk about terri 
plays with the players who made them. 
quickly extended its lead, and never looked 
on its way to a 19-point win. 
The Obs;erv,er/Pat Things have been looking up for walk-on lately, as injuries have given him more playing 

GraduatingSeniors: 
An Accelerated Path to a Nursing Career 
Georgetown University School of Nursing offers an accelerated program leading to a BSN degree, designed for college graduates who wish to pursue a career in nursing. Upon com­pletion of the 15-month program, graduates are prepared to take the state board examiha­tions to become licensed registered nurses. Although we encourage students with science or pre-med backgrounds to apply, all under­graduate degrees are acceptable. 
The application deadline for the Fall 1993 semester is March 1, 1993. For more informa­tion about Georgetown University, and admis­sion, registration, and curriculum for the Accelerated BSN program, please call Stephanie Lamboley at (202) 687-5001. Georgetown University also offers graduate programs in nursing; for information on these, please contact Joan Kelly at (202)687-4820. 
Limited financial aid aooilable. 
Accelerated BSN Program 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions School of Nursing Georgetown University 3700 Reservoir Road, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007 
-----~-----~-----~~-­
Monday, February 15, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Women's tennis fails in upset bid sPoRTS BRIEFs 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 
The SUB-sponsored movie "Singles" was a big hit at the Cushing Auditorium this week­end. For the Notre Dame women's tennis squad, however, singles-as in tennis matches-were not. 
Leading after the singles por­tion of the match was consid­ered by the team to be impor­tant if they were to upset Ken­tucky and Tennessee. Instead, the Irish fell behind 4-2 in both matches, eventually losing 6-3 to the 18-ranked Wildcats and 7-2 to the 11-ranked Lady Volunteers. 
"We just got down too far in the singles," said freshman Holyn Lord. "That puts a lot of pressure on the doubles teams, which makes it more difficult to 
\Vin." 

Lord, playing at number six, and junior Christy Faustman at 
number five, were the only Irish players to win singles matches against either team. 
Versus Kentucky on 


S a t u r d a Y , Christy Lord cruised Faustman 6-3, 6-4 over Marina Sansostri, while Faustman outlasted Sheri Bash 6-2, 2-6, 6-2. In Sunday's match against the Volunteers, Lord rolled to a 6-3, 6-1 victory and Faustman won 6-4, 7-5. Notre Dame failed to win a 
College Students! 
A real estate career could propel you into a rewarding future! If you plan to live in the Michiana area after graduation, please join us! 
Tuesday, February, 16 Saint Mary's College Haggar College Center, Room 304 
Call Sheila Bardwell to register and receive your free Real Estate Career Kit 
271.. 4171 
Hosted by: Cressy and Everett/ Better Homes and Gardens 


will be held Saturday, April 17, 1993 
Any bands interested in participating can pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor ofLafortune 
*Application deadline is Monday, March 1, 1993* The first 20 bands to turn in applications will be accepted. 
TRY YOUR LUCK ron ACHANCE AT EXTRA SAVINGS! 
YOU MAY WIN APORTION or YOUR MEAL 
rnEE! 

FACULTY DINING ROOM 
OPtN MONDAY-FRIDAY 

11:30 AM -1:00 PM LOCATED IN TEE t.TPPEil. IJVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL 


match in the one through four positions in both matches. 
Even after trailing 4-2 in both contests, the Irish could have pulled out victories by winning all their doubles matches. Notre Dame, however, could not respond to the pressure and managed only one win in its six doubles matches. 
That lone victory came against Kentucky when freshman Wendly Crabtree paired with junior Lisa Tholen, winning 7-6 (7-5), 6-4. 
The squad had high hopes for an upset going into the weekend, but still are not giving up hope. 
"We're all a little disappointed with how the matches turned out," said Lord. "We had hoped to do better, but now there's next weekend to look forward to. There's not time to dwell on it." 
Notre Dame hosts Louisiana State and Texas Christian at Eck Pavilion this Friday and Saturday. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
"The players deserve a lot of credit." So after 24th-ranked New Mexico was upset by the Uni­

versity of San Diego, the Irish took on USD for the title. 
Though San Diego is yet to be ranked, Bayliss and the Irish knew they would have their hands full since San Diego nar­rowly lost to 2nd-ranked Stan­ford 4-3 last week. Turns out they were right. 




!CLUB 
San Diego set the tone by winning the doubles point as both Coleman and Forsyth, Wo­jtalik and Schmidt lost on tiebreakers, with the Irish's only win coming as Rosas and Pun beat Phillippe Hofman and Emmanuel Udozorh 8-3. 
"The doubles have been dis­appointing to me," said Bayliss, "We need more productivity, and the chemistry needs to im­prove. We might look to shake it up a little bit." 
The Irish turned things around in the singles matches, though, as Coleman and Schmidt both fought off first set losses again, with Coleman beating Kevin Bradley 2-6, 7-6, 6-2 and Forsyth taking Ignacio Martinez 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. Though Forsyth was beaten by Frederik Axsater 7-6, 6-4, Wojtalik's match at five-singles was sus­pended after Todd Wilson picked up another victory, this time against J.J. Shobar 6-2, 7­6, to seal the match. 
"We were glad Todd could step in with no experience this year," stated Bayliss, "He's turning into a tough, blue-collar player." 
Next up for the Irish is the National Team Indoors in Louisville, where they will open against a strong Texas squad, and with a win would face number-one USC. Either way, they will play three top-15 clubs in their first three matches. 
"We know every match will be this way," said Bayliss after this weekend's thrillers, "We'll have 
to play match" 
hard to win every 


Apply today for the best job 
in the whole world! Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office 3rd floor LaFortune 
Deadline: March 5, 1993 
• 


page 16 The Observer Monday, February 15, 1993 
Women's track places second at BSU 
By MIKE NORBUT tion of strength in both the Bowling Green University Sports Writer sprinting and distance events, competed well in the longer placing a competitor in the top sprints, with Benita Thomas 
The Notre Dame women's four in every race. Sprinter winning the 400 and Leslie track team travelled to Muncie, Tameka Borders won both the Moorman taking first in the 600 Ind., Friday for the Ball State 55 and 200 meter dash, while meter dash. Invitational, featuring five of Darjul 
In the 800 meter run, West­the strongest running teams Claiborne ern Michigan runner Jill 
from th11 Midwest. took first in Stamison defeated Notre Dame A number of excellent indi­the 55 meter freshman Erica Peterson, a vidual Irish efforts were over­high hurdles. runner normally featured in the shadowed by a strong Ball State Cardinal sprinting and hurdle categories. t11am performance. The Cardi­runner Patty The bright spots for the Irish nals finishnd in first place with Baker won included Becky Alfieri's victory 63 points, trailed by Notre the mile run, in the 1000 meter run, and Dame with 4 7. 5 and Ashland d g i g Lisa Gorski Notre Dame's dominance in the
e n 

University with 42.5 points. Western field events. Karen Harris and 
"We knew Ball State had a Michigan runner Stacey Kilburn Rachel Kavanaugh took first very good team, and they would and Irish runners Stefanie and second, respectively, in the be tough in the distance Jensen, Emily Husted, and shot put, while Trisha Joseph events," said distance runner Kristi Kramer. won the triple jump. Their per­Becky Alfieri, who took first In the key event of the meet, formances sealed a solid sec­
place in the 1000 meter run the 3000 meter run, Baker took ond-place finish for the Fighting Friday. "We had some really first ahead of Notre Dame Irish. good performances individually, runner Eva Flood and another Next week, Notre Dame will 
but we felt like we could have Ball State runner, Christie travel to Bloomington, Ind., for done better as a team." Wood, edged out Sarah Riley for the Indiana Collegiates, featur­Ball State had equal distribu-third. ing teams from across the state. 
No. 1 Indiana downs Wolverines 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­There. was no controversial referee's call needed for Indi­ana to win this one. All it took was some solid defense and a freshman stepping up to keep the scoring balanced. 
Brian Evans scored a season­high 17 points and No. 1 Indi­ana remained unbeaten in the Big Ten with a 93-92 victory over fifth-ranked Michigan on Sunday, the Hoosiers' 11th consecutive win. 
The last win for Indiana (22-2, 11-0 Big Ten) came in double overtime at Penn State on Tuesday night when an admit­ted blown call by an oiTicial al­lowed the Hoosiers a chance to win it. 
Things looked bleak at home against the Wolverines (19-4, 8­
3) early as the Hoosiers trailed by 13 in the first half. But Indiana's trademark defense came through as Michigan went without a field goal for 6 1/2 minutes until a last-minute 3­point barrage, including a shot at the buzzer that made the game seem closer than it was. 
"The first point I want to make, and it is possibly the most important point of all, was that we were able to leave the floor at halftime just down two points," Indiana coach Bob Knight said. "It nearly got away from us again but we did a really good job of hanging in there and our guys off the bench really contributed." 
Straight from the ll.O.R.O.E. Tour with llhish, Blues Traveler & the Spin Doctors 
WIDESPREAD PANIC 

THEATRE 
404 S.Burdick. Kalamazoo. Ml 
OnsalenowalaH ~~locations and lhe Slate Thealre BOx O«lce. Charge by phone, 616-345-6500 
'1\vo free throws by Jalen Hose hit a 3-pointer 10 seconds later with 6:01 to play gave the to give Indiana the lead for Wolverines their last lead, 78-good. Michigan then turned the 
76. ball over on its next three Evans, a 6-foot-8 freshman, possessions. 
funky  B  •lg  bash  
R ebellious  E_nergefic  
Elecfrifying  Ecsfafic  
•Even1ng  Revival  

0 proo february 18, 1993 8-10 p.m. 
The Bai/Poom (foPmeP/lJ TheodoPe ~) 
Sponsored by SADD 
Men finish promising sixth at Indoor Championships 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame Men's Track team placed sixth this weekend in the Central Collegiate Indoor Championships, finishing with a total score of 53. 
"This meet went fairly well," said Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. "We had some real good things happen and then some minor dissappointments, but all in all I think things went really well." 
The only win the Irish had came from Todd Herman, who jumped seven feet in the high jump. Another performance of note was from Nate Huder who anchored the distance medley relay for the Irish and ran the 3000 meters. 
In the distance medley relay, Ruder ran 4:12 in the mile and then placed second in the 3000 meters with a time of 8:24.14. 
Other performances of note came from Shane Dubois who place sixth in the 3000 meters with a time of 8:34.77 and Derek Seiling who placed fifth in that same event with a time 
of 8:34.41 "Nate Ruder did a very fine job," said Piane. 
While the Irish did not win the meet, with the strong score of 53 the young team showed g r e a t promise for the seasons to come. 


Todd Herman
•
" T h e 
future is real bright. Of all the people we brought up, there was only one senior. So out of the 53 points we scored, 42 will be back next year," Piane said. 
The suprise of the meet was the performance of the North­ern Iowa squad. Northern Iowa finished second in the. meet with a score of 83. The team's strong showing was due in part to the team's domina­tion in the 55 meter high hur­dles. 
"Northern Iowa performed very well," admitted Pian e. 
Eastern Michigan won meet with a total seore of 167 points. 


Monday, February 15, 1993 The Observer page 17 
CCHA upset refreshing for struggling Irish hockey team 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
"It's so much more fun to 
win." 
Those were the sentiments of Notre Dame hockey coach Ric Schafer after the Irish knocked off Ferris State 3-2 in an over­time thriller on Saturday night. The Irish, who had lost 7-4 at Bowling Green on Friday night, rebounded with a solid effort and gained their first win since January 9. 
"We work very hard and we deserve more, but we've gotten some tough breaks throughout the season." said Schafer. "Tonight, we had the effort plus we got a break at the end." 
After a scoreless first period in Saturday night's game, Ferris broke into the scoring column at the 10:34 mark of the second period and gained a 2-0 lead with six minutes remaining in the session. However, with 1:49 left, Irish sophomore wing Brent Lamppa rifled a shot past Ferris goalie Craig Lisko for his second goal of the season. "I was just in the right place at the right time," said Lamppa. 
Lamppa struck again just 38 seconds into the third period with another slap shot by Lisko. "We knew we could come back," he commented. "It was just a matter of time." 
After scoring six goals in his rookie season. Lamppa had scored only one goal this year until Saturday. "I've had plenty of chances, but I haven't been able to capitalize," he said. "I fi­nally capitalized, and maybe I'll start peeking for the playoffs to help the team." 
Both teams had numerous chances to gain the lead in the third period, but defense pre­vailed. "We had a solid defen­sive effort and Dan Sawyer and Greg Louder played exception­ally," said Schafer. 
Louder held the Bulldogs scoreless for the final 26 min­utes and registered 19 saves for the night. 
At the start of the five­minute overtime period, it looked as if the game would remain tied for the duration. However, Irish senior assistant captain Dave Bankoske scored a remarkable unassisted goal 45 seconds into the period for his team-leading 12th of the season. 
Bankoske maneuvered the puck around two Ferris defend­ers and then faked out Lisko to secure the Irish win. "The coaches tell us if you play the puck, you look like a schmuck, and their guy played the puck," explained Bankoske. "I was able to stay on my feet and finish it." 
After the score, the Irish players rushed onto the ice and toppled Bankoske in the corner of the rink. "This is a monstrous win, because we've had so much adversity," added Bankoske. "It's a character builder and it was just a total team effort put forth by every 
guy." 
Notre Dame played without four key players who missed the game with injuries. "We were short with injuries, but we have a week off to savor this and get some people back," said Schafer. 
The weekend didn't start off as well as the Irish had planned, as Bowling Green jumped out to a 5-1 lead and never looked back in Friday's contest. "We had our moments, but we couldn't finish some of our opportunities," commented Schafer. 
The bright spot for the Irish was freshman Brett Bruininks, who scored two goals to in­crease his season total to eight for the year. Freshman Jaime Ling and senior Dan Sawyer added one apiece. Ling, who has 36 points for the year, is in contention for Central Collegiate Hockey Association rookie of the year. 
Notre Dame has a week off after playing seven-straight weekend games. They finish the season with games against Western Michigan, Michigan, Bowling Green and Michigan State. Following that stretch, the Irish will play in the. CCHA playoffs on the weekend of March 12. 

The Observer/Sean Farnan Freshman center Jamie Ling, a leading contender for CCHA rookie of the year, scored his 36th point of the year in Friday night's loss. 
Men's volleyball disappointed with tourney finish 
the next match, against Toledo, where Madden said that "Toledo was coming up to us and asking if we'd been out drinking all night." The Irish won 15-13 and 15-5, but, according to Madden, it should have been an easier victory for the Irish. 
"We crushed them earlier in the year, but we just didn't play well in this game. It's a good tbing we had the mental edge of an earlier win, or they might have knocked us off." 
In the Ohio State match, an old problem came up for the Irish: they reached 13 points in game one and could go no farther. 
"Passing was a problem again," said Madden. "We were hitting right into double blocks." The Irish, up 13"10, went on to lose that game 15­13, and dropped a hard-fought game two 15-12. 
Faced with a must-win situation against Auburn, the Irish came up short, allowing Auburn to jump out to a 14-5 lead. The Irish held Auburn off valiantly thereafter, but still fell 15-11, eliminating them from the tournament. 
"We could have done a lot better," Madden said. "We played our best when we were loose, but unfortunately that didn't happen much, and we were tired from travelling all day before." 
The next match for the Irish is tonight, when they host Loyola­Chicago. The game begins at 
7:30 in the auxiliary gym at the 
J.A.C. C. 
Bettis hopes to impress at NFL combine 
By KEVIN DOLAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's volleyball team returned from Saturday's tournament at Kentucky empty handed, as the combination of poor play and bad surroundings dragged the Irish down to a tie for 13th in the tourney. 
The Irish finished 2-5 on the day, losing to Morehead State, Ohio State and Auburn, with their only victory coming against Toledo. 
According to the Irish's Pat Madden, the first match of the day, a 2-0 loss to Morehead State, was the low point of the day. 
"There's no way we should have lost to them," said Madden. "We scored all their points with our mistakes." 
Passing has often been a problem for the Irish this year, and this match was no exception. 
"We set them up for a lot of spikes and other easy shots by overpassing," said Madden. 
The problems continued into 
Happy Birthday 
King
Tortuga 
Muffin 

(A.K.A. Dave)
Love,

Mag & Company 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -While quarterback Rick Mirer appears certain to be a first-round pick, Notre Dame teammate Jerome Bettis is hoping his versatility at running back will impress enough NFL scouts to put him high in the draft, too. 
Bettis, considered one of the top prospects in an otherwise 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE Our good rates may save you money We now offer a Good Student Discount 
Call for a quote 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 

289,1993 Office next to Campus 
Attention Juniors: 
You must pick up your JPW Registration Packet 
(includes tickets for events) 
Monday, February 15 6-10 p.m. or Tuesday. February 16 6-10 p.m. 1st floor LaFortune 
(Next to Information Desk) 
so-so crop of ball carriers, was among about 350 collegians at the annual NFL Scouting Com­bine ending today at the Hoosier Dome. 
''I've done everything ... running, blocking, catching the football," said the 6-foot, 240­pound Bettis, who feels he of­fers the NFL a blend of power and speed. "Basically I just hope the interest (by NFL teams) is there, but I would really like to go with someone who will use me a lot. I think I can do a lot of different things and I can upgrade the skills that I have." 
New England has the first pick in the April 25-26 draft, while Seattle, which finished last in the NFL in offense last year, has the second selection. 
"Mirer is an outstanding ath­lete and leader. I think he's probably going to be a little better pro player than he was a college player because he's go­ing to experience more different types of throws," said Mike Allman, the Seahawks' player personnel director. "The big thing is he's been a winner, he's durable and he is definitely top talent as an athlete." 
Bettis was one of 37 under­classmen who gave up their college eligibility for a chance to be drafted this year. Another was quarterback Drew Bledsoe of Washington State, who along with Mirer is seen as a first­round certainty, possibly even the No. 1 pick. 
"We weren't considering him until January when he declared he was coming out," Allman said. "When our evaluation is completed, I'm sure he's going to come out among the top five or six players." 
LIVE IN JAPAN 
Individuals with backgrounds in business, liberal arts, pharm., engineering, or other fields with a university degree (by 1993) interested in teaching English in Japan for one year to employees of major corporations and government agencies should send an in-depth resume (via post/fax) to: 
IES 

Shin-Taiso Bldg. I 0-7 Dogenzaka 2-chome Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150 JAPAN Fax: (03) 3463-7089 (Next interviews in University of Notre Dame area 3/3-4/93) 
Swim teams have successful weekend in Chicago 
Men finish dual meet with victory 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team ended their dual meet season Saturday with a solid victory over the University of Chicago-lllinois, winning 127-1 00. 
The men continued to show the balance and depth that has given them a dual meet season record of 11-2, losing only to Bowling Green and 21st­
ranked Purdue. ~ good position to begin their 
"This meet clearly . illustrated our team's strengths," said Irish Tom Horenkamp coach Tim Welsh stated. "It illustrated the importance of team balance and the power of depth." 
Notre Dame had 1-2-3 sweeps in four of the eleven swimming events-the 100 back, the 200 free, the 500 free, and the 1000 free. 
"After eight of the thirteen events were over, we had won four and they had won four, but we were still ahead by twenty-five points," Welsh said. 
Tom llorenkamp. a freshman from Bloomington, Ill., won both the 500 free and the 100 free at 4:52.4 and 10:01.1, respectively. 
I swam," Horenkamp said. "These were two of my top times this season in two of my top events. and I'm looking 
forward to swimming them in the championship meets." 
Chicago area sophomore Alan Shaw and junior Jim Doran were both part of a 1-2-3 sweep in the 200 freestyle 
"I thought it was very nice that the Notre Dame swimmers from Chicago could have a good meet in their hometown," Welsh stated. "We tried to showcase the Chicago kids and they did a great job." 
The dual meet leaves the Irish in a 

championship season. "This was our last tune-up meet prior to championships," Welsh said. "We were able to race a shorter format which encouraged us to pay attention to sprinting and sharpen our sprinting 
skills." . 
"This is a very positive note on which to enter the championship season," added Horenkamp. "We had speed when we needed it and endurance where we needed it. It's a great way to end the dual meet season." 
Two of Saturday's individual victories came from junior diver Sean Hyer. Hyer captured first place in the one me­ter and three meter diving events with respective scores of 296 points and 282 
Women dominate hapless Flames 
By HALEY SCOTT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team crushed the University of Illinois-Chicago in their last dual meet of the season on Saturday, 147-76. The Irish dominated, winning the first nine events, then swim­ming the rest of the meet exhibition in order to avoid running up the score. 
"Illinois-Chicago had no depth what so ever. Their good swimmers were sick, 
Susan Bohdan and their team in general had an off day," head coach Tim Welsh said. "They just weren't with it, and we were. We are dearly the better team." 
Leading the Irish were senior co-captain Susan Bohdan and sophomore Lorrei Horenkamp; each won both of their individual events. Bohdan placed first in the 1000-yard and the 100-yard freestyles, while Horenkamp dominated the middle freestyle events (500-yard and 200-yard). 
"Lorrei looked wonderful, and swam really well. Susan also swam her races well, as she always does," Welsh said. 
Seniors Tanya Williams and Kay 
Broderick won the 100-yard backstroke and the 200-yard individual medley, re­spectively, while freshman Joy Michnowicz finished first in the 100-yard butterfly to finalize the Irish's win. After that, no more swimming events were scored. 
Also making a good showing was sophomore diver Marcia Powers. Powers won her first collegiate diving competition on the three-meter board. 
Welsh was real pleased with the way the team swam and competed. "We looked pretty sharp. We wanted to swim sharp, and we did." 
The Irish have finished up their dual meet season, and will spend the next two weeks getting ready for their champi­onship meets. 
"We are real close to being ready for our championship meets (MCC's and Easterns). We showed some signs of be­ing in transition, from training to championships. We would swim OK in part of the race, but there are still signs that the team is tired. Once we rest, we will swim great," said Welsh. 
"This weekend we swam like we were Notre Dame swimming. The team was prepared, ready, confident, and the moral was right. It was a nice way to end this part of the season. It was Notre Dame swimming." 

for anyone interested in running for 

•
lass 
ICe 

r-----------, 
I • Buy 4 • sess1ons at the regular 1 I pnce and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA7
L.._ ________ __J1
J.·--•L ­

~~.....~ ·~_!~_'uttlng ('c~J 
Tuesday, February 16th 
Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
7:30p.m. 


-~ ~ ------------------------~-------­
Today • 
February 15, 1993 page 19 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Ct\1\NN~Lit-\q SOME-Or T\-\AT VALENTIN£'::'>-DA'I-SOVAL­rF,OSTRAllON-E!'JER6>Y1 HANK7 
BILL WATTERSON 
• 

em 1-\E.RE. I'\11. LEI\Rt'IING \1, Plf>..'(ING It'\ 11-\E ~oW 
B\JT 11-\1:. W~i I LOOK A.I 

R£.1\L 'SKILL'::; \Hi\\ I CI\N IS A. LOI MORt. 11<\PC>RTI\NT. 
ti.~?L'I n-\I<.Cl\)G\-\0\JT 1\-\£. Rt..<:,\ or t-~~'i LII=E 
ACROSS 26 Navy eqUivalent 55 Stage ofM.Sgt. 
58 Irenic period 1 Meadows 29 Margin &3 Pitcher's --~5 Songbird 31 Seek bagsCowboys' ambitiOUSly &4 Joan Mira's pokers 35 Harvests forteDestructive 37 P1ndar products &5 Overpeak in SiCily 

39 Marriage vows 5 Male lead &&Alpha's
40 Gaelic & Conical 
oppos1te41 Task 

dwelling &7 Treasury agts. 
42 Female swans 

7 Aleullan &8 Corn bread 
43Wherethe outpost Irrawaddy flows &9 Doyens aPersonal: 44 Camper's abode 10 Infamous Comb. form 45 Union general marquis 
9 Teacher, at 4& Cactus or 71 They're loose or home beverage tight Pac1fists, 1n 48 Florence's river slanguage 50 Actor Chaney ·:. -~ :.
DOWN 

Eleve's place 51 Cupid Two to two, e.g. 53 Land of the 1 What hurdlers Other leprechauns do 
2 Feminine suffix 3 Rectangular pier 4 Hollandaise is 
one 5 Yammered &An 18th-century 
overcoat 28 Desert water 47 The Summit 56 Charity begins 7 Actor Estrada or hole and Spectrum hereKing 

57 On the briny 

30 Minneapolis 49-Creed:a Lethal loop 
59 Columnist

suburb A.D. 325 9 Emphas1ze 
Bombeck 

....111111-=::.r:W.E -...:..r~+=-.f.!.!-1 1 o Calumet 32 Perfect 52 Ga1ters 
&o Privy to 1-'-'-li=+-'+=+==--11 Capable of 33 Sonata finale 54 A day's march &1 Set right 
12 Movie unit 34 Site of Krupp 55 Urge 62 Flock members works
13Withered 21 Holiday 

36 Dove, at times preceders 38 Prayed 
Get answers to any three clues 
-=+=+=+"'"~ 25 Hindmost 41 Battle site: 1944 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 
-':+~t-i 26 Bossy's best 45 Less's 

5656 {75¢ each minute). No. 0104
"""-'-';;;..o.;..;~ 27 Intrinsically associate _.. 
Mr. Ed spills his guts. 

WCCNKGI3~ ~~ 9t!4tfN.4t February 21 -25 
~"'9··· 
•Feb. 
21 Nikki Giovanni 


•Feb. 
22 Tim O'Brian Readings will be held in the Hesburgh Library 

•Feb. 
23 Gloria Naylor Auditorium. There will be a small reception 

•Feb. 
24 Marge Piercy following each reading. 

•Feb. 
25 Edward Albee 



" 



Sports 
.. 
.­
page 20 
RICH KURZ 
Happy Happy, Joy Joy 


Knight, Hoosiers solidifying claim to No.1 ranking 
There can be no doubt about it now. The Indiana Hoosiers clearly are playing the best basketball in the country right now. 
Obviously others think so as well, because the Hoosiers have been ranked number one in the AP poll for the past two weeks and will remain atop the polls for a third-straight week on the strength of wins at Penn State and at home against Michigan yesterday. 
The controversial win at Penn State-a Nittany Lion player wrongly was called for a foul with under a minute left. when the Hoosier guarding him should have been whistled-shows just the kind of season it has been for the HoosiHrs so far. 
Even on when they ar!ln't playing their bnst. they can still pull off wins. By overtime, they were playing without their two big men. forcing 6-7 Brian Evans to guard State's 7-1 cent!lr. The Hoosiers were down by six points at various tinws in the extra period. but hung elosn and came baek with the three-point shot. 
But beating Michigan yesterday, sweeping the series with them this year. was the icing on the cake. The Wolvflrines have the superior talent, with future NBA stars like Chris Webber . .Iaten Rose and the rest of the Fab Five, but Indiana proved that superior coaching and teamwork will win in the end. 
Calbert Cheaney will be a first-round draft piek this year, but he may be the only supPrstar on the team. Indiana coach Bob Knight has surrounded his star playN with a group of solid, if not spectacular. basketball players. Each player knows his role and executes it well. 
Matt Nover and Alan Henderson providt) tht; inside scoring and rebounding for the Hoosiers, while Damon Bailey and Greg Graham provide perimeter support. 
Indiana's bench isn't deep. but should one of tlw starters have an off-night, one of the Hoosier back-ups can come off the bench and provide the spark, as freshman Brian Evans did against Miehigan, and was named player of the game. 
Knight is often criticized for his style of coaching and explosive nature, but his tutelage as turned this Hoosier team into one of the leading contenders for tlw national championship. 
His team does the things necessary to win championships-it plays defense and l)xhibits discipline on the offensive end. The Hoosiers work the ball, passing until they find an open man and then converting the basket. 
Moreover, with the exception of Henderson. a sophomore, and Evans, a red-shirt freshman, all of the principal contributors to this club are juniors or seniors. They have spent a significant amount of time under Knight, learning his system and gaining experience. 
Expect to see the Hoosiers make a strong run at the championship. If they can make it through the tough Big 10 season without a loss, they're going to be awfully tough to beat come tournament time. 

INSIDE SPORTS 

Monday, February 15, 1993 

Men's tennis captures Ice Volleys 

By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
Making their presence known on a national level, the sixth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team captured the prestigious Ice Volleys tournament in Bloomington, Minnesota this weekend, beating 23rd-ranked Minnesota on its home court and then downing a tough San Diego squad for the championship. 
"This was an exceptional weekend for us," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss, who praised the total team effort, "It was a very strong tournament and a great win." 
The Irish first faced Minnesota on Friday night in front of boisterous home crowd and battled back to hand the Golden Gophers their first loss of the season, snapping a 16-match winning streak with a 6-1 trouncing. 
They started by winning the doubles point on the strength of wins by seniors 
Williams can't lead Irish over Wildcats 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
Monty Williams could not do it alone, though he tried. 
The senior forward had 28 points and 10 rebounds, but second-ranked Kentucky was just too much. 
• Irish Injuries/ page 14 
"Every play we put on the court, Coach Pitino had them in the right defense," Williams noted. 
Notre Dame stayed close to the Wildcats for 24 minutes, but the Wildcats depth wore down the injury-riddled Irish and coasted to an 81-62 victory on Saturday. 
Williams was virtually un­stoppable in the first half, as he scored 21 of the Irish's 33 points. This effort kept the Irish within nine at the intermission. 
"Monty has been on a tear lately," point guard Ryan Hoover said. "You have to keep giving it to the guy that's hot, and let the other guys feed off him." 
In the opening minutes of the second half the Irish did just that. Williams opened the scoring with a three-pointer to pull the Irish within six. 42-36. However, Jamal Mashburn answered with a three-point play. 
Youth pushes ·women past Lady Flyers 
The Observer/John Bingham Freshman guard Stacy Fields, shown here driving against LaSalle, tied her career high with 14 points against Dayton. 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 

You could say it was a surge of youthful exuberance that lifted the Irish women's bas­ketball team to a 92-80 victory over visiting Dayton Saturday night, as Irish coach Muffet McGraw started two freshmen for the first time this season, producing her 200th career victory. 
McGraw inserted freshman forward Carey Poor into the lineup along with freshman guard Stacy Fields, and the formula worked to a tee, as Poor scored five of the Irish's first seven points and ignited an early 15-6 Irish lead, while Fields' fought off a game-time illness to produce 14 points, tying her career high, 
"I wanted to be as aggressive as I could," noted Fields, who has started 13 out of the team's 21 games, "I just take what I can get, if it's there." 
A crowd of 2,303 was the second-best of the season for Notre Dame, and due to either the Irish's quick start or the wacky antics of the visiting 
Hoover then took a page out of Bobby Hurley's book and sunk a three and was fouled. He converted on the four-point play, but the Wildcats again struck back with a three of their own, this one by Travis Ford. 
Not to be outdone,· Notre Dame's Billy Taylor nailed a trifecta, while Mashburn was whistled for a foul away from the ball. The bucket counted and the Irish retained possession. Williams drained a jump hoo)<. to cut the Kentucky lead to 48-45 with 15:44 nemaining. 
"Monty had a great first half, but he just ran out of petrol," John MacLeod said. 
Williams was not the only one to run out of petrol, as the, Kentucky pressure defense and up-tempo offense took advantage of the depleted Irish bench. 
The Wildcats halted Notre Dame's surge with an 8-0 run, during which both Joe and Jon Ross fouled out. 
With Carl Cozen (foot surgery) and Jason Williams (bruised lung) in street clothes, the Irish were forced to play the last 12 minutes with only six scholarship players. One of these, Malik Russell, missed portions of the 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

see 'CATS/page 18 
Monty Williams slams home two of his 28 points against 2nd­ranked Kentucky as a host of Wildcats observe. 
Chuck Coleman and Will Forsyth at one­doubles and Mark Schmidt and Chris Wojtalik at two-doubles, while senior Ron Hosas and freshman Jason Pun lost their first match of the year at the third spot. 
Despite the opening lead, the Irish win was in jeopardy after Coleman, Schmidt, and Wojtalik all lost the first sets of their matches. Though Wojtalik ended up losing his mateh at live-singles with Dominic Roderiguez 6-4. 1-6, 7-6 (7-5), Coleman came back to down Dean Hlushko 3-6, 7-5, 6-4 at the second spot and Schmidt also rallied, defeating Boss Loel 6-7 (7-5), 6-4, 6-2 at three-singles. 
Then Forsyth won at one-singles, 6-2. 7-6 (7-5) over Rick Naumoff, and Todd Wilson defeated Roger Anderson 6-1, 6­1 in his first opportunity at six-singles sure up the Irish win. 
"It was a terrific effort," said Bay 
see TENNIS/page 1 
Phoenix Suns Gorilla, the large home crowd was spirited. 
Meanwhile, the Irish held the 15-6 lead thanks to Poor's five and four from Fields, and aftPr another inside bueknt from Poor and Audrey Gomnz's first three-pointer. the Irish held their biggest lead at 1H-8. 
But the Irish held a slim 41­39 halftime lead due to hot shooting from the field and the line by senior guard Sherri Saunder and sophomore Janice Roberts. 
However, if the freshman tandem of Poor and Fields was a spark in the early going, it was a couple of sophomores who took over the reins in the second half. 
Leading scorer Letitia Bowen and top reserve Audrey Gomez insured the Irish lead through­out the second-half. with Gomez's perfect three-point shooting (4-for-4) serving as the catalyst for a 1 0-point Irish run that put the game away late in the second-half. 
And after Poor left with foul trouble, Bowen took over in-
see YOUTH/page 14 
• 






