

Wednesday, November 3, 1993• Vol. XXVI No. 42 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
UN must alter for new world order 
By JOSLIN WARREN 
News Writer 
Strong change is necessary for the United Nations and the Security Council if they are to be more effec­tive in solving international conflicts, said Peter Wallensteen, a director at the University of Uppsala in Sweden. 
"You could change the organization in a funda­mental aspect and it would still be operational," said Wallensteen in his lecture on Tuesday afternoon. 
Wallensteen stated that there has been a shift from universalism to particularism. The major pow­ers of the world are no longer concerned with the interests of other major powers, instead they would rather concentrate on their own particular needs. 
"The ambition to build united frameworks is no longer there," said Wallensteen. 
As conflicts are growing in places such as Europe, the United States, in particular, is beginning to with­draw and leave the Europeans to deal with their own affairs. 
"T.he United States should not withdraw and if it does, it should be tied to commitments to the UN to keep it committed to international affairs," Wallensteen stated. 
"Recently, the UN has suddenly and increasingly become an instrument in world affairs," said Wallensteen. 
Out of the 27 peacekeeping operations proposed, 13 have been passed within the last three years. The UN is trying to play a larger role in every aspect of international conflict. In 1986, the UN was involved in only a quarter of all conflicts, today it is one half. 
"A UN presence adds something to the situation which makes it possible to negotiate," said Wallensteen. "It is an international pressure to arrive at some kind of solution." 
But there is a large set of conflicts outside of the 

Virginia, NJ elect GOP governors 
By JOHN KING Associated Press 
Republican George Allen handily won the Virginia governor's race Tuesday, ending 12 years of Democratic rule in Richmond, whil New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio was defeated by Republican Christie Whitman. New York Mayor David Dinkins, waited into the night to learn whether he would be rehired for four more years. 
As a cantankerous off-year politi­cal season came to a close, ballot issues around the nation tested the public mood about crime and taxes -and offered an early look at the climate awaiting 1994 candidates. 


Dramatic turnover in the nation's city halls was a sure bet, as Boston, Detroit, Atlanta and Miami led a long list of open mayoral contests. 
In all, there were races or ballot questions in 29 states; statewide propositions included a school voucher proposal in California, term limits in Maine, a tax repeal in Washington and initiatives in Washington and Texas aimed at 

Voters dictate policy 
By ARLENE LEVINSON Assod;ired Pre$s 
A school voucher initiative in California tested one vision of the future of education, while else­where around the nation Tuesday voters decided issues of tenn limits, gay rights and criminal justice. 
In an off year for electoral poli­tics, propositions dominated the ballot in many places. 
The California school voucher ini­tiative, whichtrailed in pre-election polls, would_ give parents vouchers worth about $~ 600 a year to send
1 

their children to the public or pri­vate school of their choice. When wildfires plaguing Southern 
answering rising public anxiety about violent crime. 
Republicans held out hopes for a sweep of the Big Three contests: the two races for governor and the acer­bic rematch between Dinkins and Republican Rudolph Giuliani. 
Allen's victory in Virginia over Democrat Mary Sue Terry gave the GOP the night's first major trophy. With 51 percent of the vote counted, Allen was comfortably ahead with 59 percent to Terry's 40 percent. 
California flared anew Tuesday, Gov. Pete Wilson ordered polls kept open another two hours in affected districts. 
A Washington state ballot mea­sure promised to send three-time felons to prison for life without parole. Two other measures in Washington were aimed at limiting tax growth. One packed a one-two punch by alsoproposing to kill off a $1 billion tax package that was in­tended to balance the state budget. 
And in Piqua, Ohio, voters consid­ered whether Roxie the miniature potbellied pig ·should be allowed to live in their town. City law forbids agricultural animals. 
The GOP also won Virginia's attor­ney general race, as more than a decade of Democratic dominance in Old Dominion wilted. 
New York and New Jersey were too close for comfort -or safe pre­dictions. Late polls showed Dinkins and Giuliani head-to-head in a city where Democrats outnumber Republicans 5 to 1. However Florio's narrow lead over GOP chal­
see ELECTIONS/ page 4 

Church group says no to gambling 
UN's control, such as internal conflicts. Many By BOB LEWIS 
nations have it written in their state constitutions that all internal conflicts will be handled by their own government. 
"The UN works to intervene in these situations and involve itself as an outside party," said Wallensteen. 
Wallensteen also stated that "the list of failures is longer and more well known" than the successes. The UN was very successful in rebuilding Cambodia, but the public only remembers its struggles in Mogadishu and Bosnia. Thus, when things don't fall into place "the UN does not know what it is sup­posed to do which affects what it does in other situa­tions," said Wallensteen. 
Wallensteen has found that the problem is not "with the peace-keeping operations, the problem is the mandates." 
The permanent five voting members of the Security Council are heavily unequal. Some mem­bers are more important than others and it shows in 
see EUROPE/ page 4 
_As_s_oc_ia_re_d_P_re_ss__________ 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
Riverboat backers promised a glit­tering jackpot worth millions but they underestimated the influence of churches in two Ohio River commu­nities across from Louisville, casino opponents said Tuesday. 
Promises of easy riches, downtown development and jobs failed to sway voters in Floyd and Clark counties, where riverboat measures trailed by sizable margins, said Michael Bailey, head of Indiana Citizens Against Gambling. 
"The power of the pulpit was dra­matically underestimated by politi­cians in this election," said Bailey, a former religious adman who tele­vised graphic anti-abortion cam-

Doing the yard work 
A member of the Notre Dame maintenance crew takes care of the leaves on South Quad. The maintenance crew does a wonderful job of keeping the campus looking beautiful year round. 
paign ads in an unsuccessful bid for Congress last fall. "The pulpit was used in this election as it has not been used in at least 50 years." 
Referendums were held Tuesday in 11 communities, including seven along the Ohio River. State law requires local approval before a riverboat casino can be installed. 
The votes in most cases pitted church-based opponents against backers who touted increased tax revenue and tourism as cures for stagnant local economies. 
With all but one of 56 precincts reporting in Floyd County, the mea­sure trailed 10,970 votes to 9,494, a margin of 7.2 percent. In Clark County, with about 90 percent of the vote counted, no votes outnumbered yes votes 11,352 to 9,362. 
The measure held slim leads in 
Switzerland and Dearborn counties late in the count. 
If the measures prevail, riverboat casinos could open as early as 1995 in Lawrenceburg, a Dearborn County town a few miles from Cincinnati, and Vevay. 
Early returns from Warrick County showed no votes slightly ahead. Early returns from EvansvH!e in Vanderburgh County showed the measure ahead 3,433 votes to 3,018. 
Jeffersonville and New Albany gambling allies touted it as a way for their cities to emerge from the shad­ow of Louisville, Ky., across the Ohio. Churchill Downs hedged its bets against casino competition by seek­ing a riverboat gambling license at Jeffersonville in partnership with a casino operator. 

The Observer/Brian McDonough 

Retired Bishop warns against future bloodshed 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
GREYSTEEL, Northern Ireland 
Clergymen pleaded for peace in Northern Ireland at funerals for seven slain over the week­end, as Britain's prime minister announced plans to meet with the province's leaders. 
Prime Minister John Major will meet with the leaders as part of government efforts to try and revive talks aimed at reaching a compromise in the British-ruled province, the London government an­nounced. 
The announcement re­launched hopes that Catholic and Protestant politicians could meet again with the British and Irish governments -a process that ended last November in stalemate. Sinn Fein was ex­cluded from those talks be­cause of its support for the Irish Republican Army. 
Major has called before for resuming these talks, but each party has spent more effort pursuing its own agenda than on trying to meet to compro­mise. The current violence, however, may inject an urgency into Major's request. 
The village of Greysteel, meanwhile, buried six Catholics and a Protestant who were shot to death Saturday in a local bar. 
The attack was the worst by pro-British Protestants since 1971, when the Ulster Volunteer Force blew up a Catholic pub, killing 15. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
On labels, retnetnber -what -we share 
There are no Irish-·-------....f 

Americans. No Asian­Americans. No African­Americans. 
With America's problems, such as gun control and drugs, at what seems an all­time high, it may seem rather petty to attack labels and political correctness when a more important issue could be addressed
here. 
But the ramifications of 
--------------~ 
these very labels have effects radiating down to the root of one of the pressing issues of our time: identity. 
Identity takes many forms. Some people may lind an identity in their work while others may find their identity in their racial background. Some may even feel that dealing drugs or men­acing people with firearms is their only form o 
identity. This is where a lack of a positive iden­tity can lead to increasingly negative results. These labels add to the growing separation o our society into distinctly different sectors. 
This division contributes more toward the alienation of society as a whole for sake of each individual part. Instead of accenting what is different about each other, we should try to emphasize the similarities we share, and, once we are brought together by our similarities, we can rejoice in our differences and share them with others who may be ignorant of the cultural heritage which is different for each person. 
Let's analyze one of these labels to see where it leads us astray. Take for example the term Asian-American. The very order of the wording implies that being Asian has more importance to the individual than being American. 
I understand that the Asian culture and her­itage are important to the person as a form o identity. Being partially Asian in descent, I hold many of the cultural values and characteristics of Asian society as an important factor of who I am. But I must understand who I am, and where I am. 
Although born in Asia, I have chosen to make America my home. In fact I could probably be considered more American than Asian in many aspects of my life. My allegiance is to America and therefore I consider it to be the predomi­nant factor in my social development. Yet I do not forsake or forget my heritage and back­ground. Therefore I consider myself an American of Asian (and Irish) descent. 
You may claim that this is a question o semantics and that by being so critical is really a useless argument and a waste of time. But there is more to semantics than merely word placement. 
Many immigrants who come to America and seek citizenship do so for all the opportunity available to them in our country. As members of society they tend to take advantage of as much as possible without giving much back in the form of allegiance or patriotism to the nation which provided them with the opportuni­ty. 
Yet as citizens of this great country we must realize that we are all Americans. From the descendants of the Pilgrims to the newly arrived immigrant who has become a citizen, each and every one of us has reason to hold this country in high regard for being the mother of immi­grants. We indeed are a melting pot of back­grounds, but that should not matter when it comes to allegiance. We are all Americans and should hold are allegiance as such. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Suzy Fry Cheryl Ann Moser Nancy Dunn Carolyn Wilkens Sports Kathie Young Rian Akey Accent Viewpoint Matt Carbone 
Michael O'Hara Gerrie Hamilton Lab Tech Graphics Dave Hungeling Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and Val.·arion period~. The Ob)ervcr is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu arc reserved. 
~ 
Michael O'Hara Asst, Viewpoint Editor 
--~----­

The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 

More wildfires erupt as winds rake Southern California 
LOS ANGELES 
New brushfires fanned by fierce desert winds tore through brushland and hillside homes Tuesday, forcing hundreds of resi­dents and schoolchildren to flee. Two peo­ple were badly burned while trying to res­cue animals.Roads jammed as people fled a giant blaze pushing through brush and enveloping homes in the Woodland Hills, Calabasas and Malibu areas 20 miles noi!~west of downtown Los Angeles."We've got ashes falling all around. It's like nighttime over here in Malibu," said Jeffrey Bliss, a spokesman at Pepperdine University in Malibu.More than 500 people were evacuated north of Banning in Riverside County as fire raced over 3,000 acres 80 miles east of Los Angeles, said Bonnie O'Connell, a county fire department spokeswoman.Seventy acres were scorched in the San Bernardino County community of Yucaipa, 60 miles east of Los Angeles. "If it crests the hill, there is a potential threat to homes," fire spokesman Bill Peters said.With winds clocked at up to 53 mph, the new round of blazes erupted as firefighters were consoli­dating their hold on big fires that broke out last week, causing extensive loss of homes especially in Altadena and Laguna Beach.The blaze in Woodland Hills grew rapidly, sending a huge plume of reddish­brown smoke over the San Fernando Valley as it raged through the Santa Monica Mountains."It's heading to be big­ger than the (5,700-acre} Altadena lire," said Steve Valenzuela, a Los Angeles County Fire Department spokesman."At this point the front of the lire is moving very quickly. The wind is pushing the fire rapidly toward the ocean and we are trying to pinch it off."The two injured people were trying to rescue animals from that blaze, Valenzuela said. 

Orthodox Church OKs burial of Lenin 
MOSCOW 
The move to take Vladimir Lenin's body ofT display after nearly 70 years gained momentum Tuesday when the Russian Orthodox Church said burying the Soviet Union's founder would not be a desecration. Although Lenin was an atheist and probably would not be given an Orthodox burial, the church's opinion on such matters is highly influential in Russia. Many Russians have expressed concern that moving Lenin's mummified remains, which are housed in a granite and marble mau­soleum on Red Square, would be a sacrilegious disturb­ing of the dead. Whatever is done, the church hoped that the controversy itself would be laid to rest. Tuesday's statement appealed for "sufficient wisdom, so that the issue should not cause new discord in the society or pre­vent the establishment of peace and accord in Russia." 
New test makes it easier to detect STD 
CHICAGO 
New tests for chlamydia have become so simple, inex­pensive and accurate that all sexually active young men could be routinely tested for the disease, researchers say. A urine test at the doctor's office, costing only a few dol­lars, can detect 75 percent or more of all infections of the sexually transmitted disease. which strikes 4 million Americans annually. Follow-up laboratory tests, also rei-
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 3.
Wednesday, Nov. 3 

Lines separate high temperature zones lor lhe day. 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

40s 30s 
50 

ILL 

FRONTS: 
.....,......... ...&...&.. .....ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1993 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 

Pt9SSUf8 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta Assoctated Press 
H L Dallas 65 52 PhUadelphia 78 61 Athens 63 54 Jerusalem 63 50 Phoenix 88 60 Atlanta 80 64 London 48 43 Reno 60 45 Boston 70 48 Los Angeles 86 64 Rome 68 59
4,~,4Q~Q (t ~ u 

Chicago 53 39 New York 68 54 Toronto 59 50 
Cleveland 57 48 Paris 50 37 Washington. D.C 62 51
VIB AssOCIBied Pross GraphiCSNBI 01993 Accu-Weather, Inc 


tlCALIFORNIA FIRES 
More wildfires erupted in Southern · California Tuesday. Fanned by winds up to 53 mph, some flames already 'were out of control by midmorning. 
KERN 
j LOS ANGELES COUNTY: Flames fanned by Santa Ana winds burn their way through communities of Woodland Hills, Calabasas, Topanga and Malibu -an area 20 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles -on their way to the Pacific Ocean. Luxury homes in the area were in the path of fire. 
j RIVERSIDE COUNTY: More than 500 people were evacuated north of Banning, 80 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, as fire raced over 3,000 acres. 
j SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY: Seventy acres were scorched in Yucaipa, 60 miles east of Los Angeles, in a fire started at 11 a.m. · 
Southern California's major wildfires at a glance (not including Tuesday's fires): 
• 
Acres burned: 171,368 

• 
Structures damaged or destroyed: 830, at least 700 of which were homes. 

• 
People displaced from homes: About 25,000. 

• 
Firefighters and civilians Injured: 62. 

• 
Preliminary damage estimate: $500 million. 


AP/Brlan Sipple, Carl Fox 

atively inexpensive, can detect all false positive results and eliminate unnecessary treatment. The disease is of epidemic proportions among sexually active young adult and adolescent males, said researchers who evaluated various testing methods developed in the last few years. Men who have the disease commonly show no symptoms and are a large reservoir for transmitting the infection. In women, the illness can cause pelvic inflammatory dis­ease, infertility, pregnancy problems and chronic pelvic pain. "We suggest that routine performance of a (simple urine test) in asymptomatic, sexually active, adolescent males and young men be considered during all routine examinations," 
Swearing at cops is protected speech 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Freedom of expression allows citizens protesting police actions to shout profanities at them, the Indiana Supreme Court has ruled. But an attorney for the Indiana attorney general's office says the decision was written somewhat narrowly and shouldn't have much impact. "It still gives police the right to protect public welfare from unreason­able noise," said Mark Jones, chief counsel for criminal appeals. In the 3-2 decision Monday, the state's highest court said profanities yelled at police by those protesting their actions are protected "political speech" under the state constitution. The court said that in many cases citi­zens are permitted to question official government behavior and not face arrest for disorderly conduct. 
. 
Wednesday, November 3, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Notre Dame Job Network ready for student body to use 
BY KATIE MURPHY also give alumni the chance to News Writer fill job vacancies with qualified candidates. After some delay, the Notre "This is something that 
Dame Job Network has been should have been done a long loaded into the University time ago," said Wellmann. 
Computer System and is ready "Everybody wants the students for student use. to have jobs." By entering a particular job, Wellmann and Student field, location or company, stu­Government staff members 
dents can now instantly cross­Christy Frederick, Brian Deeley reference employment or and Erik Won began work on internship opportunities and the Job Network last spring. 
establish contacts with alumni. The first mailing to prospec­
"We wanted to have it up ear­tive alumni participants was Alumni Association, Kitty lier than we did ... but now is sent last semester. The majority Arnold, director of Career and the opportune time to have it of the initial responses, howev­Placement, and Joel Cooper of up," said Nikki Wellmann, stu­er, did not come in until finals the Office of University dent body vice-president. "We week. As a result, "most of the Computing. 
have about 100 jobs currently positions went unfilled," 
listed." according to Wellmann. "They were all big helps on The program, organized by The program was further the project. We actually had a Student Government, is intend­developed over the summer. lot of support," said Wellmann. ed to help students in their Wellmann met with Charles "We just did much of the work 
search for job experience and Lennon, executive director of over the summer, ironing out 
School board reverses ban 
By LIZ FORAN


on pregnant cheerleaders 
News Writer 

Associated Press turn, but did not. 
Hard work and dedication
None of the three banned 
paid off for members of Notre 
HEMPSTEAD, Texas cheerleaders has sought to re­
Dame's Army ROTC Ranger

The school board reluctantly join the squad. They were in 
Challenge Team at a competi­

reversed its ban on pregnant school Tuesday and could not 
tion held near Indianapolis at

cheerleaders, citing threats of be reached. 
Camp Atterbury. 

legal action and a loss of feder­
The team departed on Friday,

al funds. After the girls were kicked off 
Oct. 22, giving up three days of 

"The board believes that the the team, the National 
October Break and the USC

federal government is wrong in Organization for Women filed a 
game in exchange for gruelling

robbing local communities of complaint with the U.S. 
excercise, little sleep and fierce

the power to deal with the inci­Department of Education's civil 
competition. But the twelve

dence of unmarried students rights section. 
men and seven women com­

becoming pregnant," the board Austin NOW leader Hannah 
prising the Ranger Challenge

said in its resolution Monday Riddering cited the 1972 Civil 
Team didn't let this deter them.

night. Rights Act, which says schools 
The Army ROTC Ranger
that receive federal money may 
Challenge Competition is made

On Sept. 28, trustees voted to not bar students from "any 
up of contests in five different

kick four pregnant cheerlead­extracurricular activity on the 
areas: Weapons Asssembly, a 

ers off the 16-member basis of such student's preg­
Physical Fitness Test, Night

Hempstead High School squad. nancy, childbirth, termination 
Reconnaissance Patrolling, a

One girl had an abortion and of pregnancy or recovery there­
Ten Kilometer Forced

would have been allowed to re-from." 
Roadmarch and Orienteering. 
Tired of getting homework1 Then give some! 
N.D. and S.M.C. Seniors: 
Be teachers in the Southeastern United States! 
Informational Meeting: 
•Thursday, November4 at 6:30pm 
•Meet in the Notre Dame Room (on the Secondfloor ofLaFortune) 
If you are unable to attend or have any questions, please contact either Fr. Tim Scully, CSC (1-7052) or Sean McGraw (257-9524). 

the problems with the letter (to the alumni) and setting goals for the database we wanted to have." 
The Office of Career and Placement served in an adviso­ry capacity for the project and helped with any legal consider­ations and the revision of the alumni letter. 
"Any chance that our office has to give more networking opportunities and more infor­mation to the students about possible jobs for students can be a benefit," said Arnold. 
Wendy Sanger, a senior in Breen-Phillips, was the first student to successfully use the service. While on campus dur­ing senior week last semester, Sanger searched through the responses that Student Government had received and found a summer job. 
The men team division one. They took second place out of seventeen teams, coming in first in the Physical Fitness Test and the Ten Kilometer Forced Roadmarch. 
This competition marks the first time that Notre Dame has sent an all women's team to a Ranger Challenge Competition. They not only were the only team comprised entirely of women at the competition, they also are the only all women's team to compete in the Ranger Competition in years. The team 
"It took five minutes to look through the responses from alumni in my area and get in contact with my employer," Sanger said in a letter to Student Government. Sanger found a position in a company's accounting department. 
"The experience I gained is priceless," said Sanger. 
The Job Network is available to all students and is free of charge. It is located in the Student Government file of Turbo Gopher's University of Notre Dame Information. Turbo Gopher is found in all computer cluster Applications servers. Students are encour­age to check the database often, because the opportunities are updated on a regular basis. More information will be avail­able at the clusters. 
Fitness Test and Patr ng. They competed effectively against all male and mixed male and female teams. 
"They proved themselves where it matters the most," said Maj. Roger Norfolk. 
"The women's team winning the Patrolling competion is ex­cellent," Norfolk added. "That's what it's really all about. You may be able to assemble a gun or run several miles. But out in the field, if you can't sneak around to surprise or avoid an enemy, can't be an effec-
ACTOR_S FR_OM THE LONDON STAGE 
HAMLET 

PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL ON THURSDAY, NoVEMBER 4 FRIDAY, NoVEMBER 5 AND SATURDAY, NoVEMBER 6 $14-R.ESERVED SEATS · $10-STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZENS TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL: 631-8128 
...
----------------------------------~------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
Elections 
continued from page I 
Ienger Christie Whitman slipped away as he tried to sur­vive voter anger over a huge 1990 tax increase. The early New Jersey results showed a virtual tie. 
As the candidates joined vot­ers at the polls, their predic­tions were, well, predictable. 
"We're going to win this elec­tion," former federal pros­ecutor Giuliani said as he voted in New York's Upper East Side. 
"I think it will be a elose eon­test, but I expect to emerge vic­torious," Dinkins said as he voted at a high school near Gracie Mansion. 
Next door in New Jersey, challenger Whitman rode a mountain bicyele to her polling place. A cluster of students greeted Florio at his precinct in Princeton. Florio's $2.8 billion 1990 tax hike was the para­mount issue in that race, viewed as a test of whether politicians could overcome pub­lic anger by selling taxes as tough but sometimes necessary medicine. 
Allen's win whittled the Democratic edge in statehouse control to 30-18. Alaska and Connecticut have independent governors. The Democratic ad­vantage will be tested in a big 
Europe 
continued from page I 
the Western dominance of the organization, said Wallensteen. 
To reform the decision-mak­ing procedure of the Council, Wallensteen suggested that the number of permanent members be expanded to seven. 
If an expansion was to occur. 
way next year, when 36 states elect governors. 
The Terry and Whitman can­didacies also were tests of whether the good fortune women candidates enjoyed in 1992 would carry over. In Terry's case it didn't; Whitman has succeeded in becoming New Jersey's first woman gov­ernor. 
A Dinkins loss in New York wouldn't do much to the over­whelming edge Democrats en­joy at city halls, but it would be a remarkable trophy for Republicans nonetheless. In June, Republican Hichard Hiordan was elected mayor in Los Angeles, the nation's sec­ond-biggest city; a Giuliani win would put the biggest city in GOP hands for the first time in nearly a quarter-century. 
Crime was a major issue in the Big Three races. most of the mayoral contests and on several state ballots. 
Texas voters, for example, decided whether to authorize $1 billion in bonds to build more prisons. while Washington voters weighed whether most three-time felons should face mandatory life without parole. 
The crime and tax debates collided in California, where voters chose whether to adopt a permanent halfpenny sales tax and dedicate the money to local police and fire departments. 
the permanent voting positions be abolished and changed to senatorial seats which would be elected for every six years. The seats would be by elected by the General Assembly, so those nations holding seats "would be accountable to the public and the world at large," said Wallensteen. 
It would also decrease Western Europe's domination and allow room for nations 

S&L failure, Clinton dissociates 
By RICHARD KEIL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The White House took the of­fensive Tuesday in an effort to dissociate President Clinton from two fed­eral investiga­tions involving an Arkansas businessman with longtime ties to the first family. 
"We did 
nothingimproper . " Bill Clinton Clinton told reporters after the disclosure that federal investi­gators, among other things, are examining a real estate venture the president and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton once partially owned. 


The White House emphasized the allegations dated to 1992 and that both criminal investi­gations were focused on politi­cal supporters or former busi­ness associates and not the Clintons. 
"The president is not a sub­ject or target of an investiga­tion. That is clear. It is some­thing that was well reported during the campaign," White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said. 
A former Arkansas judge un­der indictment in one of the in­vestigations alleged Tuesday that Clinton was involved per­sonally in persuading him to loan money improperly to James McDougal, a political ally, fund-raiser and friend of the first family. 
The investigations are focus­ing on Whitewater Development Corp. and Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan. both of which are con­nected to McDougal. according to Hesolution Trust Corp. offi­cials who spoke on condition they not be identified by name. 
The Clintons once owned a partial stake in Whitewater, a venture to develop property in the Ozarks. The Clintons have said they lost money in the ar­rangement. 
According to reports in The Washington Post and The New York Times, one of the investi­gations is focusing on whether overdrafts at McDougal's S&L were used to help retire Clinton campaign debts when he was Arkansas governor. 
The second probe is focusing on whether the Whitewater real estate venture ever repaid overdrafts on the thrift's ledgers in 1984 and 1985, the newspapers said. 

Christopher calls Somalia, Haiti failed states and questions future U.S. role 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher called Somalia and Haiti "failed states" Tuesday and questioned whether the United States could keep on spending its resources on them. 
He also struck back at critics in Europe who have called Clinton administration foreign policy hesitant. "The United States has got nothing to apolo­gize for so far as our commit­ments around the world," Christopher said. 
Taking questions after a speech in Los Angeles. 

Christopher said the adminis­tration deserved praise for pro­moting good relations with Russia and also had done well in relations with China and Japan. 
"On our vital interests, I think our positions are very sound," he said. However, he empha­sized there were limits to those interests and singled out Somalia and Haiti as being pos­sibly beyond the reach of U.S. diplomacy. 
"We need to have a national dialogue on how far we ought to go in expending our natural and national resources in deal­ing with failed states around the world," Christopher said. 
The administration has come under attack for keeping U.S. peacekeeping troops in Somalia after hundreds of thousands of Africans had been saved from starvation and for trying to send troops to Haiti to train se­curity forces. 
President Clinton responded to the criticism by setting March 31 as a deadline for withdrawing from Somalia. The administration no longer 
opposes  a  role for warlord  
Mohamed  Farrah  Aidid  in  
forming  a  new  government  

even though he was accused of arranging the slaying of U.S. and Pakistani peacekeepers. 
stated Wallensteen, Germany such as Africa, Asia and South America who are heavily un­
and Japan would most likely be allowed to join. "They provide derrepresented. 
"If you prevent the slide to­more money to peace-keeping 
operations than a majority of ward particularism, you lessen the ability for major powers to
the present permanent mem­suppress particular interests
bers who are more concerned and, ultimately, those interests
with military spending," he 
of the whole will emerge," said
said. Wallensteen suggested that Wallensteen. 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (Aprill994, September 1994,january 1995) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in a a life or health science degree program. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. A more competitive G.P.A. is favored. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 
• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Awell-rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


__...,....,,,+, Call: 1-800-888-4777 or ~,(1'13 Write: Director o(Adm~ssions 
,,, ,;,.~·' 2501 West 84th Street, Mmneapohs, MN 55431 




The Observer/Brian McDonough 

Arabs show toward their guests. According to Amar, this is the result of the Middle Eastern belief that good for­tune and material wealth are not the results of labor, but rather "blessings from God" that should be shared. 
Amar related the story of two American exchange students who told a Lebanese family that they were very impressed by the family's Oriental carpet. The family then insisted upon presenting the carpet -a that these rules are not univer­sal," and they do not expect foreigners to be able to obey them. He described Arabs as "liberal" regarding the obeyance of these rules by out­siders, and noted that this was especially so in the case of Americans. Amar said that, in spite of what the media seems to tell us, Americans are "among their favorite people." 
Professor Amar teaches Arabic and Aramaic at Notre Dame. 
Pumping iron 

Freshman Chris Sellars of St. Edward's Hall bench presses in the weight room of the Rockne Memorial. Weightlifting is a popular activity among students who want to stay fit and trim during the winter months. 
England to ordain women in '94 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Women could become priests in the Church of England as early as next year after the House of Lords, Parliament's unelected upper chamber, passed a measure Tuesday al­lowing their ordination. 
The passage of the measure ends a debate that severely split England's church at a time when its influence on national life is waning and its congrega­tions are dwindling. 
The elected House of Commons approved the mea­sure last week. 
The chamber was so crowded that some bishops had to stand as Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey urged the Lords to back the ordination measure Tuesday. 
The ordination of women is 


MOVIE NIGHT 
The Law Firm of 
Ford, Cruise, Hackman Pesci & Close 
presents an all-night tribute to law in the movies. 
On the docket: 
9:00pm 
11 :20pm 1:20am 3:30am 5:20am 
A Few Good Men My Cousin Vinny Presumed Innocent Jagged Edge Class Action 
November 6, 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom It's Fun, Free and Perfectly Legal! 

"a visible sign of the inclusion of all humanity in the priestly ministry," said Carey, spiritual head of the Church of England. "It is the humanity of Christ which is important, not his maleness." 
The measure passed auto­matically without a vote after the Lords rejected an amend­ment opposing the ordination of women by a vote of 135 to 25. The measure now only needs formal consent by Queen Elizabeth II and is expected to go into effect in 1994. 
The Church of England has had an all-male priesthood since Henry VIII split with the Pope and created it in the 16th century. Because it is the state church, changes to its rules need to be passed by Parliament. 
The Church of England is the mother church of the Anglican Church, which has 70 million members worldwide. Twelve of the Anglican Church's 28 self­governing provinces, including the U.S. Episcopal Church, al­ready have women priests. 
After years of wrangling, the governing General Synod of the Church of England voted for the ordination of women priests in November last year. 
Those in the Church who op­pose women priests have threatened to break away and either regroup on their ov.n or join the Roman Catholic church, which does not allow women priests. 
There are 1,000 women dea­cons in the church. Under pre­sent church rules, they can do everything a priest can except bless the bread and wine at Holy Communion, give bless­ings in the name of God and absolve people of their sins. 


Wednesday, November 3, 1993 


Wednesday, November 3, 1993 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
German authorities apologize to Washington Schoolboy 
American athletes in Oberhofbecome targets of neo-Nazi attack confesses to 
By FRANK BAJAK 
Associated Press 
OBERHOF, Germany 

The government apologized to Washington Tuesday for a neo-Nazi assault on U.S. ath­letes visiting Germany, and lo­cal businessmen met in this winter resort to discuss the at­tack's effect on tourism. 
At the meeting, Mayor Harmut Goebel nearly fell over while sitting down, apparently exhausted by the assault that has put his little village at the center of a storm of outrage. 
"We must make it clear to the world that these brown hordes have no roots here," he told the meeting. Brown is the color associated with Nazis, due to the brown shirts that early Nazis wore. 
Indeed, although the attack took place Friday in Oberhof, where the U.S. national luge team was training, the young skinheads responsible were from a larger town six miles away called Suhl. 
In the attack, the skinheads beat up U.S. national luge team member Duncan Kennedy and taunted and insulted his black teammate, Robert Pipkins. 
The attack has humiliated Germany and underscored its 
TONIGHTATTHE ALUMNI SENIORO..UB". 
senior class dinner 
7tJO 
FREE PAPAfOHN'S PIZZA 
AND_ 
FREE WINGS 9-ll 
AND_ 
AT 10s00 c a n d y f 1 i p 

inability to stop neo-Nazi vio­the Friday melee at a bar was lence. the first time Americans had 
been physically attacked. 
In Bonn, the federal govern­Kennedy has identified three ment sent a letter Tuesday to of his attackers. Five were ar­the Americans abhorring the rested, but four were subse­"disgraceful act." quently freed. Prosecutors said 
Sports authorities from they don't yet have conclusive Germany's 16 states also sent a evidence to put all five behind letter of apology to U.S. bars. Ambassador Richard U.S. diplomats say they are Holbrooke, and Goebel drafted confident German officials take a similar letter to President the incident seriously and will Clinton that he said would be deal with it appropriately. But delivered on Wednesday. some acknowledged privately 
About 4,800 far-right attacks that much of the problem -mostly against foreigners -comes of a weak administrative have been reported in Germany structure in eastern Germany since 1991, with 26 deaths. But in the wake of unification. 
Israel maintains presence, PLO suspends peace talks 
By WILLIAM MANN 
Associated Press 
TABA, Egypt 
The PLO walked out of peace talks with Israel on Tuesday, accusing the Israelis of trying to back out of an agreement to withdraw from occupied lands. 
Nabil Shaath, the PLO's chief 



JUST SAY YES! 
An upbeat program of music and comedy 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1993 "THE HUDDLE" 7 P.M.-9 P.M. 
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING: ACOUSTIC CAFE 
t.]ic~as production.,<; ' 

their anger over the Israeli position on withdrawal. 
The talks in Taba, in their fourth round, are meant to de­fine how Israel will transfer some powers to Palestinians in Gaza and Jericho under terms of the Israeli-PLO accord. 
Tuesday's dispute grew from maps and withdrawal plans the Israelis presented Monday, and apparently centered on Israeli access to roads to protect Jewish settlements in Gaza. 
Jewish settlers, saying their government has abandoned them to make peace with Palestinians, waged four days of violent protests in the occu­pied territories beginning Friday. The settlers did not take action Tuesday. 
The autonomy agreement called for Israel to start with­drawing its troops from Gaza and Jericho by Dec. 13, but gave it permission to maintain security over Israeli settlements in the vacated territories. 
"We feel that the Israeli in­terpretation of that agreement is quite failing to grasp the meaning of withdrawal and its requirements," Shaath said. 
"The agreement provided for withdrawal by the Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip and the Jericho area, and not within the Gaza Strip and Jericho area," Shaath said in announc­ing the suspension of the talks to reporters. 
killing child 
By KARIN DAVIES 
Associated Press 
PRESTON, England 

A 10-year-old boy told police he and a friend beat a toddler to death as the bleeding child tried to stagger to his feet be­side a deserted railroad track, a prosecutor said Tuesday. 
Prosecutor Richard Henriques also told the court that the two boys on trial for the murder of James Bulger, 2, had a "fluent capacity to tell lies" and tried to blame each other. 
The defendants, now 11. and referred to in court as "Child A" and "Child B," knew what they were doing was terribly wrong, he said. 
Both boys have pleaded inno­cent to murdering James, whose body was found cut in two near the rail line after he was abducted from a shopping mall in Liverpool in February. But Henriques, on the second day of the trial, said one of them confessed during police questioning. 
The two pudgy dark-haired boys, 10 years old at the time of James' death, are the youngest children to be charged in Britain with first­degree murder. 
Britons were outraged by the murder and shocked at the age of the suspects. Witnesses who saw two boys drag James to the rail line said the older chil­dren told them the dirty, crying toddler was their brother or a lost child they were taking to police. 
Child B fidgeted and cried as Henriques spelled out more details from the police account of James' horrifying last hours. 
His divorced parents sobbed as they sat side-by-side on a wooden bench. His father hunched almost double as the prosecutor described how the boy finally confessed after swearing innocence to his mother. 
Henriques said Child B, dur­ing questioning by police in front of his mother and a legal adviser, at first denied ever seeing James. 
On the occasion of its 25th year of publication, Religion and Literature presents 
Rev. john Dunne, c.s.c:. 
The John A O'Brien Professor of Theology, author of TheSwrh fiJr Gal in Time and Memory and Time and Myt}l, lecturing on his most recent book, .LoYcl Mind­
"Contemplation: The Missing Dimensionn 
Wednesday, November 3 3:30p.m. Morris Inn Banquet Room 
Reception Following 
.....-----------------~­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, November 3. 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin llardrnan  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................Merdirh McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Hero man  
Viewpoint Editor ............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager ..................... Sreph Goldman  
Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Parrick Barch  
Photo Editor .................................jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
S;Unt Mary's Editor ............. jennifer llabrych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the indcpendl'llt newspaper published by the srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administrJ­tion of either institution. The news is reponed a. accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials repre)cnt thC' opinion of d1t' majority of the Editor· in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, l'horo Editor, Spom Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommC'ntaries, lcttC'rs and Inside Columns present thC' views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Vicwpoim space is availJhlc: w all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and lO all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Obseaer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accem/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoinr  (,31-4541  Day Ediwr/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4S43  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
Nr:ws/Phmo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Attack on 'disgusting' homosexuality is deplorable 
Dear Editor: 
Law student Andrew Feske's analysis of two recent articles ("Two 'mediocre' pieces con­done homosexuality", The Observer, Oct. 19) is so flawed and distorted that I felt I had to comment. Feske attacks both a front-page article containing statements from Notre Dame professors and a National Coming Out Day piece by "Desiderata" columnist Kirsten Dunne. 
Feske misses the point of the front-page article entirely when he states that the Notre Dame professors violated Catholic teaching by supporting a state­ment which affirmed the right of gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the ND/SMC com­munities to live, study, and work in an environment which is safe, supportive, and pro­vides freedom from abuse, harassment, or violence. 
Note that the statement is about people, not sexual activ­ity. What, then, makes it in­consistent with Catholic doc­trine? 
Feske further asserts that gays and lesbians have no place in a "real" family, which sup­posedly consists of a married man and woman and their chil­dren-period. All gay and les­bian people have families, whether they be the ones into which we are born or the ones we create (that may or may not include children) later in life. 
Any family in which mutual love, respect, support, caring, and compassion are present is a real family, regardless of whether all its members are biologically and immediately related. Feske's simplistic view also ignores the fact that the nuclear family has been cre­ated by Western society, not by 
DOONESBURY 
nature; in other cultures and times, people have formed other types of social units which have been just as real to them. 
The arguments used against Dunne's column are equally careless. Feske accuses Dunne of generalizing in her state­ments about homophobia and then goes on to say that "homo­phobia.... is, like many other terms, an attempt by liberals to refine reality by ignoring nature". 
Now who is doing the gener­alizing? What are those "other terms"-sexism, racism, or anti-Semitism, perhaps, which "ignore" the "natural superior­ity" of men over women, Caucasian over other races, Christianity over Judaism? 
I suppose that any term which might chip away at the controlling power of those who call the shots in our society might seem somewhat threat­ening to some individuals. 
Feske's insistence that the Bible cannot, as Dunne sug­gests, be interpreted in accor­dance with modern principles is utterly ridiculous. 
If the Bible and other ancient texts are to be used to decide issues of morality in the present day, then one must realize that the Biblical authors and classi­cal philosophers were in­fluenced by (a) 2000-year-old cultural beliefs that no longer apply in the current century, (b) a lower level of scientific knowledge and various forms of prejudice resulting from a lack of information, and (c) an over­whelming concern for the sur­vival of people at a time in his­tory when underpopulation and high mortality rates made pro­creation of utmost importance. 
Also, contrary to Feske's be-liefs, homosexuality is not un­
I CAN'T /Jei../5V& IT/ I UJA? HOtuARP 57ei?N'5 6RANllii10THa< IN A  ISN'T THAT  Y~AH. E:SP£n/JIJ.,Y 5/NC&5TCFN  
PASTt.lf~, ANI?NOWIM uProt< AMovte 1  IQEIRP, 511/?  P&R9JNAUY HANI?PICI<EI?  
ABOUT  YOU FORTH~  
HIM.'  ROt£.  


Students should demonstrate open­
natural; homosexual and bi­sexual behavior may be ob­

served in many animal species. mindedness toward homosexuals 
Finally, and perhaps worst of all, Feske finds it necessary to Dear Editor: refer to homosexuality as "dis­I don't want to review all the gusting" no less than three 
debatable statements made bytimes in the course of his anal­first-year law student Andrew ysis, just in case we missed it 
Feske (The Observer, Oct. 19),the first time around. 
it would take too much space,He insists that he does not but two of them merit particu­fear homosexuals or feel lar attention; he says: " ... one 
threatened by the concept of 

would suppose that a Catholic 
homosexuality; he just doesn't college would follow Rome in like them. If memory serves, 
these matters... ", of course we this is the same person who 
all know that Notre Dame is a wrote the letter comparing gays "Catholic college", but the peo­to serial killers. 
ple should realize that Notre 
I do not, of course, find ho­

Dame is not a seminary but a mosexuality to be disgusting. modern university, a universi­What I find disgusting is the 
tas, the alma mater of human 
fact that lesbians and gay men thinking. are harassed, abused, discrim­inated against, injured or killed, made the brunt of jokes ' In order to commit an and slurs, and made to feel that 
act of violence one 
our lives are less than valid, our relationships don't count, doesn't need to material­and we are somehow less than 
ly touch someone.' 
fully human. I find it disgusting that sui­
cide is the leading cause of death among gay and lesbian youth who have so internalized the messages of hatred that they no longer feel they deserve to live. 
Did Feske ever stop to think about what his misinformed analysis did to the self-esteem and self-worth of lesbian and gay students on these two cam­puses who read The Observer that day? It's sad that someone who plans on entering the legal profession values absolutist, self-righteous moral preaching over critical thought regarding human dignity and human life. 
KELLY A. SMITH 
Saint Mary's College Off-Campus 

WHY DO I PeeL­VIOLATW? 
\ 

As a Catholic institution, it could be understandable if this University wouldn't advocate homosexuality; however, it wouldn't be proper for such an academic institute not to accept the fact that homosexuality ex­ists and that some members of the "big ND family" belong to this group of people with their own sexual orientation. 
Feske also says: "...I do not advocate violence against ho­mosexual or harassment, they should not be recognized in any way as a legitimate minor­ity ... ", " ... I think that homo­~exua.~it~. is absolutely disgust­mg... , ... to condone homo­sexuality...it is a blunder worse than a crime." If homosexuality is worse than any crime, then maybe Feske has not read the newspaper lately! 
If language is used to express our thoughts, and if words mir­ror feelings, then based on Feske's wording I suppose that while though he doesn't advo­cate violence he eould accept it in the same way as people watched and cheered as young Skinheads burned down public housing for refugees two years ago in Bostock (former East Germany). 
In order to commit an act of violence one doesn't need to materially touch someone! 
I believe that at the Law School, and at ND in general, the vast majority of the student body and faculty has a more mature and professional ap­proach to all issues which di­vide modern society. It is to hope that l'eske and all the in­dividuals like him will be able to take real profit out of the years at Law School, trying to do what apparently they missed at college: expand their minds. 
I doubt that anyone who is not open minded and who can­not go beyond his personal be­liefs will ever be able to emerge from the "gray" majority, so my modest advise to every student, here at Notre Dame, is to look further than your "parochial" environment and to utilize the great opportunity which you have here: the free and relaxed exchange of ideas and experi­ences of different people with different backgrounds. 
ANDREAGEAT 
Law School Student 
O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU'R& 
HI56RANP­
M07Htl<. UJiiATW 
YOU&X­
P&CT? 
''Beware! To touch these wires is instant death. Anyone found doing so will be 
d,

prosecute . 
Sign at a railroad station 

r 
ACCENT 
Wednesday, November 3, 1993 page 9 
Innovative teaching 

By JENNIFER GUERIN Accent Writer 
Across the nation, schools and educators are being chal­lenged, if not haunted, by prob­lems whose complex roots often lie outside of the school system itself, in the basic values and structures of society. 
Forced to consider not only the intellectual development but also the discipline and physical safety of their stu­dents, many teachers have car­ried the burden of the nation's economic and social problems. 
' 1 am so convinced that 
education, at the pri­mary and secondary level, is eroding in this country. 
Fr. Tim Scully, C.S.C. 
public schools. 
"I am so convinced," ex­plained Scully, "that education, at the primary and secondary levels, is eroding in this coun­try." 
He noted that although few are accepted, the tremendous number of applicants to pro­grams like Teach for America and the Washington Teaching Corps each year has sent a clear message to the country. 
"There is a demand from stu­dents to get serious about edu­cation," he insisted. 
Motivated by a desire to channel this existing demand into action, while simultane­ously addressing the needs of resource-poor Catholic schools, Scully brought his concerns and ideas before the U.S. Catholic Conference of Bishops and the National Catholic Education Association (NCEA) last year. 
Both groups ratified his hunches and offered to support the new program. 
University, Scully engaged in dialogue with dioceses in the southeastern United States, seeking schools to participate in the new ACE initiative. 
Modeled after the Washington Teaching Corps, ACE plans to send teachers into poorer rural areas, offering placements in approximately eight dioceses across Georgia, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Alabama, and Florida. 
Each participating diocese has agreed to fund the teachers with an annual salary as well as a modest stipend which may be applied towards further education at the end of the pro­gram. 
In addition to these payments, teachers will be provided with accommodations, training, and insurance benefits. 
The southeast was a particu­larly attractive geographic area to Scully, primarily because it could "absorb" the new teach­ers, providing them with both a in great need of help, he ex­plained, but the teachers and superintendents there also have proven their eagerness to serve as mentors for ACE par­ticipants. 

When Scully and others met with the Catholic Conference of Bishops and the NCEA in early October in Louisville, Kentucky, the number of schools repre­sented at the meeting far ex­ceeded the number originally invited. 
"They were so excited about it," he said, explaining that the size of the program itself has expanded based on the demand from southern dioceses. 
Community living will be an essential component of the ACE program, and according to Scully, will serve as an asset and a unique advantage over existing secular programs. 
Each diocese will accommo­date three or more participants under one roof, as well as a mentor and spiritual director or spiritual environment," said Scully. "It's important that they have a community life and a prayer life." 
' I think that [Catholic 
schools] can try innov­ative teaching in a way that isn't possible in sec­ular schools.' 
Fr. Tim Scully, C.S.C. 

Scully and ACE administra­tors foresee a pilot program of two years, during which the size and success of the program will be evaluated. 
Although they expect in­evitable "kinks," noted Scully, the organizers envision a na­tional program open to all Catholic schools and students, providing an exciting new av­enue for addressing America's 
In an effort to quell growing waves of desperation and dis­content about the future of the country's schools and its chil­dren, service programs have been developed that recruit en­ergetic college graduates to ap­ply their skills for the benefit of failing systems, especially in urban areas. 
College graduates have ap­plied for teaching positions with secular programs like Teach for America in record numbers over the past few years, signal­ing what many have heralded as a new generation of young people committed to education. 
But the problems addressed by programs like Teach for America are not confined to the public school system, claims Father Tim Scully, C.S.C., Notre Dame government professor. 
Scully is the founder of the newly-forming Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), which seeks to give interested college graduates the opportu­nity to teach in parochial schools in programs similar to the secular ones that have re­ceived so much national atten­tion. 
Scully insists that parochial schools, traditionally depend­able educational institutions and ladders for social mobility, now share the burdens of vio­lence and inadequacy plaguing 
Along with a group of semi­needy and supportive environ­advisor. narians and administrative rep­ment. "We believe that teachers resentatives from the These dioceses are currently should live in a supportive education needs and creating what he called "lifetime advo­cates for Catholic education." 

Openly frustrated about the condition of America's schools, Scully expressed his view that supporting parochial schools will not serve as an escape from the current setbacks in public education reform, but rather as a necessary and viable alternative to public schools. 
Unencumbered by the legal and organizational bureaucracy that he considers an impedi­ment to progress in public schools, ACE will be more open to creative methods and pro­grams proposed by dedieated young teachers. 
"I think that we can try inno­vative teaching in a way that isn't possible in secular schools," remarked Scully, when asked to address the ad­vantages enjoyed by a Catholic program like ACE. 
Scully enthusiastically calls on interested students to attend 
-
an informational meeting on Thursday, November 4, at 6:30 
p.m. in the Notre Dame rocim of Lafortune. 
Students unable to attend are urged to call Father Tim Scully, C.S.C., at 631-7052, or Mr. Tom Doyle at 631-4112. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center . 
... 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 

I NOTICES I I FOR RENT I '==========:::-----' KOONTZ RoOsE BED &BREAK- For Sale: GA's for all games. 1659.  277­ cents per character per day, including all spaces. 4 Fla. St. Stud Tix for sale--Best 2 Hot Babes selling 2 FRONT ROW offer for one or all. Call x4436. FSU Student tixsl I D's optional ­let's negotiate! 634-9437  Hey all you SEAGULL fans! Now, for the moment you've all been waiting for ....  
Typing  FAST located 23 miles south of  I NEED FLA STATE GA'SIII  Need 4 BC GAs. Will trade stud.  WHAT DO YOU CALL AN OCEAN­ 
287-4082  Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz  CALL •• 232· 5030 ••  2 Sr. FSU & BC tix 4 sale  FSU ticket plus$$$. Tara 4376  GOING BIRD ...  
Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4  232-4112 Liz BO  1) ...who stars in Karate movies?  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  rooms, full breakfast ·week-end  R.T. Ticket S.B. to Boston. Leave  •..4 Sale'.. FSU stud BO by 11/5  ...Stephan Seagull ...  
CALL 259-8684.  getaway  11/17, return 11/21. $200 or BO.  284-5542  2) ...who writes love stories?  
219-586-7090  Call271-1623.  ...Eric Seagull ...  
Resumes Lisa 273-6332  I need 4 STUD Tix for BC game!  3) ... who studies under Colleman  
ILOST & FOUND I  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153  NEED 2 F. ST GA'S FOR RICH COUSINS $$$ JIM 232-3807  Please call x12601 1 Stud. Ticket 4 Sale-Best Offer  $$TO BURN?? 4 FSU GA'S FOR SALE CALL ROB AT X3249  McCarthy or George Lopez? ...peac-eagull... 4) ... that is cold and cherry-fla­ 
Call Christy x2966.  AND LEAVE AN OFFER  vored?  
Very Lost: A small, black leather  Seeking rommate to share house.  Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted!  ...pops-eagull'..  
bag with a shoulder strap. that con­ $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev.  Please call (407)438-3697  2FSU GA's and stud.tix 4sale Ricky  2 FSU STUD. TICKETS FOR  5) ... that went on the Washington  
tained a Nikon camera lens, as well  x3515  SALE. CALL #1560  seminar?  
as instructions. Not really sure  Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20  FSUGA  ...D.C.-gull'..  
where It could be ... If you have  Min from ND Stadium $200 a week­ 40 yd In, row 24  4Sale: 3FSU stu tics, 2 are married,  FOR SALE 2 FLORIDA ST. GA'S.  Stay tuned.  
seen It, please call Brian at  end 616-699-7137  NEED I SAY MORE?  BC as bonus. (616)383-9366.  BEST OFFER BY 11/1 0.  
113363. Thanks!  Tim@ 608·255-2175  (401) 847 " 2173  
NEED LODGING • GAMES OR  Florida State stud. ticket  BAD GAS is a serious problem ­ 
ANY ND OCCASION· CALL 291­ NEED 1 OR2  for sale call Julie x3948  Top$ Fla State GAs 313 981-0238  it is not something to be laughed at!  
LOST -Long dangle clip earrings @  9011  BOSTON COLLEGE TIX  
SMC computer lab. Call Val 284­ CALL 634-2856  NEED 2 BC G.A.  2 Good Samaritans selling FSU  How would you like it if you couldn't  
4395  6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS  CALLJIM x1786  stud tix 284-5409 by Fri.  go uphill because you had bad  
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.  gas?  
WANTED  1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW OR NEXT FALL.272·6306  Need BC Tickets!  FOR SALE 273-9838  2 FSU, 2 BC GA'S.  For sale: FSU -BC stu tix. Best offer. Call Tara 284-5197.  I'll tell you one thing ......  
x2846  my brother has got the biggest  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up  Lodging-Riverfront-Private.  'package" you've ever seenI!I  
to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career  257-9101.  FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ 
employment available. No experi­ 2 FSU GA'S·TAKING BEST  ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER.  
ence necessary. For more informa­tion 1 -206-634-0468 ext. C5584  FOR SALE  OFFER-JON 215-630-9329  CALL DOUG AT 234-6306.  NEEDFSUTIX  I'll tell you another thing ...  
FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV.5  FLO ST GA 2 pairs $1600/pair 634·  STUORGA  you're nothin' but trouble!  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  Spring Break! Plan Early • Save  CALL WADE -0789  2193  Call Collect (914)294-6546  T-R-0-U-B-L·E trouble that's youl  
find out how hundreds of students  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  Ask For Dennis  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  Increase 111151 Bahamas Cruise 6  FSU Sen. Stu!l. Tck for sale. Leave  Are you gonna change me. Peter?I  
and LOTS OF CASH with  days lncludes12 meals $2791  FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC  name,#, offer. 273-5909-Pete.  
America's 111 Spring Break compa­ Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  FOR SALE  Have you seen Ernest Borgnine's  
ny! Choose Cancun. Bahamas,  Cancun from Chicago $439.  #1 vs. #2 -it's worth every penny!  I NEED MONEY  wife's skin ..... It's BEAUTIFUL!! !I  
Jamaica. Panama, Daytona or  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  Call Levell at 3305-let's negotiate  (and I've already posed for calen­ 
Padre! CALL NOWI TAKE A  West $239, Daytona Room w/  dars)  
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  FSU STU. TIX FOR SALE  For Sale: 2 FSU Stud Tix  
(800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any  B/0 BY 11/5 ..... CALL  Call x2312  have you ever considered the  
FOR SALE: MICROSOFTWORD  home game. Call Aaron @ 272­ STEVE@41644  problem might be you?  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  5.1 FOR MACINTOSH. FACTORY  3418  For Sale: 1 FSU Stud Tic  
'941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI·  SEALED. CALL 273-8519 TO  Call x2312  
DA. S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE  MAKE AN OFFER.  2 FLA ST TCKTS ROW3 BEST  
PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS·  OFFER CALL TODD W (513)771­ Joy  
SIONS/SERVICEI SUN SPLASH  WHY PAY RETAIL?  FOR SALE: 2 FSU tix  5871 AFTER 8PM  (what else? what else?)  
TOURS 1-800-426-7710  MAC MICE FOR SALE $20  Moira x1275 or Ceila x1281  FSU STUD. TIC FOR SALE. B/0.  and pain  
STEVE X41644  Akron, Ohio fan needs 2 FSU tick­ CALL 4-4902.  
Babysitter wtd. for occas wkend &  ets. Call collect 216-633-1 072,  
wknts. 232·5388  SNOW SKIS Rossignal 7S 203cm  Need two std tickets for Florida St.  Francis, after 9pm please.  1 FSU Stud Senior  
w/ Marker Bindings Call KJ @ 232­ Will pay $100 per. If interested, call  Pis bid thru 11/7, x2164  MMMMMMMMMM •· TOASTIII  
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  7838  277-4817  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991·0889  
Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go  (MARK)  4 FSU GA's for sale  
FREEl Best trips & prices!  Need FSU Stu. & GA  Eric x1087  Call w/offer x2264  
Bahamas. Cancun, Jamaica,  1984 RED HONDA CIVIC, 2 DOOR  2 FSU ST TIX 4 SALE  For your listening pleasure ...  
Panama City! Great Resume expe­riencel1·800-678-63861  HATCHBACK. GOOD SHAPE.$2500.  FSU GA4Sale  X2343 LEAVE BEST OFFER  ..  Willing to pay big $$$ for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's.  A few selections from the European  
CALL ESTEBAN '3419.  Call Kevin 310-444-9923  Call Pat @ 273-5094  songbook ...  
SPRING BREAK '94· SELL TRIPS,  
EARN CASH & GO FREEl! I Student Travel Services Is now hir­ SEE THE WORLD FOR $100! anywhere btween Chic. and  Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. GA's. Call Dan X1694  ND I FSU STUDENT TICKETS 4  PERSONAL  
ing campus reps. Call @800-648·  Port. ,OR. Amtrak tic. 2545  SALE! CALL X3506.  Golla little change in my pocket  
4849.  1 FSU Stud. Tik 4 Sale  Consider a life of patient love from  goin' jing-a-ling-a-ling  
2 FSU GA's 4sale  Make Offer  Mike x4246  Mom, financial security from Dad,  Call you on the telephone--give you  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  BEST OFFER  x3489  Yeah!II FSU tix 4 sale, GA's & stud  laughter and music in a country  a ring  
EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE  Call Tom@254·9068  home for your baby. Please call  My honey, my baby. don't put my  
WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  TICKETS  1 FSU GA 4SALE. Best offer by Nov. 7. Mike 219-634-1187  NEED 1 FSU Stu Tik  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 anytime.  love on no shelf Don't gimme no lines, and keep  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  x4097  your hands to yourself!  
HOLIDAY. SPRING AND SUMMER  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK·  Adoption: Doctor and professor will  
SEASONS. GUARANTEED  ETSI 2 GAs for, FSU. and BC call:  Interested in FSU tickets??  ••••••FLORIDA STATE* ......  make dreams for your baby come  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929·  A. Raczkowski  STUDENT TICKET  FOR SALE  true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  
4398 EXT31  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  How about two FSU for $3? -for a  call now--supplies limited  city; summer by the beach: Your  Hey--won't ya play  
with jobs -will pay big $$$1  raffle ticket.  call JAMIE at  x1778  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­ Another somebody done somebody  
Each ticket earns the bearer a  make me a good offer, and it is  place in winter, and by ocean  wrong song  
EARN $2500 FREE TRIPS!  Need 2 GAs for any home game  chance to win two FSU tix.  yours !II  waves in summer. Art, music, the  And make me feel at home while I  
Student Holidays, the nation's  Call Tim at 273-1757  best education, endless love. Call  miss my baby  
leader In Spring Break vacations.  Tickets are available thru  Franny or Stephen collect  While I miss my baby ...  
seeking enthusiastic, highly moti·  Sophomore Class Council Dorm  Need 4 Stu. Tix. for BC Call  (212)369·2597  
vated students and fraternities to be  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR USC &  Representatives.  Colleen x42785  
the Notre Dame reps. EARN HIGH­ FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  Northern girls are FUNII II  
EST COMMISSIONS AND TRAV­ Drawing is Nov. 8 at La Casa de  I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON  Piccadilly talkadilly  
EL FREEl Cancunl Daytona Beach!  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ Amistad.  COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306  FREE DAVE McMAHON  Piccadilly talkadilly  
CALL NOW 1·800·360-TRIPI  LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221·  Cheep cheep cheep  
6183.  FSU and BC Stud Tix 4 sale!!! Call  You can pick your friends  Talk a lot piccadilly more  
232-2843 and leave best offer. Will  And you can pick your sister's nose  
NOW HIRING­ We will purchase at handsome  sell to best offer by 11/5/9311  But you can't pick your sister.  
WINGS, ETC.  price four seats together for the  NEED 2 FLA. ST. STUDS. II!!!  
Smiling faces, servers, cooks, dish­ Florida State game. Pis. call (800)  CALL MIKE @ 271-1706  FOR SALE:  Did you know?  B  E  S  S .....  
washers. all shifts. Will train. Apply  457-0486.  ###########################  Two Florida State GA's  You is my woman now  
at our newest location:  Will call back best five offers.  Harvey Leo is now 21.  
6502 N. Grape Road.  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  I STILL HAVE AN FSU GAl CALL  
STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  MEG AT 2773 WITH BEST  Call Brian at 273-4865.  Hey Fun Girt-­ 
OFFER.  (Call before Wednesday Nov. 8)  Did you need to borrow a Gilette  Guinness is good for you!!  
Wholesale Book Distribution seek­ 92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  Sensor?  SPRING 1993 LONDONERS:  
ing part-time workers. Hours flexi­ to FLORIDA ST $$$.  call Pony at 277-5612 to receive  
ble to meet your schedule. Call  800-222-5546 ext. 555·5562.  2 FSU GAs and Parking Pass for  special information ...  
232-8500.  FOR  SALE  sale. Best offer by 11111.  And now, it's time for a very short  
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  Call Dave, 4-2246.  book ...  
Call Frank or John  2 FSU GA'S  
FREE RENT FOR GRAD STU·  1-800-749-5975  SELL 2 FSU GAs South Corner  Team SWAP-Bitter, Chainsaw.  
DENT. DUTIES: SHOW AND  Will trade DISNEY tickets  CALL 634-3554  Serious$$$ only  277-5912  Solid Gold, Hurler, Cig, Vader, &  
RENT OUT 6 HOUSES, DO  AND LEAVE MESSAGE ...  the rest of the Dirty Dozen- OK, so it's Thursday night and I'm  
MINOR REPAIRS, TAKE CARE OF  I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's  Top 10 Quotes from Harlan  comin' down Westbourne Grove on  
LAWNS, AND CALL SERVICEMEN  call Beth@ X2615  the way back from the Frog and  
FOR MAJOR REPAIRS (15·20  10. Is it flush?  Firkin with my heart filled with  
HRS PER MONTH). HOUSES IN  NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  9. Just make a U-turn.  songs like Respect. Take a Chance  
NW SB. 2 MILES FROM CAMPUS.  $$$1111 CALL TOM 254-9013  1 FSU STUD FOR SALE  8. Can I cut it?  on Me, and I Will Survive and my  
(812)726-4603 EVENINGS.  CALL X4071  W/ OFFER  I HAVE 1 FLA ST STUD 4 SALE  7. Jus' a little bit!l  mind filled with thoughts of chips,  
Chris 271-7807  6. I'm peeing my pants!  salt an,d vinegar, and Mickey's. To  
- My cousin Frankie is coming out.  5. Whoa! Whoa! We don't want to  my great dismay and much to my  
TRAVEL SALES! Sunchase Ski &  He needs one FSU student ticket.  ForSalellllll  demolish that siding!  flatmates' chagrin, we receive an  
Beach Breaks is accepting applica­ Call Joe Russo at 234·6306.  NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL JIM 4022  1 FSU  4.Vadar-We didn't know you  abrupt reminder of the fact that,  
tions lor Spring Break Campus  1 BC  had it in you.  despite the claim on their take-out  
Reps. Earn top $$$ and FREE  FOR SALE  NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651  Call4-2730  3.Hey Mike, ... the rearview mir­ bags, Mickey's DOES NOT stay  
TRIPS. 1·800-SUNCHASE  2 FSU stud  ror. Aaron's backpack & my  op~;tn until midnight. Awestruck at  
233-9279 Richard  For Sale: 2 FSU stud. tix.  Make  toe..  this realization, we plunge into the  
Green Street Station Is now hiring  Needed: 3 FSU and 1 BC Tix  best offer. Jim x4310  2. Aoaaaaaahll! (sardines)  doldrums of despair--but then it hits  
part-time retail clerks for Christmas.  FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN  Student or GA  1. Clarence Carter ... Oh Shitll ...  us like a double-decker bus coming  
All hours available starting pay  AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN  call Kathleen x4241  WILL PAY $175 A TICKET FOR  Clarence Carter!  down the wrong side of the street-­ 
$5.00. Positions available at UP  ALL CALLS  FLORIDA STATE GA'S 233-9025  Thanks for a great weeki  waiting up for us with Gerry and  
Mall and Scottsdale Mall. Apply in  Luv & Laughs!!  Jane is a loaf of Hovis and mother  
person at UP Mall. Store located  $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA  I NEED FSU Studs  SELLING: FSU GA'S Serious$  Spark Plug & Giggles  tub of margarine.  
outside of Casual Comers.  STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  Kevin x0542  only Brett 273-0986  

Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
Spurrier's criticism;18.rawg1 
tl;',\/ 


reprimand from SEC 

Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE 

Steve Spurrier's complaints about officiating of Florida games has attracted the atten· tion of the Southeastern Con· ference, which sent the coach a letter urging him to stop the criticism. 
The Gainesville Sun reported Tuesday that Spurrier received a written reprimand from SEC commissioner Roy Kramer for comments the coach made after the ninth­ranked Gators' 38-35 loss at 
I 
II II 
I 
Auburn on Oct. 16. 
Kramer said Spurrier went too ·far in publicly criticizing an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty against Florida safety Lawrence Wright that helped set up Auburn'$ game·winnillg field goal. 
At the time, Spurrier was quoted as saying: "Ask your· self if an Alabama defen~lYI:'l back had hit a kid on the side· line like that ...,.. would that call have been made then? I just think there's a perception that it's OK to penalize Florida." 
N.D./ S.M.C. I.D. =F.D. 
(:'lotre Dame or St. Mary's College Identification Equals a Free DeSt'rt with dinner purchase.) OFFEH EXCU 'DES FOOTBALL A."'D PAHE:'ITS WEEKE:'IDS 
what's
in 

The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Bulls, NBA in suit over TV rights 
By STAN MILLER 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
The NBA is entitled to regu­late television broadcasts by its teams, commissioner David Stern testified Tuesday in the Chicago Bulls' federal trial challenging that policy. 
The Bulls and Chicago-based WGN-TV are suing the NBA and trying to void contracts the league signed this year with NBC and Turner Broadcasting, which secured a virtual lock on broadcasting Bulls' games na­tionally beginning next year. 
The Bulls, seeking to increase the number of games televised on WGN, contend they have the right to negotiate directly with the superstation, which broad­casts locally and is carried na­tionally on cable. WGN wants to increase the number of games it is allowed to televise each season from the current 25 to 

41. 

In largely technical testimony, Stern portrayed the league as a joint venture between all 27 teams. While individual teams can market themselves locally, the teams made the league re­sponsible for national market­ing, Stern testified. 
NBA attorney Ronald S. Rauchberg said the testimony 
lion. 

Boone, 24, split the 1993 sea­son between Seattle and its Class AAA team at Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. He hit .251 with 12 home runs, 12 doubles and 38 RBis in 76 games for the Mariners and .332 with eight homers, 18 dou­bles and 56 RBis in 71 games at Calgary. 
"Two of our top priorities for the off-season have been ac­quiring a starting pitcher and a second baseman," Reds general 
conference centered on the Seminoles, who still have to face Maryland Saturday before they begin preparations for the Irish, Holtz did take a brief cou­ple of minutes to applaud Notre Dame and the team's season thus far. 
"Somehow Notre Dame usual­ly rises to the challenge and good things happen," said Holtz. "I knew, to get to this point we'd have to be a good team. We're a good football was designed to show that the league is not a collection of competitors for the same enter­tainment dollar. 
"The plaintiffs in effect are saying the teams are like GM, Ford, Chrysler and Toyota, all competing with one another. We say that's ridiculous," Rauchberg said during a break in testimony before U.S. District Judge Hubert L. Will. 
The NBA contends the NBC and Turner contracts were made with the consent of the league's Board of Governors, which is comprised of team owners. 
manager Jim Bowden said. 
"Erik Hanson is a prqven starter who is capable of pitch­ing 200 innings per season. Bret Boone is a tough, hard­nosed player with the potential to hit 15 to 20 home runs a year and drive in a lot of runs." 
Ayala, a 24-year-old right­hander, was 7-10 with a 5.60 ERA and three saves in 43 games with the Reds this year, including nine starts. He was 5­4 as a reliever and 2-6 as a starter. 
team, but not a great football team. We're capable of beating anyone. Florida State, though, is capable of embarassing everyone in the country." 
Despite the week off, Holtz insisted that the Irish would remain focused and not allow the game hype to deter them from their preparation. He also was not hoping for rain or snow, and did not think the weather would be a factor in next week's game. 
... 


Dial it instead of "0" and save up to 44%. 
For long dlst&noe collect C&lis. Vs. ATo!t!' operator dla.led 3 mln. lnt8!'8t&t<! ca.ll. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
Tough times not over for PSU 
By KELLY P. KISSEL 
Associatod Pross 
STATE COLLEGE 
The tough times are over for Penn State now that it's past Michigan and Ohio State, right? 
Wrong. The Indiana team that visits Beaver Stadium on Sat­urday leads the Big Ten in total defense and scoring defense, and that's bad news for a Nit­tany Lion team that's scored only 19 points in its last two games. 
"I think they're quicker on defense than Ohio State," Pa­terno said Tuesday. "I just like their whole defense. They have two shutouts back-to-hack. They're a big league defensive football team." 
The Hoosiers are 7-1 ( 4-1 in the league) and ranked 17th af­ter beating Northwestern 24-0 and Michigan State 10-0. Penn State is 5-2 (2-2) and ranked 19th. 
Indiana is giving up 267 yards per game -114 on the ground and 153 passing. The Hoosier 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
SportsTalk welcomes 
Linebacker Pete Bereich tonight at 8 p.m. on WVFI 640 AM. Call in at 631-6400. 
Irish Ice Club Hockey wiU be held on Thursday Nov, 4 at 10:45 p.m., Sunday Nov. 7 at 11:30-12:30 p.m., Thursday Nov. 11 at 10:45­
11:45 p.m.• Sunday Nov. 14 at 9-10:00 p.m. Please bring $5 to first scrimmage. New members weJcome. Call Rob at x1950 or Pete at 273-5059 for more details. 
defense is giving up just 9.3 points per game -the third­lowest average in the country. 
Penn State's Ki-Jana Carter is second in the league in rushing, averaging 122.7 yards per game. 
But if the Lion passing game isn't straightened out. allowing Indiana to concentrate on the run, there will be an unhappy Happy Valley come Saturday night. 
The Lions' passing game is quite possibly the league's worst. Junior Kerry Collins is 11th in passing efficiency in the league. He was 13-of-39 with four interceptions against Ohio State. 
"It's disappointing and frus­trating when you know the run­ning game is going so well and you're not doing the things you really have in mind," wide receiver Bobby Engram said Tuesday. 
"It's not really Kerry. You can't look at one aspect of the game. You have to look at the whole concept," Engram said. 
"It's been receivers dropping some balls as well as Kerry do­ing some things he could do better." 
Only Indiana is passing for fewer yards per game than Penn State. 
The Lions average of 30 points per game is third in the league, but the numbers are inflated by a 70-point performance against Maryland. The Lions lost 21-13 to Michigan and 24-6 to Ohio State. 
Penn State hasn't scored a touchdown in six quarters. 
Since John Sacca left after the Maryland game, Collins has played every snap. Paterno says he would like to keep Wally Richardson on the sidelines and redshirt him at the end of the year if at all possible. 
Burning a redshirt year to help Richardson, a sophomore, prepare for 1994 isn't in the works. 
"We're in the middle of a good season. I'm not going to start playing for next year," he said. 

Retired Jordan continues to be in media spotlight 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
For someone who is supposed to be running from the spot­light, Michael Jordan still casts a very long shadow. 
On Tuesday, the recently retired superstar turned up at his restaurant for a news con­ference promoting publication of the book, "Rare Air: Michael on Michael." 
It marked Jordan's fourth public appearance in the month since he stunned the sporting world by walking away from pro basketball. And he said nothing had happened in the interim that made him regret leaving the game. 
"When I walk to the bath­room in the morning, I have no aches and pains," said Jordan, who turned 30 in February. "That's nice. It feels like a big weight is off my mind." 
Jordan also said that he has found support for his decision from fans who approach him on the street, even though he still comes in for criticism in some letters to the editors in newspapers. 
"There will always be a pro and con side. But as long as I know deep down inside that made the right choice, I'm comfortable with it." 
Jordan said his recent appearances on "Oprah," "Larry King Live" and the "Today Show" to promote the book had been arranged prior to his retirement. lie said he decided to honor those com­mitments, but still intended to shield his private life as much as possible. 
Jordan, however, admitted to showing up at a Chicago Bulls practice session a day earlier and scrimmaging with the team after former teammate 
B.J. Armstrong made the sug­gestion while the two were having breakfast together. 


.. 
-
NDE 
4th Day Community 
Presents 
Fr. Bill Miscamble 
on "The Catholic Character of the University" Wednesday at 7:30p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 


-------~ 

CHILDREN•s BOOK MONTH CELEBRATION! Clifford The Big Red Dog Will Be Visiting The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore To Celebrate Children's Book Monthf Wednesday, November 3rdmifford THJI BIG MD DOfi® From 3 p.m. To S p.m.••• Storytime 4 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.• 25% Off All Children•s Books For The Month Of No.,ember!  
The Hamme~ NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campul'' Ph. 631-6316 Book Dept. 631-S324 Located in the heart of the beautiful Notre Dame Campu1  
CLASSES For more information call 1-800-KAP-TEST  


Irish 
continued from page 16 
form an impenetrable wall at the net. Two blocks and a net violation by Loyola pushed the score to 12-3 Notre Dame, and a Loyola time-out only pro­longed the inevitable. 
Molly Stark hit a quickset from Karlan for a 13-3 advan­tage, followed by two kills from 
Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
Karlan that led to match point. Loyola ended the affair with a net violation, as the Irish improved to 3-0 in the confer­ence, owning victories over their two biggest opponents. 
"I'm somewhat confident as to where we stand in the con­ference, although we definitely can't look past Xavier this Friday," commented Brown. "However, if we beat them we should secure the number one seed for the tournament." 

Second-seeded Courier drops out of Paris Open 
By SALVATORE ZANCA Associated Press 
PARIS 
Second seed Jim Courier bowed out of the Paris Open tennis tournament Tuesday when Magnus Gustafsson of Sweden beat him 6-4, 6-3 in a second-round match. 
For Courier, who had a bye in the first round, it was only the third time in 22 tournaments that he lost in his opening match. 
"The first matches are always the most dangerous. You are still getting used to the new balls, new courts and new at­mosphere," Courier said. 
Courier is ranked second in the world behind Pete Sam­pras, who begins play Wednes­day. Courier will drop further 
--behind Sampras no matter what Sampras does because Sampras lost in the first round of the tournament last year. 
Courier failed to serve well, facing seven break points, the first of which he faced in the first game of the match. He held off that one, but dropped his serve in the third game be­fore breaking back to make it 2-2. 
Gustafsson made the decisive break in the seventh game of each set. The Swede, ranked No. 20 in the world, was helped by Courier's double fault at break point, giving the Swede a 4-3 lead in the second set. He also won the next to games to win in 81 minutes. 
Three-time champion Boris Becker survived a third-set tiebreaker to beat Andrei Ol­hovskiy of Russia 6-7 (6-8), 6-2, 7-6 (7-5) in the second round. 
Sixth-seeded Stefan Edberg, the 1990 champion here, beat Frenchman Olivier Delaitre 6-2, 6-3 and No. 8 seed Andrei Medvedev of Ukraine oudasted Amos Mansdorf of Israel, the 1988 winner, 6-7. (2-7), 6-3, 7­6 (7 -4). 
Henri Leconte continued a comeback as he upset the top French player, lOth-seeded Cedric Pioline, 2-6, 6-4, 6-3. Pioline made the finals of his last three tournaments and lost to Sampras in the final of the 
U.S. Open. 
Also, Marc Rosset of S·witzer­land defeated No. 15 Alexander Volkov of Russia 6-7 (6-8), 6-3, 6-4. and No. 14 Petr Korda of the Czech Republic edged An­drei Chesnokov of Russia 6-3, 6-7 (3-7), 7-6 (7-2). 
Sampras, the No. 1 seed here, begins play Wednesday against David Wheaton, who beat Ivan Lendl in the first round . 
In other first-round matches, Arnaud Boetsch of France elim­inated Javier Sanchez of Spain 6-4, 6-0; Mark Woodforde of Australia ousted Byron Black of Zimbabwe 7-6 (7-2), 6-2; Guil­laume Raoux beat fellow Frenchman Lionel Roux 6-2, 6­0 and Jar~d Palmer of the United States topped Jason Stoltenberg of Australia 6-3, 6­2. 
Becker, third seeded this year, outdueled Olhovskiy in a battle of big services in a 2-hour, 21­minute match. Becker fired 10 aces in the last set, including three each in his final two ser­vice games. 

URBRN PLUNGE? 
INFORMATION MEETING: 
4:30 PM NOVEMBER 3rd (Wed.) 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS Or stop in the CSC for info 

-
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
Finally--Holtz acknowledges FSU 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz finally began fielding questions about the long-awaited matchup with No. 1 Florida State yesterday at his weekly press conference held on the set ofWNDU. 
On Tuesday's injury list were Jim Flanigan, Lee Becton, Derrick Mayes, Bobby Taylor, Kinnon Tatum, Jeremy Akers, Ryan Leahy, M.ike Miller, Shawn Wooden, and Huntley Bakich, who all missed yester­day's practice. Out for the season are Jeff Kilburg, Anthony Peterson. Ron Powlus, Leon Wallace, and Darnell Smith. 
Though many of the reporters' questions were cen­tered on how the Irish defense would be able to stop quarter­back Charlie Ward and the explosive Seminole offense, Holtz seemed more concerned with how his team would gain yards against Florida State's defense. which was once con­sidered to be their weak spot early in the season. 
"The biggest shock I had is that they're one of the best defensive teams I've seen," Holtz said yesterday. "I've never seen a defense dominate another team's offense like 
CLUB SCENE 
BOXING 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club will give its first-year boxers a taste of live action this week. On Thursday in an auxiliary gym in the JACC. about 40 rrrst-time fighters will compete in a novice tournament. 
The novice boxers have been training five days a week for the last five weeks learning basic punches and defenses as well as ring strategy and rules. 
The purpose of the event is to give the new boxers the experience of being in the ring and about half of the partici· pants usually return to com­pete in Bengal Bouts in the spring, according to club presi­dent Jeff Gerber. 
WATER POLO 

.... 
The Notre Dame Water Polo their defense has done." 
Holtz mentioned the names of linebacker Derrick Brooks and cornerback Corey Sawyer as players to watch. but his praise rested mostly on their defensive line, anchored by defensive end Derrick Alexander, who is second on the team in tackles. 
"I have confidence in my football team offensively," con­tinued Holtz. "But I did not expect Florida State to be as overwhelming as they are defensively. If we have a chance to win, it will not be a high scoring game." 
Holtz did discuss Charlie Ward, but not just his ability to fire strikes to his talented receivers, Tamarick Vanover and Kez McCorvey. He seemed to worry more about Ward getting out of the pocket. which adds another dimension to their big play capabilities. 
"The thing that worries me the most is their ability to run the football, especially Charlie Ward's scrambling ability," said Holtz. 
The coach expressed con­cern about the Irish kicking game. Senior Adrian Jarrell is presently penciled in to handle the punting duties, but Holtz remarked that freshman Brian 
see HOLTZ I page II 
Club will be back at full strength for a tournament this weekend at Eastern Michigan. 
The team, which was miss~ ing several key players in its last competition, will be led by goalkeeper Brian Coughlin, Walter Morrissey, Eric Shultz, 
J.B. Boyd and Donald Balhoff as it looks to show the Big 10 teams that it can compete with them. 
At the meet, the Irish will face Eastern Michigan, Ohio State, Michigan State and a team from Windsor. Canada. 
Notre Dame has defeated Eastern Michigan every time they have faced them this year while Ohio State· bested the Irish at a tournament a few weeks ago. 

ncounter 
A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An oppor1untty, In dlak);ue wllh othe,.., to deepen 
your understanding of youralf, your velvee, your 
... lallonehlp with Chrtel, your ••~r1ence of Chrtatlan community and aertlce. 

RETREAT 
DECEMBER 3-5, 1993
DATES: 
FORMS 
November 3-9 
AVAILABLE: 
at4:00 p.m . 

... 
SIGN UP 
November 9 -4:00 p.m. 
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 1 03 Hesburgh Library 631-7600 

COST: $25.00 


Irish swimmers begin season 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
Sports Writer 
While most of us were enjoy­ing the last day of our fall break, the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams both enjoyed victories in their meets on Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Irish women conquered two opponents in their double dual meet, by decisively beating Western Illinois and Northern Michigan. Inspired by their win in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Relays on Friday night, the women placed first in nearly every event. and often captured several top spots. 
Because of the structure of the double dual meet, each team can only race two or three swimmers in each event. 
"In normal meets we can rely on our depth to score points, but it was really important that we place high," noted captain Kristin Heath. 
Sophomore Jesslyn Peterson won both the Individual Medley and the Medley Relay. Her time in the 400-yard IM was 4:28.09, fifteen seconds ahead of the rest of the field. Notre Dame dominated the Medley Relay, placing first and second with its "A" and "B" teams. respectively. 
In the meet's longest event, the 1000-yard Freestyle, Jenni Dahl won with a time of 10:37.34, and teammate Joy Michnowicz followed in second with a 10:39.98 clocking. 

The freshman showed early signs of speed and success in their first dual meet. In the 200-Freestyle, freshmen Amy Bostick and Alyssa Peterson captured the top two positions with impressive times. Freshman Erin Brooks also swam well, winning the 200­yard Backstroke with a time of 2:06.15. 
"The MCC relays gave us the first chance to see the whole team in racing form," com­mented Irish coach Tim Welsh. "It was a good gauge of our strength as a team, and the girls showed just what they are capable of achieving." 
After losing to Western Illinois 226-176 in the MCC Relays on Friday night, the Notre Dame men's swim team rebounded to defeat the team in the dual meet held the next morning. 
Contributing to the 139-102 victory, sophomore Ryan Beville scored 18 points by placing first in both the 200­yard Freestyle and the 200­yard Butterfly. Senior captain David Nathe also won two events, the 50-yard and 100­yard Freestyle. Then the two combined with junior Andy Kiley and sophomore David Doherty to claim the Freestyle Relay. The "B" squad placed second in that event, which helped the team. 
In the 500-yard Freestyle, freshman Rich Murphy partici­pated in his first real race, and won the event with a time of 
work specifically on improving it. ..
Belles 

continued from page I6 To be successful. Martino 
believes that the Belles will there the past two years." she need to remain focused through said. "This year we needed to this week as they conclude 4:44.98. 
Senior diver Sean Hyer domi­nated both the one and three meter diving events, handily winning both boards. Hyer has achieved the farthest diving sequence of any other Notre Dame diver. 
The key to the Irish victory was their domination of the top, point-earning positions in each event. They placed first, sec­ond, and third in the 200-yard freestyle, and captured the first four spots in the 200-yard Butterfly. 
"It was a great meet," stated captain Nathe. "For our first challenging home dual meet, we really pulled together to beat some of their top men. 
"We beat them as a team, not as individuals, and I think this will set the momentum for the rest of the season," added Nathe. 
Welsh was pleased with the both teams' performances over the weekend, particularly with the races on Saturday morning. 
He was extremely proud of the men for coming back and beating Western Illinois after their defeat Friday night. "To come back and win like that is a real mark of this team's disci­pline, strength. and competi­tiveness," said Welsh. 
Welsh described the season outlook for both team's as "extremely bright." After their efforts this past weekend, little doubt remains that an exciting swim season lies ahead. 
their season play on the road. 
"It would be nice to end my last season at Saint Mary's with two more wins," she said. "That would make the season complete." 

The Controversy Continues ... November 9 7:30pm Stepan 
Phyllis Schlafly 
Reagan Advisor 

of Roe v. Wade 
"Changing Roles of Men and Women in the 1990s: A Debate" 

Wednesday, November 3, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 



FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
OF INTEREST 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Watercraft 48 Pigment­28-Barrani, deficient animal 

1 Opening on W.W.II Egyptian 51 Civil wrong Broadway battleground 52 NBC's progenitor 5 Recovery 
29 Mis followers 55 Chicken feed? 

period, briefly 10 Walk in the 32 Two-way lady? 57 Dec. holiday sa Threshold
woods 3301dGreek 
59 Patriot-diplomat

14 Last of the medicine man 
of the 1770's 

Gospels 34 An imperfect ten? 
&Oimmense

15 Antarctic cape 35 Talk turkey? 
61 Just

16 Pindarics 39 Mus followers 
62 Orange-red

17 Berserk 40 Prenatal 
stones

18 How Utrecht membranes 
631nvolved with 

canaries date? 
41 Hoosegow20 Kind of shackle? 

42 Holiday for Ho 21 Facial spasms 

DOWN
43 You can't hear 

22 Carl Ripken Jr. is one its bark 1 Open a crack 44 Mennonite 2 Cook book 
23 Prevailing campus in Ind. 
atmospheres 3 Birdhouse 
25Leonard­46 Unlocked? cartoonist? a k a Roy 47 "Sugar is sweet, 4 Contents of Rogers and-you!" some wells 
5 Choice for a tire buyer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Bring out 7 -off(gesture of praise) 8 Clara Barton's 

26 Boast 38 C.I.S., once 49 Tender ender 
org. 
27 Follow 44Steve so Bear's opposite 
90bligated 
28 Room for Henri Lawrence's 51 Peter the Great, 
10 Mirthful Mandel 
in-laws e.g.
29 Birdbrained

11 Logical DINING HALL
forecaster? 45 Tidbit for 53 Playbill listing 
beginning? 
Trigger
12 Hull structure 30 Rolling Stones 54 Concerning 
46 Showman Rose 47 Logically valid 
hit: 1973 56"-, verily" 
31 Grim in aspect 57 Cato's sweet 


~­
48Lhasa-age?
33 Gave a good pasting? 36 Navigator's 
Get answers to any three clues 
instrument 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 
37 Power-hungry 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Across military leaders 

Zero =Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're 
BEFORE YOU HOST YOUR 

under 21, driving, chemically dependent, 
NEXT PARTY REMEMBER TO: 

on certain medications, or pregnant.
ZER®
• Offer a choice of non-alcoholic 

beverages. One = One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
• Serve food. Food helps you 

.,
enjoy what you drink without letting 
e)N8
what you drink get the better of you. 

Three = No more than three drinks per day, 
• Encourage your guests to follow and never daily.
the Zero-One-Three rule for alcohol consumption. 

THR:lf. AND 
For more information on party planning and non-alcoholic recipes, call the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 

• SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, November 3, 1 993 
Williams gains supporting cast, confidence 
By JASON KELLY Jon and Joe Ross and junior Kurowski and potential big could change and probably will Matt Gotsch also on the bench, Associate Sports Editor Jason Williams. scorer Billy Taylor ready to as we go along," MacLeod said. Notre Dame has significant But that appears to be a flexi­come ofT the bench. With seniors Brooks Boyer depth at almost every position. 
Monty Williams gained ten ble starting lineup, with shoot­"It's only the third day (of and Carl Cozen and freshmen ''I'd like to see us get to a pounds over the summer, but ers Ryan Hoover and Keith practice). so the starting lineup centers Marcus Hughes and point where we get 10 people he looked like a big weight had involved every night," MacLeod been lifted ofT his shoulders. said. "There's room for every­
"Just about every game last one." season, I felt like I had to carry That depth has created an the team." Williams said intense practice environment Tuesday at the Notre Dame with everyone battling for play­men's basketball media day. ing time. 
"This year, I just want to do anything to help the team win, "In practice you're going whether it's taking a charge or against people who can take passing up a shot so (sopho­your spot and that will only more guard Hyan Hoover) can make us better," Jason hit a three." Williams said. ''I'm a starter 
Williams will still carry much right now, but that could of the burden for the Irish, but change at any time because of his supporting cast appears to the depth we have. That depth be improving. is important for us because in 
our up-tempo style of play we 

Freshman point guard have to do a lot of subbing. Admore White has made the Everyone will have an impor­biggest impression, earning the tant role on this team." starling job after just five prac­MacLeod will need to use tice sessions. everyone to endure a schedule 
"lie has bullet-like quick­that includes North Carolina, ness," Irish coach John Kentucky, Louisville, Duke, MacLeod said. Indiana and UClA. 
"There will be times when he But MacLeod expects his plays outstanding basketball players to do more than and there will be times when he endure. lie expects them to plays like a freshman, but he is succeed. an intense young man who is constantly pushing the ball and "Our target is the NCAA tour­attacking the defense." nament. that's the goal we've 
set," MacLeod said. " It may be 

Turnovers plagued the Irish a a stretch, but we won't get year ago and White will have to there if we don't start thinking prove to be as protective of the about it now." ball as he is generous with his The Irish begin their quest for passes. the tournament with exhibition 
"I like to make the great pass­games against the Hussian es more than I like to score," Federation on November 18 White said. "But it's all about and Athletes in Action on fundamentals and protecting November 23. The regular sea­the ball." son begins November 28 at the 
Joining White and Williams in Joyce Center against
Monty Williams and the Irish look to receive an NCAA tournament bid. 
the starting lineup are seniors 
Belles push win streak to six in home finale 
By TARA KRULL that the team played good Sports Writer defense in the match-up against Goshen. 
In their home season finale, the Saint Mary's volleyball "As a team, everyone played team extended their winning good. defense," she said. streak to six as they defeated "Both Sara Stronczek and Kim Goshen College in five games, Branstetter displayed excel­15-1,7-15, 15-0,9-15,15-11. lent defensive playing tonight. The Belles also honored their Ann Lawrence came through senior teammates during the for us with her offensive 
attacks as well." 
The win over Goshen College last night marked the Belles' twentieth win this season bringing their overall record to 20-9. They have two more matches this season against Manchester College this Thursday and Chicago State on Saturday. 
According to Julie Schroeder-Biek, the Belles will work to improve their offen­sive play during their final practices. This will be essen­tial for the final two matches. 
"Our offense has just been 
see BELLES I page 14 


Swimming The Irish men's and women's swim teams open their home seasons over fall break. 
see page 14 Valparaiso. 

Irish volleyball bombs Loyola 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR in the first game, as Sartorelli's Ervin continued her strong Assistant Sports Editor attacks from the right side dis­play in leading the Irish in rupted the Irish offense. game two, serving three aces 
Once again, coach Debbie However, after a Sartorelli kill as Notre Dame jumped out to a Brown worked her magic, and tied the game at 14, the Irish 9-3 lead it never relinquished. once again, the Notre Dame turned to their biggest weapon, Peters ended the game for the volleyball team continued its Christy Peters, to salvage the Irish with a kill followed by an dominance of MCC opponents game, and as usual, she deliv­ace. as Brown upped her career ered. The third game started in conference record to 20-0 With Loyola serving to take similar fashion, as Notre Dame when the Irish easily dismissed the lead, Peters notched deci­built a 6-2 lead behind two kills Loyola, 16-14, 15-5, 15-4. sive kills three different times by Birkner, one coming from 
After almost letting a 13-8 to gain possession for the Irish. the back row. However, the lead slip away in game one, as Notre Dame was able to end next point turned out to be the the Ramblers were able to suc­the game on a kill from fresh­most critical of the match, as cessfully hit off of the Notre man outside hitter Kristina the ball crossed the net no less Dame block, the Irish utilized Ervin and a block by seniors than ten times before Ervin Brown's strategic adjustments Janelle Karlan and Molly Stark. finally ended the rally with a to perfection to close out the The Irish used a new formula strong cross-court kill, remov­match in games two and three. in the first game, as three ing all hope of a comeback for 
"They were having success freshmen were on the floor for the Ramblers. against our block, especially Notre Dame in the crucial "I was a little surprised at all number 1 £Missy Sartorelli} hit­stages. Ervin, who made her the chances I had, but I was ting down the line," explained first start for the Irish and glad to get them," stated Ervin. Brown, who watched her 17th played well throughout the "Loyola is usually a pretty ranked Irish improve to 20-5. match, was joined by regular emotional team, so I was sur­"We were able to change our starter Jenny Birkner and Jen prised how flat they were block against their outside hit­Briggs, all of whom were solid tonight," added Brown. "Either ters." down the stretch. we took it out of them, or they 
The change made an immedi­"All year, our freshmen have lost it." ate difference, as the Irish fun­shown incredible composure, Following Ervin's kill, the neled all attacks into the mid­which is really rare," praised Notre Dame block took control, dle of the court and were able Brown. "I think it shows that as seniors Molly Stark and to pass much more effectively. the future of our program is Julie Harris joined Peters to 
This passing was not evident strong." 
Inside SPORTS 
Club Scene 


A preview of upcoming boxing and water polo club events. 
see page 14 
see IRISH I page 13 
Holtz Press Conference Holtz admits he has thought about the upcoming lrish/Seminoles match-up. 
see page 14 







