The Observer 
VOL. XXV NO. 120 FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
BOG revises smoking policy 
By GWEN DUFFIELD News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Board of Governance (BOG) will vote next Monday to approve a revised smoking policy that restricts smoking in public areas. 
The proposed policy, which would take effect next year, was prompted by a survey con­ducted on March 25, in which 
73.8 percent of Saint Mary's students voted to prohibit smoking. If BOG votes to ap­prove the policy, the proposal will be submitted to the Senior Officers for approval. 
"There was a lot of concern voiced by students and the Board of Regents about the ef­fects of smoking, so we con­ducted a residence hall survey that would accommodate those students who didn't smoke," said Karen Fordham, Resident Hall Association (RHA) presi­dent. 
According to the new policy, smoking will be permitted in student rooms as agreed upon by roommates and in the vend­ing areas of each residence hall. There will be no smoking allowed in all other public areas in the residence halls, including, but not limited to, laundry rooms, bathrooms, 
see POLICY I page 4 The Observer/Brian McDonough Freshman Alejandro Montoya uses the automatic door opener to leave the Hesburgh Library. Montoya and other handicapped students expressed concern over the lack of facilities provided for them on other areas of campus. 


Handicapped students push administration for campus access 
By NICK RIOS News Writer 
Monday, 7:58 a.m. A student hops down the stairs of her dorm, races across the quad, sprints up a flight of stairs and slides into her seat in a classroom on the second floor of O'Shaughnessy just as eight chimes ring out from the bells in Sacred Heart. A typical way many students start a Monday-that is unless you are a physically handicapped student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Handicapped students are finding some areas and buildings on campus difficult to access, according to freshman Alejandro Montoya. 
"I would say that overall, the faculty as well as the general population of this University make it a very happy and lovable environment to live in, but as far as their efforts for making the University fully accessible to disabled students, they have not yet reached their full potential," said Montoya, who is physically disabled. 
While many of the newer buildings on campus can easily accompany handicapped stu­dents, many places need to undergo some sort of remodeling to make them accessible for all students, Montoya said. He cited LaFortune Student Center and the Administration Building as two examples of buildings at both extremes of accessibility for handicapped persons. 
"Metal door knobs, special bathrooms and fountains, and elevators make LaFortune fully accessible," he said. "But the Administration Building is a constant reminder that we can not move around the building without the help of 
see ACCESS I page 4 

New literature course to address gay, lesbian issues 
By JASON WILLIAMS conclusions they wish, the bet­Assistant News Editor ter for all concerned." 
Dian Murray, associate dean 
A literature course offered by of the College of Arts and Let­the department of romance ters, had no comment on the languages and literatures could relation between the courses be an important step to gener­content and Notre Dame's ating a forum for discussing Catholic character, but she did homosexuality on campus, ac­say the course outline had been cording to assistant professor accepted and approved by the Carlos Jerez-Farran. registrar and administration. 
Despite consistent University denial of recognizing an official "This is a university of aca­organization for gays and les­demic freedom, and that's what bians on campus, "Outspoken part of intellectual growth Readings in Literature," a 400-among the students is all level elective course, is being about," she said. offered for the Fall 1993 Harold Attridge, dean of the semester. College of Arts and Letters, and 
Louis MacKenzie, dean of the 
"I'm going to approach teach­department of romance lan­ing the course from sort of an guages and literatures were academic and humane posi­unavailable for comment. tion," Jerez-Farran said. "I also Sharon Miller, spokesperson 
plan to show what homosexual for the unrecognized organiza­experience has in common with tion Gays and Lesbians of Notre human experience in general." Dame/Saint Mary's, said she 
Jerez-Farran said the course was initially "flabbergasted" by is aimed at students who have the University's contradictory interests in exploring the role of stance. homosexuality in literature. He "I was frankly amazed, but I also said the class will stress guess I'm not surprised any­the importance of recognizing more by what Notre Dame sexuality as an important comes up with," she said. "They aspect of human nature. have their own logic, they have 
their own thinking." 
"I hope the straight commu­nity shows as much interest as The course itself will examine the gay and lesbian community works by Plato, Walt Whitman, because we are dealing with is­Virginia Woolf, William Shake­sues that really transcend sex­speare and other classical and uality," he said. "Homosexuality 20th century writers. Jerez­
is a human reality that has Farran said he will pay particu­been and will be with us as long lar attention to the homosexual as humanity exists, and the elements of their writings and sooner people are given the their universal and personal facts to help them reach the see CLASS I page 4 
Conference examines sanctions 
By EMILY HAGE at the Sigur Center of The Ge­Arms Control, which provides Assistant News Editor orge Washington University research and public education School of International Affairs, to limit the spread of nuclear 
Scholars and experts from will address the issue of eco­weapons, will be giving the around the world will gather nomic sanctions to prevent keynote address on Saturday. this weekend to debate and dis­cuss the political, economic, 
The conference will be di­and moral ramifications of in­
vided to explore different ternational economic sanctions. 
aspects of economic sanctions. 

Freedom Forum 
Friday will focus on economic and International Relations," 
Entitled, "Economic Sanctions 

Events Schedule 
effectiveness issues, while Sat­the conference will feature 
urday will include speakers on keynote speaker James Ngobi, 
political effectiveness and

Friday 
moral and political issues, andSecretary of the United Nations 

2:30 p.m. Economic Effec­
sanctions in South Africa, Haiti, Sanction Committees. Ngobi 

tiveness Issues. Panel discus­
and Iraq. Sunday will examinewill speak Friday evening on 

sion. 
sanctions in former Yugoslavia. 

sanctions in the former 
7 p.m. Keynote Address: 
The conference is sponsoredYugoslavia, Iraq, and Somalia. 

James Ngobi, UN Sanctions 
by the Fourth Freedom Forum

Committees 
Inc. and the University of Notre the use of sanctions as a means 
"The conference will examine Dame's Joan B. Kroc Institute
Saturday 
for International Peace Studies. 

of enforcing international law 
10:30 p.m. Moral and Political
without military violence," ac­
Issues Related to the Use of 
This weekend marks the firstcording to a press release from 

Sanctions. Panel Discussion. 
time the two have co-sponsored the Forum. The program will 

12:30 p.m. Keynote Address: 
a conference, though they plan 

also include discussion con­
Wisconsin Project on Nuclear 
on further cooperation in thecerning sanctions in former 

Arms Control. 
future, according to Glick.

Yugoslavia, Iraq, Haiti, and 
2 p.m. The Experience of 
The Kroc Institute was

South Africa. 
Sanctions in South Africa and 
founded in 1986 for research"We want to explore the polit­

Haiti. Panel Discussion. 
and teaching concerning the

ical and moral implications of 
3:45 p.m. The Experience of 
issues of peace and violence. Itsanctions, as well as the eco­

Sanctions in Iraq. Panel Dis­
offers undergraduate and

nomic implications," said Jen­
cussion. 
graduate degrees in Peace mation Services at the Forum. 
nifer Glick, Director of Infor­Studies, and peace research in
Sunday 
Ph.d. programs in different"One of the problems of 

8:45 p.m. The Experience of 
departments.

sanctions is that they punish 
Sanctions in fanner
people who shouldn't be pun­
Yugoslavia; Panel Discussion. 
Created in 1982, the Fourth

ished. With sanctions, you 
10:30 a.m. The Future of 
Freedom Forum, located in

want to punish the government, 
Economic Sanctions. 
Goshen, In., calls itself a "not­for-profit, non-partisan, non­Many leading scholars will be 
not the people," she added. 

sectarian, private operating featured in the conference, in­
foundation" designed "to cluding Robert Manning, State North Korea's development of achieve freedom of fear Department expert, former ad­nuclear weapons on Friday through the large scale reduc­visor to the Bush administra­afternoon. tion of armaments and the 
tion on Asian-U.S. policy, and Gary Mihollin, Director of establishment of enforceable presently a research associate Wisconsin Project on Nuclear international law." 

i 
l t t 
l 
~ 
I 
t 
t 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Your unfriendly barbs don't hurt; I love Indiana 
I'm a Hoosier, and I'm damn proud of it. 
In my nearly three years on this campus, I've heard more crap about my state 
Shayne
than I could possibly recount. Generally it's in Bushfield good fun, but most of you Viewpoint Copy interlopers have an Editor arrogant attitude that this -------­state just doesn't quite measure up-isn't quite as cool-as your state. Well, I'm here to inform you right now that there is no state more excellent than Indiana. 

Allow me for a moment to examine some o your home states; you who have yet to waste an opportunity to obscene the state I hold so dear to my heart. Firstly, let's look at Minnesota. Sure, everybody likes lakes, and Minnesota accents are fun to listen to, but the weather makes even South Bend feel like a tropical resort. 
How about Florida? Okay fine, nice weather, beaches, sun, pleasure, The Magic Kingdom. But one drawback ruins it all: too many old people. The poor quality of health care in Indiana make the average life expectancy something like 50 (unofficial figure), so old folks are not a problem here. 
My most vocal anti-Indiana critic hails from New Jersey. I find it ironic that I sometimes defend my state to someone from New Jersey. 
Most complaints that we Hoosiers hear about Indiana are really complaints about South Bend, and usually I can see where they're coming from. I come from a small town a little south-east of Indianapolis, where the literacy rate is almost 50% and the people are still debating whether they should join the war (The Civil War; for the South). In fact, a tiny little town near mine seceded and never officially re­entered. My Indiana is much different than the Indiana found at Notre Dame. 
Where I live, life is much simpler. Give a real Hoosier a stick, a whittling knife, corn on the cob, and some teeth, and he'll be happy. Oh, and a TV. 
Back home, everybody watches Hoosier Lottery, that is unless an IU game is on. Where I'm from, people are such big IU fans they even bleed red. I need not mention how important basketball is to a Hoosier's livelihood. God has a name-Bob Knight. No argument will be accepted. 
Some Indiana critics have only been exposed to Michiana, and perhaps, on a drive to Chicago, the pleasant experience that is Gary. While these places have much to offer (your guess is as good as mine). the true Hoosier Heartland is downstate. 
Many people complain about the terrain here, but southern Indiana actually has hills, and pretty nice ones at that. Plus, they aren't littered with trash and nuclear waste and hypodermic needles. Hoosiers have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of, geographically. I'd rather lie in the grass beside a tall cornfield than be stuck in traffic in a Cement Hell any day. 
So, for all of you arrogant jerks who find it necessary to complain about Indiana, think again. You may think this state is boring, but that is probably because you are boring. To me, Indiana is the essence of greatness. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff Sports 
Jenny MartenNews John Lucas VIewpoint
Katie Murphy 
Alison Ebel Production 
BusinessSusan Marx John Connorton Kristin Ruethling 
Gerrie Hamilton Susan MarxAccent Matt Carbone Lab TechBevin Kovalik John BinghamDon Modica 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, April 2, 1993
The Observer 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 2. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L a &SJ [DJ 0 IZ3 81l 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Aasocfatsd Presa 
FORECAST Cloudy and cold today with a chance of snow. Highs in the middle 30s. Partly cloudy and not as cold tonight with highs in the 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  42  32  
Atlanta  66  51  
Bogota  68  48  
Cairo  68  50  
Chicago  31  27  
Cleveland  53  38  
Dallas  60  48  
Datrolt  35  32  
Indianapolis  50  36  
Jerusalem  66  46  
London  52  48  
Los Angeles  67  56  
Madrid  66  41  
Minneapolis  36  23  
Moscow  39  36  
Nashville  51  46  
NewYor1<  48  41  
Paris  52  48  
Philadelphia  54  47  
Rome  57  32  
Seattle  61  45  
South Bend  33  30  
Tokyo 68 52 Washington. D.C. 69 49






TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL President Clinton crjtjcjzes Perot 
• ANNAPOLIS, Md. -President Clinton rebuked former presidential rival Ross Perot on Thursday for criticizing his chief of staff, declining to endorse his economic plan and perpetuating stories of anti-military bias in the White House. "You know, Mr. Perot came to Washington the other day 

and attacked my chief of staff as not being a real business person," Clinton said during a question-and­answer session with members of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. "And he had to call him on the phone and personally apologize the next day. I mean, people can say anything from the podium." Clinton also wondered aloud why Perot, who ran for president last year largely on a platform of reducing the federal budget deficit, had not endorsed Clinton's economic plan, which includes a five-year, $496 billion deficit-cutting measure. ''I'd be more interested in why my economic program, which is 85 percent what Ross Perot recommended in the campaign -except we raise taxes less on the middle 
OF INTEREST 
• 
SERV (Students Encouraging Religious Vocations) will meet at the grotto at 2:45 p.m. to make their monthly way of the cross for vocations along the shore of St. Joseph's Lake, rain, shine or snow. Please join us to walk along and pray for vocations. 

• 
The India Association of Notre Dame will present an open forum on secularism in India at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library faculty lounge. 

• 
The Hispanic Law Student Association of the ND Law School proudly sponsors the first annual Run for Education on Saturday. The SK race/walk will begin at 


10:30 a.m. in front of the law school. Registration will be before the race. There is a $12 fee, and the first 125 participants will receive a t-shirt. Proceeds will fund the Hispanic Education fund. 
• Seniors, want to teach next year? American Samoa representative, Ann Cusick will be at the Center for Social Concerns Friday and Saturday to interview those who have applied, or are interested in applying to teach 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAv·s TRADING April 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 288,009,900 -.68 to 248.7 4 S&P COMPOSITE -1.37 to 450.30 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +4.53 to 3.439.44

UNCHANGED 606 

GOLD +$0.20 to $328.80 oz 
SILVER -$.016 to $3.692 oz 

class, more on the wealthy, and don't have unspecified health care savings -hasn't been endorsed since it's almost identical to the one he ran on," Clinton said. 
Wild tigers face extinction 
• WASHINGTON-Wild tigers face extinction in less than 10 years if effective measures aren't taken to stop increasing poaching for Oriental medicines, the World Wildlife Fund said Thursday. On the 20th anniversary of Operation Tiger, a successful India program to protect the animals, the fund said tiger populations have increased on the Indian subcontinent. But the world's tiger population has been reduced to about 7,000, with just 2,000 remaining in their main Asian habitats. Fifty years ago, 100,000 tigers roamed the earth. The population has been devastated by hunters seeking their bones for Oriental medicines. Wildlife experts also are concerned about the loss of tiger habitat, since they require among the largest areas of land of any animal to survive. Tigers generally hunt alone, and each animal can require hundreds of square miles to survive. Among threats to the tiger are poisoning by cattle owners, commercial logging and agriculture. 
in American Samoa for a year. Call the CSC at 639-5293 for times. 
• 
Saint Mary's all-school Palm Sunday Liturgy at the Church of Loretto on Sunday at 1 :30 p.m. Weather permitting, all will gather on the front steps of O'Laughlin Auditorium and process to the church. In the case of inclement weather, meet inside the church. All other liturgies are cancelled. 

• 
Seniors, Sr. Deanna Sabetta of the New York Arch­diocese Teacher Volunteer Program will be on campus Sunday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Society Bank in LaFor­tune, and Monday from 9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. She will interview those whose applications are complete. 

• 
Adworks, the student-run advertising agency, is now accepting applicants for the 1993-94 Executive Staff. Applications may be picked up in the Adworks office (300 LaFortune) and must be returned by Friday, April 9 at 5 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1792: Congress passed the Coinage Act, which authorized establishment of the U.S. Mint. 

• 
In 1917: President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress to declare war against Germany, saying, "The world must be made safe for democracy." 

• 
In 1983: Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko rejected President Ronald Reagan's proposal for reducing medium­range missiles in Europe, saying the plan was "unacceptable on all counts." 

• 
In 1986: Four American passengers were killed when a bomb exploded aboard a TWA jetliner en route from Rome to Athens, Greece. 



,...-------------~---------------------~~-------~~ 
Friday, April 2, 1993 The Observer 

Gender, genre alter views of media 
By DAVE HORAN News Writer 
Too often, interpretations of media ranging from movies to classic novels overlook the im­portant considerations of the gender of the author and the genre in which the medium is written, according to Mary Gerhart, visiting theology pro­fessor. 
"In the past, {readers') inter­pretations of texts generally slighted either gender or genre considerations," she said in a faculty forum based on her re­cently published book Genre Choices. Gender Questions. 
The current view among most scholars is that any read­ing of a book or viewing of a film or other medium involves analysis which arises from the reader and not the text itself, 

SMC to examine cable TV options 
By ALISON DASSO 
News Writer 
In a recent survey by the Residence Hall Association {RHA) 97 percent of Saint Mary's students who responded said they wanted cable television installed in residence hall lounges and in Haggar Col­lege Center. 
Approximately 500 people responded to the survey, which was taken March 25. 
Eighty-four percent of the students polled said that they would like a Fox affiliate in­cluded with cable service. MTV was the second most-requested channel asked for by 80 percent of the respondents. 
CNN was requested by 69 
Amnesty

International 
Meeting 
When: 8:00 p.m. Where: Dooley Room at LaFortune 
Everyone is welcome! 
Free 1 1~ 14" Large . 1 1 Topping


De1tvery• Pizza 
1with stix and 2 soft drinks 1 1 $S00 1 1 Pizzas 1 $10°0 +Tax I I -+Tax I I $1995 +Tax I ttl" 1 . . . _.._,._~ 1 10ffer expires 4/11 ~ 1 1 ~ 1 
Add1t10nal Toppmgs .95¢ each tfiiiJUIIIfs. Additional Toppings 95¢ each ~. Additional Toppings .95¢ each ~
271 11771 ... _______ .....________ ._ _______
I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J 
percent of those surveyed, fol­lowed by ESPN with 67 percent, and The Discovery Channel with 35 percent. 
Patty Warfield, Holy Cross Hall director, said that next year's RHA board will meet in the fall of 1993 to develop a proposal for Saint Mary's to re­ceive cable sometime during the next school year. 
There are several ideas on how to utilize cable, such as the possibility of forming a news­study group that would meet and discuss events on CNN, ac­cording to Warfield, an advisor to RHA. 
"I think students should get cable because of the current events that have been happen­ing in the past few years," said according to Gerhart. The crucial role of interpretation still does not receive enough recognition from many people, including students, she said. 
Gerhart, visiting this year from Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, New York, explained that after sitting on several panel discussions, she is convinced that interpretations of texts most often fail due to a failure to integrate both gender and genre analyses, which work in inverse relation to one another. 
Warning against "overgendering," that involves interpretations that fail to fully consider the structural and more traditional aspects of a text, Gerhart explained, "We all know that something which is politically-correct can still be a lousy text," 
1 1Lenten Special1 1 Partx Pack 11 1... 14" Large 1 1 4~14 L~rge 1 I I Cheese Pizza I I 1 Topptng I 
Gerhart cited a recent debate published in The New York Re­view which featured critic He­len Vendler against critics Su­san Gubar and Susan Gilbert. 
"Vendler recognized the dis­tinction between great texts and lesser, period pieces, and that was an important distinc­tion to be made." 
Likewise, overgendered in­terpretations focus too much at­tention on structural consid­erations and ignore the texts' interdisciplinary settings with regard to gender and other is­sues, she said. 
Gerhart explained that she never realized how many dif­ferent genres and genders exist until she began researching her book. 
"The sheer plurality of gen­ders needs to be made more of than we normally do," she said. 
RHA President Karen Fordham. 
Fordham added that students might eventually receive cable in their dorm rooms but that it will not happen for a while. 
"I think cable is a good idea to have in the hall," said Liz Holzemer, a sophomore in Mc­Candless Hall. "However, it would be even better if we all got cable in our rooms." 
The Long Range Planning Coordinating Committee re­cently recommended the im­plementation of campus-wide cable in the residence halls in its tentative recommendations for the College. The report is­sued by the committee said that cable television would open up opportunities for students and increase revenue. 
Still Sittin, Pretty! 
Happy 19th Birthday Christy! 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, Michael, Marie, Brian. Sue, & Karen 





F ever! 
~----·-~ 
page 3 

Europe faces difficult trip toward integration 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
Although European integra­tion was a popular idea a few years ago, current crises in Eu­rope have prolonged the inte­gration of the European com­munity by creating nationalistic barriers, according to Antonio Menendez, professor of sociol­ogy at Indiana University. 
"Most Europeans feel that with increased international interaction national identities might be lost," Menendez said. 
"Recently, Europe has shown the illusion of a promising fu­ture, but high unemployment Antonio rates, the 

Menendez
increasing number of refugees, and disenchanted farmers have resulted in nationalism that is almost fascist, as in the neo­Nazis of Germany." 
Attitudes in Europe vary from country to country and from person to person, accord­ing to Menendez. 
"Great Britain is reluctant to give up any sovereignty," he said, "they like to check how the pound is doing against the dollar." 
Great Britain, however, would benefit from further integration because the biggest investor in Great Britain is the EEC, according to Menendez. 
"Germany has always sup­ported the European union, especially since reunification," Menendez said. 
"However, eighty percent of the German citizens reject the idea of losing the mark. They want some kind of 'German Europe' but they don't want it immediately." 
While Germany supports the integration, France is resisting the idea due to reasons of both national pride deep-seeded fear of the Germans. 
"In France, a large part of the population do not want integra­tion," said Menendez. "The French elite are mainly in sup­port of European integration, but the common people are against it." 
Menendez believes that most citizens have stubborn French pride and want to live indepen­dently. 
"They fear that the European community will raise their taxes, destroy their farmers, and then destroy France," he said. 
The situation in Spain is very similar to France in that the elite are in favor of the integra­tion, while blue-collar citizens and farmers reject the idea. 
Presently, only forty percent of Spain supports European in­tegration, according to Menen­dez. 
"The Spanish worry that only the French and German cul­tures will survive because they 'hold the most weight' in Eu­rope," said Menendez. "They also worry that they will lose their regional cultures, as many Spanish people have already adapted to foreign ways," he continued. 
All European countries are so mixed already that they cannot avoid the action of the European integration, but they have a very long way to go, ac­cording to Menendez. 
MARIGOLD MARKET 

Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 
241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of Saint Mary's 


272-7510 

~---------------------------------------­
Frida~April2, 1993 The Observer page 4 
were more than enough commodations-everyone took extended hands willing to helpi care of everything for me." 
Policy Class Access 
her out. Montoya said he is concerned 
continued from page 1 
elevators, stairwells, hallways and lobbies. The survey also indicated 
66.9 percent cf students wished to see smoking prohibited in the 2nd floor and 24-hour lounges in the library. 
"We found that the faculty was in favor of prohibiting smoking in public areas which shows the need for a change, and we don't want to infringe on their rights since they use the facilities on campus also" said Melissa Whelan, Spiritual Life Commissioner. 
The current policy limits smoking to all vending areas, one lobby area in each hall, all student rooms except on floors designated "non-smoking," and the hallways in Le Mans and Holy Cross Halls. 
"We are hoping that by next year we can get the policy im­plemented because the per­centages show there is enough concern," said Tricia Wallace, RHA president-elect. 
SECURITY BEAT 
MON., MARCH 29 

10:36 a.m.Security responded to a case of suspicious activity at the Law Building. 
4:29 p.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of his vehicle's park­Ing decal while the vehicle was parked off campus. 
TUES., MARCH 30 

1:14 a.m. Security responded to a case of suspicious activity near Cripa Street. 
2:35 p.m. Security responded to a case of vandalism to University property near St. Edwards Hall. 
4:06 p.m.Securlty transported an In­jured Keenan Hall resident from the Stepan Basketball Courts to the Student Health Center. 
5:27 p.m. A Grace Hall resident and a South Bend resident were Involved In a two vehicle accident In the B16 parking lot. No Injuries were reported. 
8:45 p.m.Security responded to a vehicle on fire in the parking lot of the Notre Dame Credit Union. Notre Dame Fire put out the fire and no Injuries were reported. 
8:01 p.m. Security responded to an Injured graduate student at the Stepan Chemistry Building. 
WED., MARCH 31 

1:43 a.m. Two Notre Dame students reported the activity of a suspicious individual while they were In the 002 parking lot. 
8:40 a.m. A Solin Hall resident re· ported the theft of his bicycle from the east side of the dorm. 2:15p.m. A University employee re· ported the theft of his vehicle's park· lng decal while the vehicle was parked In the LaFortune 30 minute lot. 
2:47 p.m. Two Notre Dame students reported a two vehicle accident at the Intersection of Junlpar and Dorr Road. No Injuries were reported. 
THURS., APRIL 1 

12:03 a.m.Security transported an Injured Keenan Hall resident from the Loftus Center to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
,..---~------------------, UNIVERSITY Rf:SUMf: SERVICE 
R ' ' T · l
I. 

• ESUMES • ECHNICA 
•CREATiVE WRiTiNCt 
2 7 7" l 700 

l d ff b Up M ll
OCATE O 'CAMpUS y A 
continued from page 1 

preoccupations because of the way these preoccupations con­ditioned the writer's texts. 
"Sometimes they are forced to write in a codified way," he said. "Some things are implied, and my class will just be a way to explain these codified texts." 
Jerez-Farran said the idea for the course came from discussion with other universities and academics. He said that many of the leading universities around the world that Notre Dame compares itself to have for some time included gay and lesbian studies in their curricula. 
"The only requirements for students wishing to sign up for the course are open-minded­ness and curiosity along with the ability to write intelligently and interestingly," Jerez-Far­ran said. 
continued from page 1  
others-without independent." Associate Provost  being Father  

Oliver Williams said the admin­istration understands the needs of handicapped students, and said the University is currently in a process of upgrading all facilities on campus. 
"Every year we pick buildings which undergo remodeling, taking into consideration the adjustments that need to be made in order to make them accessible for disabled stu­dents," Williams said. "Some of the plans being considered are estimated at a cost of $30 mil­lion-money the administration simply does not have." 
Saint Mary's junior Tricia Wallace was confined to a wheel chair until recently after being struck by a drunk driver last summer. Fortunately, there 

REDUC~ REUS~ RECYCLE 
*Save up to $3000 on your next r.ar or truck *College graduate rebate of $400 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
Comer of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka 
From the basketball court to the Federal Court ... 
Happy Birthday Shiela Buckman 
Siegfried '93 



Love, 

Venus, Buck, Buff, Princess, Chow Boy, & Gram 

CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS IQ DART OOQK COURSES ADDED CHEM 119L 07 #5123 • General Chemistry I Laboratory; I cr. hr.; T 03:30­4:20; also meets T 04:20-06:15; cross-listed with CHEM IJ7L-07 MATI-1104 04 N5124 · Finite Mathematics; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 9:05·09:55 MBA 600 01 #5!22 • Interpersonal Communications; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 8:00­9:J5; MBA majors only MJ 402 01 #5119 • Medieval Spanish Literature; 3 cr. hrs.; TI-l 2:45 -4:00; cross-listed with ROSP 401-0J 
CHANGES 
BIOS 575 OJ N4950 ·should be 3 credit hours CSE 422 01 N35J9 • changedays/timeto: TI-109:30·10:45 ECON 223 01 Ni769 • ECON 223T corequisite ECON 223T all ECON 223 corequisite ECON 224A 01 N4577 -BA students only through Jrd period; then open to all ECON 224B OJ N4578 • BA students only through 3rd period; then open to all ENOL 426F OJ "4581 • Permission Required GEOS 519 OJ N5059 -remove prerequisite GEOS 598A 01 N4856 -remove prerequisite 
oovr 403 01 N4076-change days/time to: MW 12:50-02:05 oovr 436 01 N4652 -change prerequisite to: "GOYr 141 or 341" oovr 445 OJ N4568 • remove "Permission Required" oovr 480 01 N3872 • change prerequisite to: "GOYr 140 or 340" GOYr 599 01 N1598-Graduatestudentsonly LAW 696 01 #()974 • MastersofLawstudentsoniy 
MARK 350 01 N2284 -MARK 231 prerequisite 
"There were so many people who wanted to help me," she said. "I honestly didn't think I would have come back to school if I was anywhere else." 
Offering an alumna-donated motor scooter, a free parking pass to Notre Dame Stadium on football weekends and several keys to ground level entrances, Saint Mary's accommodated Wallace's handicap. 
Wallace said one of her biggest obstacles came in the form of a door that was com­pletely unaccessible to handi­capped persons at Le Mans Hall. But Wallace said help was only a phone call away. 
"Anne Marie Jordan (Le Mans Hall director) would come and open the door for me any time, but I couldn't have gotten into LeMans by myself," she said. "I felt bad having to be that dependent on everyone, but so many people were going out of their way to make ac-about the nature of the facilities the administration is consider­ing to upgrade facilities for handicap students. 
"I know that the administra­tion is coming up with plans to fix some of the problems, but I wonder if they are coming up with plans that satisfy what we need?" he said. "It would be nice if they could show us or maybe even consult us to see in exactly what areas we would like to see improvements." 
However, Montoya said many disabled students are not con­cerned with overwhelming construction changes. Instead, he said most students are con­cerned with the little things-things which will simply help them become independent members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
Contributions to this story were made by Jennifer Habrych and Jason Williams. 
SUMMER SCHOOL 1993 






eorgetown 

UNIVERSITY 

I 
,.----------------. MAY 2•..JUNE 18 PRE-SESSION JUNE7..JULY9 FIRSTSESSION ~UNE 7..JUL Y 30 EIGHT-WEEKCROSS SESSION '----------------'· JULY 12-AUGUST 13 SECOND SESSION 
During the summer momhs Georgetown Univer­sity's School for Summer and Continuing Education offers more than 300 regular graduate and under­graduate courses for all srudems. Visiting students from other colleges and universities can earn credits which are ordinarily transferrable to their own degree programs. Summer courses are taught by members of Georgetown's distinguished faculty and other visiting scholars. 
Enrollment is open to all studems in good standing at Georgetown and all other colleges and universities. foreign students with a TOEFL score of 550 or above (600 for linguistics courses) and individuals whose educational background and experience qualify them for the courses they wish to take. 
Catalogues along with the application form are avail­able by phone request 202-687-5942, fax request 202­687-8954 or mail request to: Georgetown University, SSCE/306 ICC, Washington, D.C. 20057-1075. 
Information for 0 Til~ F.nf!./ish as a Forrif!.11 LanJ!.Uaf!.l' Program oro Hi!!.h Srhool Programs is available through separate brochures. Please check the appropriate box to receive information. 
:-.!AM E ------------------------------­
\DDRESS ------------------------­
CITY---------STATE-----Zll' _____ 
(~II t•lllf.'t'ni/J IJ dll f'f/llfll opptJ,.,.IIUJiti/IINiflllrt'' dtnoll 1111/llllllfJII Ill ,.plat,.,./''"'' dd•u.umtl 

MARK 350 02 #2285 • MARK 231 prerequisite MARK370 OJ #2286 • change prerequisite to: MARK 231, BA 230 and MGTZ40 MARK370 02 N2281 • change prerequisite to: MARK 231, BA 230 and 
MGTZ40 ME 334L 01 ;II()J65 -ME 334 pre/corequisite ME 438 01 #4875 -ME 334 and (ME 327 or CHEG 327) prerequisite ME 439 01 #2434 • ME 334 and (ME 327 or CHEG 327) prerequisite MUS 203 01 N25!6 -change days/time to: MF 12:05-01:15; also meets: H 
6:30-08:30 PHIL 302 01 #()()86 • change days/time to: TI-l 09:30-10:45 ROFR 241 OJ N3246 • Permission Required ROFR 241 02 #3247 • Permission Required ROFR 24J OJ #3248 • Permission Required ROFR 24J 04 #3249 • Permission Required ROSP 515 01 ;11()732 • change day to: M 01:15-04:00 ROSP 583 OJ #4737 • change day to: W OJ:l5-04:00 soc 44J 01 #4801 • remove "Permission Required"; add: SOC J02 
prerequisite & Majon only soc 54J OJ #3935 • remove prerequisite and "Majors only restriction; add: 
"Permission Required" TI-IEO 255 all TI-IEO 100, 195, ZOO or 201 prerequisite TI-IE0603 OJ #1122 • change time to: T01:15-03:45 TI-IEO 644 01 ;11()691 • change time to: H OJ:15-03:45 
COURSES CANCELLED EE 498J OJ 8 4912 HIST 604 OJ #4691 PHIL 222 01 N3662 PSY 361 01 N3176 oovr 463 OJ #08J7 Ml 604 01 #4708 
PHIL 410 01 N4767 THEO 200 03 Nll77 
iN UNiVERSiTY GARd(:N~L-----------------------------------' 
----~-~---------------------------~----­
page 5 

Friday, April 2,1993 The Observer 
Clinton urges aid on eve of summit 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) -In an impassioned plea for spending scarce tax dollars on Russian aid, President Clinton said Thursday that America should help "not out of charity" but as a crucial investment in peace and prosperity. 
"The danger is clear if Rus­sia's reforms turn sour, if it re­verts to authoritarianism or dis­integrates into chaos," Clinton said, two days before a summit with beleaguered Russian Pres­ident Boris Yeltsin in Vancou­ver, British Columbia. 
The world cannot afford to see 
Russia turn into a much-larger 
version of chaotic Yugoslavia 
"armed with a vast arsenal of 
nuclear weapons," Clinton said. 
He made his case in a speech before a convention of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, meeting at the U.S. Naval Academy. 
It was his most detailed dis­
cussion of the political and eco­
nomic crisis in Russia and what 
he feels is at stake for the 
United States. Clinton offered 
an unqualified endorsement of 
Yeltsin as the leader of reforms. 
"The success of Russia's re­
newal must be a first-order 
concern to our country," he 
said. 
Yeltsin, who narrowly over­
came an impeachment attempt, 
is looking to the West for money 
and technical assistance to ease 
Russian misery resulting in part from belt-tightening economic reforms. 
The Russian leader also hopes Clinton can boost his prestige before an April 25 referendum on who has ultimate authority: Yeltsin or the Communist-era Congress. 

The president urged Ameri­cans to be patient with Russia's faltering pace of reforms and said they should not be con­cerned by "every growing pain within democracy." He recalled that America's own history was marked by revisions of the Constitution and even fist fights in Congress. 
"You can't be so impatient about what's happened in the 
r---------------------------------------------------, 
Save 50¢ 
when you buy a medium or large shake of 
c. 1
lrozen yogurt. ( Origina ' nonfat, or sugar

free nonfat) 
"'rvu'r-e A Sur-e Winner 
When "'()U Live At 
t-ll~k()O' Vlllaae 
Save S24-()!
Hurry ln. For s limited time on s one-year /esse. 
Efficiencies from only $250 1-Bedrooms from only $265 2-Bedrooms from only $325 
• 
BeautHully Landscaped • 24-hour Emergency Grounds Maintenance Service 

• 
Pool &Ciubhousa • Planned Activities 

• 
Laundry Facilities • Free Aerobics 

• 
Balcony or Patio • Close To Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 



What are you waiting for? Call or stop by today and we11 show you why you can't lose at Hickory Village. 
~

272-1880 

~ 

+UCKORU
<
"' 
" 

DlLLA~Efj
1.!"' 
:z: McKINLEY 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, 
JEFFERSON 

Sat. 1o-4 & Sun. 12-4 
short stretch of time from (Mikhail) Gorbachev to Yeltsin to the present crisis," he said. 
"Despite today's troubles, I have great faith that Russian reform will continue and eventually succeed," the presi­dent said. 
In a message directed to Russian listeners, Clinton said, "I speak for Americans every­where when I say: We are with you." 
Mindful of the unpopularity of foreign aid, Clinton said that many Americans, watching the budget deficit grow larger, ask, "Why in the world should we help a distant people when times are so tough here at home?" 
Answering his own question, he said, "We must act now, not out of charity, but because it is a wise investment. ... While our efforts will entail new costs, we can reap even larger dividends for our safety and our prosper­ity if we act now." 
He said America had spent trillions of dollars on the Cold War. "If Russia were to revert to imperialism or were to plunge into chaos, we would need to reassess all our plans for defense savings. We would have to restructure our defenses to meet a whole different set of threats than those we now think will occur. That means billions of dollars less for other uses" 
_.,,,,~·~ft,,_...,~ nmmo1~A-. of Abu 
Jews anywhere ev'f~rvwhere " Nelson said. 

The indic~ents accused the four_ of nmning a racketeering '"'"'" .. '".. ,._ included the .':m:<:·''"''"''" n~v~uu·~ntt1._ girl's death and differem~e kill Jews, blow -El:nbassy ill buy weapons _ , money to other 
members. 
It the four also planned to kill anyone within the group or outside who could expose the plots. ·The girl's death was the only ~laying alleged to have been carried out. ' 
The indi~tment was issued 
Wed;tl ' ay but remained 
seale lthe defendants 
,_ ,:ii>MKIVi:':'-were in c~Wdy. 'fhey a:re Tina 
Js&'s f{l.tlier. Zeil} Isa. 61; who _js 011 death row; ·Saif Nijmeh, 3~. arrested at his St. Louis Co\lllty home; Luie Nijmeh, 29. arrested· at his Miamisburg, Ohio, home: and Tawfiq Musa, 43, arrestedin Racine, WtS. All four are ofPalestinian descent. Musa and the l\lijmehs were held without bond pend~ Ulf;('_ nEiarllllg~; ,next week. They 
and fines 


Salvadoran killers freed by judge 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Two military officers convicted in the 1989 murders of six Jesuit priests left prison Thursday, freed by a Salvado­ran judge. 
Col. Guillermo Benavides and Lt. Yusshy Rene Mendoza were the first to benefit from a con­troversial general amnesty for human rights violators from the country's 12-year civil war. The amnesty took effect Wednesday. 
Both men were serving 30­year prison terms in the west­
ern city of Santa Ana. 
Prison Warden Juan Campos said Mendoza slipped out of the prison Thursday night to avoid a waiting crowd of journalists. Benavides left separately later. 
Many fear the amnesty will impede a U.N.-backed panel's recommendation that the ac­cused be punished and will close the issue of abuses before most Salvadorans learn the full story about them. 
Proposed last month by President Alfredo Cristiani and 

~~GREAT \YALL 

CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT 6 COCKTAIL LOUNGE Authentic SZechuan, Mandarin a Hunan Culslnal 
UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 
95 95
ALL YOU CAN EAT$8 ~~ $3 
lncllldn Soup, Sal8d Bar, Appettaara, I Dtffat'Mit emr.. 6 Deanrta WayS., South Band 272•7376 
to lfemlall'alnn) 



Attention 
approved by the National Assembly, which his rightist 
ARENA Party controls, the amnesty blocks criminal charges against Salvadorans who were named in the report as committing rights abuses during the country's 12-year civil war. 
It is not clear, however, if it also protects them from the punishments proposed in the report. 
The "Truth Commission" recommended, among other things, the dismissal of several military leaders, the replace­ment of the entire Salvadoran Supreme Court and a ban on political office for some offend­ers, including some leftist guerrilla leaders, for 10 years. 
The U.N.-backed report by a team of international jurists blamed the military and rightist death squads for about 95 per­cent of the atrocities during the civil war. 

College of Business Administration Sophomores and Juniors 
If you are interested in serving as the College of Business Administration representative on the University Academic Code of Honor Committee for the 93/94 academic year please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes ... Healy Center, no later than April12, 1993. 
page 6 The Observer Friday, April 2, 1993 
Defense rests in King beating trial 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Defense attorneys in the Rodney King beating trial stunned a federal court Thursday by abruptly resting their case, a move one lawyer said was designed to unnerve prosecutors. 
Attorney Harland Braun, who had told Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer he had 10 witnesses waiting to testify but then called none, said outside court: "I just wanted to keep Clymer up till 3 in the morning 
they can't deal with surprise." 
Braun and attorney Paul De­Pasquale, who represents former police officer Timothy Wind, halted the defense by resting without calling any fur­ther witnesses Thursday morning. 
The attorney for Officer Lau­rence Powell rested late Wednesday, canceling his client's expected testimony. 
The lawyers denied they stopped their case because sev­eral witnesses had backfired on them, most notably a highway patrolwoman who wept on the stand as she recalled the bru­tality of King's beating. 
"We got together and we decided less is better," Braun said. 
Braun denounced the prose­cutors outside court saying, "They're bad people, evil peo­ple.... They're overly anal peo­ple. They can't deal with sur­prise." 
"One thing I never forget when I deal with the govern­ment is this is a political prose­cution," he said of the racially charged case. "They indicted an innocent man, my client, for strategic reasons, not based on the evidence.... I assume they are scum and I treat them as scum." 
Of Justice Department attor­ney Barry Kowalski, Braun said: "He's just like an S.S. offi­cer for the civil rights division." 
Only one of the four white policemen on trial, the sergeant who commanded the March 3, 1991, videotaped beating of the black motorist, took the stand in the federal trial. Other defendants said Sgt. Stacey Koon adequately defended them. "Stacey Koon speaks for ev­
, eryone who's willing to accept responsibility for their actions," said Braun. "We salute Stacey Koon." 
He acknowledged his client, Theodore Briseno, disagreed with Koon's handling of King's arrest and testified so at the state trial, which ended in ac­quittal on most charges. That verdict set off three days of deadly rioting. 
Braun said Briseno joined forces with his co-defendants in the federal trial to deprive the government of a split defense. 
Braun expects the case to go to the jury by Wednesday. 
Clymer said he was unpre­pared to call rebuttal witnesses immediately because of the premature defense conclusion. He moved to play for jurors a two-hour segment of Briseno's videotaped testimony at the of­ficers' state trial. The defense objected and the judge did not immediately rule. 
U.S. District Judge John Davies also took under consid­eration motions by the four defendants to be immediately acquitted. Their lawyers said the government didn't prove its case. 

Attorneys fail to end cult standoff 
WACO, Texas (AP) -Two at­torneys met for eight hours Thursday with the leaders of a heavily armed religious cult and said they wouldn't go back, failing to end a nearly five-week standoff with federal agents. 
"We've done about all a lawyer can do now," attorney Dick DeGuerin said after a fourth day of face-to-face con­tact with cult leader David Ko­resh. 
He was joined for the first time Thursday by Jack Zim­mermann, an attorney hired to represent Koresh's lieutenant, Steven Schnejder. 
"We've answered all their questions. It's now decision time for them," Zimmermann said. "They understand what they're facing in the legal sys­tem and what their opportuni­ties are in the courtroom." 
The FBI had expressed hope earlier this week that contact with the lawyers would con­vince Koresh, a doomsday preacher who has claimed to be Jesus Christ, and his 96 fol-
TRANSLATORS 

Earn extra money as contract transla­tor In growing segment of our commu­nications business. Call now for details and information packet. Zoss Com­munications, Inc. 219-288-1422. 
Kamm's Island Inn 
on the river 
Suites overlooking the river 
$75 per night­
2 night minimum 
for graduation weekend 
Calll-800-955-KAMM for reservations or information 

lowers to end a 33-day standoff peacefully. 
"They are going to do it. Now it's just a question of timing," Zimmermann said. 
Schneider has led negotiations during the standoff while Koresh nurses wounds from the Feb. 28 gun battle that began the siege. Four Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents and at least two cultists died in the shootout when the ATF tried to serve search and arrest warrants. 
DeGuerin said Wednesday that Koresh's pain was slowing his work and asked the FBI to send in a doctor. The agency refused. 
"Our goal is not to treat ev­erybody in there and make them happy. Our goal is to get them out," FBI agents Bob Ricks said Thursday. "There's plenty of medical attention just a few hundred yards away." 

Tower bomb suspect released on asylum 
NEW YORK (AP} -The 
newest suspect in the World 
Trade Center bombing entered 
the country illegally but was 
released because he requested . asylum, an immigration official said Thursday. Now he's the ' su)lject of a worldwide search. .. Also Thursday, a Sept. 14 'trial datewas set for the fugi­tive, 25-year-old Ramzi Ahmed 'Yousefi''and three other men +charged in the bombing. The 
three others appeared in Man­
hattan's. federal court, relaxed, 
even laughing at times. 
Judge Kevin Duffy imposed a 
gag rule meant to stop leaks to 
the public about evidence fol­. lowing complaints by the de­fense. 
Lawyers entered innocent 
pleas for Mohammad Salameh, 
2.5; Nidal Ayyad, 25; and Mah­
mud Abouhalima, 33, the al­
leged organizer of the Feb. 26 
bombing that killed six people 
and injured more than 1,000 
others. 
As Duffy read the indictment, , Salameh shook his head vigor­¥ously at the allegation that the 
defendants damaged the 
world's second tallest buildings 
"Jly means of fire and an ex­
plosive."' 
Earlier, Salameh, of Jersey City, N.J., smiled at artists seated in the jury box as his lawyer, Robert Precht, relayed his request that they sketch him to look "like a human be­ing, not like a terrorist." 
All three men had been in­dicted before, but were re-ar· raigned on a new indictment that combined their cases with Yousers. 
Yousef, an Iraqi-born man who lived in Jersey City and has been described as a major player in the bombing scheme, is the subject of a worldwide search, said FBI spokesman Joe Valiquette. 
Immigration records show Yousef was once in the gov­ernment's grasp. 
Rosemary LaGuardia, a spokeswoman for the Immigra­tion and Naturalization Service, said he entered the United States from Pakistan in September but did not have a visa and was detained at Kennedy International Airport. Because he requested asylum, a hearing was scheduled and he was released. He did not show up for a hearing last week, she said. 

Notre Dame Li 
presents 


Sing unto God 
State: Zip:.___ 

send copies of Sing unto God 
@ $9.00 per tape or 
$12.00 per Compact Disc. $__ 
Plus shipping & handling (75¢ per item) 
~·­

otal enclosed 
Please make checks payable to Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
Race for Education 
April3 • 10:30 a.m. 5K (3.1 mile) Run & FunWalk 


Notre Dame Law School 
HLSA 

Registration-Law School Lounge at Noon, Mon-Fri, March 29-April2 & morning of race -$12 T,Shirts will be given to the first 125 participants. For more information call Carlos Cancel • 634-3105 Funds to go towards establishment of Hispanic Education Fund. 

Get a new helmet! 
Chrb Donohoe-Pitcher, JUnior, "does nice job, good in long relief." Has started rwo games. 

Business 
Friday, April 2, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
White House calls on Shannon 
New evidence economJ has slgwed .·. · ·.•. · nr, 
•WASHINGTON...,.. A trio·o reports ol1 jobs, building al)d 1:;; manufactbring gave fresh evidence the economy ha.s ~Iqwed':( from its rapid year-end acceleratloiL '('Jie governiUenl said Thursday tbat new johJess claims UlleXpeCtedJyJumped 33,Q90A, last week, while construction spending inched up just 0~ rs percent in february..The Nationa}Assoeiationof ~urcha,~in~ Management said a survey ofJts members found thtf':F manufacturing economy continuing to grow in March. but at a slower pace tban in January and February. 
Jagan financial liberalization law in .~ffe(;t 


Union assails BMW's new South C11rolina plapt
•wooDCLIFF LAKE, NJ-Thousands of union members. protested outside BMW's North American headquarters; accusing the German autom~ker of building a plant in South; Carolina that will pay its workers like Third World employees. The hour-long protest Thursday forced poli~e to clo~e abljut a quarter-mile stretch of road in front of the suburban corporate'"' offices. Company spokesman Thomas McGurn said BM'\:V will,,: not decide on a wage until it begins hiring thE! plant's 2;ooo·:r workers at the end of the year. 


Beauchamp details venture capitalism at ND 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
Business Editor 
Venture capital investing plays a crucial, yet little-recog­nized role in the nation's econ­omy, as well as private institu­tions like the University of Notre Dame, said Father William Beauchamp, Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, at the College of Business Ad­ministration's annual Finance Forum. 
"Venture capital is an in­vestment in our country, our future, and our quality of life," said Beauchamp. "It is the business of building busi­nesses." 
Money raised by venture capitalists have allowed nu­merous fledgling companies like Apple Computers, Federal Express. Jenny Craig, and Mi­crosoft to grow into industry giants. 
Since 1980, Notre Dame has become a significant player in the field of venture capital in-
William Beauchamp 
vestment, according to Beauchamp. 
"''m proud to say that we are recognized as one of the most knowledgeable venture capital investors in the country. We have been invited, with em­phasis on invited, to invest with some of the nation's largest venture capital firms." 
As proof, Beauchamp pointed to returns from Notre Dame's venture capital investments which averaged 19 percent an­nually, compared to 9.4 percent 
By KATIE CAPUTO 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Professor William Shannon attended a conference at the White House on Monday entitled "American Business: Meeting the Chal­lenge". 
Shannon was invited to join President Bill Clinton, Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, and Secretary of Education Richard Riley to discuss the creation of jobs for America's youth. 
"I was excited to learn that Clinton and two leading mem­bers of his cabinet were inter­ested in suggestions and con­cerns of the business commu­nity in launching a successful program to encourage busi­nesses to offer summer jobs for America's youth," said Shan­non. 
On March 25, Shannon re­ceived a fax from Alexis Her­man, Assistant to the President of the United States, inviting him to the meeting. 
"This is the first fax from the White House anyone remem­bers getting at Saint Mary's," said Shannon. 
According to Shannon, the White House invited a small cross section of American busi­ness people, including representatives from large firms, mid-sized firms, and small firms, to participate. 
Shannon is not only a pro­fessor at Saint Mary's, but he is also an entrepeneur. In 1978, he founded the Hacienda Mexi-

William Shannon 
can Restaurants, and is now the chairman of the chain. 
In the past, Shannon owned and was the president of Avante Industries, manufacturers of food equipment, in Wheeling, 
IL. He was also the corporate vice-president of an international company called Berkel Inc., in LaPorte, IN. 
Shannon has been a full-time member of Saint Mary's faculty since 1983 in Business Admin­istration and Economics. He teaches marketing and inter­national business courses, as well as an entrepreneurship for women course. He is also a fac­ulty advisor for the Notre Dame Council for International Busi­ness Development. 
"I was excited for the oppor­tunity to represent the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame com­munity at the White House, as well as provide a small business perspective towards an obviously worth-while pro­gram," said Shannon. 
The conference was held on Monday in the East Room of the 
for bonds, and 12 percent for stocks. 
Beauchamp emphasized that the University shies away from high-yield, but risky invest­ments. "We don't look to the short-term in our endowment. As an institution in perpetutity, we look to the forever, if you will." 
Notre Dame is currently in­volved in eighteen limited part­nerships with $57 million dol­lars in committed capital. Ven­ture capital investments, which now make up 65 percent of the University's investments, are important for the diversification of Notre Dame's $730 million endowment, said Beauchamp. 
"Our venture capital goals are two-fold. Our primary intention is to outperform the public equity market. But almost as important a goal is our tertiary goal, to reduce our endow­ment's volatility. Basically, we're hedging our bets." 
Notre Dame became involved in venture capital investment right when the field finally be­gan to attract public attention, during the 1980s. 
"Until the 1980s, Notre Dame's investments were plain, vanilla stocks and bonds. Then we committed $4 million to a venture capital investment and received back $8 million," said Beauchamp. 
Since then, Notre Dame has never looked back. 
"We recognize venture capi­talists as one of the principal fa­cilitators of change in the world. They start often from scratch, the ground level, the very beginning, and transform an idea into reality," said Beauchamp. "We at Notre Dame realize we have the op­portunity to contribute to the nation's economy." 
James Blair, a partner at the venture capital investment firm of Domain Associates, and Jacqueline Morby, senior gen­eral partner of TA Associates, also spoke to the Finance Fo­rum. 
Bentsen: Clinton administration won't budge on energy tax 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Trea­sury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen told business leaders Thursday the Clinton administration won't budge on its proposed energy tax, but he listened with interest to their plea for more investment incentives. 
Top officials of the National Association of Manufacturers, in an hour-long private meeting with Bentsen and senior deputies, complained that the proposed tax on energy ranging from gasoline to coal to electricity would amount to a tax on production. 
It would put U.S. manufactur­ers at a disadvantage with their overseas competitors and hurt the administration's effort to create jobs, they said. 
Stanley Gault, chief executive of Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. of Akron, Ohio, said the tax would add $1 to $1.50 to the cost of making tires in the United States, hampering his company's efforts to compete against Michelin of France and Pirelli of Italy. 
Bentsen, however, refused to budge, saying the administra­tion believed its proposal treated all regions of the coun­try equitably and that manufac­turers' energy costs would only increase from 2.6 percent of total production cost to 2.7 per­cent. 
In a statement accompanying details of the energy tax re­leased Thursday, the secretary said the administration would, as much as possible, encourage the cost of the tax to be passed on to consumers. The depart­ment said tax penalties would be exacted against utilities whose state regulators do not allow them to pass the tax on to energy users. 
Also, in a concession to the Northeast and Midwest, the department said it would tax fuel oil at less than half the rate of gasoline and diesel fuel. In new estimates, it said the im­pact of the tax would range from $124 per person in New England to $102 per person in the East South Central states ­Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi and Tennessee. 
The manufacturers argued that a value added, or national sales, tax would be better than an energy tax. Bentsen said a value-added tax was a possibil­ity, but not this year. .._ 
White House. Vice-President AI Gore was called on to replace President Clinton, who had to leave town. 
"Vice-President Gore expertly lead the discussion in the absence of President Clinton who left the White House unex­pectedly due to the acute illness of his father-in-law," said Shannon. 
According to Shannon, the group discussed creating summer job opportunities for college students who have the energy and potential to work. It was acknowledged that stu­dents who get out of school in May or June may lose some ac­quired skills before returning to school in September. 
"It is a positive activity in trying to use the economy to help American youth continue to learn," said Shannon. 
Shannon said that it was his impression that the officials were sincerely interested in the group's comments and sugges­tions. 
According to Shannon, he was invited to participate be­cause he had been on The United States Government Na­tional Advisory Council for Small Business Administrations. Recently, he was appointed by Congressman Tim Roemer to the White House Conference for Small Businesses, to be held at the beginning of next year. 
Shannon said it was very nice to participate, and he also felt he made an important contribution. 
FTC votes 

to/cut cable 
rates 10o/o 
ii'WASHINGTON fAPl ~· Mll­)ions ofAmericanswill paflO tp15 per~~ntJe~~ for cable TV under a rule adopted Thursday by regulators re':< asserting their authorio/ ove1J'_j. an industry criticized for skyrocketing prices: 
The. Federal Communica­
tions Commission voted 3·0 to 
cut cable rates 10 percent·•· 
from their Sept. 30, 1992; 
leyel and erase any ln.crea.ses 
operators imposed since then. 
:'. .·~:~L . ::::·:·_.·:· . 
····The rollbacks will apply to. 
57 million viewers who sub­
scribe to more than 11;ooo. 
cable syst~ms li.censed b)' 
com iti~s. Loc~ autho.l'b: 
ties sf apply t_he FCC' 
guideli~es r~r Pas!¢ servi~ J local broadcast 'SignJ\ls plu~ any ,public· access cable cb,a.n~ 

.•. ,···!Ji~Pf~~;~:W:<.,. .. .;:~L;:.:·::::·~ ·:~~,. 
e FCC'srate·formula also 
so-called exp~ded 
vice. Tb,e FCC will 
take complaints from con­
sUJne.rs..tbatthey .11-l'e paying 
unreasonable charges for tb,a!' 
~er!~~e.. wh~ch typically ill!: 
~&Iunes superstations and 
sate_llit~·delivered channels. 
.s.P,P'\i .~$ ESfN and CNN; Q? 
Span> and .the Discovery 
Channel. · '";; 
.· •··. Premium channels like '.Home BoX Office or pay~per­vi6w services are not covered, Subspribers arenQtlik;ely to :$ee aq.y reductions for six mon •FCC offi . Ca­,ble tor~ euf 


Viewpoint 
page 8 April2, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Edltor-ln.Chlef David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ......... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager •..•Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor.•••••Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ..•... Steph Goldman Sports Editor •••••...•.•George Dohrmann Production Manager ....•...••• Kathy Fong Accent Edltor ..•••••••.••••••Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor •••••••••••••••..•••.•.Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .••.Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of lhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space Is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters Is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-In-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EdltorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'It happened to me, and it could happen to you'
How could this be, especially with the men at Notre Dame? After all, they come from stable families which instill traditional Catholic values, one of which is to be humanitarian. They are clean-cut and handsome. You know, good ol' American boys. They would never smoke a joint if it was the last thing to eat on this earth. 
II. One in every six college females is raped during her a vase for me. John and I had been dating for almost three months. We headed for the parties on the upper floors. Ev­eryone had been drinking and having a grand old time. 
"Would you like a drink 
"Sure." 
"What would you like?" 

I saw the blender in the corner where some guys were making what looked like strawberry daiquiris. Yum, my 

DOONESBURY 
seven proceeded to watch. I'm sure they were nice guys. 
V. It's easy, don't listen. 
What I am trying to convey · and what the college is trying to convey to you is really fiction. This does not happen, espe­cially at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. You're still safe. Don't listen to just anything you read. I didn't. 
A Survivor Dear Editor: 

In opening the Observer yesterday, I was amazed to see an issue that has been plaguing my life for 3/4 of a year. That issue is rape -there, I said it. No one knows but a rape victim what that word does to you. How it grates on your teeth to even say it. When the word is said in passing, you look around because you know that they know. You feel it, their eyes pouring in on you noticing the change in your face that you try so desperately to hide. 
This was not supposed to happen to me and it shouldn't happen to anyone. Everyone's rape experience is different. Perhaps that is why it is so hard to come forward and say that yes, I am a victim. Because there is no straight definition of what a victim is. That is why I have been so afraid to go for 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
help. I don't want people to stereotype me. I don't want to have to deal with this burden. l have tried to push it away, but in doing so, I am only hurting myself more. 
With the help of a close friend, I am going to get help. This has been hurting me too long. It has been hurting a relationship that I care about. 
The last thing l want to say is this: Don't be fooled or led astray because you go to a Catholic institution like Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. Don't believe that it won't happen to you. Because it will if you aren't careful. I am no different than you. If you were to see me, you would see no scars. But I am injured deep within my heart. 
It happened to me. It could happen to you. 
ASurvivor 



-~--~--­

~ ~ ---------~-­
Viewpoint
Friday, April 2, 1993 page 9 
The 'Absolute Truth' is justifiably questionable 
Recent weeks have shown that religious extremism, generally thought to inhabit only places outside the United States, such as the Middle East, is alive and well here in the good old US of A. Although the motives are still not clear, it appears that Islamic fundamentalists tried to blow up the World Trade Center. Next we have of a wacko group in Texas, headed by someone claiming to be the messiah, which has stockpiled massive amounts of weapons with the result being that, so far, four federal agents and at least three group members are dead. Then, a doctor was killed in Florida because he provided a constitutionally protected ser­vice for women. 
What all these instances have in common is that those who committed the acts of violence believe that they possess the ultimate, Absolute Truth and that whatever they do to bring about their version of the truth is justified. Absolute Truth defies logic and limits; it allows an individual to justify his or her actions without regard for the consequences, whether it means blowing up an airplane or office building, assassinating a doctor, or psychologically terrorizing people. Anything goes because this is what Allah or God or Jehovah wants. 
A type of extremism has existed to a certain extent here on campus, but we and the rest of the community are faced with it head on as South Bend is inundated with college students from around the country who have decided that they have nothing better to do on their spring break than come to Northern Indiana to get arrested. Thus, it is timely and appropriate to examine some of the extremist positions and activities undertaken by various factions of the anti-choice movement. 
A couple of quotes from Randall Terry, founder of Op­eration Rescue, the most well known anti-choice group, should serve to underline such extremism. In 1990 he said: "...we are in more danger than we were then [1986], we are even teetering more towards severe chastening and judg­ment, and we may have passed the window where America can be restored without bloodshed." Thus, while disavowing violence on other occasions, he seems to be saying that his Absolute Truth is leading his movement towards justifiable bloodshed. Another quote, from 1989, will illustrate the irrational persecution complex which he, and others, uses to justify his actions: "I've read and reread Jeremiah lately, and I encourage you to do the same. I have come away seeing the frightening reality that op­pression, tyranny and destruc­tion are stalking the church and the nation. In a few short years, we may find ourselves hiding in the hills to protect out families, or locked up in huge holding facilities. We may find our churches seized, closed or burnt to the ground; our chil­dren being taken by the state, our women violated; terrorism on American soil; a national economic collapse so great that you may have to spend your 
Kurt Mills 
"On the Other Hand" 

life's savings for a loaf of bread; drought and famine so severe that people actually degenerate to cannibalism." Such apocalyp­tic views (which, by the way, can also be seen nightly on channel 46) create a climate which breeds extremism and violence. This quote also seems to indicate that any form of government other than theoc­racy is seen as oppressive and a violation of the Absolute Truth. 
This extremism includes a wide range of activities. The recent murder of Dr. Gunn is the first in what may be a growing trend. And the responses to the murder are indicative. When hearing of the assassination, protesters out­side another Florida clinic re­portedly shouted "Praise God! Praise God! One of the baby­killers is dead." John Burt, the regional director of Rescue America, the group to which Dr. Gunn's murderer belonged, and a former member of the Ku Klux Klan, said: "We don't condone this, but we have to remember that Dr. Gunn has killed thousands and thousands of babies." 
If he were truly serious about not supporting such tactics, there would be no "but," no qualifier whatsoever in his statement. And, the head of Rescue America, while dis­avowing such activity, set up a fund, not for the victim's family, but for the person who carried out this crime. 
One level below murder have been the various fire bombings of women's clinics, including one clinic and two doctor's offices in Pensacola. Various forms of psychological violence have also been committed against doctors and other members of clinics and their families, as well as patients and 
·their families. Dr. Gunn and other doctors have had their faces, addresses, and telephone numbers put on "wanted" posters, certainly an indirect incitement to violence. These doctors and other clinic workers have been harassed and terrorized at home and work -including death threats (which is ironic since the movement calls itself "pro-life") -and have had vandalism done to their property and clin­ics. Clients of clinics, both those seeking abortion and those not, are terrorized at home. For ex­ample, anti-choice activists copy down the license plate numbers of women who go into clinics and then use contacts in the department of motor vehi­cles to illegally find out their phone numbers and where they live. Then, they are harassed at home and their relatives and ministers are informed that they were at a clinic where abortions are performed. Being on a mission from god apparently justifies harassment and intrusion into other people's private lives. 
Finally, a few thoughts on the immediate impact of anti-choice protest. Here in South Bend, police erected a fence around the clinic which CALL tried to shut down. The head of CALL said this was unnecessary and a waste of taxpayers' money. submit that the real waste is that which is spent on extra police, jail and judicial activities to protect women from these people who come in from outside to harass others. Further, CALL complained that Notre Dame was losing its catholic character because it would not put them up for two weeks and provide them with meals and a base from which to launch their illegal activities, and because the administration allowed people such as Bill Clinton and Jesse Jackson, who are pro-choice, to speak on campus. This further demonstrates the totalizing, anti-intellectual and anti-demo­cratic mindset inherent in those who believe they hold Absolute Truth. As President Malloy pointed out, this is a university, and part of being a university means allowing and encouraging discussion on a variety of issues from different viewpoints. Anything else means giving up our ability to think. 
Not all anti-choice activists engage in all of the above activities. However, the mindset which says that one knows Absolute Truth can lead just about anybody to justify just about anything -even murder. And even lesser forms of ha­rassment impose psychological violence, which, apparently, is okay with god. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­didate in the Department of Government and International Studies. 

If Clinton knows right from wrong, then he won't choose left 
be interpreted or even altered tion "on the grounds of race, JUDGEMENT, the consequence decide what the law should be. of judges. by judges so as to promote so­color, or national origin," as would be substitution of their If unelected activist judges cial justice. Leftist philosopher even Thurgood Marshall and pleasure to that of the usurp this role, then democracy Democrats are often seen as Ronald Dworkin, for instance, other activists have always ad­legislative body." crumbles and aristocracy proponents of judicial activism, calls for an injection of "fresh mitted. Therefore, regardless of Similarly, Supreme Court grows. Whether a judge thinks while Republicans are viewed moral insight" into old laws and the good intentions behind Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes a law is poorly written, archaic, as favoring judicial conser­a "fusion of constitutional law affirmative action, it is neces­argued that "(i)t is dangerous to or unjust is irrelevant. He or vatism. This century's two most and moral theory." sarily illegal, right? Wrong. Ac­she is bound to faithfully inter­prominent activist justices, Earl 
tivist judges reasoned that both pret the law and may not add to Warren and William Brennan, This philosophy was shared the Civil Rights Act and affirma­or subtract from it. were Republicans. Likewise,
Rick Acker 

by a majority of Supreme Court tive action promoted social jus­Justice White, well known for
In My Opinion 

Justices during the 1960s and tice and that, in spite of the Moreover, judges who do not his judicial conservatism, is a 1970s. Faced with problems law's actual words, the two feel bound by governmental Kennedy appointed Dcnocrat 
tie down legislatures too closely
"far beyond the wisdom of even could not be inconsistent. In laws are unlikely to recognize (which explains his decision, so the wisest of the Founding Fa­fact, these judges often found by judicial constrictions not any laws except their own vi­confusing to the media, to re­thers," as Chief Justice Earl that the Civil Rights Act actually necessarily arising from the sions of social justice. In partic­sign while a Democrat is in the Warren put it, judges had to required affirmative action. words of the constitution." ular, they are unlikely to feel White House). Hopefully, Bill apply their own wisdom. As a As a result, conservatives are constrained by natural law (the Clinton, like his hero John F. 
opposed to court created rights
result, Warren and his cohorts Conservatives, on the other system of rules laid down by Kennedy, will have the wisdom created a plethora of new con­hand, argue that judges are in­for criminals, for women seek­God for human conduct), which to appoint a judicial conserva­ing abortions, or for anyone
stitutional rights and greatly terpreters of the law, not cre­Justice Clarence Thomas has tive rather than an activist. expanded those that already ators of justice. In the words of else. As Justice Holmes said, accurately described as "the existed. the Federalist Papers (the semi­there is "no reason for reading only alternative to the willful­Rick Acker is a 1992 graduate 
official commentary to the into (the law) more than we find ness of both run-amok majori­
of the Notre Dame Law School 

Even new laws were not safe Constitution), "(t)he courts must there." ties and run-amok judges." and is currently doing research from judicial rewriting. The declare the sense of the law; Harvard law professor and ju­there. Civil Rights Act of 1964, for in­and if they should be disposed In democratic societies, only dicial activist Laurence Tribe 
to exercise WILL instead of the people, acting through their conceded the point, claiming
stance, prohibited discrimina­
elected representatives, can 
What is the role of the judi­ciary in a democratic society? More precisely, are judges lim­ited to accurately interpreting the law or do they have a much 
•broader mandate to administer justice? This issue will be at the heart of the selection and con­firmation of Bill Clinton's re­placement for retiring Justice Byron White. Senators and media commentators will focus on narrow political/legal ques­tions such as abortion, affirma­tive action and criminal justice, but the answers they give will be dictated in large part by their position on the role of the judiciary. 
On one side of the debate we find the judicial activists. They argue that laws, particularly old laws like the Constitution, must that natural law was "dangerous" because it inter­fered with his views of "social justice." 
The danger of judicial ac­tivism and the correctness of the conservative position can only be clearly seen at a dis­tance, as is demonstrated by an infamous example of judicial activism. In Dred Scott, Chief Justice Roger Taney decided, among other things, that blacks were clearly inferior to whites and were unfit to be anything but slaves. Taney's decision was based not on the text of the Constitution or any law, but on Taney's personal vision of social justice. 
Today's judicial activists differ from Taney only in their political opinions. They fully agree with his vision of the role 

~ l ~ 
t 
l 
t 
L 
t 
I 
--------~-----­

April 2-4 

weeketxlcalenJar 

y 
MUSIC 

The Generics, campus band reunion,1 0 p.m., Bridget's. Damn Yankees w/ Jackyl, concert, 7:30 p.m., Star Plaza Theater, Radisson Hotel, $21. NO Collegiate Jazz Festival, 7:30p.m., Stepan Center, tickets available at LaFortune Student Center. 
EVENTS 

Jolly's Comedy Club, 10 p.m., Holiday Inn, Warsaw. 

MUSIC 

The Generics, campus band, 10 p.m.. Bridget's. NO Collegiate Jazz Festival, 11 :30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m., Stepan Center, tickets available at LaFortune. 
EVENTS 

Russell Simmon's DEF Comedy Jam, 7:30 and 10:30 p.m., Star Plaza, Radisson Hotel, $22. 
s 
y 
MUSIC 

Bluegrass and Gospel Concert, featuring the Lewis Family, 3 p.m., Peddler's Auction, Peddler's Village Road. 
EVENTS 

Men's volleyball vs. Michigan State Spartans, 2 p.m., 
J.A.C.C. Thunder Pit. Don Vogl exhlbltlon,art exhibit, Snite Museum, East Galleries I and II. 

es 
Cushing Auditorium Last of the Mohicans, Friday and Saturday, 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Snlte All the Mornings of the World, Friday, 7:30 and 9:45p.m. 
Unlv. Park Eaat Hear No Evil. 7:35 and 9:45. The Crying Game, 7:15 and 9:35 Mad Dog & Glory, 7:45 and 9:50p.m. A Few Good Men, 7 and 9:40 p.m. 
Unlv. Park West A Far Off Place, 7 and 9:30 p.m. Aladdin, 5:15p.m. Scent of a Woman, 8 p.m. Married to It, 7:15 and 9:45p.m. 
Catholic Worker House to hold fundraising hootenanny 
By MATT CARBONE Assistant Accent Editor 
Hootenanny, n. A gathering of folksingers with participa­tion, typically by the audience. 
This definition appears on fliers printed for the Holy Fam­ily Catholic Worker House of Hospitality. which will be hold­ing a hootenanny tomorrow to raise funds for the House. 
The Catholic Worker House is located in South Bend at 502 N. Notre Dame Avenue. Estab­lished in 1986, it provides tem­porary housing and food for families, usually single-parent, and single women -with a twist. 
The twist is that the House does much more than give transients a place to stay for a few months -it strives for last­ing social justice. 
"What sets us apart from a homeless shelter is that we are committed to nonviolence and simple living," said Jacquee Dickey, a volunteer at the House. "We have a more com­plete vision [than social service organizations]." . 
This complete vision is articu­lated in the goals of the House. In addition to providing food and shelter, these goals include "living in community with our guests following a simple lifestyle; accompanying guests 
Photo courtessy of Catholic Worker House 
in their struggle as they en­

Papa Joe Taschetta, travelling troubadour and folk singer, will perform
counter the bureaucracy of so­

at the Catholic Worker Houses hootenanny tomorrow night.

cial service agencies; and work­ing toward a just and lasting change in housing legislation for low-income families," ac­cording to Sister Suzanne Pat­terson, Holy Cross Sister and director of the House 
The House does many things in pursuit of these goals. In addition to providing each House guest (at present there are three families with a total five children, and two single women) with housing and food, the workers at the House, who are mostly volunteers, play with the children, accompany the guests as they work through the social services system and provide them with a sense of community while they get back on their feet. 


Everyone is welcome at the community meals, which take place on Thursdays at 6 p.m. 
Patterson also recently sat on a panel that discussed possible solutions to homelessness. 
Several Notre Dame students volunteer on a weekly basis, helping with the cooking, playing with the children and tutoring those who live in the House. 
"Their great service is atten­tion, affirmation and interest in the residents, said Patterson. "In return, students feel a connection [to the residents]. and see that the homeless are human, ordinary people." 
Allison McCarthy, community service commissioner for Walsh Hall, chose the Catholic Worker House as her dorm's service project. Every Monday, Walsh Hall volunteers go to the House to cook dinner and play with the children. 
"People really enjoy interact­ing with the people of the House," said McCarthy. "It's a good way to get involved in the community." 
Paul Pearl, a graduate stu­dent of sociology at ND and vol­unteer at the House, also wanted to get more involved in the community. "I was looking for a way to integrate my reli­gious beliefs, my support of disarmament and social jus­tice," said Pearl, who saw working at the House as a per­fect way to satisfy all of his wants. 
True to the ideals of the Catholic Worker movement (see sidebar), Pearl said that he is interested in getting into social justice work. "I would ulti­mately like to be an advocate for the poor and marginalized in society." 
Dickey is an "extended com­munity member" volunteer at the House -volunteers "that come to the House on a regular basis to help out, celebrate the liturgy, have dinner and do work for the House," said Dickey. 
In Dickey's case, this work is 
'Their great service is attention, affirmation and interest in the residents. Students feel a connection, and see that the homeless are human, ordinary people.' 
-Sr. Suzanne Patterson 
fundraising; she helped orga­nize the upcoming hootenanny. It will be performed by "Papa Joe" Taschetta, a travelling folksinger, originally from South Bend, who has been touring and performing for 27 years. 
Dickey met Taschetta several years ago when he was touring and performing in Iowa on be­half of the peace community and service organizations. 
"He will perform traditional folk songs, historically the way... the frustrations and struggles of American life have been recorded," said Dickey. "He will also play some silly songs for children that are kind of fun." 
The hootenanny will be begin tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. at the Unitarian Church, located at the corner of U.S. 31 and North Shore Drive, two blocks north of Memorial Hospital. Admis­sion is by donation, and items made by guests of the House will be given as door prizes. The show will end at approxi­mately 9 p.m. 
To receive more information about volunteering at the House, or about the community meal on Thursdays, call Sister Suzanne Patterson at 234-1196, or stop by the Center for Social Concerns . 


--------~~------~----------------~-~----~-~-~~~-~------~----~--------------~ 
a. 
Kim Basinger. 

b. 
Hall~ Berry. 

c. 
Madonna. 21. My favorite rap group is ... 

d. 
Michelle Pfeiffer. a. Public Enemy. 

e. 
Robin Givens. b. Naughty by Nature 

f. 
Bridget Fonda. c. Brand Nubian 

g. 
Sharon Stone. d. EPMD 

h. 
Cindy Crawford. e. Ghetto Boys 

i. 
Other______ 


f. Das EFX 

Send completed polls by g. Other maHto: The Observer. 314•.Hr·nrr,,mH 
10. The American man I most 
by April16. Results will be admire... 22. The following state a later edition. a. Bill Clinton. expresses my views on 
b. Jesse Jackson. tion:
statement 

c. Colin Powell. a. Abortion should be
IP~cnr"''"'"'" my views on corporal 
d. Michael Jordan. gal in all cases.
U'"uu•uaumut: 
... 
e. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. b. Abortion should be
a. Spanking is the best way has not changed in the past c. Clint Eastwood. 
f. Mike Pagliarulo. gal with some restrictions.
to discipline a child. four years. d. Kevin Costner. 
g. Magic Johnson. c. Abortion should be
b. Alternative punishment, e. Dustin Hoffman. 
h. Other______ 
gal in all cases.

other than spanking, is the best 5. When I have children, I f. Wesley Snipes. 
way to discipline a child. wilL.. g. Tom Cruise. 
11. The American woman I 23. The following statt~mtmtl
c. Alternative punishment, a. Encourage them to go to h. Other ______
most admire... expresses my views on thecoupled with occasional ND, but will let them go wher­
a. Ann Richards. virus:
spanking, is the best way to ever they want. 16. Under President Clinton,
b. Hillary Clinton. 
discipline a child. b. Give them no choice but Americans' standard of living ... a. It is divine !""'""·"'"'"'"•• 
c. Maya Angelou. against homosexuals whos
d. Spanking should never to go to ND. a. Will improve. 
d. Oprah Winfrey. behavior has hurt innocen
be used as a means to discipline c. Let them go wherever b. Will remain the same.
e. Sandra Day O'Connor. people.
a child. they want. c. Will deteriorate.
f. Carol Moseley-Braun. b. It is the result od. Encourage them not to 
g. Elizabeth Taylor. promiscuous homosexuals,
2. Do you agree with Hillary ND, but will let them go wher­17. My favorite music is ... 
h. Other______ 
sexuals or heterosexuals

ever they want. a. Rock. 
have introduced it into

e. Forbid them to go to ND. b. Heavy metal. 
12. My favorite soap opera at large.
c. Jazz.
is ... c. It is a disease that
6. The Los Angeles riots fol­d. Alternative 
a. "General Hospital." attack anyone regardless o
lowing the acquittal of four e. Blues.
b. "Days of Our Uves." race, gender, age
White officers in the videotaped f. Gospel.
c. "Another World." preference.
beating of motorist Rodney g. Classical.
d. "All My Children."
of my choice it would be... King... h. Reggae.
e. "Guiding Light." 24. Do you think hmnm;exualsl 
a. 
Atlanta. a. Were instrumental in g. Rhythm and blues.

f. "The Young and the should be allowed to serve

b. 
Chicago. focusing national attention on i. Pop.


Restless." the military?
c. Detroit. urban problems. j. Other______ 
g. "As the World Turns." a. Yes, with no 
rHSif"W-1

d. Los Angeles. b. Were destructive and a 
h. "The Bold and the tions.
e. New Orleans. setback for Blacks everywhere. 18. My favorite rock group
Beautiful." b. No, under any cir
f. 
New York. c. Were the calculated is ... 

i. "One Ufe to Live." cumstances.

g. 
San Francisco. work of troublemakers and op­a. R.E.M.

j. I watch no soap operas. c. Yes, with separ

h. 
Washington, D.C. portunists. b. 10,000 Maniacs. 


facilities for homosexuals

i. Other______ d. Were the inevitable re­c. The Cure. 
13. My favorite TV program heterosexuals.
sult of years of social neglect. d. Red Hot Chili Peppers. 
is ... d. Yes, but not in a com­
4. The following statement e. Pearl Jam. 
a. "Cheers." bat capacity.
expresses my personal fi­7. The best movie I saw last f. U2.
b. "Seinfeld." e. Yes, with both groups
ancial situation: year was... g. Other ______ 
c. "Roseanne." together, and a code of behav­a. I am better ofT now than a. "The Bodyguard." 
d. "Home Improvement." ioral conduct defined for
I was four years ago. b. "Aladdin." 19. My favorite female singer
e. "Northern Exposure." who serve in the military.
b. I am worse ofT now than c. "Malcolm X." is ... 
f. "Saturday Night Live." 
I was four years ago. d. "Scent of a Woman." a. Whitney Houston. 
g. "Murphy Brown." Edited by Matt Carbone 
c. My financial situation e. "The Crying Game." b. Madonna.
h. "Dinosaurs."
f. 
"A Few Good Men." c. Sinead O'Connor. 

i. "Homefront." 

g. 
"Unforgiven." d. Vanessa Williams. 

j. "Beverly Hills, 90210"

h. 
Other______ e. Bonnie Raitt. 


k. Other _____ f. Paula Abdul. 
8. The sexiest man in g. Natalie Cole. 
14. My favorite actress is ... 
America is ... h. Other ______ 
a. Meryl Streep. 
a. 
Denzel Washington. 


b. Kim Basinger.
b. 
Kevin Costner. 20. My favorite male singer

c. Halle Berry. 
c. 
Tom Cruise. is...

d. Michelle Pfeiffer. 
d. 
Wesley Snipes. a. Morrissey.

e. Susan Sarandon. 
e. 
Andy Garcia. b. Paul Simon. 

f. Marlee Matlin. 
f. 
Sean Connery. c. Michael Jackson. 

g. Julia Roberts. 
g. 
Nicholas Cage. d. Michael Bolton. 

h. Other______
h. 
Clint Eastwood. e. Billy Joel. 

i. 
Other______ f. Bruce Springsteen. 

15. My favorite actor is ... 
g. Garth Brooks. 
a. Denzel Washington. 
9. The sexiest woman in h. Prince.
b. Al Pacino. 
'Latin Expressions' showcases the hot talents of students 
By ELISABETH HEARD said Estevan Herrera, graduate participant in the show. "There individual culture, but remain stage a celebration of all Assistant Accent Editor student and participant in this are even African American proud of your own culture," Hispanic cultures. "The show is year's show. students involved in the skits." said Fred Gaona, a participant an awareness for ourselves," 
It's funny, it's entertaining and Latin Expressions is now in its Hispanics are the largest mi-in this year's show. said Herrera. full of music, dancing and fourth year. "We One of the The show also aims to laughter. It's Latin Expressions, got the idea goals of Latin educate the Notre Dame the talent show celebrating the from Black Expressions is to community about the talents Hispanic culture at Notre Dame. Images," said celebrate and and beauty of the Hispanic This year's theme is Caliente Herrera. "They learn about the culture. "We love to eliminate '93, and as the word translates. gave us a couple different cui-the stigmatism there is about it is hot. of ideas on how tures which lie being Hispanic," said Herrera. 
Tiempo Latino, the first cam­to make it underneath the "Ignorance is the primary cause pus band to play salsa and funny, enter-umbrella of the of racism, and we invite ND to merengue, will spice up the taining, as well words Latin learn about our culture. Even stage, and the Mariachi Notre as teaching." A m e r i c a n . though we seem like a Dame will have the audience's The show, "There are a lot homogeneous group, we are hearts singing. Ballet Folk-however, has of different really very diverse." 16rico will dazzle the eyes with developed a lot Hispanics, and I Latin Expressions will be pre­traditional Mexican dancing; since its begin-learned about formed April 2, in the Library Troop Notre Dame will also nings. "The the different Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Tick­perform. Besides the music and first show was types," said ets are $2 at the LaFortune dancing, there will be several preformed Veronica Information Desk, and $3 at the skits, including a performance strictly by us for Guzman, a door. After the show, there will 
by the GNP Posse, which are all us," ~.aid TheObserver/DaveHungeling participant in be a backstage reception. guaranteed to entertain as well "There are so many different
Her~era. Thestudents rehearse for 'Latin Expressions,' the upcoming talent show the show. "We 
as educate the audience about groups with so many
aeurdyienti"cgeht wanadscelebrating Hispanic Am_erican culture. have to have a
different aspects of Hispanic V factor that keeps differences, and the show life. very Hispanic. "Now it is nonty_ group on camp~s. and the unit together." brings everybody together," said "The point is to show ofT the encompassing more people," one thi~g t?at ma~es t~Is group Latin Expressions may be that Herrera. "That's what the show 
talent we have as a people," said Martfn Pulido, a so special Is the diversity of the factor as it brings together on is all about." culture. "We must respect 
____j 


Friday, April 2, 199page 12 
Rape is a tragic minefield 
Rape degrades and trauma­
blew the whistle on as date 'desperate, hollow voice' ho tizes victims rape, and decides it was since the age of 11, 'I countFather Robert Griffin mutual? the times I had a penis in 
Faithful reader, I'm probably Members of Take Back the that I haven't wanted and I h more surprised than you are Night insist that nobody should to stop at 594.'" this week at finding myself in ever back down from a claim of One speaker who got carri the middle of this mine field, Bellers loa Bone(y 9od sexual assault because confused away at a Take Back the Ni observing Sexual Awareness circumstances become clarified Talkathon at Princeton, r Week. For more than a year after a few days. "Women are peated her awful tale in t now, I've been troubled about Peter Heller in New York always doubted, so they mustn't college newspaper. She said, home from my boyfriend's
Notre Dame's alleged rape magazine, March 8, 1993. "In back down." you don't know how to react
apartment, where I had spent
cover-up. the past, women who said no to In case you're wondering, I next time you see me, give m
the night, and that I was still
To doubt anything that's been sex, particularly a weak no, don't condone sex outside mar­hug and tell me I'm
wearing a diaphragm. The
printed this week in The were often presumed to really riage, but I don't want to see brave."
sergeant asked her: 'Did you
Observer from the survivors of mean yes. It was sometimes an couples burned because one or On college campuses,
take off your panties and bra by
date-rape would be churlish element of seduction. the other didn't understand the word "survivor" now identi
yourself, or were they ripped
enough to place my salvation in Now militants make it clear ground rules they were playing anyone claiming to be sexm
otr? You took them off without a
danger. I think all those pieces that 'yes means yes, and by. assaulted. But society fro
struggle?' She told him: 'Officer, no 
are testimonials to pain which means no." But aren't there Rape is ugly, and degrades upon the word "victim" sinet
I took them off at the point of a 
show us profiles in courage. To occasions when two people the woman. How often does it does not convey the sense t
knife."'

question anything in them slide into sex without a yes or happen at Notre Dame? Crime the survivor of date rape mi
I have memories also of a
would be to put the survivors no? Is it right to say nothing reports from 2,400 campuses well have been killed.'' 
loser who spent ten years in the 
unfairly on trial; this reason and later add an accusation of across the country, according to In the Take Back the Ni
slammer after he was convicted 
most survivors of rape do not rape? New York magazine, show coalition, members who have 
at age 18 of raping the 
report the violence through fewer than 1,000 rapes dur­far escaped being survivors 
minister's daughter. "Were you
which they have lived. According to the women in­ing1990-less than half a rape termed "potential survivor
guilty?" I asked him. "I caught a
To the male chauvinist, those volved in Take Back the Night, per campus. The boyfriend or sibling
venereal disease from her," he
articles might appear to be bills "If a woman says she's been Specialists argue that the fig­survivors or potential surviv
said, "so to get even, I beat her
of indictment in which the mis­sexually assaulted, then she has ures are low because no crime is identified as a "co-surviv 
up. To get back at me, she 
ery index is high. In the words been." What if drinking has is harder to summon the When I saw those pieces sig1
hollered rape." I knew the fel­
of a man studying to become a muddled things? 'If a woman courage to report. Ms-magazine simply, "A Survivor"
low could be lying, though we
Philadelphia lawyer: "We're has been drinking, then she found that more than one in Monday's Observer, I wonde 
were personal enough for him
looking at sexual politics. How cannot give consent to having four college-aged women have who those women had be
to realize that he didn't have to. 
can the males of the campus sex,' said a member of Take been the victims of rape or talking to. 
Those ten years he served ru­
defend themselves against the Back the Night. attempted rape. Amidst the politicized fu
ined his life. The story, whether 
weepy stories in which anony­Peter Hellman concludes, "A Seventy-three percent of the over rape on campus, says
true or not, left me sympathetic
mous women give their dis­man has little chance of proving respondents classified as having New York magazine piece, "I
with the falsely accused, Ten
torted accounts of what hap­he isn't a rapist." Date rape been raped didn't classify easy to lose sight of the dam· 
years seems like a big chunk of
pened on a date? militants at Columbia have been themselves as victims of rape. done by the reality of sex
time to take away from a man.
The young women have all accused of "criminalizing Forty-two percent of the victims assault. ...The world is ne
The way I feel about date 
my sympathy. All I have ever collegial male lust." said they had sex with their the same for the survivor ...Sh 
rape is that there can never be
wished for any of our students Revisionist thinking on sexual attacker again. especially vulnerable beca
too much light shed on the un­
is that they be lucky enough to intimacy could backfire on ei­Peter Heller describes the she's left home and is out th
derstanding of what it involves. 
grow up free of regrets. I have Last fall, a ther partner, I should think. public speeches in which in the world .. And then t
small poster ap­
memories of weeping with a Making love to a girl in an act women from Take Back the happens. It's so devastating,
peared in the dorms that said:
survivor who was raped at the she may later declare date personal Night disclose their traumatizing..
IF SHE SAYS NO, IT'S RAPE.
point of a knife. rape, could make a lad's morn­personal suffering as an exer­And now will someone pie
These simplistic lines could take 
She said, "The officers obvi­ing-after somewhat bittersweet. cise in "can you top this' vic­help me off this minefield,
the danger out of intimacy.
ously thought I was a slut after What about the young lassie timhood. fore I really say something
But recently, I read an article
they heard I was on the way who re-thinks the act which she One woman told in a blow myself up? 
on date rape at Columbia, by 
Thomism 

at Notre Dame • Fall, 1993 
The philosophy department at Notre Dame is nationally ranked and world class. Among other things, it has, over the years, been noted for its contributions to interpreting and teaching the thought of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
It is not often clear what courses among the many excellent offerings in philosophy are designed to serve that interest. A brochure providing descriptions of the Fall courses which are Thomistic in inspiration has been mailed to Freshmen and Sophomores. 
Ifyou have not received the brochure, ask for one at either the Philosophy Department, 337 O'Schaughnessy or the Jacques Maritain Center, 714 Hesburgh Library. 


Friday, April 2, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Pirates slam White Sox;Tigers blank Cards; Braves win 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at ltle Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classijieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
lassifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character par day. including all spaces. 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Need ride to SC over Easter, system, all appliances, a must see! NEAR LAKE PLACID preferably Charleston. Will share $650/mth call 232 8256 000 THE COPY SHOP 000
TICKETS
CALL 1-800-786-8373. expenses. Call Lisa x2576 in LaFortune Student Center 
Female '92 grad looking for QUALITY COPIES CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -I need a ride for Easter break roommate(s) in Chgo area.Prefer Please, Please, Please!!ll as low as 3¢ each Eam $2,000+/month + world travel to or near Whitefish Bay, WI. Will western suburbs.Open to ideas. I need two commencement OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK (Hawaii, Mexico, ltle Caribbean, leave Thursday nightor Friday Monica 706-961-3533 wk: 708-tix I Call Jennifer@ 277-5972 etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career morning, return Monday. Will pay for 850-4333 PEACEFEST IS COMING IIIII employment available. No gas. Call Katie at 3738. I have a huge family & they all PEACEFEST IS COMING IIIII experience necessary. For SUMMER SUBLEASE: 2 bdrm apt. helped pay for NO. Please! I need APRIL 7TH employment program call Need ride to U OF MISSOURI for *cheap* safe, walk dist,clean. 273 extra grad tix!! Deanna @2476 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. Easter! Call Allison X4758 9689 LOOK FOR MORE INFO ........ . PLEASE!II 1 dbrm subleased apt, May 20-Aug. IMMEDIATE occupancy , Need Grad Tix clip-n-save 
20. Chris (217) 581-2812. FOR RENT •1 bdrm apt. incl. walk thru bath Brian 273.0967 
and closet, garage, washer SUMMER JOBS * ALASKA -Earn Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom and dryer. 273-9392 $6000 this summer! THE House now for 93-94 school PERSONAL COLL,JEN, SABOL, RILEY-0­INSIDER'S GUIDE ALASKA JOB year 234-1886 SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM RAMA: SEARCH New how-to book by HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal You thought it would never come, experienced slimer, only $12. Four bedroom furnished Oakhill GREAT RATES! AVAIL. Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological but it's here! The FINAL DORM Chick/money order payable to Condo open for summer rental. NOW, SUMMER & FALL.272-6306 Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN FORMAL of your ND career. There 
A.A.A.A. P.O. Box 31 Merion, PA Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. better be stellar performances by all 19066 or call 803-252-0544 Why @ 614-237-1370 for info. Furnished four bedroom OAKHILL participants! pay $40? CONDO for summer rental. Call BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Hey coli, only 6 weeks left of your 
SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 Amy or Doug at614-237-1370 for NEEDS REFEREES college career. (sniffle, sniffle) Need a ride to Norfolk, VA bdrms, close to campus, safe info. don't get sentimental, LIVE IT UP. area for Easter break. Will help pay neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all DO YOU HAVE THE GUTS TO for gas. utilities. Call Monica MAKE SOME EASY MONEY???? Hey JEN, have I mentioned that Call Christina at x4241 232-2794. FOR SALE Tony's coming to town this 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED weekend? French high school student, 16, is Oakhill Condo For Rent! 2BR loft, PLEASE CALL PATRICK looking for an exchange familly for 28th, fireplace, W/0, garage, 1yr ALLSTATE COLEMAN AT 289-2683 Dave Tomasula(however you spell this summer. Interested ? Call 271-lease. Call Caroline or Bill at317-your queer name) , 8621 297-8465 CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL come on Dave, drink it, drink, drink, 
QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE drink, drink, drink you wimp DRINK! If anyone is planning on working in Summer Lease COST-CUITING DISCOUNTS: HEY TEASE BOY-I LIKE YOU I Hilton Head this summer and needs Castle Point MAITERHORN THANK YOU FOR A WONDERFUL Some final words: roommates to help pay for rent, call Call R.J. or John . GOOD STUDENT WEEKEND. BY THE WAY, YOU'RE NAKED, NAKED, NAKED Kelly @4121. 271-2908 . PREFERRED DRIVER NICE 
. ECONOMY CAR M.B.S.! LOVE, TEASEGIRL to SUBLEASE your house/apt. for NO Apts now signing leases at a AIR BAG P.S. "I'D DIE WITHOUT YOU" SUMMER:3-5 people,pref. near very comfortable rate. Can't beat ANTI-LOCK BRAKES clip-n-save campus-call Samx4842 the location or the price BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Call us 232-8256 JOHN DAVENPORT,ChFC BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Rich, Driver needed in May to Hartford 289-1993 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL WHY DO YOU PUT UP WITH ME? CT area, our car, expenses paid, 3 BDRM. HOUSE, FULL BOOK need referees BALL Love, 
!
insured. Call Mr. Bishop 1-324-4898 BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS. OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS BOOK make $$$$ BALL me FROM ND. 234-1663. BOOK call 269-2683 BALL LOST my keychain SUMMER JOB 65 Volks Vanagon Van 1 03,000 BOOK if interested BALL HEY, THE WEATHER'S COLD 1tome1Nhe,re on campus Sunday Paint OUTSIDE with 2 BDRM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL miles, most highway, blue w/grey BOOK do it soon as BALL AND BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
l
It is a silver hook key chain other STUDENTS CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL pinstripe, new battery, good tires. BOOK demand is high BALL HAS STARTED 2 GM keys, 3 dorm keys, and a Eam $6-8/ HOUR YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277-3500 or best offer 289-2353. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL AGAIN -SO GET YOUR I found call 4-2934. Cleveland-Toledo area 4155. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL EARMUFFS, HOT CHOC. AND 
I 
info: John@ One-way plane ticket from UMBRELLAS OUT AND CHEER 271-2906 BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES Chicago to L.A. 5/7 $150. Adoption: Doctor and teacher will ON YOUR FAVORITE TEAM 
I 
Pair of gold clip-on earrings FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. Call Jane 634-4994. make dreams for your baby come GREAT GAMES ARE BEING Zahm and St. Mary's Lake Helpl Two fun travelers 219-291-7153. true. Full-time parenting. Best of the PLAYED NOW SO GET OUT (by the boathouse) on Friday need ride to U of Mich **** SNOW SKIS **** city; summers by the beach; your THERE!!! this Sat. for Hash Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2 **** SNOW SKIS **** baby rocked to sleep by a cozy 
ask ... ). ALSO: I left my Bash weekend! Call baths. Located College Park 205 em Volkl Rentigers (GS) fireplace in winter, and by ocean *****Anne Niebler & Co...... mug in the upstairs bathroom Kara x2461. Will help with Condos. Comer of Bulla & w/ Marker M48 Bindings. waves in summer. Art, music, the Rock. It's grey with a blue gas, tolls. Ironwood. Must be responsible Perfect Condition. $350 or best education, endless love. Call Blumpies are fun 
it's got my name on the tenat $595 per mo or Sale &65,900. best offer. Call KJ @ 273-2958 Franny or Stephen collect. 
Both are VERY important! I Send info to PO Box 4075 South (212)369-2597. Blumpies are nice PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA Bend IN 46634. HIRING DRIVERS PART TIME ND junior's sister & brother-in-law Blumpies are never the same THROUGH FINALS WEEK 3-5 PERSON FURNISHED Big Red Cadillac recently lost 2 infants to genetic thing twice Ill VERY FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM, 79 DeVille,425V8,PS,PB,PW, disorders. They would like to adopt AVERAGES $Bihr and up WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL, New tires,shocks. Runs a child. Large family w/lots of love. Love, the one who gets Call 271-11 n or stop by 54533 PRIME LOCATION. great, reliable. $900 or best. If you can help or know one who swirlies from her section Terrace Lane 233-9947. 288-1 027 Tom can, please call x3314 or (517)531­I 3219 collect 
5 br. house, great condition, security 
BRADENTON, Fla. (AP)­Kevin Young hit a grand slam Jack McDowell, leading the Pirates to an 8-3 Thursday over the --·""""''u White Sox. 
The homer by Young, a rookie baseman, capped a five­third inning that gave the 
a 6-3 lead. Another left fielder AI Martin, led the inning with a homer. McDowell (4-1) allowed seven and six runs in five innings striking out three and three. He will pitch the opener Tuesday in 
Tigers 7, Cardinals 0 
LAKELAND. Fla. -Detroit's Rob Deer, who all winter at putting the in play more, hit two -giving him eight for spring. Bolton (1-3), one of three e-agent pitchers the Tigers up during the offseason, his final tuneup for the season by scattering hits over the ftrst five 
Donovan Osborne (1-2) was tagged for seven runs on 13 hits over the first 5 2-3 innings for St. Louis. 
Braves 11, Dodgers 0 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. ­Sid Bream had a grand slam and Ron Gant a solo homer and four RBis, for Atlanta. 
The Braves got 16 hits, including 10 and six runs off Ramon Martinez in six innings. Bream's homer over the left field fence came off Martinez in the seventh. 
Todd Worrell started for Los Angeles and pitched the first inning, allowing three hits and a pair of runs on Gant's sacrifice fly and a run-scoring single by David Justice. Gant added his second homer of the spring in the fifth inning and doubled in two more in the eighth off Roger McDowell. 
Phillies 7, Twins 6 
CLEARWATER, Fla. -Curt 
Schilling allowed one earned 
run in five innings, and Darren 
Daulton had his fifth homer for 
Philadelphia. 
Schilling, scheduled to start 
Tuesday night against Houston, 
had given up eight runs in six 
innings during his two previous 
outings. The right-hander gave 
up three runs on eight hits, 
struck out three and walked one. 
Jim Eisenreich had three hits for Philadelphia. Daulton, Milt Thompson and Juan Bell had two hits apiece. Kent Hrbek led Minnesota with three singles. 
Yankees 9, Expos 4 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. ­Don Mattingly's grand slam capped a five-run fourth inning, and New York pounded out 13 hits. 
Mattingly, 3 for 3, homered off Tim Fortugno after singling in the opening inning and again in a three-run third against Dennis Martinez. He was allowed three runs on six hits in three innings. 
Sam Militello ( 4-1) allowed run-scoring singles by Marquis Grissom and Wil Cordero before settling down to pitch four scoreless innings thereafter. 
Marlins 8, Indians 7 
COCOA, Fla. -Florida 
Marlins closer Bryan Harvey, 
continuing a comeback from 
elbow surgery, earned his first 
save of the spring in a victory 
over Cleveland. 
Harvey came on in the ninth 
inning, gave up a single and a 
wild pitch, then retired the next 
three hitters with the tying run 
at second base. His fastball was 
clocked in the 95 mph range. 
In 7 2-3 innings this spring, 
Harvey has allowed just four 
· hits and two runs with nine strikeouts. He led the American League with 46 saves for the California Angels in 1991. then missed much of last season because of a strained elbow that required surgery in August. 
Red Sox 7, Rangers 6 
PORT CHARLOTTE, Fla.­Andre Dawson singled home Mike Greenwell with the go­ahead run in the lOth inning and Boston beat Texas. 
Greenwell singled and took second on Roger Pavlik's wild pitch before Dawson's single. Dawson and Greenwell each had three hits. 
Mets 3, Astros 2 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -Joe Orsulak hit a two-run homer in the lOth inning and the Mets beat Houston in New York's fmal Florida game of the spring. 
Mets starter Bret Saberhagen pitched seven scoreless inning in the final tuneup for his start against Colorado on Wednesday. He allowed seven hits. struck out two and walked one. 
Mariners 12, Brewers 5 
CHANDLER, Ariz. -Graeme Lloyd, trying to become the ftrst Australian pitcher in the big leagues, was pounded for five consecutive run-scoring hits in a seven-run ninth inning as the Seattle Mariners routed Milwaukee. 
Bill Wegman, who had given up only four runs in 22 innings this spring, allowed four in 5 2­3 innings in his fmal tuneup for an opening day start against the California Angels. He had won his previous 10 spring training decisions since 1989. 
Blue Jays 10, Orioles 9 
DUNEDIN, Fla. -John Olerud went 5-for-5 and ended Fernando Valenzuela's streak at 15 scoreless innings, and Turner Ward hit a three-run homer in the ninth that lifted the Toronto Blue Jays over Baltimore. 
Valenzuela, told a day earlier that he had made the opening day roster, gave up five runs on seven hits in three innings. He had not allowed a run this spring until Olerud led off the second inning with a home run. 
Blue Jays starter Jack Morris 
gave up three runs on six hits in 
five innings, and left with a 5-3 
lead. 
Rockies 5, Cubs 0 
MESA, Ariz. (AP) -Joe Girardi went 3-for-4 with a double and triple against his former team, leading the Colorado Rockies over Chicago 5-0 in the final Arizona exhibition for both teams. 

,. 0 : ·: ·: :: :: : :. :: :: :: : • 0 .....
~ 

="' ,,. ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ (' ... ~ ' 
C) ~ ) ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . ' ' " flt c:> 
....._. ~\~ • • :: • : :: ••• : : : : :: : : • •• : : " -4.. •••·' .,, ~ 
..... ..... ..... . .............. ...... .. ....... 
NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS NCAA 
Thuredey'e Sporta Tr•n..ctlone Continent•! B..ketb•ll A..ocl•tlon WALES CONFERENCE BASEBALL OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Acquired the 
NCAA Hockey Tournament Patrick Dlvlalon Amerlc•n L..gue rights to Frank Johnson, guard, from the Fargo· AI A Glance w L T Pill GF GA CHICAGO WHITE SOX-()ptioned Ramon Moorhead fever to complete the Jay Taylor trade. 

EAST REGIONAL21 6 108 333 248

x-Pittsburg> 51 Garcia and Brian Drahman, pitchers, to Nashville RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Named Troy Firat Round Wuhlngton 38 30 7 85 304 266 of the American Association. Mills director of public relations. 
(Single elimination)New Jersey 38 33 8 82 282 269 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Placed Bob FOOTBALL 
AI. Woroester, Mass. 

33 8 78 302 266
NY lslandera 38 OJeda, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled nat National Football L•ague Friday, March 26 NY Rangera 33 31 11 77 2&4 274 DETROIT TIGERS--Placed Bill Gullickson, BUFFALO BILLS-Signed Billy Brooks, Nor1hern Michigan 3, Harvard 2, Harvard Phlledelplhla 28 37 11 87 284 304 pitcher, on the 15-dey disabled 1181, retroectlve to wide recel-, to a three-year contract. 
eliminated 

Adam a Dhrlalon March 31. Optioned Rich Rowland, catcher, and GREEN BAY PACKERs-Traded VInnie Minnesota 2, Ciarkoon 1, Clarkson y-Montreal 48 26 6 98 314 260 Shawn Hare, outfielder, to Toledo of the Cieri<, cornerback, to the Atlanta Falcone for an eliminated y·Ouebec 44 24 10 98 330 278 International League. undisclosed draft choice. Waived Harvey Salem, 
Ouarterflnale y-Boston 44 28 7 95 300 258 MILWAUKEE BREWERS--Placed Teddy offensive tackle. Saturday, March 27 
y-Buffalo 38 2g 10 88 320 269 Higuera and Angel Miranda. pltchera; Bill Doran, MIAMI DOLPHINs-Acquired Irving Fryar, Boston Unlversny 4, Northern Michigan 1, Hertford 22 48 5 49 249 339 Infielder, and Dave Nilsson, catcher, on the 15-day wide receiver, from the New England Patriots for N. Michigan allmlnated Ottawa 8 64 4 22 187 362 disabled list M<Xe draft choloea, and signed him to three one-Maine 6, Mlnneaota 2, Minnesota CAMPBELL CONFERENCE TEXAS RANGER~ K8VIn Brown, yew contracts. 
eliminated Norrie Dlvlalon pitcher, on the 15..-y clubled 1'-1 r*OIIcllw to Canadian Football L••gue 
WEST REGIONAL w L T Pill GF GA March 27. OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Mike 

Firat Round y·Chlcago 42 24 10 94 254 208 National Le•gue Graybill, offensive tsckla. 
At Oetron y-Oetron 42 28 8 93 341 269 NL-Named Wally Bell, Brian Gorman, HOCKEY 
friday, March 26 y-Toronto 41 Angel Hwnandez, Jeff Kellogg, Larry Ponclno and National Hockey League
25 11 93 278 222 Wisconsin 3, Miami, Ohio 1, Miami, Ohio SL Loulo 35 33 8 78 258 258 Larry V&nOVfJ( to the umpiring staff. NEW YORK ISLANDERs-Agreed to Ierma 
ellmlnated MI11MSola 33 ATLANTA BRAVES-Released Wally with Dennis Vaske, defenseman.
34 10 76 253 271 
Minnesota-Duluth 7, Brown 3, Brown Tampa Bay 22 50 5 49 225 299 Backman, Infielder, from a minor-league contract. OLYMPICS eliminated Smythe Dlvlalon Sent Jerry Willard, catcher, to their mlnor~eague USA BASKETBALL-Named Vince Goo, 
Ouarlerflnola9 91 315 248

y-Vancouver 41 27 camp for reassignment. Waived Keith Mitchell, Jane Albright and Dianne Nolan assistant Saturday, March 27 y-Calgary 37 29 10 84 285 259 outfielder. women's coechea lor the World Unlversn Games, 
Michigan 4, Wisconsin 3, OT, Wloconaln y·Los Angelas 37 32 83 CHICAGO CUBS--f'urcheaed the contract
9 320 318 35 7 77 287 294 and Nancy Darsch and Marianne Stanley ellmlnated 
y-Winnlpeg 35 of Jose Bautista, pitcher, from Iowa of the Lake Superior State 4, Mlmesota-Ouluth
44 8 60 225 307 assistant women'• coacheo for the World
Edmonton 28 American Association. Announced that Dave 
3, Minnesota-Duluth eliminated San Jose 10 85 2 22 197 Smith, pitcher, will remain In Mesa, Ariz., for
384 Championship qualnylng team. 
USOC-Announced the the Field Hockeyx-cUnched dlvlalon tiUe extended spring training. 
FINAL FOUR y-cllnched playoff berth CINCINNATI REDS-Sent Brian Dorsett, 
Association of America will merge with the United 
At Milwaukee catcher, to their minor-league camp for States Aeld Hockey Association to become the Semiflnalanational governing body.
reassignment. 
Thursday, April 1COLLEGE

NL STANDINGS AL STANDINGS 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Sent Geronimo 
Maine 4, Michigan 3, OT Barros, outfielder; Bob Natal, catcher; Chuck 
AUSTIN PEAY-Named Vic Shealy 
Lake Superior State 6, Boston University NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE Jackson and Gus Polldor, lnfieldera; and Jerry Don 1 defensive backfield coach; David Armstrong 
quarterbacks·fullbacks coach; Andre Haley
w L Pel w L Pel Gleaton, pitcher, to Edmonton of the Pacific Coest Champlonohlp
assistant head coach; and Ed Smnlth recruiting
Clnclmatl 18 7 .720 New York 20 10 .667 League. Placed Jim Corsi, pncher, on the 15-day Saturday, April 3
coordinator. Reassigned Sam Mccorkle, offensive 
Phlledeiplhla 16 6 .665 Baltimore 15 9 .625 disabled list Sent Stan Spencer, pitcher, outright coach, to defensive coordinator. Maine (39-1-2) vs. Lake Superior Stele
backfield 
Atlanta 15 11 • 577 .571 to High Desert of the California League. (28·7·5), 8:05p.m . 
MI11MSola 16 12 
Announced the resignation of Ben Treloar,Colorado 17 13 .587 Chicago 17 13 .587 NEW YORK METS-Released Scott offensive line coach. 
Chicago 18 14 .533 Milwaukee 15 13 .538 Bracley, catcher, from a minor-league contract. 
LOYOLA, ILL-Fired Marty Hawkins,Montreal 12 11 .522 14 .517 PHILADELPHIA PHILUES-Piacad Jose
Texas 15 women'• basketball coach. 

Houston 13 .520 14 .484 DeJesus, pitcher, on the 15-dey disabled
12 Oakland 15 list. 
DAYTON-Signed Mike Kelly, football Pntsbllgh 14 13 .5111 Callfornla 13 14 .481 Optioned Pat Combo and Paul Aetcher, pltchera; coach, to a three-year contract. 
Los Angeles 12 13 .480 Seattle 13 14 .481 Doug Lindsey, catcher; and Ruben Amaro, 
EVANSVILLE-Announced Parrish 
Florida 13 15 .484 Cleveland 10 13 .435 outfielder, to Scranton-WIIkea·Barre of the Casebier, forward, will forego hlo last year of New York 12 14 .462 Toronto 10 17 .370 International League. Sent Jeff Manto and VIc eligibility and enter the NB draftSan Diego 12 14 .482 Boaton 10 19 .357 Rodriguez, Infielders, to their mlnor~eague camp 
DIPPING

LONG BEACH STATE-Signed Seth
for reassignment. Announced that Scott Terry,
San Franclaoo 12 18 .4211 Karwas City 10 16 .357 
Greenberg, men'o basketball coech, to a five-year
pitcher, will remain In Clearwater, Fla., for
St Loulo 10 15 .400 Oatroll 7 20 .2511 
contract.
extended spring training. 
Thuraday'a Oam.. 

frlday'o Games MIAMI-Named Al.ex Vergara director of
PITISBURGH PIRATES-Placed Zane
PltbblXgh 6, Chicago Whlta Sox 3 merl<eting.
t'ortland vs. Mlmasota at For1 Myers, Fla., 12:05 p.m. Smith, pitcher, on the 15-dey disabled list. 
Atlanta 11, Los Angeles (sa) 0 

MURRAY STATE-Announced the
St Loulo VI. Toronto at Dunedin, AL, 12:05 p.m. BASKETBALL 
IS FOR
Florlde 8, Cleveland 7 resignation of Kelly Breazeale, women'oOatron VI. Clnclmatl at Plant City, Aa., 12:05 p.m. National Baaketball A..oclatlonNew York Y ankeee 9, Montree! 4 

basketball coech. Phlledelplhla 7, Mlnoeaota 8 
GOLDEN STATE WARRIORs-Signed 
SAN FRANCISCO-Named Karin 
Datron 1, St. L.oulo o Boeton VI. Philadelphia at Clearwater, AL, 1:05 p.m. Andre Spencer, forward, to a second 1 O·day Wallenstein women's volleyball coach.
Atianta vs. Montreal Ill Weal Palm Beach, AL, 1 :05 contract.
New York Meta 3, Houston 2, 1 0 lmlngo WESTERN NEW MEXICO-Named Jasonp.m.
Toronto 10, Baltimore II Raid women's basketball coach. 

DIPS!
New York Yank-VI. New York Mats Ill Boston 7, TIIXIIS 8, 10 lminga Washington, 1 :40 p.m. 
SeatUe 12, Milwaukee 5 MllwiiiJ<ee vs. SeetHe Ill Las Vegas, 2:05 p.m. 

Colorado 5, Chicago Cubs 0 Colorado vs. Colorado (AAA) at Tucson, Ariz., 3:05Clnclnneti 8, Karwas City 3 

Live 
Jazz & Blues 
Every Saturday night at 
§UBi:S 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE -DPEN SUNDAYS-
downtown South Bend 

Stop in for Dinner Stay For Music 
Check out the great bands coming to Gubi's this month: 
Sat., Aprii3-Moonstruck 
. ~s~GTON Coo. 
Sat., Aprill Q-Bull Dog Blues Band Sat., Aprii17-JP Fish and the Peppertones 
V~ Cal/255-7777 ~/> 
Sat., April 24-Priscilla Phillips Band 
Do you have the summer time 
All at

school blues?? Come live at Remington Court during· summer school, and relax in luxury between GUBi~
~'TAURANT & LOUNGE 
-DPEN SUNDAYS-

classes. We have junior one bedrooms that will give the privacy 
plus

ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to rela.X. We Best BBQ Ribs in town have models open daily-come out Check out our 8-inch super burger 
and take a look! 127 N. Main South Bend
Located on Main Street between 
288-5565

McKinley and Edisoh 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------~-------------..... 
Friday, April 2, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Irish down Andrews; await MSU 

By KEVIN DOLAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's volleyball team tuned up for a big week­end last night with a lively scrimmage against Andrews University (Michigan) in the Thunderpit of the Joyce A.C.C. 
Andrews was filling in for the University of Toledo, who was unable to field a team and can­celled. 
Although the Irish were ex­pecting a pickup team, An­drews proved to be more than solid. However, the Irish still bested them in four straight games (15-3, 15-13, 15-7, 15­8). . 
Game 1 was all Irish, as Brian Ceponis was having his way with Andrews, blocking or spiking nearly every ball that came his way. The Irish ran off a 9-0 lead before cruising to a 15-3 win. 
Former Irish head coach Kim Reefer was the guest coach last night, filling in for Jen Slosar, who had an exam. 
One move Reefer made was to insert Tim Regan and Matt Limtiaco, two freshmen who have seen limited playing time. Regan responded with his best performance of the season, blocking balls like a seasoned veteran. Limtiaco's perfor­mance at setter was also solid. 
In the second game, the Irish appeared to be asleep early on, falling behind 9-5. Poor hitting and mental errors combined to put the Irish in that hole, but they rallied behind a monster Regan spike and a well-placed tip by freshman outside hitter Bill Raney to take an 11-10 lead. 
Raney and Regan would con­tinue to pace the Irish, but the remainder of Game 2 was a struggle for the Irish, their winning point coming on a ball that just seemed to fall to the floor for the 15-13 win. 
The Irish returned to form in Game 3 behind the urging of assistant coach Dan Ka­vanaugh, who donned a jersey to fill in at setter for Won Suh. Kavanaugh had a tip and an ace as the Irish jumped out again, going up 6-0. 
Ceponis and Regan were the bright spots for the Irish in Game 3, and Pat Madden be­gan to come on late, serving up a kill and two blocks while un­veiling his jump-serve, a rare treat for the Irish faithful and an indication of how seriously the Irish were taking the match. 
The Irish frivolity continued into the fourth game. Ka­vanaugh set up Madden with a beautiful pass, and Madden promptly smashed it off the head of Matt Strottman, who was refereeing the match. 
Strottman, who nearly swal­
r----------------, 
:American Cab Co.: 
I 1 "Frequent Rider Card" I 1 I Ride 10 times and receive $3.00 off 11111 ride I 
1 "We appreciate your business!IJ 1 
I Call ahead for prearranged pick-up I I I 
L----------------~ 

IN CONCERT 
Tuesday, April 20 • 8:00pm central Time 
Valparaiso University Athletics Recreation Center Valparaiso, IN 
Their Album "Rites Of Passage" was up for 1993 Grammy -Best Vocal 
Admission Prices: $20.50, $17.50, and $15.50 
Ticket Outlets: Ticketmaster, Carson Pirie Scott and Valparaiso University 
For More Information Call: (219) 464-5233 or (219) 464-5230 or Ticketmaster: (219) 272-7979 
Valparaiso University is conveniently located off US 30! Only 1 hour southeast of Chicago • Only 1 112 hours from Chicago's west suburbs Only 45 miles from South Bend 
lowed his whistle on the "play," threatened to eject his team­mate as the rest of the team doubled over with laughter. 
Despite this recent mishap. Strottman said that his knee is "a little sore yet, but OK for the weekend. Strottman was also hobbled over the weekend by bronchitis, which forced him to miss large portions of the MIVA tourney. 
The Irish will be all business this weekend as they travel to Michigan Saturday night, then return to face Michigan State at home at 2:00 p.m. in the Thunderpit. 
The Irish have been waiting for a rematch with the Spar­tans since the preseason, when they fell in four games at the Pit. According to Ceponis, the Irish are up to the challenge. 
"They're a tough team, but 
.-"­
we can defmitely beat them." 
The Spartans are currently ranked third in the Midwest, while the Irish are ranked fifth. To win this match, Slosar felt that "passing and blocking would be the keys to the match." 
"If we do those little things, we'll be right up there with them." 
The Spartans, coached by Sante Pirelli, bring a winning tradition and two of the best outside hitters the Irish have 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

faced in Josh Slodki and 
The Notre Dame men's volleyball team handily defeated Andrews last
Audley Becker. They also bring 
night in the JACC Pit.
a confidence that borders on cockiness, something that Pat "We have Nationals yet... Madden and the rest of the that would be the real prize." Irish would like to damage. However, Sunday's match is 
"It's a rivalry," said Madden. the last at home for Madden, "They're always cocky when Leo Casas, Chris Murdy and they play us, so we'd really like Kavanaugh. The Irish, to beat them." currently ranked #21 in the 
Asked if it would be the most nation, need support this satisfying victory of the season, Sunday. Madden was cautious. 
S3.501--......
~t:;VTT§IYXlt: . ­
All Shows -
Scotlsdolo Moll • 

UfHAGf MUJAHJI 
NINJA JURJUS' 
Fri: 5:00, 7:00. 9:15 IPel Sat/Sun: 12;30, 2:45,5:00,7:00.9:15 
291-4583 Belorellpm ~~ 
THE·ADVENTURES-: aF 
HUCI<FINN 
IPGJ 
Fri: 4:30, 7:15, 9:30 Sat/Sun: 12:00, 2:15, 4:30. 7:15, 9:30 
All ShoWI ..,..___"'lo.
Tvw~ & Cvu~i~l' S3.50 
2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259·9090 l!nlorelpm 
Groundhog Day 
HoRNfumiDAy
Fri: 4:45, 7:15. 9:45 ,,;:;;;:;, 

Sat/Sun: 2:00. 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 rffir 
starring 
%~» ~~"'-:'> ' 0' v~<"'J 
, A,,...r • MELANIE
POINT OF 
+'¥"" ' Gmmrn 
tPGJ
NO R£TURN ~ 
Fri: 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 Fri: 4:30. 7:00. 9:30 
No ?~~~1~:'f~~~. April3.
Sat/Sun: 1 :45. 4:30. 7:00, 9:30 

SM>kpreview o{Thc Sandlo< (PG) 
I 
~ 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 
257 .-1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273 --2EAT 
$2 off any pizza with Student ID 
April is also a conservation month. Every month should be a month to conserve our resources. Be sure to make neighbors aware of their power use. 


Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 

----------------~---~­page 16 The Observer Frida~April2, 1993 
Light weekend for Irish tennis teams 
NCAA rule cancels men's match 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
You know things must be going your way when bad news is actually good news. 
Men's tennis coach Bob Bayliss was forced to cancel this weekend's match at West Virginia to stay under the NCAA limit for matches. The Irish played one more match than expected at the Blue-Gray Oassic, as they won all four matches and captured the championship. 
Though the cancellation of a match is usually associated with bad luck, both Notre Dame and West Virginia were rather happy to postpone their match until next season. 
"They have a couple of injuries and were facing a tough time," said BaylL'is, "So we determined it would be in both team's best interests to reschedule." 
The Irish players especially welcomed the cancellation after playing in the maximum amount of matches allowed in a season with many of them at such remote sights as Montgomery, Ala., Baton Rouge, La., and Austin, Tex.. 
"We've been on the road so long," cracked Bayliss, "That I think they could fllm a remake of "The Road Warriors" starring the men's tennis team instead of Mel Gibson." 
The players were given Monday and Tuesday off after getting in from Sunday's match at Louisiana State well after midnight. 
"They've definitely earned it," noted Bayliss. 
In addition to the rest the road­weary Irish will get, the extra time off will also allow Bayliss and assistant coach J.P. Weber to experiment with different combinations of their doubles teams, hoping to find the right chemistry before the NCAAs in May. 
"We will be working on doubles and also begin to work on conditioning," stated Bayliss. "We really need to do some additional things, including getting back to the basics and beginning to emphasize conditioning." 
The Irish will be back in action on Wednesday against the Michigan Wolverines, which will mark the la.'it home match for the Irish's five seniors. Will Forsyth, Chuck Coleman, Mark Schmidt, Hon Hosa.'>, and Chris Wojtalik will all look to end their home careers in style at 3:15 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
REDBUD 
Fine Art Workshops 
2 week -3 credit courses in: 
ACTING CERAMICS PHOTOGRAPHY PRINTMAKING SCULPTURE 
May 17-29, 1993 

Sponsored by the Art Dept. of Saint Mary's College 
For information or Application call: 

284-4655 or 284-4631 
Women looking for 7th vs. A & M 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 

If the 23rd-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team is superstitious, then they must feel pretty lucky going into this afternoon's tennis match against Texas A & M. 
The Irish (12-6). winners of their last six matches, go for lucky seven today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. By winning, Notre Dame hopes to hand the Aggies (6-9) their seventh straight loss. 
Despite the opposite direc­tions the two teams seem to be heading, Notre Dame head coach Jay Louderback cautions against overlooking the Aggies. 
"Their last six matches have been against some tough schools, and they've done pretty well against them," he said. "They only lost 3-6 to Mi­ami, who's ranked 14th, and 4­5 to Oklahoma State, a team on the fringe of the top-25. 
"Texas A & M started the sea­son not playing very well, and then they won a few matches, but now they've run into a tough schedule. Just before their recent losing streak, they beat a tough Wake Forest team that has been in and out of the top-25 all season." 
The Aggies top player is ju­nior Janine Burton-Durham, ranked 47th in the latest Inter­collegiate Tennis Association poll. Burton-Durham carries a 21-11 overall record into to­day's contest with the Irish. 
At number-one doubles, Bur­ton-Durham has teamed with senior Julie Blackburn for a 10-7 season record and an ITA ranking of 28th. 
The Irish will attempt to counter the Aggies number-one singles player with freshman Wendy Crabtree. Crabtree (19­

8) is ranked 78th in the latest ITA release and is coming off a 6-4, 4-6, 7-5 upset of Clemson's Boba Tzvetkova, the 58th ranked player in the nation. 
In addition to A & M's ranked player, Louderback points to some of the lower seeds as im­portant matches. 

"Last year, their three and four singles players (Anna Schlumpf and Christine Di­Nardo) beat Christy Faustmann and Lisa Tholen in good matches. This year, those two have been playing at five and six, so those should be competi­tive as well." 
The Irish's five and six spots will likely be filled by sopho­more Laura Schwab and freshman Holyn Lord who hopes to continue her 15-match win-streak against the Aggies. During the streak, Lord has lost only one set out of 31 played. 
The match, originally sched­ule to be held outdoors at the Courtney Tennis Center, has been moved indoors to the Eck Pavilion. 
"Having the match indoors should be to our advantage," said senior captain Eniko Bende, "because we haven't had much chance to play out­side yet this season, while Texas probably has." 
The contest with the Aggies will end a seven match homes­tand for the Irish, and they will not return to the Eck Pavilion until their last match of the season, an April 20 contest with Purdue. 

Conserve electricity: Turn off the lights! 
Best Selection -Best Service 
TREK.usAIJaJocEsronE '( 
SPfOA/JZED. 
603 N. Second St. 
,

BlKE~ Nlles, MI 49120 
SPECIALISfS(616) 683--3100 
QB picture still unclear 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Questions will be asked, as­sumptions can be made, and opinions will be voiced, but six practices into spring drills the quarterback for the 1993 Notre Dame football team is as uncertain as ever. 
Head coach Lou Holtz and his staff are mum about who has the edge at this point in spring drills. 
"They have both done good things," said Holtz. 
"It will definitely be a dog­fight," said offensive coordina­tor Skip Holtz. "Physically they are both in great shape. They are great athletes. They both have surprised me in terms of their leadership role." 
One player who has an inter­esting view of the situation is center Tim Ruddy who will be snapping the ball to one of the two players as a member of the first team. 
"I here a lot about it (the quarterback controversy)," commented Ruddy, "but right now all I can worry about it the offensive line. Whoever is be­hind me is going to to a great job." 
There appears to be no ani­mosity between the two quar­terbacks, as both appear moti­vated by the chance to better the team. 
"If I am the best person, I should get it. If he is, then he should," said McDougal, "whatever is best for the team." 
"I have so much respect for both of them," said Lou Holtz. "They both understand the sit­uation. We are honest to them. All we want to do is give our seniors the best chance to win." 
Fans wonder if prize recruit Ron Powlus can step in and lead the attack, a possibility which was not ruled out by Skip Holtz. 
"If Paul and Kevin don't show that they can lead this team, then we will have to go into the fall and take a look at Powlus," stated Notre Dame's offensive coordinator. "How hard a look he gets depends on how well those two do in the spring." 

Football 
continued from page 20 
because we have no linebackers," joked Minter. Moments later the second-year coach followed by saying, "Our front four are going to be pretty darn good." 
The real motivation for the change is to utilize the strength of the defense, depth and talent on the line. 
"I think it (the 4-3 defense) works best for our defense," said Young. "We have some experience guys and a lot of younger players with talent." 
Offensively the coaching staff is doing little changing, just at­tempting to see what hand they've been dealt, but they are trying a few new things in the way of offensive tactics. 
"If you are going to try something new, you do it in the spring," said offensive coordi­nator Skip Holtz. "We have been working on more under coverage reads instead of down field and some other things." 


To Kristin, Her Roomies, and all the Domers: 
THANKS GUYS! I HAD A BLAST! 
Love, Celeste 

Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Apartments Available at 
$250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 

• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 

• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping 

• 
Fenced Parking 


Come see the changes we have maile. You won't be disappointed! 
For more Info call: 
232-8256 
Friday, April 2, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Women's golf to face top teams at I U > 
1.000  
1.000  
2  2  .500  
2  2  .500  
4  .000  
.000  
.000  
.000  


games. 
"It's the games ofthe . them,.. said Notre Pat Murphy. "It's their . Series. Butler knows there ·• no way they are going to NCAA Regionals and lnEme·a ... probably no way they ar~e g111.Qlg to Omaha in the uear ~utiuc~,. <>'II their biggest game is . Notre Dame at home weather will be making it a little 
"If we concentrate our game and forget"""'~"~ ........ . pectations and stuff we'll be fine.~ said •.~ ...·~r··--.z··· "They are a much '"''"r..,,v.,., ball club and gave could handle last . 
Last year, the Irish · 
Happy 20'h Birthday ffOI' r%n" 
.lOHN Vl!:NalNC!:ll 
Love, Mom, Dad, Ben, David, Sadie, &Spook 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
In any sport, it usually takes a newcomer a while to become established and be able to com­pete with the better programs in the sport. Coach Tom Hanlon and the Notre Dame women's golf team hopes to continue their improvement with a strong performance in this weekend's Indiana University Invitational. 
, Established as a varsity sport in 1988, the team will get a good test of how far it has come this weekend against some of the better teams in the region including traditional Big Ten powers Indiana, Michigan, Iowa, and Ohio State. 
However, recent perfor­mances including earlier victo­ries over Michigan and Iowa indicate that the Irish are ready to be very competitive and def­initely improve on last year's disappointing last place finish in the tournament. 
The Irish hopes will rest most heavily on senior captain Kathy Phares who is coming off an impressive showing at last weekend's Western Kentucky Invitational with a strong 7 4 in the first round. 
''I've been very encouraged by Kathy's play. She's been my most consistent player for four years now," said Hanlon. 
However, consistency among the other four players making the trip will be key to how the Irish are able to finish. Hanlon notes that all are capable of scoring well in any given round, but cautions, "They need better 
concentration and can't throw 
away any shots." 
After playing two solid rounds 
in the Western Kentucky Invi­
tational, sophomore Katie 
Shannon will play in the second 
slot for the Irish, while fresh­
man Julie Melby, who played 
very well when the team trav­
elled to Florida, will be in the 
third position. The team is 
rounded out by juniors Alicia 
Murray and Chrissy Klein, both 
of whom are capable of scoring 
in the 70's or low 80's. 
Indiana comes into its own tournament as the favorite, with Wisconsin and Northern Illinois expected to challenge strongly. However, Hanlon was confident that if all five golfers · shoot as expected, improvement 
will continue. 

Field events highlight weekend track 

By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team competes this weekend at the Indiana Intercollegiates in Indianapolis. 
Featured at this week's com­petition will be the field events. Greg Moretti will compete in the hammer throw while Mike Fleisch
,­

STUDENTS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP SPRING PASSES NOW AVAILABLE VALID THROUGH GRADUATION $50.00 
CALL 631-6425 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Act Now GRADUATION 1993 
Free 
Room &Board 
DEADLINE FOR HOUSING EXTENDED TO 
April 8th $5.80/hr May 7.. 16 
APPLY IN PERSON CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE SOUTH DINING HALL--LOWER LEVEL 
Monday, April 5-Thursday, April 8 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
and Brian Kubicki will throw the shot put. IC4A qualifiers John Smerek and Stuart Tyner will compete in the discus and David Platt will be throwing the javelin. 
"Stuart Tyner and John Smerek are looking better and better each week," said field event coach Scott Winsor. "We're looking for some improvement out of them. They still have not reached their po­tential by far." 
1! 
In the jumping events, Brian Headrick, Tom Mescall and Todd Johnston will be competing in the high jump. The long jump will feature Ray Holder and Tom Mescall while Holder will also compete in the triple jump. Dan Grenough will compete at the Indiana Intercollegiates in the pole vault. 
"Ray Holder did a good job last week," said Winsor, "We're looking for him to improve." 
"This will be an excellent track meet," said head track coach Joe Piane, "I'm looking forward to it." 
Also competing this weekend will be Todd Herman of the Irish men's track team. Herman, however will be competing at the Texas Relays in Austin Texas . Coach Winsor is hoping that the high jumper from linton, Ind. will provisionally qualify for the NCAA's. There has been good competition at this meet in the past. Last year Herman placed fourth, with a jump of 7' V2". 
"Hopefully he can jump well and find some warm weather," added Winsor, "If he performs as he's capable of performing he'll do fine." 

Turtle Creek A 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios Pool &Volleyball Laundry Facility 
ND Shuttle Service 
City Bus Line 2/10 of a mile from campus 



r page 18 The Observer 
Perfect record in jeopardy as Hoyas visit ND 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 

Just over halfway through the season, the Notre Dame lacrosse team is well on their way to achieving their goal of being undefeated heading into the NCAA tournament. 
Hut the 14th-ranked Irish (8­
0) encounter a possible pitfall to their untarnished record when they faceoff with 15th-ranked Georgetown (4-1) at 2:00 Sat­urday afternoon at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish will be put to the test as they run up against a powerful Hoya team that de­feated them last year in Wash­ington D.C. 10-6. Notre Dame is looking at that loss to provide some inspiration. although Irish coach Kevin Corrigan denies that there is a revenge factor involved. 
"We didn't play too well last year, so it's up to us to earn their respect and show them our best lacrosse," Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame will have to bring all their weapons to the table on Saturday because Georgetown coach Dave Urick brings in a very talented and deep Georgetown squad that should cause some problems for the Irish. 
The Hoyas boast the potent combination of twin junior midfielders Andy and Mike Sco­laroney, who are up for All­American honors this season. "They are a midfield-oriented team that is very good at creat­ing transition opportunities that result from a solid defensive team," remarked Corrigan. 
Therefore the pressure will be on the Irish midfield to re­spond to the Hoya attacks with strong defense and hard riding to prevent their transition game from resulting in a lot of shots on goal. That task will fall primarily on the shoulders of freshman Rob Tobin and ju­niors Willie Sutton and Billy Ahmuty with senior Ed Lamb, sophomore Kevin Lynyak, and freshman Brian Erickson seeing considerable time. 
On attack, Georgetown looks to junior attacker Scott Musa who leads the team in goals scored this season, and is de­scribed as a "quick, dangerous scorer". The Scolaroneys also provide a good deal of offense once the ball is settled in the offensive zone, so the Irish will have to keep their eye on both the attackers and the middies. 

It will be the job of the defensive line of junior Garrett Reilly 

a n d The Observer/ Sean Farnan s~pho~ores Willie Sutton, shown here against Hobart, and the rest of the Irish midfielders will face a 
Mike lorw and strong challenge as the Irish take on Georgetown. 
Billy Gallagher to keep Musa and the rest of.the Hoyas out of the sconng
column. Sophomore Ryan
J n ·n t t · 1 t th 
~we W1 s ar. m goa or e Insh, due to hts excellent pi';'-Y 
of late, and should face  a sttff  
volley  of  shots  from  
Georgetown.  

In the offensive zone, the Irish will send junior attackers Randy Colley and Robbie Sny­der, along with freshman Kevin Mahoney, to challenge sophomore Kevin Gates in goal for the Hoyas. The Irish have been on an offensive roll of late, averaging nearly 18 goals a game over their last three games, and will need every goal to crack a notably tough Georgetown defense. 
Another interesting match-up on Saturday will be between senior faceoff specialists Chip Lonsdale for Notre Dame and Cliff Clancy for Georgetown. Last year Georgetown domi­nated faceoffs, along with ground balls, which allowed them to dictate the tempo of the game and frustrate the Irish offensively. To be successful on Saturday, the Irish will need to 
Attention: Student Summer Storage 
Your safest, most secure, and conveniently located storage facility since 1990 has a FREE RENT special for STUDENTS ONLY. Call for details. 

(219)271-1105 
• 
Resident Manager 

• 
Security System 


• 
Call Now for Reservations Located on Douglas Rd. between St. Rd. 23 & Grape Rd. 




1 h · 1 f 
lacrosse game, remmtscent o 
contro the gam  t ese tw e.  o VIta areas o  
This should  be a classic  
· · f  

the Hobart struggle which went down to the wire. Corrigan foresees a tough contest that 
should stay tight the entire game. 
"Georgetown is a deep, tal­ented team, so I anticipate some streaks for both teams, but it should be a long day be­cause the game will be closes," said the Notre Dame coach. 
Saturday's game is one that the Irish need to win to main­tain their long-term goals for the NCAAs, and one that will, once and for all, prove to the lacrosse community on the east coast that Notre Dame deserves a permanent place on the lacrosse map. 
Friday, April 2, 1993 
SMCSPORTS 

This weekend, the Saint Mary's softball team will play North Central College at 3 p.m. away while the Belles' track team runs at 10 a.m. at the Mancester Invitational. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Ultimate Club will 
attempt to have practices Monday-Thursday at 4:30 p.m. at the Stepan Fields. Come when you can, all are welcome. 
The Men's Volleyball Team 
invites everyone to this weekend's grudge match against the Michigan State Spartans at 2:00 on Sunday afternoon at the JACC Thunder 
Pit. 

The NO/SMC sailing club will have a meeting for anyone interested on April 5 at 7 p.m. in 205 O'Shag, If you have questions, contact Tucker at 634-1765. 
CLASS OF 1993 
SENIOR INFORMAL friday, Aprill6, 1993 St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall ScoH St. and Western Ave. 

•Full Sit Down Polish Wedding Banquet 
•Two 
Great Bands: Dissfunktion Bughaus 

•"The 
Best Party of the YearH $15°0 single $25°0 a couple


Tickets at LaFortune Desk 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
FRIDAY 

#23 WOMEN'S TENNIS 
vs Texas A&M Eck Tennis Pavilion 4:00PM Courtney Tennis Center* Free admission 
SATURDAY 

#14 LACROSSE 
vs #15 Georgetown Loftus 2:00 PM Krause Stadium* Free admission 

*weather pennitting 



-----------~ ~-­
Today 
Friday, April 2, 1993 page 19 
JAY HOSLER 
-
.,.. 

F .. i. & Sat. MOVIE: THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS  .a.=:a:==:a:=E=~·:a:=:a:++~ c::=~w:a»-.::r!S ..~~:.:»s; Sign up for one of six to eight 1 1/2 hr. slots on Fieldhouse Mall during AnTostal. Dates are WED. April 21 and THUR. April 22 between 4:00 -9:00 pm Call Jesse Ewan at 277-5612 or 631-456•. Drop off a demo tape at the SUB office,  
2nd Floor LaFortune, in his mailbox.  
STUDENT UNION lOAD  

28 Hearkens 31 Stop 32Toand­33 Youthful 34 Orel's river 35 Get back 37 Gold, in 
Gerona 38 Site of Potomac 
State College 40 A Ritter of films 41 Bit 42 Growing out 43 Average grade 44 "J.F.K." director 45 Led a sure 
winner 47 Examine 

48TireofW.W.II 50 Plague 54 "Thanks-!" 55 LEFT BANK? 58 Ares, to Caesar 59 Sea duck &o San Marino 
money 61 Ques.'s 
companion 62 Perfume 63 Try to find 
DOWN 
1 Drum's companion 2 Down with!: Fr. 3 Shea cover 4 Car-door adjunct s Struck powerfully 6 Smoke solid 7 Torah holder 
~;:+.:;.r::+.=:-R 12 Pia ye rs for 
Casey 15 "Dracula" author 
17 All-inclusive -=-+:=-r.-r.-i-=+:::+.:+.71 21 Dark yellow -=+;:.,.+.:;+.:::-~ 23 Darted 
26 DOWNCAST? 27 Killer whale 29 Singer Bobby 30 Incline 32 Notagin 33 Plague 35 The Little 
Colonel 36 Churchill's sign 39 Commences 41 Some solid 
alcohols 

ARRIVE ALIVE ... ...DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE 
43 Actor Hardwicke 49 Dash 44 Seven big ones 51 "... ~aked in 46An Oscar 
winner: 1931-32 52 Withered 
47 Plunger's loss 53 Pierre's st. 
48 An incarnation 56 Opus by Horace 
of Vishnu 57 Decimal base 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0219 
BILL WATIERSON 

•.o\-1. ITs J\JSI A C<YVPLE 
YO\J Nt.'IER KNoW 

c:k P£.1'-\~\ES. I'VE ~~ 
W\-\t.N ~t<\t. CRt>.IED 

t>.. \-\OLE IN Mi POCK£\. 
RCl0£..~1 wrru coLD -~:'ti~EW-J.< 
{:ITT t-.\\GI-\1 BE 
R\JN~Il'-lG LOOSE 
IN 'iO\JR PM--IlS. J{'l 
LL

~ I 
1'----..-------7,,_~~ •~'-"'""' 

->-.~;;Qt­
t 

\~ ) 
I, /) 
~ 
. 

Sports 
page 20 Friday, April 2, 1993 

By KEVIN JANICKI foilists to Penn State and 
Sports Writer Columbia put left them in fourth place. However, the Irish foilists showed as they have all 
The Notre Dame fencing year long, that they could fence 
team, which qualified three with the nation's top teams. squads, finished sixth overall at "The foil team fenced well," the NCAA Championships this noted head men's coach Mike week at Wayne State University DeCicco, "but to be successful 
in Detroit, Michigan. at this level, those matches The epee squad finished need to be won." 
sixth, the men's foil finished On the last day of competi­fourth, and the women's foil tion, a 5-2 loss to Princeton b, took ninth, giving the team a the epee team gave them a 
total of 1725 points. The meet sixth place finish. After losin)! was won by Columbia, who two out of three matches in the scored 4525 points and edged preliminary rounds, it took a 5 out Penn State, who totaled 4 victory over Midwestern riva 4500 points. Illinois to finish sixth. 
The individual competition took on rather unusual look as "I thought it was a very aver lower ranked fencers placed 
age performance by our epe( high for the Irish while the squad, as well as the whol1
II
team's top fencers did not per­team," said DeCicco, "We ha1 
form as expected. File Photo some impressive performance 
For the men's foil on Satur­The Notre Dame fencing team finished sixth as a team at the NCAA Championships held March 27-31. by individuals such as Sta1 day, it was sophomore Stan from last year, Per Johnsson she should become one of the handily beaten the Irish earlier Brunner and Geoff PechinskyBrunner who had the best fin­notched 20th. top women's foilists in collegiate this year kept them in the but overall we did not have th1 ish for Notre Dame, capturing Both of Notre Dame's women fencing," said head women's competition while a crucial team effort needed to be sue 11th. Meanwhile, junior Rian qualifiers were knocked out coach Yves Auriol. first-round loss to Stanford cessful at the NCAA champi Girard finished 17th, and Mid­early in the competition. In the team competition, the made things difficult. onships." 
west Regional winner senior Freshman Claudette DeBruin ninth place finish by the Irish "Besides the first match I Jeff Piper placed 19th. showed promise by taking 18th, was quite impressive consider-thought we fenced very well," DeCicco also cited the sabn 
In the epee, senior Geoff while senior Kathleen Vogt took ing that none of the fencers had said Auriol, "Despite our inex-team, which did not qualify fm Pechinsky took ninth while ju­25th. any NCAA championship perience, we almost beat a very the championships, for an ex nior Greg Wozniak finished "Claudette has started off her experience. A tie with defend-good Temple team." cellent season recalling a latf 17th. Notre Dame's top finisher career well and with hard work ing champion Temple who had Two 5-4 losses by the men's season victory over Columbia. 
Spring football brings changes 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN defensive scheme as the position draws Sports Editor the coverage of the opposing team's bcs receiver. "Jeff will be fine," said defensive 
With six of the fifteen allowed spring coordinator Rick Minter. "He should havej practices behind them, the nucleus of the no trouble with the switch." 1993 Notre Dame football team prepares A more important more for Minter and for the most important part of spring the defense is the move from a 3-4 drills. defense used last season to 4-3 set. The 
"We want to be able to evaluate our Irish return experienced lineman Bryant 
players, and that will start Saturday," said Young, Jim Flanigan, Brian Hamilton, and Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz at the annual Oliver Gibson as well as a number of spring football press luncheon. "We are talented youngsters. 
"Why are we going to a four man line,
• QB Questions/ see page 16 gomg to scnmmage as many plays this see FOOTBALLJpage 16 spring as we will play during the course of the season." 
Holtz and his staff plan on scrimmaging the bulk of the remaining practices, and the Notre Dame coach mentioned the possibility of five of the final six workouts at full contact. 
The rigorous schedule will give the coaching staff an opportunity to view a 
-
number of the unestablished players, as well as see the results of a number of experiments taking place during spring
Senior Ronnie Alvarez slides into home as the ball gets away from the catcher. The Irish 
drills.

are competing at the Illinois State Tournament this weekend. 
One such experiment is the move of last 
Observer Staff Report Brandenburger (2-0, 0.78), freshman Tern season's starting guards Aaron Taylor and Kobata (3-2, 0.87) and junior Carrie Miller Todd Norman to the tackle spots. Holtz left After defeating Western Michigan earlier (2-2, 1.28) will lead Notre Dame. The Irish open the possibility of moving the twothis week. the Notre Dame softball team will be without the services of senior pitcher 
.... 
back to their original positions, but for(11-8) heads to Normal, Ill. for the Subway Staci Alford, who remains out with the flu. 
now the two remain entrenched at tackle 
Lady Redbird Classic. There the Irish will In the 4-1 win against Western ""'''""·a• in order to get the best athletes on theplay against the host team from Illinois Notre Dame was led by Kobata who 
line.

State, DePaul, and Wisconsin-Green Bay. up one run on two hits while striking .A likely replacement at one guard spot"We're excited to play this weekend," said three in the complete game. On offense is sophomore Mark Zataveski, who drewPinter. "It was nice to play some Connoyer and senior Casey McMurr high praise from Holtz.
home, but we'll do fine this notched two hits while Hayes, Keys an "Mark Zataveski has been one of thePinter got one hit each. 
more pleasant surprises," commented
Irish head into the tournament led at The weather had been unkind to th Notre Dame's coach. "He has been one ofate by several consistent hitters softball team with last weekends' the most improved players on the team." 
sophomore Sara Hayes (.283, 9 State tournament cancelled as well as Another change which has drew the
second half of the Western Michi 
coaches eye is the switch of Jeff Burrisdoubleheader. Hopefully, the rain and from strong safety to field cornerback.
lsmlhnlmnr·p Andrea Keys (.222, 7 RBI). will stay away this weekend so that Burris' new position is integral to the IrishFrom the mound, freshman Kara Irish can play all the games. 

O~~DliDrn SPORTS 


MEN'S VOLLEYBALL
NO BASEBALL 
NO LACROSSE 
Notre Dame defeats 
The Irish continue MCC Undefeated #14 Irish to 
Andrews and looks to MSU.
play against Butler. meet # 15 Georgetown. 
see page 15

see page 17 see page 18 










