Author Robert Fulghum shares thoughts on life 
By ELIZABETH MARTIN 
News Writer 
Transformation is the essence of life and to gain this transformation you sometimes have to have a larger scope of vision. according to Robert Fulghum. in a lecture last night in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Robert Fulghum. most famous for the publi­cation "All I Really Need to Know 1 Robert Learned in Fulghum Kindergarten... encouraged audience participa­tion as he wove stories around the theme of transformation. 
Fulghum read from his books and talked to the audience in the grandfatherly way for which he is famous. For over an hour and a half. Fulgham took the audience on what he called a "transformative jour­ney." He said that the theme one of his favorite stories is transformation. 
Sitting down. putting his feet up. and readjusting his bow tie. Fulghum told a story of a game called. "Wizards. Giants and Dwarfs," in which each child chooses what he/she wants to be from the three choices. A small girl insisted she was a mermaid. not a wizard, giant. or a dwarf. 
She searched his eyes won­dering where mermaids fit in the game. He took her hand and said. "We'll find a place for you." To Fulghum. the yearn­ing and determination in this young face was the touchstone of his own transformation. he said. 
We all have experiences in our lives that transform us when we least expect it. Fulghum said. Determination is essential to accomplishment. he added. 
When met with a challenge or task that seems nearly impossi-

Former NO coach considering legal action 
ble, Fulghum reminds himself that he has a B.A. degree. 
Put simply he said that this degree proves that "there is no task in life that cannot be com­pleted between 9 a.m. Sunday and 9 a.m. Monday." Fulghum said that his college years taught him that "not only could you read War and Peace in that short of time period. but you could write it." 
Thousands of people were ·positively influenced and trans­formed by All I Really Needed to Know I Learned in Kindergarten. Fulghum said. He reflected on some of the teachings in that essay last night. 
"This is not kids stuff. It is not simple and sweet" Fulghum said. It is simply the language of basic truths which get more complex as we grow older. he added. 
The prompting to "clean up your own mess" can be trans­lated into the environmental crisis today. Fulghum insisted that. "Sanitation is essential for survival." Stress management seminars can be parallelled with "taking a nap." If every­one would "lie down. shut up. and leave people alone for awhile" the world would be a better place, he said. 
This talk in South Bend was one of a series of over 40 lec­tures in which Fulgham is rais­ing money for philanthropic organizations. All proceeds from Fulghum's talk last night will go toward Michiana Community Hospital. 
An added benefit of last night's lecture came from the Act II Associates theatre group. 
They educate and motivate audiences on topics such as wellness. stress. time manage­ment. customer service. and creativity. according to member Dave Dufour. 
"When you use humor. it makes your message memo­rable." he said. 
The Observer/John Bingham 
Women informing women 
Walsh Hall Junior Ao~fe Moloney picks up inform.ation at the Women's Resource Center committee's open­house from staffers Lmda Chalk, Courtenay Red1s, and Tonya Callahan. The openhouse was held in order to answer questions about the group's purpose and to gather ideas for future programs. 


Boris Yeltsin's forces storm parliament 
By ALAN COOPERMAN heads. filed out of the burning came in response to Sunday's Associated Press building and were ushered by violent attempt by the hard-lin­troops onto waiting buses in ers to seize some government MOSCOW late afternoon. Gunfire erupted buildings and topple Yeltsin. Army tanks blasted holes in several times during the sur-The sides have been at bitter the parliament building just odds since Yeltsin ordered par­after dawn today and comman­.see BUSINESS, page 7 liament dissolved two weeks 
dos stormed inside through ago and set early elections for smoke and flame to crush an render. scattering crowds of December. armed challenge by hard-liners onlookers outside the white Leaders of parliament had opposed to President Boris marble building known as the barricaded themselves in the Yeltsin. Hundreds surrendered. Russian White House. White House with armed sup­
but sporadic gunfire persisted After nightfall. snipers peri­porters. challenging Yeltsin 's after sundown. odically shot glowing tracer effort to establish himself as the 
The hard-liners' leaders -bullets from the White House supreme authority in restruc­Vice President Alexander and neighboring buildings. turing Russia. The parliament. Rutskoi and parliament speaker indicating some parliament which was elected before the Ruslan Khasbulatov -were in supporters were holding out. Soviet collapse and was domi­custody. Yeltsin aide Dmitri Vladimir Polyakov. nated by Communists. tried to Rurikov told CNN. spokesman for Yeltsin's chief of hinder his reforms. 
What appeared to be a cru­staff Sergei Filatov. said hard­The army's assault opened cial victory for Yeltsin in the line lawmakers themselves had about 7 a.m.. flames spitting fight for political control in capitulated. from the barrels of T-72 tanks Russia came with a high price. As convoys of tanks and other as they pounded the White Soldiers piled dozens of bodies army vehicles moved into the House. Papers fluttered from outside the building after the area after dark. fire raged the shattered windows. fol­nearly 10-hour battle. which along much of an upper floor of lowed by heavy black smoke. climaxed the worst political vio­the shattered parliament build­Machine guns blasted from a lence in Moscow since the 1917 ing. Orange flames flared from neighboring hotel and apart­Bolshevik Revolution. windows elsewhere in the 19-ment house. 
Hundreds of lawmakers and story structure. supporters. hands on their The government's assault see RUSSIA I page 4 

Suicide car bomber rams bus hurting 30 
By NEIL MACFARQUHAR "Their activity and the focus There was no immediate Associated Press of their politics is directed at claim of responsibility. but making the agreement with the Hamas has said it carried out 
JERUSALEM Palestinians fail and to disrupt three similar previous attacks. 
A Palestinian suicide car chances of implementing it." Abdul-Aziz Rantisi. a Hamas bomber injured 30 Israelis Rabin told reporters. leader deported by Israel to when he rammed into a bus Lebanon last year. praised Monday. Prime Minister Lt. Gen. Ehud Barak, the Monday's attack as a "message Yitzhak Rabin said Israel will army's chief of staff. said simi­written in blood that expresses act against such attempts to lar attempts were expected and the true and honest feelings of disrupt the peace process. called on Israelis to remain the Palestinian toward the 
alert for them. Israel-PLO accord." 
"It is always an expression of The army would not confirm 
religious fanaticism and politi­the name of the attacker killed Seven of those injured at Beit 
cal extremism joined together," when the car exploded near El remained hospitalized with Rabin said. noting that car Beit El. a Jewish settlement just slight to moderate injuries. bombing appeared to be a new north of Jerusalem. tactic. Four such attacks have The car carried at least 20 
occurred in the last few The attack on the bus. just as grenades and a makeshift 
months. it was letting soldiers out in bomb made of gasoline canis­
Rabin said the army would front of the main West Bank ters with nails inside. the target Muslim extremist groups military headquarters. followed deputy commander of West -including Hamas and Islamic Israel's weekend crackdown on Bank forces. identified only as Holy War -and other organi­armed opponents of the Sept. Col. Merom. said on Israel ra­zations that resort to violence. 13 lsrael-PLO accord. dio. 
Observer Staff Repon 
Dan Devine. coach of the Notre Dame football team in 1975. has recently retained lo­cal services to possibly take le­gal action 
· against the filmmakers of the movie "Rudy-A True Story." 
Devine. cur­rentlyDirector of Dan Devine Athletics at the University of Missouri. has repeatedly ex­pressed public concern about a scene from the upcoming film. In the scene members of the 1975 Notre Dame football team storm the coach's office and one by one turn in their jerseys in order to convince Divine to allow walk-on Rudy Rettiger to play in the final home game. 
Devine maintains that both he and the University are por­trayed in a false light in that particular scene. according to Devine's council. Lyne Leone of South Bend. 
At Devine's request. Leone will attend the film's Indiana premier this Wednesday to re­view the film. 
"I am waiting to see if he (Devine) will come (to the pre­mier) or if I will serve as his spokesperson." Leone said. 

~--r-------------------------------------------------.------~--------------~--­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Cheer, cheer for ND's opponents 
This effort doesn't stand out as the most cerebral Inside Column I've ever written. For once I'm not praising the integrity of this country's sports teams which boast nicknames that are (gasp!) politically ;'f incorrect. (What better Brendan Regan reason to cheer for the OTS Director, Braves in the playoffs if Graphics Editor you're still undecided?) -------­Nor am I devoting this column to berating the hypocrites in the Coalition Against Responsible Behavior (a.k.a. Big Babies United for the Elimination of little Babies. but more common­ly referred to as the pro-choice movement). 
What I am doing is wondering in print about a curious phenomenon I noticed freshman year which persists yet. I had always remained silent. thinking that the wisdom I would gain by senior year would somehow enlighten me. No such luck. So I implore possessors of minds wiser than mine to write in and explain what funda­mental logic I amapparently failing to grasp. 
Why. at home football games when scores of games in progress elsewhere involving teams on our schedule are announced. do roars of thunderous jubilation erupt if our opponent is losing. while a collective groan follows a report of our opponent winning? 
To explain my confusion. I'll use as an exam­ple. because it is timely and illustrative. this Saturday's annual Wide Right Classic. Now. we have the #1-ranked Florida State Seminoles who appear on our schedule taking on the #3­ranked Miami Hurricanes who do not appear on our schedule. (Please try. difficult as it may be. to temporarily set aside the strong contempt we as Notre Dame fans are bound to hold for Miami. Think of them as Opponent X for pur­poses of this example.) According to the logic as I have come to understand it. we should be cheering against Florida State because they are one of our eleven "hated rivals" this year. It seems to me. however. that AP pollsters would be more impressed if ND knocked off an erst­while unbeatable (insert any ND opponent name) rather than one with a nwnber of losses. 
If we further acknowledge that in the case of these particular teams. we control our destiny with Florida State and have no control over our ranking vis-a-vis Miami. I think I've just made a case for nothing short of a stadium full of toma­hawk-chopping ND fans (which returns us to that political incorrectness thing again!). 
(For the philosophically inclined among you. I realize that the entire point of this column is nebulous-whom we are cheering for is irrele­vant. But taking this argument to its conclusion. score updates might as well be abolished since our knowledge has no impact on the results.) 
My sentiment having now been expressed to the Notre Dame community. I hope that during this Saturday's home contest against Pitt I can expect to hear cheering when the periodic updates about the lopsided margin Florida State holds over Miami are announced. But they had better be loud cheers. because I'll be in my apartment watching all the drama as it unfolds. See y'all for the second half! 
The views expressed in the Inside Colwnn are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Nancy Dunn  Cheryl Moser  
Nicole McGrath  Ron Veldman  
Sports  Accent  
Beth Regan  Lynn Bauwens  

Lab Tech Graphics John Bingham Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday except during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion riglus are reserved. 


WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Number ofpoor Americans reaches 36.9 million 
SUITLAND. Md. The number of poor Americans grew by 1.2 million in 1992, the government said Monday in a report that paints a portrait of an underclass that is disproportion­ately young and without health insurance. Analysts blamed stubborn unemployment and declining social ser­vices in the aftermath of the recession. The Census Bureau said there were 36.9 million poor Americans last year. accounting for 14.5 percent of the population. That was up three-tenths of a point from 1991 and the highest poverty rate since 15.2 percent in 1983. The 1992 pover­ty line for a family of four was $14,335. For someone liv­ing alone, it was $7.143. Overall. the number of poor people was the most since 38.6 million were counted in 1962. But because of population growth. last year's poverty rate remained well below the 21 percent figure of John Kennedy's days. And in a report sure to provide ammunition for the Clinton administration's health care reform plan. the government said 37.4 million Americans. or 14.7 percent of the population. lacked health insurance in 1992. an increase of 2 million. "Obviously the administration is saddened but not sur­prised by those figures," White House deputy press sec­retary Lorraine Voles said. "It underscores the need for health care reform in our country." Forty percent of the poor were children under 18. even though they com­prised only 26 percent of the U.S. population. Their 1992 poverty rate, 21.9 percent. was higher than for any other age group. Those numbers rang true for Carol Wynn. foster care director for Ada McKinley Community Services in Chicago, a government-funded center that provides care for 400 children. In the past year. the cen­ter has been overwhelmed by walk-ins. mostly parents who need drug treatment. food, medicine or an escape from an abusive home. "Typically. what they come here for is not what we're here for. In the past year, it's increased phenomenally," Wynn said. "We find services for them, tell them how to get there. Some do, and some don't." The median household income last year was $30,786. a statistically insignificant decline from the 
'Truth or Dare' e turns deadl 
DETROIT 

A game of "Truth or Dare" led to the slaying and dis­memberment of two young men who refused to take a dare. police said. Their heads. hands and torsos were buried in separate hiding places. Two suspects were under arrest and police were seeking a third Monday in the slayings of Tharon Carden. 14. and Timothy Davis. 
20. "It's hard to imagine something like this happening to any human being. especially children." said police homicide Lt. Tommy Alston. Police said the slayings occurred Sept. 10 and grew out of a game of "Truth or Dare," in which participants choose to either answer any question truthfully. or perform a dare named by the the leader. Tharon and Davis refused to take a dare. and were shot in the head, police told the Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News for stories Monday. 
Prosecutor: Brothers planned slayings 
LOS ANGELES 

A prosecutor chipped away at Erik Menendez's testimo­ny Monday. suggesting that actions the defendant described as spontaneous and motivated by fear actually followed a careful blueprint for murder. Erik. 22. is one of two brothers charged in the slayings of their wealthy parents. He repeated details of his account under cross­examination by Deputy District Attorney Lester Kuriyama. Erik insisted he and his brother Lyle. 25. feared their parents were going to kill them to prevent a scandal over the father's alleged sexual molestation of his 
Poverty trends in America t~ 
The number of poor Americans jumped to 36.9 million ~ last year. The figures show 1.2 million Americans were added to the poverty rolls, a fact analysts attributed to lingering unemployment amid a slow recovery from the recession. The number of poor Americans: 
Millions of people

40 
35 30 25 20 15 
10 
As a percentage of the population: 
25% . _r----~· 
·=::::;._1 195! 20% 
i. 22.4 y~ ······l·······"•········t····· .., 15% 
10% 


5% 




lllllllllllllll_lllll
0 
1960-1969 197Q-1979 1980-1989 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau APN/m. J. Castello 
$31.034 recorded in 1991. the government reported. Daniel Weinberg. the Census Bureau official in charge of the poverty numbers. said the income figures left some room for optimism. "We know, if the poor got poorer. they didn't get much poorer." Weinberg said at a news conference. 
sons. The brothers admit shooting Jose and Kitty Menendez to death on Aug. 20. 1989. Prosecutors say the brothers carefully plotted the killings, motivated by greed for their parents' fortune. Kuriyama concentrated on the brothers' movements for two days before the shootings. He focused on their decisions to buy the guns in San Diego and have Erik use a friend's driver's license as identification. Erik stuck to his original account. but fre­quently answered "I don't remember" when asked for specifics. 
Former priest admits molesting 28 children 
NEW BEDFORD. Mass. 
A former priest who warned youngsters "God would get them" if they told of being sexually abused admitted molesting 28 children at three Massachusetts parishes in the 1960s. Some of James R. Porter's victims. now in their 30s and 40s. sat in the courtroom Monday and cried softly as officials read a litany of the Roman Catholic priest's crimes. "''ve done my 30 years and now it's his turn," one victim. George Hardie, said later. Porter pleaded guilty to 41 charges, including 27 counts of inde­cent assault and battery on a child under 14. He could get up to 200 years in prison at sentencing Dec. 6. Prosecutors said 125 men and women had come forward. willing to testify that Porter had molested them when they were children. They said several had complained to church officials at the time. without results. Porter, 58. molested his victims in his office, rectories, a changing room beside the altar. a summer camp and a junior high school locker room. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, Oct. 5 

Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


VIS Associated Press GraphJCsNet C1993 Accu·Weather.lnc. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 5. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY IC> 1993 Accu·Weether. Inc. 

Pr6Ssure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl<!l Assoclllt9d Press 

City  H  L  Cleveland  74  52  New York  73  51  
Athens A11anta Bogota Boston Chi...,go  77 82 68 72 65  66 54 41 48 50  Dallas Indianapolis Jerusalem London Los Angeles Minneapolis  82 75 79 61 73 56  58 47 59 52 65 40  Paris Philadelphia Phoenix Reno Rome Tokyo  66 76 103 73 64 73  57 52 75 51 57 57  

Tuesday, October 5, 1993 _The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 
RHA finalizes Alcohol Awareness Week plans 
By KIMBERLY BERO 
News Writer 
Finalizing the plans for the. upcoming National Colle_giate Alcohol Awareness Week was the primary task of Residence Hall Association (RHA) mem­bers at last night's meeting. 
Having students sign week­long sobriety contracts and handing out "Buckle Up" key chains are among current con­siderations. said Tricia Wallace. RHA president. 
Activities will be planned for each day of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. but a final agenda is still in the works. Wallace said. 
In other business: 

•The 
Annual Little Sibs Weekend sponsored by RHA will be held the weekend of Feb. 18 to 20. according to Melissa Peters. RHA chairper­son. 

•The 
proposed cable bill made by RHA to the Senior Officers has been delayed until next week . according to Wallace. 


The bill. if approved. would provide cable television in Holy Cross Hall. McCandless Hall. and Regina North Hall lounges. The estimated installation fee is $1 OQ per hall, to be paid by each hall council. Wallace said. 
•Augusta 
Hall's dance was approved for Nov. 19. In addi­tion, Augusta Hall council is now selling commemorative sesquicentennial T -shirts. 

•Regina's 
SYR was changed from Dec. 3 to Dec. 4. accord­ing to Regina Hall council. 

•Le 
Mans Hall Dance was for­mally set for Oct. 15 in Dining Hall. according to Danielle Burton. Le Mans rep­resentative. 

•
Holy Cross announced their Halloween Masquerade set for Oct. 15 in Haggar Parlor. The proposed theme of the mas­querade is "The Haunted Mansion,"according to Holy Cross council representatives. 

•McCandless 
finalized Nov. 20 as the date for their upcom­ing SYR. according to McCandless council representa­tives. 

•Other 
activities planned for the year include an inter-hall volley ball tournament spon­sored by RHA. The tournament will encompass teams from all five dorms and will feature prizes and a traveling trophy. 

•RHA 
has also agreed to sponsor a mass in McCandless Hall lounge during finals week this semester. RHA cancelled the previously scheduled mid­terms week mass. 


Coming this Friday ... ND vs. Pitt 
A special section 
Mandy-Not afraid to sport the 

~~~mtd!:OOCGJ ~~~2 
We Love u 
Anyway! 




Leadership 
•

seminars' 
•


preview 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Several leadership seminars will be available to Notre Dame students to help them improve personal leadership skills, said Student Body Vice President Nikki Wellmann. 
"We expect Notre Dame graduates to be leaders in their communities and work places. yet they never receive any for­mal leadership training." Wellmann said. 
The seminars. sponsored by Student Government and Student Activities. will take place at 7 p.m. on Monday nights in the Notre Dame room in LaFortune Student Center for five weeks this semester. 
"We are hoping the program will develop into a seminar that will make students more mar­ketable," Wellmann said. 
The following is a list of this semester's scheduled seminars: 
•Oct. 
11 -"How to Coordinate a Project at ND" 

•Nov. 
1 -"How to be an Effective Leader" 


•Nov. 8 "Decision Making/Problem Solving" 
• Nov. 15-"Creating Change in an Organization" 
Associate Director of Student Activities Gayle Spencer and members of Student Government will conduct the meetings, according to Wellmann. 

ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
Students having trouble cop­ing with demanding schedules need to learn how to make better use of their time. according to Student Body Vice President Nikki Wellmann. who presided over yesterday's Time and Stress Management workshop along with Gayle Spencer. assistant director of Student Activities. 
The informal lecture. spon­sored by Student Activities and Student Government. offered attendees advice on efficient study habits and effective time management. 
Wellmann had students esti­mate and add up the amount of time per week they spend on all significant activities such as sleeping. eating and studying. Subtracting this amount from the total number of hours in a week revealed that the average student can spend as many as fifty hours each week doing essentially nothing. 
This time, Wellmann said, could be better utilized through various methods of effective time management. Her time management tips included: 
•Know where you are losing time. Understand when you are engaged in unimportant activities. 
Recycling  If you'd  You will  
Is easy, Isn't II 7  like to know more,  find  
In fact,  send a  taking the first  
it's one of  postcard to  step toward recycling  
the easiest ways  the Environmental  can be as easy  
you personally  Defense Fund·Recycling,  in practice  
can make the world  257 Park Ave. South,  as it is  
a better place.  NY, NY, 10010.  here on paper.  
R E C Y C L E  

CIGNA CORPORATION INFORMATION SESSION 
LIFE ACTUARIES DISCUSSING ACTUARIAL CAREER OPPORTUNITIES MEMBERS OF ALL CLASSES ARE WELCOME! 
Wednesday, October 6 6 p.m. -8 p.m. LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Ro::m CASUAL ATTIRE 




Conversations 
"BRINGING FACULTY &STUDENTS TOGETHER" 

Students get tips on dealing with stress 
•Keep 
your ideas. tasks. etc. posted on your mirror. in order to keep them in the front of your mind. To-Do lists and calendars are also useful tools. 

•If 
you try to "just get by". you will find yourself falling behind. Don't procrastinate. Try to stay ahead of schedule. 

•Make 
decisions the first time around. Making deci­sions faster leaves time for correcting your mistakes. 


While the stress caused by collegiate life can be a result of many factors. the primary one focused upon yesterday was study-related. Wellmann also had several suggestions for effective studying: 
•Plan 
a well-balanced sched­ule. Divide your time between a variety of activities. 

•Study 
at a regular time in a regular place. This helps min­imize distractions and avoid a difficult assimilation into a 


new study environment. 
•Limit your study on any course to blocks of no more than two hours. This helps stave off fatigue and boredom. 
The workshop also featured an audiotape designed for stress relief. The relaxation tape was the last of a number of options the session brought up for students dealing with the stresses of collegiate life. 
D'S 
1211001. 
TIMEFOR 
ANOTHER 
LIFEORDEATH 
DEGISION. 

When you make a habit of ..:noosing high-cholesterol foods. you're choosing a dangerous course. One that could lead to a high choles· terollevel in your blood and """'1tuaUy to a heart attack. 
Remember that the next 
ttme you browse through .. 
menu. And place your order 
as though your very life depended on it. 

American Heart Association W'ERE FIGHTlNG F<.:::R \OJRUF£ 
~ '2.6 'IIAYS ~heLp SA'~e-me ~Sl~CALL 1--~-'1-88-8887. 

page 4 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
holding children by the hand. watched the battle and surren­
Russia 
der from a bridge and nearby streets. They ignored attempts
continued from page 1 
by soldiers to wave them back The parliament's defenders out of danger. threw firebombs and fired back An 11 p.m.-5 a.m. curfew was from the barricaded building as imposed throughout the capital. 
well as from the nearby Police said 5.000 men also mayor's office they captured would patrol the streets and 
Sunday. check vehicles at random for 
No accurate casualty count weapons. was available. Yeltsin's military adviser. Gen. Dmitry Yeltsin had promised not to Volkogonov. initially told re­use force to end the standoff 
porters that up to 500 might with lawmakers who defied his have been killed inside the Sept. 21 decree dissolving par­White House. but stressed liament and calling new elec­"that's not confirmed." tions. He changed his mind Government officials later said after Russia's long political cri­that estimate was too high. sis exploded into riots by par­
The attack came after anti­liament supporters Sunday. Yeltsin forces overwhelmed po­At least 24 people were re­lice lines surrounding the par­ported killed Sunday afternoon liament Sunday and then cap­when the crowds smashed 
tured the mayor's office. through police lines. stormed Supporters of parliament lead­the mayor's office and attacked ers also tried to take the state the'television complex. television complex, battling While the storming of the troops for hours overnight. White House could break the 
Yeltsin's forces ceased fire at hard-line opposition. it also noon to give parliament· mem­could provide Yeltsin's oppo­
hers a chance to surrender. nents with martyrs and ruin his About 72 people. mainly reputation as a man of peace. women. came out with their When Yeltsin stood up to the 
hands up. government officials Communist coup attempt in 
said. August 1991. his opponents Yeltsin's defense minister. either balked at storming the Pavel Grachev. arrived later in 
White House or were unable to a limousine to negotiate on a get the military to attack the bridge over the Moscow River building. ringed with civilian 
with a group of hard-liners who demonstrators. came out of the White House But the army struck today waving a white flag. with overwhelming force. in­
Russian TV said Grachev cluding at least 10 heavy tanks, handed the parliament sup· seven light tanks and 25 ar­porters a piece of paper that mored personnel carriers. was believed to be an ultima­tum to give up or face destruc­Volkogonov. Yeltsin's military tion. adviser. said 700 soldiers from 
"The time for talks is over."' 
the elite Kantemirov motorized 
Yeltsin spokesman Anatoly infantry division attacked the Krasikov told The Associated White House with support of Press earlier. "Now the only tanks from other units. thing they can do is to hang out Yeltsin went on nationwide 
the white flag." television to explain the attack One final barrage of heavy while it was still raging. 
gunfire briefly raked the par­"All that was and still is going liament building after the talks. on in Moscow -was an armed 
Hard-liners then began filing revolt planned in advance." he out. said. "It was organized by 
Hundreds of spectators. somP. Communists seeking revenge, 
HAPPY "21ST" BIRTHDAY 
AMY CATHLEEN 
SPECIAL lDVE, 
MoM, DAD & 
MUFFlE 
21st Annual Summer Program 
NO -SMC STUDENTS 
LONDON 
MAY 18 ·JUNE 19 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, and France 
ROME 
JUNE 12 ·JULY 11 
Travel in-France, Germany, and Switzerland 
COURSES OFFERED IN Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Literature, Photography, Sociology 
MEETING OCTOBER 11 
6:30 PM CARROLL HALL, SMC FREE PIZZA Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Professor Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Moscow violence 
Events leading up to the violent ~~\ 
stankino Television j

showdown in Moscow 
nd Radio Center

{All times given are local): ~--------· ·­
OCTOBER2 1p.m. 
Hundreds of stone-throwing hard-liners battled police in central Moscow near Foreign Ministry and set up burning barricades. 
3p.m. 
Parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov condemned police actions from inside parliament, where he and other hard-line lawmakers have been holed up since President Boris Yeltsin disbanded parliament Sept. 21. 
9p.m. Demonstrators dispersed, leaving behind piles of debris which were bulldozed to the side of the Garden Ring Road. 
OCTOBER3 
12:30 p.m. 
Several dozen hard-line supporters of parliament attempted to rebuild the barricades on the Garden Ring Road, but were dispersed by police. 
2p.m. About 10,000 parliament supporters gathered at October Square under a giant statue of Soviet founder Vladimir I. 
by fascist leaders and some of the former lawmakers." 
"There can be no forgiveness. because they lifted their hand against peaceful people .. in Sunday's rioting. he added. 
The attack caught motorists by surprise. Men waving pistols kept pedestrians and journal­ists off a bridge leading to the parliament. A city bus passed through the area as frightened passengers crouched in their seats and the driver bore a look of terror. 
After his opponents went on the offensive Sunday. Yeltsin rushed back to the Kremlin from his country home. He de­clared a state of emergency. giving police wide power to crack down on unrest and ap­pealed not to aid his opponents. 
"We call upon your common sense and responsibility for the fate of your children," a gov­ernment statement said. 

headed down Garden Ring Road toward the Parliament, known as the White House. They punched through police lines with clubs, metal pipes, and wooden planks and pelted officers with a steady rain of rocks and bottles. 
4p.m. 
Demonstrators reached the White House, and volleys of gunfire erupted. Much of the firing was in the air. Volunteer parliament guards stormed the nearby city government building after driving captured army trucks through the plate glass front doors, and sprayed the building with bullets. 
6p.m. 
At the urging of Khasbulatov, thousands of parliament supporters gathered at the main television complex and attempted to stonn the building, which was guarded by elite government troops stationed inside. 
6:30p.m. 
Yeltsin declared a state of emergency in Moscow. 
Bp.m. Three television channels went off the air after demonstrators fired rocket-propelled grenades at the television center, starting afierce gunbattle. Dozens of protesters stormed the building, but were repulsed by the troops inside. Government forces at the television center were reinforced by troops in 12 personnel carriers. AP 

ROBERT KENNEDY JR. 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 7 7:30PM STEPAN $3 



Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 


Tuesday, October 5, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
Trade center bombing trial begins 
-I 
J 
1 

By LARRY NEUMEISTER Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
One by one. a prosecutor pointed to four Muslim funda­mentalists charged in the World Trade Center bombing and said Monday their "war of terrorism.. had shattered Americans· sense of security. 
The Feb. 26 bombing. which killed six people and injured more than 1,000, was a "most destructive act" but had no eyewitnesses. Assistant U.S. Attorney Gilmore Childers said in his opening statement. 
He said no one will testify they saw the bomb being made or being driven in a rental van into a garage under the 110­story towers. but the evidence will tie the four defendants to each other and to the attack. 
Some of the defendants ­Mohammad Salameh. 26. Ahmad Ajaj, 27. Mahmud Abouhalima, 34. and Nidal Ayyad. 25 -shook their heads several times during the pre­sentation but otherwise showed no emotion. 
Defense lawyers maintained the men's innocence. Salameh 's lawyer. Robert Precht. was slapped on the back and kissed by Salameh after he told jurors that "truth is sometimes an elu­sive thing." Outside the court­room, Precht said it was a "stunning admission.. that there were no witnesses to the key events. 
The bombing occurred as tens of thousands of people in the world's second tallest build­ings were going about their business at 12:17 p.m., "unaware that one minute later. at 12:18, their lives would change forever:· Childers said. 
The blast killed a locksmith. 
two maintenance supervisors. a 
dental supply salesman. a preg­nant woman and a restaurant manager finishing lunch. 
"From that point forward. Americans knew that 'this can happen to me. here in the United States,' "the prosecutor told the jury in a courtroom packed with U.S. marshals. prosecutors, investigators and several friends of the defen­dants. 
The courthouse was ringed by federal and city police. U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy told the anonymous jury, "All of us together are about to start on a great adventure." 
The prosecution tried to link the Egyptian-born Abouhalima directly to the bomb-making, saying his shoe was found with a sulfuric acid burn on it. But in his opening statement. Abouhalima's defense attorney. Hassen Ibn Abdellah, asked the jury if it was not possible to get sulfur on a shoe by stepping on a cigarette. 
The prosecutor said Ajaj. a Palestinian. entered this coun­try with a false Swedish pass­port and "a terrorist's library," including bomb-making man­uals, notebooks and cassettes. He was in jail at the time of the explosion, serving six months for immigration fraud. 
Defense lawyer Austin Campriello said Ajaj used the materials when he went to fight against the Soviet Union and communism in Afghanistan. 
If convicted of conspiracy. the four men face a maximum penalty of life in prison without parole. Two other suspects are fugitives; a seventh has been severed from the trial for rea­sons that remain unclear. 
The trial is expected to last for the rest of the year. 
Abouhalima and Salameh are 
unindicted co-conspirators in 
another case in which 15 oth­ers have been charged in an elaborate scheme to topple the 
U.S. government through bombings, murders and kid­nappings around New York City. Among those charged with conspiracy is Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind Egyptian cleric who prosecu­tors say also inspired those ac­cused in the Trade Center bombing. 
The prosecutor described each man's alleged role and his ties to the three others: how the defendants bought and mixed chemicals to create the bomb and carried it into the Trade Center. 
Salameh, a Jordanian citizen of Palestinian descent. is ac­cused of renting the van. He reported it stolen the day be­fore the attack and was ar­rested while trying to claim the rental deposit. 
The prosecutor said a letter sent after the bombing to The New York Times "put America on notice that it was they who carried out this heinous crime and they would do it again if their demands were not met." 
The letter. which protested 
U.S. aid to Israel. "can undeni­ably be tied to this defendant: Nidal Ayyad,'' Childers said. 
The "telltale signs .. that Ayyad was the author included saliva on the envelope and a computer disk that Ayyad thought he had deleted, he said. 
Defense lawyer Atiq Ahmed said he would show Ayyad was a victim of "guilt by associa­tion." 
Ayyad. a chemical engineer born in Kuwait to Palestinian parents and a naturalized U.S. citizen. was arrested after in­vestigators found his business card when they arrested Salameh. 
day. . >be immedia COJlliilent. <>nl.,u ... ,~., were unable to 

...•. secure the area arQund one of the ,helicopters before the body of another unidentified American was seized by the Somalis~ The man•s body was dragged by ropes through the streets today by a group of jubilant Aidid supporters. It was not clear whether the sol· dier had been aboard one of helicopters, 
Happy Birthday, 
Christy 
and 
Cheers to another great year at Notre Dame! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Jimmy, David, and "His Nibbs" 


Happy 21st Birthday 
LISA! 
love, Mom&Dad 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
South Mrica: Civil vvar threat 
Election opponents say time is running out 
By TOM COHEN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG. South Africa 
Fear of a government domi­nated by Nelson Mandela 's African National Congress has created an unlikely black-and­white alliance that is threaten­ing everything from strikes to civil war. 
So far. the pro-apartheid whites and conservative blacks have been helpless to stop re­forms spearheaded by President F:w. de Klerk and the ANC. the nation's leading black group and likely winner of South Africa's first free election next April 27. 
The holdouts have boycotted political talks. challenged nego­tiated agreements in court and threatened to take up arms. all to no avail. 
Parliament last month ap­proved bills giving blacks a gov­erning role for the first time. ignoring the cries of "Traitor!" from right-wing whites. 
But efforts continue to get the outsiders back aboard the ne­gotiating process. Analysts con­sider them able and willing to wage an effective terrorist cam­paign even if they are too weak to carry out a full-scale civil war. 
"I don't think they have many options open to them." said Tom Lodge. a political studies professor at the University of the Witwatersrand. "The capacity of any of these organi­zations to mobilize people in opposition to government initia­tives is pretty limited." 
The Concerned South Africans Group. known as COSAG. comprises former en­emies. The right-wing 
Conservative Party and other white pro-apartheid groups have joined Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Zulu-dominated Inkatha Freedom Party and KwaZulu black homeland. along with the nominally inde­pendent Bophuthatswana and Ciskei black homelands. 
They all seek autonomous territories where they can be free of domination by the ANC and its ally. the South African Communist Party. 
The ANC and de Klerk. ex­pected to play leading roles in the next government. say they want COSAG to have a role shaping the country's future. 
De Klerk supports giving strong powers to federal states -a form of the autonomy sought by the outsiders -but he and the ANC reject ethnic or racial-based territories. 
Still. Mandela said Sunday his group was studying a right­wing proposal for a region dominated by Afrikaners. the Dutch-descended settlers of South Africa. As long as they remained the majority of the region's population. the Afrikaners would likely be able to set policies preserving their language and culture. 
The so-called "white right" is considered the greatest threat to national stability. White males have compulsory military training. and right-wing groups are well-armed in light weaponry. 
Though Afrikaner leaders claim large segments of the well-armed military and police would join their fight. little evi­dence supports that. 
Whites voted almost 2-1 last year in favor of de Klerk's dis­mantling of apartheid. While many whites in the security forces hold conservative views. they so far appear unlikely to jeopardize their jobs and com­fortable lifestyles by joining a guerrilla war. 
White police showed their loyalty two years ago when they fired on fellow armed whites trying to disrupt a presidential speech in the right-wing stronghold of Ventersdorp. Three protesters died. 
"You can't fight a civil war without an army," Lodge, the professor. said of COSAG. And unless political violence that has killed thousands of blacks can be moved out of black townships, "it doesn't seriously inconvenience those people who have power." 
Syria: They can't obstruct Israeli-PLO accord 
By VICTORIA GRAHAM 
Associated Press Writer 

UNITED NATIONS 
Syria told the General Assembly Monday that it would not obstruct the Israeli­Palestinian accords but would not prevent angry Palestinians from criticizing it. 
Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk al-Shara said the most serious threat to the peace process "are the Israeli attempts to give the impression that peace has been achieved after signing this agreement and that the international com­munity. particularly Arab coun­tries. have to behave accord­ingly." 
Israel. meanwhile. reaped more benefits from the accord Monday. re-establishing diplo­matic ties with Cambodia and Burkino Faso. 
And Foreign Minister Rashid Abdullah al-Nuaimi of the United Arab Emirates wel­comed the agreement as "a positive beginning and a first step toward a just. comprehen­sive and durable settlement." 
President Hafez al-Assad of Syria has made no secret of his displeasure that the PLO-Israel agreements were reached in secret bilateral contacts. excluding Syria and other Arab parties to the Mideast peace process. 

UNIVERSITY SERVICE 
Only Minutes From Campus 

UNO-VEN 
17955 S.R. 23/Ironwood 
RODUCTS 
277.wl970 

~---------------~r---------------,
Lupto5qts.Ch~vr~noil $129511 '"T':une...Up 1E
1 2.Front End Lubncauon I 1 I I VJ.L4 13.0il Filter I Includes· 14.Check & Fill Brake Fluid ~;;~:;,:;~;~I I · Starting I IS.lnspect All Suspension & Steenng t'arts I 11 Pl gs I ~ I6.Check Windshield Washer Level I I ' U t I rwitJ p.Check Coolant 1 12.Adjust Timing a I IB.Check Differential I IJ Ad· C b I ~ 19.Check & Fill Power Steering Fluid II · JUSt . a~ .=·
orator$ 3995 I......... 

llO.Check Transmission Fluid 1 1 (where applicable) 1 lll.Check & Inflate Tires I I Coupon expores!0/31/93 I .. 1 12.1nspect Parking, Tail, Turn & Brake Lights .J L Yaru .~"¥~k: ExiTa .J '7~
..________________ ---------------~·· 
We employ A.S.E. Certified Master Mechanics 
l'he University ofNotre Dame Warmly Welcomes 
Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
Executive Vice President of 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
and Alumnus of 
The University of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on October 6, 1993 at the University Club, Main Lounge from 6 -8 pm and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities at Chase. 

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK 
I I I • ' ~ · I ' • f ' ' ' 


BUSINESS 
Tuesday, October 5, 1993 Page7 


.
Jo security affects labor unions 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Business Writer 
The dramatic decline in labor union membership and its correlation with a drop in hourly wages and in job secu­rity contributed to a stalemate in the area of collective bar­gaining, according to Thomas Kochan, Leaders of Manufacturing Professor and George Maverick Bunker Professor at MIT's Sloan School of Management. 
Kochan concentrated on the economic climate over the last decade and its effects on the class system and labor man­agement relations. during his lecture titled "Options for the Future of National Labor­Management Policy, 
He proposed that these conditions might be improved through the installment of policies which would encour­age employee participation in company management. 
"There's a need for changes in the laws which would allow business firms to experiment with any and all forms of cooperative management and grant employees to opt for or decline union membership without risking job security," said Kochran. 
Kochran also added that more evidence is needed to determine which forms and combinations of employee par­ticipation would be most effec­tive and mo·st efficient. 
Kochan proposed that em­players and employees should cooperatively establish perfor­mance standards and a system for maintaining worker health and safety. "We've got to real­ly unleash the power of the work force." 
This he said would reduce 
the need for government 
regulations regarding em­
ployee benefits and safety. 
Kochan concluded his lec­
ture calling for a modernized 
and flexible process of em­
ployee training, which would 
enable workers to maintain 
their employability. "The 
improved, modernized train­
ing would update the employ­
ees' skills and maintain their 
employability," he stated. 
Kochan is also a member of 
President Clinton's 
Commission on the Future of 
Management Relations. 
The lecture was sponsored 
by the College of Business 
Administration and is part of 
the John Donnelly Lecture 
Series in Management. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Rudy brings new life to Corby's and bar scene 
By MICHAEL WORKMAN 
Business Writer 
Corby's bar was looking for a change, and what they got was a Notre Dame walk­on named Rudy. 
Last September, TriStar pictures approached Rosario and Maria Mittiga, tHe owners of the then called Cap n' Cork, and asked them if they would be interested in making some changes to their tavern for the shooting of the movie "Rudy." 
"It could not have come at a better time," said Rosario Mittiga. "We had just received a letter from the lawyer of a local chain of liquor stores. They told us that they had the name Cap 'n Cork registered since 1963, and that we were going to have to change our name. A week later the pro­ducer and director told us that they wanted to use our place to film Rudy." 
According to Rosario. Tri-Star was trying to recreate a popular Notre Dame bar from the 1970s called Corby's. He said that Tri­Star liked the high ceilings of the Cap n' Cork because it would be easy to set up the tall movie lights. "We only needed to give them a day and they came in. put up pic­tures and painted murals," he added. 
When asked about any expenses incurred by the bar for the new changes. Mittiga ex­plained,"They paid for everything. I only had to pay for my lawyer and the registra­tion of the new name." 
When Rosario and Maria Mittiga took over the Cap n' Cork three and a half years ago, it was primarily a local saloon that attracted South Bend regulars. They had been looking for a way to appeal to a younger crowd, and are happy with the results of their conversion to Corby's. "We love the students," said Rosario. "It has been nice to have a young crowd in here. We like it much better." 
Jim Jones . a Corby's bartender. says that he is glad that the change took place. "Overnight we became a college bar. It 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Since the renovation of Cap n' Cork by TriStar Pictures in 1992, Corby's has become a favorite night spot for students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
was like a miracle. The change brought in Thursday at 10:30 we'll be packed. We'll a younger. more fun crowd. I used to come have close to 600 college kids on some into the Cap n· Cork before working here, nights." so I've seen it both ways. I've really The lone inconvenience with the change enjoyed the change." recalled Rosario is the fact that he must 
now pay special attention to making sure 
Business for the bar has definitely students are of age. "The only problem is improved with the change to Corby's. with ID's. We have a police officer that According to Rosario. "We have seen two checks at the door so it is not too bad. All to three times more people in here on a in all I think it is better now. We like hav­regular basis." Jones added. "On a ing the students. and we like Notre Dame." 
Moscow turmoil could stabilize business climate 
By STEFAN FATSIS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Red tape, corruption and political insta­bility have been big deterrents for American companies hoping to cash in on the collapse of communism in Russia. 
While recent turmoil in Moscow should increase anxiety, the collapse of a revolt against President Boris Yeltsin could speed economic reform in a land still perceived as a limitless investment opportunity. 
"From the perspective of long-term reform. it's a very positive development. There's nothing worse for business than chaos," said Richard Ericson. director of the Harriman Institute at Columbia University. 
On Monday. Yeltsin ordered a military crackdown against hard-liners at the White House in Moscow, forcing hundreds of opponents to surrender. 
"Whether it's good for democracy in the long run or not ... I think it's definitely good for business," Ericson said. 
So far. Russia has failed to gain much 
U.S. private investment-only about $400 million, compared with $1.5 billion in post-
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
communist Hungary. 
Even the former Russian republic of Kazakhstan. thanks to relative political and economic stability despite a lack of gov­ernment reform. has managed a series of agreements with major U.S. oil companies. 
Beginning with political turmoil-espe­cially the confrontation between Yeltsin and the parliament. which has hindered the president's political and economic reforms -obstacles to U.S. investment have been big. 
They include the virtual absence of com­mercial and property laws. unclear tax requirements and regulations governing Western businesses, and struggles between local and central governments. 
The inability to easily convert the Russian ruble into other currencies also has been a disincentive. 
Experts on Russia said they hope the end of the rebellion could speed reforms. 
"The political deadlock has been broken ... so the prospects there for better com­mercial law and more stability politically are good," said Anthony Jones. a Northeastern University professor and president of Cambridge East-West Consulting. 
711/93 811/93 911/93 1011193 11/1/93 
October 4, 1993 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
3675 3625 3575 3525 3475 3425 3375 
Business officials in Germany. Russia's biggest trading partner. also saw the devel­opments as favorable. "For Russia. eco­nomic stability is absolutely essential. The power struggle was not productive." said Peter Danilow. a member of German East­West Trade Committee. 
The soonest legal reforms could begin is December. when Yeltsin has called parliamentary elections. But some Russia experts are less optimistic enough change will occur to create a U.S. business stam­pede. 
Marshall Goldman. deputy director of Harvard University's Russian Research Center, said while Yeltsin's crackdown could produce more law and order. there is no guarantee instability won't continue. 
"What makes it more complicated than ever is we didn't know what to do before­hand ... and now given this chaos it certain­ly has to make you more hesistant" to invest. he said. 
Asked what course American businesses might take. Goldman said: "''d go to China. or even Eastern Europe." 
Despite caution. overall foreign invest­ment in Russia has soared in the last two years. 
WASHINGTON 
Clinton adminiStration officials nr,om,iSEid to ~ncourage ~hlstle~ at the savings ·· 

I'-'"""""'  
J  \j \  ....  
..Mf" rv  v  
td  
"  




VIEWPOINT 

ORAMAT!C! B&fOI<£ 7l?AD& 8AR­t<J&RS UI&R& taU&I<E{;3 ONt..Y 50 YOU'!<& Af}U/..7 M&N SttOI<W. 8I.JT THANKS P!<OMOT!NG TO AM&RICANAOVEK!l5/NG ANP FAIRN&93~ 
PROMOTION, AU 7HAT'5 ()IAN?£/Jl 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Ed.itor Business Manager 
Kevin llardm•n Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .................................jake Peters OTS Director................................Brend.n Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habtych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcncrs and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readcr11. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
Under Jn'1 plan, 
~ery Mer1ean 
woll1c\. carry a 
hea1th-'?ecufii'y
1D card.. 
unarme aware of it. 
Nor will gun control reduce the number of guns on the streets. Where I live (near the East Side of Buffalo. New York). I can walk a few blocks to the Bailey· Fillmore district and talk to a guy named Johnson. Forty bucks and a day after (perhaps an hour) I could be holding a .25 caliber Raven semi-auto­matic pistol. And the gun-grab­bers who took away America's legally owned guns couldn't stop me if I chose to kill or rob with my new toy. Sadly. the "unashamed racists. unmed­icated psychotics, hot tempers and lax consciences" didn't get their guns from gun shops. They get them from scum like Johnson. 
What's worse for you is that not only can you not legally take away my rights. you can't ever get guns off the streets. New guns keep pouring in ille­gally. It would be easier to track down every last atom of Julius Caesar's last breath. Et tu Brute? And I know it wouldn't stop with handguns. Next would come hunting rilles. Then shotguns. BB guns. Bow and arrow. The slingshot. 
weapon to feel strong. I'm a level-headed civilian whose prime directive is seH-preserva­tion. 
The real solution? Wage a more intense war on drugs and violent crime. not on my rights. Stop the revolving doors of the nonsensical prison systems. Lock criminal chumps up for the time they deserve. not for two months and parole. I wish all the do-gooders like de Aguiar and seH-righteous mom­mies like Hillary Clinton would concentrate their efforts on me guess: quadrupling the police forces in ban hunting too, right? 

America.

Waiting periods, despite 
Costly? Yes-but my rights

their apparent logic, prevent 
are priceless. I'm not going tolaw abiding citizens from get­let a criminal take my life orting guns in emergency situa­the life of a loved one. People

tions. Case in point: the LA 
like de Aguiar are almost asriots. Shopkeepers were robbed bad as the gun suppliers andblind and people died unneces­the ones pulling the triggers:sarily. Put de Aguiar in such a both take away a good citizen's 

situation-! guarantee he would 
right to live in a nation wherebe praying for a gun. So would freedom -only when held sov­

I. if my gun was taken away 
ereign · is the bedrock of ourand I was left with not truly existence. Wake up. de Aguiar:effective means to defend my you may be able to take away

wife, family or my own life 
my right. but the gun is stayingagainst an assailant. I'm not an with me.

individual with "flaccid self­
JASON MAIER

esteem" who needs to carry a 
P.O. Box Q • Observer. Viewpoint.1 @ nd.edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the recent Inside column con­cerning gun control legislation (The Observer. Sept. 30). An analytical approach to the issue indicates that the writer­Viewpoint Editor Rolando de Aguiar-is nothing more than a powerfully nauseating do-good­er who fails to see that his arguments are highly illogical. I encourage him to step away from his seH-appointed role as America's savior and lend an ear as I delineate some com­monsense. 
I am an advocate and mem­her of the National Rifle Association. Let me explain why. There is a fundamental flaw in American thought on the gun control issue. Many individuals believe that legisla­tion against my constitutional right to bear arms will enable our law makers to put the brakes on violent crime. I am here to tell all that this is not the case. 
The author has failed to do his homework. for if he had he would have found that nowhere in America has gun control of any sort reduced or even stabi­lized violent crime rates. This statistical fact can be confirmed by police records across the nation. No gun law (an explana­tion is forthcoming) will ever reduce the rate of violent crime 
(i.e. by reducing the number of gun crimes). but the actual per­centages indicate that in most major cities violent crime has continued to escalate, despite gun control measures. 
One particular facet of crimi­nal psychology that has been ignored by liberal democrat buffoons like Bill Clinton is the 
DOONESBURY 
fact a wants to kill. he will find a way to kill. Even if he was unable to get a gun, he would more than likely pick up an axe. Or a kitchen knife. Or maybe he'd hurl a folding chair at someone. Will these things be banned next? The point I'm trying to make is that guns don't kill people. People kill people. 
Moreover, the overwhelm­ing majority of gun related crimes are perpetrated with illegally owned and obtained guns. Stemming the legal sale of guns will only harm me. a law-abiding citizen who has never dreamt of being a crimi­nal. 
In most states. people must have a reason to be awarded the necessary permit for carry­ing a handgun. Business own­ers have that need. living in my city accentuates that need. A criminal can't buy a gun from a gun shop. because he isn't going to get a permit for the purpose of knocking off gas sta­tions. Taking away my right won't stop him. but rather it will encourage him: it's safer for him to break into a house. rape, deal drugs and kill when we Iawful Americans are 
''The churches must learn humility as well as teach it." George Bernard Shaw Writer 
~-----~--------------~-­
-~---~----~----------~-­
ACCENT 
.. 

Tuesday, October 5, 1993 page 9 
The End ofan Empire 
Lenin's Tomb: A Tale of Transition 
REVIEW BETH CASSANOVA 
' 
"Lenin's Tomb: The Last Days of the Soviet Empire" by David Remnick Random House, New York, 1993 576pages $25.00 
"It was said then and is said 
even now that the Russians 
know little or nothing of civil 
society. How strange then that 
so many were willing to give up 
their lives to defend it." 
In "Lenin's Tomb". David 
Remnick. a Washington Post re­
porter. follows the fall of the 
Soviet Union from its first wob­
bles to its final collapse. 
He describes a country where 
calves in Chernobyl are born 
without heads and young peo­
ple make phonograph records 
out of Xrays. Coal miners 
crawl four hours a day on their 
own time through flooded 
shafts to reach their work sites. 
It is a place where politicians 
speak Newspeak and children 
are trained to turn in their dis­
sident parents. 
But there are also many 
heroes who. in their own way. 
have protected civil society. 
Dmitri Yurasov. an archivist for 

the Soviet Supreme Court. se­that he wanted to " ... pay spe­ferent things: capitalism. social­the sound of military boots on cretly researched the cial attention to the tragic fate ism. and even a return to the stairs; in the next. coal min­disappearance of men and of our peasantry. which paid Stalinist dictatorship. The ers striking together for a bar women during the Great the price in blood for the crimi­problems go beyond bread of soap and a cut of meat. 
ror; he recorded his work nality of the Stalinist regime ... lines. 
about 200.000 index cards History has never known such a "Lenin's Tomb" is a tremen­he was fired. concentrated hatred toward His research and analysis are dous undertaking, but Remnick Ke1mn1ck traces the struggle man." }air and balanced; and they are pulls it off with style: both the Soviet common people to "Lenin's Tomb"contains a lot underscored by Remnick's gift content and the presentation -•.,,.,..., the parts of history hid­of information and Remnick for description. The combina­demand respect. He makes a by the government. In an conveys it with clarity and tion keeps the reader hooked valuable contribution to a coun­view with Remnick. objectivity. He describes a on a history that is both terrible try which knew little or nothing Yakovlev. chief advi­country in transition_. where and inspiring. In one chapter of its modern history until a few 
to Gorbachev. commented confused citizens fight for dif-he tells of midnight arrests and years ago. 
shleman and Dante enlighten students at Hesburgh 
volume of his work will be pub­mance artist. who will read illustrating the poem. In conjunction with the exhib­lished in 1994. from his own work Nov. 11 at Sixteenth-century editions on it, the Oct. 29-30 academic Poet and translator Clayton Currently he is professor of 4:30 p.m. in Room 127 of display will include examples conference will examine three will open a series of English at Eastern Michigan Nieuwland Hall on campus. from several of the most of the most intensively cultivat­••ict11on and poetry readings by University in Ypsilanti and famous Renaissance printers ed areas of contemporary American writers today serves as editor and publisher ••• and publishers. providing a Dante studies: Dante's poetics. 
p.m. in the Hesburgh of "Sulfur." an international The work of the 13th-and wide variety of book sizes, page Dante's minor works, and Auditorium. magazine of poetry and poetics. 14th -century Italian poet Dante designs. typographical charac­Dante reception. Some of the The readings are free and According to Stephen will be featured this fall at the ters and illustrations-a leading scholars in the the field en to the public. Eshleman Fredman. associate professor of University of Notre Dame. panoramic perspective on the will participate. including pro­
read from his recent trans­English at Notre Dame, "Trike" An exhibit. "Renaissance material history of the early fessors Giuseppe Mazzotta from of Peruvian poet Cesar is one of the most powerful Dante at Notre Dame (1472-modern book. Yale University, Albert Ascoli 's work "Trilce." He will works of poetry of the 20th cen­1629)." will be on display Oct. The Zahm Dante Collection from Northwestern University, 
o conduct a workshop on tury. "Eshleman has dedicated 4-Dec. 15 at the Hesburgh was assembled by Rev. John A. and Kevin Brownlee from the ..-.nPlrrv and translation at noon a major portion of his career to Memorial Library. and a Zahm. who from 1873 until his University of Pennsylvania. dnesday in the library confronting and recreating conference titled "Dante Now: death in 1921 served Notre The exhibit will take place Vallejo's unique poetic vision in Current Trends in Dante Dame variously as professor. under the sponsorship of the His visit is jointly sponsored a brand-new English idiom. Studies" is scheduled for Oct. vice president, and provincial of University Libraries at Notre 
Notre Dame's romance lan­making Vallejo accessible to 29-30 on campus. the Congregation of Holy Cross. Dame and the Center for s and English depart­English -speaking audiences." Highlighted by Notre Dame's Best known as a scientist who Renaissance Studies at the . the College of Arts and he says. Rev. John A. Zahm Dante trained some of Notre Dame's Newberry Ubrary. The confer­fellow's office. the Helen Works by Eshleman. as well Collection. the exhibit will fea­finest scholars. Zahm also was ence is sponsored by Notre gg Institute. and Poet and as Vallejo. are available at the ture 40 Renaissance editions of a distinguished Dantophile. Dame's Italian studies program. . Inc. Hammes Book Store. Dante's masterpiece, "The In addition to the Zahm Dante the Medieval Institute. the Paul Eshleman received the 1979 The series of readings is Divine Comedy." Collection, a rare and beautiful M. and Barbara Henkels ational Book Award and a funded in part by Poets & Included in the exhibit will be first edition of the poem also Visiting Scholars Series. the Prize in 1989. both for Writers Inc .. through major a 1477 Venetian edition, the will be a part of the Notre English department, the on. He also has pub­grants from the Lila Wallace­first to present the poem with Dame exhibit. on loan from the romance languages and litera­more than twenty collec­Reader's Digest Fund and the commentary; a 1481 Florentine Newberry Library in Chicago. tures department. the Program 
of his own poetry. most Lannan Foundation. The next edition that includes copper­The complete exhibit will go on of Liberal Studies. and the -..,,..~'" Hotel Cro-Magnon by writer in the series will be plate engravings; and a 1484 display April 15-June 15 at the Center for Continuing ............"" Sparrow Press. A new David Antin. poet and perfor-edition featuring 68 woodcuts Newberry Ubrary. Education. 

Tuesday, October 5, 1993

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
Montana out for indefinite period due to injured hamstring 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 
Joe Montana's status for next week is unclear. one day after the Kansas City Chiefs quarter­back was removed in the sec­ond quarter with a hamstring injury. 
"He could be out a week." coach Marty Schottenheimer said Monday. "He could be out a month. I just have no idea. He's got a pulled hamstring. I'll let father time address that and see what unfolds." 
Montana did light stretching Monday and was not limping nearly as badly as he was after Sunday's 24-9 victory over the Los Angeles Raiders. 
The Chiefs (3-1) play the win­less Cincinnati Bengals next week at Arrowhead Stadium. That could be a good opportu­nity to rest the 37-year-old quarterback. with the following game at AFC West rival San Diego. 
Montana had thrown two touchdown passes and had the Chiefs driving when he pulled his left hamstring while going out of bounds with Aaron Wallace in pursuit. 
He was replaced by Dave Krieg, who could become one of the busiest backups in the NFL this season. Montana. inactive most of his last two years at San Francisco, injured his wrist in the season opener at Tampa and did not play the next week. 
In that game. with Krieg 
going all the way. the troubled Oilers prevailed 30-0 for what remains their only victory. Now. with a second disabling injury in three starts. Montana has raised questions about his durability. 
In the three games Montana has started. the Chiefs are 3-0. He has hit 42 of 66 passes for 587 yards and five touchdowns and had not been intercepted. 
"It's usually the wide receivers and running backs 
who get those hamstrings," Montana said. "I don't have a big enough one to pull." 
Montana admitted the injuries are more than a nui­sance. 
"It's aggravating to me, one little thing after another." he said after Sunday's game. "So hopefully I'm getting them all out of the way." 
"Joe knows this offense," said Willie Davis. who has become Montana's favorite receiver. "He perfected this offense." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from !2 p.m. to 3 r,.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All clasSifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cen" per charact.r per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  $700/wk cannery workers; $4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish- For sale: brand new 12-speed Peugot bike. Call 273-0582.  Wanted: One Gen Ad tix for Pitt and SIX for BC!!I!I Call Colleen  I need 4 Pitt GA's. Call Joan at 618-288-3502 after 4 or 618-656­ DESPERATELY NEED ND-USC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  
ing Industry now hiring for next  x2785 soonl Will pay $$$$$$$$  0057 ext. 253 before 4.  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  
summer. 11.000 openings. No exp.  87 Chevy Cavalier 4 sp. 4 cyl.  
 
Typing  necessary. Free rm. & bd. These  $2900 or b.o. 293-6787  NEED PITT STD. X4022  Need Pitt GAs  

287-4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 
2n-7406 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259-8684. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS: LONDON MAY 18-JUNE 19, jobs go fastl Employment Alaska. 1­206-323-2672 
Love kids? Would you like to help protect the environment? Join a one-a-month "Kids for Saving Earth"Ciub sponsored by a local elementary school. Male counselors for 4-5th grade Earth Crusaders: ecology, bicycling, hiking and adventure course program. Call Bill evenings 272-4850 
Floral pullout couch. 259-3023 
ONE WAY TICKET TO SAN ANTONIO GOING THROUGH CINCINNATI AND ATLANTA LEAVES THE EVENING OF OCT 22 CALL X 1316 
AHOY MATIESII NEED 2 PITT AND 1 USC (STU OR GA) FOR OLD SHIPMATES COMING TO TOWN. BOBX4529 
I NEED ONE BC TIX & MANY PITT TIX-STUDENT OR GA 271-7047 
MBA STUDENT SEEKS 2 TICK­ETS FOR FAMILY TO USC GAME. 
Please call Dave 273-0621 
I need 2 Pitt tix--Student or GA's. Call Andy at x1750. 
HELP Mother Theresa needs 2 USC tix. Will trade 2 BC tix. x4340 
Will trade USC student ticket for a Pitt student ticket. Please call Mike at 273-2059. 
Have 2 Rudy premiere tickets, reg­ular, not student. 271-5618. 
SWM seeks fun-loving person, 18­35, smoker OK to sell 4 Pitt GAs. Call Jim at 287-0889. 
PITTTIX NEED 2 GA'S OR MARR'D & 1 STUD. JEFF 1612 

CLASSES IN  PLEASE CALL RICH X-4-4499  NEED USC GA'S FOR MY PAR­ 
ART,BIO,BUEC,HIST,SOC-TRAV­NEEDED: Artist for commercial pro- ONE WAY TICKET TO  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  ENTS. CALL JIM @ 289-6648.  
EL ject. Newspaper ads, b/w drawings.  SAN ANTONIO GOING  I need 2 pairs of PITT GA's  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  
IRELAND,SCOT,ENG,FRANCE. Great resume experience! The  THROUGH CINCINNATI  call Tim 237-1012$$$$$  
ROME-JUNE 12-JULY 11 TRAVEL Works Bar & Grill 501 N Niles Ave  AND ATLANTA  3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­ 
IN FAA, SWITZ,GER,ITALY­237-9757  LEAVES THE EVENING OF  9309  
CLASSES IN  OCT 22 CALL X 1316  NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT.  
LIT,ITALIAN,HIST,SOC. MEETING RELIABLE AND HARD WORKING  Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers.  CALL JIM @ 289-6648.  
OCT 11, 6:30 PM CARROLL INDIVIDUALS NEEDED TO MAKE  CALL JOE@ X1613  Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta  
HALL(SMC). EXTRA CASH SELLING UNIVER­ (404)396-8715.  HAVE:2 PITT GA'S  
SITY RELATED  AIRLINE TICKET, FALL BREAK  DESPERATELY need 2 PITT GA's  NEED:2 BC GA'S  
The new members of T-SHIRTS. APPLY AT:  ONE-WAY TWA, M or F, So. Bend  Call Sharon 282-2965  4 SALE-FSU STUD TIC. BEST  ANY DEALS? -KEVIN X3240  
IRISH ACCENT are: LINDA'S FLOWER MARKET  to Albuquerque via St. Louis.  OFFER Katie X4067  
Elizabeth Kernan 1635 EDISON ROAD  Lvs. Fri. Oct. 22, $100.  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889  NEED ANY BC TIX  
Digger Plutnicki 272-0902.  Chris x4107.  (MARK)  I NEED 1 BC GA FOR MY MOM  HAVE USC STUD TIX  
Thanks to all those who  WHO'S COMING FROM WASH. II  PETE:237 -0659  
tried out. Attention -ACDC Students. Part time baby sitter needed for 5 month ILOST & FOUND I old and 4 yr old. $5.50 per hr. Must have own transportation. Call  TICKETS I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  $WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ NEED 2 PITT GA'S CALL (614) 459-0074 COLLECT AFTER 4 PM OR CALL SHEILA AT x4072  BETH-x3620 NEED 2 FEMALE STUD. TIX FOR PITT. JAY X1534  $$$ Need 1 FSU Stud. or GA $$$ Eric 4-1251  
Lea 272-5029.  TIXS.272-6306  
Lost: Copy Card. Left on the sec- Pitt Stu. Tckt.  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2tix  
and floor at noon on Sept. 30. Says MAGICIANS-willing to donate 1/2  Best Offer  NEED 1 (MALE) STUDENT TIX  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  
"Fraser". Please return to library hour of time to entertain disadvan- ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  Manuel 4-0505  (MY NEPHEW'S A H.S. SEN &  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  
Lost and Found. !aged children on 10/16 from 9-1 :30  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  LOVES ND) FOR PITT. AMY 4252  
call4-2131  JANE AT 1-800-264-3278.  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  
LOST: J-Crew Barn Jackel (Olive  $Need Pitt GAs$  Call Frank or John  
green) btw. 9-22 & 9-27. Please SPRING BREAK '94 -SELL TRIPS,  FSU TIX NEEDEDIIIIIIII  Angie 273-5805  PLEASE HELP! I NEED 1 GA OR  1-800-749-5975  
contact Mike @x1166 EARN CASH & GO FREEl!!  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  STUDEN1 TICKET FOR USC.  Will trade DISNEY tickets  
Student Travel Services is now hir- PLEASEII  CALL KELLY @4270  
ing campus reps.WANTED Call1-800-648-4849.  ND vs USC -Need tickets for  NEED 8, YES 8, PITT GAS, MIKE AT 271-8641  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616.  
10/23 game.Chris Marks  SELLING-FSU GA's  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! FOR RENT  800-523-3139.  I NEED stud tix to USC & PITT  Call Dan @273-0986  NEED 2 USC GA'S KEVIN X1215  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any  por favor bitte se vous please  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8 Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ combination. $Call Amy 2658  call Josh 234-2853  I need USC GAs  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS Private.  AJ x1432  I NEED 3-4 USC GA'S X1781  
& PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, 257-9101  I NEED PITT TICKETS, GA PREF­ 
JAMAICA. PANAMA CITYI1-800­ ERED call Tim at x1225  HELP! I need Pitt GA's-Steve 1217  I NEED TIXS FOR PITT, USC AND  PLEASE Ill I NEED FSU STU TIX.  

678-63861  LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEYI\!  THERESA X2756  
SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA  NEED FSU TIX. Call collect 215­ CALL AARON @ 271-2908  
CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ 539-8421 or 215-362-1843 alter  Need Pit Tixll  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ PUS $225. M0.272-6306  8826 AFTER 5 PM  5pm  Jack4-1502  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  $$$$$$$$$$  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the  I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY  NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S.  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  MIKE x2292  MUST HAVEII CALL 272-7233.  Need2 USC GA  
Career employment available. No  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ FOR SALE*••••FOR SALE.....  Max x1088  
experience necessary. For more  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235.  PITT AND USC GAs  FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES.  2 MARRIED STUDENT BOOKS  
Information caii1-206-634-Q468  EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  WANTED FOR RICH  277-1659.  1 STUDENT BOOK FOR ALL  I need 5 Pitt tix. GA or Student.  
ext.C5584  BUS. 232-8444.  ALUMNI $$$232-1348  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC &  REMAINING GAMES .....***********KEVIN 271 ~8641  call x 1915  
GREEKS & CLUBS  FOR SALE  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X221 0 DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  Will trade 2 BC for 2 USC. Call Sean@ 271-n04  PERSONAL  
RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST  WISH: SEE PITT VS. ND NEED 2  PITT,USC,FSU,BC STUD TIX FOR  
ONE WEEKI For your fraternity,  8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE  PITT GA'S DONALD x1724.  SALE X2975. LVE MESS. AND  Need 2 USC GA's  
sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for  Orange County to Chicago 10/21  BEST OFFER  Will pay $100 ea  *** NEW *** NEW *** NEW ***  
yourselfl And a FREET-SHIRT just  Chicago to Orange County 10/24  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME  x1868  COLOR COPIES &  
for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75.  Only $333/each round trip  GAME. MIKE @ 1724  TRANSPARENCIES at  

Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643 x1515 all hours 
Need 1 BC stud. tickt. Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261 Heidi 273-2661 $$$$ 
ALUMNUS SEEKING 2 PITT GA'sll 
00¢ THE COPY SHOP 000 in the LaFortune Student Center 

ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fish- WILL PAY BIG$$. CALL SUSAN  
aries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA  Helpl  Need 3 Pitt GAs  AT4-1285.  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ 
more per month on fishing vessels  $30-50 & Get Best Roomsl Prices  STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  Katie 273-6324 $$$$  agement and security to the pre­ 
or in canneries. Many companies  Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
provide transportation and room &  days includes12 meals $2791  GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ time mom and loving dad; married  
board. No experience necessary.  Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  1429  Need 4 Pitt Tix  FLA ST STU. TIX FOR SALE I  12 years; promises that your child  
Male or Female. For more informa- Cancun from Chicago $439,  Preferablly married  SERIOUS $$$$ ONLY  will have every opportunity. Please  
lion call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Call 273-6033  CALL CHARLES AT x 1 055  call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­ 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII  West $239, Day1ona Room w/ Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162,  ....................................  Needed: 1 Pitt G.A., my life counts  8195.  
Individuals and Student  (W) 201-992-8700  My little brother loves ND football  on ill X1305, Scott  Sophomores Ill  
Organizeations wanted to promote  DEPENDABLE 1986 PLYMOUTH  and has never seen a game and  
the Hottest Spring Break  DUSTER CALL HOLLY 271-8940  will be here for FSU ... please call  
.......  Destinations, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus Programs  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  Need 1 USC G.A.! Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s  Mike if you have tix. 271-1706.........................................  PITT stud. ticket FOR SALE leave name,#, offer x2673  Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad,  
1-800-327-6013  SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  Call Karen at 4-4987.  laughter and music in a country  
CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND  I need PITT GA's Please HELP!  home for your baby.  Please call  
VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  NEED 2 FSU GA's  4-1103Greg  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172  
LOOKING FOR MOTHER'S  NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  FOR DAD'S BUSINESS FRIENDS  Selling 1 Pitt Stud-Pete @273­ any1ime.  
HELPER WHO ENJOYS CHIL­ MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  FROM FLORIDA WITH LOTS OF  NEED 2 USC GA's  5909-Leave name, #, offer.  
OREN. FLEX HAS (an afternoon &  284-5062  GREEN II $$$ IS NO OBJECT!  Will trade 2 BC stud's or  BERNIE:  
a couple of AM's). CALL 232-6755.  CALL DOUG X1067  1 BC & 1 FSU stud.  STUD TIXBOOK FOR SALE  THANKS FOR A WONDERFUL  
84 VW Rabbit 4-sale by generous  Chi-Chi 1200  CALL@ 273-3140  WEEKEND, YOU RADICAL  
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  local alum call 273-4868  NEED 2 BYU TIX!  6-8 PM  TWISTER.  I'M LOOKING FOR­ 
BRUNO'S NEEDS Driversllll  PLS CALL (801)484-7108  We will purchase at handsome  WARD TO HAVING THAT PIZZA  
PT for Campus Deliveries.  carpet, new, bound,  price four seats together for the  TRADE TICKETS:  WITH YOU.  
Call John 288-3220  sky blue, $85, 12x10  Need 2 GAs for any home game  Florida State game. Pis. call (800)  4 BYU FOR 4 USC.  LOVE,  
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  BrianT. @ 289-6648  Call Tim at 273-1757  457-0486.  CALL BOB (818) 793-9254.  RICHARD "GOMEZ".  

Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor  
The Notre Dame women's  
~----~,I.S.A.A. NATIONAL WOMEN'S SOCCER TOP20 >,~ __....,./·~ ' 1. North Carolina 1 0-0-0 2. Portland 8-1-0 3. Santa Clara 9-2-0 4. Ha~o~ ~1~ 5. Stanford 9-1-0 6. Notre Dame 1 0-1-0 7. Connecticut 9-2-0 8. William & Mary 6-2-1 9. Duke 7-3-0 10. Massachusetts 7-2-1 11. George-Mason 10-0-1 12. Cal-Berkeley 6-0-3 13. N. Carolina St. 5-3-1 ~it 14. Virginia 5-3-1 15. Wisc.-Madison 8-2-0 I 16. Washington St. 5-2-2 @: 17. Florida lnt'l 6-0-1 18. Tulsa 8-2-2 19. Cal-Santa Bar. 6-4-0 20. Dartmouth 5-1-0 The Observer/Brendan Re  

Soccer drops in rank 
soccer team dropped three spots to sixth place in the national rankings this week after losing 3-1 in overtime to Stanford University last Friday night. 
The 1 0-1 Irish had a fourteen game winning streak. which dated back to last year. snapped by the Cardinal. Stanford (9-1) climbed from ninth to fifth place in the poll. 
After being ranked 12th in the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America pre-sea­son poll. the squad needed only three weeks to rise nine spots to an unprecedented third place ranking. 
Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli said the ranking has no effect on his team. 
"I feel the same way going down in the poll as I did when we were going up." he said. "I don't think it is a reflection on the team." 
"It's actually a good thing," said junior midfielder Jodi Hartwig. "because our team doesn't feel like it has to be undefeated every time out. This takes a lot of pressure off." 
ST.IDWARD'S 
HALL FORUM 
PROF. LAWRENCE CUNNINGHAM CHAIRMAN, DEPT. OF THEOLOGY 
speaks on 
"THE AMERICAN CATHOLIC CHURCH AND THE VATICAN" 
Wednesday, October 6 7:00p.m. at St. Edwards Hall 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Adkisson 
continued from page 16 
Adkisson is boisterously appreciative of Berticelli's efforts. 
"Without Coach. this wouldn't have been possible." Adkisson says emphatically. "When I've had to make a decisions this season. he was the person who backed me up. who wanted me to do what was best for me and my family. He made it real clear that his door was always open whether it was to come back to talk or whatever." 
For the past two weeks. as 
· Notre Dame has played home games. Erin has packed the car on Friday evenings with all of the baby equipment. and head­ed east. Besides bottles and diapers. there's the playpen (which doubles as a crib on the road). strollers. toys and blan­kets-all of the help a six­month old needs to enjoy a two­hour soccer game. 
After the game. Kevin will hop in the car with Riley and Erin and head out to Chicago to spend as much time alone with them as he can. The couple is considering a semi-permanent move to South Bend. where 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volleyball 
continued from page 16 
This year. though. it may take more than inspiration to knock off the Irish. Over the past two weeks. Notre Dame has faced challenges from numerous non­ranked teams. and in each case has risen to the occasion to pull off the victory. 
One of the main reasons for the Irish success has been the increasingly solid play of senior middle blocker Molly Stark. who has been dominating op­ponents recently. 


GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT Friday, October 15 -Saturday, October 16 
8:00 p.m. (24 hours) 8:00 p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Planning: Graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to attend a one hour meeting Monday, October 11. 7:00-8:00p.m.. in the Fischer Graduate Community Center in order to help plan the retreat. 
Deadline: Reservations will be accepted until Monday, October 11. 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon at Fischer.Communit:y Center 631-8607. Cost $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks. 

0MPUS 
MINImY 
Erin and Riley would live until Kevin graduates in 1995. But for now. the weekly ritual. of packing up and going to Illinois for a day. will continue. 
"'When I go to see him on the 
weekend. Stark set personal bests on both nights with 17 kills. She also added a career high 15 total blocks against Western Michigan. For the week. Stark hit .494 with 43 kills and 27 total blocks. land­ing her MCC player-of-the-week honors. 
Coupled with the solid per­formance of freshman Jenny Birkner on the weekend. which saw her garner 29 kills. the Irish starting rotation has no weak links. 
Christy Peters is coming off two straight MVP performances in Irish tournaments. Janelle 
..._ 

weekend I can't think about how big he's gotten over the week because it will make me sad." Adkisson says. "'So I just enjoy him while I can." 
10.72 assist per game ratio. Julie Harris is first in hitting percentage at .349. and the jump serving of Brett Hensel and Nicole Coates is wreaking havoc with opposing defenses. 
Also stellar bench play from freshmen Kristina Ervin and Jen Briggs has added depth to the as both have steadi­


IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery • 271~1177 
pa-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
Second place 
P.W defends title against Farley tomorrow 
By CRISTINA CORONADO to go to the playoffs." DeLorenzo added. Lewis vs Knott Sports writer The Pyros are hoping to add a Knott Hall will face fourth­
Morrissey 
trounces Grace 
By WARREN JUNIUM 
Sports Writer 
Leading the Gold League ac­tion. No. 2 Morrissey defeated Grace 20-0 at Stepan Field. Morrissey. coming off a 6-0 de­fensive battle with Off-Campus. looked to air out the offense against the weak Grace de­fense. 

Starting quarterback Scott Taylor threw two touchdown passes for Morrissey. The first was a 40-yard pass late in the first half to senior Justin Kruer. and the second was a 25-yard bomb to Tom Fitzpatrick. 
"Penalties hurt us ... said se­nior fullback Paul Lopach. "We could have been even more impressive." 
Stanford 6. Flanner 6 
The powerhouse of the first week, Stanford. was stalled by 1Oth-ranked Flanner. "I am embarrassed by our play," said Stanford captain Chris Pollina. "It was due to the lack of prac­tice, but Flanner played us well." 
The game was a defensive battle on both sides. but each defense broke once and the other team capitalized. Stan­ford scored on a 15-yard pass by quarterback Mike Brown to sophomore Bob Baxter. Baxter was impressive. with 6 catches for 109 yards and a touch­down. 
Flanner broke the tough Stanford defense when Mike Thompson broke through the line for a-50 yard run. 
"It was a defensive struggle and we had no offense," said Flanner captain Brian Parker. "But we did shut (Stanford's) running game down. which helped us." 
Keenan 3. Dillon 0 
In their first game of the sea­son. No. 6 Keenan posted a 3-0 victory over Dillon on a last­minute field goal. 
Neither team could get their offense started. so in what seems to be a trend this year in interhall football. the defenses dominated. 
Throughout the game both offenses would have opportuni­ties to score. but the defense would stand strong and end the drive. 
This trade-off between the two teams continued until the last drive of the game when Keenan advanced to the Dillon
-goal line. With fourth down and one foot to go for the touchdown. Keenan tried to score but they were called for an illegal snap by the center. This gave Keenan another at­tempt to score. They teed it up for the game-winning field goal. and it sailed through with just seconds remaining in the game. 
Another round of women's interhall football games will be played tomorrow night at Cartier Field. highlighted by Pasquerilla West's first game as the new No. 1-ranked team in women's interhall football. 
At 9:00, P.W. will square off against Farley. After winning their first game last week. the Farley team hopes to come out strong against P.W. Farley's record is now 1-2. and as they are continually improving. 
"We are basically hoping to play like we did against Seigfried last week," said Far­ley team captain Gretchen Ganc. "Everything came to­gether last time." 
The Farley's team offensive and defensive lines played ex­tremely well last game, and will be tough to beat. "Both of the lines are strong and played well." added Ganc. 
Pasquerilla West enjoyed a 6­0 victory over Lewis Hall in their last game. The unde­feated Pasquerilla West team is now the team to beat. 
"We want to win. It would help us get a good foot into our season," said Farley player Molly Riestenberg. "We want 
Siegfried vs P. E. win to their unblemished 3-0 ranked Lewis Hall at 7:00p.m.
Siegfried Hall is set to play record. "We hope to hold our Knott has yet to win a game,the Pasquerilla East Pyros own. We have a good shot at but are striving to improve their tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. winning," said DeLorenzo. record. "We want to continue 
The Pyros have lost only one Siegfried hopes to bounce improving and hopefully win game and have a record of 2-1. back from their loss and post against Lewis," said freshman ranked sixth in the latest poll. their second win. "We were a Joan Kelleher. Despite being behind the Pyros little overconfident in our last The Lewis team has a record at No. 10. Siegfried is looking game. We want to play well of 2-1 and are one of the 
for another win. against P. E. and hopefully league's top teams, but is com­The Siegfried team has a win," concluded Siegfried play­ing into the game after a disap­record of 1-2. and they still er Kelly Duffy. pointing 6-0 loss to number-one 
have a chance for the playoffs. Pasquerilla West. "We are going to play our best. and hopefully pull it off." noted Seigfried team captain Angie 
Luzio. 
Happy Birthday
The Siegfried players hope to play solid defense and play hard. "Nothing's going to be easy," Luzio added. "We are going to polish up a few of our 
VIC

mistakes as well." The Pasquerilla East Pyros are looking forward to a tough 

for the big 21! 

game against Siegfried. "Even though they lost to Farley, we know that they're a good team." said Pyro team captain Love, Dad, Jen, Nina DeLorenzo. "We will defi­nitely have to contain their Joyce, Joel &quarterback Angie Luzio." Pasquerilla East's offense is 
Chooch

strong, and should be tough. "Our offensive line is great. Their blocking is really good," 

We take security and safety seriously. Visit our office and meet our staff. 
CALL DORENE NOW 272-1441 

Tuesday, October 5, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Third ranked Lyons upsets No. 1 Badin, 20-19 
By SCOIT CLEMENTE Sports Writer 
In perhaps the most exciting game of the season. Lyons upset undefeated and No. 1­ranked Badin Hall 20-19 in three overtimes on Sunday. 
The defenses battled through­out the first half as neither team was able to score. Then on their first series of the sec­ond half. Lyons was able to break the tie on a four-yard run by senior captain Wendy Holthaus. 
Towards the end of regulation Badin tied the score on a touch­down pass by senior Shari Shepard. The two teams entered overtime with the score knotted at 6-6. 
During the first overtime the defenses held strong, as neither team was able to score. 
In the second overtime, Lyons was able to reach the endzone when sophomore quarterback Julie Byrd passed to Holthaus for her second score of the day. But Badin refused to lay down and came storming back to tle the score and force another overtime. 
In the third extra period Badin struck first on another touchdown pass by Shepard. The extra point was successful and Badin led 19-12. 
Lyons then came back. The team drove down the field and scored on a quarterback keeper by Byrd. That put the score at 19-18. leaving Lyons with the opportunity to go for the extra point and the tie. or two points 
Back To School 
• 
Wolf Tanning Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge 


Tan All You Can for one month $49.95 
with Student I D.
272-0312 Expires0crober31, 1993 
at 
and the win. The team quickly decided to go for the win. "We thought if we could get one, we could get two," said Holthaus. "We were fighing hard all day so we wanted the win." 
Lyons lined up for two and Byrd was able to find Holthaus in the endzone for two points and the win. Byrd, who along with Holthaus provided all of Lyons· points. was impressed with the game as a whole. "It was a tremendous effort by each team and both deserved to win," said Holthaus. who was awarded this week's player-of­the-week award. 
Walsh 14, Breen-Phillips 6 
Walsh got its first win of the season Sunday. using both its passing and running attacks to defeat the Blitz. Walsh scored on their first possession when junior Meg Allen ran it in for the score to put her team up 6­0. 
The Walsh defense then held 
B.P. on four plays. When the 

Clark Atlanta University 
in Atlanta, Georgia 
Xavier University 
in New Orleans, Louisiana 
St. Mary's University 
in San Antonia, Texas 
St. Edward's University 
in Austin, Texas 
Informational Meeting Tuesday, Octobers, 1993 s:oo • 9:00 p.m. 10Z DeBartolo Hall 
ALL N D JUNIORS WELCOME 
scored again on a 30-yard touchdown pass from quarter­back Stephanie Sheets to senior Terry Castellucci. 
In the second half B.P. closed the gap to 14-6. but Walsh was able to hold on for the victory. Castellucci was pleased with her team's first win. 
"We have potential." said Castellucci. "The first two games we really weren't into it but we are coming around now." 
Two Walsh players. Laura Lavigne and Kathy Timmons. who start on defense. were in­jured as the result of a collision during the game. It is not known if they will return to the team before the end of the sea­son. 
Howard 24. Pangborn 0 
Howard prevented Pangborn from getting its first win as the team improved its record to 3­0, taking over the No. 2 spot in this week's poll. Senior Kim Harter caught a touchdown pass for Howard. compliments of teammate Sue Wassil. Wassil also ran one in to contribute to the scoring. 
The other offense was pro­vided by Sarah Donnelly ,who ran for two touchdowns. 
"Our offense has been to­
gether for a long time, we work 
pretty well together," said 
Donnelly. The defense also 
played well. shutting down the 
Pangborn offense. 
TEAM REG. 9/28 
Pasquerilla West 3-0 2 Howard 3-0 4 Lyons 2-1 8 Lewis 2-1 3 Badin 2-1 1 Pasquerilla East 2-1 7 Walsh 1-2 9 Breen-Phillips 1-2 5 Farley 1-2 10 Siegfried 1-2 6 Knott 0-3 11 Pangborn 0-3 12 


You're STILL the World's Sweetest Bear :1~1 even though you ARE 21!
ll 
I 
I HAPPY BIRTHDAY ~1il I love you, Mom 

The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana and the Saint Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs present 
india 
dance 
ensemble 
Wednesday, October 6, 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Student tickets $3* 
*Call for adult, senior citizen, and group prices. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard, Discover orders at 219/284-4626. 
--!if-­
Saint Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
Zahm beats Carroll in grudge match 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sport< Writer 
Two years ago, Zahm and Carroll played a semifinal play­off game that Carroll won 13­
10. However. Zahm was award­ed the victory after Carroll used ineligible players. Sunday. Zahm beat Carroll 8-6 in the rematch. 
Zahm's offense relied on the wishbone, directed by sopho­more quarterback Randy Swat­land. Usually. Zahm employs a wide-open passing attack. In Swatland 's first start of the year. he was able to maintain a ball-controlled offense. 
"We surprised them with the wishbone," said Zahm coach Dave Dominanni. "They ex­pected us to pass like we nor­mally do.M 
Carroll's defense still con­trolled Zahm's offense. A costly fumble by Carroll led to a Zahm touchdown in the first quarter. Sophomore Travis Krahl scampered in from 15­yards out. and junior Rick Rios converted the two-point conver­sion on an option play. That was all the scoring Zahm would do on the day, as the defenses took over. 
Carroll answered Zahm with a long running drive capped by senior Hastings Seigfried's touchdown. The conversion failed. 
~The fumble hurt us, but that's the way the ball bounces." commented Carroll senior captain Mike Bell. 
Both defenses neutralized the offenses in the second half. Zahm sophomore defensive end Pat McDonough made several big defensive plays. He re­covered a fumble, made two sacks and had the hardest hit of the day on a Carroll reverse play. 
"We played hard," said Mc­Donough. "Our line opened some huge holes." 
"Zahm played great," said Carroll coach Marty Ogren. ''I'm proud of our effort. they were just the better team to­day." 

PDWERPDU 
1015 TEAM REC. 9128 
1. Fisher 2-0-0 4 2. Morrissey 2-0-0 6 3. St. Edward's 1-0-1 10 4. Stanford 1-0-1 1 5. Zahm 1-0-1 3 
6. Keenan 1-0-0 ­7. Cavanaugh 0-0-1 2 8. Dillon 1-1-0 5 9. Off-Campus 0-1-0 9 
10. Flanner 0-1-1 8 
11. Alumni 0-1-0 ­12. Carroll 0-1-1 11 13. Sorin 0·2-0 7 14. Grace 0·2-0 12 
STANDINGS 
GOLD DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
1. 
Morrissey 1. Fisher 

2. 
Keenan 2. Zahm 

3. 
Stanford 3. St. Ed's 

4. 
Dillon 4. Cav. 

5. 
Flanner 5. Carroll 

6
. Off-Campus 6. Alumni


.,. 
7. Grace 7. Sorin 
PLAYER Of THE WEEK 
Scott Taylor , senior quarter­back. Taylor threw two touch­down passes, one for 40 ~ards and another for 25 in 
o. 2 Morrissey's 20-0 win over Grace. 
The ObueMif/Bfendan Regan 
''I'm real disappointed," added Bell. "I'm proud we stuck together and played well. I feel a little vindicated because of the whole Zahm-Carroll thing," 
St. Ed's 14. Sarin 8 
St. Ed's won their first game in six years by recovering a muffed punt for a touchdown with 1:45 remaining in the game. 
By using a ball-controlled of­fense and a hard hitting de­fense. St. Ed's was able to neu­tralize Sorin's offense. 
"We played solid all around," said St. Ed's junior captain Greg DeSouza. "We didn't take anything for granted on offense and we played great defense." 
Sorin quarterback Jeff Faragher completed a 65-yard touchdown pass to Ted Mahan for Sorin's only points. 
The game remained tied into the second half. However. St. Ed's had possession of the ball for the whole third quarter and failed to score. 
Fisher 19. Alumni 0 
Number-one ranked Fisher took control of this South Quad battle early by blocking a punt and recovering it in the end-quarterback Jeff Biever. scored two fourth quarter touchdowns to close the scoring. 
"We played really well both offensively and defensively," explained Biever. "We shut down their running game in the second half." 
Alumni hurt themselves by turning the ball over three times and failing to convert op­portunities. 
"We got behind early and had to work out of it," said Alumni coach Paul Zachlin. "We moved the ball but didn't put it in the endzone." 
Three interceptions by Fisher's defense stopped Alumni's offense in their tracks. L---------------------------' 

However. the score was only 7­0 until the fourth quarter. Fisher sophomore Chris Lary had a 45-yard TD run and Biever hooked up with class­mate Mike Carroll for a long bomb with a minute left in the game. 
No. 1 Fisher has a bye next week and then faces off against No. 3 St. Ed's. "We can't wait to play St. Ed's," noted Biever. "We're looking forward to the rest of the season." 
THE NAIL STUDIO 
AT 
THE CASTLE 
Special ~1 Set ofNails ~~ · Reg. $55 Just $45 /10'' 
with StudentiD expires 10/31/93 
Just Minutes from Campus 
•272-0312• 

S.R. 23 at Ironwood • 54533 Terrace Lane 
A New Series (or Graduate Students 
Presenting 
Dr. Dominic Vachon 
Discussing 
How To Deal With Relationship Conflicts 
Afraid to tell your best friend, roommate or special friend 
about? • things that simply annoy you 
• 
conflicts in your living situation 

• 
problems in the relationship or 

• 
a personality conflict 


Dr. Vachon will discuss the skills necessary to maintain communication lines, as well as address your specific issues and questions. 
DATE: SUNDAY, OCTOBER 10 TIME: 7:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. LOCATION: Fischer, O'Hara-e Community Center 

0MPUS 

MINISTRY Next Presentation: Sunday, November 21, 7:30p.m. on Anxiety. 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer, O'Hara-Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 
--~-., 

Tuesday, October 5, 1993 The Observer • TODAY 
SPELUNKER 
~~!! fYiurAN-r 
-Svc.~€.~S L.1~ FovR INC.I-\E.S LoNG... 6o"D 
page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
• 


"OK, Professor Big Mouth, we've all chipped in. Here's the hundred bucks, but remember­you gotta kiss her on the lips!" 
OF INTEREST 


... 
DINING HALL 

JAY HOSLER 
lf\u.e. A~e. lH•"'c;,'& No ONE. Sf-loU'-"' HAvE. To 
kNo~ Asou-r ~EtR. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Vapid & Skywalker of "Star Wars" 10 Level a 
structure 14 Jots 15 ~-Minor 16 Former 
spouses 17 Problem seen in 
medical circles? 20 Baum's terrier 21 Pot top 22 Pinza was one 23 Classic canine 
nursemaid 25 Island off Ireland 27 Secret circle parts? 33 Locales 

34 Carter or Charles 35 Lawyer's retainer 36 Reddy's "-­Woman" 37 "-~voyage!" 
38 The Sunshine St. 39 Greek vowel 40 Matinee-­42 '"--ofthe essence" 
45 Did she travel in religious circles? 
48 Hops kiln 
49--years (aged) 50 Benefit 53 Jackie's second 54 Maui town 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
58 What are struck in some family circles? 
62 Poker payment 63 Director Preminger 64 Gangster's 
moniker 65 Lea lows &6 Campus V.I.P. 67 "Travels in 
Northern Greece" author 
DOWN 
1 Cake-recipe verb 2 Corrida 
charger 3 Rat chaser 4 Terse 5 Superlative 
ending &Oater prop 7 "--People,"­
MacLaine film a Josh 9 Ring bearer? 
10 Sanguinary hill 
dweller 11 W.W. II losers 12 Jupiter's 
counterpart 13 He, in Napoli 18 Armbones 19Taken-­
(surprised) 24"Hail!" 25 "It's--to Tell 
a Lie" 26 Kind of room, for short 27 Silver, in Sevilla 

42 Pick-me-up 52 Concerning 43"--Had a 
53 Architectural Hammer" pier44 Entrance for 4 7 
55 Met melodyDown 56 Minn. neighbor4&Some 57 S African fox 
pollutants 47 Carney role 
59 Silent approval so A Cartwright 60 Dined 51 SpaniSh port? 61 March or Roach 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

28 King who founded Bangkok 
29--Gay, W.W. 
II plane 30 Bid 31 Thing of the 
past 32 Red and Black 33 Some charts 37 Give the 
heave-ho 40 Writer Calvi no 41 Murray the K et 
al. 



Parent's Weekend Party!
-
W& c.ar& llair 
•Open Friday immediately 
HIGH QUALITY, LOW COST HAIR CARE 
:::) 
after the Pep Rally at 8 p.m. 

1811 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 271-7674
..I 
•"Generation Jump" Music 
I--haircut ooupo;--1 
haircut coupon

zo
-~() 
SAVE ! SAVE
~­
from the 60's -90's
:::>Z 
I $1.00 I 
$2.00

-.JW 
I
<{ (/) . 
reg. $8 
reg. $13-$15
' 

I 
SHAMPOO, Cl[T &

WET CUT
We can't advertise any prices, so come by 
I STYLE with this coupon I with Jis coupon
and see how inexpensive The Club is!
:IHl expires: 10/11/93 ; expires: 10/11/93 
~--------­
-
-
• 

~---­
• 
SPORTS 
-
page 16 Tuesday, October 5, 1993 
SMC volleyball hosts DePauw 

By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team, 12-6. hosts DePauw University, 3-13. tomorrow night at 7:00. 
This is the first time coach Julie Schroeder-Biek 's team has played DePauw. 
"It's good for us in a way." said Schroeder-Biek. "We know we have to prepare. I know from this weekend we have to work on our setting and closing the block." 
Junior Erica Freitag also commented on yesterday's practice and preparing for the next couple of weeks' competi­tions. 
The ObserverfT.J. Harris 
"Today we worked on defense Sophomore Sarah Stroncek and Senior Kim Branstetter and the Belles and closing the block." saidwill be taking on Depauw tonight at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Freitag. "Everyone's hai>J)¥'that we're doing well. We're look­ing forward to next week and we're working on our serve reception." 
DePauw has a young team. with it's top player being a sophomore. Mary Golden leads in number of kills and attack percentage. 
The Belles are looking for­ward to a lot of tough competi­tion in the coming weeks. Next Tuesday they host Calvin College (No.14 in Div III) in a Triangular Match. 
Senior middle Mary Wheeler commented on the team's moral. 
"Our mental toughness is up," said Wheeler. "We're really starting to work as a team." 
Individual team players' sta­tistics are improving. Senior Andrea Salazar scored seven service aces in one game against Carroll this weekend. 
"I think being a senior has a lot to do with my improve­ment," said Salazar. ''I'm try­ing to be more consistent be­cause we're playing good teams and I need to be competitive. I want to finish with the other five seniors in style since we've been playing together for so long." 
Salazar also said that she likes to go in to practice every day and change her perfor­mance to meet the calibar of the team. 
''I'm really excited about playing well," she said. "We need a really good consistency. I like playing all positions. I just fall in where coach needs me." 


dkisson's priorities surpass ND soccer 14th ranked ND 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Viewpoint Editor 
Riley Adkisson is a soccer player's kid. When he plays on the floor. and spots a toy a few feet away. the look in his eye says one thing: "I will get there first." Once his legs start moving, he's not afraid of butting heads. 
The same goes for his dad. Kevin Adkisson. a starting defender for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. is called "Psycho" by his teammates for his relentless play on the field. He goes after every ball, and is willing to con­front every opponent. 
Adkisson is coach Mike Berticelli's stopper. The coach relies on him to shut down the middle of the field. preventing opposing offenses from easy runs at the goal. 
"If they're going to get to our goal. they're not going to come right down the middle of the field," Adkisson says. with the confidence of a roadblock. ''I'm committed to preventing goals." 
Off of the field, Adkisson's commit­ment is very different. but requires sim­ilar dedication. 
Riley lives in Chicago with his mother, Erin O'Connor. Erin. 24, works as a nurse at Loyola Medical Center. and has lived with her parents in suburban Chicago since Riley was born in March. 
"Erin's a trooper," says Adkisson. "Sometimes I think she's Supergirl. As tough as things seem for me. she's the one who is working 40 hours a week and basically taking care of the baby by herseH." 
Kevin helps out on the weekends. Since March. he has shuttled out to Chicago every Friday night. and rushed back late Sunday. spending as much time as he can with his new family. In the spring. the weekends were free. for the most part. But this fall's soccer sea­son put a crimp in the schedule. 
With a practice or game every day. Adkisson is committed to being at Alumni Field on almost every evening of the fall semster. So after arriving at Notre Dame for the schedule of pre-sea­son practices. Kevin had a very difficult time adjusting to being away from Riley and Erin. 
"Pre-season would've been a three-to four-week stretch when I wouldn't have seen Riley and Erin," says Adkisson. "At the time. there was no way I could've done that." 
After a week. he had decided that the pain of being away was too much. that 

volleyball takes on Illinois State 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
Looking to perpetuate a season high 5­match winning streak. the 14th ranked Notre Dame volleyball 
team will host Illinois State tonight at 7:30 in the 
J.A.C.C. 
Coming off a successful weekend on the road. posting wins at Ball State and Western Michigan. the Irish face a difficult 


test back in familiar con-Debbie Brown fines. as the Redbirds have surprised the favored Irish in each of the last two seasons. scoring upset victories to lead the career series between the two teams 4-3. 
This year's match looks to be as competi­tive as those in the past. as the Redbirds enter with a 10-4 record and their own 4­match winning streak. Most recently. Illinois State defeated Indiana State in three straight. 
"I think that Illinois State is very similar in style to us." commented Irish head coach Debbie Brown. whose record in the J.A.C.C. stands at 31-3 (.918) in just over two sea­sons. "They emphasize ball control. and . . . . . Th~ Observer/Eric Ruethling also are a solid defensive team." 
Kevrn Adk1sson has the support of Enn O'Connor and the1r son Riley th1s season. Defense has been the key to success thus 
his family was more important to him than soccer. and Notre Dame as well. 
"I was real close to not coming back," Adkisson says today. "I had definitely decided that I was not going to be at Notre Dame this fall. that I'd finish col­lege somewhere closer to Riley and Erin." 
Ultimately. though. Adkisson decided to return to Notre Dame. A few weeks later. with the team at 2-2. and strug­gling defensively, he decided to play soccer again. Today. he is happy with the decision. 
"It bothered me. the way that I left it," he says. "''ve never been one to quit something because it was going to be hard. 
"I realize that it's better for me to fin­ish school than be with Riley these two years. Ten years down the line. it's bet­ter for Riley that I stay at school and finish." 
That outlook, of planning for the far for th~ Redbirds. as five players have future and a family. is one that almost 1 00 plus digs. and the team has o~t-~locked everyone eventually adopts. For Kevin. ?pponents 228:140. How~ver. IllinoiS State it just came a little early. IS also !lot devm~ of offensive threats. . 
"It seems to me that I'm not just A t_rw o_f sem?rs leads t_he _Redbtrds. responsible for myseH anymore. I have Outsi~e h_Itter .Kim Nelson I~ hrst on the to take care of Erin and Riley. team m kills With_ 243. and hits for. a .235 
"Soccer is just a game. but in a lot of percentage. Middle bloc_ker Mic_helle ways. it's a lot like regular old life," Hucke~ ~nchors the_ net with ~onsistent says Adkisson, acknowledging that he is p_Iay. ~Ittmg a team high .271. Fmally. ou~­beginning to sound like a motivational side ~Itter Carla Mc9ueen r~unds out this speaker. "It's hard. and it's challenging. expenence_d group With 159 kills. . but you've got to face it. You have to Along With the t_alent .the_ Redbrrds pas-
get on the field and play." sess. Notre Dame IS th_err biggest non-co~-
Berticelli made that possible early. He ference opponent. w~Ich means they Will put Kevin into Notre Dame's game with ~pproa~h the m~tch With greater tha~ u~ual Michigan state at halftime. though mtensity. ~opmg to prolong their Im-Adkisson had only practiced for one day P~?bable strmg of upsets. . since his return to the team. Notre We really have to execute wellm order Dame did not allow a goal for three to win. becau~e they are goin.~ t~ ~e fir~d 
halves  after  his  return.  beating up to play us.  ~oted Brown.  ThiS IS a big  
Michigan State  and Evansville.  match for them.  
1----------------­ 

see ADKISSON I page 11 see VOLLEYBALL I page 11 
Inside SPORTS 
Men's lnterhall 
Women's lnterhall 
Women's Soccer 
No. 5 Zahm beats 
Coach Betrucelli and the


No. 3 Lyons tops No. 1 
Carroll. This and other 
Irish drop 3 places to No.

Badin in the most excit­
• • . 
results from this week­
6 after losing to No.1

ing game of the IH foot­
end's games inside . 
Stanford this weekend. 

ball season. 
L 
see page 14 
see page 11

see page 13 


