~-·~-----­
Fireside Clean-up chats begin reform 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
needed 
Striving to educate the com­ByNICKRIOSmunity in an informal envi­
News Writer 
ronment, the Multicultural Executive Council (M.E.C.) is 
-Urging the Defense
sponsoring five fireside chats Department to strengthen itsthis week as part of the annual 
environmental ethic, Len
Multicultural Fall Festival, ac­Ackland, University of Colorado cording to Patricia Acosta of 
professor, attacked the
the M.E.C. 
American government's
"Speakers from any and all 
method of nuclear weapons
cultures were invited to speak production and waste disposal
in a relaxed setting about a 
in a lecture last night. 
topic them believe is important "We must stop exploiting our
to inform people on," said 
minds looking for new and im­
Acosta. "It's basically an 
proved ways to kill each other," education process." 
said Ackland. "We must rec­ognize that the land has rightsThe chats, which began yes­and that we should have rules
terday with a talk on "The 

The Observer/Rick Bernardo 
that guarantee that the peopleMyths and Realities of Aids" 

University of Colorado Professor Len Ackland lectured last night on the the environmental responsibilities of 
presented by an HIV-positive the Defense Department at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 

see LECTURE I page 4
woman, are presented by many different types of people-from a blue collar worker to an Australian, said Acosta. 


U.S. cannot be active in all world conflicts 
The fireside chats are held Associated Press At a news conference later with Japanese open," he said. today, Wednesday, Thursday Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, Clinton Clinton, in proposing curbs on mush­and Friday, from 12:15-1 p.m. UNITED NATIONS said the United States sent peacekeepers to rooming international peacekeeping ven­in the Notre Dame room on the President Clinton told the United Nations Somalia in December "with our eyes open" tures -there are now 17 involving 80,000 second floor of LaFortune. Monday the American people will support but "may have underestimated" the diffi­troops -appeared to be looking for a 
sending U.S. troops to keep peace around culty of restoring political stability. "I still practical way out of a growing dispute with Subjects include: the world only if new missions are sharply believe President Bush made the right members of Congress who are questioning limited. "The United Nations must know decision," he said American intervention in foreign conflicts. 
•"Today's 
Families: How when to say 'no,'" he declared. He also listed conditions for deploying "The United Nations simply cannot Could Both Dan Quayle and Noting that he is the first president born American forces to a NATO peacekeeping become engaged in every one of the Murphy Brown Be Right?" pre­after creation of the organization, Clinton unit in Bosnia. world's conflicts," Clinton said. sented on Tuesday by Joan insisted on new rules for "new times" as "I would want a clear understanding of Still, he said, the U.N. must have "the Aldous, Kenan professor of so­he outlined his foreign policy views with a what the command and control was and I technical means to run a modern world­ciology; mixture of caution and high purpose. would want the NATO commander in class peacekeeping operation." And he 

Clinton is prepared to send as many as charge of the operations," Clinton said. "I pledged that the United States intended to 

•"On 
the Road Again," pre­25,000 American troops to Bosnia if peace would want a clear timetable for first "remain engaged and to lead" in post-Cold sented on Wednesday by a terms can be worked out, and he defended review and ultimately for the right to ter­War world affairs. local Teamster's Union mem­keeping 4,700 U.S. peacekeepers in minate American involvement." He offered to pay within the next few ber; Somalia. But he told the representatives of Clinton said there would have to be "a weeks a $400 million U.S. debt for peace­

more than 180 nations that the U.N. must clear political strategy" for the peacekeep­keeping, but he also said the United States 

•"New 
Wings of Faith," pre­limit its involvement in international fight­ing mission, and the deployment would was paying too heavy a load. A senior U.S. sented on Thursday by ing, beginning "by bringing the rigors of have to be endorsed by Congress. · official, speaking on condition of anonymi­Glendora Haskin, an associate military and political analysis to every U.N. "We would have to know what our finan­ty, said the idea was to scale back from minister of this local, nonde­peace mission." cial responsibilities are," the president 30.4 percent to 25 percent and have nominational church; He also proposed a network of nuclear said. "Then we would have to know that Germany and Japan, among others, make 

arms restraints, including a worldwide ban others would do their part as well." up the difference. 

•"Life 
in Australia," pre­on stockpiling of weapons-grade uranium. Elaborating on his speech, Clinton said sented on Friday by Father And yet he hinted he might abandon his none of the current peacekeeping missions Clinton said the United Nations must Wilson Miscamble, associate three-month old ban on underground was "ill founded" but that "there are limits "weed out waste" and he suggested the 


professor of history and a na­weapons blasts if China resumed its testing to what we can do" in the future. "I want appointment of an inspector general to tive Australian. program. to see us go into these things with our eyes investigate any abuses. 

Senator accused of misconduct 
there have been posters and By CHIP BROWN Mrs. Hutchison became the benefit" and of destroying com­campaign materials left in Associated Press second U.S. senator under in­puter records from the trea­undesignated places. Flynn dictment. Sen. Dave sury. said...r AUSTIN Durenberger, a Minnesota Also indicted were Michael iF "N~ posters may J)e posted.. Just 16 weeks after her elec­Republican, faces federal trial Barron, former deputy state onany structure in ~ny quad 
tion to the U.S. Senate, Kay in January on charges he ille­treasurer, and David Criss, the or on· any public signs any~ Bailey Hutchison was indicted gally claimed reimbursement agency's planning director. whe.re on except Monday on charges of miscon­from the Senate for a Barron was charged with of­. te board duct during her 2 1/2 years as Minneapolis condominium he ficial misconduct, tampering state treasurer. secretly owned. He announced with governmental records and 
Mrs. Hutchison, a Republican, less than two weeks ago that he tampering with physical evi­was accused along with two wouldn't see re-election to a dence. Criss was charged with aides of using her treasurer fourth term next year. official misconduct. office for personal use and Mrs. Hutchison is the lOth sit­Mrs. Hutchison is allowed to destroying records as part of a ting U.S. senator ever indicted. remain in the Senate while she cover-up. Mrs. Hutchison, 50, defeated fights the charges. 
She denied any wrongdoing appointed Democratic Sen. Bob Texas GOP Executive Director sion;, ·· new evi­and called the charges the Krueger in a June 5 special Karen Hughes called the dence not considered in the product of a politically moti­election for U.S. Treasury charges politically motivated. Electi()n Committee's reconsid· vated investigation by Travis Secretary Lloyd Bentsen's for­· ered. · County District Attorney Ronnie mer seat. The victory made her "I am sickened but frankly ·So . senators disliked this 
Earle, a Democrat. Texas' first woman senator. not surprised that a grand jury part ofthe proposalbecause it 
"I will win in the end," the made up of Democrat primary may give more· responsibility senator said. "I think the citi­The five-count indictment ac­voters is trying to win through to th~.t president and it may not zens of Texas see through this . cuses her of using state em­the judicial process what they allow the Student Senate to ..They see that this is sleazy ployees, facilities, equipment were unable to win in the last ' discus$ the cases brought to politics." and supplies for "her personal election," she said. the Judicial Council. 

a s 
2Q32 -­
-

page 2 Tuesday, September 28, 1993
The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
With peace, look again at Middle East 
History has turned another page on us. Peace in the Middle East has been a dream long unbe­lieved, but now could be realized. Although this is a call for many congratula­tions on both sides, few Americans realize how much hate both sides have overcome. 
The conflicts in the 

Middle East have been ------­with me for the extent of my memory. My earli­est memories of historically important events are of Jimmy Carter at Camp David with Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat, doing a three-way handshake. 
Back then it meant nothing to me-the coun­tries and the problems in the Middle East were less familiar to me as the events on Yavin, Hoth, and Endor. Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader meant a whole lot more to me then than Begin and Sadat. 
The news of peace in the area didn't strike me like many other events did. I can remember sit­ting in grade school, watching the space shuttle Columbia launch on TV. I can remember sitting in a junior high school study hall, when the principal announced the news that the ~hallen~er exploded. I can remember standing m freezmg rain and sleet, waiting for a ride home from swim practice when we were told that we had commenced bombing on Iraq. Though I remember these events, which hap­pened years ago, I couldn't tell you where or when I first heard about the promise of peace in the Middle East. not yet a month old. 
For most of us, the problems in the Middle East were just like that all the time. It hung around us like a light fog-we knew that it was there, but we just didn't pay it any attention and saw nothing behind it. 
Few realize how the state of Israel was forged by fire, immediately being plunged into a seven and a half month war after its creation for its very survival. Few know about the thousands o Palestinians who fled or were forced to flee from Israel during that time, hoping to return someday to what they called their home. 
The West Bank, Golan Heights and Gaza Strip, for many Americans, are as alien as Star Wars planets. Many protest the stone-throwing, soldier-killing Palestinians, but few realize the 1,067 Palestinian civilian deaths by Israeli forces since 1987. 
Hardly anyone knows about the hundreds o thousands of young men and women who stood up when their country called for them, leaving family for the front lines. Few recognize the valiant dead on the plains, plateaus, and deserts around Israel, who died on those plains, or in tanks. or in aircraft-all of who fought for what they believed was right. 
To most of us, their history is a cycle of vio­lence which, until recently. seemed to be going nowhere. Seemingly, a struggle of the "evil" Arabs against the gray-good Israelis, as por­trayed through the Israeli censors. With the possibility of lessening the madness in the Middle East, maybe we should take a look back and see what the fog had hidden. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o the Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Nicole McGrath MarkZito Corrinne Doran Ron Veldman 
Sports Accent Brian Kubicki Susan McGovern 
Lab Tech Graphics John Bingham Chris W eirup 
The Obscrvtr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated PrtSS. All reproduction righu arc reserved. 
Cord transplant promising 
NEW YORK 
When it came time to replace the bone marrow of 3­year-old Derick Pritchard, whose own marrow was destroyed by chemotherapy and radiation for his leukemia, doctors used an unusual source. 
They injected him last month with blood from the umbilical cord and placenta of an unrelated newborn. The blood cells have now replaced his marrow, a researcher said, boosting hopes for developing an alter­native to some marrow transplants. 
It will take a couple years to know if Derick's leukemia is in long-term remission. but for now "the fact that this cord blood could make his bone marrow grow is really very important," said Dr. Joanne Kurtzberg of Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. 
Derick remains hospitalized, but may be allowed to become an outpatient in a week or two. 
Before the blood transplant on Aug. 24, Air Force Staff Sgt. Steven Pritchard and his wife, Susan, had been told that their son would be the first person to get umbilical cord blood from an unrelated donor. 
"We didn't care about that," Pritchard said Monday in a telephone interview from the medical center. "All we cared about was this was the last chance for our son. 
"He's a fighter, he wants to fight it, so we'll fight with him," added Pritchard, who is based at Randolph Air Force Base near San Antonio. 
Transplants of cord blood, which is collected after birth and actually comes mostly from the placenta, had been done before. Derick's is significant because the blood came not from a newborn sibling, but from a specialized blood bank. 
His transplant appears to be the first in the world to use blood from an unrelated donor and follow standard procedur~s of. Weste~n medicine, said Dr. John Wagner of the Umverstty of Mmnesota, who keeps an internation­al registry of cord blood transplants. 
Reports of similar procedures in China are still sketchy he said. ' 
Dutch groups against no-women party 
AMSTERDAM 
Dutch lawmakers and women's groups went on the offensive Monday against an ultra-religious Christian party that banned new women members. 
'.'It's _unbelievable, absolutely out of place in our time," satd Mteke van den Burg, women's affairs spokeswoman for the Labor Party. 
"The ...decision is discriminatory and attests to a con­tempt for the talent and intellect of women," said Amsterdam's leftist Volkskrant newspaper. 
At a weekend meeting in the Dutch bible-belt town of Putten, delegates of the Reformed Political Party voted by a 3-1 ratio to enforce their interpretation of the Bible as proscribing female participation in politics. 
But the party, whose 26,000 members adhere to the Dutch Reformed Church's fundamentalist wing, said the 20 women who are already members could stay. 
Van den Burg said her party will ask Justice Minister Ernst Hirsch-Ballin on Tuesday to take legal action against the party on the grounds that it violated the Dutch constitution, which bans discrimination. 
The no-women vote has drawn fire in a nation where women have gained a prominent role in politics, society and the arts. Women hold a third of the seats in parlia­ment. 
Culture Minister Hedy D'Ancona, a prominent feminist, called the vote "a slap in the face ...for my sisters" in the Reformed Political Party. 
The Reformed Political Party, foundedin 1918, has just three of the 150 seats in Parliament. But it captured national headlines last July when the executive commit­tee proclaimed that, according to the Bible, government is "entrusted to the man." 
INDIANA Weather 

Tull8day, Sept. 28 Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
llndianapoli3 60° I 
ILL 
• 
NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 28. 
OKLA. C::S 
'----L..--=::...:.::.:.:...._~-~~_I,__________J20 k"'_ --~ AP/Wm. J. Castello 

Keds donates millions in settlement 
WASHINGTON 

The Keds Corp. won't demand that its shoes be sold at specific prices and will donate $5.7 million to women's and children's charities to settle a price-fixing case, fed­eral and state authorities said Monday. 
The settlement comes after an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission and the New York attorney general into retailers' complaints that Keds prohibited discounts on certain styles. 
Last September. "in order to protect the long-term image of the brand." Keds told retailers to hold to certain prices for six women's styles, including the popular white canvas sports shoe at $19.99 and a similar leather ver­sion at $39.99, said Keds treasurer John Kelliher. 
The company does not believe it violated any antitrust la":s and "co~~in~es to believe its pricing policy was entirely lawful, satd a company statement. But it decid­ed to resolve the issue to avoid any business disruption. 
Under an agreement with the FTC, Keds will refrain from fixing retail prices, pressuring any dealer to adhere to any resale price, trying to get dealers to commit to a certain price, and requiring or even suggesting that deal­ers report others who sell any Keds product below the suggested retail price. 
"Right now, we don't have suggested retail prices," said Kelliher. 
The agreement with the New York attorney general's office on behalf of all the states also requires Keds to con­tribute $5.7 million to five charities and $1.5 million in administrative costs related to the case. 

Father erupts as Poisson leaves court 
MANCHESTER 

A 76-year-old man was sentenced to two to 10 years in prison Monday for molesting his step-grandson, who killed himself as the case approached trial. 
"You rot in hell," the boy's father yelled as a frail-look­ing Raymond Poisson was led from court. ''I'll look for you when you get out, if you get out." 
Poisson pleaded guilty last month to felonious sexual assault on Gary Lawrence Jr. when the boy was 9. His parents say he killed himself last September, at age 15, b~cause he couldn't take the pressure of the upcoming tnal. 
Karen and Gary Lawrence and their son Brian, 15, and daughter Carrie, 18, fought tears, hugged and consoled one another during the sentencing. 
Assistant County Attorney John Weld read a school paper Gary wrote before his death, detailing seven years of torment and abuse. "I had a pretty good childhood until I was 8 years old," the boy wrote. 
01993 Accu·Wealher, Inc. 

FRONTS: 
.......--...-...A....A. .......-.....­
cow WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu·Wealhef, Inc. 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
~~ 

H HIGH  L LOW  B ISS! SHOWERS RAIN  
City  H  L  
AUan1a Baltimore Boston Chicago  79 77 76 53  69 65 58 48  

II!I 0 ~ §l -l) T-llTORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY  L...! PT. CLOUDY  U CLOUDY  
Columbus  61  49  New Orleans  81  70  
Dallas  82  57  New York  76  63  
Denver  84  45  Paris  57  48  
London  52  46  Philadelphia  84  65  
Los Angeles  96  68  St. Louis  62  46  
Miami  87  77  San Francisco  90  56  
Minneapolis  53  37  Seattle  78  49  

~ 

---------~ -~~----~~----­
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 


University chosen for IBM research program 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame is one of only a small number of universities selected for the company's Shared University Research program. IBM hopes to establish a strong technical presence at "selected leading research universities." 
Other universities in the pro­gram include Cornell, Illinois, Michigan, Penn State, Purdue, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Stanford, Texas, University of California­Berkeley, UCLA and Wisconsin. 
Notre Dame will receive spe­cial discounts on $1.5 million in computer equipment this year and potential for $1 million in equipment in 1994 from IBM to support faculty research, says Donald Spicer, assistant provost for university comput­ing. 
According to Spicer, the equipment is to support research applications that push the current limits of computer technology. 
"This is for research prob­lems termed 'grand chal­lenges,' research dealing with the management and very fast processing of huge amounts of information or large numeric calculations," he explains. 
Spicer will chair an oversight committee that has been charged with setting campus policy and procedures and managing awards. Other mem­bers of the committee include: Anthony Hyder, associate vice president of the Graduate School; Billie Spencer Jr., asso­ciate professor of civil engi­neering and geological sci­ences; Kathie Newman, associ­ate dean of the College of Science and associate professor of physics; Roger Skurski, asso­ciate dean of the College of Arts and Letters and professor of economics; and John Christian Olsen, Anderson alumni profes­sor of accounting and informa­tion services. 
Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5303 


IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:00p.m.~ 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
ND awarded grant funds 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $3,735,412 in grants during August for the support of research and various pro­grams. Research funds totaled $1,520,412, including: 
• 
$227,508 from the National Institutes of Health for nuclear magnetic resonance studies of metals in kinases and related enzymes by Thomas Nowak, professor of chemistry. 

•$140,694 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Paul Helquist, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on the synthesis and activity of streptogramins A and ana­logues. 

•$101,334 
from Purdue University for semiconductor research by Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics, and Malgorzata Dobrowolska­Furdyna, assistant professor of physics. 

•$100,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search at ultrahigh energies by John Poirier, professor of physics. 

•$90,000 
from the U.S. Navy for hydrodynamics and acous­tics research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering. 

•$88,500 
from the Indiana University School of Medicine for research on hormone metabolism for fish gills by Kenneth Olson, adjunct profes­sor of biological sciences. 

•$70,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Nicos Makris, assis­tant professor of civil engineer­ing, and David Hill, assistant professor of chemical engineer­ing. 

•$68,000 
from the U.S. Department of Energy for re­search on the effects of radia­tion on matter by Robert Schuler, director of the radia­tion laboratory and Zahm pro­fessor of radiation chemistry. 

•$62,956 
from Brookhaven National Laboratory for physics 



research by John LoSecco, as­sociate professor of physics, Neal Cason, professor of physics, and others. 
•$62,500 
from the National Science Foundation for a Presidential Young Investigator Award for Joan Brennecke, assistant professor of chemical engineering. 

•$61,256 
from the U.S. Department of Energy for·re­search by Laura Pyrak-Nolte, assistant professor of civil engi­neering and geological sci­ences, on seismic waves in frac­tured rock. 

•$60,000 
from the Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation for re­search by David Hyde, assistant professor of biological sciences, on a vertebrate homolog of a gene. 

•$60,000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Andrew Sommese, professor of mathematics, on overconstrained mechanisms and complex algebraic geome­try 

•$50,000 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Flint Thomas, associate professor of aero­space and mechanical engi­neering, on transport modeling of hydrogen in metals. 

•$45,000 
from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, for research by Billie Spencer, associate pro­fessor of civil engineering and geological sciences, on stochas­tic fatigue of engineering mate­rials. 

•$39,890 
from the Kauffman Foundation for research by F. Clark Power, associate profes­sor in the program of liberal studies, on self-evaluation pro­cesses. 

•$32,968 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Nancy Stanton, pro­fessor of mathematics, on par­tial differential equations and several complex variables. 

•$30,000 
from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for space active modular materials experiments by Anthony Hyder, associate vice president of graduate studies and research and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 


•$25,000 
from the National Science Foundation for a Presidential Young Investigators Award for James Glazier, assistant professor of physics. 

•$24,898 
from the University of North Carolina for circula­tion computations research by Johannes Westerinck, assistant professor of civil engineering and ecological sciences. 

•$24,000 
from the International Lead Zinc Research Organization Inc. for research by Charles Alcock, Freimann professor of electri­cal engineering, on the devel­opment of an electrochemical sensor. 

•$21,000 
from the Institute for the Study of World Politics for a research fellowship for Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and re­search and professor of history. 

•$20,000 
from the U.S. Institute of Peace for research by Janie Leatherman, visiting assistant professor of govern­ment and international studies, on the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Challenge of Ethnic Conflict. 

•$8,000 
from Elkhart County for research on drug abuse problems among teen parents and adolescents by Thomas Whitman, professor of psychol­ogy. 

•$5,000 
from the Indiana Arts Commission for research by Joan Godmilow, associate professor of communication and theater, on recapitulating Farlocki's Inextinguishable Fire. 


Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $30,000 from the National Institute of Standards and Technology for absolute calibration of atomic parity non-conservation mea­surements by Carol Tanner, assistant professor of physics. 
Awards for other programs totaled $2,185,000 from Pew Charitable Trust for a program administered by Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research and pro­fessor of history. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
Soviet program said to put POWs in Gulag 


Bosnian president offers 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associat~d Press 
WASHINGTON 
A U.S. report on American servicemen missing in the Korean War sketches a chilling picture of American airmen being hunted by Soviet intelli­gence teams and shipped otT to labor camps. 
The report, which was pro­vided to Russian officials at a recent meeting in Moscow, al­leges that several hundred American POWs were secretly taken into the Soviet Union in the 1950s and never returned. Moscow has always denied this, although it has said some U.S. aviators on non-Korean War missions were captured. 
The United States has not indicated it has conclusive evi­dence of specific American POWs having been held at spe­cific sites in the former Soviet Union. Rather, it cites a range of evidence that a Soviet POW­grabbing operation was carried out. 
The charge, based on a 77­page report titled "The Transfer of U.S. Korean War POWs to the Soviet Union." was made by the American side of the U.S.-Russian Joint Commission on POWs-MlAs at a recent commission meeting in Moscow. 

U.S. researchers concluded from newly available Russian documents, interviews with for­mer Soviet military and in­telligence officers, and U.S. records that the Soviets used a well-practiced system for trans­ferring the Americans, the re­port said. 
The Soviet operation ap­peared to have two main objec­tives: grabbing U.S. aviators who could provide useful in­formation about U.S. fighter planes and Air Force opera­tions, and taking some who would be useful in the Gulag forced labor system. 
In many cases. the report said. captured American avia­tors were interrogated by Soviet military intelligence offi­cers at Pos'yet, just across the North Korean border in Russia, and taken north to Khabarovsk. 
pected to decide on the plan Tuesday before the full

Georgia city captured by separatists 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associat~d Pr~ss 
TBIUSI 
Abkhazian separatists cap­tured the western Georgian city of Sukhumi on Monday after 12 days of fighting, and Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze fled the city he had tried per­sonally to defend. 
Sukhumi was the Georgian government's last stronghold in the coastal province of Abkhazia, and its loss was a major blow to Shevardnadze. He had warned that the gov­ernment's defeat could lead to civil war between ethnic mi­norities across Georgia. 
Shevardnadze's office in Tbilisi, the Georgian capital, said he sent a message Monday conceding that Abkhazians forces fought their way to the center of the city and raised their flag over city hall. 
The message blamed Russia for the defeat. 

"Georgia lost an unequal bat­tle," he said. "We could have saved Sukhumi yesterday, but only Russia could do this and we sent an appeal to Moscow for such help." 
Shevardnadze's office said he had left Sukhumi but declined to say where he was. Abkhazian officials said he was in hiding in the town of Gulripsh, nine miles from Sukhumi. The report could not be confirmed. 
Shevardnadze's aides in Tbilisi said he might have to ac­cept a Russian otTer for evacua­tion. but would try to avoid that humiliating step. 
Although Russia has officially maintained neutrality in the conflict, Georgia's government has accused the Russian mili­tary of supplying arms and other aid to Abkhazia. 
Rtyisia has both ships and air­craft in the region and has described as a transit point for POWs -Americans as well as 

bleak choice for future 
and "could even jeopardize the ...survival of the Muslim na­tion," lzetbegovic said. 
"The only choice left to us is the choice between a just war and an unjust peace," he said. "And that is a personal tragedy for all of us. We are talking about a decision that affects the destiny of our people." 
Bosnian Serbs have seized some 70 percent of Bosnia since fighting erupted over its secession from the Serb-domi­nated former Yugoslavia nearly 18 months ago, and Croats hold most of the rest. Serb leaders have made it clear that the cur­rent plan is their last otTer. 
U.N. mediator Thorva.ld Stoltenberg predicted from his native Norway on Monday that the fighting -which already has killed an estimated 200,000 people -would worsen if the deal is rejected. 
The plan would give the Muslim-led Sarajevo govern­ment about 31 percent o Bosnia. Serbs would get 52 percent and Croats 17 percent. 
To Izetbegovic. the chief en­emy if no peace agreement is signed would be the specter o enduring a second winter un­der siege and with undepend­able foreign relief supplies. 
For Serb and Croat troops besieging Muslim pockets, "winter will be tough enough; for us, it will be unbearable." 
''Without humanitarian aid, our people will not be able to survive," he said. 
But Muhamed Fllipovic, a leading opponent o Izetbegovic's ruling Party o Democratic Action. said ethni­cally dividing Bosnia would create "three fascist states in this country -one Serb, one Croat and one Muslim." 

pected to approve Georgia's en­try into the Commonwealth of Independent States, the loose association of former Soviet re­publics. Some hoped that join­
The Observer ing the CIS would end Georgia's diplomatic isolation and bring 
Are you a freshman, sophomore, or junior
help from other republics. 

interested in sales? 
Lecture 
continued from pagel 
don't harm the land." 
The government's treatment of nuclear sites is so poor that it has resulted in the estimated $160 billion dollar clean up cost of a nuclear weapons plant in Colorado, according to Ackland. 
"One of the major problems was that the government only thought of the short term ef­fects but neglected to consider the devastating long term ef­fects of nuclear power plants," said Ackland. "The government never considered how to prop­erly dispose of the nuclear waste that would be created with time." 

The Cold War blinded us as a people and created a forum for these environmental problems by distracting us from real is­sues, according to Ackland. 
The secrecy in which the gov­ernment produced these weapons, the short term think­ing in developing the arms raise plan and the lack of response from the general pub­lic allowed this distraction to fester, he said. 
"The government started an 

Enter to win a Fun Makeover and Photo Session! Mail your entry to: Beauty, Elegance & Style Contest 
P. 0. Box 4698, S. Bend, IN 46634 by September 30, 1993. NAME 
ADDR~ES~S~-----------------­
South Koreans and possibly others. 
From Khabarovsk some POWs were moved west to transshipment points at Chita and Irkutsk, Russian cities just north of the Mongolian border, and then to numerous Gulag camps, including one identified as Vorkuta, in the Komi region, the report said. 
Some apparently also were taken to Magadan, a city on the Siberian east coast just west of the Kamchatka Peninsula, and from there to a series of Gulag camps to the north in an area around Susuman and Debin on the Kolyma River. 
Gen. Georgii Lobov, com­mander of the Soviet 64th Fighter Aviation Corps based at Andung, China, just across the Yalu River from North Korea during the war, was quoted in the report as having said the Soviets formed and used a spe­cial Air Force unit with the mis­sion of capturing pilots of U.S. F-86 fighter jets. 
By TONY SMITH Asaodated Pre$$ 
SARAJEVO 
Bosnia's Muslim president offered his people a bleak choice Monday: Sign an "unjust peace•• o.r be starved into defeat by another winter of destruction. 
Alija Izetbegovic, undecided on a peace package that would divide the multi~etbnic Bosnia be has fought to preserve, out­lined the dilemma to an infor­mal but crucial assembly of Muslims and other supporters. 
The Bosnian Muslim COnvention -some 350 people representing all of Bosnia's ethnic groups -met in a cramped hall -at the shell­l:lCarred Holiday Inn to debate the plan to divide Bosnia­Herzegovina into three ethni· cally based mini-states. 
Muslims, who are the only members of the convention with voting rights, were ex­
evacuated 3,500 civilian refugees in recent days. Shevardnadze's personal air­plane, a Soviet-built Yak-40, was still at Sukhumi airport, which the separatists have been shelling for days. 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin ordered his Defense Ministry to give "maximum" assistance to get Shevardnadze safely out of the region, officials in Moscow said. 
Georgia's parliament, which gave Shevardnadze special powers and disbanded itself two weeks ago, went back into emergency session Monday night. 
The lawmakers were ex­
Parliament meets for a final .vote. SanJevo radio said. The convention's decision is likely to set the tone for Parliament's vote. 
the convention. a 

... .. ing Izetbegovic
$tOp ·.· rt of endorsing the plAn to divide· Bosnia into Serb, Croat and mostly Muslim mini· states. •g, 
But heleft no doubt that re· 
ecting tli~ ·deal would .mean more suffering and starvation and an even weaker bargaining position in the future. 
''Although , ..this peace plan does not necessarily guarantee peace, rejecting it means a cer­tain continuation of the war" 
arms race that was a top secret plan," said Ackland. "Such se­crecy meant that no one was to find out they were actually building plants for the purpose of creating nuclear weapons." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Krock Institute for International Peace Studies and held last night in the building's auditorium. 

(It is a paid position) 
Work your own hours and at your own pace ... Applicant should be highly motivated and flexible. Anyone interested please contact Anne Heroman, 
Advertising Manager, at the Observer 631-6900 
PREPARING FOR THE LSAT? 
Kaplan LSAT classes for the December 4, 1993 exam start next week Sunday, October 3rd 1717 E. South Bend Avenue 
Experience Kaplan Total 'fraining Anything Else is Partial Prep! 

For more information and to enroll Calll-800-KAP-TEST 








KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
...... 
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Mrs. Clinton to face Doctors seek definition of syndrome 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD "Chronic fatigue syndrome is other doctors say there could Associated Press a complex condition that can­be 2 million. Still other doctors 

many tough questions 
not be diagnosed easily or with have yet to recognize it as a 
By KAREN BALL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hillary Rodham Clinton's presence on Capitol Hill once posed a delicate puzzle for some lawmakers: Can you re­ally ask tough questions and challenge the president's wife? 
But as she opens debate on the White House health care package this week with ap­pearances before five separate congressional panels, lawmak­ers said they don't need to tip­toe around controversy. 
"She's not asked for any spe­cial treatment," said Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, one of Mrs. Clinton's five stops. "She'll get the courtesy and same hard questions as any­one." 
"Everybody's going to be po­lite," added Sen. John Chafee, R-R.I., "but that doesn't mean you can't bear in on questions. I think she's going to get some stiff grilling on the cost esti­mates" of President Clinton's plan to provide universal cov­erage at a cost of about $350 billion over five years. 
Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., 
said GOP lawmakers will keep 
pushing Mrs. Clinton on 
specifics, just as they have dur­
ing the first lady's months of 
consultations on Capitol Hill. 
"We were not treating her as 
the social-tea first lady; we 
were treating her as the presi­
dent's point person on health care, and we're still going to ask pointed questions," said Packwood, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, which will question Mrs. Clinton on Thursday. 
Mrs. Clinton, as a chief archi­tect of the White House plan to overhaul the nation's $900 bil­lion health care system, will serve as the administration's lead witness in Congress. 
House and Senate committees with jurisdiction practically competed for her time, so she'll pack in five different hearings over three days this week, starting with House Ways and Means on Tuesday morning. 
Back in the spring, some when Mrs. Clinton was first making the rounds with law­makers, Sen. Dan Coats and others complained that her sta­tus as first lady unnerved law­makers and made them reluc­tant to ask the tough questions. 
"Nobody gets ticked off. They don't raise their voice. They don't challenge her," the Indiana Republican had com­plained at the time. 
Coats' office said he didn't 
want to talk anymore about 
Mrs. Clinton's treatment on 
Capitol Hill. 
But other lawmakers say the jitters about grilling Mrs. Clinton have mostly dissipated, largely because she's proven herself as an expert on health care, and in most cases, knows more about the subject than members of Congress. 
ATLANTA 
The checklist for deciding whether someone has chronic fatigue syndrome may be un­necessarily long, so federal health officials are thinking of shortening it. 
Under a new definition pro­posed Monday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, patients may be able to meet less strict criteria to be diagnosed with CFS, which causes different symp­toms in different people. 
The attempt by the agency to rewrite its 1987 definition illus­trates just how little doctors still know about the disorder. 
certainty," Dr. Gary Holmes of Texas A&M University warned at a meeting convened Monday by the CDC. 
CFS is a debilitating condition in which people become so 
· tired that they cannot function. It is hard to diagnose because it mimics diseases such as mul­tiple sclerosis or Lyme disease, and doctors do not know what causes it. It often appears sud­denly, and usually in women under 45. Nobody knows just how many people have CFS, first identified in Nevada in 1985. The CDC has estimated between 10,000 and 100,000 Americans, but 
real disease. 

Six years ago, the CDC issued what it called a rough defmition of CFS: Persistent, severe fa­tigue for more than six months with no other physical or psy­chiatric illnesses, plus eight of 14 other symptoms, which range from a fever to headaches, depression and for­getfulness. 
Now, the CDC has told inter­national CFS researchers that it may drop those excess 14 symptoms. The reason: New research shows CFS causes dif­ferent symptoms in different people, so the checklist may be unnecessarily strict. 

Economists say numbers don't add up 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Some economists are scoffing at the numbers in President Clinton's health plan, question­ing whether he can really cover everybody while drastically slowing medical inflation and cutting $91 billion from the fed­eral deficit. 
Martin Feldstein, a conserva­tive Harvard economist, be­lieves the plan actually would drive up the deficit by $120 bil­lion in 1997 alone. 
Even liberal economists are questioning whether Clinton can really ratchet down health inflation so rapidly without dis­rupting the care Americans get. 
"It's not that the numbers are wrong. It's whether you believe you can get those sav­ings as quickly as their model suggests," said Stuart Altman, a Brandeis University econo­mist who was a Clinton health adviser during the transition. 
"Most people are very suspi­cious that you just won't be able to get those savings that fast. And if you'd try, you'd cause all kinds of havoc," said Altman. 
Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said, "On this issue, Ross Perot is right: You really have to look under the hood or maybe even take the carbure­tor apart to know how realistic these numbers are." 
But Reischauer said it is im­possible to offer any real analy­sis of Clinton's plan until he submits detailed legislation to Congress next month. "Simply changing an 'and' to an 'or' or moving commas around can swing billions of dollars," he said. 
Apart from a leaked 239-page draft summary, the White House has released only rudi­mentary figures about the cost of guaranteeing health cover­age for all Americans while cut­ting medical inflation in half by the end of the 1990s. 
It envisions $350 billion in new federal spending from 1995 through 2000, including $160 billion in insurance subsi­dies for small businesses and individuals. 
It is counting on $441 billion in savings or new revenues over that same period, with more than half coming from Medicare and Medicaid. It hopes the changes will allow it to reduce the deficit by $91 bil­lion. 


Winner of the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Cosponsored by: 

Tuesday, September 
•Smdent 
Government •Kellogg Center for International Studies 

•Campus 
Ministry •Government and International Studies 

•Center 
for Social Concerns •and other campus organizations 



28, 1993 8:00 PM 
•Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
4!l'\1DII 

Ms. Williams was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize (with Mairead Conigan) for her work to promote peac~ i:r: _N~rthe~n Irelcm,d. Her ongoing work involves numerous peace Initiatives InternatiOnally. As a Catholic woman whose faith has inspired her work for peace, she has much to share with our community. 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 28, 1993 

New York tourist shot Convicts given prision reprieve 
and killed in Florida 
By RICHARD COLE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Just as travel agents from Germany were getting a VIP tour to persuade them to keep sending tourists to Florida, an­other out-of-state visitor was shot to death on a Miami high­way. 
The seemingly senseless killing unleashed a new flurry of negative publicity about crime against visitors in a state with a $31 billion a year tourist industry. 
Miguel Sanchez, 40, of New York City, was gunned down Sunday night while going to a restaurant. 
A motorist pulled alongside his cousin's car and fired a sin­gle shot through the passenger window, hitting Sanchez in the head. 
"At this point we really do not have a motive," said Metro­Dade police spokesman Ralph Fernandez. 
No arrests were made, he said. 
In New York, a relative said members of Sanchez's family had urged him not to go to Florida. 
"They told him not to go .. .I guess he didn't think it would happen to him," said Olga Morales, Sanchez's sister-in­law. 
The attack on Sanchez fol­lows the slayings of 10 foreign tourists in Florida in the past year. 
The shooting couldn't have come at a worse time, said Aldo Rinaldi, president of Sun Tours Inc .. which helped bring 22,000 Germans to Florida last year. 
Rinaldi had 15 German travel agents in Key West on Monday as part of a campaign to calm European tourists frightened away by the violence. 
"It's already on TV in Germany," groaned Rinaldi, whose new bookings are only half the 400 to 500 a month he once averaged. "We've been battling here left and right -I don't know what to do any­more." 
One of those German travel agents called the anti-Florida publicity unfair. 
"In the big cities, downtown, we have the same problem in 
Germany," said Sharon Douzart of Mannheim. 
The killing is symptomatic of problems across the country, said state Sen. James Hargrett of Tampa. He and other black Florida legislators discussed urban violence in a symposium last week. 
"The rest of the world has the chance to see its future by looking at Florida," Hargrett said. "Across the nation, in every metropolitan area, there is a Third World community ­a little Somalia -with people running around in the street with guns." 
Gov. Lawton Chiles has stumped the state over the past month, promising more secu­rity while emphasizing that vio­lence against both tourists and Florida residents has dropped in recent years. 
"The state seems to be under a microscope right now," com­plained the governor's spokesman, Ron Sachs. "The State Department of Commerce has shown fairly clearly (that) less than one tenth of one per­cent of the millions of visitors in Florida confront the prospect of becoming a victim of crime." 
The violence has had a lim­ited short-term effect with "a scattering of cancellations. but not a mass exodus," said de­partment spokeswoman Joy Mills. 
"But it's very difficult to mea­sure the long-term impact," she said. "It hasn't helped, but how much it's hurt we're just not sure." 
A real estate group, BOMA International, announced last week it would switch its January meeting from Miami to Phoenix because of the vio­lence, the first Miami cancella­tion after the recent problems. 
Road safety received renewed scrutiny following the Sept. 8 slaying of a German tourist, Uwe-Wilhelm Rakebrand, dur­ing a robbery attempt in a car near Miami International Airport. 
Days later, the governor ordered extra state officers to help patrol the expressways. 
On Sept. 14, British tourist Gary Colley was fatally shot at an Interstate 10 rest stop in northern Florida during a rob­bery attempt. 
"When I heard Clarissa was giving a 
party, I felt I couldn't not come ..." 
·-Virginia Woolf, Mrs. Dalloway 

at 

St. Mary's 
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 8 p.m. -Midnight 
~# 


\({)~~~ True North 
Come celebrate the beginning of our third season! 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Officer Laurence Powell had already spent his first night in prison for the Rodney King beating and Sgt. Stacey Koon was just surrendering when a judge suddenly allowed them to go free Monday. 
U.S. District Judge John Davies gave Powell and Koon about two weeks to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, setting Oct. 12 as the new date .for them to start serving their 2 1/2-year sentences. 
Both men had faced a dead­line of noon Monday for check­ing into the Dublin Federal Prison Camp, a converted mili­tary barracks without bars or fences 40 miles east of San Francisco. 
Powell surrendered at the prison Sunday afternoon. Koon arrived at 11:30 a.m. Monday, around the time Davies issued his ruling, and hadn't yet been processed. 
They left together in a car. about 3 1/2 hours later, said prison official John Orla. 
Attorney William Kopeny, representing the two, said he would file an emergency re­quest Tuesday with U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, asking that the men be allowed to remain free on bail while they appeal their convictions and sentences. O'Connor oversees California matters. 
Koon, Powell and two other white policemen were charged in the March 1991 beating of King, a black motorist stopped after a chase. A shocking videotape of the beating was broadcast repeatedly world­wide. 
The officers' acquittals on state charges in 1992 led to deadly rioting in Los Angeles and other cities. The officers were tried this year on federal charges of violating King's civil rights. Koon and Powell were convicted; officers Theodore Briseno and Timothy Wind were acquitted. 
In August, Davies gave Koon and Powell surprisingly lenient 30-month sentences that were criticized by prosecutors and King. Davies said King himself was to blame for many of the blows he suffered in the beat­ing. 
The judge refused to let the officers go free on bail while they appealed, and last week the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals rejected their request for a bail hearing. 
Two of the appeals judges is­sued a strongly worded 10­page dissent arguing for bail, however. and in his ruling Monday. Davies said O'Connor should be given time to review their arguments and see if she is swayed by them. 
U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters, a Democrat whose South Central district was hard hit by the 1992 riots, said that Davies "sent the wrong signal" by de­laying the sentences. 
"Judge Davies acted irre­sponsibly and is exacerbating an already tense situation." she said in a statement. "There is a perception in the African­American community that there is a double standard at work in our criminal justice system." 
Kopeny, the officers' lawyer, said he didn't believe Davies gave them special treatment. 
At the 244-bed prison camp, inmates are housed four to a room and work from 7 a.m. to 
3:45 p.m. in such manual labor jobs as landscapers, cooks and roofers for 12 to 14 cents an hour. 
Last week, Powell was de­scribed by attorney Michael Stone as "terrified" of prison. Powell remained out of sight in the last few weeks, even miss­ing his police Board of Rights hearing, where a panel rec­ommended that he be fired. 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Graduate Page Editor 
lA Notre Dame graduate student interested in editing a weekly page focusing on graduate issues. 

College Page Editor 
A Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student interested in editing a page examining other campuses. 
Please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by Friday, October 1. Call 631-4 542 ifyou have questions about either position. 



ROBERT KENNEDY JR. 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 7 7:30PM STEPAN $3 Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 




a = 6 c Zl -a a 


l BUSINESS l 
Tuseday, September 28, 1993 page? ~ 
Lobbying Modern instruction of accounting introduced for NAFTA 
By NICK VAKKUR increase will allow to students primarily oriented towards lec­These programs also place Business Writer to receive a masters degree ture and note taking, he said. an unnecessary emphasis on while at the same time meet This years class, however, rote learning as opposed to

heats up 
The Department of newly established requirements has been reorganized in order overall conceptual understand­Accounting of the College of of the American Institute of to better prepare students to ing. "If you teach students how By STEFAN FATSIS Business Administration, with Certified Public Accountants, meet the business demands of to learn, they will not have to 
Associated Press 
the monetary assistance of a which will take effect by the the future, and calls for a much memorize," said InstructorNEW YORK 
grant from the Accounting year 2000. larger emphasis on interactive Tammy Mittelstaedt. Education Change Commission, The requirements pertain to learning. Both Frecka and Mittelstaedt
In the battle over NAFTA, is currently revamping its members of the Institute who Frecka added that the cite the need for today's ac­
some companies are wooing 
approach to teaching under­wish to practice as Certified Department of Accounting countants and business profes­potential supporters with offers graduates accounting. Public Accountants. plans to use the changes made sionals to be able to think ana­that might be difficult to refuse. 
The shift to a new and more According to a recent article in this individual course as a lytically, understand theCorporate titans such as the modern curriculum is part of a published in the Journal of future catalyst for all further macroscopic business envi­Big Three automakers and Wal­nationwide movement already Accountancy by Doyle Williams, curriculum revisions necessary. ronment,. and to be able toMart are soliciting backing from underway to bring undergrad­chairman of the Accounting Tammy Mittelstaedt, Adjunct solve complex, unstructuredemployees, suppliers and even uate accounting education Education Change Commission, Instructor of Accounting, problems for which there isshareholders for passage of the more in line with the actual the University of Notre Dame helped to develop some of the often not always one correct
North American Free Trade 
demands students will face in was one of only a select few changes that have already been answer.
Agreement. 
their professional careers, ac­undergraduate institutions made. "The new format for the Frecka, along with theThe activity reflects the high cording to Department Chair nationwide to actually receive a class more adequately reflects Accounting Education Changestakes in the multimillion-dollar 
Tom Frecka. curriculum development grant. what students will be doing Commission, feels such skills
campaign for congressional 
"The primary thrusts of the Frecka said that the grant once they graduate", said will more effectively prepareapproval of the trade pact link­new developments in our pro­money is currently being Mittelstaedt. She cites the need students for the real world ofing the United States, Canada 
gram are to emphasize those applied toward revising the for today's accounting and business.
and Mexico. 
skills employers are saying stu­present selection of course business students to develop a So far, he is more thanCompanies insist the pleas 
dents really need," said Frecka. offerings. broader range of skills than happy with the response from
for support come without 
Additionally, he said that the The initial and most dramatic may have been necessary in the students. However, he said that strings. 
department plans to revamp changes, according to Frecka past. he is far from complacentBut NAFTA opponents and the entire accounting curricu­have been to restructure the Mittelstaedt also stated that regarding the progress that has lobbying watchdogs say the tac­lum gradually, so that by the introductory course, older, more traditional pro­been made thus far, noting that 
tics amount to inappropriate 
year 2000 students majoring in Accounting 231. Students who grams fail to develop in stu­it is the continual openness to pressure on workers and small­accounting will be able to re­took the course last year under dents adequate oral presenta­the possibility of change which er businesses to join a political ceive 150 credit hours of class­the previous format received tion skills and the ability to will allow further improve­campaign. 
room instruction. He said this classroom instruction that was work well in group settings. ments.
Take Chrysler Corp. Its chairman, Robert Eaton, asked plant managers to write mem­

Cable systems get rights Investigated savings and 
bers of Congress and follow up with calls supporting NAFTA and requesting meetings. 
for network shows loans awarded contracts
"Please put a high priority on completing these assign­
By SKIP WOLLENBERG "Murphy Brown," "60 By RICHARD KEIL showed.
ments," he wrote in the April 
memo, a copy of which was ob­Associated Press Minutes" and "Northern Associated Press Although the regulations pro­tained last week. NEW YORK Exposure." WASHINGTON vide for waivers to allow such "There's a certain subtle CBS Inc. gave up trying to While cable system opera­The government awarded at firms to get new business. the get reimbursed from cable sys­tors may have faced complaints RTC granted them for only two
measure of coercion in that least $27.1 million in recent 
tems Monday and agreed to let if their systems no longer carry of the 42 contracts.
message that says 'if you're savings and loan cleanup con­loyal to this company you will them carry CBS-owned televi­CBS-owned stations, analysts tracts to two accounting firms A member of the House com­have this opinion,"' said Angela sion stations free for a year. said CBS stood to lose even it was simultaneously mittee that oversees RTC The decision appeared to more if its stations and shows expressed outrage that such
Ledford, field director for the investigating for contributing Citizens Trade Campaign, the demonstrate the ascendance of were no longer readily avail­to thrift failures, documents firms are getting contracts and umbrella group for NAFTA the cable industry over broad­able to viewers in key markets. show. escaping the waiver process. casters in the TV industry. CBS owns stations in New York, "We were pretty dead seri­
opponents. The rules for the Resolution 
No efforts were made to CBS had been seeking cash Chicago, Los Angeles, Trust Corp., which oversees ous that those that caused this 
contact unionized auto workers, or clearance for new cable net­Philadelphia, Miami, the government's S&L cleanup problem should not be benefit­who oppose NAFTA on grounds works. Minneapolis and Green Bay, effort, say firms cannot receive ing from this," said Rep. Bruce it could result in a job shift to Laurence A. Tisch, CBS Wis. new business if they are being Vento, D-Minn., a member of Mexico. chairman and chief executive, A standoff on the issue of sued, have caused losses of the House Banking Committee. 
But Alan Reuther, the United accused the cable industry of compensation could have more than $50,000 or are un­A spokesman for the RTC Auto Workers' chief Washington shooting down several of its ca­meant CBS would lose critical der investigation for contribut­suggested the agency inter­lobbyist, said even white-collar ble ideas. Among them: a chan­segments of the TV audience, ing to S&L failures. prets its regulations liberally. managers may be reluctant to nel combining newsgathering hurting its standing as the But New York-based Coopers "The way we work ... is we 
back NAFTA "because I think a efforts of the network and its leader in prime time audience & Lybrand was awarded 25 don't take any adverse action 
lot of them worry about losing affiliates; an entertainment ratings and possibly reducing contracts worth $22.6 million against the contractor until the 
their plants." channel featuring vintage CBS what it could charge advertis­from January 1992 to July lawsuit is filed," said Marty 
NAFTA could face a congres­comedies and dramas; and a ers for commercial time. 1993 while it was under inves­Blumenthal, RTC's manager of 
sional vote this fall. Proponents sports-news channel. CBS had been a key propo­tigation in the failure of a New contractor ethics. 
"We do not believe it is fair nent of the legislation enacted
argue it will create jobs by ex­Mexico thrift, according to RTC panding U.S. markets. to punish viewers in the mar­last year that gave broadcast­documents reviewed by The Both firms were being inves­Opponents say it will prompt kets in which we own television ers the right to seek compensa­Associated Press. tigated for conducting faulty 
U.S. companies to move jobs to stations for the intransigence of tion from cable system opera­And a second frrm, Chicago­audits that falsely portrayed the cable operators in their tors for carrying broadcast sta­the financial health of ailing
lower-wage Mexico. based Grant Thornton, re­
NAFT A critics say big cor­communities," Tisch said. tions on the cable system. ceived 17 contracts worth $4.5 S&Ls, which were their clients 
porations wield an unspoken CBS gave in despite having a But major cable system million over the same period before they failed. The new 
economic power that can un­powerful arsenal of programs operators including TCI and even though it had been sued RTC contracts pay the firms to 
duly influence an opposed, un­including this year's baseball Time Warner, soon indicated in one thrift failure in 1989 help audit other failed S&L's 
they had no intention of paying the government has taken
decided or indifferent worker or World Series, the 1994 Winter and remains under investiga­
cash to re-transmit the stations. 
business associate. Olympics and series like tion in another, the documents over. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
.---....----------~-... .............--...--..,.-------........---.-------------.-----~ ··-~--· --· ----~--~-­
-------~------~--~ 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

Newo Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary'• Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 

Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Prodllcrion Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systelll5 Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan ControUer ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of <he University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside: Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EditorNiewpoint Bwiness Office Sports News/Photo 
ED MANIER 
Observer Phone Lines 
63I-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  
63I-454I  Day Editor/Production  
63I-53I3  Advertising  
631-4543  Systems/OTS  
631-5323  Office Manager  

631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 63I-8839 63I-7471 


Health plan simple enough 
Last week the news sections of the Wall Street Journal pro­vided an avalanche of detail, pro and con, concerning the Clintons' health plan, calling it an "intricate blueprint for insuring all Americans." 
I argue that the backbone of the Clintons' health plan is rela­tively simple. It is superior to each of the available alterna­tives, none of which is simpler either in basic approach nor in the patchwork, ad hoc Plan B, that each must invoke if the preferred Plan A falls short. 
The best forms of insurance manage risk in ways which in­crease the economic efficiency of risky technologies (shipping, agriculture) and of technologies which remediate the negative outcomes of risky businesses (medicine and biomedical re­search). 
Physicians and surgeons have no greater immunity to techno­logical and economic change than medieval farmers or American garment manufactur­ers; nor does the future quality of American health care depend upon protecting the good humor of physicians and drug companies who think God made them "number one." 
They will be supplanted by successors who understand the significance, in an integrated economy, of the high tech mole­cular and imaging revolutions transforming medical practice. 
Government involvement is unavoidable in any industry which must provide services to individuals who cannot afford prices which would return a profit (schools, postal service, shipping and transportation in­frastructure, social safety net, health care, etc.). Not alone can 
DOONESBURY 
ya;KNOW, J.J., !XJN'TBe I THINK. IT'S 5/UY. YOU TIM& I GOTaJT HAVfJV7fJEEt.l OF YOUR HAIR... ANY 77?{X}­
8/,&,MAR!<... 
\ 

one of these sectors continually demand 100% of the aggregate growth rate. 
Thirty seven million Ameri­cans are without health· insur­ance as health care costs continually rise twice as fast as inflation, headed toward 20% of GDP by the year 2000. If these circumstances are not reme­died, the increasing costs of health care will consume 100% of the nation's projected eco­nomic growth even as 15% of its population is left unprotect­ed against life's most basic risks. 
Can we reduce the number of uninsured while we reduce the rate of increase in health care costs? Can any form of insur­ance accomplish this? 
The Clintons' plan occupies the ground between the left (Senator Wellstone, D. Minn., who favors the Canadian "sin­gle payer" system) and right (Senate Republicans led by Dole, Kansas, Merrill Mathews and John Goodman of the National Center for Policy Analysis in Dallas, TX, who would require every individual to purchase health insurance, with federal subsidies for those whose income falls below 240% of the federal poverty level). 
Given the simplicity of the po­lar opposites represented by the Canadian system and the "informed, autonomous" indi­vidual in the medical market place, the middle ground may appear complex, an "intricate blueprint." The appearance is false. The Clintons' plan is not inherently more complex than either of the major alternatives. 
The Clintons would guarantee every citizen and legal resident of the U. S. a uniform package covering hospitalization, home health care, prescription drugs, some mental health services, dental and preventive care. Coverage could not be denied or lost as a result of illness, unemployment, or change of employment. 
Federal subsidies would assist low wage earners and the unemployed, as well as small low-wage businesses. Otherwise, employers would pay 80% of the insurance pack­age; employee.s 20%. 
Employers with less than 5000 employees would them­selves be required to purchase coverage through "health alliances," to be established by the separate states, represent­ing most employers and individ­uals in a given geographic region. 
The size of these alliances would make them more effec­tive players in the market place, enhancing competition and increasing the efficiency of the system. Larger pools of risk would lower average rates and no member would be charged higher rates because of pre-ex­isting conditions, e.g., AIDS or cancer. 
Research, development and distribution of advanced bio­medical technology would be subject to constraints long familiar in other competitive industries. The technology must incorporate an effective solu­tion to an important problem, and this solution must enable the relevant industry to offer an increasingly large flow of high quality goods and services at competitive prices. The target the Clintons' set for health care and biomedical research is a growth rate equal to that of the 
ALEFT JAB 

consumer price index (CPI). diana (or Michiana) health 
The core issue of the health cooperative among the nation's care debate is the relative best. As a region, we will have strength of three basic ways of to compete with others where insuring against the risk of ill­every sector of the regional ness and trauma: 1) a single economy pulls together to bring national payer, eliminating pri­health care costs into parity vate medical insurance; 2) with increases in the CPl. every individual, couple, or This means that every em­head of household as a player ployer in the region has a in an increasingly complex financial stake in avoiding medical market, and 3) regional practices which increase the cooperatives, health alliances cost of medical care in the or community institutions pro­region and in developing coop­viding employers and individu­erative programs which als with more powerful bar­increase the health and fitness gaining agents, and presenting of us all. them with a clearly evaluated Ed Manier is a Notre Dame set of alternative forms of professor of philosophy. cur­insurance. rently working at Harvard 
I hope we can all work to­University. His column appears gether to place the Northern In-every other Tuesday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
W&U-, OF C01../R!313­T06&T /3ACJ<.. I'M TH5!<5'5 
Wal.-, I 577L.I-HAV& WHY? 
IAJ&U... , TH& (j(}/N6 TO Ml93 NfiAJ A6AY 
TH5!<& IS. 6AYS l-IV& 
75UCTION I KNOIJJ, Ya?J<, THOU6H. I COMMUN­
&VeRY/AJHtR/3. IT'S 
JUST... UM ... IT"3 FA/3UlOU5.
I 

IT'S TH& SAM& / /..ON6 o.c. W!THTH& HE/?& \ 
~ l-11<& I 13&-ITYIN 
'?HOP:?. 

NOW. \ 
''T ay d~wn I think I love Lyou. 
-Bumper Sticker 
on a truck seen in Mishawaka 
r--l 
--~~---------~~-----~~-­
-------~ ----­
' 
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 page 9 


VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Columnist looks 
for easy way out 
Dear Editor: adultery. It was not created by a small body of men in Rome. 
In the Sept. 21 issue of The In the article, Mr. Krejci also Observer, Mark Krejci wrote an questions the authority of the abhorrent Inside Column Vicar of Christ, and the bishops proposing a new American of the Church in deciding Catholic Church, because he Church teaching. Does he real­found the current Holy Roman ize this also has a biblical basis. Catholic Church to be stagnant Christ told the disciples what in its teachings. I found the ar­they hold bound on earth shall ticle disgusting and repulsive. be held bound in heaven. The In addition, Mr. Krejci lacked a bishops are considered the de­basic understanding of Church scendents of the apostle, and teachings. that way they can determine 
what is held against you. 
One of the objections Mr. Krejci cited against the Church No one is forcing Mr. Krejci to is that the Church holds all its remain a Roman Catholic. If he rulings to be infallible. This does not the agree with teach­ignorant fool does not realize ing of the Church he should that not even a majority of the find a new Church. He takes Church's teachings come from the attitude that if a majority of infallible rulings. In fact, the people feel an action is accept­Church only holds two teach­able then it should become ings based on papal infallibility: acceptable. That attitude was The Immaculate Conception of used to justify the seizure of Mary, and the Assumption of Native American lands, and the Mary. incarceration of Japanese­
Americans during World War 
Mr. Krejci also asked "Will it II. Now Mr. Krejci is suggesting take 300 more [years] for it [the the same justification for the Church] to realize sex is not bastardization of the Roman only for procreation?" How­Catholic Church. ever, the Church already real­izes that sex is an expression of It seems to me that Mr. Krejci love within the confines of the just wants the easy way out of Dear Editor: on all the social issues men­
claim that all its rulings rep­
Sacrament of Marriage. In fact, things. But, whoever said that tioned above. The allowance of
resent the will of Christ." Yet 
the Church allows the rhythm being a Catholic, and a Chris­One can only shudder in re­women priests would sever all
the formation of an "American 
method of birth control for tian would be easy? The early sponse to the Sept. 21 article in ties to a Catholic clergy. The
Catholic Church" would take 
married couples. Christians were looked upon as the Inside Column by Mark very idea of a national Catholic
authority from the trained 
The only thing the Church being strange for the practices Krejci entitled "A new Church church is contrary to the con­
hands of theologians and place
teaches about procreation is they held. It seems as though to combat stagnancy". cept of the universal Catholic
moral decisions on the shoul­
that the possibility of procre­Catholics who follow the teach­The article suggests the for­church which we currently
ders of the untrained American 
ation cannot be inhibited ings of the Church are also mation of a new "American have. Division from the Pope
community. Does it not seem 
through artificial means. The looked upon as strange. The Catholic Church" in light of the would cut off all claims this
even more pretentious that any
church also teaches that sex early Christians could have eas­increasing disagreement of church might produce for apos­
of their rulings would represent
must be performed within the ily bowed to pagan traditions to many American Catholics on tolic succession and tradition.
the will of Christ? 
confines of marriage; however, make the Church more popu­Papal authority regarding mod­The author also suggests that The entire concept sounds the this is not a teaching the lar, yet they did not. I feel the ern social issues such as call of Protestantism. 
Notre Dame could join this 
Church arbitrarily created Catholic Church should do the women in the priesthood, con­"American Catholic Church" And so I ask you, In what pos­Adultery is defined as sex same in not bowing to the pop­traception, homosexuality and sible ways could this proposed
and also "maintain a Catholic 
outside of marriage in the Old ular will of American Catholics. divorce. church call itself Catholic?
character". This is clearly im­Testament, and is taken one The author claims that "it possible. The proposed Ameri­Clearly there are none. 
step further by Jesus who said WAYNE GOVEIA seems pretentious that a small can church would separate it­DAVID DEZERN if you think about sex it is also Alumni Hall body of individuals can pro-Cavanaugh Hall 
self from the Catholic position 
Comparison ofhomosexuals, murderers is 'ludicrous' 
Dear Editor: Catholic bishops have con­·-­demned violence against ho­
In his letter (The Observer, mosexual persons. He needs Sept. 20), Andrew Feske com­this information because his pares homosexual persons to comparison of homosexuals to serial killers. He makes this serial killers is the kind of comparison when he suggests invidious rhetoric that con­that a person (a male; in his tributes to the prevailing cli­example) who says that his mate of violence. homosexuality is morally OK By means of this comparison, because he was born gay is no he encourages his readers to be more credible than a person who says that his killings are 
morally OK because he was ' I n this country, we live born a serial killer. The impor­in a climate of vio­tant issue that Mr. Feske ad­
lence that is fed by eco­
dresses is obscured rather than clarified by this ludicrous com­nomic dislocation and parison. 
armed with easily acces­
If the absurdity of Mr. Feske's ·­comparison were its only sible handguns.' remarkable feature, I would not have written. What compels me to write is the other feature frightened of those homosexual of his comparison: its violence. persons with whom he is hav­
In this country, we live in a ing a religious argument con­climate of violence that is fed cerning sexual morality. by economic dislocation and People who are frightened armed with easily accessible and armed keep one hand on handguns. Elderly persons, the gun in their pocket. Mr. children, foreign tourists, and Feske's desire to put forward women are frequent targets of his side in the national debate this violence. As the American on homosexuality is re­Catholic bishops have recently spectable; the menacing tone of reminded us, homosexual per­his letter is not. sons are also frequent targets. 
Mr. Feske needs to be in­REV. DAVID A. GARRICK, C.S.C. formed that the American Deparrment of Comm. and Theatre 










ACCENT 
page 10 Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
Notre Dame student recognized for service commitments 
By MATIHEW HEALY Brother program, which pro­of the faith," he said, adding really involved in beginning the Accent Wri[er vides underprivileged children that his faith had been Peace Corps. I just want to with companions. strengthened by public service. uphold Notre Dame's strong 
Upholding Notre Dame's his­"When I came to Holy Cross tradition of leadership in public tory of leadership in public ser­"I'm really looking forward to and got involved in service, I service." vice is just one of the reasons really came to understand the why Christopher Ashby spends at o 1c1sm real y importance of my faith." Ashby Ashby's beliefs about service so much time working in the emphasizes the said that Notre Dame has a have inspired his interest in community. strong sense of the link politics. He is a government
value of serving others. 

Last April Ashby was honored between faith and service. major and he spent the summer at the third annual Public Service is an essential "Notre Dame has a great as an intern in Washington for Service Awards for his out­sense of community. I remem­his senator. "Government
part of the faith. When I

standing record of public ser­ber reading Father Theodore involves serving other people, vice. This program, held by the came to Holy Cross and Hesburgh's autobiography and and serving others is what I Indiana Conference of Higher seeing that Notre Dame was want to do."
got involved in service, I
Education, honors college stu­

dents who exemplify the "ideal really came to under­
of voluntary community ser­
stand the importance of 
vice." 

Ashby, then a sophomore at my faith.' Holy Cross College, was nomi­Christopher Ashby nated to represent Holy Cross Notre Dame '95 in the program. He received a plaque to commemorate this honor. 
During his two years at Holy being a big brother," he admit­Cross Ashby participated in a ted. "That will definitely be my number of community service main service project." Ashby programs, many of them spon­will balance this project with sored by Notre Dame's Center his classes and his part-time for Social Concerns. He has job at the University Club. given his time to the South "My main focus needs to be Bend Center for the Homeless, academics, but I'll still be in­Urban Plunge, Walk for volved with projects like Urban Hospice, Christmas in April and Plunge and Christmas in April." Logan Center. Ashby cited religion as his 
main inspiration to perform 

Ashby is now a junior at public service. Notre Dame. He said he plans "Catholicism really empha­to continue his habits of service sizes the value of serving oth­by participating in the Big ers. Service is an essential part 
MUSIC REVIEW ROB ADAMS 
House of Love returns with Audience 
By ROB ADAMS the world for music and probably has With the Mind is a bit less frantic as if Accenr Writer been for the past 50 to 60 years. The one there is still madness, but the need for thing I do believe is that Americans, more asylum is easier to accept. 
The House of Love's third CD of the so than anyone else in the world, like good A batch of brooding acoustic guitars sur­1990s, Audience With the Mind, has been tunes," said Chadwick. round the title track, Chadwick's beauti­released as the UK natives again attempt The House of Love was formed in 1986 fully pensive essay on separation of mind to conquer the ears of the United States. as a five-member band in Camberwall, from body, in which his deep melodic 
After a "perfectionist attitude" toward South London. Led by the multi-talented growl wonders, "What is wrong with their 1992 album Babe Rainbow, gui­songwriting megalomaniac Chadwick, the anarchy? Is it so pretentious to search for tarist/vocalist Guy Chadwick, bassist Chris group took its name from an erotic novel freedom," but concludes "My head's a
-· Groothuizen, and drummer Pete Evans by the French author Anais Nin. rocket full of gin" and "I have what some tried to be "raw and uncompromising" as Chadwick's lyric-writing centers around would feel is a dangerous mind." they recorded this disc in the early months an individual's passions, concerns, and "Sweet Anatomy" opens Audience pow­of 1993. The new sound is designed to feelings. erfully with a painfully reverberatin_g gui­obtain success in the United States at the Although Babe Rainbow contained tar riff. a series of forceful bass projec­same level that they do in Europe. songs with themes concerning suicide, tions, and a consistently manic, almost 
"America is the most important place in delusion, and the apocalypse, Audience primitive, drum beat. As she did on many of the cuts on Babe Rainbow, Andrea Heukamp graces this new track with superb backing vocals. Oddly enough, Chadwick's vocals are overshadowed here; he makes a conscious effort to stand behind the throbbing groove as if it is just

r(!l;~ 
too intense to dominate. 
All of this has changed by "Into the Tunnel," an eight-minute extravaganza in 

r,~l 
~ ~ ~...
,..

\ ~. which Chadwick declared, "Love, at times••• like this, is not the question one should answer!fhe devil in your mind will make
~ 

• that plain" behind a beat which speeds
-· and slows at his discretion; truly Chadwick is in control here. Heukamp again juggles vocals with Chadwick mar­velously. Audience ends with "You've got to Feel," an apparent update of their 1992 UK hit, "Feel," which intensifies Chadwick's need to be on the same spiri­tual level as the subject of the song. The track ends as the drums slowly dissolve, the bass halts, and only an acoustic guitar accompanies Chadwick's wailing, the result of his already forgotten plea. Through Audience With the Mind, the House of Love have created music with more of an edge than on previous discs, but lyrically, Chadwick's screams of terror have become moans of introspective 
PhotocourtesyFontana regret· undoubtedly this is regret that House of Love members Pete Evans, Guy Chadwick, and Chris Groothuizen release their latest should, be pitied. ' album Audience with the Mind. 


MEDICAL MINUTE 

How to avoid the 'Kissing Disease' 
By RYAN). GRABOW EMT-B,W 
During these "pleasant" fall months here under the Dome, we are exposed to a greater risk of infection due to the close quarters of our dorms, the dry heat in our rooms and the minor colds we seem to constantly fight from September to March. 
At this time we are especially vulnerable to one of the most dreaded of the "college" dis­eases-MONO (infectious mononucleosis). Affectionately known as "The Kissing Disease" because the disease can be transmitted via saliva, mono is a viral infection that can cause many problems for any student unfortunate enough to contract it. 
The early symptoms of mono are very similar to those of the flu: fever, headache, sore throat and extreme exhaustion are experienced very shortly after infection. Within a day or two of the onset of these symp­toms, the lymph nodes in the neck and possibly in the armpits and groin may begin to swell. Not surprisingly these areas will be very tender to the touch. 
The spleen and liver may become enlarged and a skin rash may develop. Minor liver damage may also occur, lead­ing to jaundice (yellowish skin tone) for a few days. If you notice any of these symptoms, you should see a doctor to be tested for the disease. 
Due to its viral origin, mono does not respond to antibiotics, and in some cases the symp­toms may even be worsened by them. Most patients recover after four to six weeks with rest and fluids. Rest is needed for a month or so to allow the body's immune system to destroy the virus. In rare cases, corticosteroid drugs, such as Hydrocortisone, are required to reduce severe swelling, especially if the ton­sils are inflamed so that they obstruct breathing. 
The real tragedy surrounding this disease is its long term ef­fect. In many cases unusual fa­tigue, depression and exhaus­tion can persist for as long as a year before the patient feels completely better. 
In addition to these symp­toms, the swelling of the spleen associated with the disease will prevent the patient from par­ticipating in all contact sports and any strenuous activities until the swelling subsides. 
How can we protect our­selves from this disease? As with any viral disease, preven­tion begins with hygiene. Wash your hands frequently. Don't rub your eyes or nose (primary entry points for viruses) with dirty hands. Don't kiss or share a drink with anyone having symptoms of the disease. Most importantly get as much rest as much as possible and eat three nutritious meals a day to help keep your immune system strong. 

--------~----------~~~--..--~--~--~-----------------­
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 

Soccer 
continued from page 16 
DePaul 3-0 in Chicago. Though the odds definitely seem to be in the Irish's favor, the team does not want to get into the same situation they were in two weeks ago. 
On September 10, Notre Dame hosted Butler University after winning the Met-Life Classic. The Irish seemed to overlook their conference foe, and the Bulldogs made them pay for it, shocking Notre Dame with a 4-2 win. 
"We won't have a letdown against against DePaul," con­tinued Berticelli. "We had a letdown against Butler earlier this year. Our players learned from that." 
The Blue Demons are led offensively by Mark Suda and Klaus Lunde, who was last year's Newcomer of the Year in the Great Midwest Conference. The Irish will need a strong game from goalie Bert Bader, and forward Tim Oates, the team scoring leader with 11 points. 

Volleyball 
continued from page 16 
Wendy Fahlstrom, who has amassed 187 kills despite only hitting .161. Jennifer Skarp is the most effective player, notching 156 kills and a .219 percentage from her middle­blocker position. 
As for the Irish, the team showed that it can compete with the best in the country, but now has to show consisten­cy. 
"We had three tough matches this weekend, so fatigue may be a factor," explained Brown. "Now we have to turn around and play well against DePaul." 
Motivation should not be a problem for the upperclass­men, who will remember a loss to the Blue Demons two years ago. 
Following a strong perfor­mance against SW Missouri St., the Irish bench looks to contin­ue its improvement as it will likely see significant playing time. Freshmen Kristina Ervin and Jen Briggs both had good tournaments, and hope to work their way into the regular rota­tion. 

•The American Volleyball Coaches Association selected Christy Peters as their national player of the week Monday, after she led the Irish in their upset of Nebraska. 
Peters was also named the Midwestern Collegiate Conference player of the week for the second week in a row. She had 19 kills and 21 digs against the Cornhuskers and 64 kills, 53 digs, and nine blocks for the tournament. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. a1 me Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 P..m. at 309 Haggar CoUege Center. DeatUine for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classtlieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character p<:r day, including all spaces. 
GREEKS & CLUBS  $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­ NEED TICKETS  ATTENTION SOPHOMORESIIII  
NOTICES  RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST  ETS FOR PITT, FLORIC1A STATE AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT  I need tickets for these games: BC (student ticket)  Need 2·4 Pitt GA's · Katie 273·6324 $  Class Mass is Oct. 3, 2:00p.m. at  
ONE WEEK! For your fraternity,  273-6588.  PITT (student and GAs)  the Grotto. (If rain: Keenan­ 
Typing  sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for  Call Jen or Nicky at X1308  ool need 2 GAs for the USC gameoo  Stanford Chapel)  
287-4082  yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just for calling. 1·800·932-0528, ext. 75.  FSU TIX NEEDED!!IIIIII CALL CRAIG @273·3942  SALE 2 PITT & BC GA's  Please call Tara at 4 • 4975  Father Miscamble will preside.  -.  
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS  PLEASE!!  Call Dan x3666  Need 2 Pitt GAs &  
RUNNING AND EATING PAN­ ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries.  6 Fl St (Any Comb)  
CAKES. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ Earn up to $2000-$4000 or more  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Mike-1862  Don't miss this opportunity to cele­ 
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  per month on fishing vessels or in  MATT@ 232-3870  Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201­ brate Mass with friends!  
FOR MORE INFO.  canneries. Many companies provide  217-Q030 (W) 201·992·8700  I NEED tickets for PITT and FSU ­ 
transportation and room & board.  ND vs USC • Need tickets for  student or GA's. Please call  Four blind, red-headed nymphos  
Professional Typing  No experience necessary. Male or  10/23 game.Chris Marks  **HOT BABE**HOT BABE**HOT**  Christine at 273-4803.  from Fordham are begging for USC  
Dissertations, Term Papers  Female. For more information  800·523-3139.  tickets. Will pay with cash or their  
Reasonable Rates  call: 1·206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Needs 1 Male and 1 Female  PLEASE HELP!! I I NEED 1 GA OR  bodies. Want to see if the rumors  
2n-7406  Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any  STUD ticket for USC.  STU. TICKET FOR PITT. CALL  about Irish men are true. Call4­ 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!  combination. $Call Amy 2658  CALL x: 27031/ask for ELLIEII  KELLY @ 4-4270  4212 ask for Betty.  
Chicago-based corporation recently  Individuals and Student  
Notre Dame licensed seeks local  Organizeations wanted to promote  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  BABE**HOT BABE**HOT BABE**  NEED PITT STD. X4022  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
agent to sell T-shirts, sportswear,  the Hottest Spring Break  GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  
etc. OFF CAMPUS only; sopho­ Destinations, call the nation's  GA:s 2773097  Heading home?  Hey Off-campus seniors ....  
more or junior preferred. Generous  leader. Inter-Campus Programs  Watching FSU·Miami?  
commission. Call Tracy @ (BOO)  1-800-327 ·6013  #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  NEED PITT tix X3731 • Reeny  The PW talent show needs youll  
551-Q035.  Sell me your PITT stud  
WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES  Help! I need four tickets to the  Need GA's to any Home Game  call Scott 3586  We are having it on Thursday, Sept  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  TO RUN. DOMER RUN· SATUR­ Boston College game ....  232-1852  30 in Theodores ....  
CALL 259·8684.  DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL631·6100  SOyd FLORIDA STATE SOyd  
FOR MORE INFO.  If you would like to make a hot  2-50 yd. line, row 20, GA's for sale  It's big time now so get your acts  
ILOST&FOUNDI  In need of a business statistics  babe's day with 4 tlx, call Elisa at 634-2703...  Need 1 USC G.A.I Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s  Best offer over $300 ea. Also need any 1 student or GA  together and call Jen Marten at 634­2706 to sign upl!!l  
tutor. will pay $. Call Deanna  Call Karen at 4-4987.  Call Barney@ 277-8135  
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east  @ 284-5007 ASAP!  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
side of the library on a ledge: dorm  4sale Pitts tix x4405  AHOY MATIESI! NEED 2 PITT  
keys and car keys. Call Doug at  I'm driving to Miami Oh this  HAVE GA's EACH HM GM  AND 1 USC (STU OR GA) FOR  Hey PWites ...  
234-6306 to claim.  weekend and would like a rider.  271-1681  Need FSU stud tix  OLD SHIPMATES COMING TO  
Todd 1251  call Aaron @ 272-3418  TOWN. BOB X4529  The talent show is coming ...  
Lost: Green army-type bookbag  Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA  
with German book and dictionary.  Need FSU tickets, stud or GA  Need Pitt GA's  I NEED ONE BC TIX & MANY  We need acts!!  
Reward. 237-0659.  LOOKING FOR MOTHER'S  Call Dave at 4-3507  Call Andy @ 3654  PITT TIX· STUDENT OR GA  Be daring...Be bold...You don't have  
HELPER WHO ENJOYS CHIL­ 271·7047  to have any real talent...just be cre­ 
Found· Silver necklace. Call271·  DREN. FLEX HRS (an afternoon &  Please help my Uncle live a lifelong  ative!II  
2911 to identify  a couple of AM's). CALL 232-6755.  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  dream: I need 2 BC GA's and a  MBA STUDENT SEEKS 2 TICK·  
&  female student ticket. Call Sean at  ETS FOR FAMILY TO USC GAME.  The big event will be at 7 p.m. in  
Found • Gold bracelet @ Campus  2 BCSTUDTIX  4-3479  PLEASE CALL RICH X-4-4499  Theodores on Thursday, Sept. 30.  
View Apts. Call 273·5909 to identify  WANTED· PHYSICS TUTOR  x2300  To sign up, see Jen Marten.  
NEED EXTRA $? HELP ME  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Found -Elizabeth A.__,  LEARN PHYSICS 217. CALL  NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need FSU Stu. & Ga's Eric x1087  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
I found your football tix in  COLLEEN AT 284-5407  Please call Lisa after  NEED FSU TICKETS  
DeBartolo.  SOON!  5 P.M. at 232·2728.  CALL JOHN 271-1706  
Call 273-6405  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I NEED GA'S FOR PITT,USC & BC  $800 WEEKLY POSSIBLE!  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NICKX17n  Working at home! 37 different  
I LEFT MY WALLET IN THE FIRST  Help! We have sore butts, so we  lmportant!lll!!ll!llllllllllllll!  opportunities. Rush $1 and self­ 
RACKET BALL COURT LAST  need a couch or sofa. Do you have  Need 2 or 4 GA's for BC  NEED UP TO 6 USC GEN. ADM.  addressed stamped envelope to:  
NIGHT AT THE ROCK. I WOULD  an old one? $60 or less?  NO Alum-Fanatic  4 SALE: PITT USC and BC TIX @  TIX. PLEASE CALL KATHY COL­ L. Miko  
REALLY APPRECIATE GETTING MY 10 BACK. IF THERE IS STILL MONEY IN THE WALLET I WILL BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO  Call us! x3043 or x3041LFORRENT  Will pay any price! !Ill!!! Call Katie 4-3390 (leave message)  273.0531 WILL TRADE 2 PITT. OR 2 FSU FOR 2 USC. ·TONY X3102  LECT (301) 737·5520. HELP I I NEED PITT  1649 Turtle Creek Ct. South Bend, IN 46637  
OFFER A REWARD. CALL ME  
 NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND·FLA  ANDBCGA's.  Larimore-I hope your knee gets  
BRYAN MEYER #2115 OR LEAVE  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ Needed -2 tickets for Pittsburgh/NO  CALL AMY X4952  better soon !I You have to get out  
IT WITH MY RECTOR AT STAN·  NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  8826 AFTER 5 PM  Game. Call 634-4023  there and play again SOON ...and oi  
FORD HALL.  271·0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2  course I won't miss any of your  
MACHINE.  NEED 2 FSU GA's  USC GA'S Frank 232·2256  games this yearll (Keep up my  
FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD HEART  WANTED: 2 USC GA's.  FOR DAD'S BUSINESS FRIENDS  good reputation!) Love, Tara  
RING IN DBRT BATHROOM CALL  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES·  FROM FLORIDA WITH LOTS OF  WANTED FOUR TICKETS TO NO  
KRISTEN AT: 4·2780  ND/SMC EVENTS  Will trade 2 BC Married St Tix  GREEN II $$$ IS NO OBJECT!  FSU. CALL COLLECT 619  
(219) 291-7153  (no 10 needed) and$$$$.  CALL DOUG X1067  942 5030.  
LOST: Gold Camel Pendant some­ Call Dan @ 273·1497  Hey Jackie Knudson-Here's your  
where on North Quad. VERY SEN­ BE1d & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ I have 2 STANGA's  personallll  
TIMENTAL· REWARD!  Private.  I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY  Call Dave #1493 ASAP  
Call Amy@ x1334 Please help!  257-9101  MIKE x2292  NEED 2 BYU TIXI  Congratulations GORBYIII  
PLS CALL (801)484-7108  Have 1 FSU & 1 BC stud. to  
LOST: VARSITY JACKET AT 200  LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  HELP!! NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­ TRADE for 2 USC GA's  
HAGGAR ON 9/17. REWARD.  SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  WILL SELL 1 PITT GA  Will give big bucks and parents  Chi-Chi @1200  
CALL 4-2915.  C.ll,MPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM·  CALL HELEN x4026  weekend GA's for FSU GA's. Call  Top 10 FARLEY SYR Quotes  
PUS $225. M0.272·6306  Mike at X16201  WOMEN have needs  
WANTED  PITT AND USC GA s WANTED FOR RICH  Desperately seeking 3 Pitt GA's or  PERSONAL  Do you think I can get away with it Why Milwakee?l'm from Wise ..  
GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  ALUMNI $$$232-1348  Stud. Call Brian at 4-1553  You really ROCK my world!  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR·  Hey N.,where is your date?  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235.  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  It's not just a phase. glnd/smc po  If K .. calls,come to get me  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  I NEED two Pitt GA's  194 NO IN 46556  Let's go out for a SMOKE,again  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  BUS. 232·8444.  DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST  Call Matt at x1686  He did have a great personality  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  WISH: SEE PITT VS. ND NEED 2  Homophobia is a choice. glnd/smc  Get out,FIRE!buy guys we have 5  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800·  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  PITT GA'S DONALD x1724.  I NEED PITT TICKETS  po 194 NO IN 46556  min.left  
678-6386!  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR·  You aren't a SWIMMER!  
DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME  CALL AMANDA @ 232-6984  What a way to END a night,Are you  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT· Make money teaching basic conver­ EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE, ,BUS. 232-8444.  GAME. MIKE @ 1724  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­agement and security to the pre­ been sarcastic?  
sational English abroad. Japan,  Need 2 GAs for any home game  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to  Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  Call Tim at 273·1757  time mom and loving dad; married  
$2000-$4000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other bene­ FOR SALE  12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please  In Loving Memory of: FISH, The Black  
fits. No previous training or teaching  NEED 2 PITT GA'S MIKE x1534  I need 1 USC ticket: student or GA.  call Phil and Maureen at (800)545·  Beloved tankmate of SilverFish I  
certificate required. For more infor­ '83 FORD ESCORT, 4 dr, air  Please call Steph at 273-6548.  8195.  and SilverFish II; possible creator of  
mation call: (206)632·1146 ext  must sell today • going back to  numerous baby fish, likely con­ 
J5584  Australia. $700 or best offer  NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194.  NEED 2 PITT GA OR STUD TIX.  sumer of said fish. Buried at sea 9­ 
273-9042  JOHN X3403  WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES  25. Please direct any donations to  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ 4 Football Tickets Notre Dame/BYU  PANCAKES AND IS WILLING TO  NO SID Tank Beautification/Copier  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  (801)798-2340 Evenings.  Wanted: One Gen Ad tix for Pitt  RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET  Repair fund.  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For more  [ TICKETS  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  and SIX for BCIIIII Call Colleen x2785 soon! Will pay$$$$$$$$ ALUM needs to trade (2)BC GA's  THEM. DOMER RUN· SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL631-6100 FOR MORE INFO.  Rose,H_______s H_____s  
information call 1-206-634-0468  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-47g­ for (2) USC or (2)PITT-call Jim  Get the first one, not the second.  
ext.C5584  TIXS.272-6306  1429  collect 313-478-6028  FREE THE NAKED 4 II  

! 
Breen Philips will play Howard Hall in the battle of the unbeatens in the featured game of tomorrow night's three. Both are tied with records of 1-0. 
Number four seed Howard has been practicing extremely hard to face their opponents on Wednesday. "We're really excited about the game," co­captain Lynn Quenan stated. "Breen Philips is one of the best teams on campus and we've worked really hard to play them." 
The Breen Philips team is 

.-ranked number five, right behind Howard. The Breen Philips players are expecting a good game as they have prac­ticed very hard for the game. "We know it'll be a tougher game tomorrow as they have a tough defense and a good team," player Michelle Hurst stated. "We will not be able to score against Howard as easily as we did against Lyons," coach Chris Jones said. "Hopefully our defense will be better prepared this week." That defense gave up 35 points in last Thursday night's game. That may not be so easy due to injuries to two starters on the Blitz's defense, but the team has added new plays and is working on their defense in hopes of a win. 
Pangborn vs. Lyons 
In the battle of the winless, Pangborn takes on the defend­ing Lyons Hall. Pangborn has not yet won, but are hoping to turn their streak around in the upcoming game. 
"We got off to a rough start on our first game," team cap­tain Karen Kolodziej stated. "We are ready to come out fighting." 
The team as a whole is young and lacking in experience, but has a lot of talent. "We want to pull together to get a win," Kolodziej added. 
The Lyons team also has a record of 0-1, and will do their best to come out winners in the game to come. They dropped their first game to B. P. in an offensive shootout. 
Walsh vs Badin 
Walsh who had been thought to be the team to beat this sea­son already has one loss and faces number one ranked Badin. 
Badin is undefeated and is ranked number one. The Walsh team is anticipating a good game and their spirits are up to play the undefeated Badin team. 
The Walsh team is coming in the game after a disappointing loss to Howard last week. "They're a good team, so we've practiced that much harder," player Kerri Carpenter stated. "It'll be a good game." 
The Badin team is on top and are expecting many chal­lenging games to come. They are practicing very hard to stay on top. 
page 12 

B. P., Howard in 
clash of unbeatens highlights games 
by CRISTINA CORONADO Sports Writer 
A Night of Hispanic Culture! Peter Blach and Carmen Lucca at LaFortune Ballroom starting at 7 p.m. on Sept. 29 

The Observer • WOMEN'S INTERHALL Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
P. W. ups record to 2-0 against rival P. E. 


By SCOTT CLEMENTE Spores Writer 
Pasquerilla West raised their record to 2-0 by dropping rival Pasquerilla East 14-0 during Sunday night's Women's inter­hall action. 
In their first two games P.W. has outscored opponents 35-0. 
This time the offense was provided by senior quarterback Bethany Riddel and sophomore Kristen Hellenbrook. 
Riddel gave P.W. a 6-0 lead in the first half with her scramble for a score. 
In the second half, Helenbrook contributed to the scoring with a two-yard run. Riddel then scored on the two­point conversion which made the score 14-0. 
"Our defense held them at bay throughout the game." said coach Jamie Irvin, who was obviously pleased with his team. Backing up his claim was Kieu Zu, who had a second half interception to preserve the shutout. 
Lewis 14 Farley 0 
In the second game of the day, Lewis overcame a slow start to shut out their second consecutive opponent. 
The first two series for Lewis resulted in two interceptions. However, as was the case most of the day, the Lewis defense kept Farley from capitilizing. 



Special guest speaker Peter Bloch on Puerto Rican Experience 
& 

Puerto Rican singer 
l."'armen Lucca 
Date: September 29 Place: The LaFortune Ballroom Time: 7:00 pm 
There will be a free reception in The Ballroom afterwards. 
Train Your Brain 
LSAT, MCAT, GMAT& GRE. 
When Lewis got the ball back they quickly scored on a beauti­fully executed reverse with Kim Gold taking it the distance. Colleen Barry the scored the two point conversion to make the score 8-0 at the half. 
The rest of the way it was Lewis's defense that carried the team. Early in the second half defensive back Jeni Schellenberger intercepted a Farley pass and raced almost the entire length of the field for the score. 
Schellenberger was pleased with the team especially the defense. "Most first teamers are back from last year," said Schellenberger, "We adapt and work together very well." 
If the defense holds up, opposing teams may find it very difficult to score on undefeated Lewis Hall. 
Siegfried 26, Knott 0 
Seigfried used two first-half touchdown passes from quater­back Angie Luzio to pull away from Knott. 
Luzio hit Margret Zimmermann on forth down early in the first half. Later in 

Think your way to a higher score with • Kaplan Total Training: tlive classes . 
.I 

tThe Training Library full of written..,?nd t~ped ".; practice materials and actual released tests.. tExtra help sessions to raise you to the score you want. tl-on-1 tutoring. 
For more information 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question

call 1·800-KAP·TEST 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Despite the catch of this un-identi­fied P. E. receiver, the Pyros failed to score against P. W. 
the half Luzio threw her second touchdown, this time on a stike to Michele Klesta. The two­point conversion put Seigfried up 14-0 at the half. 
The second half continued much the same way with Freshmen Tricia Shafnitz scor­ing on an option and Klesta passing to Zimmermann for her second score of the day. 

Learn by Doing 
At Northwestern University's Mcdill School of Journalism, you learn the media business hands-on. Editorial students report alongside big-city journalists. Magazine students produce a magazine and broadcast students a weekly newscast. Integrated marketing communications students do internships and campaigns. And when you're in the classroom, you learn from faculty with professional c:xpc:ric:ncc: as well as academic credentials. 
Ask for more Information abo.t o•r grad•ate programs1 
0  Reporting and Writing  0 Integrated Marke.ting  
0 Magazine Publishing  Communications  
0  Broadcast Journalism  
0  Newspaper Management  
MediiI  Medii! School of Journalism Northwestern University  
Evanston, Illinois 60208-2101  
708/491-5228  

A Mcdill rc:prc:sc:ntativc: will be at 
St. Mary's College Thursday, September 30 
.. .... 
,.· 

;; J . ; \ 



Tuesday, September 28, 1993 The Observer • MEN'S INTERHALL 
Fisher beats Sorin in Blue Division's only decision 


THE NOTRE DAME 
two quarterback sneaks advanced the ball to the one yard line, Kruer received the call on third and goal and deliv­ered. 
After the game, Kruer credit­
ed his teammates for the score. "Paul Merlitti (right guard) and Greg Graceffo (right tackle) did a great job of blocking for me, and all I had to do was break one tackle." 







LONDON PROGRAM 
INFORMATION MEETING FOR FA 94 AND SP 95: Tuesday, September 28, 1993 101 DeBartolo 6:30p.m. 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 

By Warren Junium all week after we hed problems Sports Writer in a scrimmage with Flanner," said Cavanaugh coach Tony 
Fisher and Sorin put up the Novak. "I was a little surprised only points in the blue league we struggled so much on as Fisher scored twice to beat offense, but Zahm is an excel­the Otters. lent team. 
Fisher got all the scoring they Inexperience on offense may needed in the second quarter, have been the problem for both then clung to the lead for the teams. Cavanaugh had three final score. new starters in their backfield 
Sophomore quarterback Jeff after losing a lot of people from Biever last year's 4-0 squad. connect­ed with 

Zahm started freshman quar­junior 
terback Mark McKenna who tight end 
said, "I was nervous and it was 
intimidating starting (for McGinty 
D a n 
Zahm), but we look forward to on a 20 
improving next week." 
DIVISION 

Turnovers became a problem play for early, as Cavanaugh recovered the first touchdown. Then two fumbles and had one inter­Fisher recovered a fumble by ception in the first half. The Sorin, which led to another second half had two intercep­pass play by Biever, this time to tions and two fumbles. senior flanker Mickey Perez for the 14-0 lead going into half­Zahm had a chance to win time. the game at the end when their 
kicker teed up for a 52 yard 
Sorin opened the second half field goal, but it fell short and by recovering a muffed handoff the game ended in a 0-0 dead­by Fisher. On a 25 yard pass lock. play freshman quarterback Jeff Faragher connected with senior St. Edwards 0, Carroll 0 tight end Scott Curtis for the touchdown, but Sorin missed Coming into the first game of the extra point and Fisher led the interhall season it would 14-6. have appeared that Carroll had 
Sorin continued to move the the advantage, but St. Ed's ball in the second half, but came out of the looking like a couldn't quite put the ball in for vastly improved team from the score. their disappointing 0-4 record 
last season. Zahm 0, Cavanaugh 0 The opening half was a 
Defense was the name of the defensive show down that fea­game this week and the Zahm­tured only one big offensive Cavanaugh game was not an play. Early in the second quar­exception to the rule. ter it appeared that St. Ed's 
"We worked on our defense would break the deadlock when yard pass 
ATTENTION ALL VARSITY ATHLETES ATTENTION ALL VARSITY ATHLETES ATTENTION ALL VARSITY ATHLETES 
interested in a big brother/sister organization 
Meeting Tuesday, Sept. 28th, 8 p.m. 
in the Dooley Room of LaFortune 
p 
llfll·r-

The Observer/John Bingham Cavanaugh's Ryan Burke tries to pick his way through a hole in Sunday's tie with arch-rival Zahm. Niether team managed a score. 
they drove deep in Carroll terri­tory, but the Carroll defense stepped in. Carroll safety Kurt Krebs ended the St. Ed drive when he intercepted Paul Rogers' loop pass. St. Ed's offense never appeared to recover and was ineffective the remainder of the game. Carroll's offense never got 
By G.R. NELSON 
Sports W rirer 

After a sluggish start, Dillon rallied in the second half to defeat Flanner 14-7, in one of t h r e e 
games played in the gold division of men s interhall 

football. 


DIVISION 
w i t h 

Dillon trailing 7-6 in the fourth quar­ter, Chris Monahan blocked a Flanner punt, and Joe Bergan picked it up and scored the decisive touchdown. 
Flanner controlled the first half. "We came out on fire," said Flanner captain Brian Parker. On its first possession, started in this game, and when they did the drive usually ended in a turnover. 
St. Ed's and Carroll both showed that they need to improve their offenses to do well this season, but their defenses will keep them in games. 
Flanner marched down the field and took the lead on a Mike Thompson touchdown run. 
However, in the second half, Dillon made the plays. "We were defmitely overmatched in the first half, but when the 
.time came to make the plays (second halO. we made them," said Dillon captain Zach Budzichowski. Dillon scored its first touchdown on a 60 yard drive, culminated by Mike Schreck's touchdown run. 
Stanford 24 Grace 0 
Stanford Hall dominated every facet of this game in its route of Grace. Stanford racked up 280 yards of total offense while limiting Grace to just two first downs. 
Stanford took a six point lead on Lamar Guillory's three yard run and then broke the game open on Mike Brown's (9-12, 148 yards and 2 TD) 60 yard touchdown pass to game break­er Mike Miller. Miller, playing like his namesake, caught four passes for 81 yards. 


John Mele and Matt Coles also scored for the Studs. Chad Smock, one of four Stanford captains, offered these com­ments about the game: "It was a good start, but we have a long way to go." 
Morrissey 6 Off-Campus 0 
In a game where defenses dominated, Morrissey scored the only points on tailback Justin Kruer's one yard off­tackle right touchdown run with just under a minute remaining. 
Second half rally propels Dillon to victory 
With only two minutes remaining, Morrissey's defense forced a fumble deep in Off­Campus territory, and Paul Lopach made his second fumble recovery of the game. After 
----------------~-~-~-----~~-~-------­
page 14 The Observer • SAINT MARY'S 
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
Belles soccer evens record with weekend loss 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's soccer team's record dropped to 3-3 over the weekend after falling to John Caroll University 1-0. 
The loss for the Belles was typical of a problem that has plagued the Belles all season. According to junior outside half Jennifer Ferry, the team has been unable to play a strong second half. 
"Once again we dominated the first half," she said. "We just can't seem to play well in the second 

half." 

Ferry noted that in all of the Belles' efforts, 
including the wins. play has been significantly 
stronger in the first half. 

Although the Belles were unable to capitalize on 
several opportunities against John Carroll. Ferry 
also feels that the team was not mentally into the 
game. 

"It was a pretty even match up that we could've 
won," she said. "But we just couldn't get up." 
The Belles are hoping to improve play and avenge 
this weekend's loss when they host the Kalamazoo 
Hornets tonight. 

A win for the Belles tonight will be difficult, as the Hornets are currently ranked third in the nation. However, in the seven years that coach Tom Van Meter has been at Saint Mary's the Belles have been unable to beat the Hornets, so a win will also be key in raising team morale. 
Despite this fact, Ferry feels that the Belles can come up on top. 
"Defense will definitely be key tonight," she said. "Kalamazoo is on our level and should be an even match for us." 
Sophotnore forward Tiffany Raczynski agreed. 
"If everyone plays their best and gives 100% effort, there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to beat them," she added. "We definitely have the 
talent to do so." . 

The game begms at 4:00 on the field behind The Samt Marys soccer team takes on Kalmazoo College tonight hoping to overcome Angela Athletic Facility. Saturday's disappointing loss to John Caroll. 
Martino silent star for Saint Mary's volleyball • 
By Kiley Coble 
Sports Writer 
Senior setter Michelle Martino has been the silent player for the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team for four years despite holding several impres­sive team records. 
Tri-captain Martino finished her freshman year tenth in the nation for number of assists per game. And in her sophomore year, she broke all four records a setter can set: career assists average, career assists per game, individual assists aver­age and individual assists per game. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek commented on Michelle's steady playing ability. 

"Michelle has a competitive attitude and runs the offense well," said Schroder-Biek. "She has great knowledge of the game. She also brings a wealth of experience to the team." 
Besides bringing experience to the teams' matches, Martino brings her family. She is the second youngest of eight chil­dren from Elmhurst, Illinois. Before her father passed away last year, he and her mother came to everyone of the team's home games. 
"Now my older brother and his wife come down with Mom for the games," said Martino. "They all are coming up for Senior Dads' weekend so I won't be alone." 
Martino never had a back up setter before this year. Freshman Mindy Cota came along as replacement setter, 
>;~-t:~·-t:' ~~-~*J('~-~};1",'· 
,, "t. " ,_, ''*' . , The Observer/Sean Farnan 
but unfortunately fractured her foot early this season and won't be able to play till next year. Cota commented on how Martino sees herself as setter and how Cota herself sees Martino's position. 
"She gave me a paper on the responsibilities of a setter," said Cota. "A server is involved in every play. Michelle does a lot for the team and picks up the pace by being the only one who jump serves." 
Martino now sees her respon­sibilities heading towards a dif­ferent direction. She is now sending her resume off to dif-
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Anyone interested in coach· 
ing youth hockey for the NO 
youth hockey league call 
Debbie at 277-7519. 

All varsity athletes: If you 
are interested in a big broth­
er/big sister organization, 
there will be a meeting 
Tuesday, Sept. 28th at 8 pm in 
the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's women interested in 
playing lacrosse, come to prac­
tice on Tuesday, Sept. 28 at 
5:00 pm in front of Cushing. Call Emily Hage (X2856) or Michele McQuinlan (X2894) l you have any questions. SportsTalk welcomes guests free safety Jeff Burris and Irish cross-country runners Mike "Beaver" McWilliams and Kristy Kramer tonight at 8pm on WVFI 640 AM. Call in with your questions and comments at 631-6400. The Domer Run featuring 3 and 6 mile runs will be held on Saturday, October 2, at lOam at Stepan Center. There is a $5 adavance registration fee at the RecSports office and a $6 fee on the day of the race. For more information, call RecSports at 631-6100. A horseback riding day is planned for Sunday, October 
10. A bus will depart every hour from 10:30 until 2:30. The fee is $12 per person which includes transportation. Those interested should regis­ter in advance in the RecSports office by 5pm on Thursday, October 7. The maximum number per ride is 10. For more information, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
• 

ferent firms, hoping to find a •
•

position on a accounting firm. • She hopes to take what she 


AfDMEQt\ • 
learned from being on the vol­leyball team for the past three \p 

nUN '93 
years with her into the work ~k force. 

UNIV[Q~JTY Of NO'IDt DAM[ "I've learned a lot about 3 & 6 MILE RUNS teamwork and friendship since AND freshman year, as well as com­PANCAKE BREAKFAST municatioQ beyond belief," said SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2,10:00 AM Martino. 
AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD 'il'o®IXJUI;:r~ 'il'@ t!.\1!.1!. ~OOII®IXI~WJ® The Belles, 9-6, are in IFJ~@O®NWJ 000 t!.\®Wt!.\00©~ t!.\'il' WJrn!©®MWJ'il'® Holland, Michigan today, going ~gj.®® 000 t!.\®Wt!.\00©~ ~ ~®.@YID ®t!.\Y! @~ !Fll!.\©~ ®'il'(\J)@~OO'il' l!.\00® ®'il't!.\~~ ®OWII®O@OO®
up against Hope College. Last year the Belles defeated the FOR MORE INFORMA TJON CALL 631-6100 
Flying Dutch 15-12, 15-6, 15-9. ·································-­

ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS HENRY LEE SUMMER 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS THE KINDICS
ADMINISTRATION }UNIORS 
AT [ll~lD • DOWHTOWH 234-5200 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to: 
Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio 
Room 132 Hayes..Healy Center 
T/CI<ETS~T: -·-.­
TtC!<.Ef A/.JSTEA

IIICfD ncKEJS AVAilABLE AT --­
"~. -~--­
lnC:I*Jdltlq lt'nrr!*:l r~PC.:(II'I ..., !.n!n,; I ', /lyr••·.
nCKDIIASTEII ounm 
~ll}ff:''O & I hlll(•p IU•pOHhll~'~!oll;lllr,.

no later than Oct 1, 1993. 
'-------------CIIARGE-BY·PIIONE (219)272-7979 


----~----------------~--------------~--~--------------------~-·----~------_.---...------------~ 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
199] Wanefson 0•51 by Umversal Press Syrn:hcale 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
01--A~, I GoT 11LL "H£ 'STufF (JJE. (\/E£0 Foil TH€ /2oom. fl'IILK 1 /<.ooL.~AtP 1 
I;J£

DotL ITOS1 Coolc.,ES1 Ftl!..urr, A,...t.t 
ltJHEAT WINS. 
-=+=+:-+.::-! 12 To be, in Brest 13 Cherished 18 Corn or wheat product 22Aries !"t-:--+=-'1-:-+=-t 24 Reno-to-Las Vegas dir. 
congers 
-THIS WEEK AT ALUMNI.-SENIOR O.UB••• 
...._ THURSDAY: STANFORD SUITCASE PARTY 
~ • WIN AIRFARE, HOTEL, SPENDING MONEY, AND TICKETS TON D /STANFORD GAME!! ... •TICKETS FOR $10.00 AT LAFORTUNE FROM SENIOR OAss REPRESENTATIVE OR SOLD AT 
• FREE FOOD; INEXPENSIVE DRINKS THE DooR 
FRIDAY: BAND!! 
•CoME 
SEE THE BARKING TURTLES 

• 
USE YOUR "PARKING LOT COUPON" FOR FRIES 


ON'-'1 f1Av£ A 
1311<-K-f";F,., 
s& Requirement for absolution 60 Actors Glass and Leibman &1 Class cutup's comeuppance 
64 Killer whales 
&s Rent 

&& Blunted sword 
&7 Greek music halls 68 Was mistaken &9 Stitched 
DOWN 
1 lnsinglass 2 Power source 3 "Welcome 
-,"Altman 
film 4 Alpine ridges s Former part of 
Austria &Adam's 
throwaway 1 Decay a Utilize 9 Sea off Alaska 
10 Emulates the Wrights 1t Threatening 

26 Actress Irene 
27 Fat, in Madrid 28"The-of Being Earnest": 
Wilde 30 Succinct 31 Take an oath 34 Pouch 39 Became adept 
in 40 Lamentation 43 Portia's waiting 
woman 

page 15 THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
DAVE KELLETT 
OKA~ , I" C::>oT THE 
HU56A · "Bv6BA (/JE NE-EDED 
Fo~ -r"e: Roo fY1 • 
I 

45 Seagoing 55 Olivier's title initials 
56 Attitudinize 480ne of the 57 Scruff Bobbsey twins 
58 Skipper's 49Channel hands swimmer: 1926 
59 Perfect place 51 Wide open-62 Musket 54 Switch appendage attachment 63 Birdie plus one 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute)., 


-
THE 
n::c~~ 


r-.. c 
al 

1 Hari of spydom s Cancel a space 
trip 10 Imitated 14 Ripley's 
"Believe­Not" 15 Like some cannons 1& Suffragists' quest 11 "Kiss Me. Kate" creator 19 Soprano Petina 20 Loving 21 More wrathful 23 Chemical suffix 24 Where to see whips 2& Borgia potion 29 Parts 
weapon 33 Malign 35 Slumgullion 3& Get-up-and-go 37-devie 
(brandy) 38 Realm of Cath. 
II 41 Mine find 42 "-ofthe 
Middle Border": Garland 44Bucolic 46 Gunther's "Inside-" 47 Pain after initial exercise 50 Tenn. member 
of 24 Across 52 Manual arts 53 What a stiff 
doesn't give 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 








SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, September 28, 1993 
Nau, Sample earn starting roles 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN  
Sports Editor  
The linebackers were  the  
center of attention at Monday's  
practice, as a  two newcomers  
had arrived while an old veter­ 
an returned.  
Jeremy Sample and Jeremy  
Nau put a strong hold on the  
starting inside linebacker spots.  
While former starter Anthony  
Peterson practiced for the first  
time since injuring his knee in  
the Northwestern game.  
Sample earned his spot a  
quarter into last Saturday's  
Purdue game when senior Pete  
Bereich  went  down  with  a  
shoulder separation. Although  
it  was  hoped  that  Bereich  
would be available for this week's matchup with Stanford it appears that he won't be  The Observer/John Bingham Linebacker Pete Bereich, shown here against Northwestern, will miss this weekend's game against Stanford after sepsrating his shoulder.  
making the trip.  
"Pete Bereich is going to miss this game," said head coach  Wynn practiced with defen­sive lineman Monday, but could still be available in a reserve  looked a step slow. "My stamina is not where it needs to be," said Peterson.  
Lou Holtz. "Just how long he is going to miss is the question." Nau got the nod over sopho­ role. Although he still is not the Peterson of old, the news of the  Depth a linebacker is a con­cern. Bill Wagasy, the No. 2 behind Justin Goheen, is the  
more Renaldo Wynn in the Purdue game and performed  return of the two year starter is a definite positive.  only player on the second team who is at full strength and  
well. The junior was slated as a  game proven.  
second teamer after a strong  "The knee feels great," said  
spring and fall by Wynn, but  the  six-foot  223 pound  • Tailback Lee Becton ran for  
apparently the coaching staff felt a need to make the switch.  Peterson. "Wearing the knee brace was weird at first but  part of practice with the offense but sat out the later half. Holtz  
"Renaldo had a great spring.  once I got accustomed to it, it  was uncertain as to what role  
The Observer/Brian McDonough Linebacker Anthony Peterson practiced for the first time yesterday since injuring his knee against Northwestern.  I don't know what it was, maybe stage fright," said Nau about the coaches decision.  just feels like a part of my leg." He practiced with the second team and looked solid but still  he would be able to play in Saturday's game, due to a nag­ging hamstring injury.  

Volleyball hopes
Men's soccer looks to regain form against DePaul 
By MIKE NORBUT 


to avoid letdown 
Sports Writer 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR It's gut check time for the Irish. Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will try to J.:L:::.:.:...:.:..::.:::::..___________--1 
avoid dropping thei_r re~ord to the .~00 ma_rk as The Notre Dame volleyball team looks they h?st. DePaul Umvers1ty at 7 pm this evenmg at to continue its winning ways, following its 
Alumm ~Ield. . . . impressive win over No. 3 Nebraska at The Irish dropped to 4-3 after a d1sappomtmg 3-0 last weekend's Golden Dome Invitational. loss to No. 3 Indiana Friday night. when it hosts DePaul tonight at 7:30 at 
Notre Dame outplayed the Hoosiers i~ the first the J.A.C.C. half, trailing ?nly 7-4 in sho_ts but holdmg ~ 6-0 The Blue Demons have struggled thus advantage m corn~r k1c~s at ~alftime. far this season, coming in with a 6-8 Unfortunately for the Irish. Indiana led m the key record that includes poor performances ~ategory .. the score.. T~e Hoosiers took a 1-0 lead against ranked teams. Currently, they mto halftime. ~hen JUmor Todd Yeagley bounc~d a are coming ofT a disappointing third place shot past a diVIng Bert Bader otT of a 25 yard direct finish in their own Fall Classic, dropping 
kick. . . . matches to Loyola (Ill.) and Sam Houston 
Indiana dommated the second h~lf with supenor State. 

ball ~ontrol and good. play from midfielders Wayne The Irish are coming ofT the program's Lobrmg and Brad Wmss. But they could not put the biggest upset ever and are playing some g~me away against a pesky Irish attac~ until junior of their best volleyball of the season. Mike Cl~rk scored ofT a Yea~ley pass with_ 12:57 left Junior outside hitter Christy Peters has to play m the c?nt~st to g1ve the Hoosiers a _2-0 proven unstoppable in the last few Irish lead. H_arry Weiss Iced the game for the Hoosi~rs matches, capturing MVP honors in two three mmutes later ofT another Yeagley pass to give consecutive tournaments. while team­In?iana the,3-0 victory. .. . mate Molly Stark has joined her on the 
You cant look at the score of the game, said all-tournament team both times. Irish head coach Mike Bertic_elli. "You have to look One might think that the Irish, whose at the performance, and I thmk we performed well. 10-3 record held them steady at No. 16 in Indiana deserves a lot of credit." . the Volleyball Monthly polls, would be T~e ~lue Demons ~ill take_ a 2-6-1 reco:d m~o taking the Blue Demons lightly. 
< tomght s g~me. The1~ two wms came earl~er t~Is However, head coach Debbie Brown 
season agamst St. Xavwr College and the Umvers1ty noted that this was definitely not the 
of Illinois-Chicago. The team is winless in its last case. 

fiv~ gaf!les, losing four ~tr~ight before tying the "The Santa Clara match (a 5-game loss) Umvers1ty of Alabama-B1rmmgham last weeken?. is still too fresh in our minds for a let­Despite their record, Berticelli knows DePaul will down" commented Brown. "The team not go quietly tonight. will be prepared and rise to the occa­
"DePaul is a tough team that always gives people sion." problem~," commented the c?ach. . The Blue Demons as a team have strug-The Insh hold a 13-0 senes record agamst the gled offensively, hitting only for a .170 
The Observer/John Bingham 
Blue Demons. Last year, Notre Dame downed percentage. Their leading attacker is
Bill Lanza and the Irish soccer team hope to bounce against DePaul back after being beaten over the head by a highly ranked Indiana team. 


• 

Men's lnterhall Fisher wins in only non­tie of Blue Division, while 
... 
Dillon beats Planner in Gold Division. 
see page 13 

see SOCCER I page 11 see VOLLEYBALL I page 11 
Inside SPORTS 
SMC Sports Soccer drops record to 3-3. Martino leads volleyball team with silent but stellar play. 
see page 14 

L_--------------------~~ 

Women's lnterhall PW remains undefeated with win over PE. BP and Howard face each other for second win. 
see page 12 







