-~~-__________--l 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Flames threaten a celebrity-soaked Malibu seashore 
By JOHN HORN sun came up, all of those hous­centers and homes of friends Malibu until a good three days A<sociated Press es were still there," said Peter and families. after they put it out," said actor Haynes, an all-night security "We stuck around long Rod Steiger. a 39-year Malibu 
Students 

MALIBU guard. But the area's future enough to see the fire coming resident. Flames rampaged toward the still hinged on fickle winds, lire over the hill. The weeds are Builder Barry Chase stood sea, torching dense Santa officials cautioned. cut and the insurance is paid, guard over the Malibu Colony 

witness the 

Monica Mountain brush and On Tuesday night, as flames so I guess we're OK," said res­home of "Moonlighting" pro­threatening multimillion-dollar raced down hillsides toward ident Ken Duzy. who said he ducer Glen Caron, which he re­homes in this celebrity-satu­Malibu's main business district, began packing when a heli-cently remodeled. 

devastation
rated coastal town. "It was total helter-skelter. 
By JOHN LUCAS
Burning chunks of embers 
Associate News Editor 

were landing every place. It was a total war zone," said Notre Dame students visit­Malibu Colony resident Terry 
ing home for fall break
O'Neal. 
received a-first hand look atDozens of homes costing up the destruction and horror to $10 million apiece were 
of the California fires as

evacuated Tuesday in the ex­many returned to neighbor­clusive enclave, home to such 
hoods and communities
entertainers as Sting, Bob 
near damaged areas and
Newhart. Burgess Meredith, evacuation zones.
Pia Zadora. John McEnroe and Although few residents inLarry Hagman. 
the affected area have been
The nearby Serra Retreat injured, huge amounts ofneighborhood that Charles destruction have been
Bronson, Dick Van Dyke and 
inflicted by the rampant
former Sen. John Tunney call wildfires.
home was also evacuated. 
"It's scary," Notre DameA 45-mile stretch of Pacific 
junior Tyler Farmer said.
Coast Highway remained closed "People are really at thetoday as two main fronts of the mercy of the wind." 
fire continued to burn. The Junior John Vandermore 
western flank burned near joined the relief forces
Pepperdine University, while working to dean up the dis­10 miles to the east the fire aster. He went back to his
threatened Pacific Palisades. 
summer job last ThursdayThe famed Getty Art Museum and Friday, driving an was within a few miles of the 
ambulance around the

fire but was safe, museum offi­a Coast Guard cutter moved copter hovered over his house "We want to be here to catch Newport Beach and the rav­cials said. into position offshore in case an and announced over a loud the embers, that's the only real aged Laguna area.
Airplanes swooped low over evacuation by sea was neces­speaker that residents must threat right now. Keep every­
Although he answered 

power lines to bombard both sary. evacuate. thing wet, and if you see an routine calls that were notsides with orange flame retar­Residents with shovels tried Most of the burned homes ember you get on it fast. That's 
fire related. Vandermore

dant. The aerial assault and a to smother hot spots as the fire were on the east, inland side of all you can do. It's pretty relieved other drivers whoshift in winds turned back the advanced Tuesday afternoon, the Pacific Coast Highway that scary," said Chase. 
had been working 24·hourflames, at least temporarily. but the effort was futile as forms the spine of the long, shifts, battling the Dames.

In the heart of Malibu, at the flames moved 12 miles from in­narrow beachfront town. It The California Highway 
"When the firemen got

famed gated Colony, potato land Woodland Hills to Malibu was too early to tell to whom Patrol reported people desper­hurt, they went up and gotchip-sized chunks of ash cov­in just four hours. they belonged. ate to get to their homes aban­them," he said. "It was real
ered the road. As darkness fell, residents "You don't stop worrying doned cars on the highway and ''I'm so surprised. When the sought shelter at evacuation about a fire if you live in walked past a roadblock. 
see FIRES I page 4 



Student Government presents The Guide, course evaluations 
By KATIE MURPHY participate in the process. lyzed the results and wrote a general survey which ranks mailboxes today or tomorrow. News Writer According to the 1992-93 summaries of the responses. course elements from one to Off-campus students can pick University of Notre Dame Unless there was insufficient five. up their books in the student The Guide, a student publica­Faculties of the University re­information, each course eval­Campus residents should re­government office on the sec­
tion of course evaluations, is port published by Institutional uation consists of the results of ceive their Guide copies in their ond floor of LaFortune. 
complete and will be distrib­ Hesearch, there are 644 full­ 
uted today and tomorrow in an  time faculty members and 261  
effort to aid students in course  part-time instructors. Guide lacks complete class listings  
selection before darting.  According to Flynn, student  
"It provides students with the  government sent 700-800 let­By KATIE MURPHY partments are strong points in from several courses, and that 
voice of their experienced peers  ters to all of the course heads complete summaries could not  
as one factor in the decision  News Writer the Guide, other departmentsrequesting permission to ad­are not as well-represented. be written. Often. riot enough 
making process," according to  minister Guide questionnaires. For example, there are only students in a particular class 
the mission statement of the  Although the first issue of the Of those, approximately 100 two courses previewed in the responded to the necessary in­ 
Guide Committee.  Guide. student government'sagreed to take part. About 65 course evaluation handbook, is English Department formation, according 
The Guide was one project  even toinstructors are actually fea­though over 90 undergraduate Heather Arnold, the director of 
that current Student Body  clearly a valuable resource, ittured in the completed Guide, courses are offered this semes:­the Intellectual Life depart­ 
President and Vice-President  lacks a comprehensive listing according to Arnold. of undergraduate classes. ter; ment of student government. 
Frank Flynn and Nikki  "A lot of professors indicated This first effort to collect and Students asked The full summaries are clearly 
Wellmann promised in their  were toto us that they wanted to see grade the course elements and written, and present both posi­ 
campaign. After they took of­ publish student opinions onthe first one. Also. a lot of the their instructors is a long­their professors from one to tive and negative aspects of the 
fice, the Intellectual Life  teachers that accepted had awaited addition to current five, with five being the high­courses, though.  
Department of student gov­ classes that were too small (to However, the lack of profes­ 
ernment began developing the  course planning resources. est.survey)," said Arnold. While institutions such The Guide shows how many sor participation is one of the 
project-looking at similar pub­ asA similar publication was at­Harvard and UCLA have had students responded to each Guide's · weaknesses. 
lications at other schools.  tempted in years before and its similar publications for years, number as well as the average Institutional Information's 
"We modeled (the Guide)  "unprofessionalism" may have Notre Dame has never sus­Compilers also in­spring of 1993 report "The 
closely after Harvard," said  response.caused some professors to hesi­tained a resource such as the cluded the composition of the University of Notre Dame: 
Heather Arnold, the director of  tate before participating in the class, the books required and Courses, Sections Size, and 
Intellectual Life.  Guide. ..current effort. according to With the Guide, student gov­the number of exams, papers Credit Hours Generated" cites 
The Guide Committee, co­ Arnold. ernment aimed to assist stu· or assignments. · that over 900 undergraduate 
chaired by Walsh senior Susan  ."We're not trying to ruin any While fairly thorough in classes offered last 
Petrovic and Knott junior Sara  dents as they choose their werereputations of professors. We courses for the next semester. terms of the statistical side of semester. These numbers and  
Skalicky, used Harvard  strove to keep this one fair and Approximately 80 the evaluations, some courses the content of the Guide are 
University's publication, The  coursesaccurate," said Arnold. overall are included in the lack course summaries. not comparable. According to 
Cue, as their model. The Cue  Students filled out the evalua­publication. Student government repre­Arnold, much of the Guide's 
has been in existence for 20  tion forms in their classes late While the business, electrical sentatives admit that insuffi­ 
years, according to Arnold.  last semester. Student gov­engineering and biology de~ cient information was gathered 
Professors had the choice to  see ANALYSIS I page 4ernment staff members ana­ 


______________________________________________j 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, November 4, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Slang, cliches add spice to pop culture 

Have you ever wondered about slang? I mean, how did all these words and phrases get started? Is there a small office adja­cent to the Pentagon called the "Slang Committee" where they create new words and new meanings for old words? I wonder about it sometimes. 

Rob Adams Day Chief 
Toll rises to 110 dead, 263 missing after heavy rains and floods 
TEGUCIGALPA, HONDURAS Heavy flooding kept more than Honduras storm 15,000 people from returning....----.---~~~-------, 
Wednesday to homes swamped by three days of storms. At least 110 peo­ple have died and 263 are missing, authorities said. 
Teams recovered bodies from swollen rivers along the Atlantic coast. "The casualties are only preliminary 
because our rescue brigades are still finding bodies in the rivers," said Ramon Santos, a government official 

who provided the toll. 1:--...___-l-_.::;.;)o._;;.;--~,-...!~ 1,~;'----·-,~NITED STATES l/ 
p:;~e;j~~~~sH:f~=~ ;:~l~!~st:~~~f:r~e~ \~_ \,·--\ ,_,-~,F~.-~\) ~'­
~, r 
~~:: C:r~r;:er;et~c% ~no~~h!·:~oA~f~~~~~ M~XICO" ("j ~7~ 
provinces ofYoro and Colon. ""'--~-~·~\ 
After flying Tuesday over the hard-___:::::_-.~ ~ est-hit areas. he said experts were esti-~ '·'t::::t:;J'~..r· mating damages would exceed $60 mil-L---------------...l-~ lion. AP 
The Hed Cross appealed for international assistance for problem with the drinking water is the most serious thousands who remained sheltered in schools and affecting the victims and is our immediate priority," said churches after their homes were destroyed and mud-Lozano. 
Elton John upset over false diet report Train carrying hazardous materials derails 
LONDON LOUISVILLE 
Elton John was upset and angry over 
Ten tanker cars from a freight train carrying haz­a false newspaper report that he lived ardous materials derailed Wednesday, rattling houses on a bizarre diet, spitting out chewed and forcing the evacuation of thousands of residents and food rather than swallowing it, his three elementary schools. No injuries were reported, manager told a jury. "The article dis­said Jefferson County Police spokeswoman Wendy Peters. turbed him deeply," John Heid testified Between 2,400 and 2,800 people were evacuated within during a trial on the rocker's libel com­a mile of the wreck in suburban Louisville, said Eric plaint against the Sunday Mirror. The Evans, chief of the Pleasure Hidge Park Fire Department. tabloid admitted the story wasn't true Two overturned tankers carrying chloroprene had small but said it didn't know that last leaks, which were sealed by evening, Evans said. December when it printed it under the headline: "Elton's Chloroprene is highly flammable and gives off toxic diet of death." John said the paper acted recklessly by smoke if it burns. In all, six cars overturned, four failing to check its facts. He told the High Court jury on remained upright, and 14 cars remained on the track. Monday that he spent 16 years fighting the eating disor­None of the other cars was leaking, Peters said. der bulimia and addiction to drugs and alcohol. He said Authorities, however, said they were concerned about an he was hospitalized in 1990 and later joined Alcoholics empty tanker containing calcium carbide residue that Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous, Overeaters was unstable and could explode. Emergency workers Anonymous and Bulimics Anonymous. placed plastic over the tanker to keep out mist. 

Construction accident at post office kills one November beard club hypes the hirsute 
CHICAGO BEHKELEY Metal girders collapsed in a "domino effect" today at a A new movement was sprouted by a happily hirsute 
U.S. Post Office building under construction, killing one group with a manly message for their bald-faced person and injuring six others. Four people were in criti­brethren: Put down that razor! "It's a liberating feel­cal condition at hospitals and one was in serious condi­ing," said Kevin O'Hare, "king" of the November Beard tion after the accident at the construction site west of Club. "It gets to be kind of a pain having to shave 365 downtown. The condition of the sixth person was not days a year." The club's mission is to get as many peo­immediately determined, a hospital said. Chicago Fire ple as possible to call a hair-removal hiatus for the Commissioner Haymond Orozco confirmed the fatality. month of November. "The simple belief that because life Heports from the scene said at least two floors of the has given us the power to grow facial hair, then, by golly, steel superstructure of the building came down, leaving a we should (at least for a month, anyway), is what holds tangle of metal girders. Cranes were trying to move fall­this group together," a news release said. Club members en debris. Jason Cooper said he was working on the know that some think there's folly in follicles. but they're building near the section that collapsed. "It was just a ready to, well, beard the opposition, said club founder normal day," he said. "Then I heard a crack, and it and president, Tahd Frentzel. "Part of being male is seemed the world was coming down." Postal worker having facial hair. So I thought if maybe there was a Sam Bullock said he was at work across the street when month where it was OK to grow a beard, more men he heard a loud noise. "We saw the beams and the peo­would take advantage of this and let Mother Nature have ple falling. It was just a domino effect. It was horrible," her way with their faces," Frentzel said. he said. The new building is across the street from the city's main post office. 
INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, Nov. 4 
CmibbeanSea 


j' 
!iiiiiiiiiiiiill 
l\·: 
1
er 
slides cut the main Atlantic coastal high­way, cutting off whole towns. 
Santos said civil defense officials were worried about 150 isolated hamlets and towns that have gone four days without safe drinking water. 
"We fear there could be a surge of epi­demics among the victims," he said. The nearly 72 hours of torrential rains 
began before dawn on Sunday as a series of storms and high winds lashed the coastal provinces, unleashing mud­slides that toppled more than 1,000 homes. 



ti~~eo}t~[c~. t'~~a~~st.r~~~~o:a;~g~1r~~t:~ 
a~i::r~c::Sfda~~t"Roberto Lozano said some of the biggest losses were in the farming valleys of Aguan and Lean, where Chiquita Brands operates large banana plantations. 
"The situation is calamitous. And the 
H L Dallas 64 49 Philadelphia 51 39 Athens 68 54 Lima 70 63 Phoenix 84 53 Atlanta 63 40 London 57 48 Reno 70 29 Boston 53 35 Los Angeles 86 58 Rome 66 59 Cairo 79 63 Minneapolis 52 35 Tokyo 68 55 Chicago 55 37 New York 50 42 Toronto 44 40 Cleveland 43 39 Palatine 56 36 

Thursday, November 4, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


ND broadens its service opportunities SMC updates its Writing 
BySUZVFRY The program will allow indi­lishing new programs and 
Assistant News Editor viduals over 17 years old to methods of service." Center for student needs 
earn up to $4,725 a year to­
Though still in its tentative wards higher education or job "The idea of philanthropy is 
By ELIZABETH REGAN mulate ideas and organize
stages, Notre Dame's effort to training in exchange for up to not a new concept to most 
Saint Mary's News Editor their papers rather than check
respond to President Bill two years of community ser­Notre Dame students. However 
punctuation and spelling, ac­

Clinton's National and vice. Full-time college students with a national program, ND 
The Writing Center at Saint cording to sophomore peer tu­
Community Service Trust Act will also be able to apply for will realize that it is not just the 
Mary's has acquired more than tor Lucy Furber. 
has made significant progress, gradual reductions in their ND student who participates 
$21,000 worth of computer "We are here for students to
especially in the areas of pro­Stafford loans. but it will be all sorts of people 
equipment through a matching bounce ideas around with. We 
gram assessment and commu­In addition, non-profit orga­from all over-each offering 
gift arrangement with IBM this usually go over rough drafts
nity-university interaction. nizations, including universi­their own ideas and learning 
year, according to Sarah and help students with the or­
Recently, the Center for ties, may be eligible for devel­from the diversity of others," 
Peterek, director of the Annual ganization of their papers,"
Social Concerns established a opment grants that may allow said education programming 
Fund at Saint Mary's. Furber said. "By asking ques­
National and Community for the expansion of already­co-chair Jennifer Guerin. 
The 10 new IBM 486/33 com­tions, we help the students fig­
Service Steering Committee at existing service programs. After participating in a ser­
puter units have replaced the ure out problems in the paper,
the request of University In response to this legislation, vice seminar in Washington 
Writing Center's outdated IBM­rather than telling them di­
President Father Malloy. The Notre Dame has taken steps to D.C. this fall break, junior Bill 
compatible equipment, "This rectly."
goal of the committee, as co­establish itself as a pilot pro­Brennan said, "Service oppor­
type of matching gift program The center is by no means a
chairs Father Don McNeill and gram for other universities and tunities are not limited to just 
is indicative of the way Annual remedial center. according to
junior Kellie Abbott explained institutions, said Jay soup kitchens and tutoring but 
Fund contributions are direct­Thomas.
at yesterday's steering commit­Bradenberger, NCS educational they can also involve your own 
ed toward an immediate stu­
tee meeting, is to create an at­programming co-chair. interests, talents and educa­
dent need," Peterek said. "We do not want a negative
mosphere of mutual benefit "Washington is very inter­tional resources-that's when 
The Writing Center, located stigma associated with the cen­
and collaboration between ested in any ideas that Notre its the most beneficial to both 
in the lower level of Le Mans ter," Thomas said. "Everyone
Notre Dame and the surround­Dame has to offer," he said. parties." 
Hall, however. consists of more should come to the writing cen­
ing communities, as well as According to Skurski, the 
than just computers. It is a ter, even good writers have
providing financial support to While Washington has yet to majority of the funding for esc 
place for students of all classes room for improvement." 
students interested in volun­approve the appropriations and now comes from the University 
and majors to develop their Students are encouraged to
teering via the National and the regulations for legislation, or major donations from pri­
writing skills, according to work on any type of writing at
Community Service Act. Notre Dame should see effects vate companies and ND alums. 
Kathy Thomas, the Writing the center. Term papers ,
The bill, as Clinton signed of the program as early as next "With or without the federal 
Center coordinator. compositions and personal
into law on Sept. 21, "will ad­summer and fall, said McNeill. funding, Notre Dame will con­
Students are encouraged to statements for graduate school
dress the nation's education, According to Maureen tinue with its community 
come to the Writing Center are common among older stu­
human, public safety and envi­Skurski, NCS project coordina­work," she said. 
during any point of the writing dents, while freshman tend to
ronmental problems" while tor, "The service projects asso­An informational forum with 
process. work on "W" papers.
simultaneously "fostering civic ciated with esc will be en­Congressman Tim Roemer and 
The peer tutors are available "It is not just a service for
responsibility and providing an hanced by the added funding the National and Community 
by appointment but do not gen­freshmen trying to fulfill their
educational opportunity for and exposure from Clinton's Service committee will be held 
erally serve as grammar edi­Writing Proficiency
those who make a substantial plan. We're not going to try to Friday, Oct. 12 at 4 p.m. in the 
tors. They help students for-Requirement, " said Thomas. 
commitment to service." re-invent the wheel by estab-esc. 

Aristide rules out talks over everything except military departure 
By JOSEPH FRAZIER military participation. more details. Louis had agreed to attend. 
Associated Press U.N. special envoy Dante Caputo said "I am waiting then for his answer," he Earlier in the day, Aristide said in a 
the response from Haitian army com­said, but confirmed the meeting would radio broadcast that he was only inter­
PORT-AU-PRINCE mander Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras to an begin Friday morning. ested in discussing the departure of the 
Haitian political figures will go ahead invitation to the talks lacked clarity. He said the response from exiled military so he could return to power. 
with a meeting seeking an end to the Caputo said after a high-level meeting President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was "I am not interested in (Cedras') reply, 
country's crisis, a U.N. official said at the residence of Premier Robert "positive" but did not elaborate. He I am interested in his departure," 
Wednesday, apparently with or without Malva! that he had asked Cedras for also said Senate President Firman Jean-Aristide said. 




Career/Job Search Info on Campus Network 

• See Career and Placement publications in any campus computer lab by opening the files shown at the right.
• 
The Weekly Bulletin of campus interviews is available each Friday after 5:00 for the next week's interview sign-ups. Save a trip to our office and prepare your resumes early for the Tuesday 4:00p.m. deadline. 

• 
Weekly Events, summer job, graduate school, and other career planning/job search information also on the network.


• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Look us up! 
IBM Mac 

Career and Placement Services ­
Thursday, November 4, 1993
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 

Fires 
continued from page 1 
gruesome, because a lot of the houses got burned real sudden­ly." 
Sophomore Jennifer Allen was giving a presentation on Notre Dame for Santa Margarita High School in Laguna Beach, when the word came to evacuate. The college night was proceeding normally when suddenly everyone were told that fires were moving rapidly toward the area. 
"The winds were so unpre­dictable, there was no way to know when the fires were com­ing," she added. 
Hesidents in the area had no warning of the evacuations and little opportunity to gather their belongings, according to Allen. 
"All they (Laguna residents) had time for was to grab their checkbooks and important pa~ pers-most people were given about 30 seconds notice," she said. The fires have been caused by a combination of fac­tors, all coming together at a bad time, according to Farmer, a Santa Barbara resident. 


tive bush that contains a form of oil. he said. 
"When sumac catches fire, it almost explodes," Farmer said. "It's like when you stick gas on the grill-it just goes crazy." 
In addition to the scorching the ground, rampant fires are depleting the water supply, Farmer said. 
"The dilemma is that you have all kinds of people who have been told for all these years that if there is a fire to wet down their roof, but if peo­ple go out and wet down their roof. they deplete the water supply, and even more impor­tant, the pressure," Farmer said. "When the fire fighters have to go fight the big flames, they don't have much to work with." 
Although the fires around Laguna caused tremendous de­struction, they were also beau­tiful sight to watch, according to Allen. 
"At sunset, you could see through all of the smoke, and everywhere you just saw a re­ally dark red," she said. "It was almost like something from Dante's Inferno." 
Junior Jack Hogan watched the fires come over the hills from the top of his home in Balboa Island, a community 

Russia willing to use its nuclear weapons 
By LARRY RYCKMAN primarily defensive and that no nuclear or non-nuclear, which Associated Press nation is considered a potential have undertaken aggression enemy. against Russia or supported 
MOSCOW It also allows the military to such aggression." 
Abandoning a long-standing intervene in domestic crises "to "Russia reserves the right to Soviet policy, Russia now is protect the constitutional sys­use all means at its disposal to ready to launch nuclear mis­tem." repulse aggression and crush siles in a first strike if it or its Valery Manilov, deputy secre­the aggressors," Manilov said. allies are attacked with conven­tary of the country's top policy­"This is in line with the posi­tional weapons, a top official making Security Council, re­tions of the United States, Great said Wednesday. jected suggestions that provi­Britain and France." 
The United States and other sion signified an expanded role Former Soviet leader. Leonid Western powers have repeat­for the army following Brezhnev, speaking at the edly refused to rule out a first October's violence. United Nations in June 1982, strike, arguing that such a The riots by hard-line par­made a unilateral commitment pledge would diminish the de­liament supporters, which not to use nuclear weapons terrent value of their nuclear killed dozens of people in first in an effort to score propa­arsenals and limit their military Moscow, prompted Yeltsin to ganda points against the United options. send tanks and troops to flush States. 
The new Russian policy is out defiant lawmakers from the That policy formed the back­part of a military doctrine ap­parliament building. bone of the Soviet Union's mili­proved by President Boris This provision "reflects the tary and political strategy for Yeltsin on Tuesday. The doc­objective reality of our society, years. Soviet authorities often ument had been demanded by which is passing through a criticized the U.S. refusal to the military as payment for its transition period," Manilov said make a similar pledge during support in his fight with par­at a news conference. their attempt to rally European liament last month. Manilov said the new doc­public opinion against the de­
The 23-page doctrine states trine allows use of nuclear ployment of new U.S. missiles 
that Russia's military mission is weapons "against states, in the 1980s. 




CLUB 23 
On Notre Dame Ave. and S.R.23 
Now Club 23 Subs for Lunch! Free Delivery All Day 234...4015 
Open 11 a.m ... 2 p.m. 
~~ek}¥ 6~£~~}als 
Tues Lunch Special~ $200 7" Subs Wed Quarter Night~ $200 60 "ouncers" Thu $P0 "Around the World" Night Fri~Sat Live Music 

MOVIE NIGHT 
The Law Fir1n of 
I


Ford, Cruise, Hackman 
1 

Pesci & Close 

1 II 



presents an all-night tribute to law in the movies. 
On the docket: 9:00pm A Few Good Men 

I 1:20pm My Cousin Vinny 1:20am Presumed Innocent 3:30am Jagged Edge 
5:20am Class Action 
November 6, 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom It's Fun, Free and Perfectly Legal! 

Although the famed "Santa Ana" winds have been a factor, the combination of dry ground and combustible bushes have added to the speed of the de­struction. The rapid spread of the fires are also probably due to the presence of sumac, a na-


Analysis 
continued from page I 
success hinges on the instruc­tors' attitudes to the project, which may change after the ini­tial publication. 
Other minor weaknesses in the Guide are related to format. For example, the current issue only has the professor's name on the actual evaluation, and students simply have to page through the book to find the near Newport Beach. 
"I was planning on going to a movie, but this (the fires) was more exciting than seeing a movie; we just sat there and watched it come over the hills," Hogan said. "We sat there in awe." 
name of the instructor they are 
researching. 
An index of the featured 
courses and professors would 
simplify this process. 
Also. formal course titles are 
not included in the Guide. The 
number of the course is not suf­
ficient, and future compilations 
would be easier to use if the 
evaluation had the number as 
well as the course title on it. 
The next Guide publication is 
already underway, and stu­
dents interested in working on 
the project should contact stu­
dent government. 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, November 4, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Castellino analyzes science ethics Croats flee villages in fear 
By TONY POTTINGER 
News Writer 
Identical siblings born years apart. Humans bred for the sole purpose of restocking or­gan banks. Parents choosing 
the eye color and height of their children. Once the work of science fic­tion, these ideas have become reality with the bur­

g e 0 n i n g Castellino 
growth of genetic engineering according to Dr. Frank Castellino, dean of the College of Science. 
In his campus conversation, "Ethics and Sciences," Castellino and students dis­cussed topics including the re­cently successful cloning of a human embryo, the so-called "suicide doctor" Jack Kevorkian and forensics. 
Castellino, who came to Notre Dame in 1970 as an assistant professor, provided a back­ground for and insight into the recent and controversial break­through with embryo cloning. With the successful synthesis of DNA from RNA in the 1970s, the new technology made possi­ble cloning of cattle embryos for the purpose of developing genetically superior beef, he said. 
The cloning of the human embryo represents not so much a scientific advancement as a move with "tremendous ethical ramifications," according to Castellino. As a result, "whole new disciplines will have to be defined in molecular biology. There are no ethical or legal precedents for all of this," said Castellino. 
At Notre Dame for example, all research work with recom­binant DNA must go through a review board before the University will sign a grant, ac­cording to Castellino. 
"All of what was once science fiction before it was understood is now actually happened .. .natural selection has been 

"AN ELEGANT NEW FILM!'' 
-Vinrt·nt Canby. THE 1\f:W YORK Tl'r!ES 
"****!"
-Jami 1\.rnard, 1\EW YORK POST 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
manipulated by science, " said Castellino. 
Student Enrique Bernardo addressed the topic saying, "We can think of anything in science and develop it, but we should still be bound by our moral con­science." 
On the matter of Kevorkian, Castellino continued, "there is need for a balanced decision in these cases," although he says there were both situations in which he would condone and condemn doctor-assisted sui­cide. 
Breen-Phillips sophomore Sheila Moloney spoke of her disagreement with Kevorkian's actions, "In diseases in which advancements are happening everyday such as AIDS, a cure could be found the day after a patient used Kevorkian's ser­vices." 
"Despite rapid advance­ments," Castellino concluded the conversation, "science can­not do the impossible. It can only accelerate what is possi­ble." 
By MAUD SEELMAN 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Muslim-led government troops stormed through an iso­lated Croat district Wednesday, sending 15,000 civilians fleeing into the countryside while oth­ers cowered in cellars. 
Government soldiers sur­rounded and entered Vares, the main town in the area 20 miles north of Sarajevo, after taking a string of Croat villages to the north, U.N. officials said. 
About 15,000 Croat civilians fled, including 5,000 who sought shelter in a quarry southeast of Vares, said Ray Wilkinson, a U.N. relief spokesman in Sarajevo. 
"The remaining 10,000 are basically on the run in the forests in the surrounding area, mostly in large groups," Wilkinson said. 
Others were said to be holed up in cellars. 
"The situation right now is obviously total confusion," Wilkinson said. 
The advance on Vares fol­lowed weeks of violence in the area, including the massacre of at least 25 Muslim civilians in the village of Stupni Do late last month. 
Many of those fleeing Wednesday apparently feared reprisals. U.N. officials said there were widespread reports of rapes, beatings and looting, but there was no confirmation of any atrocities by either side. 
Capt. Niels Pederson, a spokesman for U.N. peace­keepers, said government troops appeared to have "destroyed" the Croats' Bobovac Brigade, whose sol­diers were blamed by U.N. of­ficials for the Stupni Do mas­sacre. 
He said the Bosnian army had captured two school build­ings in Vares where the brigade had been holding an unknown number of Muslims. Their fate was not immediately known, but Pedersen said about 680 Muslims were shel­tering near a U.N. battalion based in Vares. 

GSU sets goals and assesses projects 
By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 

International travel will now be covered under the Graduate Student Union travel grant fund. In order to facilitate this change and to distribute funds more evenly among a greater number of people, the maxi­mum possible amount allocated per trip will be lowered from $1000 to $500. The lifetime cap will remain at $1000, the group decided at last night's meeting. 
In order to give the organiza­tion more stability, President Rita Francis suggested the cre­ation of an ad-hoc GSU long range planning committee. Members of the committee will clarify the goals of the GSU and its sub-committees and will make budgetary recommenda­tions to the council at the end of the year. 
They discussed the possibility of holding an event or compil­ing a publication "highlighting research and scholarship at Notre Dame" at the end of next semester was brought before the organization by Joe Manak of the Intellectual Life Committee. The group voted in favor of this idea. 
Moving on, the role the Women's Resource Committee will take in the Notre Dame community was further clari­fied. We are "committed to supporting the center" but are also looking to be active in the 
In other business: 
• 
GSU allocated resources again this year to help fund Common Sense. Common Sense was started by graduate students and has always been funded by the GSU. 

• 
There will be a party for graduate students this Friday at 9 p.m. at Wilson Commons. 

• 
Printing costs for the University are "way over bud­get", said Chairman of the Computing and Informational Services Committee Pat Sain. If costs are not reduced, the University will charge per page printed, according to Sain. 

• 
There was an error in the e­mail account number published in this month's newsletter. The correct e-mail account is 


community in additional ways, Notre.Dame.GSU.1@nd.edu for chairwoman Linda Chalk said. the organization. 

The Controversy Continues ... November 9 7:30pm Stepan 




Phyllis Schlafly 
Reagan Advisor 

of Roe v. Wade 


"Changing Roles of Me.n and Women in the 1990s: A Debate" 




page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 4, 1993 

Clinton sends NAFTA to Hill 
By TOM RAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

After months of haggling and some last-minute modifications, President Clinton sent Congress the final version of legislation 
to  put  in  force  the  North  
American  Free  Trade  
Agreement.  

The bill was sent to Capitol Hill on Wednesday after Mexico and the United States reached agreement at 4 a.m. on new side deals designed to protect 
U.S. sugar, citrus and vegetable producers, administration offi­cials said. 
Former Italian envoy to be subpoenaed 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Italy's former ambassador to the United States -caught up in a corruption scandal -is expected to be subpoenaed by a House committee regarding 
U.S. aid to Iraq's Saddam Hussein channeled through a major Italian bank. 
Rep. Henry Gonzalez, D­Texas, chairman of the House Banking Committee, plans to ask the panel members Thursday for permission to subpoena the former ambas­sador, Hinaldo Petrignani, and six others associated with the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. 
"Documents reveal that Petrignani asked (U.S. gov­ernment) officials for 'damage control' when it came to" fed­eral prosecutors' investigation of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, Gonzalez said in a statement. 
Gonzalez plans to ask Petrignani for details of his meetings with former attorney general Dick Thornburgh and other Bush administration offi­cials, said a banking committee spokesperson, who asked not to be identified by name. 
BNL, which is owned by the Italian government, is one of that country's largest banks. In a politically charged fraud case, 
U.S. prosecutors accused its Atlanta. Ga.. office of funneling $5.5 billion in unauthorized loans to Iraq. Some of the loans allegedly were used to build up Saddam's military and nuclear arsenals in the years preceding the Gulf War. 
Gonzalez wants Petrignani, who now practices law in Washington, and the others to testify at a committee hearing next Tuesday. 
Stefano Honea, press coun­selor at the Italian Embassy, said he believed the former ambassador is not in 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
f-----I"•L•O•R•I•D•A ----l 
DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY 8EACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
f----C•O•L•O•R•Il•D•O -----i 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 

1----N•E•V•II.•D•II.------i 
LAS VEGAS 
S•O•U•T•H C•II.•R•O•L•I•N•A 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FRF.E FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1• BOO •SUNCHASE 
Even so, Clinton conceded he still lacks the votes for the pact -which would lower tariffs and other trade barriers among the United States, Mexico and Canada -but predicted he would when the House acts on Nov. 17. 
"We don't have them today, but we're getting there," he said. 
Congressional committees have already worked with the administration in shaping the final measure and the legisla­tion cannot be amended fur­ther. 
Washington. Recent state­Italian prosecutors issued the ments by Petrignani pledging warrant last week as part of a his cooperation indicate that he widening corruption probe "soon will put himself at the across Italy. According to disposal" of Italian authorities, Italian government sources, Honea said. Petrignani is charged with ac­
A U.S. government source, cepting a bribe from the state­who spoke on condition of run ENI energy conglomerate anonymity, also said Petrignani and SAl, a privately owned in­was expected to return volun­surance group. The sources tarily to Italy in response to the spoke on condition they not be arrest warrant. named. 
Officials said privately that Clinton still appears about 40 votes short -even with some of the 11th-hour sweeteners. 
The new items -designed almost exclusively to woo un­decided lawmakers -included help for businesses ranging from appliance manufacturers to broom makers to a $10 mil­lion authorization to build a trade study center in Texas. 
The pact, scheduled to go into effect Jan. 1 and be phased in over 15 years, would create the world's largest economic mar­ket, with 363 million people and a combined domestic prod­uct of $6.3 trillion. 
Diabetes blocked in mice, may aid humans 
By MALCOLM RITTER 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Scientists have blocked the most severe form of diabetes by heading off a destructive mistake in the immune system of mice, a step that might lead to prevention in people. 
Researchers had known that human Type I diabetes occurs when pancreas cells that pro­duce insulin are attacked by disease-fighting cells of the immune system. 
Past studies have suggested that a key target of that attack was an enzyme in the pan­creas cells called GAD, for glu­tamic acid decarboxylase. 
Now, two studies show that GAD plays the same role in mice, and that injecting mice with it can prevent diabetes. 
The studies represent "major progress," commented Steinunn Baekkeskov of the University of California, San Francisco, who identified GAD as a target in human Type I diabetes three years ago. The work opens the door to mouse research that might eventually be used to prevent diabetes in humans. she said. 
People with Type I, also known as juvenile diabetes, must take daily insulin injec­tions to survive. About 1.4 million Americans have this form of the disease. Scientists are pursuing several strate­gies to prevent it by suppress­ing the immune system attack. 
The new work is presented in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
One study was by Daniel Kaufman and colleagues at the University of California, Los Angeles. The other was by Roland Tisch, Dr. Hugh McDevitt and colleagues at the Stanford University Medical Center. 
The researchers said the work suggested such treat­ments may be useful one day for people susceptible to developing Type I diabetes. But "there's a long way between now and then," McDevitt said. 








18124 State itd. 273-9944 
-----------I--------------~---------­
Carryout or DeUvery Carryout or DeUvery Carryout Only ANY ANY 
MEDIUM

lARGE PIZZA MEDIUM PIZZA 
I-TOPPING PIZZA
LARGE 
FOR 





S3000R S200 
I
MEDIUM 

off off
CHARGE 

Get any second pizza for 1/2 Get any second pizza for 1/2 the regular menu price the regular menu price Valid on Carryout and DelivPry Valid on Carryout and Delivery 
IExpires December 19. 1993 I IExpires December 19, 1993 I 


Get any second pizza for 1!2 the regular menu price Valid on Carryout Qnly 

IExpires December 19. 1993 I 
I Pl!awmeri10nclll$0flwhenorderi'Q Onec014MJnpttparlyper portK!plrWJ Pma Hul® IISIII.f0111 ond deWtfy un11. NOTI vwoWITliiHYDiliiiOfffROR81GfoorwPI!Illn"'" 
offer ool-dd With 891101"' p~m or Perwol Pan Prno® I I/10Ccasllrede~oomI ~199JPiuaHut,lrl( 
Carryout or DeUvery 
lWO MEDIUM 
2-TOPPING PIZZAS 





$}}99 
Valid on Carryout and Delivery IEx[lires December 19. 1993 I 



------------------. --~------~------------­Thursday, November 4, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

Thursday, November 4, 1993

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Michael Spiro 
presents 

JUST SAY 
S! 
An upbeat program of music and comedy 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1993 "THE H U DOLE" 7 P.M.-9 P.M. 
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING: ACOUSTIC CAFE 
I 
}jidasproduclions 11 
••, I, • , .. ....... ,.,. ""..,I

--···-·-·---.....i ..._ _..~ ...!.,..;.:........-._.._.. --.·-J.~J I 4•$4·,-f[I.-Ji,b,' •.. l/ ....... ···;", ... : .. , ., .. :_'."I t_tlll _.... . 
' t. o • I 



VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, November 4, 1993 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, None Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar· Sports Editor ..........•......... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor. ............ Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Hero man Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported a.s accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcnt-.ries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 


Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Managing EdirorNiewpoim 631-4541 Business Office 631-5313 Spom 631-4543 News/Photo 631-5323 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor, 
I, like many others, decided to travel home over fall break. Being the nice person I am, I allowed the person next door to use my ticket and I. D. for the USC game. I did not take any money for them since it was a friend. 
Now that I think about it, I should have charged him $162. When I came back from break, I was happy to discover that my tickets had been confiscated by those "mercenary" security guards. I know that one assumes the risk of this hap­pening, but from my under­standing of others' previous experiences this year, the tick­ets are returned with no penal­ty. 
So on Monday, I traversed over to the 2nd floor ticket office of the JACC to pick up my Florida State and Boston College tickets. They were there, but to my dismay, offered to me for the ridiculous price of $162. I became dumb­founded. 
The woman at the office said it is a one game penalty and that the tickets may be picked up only for the Boston College game. Angrily. I offered sever­al solution. First, I offered to rip out the Boston College ticket and keep the Florida State tick-
DOONESBURY 

Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Advenising 63 I -6900/8840 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 
et. No. 
Then, I offered $54 as a fine, since only one third of the tick­ets remained. No. 
Finally, I even offered to sign a contract stating that if my tickets were ever confiscat­ed with my J.D. again, the hier­archy could kick me out of this schooL No. 
After all this, I left grumbling obscenities. Many things aggravate me about this. 
First, I was doing a favor for my friend, and got punished. I just figured everyone else was leaving for home and allowing friends to use tickets. 
Second, I see each day at least one-hundred advertise­ment for students selling their tickets in the Observer. If the ticket department is so con­cerned with non-students get­ting into games, why don't they find these people who are advertising, bust down their doors, and take their tickets. 
And one thing more: the Ticket Office should make the alumni and teachers sign their tickets and show their driver's licenses before entering the sta­dium. I constantly hear of teachers and alumni selling tickets for obscene amounts. 
Finally, and this is the on thing that upsets me the most, is something the woman at the ticket counter told me. She said for all the previous games, only around ten booklets were confiscated and for those games the booklets were returned to the owners free of charge. However, for the USC game, ironically the game before Florida State, the tickets could only be returned by pay­ing $162. Why would tickets from previous games be returned but not the ones from the USC weekend? The woman's answer was that because about 100 booklets were taken this time. 
Who cares? What did you people expect? It's no coinci­dence that 100 booklets were taken during fall break, right? Why were people let off the hook before, but not now? Why were some people punished and not others? Why isn't a $54 fine appropriate? 
I do not know. Maybe the athletic department wants to milk every cent they can out of this Florida State game. Whatever the case, I just want­ed to vent my frustrations with this policy, and speak for the other 100 students who were wrongfully dumped on. 
PATRICK WASSER 
Sophomore 
Grace Hall 

When ND is not supposed to win, they perform at their best 
Dear Editor: 

I found the column by Viewpoint editor Rolando De Aquiar to be quite amusing. In it, Rolando boldly claims that the Florida State Seminoles are going to walk into the House that Rockne built on November 13 and quickly and brutally de­stroy the Irish. 
He continues with this ar­gument by stating that Notre Dame's schedule is weak, while FSU's schedule is the toughest in the country. Also, FSU has dominated every opponent so far. 
Three Seminole opponents he uses as examples of this schedule·are Miami, Florida, and Notre Dame. 
Hey, Rolando. Take a close look at those three teams. Florida State has only played one of them. They've achieved their lofty status so far by beat­ing the likes of Wake Forest, Duke, Kansas, and Georgia Tech. 
Granted, Notre Dame's schedule this year has not been what is has been in the past, but good teams bulldoze through weaker opponents, as the Seminole and the Irish have done so far this year. 
The major test for FSU this year was Miami, and they passed. However, if anyone watched the game, as Rolando obviously didn't, Miami played FSU toe to toe for all 60 min­utes, proving to the world that the almighty Seminoles are in­deed, human. 
Notre Dame has also passed its only major test of the year so far by beating the University of Michigan. Walking into Michigan stadium against a team that was supposed to, 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
well, kill the Irish, and beating them soundly is a great ac­complishment, no matter what the Wolverines are doing now. 
Last point, oh great prophet Rolando. There was one factor you forgot to add to your equa­tion -Lou Holtz. No matter what you think of our beloved guru, you have to admire his record in games when the Irish weren't supposed to win. 
Exhibit A • the 1988 Miami game. The fourth ranked but supposedly less talented Irish 
' I can't tell you who will win The Game, but, rest assured, Rolando, you give the Irish far less credit than they deserve.' 
face off against the mighty Hurricanes, defending national champions. Does 31-30 ring a bell? 
Furthermore, I present ex­hibit B -the 1990 Miami game. The much-maligned Irish de­fense was supposed to get burned for somewhere around 80 to 90 points and get embar­rassed on national television and at home. I don't need to point out the score of that one. 
I can't tell you who will win The Game, but, rest assured, Rolando, you give the Irish far less credit than they deserve. 
It's going to be a hell of a game. Count on it. 
BRAD SHEBIB 
Senior 
Zahm Hall 


~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
page 10 Thursday, November 4, 1993
VIEWPOINT 

BONG MIQUIABAS DOMESTRUCK 
The pride of the Irish can be found throughout our campus 

it. lie criticizes anyone who messes up, as if he's in a posi­tion to." 
I couldn't resist a wisecrack. "So what's the big deal? You coming from New Jersey with that attitude of yours should be able to shrug it off." 
"I know. but this is different, though," he said, still annoyed, "we're all a bunch of fading jocks, so why does he have to be stupidly intense'? C'mon, interhall?" 
lie turned somber, ''I'm beginning to wonder if people here are too proud for their own good. Maybe I'm wrong ... " 
I was alarmed. "Now wait a minute. You're not saying that Notre Dame people are egotisti­cal. are you?" 
Dave bristled uncomfortably, "I don't know, but run-ins with people like Pele II make me wonder." 
At that moment, our buddy Kate entered the room with some notes she agreed to lend me. Dave decided to indulge her opinion, she being one of the most down-to-earth people we know. He retold the story as well as his emerging theory. 
"And I'm not talking about isolated incidents," Dave argued, "from A.P. credit brag­ging to mid-term grade announcing to job oiTer name­dropping, freshmen to seniors, there is a pattern of too much pride all around." 
Kate pondered quietly with her unmistakable Kansas cau­tion, "Gee, you may have a point there, Dave. I tend to think insecurity is the problem. All these people were the head honchos at their respective high schools-academically, socially. athletically, and many times, in all of the above. So when they discover here that they're just another face in the crowd, they celebrate themselves wherever and whenever they can." 
"But those attitudes don't dis­appear after freshman year," Dave countered. "Self-centered statements come across in my higher level classes, too. For example, many people will just happen to let me know when they rocked the last exam or major paper, as if I cared. 
"Or take the social scene. I know way too many guys who like to make public service announcements about all the women they know. My female friends are equally pathetic with their guy talk. 
"And from my most recent experience, interhall sports and even pick-up games frequently bring comments out like 'how awesome my high school was' at this or 'we were ranked in the state' for that. 
"Basically," Dave concluded with a flourish, "pride comes up in every setting imaginable, just like a damned phoenix!" 
"Nice simile!" I observed irrelevantly. 
Kate remarked thoughtfully, "We talked in class the other day about Augustine's concept of pride, how people can fall prey to placing themselves at the center of the universe instead of God-" 

Dave interrupted abruptly, ''I'm not talking about philoso­phy, Kate, I'm talking about practical life." 
"It was theology class." 

"Anyway," I intervened, "I think Kate's right. People say and do egotistical things because they are insecure about how others view them. We all want people to look upon ourselves favorably or with admiration. But if you're truly secure, then there is no need to impress others by glorifying yourself." 
Kate agreed, "Just look at the way this school shamelessly promotes 'Rudy,' complete with supposedly star-studded pre­mieres and special invitations. Why do we need to do these sorts of things? Those cheer­leaders in the administration throw out the line that it's a movie about persistence and chasing one's dream... 
(Dave and I oohed and aahed.) 
Hollywood, but then we place our stamp of approval on his efforts with a cheesy half-time salute at one of our precious home football games." 
I seconded the notion, "Yeah, and you can take that one step further with the football mania. I mean, who are we to say we deserve to be national champs? Florida State will be tough to stop, and what. about Alabama's chances?" 
Suddenly, I felt the white hot glare of two pairs of' otherwise reasonable eyes singe my skin. 
Kate snapped, "It's one thing to indict the students, or even the administration, but lay off the football team!" 
Dave glowered at me in utter disbelief while I cowered repen­tantly, tempted to assume the fetal position. I thought to myself, "Here come the Irish, yet again." 
Bong Miquiabas is a senior in the college of Arts and Letters. /lis column appears sporadical­ly. 

JOSH OZERSKY I, FARRINGTON 
Forget NCAA crown glory, let's store our treasures in heaven 
Notre Dame has the reputa­are confronted with portly sol­tion as a University with a high­diers in ND tam o'shanters eat­er ethical standard. Is this real­ing nachos by the light of Army 
for our "loyal sons" when the enslaved; we have the power to sons of the Haitian people are sound the alarums. Will we pick
as Aaron Taylor, Lake Dawson have none." We have stored up It was not as a football pow­
condemned to toil and shiver up our cross, or the down 
and Coach Holtz himself to treasure in heaven, where erhouse that Notre Dame was
under the secret police? This is markers? I put it to you, Coach 
annouce our refusal to partici­thieves cannot steal, and chartered. In today's world, our
not the life to which heaven is Holtz, and the entire Notre 
pate, and bow down in a leagues cannot sanction. Surely students must be aware of
promised. Dame administration: let's for-
moment of silence for Haiti at we do these players a greater higher ideals than personal
I can think of no better way to feit the game. _
the fifty-yard line. service by guiding them in the glory and collegiate rankings.
get back to our mission here at Josh Ozersky is a graduate
Let Coach Bowden and his paths of righteousness than by Why do we express surprise at
Notre Dame du Lac than by student in history. /lis essay 011 
Seminoles have their bauble. raising their stock in the the hostility of Somalia when
spreading the word on national "Seinfeld" will appear in a 
"Silver and gold NCAA rings we National Football League draft. these starving men and women
TV. Were our loyal sons such forthcoming issue of Tikkun. 




Thursday, November 4, 1993 page 11 
Bandon cS!a:~e Company relurns Ia dazzle Xo!re 7Jame 
By CHRIS LENKO don Stage company takes to Accent Writer educating students and helping them view drama as both the­
The weekend that many have ater and life is unique. Barkes been looking forward to since described the group as "the the beginning of the year is only company of its kind in the finally here. The box office is world." sold out, tickets are next to In addition to performing impossible to get, and unless Shakespeare, the actors also you are prepared to offer large hold workshops for students in sums of money in exchange for English and Theater Depart­a coveted seat, it looks like like ments. you're out of luck. "Shakespeare is often taught 
Actors from the London Stage and studied as literature, al­Company, currently touring in though it was meant to be per­the United States, will be per­formed," Howey explained. "We 
forming "Hamlet," at Wash­like to bring the plays to life. I 
-

ington Hall at 8:10p.m. on Nov. call our approach the 'page to 4th, 5th and 6th. stage' method. Students in En­The London Stage Company glish classes close their note­
performed "As You Like It" at books, push their desks aside, Notre Dame three years ago. and act out and direct the The actors "really knocked peo­scenes." ple over the last time they were It is this direct interaction here," according to Tom with and feedback from stu­Barkes, facility manager at dents that the actors find most 
Washington Hall. The reputa­challenging and most reward­tion of the London Stage ing, and what drives some of Company probably explains Britain's most talented per­
why the shows are sold out. formers to come to join the The actors are looking for­company in spite of the de­ward to this weekend's shows, mands of a hectic schedule and 
according to David Howey, who Other actors performing in Russell agreed, adding that works accessible to the average travel. 
The chance to work with
plays Claudius as well as sever­Hamlet include Sam Dale, there is a different approach to American. 
actors who value their audi·­
al other characters in the pro­William Russell and Johnathon acting in the United States than "In larger productions, direc­
duction. ences and are eager to share
Donne and actress Miranda in Britain. tors often attempt to make the He described the enthusiasm their experiences is what
Foster. Barkes said the actors "In England, performances play more accessible to audi­students have for the show as who work with the company, all don't depend so much on ences by using modern set­excites students around the 
country and has earned the
extraordinary. "Our formula of whom are freelance actors, character development," said tings." Howey said. "However, works," he said. "The feedback are some of Britain's finest. Russell. "In the United States, we don't have a director, and London Stage Company an 
international reputation.
we get from students and facul­Because only five members of character is primary, and we have a responsibility to pre­
ty is always positive." Barkes said that hopes that
the company are performing, American actors tend to get sent the play as it is written, as 

Howey attributed the enthusi­the London Stage Company will 
each actor must assume multi­more into their characters." clearly as possible." asm the show has generated to ple roles. With only five actors and little The actors want students to return to Washington Hall in both an excellent publicity cam­Howey said that with prac­scenery to assist them, mem­understand Shakespeare, and the future, and says that the 
Department of Communication
paign and Notre Dame's solid tice, moving in and out of dif­bers of the London Stage appreciate how his works con­theater department. "The facul­ferent roles becomes easier. He Company are able to do what tinue to impact on people hun­and Theater is anxious to con­ty are ready for us and the stu­explained that British actors many full-scale productions dreds of years after they were tinue to work with the compa­dents are primed," he said. are accustomed to it, and can't-make Shakespeare's written. The approach the Lon-ny. 
South Bend sound of XYZ Affair 


By MATT CARBONE their influences, as does Then we start to jam as a band. Accent Writer Gruszynski, who also shares a After that, I structure the lyrics jazz background with Fluhme. around the mood I get from the 
Among the racks of CDs at Added to all of this is music." Tracks, not ten feet from Pearl Fluhme's love of the "old clas­Jam's platinum-selling "Vs.," sics" -glam rockers Kiss, Anyone who has seen the lies an album with a special Motley Crue and Def Leppard. band perform at Bridget's, Notre Dame flavor, and slightly Rozycki described the band's Senior Bar or at various Dillon fewer copies sold. music as "strongly emotional -Hall functions (Fluhme is a 
It is the full-length, self-titled heavy metal meeting U2." senior Dillonite, while Rivera CD released by Notre Dame Fluhme said that they play and Gruszynski are former resi­campus band XYZ Affair. music that people will like, "but dents) knows that they are tal­
XYZ Affair, known to patrons that still has some kick. I think ented. 
of Bridget's and Senior Bar, is we have the band with the most "We try to pick powerful now in its fourth year of playing power -the other bands [on material [for live performances] on and around campus. campus) are wimps." that creates an emotional tie 
The band is composed of "We are not grunge," said with the audience," said three natives of South Bend, Gruszynski, "which is basically Rozycki. lead singer Todd Rozycki, lead everything else out there Todd McNamee is someone guitarist Scott Gruszynski and today." who has felt this emotional bass guitarist Anton Rivera, bond. Over four years, he has and drummer Derrick Fluhme, These varying tastes are evi­grown into a big fan of the who hails from Pittsburgh. dent on the self-titled CD, which band. "Wherever XYZ Affair 
Hozycki, Gruszynski and contains eight original songs plays, I'm there," said Rivera have been friends with composed by the band. McNamee. "Those guys can each other since the sixth Once the band had several rock." grade, and have been playing originals written and 
together as XYZ Affair since rehearsed, they went into the Rozycki explained his philoso­their freshmen year at Saint studio. After four eight-hour phy of performing. "I like to put Joseph Iligh School. days of recording, the final everything I have, all my ener­product, now on sale at Tracks, gy, into my singing," said 

Fluhme, in a scene early rem­was complete. Rozycki. ''I'm not just going to in May, and Rozycki and ever, XYZ Affair will continue iniscent of Spinal Tap. is the "We challenge ourselves with stand there." Fluhme headed to medical to play the local bars, with the band's fourth drummer in eight our originals," said Gruszynski. Fluhme echoed Rozycki's school, it will be difficult for CD hopefully increasing their years, and has been playing "Rather than have a simple 3-comments. "I don't just sit be­Fluhme and XYZ Affair to fol­legions of fans. ''I'm disappoint­with the band for two years. chord song, we make songs hind my drums -it's a theatri­low in the footsteps of Motley ed with the local college music 
The personal tastes and influ­with a more technical complex­cal thing," said Fluhme. "I want Crue and other bands that have · scene," said Rivera. "There's a ences of XYZ Affair are, in a ity." people to recognize the drums." made it big. lack of interest in bands, and a word, eclectic. Rivera and The music for all of the songs Fluhme has the musical Still, the band is not giving lack of places for bands to Rozycki list U2 and Rush among was composed by Rivera and bloodlines to do just that. He is up. Rivera plans to send out play." 
Gruszynski, with all lyrics writ­a cousin of Tommy Lee, the copies of the CD to major Even so, maybe someday XYZCORRECTIONS ten by Rozycki. drummer for Motley Crue. record labels and see what they Affair will have its own new-re­In a story in Tuesday's Ob­
Rozycki described the band's "We've jammed a few times to­say about the band. "If there's a lease party, complete with server, Professor Jill God­
creative process in composing gether," said Fluhme. "He's promising future for us, we Cactus Jack's quesadillas, and milow's name was misspelled. 
their originals. "Scott been a huge influence on my might try it and see what hap­as Gruszynski says, "Everyone The Observer regrets the 
IGruszynski) and Anton [Rivera) music and in my life." pens." will be talking about the 'South error. 
come up with riffs that work. With all members graduating Until such a time comes, how-Bend sound."' 
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 4, 1993 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
.....___N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ __.l 
Typing 287-4082 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259-8684. 
Resumes Usa 273-6332 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Very Lost: A small, black leather bag with a shoulder strap, that con­tained a Nikon camera lens, as well as instructions. Not really sure where it could be... If you have seen it, please call Brian at 113363. Thanks! 
LOST -Long dangle clip earrings @ SMC computer lab. Call Val 284­4395 
LOST Heart Locket at USC rally EXTREME Personal value X2485 
LOSTII Two Fall-Jackets during the weekend of USC game : one light grey with dark grey stripes and one navy-blue with a green collar. Finder pl. contact 1-4350 and leave message any time. 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Eam up to $2Cl00+/mo. Summer and Career employment available. No experi­ence necessary. For more informa­tion 1-206-634-()468 ext. C5584 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's 111 Spring Break company! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL NOWI TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-n10 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go FREEl Bast trips & prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! Great Resume expe­rience! 1-800-678-63861 
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREEl!! Student Travel Services is now hir­Ing campus reps. Call @ 800-648­
4849. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/M0 +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 EXT31 
EARN $2500 FREE TRIPS! Student Holidays, tha nation's leader In Spring Break vacations, seeklng enthusiastic, highly motivat­ed students and fraternities to be the Notre Dame reps. EARN HIGH­EST COMMISSIONS AND TRAVEL FREEl Cancunl Daytona Beach! CALL NOW 1-800-360-TRIPI 
NOW HIRING­
WINGS, ETC. 
Smiling faces, servers, cooks, dish­
washers, all shifts. Will train. Apply 
at our newest location: 
6502 N. Grape Road. 
Wholesale Book Distribution seek­Ing part-time workers. Hours flexi­ble to meet your schedule. Call 232-8500. 
TRAVEL SALES! Sunchase Ski & Beach Breaks is accepting applica­tions for Spring Break Campus Reps. Earn top $$$ and FREE TRIPS. 1-800-SUNCHASE 
Green Streat Station is now hiring part-time retail clerks for Christmas. All hours available starting pay $5.00. Positions available at UP Mall and Scottsdale Mall. Apply in person at UP Mall. Store located outside of Casual Comers. 
I need Hamlet tixl Call @ x2289 
I 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Seeking rommate to share house. $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 Min from ND Stadium $200 a week­end 616-699-7137 
NEED LODGING -GAMES OR ANY NO OCCASION-CALL 291­9011 
6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS 
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. 
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL 
NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 
Lodging -Riverfront -Private. 257-9101. 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­able for parents on weekends. 219­291-2899. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $2791 Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291 Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/ Kitchen $1491 1-800-678-6386 
FOR SALE: MICROSOFTWORD 
5.1 FOR MACINTOSH. FACTORY SEALED. CALL 273-8519 TO MAKE AN OFFER. 
WHY PAY RETAIL? MAC MICE FOR SALE $20 STEVE X41644 
SNOW SKIS Rossignal 7S 203cm w/ Marker Bindings Call KJ @ 232­
7838 
SEE THE WORLD FOR $1001 anywhere btween Chic. and Port.,OR. Amtrak tic. 2545 
2 FSU GA's 4sale BEST OFFER x3489 
FSU & BC stud tix 4sale best offer x3489 
For Sale:Two FSU GAs, 273-9805 Leave Name & Offer. 
TICKETS 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. 
Need 2 GAs for any home game Call nm at273-1757 
1 45 yd line ticket FSU Make me an offer. call x1748 
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­6183. 
We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO) 457­
0486. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STAT~ GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 
92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1-800-7 49-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets 
Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC Call 232-7316 from 7-8 pm. 
I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's call Beth@ X2615 
NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND $$$1111 CALL TOM 254-9013 
My cousin Frankie is coming out. He needs one FSU student ticket. Call Joe Russo at 234-6306. 
FOR SALE 2 FSU stud 233-9279 Richard 
FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN ALL CALLS 
$$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$ For Sale: GA's for all games. 277­1659. 
I NEED FLA STATE GA'SII! CALL •• 232-5030 •• 
R.T. Ticket S.B. to Boston. Leave 11/17, return 11/21. $200 or BO. Call 271-1623. 
Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted! Please call (407)438-3697 
FSUGA 40 yd In, row 24 
NEED I SAY MORE? Tim@ 608-255-2175 
NEED 1 OR 2 
BOSTON COLLEGE TIX CALL 634-2856 
2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BEST OFFER-JON 215-630-9329 
FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV.5 CALL WADE -0789 
FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC 
FOR SALE #1 vs. #2 -it's worth every penny! Call Levell at 3305-let's negotiate 
Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any home game. Call Aaron @ 272­3418 
FOR SALE: 2 FSU tix 
Moira x1275 or Cella x1281 
Need two std tickets for Florida St. Will pay $100 per. If interested, call 2n-4B17 
FSU GA4Sale Call Kevin 31 0-444-9923 
Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. GA's. Call Dan X1694 
1 FSU Stud. Tik 4 Sale 
Make Offer Mike x4246 
1 FSU GA 4SALE. Best offer by 
Nov. 7. Mike219-634-1187 
Interested in FSU tickets?? 
How about two FSU for $3? -for a 
raffle ticket. 
Each ticket earns the bearer a chance to win two FSU tix. 
Tickets are available thru Sophomore Class Council Dorm Representatives. 
Drawing is Nov. 8 at La Casa de Amistad. 
I STILL HAVE AN FSU GAl CALL MEG AT 2n3 WITH BEST OFFER. 
FOR SALE 
2FSUGA'S 
CALL 634-3554 AND LEAVE MESSAGE ... 
Selling FSU student ticket Leave message 
Best Offer Mindy 284-5490 
NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL JIM 4022 
NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651 
Needed: 3 FSU and 1 BC nx 
Student or GA call Kathleen x4241 
I NEED FSU Studs Kevin x0542 
4 Fla. St. Stud Tix for sale-Best offer for one or all. Call x4436. 
2 Sr. FSU & BC tix 4 sale 232-4112 Liz BO 
I need 4 STUD Tix for BC gamel Please call x12601 
2FSU GA's and stud.tix 4sale Ricky x3515 
4Sale: 3FSU stu tics, 2 are married, BC as bonus. (616)383-9366. 
NEED 2 BC G.A. CALL JIM x17B6 FOR SALE 2 FSU, 2 BC GA'S. 273-9838 
FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL DOUG AT 234-6306. 
FSU Sen. Stud. Tck for sale.Leave name, #, offer. 273-5909-Pete. 
2 FLA ST TCKTS ROW3 BEST OFFER CALL TODD W (513)771­
5871 AFTER 8PM 
Akron, Ohio fan needs 2 FSU tick­ets. Call collect 216-633-1072, Francis, alter 9pm please. 
NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 (MARK) 
2 FSU ST TIX 4 SALE 
X2343 LEAVE BEST OFFER 
Yeah!!! FSU tix 4 sale, GA's & stud Call Tom@ 254-9068 
......FLORIDA STATE ....... 
STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE call now----5upplies limited call JAMIE at x1n8 make me a good offer, and it is yours!!! 
Need 4 Stu. Tix. for BC Call Colleen x42785 
I have 2 FSU stud tix (next to each other) to trade, w/ male/female id's for a roundtrip airfare outside N. Amer. for X-mas break. OR a reli­able car. CALL 2289 
I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 
FSU and BC Stud Tix 4 sale!!! Call 232-2843 and leave best offer. Will sell to best offer by 11/5/9311 
FOR SALE: Two Florida State GA's Will call back best five offers. 
Call Brian at 273-4865. (Call before Wednesday Nov. 8) 
SELL 2 FSU GAs South Corner Serious$$$ only 2n-5912 
I HAVE 1 FLA ST STUD 4 SALE Chris 271-7807 
For Sale: 2 FSU stud. tix. Make best offer. Jim x4310 
WILL PAY $175 A TICKET FOR FLORIDA STATE GA'S 233-9025 
SELLING: FSU GA'S Serious $ only Brett 273-0986 
2 Hot Babes selling 2 FRONT ROW FSU Student tixsl I D's optional ­let's negotiate! 634-9437 
I really, really need 2 B.C. tickets! Call Amy @ 4-4954 
Need 4 BC GAs. Will trade stud. FSU ticket plus $$$. Tara 4376 
...4 Sate• .. FSU stud BO by 11/5 284-5542 
$$TO BURN?? 4 FSU GA'S FOR SALE CALL ROB AT X3249 AND LEAVE AN OFFER 
2 FSU STUD. TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL#1560 
FOR SALE 2 FLORIDA ST. GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 11/1 0. (401) 847-2173 
Top$ Fla State GAs 313 981-0238 
2 Good Samaritans selling FSU stud tix 284-5409 by Fri. 
For sale: FSU -BC stu tix. Best offer. Call Tara 284-5197. 
NEED FSU TIX STU ORGA Call Collect (914)294-6546 Ask For Dennis 
For Sale: 2 FSU Stud Tix Call x2312 
For Sale: 1 FSU Stud Tic Call x2312 
FSU STUD. TIC FOR SALE. B/0. CALL 4-4902. 
1 FSU Stud Senior Pis bid thru 11n, x2164 4 FSU GA's for sale Call w/offer x2264 

Willing to pay big $$$ for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's. Call Pat @ 273-5094 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 TIX. 
(STUD. OR GA'S) FOR BC. 
PLEASE CALL LISA X1297. 
Need tickets-Notre Dame vs. FSU game. Call Jim (904)788-5060 
ASAP. 

FOR SALE: 3 FSU GA's best offer by 11/10 Call Tracey 273-3930 
Guess What? I need FSU ticket, GA or Stud. X-1305 
For Sale: 2 FSU GA's. Best Offer-Call Soon!! Nick 4-1376 
FSU Stu tix for sale. Make best 
realistic offer x 3421 
I need GA tickets to BC. Rick 273­
5347 

2 N.D.-FSU 
1993 National Championship 
Student Tickets 
Make Offer @ 232-8363 
Happy Nov. 1311 have 2 FSU stu tix 4 u. Call & leave offer. x4420. 
1 FSU G.A. HIGHEST BIDDER-NEXT 4 DAYS 314/962-4876 
Need 2 FSU Stud Tix Bill 233-2387 
FOR SALE: 5 FSU stu. tix. Call 
Dare! orTonya at 291-3818. 
Poor grad stdnt needs reasonable FS stnt or GA Paul 273-1364 
....., have FSU GAs• .... 
Call with Best Offer $500+ by 11/06. 232-9751 
Need BC GAs. Call x3669 and leave offer. 
FSU sr. stud. for sale. Call x3669 and leave offer. 
FOR SALE: 4 FSU GA'S TOGETH­ER ON 40-YD LINE CALL BILL AT 291-6216 
HAVE 1 FSU GA WANT IT? CALL MATTY x1865 
nx.4 Sale FSU GAs&BCstud. 
Need $ NOW 4 trip home. Will sell 2 FSU GAs at cost. Call John x1466 
For sale: 1 FSU stud. call Mike @x2022. 
Tickets for sale: 2 FSU GA's togeth­er. Call Dan or John, ext #4289. BEST OFFER! 
2 Florida State G.A's together Call 4-3192 Best offer by Nov. 1 0 
Need HAMLET ticket 
for Thursday. Will trade for Friday's ticket or pay cash. Call Sarah at 284-4369. 
1 FSU GA -Best offer -Leave a message at (203)644-7119 
FSU STUD TIX FOR SALE Scott x1071 Best Offer 
I have two FSU stud. tix for sale. BestofferX2851 
4 FSU studentlixs call X 3101 and make an offer. 
FOR SALE:2 FSU GA'S. Call Kelly @ 634-3723 & leave offer. 
SALE 2 BC GA'S $125each x3666 
For Sale:4 FSU GAs call 634-1833 
THE ULTIMATE PACKAGE!! 
2 Stu Tix (I.D. extra $) 
FSU &/or BC 
273-6288 (B.O.) 
Several FSU Stud Tix 4 sale Call Doug x4562 w/ offer 
2 FSU stud. tix 4 sale. Best offer x 
2147. 
I DESPERATELY NEED BC STUD. TIX. CALL JEN @ X 1308 
NEEDED: One BC Stud or GA for a groovy cousin!! 4-1339. 
2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. BEST 
OFFER. MARTY x1521. 
PERSONAL 
Consider a life of patient love from 
Mom, financial security from Dad, 
laughter and music in a country 
home for your baby. Please call 
Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 anytime. 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­place in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369­2597 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 
Did you know? 
Harvey Leo is now 21. 
Guinness is good for you II 
SPRING 1993 LONDONERS: call Pony at 2n-5612 to receive 
special information ... 
2 FSU GAs and Parking Pass for 
sale. Best offer by 11/11 . 
Call Dave, 4-2246. 
PE PE PE PE PE PE PE PE 
Top Ten Reasons Why PYROMA­NIA '93 is the sizzling sensation of the semester! 
10. You can burn things. 
9. Free food. 
8. It's too hot to handle . 
7. It does not require a date. 
6. Finally a good reason for the fire alarms to go off. 
5. Flrel Fire! Fire! ... heh ... heh ... is cool. 
4. This is the only burning activity that is legal under DuLac. 
3. Catherine Anderson says, 
"Pyromania '93-it's better than finding the Absolut shirt and tar feathering the kleptol" 
2. We can raise some bumin' hell in frigid South Bend. 
1. Wearing black and red is sexy. 
PE PE PE PE PE PE PE PE 
Dear Jeff-1 LOVE YOUI Please 
escort me to P.E.'s SYR Fri.-M. 
I NEED A RIDE TO BALL STATE THIS WEEKEND. I WILL PAY FOR GAS. DAVID X2506 
What do you call an ocean-going bird that has had a little too much to drink??? ???Tipsea-gull. 
What do you call an ocean-going 
bird with two wheels and a handle­
bar??? 
??? A bisea-gull. 
What do you call an ocean-going 
bird that belongs in a nut house (or 
on the D.C. seminar)??? 
??? Cra-zea gull. 
What do you call a blind ocean­going bird??? 
??? Can't see gull. 
What do you call an ocean-going 
bird invovled in National Service????? Eli Sea-gull. ??? Ell Sea-gull 
NINAZ: HAPPY B-Day from Marisol, Rodney, "city-killers", and mel 
Hey you guysllll Mud wants to buy the t-shirt ,"Why do all the trees on campus bend to the west...?" Call her today so she will no longer be naked. X2575. 
i need a hero doas he wear a green hat 

---------------~---------~---------------~-­
Thursday, November 4, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Holyfield vows not to make same mistake 
By TIM DAHLBERG threw 23 years of ring experi­Associated Press ence and a heavyweight cham­pionship away in a desperate

Shaquille LAS VEGAS attempt to knock Riddick Bowe
the NBA's most rn-~ll"ICAUl 
Evander Holyfield figures he out the first time they met. 

player, it.dded another to his endorsement pa.,_, ... ,.5 ., Wednesday, giving exclusive··· rights to his autograph to Score Board Inc. HQ.UlUW.·A 
he 

Score Board Inc., parent cards' company of Classic Trading ness. the COIUPliUlY Cards, also received rights to ing Christmas, produce memorabilia and col­announe~m:ent cards that lectibles bearing the likeness go on the markefsoon, accord­of the Orlando Magic center in ing to Ken Goldin, executive its five-year agreement. vice president ofScore Board, 
Terms of the deal were not "We believe this is the most disclosed, but O'Neal is far-reathing agreement of its believed to have received a kind," Goldin said. " --­
.__ ...,*-:::''''··· 


-----------·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-----·-·------·-··-----·---·----------------·-·-·-·-·-"·'·'·"·"""·'·'·'·'·'·'·'·'·'· TUESDAY .,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,..,.,.,.,.,..,.,.,.,.,.,.,. ,.,...,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,...-.,.,.,...,...,.,.,.,...,...,...,...,.....,. 
9 PM-12 AM $1.00 per game! 

·· ---·---·---··-·---.-·-···-·····-··"·'~""""""'·······"'·'*"·'·'*··············" THURSDAY .w.·.··········'-"''"'······-·.-.-.......-.·.····························----····-·.w.-...•.w.·.········· 
TIME BOWL 9:30-11:30 PM Only $10 per lane! 
""..........__. ............................,.........._........,.....-.-.·.····· STUDENT SPECIAL ""·""··············-·.·.·.·.·.·.···················--·······················---········ 
Anytime! $1.35 per game Anytime! 

Evander Holyfield blames his own mistakes for his first loss to Riddick Bowe and vows he will not make them in their rematch. 


CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases 
FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 

STUDENT ACCOMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. 
WE TAKE SECURITY AND SAFETY SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 

He vows not to make the same mistake again Saturday night when the two return to the ring to fight for the heavy­weight titles now held by Bowe. 
"I just didn't fight a smart fight and rely on my experience that time," Holyfield said. "I went out there and forgot everything because I wanted to knock this man out." 
If the 31-year-old former champion is a year older since losing a unanimous decision and the heavyweight titles to Bowe last Nov. 13, he also claims to be a much wiser fighter than the one who tried to trade punches toe-to-toe with a man five years younger and 30 pounds heavier . 
It was a strategy Holyfield thought would show the world he was a legitimate heavy­weight champion, not a beefed­up cruiserweight who failed to impress the critics in the two years he held the title. 
But it failed miserably when Bowe took advantage of his inside punching power to pum­mel Holyfield across the ring, knocking him down in the 11th round and sending him to his first loss in 29 pro fights. 
"I fought with a lot of heart and courage but it wasn't a thinking fight," Holyfield said. "It was the type of fight that excited fans, but it was not the type of fight I should have fought." 
Holyfield said he put pressure on himself to knock out Bowe, following criticism of his three title defenses against 40-some­thing fighters George Foreman and Larry Holmes, and journey­man Bert Cooper. 
Though the fights made h'im tens of millions of dollars, they 
didn't get him the  type  of  
respect he  was  seeking  as  
heavyweight champion.  

"I wanted to go out there and impress myself but mostly impress the media, so I went for a sensational knockout," Holyfield said. "I thought this was a way to silence everybody, by knocking out a guy that is bigger and younger and stronger." 
Holyfield and Bowe appeared at the final pre-fight press eon­ference Wednesday, where the former champion predicted he would regain the crown Saturday night. 
"It's a promise, I will be the champion," Holyfield said. 
The Nevada State Athletic Commission, meanwhile, ruled that the fight would take place in a 20-foot ring, the same as the first bout. Bowe's camp had asked for an 18-foot ring, while Holyfield's countered with a 22­foot request. 
"As long as I can get my hands on him, it doesn't mat­ter," Bowe said. 
Holyfield, who briefly retired after the first fight, said watch­ing tapes of the loss convinced him that he could beat Bowe if he fought a smart, patient fight and stayed away from the mid­dle of the ring. 
He was further encouraged in his only fight since the loss, a 12-round decision over Alex Stewart in June that had fans 
booing and fight observers unimpressed. "The fans booed, but wouldn't let them draw me into
2 72--1441 

a toe-to-toe exchange," 
Holyfield said. 

ire o e in omewor 1 
en ivesome! 
N.D. an S.M.C. Seniors: 
Be teachers in the Southeastern 
Ill

United States! .. I 

2.} Teacher training, profossional development, and the opportuniry for amasters in education. 3.) An opportuniry for spiritual development. 4.) Acommunal living environment. 5.) Astipend insurance, and aone year, renewabk teaching contract. 
There will be an information meeting on '11an., New. 4, at &50 paa in the Notre Dame Room on the Second Floor of LaFortune. If you are unable to attena or have any questions please contact either Pr. TiaaW,, ac{1-7052) or SemM.Qaw (257-9524). 
... 
i 
"' 
I 
_· .'. ."'·"'· 
---~---~-------------­

Thursday, November 4, 1993 The Observer • BASEBALL page 15 
Maddux earns second Cy Young award 
By jOE KAY AP Writer 
CINCINNATI , ~ate 

The Cincinnati Reds had rand three holes when the season. :t! pitcher ended: starting pitching, sec~ one in ond base and third base. .K to 
General manager Jim'lk ··.· • Bowden thinks he's taken care of the first two with one trade. He hopes the third area ?t. "~ third base -will take care of .; itself. · 
The Reds acquired a starting pitcher an(l second baseman on Tuesday night by sending pitcher Bobby Ayala and catcher Dan Wilson to Seattle for Erik Hanson and Bret Boone. .,, decided 
Hanson, 28, becomes the Wout or club's No. 3 starter. Boone, 24. tiori. filled the gap left by second an(! 

See yourself with 
Hairstyle Changes. 
Completely Risk Free! 
In as little as 10 minutes, you'll receive a video tape fea­turing YOU with 12 hairstyle changes of your choice from a portfolio of over 400 styles ... all for $20. 
Visit us at 
The Castle 272--0312 
Call for appointment 
November 19 & 20 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The best way for Greg Maddux to show the Atlanta Braves he was worth the big money was to win a second straight Cy Young Award. 
And Maddux did just that Wednesday, joining Sandy Koufax as the only National Leaguers to win the honor in successive seasons. 
Maddux was 20-10 with a major league-leading 2.36 ERA in his first season for Atlanta, and became the first pitcher to win the award in consecutive years with different teams. He went 20-11 with a 2.18 ERA in 1992 for the Chicago Cubs, then signed a five-year, $28 million free-agent contract with the Braves. 
"You change teams and you want to make a good first impression," Maddux said. "I feel like I've done that. ... I didn't really change anything in the way I pitched. I pretty much tried to do the same things that have always worked in the past." 
Maddux received 22 of the 28 


Featuring ... 
T 'h:· e, R:'...:o··· a··d··:a· p·· p·· l'e· s·: 
.... ..: .... ::.:: ..... ·... '...) :::..:. :.. ). ..::...:. ..:-..) ..:..) ...'. ·:::.:: ...) 
(winner of the Battle of the Bands) 
&.. .....·· 
•·r:a.S'.h the: e.,r:av:e.n
,_.....·.·.··.·..··· ······· ...· ....... · ...·.· ....·· .....·.·.·· .· ....·· ....... . 

Friday Nov. 5 9pm-12 :30am Ballroom 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
SUB: crazy stuff and more! 

Trme 3Irru everm~ irm ~rme corrn~imn11irmg IL ((]) IFil seirie§ ~ 
first-place votes in balloting by 13 of his last 15 decisions in the Baseball Writers leading the Braves' surge to Association of America. He eas-their third straight NL West ily outdistanced San Francisco's championship. The right-han­Bill Swift and John Burkett and der made 36 starts and pitched Braves teammate Tom Glavine 267 innings, led the league with -all with more victories but eight complete games and was higher ERAs. /• third with 197 strikeouts. 
"I am surprised," Maddux said from his home in Las. ' "I don't really think about 
Vegas. "I think the most impor­tant stat is games won, and Glav and Swift and Burkett all won more than I did." 
No pitcher was named on all 28 ballots. Jack McDowell won the AL's Cy Young winner Tuesday and was the only pitcher listed on every ballot. 
Koufax won the award in 1965-66 with the Los Angeles Dodgers, when only one Cy Young was presented. Koufax also won in 1963. 
"I don't consider myself to be half the pitcher he was," Maddux said. "But I think I still have six or seven or 10 years left." 
Beginning in 1967, a winner in each league was selected. Since then, Roger Clemens in 1986-87, Jim Palmer and Denny McLain have been repeat winners in the AL. 
The only other pitcher to win the award for different teams was Gaylord Perry-in 1972 with Cleveland and 1978 with San Diego. 
Maddux, 27, is the top winner in the majors in the last six sea­sons with 107 victories. He has won three straight Gold Gloves and has been one of the best­hitting pitchers in baseball. He also is a good baserunner, as he showed this season when he dodged Pittsburgh catcher Don Slaught to score a run. 
Maddux, just 7-8 a week 
before the All-Star break, won where I rank overall," Maddux said. 'Tm sure some day I'll think about those things." 

Maddux won his first start of the playoffs against Philadelphia, but lost Game 6 when the Phillies clinched the pennant. Maddux gave up five earned runs in 5 2-3 innings in that loss, although he was hit in the right leg by a line drive in the first inning and never got into a groove. 
"I still have a lot to accom­plish," Maddux said. "I still want to pitch in a World Series." 
Maddux finished with 119 points in the voting. Swift, who was 21-8 with a 2.82 ERA, got two first-place votes and was second with 61 points. 
Glavine, who won the Cy Young in 1991 and was runner­up in 1992, was 22-6 with a 
3.20 ERA. He got four first­place votes and had 49 points. 
"I tried not to get too caught up in the competition stuff because I don't want to be root­ing against my teammates," Maddux said. "But I think the fact that we're all competitive and try to outdo each other makes us each pitch better." 
Burkett, 22-7 with a 3.65 
ERA, got nine points. Jose Rijo 
of Cincinnati was fifth. 
When Maddux signed with 
the Braves, he joined a rotation 
that already included Glavine, 
John Smoltz and Steve Avery. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days PQ'SY <tl ~ptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 

(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 1-800-328-0206 
"JUST TO STII1 THINGS UP A BIT SEEMED A GRl::AT REWARD IN ITSELF!" -SALLUST, 53 B.C. 

LIVE AT SENIOR BAR THURSDAY, 4 NOVEMBEfi 1993 A.D. 
GAPING OOGLE" PRODUCTIONS 


~----------------------------------------~--.-----------------~--------~----------------------------------------------~ ---------------­
page 16 The Observer • BASKETBALL Thursday, November 4, 1993 
Trailblazers look to erase last year's disappointment 
Associated Press 
The Portland Trail Blazers, with Clyde Drexler healthy and reasonably happy and a new supporting cast of frontcourt players, are looking to erase the disap­pointment of last season when the NBA opens Friday night. 
Drexler put his contract differences aside until the end of the season to con­centrate on the team following a trou­bled year in which he missed 33 games because of hamstring and knee prob­lems. Drexler, coming off a season in which he was second to Michael Jordan in the 1992 MVP voting, averaged just 
19.9 points last season, his lowest since 1985-86. 
"He's just much stronger and he doesn't seem to have any effects at all from the problems he had last year," Portland coach Rick Adelman said. 
Drexler's health was a big factor in the Blazers' disappointing finish. The team won 51 regular-season games but, with Drexler below form, was eliminat­ed by San Antonio in the first round of the playoffs. In the previous three sea­sons, Portland advanced to the NBA Finals twice and the Western Conference finals three times. 
The Blazers open their season Friday night at Los Angeles against the Clippers, one of the maximum number of 13 NBA games on opening night. Only the Seattle SuperSonics, who start their season Saturday against the Lakers, aren't on Friday's schedule. 
In other openers. it's New York at Boston. Washington at Philadelphia, Indiana at Atlanta, Milwaukee at Cleveland, Orlando at Miami, Chicago at Charlotte, Minnesota at Detroit, New Jersey at Houston, Golden State at San Antonio. Dallas at Utah, Phoenix at the Lakers and Denver at Sacramento. 
Portland made two major deals in the 
.-----------------------------------------------, 

" 

domingo, 7 de Noviembre de 1993 
11:30 a.m. Lewis Hall Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Bruce Cecil, esc 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
offseason. The Blazers sent disgruntled center Kevin Duckworth to the Washington Bullets for forward Harvey Grant, then traded swingman Mario Elie to Houston to open a salary slot that allowed them to sign free agent center Chris Dudley. 
The changes, along with Drexler's pre­season contract squabble, left veteran forward Buck Williams wondering whether management appreciates its veteran players. 

"I don't know where the other players stand, but I just don't feel too attached at this point," Williams said. 'Til go out and play as hard as I can and hopefully. at a given point in the season, things will turn around and I can feel that same family feeling I felt the first three years." 
Despite his concerns, Williams, the heart of the Blazers' defense, remains the team's starting power forward. 
"We have to have Buck Williams on 
\ 

'­
AP File Photo 
Buck Williams believes some of the Trailblazers off-season moves showed a general dis­regard for veteran players from the Portland franchise . 
this team," Adelman said. "Hopefully we've added some guys who are going to take some pressure off him over the course of a long season, but when it comes down to it, he's one of the guys you have to have on the floor." 
The departure of Duckworth and the arrival of Dudley, whose strengths are defense and rebounding, have the Blazers hoping to run more this season. 
"I think it's going to be more excit­ing," said Cliff Robinson, who last sea­son won the NBA Sixth Man award for his play off the bench at all three front­line positions. "We'll be able to get up and down the floor more and really defend, and get back to the type of things that we've done in the past." 
Dudley's weakness is on offense -in the preseason, he shot 28 percent from the field and 58 percent from the free­throw line -while Grant was obtained for his shooting ability. lie averaged 
18.2 points for the Bullets last season. 
"We can be a good shooting team at times, but it's not something that's going to be there night after night for us," Adelman said. "The defensive end, the ball movement and the player move­ment, that has to be tlHlre night after night." 
For the seventh straight year, Drexler and Terry Porter will be Portland's starting guards. Hod Strickland, who spent much of the surner working on his outside shot, will come off the bench in a three-guard rotation. 
The Clippers-Portland's opening night opponent -made few offseason changes, but it wasn't for lack of trying. 
A deal that would have sent unhappy All-Star Danny Manning to Miami for Glen Hice and Willie Burton fell through at the last minute. So the Clippers' nucleus of Manning, guards Hon Harper and Mark Jackson and center Stanley Roberts returns, although the team has a new coach in Bob Weiss. 
ARRIVE ALIVE ... DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE 

• I\.)1..) ) q I ~I \"" '"-• \ '-' I 1Z I l ) \ \\ I l 1..' \\ \ \ll \ I\ \ I I~_' \ \ \ I ) I Ill \ I IZI PIZ I "I \ I " 
~tl Esp..tf 
~ ~,1)_ 
~ 0 
~ Spanish Mas~ r-


PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL oN THURSDAY, NoVEMBER 4 FRIDAY, NoVEMBER 5 AND SATURDAY, NoVEMBER 6 $14-REsERVED SEATs . $1 a-STuDENTs AND SENioR CITizENs TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAfORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL: 631-8128 
t.. ~ ......... -.... ----... --. -.......... -·-·-···-...._...................~.:-··: -:::·--_-_.. ::::.._.... :::::.-_-...: ~:::.. .._-...,:: =:::----:::--:-----':'-: ------:---_----:--::-:-------:-----~ -:-----.---:-':; :-:-.-.-:-:-:-:-:-.-.-:-:-::-: ... . 
Thursday, November 4, 1993 The Observer· MEN''S SOCCER page 17 

including six shutouts. 

SPORTS BRIEFS
"We're getting better every
Soccer 

time we play," said Berticelli. DJris ·..·tr:t CJij~ . ockey continued from page 20 The Irish defense has turned ~!;' h~ld C)Jl Jll\!tsda~ folOV~ ~ their level of play up a notch 1()~~5 p.m., Sl1tlday ~ov. 7 ;It, eral contests in a short period 
during the last month, allowing l~I.~.P-U;3ll P•Ul·~ .J'~~J'SflY of time, Berticelli feels confi­only three opponents to score W9~., 11 at·10:45-11~4s p.n... dent that his team will stay in ten games in October. SWtday Nov~ 14at 9-lO:OOp.D.l•focused. Leading the defensive front will ~lea~~ bring $5. to first scriin,"' "They know they have to win be juniors Chris Dean, Dane ~iJ.ge. New J.U6fulx:i~ wei 
two games to make the Whitley, freshman Brian Call Rob at x1950 or Pet~· a NCAAs," said the coach. "We Engesser, and goalie Bert 27:3-5059 for more details. ;;:~.:. have to take it one game at a 
Bader, who now holds the .•• t.A....Mixe~;~~~b~~~ r,nn(~
time." record for career shutouts with ~er will ~· h~ld b'f! Mom;t&y.The Irish last joined the 25. Npvember 8, 9pm-11pm at tll.e group of 32 elite teams in the The Irish midfielders will E~k. Sign up in advance at the NCAA tournament in 1988. need to make a substantial con­R~c§ports' offi<w byul 2pm ·.p;ttThe team, coached by Dennis tribution as well, as much of ~pnday. Individual sign upsGrace, downed Saint Louis 2-0 the conference games were ollly; you will be paired with a to win the Midwestern won because of aggressive and p~!!ner. $1.~PO CC)~rt fee is Collegiate Conference tourna­physical play when going for ~;:~qutred; Call631-()JOO for 
ment, but lost to Southern loose balls. 

m.ore info. 
Methodist in the first round of "Our midfield hasn't been 

ATurkey Shoot will be held 
the NCAA tournament 2-0. scoring as much as we want it 
pn M.onda¥• ~.ovep:tber 14 ~nd
Berticelli last coached a team to, but we've been setting up 

'J_'{lesday.JY:gyem))er J5 fro~
in the tournament in 1989, our forwards," said Jason Fox. 4-J)mto 6pm~"co-Rec teams o 
when Old Dominion, under his "As long as we win, that's fine." · ~e.. ?ten and.·~· woll1en. It iscommand, took the Sun Belt 

O:p~~,,Jo .(l.Jl upd~rg'ri!.d il.DP
Conference title and a No. 19 Fox, juniors Jean Joseph and 

~!tate ~tuclents;'The shoot is
ranking to Wake Forest, where Kevin Adkisson, and senior 

s@~red pyNaval ROTC and the Demon Deacons downed captain Mike Palmer will hope Jt~eSports, Members of the the Monarchs 2-1. The Irish to keep the ball in the opposing 
· .rifle $qu!id are not eligi··have lost to Evansville in the end of the field to keep pres­
.. Sign U.p in advance at past two MCC tournaments. sure off Bader and the Irish 
RecSports by . November,Notre Dame will enter the defense. The job of scoring will 
N?yembetJ1•No experien~~
tournament having won seven rest on the shoulders of Lanza 

pe,t':essary. · · · 6100for of their last eight games, and Oates, as it has all season. more info. 

•••CONSIDERATIONS 
The Centenary of the death of Fr. Sorin 

Last Sunday, while little children all over America went trick or treating at carefully selected and supervised locations, here at Notre Dame we celebrated the centenary of the death of Father Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., the founder of the University of Notre Dame and the second Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. On the occasion of this special anniversary, Fr. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Executive Vice President of the University, offered a powerful presentation of the vision 
and challenge of Fr. Sorin to the community gathered for Eucharist in 
the Basilica of the Sacred Heart ofJesus, exactly one hundred years after 
the Patriarch's death. 
Fr. Sorin came from France to America as a young man. His hope was to offer faith and service to a struggling new world. Accompanied by five young Holy Cross brothers, he carried the charge to start a school in the prairie and to preach about the goodness of life when it is centered on the truth and values ofJesus Christ. Fr. Sarin's special personal devotion was to Mary, the Mother ofJesus. In his sermon Fr. Beauchamp reminded the worshippers of the picture of young Fr. Sorin and the five Brothers arriving at the shore of the lake and he quoted from Sarin's reflections about that moment. "The first arrival on the spot now called by the blessed name of Notre Dame duLac, however severe upon human delicacy, made on the newcomers an impression which time would never obliterate, a deep and unspotted covering of snow was then spread over land and water and forcibly brought to their minds the spotless Virgin, who seemed already to take possession of these premises, and to claim the homage, not alone of the site itself but also of every human soul that should ever breathe upon it. At that moment, one most memorable to me, a special consecration was made to the Blessed Mother ofJesus, not only of the Institution that was to be founded there. A humble offering was presented to her of its modest origin and its destiny, of its future trials and labors, its successes and its joys." 
Dedicated to its founding vision, the school slowly prospered, with more students and faculty, more land and new buildings. Years later in his old age, Sorin would be challenged again when he witnessed his school nearly burnt to the ground in 1879. Summoning the community to greater courage and commitment, the elderly Sorin again led the school for ages to come, a monument to Catholicity. One thing is necessary. We must lay down deep in our hearts the foundations of a new spiritual structure. In other words, we must humble ourselves before God for He gives grace only to the humble. The magnitude of our undertaking without anything like adequate means forces upon us a plain acknowledgement of our complete dependence upon God's mercy, without which would simply be folly to !look for any ultimate success." 
Father Beauchamp reminded last Sunday's community that "We who follow in the footsteps of Father Sorin and the holy Cross Brothers who arrived upon these hallowed grounds over 150 years ago, hold in trust his dream, his commitment, his dedication, his faith." This modem day administrator echoed the words of the founder when he prayed "that we will never allow our pride or our successes to prevent us from recognizing our total dependence upon God for all that we are and all that we hope to be." Throughout the month of November, the Church invites us to draw deeply from the spiritual richness of our past, to remember the dead, and to be united with the great men and women who have gone before us, having lived and died in the service of faith. At Notre Dame such practice is our custom, and perhaps the only guarantee of the blessing of our future. 
Tom McDermott,C.S.C. 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. November 6  5:00p.m.  Rev. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C.  
Sun. November 7  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Jerome Neyrey, S.J.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C.,  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
in a new act of faith, rebuilding what had been destroyed and topping 
1sT READING Wisdom 6: 12--16 
the Main Building with a statue of the Blessed Mother, "so everyone will 
·­

2ND READING 1 Thessalonians 4: 13--18
know why we have succeeded." In writing about this new construction, he said,"We must bring upon these new foundations the richest blessings 
GosPEL Matthew 25: 1--13 
of heaven, that the grand edifice we contemplate erecting, may remain 
page 18 The Observer· COLLEGE FOOTBALL Thursday, November 4, 1993 
Auburn's Daniel leads nation despite helium accusation 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Ala. 
Despite leading the nation, Auburn's Terry Daniel was as obscure as most punters. Then along came Jackie Sherrill. 
"Everywhere I go, they say, 'Hey Helium, how you doing?' and 'What's up Helium?'" Daniel said with a grin. "Even at our last game against Arkansas ... coach (Danny) Ford came up and said, 'Let me see that ball. Let me check it out."' 
Daniel, who grew up in the small east Alabama town of Valley, is reveling in all the attention he has received since word broke last week that Sherrill, the Mississippi State coach, accused Auburn of pumping helium into its footballs. 
Later, Sherrill denied that he thought Daniel was using the lighter-than-air gas when he punted twice for a 56.5­yard average in State's Oct. 9 loss to the No. 8 Tigers. Sherrill did concede that he asked for an investigation. 
The balls were confiscated and sent to the Southeastern Conference office. The verdict: Daniel has used nothing but air to lead the nation with a 48.3-yard aver­age. 
"It was kind of a compliment," he said. "It was like, 'He's got to be doing something with those balls to kick like that."' 
Since then, newspapers around the country have conducted their own tests to determine if helium balls travel far­ther than those filled with just plain old air. Sports Illustrated even came to cam­pus to conduct its own tongue-in-cheek experiment with Daniel and an Auburn physicist. 
''I've enjoyed it," Daniel said. "I would like to thank Jackie Sherrill for making the accusation. He's kind of made me real popular overnight." 
For SI, Daniel punted two balls -one filled with helium, the other loaded with air -1 0 times each. The helium ball had an average distance of 57.7 yards with a hang time of 4.66 seconds; the air ball went an average of 59.8 yards with a hang time of 4.93 seconds. 
"Giving Jackie his best case-that the 

initial velocity of the ball is inversely 
proportional to its weight -helium 
would still be detrimental to the trajec­
tory, because lighter objects, even trav­
eling at the same speed as heavier 
objects, are more susceptible to the 
opposing forces of wind resistance," 
physicist Stephen Knowlton told the 
magazine. 

"The helium was heavier than air," ·Daniel said. "That ball felt like it had 
water in it. It would go up in the air and 
just die." 

Daniel's success can probably be 
traced to his family tree. His grandfa­
ther was a punter. So was his father, 
who earned all-state honors at a 
Georgia high school. At 6-foot-1, 230 
pounds, Daniel certainly has the size to 
boot the ball a long way. 

"I think it's all hereditary," he said. "I 
remember when I was 8 years old, I 
entered this punt, pass and kick contest 
back in Valley. I won it because I was 
able to punt the ball 31 yards. I think I 
kicked it off the tee 10 yards and I threw 
it only 11 yards." 

Daniel walked on at Alabama but 
never got a chance to play. So he trans­ferred to Auburn, where he came out of nowhere last season to win the punting job and wound up 17th in the nation with a 42.6-yard average. 
This season, he has been even longer. Daniel can recall only two bad punts ­one for 35 yards, the other for 37 -in a game against Vanderbilt when he was ill. 
"I had been sick all night the night before and all during the day before the game," he recalled. "I just had this weak feeling. The field was damp and wet and I think all those factors just caused a mental block." 
Daniel has an outside shot to break Heggie Roby's record for best punting average in a season. Roby, now with the Washington Redskins, averaged 49.8 yards for Iowa in 1981. 
With three games remaining, and fig­uring he will punt about 15 more times, Daniel would need to average around 
53.7 yards to break Roby's record. 
If he doesn't get it this year, there's always 1994 -if Daniel decides to return for his senior season. 
Florida St. reeling from injuries in final month 

This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports
By BRENT KALLESTAD ranked Florida State finds itself tailback Marquette Smith and reeling from injuries. punter Sean Liss. Several other What's going on!! Quarterback Charlie Ward's players remain questionable. 
Associated Press 

TALLAIIASSEE  sore  ribs  make  his  status  "We'll go into this ballgame  Friday  11/5  
Heading into a brutal finish­ uncertain  for  Saturday  at  in probably the worst shape  Home Finale!  
ing month with two Top 10 teams still on the schedule, top- Maryland, and the Seminoles already know they'll be without  we've been in all year," coach Bobby Bowden said Wednesday. "We have a bunch  Women's Volleyball vs. Loyola  
of beat-up boys right now."  7:00pm 



However, Bowden received 

JACC Arena 
some good news. Junior line­

11 Subway Sub 
Take to Ice...
backer Derrick Brooks was cleared to play against 
Notre Dame Hockey

draw;n~t
Maryland although coaches 
vs. Michigan State 
don't plan to let Brooks hit dur­
7:00pm
ing practice. Brooks has not played since injuring his neck 
JACC Fieldhouse 
Oct. 9 against Miami. But the growing injury list 

Thursday 11 /4 -Monday 11 /8 
61
clearly was on Bowden's mind 

Men's Tennis hosts Rolex Regionals v-
Wednesday with No. 2 Notre 
1 

AII Day Eck Pavilion
Dame just 10 days away and 
No. 9 Florida on tap Nov. 27. 

INTERESTED IN PLANNING 
SENIOR MONTH/ SENIOR WEEK? 
THERE WILL BE AN 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8TH AT 6 P.M. IN THE FOSTER ROOM 
ANY QUESTIONS, CALL JULIE AT 282-2965 
Photo Courtesy of Florida State Sports Info 
Charlie Ward heads the list of injuries for Florida State as they enter 
the toughest part of their schedule. 
~e,ss in Sollti] e'Q li 
'Q.; ~~ 
~ +e.+.Avllmtt 
P­
A Survev of Datina Couoles 
If you are currently in a dating relationship, we are interested in your views about yourself, your partner and the relationship. We would like to send you a survey to complete at your convenience. As a way of thanking you for your help, we will enter your name in a lottery to win one of many exciting prizes, including CASH! 
Please call us at 631,8791 for information or to sign up. We thank you for your help. 
(Prizes: cash prizes, dinner for 2 at Nick's Patio, General Cinema movie passes, Bonnie Doon's ice cream) 

_.. 
Relationships research project Department of Psychology University of Notre Dame 

L_ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________. 

Thursday, November 4, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 19 


SPELUNKER 
WN, JGN, Dlt> '/00 REA{) nt15 ARTIC.U: ABDul~ 
Gi;NE;nc.. Rf5E.ARCH WNG-1 IXINf Hf:R(; ON CAM~!;' 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l)J.I .. I-11 Tt<•s
1 

!-; (\JAT(.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Bad drainage areas 5 Edmond O'Brien film: 
1949 
a Centerfold sight 14 Cutting out 16 Part of a car's 
steering system 11 Wilde kind of 
dialogue 18 Went for it 19 Dichotomies 21 Stereo 
collection 22 Great northern diver 23Roman magistrate 25 Take stock 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.:-:+:,.:+.;::.+=-i 15 Oxygenized 32 Spiller's word sugar 34 Not too much 20 Garden digger 37 Checks 
IF ~~u't> /...11<.E. To Go Our [JJ 1.,.,.. mE TofVIoRR.oW 
NtuH,.. 7 .. 
28 Dating services, e.g. 29Cordwood 
measure 30 Capers 31 Ref's ring ruling 33 Toe's 
forerunner 34--out (rations) 35 Aunt of 
Dionysus 36 N.Y. C. line 37 Part of the 
ambience 3B·Hawk's sudden move 40 Movable wing 
section 42 Sullies 43 Put on a finish 
44 Bull or stallion, e.g. 45 Malawi's first president 46 Basic 
51 Mount Desert Island national park 
53 Telescopic part 
54 Irritating 
55 Cake, ice cream, etc. 56 Bottom-of-the­barrel 57 Graphic creation 58 Petty scrap 
DOWN 
1 Wade across 2 Grounded bird 3 Basketry palm 4 He can put you 
off 5 Marks of lazy listers 
, 
.. 
.. 
6--amil/ion 7 "African Queen" 
screenwriter a Some aves. 9 Nervous noises 
10 Give soda its pop 11 Relativeness 12 Quilter's tie 13 Greek W.W. II resistance gp. 
JAY HOSLER 
'/6AH. APffiRE:N11-V IT v.lfr.:> EASY ON Cf 1'\-lBY fOol-! D SOM& OF l1+G' AUJMI-11 'THAT 
PAID .$1000 fOR A flllRIDil SIA1t 'TlCKET. 
BILL WATTERSON 
'TUM Wf>S O'a~IOIJSL'l SCM£. sri<,\ OF CC*<\M'i:.l{T~Ri. 

DAVE KELLETT 
{.JEL.L.fHA'!" (})E. NT ClCCEE.D INC,<-"\ {JJEI..L ... 
I 

24 Ebro and Orinoco 25 Piedmontese wine center 26 Yellow-flowered shrub 27 Modular parlor pieces 
28 Scaler's spike 
30 Solve a jumble 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

38 Orchid extracts 45 Unkind cut 39 Cookout fare 
47 Yeats's swan lady41 Sonny boy 48 U. of Md. ath. 
42 Least offensive 49 Courthouse 
44 Founder of the records Rothschild 50 For fear that dynasty 52 Rep. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

lver Get APol Smoshed! 
SPORTS 

page 20 Thursday, November 4, 1993 
NCAA tournament bid on the line for men's soccer 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
It's do or die time for the Irish. 
The No. 22 Notre Dame men's soccer team cannot afford to look back now, as they begin their run for the national cham­pionship. The 13-5 Irish will vie for an NCAA tournament bid this weekend when they put their 5-1 Midwestern Collegiate Conference record and season championship on the line at the MCC tournament this weekend in Indianapolis, IN. 
"Every game is like an NCAA tournament game," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli, who collected his third consecutive ten-win season this year as coach of Notre Dame. "If we lose, our season's over. We have to win every game." 
The Irish captured its first conference championship with a win over LaSalle last Sunday. Junior Tim Oates cashed in on two scoring opportunities, and assisted on a goal by sopho­more Bill Lanza. The final goal of the game came halfway through the second half. when junior Keith Carlson booted in a rebound off Explorer goalie Tom Gallagher to give Notre Dame the 4-0 vietory. 
With his five point perfor­
mance Sunday, Oates climbed into the career scoring list. The junior now holds 15th place with 60 career points. Lanza needs just six more points to achieve this feat. The sopho­more currently has 34 points to lead the Irish. 
With its conference champi­onship, Notre Dame will enjoy a bye in the first round of the tournament. The Irish will face the winner of the Xavier-Butler contest, the two teams in the conference that gave them the most trouble. 
''I'm hoping Butler wins," said midfielder Jason Fox, who is one of four Notre Dame players to start in all 18 games so far this season. "We have so much to play for against them." 
The Bulldogs handed the Irish a 4-2 loss in Notre Dame's home opener on September 10. Notre Dame played possibly its worst game of the season after defeating No. 20 Rutgers and winning the Met-Life Classic a week before. 
The Irish played at Xavier on October 8. The Irish were a lit­tle !lat. but they still outshot the Muskateers 15-10 in their 1-0 victory. Bill Lanza scored the game-winner with 6:28 to play in the first half and goalie Bert Bader had five saves in the shutout victory. 
fourth stra1ght year. They are the only team able to cla1m th1s feat. 
Autograph Contract Shaquille O'Neal signs a five year contract with Score Board for his auto­graph.. 
see page 13 
The ObserverfT. J. Harris 

Jean Joseph and the Irish hope to break free from the rest of the MCC and earn a bid to the NCAA tourna­
ment. The Irish are currently ranked number 22 in the country. 
Detroit Mercy has surprised a lot of people this year. The Titans will enter the tourna­ment with a 4-1-1 conference record and a No. 2 seeding. They will face off against LaSalle, the lowest seed, to kick off tournament action today. The Irish defeated Detroit Mercy 3-1 on September 14 in 

Irish rugby club talking as if this year is their year 
' 

.. 
... 
;..• .. ~: ·"' ' 
>""'.'1""""'•'""'"'''·..··­
.. ' '~ .. >• ·.,, ·'~~~~\~~ · -;&.~: 
_,.. 
. . :ne Observer/~ean Farnan The Notre_ Dame Rugby Club has made the f111al 16 t~ams. 1n the Midwest Reg1on for the 
Inside SPORTS 

Portland Trailblazers With a healthy Clyde Drexler, Portland looks forward to the season. 
see page 16 Detroit. 

The third quarterfinal game will feature No. 3 Evansville, who has had a rather disap­pointing year, and No.6 Loyola of Chicago. Both teams trav­elled to Alumni Field earlier this year and left with the same result. Loyola of Chicago fell to the Irish 7-0 three weeks ago, 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 

The members of the team are talking about this year as their year. Although they might sound a lit­tle like some other Irish athletes. the members of the Notre Dame Rugby Club are in a class all by themselves. 
After a highly successful fall break, the Irish head into the round of 16 of the Midwest Finals for the fourth straight year this weekend. Notre Dame is the only team in the Midwest that can claim this record. 
"The finals in the Midwest are always competi­tive," said Rugby club president Mike McGowan. "We're glad to be there, but we're not happy yet." 
Last weekend, the Irish hosted the first round of the Midwest Tournament and started with a 29-5 romp over Bowling Green in the first game. Dan Drew, Marty Boscarino, Jim Ludwig and Matt Reintjes all scored tries for the Irish while Pat Blandford scored three points on a rare drop kick goal in the win. Bowling Green, traditionally one of the better teams in the Midwest, has become a big Irish rival in recent years. 
Wisconsin-Steven's Point was the next victim of the rejuvenated Irish last weekend. In the champi­onship game, the Irish jumped to a 27-0 halftime lead with tries from Reintjes, Matt Meko, and Blandford. Jamie Hill added points with two penal­ty kicks. WSP came on strong in the second half cutting the deficit to 27-24, but the Irish held on for the victory. 
The win propelled the Irish into the round of 16 in the nationwide tournament and earned the team a berth in the next round at Bowling Green State this weekend. Notre Dame plays the winner of the Penn State-Miami of Oh~o game on Satur~ay for a chance to meet the wmner of the OhiO State­Wisconsion-Madison game in the championships on Sunday. If the Irish win both games, they will 
advance to the Final Four in the Spring. Also over break. the current Irish team defeated the former players in the annual Alumni game. 

while Evansville played tough against an inspired Irish squad, only to allow a Tont Hiehardson shot to blast through the Purple Ace defensive front, giving Notre Dame a 1-0 victory. 
Despite the tournament for­mat, in which a team plays sev­
see SOCCER I page 17 
SMC volleyball at Manchester 
By MARY GOOD Saint Mary's Spons Ediror 
As the Saint Mary's volley­
ball team nears the end of 
their season, they are looking 
to stretch their six game win­
ning streak to seven tonight at 
Manchester College. 
The Belles' recent wins have 
been a result of the team's 
pulling together and also the 
extremely good movement 
they have achieved through 
strong practices, coach Julie 
Schroeder-Biek said. 
The team began to grow 
sluggish defensively mid-sea­
son and consequently have 
been working hard and have 
improved greatly on defense. 
Last night the Belles switched 
their focus in practice to their 
middle offense. 
"More timing is involved in 
the middle offense," 
Schroeder-Biek said. "And we 
worked hard on that." 
After their Oetober break tri­
umphs in Philadelphia, the 
team has learned to play to 
always be anticipating, the 
Belles' coach said. 
Saint Mary's is anticipating a 
tough game tonight. The 
Belles haven't played 
Manchester for four or five 
years and know little about 
them so they are not sure what 
to expect. 
"These kinds of games are 
good because they require us 
to go in and play the best game 
we can," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Florida State The Seminoles face many injuries including Charlie Ward as they prepare for the hardest part of their schedule. see page 18 






