

Friday, September 17, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.15 THE IN DE PEN DENT NEW~ PAPr R 5[· RVI NG NOTRE DAME AND SAl NT fv\AR\t"S 
Dalloway's prepares for 
•

reopening 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Although Clarissa Dalloway's coffeehouse will not be opening its doors until Sept. 29th, efforts are already underway to ensure its success this year. 
Originally known as the Saint Mary's Clubhouse, Dalloway's' has been open since November 1991. 
"It's something totally differ­ent on the Saint Mary's cam­pus. Even at Notre Dame, you can't find an atmosphere like this," said Dalloway's co-direc­tor, Kelly Hartman. 
As a result of the unique at­mosphere, student support for Dalloway's grew last year. Saint Mary's student body president Mary Beth Wilkinson also pledged her support for the coffeehouse during her election campaign last year. 
According to Wilkinson, she had ideally wanted Dalloway's hours extended into afternoons but she was unaware of Mariott's new service plans at the time of the campaign. This Mariott plan, known as the Carte Blanche Program, ex­tended Saint Mary's dining hall hours from 7a.m. to 7p.m. 
But at the first Board of Governance (B.O.G.) meeting this week, $4000 was allotted to Dalloway's. 
"Financially, we will help support Dalloway's and student government may help with 
see DALLOWAY'S I page 4 

Georgia issues appeal to Yeltsin 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press Writer 
TBILISI, Georgia 
Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze sent an emo­tional appeal to Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Thursday as rebel tanks punched through Georgian defenses and entered a major regional capital. 
"We don't have anything to defend ourselves with," Shevardnadze said in a telegram sent before he flew to Sukhumi, the besieged capi­tal of the separatist Abkhazian region. 
"I can do nothing else but ... try to defend the city with naked hands together with its unarmed people," said the Georgian leader. He also con­ferred with Yeltsin by tele­phone, said Yeltsin's office. 
The Russian Interfax later reported that Russian com­manders had ordered Russian troops stationed in Georgia to stop the Abkhazian advance and restore a July 27 cease­fire that had been brokered by Moscow. Attempts to reach officials for confirmation and details were not successful. 
At least five civilians report­edly were killed in the fighting as Abkhazian tanks entered Sukhumi. Fifteen Georgian soldiers were killed and 81 wounded, Georgian officials said. 
Georgian television reported 
that an artillery shell hit a 
building near the site of a 
Shevardnadze meeting. He 
was not injured. 
The attack on Sukhumi 
broke a six-week-old cease-


MICHIGAN STATE 
WEEKEND 
®r~o/~ 
FRIDAY 
4:30 p.m. Marching band rehearsal. Administration Building steps 
6:45 p.m. Band step-off for pep rally, Band Building 
7:00 p.m. Pep rally, Joyce Athletic &Convocation Center 

SATURDAY 
9:00 a.m. NO alumni lacrosse game, Moose Krause Field 9:00a.m. NO, SMC, HCC Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC 
9:00 a.m. Tailgate party and grill, Morris Inn Patio 
9:30 a.m. AA meeting, Center tor Social Concerns 
10:30 a.m. Glee club concert, JACC North Dome 
11 :00 a.m. Porn pon squad and cheerleading performance. Bookstore 
11:00 
a.m. Shenanigan's performance, JACC North Dome 

11:00 
a.m. Band concert. Administration Building steps 


11 :30 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Crypt 
11:45 a.m. Band step-off. Administration Building 
12:35 p.m. Football game kickoff, Notre Dame Stadium after game NO, SMC, HCC all-class reunion, JACC North Dome 
6:45 p.m. Rosary devotions. Grotto behind Sacred Heart 

SUNDAY 
6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30, 11:30 a.m. Mass. Crypt Parish Church 8:00, 10:00, 11 :45 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Basilica 
10:00 a.m. Mass, St. Joseph's Chapel, Holy Cross College 7:15p.m. Sunday Vespers, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Georgia torn by rebell on two fronts 

OSSET/A 
Separatists launched a major offensive today in Georgia's Abkhazia region, while Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze was trying to stop a rebellion in another corner of the former Soviet republic. Abkhazian tanks enter Sukhumi alter capturing several coastal towns to the south. 
ABKHAZIA SOUTH
I -. 

Chiatural~:. -1···~..." 
. •···· ,,,• t..._..•••·r·.:::: ....
I ;:
, . ·~~...,. Kutaisi -·*':~~' ··...,,,.,.u.,.,._,,.,,,Tbilisi 
,, Q: GEORGIA 
Wednesday, rebels led by Lotti Kobaha, loyal to ousted Pres. Gamsakhurdia, cut the last major link between Tbilisi and Georgian ports on the Black Sea. 

frre and presented yet another crisis for Shevardnadze, who earlier this week forced parliament to grant him emer­gency powers by threatening to resign. 
Shevardnadze also is faced with an unrelated rebellion in another corner of the former Soviet republic. Armed with his new emergency powers, he flew Wednesday to the west­ern province of Mingrelia to try to end the rebellion by the supporters of former President Zviad Gamsakhurdia. 
Abkhazian separatists apparently hoped to take ad­vantage of the turmoil by at­tacking while Shevardnadze's back was turned. The offen­sive violated the 27 cease-fire brokered by Russia and moni­tored by Russian and U.N. 

~AZERBAIJAN 
ARMENIA 
.. !50miles 
..:.....,;__._ . c-:--1E23 
observers. 
Under the cease-fire agree­ment, Georgia began with­drawing its troops from Abkhazia on Aug. 15. Georgian officials said 80 per­cent of the weaponry and sol­diers has been withdrawn. 
The cease-fire and troop pullout had brought relative calm to Abkhazia, a former resort region along the Black Sea, after a year of fighting that claimed more than 2,000 Jives. 
Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev went to Georgia on Thursday to meet with the Abkhazian separatists, and was to meet with Shevardnadze on Friday, Russian media reported. 




General Sherman had close ties to Notre Dame 
By TONY POTTINGER 
News Writer 
General William Tecumseh Sherman, a controversial figure in American history, was the subject of the 1993 McAvoy Lecture last night given by Mississippi State Professor John Marszalek. 
Marszalek spoke on his book "Sherman: A Soldier's Passion for Order." Marszalek, whore­ceived his graduate degree in history from Notre Dame in 1965, began his presentation with an examination of the Civil War general's close ties to Notre Dame. 
A correspondent with Father Sorin, Sherman received a 25­year scholarship to the University to use for his sons. Both of his sons attended the then-elementary school at Notre Dame, and his two daughters were students at Saint Mary's College. His infant son died in South Bend and was briefly buried in the Notre Dame cemetery. He was later moved to a family cemetery. 
The popular view of Sherman is that of "a callous arsonist who torched his way across the South" during his "March to the Sea," according to Marszalek. 
In fact, he is still today held in contempt as a criminal by many people whose ancestors fought against Sherman. 
Marszalek presented the deeper, lesser-known facets of Sherman's true personality. He contends that "Sherman never ordered or caused the complete destruction of Atlanta," a myth supported in popular history by films such as "Gone With The Wind." Marszalek believes that Sherman has been unjustly vili­fied in history and that not enough credit has been given to him for his actions on the South's behalf. 
Sherman spent much of his youth in the South and held strong admiration for the South. In the opening days of the war Sherman was even considered for a command po­sition in the Confederate army . While he did not hesitate to level entire southern villages for harboring rebel guerillas, he believed in what he termed "a soft peace." Sherman hoped only for the restoration of the Union and a healing peace, ac­cording to Marszalek. 
In fact, Sherman was accused by Washington of being a trai­
see SHERMAN I page 4 
Deane: Irish works show dis con tin ui ty 
By KATE CRISHAM News Writer 
The ever-present political strife, the Great Famine, and the continuing hemorrhage of emigration out of Ireland have all contributed to Ireland's unique sense of culture, according to Seamus Deane, Notre Dame's Keough Professor of Irish Studies. 
Deane, considered by many to be the foremost contributor of research of Irish life, lec­tured on the "Field Day Anthology of Irish Literature" last night in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
The anthology, which most critics acknowledge as the most important Irish publica­tion in the past half-century, spans over one thousand years of Irish literature. Deane edit­ed the anthology as a member of the Field Day group, an organization devoted to pro­ducing cultural and political plays, pamphlets, and books. 
Publishing a commercial suc­cess was not the Field Day's objective, said Deane. "We wanted to encompass more than a thousand years of litera­ture written in Gaelic, English, Latin, and even French." 
Deane stressed that the anthology is primarily a politi­cal literary work. He pointed out that the Irish culture, span­ning 1,500 years, has wit­nessed the death of nine civi­lizations, the death of a Ian-
see DEANE I page 4 

Transpo to 
add more 
mall service 
BySUzyFRY News Writer 
Starting this Saturday, the Transpo bus service from the Notre Dame library circle to the University Park Mall will be increasing its shuttles from once an hour to three times an hour due to increased demand from the Notre Dame student body. 
According to Mike Nolen, manager of transportation for Transpo, the aim of the addi­tional shuttles "is to provide a safe, more comfortable oppor­tunity for students to go beyond the Notre Dame community o services." In the past, friction between South Bend residents and Notre Dame students de­terred many students from us­ing Transpo's services to go off-campus. 
"I will definitely feel safer knowing that the motivation for this is to provide people like me a secure way to go to the mall," said Julie Becker, a Farley Hall ·unior. 
see TRANSPO I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 17, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 





ND football: Kooky fun for everybody 

Woop! Woop! Woop! Woop! 
What is that noise? And for that matter, what are all of those strange things that the Notre Dame stu­dent body does during foot­ball season? 
We spend $81 on tickets and much, much more on the peripherals to enjoy an athletic tradition that surpasses all others (yes, 

I'm a biased Domer). But what are we doing? That's what one bored ad exec and anyone from outside of the University would ask. 
. As student~ we know we're just having a good lime supportmg a great team. But we still gotta wonder about the things we do. We get up as early as 8 a.m.-assuming we ever went to bed-to begin the day's events. Trying to get that nightcap off our heads we start the day where we left off and head out to red, white, green or whatever field to meet friends, alumni and anyone else who's having a tailgater. 
When we do make it to the game, along with the other 59,074 people, we are rewarded with the glory of Notre Dame football. 
We should all slap the sign that says "Play like a champion today," because every one of us works hard throughout the game. We don't take the hard hits in the stands, but it is a bit of an athletic accomplishment to stand for over three hours in one square foot of space... especially after a hard morning workout. 
This bonding in the stands really brings us closer as a student body, which leads me to another quirk. What makes over half of the stu­dent body take off for Michigan to follow our team? There are quite a few reasons I'm sure but it all revolves around the spirit of Notr~ Dame. Let's reflect on something a bit more kooky ... 
What is that Woop cheer? Everybody loves it, but what is it? Or how about that "yeah yeah yeah yeah" thing we do with the cheerleaders? I don't know about you, but my hair still stands on the back of my neck during our cheers. Especially "We ... are... N ... D!" Of course, if the freshmen could remember their part it might work a little better. But I digress. 
When the band plays the Imperial March from Star Wars we all start this kind of alligator clap. That looks cool, but I was just informed that it us~d to ~e a fist to ?and thing, instead of a clap. I kmda hke that. It s got more power behind it. Lou goes without saying. But what really shows class, respect, and pride is the fact that nearly everyone does, as they should do, stay through the end of the game. We sing the alma mater, the fight song, the Lou song, and cheer the team as they salute the student body. 
Watch out this week, because there's a new quirk coming from the band. They have this new song called ShamRock, so we'll be doing something new and kooky tomorrow! 
You gotta love this place. Wait, that's it! That's why we follow these ritual Saturdays in the fall. That's why we do kooky cheers. We all love good old Notre Dame! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
Laura Ferguson Cheryl Moser Katie Murphy Allison Ebel John Lucas Beth Swiney Spons Vivian Gembara Brian Kubicki Accent Viewpoint Elisabeth Heard Guy Loranger Bevin Kovalik Lab Tech Graphics Kyle Kusek Brendan Regan 
The Obsrrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday cxcq>t during = and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the As.ociated Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
John Potter Advenising Executive 

Hoosiers open to trade treaty 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 

President Clinton has the votes of only three Hoosiers in Congress for the North American Free Trade Agreement so far. but five House members from Indiana are at least willing to hear him out. 
Four House members -all of them Democrats -oppose the Clinton­backed proposal to lift trade barriers between the United States, Mexico and Canada, an Associated Press survey of Indiana's 10 representatives and two senators shows. 
Rep. Lee Hamilton is the only Indiana Democrat who has announced support for the treaty. Sens. Richard Lugar and Dan Coats, both staunch backers of NAFTA are Republicans. ' 


Two of the five uncommitted House members ­Dem?crat R~ps. Phil Sharp and Jill Long -say they are l~amng ~gamst N_AFTA but will not finalize their posi­tions until after Clmton submits the bill to Congress. 
"There's the potential for job loss in the United States and Congresswoman Long has some concerns about deal­ing with a country like Mexico, because it's not a full democracy," said David Early, Long's press secretary. 
Winning over uncommitted House members such as Sharp, Long and Republicans Stephen Buyer, Dan Burton an~ John Myers is cruc!al for Clinton to get Congress to ratify NAFTA. Uncommitted congressional delegates are the targe~ of_ heavy lobbying by organized labor, which launched Its mtense grassroots campaign against NAFTA during Congress' August recess. 
Wal-Mart store 
sera rotests 
BOSTON 

Wal-Mart Stores Inc. canceled plans Thursday to build a depart!llent store in a Boston suburb, citing opposition from residents. 
More than 4,000 of Westford's 16,400 residents had signed petitions opposing the store, mirroring resistance Wal-Mart has seen in other towns and cities as it expands in the Northeast. 
"The little guy won and the town won," said Don Paul, owner of the Shoe Tree in Westford. "It's great news for the small businesses in the area, and it's great news for the people of Westford for sticking together against it. 
The giant retail chain founded by Sam Walton, which has 1,954 stores nationwide, has faced similar opposition in _only a ~andful of towns, Wal-Mart spokesman Don Shmkle said from the company's Bentonville, Ark., head­quarters. 
Call of nature, or call of the wild? 
. WASHINGTON, Pa. Pohce thought a prankster was calling when they got a report of a python in a toilet. 
"If it's a weird animal call, we're going to get it," said Lt. Roger Blyth. "In the last two years, we've had a chick­en, a peacock, two Vietnamese pigs and a silver fox." 
Lin~a Ketter, 24, found _the 30-inch snake Wednesday mormng. At first, the bnght colors in the toilet bowl made her think a necktie had fallen in. Then the snake moved. "Talk about a rude awakening," she said. 
Police dispatched four officers. Blyth removed the green-spotted python with a clothes hanger and boxed it. Four people claimed ownership of the nonpoisonous snake later Wednesday at the Wet Pets store in nearby McMurray. 
Mi~s Ketter, w~o has ~ived in her home with her daugh­ter smce July, said a nmghbor told her the previous occu­pant collected snakes. She said she believes the snake was livi~g in the bathroom pipes, and she unwittingly brought It out recently by pouring drain cleaner into the 
tub. 
INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, Sept. 16 
Accu· Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

''''...~' ...·... ·:·.;::·.:::· -:.-::.-:.. .
·AA.~···(f~~
Showt1rs T·slonns Rain Flurries SnoW lct1 Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vlii-1«/PreSIG~ 01993A<cu·W88111ot'.lnc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 16. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ 
H L a· &'SJ ITII 0 ~ §I~ {) ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T .STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
TEMPERATURES  Chicago Cleveland  59 63  51 56  Minneapolis Moscow  64 43  46 43  
Dallas  79  53  New York  61  56  
City  H  L  Jerusalem  91  72  Paris  64  52  
AUanla  67  73  London  59  45  Philadelphia  66  62  
Boston  56  56  Los Angeles  72  63  Rome  75  57  
Calro  95  73  Madrid  79  57  Sea111e  73  51  

E~4MY NOMINEES 
NETWORK TOTALS 
CBS 92  NBC 80  ABC 55  HBO 55  PBS 30  
DRAMA  
SERIES  

"Homefront" ABC "I'll Fly Away" NBC "Law & Order" NBC "Northern Exposure" CBS "Picket Fences" CBS 
LEAD ACTOR 
Sam Waterston 
"I'll Fly Away• NBC 
Michael Moriarty 
"Law & Order• NBC 
Rob Morrow 
"Northern Exposure• CBS 
Tom Skerrltt 
"Picket Fences' NBC 
Scott Bakula 
"Quantum Leap• NBC 
LEAD ACTRESS 
Regina Taylor 
'I'll Fly Away' NBC 
Angela Lansbury 
"Murder, She Wrote' CBS 
Janlne Turner 
"Northern Exposure' CBS 
Kathy Baker 
"Picket Fences' CBS 
Swoozle Kurtz 
'Sisters' NBC 
Source: Academy of Television Arts & Sciences AP/Marco Doelling. staff 
Indians push Brazil to demarcate lands 
BRASILIA 
Dozens of Indian chiefs appealed to Brazil's Congress on Thursday to demarcate indigenous land claims before the constitution is revised later this year. 
The chi~fs rear lawmakers will cut or change parts of the constitutiOn that guarantee Indian claims to tribal lands. Indian lands in Brazil often are invaded by whites who are after natural resources, including gold. 
The current constitution sets an Oct. 5 deadline for set­tling the boundaries of Indian lands, but the work has not been finished. 
Justice Minister Mauricio Correa told reporters after meeting with 14 tribal chiefs that the government would be unable to demarcate all Indian land claims before the deadline because it does not have enough money and personnel. 
But Rep. Inocencio Oliveira, the House leader, assured the Indians the gains won under the 1988 Constitution ­particularly the demarcation of tribal lands --would not be taken away. 
Arnarildo Machado, a coordinator of the Legal Amazon Indigenous Organization, said only 83 of 519 indigenous areas have been demarcated in Brazil. 
"You are killing my people. The white man believes that Indians are fools," said Chief Raoni in a speech be­fore a session of the Chamber of Deputies. 
~utside, poli~e held back 270 Indians representing 70 tnbes. The Indians held war clubs, wore bright red paint and feather headdresses, and held up banners saying "Comply with the Constitution-Give Us Our Lands!" 
Chief Valdir Tobias of the Macuxi Indians, Brazil's sec­ond lar~est tribe, asked legislators to speed up the de­marcatiOn of the Raposa do Sol territory in the north­western jungle state of Roraima. 
"Home Improvement" ABC "Selnfeld" NBC "The Larry Sanders Show" HBO "Murphy Brown" CBS 
LEAD ACTOR 
Ted Danson 
'Cheers' NBC 
Tim Allen 
'Home Improvement' ABC 
Garry Shandllng 
'The Larry Sanders Show' HBO 
John Goodman 
'Roseanne• ABC 
Jerry Selnfeld 
"Seinfeld' NBC 
LEAD ACTRESS 
Marion Ross 
'Brooklyn Bridge' CBS 
Kirstie Alley 
"Cheers' NBC 
Helen Hunt 
'Mad About You' NBC 
Candice Bergen 
"Murphy Brown' CBS 
Roseanne Arnold 
'Roseanne' ABC 


REMINGTON COURT Nobody Compares with Sexton Ideal for Single Living! 9... Month LeasesDorm Single Living Living 0 r3 Your own kitchen 0 S' Your own microwave 0 Your own refrigerator 0 Your own bedroom 0 Your own private bath 0 Your own washer/dryer 0 Your own large closets 0 Your own lake view 0 Your own phone 0 Your own alarm system 0 Your own study{IV room 0 Your own heater/air conditioner •To..Your.. Door Parking •Club House For Football Parties •Pool & Jacuzzi •To..Your.. Door Mail Delivery And So Much More! Call255-7777 Today!  SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. ... ONEY BACK GUARANTEE: We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. Great for Tailgate and After..Game Parties! For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: SR 23 & Ironwood/277-7744 US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1 024 115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) Open 8 a.m. on home game days! *All Turkey Based  

Friday, September 17, 1993 

China prepared to start nuclear test explosions 
By RUTH SINAI 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The United States has intelli­gence information suggesting that China is planning to set off a nuclear test explosion, an administration official said Thursday. 
Such a test, which would be the first conducted by any country in a year, would threat­en the 14-month moratorium declared July 3 by President Clinton on U.S. nuclear testing. 
In announcing the suspen­sion, Clinton warned that if any country tested its weapons he would seek authority from Congress to resume U.S. tests. 
Russia, France and Britain have all promised that they would not be the first to test. But China has been sending what U.S. officials describe as contradictory signals. 
On the one hand, China has agreed to take part in negotia­tions starting next January in Geneva to ban all nuclear tests by the end of 1996. On the other hand, China has refused to say categorically that it will not test in the meantime. 
A high-level U.S. delegation that visited Beijing in July failed to elicit such a promise, as have subsequent contacts with the Chinese. 
Now, said the U.S. official who spoke only on condition of anonymity, satellite information and seismic monitors suggest that China is getting ready to test at its Lop Nor desert site in northwestern Xinjiang province. 
China conducted two tests last year-one in May, the other in September. 
Western experts estimated that the May explosion had a one-megaton yield -equal to about 70 bombs of the strength dropped on Hiroshima. 
The United States and former 
Soviet Union have an agree­
ment not to test any bomb with 
a yield of more than 150 mega­
tons. China hasn't joined that 
pact. 
China is believed to have the 
smallest arsenal of the world's 
five declared nuclear powers ­
slightly less than Britain's. 
c C((...,..-'l'y with purchase of a 22oz. medium drink ollp (must present coupon for this special) <lo'\:1­0/] (no limit) c,O..;y...,_ 
L-------------------------~ 

Grillin' and grinnin' 

Junior Gina Leggio, senior Steve Camilleri, junior Jack McEnery, sophomore Graham Wingenfeld, and junior Karen Dubay (right to left) get a head start on this weekends tailgating festivites at the Cavanaugh big broth­er/little sister picnic with Breen-Phillips yesterday. 
Robert Frost aimed to be 'people's poet' 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
News Writer 
Last night the Center for Continuing Education hosted a lecture by Professor Frank Lentricchia, chairman of the English department at Duke University. The lecture, entitled "Robert Frost, or Fame?", was an excerpt from Lentricchia's book of critical essays, due in early 1994. 
Lentricchia covered Frost's 

lver'etSomebody Total~ Wosted1 
TAU lHf Km. 

CAll ACAB. TAU ASIANO. 
fRifNOS DON'T lH fRifNOS DRIVf DRUNK 

beginnings as a farmer and a poet in the early twentieth cen­tury and went on to discuss the poet's ultimate fame and means of obtaining it. 
Lentricchia described Frost as aspiring to stand apart from other poets of the day as "the people's poet"-one outside the realm of the avant garde writ­ers of the day, such as Pound or Eliot. 
Lentricchia further discussed Frost's extensive self-promotion and his attempts to be the most readable poet in American lit­erature. Frost appeared self­serving despite his desire to come across as "Mr. Ordinary" to his massive readership, according to Lentricchia. 
Lentricchia evaluated Frost's later, more bitter poetry. Ac­cording to Lentricchia, these poems are critical and some­what condescending toward Frost's fellow writers and even his audience. 

~~~~----~------..~------~------~----~----------------------------~--~------------------------~-----------------------------------1 
page 4 

Bosnian peace planned 
The Observer • NEWS 


Transpo 
continued from page I 
Prior to this new plan, the seating capacity per hour was 43 people while an additional 20 to 30 patrons stood in the aisle. Transpo will now be able to provide their services to at least 120 people per hour. 
"Since the majority of Transpo users on this particu­lar route are Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, we see no reason why Transpo shouldn't expand its shuttle services," Nolen said. "If the demand is there, we would gladly add Sunday to our schedule as well." 
The rate of 75 cents each way will remain the same, despite the added personnel needed to drive the other two busses. 
Friday, September 17, 1993 


By TONY CZUCZKA 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 
Mediators asked Bosnia's three warring sides to meet in Sarajevo next week to sign a peace settlement, after the country's warring Muslims and Serbs signed a cease-fire accord Thursday. 
In signing the accord, Bosnia's Muslim President Alija lzetbegovic agreed in the clearest terms yet to possible secession by Bosnian Serbs and Croats to join their neigh­boring motherlands. 
"We have made progress," European Community media­tor Lord Owen said after lzetbegovic and the speaker of the self-styled Bosnian Serb parliament, Momcilo Krajisnik, signed a prelimi­nary agreement in Geneva. 
"We believe big steps toward peace will be taken in the next few days in connec­tion with peace in Bosnia ­the days ahead are very important days," he said. 

It followed a similar accord signed Tuesday between lzetbegovic and Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, also aimed at speeding the process. 
Both agreements provide for cease-fires by Saturday at the latest, an exchange of prisoners and a pledge not to hinder humanitarian aid con­voys. 
Tuesday's deal failed to stop Muslim-Croat fighting in cen­tral and southwest Bosnia. Clashes intensified Thursday after the brutal slaying of Croat villagers. Serb-Muslim fighting has been only spo­radic for about a month. 
lzetbegovic said Thursday he doubted differences among the three factions could be resolved by Tuesday, the date set for a signing a peace accord in Sarajevo. 

Dalloway's 
continued from page 1 

goals is to earmark some of the money for people who work there. 
"In the future, they can become like student workers similar to those at the dining hall, "Hartman said. 
Volunteers are a major part of Dalloway's operation. According to Rosenbush and Hartman, nearly 60 students signed up for volunteering at Saint Mary's Activities night. 
"We're really excited about them. If at least half of the peo­ple do actively volunteer, that will be great," Hartman said. 
According to Hartman, the coffeehouse usually ends up with a core volunteer group of 5-10 students who devote a lot of time to Dalloway's. 
With the coffeehouse opening at the end of this month, Hartman said they may have an acoustic cafe with a bunch of bands. 
"We're looking forward to a new season and we will con­tinue trying to improve the ser­vice," Rosenbush said. 

Sherman 
continued from page I 
tor for treating the lands his army occupied too leniently. His policy of burning and con­fiscating citizen property was intended to bring a swifter end to the war and to save lives on both sides. Accordingto Marszalek, much destruction attributed to Sherman's policy was in fact caused by escaped slaves, looters, and both Union and Confederate deserters. 
After the war, he considered himself "the South's best friend" and was even urged by a contingent of Southern news­papers to run for president. Shunning politics, he was con­tent with military life and quiet retirement, maintaining that "war is all hell." 
Ironically, neither of Sherman's sons ever used the scholarship given by Sorin. Instead, he arranged for the son of Western hero Kit Carson to attend Notre Dame, who later left school. 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Seamus Deane, Notre Dame's Keough Professor of Irish Studies, spoke yesterday afternoon on The Field Day Anthology. 
by discontinuity rather than continuity. The anthology


Deane 
shows this breakdown," said Deane.

continued from page I 
"When a civilization has un­dergone the degree of experi­guage, and the demolition of ences that the Irish have, onemany political systems. 

of the few ways they can articu­

"This is a country with a 
late themselves is through thestrong tradition, but a tradition cheapest of all the arts-writ­

characterized by breakdown, 
ing," he added. 

Sept. 18, 1993 
Happy 21st Birthday, Kelly 
Love, Mom, Dad, Sean, Kevin, Mary and the Annex 









WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST 
If 2,000 students agreed to give up one meal each week, we could raise over $25,000 for the hungry this semester. 
ONE MEAL A WEEK. 
THINK ABOUT IT. 
Call Diane at 4-4253 and leave your name and ID number. Thanks! 
Authors Linda Mans Learyand Patrick Leary 
will be at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore following the game Saturday, September 18 autographing their latest book 
"Children of Notre Dame" 
Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Nader's group: Senators took 680 trips 
By CASSANDRA BURRELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senators accepted 680 trips from lobbyists in 1991 and 1992, when the 102nd Congress was in session, a pri­vate watchdog 
group said Thursday. 
Businesses, trade groups and other organizations sometimes paid thou­sands of dol­


lars for trips Alan Simpson that ranged from short hops to New York and Boston to journeys to Taipei, Taiwan; Montego Bay, Jamaica; and Vienna, Austria, said Public Citizen, the nation­al group founded by consumer advocate Ralph Nader. 
While many of the trips may have been necessary or valu­able, many probably were not, Public Citizen President Joan Claybrook said in releasing "On the Road Again," the group's analysis of Senate travel. 
"While lawmakers defend their outings as necessary excursions, far too many ap­pear to be junkets designed to give special interests the edge on Capitol Hill," she said. 
Senators and their aides belittled the group's report, saying nothing sinister is going on. 
"Are they talking about my speaking to the National Elks Convention in Dallas or speak­ing before the sheep industry, the biggest in my state?" said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., who took 21 trips. 
"Spare me," he said. ''I'm often asked to make speeches on a wide variety of issues fac­ing the Congress. Some require short travel." 
"If members of Congress cloistered themselves in Washington, they would be accused of losing touch with people out in the rest of the country," said Rick Evans, chief of staff to Sen. Dave Durenberger, R-Minn., who was fifth on the list with 20 trips. "How are they supposed to learn anything if they can't leave Washington?" 
Public Citizen has proposed requiring the federal govern­ment to pay for all legitimate congressional travel. 
Sen. J. Bennett Johnston, D­La., accepted the most trips­28-during 1991 and 1992, Public Citizen said. Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J., and Sen. Conrad Burns, R-Mont., fol­lowed with 24 each. Simpson was fourth. 
Special interest groups pro­vide most of their trips to members of Congress who sit on committees with jurisdic­tion over their interests, the group said. 
The top travel sponsor ­with 38 trips -was the Aspen Institute, a non-profit group that brings lawmakers to its Congressional International Program, which promotes con­gressional leadership on for­eign policy issues. 
Public Citizen said Senate travel has declined since its last analysis, "They Love to Fly ... And It Shows!" a study that documented 1,100 pri­vately funded trips given to members of the tOOth Congress, in 1987 and 1988. 

Happy Birthday, Sean 
+ 
American Red Cross

We love you! 


Pacific warming contributed to floods 
By RANDY SCHMID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Warming of the Pacific Ocean was a major contributor to this year's Midwestern floods, but other factors also added to the disaster, a government analysis says. 
A phenomenon, known as ENSO, which causes the water in the central Pacific Ocean to warm up every three to seven years, was cited in a special cli­mate summary released Thursday by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
The ultimate fault in the flooding may lie with a combi­nation of factors. But, the report says, other causes "seem less likely than a direct influence of the sea-surface temperature anomaly in the tropical Pacific associated with the ENSO." 
ENSO stands for El Nino­Southern Oscillation. El Nino is the warming of the Pacific waters. 
Damage totaled more than $10 billion and 48 people lost their lives in flooding on the Upper Mississippi and related rivers this summer as persis­tent heavy rains deluged a region already soaked from 
~ 

~y /be Cobweb 
I 

7/nhf(ues Goffeclibles 234-9996(72)) 233-3364(Jf) 
Gxlendedhours on :Joolbafi72Jee.kends (7/iurs. -Cia!.) 
23ring in adfor JOC#J discounl 
Cliffs Notes give you a greater understanding of the classics. 
f{:/' '.­More than 200 titles. Learn 
~'/\--..;\_ 

more and earn bettergrades 
.LCliffSL 

as you stury 1 
/ PO Box 80728. L11~~~ 


winter snow melt. 
Wet soils continue to pose a problem for farmers in the region and raise the specter of more flooding next year. 
This year's wetness has left the ground with limited capaci­ty to absorb snow melt next spring, so heavy winter snows or spring rains next year could cause new floods. 
The direct cause of the 1993 flooding was a persistent and unusual weather pattern caus­ing storm after storm after storm to inundate the region. 
The pattern that brought those storms to the Midwest was encouraged by the ENSO, according to the report from NOAA's Climate Analysis Center in Camp Springs, Md. 
Under normal summer condi­tions, high altitude winds that move weather across the nation flow more-or-less directly from west to east. 
But the El Nino's warm water in the Pacific caused rising air there, deflecting the high-level winds to the north. Those winds then arced back to the south over the western states and looped north again near the Mississippi Valley. 
As it headed south, the wind brought cool air from Canada and the loop back north pulled moisture into the Midwest from the Gulf of Mexico. 
The warm, wet Gulf air met the cool Canadian air over the northern Mississippi Valley, and the result was nearly end­less rain. 
Or, in the words of the scien­tists: "The front supported pro­duction of widespread areas of prolonged and excessive pre­cipitation ... and initiated the worst flooding in more than a century throughout the north­ern Mississippi River basin." 

PAC IN 0 
SCENT 
---OFA--­
VVOMAN 
1!!1.@1, II ~'::'-":!:f Friday & Saturaday Night 7:00 & 9:30 Carroll Auditorium. SMC $2.00 admission 

~l 
fiaJMhn, 
fll Clti~se RestaurGnt 
Open 7 Days A Week 
Sun ,Thurs-11:30 a.m.,9:30 p.m. Fri & Sat-11:30 a.m.' 10:30 p.m. Mon,Sat,Lunch Special-11:30 a.m.'3 p.m. 
...:::.-~unday Buffet-11:30 a.m.,J p.m. \! 1~•Carry Out Service ,~ • Largest Dine, In Chinese \ . Restaurant In Town . '1i · ~•2 Separate Banquet Rooms 
' 

.~/ ' Douglas 
8.

0 
c 
0 
N



IND I ] 

255--6868 +---+M-cK_inl_eyfU_S
2~0 
313 W. McKinley Ave. 
UiU 

Mishawaka 
-------~ ­
~~---~­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 

Haitians: Success measured in survival 
• 
By CHRIS ANGELO Associa1ed Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
Facing army-sponsored mur­ders, a looted treasury and hostile soldiers, Prime Minister Robert Malva! measures his 2­week-old government's progress by its day-to-day sur­vival. 
Malva!, in a lengthy interview Wednesday, declared he would not quit before he helps usher in the return 't>f exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. He also said he was in no hurry to call in foreign troops as some supporters of democracy have demanded. 
"We have said we will take the job and will go all the way, and I mean all the way," he told The Associated Press. 
Malva!, 50, heads the transi­tion team that is preparing for the Oct. 30 return of Aristide, the country's first freely elected president. Aristide was over­thrown by a military coup in September 1991. 
But a climate of fear has en­veloped Haiti since Sept. 8, when police stood by as armed civilians killed five people and injured 31 outside City Hall while elected Mayor Evans 
CORRECTION 
An article yesterday incor­rectly stated the price of refreshments at the Oliver Syndrome concert. The price of refreshments is $1. 
Home Based Bed/Breakfast Alliance 
Local, Family Comfort for all NO activities 
(219) 271~0989 
24 hour answering machine 

(, Marsha K's ((I) Crafts & Balloons 

~$1."off any 
Balloon Bouquet 
North Village Mall 
273-1570 


Paul, also ousted in the 1991 coup, tried to reclaim his office. 
Then on Saturday, people de­scribed by U.N. human rights observers as army auxiliaries assassinated Antoine Izmery. a leading pro-Aristide business­man during a church Mass. 
U.N. human rights observers reported 12 people were killed in political violence that week­end. 
Public figures have received death threats or seen their names on purported hit lists. 
On Thursday, a coalition of supporters of the Duvalier fam­ily dictatorship, which was ousted in 1986 in a popular re­volt, threatened violent street protests if U.N. envoy Dante Caputo isn't expelled. Caputo brokered the peace plan pro­viding for Aristide's return. 
Because of the surge in vio­lence, the U.N. Security Council met Thursday to consider a re­quest to increase the force of 
U.N. 
military advisers to 250, 

U.N. 
spokesman Juan Carlos Brandt said in New York. Fifteen advisers now in the country are on a mission to re­train Haiti's notoriously re­pressive police. 


No arrests have been made in any of the attacks. Wilson Ciceron, the government pros­ecutor overseeing investiga­tions of the attacks, resigned Tuesday. citing death threats. 
"When the state prosecutor flies to Miami after writing a Jetter that he has to protect his own little self, how can you ex­pect anyone to come forward?" Malva! asked. 
The violence has raised doubts about the U.N.-backed transition to democracy. In the interview, Malva! acknowl­edged that some Cabinet minis­ters don't sleep at home, fear­ing for their lives. 
Malva! still works out of his home because military-backed officials have not yielded him the prime minister's offices in the downtown presidential palace. 
But he asserts his govern­ment holds about half the na­tion's power and is gaining, al­beit slowly. 
"Each day we survive as a government means that each day we are getting power, whether we do our work or not," he said. "These people fool themselves if they think they can stop the whole pro­cess." 
He said, however, "we are expecting more crises." 









Author 
Murray Sperber 
Friday, Sept. 17th 2:30 to 3:30 
Will autograph New Book 



''Shake Down the Thunder'' 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Hours: Friday, Sept. 17th 9 to 7 Saturday, Sept. 18th 8 to 6 
--~-~------~­
Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Exhausted and uncertain, more Poles turn to the left 

By FRANK BAJAK 
Associated Press 
POZNAN, Poland 

Poised, glib and stridently leftist, Krystyna Lybacka is a new and suddenly popular hy­brid in Polish politics -an un­abashed former member of the party that enforced Soviet dom­ination. 
Her alliance of mostly former Communists is the strongest of three leftist parties that poll­sters say could together win half the vote Sunday in what could be pivotal elections for post-Communist Poland. 
Lybacka is the leading Democratic Left Alliance candi­date in Poznan, a bustling in­dustrial and foreign trade cen­ter midway between Berlin and Warsaw that also is the home turf of Prime Minister Hanna Suchocka. 
Suchocka has been in office 14 months. Her centrist coali­tion is the fourth and most durable to run the country since democracy's 1989 arrival, winning wide international acclaim. 
By most accounts, Poland is eastern Europe's best success story. 
Its economy is expected to grow by 4.5 percent this year, one in four state industries has been privatized, and nearly 60 percent of the work force is in the private sector -more than twice the combined rates of Hungary and the Czech Republic. 
I .c.t9-: ~~~i't..~ 
Chinese-America;--, 
~ . '~ t"'i &.ra j Restaurant & I
AL Cocktail Lounge 
'tYn L 1\.ulhen~c Szechuan, . . 
M!ndarm & Hunan CUJSif<~ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Banquet rooms a a'lable f t 200 
" v 1 or up 0 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
I 

~xt w R"'__dall's Inn) _ _­
(C) 1990 The Olive Gorden Restaurant\. 
Only at The Olive Garden can you find fresh-baked garlic bread­sticks like these. Soft, warm. And their goodness never ends. Because once you finish a basketful, we give you another. And another. 
But save some room for Italian specialties, like lasagna and veal 
But fiscal restraint and free­market reforms have cost the government popularity with those for whom being weaned from cradle-to-grave socialism has been painful. 
In a land where the vast majority can only window-shop at newly opened Yves Saint­Laurent shops and Mercedes­Benz dealerships, where the gulf between rich and poor is widening, politicians like Lybacka are rising stars. 
"We will put an end to thiev­ery and incompetence in gov­ernment," Lybacka, 46, told sympathetic construction unionists while campaigning this week. 
Like most of the candidates from a kaleidoscope of 35 par­ties or alliances vying for votes on Sunday, Lybacka vows to, reduce rising unemployment ­now 15.4 percent-and re­store the social safety net. 

But like nearly all its oppo­nents, her alliance is not explaining how it can offer cheap credit, subsidies for farmers and state-owned in­dustries without triggering hy­perinflation or refusing to honor foreign creditors. 
"They have no credible pro­gram," says Warsaw columnist Konstanty Gebert. "If their pro­gram were to be implemented, the country would be broke in three months. There would be hyperinflation." 
Leszek Balcerowicz, the for­mer finance minister who brought hyperinflation under control in 1990 and charted Poland's refm.:ms, accuses the former Communists and right­wing populist parties alike of playing on people's fears with empty promises. 
He said the economic stimu­lus programs of such parties "would mean printing more money" while their pro­tectionist prescriptions would force consumers "to buy trash for high prices." 
The second fully free parlia­me{ltary elections in post­Communist Poland were ne­cessitated by President Lech Walesa's dissolution of Parliament in June after politi­cal squab,bling unexpectedly produced a no-confidence vote. 

East German bosses convicted in killings 
By KEVIN COSTELLOE 
Associated Press 
BERLIN A judge convicted three elderly former Communist lead­
ers Thursday in the shooting deaths of East Germans trying to scale the Berlin Wall. 

It was the first time that top the shoot-to-kill orders. figures in the former Honecker, 81, is hospitalized in Communist regime were found Chile with liver cancer and was guilty in deaths ~t the Berlin excuse_d fro_m s!anding trial. Wall. At least eight border Berhn D1stnct Court Judge ~ards have already been con-Hans Boss ruled that the three v1cted. defendants had supported the 
Communist supporters booed shoot-to-kill orders. as guilty verdicts were read "Without those decisions, the against former Defense soldiers wouldn't have shot and Minister Heinz Kessler, 73; his the army engineering corps deputy Fritz Streletz, 66; and wouldn't have planted mines," 73-year-old Hans Albrecht, a he said. member of East Germany's Streletz said he believes the National Defense Council. convictions were political. 
Kessler and Streletz, also "In my opinion, the closing members of the Council, were arguments of the prosecutor convicted of incitement to com-were marked by 40 years of the mit manslaughter and sen-Cold War," he told reporters. tenced to 7 1/2 years and 5 1/2 Communist supporters jam­years in prison respectively. ming the spectators' section of Both have served 28 months the dank courtroom booed and behind bars. broke into a chorus of the 
Albrecht was found guilty of lnternationale, the socialist aiding and abetting manslaugh-anthem. As courtroom guards ter and sentenced to 4 1/2 years rushed to restore ord!)r, many in prison. He has been free raised their fists in defiance. because of poor health. Among the spectators was 
Conspicuously absent from Egon Krenz, who briefly fol­the courtroom was Erich lowed Honecker as Communist Honecker, who allegedly issued Party boss in late 1989. 
salad you like. With friendly service. And modest prices. 
So come enjoy our garlic bread­sticks. We'll keep giving you more so you'll keep coming back for more. 
1k 

parmigiana. Pastas that we make 



af!it~~­
fresh in the restaurant. And all the 
WHERE ALL THE BEsT OF ITALY Is YouRS~ 
South Bend, opposite University Pk. Mall, 277-6503. 

GARLIC BREADSTICKS WITHOUT END 

page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 17, 1993 
s=~~~~~~~~==========~~~--~--~ 

Palestinians surprised by peace accord 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 
· ><!Prea 

JERUSALEM 
Walid Dajani snaps open a glossy brochure displaying condominiums stacked like wedding cakes over a marina crammed with yachts. 
The brochure is of Spain. But it's his vision of the Gaza Strip, with its poverty erased, swaddled in new affiuence. 
"Gaza is going to be the pearl of the whole area," he promises.. 
Dajani and some 300 other Palestinian technocrats, from offices scattered across east Jerusalem, have labored for two years on an outline for an autonomy government. 
They did not ·anticipate, however. Monday's historic accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization on the principles of self-rule for Gaza and the West Bank. 
Suddenly, the pact trans­formed their intellectual "what-ir' exercise into a dead­line for running Palestinian af-

More troops requested in Somalia 
By SHEILA NORMAN-CULP 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
Faced with increasing vio­lence in Mogadishu, the U.N. special envoy for Somalia said Thursday he has asked for 4,000 more peacekeepers to patrol the country's volatile capital. 
"I wish I had them last week," retired U.S. Adm. Jonathan Howe told a news conference, where he an­nounced a two-year timetable for restoring democracy to the East African nation. 
Howe ruled out negotiating with fugitive warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid or his followers. 
Howe has been criticized for focusing more on capturing Aidid than the United Nations' humanitarian mission. U.N. forces have failed to arrest Aidid or to stop attacks on peacekeepers despite near­daily clashes with Somali militia and dozens of raids on their suspected compounds. A June ambush killed 24 Pakistani peacekeepers. . 
About 12,000 U.N. forces now are in Mogadishu, most of them support troops. 
Howe came to U.N. headquar­ters to brief Secretary-General 
September 24, 1993 Stepan Center Bpm 
Tickets available at the Info. Desk at LaFortune 

fairs. 
Sari Nusseibeh, a Bir Zeit University philosophy pro­fessor, organized the technical committees· in almost 40 sub­jects after the peace talks opened in Madrid in 1991. 
Critics accuse the technical committees of still dreaming, of being too diffuse, too slow. They may be in for a rude shock when the PLO's admin­istrative juggernaut arrives from its current headquarters in Tunis, ready to issue orders after decades in wandering exile. 
PLO leader Yasser Arafat has declared he would like to be in Jericho within 10 weeks, to start planning for autonomy in the occupied West Bank town and Gaza. Palestinian self-rule is to spread gradually throughout the occupied terri­tories, with their final status determined within five years. 
Education, taxation, tourism, health and -toughest of all­security will become the responsibility of Palestinians. 
Now the committee's acade­mic position papers have to be 
Boutros-Boutros Ghali. He said U.S. Congress next week. Thursday he has the U.N. Howe said the United Nations chiefs full support. despite ru­is working on possible elections mors that Howe would be re­in Somalia in January 1995. He placed. said 36 of the country's 76 dis­
"I have my return ticket," he trict councils would be estab­said. He plans to speak to the lished by the end of this week. 
~ WINNER' OVER 10 1\TER.'\ATIO\AI. A\HRDS 1\CLL'DI\G: ~
I BEST PICTURE •ARIEL AWARD • BIST ACTRESS •TOKYO FILM FESTIVAL .•11 
~ 1 BIST SCR!INPLAY •CHICAGO INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL ¥ 
translated into work orders for 
massive projects like roads, 
schools, sewage, etc. Faxes 
whir to PLO headquarters in 
Tunis and back around the 
clock. 
"It is the most historic, diffi­
cult, frustrating and ambitious 
period l have ever experi­
enced,'' said Hassan Abu 
Libda, deputy director of the 
committees. 
Priorities are just being 
established. 
Dajani admitted that build­
ing hotels before the refugees 
have decent housing was 
unlikely. He doesn't want 
tourists "taking pictures of the 
camps like they were the jun­
gle." 
Israeli security forces and 
PLO fighters are supposed to 
set aside decades of warfare 
and cooperate on everything 
from traffic infractions to sui· · cide bombers. 
Israel's army chief of staff Lt. Gen. Ehud Barak said this week that joint patrols were possible. 

Angolan leader against 
U.N. sanction delays 
By CHRISTOPHER McDOUGALL Associared Press 

LUANDA, Angola 
Angola's president denounced a delay in imposing U.N. sanc­tions against UNITA rebels, and urged Angolans Thursday to gather strength for more light­ing. 
The U.N. Security Council voted unanimously Wednesday to impose arms and oil embar­goes against UNITA on Sept. 25 if the rebels do not honor peace accords they signed in 1991 but later rejected. 
President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos' government wanted broader sanctions and immedi­ate implementation. But U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali urged the 10-day delay to encourage UNITA, or 
~----------------------------~ 
BUY ONE, GET OHE FREEl I : 
WAFFLE CONE. l 
I Please present coupon before ordenng One ~ifit;=:':I coupon per customer per visit Offer good only . AO~~J I at address above. Not valid in combination w1th : I any other offer. Expi~s 10/15/93 o1091, , c..·• ..,_"",.,.... ,.. I
L---------------------------­
A SUPPORT GROUP FOR 
~UJR.VJIV(())IR~ (())IF IRAJPJE 
• Free of Charge • Completely Confidential 
• Held on Campus 
• Open to all ND/SMC female students 
• Sponsored by Sex Offense Services & C.A.R.E For info, please call 234,0061 ext. 1308 
Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover afforclablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includos team sports, free aerobics classes, and mucl1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bedrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free Aerobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

1-t-cl.EV~ 
~7~-1SS() 
+UCKORU 
DlLLAC]Ef'A 
.•x 
the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, to re­turn to the negotiating table. 
The United States, mean­while, urged UNITA to stop fighting immediately. The remarks came in a statement released from the U.S. Embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. 
.While welcoming the Security Council's general condemnation of UNITA, dos Santos said he felt "great disappointment" about the delay in implement­ing the sanctions. 
Addressing the nation from his residence, dos Santos said the U.N. delay and the rebels' past rejections of peace "rein­forces our belief that we can rely only on our own forces... to recapture all the zones occu­pied by UNITA and force them to dismantle their illegal army." 
.... 

~~------~----------~---~--~-----~--~----------­
-

Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Black biochemist 
Hubble mechanics test tools 
sparks sciencecuriosity" 
By LISA PERLMAN The youngsters come·a:tter Associated Pre$$ school and on Saturdays from nearby communities, or fQr · BLOOMINGDALE. Mich. weekat a time from as far as 
Many of the youngsters who Chicago, 150 miles to the come to LeRoy Ray Jr.'s farm southwest, for a year-round have never before gazed at a offering that includes stints at star-filled night sky, tended a the university laboratories. garden or cooked a hot dog Historically black children on an open fire. have been taught, however 
More importantly to Ray, subtly, they're not smart most have never met a scien· enough to handle science and tist who is black. mathematics, says Ray, a64~ 
For 20 years this bio-year-old native T chemist and director of Black "Parents tell their · Americana Studies at don't like science or Western Michigan University no good with. numbers.,..,.... '"'u has done what he says the thafswrong.~·-· 
U.S. public school system has Ray's love for .l>.cteu~;e failed to do: get black young-~g · !a sters excited about science. ;:}if/Vis 
Ray hasn't kept count. but 
he figures thousaqds 
people have passed · .··· · ·· 
his farm in southwes 
Michigan. tt.1ld its Jia11df!~ ·.. 
Science Program. 
The program takes ~bout 60 children at & time, ,?50 the course of a fear. on an annual budget o ·$15,000 to -·~·· 
$20,000.·\-;ito,ri'ailihs i1fh1 
By MARCIA DUNN Hubble repair mission, Milt side a new portable foot re­Associated Press Heflin, said the spacewalk was straint designed for Hubble. "a confidence builder, a day Once secured, he swayed back CAPE CANAVERAL that I consider adding to our and forth high over the bay, 
Two astronauts acting as margins for success." adjusting the platform with a Hubble Space Telescope me­The first-time spacewalkers foot pedal. chanics twisted bolts and tried spent most of their outing The two eventually swapped out a swivel work platform working along the edge of Dis­jobs. They worked so fast Mis­Thursday in NASA's final covery's payload bay. At times, sion Control had to think up ex­spacewalk before the real re­they dangled overboard as the tra chores. pair job in December. shuttle whizzed around the The only real problem came 
Crewmen Carl Walz and world, their tethered tools at the end when the door on a James Newman tested a power floating around them. portable tool box jammed. It ratchet and five other Hubble Walz and Newman zipped took both men a half-hour to tools during their seven-hour through their steps, evaluating close it; by then, their planned spacewalk. Before going back each tool and task and compar­six-hour walk had stretched to inside the shuttle Discovery, ing it to their water tank train­seven hours. they held up a sign with a pic­ing on Earth. They gave lots of ture of the, ace of spades and A's, but some C's and even D's, A record five and possibly the words: "Ace HST Tool too. seven spacewalks are planned Testers." Walz had trouble, for in­for the 11-day telescope repair 
"Great show today you guys," stance, using the battery-pow­mission, making it the most said Mission Control's Gregory ered ratchet to tighten and daunting and ambitious shuttle Harbaugh, a backup space­untighten bolts with his flight to date. Four spacewalk­walker for the Hubble Space restrained feet. ers will take turns going out in Telescope mission. Flight con­"Your body just goes whip­teams of two to install correc­trollers applauded in the back­ping around," he said. tive lenses and new solar pan­ground. At the same time, Newman els, gyroscopes, camera, com­The flight director for the was trying to keep his feet in-puter memory board and more. 
Experts: Brittle steel made Titanic sink 
By RICHARD PYLE have held up longer after the seabed 12,000 feet down. Associated Press collision in 31-degree water The Titanic report was part and more lives might have been of an extensive review of 

NEW YORK saved, they said. Many more passengers might Whether the Titanic could ac­have survived the Titanic's col­tually have stayed afloat after 
lision with an iceberg 81 years the collision is "problematical," ago if the liner had been made said William Garzke, New
a of sterner stuff, said a study of York naval architect. He was this century's greatest peace­co-author of the report, pre­time sea disaster. 
sented at the centennial meet­In a report made public ing of the Society of Naval Ar­
Thursday, maritime experts chitects and Marine Engineers. said the ship's steel plating suf­Garzke said that question will fered "brittle fracture" in the 
remain unanswered without icy waters of the North Atlantic. first-hand study of the liner's A better grade of steel might hull, partly buried in the 





Thursday-Ladies Night 
c::£~1 A~ 

Victoria's Real Secret 
I3ountiful Baskets 
Emily The Essentials with EZ Ed Right 
Baskets of Gifts for All Occasions
• 

Parents-Make leaving home a little easier 
SPECIAL OCCASION BASKET
Friday-Jo-Jo and 2 doz homemade cookies 2 large muffins 
The Blues Train 

8 oz snakems 3 fruits salsa and chips 2 candy bars 2 pkg. gum Saturday -The Bel Airs 
$2395 
Campus 
Free Delivery On Campus 1-800-373-9716 


ND WOMEN SPEAK OUT 
An invitation to the entire Notre Dame Community to listen to and speak about Gender Relations 
Featuring: 
Guest speakers Poetry Readings Music *Open to Personal Tesitmony 
September 20th 
7:30PM 

101 De Bartolo 
***Refreshments Following 
research by manned and robot submersibles. Another section dealt with findings about the German battleship Bismarck, sunk by the British in 1941. 
Pronounced "unsinkable" by its owners, the British firm Cu­nard White Star, the Titanic was on its first voyage, from Southampton to New York, when it hit an iceberg off New­foundland on April14, 1912. 
Of the more than 2,340 peo­ple aboard, about 700 were able to get off during two hours and 40 minutes before the Ti­tanic sank at 2:30 a.m.. its orchestra supposedly playing "Nearer My God To Thee" in the fmal moments. 
The report is the latest revi­sion of history concerning the fabled ship. The hulk was lo­cated in 1985 by explorer Robert D. Ballard of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. 
Four later expeditions by re­search minisubs and robots re­vealed that the ship broke into two main pieces, and that the iceberg did not rip a 300-foot gash in the hull, allowing mul­tiple compartments to flood. 
Garzke and Dana Yoeger, of Woods Hole, another of the study's five authors, said it fur­ther demolishes the "gash" theory, which has been nur­tured partly by news accounts, books and movies about the Ti­tanic. 


London $269 St. Petersburg $399 Belize City $229 Rio de Janeiro $505 Bangkok $619 
Airfares are each W;Jof based on aroundtrip purchase and subject to change. Restrictions apply. Taxes not tncluded. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 

BUSINESS 
page 10 Friday, September 17, 1993 
Ford, UAW agree on 3-year pact 
By AlAN ADLER 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Now that Ford Motor Co. and the United Auto Workers have made labor peace for the next three years, the question is how to fit their contract to larg­er and more troubled General Motors Corp. 
The union and Ford reached a tentative agreement Wednesday night that is de­signed to be the basis for con­tracts with GM and Chrysler Corp. 
The deal includes a 3 percent pay raise in the first year and lump sum bonuses equal to 2 1/2 percent and 2 percent in the second and third years, union and company sources said. A Ford assembler cur­rently earns $16.12 an hour. 
Aside from wages, the con­tract's more generous pension provisions could help GM shed workers as it continues a lengthy reorganization de­signed to trim some of the highest costs in the car indus­
try.  
Seve.ral  union  workers  
switching  shifts  Thursday  
afternoon  at  a  suburban  

Detroit Ford plant were pleased the agreement came without a strike, though negoti­ations extended nearly 24 hours past a strike deadline. 
"We've made so many gains over the last 10 to 15 years. Everybody loses with a strike," said Geoffrey Green, who has worked at Ford for 29 years. 
The contract says workers with 30 years of seniority who retire by the end of the agree­ment will receive a monthly pension of $2,100, up $300 from the current monthly re­tirement benefit. The biggest part of the increase will come in the first year to persuade workers eligible for retirement to leave. 
If GM cuts 40,000 U.S. hourly workers during the next three years, the pension benefit alone could cost more than $1 billion a year. That's based on an estimate of annual per worker retirement "costs of $25,200. 
With a current unfunded pension liability estimated to be as much as $19 billion, GM can scarcely afford to make more promises. 
But if GM can structure a side deal with the union that would lead to early retirements -as it did earlier this year ­the financial burden could pos­sibly be shifted to shareholders through a one-time charge against earnings. 
"With respect to the Ford­UAW tentative agreement. we are not going to publicly specu­late on how the agreement may apply to GM," said Gerald Knechtel, vice president of GM's North American person­nel. "We will leave those kinds of discussions for the bargain­ing table.!' 
Clinton: Healthcare plan requires sacrifice 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Some people will have to pay more to ensure health-care coverage for all Americans, President Clinton said Thursday in his most direct description of the sacrifices his proposal will demand. 
As Clinton spoke, he was sur­rounded by people brought to the White House to tell hard­luck stories of health coverage lost or in jeopardy. 
"I don't want to pretend that this is all going to be easy, but it seems to me that it's a fair thing to say everyone in America should make some contribution to his or her own health insurance and all employers should make some contribution," Clinton said. 
Later, he visited a hardware store to make the same point, but was told by the owner that "small business cannot afford this plan." He answered back that it would have to for its own good. 
Clinton suggested some peo­ple could lose jobs in the over­haul but added that the major question was, "Are we going to lose more jobs doing what we're doing or are we going to lose more jobs with the alterna­tive?" 
His aides said many more · obs would be gained than lost in reforming the system because that would spur the economy and make employers more likely to hire. One aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 200,000 jobs could be lost in five years, a tiny drop in the pool of jobs. There was no corresponding estimate on jobs potentially gained. 
Clinton started his day listen­ing to people buried in debt or 
Most hoosiers in Congress straddle fence on trade treaty 
By BOB LEWIS 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
President Clinton has the votes of only three Hoosiers in Congress for the North American Free Trade Agreement so far, but five House members from Indiana are at least willing to hear him out. 
Four House members -all of them Democrats -oppose the Clinton-backed proposal to lift trade barriers between the United States, Mexico and Canada, an Associated Press survey of Indiana's 10 repre-
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
LOS ANGELES 
Health care industry faces job disruption· 
For decades a massive job-generating machine, the health care industry is facing slower growth and a shift in employment ahead of reform. 
Health care employment in number of workers 

• 
Primary care physicians 


• 
Nurses, midwives, nurse practitioners 

• 
Medical laboratories 

• 
Large Insurers 



fear because of problems with the nation's health care system. 
He said his plan, to be unveiled Wednesday, will require workers and employers to share the burden to elimi­nate health care horrors: People going broke to stay healthy, losing jobs or insur­ance over illnesses and staying with bad jobs only because they include health insurance. 
"Even the millions of Americans who enjoy health care coverage are afraid it won't be there for them next month or next year. They want us to take action to give them the security that all Americans deserve," Clinton told the gath­ering of people who had written the White House about their problems. 
Under a white tent in the Rose Garden, on a dark, drizzly morning, Clinton invited 21 of 
_/. _·· 


sentatives and two senators shows. 
Rep. Lee Hamilton is the only Indiana Democrat who has announced support for the treaty. Sens. Richard Lugar and Dan Coats, both staunch back­ers ofNAFTA, are Republicans. 
Two of the five uncommitted House members -Democrat Reps. Phil Sharp and Jill Long -say they are leaning against NAFTA but will not finalize their positions until after Clinton submits the bill to Congress. 
"There's the potential for job Joss in the United States and 

An opinion piece in the Los Angeles Times that used Hitler and Mussolini to pil· lory The Gap's khaki pants ads so outraged the retailer that it stripped all its advertis­ing from the Times' Sunday magazine. Gap's pitches for the pants invoke larger· than-life literary and Hollywood figures as fans of khaki's casual elegance: Ernest Hemingway, Humphrey Bogart and James Dean, to name a few. In a Sept. 5 opinion piece, novelist Christopher Corbett prompted the Gap to call the Times and pull its ads from the Los Angeles Times Magazine. 
NEW YORK 

1992  1988  1984----­ 
4.763  3.811  3.289  
5.087 256,000 264,000 10.37 +17%  4.600 228,000 246,000 8.885 +10%  4.327 206,000 231,000 8.053 +18%  


not include medical supplies and instruments 

• 
Small Insurers 

• 
Makers of expensive medical technology 

• 
Specialist physicians 


the letter writers to tell their stories. The made-for-television event, meant to personalize the debate, kicked off a sales effort that will last months. 
Cancer victim Suzy Somers read her letter, which told how she lost her health insurance after her ex-husband went bankrupt. Then she added, "Last week, I found another lump on my breast." 
The audience fell silent. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton abruptly clenched her hands into fists. 
Another woman, Jean Kazmarck of Glen Ellyn, Ill., read the letter she had written about how she was having trou­ble getting health insurance because of problems she'd had with her first pregnancy. She wants a second child but is worried about her lack of cov-
Congresswoman Long has some concerns about dealing with a country like Mexico, because it's not a full democracy," said David Early, Long's press sec­retary. 
"Once it's introduced, then we'll have a public statment. She's still looking at it. In fact she's got the actual text (NAFTA proposal) -all five volumes -on her desk right now." 
Winning over uncommitted House members such as Sharp, Long and Republicans Stephen Buyer, Dan Burton and John Myers is crucial for Clinton to get Congress to ratify NAFTA. 
Uncommitted congressional delegates are the target of heavy lobbying by organized labor, which launched its intense grassroots campaign against NAFTA during Congress' August recess. 
The Indiana AFL-CIO plans a weekend rally for Sept. 25 in Indianapolis against NAFTA. 
Other key enemies of the pact are billionaire Ross Perot and his United We Stand America organization, environmentalists and even former presidential candidates and political oppo­sites Jesse Jackson and Patrick Buchanan. 

Mercedes-Benz of North America has told about 30 magazines not to run its ads in any issue with articles that may reflect poorly on Germany or the company. While the automaker said Thursday that most of the magazines have agreed, some industry executives and analysts questioned whether the request could censor a publication's content. "I think it potentially has a rather chilling effect," said Everett Dennis, executive director of the Freedom Forum, a media research group at Columbia University. 
. '· I 
I 


WASHINGTON 
A federal judge Thursday upheld a pro­vision of the new cable TV law that requires cable operators to negotiate pro­gramming prices with local affiliates of ABC, CBS, NBC and other networks. U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson rejected cable industry arguments that this so-called "retransmission consent" clause of the 1992 cable act violates the industry's First Amendment rights. The decision was a loss for Time Warner Entertainment Co., and two other companies that had chal­lenged the constitutionality of several por­tions of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act. 
Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I'm sorta rich and very desperate. Need MSU stud tic Will trade Call NEED MSU + FSU GA'S Need Mich St. tix! Call Darren at Jen x2801 TOM @271-2908 PERSONAL
NOTICES L-_F_O_R_RE_N_T __.
II _ 
287-8090 GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING I need GA and Student tickets for $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­Need MSU GA's MSU! Will pay $1 Howie 273-5347 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ 
NO FOOTBALL PARKING. Logan DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT. x4519 WANTED WANTED WANTED Center, non-profit organization is $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA. NO vs USC -Need tickets for 1 MICH. ST. STUDENT TICKET SHORT ON CASH? offering reserved parking near sta­JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444. Need 2 Ga's for Pitt game. Please 1 0/23 game.Chris Marks CALL JULIE AT 2784. dium for all home games. Call Call Will x3080 800-523-3139. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MORRISSEY LOAN FUND (219)289-4831, 9 to 2, M-F. 1"/o interest 
HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE. FOR SALE: I NEED 1 MSU stu tix...l PLEASE $10-$250 loans NICE ACCOMMODATIONS. MSU GAs WANTED! AMY x4813 •sTUDENT TICKET FOR BC & CALL Molly at x1291 
271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING usc· STOP BY 11 :30-12:30 mon.-fri. Experience the ultimate of all MACHINE. I NEED 3 GAS & 1 STUD CALL 703-538-6657 NEED 1 Pitt GA/Stud.$$$ call Sue O'hara Lounge, Lafortune sports-SKYDIVING! Train with FOR PITT CALL 4248 ASK FOR BRENDAN x2768 (next to info. desk) Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and BED & BREAKFAST IN HOME OF ·sAME DAY SERVICE• receive 1 O"'o off our 1st Jump SAINT MARY'S STUDENT'S PAR­Selling MSU Stud, Pete-273-5909 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Course, with student I D. West ENTS. CLOSE TO STADIUM. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR WANTED Michigan's oldest & most experi­CALL 258-7935. NO -MICH. ST. GA TIX. CALL PITT AND FSU TIX. X2756 Jen Snodgrass, I want to meet you. enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. Selling MSU Stud, Pete-273-5909 ated. One hour North of South BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­Ru Paul Schoaps says 'When it Bend. (616)628-4892 ND/SMC EVENTS ALUM WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO NEED 1 PITT GA. x3533-joe. comes to tailgating, the place to be 
(219) 291-7153 OR FOUR TICKETS TO ANY OR 2 Pitt GA's needed. Will pay top $. is behind Senior Bar." Typing ALL OF THE FOLLOWING HOME Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any Call4-2774. 287-4082 GAMES: PITTSBURGH, USC, combination. $Call Amy 2658 
FLORIDA STATE, BOSTON COL­NEED MSU GA OR STUD X3265 ADOPTION IS LOVE 
FOR SALE
Undergraduate meeting Sunday LEGE. CALL BILL HOGAN I NEED PITT TICKETS, GA PREF­Loving Indiana medical profession­
7pm glndlsmc. Kelly 289-4063. (OFFICE) 217-782-6995 ERED call T1m at x1225 Will pay BIG for MSU GAs als eager to adopt newborn. ALARM SYSTEMS; CAR, HOME (ANS. MACHINE) 217-698-9267 call Paul 273-5972 MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential. AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR Call our horne toll free to hear all 
ILOST & FOUND I 
INFORMATION CALL JASON @ GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST. about us. Jaci and Jon 1-BOQ-224­
237-9702. GA:s 2773097 Will pay BIG for MSU GAs 2429. LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM Will trade MSU(B) and BC(6) tix for call Paul 273-5972 FROM A NECKLACE-VERY BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS Southern Cal. Call631-6305 or $$$$NEED GA's-ALL HOME$$$$ Homophobia is a choice. glndlsmc IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 291-4240. $$$$GAMES. Steve x1217$$$$$ po 194 NO IN 46556 FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777. I need 4 Stanford GAs 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO 1 need Msunx call Mike @ x2276 would you tell me if i had that white, 
'89 TOYOTA Corolla OX Wagon. PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$. Will pay cash or trade for calciferous, toothpaste stuff around LOST: Black trunk at the end of 92-Excellent condition. 5 speed, CALL ALISA @ 4-1302. Pitt GA's John 273-4119 NEED 2 PITT TIX. GA'S OR my mouth? 93 school year. Full of sweatshirts, power steering & brakes, AIC, FM STUD. PLEASE CALL USA NO softball items. Disappeared cassette, roof rack. 78k mi. $6400. x1297. "MARSHMALLOW" M.S.U. from hallway in PW. Possibly put in Call (219) 277-4422. $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ someone's storage or mistakenly ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE taken home. Reward. Please call AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT Help! I need four tickets to the stud. tix. boklet 4 sale. 287-2528 ISO Middle-Aged, Athletic (313)856-6828 1990 NISSAN 240 SX, 5-SPEED, 273-6588. Boston College game .... after6p.m. Madisonian to share good times, 
LOADED, 13,000 MILES, MINT romance and undeiWear. Reply CONDITION. $11,000.271-1839. Really Need 2 USC GA's for family If you would like to make a hot ASAP. Paulx1556 babe's day with 4 tlx, call Elisa at $For Sale$
WANTED 
634-2703 ... Married Stud Tixbook 
'89 Sentra Call after 5 pm TOP10REASONSTOCOME FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! 38,000 miles excel. cond. NEED TWO GA'S FOR @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# @273-3140 to see the Chicano Secret Servica a EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING service records $5490 really good comedy troupe BREAK TRIPS I SELL ONLY 8 call631-6414 MICHIGAN STATE Tues Sept 21 7:00 $3 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS will trade 2 PITT GA's for 2 FSU Will trade 1 USC stud for 1 Pitt 10. There are 3 of them. & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, CALL JOSE AT 634-2173 GA's. 233-5130. stud. or GA. Call Nicole @X1268 9. That means they're really only $1 JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800-apiece. 678-63861 100"/o pure cashmere $95 shawls, WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 8. They don't suck. 
$195 twin blankets, $250 queen FSU GAl Call Sean@ x1223 7. They're witty and insightful, with WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE 1-800-428-7825 X303. NEED MSU GA'S Need 6 MSU GAs. Will trade 2 mastery of the nuances of language LOOKING FOR MODELS TO ANGIE 273-5805 B.C. and/or $$$$. Call Mike at and wisdom uncanny for their POSE FOR POSTER8-N-CALEN­HAVE GA's EACH HM GM (800) 446-6060 ext.231. youth. DARS.THOSEINTERESTED MICHIGAN STATE STUDENTTIX 271-1681 6. They're pretty funny, too. CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN FOR SALE. WE HAVE THREE. !HEY! 5. What else is there to do on a 52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE YOU NEED SOME OR ALL. WILL $Need 2 stud. tix-any game$ FOR SALE Tuesday night? 1 OAM-6PM MON-FRI DEAL. CALL BRIAN X3043 $Katie 273-6324$ I need GA's for MSU and Florida 4 MSU GA'S. TOGETHER AT 4. It's rumored that one of them is 
St.ll -call Kathleen 273-8562. 25-YD LINE. CALL BILL AT named Raoul. 
HELP! 291-6216 3. What else have you done to cele­Yesterdays Food & Spirits, $$$Need 4 Pitt GA'sll NEED GA'S FOR MSU AND PITT. brate Hispanic Heritage month? Granger, IN, hiring for: servers, bar­For sale -3 tickets for Garth call Katie 273-6324$$$ JAY X1534 tenders, line cook. Exp. pre!. but Brooks. Oct. 9 (Sat.). Call 273-WILL BUY 1 EACH FSUIUSC OR not nee. for info call 272-7017 8859. WANTEDIIIIIII!!IIII TRADE OCT 9 UM-MSU THE 8-BALL POSSE-There it 
SELLING STUDENT BOOKLET 271-8689 (CAL) islllllll.. carpeting, new, bound 3-4 G. A.'s ASK FOR OLGA 4-1290 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­skyblue-10'x 11'-$90 Make money teaching basic con­dark pink-11' x 12'-$85 u.s.c. NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S All I need is an FSU student ticket. Happy 18th Birthday versational English abroad. Japan, Brian T @ 289-6648 october 23 (fall break) Tony x3327 Tim x1517 Laura Roberts! Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to $2000-$4000+ per month. Many 84 Buick Skyhawk, Reliable, call: I really need 4 USC G.A.s­Nedd 1 Pitt Ticket -GA or Student -welcome to the ND/SMC family provide room & board + other bene­$1450/best offer, 273-5231 6:30-2725 thanks! diane x4253 so that my little brother can attend fits. No previous training or teaching 9:00pm. the game. Will pay big bucks. Jim Love, Ryan certificate required. For more infor­$NEED$ NEED 3 MSU GAs x1865 mation call: (206)632-1146 ext. MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS CALL TOM x3492 
TICKETS
J5584 CALL JOHN AT X1227 SOPHOMORE CLASS WANTED: ONE (1) NO vs MICHI­Would really appreciate 1 USC 
I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL I NEED 2 PIT GAS GAN STATE $50 plus. Call (515) Student ticket. Call Phil x0549 BACK TO SCHOOL BASHIII SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, TIXS.272-6306 $$ 'rents are paying $$ 965-0512. EARN CASH & GO FREEl! I call jim at 273-5823 Free Refreshments! Student Travel Services is now hir­SURPRISES for the first 2501 ing campus reps. Call @BOQ-648-ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY I NEED 6 FLA ST. GA's. I HAVE$. NEED 2 PITT GA'S Uve Music! 4849. HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL FSU STU NEEDED$$$2448 CALL BRIAN AT 4-1772. I have $1 & 
JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. 2BCSTUDTIX BANDS INCLUDE: 
Trade MSU SEC 8 GA FOR SEC x2300 Emily, Bovine Solution, True Interested in broadcasting? 17 GA 634-1786 DESI North, Road Apples, and More ... NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE, NO's NEED G.A.'S-3 PITT, 4 USC, 4 4sale STANFORD 4-3322 only cable television show is FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe@ 1613. USC Stud. Ticket for sale -best MARRIED STU BOOKLET 4 SALE Today, (Friday, Sept. 17) from 5-7 looking for anchors, reporters, offer will get it. CALL 287 2528 p.m. at Stepan Field (if rain the directors, video photographers, Will give first-born son for four USC Call Kenya at x4341 or x4553 Stepan Center) and camera people. No tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob NEED PITT GA'S LARGE FAMILY DOES ANYONE NEED FSU experience necessary, just a love at 273-0620. WANTS TO SEE SIS IN BAND. G.A.'S? IF YOU DO CALL MATT of broadcasting! Call Chris x2309 CALL SHEILA x5609 or (614)459-AT X1629. I HAVE TIX TO SELL. if interested. NEED GA'S FOR USC,FSU & BC 0074 and when I asked Ritchie where 
WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. CALL NICK X1777 Mich. stadium, with the largest 272-7233. Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA REAL CHEAP! RT AIR SB­NCAA crowd ever, went-all he 
Need FSU tickets, stud or GA B'OSTON FEMALE 289-6750 could do was SMILE!!I ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fish­FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. Call Dave at 4-3507 eries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or 277-1659. NEED USC GA'S, WILL TRADE more per month on fishing vessels FOR BC TIX. CALL JIM @ 289-Need 1 MSU Stud Tix Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs for 2 Pitt HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY RACHEL! or in canneries. Many companies DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­6648. Chris 4-4022 or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545 provide transportation and room & ETS! 2 GAs for Mich. State, FSU, Best birthday wishes from the board. No experience necessary. and BC call: A. Raczkowski $$$$$$$ HELP! NEED 1 PITT GA I BEG YOU, PLEASE SELL YOUR Keenan Krew! (And the women who Male or Female. For more informa­(800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums X3650 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS TO live there.) Hope you get lots of tion call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 with jobs -will pay big $$$! ME, YOU KNOW YOU NEED TO Wanted 2 USC tickets will pay top stuff! 
FSU TIX NEEDED!!I!IIII STUDY! CINDY@ 273-0926 $.Call collect 206 462-7270. Ask CALL CRAIG @273-3942 for Don. Troy, Paul, Susan and Kt 
NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN PLEASEII Help! I need two tickets for the IRISH REPUBLIC T-SHIRT STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074 MSU game. need 2 michst. tix-call mike 233-PS Kt and Paul are 19 (still) new if possible, will pay bucks Need 2 Fla. St. GA's Call Jackie at 2507. 2387 PPS Good Luck Stage Managing! X4097 Have GA's to all Home Games & Best offer-call T J 232-5030 
Mich. Call232-7316 from 7-8 p.m. need:FSU,PITT STUD & PIT GA Have 1 MSU stud. 4 sale $$$$ HELP WANTEDIIIIIIIII $$$$ NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC BILL X4022 Chi-Chi x-0585 P. Sean Burke is skinny with no PART-TIME WORKERS at U.P. MATT @ 232-3870 spare tire around his waist Mall selling Western Wear. Flexible NEED 2 USC TICKETS I need MSU Student Tix Hours. Call 282-2800. CALL JULIE AT 284-5511 Dan 4-1788 MSU tix for sale ... call 4-1523 HEY LADIES: Watch out cause 
NEED 2 MSU GAs. CALL KERR I BOSKI'S backllll! Desperately need a ride to and from CARPENTER, AKA EDITH NEED 2-5 MICH. St. GAs. Will Cleveland for the weekend of Oct 2. NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL BUNKER, AT X2635. buy Help! I need 1 Pitt GA for my cute Rose take me I'm you'rsl Will help pay for gas. Call Phil HOME NO GAMES and/or trade. HAVE 2 PITT GAs. little bro who wants to see NO play\ x0549. CALL AARON X1868 NEED 2 MSU GAs X1786 DES! Raissa X4800. Call X4245 -Kristin Nocturne. Midnight . WSND 88.9 fm 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1993 
Coaches make easy transition from college to NFL 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 

Are NFL teams learning something by going back to school? 
Consider that nine of the 12 head coaches of last year's playoff teams had training as college coaches. Only 10 of the 28 men in charge of NFL clubs this season have not coached on the college level, and three of them -Bill Cowher, Bill Belichick and David Shula -nearly were young enough to be in college when they took over their teams. 
No longer is it certain that pro assis­tant coaches will move up to NFL head coaching jobs. Although nearly every current NFL head coach spent time as a coordinator with a pro team, in many cases those tenures were interrupted by 
Men 
cominued from page 24 

"We can't go up to Notre Dame and play a good game," said Evansville head coach Fred Schmalz. "We have to play a great game. We have to play well within ourselves." 
Friday's game against Michigan State will start at 
7:30 p.m., while Sunday's game against Evansville will start at 2:30 p.m. Both games are scheduled to be played at Alumni Field. 
Go Irish ... 

...Beat Spartans 
ND•USC PACKAGES 
• 
Game Ticket 

•
Hotd Roomin£xnh.Bend 

•Shuttle 
Bus 

•Post-game 
Dinner 


ADfor$225perperson 
~all!fiun~Nn:Thm: Cli>dl..at~andareavail­
:iW:duwgp.Andoty'Thnd, Ioc. 
DISCOUNT AIR FARES AVAILABLE TO ALL HOME GAMES 
• Away game tours also available 

AANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080 or 800-7 OOMERS 

years as a college coach before a return to the NFL. 
Jack Pardee was a success with the Redskins and Bears before moving to the University of Houston. Now the head man across town with the Oilers, Pardee has kept a strong program near the top of the AFC Central with the same run­and-shoot attack. 
"You try to be consistent, no matter what the level you coach at," Pardee says. "The principles of coaching are the same." 
Indeed, Parcells has found it easier at the pro level. 
"We don't have to schedule workouts around classes anymore," Pardee said when he was hired by the Oilers. "We can concentrate on football all the time and not have to worry about what they made in English or math. 
"I don't mind the pressure to win. It doesn't matter your address, if you don't have the players, it's just as fatal." 
Pardee, of course, had solid creden­tials in the pros. While he ran the Bears, they went from an also-ran to a playoff team and Walter Payton was drafted. At Washington, where he replaced his mentor, George Allen, Pardee was coach of the year in 1979. 
Jimmy Johnson had no pro resume. And when the Cowboys went 1-15 in their first season, the chuckles about his hiring turned to guffaws. 
While the Cowboys are off to an 0-2 start this year, nobody is laughing at Johnson's coaching. Not after a Super Bowl title. Not with the way teams are adopting many of Johnson's theories, 

Will your company grow as fast as you do? 
Almost every company's recruiting ad promises you rapid growth. But before making any decisions, ask them how fast they're growing. After all, you're going to have trouble moving up if your company isn't. 
Over the last five years, while economic conditions have stalled many organiza­
Andersen Consulting will be conducting interviews on Friday, October 1. 
Sign-up begins Monday, September 20. Please see the Career and Placement Services Office for details. 
Presentation: Thursday, September 30,7:00 pm-9:00pm Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center (JACC) Monogram Room 
+.wewa;w 
based on speed and situational substitu­tion. 
"I was told my Miami ideas wouldn't work in the NFL," Johnson said. "I found out you can't go by everything you're told about the NFL." 
Especially that Johnson's record at Oklahoma State and Miami would not translate to victories and championships in the NFL. Anyone as dedicated as Johnson has been finds a way to suc­ceed. 
"I want to be in control because I want to win," he says in his biography, "Inside the Helmet." "And in order to win, you've got to have a guy solidly in control of the team.... Some of my play­ers may hate my guts. But either way, I'll be in control. And we will win. The players understand that." 

tions, Andersen Consulting grew on the average of 20% per year. 
Compare that figure to any other firm you're con­sidering. It could be the difference between getting ahead. And banging your head. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 
~1993 Andersen Consulting. An equal opportunity employer. 
--~ ---------­
--------------------------~----~----~--------------------------------------·~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 17, 1993 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kt-vin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
Nc:ws Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of Tho Obsorver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Busin~ss Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
FRANK PIMENTEL 

HEARTS AND MINDS 

Clinton's tax on stnall business could create a big problem 
percent per year through 1996 
President Clinton's "deficit 
(according to the Office of reduction" plan is a recipe for Management and Budget). That disaster. While raising income figure, of course, includes huge taxes on small business substantive cuts in defense, (retroactively -the constitu­thus also including booms in tionality of which I think must social spending and entitle­be in some doubt, for the Con­ments. So the deficit will con­stitution guarantees us a repre­tinue to be huge, and the econ­sentative form of government, omy will be headed south. and the idea that a new Congress and President could We already had that; it was come in and legislate for peri­called the 1990 "budget deal," ods, before they were elected which earned President Bush seems to me to defy that con­his walking papers last year cept), which is the workhorse of and which Bush himself called American capitalism, it also the single biggest mistai.ce of his increases the top marginal rate presidency. Democrats tend to from 31 percent to 39.6 per­resist history's lessons, prefer­cent. These tax increases stifle ring to place class envy for economic growth. election's sake ahead of experi­
ence. 
The 1980s proved that mar­But there is one saving grace ginal tax rates could be cut and in this scenario. Because Re­revenues increased in the same publicans held fast and refused breath. For example, between to cave in, unanimously oppos­1981 and 1987 marginal tax ing this federal hijacking in rates went down under both chambers (while, also, President Reagan's demands contrary to Democratic flak, (most notably, the top marginal proposing a far more sensible rate collapsed from a whopping budget plan authored by Con­70 percent down to 28 percent) anything but "fair" as President indicate, contrary to what the nomics," but it is fundamentally gressman Kasich of Ohio}, and federal revenues increased Clinton is wont to say. Rather, Clinton administration utters, how capitalism works. If nasty blame (or kudos -doubtful ­42 percent. Budget deficits gen­they represent mandated chari­that in the 1980s the rich paid successful businesses goes un­but we all most hope) should fi­erally increased during this ty. But they also do not work. more taxes, the poor fewer, and der (read "the rich"), so to do nally be placed appropriately. period, however, because the Here again, statistics tell us the extremely poor got wealthi­all of the secretaries, truck dri­Democrat-majority Congress what we need to know. In 1981 er. Isn't that real equity? vers, and caterers who work for While Bill Clinton's term is 
legislated a corresponding 50 the top one percent of taxpay­them. That hurts all of us. still young, and he has many percent increase in spending. ers paid 17.6 percent of all fed­The bottom line is that upping To make matters worse, the political lifetimes left between eral taxes. By 1988 that figure tax rates often decreases rev­Clinton administration at­now and 1996, the term's tone While some may point out was up to 27.5 percent, a 56 enues by discouraging con­tempted to fool us by maintain­will be set by the impending correctly that many tax shelters percent increase. Moreover, sumption, which produces tax­ing that they were making failure of this single largest tax were eliminated during this pe­during the same period, the able income. Witness the luxury "courageous" budget "cuts." hike in American history. 
riod, the revenue increase re­bottom 50 percent of taxpayers tax that President Bush's The trouble is that those largely Democrats will be held ac­sulted not from loophole elimi­saw the share of taxes that they administration imposed which occur in what are referred to as countable, and perhaps Jack nation, but rather vigorous eco­paid tumble from 7.4 percent to ended up decimating the yacht­the "out years," the two years Kemp or a similar fiscal con­nomic activity which produced 5.7 percent, a 23 percent de­ing industry. Poor rich sailors, after Clinton's term ends. servative will finally get his more taxable income. Also con­cline. Finally, the poorest one­you say? Well, consider those Therefore, who among us really chance to revive Reaganomics. sider that a flatter tax more fifth of taxpayers saw their in­not so rich folks who build believe that those cuts will ever easily meets the plain fairness come (adjusted for inflation) yachts and now are out of occur? Frank Pimentel is a 1987 
test than does a stifling tax rate rise 15 percent between 1980 work. As for the mean time, spend­Notre Dame graduate and cur­riddled with holes. Indeed, and 1988. President Clinton may speak ing will continue upward (that's rently a third-year student in higher marginal tax rates are Taken together, these data derisively of "trickle down eco-right, upward) at a clip of 4.15 the Law School. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
AS J<ACJICAI--A CONC8PT A5 
~ATION MAY5et:M 70 SOMt: OF YOU, 1 58£3 NO OTHeR WAY 70 I<E5TORE 7Ht: UN!V&R­517Y'S 7RA[){TIONAL.. MISSION.. 
H~ 
/I.KJM/3/V 
Hm3-fXJN7 
HAV~IWY 
OTHeR 
CHOIC£! 
/ 
HOW'S 7HIJT, 
M/93? 
\ 
7H~ CtiTALa7 5AYS7HIS IS 7H~ fJ/lTb 
RAP8CAPI­
7AL-OF7H& 
WORUJ! 
/ ''It takes as much time and 

trouble to pull down a falsehood as to build up a truth." 
-Peter "Petey'' Latham 
~----­

r----------------------­
page 12 The Observer •ACCENT Friday, September 17, 1993 
• 
events 
Tom Deluca, master hypnotist, 9 p.m., Washington Hall, $3. Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk. 
Spartan Spike, volleyball tournament, Co-ree on 6 on 6, Stepan courts, 8 p.m. Women's soccer vs. Michigan State, 5 p.m., Alumni Field. Men's Soccer vs. Michigan State, 7:30p.m., Alumni Field. "Dave," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2 
music 
Oliver Syndrome, Havican Field, Saint Mary's College, 8-11 p.m., free with valid I.D. The Longfellows, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. Jo-Jo and the Blues Train, Gubi's Lounge, 9p.m. Glee Club open rehearsal, 4:45p.m., Crowley Music Hall. 
events 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, 
12:35 kick-off. Notre Dame in Review, 10:30 a.m., J.A.C.C. "Dave," Cushing Auditorium, 8 and 
10:30 p.m., $2. 

•lc 
The Bel Airs, Gubi's Lounge, 10 p.m. 
The Longfellows, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, alternative music, 9:30 p.m. 
Sister Chain and Temple Latino, Club 23, 9:30p.m. 
events 
Misa en Espanol, Breen-Phillips Chapel, 
11:30 p.m.. celebrant Padre Rich Warner 
University ITk East 
Undercover Blues 7:20, 9:20 
True Romance 7. 9:35 
The Firm 8 
Rising Sun 7, 9:45 

University Pn West 
Into the West 6:45, 9 
Real McCoy 7, 9:20 
Manhattan Murder Mystery 7, 9:20 
Hard Target 7:15,9:30 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

The name has become a very familiar one in the last year. Notre Dame graduate Rudy Ruettiger has placed his life story on the big screen -and many are wondering why and how he did it. Now we can hear Rudy's story straight from the source himself, and can understand why and how. 
The Observer: How would you define the "Rudy" story? 
Rudy: The Rudy story is about the grass roots of my family. The morals, the values and the discipline of my family shaped me. The story is also about pursuing your true dreams and not surrendering them, hope, perseverance and that your dreams can come true. 
The Observer: What is the core issue/value on which the movie focuses? 
Rudy: A lot of us are intimi­dated by people higher than us and people should know that fear can be overcome. The people higher than us have power and material things. We feel that we shouldn't have what they have ­well I stopped listening and said I could have what I wanted. I start­ed to listen to my feelings. 
I realized that I was not going to be a great athlete at Notre Dame. but I started to put myself around positive feelings. The story is a metaphor for life -the spiritual side came alive in me and the mentality came alive that yes I could do it -I could achieve my dreams. 
The Observer: How did you begin the process of turning your story into a screen play and ultimately a movie? 
Rudy: I had many different jobs, and while I worked I would daydream about how I got to Notre Dame and what I accom­plished there. Eventually I start­ed to write these thoughts down on paper. 
I showed these ideas to dif­ferent people and they were in­trigued and interested. The thought that maybe I could in­spire people if I make a movie and tell my story. The message of the story would be not to let fear paralyze what we can do. 
I kept moving forward and eventually my story became a story everyone wanted to hear. There are a million "Rudy's" out there and only one Joe Montana. At ND there are a lot pressures -economic, social, academic and how is it possible to cope when The actors portraying the 1975 Notr everything is happening at once Ruettiger opens nationwide and this is why I want this story . to inspire people. fnend. We wrote down 
215 of facts -and then met the 

Angelo Pizzo, who wrote the 
tial screen play.

The Observer: What was the 
I met him in a roundabprocess of making your story into way. I was standing in aa major motion picture? 
lobby telling lawyer friendRudy: I did a screen play with a 
After sacking the quarterback, Rudy (Sean Astin) is carried off the field by his teammates. 
~ i~) \ } t ~ j : t : . i ­


NOTRE DAME'S 
Bryant Young 
By Jenny Marten 
T
he activity can be as simple as walking or even standing in line. Whatever he does, Bryant Young commands attention. Attribute it to his quiet self confidence or his sculpted massiveness, but it can only be called presence. 
He has that special quality of presence that makes others look up to him and want to follow his lead. Whether on the field, at practice or in the class­room, an air of success emanates from the senior defensive lineman blessed with natural ability. 
What causes this immediate aspiration of others to his example is the unconscious recognition of his self-motivated work ethic. Never satisfied and always looking to the future, Young is dedicated to continuing to improve and keeping at the top of his game. 
see B.Y./ page 6 


Craig Thomas paces 
A look back at 1966 and The Biggest
the Spartan attack. Game of Them All. -see page 3 
-see page 7 

page 2 Friday, September 17, 1993 

on a scale of 1 to 5 QUARTERBACKS 
Miller is a three year starter who has pro­duced against the Irish 
RUNNING BACKS 
II 

Thomas may be the sec­ond best running back in the Big Ten behind Tyrone Wheatley 
RECEIVERS 
II 

Coleman is the gem of the group with big play potential 
0-UNE 
II 

Four starters return from a group that gave Notre Dame fits last year. 
D-UNE 
-
m. 

Hammonds only solid player in below-average group 
OLB's Frederickson and Christensen are decent but the inside is weak 
Wasylk and fellow safe­ty Manson supply good run support 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
tA.j~ ~ 

Kicker Stoyanovich and Coleman make this the team's best feature 
COACHING 
[!J 

Perles has had some hard times, but contin­ues to field a good defensive team 
FINAL SCORE 
!!! 

Have lost eight of last nine to Irish. It's not Irish luck. 
Thomas, Coleman add big play potential 
By JONATHAN JENSEN week. He completed 18-30 Associate Sports Editor passes for 191 yards and 2 TDs in the Spartans' 31-14 In year's past, when the win against Kansas. He Irish defense lined up threw for 231 yards in the against a Michigan State Irish's 52-31 win last sea-
offense, they have mn~r!ll!"".""' son. 
had to contend with the likes of Tico Duckett. Blake Ezor, Andre Rison and Cour­ney Hawkins. 
While this year's edition of the Spartan offense may not boast these types of big names, they do have some weapons that could give the Irish trouble if they fail to keep them in check. 
Senior quarterback Jim Miller is an experienced signal-caller who is the leading Big Ten returner in completion percentage, completing 122 of 191 passes. He is also the sec­ond leading returner in passing efficiency and total offense. 
"Jim Miller is a fine quarterback," commented Irish head coach Lou Holtz, "He played very well against us last year. 
"[He's] a very accurate passer who doesn't throw many interceptions, doesn't get sacked very much, has pretty good mobility, and this is his third year as a starter up there." 
Miller got ofT on the right foot in MSU's opening vic­tory against Kansas last On the offensive 
line, the Spartans 
return four 
starters, including 
tackles Shane 
Hannah (6-5, 321) 
and Brian De-Marco (6-7, 317). "I think that their offensive line is always big and strong and they just dominated Kansas," noted Holtz. 
This solid group will try to open holes for explosive tailback Craig Thomas, who carried 155 times for 887 yards in 1992 despite sharing time with All-Big Ten performer Tico Duckett last season. Thomas victimized the Irish for 146 yards and two TDs on 21 carries last year and ended up av­eraging 5.7 yards a carry. 
Against Kansas, Thomas showed why he will com­pete with Michigan tail­back Tyrone Wheatley for Big Ten accolades this year by running over the Jayhawk defense for 157 yards on 25 carries. 
"They've run the ball very, very well. In Thomas they have an outstanding tailback," said Holtz, "He's a hard, physical runner. He's really a big-time back, make no exception 

Photo Courtesy of Michigan State Sports Information Lou Holtz called Mill Coleman the most dangerous receiver the Irish will face this season. 
about it." 

The prime of the MSU receiving corps is junior playmaker Mill Coleman, who also is dangerous as a kick returner. Coleman caught a team-high 37 passes last year for 586 yards, and registered a career day against the Jayhawks last week, pulling in 8 catches for a total of 112 yards. 
"He's got an outstanding receiver in Coleman... I don't know if we'll face one single receiver that is any more dangerous than Mill Coleman," said Holtz, "He's not the only receiver they have by any stretch of the imagination but he's a guy that they go to more that anybody else." 
Similar to the Michigan offense, the Spartans can hurt you in many ways. The Irish will first and foremost have to control Thomas. In last week's game, the Irish "held" Michigan's Wheatley to 146 yards, but his power­ful bursts brought the Wolverines back into the ballgame. 
If the Irish can keep Thomas to under 100 yards and the secondary can continue to terrorize opposing quarterbacks and receivers they should be able to control the MSU offense. 
Spartan defense is typical Perles 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz describes this year's Michigan State defense as a typical George Perles­coached defense. Much like the renowned "Steel Curtain" he led dur­ing the Pittsburgh Steeler dynasty, Perles' defenses are stingy, tough against the run, and always very physical. 
However, no matter how physi­cal the Spartans are this year, it looks as if they might lack the raw talent that characterizes a top-notch Spartan defense. They return eight starters from a defense that was ranked seventh in the Big Ten and gave up 509 yards of total offense to the Irish last year. 
But as always, Holtz guards against a letdown against a lesser defensive football team. 
"Once you've seen one Michigan State George Perles defense you've seen them all," said Holtz. "They do the same thing, they play physical and they're just really hard to run the ball on...I think with just one or two exceptions have we ever been able to run the ball against Mich State." 
However, there are many question marks in the MSU defense, starting with the linebacking crew. The team's third leading tackler against Kansas was true freshman Reggie Garnett, who splits time at middle linebacker with sophomore Greg Anderson. Gone are the Dixon Edwards and Percy Snow-type linebackers that usually lead the Spartans. 
· . ·· 
Photo Courtesy of Michigan Stale Sports Information Free safety Steve Wasylk finished 11th in the Big Ten in tackles in 1992. 
"I think that their middle lineback­ers are both good, Greg Anderson or Garnett," stated Holtz, "He is very impressive as a freshman, he has a natural nose for the ball and runs very well." 
The outside linebackers are solid, as senior Rob Frederickson and junior Matt Christensen return on the weak and strong sides, respec­tively. Frederickson is a preseason second-team All-Big Ten selection who chalked up 102 tackles in 1992, good enough for 13th in the Big Ten. 

Christensen, who picked off two passes last year, begins his third year as a starter. 
The defensive line is a weak spot for the Spartans, as they return two starters on the left side in tackle Aaron Jackson and end Juan Hammonds. Jackson notched seven tackles and a sack in last week's win over Kansas. Sophomore Yakini Allen, the team's current leading tackler with nine, and senior Rich Glover man the right side. 
The bright spot in the MSU defense is senior free safety Steve Wasylk, who is a two-time Academic All­American. Wasylk finished 11th in the Big Ten in tackles last year and has eight this season. Junior strong safety Damian Manson is also a top performer, while senior Myron Bell and junior Stan Callender are the corners. 
"Defensively it's typical Michigan State," reiterated Holtz, "They held Kansas to 114 yards rushing and just sort of dominated the game. They forced three interceptions and a cou­ple of fumbles." 
These types of turnovers are what won the game for both the Spartans and the Irish last week, and a turnover-free Irish offense is once again a key to this week's game. With the Irish's big play receivers like Lake Dawson and Mike Miller and Kevin McDougal's nose for the end zone, turnovers are about the only thing that could stop the Irish on Saturday. 
Holtz had stated that he is commit­ted to using more running backs this weekend to save wear-and-tear on Lee Becton and Ray Zellars, so look for freshmen Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer to get some carries at the tailback spot, particularly if the game gets out of hand. 
QUARTERBACKS 
Ill 
McDougal is the new star for the Irish, but needs to be consistently good 
RUNNING BACKS 
to~ ~ 
Becton looks solid, Zellars is fading, depth is needed at both spots 
RECEIVERS 
l.l:!'"~
L2.1 
Showed last week that they deserve more respect 
0-LINE 

After Zataveski and Leahy's performance the group is a solid "4" 

The best the Irish have seen in a while, still need to pressure QB more 
LINEBACKERS 
~1c;:~ 
12.1 
Goheen is a solid replacement, Wynn and Bereich continue to impress 
SECONDARY 
l!J 
Sterling play against Michigan heightens big­play ability 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
l.!J 
Miller is improving but both phases of kicking game lack consistency and coverage is weak 
COACHING 
l!] 
Holtz is a god. He proves it rime and time again 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
All areas seem to be improving, but Irish need to avoid letdown after big win. 


Friday, September 17, 1993 page 3 

ThoiDas big play back for Michigan State 
By KEVIN SHAW State News Sports Writer 
The muscles in Craig Thomas' stomach were throbbing, beg­ging for a breather; a chance to stretch, relax and return to a comfortable state. 
His stomach wasn't the only part of his body aching and writhing with exhaustion. In the heat of running 10 40-yard sprints in 90-degree weather, his ankles, feet, arms and legs all needed a chance to cool down. 
But Thomas wasn't finished. His mind told him he should do more; the question was whether his.---------_;_.-......:~­body would let him. 
Somehow it 
6'0" 1941bs did. He crouched 
1992STATS: 
done, he had
into his three-
Second tearti all-Big Ten aver­
run another 
~ oint .stance, 
aged 5.7 yards a carry, and 
JUSt hke he 
. _c. . ,,• . h' 
would do 
C01ueren~l1lll1S mg 
dowus with 15 yards for each
against U-M. 
Ohio State, or any other Big Ten opponent during the season. The snap count was two, and he was ofT. 
Dashing. Darting. Eluding imaginary tacklers in his mind. Then there was nothing left but open field. Touchdown! 
Thomas went through the procedure again. And again. And again. By the time he was 
beat michigan state 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 31 Michigan State 7 
~-------~r-------,r-------,
ILate Night Speci'4 I II Party Pack I I 9 p.m.-close I I 2.. 14" Large I I 4--14" Large I 1.. 14'~ Larg.e II 1Topping Pizzas II 1 Topping 1 I 1 Topp~~g Ptzza I I $1195 1 1 Piz~fs 1 1 
I $5 I I +Tax I I $22-+Tax I
+Tax 

I Additional Toppings .95~ each I Additional Toppings 95¢ each ....I I Additional Toppmgs .95¢ each...,. I
~-~

... _______ ... _______ ... 
Not Valid With Any Other Coupon Not Valid With Any Other Coupon 
.J I .J I 
Fast • Hot 

-
The Most Popular Number anCampus! 
jaunt. 
The work ethic of the 6-foot, 194-pound Pennsylvania native has always been demanding. Thomas has never been given anything. He has had to work twice as hard to get what he deserves; that is a chance to prove his critics wrong again. 
Who is Craig Thomas? 
Not many people knew of 

Photo Courtesy of Michigan State Sports lnfonnation 

Craig Thomas is the next in a long line of standout Spartan running backs. 
Thomas last year while he worked as a backup for Spartan notable Tico Duckett. But the opportunities were there for Thomas, and he took full advantage of them. 
The result was 15 touch­downs; 887 yards gained in only 155 carries, an impressive 
5.7 yards-per-attempt ratio ­all as a backup. 
Thomas never thought about giving up the sport he grew up playing. Ever since age 6, he had admired pro greats like Tony Dorsett and Walter 


~ 
' 
Payton, hoping someday to act out their moves on his own football stage. 
Plus, he couldn't tell his fami­ly that he wanted to quit, he says. His grandfather, holding two jobs for more than 35 years and never missing one day of work, set the example of hard work for Thomas early in life. 
''I've never been the type of person to give up something I believe in," he says. "You can play and be a success as long as you believe in yourself. But the minute you stop believing in yourself, you've lost." 
What will probably be most remembered about Thomas, the identical circumstances against Central Michigan University and the University of Illinois last year -the even leaps over the goal line, the precise hits by the opponent, the loose balls, the turnovers. 
"No one felt worse than I did," Thomas says when remembering the fateful con­tests. "You feel 100 times worse than anybody can feel for you." 
It may have taken him longer than expected, but now the spotlight has fallen on Thomas, and he says he certainly won't waste his opportunity. 
"Nothing worth having is eas­ily achieved," Thomas says. "I believe it, because I'm living proof." 
HOURS M...Th --11:00 a.m... 1:00 a.m. Fri...Sat .-11:00 a.m... 3:00a.m. Sun .-Noon ... 1:00 a.m. 
Others To Watch 

MILL COLEMAN Had eight catches for 112 yards last week against Kansas 

Second leading retuner in total offense and completion percentage in the Big Ten 

STEVE WASYLK 
wo-time first team Academic All-American, team's second leading tackler in 1992 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday , September 17, 1993 

SPARTANS 
MICHIGAN STATE SPARTANS 1993 ROSTER 
WR  6-1  220 Jr.  44 S. Small  FB  5-9  220 Sr.  
2 5111!111 Bllmlil  PK  6-3  192 So.  45 M. Christensen  LB  6-4  235 Jr.  
2 R. Shurelds  FS  6-2  180 So.  47 Scott Greene  FB  5-11 217 Jr.  
3t II ller 3 *'hle!Onl'l!f4 Dam1111 fliili;l  DB P QB  6-3 6-4 6-5  190 Sr. 190 Fr. 195 Fr.  48 Corey Baker 49 Brice Abrams 51 Terry HaiWY  LB FB LB  6-0 6-1 6-2  248 Sr. 254 Sr. 225 So.  
4 A. Lundprd  WR  5-11192 So.  51  Robert Ribby  C  6-0  219 Sr.  
5 Sheldon Thomas  DB  5-11185  Fr.  52 Matt Beard  C  6-2  247 So.  
6 MiiiColeman  FLB  5-10168  Sr.  52 M. Vorkapich  LB  6-3  195 Sr.  
7 Britton Crates  QB  6-2  181 Jr.  53 Dale Person  DT  6-3  276 Jr.  
8 N. Outlaw  WR  5-10 160 Jr.  54 Tyrone Gartand  LB  6-0  220 Fr.  
9 Todd Scbultz  QB  6-4  190 Fr.  55 Richard Glover  DE  6-3  241 Sr.  
tfJ B. Stoyanovich  PK  5-10 191  Sr.  56 K. Cameron  DE  6-5  243 So.  
10 A. Folino  DB  5-10 146 Jr.  57 M. Birchmeier  C  6-3  275 Sr.  
11  H. Tnplett  CB  5-9  167 Jr.  57 Jason Moses  LB  5-11 215  So.  
12 D.Mart1n  CB  5-9  180 Jr.  58 ZebJones  DT  6-1  243 Sr.  
13 D. Mason  WR  5-11180 Fr.  59 Kerry Mitchell  LS  6-2  226 Sr.  
14 Cedric SM!old  WR  6-2  185 Fr.  60 Robert Denton  OGT 6-5  316 Jr.  
14 Mike Slslo  DB  6-1  195 Jr.  61  Brett Lorius  OG  6-4  317 Sr.  
16 Jim Miller  OB  6-4  208 Sr.  62 Brtan Mosallam  OG  6-2  274 So.  
16 Marlafllo w.  WR  6-1  185 So.  62 C. Bridgeman  DT  6-1  263 Sr.  
17 Nigea Carter  WR  6-3  180 Fr.  63 S. Hannah  OT  6-5  321 Sr.  
1 8 Marvin Wright  DBB 6-1  205 Fr.  64 Jason Eslinger  OG  6-5  265 Sr.  
1 8 Brian Manton  WR  6-1  185 Jr.  65 Dave Mudge  OL  6-7  275 Fr.  
19 Luke Bencie  QB  6-3  205 Jr.  66 Colin Cronin  OG  6-7  285 Sr.  
20 Octallis Long  WRB5-11170  Fr.  67 RobertMcCrea  DT  6-0  252 So.  
ll Pl'lil Baron  WR  6-0  191 So.  68 J. Crawford  OG  6-3  273 So.  
21  H. "FI\ornpson  TB  5-11190 Jr.  69 T. Popovski  OT  6-4  277 Jr.  
22 Crwg Met  P  6-2  210 Jr.  70 Dave Kehr  OL  6-6  288 So.  
22 RQIP Garnett  LB  6-2  220 Fr.  71  Kevin Boron  DE  6-6  248 Sr.  
23 YakiniAI!en  DT  6-2  272 So.  71  Rob Harden  OL  6-3  237 Jr.  
24 MymnEIIII  CB  6-1  203 Sr.  72 Don Walker  OL  6-3  310 Fr.  
25 R. Jacison  LB  6-3  193 Sr.  73 Scott Shaw  bL  6-4  285 Fr.  
2E Mart:Benaud  TB  5-11175 Fr.  74 Monty Brown  OT  6-5  299 Jr.  
270.~  TB  5-9  181 Jr.  75 Aaron Jackson  DT  6-4  269 Sr.  
2.7 rooy Tunney  DB  6-1  180 Sr.  76 Flozell Adams  OT  6-6  275 Fr.  
28 DHa&elilacht  DB  6-2  185 Fr.  77 Joel Sinclair  OL  6-4  318 So.  
2!S~  CB  6-1  193 Jr.  79 Brian DeMarco  OT  6-7  316 Sr.  
29 Jatl Sd1IBIII  WR  6-1  203 Jr.  79 David Reese  DL  6-4  260 So.  
30 'lOOii Rusllatlt  DB  5-10 184  Sr.  80 Jay Greene  TE  6-3  280 Sr.  
~  Darnlln M.mson  SS  6-2  202 Jr.  81  Jason Glick  TE  6-6  245 Jr.  
32A.l'iitrd  TB  6-Q  190 Fr.  81  Brian Howard  FL  5-10176 Sr.  
33 G!!g Horvath  DB  5·9  168 So.  82 Delrico Simons  TE  6-4  242 So.  
33 CraigThumas  TB  6-0  194 Sr.  83 R. Fredrickson  LB  6-3  236 Sr.  
34Gr~  LB  6-0  219 Jr.  84 Gary Kuhn  LB  6-4  215 So  
3!i lkian f:cldll  DB  6-2  185 Fr.  86 Todd Feeney  TE  6-4  252 So.  
36~  SS  5-11176 Fr.  87 John Dignan  LB  6-4  226 Sr.  
37 511\'&Wasylk  FS  6-1  197 Sr.  88 Chris Salanl  P  6·1  219 So.  
37 WHile Mer(lllll  WR  5-11180 So.  B9JuanHammonds  DE  6-3  241 Sr.  
3B Mw'Oral  SS  5-11190 So.  89 Robert Gardner  TE  6-3  203 Jr.  
J91(Siansbery  CB  5-10 173 Sr.  91  Brett Organek  DE  6-5  270 So.  
40 Brad Costello  KB  6-2  220 Fr.  92 Robert McBride  DT  6-2  281 Jr.  
40 Erie v.w.ns  LB  6-1  230 Sr.  93 Trey Sartin  DL  6-7  240 Fr.  
41  S\Mlioknan  'HI  6-0  219 So.  94 Bob Organ  TE  6-3  265 Jr.  
41  Branl(elley  lB  6-3  215 Jr.  96 Chris Smtlh  DL  6-3  245 So.  
42 TOlil P8lrloQ  lB  6-4  225 So.  96 Dan Cantrell  TE  6-3  243 Jr.  
42 V"-1101~  FB  5'9  197 Jr.  97 Orion Hayes  DE  6-4  268 Jr.  
43 Robed Dozier  FB  6-0  220 So.  98 Josh Freeman  OL  6-6  235 Fr.  
43llcl ...  LBf 6-4  220 Fr.  

Tho Observer/Brendan Rogan 
Lori.ul 
MilJat Malk Biefimeter Colin Cronin Shane Hannah MIMColeman Napolean Outlaw Brice Abrams Craig Thomas 
.II' 
DEFENSE 
George P 


year at Michigan State Career Records: Overall 62-50-4, all at Michigan State 3-3 in Bowl Games; vs. 2-8 vs Notre Dame 
Previous Coaching Experience: Pittsburg Steelers; six years as defensive line coach (1972-78) Defensive Coordinator in 1978 and Assistant Head Coach in 1979. 1960 graduate of Michigan State, played under Duffy Daugherty. 
Career Highlights: Beat Southern Cal 20-17 in 1988 Rose Bowl. In 1987 led the Spartans to first Big Ten title since 1978, was named Big Ten and national coach of the year for his efforts. 
-----1993 Statistics 
RUSHING 

Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  
Thomas  143.0  25  143  5.7  1  19  
Goulboume  84.0  15  84  5.6  0  21  
Thompson  16.0  2  16  8.0  0  14  
Holman  2.0  2  2.0  0  2  
PASSING  
Rating  CIA/I  Pet  Yds  TO  Lg  
Miller  128.8  1813011  60.0  191  2  21  
RECEIVING  
No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  
Coleman  8  112  14.0  0  21  
Outlaw  3  25  8.3  1  8  
Greene  3  21  7.0  1  10  
Muhammad  2  25  12.5  0  18  
Abrams  2  8  4.0  0  5  

FIELD GOALS 
17-39 40-49 50+ Lg Stoyanovich 0-0 0-0 1-1 50 
PUNTING 
No Avg Lg Salani 3 30.0 37 
INTERCEPTIONS 
No Fredrickson 1 Manson 1 Callender 1  Yds 47 5 0  TO 0 1 0  Lg 47 5 0  
DEFENSE  

Allen Wasylk Gamett Anderson Jackson Fredrickson Christensen Hammonds Bell Callender Manson Glover Baker Wright Echols Greene Triplett Person Shurelds 

Sept. 11 Sept. 18 
Sept.~~ 
Oct. g, Oct. 1$ Oct. 2~ Oct. 3(¥ 
1

Nov.j/ Nov. 13 Nov. 27 Dec. 4 
ALL-PURPOSE  
Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  
Thomas  143  0  0  143  143.0  
Coleman  0  112  6  118  118.0  
Goulbourne  84  0  0  84  84.0  
Holman  2  0  46  48  48.0  
Outlaw  0  25  0  25  25.0  
Muhammad  0  25  0  25  25.0  
Greene  0  21  0  21  21.0  
Thompson  16  0  0  16  16.0  
Abrams  0  8  0  8  8.0  
Miller  ·5  0  0  -5  -5.0  
SCORING SUMMARY  

Michigan State Opponents 

1993 MICHIGAN STATE SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
KANSAS 31,.14 at Not(eDame .. /1:35 et.mJ\~ Mr6iiGAN · 1:05 'M~HluAN 1:05 1f<lt OJ;Iio State 3:30 / IOWA ~1:05 
·  at lridlana  2:00  
NORlliWES:rERtt  1:05  
at PurdUe  1:00  
PENN STATE  12:00  
Wisconsin at Tokyo  10:00  

2 3 4 T 7 7 7 10 31 0 2 6 6 14 
SCORING 
-PAT­

TO 2pt 1pt FG Stoyanovich 0 0 4 1 Outlaw 1 0 0 0 Manson 0 0 0 Thomas 0 0 0 Greene 0 0 0 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
No Avg TO Holman 2 23.0 0 
PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TO Coleman 2 3.0 0 
TEAM STATISTICS 
T  A  Tot  PBU  Sacks  MSU  OPP  
5  4  9  0  0  First Downs  24  18  
6  2  8  0  0  by rushing  15  7  
6  1  7  0  0  by passing  8  10  
6  1  7  0  1  by penalty  1  1  
5  2  7  1  1  Total yardage  431  265  
4  3  7  0  0  Offensive plays  75  74  
3  3  6  0  0  Avg. yards per play  5.8  3.6  
4  1  5  0  1  Total yards I game  431  265  
3  2  5  0  0  Rushing yards  240  114  
3  0  3  0  0  Rushing plays  45  37  
3  0  3  1  0  Rushing yards I game  240  114  
2  1  3  1  0  Passing yards  191  151  
2  0  2  0  0  Passes completed  18  18  
1  1  2  0  0  Passes attempted  30  37  
1  1  2  0  0  Passes intercepted  1  3  
1  1  2  0  0  Passing yards I game  191  151  
1  0  1  0  0  Fumbles -fumbles lost  2-1  2-2  
1  0  1  0  0  Penalties ­penalty yards  8-76  5-42  
0  1  1  0  0  3rd down conversions  7-14  7-18  
percentage  50.0  38.9  
4th down conversions  NA  NA  
percentage  NA  NA  

----The History of the Series---­
The Last Time: 

Notre Dame 52, Michigan 31 Coming off a dissapointing tie to Michigan the week before, the Irish offense took their anger out on an over­matched Spartan defense. Thirty-eight first half points, came mostly by the arm of Rick Mirer who fin­
ished the day with 260 yards and threw for three touchdowns. Receiver Lake ..... 
Dawson caught five passes for 126-yards. T" k tt
0

The Irish defense played well below teo uc e expectations as Craig Thomas and Tico Duckett combined for over 200-yards rushing. Quarterback Jim Miller passed for 231 yards completing 23 of 41 attempts. 
The Records: 
Notre Dame leads 39-18-1 First Game: 1887 
{UM 8, ND 0) Last ND Win: 1992 {52-31) Last MSU Win: 1986 {20-15) . Longest Series Streaks: 
ND-8 (1897-1909) 

MSU-8 (1955-1963) At Notre Dame Stadium: Notre Dame leads series 14­7 
--------~----------~-------------------~~--­
Friday, September 17, 1993 
The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA 

FIGHTING 

Lou Holtz 

Seventh year at Notre Dame. 
Records at Notre Dame: Overall68-18-1; at Home 34-7­1; on the Road 34-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall 183-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; vs. Michigan State 7-4. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 sea­sons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset No. 3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. Topped No. 3 Michigan last weekend. 
1993 Statistics 
RUSHING  ALL-PURPOSE  
Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  
69.0  33  138  4.2  0  15  Miller  0  80  142  222  111.0  
42.5  26  85  3.3  1  10  Becton  138  14  0  152  76.0  
25.0  14  50  3.6  2  43  Zellars  85  19  0  104  52.0  
13.5  7  27  3.9  0  21  C. Johnson  0  90  0  90  45.0  
Dawson  8  75  0  83  41.5  
PASSING  Mayes  0  76  0  76  38.0  
McDougal  50  0  0  50  25.0  
Rating  C/A/1  Pet  Yds  TO  Lg  Kinder  27  0  0  27  13.5  
161.4  1812910  62.1  343  0  50  Davis  8  0  0  8  4.0  
130.8  31310  100  11  0  11  Farmer  4  0  0  4  4.0  
RECEIVING  Burris  6  0  0  6  3.0  
No 5  Yds 19  Avg 3.8  TO 0  Lg 16  SCORING SUMMARY  
4  90  22.5  0  43  1  2  3  4  T  
4  75  18.8  0  32  Notre Dame  17  14  13  10  54  
3 80 26.7 0 50 Opponents 3 76 25.3 0 42 


FIELD GOALS 
17-39 40-49 50+ Lg 4-4 0-1 0-0 29 

DEFENSE 
T A Tot Young 15 5 20 Magee 10 4 14 Hamilton 9 5 14 Lane 13 0 13 Bereich 9 3 12 Goheen 7 5 12 Covington 10 1 11 B. Taylor 10 1 11 Gibson 8 3 11 Burris 6 3 9 Flanigan 6 2 8 Wynn 4 1 5 Knight 2 1 3 Peterson 2 0 2 Sample 2 0 2 Zellars 1 0 1 Clark 1 0 1 Berry 1 0 1 Cobbins 1 0 1 Saddler 0 1 1 
1993 NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
3 13 6 13 35 
SCORING 
-PAT· 
TO 2pt 1pt FG Pts Pendergast 0 0 6 4 18 McDougal 2 0 0 0 12 Burris 0 0 0 6 Miller 0 0 0 6 Zellars 0 0 0 6 Bereich 0 0 0 6 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
No Avg TO Lg Miller 4 16.3 0 20 
PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TO Lg Miller 4 19.2 1 56 

TEAM STATISTICS 
ND Opp 

PBU Sacks First Downs 36 40 0 3.0 by rushing 18 15 2 0.0 by passing 15 22 0 0.0 by penalty 3 3 2 0.0 Total yardage 679 721 0 0.0 Offensive plays 124 140 
0 
0.5 Avg. yards per play 5.48 5.15 

2 
0.0 Total yards I game 339.5 360.5 2 1.0 Rushing yards 325 232 0 0.5 Rushing plays 92 68 

3 
0.0 Rushing yards I game 162.5 116.0 0 1.0 Passing yards 354 489 0 0.0 Passes completed 21 45 0 1.0 Passes attempted 32 72 0 0.0 Passes intercepted 0 4 

0 
0.0 Passing yards I game 1n.o 244.5 

0 
0.0 Fumbles -fumbles lost 1 • 1 2 ·1 0 0.0 Penalties -penalty yards 12-101 14·120 0 0.0 3rd down conversions 1D-25 14-29 0 0.0 percentage 40.0 48.3 0 0.0 4th down conversions 0·1 2-3 


percentage 0.0 66.7 
----NOTRE DAME STADIUM---­
Built in 1930 
Capacity: 59, 075 
Largest Crowd: 
61, 296 (1962) 
ND's Stadium Record: 
235-67-5 
One of the most feared and respected landmarks in football history, Notre Dame Stadium has been the home of more National Champions than any other stadium in col­lege football. 

NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH 1993 ROSTER 
1. 
Derrick Mayes SE 6-1 205 So. 45 . Jeff Kilburg LB 6·4 250 Fr. 

2. 
Dan Farrell Fl 6·0 164 Jr. 45 . John Lynch WR 6·2 179 So 


2. 
LeShane Saddler FS 5·11194 Sr. 46 . Dan McConnell FL 5-1 0175 So. 

3. 
Ron Powlus QB 6·4 210 Fr. 47. Pete Bereich LB 6-2 237 Sr. 

4. 
Lee Becton TB 6-D 190 Jr. 48. Renaldo Wynn DE 6-3 230 So 

5. 
Paul Failla OB 6·2 193 Jr. 49. A. Peterson LB 6-0 223 Sr. 

6. 
Mike Miller Fl 5·7 157 Jr. 50. Greg Stec C 6-2 250 Jr. 

7. 
Dean Lytle FB 6·3 240 Sr. 51. Melvin Dansby LB 6·4 250 Fr. 


B. Clint Johnson SE 5·8 180 Sr. 52. G. Holden DT 6-4 245 Jr. 
9. 
Jeff Burris FS 6-D 204 Sr. 53 . Jim Kordas OG 6·5 271 Jr. 

10. 
Adrian Jarrell FL 6·0 194 Sr. 54. Justin Goheen LB 6·2 226 Jr. 


11 . Tom Krug QB 6-5 210 Fr. 55. Oliver Gibson NT 6·3 275 Sr. 
11. 
Tom MacDonald SS 6-D 189 Jr. 56. S. Armbruster C 6-D 205 Jr. 

12. 
K. Pendergast K 5·10168 Sr. 56. Huntley Bakich DE 6·2 203 Jr. 

13. 
Brian Ford K 6-4 190 Fr. 57. R. Kaczenski TE 6·4 240 Fr. 

14. 
Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 170 Fr. 57. JosephAdent LB 5-11200 So. 


14. 
Colin Rittgers P 6·2 21 0 So 58. Jeremy Nau DE 6·4 234 Jr. 

15. 
Kevin McDougal QB 6-2 194 Sr. 59. Lance Johnson C 6·1 265 Sr. 

16. 
Chris Parenti QB 6-1. 193 Sr. 60. Bert Berry LB 6·4 230 Fr. 


16. 
Brian Perry DB 6·1 205 Fr. 61. Tim Ruddy C 6-3 286 Sr. 

17. 
Brian Magee SS 5·10199 So. 62. M. McCullough OG 6·3 274 So 


16 . Wade Smith QB 6·3 178 So. 63. Jason Beckwith OG 6·2 242 Sr. 
19. 
Anthony Swiney DB 5·111 60 Fr. 64. Steve Misetic OG 6·5 266 S 

20. 
M. Andrzejewski SS 5·7 163 Jr. 65. Lyron Cobbins LB 6-2 230 Fr. 


20. 
Cikai Champion WR5·11170 Fr. 66. Todd Norman OT 6·6 297 Sr. 

21. 
Bobby Taylor FS 6-3 191 So. 67. Mark Zataveski OG 6-6 295 Jr. 

22. 
Rob Leonard KP 6-1 186 Sr. 68. Jeff Riney OG 6·5 268 Jr. 


22. Shawn Wooden CB 5-11187 Jr. 69. David Quist DT 6-5 248 So. 
23 . Brian Baker SE 5-10179 Sr. 70. Mike McGlinn OT 6-6 285 Sr. 
24. 
C. Stafford FL 5·10182 Jr. 71. Herbert Gibson OT 6·5 289 Jr. 

25. 
Brent Boznanski KP 6·3 174 Sr. 72. Ryan Leahy OT 6-4 290 Jr. 


25. 
Randy Kinder TB 6·1 205 Fr. 73. Mike Doughty OL 6·8 255 Fr. 

26. 
Drew Marsh K 6-1 187 Sr. 74. Will Lyell OG 6·5 263 So. 


26. 
Mark Monahan DB 6·0 175 So. 75. Aaron Taylor OT 6-4 299 Sr. 

27. 
Tracy Graham CB 5·10197 Jr. 76. Jeremy Akers OT 6·5 272 So 


26. Ron Hardin FB 6·2 227 Fr. 77. Dusty Zeigler OT 6-6 240 So. 
29. 
John Covington SS 6·1 211 Sr. 78. Jordan Halter OT 6·7 296 Sr. 

30. 
Marc Edwards FB 6·2 220 Fr. 79. Chris Kurpeikis OL 6·7 290 Fr. 


31 . Robert Farmer TB 6·1 215 Fr. 80. Oscar McBride TE 6-5 251 Sr. 
32. 
Willie Clark CB 5·10161 Sr. 81. Rich Sauget TE 6-4 218 Jr. 

33. 
Greg Lane CB 5-9 180 Sr. 82. Joe Carroll WR 5·9 160 Jr. 

34. 
Brian Meter CB 5·7 152 Sr. 85. Robert Hughes TE 6-7 266 Sr. 


34. 
Ray Zellars FB 5-11218 Jr. 86. Ben Foos DT 6·4 226 So. 

35. 
Tim Klusas TB 5·8 166 Jr. 87. Lake Dawson SE 6·1 202 Sr. 


35. Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So. 88 . Leon Wallace TE 6-3 268 
So 
36. 
Jeremy Sample LB 5·n 218 Jr. 89. John Kouris TE 6·3 218 

37. 
Travis Davis TB 6-D 192 Jr. 90 . Brian Hamilton DE 6-3 275 Sr. 

38. 
Rick Lozano FB 5·10 189 Sr; 91. Darnell Smith DE 6·5 240 Fr. 


38. 
Sim Stokes DB 6·2 200 Fr. 92 . John Taliaferro DT 6·3 261 Jr. 

39. 
Kinnon Tatum DB 6·1 195 Fr. 93. Paul Grasmanis OT 6·3 265 


39. Marcus Thome lB 6·0 215 So. 94. Reggie Fleurima OT 6·3 262 Jr. 
40 . Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 207 So. 95 . Chris Clevenger DE 6-7 245 Fr. 
41. 
Joe Sabey ..18 6·2 218 So. 96 . Thomas Knight DE 6-4 231 So. 

42. 
Mike Frascogna · WR 5·8 155 Jr. 96. S. Schroffner K 5·9 160 Hr, 


42. 
Alton Malden DE 6-4 260 So. 97. Bryant Young DT 6·3 277 Sr. 

43. 
Bill Wagasy LB 6·2 224 So. 98. P. Chryplewicz TE 6·5 233 Sa. 

44. 
Jim Flanigan NT 6·2 276 Sr. 99. Cliff Stroud DT 6-3 ¥4 So. 


DemckMayeslee Becton 
Rayz~nars 

page 6 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, September 17, 1993 
COVER STORY 


Go for the 
BIG PLAY ... Call 
DOMINO'S 
Today! 
B.Y. 
continued from page 1 

Assistant head coach Mike Trgovac. recognizing Young's tremendous natural talent and seeing his dedication every day, knows why he is looked up to by his teammates. 
"There are a lot of football players out there who just play on natural ability. He does that, but he goes a step further. He's making himself into a great football player by his work habits. He studies the game. He doesn't line up on Saturday and say okay let's go. It's a whole week preparation for him," explained Trgovac. 
At practice, Young is an attentive stu­dent of the game taking instruction from Trgovac and applying that instruction in the drills. Once again, his presence motivates those around him. A leader by 
I 
I 
~ 
I I 
f 
I 
I 
example. the captain lines up first and then hits hardest. In his mind, footwork and technique can always be bettered and preparation for the opponent is an never-ending process. 
If you're trying to locate Young in the off-season, try the weight room. His presence is there too. He is the one doing the extra reps, adding the extra weight and pushing himself to the limit. He knows the importance of strength in the upper body and in the legs for a line­man. 
His coach knows Young's commitment to improvement. 
"I don't know if you know what he looks like, but he looks like a greek god. He busts his butt in the weight room. No one's going to be stronger than him and he's going to use all his skills to the best of his advantage. If he does have a weakness, he finds a way to overcome it," said Trgovac. 
Young himself admits that his motiva­tion comes from seeing others wasting their natural gifts. 
"What drives me the most looking at some people who have all the talent in the world and they just don't use it. They don't maximize their talents. If I have the ability to do something I'm going to push myself up to that ability," said Young. 
This season, he has adjusted to the 4-3 defensive scheme and his revised responsibilities within that defense. Because he is lining up against the cen­ter or the guard now, Young has found it easier to break through the line or stop the run up the middle, but frequently this year, he has had to beat two of­fensive blockers. For opposing coaches, he is someone to fear and someone to contain. Although the double team is frustrating, Young accepts the chal­lenge. 
"There's nothing I can do about it. I think that if I play the way I am capable of that I can be able to defense double teams. I just have to work hard," said Young. "It's part of the game. If there is a strength on the defense, the offense will try to attack it." 
One advantage for the third-year starter is his experience in game situa­tions. Comfortable on the defensive line, Young says that now he is able to read some offensive formations and know what kind of play will develop, but he still feels there is more to learn. 
"I think with two years of starting under my belt I'm not where I want to be yet. I still feel like I have a lot of work ahead of me and I'm not satisfied right now. I want to be the best I can and set higher standards for myself," said All­American candidate. 
It's no wonder that other members of the team look up to him. Being one of four team captains and a leader of the defense agrees with Young. The quiet and unassuming senior has found it easy to be an example to a defense populated with his classmates, has found it differ­ent not to have someone to look up to himself. 
•\ 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Bryant Young was one of the main reasons Rick Minter switched to a 4-3 defense. 

As a kid, Young had his two older brothers to look to for guidance. It is to them that he attributes the development of his work ethic and the realization that if he worked hard he would be success­ful. 
With the team gunning for a national championship, Young is not about to let up on his preparation. Every game is important and he is willing to do what he has to in order to be ready each Saturday. 
"You have to do what you need to do right now to get there in the end," said Young. "When I'm at practice I'm like 'Man, I have to do this because if I don't do this then maybe that's something I could have done and it cost us the national championship'," said Young. 


Party Special 
DOMINATOR 
ONE TOPPING 
TWO 
FOR 
$18.95 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 
X·IAIIGE 
PIZZA 
ONE 7'0PP1NG 

$6.9Seach 
ADDITIONAL 
PIZZAS ••• 
Ss.oo each 
(lbnit 4) 

Extra Toppings 
~.oo each 
perpizza 
Volld at ~lng statS my. Nol void !Mill OIPf alhor­
fl1coo may vary Cuslonw poyo ooltl lox-·aPIJIOCJijo. 
Oolwry aroas lmttd lo """"" ICJ!o drMig. OUr .....,. carry ltlo 

• lion $2000. 011 <ttwrs oro nat peooltzod far loft -­
• · • IQIIJ Soull Bond Rzza Cap.. In~ Urriltd nmo Oft•.
Ill 

r-------~----------------~--------~--------~----------....------~---­
Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA page7 

by 
jason Kelly 
B 
ubba Smith hangs in effigy from the rafters of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Thousands of sweaty students pack the old gymnasium, roaring above the sound of 
the band. "Kill Bubba! Kill Bubba!" Two hundred miles north, where the real 
Bubba Smith hangs out, thousands of Michigan 
State students salute their hero. "Kill, Bubba, Kill!" That was November of 1966 and the pent up and then everything happened so fast that there wasn't time to be nervous." 

O'Brien certainly didn't appear nervous, hit­ting Bob Gladieux with a 34-yard scoring strike late in the first half to bring the Irish to within three. 
"That touchdown right before the half gave us a confidence boost heading into the second half," O'Brien said. "We knew we would come back." 
It wasn't until the first play of the fourth 

Photo courtesy of "'The Biggest Game of Them Alr 
Coley 0' Brien (3) came off the bench to lead the Irish after starting quarterback Terry Hanratty was injured. 
But winning the game wasn't Parseghian's concern. He was concerned about winning the national champi­onship. 
"We'd fought hard to come back and tie it up," Parseghian said. "Mter all that, I didn't want to risk giving it to them cheap. They get reckless and it could cost them the game. I wasn't going to do a jackass thing like that at that point." 
Michigan State's defensive line howled at the Irish, calling them "sissies, cowards and every other insult­ing thing you could think of," as the Irish ran the ball .­on play after play with time running out. 
The players watched helplessly as the fmal seconds ticked off the clock. 
A 10-10 tie. 

"It was devastating," O'Brien said. "We felt like we had lost the game and any chance we had at the national championship. But Ara reminded us that we played a great team under tough conditions and we didn't lose." 
Fans on both sides criticized the play-calling of the coaches in the final minutes and proclaimed their team No.1. 
Notre Dame would go on to win the national title after a 51-0 thrashing of USC the next week. But neither Notre Dame nor Michigan State felt much like a champion on that cold November Saturday. The players filed silently off the field beneath the shouting of the unsatisfied spectators. 
The years have softened the pain for players and spectators alike. Satisfaction comes from knowing they were a part of the greatest game of all time. 

Photo courtesy of "'The Biggest Game of Them Alr 
Joe Azzaro kicked this 28-yard field goal to tie the score but missed a chance to win the game wide right. 
excitement on both campuses burst free as the most anticipated game of the season-possibly the most anticipated game ever-drew closer. 
No. 1 Notre Dame vs. No. 2 Michigan State. 
The Biggest Game of Them All. 
"The excitement had been building all season long as 
it became apparent that it would be a game with major national championship implications," said Notre Dame quarterback Coley O'Brien. 
When the week finally arrived, the emotion reached a level that hadn't been felt before. 
Never had the nation's top two teams met so late in the season. 
Students rallied, media swarmed. ABC's cameras would be on hand to broadcast a college football game to a national audience for the first time ever. 
It was the day col­lege football came of age. 
Saturday November 19 dawned dreary and cold in East Lansing. Perfect foot­ball weather. 
Ten future first-round NFL draft picks and 33 future pros were on the field that day, along with two of the nation's most revered college coaches-Notre Dame's Ara Parseghian and Michigan State's Duffy Daugherty. 
Parseghian's eyes were locked in an intense stare as 
his stocky figure stalked the sidelines. 
Daugherty looked more like the Pillsbury doughboy. Chubby and white-haired, the quick-witted Spartan coach was every bit as intense as Parseghian behind his grandfatherly exterior. 
Both had shaped their teams into championship con­
tenders. Despite all the attention on the collection of 
all-star players, the game would be as much a battle of 
minds as a battle of bodies. 
Notre Dame lost some its top bodies early in the game, when quarterback Terry Hanratty and center George Goeddeke fell victim to the punishing hits of Bubba Smith. 
With All-American Nick Eddy already out after 
aggravating a shoulder injury when he slipped off the 
train the night before, Michigan State seemed poised to 
take over the top spot in the polls. 
Regis Cavender scored on a four-yard plunge and 
Dick Kenney added a 47-yard field goal that gave the 
Spartans a 10-0 second quarter lead. 
Against that Michigan State defense, a 10 point lead seemed almost insurmountable, particularly with so many of Notre Dame's offensive weapons sitting on the sidelines. 
.Keserve Irish quarterback Coley O'Brien, a diabetic 
who required two shots of insulin each day, proved to 
be just the shot in the arm that Notre Dame needed. 
"The best thing about that game was not knowing 
that I would have to play. I had a nice, relaxing trip to 
East Lansing and I slept well on Friday night," he said. 
"There were no butterflies until I got the call to go in, quarter that they finally did come back. 

Another Irish drive had stalled, but they were within field goal range and Joe Azzaro booted a 28-yarder to tie the score at 10. 
It was a long climb over a mountainous Michigan State defense to tie the score, but Azzaro's field goal clearly shifted the momentum in Notre Dame's favor. 

"Now, it's just a matter of time," he thought to him­self after the kick. 
Swarming defense 
and missed opportu­
nities by both teams 
kept the game dead­
locked as time 
ticked steadily off 
the clock. 

Notre Dame line­
backers Jim Lynch 
and Jim Horney 
stopped the Spartan 
rushers 16 times for 
a loss or no gain. 

The biggest play came with five min­utes remaining. Irish safety Tom Schoen ran back an interception to the Michigan State 18 yard line, setting up what looked like another classic 
But on second down, Smith and Phil Hoag hammered Notre Dame halfback Dave Haley for an eight yard loss. When O'Brien's third down pass fell incomplete, Azzaro trotted back onto the field, 42 yards from giv­ing the Irish the lead. 
Sure-handed Coley O'Brien placed the snap on the hard turf and Azzaro hit what he thought was the per­fect kick. 
It sailed straight toward the uprights, but at the last second it drifted right, missing by less than two feet. 
"I did everything right. It was a good, solid hit," Azzaro said. "At the last instant the wind kicked up or something, and it started tailing right a little bit." 
Not much, but enough. 

The fmal4:39 of that game are the most talked about 
and second-guessed minutes in the history of college 
football. 
Michigan State took possession after Azzaro's miss. 
Daugherty, not risking any foolish mistakes, made con­
servative calls that chewed up some time and led to 
one first down. 
But on the second set of downs, the Spartans found 
themselves in a fourth-and-4 situation on their own 36 
yard line. 
Daugherty opted to punt, believing that Parseghian's 
will to win would force the Irish to be careless with the 
football. 
But Parseghian proved to be as conservative as 
Daugherty. 
Michigan State put six defensive backs on the field, 
each instructed to go after any football in the air. 
Parseghian called only one pass play on the entire 
drive, with Notre Dame on the 41 yard line and only 10 
seconds remaining that resulted in a quarterback sack. 
He has been questioned for not throwing the ball 
sooner and giving his team a better chance to win the 
football game. 
r---------.....
----------~-~--~--~~------------------------~­
page 8 Friday, September 17, 199 3 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA 
JOCK STRIP 
Colorado, Tennessee 
: ; -...-oP 25
Work makes 
r~-----­
face tough road tests
McDougal a 
Games of interest
•

Winner 
9/12 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 9/5 
1. 1546 1 2. 1464 2 3. 1384 4 4. 1267 11 5. 1260 8 6. 1240 6 7. 1172 10 8. 1132 9 9. 1063 7 10. 970 3 11. 902 16 12. 876 17 
13. North Car~so·N TM-D 829 14 14. Penn State ._ 2-0-0 752 15 15. 701 13
Arizona 'l\ 2-0-0 
16. Texas A&M 1-1.:0.. 560 5 
17. North CarolinaS 2-~0 ··> 545 18 18. Washington .' , 1-~-9-. 532 12 19. Brigham Young -2-JH} 406 20 20. Stanford ~ 237 23 21. 
185 22. 179 25 23. 158 24. 138 25. 98 
Others recei Louisville 84, Michigan , S ina 46, Iowa 45, Auburn 38, Georgia Tech 29, Virginia 29, West Virginia 22, Baylor 21, Southern Cal 18, Missouri 16, Fresno State 12, Clemson 9, Indiana 9, Mississippi 8, Kentucky 7, Vanderbilt 7, Georgia 4, Hawaii 4, Memphis State 3, San Diego State 3, Texas 3, three teams 1. 
JBR 

Rice," said Lou Holtz. "Rice had more o a picture perfect throwing motion. Kevi PEERLESS McDougal has an awkward throwin motion, but his release is awfully good. PROGNOSTICATORS 
"I don't think Kevin McDougal is goin to beat many tacklers one on one in the open field. lie has very good speed but i 
This week The Observer sports staff and not a strong physical runner. 
a few of Notre Dame's most generous 
"Tony Rice could run over or around Last Week's Guest: 10-1
contributors pick their winners for the 
player at any time, depending on the George Dohrmann Jason Kelly Guests Overall: 18-4 
• 
mood he was in." Overall: 15-7 Overall: 14-8 
week's top matchups. We included pic-
John Loftus Raymond MeyoIn short, Rice could beat you with hi Last Week: 5-6 Last Week: 6-5 

tures of their donations because we don't
athletic ability. McDougal has to find a Notre Dame Notre Dame
alternative route. Notre Dame Notre Dame 
have pictures of their sprawling estates. 
Tennessee TennesseeThat translates into McDougal needin Tennessee Tennessee Colorado Colorado

to listen to Holtz and run the Iris Colorado Colorado Syracuse Syracuse 
Syracuse Syracuseoffense as drawn up by his coach. 

Boston College Boston CollegeBoston College Boston College

He did some improvising agains 
The Observer 
Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State Michigan, but for the most part he ra West Virginia West VirginiaWest Virginia West Virginia 

.. 
the offense, because that's what he ha 
Alabama AlabamaAlabama Alabama 

Sports Staff
waited for three years to do. And no Mississippi MississippiVanderbilt Vanderbiltthat he has the job he'd like to keep it. 
Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State 

''I'm even more determined now. 
Arizona ArizonaArizona Arizonadon't want to have a letdown. I still hav 

vs 

a lot to prove," said McDougal. "We sti have a lot of work to do." It's all about work. ''I'd rather have a football team tha 
The Big 
wasn't very good but wanted to be, tha one that executed well but wasn't sure i 
Spenders
they wanted to be good," said Holtz. 
Kevin McDougal is not Tony Rice o Rick Mirer. He's not that good, but h wants to be. Brian Kubicki Jonathen Jensen 
McDou al's our man coach. Overall: 15-7 Overall: 15-7 Vincent Nairnoli Terrence McGlinn Michigan State at #4 Notre DameLast Week: 7-4 Last Week: 6-5 #5 Tennessee at #9 Florida 
Notre Dame Notre Dame #7 Colorado at #20 Stanford 
Tennessee Tennessee

SPORTS EXTRA STAFF Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Colorado Colorado Colorado Colorado Northwestern at #22 Boston College 
Florida Tennessee #6 Syracuse at Texas Syracuse Syracuse
EDITOR: George Dorhmann 
Boston College Northwestern

Syracuse Syracuse #1 Florida State at #13 North Carolina Northwestern Boston College Florida State Florida State 
GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan West Virginia at Maryland 
West Virginia West VirginiaFlorida State Florida State Arkansas at #2 Alabama Alabama AlabamaCONTRIBUTING WRITERS: West Virginia West Virginia Vanderbilt at Mississippi 

Vanderbilt Vanderbilt #14 Penn State at lowaAlabama Alabama 
Penn State Iowa #15 Arizona at Illinois 
Jason Kelly, Brian Kubicki, Jonathen Vanderbilt Mississippi 
Arizona Arizona Jensen Penn State Penn State 
Arizona Arizona 
K
e v i n McDougal's father often calls Lou Holtz to ask about his son's per­formance. 
Once such call brought a tough response from Holtz. 
"Well, he didn't have a strong prac­tice today." said 


Holtz. "He didn't L------_JI 

Florida
look very good." 

Tennessee's Heath Shuler leads his"Tell Kevin I said to work harder," Mr. 
high-powered attack into GainesvilleMcDougal responded. And then he hung after whipping SEC rival Georgia 38-6 up. 
last week. The Volunteers' signal­
Kevin McDougal places life in a tight caller has a nose for the end zone, andperspective. If he works hard enough he he threw two TDs in last week.
will succeed. Words to live by in the 
Florida comes off a hard-fought 24­working world, but naive in terms of col­
20 win over an upstart Kentucky
lege football stardom. 

squad, in which Errict Rhett picked upYou can't teach talent. You can't work 
136 yards on 21 carries. Big play
at being a gifted athlete. It just happens. 
Gator receivers Willie Jackson andIt only happened part way for Kevin 
Jack Jackson each snatched six passesMcDougal. 
but the Gators needed a 28-yardHe is neither a great runner nor a touchdown throw from Danny
great passer. He gets the job done both Wuerffel with three seconds left to ways, but will never leave you breath­Errict Rhett beat the Wildcats.
less. But McDougal works. He has to or he 
#1 Florida State at #13 North Carolina 

wuuiu never si.ep on the field. 
The Seminoles hit Chapel Hill looking for a close game, and theyDuring fall when it looked as if fresh­probably won't find one. The Tar Heel offense is high-powered, ledman Ron Powlus was going to win the by quarterback Jason Stanicek, who completed 14 of 17 for 288
starting job, Holtz pulled the senior 
yards and two TDs in the first half in a 59-42 win over Maryland
quarterback aside. 

last week. However, FSU will likely exploit the weak defense,"I told him there may be a change in which gave up 405 yards to Terrapin quarterback Scott Milanovich 
the depth chart," Holtz said, "his com­ment was, 'I know I can be the best 
last week. The Seminoles squashed No. 21 Clemson 57-0 last week, and
quarterback and do what you need to 
have outscored their opponents 144-7 in three games as Charliewin. And I'll prove it to you."' 
Ward has completes 70 percent of his passes and has not thrown
He did just that against Michigan, 
an interception in his last 150 attempts.
proving that he can win for Holtz and Notre Dame and that hard work pays dividends on Saturdays. No. 22 Boston College at Northwestern 
McDougal is probably the first Notre The Golden Eagles and the Wildcats head into their first games Dame quarterback in some time that has since losing their openers to top-5 teams. Boston College lost to had to work. Rick Mirer needed only to Miami on September 4th and, if you remember, Northwestern was learn the playbook before his tremen­beaten by a small Catholic school in Indiana two weeks ago. dous passing abilities were displayed. The Wildcat offense is led by QB Len Williams, tailback Dennis Tony Rice was one of the best athletes to Lundy, and flashy wideout Lee Gissendaner, and as they showed play for the Irish. And amazingly he is against Notre Dame, they can put points on the board. Boston the one people most compare to College will have to get more big plays from dependable quar­McDougal terback Glenn Foley and running back Dwight Shirley. 
"I don't think he's anything like Ton 

No. 7 Colorado at No. 20 Stanford 

After squeaking by San Jose State 31-28 last week, the Cardinal continues its murderous schedule with a visit from Colorado's potent passing offense. Stanford's defense, which was one of the nation's best last year, has been sorely lacking in its two games, the first a 31-14loss to Washington. 
Now they host Colorado, which features one of the nation's top quarterbacks in Kordell Stewart and arguably the best receiver in 6'4" Michael Westbrook. Throw in flanker Charles Johnson (6 

catches for 151 yds last week) and tailback Lamont Warren and coach Bill McCartney has a big headache in store for Bill Walsh. 
George Dohrmann 
. 
No. 5 Tennessee at No. 9 


--~-----------~-----------~~~--~--~----~--------------~--~-~­
Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer • ACCENT page 13 
,_,..,1 L'·':~. i .. t:o4 Assistant Accent Editor ~; J ~~ .: The time has finally come to see the results 
,, If• t of the filming during football games, the -· blocking off of sidewalks, and the closing of classrooms. On Wednesday, October 6, "Rudy" will have its premier at 7:30 p.m. in 
.· . , . , South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium, giving ~ 1 1 a jump start to the release in selected market · on October 13. and the national release 
which will occur on October 22. 
Many exciting events have been planned in order to assure the audience's enjoyment. Starting at 6:30 p.m. in the plaza in front of the Morris Civic Auditorium the Notre Dame Marching Band will perform a concert. They will play music from the "Rudy" score. which includes "Rudy's Theme" composed by Oscar winning Hollywood composer Jerry Goldsmith. 
A few minutes before the start of the movie at 7:30p.m. Sean Astin, who plays Rudy, and other principle cast and crew members will arrive via limousine. "It will be complete with search lights and red carpet," said Richard Conklin, associate vice president of University relations, "just like a Hollywood premier." 
Following the movie, around 9:30 p.m. the marching band will lead the audience, approximately 2,468 people, on a three block march to the Century Center for a post pre­mier party. The Center is decorated in Notre Dame motif for this event and the audience will be able to mingle with the cast members, as well as take advantage of a cash bar, snack food and soft drinks. 
Starring along with Sean Astin is Ned Beatty, Charles Dutton and Lili Taylor. The premier is sold out, and the special half price student tickets are only available until today.
The Observer/John Bingham 
Dame and Georgia Tech football teams relax during filming last fall on the Notre Dame campus. The film, portraying the life of Dan 'Rudy' However, two hundred tickets will be avail­
able for students through a lottery system, 
and the winners will be drawn and posted on my Hollywood frustrations and a to walk through campus to get to The Observer: How do you feel October 1. man whose brother knew Angelo Holy Cross. I ate in South Dining this movie benefits the ND com­
overheard us talking and said, "Rudy you can't give up on your story. My brother knows the peo­ple who did Hoosiers." 
I thought that they would un­derstand what I'm about to tell them. I talked to the brother of the brother for two years. Then I started talking to Angelo. I fi­nally invited myself to California to have lunch with Angelo. When I got to the restaurant Angelo didn't show for lunch. 
I walked the streets of Santa Monica looking for Angelo's house. A postman told me where he lived. Angelo finally met me at the restaurant and we talked about Hollywood for hours. Finally I asked if my story was a movie. Angelo said this story was not for him and didn't want to get labeled as a man that did stories about great Indiana athletes. 
I told him that I'm not athlete, not a great athlete and Notre Dame is made up of kids that work their butts off. So Angelo became interested in the story. We talked to for one and a half years until Angelo and David (Anspaugh) gave the screen play to Rob Fried -eventually it ended up with TriStar pictures. 
The Observer: What was life like for you when you attended Notre Dame? 
Rudy: In 1974 I came to Notre Dame as a junior from Holy Cross Junior College. Everyone already knew me because I lived at Saint Joe Hall, the seminary, and I had Hall. I tried out for the football team and never became an of­ficial member of the team until the spring of 1975. They asked me to come back for fall ball. All I wanted to do was to contribute and the only thing I was guaran­teed was that could come to prac­tice everyday. 
The Observer: Does the movie accurately tell the Rudy story as it actually happened to you? 
Rudy: To tell 20 years of life experience in a movie makes the story different. We had to keep to what happened and make com­posites for people and situations to get at the story. The makers kept to the integrity of the story. I don't remember what I said 20 years ago. I told Sean Astin to act as he felt I would, not as I actually did. I am very happy with how they did it. They took dramatic license with a couple of scenes. 
The Observer: Do you feel that short-time on the field when you sacked the Georgia Tech quar­terback has changed your life? 
Rudy: It has changed my whole perspective of who I am. I didn't know what to do after 1976, it was anti-climatic. I al­ways knew I could do it if they gave me the chance. And I was ready when they finally gave it to me. My experience just lets you know that it can happen. 
munity? 
Rudy: It shows that ND is a special school. There are family feelings here -it is a spiritual school which makes you feel peaceful. You always know there are a lot of people who care about each other. 
The Observer: How has the movie-the nation knowing your story -affected your life? 
Rudy: It affects me because it gives me the opportunity to do public speaking, to inspire peo­ple. I want to tell people that the American dream is still here-life is doing what you have to do to be what you want to be. 
The Observer: Are there any final comments or concerns that you would like the Notre Dame students to know about you and your life? 
Rudy: I want the students to know that Notre Dame is going to be shown in a very special way. ND was like a religion when I was growing up. When I went to church they announced the ND football scores. When I finally saw Notre Dame it meant more than football -it meant the values that my father had. 
Notre Dame is a very unique place -don't take it for granted. Look at ND as your family and as an extension of your life. Everything you do here may be tough, but it is like tough love in that it will make you stronger. 

~Sl·.<·. ,_ : Rlet.-refle~ts' '. 
ho~'~s··~nlf' d~eicis .=. 
.By ELISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
There has been a a lot of 
. talk recently about the release of the new movie "Rudy" and all of the events surrounding the premier. 
Many know a little about the movie -a walk-on fmally gets to play in a football game, he makes a big play, and then gets carried off of the field on his teammate's shoulders. The game of football is only a small aspect of the movie, however. "Rudy" is, more importantly, a story about determination, circumstances, and a chance to pursue the "American Dream." 
The movie begins in Joliet, Illinois in 1960, where Daniel {Rudy) Ruettiger is a young boy growing up in a large, Catholic working class family. Notre Dame is highly revered by the Ruettiger's, but Rudy's father discourages his son from even trying to aspire tn attend such a prestigious uni­versity. 
This discouragement; how­ever, does not stop Rudy from dreaming of not only attending Notre Dame, but also putting on the uniform and the golden helmet as a member of the football team. 
After Rudy graduates from high school, he goes to work at the steel mill with his father and his two brothers. Rudy is content with his life until one day his best friend is killed in an industrial accident, and the grief-stricken Rudy is shocked into action. 
Rudy applies and is accepted to Holy Cross College and fi­nally succeeds in transferring into Notre Dame. After two years on the practice squad, Rudy is finally allowed to join the varsity team in an official game, and achieves the goal which he set m.It for himself many years ago. 
Rud_y is a story about hope, and through self esteem and motivation. a small town ~­from the Midwest was able to: ,l'eacllliis -dream. 

page 14 
The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 17, 1993 
Catholicism: Ancient history and post-nasal drip 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a Bone/j 9od 
I wonder if the biblical Job, the archetype of the schlemiel in the Jewish tradition was sub­jected by the Master of the Universe to post-nasal drip? Of all the dreaded dirty tricks God could have used to test that an­cient man of sorrows in the land of Oz,' post-nasal drip seems the least pardonable. 
As a current victim myself of post-nasal drip, I've been between a rock and a hard place as I ask: "How long, 0 Lord, how long?" Can He have forgotten, do you think, what it feels like to want to be young of heart, singing the September song, at age 6 7? 
At age 67, lie would have been, as the Deity, younger than springtime Himself, if lie celebrated birthdays. As the Lord of the Church, He's been on deck for quite some time; yet there's no record of His grow­ing old; and by His grace, the Church He courts as a Lover remains a Bride after 2.000 years. 
I could say, like Augustine, "Late have I loved Him, the Ancient of Days, ever-young." I was 18 when I started to be­come seriously acquainted with the Lord of the Church in the summer of '43, when I gradu­ated from high school; and the following year, I was baptized as a Catholic. As a lad. I had been sacramentally sprinkled as a Congregationalist believing in the fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, and the leadership of Jesus. 
Later, when I accepted Him as my personal saviour, I underwent total immersion as a Baptist. I moved into about the Human Condition. Darby O'Gill and I are here to witness that the happiest cam­per has to pass through the badlands called the Human Condition on his or her way to the American Dream.The Human Condition is what Christians are faced with after 2,000 years of misusing their free will As Americans hyped high on the value of optimism and self-reliance as our native, domestic and inbred virtues we can see from our national liter­ature where the human Condition is apt to lead. 

Fitzgerald wrote in The Great .G.a1£by of the American Dream as the light that failed. "Show me a hero, he said, "and I'll write you a tragedy." The darkness which bedevils the human condition used to be more God-centered. ~ Dick was a God-accusing novel which dragged the allegedly just Judge to the bar of justice, "as a damn bad Indian" for His ugly work in making the shark a cannibal, mindless enough to devour its own entrails. Gloucester, who was blinded with the taunt. "Out, vile jelly Where is thy lustre now?" offers the chilling complaint: "As flies to wanton boys, so are we to the gods: They kill us for their sport." 
Possibly the best of all an­swers to human suffering cames from Alyosha in The Brothers Karamazov. When his brother Ivan rebels against God for causing or alLowing inno­cent children to feel pain, Alyosha points to the suffering of the innocent Christ, putting Himself beside the suffererers and bearing their pain. Alyosha 
represents Christ. He has the 
courage to serve others without 
question, since it is enlighten­
ment that comes from Christ's 
own example. 
In this century of the holo­causts, one can sympathize with the disenchanted Jew or Christian who has concluded that the idea of God is unthink­able. What I feel contempt for is the glibness that comes off as Christ-speak, aimed at the search for the Inner Child. Campus Ministry's mission is to show students the way to be­come Christ's brother.Christ must forgive the Church for its many sins against people. But to trivialize the Liturgy by turn­ing it into a celebration which flatters the human condition seems like a service to anti­Christ. 
It worries me to hear rumors of emancipated Catholics at Notre Dame who might wel­come the psychobabble which could demythologize Calvary as a saving event delivering us from evil whose existence is a mystery.llas the 50th anniver­sary of my high school gradua­tion turned into a summer of discontent for me? Only when I pay attention to the critics who like not the Pope when they say that AM or FM-or AC or De­makes little difference; and that Womanpriest and Alter Christ should be interchangeable in celebrating the Mass. 
If this is true, the old men along with the students should head for the church door, since the Church of our fathers has been exploded likes an old wives tale of witches in Salem, which the puritans used to in­still fear in their children. 

Catholicism as an Episcopalian: 
my final exit before Rome was 
being confirmed as one of God's 
Frozen People. I've never joined 
a denomination that I haven't 
continued to love and respect; 
and like the rings on a tree that 
show stages of growth, the past 
is still visible in my life as a 
Catholic. 
I'm proud to have received the right hand of fellowship in the New England meeting hous­es that the Pilgrims built. On some days I feel more like a born-again than I do a Catholic; and to tell you the truth, I just bought a new copy of the Book of Common Prayer, since the old copy has become shabby and tattered with use. My track record will show I did a Jot of flip-flopping religiously at an early age, as a way of spiritu­ally growing. 
What hurts me now is that I'm fifty years older, and I can't go home again. Next week up in Maine, my high school class is having its fiftieth reunion, and it kills me to decide that I shouldn't attend. 
Recently, I received a hand­written note from a classmate encouraging me to attend the reunion. I can remember when she was a princess. and I was a goblin. Meeting her now, she'd still be a princess, and I'd still be a goblin again. To add to the joke, I'd be an ordained goblin. 
Meeting her, I'd feel like Eliot's 
J. Alfred Prufrock, measuring out my life with coffee spoons. 
After the priest-bashing that's been going on in the Church, why shouldn't I feel shy about meeting the Protestant princess who was sprinkled besides me in the church down East that acknowledges the leadership of Jesus? 
The chief contribution I have to make to Notre Dame in the Nineties is sharing my life with a charismatic cocker spaniel named Darby O'Gill III. 
That animal you often see leashed outside the North Dining Hall at mealtimes belongs to me and we live in Stanford. Imagine Darby's embarrassment and mine when a coed who must be a stranger to North Quad told us, as we entered Stanford last night, "I don't think dogs are allowed." Would she object to either of us as Christian witnesses testifying that it is not true to say, "Every day, in every way, I'm getting better and better"? 
Shakespeare, as a poet, said it gently. "Golden lads and girls all must/As chimney sweepers come to dust. "Hemingway said: "A man can be destroyed but not defeated, if he has guts."Asked exactly what he meant by "guts," Hemingway said, I mean 'grace under pres­sure."'Hemingway was writing 


.r 
r 

Drown the Spartans in a Sea of Blue 
''The Shirt '93'' 
Thanks for Your Support 
Available at: 
LaFortune Information Desk· The Notre Dame Bookstore The Alumni Association JACC Varsity Shop 
I

~ Asso~. ~.I&~ -Ij 
All Proceeds Benefit Charitable and Student Organizations ~ .1111' ~· l 
page 18 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL Friday, September 17, 1993 
Virginia drops Georgia Tech 
Cooper has OSU fans smiling, finally 
with Holmes reception, return By ALAN ROBINSON ball since Adam Walker rushed tory. The Hokies had a school 
By ED SHFARER 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Larry Holmes caught a 30­yard touchdown pass and set up a score with a 65-yard kick­off return as No. 25 Virginia downed Georgia Tech 35-14 Thursday night. 
Holmes got behind Lethon Flowers for his scoring recep­tion from Symmion Willis, giv­ing the unbeaten Cavaliers a 9­0 lead in the Atlantic Coast Conference game. 
Tech's Mike Williams pre­vented a 100-yard kickoff return when he bumped 
.. Holmes out of bounds on the Tech 35, but four plays later Kevin Brooks scored from the 7, giving Virginia a 15-71ead. 
The Cavaliers (3-0 overall, 2­0 ACC) beat Tech (1-1, 0-1) for the fifth time in the last seven meetings. It also was Virginia's fourth triumph in its last five trips to Atlanta. 
Virginia's biggest problem in the first half was converting extra points. A high snap pre­vented a kick after the first touchdown and Willis was stopped on an attempted run after the second. 
Virginia scored twice in the final quarter following pass interceptions, the first on Charles Way's 33-yard run and the other a 6-yard run by Brooks with 34 seconds left in the game. 
A_,LIICE 
l4CIMMPION TfJ/MII 
Tlae Houo Tlaot Motivates • Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
' To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 

Distributed by:
1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 

209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
look for theN' Image logo on the tag. it's your guarantee of quality. I Why settle for second be517 
--------------~ 
Play Ukra Champoon Today. "'pending 
21st Ann"!lal Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
LONDON ROME May 18-June 19 June 12-July 11 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in 
BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
MEETING October 11 
-6:30 pm Carroll Hall, SMC • Free Pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Kyle Kirkeide added field goals of 28, 39 and 20 yards for the Cavaliers. 
Tech cut the lead to 9-7 on a 20-yard pass from Donnie Davis to Keenan Walker with 
7:19 left in the second, just before Holmes' long kickoff return. 
After Way gave the Cavs a 28-7 lead, freshman Derrick Steagall returned the ensuing kickoff 50 yards, setting up a six-play, 42-yard drive that ended on a 9-yard keeper by Davis with 8:39 left in the game. 
The Jackets, looking for added inspiration following last year's 55-24 loss at Virginia, warmed up in their traditional blue home jerseys, but returned to the field in gold. 
It was the first time Tech had worn gold jerseys since a 28-24 Thanksgiving Day loss to archrival Georgia in 1971. 
Hours: Tues.-Fri.-11-2:30 (lunch) 5-9:30 (dinner) Saturd&y -3-9 Sunday-4-9 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
There he was just two games into his Ohio State coaching career, and Buckeyes fans already were beating down the locker room door to get to coach John Cooper. 
And they didn't want his autograph or a handshake. 
Cooper's honeymoon with his often-critical, often-demanding fans lasted only as long as it took Pitt to embarrass the Ohio State 42-10 in 1988 in his first nationally televised game as the Buckeyes' coach. 
The fans -and there were thousands of them in Pitt Stadium that night -threw plastic cups and programs at Cooper as the Buckeyes left the field, and some hammered angrily on their locker room door 
"We were embarrassed," Cooper said. "I remember it like it were yesterday." ~ 
There haven't been too many memorable days for Pitt foot­
!~.~~.p~~~~

Charbroiled, Sushi, Galbi, Bulgogi, Teriyaki, Suki Yaki, and Shabu Shabu -Carry Out Available­
620 W. Edison Rd. Mishawaka St. Andrews Plaza 254-9120 
j_ 

for 179 yards and three first­half touchdowns on that September night, ·and Saturday's rematch against the No. 11 Buckeyes doesn't promise to be one, either. 
Except, of course, for Ohio State. 
The 11th-ranked Buckeyes (2-0) will take the field Saturday with their best team of Cooper's six-year tenure, while Pitt (1-1) almost certainly has one of its worst teams ever. Cooper hasn't talked of extract­ing revenge for that 1988 embarrassment, but the way Pitt coach Johnny Majors is talking, the Buckeyes could almost name their score. 
Virginia Tech did a week ago, beating Pitt 63-21 in Majors' homecoming game -one of the worst losses in the Panthers' 103-year football his-record 675 yards and 500 rush­ing yards, and -and this is what really worries Majors ­Ohio State has an even better running game than the Hokies do. 
"And we don't have a run­ning defense," Majors said. ''I'm not being sarcastic. We have no depth, no running defense, not much of a passing defense and not much of a run­ning offense or a passing offense either. To stop Ohio State, it's going to take a whole lot more than what we've got." 
Of course, Majors made simi­lar statements before the Panthers' opener at Southern Mississippi, only to pull off a remarkable 14-10 upset. 
That's why Cooper practiced for the team that beat Southern Miss, not the team that lost to Virginia Tech. 

The Bead Workshop 0000000000 
Over 1000 different beads of all shapes and sizes and a full line of supplies! 
Present this coupon for 10% off purchases over $5 
2222 Mishawaka Ave. Tues-Fri-11 am-6 pm 
Near Ironwood  Sat  -10 am-5 pm  
237 0500  
Expires 10/29 /93  
--.  

JFrr~~ Outdoor Concert 
at Saint Mary's 
must be able to present a valid college ID sponsored by Student Government and Student Activities Board 
. 

Friday, Sept. 17 8,11 pm Havican Field 
t 


Friday, September 17, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 19 
Majors struggles at Pitt with one ofhis worst teams ever 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Pitt coach Johnny Majors doesn't mind advertising that this is probably the worst foot­ball team he has ever coached. 
There it is on page 17 of the latest The Pitt News, an ad that says everything about the state -and the state of disarray ­of Pitt football before Saturday's game against No. 11 Ohio State. 
"Coach John Majors would like to invite anyone interested in walking on to the Pitt foot­ball team to a meeting on Sept. 13.... Of particular interest are those who specialize in long snapping and kicking." 
And playing the defensive line 
and quarterback and line­
backer and defensive back and 
Majors knew he was taking a time machine trip when he returned to Pittsburgh last December following his messy divorce from alma mater Tennessee, the school he'd coached since he led Pitt to the 1976 national championship. 
Majors also knew Pitt had been in a decade-long freefall since he and his predecessor, Jackie Sherrill, left town. What he didn't realize was that not only were the Panthers bad, they were even worse than they were when he inherited a 1-10 team in 1972. And that was considered the all-time low ebb of Pitt football. 
"There were fewer football players on this team when we took over last winter than there were (in '72)," he said. "Since I left (in 1976) very little has been put back in the program, and that's a shame. It's really just a crying shame, but I refuse to cry about it." 
It's not just the numbers ­
In terVarsi ty Christian Fellowship in\ i\e:, ~' uu to a Fellowship Meeting 
tonight. Scptemhcr 17th ():.iO-R:OO p.m. at the CSC (\d1l'rc cool people go for singing and fun~) 
(.l_ue...:.ttr_)fl" · (·all Ke\·tn ,tl 2-:--~-1-:-5-:-or Lisa at -L~H·D 
Purdue Road Trip 
Catch the Actio11! 

Pitt is currently practicing with only 60 scholarship players, 28 fewer than allowed under NCAA rules and 25 fewer than Majors recruited in his first year at Pitt in 197 3. 
~The talent's worse, the facili­ties are 20 years older, and, worst of all, the schedule is worse. And what Majors fears is that it's going to get much, much worse for a team that was beaten 63-21 at home last Saturday by Virginia Tech, a 2­8-1 team last season. 
"And it was worse than the 
score indicated," Majors said. 
"In my entire coaching career, 
I don't ever remember being 
whipped worse than we were 
by Virginia Tech. We're as 
shorthanded as any football 
team I've ever had. It's proba­
bly as bad a whipping as any 
team I've ever been around for 
36 or 37 years. We have miles 
and miles to go to be adequate, 
much less a good football 
team." 
And Pitt's trouble is that near­ly every team it plays is at least very good. This week, it's Ohio State, and, later, it's No. 3 Miami, No. 4 Notre Dame, No. 6 .Syracuse and No. 22 Boston College, plus almost-ranked Louisville and on-the-rise West 
Virginia and ... 
"This is the first time since my first year at Iowa State when I couldn't look across the sched-

Notre Dame vs. Purdue Septen1ber 25th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross-Ade Stadiun1 (Buses leave at 10:00 am fr01n CCE) 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to gatne now available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
ule and see one team or tliree national champion Alabama to or seven that you thought you the wire, but was engulfed by a could beat," Majors·said. firestorm of Pitt opening-game 
And that included Southern emotion and a fire-and-brim­Mississippi, which Pitt some­stone speech from Majors. how upset 14-10 in its season "To win that first game was opener Sept. 2. Southern Miss one of the most exciting events was 8-4 last season and took of my life," Majors said. 

John Majors, Pittsburgh head coach, readily admits that this year's is the worst team he has ever coached. 
Personal Assistants for active female Notre Dame student who needs assis-­tance in dressing, eating, hygiene and other daily life activities. Hourly wage and training proyided. Call Tonya, 289--0385 
Attention ND Students from the East Coast! 
By now you have certainly found that what passes for Pizza in the Midwest is NOT the same as you get back home. The thought of4 years of"Franchise Pizza" must be terrifYing! But not to worry, you don't have to transfer to Syracuse. (Whew!) 
CASSINO'S PIZZA ofNEW YORK makes the only real pizza in town, along with calzones, strombolis, real Philadelphia Cheese Steaks, cold beer and hot & cold subs. Hey, do your Midwest roommates a favor and bring them along. Let them taste what Pizza is supposed to taste like! After all, it's not their fault that they're not from the East. 
CASSINO'S PIZZA Yes, we really are from New York 257-1100 Jefferson & Main, Mishawaka 
----------------------------r--------------------------­
$2 OFF : Every Wednesday any Large Pizza : I 2 Large cheese Pizzas 
' 

with Student ID : Only $9.95 
----------------------------~---------~----------------­


w 
a. 
<
a: 
" 

JEFFERSON 
0 
CASSINO'S 

-------------~---­
,__.-------~----------~---~---­page 20 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL Friday, September 17, 1993 
Final Four like fervor over football at UNC 
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL 

There's a big ACC game this weekend on Tobacco Road. Two undefeated teams will play before a sellout crowd on national television. The hype is enormous, the No. 1 ranking is on the line, and the winner could capture the national championship. 
So what do think, Dean Smith? 
"It should be a great game," he said. "I can't wait to watch it on television." 
That's right, Smith will be a fan Saturday night when top­ranked Florida State visits No. 13 North Carolina in the most important football game at Kenan Stadium in a dozen years. 
Big games are nothing new in Chapel Hill, but they usually involve Smith's basketball teams, which have won two national championships and 16 ACC regular-season titles. There hasn't been this much excitement over football since 1981, when No. 8 North Carolina lost to No. 2 Clemson 10-8. 
"People are comparing it to the Final Four," said Corey Holliday, the school's all-time leading receiver. 
"We know this is a basketball school, but we want to have our own identity," said fellow receiver Bucky Brooks. "We want people to say, 'North Carolina is a great school for basketball AND football."' 
North Carolina and Florida State are both high-scoring teams with 3-0 records, but that's where the comparison ends. Florida State is an estab­lished power that is favored to win its first national champi-
Rl 

onship. North Carolina is a ris­ing challenger that has made steady strides under coach Mack Brown since posting 1-10 records in 1988 and 1989. 
Just how far the Tar Heels have come will be determined against the Seminoles, who have outscored Kansas, Duke and Clemson 144-7. 
"We want respect," said senior defensive back Bracey Walker, who has blocked five punts in his career and is known as the hardest hitter on the team. "If we beat Florida State, we'll get all the respect we deserve." 
The Tar Heels already have the respect of Florida State coach Bobby Bowden, who was very impressed by their 31-9 rout of Southern Cal in the Pigskin Classic. 
"They looked as good as any­body I've seen this year," Bowden said. "They've got some speed, especially in their defensive front, and they're scoring a lot of points." 
North Carolina will probably have to score often to beat Florida State, which is averag­ing 48 points and 599 yards per game. The Seminoles have been virtually unstoppable since switching to their "fast­break" offense late last season, and Carolina's defense looked vulnerable last week in a 59-42 win over Maryland. 
But the Tar Heels think Maryland's run-and-shoot offense was good preparation for Florida State's no-huddle, shotgun attack, which is direct­ed by Heisman Trophy con­tender Charlie Ward. 
"I think our defense is going to step up to the challenge," linebacker Bernardo Harris said. 
North Carolina has met many challenges since going 2-20 in 
Happy Birthday, Matt Nielsen 
Love From England 
September 5 
1973~1993 
E~RESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -L3Fortunc Student Center -631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00am-9:00pm' Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
Brown's first two seasons. Brown said he "cried like a 2­year-old" after the Tar Heels hit bottom with a 12-7 loss to Navy in 1989, but he started to turn the program around the following season with a 6-4-1 record. Carolina improved to 7­4 in 1991 and 9-3 last season, inc)uding a victory over Mississippi State in the Peach Bowl. 
"We've come a long way from 1-10," said Brown, a for­mer Florida State running back who coached Appalachian State and Tulane before coming to Chapel Hill. "We've made a lot of progress, and now we're try­ing to take the next step. We've got a chance to measure our­selves against the best." 
Some of Carolina's fifth-year seniors can still remember what it was like to be one of the worst in 1989. They remember the jokes about Brown opening up an "0-11" convenience store, the signs that read "1-40, Carolina 0" and the radio caller who claimed "the only person who can overthrow Noriega is (quarterback) Chuckie Burnette." 
"It was a very, very difficult time," said Brooks. 

24-HOUR OPPORnJNITIES AT STEAK 'N SHAKE! 
Steak 'n Shake has full and part time opportunities on all shifts for enthu­siastic, dependable individuals who want to join our winning team. We are seeking: 
GRILUGRILL BREAKFAST FOOD PREP DRESSING TABLE OPERATOR 
Your attitude, availability and previ­ous experience are important in getting a spot on our team. We of­fer competitive wages, starting at up to $6 per hour, and opportunities for advancement. 
Please APPLY IN PERSON, before 11 AM and after 2PM at the loca­tion of your choice: 
5415 Grape Road Mishawaka 
1315 E. Ireland Road South Bend 

"Voted Best Bed (6 Breakfast 
in Michiana!" 
Need the Perfect Gift Idea or Getaway? May we S11&3e8l, 
The Bei8er Mansion Inn (f) fables Gallery 
Get away or get a gift certificate. Stay in one ofour luxury rooms, lunch in our tearoom, enjoy afabulous Saturday night dinner in our State dining room, or select a work ofart from Fables Gallery. Gift certificates available in any dollar amount. Plan now for a birthday, an anniversary, honeymoon, 0' just to say "I love you." 
LUNCHEON DINNER 
Tuesday thru Saturday Saturday evenings only 
11:00 AM. -2:00 P.M. 6:00 P.M. -9:00 P.M. 
(219) 256-0365 • 317 Lincoln Way East • Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
Fresno State and New Mexico continue young but bitter rivalry 
By PETE HERRERA 
Associated Press 

ALBUQUERQUE 
Fresno State coach Jim Sweeney says his feud with New Mexico has gone far enough, and not even a good business proposition is worth keeping it going. 
Sweeney and second-year New Mexico coach Dennis Franchione were on the same foursome this summer in a golf tournament, and in jest Franchione suggested the two go into the T -shirt business for a one-time product. 
"He told me we could sell 50,000 T-shirts in Albuquerque reading "Kill Sweeney," said the veteran Fresno State coach. "I told him to leave it alone. If he needs the money, I'll take it out of my annuity." 
The next installment in the short but searing rivalry is Saturday in Albuquerque and Fresno State (1-1) will be going for its fourth straight win over the Lobos (0-2). 
The feud began in 1988 when Fresno State beat New Mexico 68-21 in the season opener in Albuquerque and Sweeney referred to the Lobos under then coach Mike Sheppard as "BAMD." 
The two teams met again in Albuquerque in 1989, this time in the final game of the season. Fresno State was undefeated and ranked 25th in the AP poll, while the Lobos were 1-10. But the Lobos scored a 45-22 upset as New Mexico fans chanted "Sweeney Is A Weenie" throughout the game. 

Hi, what's your name? 

JK-Welcome to N D I Love, Doc 
~[¥) ~[rojj ~00 
®rPO~~ Wc[ID~[b[b jj@QJJ [ro[N] ~ [M] ~[N] jj 


lF rruo [Q)~ w~~ ®~rP tr~ [M]fiD ~rru 'fJ ~ ®ii @:[p~ 00 ©@ !Wlruii ® c ®~ @@ ~[M] 
ALSO ... UillGJJ® 0© W¥JW ~0
o 

~~ ~~~® [X]Uill ~rMIJ® 
SPONSORED BY 


--------~-~--------------------------------------------------------------------~-.---.-.------------~------------~------------~--~ 
Friday, September, 17, 1993 The Observer· WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Lester sisters light up MSU-ND soccer rivalry 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
Alison and Kristin Lester have a lot more in common than just their last name. 
They both spent their high school days playing forward for the Schaumburg, High School soccer team in Illinois. 
They were both named All-Midwest players in high school and likely will both be able to brag All-American hon­ors. 
And, they are both currently playing Division I soccer. 
However, their is one significant char­acteristic which distinguishes the sis­ters. Alison wears the blue and gold of Notre Dame while Kristin prefers the green and white of Michigan State. 
Alison, who tri-captains the Irish and currently leads the team in scoring, is prepared to battle her sibling for the first and likely only time in her career at Notre Dame. 
As a senior, she is already the Irish all-time assist leader with 27 career assists. She needs only six more goals and ten points to become the leader in those two categories. . 
But rather than focus on statistics and personal achievements, she is much more concerned with the game on hand. 
"It's always a hard fought, physical game," Alison said, noting that the Spartans remind her a lot of the Irish squad of three years ago, which strug­gled in the big games and lacked the recognition it deserved. 
Although the siblings compare very well in terms of back ground, they differ in terms of playing style. According to Alison, Kristin has better ball handling and shooting skills while the older sister relies on her speed. 
This should prove to be a very inter­esting game for first year student Kristin, who seriously considered play­ing for Notre Dame before finally opting for rival Michigan State. 
''I'm really excited and I'm really ner­vous," she said, "because Notre Dame is such a big name and also because I con­sidered going there." 
Even though the sisters will be foes on the field, they have a very close relation­ship otherwise. Alison, in fact, gave her little sis' a call yesterday to say hello before they face off in Alumni Stadium. 
"I just called to wish her good luck," she said. "She's excited. It's a big game for them." 
''I've never played in such a competi­tive game against her," added Kristin. So, is there a rivalry brewing in the family? 
"Both of us want the best for each other," Alison said, "but I hate to lose. I think she does too, so you might call that a rivalry." 
"We don't really tell each other, but I'm sure (the rivalry) is there," said Kristin. "When I talk to her, I just want to beat her really bad." 
And final~y • of all ~he issues ~0 be Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info resolved tomght, t~e btggest question of Senior captain Allison Lester plays against all seems to ~e. W?;.~e are Mr. and her sister Kristin, a freshman at MSU for the Mrs. Lester gomg to stt. first time ever. 
c~o?er•cks 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to your dorm! Mon .. Thurs 11 a.m ... 9 p.m. Fri & Sat 11 a.m ... 10 p.m. 
East Location: 
$6 minimum 
525 N. Eddy St. 
$1 service charge for 
South Bend, IN 
orders under $15 
232,1177 
~~  all Break Seminars !:'October 24-30, 1993 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service learning at one of eleven sites in the Appalachian region Student-directed serviceI reflection One-credit Theology NEW WOMEN. NEW CHURCH Explore the changing role of women in the Church, and related issues of service Experiential learning in Chicago at various sites, with women in social ministry One-credit Theology or Gender Studies WASHINGTON SEMINAR National Service: Institutional Questions and Future Potentials? Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Includes service and political awareness opportunities ' One credit Theology  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Tuesday, Sept. 21, 1993  II  

Women 
continued from page 24 
game like that," he said. "We focus on ourselves. If we play well, we'll win." 
"We can beat both of these teams," Hartwig added. 
The Irish have been blessed this season with an abundance 
The CHICANO SECRET SERVICE COMEDY CLUB is coming to ND Sept. 21 at Washington Hall from ?-8:30pm. Reception fol­lowing in Ballroom of LaFortune. 

of talent. Every game brings a season. new scorer and the defense has Lester has also been a shin~ held its opponents to an aver­ing light for the Irish this sea­age of half a goal per game. son. Her hat trick against the 
One player who has per­Hoosiers brought her season formed exceptionally well lately scoring total to four goals and is junior midfielder Tiffany six assists. Thompson, who assisted on Junior Jill Matesic will miss three goals in Tuesday's victory her second straight game over Indiana. tonight with a sore knee. 
Although feeling better, she is 
'She's one of those kids that still listed as game-to-game you don't read about much or and hopes to return for don't notice much," said Sunday's match-up with the Petrucelli, "but we couldn't win Tribe. without her." Thompson has Senior backfielder Andi one goal and seven assists this Kurek is listed as questionable
You always were a ''prelly baby" I 

--===-• -=-. 
-~­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
1'\0RffiU CtnT tR 
fOR Tt1t cfl R T S 
A TREK 
CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATRE 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 AT 8 P.M. O'LAUGHL/N AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S-NO COMMUNITY ADULTS $4, STUDENTS $3 A JOHN M. DUGGAN EVENT 
Tickets lor all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 
. 1!1 11
Srunt Mary's Co ege 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September, 17, 1993 
Volleyball faces tough field at home tourney 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will have to guard against any letdown in intensity this weekend, hosting a dangerous field in the Shamrock Invitational. 
After its recent rise in the rankings to number 16, the Irish will try to prove they have the consistency that marks the great teams. 
"The team is really ready to go," remarked senior co-cap­tain Julie Harris. "After last weekend, I think our confi­dence increased. We know we can play with the top ten teams." 
After a week ofT, the Irish will open against Cal St. Northridge today at 4 p.m. The Matadors enter with a 4-5 record, but are coming off a successful tour­nament appearance at San Diego State, winning three of 

Belles 
continued from page 24 
Branstetter said. "There were many strong performances. The freshmen did a really good job." 
Head coach Julie Schroeder­Biek was also pleased with the team's overall performance, noting the importance of stay­ing strong despite playing a team as young as North Park, which has no seniors and only two juniors. 
"We had focus and kept com­ing at them," she said. The Belles have been working on several aspects of their 
game over the last two weeks, and Branstetter feels as though this extra work came through last night and greatly affected the outcome of the game. 
"We had excellent serves and blocks, as well as strong hits," she said. "We ran a much quicker offense tonight, also, and this really threw them ofT." 
Hoping for an improvement in passing and a quicker offense, Schroeder-Biek feels she got both from her team. 
"We passed well off of the many free balls we were given," she explained. "We had a quick attack and I was glad to see them do that." 
The win upped the Belles' record to 6-5 on the season. 
~ 
/?-'\:,ie11--t~~
\......./..,L.•,!J~l-eJ Carry,Out 272,6702 \-.,.; "-.,..-Delivery 2 72,2328 
Since 1977 
6329 University Commons Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 

Today's Specials are served with Egg Drop Soup or Soup of the Day and Egg Roll-No Substitutes please 
Monday Lemond Grass Chicken Tuesday Dalat Chicken Wednesday Stuffed Tofu Lunch Dinner $3.95 $6.75 $3.95 $6.75 $3.95 $6.75 $3.95 $6.75 $4.50 $7.25 $3.95 $7.50 
Thursday  Dalat Beef  
Friday  Governor Shrimp or Dalat Shrimp  
Saturday  Saigon BeefTip  

Enjoy a Unique experience in Oriental Dining 
This Week in Notre Dame Sports 
Oh, what a Weekend! 
------------Friday 9/17 
Women's Soccer vs. Michigan State 
5:00 pm Alumni Field 
Women's Volleyball vs. Northridge
E'' 

4:00 pm JACC Arena
~.g\ "f{J 

Men's Soccer vs. Michigan State 
~ 
~ 

Saturday 
Women's Volleyball vs. William & Mary 
11:00 am 

7:30pm Alumni Field 
9/18----­
JACC Arena vs. New Mexico 7:30pm 

their last four matches. 

Outside hitter Aimee Stone earned MVP honors with 56 kills in three matches, while middle-blocker Debbie Bueche­. Smith should cause some prob­lems for the Irish hitters at the net. 
Revenge is a factor in this match according to Harris. "We lost to them last year when we shouldn't have, so we're out to prove something," she said. 
Next up for the Irish is the Tribe from William and Mary, who come in with a 3-4 record but are 0-2 career against Notre Dame. 
W&M outside hitters Anna Finley and Tanya Mitchell should provide a test for the vaunted Irish defense, as both earned all-tournament honors last weekend. 
The Irish will finish the tour­nament Saturday night at 7:30, taking on the 24th ranked New Mexico Lobos, furnishing an­other opportunity for ND to 



prove itself against nationally respected teams. 
New Mexico has started slow­ly (1-3), but has lost to three highly ranked squads and is potentially very explosive, as shown in its recent victory over New Mexico State. 
The Belies are hopmg to con­tinue their winning ways on Saturday when they travel to Illinois Benedictine College to take on IBC, Knox College and Olivet College. 
These games are important to the Belles as strive for an increase in national exposure. 




Featuring Artie Widgery 
the Finest Italian and Mexican Foods 
501 N. Niles Ave. South Bend Phone: 237-9757 Must be 21 to enter. 
Saturday Night Sept. 1g 

SPORtS-BRIEFS ----------­
The Men's Volleyball club team will be holding tryouts on Sunday, September 19 and Monday, September 20 from 7-10 
p.m. in the JACC Pit. For more information call Matt Strottman at 4-1600. 
Ultimate Club will be holding a practice at 2:00 on Sunday at the Stepan Fields. All are welcome. 
Club Hockey: Anyone interested in playing club hockey. con­tact Rob at X1950. Leave your name, telephone number, and year. 
Spartan Spike Volleyball Tournament. Rec Sports is spon­soring a 6-on-6 co-ree volleyball tournament on Friday, September 17, 8:00PM under the lights at Stepan Courts. Register in advance in the RecSports office by Friday at noon. For more information call the RecSport...:; office at 631-6100. 
Women's volleyball Shamrock Invitational will be this weekend at the Joyce Center. The Irish will face Cal State Northridge at 4 p.m. Friday and William and Mary Saturday at 11 a.m. Both games will be free admission. Saturday night at 7 
p.m. the Irish will play New Mexico. Admission is $2 or free to those with a Blue and Gold card. 
Anyone interested in playing field hockey should meet at Loftus at 9 pm on Sunday through Thursday. If you have any questions, call Christy at x2966 or Bonnie at 273-6591. You do not need experience to join. 
All interested SMC swimmers are asked to attend an infor­mational meeting with the new coach on Monday, Sept. 20 at 7 pm at the Regina Pool 
Congratulations 
Joshi 
Good Luck Swimming for the Iri1h 
You've Come a Long Way! Mom, Dad, Jim 


TODAY 



Friday, September 24 Stepan Center 8:00pm 
Students $8 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Tickets Available at the Info desk at Lafortune 
Friday, September 17, 1993 page 23 
SPELUNKER 

BuT I'LL GF'T HE:R. SHE 
I'(") <":.0NNA (£.T 1-\E.R 

ASK(D ME. To SE:.T HER 
THE. WORST MT£ f'<\:R 

UP FoR oUR DANCE . 
SHE'LL BE MISE.RABLL 

11115 WEEKHID. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I \=EEL SORR'{ \="OR '{OIJ I 
tv'IOE. iou MIJST H?\'IJE 
SOME SERIOUS P£.R'30t-l"'-l 
PROI5LEM5 II=-T\·\1'3 \S 
HoW '1'0\J ?.Elf\TE TO PEO\'LE. 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSOI 
11-\EN 1\GMN, 1-Afl-'lBE \-IE'S J\JST P., W.ORLD-C..L?\SS PooP 1-\EP.,I). 


OF INTEREST 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  31 Riverbank, in  57 Fine smoke  
1 Jeopardy 5 Bearcat 10 Tarzan's companions 14Ambition 1&Tey's "-­Farrar" 17 Diplomatic agent 19Jiff 20 Feeler  Rom a 34 Espials 36 Hamburger magnate 38 Cosmological unit of time 39 Gofers 41 Giant statues 43 Math course 44Con game 46 Fines 47 Chervil or  60 Kalahari's Mongolian cousin 62 Mouths 64 Auto couplings 67 Starbuck on the Pequod 68 Novices 69 "The --the limit!" 70 Leavening  
21 Ancient Roman magistrate  parsley 49 Parts of  71 Humorist Bombeck  
22 Tire mount  psyches  
24 Slight  51 German mystic:  DOWN  
26 Dry: Comb. form  1575-1624 52 Land measure  1 Criticizes  
27 Bulgaria's capital  54 With the bow, to Muti  2 National park in Lake Superior  
29 Plant disease  56 Egg -­yong  3 Relative density  
4 Relations  

5 Actress from ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Greece 6 Lagoon sites 7 Quibble 
25 Kind of brandy 42--Palme, 58 Biblical giant 
a Female lagomorph 27 Word used in former P.M. of 59 Pseudo­Psalms Sweden esthetic
90'Neill's 
45Fata-­

28Grows old 61 Super finale 
Christie 48 Meets head-on 
30Thrive 63 The Charles's 
-::-+.:±-Et:=:-1 10 Tolerant one 50 Upbraids pet32 After-the-fact 53 Opposite of 11 Pioneer's 
wagon discussion WSW &sHoly-,at 33 Liqueur 55--d'art Rome 
12 Fatha Hines 
flavoring 57 Bombinates 66 Nigerian city 13 Chalazion 
35 Stable 
DINING HALL
15 Split apart 
attendant, in Get answers to any three clues
India Beneke 37 Truncheon by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
23 Type of ranch 40 "Volsunga-" 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
18 Band I ead e r 

... SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, September 17, 1993 
Men's soccer gets little rest against stiff competition 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 

Do they ever get a rest? 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will once again be playing NCAA tourna­ment caliber competition this weekend, hosting Michigan State and conference rival Evansville. 
"This is typical of our schedule," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. "We're going to be tested every time we step out onto the field." 
This weekend's two-game set will open a six-game homestand for the Irish. Included on the list of opponents over the next two weeks are top twenty teams Indiana and South Carolina. 
Notre Dame, posting a 2-2 season record, including 1-1 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, is coming off a 3-1 victory at Detroit Mercy Tuesday night. The team was led by junior Jean Joseph with a goal and captain Mike Palmer with two assists. 
Tim Oates, who played sparingly in Tuesday's game due to an injury, made a substantial contribution late in the sec­ond half with an assist on Bill Lanza's game-winning goal. Junior Jason Fox closed the scoring with a goal with :25 seconds left to play. 
Michigan State, 3-2 overall on the sea­son, will enter the game tonight on a two-game win streak, their last victory coming on Tuesday over Eastern Michigan in overtime. 
The Spartans are led defensively by freshman goalkeeper Reid Fiederichs and Chad O'Kulich, a junior defenseman whose aggressive play has helped to hold opponents' scoring chances to a mini­mum. Offensively, the team enjoys a bal­anced scoring attack, with six players tal-
Unbeaten Irish face MSU, #5 Tribe 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
In its most important weekend of this young season, the Notre Dame women's soccer team will play host to perennial rival Michigan State at Alumni Field this evening and to fifth-ranked William & Mary on Sunday afternoon. 
The unbeaten Irish, who boast a 4-0 record while outscoring their opponents 24-2, will need to draw on all of their resources this weekend in order to find success against the physical playing style of the MSU squad and the dangerous offensive attack of the William & Mary Tribe. 
The Spartans, owners of a 1-3 record, are hoping to find a spark to turn around their disappointing start of the season by upsetting the heavily favored Irish. 
"We're really excited," said freshman Michigan State forward Kristin Lester. Kristin, who is the younger sister of Irish tri-captain Alison Lester, added, "We just want to do our best." 
Although their record is rather dismal, it does not accurately portray the talent that the Spartans possess. Their three losses came at the hands of Massachusetts, Hartford, and Wisconsin, teams which are all ranked in the top-20. 
The match-up, which takes place the same weekend every year as the Irish­Spartan football game, is usually one of the roughest and most intense games the team plays all year. The recent addition of the Lester rivalry should add to the stakes of the contest. 
"It's a battle every time," said Alison, who leads the Irish in scoring. 
"It's really important that we control the ball and the pace of the game," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We're not going to win a physical battle with them." 
In last year's game Alison Lester, junior Tiffany Thompson, and sopho­mores Rosella Guerrero and Ragen Coyne all scored for the Irish in the squad's 4-0 shutout of MSU. 
Ranked tenth in the Central Region, the Spartans will be led by sophomore mid­fielder Beth Ernst, who scored eleven goals and added two assists last season. 
"We just have to get our heads in the game," said junior midfielder Jody Hartwig, who last week was named 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player 
of the Week. "We have to want to win or we're not going to play to the best of our abilities." 
The Tribe, which lies two notches above the Irish in the national standings, represents the first top ten team the squad faces this season. 
"I don't think we know it's a big game, or even care," Petrucelli said. "We're not really concerned about where other teams are ranked." 
Notre Dame defeated William & Mary 1-0 when the teams last met in 1991. The Tribe, however, has also improved significantly over the past two seasons. 
The fifth-ranked team is led by sopho­more forward Natalie Neaton, who scored nineteen goals last season. Neaton is the type of player that "can lying two or more points so far this sea­son. 
"We realize the natural rivalry we have and what a big game this is. Our players are fired up," commented Spartan assis­tant coach Steve Schad. 
Notre Dame holds a 6-2-4 series record versus Michigan State. The two teams fought to a 1-1 tie in 1992. 
"I think skill wise we're pretty compa­rable," continued Schad. "It's going to come down to who wants it more." 
Evansville, presently 1-3 on the season, will play Butler tonight before travelling to Notre Dame on Sunday. The Bulldogs upset the Irish 4-2 a week ago at Alumni Field. 
"You can't look at records this early in the season," said Berticelli. "Evansville is a far, far better team than what their record shows. They are potentially tougher than any team we've faced this year." 
The Purple Aces fell to the Irish in the regular season last year 1-0, but bounced back to down Notre Dame in the post­season, capturing the Midwestern Collegiate Conference crown. Evansville earned a spot in the NCAA tournament last season, but lost to Indiana in the first round. The Aces hold an edge over the Irish in the series with a 5-3-1 record. 
Half of the Evansville squad is new to the program, but the team has not lost its reputation for being one of the most physical teams in the country. The team is led by Ian Eggleston, who has scored three goals and an assist on the season, and Brian Loftin, who has turned in two goals and one assist. The Purple Aces hope to turn their early season woes around by avoiding errors against the Irish. 
see MEN I page 16 


\ 



' 


The Observer/David Hungeling 

score at any time," according to Senior Andi Kurek is listed as questionable for this Petrucelli. weekend's games against Michigan State and "I don't see us being intimidated in a William & Mary. see WOMEN I page 21 
Inside SPORTS 

Irish Volleyball ~ College Football 
Sibling Rivalry Brett Hensel and the 
Allison Lester faces her 
&niJ'Mb Ohio State and John 

Irish host the Shamrock sister Kristin for the first 
·-
Invitational this week­time when the Irish soc­
-·~~~",:,'b~~;;::~;~~gHng
end. 
cer team meets MSU. 

see page 22 see page 21
~ seepage19 






