-------------------·------~-----~--------~­

Friday, October 15, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 35 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 

The Observer/David Hungeling 
In living color 
Trees explode with autumn color at the nature trail at Saint Mary's. Every year, trees at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's blaze with vibrant colors. 

A-wareness Week exan1ines ND alcohol abuse, policies 
By JULIE BARRETT Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame is not a dry campus nor is it heading in that direction, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of Stu­dent Affairs. 
"I don't think that the University is going in the direction of a dry campus, 
• see SMC POLICY, page 4 
and I don't think alcohol is a huge prob­lem at Notre Dame," Kirk said. But he did say that nearly 60 percent of the cases handled by Student Affairs are alcohol-related. The violations commit­ted over the past few years have ranged from public intoxication to cases of van­dalism and rape. 
Alcohol abuse has typically been a problem at colleges throughout the nation and Notre Dame is no exception, said Mark Pogue, Alcohol and Drug Education coordinator and organizer of the National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week held this week. 
The purpose and goal of the Awareness Week has been to increase students' awareness about the role alco­hol plays in their lives and if necessary, he said, to make the choice to make a change by quitting drinking altogether or learning how to be a responsible drinker. 
The University recognizes the preva­lence of alcohol on college campuses including their own, and have shown through policy and practice that it is more concerned with teaching re­sponsible drinking, said Kirk. 
"Drinking goes on behind closed doors at student parties, and the University will get involved if things get out of hand," he said. 
According to the University alcohol policy stated in DuLac, the University is subject to Indiana Criminal Laws against underage drinking, but the re­sponsibility for compliance with the law 
SUDS clarifies law 
By ROB ADAMS 
St;d!Wrirer 
Although the main objective of the Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U,D.S.) task fore~ is to stop under­age consumption of?lcoQol, prevention of au· other crime is also a priority, according to Sgt. Terry Bauer, director of Public Information and Education Programs for the Indiana State ExciSe Police. 
"We're trying to eliminate negative behavior;" Hauer $ai9 at last night•s qul.}stion and answer session entitled "Getting To Know the Law Before the Law Gets To Know You. ''I'm going to try to keep you from getting yourself buried or taken to a hospital emer­geu(!y. room, Ho~ many rapes, .assaults; or murd¢J;S are preceded by-
alcohol?" ·· ·········· · · · Although several students expressed concern that S;U.D.S. pays too much, attention to underage drinking, Bauer said .that enforcing underage drinking helps prevent other crime. "Is itbetter to go out and sit and try to figure outwhere something is gofug to happen or to neutraJize a party where people could get killed or drive home drunk or get raped?" asked Bauer in response. Tbl:l S.U.D;S. force decides on loca~ tipns to patrol ba~~d on a variety of 
see SUDS I page 6 
llies ultimately with the students. 
"Underage drinking is illegal and if students choose to drink while under­age, they must be prepared to suffer the consequences," Kirk said. 
The University will enforce the Indiana laws on alcohol in private resi­
see ALCOHOL I page 6 



McGovern urges Clinton to avoid Vietnam repeat 
By GUY LORANGER News Writer 
More than 20 years after his defeat to Richard Nixon in the 1972 presidential election, for­mer anti-war candidate George McGovern seems to present himself more as a teacher of wisdom rather than a warrior of protest, calmly transforming his historical view of the Vietnam War into a set of valu­able lessons for the future of American foreign policy de­cisions. 
"A situation like the Vietnam War should never occur again," he said in a lecture last night. "It shattered the American peo­ple's confidence in the reli­ability of their leaders while costing the innocent lives of countless individuals." 

In response to the compar­isons currently being made be­tween yesteryear's Vietnam and today's Somalia, McGovern praised the humanitarian effort but strongly condemned any further deployment of Ameri­can troops. 
''I'm glad that President Clin­ton is working now towards an agreement with Aidid. It seems to me that further intervention 


The Observer/John Bingham George McGovern lectured at Debartolo Hall last night. 
will only cause more resent-ern invigorated national politics ment," said McGovern. "If with an emotional grass-roots there's any lesson we learn campaign against the military's from Vietnam, the most impor-involvement in Southeast Asia. tant is that one." "I know that many believe the 
In 1972, as the Democratic war was lost on the domestic nominee for President, McGov-battlefield instead of in the Asian jungles. Well, if that was the case, then we should learn from it," said McGovern. "There should not be U.S. sol­diers fighting abroad without the popular support of the American citizens, politicians, or the media." 
The country's involvement in the conflict was the direct result of a series of "dreadful mistakes" dating back to the Truman administration, he said. 
Immediately proceeding World War II, the United States had struck a fatal deal with the French government, accepting their allegiance to NATO in re­turn for support of colonial rule in Southeast Asia. 
"Our main interests were fo­cused upon Europe. We didn't realize that Ho Chi Mihn, who was our ally against Japan, would do practically anything to prevent the French from restoring their colonial pow­ers." 
McGovern said that the Communist leader sent over 8 letters to the White House pleading for the government's support for his independence movement, all of which went unanswered. 
"He even wrote a Declaration of Independence similar to the Jefferson version," explained McGovern. "I guess he really coveted aid from America, although he deep down knew that he wouldn't get it." 
The second mistake the United States made, according to McGovern, occurred during the Eisenhower administration, which took drastic measures towards preventing the 1956 elections. As a result, a bitter power struggle and widespread violence erupted in Southeast Asia. 
"The White House did not ef­fectively respond to the situa­tion. Richard Nixon even con­sidered the use of nuclear weapons," McGovern said with a smile. "Obviously, my dis­agreement with the man went as far back as then." 
McGovern's personal opposi­tion to the Vietnam War began during his Thanksgiving Day visit to the war-torn country in 1965. Told by a news reporter to visit a civilian hospital, Mc­Govern observed a horror-filled scene with the "mangled bod­ies of innocent men, women 
see MCGOVERN I page 6 
~--­

.-----------------------------. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 15, 1993 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Bitter taste of anew Generation 
Somewhere between Douglas Coupland and Joe Domer, something got lost. 
This kind of thing will happen. Kids will misunder­stand "twenty-something," and think that the main­stream media are talking to 
them, because they're 20, or 
close enough. And when 
. h
they see a new movie t at shows a bunch of young 

Rolando de Aguiar Viewpoint Editor 
people getting baked and wasting their youth, they'll think about themselves. 
"Generation X", Coupland's book chronicling his lost generation's search for meaning, isn't about the twenty-year olds of 1993. It's about people ten years older. But most American und~rgraduat~s feel very comfortable with characters hke those m "Singles", even though those people, relatively, are old farts (no offense). 
Matt Dillon's character listened to twenty-year old music, talked about fifteen-year old ideas ~s though they were brand new, and wore orthopedic shoes. 
So why do we emulate him? Why do we listen to Led Zeppelin and the Grateful Dea? (or Pea~l Jam and Phish), treat punk like Geffen mvented 1t and shuffle around in Doc Martens? 
We could be something special, a generation who could turn America in a new direction. But instead, we fall back on the notion that we're Slackers. We're not. 
Notre Dame graduate students are Slackers. Undergrads are something else entirely. 
At this point, no one's really sure what we are, because we have so long relied on the notion that we are Slackers. We're sure that we are the direc­tionless unmotivated kids that they make Hollywo'od movies about, who have no political orientation and see the future as bleak, at best. 
But our generation, sitting in colleges around the country, should be a little less hopeful. . 
When we leave college, few of us will have JObs, and we'll never be as secure as our parents. On a larger scale, racial injustice is swelling, thousands die on our streets each year and democracy seems to be faltering. Six billion people isn't too far off, and the law of entropy seems to be asserting itself in the milieu of international politics. And environ­mental destruction continues, virtually unabated. 
But those aren't necessarily bad things. 
Because from beneath the weight of adversity come the forces of upheaval. 
And when the upheaval happens, everything will change. America will not survive,. a~ t~e ve~y idea of the nation-state crumbles. Chnstlamty will fall, its corrupted foundation finally giving way beneath the weight of the religion's faults. Humankind will be forced to reconsider the philosophies which brought it to this point in histo­ry. 
Our generation should be the O~e which begins the revolution, throwing the paradigms of Western thought into utter disarray and beginning a new era of human existence. 
We would be Generation One, keeping the alphanumeric, matter-of-fact attitude of "X," but with a new twist. We'd be the first of the new gen­erations, the instigators of a new worldview, dedi­cated to a global oneness of spirit and economy. 
Now wouldn't that be better than wishing we were Slackers? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those o the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
John Lucas  Allison Ebel  
Laura Ferguson  Vivian Gembara  
Sports  Graphics  
Brian Kubicki  Brendan Regan  
Viewpoint  
Carolyn Wilkens  
Lab Tech  
Scott Mendenhall  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during cx.am and vaca1ion pcriod!i.. The Ob~rver is a member of rhc fu.sociared Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 




EL CAJON, Calif. 
A man walked up to a health club crowded with noon­time customers Thursday and shot a man to death, then entered the building and fatally shot three women before killing himself. The man died in his car, a hatchback sev­eral customers at the Family Fitness Center said they had seen before. At least two of the women killed were instructors at the club in this San Diego suburb, said instructor Cindy Breise. One other person suffered minor injuries, police Lt. Bill McClurg said. An?ther ~nstructor, Rise Krejci, said a few hundred people, mcll!-dmg five to 10 children in a baby-sitting area, were inside the club when the gunmen entered. Jerry Reynolds, who was in a weight room on the upper floor, said he heard shots below that sounded like firecrackers. When he ran down­stairs, people were screaming to get out o~ the buil~ing and call police, he said. Bill Mcintosh, also m the weight room, said people started running from the room when they heard the shots. Witnesses said the young man drove up to the club and shot one person who had just left the building. He then walked in, fired several more times, walked out and shot himself in his car, McClurg said. The names of the gunman and victims had not been released. Police wouldn't say whether they knew of a motive. Four people, including the gunman, died at t~e scene. The fifth, a man, died shortly afterward at a hospi­tal, McClurg said. 
Book alleges Hope had busy sex life 
LOS ANGELES 
Bob Hope traded girlfriends with Bing Crosby and kept beautiful women in apartments near his home 'so he could visit them on his midnight strolls, Groucho Marx's son claims in an unau­thorized biography. A Hope spokesman described "The Secret Life of Bob Hope" by Arthur Marx as "just a lot of old stuff, nothing new." Marx, whose book is being published this month, 

said the 90-year-old entertainer had an Bob Hope active extramarital sex life. "It's believed Bob Hope has made love to more beautiful women than Errol Flynn, my Uncle Chico and Bing Crosby combined," Marx wrote. Stories of Hope's sexual activities have circulated in Hollywood for decades, some privately told by the comedian himself. An occasional magazine article touched on t_hem, but .Hope a~ways brushed aside the reports pubhcly. Marx s book ts the first to suggest such activities. 
For condoms, size matters, study says 
LONDON When it comes to safe sex, size does matter. A British survey found that almost one in five men complain that condoms are too tight. And too tight condoms -para­doxically-tend to slide off, said researcher Dr. Stuart J. Tovey. The findings suggest that condoms should be made in a a variety of sizes, Tovey said. In many coun­tries, only one-size-fits-all versions are available. -~he study is published in the Oct. 16 issue of The Bn.tt~h Medical Journal. Of 281 men surveyed at a London chmc, 19 percent said condoms were too snug. Of those com­plaining, three-quarters said condoms slipped off fre­quently and two-thirds said condoms ripped. "The assumption is that because you can ~low up a condo~ and put it on your head at a party, It ought to be btg enough," Tovey said. But "when y~u get the con~om out of the packet it's rolled up as a ttght rubber rmg that won't stretch at all." 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 15. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
NATIONAL Weather FRONTS: "T"T" ............... ......ar COLD WARM STATIONARY  
Pressure H L a ls.:;J HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN  


INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Oct. 15 Accu-Wcather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


V~ AsSOCUJIBd Press 

City 
Atlanta 
Boston 
Chicago 
Columbus 
Vta Assocl8ted Press GraphtcsNel 101993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Current U.S. involvement in UN peacekeeping 
Operations and number of U.S. troops as of October 5, 1993: 
Bosnia-Herzegovina, r.±~. (begun 1992) Croatia, and .JNTAC (U.N. Transitional Macedonia Authority in Cambodia) 
(begun 1992) UNPROFOR (U.N., / 
Protection Force)":...,_ 
-~ -~' 
/...., 
Haiti ...,. ­
(begun In 1993)-: 
UNMIH 
(UN Mission in Haiti) ? 

Westam Sahara Sinal In Egypt; alao {begun 1991) Beirut (begun 1948) MINURSO (U.N. Mission UNT$0 (U.N. Truce for the Referendum Supervision Organlz~tion) 
In Western Sahara) 'WUI increase to 600 
Somalia 
(begun 1993) UNOSOM II (U.N. Operation In Somalia) 

See related stories on Somalia, Haiti and Cilnton's recent stance on page five and eight. 
Prosecutors to appeal sentence 
HAMBUHG, Germany 

Prosecutors said Thursday they'll appeal a court deci­sion to free the man who stabbed tennis star Monica Seles, a ruling that many see as shocking as the attack itself. Guenter Parche, who said he wounded Seles in his obsession for her tennis rival, Steffi Graf, left jail Thursday. He spent an extra night behind bars in fear of a public angry at his light sentence. "We do not agree with the sentence," said Ruediger Bagger, spokesman for the prosecut.ors."" The prosecution had asked for a pnson """"-' term of two years and nine months, less than the maximum term of five years. Monica Seles Parche a 39-year-old unemployed lathe operat~r from eastern Germany, ha~ been. in custody since stabbing Seles with a kitchen kmfe Apnl 30 as she sat courtside during a tournament in Hamburg. 
Organizations stage anti-klan rally 
INDIANAPOLIS Civic, religious and business leaders gathered Thursday night to advance the virtues of racial harmony and con­demn a rally planned by the Ku Klux Klan this w~ekend. "The views of the Ku Klux Klan are so offensive, we wanted a rally to show that our community is one of OJ?en inclusion," said Indianapolis Mayor Step he':~ Goldsmith. "Everyone came together in hopes of makmg a strong statement." Besides Goldsmith, Indiana Attorney General Pamela Carter and Indiana United Methodist Bishop Woodie White were scheduled to speak at the "Celebration of Hope" rally. It was organized by more than 165 groups as a non-confrontational response to Saturday's Klan rally at the Statehouse. The B.~ack Panther Militia plans its own rally at the downtow? Circle on Saturday. Goldsmith said other groups dec~ded to gather two days prior to the Klan rally to avoid con­frontation. "The best thing Indianapolis can do to show what we think of the Klan is to turn our backs and not show up (Saturday)," he said. 
C 1993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 

!TIJ 0 . ~ all i) ~ u 
T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H  L  Dallas  76  56  New York  56  38  
Jerusalem  86  61  Paris  62  55  
75 53 53 60  59 34 35 40  London Los Angeles Madrid Minneapolis Moscow  56 74 61 52 59  49 62 46 37 52  Philadelphia Rome Seatlle Washington, D.C.  62 82 66 65  44 72 54 51  

Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Papal encyclicals shape Israel, PLO agree on transfer plan 
interpretations of Bible 
By LIZ FORAN 
News Writer 
Fifty years after an encyclical advocating a critical attitude toward Bible study, Pope Pius XII presented a different ap­proach of returning to the orig­inal language of the Bible, according to Father Joesph Fitzmyer, professor of emeri­tus of biblical studies at Catholic University of America. 
Now, fifty years after Pope Pius XII's encyclical "Divino Af­flante Spiritu," the Church should take a freer approach to scripture study, Fitzmyer said. 
The Church has made "a re­turn to the Bible in recent decades" after an avoidance of sorts after the Reformation Era, he said. The recent change in biblical interpretation has occurred since relations between Protestants and Catholics have improved. 
This change included a re­turn to interpretation by at­tempting to understand the lan­guage and literary modes used in biblical times rather than the later English translations. Thus, the true meaning as intended by the author is revealed. 
"The written word of the Church is no longer feared as a danger to Catholic faith," Fitzmyer said. 
This gives Catholics the free­dom to research and interpret the Bible in a new era of bibli­cal interpretation. 
In addition to teaching at Catholic University of America, Fitzmyer has taught at several schools and universities around the country including John Hopkins University and Yale University of Chicago. He is the author of more than 20 books, his most recent being on the controversial Dead Sea Scrolls. 

By NEIL MAC FARQUHAR 
Associated Press 
TABA, Egypt 

Palestinian and Israeli nego­tiators, speedily hurdling what might have been a formidable obstacle, agreed Thursday on an agenda for talks on trans­ferring power in occupied lands. 
They also set up a committee to focus on a particularly deli­cate matter, Palestinians im­prisoned or deported by Israel for fighting the 26-year-old Is­raeli occupation. 
The senior generals involved in the first two days of talks in Taba will make the decisions coloring the daily lives of Is­raelis and Palestinians under autonomy. On Thursday, they painted the first round as a suc­cessful attempt at making friends. 
"We have only just begun to talk. What was agreed today was the agenda and that is a huge step to do in one day," Maj. Gen. Uzi Dayan, the head of the security committee on the Israeli side, told a news conference. 
Sharing the dais with him was Gen. Nasr Yusuf, head of the Palestine Liberation Orga­nization's General Security. Only a few short months ago, Yusuf was actively involved in the bitter struggle between the two sides. 
"If confidence-building mea­sures are strengthened and each side respects the other, there is no doubt we might be­come friends," said Yusuf, head of the security committee for his side, after it held a brief ini­tial meeting. 
The negotiators have two short months to plan the trans­fer of power called for in the first phase of the Sept. 13 agreement between the PLO and Israel. By Dec. 13, Israeli troops are to begin their with­drawal from the occupied Gaza Strip and Jericho on the West days a week until Dec. 13. 
Dayan would only say that the work will concentrate on the withdrawal of Israeli forces in Gaza and Jericho, and a "smooth and peaceful" transfer to the Palestinian authorities. 
Palestinians want the first dividend of the talks to be the release of some 11,000 prison­ers in Israeli jails and the right of return for some 1,500 de­ported since 1967, when Israel captured the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Palestinian negotiators are seeking the release to prove to Palestinian opponents that the peace plan will bring concrete results. Israel, while not block­ing the issue, is reluctant to let anyone convicted of killing or wounding its citizens out of prison. 
One senior Israeli official, speaking off the record, said a prisoner release could not be expected while there were still security problems in the occu­
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs ... 
Strongly encourages ND Students to attend the 
Candlelight Vigil-Solidarity Against Racism and 
KKK's Cross Burning in Starke County, Indiana. 
4:45-5:30 PM Friday, October 15th Colfax Cultural Center 
914 Lincolnway West South Bend 






--~ ----~-----------~-------~-------------.. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 15, 1993 
McGovern SMC alcohol policy respects Indiana law 
continued from page 1 
and children all over the place." 
"I had never been in such a silent room, " McGovern said. "From that moment on, I could never speak about the war in a sterile, removed tone. It be­came an obsession for me to end the destruction by chang­ing the United States' policy." 
McGovern could not under­stand how the American mili­tary planned to win the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese people through bombs, sol­diers, and chemical warfare. 
"I never criticized the sol­diers themselves, mind you, but the policy makers who had en­gaged them in this pointless enterprise. It was a real no­win situation," McGovern added. 
McGovern also commented on the present conditions in the Middle East, specifically the peace negotiations between Arab and Israeli leaders. 
"I feel optimistic for the first time in many years," he said. "The future certainly looks a lot better than the past." 
McGovern concluded his speech by claiming that Amer­ica's greatest asset in foreign policy may exist within its own borders. 
"The confidence people have in our decency and humanity is the greatest source of our power and influence. I believe this will especially be the case during these next few years fol­lowing the Cold War's end," said McGovern. 
CORRECTION 
The Observer incorrectly identified a photograph in Tuesday's Accent page. The building is the community cen­ter in the O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences. The Observer regrets the error. 
Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on salt. 
~a-aa-­
54 Holes 
of lndoo1 
Miniature Golf 
Over 100 Video Games! 
Open 7 Days a "Week 
Mon.-Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. Sunday I p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Countrr. Shopping Center on Mckinley in MtsltaWaka 
254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 
Although Saint Mary's is not a "dry" campus, the College does conform to Indiana state law in restricting the consumption of alcohol to residents over the age of majority. 
The alcohol policy of the Col­lege states that students under the age of 21 may not possess or consume alcohol on campus. Students 21 years of age or older may possess alcohol in their rooms, but may not con­sume it unless everyone present in the room is over the age of 
21. Open containers of alcohol cannot be carried in the hall­ways or outdoors and kegs are prohibited on the campus premises. 
The goal of the policy is two­fold-to conform to Indiana state law and to protect the rights of other residents, ac­cording to Sherri Crahen, di­rector of Residence Life. 
"With the alcohol policy we are very confined by state law," Crahen said. "The drinking age is 21 and we have to abide by that. The only other choice would be if the College would want to be a dry campus and I just don't foresee that happen­ing." . 
Protecting the rights of stu-· dents who reside in the resi­dence halls is the most impor­tant goal of the alcohol policy, according to Crahen. 
"A student who is 21 has the right to drink in her room with the door closed, just as the other students who live near her have the right to live in the residence halls without a lot of noise or disturbances. When there is a noise violation, a stu­dent's right to drink ends," she said. 


It is because of the excessive noise and disturbances that large parties and gatherings inevitably create that causes Saint Mary's to discourage such actions on campus whether or not alcohol is present, accord­ing to Crahen. 
"We don't promote parties," she said. "If a student draws attention to herself, then we need to find out what's going on." 
The current policy does drive some students off campus to seek out social opportunities, according to Naomi Unger, a resident advisor in Regina Hall North, but the policy does not completely eliminate parties which inevitably occur. 
"I think that the policy pro­motes a positive social life. I don't feel that alcohol is posi­tive although I'm not against alcohol, but I feel that there is a more positive feeling on cam­pus when the social life (does not revolve around) alcohol," she said. 
The campus-wide policy has not changed in the past year since Crahen has been at the College, and she said that she has not been made aware of any major concerns about the policy since she has been at Saint Mary's. 
"There has not been a big push to change the policy," she said. "There have been con­cerns about things like the ID policy (for male visitors) and parietal hours and those things have been changed, but there hasn't been a push to change 
C~O?STjCkS
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to your dorm! Mon ... Thurs 11 a.m.... 9 p.m. Fri & Sat 11 a.m.... 10 p.m. 
East Location: 
$6 minimum 
525 N. Eddy St. 
$1 service charge for 
South Bend, IN 
orders under $15 
232,1177 


the alcohol policy." 
Students found in violation of the policy can face a number of different sanctions depending upon the severity of the prob­lem, the number of previous violations and the cooperative­ness of the students, according to Crahen. 
Situations where students are found in violation of the alcohol policy are documented and the student would either meet with the residence hall director, the student judicial board or the di­rector of residence life depend­ing on the severity of the act and the preference of the stu­dent. 
"The College is including more educational sanctions now," Crahen said. "We feel that part of our job is to send a message to students about al­cohol and other issues." 
In addition to educational sanctions which could include watching an educational movie or conducting an in-hall forum on the dangers of alcohol, stu­dents could also receive an of­ficial letter of warning, disci­plinary probation or college probation. 
"We try and look at each sit­uation and try to be consistent from one student to the next in deciding what sanctions to bring against a student," era­hen said. 
Unlike the policy at the Notre Dame, students who are found in violation of Indiana state law off campus are not sanctioned by the College. 
"We truthfully don't even find out about violations ofl' campus until we see students names printed in the paper," she said. "What a student chooses to do off campus is really up to her and she's treated like an adult." 
Security will only intervene in residence hall violations if they are called, according to Richard Chlebek, director of security. 
"We respond if we are called to help," he said. "It's happened where we've been called to get parties to leave, but it's arari­ty." 
"We have the best of both worlds here, we don't have to prosecute our students. but we can educate students about their responsibilities," he said. "We're not here to arrest our students, we are here to protect and help them." 
t£ttcfusive Shopping t])ay! 
Saturday, October 16th 8am-10am 
Bring student or employee ID card and receive 1Oo/o off purchase. 
University Park Mall Store Only 
Happy 2Qth Birthday 
Love, the Farley Funk 
Friday, Oct. 15 8 :30pm-l :30am, Ballroom 

SUB: crazy stuff and more 
RAWDAD 



Blues Band 
with Professor Gene Halton 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

-------------------------------------------------------~---~------------------------------------~------------------------------------, 
Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Captured pilot released by Somali strongman 
By MICHELLE FAUL 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
U.S. helicopter pilot Michael Durant, battered but buoyant, returned to freedom Thursday on a stretcher after 11 days as a captive of a Somali warlord. 
The United States said no deal was made for the release of Durant, captured in an Oct. 3 battle between U.N. troops and Mohamed Farrah Aidid's fight­ers, or of a Nigerian peace­keeper captured in a Sept. 5 gunfight. 
However, Aidid emerged with an enhanced stature as a result of the release, which he came out of hiding to announce at a conference. He appeared confi­dent and wore a crisply pressed blue-striped shirt and red tie. 
The freeing of Durant led to more calls from Congress for speeding the departure of U.S. troops from Somalia. President Clinton indicated he might be flexible on his March 31 dead­line for withdrawal. 
Durant, 32, clenched his teeth and his eyes teared as he was carried by stretcher from a walled compound and handed over to Red Cross representa­tives. He clutched a note from his wife and parents that the Red Cross gave him just before his release. 
Dr. John Holcomb of the 46th 
U.S. Army Field Hospital, who examined Durant, said the pilot suffered a broken leg, broken cheekbone and a fractured back, but appeared to have been treated fairly well by his captors. The leg was in a splint, but had not been set and was quite painful, Holcomb said. 
"Mike is fine, basically,'' Hol­comb said, adding that Durant "cried a little bit --tears of joy." 
He said most of Durant's in­juries probably were sustained when a rocket-propelled grenade blasted the tail off his helicopter, although Durant said in an interview while in captivity that he had been badly beaten by a crowd and stripped naked after his cap­ture. 
Officials said Durant would be flown Friday to a U.S. mili­tary base in Ramstein, Germany, and then taken to a military hospital in Landstuhl, where his wife, Lorrie, would join him. 
The Nigerian prisoner, Trooper Umar Shantali, was re­leased from the same com­pound as Durant. His left leg was bandaged and he walked with a cane. In captivity for nearly six weeks, he appeared healthy and in good spirits. 
He was taken to a Swedish 
relief hospital in Mogadishu. 
Aidid, who has eluded cap­ture since June despite a U.N. ransom of $25,000, looked more like a political candidate than a wanted guerrilla during his appearance Thursday. 
The news conference itself 
was a sign of how things have 
changed in the Somali capital. 
No longer a fugitive, Aidid 
emerged with an enhanced 
image and could even become a 
political player. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement of intent to Jennifer Habrych at 314 LaFortune or 309 Haggar. For more information, call Jennifer at 631-4540. 
Applications are due by Friday, October 15, 1993. 

Dame campus band, Road Apples, consisting of (left to right) Joe Curz, Rob Corley, Erik Hintz Warzecha, performs at Battle of the Bands at Fieldhouse Mall yesterday. Several other campus ""'l'a'''u in the event. 
Fugitive Aidid holds press conference 
In a well-orchestrated sce­nario, Aidid strolled into a hastily called news conference with a half-dozen journalists to announce that two captives held by his faction would be re­leased soon. 
Within two hours, U.S. Army helicopter pilot Michael Durant and Nigerian Trooper Umar Shantali were free. 
Aidid, the former Somali am­bassador to India, started by carefully reading a 45-minute statement, his reading glasses perched on his nose. Then he answered questions, looking relaxed and confident as he shot back answers. 
Happy Birthday, 
Love, Mom&Dad 
"I am not a warlord," Aidid insisted, pointing to the unilat­eral cease-fire he began almost a week ago. "We are not will­ing to break the cease-fire. We want peace." 
Asked if he had any narrow escapes during his time under­ground, Aidid said he was in Mogadishu the whole time, adding with a boastful smile: "They never came close to me." 




12;19 un. $ecurity transported a Grace 
re~;iaentlo St. JO!leph 1\tWdi~IRef!l&r with' a broken toe. '> .<·}iii;;;;,.' 1;34 p.m. Security apprehended three area re$idents near the South Dining Hall panhandling. They were issued trespa!>!;, warning leiter$ and escortedoff campus. 
1:48 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall re~;ident wa~; transport~)<! by $ecurity to the Stu· dent Health Center a1fflr he s1.1ffered an 
injuiy during a soccer game. · · · 
8:18 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident wa~; transported tri St. Joseph Medical Center fot ari injury sustained while playing ba:r kelball at the Rockne Memorial. 
8:48 Security apprehended lour on the Univeillity Village Orive. 
were isSued tr11spass w~trning let· ter~; and released to a guardian. 
TUES.OCT12 
1:10 a.m. A South Bend re~>ident was cited for speeding on Ivy Road. 
1:38 p.m. A Univen;ity employe.e re­pqped lhe theft a· portable .sttire<> tor an unlocked room in the stadium thai oc· curred on October 1. 'i' 1:41* p.m. A residlil!ll qr S!;l1,1th $end in. a vehicle entered campus without au· thorizatiOn. The man stQpped and issued a trespass warning l~er and. was told to leave, campus. , . . , . , · 2:~S J>.m;' A resident: I) $radt,Jate Hou~;ing reported ha~g telephOne call$. 7:0& p.m. AUniversity Villitge resklent repOrted receiving harassing telephone 
call$. •ihH • )N;;.,;';.;·, q;g 
9:20 p.m•. An Indiana r~sident was c~ed spee(:!ingor~ E<lison R~dnearlvy~(i·· 
WED.OCT13 

10:30 a.m;,,APangborn Hall resident reported the theft of a camera fi'Qm her room that occurred earlier this. month. 8:!15 p.m. Security tran~;porled an off· ci;impus &tl,lclent lo St. Joseph Medi¢1.11 Canter with an injury suffered while pli!:y­ing interha!l flag football. 
9:08 p,m; Security and NO Fire Oe· partment responded 10 Siegfried Hall to assist wiln a ~;tudent who collapsed. $he 
1. 
Marsha K's r Crafts & Balloons 
Cl) $1QQ off any ( Balloon Bouquet Great balloon bouquets for SYR/Formals 
North Village Mall 273.. 1570 

By PAUL ALEXANDER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 

Mohamed Farrah Aidid rec­ognizes the value of putting on a good public face. That was never more true than on Thursday, when he emerged from four months of hiding to say he was letting two captives go. 
In his neatly pressed pinstripe shirt, red tie and cane -which seems to be more for show than purpose -Aidid looked like anything but a fugitive clan leader blamed for the deaths of more than 100 U.N. peacekeep­ers, including 18 Americans. 

---------------~ 
------------------------------~------------~ 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 15, 1993 
SUDS 
continued from page 1 
factors, according to Bauer. 
"We operate on complaints, on intelligence, and by focusing on locations which have a his­tory for underage drinking," Bauer said. "Probable cause can come in many different shapes and sizes, but it's usu­ally the obvious situations." 
S.U.D.S. has also set up a bot-line which citizens can call if they suspect underage drink­ing, according to Sgt. Greg Deitchley, District Commander over the Excise Task Force in Saint Joseph County. 
Off-campus residents are li­able, to a certain extent, for underage drinking that takes place on in their homes or apartments, according to Bauer. 
"At a party, besides underage drinkers, those who are of age and are helping minors con­sume the alcohol by collecting money at the door or going to buy the kegs or are intoxicated are arrested as well," Bauer said. 
"If we go to your house and there is underage drinking going on, there are a bunch of ways you can get arrested," added Deitchley. 
The issue of private parties becoming public also arose during the discussions. 
"A private party becomes public when one of the task force finds out about it," said Bauer. "Don't try to hand us the student directory and say, 'This is a private party, here's the guest list,' either. It won't work." 
S.U.D.S. officers are also in­structed to ask where the alco­hol in question was purchased, Bauer said. In addition, all al­cohol is confiscated and dumped. 
"We'd like to cut of the source or the supplier of the underage drinking if it is pos­sible," he added. 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
dence rooms when social gath­erings involving alcohol do get out of hand because of noise, excessive numbers of people or intoxication occurs, Kirk said. 
Students caught for alcohol­related violations can face pun­ishment ranging from a verbal or written warning to suspen­sion or even expulsion depend­ing on the severity of the charge. 
But students agree that Uni­versity policy is definitely lib­eral in regard to alcohol use on campus. 
"The [alcohol] policy is very lenient, and many underage students can and do have par­ties with alcohol," said Zahm Hall sophomore Nick Capoz­zola. "But I like it that way be­cause it allows students to show maturity and responsibility about drinking." 
"Drinking is a problem on col­lege campuses many times regardless of how strict their alcohol policies may be," Pogue said. "What students need is to learn their limits when drinking if they choose to do so." 
Pogue attributes the problem of alcohol on college campuses to the sudden freedoms and re­sponsibilities students have upon entering college life. 

"Students are free to go to parties where alcohol is served," he said. "And those students who might not have drank in high school may not know their limits." 
Kirk added that most of the students charged for alcohol violations areunderclassmen. 
"The two freshman classes I have witnessed since I've been at Notre Dame, mine and the class behind me, I noticed drank too much in the begin­ning of the year," Capozzola said. "Most of them reacted in this way because they were not used to drinking this much in high school." 
But students seem to drink less and less or at least are more in control when drinking by the time they are juniors and seniors, according to senior Kendra Pickens, director of Student Life for ND Student Government. "Freshman year is a very experimental year and can get a little crazy, but I have never seen drinking here at Notre Dame as a problem." 
Another noticeable trend is the increasing number of stu­dents who choose not to drink at all, according to Pogue. 
"There are a growing number of students who don't feel 
Hey Dingle­
Hope you le it all hang out on your birthday! Love, The Girls 
• 
Ill 
ALUMNI 

!CLUB 

• 
p 
• 
M 


uncomfortable asking for a coke instead of a beer at a party," he said. 
Siegfried sophomore Tanya Krywaruczenko, Student Life commissioner of the Hall's Council on Alcohol and Other Drug Issues, agreed that there is not as much peer pressure for students to drink. 
She added, however, that 
Make the Choice 
to Make a Change 
\ 


r:·)et·ool 
drinking fool <Khing head missing &'hool. 
wt:'t~kend ~J<'trtit·s 
tapping kegs 

•
froth foam 
bitter dregs. Monday moa:nin' back to school failing grades future, too. Dt·ad-t•nd jnb 
get deprt>ssed 

I a:o;ked to think fail ttw test Laid off g-rab a litt• TV Guide Varma WhitP pmmd sonw b(•en-:. dun tht· pain watch your chance t1u~h du'>s.'n tlw drain. 



NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
Sponsored by: The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
more alternatives for student social life other than crowded parties where alcohol is the life of the party are needed. 
Her hall just began having a movie night once a week and plans are being considered for a campus bus shuttle offered on the weekends to off-campus places like bowling allies and movie theaters. 



Patriot contractor settles overcharging allegations 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The maker of the Patriot missiles used in the Persian Gulf War has agreed to pay $3.7 million to settle allega­tions that it overcharged the Army for them, the Justice Department said Thursday. 
Patriot missiles, built by the Raytheon Company, were used in Saudi Arabia and were rushed to Israel when the Iraqis started firing Scud missiles at that country, a non-combatant in the 1991 war. 
The Justice Department said Raytheon, whose Equipment Division in Marlborough, Mass., made the missiles, failed to disclose when the contract price was agreed upon that less skilled, lower-paid workers could produce the weapons. 
The 1989 contract in ques­tion was for a total of $116.9 million, but only two parts of it, worth $22.3 million, were in dispute, said Justice spokesman Joseph Krovisky. 
"The recovery of this money is yet another warning to con­tractors that the Truth in Negotiations Act's information disclosure requirements will be strictly and sternly enforced," Frank Hunger, assistant attorney general for the civil division, said in a statement. 
"Raytheon strongly dis­agrees with the government's claims. We reached this agreement in order to avoid the expense of civil litigation," said Ed Powers, the compa­ny's spokesman in Lexington, Mass. 
The government alleged that Raytheon contracts significantly overstated the skill of workers needed to ful­fill the contract's require­ments. 
Raytheon, however, said in the settlement agreement that it "believes that its disclo­sures of cost or pricing data were accurate, complete and current in all respects." 

Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, 
Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and mud1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bodrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free A'3robics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 


page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 15, 1993 
Caution to guide US policy 
By TERENCE HUNT Associa!ed Pre$$ 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton, strug­gling to define America's role abroad, expressed new cau­tion Thursday about sending forces overseas and said it had been a mistake for Wa.<;hington to take on a mili­tary mission in Somalia from the United Nations. 
The United States erred in Somalia by allowing its U.N.­directed assignment to become "the waging of con­flict and a highly personalized battle which undermined the political process," Cllnton said. 
"That ls what was wrong and that is what we have attempted to correct in the last few days." said Clinton, emphasizing that a political settlement is what the United States is promoting rather than the arrest of Mohamed Farrah Aidid. 
He said the experiences in Somalia "make me more cau­tious" about sending U.S. sol­diers overseas unless they're under American command with direct accountability to Washington. Under pressure from Congress, the president has set a March 31 troop­withdrawal deadline for Somalia. 
As for other possible deployments, he said that any 
U.S. troops sent as part of a peacekeeping force in Bosnia, for example, would be under the control of NATO, which has an American as its com­mander. 
"It ls a much more coher­ent military operation," the president said. "And I would have a far higher level of con­fidence about not only the safety of our troops but our ability to deal with that as a NATO operation." 
Clinton made his remarks at a news conference as ten­sions in Somalia eased with the release of American Oyer Michael Durant, captured 11 days ago when his helicopter was shot down in Mogadishu in a battle with Aldid's forces. 
The president said no deals were made for Durant's free· dom but he suggested the possibility of a compromise that could halt efforts to arrest Aidid t'or his possible role in the killing of 24 Pakistani soldiers. 


Haitian official killed in newest setback 
By ED McCULLOUGH 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
A U.N. police team pulled out of Haiti Thursday, weakening the prospects for ousted President J e a n -Bertrandf Aristide's return by Oct. 30 under a Jean Bertrand U._N.. plan. Aristide 
W1thm hours, gunmen assassinated the pro­Aristide justice minister. 
The assassination of Guy Malary was the latest in a series of killings and other vio­lence aimed at sabotaging the 
U.N. plan. Malary was part of the transition government in­stalled on Sept. 2 to pave the way for Aristide's return. 

Radio Metropol reported Malary was leaving the Justice Ministry building in his car when gunmen in another car shot him. A driver and two se­curity guards also were killed in a hail of bullets, Metropol di­rector Richard Widmeier said. 
Like many Cabinet members in the transition government, Malary had received death threats since joining the admin­istration, said Ira Kurzban, a friend and lawyer in Miami who specializes in Haitian issues. He said Malary handled court work for the U.S. Embassy in Haiti. 
Malary, a corporate lawyer in his 30s, was not previously as­sociated with Aristide. Kurzban said he believed the killing "shows that no one is safe." 
The assassination occurred shortly after noon. In the morn­ing, 51 Canadian Mounties flew home in a clear sign that a U.N.-brokered plan to restore democracy was foundering. 
The withdrawal represented the premature end of a U.N. plan to retrain Haiti's repres­sive police. It followed the re­treat on Tuesday of a U.S. war­ship carrying military medics, engineers and civil affairs spe­cialists in advance of the return of Aristide, who was ousted in a September 1991 military coup. 
The Canadians were in Haiti to help lay the groundwork for the U.N. plan. Aristide and army commander Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, who participated in the coup, signed the accord. 
The United Nations and in­terim Prime Minister Robert Malva! stick by the Oct. 30 date for Aristide's return, but it was increasingly apparent that vio­lence fomented by Aristide's opponents would prevent the deadline from being met. 
Armed civilians briefly took control of parliament Thursday afternoon, shouting that Ce­dras, who is to step down under the U.N. plan, should remain as army commander. He said on Wednesday he would leave if lawmakers approve a general amnesty. 
The U.N. plan ran into trou­ble on Monday when military­backed port authorities refused to allow the USS Harlan County to dock. Anti-U.N. demonstra­tions orchestrated by the mili­tary prompted Washington to withdraw the warship Tuesday and push for renewed sanctions to pressure Haiti's military to yield power to Aristide. 
U.N. envoy Dante Caputo blamed the port incident on Cedras and Port-au-Prince po­lice chief Michel Francois, an­other coup leader. 
"Those two people don't want this country to be a democratic country," Caputo told reporters Thursday just hours before Malary was killed. "They want to prevent this because they don't want to lose power." 

1 MEZZANINE LEVEL LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
OFFICE OF ALCOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION 
NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 (219) 631-7970 
October 15, 1993 
Greetings: 

Throughout the week, you have been challenged to HMake the Choice to Make a Change. The challenges have been presented in a variety of contexts:
H 

ads in the Observer, table tents in the dining halls and the Huddle, alternative beverages at dinner Tuesday, running the impaired obstacle course Wednesday, attending the SUDS presentation Thursday evening, and other daily images, news stories, and personal encounters with alcohol-related issues. The simple fact the week has tried to stress is that alcohol is the single most debilitating factor facing college and university campuses. 
As the second annual National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week draws to a close, I truly hope you have honestly analyzed the role that alcohol plays in your life. Some may feel that minor adjustments are in order while others may want to talk to someone about these issues. If you need someone to talk to, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, the University Counseling Center, Campus Ministry, as well as countless other concerned university departments will be ready to listen. Please, if needed, HMake the Choice to Make a Change. 
H 

Today, from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education will have an open house. This is an excellent opportunity to become aware of the services my office offers, and offer your suggestions on what we can do to help combat alcohol abuse. This issue of alcohol abuse is a complex issue that will not be solved, but rather it is a problem that must be managed to ensure that Notre Dame continues to be an unimpeded learning community . 
...for weekends/holidays/ birthdays/weddings or just mom's home cooking. 
Call us for all your domestic travel needs/ 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951·0585 
Sincerely, 
M~-~~ 
Mark A. Pogue Coordinator 

BUSINESS 
Friday, October 15, 1993 page 9 
Drugstore chains file antitrust suits against price fixing 
By MARIANN CAPRINO Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The nation's largest drug­store chains today filed a broad antitrust suit charging leading pharmaceutical companies with price fixing. 
The suit, filed in U.S. District Court for the middle district of Pennsylvania, accused 7 drug makers, including American Home Products Corp. and Pfizer Inc., of charging community pharmacies more than other drug purchasers. 
"We and our millions of cus­tomers must pay as much as 12,000 percent more for the same drugs," said Alex Grass, chairman of Rite-Aid Corp., which operates 2,600 outlets nationwide. 
"This preferential treatment is costing American consumers hundreds of millions of dollars annually." 
The suit seeks unspecified damages, but Grass said they could reach into the "billions of dollars." 
Drugstore chains and inde­pendent pharmacies have become increasingly incensed over pharmaceutical makers' common practice of discounting bundles of their products to huge purchasers like hospitals, health maintenance organiza­tions and mail-order drug con­cerns. 
The discounts are not based on the volume alone. Drug com­panies often are interested in getting their products on so­called formularies, or lists of preferred drugs used by hospi­tals, HMOs and mail-order pharmacies. 
Among some of the examples cited was Glaxo Inc.'s respira­tory drug, Ventolin. Grass noted that Glaxo has sold 500 Ventolin tablets to HMOs, hos­pitals and others for $63.84, while community pharmacies have had to pay as much as $183.71. That does not include the markup before the drug is sold to consumers. 
Grass said the price discrep­ancy has been a problem for some time but has become far more prominent with the emer­gence of third-party payers like HMOs. 
The suit was based on recent evidence the drugstore chains have gathered, but Grass stressed that other major drug companies may be added as additional evidence presents itself. 
The $52 billion chain drug­store industry is struggling to maintain the core prescription department. In the shift toward 
High bets on casinos 
Associated Press 
HAMMOND, Ind. 
William McEnery is eager to get a floating casino up and running on Lake Michigan. 
So eager, in fact, that he has promised Hammond $1 million a month if he doesn't have a zwfloating casino in the water by October 1994. 
Maybe he is motivated by the same urge that made him a harness driver before he was a multimillionaire. Maybe he is driven by the business sense that helped him build a gas station empire. 
"My o-nly goal," McEnery says, "is to get Hammond up and running." 
Hammond has recommended McEnery's company, Lake Michigan Charters Inc., as its riverboat operator. 
Lake Michigan Charters is only one of several gaming compiJ.nies · with· which McEnery is involved, and northwest Indiana is only one of several areas where he is trying t9 develop a riverboat project. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
·Dai~ malt(et roundup 
October 14, 1993 

1\.  
r'  V'\  J  
-A~  ~  v  
-,..,­ 
v  


3675 3625 3575 3525 3475 3425 3375 7/1/93 B/1/93 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 
McEnery, a Chicago native, sports a down-to-earth demeanor and is more com­fortable in golf shirts than expensive suits. But his net worth was reported earlier this year at $110 million, a figure McEnery says may be too low. 
He parlayed a south Chicago gas station into a chain of 50 stations in Indiana, Illinois and Florida, and says he got into the riverboat business partly by accident. 
After selling 19 gas stations for $45 million in 1988, McEnery planned to build golf courses and buy race tracks. But shipping magnate and New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner beat him to one race track deal, and that led McEnery to his first riverboat project in Alton, Ill., in 1991. 
"I didn't know much about it; so I went down to Alton and got ihat boat going," McEnery says. "It worked out well. Alton Belle brought new light to the riverboat business." 
He later created the Empress River Casino Corp. to operate two boats in Joliet, Ill. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

Drug store revolt 
Agroup of drug store chains charged seven major drug manufacturers with price fixing by discounting drugs to hospitals, clinics and health maintenance organizations and charging much higher prices to the chains. Some examples: 
Manufacturer 
Ciba-Geigy Glaxo Searle Wyeth SmithKline Schering-
Plough 
Product 

Transderm-Nitro (cardiac) Ventolin (respiratory) Calan (cardiac) lnderal (cardiac) Eskalith CR (lithium) K-Dur (potassium) 

\.: ~ 


Quantity  Discounted price to HMOs, hospi- Price to Community  Percentage difference  
tals, and others.  Pharmacies  

30 patches  $8.40  
500 tablets  $63.84  
100 tablets  $3.90  
100tablets  $4.12  
100 capsules  $17.18  

100 capsules $2.03 
$39.89  375  
$183.71  188  
$22.91  487  
$48.31  1,073  
$23.02  34  
$27.31  1,245  


Note: Lithium is adrug for manic depression. K·Dur is apotassium supplement. Wyeth is adivision of American Home Products. 
Source: Rite Aid Corp. AP managed care, more companies adding convenience-store-like controls, the leading pharma­are contracting with mail-order products and services. More ceutical companies have pharmacies, which dispense and more drugstores are selling pledged publicly to hold price medications across the country beverages, chips and snacks as increases to the inflation rate. from a few central locations. well as household products. More employees are being told But that still doesn't address they simply can't go to their Meanwhile, the nation's drug the issue of what they charge at corner drugstore if they want to makers have come under fire the wholesale level. be reimbursed for their pre­from the Clinton administration Drugmakers are reticent when scription drugs. for the high price increases it comes to discussing the con­
To combat this loss, drug­they levy on prescription drugs. tracts they negotiate with large stores have been pressured into To pre-empt outright price purchasers. 
Chrysler rebounds with huge gain 
By ALAN L. ADLER 
Associated Press 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. 

Chrysler Corp., making a habit of confounding Wall Street analysts, shocked the financial markets again Thursday with a record $423 million in third-quarter income. 
The earnings included a $58. million gain from the sale of 23 million shares of Mitsubishi Motors Corp. stock and $51 million from a favorable 
. income tax adjustment. on: a per-share basis, Chrysler earned $1.13 vs. 62 cents, or $202 million, in the third quar­ter of 1992. 
Chrysler's stock price soared on the report, closing up $3.25 .a share at $51.75-the highest since the 1960s -on the New York Stock Exchange. Several analysts raised their annual earnings estimates based on the report, fueling inv~stor appetite. · 
"it would be pretty tough not to increas·e your estimate on . Chrysler unless you expected something to fall off in the fourth quarter, and they gave no indication that would hap­pen," Kidder, Peabody & Co. analyst Michael Ward said. 
Chrysler far exceeded the highest estimates for several reasons, Chief Financial Officer Gary Valade said: 
The cost of customer incen­tives, such. as cash rebates and discounted annual percentage rates, fell to $775 a vehicle from $1,050 in the second quarter. 
The mix of sales was weight­ed toward higher profit Jeep Grand Cherokees and LH sedans instead of lower-profit small cars. Also, 88 percent of third-quarter sales were at retail. rather than discounted sales t.o corporate and daily rental fleets. 
·Overall sales were up 5.4 per­cent to $9.7 billion from $9.2 billion despite the loss of pro­duction from two factories being retooled for new models. 
"It's just .an absolute blowout quarter," said Salomon Brothers analyst Jack Kirnan. "No matter how you slice it, the operatin~ earnings were better than we were expecting." 
He said he thinks Chrysler could be earning $9 or $10 a share annually by 1996 and "could be a $75 or $80 stock." 
Operating earnings before taxes and a one-time gain from the Mitsubishi stock sale were a third-quarter record $518 mil­lion, surpassing the $510 mil­lion pre-tax earnings in 1989. 
The income would have been higher but Chrysler charged off $769 million in long-term debt it decided to repay early. If Chrysler had waited to take the charge, earnings would have been 10 cents a share ·higher. 
"We are pleased with our third-quarter results," Chairman Robert Eaton said. "But the strong performance is not a reason for us to get com­placent.'' . · · 
The third quarter· typically is the weakest for the Big Three aut6makers because of plant downtime for . model changeovers. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, October 15, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Nmre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar• Nmre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Mamging Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager......................S<eph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Pcrers OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary'• Editor............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflecr rhe policies of rhc adminisrra­rion ofeirhcr insrirurion. The news is reporred as accurardy and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represenr rhe opinion of rhc majoriry of rhe Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoinr Ediror, Accenr Ediror, Pharo Ediror, Sporrs Ediror, and Sainr Mary's Ediror. Commcmarics, lcners and Inside Columns pr~m [he views of the authors, and nor necessarily chose of The Observer. Vicwpoinr space is available ro all members of rhe Norre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­muniry and ru all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  631-4542  Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EdirorNicwpoinr  631-4541  Day Ediror/Producrion  631-5303  
Bmlncss Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  631-8839  
Ncw.il'horo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


90's alternative rock: 'the real secret' 
Dear Editor: 
Being a member of an "alter­native" band, I was both offended and saddened by Josh Ozersky's article printed on Oct. 13. I am offended because Ozersky has insulted my credi­bility as a musician; and I am saddened because his views correspond to a majority of Notre Dame students. 
As a person who so appar­ently loves music, Ozersky should be ashamed that he has been manipulated by the ma­chine that some of us call "pop­culture". He has concerned himself simply with what is popular, while at the same time discrediting all "alternative" music in the process. 
I am not writing to say that 70s music is not enjoyable. I am only writing to say that there is 90s music which pro­vides honesty, emotion, musi­cianship, "largeness of spirit, and expansiveness" in a culture where it is sorely needed. 
The problem, Ozersky, is that you do not know where to find it. To say that Pearl Jam and Nirvana is "alternative" (a hor­rid generalization) is to have watched too much MTV. There are bands out of this manipu­lating spotlight that are making revolutionary music, without 
DOONESBURY 
the money or hype. These bands have a sense of honesty and true sense of emotion in their music. Believe it or not, they play music because they love to. So be it if they make it or not. What is ironic, also, is these "unknown" bands tend to write better music and do more experimentation than most token MTV "alternative" bands and 70s rock bands. An inter­esting scenario, isn't it? 
Here is the ignorance of your generalization: "alternative" music is represented by Nirvana and Pearl Jam who are grungy Seattle bands. Hey look! MTV news is in Seattle! Hey, here's an idea: let's make a movie about Seattle and grunge! ... as Beavis and Butthead exclaim, "Seattle's cool ... " Do you see what you are doing? 
I was delighted to see you mention Black Flag, but again, you stooped and generalized. Just because you are not fond of Henry Rollins does not mean that all punk is evil. 
Ozersky, have you ever heard of New York? D.C.? San Francisco? Chicago? Boston? South Bend? The United States? Earth? Believe it or not, there are "alternative" scenes there too. And here, I'll toss a few names around for you: Fugazi, Too Much Joy, Buffalo Tom, The Coctails, Jawbreaker, Therapy?, llammerbox, Victoria's Real Secret, emiLy, and Chisel. These are "alternative" bands. And guess what? ... only ONE is from Seattle!!! 

Ozersky, it is fine to have a favorite musical taste, and yours being 70s rock. But, it is ignorant and simply wrong to say, "No good can come of 'new music'." I think you've just watched too much MTV. The music revolution will not be televised. 
If you are still not convinced, I invite you to visit me at my WVFI show. Or I invite you to accompany me to a concert in Chicago. Or even better yet, I invite you, and all of Notre Dame, to come sit in on a Victoria's Real Secret practice. I've got a seat for you centered between the two guitar stacks and a PA speaker. I'm con­vinced that you'll hear things differently after that. And fi­nally, when you say "Ah, to be a boy again!". . . smells like teen spirit to me. 
STEVEN M. SOSTAK Off-campus 

Reader spreads news of the campus media organ's error 
Dear Editor: 
There appears to be a criti­cal typographical error in The Observer (September 20, 1993). The article states that the Hepatitis A Virus (HAV) "requires prolonged, close per­sonal contact for transmission. The disease is not spread through normal, occasional contact in classrooms, dining halls, residence halls or com­mon areas of campus. 
Obviously, the article is referring not to HAV, but to the putative AIDS virus, HIV. Everybody knows that HAV (unlike HIV) transmission does not require prolonged, close personal contact and that it is often spread through norma, occasional contact in class­rooms, dining halls, residence halls, and other common areas on campus (e.g., public re­strooms), don't they? 
Here's an even easier ques­tion: Is The Observer an offi­cial media organ of the University of Notre Dame or of the Willowbrook State School? 
A.A. Howsepian, M.D. Graduate Student 
Philosophy Department Off-campus 

E itor's Note: The Observer confirmed with University Health Services that th 
ontents ofthe story were correct. Center for Disease Control protocol in Hepatitis A cases is t 
.· otify and treat family members and those living in the sam ousehold. according to Dr. James Moriarity of University Health ervtces. Students at risk were notified and treated. 


As the article reported, the virus "is spread through contact with rfaces contaminated with the feces ofinfected persons." Hepatitis A "requires prolonged, close personal contact for 
ansmission." This means that those who frequently shake hands with an infected person or use the same utensils and bathroom as an infected person could be in danger of being infected, Moriarity 
aid. . This does not mean that sitting next to an infected person in the din~g hall or in class would necessarily lead transmission of the 
vtrU$. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
TaJO a= YOu. GREAT. 
GCNTt.cMt.N, A5 YOU RETURN 7V YOURH05PfTALI7Y 5U/Tl3S,  N(Jf 7HAT I'M OPF05W7V FUN.' H!3CI<, I'M NO 57!?ANGeR  HOIAJ MANY H&RE UNOI3f<':iTAN[) THAT NAVAL-AVttiT~ AR&  
YOU TAJ(E IAI/7H YaJ 7HI3R&P­1/TAT/CN CF 7HI3WHO/£ U.f3, NAVY. I HOP/3 YOUU Bfi.AR \ THATIN  70HIGHJINK5. THeRe IA/£R£ LQ/5 OF 9-I&NANIGAf../S /?URING 7H/3 6Ut.f'alAR, BUTtU/3. KNW IAIHCR£ 7V IJI?AtU 7Hf3 t-!Nf3l  NOT G0/?'3, THAT 7H&RJ.Jtf360F OV/UZATION APPt,Y 70 7H£M, 7W? 5H'J:UOFHAN£7.3, fl/BJ&{;..  
MIN[) • .,  

'''"''~'''' .-1--.. ANO I/11
A OiAPL.AIN. 
~' 

"I'm really a timid per­son .. .I was beaten up by Quakers." 
-Woody Allen 

------------------------------------------------c--------------------­
Friday, October 15, 1993 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI GAIA SPEAKS 
Is there any logic, or taste, in the use of sheepskin diplomas? 
Few students even know about Notre Dame's practice of using sheepskin on diplomas. What has been communicated to those who do know of the practice, and who have gone through "official" channels to question such a practice, is that it is apparently another long­standing tradition Notre Dame must uphold despite its obvious drawbacks. 
What are the drawbacks that outweigh this cherished tradi­tion and why should any ratio­nal-minded person oppose the use of sheepskin? The most immediate and salient reason is that it should be an outright in­sult to a student to have a doc­ument which symbolizes the achievement of an advanced education -an education grounded in creative thinking, open-mindedness. self-criti­cism. and critical thinking -be printed on the skin of an ani­mal. 
However, to object on the ba­sis of feeling insulted would in­dicate a sense of self-pride which is not becoming of such self-examining thinkers. But here are other reasons to dis­approve of this practice: be­cause it is inhumane, unsus­tainable, grossly frivolous, un­necessarily costly, and simply unethical. 
Indeed, at first glance, it 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 

In a recent column The Observer, Oct. 11, Kurt Mills urges the Clinton Administration to send more troops to Somalia. Sending additional troops, on his view, would be "a courageous choice" designed to "demon­strate that relieving humanitar­ian suffering is indeed a 'vital national interest'. " Lamenting the fact that "a few 
U.S. soldiers have been killed" in Somalia, Mills nonetheless steels his warriorlike heart: "If it was in 'our' interest to be there in the first place -and I think that it is in the interest of the entire world to attempt to relieve suffering and decrease violent conflict -I fail to see how things have changed so fundamentally." 
In other words, death is noth­ing to the stalwart Government and International Studies doc­toral student; he will fight to the bloody finish -from the safety of his column on the Viewpoint page. 
To anyone who actually be­lieves Mills, I have a piece of advice. Nothing stops you from dropping your studies, finding the nearest military recruit­ment office, and putting your M-16 where your mouth is. In the meantime, more timid souls might wonder just what na­tional interest is served by sending American soldiers thousands of miles away to fight and die in some godfor­saken desert pesthole. 


power 
mental specialist who could tell change. 
Furthermore, breeding ani­us the content of the pesticide mals solely for human con­sprayed on our trees, or even Students have been repeat­sumption, whether for their better, a full-time faculty mem­edly shot down on issues such meat, skin or otherwise, is an ber who could head a depart­as parietals and coed dorms. energy intensive process that ment of environmental studies And even the demands of uses water and grain better uti­in the College of Arts and SUFR's uprising in 1991 have lized feeding humans directly. Letters. since been conveniently swept The large-scale grazing of live­under the carpet. But to switch stock simply and inarguably While the University has once diplomas from the skin of an destroys the environment. again resisted change on an is­animal to paper is not asking 
These, however, are insufficient sue as simple and uncontrover­very much. It does not call for a grounds to discontinue the tra­sial as this, the Registrar has at protest, a sit-in, or a petition. It dition of sheepskin diplomas, least agreed to change any in­is an issue on which students according to the Registrar. dividual student's diploma who and the administration ought to for any reason opposes the use be able to see eye-to-eye. There 
Nor does the Registrar seem of sheepskin. Students who is absolutely no logical reason to believe that money is a sig­wish to have a diploma on pa­why the University should not nificant issue. Although paper per need merely ask to speak change this policy. The use of would be as much as five times with Harold Pace, Registrar. sheepskin is antiquated, de­less than sheepskin, the and he will make that change. structive, uneconomical, and Registrar says the University He will not, unfortunately, stray serves only to uphold a tradi­has the money, and believes in from the little-known tradition tion about which most of the pampering its students with of printing all diplomas on campus is unaware. sheepskin. If the money is there sheepskin for fear that students to be spent, perhaps with the will feel they are not being suf­For once, can't the adminis­money saved by switching to ficiently honored, and would tration and students work co­paper diplomas, the University consequently be wholly and operatively to change some­could hire a fulltime environ-unanimously outraged enough thing that will benefit us all? 
Gun Prohibition might be our last shot 
Dear Editor: in fact have a God-given right the likelihood of one's getting 
to beer on Friday night. shot on a trip to the city is a lot 
Always the same bad argu­higher that the probability that ments from NRA advocates like Whether it was justified or your legal gun at home will Jason Maier (whom I hope lives not, the Prohibition reduced ever save you from some bur­far off campus). It seems that drinking across the board, and glar (or Japanese student on a radical supporters of handgun there is an important lesson to Halloween rampage). rights think that by repeating be learned from this. fallacies, they will start to be­In fact, a recent American come correct. That might be A staunchly enforced national Medical Association report how it works in public rela­law against owning a handgun proves that even having a gun tions, but not in hard thinking at all, except by application for at home actually increases about the truth. a permit based on special need one's risk of death by fatal 
-which is what they have in shooting by 30 percent (for ob­
The central argument we get Britain and many other coun­vious reasons). At home or on 
these days from Maier and his tries -would in a few years the streets, we are better off 
pals is that "stemming the legal reduce the number of guns with guns made illegal. 
sale of guns will only harm me, available on our city streets 
a law-abiding citizen" and not dramatically. Of course, Maier misrepre­
reduce the number of guns in sents the situation in usual NRA 
the hands of criminals one bit. The reason is simple eco­fashion by claiming that "stud­
And that is an outright lie. nomics. A law against a prod­ies" show that anti-gun laws 
Every serious economic analy­uct has precisely the same have not reduced the number 
sis available demonstrates con­effect as an enormous tax on it: of handgun crimes. But that is 
clusively that making some­it raises the actual price of the hardly surprising, since such 
thing illegal on a national scale product by the risk-factor cost laws have only been tried in 
and enforcing the law does involved in trading it local areas, and barely 
have a major impact on its dis­[Geanakopolis, Yale University, enforced. 
semination. 1988]. And a lot fewer thirteen Making guns illegal within a 
year old kids will be able to get given city does nothing, 
For example, whatever we a gun on the streets when one because it is so easy to get guns 
think of it, the national prohibi­costs $2000 rather than $100 in to "the market" and out 
tion on liquor earlier this cen­on the illegal market. again by car (and the roads 
tury did reduce the amount of between New York City, 
alcohol traded and consumed Maier, then, is committing the Philadelphia and Atlantic City
1 

dramatically (by as much as 50-same fallacy as those who have plenty of "couriers"). 
60 percent on some estimates) argue for legalizing drugs by. 
despite the fact that there was saying current laws only pre­But the Prohibition would 
a huge black market organized vent innocent, would-be social have had no effect either if it 
to provide it. users. That's baloney. There applied within one or two cities, 
may be a lot of crack traded and not to the entire nation. 
The prohibition did not just right now, but if we made it le­The market for illegal guns is a 
take alcohol away from those gal, there would be at least ten nationwide system, and they 
good, nice "social drinkers" times as much purchased and are so cheap and profitable be­
who just wanted a glass of wine consumed. Would that be bet­cause there is an ample origi­
with dinner. The vastly in­ter? It's hard to see how. nal supply of legal weaponry at 
creased cost of alcohol reduced the beginning of the chain. 
the amount of liquor even alco­But with handguns and semi­Therefore the solution also 
holics could get their hands on, automatics, we are currently in must come on a national level. 
and over time it certainly did this 'worst case scenario.' We We should not wait any longer. 
result in a sharp decrease in have a national addiction to 
national alcoholism rates. them, and they are legal. JOHN DAVENPORT 
Making them completely illegal Graduate Student in Philosophy 
This is a historical truth, and can only improve the situation 
we must admit it, even if we do for everyone, considering that to cause an uproar. 
Lastly, the Registrar, al­though he admires anyone with strong enough convictions to be concerned about this issue, believes it to be an insignificant issue that does not need to be addressed. But from my ex­perience with University bu­reaucracy, it is precisely such a simple issue that students might have the bargaining 
and wherewithal to 
would seem more economic, if the animals are being killed anyway, to make use out of the skins which would otherwise go to waste. But to justify using sheepskin simply because it would otherwise go to waste is akin to saying "We are going to issue medals of honor to out­standing soldiers on the skin of the dead enemies, because, af­ter all, they are already dead and the skin will just go to waste." 
In neither instance is the use of animal flesh justified. The real issue is that. whether the skin was going to be wasted or not, neither the sheep or the enemy soldier should have been killed in the first place. We do not need animal flesh in order to imbue a document with sym­bolic meaning. The material does not make the document meaningful, rather it is the symbolic meaning we attach to it. 
Is it, rtfter all, our fault that the nation of Somalia cannot feed its own people? The fact is, whether we wanted to help or not, there is little that we can do to change things there in a systemic way, except to tell the Somali people to install a worthier government and to create a market economy. 
Mills tells us that some "vital interest" is at stake for us in Somalia. What is it? "Humanitarian" platitudes aside, I can't imagine that it has anything to do with nation­al security. which, one would think, is the proper concern of a military organization (but which Mills does not deem important enough to discuss). 
After all, when was the last time you cowered in fear at the prospect of thermonuclear war precipitated by the mighty na­tion of Somalia? Or the immi­nent possibility of the Somali Marine Corps mounting a full­scale invasion of the Continental United States? It's not clear that the Somalis have the wherewithal to build a boat to get here in the first place. And if they did, it's not clear that they'd be able to advance past, say, Montauk, Long Island. 
Too many Americans have lost their lives on lost causes like Somalia. It's about time to let the Third World save itself. We have better things to do. 
IRFAN KHAWAJA 
Fischer Graduate Residence 


-~----~-­
The Observer • ETC. Friday, October 15, 1993 


& 9:30 p.m., $2. "Last Action Hero," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m.,$2. "The Lost Boys," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m., $2. 
Dancing at Lughnasa, ND Communication and Theatre, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m., $7, LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. 
Carroll Hall Haunted House, 8 to10:30 p.m., $2. 
music 
XYZ Affair, Alumni/ Senior Club, 9 p.m. 
Swing'in Crawdads Blues Band, 8:30p.m. to 1:30 a.m., The Loft, LaFortune, free admission. 
Hao/ Lulac Fall Dance, performances by Los Banditos, and Salsa and Merengue by the DJ, Stepan Center, 9 p.m., $5 couple and $4 person. 
saturday 
events 
Notre Dame vs. BYU, kick-off 6:35 p.m. (South Bend time). Notre Dame Hockey vs. University of Waterloo, 2:30 p.m., J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse, free admission with ID. All Campus Event Masquerade Ball, 8p.m. to 12 a.m., llaggar Hall SMC, bands, raffie prizes, costumes. "Bob Dylan: Don't Look Back," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m., $2. "Last Action Hero," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. "The Lost Boys," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m.. $2. Chicago Baha'i Workshop, Multi-racial ethnically diverse group,12:30 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom. 
Dancing at Lughnasa, ND Communication and Theatre, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m., $7, LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. 
sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol, 9 a.m., St. Stephen's Church. Vans will depart from Library Circle at 8:45 a.m. 
Dancing at Lughnasa, ND Communication and Theatre, Washington Hall, 2:30p.m., $7, LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. 
movies 
University Park East 
Demolition Man 7:15, 9:50 
The Program 7, 9:20 For Love Or Money 7:30, 9:40 
The Joy Luck Club 8 
A Bronx Talc 7:05, 9:35 
Striking Distance 9:30 
University Park West 
Age Of Innocence 7:15, 10 
Sleepless In Seattle 7 
Mr. Jones 9:20 

Flappers prove to be sWinging seniors 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 

Many people believe that things get better with age, and there is a school in South Bend that proves this to be true. The Forever Learning Institute, a school for senior citizens, specializes in teaching everything from lan­guages to tap dancing to aerobics. 
"They (the Institute) wanted to start a line dancing class," said Loretta Wroblewski, a par­ticipant in this year's Day of Woman at the Snite. "I was in the class, and the teacher even­tually ended up leaving, so they asked me to teach it." 
This class eventually evolved into the Forever Learning Flappers, a dance group comprised of senior citizens from ages 50 to 75. "We began about eight years ago," said Wroblewski who now, along with her husband, coordinates many of the activities the group does. 
"It started out as a Charleston group, but now we do many different things like country, polka and jazz," she said. 
The Forever Learning Flappers do many charity events at hospitals and nursing homes. "We have also performed at Scottsdale Mall and Century Center," Wroblewski said. "Sometimes it gets really busy especially when we have big­ger shows." 
The class only meets once a week for twelve weeks, and the past few weeks have been really hectic in trying to practice for the Day of Women. "We work really hard," said Wroblewski, "and now we're all tired." 
Besides dancing, the Forever Learning Flappers incorporate many skits and other types of entertainment in their acts. "One time my husband and his friend put on tutu and did a little dance," Wroblewski said laughing, "and one time we had a mock stripper." 
This year the group consists of twelve mem­bers, but for bigger shows, the Flappers usual­ly ask other performers to come and entertain in between their segments. "We have people sing and play instruments," said Wroblewski. "During our show around Christmas time we even had a female impersonator." 
The lively members of the Flappers enjoy the chances the organization gives them to meet other people who share common interests. "A lot of times people come into the group more for exercise, but they like it so much that they have stayed," laughed Wroblewski. "Music. dancing, camaraderie -it's a kind of therapy." 
Wroblewski and the Flappers will be perform­ing at the Snite during the music and dance portion of the program which takes place from 
4:30 to 6:00. "Maybe we can liven things up a bit," said Wroblewski. "It makes us feel good to see others smiling." 

Older women come 


....
------------------------------~-~-------------~---~--~---~ ----­
page 2 Friday, October 15, 1993 

on a scale of I to 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
II 
Walsh is simply one of the nation's best quar­terbacks. 
RUNNING BACKS 
[!] 
Yardage is sparse from Hall and Willis as are their opportunities. 
RECEIVERS 
w 
Drage is BYU's all-time yardage and touhdown leader. 
0-LINE 
~ 
Edwards, Empey and Pilgrim return, but they're not enough. 
D-UNE 
w 
Anchors a defense that allows more than 250 rushing yards per game. 
LINEBACKERS 
[!J 
Herget is a Butkus can­didate, but the others are inadequate. 
SECONDARY 
w 
Mitchell and Tarleton help hold opposing passers to only ISO yards per game. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
[!J 
Returners are average, bur Holtz gives BYU the edge in punting and kicking. 
COACHING 
l!J 
Edwards has directed the Cougars to 15 straight bowl games. Enough said. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
BYU is dangerous com­ing offan embarassing loss to UCLA, but probably not dangerous enough. 

Pass not only worry for Holtz 
By JASON KELLY has such great hand-eye Associate Sports Editor coordination." Greg Lane, who returned 
Footballs really fly an interception for a through the thin mountain touchdown last week, air in Provo, Utah. starts at the other corner­
At least when they're back spot and seniors Jeff 
thrown by a BYU  Burris and John  
quarterback. Sophomore sig­nal-caller John  BYU Offehse,  <I  Covington handle the safety posi­tions.  
Walsh is continu­ vs.  As difficult a test  
ing the Cougars'  Notre Dame  as  it will  be for  
great quarter­back tradition of  Defens~;·'  Walsh, it will be equally difficult for  

Jim McMahon, Steve Young and Ty Detmer. 
Already this season, Walsh has completed 119 passes for 1570 yards and 11 touchdowns. 
"One thing you know when you play BYU is that they always have a great quarterback," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "Walsh has had an excellent year. He has a quick release, a good knowledge of the game and he's an excellent leader." 
But Walsh faces his stiffest test of the season Saturday against the Notre Dame secondary. 
It is a deep and experi­enced group, led by sopho­more cornerback Bobby Taylor, who has two inter­ceptions and has broken up five passes this season. 
"Bobby Taylor has been unbelievable," Holtz said. "He plays the ball so well when it's in the air, and he the Irish secondary. 

BYU brings its all-time leading receiver Eric Drage into Saturday's game. He has caught 12 passes this season for 213 yards to move into first­place in the Cougar record books with 2, 736 total receiving yards. 
Even a strong pass rush may not be enough to stop the Cougars' passing threat. Walsh's numbers have been high despite being sacked 26 times already this year. 
Holtz believes the Irish must find a way to control BYU's explosiveness. 
"We can't win a shootout," Holtz said, "because we're not consis­tent." 
The Irish have been consistent on defense this season, already shutting out two opponents. It's the first time a Notre Dame team has had two shutouts 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel Wide receiver Eric Drage set a school record for touchdown receptions earlier this season. 
since 1977-a national championship season. Another shutout won't be an easy task this week. 
The Cougars average nearly 30 points a game, but if their passing game is eliminated, their scoring will fall accordingly. 
Fullback Kalin Hall is the leading rusher with 44 carries for 245 yards and four touchdowns. Tailback Jamal Willis is next with 139 yards on 32 carries. 
Not exactly fearful num­bers, but Holtz, as usual, is quite fearful. 
"The run scares me every bit as much as the pass," he said. "BYU does have a balance and I'm scared of their ability to run the ball." 
Linebackers Anthony Peterson and Pete Bereich are both expected to be in playing shape, although it is not yet certain. 
Justin Goheen, Jeremy Sample and freshman Kinnon Tatum have filled in admirably in their absence, creating un­expected depth at the line­backer position. 
"When we started the season we were concerned with the depth at line­backer," Holtz said. "We were forced to develop some depth." 
Cougars vulnerable to ground attack 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz isn't holding a grudge against Kevin McDougal. 
Notre Dame's starting quarterback said last week that he has trouble focus­ing when the Irish are a big favorite, inciting some strong words Notre Dame f r o m 
Offense 
Holtz. 
vs.
H e went so BYU far as to 
Defense 
say he felt the quarterback job was wide open and many believed that Paul Failla would get his first career start Saturday against BYU. 
Tuesday Holtz set the record straight. 
"I discussed it with [Kevin]," Holtz said. "The comments about the start­ing job] were taken out of context. Kevin McDougal is a fine young man. I would think McDougal would start." 
Last week's 44-0 rout of Pitt McDougal's worst game this season, but after his two other subpar per­formances this season [against Northwestern and Purdue] he has responded with a big game. 
Notre Dame will need a big game from its quarter­back to knock off Brigham Young, a lopsided loser to UCLA last Saturday. 


The 68-14 loss dropped the Cougars from the Top 25, but it didn't make Holtz drop his weekly rev­erence for the opponent. 
"We're going to play an outstanding football team, I don't care what you saw against UCLA" Holtz said. "This is a very solid BYU team that didn't play as well as they are capable of playing against UCLA. " 
The Cougars' defense allows 32.4 points per game and 408 total yards, mostly on the ground, which plays directly into Notre Dame's hands. 
Freshmen tailbacks Handy Kinder and I:tobert Farmer are becoming a bigger part of the Irish offense each week, and Lee Becton opened some eyes with the first 100 yard performance of his career a week ago. 
But BYU returns seven starters on defense to counter the Irish attack. 
Butkus Award candidate Todd Herget leads the defense at outside line­backer, and all-WAC nose tackle Lenny Gomes an­chors the line. 
Notre Dame also has an award candidate­Lombardi semifinalist Aaron Taylor-opening holes on the offensive line. With the steady play of guard Mark Zataveski and center Tim Huddy, the Irish hold a distinct advan­tage in the trenches. 
Some questions remain in the offensive line, with Jeremy Akers and Mike McGlinn the latest starters. 
Todd Norman is expect­ed to return to the starting lineup at tackle in place of McGlinn, but Holtz isn't ruling out any possibilities. 
"We'll have to see what happens this week [in practice] and go from there," he said. 
BYU's weakness against the run notwithstanding, Holtz is concerned about his ability to move the ball on the ground. 
"I worry about our abili­ty to run the ball," said Holtz, who just last week was looking for an extra ball because he had so many players who could run with it. 
Throwing the ball has never been an easy task for the Irish this season, and BYU cornerbacks Patrick Mitchell and Vic Tarleton hope to keep it that way. 
McDougal's passing was erratic a week ago, but Failla connected on four of five passes in his first extended action. 
A hostile crowd also con­cerns I Ioltz. 
"''m worried about the cadence and our ability to check off on offense," he said. "We won't be as sharp on offense because of the crowd." 
QUARTERBACKS 

McDougal's inconsis­tency drops his rating again. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Kinder and Becton are thriving, while Zellars continues his solid play 
RECEIVERS 
l!Y 
They may be the best group Notre Dame has ever had. 
0-LINE 
w. . 
Holtz call~d last week's performance the best of the season. Lineup still unsettled though. 
D-UNE 
1.2.1 
Moving Knight into lineup adds speed and Flanigan was made to play inside 
LINEBACKERS 
~ 
Berich and Peterson should be at full strength soon, and the depth is a plus. 
SECONDARY 
rhl 
Will face ~ test against BYU but have responed all year long 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
l!J 
Return u~its are solid but kicking game still not up to par. 
COACHING 
l!J 
Holtz is Holtz. The best in the country. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
Much has been made about the tough enviro­menr in Provo, but little mentioned about their soft defense. 



' 


beat byu ~ 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 45 BYU 13 
~~e-Nig~tSp~ciaill""" -,.,i4':t:-~~-,r-Pa'rt;F;ck-,r 114''Lt;-;, 

I 1-i4~ L':ge :: 1T<$J;~:T~'zza :: 4-14" L<;lrge :: 1 Topping P~zza: ·~·· ··· · "'" '' '"' I 1 Topping Pizza II or 2-14" Large II 1 Tc;>ppmg 11 wuh 2 cans Of Coke 1 ,.HOURS I $S95 II 1 Topping Pizzas 11 Ptzzas II and Brea~sttx I ~:7 .... .. 0.,...a.m., 1:00 a.m.
Tht; 11~0 I +Tax 11 $1195 +Tax 11 $2295 $1 QOO ! fn,Sat.ll.~q a.m. , 3:00a.m.1 .. -~ ~ +Tax II ;+Tax I Sun:Noon,l:OOa.m.
Addmona1Toppings.95~each rAJ . 1Additiona1Toppings95~each rllti'AJVIfb.IIAdd·· IT . h ~ 
95

.J1: ~
V I'd w· h A 0 h Co ltlona oppmgs. ¢ eac 
t a I It ny t er upon Not Valid With Any Other Ccupon .Jt:y 1· d W'th A Oth C
t: -------o a 1 1 ny er oupon 
Fast Hot Perfect 



Walsh co~ntinues tradition of BYU quarterbacks 
By JOSH LUKE very pleased with my deci~ion and I have 
/( Jt.l 

BYU-The Daily Universe been from the start." 
" I
Why is it that the best high school quar­I was ready to play again last year terback to ever come out of the state of before the game at Notre Pame, but, the California chose to come to BYU instead of coaches insisted that I redtshirt and gave all of the other schools who were after (Ryan) Hancock the nod," ~alsh said. 
him? Not only was Walsh recruited by He feels that a lot of positives came as a some of the top schools in the nation such result of last year's injury. : as Miami and Florida State, but, he could 
i 

have played anywhere he wanted. "I got a lot more knowledge of the offense Walsh, a red-shirt sophomore from and I got some game exp~rience-there is Torrance, Calif., chose BYU because of its nothing better for a young quarterback reputation. than game experience," he said. 
When asked what game~ he most looks 
"I chose BYU because it is one of the best forward to this year, he sa~d that you can 
passing schools in the nation," Walsh said. never overlook any oppon~ent, but, natu­
"I felt comfortable with the offense and I rally he looks forward to t~e Holiday Bowl 
knew I would have the opportunity to start and playing the teams th!at he grew up 
as a true sophomore." watching on television sue~ as UCLA and 
He added that the BYU coaches were Notre Dame. Beating Notte Dame would 
very honest with him from the start. BYU gain a lot of respect for the :WAC, and BYU, 
coaches called Walsh "the only blue chip which is long overdue. 
high school quarterback ever to sign with 
I 

BYU." His disappointing game against UCLA has 
Walsh said that the pres­not dampened his attitude though. The 
sure of coming to a Mormon entire team played poorly.i and has put it 
school as a non-Mormon has behind them to prepare fo~ the big game 
never really effected him. this week against Notre Darhe. 
! 
I 

"I don't think it is any dif­While Walsh said it is an honor to have
battle oung
ferent than if I had gone to his name mentioned amongi the list of great
(younger brother of NFL
USC, UCLA, or Miami. It is BYU quarterbacks such asI Jim McMahon,
MVP Steve Young) for
always scary for a kid to go Steve Young and Ty Detmer, he feels no
the starting job at quar­
away to school and leave his pressure to perform up to t~eir level.
terback, I asked him if
family," Walsh said. "We are all different styles of players," 
there had ever been a time when he regret­
With the season ending shoulder injury Walsh said. "And there 1s no room for
ted his decision to come to BYU. Without
Walsh suffered last year, and the yearly comparison."
hesitating, he replied, "No, never. I am 
Others To Watch 

ERIC DRAGE Holds BYU records for receiving yardage and touchdown receptions. 


KALIN HALL The senior fullback leads Cougars in rushing. 


LENNY GOMES All-WAC selection in 1992 and an Outland Trophy candi­date this year. 
The Most Popular Number on Campus! 
page 4 

COUGARS 
HIGHAM YOUNG 

La Edwards 
Career Records: Overall 191-67 -3; vs. Notre Dame, 4-4. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: All at BYU 
Career Highlights: Led BYU to the 1984 National Championship, and was consesus coach of the year that season. He has lead his team to 17 bowl appear­ances and 15 WAC titles. 
-----1993 Statistics 
RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE 
YDSIGM NO YDS AVG TD LG Hall 61.3 44 245 5.6 4 46 A TOT PBU SAC FR Heimuli 43.3 33 173 5.2 1 19 Harget 31 46 1 1.0 0 
Willis 34.8 32 139 4.3 2 27 Mazzona 23 38 2 0.0 0 Christensen 16.0 24 80 3.3 0 21 N. Hall 21 37 4 1.0 0 Anderson 8.4 4 42 10.5 0 21 Gomes 21 28 1 1.0 0 Ta~eton 8 23 6 2.0 1
PASSING 

T. Hall 11 19 2 2.3 1 
Muirbrook 15 19 0 0.0 0 RATING COMP ATI PCT YDS TD INT LG Hughes 11 18 1 0.3 0 Walsh 144.4 119 192 62.0 1570 11 5 69 Damuni 7 15 0 1.0 0 Young 212.5 5 6 83.3 53 1 0 20 Brock 9 14 0 2.0 2 Clements 116.3 7 11 63.6 69 0 0 27 
Christianson 8 13 1 0.0 1 Mitchell 0 12 6 0.0 0RECEIVING PiUs 10 12 0 0.3 0 Dawson 6 9 0 0.0 0 
NO YOS AVG TO LG Cook 3 5 1 0.0 0 Drage 32 538 16.8 3 69 Pollock 0 2 0 0.0 0 Doman 18 271 15.1 3 30 Sralla 2 2 0 0.0 1 Anderson 11 131 11.9 2 40 
Chamberlain 2 2 0 0.0 0 Heimuli 11 114 10.4 0 18 
SCORINGFIELD GOALS 
NO AVG TD LG

1993 BRIGHAM YOUNG 
Anderson 6 25.8 0 36
17·39 40-49 50+ LG Nowatzke 2 23.0 0 27Herrick 4·5 1-2 0-0 40 

SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
1 H. McCullough 
2 Casey Mazzotta 

9 Del'lnis Sirnroons 
10 Vic ltlieton 
11 lf;yte Rol:l8!!s 
~ S~Me!ements 
13 Jce Herrid< 
14 'im~g 
l5 ~~rruli 16 GiB1h Fennegan 17 CoryGalk 1! Eric Dllge 19 .Jonljmn Ord 24 Kalin Hall 25 s. Cmsten5en 27 J(JI Polrmt 
28 f/elt( Hillfietd 
2.8 Ron Simpsrl 29 .Irina! Willls 30 Jolin Millef 31· ~Oiill( 32 K.AhYou 
~.-Merkley
35 FChristianson 37 Justin 'f&To 39 Chad Knowles 41 Brian lttgtles 4a _Tim Nowiit2ke ~ w, Hickrren 
·. 45 r.o: Biegel 
·-Her~ 
DB DB DB WR QB LB DB DB 
08 
5-9 175 So. 6-D 195 Sr. 6-1 185 Jr. 6-1 165 Sr. 6-5 215 So. 
6-4 200 Fr. 5-9 175 Sr. 6-3 185 Sr. 6-2 185 Jr. 
P 5-11 200 Sr. 
QB 
FB 
DB DB WR WR 
FB 
HB DB LB 
6-1 185 Jr. 6-2 210 So. 6-3 190 Sr. 6-1 190 Jr. 6-1 180 Sr. 6-1 190 So. 5-8 195 Sr. 6-1 190 Sr. 6-1 195 So. 6-0 200 Jr. 
DB 5-11 175 Jr. 
HB DB DB DB DB DB DT 
FB 
LB WR LB 
6-3 215 Jr. 6-0 160 Jr. 6-1 205 Fr. 6-1 190 So. 6-0 190 So. 6-3 205 Sr. 6-3 240 Jr. 6-3 200 So. 6-4 230 Jr. 6-2 195 Jr. 6-2 205 Fr. 
FB 5-10 195 So. LB 6-3 230 Sr. 
QB 
c 
COUGARS 1993 ROSTER 
46 Shay Muirbrook 47 Ted Dawson 49 Nathan Hall 50 Neal Daley 54 Larry Harmer 56 Travis Hall 58 R. Chamberlain 61 M. Meservey 64 Ron Simmons 65 Jim Edwards 65 Nathan Gibbs 66 Mike EnlJey 67 Troy Stoddard 70 Evan Pilgrim 75 Matt Redden 76 Eli Herring 78 Tlm Hanshaw 80 Kaipo McGuire 82 James Johnson 83 Bryce Doman 84 Mike Johnston 86 Jason Cooper 87 M. Matsuzaki 88 T. Saluone 89 Todd Jorgensen 90 Lenny Gorres 91 D. Williams 92 Andrew Nash 93 Scott Sralla 97 Randy Brock 99 Greg Pitts 
f G ......Jrm Edward~ 
; lL..... Mif<el'mpe~ __ . ;: FL Micah Matsuzakl ; SE Eric Drage! RB ·l<alfn Hall , 
LB  6-0 215 Fr.  
LB  6-2 230 Sr.  
LB  6-4 225  Sr  
LB  6-4 240 Fr.  
DT  6-4 240 Fr.  
DE  6-6 240  Jr.  
LB  6-4 210 So.  
OT  6-4 275 So.  

C 6-4 255 Sr. c 6-4 250 Jr. OG 6-1 280 Jr. OT 6-7 290 Sr. C 6-5 250 Jr. OG 6-4 275 Jr. DT 6-5 235 So. OT 6-6 300 Jr. OG 6-6 275 Jr. WR 5-11 175 Fr. OT 6-5 235 Fr. WR 6-1 190 Jr. WR 5-10 175So. 

PUNTING  Sept. 4 Sept. 11  
Sept. 18  
Boardman  NO 5  AVG 42.3  LG 57  Sept. 25 Oct. 9  
INTERCEPTIONS  Oct. 16  
Oct. 23  
Christianson Tarleton  NO  YOS 0 0  TO 0 0  LG 0 0  Oct. 30 Nov. 11  
Glynn  0  0  0  Nov. 20  
Nov. 27  

WR WR TE TE NG DT DT NG DT 
DT 
6-1 180 Fr. 6-0 185 Sr. 6-2 210 So. 6-4 240 So. 6-2 265 Sr. 6-6 235 Jr. 6-4 265 Fr. 
6-5 265  Jr.  
6-6 265  Jr.  
6-5 275  Jr.  


DEFENSE  
RUSH  REC  RET  TOT  AVG  
Drage  0  538  39  5n  115.4  
Hall  245  59  0  304  76.0  
Heimuli  173  114  0  287  71.8  
Anderson  42  131  155  328  65.6  
Willis  139  110  0  249  62.3  
Christensen  80  57  154  291  58.2  
Doman  0  271  0  271  54.2  
Nowatzke  0  123  46  169  33.8  
Matsuzaki  0  130  0  130  26.0  
Saluone  0  74  0  74  14.8  
McGuire  0  12  0  12  12.0  
Morris  0  27  13  40  8.0  
Johnston  1  0  36  37  7.4  
Knowles  14  17  0  31  6.2  
Lewis  0  29  0  29  5.8  

i TB Jatnal Willis . , ··· .· Jr. ; 
[.-. --------. ' : -'·~----~-··<<-_:.J 
.1-4 .,. , . .•·; 
J;' ,;; 
• t' •.: ·,·,·~ ~_..·.:.·..,.,_ . . , ... '-;
•• ~~---·.· ... ·~_+_ 
.,r If 
~F .~~):~:.~~~,~~-,;, 
~-.·N·_·_.··.·:J 
·~ 
1

_~ ~ ~-~ _~,J,_ ~~-~~~:,_~ ~~-~~;:~~~;~~~~.(tf r~ 11 ~ I ~ ~ 
70 
The Obser.ter/Brendan 
Sr. ~ Sr. f Sr. ·( 

Christensen 7 22.0 0 27 Morris 1 13.0 0 13 Biegel 2 6.5 0 13 Baldwin 1 2.0 0 2 
at New Mexico 34-31 HAWAII 41-38 at Colorado State 27-22 AIR FORCE 30-3 

KICKOFF RETURNS 
at UCLA 14-68 
NO AVG TD LG
NOTRE DAME 5:30 

Drage 5 7.8 0 15 
Johnston 5 7.2 0 22
FRESNO STATE 1:30 
at Utah State 12:00 

PUNT RETURNS 
at San Diego State  6:00  
UTAH  12:00  NO  
TEXAS-EL PASO  12:00  Drage  5  

TEAM STATISTICS 
NO 

First Downs  101  
by rushing  50  
by passing  40  
by penalty  11  
Total yardage  2041  
Offens1ve plays  344  
Avg. yards per play  5.93  
Total yards I game  408.2  
Rushing yards  1292  
Rushing plays  213  
Rushing yards I game  258.4  
Passing yards  749  
Passes completed  62  
Passes anempted  131  
Passes intercepted  2  
Passing yards I game  149.8  
Fumbles -fumbles lost  20-8  
Penalt1es -penalty yards  31 -236  
3rd down conversions  27-74  
percentage  36.5  
4th down conversions  3-10  
percentage  30.0  

COUGAR STADIUM 

AVG  TO  LG  
17.2  0  32  
OPP  
119  
38  
72  
9  
2212  
403  
5.49  
442.4  
520  
194  
104.0  
1692  
131  
209  
5  
336.4  
17-8  
39-416  
31-72  
43.1  
3·6  
50.0  

Built in 1964 Capacity: 65,079 Largest Crowd: 66,235 (1962) Surface: Grass NO's Record There: first meeting 
Considered one of the toughest stadiums in the country if you are a visit­ing team. Holtz com­pared the enviroment to traveling to Miami and the Orange Bowl. 
Friday, October 15, 1993 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
FIGHTING IRISH 
RUSHING 
YOS/GM 75.4 60.7 50.8 20.5 14.8 12.6 
PASSING 
1993 Statistics 
ALL-PURPOSE 
377  5.8  2  40  RUSH  REC  
364  5.9  1  33  Becton  377  53  
305  4.8  3  23  Miller  0  191  
123  4.2  4  43  Kinder  364  0  
74  3.2  1  9  Zellars  305  49  
63  3.3  2  13  C. Johnson  0  90  
Mayes  0  309  
Dawson  8  171  
McDougal  123  0  

RATING  COIMP  ATT  PCT  YOS  TO INT LG  Clark  74  8  
150.2  52  82  63.4  825 3  4  55  Farmer  63  0  
211.6  10  12  83.3  144 1  0  80  Burris  9  0  
RECEIVING  Jarrell Stafford  0 0  16 25  
Chryplewicz  0  34  
NO  YOS  AVG  TO  LG  Edwards  34  0  
13  309 23.8  2  80  Lytle  33  0  
10  171 17.1  0  32  Failla  19  0  
10  49  4.9  1  16  
9  191 21.2  0  50  
6  53  8.8  1  12  
4  90  22.5  0  43  


SCORING
FIELD GO 
TOPATx2PATx1 FGPTS
1993 NOTRE DAME 

Pendergast 0 0 20 9 47
17-39 40-49 50+ LG 

McDougal 4 0 0 0 24Pendergast 9-11 0-0 0-0 34 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
PUNTING 
NO 1 18 
NO 2 2 1 
DEFENSE 
T SAC FR 31 16 27 3 0.5 0 30 16 46 0 3.5 0 28 4 32 3 0.0 0 26 4 30 5 1.0 1 18 11 29 0 2.0 3 21 6 27 2 0.0 1 20 6 26 0 0.5 0 19 7 26 4 2.0 0 17 9 26 1 0.0 1 16 10 26 0 1.0 0 15 6 21 3 0.0 0 16 1 17 0 0.0 0 11 2 13 0 0.0 0 10 3 13 0 2.0 0 7 6 13 0 1.0 0 9 3 12 0 0.0 0 7 5 12 1 1.0 0 5 4 9 2 0.5 0 4 3 7 0 0.0 0 3 2 5 0 0.0 0 2 3 5 0 0.0 0 1 3 4 0 0.0 0 3 0 3 1 0.0 0 2 1 3 0 0.0 0 2 1 3 0 0.0 0 0 1 0 1.0 0 
Eighth season at Notre Dame. 

Records at Notre Dame: Overall 71-18-1; at Home 35-7­1; on the Road 34-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall 185-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; VS. Pitt 5-2. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons). Arkansas (7 sea­sons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset No. 3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. Topped No. 3 Michigan this year. 
RET  TOT  AVG  
0  430  86.0  
209  400  66.7  
0  364  60.7  
0  354  59.0  
232  322  53.7  
0  309  51.5  
0  179  29.8  
0  123  20.5  
0  82  16.4  
0  63  12.6  
6(1  69  11.5  
0  16  8.0  
0  25  6.2  
0  34  5.7  
0  34  5.7  
0  33  5.5  
0  19  3.8  


Zellars 4 0 0 0 24 Becton 3 0 0 0 18 Burris 2 0 0 0 12 Edwards 2 0 0 0 12 Farmer 2 0 0 0 12 Mayes 2 0 0 0 12 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG C. Johnson 3 77.3 1 100 Miller 4 16.3 0 20 
PUNT RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG Burris 1 60.0 1 60 Miller 17 8.5 1 56 B. Taylor 1 3.0 0 3 
First Downs by rushing by passing by penalty 
Total yardage Offensive plays Avg. yards per play Total yards I game 
Rushing yards Rushing plays Rushing yards I game 
Passing yards Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted Passing yards I game 
Fumbles -fumbles lost Pena~ies -penalty yards 3rd down conversions 
percentage 4th down conversions percentage 
Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks com­bined for 225 yards on 36 carries as the Irish battered away at the Cougar defense. 
Due to injuries BYU was forced to start fourth string quarterback Ryan Hancock. It looked like a positive in the first half as he finished with 224 yards on 18-32 pass­ing in the first two periods. 
But Hancock's success ended after the Jerome Bettis intermission, as the Irish defense tight­ened. 
The offense slowly built on a 19-0 halftime lead, high­lighted by Bettis' two scores. 
•

er1es 
The Records: 
Notre Dame leads 1-0 
Last ND Win: 1993 
Last BYU Win: none 
Longest Series Streaks: 
ND-1 (1993-present) 
BYU-none 
At Cougar Stadium: 
first meeting 
NOTRE FIGHTING 
1993ROSTE.. 
1. 
Derrick Mayes SE 6-1 205 SO. ­

2. 
Dan Farrell FL 6-0 164 . • · 


2. 
LeShane Saddler FS 5-11 194 Si." · 

3. 
Ron Powlus QB 6-4 210 Fr. 

4. 
Lee Becton TB 6-0 190 .Jr. 

5. 
Paul Failla OB 6-2 193 Jr. "" 

6. 
Mike Miller FL 5-7 157 Jr. 

7. 
Dean Lytle FB 6-3 240 Sr. 

8. 
Clint Johnson SE 5-8 180 

9. 
Jeff Burris FS 6-0 204 

10. 
Adrian Jarrell FL 6-0 194 

11. 
Tom Krug OB 6-5 


11. 
Tom MacDonald ISS 6-0 189 

12. 
K. Pendergast • K 5-10 168 Sr. .... 

13. 
Brian Ford : K 6-4 190 Ft"'" · 


14. Emmett Mosley iWR 5-9 170 Fr.;~;~;rr·;· 
14. Colin Rittgers ' P 6-2 210 So .. .. 
15. Kevin McDougal iOB 6-2 194 St ··..'··'"'"~'B.<.·ii:ri· 
16. Chris Parenti IQB 6-1 193 Sr.> 
16. 
Brian Perry 'DB 6-1 205 Fr. 

17. 
Brian Magee .SS 5-10 199 So. .~ 

18. 
Wade Smith OB 6-3 178.&t ' 

19. 
Anthony Swiney ;DB ~11 180 

20. 
M. Andrzejewski :SS 5-7 163 


20. 
Cikai Champion WR 5-11 

21. 
Bobby Taylor FS 6-3 

22. 
Rob Leonard KP 6-1 


22. 
Shawn Wooden .CB 5-11 

23. 
Brian Baker SE 5-10 

24. 
C. Stafford Fl ~10 

25. 
Brent Boznanski KP 


25. 
Randy Kinder ' TB 

26. 
Drew Marsh K 


26. 
Mark Monahan DB 

27. 
Tracy Graham 

28. 
Ron Hardin 

29. 
John Covington 

30. 
Marc Edwards 

31. 
Robert Farmer 

32. 
Willie Clark 

33. 
Greg Lane 

34. 
Brian Meter 


34. 
Ray Zellars 

35. 
Tim Klusas 


35. 
Richard Rolle 

36. 
Jeremy Sample 

37. 
Travis Davis 

38. 
Rick Lozano 


38. 
Sim Stokes 

39. 
Kinnon Tatum 


39. 
Marcus Thome 

40. 
Kevin Carretta 41.Joe Babey ·LB 


42. Mike Frascogna !WR 
42. 
Alton Maiden ·DE 

43. 
Bill Wagasy LB 

44. 
Jim Flanigan ·NT


NO 127 80 41 6 2394 396 6.05 399.0 1425 302 237.5 969 62 94 4 161.5 7-5 29-226 33-71 46.5 4-6 66.7 
OPP 99 36 59 4 1713 384 4.46 285.5 499 188 83.2 1214 128 196 8 202.3 10-7 42-357 37-86 43.0 3-5 60.0 


page 6 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 15, 1993 
COVER STORY 
Secondary 
continued from page 1 
template the series of reads and cover­ages that flash through each of the backs' minds as they set up in a certain pass coverage. 
That is where the teamwork comes in. Each man has his own responsibilities, but the key to this group is that each knows the others' position and the oth­ers' responsibilities, and is confident that the other man is going to get the job done. 
"Coach (Holtz) has had us all at each others' positions so we know in each coverage what each of us is going to do," says Covington, the strong safety. "Like if I'm at safety, I know what the corner is going to do. 
"That's basically what we have going. We've played together for a long time, and we feel for each other in a certain way. We've gained that confidence in each other and that alone brings us together." 
Perhaps more than any other unit on the field, the defensive backfield must be on the same page at every moment in the game. If one back is in the wrong coverage for just one play, the results can be devastating. 
Unfortunately, that is when the defen­sive backfield gets the most attention. 
"Everything that happens in the sec­ondary is a chain reaction," says Taylor. "We all have different jobs in each indi­vidual play, but we know if we get beat, it's a touchdown." 
It is for this reason that the secondary must stick together, something that has come naturally for Burris, Lane, Taylor, and Covington. 
"I think the main thing is that ofT the field we are all tight," adds Taylor. "We try to do things together like go out to eat or hang out on weekends after the game. 
"We communicate well, we're like a family. We're all brothers." 

"We just really hit it off as a group," says Lane. "We're always working together and pulling for each other; we do everything as a group." 
Burris, Lane, and Covington are seniors, and have stuck together since the first day they put on an Irish uni­form. One would think that the hardest part would be coming together with a new member of this tight group. 
Taylor first broke into the starting lineup against Pitt last season, as Lane was forced to miss the game with a sore neck. The sophomore from Longview, Texas has been irreplaceable ever since. 
"Bobby just fit right in," says Lane, "We just have this natural bond togeth­er. We always know what the other is going to do and where the other is going to be." 
"When he (Taylor) came in as a fresh­man we welcomed him with open arms," says Burris. "Myself, Greg Lane, and John Covington, we've been around and we know the system. We were all in the same position so we had to learn together. 
"That's how we molded together, and with Bobby we just kind of open-armed him. It was a little brother thing at the time. He fit in well. " 
Burris could be called the leader of this group. A co-captain and preseason second-team All-American, the 6-foot 204 pound free safety has all the skills to follow last year's leader of the defen­sive backfield, Tom Carter, into the NFL. 
"Jeff is just tenacity. He just has a knack for being wherever the ball is going to be," says Taylor. "He's some­times like a ball-hog, because wherever the ball is Jeff is going to be right around it." 
His athletic ability is so coveted that Holtz has used him as an offensive threat as well, inserting him in the back­field for certain plays. All Burris has done is score six touchdowns, including a 60-yard punt return for a touchdown last week. 
Burris has also started 31 straight games, dating back to 1990. "Jeff is Mr. Reliable," adds Lane, "Always where the action is." 
Lane is an interesting story. Like Burris, he was an All-American running back coming out of high school in Austin, Texas. As a freshman, he was thrust into the starting defensive back­field after an injury to another Irish All­American, Todd Lyght. Since then he has started 17 more games and notched 102 tackles, including 57 last season. 
Not bad for a player who is generously listed as 5-foot-9, 180 pounds. 
"I think he is just determined," rea­sons Taylor. "He is kind of short and I'm 6-3, so I call him a midget sometimes. But I think he is just determined to go out and do his best everytime he steps on the field." 
"Greg doesn't have the height and the reach that Bobby has, but he makes it up with his, position," states Covington. "He's in the right position all the time." 
"Greg is fundamentally sound. I would call him the cool man of the group," says Burris. "He's always mellowed out, he's never overly-excited. He's always con­fident." 
If Lane is the mellow man of the group, the hard-nosed Covington is defi­nitely at the other end of the spectrum. At a compact 6-foot-1 and 211 pounds, Covington is a physical specimen and an intimidating force on the gridiron. 
"John," says Burris, "He's the hitman." 
Covington, a former outside line­backer, mans the strong safety spot so the Irish can take advantage of ability to support the run, and his penchant for punishing opposing receivers. "You want to put their best players out of the game," announces Covington. 
"No, I would like to get big hits, but the first thing in a game are takeaways, interceptions." 
That brings us to Taylor, who amaz­ingly could still be roaming the Notre Dame secondary for two-and-a-half more years. Taylor shares Burris' habit of being around the ball, as he tied for the team lead with nine passes broken up last season, and is leading with five this year. 
"Bobby is an exciting player," says Covington, "A lot of time Bobby is in the wrong position. But a receiver can get behind Bobby five steps, and Bobby, with his physical attributes, can make up for it." 
"Bobby Taylor is a rare individual," said Holtz. "He doesn't look like an ath­lete, he's tall and gangly, but his speed is deceptive. I have not seen many play­ers on the college level play man-on­man coverage as well as he does." 
Taylor has also been described as a "flashy," and "silky" player, but he feels he fits right in with the rest of the Irish secondary. 
Freshman Kinnon Tatum, sophomore Brian Magee, and junior Shawn Wooden are fitting in themselves, and are start­ing to look like the next great Notre Dame defensive backfield. The incum­bents feel they have some role in their development. 
"Really, all we've had to do is calm them down a little bit," says Lane. "They just need to play like they can, they all have athletic ability. It's just a matter of calming them down and telling them to have fun out there." 
For the Irish secondary, fun can be had in many ways. For Covington, fun would be seeing a receiver start a cross­ing pattern in his zone, for Taylor it may be knocking away a sure touchdown pass. 
"On the field we all have different styles, me myself being more laid-back," says Taylor, "But I think we all have confidence in each others' skills, we know what each other can do. That's what makes us the best." 
"We say before every game we're going to prove why we're the best sec­ondary in the country," says Burris. 
"We just want to be known," adds Lane, "as the best this school's ever had." 
Together, they may be just that. 

The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
''C>r1 'T'.h..e Ca.mp1...1s'' 
' 
store hours: Mon-Sat: 9a.m.-5p.m. 
phone: 631-6316 

One Table Jammed Full Of CDs.....One Week~ Oct.llfu-lbfu 

CampactDisc 

10000 MANIACS 
TheWishing Chair 

Inclodes Can't Ignore The Train ...._ Scoq>io Rising ,...~ My Mother The War lolydole 

YAZ 
Upstairs AI Eric's 

Evezy CD pictured anO many, more have sale prtces be~ at ~9.99 anO up! SAW: BIG! 
DEPECHE MODE PHIL COLLINS 
Music For The Masses 

Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
, .
FIVE YEARS AGO TODAY TONY RICE LED NOTRE DAME TO A31·30 WIN OVER MIAMI 

NOW HE DEALS WITH LIFE AFTER By 
George Dohrmann
FOOTBALL 

P
ause it. Look closely. He's smiling. Right "I wanted to be there, but it was something I there as he freezes the safety, he's smil­couldn't control," Rice said. 
ing. No way they're gonna lose when he's Fast forward one year to the Sacramento smiling. He knew it. No way. Attack of the Arena Football League, the last pro 
They always pause it, Notre Dame fans with uniform worn by Rice. their remote controls. Watching him play, seeing He was signed as a backup for Mark Pile for the the blocks form, the defenders fall. The sleek final two games of the season. Tony Rice backing 
quarterback. Number nine on his chest. Ball cra-up Mike Pile. He never took a snap, watching dled in his arms. · from the sidelines as his new team dropped it's 
They slow it down as he rounds the end, pitch­final two games. man to the left. The option. Only the safety left. "I never thought that I would be here," Rice He's frozen, can't decide. said in the locker room after watching his first ~ 
There's the smile. He's gone. Touchdown Tony game of Arena ball. "I used to watch the games ~ Rice. late on ESPN. and say 'those guys are crazy' but ~ 
The tape seems to end there, or maybe the fans they gave me a call and it was a chance." ~ stop watching. But the story continues. There are He would sit in the locker room after the ~ few highlights and a lesser known cast, but in the games, watching his teammates' children and ~ 
end, there's still a smile. wives offering hugs and congratulations. He had ~ Tony Rice's story since leaving Notre Dame is only letters from Felicia back home, telling what ~ neither long nor distinctive. It is not an epic tale new word Madelene said or how tall Alexandria, § or even television mini-series material. It is set in their first child, was getting. ~ 
places like Barcelona and Sacramento, in leagues "I miss them a lot," Rice said at the time. "But I ~ 


• 
et zt 

inquire as to why he isn't playing, but seldom do people ask how he's doing now. So often people remind Rice of what he was, and so few tell him who he is. 
"I think there is pressure from a lot of other people for him to play," said Felicia. "People always say do this or do that, they make him feel he needs to be playing." 
Fast Forward to May. The phone is ringing. The man on the line is from the Sacramento Gold Miners, America's new CFL franchise. He invited Tony for a tryout. It seemed like a perfect situa­tion. Five of Rice's former teammates from Barcelona were on the roster. He said no. 
"More teams have probably called in the past year, than they when Tony was right out of col­lege," says Felicia. "It's not that they're not inter­ested in him, its just that he's not following up on them." 
T
he future. Rice won't let you fast-forward that far. "I only want to deal with what's going on today. I can't say what I will be doing in the future, or if I will give football anoth­er chance. I'm thinking only about today. I'm thinking about doing things right here, because this is always going to be my life." 
"I think that both Tony and I want stability," adds Felicia. "For the first three years of our marriage we were only living together for four months. He would leave and the girls would know that he's not coming back that night. But now he comes home from work and the girls are so excit­ed, they jump all over him. They're crazy about him. It has changed them so much because they know he's coming home, and I think it has changed him too." 
Rewind one last time, to June. Tony Rice the ex-Notre Dame quarterback is speaking at a grammar school in Chicago. After his talk, the children surround him, wanting an autograph, just like his college days. But Rice handls it dif­ferently than he had in the past. 
"I told them that I wouldn't give them my auto­
graph until they gave me theirs." He brings out a 
handful of his business cards for the children to 
sign. They hang on a wall in his office, each 
marked with a child's scribbled signature. 
"They're my favorite thing in this office. Not the 
awards or the pictures, but those kids' signa­
tures." 

Pause it there. Rewind it a couple of times. 
Play it over again and again. The tightrope is fad­
ing. You just see Tony. 
And you smile. 

where players go to hang on. This story is absent from the video libraries of football fans, and Rice would like to keep it that way. He would rather you fast forward to the present and let it play. 
But in order to fully grasp the Tony Rice of today, one must rewind. You must view bits of the four years following Notre Dame, moments that tell who he is now and will become in the future. 
Rewind to April 23, 1990, day two of the NFL draft. Rice was not one of the 331 selections called in the draft's twelve rounds. He sat stunned in his South Bend apartment, as he was sure he would be selected somewhere in the first five rounds. "I cried," he said of not being select­ed. 
Fast forward a bit to the two seasons Rice spent with the Barcelona Dragons of the now defunct World League of American Football. 
Living in a strange country and not speaking the language were things that Rice could handle, and he could even deal with playing backup to Scott Erney for two seasons. But something wasn't right. 
"Barcelona just wasn't the situation for me," Rice later said, "for a lot of reasons. I used to call my wife Felicia every night. When I'm home she is always holding my hand or something to let me know she's there. When I was in Barcelona I missed that." 
But despite the loneliness, Rice doesn't regret his seasons in Spain. "It was a chance to keep playing." 
Pause it. 
Envision Rice on a tightrope, trying desperately 

to balance his football life with his real life. 
Pro athletes talk about balancing the time they spend with their families and the time they spend playing ball. But for Rice it is not about time, but timelessness. The fans forget and the reporters stop calling, but inside the rush will never leave. It is like a drug addict who has a flashback from a substance used years before. It engulfs him, owning him for a few minutes before reality returns. The danger comes because the now is what is important. And for Rice it is so important. 
"I have things which I have to take care of 

now," he says. "Real things." 
F
ast forward to October of 1991 and Atlanta, the site of the tryouts for the Professional Spring Football League. 

While Rice was giving the PSFL a try, his wife 
Felicia was in Wisconsin giving birth to Tony's 
second daughter Mandelene. 
think I can play in this league. I see the quarter­backs out there, and I know I can." 
Hit Pause again. 
You want to grab him, shake him, tell him to stop turning the idea over in his head. Football is not important, that tightrope shouldn't even exist. But you don't. Because you know old men living on your street, the ones that still go to the high school games, talking about when they played for such and such High. Rice played for Notre Dame, won the national title, was on the cover of Sports Illustrated four times. He's addicted, and like any addict he must take it one day at a time. 
F
ast forward a week. As the season ended, Rice returned home to Notre Dame and Felicia, and to an understanding. 
"We really didn't sit down and say, 'OK now it's time to move on. Felicia knows how much I love football and tells me to keep playing as long as I want. But I knew that it was time to for me to use what I learned at Notre Dame to help my family." 
Fast forward to the present and let it play awhile. 
Behind a desk in a small office sits Tony Rice, not the quarterback, but a purchasing manager for a manufacturing company in a suburb of Chicago. 
"It was difficult to get the hang of working here at first, but after a while I got used to it and I am able to bring in the right deals for our company. I really got hooked on the computers and I am having a lot of fun with it." 
He talks about one vendor who he tricked into lowering a price, and jokes with a co-worker about who's fault it was that an order didn't get placed. "I really like it here." 
Seeing and hearing Rice do business seems so strange as you watch him behind his desk and computer, but signs around his office remind you that this is still the Tony Rice of football fame. 
On one wall hangs a framed Sports Illustrated cover, reading, "Five for the Heisman." 
A gold plaque from the Notre Dame monogram 
club as the 1989 football MVP is the first object 
that catches your eye, and pictures of his days in 
Barcelona loom on the wall across his desk. 
But people are the most constant reminder that 
Rice is still a football player. "Yes, this is Tony 
Rice from Sate-Lite," he begins when making 
calls. "The same Tony Rice that played at Notre 
Dame?" the voice on the end of the line asks. 
They ask about the national championship and 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October IS, 1993 
.' 
Tough road tests for Alab811la, Michigan 
Games of Interest
sweet as 

solid quarterback Jay Barker and
Sugar 

Michigan at Penn State running back Sherman Williams. The Wolverines head into Happy Their defense, as always, is menac­
I
s it too early to 

Valley reeling from their mindbog­ing.
start making 

gling 17-7 loss to Michigan State. Defensive back Antonio Langhampredictions of a The Spartans held Tyrone has another four interceptions this Notre Dame victory Wheatley to just 33 yards on 11 year, and has broken the 'Barna 
the Sugar Bowl? 

carries, as the Michigan offense record with 17 for his career. 
Certainly. 

sputtered all day. Langham and Co. will be tested Is it too early to It was the Wolverines' first Big by the Volunteer offense, which fea­
start making com­

Ten loss since 1990, and it may tures QB Heath Shuler and receiver parisons to the 1988 have knocked them out of the race Craig Faulkner. 
national champi­

for the conference championship Faulkner caught two touchdowns 
onship team? 

and a trip to the Rose Bowl. And last week in the Vols' 28-14 win 
Definitely. 1--------.JI 

don't forget that the Irish tore up over Arkansas, as Shuler tied a Will that stop your average, blue-the Spartans 36-14 three weeks school record with his 18th touch­ld blooded Irish fan from making ago. down pass of the season. 
conjectures? Absolutely not. 

About the only thing that could However, Shuler is just as dan­Indeed, this year's team has "rrnu·...,"' save the Wolverines would be a win gerous on the ground, as he had e an unexpected following since i at Beaver Stadium, which is not an two more rushing touchdowns last <>111LJ'-~·<>u Michigan with its 27-24 upset. 
easy task. week. 
The Irish have proven themselves to The seventh-ranked Nittany Lions The Volunteers are ranked tenth valid contender for the national are nearly unbeatable at home, as and if 'Barna gets by them they will award which skeptics and loyal they showed in Notre Dame's last have just one more stumbling black had deemed unattainable prior trip there. The Irish lost 35-13. on their way to the Sugar Bowl: a Wolverine showdown. 

Penn State had a bye last week, probable rematch with Florida in 
he much maligned Notre Dam 

which brings us to the age old ques­the SEC Championship Game. 
lnrrar•co has surprisingly displayed signili 

tion: Does a bye week help or hurt a
depth in the backfield as well as a team? Colorado at Oklahomaid offensive line and an outstandi Normally I would say that a bye The ninth-ranked Sooners havecorps. The defense has demon­week helps a team. However, BYU their best team since the days oftrated, under the leadership of defen­had two weeks to prepare for their Jamielle Holleway and Keithive coordinator Rick Minter, that it trip to UCLA, and they lost 68-14. Jackson, and the whole state ofady to become the team's leading force Anyway. Penn State is 5-0 (2-0 in Oklahoma may show up for this · ihe himlering Achilles heel of the the Big Ten), including a 21-20 win showdown in Norman. 

few years. 

over USC as the Trojans missed a Last week the Sooners ran wildIn fact, this year's defensive corps two-point conversion at the end of over Texas at their annual matchuphould be considered the best since the the game. in the Cotton Bowl, winning in a 38­1988 championship squad, and in So the Nittany Lions have not 17 rout. Quarterback Cale Gundyn~r·o~·•c can be considered superior. 
faced a ranked team all year, but scored three rushing touchdowns,1988 squad allowed an average Michigan is now barely ranked, as and the Sooners beat Texas for the80.3 yards and 12.3 points per they have dropped from No. 3 to first time in five years.
nder defensive coordinator arry 

No. 18-behind perrenial confer­Oklahoma has not been tested all varez. Alvarez left Notre Dame to ence doormat Wisconsin. year. and they come up against aWisconsin. 
Colorado team that is talented and 
en Gary Darnell took over for 

Alabama at Tennessee angry.
arez to open the 1990 season, the This is the first real challenge for The Buffaloes are ranked twenti­

mise of the stalwart Irish defense 


the second-ranked Crimson Tide, as eth, courtesy of their two heart­
h was characteristic of the Holtz 

they travel up to Knoxville and the breaking losses, a controversial 34­began. In 1990 and '91 the team checkerboard end zones. 31 loss at Stanford and a 31-28 an average of 390.3 and 382.3 
Alabama also had a bye week this near-upset at home against Miami. 
per game, respectively, including a week, so it will be interesting to see Colorado is much better thanhameful 204.8 yards rushing in 1991. 

how it affects them. The Crimson their record suggests, and they canWhen Minter took over last season, he Tide offense is excellent, led by prove it this weekend. 
to resurrect the lost tradition 
Notre Dame defenses. After allow-an average of 366.6 yards per game his first six games as coordina­inter finally pulled his defense ••u:~"''""'. It allowed only 242.4 yards and 
11.2 points through the final live games. This season's defense matches up very 
with that of the 1988 squad. It ven up only 285.5 yards and 11.5 




10/10 
POINTS 1013 
1. Florida 1549 1 2. Alaba 1480 2 3. Notre 1413 4 4. Florida 1365 5 5. Ohio 1245 6 6. Nebraska 1169 7 7. Penn State 1163 8 8. Miami 1156 3 9. Oklahoma 1073 10 10. Tennessee -0 1021 11 11. Arizona !o-0 957 12 
~~: ~~~~iA& ~~-~ ~~~ ~~ 
14. NorthCarolina 6-1-0 697 15 15. Virginia 613 18 16. Wiscons· 556 21 17. West Virgi 470 24 18. Mich· 451 9 19. 426 22 20. 408 20 21. California 5-1-0 346 16 22. UCLA 3-2-0 287 25 23. Louisville 5-1-0 212 17 
~: ~~~~~~ ~~~ 23 
Others receiving votes: Kansas State 35, Indiana 30, Clemson 29, BQ§tQO College 22, Brigham 
Young 19, Arc1>~ , c; 

The Ob'lerver/Brendan Regan 


per game. The quality of 1993 

last week, the Observer Sports 
line, which is perhaps the best Amanda Clinton 
Jonathan Jensen George Dohrmann
the Holtz-era, is made statistically staff shifts its sights on the sports Sports Editor 
Overall: 42-24 Overall: 42-24 
bvious by the fact that it has allowed an 

Last Week: 7-4 Last Week: 8-3 staff from another campus publi­
verage of only 83.2 yards per game. 1988 squad gave up 112 to the rush. cation. Common Sense and The Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Notre Dame 
The linebacker corps has been the only Penn State Penn State 
Penn State Michigan Juggler say we should win. 
uestionable feature in this year's Alabama Alabama
Alabama Alabama efense. Questions lingered about its Colorado Oklahoma Colorado Oklahoma beyond seniors Pete Bereich and Florida Florida Florida Florida ny Peterson. When both Bereich Illinois Iowa Illinois Illinois Peterson went down with injuries, UCLA UCLA UCLA UCLA
Observer 
Northwestern Northwestern

squad was given the opportunity to Northwestern Northwestern Mississippi State Mississippi State 
rove its talent and it succeeded. Players South Carolina Mississippi State 
Sports Staff 
North Carolina North Carolina 

as juniors Justin Goheen, J North Carolina North Carolina 
Oregon Oregon

and Jeremy Sample and freshmen Arizona State Arizona State Last week: 29-15 rt Berry and Kinnon Tatum rose to the (UL<LU:>IVII and filled the voids. 
vs 
The ability to adapt is another advan­that this season's squad possesses. is one of the most versatile defenses in 
years. 

Scholastic 
can the defense lead the Irish to a 111a.uuua• championship? "I think we can," Bereich said. "We Sports Staff 
)the talent and everything. It's just a 
Last week's guests: 26-18 
Jason Kelly Bryan Connolly Jeremy Dixon Brian Hiro 
r of doing the little things right." 

Overall: 41-25 Overall: 14-8 ' Sports Writer Sports Writer 
r now, however, Irish fans must 

Last Week: 7-4 Last Week: 7-4
themselves to premature prognos­ns and wishful thinking. 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 
For certain, though, the only word they 

Penn State Michigan Penn State Penn State 
use to describe their feelings for this 

Alabama Alabama Alabama Alabama
is "sweet". 

Oklahoma Oklahoma Colorado Oklahoma 
as inS 

Florida Florida Auburn Florida Illinois Illinois Illinois Iowa Washington Washington Washington Washington Northwestern Northwestern Northwestern Northwestern South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina South Carolina North Carolina North Carolina North Carolina North Carolina Arizona State Arizona State Arizona State Arizona State 


Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 13 
'Dancing at Lughnasa' celebrates Irish culture with music and dance 
By TAYNA KRYWARUCZENKO the actors and actresses are playing the challenge of casting because charac­dents are actually putting it on (by Assistant Accent Editor older characters in their middle-ages," ters were needed who knew how to themselves)," said Auerbach. "An enor­said Bain. dance or who could be taught how to mous amount of responsibility is placed This weekend there will be other dance. on the cast members. They've had to dances on campus besides SYRs. The play centers around Michael rehearse six times a week since the first 
The Notre Dame Communication and Evans (played by Pete Dillard), who is a "The women in the play are alienated week of school." Theatre Department will present Brian fictional poet and playwright. Michael by society," said Kathryn Telesca, who Friel's Tony Award winning "Dancing at reminisces about the summer of 1936 plays Rose in the production. "Dancing Auerbach added that a lot of students Lughnasa" Oct. 13-17 at Washington when he was seven years old and living is a release for them." help behind the scenes with production. Hall. with his unmarried mother and four There is almost a 3:1 ratio of back stage 
aunts. He remembers how his aunts Telesca explained that there are two help to a cast member, according to 
"There were a number of reasons we and his mother had many dreams of types of dancing in the play. One is a Tom Barkes, Facility Manager at decided to put on this production," said overcoming their hard lives to live better type of Irish Pagan dancing, which goes Washington Hall. Bruce Auerbach, director of the theatre ones. against their strict Catholicism, and the department and lighting designer for other is ballroom dancing, which Telesca has enjoyed her experiences this production. "We knew it was an Michael looks back with fond memo­includes the Jitterbug. "The Irish dances working with the production, which had award winning play and it has a lot of ries specifically at the Festival of are hectic and crazy at times," said its first performance Wednesday night. Irish content in it, which of course, has a Lughnasa in Ireland. The festival, which Telesca. The ballroom dances were "I think opening night went really well," 
-
lot of interest on campus." was a large party combined with danc­choreographed by Loretta Spencer, a said Telesca. "It was great working ing, was a pagan ritual which offered local ballroom dance instructor, and the with a live audience and it really 
"I was interested in direclting the play many an escape from the harsh society. Irish dances were choreographed by increased our energy level." because it has been a while since we've In the play, dancing is a type of Julie Showalter, a senior at Saint done an Irish play and I thought it was metaphor for freedom and what the Mary's. "Dancing at Lughnasa" will be per­about time that we did one," said direc­good life is like. formed at 8:10 p.m. on Fri. and Sat., tor Reginald Bain. This is the third Friel Approximately 40 students are and 2:30 p.m. on Sun. Tickets are avail­play that Bain has directed. According to Bain, the dancing in the involved with the production, eight of able at the door or in advance at the 
play is a way to leave reality and to for­which appear on stage. Tryouts were LaFortune Box Office, and they are 
"It's also a challenging play to perform get about problems. held the first week of school and re­seven dollars for reserved seats. Senior because of the accents, and it is a strong "Dancing is an important part of the hearsals began immediately after try­citizen and student discounts are avail­character piece," said Bain. The play is play and adds to the difficulty for the outs. Work on planning the play started able for the Sunday performance, for not a musical, although it does have characters," said Auerbach. in July, according to Auerbach. five dollars. For Visa and Master Card dancing in it, according to B.ain. orders, call (219) 239-8128. 
All of the women in the play have to "We hope that when people come to "The play is also a challenge because dance, explained Bain. This added to see the production, they realize that stu­

nto glory at the Snite Museum 
By BEVIN KOVALIK a dance class geared toward younger family members, Accent Writer older members of the commu­according to Matthias. 
Schedule ofEvents
nity, which performs all kinds Another part of the program 
No matter what age you are, of dances including the is a discussion panel which will you will always remain young Charleston, polka and jazz. center on current issues rele­
10:00-11:00 Artists discuss their work 
at heart. "We always like to hear vant to older women. One pan­The Snite Museum of Art will laughter and bring happiness to elist member, psychotherapist focus on this notion with regard all people, regardless of age," Goldie Ivory, will discuss the to the older women in the shared Wroblewski. relationship of older women, 
11:30-12:~5 Panel discussion: Issues Michiana area, this Saturday at "Whether you are 20 or 75, for example grandmothers, IofConcern in 1993 ~ 
the fourth annual event in a you have no difference in your with younger family members, "Day of Women" series. hearts," Wroblewski said. "No according to Matthias. 
"This day will highlight the matter what age you are, the Bringing perspectives from older woman and will celebrate young at heart will always abroad, Sister Olivette, a Holy the kinds of things these enjoy what you are doing. We Cross sister, will discuss how women like to do," expressed just always want to see smiles older women are treated in the Diana Matthias, Snite Museum on the faces of our audience United States as compared to coordinator of academic pro­and the older performers." their revernce in certain for­grams. Portraying older women eign countries like Brazil and 
The performance oriented through drama, Jane Syburg Bangledish. program will expose the audi­will cover readings and perfor­Other panel topics include ence to some of the activities mances of three plays, includ­older women serving as both which older women in the com­ing her own entitled, "The students and teachers, and the munity enjoy in the areas of art, Legacy." Syburg is currently the importance of older women vol­drama, writing, music, dance, drama director at St. Joe's High unteering in the community. and social issues. Some women School. Participants in the Day of from the Michiana community The theme of "The Legacy" Women include community will come to share their talents traces how two middle-aged artists, poetry and fiction writ­and discuss how they incorpo­sisters deal with the death of ers, along with a few drama­rate fun activities into their their mother in discovering they tists, musicians, and singers. lives. are both discontent with the This event is a part of an 
Older women continue to image their mother had of ongoing series, and the Snite 
enjoy life just like younger them, Syburg explained. Museum will continue to spon­women do, and they can still do The play portrays the conflict sor similar events in the future. a variety of projects and activi­that arises as the two women "Each time we hope to draw ties. It does not matter what discover their mother did not different crowds, and have age a person is, he or she can see them as completely as they some people who enjoy coming do anything at all, expressed see themselves. anyway," Matthias said. participant Loretta Wroblewski, Another part of the program This event will take place coordinator of Forever is a discussion panel which will October 16 from 11:30 a.m. to 7 Learning Flappers. center on current issues rele­p.m., in the Annenberg 
"We always want like to hear vant to older women. One pan­Auditorium, and a reception 
laughter and bring happiness to elist member, psychotherapist will follow for all participants. all people, regardless of age Goldie Ivory, will discuss the Everyone is welcome to attend they are," shared Wroblewski. relationship of older women, and there is no charge. 
Forever Learning Flappers is like grandmothers, with 
12:45-1:45 Lunch 1:45-2:45 Poetry and Fiction 
-
3:00-4:15 Drama 4:30-6:00 Music and dance 6:00-7:00 Reception 
The Present Not knowing what comes next or when, I'm concentrating on the top of a small fur-covered skull protruding slightly from the river, causing the water to hump and change its flow against the upstream swimmer. Hydrodynamics. Then the swimmer dives and that event 
I is over. Eighteen geese 
1 

glide from the shore, never looking back. Heavy snow begins to fall. It's one thing after another, sometimes several all at once. 
-Joan Mcintosh, poet 
----~ ~----~~----~ 
page 14 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, October 15, 1993 
Incidentally, being a Catholic is not a bed of roses 
How does one make the ac­
dom literature, God reveals weep over the lives lost in that quaintance of a practicing Jew Himself to the Jews, just as fire-bombing on Yom Kippur. If of the strict of the strict obser­Jesus shows Christians the face he were merely present to the
Father Robert Griffin 
vance? How do you get the of the Father. survivors of a holocaust as a Hasid who happens to be cross­When I feel sorry for the Jews bystander, perhaps they ing the street with you in f3ellers Ia a Bonefj 9ocf because they don't know Jesus, wouldn't love Him so much. But Manhattan to acknowledge the I remember that they have the their pain is his pain which he fact that you physically exist? Torah showing them the way shares as our brother in 
Say hello to a Hasid whom you like Jesus did, as the Word tragedy. overtake on the sidewalk, and made flesh; and I know they Obviously, the faith of Jews
grew up in the ghetto, attend­Family, I would expect to be 
he stares right past you. Speak don't need me feeling sorry for who survived the Holocaust was
ing some school of hard knocks; graciously greeted. 
again when he waits beside you them. tested by fire. A few bold
or maybe he starred as a schol­As a street Catholic meeting
for the light to change, he What insights into Majesty Talmudists allege that God, al­
ar at a local yeshiva. street Jews in lower 
scowls, looks fierce, and turns have the holy sages, swaying lowing the victims to go the
The light changes finally, and Manhattan, I could be Ishmael 
his head away. like the flame of a candle that wall as lie had allowed Job in
the cars move, leaving the the outlaw, looking for a chance 
Speak a third time; and if dances with the wind, derived his day to go to the wall, felt so
crosswalk open. Avram rushes to disturb the peace. Avram 
you're lucky, he gives you a from their study of the divine powerless as he listened to the
off as though he were jet-pro­may be boorish, but I have no 
barely perceptible shrug of the texts of the Torah, with which cries for help from the inno­
pelled, to get you off his back. business ghosting him like a 
shoulders. He wears a black the Talmud begins? They have cent. He started to doubt llis
Halfway up the block, you over­Golem offering him "sholom 
suit, probably tailored in Minsk; noted with delight God's play­own existence, and was so
take him again, talking to aleichem," when he wants to be 
and you wear a black suit from fulness as a poet clever with tempted to become an agnostic.
another Hasid. you hesitate to as far away from me as the 
off the racks of Brooks language in the way The rabbinical tradition has
speak, thereby obliging him to Gaza Strip. 
Brothers. Shakespeare was, and His produced many tall tales, and
-
explain the presence of this It is easier to talk to students 
He is so much blacker, you imaginativeness as the artist this story of God's self-doubt
goyish priest in his life to a fel­as though I had the religion of a 
could, in comparison, be wear­who created heaven and earth. could be one of them that only
low Jew. rabbi than it is to talk to them 
ing a techno-colored dream God's way are not our ways, the children believe. Children,
Avram gives the barely per­as a popish priest. Because the 
suit. lie makes no bones about not the scholars; still He in their tender-heartedness,
ceptable shrug of his shoulders Church is fragmented, priests
his unwillingness to be in the charms us with His flights of believe anything that shows the
anyway. This time, you hurry take turns trying to mesmerize 
same part of town with you. Is whimsey, which emerge from love in God.
ofT because you have promises students like the Pied Piper.
he afraid you'll start telling him His handiwork to surprise us Hasidim like Avrim seem to
to keep. For all you know, Posing as a judaizer, I just want 
about "Jews for Jesus"? into seeing He is on a wave­hard-nosed to sentimentalize
Avram may be headed to attend to make them aware of the an­
Jesus must have been almost length with us. the God of Moses. The Talmudic 
a race riot on Flatbush Avenue. cient, on-going conversation 
as bad mannered, during his The Talmud attest also to tales picture Him with dignity,
Why I m I telling you all this? between Jewry and the Lord 
shtick as a village rabbi, insult­God's patience and His humility though lie shows great tender­
To let you see that Judaism is God of Israel. 
ing the Syro-Phoenician when the Chosen People are ness, and is not stiff-necked,
not a proseltyzing religion. Heard by an outsider, the con­
woman, comparing her daugh­angry with him for the bad like the Jehovah of Calvin. Of
Avram's is the face of Judaism versation can sound like the 
ter to a dog not deserving to be things He providentially allows. course Judaism, as a religion, is
pushed about as close as it is "murmur of innumerable bees," 
fed from the table. "Did bombs go ofT in a crowded not monolithic. 
going to get to my face as a kneading up honey, "like 
Who is this Jew, whom you are synagogue on Yom Kippur? Young Catholics can learn
spiritual Semite; and all I can singing masons building roofs 
making so unhappy? You could After the millions of deaths in more about faith from Jews
see is his straight-arming me as of gold." Much of the con­
call him Avram, though not to the Holocaust which He permit­than they can learn from one
though I were made of pork. versation is boring, but a lit ofit 
his face, since it's not his name. ted to happen, couldn't the another.
In New York or Tel Aviv, I'm has sweetness and depth which 
Maybe he's a migrant from Master of the Universe have Incidentally, Chesterton con­
not a member of the tribe; and I could leave you drunk in the 
Odessa, descended from the spared the sheep, whom He jectures that when Christ called 
don't mind, though I might way that fermentation from 
tribes who made the ac­claimed were the apples of His out from the cross, "My God,
have hoped to be welcomed as clover can do. 
quaintance in the desert of the eyes, from the latest outrage My God, why hast thou fore­
a stranger in Egypt, in the way This conversation, which Jews 
One now called the Master of perpetuated by terrorists?" saken me?" He was close at
that the Old Testament tradi­call the Talmud, includes 
the Universe. The great mystery of the what moment to being an ag­
tion of hospitality mandates. sacred scripture, the commen­
As a son of the Covenant, he's world's suffering which he nostic. As someone has said,
At Columbia on Morningside taries on scripture, and the 
indistinguishable from hun­freely allows is that he suffers "Even being God ain't no bed of 
Heights, meeting the Jewish in­commentaries on the commen­
dreds of other Hasidim who to, and was probably the first to roses."
tellectuals who belong to the taries. In the Talmud as wis-





EVERYONE IS INVITED 
COSTUME lo 
SMC's

-
ALL CAMPUS
CONTEST! 

MASQUERADE BALL! 

HAGGAR 8-12 Sal. Oct. 16 


•Raffle lickela will be aoiJ al Joor 1for $1/3 for $5 
---------~---------------------·------------~--~-~--­
Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar CoUege Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifiecls 
2PW1tes are look1ng lor a nde to  stereo tor sale.  INEED 4FSO &BC Gks  Best offer by bel. 22 lor 2FSO  sophomores!II  
NOTICES  the DC area for fall break. We have gas $, toll $ and charming personal­ If interested call 4-237 4  call Beth @ X2615  GA's call Angie 284-5410  
ities x2147  One way plane ticket from S.Bend  Seeking 1 NO vs. USC G.A.  Consider a life of patient love from  
Typing  to DC.  Leaves Oct. 22. $90.  If you know of one please call  Mom, financial security from Dad,  
287-4082  Do You live near Georgetown or  Call273-1074.  Jocelyn x3842, thanks.  NEED USC GA's for my parents.  laughter and music in a country  
D.C.???? I need a ride for fall  Call Jim @ 289-6648  home for your baby.  Please call  
Professional Typing  break-there and back. very friend­ Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172  
Dissertations, Term Papers  ly; like to drive; help with gas,  STAMP COLLECTION-call KJ  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2-5  Will trade USC GA's & cash for  any1ime.  
Reasonable Rates  tolls,etc.  call Brian x3043  @ 232-7838  USC GA or student tix.Colleen634­ FSU tix. Call Jim 312-743-8932  
277-7406  2291.  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  Needed: up to 3 USC GA's. 284-4397  TICKETS  WILL TRADE 3 USC GA'S + PRE­ Alum needs to Trade BC GA's for  ADOPTION IS LOVE Loving Indiana medical profession­ 
CALL 259-8684.  PAID HOTEL ROOM 2 NIGHT  USC GA's. Brian x1979  als eager to adopt newborn.  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  FOR 2 FLA ST GA'S  MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential.  
############################  '941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­ TIXS.272-6306  CALL (618)2774481 DAYS  I need two USC GA's Please call  Call our home toll free to hear all  
DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE  (618)6327571 NIGHTS  x1882  about us. Jaci and John 1-800-224­ 
NEED A D.J.???  PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­ 2429.  
Call Adworks for professional DJ'sl  SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  '86 Alum who endured futility with  
Our rates are among the lowest on  TOURS 1-800-426-7710  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  Faust is hoping to reach the heights  WANTED:$$$  
campus!  ADWORKS-1-6757.  JANE AT 1-800-264-3278.  with Holtz. Wants USC, FSU, and  GA AND STUD TIX  Homodomers, Unite\  
Hey Ladies,  BC TIX. Please call Connie at 1­ FOR ALL GAMES  
############################  Do you like:  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ 7336 or Connie/Dan at 219-874­ 282-2133 TONY  glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556  
Alice in Chains, Nirvana, Van  ETS\ 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call:  4240.  
Need Business Cards?  Halen, Dino Jr., Ozzy???? If so,  A. Raczkowski  
-call Adworks 1-6756  you'r the ones for us.  Call if 'u'  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  
LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY!!  dare.  Brian and Ted x3049  with jobs -will pay big $$$!  -1need GAs for the USC  SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your  
game-Please call Katie at  high school over break as SMC  -­ 
Anybody interested in doing flood  FSU TIX NEEDED!!!!!!!!  284-5447­ rep? Sign up-Admission Office.  
damage relief in Davenport, Iowa  Do you think all the "D.C. bound for  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  NEED 2 USC GAs  Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21  
(Quad Cities area) over Fall Break  fall break" people in the classifieds  PLEASE!!  Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs  5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge.  
call Frank at 277-9353.  could rent a car together and drive  Please call Tara at 4975  for family.  Please call Rich X-4499  
there? We need someone 21 to  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  
FRESHMEN I Fr. Magazine needs  rent the car and go with us.  Call  Chosen a major yet?  
writing, editing, graphics, photogra­ Brian x3043  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Wanted:  USC tix, -std or GA  
phy, dsktop publishing, business  Adm. only.  Call Kathy@ x4161  If you are a sophomore, you should  
managers. 1st mtg Sun., 10/17 4pm, Fresh. Lrning Resource  FORREN'Cj  Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162, (W) 201-992-8700  Need 2 USC GA's call Brian x3467 or x0577  I NEED TIX FOR :  consider it. Being declared gives you a DART time advantage. If you  
Ctr.  -USC  know what you want to declare, do  
ILOST & FOUND I  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153  Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at 273-1757  CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the two lovely people who spawned me. Any home game. Will pay res­ -FLAST. -BC CALL JOHN at 271-1706  it. If not, watch for further info on major counseling sessions spon­sored by Sophomore Class Council.  
onable price. Heck, I'd even draw  
LOST:  J-Crew Barn jacket( Brown)  ROOMS AVAIL IN PRIVATE  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITI., USC &  somethin' for ya.  Call Jay at 271­ 
It was lost in late Sept.  Please con·  HOME FOR FOOTBALL WKNDS.  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  1400 between 6-10 pm any night.  3 ST. Tix Book 4 Sale  CHUGGA CHUGGA CHOO-CHOO  
tact Mike at 634-1166 with any  OVER AGE 30 PREF. NICELY  273-4002  AUOOGA AUOOGA  
information.  DECOR. 277-8340  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ WANTED:  CLANG CLANG CLANG  
LEGE.  CALL COLLECT (908)221­ 2 USC GA's  $$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$  WENT THE TROLLEY  
WANTED  ]  Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­Private.  6183.  CALL JAMIE @ 273 -5910  ---Call Phil x3543  HAPPY BIRTHDAY SEAN LOVE YA CHRISTINE  
257-9101  We will purchase at handsome  Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ price four seats together for the  up to 4 GA S.C. tix OR will buy S.C.  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  ROOMS FOR RENT, FURN,NEAR  Florida State game. Pis. call (800)  Stud booklet 4 Sale  tix.  631-6305 or 291-4240  Adoption: Doctor and professor will  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the  CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW.272-6306  457-0486.  Ech 272-1451  make dreams for your baby come  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  call btw. 4-10 p.m.  Will trade 19" color tv for two GA's  true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  
Career employment available. No  Seeking rommate to share house.  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  ANY game.  city; summer by the beach: Your  
experience necessary. For more  $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev.  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  277-6894.  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­ 
information call 1-206-634-0468  Football Tickets Notre Dame vs.  place in winter, and by ocean  
ext.C5584  Fern.  r-mate needed IMMEDIATE­ 3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­ BYU $125-$250 call Steve 801­ My cousin Frankie is coming out.  waves in summer.  Art, music, the  
LY  Gina 4-2372  9309  378-4373 or David 801-374-8939  He needs one FSU student ticket.  best education, endless love. Call  
$700/wk cannery workers;  Call Joe Russo at 234-6306.  Franny or Stephen collect  
$4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fisllo·  HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­ Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers.  TICKETS NO VS BYU 4-SALE 801­ (212)369-2597  
ing industry now hiring for next  FAST ALLIANCE -LOCAL &  Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta  375-5640  FOR SALE  
summer. 11 ,000 openings. No exp.  NOTRE DAME GUESTS.  (404)396-8715.  1 USC stud;  2 FSU stud  
necessary. Free rm. & bd. These  FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE  NO ALUM needs several USC GAs.  233-9279 Richard  
jobs go fast! Employment Alaska. 1­ STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989.  HELP!!!  Need 10 tickets, yes 10  Please call (313)953-5572 after  
206-323-2672  24-HR. ANSWERING MACHINE.  tickets, so my Florida family can  7pm.  -**!*!*!*!*!*"'!'*!**!*!*!**!*!*!*!*!•!*!*!*!*!*!  
see NO beat FSU.  I need 2 tix for USC so PLL­ 
We need a Kegirator. Interested in  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  Please call Kevin at 4-2265  8 BYU TIX 50yd Row 14 $500 Each  LLEEEAAAASSSSEEEE call Mike  
selling us one. Please give us a  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ OBO 8013739958  at 271-17061!!!!1!  ALMOST AS SCARY AS THE  
call. 234-2793  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $210.  %#%#%#%#%#%%#%#%#%#%#  
--ROOMATE WANTED­ EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  Need 2 USC GA's  2 FSU TICKETS NEEDED!\ Will  THOUGHT OF CO-ED HOUSING.  
-FOR SPRING SEMESTER '94  BUS 232-8444.  Will pay $100 ea  take student or GA call Annemarie  Tickets to the USC • BC and  
@TURTLE CREEK, 5 MIN. FROM  x1868  at 312-404-5131 or 312-573-2143  Florida St. games for sale.  COME TO THIS YEAR'S  
CAMPUS---CALL ED@273-9581  FOR SALE  FLA ST STU. TIX FOR SALE!  I NEED 1 USC GA NICK x1777  Leave name number and offer. 4-3440.  
WANTED: LOCAL REAL TOR  SERIOUS$$$$ ONLY  
SEEKING HOSTESSES TO  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  CALL CHARLES AT x1055  Desperate alum in DC need Fla  Student tix book for sale. 4-3440  
HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES.  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  State football tickets! Will pay big  CARROLL HALL  
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2-4  Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6  DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC  bucks. Call Tom collect after 8PM  Tickets for sale:  Call Marty 1521  
HOURS PER DAY, VARIOUS  days includes12 meals $279!  GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  703-768-8569  
DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE  Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  HAUNTED HOUSE  
AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  Cancun from Chicago $439,  For Salelllllll  FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN  
REALTY 282-2351.9-5 MON-FRI  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  NEED USC GA'S FOR MY PAR­ USC Student ticket for sale  AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN  
West $239, Day1ona Room w/  ENTS. CALL JIM @ 289-6648.  Will Deal  ALL CALLS  FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15  
I need a ride to the Wash D.C. area  Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386  Call Brian x3043  
for fall break.  Will help with gas,  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  Desperately need 2 GA tickets for  7:00  - 10:30  
tolls, etc. Call Christine x4867  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  USC Game. Help make a little boy's  
SELLING RAFFLE T\X FOR A  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  I need 1 USC student ticket.  dream come true. Call collect after  ONLY$2  
I need a ride to & from DC for  CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO NO  Call Dave X3662  5pm (404)275-7868  
break. Call1293.  · VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  
NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  Call Frank or John  TRADE  
THE SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  1-800-7 49-5975  1 USC STUD FOR 1 BC STUD Eric  
SCHOOL CORPORATION IS IN  284-5062  Will trade DISNEY tickets  x1033  Matt­ - 
NEED OF GOOD SUBSTITUTE  Need FSU Tickets ... along with  Those red roses are beautiful\  
TEACHERS AT ALL LEVELS.  SELLING FSU & BC TICKETS  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2  everyone else on campus.  Willing  $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA  Can I have one?  
APPLICANTS MUST HAVE COM­ Lisa 232-4112  FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616.  to pay$. 4-1918  STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  Anonymous  
PLETED 60 CREDIT HOURS.  
INDIVIDUALS INTERESTED  One way Air to Atlanta. Leaves  PLEASE\II  I NEED FSU STU TIX.  4 SALE-2 FSU GA'S. BO by  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DESI  HELP! I need a ride to  
SHOULD APPLY BETWEEN 8:30  S. Bend on Oct 25. $98. Could  THERESA  X2756  10/21. Call Rob @x1601.  Minneapolis/St. Paul for  
AM & 4:30PM MON.-FRI. AT THE:  negotiate car ride back to NO on  I NEED 1 USC TICKET-GA  Oct. break. Please help.  
EDUCATION CENTER  31st. Leave message 287-6850.  Need 2 USC GA  NEED 3 STUD. TIX FOR USC.  PLEASE CALL PATI\273-3173  Mike-4332  
HUMAN RESOURCE DEPT.  Max x1088  JAY X1534  
1ST FLOOR  I have Billy Joel Tix for Friday's  
635 SO. MAIN ST.  FOR SALE:  organic comfed beef  Need 4 USC GA's  4SALE 2 USC GAS 50 YO LN $100  show and I need to trade them for  
SOUTH BEND  whole or half, raised in Noble  Call Jeff x2000  EACH X4052  tix to Tuesday's.  So let's trade.  
FOR MORE INFO., CALL  County, Indiana and fed only pure  Call Chris at x4-1069.  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  
(219) 282-4160.  corn, pasture grass, mineral salt  4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC  NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  
with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins,  2 F~.\4 GAs x1850  $$$!!!!CALL TOM 254-9013  NEED CASH FOR FALL BREAK??  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  and limestone-filtered well water.  
EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE  Custom aged and cut at Yoders in  I NEED FLORIDA ST. TIX  STOP BY THE  
WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN,  Shipshewana, and delivered to  STUDSorGA- NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  I NEED 2 USC GAs  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  
EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  your door. $1.80 pound hanging  call Tim x1230  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  weight, with $25 deposit.  291­ CALL JOE@ X1613  PLEASE CALL TARA  $10-$250 Loans  
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  1797 .... ."your steak in the country"  Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks  AT#4975  30 days  
SEASONS. GUARANTEED  Matt  232-3870  1% interest  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­ See DEPECHE MODE in Concert  2 FSU GA'S 4 SALE X4863  
4398 ext 31  ROSEMONT HORIZON (Chicago)  WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL  11:30-12:30 Mon.-Fri.  
Fri. Oct. 29  412-352-3216  I need 2 USC GAs!  Next to Info. Desk, Lafortune  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students  8pm 3 Tix, Floor Seating  NEED 6 GAs to NO vs. USC  Please call Becca at 4876  PERSONAL  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  Call Ry @4X1163  PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP!  
and LOTS OF CASH with  FOR SALE: 5 FSU student tickets.  Let us take the worry out of your  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ cccccccccccccccccccc 000000 ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  All together.  Call Nei\634-4417.  decision. Call to learn about us, the  
ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  1 Plane tckt.  \, like everyone else in the world,  love we have to share, and the life  Col ester- 
Jamaica, Panama, Day1ona or  SB to Greenville/  need 4 USC tickets.  I'm more des­ we would like to provide for your  Glad you finally get to go to the  
Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A  Spartanberg, SC  perate than all of them, though.  baby. Strictly legal. Confidential.  Navy Ball!! Elephant shoes and see  
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  10/22 & back  Wanted -BYU vs NO tickets. Call  Call Sylvia and Ben. 1 (800) 579­ you tonight\  
(800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  10/31 X2485  Please call me-Diane x4253.  801-782-1543  7207  -Thumper  

---~ ---------~­
page 16 
Sooners hope to forget last ear when they face Colorado 
By OWEN CANFIELD 
AP Spom Writer 
NOHMAN, Okla. Oklahoma coach Gary Gibbs says he hasn't looked at film of 
last  year's  game  with  
Colorado,  and who  could  
blame him?  

The Sooners. following a fourth straight loss to Texas, went on the road to play Colorado, then 5-0 and ranked No.9. 
Oklahoma played its most inspired game of the year, forcing seven turnovers and returning two of those for touchdowns. The Sooners led 24-14 with five minutes left, but Colorado used an Oklahoma fumble to score a touchdown with 3:14 remain· ing. Then Mitch Berger kicked a 53-yard field goal on the game's final play, giving the Buffaloes a 24-24 tie. 
The field goal was particu­larly ugly, a line drive that wobbled all the way until it cleared the crossbar. 
"It hurt the team real bad," said cornerback Darrius Johnson, whose 17 -yard inter­ception return for a touch· down gave Oklahoma its 10­point lead. "A lot of guys are still bitter from that loss. I call it a loss. We don't want the same thing to happen again." 
No. 9 Oklahoma (5-0 overall, 1-0 Big Eight) gets another shot at 20th-ranked Colorado on Saturday. The Buffaloes are 3-2 and 1-0, and haven't lost to Oklahoma since 1988. 
Colorado will bring one of the nation's most potent offenses. The Buffaloes aver· age 512 yards per game and have been remarkably hal· anced, throwing for 261 and running for 251. That's a departure from a year ago, when Colorado threw it all over the field, but had a tough time running. 
Gibbs said the balance is due in part to a change in align­ment. The Buffaloes now use two tight ends most of the time, which Gibbs said gives them more of a power running game and also allows them to protect quarterback Kardell Stewart. 
That protection has paid off. Stewart has completed 56 per~ cent of his passes and thrown for a league-best 1,179 yards while being intercepted just twice. He has t;wo outstanding receivers in Charles Johnson and Michael Westbrook, whom Gibbs said give Colorado the best tandem in the country. 
"They've really shored up a lot of areas offensively," he said. "I think they've created more problems for you defen­sively because what they're doing, they're doing very well." 
The same can be said for Oklahoma. Cale Gundy has had a great start at quarter~ back, completing nearly 62 percent of his passes and doing a nice job when the Sooners run the option. He scored three times on the ground against Texas, two of those on option plays. 
Oklahoma also has turned the ball over just six times in the first five games. 
"It's a better Oklahoma team than we've seen in a few years," Colorado coach Bill McCartney said."It will take a superior effort for Colorado to beat them." 
By BRENT KALLESTAD 
Associated Press Writer 

TALLAHASSEE 
After finally beating archrival Miami, Florida State coach Bobby Bowden is warning his team not to take its next chal­lenge lightly. 
The Seminoles (6-0, 4-0 in the Atlantic Coast Conference) play host to No. 15 Virginia (5-0, 3­
0) in a match up Saturday of the ACC's last two unbeaten teams. 
"They haven't played a Miami or a Florida, but you couldn't tell the way they've played that they're not just as good," 

Gagliardi about to become fifth coach to win 300 
------~-------------~----------­
The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 15, 1993 
Bowden warns his team about Cavaliers 
By MIKE NADEL 
AP Spons Writer 
COLLEGEVILLE, Minn. 
John Gagliardi gets out of bed, stretches his arms, looks o~t his window and sees per­fection. 
Leaves of yellow and red and orange and green and brown. Grass, kissed with dew, trimmed just so. The big church steeple set against a sunny sky. Students, bookbags slung across their shoulders. headed for class. 
Since 1953, it has been that 

-

way most autumn mornings at St. John's University for Gagliardi, who is about to become the fifth coach in col­lege football history to record 300 wins. 
A few mornings, however, have been less than perfect. 
Ninety-five times, Gagliardi has awakened after losses, his body aching from a restless night of sleep, his mind racing. What went wrong? What could we have done differently? What could I have done differ­ently? 
"It's pretty silly, really, but I still get a pit in my stomach when we lose," Gagliardi said. "It's not like my job is ·on the line or like one loss is going to cancel out all the wins, but I still g~t. upset." 

WOMEN'S STUDIES PROGRAM--IUSB RELIGIOUS STUDIES DEPARTMENT-· SAINT MARY'S DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY--NOTRE DAME 
PRESENT 
DR. ROSEMARY KELLER 
ACADEMIC DEAN, GARRETT-EVANGELICAL THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY EVANSTON, IL .. 
"CALLING AND CAREER: THE DILEMMA OF VOCATION IN SACRED AND SECULAR CONTEXTS" 
TUESDAY,OCTOBER19 
12.00 • 1.00 PM LUNCHEON: $10.00 CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION ALL ARE INVITED 
For more information, contact Kern Trembath, Dep't. of Theoloav, Notre Dame: 631-4254 
Bowden said. 

"Their defense did an excel­lent job shutting us down," he said about last year's 13-3 win at Virginia. 
But that was the last time any team has come close to slowing down the Seminoles' "fast­break" offense run by Charlie Ward. 
Florida State has averaged 
46.7 points in the 10 games since last year's visit to Virginia and hasn't scored less than 27 points in any single contest. 
While linebacker Derrick Brooks may be out with a neck injury, Bowden said he isn't worried about a letdown in the aftermath of the Miami victory. 
"This team hasn't responded like some of our teams," he said. "I don't think these kids are going to let down." 
And the oddsmakers appar­ently agree, making Florida State a 25-point favorite in the, \ game. 4iJ; 
"That's a big league footbaTf team and I don't use 'big league' very much," Virginia coach George Welsh said. 
"They have some hellacious backs," Welsh said. "They can be devastating. The running game is just as effective for them as the pass." 
Tailbacks Sean Jackson, Marquette Smith and Warrick Dunn have combined for 874 rushing yards and 13 touch­downs. The trio has 31 recep­tions in an offense averaging 554 yards this season. 
Ward has completed 70 per­cent of his passes for an aver­age of 261 yards, including 13 scoring throws and only one interception in 190 tries. 
"Charlie is doing everything I could've hoped," Bowden said. "He's making big play after big play." 
The Cavaliers' defense has posted two shutouts and is allowing just 10 points a game this season, and Bowden fears they're a better team than the one that slowed the Seminoles a year ago. 
"The one thing they've done is the bottom line," Bowden said. "They have won. Whatever they've had to do. they did." 
Virginia has averaged 38 points and 448 yards as it read­ies for the tougher part of its schedule, beginning with Florida State. 


Suzanne s:f{ora[ 
See our 'Beautiju{ ~ses -Daily Delivery 
-Wire $ervice -Student Discount 
Located 
Comer of 

Ironwood & Edison 288.-7551 
~~ss  in SollfiJ  
q;'Q  (j  
~ 

.....Q.I 

(I) +"'••'••~~ 
A Survev of Datino Couoles 
If you are currently in a· dating relationship, we are interested in your views about yourself, 
your partner and the relationship. We would like to send you a· survey to complete at your convenience. As a way of thanking you ,. for your h~lp, we will enter your name in a 
lottery to win· one of many exciting prizes, .. including CASH! 
Please call us at 631,8791 for information or to sign up. We thank you for your help. 
(Prizes: cash prizes, dinner for 2 at Nick's Patio, General Cinema movie passes, Bonnie Doon's ice cream) 
Relationships research project Department of Psychology Unive'rsity of Notre Dame 
--~-------------~------~-----------~~---~---­
Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-
Sanders' return sparks crowd, Falcons' win over Rams 
By ED SHEARER 
AP SportS Writer 
ATLANTA 

Deion Sanders returned to football without any practice time Thursday night. 
He ignited a crowd of 45,231 that coach Jerry Glanville said helped his Atlanta Falcons snap a seven-game losing streak with a 30-24 victory over the Los Angeles Rams. 

"We came in one corner (back) short and Deion showing up couldn't have happened at a better time," Glanville said. 
"We want to thank the crowd because it was the noisest we've had," Glanville said. "Part of the credit for that goes to Deion. He gets 'em going." 
Billy Joe Tolliver's three scor­ing passes, two set up by Oklahoma rookie Darnell Walker's pass interceptions, provided the offensive spark. 
Tolliver connected with Andre Rison on TD passes of 21 and 42 yards, the long one coming with 4:40 left in the game, giv­ing Atlanta a 27-24 lead. 
The go-ahead score came after Walker returned his sec­ond interception 7 yards to the Atlanta 41. Walker's third­quarter interception at the Los Angeles 23 set up Tolliver's 3­yard scoring pass to David Mims. 
"This gets the monkey off our backs," Tolliver said. Tolliver also said having 

Dancing :at Lu . 
Winner of the 1992 
by Bnan Friel 

Tony Award for Best Play 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats: $7 
Wednesday, October 13 8:10p.m. Student and senior citizen discounts Thursday, October 14 8:10p.m. are available Wednesday, Thursday Friday, October IS 8:10p.m. and Sunday. Tickets are available at Saturday, October 16 8:10p.m. the LaFortune Ticket Office. Master ~unday, October 17 2:30 p.m. Card and Visa orders call: 63 1-8128. 
f­
"" 
,.$. 
{ l 
f, '6 

Sanders, who was in on three tackles but wasn't used on kick returns, was a big lift. 
"He's some athlete," Tolliver said. "Every time he's out (there) he elevates the play." 
The Rams drove from their 20 to the Atlanta 27 before bog­ging down on four consecutive incomplete passes, finally turn­ing the ball over to the Falcons, who ran out the final 43 sec­onds. 
Sanders played most of the final three quarters at his familiar right cornerback spot after entering the game in the nickel defensive package with just over four minutes left in the opening quarter. 
Sanders had been with the Atlanta Braves in Philadelphia for the NL playoffs Wednesday night, and when Atlanta was eliminated made it to the Georgia Dome just under three hours before gametime. 
''I'm a totally different player here than with the Braves," Sanders said. "Over here they look to me to be the captain. My health is still not recovered. I got tired out there and almost vomited." 
Norm Johnson added field 
goals of 28, 32 and 34 yards for 
Atlanta, the last coming after 
Walker forced a fumble on the 
kickoff after the Falcons took 
the lead. Melvin Jenkins recov­
ered the fumble. 
"They made some big plays, 
we didn't make them," Rams 
coach Chuck Knox said. 
"Turnovers hurt us, special 
teams coverage was poor," he 
The Obeerver/KyJ. Kuuk 

Jerome Bettis, former Notre Dame star, scored on a two yard run for 
the Los Angeles Rams. 
said. "When you play like that you'll probably get beat." Jim Everett had put the Rams (2-4) in the lead with a pair of 
Happy Birthday 
IE 

Got ya! 
You're officially an adult now! 
Love Christine, Karen, and the rest of3A. 
long scoring pass plays -56 yards to Willie Anderson in the opening quarter and 60 yards to Cleveland Gary in the third. 
The 60-yarder to Gary broke a 17-17 tie with 27 seconds left in the third quarter. 
Gary hurdled Sanders after making the catch around the Atlanta 40, fell to the turf, got up and then pulled out of Jessie Tuggle's grasp inside the 20 and sprinted down the left side­line to the end zone. 
The Rams also scored on a 2­yard run by Jerome Bettis in the second quarter following a 29-yard interception return by Shane Conlan to the Atlanta 16 and on a 52-yard field goal by Tony Zendejas on the final play of the first quarter. It was his 1Oth in a row at 50 yards or more. 
If your friends can't have a good time without drinking, maybe you need some friends who can. 
Make the choice to make a change. 
You know drinking and driving is risky. When alcohol is the center of social activities, there are other potential problems. 
r::B:-e_c_a-us_e_o-=-fy_o_u_r_d7 r7in_,k-,-in-g-,""'l'h_a_v_e_y_o_u_:e_v_e--,r?;;-.----"-------,Ifalcohol is creating problems for Do you? 
1. Passed out. you or someone you care about 1. 
2. 
Caused a fight or argument. ' 2. 

3. 
Missed class. seek help. 

4. 
Had a blackout (beon unable to remember things you said Sponsored by the office ofAlcohol3. or did whih~ drinking) and Drug Education. 4. 

5. 
Been physically or sexually assaulted. 5. 


Tend to drink fast? Spend time thinking about and planning the next time you'll drink. Drink because you're upset. Experience a personality change when you drink. Plan to set limits on drinking, but don't. 
·­
• 


----~-~-~--~ -~--~--~­
page 18 The Observer • SOCCER Friday, October 15, 1993 
-Men's soccer hopes to capture 01o01entu01 as season ends 
By MIKE NORBUT streak with a win over Eastern Michigan SportS Writer University Wednesday night. The fal­cons, 8-4 on the season, hold a share of 
The red hot Notre Dame men's soccer first place in the Mid-American team will be looking to gain momentum Conference with a 3-0 record. in preparation for the post season Sunday when they travel to Ohio to face The Irish share a 3-3-1 series record Bowling Green University. with the Falcons. Notre Dame suffered a 
"If we get on a big streak of wins, we'll 1-0 home loss to Bowling Green in 1989, 
be ready for the (Midwestern Collegiate the last time these two teams squared off. Conference) tournament," said sopho­more forward Bill Lanza, who leads the Despite the Joss of six starters and head team in scoring with eleven goals and coach Gary Palmisaro, who is on leave of thirteen assists. absence to help coach the U.S. World Cup 
Notre Dame 9-4 on the season, will ride team, from last year's 15-2-1 team, the a three game win streak into the contest. Falcons have not bowed to the odds. The Irish defensive unit has not given up Behind interim head coach Mel Mahler, a goal in the last 287:58 of play. who has filled in for Palmisaro, the 
Notre Dame trounced conference foe Falcons should prove to be a formidable Loyola of Chicago 7-0 Wednesday night foe for the Irish on Sunday. in a game that saw seven different play­ers contribute in the scoring. Goalies Bowling Green is led by senior mid­Bert Bader and David Smith combined to fielder Tom Kinney, who has tallied 
record Notre Dame's third straight seven goals and three assists on the sea­shutout of the week. son, and sophomore Ryan McCue, who 
"We're capable of playing that way has four goals and four assists. Goalie anytime we step on the field," said Irish Dan Traver has three complete shutouts coach Mike Berticelli, who hopes to on the year for Bowling Green. attain his third consecutive ten-win sea­son with a victory Sunday. Notre Dame will stress patience and 
With his three shared shutouts, Bader ball control by the midfielders, and they has broken the career shutout record for will look for offensive contribution from the Irish with 23. The previous record, Keith Carlson and Jean Joseph. 22, was set by John Milligan between Defenders Chris Dean and Dane Whitley 
The Observer/John Bingham 
1978-81. hope to smother the Falcon attack to help 
With his three shutouts in a row, goalie Bert Bader has broken the Notre Dame record for 
Bowling Green will enter the game hav­the Irish to their fourth consecutive 
career shutouts with 23. 
ing just snapped a three-game losing shutout. 

past No. 4 Connecticut, 2-0. so that it can properly set up defeated the Irish 2-1 last "We do not fear North its defensive alignment. "It's season at Alumni field. The
Soccer 

Carolina," Petrucelli said. important that they don't get Blue Devils took a 1-0 lead in "We have to guard against behind us," explained the first half and doubled it continued from page 24 being intimidated-by their Petrucelli. midway through the second. reputation, not by their play­Although this game will The Irish were unable to
teams. 

ers-because we believe we have a significant factor in score until the waning sec­This year's crew lost one of can play with them. We're the recruiting process if Irish onds of the game when
the three to graduation. A 
going in expecting to win." are victorious, Petrucelli Michelle McCarthy knockedsecond will be out this week­The Irish and the Tar Heels believes that the Duke game in her third goal of the sea­
end due to injury and the 
differ in many ways. Their will have an even greater son, unassisted.
third, senior Mia Hamm, has styles of play are mentality impact. Notre Dame has out­The Irish are 0-3 overallbeen playing with an injury oppose each other. Where recruited both schools in the versus the Blue Devils. This
this season. Hamm, who 
Notre Dame likes to slowly past two years, having the certainly could be the year
work the ball up the field number one recruiting class­for Notre Dame to claim its
33 assists last season en 
through its midfielders with es in the nation both years. first victory in the rivalry.
route to being named NCAA a ball-control mentality, However, Duke is Notre Three of Duke's top starters,Player of the Year, has only a North Carolina would rather Dame's most significant rival including leading scorer
team-leading 11 goals to 
rush the ball forward as fast in the recruiting process due Katherine Remy, will likelydate. 
as possible in a blitzing to the similarities in the insti­be out due to injury.
The Tar Heels have also 
offense. tutions and their athletic pro­
<t ·-··~(:."'; faced much closer competi­
In order to counter the Tar grams. Being 13-1 and ranked fifth 
. ·'!~~. '7 ·~ tion this year. They trailed 
Heel attack, the Irish are Unlike North Carolina, in the nation, the possible
• 
...-!111.;;;.-..,..iiJr::=IJ~;:-'';~-· .:.. No. 2 Santa Clara 2-0 in the adjusting their defensive 
Duke is very similar to Notre ramifications of Irish success ¥• first half of their meeting a scheme. Normally the squad Dame. It attracts the same this weekend are frightening.
few weeks ago before escap­
the Obaerver/Erlc Ruethllng defends all 120 yards of the type of player and has a com­However, this tournament
ing with a 3-2 win. In their 
Robin Mego is one of Notre Dame's players field, but it will allow UNC parable style of play. certainly bears the name
last game, they squeaked
from Texas. control of the back 40 yards Duke, which is 9-3-1, "Challenge" for a reason. 
Basketball season tickets now available 
Observer Staff Report Ticket Office, on the second floor of the JACC beginning 
Student applications will be in today until Thursday, Oct. 21. dorm mailboxes today, accord­ing to Bill Scholl Director of The price for the season tick­Ticketing and Marketing for the ets is $56 ($4 per game). The University of Notre Dame. three games over the various Students living off campus may holiday breaks have been pick-up their applications at the excluded from the package, but 
.MR.[!!] 
THE FUB/1/Vl
JONES 
1:45,4:30, 7:15, IO:oolPG-ui2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:45 
~­

·,~ tf.T ili,i./ -~~lJil} ·.·. 
..·. 
motRUMl\~
-
Heverl~Hitlblllies 
JAMAICAN BOBSLEDDERS? [ffi) ~.o. 2:00,4:45,7:00,9:15 
• 
D:MDLITIDN MAN :tt:-·• 
2:15,4:45, 7:30, 10:00 

--------------------~------­
~----------------~---------------------~ 
Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • NBA NEWS page 19 
Jordan's agel1lt: denies rumors of an attempt to steal spotlight 
Associated Ptess 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan's agent said Thursday his client timed his retirement not to embE.rrass but to show respect for Chicago Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf. 
A sports columnist questioned whether Jordan timed hi~ stun­ning announcement last Wednesday to upstage the Chicago White Sox as they began their bid for the American League champi­onship and embarrass Reinsdorf, who also holds a major stake in the baseball team. 
r;J. 

day with a 
"' 
"J:

Cappuccino 
.... or LaHe served 
1­

the MARIGOLD ::::> way with 0 
...,

fresh Croissants, 0 
<

French 
.::> 
Expanded
....

Bread 
Hours,

l and "'{ 
M-IF 

Jam 
8am·7pm

l "' ' 
I 
or 
Sat•
..... 
/

BiscoHi 8am·61>m 
I 
A. 
"7 
A. 

Now Available: r;J. 
::J 
Cappuccino 
0 >­
Espresso LaHe -lc" 
< 

I 
.... 
~ 
Q 


"I urged him to do it Tuesday afternoon because it started to leak," Jordan's agent, David Falk, said from his Washington office. "The only reason he did it Wednesday was hisrespect for Jerry Reinsdorf and his desire not to upstage baseball." 
Jordan threw out the first ball at Comiskey Park on Oct. 5 but later left the park under heavy security as news of his impending retirement began to filter. The story dominated Wednesday's news, eclipsing Chicago's Game 1 loss to Toronto. 
His formal announcement came Wednesday, during a news conference at the Bulls' Deerfield practice center. 

-
Mustaf's misdemeanor dismissed 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

A misdemeanor assault charge against Phoenix Suns forward Jerrod Mustaf was dis­missed Thursday because the man he allegedly attacked, a cousin, didn't appear to testify, a prosecutor said. 
Mustaf, 23, had been accused of hitting the cousin, LeVonnie Wooten, in the head with a cel­lular telephone at Mustaf's bookstore in Phoenix in March. Wooten worked at the store at the time. 
Mustaf's agent, Michael Statham, welcomed the dis­missal but criticized Glendale police for being slow in making an arrest in an unrelated homi­cide case in which Wooten has

HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS. 

I 
J 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 

SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
$5.95 
TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 
~¥~--~:
/ 

.<e.:·'-'"'-·4'-';.··(f·· \. 
--· ; ; tiJts;;;· < .• ·. ~ _\ t;:ll, \_.J 
been identified as a suspect but Mustaf's name also has sur­faced. 
"I think it's absolutely ludi­crous the time frame and the time parameters Glendale police are using to make an arrest," Statham said from Greenbelt, Md. 
Mustaf, who saw limited action last season, has been working out with the team as it prepares for Friday night's exhibition opener against Golden State. 
Michael Norville, an assistant Phoenix prosecutor, said the assault charge was dismissed without prejudice -meaning it could be refile:d later ­because Wooten did not appear to testify in Municipal Court . 
Althea Hayes, a former employee of Mustafs booksore, was shot to death July 22 in her Glendale apartment. The 28­year-old Hayes, who was three months' pregnant, had told friends that Mustaf was the father. Mustaf has declined to say whether they had sexual relations. 
Police have called Wooten a 

...........~..... 

Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dome or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your I D and we'll give you dl-you­con-eat spaghetti with your ct-ioice of marinara, tomato or meat sbuce. Plus unlimited fresh garden sciod and ~• ! worm garlic bread sticks; It's ol! -,~~r _ f
_ I 
justSD5.95.Andyoudonthove 0/..•.WJ ~ 
to be a moth major to figure ~ • 
out that that's a great deal. I I ·\li.-\:'IJ f<l ._, l·\! 1\ \"\I 

• Opposite Uni 'ersity Pork Moll, 277-6503. 
suspect in the slaying. A police search warrant affadavit filed in late July said a Hayes friend told police that Hayes called the friend the evening she was killed and said Wooten was at the apartment. 
Mustaf has denied any involvement in the slaying. Wooten, 26, has said he didn't work at the bookstore at the same time as Hayes and didn't know her. 
Glendale police traveled to Landover, Md. to take blood and hair samples and finger­prints from Mustaf and Wooten. DNA tests are being conducted on those samples as well as material from Hayes and the fetus, police spokesman Mitch Kelsey said. 
"We hope to see something by the first of December with respect to that analysis," Kelsey said. 
Kelsey said Glendale police consider Mustaf only an "inves­tigative lead" in the Hayes case because he was named on doc­uments which the department had to release under the state's public records law. 

-
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:30 
----~--­
page 20 The Observer • HOCKEY Friday, October 15, 1993 
-
Scrimmage with Waterloo gives hockey team a break 
By TIM SHERMAN Waterloo in the Joyce A.C.C. early-season confidence, but Sports Writer The game should provide the coach Ric Schafer is also look­Irish with some valuable game ing to see what he can expect 
The Notre Dame hockey team experience before opening their from this year's young squad. opens the 1993-94 season conference season. The team is Leading the Irish into their Saturday afternoon at 2:30 with obviously looking for a win, as second year of play in the an exhibition game against they would like to build some Central Collegiate Hockey 

Mighty Ducks' play stops the laughter 
Associated Press Tugnutt said. "It might go seconds left in regulation. 
somewhere else, but I thought "This was a great win for us, 
ANAHEIM it would be great for him to and we really needed it," 
The only team in professional have the puck. Somebody shot Tugnutt said. "We deserved sports to be named after a it over the glass, but somebody one against the Islanders the motion picture and financed by threw it back onto the ice." other night and we deserved an amusement park has made Tugnutt stood tall in the final this one tonight." its first triumphant splash. 80 seconds after his former The Oilers didn't dispute that. 
The Mighty Ducks of Anaheim team pulled its goalie for a "This is an expansion team elicited a chorus of snickers sixth attacker. He kicked out a and they're pretty good," goal­around the NHL when Disney shot from the left point by Dave tended Fred Brathwaite said. Corporation chairman Michael Manson and Jason Arnott's "But we shouldn't be losing to Eisner announced the name of point-blank rebound attempt in an expansion team -not this his team and his wife Jane the waning seconds. early into the season, anyway." 
Association, North America's premier college hockey confer­ence, is senior captain Matt Osiecki. Osiecki, who, accord­ing to Schafer is "is like a big steady rock that's always there", is anxious to get the season underway. He is "look­ing forward to Saturday to play against someone other than ourselves." After two weeks of hard practices, Waterloo should serve as a welcome change to drills and scrimmages. 
In addition to Osiecki, Schafer is expecting major contribtions Saturday from the sophomore line of Jamie Ling, Jamie Morshead, and Jay Matushak. Last year, the three combined for 67 points, and are looking for even better things against Waterloo. Starting in net for the Irish will be senior Greg Louder. Schafer expects him to see the majority of the playing time Saturday. 
Notre Dame is not quite sure what to expect from their oppo­nent,Waterloo, though they are going to see them play Western Michigan tonight. They do know that Waterloo will be very experienced, as many of their players range from 20-25 years old. Also, the team expects a extremely physical game. The Irish hope to use their speed and intelligence to offset the more mature Waterloo squad. Overall, how­ever, coach Schafer is not as concerned with Waterloo as he his is with his own team's per­formance. 
One of the main benefits of playing such an exhibition game is to get the team accus­tomed to game speed. In addi­tion, it will give freshmen the opportunity to gain some valu­able experience. According to Schafer "It's special to put on the Notre Dame sweater for the first time." 
Although a positive experi­ence, the first game can also cause quite a bit of nervousness for many freshmen. It is impor­tant to get this out of the way, for the Irish start their season right in conference, with a very difficult November. Schafer has a "renewed sense of confi­dence" about this year and would like to start the season "with some W's under our belts". Saturday against Waterloo will provide the Irish with their first such opportuni­ty. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Writers 
Interested in writing sports for the Observer? Enthusiasm the only prerequisite for the job. Meeting for all interested and current writers Monday, Oct. 18, 7 p.m. in Room 303 Haggar. Contact Mary Good or Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540 for more information. 
came up with "The Pond" as "We had never been in the the name of the team's arena. position of leading in the third 
But no one is laughing now, period," Wilson said after his especially not the Edmonton team nearly squandered a 4-0 Oilers, who became the Mighty advantage. "The first win feels 
Ducks' first victim when goalie real good. Our team has shown Ron Tugnutt's 28 saves secured a lot of character by bouncing a 4-3 victory Wednessay night back from the opening-night in the expansion team's third disaster." game. It also was Ron Wilson's Last Friday night's 7-2 loss to first win as an NHL coach. Detroit was followed two nights 
"I was looking for the puck at later by a 4-3 overtime defeat the end of the game -not for to the New York Islanders -a myself, but for the coach," game the Ducks tied with 32 

~ 
.....,.~,::::::;:::::~ 

FLOWER MARKET 
"WE DELIVER SMILES" 
YOUR NOTRE DAME CONNECTION 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16 
GET YOUR ROSES NOW 

-1 DOZ. ROSES -$19.95 1 ROSE-$2.00 
WE DELIVER! 
1635 Edison Ad Use your credit card & 
Across from charge by phone: 
Linebacker 272-0902 

HAO/LULAC 
FALL DANCE 
Come dance the nig t away with performances by LOS BANDITOS and Salsa and Merengue by the OJ. 
Date: Friday, Oct. 15, 1993 Place: Stepan Center Time: 9 p.m. Price: $5 per couple, $4 per person 
Reception! 
r-------------~~-----~ 
Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer· CROSS COUNTRY page 21 
Women h.arriers to face six ranked teams 
By AMY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
The ninth ranked Notre Dame women's cross country team will be running in one of their toughest meets of the season, Sunday morning, at the Michigan Invitational. 


Emily Hood, Sarah Riley, and Kristy Kramer hope to lead the Irish into a secure bid to the NCAA Championships. 
lrving•s Delf 
BRE:A.KFAST &LUNCH 
Pastrami, Corned Beef, Chopped Liver, Lox Nova, Knish, Matzo Ball Soup 
s:z1 E. LaSalle 
2 minutes from campus 

FOR DETAILS Stop In to see our Salon, or call us at 
272·7653 
Expires October 29, 1993 

199:~~-94 Notr~:! Dame 
In a field composed of ten teams, eight are currently ranked in the country. This will show the Irish how they stand against these teams. 
"It's probably the toughest meet we've run in," said coach Tim Connelly. "Even if we get fourth, fifth, or sixth, we've run 
Men's Basketball 
Student Ticket Distribution: SENIORS ·-October 19 JUNIORS/U.\W/GRAD-October 20 SOPHOMOI~ES/FRESHMEN -October 21 

a good race. We just have to go out and run as well as we can on Sunday." 
The top teams the Irish are looking to keep pace with are Michigan, ranked third, and Alabama, who are tied with them for ninth. In the Notre Dame Invitational two weeks ago, the Irish upset Alabama to take the title. They will once again try to surpass them. 
"We think that we're the sec­ond best team there behind Michigan. There are going to be a lot of good teams," said junior Sarah Riley. "I think even if we finish third or fourth it will be a good showing for us." 
The other tough teams they'll face are Stanford, ranked eleventh, Colorado, ranked thirteenth, Virginia, number 16, and Dartmouth, 17. 
Twelve runners will compete for the Irish. Junior Emily Husted will be running again, after missing the Notre Dame Invitational. Also, sophomore Amy Siegel will be a new run­ner contributing to the team effort. The team looks for strong performances to be turned in from Riley, freshman Emily Hood, and junior Kristi Kramer. 
"I know there's going to be a lot of competition, so we'll just have to go out and prove our­selves," said Hood. 
The team hopes to once again prove that they deserve to be ranked among the best. Each week they move closer to their goal of competing in Nationals. 
"I think we have a new out­
look toward Nationals," said 
Riley. "It's a more tangible 
goal now that we're ranked as 
a team." 
Men running most important meet -­
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team returns to compe­tition for the first time in over two weeks this Sunday, as they 
travel north to compete in the Michigan Invitational. 
The ninth­ranked Irish will need to apply every­thing they 


learned in the John Cowan 
extra week of practice if they hope to com­pete against an extremely tal­ented field consisting of the likes of Alabama, Dartmouth, Stanford, #7 Colorado, and #10 Michigan. In all, 14 other schools will lace up against the Irish at 10:15 this Sunday morning. 
While obviously looking to a win, the Irish squad is not ready to concede an easy victo­ry. Any kind of success will be hard earned this Sunday, and will require a solid overall per­formance from the entire team. 
In addition to the accom­plished Irish runners Mike McWilliams, Nate Ruder, Derek Seiling, John Cowan, and Matt Althoff, the Michigan Invitational will showcase the likes of Michigan's Scott McDonald and freshman sensa­tion Kevin Sullivan, and Stanford's Gary Stoltz, the top returning finisher from nation­als last season. It is indeed a competitive field of runners. 
In order to meet with success, the Irish squad will stick to their "run as a team" philoso­phy. This method of running has brought the team great success so far this season, and is valued as vital to success by each Irish runner. 
"We have to do the same thing we did at the Notre Dame Invitational," said junior Nate Ruder. "We have to stay together as a group. It is a good opportunity for our newer runners to learn how to com­pete against top notch teams." 
This Sunday's meet is seen as the greatest stepping stone for the team this year, as it gives them a chance to compete against schools from all nine NCAA districts. In doing so, the Irish will have the chance to improve in their national rank­ing, as well as help solidify a spot at the NCAA Championships on November 22. 
Should the Irish not finish in the top three at the highly com­petitive NCAA District IV meet on November 13, their only hope to advance to the nation­als will rely on their being granted an at-large bid. By fm­ishing well above teams from other districts in the nation during the regular season, the Irish will help themselves in the standings to receive an at-large bid if they need one. 
"This is an important race for us," said McWilliams. "If we can beat teams from other dis­tricts, we can help solidify a spot at the nationals." 
The Irish squad will hope to send a very firm message to the rest of the country this Sunday morning. They know that doing so will be made easier if they run as a team, and a total team effort l.s what they intend to put forth. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Spaces still available for the opening of MICHIANA'S LARGETST 
INDOOR FLEA MARKET .-Fri.-Sat. 9-6:00 p.m. Produce Dept. Open Located 215 S. Main, Downtown South Bend, IN 
(Across from the Federal Building, next door to Hardee's & less than 4 miles from Notre Dame) 
-Parking Available ­289-7070 289-7074 
Thur. 
forl"
$2500 $2000
Fri. 
100 Aweek Sat. Payable Monthly 
Vot~:J Be~~ Ori~ntal Restaurant in Michiana by

130 Dixie Way N., South Bend AIiclziana Noh•'.,:
(next Ill Ran<lall's Inn) 
....
BE A PART OF IT! 


Observer Staff Report 
The Belles volleyball team lost in four games last night to Concordia College. 
Saint Mary's pulled out a win in the first game 15-13, but were unable to produce a win in the next three, losing 11-15, 6-15, 7-15. 
"In the last two games the scores don't reflect how intense the team played," Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "They were a very good team and we played very well." 
Michelle Martino contributed 14 digs and 55 assists, senior tri-captian Kim Branstetter had 30 digs, 17 kills and 14 points for the Belles. 
Sophomore tri-captian Sara Stronczek provided eight digs, nine kills and 12 points, Erika Freitag had eight digs, 13 kills and Mary Wheeler contributed 


---~-------~--~-------~-----~~-----­
page 22 The Observer· SAINT MARY'S SPORTS Friday, October 15, 1993 
-Saint Mary's to face St. Joseph's 
By CHERYL GILLILAND 
Spons Writer 
After forcing a dissapointing tie against Trinity last weekend. the Saint Mary's Soccer team is looking for a victory as they face St. Joseph's College on Saturday. 
"Ties are always disheartening," said head caoch Tom Van Meter. "We are going to play hard and give all we have." 
The Belles beat St. Joseph's for the first time last year and they are expecting a tough game tomorrow. 
Senior Katie Daniel is anxiously looking forward to Saturday's game after a mem­orable incident against St. Joseph's last year. Daniel scored in last year's game and was then taken out by one of thier players. 
"They are a very phsical team," remem­bers Daniel. "But I think that any chal­lenges that they present, we can over­come." 
Van Meter is also very concerned about several injuries which have plagued the team in the last few weeks. Sophomore starter Tina Brockman is out for the rest of the season with pneumonia which will certainly burden the team in their remaining games. 

Senior tri-captain Mandy Eiler is having knee trouble, and senior tri-captain Magan Dalsaso is also having difficulties after getting kicked during the Calvin game. 
"Despite the injuries, if we pull together as a team and play strong, I think we can beat St. Joe's," said senior Patty Hand. 
Sophomore goalie Ann Kuehne will return after serving a suspension during the Trinity game last weekend. Freshman Brigid Keyes, who filled in for Kuehne, will be able to return to the mid­field, which will be a great advantage for the Belles. 
Coach Van Meter and his players are very optimistic about tomorrow's gmae, despite any hinderances that exist. 
"Our team is pretty unified," comment­ed Daniel. "Our unity goes beyond the field. We've progressed to a higher level and I think we can maintain that level of intensity for the rest of the season." 
''I'm sad that this is my final year," added Hand. "I've had great experiences that last four years. and I'd like to end Megan Dalsaso hopes to overcome a slight injury to defeat St. Joseph's college on 

with victories in the rest of our games." Saturday. 
Belles lose to Concordia despite intense effort 
eight digs and 11 kills to the effort. 
The Belles' offense played well and was able to produce many side-outs, but was unable to convert its opportunities into points. 
"We played great defensive­ly," Schroeder-Biek said. "When it came time for us to put the ball away we just weren't preforming." 
Senior tri-captain Martino suffered an injury to her finger, but continued play for the Belles. Schroeder-Biek said that she hopes that her injury is not a more serious facture which could hurt the team. 
The Belles, now 14-8 will travel to to Indianapolis this Saturday to take on Divsion II University of Indianapolis. 

fJuNLIICE 
14CIMMPIDN 
Tf)fMII 
Tlae .ltloUo Tlaat .ltlotfvates • 
Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 
Distributed by:

1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 

209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
look for theN' Image logo on the tag. tt"s your guarantee of qualtty. Why settle for second best7 
Play tJI<.e a Champoon Today. "'pmd1ng 




---~~----------------------------------------~--. 
Friday, October 15, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 23 SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
-

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON 


"Oh, God! It's that creepy Ted Sheldon and Louis Dickerson.... They're skinkheads, you know." 
OF INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

ACROSS 26 Toppers for 56 Game fish Brittsh bishops 57 One who 

1 F.D.R.'s pet 28 LikH the Bad dreads working name for Lands with computers Eleanor 32 Plant used as 59Camedown 5 Sudra or an antidote for &o Coconut fiber Vaisya snakebites 61 "... and ye shall 10Jayhawk 
34 Pluto, to Plato --in haste": 14 Skulk 
36 Violinist Bull Ex.12:11 15 Starwort 37 London's --&2 Actress Copley 
16 TV's Hawkeye of Court &3 Deli's cold-­17 Malarial fever 38 Captures 64 Some Brahmins 18 Casually 39 Palm or sole 65 C.E.O., e.g. 
employed dock 40 "QEI-," Uris workers book DOWN

20 Role forM. 41 Defame 

lAtE THE KEYS
Monroe 42 Juridic 1 Sand-trap shot 22 Shrub bearing 43 Stat· in Draco 

CALL ACAB.
2 Boring tool floribunda 45 Sha.rp Italian 3 Habit of23 Competitor at cheese grinding the Yonkers 47 Prelim. remarks teeth 25 Anatomical 49 Boc:caccio tale 4 Doubters wrinkle 52 Gazing in awe 

5 Swiveling wheel 6 Rowan 7 Hip appendage 

ANSWER TO PREVIOlJIS PUZZLE 
a Purport 9 Obliterations 10 Catchall 31 Fir or pine 46 Polyphonic 53"-hard Moises-board compositions hearts ...": 12 Sept. 13, e.g. 32 Elasticity 
48 Actress from Shak. Ireland:
13 Sprint 33A mil. body 54 Sad news, for 
1860-1916
19 Wine-hot water 35Aiain-, short DINING HALL 
50 Nantes's river 
drink French actor 55-a turn

51 Gambado
21 Cartoonist 38 Certain (cook perfectly) 
52 Year in reign of 
Soglow photographs Philip IV of 58 Tucker's24 Therapeutic 39 Treat with awe France partner

process, for 41 Ocean short greyhound 27 Type of falcon 42 Uncooled Get answers to any three clues pumice 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
number 44 They make vein 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
30 O'Neill's mother efforts 



(JJHAT's VJ•TH THe. Suo"<" THEil-~, f'JATE.? 
Go,,...G To A.... 
___bJ___ 


CROSSWORD 

/<.E.ML'17_ · 
!J-krH WHo? 
I 
~ 
] 


~ 
Friday, l)ct.l5 8:30pm-] :30am, Ballroom 
featuring ... 
~WINGI~ LRA"'DAD~ 
Blues Band 

Oct. 15 & 16 8pm & 10:30 Cushing Auditoruim $2 Admission 
STUDENT UNION a>ARD 
SUB: Crazy stuff and more! 
-
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, October 15, 1993 
Carolina on their minds 
Women's soccer meets top ranked Tar Heels in Texas shootout 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Playing the most important weekend in its program's history, the Notre Dame women's soccer team travels to Houston, Texas this weekend to compete in the Challenge College Classic with the likes of national powerhouses No. 1 North Carolina, sixth ranked Stanford, and eighth ranked Duke. 
The fifth ranked Irish will face off with the Tar Heels this afternoon at 4 pm and wrap up the weekend at noon on Sunday against the Blue Devils. 
The Challenge College Classic is in its second year of existence. It is hosted by the Challenge Soccer Club of Houston, in which Notre Dame players Tiffany Thompson, Stephanie Porter and Robin Mego once played. The Classsic's goal is to bring competitive Division 1 college teams into an area which is loaded in young talent but lacking in quality col­lege programs. 
Last year the participants were little known Arkansas-Little Rock, Army, and the Texas A&M club team. Tournament officials then contacted Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli upon the suggestion of Thompson's mother, and Petrucelli advised them which teams would best fill out the tornament roster. What ensued was the establishment of perhaps the most important regular sea­son tourney in the history of women's soccer. 
"This is probably the biggest regular season event that's ever taken place," said Petrucelli. "I don't know that any­one's ever had this caliber of teams together." 
"It should be a great show case for women's soccer and for the country," said Duke head coach Bill Hempen. 
Indeed, last year's NCAA tournament final consisted of North Carolina and Duke, and Stanford finished in the top live. 
"For us," said Petrucelli, "to be involved with the elite teams that are invited to this tournament is an honor." 
An Irish win over the Tar Heels this afternoon would become the most leg­endary victory in the history of Notre Dame soccer. North Carolina has won 68 consecutive games and has not lost since October of 1990. It has claimed 11 of the last 12 national championships under the guidance of 15 year head coach Anson Dorrance, who has a 275­8-9 career record. 
Dorrance also coaches the national team and therefore has an upper hand in the recruiting process. lie is consid­ered the main reason why UNC has con­tinued its perennial dominance. 
The Tar Heels, however, are suspect­ed by some to be weaker this season than in recent years. For the past few years the squad has been able to rely on three phenomenal players along with its normal cast of outstanding players who are on par with the leaders of opposing 

Freshman Cindy Daws may struggle even more than she is here against Evansville when she and her teammates travel to Texas for a tournament in which they are only one of three ranked teams, including the top ranked Tar Heels. 

see SOCCER I pagel8 

--
Irish Hockey Sophomore Jamie Ling and the Irish get a break from practice when they scrimmage Waterloo. 
see page 20 
Inside SPORTS 


Saint Mary's The Belles drop a volley­ball match to Concordia, while the soccer team prepares for St. Joseph's. 
see page 22 

Cross Country Mike McWilliams leads the men to the Michigan Invitational to face some of the nation's best. 
see page 21 








