--------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------~~ 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 112 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC run-offs decide next year's class leaders 

By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
Runoff results for Saint Mary's sophomore and senior class elections were decided yesterday. 
Cour~ney Swift was elected senior class president and Ja­neen Gillig was elected sopho­more class president, according to Melissa Whelan, interim election commissioner. 
Swift's ticket gained 66.18 percent of the vote while Petro­vic's ticket had 28.98 percent. 
4.83 percent of the votes ab­stained. Swift's ticket includes Katie Baal, vice-president, Lau­ren Siragusa, secretary and Lisa Rania, treasurer. 
" I don't know what to say. I'm excited and I hope we can make it the best and funnest year yet," said Swift. 
According to Swift, the cam­paign ran smoothly. Monday's voters' turnout pleased her, as well, since the turnout was as good as last Thursday's elec­tions. 
"I'd like to thank the Petrovic platform for making it a healthy 

s 
election for those who participated," Swift added 
"We were disappointed but we felt we gave it our all."said Petrovic. "We thought we had a realistic platform but things change." 
According to Petrovic, she hoped that Swift's ticket will fulfil their promise of change and she wished them well. 
Gillig's ticket collected 58.92 percent votes while Lisa Whisler's ticket had 36.93 per­cent. There was 4.15 percent abstaining votes. On Gillig's ticket are Gretchen Johnson, vice-president, Jayne Gillig, secretary and Anne Hurley, treasurer. 
According to Janeen Gillig, her ticket's first goal will be to unite the sophomore class. "We want to hold more class func­tions like a sophomore cruise 
see RUN-OFF I page 4 


SUB chooses new staff members for •93-94 
By JOHN LUCAS Assistant News Editor 
Focusing on creativity and organization, the Student Union Board (SUB) recently named a 
• 
SENATE/ page 3 

• 
BOG/ page 3 


new staff for the upcoming year. 
Chosen by a process of both application and interview, the new SUB staff was selected by a combination of new and old Executive Board members, according to junior Ellen Zahren, the new SUB Board manager. AnTostal, the 
Sophomore Literary Festival, and Collegiate Jazz festival positions will have separate application and interview processes. 
Working under Zahren on the Executive Board are Kate Keckler, director of marketing, Besty Haskins, director of relations, Chris Liang, director of programming and Jamie Morris, controller. 
The number and quality of campus events could be improved, according to Zahren. 
"Right now, we're working for more daring and creative programming... we want to take typical events like AnTostal and Winterfest and break away 


Calling all math majors 
The Observer/ Julie Kozdras 

Mathematics professor, Gudlauger Thorbergsson aids undecided students in choosing a majo'-'r.________________, 
from tradition, while keeping our goals in mind," she said. 
One major improvement in the programming department would be the improvement of the campus movie structure, according to Liang. Next year may bring the end of the Thursday night movie, while a Sunday matinee may be introduced. 
While programming is mainly interested in campus events, the marketing department will work with students to improve the quality of SUB advertising, according to Stephanie Reday, assistant marketing researcher. 
For the first time in recent memory, the department is 
using a marketing researcher to draw more students to SUB events, Reday said. 
"I want people to appreciate SUB ideas more. If more students attend things that they've done this year, I'll feel like I've done something," Reday explained. 
In addition, Zahren said that an increased use of dorm liaisons could benefit the marketing department. 
Zahren, formerly a director of programming, cited lack of training as one of the obstacles to the success of last year's SUB board. To avoid that problem 
see SUB I page 4 

TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1993 
J-Board 
. .


reVISIOnS proposed 
By LISA WOLTER News Writer 
DuLac revisions concerning the Judiciary Boards (J-Boards) in Notre Dame dormitories were the main topic at this weeks Campus Life Council 
(CLC) meeting. 
Rich Delevan, director of J­Board policy, presented his recommendations for the legal department to the CLC regard­ing J-Boards that consisted of four central aspects: a regular meeting time, standardized hearing procedures, a training seminar and a reformed selec­tion process of J-Board mem­bers. 
A regular schedule for the J­Board would alleviate the prob­lem of convening the meetings and would also allow the Hall Staff ample time to determine which cases would be suitable for J-Board consideration, ac­cording to Delevan. 
The issue of standardized procedures is "very important," said Father Andre Leveille of Cavanaugh Hall, because "there has to be a procedure against which someone can say 'my rights were violated.'" 
Delevan proposed that though there is an irregular oc­currence of penalties and of­fenses, it is possible to ensure regularity in procedure. 
A training seminar, said Del­evan, would be helpful, and proposed that the Office of Residence Life and the Judi­ciary Council conduct these seminars to demonstrate the Administration's support of a reformed J-Board. 
The selection process of the J-Board committee continues to be debated. Father Mike Sulli­van of Carroll Hall said that 
see CLC I page 4 


Speaker attacks American racism 
BY JIM VOGL News Writer 
In her speech yesterday, "A Collar in My Pocket," educator Jane Elliott spoke against white supremacy in America. 
"I'm going to offend every­body in the audience at least once," Jane Elliott warned an audience at Washington Hall last evening before presenting a workshop on discrimination. 
"Everyone in this room was born a racist," Elliott an­nounced. "If you weren't, you're a slow learner, a dis­abled learner or you haven't been listening ... In this country, education is teaching people how to good white people." 
Elliott incited a crowd of about 75 to "forget about school. it's time to get educated." using the word's literal translation to lead out of ignorance. 
Elliott examined and criti­cized common discriminatory perceptions. She said that racism is created through a negative feeling about black­ness, and that inherent white superiority is an absurd inven­tion of the white society. 
"We are an insane society ly­ing to each other on a daily ba­sis." 
"It's a white attitude and a white behavior problem. We need to cure it and get rid of it right now." 
Elliot recalled an interview in which Diane Sawyer, in attempt to show her lack of racial bias, told writer Alice Walker: "When I look at you, I don't see a black female." 
Elliott spoke against society's tendency to endorse the melting pot, using this analogy: "When you serve a salad, do you throw it all in a blender and whip it up? No, you make a salad so each of the elements maintain their identity... We can't pretend (racial) differences don't exist. That's what makes us all so interesting, important, valuable." 
Elliott encouraged the audi­ence to recognize the contribu­tions of people of color, saying that many of them may have advanced "from slavery to middle-and upper-class" in as few as three generations. 
She then challenged "racists" to live without such necessities as the clock, electricity, fire, paper, cloth, the alphabet, the numerical system, rubber, etc.-all inventions from "people of color." 
Elliott became famous when she began a "Blue Eyes, Brown Eyes" discrimination exercise to her third-grade class in Riceville, Iowa, the day after the assasination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
For two days, she convinced class members they were su­perior or inferior based on their eye color. The experiment caused some "bright" students to flounder in intelligence quizzes. Meanwhile children previously deemed dyslexic by other students and teachers read and wrote flawlessly with the encouragement. 
A few days later, ABC filmed a Peabody Award-Winning documentary "The Eye of the Storm" from Elliott's classroom. In the 25 years since then, she has performed the exercise in front of teachers, universities, and corporations in attempt to free people of socially­contracted racism. 
Throughout those years, El­
see RACISM/page 4 


page2 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Why do bad things happen to good people? 
Why do bad things happen ~~~~......~--1 

to  good  people?  This  Mark McGrath  
question has been pondered  
in society for ages. In fact,  Sports Writer  
many people have published  

books trying to explain this phenomenon. In my past studies in Theology, this topic has always been a question that people have trouble answering. No one knows for sure what the reasoning for the bad things is but all people must try to accept what happens and move on with their lives no matter how difficult this task may be. 
The Notre Dame community has had its share of bad things happening to good people. The incident which sticks out in my mind the most vividly is the women's swim team bus accident last year. I was working at :rM Observer on that fateful Thursday night/Friday morning. I was a good friend of Meghan Beeler and I can remember my horror when I heard that the team was involved in a bus crash. I spent much of the night telephoning the local hospitals to see if I could find out the status of Meghan and another friend, but as the night progressed I began to realize the severity of what had happened. I was unable to confirm anything about Meghan, but I found out my other friend was relatively safe. 
I left :rM Observer office that nighVmorning not knowing for sure what had happened to Meghan but I was certain that something bad had happened. Meghan was a fabulous person who excelled in everything she ever did. She was a great friend as well as an accomplished student and swimmer. When I heard for sure what had really happened to Meghan I was deeply saddened and attempted to search for the reasons why something this bad had to happen to someone like Meghan. 
Though I searched long and hard through my heart and my mind, I have never really been able to find an answer that satisfies my conscience. I realize that I must try to remember Meghan and everything she did. At the very least this will allow me to best remember what a great person she was. 
The most recent occurence of this 'bad things happening to good people' phenomenon involved one of my friends. This person had always strived to help others. This friend was very involved in the Notre Dame community and had always wanted the best for others. 
One night, my friend made a bad decision which involved drinking too much. This decision to drink to excess led to an unfortunate incident. I have spoken with my friend and realize that the friend has learned from the experience. However, the one bad decision has tarnished this friends life. 
Not only has my friend had to deal with the consequences set forth by the State of Indiana, but my friend has had to accept the consequences set forth by the Office of Hesidence Life. My friend has had some serious sanctions imposed for the actions resulting from the drinking. 
I have tried to fathom the reasons why bad things happen to good people. It seems that freak things happen and lead to incidents which have a direct effect on all the people involved. Maybe someday someone will be able to explain this phenomenon to the world, but for the time being I think that people must accept what happens and try to move on as best as they can. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL New Bar Codes Appearing on Mail 
•WASHINGTON (AP) -Many of the letters arriving in America's mailboxes Monday had longer codes printed below the address -an effort to speed sorting by automation.The new bar codes, a series of long and short lines like the codes on food and other product, permit machines to sort business mail down to the letter carrier's route.The codes do not apply to nonbusiness mail sent by individuals.ln addition to the 5-digit ZIP code, the new bar codes will include four digits for speed sorting and two additional digits for a carrier's route. For the first, time the letters also will carry a printed version of the code for sorting by hand if necessary. 
White House Would Move Summit 
•WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House said today it would consider moving President Clinton's summit with Boris Yeltsin to Moscow only if the embattled Russian leader requests a change. It also suggested it could deal with "other reformers" in Russia if Yeltsin loses his political struggle.Communications Direct George Stephanopoulos said "there are no plans to move the summit," scheduled for April 3 and 4 summit in the western Canadian city of Vancouver"The president said ... he wants to go forward with plans to meet with Yeltsin in Vancouver. We intend to continue to plan for that summit and we continue to intend to go," Stephanopoulos said. He also said that Clinton at this time has no plans of changing his defense spending plans because of the current crisis. Moyerssaid Clinton sent a message to Yeltsin on Saturday similar to his public statement of support for the Russian president. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Auditions for faculty-directed one acts "Sister Mary Ignatius, Stalag 69", or "II Fornicazione", auditions will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in room 16 Regina Hall. No preparation is required and interested designers and stage managers are also invited. For more information call James Birdner at 284-4644. 

•Juniors-Rhodes 
& Marshall Scholarships informa­tion meeting for deadline dates and application process tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 120 Law School. If unable to attend obtain an information sheet at 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 22 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 286,549,860 -0.84 to 247.34 S&P COMPOSITE 

-1.30 to 448.88 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-8.10 to 3,463.48
UNCHANGED 611 


GOLD 
-$0.20 to $329.60 /oz 
SILVER 
-$0.6 to $3.648/oz 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and warmer today with a 70 percent chance of light rain with highs in the upper 40's and lows in the middle 30's. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  42  30  
AUanta  73  54  
Bogota  66  45  
Cairo  68  48  
Chicago  37  33  
Cleveland  45  34  
Dalles  63  56  
Detroit  42  34  
Indianapolis  52  36  
Jerusalem  55  43  
London  52  50  
Los Angeles  78  58  
Madrid  72  52  
MinneapoHs  37  27  
Moscow  41  30  
Nashville  64  44  
NewYor1<  50  36  
Paris  59  54  
Philadelphia  51  33  
Rome  59  45  
Seattle  55  47  
South Bend  47  35  
Tokyo  57  41  
Washington, D.C.  56  40  


© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
CLOUDY 
WORLD 

At Least One Dead in Tibet Quake 
• BEIJING (AP) -A weekend earthquake severely damaged a rural town in Tibet and killed at least one resident, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Tuesday.The earthquake shook the remote region late Saturday with a force of 6.6 on the Richter scale, signifying a tremor capable of causing severe damage.Xinhua said houses collapsed in the town of Ngamring, where the death occurred. It had no other details.Ngamring is about 230 miles west of Lhasa. 
Judge Withdraws From Case 
• 
PENSACOLA, Fl -A judge removed himself from the case of a man charged with killing a doctor who performed abortions, saying Monday he is a longtime friend of the defendant's father. Circuit Judge Frank Bell's decision delayed a hearing on defendant Michael 

F. 
Griffin's requests to be released on bond and represent himself without the aid of a lawyer. Griffin, 31, is charged with first-degree murder of Dr. David Gunn, who was shot as he arrived at a women's clinic in the midst of an anti-abortion demonstration. The change also means a delay in Griffin's trial date from May 3 to some time after May 19. The 4 7 -year-old doctor from Eufaula, Ala., was shot three times in the back at the rear of the Pensacola Women's Medical Services clinic while Rescue America activists demonstrated in front of the building. 

•Information 
Meeting for two field courses offered by the Department of Anthropology this summer: Archaeo­logical Field School with Professor Mark Schurr, and Ethnographic Field Methods and Techniques with Profes­sor Martin F. Murphy. Both are six week courses May 17 -June 25. May be taken for Graduate credit, including May graduates. Meeting is tonight at 7 p.m. in 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1775: In a speech to the Virginia Provincial Convention, Patrick Henry said, "Give me liberty, or give me death!" 

• 
In 1919: Benito Mussolini founded his Fascist political movement in Milan, Italy. 

• 
In 1942: The U.S. government began moving Japanese­Americans from their West Coast homes to detention centers. 

• 
In 1981: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that states can require, with some exceptions, parental notification when teen-age girls seek abortions. 

• 
In 1991: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein shuffled his Cabinet, but kept in place his hard-line ministers of interior and defense to direct a crackdown on rebellion . 


News 
Emily Hage Lisa Aleman 
Production 
Kira Hutchinson Mike Scrudato 
Lab Tech 
Eric Ruethling 
Sports 
Jenny Marten Teds Peterson 
Business 
John Connorton Elizabeth Heinrich 
Graphics 
Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are resarved. 

p-.--~------~~-----, 
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 The Observer 

Professor discusses inner city violence 
BySHANNONDEVERNA 
News Writer 
People in the inner cities live by "The Code," said professor of sociology Elijah Anderson of the University of Pennsylvania in his speech on "Violence and the Inner City Poor" last night. "The Code is the organizing principle of street life," Anderson said. It is a set of informal rules that dictate the "do's and don'ts" of inner city life. Anderson has studied the social situations of Philadelphia for 15 years, befriending locals and learning of their way of life by speaking with them. Anderson described "the dichotomy of the community" by classifying inner city families into two groups: "the decent people" and "the street people." The majority of families are decent families, according to Anderson. However, he added, "the street minority who live strictly by The Code controls the vacant spaces and therefore forces all to live by The Code." When one lives by The Code, he said, one must "show people they are street wise" and that they "can handle themselves." 
This situation, he stated, unfortunately "includes an inclination to violence." Most disputes are handled through violence and "many meet aggression with aggression." The most alienated of the street types believe in what Anderson calls "The Plan." The Plan is a conspiracy of groups such as the Korean grocers, the police, and the white community, to annihilate the black community. It strains relations between members of the inner city community and makes many street people angry. "The anger at their situation is pent up "until it surfaces, usually in violence. "We, as a nation, are moving from a manufacturing economy to a service economy," Anderson said. He added that this transition has been difficult for many, especially the street people, who have little or no job training or education. As a result, the underground economy becomes appealing. Many street people turn to selling drugs to make money. Young street people aspire to be like the successful and respected drug dealers they see. They "devote their lives to 

Open Forum for Graduate Women 
Sponsored by the Graduate School 

Wednesday, March 24 and Thursday, March 25 Both sessions to be held between 
4:30 and 6 p.m. at FOG Community Center 

obtaining and maintaining success," Anderson said. They risk their lives in this dangerous profession because many believe that "it is better to die than to let somebody 'diss' you." The decent families, on the other hand, are more aligned with the church and the school 
. system. They belong to "nurturing, extended families" which help to instill in family members a strong set of values and a concrete knowledge of right and wrong, Anderson said. Decent families cannot ignore The Code, however. They must teach their children its survival skills so that they will not be taken advantage of when confronted by street people. Anderson said the decent families have hope in the future, unlike the street people. Parents are strict with their children, but emphasize their love and concern for them, he said. Their concept of death is different from that of the street people, Anderson said. Decent families believe in things like fate and judgement day, he explained. Street people believe "when its over, its over." Anderson said that the attitude of street people explain a lot 
about their way of life. Anderson quoted a street person as saying, "Live for the moment. Tomorrow ain't promised to you." 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Last night the Student Senate discussed whether or not to conduct Senate elections in the two districts where candidates are running uncontested. 
Judicial Coordinator Pete Castelli proposed that the elections be suspended in District 3, North Quad, and District 4, Mod Quad. However, 
Dr. Betty Shabazz 
Widow of Malcolm X 


The Status ofBlacks and Women in Today's Society 
Wednesday, March 24th Stepan Center 7:30 PM Tickets: $3 students/ $5 public At LaFortune info desk or at door 
There will be a 15 minute book signing in the Sorin Room at 6 PM for The 
Autobiography ofMalcolm X and l 
Dream a World. Open reception will follow. 
J.t 
:;LU.Utll.U Survey On cam• 

'""....v ........, 
policies. a stu,dent 

·fee increase and in· stalling cable television in all the hall lobbies; · 
'!'he board feels that of the thre~~ the ~ptivity fee increase iS the most significant and ur· 
. . The proposal ist6 i.O.· crease .the· student activity fee from $20 to $75 per semester. According to. the boa.rd, ..this request is well within the national average in relation to ~imilar sized colleges. · 
Tina Carrara, student body 
president, stressed the illlpor· student feedback on 
these issues. The surveys will · •lo.bbies Th-qrsday; 
. . also prepari!lg fpr anJmalA.ll-Campus 
to.be held April ~: This different from a 
,9ailce ihetause.the can ;decide ·•.. for 

tn«~miS"et·ves whether or.not to 
.Carrara said. The theme for the event is 

page 3 

tickets is limited 

Uncontested senate tickets reconsidered 
Castelli's proposal was rejected after a vote of the Senate. The elections will be held in all districts on March 24. 
Historically, the practice has been to call off the election in such a case, said Castelli. However, several Senate members voiced concern as to the plight of write-in candidates, who would not be able to run if the election was cancelled. 
The Senate also considered nominations for the Irish Clover Award, which will be given at the Student Leadership Banquet on April13. 
"This award is for outstanding service to the student body," said Greg Butrus, outgoing student body president. 
One award is given to a student and another is typically given to a faculty member or administrator, Butrus said. A secret Senate ballet chose the recipients of the Irish Clover. The nominees will be announced shortly before the banquet. 
In other business, Club Coordinator Jennifer Blanchet nominated junior Frank McGehee to take her position next year, and Assistant Treasurer Connor Murphy nominated sophomores Chris Werling and Sally Oelerich to be the assistant treasurers for next year. The nominations were unanimously approved. 
Jason Coyle, outgoing co-chair of HPC, also announced that the new co-chairs for next year would be Jackie Macy of Howard Hall and Chris Canzoniero of Alumni. 

BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m.... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery 
271,1177 
r-------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 
Shuttle launch aborted 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Two main engines ig­nited and space shuttle Columbia was engulfed by the familiar white cloud signaling a launch. Then, with just three seconds to go, the engines shut down. 
Officials in the launch control room gasped. Television view­ers felt a ripple of alarm. But NASA says the seven astro­nauts aboard the German­sponsored laboratory research mission were never in any danger when computers aborted the launch Monday. 
Inside the shuttle, comman­der Steven Nagel knew what had happened because of the red lights that came on in the cockpit. 
Nagel told his crew: "Everything's OK, just sit tight." 
He later told reporters: "There weren't many moments of worry. It's mostly just disappointment." 
The launch was delayed for at least three more weeks ­for a mission initially scheduled for five years ago, but postponed by the 1986 explosion of shuttle Challenger and by lesser problems in the past six weeks. 
SECURITY BEAT 
FRI. MARCH 19 8:28a.m. Notre Dame Security l'8$ilOnded to a poaslble vandalism and theft In Stepan Cheml$tny Hall. &:10 a.m. Notre Dame Security replaced a broken gate ann in the B01 lot. 
5:41 p.m. ANotre Dame student reported that his vehicle was damaged while It was par1<ed In the 002 parking lot. 
8:311 p.m. Notre Dame Security re· eponded to an Injury of a Mishawaka resident at the JACC. 
11:42 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of hi$ jacket from the South Dining Hall. 
SAT. MARCH 20 
2:1oa.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a case of an Illinois resident being Intoxicated In Breen-Phillips Hall. The victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
2:55 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a case of vandalism In the Architecture Building. 
7:05 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a suspicious person report In Pasquerllfa Hall West. 
8:41 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported that his vehicle had been broken Into while It Wa& parked In the 002 pariling lot. 
1:14 p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of his vehicle's license plate while the vehicle was parked in the C01 perking lot. 
7:311 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to an Injured student in the lobby of Lewis Hall. The victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
8:34 p.m. A Notre Dame student was etopped for Improper lane change on Douglas Road. Upon discovery of alcohol In the vehicle, the suspect was also charged with Minor Transporting Alcohol. 
11:27 p.m. A University employee reported a case of vandalism to her vehicle while it was parked on the west sk:le of the Rockne Memorial. 
SUN. MARCH 21 
9:311 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a case of vandalism 1o the vending machines In Flenner Hall. 
12:37 a.m. AMorrissey Hall resident reported the theft of hi$ jacket from the basement of the South Dining Hall. 
12:15 p.m. AUniversity employee reported the theft of a license plate from a unfvel'8ity vehicle while It was parked outside the JACC. 
1:11 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft ol his wallet from his unlocked 
donn room. 
4:55 p.m. Notre Dame Security re· sponded to an Injured Alumni Hall res· ldent. The victim was transported by ambulance to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
11:26 p.m. Notre Dame Security stopped an Alumni Hall resident on Lake road for epeedlng. 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
members of the SUB board will go on a training retreat. 
Other SUB programs on Zahren's agenda include the planning of cultural events that will interest the student body, a recruitment party at the end of April, and a fundraiser to replace The Shirt, which is no longer a SUB project. 
Working under Keckler in the Marketing Department are Jimmy Sperduto, marketing research coordinator, Accounting Executives Jean Hazard, Kerry McArdle, and Jonathan Novak. 
Working on the Relations Committee under Haskins are Lisa Dvorachek, internal relations coordinator, Julia Murphy, external relations manager, and Office Manger Mandy Henry. 
On the Programming Committee under Liang are commissioners Emily Bloss, campus entertainment, Julie Audretch, cultural arts, Bridget Conley, Ideas and Issues, Hoa Quach, movies, Bethany Riddle, music, and Stasia Mosesso, special events. 
Working under Controller Jamie Morris are Luis Torres, Sue Castellani, Clayton Scheetz, and Mike Murray. 
The Observer 

Racism 
continued from page 1 
liott and her family has suffered harassment and pain. Yet she denied that it takes a lot of courage to do what she did. 
"It takes courage to be a per­son of color in this country," she said. 
Mari Fuentes, assistant direc­tor for the Office of Minority Af­fairs at Notre Dame, said she learned of Elliott's experiment that aired on an Oprah Winfrey. 
"All the brown-eyed members of the audience were herded into a lobby and served coffee and donuts, treated very nicely." Fuentes recalled. "Meanwhile, everyone with blue 
Run-off 
continued from page 1 
night and we will continue to 
eyes was led to a square window with no window, served no refreshments and treated very rudely." 
When asked how the different groups were treated, the audience responded with fer­vent reactions. "Reactions cov­ered the entire spectrum, from pain to anger to understand­ing," said Fuentes. 
"For people of color, this is a daily occurrence in their lives," Fuentes added. "Many people were offended, saying, 'I'm not a racist. I shouldn't be treated this way."' 
Because the show elicited such a crowd reaction, Fuentes' office, in collaboration with the Multi-Cultural Executive Coun­cil, decided to sponsor Elliott 
hold open forums in the dorms," she said. 
"We were surprised. Appar­ently the turnout for the other girls was better,"said Whisler. Similar feelings were voiced by 
An alternative procedure out­lined by Delevan suggested that 
CLC 
specific students should be in­
continued from page 1 vited to apply to the J-Board Chair and these applicants
students "can choose their own would be selected by the hall
J-Board members" because presidents, the outgoing J­
"students themselves know who Board Chair and the hall rector.
would be fair and who would The new J-Board Chair and thenot be." 
rector would then select the 
Tuesday, March 23, 1992 
for an appearance at Notre Dame. 
The Minority Affairs office invited all dorm rectors, several department heads, and professors to experience the workshop in hopes that people will "leave more informed, en­lightened and educated about discrimination." 
While all in attendance ap­peared moved by Elliott's per­formance, some would have liked to experience the "Blue Eyes, Brown Eyes" experiment firsthand. 
"I would have liked to see the actual workshop," junior Torya Tynes said. "The most effective way to combat racism is to place yourself in a situation and actually feel it." 
Whisler's secretarial candidate, Beth Regan. 
"We were disappointed but we hope that we can be active in the decisions made for the class of 1996," said Regan. 
remaining members of the J­Board committee. 
A finalized proposal for Dulac revisions will be written and submitted to the Office of Stu­dent Affairs by April 1. The Campus Life Council will meet next Monday to add to their recommendations for the J­Board issue. 

The Academic Honor Code 
We Need Your Help! 
The Honor Code at Notre Dame works for the students, and the Honor Code Committee needs your help to make it better suit our needs next year. If you are interested in helping in any of the following areas next year, please fill out th~ following application. 
• 
Liaison Between Faculty and Students 

• 
Freshman Orientation Weekend 

• 
Transfer Student Orientation 

• 
Dorm Representative 

• 
College Representative 


University of Notre Dame 
Honor Code Committee student application Section 1. 
Please return your completed application to the new chairpersons: 
Kami Benson  418 Knott Hall x4704  
Kevin Schroeder  811 Grace Hall x1750  
Section 2.  
Name:  

Birthplace:_________ 
Dorm: College:_________ Class: 
Section 3. 

Age:_____ Sex: Phone: 
Major:____ 
Why do you want to be on the Honor Code Committee; what do you feel you have to offer it? (please attach a typed sheet, no more than the front of one page) 
-----~ 

Tuesday, March 23, The Observer page 5 · 
Bishop offers hope to women 

BY ANNIE VENESKV 
News Writer 
The role of women in the Roman Catholic Church was the topic of "A Spring of Hope after the Long Winter of the Pastoral on Women," given by Auxiliary Bishop Francis Murphy of Baltimore, Maryland, last night. 
5Murphy outlined his plan for planting "the seeds of hope and promise" in light of the current pastoral letter on women that prevents women from being ordained as priests. 
"How to achieve full participation of women in the Roman Catholic Church is a question that needs to be studied, wrestled with, and debated, especially by students," stated Murphy. 
In presenting his plan to alleviate the injustices toward women by the patriarchical church, Murphy strongly advocated dialogue characterized by "an openness for listening." and "an enrichment of one's own perspective, and perhaps the alteration of one's truth." 
dialogue as "not to persuade, but instead to engage in profound listening, and to incorporate the insights of contemporary scholarship into the debate." 
According to Murphy, scholars knowledgeable in different areas of theology were not invited to the pastoral on women, thus trivializing the issue. 
He said the incorporation of scholarly insight into an open dialogue is the best way to deal with issues such as ordination, inclusive language, and the attitude of parents. 
Murphy also addressed the importance of the methodology of the dialogue concerning women's issues. Students and bishops should proceed in a manner that reflects not a teacher-student paradigm, but in a more interactive manner, according to Murphy. 
"To sponsor reflective dialogue, we must be both the student and the teacher," said Murphy. The respective bishops from each of the dioceses must share among themselves and decide on the next step on the long journey into the spring," 

Murphy said that dialogue should first address the "ideology of male superiority that permeates the history of the church, including the attitudes, language, laws assumptions, patterns, structures, and organization." 
He said that it is this ideology that has affected women, men, as well as the community as a whole. He added that the dialogue should further discern the issue of ordination through studies of new data from the Bible and of historical tradition. 
Study is needed, he stated, to find out why "women can image Christ in baptism and not in Holy Orders." 
In closing, Murphy challenged the audience to "address the concerns of women and create a new kind of church for those yet to be born." 
Murphy was ordained a bishop in 1976 He was a participant in the National Conference of Catholic Bishops of Catholic Women in the Church and Society in 1978, and has been distinguished with many awards for his work concerning the role of women in 
He emphasized the goal of 
he added. the Roman Catholic Church. 


O'MALLEY AWARD 
7993 UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER OF THE YEAR AWARD 
• I·r?

what IS . 
Each year a committee of students represent­ing all years and majors decide which under­graduate prof has best dedicated his/her time and effort to classroom teaching. The chosen prof wins an award of $1 000. 
can students nominate the profs? 
YESI Forms for nominating your favorite and most deserving profs will be available in the Student Government Offic~ 2nd floor of Lafortune starting Fri. March 19. They will be due by Wed. March 31 . 
Any questions call Megan at 271-8888. 
• Assa r:;;~... orNo'f; 
s-~@~~-~~-~ ~ •
:::J ~(
;:( g ~ {I
~G~ 
sponsored by Student Government and The Alumni Association 
Hit-and-run accident investigated 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Investigation into Saturday's hit-and-run accident continues, but no charges have been filed yet, according to Sgt. Charlie Farrell of the St. Joseph County police department. 
James Irwin was involved in a vehicle pedestrian accident at 
2:59 a.m., March 20. The car which struck Irwin is owned by Melinda Ross. a Saint Mary's senior of Campus View Apartments, said Farrell. 
Irwin was walking northbound on the shoulder of Ivy Rd., north of Edison Rd. when the vehicle which was traveling northbound struck him. the police report said. 
After the car hit him, it continued northbound on Ivy Rd. the report said. 
Two witnesses who were walking with Irwin got the licence plate number of the vehicle, but neither of them got a look at the driver, said Farrell. 
Farrell said that Ross had little information about the incident. 
No arrests have been made in connection with the incident, but Farrell said that the department has some strong leads. 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 


~--------­

pageo 1 ne uoserver 1uesaay, Marcn ~::i, 1~~::i 
Yeltsin·reminded to stick to democracy 
CHICAGO (AP) -The Clinton administration reminded Boris Yeltsin Monday that the U.S. support and pledges of financial aid extended during his power struggle depend on his adherence to democratic principles and free-market reforms. 
Despite the cautionary note, voiced by Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher in a speech here and by other officials in Washington, there was no evidence that administration support for Yeltsin was Ragging. 
Christopher called Yeltsin "the one person in that country who has the support of the Russian people." And, he said, "we believe President Yeltsin has chosen a responsible course" in calling for a referendum April 25 on a conversion to democracy and private property after seven decades of Communist rule. 
But Christopher's remarks in behalf of Yeltsin were carefully tempered. His speech and responses to questions from Chicago academics, business executives and others interested in foreign policy did not add up to a blank-check endorsement. 
Meanwhile, President Clinton and aides said plans were proceeding for the U.S>Russia summit April 3-4 in Vancouver, Canada. 
Clinton. asked in Uttle Rock, Ark., if he would consider moving the summit to Moscow to spare Yeltsin from leaving at 
a. crucial time, replied there were "no plans to change the site at this time." 
At the White House, spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said Clinton would consider a change in site only if Yeltsin asked -which he hasn't. 
Christopher laid emphasis not on Yeltsin, the man, but on the programs be was fostering. U.S. support, Christopher suggested, went beyond any single leader. 
"Our engagement with the reformers must be for the long haul -when they're 'out' as well as when they're 'in/ when they're 'down' as well as when they're 'up,"' he said. 
"However difficult things may be in the short run, we should have faith that the strategic course we. have set ­supporting democracy's triumph -is the correct one." 
The White House, meanwhile, suggested it could deal with "other reformers" in Russia · Yeltsin faltered. 

MOSCOW (AP) -Russia's standing legislature took the first step Sunday toward impeaching President Boris Yeltsin, while outside thousands of protesters gathered to jeer or cheer the president. 
A day after Yeltsin declared emergency rule in an effort to sidestep legislative opponents of his economic reforms, the Supreme Soviet's action ap­peared to cement a stalemate. Yeltsin's chief legal adviser, Sergei Shakhrai, said earlier that the president would not step down if impeached. 
The Supreme Soviet also moved to have Yeltsin's top aides investigated for usurping power. 
Inside the parliament build­ing, known as the "White House," a parade of hard-line lawmakers denounced Yeltsin, but the atmosphere was gen­erally orderly. 
Outside, a heavy police con• tingent, with more than 100 jeeps and bus loads of militia­men in reserve, kept apart the two groups of placard-waving demonstrators. 
No violence was reported, and the crowds dispersed Sunday night. 
The crowds listened to the legislature's debate over loud­speakers, and the pro-Com­munist side cheered as the Supreme Soviet voted 125-16 to ask Russia's Constitutional 
PARIS (AP) -With the left in tatters after a devastating loss in parliamentary elections, conservatives began laying the groundwork Monday for isolating Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. 
Mitterrand kept a public silence, playing a weekly round of golf as politicians and press picked over the results of Sunday's first-round vote and pronounced the end of an era. 
Hight-wing leaders urged Mitterrand to resign early, promising their parliamentary coalition would tolerate no interference with their programs. But the conservatives are not united on all issues, which might give Mitterrand an opening to exploit their differences. 
Conservatives want to sell ofT state-owned industries. They promise to trim a $40 billion budget deficit and reduce the 
10.5 percent unemployment rate, but they have disclosed few details of their program. 
After run-off elections in a week, France likely will have its most conservative government since the Fifth Republic was founded in 1958. 
Computer projections point to the conservatives winning up to 480 of the National Assembly's 577 seats, ruling out any effective opposition in parliament. Mitterrand has no American-style veto and has little choice but to pick the prime minister and Cabinet from the majority's ranks. 
Mitterrand, 76, and suffering from prostate cancer, could spend the last two years of his 
SCHYLEEN QUALLS 
IS THE LAST WORD! 
Wednesday, March 24 
7:00p.m. 
Carroll Auditorium 
"THE LAST WORD" is a thought provoking dramatization of African-American poetry and prose. 
"Schyleen Qualls: A treasure. a flower, a trump. a hum-dinger of a word slinger, a corker of a talker, a heller of a storyteller. dawn's first light. and a downright delight." KEN KESEY 
Author. "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' 
SPONSORED BY MINT OFFICE SAB 
Join us for a "VIBRANT. EXCITING, & ENERGETIC Performance 

Yeltsin faces possible impeachment 

Court to review Yeltsin's decla­ration of emergency rule. 
If the court finds that Yeltsin violated the Constitution, he could be impeached by the full parliament, the Congress of People's Deputies. 
Defense Minister Pavel Grachev called for a compro­mise in the fight over dividing up governmental powers and promised the army would stay out of the dispute. But he warned that "tempers are running high" in some units, especially in the Moscow Mili­tary District. 
"Any attempt to split the army forces could lead to bloodshed," Grachev said at the emergency session of the legislature, which is dominated by Communists elected before the Soviet Union collapsed. 
Yeltsin's chief rival, parlia­ment speaker Ruslan Khasbu­latpv, accused the president of leading the nation toward civil war. He called Yeltsin's speech 
Socialists face rightists• second onslaught 
seven-year term facing a hostile government that will seek to reduce him to a figurehead despite the broad powers given him by the French Constitution. 
Jacques Chirac, the conservative Paris mayor and front-runner for the 1995 presidential race, has said a rightist government will not give Mitterrand free rein on foreign and defense affairs, as tradition and the constitution ambiguously dictates. 
"It's a bad defeat," said Pierre Mauroy, a Socialist ex-premier whose former district in Lille, held by the left for 66 years, looks in danger of falling to the conservatives. 
"an attempt to usurp power veiled by rhetoric about fighting the Communist hydra." 
"Playing the Communist card is a straight path toward breaking up society and civil war," Khasbulatov said. 
More Western governments offered support for the Russian leader, echoing President Clinton's statement Saturday that Yeltsin appeared the best hope for reform. 
Yeltsin did not attend the session. Government officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the president's mother had died over the weekend in the Siberian city of Yekaterinburg. 
As long as the army and police stay neutral, neither Yeltsin nor the parliament appear able to enforce their decisions. 
The result could be a chaotic period of what Russians call "dual power," in which two competing authorities claim to run the country and annul each other's decisions. 
About 5,000 anti-Yeltsin protesters waved Soviet flags and sang revolutionary songs outside the White House ­where Yeltsin had stood on a tank in August 1991 to rally democratic forces against a failed coup by hard-liners. 
No tanks were sighted Sunday, but the pro-Communist protesters called Yeltsin's dec­laration a "putsch." 
Mendoza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N.' 1 mile North of Saint Mary's 
272-7510 

MORRISSEY MANOR 
FILM FESTIVAL 


Friday, March 26, 9 p.m. Stepan Center 
See you at the movies! 
~~ ~ ------~----------~--~ ---~ -­
Business 
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 page 7 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 


Coca-Cola expands production in Poland 
• ATLANTA· The Coca-Cola Company bas opened two soft-drink production operations in Poland. It. dedicated on Safilrday a $30 million Warsaw Coca-Coca Bottlers Ltd. plant, a joint venture with Rignes, a Norwegian bottler. It also announced the opening of a wholly owned $21 million production plant in Radzymin, out~ide Warsaw. Both plants will produce Coke, Sprite, and Fanta; · 
Peabo~ coal strike negotiations begin again 
• WAS fNGTON-Negotiators for the United Mine Workers and the coal industry start work toward a new contract on Tuesday, nearly six months after both sides first said they were ready to begin. The formal start of talks. was announced Oct•. 2, but the parties quickly became. ~mbroiled in a dispute .that precluded any progfess toward replacement of a contract that expired Feb. 1. The dispute led to a month-long strike by as many as 7,500 union members employed by subsidiaries of Peabody Holding Co. of St. Louis, the nation's large$t coal proouce,r, UMW President Richard Trumka has made it plain that job security is the union's key issue. UMW membership has dwindled as coal companies have increased automation or switched to non·union labor to cut costs, 
Russian unrest worries world financial market§ 
• NEW YORK-The dollar staged a tentative advance against major European currencies Monday amid mounting unease about the future of Russian President Boris Yeltsin. The lackluster advance, however, underscored the weakness of the dollar, which has failed to break out of its· current trading range against the German mark despite lower German interest rates and Russian unrest. On Monday, Yeltsin stood firm against hard-liners' efforts to impeach him and asserted control over the Russian media to safeguard news organizations from a takeove.: by hisfo~s. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court convened to weigh the legality of a decree by Yeltsin declaring emergency rule. The unrest shook confidence in nearby economies, hurti:ng European equit)', and bond markets and casting a pall over therr currency markets, ' 
FDA head wants stricter seafood inspections . 

• WASHINGTON-The head of the Food and Drug Administration said Monday he wants boat-to-table array ol seafood inspeotion safeguards against :food poisoning. Dr. David Kessler didn't predict when it would happen,but said his agency bad the power to develop the new standards without new laws, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., questioned whether that was so. Overall. the U.S. food safety system is "piecemeal" and outdated, Kessler said in a speech at a food policy conference. Processing plants ar~ inspected as infrequently as once in several years, and the system should be replaced by one involving hazard analysis at several critical points in the processing chain, he said. Kessler s~id industries would have day-to-day responsibility for ~e. program, with government oversight. And the· seafood industry could be a prototype, he said. 
Fed to hold interest rates 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Fed­eral Reserve policy-makers meeting behind closed doors probably will seek to hold in­terest rates steady while they wait to see how President Clin­ton's proposals affect the econ­omy, analysts said Monday. 
Officials gathered Tuesday for the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee will have a number of conflicting factors to sort out before decid­ing on the course of monetary policy over the next six weeks. 
"I think they'll just be happy to remain in a holding pattern," said economist David Jones of Aubrey Lanston & Co., a government securities trader in New York. 
Recent government price re­ports show a pickup in inflation during the first two months of this year. During January and February, the so-called "core" rate of inflation -consumer prices less the volatile food and energy sectors -climbed at better than a 6 percent annual rate. That's double the 2.9 per­cent rate for all of last year. 
That would argue for an in­crease in short-term interest rates, to dampen demand and keep price pressures down. 
Over the past two weeks, two 

Air traffic controllers debate continues 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Air traffic controllers fired in 1981 after they went on strike should be given a chance to get their old jobs back, a former head of the Federal Aviation Adminis­tration said Monday. 
But Langhorne Bond, who headed the agency under President Carter, warned that rehiring the workers will not be cheap. 
He said if the Clinton adminis­tration lifts a hiring ban on the fired workers, their pensions could be in the millions of dol­lars. He proposed tightening pension rules to require that any controller who is taken 
Job stress is world-wide epidemic 
WASHINGTON (AP) -If it's getting harder to go to work, there may be good reason. The U.N.'s International Labor Or­ganization says job stress is in­creasing to the point of a worldwide epidemic affecting some of the most ordinary jobs. 
Waitresses in Sweden, teach­ers in Japan, postal workers in America, bus drivers in Europe and assembly line workers ev­erywhere are all showing in­creasing signs of job stress, an ILO report said Monday. 
Pressure to keep up with ma­chines, no say about the job and low pay for long hours have left millions of workers burned out, accident-prone or sick, the report says. And frequently now workers must cope with the growing practice of supervisors electronically monitoring performance by computer. 
"We now know that stress is a global phenomenon," said ILO job stress expert Vittorio Di Martino in an interview. "We thought in the past that it hit mostly white collar workers in the industrialized countries. It's time to put that myth to rest." 
The report, "Job Stress: The 20th Century Disease," points to growing evidence of problems around the world, including developing countries, where, it says, companies are doing little to help employees cope with the strain of modern industrialization. 
The international organiza­tion estimates the cost of job stress in the United States alone at $200 billion annually from compensation claims, reduced productivity, absenteeism, added health insurance costs and direct medical expenses for related diseases such as ulcers, high blood pressure and heart attack. 
Stress-related injury claims on the job have climbed from 5 percent of all occupational dis­ease claims in 1980 to 15 per­cent a decade later, the report says. 
Work pressure is so intense in Japan that the Japanese have coined a phrase for death by overwork: Karoshi. A survey cited in the report says 40 percent of all Japanese workers fear they literally will work themselves to death. 
Major factors in the stressful nature of a job are not only the demands of the work itself but the lack of control many worker have over their jobs, said Di Martino said. 
"Blue collar workers face high demand but very little control and little autonomy in the way they can cope with the pressure," he said. 

As the use of computers spreads throughout the world, workers in many countries are being subjected to new pres­sures, including electronic evesdropping by superiors, the report says. 
In airline offices, government agencies, insurance ,companies, mail-order houses and telephone companies, workers find themselves constantly checked by employers who can monitor everything from how quickly they perform a task to the frequency and length of breaks. 
"This may be reassuring for the employer but not for the worker," the report says. 
The ILO report cites instances in the United States, Mexico, Japan, Canada, India and Swe­den where companies have taken steps to reduce stress on their employees. 
The most successful, it says. are those that are willing to help employees deal with stress and "re-engineer the workplace lo make it better suited to human aptitudes and aspira­
tions." 
President Clinton 

members of the Federal Re­serve Board -Lawrence Lind­sey and Wayne Angell -have delivered speeches warning of inflationary pressures. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, however, last week noted that wage increases have been low and dismissed this year's price reports as aberra­tions, at least so far. 
But economists anticipate that Clinton's program, after pro­viding the economy with an initial boost, will start to pinch growth with higher taxes and a reduced budget deficit. That argues for keeping rates low to stimulate economic growth by encouraging borrowing and spending by businesses and consumers. 
back must work at least six years to qualify for retirement pay. 
As FAA head under Carter, Bond devised plans for dealing with a controllers strike that the Reagan administration im­plemented. 
On Monday, Bond told a meeting of the Air Traffic Con­trol Association the strike "was an unmitigated disaster for or­ganized labor. Overnight the weapon of the strike was de­stroyed." But he said it is time to forgive and forget. 
Strikers "have been out of work for 12 years," he said. "I say that is enough. The pun­
"The Clinton plan will be a drag on the economy. ... If the Fed were to raise interest rates now, they may just have to lower them in a year," said economist Paul Getman of Re­gional Financial Associates in West Chester, Pa. 
Tuesday's Federal Open Market Committee meeting is taking place against an unusu­ally tense political backdrop. 
Greenspan has voiced strong support for the president's program in testimony to Congress. Also, in what was taken as an important symbolic gesture, he sat next to First Lady Hillary Clinton during the president's economic address to Congress last month. 
By holding out the prospect that rates will stay low, Greenspan is trying to entice the administration and Congress to follow through on Clinton's deficit-cutting plan. 
But as head of an indepen­dent central bank, Greenspan must walk a fine line and not appear too beholden to the ad­ministration, says Jones. Otherwise, he may have to prove his independence from the White House by raising rates sooner than he would like, he added. 
ishment now fits the crime." 
The Clinton administration has said it may lift the ban on the fired controllers. The Na­tional Air Traffic Controllers Association, the union that rep­resents controllers, estimates more than 3,000 of the 11,400 fired workers would like to re­turn. 
Only a small number of con­trollers are hired each year, and the frred workers would have to compete with them if President Clinton lifts the ban. But Bond said there are some facilities where the pressure is particularly great, and they are chronically understaffed. 
lobal unemployment at" ~f'IUQ~eltlill9 high·.• 
GENEVA (AP)-· The the agency said in its annual United States and milch of World Labor Report. Eu-t:()J)e ate $till str!JKgling i ·. "OveralL unmpploymept has With re~ession, an.d only riseny(;)t again." /. ···•.··· Asia has a healthy outlook The United States, Japan for growth in jobs. ·!l U.N.' and some European cqJID· 
ysaid j!l~sq~y, ··\ tries J:J!~ot:ted all incr~~sed ica (fl;ces the worst .. number of jobs in 1992,but problems. With unemploy· those gains were offset.by mep~ rates ln ~ts citle$ ~f lq subst · tial job losse.s in pe~cent 1,o 20 percent; the.·. ·· .. Ge . · y. Britain, Spain; International Labor Organi.. Switzerland and Scandi• 
zation·said. n estim(tted 14 navia,t.bereportsaid.· .· .· 

ionAfricans are out of The 24 wealthiest coun­·. arid ··their raub··. ·tries,which· iQ.ake· up .the·· 
h .. heeri ing about 10 Orga11ization of EeonoiQ.ic 
pe:rt:enta yearrecently. Cooperation and Develop­
~atin America ha~ Jll.ade ment. reported a total.of sq,tn~ pJ;pg.res~ from. its se-32,3 ·million people opt of vere .economic problems of work. That was an overall 
the mid•1980s. the report unemployment rate of8.2 
sai~. Inflation bas drppp~;~d, percent. up from 7.4 per~ent 
ecc;hornies are grow~(f and in 1991. 
investors areret'urning, hut The story is djfferent for 
unemployment remains the developing nations of 
"stubb. ornly b.• igh," ~taround Asia. Their overall economic 
8percen.t,itsaid. •.. · . . .·.....·· )W growth was 5.8 pereentil), 
Even the Arab states. no 1991. compared with 2.1 longer cushioned by high oil percent for aU developing pri~.>es, "are suffering frorri a countries. the report said, .severe slol'Yp9wn/' th~ re• · citingChinaf.Malaysia a,q,d
portsaid, · · · · ·· Thaila:nq. as ·having the The world's richest .coun-fastest growing economies in tr~~~ ~are U\ting a long tiJ:ne t~>"'liinerge from· reces~ion.~ 

---~-------------------------~--­
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, March 23, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE; 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor..••••..•Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..•.Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ..••.•Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager .••••.Steph Goldman Sports Editor ••••••••••.George Dohrmann Production Manager .....•.••••Kathy Fang Accent Edltor .••••.•.•.•.•...Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ••••••.••....Patrick Barth Photo Editor ••.••.•..•....•.•....•.Jake Peters OTS Director..•........•••••.Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ..••Jennifer Habrych Controller •••••••••••.•••..........Mark Meenan 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space Is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leUers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Moral vision should consider other issues 

In 1950-51, this jabberwocky lived in Lyons, evading the Ko­rean war by running strings of 95s or better in organic chem­istry and physics. Instead of becoming a medical orderly in a MASH, I sat out the war in bull sessions with the Brennan twins, Frank and Marty, sons of an officer in the United Mine Workers, and two young Re­publicans, a pre-law student. The Brennan brothers' defense · of Union labor blew us away. Fifty pereent of the Republicans in the discussion understood what was happening. A good average. 
The cause of union labor is more relevant to the Catholic character of Notre Dame than doubts about the evolutionary foundations of the human sciences, or repressive gospels of sexual voyeurism. 
"The laborer is worthy of his hire." There is dignity and re­demptive significance in labor not found in the accumulation of capital at interest. A century of Papal teaching makes clear that workers should organize to balance, to humanize, to re­deem, if possible, the dead hand of property. Otherwise things saddle up and ride humanity in markets dominated by capital intensive multinationals. 
Many Catholic Churches are 

Ed Manier 
A Left Jab 
much like religious country clubs. The ratio of sermons on sexual morality to those on so­cial justice and the dignity of union labor is about 999 to 1. Give me the "urchin's Mass," inaugurated by a really distin­guished Observer columnist, any day. 
In a 1986 letter to the Presi­dent whose election he did not live to see, Roman Catholic Democratic Socialist Michael Harrington took his shot at prophecy. 

50 IF l1:V SUPPOJ<T 
IU(j()7EU­
M&, I£T Y(}(Jf< ReP­P.ES6NTATIV£.$ !<JVOW.I 
Ya.JI< :£CRET §[!RYIC£A61iN!5,
7l3U. THeM rrs OKAy 7{) MAl<& 5/t<-' I 50M8HARP CHO/C£5.1 
/ 

"What is needed in the late twentieth century...is a restatement of the basic moral vision of the Western Left. For there is a sense in which Reaganomics is already in crisis -that its success (in 1986) is a crisis. For growth has brought persistent poverty unemployment, homelessness, and hunger -and that has never happened before. 
"The booby traps of the American economy will, I am convinced, explode sooner or later. But the next Left cannot content itself to sit around waiting for some catastrophe to save it from its own political impotence. If that next Left understands itself as a movement of genuine moral vi­
-sion, it can begin now, in the midst of a misshapen and outrageous "prosperity," to assemble the forces and de­velop the ideas of a new Amer­ica in a new world." The Next Left, H. Holt. 
The moral vision concerning which Harrington sought to build consensus was one which would energize the most ex­ploited and potentially the most dynamic people in society, women and minorities. It was one which would unite those in secure and those in precarious occupations, the young and the old, cultural modernists and cultural traditionalists. It was not the "moderate Democratic" nco-Republican agenda associ­ated with old Domer, Bruce Babbitt. 
Its first plank was full em­ployment, to be pursued in solidarity by workers knowing that current high rates of unemployment and marginal underemployment degrade all workers, isolating and terroriz­ing their families. 
Michael Harrington's stu­dents, even those who "only" wanted to get into law school, saw that if every boomer and every boomer's baby pursued the individualist "taker-centric" path previously trod by a small minority of the "economic elite," the result would be pathological: the deterioration of both structure and infras­tructure (schools, jails, juvenile detention centers, bridges, ev­ery form of social investment) while barring the gates dividing the "haves" and the "have nots." He insisted on stating the problem of global economic re­covery in moral terms, a "commitment to the essential oneness of humanity," to poli­cies not requiring the further deterioration of life for workers and the poor in developed countries in the name of "an in­ternationalism that is really a facade for the self-interest of multinational corporations." 
The prophet Michael saw in 1986 what current scholarship 
(P. Kennedy, Preparing for the 1\venty first Century, Barry and Irving Bluestone, Negotiating the Future: a labor perspective on American Business) empha­sizes. Taker-centric economic imperialism tears the social fabric to shreds. "Imaginative new ways must be found to en­able workers to participate democratically in decisions af­fecting the nature of their work." Wouldn't it be strange if we tried that here? 
Ed Manier is a professor of 

BY GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
UM... f(}f< peJB'S
8RWN­
UJH£3Rt 5AKe,?ONI<.,
tes... ?
ARE 7H£1?£'5 PleNTY. 
men NO! YaJMAao 
OOZENS.""

I \ '" 
"I was gratified to be able to answer promptly, and I did. I said I didn't know." 
Mark Twain 

Don't youknow?Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
---· -~-~----~~~~-~ --------.,I
~­

-------·----~~------~··­

----------~·----------­
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 
With all the ink recently about the Catholic character of Notre Dame, has anybody seen any real discussion of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities? That document, in the development of which Fr. Malloy had a prominent role, was described by Pope John Paul II as "a sort of magna carta" for Catholic universities. 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae declared that "every Catholic university, as Catholic, must have the following essential charac­teristics: 
"1. A Christian inspiration not only of individuals but of the university community as such. 
"2. A continuing reflection in the light of the Catholic faith upon the growing treasury of human knowledge, to which it seeks to contribute by its own research. 
"3. Fidelity to the Christian message as it comes to us through the church. 
"4. An institutional commit­ment to the service of the people of God and of the human family in their pilgrimage to the transcendent goal which gives meaning to life." 
The document affirms that the Catholic University "possesses that institutional autonomy necessary to perform its functions effectively and guarantees its members academic freedom, so long as the rights of the individual per­son and of the community are preserved within the confines of the truth and the common good." However, as noted above, it also requires "[tlidelity to the Christian message as it comes to us through the church." 
Maybe nobody wants to talk 
about Ex Corde Ecclesiae 
because it could lead to discus­
sion of the relation between 
LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
Charles E. Rice 
Right or Wrong 
Notre Dame and the teaching authority of the Church. That document specifies that "one consequence of its essential relationship to the church is that the institutional fidelity of the university to the Christian message includes a recognition of and adherence to the teach­ing authority of the church in matters of faith and morals." 
That language evokes an image of the Catholic university system before it was handed over to lay control in 1967. Current problems require current solutions. But maybe reflection on that older system in light of Ex Corde Ecclesiae could offer some guidance for our situation today. 
"The Notre Dame that I attended and loved in 1942-43," wrote John J. Shea, M.D. last year, "would have given [Senator Daniel P. Moynihan) a lecture on aiding and abetting the sins of others and not the Laetare Medal. That Notre Dame was content to be a very Catholic college, with strict rules, a godly faculty and stu­dent body, and the wonder and admiration of the world." Allow for hyperbole and nostalgia and yet that statement has the ring of truth. 
The primary historical mission of Notre Dame before 1967 had been primarily the education of undergraduates in the Catholic tradition, with re­search and graduate studies playing an important but bal­anced role in the overall mis­sion of the University. Notre Dame had its own identity, as the Jesuit universities had theirs based on the Ratio Stu­diorum of St. Ignatius. What those universities did, they did well. 

1 
I 
I 
Viewpoint 
page 9 

C Un1vers1 system died at the hands of its custodians. Officials of the leading Catholic universities met at the Notre Dame retreat at Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin, in 196 7 and declared that: 
"To perform its teaching and research functions effectively, the Catholic university must have a true autonomy and academic freedom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or clerical, external to the aca­demic community itself." 
Most Catholic universities in this country, including Notre Dame (which had been controlled by the Congregation of Holy Cross), severed their juridical connection with the Church by transferring control to lay-dominated boards of trustees. One Jesuit educator recently described that action of the universities as "the largest voluntary alienation of Church property in history." 
"The Land O'Lakes Confer­ence," wrote Fr. George Rutler, "was to Catholic universities what the Yalta Conference was to Eastern Europe." Rutler, Newman and Land O'Lakes, Homiletic and Pastoral Review, 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to respond to the letter of Brian Uetz (Observer, March 17) concern­ing the absence of meat in the dining halls on Fridays during Lent. 
Mr. Uetz asserts that "if you are supposed to sacrifice by not eating meat, but you really don't have any chance to eat meat, then it isn't a sacrifice." It seems, then, that our "sacrifice" depends on a rela­tively high degree of tempta­tion. 
We support Mr. Uetz's con­clusion, and propose the follow­ing to ensure that we are tempted to a sufficient degree: 
was aftermath of the influential 1966 decision in Horace Mann League v. Board of Public Works, in which the highest court of Maryland held uncon­stitutional grants by the state legislature to three colleges be­cause the schools were too reli­gious in their orientation. 
Rev. Leo McLaughlin, S.J., then President of Fordham University, said in 1967 of that decision, "the choice offered to Catholic institutions is going to be quite clear: changes will have to be made within the structure of the Catholic institu­tions which will make them eli­gible for federal and state aid or many of them will have to close their doors." Later court deci­sions, incidentally, have shown that constitutional restrictions on government funding of some activities of church-related universities are not nearly as severe as Fr. McLaughlin and some others anticipated. 
The pre-1967 Catholic universities were not afraid to maintain a formal, juridical connection with the Church. Ex Corde Ecclesiae neither re­quires nor forbids such a con-
That the dining halls prepare meat entrees on Fridays during Lent, that these meat entrees be even better prepared and more scrumptious than usual, and that they be presented in a particularly tantalizing fashion. 
For example, the dining halls might offer prime rib, delicately prepared, sliced at each table, and offered to each student in turn, taking care that subtle aromas adequately reach each student's nose. Only then will our Lenten program of "sacrifice" truly be meaningful. 
Timothy Culver Thomas Nevins St. Edward's Hall March 17, 1993 

Cardinal Newman as Fr. Rutler notes, "insisted that the Catholicity of a university is secured by more than teaching theology as a branch of knowl­edge: 'hence a direct and active jurisdiction of the Church over it and in it is necessary lest it should become the rival of the Church with the community at large in those theological mat­ters which to the Church are exclusively committed -acting as the representative of the in­tellect, as the Church is the representative of the religious principle.'" It could be useful to reconsider the desirability of such a connection in light of the general principles of Ex Corde Ecclesiae. 
In any event, it would seem clear that any university which claims to be Catholic, especially in raising money, ought to acknowledge the Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities as its criterion for the meaning of the term, "Catholic university." 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column usually appears every other Monday. 
Notre Dame Press supports Hispanic groups 
Dear Editor: 
I appreciate Ken Motolenich­
-
Salas's assessment of the prob­
lems facing Hispanics at Notre 
Dame. But I'm not certain the 
community is guilty of the apa­
thy he claims. For decades, 
Notre Dame has been a major 
presence in Hispanic-American 
studies. 
The Notre Dame Press is 
known as a major publisher of 
works on the achievements, 
problems and promises of Latin 
American, Mexican-American 
and Puerto Rican cultures. The 
commitment of the Press in 
these areas is ongoing and in­
cludes important works by 
Notre Dame faculty, and schol­
ars at the Kellogg Institute. 
Some of these might make good 
focal points for the discussions 
the Hispanic American 
Organization wishes to foster. 
Jim Langford Director University of Notre Dame Press March 18, 1993 



Dear Editor: 
I am not quite sure how to take Mr. Mike Rood's letter to the editor printed on March 19th. At first his letter struck me as being so ridiculous that I thought perhaps he was trying to be sarcastic. Alas. I'm afraid he was perfectly serious. 
In response, I would like to say first of all that our dining service does a fine job. We must remember that University Food Services has to feed mass numbers of people; therefore the food can not be as good as home-cooked meals. Even if we 
Food Services does the best it possibly can 

don't like the entrees, we can choose from the salad bar, cereals, fresh fruit, the deli line (sometimes). and breads and desserts made in the North Dining Hall bakery. 
Secondly, I would just like to ask Mr. Rood: Why do you think you have a right to complain at all about food? You can have as much as you want to eat at three meals a day while there are other people in this world who are starving. 
Jane E. Smiley Knott Hall March 20, 1993 


noises of the factory in which  
the play is set. Second, they  
serve as a symbol of the racist  
attitudes that still exist in  
today's society by appearing  
identical to the actors in every  
way yet, being segregated  
because they are black.  
In addition to the use of  
music, Lemay has incorporated  
video backdrops into the  
production to give "The  
Juggernaut" a unique flavor.  
The audience is very involved  
with the whole production. "You  
never know when an actor will  
directly address the audience,  
or when an actor will get up  
from the audience to join the  
play. People don't usually  
expect that," said Lemay.  
Lemay describes the play as a  
drama but adds that humor is  
an essential ingredient in the  
play. "When people are  
laughing they are usually more  
open to the points you are  
trying to make. I see humor as  
a weapon to communicate  
ideas. There is a narrow line  
between presenting and  
perpetuating stereotypes. We  
try to knock them down, expose  
them," said Lemay.  
- "The Juggemaur will be performed  at the Moreau Little Theater at  It is hoped that through the laughter, the audience will be­ 
Saint Mary's this Wednesday throug h Friday.  come more alert to the issues  
By RICK DELVECCHIO  deals with issues of sexism,  presented in the play. Lemay  
Accent Writer Alex Lemay is not your ordi­nary director, but then again "The Juggernaut" is not your ordinary play. Lemay and his Taproot Theatre Project have combined to create a unique theatre experience for their audience. "The Juggernaut" is an origi­nal one-act play about "one woman's ordeal in a completely male dominated work-place. It  racism, and the role of media in society," said Lemay. Lemay's job as director is unique because of the play's unique style. Based on the European style of physical theatre "The Juggernaut" combines the use of different media and audience involvement to send its message. Throughout the entire play the local Reggae band Uraeus is on stage, serving a dual  added, "Hopefully people will members of the Taproot playing at the Moreau Littlelaugh and then say, 'That's ter­Theatre Project actively in­Theatre at Saint Mary's. Thererible, I shouldn't be laughing volved. will be 8 p.m. shows onabout that'-and it will get them "It was really fun to work Wednesday, March 25 andthinking about it." with an original text and work Friday, March 28. There willLemay came up with the idea things out using improvisation. also be a 2:30 p.m. Matinee onfor the play, which was It's fun to actually create Sunday, March 28. Ticket pricesoriginally inspired by a William something and see how the are $5.00 for all students andBlake poem, about a year ago. audience reacts. you can say to senior citizens, and $6.00 forFor the last seven weeks, yourself 'That was my idea!' It General Admission. Tickets areLemay has been working with was really a unique op­available at the LaFortunethe actors to write the bulk of portunity," said Stan Sawicki, Information Desk and thethe play. The play was written one of several Notre Dame stu­O'Laughlin Auditorium Boxthrough experimentation and dents acting in the production. Office.  
The Beloved returns rocking the music scene  
In 1990 the Beloved released lyrics of individualistic advice: sends a message of love to a  
their first full-length disc, "You've only got one life/Open utopian dream girl as a fluid  
Happiness, to much critical your eyes/Use it up gently." techno beat rocks tangibly in  
- acclaim, and it spawned two top "Sweet Harmony" is the first the song's outer environment.  
ten dance tracks in the U.S. single released from Conscience The real energy from the song  
Three years later, they have and has already cracked the flows from the soft and sultry  
finished another disc of all-new British top ten. A slow acid background vocals and the  
tracks entitled Conscience. beat thumps throughout and illusionary usage of the key­ 
The reason for the three year Jon Marsh mumbles ecological boards. However, "Outerspace  
hiatus centered around the fact counsel over bouncy keyboards Girl" also presents the only  
that Waddington left the and a wailing saxophone. problem of the songs of the  
partnership in 1991. After Although the song's title refers Beloved. Lyrically, the song  
After a three year hiatus, the Belovf!By ROB ADAMS Music Critic Since 1987 the UK dance duo, the Beloved, has been making computer-generated, high-tech jams with substance.  photo I Kate Garner d recently released Conscience. Jon Marsh and Steve Waddington wrote songs like "Forever Dancing" and "Acid Love," which rocked the late eightii!S with underlying mes­sages of hope and promise for today's youth.  having taken a year off, Jon to a necessary bond between breaks absolutely no new human beings and nature, it ground whatsoever. Music Review could easily describe the And neither does "Let theMarsh decided that group's palpable groove, which Music take You" which contains Waddington's replacement swirls out of the speakers and lines such as "Another songwould be his own wife, Helena. caresses the listener's ears with about dancing/Nightclub chance Conscience does not only each passing second. romancing." Both of thesefeature the husband-wife "Paradise Found" is a seven­songs elate the listener in theiralliance of the Marshes, but minute long workout which fea­approach to music and Jonalso sixteen guest musicians tures an excellent blend of a Marsh's vocals are still,who appear throughout the dance beat, tantalizing fantastic, but they just doentire disc. keyboards, and a hammond notsay anything. This qualityWhile Happiness was cheerful organ. The listener becomes is sad in any song, but it isand optimistic, Conscience is lifted onto a cloud of pure bliss especially sad coming from the more introspective and fearful. where the components of song-writing of Jon and llelena"I think Conscience is offering psychedelia and dance join to­Marsh, who prove to bepotential hope and an optimistic gether to produce a vignette of extremely visionary in theirview of the world, but it's based wondrous freedom. presentation of utopian lyricson a more realistic approach," Marsh's lyrics concerning the elsewhere on the disc. said Jon Marsh of the Beloved's temperament of paradise are Conscience finds the Beloved new effort. quickly reiterated by soulful as a group afraid to use"Spirit" begins the album background vocals. "You've got concrete nouns and living in awith a lackadaisical sound, as a me Thinking," the only actual dream world of "No violence, nomellow hip-hop beat is ballad on the disc, hops slowly hate, no pain, no enemies/Justcomplemented by delicate behind the domination of Jon peace, unity, tolerance, andstring arrangements, juicy Marsh's spiritual vocals and a love." Absorbing Conscience inkeyboards, and a fuzzy guitar superb exhibition of Flamencan its entirety causes the listenerbackground. Jon Marsh's guitar. to receive a general feeling ofhypnotic vocals rise and fall "Outerspace Girl," the passion and joy. along with the bass crooning strongest track on the disc,  

Accent 
page 10 

Enlightened by laughter 
"The Juggernaut" depicts the rea/life issues of racism and sexism 
purpose. First, they provide the 
------------~------------------------------------------~---------------~------.---------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 The Observer 
page 11 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 1993 

Classifieds 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. lo 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classified& is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cenls per character per day, including all spaces. 
Subleased apartment, 1 bdrm; Rent or Sale 2 B.R., W, D, R, R, 2 Pregnant and feeling alone with no Got the March Madness May 20-Aug. 20. Chris (708) 231· baths. Located College Park THE HUDDLE where to turn? We offer confidential Munchies?NOTICES 6954 Condos. Comer of Bulla & PIZZA COMPANY counseling at no cost to you. For Sneak away at halftime to 
Ironwood. Must be responsible HAS more information call Nancy at 232-SUBWAY DEB'S TYPING SERVICE 1·656-ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT tenat $595 permo or Sale &65,900. LOWERED 5843. 3038 PICK-UP/DELIVERY -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in Send info to PO Box 4075 South ALL 6" cold cut combo-still $1.49 
canneries or $4000+/month on Bend IN 46634. THEIR 6" tuna-only $ 1.89 The NDCIBD will be sponsoring a fishing boats. Free transportation! WHOLE PIZZA Adoption: Doctor and teacher will spring forum, Business in the Room & Board! Over 8000 Summer Lease-Live With ND PRICES make dreams for your baby come And always Context of Latin American openings. No experience Grads in Alexandria,VA. CHECK IT OUT! I! true. Full-time parenting. Best of the daily footlong specials Development, "Growth in the necessary. Male or Female. For Near Washington DC & Metro Call city; summers by the beach; your Making", Thursday, March 25 employment program call 1-206-(703) 461-2818 Snap-a-scam man, who the baby rocked to sleep by a cozy SR 23 & IRONWOOD 7:30pm at the Hesburgh Peace 545-4155 ext. A5584 hell do I give my 2$ to? fireplace in winter, and by ocean 277-7744 Center. Everyone is welcome to waves in summer. Art, music, the attend Need 1 bdrm apt for summer. FOR SALE Drummer seeks guitar and best education, endless love. Call 
Call Nicole at X4935. bass players for original band Franny or Stephen collect. 1,400sft Call Dave 1305 (212)369-2597. CREAM YOUR FAVORITE 
ILOST & FOUND I 
ATTENTION INDIGO GIRLS' COND0'$60k'2BED/2BATH LYONITE IS COMINGIIUIII 
FANSII How would you like a w/FPLC & DECK. PERFECT FOR Forum on: Business in the Context Found · Pair of glasses on comer of free ticket to see them? 2 of STUDS/ALUMS. 272-5901 of Latin American Development, ADOPTION: A loving happy home, Sun. March 28 Eddy & Edison. Call232·9672. us need a ride to Decorah lA "Growth in the Making", exciting financial security, and educational Sign-ups in dining halls ....... Mrs. Sniegowski for Apr.16. All gas and lodging SANYO 4 SEPARATE speakers, question and answer opportunities await your newborn. ONLY $1· 
will be paid for. Call Joe at COMPONENT STEREO time, and more... Everyone is We can help with your expenses. *proceeds go to charity' Lost • Gold crucifix & chain before x2033. (tuner, amp,EQ, and tape deck) encouraged to come. Thursday, Please call us collect: David and break. Sent. Value 634·1817 Sean. $150.00 271-1443 March 25, 7:30 pm Hesburgh Peace Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's 
LOOKING FOR A Ask for Steve Center help each other. I lost an emerald earring stud ROOMMATE IN UCLA AREA on St. Patty's Day. If found please, FOR NEXT YEAR. CALL 271-'87 HONDA CIVIC DX hatchbk STAND UP FOR PLEASE get in touch 1263. call Sherri @ 277-4269 for more CHOICE! CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. ND with me. Thanks. info Link arms with us again Grad. Happily married for 4 years. 
Heather x2988 Tues,Wed & Fri Anxious to adopt newborn infant. 
Save Your 

TO PROVE WHAT WE FROM Personal meeting welcome. Lawful REWARDIIII Lost set of keys ND/SMC and proper pregnancy related 
~-FO_R__R_E_N_T~~ ~~-T_IC_K_E_T_S__~ 
with Ren & Stimpy keychain REALLY expenses paid. Couple approved by 
Money.

before Spring Break. Call Four bedroom furnished Oakhill Helpll! I desperately need extra STAND Texas adoption authorities in Ryan x1007. Condo open for summer rental. tickets for graduation! This is my FOR advance of placement. State 
Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug grandparents' last chance to see Call236-9919 supervised adoption procedures. Lost: A pair of Polo glasses with @ 614-237-1370 for info. one of their grandchildren graduate! Call collect: David & Maureen black rims. Shows the Polo Call Gabrielle at 4-3023 Puppies! (512) 452-3416. 
Save Your 

emblem on the inside of each nose 3-5 person furnished house, SEC piece. Possibly left in South Dining Syst, wash/dry, Beach V-Ball, Prime Happy Birthday, Ellen Sanders! Heading for EUROPE this summer? Hall or Morrissey Manor. Please Locaton 233-9947. PERSONAL Celebrate to your heart's content Jet there anytime for only $169 from Lungs. call at x3508 and ask for Josh. but do try to lay off the Blue Dini East Coast, $229 from the Midwest 
SUMMER SESSION -Visiting -The Sixth Sense-drinks. Love, Melissa Maradee & (when available) with AIRHITCHI Professors, grad students. Have you you ever experienced de the Goofs in the Holy Cross corner (Reported in Let's Go! & NY WANTED 4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities. ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing Penthouse. limes.) AIRHITCH (r) $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call you turn to? Do you belief in E.S.P? 212-864-2000. 
Stop 

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • Paul or Monica 232-2794. Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a Jay Earn $2,000+/month + world travel way of life for you? Burke GO 
Smoking

(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, OR HAPPY SCREAM IN' etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Do you think horoscopes and 22nd NAKED employment available. No SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT fortune telling are bogus, perhaps BIRTHDAY NIEMANN!IIIII 
Today!

experience necessary. For NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND even sacrilegious? employment program call IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS We're interested in what you think!! From all the boys at the Blue 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 2773097 Call the Observer Accent dept. and Oyster Club ........ really. talk to Kenya at 1-4540. 

-
.... 
, 
At Port 51. Lucie, Fla. BASEBALL FOOTBALL Montreal 002 000 t 00-3 American League National Football League New York (N) 040 Ot 0 OOx-5 BOSTON RED SOX-sent Jeff McNeely, NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTs-Signed 
Hill, Valdez (6), Walton (7), Fassero (8) and outfielder, and Derek Livernois, pitcher, to Scott Secules, quarterback. Fletcher, Laker (7); Saberhagen, Franco (6), their minor-league camp for reassignment. PHOENIX CARDINALs-Signed Gary Gooden (7) and Hundley. W-$aberhagen, KANSAS CITY ROYALs-optioned Clark, wide receiver, to a three-year 
t-2. L-Hill, 2-1. Sv-Gooden (1). HAs­Mike Magnante, pitcher; Terry Shumpert, contract. Montreal, Alou (1). New York, Hundley (1). second baseman; and Bob Hamelin, first SAN FRANCISCO 49ERs-Signed baseman, to Omaha of the American Derek Lovilia, running back, and Anthony At Port Charlotte, Fla Association. Moss, linebacker. Chicago (A)(ss) 130 500 10t-11 MINNESOTA TWINS-Optioned Rich Canadian Football League Texas 000 010 13G-5 Garges and George Tsamis, pitchers, to HAMILTON TIGER-CATs-Signed Ken 
McCaskill, Drahman (6), Thigpen (7), Portland of the Pacific Coast League. Sent Evraire, slot back. Schrenk (8), Schwarz (9) and Hemond, Damian Miller, catcher, to their minor­Wrona (8); Ryan, Lee (5), Pavlik (7), Henke league camp for reassignment. 
(9) and Rodriguez, D.Davis (6). W­NEW YORK YANKEEs-optioned SCHEDULE McCaskill, 2-1. L-Ryan, 1-2. HAs­Sterling Hitchcock, pitcher, to Columbus of Chicago, Hall (1). Texas, Gil (1). the International League. Sent Kiki NIT Glance 
Hernandez, catcher, to their minor-league Second Round At Tempe, Ariz. camp for reassignment. • Sunday, March 21 California 001 000 103-5 SEATTLE MARINERS-Sent Reggie Providence 68, West Virginia 67 Seattle 000 OOt 10o-2 Harris, pitcher, outright to Calgary of the Monday, March 22 
Finley, Crim (5), Frey (8), Grahe (9), and Pacific Coa51 League. Miami, Ohio 60, Old Dominion 58 Orton, Tingley (7), Myers (9); Johnson, TEXAS RANGERS-Signed Mike Minnesota 86, Oklahoma 72 Holman (7), Nelson (8), and Valle. W-Frey, Schooler, pitcher, to a minor-league Boston Collage 101, Rice 68 1-o. L-Nelson, 1-1. Sv-Grahe (t). contract with Oklahoma City of the Alabama-Birmingham 65, Clemson 64 
American Association. SW Missouri 51. 70, Jackson St. 52 At Phoenix, Ariz. National League Pepperdine at Southern Cal, (n) Chicago (N) 200 020 OOG-4 COLORADO ROCKIEs-Assigned Brett Tuesday, March 23 Oakland 300 121 OOx-7 Merriman, Mo Sanford, Dana Ridenour and Texas-EI Paso (21-12) at Georgetown 
Guzman, McElroy (5), Smith (6), Scanlan Scott Fredrickson, pitchers, and J. Owens, (17-t2), 7:30p.m. (7), Assenmacher (8), and Lake, Padre (7); catcher, to Colorado Springs of the Pacific Young, Gossage (6), Mohler (7), Honeycutt Coast League. Quarterfinals (8), Eckersley (9), and Steinbach. W­LOS ANGELES DODGERs-optioned Sites and Dates TBA Young, t-0. L-Guzman, 0-2. Sv-Eckersley Mike Busch and Eddie Pya, infielders, and SW Missouri St. (20-10) vs. Alabama­(t). HRs--<:hicago, Wilson (1). Oakland, Billy Ashley, outfielder, to Albuquerque of Birmingham (19-13) 
A. Henderson 2 (2), Steinbach 2 (3), Sveum the Pacific Coast League. Released Lance Georgetown-UTEP winner vs. Miami, {1). McCullers and Wally Ritchie, pitchers. Ohio (22-8) 
SAN DIEGO PADREs-Optioned Scott Boston College (18-12) vs. Providence At Chandler, Ariz. Sanders and nm Worrell, pitchers; D.J. (19-t1) San Diego 010 110 121-7 Dozier, outfielder; and Luis Lopez, Infielder, Pepperdine-USC winner vs. Mimiesota Milwaukee 160 020 OOx-9 to Las Vegas of the Pacific Coast League. (t9-10) 
Brocail, Taylor (2), Hernandez (4), Sent Joe Strong and Ray Young, pitchers; Rodriguez (6), Boucher (8), and W&Hers, Bob Geren, catcher; and Jarvis Brown, Semifinals Higgins (7); Wegman, Austin (6), Henry (8), outfielder. to their minor-league camp for Monday, March 29 
Lloyd (9), and Kmak, Matheny (7). W­reassignment. At Madison Square Garden Wegman, 3-o. L-Brocell, 0-1. Sv-Uoyd (2). BASKETBALL New York HRs-sen Diego, Pegues (1). Milwaukee, National Basketball Association 
Reimer (2). DALLAS MAVERICKs-Signed Tim Finals Legler, guard, for the remainder of the Wednesday, March 31 season. At Madison Square Garden 
New York 

1993 .. 1994 EMPLOYMENT 
Student Activities is hiring students for the 93~94 academic year. 
Positions available in all areas:  
Office Assistants  LaFortune Building Managers  
Stepan Building Managers  Information Desk Attendants  
Sound Technicians  Games Room Attendants  
Building Set Up Crew  Ballroom Room Monitors  
24 Hour Lounge Monitors  Irish Express Clerks/Managers  

Pick up appJications at 315 LaFortune. Deadline extended to Friday, March 26. 
Gain va ua e wor experience ing a position with the Student Business Board Help run an organization with sales of nearly $100,000 per year! 
The Business Board is responsible for the operations of the Three Student Run Business: 
Irish Gardens Adworks Notre Dame Video 
Applications for General Manager (Seniors to be) will be due 
on Friday, March 26. Applications for Assistant General 
Manager (Juniors to be) will be due on Friday, April 2. 
All applications can be picked up in the Student Government 
office on the 2nd floor in LaFortune. Interviews will follow. 
lease call Matt Cenedella at 631,3504. 

Exhibition Glance AMERICAN LEAGUE 
W  
NewYork  14  
Milwaukee  11  
Minnesota  12  
Chicago  t2  
Ba~imore  9  
California  9  
Oakland  9  
Texas  9  
Seattle  6  
Cleveland  7  
Kansas City  8  
Boston  7  
Toronto  4  
Detroit  3  

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
W Cincinnati t1 Philadelphia 9 Pittsburgh t 0 Montreal 8 Florida 10 San Diego 9 Colorado t 0 Atlanta 9 Chicago t 0 Houston 8 Los Angeles 8 51. Louis 8 NewYork 7 San Francisco 7 Monday'a Qamaa 
L  Pd.  
7  .6ffl  
6  .647  
7  .632  
9  .571  
7  .563  
6  .529  
1 0  .474  
10  .474  
t 0  .444  
9  .436  
t1  .421  
12  .368  
13  .235  
14  .176  
L  Pd.  
4  .733  
6  .600  
7  .588  
6  .571  
8  .556  
8  .529  
9  .526  
9  .500  
1 0  .500  
8  .500  
8  .500  
8  .500  
10  .412  
12  .368  

Late Games Not included Atlanta (ss) 8, New York Yankees (ss) 2 Boston 8, Minnesota 6 Atlanta (ss) 8, Aorida 7 Chicago White Sox (ss) 6, Detroit (ss) 2 
51. Louis 7, Kansas City 1 New York Yankees (ss) vs. Los Angeles at 
Vero Beach, Fla., ccd., field condition New York Mats 5, Montreal 3 Chicago White Sox (ss) 11, Texas 5 California vs. Seattle at Tempe, Ariz. Chicago Cuba vs. Oakland at Phoenix Sen Diego vs. Milwaukee at Chandler, Ariz. San Francisco vs. Colorado at Tucson, 
Ariz. 
Monday'• Exhibition Unaacoraa 
At Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
Atlanta (ss) 060 100 010---a 
New York (A) (ss) 110 000 OOQ-2 
Hostetler, Davis (4), Freeman (6), McMichael (7), Mercker (8) and Berryhill, Cabrera (7); Militello, Kamieniecki (4), Monteleone (9) and Nokes, Stanley (9). W­Hostetler, t-o. L-Militello, 3-1. Sv-Mercker (1). HR-Aitanta, Gant (t). 
At Fort Myers, Fla. 
Minnesota 010 400 10o-6 
Boston 003 230 OOx-6 
Tapani, Erickson (5) and Harper, Parks (6); Hesketh, Harris (5), Melendez (7), Young (8), Ryan (9) and Flaherty. W-Harris, 3-t. L-Erickson, 0-1. Sv-Ryan (2). HR­Boston, Fletcher (1 ). 
At West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Florida 000 430 OOG-7 Atlanta 110 010 23x-6 
Hough, WaHers (7), Griffiths (7) and Santiago, Decker (8); SmoH, Bedrosian (6), Wohlers (8), Howell (9) and Olson, Lopez (9). W-Wohlers, 1-1. L-Griffiths, 0-2. Sv­Howell (1). HR-Aorida, Barberis (1). 
At Sarasota, Fla. Detroit (ss) 000 200 ooo-2 Chicago (A) (ss) ooo 300 30x-a 
Doherty, Haas (5), DeSilva (7), Groom (8) and Kreuter; McDowell, Pall (6), Baldwin (8), Radinsky (9) and Karkovice, Alvarez (8). W­McDowell, 3-o. L-Doherty, 0-3. HR­Detroit, Kreuter (1). 
At 51. Petersburg, Fla. Kansas City 000 000 001-1 51. Louis 410 000 02x-7 
Gubicza, Montgomery (5), Bailes (7), DiPino (8) and MacFarlane; Tewksbury, Murphy (7), lancaster (8), L.Smlth (9) and Lyons, Villanueva (7). W-Tewskbury, 3-o. L-Gubicza, 1-2. HR-51. Louis, Villanueva (1). 
~ltl'l ~.~~ ~;,;;~~~~gSt. Hours:~~~~~~~~~~~~~.m. 
1 • f. (ZI9) Z55-5Z14 Sunday 12:30-7 p.m. New, Healthy Korean Menu! 
Lunch Buffet: Tues-Fri 11:30-Z p.m. $4.95 all you can eat. Open Sunday for Dinner Buffet: IZJ0-7 p.m. All you can eat. Includes: braised hot pork, chob chae, sweet and sour pork, soups, appetizers, salads, fruits and dessens. All for only $8.50. 
*Save up to $3000 on your next r.ar or truck *College graduate rebate of $400 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
Elkhart 674-9926 Toll tree (800) 837-1981 
JORDAN 
FORD 
TOYOTA VOLVO MITSUBISHI 
LINCOLN-MERCU 
Are you a government, economics or philosophy major? Are you interested in pursuing some inter-disciplinary questions? 
Ifso) maybe PPE is for you! Philosophy, Politics and Economics Concentration 
-Information meeting­Thursday, March 25 218 0'Shaughnessy 7:00.,8:00 or see Professor ]ohn Roos 424 Decio ext. 7556 

~-~-------~~--~~---------~------------­
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 The Observer 
page 13 
Bo, Ozzie lead ChiSox past Tigers, 6-2 Boston stops Minnesota; Mets down Montreal 
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP) -Bo Minnesota. Cooper, who entered PORT CHARLOTTE, Fla. ­Jackson and Ozzie Guillen, both the game batting .156 this Nolan Ryan gave up nine runs coming back from career­spring, had a two-run single and 10 hits, including rookie threatening injuries, drove in and a sacrifice fly. He also Joe Hall's grand slam, and a two runs each Monday to help doubled and scored. Chicago split squad beat Texas. the Chicago White Sox beat Brian Harper hit a three-run Ryan (1-2) pitched five Detroit 6-2 in a split-squad double for the Twins. innings in his previous two game. It was the Tigers' 12th Mets 5, Expos 3 games. He lasted only four after straight exhibition loss. PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. -John throwing 90 pitches against the 
Chad Kreuter hit his first Franco, making his first game White Sox. home run of the spring. a two­appearance since undergoing The right-hander's spring run shot off Jack McDowell (3-elbow surgery, pitched a training ERA rose from 1.80 to 
0) in the fourth inning to give shutout inning in relief and 7.07. 
· the Tigers a 2-0 lead. The Cy Todd Hundley hit a grand slam Brewers 9, Padres 7 Young runner-up, who missed as the New York Mets beat CHANDLER, Ariz. his last scheduled start with a Montreal. Franco, 32, had Milwaukee starter Bill Wegman sore back, struck out five with surgery on his left elbow' last had his consecutive scoreless one walk in five innings. Sept 29 to repair a torn flexor innings streak snapped at 13 Braves (ss) 8, Yankees 2 tendon. against San Diego, but FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla.­Dwight Gooden, who missed improved his spring training Ron Gant's three-run homer his last assignment with a sore record to 3-0. capped a six-run Atlanta second big left toe, pitched three Kevin Reimer started a six­inning off Sam Militello as a innings for the save. Gooden run second inning for the Braves split squad beat the New balked in a run but retired the Brewers with a single and hit a York Yankees. final seven batters. two-run homer in the fifth, his Militello (3-1) gave up six Cardinals 7, Royals 1 second of the spring. runs, none earned, and four ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.-Bob Athletics 7, Cubs 4 hits in three innings. A Tewksbury pitched three-hit PHOENIX Rickey candidate for one of two ball for six innings as St Louis Henderson and Terry Steinbach vacancies in the Yankees' beat Kansas City. Tewksbury each hit two home runs and rotation, Militello struggled with was an All-Star last season with four relievers combined to pitch his control, walking six and a 16-5 record, a 2.16 ERA and four hitless innings as Oakland striking out two. only 20 walks 233 innings. defeated Chicago. 
Red Sox 8, Twins 6 Tewksbury threw only 59 Cubs starter Jose Guzman, FORT MYERS, Fla. -Scott pitches and walked none who signed a four-year $14.2 
Cooper drove in three runs and against Kansas City. Scott Fletcher had a two-run White Sox (ss) 11, homer as Boston defeated Rangers 5 
God giveseach person one lifetime. What are you doingwith yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

million contract during the winter, has a 9.00 spring ERA 
AP File Photo 

and is 0-2. 
Dwight Gooden pitched three innings for the save in the Mets' 5-3 win. 
Owners propose roster changes 
PALM DESERT, Calif. (AP) -ommended 7-0 by the competi­league awarding the 1996 Su­The NFL, in an effort to deal tion committee and received per Bowl to Phoenix. It was with injuries in a more orderly strong support from the Man­supposed to have been played way, proposed Monday a six­agement Council executive there last January but was player expansion of rosters and rommittee; -on which six more taken away when until Arizona limits on injured reserve. teams are represented. It will voters approved a Martin 
The same rule would also need 21 votes for approvai.For Luther King holiday, which they give coaches more the past five seasons, teams did last November. maneuverability in matching up have been restricted to 47 Meanwhile, there were these their players with opponents. players and allowed to activate free agency developments: 
The rule-making competition 45. They are also allowed to The Chicago Bears re-signed committee recommended a suit up a third quarterback, quarterback Jim Harbaugh for proposal that would expand who can play only if the first $13 million over 4 years. rosters from 47 players to 53 two are injured and unable to Phoenix signed wide receiver and limit injured reserve to return. Gary Clark of Washington a 3­players with season-ending in­Now teams will be required to year, $6 million contract, the juries. get down to 47 on the final cut, latest big-name player to get 
The five-man practice squad then build back up to 53 play­big bucks. And Jim Quinn and would remain in effect though ers plus add a practice squad. Gene Upshaw, who negotiated teams would still be allowed to But any player placed on in­free agency for the players, met dress only 45 players for jured reserve --both before with the owners during the games. and after cutdown -must be afternoon. 
-·­
The move to expand rosters held out for the seasons. 
was unveiled Monday at the Players with short-term in­In addition, Tagliabue said he 
first full session of the spring juries -one week to indefinite had determined the Philadel­
owners' meetings. -would have to be kept on the phia Eagles would receive the 
It's expected to be voted on 53-man roster to be reactivated 13th overall pick in this year's 
Tuesday or Wednesday and its during the years. draft for Reggie White, this 
chances seem good. It was rec-The new rules should cut year's most desirable free 

~!:CLUB 
Don't miss Cliff Erickson's annual performances on his national tour. 
This Friday 8 Saturday IO•Z 
Club opens at 9, come early for the best seats. 
mustbeZ1 

down on the red-shirting of promising rookies who aren't ready to play and are placed on injured reserve while they practice for a season. 
The day began with the 

agent. The pick would be in­serted between No. 12, the Los Angeles Raiders and No. 14 Denver on the grounds that the Raiders are the last sub-.500 team. 
Heu Bill-
Avcrumcrru 
un-birthday... 
Love, Mom, Dad, Laurie & Koreu 
---~----~-------------~-~---~~-----------~~-~--~--­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 23, 1993 
Cheaney: Leader of the Hoosier machine 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indi­ana's Calbert Cheaney says he's just part of a machine -a mighty big part as the Big Ten's all-time scoring leader. 
"People tend not to under­
stand our team. It's not just me. We have very talented players," said Cheaney, who is averaging 
22.2 points for 

the season and Calbert 
the top-seeded 
Hoosiers advanced to the NCAA 
Midwest Regional semifinals 
with victories over Wright State 
and Xavier. 

·-''I'm just part of a unit, doing my job, scoring, rebounding and defending," said the 6-foot­7 1/2 forward. "Our success is achieved when I do my job. When I don't, then my teammates have made up for it." Top-ranked Indiana (30-3) plays Louisville (22-8) Thursday in St. Louis in pursuit of a sec­ond consecutive Final Four ap-
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
held the Wildcats to a single run off a Chris Gonzalez homer run in the bottom of the ninth. Michalak struck out the last two batters to end the game. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame fell 13-10 in an extra-inning con­test on a Gonzalez three-run roundtripper in the bottom of the 11th off Marty DeGraff. 
A controversial call in the Irish end of the 11th ended what could have been an Irish rally. Paul Failla doubled and tagged on a Danapilis fly down the right field line. The umpires saw it differently and called Failla out on the appeal. 
Freshmen Rowan Richards and Ryan Topham were major contributors in the game with Richards going 4 for 5 with one RBI and Topham hitting his first career home run in the third. Also showing well at the plate for the Irish in the game were Hartwell (2 for 5, 4 RBI), Failla (2 for 6) and Danapilis (2 for 4, 3 RBI). 
Tim Kraus started the game 
and was replaced by Dave 
Sinnes in the third inning. 
Sinnes notched five earned runs 
and four strikeouts in 5.2 
innings on the mound. DeGraff 
took the loss despite pitching 
well in the final innings. 
On Sunday, Lohrn Frazier 
went eight innings striking out 
five for the 8-7 Kentucky win 
while Eddie Brooks carried the pearance. 

"It's not like the conference where you can lose a game and still win a championship," said Cheaney, who has scored 2,559 points. "You've got to take one game at a time, because it's one loss and you're out." 
Cheaney has led the Hoosiers in scoring 18 times this season and shared the lead in three other games. He's also shared or topped the team in rebounds nine times while averaging 6.2 per game -the second highest mark on the team. 
"This year I am more com­petitive and playing harder. Last year. I worked hard but didn't show much emotion," he said. 
"Now, I'm one of four seniors. As far as being a leader, I need to show emotion, not just for myself but to urge everyone on. "Teammate Pat Graham said Cheaney's not the type to seek the limelight. 
"It's great playing with him," Graham said. "Everyone has just come together as one. It's not one of these things where it's a one-man team." 
But, when the game is on the 
Wildcats at the plate with two home runs including the game­winner in the seventh. 
Notre Dame was playing catch-up all game and never managed to catch the Wildcats. The Irish were led by Failla (2 for 3, 1 RBI), Danapilis (2 for 4, 1 RBI), Craig DeSensi (2 for 4, 1 HR), Robbie Kent (2 for 4, 1 RBI) and Richards (2 for 4, 2 RBI, 1 HR). 
AI Walania took the loss after allowing seven runs on 12 hits in just over five innings of work on the mound. 
In the second game of Sun­
's doubleheader, 's 
The Observer/JakePeters Tom Price lost a 9-6 decision. 
line Cheaney usually is the one who comes up with the big play. Indiana's latest victory was no exception. 
Cheaney had Indiana's only two baskets in the final seven minutes of Sunday's 73-70 vic­tory over Xavi-er. And with 1:08 to play and Indiana leading 66­64, he had a key block. Then, he made four free throws and came up with a crucial defen­sive rebound in the final 30 seconds. 
Before the game, Indiana coach Bob Knight had Cheaney discuss Xavier and its coach, Pete Gillen. 
"Calbert had an opportunity to play in England on a team that P.J. Carlesimo and Pete coached. I talked to the team about ingredients for a good basketball program -quick­ness, intelligence and a pro­gram that had been set up for a while," Knight said. 
"I even had Calbert talk to the team ... about Pete and his ability to get the best out of his team." 
Cheaney is shooting 79 per­cent from the free throw line for a team that has made more 
Brad Hindersman won the 9-6 
game on a grand slam in the 
bottom of the sixth off Irish 
reliever Danapilis to cap off a 
five-run inning. 
Notre Dame starter Tom Price 
lasted five-plus innings and 
took the loss while Paul Morse 
got the win for the Wildcats in 
the seven inning game. 
Haas (1 for 2), Hartwell (2 for 
3) and Layson (1 for 4) provided spark at the plate with each connecting on a solo home run. 
The Irish open Midwestern Collegiate Conference play this weekend with a four-game series against Xavier. 
!RECYCLE THIS I 
(648) than its opponents have attempted (555). 
"It's just a matter of concen­trating,'' he said. "If you con­centrate, you'll hit more than three-quarters." 
The Big Ten champions are anticipating close games for the remainder of the tournament. They hope to leave St. Louis with tickets to New Orleans, where Indiana captured its fifth NCAA championship in 1987. 
"You get down to the stretch like this, it separates the men from the boys," Cheaney said. "We're not the type of team that gets caught up in ourselves, being conceited or stuff like that. We know that we have a job to do and that's to be as tough a team as we can be. 
"We're just making it our job to keep going." 
Meanwhile, the Hoosiers will be going for a school record against Louisville. Indiana is 86-15 over the last three sea­sons. The school record for victories in that span is 86, set by Indiana teams from 197 4-7 6 when the Hoosiers captured three consecutive Big Ten titles and one NCAA championship. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Aikido Club will have prac­tice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. 
The Equestrian Club is having a club show. If you are interested in showing stockseat at Purdue on March 27, plea.'ie call Katie at 284-5520. 
NO/Saint Mary's women's lacrosse will meet at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's for practice. If weather is had. go to Loftus at 4 p.m.. If you have any ques­tions, call Heather Jackson at 284-5703. 
Bookstore Basketball is looking for a joke team to play against campus celebrities in the Hall of Fame Game on March 28. Contact Andy at 634-1223 if you are interested. 
. Bookstore Basketball captains' meeting will be March 25 at 7 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. It will be short and schedules will be passed out. All should attend. 
SportsTalk welcomes 
guest analyst Tom Rinehart to discuss the NCM tournament at 8 p.m. on 640AM. 
1ourney Of Hope
Sponsored by: Murder Victims Families for Reconciliation 
Robert Gross (Journey of Hope coordinator) -will describe the purpose and nature of the "]oumey of Hope" campaign in Indiana against the death penalty. 
Ruth Andrews (Victim and Offender Reconciliation Program) -will describe her ownexperiences in dealing with the loss of a family member to murder 
March 25, 1993 Noon • Law School Courtroom 
IIU8111111J 
Pangborn Hall presents:~ 
... , 
SLAMMER STORAC\E 
Call Fo~ Rese~va+iol-'l Maste~ MiJI\i Wa~ehoV\se 683-1959 (;Afte~ 5: 684-0285) 



~ -~--~­

Today ­
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 
Brin!! if to us insteadl  THE UlTiMATE  $8  HAiRCUT!  
DroP off vour laundrv in the  
morning,Pick it UP the same afternoon!  l 8 l l SouTH BENd AvE.  271--7674  
wiTH STudENT 10  EXPIRES 3/31/9 3  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
5\JRE. SCI'i:.~\IST'S COME UP W\111 GREAT, WILD 
T\1\:.0R\£:>, BUT T\1t.N rut.'( GIVE THEM. 0\JLL, 
UN\1'111\GINMIVE 
N~W~.S. 

CROSSWORD 
Crossword 
Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 
ACROSS 271n agreement 29 Russian

1 Baby food 
turndown

4Georgia­
30Gaelic

9 Celebrated 
31 Emulate Mike 

archer 
Nichols

13 W.ood s.orreL . 
"33 ·-··-··Tu'," 1932 

14 Dinsmore of 
pop song 

fiction 
35 Take steps 

15 Contradict 
36 Jailbird type? 

16 Where R.N.'s 
38 Afts.

sometimes work 41 Switch attachment
17 Discourage 
U.M.W. work? 42 Subordinate 19 Shelter 
despot 44 Duel memento

21 Kampala is its capital 48Sod 22 Health club 50 Plunder 23 Staffordshire 51 Dashiell river contemporary 26 Chesterfield, for 52 Burdens, to one Brutus 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-'-'+--'+=+=--~ .....t-:::::-+=+:,-~ 
' 
'~ 
~~ 
,.._,_ 

FOR HA\A.PL'i:., 5CIENW3TS 1\-\1~\( SPI\C'i:. I':> FULL 0\" t-\~5T£.RIO\.l'S, IN\J\5\'alE MI\S'S, S<J WI\~\ \)() T\-\t.'! CI\LL If? 
"MRJ< Mfl.TTE.R".' l>'JI-IH! I TELL 'ia\J, nlt.Q'i:.S A 
FOR\\Jt-.1\:. TO BE MP..D£ 
Ht.Rt:! \ 

38 Expert models? 39 Kind of witness 40 Emulate Hari 
43 Amphibian 44 Blanketlike 
garment 45 Doctrines 46 Los-, N.M. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
BILL WATIERSON 
INSTEAD OF M~\:ING 1\t-1. ID\01 cr '10\JR'St.LI', 'ril-l'! 
Dol-l~ ~0\.J GO 
1=\Nil Mt: ~E. 
SC.IE~T\STS? 
Through mostly grunts and exaggerated gestures, 
two fishermen/gatherers attempt to communicate. 
47 Spring back 
49 "My-Flicka" 
53-asabeet 
56 Romberg's 
"-Alone" 
sa Regarding 
59 Bohemian 
61 Piggery 

62 Afternoon social 
54 Jungle swinger 55 Sanity 57 Duncan of 
dance 60 Madison Ave. V.I.P.'s? &3"little-Echo" 
64 First Pulitzer Prize novelist: 1918 
65 Palindromic belief 66 Have a little lamb 67 Being, to Aquinas 
68 Writers' retreat in Saratoga Springs 
69 Stallone, to friends 
DOWN 
1 Master Christopher's friend 2 Puzzle type 3 Dad's recreation? 4 Cure start &Choose 6 Backward, at sea 7 Co.'s French cousin 8 Part of H.R.H. 9 Bridge combination 10 Author Wylie 11 Darnell and Ronstadt 
12 Emissary 15 Tom Hanks film: 
1988 18 Complains 20 Window portion 24Examines 
bauxite? 25 Musical Peter 27 Nabokov title 28"-homo!" 32 An ice cream 34 Pierce 37Common or 
oroperword 


-
Sports 
page 16 

Tuesday, March 23, 1993 
..... 

The Observer/ Jake Peters 
Eric Danapilis and the Irish baseball team dropped three of four games to the University of Kentucky over this past weekend. 

By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team (3-6) looked like it was headed for a winning road trip on Friday after defeating Kentucky 7-6 in the opening game of a four-game series. It turned out to be the only win the Irish got as the Wildcats (11-5) took three close games from the Irish over the weekend. 
Seniors Chris Michalak, Ed Hartwell and Eric Danapilis shined in the Irish win. Michalak (3-0) led Notre Dame from the mound striking out seven while walking only two. Hartwell and Danapilis sparked the Irish from the other side of the plate. Danapilis knocked in Hartwell each of the four times he scored including on a ninth­inning two-out double which proved to be the winning run. 
Irish coach Pat Murphy was happy with the win. 
"It is great to come into an SEC school against its No. 1 pitcher and win in a tough park. We played well against Kentucky, who is a very well­disciplined team. Scott Smith (UK starter) didn't walk a batter and we still beat him," said Murphy. 
Michalak was pleased with his performance, but credited the Irish hitters for the win. 
"I pitched a decent game. I was aggressive and went after hitters. We won because of our offense. Our hitters did a great job," said Michalak who passed Mike Co!Tey (1987 -1990} on the career appearances list with 74. "I kept Kentucky off-stride. They got some hits. but I didn't let it get to me." 
In terms of improvement. Michalak wants to fine tune his style. 
"I want to cut down on walks. They've been a real thorn in my side right now. I'm working on the little things: keeping the ball down, refining things and sharpening the tools," said Michalak. 
Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead with two runs in the first inning after Greg Layson was hit by a pitch and Hartwell singled to reach base. Danapilis hit his first RBI single of the day 
As the regular season winds down, the Irish men's volleyball team is faced with a tough dual match against University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee tonight and the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Tournament on Friday and Saturday. 
To make matters worse, the Irish will be depleted in the middle tonight and this weekend. Matt Strottman is day-to­day with a knee injury, and backup Chris Murdy will be flying home to attend his grandfather's funeral. missing both the match and the tournament. 
"We'll be moving a lot of people around," said Irish coach Jen Slosar. "Leo Casas will probably go to the middle for Matt." 
With the injuries, Slosar felt that additional help from the outside hitter position would be a big factor. This help lies in the hands of freshmen Miguel Aseencio, who has seen increased playing time of late, and Bill Haney, who has been a key sub throughout the season. 
Against Wisconsin-Milwaukee, the Irish will be racing their first varsity opponent in some time, and a good one at that. Wisconsin-Milwaukee defeated Laurentian (Canada) in three games while the Irish fell to Laurentian in five during the preseason, a fact that is not 

Kentucky takes series from Irish 
Murphy's squad wins first, drops three close ones 
Injury-riddled men's volleyball ready for Wisconsin-Mil. 
By KEVIN DOLAN lost on outside hitter Pat Madden. Sports Writer "If they can beat Laurentian in three 

straight, they're obviously pretty good," said Madden. 
According to team captain Brian Ceponis, the Irish have more than a shot at victory. 
"We just have to play well, and hope the right team shows up," Ceponis said, a reference to the spotty performance against Central Michigan on March 19. The Irish dominated at times, but were controlled in Game 3 of that match, losing 8-15. 
The Irish have also been hurt by a lack of practice space, fighting a losing battle against the cheerleading tryouts for the JACC's Pit. Despite the lack of practice time, however, Slosar feels the Irish are ready for the weekend tournament. 
"Everybody's really keyed up, especially after losing Friday night (on a controversial net violation called on Tom Kovats). We're looking for people to step up as the season winds down." 
The Irish have high expectations for the MIVA's, resting heavily on "confidence," according to Ceponis. 
"We expect to come out of our pool in good standing," said Ceponis. 
Madden added, "If we play well in our pool, we should get a bye into the top 8 teams of the tournament. If we do that, we should be able to control our own 
The Observer/ Pat McHugh 
destiny." 

Pat Madden, shown here against Laurentian, will be key for Notre Dame's success. 
O~~OliD~ SPORTS 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
BASEBALL Complete men's brackets. White Sox, Mets win; see page 11 Nolan Ryan roughed up. 'see page 13 
and Matt Haas followed with a ground out which forced in a run. 
The Wildcats finally put a run on the board in the fifth off a Pookie Jones solo home run. The Irish answered in the sixth when Matt Haas scored on a Korey Wrobleski sacrifice fly. 
Hartwell, Danapilis and Haas teamed up for two more runs in the seventh when Hartwell was hit by a pitch, Danapilis crushed a run-scoring double and Haas chipped in an HBI single. 
The Wildcats kept fighting and Paul Morse hit a two-run home run in the bottom of the seventh to bring the score to 6-3. Kentucky pieked up two more runs in the eighth to draw within one run. 
Mter scoring in their half of the ninth, the Irish 
see BASEBALUpage 14 
Steve Verduzco leaves Notre Dame for JUCO 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's Steve Verduzco left the University yesterday and returned home to California. The sophomore centerfielder is transferring to a junior college in his home state where he will not loss a year of '"' "' '""'"~,-~ 
"He leaves us on good terms ",'' and I wish him nothing but success wherever he decides to 
go," said Irish head coach Pal '+_.;-~.~. 
eligibility. A.··,. 
.. ;

Murphy. ',""
Verduzco saw his playing time minimalized in the early weeks of this season after 
Steve

freshman Rowan Richards played standout baseball over Verduzco the spring break trip. 
Verduzco was drafted in the fifth round by Philadelphia, and ranked as the sixth highest draftee to enter college in 1991. He turned down a six-figure contract to enroll at Notre Dame. 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Calbert Chaney is the leader of IU's machine. 
see page 14 








