

Wednesday, December 8, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 63 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
By LYNN BAUWENS  Of the present senior class,  
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor  71.8 percent reside on campus,  
according to Crahen. This year  
When the lease on Augusta Hall from the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross expires in the spring of 1995, Saint Mary's will not renew it, according to Sherri Crahen, di­rector of Residence Life.  64 seniors live in Augusta, in­cluding two resident advisors. After next year, Residence Life will have to consider other options to offer seniors who wish to remain on campus, Crahen said.  
"After May of 1995 we will no longer be using Augusta, " Crahen said.  Augusta will be used to ac­commodate the numbers of sis­ters who are returning to retire  
The College will also pur­chase Regina Hall from the Sisters in January 1994, and continue to use the hall for stu­ at the Mother House. The returning of Augusta and the sale of Regina are part of the restructuring of the  
dent housing. The Congregation currently owns both Augusta and Regina. They have leased the halls to the College to be used as stu­dent residences since 1970 and  College's governance. This oc­curs in light of the continuing decline of the number of sisters in the Holy Cross order. Complete details of the plan will be revealed in January  
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde A conspiracy in the air It is Christmastime and there is no snow in South Bend. Maybe the Administration bought off Mother Nature in order to put an end to the annual snowball fight. Regardless of the weather, the dome remains one of the most beautiful sights on campus.  1969 respectively. As part of the separation be­tween the College and the founding order, Saint Mary's will discontinue use of Augusta, according to Crahen. Seniors have traditionally chosen Augusta as an alterna­tive to off-campus living be­cause of the privacy, indepen­dence, and the responsibility of having their own keys and not having a front desk.  1994 the College begins its sesquicentennial celebration. If all legal and canonical aspects are worked out, the plan will take effect during the 1994-95 school year. The lottery for housing ac­commodations in Augusta for the class of 1995 will be held in March. Sister Catherine O'Brien, President of the Congregation, was not available for comment.  

Augusta lease not renewed; seniors given other choices 
School ofArchitecture voted a free-standing academic entity 
By TONY POTINGER News Writer 
Historically a division of the College of Engineering, the School of Architecture was made independent in a unani­mous vote this past September by the College of Engineering Council, and will become a free-standing academic entity in September of next year, said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
"We've been in transition for the past two years, anticipating this move," said Thomas Gordon Smith, chairman of the School of Architecture. 

"Independence will allow for greater prosperity," said O'Meara. "It sends a message to the architectural community that we [Notre Dame) value our architectural program highly." 
With a faculty of 16 and an enrollment of 222 students, the School of Architecture has his­torically been among the most rigorous programs of study at the University. Students progress through a five-year curriculum which includes study in Rome during the third year. Graduate programs in Classical Studies and Urban Design are also offered. 
First taught in 1898 by a Chicago architect who com­muted weekly to campus, the formal program was estab­lished in 1906. During World War One, it became a division of the College of Engineering. 
Tony Michel, dean of the College of Engineering, said that, "The University is ready to make this move because it has become an accepted fact in the community of architectural schools that if you're not an autonomous unit, then you are perceived as second-rate." 

'The move will help us in re­cruiting both faculty and stu­dents because we will not be seen as a subunit of another program," said Norman Crowe, associate professor of urban design. 
"We've achieved our auton­omy with the complete support and cooperation of Tony Michel," said Smith. "It's a real sign of Notre Dame's confi­dence in the progress of the school." 
Meanwhile, the School of Architecture will keep its de­partmental structure while its administration will report di­rectly to the provost. A reno­vation of the Architecture Building is set for the 1994-95 year. 
Reflection combines conflicting ideas 
By JENNIFER GIOVA By combining all three ideas, press their moral voice, accord­News Writer the Bishops leave their letter ing to Lopez. 
open to debate on how well it In the section for shaping re­
The 1993 Pastoral Reflection does any of the three, accord­sponsibility for U.S. leadership on Peace is a patchwork quilt of ing to Lopez. in the world, "there is a per­ideas, built by a committee con­The Bishops of the 1993 letter scriptive tone to this section, taining a variety of political applied the well know phrase, there's less pronounced real 
and theological musings, each in dangerous times, say noth­public policies than there was of which are true in their own ing, "but instead of saying noth­in 1983," he said. regard, but become much more ing, they said a little about a lot "You could not read the 1983 
difficult and complex to deal of things," commented Lopez. letter and not be very clear with when woven together, ac­It is therefore a much less clear what you were being asked to cording to George Lopez, a pro­letter, making contervailing do if you were Secretary of fessor of government. ascertions, and "a charge for Defense, in fact that's what One of the drawbacks of the the Christian community to lead to such great controversy Reflection is that it attempted flush them out." about the letter, " said Lopez. to combine three conflicting Another problem of the In the 1993 Reflection, the ideas in one letter, he said. Reflection is the lack on the Bishops "cling to a few basic 
"Three particular sets of Bishops part to establish their principles that ought to shape ideas operating on the Bishops, moral voice. U.S. leadership." They do each sort of vying for 'write my "The tenor of the times reflect claim, however, for the first 
letter.' The letter that would be the possibility of so much of the time, "that there is a spiritu­
the moral equlivalence of de­terrible about to happen that it laity of peacemaking, " he said. terence for a new set of condi­is important that not just a This, according to Lopez, is a 
tions, it w6uld be essentially technical, political or scholarly recognition that we have en­more pastoral and theological voice emerge, but that a moral tered a new era. "Ten years af­and sp11ak to the theology of voice play a role," he said. ter saying that peacemaking is peace, and it would have much In the 1993 document, how­not an optional committment of more economic content and ever, "the moral point of view is faith," the 1993 document is deal much more with social one that leads us to have cau­the blue print for how that economic issues and the place tion about a potential for jsoJa­committment ought to be lived 
tionism." The bishops fear a out. It calls for a combination George Lopez, professor of Government and International Studies,
of the United States in a moral 
moral isolationism among speaks about the U.S. Catholic Bishops' letter, Pastoral Reflections
way in that kind of world," he said. Christians, if they do not ex-see REFLECTION/page 4 on Peace. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, December 8, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

You've never seen such a sight in your life 
Three blind mice .. . 
Three blind mice ... 
See how they run.. . 
Run all over the dorm! 
Run all over my room! 
I am sick of mice and I am not going to take it any­more! My roommates and I have begun to hone our 

predatory instincts and Michael O'Hara the mice are our prey. . . . 
t t Assr. V1ewpomr Eduor
And I wt.11 resor o any­thing that will work. 

So far I have tried everything from darts to a five-iron. While those didn't work at least I got to work on my golf. 
What did work was the simple, traditional mouse trap, but they're $1.12 for two at Target. Who wants to spend that kind of money? 
Besides, averaging one kill a day will really wear one of those suckers out. At least I found a use for the old, dried-up, congealed dining hall cheese. Ten minutes after baiting a trap with some of the dining hall's exquisite import­ed cheddar, a mouse was caught. Apparently the mice are starved or don't have much taste. 
The room mouse kill board presently stands at two, but I know there are more. 
I have seen them already, mocking me. 
The first kill was a grand celebration. Mickey, as we like to call him, came out at his traditional hour, right at 2 a.m. (the mice love to party after parietals). A loud snap broke the relative calm of the evening, up we jumped, and that was that. We took a few snapshots of him then disearded the carcass into the dump­ster (as many of you are probably eating while reading this. I won't go into any graphic detail). We thought we were done with it. Oh, how wrong we were. 
Yet, the mice do have some positive charac­teristics. At least they didn't come out during our SYR this past Saturday and cause chaos, that's one. Two, I have convinced myself that they played a role in our dorm not being a vic­tim of a dorm sex change. Notre Dame wouldn't subject its women to the vermin, would it? 
And then I got to thinking ... wait a minute, don't rodents carry disease? Aren't they responsible for the spread of such things as rabies, bubonic plague and that supposed Navajo thing that was discovered in the Southwest? So much for getting a good night's sleep ... anywhere in the dorm. The mice are over-running the building. 
I think I'll stop paying the room part of my twenty-some thousand dollar expense until I get adequate living conditions. 
Why don't I simply have maintenance handle the problem? The last time I needed mainte­nance and support services to handle some­thing it only took five weeks of going through the proper channels to get a response, and this was simply to get a bed for one of us four to sleep on. If I refused to pay rooming fees until something was done, I could probably go through the rest of my undergraduate educa­tion (two and a half years) rooming for free. 

Perhaps when the University (hopefully) ren­ovates Morrissey this summer they will do more than place a fresh coat of paint on the walls and change the light bulbs. Maybe not. 
Maybe I'll just get a cat. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sarah Doran Production Nancy Dunn Christopher Mullins 
Sports Karhie Young Rian Aikey Accent Viewpoint Lisa Monaco 
Michael O'Hara Carolyn Monaco Carolyn Wilkens Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan Scott Mendenhall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. ThC' Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Increased applications possibly due to Rudy 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
"Rudy," the heartwarming story of a walk-on to the Notre Dame football team, is packing them in at Holy Cross College. Applications to the junior col­lege have soared 33 percent for the spring semester and 64 percent for the fall semester, said Vincent Duke, direc­tor of admissions for the 475-student Catholic college. "We can't contribute all of this increase to "Rudy" but short­ly after the movie was released. phones started to ring and we had a flood of calls for three to four days after . the movie was released," Duke said. Holy Cross usually receives about 400 to 450 applications each year. About 30 graduates of the two-year college are admitted to neighboring Notre Dame each year. Notre Dame also has seen an increase in applications, but officials said they are not sure if it is because of "Rudy." 
U.N. takes stance on human rights' abuses 
UNITED NATIONS 
A major U.N. committee unanimously deplored what it said were widespread violations of human rights in Burma and urged the unconditional release of Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. The General Assembly's Third Committee, which deals with social issues, rapped Burma's military rulers Monday night for refusing to yield power to a democratically elected parlia­ment. The 184-nation General Assembly is expected to follow the committee's recommendation and rebuke the Rangoon government. The Assembly has adopted resolu­tions increasingly critical of Burma since 1991. In 1990, Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy swept the vote in parliamentary elections. The party was not allowed to assume power, and she remains under house arrest for a fifth year. The committee urged her release and that of all politieal prisoners in Burma. 
INDIANA Weather 
Wednesday, Dec. 8 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperalures 



Surgical gloves or condoms could be killers 
WASHINGTON 
Natural rubber latex, the stretchy material used in such items as surgical gloves and condoms, is causing wide­spread allergic reactions ranging from mild irritation to life-threatening shock, a dermatologist reports. Allergy reactions often develop from an increased exposure to a substance, Brancaccio said, and the AIDS epidemic has caused increased use of latex. Most health care workers now use a new set of gloves for each patient they treat, and there is a national safe sex campaign to use latex condoms to avoid exposure to the AIDS virus. Brancaccio said more cases are being reported of both male and female sex partners experiencing allergic reactions to latex condoms. The most common effect is a swelling, or edema, in the genitals, he said, but "in one case a woman went into anaphylactic shock after intercourse using a rubber condom." In anaphylactic shock, a patient can within minutes develop shortness of breath, swollen lips and throat. and heart and breathing difficulties. No deaths have been reported. 
Don Ameche star of 'Cocoon' dies at age 8 5 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
Don Ameche. versatile leading man of 1930s and '40s films whose comeback in the 1980s brought him an Oscar as supporting actor in "Cocoon," has died of can­cer. He was 85. Ameche died Monday evening at his son's home in this upscale Phoenix suburb, said Marlow Hardy, who was handling arrangements for Messenger Mortuary. Ameche believed his Hollywood slide began when he refused a three-year extension on his Fox con­tract, but he remained active in television and theater until "Trading Places" returned him to movie fame. Two years later, he appeared in the fantasy "Cocoon," in which he played one of a group of Florida retirees who discover a fountain of youth created by extraterrestrials. His other, later films include "Coming to America," "Harry and the Hendersons," and "Oscar.". Ameche married his childhood sweetheart, Honore Prendergast, in 1932, and they had four sons and two daughters. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 8. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu.Weather. Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Athens Atlanta 
Boston Chicago Clevdand Dallas 
H  L  Jerusalem  59  45  Paris  48  45  
51  48  London  46  46  Philadelphia  53  40  
59  34  Los Angeles  69  50  Rome  63  43  
51  39  Madrid  55  39  Sc;mlc  46  39  
36  24  Minneapolis  28  17  Seoul  45  27  
37  34  Moscow  36  30  ToroniO  41  38  
65  40  New York  50  40  Wa~hingron, D.C.  51  42 

VIB Associated Press Graph/CsNet C1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
~~ ~ --~--·--~------~----~---~·~------~~--­
Wednesday, December 8, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS BRIEFS 
On anniversary of attack,
•rickets for the Garth Brooks member of the Notte Dame f~· Concert on February 12, 1994 ulty since 1ng. is a leader in at the Joyce Athletic and the use of pulsed laser and Convocation Center Arena at pulsed radiolysis techniques to 

Pearl Harbor is recalled 
Notre Dame will go on sale study the structure and dynam­Saturday 9 a.m. EST. Tickets ics of colloidal systems-which 
ByRON STATON had retracted from reality. We will be sold at Notre Dame are fme and uniform disper~. 
Associated Press appeared vulnerable and in­JACC Box Office and participat• sions of one substance within 
stead of choosing our battles, ing Ticketmaster locations fot another substance-and o 
PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii we let others chose for us," he 
$17.25 plus Ticketmaster ser­other similar systems. Thomas America must resolve to said. vice charge. To purchase tick­pioneered and· developed spec­never again become vulnerable Later, the ashes of a survivor ets. wristband numbers will he troscopic methods to measure to the type of attack that of the attack on the Arizona 
distributed at the JACC Arena in billionths and trillionths o plunged the country into war were to be entombed with his and participating Ticketmaster second reactions of reactive 52 years ago, the commander crewmates by divers. Grady locations on Thursday and species and ~xclted states in of the Pearl Harbor Naval Base Lee Nelson Jr. of Houston, who Friday from 9 a.m. until regu­the ecolloidaJ systems. Hi~ said Tuesday. spent 30 years in the Navy be­lar closing time each day while research mad~ photochemists "When I visit this memorial, I fore retiring in 1971, died last supplies last. This number will more aware of the usefulness~ feel the chill of regret being June. determine place in line. It does of colloidal systems in photo· nudged aside by a feeling of re­In a somber ceremony in not guarantee a ticket, only a chemical reactions. solve that such a tragedy never Washington, Secretary of place in line. Ticket buyers happen again," Rear Adm. Veterans Affairs Jesse Brown 
must return to the JACC before William Retz said aboard the laid a wreath at the Navy 
7:30 a.m. or other ticket loca­•The University of Notre Dame USS Arizona Memorial on the Memorial to honor those who 
tion before 8 a.m. EST. received $2.729,701 in grant$ anniversary of the Japanese died at Pearl Harbor. during September for the l:l\l~· attack. 
"These heroes are not un­
•J. Kerry Thomas, Nieuwland port of research and various A minute of silence was ob­known to us," Brown said. 
professor of chemistry and bio­programs. Research· funds served throughout the Pearl "They are known to us for their chemistry at Notre Dame, has totaled $1,186.891. The Harbor Naval Shipyard at 7:55 spirit, they are known to us for 
been named the 1994 recipient University also received a.m., the time the attack began. their greatness, they are known of the American Chemical $660,896 in grants during The quiet was broken by a to us for their sacrifice ... we Society Award in colloid or sur­October. Research grants for Hawaii Air National Guard unit love and honor them." 
face chemistry. Thomas, a October totaled $586,995. flying with an empty spot in a Brown placed a wreath at the "missing man" formation. foot of the Lone Sailor statue, a 
Aboard the memorial, repre­bronze work of a sailor in pea sentatives of veteran, patriotic coat and sailor's cap standing and civic organizations dropped in a stiff breeze with a duffel flowers into the water over the sack at his feet. sunken battleship Arizona, Attending the Washington where 1,102 crewmen remain ceremony were six witnesses of entombed. the Pearl Harbor attack. 
"The attack lasted only three Capt. Louis Detweiler re­hours but its impact has lasted membered a burst of machine a lifetime," Retz said. gunfire -from U.S. ships ­
"The bitter truth of that startling him during breakfast Sunday 52 years ago is that we on the cruiser St. Louis. 
See news happening? Call The Observer at 631-5323 
Board not 
•


censoring Revue 

By PATTI CARSON News Writer 
Student government is not censoring the Keenan Revue, said director of Student Activities Georgeanna Rosenbush at last night's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
I:IIJrljl1I1ll61ltJ;jl~!:I~[H­
.. Five Saint Mary's women 

met previously with the Keenan 
board not in an effort to c'ensor 
the popular show, but to bring 
about an awareness of issues 
from a woman's perspective," 
said Rosenbush. 
There was no malice in the 

intentions of the Keenan Revue 
board, she said. Students fail 
to see the difference between 
satire and reality and this was 
the concern we wanted to 
express. BOG is not trying to 
have the show banned, said 
Rosenbush. 
The Saint Mary's representa­

tives were very pleased with 
the board's receptiveness to 
BOG's concerns, she said. The 
Revue planners extended an 
invitation to a Saint Mary's se­
nior and/or a faculty member 
to be present during the plan­
ning of the show, said 
Rosenbush. 



Dorms to participate in parietal survey 
By JOSLIN WARREN Nikki Wellmann. "The exact number for 
Florida State weekend was 232 
"We pretty much know that on Friday night and 112 on 
Alumni, Siegfried, Keenan, they're not going to change the Saturday night which is more Howard and Walsh are the five hours but we'll have the infor­than we had all last year." said residence halls randomly cho-mation so in three or four years Council Co-Chair Chris 
they have documentation," said Canzoniero. 
News Writer 

1I!;I!IQjl f1 In;I'IfJSilll~[H II Wellmann. "We're just trying 
sen to partake in the revised parietal survey, according to Student Body Vice President 

ffit~r~d~~ IDrnni[f~r ~ID~~nt [~v~r1~nt ~r da~~ ~m~~~ 
--~~~~~e~~--­
---=~~~~e~~--
Tbursday al C:DD PID Sarin ~aam LaFarii!,L 

to be the voice of the students." 
The Book Fair will be han­dled in the same fashion as last year, said Grace Hall co­President AI Marchetti. Books can be brought to LaFortune in the Cavanaugh Room on next Thursday from 3-6 p.m. and to the Notre Dame Room next Friday from 12-4 p.m. 
This past weekend was the last weekend for Weekend Wheels and the number of stu­dents who have used this pro­gram in recent weeks has risen steeply. 
"This program is going to continue all next semester." 
Hall councils are being asked to donate money to the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund that is being set up in her memory. 
"It will be in her name to in­still in people's minds why she died, which was from drunk driving," said Lyons Hall co­President Jane Daly. 
Keenan Hall will be holding a midnight study break on next Monday night in their basement for all students who want to take a break from studying for finals. 
~pring Break Retreat 
at the 
Abbey of Gethsernani Trappist, Kentucky 
Departure Monday morning, March 8th from Notre Dame, returning to the University Thursday afternoon, March 11th. 

Ms. Cathie Lohmuller and Fr. Paul Doyle, CSC 
Retreat Directors 
Fr. Joe Ross, CSC 
Retreat Chaplain 
Sign-ups now through the end of the semester in the Library Campus Ministry Office 
Cost of retreat: $40.00 page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 1993 







New role for blacks in South Africa Despite Apple's policies, 
By TINA SUSMAN 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa 
Blacks took seats in govern­ment for the first time Tuesday to help steer the country to­ward democracy and end 341 years of white domination. 
Right-wing whites staged a theatrical bid to stress their op­position to reforms, but their seizure of an abandoned fort hundreds of miles away was dwarfed by the significance of the Transitional Executive Council's first meeting. 
"To be part of the TEC means the struggle we have engaged in over the years is bearing fruit," said the African National Congress' secretary-general, Cyril Hamaphosa, as he settled into a velvet chair. 
The council, composed of rep­resimtatives from the ANC, gov­ernment and other black and white groups, will serve as a government watchdog before the country's first multiracial elections April 27. 
Vested with wide powers to effectively veto government decisions, it marks the first time the black majority has had the power to affect the future from within the halls of gov­ernment. 
The election of a new Parliament in April will give blacks their first vote in na­tional affairs since Dutch set­tlers arrived in 1652. 
"Certainly the TEC is the final step in the process to bring about true democracy in South Africa," said the government's constitutional affairs minister, Hoelf Meyer, one of seven whites among the 32 politicians who met at the old President's Council chamber. 
Each of 16 parties sent two representatives. Three other parties planned to join the meetings later in the week. 
The President's Council, dis­banded earlier this year as part of President F.W. de Klerk's reforms, was used by past pres-

Reflection 
continued from page 1 
of virtues and visions, but does not give much help on how to get there, he said. 
The 1993 Reflection lacks a true pastoral challenge, he said. One pastoral direction, according to Lopez, is where the bishops say, we need new policies, new structures, new attitudes to resolve disputes, and address injustices. "Our call to conversion, to change our hearts, to reject violence and to love our enemies is a new one. But, they don't tell us how to do it." 
"It's unlikely that it will make it into the core course of Freshmen Seminars, like the 1983 Pastoral Letter did, but it is a document that bears our attention and one that I think could stimulate some good debates, even on campuses like our own," he said. 
This letter is written on the tenth anniversary of the 1983 Pastoral Letter, "The Challenge of Peace," which ten years after its publication, is still a matter of great significance. The Reflection, which will be published on Thursday, is a re­sponse to the changing condi­tions of the nuclear era in 1993. 
The lecture was entitled "Heflection on A II arvest of Justice Sown in Peace, the U.S. Bishop's Pastoral Reflections On Peace" 
idents as a rubber-stamp body to push through legislation that lacked sufficient support in Parliament. 
Past members included Clive Derby-Lewis, a prominent member of the pro-apartheid Conservative Party who is now on death row for the April mur­der of black leader Chris Hani. 
The Conservatives were among several groups absent from the Executive Council's first meeting. They have joined other right-wing white groups and the mainly black lnkatha Freedom Party in a boycott of the council, saying it evolved from negotiations hijacked by the ANC and de Klerk's gov­ernment. 
"It is a sad day for us," said the Conservatives' deputy leader, Willie Snyman, sitting dejectedly in his legislative of­fice, surrounded by boxes packed in preparation for the end of apartheid and his ca­reer. 
Snyman said he expected to leave government by Christmas to fight the reforms that are expected to usher in an ANC­led government after April's election. 


The Conservatives, the lulu­dominated Inkatha and smaller right-wing groups say the ANC will destroy their followers' cul­tures and languages. They have demanded guarantees of sover­eignty for ethnic groups, some­thing the ANC says would amount to another version of apartheid. 
Last-minute efforts late Monday to bring the holdouts into the Executive Council failed, but they were urged to join if they changed their minds. 
"Doors will continue to be opened," de Klerk told re­porters. "Every open door you don't walk through is another opportunity lost." 
De Klerk spoke shortly before leaving for Oslo, Norway, to ac­cept the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize, which he and ANC President Nelson Mandela are sharing for their joint efforts to end apartheid. Mandela arrived in Norway on Tuesday as the Executive Council met. 
The formation of the Executive Council emerged from nearly two years of often bitter negotiations on ending apartheid. 

county OKs tax package 
By SCOTT ROTHSCHILD 
Associated Press 
GEORGETOWN, Texas 
County commissioners re­versed themselves today, ap­proving a modified financial in­centive package for Apple Computer despite the compa­ny's policy of giving health ben­efits to the partners of gay employees. 
Williamson County commis­sioners voted 3-2 this morning to grant Apple some reim­bursements on taxes in ex­change for free right-of-way on future county improvements. The savings would help pay for a planned $80 million customer service center that would even­tu 
ally employ 1,700 people. 
The vote reversed a 3-2 deci­sion last week rejecting a $750,000 tax abatement for Apple. In the earlier vote, com­missioners said they opposed the abatements because the computer giant provides health benefits to the domestic part­ners of its gay and lesbian employees. 
Commissioner David Hays was the one who switched his vote today. However, in a state­ment he said his vote did not represent a switch in his val­ues. 
"Last week I was asked to vote to use taxpayer dollars to subsidize, and therefore, tacitly endorse a benefits policy with which I disagree. Today's vote does nothing of the kind," he said. 
The new deal offers Apple tax reimbursements, the total of which will be around the $750,000 Apple had sought in tax abatements. The difference is that the amount would be paid by Apple, then reimbursed back; an abatement would be a reduction in taxes paid in the first place. 
The new agreement also pro­vides that Apple will grant the county the right of way for any roads or other improvements the county may want to build on the site in the future. 
Lisa Byrne, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company was pleased with the pact. 

DOMINOS 
PIZZA 


271-0300 
® 

LARGE PIZZA 


PLUS TAX 
STORE HOURS 
SUN-TH 4:30-1 am 

FRI-SAT 4:30-2am 
CHEESE AND 1 TOPPING ADD'L TOPPINGS 1.00 EA 
FAST DELIVERY IN 30 MINS OR 


$3 • 00 OFF 
30 MINUTE 
30 MINUTE 
GUARANTEE
GUARANTEE 


IF LATE 
Now Hiring Drivers 
Vaild at this location only Expires 12/31/93 
Wednesday, December 8, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Denny attacker given 10 years 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

A judge gave the maximum 10-year sentence today to the black man convicted of vi­ciously beating white truck dri­ver Reginald Denny and at­tacking other motorists at the outset of last year's riots. 
"Each of these was an excep­tionally violent act perpetrated on exceptionally vulnerable people," Superior Court Judge John Ouderkirk said. 
Damian Williams, 20, will re­ceive at least two years' credit for time served since his arrest, and for good behavior since then, meaning he could serve eight years at most. With good behavior, Wi-lliams could be eli­gible for parole after serving more than three years more. 
The defense had asked for probation in the April 29, 1992, attacks on Denny and other motorists. 
But Ouderkirk told Williams: "It's intolerable in this society to attack and maim people be­cause of their race." 
Denny, nearly killed in the beating, had testified about the numerous skull fractures and operations he experienced and said he remembered nothing about the assault, in which a brick was thrown at his head. 
Williams' sentence inevitably invited comparisons to the 2 1/2-year federal prison terms given to two white policemen in the beating of black motorist Rodney King. 
"Some say these cases are legally different, but contextu­ally this says to blacks that the pattern of history continues," said the Rev. Cecil Murray, pas­tor of First AME Church, the city's largest black church. 
Carolyn Walters, the fore­woman of the jury that con-
SOUTH BEND RECORD & CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 12TH 10:00 AM-5:00PM ADMISSION $3.00 
AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 515 DIXIEW A Y N. US 31-33 NORTH 
SJ.OQ Of'F ADMISSION WITH TillS AD 
BUY. SELL. TRADE MUSIC COLLECTIBLES FROM TilE SO's • 60's • 70's • 80's • 90's 
LP's-CD's-45's-12 inch singles-imports posters-magazines-books-conctn photos -vid~o.'> t-shirts-cas . .uuu-pins-patches and much mort!! 
FOR DEALER INFO CAU • Blain at (616) 375·2776 DOOR PRIZES 
SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUCTION 
victed Williams -but acquitted him of an attempted murder charge that carried a possible life term -said the sentence was too harsh. 
As a precautions against pos­sible violence, police opened an emergency operations center and went on stand-by alert. 
Williams appeared unfazed by the sentence. He smiled and gave a thumbs-up sign to a friend in the audience, and grinned as he left the court, raising his hands above his head. 
His lawyer, Edi Faa!, said later that Williams grinned be­cause. he was relieved the trial was finally over. Faa! said he expected the long sentence. 
Before announcing the sen­tence, the judge played a video­tape of the riot attacks at Florence and Normandie av­enues in south-central Los Angeles. 
"The court has considered that this crime involved great violence and acts involving cru­elty, viciousness and cal­lousness," Ouderkirk said. As others beat Denny, he said, Williams "stood by with his weapon and waited to strike." 
The riots followed the acquit­
tal of four white policemen on 
most state charges in the 1991 
videotaped beating of King. 
Two of the four were later con­
victed of federal civil rights 
charges. 

HOUSES FOR RENT 
1994-95 

4-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 
Call Laurie McKelvey 287-4989 

Be Part of the Holiday Action! 


MOVIE NIGHT 
Come see your favorite X-mas classics. 
9:00pm 
10:00 pm 
11:30 pm 
12:30 am 2:15am 2:45am 

Rudolph A Christmas Story The Year Without a Santa Claus Home Alone Frosty The Grinch 
December 11, 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Have Fun and Get in the Holiday Spirit Absolutely FREE! 

Elders: Legalizing drugs would cut crime rate 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders said Tuesday she be­lieves the United States would "markedly reduce our crime rate" by legalizing drug use. The White House immediately distanced itself from her re­marks. · 
Some Republicans and con­servatives accused her of un­dermining the war on drugs and said she should be fired. 
Elders, fielding questions at the National Press Club, said legalization has worked for one or two other countries where crime went down without drug use going up. 
Elders told the press club that '-'60 percent of most of our vio­lent crimes are associated with alcohol or drug use. 
"Many times they're robbing, stealing and all of these things to get money to buy drugs. I do feel that we would markedly reduce our crime rate if drugs were legalized," she said. 
Elders, a former Arkansas health commissioner, said she does not know all "the ramifi­cations" of such a move but be­lieves it warrants further study. 
The White House responded 
quickly. 
"The president is against le­
galizing drugs and he's not in­
terested in studying the issue," 
responded White House Press 
Secretary Dee Dee Myers. 
"She expressed a personal 
opinion.... It's been made clear 
to her that the president does­
n't share that view," added 
Myers. 
Elders "has made similar radical statements about legal­izing drugs in the past," said Sen. Don Nickles, R-Okla. "I think President Clinton made a serious mistake when he ap­pointed Dr. Elders as surgeon general. She should be re­placed." 
Nickles added, "To have a top administration official talk about legalizing drugs is a sig­nal that the White House is raising the white flag of surren­der and giving up the war on drugs." 
"Americans must be wonder­ing if the surgeon general is hazardous to our health," said Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., in a written state­ment. "I am relieved that the president has disassociated himself from Dr. Elders' re­marks, but remain concerned with this administration's com­mitment to fighting drugs." 
"This is just the opposite of 
what she should be doing as 
America's top doctor," said 
Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind. 
Coats, a longtime Elders' crit­
ic, said, "Her positions on a 
variety of issues -condom dis­
tribution, early sex education 
and now drug legalization ­
are so far outside the main­
stream they are simply radi­
cal," said Coats. Legalizing 
drugs would have "tragic con­
sequences" for the nation's 
youth. 
The political right bitterly op­
posed Elders' nomination be­
cause of her strong support for 
sex education and abortion 
rights. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough by 5p.m., Thursday, December 9. Contact Meredith at 631-7471 for more information. 
Bai Ju's 
Chinese Restaurant & Carry Out 
NOW DELIVERS! 
4 p.m. to 
7 days a week 
a.m. 

271-0125 
Minimum $10 purchase, Free Delivery 
eaturing: 
•Chicken, 
Shrimp or Vegetable Fried Rice 

•Sweet 
& Sour Chicken 

•Cashew 
Chicken, Mongolian Beef 

•Egg 
Rolls, Fortune Cookies 



~ -~ ·~·~--­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 1993 

Despite U.S. presence, conflict goes on in Somalia 
By NEJLA SAMMAKlA lence, civil war, devastation A.1SOCiatcd Press and famine. What started as an American MOGADISHU, Somalia Bffort to savB lives turned into 
There is food in Somalia deadly street battles, entan­now, and bright-eyed, laugh­glement in clan politics, a hunt ing children. But a year after for Aidid by U.S, Army 
U.S. troops landed, a haze of . Rangers. and, finally. 
anarchy and clan conflict Washington's decision to with· obscures the future in a land draw. where the incredible is nor· In Mogadishu, American sol­mal. diers and other foreign troops 
A summer of battles in mainly sit in fortified com­Mogadishu between U.N. pounds, seeing few if any troops and supporters of Somalis. They train in urban Mohamed Farrah Aidid has warfare for possible rescue 
overshadowed the success of 

missions in the warren of nar­the mercy mission in relieving row streets. But much of their hunger and restoring calm time is spent fighting boredom elsewhere in Somalia. by playing cards or volleyball. 
Pictures of Somalis dragging Perhaps the crowning irony a U.S. soldier's body through came a few days ago when the i'ltreets hit Americans in Aidid -no longer reviled as the gut, and President Clinton the man responsible for the ordered U.S. troops withdrawn deaths of American fighting by March 31. Other nations men -was flown by a U.S. also plan to pull out, and many plane to attend talks in people fear Somalia's clan fac­Ethiopia. tions will not settlt} their differ· The president of Ethopia is 
ences before the deadline. meeting with Somali faction That could mean a slide back leaders in an effort to set up a into the cycle of increasing vio-peace conference. 
Standoff latest GATT stumbling block 
By DIRK BEVERIDGE 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 
An American-European standoff on movies and air­planes is the latest stumbling block for a world trade deal. but the two sides said Tuesday they still have time to make peace before the final deadline. 
The failure to resolve differ­ences over import restrictions on movies and TV shows and government subsidies for jet­liner manufacturers came after the United States and European Community agreed on cutting farm subsidies. The latter dis­pute had held up the world trade talks for years. 

With the clock ticking away to the Dec. 15 deadline for com­pletion of broader 116-nation talks on lowering trade barri­ers. negotiators criticized Washington and the EC for not settling all their differences. 
Dec. 15 is the last day President Clinton can notify Congress of a proposed trade agreement under "fast-track" rules barring lawmakers from attaching amendments that could kill the accord. 
The head of the General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Peter Sutherland, de­scribed the trans-Atlantic squabbles as "incredible folly." 
But after meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor and his EC counterpart, Sir Leon Brittan. Sutherland acknowledged a partial agree­ment by America and Europe on several disputed issues would at least allow other na­tions to resume bargaining. 
"I am sure they will urgently continue to try to resolve their outstanding differences," Sutherland said in a statement. 
Government funds Shultz's defense 
By JAMES ROWlEY 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The government must pay $281,397 that lawyers billed former Secretary of State George Shultz since last year while his role in the Iran­Contra affair was examined by a special prosecutor. a court ruled Tuesday. 
Shultz was entitled to reim­bursement because he became a subject of the investigation by Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh in late 1991. a special panel of three federal appellate judges held. 
The court approved <til but $5,397 of the legal bill submit­ted by attorney Lloyd Cutler. The judges chided the Washington lawyer-lobbyist for staying in a $394-a-night hotel when he knew the bill would eventually be submitted to the taxpayers. 
Cutler, a former White House counsel in the Carter adminis­tration, billed Shultz $370 an hour. His partner, Howard Willens charged $310 an hour. 
The court noted tartly that the hourly fees "will not appear reasonable to most of the tax­payers who ultimately bear the burden of this award." 
But the special court recalled that it approved similar fees when two other members of Reagan's Cabinet, Attorney General Edwin Meese III and Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan, were investigated by independent counsels in the mid-1980s. 
"To the best of our knowl­edge, legal fees did not decline between those years and 1991­92" when Shultz hired Cutler. 
Walsh concluded his investi­gation of the Iran-Contra affair in August. The same special court last week announced that it would soon release Walsh's final report on the affair with few, if any. deletions. 
Shultz hired Cutler in January 1992 after he was informed by a prosecutor in Walsh's office that his status in the investiga­tion had changed from "wit­ness" to "subject," -a person whose conduct is in the scope of the grand jury's investiga­tion, the court opinion said. 
This phase of Walsh's inves­tigation was to determine whether Shultz and former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger had lied when they 
./Airport Tr.,nsre~ 
./College Tours fomous VIP Party Package ./ On-Site Professional Stllff ond Office ./ D1scounrS and morel 
./ Pro-Be~~ch Volleyball ./ S<rvc over S150 with our fomous party progll!ml 
Indianapolis and 
said they knew little about U.S. arms sales to Iran in 1985, sources told the Associated Press in April 1992. 
Weinberger was indicted in June 1992 on charges of lying to Congress and prosecutors and trying to conceal notes he had taken at meetings when the arms sales were discussed by Shultz, President Beagan, Vice President Bush and others. 
Later, as president. Bush par­doned Weinberger last Christmas Eve along with five others involved in the sale of 
U.S. arms to Iran and the di­version of profits to Nicaraguan rebels when such aid was barred by law. 
The independent counsel statute. which Congress al­lowed to expire last year, allows reimbursement of legal expenses of government offi­cials who become subjects but are not indicted during an investigation by a special prose­cutor. 
The law also requires that to receive reimbursement for legal expenses, the person was the subject of an investigation that would not have taken place "but for" the requirements of the independent counsel law. 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus " Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Santa and Mrs. Claus Will Be Visiting 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
On Wednesday December 15th From 3-5 p.m. Storytime From 3:30 -4:00 


Wednesday, December 8, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Documents reveal U.S. hid testing 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The federal government con­cealed the existence of more than 200 nuclear weapons tests since the 1940s, including some where radiation was released 
into  the  environment,  the  
Energy  Department  ac­ 
knowledged today.  

The department, releasing a series of documents as a first step towards more openness about its nuclear weapons pro­gram, said that 204 nuclear tests were conducted at its Nevada test site and never re­vealed to the public because the government was fearful of dis­closing information to the Soviet Union. 
In addition, the department disclosed new data about the explosion size of 48 other tests conducted in the Pacific be­tween 1945 and 1990. 
Private researchers long have speculated that the government had conducted secret tests, but the number given by the department today is con­siderably larger than previously thought. Before today's announcement, the government 
Mob• 

Planning on attending the Cotton Bowl? Why not stay at the Courtyard? Minutes from the Cotton Bowl Minutes from West End/Market Place Dallas• hotest night spot 
$99 

per night 
SGL/DBL Occupancy includes Two for Breakfast 


COURIYAI~Il 
~~arrtott 

2150 Market Center Blvd Dallas, Texas 
(214)653-1166/(800)321-2211 
Rates subject to availability. Some restrictions may apply. Not applicable to groups. Advance reservations required. 
had announced 826 nuclear tests since 1945. 
Energy secretary Hazel O'Leary said the nuclear test data is "just a beginning to the process" of releasing hundreds of formerly classified docu­ments and data from the de­partment's nuclear weapons program. 
The department also planned to release information on the quantities of weapons grade plutonium stockpiled at gov­ernment facilities and promised to reveal information about experiments on humans who were deliberately exposed to plutonium radiation more than 40 years ago. 
O'Leary said she planned, within seven months, to release more information about the experiments conducted on 18 people in an attempt to de­termine the effect of plutonium radiation. 
She also said that more de­
tails would be released by next 
June on an estimated 800 ex­
periments conducted on more 
than 600 individuals as part of 
a weapons program over the 
years. 
The existence of these exper­iments have previously been disclosed in a congressional re­port and other documents, but few details are known. 
O'Leary said she was "appalled, shocked and deeply saddened," to learn about the experiments on the 18 individ­uals, who, she said, did not know the extent of the health hazard. These experiments have also been reported previ­ously. 
The Energy Department did not elaborate on any environ­mental effects of the formerly disclosed 204 tests. 
O'Leary said the department was beginning a systematic de­classification of documents and also was easing the often cum­bersome process by which in­formation would be made avail­able. 
Speaking earlier on NBC, O'Leary called today's release "a very big deal, but it is of course just a foot in the bath­tub," since the Energy Department has some 32 mil­lion pages of classified docu­ments on testing and produc­tion. 
Private researchers and nu­
clear weapons proliferation ex­
perts have kept their own 
rough count on weapons tests 
and plutonium inventories. 
Jan. 1, 1994! 
Astronauts install camera in Hubble Telescope 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Two astronaut-mechanics installed a "beautiful, spanking new" camera in the Hubble Space Telescope today, com­pleting the first step in opening the instrument's eyes to the fringes of the universe. 
Step 2 comes tonight. 
Working more than 360 miles above Earth, Endeavour crew­men Jeffrey Hoffman and Story Musgrave deftly pulled out Hubble's old camera like a dresser drawer and slid in the new one, a 620-pound unit the size of a baby grand piano. It took them 2 1/2 hours to make the swap, nearly an hour less than in practice. 
The new $100 million wide­field planetary camera has cor­rective mirrors to compensate for Hubble's flawed primary mirror, which had left the tele­scope nearsighted. 
"Ah, look at that baby," Hoffman, an astronomer, said when he opened the container in which the new camera was carried into space. "Beautiful, spanking new. We'll take some nice pictures with that." 
Hubble's guidance and power systems were replaced during two earlier spacewalks, on Sunday and Monday. Today's excursion makes it three suc­cesses in a row; two more spacewalks are on tap. 
"Every day it's becoming more and more like 'Can you top this?"' Mission Control told the astronauts as they wrapped up their nearly seven-hour space walk. 
"We know that we've been incredibly lucky so far," said shuttle commander Richard Covey. "We hope that our luck holds out." 
Spacewalk No. 4, due to begin late tonight, involves the installation of another set of corrective optics. The $50 mil­lion unit, which is the size of a phone booth and contains coin­size corrective mirrors, should improve the focus of Hubble's three other science instru­ments. 
Astronomers won't know whether the new optics fixed Hubble's myopia for weeks, be­cause of the painstaking testing and aiignment needed. The $1.6 billion telescope was launched in April 1990. 
Once the final optical unit is installed, "Will we be ecstatic? Of course. Will we party? No, we'll wait," said Hubble pro­gram scientist Edward Weiler. 
Hoffman rode on the end of 
Endeavour's robot arm to re­
place the camera, as he did 
during the first spacewalk on 
Sunday. Musgrave hung to the 
telescope, anchored in the 
cargo bay, by foot restraints. 
The work was conducted in 
near-darkness to prevent dam­
age to the camera from sun­
light; the spacewalkers had 
only the illumination from 
lamps on their backpacks and a 
flashlight that was shined on 
them from inside the cockpit. 
The removed unit had four 
wide-field cameras to detect 
distant objects and four plane­
tary cameras to make high-res­
olution studies of planets, 
galaxies and stars. The re­
placement has only three of the 
former and one of the latter, to 
save money. 
Addam's Family Values (PG13) 12:30,2:15,2:45, 4:30,5:00, 7:00, 7:30, 9:15, 10:00 
A Perfee1World (PG13) 1:15,. 
4:15, 7:15, 10:15 
The Beverly Hillbillies (PG) 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 
The Nlgh1mara Before Christmas (PG) 1 :00. 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 The Three Musketeers (PG) 2:00, 4:30, 7:15, 9:45 
Josh & S.A.M. (PG13) 2:45. 5:00 
Malice (R) 7:15, 9:30 Rudy (PG) 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 Mrs. Doubtlire (PG13) 1:30, 4:15, 7:00,9:45 
i~f9~~~=
'-.-~ ! __ 0·--­INOTRE DAME iiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiii 
I Montogo 11-.ry J....,.,..  "-·~419  
Negrll Ja111o.ICG  '~ $449  
Cancun Mexlce  •~ $439  
Dtlyfen• aoach, FL  •~ $149  
Pton-City a..ch, FL  •~$129  

Local Contacts: Angle Walker @634-4659 Mike Cloonan @634-4451 Michael Roskell @634-1121 

120 North Aur.ra St., lthoca, NY 141i50 
1-BOll-648-4849 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, December 8, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OfFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2 I 9) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News E.ditor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Stcph Goldman Spons Editor ...................• George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barch Photo Editor .................................Jake Peters OTS Dircctor ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary'• F.ditor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion ofcith!'r institution. The news is reported as accurately and obje<.:tivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary"s Editor. Commentaries. lcrt!'rs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily rhose of l11e Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­mun.ity anJ lO all r!'adcrs. The free expression of varying opinion.s rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Producrion 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Anti-depressants do help people 

· 
Dear Editor: 

A few points need to be clari­fied in response to Eric Huethling's Inside Column on anti-depressants (The Observer, Dec. 3, 1993). 
Ruethling deserves credit for distinguishing chronic depres­sion from the "shifting and tem­porary bouts with the blues that we all suffer," for distin­guishing therapeutic use of anti-depressants from their possible abuse, and for distin­guishing other anti-depressant medieations from Prozac, the possible side effects of which are currently in debate. 
Huethling's suggestion, how­ever, that "one could, before the interview or that dream date, pop a Prozac and become Mr. Saturday Night, instead of the 'normal' person they are," reveals a serious misunderstanding of how the drug works. 
But I write not to take issue with Huethling's main point-that Prozac could conceivably be abused-but rather with the misconceptions that might in­advertently be perpetuated by some of his assertions, as well as by the misleading title ("Anti-depressants Are Not The Answer"). 
Huethling states that anti-de­pressant medication "works its magic," that users take it to "improve their character," that it "could, ideally, create a new personality" and "alleviate the problems of a mundane melan­choly self." I'm afraid that im­plicit in such language-or at Ieast what might be inferred from it-is the assumption that chemical treatment is either a quick cure, an escape, or an ar­tificial personality enhancer. 
This erroneous assumption 

0 '-:0.-~"0' 4to9.-_
t): ,-, ....,., ~' -:Jl-.(1 . /((_.fiQ -~ ry:_f>-0 '-f) ~t7-:QI­:~ ~ ~~: ~~-· -~_::.~0,~¥; 
-~--,-,1.$)­
-~~: t".f!!.: · 
J~~ ~ 
~ -:~.,11 -~_; · -~-:;;t~ 
,-!:?:;.­, /, , · 
_ ­· ' 
tends to go hand in hand with some all too common miscon­ceptions about mental and emotional disorders: that only physical illnesses are "real"; that acknowledgment of a men­tal or emotional problem is a sign of weakness; and that such problems can and must always be solved "on one's own." 
Whether or not Huethling shares these prejudices-and I'll assume he does not-I think it wise to address them, given their pervasiveness. 
Anti-depressant medication is not an anesthetic that allows users to ignore their problems, nor does it magically alleviate problems that the users could 
h 1 d .. h · ..
ave so ve_ on t mr o~. 
Some disorders by their very nature render the sufferer un­~ble to func~i?,n I_lormally or 
snap out of It wtthout. treat­ment. Drug therapy IS one mea~s. of correctin~ _a disabling co~ditiOn, a conditiOn people netther choose nor acquue through weakness. Its purpose is to restore sufferers of de­pression to their former, healthier selves and enable them to work toward solving their problems as non-sufferers do. 
The fact is that many people suffer from emotional or men­tal disorders, some temporary and some lifelong. Some disor­ders are caused by congenital far.tors such as chemical imbal­ance in the brain; others may be acquired as, for example, re­sponses to traumatic events. In the past, various disorders have been explained as demonic pos­session or God's punishment for sin. 
Today the prejudice tends to take more subtle forms, such as branding people who seek treatment through therapy or medication as emotional weak­lings too lazy to "deal with" ev­eryday problems. In both cases, misunderstanding of an illness fosters a misconception that, though widespread, is nei­ther accurate nor compassion­ate. Huethling asks, "Is it wrong to-in essence-become some­one new in order to receive an advantage that their 'old self would not have?" In response, we might ask the same ques­tion about the use of penicillin, heart surgery and contact lens­es. 
BRIAN RILEY 
English Graduate Student OffCampus 
The football team needs student support in Dallas 
Dear Editor: 
After reading several articles about the bowl game scenario, I felt the need to express my opinion on the situation. 
We are all disappointed that our football team will not be given the chance to play for the national title on January 1. Most of us feel the we are one of the best, if not the best, team in the country. 
With various criticism circu­lating both on campus and throughout the country, we tend to forget that the team has had a "dream" season, so to speak. The Irish have single­handedly put every sports writer in America to shame. They said we couldn't beat Michigan and Stanford and Florida State; some even gave Pitt a credible chance to beat us. 
The football team managed to beat all the odds and present the nation with a legitimate claim for the national title. And then we played Boston College. 
We all want to point the fin­ger or yell a name as we watch "our" national championship being given away. Perhaps we have a right to be mad that the bowl coalition makes it impos­sible for a ND/West Virginia match-up. And I can fully un­derstand why no one wants to go back to Dallas. As a native of the city, I can safely guarantee bad weather and rude Aggie fans. 
However, we should not pack away our school spirit and sim­ply wait for next season with fingers crossed. 
We don't send a very good message by saying that we won't go to the game if they are not playing who or where we want them to. In fact, we are not even going to have a pre­bowl game pep rally on campus because of concern that no stu_. 
' However, we should 
not pack away our school spirit and simply wait for next season with 
fingers crossed. We don't send a very good message by saying that we won't go to the game if they are not playing who or where we want them to.' 
Kathleen Lynch 
dents would show to support the team. 
The football players have worked inr.redibly hard to give us such a memorable season. None of us can fully compre­hend the sacrifices the players have made and the devotion they have for Notre Dame and the student body. 
If we show a lack of spirit for the bowl game, then we simply prove what the country said about us after the Boston College game: that Notre Dame students are fair weather fans. And no matter what the weath­er in Dallas, we all know that the Irish will go out fighting. 
KATHLEEN LYNCH 
Sophomore Breen-Phillips Hall 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

''Women are wiser than men because they know less and under­stand more." 
-James Stephens, poet 

-
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, December 8, 1993 page 9 
SUSIE•s BEDTIME STORIES 
All I w-ant for Christ111as 
Little Susie peeked through one eye to make sure that everyone was indeed asleep. When 
she felt that she was in the clear, she snuck down the stairs to wait for Santa Claus. 
Every Christmas for the past several years Little Susie had waited up for Santa Claus. Yet she always feel asleep at the precise 


time that Santa came 
Kenya Johnson 

down the chimney. 
"Not .this year," said Accent Editor Little Susie. 'This year I'm talking to Santa, face to face." 
She plopped down in her father's favorite chair and began nibbling at the cookies and milk she had left for Santa. She began singing Christmas carols to herself when she heard a noise on the rooftop. 
"It's Santa! He's really here," Susie yelled. 
Little Susie hid behind the chair as Santa emerged from the chimney. The round-faced, pink-nosed man checked the house to make sure no one was around. 
Santa began to take gifts out of his large sack: "One for Mommy, one for Daddy and one for Little Susie," he said aloud. One!, Susie thought to herself. He must be kid­ding! 
But Santa was serious, As he turned to leave, he grabbed a cookie and a sip of milk. 
"Hold it right there," Susie yelled from behind the couch. "Put that cookie down you theif, those are for Santa." 
Santa, startled by Little Susie, could barely speak. "But child," he finally said, "I am Santa Claus." 
"No you're not. Santa would have left a lot more presents than that," Susie yelled. Santa nodded his head in understanding and sat down in the chair. "Come here Little Susie. Sit on my lap and tell me what you wanted for Christmas." Susie decided to give Santa another chance. 
Maybe this time he'll get it right. 
She sat on his lap and began her long list o wanted gifts. " ... and the new talking Barbie, and Lite Brite, and a huge stuffed animal..." 
When Susie was finished, she looked towards Santa and was surprised by what she saw. Santa had a frown on his face the size of Texas. 
"What's wrong Santa," Susie asked. "Do you need me to repeat it?" "For heaven's sakes, no," Santa said. "That's an awful lot to want in one day Susie." 
"But it's what I want," Susie whined. 
"I understand, but what about other children who want stuff too," he asked. "So, give it to them," Little Susie said. "It's not that easy," Santa said. "Years ago, I 
used to give children like you everything they asked for. I thought it would make them happy. But many times, I would run out of gifts and not be able to give to other kids, especailly the poor ones. They would end up with nothing at all." 
"You didn't give them anything!!!" Susie 
exclaimed. 
"I couldn't. Other kids, who already had so 
much good stuff, would alwasy ask for a lot o 
gifts, just like you did," Santa explained. "Once I 
made my way into the city, I would have no 
more gifts for the people who needed them 
most -people who don't have turkey for 
Christmas dinner, or new Christmas dresses. 
This year I decided to change all that -I'm 
giving to the poor. But that means I have to cut 
back on giving so many gifts to children like 
you, who already have so much." 
Little Susie thought about what Santa said. 
She recalled just the other day, the two children 
she saw, dressed in rags, playing in the street. 
They probably won't get anything for Christmas ifI get all that I want. 
"Santa I don't want all those things. I have 
too much already. Please make sure the poor 
people have a good Christmas this year," Susie 
said. 
''I'll do my part," Santa said. "But the rest o 
the world has to do their part too." 
Kenya Johnson is Accent Editor of The Observer. 1/er columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent . 
Student Power 
TEC Consulting & Co. uses classroom learning to help small businesses succeed 

By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Notre Dame's Entrepreneurs Association has created and developed the TEC (The Entrepreneurs Club) Consulting & Co. firm which serves regional small businesses by providing these fledgling companies with a stu­dent engagement team whose primary objective is to develop and implement strategies to help the client, small business owners. 
The mission of the firm is to provide low-cost services to help small busi­nesses. The organizers of the firm believe it is necessary to support com­munity entrepreneur ship by offering their time and energy to promote de­velopment. 
"TEC assists entrepreneurs to run their business and helps them to achieve their goals," said Brendan Heatherman, President of TEC Consulting & Co. "It also gives us the chance to get hands on experience in business and to learn how to be an en­trepreneur." 
Although TEC is hoping to expand in the future, at the present time the company locates its clients through the Omniplex. The Omniplex is a busi­ness incubator located in an old beer factory in South Bend in which bud­ding entrepreneurs have bought offices in and share the expenses of secretaries and other office expenses 
The consulting firm was the idea of Gene Sheikh, President of The Entrepreneurs Association, Brendan Heatherman and Eric Makowski, Vice­President of TEC. The evolution of TEC commenced when Sheikh began a student advisory board with local businesses in which students could observe how local businesses ran. One of the companies which had a student advisory board was the Omniplex 
The Omniplex gave the student advi­sory board an office. From there, TEC grew to become an entity which actu­ally helped the companies they worked with, instead of merely being the learning experience of the student advisory boards. 
Students are the employees of TEC. 
Their classroom learning is supple­
mented with practical experience by 
actually creating marketing cam­
paigns, putting company books in 
order and giving financial advice to 
small businesses which are just get­
ting started. 
An example of how the employees of 
TEC, who are Notre Dame students, 
implement their classroom learning in 
the business community is the 
marketing and financial program they 
are presently creating for Sundogs, a 
new company which consists of an 
Arizona man specializing in sandblast­
ing. 
Before TEC Sundogs only obtained 
business through word of mouth. 
"There was no marketing, no financial 
management, so now TEC is working 
determining a target market and cre­
ating a marketing brochure," said 
Heatherman. 
Presently the team working on this project is developing a marketing brochure both in color and in black and white. A member of the team, Eric Hupfer, gave credit for the brochure idea. the technical computer skills and the ability to manage and market perspective businesses to a management class taught by Herbert True. 
photos courtesy of Notre Dame Entrepeneur Club 

In order to increase its business, TEC is currently assisting Sundogs, the owner of which is pictured here. 
The students who are involved in TEC are taking on a great deal of responsibility, said Sheikh. The stu­dents set there own goals and if the strategies they use to spur a compa­nies growth fail, the business fails at the fault of the students. It is risk tak­ing. 
Presently there are 40 to 50 mem­bers of TEC. "We are looking for any­one who is willing to do their job and work hard. It is necessary to be enthusiastic and want to see entrepre­neurs succeed in the community," said Heatherman. 
At the present time TEC is working to assist eight small businesses, with two potential projects and TEC is hop­ing to continue growing, said Heatherman. 
Also working with SCORE (Service Corps of Retried Executives), TEC is hoping to combine the resources of the retired people with the fresh ideas of the students in order to maximize the benefits of the clients, said Sheikh. 
TEC has been in existence for two months. "Already this new manage­ment consulting firm is a pilot pro­gram for other universities throughout the country, and it is hoping to fran­chise," said Sheikh. 


Summer project participants explq[~,:i'the injustice of poverty 

Since.. 1980, over orie thousand stu­dents have participated in Summer Service Projects, eight-week pro­grams <tdministered by the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns and designed to provi,de both alumni and students with an opportunity to ex­perience and discuss the injustice of poverty in the United States through direct service work. 
The projects, underwritten by Notre Dame alumni clubs and the James F. Andrews Scholarship Fund, are offered in cities nationwide, and open to all undergraduates at Notre Dame. Local alumni clubs are largely responsible for choosing the project sites, and for providing both housing and moral support during the eight· week experience. 
Seeing the value in experiential learning, the C.S.C. staff and project , supervisors encourage participants to reflect on their work in the form of 
jourf\als, and to form relationships with the people they serve and the other service providers with whom they come in contact. Upon their return to campus in the fall, students participate in one of two theology classes designed to enable partici­pants to reflect with each other and integrate the experience into their lives. 
Applications for the Summer Service Projects are now available at the Center for Social Concerns. Interested students are encouraged to pick up literature before the end of the semester, and consider the ex­perience over Christmas break. Informational meetings will be held in January. Applications are due in early February. For more informa­tion, please call Sue Cunningham at the C.S.C., 631-5293. 

~------~---~----~------------~ 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 1993
-
define a tradition of their own, the simplest play in basketball, In fact, it looked like Notre not having one to fall back on a screen. matt Gotsch played Dame might never score.
Tradition Irish
like the Hoosier players do. solid but limited minutes, main­Indiana built a 10-0 lead in 
continued from page 16 
on the game's first possession led to an Alan Henderson slam dunk in a perfectly executed transition. Indiana ran off the next eight points and never looked back. 
To their credit, the Irish never quit, but they could never put together a sustained run either. Anytime Notre Dame crawled to within ten, Indiana's Brian Evans or Todd Leary would hit a key jumper or clear the boards to stop the Irish cold. Winning teams find someone and some way to get it done. 
Tradition plays a large part in college basketball. At Indiana, it seeps out of the floor, out from every red sweater in the stands, and out of the irritable white-haired coach standing on the sidelines screaming. oblivious to the fact that his team is up by 27 points. That too was the difference. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they are struggling right now to They stand half-way there: long on hustle, short on win­ning. 
The physical improvement was there. Hoover stepped up to control the offense when a leader was needed, scoring 19 points. Joe Ross pulled down nine boards and played solid post defense. 
The difference was, the Hoosiers do not make mental mistakes. 
Notre Dame's defense was decent if not spectacular. but the Irish hurt themselves by surrendering an absurd amount of points at the free throw line. Indiana shot a record number of free throws, making 37 of 50, and were in the double bonus with more than ten minutes left in each half. 
Some fouls are necessary, but many are plain stupid. This is a discernment many Irish players have yet to figure out. Joe Ross committed yet another pushing fould on what may be ly because he was saddled with foul trouble, picking up two reach-in fouls fifty feet away from the basket. 

In order to make the transi­tion from a hustling team to a winning team, Notre Dame has to eradicate these costly mental mistakes. 
In this area there was at least some hope. Freshman Admore hite followed an ill­advised player control foul with a pretty assist to Williams and a short jumper of his own, show­ing a resiliency to learn from and improve on his mistakes. 
In order to earn the victo­ries, all the players must get involved. Six Hoosiers were in double figures. They won. 
"They play real hard and aggressive," noted Ryan Hoover. "We have to get to a point where we play as hard or harder." 
Until then, the Irish must be content with watching the tra­dition elsewhere. 
continued from page 16 
Williams' tenacity, but nobody knows for sure because the coach declined to meet with the media after the game. 
Sophomore Ryan Hoover picked up some of the slack af­ter Williams left, scoring 1 0 of his 19 points in the last ten minutes to keep the final score somewhat respectable. 
"I was very impressed with Indiana, particularly that they came back and played hard af­ter a tough game Saturday against Kentucky," MacLeod said. 
It didn't take long to realize there would be no letdown. 
Indiana's Damon Bailey scooped up a loose ball on Notre Dame's first possession, led a 3-on-1 break and dished off to Henderson for a dunk. 
Joe Ross fouled Henderson on the play and he converted his free throw, giving the Hoosiers a 3-0 lead. 
Notre Dame never came back. 
the first four minutes before Williams hit a 3-pointer to end the drought. 
Williams scored Notre Dame's first 11 points before a Joe Ross layup cut Indiana's lead to 23-13 with 11 minutes left in the half. 
The Irish tried to clawed their way back to trail just 35­29, but the Hoosiers closed the half with a 19-7 run to open a 54-36 halftime lead. 
"They are an excellent team," MacLeod said. "They just rammed the ball down our throat in the first half. They had a ton of second shots and a ton of free throws because they are a very aggressive team." 
Indiana tied an Assembly Hall record with 50 free throw attempts. They converted 37. one short of the record. 
The Hoosiers lead grew to 30 in the final minutes before a late Irish spurt cut Indiana's fi­nal margin to 21. 
"They just overpowered us," MacLeod said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

LOST AT UNION STATION  LADIES NO MINI RING SAPPHIRE  BEER GAMES II (the book)  
NOTICES  Friday 1213, at Formal: Brown herringbone tweed  NEED ROOMMATE for spring '94 semester. Campus View apts. Call  10K $250 273-2725  Don't be a Scrooge! Be sure to wish your friends a Merry Christmas with  GREAT GIFT order NOW receive FREE Intellectual Beer Games,  
sportscoat; folded formal ticket  273-4941.  an Observer Classified/ Place your  Offensive Jokes! Send $8  
Typing  and paper in inner pocket;  ad Dec. 7, 8, or 9 for this Friday's  cash/check ($7 +$1 S&H)  
287-4082 ILOST & FOUND I  If you accidentally took it, please call. Brad x2041, 319 Stanford  Needed: ride to O'Hare 12118 and/or 1/9. X1305 Scott NEED A RIDE TO D.C. WILL  FOR SALE Plane ticket: S.Bend to Islip, NY on 12117 call x2383  issue (the last one for this semes­ter.) Stop by between Bam and 3pm on the third floor of Lafortune.  Shipped w/in 48 hrs COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: PO BOX 2456 AMHERST. MA 01004  
LOST AT UNION STATION  HELP WITH GAS AND TOLLS.  
Lost a gold and pearl pin  Friday 12/3, at Formal:  PLEASE CALL EMILY AT  KEVIN  #######Clothe the naked#######  
Between the Football Stadium and LaFortune via O'Shag and  Brown herringbone tweed sportscoat, 40L; folded formal ticket  634-2856  •••• AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE ............  Go to the checker in the right North Dining Hall,  If you know where I can buy the t­shirt "Why do all the trees bend to  
Neuwland Science.  and paper in inner pocket:  i need a ride to milwaukee  When you see your golden gift ­ the west?" Call Bevo at X2569  
If you accidentally took it,  for x-mas dec. 18. will pay gas  I am selling a one-way ticket that  take it box at all.  
If found. please call631-5243.  please call.  and tolls julie x27 41  leaves Saturday, 12118, from South  LOVING COUPLE HOPING TO  
Brad x2041, 319 Stanford  Bend to Denver, Colorado. My  Those last gifts were boring but  ADOPT "If you're looking for a  
Found: a Casio graphing  mother paid $202 for it, so that's  the 6th one will be,  home to bring your precious baby  
calculator in the student computer lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day  WANTED  Helpll Need a RIDE to Philly/NJ area for X-mas on Dec. 17. Will  what I'm asking. Call Colleen at x2702.  Something to remind you of Iowa and me.  to, we've been waiting very long for a miracle like you." Childless couple  
November 11 . Call Jarrad x4186  pay $$ Call Meaghan at x2773.  Stay where you are but walk down  dream of loving your baby. Notre  
Travel Abroad and Work. Make up  to the end.  Dame grads, lawyer dad, future full­ 
$25 REWARD. Return please, 1  to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching  Need a Ride? Going to Philly/NJ  Grab & Go Lady will be your best  lime mom, cozy home where wish­ 
brown envelope type glasses case.  basic conversational English  area on Dec. 17. Call Meg x2773  FOR SALE:  friend.  es come true, friendly suburb with  
with pocket clip. Front side has 2  abroad. Japan. Taiwan, and S.  2 piece sofa  children, relatives nearby. Medical.  
pockets containing a matched set silver in color Parker pen & pencil  Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No  FOR RENT  kitchen table & chairs entertainment center  Kristi M. Merry-XmasS the Girinch  legal, counseling. court approved living exp. paid. Confidential. Call  
each has gold pocket clips, pencil  teaching background or Asian lan­ free 19" color TV to anyone who  our attorney:  
has gold tip. Keepsakes. Lost in  guages required. For more informa­ Clean, safe Apt. Near NO  buys all  (708)957-6833.  
vincinity Library, Basilica, Grotto, S.  tion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584  755 South Bend Ave furnished  CHEAP I  Happy Holidays to all! !II/I  
Dining Hall last week. Contact  1 bedrm-240, efficiency-215,  John 277-4953  Selling Dec 19ticket-Midway to  
Steve 289-5242 after 8pm. or  NANNY:ND/SMC grads needs stu­ 607 E. Corby-2bdrm $330  will return calls  Dallas via Tulsa -call Paul @ 1183  
Library lost and found.  dent for 2 children,Granger  519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat  THE DANCE COLLECTIVE WILL  
LOST:  home,Tu-Thur 2:15­7pm.References,271·1645.  drive by, call for appt. deposit, references 1-800-582-9320  TICKETS  BE SELLING COOKIE GRAMS FOR $1 IN BOTH DINING HALLS  Need ride to St. Louis on Sat. 18  
silver and gold women's watch lost  DURING LUNCH AND DINNER ON  Will help with gas and driving.  
somewhere between the south din­ WANTED  Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3  WED. DEC 8TH AND FRI. DEC  Call Mary Kay x-4594  
ing hall and LaFortune  bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st.  Notre Dame Bowl Tickets  10TH  
reward if found, call Beth at 2784  Need ride to Pittsburgh Sat. 11/18  walk to NO. Washldryr, dishwashr,  For Sale  SEND ONE TO A FRIEND! II  
after 4 PM. Will pay. Call John @  2 car garage, 600/mo + uti!. Show  (317) 879·8497  WINDY CITY SHUITLE  
LOST AT UNION STATION  x3623  by appt. 233-6523.  
on Friday 1213  LAST CHANCE TO SHOP IN  
Large man's topcoat:  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  Selling one way plane ticket  Taylor-Good luck on your tests and  CHICAGO BEFORE CHRISTMAS  
charcoallblack;inside pocket reads  Need ride to Harrisburg or Pitts.. PA  KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS.  from O'Hare to Philadelphia  papers this week! Only a little more  TICKETS $10-LAFORTUNE  
"1 00% wool" or '1 00%  area after 10:00 am Thurs. 16.  272-0615.  International, for 12118.  time to go! (Then Aunt Ruth's car is  INFORMATION DESK CALL 631­ 
wool/cashmere" and "Made in  Please call Carrie 284-4367  Call Dave at x2508.  going to Boston...hopefully...)  8128  
England"  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ Love you. Jamie  
If found please call John x2073  need passenger to atlanta on fri. 12117 call sean x1057  ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153  PERSONAL  Adoption: the placement of your  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE CLUB MEMBERS: Our last meet­ 
child may be the most precious gift  ing this semester is at Dan O'Days  
Found-Black Lord & Taylor men's  Hoi Hoi Hoi I Need a ride to  ROOMMATE NEEDED  you could make. NO alum wants to  this Thursday. It's a great chance  
_,  overcoat & Honda keys at Union Station FRI night. Call 4-2071  Minnesota (Minn.-Prior Lake area) for Christmas break. very friendly,  Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs  THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK INVITES ALL STU­ be mom through your gift. Professional couple, country home,  to practice what you've learned! If you want to go and haven't signed  
like to drive, do not bite ... usually.  271-1399  DENTS, GRAD STUDENTS, LAW  with lots of love and faith. Strictly  up yet, call Laurie at 634-3490.  
Help with tolls, gas. etc. Please call  STUDENTS TO ITS FIRST STU­ legal. Call Tricia and Jim  
FOUND: MEN'S DIVERS WATCH  Kory x 3040  2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES  DENT/ALUMNI GET-TOGETHER  1-800-820-1139.  To Diane,  
WITH LEATHER BAND OUTSIDE  NEAR NO  ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 28,  Christmas, It's that lime of year.  
O'SHAG WED BEFORE THANKS­ FREE TRIPS & CASH I Call us and  AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR  1993 AT 6:00PM AT REIDY'S  It's. time for Doug to drink a few  
GIVING BREAK  find out how hundreds of students  232-2595  RESTAURANT 22 East 54th Street,  Quality Copies, Quickly  beer,  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  New York NY. For info call Carey  THE COPY SHOP  In my dreams, you're all I see,  
CLAIRE 273-0926  and LOTS OF CASH with  Lamont (212)848-7351 or Monique  LaFortune Student Center  Like a partridge on my desk.  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ Room to rent for grad student.  Headley  631-COPY  
Lost: If you were at the formal at  ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  Twyckenham Hills area.  (914)251-8669  Sports Info Quotes o' the Week:  
Union Station Friday night and  Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or  10 min. from campus. Call for info  "Whitey made me a woman"  
accidentally took my full-length  Padre/ CALL NOW! TAKE A  232-6658  ADOPTION: NO grad and wife,  "I saw god downstairs"  
navy coat. please call me. The  BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  MARCH FOR LIFE  happily married for eight years,  "My dream date would be Paul  
brand name began with "Brom" (Bromex, Bromack, or something  (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  FOR SALE  FRIDAY, January 21 DC TRIP  wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm, loving home with kindness  Berretlini, Brett Morris & Willie Nelson"  
like that). Alicia x4834  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  If interested call NO Right to Life  and patience from a full-time mom  
247 Siegfried  EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE  FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings,  631-9006  and devoted dad. Please call  Happy Birthday Melissa  
WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN,  necklaces, and bracelets all at high­ Wendy and Tim at 1-800-440-8588  Love Thad  
EUROPE, HAWAII. ASIA!) CRUISE  ly reasonable prices. Great  anylime  
Did you take the wrong black David  LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  Christmas gifts! Call Jessica at 4­ G'day NDA-PORT LODGERS OF  00000000000000000000000000  
Benjamin brand coat from the  HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  2963  SPRING '93: COITOSLOE? NOlA­ Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on  Two things Ron's sick of:  
Union Station formal Friday? I have  SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE/  But don't forget Dec. 1Oth. You  Luxury Yachts Seven day Island  1 . the kite stuck in the tree at Zahm  
yours. Please call Cathy x3031.  CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31  know where, bring a present take  Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin  2. the red+white fisherman's hat  
Fly round trip from  the keys-you're fine to drive.  & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6.  that a swimmer always wears.  
BEACH Springbreak Promoter.  Midway to Los Angeles  1/800-999-SAIL  00000000000000000000000000  
LOST AT UNION STATION  Small or large groups. FREE trips  di.Jring Christmas Break  (7245)  
Friday 1213. at Formal:  and CASH. Call CMll-800·423·  lor 2. Call 259-1 086  Julie and Tom long to adopt your  Nuns run bald through Vatican Hall  
Brown herringbone tweed  5264.  infant into our loving New England  Win a trip to Cancun! Look for  pregnant,  
sportscoat; folded formal ticket  For Sale: big back pack for travel  home. Your child will grow up in a  details and entry blanks in the  Pleading the Immaculate  
and paper in inner pocket;  abroad, only used 1 semester.  happy home near great schools,  coupon section of your new  Conception.  
If you accidentally took it.  NEED A RIDE TO LONG ISLAND  x1318  parks and beaches. Call collect  University Telephone Directory.  
please call.  FOR XMAS BREAK CALL SEAN  anytime (508)535-3718. Easy to  nirectories are a•,.,tilable now at  Did anyone else see Scholastic fea­ 
Brad x2041, 319 Stanford  AT 299-1307  ford scort 85, best ofert, 273 4028  talk to.  Student Activities in Lafortune.  tured in 'Rudy"? Neither did we!  

--·-------~-----------_.... Wednesday, December 8, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
All-American Faulk to Pros 
continued from page 16 

leave Aztecs for NFL 
so much because you have classes and stuff. Here, there is By BERNIE WILSON "It came to a point to where I so much to learn," said Smith. 
Associated Press felt like I wanted to come back, "There are guys who have been 
but with the coaching changes 
in the league 10 to 12 yearsSAN DIEGO and the year that I had, I felt and they know their stuff. They Marshall Faulk's next slash n' like it was time for a change," take the game to another level. 
dash run will be in the NFL, not Faulk said during a news con­
It's a lot more demanding
at San Diego State. ference at Jack Murphy Sta­physically."
The two-time All-American diym. 
"You're going against the toprunning back, whose dazzling Faulk said he made up his players every day in practice. 
runs put the Aztecs on the col­mind before meeting Monday In college, you face three toplege football map, announced with Ted Tollner, who was 
players. Now, you line up
Tuesday that he is giving up his picked on Friday to replace 
against 16 guys who are the 
final year of eligibility to make Luginbill. 
top players in their positionshimself available for the NFL "I think he's ready," Tollner every week," added Smith. 
draft. said by telephone from Ana­In Week 13 of the 1993 NFL His announcement came a heim, where he's finishing this 
season, Notre Dame's most 
week after athletic director season as quarterbacks coach recent football alumni have 
Fred Miller fired coach Al Lug­of the Los Angeles Rams. "I just already been confounded by a . 
inbill and his staff for failing to hope it isn't a knock on the new barrage of new defensive/offen­
get San Diego State into a bowl guy. 
sive schemes, pounded by game for the second straight ''I'm disappointed because opponents and hounded by 
year. he's one of the great players in autograph seekers. Some have Among the fired assistants the country and that would be even gotten a chance to bask in 
was receivers coach Curtis a heck of a way to start our 
moments of glory in the first Johnson. who recruited Faulk program," said Tollner, a for­
year of their professional
from New Orleans in 1991 and mer coach at Southern Cal who careers, but overall the season became almost a father figure has been an NFL assistant the has been one of intensive edu­
to the player. last seven seasons. 
cation in the finer points of the sport.
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Carter, a defensive back with 
the Redskins, is frank about going, novice or varsity, bring $12 to Rro 235 Lyons by Friday. 
• NO Rowing Team formal on Dec. 10 . .Anyone interested in 
playing professionally. "It's tough. It's definitely aCall Mary at 4294 with questions. 
step up from major college football. You don't know how
• NO Rowing sweatshirt orders can he picked up next Friday, tough it is 'til you get there,"December 17, from 3-6 pm in the Badin Hall office {to the left of concluded Carter. 
the front door). If this is a problem. contact Jan Mooney at 634· 3822 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 surprise for the Irish. 

The Observer 
"Coming in, we expected Bryan to have to pay his dues," 
said Schafer. "But he's played
is now accepting applications 
really well. and has earned a 
for the following position: 
regular position. He's a heads­up, solid-checking defenseman. He exceeded our expectations." Many of the other freshmen 
have also surprised the coach­ing staff. One major reason for this has been their work ethic. 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge of Macintosh computers and their 
Those who are not seeing regu­lar minutes treat every practice 
applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer 
as a game.

office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 
"I came here ·in top physical for more information. 
shape," said forward Ryan Thornton. "I knew my physical 

author of the groundbreaking book, Tlit' Fi(f/1 Discipline: Tfre Art and Practice of tflt Uarnlng Organization and director of the Center for Organizational learning at MIT's Sloan School of Management, appears live via satellite to explore how we can create workplaces and schools that are "learning organizations." 
Promlnently featured ln the cover story for the August 31 Issue of Business Week, Dr. Se!'ge Is hailed as one of the "hottest and most lnHuential new gurus... who focuses on how managers and organizations learn." Join us at the location below to hear Dr. Senge's newest insights since writing Tlie Fiftli Discipline and discover how you too can apply his ideas. You'll have the opportunity to phone or fax your questions and hear the responses Immediately, on-air. 
Don't miss this exciting professional development opportunity. It /&Uf may 6e the hest Investment of three liowrs !lOll could mafre! 
Friday 

December 10~ 1993 
1-4 pm 

136 DeBartolo 
100-Seat Capacity ~)PBS 


The AED Fcurohrion 
.................... ~.-~
'-.1/ The 
-·-Learning1 1' Circle 
N.A.K. Production AssoCiates 

Smith 
continued from page 13 
10.5 yards a reception. 
The transition to professional football has been smooth for Smith thanks to the city which welcomed him and the cama­raderie he maintains with his former Irish teammates. 
"My impression of the NFL is that it's a good experience and anyone given the opportunity should take advantage of it," said Smith. "It's good going from Notre Dame to the Saints, 
Carter 
continued from page 13 
ceptions with five for 54 yards and he has deflected three passes. 
Starting seven of the 11 games in which he has played, Carter has 19 solo tackles and five assists. 
Although his numbers are solid, Carter has found playing against professionals to be a challenge. 
"The QBs are just tremen­dous. Covering the guys and getting the ball away from them is harder. Every play, ev­ery game, a guy can beat you every time," confessed Carter. 
The schedule of a profession­al football player is busy, but Carter, like the others, has 
.....,_
because they also have a win­ning program. It's also great being here because the fans love its football team. 
"There is always someone from Notre Dame on the other team. (After the game) we chit­chat and I see how they're do­ing. It's a camaraderie." 
As the pro season starts to wind down, Smith is looking forward to helping his team into the playoffs and to a Super Bowl appearance, but more than half way through his rook­ie year Smith is pleased. 
"I've had a lot of fun and learned a lot," concluded Smith. 
found time to watch his old teammates battle for the na­tional championship. 
Carter talks to his friends at Notre Dame every week or ev­ery two weeks just to let them know he's watching them. De­spite being a little hesitant to call them right after the Boston College game, Carter supports the team wholeheartedly. 
''I'm behind them 100%. I still feel their pain," said the defensive back. "Those guys went through a lot of work. I wouldn't have wanted to go through all that. They worked for it all." 
This spring, Carter will be re­united with his Notre Dame teammates in the classroom as he returns to South Bend to fin­ish up the two semesters he needs to get his degree. 

play would help me. And work­ing hard in practice will hope­fully help me get some min­utes." 
This hard work has made a positive impression on the upperclassmen, who have done their best to make the first-year skaters feel comfortable with the program. 
"They're a great group of guys," noted Welch. " They really tried to make you feel at home and welcome you. Many of them know what we're going through." 
While this year's class may not have the standout freshman scorer like now-sophomore Jamie Ling, there are a couple of Irish frosh who can put the puck in the net. 
Two particular players who have produced so far have been Tim Harberts and Lorenz. They have combined for eight goals so far this season. 
"Tim Harberts is a gifted offensive player who's coming around on the defensive end," said Schafer. "He's a threat to score every time he 's on the ice." 
Likewise, Lorenz has definite 
scoring potential. "He can 
break loose and score a lot of 
goals. He's had some great 
games. Now, he has to keep 
working." 
A third forward who has done-his job has been Brian McCarthy. "He quietly does his job well. He's workman-like in his hustle. He has done all we've asked and more." 
One disadvantage the fresh­man must now face is the fact that CCHA foes have realized that the Irish are capable of pulling off upsets. 
"We've had some big wins, especially Lake (Superior) State and Michigan Tech," according to McCarthy. "They can't underestimate us any more. We just have to continue to adjust. 
Seeing how quickly they adjusted to the fast pace of the CCHA, adjusting to high expec­tations should not be that much of a problem, especially given the positive outlo9k of the team. 
"Things can only get better 
given the youth of the team," 
said forward Pat Bellmore, who 
will be looking to make his 
mark in the second half of the 
season. 
While it may be unrealistic at 
this stage, the freshman do 
have a long-term goal for their 
career at Notre Dame. 
"We're hoping to make a run 
at the NCAA title," said 
Thornton. 
If they continue to work and 
play like they have, anything is 
possible. 

SPEND THE SUMMER OF '94 IN RUSSIA 
Join Russian students at a resort hotel just outside Moscow. Study the Russian language and/or Russian literature with the latter being taught in English. The program is open to students with no prior Russian. 
The Russian students, on full scholarship with hopefully future Yeltsins and Solzhenitsyns amongst them, will be taught economics & western history. 
The mornings will be devoted to the class room courses leaving plenty of time for other planned and unplanned activities with the Russian students. Total cost for the 8 week course, books, room and board, bicycle rental, airfare: Only $2395 
A ~ tour p.ckage .-ad • Weekend In Sl. p._.tug .. offwed .. $150 ..:.h • optional utras. 
For a brochure, call 1-800-PYCCKOE (792-2563) 
GRANT'S RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE 
INCORPORATED 

7330 WESTMORELAND Dr., SARASOTA, FL 34243 
Wednesday, December 8, 1993

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS 
Mirer settles in with Seattle 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
It was a battle that featured two former Notre Dame stand­out quarterbacks when Seattle played Kansas City last Sunday. 
It was the 1977 Golden Boy versus the 1992 Golden Boy. 
It was Montana versus Mirer. 
This year, experience was key as the Montana-led Chiefs de­feated the Seahawks 31-16. but things may be different in a few years. 
As the second pick in the 1993 National Football League draft, Hick Mirer was the most high profile selection of all his Irish teammates. His initiation into professional football was a little rocky, starting with the in­centive-laden contract talks that left him on the short end of numerous jokes. 

With the salary cap for rook­ies in effect, Mirer and his agent negotiated a contract which promised to compensate him thoroughly if the Sea­hawks' offense improved in any way. Once details of the con­tract leaked to the league administration, a new contract had to be worked out delaying Mirer's arrival at training camp. 
The contract problems did effect the quarterback, but only for a short time. 
"It was frustrating because it kept me from being (in Seattle) when everyone else was here," said Mirer. "Once that was out of the way, I put it out of my mind. Things worked out. I just wanted to be here to play." 
Since then. Mirer has worked . hard to establish himself as one of the next generation of NFL quarterbacks. On the field, the biggest adjustment for Mirer has been to get used to a pro­fessional offense which relies on throwing the ball more. Al­ready he has completed 208 passes for 2240 yards with a success rate of 57.5 percent and seven touchdowns. 

"It's quite different," said 
Mirer. "The main difference is 
the amount of passing we do. 
We throw the ball a lot more 
than we did at Notre Dame. 
Coach Holtz had us do more 
option and wishbone things." 
Mirer, like his old Notre 
Dame teammates, has been im­
pressed by the quality of play in 
the league, but he is not intimi­
dated. Although he has taken 
his licks this season, having 
been sacked 38 times already, 
Mirer has played in every 
game. 

Another big adjustment for Mirer has been not having his family around. His parents attended every game he ever played at Notre Dame, but this year they have only made a few. For Mirer, it is a big change not to have them in the stands. 
"I bought a satellite dish so . they could see all the games," 
said Mirer. "It's definitely 
weird. We talk on the phone a 
little bit more now." 
As a starter, Mirer has had 
little time to himself and he has 
only gotten a chance to talk to 
his former teammates after 
games and when he came to 
Notre Dame for the Pitt game. 
Once the season is over, he 
plans on tracking everyone 
down. 

"I intend on trying to find 
those guys and comparing 
notes once the season's over," 
said Mirer. 

After a long but promising 
first year, Mirer should have a 
whole lot of notes for his old 
Irish teammates. 
Despite stats, Brooks unhappy with season 
ByJENNY MARTEN 
Senior Spom W rirer 
Whenever honors for rookies are discussed, his name seems to come up. His rookie statistics are impressive: 873 yards on 108 carries, three touchdo~s and the two longest runs in the league, for 85 and 78 yards. 
But, Reggie Brooks is not happy. 
''I'm having a miserable time right now. We're getting dogged out. I've had impressive showings, but we're not win­ning and if we're not winning, I'm not happy," said the former Irish tailback. 
His team, the Washington Redskins, is 3-9 and in last place of the Eastern Division of the NFC. 
In Brooks' mind, it has not been a successful season even though he played in all 12 games in his first year, includ­ing seven starts. He has been impressed with how quickly he matured in the league after coming in with few expecta­tions. 
"Coming in l was thinking I wouldn't get to play very much. I didn't think I'd come in and do as well as I am as quickly," said Brooks. · 
Everyone at Notre Da_me knew Brooks could run with 
the ball, but in the last few months he has also improved his receiving. Brooks has 15 receptions for 166 yards including a 43-yard grab, his longest of the year. 
Brooks has also kept in touch with friends at Notre Dame and his former teammates around the NFL. 
Having Tom Carter on the team with him in Washington also helps when they start get­ting anti-Notre Dame flack from their Redskin teammates. 
"Now that those guys lost, we've gotten a lot of grief," said the tailback. 
The pair has "stuck together" through the friendly ribbing their new teammates have dished out and Brooks is having fun as he learns and continues to grow. 
His family continues to be supportive of Brooks and his brother Tony of the Philadel­phia Eagles. They were there when the two teams met earlier this year and at several other games. 
Right now, one of his goals is to get 1,000 yards without be­ing sidelined by a nagging shoulder injury. The other ol course is to win. 
Brooks insists that, "You can't have fun if you don't win." 

YELLOW CAB HOLIDAY SPECIAL 
Group Rates From Notre Dame 
to O'Hare and Midway Group to Four $1 00 Available 24 Hours Phone# 233--9333 
Will Pick Up at Dorm 


The Observer/Dave Hungeling 

Former Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer is adjusting well to profes­sional football with the Seattle Seahawks. 
Co 
SENIORS 
THE ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB WI BE OPEN THIS WEEK FOR: 

~~tN~a 
9:00-1 1 :00 WEDNESDAY 

Sign ups this week and during exams 
for Communities ND 
-men and women undergradates -in small groups -for prayer, reflection, growth 
Registration forms at Campus Ministry Hesburgh Library and Badin Hall 
-Kick off Rally ­Saturday, January 15, 11 a.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Wednesday, December 8, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Carter remains content with early-leave decision 
Smith marches into Saints program 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
A number of people were suprised last January when he announced his intention to skip his senior year and enter the NFL draft as a junior. Jerome Bettis was expected to give up his last year/of eligibility, but not Irish cornerback Tom Carter. 
At the time, many criticized his decision saying he was not ready, but Carter proved the skeptics wrong by being se­lected by the Washingon Red­skins in the first round. 
He is still comfortable with his decision. 
"The team welcomed me with open arms, especially the DB coach and the DB players," said Carter. 'Til be back there next semester to finish my degree. I had to make the decision. Last week, (Bettis and I ) talked a little out there after the Rams' game. We both feel like we made the right decision." 
At the time, Carter cited fi­nancial concerns as the main reason for his early exit from the Notre Dame football pro­gram. After three years as a starter, he said that it was time to help his family. 
Finally, Carter can relax knowing that his family is fina­cially stable. 
"It's one of the first times I've been able to sit back and play football and not worry about the external forces," said Carter. 
The Redskins have given him the chance to play and the for­mer Irish standout has risen to the challenge. He is tied for the lead in the NFC for most inter-
see CARTER I page 11 
~e

...;.,'£nrounter
I AT "4TH DAY" THIS WEEK: 
"VOICES OF FAITH" AND KATE BARRETT AND TOM McDERMOTT, C.S.C. ON "COMMUNITIES ND" 
7:15 pm, Tonight, Dec. 8, Stanford-Keenen Chapel. 
ALL WELCOME! 
By JENNY MARTEN Smith might always be re-Senior Sports Wrirer membered for his Herculean touchdown run in which he To some Notre Dame fans, Irv carried several Indiana de-

The Observer/Jake Peters 
lrv Smith is making an impact with the New Orleans Saints both on and 
off the field. 

"9)w~~~~~w~'? ~ e-L tJieAlv w tM., ~ ~~ ~It'' ~mntt ~ 1rfi® ~~U® 11-3 at LaFortune 
FRIDAY ONLY! 
fenders into the end zone on his back in 1991. 
Around New Orleans, he's making a name for himself with his community spirit as well as his play on the field. 
Earlier this year in conjunc­tion with the Saints and the United Way, he helped arrange for 217 underprivileged chil­dren in New Orleans to see a special screening of "Rudy" and then talked to them after­wards.The Sporting News gave Smith a "High Five" in its November 8 edition for his in­volvement in the "Rudy" screening. 
"It was a good opportunity. I've been trying to do some­thing for the community," said Smith. "Other people forget about how important the com­munity is. 
In addition to the screening, Smith has also become active in the St. Thomas Housing Devel­opment and its Saturday after­noon athletic program, visiting the children's hospital and a variety of fund raisers. 
He especially enjoys the St. Thomas Housing Development athletic program because of the opportunity it provides to the kids. 
"A couple of hours off the 
streets is a couple of hours they 
can't get into trouble," ex­
plained Smith. 
As well as being an example 
to the kids off the field, Smith is 
also teaching them the value of 
hard work with his play on the 
field. Already in 1993, Smith 
has played in all 12 games this 
season racking up 137 yards on 
13 receptions for an average of 
see SMITH I page II 


TTE 
T 

N H 
"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "Where Tenants Are The Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 


• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 


.. 
• ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Ou,r Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 1993 
Irish challenge top-25 Purdue Saint Mary's looks to 
By AMY GRIFFIN 

improve on1-5 mark 
Sports Writer 





By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
With starting guard Liz Vernasco out with bronchial pneumonia, the Belles could have their hands full as they take on Wheaton college tonight, but the players remain optimistic. 
Katy Lalli, one of the Belles' key players, believes they have a good shot at winning. 
"We've had good practices," said Lalli, "we're really coming together as a team." 
The Belles are hoping to improve their 1-5 record. This could be a difficult task with Wheaton's strong offense. 
"They have a great center, Janet Alborn," said coach Wood, "she gave us fits last year." 
Yet he feels the team has been playing well lately. 
"We aren't very big or very experienced, but we've come a long way this season." 
In preparation for the follow­ing games, the Belles have been practicing their shooting and rebounding. Their preparation is proving to be effective. 
"The team is beginning to feel better," said Wood. "We are using more strategy now." 
For the Belles, the game against Wheaton will be a chance to test that strategy. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will face na­tionally ranked Purdue tonight in West Lafayette. With a 4-0 record, this is the best start for the Irish since the 1979-1980 season. 
Purdue (3-1) currently holds a 4-0 lead in the series against the Irish, and are ranked 22nd in the country. 
"We owe them something. We hope to go out their and pay them back for the last couple of years," said senior Tootie Jones. "I expect it to go down to the wire." 
Last weekend, Notre Dame captured the title at the Brown Powerbar Invitational. They crushed Wisconsin, 77-55, and slid by Brown, 58-54, in the championship game. 
Senior Sherri Orlosky hit her 65th career three-pointer at the tournament, tying the Notre Dame career record for three­pointers. 
Senior Kara Leary scored a team-high 10 points in the Brown game and was named the tournament MVP. 
Freshman Beth Morgan also received all-tournament hon­ors. 
The Irish expect another big defensive performance against Purdue. 
Notre Dame out-rebounded Brown by 20 rebounds. The Irish also recorded five blocked shots, three by junior Letitia Bowen. Bowen leads the team in rebounding with a 11.8 aver­age. 
The only loss for the Boiler­makers came against Vander­

last weekend. 
bitt, 96-91, in the championship game at the Vanderbilt tourna­ment last weekend. Freshman Leslie Johnson lead Purdue scoring 34 points and grabbed 12 rebounds. 
The scoring for the Irish this season has been evenly dis­tributed, with four players av­eraging more than 10 points. Morgan leads the team with 
14.3 points per game, followed by Orlosky (13.0), Bowen (11.3), and Leary (10.0). 
"We had a good feeling about this team. We have 
ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunlfy, In....,. ..m ottwa, to dMpen 
,our ~of ,.our..tl'. row wetuee, your ~with Owtet, your • .,..n.nc.. of CtiNu.n ~
....,.,..... 

FEBRUARY 4-6, 1994 
December 3-10 
December 10 -4:00 p.m. 
Campus Mimstry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
$25.00 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
2 

Wednesday, December 8, 1993 
SPELUNKER 
The Observer • TODAY JAY HOSLER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 




MoM, CP..N I GH p,_ 
BIG TA\100? I Wf'-tfl ~ WI~<0\:.0 st.RPENT Colllt-IG 
AROJt-10 Gi'IE AR!v'\, CLVKI11NG 
A S\11P ON \<\~ G1EST, W1"111 .., 
?-:--""' ) 
~-\ 

"Just keep starin', buddy, and I'll show ya my J?ad eye!" 
~ 
OF INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
l.JE-LL IH•s t),n,_s. I 1-\A...-E-C\\fl.I"»"T"ffiAS. 

DAVE KELLETT 
38 Prevailing 49 Soupy, the pie attitude thrower 
40 Slander 52 A Nobelist in 
41 Comparable Medicine: 1970 53Fitto­
42 Provides food 


\ 

ACROSS 24 Judd Hirsch TV vehicle 
1 Kin to an 25 France's Coty
upright 26 Smooth 
7 Syrian V.I.P. 
transition

and family 28 Man of Fortune
13 Voiced a 30 Slaughter whoYuletide spirit killed baseballs 15 Robert L. 
31 Raison-­

Scott's metaphor for 33 Halves God 35 Have a mutual 
16 Painkiller connection 17 Former 37 Erudite person 18 Rhetorical 39 Fixed quantities 
sword bester 42 Crucifer-family 19 Followed S.C. in 
member 1860 43 Novelist Hunter 21 "Bei --Bist 45 First word of Du Schoen," "The Waste 1937 song Land" 22 A scion of 29 47 MacGraw and Down Baba 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

48Chemical suffixes 50 Emulate Clyde Beatty 51 First of a familiar trio 52 Of a major philosopher 55111 x CLXVIII 56 Arise 58 Wee ball 60 Takes turns 61 Spiral 62 Blessing prompter 
54-­
or smack 44 Dobbin's11 Pieces in a contendere

negative?

chain reaction 29 Biblical loser in 
46 Carpenters' 57 Ayr negative 
12 Cordwood a deal tools 59 Chest protector
measures 
32 A contemporary 14 Transferable 
of Dashiell image 
34 Sicilian rumbler Get answers to any three clues 15 Will postscript 36 Gulches by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­20 Full of life; 
plentiful 37 Wise man 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
NATIONAL DRUNK AND DRUGGED 
HAVE A

DRIVING (3D) PREVENTION MoNTH 
SAFE 
0-1-3
DECEMBER 1993 
HOLIDAY 
... -·---· ...... ­
SEASON

OFFICE OF A~C..Q~OL &Q~V.G ~Q_VJ;.AT!O._N_
Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk 



63 Puts levity aside 
DOWN 
1 Leafless stalks 2 Formed a jury 3 When a tool 
became the rule 4 Be inattentive 5 Culbertson et al. 6 Belief 23 Open-shelved 
7Tops 
cabinets

8 Kept up with Mercury 25 Proof of purchase
9 Watch the baby 10 Nourishment 27 Suffix with sock 
L 

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, December 8, 1993 
Hoosiers dominate Irish, cruise 1 0 1-82 
Williams only Irish bright spot 
By JASON KELLY Associare Sporrs F.diror 

Bobby Knight doesn't pat just anyone on the butt. You have to earn it. 
Almost everyone got his simple reward for a job well done during Indiana's 101-82 win over Notre Dame Tuesday at Assembly Hall. 
"I didn't know what he was doing when he came out there," Williams said. "I guess he was just trying to tell me to hand in thenl." 
Williams was once again Notre Dame's only serious offensive threat as the Indiana defense feasted on his sup­porting cast. turning 20 Irish turnovers into 21 points on the other end. 
Three quick fouls midway through the second half. including a flagrant foul on a Henderson breakaway, sent Williams to the bench. 
"I wasn't trying to hurt him," Williams said. "lie was going for an easy basket and I tried to stop him If I had to do it over I would do the same thing." 
Henderson did the same thing on the other. end. slamming Williams to the floor and nearly causing a brawl. 
"Thank goodness neither team got out of control," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "It was just a very physical game and those things happen." 
Knight seemed to appreciate 

see IRISH I page I 0 
Freshmen leading Irish hockey 
Monty Williams led the Irish with 23 points in last night's loss to Indiana. ---------------­
By TIM SHERMAN 
Spons Wrir~r 

Notre Dame hockey coach Hie Schafer was looking for solid contributions from his fresh­man class this season. Thus level. 

"In years past, I think the attitude of the team has been 'Let's make it respectable'," noted defenseman Ben Nelsen. "Now, we're looking to go out and win every game and prove the doubters wrong. It doesn't matter who we're playing, we've shown we can beat any­one." 
They did not wait long to show they had the abiltiy to back up their confidence. In the team's first game, against Waterloo, three of the four goals were scored by frosh skaters, ineluding the game­winner by Nelsen. 
According to Schafer, Nelsen has had possibly the biggest contribution to the team. 
"His quickness really sets him apart," said Schafer. "Coupled 
.... 
with his ability, he's a fine hockey player. lie should be a real leader for us in the future." 
Fellow blue-liner Bryan Welch has also been a pleasant 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Freshman delenseman Ben Nelsen and the rest of his classmates have made a huge impact on the Irish hockey team this season. see HOCKEY I page II 


far. he has definitely received and they still have at least 24 what he hoped for, if not more. games remaining. A large part 
Many of the team's nine of the season's success can be freshmen have come in and had attributed to the freshmen. an immediate impact. The One important characteristic Irish are only one game short of of the team that the freshmen equaling last season's win total, have surprisingly have an affect 
on has been the confidence 
Inside SPORTS 
Saint Mary's 
Irish women's baskethall 
basketball Thn Belles sqaure ofT 
Notre Dame hopes to with Wheaton college. 
improve its record to 5-0 with a win over Purdue see page 14 see page 14 
Irish lack IU's power, tradition 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assisrant Spons Ediror 

The di!Terence is simple. Notre Dame plays hard; Indiana wins. 
The Notre Dame players went through their warmup drills with determined game faces. This was business, and they would try their best to win. 
The Indiana players were extraordi­narily loose in running their layups. They joked with each other, smiled at the crowd, and generally seemed to be enjoy­ing themselves. They knew they had the better team. 
The result was a predictable 101-82 victory by the lloosiers. 
Notre Dame playnd a very credible game. The Irish offense showed marklld improvement over past pnrformances and was able to put points on the board when star Monty Williams fouled out with more than ten minutes remaining. 
However, Hoosier basketball rivals Notre Dame football in both execution and pageantry. 
As the crowd reached a crescendo before tlw opening tip, it was a clear that the lloosiers would not experience a let­down after their win over then-no. 1 Kentucky on Saturday. The crowd would not let them. 
That enthusiasm was justified in the opening minutes, as a Williams turnover 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
see TRADITION I page 10 
Former Notre Dame stars adjusting to NFL 
By JENNY MARTEN yards a reception. Senior Spons Wrirer As these NFL freshmen have 
made the move to the top level 
Although the team only fin­of football, the transition has 
ished fourth in the national rankings, last year's Notre Dame football team sent six players to the National Football League in the first two rounds of the draft and three others in later rounds. 
Spanning the country from 
• see NFL IRISH, pgs 12-13 
Seattle to New Orleans, Washington D.C. to Indianapolis. these nine players joined fellow Irish football alumni in the professional ranks. Several of these players including Hick Mirer, Tom Carter, Reggie Brooks, Jerome Bettis and lrv Smith are seeing significant playing time and making contributions in their rookie campaigns. 
Brooks and Bettis are on pace to become the first former teammates to rush for over 1,000 yards in their first sea­son. Mirer has already thrown for 2240 yards with an effi­ciency of 57.6 percent. Carter is tied for the NFC lead in inter­ceptions this season with five and Smith is averaging 10.5 
been difficult at times, but they are also pleased with profes­sional football. 
Mirer, the quarterback for the Seattle Seahawks, was tagged as the starter from day one. Overall. his impressions of the NFL have been positive. 
"Well. it's been intensive. It's very different from what I'm used to. You're out on your own now and away from all the guys," said Mirer. "It's been fun, but awful hectic. I've enjoyed it." 
Although they were part of the elite of college football. tlw rookies have found that they have a lot to learn. In their new jobs, they have played with and against other professionals who have been in the leagun sincn the rookies were in high school. 
As a tight end for the New Orleans Saints, Smith has found the switch from football as a extracurricular activity to a job and the level of competition as the two main changes for him. 
"All you're doing all day is football. It can be more com­plex. In college you can only do 
see PROS I page I I 

NFL football Rick Mirer and other for­mer Irish stars have dif­ferent stories about life in the NFL 
see pages 12 and 13 






