
-~--~ ­

Male dorm will convert next year 
By KATE CRISHAM 
News Writer 
Vice-President of Student Affairs Patty O'Hara verified last Sunday at Alumni Hall 
II!rl! I~ jl fiIn =~I fjijt!IJ\1[~ II 
that a decision has been made to convert a male dorm into a female dorm, announced Hall President's Council co-chair­person Chris Canzoniero. 
A committee was established in September to determine which dorm would be con­verted. said Canzoniero. This committee will make its rec­ommendation to the Board of Trustees on December 1. 
"This announcement is in di­rect contrast to what William Kirk told us when he spoke to the IIPC last month," said Canzoniero. "lie told us that no decision had been made to convert any dorm." 
Although every male dorm on campus was considered for conversion, O'Hara said that there were many "limiting fac­tors" which would influence the decision, said Canzoniero. 
"Sizewise, it must be a large enough dorm that there will not be any need for any future conversions," said Canzoniero. "But the towers are considered too large for conversion." 
According to Canzoniero, O'Hara said that the committee will also attempt to avoid con­verting any dorm which re­ceived a large amount of trans­fers from Pangborn. 
"Although this may change,: 
according to these qualifica­
tions, the dorm most likely to 
be converted will be either 
Cavanaugh, Stanford or 
Zahm," said Canzoniero. 
Also discussed were securi­
ty measures planned for the 
FSU game. Director of 
Security Rex Hakow warned of 
the potential dangers entailed 
by rushing onto the field. 

Gore, Perot go one-on-one over NAFTA 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a contentious, finger­pointing debate, Vice President Al Gore said Tuesday that Ross Perot will profit from the defeat of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Perot dis­missed the charge as "propa­ganda" to defend a deal that would punish American work­ers. 
The prime-time showdown was combative from the outset, reflecting the high stakes in an extraordinary fight in which the Clinton administration is about 25 votes short with the pivotal House vote just a week away. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley rated NAFTA's chances of passing at "50-50." 
Hours before the debate, the White House got a much-need­ed boost -NAFTA en­dorsements from five House Democrats who had been un­decided. A sixth, Rep. Jim Bacchus of Florida, announced his support just as the debate got under way. 

The debate on CNN's "Larry King Live" was but a minute old when Perot accused Gore of interrupting him. Tension crackled throughout the 90­minute program as Gore and Perot traded a barrage of charges, some of them sub­stantive, others more personal. 
Gore said Perot supported the trade deal in 1991 but then flip-flopped as a presidential candidate last year "to bring out the politics of fear." Later, he upped the ante, saying a Perot family business in Texas stood to make huge gains as a trade center should NAFTA be 

ND experts view debate as debacle; too theatrical 
ByJOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
Hard facts and solid debate were the big losers in last night's debate on the North American Free Trade Agreement, according to sev­eral Notre Dame professors specializing in areas of international economics and U.S.-Mexican affairs. 
"It was a theatrical perfor­mance-not a real debate," said professor emeritus of sociology Julian Samora. "I expe~teq good economic debate, and it clearly was not that." 
'fhe battle of styles between Texas billionaire and former presidential candidate Ross Perot kept the debate, tele~ vised on CNN's program "Larry King Live," from being an effective tooLof pet!;uasion, according to O'Neill chair in economics Denis Goulet. 
"Gore was more believable while Perot tended to be petty and rash," said Goulet, a spe­cialistin.relations between the United States and Latin America. "I don't think either were very persuasive," 
see NAFT A I page 4 

Profiles of the NAFTA partners 
~ UNITED STATES: Population: 248,709,873 (1990 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $5.1 trillion 
(2nd 1/4 1993) 
Gross National Product, per capita: $21,800 Literacy rate: 97% (1991) ...CANADA: Population: 27.,409,000 (1992 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $560 billion (1992) Gross Domestic Product, per capita: $20,433 (1992) Literacy rate: 99% (1991) 
1•1 MEXICO: Population: 90,007,000 (1991 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $236 billion 
(1990) 
Gross Domestic Product, per capita: $2,680 (1990) Literacy rate: 88% (1989) Source: U.S. Trade Representative, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Statistics Canada, The World Almanac and Book of Facts 1993 
APNJm. J. Castello 



Right, left debate focuses on life, feminism 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Arguing the liberal and con­
servative interpretations of top­
ics which 
included abor­
tion, sexua 
harass men 
and gende 
equality, con­
servative 
activist Phyllis 
Schlafly and 
S a r a h 
Weddington, Weddington
the attorney 
who successfully defended Roe 
v. Wade, debated "The Changing Roles of Men and Women in the 90's" last night at Stepan Center. 
"The decision in Roe versus Wade was largely a fragment of Justice Blackmun's imagina­tion," said Schafly. who was a force behind the defeat of the Equal Rights Amendment and a consultant to President Ronald Reagan. "Protecting human life is one of the great tasks of gov­ernment." 
But, according to Weddington's accounts, abor­tion is a right that women are entitled to. 
"The decision doesn't force anything on you," she said. "It gives you a chance to make a choice in private because there are some things so personal that government should not be able to decide." 
Both commented on Pope John Paul Il's recent trip to Denver and meeting with President Clinton, 
"The holy father did have a right to speak to Clinton but it is not his right to try to legislate that on the rest of us," said Weddington. 
But Schlafly saw the visit in a different light, "I am very proud that our Holy Father went to Denver to lay it on the line against President Clinton, defending life," she said. 
Adressing the development and achievements of the femi­nism, Weddington argued that the crux of the movement is to "challenge the old stereo types and limitations that apply to women and to men." 
"Feminism has redefined what society sought to see as appropriate gender roles," said Weddington. 
But Schalfly's interpretation did not indicate the movement's achievements as directed toward attaining equality. 
"The feminist movement tries to repeal human nature," she said. "There is no way they can espouse the kooky equality by 
their  premier lawyer  Ruth  
Bader Ginsberg."  
"Feminism is  based  on  a  

woman's right to kill her un­born baby," she said. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Student Union Board. 


The price is right for student Florida State tickets 
By ROlANDO DE AGUIAR Viewpoint Editor  game's student ticket sells for under $50. But Florida State at Notre Dame is not a typical  games, squeaking out the 31­30 regular-season matchup against Miami, and then  Notre Dame's chances against Florida State, which is used to practicing in hot and muggy  motivation enough for many students. But the forces of sup­ply and demand are at work.  
Let's make a deal.  game. And this is not a typical  destroying West Virgi,nia in  Tallahassee. But it makes some  With the explosion of the stu­ 
The classifieds are full, prices are just right and my ID looks just like you. C'mon. It's the game of the century. With second-ranked Notre  ticket. Over the past few weeks, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have created a new high-stakes ticket market. Student tickets have gone for  Tempe, Ariz. to clinch the national championship. Perhaps Notre Dame fans should bear witness to an omen. "This game might even be  ticket-holders wary. dent ticket market, prices, of "The weather will not be course, have fallen. good, and my seats aren't~ "When l first started looking great, either," said Anneliese for a student ticket, people Hahn, a senior. "I don't really were asking a lot." said Bill, an want to be squashed against off-campus sophomore. "But I  
Dame's football game against  as much as $300, 22 times the value of the Florida State stu­ more important than in '88 (against Miami)," said senior  everyone else in the stadium in the freezing cold."  bought one for about $100." "I ended up selling mine for  
• see TITLE, page 2  dent ticket's face value (a stu· dent ticket booklet, with  Steve Clar. "It's later in the season, and whoever wins this  The weather, of course. is not the only reason that. most peo­ $185," said freshman Juliet Majtenyi. "I thought I could get  
number one Florida State only three days away, the market for tickets is feverish. Most  coupons for six home games, cost $81 this season). "Obviously, this is a highly  game will win the national title. ''I'm not happy with these people who are selling their  ple are selling their student tickets. Though·· a zero-degree day might put many more tick·  a lot more· money for the ticket, but a lot of people are selling them lately."  
reports put the value of a scalped general admission tick­et between $500 and $1.000.  sought-after ticket," said Bubba Cunningham, the Athletic Deparment's Director  student tickets. How are we supposed to win when people are trying to make money off  ets on the market. cold, hard cash provides the most motiva· tion. ·  At Notre Dame's last home game. against USC, about 100 student ticket booklets were  
Student tickets. of course, are non-transferable. But that  of Marketing. "Every couple of years, there is a great game  the game instead of cheering?" Some students think the  "I just needed some money to go on Spring Break," said  confiscated. After complaints at the ticket office. the tickets  
hasn't prevented some student ticket holders from selling their Florida State passes. A typical Notre Dame home  that everyone wants to see. "The 1988 game against Miami and the (1989) Fiesta Bowl come to mind," The Irish won both of those  game might just be too cold to cheer. The forecast calls for a high of 50 degrees, with rain in the forecast. That might bode well for  sophomore Mike Diaz. "~ haven't been taking ariy offilrs for less than $200, and I think I sold it for $210." Two hundred quick dollars is  werereturned to theirowners. THough Rex Rakow; director of University Security, sees see TICKETS I page 4  

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


'Fedbuster' suspect has long history of crimes 
determined he posed a threat to soci­LOS ANGELES ety. Larsen's father, Ernest, said the The man accused of being son was home when virtually all the "Fedbuster," a letter-writing antago­fires. Larsen has lived most of his nist who threatened to set fires to adult life with his parents in subur­"settle a score" with the govern­ban Van Nuys, when he hasn't been ment, has a long history of crime, in jail, neighbors and authorities including an arson arrest at age 9. said. "He wasn't very friendly," said Federal prosecutors haven't charged Mike Armendariz, who recently did a Thomas Lee Larsen in any of the two-day plumbing job at the Larsen wildfires that swept through home. "The only time he talked to Southern California during the last me he told me he liked to bring his two weeks, destroying hundreds of telescope into the hills to look at the homes and leaving three people stars." "He seemed strange-. He dead. But in sealed court documents dressed like a geek, as though he obtained by the Los Angeles Times, was in some sort of time warp," said authorities said Larsen "clearly and Hina Doner, 27, who lives across the completely matches the profile of a street. Authorities said Larsen sent serial arsonist." Larsen, 43, was the angry, seven-page "Fedbuster" convicted of counterfeiting in 1977 letter to homeowners, police depart­and sentenced to four years in ments and fire departments in prison. In 1987, he received a six­August and September. The letter, year sentence for spraying acid on signed with the moniker, threatened seven people and 500 cars while to set wildfires in retaliation for gov­making deliveries for a hardware ernment seizure of some of his prop­company. The victims included a 10-erty. When Larsen was arrested in
at age 9. Larsen was one of two sus­
year-old girl. Larsen also was con­the counterfeiting case, officials
pects linked to the fires. A 17 -year­
victed of lewd behavior with a 16-seized a duplicator, a printer, cam­
old boy whose name wasn't released
year-old boy and has been arrested era equipment and a station wagon,
was arrested in one of the wildfires. 
on charges of assault and arson. said an affidavit from FBI Agent
Anaheim fire investigator Mike
Less than a year after he was Richard Palacios. "The (Fedbuster)
Feeney wouldn't say what charges
released from a state mental hospital writer refers specifically to the
would be sought. "It's an arson
in 1975, he was accused of attempt­seizure of his vehicle, saying, among
investigation," he said Tuesday. On 
ing to set fire to the Sands hotel in other things, that 'when they took
Monday, Larsen was ordered held 
Las Vegas. He wasn't convicted. He (stole) my vehicle they screwed with
without bond in the "Fedbuster" 
also was arrested on an arson charge my sex life,"' the affidavit said. 
investigation. A U.S. magistrate 
Moriarty of Hampden Superior Court suspended the sen­
Goldberg and Danson confirm their breakup 
tence. On Tuesday, Moriarty ordered Garafolo to prison for violating his 15-year probation by robbing one of the banks again -the Springfield branch of Northeast
LOS ANGELES 
Savings. This time he was in a wheelchair. In the latest
Hear Ye! Hear Ye! The Whoopi-Ted 
bank robbery, Garafolo rolled his chair into the bank
romance is over. The couple confirmed 
Sept. 28 and demanded money from a teller, police said. 
Tuesday what gossip columnists have reported for nearly a week: They have parted as friends after 18 months. 
Lebanese trade bullets for paint pellets 
"Although we had hoped, perhaps naively, that we could keep our private lives private, it has become increasingly 
BEIHUT, Lebanon
apparent that this is not possible," 
Former militiamen are digging their camouflage
Goldberg and Danson said in a state­
fatigues out of the closet, and bullets are whizzing again 
ment. "We look forward to working together again in the 
in the hills overlooking Beirut. Yes, Lebanon's civil war
future and hope that we may do so without the kind of 
is over. This time around, the Lebanese are only playing 
media scrutiny we have been subjected to over the past 
at war, using phony guns with exploding pellets filled
year," the statement said. Last month, Danson was criti­
with pink and orange paint. "One gets the same sensa­
cized for donning blackface during an Oct. 8 Friars Club 
tion of war, the same Adrenaline rush. The only differ­
roast for Miss Goldberg. He also used a racial epithet and 
ence is you don't die," said George Abboud, a 31-year-old
joked about the couple's sex life. Critics called Danson's 
former militiaman. Abboud owns the Dbaye Country
appearance tasteless and racist. Miss Goldberg defended 
Club, where he introduced the U.S.-invented game a
Danson, saying she helped prepare much of his material. 
month ago. He plans to seek government approval to stage an international paintball tournament in downtown Beirut, a war-shattered setting that would add a touch of
No pity for repeat offender wheelchair robber 
reality to the game. ''I'm sure our team will win. It's the only sport that the Lebanese can compete in internation­ally and win," said Abboud, a Maronite Christian who
SPHINGFIELD, Mass. 
was 13 when he began lighting with real guns. "I wish
A judge who once pitied a robber paralyzed by a shop­
we had paintball before the war. We wouldn't have
keeper's bullet showed wasn't so forgiving when the 
destroyed this country." But it also provides comic relief. 
same man returned Tuesday, this time accused of a bank 
"In real war you don't laugh. You kill and you can get
heist in his wheelchair. Anthony Garafolo, 33, of Holyoke 
killed," said Marwan Dinard, 28, a mechanic who was a
rolled himself from the courtroom, escorted by security 
gunner with the Lebanese Forces, a Christian militia. "I
officers, to begin his term of 15 to 25 years in state 
want to take part in the game because I want to try to
prison. In 1990, Garafolo pleaded guilty in the wake of a 
recapture my childhood when we used to play with water
four-day robbery spree that included two banks and a 
guns," Abu Saad said. "The war forced us to skip our
liquor store. It ended when the store's shopkeeper fired a 
youth, to grow up fast-too fast." 
gun at Garafolo, which paralyzed him, and Judge John 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 10.
Wednesday, Nov. 10 Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 54° I 
............... ...a....a... ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H L Columbus 54 25 New York 52 40 Atlanta 53 44 Dallas 59 50 Paris 52 43 Athens 73 61 Los Angeles 78 56 Philadelphia 54 33 Baltimore 54 27 Miami 82 78 San Francisco 62 53
q,~,~q 6.fr. Q (f ~ u 
Boston 50 34 Minneapolis 42 25 Seattle 47 33 
Charlotte 51 37 Montreal 50 20 Toronto 38 28 Chicago 53 24 New Orleans 53 39 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoetated Press GraptucsNel Cl1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 





Wednesday, November 10, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Deane honored \Vith Irish Studies title Saint Mary's 

discusses service role 
By PATTI CARSON NewsWrirer 
Saint Mary's College President Wiliam Hickey and Vice President and Dean of Faculty Dorothy Feigl attended 
!:H1:1jl1llliRJ\IJ3jhlf:hi!H Ill 
the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting last night to discuss the proposal for the Saint Mary's Christian Service Center (SMCSC) with student government members. 
It has been established that 
Sister Miriam Cooney believes 
that the center would be a liai­
son between students and the 
sisters of Holy Cross, according 
to Feigl. Students obviously 
see a need for the center, said 
Feigl. 
"Clearly there is a need for the SMCSC," said BOG member Jen Collins. "It seems that Saint Mary's students are dri­ven to serve but there is a need to centralize all of the service facilities in order to simplify the process for students." 
The idea of either expanding 
upon or phasing out the Spes 
Unica Resource & Development 
(SURV) center was also dis­
cussed. "It is not realistic to 
think that a student run orga­
nization like SURV can ade­
quately meet the needs of such 
a large number of students 
looking to serve the communi­
ty," said Student Activities 
Director Georgeanna 
Rosenbush. 
According to Rosenbush, 
"SURV has been developed this 
year by the efforts of student 
coordinator Kristen Johnson, 
but we need a center with a 
full staff to guide students." 
BOG members also decided 
to explore the service centers 
of other colleges which are 
similar to Saint Mary's in size 
and enrollment. 
"I certainly agree that there 
is an interest in service on the 
part of the Saint Mary's family. 
The alumnae clubs of both St. 
Louis and Washington D.C. are 
co-sponsoring summer student 
service internships," according 
to Hickey. "The call 1to serve 
goes beyond undergraduate 
years." 
We definitely want some 
feedback from students, said 
Student Government President 
Mary Beth Wilkinson. "The 
need for the center is evident 
to BOG members but we defi­
nitely want to hear students' 
views before coming to any 
conclusions." 

NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
1------F•L•O•R•I•D•A ------1 
DA YTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEA1CH ORLANDOIWALT DISNEY WORLD 
1-----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O ------1 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
LAS VEGAS 
S•O•U•T•H C•A•R•O•L•l•N 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1• BOO •SUNCHASE 

By LIZ FORAN News Writer 
Irish literature has been filled with both tragedy and op­timism through the period from 1800 to the present, according to Seamus Deane, Keough Chair in Irish Studies at Notre Dame. 
In his lecture entitled "Extraterritorial: The Production of Cultural Space in Modern Irish Writing," Deane stressed how Ireland for years was regarded by the British as an untamed society. 
Deane's lecture marked the first since his inauguration on Tuesday Nov. 9, where he was honored with title of the Donald and Marilyn Keough Professor of Irish Studies. Deane spent thirteen years as a professor at University College in Dublin before being chosen for this position. He has distinguished himself in the areas of Irish poetry, literary criticism and political history. 
"The Irish were regarded as a barbarous, uncivilized, un­tamable people who must be brought under English rule for the safety of England," said Deane. Ireland was considered by the British in the early 1800s to be a "parasitical faction that must be dealt with carefully in order to protect civilized British society from the uncivi­lized Irish." 
In some of the first books on Ireland, called travel literature, Ireland was portrayed as a 
With Visa0 you'll be accepted at more than 
country "sorely in need of ci­vility which England could bring." 
The uncivilized nature of the Irish people according to the lit­erature of this time period was referred to as the "Irish National Character," according to Deane. This "character" was said to contain ingrained de­fects which made civilization by the British impossible. 
One of the first authors to 
~.
• 
write about Ireland from within its borders was Maria Edgeworth. Her novels were of didactic intent, and like previ­ous writers on Ireland, she sup­ported the claim that the Irish were a different and un­convertable people in her nov­els. Again, she never refers to the political or economic rea­sons for many of the Irish prob­lems. 
True Irish writers began to emerge in the later 1800s. These novels claimed that "Ireland could be converted to civility if its people were al­lowed political rights. Until then it would remain plagued by romantic violence," according to Deane. 
Unfortunately, many readers were so caught up in the emo­tional appeal of the novels, that their political relevance was largely ignored, said Deane. 
The Irish Goethic Era, which produced such works as Dracula, centered on the fear and uncertainty of the Irish people. Many of these works centered on ghosts and fear. 

I 0 million places, nearly three times more than American Express. And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------t9Vt~USAioc.1~i----~ 

Wednesday, November 10, 1993 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
NAFTA 
continued from page 1 
Perot, always a lover of the spotlight, may have made a mistake by slipping into his campaigning style, when view­ers were after a solid discus­sion of the issue, according to Frank Reilly, Hank Professor of Finance. 
"He (Perot) is trying to create the world according to Perot­that's something that I don't think we should try to do," Samora said. 
On the other hand, Gore's aggressively positive argu­
ments may have helped win over Americans undecided on the issue, according to Reilly. 
"I feel that Gore's arguments made a big impact," Reilly said. "If an undecided congressman was sitting there trying to make a decision, Gore would really help sway him." 
Although Clinton appears to be 25 votes short for passage of the measure, Reilly expressed confidence that the pro-NAFTA forces could find the necessary votes. 
"If I had to make a wager, I feel confident that NAFTA will indeed pass," he said. "I be­lieve that this debate will help pick up several votes for Clinton." 
Young Kathie Young isn't so young any­more

Classifieds 
Father Time has finally opened the door 


Tickets 
continued from page l 
false student tickets as an unfortunate reality, he is more concerned with students who rip off unknowing buyers. 
"I can't imagine that most students would give up their tickets to a game like this, but given the monetary pressures that are out there, it begins to make sense," he said. 
"It's more disturbing that stu­dents have sold tickets knowing that the people they've sold them to will never get in. Some have sold individual coupons torn out of the ticket booklets, and no one carrying one of those will be let into the stadi­um." 
Though Rakow says that sta­dium security did not crack down on illegal student tickets during the weekend before fall break, some students are still apprehensive about selling their Florida State passes. 
"I sold one friend's Florida State ticket to a blonde guy, and gave him the ID," said Hahn. "My friend has dark hair, so I told him to make sure he wore a hat." 
Some Notre Dame students, though, are not worried about having their tickets confiscated. Notre Dame men are prevented from selling their tickets by a certain football-oriented machismo. 
"We put pressure on guys who sit down during the games," said Wayne Goveia, a senior from Alumni Hall. 
And male Notre Dame stu­dents feel even more pressure when they sell their student tickets. So many of them do it quietly. 
"Whenever guys talk about selling their tickets, they say 'There's no way I would ever do that,"' said one sophomore. "When I mentioned it to my roommate, he said 'What the hell are you doing that for?' He thinks I'm a wuss because I don't want to go to the game, but right now the money just seems more important." 
But that reasoning doesn't work with die-hard fans. 
"It depends on the reason they're selling their tickets," said Goveia. "If they're doing it for the money, then they're missing the spirit of the games. 

continued from page 6 
Must sell immediately! x4·11 06. Justin 
PAIRS OF FSU GA'S: $950/PAIR OR BEST OFFER. CALL JOE @ (219) 634·1624 
FSU GA'S 4-SALE 237-1012 SEBIOIIS OEEEBS ON! VIII 
Personal 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulllime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen col· lect (212)369-2597 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 
Adoption Is Love Loving Indiana medical professionals eager to adopt newborn. MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential. Call our home toll free to hear all about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224-2429. 
2 FSU GAs and Parking Pass for sale. Best offer by 11/11. Call Dave, 4·2246. 
Hey you guys II II Mud wants to buy the t-shirt ,'Why do all the trees on campus bend to the west...?" Call her today so she will no longer be naked. X2575. 
To the Geology Major who helped us with our map on Saturday: Thank You so much for helping usll You areaGODIIIII Molly, Michelle and Amy 
I need a ride down 1-75 to at least Chattanooga forT-giving. If you can help, please call Ken at x4245. 
Are you hungry for Chinese food? Then come to the ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION Sweet is the taste of yearned and waited for age Akin to a tiger's release from its cage Now, on this anniversary of her birth, The jubilee line starts all across the earth On November 10, oh most hallowed day of days The calendar itself erupts in happy praise Days, weeks gladly unite to form a happy whole The sum of all feels peace in its collective soul The entire world rejoices and forms parades And the grand marshall of all is the Queen of Spades The sun has risen in celebration today And the critters rejoice along their merry way Even here, in our little realm secluded, None of the excitement has been precluded The Basilica's spire points up in triumph And the Golden Dome just can't shine bright enough Books and periodicals sing in Unloc And DeBartolo is filled with dancing chalk Oh, overhead projectors shine with glee Laser printers print in praise of thee Yea-even the stairs in Howard Hall rejoice Nay-nothing neglects exultation to voice And we, your friends, join in the universal song As restored has been all good and righted all wrong 
Quality Copies, Quickly THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631-COPY 
Ang, Mol, and Ann "What are you doing?" "Rockin & Rollin & Whatnot!" 
Vic 
Congrats Barb! We knew you could do ill "Hoop" there it isl 
Love, 
Vic & Min 
Victor Victor Victor Physics Physics Physics Rock On 
We bring Death! 

All juniors are invited to come to the class dinner at Bruno's from 


6:30-8:00 pm Thursday, November 11th 

ASIAN DINNER NIGHT 

Wednesday, 6 p.m., CSC if your have questions or would 
like to purchase a ticket call Jeannie(x4978) or Erica(x4950) tickets are $5, $4 for paid 
members 

HOUSE PARTYIIHOUSE PARTY!! 
hosted by the 
ASIAN AMERICAN 
ASSOCIATION 
Friday, Nov. 12, 9:30pm-1:30am 
LaFortune Ballroom 
admission: $3, $2 for paid 

members HOUSEPARTY!!HOUSEPARTYII 
Ode to Kathie Young on the Occasion of her Twenty-First Birthday November 1 0, 1993 
***************************** 
* ** 
* Maple lane * * *
* 
* ** ** 
* * 
* Barber S~op * * * * 
* ••Mtin9 * 
** 

* /b. No/,.. Dom• Communily * 
** *

* lor ov•r 32 11•ort 
** ** 

* 2112 South Bend Avenue * *
* 
* {ac,.ou fl"<lm 1J.. nnt< Mo3rlin '•) * 
** 

* CLOSED Ttl.JPSDAY"> * 
** ** 

* IT2-0I'J2 * *
* 
·······•********************* 

Interested in bringing the 
A.JI]J))$ !P1!@ffre~fl JNIrnware ~WJiiOfl 


to Notre Dame? 
Attend meeting at 6:30 pm in Student Government-2nd Floor LaFortune 

?'s call Shannon Pharr at 1-7 668 

Wednesday, November I 0, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Nanni receives service aw-ard ND Provost sides against 
By ANNMARIE ZELL NewsWrirer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has awarded Louis Nanni, the executive director of 
South Bend's Center for the Homeless, the 1994 Thomas Dooley Award for humani­tarian service. 
"I certainly don't feel deserving," 


Nanni said in Nanni reaction to the award. "It embarrasses me a little when I consider the num­ber of other people, many of them on the staff at the home­less center, who also deserve awards for their commitment to the center." 
Peter Pranica, director of alumni community service pro­grams for the Alumni Association, accredits much of the success of the homeless shelter, which has been rec­ognized as one of the best in the country, to Nanni. The South Bend shelter is known for its ability not only to house and feed its inhabitants but also for providing a variety of service including alcohol and drug abuse treatment, literacy classes and job placement. 
Pranica said the range of ser­vices at the shelter fit into Nanni's "vision of treating the whole person." 
"Nanni helps people raise their self esteems, thereby ren­dering them more able to tack­le other problems," said Pranica. "Nanni treats all peo­ple he meets as if they are cherished in the eyes of God. He is a great person, Christian and Catholic." 
According to Pranica, "Being a director of the homeless shel­ter, is not what he does, it's what he is." 
As an undergraduate at Notre Dame, Nanni participated in the big brother and little sister program for three years. After graduation, Nanni went to Chili to teach as a Holy Cross Associate, and he returned to Notre Dame for his masters in peace studies. 
Nanni then became the World Mission officer of the Catholic diocese in Orlando. Wanting to more fully understand poverty in the United States, Nanni eventually became the director of the South Bend Homeless Shelter. 
Nanni will receive the award in the Joyce Athletic and Convocations Center during the half time break of the Notre Dame/Providence basketball game. "Beyond my deep grati­tude for the award," Nanni said, "I feel really blessed to be a part of the Notre Dame com­munity and I thank the com-

Stepan Center ND/SMC/HCC Students $10 General $15 STUDENT UNION BOARD special guest Sun 60 Crazy Stuff and More!! ! tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk  
HOMEMADE ITALIAN WITHOUT THE HOMEWORK. Real Italian wsagna for just $3.69 And unlimited breadsticks with every dine-in entree Real Italian. Real Fast 317 W. McKinley, Mishawaka/255-2551/52770 U.S. Rt. 33N/277·4008  

releasing salary levels 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT of salaries as well as a NewsWrirer comparison between the University and its 10 closest 
Highlighting Tuesday peer institutions. evening's Faculty Senate meet­In other business, the ing was a report by the Senate Senate's Student Affairs Subcommittee on Faculty Committee reported that its Benefits. Committee Chairman meeting with the Women's 
Resource Center members had
FACULTY SENATE 
to be postponed. 
John Affleck-Graves said that The Senate Chairman re­
the University Provost recom­ported that University 
mended against releasing President Father Edward 
salary levels by college and by Malloy responded to the 
rank to the Senate. Senate's suggestion to consider 
Senators discussed the fea­alternative safe access routes 
sibility of having the Benefits to campus for pedestrians and 
Committee conduct its own bicyclers. In response, Malloy 
survey on this issue. The com­said that the administration 
mittee plans to have a draft of "will do everything we can to 
a faculty salary survey pre­be a cooperative partner" in 
pared for the Senate's researching and implementing 
December meeting. A sugges­such alternatives. 
tion was made that the Following the meeting, the 
committee ought to consider a Senate broke into sub-commit­
inter-departmental comparison tees for further discussion. 
U.S. reps searching for HIV exposed citizens in Germany 
By GEORGE BOEHMER are or have been a significant Associated Press number of Americans infected as a result of contaminated UB HEIDELBERG, Germany Plasma products," U.S. Air 
The U.S. military is searching Force Major Gen. Vernon for Americans who received Chong, surgeon general of the blood transfusions in German U.S. European Command, said hospitals. But chances are at a news conference. small that they received HIV­UB Plasma, a Koblenz-based tainted blood in Germany's blood bank, was shut down by widening scandal, officials said. German officials Oct. 28 and 
"We do not want to minimize accused of failing to properly the risk of infection, however, test its products for HIV. the we do not believe that there virus that causes AIDS. 
OHN DENSMORE, DRUMMER FOR THE DOORS LIVE IN CONCERT! 
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7 p.m. 
$12 Reserved Seating Price includes admission to an infor­mal book signing reception for his book 
"Riding on the Storm: The Doors, The Sixties, & Now" 
Tickets available at Morris Civic (219) 235-9190 and 1-800-537-6415. 

THOMAS GEOGHEGAN' 
Chicago Labor Attorney and Authm· 
"Passionate Unions: Labor Law Reform and Economic Recovery" 
Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
4:30 p.m. 
Law School Courtroom 
S.ponsored By: Higgins Labor Research Center Center for Social Concerns Economics Department White Center on Law & Government 


...... ....--------------------------~---~---~-------------­
page 6 

Classifieds 
continued from page II 
I have best seats at World Cup 94 (Real Football)->! will trade them for FSU GA's. Bill: 273-2823. 
Alumni is looking to trade 4 FSU Ga's and cash for better seats. Also in need of BC stud.+ Ga's. Call216-867-5775 
2 FSU GAS BEST OFFER X0715 BETTY 
1 FSU GA 
BEST OFFER 
273-4193 
TRACY 
NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$ LV MSG @ X2859 SHANNON 
FOR SALE-ONE FSU GA X3436 ASK FOR BRENDAN 
ORANGE FIELD Pass needed! In-Laws need pass to party for FSU game. Please Help! 299-0641. 
Need FSU Stu & GA Tix Ericx1087 
FSU stud. tix for sale Reasonable Price Call Heather at 284-5097 
!!CHECK IT OUTII I have tix for sale on the 50 yard line. know you want them so call x0824 and make an offer 
2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 313-851­0614. 
For Sale: FSU GA's & Stud. Cal J Lisa@ 259-8135 
Selling FSU Stu tckt. Best Offer 233-9382 alterS P.M. 
r 

FROM CHICAGO 
UNCLE JOHN'S BAND 
Wednesday November 10, 1O:OOpm AI HEARTlAND 222 South Michigan Street Downtown South Bend -(219) 234-5200 
ACOMEDY BY 
LARRY SHUE 
DIRECTED BY 
JAMES P. BIRDER 
ND FSU tix 4 sale call with best offer X4220 
For Sale Sale. 2 FSU stu, 272-3263. Best Offer 
FSU STUD BEST OFFER BY TH EVE x1692 
For sale: FSU GA. call Chris @ 217-337-7605 
2FSU GAs 4SALE-CALL JON 215-630­9329 
FSU STUD TIX FOR SALE Call Scott at x-1071 
NEED 2 FSU STUD OR GA'S FOR MY LIT­TLE BROTHERS. DAVE (313) 851-8498. 
2 FSU Mar. St. Tlx 4 sale. Best offer over $400 takes pair. Call 234-3442. 
4sale FSU tix X4405 
2 FSU Married Stud Tixs 4 sale, call 273­1176 after 6 pm 
Need FSU GA OR STUD TIX CALL MIKE X1651 
FOR SALE: 1 FSU STU. TIX. CALL BOB X1686 
ANYONE WANT MY LAST TWO STUD TIX? SERIOUS OFFERS ONLY @237­9702 
NEED FLA. ST. TIX STUDENTS & GA'S 
WILL TRADE FREE AIRLINE TICKET TO ANYWHERE IN U.S. PLUS$. 
PLEASE CALL MIKE AT: 259·4986 
I NEED 1 BC GA OR STUD TIX!!I PLEASE CALL DANIELLE X2619 

THURS., FRI., SAT., NOV. 11. 12, 13 AT 8 P.M. 
SUN.. NOV. 14 AT 2:30P.M.  
MOREAU CENTER/UTILE THEATRE  ~~~f!J~-~  
TICKETS $4 SM'S-ND COMMUNITIES; $3 STUDENTS; ON SALE AT THE  Saint Mary's Colle~ NOTRE DAME·JNDIANA  
SAINT MARY"S BOX OFFICE; INFORMATION.  
CHARGE ORDERS: 2191264-4626.  

The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
4SALE: 2 FSU GA'S (50 yd In) Call (201) 568-7155 (7-10 pm.) 
For Sale: 2 FSU GA's Ryan x3679 
2 FSU MARRIED STUDENT TIX FOR SALEI CALL 273-5945 
FOR $ALEII 2 FSU/ND GA'S CALL 634-3434 WI BE$T OFFERIII 
ONE FSU STUD TICKET 4 SALE BEST OFFER X0727 
NEED FSU TIX STUD OR GA x4519 
FSU Stud. Tick. 4 Sale Best Offer 634 4433 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
FOR SALE 
FLA. ST. GA'S (1 or 2) 
BEST OFFER 
277-4953 
can leave message 
will return calls of best offers 
+++++++++++++++++++++~+++++ 
2 FSU STUD. TIX BEST OFFER X 2969 
FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA'S. 273-9638. 
NEED 1 ND-FSU FEMALE STUDENT TICKETII PLEASE CALL RICH X-4499 
FLORIDA ST. GAS FOR SALE CALL PAT AT 232-3807 
Flesh & Bone {R) 1:45, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00 Malice (R)2:45, 5:00, 7:30, 9:30 
No 7:30 showing on Sat, Nov. 6, 
Sneak Preview of "My Life" (PG13) 
Rudy (PG)1:30, 4:15,7:00,9:45 
# $ 
FSU GA'S 
@ 
Brett 273-0986 
" 
2 FSU stud. tix for sale, IDs included. Best offerx3253 
Notre Dame vs. Florida State tickets want­ed. Paying 150.00+ for any ticket. Call IDEAL Ticket Service 1-800-477-8457 
$$$$$$$$$$ Desparately need 4 BC GA'sl Will pay BIG $$'sll Call Sara NOW @ 273-5126. $$$$$$$$$$ 
$500 for two (2) FS stu. Tix ! First caller. thank you. X2212 
1 FSU Student ticket for sale. Call Christy with best offer at 634-2966. 
1 FSU Stud. ticket for sale. Call Tanya with best offer at 634-2978. 
I have 2 mar'd stud BC's & $. You have 2 FSU's. Please call me Wed night or Thurs. 
a.m. so we can deal! 234-9209 
Sexuality, Drugs, Alcohol, SeK-Esteem 

/Ue you In.-control? 
• HNh• the el'enln~ oerMoniH •• C•..ledlolc Parle for P'DI'e John Pa•l II 
• td PI••• In the renown.. S•n Freno..oo 
lnter...t~on•l s......., eo...~~y eo...,....... 
• At~un4 •• tile Ttnltht Shew, NBC Pro}let Pueeel T~ SU., 
,••••,..sh.., PBS n .....Wl.. Sptellk. Tul, WI ,., Hire..... 
Wednesday, Nwemher 10 


Carroll Aaditorium/SMC 7:15 p.m. 
~o111tHIIy Salll Marrs Ctllet• RttWa~et ••• Anllli••· w.n.... &Staall AdWHitt 
FOR SALE. ONE FSU GA. $550 TO FIRST CALLER. 271-1681 
Have FSU GAS. Call Bruce at 517-835­3291 between 8 and 5. 
Have FSU GAS. Call Bruce at 517-835­3291 between 8 and 5. 

Have FSU and BC GAS. Call Bruce at 517­835-3291 between 8 and 5 until Friday at 5. 
Have FSU and BC GAS. Call Bruce at 517­835-3291 between 8 and 5 until Friday at 5. 
HELP! Need 1 BC ticket for Dad. X2454 Rebecca 
I Have 3 BC GA's +2 FSU GA's 
Call Tom @ 271-7807 
···Fsu Student Tix Available••• 5 or 6 Seats Togetherll Call X3506 
If you wish to sell your FSU stud tix to my poor friends for $50 or less, please call X3587. Thanks. 
For sale:FSU GAs. at cost. 

see CLASSIFIEDS/page 4 


TELECOMMlJNICATl()NS 
If you think you've come 1~1r in the past !tnlr ye~1rs. you won't believe how f~1r you could go in the nc\t live. 
If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background._ we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Traveler\' TelecommunJcatHlns Technology Management Program (TTMP). 
The most comprehensive training program of it's 1-: ind in the financial serv 1ces industry, 1TMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-;trt rekcommunications environment. Through a variety of rotational assignments and supplemental classroom study, TTMP is singly focused on developing the managers who will 
keep us on the cutting edge. 
If you have signed up to interview, or haven't signed up but are interested in 
finding out more..... . 
Come to the TTMP ll{{ormation Session: 
\Vednesday, November 10, 1993 7 P.l\1. LaFortune Student Center, Sorin Room 


TheTravelersJ ~ 
You're better off under the u111hrcll~t.' 

------~-------~-~-~-----·--------------,
'... ' 

Wednesday, November 10, 1993 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
The Anatomy of the Gtibank 
Oassic card: a body of services and peace of mind for StUdentS. For years, scientists could only theorize about the Citibank Classic VISa® card, unable to actually observe anything below its epidermal surface (i.e. the plastic). Surely, the highly intelligent services were evidence ofan advanced brain. But with the latest advances in x-ray technology, and when the light could catch the various parts just so, it was confirmed: the Citibank Classic VISa card 
is head to toe more evolved than ever imagined. ~ At its


Fig. A · Fig.B backbone are 3 services to cover the purchases you make on the card. Starting at the Lower Costal Spine, we see Gtibank Price Protection can assure you of the best price. All you have to do is discover the same item Scientists theorize that the mind ofthe Citibank Classic Visa advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank 
cardmember (Fig. A) is secure because it receives superior service; the mind ofthe non-Citibank Classic Visa cardmember (Fig. B) is not secure because-could it be-it has a screw loose? will refund the difference up to"$150~ Along the Oops-It-
Slipped Disc, Buyers Security•m can cover those purchases against accidental damage, fire or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase'; and Citibank Lifetime Warranty•m allows one to extend the warranty for the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years2• So ifyou ever buy a walkman, a stereo, whatever, it will be reassuring to know that Citibank can bend and be fleXIble while still lending support. ~ The backbone is then connected to the cranium or headbone. You can actually see it on the top left hand comer of the card. Look at the bottom of the page. The Gtibank Photocard has the head ofthe cardholder on it, as well as his or her own signature, right on the front. That way, it will help prevent fraud. It will make a good form of ID as well, since you get to choose your own photo. ~ But what about the Nervous System?The fact is, it doesn't have one, not in the spinal cord nor in the brain. What it has is the Very Calm System. Because even ifyour credit card gets stolen, or gets lost, an involuntary muscle called the Extendus Anewcardeus activates the Lost Wallerm Service which can replace your card usually within 24 hours. ~ As suspected, there's another involuntary muscle: the heart-a beating and caring heart, big enough to give students special discounts and savings. You'll receive a $20 Airfare Discount on domestic flights3; savings on mail order purchases, sports equipment, magazines and music; a low variable interest rate of 15.4%4; and, no annual fee. (In other words, the card itself doesn't cost a forelimb and a hindlimb.)~ Naturally the heart ofthe Citibank VISa card pumps life and personalized customer service into all its parts, 24 hours a day. So no matter what the question you might have concerning your card, you need only call the 800 number. Citibank representatives each have a neck they are eager to stick out for you. They will always lend an ear. Or a hand. They will keep an eye out for you. They will put their best foot forward. Etc. ~ So call to apply. You don't need a job or a cosigner. And call ifyou'd like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic VISa card. The number is 1-800-CITIBANK (1-800-248-4226), extension 19. ~ If we take an overview of the whole body of services that make up the Citibank Classic VISa card, and consider that it will facilitate building a credit history, then you must shake a leg, flex your index finger and call today. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa. 


'Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. 'Certain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at least the minimum based on retail industry data. Details ofcoverage are available in your Summary ofAdditional Program Information. 'Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only.' The Annual Percentage Rate (APR) for purchases is 15.4% as ofl0/93 and may vary quarterly. The APR for cash advances is 19.8%. If a finance charge is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional finance charge for each cash advance tJansaction equal to 2% ofthe amount ofeach cash advance tJansaction; however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. Monarch" Notes are published by Monan:h Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Company. Used by permission of publisher. © 1993 Qtibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC. 
Monarch Notes~ Version: With your purchases covered, no fee, and a low rate, the Citibank Classic VISa card will go easy on your Nervous System. Call 1-800-CITIBANK (1-800-248-4226), extension 19. 

:--------------------------:-:----:-:--:---:--:--:-:---:-:-------------­






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, November I 0, 1993 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

AIDS extends beyond gay world 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAir-IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager...................... Sreph Goldman  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor .................................jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
S>int M•ry's Editor ............. Jennifer H>brych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily rdlecr the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commcnrarics, lcners and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. Vicwpoim spae< is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w aH readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accem/Sa.im Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNicwpoim  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  

Dear Editor: 

There is a significant problem in the presentation of the AIDS crisis by Charles Rice in his Nov. 8 column, "Gay rights supporters should spread word of AIDS." Though he frames his essay as an attempt to cor­rect "a serious disservice" to the lesbian, gay, and bisexual community at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and in the world in general, Rice is actually using the subject of AIDS for another one of his diatribes against homosexuals. In doing so, he perpetuates the truly dangerous myth that AIDS is strictly a gay disease. 
It is true that AIDS is, at this time, most prevalent in the gay community. especially among gay men. This is a fact of the nature of the disease, which is spread through bodily 11uids such as blood and semen. In anal intercourse, the bleeding in the walls of the anus and rectum greatly increases the chance of transmission of IIIV. 
However, Professor Hice fails to note that the rate of HIV in­fection is not a stagnant statis­tic, and that infection is rising most quickly among the population of heterosexual women. This is because of the fact of possible small ruptures of the walls of the vagina, and consequent bleeding. 
This bleeding facilitates infec­tion just as in anal intercourse. In addition, younger women are in the highest risk group in this population, because the vaginal walls in younger women are less strong and more prone to bleeding. 
What really spreads AIDS is a lack of concern and a carr.less nature. In sexual relations, the only guarantee against AIDS is 
DOONESBURY 
BOOP51&! 
abstinence. Barring this, there is safe sex, which means far more than just condoms. Safe sex means being honest about your sexual history. and not being afraid to ask your part­ner about his or her history. 
It means being willing to give up the entire "passionate-sex­with-someone-who-is-relative­ly-a-stranger" idea which is constantly advertised in our pop culture media and acted out in one-night stands. It means getting real, and accept­ing that the fact of AIDS has absolutely changed the face of our world. 
'AIDS is simply not a 
gay disease. It is not only spread by sexu­al contact, as the inci­dences with hemophili­acs, blood transfusion recipients, health care workers, and drug addicts illustrate. AIDS can and will hit all walks of life. Someone does not have to be a homo­sexual drug addict to have AIDS. 
Safe sex means getting tested, and not just once. The test for HIV tests not for the virus itself, but for the antibodies to the virus, and is open to inconsis­tencies and false results. If you are at all sexually active, get tested more than once. If you donate blood, get tested before you donate blood. Do not use the act of donating blood as an HIV test. 
Encourage your friends to get tested. If you have AIDS, and you choose not to get tested though it is easy to do so, you share in the responsibility for the people you infect. even if you are not absolutely sure of your infected status. Choosing not to get tested is choosing to put others at risk. 

The 10,000 hemophiliacs in the nation who have 1-IIV or AIDS did not all get the disease from blood donated by gay peo­ple, no matter what Professor Rice would have us believe. The 32 workers at the Center for Disease Control who have contracted IIIV on the job did not all necessarily get it from gay people. 
AIDS is simply not a gay dis­ease. It is not only spread by sexual contact, as the inci­dences with hemophiliacs, blood transfusion recipients, health care workers, and drug addicts illustrate. AIDS can and will hit all walks of life. Someone does not have to be a homosexual drug addict to have AIDS. 
AIDS is not the wrath of God sent to destroy the world's ho­mosexual population. It is a human disease with which hu­mans must deal, and because of which humans must act re­sponsibly. 
Championing the misconcep­tion that AIDS is a gay disease does absolutely nothing to stop the spread of the disease. In fact, Rice does more to increase the chance that those who do not fully -understand AIDS will contract it and spread it on to others. Rice's perpetuation of dead myths does a grave and dangerous disservice to the en­tire world, gay and straight. 
BILL ALBERTINI 
Junior 
Zahm Hall 
Student Government could use money better elsewhere 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to commend the undergraduates who worked on The Guide for their efforts. I realize that many hours were spent reading and compiling data, writing, editing, proof­reading, and formatting. What resulted, though, was far from the desired goal. Because of the limited number of respons­es from professors, only 80 classes appear in the hand­book. 
I find this to be far from "use­ful and helpful." I'm sure the many other colleges and uni­versities who use a similar pro­gram term it a success because they list a much higher per­centage of course offerings in their handbooks. The Guide fails to provide much informa­tion that can be used during the process of choosing courses because of the limited availabil­ity of classes evaluated, and the lack of any information that critically judges course content, professor performance, and teaching style. 
I feel that this handbook is a colossal waste of time, money and resources. When the piti­ful number of responses was tallied, it would have been a much better idea to revamp the whole idea of a paper hand­book. 
The information that resulted from the evaluations could have been easily incorporated into a computer application and designed in such a way so that a particular class or professor could be typed in and the desired evaluation would appear on the screen. Student Government uses a similar pro­gram for their Job Bank. 
Instead, every single student received a blue-bound paper book that will eventually wind up in the trash. It's such a pity that such a well-intentioned effort contributes to the solid waste problem. 
The money spent on this 
' 1feel that this handbook 
is a colossal waste of time, money and resources. When the pitiful number of responses was tallied, it would have been a much better idea to revamp the whole idea of a paperhandbook. 
handbook could have been bet­ter served if it had been direct­ed towards an environmental source book, much like the one that Stanford University distrib­utes. 
This publication would inform students about recyeling procedures, local environmen­tal groups that they could join or network with, university clubs and organizations dedi­cated to environmental causes, a listing of environmr.ntal courses offered, information on environmental careers, ways to save energy, water, and paper, a listing of activities that explore the local bioregion, and names, addresses, and phone numbers of organizations that support the protection of the environment. 
This type of handbook would be much more "useful and helpful" to the students at Notre Dame than The Guide. 
MOIRE MURRAY 
Co-President 
Srudems for Environmemal Acrion 

OF COUR5C, IT'S NOT RE5AL.L.Y
weu, OUR. Nt-16H­

H&Y, V!VN'T
"OURS," 15/T? TH&{)fAP/JRRAL.­
BrR'5 BACKYARJ? 

WHAT FOOlS I 7l3tl.-YOU
I*toNGS 70 NATUR&, ANV IT
· 15. ANV IT l(}(}KS 

tu&'VE3 7VPAV&
N/fePS TH/3 FIR& 70 RI3NI3IAJ IT­
t.!K£ OURS 15 NEXT. 

%£.F: IT'S AU PAI<T OF 60[)'5 
/3&8N, .. !T0Vf3R.2 
PI/JN'Tn
\ PLAN/ 
\ ! 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The Bible is clear about hate: Hate is 
, 

wrong. 
Bruce Hilton 

---~--------.-.--.-:--..--.' 
Wednesday, November 10, 1993 page 9 

VIEWPOINT 
STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI GAIA SPEAKS 
No NAFTA will ever stop the bleeding in America 
What needs so desperately to be heard typically falls on deaf ears, or ears simply not willing to listen. Such is the case not only with the ears of the propo­nents of NAFTA, but also with its opponents. 
What needs so desperately to be heard is not that NAFTA will create jobs and stimulate the economy. Nor do we need to hear that NAFTA will destroy the environment and lower safety and health standards. What we need to hear is that not this NAFTA or any NAFTA, will be the band-aid that stops the bleeding of a fatally wound­ed economic system. 
Yet, those of us following the NAFTA debate are hearing con­flicting messages, neither of which offer reason for hope. Some economists tell us thou­sands of jobs will be created while others tell us thousands will be lost. Labor unions oppose NAFTA for fear of lost jobs, labor experts claim only by increasing U.S. exports can we create more jobs. Governments promise environ­mental regulations will be strin­gently enforced. Environmentalists claim no precedent has been set for such regulation. 
What's worse is that public debate of NAFTA has been vir­tually non-existent. The Canadian government slyly slipped NAFTA passed its popu­lace during a changing admin­istration. The Mexican gov~rn­ment has shoved NAFTA down 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
This Saturday, ixnay on the Tomahawk Chop 
Dear Editor:: 
With everyone gearing up for 
the Florida State game, I want 
to simply request a small favor 
of the student body. Please do 
not participate in the imperial 
march cheer (you might know 
it better as the "Gator chant"). 
We are not the Florida Gators 
and I really think two football 
seasons is a little long to ride 
the wave of glory of beating the 
gators. 
I give the band credit for not 
doing the gator clap, but l think 
the band's tomahawk chop 
may be a little inappropriate 
against FSU as well. I highly 
doubt the FSU fans have been 
practicing the "Lou cheer" in 
preparation for our showdown, 
so let's not let FSU know we 
have been practicing their 
cheer. 
ROBIN DUSEK 
Junior 
Breen-Phillips Hall 
\ \' I / 
\ \ I I 
-

--/ ----/ //
/

/ /// I 1
// I I

/ . / I I { / I I I f
/ /I / I . 
1 

/1, 1 ! 1 
the throats of its citizens, not to mention the millions of dollars it has spent to feed NAFTA to Americans on a silver spoon. 
Now, with NAFTA approach­ing a vote in Congress, President Clinton hopes to sway another forty members of the House with nicely packaged side deals that will benefit the constituencies of important power-wielding legislators. 
So who supports NAFT A beside the American, Canadian and Mexican governments? The major corporations in each of those countries. After all, they are the ones who will benefit most. With new markets and cheaper labor major corpora­tions will be able to distribute their products continent-wide and at low costs. 
But supposing the North American continent is opened up to unrestricted exploitation, development and consumption of goods, we will eventually over-extend ourselves just as America has done, and begin to explore the rest of the world as potential markets. In fact, the Global Agreement on Trade and Tariffs, a global trade agree­ment, is already in the works. What will we do when free 
{,
·' 
global trade leads· to the destruction of not just a coun­try, and not just a continent, but an entire planet? 
Eventually, we will have to concede three things: that mar­kets have limits and are not open-ended; that, barring an infinitely increasing population, consumers are limited; and that the buying power of consumers is bounded-wealth is not infi­nite on this planet. 
Understanding this it should make perfect sense that no international trade agreement can even begin to hope to solve the problems of a continent, let alone a planet. NAFTA promis­es a situation in which capital­ist culture will be globalized. Nifty gadgets like microwaves and VCRs will be available worldwide. 
Before we go peddling these goods around the world, we should realize that not only does the rest of the world not need them, but we would be better off without them as well. Besides, much of the world lacks the resources to "benefit" from such products. 
We should value diversity of cultures. What would a world be like in which everyone could buy a Big Mac and wear Guess Jeans? Or where everyone watched CNN and drank Coca­Cola? A mono-cultural world would be devastating in numer­ous ways. 
If there is strength in diversi­ty, for instance, then a mono­culture would create a stagnant condition in which humans would be slow to learn and even slower to adapt to chang­ing environmental condlitions. 
Not this NAFTA, nor any other NAFTA, nor any GATT can promise to strengthen the cul­tural diversity that is so integral to human and planetary sur­vival. 
Therefore, when NAFTA comes before the House in less than two weeks, the cry should not be "Not this NAFTA!" but "Not any NAFTA!" 
Stephen Zavestoski is an earth-dweller from the Pacific Coast bioregion. 
New Testament clear on hypocritical moralzing 
Dear Editor: tions, originally established to 
Charles Rice may be comfort­serve gay men, quickRy found able living within the confines their mandate broadened and of a narrowly circumscribed their resources strained as they world in which reason and undertook _efforts to prevent the empirical evidence can be virus from taking hold in other shunned when they might hin­communities. The public sup­der his musings. The opinions port which should have been regularly offered up in his col­forthcoming in the early stages umn in The Observer generally of an epidemic was virtually serve only to underscore the nonexistent because the earli­intellectual and moral limita­est victims were portrayed as tions of living in a world such marginal and disposable mem­as his and thus undermine his bers of American society: gay intent. Rice's most recent offer­men, injection-drug users, and ing was so irresponsible, how­ual men and women the rates public and political debate dur­persons of color. Only when ever, that an extended response of infection are growing expo­ing the last decade and a half. risk to the white, heterosexual is necessary. nentially; no thought was given We pleaded in vain as research population was perceived did a 
In attacking the 276 faculty to evidence demonstrating that efforts to isolate the cause of nascent public healtlh effort and staff members who signed the incidence of sexually trans­AIDS were repeatedly thwarted emerge. a letter supporting the position mitted diseases among lesbian by Reagan Administration offi­Gay men and lesbian women that the Notre Dame communi­women is among the lowest in cials' unwillingness to support largely established the efforts ty embrace the diversity repre­the nation, lower even than any scientific effort that might now in place to educate and sented by its lesbian, gay and among elderly married men. be perceived as benefiting gay serve the general public. They bisexual members, Rice seeks Without doubt, gay men have men. We watched in dismay as responded to a public health to justify his vitriol by blaming been especially and tragically a president callously let an epi­crisis with great responsibility, gays and lesbians for the AIDS impacted by the AIDS crisis in demic rage and refused to even both in their own lives and in pandemic. His compassion this country. Many of us have to speak the word "AIDS." We service to others. For Rice to shines through only for hemo­cared for and, too frequently, waited in horror as hysterical ignore this history and the philiacs and children, "the buried our friends and our quarantine policies were dis­beneficence of lesbians and gay innocent victims of the plague companions. We have cried cussed in coldly rational tones. men in educating the wider unleashed by homosexual activ­with parents as they mourned We listened in disbelief as public about HIV, in providing ity." This argumentation is odi­the loss of a son taken in his William F. Buckley promoted care for those living wilth AIDS, ous, appealing to people's prime. We support friends the idea of tattooing those and in working to stem the basest instincts to promote an heroically battling the ravages found to have been exposed to virus' spr~ad into other com­agenda not readily bolstered by of full-blown AIDS and others the virus, apparently unaware munities, is irresponsible; to reason. who remain healthy but are liv­or unconcerned about the par­condemn gay men and lesbians 
Rice ignores epidemiological ing with HIV, struggling to pur­allels to Nazi Germany. for the AIDS pandemic is inde­evidence undermining his cru­sue their dreams under the With the public largely unre­fensible. sade against lesbians and gay cloud of a sickness which may sponsive to an ever-growing The New Testament, largely 
men. No mention is made of the not reveal itself for a decade or crisis, lesbians and gay men silent on issues of sexuality. is fact that the majority of those more. No one need inform us of sought to fill the gap. As a unambiguous in its condemna­infected with HIV worldwide the horror of AIDS. result, institutions providing tion of the hypocritical moraliz­acquired the virus through het­At the same time, however, care for persons with AIDS and ing of legal scholars. Charles erosexual intercourse; no atten­we are aware that the vast those educating the public on Rice might do well to take heed. tion was given to the declining wajority of the infections could the facts of AIDS and HIV trans­rates of new HIV infections have been prevented if atti­mission were established with JOHN BLANDFORD among gay men in the United tudes like those expressed by private funds and through vol­Graduate Srudem in Economics States, while among heterosex-Rice had not dominated the unteer efforts. These institu-South Bend 


·----·-----··---.-. 




ACCENT 
page 10 Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
SUSIE'S BEDTIME STORIES 
Somewhere 
over the 

rainbow 

For years and years Susie's been told that there is always a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow. Now it's rare that Susie sees rainbows. Sure, in South Bend there's more than enough rain ... day after day. But the rainbows are few and far between. 
Kenya Johnson 
One glorious day Susie Accent Editor caught a glimpse of a rain­bow and decided once and for all she was going to find that pot of gold. She dropped everything and ran in the direc­tion of the rainbow. 

While on her journey, Susie saw a beautiful yellow rose. As she went to pick it from the ground the rose came to life. 
"Little girl," the rose said. "You cannot pick me, for I'll shall die." "But you are so beautiful, I want to look at 

you while I go to the pot of gold." 
"I am your pot of gold," the rose said. 
"Oh silly rose!, " Susie said as she plucked the rose from it's roots. 

Susie merrily trotted towards the rainbow. Soon she came across a weeping willow. She realized she had traveled so far that she was tired and needed to rest. 
"You would make a great seat, if only I could change you into a stump," said Susie. 
"But little girl, you do not wish me to be a stump, for I will die," the weeping willow said back. 
"But I am on my way to find my pot of gold and I need my rest," Susie said. 
"I am your pot of gold," the tree said. 
"Oh silly tree," Susie said as she chopped down the tree and rested her legs. 
The next day Susie started again. She saw finally that she was close to the rainbow. 

"Soon I will have my own pot of gold," Susie exclaimed. 
She saw the beginning of the rainbow and began to run towads the end. On her way, she found a river in her way. 
"I cannot get across you," she said to the river. "You can cross, there is nothing wrong with my water-it is pure," the river said. 
"My shoes will get wet! You are blocking my way to my pot of gold," Susie yelled at the river. 
"I am your pot of gold," the river replied. 
"Oh silly river," Susie said and she dumped enough paper into the river that she was able to cross it. 
Finally Susie made it to the end of the rain­bow. And there she saw a huge black pot. "Oh my goodness," Susie said. "There is so much." 
Susie ran to the pot, stretched onto her tip­pie-toes and peeked into the pot with excite­ment. 
But to Susie's dismay there was nothing in the pot. "Where is all my gold," Susie screamed. 
A voice came from above. 
"You have destroyed your gold," the voice said. Susie realized it was the rainbow speak­ing to her. 
"I have not!" 
"Oh sweet little girl, try to understand," the rainbow said. "Everything around you is a pot of gold -if you let it be. It's not what you have at the end of the journey that a matters; it's what you expereince along the way." 


DEATH OF THE DINOSAURS 
New findings indicate increase in oxygen killed the prehistoric beasts 
BY TANYA KRYWARUCZENKO 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Dinosaurs are extinct...but not for the reasons we think. 
J. Keith Rigby, Jr., a geologist at Notre Dame, along with a group of collaborators, have discovered new scientific information about the oxy­gen levels in the atmosphere during the time of the dinosaurs. which as they found, contributed ultimately to their demise. 
Rigby, along with Richard Hengst, an animal physiologist at Purdue University North Central, Gary Landis, a geochemist with the U.S. Geological Survey, and Robert Sloan. a paleontologist at the University of Minnesota, formed the "Pele Hypothesis" (named after the Polynesian goddess of fire) which links many formerly thought separate geological and biological events. This hypothesis explains that because of the fluctuation of the oxygen in the atmosphere, some events including evolution, extinction and global tem­perature were affected. 
Rigby conducted studies by gather­ing information along with EarthCorps, a group recruited by Earthwatch which coordinates volun­teers for labor intensive research. They extracted air from gas bubbles trapped in amber which has been around since about the time the dinosaurs have been extinct. 
Their samples, gathered from the Hell Creek region of eastern Montana, showed that "the oxygen levels were incredibly high," said Rigby. "This caused problems because the oxygen level in the atmosphere was as high as 35 percent." The normal oxygen level in the atmosphere is 21 percent. 
At times, the oxygen level fluctuat­
ed from 35 to 28 percent and went up 
again. This fluctuation was 10-20 times faster than previously thought, and this put a tremendous strain on many species. 
"These findings created a real fun problem," said Rigby. "Here's some­thing not to be expected in one way, but seemed perfectly logical in anoth­er." 
As a result of these findings, Rigby and his collaborators explain that because of the rapid decline in the oxygen level, this affected dinosaur breathing, thus causing the demise of the animals. However. animals with low oxygen needs, like amphibians and reptiles, were able to survive this rapid fluctuation. 
"After receiving information about the oxygen levels, Hengst was the one who began asking questions about breathing and how this put physiolog­ical limits on the dinosaurs," said Rigby. 
"With these declining oxygen levels, all the dinosaurs could do was stand still, " said Hengst. 
The "Pele Hypothesis" goes against 
the accepted theory of the asteroid impact alone caused the extinction of the species. The dinosaurs became extinct over a 10 million year period and two thirds of them already had died before this asteroid impact, ac­cording to recent evidence collected in China. 
The "Pele Hypothesis" suggests that the reason the oxygen fluctuated was a result of volcanic activity. The swelling of sea floors, along with eruptions under the ocean, raised the sea levels. This increased volcanic activity contributed for high amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmos­phere, which increased plant photo­synthesis. 
The increase in photosynthesis released large amounts of oxygen into the atmosphere. After the volcanoes subsided, production of carbon diox­ide and oxygen dropped and global temperatures returned to normal, which affected these newly evolved animals. 
Research for this study began as early as 1987 by Landis and Robert Berner, Yale University, according to Rigby. 
"I was introduced to Landis and immediately became intrigued by the 
'The oxygen levels were 
incredibly high. This caused problems because the oxygen level in the atmos­phere was as high as 35 per­cent.' 
J. Keith Rigby Jr. 
idea and wanted to help," said Rigby. Rigby became directly involved with the study in 1992. 
"Some were naturally skeptical of this preliminary information," said Rigby. "Oxygen is an incredibly reac­tive element and the idea that it was trapped in an organic compound is a problem for some to understand." 
The problem with the original research conducted by Landis was that the work had a variety of col­lected samples from all over the world, with different ages, said Rigby. He explained that it was important to collect samples from the same area, all within the same deposit. 
After information was collected, the first draft of this manuscript propos­ing these new ideas were written up this past June. 
"When we first got together to start essentially writing the manuscript, we made a list of the consequences which was mind boggling," said Rigby. "The basic question was how do we show people the extent of what was coming out of the 'Pele Hypothesis.'" 
The scientists presented their ideas to an annual meeting of the Geological Society of America in Boston on Oct. 27. 
"Of course, no idea like this is likely to stand up without questions," explained Rigby. He said that a majority of the questions thus far came from the press. 
"The basic question is if the oxygen collected from the amber was valid, and unequivocally, the answer is yes," said Rigby. 
Rigby also said another basic con­cern was if the oxygen level was so high, why didn't the earth explode? 
"What has to be realized is that the high oxygen level was matched with a high carbon dioxide level, 10-12 times normal, which had strong dampening effects on wildfires," explained Rigby. 
"We're reasonably comfortable with our conclusions," said Rigby. "We're comfortable with what we've stated because all of our data available at this time points toward the same conclusion." 
"The important thing to realize is the time scale we are working with. We're talking about 10,000-100,000 years to accumulate these changes," explained Rigby. "These are ex­ceedingly fast in geological terms. However, the individual human in his lifetime is not likely to see the effects due to Pele, but over the effects could be felt over the lifetime of a species." 
Rigby stated that research will con­tinue on this topic in the future. 

~~~...••!!1!1••••••••••••!11•· .. -~~-••••• 

Wednesday, November 10, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
to Baltimore Nov. 25-Nov. 30$100 Need BC Tickets! 2 FSU Tix For Sale -BEST CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -each. call Mary @289-0837 x2846 OFFER!! Call 273-6481 
NOTICES 
Earn up to $2000+/month working 1-BR RESIDENCE INN S.BEND 
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­FOR SALE 86 CAMARO FOR 11/12 & 11/13 PREPAID!! For Sale: 1 FSU stud. tick. Typing panies. World travel (Hawaii, $1 000/BEST OFFER 277-1 004 Need FSU Stu. & GA Eric x1087 CALL W/ BEST OFFER best offer call Derek at x4074 287-4082 Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). (618)2774481 DAYS 
Summer and Full-Time employment 2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. (618)6327571 NTS. WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. available. No experience neces­12-14 $65ea. 508-771-6996 GA's. Call Dan X1694 FSU Student Ticket For Sale CALL 259-8684. sary. For more information call1-B/0 call 4-4435 
206-634-0468 ext. C5584 1989 GEO Spectrum 5 speed, 2 SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT Resumes Lisa 273-6332 door hatch back. 42,000 miles, TICKETS, CALL 289-3865, LEAVE FSU TIX FOR SALE BEACH or SKI Group Promoter. VERY dependable $3500 OBO OFFER. call X1665 CONGRATULATIONSII!II!I!I Small or larger groups. Your's 273-0282 FOR SALE AMY STOECKL FREE, discounted or CASH. Call 2 FSU stud. tix FOR SALE CMil-800-423-5264 Dependable 1986 Plymouth Duster 2 FSU GA'S best offer 11/8/93 1 FSU GA FOR SALE­WINNER OF 2 FSU GA'S Holly 271-8940 call Juliet @ x4899 X1367 SPRING BREAK '94 CANCUN CALL 634-3554 THANKS FOR SUPPORTING Organize trip & travel for FREE + Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP AND LEAVE MESSAGE ... Senior Section Student FSU TICK! Two FSU stud. tix for sale. ND CLUB OF NEW MEXICO CASH Call College Tours (800)395-27S scientific calculator, with Will trade w/ $ for a GOOD GA B.O. Call 273-4168 
4896 -Rick or Louie all documentation. Program Call Chuck soon at x1717 Jean, Jean the Typing Machine -formulas and love life. HP DeskJet IT'S THE SECOND COMING OF fast and friendly! Call 18858 & PAPA JOHN'S is still hiring printer (for IBM). Print in the NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651 For sale: 2 FSU sr stu tix Buy one CHRISTl Saturday November 20, leave msg. drivers and inside personnel privacy of your own room. or both B/0 284-5250 or 284-5258 1993. Notre Dame Indiana. There 
Flexible hours and 50% off Call Rolando at 631-4541. I NEED FSU Studs is just one problem, Jesus doesn't COME LISTEN TO july PAPA JOHN'S Pizza! Kevin x0542 2 FSU Stud senior 4 sale have aG.A. ticket to the B.C. game. WE'RE NOT GRUNGE. Call271-1177 or stop by 2 FSU TIXS FOR SALE CALL call 284-5204 Oh, and Peter wants to come too. ARE WE? 54533 Terrace Lane MARINA X4420 So if you want to get you and your WEDNESDAY NOV. 10TH EOE FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­For sale FSU stud tix. Best offer mother a one way ticket to heaven, DALLOWAYS **-**FSU GA......... ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. Kellie 284-4346 and some speanding money too, SAINT MARY'S COFFEE HOUSE HELP WANTED: Reliable people Best offer by Thurs. CALL DOUG AT 234-6306. CALL: Jesus' agent-284-4451 
needed to work at off-campus Call Dede @ 273-6289 
banquet hall. 5-6 hrslwk, $6-7/hr BOSTON COLLEGE For Sale FSU stud tix Michelle Hesburgh Public Policy Roundtable: call Rachel @ 4-4252 YAMAHA PSR-12 KEYBOARD 4 Sale 2 GA's, $175/offer 284-5086 12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM No discussion on Thurs. Nov. 11. LIKE NEW, NEW $300, MAKE 277-8017 BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND Details to follow. Questions? Mary $$ Need money for Thanksgiving? OFFER. MAGNA TONE 75 WATT WANTED: 2 ND/FSU tickets will STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME Lisa 4-3541 . I Need 4 strong and enthusiastic GUITAR/KEYBOARD AMP WITH NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 pay top$ call Mike leave message -Bryan x1190
.

students to move furniture and VIBRATO & REVERB PEDALS (MARK) 24 hrs, (404) 319-7044. Freshmen: producers of our class boxes/ November 14 from 1 0:00 to $200 CALL JASON, @237-9702 magazine. Experience '97, need 2:00 (approx.). Will guarantee 2 FSU GA tickets for sale. Call your help. We're looking for funny $40.00 -possibly more. (not a big Need 4 Stu. Tix. for BC Call x2187 ask for Tom. anecdotes that have happened dur­move). Please call631-7320 if 1984 RED HONDA CIVIC, 5 Colleen x42785 FSU stud. tix for sale. Call Keith at ing your stay on campus or myths interested. SPEED, 2 DOOR HATCH BACK . 2 STU TIX 4 SALE. BEST OFFER 273-3920. you heard about ND before you VERY DEPENDABLE. $2150/0BO I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON BY 11/10. (219)634-4982 OR arrived. Your ideas would be appre­Student wanted to provide child X3419 COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 2563. 1 FLORIDA STATE STUDENT ciated. Please send/deliver submis­care in our home for two children TICKET FOR SALE sions to 252 Knott or 212 Lewis by (under 4); 6 hrs wk, this and next I have 4 FSU GA's. SELL 2 FSU GAs South Corner 2 Fla Sttickets for sale 683-7275 Call Brian at 234-4276 Wed., Nov. 17. Questions, call semester. Must enjoy children and will accept best offer. Serious$$$ only 277-5912 x4951 or x4135. have transportation. 289-7017 Ask for Laura@ 284-5184 Need 2 std tix FSU 409-762-6645 
2 Hot Babes selling 2 FRONT ROW call collect BAHAMA -CRUISE FSU Studenttixs! ID's optional ­ILOST & FOUND IIL-_F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __. 5 Days 4 niles $288/couple let's negotiate\ 634-9437 NEED TICKETS Need std tix-Big $$$$$$$ 
Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri FLORIDA ST. GA'S $$ LOST Heart Locket KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK­10-5 Sa\407-648-4480 ext. 607 TOP $$$$for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's CALL JOHN X1227 $$ at USC rally EXTREME FAST located 23 miles south of Call Pat @ 273-5094 call Dan 273-0986 Personal value X2485 Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz 94 SPRING BREAK TRIPS REA­1 45 yard line FSU GA for sale. 
Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4 SONABLE PRICES TO JAMAICA, I really, really need 2 B.C. tickets! Call George 634-1748 • • • • • FLORIDA STATE • • • • • 
rooms, full breakfast -week-end PADRE, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, Call Amy @ 4-4954 stud. & GA's for sale BO x2851 LOST!! Two Fall-Jackets during getaway FLORIDA Ill 1 FSU student ticket for sale. Call the weekend of USC game : one 219-586-7090 CALL CHRIS@ (219) 289-2767 2 FSU STUD. TICKETS FOR Kristin with your best offer at 634-For Sale 2 FSU stud lix. BO call light grey with dark grey stripes SALE. CALL #1560 2989. x3299 and one navy-blue with a green BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­UP TO 4 FSU STU. TIX TOGETH­collar. Finder pl. contac\1-4350 ND/SMC EVENTS ER 4 SALE. 20 YD LINE. CALL For sale: FSU -BC stu tix. Best I need 2 GAs for FSU. Call Cori at and leave message any time. (219) 291-7153 X3506. offer. Call Tara 284-5197. I NEED BC GA'S! X4570 as soon as possible. 
X4355 Unbelievable bargain\ $320.00/mo., For Sale: 2 FSU Stud Tix 1 FSU STUD tix for sale. Leave

TICKETS
one bedroom apt., Call x2312 1 FSU STU. TICKET FOR SALE name, #, and offer. 634-3811 LOST Thurs. 11/4 1 small black VERY close to campus and BEST OFFER. CALL MARY BETH pocket knife somewhere between Martin's, carport incl. 273-6304. DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­For Sale: 1 FSU Stud Tic @ X3474 AND LEAVE MESSAGE I FSU STUD ticket for sale. Call T Cav., Wash Hall, Ad bldg, and ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call: Call x2312 at X1480 and make an offer ASAP FLRC. PLEASE CALL JIM x1507 NEED LODGING -GAMES OR A. Raczkowski 
ANY ND OCCASION -CALL 291-(800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums Need tickets-Notre Dame vs. FSU 1 [one) florida st Found: Copy card with lots of 9011 with jobs -will pay big $$$! game. Call Jim (904)788-5060 senior student FOR SALE 1 FSU &BC stud. copies left on it, at the Hesburgh ASAP. free or best offer tx.both $250 call Chichi 4-3503 Library. Call4-4987to claim. 6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS Need 2 GAs for any home game jeff 273 -6445 
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. Call Tim at273-1757 FOR SALE: 3 FSU GA's 
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL best offer by 11/1 0 2 fsu stu 4-sale FSU and BC Stud. tix. Must sell MISSING ND CLASS RING WITH NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 Call Tracey 273-3930 b/o by 11/11 x1841 together. Call 232-2843 FULL NAME ON IT FROM SORIN FSU Stud. Tckt. HALL PURDUE WEEKEND .. LAST Lodging -Riverfront -Private. Best Offer For Sale: 2 FSU GA's. Best WEEKEND OF SEPTEMBER 257-9101. Newman 4-0505 Offer-<:all Soon!! Nick 4-1376 For Sale: FSU G.A.'s and STUD. REWARD $155 IF RETURNED FSU STUD BEST OFFER X2975 Dennis@ 634-1817 OR KNOW OF WHEREABOUTS Lovely B&B 1.5 mi. off-campus. NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­Happy Nov. 13! I have 2 FSU stu OR FLORIDA STATE TICKET. Rooms available 11-12113; LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221-tix 4 u. Call & leave offer. x4420. Need 1-4 BC GA's and 1 Stu 
•· 
PLEASE CALL RYAN AT 2290 11-19/20. 219/287-1073 6183. For Sale: Female student FSU tick­Call Brian x3467 or x0577 et with matching I D. Best offer. ROOMMATE NEEDED We will purchase at handsome 1 FSU G.A. Call4-1464 between 7 and 8.

WANTED 
Spr. Sem. price four seats together for the HIGHEST BIDDER-NEXT 4 DAYS Two 50 yd. line GA's and one 40 Trtle Crk Twnhs Florida State game. Pis. call (800) 314/962-4876 2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BO BY yd. line GA to FSU for sale GREEKS & CLUBS 271-1399 457-0486. NOV. 10 END ZONE, ROW 20. Best offer$$$ 
FOR SALE: 5 FSU stu. tix. Call 219-659-3910 call Brad-(219)273-5970 RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST CA Alum paying top $ for FLA Darel or Tonya a\291-3818. ONE WEEK! For your fraternity, STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 FOR SALE: 2 FLA. ST. GA'S 35 FSU stu tix 4 sale sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for Lodging -Riverfront -Private HAVE 1 FSU GA YARD LINE Best offer: Call 703-call x2461. Best offer by 11/11. yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just 257-9101 92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2tix WANT IT? 759-3349 for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75. to FLORIDA ST $$$. CALL MATTY x1 865 FSU stud tix. $75 or best offer. call 
BED & BREAKFAST exclusively for 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. For sale: FSU stud tix. ID no Teak x4018 
FREE TRIPS & CASH I Call us and ND/SMC parents. Two-night mini­Tix.4 Sale FSU GAs&BCstud. problem Jay x2567 find out how hundreds of students mum. 10 minutes from campus, N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets #1850. FSU stud tix. $50 or best offer. call are already earning FREE TRIPS 272-5640. Call Frank or John 1 FSU GA Call Greg (703)979-2014 Flounder x4246 
and LOTS OF CASH with 1-800-7 49-5975 For sale: 1 FSU stud. call Mike 
America's #1 Spring Break compa­2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES Will trade DISNEY tickets @x2022. FSU stud for sale I have 6 GA's for FSU showdown. ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, NEAR NO B.O. by 11/10 Taking best offer. 273-6082. Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND Tickets for sale: 2 FSU GA's togeth­Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A 232-2595 $$$!!!!CALL TOM 254-9013 er. Call Dan or John, ext. #4289. 273-4178 FSU and/or BC studenttix 
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL BEST OFFER! for sale. Call634-1680. (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­4 Fla. St. Stu. Tix (Sec 32) For Must sell. 
able for parents on weekends. 219-$$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA 2 Florida State G.A's together Sale. Best Offer. x4436 Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break 291-2899. STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$ Call 4-3192 1 FSU GA & 1 STUD tix. Call 272­Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go Best offer by Nov. 10 HELP!! NEED 2 FSU AND 4 BC 1208. Baby needs a new pair of FREE! Best trips & prices! For Sale: GA's for all games. 277-GAS CALL PAT X1689 shoes! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, FOR SALE 1659. For Sale:4 FSU GAs call 634-1833 
Panama City! Great Resume expe­2 FSU GAs 4 Sale rience! 1-800-678-63861 Spring Break! Plan Early -Save FOR SALE!!! Great seats call Ted 4-1699 
$30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices I NEED FLA STATE GA'S!I! I DESPERATELY NEED BC STUD. 2 FSU/ND GA'S SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6 CALL •• 232-5030 •• TIX. CALL JEN@ X 1308 2 FSU/ND STU For Sale: 2 FSU GAs. Call 273­EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I days includes 12 meals $2791 2BC/NDSTU 9805 and Leave Offer. 
Student Travel Services is now hir­Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! NEED 2 FL. ST. STUD TIX, MIKE 2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. BEST CALL 273-5942 WITH BEST ing campus reps. Call @800-648-Cancun from Chicago $439, AT 271-8641 OFFER. MARTY x1521. OFFER 4849. Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key forsale 4 flo st ga 284-5144 
West $239, Daytona Room w/ 1, 2, or 3 FLORIDA STATE STU­FOR SALEIII AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386 Notre Dame-FSU tickets wanted! DENT TICKETS FOR SALE 2 FSU STUD TICKETS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE Please call (407)438-3697 Call 634-2856 AND 2 BC STUD TICKETS FOR SALE: 2 FSU SENIOR STUD WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, 2 FSU GA's 4sale CALL X2855 WITH BEST OFFER TIX together-will separate. IDs EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE BEST OFFER x3489 NEED 1 OR 2 1 FSU & 1 BC STUD 4 SALE!! THROUGH 11/11 incl. I'll throw in BC if I like :vou! 
SUSAN @ X1285 HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER FSU & BC stud tix 4sale FSU STUD FOR SALE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY BOSTON COLLEGE TIX Best offer. 
CALL 634-2856 Jason 232-2263,1-6888 SEASONS. GUARANTEED best offer x3489 Going on Vacation, need to sell PAT X4774 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Florida State student ticket. 4398 EXT31 2 round trip tickets chicago Ohare Best offer Jenn x4831 see CLASSIFIEDS/page 6 
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (91CJ)929­
~.&:J.~.j 21st  
Birthday,  
Kathie!  
We love you,  
Mom, Dad,  
Dan, Suzie,  
Joe & P.J.  
GO REALLY IRISH!  
I  Ireland Program 
i!i!i!  Information Session Tonight November 10  
i!i!i!  7:00p.m. GameRoom, Haggar CollegeCenter Saint Mary's College  
Students discuss travel in Europe and Ireland  
• •~  Everyone welcome!  
~  APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED  

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, _:\l'ovember 10, 1993 
·• 
-..: 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-7471 and let us know. 
Happy 
BeckeP CPA Review COUPSe 
Invites you to attend a presentation on 
..How to prepare lor the CPA Exam and Current Events•• 
Wednesday, November 1 0, 1993 La Fortune Center-Dooley Room 5:00pm 
Pizza and Pop will be served. Drawing for a $50.00 Gift Certificate from the Notre Dame Book Store. 
For further information, call: 
277-4388 


INTERHALL WOMEN'S FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SCHEDULE 
1 Badin 

Nov. 14 1:00 
8 Farley Badin 26-6 Farley 27-20 
4 Pasq. East 5 Howard 

Nov. 21 Notre Dame Stadium3 Lyons 
Nov. 14 2:00 
6 Lewis -------' Lewis 7~6 
-------. Pasq. West 18-0 1------_. 
2 Pasq. West 7 Walsh 




CLASSES 

[F@~ lf~~ ffi\~IUL ~~ 11m ~M 
~ffi\if 
mllUJ~M~nlli!~\Y/~Mrn3~~ 11~ 1JbJ1JbJ ~a ~@tW Uli1J rn3~[M[Q) ffi\\YJ~[M(UJ~ 
~X~~RI~NC~ KA~lAN TOTAl TRAINING ANYTHING R~~ I~ ~ARTIAl ~R~~! 

For more information call 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
Sports and the Media 
On Thursday November 11 Rudy Martzke, USA Today's premiere sports columnist and one of The Sporting News' 100 Most Powerful People in sports, will offer insight to the business side of television in sports and discuss the ND-FSU match-up. Admission is Free LaFortune Ballroom at 8:00pm. 
Interhall 
continued from page 16 
Then on their next. possession Howard scored on an option by junior Sarah Donnelly. Junior Sarah Norton then ran in the extra point to put Howard ahead 27-20. 
The Howard defense then held P.E. to secure the victory. 
Quarterback Sue Wassil thought her team played well coming off two straight losses. "It came down to coaching in sudden death," said Wassil. "Key plays were called and we were able to execute.' 
Badin 26, Farley 6 
Top ranked Badin scored the first two touchdowns of the game in route to a victory over Farley in the first round of the women's playoffs. 

Senior Allison Meriaux caught a touchdown pass from quarterback Shari Shepard to put Badin up 6-0. Meriaux then converted the two point conversion to give Badin a 8-0 lead. 
Shepard then threw her sec­ond touchdown pass of the day, this time to Andrea Ricker. The score was set up by a 40-yard run by Shepard on fourth down. 
Farley then scored before the half to make the score 14-6, in favor of Badin. 
In the second half sophomore Shelly Dillenberger ran an in­terception back for a touch­down to make the score 20-6. 
The deficit proved too much for Farley to overcome as they ended up losing 26-6. Badin will now face Howard in the second round of the playoffs. 
Wednesday, November 10, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
• Men's and Women's soc­cer NCAA regional matches 
will be broadcast live on WHME 
103.1. The women's contests will be broadcast at 11 am Saturday and 12 noon on Sunday. The men's match Will be at 2:30 pm Sunday. 
• Irish Ice Club Hockey will 
be held on Thursday Nov. 11 at 10:45-11:45 p.m., and Sun~ day Nov. 14 at 9-10:00 p.m. Please bring $5 to first scrhn­mage. New members welcome. Call Rob at x1950 or Pete at 273-5059 for more details. 
• A Turkey Shoot will be held on Monday, November 15 and Tuesday, November 16 from 4pm to 6pm. Co-Ree teams of two men and two women. It is open to all under.: grad and graduate students. The shoot is sponsored by Naval ROTC and Rec Sports. Members of the ROTC rifle squad are not eligible. Sign up in advance at RecSports by November, November 11. No 
experience necessary. Call 631­6100 for more info. 
• The RecSporj~ 
Q.tfi offering interhall and gr . hockey and in~rb4U. gtad,,and club basketball with the dead· line being Noverol>er 11 at tbe time of the captains meetings. Hockey meeting is afl)p.-q~., the interball basketball ~et)~ng is at 5:30 p.m. for both men and Wf}rnen, and grad ~nd ~\Jll basketball meeting is s~t for 6 
p.m. ;\.lso, all those W:~reste9 in officiating aU"basketb~U above have a mandatory m¢(lt" ing at 6:30 p.m. All meetipgs are in the JACC Auditorium on November 11. 
• The Rec~pol'ts
offering Camp'us 

Tennis and Cq·Rec W~lly)?&Jl; The dea.dline for this is Novem~ her18th.-The. captains' for wallylm.ll is Th 18th at 5 p.m. ~n:tlj~ 
Auditorium. · ·-·­

•-SportsTalk will air a.Vpte'~ view of the upcomi!lg F§{,J game followed by a men's bas­ketball preview with assistant coach and starter Jimmy Black. Call in with your questions and comments at 631-6400 tonight on WVFI 640 AM at 8p.m. !l'l;r 
Marten 
continued from page 16 
tality. 

Winning the game on Saturday would mean a lot to the players and coaches, but the fans have become almost obsessive about it. 
As a matter of fact, several students have said that when the Irish win there is nothing that Will keep them from rush­ing the field. The students want to celebrate a Win on the field with the players who are their friends, roommates and class-

Club 
continued from page 14 
Gerding, Chris Raffo, Steve Schrantz, Hugh Crowley, Doug Staudmeister, John Fronduti, Chris Bettacchi and Dino Cusumano were in the third­place men's lightweight eight boat. 
Other varsity Irish boats plac­ing included the men's club eight (10th), the men's cham­pioship eight (12th) and the women's lightweight four (9th). 

mates, but it would be a shame to celebrate a win by watching students get injured. 
Two weeks ago a similar cele­bration turned to tragedy when students were trampled after Wisconsin defeated Michigan. Notre Dame sophomore Anne Niebler was at the game in the midst of the chaos. 
"I have never been so scared in my life," said Niebler. "It was 10 times worse than when I got hit by a car last year." 
The only way to avoid a simi­lar situation after Saturday's game is with common sense. Notre Dame security Will prob­ably try to stop a rush for the 
The men's novice eight boats placed 18th and 25th out of 40 and the women's novice eight boats finished 22nd, 29th and 37th out of 41 boats. 
EQUESTRIAN CLUB 
The Notre Dame Equestrian Club travels to Taylor University and Purdue University to compete in shows. 
With the football game, only four members of the club will go to Taylor on Saturday while more than 10 will compete at Purdue. 
field, but the burden of com­mon sense falls on the shoul­ders of the student body. 
Those seated in the last rows of the stadium must realize that it is physically impossible for them to be on the field a second after the game ends. 
If the Irish are winning when the final seconds tick off the clock on Saturday, take a minute to look around. Savor the moment. Soak up the little details. All students must remember that pushing won't get them on the field any faster. A path Will eventually clear. Be patient. Celebrate With the peo­ple seated nearby first. 

Holtz 
continued from page 16 mg his players expenence the excitement. "The real fun comes when you're in the locker room before the game, and the closeness of the football team and all the hopes and the expectations," Holtz said. "I'm very happy to be involved in this for our players. As far as me enjoying it, there isn't any­thing special in it for me." Not yet. 

o<~ We're Still Open P,.. ~ . ~A
ee? 0 Da11y from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. o.oc 
~ ~ 

THE COMMONS 
"The Tradition Continues" 
"One ofAmerica's Leading Thinkers" 
Time & Newsweek Magazines 
THE NOTRE DAME LAW REVIEW IS PLEASED TO PRESENT: 
Planning on being in Connecticut, New Yoril., New Jersey, or Pennsylvania this 
Dr. Russell Kirk 
holiday season? Here's your chance to ring in the New Year with The Prudential. 
If you're an Information Systems, Accounting, Finance, Economics, Business, Math or liberal Arts major, we encourage you to submit your resume for our 
"The Catholic Natural Law Tradition 
review. If you meet our requirements, you'll be invited to interview with us between December 27 and January 14. 
and the American Constitution" 
As one of the world's largest and most diversified financial services organizations, The Prudential offers challenge, diversity, exposure and stability to ambitious, highly-motivated individuals. Send your resume by December 7, to: The Prudential, 
Date: Wednesday, November 10, 1993
Corporate College Relations, Dept. ND, 213 Washington Street, Newark, NJ 07102­3992. An equal opportunity employer. 
Time: 2 p.m. Place: Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND
ThePrudential~
....._.... 
TillS I'HESENTAI'IO:"liS MAIW I'OSSSIHLE TIIROlt(;ll ,\(;RANT B\ TIH: INTERCOLI.E(;JATE STliJ)JES INSTITIITE 

-------------------------------------~--~---~--~----~ ­page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 10, 1993
!, 
• 

Irish rugby places third; water polo downs EMU 
By JENNY MARTEN Associat• Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame Hughy Club finished its fall season last weekend with a third place fin­ish in the Midwest Finals. 
In the tournament opener, Notre Dame fell to Penn State. Although the Irish had a 16-13 lead with 25 minutes remaining in the game, the size and strength of Penn State pre­vailed and the Nittany Lions scored three quick tries for the 30-16 final. Penn State ended up winning the tournament and will represent the Midwest in California in the spring. 
The Irish did win the consola­tion game against second-seed Ohio State, 34-14. Pat Blandford scored two tries while Mike McGowan and Jim Ludwig scored one apiece. Jamie Hill connected on two penalty kicks for the Irish offense. 
The Ohio State game closed a season that saw the Irish. go from an unstable team with a different line-up for every game to the line-up which finished the season with a 10-1 streak. Although the players lack size, Notre Dame's rugby players are some of the scrappiest in the Midwest, according to club president Mike McGowan. 
The Ohio State coach chose six Irish players to compete in the Midwest Select All-Star game which he will coach. 
With the fall season over, the Irish will take a break before starting conditioning for the spring. 
WATER POLO 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club defeated traditional rival Eastern Michigan 11-8 in over­time, but lost to former Big 10 champion Ohio State and Findlay last weekend. 
In the first game of the day, the Irish dominated the over­time periods coming together as a team and holding Eastern Michigan scoreless. 
Just twenty minutes later, the Irish returned to the pool to face Ohio State. Although Notre Dame stayed with the Buckeyes for three quarters, the talents of Ohio State took over for the 14-5 win. In the fourth quarter, the Irish cleared their bench to make sure all players got a chance to compete. 
Findlay, Notre Dame's third opponent of the day, came into the pool fresh, since it was their first game of the day. F 
freshman John Miller who both contributed several goals. On the other side of the pool, Patrick Miller and Brian Coughlin turned in strong per­formances in the goal box. 
Although these might have been the last games of the fall, the water polo club will contin­ue to practice in hopes of scheduling something in December. 
ROWING CLUB 
The Notre Dame Howing Club featured a medal-winning boat at the Head of the Chattahoochee Hegatta in 
Atlanta last weekend. Cox-swain Huth Diemer, John 
see CLUB I page 13 


TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15 4-6 PM TUESDA~NOVEMBER16 4-6 PM CO-REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN & 2 MEN PER TEAM OPEN TO UNDERGRAD & GRADUATE STUDENTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
CONDUCTED BYNOTRE DAME NAVAL ROTC MEMBERS OF ROTC RIFLE SQUAD !:f..QI. ELIGIBLE 
IN!© ~IJil[g!RlO[giNJ©[g INJ[g©[g~&.!Rl'l? STADIUM GATE 14 





INTERVIEW 
SUIT 
ReAwooA ~Ross 
University Park Mall Not valid in combination with any other offer 
THE 
valid student I.D. at any Redwood & 
Ross  strore  and  
rece1 ve  a  20%  
discount  on  the  
suit  of  your  

choice. 
Visit one of our stores today and take advantage of this very special offer. 
Whether you're shopping for the all-important business suit or your post-college wardrobe, there's no better time to purchase than right now. 
Between now and November 30, simply present a 

Purchase any Redwood & Ross suit and receive a 20o/o discount 
·~· 
~ 


Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON ...­

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Title holder 58 Lecturers 31 Entreaty 82 Fissure
1 Maugham's 
"-andAle" 32 Compos mentis 83Child, in 
34 "Two live-": Calcutta8 Smile radiantly T.S.E. 84 "-in Paris,"10Maxim 38 Parisian ruffians 1932 song13 Active 40 Control surface &5 Pierre's noggin 14 Rights org. 

on a plane's 86"-~Song15 Unit of loudness 
wing Go ... 18 One cubic 
42 Dark 87 Thrashdecimeter reddish-brown 68 Actor Ron ­n Who or which 43 Exasperates 81 Relinquish18 Radius's 45 Pedestal part 70 Fed the kitty 

companion 
48 Southwestern 11 Celsius's plain partner DOWN
48 Play parts 21 Decant 
so Visitor 1 Leg part 22 Yuletide 53 Pedro's thirst 

zlnter­

23 Sans secrecy quencher 
3-andkin 

25 Holmes or you 55 Vicinage 
4 Perpetually 5 Tranquil &Indulge in 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE balneation 7 Level of 

authority aJai­9 Oft-served dish 

zaWaver 47 Jordanian's 54 Sound harshly in England 30 Frail language 57 Hill's partner 10 Wise lawgiver 33 "Pleasure's 49 Variety of melon 58 Pair of draft 11 Invalidate 
-...":Byron 50-blanche animals 
12 Fatigued 35 Port NWof 51 Shakespearean 59 Once, once 15 Supplant 

Mascara sprite eo CeremonyzoSwedes' 36 Protuberance 52 Southpaw 11 Luge, e.g. neighbors 
37 A grandson of 24 Tintinnabulate Eve 
25 Mineral springs 39 Irwin of golf 
Get answers to any three clues 

2& Wine pitcher for 41 Part of G.l. 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

Plato 44 Highway 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

27 Bound foundation 
We need your help. How has alcohol-or 
NATIONAL DRUNK AND DRUGGED other drug-impaired driving affected your life? 
DRIVING (3D) PREVENTION MoNTH 
Please share your experiences, both positive 
and negative, with your fellow students by DECEMBER 1993 
contacting the Office of Alcohol and Drug 
Education at 631-7970. We are specifically 

•
looking for written stories to share with your 
peers. 
Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk 



SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
Holtz not affected by hype, hard hours 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz doesn't work any harder for a game as big as Saturday's clash with No. 1 Florida State. 
If he did, he might not last until game time. 
After a 14 or 15 hour day, he returns home where he watches game and prac­tice lilms from 9:30 to 11 p.m. Then he sleeps in the chair in front of the televi­sion until about 12:30, when he wakes up for three more hours of film study. 

.. 
.. 
CLUB 

Sports 

COUNTDOWN.TH SHOWDOWN
~/J:s ~ 

Look for the 12-page pullout section in The Observer this Friday 
At 3:30 a.m., he goes to bed until 6 a.m. when he begins the cycle again. 
"I have a real weird setup and I've fall­en into a habit which I wish I hadn't," Holtz said of his unusual hours. "You fall into that rhythm and it's terrible to do that. I've got to guard against being too tired." 
The media crush has descended on South Bend, making preparation even more difficult for Holtz and his players. 
Notre Dame has been in games like this before, most recently the 1988 No. 1

Fullback Ray Zellars is expected to recover from a bruised knee in time for Saturday's Florida State game. 
Lewis upsets Lyons; other favorites roll 
SCOTT CLEMENTE 
Sports Writer 
No. 6 Lewis upset No. 3 Lyons to advance to the second round of the Girl's Interhall football playoffs. 
Lewis scored on the first possession of the game when Julie Fleck ·caught a touchdown pass from quarterback Marybeth Failla. Failla then threw for the extra point to put Lewis ahead 7-0. 
The deficit proved too much for Lyons to overcome as a missed extra point cost Lyons the victory. 
Captain Wendy Holthaus scored on an option to pull her team within one. The extra point was then missed and Lyons trailed 7-6. 
Neither team was able to score in the second half and Lewis went on to win 7­6.• 
Senior Wendy Holthaus was happy with her team's season despite the dis­appointing loss. "We are a better team then we showed," said the captain. "We are pleased with the season but disap­pointed with our performance in the game." 
Senior Julie Fleck of Lewis thought that her team played well. 
"Our offense moved the ball in the first half and then our defense held them in the second," Fleck said, noting the con­tributions of senior Meghan Heyward. "We played very well." 
Lewis will face P.W. in the next round 

The Observer/Scan Mendenhall 

Badin senior Aurelie Gallagher runs for a gain in women's interhall action earlier this year. 
of the playoffs. 
Pasquerilla West 18, Walsh 0 
Pasquerilla West scored an easy victo­ry over No. 7 Walsh on their way to the second round of the playoffs. 
Senior Jenny Tate scored twice to lead the P.W. offense. Tate's first score came on a run in the first half. ller second score came on a pass from quarterback Bethany Riddle. Both extra points were unsuccessful and P. W. led 12-0. The scoring was completed when sophomore Lenny Le ran the ball in for the score. 
The P.W. defense shut Walsh down the entire game, netting three sacks in the course of the shutout. Senior Kathleen Glines recorded two sacks while Megan 
P.W. 
captain Jenny Marten thought that the team's derense played well. "We stayed rocused," said Marten. " Our de­fense played with an attitude the entire game." 

P.W. 
will race Lewis in the next round or the playoffs. 


Howard 27, PE 20 

Howard needed overtime in its game against Pasquerilla East to advance to the second round of the playoffs. 
The two teams entered the first over­time tied at 13. Then both scored on their first possession of the extra ses­sion. P.E. struck first but Howard was able to recover to tie the score at 20. 
JOCK STRIP 
'Game of the century' should not be a rush 
M
ost journalists have taken to calling this Saturday's gridiron battle against Florida State the "Game of the Century," but it would be more accu­

rate to refer to the Jenny Marten game only as a step. 
It is a step back to the top of the polls and a step towards a national champi­onship. 
All seniors and graduate students on campus who were here in 1990 will remember the lighted number one which stood atop Grace Hall for parts of that season. Beating Florida State on Saturday will send the senior-domi­nated Irish football team that final step to the top on the polls (and Grace Hall) and two steps away from immor­
see MARTEN I page 13 

Inside SPORTS 
Club Scene 
Interhall 
The Notre Dame 
Playoffs 
rugby club placed 
Second round pair­
third in the Midwest 
ings are out in 
finals. 
women's interhall. 

vs. No. 2 game against Southern Cal. 
"The difference is the game was out there we didn't have to have press con­ferences because everybody was at that sight," Holtz said. "That's why I made the comment I'd like to move (the game) to Florida. They did call the next day and offer to do that." 
Despite the extra attention, Holtz has tried to make this as normal a week of preparation as possible. 
"For us this is business as usual," Holtz said. "As far as I know, they are not going to give (a national championship) plaque to the winner." 
Holtz believes his team must win to have a shot at the national champi­onship, a change from a week ago, when he said he would eonsider playing for a tie if the situation developed. 
"I said that we'd kick (an extra point rather than attempting a two-point con­version to win the game) and I meant it, thinking that we would be big under­dogs and maybe have another craek at them," Holtz explained. 
"After thinking about it, I don't want to play them again. In all probability, we'd go for two." 
Offensive linemen Hyan Leahy and Jeremy Akers appear to be at full strength after missing several weeks with knee injuries. Leahy is expected to start Saturday and Akers will also see some action. 
Tailback Lee Becton is nursing a sore hamstring and fullback Hay Zellars is still hobbling on a bruised knee, but both have been practicing and are expected to be in the lineup Saturday. 
All the excitement doesn't seem to be affecting Holtz, but he does enjoy watch-
see HOLTZ/ page 13 

see page #12 Butler recorded one. see INTERHALL I page 12 
see page #14 








