--~­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 89 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31,1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Student Union Board prepares for some fun 
Junior Jessie Ewan maps out the activities of the Student Union Board for the upcoming month that in­cludes the annuals rin festival, AnTostal, which runs from Tuesda A ril 20-Sunda A ril25. 

Delange: Cultures similar 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
The distinction between an­cient Greek and Jewish cul­tures is not as sharply defined as history books describe, ac­cording to Nicholas DeLange of Cambridge University. 
Although the trend in histori­cal perspectives on Judaism and Hellenism has generally said that Christian and Jewish values diverged immediately after the Romans destroyed the temple the last time, DeLange, in his lecture,"Judaism and Hellenism: Yesterday and To­day," asserted that the two cul­tures are more closely linked and did not separate immedi­ately. 
"You can't draw a straight distinction between communi­ties organized in a Greek way and those organized in a Jew­ish way," he said. "It's not that simple." 
DeLange cited the contribu­tions of large archaeological discoveries to this idea. Deep deposits of papyri, the study of inscriptions, and the discovery of ancient synagogue art sup­port DeLange's views. 
"All of these have shaped a new understanding of what Jewish life was like," he said. 
DeLange showed slides of several fragments of ancient synagogue art. Many of them integrated Greek images along with the standard Jewish sym­bols. Characters of Greek mythology as well as Greek in­scriptions are included in the art, signifying the influence of the Hellenic culture, said De­Lange. 
"The Jews were about as Greek culturally as the sur­rounding people of the time," he said. 
Particularly important to this new perception of the relation­ship between Hellenism and Judaism is the interaction of the two languages. According to DeLange, the presence of Greek words in Judaic texts 
see GUNS I page 4 


Senate axes Republican amendment to Clinton bill 
Senate Kills GOP Amendment Trimming Clinton Jobs Bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate reversed itself today and voted to kill a Republican amendment to President Clin­ton's $16.3 billion jobs bill that would have forbidden financing of tennis courts and other pro­jects the nation's mayors want. 
Undoing what had been an embarrassing blow to Clinton, lawmakers rejected the GOP proposal on a 52-48 vote. Just 14 hours earlier, the Senate had given preliminary approval to the amendment on a 48-44 vote. 
Monday night, five Democrats had abandoned their president and voted for the Republican provision, which was sponsored by Sen. Hank Brown, R-Colo. But red-faced Senate leaders decided to try again because seven other Democratic senators had missed the mid­evening vote. 
"This is a fictitious list of pro­grams that never would have been funded in the first place," said Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., the jobs measure's sponsor, before the Senate ignored his advice and gave preliminary assent to the GOP amendment. 
The jobs measure is a key leg of Clinton's economic recovery strategy, aimed at quickly pro­viding jobs and providing a lift to the country's business cli­mate. It would provide extra money for small business loans. summer jobs for teens and other employment-heavy programs. 
The House approved a similar bill on March 19. Congressional leaders want to send the mea­sure and a companion deficit­reduction plan to Clinton for his 
see SENATE/ page 4 


Outlaw: Subtle prejudice only small part of racism 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Subtle forms of prejudice ex­pressed in residence halls are a small part of a greater problem of racism on the Notre Dame campus, according to Iris Out• law. Director of Minority Af­fairs. 
"Racism at Notre Dame is alive and thriving, in a very healthy state," she explained to a Zahm Hall forum last night. 
Subtler forms of prejudice ex­isting in residence halls often include racial jokes, stereotypes and off-color comments, according to Charles Bright. a African­American student. living in Zahm Hall. 
"It's much more of a closet form of racism." he said. 
Despite being subtle or ''closet," racial jokes or com• ments hurt just as much as larger racial incidents, accord­ing to Dave Fuentes, a His­panic-American student. 

"When people make slurs like that; it hurts... it hurts a a lot," he said. "I always want to ask'I didn't do anything to you. why do you have a problem with me?'" . .. 
Citing that a majority of Notre Dame students come from communities where they have not had much experience around minorities, Outlawsug-, gested that this not be seen a~ a handicap, but a chance to both learn and dispel stereotypes. 
"Many students here have never really had to interact with persons of color. This isn't a problem or an obstacle, but an opportunity to learn," she said. ·· · 
Another common miscon­ception that doubles as a subtle form of prejudice is the myth that students of color are al­ways athletes, Bright said. 
"When I go home. people still ask if I play football. lt's almost like people don't understand I'm intelligent-they thinkthe 
only t~ason blacks are here Is 
for athletics," he said. 
····f\·Zahm Hall survey prepared 
for the forum indicated that 68 
percent ofrespondents believed 
that racism exists in Zahm, 
while ·another 40 percent have 
been a witness or a victim of 
either subtle or blatant forms of 
racism. 

The fear that the subtler 
forms .. of racism induces often 
pervade normal everyday tela­
tionships, according to AI Car­
rillo, an African-American liv-Jng in Zahm. .· .· · ''I often worry that people are 
talking about my color behind 
my back... l believe you really 
have to get to know thfl person 
behind the color, because the 
biggest problem is ignorance.'' 
he said. 

Despite the results of the sur­vey, Zahm has a unique situa­tion where more obvious and blatant forms of racism.are not as prevalent, according to Car­rillo. 

Notre Dame, Saint Mary's students to stage 'Take Back the Night' march 
BY NICOLE MCGRATH 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The third annual "Take Back the Night" march will begin tonight at 7 p.m. in front of the Notre Dame administration building as part of Sexual As­sault Awareness Week. 
"It's a demonstration to re­claim a sense of security. It's a walk to raise awareness about dangerous places between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," said Joan Straka, Campus Al­liance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) co-chair. 
The march will continue to the Grotto, walk down Saint Mary's road where the demonstrators will end up at Dalloway's Coffeehouse. Sister Chain is scheduled to perform there. 
"Rape road (Saint Mary's Road) has that name for a rea­son. It's important to show ac­tive rebellion, that we don't like 

this,"said Jennifer Sypolt, 
C.A.R.E. co-chair. 
According to Sypolt, the march was not scheduled to kick off Sexual Assault Aware­ness Week because sponsors, 
C.A.R.E. and Sexual Offense Services (S.O.S.), wanted the march to finalize the week's events. 
"Maybe people will be more apt to do the march if they un­derstand what it's all about," she said. 
Events this week have in­cluded discussion panels about sexual assault and peer ha­rassment. On Thursday, there will be a self-defense class taught on the second floor of LaFortune. Red ribbons will be distributed, as well. 
"The red ribbons..that tradi­tion started last year and it went over very well," said Sy­polt. 
There hasn't been total sup­port over the years, according to Sypolt. 
"In previous years, people have mocked students walking but I hope they hear our mes­sage that people are affected by sexual violence," she said. 
"It's an issue for both men and women because approxi­mately 10 percent of sexual as­sault victims are male," added Straka. 
Although it may rain at the march, Sypolt hopes that many people will come out and sup­port the walk. "With Sister Chain playing, people may be more inclined to do the whole walk,"she added. 
At last year's march, approx­imately 40 students walked from LeMans Hall and ended up at the Fieldhouse Mall at Notre Dame. 
The "Take Back the Night" march originated in England during the early 1970's. The first United States march took place in San Francisco in 1978. 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week is sponsored by C.A.R.E. and S.O.S. 
"Zahm is a very special place where from the very first, we are all made to feel like one big family through the initiation we all experience together,'' he said. 
Even members of the Admin­istration are not immune from expressing the subtler forms of racism. according to Outlaw, who observes racism in ..some of the people who I interact with daily." 
"I am a black and a woman,. so I face racism as well as sex­ism," she said. 
In order to get past the racist jokes and stereotypes that dis­tort relationships between the races, Outlaw suggests more honest communication between people of different races. 
"When people ask sincere questions, this is how a dialog begins, which leads to greater experiences with people of color," she said. "We've got to see the opportunities, be~ause everyone has something to eon­tribute." 
Student jailed for gun 
.

possession 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame student and var­sity football player Reginald Brooks and Marco Holmes, who is not a Notre Dame student. were stopped for speeding by the Indiana State Police in Marshall County, Indiana, Monday and found to be in pos­session of three handguns without the necessary permit. 
It is the decision of the Mar­shall County prosecutor's office to file charges, said state trooper Lee Boone. As of yet he knows of none that have been filed, he said. 
The two were stopped at the corner of U.S. 6 and U.S. 31 when it was discovered that they had a 9 mm Ruger, 380 Briyo, and .25 caliber Raven in the car, said Boone. A permit is 
see DELANGE I page 4 

------------~~-~-----­
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Deaths of two children may have ended numbness 
It was rush hour in London. The tube station swelled with hordes of exhausted individuals standing shoulder to shoulder. A young woman shifted restlessly. A busi­nessman casually checked 
his watch.  Meredith  
Ten  minutes.  Fifteen  McCullough  
minutes.  News Editor  

Finally, a loud, but'-------­garbled voice announced: "Due to a security alert at Oxford Circus, the Central Line has terminated all eastbound and westbound services. Please take an alternate route." 
For the London transport system, a "security alert" essentially means one of two things-either an absent-minded individual carelessly left a parcel unattended, or there is a bomb in the vicinity. 
My heart skipped a beat. 
I'll admit, the thought of a bomb in the area frightened me. But a stranger to the country, I seemed to be the only one affected. The woman let out a sigh. The man continued to read. 
There was no concern. No panic. It was business as usual in the London tube station. Nobody mentioned the possibility of a bomb. Nobody mentioned the likelihood of Irish Republican Army involvement. Nobody mentioned the 3,053 people who have been killed or the 33,000 people who have been seriously injured in the ethnic struggle in Northern Ireland. 
It seems that after twenty years, the people o England and Ireland have grown numb. A bomb no longer represents one of the 200 individuals in Great Britain alone who have been killed as a result of the conflict, but merely an "alternate route" home. 
It took two children to change that. 
In Warrington, England last week, IRA bombs took the lives of three-year-old Jonathan Ball and 12-year-old Tim Parry. 
And two nations reacted. 
Citizens in both Great Britain and the Republic of Ireland put aside their apathy. put aside their passive acceptance and joined the peace movement. In Dublin yesterday 20,000 Irish men and women gathered to promote peace and to denounce the IRA. 
This is not the first time citizens have protested the conflict, but it is the first time that either country has publicly and collectively voiced anger specifically towards the IRA-the first time in twenty years. 
While small violent factions like the IRA ex­acerbate the conflict, they do not represent the views of the majority-of Protestants and Catholics alike. 
The demonstrators in Ireland and England have at least taken a step in the right direction. Though 20 years late, they are finally moving away from passive acceptance of the violence to a protesting presence that might force the governments on all sides to take decisive action. 
But days after the two children were killed, loyalist paramilitaries retailiated by killing six Catholics-only one of whom was a confirmed IRA member. 
Hardly a promising advent to what many hope will be a new season of understanding. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Frank Rivera Lisa Wolter  Accent Elisabeth Heard Lisa Monaco  
Production Meghan Kelley Kim Massman  Lab Tech. Pat McHugh  
Sports George Dohrmann  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 31. 
30s 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1993Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L a E;SJ ITil 0 A fxxx1 §ll a.~u 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Bush will visit Kuwait for honor 

• KUWAIT -Former President Bush will visit the emirate April 13­15 and receive an honorary degree from Kuwait University. Kuwait's minister of education said Tuesday that Bush was invited by the ruling emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al­Sabah. Bush spokesman Andrew Maner confirmed the travel schedule in Houston. Similar honorary degrees have been given to former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and to Javier Perez de Cuellar, the former secretary-general of the United Nations, for their roles in liberating Kuwait from seven months of Iraqi occupation. 
Israeli court rules for Scrolls scholar 
• JERUSALEM -In a landmark case, an Israeli judge ruled today that an American editor violated copyright laws by publishing a deciphered version of one of the Dead Sea Scrolls without permission. Defense attorneys said the case could have a chilling effect on other scholarly work related to the ancient documents, which include some of the earliest copies of biblical verses. The suit was filed in January 1992 after the Washington-based Biblical Archaeology Society published "A Facsimile Edition of the Dead Sea Scrolls," including a transcription of a scroll known as MMT. Work on the scrolls initially was controlled by a small group of scholars, who often denied access to others until their work was published. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
A guest concert will be presented today at 3:30 P.M. in room 115 of the Crowley Music Hall by Linda Trotter, soprano, and Phyllis Rappeport, pianist, faculty members at Western Michigan University. They will perform Arnold Schoenberg's "Das Buch der hangenden Garten" and Notre Dame Professor Ethan Haimo will provide concert comments. The concert is free and open to the public. 

• 
"Just A Sister Away" (JASA) General Assembly will meet at 9 p.m. in the Multicultural Lounge on the second floor of LaFortune. The topic for the evening is "Shades of Hue -Beauty of the Nubian Woman." For further information, call Sherida DuBose at 631-4934. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 30 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 231,870,304 +.70 to 249.18 S&P COMPOSITE +1.20 to 451.97 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +2.17 to 3457.27

UNCHANGED 627 

GOLD + $4.80 to $337/oz. 
SILVER + $0.147 to $3.90/oz. 

ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
NATIONAL 
FORECAST Cloudy and cooler today with 90 percent chance of rain and highs around 50. Upper 30's tomorrow with possible snow. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  44  26  
Atlanta  83  53  
Bogota  64  50  
Cairo  72  56  
Chicago  66  34  
Cleveland  62  41  
Dallas  81  63  
Detroit  67  50  
Indianapolis  72  42  
Jerusalem  64  46  
London  57  46  
Los Angeles  70  57  
Madrid  73  43  
Minneapolis  46  44  
Moscow  41  34  
Nashville  81  50  
New York  53  46  
Paris  57  36  
Philadelphia  58  50  
Rome  55  34  
Seattle  56  40  
South Bend  67  39  
Tokyo  57  37  
Washington. D.C.  69  52  


Tuesda~ launch for :wace shuttle 
CAMPUS 

Students chosen for program 
• 
NOTRE DAME, IN. -Saint Mary's junior Kelly Smith and sophomore Elizabeth Go have been selected by the Northwest College and University Association for Science (NORCUS) for a 10-week summer research program at Battelle Memorial Institute's Pacific Northwest Laboratories in Richland, Wash. Smith, a biology major from Valparaiso, Ind., will conduct a project in which she will research primary cells and toxicology. Go, a math major from South Bend, is still waiting for her final assignment. The program, which is administered by NORCUS for the U.S. Department of Energy, is designed for undergraduate students who possess the potential for a successful career in science and/or engineering according to their scholastic achievement, aptitude and interests. 

• 
Resume Expert Plus Lab will conduct two in­structional sessions on how to use Resume Expert Plus to create your resume are scheduled. They wil~ feature ~n­screen instruction plus on-the-computer assistance with formatting. Please bring your Resume Expert Plus Dis~. These sessions will be held in room 228 DeBartolo, Fn­day, April 2 from 3:30 to 5:00 P.M. and repeated o_n Tuesday, April 6 from 3:30 to 5:00 P.M. Since space IS limited, please sign up one day in advance by calling Ca­reer and Placement Services (1-5200). 

• 
The South Bend Center for the Homeless is distributing applications for internships at the center. Deadlines are April 1 for summer internships, and April 15 for fall internships. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1492: King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain issued a royal edict expelling Jews from Spanish soil, except those willing to convert to Christianity. 

• 
In 1968: President Lyndon Johnson announced he would not run for another term of office. 

• 
In 1976: The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that Karen Anne Quinlan, in a coma for almost a year, could be disconnected from her respirator. (Quinlan, who remained comatose, died in June 1985.) 

• 
In 1987: The judge in the "Baby M" case in Hackensack, N.J., awarded custody of the girl born under a surrogate­motherhood contract to her father, William Stern, instead of the surrogate, Mary Beth Whitehead. 



-~~-------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 31,1993 The Observer 
Israel seals off West Bank 
HADERA, Israel (AP) ­Gunmen shot to death two Is­raeli traffic police sitting in a squad car Tuesday, and the government struck back by barring the West Bank's 1 mil­lion Palestinians from entering Israel. 
Police blamed militant Arabs for the pre-dawn slayings. 
The assassinations at an in­tersection near this town in Is­rael's heartland appeared to escalate a wave of Arab attacks that has claimed 13 Israeli lives in March. Twenty-six Palestini­ans also have been killed this month. 
Facing a public outcry, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin went on national TV to tell his people: "I understand the pain, the worry, the rage. We are indeed going through a difficult period of escalating Palestinian terror­ism." 
Flanked by an Israeli flag and speaking in somber tones, Ra­bin announced he had ordered the army reinforced in the oc­cupied territories, and added: 
"From tomorrow, there will be no Palestinians from the (occupied) territories on the sovereign territory of Israel until further notice." 
"Terrorism never defeated us and never will," said the 71­year-old former general. 
Palestinians said the tough measure of sealing the occupied territories and barring 120,000 Palestinians from their jobs in Israel would damage peace prospects. 
Rabin appealed to Israelis "not to lose faith that we will achieve peace." But the attack threatened his effort to defend the U.S.-sponsored peace pro­cess against demands from Is­raeli hard-liners to scrap it. 
In Washington. White House spokesman George Stephanopoulos said the Clinton administration wants to keep the peace talks on track but said: "We're obviously con­cerned by the escalating vio­lence on all sides." 


Showing their spirit 
Freshman Eleanor Hogan and senior Sandi Burgar, both of Badin Hall, celebrate the Badin Hall Spirit Week by tie-dying tee shirts. 



IN CONCERT 
Tuesday, April 20 • 8:00pm central Time 
Valparaiso University Athletics Recreation Center Valparaiso, IN 
Their Album "Rites Of Passage" was up tor 1993 Grammy-Best Vocal 
Admission Prices: $20.50, $17.50, and $15.50 Ticket Outlets: Tickelmaster. Carson Pirie Scott and Valparatso University For More Information Call: 
(219) 464-5233 or (219) 464-5230 or Ticketmaster: (219) 272-7979 
Valparaiso University is conveniently located off US 30! Only 1 hour southeast of Chicago • Only 1 112 hours from Chicago's west suburbs Only 45 miles from South Bend 

Members of media discuss career opportunities in their professions 
By CHRISTINA CANNON News Writer 
A panel of four media profes­sionals spoke on career oppor­tunities in their fields and how to break into the media indus­try in a presentation held in St. Mary's Stapleton Lounge last evening. 
The panelists all agreed that media is an extremely hard field to break into. 
Elizabeth Butler, account manager for Family Circle magazine cited reasons for her success in finding a job in the media. 


(FORMERLY COLLEGE REPUBLICANS) 
Will be having a meeting on Thursday, Aprill in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune at 7:00pm 
Dues will he collected and Pizza will be served! 
ALL MEMBERS AND ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING ARE INVITED TO COME! 

Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Apartments Available at 
$250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 

• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 



"You have to show enthusi­asm for what you want to do and sell yourself," she said. "Another important thing is contacts. If you can make con­tacts with people in manage­ment positions you are ahead of the game. 
In addition, one "should fol­low up contacts. If you do this people will start hearing your name over and over, "she said. 
Bruce Lee of J. Walter adver­tising, who has worked on such accounts as Huggies pull-ups training pants and Cheeze Whiz, stresses persistence. 
"The ones who really want it. get it," he said. 
He added that being knowl­edgeable about the company to which you are interviewing gives you an added advantage. "The company will be im­pressed that you took the time to learn about them," he said. 
Brett Grischo, a media buyer who works for Foote-Cone on the account for Coor's beer, owes his break into the media field to luck. 
"I worked for a temporary agency in Chicago and I would fill in for secretaries who worked for advertising agen­cies," he said. "After a while there was a position open so I submitted a resume." 
Majoring in business or ad­vertising in college is not nec­essarily an advantage, he added. "I graduated with a de­gree in sociology," he said. 
The pros and cons of a career in the industry were outline by all the panelists. John Melkin, an account manager for MTV, said long hours, small entry level pay, and paper work are the biggest disadvantages. 
"The business is very fun and very stable. There is a lot of wining and dining involved. You get to go to a lot of free parties, with free beer, and have clients do a lot of butt-kissing," said Grischo. 
The presentation was spon­
sored by the Saint Mary's Mar­
keting Club and hosted by 
Karen Koehn, advertising pro­
• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping 

• 
Fenced Parking 



Come see the changes we have maile. You won't be disappointed!
For more info call: 

232-8256 


Please conserve water 
~ ---------------------. 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, March 31,1993 
to be built. They ranged from a 
golf course in Daytona Beach, 
Fla.. to a theater renovation in

Senate Promises unfulfilled one year after Peru 
continued from page 1 
signature by this weekend, when Congress begins its Easter recess. 
But Hepublicans say the jobs legislation simply would spill more red ink on federal ledgers already bursting with the highest budget deficits ever: $290 billion a year and growing. 
And it would do so by financ­ing many unneeded projects, they say. 
To make that point, Brown's amendment prohibited spend­ing on 54 proposals from a list the country's mayors compiled of projects they said are ready 




Delange 
continued from page 1 
and inscriptions implies a close connection between the cul­tures. 
"People have studied Greek words in rabbinic literature for a long time. Habbinic literature was written by people who were thinking in Greek or at least Greek and Hebrew simul­taneously," said DeLange. 
DeLange's own patristic re­search has enforced his con­clusion, he said. When con­structing a map for an atlas, he stumbled upon the relatively strong presence of Jews in the Byzantine empire in the Middle Ages. 
"There was a whole secret history of Byzantine Jews just left out of the history books," he said. "I hate to believe in con­spiracy theories, but they [ancient historians] hate to be­lieve in a continuing Hellenic­Judaism." 
Christian texts of disputes between Christians and Jews in the Byzantine empire show the degree of influence the cultures had on each other. 
"The Byzantine Christians felt they had equally strong roots in the Bible and in classical antiq­uity. The Jews felt the same way," said DeLange. 
DeLange recommends more research to displace the mod­ern misperception that I lellenic and Judaic cultures do not share a past.. 
"I think the next step is to read the rabbinic literature again through the eyes we have now," he said. "The path for the future is to get out of this cast of mind where we see things in very sharply, delineated compartments." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Department of Theology. 

Guns 
continued from page 1 
required to carry these hand­guns, he said. 
After being stopped and taken to the Marshall County jail, both Brooks and Holmes posted the necessary $100 cash bond and were released late Monday night, according to the Marshall County sheri!T's department. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 4:45, 7: 15, 9:45 
BORN YESTERDAY (PG) 
5:00. 7:30, 10:00 
POINT OF No RETURN (R) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Phoenix. 
"My guess is this has far more to do with domestic politics and the rewarding of partisans than it has to do with anything essential or anything vital," Brown said. 
Administration officials say they would never provide fed­eral funds for such projects. But they once touted the mayors' list as bearing job-creating projects that were simply awaiting federal money. 
Nonetheless, Democrats characterized the Hepublican measure as an attempt to at­tack Clinton. 
"Don't let President Clinton have a chance to get started," is how Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, de­scribed the amendment's true goal. "Do whatever is necessary to undermine the president's program." 
The five Democrats who voted for Brown's measure were Sens. James Exon and Hobert Kerrey of Nebraska; Bob Graham of Florida; Sam Nunn of Georgia; and Richard Shelby of Alabama. 
LIMA, Peru (AP) -When President Alberto Fujimori padlocked Congress and the courts the night of April 5, 1992, he said he needed a free hand to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and corruption. 
A year later, corruption has spread in the judiciary, the co­caine trade is growing faster than ever and the economy is suffering. Nonetheless, Fuji­mori's success in reducing ter­rorism has helped keep his public support high. 
Despite the decline in their living standards, 60 percent of Peruvians continue to back Fu­jimori, according to public opinion polls. 
He has won support by crack­ing down on leftist rebels, slashing inflation, privatizing money-losing state industries governments. 

"The step taken was on the mark and supported by the people," he said in a recent television interview. 
His main triumph since then was the capture of Shining Path guerrilla leader Abimael Guz­man, whose 13-year insurgency has claimed more than 25,000 lives on both sides. 
On Sept. 12, anti-terrorist po­lice arrested Guzman and three other rebel leaders at a Lima safe-house in an operation so secret not even Fujimori was told beforehand. 
Despite Guzman's capture, guerrilla violence continues in the countryside, where the Shining Path's military might remains untouched. But the attacks have been on a smaller scale and appear less coordi­nated than before September. 
Fujimori also has restored order in prisons and universi­ties formerly under rebel sway. He decreed life sentences for guerrillas and formed secret military courts to try them. Courts have sentenced nearly 300 rebels since then. 
But while Fujimori concen­trated on fighting the Shining Path, Peru's $1 billion annual cocaine trade has grown. 
Farmers who grow the coca leaf, the raw material for co­caine, have moved deeper into the jungle to escape guerrilla violence and a crop fungus. 
Last year, Fujimori ordered the air force to take control of nine main jungle airports to block drug trafficers from using them to smuggle out raw cocaine. 

and winning new foreign loans .--------,:::---------------~---------.
ff; Peru after years ofineligibil­
"People see Fujimori as a person who's trying to fix things, compared to the politi­cians who have left Peru in the situation it is in," said Alfredo Torres of the private polling firm Apoyo. 
Fujimori continues to defend his power-grab, which was widely criticized by foreign 


Subs • Salads • Pizza 
Daily Sgecials For April
Mon-6'BO 0 (Buy one 6" Sub, Get Second One Free) Tues-Double Punch Day Wed-Any cold sub and medium drink Only $222 Thurs-$1QQ off any Combo Meal ( 6" Bigger Bite Sub, Medium Drink, Chips) Fri-Free Bag of Chips with purchase of 6" sub and a medium drink Sat-$100 off on any foot, long sub Sun-Double Meal Deal-Two Foot,long Subs, Two Medium Drinks, Two Bags of Chips-Only $899 
.,.-... 
......::'\.' ...... _, !'"'\ ) { '"""' "'.J
~/ .....,·-v 
Located at 
\M:

' ·~,· I ·')) Ironwood Plaza North ~--( ~;2,
•:::::; S.R. 23 & Ironwood
I 
(near Martin's) 

~-,~r 

(219) 27J, 2234 Fax: (219) 273, 2445 
ZI 
ppy Birthday 




·Jonathan 
'" March 31, 1993 Love, Mom 
Once upon a time... 

love, Mom, Dad, and Nikki 
Best Selection -Best Service 
TREK.usAIJatocEsronE f 
SP£0ALJZW 

603 N. Second St. BlKE Nlles, MI 49120 SPECIALIS 5(616) 683..3100 



Upcoming Events 
An International Conferenc 11 ECONOMIC SANCTIONS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS11 
Friday-Sunday, April 2, 3 & 4, 1993 

More than a dozen speakers will address the use and effects of sanctions on Yugoslavia, Iraq, Haiti and South Africa, including: 
James Ngobi, Secretary of the United Nations Sanctions Committee Kimberly Ann .Elliott, Institute for International Economics, coauthor of Economic Sanctions Reconsidered 
David Cortright, President, Fourth Freedom Forum; Visiting Faculty Fellow, University of Notre Dame Susan Woodward, The Brookings Institution, Yugoslavian Affairs Gary Milhollin, Executive Director, The Wisconsin Project on Proliferation Jennifer Davis, Executive Director, American Committee on Africa 
Registration and more information: Peace Institute; First Floor Hesburgh Center 
Cosponsored by The Fourth Freedom Forum 
INSTITUTE FOR Ill INTERNATIONAL 

I IIIII~N~!~! O;:~~~A:: 
I ' 

-----~----------------·-·-----_,__ j 
--~~----~---------------------------~~~--~~---~-----­
page 5 

Wednesday, March 30 The Observer 


Moderate prime minister;;,. takes charge in France 
PARIS (AP)-France's new prime minister, Edouard Balladur, took office Tuesday and named a conservative Cabinet with rightist foreign and interior ministers who could clash with Socialist President Francois Mitterrand. 
But Balladur, who is con­sidered a moderate and con· sensus-builder, named moderates to the ministries of defense, economies and social affairs. 
Following a right-wing tri­umph over Mitterrand's So· cialists in legislative elections ending Sunday, France's government will become a "cohabitation" of a prim(! minister and president from different political persuasions. 
Foreign and defense policy are considered the domains of the presidency in the tradition of Charles de Gaulle, though the constitution is unclear about the division of power between the president and Cabinet on the issues. 
Among the priorities of the conservative coalition is. a ..cut in the 10.6 percent jobless rate, though perhaps not in time for presidential elections in 1995. 
Balladur,. 63,. m:et througho11t the day with leaders of his right·wlng coamion that captured 484 of the 577 National Assembly seats. .. . 
On Tuesday evening he went to the Hotel Matignon, the prime minister's office, shaking hands and smiling with Socialist Prime Minister Pierre Beregovoy, then assumed power at the end of their 
meeting. · 
Balladur went to Elysees Palace. Mitterrand's residence, where the 30-member Cahinf;:lt lineup was announced on the palace steps. 
It balanced representation between tbe more right~Wing Rally for the .Republic of Paris Mayor Jacques Chirac, and tl1~ more moderate Union ror:.. French Democracy of form~r President Valery( Giscard d'Estaing. · ··· 


SLAMMER STORAaE 
Call Fo~ Rese~va+i·o~ Maste~ MiJ-1i Wa~eho~Ase 683-1959 

(.Afte~ 5: 684-0285) 

Yeltsin camp in disarray over referendum 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Boris Yeltsin's camp was in disarray Tuesday as he strug­gled to work out a political strategy following his bare survival of impeachment at­tempts in Congress. 
Yeltsin's chief of staff said the president may hold a plebiscite of his own to counter the April 25 referendum approved by the Congress of People's Deputies. But reformist lawmakers advised Yeltsin against it, and also warned him that discontent was growing in the military. 
The confusion was reflected by legislator Gleb Yakunin, a Russian Orthodox priest and staunch Yeltsin supporter. 
"I still don't know whether I should take part in the April 25 referendum or oppose it," Yakunin told the ITAR·Tass news agency. 
A four-day emergency session of Congress failed to decide the power struggle between president and parliament, although it did erode Yeltsin's powers. His foes fell only 72 ~" votes short of the 689 needed to remove him from office in a vote Sunday. The session ended Monday. 
member body, dominated by former Communist Party offi­cials, factory directors and state farm chiefs elected before the Soviet collapse. Many of them oppose Yeltsin's free-market reforms and Western-oriented foreign policy. 
Yeltsin himself had proposed an April 25 referendum as a way to resolve the political cri­sis. Congress approved it but added a loaded question on whether Russians support the painful economic reforms he began 15 months ago. Many Russians do not. 
Yeltsin's chief of staff. Sergei Filatov, told the daily Izvestia the Congress could not block the president from "carrying out his simplest and most democratic plan" -a parallel referendum. It would ask voters to approve the basic principles of a new constitution that would strengthen the presidency and replace the Congress with a smaller, bicameral legislature. 
Only days before an April 3-4 summit meeting with President Clinton to discuss Western aid, Yeltsin also got bad news on the economic front. The top 
Bitter attacks on Yeltsin have representative of the lnterna­become a habit with the 1,033-tional Monetary Fund in Moscow, Jean Foglizzo, said the IMF would not provide Russia with more loans as long as Russia's leaders were battling over economic policy. 
IMF support is vital to Russia because the seven richest in­dustrialized democracies have agreed to provide $24 billion in aid only if the IMF and Russia can agree on an economic pro­gram. 
And Izvestia reported that in­dustrial production fell about 20 percent during the first quarter of 1993 compared to the same period last year ­roughly twice as big a drop as the government forecast. 
Yeltsin held a strategy session in the Kremlin with about 100 parliamentary supporters. They urged him to ask the Constitutional Court to strike the economic question off the April 25 ballot, on the grounds that Russian law forbids refer­endums on specific economic policies. 
"Most of the speakers said it would not be expedient to hold two separate referendums," said lawmaker Nikolai Arzhannikov. "Nobody proposed that Yeltsin put his own questions on the referendum." 
Attorney meets with Waco cult leader 
WACO, Texas (AP)-An at­torney met this morning for a second time with cult leader David Koresh, and authorities expressed hope the session would help end a month-long standoff with the armed group. 
Attorney Dick DeGuerin, hired four weeks ago by Ko­resh's mother, was allowed to speak with Koresh for two hours Monday afternoon. 
"We had a very good, fruitful discussion," DeGuerin said this morning before leaving for the second meeting. 
FBI agent Bob Ricks sounded a similar note today, saying authorities "are cautiously op­timistic that this will be one of 


The Muslim Students• Association 
presents 


The Message 
A Movie Drama On The Birth Of Islam And The Life OfThe Prophet 
7:00p.m. 

Wednesday) March 31) 1993 Center for Social Concerns 
Featuring Authentic Cuisine From the Muslim world 
the significant events" in ending the siege. But he added, "we have been disappointed in the past." 
Koresh, a doomsday preacher who has claimed to be Jesus Christ, has been holed up with followers since a Feb. 28 gunfight that killed four federal agents and at least two cultists. By Koresh's count, 96 followers are still with him in the compound east of Waco. 
Ricks said the FBI is neither directing DeGuerin nor listen­ing to the talks. During the first meeting Monday afternoon, federal agents moved 7 5 yards away from the porch where DeGuerin sat. For this morn­ing's meeting, the attorney went inside the sect's compound. 
DeGuerin said he was hopeful his discussions would bring a peaceful end to the stalemate. He told federal agents that the first meeting was "substantive," Ricks said. 
DeGuerin tried to visit the compound shortly after he was hired a month ago but was not allowed to. 
His meetings Monday and to­day were the first time since shortly after the siege began that a third party had been al­lowed to communicate directly with cult members in the com­pound. Federal authorities cut the cult's telephone communi­cations with the outside world a couple of days after the standoff began, and since then the cult's phone has been used only for talking with law enforcement officials. 
DeGuerin wouldn't discuss any details of the Monday meet· ing, Koresh's health or the mood of other cult members, except to say that he also spoke with several other cult mem­bers besides Koresh. 

Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (September 1993,January 1994, April1994) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in alife or health science degree progr.un. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physidan. 


Northwestern offers: 
• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Awell rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
Full accreditation by North Central Assodation of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


Ca~ 1-800-888-4777or 
Write: Director ofAdmissions 2501 West Eighty-Fourth Street • Minneapolis, MN 55431-1599 

~--~--­

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, March 31, 1993 

Truce enters third day 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina {AP)-The United Na­tions rushed to get more aid into the shell-shattered Muslim enclave of Srebrenica today, and officials tried to build on a truce that entered its third day. 
The French general who commands U.N. soldiers in Bosnia, Philippe Morillon, said the U.N. was seeking to follow up quickly on the truce by reaching an agreement for free movement in and out of Sarajevo. 
"The time of hostages is over," Morillon told reporters in Sarajevo. "The time of peace is at the gates." 
But Bosnian radio warned listeners to be wary of snipers in Sarajevo, and U..N. spokesman Cmdr. Barry Frewer said the cease-Ore, which began Sunday. was "holding, but very tenuously." 
U.N. observers recorded sporadic violations of the cease-lire. including 13 mor­tar rounds fired on the west­ern outskirts of Sarajevo and 10 artillery rounds fired in the area of Bihac in gov­ernment-held northwestern Bosnia. 
Frewer said the U.N. lodged protests in cases where the violator could be identified. 

, 
On Monday, more than 2,300 refugees fled the cold. hunger and fear of besieged 
Srebrenica and reached Tu­zla, 45 miles to the northwest after a tortuous day-long 


Two Serb soldiers convicted of war crimes 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­Bosnia's first war crimes trial appeal to the Bosnian supreme janovic said, "This is a not a govina (AP) -Two Serb sol­-over to an international tri­court, saying the trial produced fair judgment. I am not guilty. diers were sentenced Tuesday bunal to avoid inflaming ethnic no hard evidence and hinged on I'd also like to have some ci­to death by firing squad for war passions. the disputed confession of one garettes." atrocities that included raping Herak, his head slightly defendant. Both soldiers were convicted 
Muslim women, taking them to bowed as the sentence was of crimes against civilians and a forest and shooting them. read, confessed to killing 30 Given a chance to speak after genocide, based on Herak's The five-man military court war prisoners and civilians, in­sentencing, Herak said, "I de­testimony that he and Dam­that convicted Borislav Herak, cluding a dozen young Muslims serve the death penalty. I would janovic killed people during so­22, and Sretko Damjanovic, 31. he first raped. just like to see my father one called "ethnic cleansing" oper­
set no date for their execution. Damjanovic claims he was more time and to have some ci­ations to purge Muslims from Defense attorneys said they tortured into falsely confessing garettes." villages the Serbs took over. would appeal. to five murders and two rapes. Damjanovic said bitterly, "I 
The only evidence against him, just want to thank the court for Herak also was convicted of 
The commander of U.N. his lawyer complained, is this." crimes against prisoners of war, peacekeepers urged Bosnian Herak's testimony. Asked by Judge Zlatan based on his confession that he authorities to turn the case -Defense lawyers planned an Teftedarija to elaborate, Dam-slit the throats of three POWs. 
Where's the T on your shirt 

STUDENTS 
Massman? Hope you find it

NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP SPRING PASSES NOW AVAILABLE and get rid of VALID THROUGH GRADUATION some of that dust $50.00 on your 21~ 
CALL 631-6425 FOR MORE INFORMATION Love, 
S, S, K& M 



Wednesday, March 31, 1993 The Observer page 7 



EXCLUSIVE FREE 7-PIECE GIFT 
YOURS WITH ANY 13.50 OR 
MORE CLINIQUE PURCHASE 
Your "Easy Perfection" bonus includes: 
• 
Ginger Flower Re-Moisturizing Lipstick 

• Gentle Exfoliator Rinse-Off Formula 

• 
Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion 

• 
Soft Pressed Eye Shadow Duo 

• 
Special Hand and Body Lotion 

• 
Handbag comb/mirror 

• 
Clinique cosmetic bag 






PLUS ASECOND FREE GIFT... "A CHEEKY DEAL" DUO FACE POWDER BLUSHER 
You'll receive your second free gift when you return to the Clinique Counter Aprii18-May 8 for a complimentary makeup and skincare consultation. Book your appointment today and receive our New Clover/Honey Blush Young Face Powder Blusher. 

FOR YOUR PURCHASE MAY WE SUGGEST 
TURNAROUND CREAM 
USE IT TONIGHT, SEEPROGRESSTOMORROW 
• 
Works with speed so dramatic that progress begins literally overnight. 

• 
Visible lines and signs of past sun damage now taken firmly in hand. 

• 
Turnaround Cream, 2 oz., 27.50. 


FOR A FAST, FREE SKIN ANALYSIS, MEETTHE CLINIQUE COMPUTER 
Programmed by a group of leading dermatologists, the Clinique Computer asks eight essential questions and analyzes the answers to determine skin type and the proper Clinique products and procedures. 
SHOP WEDNESDAY 10 A.M.·9 P.M. USE YOUR L.S. AYRES CHARGE &SHOP BY PHONE 24 HOURS A DAY 1-800-528-2345 
_j 

--~----~ 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, March 31, 1993 


Generous alum shows ND spirit 
member of the club and see if country trip. It is times like Pasquerilla West 
~~~~~~~~~~~~-Dating based on skin 
Dear Editor: 
Over spring break, we, like many others, found ourselves stranded in Atlanta in "the storm of the century." We had already spent a night in a hotel only to see the rate double the next night. This left us with nothing to do after emptying our wallets from an eventful spring break. 
Just when we thought all our options were exhausted one of us had the brilliant idea of call­ing the Atlanta Notre Dame Alumni Club. When we called the Alumni Association they gave us the number of Victor Miller, the president of the club. We figured that he would eall a they could accommodate us. Instead, Mr. Miller told us we would be able to stay with him as long as necessary. We headed over to his house and expected to feast on peanut butter and jelly sandwiches (which would have been a step up from our nachos and salsa). That's not what Mr. Miller had in mind. 
He took us to the new Hard Rock Cafe in Atlanta and treated us to a great dinner and drinks. Then he drove us around the city and bought us videos. He wouldn't let us pay for anything. Then in the morning he left us with enough food to last us on our cross-these that exemplify what a great university we have. Mr. Miller truly represents the Notre Dame family. We can't thank him enough for his gen­erous time and efforts to make a bad turn of events end up in great time. If in the future you are in a jam don't hesitate to turn to alumni. They play such an important part in making the Notre Dame experience memorable. 
Tanya Bulakowski Pasquerilla West Stephen Camilleri Cavanaugh Kathleen Lynch Pasquerilla West Amy Wentling 


DOONESBURY 
IQHAT'S A/..1-NO.~ OONNA 7Htf7'1NAMI7C STAJ<T ANAVA­FO/?., 5/R.~ tl£'h: /.ANCJ{t 708U/l:'l tcrtaN6FJSH-me IN/5 A6AIN, .ME 
Wt~ 

IAJHY fAJaW YaJ fAJH/fTON I'Vtl!iZN BUF/a?AUI/e. 
7DMAkePWPL& THIN!< 

Y()()R. ®NN/:AI?­
[)EA7H, SIR?' 
CABIN, IU SNeAK / 
BACK. IN 7HROUGH 
7Ht ll/NN/31.. / FINA/.L.Y !?EACH TH/3 

color is simply 'wrong' 
Dear Editor: 
Last Friday the Observer pub­lished a student poll on interra­cial dating which seemed to re­flect a general acceptance of judging people by the color of their skin. Fifty-nine percent of the students polled said they could not see themselves in an interracial relationship, and apparently think there is noth­ing morally wrong with feeling this way. 
Could a society ever exist where children of different races grow up together, and opportunities aren't based on color-yet where a line is drawn in each mind that says being "more than friends" is re­served for those who look like you? Forty-seven percent of the students polled said that society will never accept interracial re­lationships, so they must either 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU'RE RNAUY 
ST/JRJlN/5 70 THIN!< UKe ANAM&RJOW, 
HONPY. 

"The rivalry of scholars increases wisdom." 
think such a society is impossi­ble, or think America will al­ways be racist. I don't believe either of these. I feel that ev­eryone who opposes interracial dating condones racism. 
Some people might claim I'm ignoring the real differences in backgrounds created by our so­ciety, but it is wrong to know you will never date a certain person without ever speaking to him/her solely because of the color of his/her skin. If we keep believing we can have an envi­ronment that is "separate but equal" there will always be men like my father who get scared when they sec black men talking to their precious white daughters. 
Kristen Bryant Walsh Hall March 29, 1993 
Milton Steinberg 

Increase our wisdom. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Wednesday, March 31, 1993 page 9 

I become extremely agitated abortion decision, Roe v. Wade. when anyone lumps me into a Gary J. Caruso Those participants have also category for political purposes. Capitol Comments been lumped together, but with Does my view of "live and let those who have taken to such 
town is pathetic. This is pa­

live" make me less of a Chris­extremes as bombings and
thetic for a community with 250 

tian than the Pat Hobertson or killings. So people who work in 
churches."

Cardinal O'Connor definitions? government, and who may even 
Heers' group made few

What particularly bothers me be sympathetic with the
friends when they occupied

are those who crusade in the protesters' cause, now stereo­
NO's golden-domed Adminis­

name of God, but act anything type the demonstrators as 
tration building demanding to

but godly. "fanatics" or "nutty people." I 
speak with Father Malloy. I am

Earlier this month I watched guess that when anyone in a
certain that Fr. Malloy's dis­

a student with an ND hat cause uses war-like tactics, they 
cussion was pleasant and low­

counter protest anti-abortion deserve such labels. 
key as is his manner. If I were

demonstrators outside some The anti-abortion protesters'
Malloy, I would have told these

clinic somewhere. I had turned hate and intolerance at times 
people to rethink their strate­

on the television in the middle astounds me. In this country
gies. Crusaders tend to trivial­

of the news story and thought anyone can protest abortion if
ize the rights of those with

to myself, "That guy has a they believe it is wrong, but so 
whom they disagree. 

bookstore hat, and he's pro­many times they do not re­
This nation is a pluralistic so­

choice. What's the deal?" · member the rights of those who 
ciety with many religions as

The network reporter was disagree. Peter Heers gives
well as no religion. The sooner

showing reactions to the an­every Christian a bad name 
the Heers, Robertsons, and

nouncement that Justice White whenever he lumps all of us 
O'Connors realize that religion

would retire. It was definitely a together in a stereotyped
cannot, and will not be the lit­

blow to the anti-abortion category for his political 
mus test for political decisions, 

movement, but here was this agenda. As a Christian, I resent 
the better off we all will be. The 

college-aged guy with the ND him associating me with his fa­
Cardinal's banning of Governor 

hat cheering. The reporter natical approach to a very
Cuomo's speaking at any

ended by saying, " ... reporting emotional and important issue 
church or school facility is

from South Bend, Indiana." in this country. In my opinion,
ridiculous. If Cuomo repre­

It clicked in my mind that he he is the type of person who 
sented a 100 percent Catholic

was one of our students who may start the next Waco, Texas 
constituency, maybe the Cardi­

was pro-choice. I liked that be­incident.
nal would have a point.

cause I believe in tolerating ev­Maybe all of us who are la­
Robertson's use of the Bible

eryone's beliefs, regardless of beled as "Lukewarm Chris­
and "born again" as being the

how opposed to them I might tians" who are also Catholics 
only true Christian definition

be. It is unfortunate that so should petition our Church to 
sickens me at times. But he, as

many in this country cannot require a specific prayer at ev­
well as those who produce what

tolerate others, but must hate ery mass. It should be, "For all 
he would term as pornography,

instead. those who hate, that they may
have the right to express

Case in point is the Collegians learn to love, we pray to the 
themselves. Let everyone decide 

Activated to Liberate Life who Lord ... " 
individually in whom and how

met for two weeks in South Gary J. Caruso is a graduate
they believe. Let God make the

Bend because of Notre Dame -of the University ofNotre Dame 
final judgment on individuals

"one of the nation's most and now works in Washington,
rather than promoting the

prominent Homan Catholic D. C. as a desktop publishing
shooting of a doctor who

universities." Peter Heers, specialist for the United States 
performs abortions. 

founder of CALL, said after a House of Representatives. His 
Every January 22nd thou­

disappointing turnout at one column appears every other 
sands trek to Washington, DC to

Tuesday demonstration, "The Wednesday.
protest the Supreme Court'sChristian community in this 

Alumni are the 'living endowment' of the University 
This is the third in a series of certainly alumni do question County; rehabbing dozens of Court judges. Alan Page, for articles concerning the Notre from time to time various poli­homes in the inner-city in example, was recently elected
Charles A. Weiss 
Dame Alumni Association. The cies or actions of the University. Kansas City; and tutoring stu­to the Supreme Court of Min­
Alumni Column 

two previous articles described When the University does dents at St. Martin dePorres nesota. Other law graduates the organization and the advan­something that alumni do not summer service project. High School in Detroit. have served as presidents and tages of the Association. The agree with, as the University These projects generally in­They are leaders. Thirty-eight leaders of bar associations and Association framework, how­administration can tell you, volve working with the poor Notre Dame alumni are have become federal and state ever, is but the structure they hear from the alumni. Yet, and needy and are intended to presidents of colleges or uni­judges. through which the alumni par­this is all part of the quality of provide Notre Dame alumni and versities. Five currently serve in They are active in their ticipate in organized activities. loyalty shared by the alumni. students with an opportunity to Congress. Many such as An­parishes, communities and The blood which gives life to Even though they may at times address the injustice of poverty drew J. McKenna (president professions. It is a safe bet that the Association is the more than question their school's actions and to help the disadvantaged. and chief executive officer of a higher percentage of Notre 96,000 individual living alumni. or policies, they remain stead­Projects include: assisting the Schwartz Paper Company in Dame alumni, than alumni of 
The focus, thus, of this col­fastly loyal and supportive. director in a refugee/immigra­Chicago), Alfred C. DeCrane any other college, serve on their umn will be the University's They are generous to the tion program in Anchorage, (chairman of Texaco), Edmond parish councils, as lay ministers graduates, the life blood of the University. Our alumni annually Alaska by helping people fill out R. Haggar (Chairman of Haggar -as parish athletic team Alumni Association. Who are rank in the top five alumni job applications, giving advice Apparel Company) and Jack coaches and on parish fund they? What do they do? Why groups in the country in the regarding legalization and Sandner (Chairman of the raising committees. As one are they special and unique? percentage of graduates who helping people adjust to life in Chicago Mercantile Board of priest recently noted, if you 
They are the most visible and make financial contributions the United States by finding Trade) serve as heads of major want to find someone in the significant assets of Notre each year to their university. them houses and jobs; helping corporations or businesses. parish that you can count on, Dame. More than any other More than 50 percent of our in The Care Center in Spring­They are major sports per­find a Notre Dame graduate. constituency of the University, alumni each year contribute to field, Illinois, which serves as a sonalities. Former athletes such They are supportive of one / they reflect the values and mis­the University. facility for adolescents and as Joe Montana, Joe The­another. The Notre Dame net­sion of Notre Dame. As one Our alumni are second in the women with problem preg­ismann, Carl Yastrzemski and work is widely recognized. our alumni director put it, the country in the total amount of nancies; and working in The Paul Hornung come readily to alums help one another. When alumni are the University's liv­contributions in matching gifts, Children Place in West Palm mind. The list is lengthy. Suffice looking for or in need of a job, a ing endowment. that is, gifts that are matched Beach, Florida caring for it to say, that our alumni recommendation, advice, or 
They are imbued with the by an alum's employer. More abused and neglected children. athletes are well-educated, ar­simply someone to bounce an Notre Dame Spirit, a sense of than 5,000 alumni belong to the Thousands of alumni each ticulate, talented, accom­idea off of, you can count on never saying die, never quitting, Sorin Society whose members year participate in community plished, and at the top of their your fellow Notre Dame alums. never giving up, overcoming the contribute a minimum of service projects. Projects in­profession. Most importantly, they are odds, ultimately winning. They $1,000 each year. clude conducting a legal They are attracted to the family. The bonds and friend­are irrepressible. This comes More than 100 alumni clubs outreach clinic at St. Bridget's professions. Nearly thirty per­ships formed among classmates with the Notre Dame throughout the country provide Parish in St. Louis, where vol­cent of the University's gradu­and roommates and with experience. It is memorialized generous scholarships to stu­unteer lawyers each Saturday ates enter graduate school. A faculty and staff, and the expe­in the University's "Fight Song." dents at the University in need provide legal advice to those in high percentage obtain law and rience of just living at Notre It is an important trait, which of financial aid. In 1992-93, the parish who cannot afford to medical degrees. Many of the Dame unite our alumni into a helps us all get through life nearly 500 students at the Uni­hire a lawyer; serving breakfast law graduates go on to clerk for national, and even global, fam­successfully. versity received scholarship aid to the poor and homeless three a federal trial or appellate ily unit. Whenever one alum 
They are fiercely loyal to from alumni clubs. times a month in Orange judges or even U.S. Supreme meets another, even though Notre Dame. Their loyalty is le­They are caring and commit­
they may be strangers, there is gendary. It is stereotypical. It ted to serving others. More than an immediate feeling of famil­also is described in the school's graduates from any other iarity and comfort in knowing "Fight Song." The loyalty comes university, our alumni are that both belong to the Notre from a deep-felt respect for the known for their community Dame Family. University and being part of a service. Our alumni, for exam­These are just some of the close-knit family, something we ple, sponsor and fund over 130 characteristics you will share as all share as part of the Notre students each summer who go Notre Dame alumni. Dame experience. into communities throughout Charles A, Weiss, J.D. is a 
It is not blind loyalty, because the country and work in a 1968 graduate. 


Accent 
page 10 
Wednesday, March 31 , 1993 


like any other sport," he said. "In fact, casting has become a competitive sport in the world games and regional and state tournament competitions," he added. 
The casting for this class involves no hooks, but rather tournament type practice plugs to ensure safe, controlled conditions. "This is the best way to learn to cast well," Bucha said. He stressed the importance of practicing under the supervision of an instructor to prevent fishing accidents, like "hooking your fishing partner in the head." 
At the end of the session, members of the class will have learned the three basic fishing techniques: fly fishing, bait fishing, and spin casting. Bucha will actually take his class members fishing in the two campus lakes on the last day of the course; however, no live bait will be used, just artificial lures. 
"I teach a sportsmanlike approach to fishing, so the class will be more in tune with the environment." explained Bucha. lie added that they will throw any fish which may be caught back into the lakes. 
Because casting and angling is taught in physical education classes at 170 universities across the country, Bucha felt Notre Dame could possibly 
Kris Kazlauskas 
Straight outta 'Waka 
Greyhound, 
road travel 
doggie-style 
T 
he Greyhound -Swift. Sleek. Dependable. A champion. A dog's dog. A bus company. Son," my father said with zeal, "How would you like to visit your grandparents in Omaha?" 
I weighed my enthusiasm for air travel with my fear of spending spring break in the cultural Mecca of the Cornbelt. "Did you get a deal on air fare again, Dad?" My father paused. Always a man of adventure, I knew he had an idea. 
With complete confidence, he said, "Let's face it son, you're not a kid anymore. My grandfather did it. You're grandfather did it. Hell, Aunt Betty even tried it when she was twelve, and you're cousin Gerald did it all the time. Son-it's time to take Greyhound." 
Speechless. my throat went dry as I contem­plated this final step towards manhood. Was I ready for Greyhound? In retrospect, I realize that I could never be ready for Greyhound. But adversity build~ character, and if you fall off the dog you have to get right back on. 
At last, the time had come. Sitting in the bus terminal, located in the cozy Michiana Airport, I anxiously awaited the arrival of my manhood which was scheduled to roll in at 6:55 p.m.Well, manhood was running a bit late -65 minutes late according to the depot employee. As 8:30 
p.m. rolled around, he told me, "I don't know where the hell it is," as he locked the doors and went home. 
Like an angel from God, Tom Miller from Zahm put his hand on my shoulder and said,"l feel your pain. I too am going Greyhound." We became instant friends, and with phone cards in hand, we began the search for our bus. Customer Service referred us to a specialist who replied, "Boy, I don't know. I'm gonna have to turn this problem over to the Head Specialist." 
In typical Greyhound fashion, we got nowhere slow as the "Head Specialist" said in an incredibly authoritative and informative manner, "I don't know where your bus is, but it is out there." Well, the bus was out there-At a Denny's somewhere in Ohio. Apparently, an unsatisfied Greyhound victim had sought revenge in the form of a bomb threat. We didn't actually see a bus until 1:30 a.m., and at that point, we didn't care where it was going, we just wanted to feel a moving sensation. 
The road to Chicago was rather enjoyable. Although Greyhound-hospitality left us with no room for our luggage, we found that it fit nicely into the bathroom. However, nature had called half the bus by the time we had reached Chicago. The whole experience was scaring the crap out of everyone. 
At the Greyhound terminal in Chicago, we were once again greeted like dogs. Tom couldn't leave until 5:45 a.m., and I was stuck there until 
7:00. So what to do? We decided to indulge ourselves at the Greyhound Gourmet. but at $4.99 even a chicken burrito exceeded our monetary limits. Tom almost purchased a $1.85 bowl of cereal {without milk), but we both settled for "Go Greyhound!" squirt-bottles. 
Pleased with our purchase, we ventured into the arcade where we met Her. She played Ms. Pac-Man with lightning precision, gobbling ghosts and pellets like a starved maniac. We marveled at the Pac-Queen, and when she died, a part of us died. The arrival of Tom's bus helped ease the pain. Eight quarters later, my bus came as well. 
To make a long story short. my bus driver had a bladder the size of a golf ball; and Tom sat next to a woman who used his leg as a head rest as she changed her baby's diaper. Fate brought us back together the following weekend in Chicago. Scarred for life, Tom and I will live for­ever with the harsh realization that: "You can take the boy out of a Greyhound, but you can never take the Greyhound out of the boy." 
Kris Kazlauskas' column appears every other Wednesday in Accent. 

RecSports offers lessons in fishing 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Accent Writer 

Warm weather brings spring fishing fever, and so RecSports will sponsor a five session Casting and Angling Mini­course, taught by Dan Bucha, a casting instructor certified with the American Casting Association. 
This is the second year this unique class will be offered, and "anyone who likes the outdoors, fishing, or any type of recreation may be interested," Bucha said. 
With 51 years of fishing experience, Bucha feels casting is a fundamental skill one must master before actually learning to fish in lakes. "It is a step­by-step process," he added. 
Bucha begins training his class members inside the J.A.C.C., where they can master dry-land casting with no natural elements like the wind to hinder performance. Gradually, the casting will take place in the pool at Rolfs Aquatic Center so participants will become accustomed to casting in actual water. 
Eventually, the class progresses outdoors into the reflection pool outside the Hesburgh Library, where they become exposed to the wind and water. "I also demonstrate the function of various artificial lures and how to tune baits so they run correctly," he explained. 
"Casting requires fundamentals just offer some type of class. RecSports instituted the class last year and Bucha hopes that this might lead to a physical education class in the future. 

"Notre Dame has ·beautiful facilities for teaching this type of sport," Bucha expressed. Besides being located in the heart of the Michiana, an excellent region for fishing, Notre Dame's campus lakes serve as ideal places to begin teaching the art of casting and angling. 
Because St. Joseph's and St. Mary's lakes are privately owned by the University, people do not need a fishing license to enroll in the class and practice casting and angling. 
"Fishing is a sport people can use for the rest of their lives and pass it on to their children," Bucha said. "Fishing is also something you can enjoy alone or with friends and family." 
If anyone has seen the movie "A River Runs Through It," which teaches the value of fly-casting, Bucha said members of the course will learn some of the same techniques as seen in this movie. 
Also in the movie, a father in­troduces his two sons to the sport of casting and fishing, but "not everyone has the opportunity to learn something like this," he said. "Especially for such a small cost of $8 as opposed to hundreds of dollars for some classes," he added. 
People interested in participating can register in advance at RecSports. The cost is $8 for the five session course, which is open to all students and faculty. Classes begin this Wednesday from 6 to 7:30 p.m. and continue April 7, 14, 21, & 28. Equipment will be provided, but Dan Bucha urges participants to bring their own if possible. 
Beauty of God found in Moreau 
By ELIZABETH CLARKE 
Accent Writer 

Within the serene beauty of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community lies Moreau Seminary, nestled away behind the tranquil shores of Saint Mary's lake. The seminary serves as a quiet solitude for seminarians to discern their faith in god. "Presently there are twenty-seven seminarians, who are college grads or older, in the program," said Father Zurcher, a priest of the Holy Cross. 
These seminarians are either studying theology at Notre Dame or are on regency years in Peru or parishes. Also, there are an additional seven undergrads at Notre Dame who are currently involved in the program at Moreau. These seven individuals live on campus at Old College for their first three years. Then they continue their exploration of becoming a seminarian their senior year by actually living at the Seminary and participating as active candidates in the program. 
Men come to Moreau Seminary from all around the world to explore two major vocational choices: to understand God's calling and the religious life of the Holy Cross Congregation, and to try to find out if God is calling them to be ordained as a priest. 
The process that the candidates go through involves a considerable commitment of time. The first year at the seminary is spent in three different ways as described by Zurcher. First, the seminarians are introduced to what it means to be a member of the congregation of the Holy Cross. To do so they take part in common prayer, either at the two daily masses offered at the seminary or elsewhere on campus, and are involved in various discussion on reli­gious life. 
In addition, the seminarians are required to take philosophy and theology courses at Notre Dame in preparation for studying as priests. Finally, they try to make a clear understanding, with the help of spiritual directors, to what it means to have faith in God. 

After the completion of the year at the seminary the candidate is faced with the decision of pursuing a life in the spirit of the Holy Cross. If the seminarian decides to continue, he is sent to the novishet located in Cascade, Colorado. It is here that most of the seminarians' energy is fo­cused on the development of the interior life, and on gaining a sense of what it means to be in love with God. 
With the completion of these studies they receive an M.D., Master of Divinity in theology. Each year they renew their temporary vows thus furthering their intention to become priests. After four years they are or­dained as Decons and can then serve at Notre Dame or in pastoral settings to learn from the experience of priests. At the end of one year these seminarians complete the journey of discernment and are officially or­dained and enter the priesthood. 
"Throughout their entire journey the seminarians are supported by their spiritual directors, who can be priests or laymen in the church," 
explained  Father  Wilkenson.  
However, their journey  marches on  
after being ordained.  

Each year priests are given the opportunity to renew their vows and reassess their decision. "Over the course of the candidates' voyage of faith they are searching for the answer as to how to best serve God's people , either as an active layman in the life of the church or as a Holy Cross priest," said Zurcher. "It's a question of how can I best serve God." 
The road that the seminarians travel provides them with the opportunity to evaluate themselves and the strength of their faith. It takes a devoted and sensitive person to embark on a life long quest of offering themselves up to serve God, and teaching his people to love and serve God and for this, these in­dividuals should be commended. 
So, if you are ever on the outer edges of campus on a walk with a friend which takes you by the seminary, seize the chance to explore the beauty and nature in which the seminarians cultivate their love of God. 
-~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 31, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Saint

-------&l'(~---------Mary's ---S,_,______ 
..._,/ 
Saint Mary's softball starts with Hope 

By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
In one of their biggest games of the season, the Saint Mary's softball team (7-3) opens its home season against the Flying Dutch of Hope College today at 3 p.m. behind Angela Athletic Facility. 
Excitement will be the pre­vailing emotion for the Belles, as Hope is the defending Divi­sion III national champions. 
Just as youth has been a focus for the Belles, it has been for the Flying Dutch, who are just returning from spring training in Florida where they compiled a 3-7 record against a very tough schedule. The Flying Dutch graduated their two best pitchers last year. This year they turn to freshman Keri Roelofs on the mound, who comes into today's game with a 2-3 record and a 3.82 ERA. 
Hope is also led by senior first baseman Jodi Joostberns, who is batting .550. The Belles have been hindered by fielding errors this season, which makes facing a hitter like Joostberns even more dangerous. To correct this the Belles have shifted towards more defensive drills in practice in the hopes improving their defense. 
Although the Belles have yet to play a regular season game, they are coming off of an en­couraging scrimmage against a very strong Lake Michigan Community College team Sun­day afternoon. 
"It was encouraging to see everyone play well and to know that our starters can be re­placed by strong backups." said catcher Jennifer O'Dell. 
The only disappointment for the Belles in the scrimmage came when sophomore second baseman April Rhodes' hand was stepped on while fielding a ball. Rhodes received six stitches in her hand, and will miss at least nine days. 
Depth key for Belles tennis in matchup with Kalamazoo 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team looks to improve its standing in the region as it hosts Kalama­zoo College today at 3:00 at Saint Mary's outdoor courts. 
The team stands at 6-2 thanks in part to the improve­ment of a number of younger players, but also to the sterling play of Junior Mary Cosgrove, who plays number one singles and has yet to lose match at that slot. 
Teammate Natalie Kloepfer has also played well. She moved up from the number four slot last year to second singles this season and has im pressed with a mark of 7-1. 


Behind Cosgrove an Kloepfer the Belles lineup isn' as set. The players have bee involved in challenge matche all week long, which may caus change in the line up from pre vious matches. 
"We have no idea what th positions will be, but hopefull we'll do all right. Coach Neste will tell us tomorrow," sai sophomore Andrea Ayres. 
The Hornets enter today' match with a 4-3 record. Thei number one singles player i junior Jackie Aurelia, who, lik Cosgrove, is also undefeated Junior Billee Lighvoet, 5-2, wil be Kloepfer's opponent. To gether the two make up th Hornet's number one double team and boast a 7-0 record. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. a1 the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classrtieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Missing as of 3/27 Black wallet. If found call x1757  Want extra spending cash? Need driver to deliver cakes on campus.  Rent or Sale 2 B.R., W, D, R, R, 2 baths. Located College Park  $2 OFF OUR ALREADY LOW-PRICED DINNERS  CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. NO Grad. Happily married for 4 years.  
Must have car. Call Patrick x3367  Condos. Corner of Bulla &  EVERY WEDNESDAY  Anxious to adopt newborn infant.  
TYPING 256-6657  LOST: Pair of gold clip-on earrings  Ironwood. Must be responsible  AT  Personal meeting welcome. Lawful  
between Zahm and St. Mary's Lake  tenat $595 permo or Sale &65,900.  THE PASTA CAFE  and proper pregnancy related  
••sENIORS..  beach (by the boathouse) on Friday  The Southwestern Company from  Send info to PO Box 4075 South  1636 N. IRONWOOD  expenses paid. Couple approved by  
night  Nashville, TN is interviewing  Bend IN 46634.  Texas adoption authorities in  
SERVICE WEEK  (doni ask ...). ALSO: I left my  students for summer work  advance of placement. State  
March 29-April 4  coffee mug in the upstairs bathroom  opportunities in sales. Students  3-5 PERSON FURNISHED  TOP 20 SPRING BREAK QUOTES  supervised adoption procedures.  
of the Rock. It's grey with a blue  typically earn $3,500-$6,500 their  HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM,  FROM ORLANDO, FLORIDA AND  Call collect: David & Maureen  
MONDAY-St. Hedwigs  top, and it's got my name on the  first summer and gain tremendous  WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL,  1-75  (512) 452-3416.  
4:15-5:15  bottom. Both are VERY important!  resume experience. Stop by  PRIME LOCATION.  20. In the Tiki Room #5  
meet at Main Circle  Call Bridget at X2721  O'Hara Lounge on first floor  233-9947.  19. 1,2,3-20!!!  
Lafortune for more info., to set up  18. A little poke, a little stroke, a  NO junior's sister & brother-in-law  
TUESDAY-Homeless Shelter Service Day  WANTED  interview times and meet other N.D. students who have worked in past  5 br. house, great condition, security system, all appliances, a must see!  little bingo! 17. Upinya  recently lost 2 infants to genetic disorders. They would like to adopt  
1:00-3:00  summers. Representatives there  $650/mth call 232 8256  16. Blame it on squeeks!  a child. Large family w/ lots of love.  
3:00-5:00  SUMMER JOBS  Thursday April 1 from  15. What do I look like, a clock?  If you can help or know one who  
Meet at Main Circle  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  1:30 PM-6:30 PM.  Female '92 grad looking for  14. Officer Startsky, where's Hutch?  can, please call x3314 or (517)531­ 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  roommate(s) in Chgo area. Prefer  13. Parkey, Jenny, Squeeks, Heidi,  3219 collect  
WEDNESDAY-Habitat for Humanity  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  western suburbs. Open to ideas.  Beaker, and Woody  
Service Day  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Help! Two fun travelers  Monica 708-961-3533 wk: 708­ 12. I'm in the zone!  
5:30-7:30  CALL 1-800-786-8373.  need ride to U of Mich  850-4333  11. Let's all say something nice  
7:30-9:00  this Sat. for Hash  about each other!  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  
Sign up in Senior class office 1­5136  SUMMER JOB Paint OUTSIDE with  Bash weekend! Call Kara x2461. Will help with  FOR SALE  10. Hey leftfielder, your girlfriend is looking at you!  LAST DAY TO BORROW:  
other STUDENTS  gas, tolls.  9. Pee-Pee-Popper  
THURSDAY-St. Hedwigs  Earn $6-8 I HOUR  '83 Honda Accord for sale  8. Light as a feather, stiff as a  May Graduates: 2/19/93  
4:15-5:30  Cleveland-Toledo area  Great Cond. & Gas Miles  board.  
Meet at Lyons parking lot  info: John@ 271-2908  FOR RENT  Call Patricia 4-4305  7. I'm flowing freely! 6. "If life is a highway, I'm want to  All Others: 3/31/93  
SATURDAY-St. Hedwigs Serious  NO SKI TEAM Shirts  ride it all night long!"  
Party at NO  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  Only $10 ...Call John x1160  5. We're moving!  
1:30@ Dillon  Earn $2,000+/month +world travel  bdrms, close to campus, safe  4. You go girll  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean,  neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  •••• SNOW SKIS ••••  3. Good song!  in LaFortune Student Center  
SUNDAY-CLASS MASS  etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  utilities. Call Monica  •••• SNOW SKIS ••••  2. What? Are you smoking that  QUALITY COPIES  
7:00pm  employment available. No  232-2794.  205 em Volkl Renligers (GS)  crack pipe again?!  as low as 3¢ each  
Dillon Hall  experience necessary. For  w/ Marker M48 Bindings.  1. She's on it like carmel on  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
employment program call  Oakhill Condo For Rentl 2BR loft,  Perfect Condition. $350 or  popcorn!  
••sENIORs··  1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584.  28th, fireplace, W/0, garage, 1yr  best offer. Call KJ @ 273-2958  
lease. Call Caroline or Bill at 317­ 
Hardworking individual wanted for work in book warehouse. Book  1 dbrm subleased apt, May 20-Aug. 20. Chris (217) 581-2812.  297-8485  TICKETS  Andrea, I made a big mistake this weekend.  SENIORS 1!1  
knowledge and familiarity with PC  Summer Lease  No excuses. Whatever happens,  Need an extra ticket for  
helpful. PO Box 4621 South Bend  Need a ride OR riders to Madison,  Castle Point MATTERHORN  Please, Please, Please!!!!  keep smiling!  Graduation! If you're not  
IN  WI this weekend, April 2-4. Call Jon  Call R.J. or John  I need two commencement  Mike  planning to use all yours  ....  
46634  @271-1938.  271-2908  tix I Call Jennifer @ 277-5972  PLEASE call Kris at 4-2005.  
ILOST & FOUND I  SUMMERJOBS.ALASKA-Eam $6000 this summer! THE INSIDER'S GUIDE ALASKA JOB  NO Apts now signing leases at a very comfortable rate. Can't beat the location or the price  Help! Grad. is coming and the family is bringing everybody except the pets. I need tickets! Call  Novena to Saint Jude: St. Jude, pray for us and all who invoke your aid. Thar.k you for  VERY IMPORTANT!  
SEARCH New how-to book by  Call us 232-8256  Joe @ 277-4273  granting my wish. Amen. RC  
Lost dad's sleeping bag in front of  experienced slimer, only $12.  PEACEFEST IS COMING!!!!!  
the CSC. Have you seen it? Please, if you know any info call x 4420.  Chick/money order payable to A.A.A.A. P.O. Box 31 Merion, PA  3 BDRM. HOUSE, FULL BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS.  PERSONAL  Say a Novena to St. Jude for nine days. Never been known to fail  PEACEFEST IS COMING!!!!! APRIL 7TH  
19066 or call 803-252-0544 Why  FROM NO. 234-1883.  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING.  pay $40?  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  LOOK FOR MORE INFO .........  
OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  
VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  make dreams for your baby come  LOST!!  
DINAMARIE "DIDI" GARCIA  Need a ride to Norfolk, VA  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  Pr. of glasses in blue case after  
X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL.  area for Easter break. Will help pay  219-291-7153.  city; summers by the beach; your  Morissey Film Fest.  
for gas.  ••sENIORS••  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  If found, call Becky X1258.  
LOST-MEN'S SILVER  Call Christina at x4241  This is  fireplace in winter, and by ocean  
CLADDAUGH RING. LOST  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT  SERVICE WEEK  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
ON 3125/93. ENORMOUS  French high school student, 16, is  SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT  best education, endless love. Call  TUCKER TURNERS TWENTY  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF  looking for an exchange familly for  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO  ••sENIORS••  Franny or Stephen collect.  TODAY!!!!!  
FOUND PLEASE CALL  this summer. Interested? Call271­ IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS  (212)369-2597.  Happy Birthday !!!!!!  
CHRIS @ 4452. THANKS.  8621  2773097  Who's Your Daddy?  Love, your Crew!  

-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
---~-------------~--­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, March 31 , 1993 
-------~m\Y\'~----------spring ----------~m\\t'~------­
o;.v1 """:::. lnterhall o;.~1 """:::. 
lnterhall lacrosse action heats up as favorites prosper 
Grace, Flanner, 0-C shine in Blue league 
Sorin, Zahm, Carroll post wins in Gold league 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 
High powered offenses, outstanding goalkeeping, and aggressive play characterized the beginning of the regular season in the men's interhall lacrosse Gold League, with Sorin and Zahm both jumping out to undefeated records, closely pursued by Carroll. 
Carroll was able to improve to 2-1 with a 6-3 victory in a match against Stanford Monday night. Carroll jumped out to the early lead and then relied on the stellar play of goalie Eric Kurowski to preserve the win. 
Most of the scoring punch was provided by the sophomore tandem of Mike Zilvites and Pat McMonagle, both of whom netted two goals. 
Stanford attempted to mount a rally numerous times, but Kurowski always seemed to come up with the big save when needed. 
"This wasn't one of our stronger efforts, but their goalie came up with the big saves to make the difference," commented Stanford captain Mike Donino. Stanford was able to cut the lead to two in the second half on a tremendous individual play by freshman Ricky Schneider, who had two goals on the night and six on the year. 
After Dan Casey's goal again cut into the lead, Carroll got goals from Dan Gehl and Tom llitselberger to secure the win. 
Carroll will face undefeated Zahm tonight at 9 p.m. at Loftus in an important early season contest that should have an impact on the playoff picture. 
Zahm moved to 2-0 after a 6-1 trouncing of Keenan (0-3) behind two goal performances from sophomore Brian Klem and freshman Dan Thieke. 
"We were able to play a good game because we worked the ball around well on offense," said captain Dave Shepard. 

Offensive balance was one key to the victory, but the performance of sophomore goalie Andy Campbell cannot be overstated, as he held the struggling Keenan offense to only one goal with strong net play. 
Keenan will face Alumni (0-2) tonight at 8 p.m. at Loftus, with both teams trying to pick up their first victory of the season. 
Sorin took the early lead in the division, improving to 3-0 after a forfeit by Cavanaugh. In its other two wins, Sorin has relied on a tandem of freshmen for scoring punch. 
Captain Paul Villa was quick to praise attackers Mike Cahill and Brian Fisher, who he termed "awesome" and "dominating" respectively. Cahill is the team's leading scorer, followed closely by Fisher. 
By JEFF ENES 
Sports Writer 

In the Blue Division of the Interhall Lacrosse League, Grace and Flanner both improved to 1-0-1 with wins after the two favorites started off the year with a 3-3 tie, and Off-Campus also posted their first win of the year. 
The action opened up with a talented Flanner squad, led by two former Notre Dame varsity players, downing an upstart Morrissey team, 6-3. 
Flanner opened up the scoring with those two former varsity members, sophomores Mark Carolin and Jason Pett, each scoring long goals and giving Flanner a lead they would never relinquish. 
Morrissey got on the board two minutes later with John Kilcoine getting a goal to cut the lead to one. 
The Observer/Tack Teng 


The action was fast and furious in Flanner's 6-3 win over previously undefeated Morrissey. 
However, Planner's talent was too much for the Manor, as Pett scored two more and Carolin picked up his second to extend the lead to 4-1. 
Kileoine answered, making it 5-2 with his second goal. Morrissey's Shawn Delfausse then closed it to 5-3 before sophomore Shane Igoe iced the game with a goal off a remarkable drive, closing the books on the 6-3 win. 
"Our team has a lot of players who played in high school," noted Pett. "And then we have a lot hustlers." 
In the second game Tuesday night, defending champion Grace defeated Dillon 6-4. 
The game began with some key saves by Dillon goalie Kevin McGuire, allowing Dillon to take an early lead on a Brad Parker goal. But Grace rallied back on two goals by sophomore Jeff Taddeo, who played on Notre Dame's varsity team last year. The captain of Dillon's team, Armando Saldivar, then tied the game at two. A goal by Patrick VanDenbroek before the half then gave Grace a 3-2 edge. 
The second half started out much like the first. Dillon scored first on a Brad Parker goal with an assist from sophomore Mike Robson. Grace then rallied with goals from Casey McGee and Chris Hosen. 
Grace meets Morrissey Thursday night, while Dillon will play Fisher. In the late game Tuesday night, Off­Campus defeated Fisher 7-2. 
Mike Engels' goal gave Fisher a 1-0 lead, but that was the only lead Fisher would have. Six unanswered Off­Campus goals gave 0-C control of the game, as play was highlighted by the play of 0-C's Steve Harris and Mark Gleason. 
"We really haven't practiced," said 0­C's coach, "but we're experienced and have a lot of talent." 
or copies from your color original. (8.5x11 or Or. have your color original digitized and saved either Mac or Dos format. 
Color copies of 4-6 originals can. usual made while you wait. All other serv1ces 3-5 working days to com 
Professors-Jump Start funding l6:awm.a.rn 
Apply by submitting a brief proooe>t:UJ:;Q DesRoisers, 115 DeBartolo, to of creating materials or 

Contact Marlene Malott. Gr.~rml/c6.()fff<Jlllaalti(),P'Ial•.. l\!l~~' room 9 ofthe CCE Building, ~·tp~~MfPhf.l!if concerning printing from 
CAA PLAYOFF MADNESS at 
$5°0 off

Ironwood Plaza North 
S.R. 23 and Ironwood a 3' or 6' (Near Martin's) BLIMPIE Blast 
(219) 2 73,2234 Please place order 24 hrs 
Subs • Salads • Pizza 
Fax: (219) 273,2445 in advance Offer Expires 4/18/93 
---~-------------~­

Wednesday, March 31, 1993 
Habs 
continued from page 16 
squeezed a goal past Cahill four minutes later, Team Setti was down three goals. 
The Habs then got a third goal from Nicholson and two from Hegarty, including a slapshot right before the half to push it to 6-0. 
The Habs' defense, led by se­nior Todd Rice and goalie John 
Michael, had been virtually in­
penetrable for Team Setti in the 
first half, and they did not ex­
pect it to back down in the sec­
ond stanza. 
"They really have an excel­
lent goalie," said Robinson, 
"They probably have played at 
a level higher than just Rec 
Sports." 
"This is like Russia versus 
Sweden," muttered another 
Team Setti member. 
The Habs jumped out on top again in the second half, with Duba scoring on a beautiful feed from Nicholson. 
Team Setti was not one to back down, as they finally cracked the Habs' defense with a slapshot goal from senior and leading scorer Dylan Hogan. 
However, the 7-1 score did not last long, as Duba and Hegarty completed their hat tricks to make it 9-1 before Team Setti had long to cele­brate. 
Nicholson then made it 10-1 with his fourth goal, slipping it right over Cahill's right shoul­der. 
Just when it had seemed that Team Setti was ready to pack it in, they went on a scoring spurt that showed why they made it to the semifinals of the 21-team league. 
Junior John Bradshaw, senior Keith Jarosik, and Robinson all scored to push it to 10-3, and when Hogan put in another slapshot Team Setti was only 
fAifNOS DON'T lH fAifNOS DAIVf DRUNK 
"Guess who s 21 
today?" 
Jennifer 
(Jen) 
is! 
CAPS & GOWNS 

Tuesday and Wednesday March 30th and 31st Stop in and order your caps and gowns at.... 

adaisical in the second half." 
Hegarty, a North Oaks, Minnesota native, noted that although their team is named after the Montreal Canadiens' popular nickname, he is playing for the fallen Minnesota North Stars of the NHL, who have moved south to Dallas for next season. 
"I guess if they never win the Cup at least maybe we can," said Hegarty. 
In the finals tonight, the Habs will matchup against the winner of the other semifinal between Grace 5D and Team Musty. 
Give a Hoot. Don't Pollute. 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
in the bottom of the first inning with an RBI single by Hayes. The score remained the same until the sixth when the Hoosiers notched the score 1-1 with the help of an infield error. Then, in the eighth inning, the Hoosiers were able to capitalize against freshman Kara Brandenburg. 
Brandenburg had to come on with two outs in the fifth, be­cause of Carrie Miller's injury. The absence of senior pitcher Staci Alford from the Irish 
Computer Applications Honor Society presents 
Andersen Consulting 
Wednesday, March 31 1993 Hesburgh Library Lounge 7-8 pm 
Pat Van Wert and Mary Welch will be on hand to discuss employment opportunities at their company. 
All are welcome to attend!! 
lineup left Notre Dame without a relief pitcher when Branden­burg experienced trouble in the eighth. Alford was admitted to the infirmary with the flu yes­terday morning. 
"We really missed Staci's presence," said coach Miller. "She's our number one relief pitcher and we use her to close games like this." 
"Kara didn't pitch poorly," added the coach. "That's just not her role on this ball club." 
In the fateful eighth inning, the Hoosiers scored four runs. The first run came on a bases loaded walk. Then the crusher for the Irish was a bases loaded double by IU freshman Angie Rupp to make the score 5-l. "This was a big win for us, be­cause we're such a young team," commented Stephenson. 
The Irish have a chance to rebound today at 3 p.m. against midwestern regional power Western Michigan. The absence of Alford and Carrie Miller will force Kobata and Brandenburg to go to the hill again for the Irish. 
"We probably will have only two of our pitchers, so we're going to have to step up in other areas," said coach Miller. 
Western comes into the game ranked fifth in the midwest re­gion. They are led by pitcher Denise Tasiemski, and senior Keri Wallace, a .277 hitter. 
Friday, April 2nd 7:30pm-Library Auditorium Come see Notre Dame's largest Hispanic cultural event ofthe year featuring: 
• 
hilarious skits 

• 
dramatic acts 

• 
live bands 

• 
cultural dancing 


AND MUCH MUCH MORE! 
BUY YOUR TICKETS: $2 Pre-sale at Lafortune Box Office $3 at the door 
A great pre-SYR event for you and your 
The Hammes 

date and a fantastic time for ALL! 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ·~on the campus" Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

* BE THERE! * 
page 14 
essie Fiebelkorn was named mos 
aluable player and Juli llarris earned the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valle student-athlete award for 1992 at the Notre Dame 
olleyball 
anquet last aturday. 
Fiebelkorn 
1
as named a second team all-region pick in the Mideast and h mention All-American Volleyball Monthly magazine. 
HARRINGTON DIES: Former Notre Dame football player Dick Arrington died I week of a heart attack at his home at the age of 51. The former Irish running back played during the 1963-65 sea­
and was an All-American. 

SMITH AWARD: Notre pitcher/right fielder Danapilis a nominee for 
th 
ward, has received consider 
support in the fan ball ing. Fans can call 1-900-976­VOTE to vote. 
The Observer 

Notre Dame baseball travels to face Indiana 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 

After winning four games over the weekend, the Notre Dame baseball team (7 -6) is back in action 
today. The Irish play Indiana (18-6) in a single game in Bloomington this afternoon. 

Notre Dame coach Pat Mur-·'""' .i/111/, '""··· 
11~ 
phy is Kevin Orie 
confident 
heading into today's game. 
"I feel like they're a strong club. They're a good baseball team. Bob Morgan does a great job with the team," said Mur­phy. "It's always a good game for us." 
Indiana comes into the game off a 10-7 win over Indiana State last night. The Hoosiers were led by Kevin Orie (2 for 4, 2 RBI), Dave Snedden (2 for 4, 3 runs), and Clint Hickman (2 for 4, 5 RBI). 
Nonetheless the lrisi1 will be ready. 
"We'll show up and play well. I think we'll win," predicted Murphy. 
The Irish have been on a home run kick with 29 hits leaving the park in just 13 games. Last year, the team hit 45 over the course of the 63 
Happ~ 21st Birthday Rabbit! 

HAVE A GREAT DAY! love, your roomies 
Attention: Student Summer Storage 
Your safest, most secure, and conveniently located storage facility since 1990 has a FREE RENT special for STUDENTS ONLY. Call for details. 

(219)271-1105 
• 
Resident Manager 

• 
Security System 

• 
Call Now for Reservations Located on Douglas Rd. between St. Rd. 23 & Grape Rd. 





CLASS OF 1994 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Apply now for positions on the 1994 Senior Formal Committee 
Applications are available at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor LaFortune) or Haggar Center 
Questions: Call Stacy Jones at 634~4858 or Angie Fitzgibbon at284~5121 
Applications due April 6 
Wednesday, March 31 , 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 

Third baseman Craig DeSensi and the Irish travel to face the Hoosiers 
IRISH 
ACCENT 
Notre Dame's 
Comedy lmprov Troupe 
sHow 

9 00 t Th d 
: p.m. a eo ores 
• 

A L" I M"l
OpenIng ct: Itt e I ton 
Ad • • $1
mISS I 0 n : 




THE 
r
()~ )> s:: 
z 
r-
c 
all 

.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Girasol 

zo
-~()
~­
:::::>Z 
.....JW 
<(,(f) 
iHl 
SIMPLE l-11'5ioR '{ 13/lCK IN TI-lE FlfllES TI-lE. HEAD HON0t05 OPPOSED BLACKS IN ntE. MILiillR'/. NOW TIJAT THING.S ARE INTEGRATED, WE }/,CALI'Z.E 
Tr!AT 1J\5CR 1M1NAT10fJ BASED 
ON COLOR. IS STUPID, IF NOT 
DOWNRIGHT IMMORAL 
,,, 
M'j Ut£ 1-lqs bEEN ~ 
tqSciNqhNG SERi'CS 
of qlv\<\'Z.iHG ~'II: pi o irs, 
qbout wHicl-\ I 1-\a\/E 
fv\aNy p'Kofo~N4 il-l). 
62 Fire 
34 Rocker's heavy 63 Play involving Squall watchful waiting 

Acted human 36 Bivouac 66 Iowa college "Scram, 40 Gam of films town Tabby!" 
41 Walkway 67 Early U.S. coin Italian wine 42 Plant used in &aTo­center treating burns (precisely)Coronet 43 Quiet's partner 69 EmploymentHarness part 

44 Babble 10 Goose genus Change one's 
45 Kind of bargain 71 North Sea views 

feeder Significant 
46 Ruhr city 
48 Beholdperiod 49 Polynesian DOWNUnenclosed languagewaters 1 Victor at 52 Actress Tyne 

Hot time in Paris Saratoga: 1777 Hale or007 2 Seize power 
55 Jan.-to-Dec. 

Offspring: Abbr. 3Some
periods scavengersWorth 

58 Cover girl Carol 
4 Stannum Bee chaser 5 Halting place, inGather 59 Big-band Benny Sevres 

6 Ceremonies 
7 Pour 
a Fulmars' kin 
9 Particular point 
oftime 32 Puck's good 
10 "-loves me 
boy 33Jumble 34Giove­
compartment items 
35 Where Mary Robinson presides 
37 See3 Down 
38A Stooge 
39-SOUP 
(dense fog) 47 Earmark 48 "AuI?, Lang 

49 Large parrot 50 Tex. shrine 51 Weasellike 
mammal 53 Stubborn as 
54 Type of beam 
56 English novelist: 1839-1908 
57 Show contempt 60 Grecian theaters 61 Yemeni 
neighbor 64lnvite 65-Paree 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0217 
DoN'T FoRGET 
FRIDAY LUNCH 12,2 
Great Lenten Specials 
Must Be 21 
t Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, March 31, 1993y, 
Irish earn split in stadium debut 

By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team (1 0-7) opened their new com­plex yesterday with a double­header split against Indiana. The Irish won the first game 7­1, but dropped the second game 5-1 in eight innings. 
Just an hour before game time, last minute adjustments were still being made. The field was well manicured and a record number of spectators came out to watch. 
"It felt good to play on the new field because we were able to get into the ballgame," said Irish coach Liz Miller. "A lot of people were out here which made it really nice. 
"It was definitely a good feel­ing." 
"This is a beautiful complex," said Indiana coach Diana Stephenson. "They have a great foundation for a nice facility." 
"We were excited about playing at home after so many away games and rainouts," commented Irish senior out­fielder Lisa Miller. 
Notre Dame dominated the first game behind a record breaking performance by freshman pitcher Terri Kobata. Kobata struck out an Irish record 15 batters, including a record ten in a row from the first thru the fourth inning. She
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
improved her record to 4-2
Lisa Miller was a key to Notre Dame's offensive success in Tuesday's 
while yielding only two hits and 
first game, but Miller and the Irish stumbled in the second contest. 

Spring lnterhall 


Morrissey's Habs enter hockey finals 
not giving up an earned run. It was her fifth complete game of the season. 
''I'm happy with my perfor­mance, but I wanted the shutout," remarked Kobata. "The rest of the team provided enough runs to give me confi­dence." 
"Terri pitched a great game,"said coach Miller. "It was probably one of her strongest games of the year, because she stayed strong throughout." 
Indiana pitcher Lisa Campbell came into the game with a 6-0 record, but the Irish knocked her around by banging out nine hits. Lisa Miller had three hits along with two runs batted in. Other contributors included juniors Christy Connoyer and Carrie Miller, who drove in two runs apiece. Sophomore Sara Hayes, junior Stephanie Pinter, and senior Casey McMurray produced the remaining RBI's for the Irish. 
"We came out intense and hit the ball well," said Lisa Miller. 
"We were very aggressive," added coach Miller. "We stayed right on them throughout." 
"My ballclub was tired be­cause we've played so many games the past week combined with the four hour trip up here," Stephenson. "In the second game, we were able to reach down and pull it out." 
After a 15 minute break be­tween games, the teams squared off in an extra inning defensive battle. Carrie Miller pitched four and a third score­less innings for the Irish until a finger injury sidelined her. In­diana freshman Gina Ugo held the Irish to three hits and only one run in a complete game performance. 
"We hit everything right at them," said coach Miller. "We couldn't generate as much of­fense as in the first game." 
"Our hitting was off," com­mented Lisa Miller. "We lost our intensity and became flat." 
The Irish did break out on top 
see SOFTBALUpage 12 

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Action in the semifinals of the Interhall Floor !Iockey playoffs heated up last night, as the fa­

orites for the crown, Morrissey's llabs, were chal­lenged by Cavanaugh's Team Setti, in a David and Goliath­
matehup. 
This time. however, the Giant crushnd thfl Cinderellas from Cavanaugh, as the Habs cruised with an 11-5 win. The Habs were led by the trio of senior Keith Nicholson, and juniors Chris Duba and Cullen Hegarty, as each had hat tricks, with Nicholson picking up four goals. 
"I've never scored this many goals in my life," said Nickelson, "It must be late St. Patriek's Day luck." 
"They obviously had more xperience," noted junior Pat Hobinson of the llabs, "They 
really tough." 
Team Setti was overmatched from the get-go, as Nicholson opened up the scoring with the llabs' first two goals with six 

• minutes left in the half. Team Setti goalie Sean Cahill had mied the llabs big guns for 
e lirst fourteen minutes with over ten saves, but when Duba 
see HABS/page 12 


The Observer/Tack Teng Morrissey senior Keith Nicholson tallied four goals in the Habs' semifinal victory over Cavanaugh's Team Setti. 
Classic names make Bookstore 
Well, if you  haven't  but by far the best is  
noticed, it's Bookstore  "Five Guys who want to  
Basketball time again.  know if you're going to  
(The throngs of people  be  anal  about  the  
populating  every  fouls."  
basketball  court  on  This  year's  truly  
campus are a big clue.)  tasteless category is  
That  means  it is also  JENNY  well-rt'lpresented with  
time  for  the  second  "We  Got  chunks  Of  
annual Bookstore names  MARTEN  guys Like You In Our  
column.  .  Stool," "Public Hair on  

This year's crop of On Top of Sports Esbians," "Four Guys names features some clever Who Like To Take It To The ones, some random ones and llole, And One Who Likes To Go some truly tasteless ones. Back Door," and the most 
Notre Dame varsity athletes tasteless "Moose, Krauss, and also come under fire in a few three other guys who play like names. As usual, the men's they're dead." basketball team gets a friendly In the "why ask why" eate­ribbing, but one of the more gory, the the truly randomest of tasteless varsity athlete names the names include: "You, Me, is "Tom Carter, Jerome Bettis Ilim, the Other Guy, and llis and Three Other Guys Who Pull Friend," "Pulsating Out Early." pomegranate Peach Pit Merry-
In the ever popular Hoss Go-Round," and "Scent of a brother category: "Thank God-Bowler." they're not triplets" is the best. An award goes to 
Food is also a hot topic with "Schmegma" for actually call­"5 Guys With Heart-Shaped ing themselves that. (Look it up Nuggets" being the most ere-under "smegma" in a die­alive use of dining hall fare. tionary.) After having a roommate from Other creative names in the the Middle East, I could truly famous people category: ".Joey appreciate "The Flying Su-Buttafuco and four guys who flockis," but I am curious as to shoot like Amy," "World Trade how suflocki flies. Center, Hoss Twins, And 
Once again, there are plenty Another Unaccounted For of favorites in the "teams I wish Natural Disaster," "Uglier Than my team played in the first Punky Brewster: the Chelsea round." These include: Clinton Story," and "Wave, "Movement is Painful," "The You're Dick Addis." Vertically Challenged," And my favorite Bookstore "Horizontally Bound," ami "You name this year .... "DuLac: honor, may beat us, but we're drunk," get honor, stay honor." 
OQJ@Oilll~ SPORTS BASEBALL
SAINT MARY'S 



INTER HALL 
Caoch Pat Murphy and 
Softball, tennis Blue, Gold division 
the Irish travel to face
previews. lacrosse roundup. 
Indiana.
see page 11 

see page 12 
see page 14 












