~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
:'tOt 

VOL. XXV. NO. 78 Tuesday, January 26,-t982­
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Brokaw to speak at NO's 148th commencement 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
NBC Nightly News anchor Tom Brokaw will be the princi­pal speaker and the recipient of an honorary doctor of laws de­gree at Notre Dame's 148th commencement exercises on May 16. 
The Emmy Award winner serves as both anchor and managing editor of "NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw" and also aochors "The Brokaw Report," a series of periodic prime time specials examining critical issues. 
Given all the events of the 
past year and the presidential 
election particularly, the Uni­
versity felt that someone with 
Brokaw's "position in the na­
tional media would have 
SMC election season starts this week 

By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
This week marks thekickoff of the Saint Mary's College Stu­dent Body officers election for the 1993-94 academic year as tickets Mary Beth Wilkinson and Lynn O'Donnell and Melissa Whelan and Melissa Peters declare their candidacy for president and vice president. 
A debate between the candi­dates officially starts the cam­paign on Thursday at 7p.m. in the Haggar Parlor. 
Platforms for both of the tickets have been established and the election will be held on Feb. 1 in the dining hall. 
"We aim to begin a compre­hensive recycling program, 24 hour access to computer lab laser printers, continued devel­opment of Dalloway's, new equipment, specifically Stair­masters, in Angela Athletic Fa­cility, easier CO-EX system for meals between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's,"said Wilkinson and O'Donnell. 
They said they also hope to "increase student and alumnae connections with lectures and interviews, and coordinate and equal comps and 'W' require­ments between departments." 
The platform from Whelan and Peters stated that they want to "increase the role of student government in the lives of students. increase intellec­tual and social interaction be­tween professors and students, provide more activities for stu­dents of all three schools on Saint Mary's campus through movies and speakers and cul­tural events." 
They said they also plan to "improve relations with Holy Cross College through the new linkage program, hold open fo­rums for students to express their views about events on campus, expand the role of the Big/Little Sister program in the departments, and promote ac­tivities for the women of Saint Mary's College to explore who they are and what is their rela­tion to the world around them." 
something worthwhile to say" to ND graduates, according to Dennis Moore, director of pub­lic relations and information. 
Brokaw normally speaks at two or three commencements every year, since most univer­sities hold their ceremonies on the same weekend, according to Geri Jansen of NBC News. This year, in addition to ND, he will speak at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology May 15 and at the University of Virginia-Charlottesville May 22. 
Brokaw won the Alfred I. duPont Award for conducting the first exclusive one-on-one interview with Mikhail Gor­bachev. He was the only Amer­ican news anchor on the scene as the Berlin Wall fell and was the first American news anchor to report on human rights abuses in Tibet, including an exclusive interview with the Dalai Lama. 
He has anchored "Nightly News" from locations including Cairo, the Great Wall in China, Soweto in South Africa, the rooftops of Beirut and the streets of Kuwait during the Persian Gulf War. 
Brokaw and "Nightly News" received an Emmy for out­standing coverage of the Ro­manian revolution, and he also won an Emmy for the NBC News special "China in Crisis." In 1990 he received the Na­tional Headliner Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews for advanc­ing the understanding of reli­gion, race and ethnicity. 
Prior to becoming nightly news anchor, Brokaw was the 
The Observer/Andrea Fisk 

host of NBC's Today Show. He joined NBC News in 1966, re­porting from California and serving as anchor on KNBC in Los Angeles. Previously, he had been the late evening news anchor on WBS-TV, Atlanta. He began his career in 1962 at KMTV in Omaha. 
NBC News' White House cor­respondent during the Water­gate era, Brokaw has reported on every presidential election since 1968. In 1976 and 1980 he was a floor reporter for NBC's coverage of the national political conventions. Since 1980 he has been the anchor for all of the network's cover­age, from primaries to election nights. He has also twice served as moderator for presidential candidates' debates. 
The Webster, S.D., native 

graduated from the University of South Dakota with a bache­lor's degree in political science in 1962. Now a member of the board of trustees of his alma mater, he has received an honorary degree there, as well as from Syracuse, Hofstra and Duke Universities, Washington University in St. Louis, Boston College, and Emerson and Simpson Colleges. 
Brokaw is also 'a member of the board of trustees of the Norton Simon Museum; a trustee of Columbia University's Freedom Forum, a journalism think tank; and an advisor to The Asia Society. 
Other recent ND com­mencement speakers include former Major League Baseball 
see BROKAW I page 4 


port, "It is, and has been, the intent of both (congressional) Houses that the funds autho­rized under this legislation be used only to support preventive family planning." 
"There is a fundamental dif­ference between the prevention of contraception and the de­struction of developing human life.... If there is any direct re­lationship between family planning and abortion, it would be this, that properly operated family planning programs should reduce the incidence of abortion," according to Con­gressional Records. 
Kmiec made reference to the constitutional oath which Clin­ton swore to uphold during his Presidency on inauguration day, to "take care that the laws be faithfully executed." 
"He clearly has taken an oath to obey the law. He should have championed or obeyed it," said Kmiec. 
Kmiec added that he felt that the law reflected the support of the taxpayers of the United States of "healthy" counseling and prenatal care, which does 
see CLINTON/ page 4 


Juniors prepare for JPW 
Knott juniors Jacque Martinez and Pat Acosta sign up for JPW tickets with Grace juniors Israel VerVer and Perry Osborn. Walsh junior Jennifer Halbach and P.W. junior Ann Laing help out. 
Professors: Clinton 'violated the law' by executive order 

By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY 
News Writer 
The newly inaugurated President Bill Clinton "blatantly violated the law by issuing an executive order not to enforce the statutory prohibitions on abortion counseling," said a group of five Law School pro­fessors headed by Professor Douglas Kmiec in a conference yesterday. 
With what Kmiec described as a "stroke of the pen," Clinton issued a memorandum to his Secretary of Health on the Fri­day afternoon of January 22 to disregard a statutory law which forbids "funds to be appropri­ated.. .in programs where abortion is a method of family planning," as stated in Title 42 United States Code Section 300a-6. 
As head of the Office of Legal Counsel during the Reagan administration, Kmiec played an instrumental role in drafting the law. 
The four other participating professors included Charles Rice, Edward Murphy, Gerard Bradley and Frank Booker. Ac­cording to the conference re-

Clinton tells military chiefs he will lift ban on gays 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Over­military chiefs as "cordial, of the potential of violence ment but also expressed their riding their objections, Presi­honest and respectful." Asked if against gay members of the respect for his decision-making dent Clinton told military lead­there was any talk of Gen. Colin military. power as commander in chief," ers Monday he will revoke the Powell, the chairman of the Clinton's promise to end the Stephanopoulos said. half-century-old ban on homo­Joint Chiefs, or any other ban has inflamed passions, Clinton plans to discuss the sexuals in the armed services. member resigning over the presenting the new commander issue on Tuesday with leaders The military chiefs said they policy, Stephanopoulos said, in chief with the delicate of Congress, Democrats and would respect his authority as "No, none at all." challenge of carrying out a ma­Republicans alike. commander in chief, a Powell, returning to the Pen­jor campaign pledge while pre­Senate Armed Services spokesman said. tagon, refused through his venting a backlash from Committee Chairman Sam 
Clinton and the Joint Chiefs of spokesman to comment on the Congress and the Pentagon. Nunn, who favors keeping the Staff met for nearly two hours discussions. Defense Secretary Les Aspin ban, promised hearings on the at the White House to discuss "He characterized it as a very spoke earlier of the potential issue in March and said the his campaign promise to lift the productive meeting," for a "revolt" in the military administration was failing to ban. "I intend to keep my spokesman Col. William and said that members of listen to the needs of service commitment," the president Smullen said. "He said, 'I was Congress are overwhelmingly men and women. said. pleased with the meeting."' against lifting the ban. "I think something is fun­
The president plans to take Smullen said neither Powell Briefing reporters on the damentally flawed when the steps within days to end the 50-nor the individual service chiefs White House meeting, men and women in the military year-old ban, White House would comment publicly on the Stephanopoulos said that Clin­have an issue that is vital to communications chief George meeting until the White House ton "reiterated his commitment them, that affects them, and Stephanopoulos said. issued a statement, which he to ending discrimination against they never have been heard 
"It's the president's decision," said was likely in the next day homosexuals in the military from," Nunn said. the spokesman said. There is or two. solely on the basis of status and "The president wants to make intense opposition both at the Military officials have raised to maintaining morale and sure this is done with as little Pentagon and in Congress to concerns about housing, cohesion in the military." disruption as possible," White lifting the ban. spousal benefits, discipline and "The Joint Chiefs expressed House press secretary Dee Dee 
Stephanopoulos characterized requests for same-sex mar­their concerns and difficulties 
see MILITARY I page 4

Clinton's meeting with the riages. They also have warned with the president's commit­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bubba boy bringing being beyond banal? 
"The highest art is that which awakens our dormant will-force and nerves us to face the trials of Life naturally." 
-Allama 
,4li!i::
Muhammad Iqbal ,..,._ There comes a day, 
Guy Loranger 
when a man stops to Asst. Viewpointhear, the fire of cannons Editor across the ocean, the ________ cries of children all too near, awakened, to the sounds, of the houses of the holy, rooted in mother earth, the ground, "my chocolate cake dreams, my ice cream wishes for power, can not, will not, make no sense with this corn meal and flower," and a man can talk his walk, or walk his talk, but the One with the big stick should be running for president, yeah, carrying a day-glo torch, flying the eternal flame, wielding a stick so fine, shining a light that could blind catholics, jews. protestants, muslims, buddhists. bankers, doctors, lawyers, teaehers & saints, a light so boom-booming, all­knowing, truthful, kind. helping, friendly, glowing on the One, who? president number 42, that's who, got him some little boy bubba look on his face, reminds a man of the fourth of july, eating hot dogs and greasy hamburgers all day beneath an ancient sun, in the big field, in the suburbs, until the man in the moon would shine, i tell ya, like some crazy, lazy diamond hanging out above mama. papa, and me, while the fireworks went off, the biggest, brightest fireworks i dun ever seen, crackling red, white, & freaking blue, green, purple, orange, like stars exploding in the sky, the suburban sky. papa, after the last boom. boom, boom, went off, pats me on the head, little league cap and all, and when marna wasn't looking. he gives me a sip of his beer, my papa and me, a papa and his son, sharing a beer upon our own little spot in the big ol' field. which is a shopping mall now, 'cuz some guy from california bought the land, and last july, he donated some money to the local homeless shelter, in his sleek, business­type suit, posing in front of a camera, grinning a grin, smiling a smile, giving unto the poor, all the while he owns a shopping mall, where i bought my first business-type suit, wore it to my first job interview, said to the man behind the desk, 'Tm a kid from the suburbs, went to col­lege and got me one hell of an ed-gee -cation, so now are you gonna hire me or what? or you gonna just show me the door, Leading to the downtown streets, which aren't safe at night, or, at least. where i come from that's what they tell me," in the suburbs, now, mama and papa, i spit, on concrete footprints, on the pavement, downtown, looking around, seeing that i'm a man, doing something he can, stopping to hear, the fire of cannons aeross the ocean. the cries o 
children all too near, and never forget what it feels like to feel. to be in awe of an all-powerful light. like little boy bubba. whose gonna have to the great white house hope, brought to you live on four major networks, during those humid, sticky, greasy, itchy, mosquito-bite summer nights, eyes sore, ears ringing and intoxicated, crack baby drunken giddy from youth, dreaming of being a man someday, dressed in some sweeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeet lookin' business-type suit, ready to take on the world. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News Sports Alicia Reale Rich Kurz Katie Murphy Accent Production 

aurie Sessa Kim Massman att Carbone Kira Hutchinson usan Marx usiness Systems 
ohn Connorton Harry Zembillas mily Hage 
usan MQI..li____________ The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Boman amphjtheater unearthed 
• PELUSIUM, Egypt -Egyptian archaeologists have unearthed an amphitheater and racetrack of Pelusium. a major Roman seaport and early Christian center on the Mediterranean coast of Sinai. They expect the discoveries to make Pelusium. 15 miles east of the Suez Canal, a leading tourist attraction in coming years. Not far from the latest finds, archaeologists are trying to stay ahead of the bulldozers carving out a canal system that will transform thousands of acres of Sinai desert into farmland. The canal project, which follows the path of an ancient route linking Africa and Asia. threatens more than 1,000 antiquity sites with obliteration. ''I'm not surprised there are such discoveries, because so many important sites lie along the path of this canal," Faiza Heikal. Egyptology professor at American University in Cairo, said of Pelusium. "But it's always very exciting when pieces of history emerge." 
Clinton to g.tan tjrst 1 no rlavs 
• 
WASHIN TON -President Clinton and his Cabinet will hold a retreat at Camp David this weekend to chart plans for the first 100 days of the new administration, a spokesman said Monday. "It's an important opportunity for the president and his Cabinet to get started, find out where they are and to make their plans for the first 100 days," said communications director George Stephanopoulos. He said that using the Camp David hideaway, in Maryland's Catoctin Mountains, "allows for more concentrated time". 

• 
DALLAS -A woman who posed as a maternity room nurse and abducted a 2-day-old baby from her mother's arms was arrested early today. The infant was returned to her mother unharmed. Sheretta Lister. 19, said a woman came into her room Sunday morning and told her her daughter, who has several ailments, needed to be taken for a blood test. A relative of the abductor notified authorities after the woman arrived home with the newborn and said it was hers. The hospital had 



OF INTEREST 

• 
SMC Wellness and Health Center is sponsoring a Women's Health Issues program at 7 p.m. Tuesday in Carroll Auditorium, Madaleva. Both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited to attend. 

• 
Codependents Anonymous (CODA). a 12-step program for men and women interested in recovery from alcoholic and otherwise dysfunctional family 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING January 25 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 288,009,900 +2.06 to 242.47 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+3.90 to 440.01 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+35.39 to 3,292.20 
GOLD 

+50.20 to 5328.80 oz 
SILVER 
-$.016 to 53.692 oz 
-:-:::::-:-:::.:: 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy and not as cold today. High near 35, and lows in the mid teens. 
TEMPERATURES 

City  H  L  
llnchorage  14  02  
·.:  Atlanta  50  29  
'Bogota  70  32  
Cairo  66  48  
Chicago  31  17  
Cleveland  32  24  
Dallas  52  30  
Detroit  29  21  
Indianapolis  35  21  
Jerusalem  52  41  
London  43  39  
Los Angeles  80  51  
Madrid  61  36  
Minneapolis  14  07  
Moscow  27  10  
Nashville  43  25  
New York  40  34  
Paris  45  43  
Philadelphia  41  34  
Rome  57  46  
Seattle  51  47  
South Bend  29  19  
Tokyo  45  41  
Washington, D.C.  42  30  

issued an urgent plea for the baby's return becausn the infant needed medical treatment for an eye infection, a heart murmur and a blood ailment. The mother described the abductor as a heavyset woman in her 40s, wearing hospital scrubs, a surgical cap and what appeared to be a hospital badge. 
Chelsea Clinton begins school 
• WASHINGTON -Chelsea Clinton played goalie in a soccer game, attended a weekly musical theater class and ate in the school Lunch­room Monday on her first day at a new school. Schoolmates 
at the Sidwell Friends School, a $1 0,800-a-year private school in northwest Washington, said President Clinton's 
only child was an everyday kid who they expect to soon blend into the crowd. "She seemed pretty normal." said 10-year-old Elizabeth Mounts. "She's nice," added Eliza­beth Levy, 11. Both girls, fifth-graders, attended the musical theater class with Chelsea. 

backgrounds, is open to all wishing to establish healthy, fulfilling relationships. Meetings are held in Sorin Ball Chapel on Tuesdays at 5:30. 
• Applications for Spring Break Seminars are being accepted at the Center for Social Concerns. An informational meeting for the Appalachian Seminar will take place tonight from 7:30-8 p.m. at the C.S.C. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1784: In a letter to his daughter, Benjamin Franklin expressed unhappiness over the choice of the eagle as the symbol of America, and expressed his own preference: the turkey. 

• 
In 1837: Michigan became the 26th state with the signing of a statehood bill by President Andrew Jackson. 

• 
In 1841: Britain formally occupied Hong Kong, which the Chinese had ceded to the British. 

• 
In 1870: Virginia rejoined the Union. 

•In 
1950: India became a republic. 

•In 
1992: In an interview on CBS' "60 Minutes," Democratic presidential candidate Bill Clinton acknowledged "causing pain in my marriage," but said past problems were not relevant to the campaign. 


~-----~-------------------;---~---­
~-------­
Tuesday, January 26, 1993 The Observer page 3 
.. ND Security against charging Fernandez 


By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Security will rec­ommend to the prosecutor that charges not be filed against Notre Dame junior Alberto Fernandez, the driver of the car that hit junior Alicia McKearn early Saturday morning on Juniper road, according to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame security. 
The investigation, which was completed on Saturday, deter­mined that Fernandez had tried to stop when he saw McKearn in the road but was unable to because of the extremely icy road conditions, said Rakow. 
Rakow said that the car threw McKearn about 40 feet. 
McKearn said that she saw the car coming and thought that she had time to make it 
across the street, but misjudged the ice on the road and the distance of the car. 
Fernandez said that he did not see McKearn until she was in front of the car and then could not stop because of the ice. 
The fibula and tibia of McK­earn's right leg were broken in the accident and a rod and pins were inserted in her leg. She will most likely be released from St. Joseph's medical cen­ter later today and then should be in the infirmary for about one week, she said. She will also undergo physical therapy for about three months. 
Although Fernandez had been drinking that evening, it was determined that alcohol was not a factor in the accident, said R.akow. 
NO produced TV documentary wins a N.Y. Film Festival finalist award 

Special to The Observer 
For the second year in a row, a Notre Dame produced television documentary has won an award from the New York Film Festival. 
"A Superficial Democracy," one of a series of 30-minute programs called "Today's Life Choices" and produced for cable and PBS television, won a 1992 finalist award for outstanding achievement in the category of politics. 
The winner of one of four awards in the category, the program explored how television has affected the style of public discourse devoted to political issues. The program was produced by Michael Doyle and written by Gary Sieber. 
Participants in the program included syndicated newspaper columnist and ND alumnus Mark Shields; newspaper correspondents David Broder, Robin Toner and E.J. Dionne; Federal Communications Com­mission chairman Alfred Sikes; former presidential candidate Gary Hart; and Robert Schmuhl, associate professor of American studies at Notre Dame. 
The gold medal for the politics category in the film festival's 35th competition, which drew more than 3,000 television entries from 34 countries, went to "Listening to America with Bill Moyers: Who Owns Our Government?" produced by Public Affairs Television in New York City. 
In 1991, "Life Choices" won an award in religious programming from the New York Festival for one of a series of programs explicating Christian, Jewish and Muslim beliefs. 
MCLEAN, Va. (AP) -A young man sprayed rifle fire into cars waiting to turn into Central Intelligence Agency headquarters Monday, killing two CIA employees at point­blank range and wounding three others before fleeing the morning rush-hour scene in his own vehicle. 
The gunman, described as a white male in his 20s, remained at large late Monday. 1\vo of the wounded remained in critical condition; the third was released after treatment of a superficial chest wound. 
Sen. Bob Smith, a New Hampshire Republican, had just dropped his son off at school and was heading in the same direction as the gunman when he came upon the horror as it played out . 
"He looked in my direction, and then he turned and walked away. He coolly, methodically, with no expression, with no words, he simply walked up to the cars and fired shots point­blank at people," Smith said. "It was a pretty horrible sight." The CIA identified the two dead men as Frank Darling, 28, and Lansing H. Bennett, 66, both of nearby Reston, Va., and 
.---------------------------------------­
OPEN SKATING 

• 
JL&Lf!E NUrGJJU'Jf @!L'f!JiYJ!PUC~ PRESENTS 
OPEN SKATING FROM !O:OOpm TO 
12:00am ON FRIDAY, JANUARY 29 DUR­
ING THE !Lil7fIE INU([J,l11J7f @JLJ!PDJPUCC ~ 
COMPETITION, AT THE JACC ICE 
RINK. 
Finance 
Faculty/Student 
Mixer 
Wednesday, January 27 7:00-8:30p.m. Blue Room NDH 
(near Stepan) 
Afun way for faculty and students to get together. 
F o o d & Fun 

employees of the agency. Two of the wounded are on the CIA staff, and the third is the employee of an· agency contrac­tor, CIA Public Information Di­rector Gary E. Foster said. 
The wounded were not further identified. 
"CIA employees are shocked and saddened at the senseless attack on our friends and col­leagues," Foster said. 
Police would not speculate on a motive for the shooting, although they cited a "common sense connection" to the CIA headquarters, a sprawling, wooded complex surrounded by wealthy residential neigh­borhoods a few miles west of Washington. 
Fairfax County Police Chief Michael Young, speaking to re­porters at the scene several hours after the shooting, said police were working with sev­eral names of possible suspects based on information provided by witnesses and survivors of the attack. 
Young said that while the CIA was not participating in the in­vestigation, the agency was providing information about current or former agency em­ployees. 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday January 26, 1993 
Judge refuses to delay officers' trial 
.LOS ANGELES lAP) -A fed­Pral judge refusPd on Monday to dPiay thl' civil rights trial next month of four whitP police officprs charged with beating black motorist Hodney King. 
A defense lawyer had warned that the trial eould owrlap with another volatile trial. that of three black men chaq{Pd with beating white truck driver Heginald Denny in the early hours of last spring's riots. The officers' trial is set for Feb. 3; the trial in Denny's beating is schPdult>d to bPgin March 15. 
"We'n~ like runaway trains coming at each other." said attonwy Harland Braun, who represents Officer Theodore Bris!'no. "It makes sense to de-
Military 
continued from page 1 
Myers said. Asked if the ban in eiTect had been lifted, she said. "The president has not announc11d his n11w policy." 
She said the chiefs "reflected 
their conc11rns" over Clinton's 
plan of action. 
Vice President AI Gore and White !louse chief of staff Thomas F. McLarty joined Clin­ton and /\spin in meeting with the chiefs. 
"I want their input on how we should do it." Clinton said of the military chiefs. "I think they're Pntitled to really be lis­timed to on a lot of the practical issues." 
Stephanopoulos said. "I think we'll bP able to sell it. 
"Whenever you try to make progress in civil rights, in ending discrimination, there is opposition at the front," he said. "It's always difficult. I think here there are some special difficulties with the mili-
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
not include giving advocacy 
and counseling "to end the life 
of a child." 
Kmiec described Clinton's 
action as "lawless" and 
"mischief." 
"This bPhavior clearly harms individuals... people who are receiving advocacy to take the lives of unborn children," said Kmiec. 
In an official statement, the five professors stated that "These two actions reveal a commitment to implementing ideology in disregard of the rule of law. As members of the Notre Dame Law faculty, we feel these actions constitute se­rious threats to constitutional governance and cannot be ig­nored." 
The professors added that they intend to "work with ap­propriatn legal organizations ... to have these matters ad­dn~ssed in a court of law." 
Kmiec offered no specific names, but did say that he was working on with various pro­life supporters on a nation­wide scale in this effort. 
Hiee predicted that Clinton's action will be met either by "litigation to challenge this ae­tion," or will be remedied "within the congress itself." 
The group is also "forwarding our concerns and findings to Congressman Hoerner and other members of Congress so that they may initiate hearings into these matters in order to ensure compliance," according to the statement. 
lay this trial as a matter of pub­lie safety." 
U.S. District Judge John G. Davies said he couldn't con­sider the possibility of overlap­ping trials in setting a trial schedule. He said he hoped the officers' trial would be con­eluded by the time a jury is seated in the trial involving Denny's beating. 
Davies also said he may allow as evidence portions of testi­mony Briseno gave last year when he and the other three off1cers were on trial in state court on brutality charges in the King beating. 
Briseno, who turned on his codefendants in the state trial and testified they were "out of 
tary in making sure that we do 
maintain good order and disd­
pline." 
House Speaker Tom Foley, D­Wash., endorsed Clinton's lifting of the ban and pledged to support him if the issue came up for a vote. Senate Republi­can Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said there was strong biparti­san support for maintaining the ban. "It will be extremely diffi­cult to sustain any legislation that would change that policy today, tomorrow or six months from now," Dole said. 
"We want to end discrimina­tion against homosexuals in the military," Stephanopoulos said. But he said Clinton also wanted "to maintain order and disci­pline in the military." 
Administration officials say Clinton has prepared a two­step process to revoke the ban. In the first step, the president would simply direct Aspin to halt the practice of asking the sexual orientation of new re­cruits and stop proceedings to 
oust declared homosexuals. 
The second phase calls for developing an executive order, formally lifting the ban and ad­dressing the problems raised by the Joint Chiefs and others. 
A memo from Aspin to Clinton said the president should give the defense secretary six months to draft an executive order lifting the ban. 
The delay would "avoid an immediate debate in the Congress -a debate that is likely to be against this posi­tion," according to the memo, which was obtained by The As­sociated Press. 
Brokaw 
continued from page 1 
commissioner Peter Ueberroth, entertainer Bill Cosby, Com­monweal editor Margaret O'Brien Steinfels and President George Bush. 
The other recipients of honorary University degrees will be announced at a later date, Moore said. 
Correction 
The Observer incorrectly credited a photo on the front page of yesterday's edition. The photo of ND/SMC Right-to­Life demonstrators in Washington, D.C., was taken by Pat McHugh. The Observer also spelled the name of LeoBurnett Ad­vertising Vice President Mary Lou Gorno incorrectly in a story yesterday. The Observer regrets the errors. 


control" when they beat King, has since recanted parts of his testimony and indicated he would not testify against the other whit11 officers in the civil rights trial. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer said the prosecution will seek to use Briseno's account for two purposes: his observations at the beating scene as evidence against the co-defendants; and his actions when he returned to the police station to prove that he lied about his own culpability when he testified at Simi Valley. 
Davies said he would allow only a very small portion of a videotape of Briseno on the 
Been Committed", to be held m LaFortune Ballroom tomorrow night a
witness stand to be played. 

8 p.m. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Info Desk. 
Court OKs execution despite man's claims 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Supreme Court said Monday 
that Texas may execute a man 
who claims to have new evi­
dence of innocence, ruling that 
inmates convicted in state 
courts almost always are 
barred from contesting guilt in 
a federal appeal. 

"A claim of actual innocence is not itself a constitutional claim," Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist said in a 6-3 ruling. Executive clemency is the "fail safe" method to keep the truly innocent from being put to death, he wrote in upholding a Texas man's murder conviction and death sentence. 
In a stinging dissent, Justice Harry A Blackmun said, "The execution of a person who can show that he is innocent comes perilously close to simple mur­der." 
If a defendant's rights depend on a governor's decision on clemency, Blackmun said, "then we no longer live under a government of laws." 
The ruling limited federal judges' roles in sparing inno­cent people from death. But left undecided was whether the Constitution allows the execu­
1::::::  :,:,::  :;::::  
1::::::  :;::::  :{:  
1::::  ::;;::  
..  
1::::::  :;::;:::  .,  
1::::::  ::::::  ,:;:,:  

potato creek state park saturday, january 30 lunch provided 
tion of someone who can prove true innocence. In other action Monday, the court: 
•Voted 
5-4 to uphold another Texas killer's death sentence. The court said Gary Graham cannot challenge a now-dis­carded state law that limited a jury's consideration of mitigat­ing evidence. 

•Reinstated 
an Arkansas murderer's death sentence. The 7-2 decision said lower courts wrongly let Bobby Ray Fretwell argue that he was denied adequate legal help at his sentencing trial. 

•Huled 
unanimously in an Illinois case that criminal co-de­fendants who point the finger of blame at each other are not necessarily entitled to separate trials. 


Texas defendant Leone! Her­rera was sentenced to death for the 1981 killing of Los Fresnos police officer Enrique Car­risalez, who had stopped him for speeding. Herrera also pleaded guilty to killing state police officer David Rucker the same night. 
State and federal courts upheld Herrera's convietion and 
::~:::: 

sentence in the Carrisalez 
killing. In 1990, llerrera filed a 
new appeal saying his brother. 
Raul, who was killed in 1984, 
actually had shot both ollicers. 
Raul Herrera's son. Haul Jr., swore that he saw his father kill the two men. Three other men said Haul Herrera confessed to them. 
Texas law requires new evi­dence to be presented within 30 days of a trial, and state courts refused to hear Herrera's new claim of innocence. 
A federal judge granted Her­rera a new hearing, but the 5th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 
The Supreme Court agreed with the appeals court. Hehn­quist said federal courts can hear such appeals only if a criminal conviction "offends some principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental.'" 
Herrera's case did not reach that standard, Hehnquist said. But he said Herrera may seek clemency from the governor, and noted that all 36 states with death penalty laws also allow such clemency. 
::}: L ::;::: :~:::: 
.. 

bus leaves golf course at 11 :OOam and returns 4:00pm 
$5.00 includes transportation and lunch 
$2.00 equipment rentals 
register in advance at RecSports in the JACC by thursday, jan. 28 

1uesaay, January <::o, 1~~;j 1ne uoserver 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. Thursday, January 28. Contact Jahnelle at 631-4540 for more information. 
Hillary in charge of health-care 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton put his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, in charge of his administration's effort to overhaul America's health care system on Monday -the first time any president has ever assigned his wife to such a major role. 
Clinton called his wife, until recently a corporate lawyer, "a first lady of many talents" with a unique gift for cutting through complex issues and forging consensus. 
Tackling the troubles in the 
U.S. health care system ­which costs more than any in the world but leaves tens of millions of Americans without health insurance -was one of Clinton's bedrock promises in the 1992 campaign. 
The president said he was grateful that Mrs. Clinton would "be sharing some of the heat I expect to generate." 
"I want it done -now," he said at the close of an hour-long meeting with Mrs. Clinton, a half-dozen Cabinet secretaries, his OMB director and other se­nior White House aids on the President's Task Force on Na­tional Health Care Reform. 
He noted that she chaired an Arkansas Education Standards Committee that played a lead­ing role in J?UShing through school reforms there a decade ago while he was governor, and also had chaired a state panel on rural health problems. 
The White House also dis­tributed decade-old press clips on her work. 
Clinton said the task force would work from a "war room" in the Old Executive Office Building in a crash effort to meet his goal of sending his health reform legislation to Capitol Hill in his first 100 days. 
Although May 1 is day 100, the White House said the task force was expected to finish its work by the end of May. 
"We are going to work con­stantly day and night until we have a health care plan ready. 
Packwood: Senate, not voters, to decide 
MEDFORD, Ore. (AP)-Sen. Bob Packwood said Monday it would be up to the Senate, not his Oregon constituents, to de­cide whether he should remain in office despite allegations of sexual misconduct. 
The Republican senator said he wouldn't resign even if an overwhelming majority of Ore­gonians wanted him to. 
"Whether or not you are ef­fective in the Senate pretty much depends on how you make the arguments. That's the ultimate body that will decide whether I am effective," Packwood said at a news con­ference. 

L ~ 


Bob Packwood 

He pointed out that Oregon's other senator, Republican Mark Hatfield, was reprimanded by the Senate Ethics Committee for failing to disclose $42,000 in gifts. 
"Has that lessened his ability to perform for Oregon? I don't think so," Packwood said. 
A group of opponents, Ore­gonians for Ethical Representa­tion, has demanded that Pack­wood resign. 
Packwood, who was elected to a fifth six-year term in November, returned to Oregon on Sunday for the first time since he was publicly accused of making unwanted sexual ad­vances toward female staffers rmrl othPr women. The Wash­ington Post published allega­tions from 10 women Nov. 22. 
Packwood apologized at a news conference the following month and stayed briefly at an alcoholism treatment center. 
He began his week-long trip in timber country in southern Oregon, where he had won wide support, beating Democrat Les AuCoin by 6 percentage points in the Nov. 3 election. 
Packwood was confronted by small groups of protesters at each stop. 
"He's not really corning horne here or doing anything about his problem," said Lou Norton, a member of the National Organization for Women who protested in Medford. 
He met with a group of sup­porters, the Southern Oregon Timber Industries Association, advising them to compromise with environmentalists over the northern spotted owl so they could bring a united proposal to the Clinton administration for the promised timber summit. 
He also visited with timber and agriculture industry repre­sentatives at the Columbia Ply­wood offices in Klamath Falls. 


KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
--~--~------------~--~ ------------~---­
r-------------------~-------------------~--­
page o 1 he Observer 1 uesday, January L!:i, 1~~L 
Ruble loses 
Iraq seeks list on foreign nuclear suppliers 

BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-A U.N. nuclear monitor pressed Monday for a full accounting of foreign suppliers for Iraq's nu­clear weapons program and said experts are studying an 80­name list compiled earlier by inspectors. 
Iraqi officials say they have divulged 90 percent of the companies, but gave no indica­tion when the other names will be given. 
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, meanwhile, called for better relations with Washing­ton and denied his country had "targeted" allied warplanes. 

Aziz also blasted as "arrogant and belligerent" a statement by Defense Secretary Les Aspin, who said Sunday he believed Iraq would not comply with 
U.N. resolutions until Saddam Hussein was ousted. 
No clashes were reported Monday, but a flurry of state­ments and diplomatic activity reflected continuing high ten­sion in the region. 
The U.N. Security Council decided later Monday to main­tain trade and travel sanctions imposed on Iraq after its August 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
Maurizio Zifferero, deputy chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said inspectors have a list of 80 companies that apparently supplied material to Iraq's nu­clear weapons program. Forty of the names were given by Iraqis and the other half were identified during weapons in­spections. 
In December, Iraq said the 80 names represent about 90 percent of the foreign suppliers. 
"As usual, we will press them" 
for the remainder, Zifferero said. 
Iraq has claimed previously that turning over full lists of suppliers would violate its sovereignty over trading rela­tionships. However, the United Nations has substantial intelli­gence on companies the Iraqis have dealt with, and if Iraq is unwilling to answer questions on them a more or less com­plete list could be constructed. 
Zifferero says there might be 10 to 15 more companies, ac­cording to the Iraqis. 
Baidoa sees less death, but much suffering remains 
BAIDOA, Somalia (AP) -Tohow insisted on 

·,·: :" 11: ..·..·... ·:: ""'·'·''"'''' ,,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,., ....·. "' '''' ' ' ' , ' ' ; \I t 1; t ;. ' , ' '·I;~~~~ ,'" .• , :1 

"The Marines have changed everything," said Husein Dahir Ahmed, manager of the Red Crescent. "The have returned peace and tranquility to Baidoa." 
The heavily armed vehicles known as technicals that used to roam the streets are gone, though some gunmen still ply 
their looting trade under cover 
A 
I 
' 

"aS lteta
I I 
I I 

of darkness. The market has quadrupled in size. Hundreds of orphans are learning their ABCs, and several schools are about to open. Tea shops which closed at dusk now bustle until midnight. 
Mohamed Ibrahim Husein, the region's new governor, fears the dramatic drop in the death toll is starting a cutback in relief at 
---~...... 
~---~ 
a time when he believes 30 to 40 percent of people in Haidoa and thousands more in the countryside are still starving. 
The International Committee of the Red Cross and the inter­national relief agency CAHE have reduced the number of food kitchens they operate in Haidoa, and many other camps and kitchens are going to be closed, he said. 
"We are requesting the in­ternational community to in­crease food and medicine to give farmers seeds, tools and machinery and to invest in re­building Somalia," llusein said. 
Above all, he said, U.S. and allied forces must disarm the gunmen, many of whom have fled outside the city, to secure the future of the region. 
The Hed Cross and CAHE said the governor's estimate of Baidoa's hungry is too high. They said they cut the number of kitchens because fewer So­malis were using them. 
Belief agencies have been trying to switch from cooked food at kitchens to distributing dry food like maize or sorghum so Somalis can eat at home. 


~e».MITT~D , ... Come and solve the Mystery January 27, 1993 8:00pm LaFortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) 
1st prize $1 00 


100% audience participation 
~tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information desk for $3) 

.-.~

~ sponsored by Student Activities 
Business 
Tuesday, January 26, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Justices set anti-trust precedent
• WASHINGTON-The Supreme Court today made it harder to prove that businesses have tried to create a monopoly. The court. ruling unanimously in a California case, set aside a $6.2 million damage award to a company that said it was victimized by an illegal scheme to monopolize sales of a shock-absorbing insole for athletic shoes. Businesses may not be held liable for attempting to monopolize a market unless there is proof of a "dangerous probability" that they will succeed, Justice Byron White wrote for the court. "Proof of unfair or predatory conduct alone" is not enough to prove that businesses have tried to monopolize a market, White said. 
Russian flag to grace new CIS ruble 
• MOSCOW-The increasingly worthless ruble soon will lose something that may have even less value these days: a picture of Vladimir Lenin. Officials decided Monday to print new hanknotes without the once-ubiquitous face of the Soviet founder. The change is part of a plan to boost the currency's value and fight counterfeiting. Russian legislative officials on Monday approved a new set of banknotes in denominations of 100, 200, 500, 1,000 and 5,000 rubles. The new design will include the white, blue and red Russian flag. The new banknotes also will be smaller, said Alexander Pochinok, chief of the legislative commission on budget, taxes and prices. 
Su&reme Court rules in favor of IRS 
Screw olant to hire 150 in Frankfort 
• FRANKFORT-TriMas Fasteners Inc. announced plans Monday to construct a new plant that will employ more than 150 workers within five years.TriMas, a subsidiary of Masco, makes industrial fasteners, including the Lake Erie Screw. Ground will be broken for the plant in April on 44 acres of farm land. Construction is scheduled to be complete by October on a 40,000-to 60,000-square-foot facility. The company plans to hire 23 jobs by the end of 1994 and expand the work force to more than 150 by the end of 1998, when more than $32 million will be invested in the facility, officials predicted. 
WASHINGTON (AP) that outgoing President Bush Congress' top budget analyst released three weeks ago. says federal deficits will more In a blow to President Clinton, than double in a decade unless Reischauer warns that neither the public accepts higher taxes economic growth nor reform of and trimmer programs. the health-care system will 
Unchecked, the shortfall will solve the government's red-ink hit about $650 billion in fiscal problem. Clinton has said he 2003 -compared to last year's would rely heavily on both to record $290 billion, according help reduce the budget gap. to testimony prepared by Robert Reischauer, director of "The deficit will come down the nonpartisan Congressional only when both elected officials Budget Office. and the public conclude that the 
borrowing binge must stop," 
In his prepared remarks, for Reischauer said. "They must be delivery to the Senate Budget willing to pay higher taxes and Committee on Tuesday, Reis­receive fewer government chauer projected deficits for the benefits in the 1990s for the next few years that are roughly sake of higher living standards similar to the gloomy estimates in the next century." 
Drug firms might cut research 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The pharmaceutical industry told Congress on Monday that some companies may back away from federal projects to develop new medicines if the government tries to limit prices when those drugs are marketed. 
However, a House subcom­mittee chairman said the gov­ernment should become more active in reining in patient costs for drugs developed at taxpayer expense. 
"Americans should not be held political hostage to drug companies who threaten to walk away from cures if Congress requires reasonable price justification," Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., declared at a hearing of his House Small Business subcommittee on regulation. 
Wyden singled out the drug Taxol as a case study. The drug, derived from the bark of the rare Pacific yew tree, recently was approved for treating ovarian cancer and shows promise for treating lung and breast cancers. 
Taxol was discovered more than 20 years ago, and the Na­tional Institutes of Health spent some $32 million on research and development of the drug by the end of last year, according to subcommittee documents. 
Two years ago the govern­ment struck a deal with Bristol­Myers Squibb entitling it to market Taxol. The company announced last month that the average patient will pay $986 for a three-week cycle of treatment with the drug. 
Wyden contends there is little justification for that price, espe­cially since the major costs of development have been paid by the taxpayers. He has suggested that the government become more involved in setting prices of drugs it has discovered, through a negotiated formula or by special panels. 
New energy tax proposal may be coming 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The Clinton administration gave fresh signals Monday that it may propose tax increases that would hit most Americans as a way of fighting the federal deficit. A broad-based tax on energy consumption is among "a lot of options," President Clinton said. 
A day after Treasury Secre­tary Lloyd Bentsen floated the possibility of such a tax, Clinton and White House officials did their best to keep it aloft ­even as they asserted there had been no final decisions. 
"Absolutely, yes," responded White House communications director George Stephanopou­los when asked specifically whether a consumption tax on energy was under discussion as Clinton puts together his economic package. 
Stephanopoulos also stressed that cuts in entitlement spend­ing -mandated benefit pro­grams like Social Security ­also are "on the table" as the plan takes shape. 
Clinton took a step further toward that package -to be outlined in his maiden State of the Union address next month ­by signing an executive order creating a Cabinet-level National Economic Council. 
The council, headed by former New York investment banker Robert Rubin, will co­ordinate economic policy in much the same way that the older National Security Council oversees foreign and defense policies. 
"I believe that this will enable us to make economic policy in a much more specific, clear, and effective way than the federal government has in quite a long while," Clinton said at a pic­ture-taking session with his economic advisers. 
The panel is made up secre­taries of most key Cabinet posts and other top policy advisers. 
The White House did not re­treat from Bentsen's comments on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press" a day earlier that the Clinton administration was likely to propose increased taxes on consumption and that a broad­based energy tax was a leading candidate. 
"I thought he did a very good job on television," Clinton said, noting in particular that Bentsen told his interviewers that nothing final had been de­cided. "We have a lot of options under consideration, but no decision has been made," Clin­ton said. 
Bentsen, interviewed on NBC­TV's "Meet the Press," said flatly: "What you're going to see...is some consumption tax is going to take place." 
He said a tax on energy con­sumption would raise revenues and encourage conservation while helping to lessen the na­tion's reliance on imported oil. And he seemed to suggest it would go further than a tax on gasoline alone. 
Possible energy taxes that have been mentioned include a tax on imported oil and one on consumption of all forms of en­ergy such as oil, natural gas and even electricity. 
Middle-income Americans would shoulder the brunt of any broad-based energy tax because they pay a greater proportion of their incomes for fuel than do the rich. Congress would likely give the poorest Americans some form of relief from taxes on essential fuels. 
Clinton is struggling to find a way to reduce the annual deficit -estimated by the gov­ernment to be a record $327 billion this year -while in­creasing spending on items such as education and public works. The energy tax would be part of his longer-range plan. · 
In the shorter run, however, Clinton is expected to propose tax cuts for businesses, such as an investment tax cut, and temporary spending increases on job-producing programs to stimulate the economy, officials said. 
However, the amount of eco­nomic stimulus may be in the neighborhood of $10 billion or less, far below the $60 billion discussed during the campaign to "jump start" the economy, they said. 
In related developments Monday: 
• Robert Reischauer, head of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, said in prepared testimony that federal deficits will double in a decade -to about $650 billion -unless the public accepts higher taxes and trimmer federal programs. He was to give the testimony Tuesday to the Senate Budget Committee. 
• James Landry, president of the Air Transport Association, protested in a letter to Bentsen that it would cost airlines $150 million for every one-cent in­crease in the price of jet fuel, hitting hard "an industry which has already lost more than $8 billion over the past three years." The American Petroleum Institute has also opposed the energy-tax con­cept. 
Bentsen's comments on Sunday -and the fact that the White House did nothing to un­dermine them -mark the lat­est in a series of steps that Clin­ton and his aides have taken in backing away from his cam­paign proposal for a tax cut for middle-income Americans. 
During the campaign, Clinton maintained that the deficit could be lowered by raising taxes on the wealthiest Ameri­cans and on foreign companies and by better management of government programs. 
But Clinton himself indicated in mid-December, after new government figures showed a worsening deficit picture, that his priorities might have shifted. And, a week before taking office, Clinton told a news conference in Little Rock, Ark., that a middle-income tax cut no longer seemed needed to stimulate the economy. He asserted it had not been one of the "big things we were run­ning on." 
Analysts: budget deficits to double 
Reischauer's views are im­portant because the Congres­sional Budget Office is widely respected on Capitol Hill as an impartial source of budget in­formation. 
Reiscbauer projects that the fiscal 1993 budget gap will be $310 billion, $17 billion less than Bush estimated. Fiscal 1993 runs through Sept. 30. 
But after dipping to $291 bil­lion next year, Reischauer sees the deficit rising steadily after­ward, hitting $319 billion in fis­cal 1997 -$14 billion more than Bush projected. The fiscal 1997 budget is the spending plan Clinton will be preparing during his 1996 re-election campaign. 
Restructuring Sears to close Indiana stores 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP}-More than 1,000 Sears employees in Indiana learned Monday they were out of a job in a massive, nationwide restructuring by the giant retailer. 
Sears, Roebuck and Co. an­nounced plans to close a catalog distribution center in Fort Wayne by the end of the year and retail stores in Madison, Warsaw and Washington before April. 
Nationwide, Sears will close 113 retail stores and seven catalog centers in a streamlining effort that also calls for the demise of the 97­year-old "big book" catalog. 
"It's a sad day," said Dan Carter, manager of the Madi­son store. "But we pretty much expected it." 
Sears reported a $833.7 million third-quarter loss last year, its first since 1933. Company officials blamed the loss on insurance claims for hurricane damage and an expensive auto-repair scandal. 
No one at the Fort Wayne center would comment on the closing, referring questions to corporate headquarters in Chicago. Most of the 1,000 workers at the facility are part-time employees. 
Carter, who at age 53 has been with Sears 36 years. said he and his two full-time employees at the Madison store had been offered a "very good" retirement package. The eight parHime workers have the option of transferring to another store, Carter said. 
Shoppers in the Madison area will have to travel to Louisville, Ky.. if they want to trade with Sears. They'll still be able to have their Sears products serviced, but it won't be as convenient as it used to be, Carter said. 
In Washington, there's been a Sears store just a block off Main Street for 53 years.­
Manager Dave Huebschman said his 21 employees also will be given the option of transferring to another Sears outlet, but he didn't know how many might be willing to move out of the area or commute to another store. 
State officials said they were ready to help the Sears employs who lose their jobs. 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, January 26, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box a. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...••..•.............. David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor·in·Chief 631·4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Responsible dialogue builds on tradition 
It is time to celebrate the Maris' splendid record. It in scholarly qualification, to vio­nothing but the naked invoca­silver anniversary of the first Ed Manier I means the starred institutions late traditional teaching. tion of traditional authority are 
. A Left Jab .

conference on academic I are willing to chill inquiry by Rump collections of academic doomed to smother when all freedom and the Catholic Uni­the local provincial of the Jesuit use of unprincipled power. skinheads are, of course, their adherents have buried versity to be held at Notre order could and did. In every area of scholarly in­protected by the AAUP's aca­their heads in the sand. Dame (Academic Freedom and The "Marquette Plan" had not quiry, presumably including tort demic freedom principles in the Ed Manier is a professor in tlze Catholic University, Notre been implemented in reform, power may be invoked expression of sexist, racist, or Notre Dame's plzilosoplzy Dame, 1967). Perhaps it is also accordance with the standard to block the teaching or the homophobic opinion, whether department. time for the Notre Dame Law practices of faculty publication of results, arduously or not that opinion has been School to think of convening the participation in academic achieved by faculty satisfying all subjected to standard processes 
Misinformation
second. governance, including those requirements for academic of peer review, just in ease it Hnlatively few scholars at this published by Marquette itself appointment at their rank, can be found that the 
misleads readers
University would readily trade before the Quesnell case. including those for tenure. expression of such opinion does places with their counterparts The AAUP published the ad Such institutions claim the not raise questions concerning at Bob .Jones University, or join hoc committee's report in its right of censureship of teaching a faculty member's scholarly Dear Editor: Pat Hobertson and Pat Bulletin. and its next national and publication and the right to competence or acceptance of We would like to address one Buchanan if those worthies meeting voted to censure Mar­terminate or refuse to renew the scholarly responsibilities specific comment from the Jan. were to exercise their civil lib­quette as in violation of the the contracts of offending fac­protected by the principles of 13 letter concerning the 
"Declaration ... to further equal­
erties and start an extremely principles of academic freedom. ulty. academic freedom. well-endowed new college The censure stands, and A tenured, even a chaired, Perhaps, as an hypothetical ity". While we agree with many whose charter thumbed its nose Marquette is one of a small professor of law, could be fired example, such questions would of the ideas presented in that at the American Association of number of institutions to be as­by such an institution for be raised if Chaired Professors Declaration, we find one state­University Professors (AAUP), terisked as censured in the Jobs teaching or publication of of Law at a Catholic University ment to be misleading. That indicating their corporate publications published by all scholarship, no matter how published gratuitiously inflam­one statement suggested that purpose to preserve an au­scholarly societies. vigorously tested by peer re­matory homophobic opinion Notre Dame "will ask a preg­thoritative line of tradition ex­The AAUP asterisk means view, found by religious au­based on cursory, incomplete nant studunt to leave because cluding all individuals skeptical more than the star by Hoger thority, no matter how lacking and inaccurate acquaintance the pregnancy itself is a viola­of that authority. with the functional architecture tion of du Lac." 
of human genitalia and diges­We agree that some of the tive tract, and on views of the policies in du Lac and the man­special creation of the human ner in which the University body long since discarded by handles many situations are 
papal authority. Academic inappropriate. However, to freedom does not protect in­state that Notre Dame will ask competent scholarship. a pregnant student to leave· is 
Nor can religious authority be false. We were not asked to invoked as the final arbiter of 
leave, but instead, the Univer­the truth of teaching and sity offered us assistance that research in any institution of enabled us to continue our edu­
higher learning that nurtures cation here and to graduate in critical inquiry and vigorous the spring. 
dialogue among opposed camps The purpose of this letter was respectful of the institution's not to criticize but to point out stature and, clearly relevant an unsound piece of informa­and unequivocally promulgated, tion. We encourage anyone who its religious tradition. may have questions to ap­
Traditions are strengthened, proach the University rather not weakened, by responsible than jump to unnecessary con­dialogue. clusions. 
It is close to an iron law of 
Kathleen Y. Mackie modernity that traditions which Alysia Courtot seek to preserve the past by Jan,21, 1993 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

JOAN!&~ 
HI,?VW FITZ!?IGGCR.f 
f 
RTZP!GG&R.' I 
SATBeH!N!? 'rtJU IN 70RT5 CLA55 
AT~YI 
5MAU /.1.,()/?W, f3H2 
f 
tlff5t.l., Ht3RE YCXJ 
ARe, A80UT 7V !*COMBAMAJOR HONCh'/37713 AT 
f</GHT? 
''-~---,6&7 

'Ability may get you to the top, but it takes character to keep you there.' 
John Wooden 
QUOTE.<.,', P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, January 26, 1993 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-human: it might 'sound corny, but it's true' 
Dear Editor: 
1\vo assumptions were made of me after the printing of my Jetter concerning racism (The Observer, Jan. 14). First, some people assumed that I was white. Second, because of my skin color they felt I was inherently ignorant of racism and that I have never been a victim of it. 
I write this letter to clarify the intent of my original letter and to dispel the myth that whites cannot be victims of discrimination, particularly racism. 
Socrates once said, "A man who really fights for justice must lead a private, not a pub­lic, life if he is to survive for even a short time. This might be true. However, I feel racism must be fought primarily in the public, through communication and education. 
The focus of my original letter was to communicate; this one, to educate. I do not normally reveal aspects of my personal life in my letters, but I will do so in this letter in order to challenge the labels of being ignorant and insensitive. 
Their first assumption was correct. Their second assump­tion was not. As a white male, I might be stupid for writing openly about my feelings on racism, but I do not feel that I am ignorant to racial issues or racism. Also, as a Caucasian, I have been in the majority and the minority, and I have been hurt by discrimination and racism from both vantage points. 
How can a white be a minority? Well, what if that white person Jives in another country besides the United States? I lived as an ethnic and national minority when I lived in West Germany from 1980­1983. I lived as an ethnic, na­tional, and racial minority in South Korea from 1987-1989. 
Around 1981, the United States installed nuclear warheads in West Germany. The night President Reagan announced the installment, my family's car was keyed with the USA sticker being crossed out. Is that being a victim of preju­dice and hate? 
How about German youths coming up to me and my friends and jumping us on more than one occasion? What about having old German ladies follow directly behind me whenever I would walk through their stores? How about being intently and directly stared at every time my family ate at a German restaurant? 
My life in South Korea was similar, although surprisingly the discrimination was not as bad as it was in Germany. However, I was a victim of prejudice there too. 
How would you like to go to school with military police rid­ing in your buses armed with M-16's and bullet proof helmets and vests? How about having to pay double the price for the same shirt at local stores that my Oriental friends would get for half off? 
I have felt the wicked hand of prejudice and discrimination in this country too, even being a part of the supposed majority. During my three years of junior high, I was commonly called "white boy" and "white bread." 
Once, an acquaintance of mine responded with "nigger" after being called "white boy." He was threatened by different groups of African Americans for saying that. School officials got involved and reprimanded him for using racial slurs. Nothing was said to the African American students. I and other white students continued to be degraded with racial slander. 
One of my first images of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was him being punched by a white guy. 
Dr. King did nothing in response. I was in grade school and our class was watching a video on racism in America (probably "Eyes On The Prize.") As I looked around the room at the African American students, I felt ashamed and guilty. I was mad at "my people." In fact, I hated being white. 
History books told me "my people" enslaved the blacks and killed off the Indians. History books also pointed out things like who was the first African American to die in the Revolutionary War although they did not mention the first person, regardless of race, who died fighting for this country. 
On TV, Louis Farakhan told me I was a devil. Also on TV, sports announcers told me I was slow, a hard worker, an overachiever, and that I could not jump. I hated being white and I wanted to be black. 
Growing up in an era where it was "cool" to be a person of color, I had poor self-esteem about my own skin color. As I grew older, I realized that there are good and bad people of every color and I started feeling less resentment towards my race. 
I started looking at the many good white people in history including those who lived and died trying to help blacks. Questions came into my head like, "If whites are such a bad people then why did thousands and thousands of white men die trying to free blacks from their bondage during the Civil War?" 
Affirmative action and mi­nority scholarships also per­plexed me. If white people wanted to suppress peoples of color then why were there in­stitutions set up to specifically help them? I started to realize that not all white people were bad and that it was OK to be white. 
My personal experiences with racism and discrimination probably led to the great inter­est that I have in racial issues. When I saw that ad in the Ob­server, it angered me. 
I knew what racism was and a rector telling a black student to take down a sign was hardly "concrete proof' of racism on campus. The purpose of my original letter was to question the legitimacy of the three spe­cific allegations of racism pro­posed by the various racial mi­nority groups. 
Billy Allen's letter (The Observer, Jan. 22) gave a great example of racism. Being stopped by security guards to show your ID based solely on the color of your skin is proof of racism; harassing phone calls are not. 
I was not trying to say that racism does not exist on cam­pus. I thought I made that clear in my original letter, but ap­parently I had not. Neither was my letter trying to say that be­ing pro-black is anti-white. For those of you who have heard myths about my original letter, I ask you to read it. You can get a copy from me or from The Observer. 
I asked an Hispanic friend to tell me what was so "unbelievably ignorant," "insensitive," "offensive," and "inappropriate" about my orig­inal letter. He did not like my letter, but he could not tell what was so wrong about it. Neither did the letters of Cristiane J. Likely (The Observer, Jan. 18), Alex Montoya (Jan. 18), or of Jeffery J. Dix (Jan. 22.). 
There was a lot of assuming and name calling going on, but little to nothing was said about the actual contents of my letter. 
I have told you some personal thoughts and experiences in my life in order to educate those of you who feel that I am bigoted and ignorant. Let me tell you some more things about myself. 
One of my best friends is an African American. My older sister is probably going to marry a Korean American. I have seen the stress that has caused on both families. 
I dated an African American during my freshman year and I still receive criticism from a few people for doing that. I liked her as an unique individual so I wanted to date her regardless of what others felt about her skin color. 
I have seen a variety of black activists speak, ranging from Joe Clark to Steve Cokely. I have read about the wrongs committed to African Ameri­cans and other peoples of color in our nation's past. 
I am aware of racial difficul­ties that peoples of all color (yes, even white people too) ex­perience in our society today. I was asked by Spike Lee's film company (Forty Acres & A Mule FilmWorks) to submit a script for my idea of a movie. 
I was alive during the racial explosions involving the Rodney King case. I would not consider myself ignorant to racial issues and racism. I accept being called stupid for speaking out, but I do object to being called "unbelievably ignorant," "insensitive," and even a racist by some. 
Although I have taken a lot of flak for writing that letter, I do not regret it. It has stimulated communication about racism, and communication is one of the best ways to fight against prejudice and hatred. 
I am not pro-white or pro­black. I am pro-humanity. That might sound corny, but it is true. I just wish others could adopt the same attitude. 
Life is not a political gift, but one from the 'God of Love' 
Robert E. Payne Alumni Hall Jan.23,1993 

Dear Editor:  to have an abortion?  I respond  groups, and I believe in those  conservative or liberal and if  a moving testimony of someone  
As a teenager growing up in  to the popular position that the  days they were not as clearly  one chooses to consider the is­ who once believed that there  
Binghamton, New York, 1 was  issue is about choice rather  Pro-life  as  they  are  today,  sue at hand, making theological  was a choice disconnected from  
very much exposed to the Pro­ than human life? Indeed, it is a  responded  with  massive  reflection a part of the practice  life and morality. I realized that  
Life movement. Operation Res­ choice, but a life choice, a life  organization. A nation was to  of one's belief, one is perhaps, a  my own frustration with the po­ 
cue began in my hometown. I  and death choice, not a political  be divided and the correspond­ cafeteria Catholic ! All of this, I  litical question both secular and  
attended a Catholic high school  one, not a choice of individual  ing fight for the equal rights of  believe, has caused the ques­ religious left me almost believ­ 
conducted by the Daughters of  freedoms, not a debate over  women was, I believe, tragically  tions of life and death to be­ ing that there was as well a  
Charity that required all of its  sexism. But how do we find our  enmeshed with abortion rights.  come a political fiasco that most  choice disconnected from life  
students to enroll in a class en­ way to the moral question of  Tossed about in the political  Americans and most Catholics  and morality.  
titled "Matters of Life  and  abortion after so many of us  turmoil, taken in by the labels  have grown to avoid even con­ Can we not all be so affected  
Death";  it  was  a  Christian  have grown tired of the political  of liberal and conservative in  sidering as a moral issue.  by our society that we can be  
Ethics class devoted to the  question?  both the religious and political  But is the question of the  left feeling that we can recon­ 
matters of the giving and taking  Since those days growing up  forums, most of us grew weary  giving and taking of life any­ cile issues of individual political  
of human life.  in Binghamton, somehow, I lost  of the abortion question. As  thing but a moral issue? Should  rights with the message of the  
It is obvious to me in hind­ the  feeling  that there  was  with any struggle with moral  we throw our hands up in the  Gospel call to love and do this  
sight  that  those  religious  something to be done about  import, as ironic as this fact  air now that we no longer have  without considering the reality  
women. whose charism has  ending such a violent crime. As  may prove to be, violence would  a Pro-Life President? Did we  of the human life we affect?  
always been to reach out to  I became more educated and  beget violence and the bombing  not learn from the Civil Rights  Can anyone convince me that  
poor  women  and  children,  perhaps more self-absorbed  of abortion facilities would  movement, a movement moti­ abortion is an action of love?  
grieved to the depths of their  (not unusual for my genera­ galvanize many of us from a  vated by religious beliefs, that  To my mother and father who  
souls every child who died in  tion), other things grew more  just and right cause.  justice comes from moral con­ chose life for  me,  to  those  
the abortion clinic next to the  important and my attention was  Parallel to the questions of  version and not political prac­ women religious who imparted  
local K-mart.  no longer on the office building  equal rights, many of us began  tice alone?  on me the sanctity of life, and to  
Long before I knew of the  next  to  the  K-mart  or  my  struggling with the questions of  Attempting to win a political  the brother whose intense con­ 
complexities  of  liberation  mother's wince as we drove by  authority in our own church. If  debate has, I believe, somehow  victions to protect life compels  
movements, the struggle for  it.  we chose to be on the side of  shifted focus  from  the life  me to write, I owe a great deal.  
basic human rights in most of  I did seem to notice that there  the  Pro-life  movement  we  question. The lack of respect  But mostly, to the God who  
our world and the evil of nu­ were other things in the world  would be agreeing with some of  and an understanding of the  gives us all life we owe more  
clear proliferation, I knew that  that entered into the questions  the tyrants of Roman accord. If  sanctity of life is evident not  than a choice to end life in  
the innocent were dying in the  of life. I as well grew intolerant  we were Pro-life we seemed to  only in the abortion issue but in  abortion. At the very least we  
shopping plaza less than a mile  with the man who stood outside  oppose so many other things.  the issues of drugs, violence,  can pray that those on Capitol  
from my childhood home, in the  Planned Parenthood a block  Pro-life was Catholic conser­ and abuse that permeate every  Hill in the days ahead will come  
shadow of the spire of my  from  my college dorm  and  vatism and that meant one op­ strata of this society. Let us not  to know that their lives are not  
parish church. I knew as well that my own mother had mis­carried three of her own chil­dren and grieved more bitterly at the thought that someone could choose anything other  screamed the Rosary as I walked by. The Reagan era had begun and abortion had never been more political. With the threat of dismantling Roe versus  posed women's total equality, the dignity of gay people, and the divorced from remarrying. We all seem to fall victim to a reified society where one's be­liefs are categorized by political  equate life with politics and choice with equality. Recently I was given a letter written by a woman, now mar­ried with children, who at the age of seventeen had an abor­ a gift of the political process but of the God of love. Walter E. Jenkins, C.S.C. Moreau Seminary Jan.21,1993  
than life.  Wade, abortion rights groups  correctness  and  one  must  tion. The letter was not the  
What could I possibly have to  were more organized than ever.  choose sides. Similarly, to be  simple outpouring of grief and  
say to women who may choose  Proportionately, anti-abortion  Catholic, one must be either  guilt that I expected but rather  
. ,.,_,  :  ''("! . • -·~'  7 :J  ')~~---~ .. 'J...~::./·..t):...~.:..~:~;.~..<~... ~-~:..."':...';..":..~:..·  -.....1" .... ____.._........ ---~-­.• ---· .  

r----------_,---------·-­
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, January 26, 1993 
Tastes great, less filling 
Mishawaka Brewing Company otters arefreshing and unique alternative tor Michiana beer drinkers 
By MARY SCHULTZE 
Accent Copy Editor 
Are you tiri'd of cramming yourself into a room filled with sweaty bodies drinking cans of Bud Light that were chillnd in garbage cans? Do weekends at the Linebacker leave you wondering why you risk beeoming claustrophobic just for a plastic cup of beer? The Mishawaka Brewing Company, a eombination brewery/restaurant which opened last October, provides a refreshing alternative to the usual overcrowded student hangouts. 
The Mishawaka Brewing Company began as an idea of its co-owners, Tom Schmidt and John Foster, in 1986. 
As a marketing executive, Schmidt would often travel: on one trip to Portland. OH. he attended a Microhrewnries meeting. "The peopln at the meeting were so excited about managing brew/pubs, and since I wanted to leave the eorporate world, I thought opening the first microbrewery in Northern Indiana would be fun," said Schmidt. 
A brew/pub functions as both a restaurant and a brewery. Open seven days a week for lunch and dinner, the Mishawaka Brewing Company attempts to offer the atmosphere of an English pub. 
Aside from the standard offerings of hamburgers and chicken sandwiches, the brew/pub serves traditional English favorites such as fish and chips, shepherd's pie, and Lancashire hot pot pie. Another appetizer on the menu is Scotch eggs, a deep-fried mixture of hard-boiled eggs topped with sausage. This is not recommended for anyone concerned with their cholesterol level. 
The highlight of the menu offerings is, without a doubt, the beer. Five brews cater to the preferences of the discrim­inating beer drinker. The Founder's Classic Dry Stout resembles Guinness with its dark color, high alcohol content, and coffee-like flavor. The South Shore Amber Ale is a slightly darker beer but with a sweeter taste. 
And for those who refuse to venture away from beers tasting like Budweiser or Miller, there is Mishawaka Gold Lager and Lake Effect Pale Ale. The specialty beer at this time is Resolution Ale, a dark ale enjoyed by those who prefer bitter beer. 

King Missile amuses; MTV's Denis Leary annoys audiences 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
It all started with nursery rhymes. 
And ever since Dr. Demento and Moon Unit Zappa showed you that pop music could be goofy and fun while still topi­cally relevant. you have been searching for the ultimate novelty record experience. 
The Violent Femmes cut it for a while, but th1~y soon became victims of the corporate mon­ster. Ditto for the Dead Milk­men. Even Tlwy Might Be (;iants, tlw goofiest and wittiest of popular late '80s punmeis­ters, have succumbed to their own 1\gos. They haw decidnd to be taken seriously. 
As They Might BP Giants be­gan to fade-Apollo 18 may have been the turning point-another, similarly hilarious outfit rose in the East. 
L1\d by the inimitable John S. Hall, King Missile exploded as a noVI\lty-radio force with its third album. Mystical Shit. Boosted by "Jesus Was Way Cool." Hall's touching confessional of his personal relationship with Notre Dame's favorite savior, the album opened everyonH's eyes to Hall's bizarre insight, and earned King Missile a major label contract. 
Happy Hour, the second effort 
lfmg Missne 
Happy Hour ***1 /2 (out of five) 
Denis Leary 
No Cure For Cancer ** (out of five) 
from that contract, lets everyone know that King Mis­sile isn't ready to take them­selves seriously-yet. Listening to Hall speak the album's first single, "DetachablP. Penis," is like wearing Blu-Blockers for the first time. You see things like you've never seen them before. 
Hall's needlessly detailed ac­count of a daylong search for his unusual penis begins with a description of the advantages offered by a detachable penis, and ends with the reacquisition of his member, for only 17 dollars. It's earnest, irreverent and hilarious-the same quali­ties that madn Moon Unit so lovable. 
"Ed" is a composition which reminds us that things aren't always as bad (or as absurd) as they seem. There's someone out there who is worse off than we are, and his name is Ed. 
"Ed was at the end of his rope, an expression he de-


enjoyed with your meal. 
Another specialty of this microbrewery is its mixed beer drinks. Although at first glance the thought of combining le­monade and beer is stomach­wrenching, the Mishawaka Gold Shandy, which mixes the Mishawaka Gold Lager with lemonade, gives beer a sweet twist. Other drinks include the Black and Tan, a mixture of the dark stout and amber ale, and the Snake Bite, a sweet combi­nation of cider and the gold lager. 
Although barely three months old, the Mishawaka Brewing Company has man­aged to attract crowds. "People come for the atmosphere, beer and food. The idea of microbreweries is still new. It's not a fad yet but many people are curious," stated Schmidt. 
Weekends are particularly crowded and reservations are strongly recommended. If there is a wait, 
tested," Hall tells us, his voice submerged beneath some swirling guitars. Indeed, on most songs, the instruments which back Hall's musings complement the material. They set a definite mood, though they tend to fall into typical col­lege-rock mode on about every other song. 
But even songs like "Anywhere," which sounds like something off of the next Toad the Wet Sprocket album, is goofily nifty due to Hall's in­sight. However, these tracks make us wonder-will King Missile become the next Cam­per Van Beethoven? Will they start to take themselves seri­ously? Probably. But not yet. 
And while King Missile may be starting to fade, another funster has released his debut album. Denis Leary, whose passions include ranting, rav­ing, smoking and Cindy Craw­ford, tells us everything on No Cure For Cancer. He kicks the album off by telling us a little 
something about himself. Denis Leary, the chain-smoking star of MTV and commercials, has Indeed. ''I'm an Asshole" recently recorded a comedy album entitled, No Cure For Cancer . 
world. Of course, Lnary insists on telling us about ten times. 
And by the time Leary gets to some serious ethnic humor ("Traditional Irish Folk Song"), and sings for the first time since the first track on No Cure For Cancer, we're sick of his act. 
sums it up pretty well. But in case we're not convinced, more than smoke and hot air, Leary offers another thirty he occasionally gives us some­
minutes of trash-talking about thing to laugh about. drugs, smoking and disease. And while his leather-and­
While Leary, one of MTV's cigarettes image wears thin, as five most annoying personali­does his recorded screaming, ties (count Riki Rachtmann, he tells us a lot about how 
Dave Kendall and Kennedy in ridiculous non-smoking areas as well), is usually full of little must be to the smokers of the 
however, the old fashioned wooden bar is a great place to sample the different brews. The bartenders offer small glasses of each brew with a written description of the ingredients and tastes. 
While the food is generally decent and the portions generous (espncially the shepherd's pie), Sl\rvice ean be slow and at times the food is inconsistent. For instance, the fried items such as the fish and onion rings appear to have too much batter. 
Despite the long waits and culinary inconsistencies, the homemade brews and specialty drinks make the Mishawaka Brewing Company a unique dining experience. 
Andrea Auyer, Beth Kessler, IJary Mehling, Anne Peterson, and Monica Yant contributed to this review. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent
Tuesday, January 26, 1993 page 11 


Campus singing groups band together to record a CD to benefit the homeless 
By MATT CARBONE patience and time. On average, it took Accent Copy Editor about one half hour to properly practice and record a song; the Alma Mater and 
Notre Dame has always taken pride in Fight Song, sung by three groups and the way its students use their talents for needing the most coordination, took an the benefit of others. "One Voice" is the hour. latest chapter in this long history of NO community service. "If anyone takes too deep a breath, or 
"One Voice" is the title of a compact if an airplane passes over," the song disc of songs recorded by various choirs must be rerecorded, said Paulin. "The and performing groups from NO and Liturgical Choir had to do something Saint Mary's. Proceeds from the sale of over because they pronounced the this album will be given to the South wrong Latin vowel sound." Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Paulin said that the groups took the 
This past Saturday, six different title "One Voice" from one of the songs groups filtered in and out of the band recorded by Shenanigans, and because it building to record songs for the CD: the is "most representative of what we're ND Women's Choir, Liturgical Choir, doing. The nine choirs are offering their Voices of Faith Choir, Glee Club, Folk music up as one voice" to benefit the Choir, and Shenanigans. (The SMC homeless shelter. Women's Choir and the Collegiate Choir will record their songs later this week). In order for this project to come to 
The CD will include two songs fruition, much help and generosity was performed by each group, along with the needed, for which Sipe is very grateful. Notre Dame Alma Mater and Fight Song, The University is letting the groups use which were sung by one large group the band building for free, and "has been very accommodating," said Sipe.'Something like this hasn't been "Dr. Snavely [director of the NO band] has been very helpful -scheduling for
done before-that's why we're combined, "it has been really hard to songs "that we thought were 
the band building is tight. Also, Campusexcited.' coordinate," said Sipe. Still, Sipe feels representative of the group; songs that Ministry and the Alumni Association
that the efforts of everyone involved we like; and songs that we thought
-Chinetta Hart have been the primary sponsors, and ex­
have created something special. "I think people would like to hear." Paulin said 
tremely helpful. Please give them some
it's going to be a really fun tape to listen that the overall goal of the CD was "to
consisting of the Liturgical Choir, the credit," said Sipe. 
to." get something representative of each
Glee Club, and the NO Women's Choir. 
Chinetta Hart, president of the Voices group from NO and Saint Mary's," while 
The result of this patience,
of Faith gospel choir, shares Sipe's simultaneously raising money for the
"One Voice" is the baby of Dean Sipe, coordination and generosity will be a
enthusiasm. "Something like this hasn't homeless shelter. 
the president of Shenanigans. Sipe got diverse CD featuring the talents of the
been done before -that's why we're
the idea after a conversation with an ND/SMC campus singing community.
excited." Latrece Stewart, director of the Voices
alumnus of Shenanigans who graduated From the Liturgical Choir's "Ave Maria"
The leaders of each singing group of Faith Choir, explained why her group
from NO in 1991. From there, Sipe did to the Voice of Faith Choir's
tried to capture this excitement on the chose the contemporary gospel song,
much planning, contacting the various contemporary gospel to the
CD through the songs which they chose "Jesus is the Light." "We're lifting up the
other campus singing groups and Shenanigans' recording of Carly Simon's 
to perform. For the past several months, name of Jesus -that's our purpose.
holding meetings since the middle of last hit "Let the River Run," there should be
each group's leaders discussed within Jesus is the light in all of us, which is
semester. something on this album that pleases
their group which songs to sing on "One what we try to portray." 
everyone. "One Voice" will completed by Voice."
The recording on Saturday was the late April, and will be available in the
After the songs were chosen and
culmination of many hours of hard work Bookstore and through local alumni
Denise Paulin, the pianist for rehearsed, it was time to record them.
by Sipe and many others. With over 400 clubs.
Shenanigans, said that her group chose This is an exact process requiring much
different singers in all of the groups 
'Mysteries on Campus' creates murder at NO 
By SARAH DORAN be awarded to the "Master Assistant Accent Editor Sleuth." while other partici­pants will receive T-shirts and Someone drugged the punch. other novelty prizes, according 
14 are dead. It is up you to to Lynn Ramsay, the Student solve the murders using only Activities staff programmer who the clues provided. is coordinating the event. 
So begins a campus-wide ver­sion of the murder mystery "The mystery is set up as en­game Clue, which is coming to couraging participant interac­Notre Dame on Wednesday, tion through the use of the pre­January 27. The travelling sented clues," said Ramsay, who murder mystery troupe added that "Mysteries On 
"Myster~.es ~n 'The mystery is set up as Campus" has
Campus will been very popu­conduct the encouraging particpant Jar at other game in the interaction through the schools. This 
ballroom of will be the first LaFortune and USe Of the presented time that the everyone _in the clues.' game has been room will be presented at involved in -Lynn Ramsay Notre Dame. solving the Ramsay was crime, de-encouraged by termining the motive and mur-the amount of student interest der weapon, and unfolding the in the game. Promotions for the mystery. game in the form of flyers and 
teasers have been posted 
"Mysteries on Campus" is around campus and the re­comprised of two comedians, a sponse seems to warrant that man and woman, who will stage the turnout will be good, said the murder with the help of two Ramsay. NO students. 
A first place prize of $100 will 


.....-----------------------------~----------------~-­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Great Sentimental Value. available as soon as June for 93194 Who's your basketball coach?\ STAYING here for the SUMMER? true. Full-time parenting. Best of the Please Ca!l Amy x4530. year. Call Kevin (317) 685-2926 Who's your basketball coach?! city; summers by the beach: your NOTICES Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 Sub-lease our apartment at baby rocked to sleep by a cozy basketball tix to the Kentucky CASTLE POINT-fireplace in winter, and by oceanFOR RENT WildCATastrophe due to take place waves in summer. Art, music, the LOST: N.D. VARSITY in the month de amor. Be a pal, CALL TODAY x4673 best education, endless love. Call 
TYPING 287-4082 
LEITERMAN'S JACKET AND samaritan, or whatever and sell him Franny or Stephen collect. 
PLAID SCARF-PLEASE RETURN, the tickets or one of his Italian THIS WEEK ONLY. MEN AND (212)369-2597.
'SENIORS' 2br. Apts
NO QUESTIONS ASKED. relatives might pay you a visit. Then WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE CUT
SENIORITIS WEEK 4 blocks from NO
CALL JIM AT x1 066 the time for haggling will be over. AND STYLE. CALL COSIMOS FOR SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! 
Tues-Oinner at Chi-Chi's $350 a month 
Call Skip at x2052 and leave a DETAILS JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469
50% off appetizers & more Newly Remodeled 
Found Wed. 20 Jan. » set of message if he ain't around. 277-1875. FLORIDA FROM $1491 ORGANIZE
232-8256 

two Chrysler keys on ring. GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, Thurs-Chicago Scavenger Hunt 
Nothing else on keyring. To KENTUCKY GAME SHORT ON CASH? LIMITED SPACE. 
$12 includes bus & great Prizes 3 BEDROOM HOUSE
claim call Kirsten at 4185. NEED4 TIX Borrow from the SUN SPLASH TOURS 
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$ MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 1-800-426-7710.
Fri-Senior Lunch SECURITY SYSTEM CALL MIKE@ 1719232-3616
LOST: Set of keys (and 2 bike 30 day loans ...AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! 
Sat-Pre Super Bowl Party 
keys) on Cubs and Notre Dame Up to $250 BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 
Sr. Bar9-2 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
keyrings. Call Brendan at 277-8178 I need DUKE & KENTUCKY @ t% interest MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH 
FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA 219-291-7153.
if found. tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, cheap nachos and other specials, 
xt235. Monday -Friday DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, 
Pizza Football Pool FURNISHED ROOM. 
, :30-12:30 CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, $170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. 
WANTED Need 1 ,2,3,or 4 GA or stud. 1st Floor LaFortune JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386.
Sat-Sun--SKI TRIP 287-2159. 
tickets for Duke game. Call Nicole O'Hara Lounge nmber Ridge 
at Xt618. SPRING BREAK "93" with $35 includes bus, lilt ticket, & hotel COLLEGE TOURS
Rentals $12 Bridget's is now taking apps. For Rent help To the guys who "most politely" CANCUN $459 Must be 21 and able to work Notre Dame Apts. 
i need t duke ticket asked us to leave the b-ball Air, Hotel, Parties, Nightly Bulls vs. Knicks Lottery now thru next school year. -Newly Remodeled 2Br Apts call julie x3736 court at the Rock: Entertainment! Interested in$1 lottery tickets Apply in person at 8p.m. on -Great Rental Rates Thanks for setting us straight! traveling for free? Become aBuy in LaFortune Wed, Thurs. or Fri. Start at $400/mth. 
For a while there we almost College Tours Representative. For
Winners can buy 2 tix for the game Call 232-8256 
I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS thought that women were aloud to more information & reservations Feb. 12 Books in Philosophy, world's largest MARY X2862 play there too. Our call: mail-order book catalogue, needs sincerest apologies\!\ LOUIE 1-800-395-4896.
LEARN TO CLOG OR C & W part-time NEED 4 TICKETS TO THE DANCE. BEGINNER'S VIDEOS. ( 1 0-15 hours weekly) help from an FOR SALE DUKE/N.D. GAME. CALL JOHN AT To S & S:FOR FREE CATALOG WRITE: industrious, intelligent, computer 232-2944. Top tO at Flanner 4 this Sat: FANCY FEET DANCE & BAND literate, politically incorrect, jargon­
FURNITURE. MUST SELL! 10. There she is; now she's gone. FOR ALL OF YOU MEATHEADS
WEAR. P.O. BOX 569-ND. free, non-deconstruction-disabled CALL 3234 I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for 9. He has no hair? WHO THINK THEY CAN TELLCLINTON, MS 39060. grad or advanced undergrad. We Kentucky -Brian x1 069 B. You grab one arm, I'll grab the EVERYONE ELSE TO STAY OUT sell books and books-on-disk 
t 00 Watt stereo with receiver and other. OF THE GYM, WHY DON'T YOU 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's worldwide and scan, edit, typeset, amplifier. 1 5" speakers,excellent I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR 7. But Matt said we could come GET SOME KIND OF HINT ABOUT in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-and publish scholarly books. Good sound, perfect condition. call27t-KENTUCKY GAME! back REALITY AND GET YOUR MEATY2342 NO Ave & Howard (not great) pay, no benefits, flexible 1443 CALL MEG -X3884 6. This is my friend who sings HEADS OUT OF THE ROCK. 
hours, frenetic pace, messy but beautifully
RAPID WORDPROCESSING enjoyable milieu, no ambience. 
1983 Ford Escort for sale. Great 5. I hate that bitch in the middle. !! !II!!!!!!!!
Call Lori at 271-0754 Learn the publishing business from condition. Call291 -6681. Summer jobs and internships-4. She's sucking his face! 
the bottom down. 288-4950. 
3. I'm Bill, the HAPPY BELATED 21st Rush Chairman! JENNIFER SNODGRASS
Dissertations, Theses. Adoption-Active, Young couple Stereo for sale. Dual cassette, I PERSONAL 2. There's a boy peeing in theTerm Papers wants to adopt your bundle of joy. 
turntable, AM-FM stereo. Graphic bushes! II!!!! !\IIIII!
Word Works Typing Service Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call University Directories, the nation's
equalizer. Needs speakers. Call 1. 2nd verse: If I only had a
277-7406 Peggy 1-800-682-8628. largest publisher of campus 
Sandy at 233-2407. BRAIN!! Hey Chaos! It is true, together we 
telephone directories, is reek havoc and always seem to find interviewing goal oriented students Love, Mel Trouble. But as Peppermint Patty 
50,000,000 for a challenging, full-time summer
MAC CLASSIC II -4MB Ram would say,"the ball is in your end of 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­position. Gain valuable experience 
BOMB HD, math coprocessor, the field", so I must ask,"do you feel 
Earn $2000+/month + world travel in advertising, sales and public
misc. software, network Is this you: like a chicken tonight?"... Or are
'SENIORS' (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, relations. Average earnings $3,900. 
cables. Still under warrantee. "I'm sorry dream lover I don't know you just too stunned by "Electric 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career Expense paid training program in
Call Jim at 272-t 365 to ask ?'s this dance." "Oh, bye." Blue"? KMA! Mayhem
CONTESTANTS NEEDED FOR employment available. No Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may
or to p!ace bid. Will sell to best Prevent this tragedy! Ballroom
THE SR. DATING GAME experience necessary. For be available. Interviews on campus
offer received by Wed Jan 27. Dance Lessons. Stepan 
Don't be lazy, just be crazy! employment program call February 3rd. Information and 
8-9:30PM Thursday.

Pick up applications in the Sr. Class t-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 interview sign-up available today at Office CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library 
Question of the Week #1 : Top 11 quotes from the successful or call 1-800-743-5556. 
girls' late night out! 

COME SEE DRUMMER needed to play all 
"How much nakedness actually did 11) Nice house, no one home and 
kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRISTIE 
occur on Saturday night?" the house wasn't even that nice. 
IRISH ACCENT Here's to mlstbo, being 'tp'ed 10) She's a bitter woman with a
I TICKETS
Student Painters is interested in and a lot of laughs. Have a great 
Love, The Gutch purse.NOTRE DAME'S OWN hiring highly motivated students to WANTED: day! -Anabel 
9) Sorry Pat (don't look at the walls) COMEDY & IMPROV manage their own bus. we offer Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. 
8)annannannannannann

TROUPE management training, credit Please call284-3814 .......SUPER SUNDAY ....... 
Question of the Week #2: 7) There's a parkingThis Thursday the 28th in the backing, and a full support staff at SUBWAY space ... screech 
La Fortune Ballroom. The earning pot. $8,000. join the most WANTED: Let us serve your game party. 
"T-man, what happend to your 6) Carrie owes me $5LAUGHTER begins at 9:00 successful painting co. in Indiana Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. 
face?" 5) She's wearing a retainer call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom Please call284-3814 Buy two footlongs, (#'@!')
Smith. Get third 
-Guess Who !I! 4)Do I play mind games? 
FREE! 
3) Oink, oink, oink @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! 6ft. party subs as low as 
2) Get his CC hat

ILOST & FOUND I 
GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 $37.95! 
SMC & NO Summer Programs­t) Stop kissing Pretzel Breath!! I need a ride to MIAMI(OH.) 
London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 7:00-4:30, oh what a night! I! 
UNIVERSITY any weekend I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! SR 23 & Ironwood ................................
15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 277-7744 
faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call 
LOST FAI AT THE SNITE (I Will help pay for gas Prof. A.A. Black 284-4460(office). THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! Spring Break! Daytona Beach! 
272-3726(home). X4209. Call BRIAN 4-2081 GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 Ocean Front Hotels: Quad 
Hey Ed, you looked good (HOT) on 
@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: VIP Saturday night!! 
LOST: Key Chain with 2 keys. DiscounUID card ... Round trip 
Florida SPRING BREAK 7 nights Chain contains bronze dolphin, red I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! charter bus from $199.50 per Beachfront $139-159. RESERVE Swiss Army knife, compass, and a GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 person!\! Room only available from 
rooms NOW. Call CMI 1-800-423-I LOVE YOU COLLEEN-FROM 
flashlight. Great Sentimental Value. I need a ride to Indy this Friday $109.50 per person. Limited YOUR FAVORITE ROOMMATEIIII
5264. 

Call Kevin at X1761 (arrive by 6:00 please). Call Dan at Availability!!! 4-4339. I will pay tor Gas! Help! I need NO/Ken. tix. call Emily 1-800-881 -BEACH. 
COLLEGE$$$ ANXIETY? $10 Lost: Ladies' Gold Watch before x5245 
BILLION available! 50 Sec. Finals. All gold. Scratch in top right PLAN AHEAD! I Adoption: Doctor and teacher will recording. Clip Ad for $5 off! (209) corner. FOR RENT: 4 bed/2bath house on 
make dreams for your baby come 951-1002. Corbv St. rwalkina distance to NO\ 
Greg Guy of UT-Pan Am. leads the NCAA in scoring 
EDINBUHG, Texas (APJ -A basketball court becomes a pretty small place whe.1 some­one like Greg Guy is on it. 
At 6-foot-1, the University of Texas-Pan American junior who is leading the nation in scoring is hardly a towering presence. But put a ball in his hand and he shrinks the court, scoring from anywhere, be it free-throw line or 3-point line, and doing it often. 
"Whatever shot I shoot, I think I can hit," said Guy. 
lie's been proving that since he first stepped onto the court for Pan Ameriean's Broncs late last month and scored 35 points. Since then he's averaged 34 points a game, enough to give him a commanding lead among the NCAA's Division I scoring leaders. 
The closest anyone's come to Guy so far is Tennessee Tech's John Best, whose 28.3 points per game still leaves him trail­ing. 
At this point, the title is Guy's to lose, said Broncs coach Mark Adams, who doesn't believe that will happen. 
"lie's not just a shooter, he's a great scorer," said Adams. "I don't think I've ever had someone who can score the way he can." 
As coach Tim Floyd of the University of New Orleans put it, "(Guy's) range is not the 3­point line. 
"The 3-point line is like a layup to him," Floyd told the Times-Picayune before his team faced the Broncs. "He can score in so many different ways." 
So it is. 
Guy leads the Sun Belt Con­ference in 3-pointers per game (3.4). free-throw percentage 
(91.9 percent) and is shooting 46 percent from the field. 
Adams readily acknowledges Guy's talent, but also admits the Broncs play a weak schedule. They have played once against a Top 25 team, the University of Iowa, and got drubbed 85-29. Guy, a transfer from Fresno State, wasn't eligible to play yet. But Adams said, "He's been challenged every game." 
And so have the Broncs. 
A team rebuilding after having 
been hit with stiff penalties for various NCAA infranctions, the Broncs have posted a 2-8 record. The team has been un­spectacular while Guy, who scores about half the Broncs' points, has been stellar. Adams said the situation hasn't caused any problems and that Guy's teammates are among his biggest fans. 

For Guy, however, the situa­tion has been a troubling para­dox, mixing delight with disap­pointment. 
The personal success " is kind of exciting," Guy said. "But my team, we've been struggling a lot. ... It's been really hard on me." 
Still, he wants to stick with the small South Texas school of about 13,000 students. 
"What would transferring do?" he said. ''I'm making a name for myself here." 
True enough. In addition to increasing press coverage, Guy has drawn the attention of at least one NBA scout, according to school officials. 
The last Pan American player to lead the nation in scoring, Marshall Rogers in 1975-76, went on to play in the NBA, though he only lasted two years, said university athletics spokesman Jim McKone. 
Guy said that while he'd like to play professionally, he's not to going to make a mistake and count on a career that may not happen. A self-described "average" student, the com­munications major plans on a career in sportscasting if he doesn't make it to the pros. 
''I'm not going to put all my eggs in one basket," he said. 

Tuesday, January 26, 1993 The Observer page 13 
~~~~~~~~~~ ·a·
--~ ~ : : : :: :: ' : :: :: :: :: : 4'" ~'\
0

E:> tt~ ~ A \• ,~· ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . ········ ...... · . , . \II . 0 ~ ~til e» 
~ '\! ~ W z~~:x~» • :: .: :: ••• : : :: :: :: ••• : : -,,,,-,-~' ~ ~ ~ 
' ..... ..... ..... . . ....... ...... ..... . . . . ...... ,.,._ .. 
NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division w L T Pittsburgh 32 13 4 Washington 25 19 4 New Jersey 24 20 3 NY Rangers 22 19 7 NY Islanders 21 22 5 Philadelphia 18 22 7 Adams Division Montreal 30 17 5 Ouebec 27 16 6 Boston 27 19 3 Buffalo 23 19 6 Hartford 13 32 4 Ottawa 4 44 3 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  Pts 68 54 51 51 47 43 65 60 57 52 30 11  GF 212 192 167 196 194 166 208 205 196 209 157 112  GA 164 172 158 187 178 194 172 178 176 170 228 245  Home 18-3-3 12-6-3 14-9-1 14-7-3 11-10-1 13-8-3 18-6-2 14-9-1 17-6-2 17-4-2 8-14-4 4-20-3  Away 14-10-1 13-13-1 10-11-2 8-12-4 10-12-4 5-14-4 12-11-3 13-7-5 10-13-1 6-15-4 5-18-0 0-24-0  Div 13-4-1 9-10-1 9-11-1 9-11-1 10-10-0 7-11-2 13-6-0 13-6-2 11-8-0 13-6-3 7-14-2 1-18-1  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division w L Pet New York 24 14 .632 New Jersey 23 17 575 Boston 21 19 525 Orlando 17 17 .500 Philadelphia 16 21 .432 Miami 12 25 .324 Washington 11 27 289 Central Division Chicago 27 13 .675 Cleveland 24 16 .600 Atlanta 19 20 .487 Charlotte 18 19 .486 Indiana 19 21 .475 Detroit 17 22 .436  GB 2 4 5 7112 11112 13 3 71/2 7112 8 91/2  BASEBALL American L..glltl CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms with Luis Polonia, outfielder, on a one-year contract. National L..gua ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Mike Stanton, pitcher, on a one-year contract and Wally Backman, infielder, on a minor-league contract. Invited Backman to spring training as a non-roster player. COLORADO ROCKIES-Agreed to terms with Dante Bichette, outfielder, on a one-year contract. MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with Jimmy Jones, pitcher, on a minor-league contract and invited him to spring  LONG BEACH ST. 84, KANSAS 411 LONG BEACH ST. (14-3) Camper 2-4 0-0 4, Russell 2-3 2-2 6, Tower 6-9 2-7 15, Rogers 2-5 0-0 4, Harris 10-17 2-4 24, Atkinson 4-4 0-0 8, Brown 1-1 0-0 3. Totals 27-43 6-13 64. KANSAS (16-2) Hancock 8-12 0-1 16, Scott 1-3 0-5 2, Pauley 1-4 2-4 4, Walters 3-8 1-1 7, Jordan 3-9 0-0 6, Woodberry 5-11 2-2 12, Rayford 0-1 0-2 0, Richey 0-0 0-1 0, Pearson 1-2 0-0 2, Ostertag 0-2 0-0 0, Gur1ey 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 22-52 5-16 49. Halftime-long Beach St. 35, Kansas 21. 3-Point goal&--Long Beach St. 4-6 (Harris 2­3, Brown 1-1, Tower 1-2), Kansas 0-9 (Pearson 0-1, Woodberry 0-2, Walters 0-3,  
Norris Division w Chicago 30 Detroit 27 Minnesota 24 Toronto 23  L 17 20 17 19  T 6 4 8 7  Pts 66 58 56 53  GF 185 212 172 166  GA 141 176 161 156  Home 17-6-4 16-11-2 12-7-6 13-8-4  Away 13-11-2 11-9-2 12-10-2 10-11-3  Div 15-7-2 10-10-3 10-6-3 11-9-4  Milwaukee 15 23 .395 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldw..t Division w L Pet. Utah 25 13 .658 San Antonio 24 13 . 649  11 GB 1/2  training as a non-roster player. NEW YORK METS-Named Maury Wills part-time baserunning instructor. BASKETBALL National Baskat~ll Aasoclatlon ATLANTA HAWKS-Activated Blair Ras- Jordan 0-3). Fouled out-Scott. Rebounds-Long Beach St. 29 (Tower 8), Kansas 26 (Hancock 13). AssisiS--long Beach St. 16 (Camper 5), Kansas 5 (Pauley, Walters. Jordan, Woodberry, Richey). Total fouls-Long Beach St. 17, Kansas 17. A-15,800.  
StLouis  20  23  6  46  169  177  13-9-3  7-14-3  7-12-4  Houston  22  17  564  3112  mussen, center, from the injured list Waived  
Tampa Bay 16 32 3 35 161 196 9-14-1 7-18-2 5-14-2 Smythe Division Vancouver 29 14 6 64 220 151 19-3-2 10-11-4 17-5-2 Calgary 25 18 6 56 187 161 14-9-2 11-9-4 12-5-3 Winnipeg 24 20 5 53 185 182 16-6-2 8-14-3 11-8-3 Los Angeles 23 20 5 51 195 202 13-9-2 10-11-3 9-11-2 Edmonton 17 27 7 41 139 197 12-10-4 5-17-3 7-16-1 San Jose 6 41 2 14 134 237 4-18-1 2-23-1 4-15-1 Monday's Game Wednesday's Games Montreal 3, Boston 2, OT Hartford at Montreal, 7:40p.m. Tuesday's Games Washington at Buffalo, 7:40p.m. Boston at Quebec, 7:40 p.m. Winnipeg at New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. New Jersey at New York Islanders, 7:40 p.m. Detroit at Edmonton, 9:40p.m. Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:40p.m. Chicago at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. Minnesota at Toronto, 7:40p.m. Buffalo at Philadelphia, 7:40p.m. Ottawa at St. Louis, 8:40p.m. Detroit at Calgary, 9:40p.m. San Jose at Los Angeles, 10:40 p.m. Bruins-Canadians, Sums (slashing), 6:58; Kvartalnov, Bos (hooking), -------------------------­Boston 1 0 1 0-2 10:57; Skrudland, Mon (kneeing), 14:47; Montreal 1 1 0 1-3 Schneider, Mon (charging), 15:45. First Parlod-1, Montreal, Bellows 21 Third Perlod---4, Boston, Oates 30 (Damphousse, Brisebois), 2:03 (pp). 2, (Ruzicka, Sweeney), 19:18. Penalties-Boston, Featherstone 2 (Shaw, Kvartainov). Carbonneau, Mon (hooking), 5:51; Shaw, 3:52 (pp). Penalties-Sweeney, Bos Bos (hooking), 7:38; Richer, Bos (holding), (interference), 1:47; Brisebois, Mon 14:16. (tripping), 2:22; Dionne, Mon (slashing), Overtlm-5, Montreal, Ronan 4 6:13; Demphousse, Mon (hooking), 11:1 1; (Dufresne, Carbonneau), :14. Penalties-Dufresne, Mon (boarding), 15:13; Oates, None. Bos (tripping), 15:37; Schneider, Mon Shots on goal-Boston 4-8-7-0-19. (roughing), 15:37; Blue, Bos, served by Montreal7-14-7-1-29. Panteleyev (tripping), 18:26. Missed penalty shot-Savard, Mon, 2:34 Second Psrlod-3, Montreal, second.  Denver 12 25 .324 12112 Minnesota 7 27 206 16 Dallas 3 33 .083 21 Pacific Division Phoenix 28 8 .778 Portland 27 11 .711 2 Seattle 27 11 .711 2 LA Lakers 20 18 .526 9 LA Clippers 20 19 .513 9112 Golden State 19 20 .487 101/2 Sacramento 15 23 .395 14 Sunday's Games LA Lakers 112, Washington 110, OT San An1Dnio 1 03, Chicago 99 Portland 124, Utah 113 Miami 122, Dallas 1 06 New Jersey 100, Houston 83 Indiana 112, Charlotte 1 05 LA Clippers 116, Seattle 95 Monday's Games Late Game Not lnduded Atlanta 117, Sacramento 106 Phoenix 121, Detroit 1 19 Minnesota at Denver, (n) Tuesday's Games Philadelphia at New York, 7:30p.m. LA Lakers at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Miami at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Manta at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Utah, 8 p.m. Houston at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Chicago at Dallas, 8:30p.m. Golden State at Portland, 10:30 p.m.  Alex Stivrins, forward. SACRAMENTO KINGS-Placed Walt Williams, guard, on the injured list. Activated Marty Conlan, forward, from the injured list. Continental Basketball Auoclatlon FORT WAYNE FURY-Named Rick Barry coach. United States Basketball League LONG ISLAND SURF-Named Herb Ma­chol director of public relations and market­ing and Ken Martinez director of business operations. FOOTBALL National Football Laagua DENVER BRONCOS-Named Wade Phillips coach. GENERAL ORANGE COUNTY SPORTS ASSOCIA­TION-Named Bob Hoyt president. HOCKEY National Hockey Laagua NEW YORK RANGERS-Announced Mike Hurlbut, defenseman, and Mike Richter, goalie, have been added to the roster after conditioning assignments at Binghamton of the American Hockey League. Sent Corey Hirsch, goalie, to Binghamton. East Coast Hockey League SOUTH CAROLINA-Announced team name will be Sharks. COLLEGE SLIPPERY ROCK-Named Scott L. Bruce athletic trainer. WAKE FOREST-Named Chris Allen, Teryl Austin and Ray Rychleski assistant football coaches.  Top 25 Schadula ------------­Monday's Gamsa No.1 Kansas vs. Long Beach State, 8 p.m. No. 15 Virginia at William & Mary, 7 p.m. Tuesday's Gamas No. 4 Kentucky vs. LSU, 9:30p.m. No. 5 Michigan vs. Ohio State, 7:30p.m. No. 7 Duke vs. San Francisco, 7:30 p.m. No. 22 Connecticut at Miami, 7:30 p.m. No. 25 Houston at Texas Tech, 8:30p.m. Wadnaaday'a GamH No.2 Indiana vs. Minnesota, 8 p.m. No. 3 North Carolina vs. No. 19 Flor1da State, 9 p.m. No.6 Cincinnati vs. Xavier, Ohio, 8 p.m. No.9 Seton Hall at No. 21 Georgetown, 7 p.m. No. 12 Vanderbilt at Tennessee, 7:30p.m. No. 13 Pittsburgh vs. Syracuse at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena, 8 p.m. No. 15 Virginia vs. Wake Forest, 7:30p.m. No. 16 Arkansas at Mississippi State, 8 p.m. No. 18 Georgia Tach vs. N.C. State, 7:30 p.m. No. 20 Oklahoma vs. Florida A&M, 8:30 p.m. Thursday's Games No.8Arizonaat0regon,10p.m. No. 1 0 UNLV at Nevada, 1 0:30 p.m. No. 11 Iowa at Michigan State, 7:30p.m. No. 14 Purdue at Northwestern, 8 p.m. No. 17 Utah at Wyoming, 9:30p.m. Friday's Game No games scheduled  
Damphousse 26 (Muller, Schneider), 7:44 (pp). Penalties--Featherstone, Bos  Power-play Opportunities-Boston 1 of 7; Montreal 2 of 6.  

Mark yourcalendar! Come....hear_____ 
7:30 
··a~oo~~---~······-··---····-········-··
·········-~~--··&·Gr~···········---­
8:30 
:.211aes~:s::::two::::::::::. 
-~•:::PliU~:::••:: 
~~­
~ae:.:....... ···-··-·-··-······•::..
12:00 
i:?~~~lamalst:::::::::::::::: ·-·--to1---DeBartoto·-·--··t­
1:00 ·-··------------------------·--------------------·-·---·-------·-··-•--· 
..1.jQ'···~-.....-...o····-·av·-·······-········ 
..2~oo..-~_... --.,---........._..____ _ ·--·---------·------7:oo--pM··on--·--------·-·· 
···aa;·······-·-·········-····-···········-··-···-··-············· 
·-···------·-------·---Tuesday,------·-·---·-·--·
--~WIS-·--Speak-·-···--· 
---------------------------.:------------------------------------------------­
......----·-----.-,·-uarv---·6-·-----·-----­
" .. .
·--·tbe····Power---·­
----------------------------------------------------------·-··-·········----­
.1J.~ ::::::A::recepUOD:::~:::.,_::::Ute:::_Press~::::::::: 
-····-·--·--·-·---------·-~onow~---·---------------·­
Tue$day, .January 26,1993 The Observer page 14 
Powlus' coach says the top QB recruit leaning towards Pittsburgh 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Berwick High School quarter­back Ron Powlus, considered by many college recruiters to be the top prep football player in the country. will choose be­tween Pittsburgh, Penn State, Notre Dame and Miami, his coach said. 
Berwick coach George Curry, who accompanied Powlus last week on a three-day visit to Pitt, said the Panthers stand a good chance of landing Powlus despite getting a late start on recruiting. 
Pitt coach Paul Hackett resigned in November. just as the recruiting season ap­proached its peak. Former Tennessee coach Johnny Ma­jors was hired a month later. 
After last season. Powlus was voted Associated Press player of the year among Class AAA and Class AAAA schools in Pennsylvania. 
"Before he went to Pitt. Notre Dame had the lead and Miami was in there," Curry said. "But after looking at Pitt's offense. I think this kid said, 'Hey, I better give Pitt all the chance I 
can."' 
The decision will be announced at a news confer­ence Saturday. Curry said. 
Curry praised Ken Karcher. the former Denver Broncos quarterback who Majors hired as his passing game coordinator. 
"Over the years, I've talked to some of the top offensive college coaches in America. This young man is brilliant," Curry said of Karcher. 
"If they run that offense he showed, they'll be in the top 10 in three years. If they get Ron Powlus, they be in the top 10 in two years," Curry said. 
Pitt is trying to sell Powlus on being a program-maker. 
In Majors' first tenure at Pitt, he landed Tony Dorsett in his first recruiting class and won a national championship four years later in 1976, when Dorsett won the Heisman Tro­phy. 

Red's Schott meets with minority leaders 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Black and Jewish leaders who met Monday with Marge Schott's lawyer said she had established a plan to improve her hiring of minorities but must continue to show progress. 
The lnaders of Cincinnati community groups met for 2 112 hours with Robnrt Bennntt and Reds general manager Jim Bowden. and agreed to meet again Feb. 12. Schott met Friday with baseball's ruling executive council, which is studying her remarks. They have the pownr to suspend her or fine her up to $250,000. 
"They gave us voluminous information, and that's what we're working on," council chairman Bud Selig of the Milwaukee Brewers said Monday. "We're just going over the material and we'll move as expeditiously as possible." 
Bennett and Bowden gave the community leaders copies of 
~. 
the Reds' new guidelines for minority hiring and discussed the Reds distribution of money to youth baseball programs. 
"Our goal is reinvestment in the community," said Sheila Wilson, president of the Urban League of Greater Cincinnati Inc. "We want our youth to benefit from these programs. We've seen progress, but we want to see more." 
Frank Allison, president of the Cincinnati chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said the meetings had motivated Schott to hire four black former ballplayers in recent months and to start a minority internship program. 
"They're sensitive to our concerns," said Michael Rapp, executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council. "They're responding to us." 
Schott has promoted a black man to the front office, giving the team two minorities among 46 front-office employees. She also established a scholarship fund at a predominantly black Cincinnati high school. 

Newly Remodeled Notre Dame Apartments Now Renting for August 1993 
Models Open 
Mon.~Fri. 3~6p.m. Saturday I ~6p.m. 
Stop by and see the changes we have made! 
Great Rental Rates For More Information Call: 
MATTEO ENTERPRISES 
232~8256 
Long Beach beats Jayhawks 
LAWRENCE, Kan. (AP) ­There was another rout at Allen Fieldhouse on Monday night. Only this time, top-ranked Kansas was the loser. 
Long Beach State stunned the cold-shooting Jayhawks 64-49, handing Kansas only its third loss in 55 home games. 
"We're in Kansas. Is this a dream?" said Long Beach coach Seth Greenberg. 
Long Beach, which had lost two of its last three games and dropped out of the Top 25 ear­lier in the evening, dominated the game so throughly that the sellout crowd of 15,800 began leaving with about seven min­utes to play. 
The fans are usually so loud that it's impossible to hear the person sitting next to you, but Long Beach kept everyone quiet after building a 14-point halftime lead. 
"Tonight is a magical night," Greenberg said. "The tradition of this arena, the people that have coached here, the amount of knowledge that is between these walls, the people that have been in this locker room. I don't know what to say. This is just a magical place." 
Lucious Harris scored 24 points for Long Beach. while 
Chris Tower added 15 points and eight rebounds. 
"It hasn't hit me yet," Tower said. "It probably won't until I talk to my mom and friends back home. They're probably partying in the streets right now." 
Kansas (16-2) entered the game as the nation's top shoot­ing team at 55 percent, but the Jayhawks shot only 42 percent against Long Beach. They missed all 10 of their 3-point tries and made just five of 16 free throws. 
"It was a nightmare," Kansas coach Roy Williams said. "Everything that could go wrong did go wrong. We lost all patience whatsoever. It was a total breakdown. Fellas, we just got our butts kicked.... I can never remember sitting over there feeling that helpless." 
Kansas is the fourth No. 1 team to lose this season, joining Michigan, Duke and Kentucky. 
The loss, which snapped Kansas' 14-game home winning streak, was the Jayhawks' 1Oth-worst defeat in 38 years at Allen Fieldhouse. 
It was an amazing turnaround for Long Beach (14-3), which lost by 34 points to Virginia Commonwealth on Saturday. 
"It's one thing to put together a game plan, but it's another to have the kids execute it so well," Greenberg said. "To play in this environment and stay focused is just something special. 
"I told the kids to play as hard as you can, lay your guts on the floor, because if you don't you're going to see yourself on ESPN tonight and you're going to be embarrassed and you're going to see yourself in USA Today tomorrow and you're going to be embarrassed." 
Instead, Kansas was embar­rassed. 
The Jayhawks endured a 6­minute scoring drought in the first ·half, allowing Long Beach to take a 34-17 lead. Kansas, which lost its first game to Michigan on Dec. 30, shot only 37 percent in the first half and trailed 35-21 at the break. 
The Jayhawks didn't fare any better after intermission. Mike Atkinson hit two straight bas­kets early in the second half to give Long Beach a 45-28 lead, and the 49ers increased the margin to 54-33 midway through the half on a basket by Harris. 
Darrin Hancock scored 16 points for Kansas. 
Air Force boxer dies while training 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -Doctors believe a blood clot caused the death of a 21-year-old airman who died during the weekend after a boxing session at Kelly Air Force Base. 
Airman Michael J. Butler of Eglin Air Force Base in Florida died Saturday morning at Wil­ford Hall Air Force Medical Center. He had been in a coma since collapsing Thursday after a sparring session. 
Butler was the third person to die in a week in unrelated inci­dents at San Antonio military bases. 
He had been on temporary duty at Kelly to participate in the worldwide Air Force Box­Off competition Jan. 15-17 and had remained at Kelly for addi­tional training. 
Butler and his sparring part­ner left the gym to get some air after a practice bout Thursday. Butler then complained of dizziness and collapsed, said Kelly spokeswoman Maj. Donna Pastor. 
The airman was taken to Wil­ford Hall at Lackland Air Force Base, where he underwent surgery. 
Butler, who was assigned to the 46th Aircraft Generation Squadron at Eglin, was from Springfield, Ill. 
He had extensive experience in boxing, having competed in Golden Gloves before joining the Air Force. lie had been boxing at the base and com­mand levels before advancing to last week's competition, Pas­tor said. 
Tuesday, January 26 
Anthony Lewis 
Syndicated Columnist 
for 

The New York Times 
on 

''THE POWER OF THE PRESS'' 
7:00 p.In. 

RooiTI 101 DeBartelo Hall 
Co-Sponsored By: 

Student Government The Thomas J. White Center American Studies Department Government Department Philosophy Department 


Tuesday, January 26,1993 The Observer 
Edberg, Seles advance in Australia 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Stefan Edberg wrapped his aching back, served slower than many women players, and still won easily Monday in the Australian Open after deciding not to default in singles as he did in doubles. 
Leaping for overheads and volleying as deftly as usual, the two-time champion and second­seeded Edberg crushed error­prone Arnaud Boetsch 6-2, 6-3, 6-2 to reach the quarterfinals. 
The only evidence of Edberg's injury was in his serve, which dropped down about 20 mph to the 85-95 mph range. But the slower serves, with a little extra kick, threw off Boetsch and Edberg was never broken. Once he got into the rallies, he played as if nothing bothered him. 
Boetsch said he couldn't even 
tell Edberg was hurt. 
"He ate me up. I felt like a lit­
tle boy," Boetsch said. 
Edberg defaulted his doubles match Sunday because of lower back spasms and worried about staying in the singles. He prac­ticed on a court across the park from the National Tennis Center Monday morning and still wasn't sure he'd be fit for his match a few hours before it started. 
"I made him hit every damn shot a man can hit on a tennis court during a 40-minute prac­tice this morning," Edberg's coach, Tony Pickard, said. "Now it's up to (ATP Tour trainer) Bill Norris." 
After Norris treated Edberg, Pickard said, "We'll give it a go." 
Even though Edberg got through the match with what Pickard and Edberg's doubles partner Jan Siemerink called a "serious" injury, his prospects appear dim of winning three more matches for his third Australian title. 
Not that injuries in Australia are new to Edberg. He strained an abdominal muscle here in 1989, defaulting from the quarters against Thomas Muster. Edberg su,ffered the same injury in 1990 when he quit in mid-match in the final against Ivan Lendl. 
Edberg's backache should brighten the hopes of Sampras, who is in the same half of the draw. Except that Sampras has to deal with chronic shin splints, for which he gets ultra­sound before his matches and ice afterward. 
Sampras, the men's No. 3 seed, beat MaliVai Washington 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 to reach the quar­ter. 
Edberg will face fellow Swede Christian Bergstrom in 

Ill 
:z:
.­
and stopped the run of Ameri­can qualifier Kelly Jones 6-3, 7­6 (7-5), 7-6 (8-6). Forget next 
Calling All Clubs/Groups 
$Earn Serious Money$ Your fraternity, sorority or other campus group can easily earn $400 PLUS BIG BONUSES in one week. You pay nothing. Call l-800-735-2077 ext. 180 

plays No. 14 Michael Stich. 
Grunts or no grunts, Monica Seles still looks invincible. Fever or no fever, Jennifer Capriati just keeps winning. 
Seles played in virtual silence Monday against Nathalie Tauziat, who complained about her grunting at Wimbledon last year, but walloped the ball anyway to win 6-2, 6-0 and reach the women's quarterfi­nals. 
Seles, one of the few healthy players in the Open, kept up her average of yielding only two games a match through the first four rounds. The defending champion and top women's seed won the last eight games against the No. 13 Tauziat, including a stretch where she won 31 of 38 points. 
"When she plays like this, sometimes you can't do any­thing," Tauziat said of Seles' knockout shots in a combina­tion of groundstrokes. "It's winner, winner, winner, like a boxing match, one, two three." 
Seles next plays another Frenchwoman, unseeded Julie Halard, who upset Conchita Martinez 6-4, 6-3 to reach a Grand Slam quarterfinal for the first time in 23 attempts. 
Capriati, No. 7, beat Katerina Maleeva 6-7 (7-2), 6-3, 6-1 to reach the quarters against St­effi Graf, whom Capriati de­feated to win the gold medal in the Barcelona Olympics. That match was on clay, this one on hard courts where Capriati's newly developed net attack should be severely tested by Grafs punishing forehand. 
Capriati's fever went up and down and up the first week, and her abdominal pain came and went from a mysterious virus that bothered her only when she wasn't playing tennis. She got an extra day of rest Sunday when rain washed out play on the outer courts, and she looked strong against Maleeva, whose strained left thigh was heavily wrapped and hurt from the middle of the second set on. 
Capriati's fever is "all gone, thank God," she said, adding that the last time she had it was after her match Saturday. 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 
First American made Sumo grand champion 
TOKYO (AP) -Despite reluc­tance by some Japanese to see a foreign wrestler finally reach the pinnacle of their ancient sport, a committee decided Monday that a towering Ameri­can had earned the rank of grand champion. 
A day after Chad Rowan blitzed local favorite Taka­hanada out of the ring in a few seconds to win his second straight 15-day tournament, he was awaiting only the formality of one more meeting on Wednesday before assuming the title of "yokozuna." 
The 23-year-old from Honolulu, who gave up basket­ball for the life of an apprentice sumo wrestler only five years ago, will be the 64th sumo grand champion. 
''I'll do my best to train well and fulfill everyone's expecta­tions," the 6-foot-8, 455-pound Rowan said. 
He is known in Japan by his sumo name of Akebono, or Sunrise. 
"Promotion can't be helped if you let foreigners in," former grand champion selection committee chairman Yoshitaka Takahashi said. "I don't have any complaints about ability. But I don't feel good about this." 
Shinichi Suzuki, governor of Tokyo and one of the commit­tee's 12 members, said that in Monday's discussions some members said "Akebono is still young and there should be no hurry for the promotion. He should have more chance to study sumo and build up dig­nity." 
But he said that in the end, 
all 10 members present found 
no problem with Akebono's 
dignity or character, and 
unanimously recommended 
him for promotion. 
"Sumo is not a simple combat 

sport, it is deeply rooted in the 
long Japanese tradition ­
these are some of the justifica­
tions for not welcoming the 
promotion of foreign sumo 
wrestlers to yokozuna," the 
liberal national newspaper 
Asahi said in an editorial for 
Tuesday editions. 
"And yet, there is no doubt 

that sumo has survived as a 
modern sport and is trying to 
survive further into the fu­
ture," it added. 
Japanese news reports 

quoted Prime Minister Kiichi 
Mi azawa as callin Akebono's promotion "good news. Sumo will become an international sport, and this would help raise the whole level." 
Miyazawa was among Japanese offering rebuttals when the nation was stung last year by suggestions that racism was keeping foreign wrestlers from the top rank. 
Another wrestler from Hawaii, Salevaa Atisanoe, or Konishiki, was quoted as blam­ing racism after he failed to win promotion to grand champion. He later denied ever making the statement. 
Like Rowan, Atisanoe has won three tournaments, but never two in a row as required for grand champion rank. In many bouts, he has not looked impressive. 
''I'm glad he made yokozuna, not only because he's my son, but I'm glad because he's opening doors for more in the future," Randy Rowan, Ake­bono's father, said in Hawaii. 
While some of the few dozen 
foreigners among the roughly 
700 sumo professionals have 
complained of hate mail and 
death threats, the sport is be­
coming more international. 
Some Japanese sports 

officials want to see it in the 
Olympics. Foreign companies 
sponsor matches or individual 
sumo wrestlers. Many of the 
trophies presented at the end 
of each tournament are 
donated by foreign countries, 
including China and Middle 
Eastern nations. 
The Asahi editorial, which of­

fered congratulations to Ake­
bono, commented: "Inasmuch 
as the door was opened to for­
eign wrestlers, ... it would not 
be fair, to say the least, to dis­
criminate against them in 
promotion and other matters." 
And foreign wrestlers, like 

their Japanese counterparts, 
have to work their way up 
through arduous training ses­
sions at live-in sumo "stables." 
After their morning practice, 
younger wrestlers often must 
wait on their elders, cook, or 
mop the floors. 
There was consolation for 

supporters of the local 
wrestlers. Takahanada, a 
popular 20-year-old who has 
won two tournaments, was set 
for promotion to sumo's 
second-highest rank, champion 
-a rank held in the last 
tournament only by Americans 
Rowan and Atisanoe . 
JUNIOR PREMEDS 
TO: All Juniors Planning to Apply to Health Professional Schools 
FIRST MEETING  
Date:  Wednesday, January 27, 1993  
Time:  7:00PM  
Place:  127 Nieuwland Science Hall  
Purpose:  To discuss preliminary appli­ 

cation procedures for the 1993-94 year. PLEASE MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO ATIEND. 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -The 
experts maintain the Dallas 
Cowboys are a touchdown bet­
ter than the Buffalo Bills, who 
say being the underdog isn't a 
problem for them. 
"All year when we've been 
underdogs, the team seemed to 
respond," center Kent Hull said 
Monday. "This football team 
likes challenges and be.ing an 
underdog, that's certainly a 
challenge. And I'm confident 
we're going to rise to the 
occasion because of that." 
Despite Buffalo's track record of success -except for the last two Supnr Bowls -in the last fivn years, the oddsmakers are putting their faith in the Cow­boys. 
It doesn't matter who the AFC 
representative would have 
been, Jim Kelly said. The 
oddsmakers would have made 
the NFC champion the favorite 
because of the AFC's woeful 
performance in recent Super 
Bowls. 
"I've always liked being the underdog," Kelly said. "If you noticed in the past. we haven't been the underdog too many times. Going into the Super Bowl, I think that no matter who the AFC team was to get in, we were going to be the un­derdgs." 
During that time. the AFC has lost the last eight Su­per Bowls, including the two most recent losses by Buffalo to the New York Giants and Wash­ington Hedskins. 
During their run of success, the Bills have done well when not much is expected of them -with one exception. 
"Look at last year," Kelly said. "We were underdogs against the Hedskins and we didn't play 

Last Call! Study Abroad Last Call! 
Saint Mary's Semester Around the World Open to all ND/SMC Students 16 Semester Credits (3 sociology, 3 history, 3 economics, 3 religion, 4 arts) applicable towards college core, appropriate majors or as electives at NO or SMC. Classes in Madras, India. Extensive Travel: Japan, China, HongKong, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, India, NepaL Optional travel (air ticket included) in many cities of Eastern/Western Europe. Cost: Regular ND/SMC tuition, room and board for a semester, plus a reasonable surcharge. For Information/ Application: Dr. C. Pullapilly, Madeleva 336, Saint Mary's Campus phones: 284-4468/44 7 4( office) 2 72-0889(home) INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, January 27 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Auditorium 
CENTRAL SPRING BREAK ~~ji INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS 
t-800-32t-59tt 
7AM-7PM M-Th, 7AM5PM Fri, 9AM·5PM Sat., Mountcin Time ltl lf/S4 .•~--·.  _, ,...··~..  
24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS 1303)225·1514  
•Depend,ng on break date' and length of 'toy  

Bills comfortable with role as SuperBowl underdogs 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Vanderbilt fans are in basketball heaven, and it isn't even March yet. 
The Commodores have earned a reputation as giant-killers in their cozy den at Memorial Gym, while the women's team is riding an undefeated streak that has earned the No. 1 spot over rival Tennessee, which is No.2. 
"It's always good to show a school with the caliber of academics Vanderbilt has can be competitive in basketball, men's and women's," men's coach Eddie Fogler said. 
The Commodores jumped seven spots to No. 12 in Monday's poll after last week's upset of then-No. 8 Arkansas. 
Vanderbilt is 14-3, 4-1 in the Southeastern Conference and riding a trifecta of upsets over Top 10 teams. The Commodores toppled then-No. 9 Louisville in December, beat then-No. 1 Kentucky Jan. 13 and added Arkansas to the string last week. 
In a locker room down the hall from the men, Vanderbilt's women are 17-0 and have been No. 1 since Dec. 28. The top ranking is the first for any Vanderbilt team. 
too well." 
Other than that, Kelly said, "Jt seems like when we have ad­versity, we do play a little bet­ter. I think it shows the charac­ter on the team." 
Character through adversity has been a theme the Bills have been building throughout their up-and-down season. 
They otTer their record come­back win over the Houston Oil­ers in the wild-card playoff game as proof. Down 35-3 early in the third quarter, the Bills won in overtime 41-38. 
"After what's happened -no one thought we could come back in the Houston game and no one thought we could get back to the Super Bowl -I think this team has taken to that underdog atmosphere," wide receiver Don Beebe said. "I think it's human nature to do that, and we've used that to.our advantage." 
Despite the possibility of being the first team to lose three Su­per Bowls, the Bills say the minimal expectations of others actually will allow them to play looser. 
"I think being the underdog and not being expected to do things we have to do takes some pressure off," strong safety Henry Jones said. 
Most of the Bills' dismiss their position on the wrong side of the pointspread. 

"I don't look at it as a lack of respect because I don't care," linebacker Shane Conlan said. · "That's for gamblers." 
"It's something that the fans and the people betting on the game look at," wide receiver Andre Reed said. "As far as a player is concerned, it really doesn't matter." 

"Our women's team is getting a lot of recognition," Fogler said. 
The team, which dropped the "Lady" from its nickname after the arrival of new coach Jim Foster in 1991, has been playing to record crowds. 
The biggest crowd to date is expected Saturday against Tennessee in the SEC's first advance sellout of a women's league game. Memorial seats 15,317. 
After years of little recognition, Vandy's women find their upcoming game with Tennessee the talk of town. Local newspapers have been writing about the Tennessee game for weeks. 
And the city of Shelbyville, home to one Vandy player and two Tennessee Lady Vols, sold more than 1,100 tickets for this weekend's game. More would make the hour's drive north to Nashville if there were tickets. 
Vanderbilt's men also have been more impressive than usual. 
"We've got a long way to go, though, and we've got to rebound and play defense better if we're going to maintain where we are," Fogler said. 
oops 
The challenge for Vanderbilt's men lies on the road. 
The Commodores are 9-0 at home in Memorial Gym, where they have a .779 winning percentage in 41 seasons. A victory Wednesday over Tennessee in Knoxville would assure the Commodores of a winning mark this year. 
Vanderbilt won only two games away from Nashville last season and has bettered that mark with five victories this season. 
"I think this year's team already has shown itself to be a better road team than last year ... We've been competing on the road this year, and I do believe it's due to our being an experienced team and a tougher team mentally and physically," Fogler said. 
Seven road games remain, and winning there will be what impresses the NCAA Tournament selection committee most, Fogler said. 
"You have to look at the teams that have won on the road. We have not won on the road, so you really can't say much. The team that can win on the road is going to win the league," he said. 
• BAHIA MAR HOTEL &CONDOS • 
• PADRE SOUTH CONDOS • '·SHERATON HOTEL & CONDOS• • GULFVIEW CONDOS • • LANDFALL TOWER CONDOS • 
·HOLIDAY INN ·<:f rm
-5and7ni~:-ill// 

• VOYAGER • DESERT INN • 
•THE TEXAN •THE R;i• . 
• RAMADA INN· 
/_0 
-5 and 7 nif,::M­
(,PIJ 

•TOURWAYINN· .,: . 
•THE REEF • 
-5 and 7 nights -fuM 
1I 

• HILTON HEAD ISLAND J~'/·
RESORT CONDOS • 10.4 
-5 and 7 nights -fuM 
• LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL •
·5.,dlolg: 11'/~ 

AU PRICING FOR ENTIRE STAY-NOT PER NIGHT 
CALL TODAY 

Tuesday, January ?6, 1992 The Observer page 17 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Dan Reeves is on the verge of finalizing a deal that will make him the next coach of the New York Giants, a team official said Monday. 
"We are continuing to have discussions with him, but we are making progress, pretty good progress," said John Mara, the Giants' executive vice president and general counsel. 
Mara said he was trying to temper his optimism that a deal could be completed this week with the former Denver coach who led the Broncos to three Super Bowls and five AFC West titles. 
"That's what we're hoping for," Mara said. "We'll have to get this thing done first." 
"Quality without compromise" 
-. ­
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
-


LEASING NOW FOR AUGUST 
1 And 2 Bedroom Apartments 
Apartments availiable for your selection. 
•9 MONTH LEASES• •All utilities included• •Relaxed, Secure Environment• 
FOR INFORMATIO.N CALL 272-1441 
Reeves, 49, has been on a golf vacation in Palm Springs, Calif. A telephone message left at his home in Colorado by The As­sociated Press Monday was not returned. 
Robert Fraley, Reeves' attor­ney, also did not return a tele­phone message left at his Or­lando, Fla. office by The Asso­ciated Press. 
A source close to Reeves told The Associated Press Monday that the contract talks were in their final stages. 
"I talked to Dan today," the source said. "It looks like it will be done. Everything is going well." 
The Giants have been search­ing for a coach since Ray Hand­ley was fired in late December following a 6-10 record. He was 14-18 overall in two seasons. 
Boston College coach Tom Coughlin and Dallas Cowboys defensive coordinator Dave Wannstedt were approached. Coughlin decided to remain in the collegiate ranks and Wannstedt opted to become the head coach of the Chicago Bears last Tuesday, the same day the Giants general man­ager George Young started talking with Reeves in earnest. 
"He's the man if we can get it done," Mara said Monday. "We'd look pretty foolish with everything that's been written if he wasn't." 
Reeves reportedly will receive a five-year contract worth an estimated $4 million. 
Philips promoted to head coach from defensive coordinator role 
DENVER (AP) -Wade Phillips, who built an aggres­sive, ball-hawking defense during four years as the Denver Broncos' defensive coordinator, was named head coach on the team on Monday, succeeding Dan Reeves. 
Owner Pat Bowlen announced his decision four weeks to the day after he sacked Reeves. His selection of Phillips followed reports that his apparent first choice for the job, 49ers offen­sive coordinator Mike Shana­han, had decided to remain with the San Francisco 49ers. 
"I want to make sure you un­derstand -there is a lot of speculation that Wade some­how was the second man for the job, and that's not true," Bowlen said. "The guy who should have gotten the job got the job. 
Phillips, 45, has been consid­ered prime coaching material for some time, following in the footsteps of his father, Bum Phillips, who coached at Hous­ton and New Orleans. He coor­dinated the Denver defense the last four seasons, developing a stingy unit that once went 31 games without giving up a touchdown against a two-· minute drill. 
"Yes!" he shouted when in­troduced by Bowlen. "I cer­tainly will work to do the best I can like I always have, certainly for this football team and these fans. 
''I'm excited about this oppor­tunity," he said. "It was well worth the waiting." 
Weeks of speculation pre­ceded Monday's announcement, most of it centering on Shanahan, 40, who was Den­ver's offensive coordinator from 1985-87 and again in 1991. But Shanahan apparently decided to extend his 49ers contract after reported negotiations with Bowlen did not yield an agreement. 
"A contract was discussed," Bowlen said. "But we never got to the point where a contract was offered." 
When Bowlen fired Reeves on Dec. 28, he said he wanted the new coach to give him room to be a more assertive owner than he had been during Reeves' 12 years. He said he didn't think such a relationship would be 
Thinking of doing ayear of service? How about doingit 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
possible with Reeves. 
Reeves now is considered the 
leading candidate for the New 
York Giants coaching job. 
Phillips said he and Bowlen 

"have had great chemistry" and 
he thinks they will have a good 
working relationship. 
"We can work together on · anything, with him certainly 
having the final say. but I'll 
have my 2 cents in, and that's 
all I want," he said. 
Despite speculation about 

Shanahan, it was Phillips who 
got the job in the end. 
"This organization has won 

for awhile and we certainly in­
tend to keep doing it," he said 
Monday. 
Phillips made no secret of his 

desire to succeed Reeves. The 
day after Reeves' firing, Phillips 
held a news conference to say 
he would lobby Bowlen for the 
job. At that time, he also 
revealed a little of what his 
coaching philosophy would be: 
"Hire good people and let them 
do their jobs." 
He has said his philosophy as 

a coach would be to hire offen­
sive and defensive coordinators 
and oversee the operation. 
Phillips said Monday his first 

priority will be to hire an offen­
sive staff. He said he would like 
to make defensive backs coach 
Charlie Waters his defensive 
coordinator. 
During his years coaching 

Denver's defense, Phillips 
helped the Broncos get to the 
Super Bowl in 1989 and to the 
AFC championship game in 
1991. In both those seasons, his 
defense led the AFC in fewest 
points allowed, and in 1991 the 
Broncos led the AFC in 12 
defensive categories. 
He has previous coaching ex­

perience, as interim coach for 
the final four games of the 1985 
season in New Orleans after his 
father, Bum Phillips, was fired. 
He also was interim coach of 
the Broncos during the 1990 
exhibition season when Reeves 
underwent surgery. 
Phillips was an assistant at Houston, his alma mater, and at Oklahoma State and Kansas before coming to the pros in 1976 with the Houston Oilers. He coached linebackers his first season and then the defensive line for four years. 
-

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, January 26,1993 
Phoenix knocks off Detroit 
AUBURN IIILLS, Mich. (AP) ­Charles Barkley and Kevin Johnson each scored 24 points Monday night as the Phoenix Suns beat Detroit 121-119, handing the Pistons their sixth straight loss. 
The Pistons nearly overcame a 16-point Phoenix lead in the final seven minutes, but Terry Mills' 3-pointer spun out as the final buzzer sounded. 
Detroit is now 0-10 in games in which Dennis Rodman didn't play. He missed Monday's game with a strained calf muscle. 
Hawks 117, Kings 106 
ATLANTA -Dominique Wilkins scored 38 points and Kevin Willis had 30 points and 17 rebounds as Atlanta rallied in the third period to beat Sacramento. 
Sacramento led 58-52 at half­time, but Atlanta outscored the Kings 33-18 in the third for an 85-76lead. 
The victory was the 1OOth for Bob Weiss as coach of the Hawks, and was. Atlanta's sev­enth in its last 10 games. 
Nuggets 102, Timber­wolves 97 
DENVER -Chris Jackson scored 24 points and Reggie Williams added 22 as Denver ran its winning streak to three games -its longest of the sea­son. 
With the score tied at 65, Williams put Denver ahead to stay with a 19-foot jumper with 
5:30 remaining in the third period. The Timberwolves got within one at 90-89 with 3:38 to go, but Robert Pack scored five points and Jackson had four as Denver pushed lead to 102-94 with 5.8 seconds left. 
Chuck Person had 29 points and Doug West 19 for the Tim­berwolves. 

Alberto Tomba accused of assaulting ski-lift operator 
season for the Boilermakers (9­5, 1-4). 
"This group is something else," Minnesota eoach Linda Hill-MacDonald said of her players. "You get people like this to work with only once in a career, sometimes. 
"If I told them before the game that eating Wheaties will get us a win, they'll be back 10 minutes later with their cereal bowls." 
North Carolina's Tonya Sampson looked well-fed Sat­urday as she scored 38 points, grabbed 14 rebounds and handed out six assists in the Tar Heels' victory over Mary­land (12-3, 4-2). 
"They were the most physical team we've seen this year." said Maryland coach Chris Weller. 
Sylvia Hatchell, coach of the Tar Heels (14-2, 5-2). gained her 1OOth victory. 
V-Ball 
continued from page 20 

Another pleasant surprise has been Matt Stro.ttman, who moved to middle hitter to re­place the injured P.J. Stettin, who went down with multiple fractures in his leg against MSU in the pre-season. 
"Matt had tough shoes to fill, but he has really stepped up when we needed him," said Ceponis. "His blocking gets better every game." 
Stettin, injured in December, is expected back in 3-5 weeks. 
The Irish hope to better their record when they travel to Purdue on Wednesday, where they expect a fight. "Most of our matches have gone five games... this one should be no exception," said Madden. "They're usually pretty good." 
The next home match for the Irish is Saturday at 8 p.m. 

HOME (API -Italian ski offi­cials reacted cautiously Monday to reports Alberto Tomba as­saulted a lift operator in Switzerland, seeking details of the incident before considering any action against the ski champion. 
Tomba, as expected, was cho­sen Monday for the Italian team that will compete in the World Championships next month in Japan. lie will compete in the slalom and giant slalom. 
Helmut Schmalz!. technical director of the Italian team, said Tomba was clearly wrong but attributed it to a case of nerves before a race, and ex­pressed surprise that the protest was made so late in the day Sunday. 
A spokesman for the race or­ganizers, Jean-Pierre Bahler, said in Veyzonnaz that the Ital­ian star hit the employee in the back with his ski poles after ac­cusing him of opening the cabin door too slowly from the outside. 
Tomba, who was going up to survey the course before the race, latnr kicked a desk in the
.. 
cable car station, shattering an adjacent window, Bahler said. 
Race organizers gave Tomba 24 hours to issue a public apol­ogy or risk a police complaint by the employee, who was not identified. The deadline passed and the organizers had re­ceived "nothing at all" from Tomba, leaving it up to the In­ternational Ski Federation (FIS) to impose sanctions and the lift attendant to file a police com­plaint if they wished, Bahler said. 
"Even Tomba must behave properly," Bahler said. "If he apologizes, we agree to forget the entire thing." 
Tomba apologized for break­ing the window and offered to pay for repairs, he said. 
Organizers reported the inci­dent to officials of the Interna­tional Ski Federation (FIS), which could order disicplinary measures against Tomba. 
1\vo years ago, organizers of a super giant slalom at Lake Louise, Canada, barred Tomba after a run-in with a lift line at­tendant, though FIS later backed Tomba in the dispute. 

Alumni Awareness Week 
SCAVENGER HUNT CLUE: 
The prize twinkles in the light which keeps burning through the night. 
Don't forget to pick up your extra clue in the Alumni Association office R.M. 201 Ad. Min. 
GOOD LUCK 
The Alumni Fact For The Day... 
In November, the Alumni Association sent out a letter for names to be remembered during "All Souls Remembrance". 7,343 Alumni sent in 66,964 names to be remembered at the altar in Sacred Heart Basilica. In addition, 306 students sent in 1,488 names. 
ACC, Big 10 are top conferences 
(AP)-The Atlantic Coast and Big Ten conferences have been leagues of prestige in women's basketball this season by each supplying five teams to the cur­rent Associated Press women's poll. 
But they're also gaining a reputation as the leagues of big upsets. 
Surprises occurred in both groups this weekend as un­ranked Minnesota upset visiting No. 23 Indiana 80-70 Sunday in front of a record crowd of 6, 700 after shocking No. 15 Purdue 6 7-51 Friday night in Big Ten action. 
Meanwhile, No. 20 North Carolina moved into first place in the ACC by a half-game over No. 5 Maryland after the Tar Heels upset the Terrapins 85-80 Saturday in Chapel Hill. Un­ranked North Carolina State got into the ambush act Sunday by surprising visiting No. 18 Clemson 79-71. 
In Mnneapolis, the Gophers (8-5, 3-2 Big Ten) are at only the halfway point of this sea­son, but they've matched their entire win total of last year, thanks to Carol Ann Shudlick, who scored 26 points on 11 of 17 shooting Sunday. 
The Hoosiers (11-3, 2-3) won their first 11 games of the sea­son before their current three­game losing streak. It looked as if the streak might be ended early in the second half when Indiana launched a 12-2 run to take a 50-44 lead. But Min­nesota had its own 14-4 run after the score was tied at 66 with 5:17 left to play. 
On Friday night, the Gophers were led by Stacy Carver's 15 points as Minnesota held Pur­due to 35 percent shooting from the field -the lowest of the 



Today 
Tuesday, January 26,1993 
page 19 

SPELUNKER 
... AND LE.T Mt TELL YOO, FOLKS, I 1QoK MY ORALS AND BoY ARE MY 
LIPS TIR£D. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD 
1 Political alliance 36 Newscaster 67 Egypt's sacred5 Spread on Rather 
bull 10 He loves: Lat. 38 Lair 
68 Kind of bag 14lsland off 39 Earphone with 
69 Praise or raiseScotland microphone 10 W Calif. city

attached 41 Dismount 15 Author Ephron 71 Actor Sharif
16 Evil 44 Hockey great 72 Irritates
17 Agitate 45 Ring fig. 73 Weaver's reed
18 Scoff 47 Pains19 Feed the kitty 48 Long for 
DOWN

20 Some Siouans 
51 Head priest at a 22 Ohio's state religious house 1 American flower buffalo
53 Black cuckoo 24 Liquid or 2 Game like bingo
55 Repugnance gaseous 3 Edible bulb
59 Kind of ant 26 Baden-Baden is 4 Fondled
63John~, 
one 5 Paid notices
noted second 27 Voyaged baseman 6 Eyebrow touch-up stick
29Wearaway &4Above 1 Supplicated a One who ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE reclines 

9 Exaggerated tales 1o Embodiment of 
a principle 11 Kind of skirt 12 Low female 
voice 13 'Twixt 12 and 20 21 Flies high 23Mimic 25 Ocean 
greyhound 28 Pop 30 River into the 
Baltic 31 Parking-lot mishap 

Start thcz ttEW YEAR 
v~ith a 
GREAT PERM 
Volume, Bounce, Curl, Energy and Motion.... Only 
Sl995 

1811 South Bend five. 
at Campus Shoppe 
• Mon.-Fri.
Sr1opping Center 
9-9
!Just ,'\lorth of Frank's Red Hots) 
• Sat 9-6 • Sun. 10-5
271-7674 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

• 
Carlton falls for the old rubber-scalpel gag. 
32 Terminates 33 Nautical call 34 Withered 35 Home in a 1936 
best seller 37 Cozy places 40 Threefold: 
Comb. form 42 Hit hard 43 British homes 
on wheels 46 Part of F.B.I. 49 Hammer or 
Candyman 

JAY HOSLER 
STAND-UP 
~R~Dlii\'T6 
STVD6NT 
BILL WATIERSON 
MORE ('oiO'STI\LG\C: 1'1\RT <Jt C\\\l\:l\-\00!) GOE_'S ll\~ff~ . 
\ 

J~-~ 
C 1993 Watterson!Oistnbuted by Universal Press SyndJCate 
50 Volte-face of 59 Roman called ssw the Censor 
52 Rondure &o Molecule part 54 Deduce 
61 Roster 56 Flower part 
62 TV series with 57 Rubbish Danny DeVito 
58 Montaigne's 66 French specialty connectives 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1215 
Includes s:rampoo, Conditioner and FREE Ha1rcut (58 Value) 2 oz. 1\loe Gel Conditoner (52 Value) 
Additional Charge for long hair. Exp1res I/31/93 

Sports 

page 20 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
1------------------1 handedly win a basketball game, but 
Aussie Open hurt by lack of personalties 
Quietly, thn Australian Open has been going on over the past week without mueh notiee. 
There are many reasons for this: it's halfway aeross the globe, the majority 
• 
of Americans don't make tennis their number-one priority in January, the stories usually eome over the Assodatnd Press wire at 3 a.m., too late for a lot of papers induding the Observer, but one that stands out is the laek of big names partidpating. 
Though most of the top women are playing down under, the men's draw for the first Grand Slam title of the year is notidbly thin. 
Missing are familiar names like John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors and Andre Agassi. Both Boris Beeker and Ivan Lend! suiTered early defeats. 
They have been replaeed by the likes of Petr Korda, Wayne Ferreira and Carlos Costa. who were all seeded in the Australian, but are hardly house­hold names. 
With McEnroe now retired and Connors and Lend! getting very close to it, the sport needs another generation of big names and more importantly big personalities. 
In the women's game Monica Seles, Steffi Graf and Jennifer Capriati have picked up the slack left by Chris Evert's retirement and Martina Navratilova's fall from the top. 
Almost no one has picked up the slack in the men's game. 
The only current star that exudes on­court flare and personality is Agassi, and he is sitting out the Australian with an injury. 
The top two seeds in the Australian Open are Jim Courier and Stefan Edberg. Both are tremendous tennis talents, but neither has the auora of excitement surrounding him on and off the court that McEnroe and Connors did. 
Courier and Edberg are wonderful to watch, if you are a tennis fan. But, to the average sports fan who would not appreeiate the finer points of these players game, they appear boring. 
The same can be said for Pete Sampras or Sergi Bruguera. 
Last year. Wimbledon received as much coverage if not more than it did during the days of the epic McEnroe­Bjorn Borg finals. The reason being the performance of Andre Agassi, someone the average sports fan could appreciate because of his personality. Also, McEnroe's emotional trip to the semis in his farewell to Centre Court didn't hurt. 
Love them or hate them, players like Agassi and McEnroe are good for the sport because they attract attention both to themselves and to tennis. 
Maybe Andre's camera commercials are right, image is everything. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
r------------------, 
•ems 
comfortable as underdogs see page 16 

•Broncos 
fill coaching position see page 17 

•vanderbilt 
is tn hoop heaven see page 16 


Tuesday, January 26,1993 
Demons outlast the Irish women, 71-55 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

CIIICAGO -A player cannot single-
Notre Dame's Coquese Washington came pretty dose. 
There were times during Notre Dame's 71-55 loss to DePaul when Washington appeared to be the only Irish player on the court. 
"Coquese played with a tremendous amount of heart," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "She was the only one playing in the first half." 
Washington scored seven of Notre Dame's 21 first-half points. but DePaul's rugged inside game was too much for the Irish to handle . 
Cathy Pezdirtz, a 6-5 senior, maneuvered inside for eight first-half points. Defensively, she forced the Irish to alter virtually every dose-range shot they attempted, frustrating Notre Dame's front-line players. 
"Their big people hurt us bad in the first half," McGraw said. "I was disappointed with our inside game." 
The result of their first-half problems was a seemingly insurmountable 17­point deficit. 
But Washington wasn't finished yet. Her gutty performance early in the second half inspired her teammates and sparked a 22-5 run that gave the Irish the lead with 10:51 remaining. 
A swarming Irish defense gave DePaul a taste of its own medicine. Pezdirtz and teammate Keri Lorenzen rarely touched the ball during Notre Dame's comeback. Instead, the interior defense was denying the passes that looked so easy in the first half. 
"We started playing much better defense in the second half," McGraw commented. "That's what we needed to do for 40 minutes." 
Instead, the Irish seemed to tire after about 10 minutes of the second half. The 
Seven-match win streak ends 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 

The Irish men's volleyball team's seven-match winning streak finally ended Sunday at Michigan State, as they lost in four games to the Spartans ( 4-15, 9-15, 15-3, 13-15 ). 
Prior to that, the Irish had been riding a streak of success that really came as no surprise to senior Pat Madden. 
"We really expected to win all the individual matches, but it's still nice to jump out like that," Madden said. 
However, fatigue may have begun to set in on Sunday in East Lansing as the Irish met the always-tough Spartans for their fifth match in four days. 
Junior Brian Ceponis said, "We didn't really execute very well (against MSU). Up until that point, we'd been playing really well, but we couldn't get it done Sunday." 
Commenting on the fatigue factor, Madden replied,"We were emotionally flat as well as physically. We were tired, but we didn't have the emotion needed to 
Saint Mary's swimmers victorious 
Special to the Observer 

They say that variety is the spice of life. 
Swimming a different line-up, the Saint Mary's swimmers demonstrated this notion Saturday afternoon by defeating the Knights of Calvin College, 146-88. "We swam a different line-up and it worked well for us," coach Dennis Cooper stated. "It was supposed to be a close meet and we swam up to the challenge." The win was especially encouraging for the Belles since, according to Coach 
Cooper, they have reached the height of training and exhaustion is setting in. 
"This win was exciting because although everyone is swimming tired, we were able to rise above it and give solid performances, " said junior co-captain Ellen Kramer. 
Despite being run down, sophomore Katie Northup posted season bests in the 1650 freestyle, the 200M and the 500 free, while taking two first-and one second-place respectively. 
The Belles hope to improve on their 3­2 reoord Saturday when they travel to Wabash College to take on the University of Chicago. 
play well. 

"We weren't happy enough with good plays, and too angry with each other when we screwed up," he added. 
The Irish are still pleased with the season to this point. 
"We still need to gel as a team yet, but it's coming along really well," said Ceponis. 
The Irish have gotten a lift from a host of newcomers this season. Freshman Bill Raney, who showed potential in the pre­season, has been joined at the outside hitter position by Tim Regan and Miguel Ascencio. 
Another new face is freshman setter Matt Limtiaco, who had tried out for the team in pre-season and was asked back when the Irish found themselves in need of his skills to replace defensive specialist Dan Cavanaugh. 
"We needed another setter, so we brought Matt in, and he should do really well once he gets into the flow," said Madden. "Bill, Tim and Miguel have all been great so far." 
see V-Ball /page 18 
I 

The Observer I John Bingham 
Letitia Bowen, here shooting against Loyola (Ill.), and the Irish women fell to DePaul in 
Chicago last night. 
same shots that were falling just minutes earlier started to come up short and the Blue Demons returned to their first-half form. 
There wouldn't be another comeback. 
"It took all we had to come back, but then we just ran out of gas," McGraw explained. "If I had done a better job using the bench, that might not have happened." 
There are plenty of "ifs" to go around. Most importantly, if the Irish had played the entire game like they played the first 10 minutes of the second half, they would have left winners. 
Williams probable 

/''''' 
Monty Williams 

Observer Staff Report 
First it was an ankle, and now it is a rib. 
Monty Williams, who suffered a rib injury in Saturday's win over LaSalle, is day-to-day entering this week's schedule, according to trainer Skip Meyer. 
Meyer explained that Williams had suffered a cartilage strain in his rib cage, but had improved since the week­end's game. 
Williams, who has still not completely recovered from an ankle injury suffered on January 16 at Michigan, attended practice yesterday under Meyer's supervision. 
"He'll be out there a little while today," said Meyer before yesterday's practice. "We're not sure how much, but he's day to day." 
Notre Dame will travel to Columbia, Mo. to play Missouri tomorrow night. Williams' status for that game is unresolved at this time. 







