• The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 79 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Administration: Multi-billion dollar stimulus plan likely 
WASHINGTON {AP) -The nal decisions had been made, omy that, while showing im­ery, until we get those jobs Lloyd Bentsen and Budget Di­
•administration, confronted with but his comments were the provement in recent months, is back," Reich said in an inter­rector Leon Panetta, worried stark evidence that U.S. corpo­strongest indication yet of the still troubled. Just Tuesday, view on ABC's "Good Morning about an adverse impact on fi­rate giants are still shedding shape of the administration's some of the mainstays of cor­America." nancial markets from out-of­jobs by the thousands, said proposed stimulus program. porate America -IBM, the For this reason, Reich said, "I control budget deficits, have Tuesday that President Clinton The White House said Tues­Boeing Co. and United Tech­think there probably will be a argued for a smaller figure. will likely propose $15 billion to day that Clinton's economic nologies Corp. -announced stimulus package." He said it Asked whether the smaller $20 billion in government program, which will link stimu­new job layoffs for 1993 in was likely to be "in the range of package would have much af­spending and tax breaks to lus this year with a long-term further efforts to deal with $15 billion to $20 billion." fect, Stephanopoulos replied, jump-start the economy this effort to reduce soaring budget weak sales. Reich admitted that in terms "Absolutely. If we can get year. deficits, will be unveiled by the of the overall economy such an money in the pipeline now to 
Labor Seeretary Robert Reich president in a State of the That followed the announce­amount was "very small, but it build our highways, to create conceded that this was a small Union address to Congress on ment Monday that Sears, Roe­does send a very clear signal jobs, if we can get private sec­total in comparison to the $6 Feb. 17. buck and Co. planned to elimi­that we have to get the growth tor investment incentives ... I trillion economy but he insisted That gives the administration nate 50,000 jobs, close more back, we've got to get the econ­think there is a real job creation that it would still send "a very just three weeks to reach a than 100 stores and pull the omy back on track." possibility." clear signal that we have got to myriad of decisions on such plug on its 97-year-old cata­Robert Reischauer, head of get the growth back." questions as what public works logue operation. Since the election, Clinton's the Congressional Budget Of­
At the White House, commu­projects should pushed forward Reich said that while some advisers have been split over a fice, released new deficit esti­nications director George and what tax breaks offered economic indicators have modest plan of around $20 bil­mates Tuesday that were even Stephanopoulos agreed with this year to boost growth while turned up recently, that has not lion and calls for a bold pro­more bleak than those included Reich's assessment that a at the same time proposing been matched by significant gram of around $60 billion in in the Bush administration's fi­stimulus package was likely but spending cuts in popular benefit improvement in the unem­increased spending, which nal budget. The CBO projected he told reporters that it could programs such as Social Se­ployment picture, which re­Clinton's more liberal advisers that last year's record deficit of be "a little higher" than the curity and tax increases in fu­mained stuck at 7.3 percent in have said was essential to get $290 billion would grow to figures mentioned by Reich. ture years. December. the jobless rate down more $319 billion in 1997 and hit an 
Reich and other administra~ The debate is taking place "We can't have a genuine re­quickly. 
see STIMULUS page 4 
tion officials insisted that no fi-against a backdrop of an econ-covery, a real booming recov-Both Treasury Secretary 
NO Avenue Cortright: Abolish
apartments arsenals
renovated 
By SHANNON DEVERNA
By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer News Writer 
·Nuclear weapons can and should be abolished, accordingThe number of opportunities to David Cortright, visiting fac­for students to live off-campus ulty member. 
has increased with the Cortright said that it isthorough renovation of the 
feasible to rid all nations ofNotre Dame Avenue 
nuclear weapons but "will
Apartments. 
require many changes."
Duplex units are being leased 

Cortright said· that an
for $350 a month, and two bed­international treaty, that wouldroom units are going for $400 a outlaw possession of nuclear
month, complete with living 
weapons and aggressive action, room. dining room and air-con­is needed. 
ditioning, according to Chris 
To ensure nations'
Matteo, owner of the complex. 
compliance to the treaty, he
"Notre Dame Avenue Apart­suggested the use of "challenge ments is geared to the student 

inspections," which would
market." said Matteo. "We also allow inspection at "any place, 
have some graduate students 
[and at] any time." This would 
and a couple of professors 
avoid having to ask permission living in the houses." 
before an inspection.
The housing complex, located Cortright also would call forjust south of the campus, un­

Notre Dame Avenue Apartments have a whole new look since their renovation that's taken place in the past 

"societal verification," where itderwent an intensive facelift 
year. Housing opportunities are now available for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students considering living 

would be "not only a citizen's see APTS. I page 4 off-campus next fall. 
right, but a duty and and an obligation'' to disclose any nu­clear activity. This type ofSMC health center answers 
social responsibility will work
• 

best in a democratic setting. "An open society is essential
students' health questions 
for effective societal verification," he said.
By GWEN DUFFIELD since cervical and breast 
Cortright said that this com­
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor cancer do occur, said 
bination of citizen and
Strickland. "An abnormal pap technological monitoring would

Saint Mary's Wellness and smear of cervical cells can 
be the most effective way to Health Center sponsored a pro­mean there are precancerous 
ensure that nuclear weapons gram last night to answer ques­cells present which must be are not being produced. tions from students regarding treated." If nuclear weapons are built, women's health. Strickland noted that students he said, an improved United Dr. Sara Strickler and Dr. Gale could be infected with sexually Nations will take action against English of Saint Mary's Health transmitted diseases without the offending country. Service in Holy Cross Hall were showing any symptoms. Stu­The "UN should have its own 
recruited force," he said, that
fielded questions from the audi­dents who wish to be tested for 
can be used if needed, to
ence by a panel of Saint Mary's AIDS can take a blood test on 
enforce the new treaty.
students on issues including campus without identifying 
Sanctions may also be needed,
cancer, sexually transmitted themselves. 
and should be used in "a carrot
diseases, contraception, "Although women can say and stick approach." This nutrition and choosing a they are not at as high a risk 
would mean that the UN would 
physician. for AIDS, they are actually take action against any country 
Both doctors encouraged coming in contact with that does not participate in the women to have routine everyone their partners have sanctions. examinations and pap smears had sex with so it is necessary "Instruments of mass annihi­from a physician to check for for them to get tested if they lation have no place" in our cancerous and precancerous are sexually active," Strickland country or any other country, 
Cortright said. This will occur
cells. said. 
only when the "government
"Although the incidence of English discussed the need for and people have the will andcancer is low for women in col­immediate medical attention imagination" to work towardslege, it is necessary for them to 
see HEALTH I page 4 the goal to abolish all nuclearcheck themselves just the same weapons. 


page 2 Wednesday, January 27,1993 
The Observer 


himself as, the "leftist equivalent of Rush 
mainstream bookstores, the publisher intends to sell the Limbaugh.~ Despite this, I think many politically 
WORLD book through its religious subsidiary in Christian­
conservative students also enjoyed his class. 
oriented markets. Quayle's book probably will be 
One day in class, he said, "United States 
Aborigine is Australian of the year published in the fall of 1994. 
foreign policy since World War II can be 
• SYDliiEY, Australia -Ten months ago, Mandawuy

summed up i\1 one word." He then proceeded to 
Yunupingu was ordered out of a pub because he's an write the word in large capital letters on the 
aborigine. On Tuesday, he was named Australian of the INDIANA chalkboard: D-E-A-T-H. _ 
Year for his work as lead singer in Australia's most Since World War II. the U.S. is responsible for 
successful aboriginal rock band. Yunupingu called for Tyson's rape victim seeks privacy the death of 2 to 3 million people in military 
racial reconciliation and understanding. The singer • INDIANAPOLIS -The woman conflict: 1 million in Southeast Asia, 1/2 million 
sparked a national controversy in March when he whom boxer Mike Tyson was convicted complained a bar owner in Melbourne refused to serve 
of raping said she feels trapped by thein Indonesia, 200,000 in Guatemala, 100,000 him a drink. Its 1991 hit song "Treaty" called for a treaty publicity surrounding her since the trial
combined in El Salvador, Honduras, and 
between whites and indigenous people -something the one year ago. "I think I was also triedNicaragua. 
and convicted," Desiree Washingtonfirst Europeans and their descendants refused. 
Of course, U.S. political leaders justify every said in a television interview. Tyson was war. The public justification of the Gulf War was 
convicted Feb. 10 of raping the of the moral type. This type of justification 
NATION Coventry, R.I., woman in July 1991, allows people to tolerate the slaughter of 
when she was a contestant in the Miss Black America innocent people. 
Quayle earns a million for memoirs Pageant in Indianapolis. Tyson lawyer Alan Dershowitz Also, the price of oil has miraculously re­
has criticized Washington in recent interviews, claiming mained quite low since the war. 
• WASHINGTON -Former Vice 


she withheld the fact that she had hired an attorney to negotiate rights to her story. Some members of Tyson's 
President Dan Quayle has sold his 
memoirs for at least $1 million. AI struggle to figure out how Bush and all 

jury would have acquitted him had they known that,
seven-figure deal was struck with Dershowitz said. 

involved are able to live with their part in the Harper Collins. The book will begin with Quayle's selection as George Bush's death of over a hundred thousand people. I 
guess Bush must have convinced himself that he running mate in 1988 and end with last 
exhausted all possibilities for peaceful November's election. In addition to
negotiation. 

Even if one believes that, it seems difficult to believe now, two years later, that the same ~ustification applies now to the use of military OF INTEREST force against a crippled Iraq. 
In its weakened state, it seems Iraq may be 
• A Weightwatchers informational meeting will be

quite ready to accept peaceful negotiations. Bill from 12 to 12:30 p.m. today in the Foster Room of • The ND/SMC Ski Club will meet at 7:30p.m. tonightClinton would be smart to realize there do exist 
LaFortune. For information call Human Resources at in room 123 Nieuwland to discuss spring break trip. Call other effective methods of foreign policy besides 
631-5389. Chris Boone at 273-2958. military intervention. Perhaps culturally sensitive diplomacy may 
• Junior Parents Weekend seating for dinner and • Homelessness. as seen in the video, "Down and Out prove more effective than barbaric first world 
brunch is being made final. Three families are seated in America,~ will be discussed for all interested from threats, ultimatums, and attacks when it comes 
per table. To arrange seating, one student must present 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. tonight in the Center for Social Con­to U.S. foreign policy with the Middle East. 
all three IDs at registration between 4 and 9 p.m. today cerns. in the Center for Continuing Education, room 106.

What people call, "the Iraqi syndrome,~ 
• Catholic Worker House is hosting a hospitalityproves dangerous if it narrows leaders' vision 
• Community of Caring will have an organizational luncheon Thursday, Jan. 28 from 11:30 am -1:30 pm atabout the possibilities of a more humane foreign meeting at 5 p.m. tonight at the Center for Social Con­the Center for Social Concerns. 
policy. 
cerns coffeehouse.

In light of the apparent ease with which Bush 
• The Early Childhood Development Center on 
commanded renewed military force in Iraq, I 
• A "Semester Around the World" informational Saint Mary's campus needs volunteers. For information wonder if, on the eve of his last day in power, 
meeting will be at 7 p.m. tonight at the Hesburgh call 284-4693. 

Bush thought, "Hey, what's for supper." 
Library Auditorium. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1880: Thomas Edison received a patent for his electric
Today's Staff 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 26 
incandescent lamp. 


• In 1951: Atomic testing in the Nevada desert began as an
News Sports 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 

Air Force plane dropped a bomb on Frenchman Flats. 
283,127,535

Frank Rivera Jason Kelly 
+.06 to 242.53 


• In 1973: The Vietnam peace accords were signed in Paris,
Kenya Johnson Kevin McGuire 
S&P COMPOSITE 

ending the longest foreign war in U.S. history.
-.06 to 439.95 

• In 1977: The Vatican reaffirmed the Roman Catholic
Production Systems 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

Church's ban on female priests.
Peggy Crooks Harry Zembillas 
+6.75 to 3,298.95 

• In 1984: Michael Jackson suffered second-degree burns
Bryan Nowicki 

to his scalp when a smoke-bomb canister exploded during the 
GOLD 

filming of a Pepsi-Cola TV commercial. 
+$.60 to $328.60/oz

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is. published Monday 
• In 1988: The Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER

Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
approved the nomination of Judge Anthony Kennedy to the
+50.01 to $3.693/oz
rights are reserved. 
U.S. Supreme Court. 


r---­
Wednesday, January 27, 1993 

Lewis discusses growth, perceived power of press 
By ALLISON CONNOLLY cases in the history of the News Writer press, beginning with the Sedition Act in the time of Two-time Pulitzer Prize President Adams, to the libel winner New York Times suits levied against protestors columnist Anthony Lewis of the Vietnam War. The discussed the growth and overriding theme in all the perceived power of the press in cases was the First Amendment American culture last night. to the Constitution, that of free­
Lewis won the two Pulitzer dom of speech and press. Prizes for his articles in his Lewis quoted at length the early career while working out Virginia Resolutions of James of Washington, reporting on the Madison, arguments raised Supreme Court, the Justice De­against the Sedition Act that partment, and other judicial stated that the criticism of subjects. He also became a public figures is crucial to a novelist, writing three books. democracy. Lewis supported His most celebrated book, this idea in saying that, "in our 
BY GERALDINE HAMILTON 

"Gideon's Trumpet," introduced country the people, not the 
News Writer 

thousands of people to the government have absolute workings of constitutional law. sovereignty. 
The F.I.R.E. Home has beenLewis began his lecture with Lewis analyzed the press cov­established to provide a placea detailed historical erage of the Persian Gulf War, 

away from pain, on neutral

background of the fluctuating saying that it was not half as ground, where abused or ne­rights and power of the press adversarial as the presidential glected children can meet withsince colonial times. "It is not campaign coverage was 
their parents and start to

new for people to criticize the reputed to be. 
rebuild the shattered

American press," Lewis stated, In fact, reporters of the war relationships.
saying that the use of the press acted only under rules of the 
Families Involved in a

as a scapegoat for the ills of the Department of Defense and 
Rehabilitative Environment

nation was as common in the their reports were subject to (F.l.R.E.) is an organization that1700's as it is today. official review-"censorship"­works in conjunction with St.
Lewis feels that the in the words of Lewis. 
Joseph's county courts andcontemporary power and "Americans got a laundered 

welfare. It provides a place forprestige of the press as regards view of the war, a squeaky­

parents whose children have

its coverage of the government clean, bloodless one," Lewis 
been taken from them and

was essentially born only said, "the press was feeble and placed in foster care to meettwenty years ago. The event the public loved it that way." 
with the children twice a monththat changed the face of Lewis also discussed the topic in order to re-establish positive journalism was the exposing of of his latest book, "Make No interaction.

the Watergate Scandal by the Law: The Sullivan Case and the The parents come to F.I.R.E.
press. First Amendment." The book 
Home and plan their own

Although the public remem­delves into the sensational 1964 
activities to do with the

bers it as a time when the press case, Sullivan v. New York children. They often just talk tooverthrew a president, Lewis Times, that was intimately 
their children and play with

contends that in reality the linked to civil rights·. Since the toys or do arts and crafts.
press only made the public Sullivan case, Lewis claims that 
"The children are in foster

aware of the punitive measures the Supreme court has been the care or are wards of the court
taken by formal institutions champion of the First 
and F.I.R.E. Home allows su­such as the Supreme Court. Amendment. 

pervised interaction for

After this period, the press He sees free speech and free 
children that have allegedly

became a sort of "adversary of press as "absolutely identical, 
been physically or sexually

the government," Lewis you can't have one without the 
abused," said Frances

asserted. other...the press is there to help 
Anastasio, director of the

Lewis enumerated many of us, so that we can be good citi­F.I.R.E Home. "It is good for the the most important events and zens, so that we can bear the children to spend positive time
burden of sovereignty." 

• 




WIJEAJL 
DON'T FORGET, IF YOU SIGNED UP FOR THE MISS-A­MEAL, YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO EAT IN THE NOTRE DAME DINING HALLS TONIGHT, WEDNESDAY JANUARY 27. 
THE COST OF THESE MEALS IS GRACIOUSLY BEING DONATED TO THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS BY UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES. THIS IS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS THAT IS BEING HELD FRIDAY JANUARY 29 FROM 8:00pm TO 12:00am 
PLEASE COME OUT AND SUPPORT THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS. WE WILL BE ASKING FOR A ONE DOLLAR DONATION AT THE DOOR. ALL PROCEEDS GO 
DIRECTLY TO THE SPECIAL OLYMPICS. 

c • , Aerobics & Tanning 
~ Variety of Classes 
FLEX '1s~ starting 2/11 lJ COUNTRY LINE DANCE 
415 E. McKinley Mishawaka 
255--1755 
Newly Remodeled Notre Dame Apartments Now Renting for August 1993 
Models Open 
Mon.~Fri. 3~6p.m. Saturda~ 1~6p.m. 
Stop by and see the changes we have made! 
Great Rental Rates For More Information Call: 
MATTEO ENTERPRISES 
232~8256 
with their parents to help them 
deal with the hurt more 
effectively later in life." 
Anastasio, a Notre Dame alumnus, is interested in starting a club with the Notre Dame /Saint Mary's community to help with the operating of the 
F.I.R.E. Home. 
"I want to see who is interested and what experience they want to be involved in," said Anastasio. Hands-on experience, marketing, public relations and assistance in restoring an old home for 
F.I.R.E. 
use are some of the activities in which students can become involved. 

The National Exchange Club, which has chapters all over the nation has teamed up with the 

F.I.R.E. 
Home in South Bend in order start this club on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campuses. 


The major goals of this union between the two organizations is to assist in fund raising efforts and to raise awareness about child abuse. 
"I want the club to become a tradition like The Logan Center," said Anastasio. 
The F.I.R.E. Home would be a positive experience for students that are interested in non-profit organizations and the social services. 
"As an alum I know the dedi­cation, the sense of community, the Christian attitude and the quality of folks at Notre Dame and I want the students and the faculty to have the chance to become involved," said Anastasio. 
Anastasio stresses that sum­mer internships at the ·F.I.R.E. Home are also available along with the opportunities to volun­teer throughout the school year. 
At the present time there are three Saint Mary's students and one Notre Dame graduate stu­dent interning at the F.I.R.E. Home. The intern supervises and facilitates the meeting be­tween the parents and the child. 
"Working at the F.I.R.E. Home is fulfilling," said Erin Harding a F.I.R.E. Home intern. "I learned about dysfunction families, what the parent/child relationship is about and it has been my outlet to do service in the community." 
"I want to raise awareness on the Notre_ Dame/ Saint Mary's campuses about non-profit or­ganizations and that alumni are helping the community and how they might help the commu­nity," said Anastasio. 
There will be an organizational meeting for the club at The Center for Social Concerns tonight at 6:45. 

Wednesday, Ja, 1uary 27, 1993
page 4 The Observer 
Student programming assistants to be hired 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
The Office of Student Activiti11s will be hiring three students at thP end of March for the paid positions of programming assistants for 1993-1994. according to Joe Cassidy, director of student activities. 
The student programming as­sistants will serve as part-time members of the Student Activi­ties office and help coordinate and implement programs spon­sored by the Office of Student Activities, he said. 
Stimulus 
continued from page 1 
astounding $650 billion by 2003 if nothing is done. 
Reischauer said that a $20 billion stimulus package would be too small to have much eco­nomic impact, but he said that such a proposal "might be the price one had to pay to get political acceptance of a long­
"Students will essentially act as a sounding board for new ideas to see if they will be able to fly or not on campus," he said. Student Activities will look for strong candidates with leadership skills, creativity and the desire to cooperate within small groups to implement new programs, he added. 
Applications are available in the Student Activities office in room 315 of LaFortune Student Center and will be due by March 5; interviews will be conducted March 15-19, Cassidy said. 
In other business: 
•Students should begin saving 
run deficit-reduction package." 
While not revealing details on the make~up of the stimulus package, the administration in the past has talked about accel­erating spending on highway projects and offering businesses a limited investment tax credit that would reimburse them for a portion of new spending made on equipment. 
their unwanted furniture and clothes for a charity rummage sale at the end of the school year, said Meg Brennan, organizer and ND graduate student. The sale will be on May 8, at Stepan Center and will benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless, she said. 
•"Christmas in April" will be April 17 and participants will work in the southeast side of South Bend, said coordinator Phil Johnson. "Our goal is to provide safer, warmer housing for the local people," he said. Registration will be Feb. 16-18 in the Library Concourse. 
On the deficit-cutting pro­posal, Stephanopoulos contin­ued to insist that everything was still being considered, in­cluding new taxes on energy. 
That proposal has drawn widespread attacks from liberal Democrats who contend it would hit the poor the hardest and from conservative Republi­cans who argue it would dampen economic growth. 
Parisi discusses dream phenomena and analysis 
By GRETCHEN JOHNSON AND JAYNE GILLIG News Writers 
Reoccurring dreams and their themes, dreams that come true, dejavu and death in dreams were among the dream phenomena addressed by Professor Thomas Parisi, chair of the Psychology Department of Saint Mary's. 
During the discussion last night, one student gave a si~ tuation where she had dreamt of the birth of her friend's baby and awoke at 9:30 a.m. 
to fmd the dream prominent in her mind. Several days later the student discovered that her friend had delivered the child at 9:47 a.m. on the morning she had the dream. 
According to Parisi, a pos­sible explanation for the dream could be the change in behavior influenced through low electrical fields. 
The event "was planned be­cause it is an interesting topic for everyone and because everyone has dreams," said Jonna Kwiatkowski, president of the Saint Mary's Psychology Club. 
Journal keeping could help one explore their dreamworld, he said. This can include simply writing down recollections about a dream and its plot at the time of awakening. Referring to this journal can help in the realiza­tion of what is occurring unconsciously. 
Health 
continued from page 1 
for those students who are sexually assaulted to check for exposure to STD's and prevention against rape. 
"There is safety in numbers because it decreases the chances of a person being caught alone in a dangerous situation," said English. 
Methods of contraception like birth control and Norplant were discussed as well as their side effects. 
English encouraged using both birth control and condoms while sexually active to reduce the chances of pregnancy and exposure to STD's. 
She also stated that for those students who want to lose weight, the total amount of calories a person takes in is more important than when a person eats and exercises. 
"It is not good to just eat one meal a day, but instead a person should evenly spread out their caloric intake in three or four decent meals a day," said English. 
Students were advised to choose a physician who they could trust to oversee their gen­eral health. 
"When choosing a doctor, look at his or personality and see if that person is someone who will treat you as a person," said Strickland. 
English advised students not to depend on receiving all their care from the hospital's emer­pressure," said English. gency room because they will "Seniors are often interested not have any continuity in their in looking for a physidan once medical care. they begin living on their own," 
"Seeing a gynecologist for she said, "so it's important to your sexual health will also look into the medical system help you touch base with a and look for someone to help health professional who can direct your physical and check things important to your emotional care." physical health like your blood 
Finance 
Apts. 
continued from page 1 
during the past year, said Mat­teo. "We have completely reno­vated every unit, although sev­eral are still in the process of being worked on." 
Nearly all of the units have been completely redone and the rest will be finishnd within sixty to ninety days. "We just ran out of good weather," explained Mattno. 
Extensive work went into restoring the apartments, Mat­teo continw1d. 
"Every unit was painted inside and out, cabinets and countertops were installed, 
Alumni Awareness Week 
SCAVENGER HUNT CLUE: 
The St. Mary's Lake over-looks this spot-where the prize is hidden with much thought. 
Don't forget to pick up your extra clue in the Alumni Association office R.M. 201 Ad. Min. 
GOOD LUCK 
The Alumni Fact For The Day... As a gift to the University during its Sesquicentennial Year, Alumni were asked to contribute community service time, in addition to money, to the University. 108 local ND Alumni Clubs participated in Humanitarian Week in April 1992 
plumbing fixtures were redone and reconditioned, as was all the electrical wiring. The area around the complex has been relandscaped, resodded, with new trees planted," he said. 
Although the apartments were troubled by crime in the past, Matteo insists that crime is no longer a concern at all. 
"Since this summer, we've had no complaints from tenants" about crime, Matteo said. 
Measures have been taken to improve the security of the apartments and the surrounding area. The complex has upgraded all the site lighting and installed security fences around the newly repaved and expanded parking lots, he said. 
In addition to the apartments, Matteo renovated a commercial building next to the property, and has leased it to the city of South Bend. He said that the city intends to place several city services there, along with a police officer. 
Matteo is optimistic about the future of Notre Dame Avenue Apartments. "We're getting more and more calls everyday," he said. "People are seeing the change." 
Faculty/Student Mixer 
Wednesday, January 27 7:00-8:30p.m. Blue Room NDH 
"I think it's a major mistake to ask American families to sacrifice before you've asked government to sacrifice," Rep. Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., told re­porters after a White House meeting with Clinton on Tues­day. "I think as of today they'd have a pretty hard time getting an energy tax through Congress." 
*Information Meeting 
APPLICATION DEADLINE February 12 
$1400.00 SCHOLARSHIP. (ND students only) 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer 

-~ ~--~------~-----~----~­
Wednesday, January 27, 1993 
France deploys eight-ship task force to Adriatic Sea 
PARIS (AP) -France said to­day it will send a naval task force led by one of its two aircraft carriers into the Adriatic Sea for possible intervention in the former Yugoslav republics. 
Warplanes and combat heli­copters aboard the carrier Clemenceau could perform mis­sions ranging from enforcing a U.N.-declared "no-fly zone" over Bosnia-Herzegovina to protecting French peacekeepers in Croatia and Bosnia. Two French soldiers were killed Monday in Croatia. 
Navy officials said the eight­ship task force was likely to sail from the Mediterranean port of Toulon on Thursday and could be in the Adriatic by the week­end. 
The task force will include two frigates with special anti­aircraft capabilities, two frigates designed for anti­submarine warfare, two supply ships and a transport ship. 
Officials said the Clemenceau and the transport ship, the Foudre, would carry a total of 30 warplanes and about 15 helicopters. 
Defense Minister Pierre Joxe said the deployment . was or.dered by President Francois Mitterrand and would provide France with "options which we haven't had up till now." 
The Foreign Ministry spokesman, Daniel Bernard, said the task force was intended in part to ensure security of French peacekeepers. He said the ships would be under French command, but would carry out operations within the framework of U.N. Security Council. 
The 32,780-ton Clemenceau, which normally has a crew of 2,339, entered service in 1961. Its last operational mission was during the Persian Gulf War. 
France has expressed support for using air power to enforce the U.N. Security Council ban on military flights over Bosnia. Serb forces have been accused of violating the ban. 
France has several thousand soldiers serving in the U.N. peacekeeping force in Bosnia and Croatia, both wracked by wars since they declared inde­pendence from Yugoslavia. 
Saint Mary's 
Student Body Election 
DEBATES 
Clinton. Pickering, currently ambas­sador to India, will work 
Thursday, January 28 7 p.m. 
Haggar Parlor 
Students are encouraged to meet the candidates 
RESERVE OFFICERS' 

Thomas Pickering, once a United States ambassador to the United Nations during the Persian Gulf War under Bush's administration, was named ambassador to Russia by President Clinton. 
Pickering named ambassador to Russia 
WASHINGTON (AP) Thomas Pickering, a career diplomat who served as Presi­dent Bush's U.N. ambassador during the Persian Gulf War, was named ambassador to Russia by President Clinton on Tuesday. 
Pickering, 62, is the first to have held Cabinet-level rank in a previous Republican administration to get a high­profile assignment under 
closely with Strobe Talbott, whom Clinton earlier named as coordinator of U.S. aid to the former Soviet republics, said White House communications director George Stephanopoulos. 
The Moscow post has been vacant since last fall when Bush appointee Robert 
TRAINING CORPS 
\ 

A college education takes $$$. Don't send out an SOS. U 2 can get the $$$ you need with a merit­based Army ROTC Scholar­ship. l,OOO's of scholarships are awarded every year to 

ARMYROTC 
THE SMARTEST COUF.a£ COURSE YOU CAN TUE. 
Contact Captain Brian Selling (631-6265) for more information 
Strauss, a former U.S. trade representative and chairman of the Democratic National Committee, resigned. 
Pickering goes to Moscow at a time of great economic and political uncertainty there. "There's no more important challenge than assisting our Russian friends as they attempt to create democratic institutions and a free market system," Stephanopoulos said. 
Strauss called the nomination a splendid appointment" and said he planned to send a message to Russian President Boris Yeltsin saying the career diplomat was the right man for the job. ''I'm certain that, as he gets to know Tom Pickering as the rest of us have, that he will come to rely on him and his judgement," Strauss said in an interview. 
The nomination comes on the same day that the Senate confirmed Clinton's choice for 
U.N. ambassador, Georgetown University international affairs professor Madeleine Albright. 
A member of the foreign service since 1959, Pickering has had high-level jobs in the Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan and Bush administrations. He has been ambassador to Israel, Jordan, El Salvador and Nigeria. 
Pickering is one of only four career diplomats in the State Department's foreign service to hold the rank of career ambassador -the diplomatic equivalent of a five-star general. 
Stephanopoulos said the ap­pointment was in line with the intention of both the president and Secretary of State Warren Christopher. 

Last Call! Study Abroad Last Call! 
. 
Saint Mary's Semester Around the World Open to all ND/SMC Students 16 Semester Credits (3 sociology, 3 history, 3 economics, 3 religion, 4 arts) applicable towards college core, appropriate majors or as electives at NO or SMC. Classes in Madras, India. Extensive Travel: Japan, China, HongKong, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, India, Nepal. Optional travel (air ticket included) in many cities of Eastern/Western Europe. Cost: Regular ND/SMC tuition, room and board for a semester, plus a reasonable surcharge. For Information/ Application: Dr. C. Pullapilly, Madeleva 336, Saint Mary's Campus phones: 284A468/4474(office) 272~0889(home) INFORMATION MEETING TONIGHT 7:00p.m. Hesburgh Auditorium 
Wednesday, January 27, 1993
The Observer 
page 6 
Havel elected first president of new Czech Republic 

PRAGUE. Czech Republic (AP) -Vaclav Havel, who helped Czechoslovakia break free of Communism but as president couldn't stop it from splitting in two, was elected president of the new Czech Republic on Tuesday. 
A playwright who led the 1989 "Velvet Revolution," Havel was Czechoslovakia's tlrst post-Communist president and remains the best-known Czech politician at home and abroad. 
Even many of his opponents said they could imagine no one else as the new republic's first president. 
He easily defeated his Oll:lY two opponents, winning 109 vott)S in the 200-memher Parliament as the nominee of the four-party governing coalition of Premier Vaclav Klaus. Marie Stiborova of the Communist Party received 49 votes, and Miroslav Sladek of the extreme-right Republicans had onlY'14. 
He will be inaugurated next Tuesday for a five-year term. 
"I thank the Parliament for 
the confidence it has ex­
pressed in me by electing me 
the tlrst president of the Czech 
Republic," Havel, 56, said after 
the vote. 
Later, he told reporters that 
Vaclay Havel 
he was "more experienced and wiser" than when he first served. 
te•gislators in Slovakia, Czechoslovakia's other suc­cessor state, failed to elect their first president Tuesday when none of four candidates could muster the necessary three-fifths majority required by their new constitution. Another vote was scheduled Wednesday. 
Both successor states have opted for parliamentary democracies with relatively weak presidencies. Most of the executive powers rest with their premiers. 
As Czech president, Havel will be able to negotiate in­ternational treaties and ex* 
Attention Freshmen 
JPW ESCAPE TO 
CHICAGO 
20-2\ 
febtua!~ ol}fi There is a limited amount of ~SjJO space still available. Ticket<; sold only through Friday. 
Si)?n up ASAP at the Student Government office on the second floor ofLafortune. 

Tuesday: Everything 
1/2 OFF 
50% off! 
PRICE NIGHT 
Wednesda1_: STUDENT NIGHT $3 WI STUDENT J.D. Yo? know what the party is all about. 
Brmg us a penny if you dare! 
Thursday_:
Bladder Buster Night 
THIS ONE IS A RIOT!! 
Frida1 & Saturday: The W1ld Weekend continues. WAITRESS WANTED 
1150 MISHAWAKA AVE. 288-0285 
TADIUM JACC 
0 (X) 
Mlsha· 
E 
wake 
d 
Ave.'\., 
d 
exit -':11 
y Mishawaka Ave. 
ercise limite(); veto power over legislation. He also will .be commander::in~chief of the military. ;,];~~:: <m;t&t 
Havel's ele,etion was delayed for hours while a few extreme right~wing ,. parliamenta~y deputies took advantage of the televised debate to accuse Havel'of, among oth,erthings, having ties to the former Communist secret police. 
Havel becomes preSident of a state he hoped would never have to exist. 
Despite his efforts, the Czec;h and Slovak republics split on Jan. 1 after failing to reconcile deep differences over economic reforms, ;}ih .mx 
Politicians in the larger Czech RepubUc, with 10 mil* lion people. favored swift conversion to a free*market system. But such reforms hit hard in Slovakia. thlil old fed­eration's poorer east~rn third, which is saddled with in­efficient Communist•era indus* tries. Unemployment among its 5 million people has topped 12 percent durillg the past three 
years.. ··=· · · ··~,:~==· ·':·:·~~: 
In Slovakia's 150~seat leg~ islature, Roman Kovac. the nominee of Premier Vladimir Meciar's governing Movement for a Democratic Slovakia. won 69 votes in 'I'q~~day'sballot.,v 
Dunes Hotel closes for good 
LAS VEGAS (AP)-No dice rolled Tuesday at the Dunes Hotel and no one fed slot machines. The once-elegant playground of mobsters and high-rollers has thrown in its cards after 38 years as a landmark on the Strip. 
It's to be replaced with a resort built around an artificial lake, the latest move in this desert city's drive to shift gears from a high roller haven to a family resort. 
The Dunes closed its doors at midnight Monday and gaming tables and slot machines were carted away. More than 1,000 employees danced to a calypso band and drank champagne before streaming outside to watch as the giant marquee went dark. 
The closing of the Dunes put 1,400 people out of work. 
"We've raised each others' children," said Denise Watson, a cashier for 14 years. "We've buried each others' parents. We've lived each others' lives. That's what we'll miss. The unity part." 
New owner Steve Wynn is talking with movie studios that might be interested in paying for the right to dynamite the casino's 20-story twin towers for some future film. 
Wynn, chairman of Mirage 
Resorts Inc., plans to build a 
$400 million, 3,000-room 
resort around a 14-acre lake on 
the site. The as-yet-unnamed 
resort is scheduled to open in 
1996. 
JUNIOR PREMEDS 
TO: All Juniors Planning to Apply to Health Professional Schools 
Date: Time: Place: 
FIRST MEETING 
Wednesday, January 27, 1993 . 7:00PM 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Purpose: To discuss preliminary appli­cation procedures for the 1993-94 year. 
PLEASE MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO ATIEND. 
Ill 
::z: 
..... 
Las Vegas, faced with the ex­pansion of gaming across the country, is shifting its focus to the family market. 
In addition to competition from Atlantic City, N.J., several states have legalized riverboat gaming, old mining towns in the West have opened limited gambling and casinos have been started on Indian reservations across the country. 
Three gaming companies are spending $1.8 billion on three Las Vegas resorts that will in­clude 11,900 rooms, a major movie theme park and a water theme attraction. 
While employees were nostal­gic about the Dunes, Wynn felt differently. 
"This thing about melancholy · in its passing is sorta strange," Wynn said. "No one felt that while it was lying there, termi­nally ill. It's been lying there on life support systems for many years." 
During its glory days in the 1950s and '60s, the Dunes catered to the famous and infa­mous. 
"It was the jewel of the Strip," said pit boss Earl Brookner, 56, who has spent half his life at the Dunes. "Celebrities of the highest magnitude were patrons here." 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ..on,SfD9 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH "O"'s 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH •.,.,,s Bf 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT "a"'Sf29 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS "a"'SfJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ••omSf2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE "amSf46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 


TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIFS APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 
Wednesday, January 27, 1993 The Observer page 7 
Mrs. Clinton pursues Capitol Hill support ursue 
NEW YORK (AP) -Hillary Rodham Clinton got a quick start Tuesday on her job heading her husband's health care task force, pursuing support on Capitol Hill within hours of the appointment and seeking advice from award­winning health care experts. 
She also wowed New York school kids, one of whom de­clared she was pretty "and I think she's powerful." 
Mrs. Clinton picked up a com­munity servic~ award on her first trip outside Washington as first lady, and used the occasion to question fellow winners whose projects involve health care for children. 
The Lewis Hine Award was for her service to children over the years. 
President Clinton appointed his wife, .a former corporate lawyer. to lead the task force on one of the most important issues of his presidency, saying Monday that she was "a first lady of many talents." 
Asked what she planned to do in her new role, Mrs. Clinton said Tuesday. "Do what my hus­band asks me to do." 
Prodded for specifics, she said her job will be "to perform the function that he outlined yester­day (and) to come up with -by working and coordinating with a lot of people -his health care proposal that he will present to Congress in May." 
Although reluctant to talk publicly about her new role, officials said Mrs. Clinton called several congressmen in the first 24 hours on the job. The conversations were general, part of an initial effort "to reach out to people," said an official familiar with the situation. 
The official believed some of the calls were made from New York. Sen. Donald Riegle, D­Mich., said he got a phone call from Mrs. Clinton late Monday. 
While her husband was 


..... 

Come and solve the Mystery January 27, 1993 8:00pm LaFortune Ballroom 
1st prize $1 00
J 
100%·audience participation 


,i.,.,__'tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information desk for $ 
----------~.,.,..---~­
~ sponsored by Student Activities
-------~ 
Hillary Clinton 
governor of Arkansas, Mrs. Clinton chaired an Education Standards Committee that played a leading role in pushing through school reforms. She also chaired a state panel on rural health problems and was an active board member of the Arkansas Children's Hospital. 
For her first trip since the in­auguration, Mrs. Clinton chose to forgo the usual government jet generally used by first ladies and took a commercial flight to New York. 
"She just wanted to fly com­mercial," said her spokeswoman, Lisa Caputo. 
Her first stop was at Alexander Humboldt School ­also known as P.S. 115 -in a gritty immigrant neighborhood in Upper Manhattan. Mrs. Clinton spent about 30 minutes helping bank executive Maria Alvarez ,utor fourth-and fifth­grade students. 
Alvarez, a vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank, is a member of "New York Cares," a volunteer group. She also was a Lewis Hine Award winner. 
Mrs. Clinton said she met in­formally with four Hine health care winners to "learn more about the programs, why they've been singled out, get their advice about what they think will work." 
Caputo said the one-hour con­versation got very specific, with talk about troublesome regula­tions and innovative policies. "It put a lense on some of the most fundamental problems that exist in the way health care is funded through their experiences as physicians and leaders" in the health care field, Caputo said. 

She declined to release the names of Mrs. Clinton's guests, but Hines winners with health care backgrounds are Colleen Lunsford Bevis of Tampa, Fla; Nan Songer of Liverpool, N.Y.; Dr. Geri Ann Brooks of Petaluma, Calif.; and Dr. Bar­bara Carol Staggers of Castro Valley, Calif. 
At the 77-year-old elementary school, Mrs. Clinton offered ad­vice to the students, holding their hands, patting them on their shoulders and recalling her own problems with multiplication tables. 
"My father would get me up in the morning and say, 'All right, we're going to do multiplication before breakfast,"' she told the students. She conceded that the math "was hard for me." 
She stopped for a while and helped Chevon Perry, 12, with a four-digit math problem. Bend­ing deeply at the waist, Mrs. Clinton braced her right elbow against the tiny table and rested her chin in her right hand as Chevon carefully turned 5 and 2 into 7. 
"Good girl," Mrs. Clinton gushed. 
She led the class in a game of bingo that involved multiplication problems. The boy who won got two gold stickers -one on each side of his forehead -and a kiss from the first lady, smack in between the stickers. 
Hundreds of students then crowded in the courtyard to hear Mrs. Clinton urge them to "work to l.~arn as much as you can learn. 
.N. 

U.N. officials say no postat the agency is assigned to a particular nation, either by tradition or automatically. But the five permanent members of theU.N. Security Council ­the United States, Russia, China, France and Britain __. have long had a informal understanding that each should eontrol one of th~ 
briefirul Tuesd~y. U.N~ no•r~gmA. Joe. Sills said C1:trliln1cstt·atJtve reforms ''Will "'Al'·t>~inlv continue after Tl~,An~~••r~At~oPvThornburgh 
Happy 19th Birthday 
Rob! 

With love 
from Mom, Dad, and Mary 
ND-SMC 
Students 
20th Annual Summer Program 
LONDON  ROME  
May 19 ~June 18  June 13 ~July 12  
ravel in Ireland,  Travel in France,  
Scotland, and France  Germany, and  
Switzerland  

Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING February 15 
6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284~4460 or 272~ 3 726 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, January 27, 1993 
Sears closes stores, halts 'big book' 
CHICAGO (API -It took an outsider to do what many believe had to be done at Sears, Roebuck and Co. -kiJJ the Sears catalog. 
For generations, the Sears "big book" had a place next to the Bible in many Ameri­can homes. But its all­things-to-all-people ap­proach has become a money-loser. Sears has de­cided the spring catalog will be the last in 97 years. 
In a drive to halt a decade-long decline in its retail business, Sears also announced Monday that it will eliminate about 50,000 jobs by early 1994 and close 113 stores. Some 2.000 c:atalog stores also will close. 
Arthur Martinez, a former Saks Fifth Avenue exeeutive hired by Sears in August to revitalize its retailing unit, made the tough choice to get rid of the catalog. 
"I don't think that decision could have been made by a Sears person." said analyst Philip Abbenhaus of A.G. Edwards In St. Louis. 
Although it had annual revenue of $3.3 billion, Sears' U.S. catalog business had after-tax losses of more than $135 million in each of the past thrt~e years. Martinez said. 
"A lot of older people like the catalog rather than go fight the crowds. sure," said Kenneth Neibarger, 72, who was shopping at a soon-to­close catalog store in Tus­cola. Ill. "But it's going to be a thing of the past. We've got to change with change, I guess." 
Many retail analysts have long advocated shedding the catalog business, but Sears Chairman Edward Brennan resisted when he doubled as chief of the merchandise group from 1990 to 1992. 
"Brennan felt he had to bring someone in from the outside to effect such changes," said analyst Thomas Tashjian of First Manhattan Co. in New York. "Martinez historicaJly has been successful at such mo¥es and is a smart man who probably wouldn't have accepted the job without the ability to walk in with a hatchet." 
Sears said it would cut 
16.000 full-time jobs and 
34.000 part-tinie jobs within the merchandise group, which runs the company's 859 American stores, its catalog business and Sears' credit operations. The unit employs nearly 350,000 of Sears' 435,000 workers. 
The nation's third-largest retailer said the cuts would save it an estimated $300 million a year. 
The first edition of the catalog came out in 1888, two years after the company began, but featured only jewelry and watches. The first general merchandise catalog came 10 years later. 
For much of its early his­tory, the catalog had a clear mission to deliver mer­chandis~ to millions of mainly rural Americans liv­ing far away from stores. Its role lessened as retailers started springing up all over the country. 
"The strategy of being all things to all people has he­come obsolete,'' said Denise Keane·GUlette. vice presi· dent of marketing at Ham­macher Schlemmer & Co. of Chicago, which sells elec­tronic toys and other gad­gets by catalog. • 
The elimination of the Sears catalog will lead to the closing of most Sears catalog stores -outlets that accept orders and are generally situated in small towns. There are more than 2,000 catalog stores, with about 30 under Sears' ownership and the rest independently owned. 
Campus attempts to cope with December shootings 
GHEAT BAHHINGTON, Mass. (AP) -The students of Simon's Hock College of Bard opened a new semester Tuesday wonder­ing if their mountain paradise was forever lost in the crackle of gunfire and splatter of blood. 
College administrators were handing out security whistles to all 300 students in the wake of a Dec. 14 rampage that left a professor and student dead and wounded four. A sophomore has been charged in the shootings. 
"Simon's Rock has always been seen ... as a safe haven, that you could keep your doors unlocked," said Candy Ammer, 18, a junior from Apollo, Pa. "I definitely lock my doors now. I try not to walk around at night by myself." 
Authorities say Wayne Lo, 18, of Billings, Mont., stalked across campus without warning, firing a semiautomatic rifle apparently at random. When the 20-minute spree ended, he ordered a student to call police and surrendered, investigators said. He has pleaded innocent to murder charges and remains jailed without bail. 
Coping has been particularly difficult for the students and employees at this pastoral, 275­acre campus in the Berkshires. 
Virtually everyone on campus knew the suspect and victims. Students are younger here than on other eampuses beeause Si­mon's Rock is an alternative school that provides a college education to gifted, high school­age teen-agers. 
Students periodically recalled the horror in the sanitized lan­guage of survivors: "the event." "the tragedy," "the deceased." 
An ad hoc memorial of flowers and candles remained on the front stairs of the library, where Galen Gibson, 18, a sophomore from Gloucester, was killed. Nacunan Saez, 37, a Spanish teacher from Argentina, was killed in his car. 
Students said they were feeling everything from anger to guilt that they could not stop the bloodshed. Others said they felt a heightened sense of community from sharing the same awful ordeal. 
"When a tragedy happens, you realize that everybody counts," said Kyra Greene, a 17-year-old sophomore from Paducah, Ky. "And when they're gone, you notice." 
College offieials, who closed the school for semester break five days early immediately after the shooting, said it had prompted no one to drop out. 
Agent disguised in ape suit captures smuggler 
MIAMI (AP)-A federal agent 
disguised in a gorilla suit and 
placed in a cage helped nab 
Mexican zoo officials 
attempting to smuggle primates 
to their homeland, a prosecutor 
said Tuesday. 
The Mexicans -ineluding 
Vietor Bernal. 57, director of 
zoos and parks for the interior 
state of Mexico -were shown 
real gorillas, orangutans and 
chimpanzees at Miami-area 
zoos, authorities said. 
They were told tho animals 
eould be smuggled to Mexico, 
and would be delivered 
Monday, authoritins said. 
"But it's risky and dangerous 
to use a real animal, so we had 
to use a willing substitute -an 
agent in a gorilla outfit," Assis­
tant U.S. Attorney Dan Gelber 
said. 
The agent was placed in a cage at the Opa-loeka airport, supposedly to be flown to the .Toluca zoo in Mexico. Bernal and two Mexican middlemen took delivery of him, authorities 
said. 
Gelber refused to diseuss how 
the Mexicans were fooled at the 
airport, except to say, the arrest 
came "very soon after they saw 
the agent in a gorilla suit." 
Miami MetroZoo curator Hon 
Magill, who supplied the cage 
for the phony gorilla ­
eomplete with "Live Animal" 
stamped on the sidn -said he 
never believed the suspects 
would fall for the $92,500 sting. 
"It's like a movie. I'm really surprised anyone could be that gullible," he said. "But they fell for it. It just goes to show money doesn't equate with intelligence." 
The ease began Jan. 6 when one of the Mexican middleman, Eduardo Berges, 31, called a Miami primate dealer, who tipped authorities, according to Fish and Wildlife agent Jorge Picon. 
Berges said the gorilla at the Toluca zoo had died, but Mexican government officials had not publicized the death. 
The state governor wanted a replacement quickly, the agent said. Berges said he would also be interested in orangutans, even when told trafficking in the animals was illegal, according to investigators. 
"We agreed to provide them with the animals with false per­mits," Gelber said. "It was very clear that it's illegal to send these animals without proper documents and permits." 
Despite the illegality, Berges told the undercover agent the purchase "had been approved by the governor of the state of Mexico, Mexico," according to an affidavit filed in federal court. 
The agent then brought the state zoo director to Miami. Picon convinced Bernal that the primates were being kept at the local zoo because employees ' there had been bribed, and took him to MetroZoo after hours to see the animals. 
Bernal returned to Mexico, and, according to Berges, dis­cussed the matter with the gov­ernor of the state of Mexico, which is adjacent to Mexico City. 
"The governor of Mexico had instructed him to return to Mexico to bribe additional Customs officials at the airport in Toluca," said Picon's affidavit. 
The office of Gov. Ignacio Pichardo Pagaza did not imme­diately return a message' from The Associated Press. 
On Jan. 22, Bernal's agency transferred $92,500 to the dealer's account, authorities said. 
Bernal, Berges and Berges' partner, Jose Luis Alcerreca, 45, were arrested after the "gorilla" was delivered at Opa­Locka. Two women who accompanied them to the United States were arrested at a hotel. 
All were charged with trafficking in primates in violation of federal laws protecting endangered species. 
Bernal was ordered held Tuesday on $250,000 bail; bail was set at $100,000 to $200,000 for the others. 
Calling all Cheerleader wanna-Be's 
Informal Meeting February grh 7:30p.m. Football Auditorium 
and Lucky Leprechauns 
.~/~??The Castle & Co. Is Your 
New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 

• 
New Wolf Tann1ng Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurious. Clean Pnvate Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling W1th Every Lounge. 


~~d~3 ~~~o!\~e1A 81 

Closed Monday Plenty of parking ­
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Account Executives work with clients on a daily basis and should possess good communication skills, a friendly personality and a strong work ethic. 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal state­menfbf intent or a resume toMike Hobbs by 5 p.m. Friday, January 29. Contact Mike Hobbs at 1-8840 for more information. 
Environment 
Wednesday,January 27, 1993 
Stephen Zavestoski 
Environment 
Editor 

Earth vs. dollar­A no-win contest 
It is a sorry state of affairs when we find ourselves at the mercy of the dollar. But that is precisely where we find ourselves as we begin the last lap of the twentieth century. 
In our magazines and newspapers and on television, we dedicate more inches and more air time to the money making stories-business or automobiles, for instance. 
If you have failed to stop and wonder why major newspapers devote an entire section to the automobile or to home buying once a week, and burry the stories that touch on the issues that are affecting us all-like the environment-you have been doing yourself a disservice. 
Even worse, too often the media can not even get at the real issues because of the dollar wielding corporations and institutions that can cover up or jockey around the stickiest of situations-from the spraying of toxic chemicals to kill dandelions, to the waste treatment practices of a major chemical manufacturer. 
Many people argue that eventually the same economic forces that have compelled us to plunder our natural resources will force us to use them more wisely. But I argue that, should there ever come a time when a corporation decides it is in its best interest to limit its pollution, that time will come too late to prevent the impending doom we have so ignorantly wrought upon ourselves. 
Perhaps worst of all is that the people who are working to save us from this self­destruction-environmental activists-are forced to work within the very system that has run out of control. Every environmental group that lobbies for government support or receives monetary donations from supporters is trying to reform the system by playing within it. They, just like the rest of us, are at the mercy of the dollar. 
It seems we have created a machine that has actually overtaken us. We do not know how to stop it should we ever realize we must. 
Even if we could regain our control over this machine, it would inevitably run out of control again. 
In the end, our only hope is to completely dismantle the machine, dismantling ourselves in the process, as well as our way of thinking. And when we have completely redefined our relationship to the earth, we will realize what we live in is not a machine at all, but a living, evolving organism with which we must maintain a peaceful, caring relationship. 

MOSCOW-Russia agreed in nrlnr.i1r'ilAtn 

compensate Ukraine for giving up nu.i2I~llf1'1 ®!i+i 
weapons. <\ major step toward 

former Soviet nuclear arsenal. 
commonwealth military chief said 
Ukraine previously won a protni$e 
Russia to protect its neighbor 
attack. 
Tanker towed to avoid pollution 
SINGAPORE (AP) -The burning Danish supertanker Maersk Navigator was being towed today to prevent leaking oil from polluting an Indian island. · 
A 30-mile-long slick had drifted to within 10 miles of the Indian island of Great Nicobar, said a statement from the ship's owner, Copenhagen­based A.P. Moller Co. 
Officials had said they saw little threat of coastal pollution because the tanker was carrying light crude oil, which dissipates relatively quickly. But light winds have made the slick larger and more tenacious than expected. 
The Maersk Navigator was carrying 78 million gallons of oil when it collided Thursday with. an unladen South Korean tanker near the northern· entrance to the Malacca Strait between the Malay Peninsula and the Indonesian island of Sumatra. 
No estimate has yet been offered on how much oil has leaked. But the spill represents yet another in the recent trend of oil spilling. 
Salvage tugs today planned to tow the Maersk Navigator to a position 65 miles south of Great Nicobar island and about 80 miles west of the northern tip of Sumatra. 
The burning tanker is to be held there until flames near its ruptured No. 4 tank on the port side are doused. The Moller statement said the company hoped the fire would be extinguished in two days. 
Water cannon on the salvage tugs were spraying the tanker's hull to cool it and contain the fire until it can be blanketed with foam. 
The cause of the collision has not been determined. There were no injuries in the accident and the fire that erupted on the Korean tanker Sanko Honour was quickly doused. 
The Malacca Strait is one of the world's busiest waterways. Malaysia's National Maritime Council says about 200 large merchant ships and 1,800 smaller vessels, including fishing craft, use the straits each day. 
The accident prompted officials in Malaysia and Indonesia to call for tougher restrictions on supertankers using the waterway. 
Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad wants to impose a toll to pay for better navigational aids and cleaning up spilled oil. 
Indonesian Environment Minister Emil Salim wants the minimum clearance between the hull of a tanker and the sea floor increased to 16 1/2 feet from the current 11.5. 
Others suggest that laden su­pertankers be required to use other routes through the Indonesian archipelago that offer deeper passage. 
Japan to store plutonium for energy 
TOKYO (AP) -The government will ship more than 3,000 containers of nuclear waste from the production of plutonium in France and Britain to Japan for storage, officials said Tuesday. 
A recent shipment of 1. 7 tons of plutonium from France triggered an international outcry over the danger of an accident or terrorist attack. The waste is highly radioactive like plutonium, but it cannot be used to make nuclear warheads. 
Japan, which has to import most of its energy sources, plans to use the plutonium for fuel to generate electricity in fast-breeder reactors that produce more plutonium than they consume. 
Masato Nakamura, an official at Japan's Science and Technology Agency, said a storage facility for the waste products from the reprocessing is being built in northern Japan and should be ready by February 1995. 
Nakamura said Japan has sent 2,900 tons of spent nuclear fuel to France for reprocessing into 30 tons of plutonium. The radioactive waste from reprocessing there and in Britain is mixed with glass, hardened and put in casks. 
Panel says Asian grass may help prevent erosion in U.S. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A common Asian grass used for perfume is a potent barrier to soil erosion, a panel of the National Research Council said Tuesday. 
The panel said the grass, called vetiver, can significantly stem erosion -estimated at 20 billion tons of soil a year or the equivalent of12.5 to 17.5 million acres offarm 
land.  Erosion  also  leads  to  
deforestation.  
Nobel  laureate  Norman  E.  

Borlaug, a professor at Texas A&M University and head of the panel, said, "I was skeptical at first. But I've seen vetiver at work. (It) could indeed play a very useful role in many places." 
But stringent environmentalists contend that bringing in species from other continents disrupts the ecosystem. They would rather implement a less abusive form of farming and cattle grazing that would reduce the amount of erosion. 
Vetiver grass is not like the grass on your lawn, his report said. 
"It is a big, coarse, very tough bunch grass and it grows ... wide at the base with a cluttered mass of dense stems. In the process of oozing through the wall of grass, the water can no longer hold the load of silt that it would otherwise carry after a tropical downpour. 
"The stout lines of vertical thatch hold back moisture long enough to give it a chance to soak in." 
Vetiver grass apparently originated in India and is usable mostly in warm climates, including Louisiana and other areas along the Gulf coast. It has been found in 70 countries from Argentina to Zimbabwe. 
But in many places its value is not recognized or has been forgotten. The report calls for more research, especially on vetiver's ability to withstand cold weather, so that it can be adapted to more areas. The panel said it has survived in Fujian, China, where winter temperatures go down to 16 degrees. 
"One enthusiast even planted it on a ski slope in Italy, and there, north of Rome, it has perhaps miraculously made it through several winters," the report said. The council is a private non-profit institution, chartered by the U.S. Congress and working for the National Academy of Sciences. 
The report warned that vetiver is not a panacea. It cannot be used on slopes that are too steep. It needs some heat, sunlight, care and sometimes a little fertilizer. 
Lake plans on hold 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -The Army Corps of Engineers has shelved an environmental impact statement on a proposed $70 million development project at Patoka Lake in southern Indiana, a move environmentalists hope will doom the pro­ject. 
The Corps took the action last month after the developers, a group called Patoka Pa.rtners, missed a third extended deadline to provide more information about the environmental impact the recreational development would have. 
The Corps first asked for the additional information in August 1991. Bill Reynolds, president of one of the companies that make up Patoka Partners, said the group plans to provide the information, but haven't had time. 
The project, brought before the Natural Resources Commission in 1987, would include a hotel, golf courses, marina, theme park and wild-animal park on the lake's Tillery Hill peninsula. Opponents say it would threaten one of the last undeveloped wilderness areas in Indiana. 
The commission initially approved the idea and asked the Corps to alter its master plan for development at the lake to allow for the project. 
The Department of Natural Resources, which manages the property, prepared an environmental analysis, but con­servationists appealed to the commission, winning a delay until the corps produced its own statement. 
-------~--~----------------------------~-------------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, January 27, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-In-Chief  631-4542  AccentJSaint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint Business Office Sports News/Photo  631-4541 631-5313 631-4543 631-5323  Day Editor/Production Advertising Systems!OTS Office Manager  631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students use 'computer' Replica of Mary to visit ND 
Dear Editor: 
x 6' photographic replica of the 
to predict the outcome of 
On the morning of December Miraculous Image in Mexico. 
9. 1531 in a small town in The Missionary Image is a gift Mexico . the Blessed Virgin from the Catholics of Mexico to
this year's Super Bowl 
Mary appeared to an Indian the Catholics of the United 
peasant by the name of Juan States. In April 1991. the Dear Editor: retain possession of the pigskin Diego. Mexican Bishops prayed that This correspondence effec­on both ominous occasions. 
The Blessed Mother re­the Missionary Image would "be 
tively summarizes live months The Dallas defense will inter­quested that Juan Diego in­well received in all of the of intensive analysis and inter­cept backup Jim "Da' Weenie" struct the local bishop to build a Americas and supported in her pretation of data assembled Kelly twice, once in each half as church in the valley in which mission to end abortion and 
from a plethora of sources and Dallas surges to escape the first she appeared. The bishop, un­convert millions." compiled by the sports and half of play, down 14.15 -able to believe Juan Diego's The image will be present at recreation engineers humbly 10.08. Thurman "Da' Ego" story desired a sign to verify his the 5:15 Thursday Mass at Sa­
listed below. The culmination of Thomas will have a decent 5 claim. Mary, in response to the cred Heart Basilica, held for nearly 16 years of testing null hours as he rushes for 13 2 bishop's request. instructed pro-life intentions marking the hypotheses and rejecting one yards in a losing cause. How­Juan to climb to the top of a hill 20th anniversary of Hoe v. 
after the other, the results ever, lack of vision by Marv and called Tepeyac and gather the Wade. The Mass will be spon­stated below can be considered a dearth of S.A.C. by the Bills flowers there as a sign. sored by Campus Ministry, the as close to the truth as is hu­leads America's team onwards When Juan reached the top, Children of Mary, the Knights of manly possible. to the first of its seven consecu­despite the fact that it was the the Immaculata, and the 
Utilizing a 26 line white tive Super bowls (back next dead of winter and the ground ND/SMC Right to Life. Follow­
database and a state or the art year with those results). was frozen, he found many ing the Mass will be veneration 8 megabit integrated computer roses blooming. He gathered of the image and a talk at 7:30 system from Japan, we have One of the top secret Bills these flowers in his tilma, or in the Library Auditorium by
extensively juxtaposed all theo­schemes involves reinstating cloak, and returned to the the Image's National Guardian. retical, potential, possible, Scott Norwood 20 minutes prior bishop. Upon unfolding the Daniel Lynch. Mr. Lynch. an comprehensible, logical, and to game time, just so the Mrs. tilma. the bishop dropped to his attorney from Alberg Spring.illegible Super Bowl combina­Levy will have someone to knees at what he saw. On Juan VT. will be speaking on the tions onto 2 graphs, again dis­blame the disaster on. Scott will Diego's tilma had appeared a ica and bend an iron crucift.x a miracle of Guadalupe. played below. All the latter or come through in de facto form miraculous image of Our Lady. few feet away, but failed to even The following morning. Fri­former (whichever you like and miss 2 field goals, one from The image of Mary portrayed break the glass encasing the day. January 29, the image will better) factors were decom­6.5 yards out. Michael Irvin will as a pregnant young Native tilma. be present for a peaceful rosary posed as we simulated the ac­be my man Troy's favorite American woman was loaded Scientific analysis of the tilma service from 8-10:30 a.m. in 
tual game playing over 5,000 has revealed its mysterious na­
target and will even catch a with symbols that had special front of South Bend's only
times and arrived at the con­pass from Jay Novacek for a meaning for the Indians of ture. The image is not a paint­abortion clinic, the Women's clusion beneath. Hegression total of 227 yards receiving. Mexico. These symbols indi­ing, nor is the result of any Pavillion at 2010 Ironwood Cir­analysis, scatter diagrams, Contrary to the rules governing cated to the Indians that this identifiable inks of dyes. In cle. Following the service, the 
mean yield per production his former position. Head Coach was a woman of great honor addition, microscopic analysis image will be taken to the term. intangible contributors Jimmy Johnson is allowed to and dignity. held in high favor of the eyes reveal the reflection chapel of Hegina Hall at St. 
and the grid system designed by pay his players at this job and by God. The image led to the of Juan Diego and the bishop Mary's where there will be a some guy called Descartes were will reward everyone with a conversion of over nine million which one would expect to see Mass at 12:20 p.m. all essential in our superhuman free bottle of his favorite hair Indians over the next ten years looking into a real human eye. We would like to take this op­
statistical achievement. glue. and put an end to the human The 461 year old image re­portunity to invite aU to join us 
The final score will be, yes, sacrifice of the Aztecs. mains today as an object of in honoring Our Lady and pray­will be, Dallas 30.83, Buffalo Erich Baker The image miraculously exists great devotion for Catholics ing for the end of abortion. 
19.78. An early start by Buffalo Sean Arthurs today in a shrine in Mexico. throughout the Americas. On Thursday. January 28, the
will be hampered due to Em­Mike Rood There have been attempts to Michael Cotter 
mitt Smith's rushing prowess, Josh Smith destroy it. A bomb laid the foot Missionary Image of Our Lady ND/SMC Right to Life until he fumbles in the second Dave Krunmen of the image managed to blow of Guadalupe will be coming to Jan.26, 1993 
Notre Dame. This is an exact 4'quarter. Troy Aikman will be Arin Vigil out all the windows of the basil-sacked twice but will somehow Jan.25,1992 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IF YOU'R& 50MWN& I HAVEN'T 
HeARl?FRDM IN YEARS, AND YOU'R&CAUIN'3 813CAUS5 OPMY NWJ JOB, 7HANKS ANPG(}(X)8Y~. 
1-27 
IF, ON 7Hl3 (]7}1&1<. HAND, YOU'R& AN F.O.J., PlCASI3 UAV8 A M855A66 ANDIU CAU-W RIGHTBACK.' 8YI3.' :;&313P.'f 
'It gives me great comforting sense that things seen are temporal and things unseen are eternal.' 
Helen Keller 

Close your eyes to see. Then submit: 
QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Wednesday, January 27, 1993 page 11 
Eating Disorder Awareness Week to educate campuses 
Editor's note: The following is part one in a three part !>eries for Eating Disorder Awareness Week which begins this Sunday: 
On February 3, 1993, Na­
tional Eating Disorders Aware­
ness Day, all across the nation 
colleges and universities, public 
and private school, hospitals 
and treatment facilities, and 
mental health professionals will 
be presenting programs and 
distributing literature to 
heighten public awareness and 
understanding of eating disor­
ders. 
Six programs have been 
planned for the Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's community 
next week. These programs are 
being co-sponsored by 
Counseling and Career Devel­
opment (SMC). University 
Counseling Center (NO), Center 
for Women's Alliance (SMC), 
and Healthy Options for Prob­
lem Eaters (H.O.P.E.), Memorial 
Hospital. 
It is our hope that this series 
will provide you with some 
"food for thought" as you exam­
ine attitudes, beliefs, judge­
ments and values as they relate 
to your relationship with food. 
your feelings about your body, 
and your reactions to others 
based on physical appearance. 
During March, 1988, the 
University Counseling Center 
conducted a survey of all un­
dergraduate women on campus 
regarding their eating habits 
and behaviors related to eating 
disorders. 
Forty-four percent of the 
women surveyed responded. 
While the survey focused upon 
the prevalence of eating disor­
ders among women, eating 
disorders are not exclusively a 
women's issue. Men also de­
velop eating disorders, although 
not in the alarming proportions 
· Dear Editor: 
I want to extend my condo­
lences to Kurt Mills (The Ob­
server, Jan. 21) and let him 
know that I share his grief over 
the political and economic tur­
moil in Haiti. The people of that 
country need our help badly. 
However, it cannot be our role 
to become a welfare office to 
the world. Not even America, 
the last great superpower of 
our age, has the resources or 
the administrative efficiency to 
handle such a task. 
I understand your claims that 
we would be rescinding a cen­
turies-old tradition of being a 
safe haven for freedom, as pro­
claimed by the Statue of Liberty. 
Unfortunately, the entire 
planet has entered an era in 
which idealistic solutions need 
to be compromised with reality 
in order to ensure survival. Our 
generation can no longer drop 
our trash in a landfill with no 
fear of environmental repercus­
sions; nor can the world expel 
its tired, poor, huddling masses 
to our continent and expect us 
to assimilate them with ease. 
As a resident of South Florida, 
I see those poor masses daily 
when I am at home. Some of 
them have found a way to stay 
alive and healthy, and that is 
the great part of our nation. 

Unfortunately, the ones that 
stick in my mind right now are 
the ones standing at intersec­
tions near downtown Miami; 
their signs read, "Family man! 
No drugs/ Need food, work/ For 
kids/ God Bless You." 
Some of them are doing so 
well they can afford two or 
as do women. 
In addition, as the prevalence of eating disorders increases in women, men are more likely to be affected. Your sister, your girlfriend, future wife or daughter may be affected by an eating disorder. It's important that you understand what eat­ing disorders are and what fac­tors contribute to their devel­opment so that you can be a supportive and positive influ­ence to the women in your life. 
Eating disorders fall into two primary categories: anorexia and bulimia. Anorexia is de­fined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-Revised pub­lished by the American Psychi­atric Association as: 
1) body weight of 15 percent below that expected 
2) an absence of menstrual cycle due to low body weight 
3) concern about weight and shape 
4) an intense fear of gaining weight 
Estimates of the prevalence of anorexia indicate that between 1 in 100 to 1 in 800 women suffer from this disorder. 
The onset of anorexia is usu­ally between the ages of 13 and 
20. Anorexia kills approxi­mately 5 to 21 percent of those who suffer from it. 
Bulimia is defined as: 
1) recurrent episodes of binge eating 
2) two binges per week 
3) the experience of being out of control while bingeing 
4) concern about body shape and weight 
5) engagement in any of the following methods of purging: vomiting, strict dieting, exces­sive exercise, laxative use, or diuretic use. 
In other studies using similar criteria, the incidence of bu­limia is reported to be approx­imately 3 percent. The onset of 
three different colors of marker 
to catch my attention and elicit 
a daily donation of glove com­
partment change. 
What a wonderful life, what a wonderful country. And as we take in more homeless, that is what we keep: more homeless. 
As a Miamian I also rage with you, Mr. Mills, at the political hypocrisy of the immigration policies. Unfortunately, history has produced a biased system in our area. 
The Cuban exiles swarmed in to escape the scourge Of Com­munism, and the McCarthy­following militants of our par­ents' generation welcomed them with open arms to protect them from Ivan the Red and Big Bad Castro. 
bulimia tends to be later that for anorexia and is often pro­ceeded by a period of restrictive dieting. 
Recently, more attention is being focused on compulsive overeating in addition to anorexia and bulimia. Compul­sive overeating is similar to bu­limia because it is characterized by uncontrollable eating fol­lowed by guilt and feelings of shame about the behavior and weight gain. 
Unlike bulimics, compulsive eaters typically do not engage in purging behavior but fluctu­ate between rigid dieting and overeating. 
Food is used unknowingly to cope with stress. The compulsive overeating whether overeating or dieting, is engaged in a struggle with food. 
Compulsive overeating is often confused with obesity, but one does not necessarily imply the other. Obesity is based on a definition of weight only with no reference to psychological factors and can result from any number of physical impair­ments such as brain lesions of metabolic problems. 
A compulsive overeater may or may not be obese. With all three eating disorders, the issue of control (e.g., control of food, feelings weight, others' reaction, etc.) is at the center of the struggle. Men who suffer from eating disorders are more likely to be compulsive overeaters than anorexics or bulimics. 
The results from the Notre Dame survey indicate that 0.6 percent of the respondants were diagnosable as anorexic. This is similar to that found in other studies. Sever percent of the respondants were consid­ered to be bulimic, a little more than double the frequency re­ported in comparable studies. 
Three decades later, those ex­iles are on top of the American Dream and have a powerful hand in our politics. Part of their power involves creating the special "Processed-While-U­Wait Lounge" at the Krome Detention Center for the Cubans that continue to arrive and pass swiftly through. 
The Haitian nationals have no such short-cuts, and this is truly an atrocity in a country that calls itself a Democracy. 
I'm sorry, Mr. Mills, but the answer cannot be an equally lenient process for the Haitians. I cringe at the thought of sounding like a xenophobe, but we need instead to instigate a more restricted yet balanced process for all those seeking 
An additional four percent of the respondants exhibited all but one of the symptoms of anorexia, and 9 percent re­ported all but one of the symp­toms of bulimia. 
Thus, a total of 20 percent of the respondants t:o the Notre Dame survey had either a diagnosable eating disorder or a serious eating problem. 
Forty-six percent of the re­spondants had some symptoms of an eating problem. Fifteen percent indicated they are "concerned about their weight," and 19 percent showed no symptoms of an eating disorder. 
The literature sl!lggests that the norm for women is to ex­hibit some concern about their weight and appearance. There­fore, this group was also con­sidered to fall within the normal range. This data suggests that the frequency of disturbed eating behavior among Notre Dame women is quite high, occurring in two-thirds of the women who responded to the survey. 
The etiology of eating disor­ders is multifaceted and is most typically found in the interac­tion between sociocultural, de­velopmental, biological and fa­milial factors. Our society stig­matizes the obese and values attractiveness, particularly thinness. 
Numerous studies suggest that these attitudes affect peo­ple of all ages and that these social norms for thinness are applied more strongly to women than to men. Women at greatest risk for eating disorders are those who have accepted and internalized most' deeply the sociocultural mores about thinness and attractiveness. 
Certain environments also in­crease the risk of eating disor­ders. Notre Dame represents one such environment because 
asylum. 
It's harsh, true, but at least it's equal. If all we do is let ev­eryone in to live on the dole, then we have only made that many people into an economic liability when in their own country, with our help, they could be political assets. 
Do not expect too much too soon of our new pre.sident, ei­ther. It seems that change doesn't come too easily in the island nations. 
We tried to get rid of Castro, remember? After running around and shooting at beer cans in the everglades with American weapons for a while, the Cubans tried to take Cuba back. 
That was thirty years ago, 
it is predominantly middle and 
upper class, and it is a stressful 
semi-cl8Sed situation where the 
sociocultural pressure to be 
thin may be intensified. 
The competitive school envi­
ronment may foster not only 
academic competiti-on but also 
competition regarding the 
achievement of a beautiful (i.e., 
thin) body. Individuals who 
participate in activities that 
dictate certain body weights 
such as dancers, models, ac­
tresses, and athletes also evi­
dence a greater incidence of 
eating disorders. 
Although our society pre­scribes a thin ideal, some women are genetically predis­·posed to have a heavier body weight. Dieting, the culturally prescribed method of achieving this thin ideal, often results in 
eating problems. 
Dieting is not only an ineffec­
tive way to attain long-term 
weight loss, but it may also 
contribute to subsequent weight 
gain, binge eating and self­
defeating psychological results. 
To what extent does the Notre 
Dame community, and more 
specifically your own attitudes 
and behaviors, foster an envi­
ronment in which people need 
to achieve some "ideal" in order 
to be accepted? 
The co-sponsors of next week's events hope that you will take some time to learn more about eating disorders. 
-
This author. gratefully ac­knowledges Christine Conway, Ph.D., members of the Univer­sity Counseling Center for de­signing the Notre Dame survey and analyzing the results pre­sented in this article. 
Rita 1. Donley, Ph.D. is an as­sistant director at the Univer­sity Counseling Center. 
and Castro is still around, even 
without Ivan to back him up. 
Somehow I don't think Haiti will 
be much simpler. 
And do not criticize Mr. Clin­
ton for flip-flopping in the great 1 
tradition of presidents before 1 
him. He had some help from my .. I 
home politicians: Right now I 
I
Florida is still reeling from the 
I
blow dealt by Hurricane An­
I
drew, and we are nowhere near 
I
completely relieving all of the 
I
victims. 
I 
I 
So, when the Haitians started I 
packing their bags, Florida's I 
governor did the only thing he 
coQld do: call the National 
Guard again and prepare for 
another disaster. Fortunately, 
this caught Bill's attention. For 
our sake, he broke another 
promise. 
Mr. Mills, I do not know why President Bush chose not to 
-
fight for democracy in the Caribbean. I do know, however, that he did make incredible changes in the eastern hemisphere. 
And, unfortunately, that is 
what President Clinton has to 
deal with: U.S. forces sent to 
any country with a desert, get­
ting shot at, through no action 
of his own. He also has to deal 
with his country, his economy, 
and his people. The man is our 
president, not God. 
Give the man time, Mr. Mills. 
Chip Highsmith Cavanaugh Hall Jan.24,1993 

Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, January 27, 1993 
s 
-
... 
-
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, Life, Whatnot 
Arts and Letters need not apply 
N 
icole was a second semester senior. She was an Arts and Letters student. And she was at Career and Placement for the first time. The woman asked her to sit in the waiting 
room. She eyed Nicole's jeans and sweater-it 
would be a few minutes, she said, but Nicole 
might have fun checking out what the "other" 
students were wearing. 
Trying not to feel offended, Nicole moved into 
the other room. She felt like she was swimming 
in a sea of navy blue-suits, heels, purses, fold­
ers-in fact. she felt sort of sick. 
It was all so...professional. But that was what 
she was there for, right? To discover what her 
next life-her professional life-would be all 
about. 
She was in search of a Direction, and what 
better place to find it than here? 
The career counselor called Nicole's name. 
This was it, she thought-the person who would 
make everything become crystal dear. 
Entering the oflice, she sat down and took a deep breath. And that's when the hell began. 
So what exactly are you here for? 
"Well, I just thought I should sit down with someone to talk about what I'm going to be doing next year." 
Ok. What are you interested in? 
''I'm thinking about something in communica­tions-maybe something involving writing." 
Jlmmm. , .Well, we don't have a whole lot of interview opportunities in communications and writing. That s more of a plaid-suit-with-a-nice­scarftype offield. We tend to specialize in navy or pin-stripes. How about something in sales? 
"Sales? I don't know.. .I don't really want to sell anything. I consider myself more on the creative side." 
Jlow about a financial analyst position? They interz1iew ANY discipline. 
"Actually, I was wondering about Public Rela­tions." 
Public Relations? Public Relations? I can't help you with that. You'd have to consult one of our books. 
"One of your books? But I just wanted to get an interview with someone..." 
An interview? Usten-J'm sorry, but the only things I can help you with are sales and financial analyst positions. You're Arts and Letters. Now if you were an accounting or engineering major. .. 
"But I'm really not interested in selling any­thing or analyzing anything. Especially anything with numbers. Isn't there anyone I can talk to?" 
Not here. Perhaps you'd be interested in start­ing a mail campaign. You could get some names, some addresses, whip up a cover letter. .. 
But Nicole had already left-without a Direction. 
As she swam through the Navy Sea once more, she hesitantly grabbed a copy of the Ca­reer and Placement Manual. Maybe-just maybe, there was something for her. Something absolutely perfect. 
Back in her dorm room, however, Nicole learned the awful truth. There was NBD. there was Dean Witte!', there was even Radio Shack. But there was absolutely nothing for her. 
She flipped through the manual, and stopped when she came to a section called "How To De­dine An Offer." 
She laughed. That's definitely something she didn't need. 
Jahnelle Harrigan is Accent editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

Labor of love 
Forty years later Rocco's legend lives on. 
By MIKE MASONE 
Accent Writer 
From the outside, Rocco's Restaurant seems an unlikely setting for a dramatic World War II love story, complete with wartime imprisonment, long-distance longing, patience and persistence. But a walk through its doors reveals a quaint atmosphere, friendly ownership. and some of the best pizza in South Beod-a combination which has enabled Rocco's to remain a culinary mainstay for over 40 years. 
But perhaps as appealing as the cuisine is the history of this family-run restaurant that began in 19 51 with a newlywed couple and a 12-seat dining room. 
It all began in 1930 when Julia Seduri left her home in Italy and arrived in South Bend with her family. Thirteen years later, Rocco Ameduri of the Italian Army was captured by American forces in North Africa and held prisoner in a POW camp in California, according to Warren Verteramo, son-in-law to Rocco and current owner of the restaurant. 
Verteramo explained that, unable to correspond with him, Rocco's family asked the Seduri's to try, as the two families had been neighbors in Italy. Julia be­gan to write Rocco, sent him her picture, and thus fatefully began a relationship which transformed into 46 years of matrimony. 
Rocco recalls seeing the picture of the attractive young brunette and immediately writing back: "I wish I could marry you." 
"Anything could happen," was Julia's reply. 
After a string of love letters, Rocco asked someone in his camp to take his picture, which he sent to Julia. She later wrote Rocco's commanding officer to request permission to visit him in a POW camp near Salt Lake City, where he had been moved. 

"From his picture, he looked tall, like a football player. But when I met him, he was short," she remembers with a smile. 
The two returned to Italy after the war and were married in November 1946. The following spring, Julia returned to South Bend, but because of immigration laws, Rocco followed her one year later. 
From 1949-50, Rocco held a job at Notre Dame while Julia worked as a waitress. It was Julia's mother who owned the small building which eventually became Rocco's Restaurant. 
"I knew how to cook, she knew how to waitress, so we thought, 'Why not give it a try?'" Rocco said. 
Today the restaurant still maintains that quaint, family-oriented atmosphere. Rocco and Julia still frequent the restaurant they founded, serving as host and hostess and personally greeting all customers. They have passed on daily business operations to their daughter Linda and Verter­amo, her husband. Diane Cooper has been serving as the chief waitress for 20 years. 
Scantily decorated, a mural, painted in the early 1950s by two Notre Dame students in exchange for some home-cooked meals, still covers the dining room wall. Behind the cash register hangs autographed pictures of some of Hocco's more famous diners, in­cluding Lou Holtz, Hegis Philbin, and Moose Krause. 
Located off Notre Dame Avenue minutes from campus, Hocco's has long been a favorite hangout of students, alumni, and faculty. Even the increase in crime in the off-campus area hasn't hurt their business. "The only difference is that most students drive here nowadays. In the past, they used to walk down ND Avenue," said Verteramo. 
But the area around Rocco's has steadily begun to improve. With the new Notre Dame Apartment Complex recently renovated, and a police sub-station under con­struction, the area's reputation as being unsafe may in time disappear. 
"We usually have no problems at all," said Verteramo. 
As for changes in the students through the years, Rocco's operator has noticed very few. "If any­thing, I would say the student crowd is more reserved today than it has been in the past," he said. "But the students have al-. ways been very well­behaved." 
Rocco's Restaurant only seats 7 5 and accepts no reservations. It is open Tuesday-Thursday, 5 p.m. ­midnight; Friday-Saturday, 5 p.m. -1 a.m. Its pizzas range in price from $7.50 to $14.00; other Italian specialties run from $5.00 and up. On football weekends, the line extends out the door and around the corner. 
Not bad for a young couple who refused to let a war stand in their way. 
Poet confronts complexity of times 
By MARA DIVIS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Lines of poetry will come alive at Saint Mary's tonight as C.K. Williams, a contemporary poet noted for his radical and direct style, reads selections of his own work, according to Max Westler, Assistant Professor of English at Saint Mary's. 
Williams, a New Jersey native who has been publishing and teaching writing since he began his career as a poet in the early 1960s, has published six volumes, in addition to establishing a reputation for personal, radical 
subject matter, Westler said. 
Williams' work has been critically acclaimed, most recently by the National 'Book Critics Circle, who nominated his "A Dream of Mine," published in 1992, among four other collections for their annual award for best volume of poetry. 
"He's been very well-re­viewed," Westler said. "In any disposition, he's going to make any list of important poets." 
Much of this fame stems from both Williams' subject matter and his unusual style, which includes longer, narrative lines and often a prose-like structure, Westler said. 
"He started out as an angry young man from a radical point of view," he said. "He's then taken that challenging point of view and brought it into the mainstream." Williams' poetry approaches personal topics that people tend to fear. 
"He writes about things that people would rather avoid," he said. "He confronts the complexity of the times we live in. It [his poetry] represents the nature of the world as it is." 
Because of the nature of uniquely structured poetry, much of modern poetry is difficult to read aloud, even for the poets themselves, Westler said. However, Williams has the ability to read his work so that it can be understood in the sense in which it was written. 
"He's a very good reader," according to Westler. "Not all poets read their work very well. It's wonderful to see these poems read in the voice in which he wrote them." 
Williams will read tonight at 7:30 in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall. The reading is sponsored by the Department of English and is free of charge. A reception will follow in Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 
The Observer page 13
Wednesday, January 27,1993 
Don Shula hires Helton to rejuvinate offensive line .._ 
MIAMI (AP) -Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula made a move to improve one of the team's trouble spots Tuesday, hiring veteran NFL assistant Kim Helton to coach the offensive line. 
Longtime Dolphins offensive line coach John Sandusky, 67, will retain his role as assistant head coach. Dwight Stephen­son, assistant offensive line coach this past year and a five­time Pro Bowl center for the Dolphins, resigned to pursue business interests. 
''I'm proud of my association with the Dolphins," Stephenson said. "It was strictly a business 
decision,  and  I  wish  the  
Dolphins  luck  in  the  '93  
season."  

The line received much of the blame for a slump by Miami's underachieving offense, which scored just six touchdowns in the final six regular-season games. The Dolphins ranked 24th in the NFL in rushing, and Dan Marino was sacked a ca­reer-high 28 times. 
Helton, 44, spent the past three years as offensive line 
coach for  the  los  Angeles  
Raiders.  
"We  feel  this  is  going  to  

strengthen our staff," Shula said. "Kim brings a lot of ex­pertise to us, and we're going to work long and hard to make it work and hopefully improve our running game." 
Helton was an assistant at the University of Florida and then at the University of Miami in 1979-82 before going to the NFL as an assistant for Tampa Bay, Houston and the Raiders. 
"In the last couple of weeks I turned d<1'Wn three jobs in the NFL to take this one," Helton said. "If you're going to be a great football coach, you'd bet­ter learn from one. I missed Bear Bryant, but I don't intend to miss Don Shula." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: N.D. VARSITY  Who's your basketball coach?!  PLAN AHEAD!!  SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93!  
Notices  LEITERMAN'S JACKET AND PLAID SCARF-PLEASE RETURN,  FOR RENT  Who's your basketball coach?! Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3  STAYING here for the SUMMER?  JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE  
NO QUESTIONS ASKED.  basketball tix to the Kentucky  GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY,  
TYPING 287-4082  CALL JIM AT  x1 066  2br. Apts 4 blocks from NO  WildCATastrophe due to take place in the month de amor. Be a pal,  Sub-lease our apartment at CASTLE POINT­ LIMITED SPACE. SUN SPLASH TOURS  
·sENIO~s·  Found Wed. 20 Jan. »  set of  $350 a month  samaritan, or whatever and sell him  1-800-426-7710.  
SENIORITIS WEEK lues-Dinner at Chi-Chi's  two Chrysler keys on ring. Nothing else on keyring. To  Newly Remodeled 232-8256  the tickets or one of his Italian relatives might pay you a visit. Then  CALL TODAY x4673  ...AWESOME SPRING BREAKS!  
50% off appetizers & more  claim call Kirsten at 4185.  the time for haggling will be over.  THIS WEEtK ONLY. MEN AND  BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10  
Call Skip at x2052 and leave a  WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE CUT  MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH  
Thurs-Chicago Scavenger Hunt  Music student seeks roommate to  message if he ain't around.  AND STYLE. CALL COSIMOS FOR  KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249,  
$12 includes bus & great Prizes Fri-Senior Lunch  LOST: Set of keys (and 2 bike keys) on Cubs and Notre Dame keyrings. Call Brendan at 277-8178  share 2 bedroom, pleasant apartment, low rent, 288-8933  I need DUKE & KENTUCKY tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris  DETAILS 277-1875.  DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386.  
if found.  x1235.  SHORT ON CASH?  
Sat-Pre Super Bowl Party Sr. Bar 9-2 FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA  LOST: Green wind breaker at Campus View on Saturday, Jan 22.  FURNISHED ROOM, $170 mo. Walk to campus. 287-2159.  Need 1 ,2,3,or 4 GA or stud. tickets for Duke game. Call Nicole  Borrow frdm the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  SPRING BREAK "93" with COLLEGE TOURS CANCUN $459  
cheap nachos and other specials,  It has yellow trim and my name  at X1618.  30 day loans  Air, Hotel, Parties, Nightly  
Pizza Football Pool  sewn in it.  Please call634-3447 if  3 BEDROOM HOUSE  Up to $250  Entertainment! Interested in  
you have it.  $490 MONTH + $300 DEP.  help  @ 1% interest  traveling for free?  Become a  
Sat-Sun-SKI TRIP  SECURITY SYSTEM  i need 1 duke ticket  College Tours Representative.  For  
Timber Ridge  232-3616  call julie x3736  Monday -Friday  '  more information & reservations  
$35 includes bus, I1ft ticket, & hotel  11:30-12]30  call:  
Rentals $12  Lost:  Silver cross on chain  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  1st Floor UaFortune  LOUIE 1-800-395-4896.  
219-291-7153.  I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS  O'Hara Lounge  
Bulls vs. Knicks Lottery  Lost in or near JACC.  Reward  MARY  X2862  
$1 lottery tickets  offered.  To the guys who "most politely"  
Buy in LaFortune  For Rent  NEED 4 TICKETS TO THE  asked us to leave the b-ball  FOR ALL OF YOU MEATHEADS  
Winners can buy 2 tix for the game Feb. 12 LEARN TO CLOG OR C & W DANCE. BEGINNER'S VIDEOS.  Call Scott x4-1583 WANTED  Notre Dame Apts. -Newly Remodeled 2Br Apts -Great Rental Rates Start at $400/mth. Call 232-8256  DUKE/N.D. GAME. CALL JOHN AT 232-2944. I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for Kentucky -Brian x1 069  court at the Rock: Thanks fot setting us straightl For a while there we almost thought that women were aloud to play there too. Our  WHO THINK THEY CAN TELL EVERYONE ELSE TO STAY OUT OF THE GYM, WHY DON'T YOU GET SOME KINO OF HINT ABOUT REALITY AND GET YOUR MEATY  
FOR FREE CATALOG WRITE: FANCY FEET DANCE & BAND WEAR. P.O. BOX 569-ND. CLINTON, MS 39060. Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 NO Ave & Howard RAPID WORDPROCESSING Call Lori at 271-0754 50,000,000 ·sENIORS• CONTESTANTS NEEDED FOR THE SR. DATING GAME Don't be lazy, just be crazy! Pick up applications in the Sr. Class Office DAYTONA...DAYTONA CHEAP GROUP RATES call x2466 DAYTONA"..DAYTONA COME SEE IRISH ACCENT  Bridget's is now taking apps. Must be 21 and able to work now thru next school year. Apply in person at 8p.m. on Wed, Thurs. or Fri. Books in Philosophy, world's largest mail-order book catalogue, needs part-time (10-15 hours weekly) help from an industrious, intelligent, computer literate, politically incorrect, jargon­free, non-deconstruction-disabled grad or advanced undergrad. We sell books and books-on-disk worldwide and scan, edit. typeset, and publish scholarly books. Good (not great) pay, no benefits, flexible hours, frenetic pace, messy but enjoyable milieu, no ambience. Learn the publishing business from the bottom down. 288-4950. Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico. the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584  FOR SALE FURNITURE. MUST SELL! CALL 3234 1 00 Watt stereo with receiver and amplifier. 15" speakers,excellent sound, perfect condition. call 271­1443 1983 Ford Escort for sale. Great condition. Call 291-6681. SONY receiver:Dolby surr. sound 60+ 1 Ow/ch. Still in box great deal @$200 Call Chris x3830 SNES -F Fant II GB-S Mario II x1696 TICKETS WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814 WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR KENTUCKY GAME! CALL MEG-X3884 I need one Kentucky ticket. Student or GA. Call Brian at 1194. DESPERATELY NEED 1 Duke Tik Stu or GA Call Leigh x2912 We have 4 Thursday Keenan Revue tickets that we'd like to trade for Fri. or Sat. Call Mike x4258 or Molly 233-4925 PERSONAL AVOID THE RUSH I!!! Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day message, but don't wait until the last minute to type it in!! Classifieds can be placed anytime between now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The Observer office (3rd floor LaFortune). Summer jobs and internships­University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, is interviewing goal oriented students for a challenging, full-time summer  sincerest apologies!!! CRUISE & BAHAMAS VACATION 7 days, 6 nights -cruise from Fort Lauderdale to the Bahamas. 2 people $360 (air not included). Call 273-2740.: "Is civilization dead? Not while people still waltz."-Anon. Contribute to civilization Ballroom Dance Lessons Stepan 8-9:30PM Thursday. SMC & ND Summer Programs­London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call Prof. A.R. Black 284-4460(office). 272-3726(home). Florida SPRING BREAK 7 nights Beachfront $139-159. RESERVE rooms NOW: Call CMI1-800-423­5264. NAPPY, YOU HAIRY STUD, WHEN CAN I SEE YOU AGAIN ???? NOT THE SHOWER!II LUV, drainy Snite Museum Shop Sale January 29-31 10-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun  HEADS OUT OF THE ROCK. Sale! Sale! Sale! T-shirts, art posters, scarves, mugs, books, baskets, pots and more! Museum Shop, Fri-Sun. Snite! Snite! Snite! Roses are red Daises are white Valentine, did you buy My gift at the Snits? Museum Shop Sale, Fri-Sun Surprise your Mom Send something nice back to her. Snite Museum Shop Sale January 29-31 10-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun Help combat visual illiteracy! Convince your friends that you are cultured! Snite Museum Shop Sale Jan. 29-31 Don't just stand there, BUY SOMETHING! Snite Museum Shop Sale Jan. 29-31 1 0-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun  - 
NOTRE DAME'S OWN COMEDY & IMPROV TROUPE This Thursday the 28th in the La Fortune Ballroom. The LAUGHTER begins at 9:00  DRUMMER needed to play all kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273 Student Painters is interested in hiring highly motivated students to manage their own bus. we offer management training, credit  I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235  position. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations. Average earnings $3,900. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may be available. Interviews on campus February 3rd. Information and interview sign-up available today at CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library or call1-800-743-5556.  CHAIR CHAIR CHAIR! PANAMA CITY BEACH!!! 7 NIGHTS AT BEACHFRONT HOTEL. STARTING AT $109. CALL JAMES @289-2683  Criticize your professors! Attend the opening reception of The Art Department Faculty Show and The Snite Museum Shop Sale Sunday, Jan. 31, 2-4. free refreshments  
Lost and Found LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI X4209. LOST: Key Chain with 2 keys. Chain contains bronze dolphin, red Swiss Army knife, compass, and a flashlight. Great Sentimental Value. Call Kevin at X1761 lost: ladies' Gold Watch before Finals. All gold. Scratch in top right corner. Great Sentimental Value. Please Call Amy x4530.  backing, and a full support staff earning pot. $8,000. join the· most successful painting co. in Indiana call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom Smith. @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ I need a ride to MIAMI(OH.) UNIVERSITY any weekend Will help pay for gas Call BRIAN 4-2081 @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ I need a ride to Indy this Friday (arrive by 6:00 please). Call Dan at 4-4339. I will pay for Gas!  I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 Help! I need NO/Ken. tix. call Emily x5245 Wanna go to Keenan Revue? Will trade 2 Sat. for 2 Thurs. Call Bridget-X2721 I need 2-4 Kent. tix X4890 WANTED 2 GA's for the DUKE and/or Kentucky games! $$$$$ Please call Cheryl4-4813.  •••••••suPER SUNDAY....... at SUBWAY Let us serve your game party. Buy two footlongs, Get third FREEl 6 ft. party subs as low as $37.95! SR 23 & Ironwood 277-7744 Spring Break! Daytona Beach! -Ocean Front Hotels: Quad Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: VIP Discount/10 card ... Round trip charter bus from $199.50 per person!!! Room only available from $109.50 per person. Limited Availability!!! 1-800-881-BEACH.  TAKE A BREAK! Pray, reflect, talk, do service with the elderly, day care kids, the homeless and more! Come find out about CILA, a bunch of friends striving to live the Gospel in prayer, service, and community. First meeting this semester: Thu., Jan. 28, 7:00 pm at the CSC. See you there! Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in swmmer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or· Stephen collect. (212)369-2597.  Dance! Poetry! Music! Celebrate1he Day of Women at the Snits Museum Sat. Jan. 30, 10-5 Hey .... to the person who wanted a personal, I think you are a ....I . From the guy that is tall enougg Thank you St. Jude Mary and Holy Spirit for many favors granted To Dan-the-Man: lets do raquetball sometime. Thanks for putting wp with my obnoxiousness ...hi BOB!  


eeer.? ~ · --·mRL .vsb~ · --­January 27, 1993 
TRANSACTIONS 
NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 


,  BASEBALL Arnertun Laague BAL TlloiORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terma with Brad Pennington, pitcher; T.R. L-Is and Paul Canty, lnt~. and Don Butord, outfielder, on one-year contracla. MILWAKUEE BREWERS--Agreed to terrre with Kevin Reimer, outfielder, on a one-year contrct. MNNESOTA TWINS--Agreed to Ierma with Richard Garc.a, pitcher, to a one-year contl'lld. SEATILE MARINERS-Agnaed to terrre with Carmelo lolartlnaz, Infielder-outfielder, on a contrac1 with Calgary of the Pacllc Coaat LNgue. TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terma with Rafael Palmalro, first baseman, on a one-year contrlld and Hector Fajardo, pitcher. National Laague NEW YORK WETS-Agreed to terms with Mlka Maddux, pncher, on a two-year contract. BASKETBALL Nallonal Baakatball Aaaoclatlon CHARLOTTE HORNETS--Adlvated Mike Gmlnakl, canter, from the Injured list. Waived Tom Hammonds, lorward. NEW JERSEY NETS-Placed Tate George, guard, on the Injured Nat. Activated Jayson WYNarna, forward, from the Injured llat. FOOTBALL Nallonal Football Laagua MIAMI DOLPHINS--Named Kim Helton offensive llna coach. HOCKEY Colonial Hockay Laagua FLINT BULLDOGS-Activated Ken Spangler, detenaaman, from tha Injured list. Signed John Meaaurt and Torn Saaao, centers. SOCCER Conllnantal Indoor Soccar Laagua CISL-Named Tim Latta chairman of the marketing oommlttee. COLLEGE NCAA-Placed tha Universny of the South's athletic program on probation tor two years tor violations of NCAA legislation In men's baal<etba.IL COLBY-Named David Zazzaro men's lacrosse coach. DEPAUW-Fired Sua Aquila. women's basketball coach and assistant athletic director. Named Page Cotton Interim women's basketball coach. GEORGETOWN, KY.-Announced the realgnatlon ot Kevin Donley, tootbal coach, to take a similar position at Callornla, Pa. INDIANA STATE-Nanwd lolary Ann Calpkay wonwn'a tennla ooadl. Announoad Tonya Hamlfton, center, Ia leaving the basketball team. N.C. CHARLOTTE-Announced James Terrell, guard, Ia leaving the baal<etba.U 188m. At Denwr MINNESOTA (97) Lun-3-12 :H II, Paraon 13-22 :HI 211, Spencer 1-2 1-2 3, W•t 7-13 6-5 ttl, M.WNiama 3-116-10 13, Smith 0-1 0-0 0, Longley 6-10 1-1 11, Bailey 4-5 5-5 t3, Sellon 0-0 0-0 0, McCann 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 36-75 24-35117. DENVER (102) Ella 6-113--4 15, A.WIIama 9-15 4-e 22. Mutormo  WALES CONFERENCE Patrlcl< Dlvlelon W L T Pta GF GA Plttaburgh 33 13 4 70 21 187 Waahlngton 25 20 4 54 1115 178 New Jersey 24 21 3 51 169 166 NY Rangara 22 111 7 51 1116 187 NY lalllllcMn 22 22 5 49 202 160 Philadelphia 18 23 7 43 189 196 Adam& Dlvlalon Montreal 30 17 5 85 208 172 Quebec 27 18 7 61 209 182 Boaton 27 111 4 58 200 160 Buffalo 24 111 6 54 213 173 Hartford · 13 32 4 30 157 228 Ottawa 4 « 3 11 112 245 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlelon W L T Pta GF GA Chicago 30 17 6 68 165 141 Detron 27 20 4 58 212 176 Mlnneaota 25 17 8 58 174 162 Toronto 23 20 7 53 167 156 St Louis 20 23 6 46 169 177 Tarrpa Bay 16 32 3 35 161 1116 Smythe Dlvlalon VanC0U118r 211 14 6 64 220 151 Calgary 25 18 8 56 187 161 Winnipeg 24 20 5 53 165 182 Los Angalaa 23 20 5 51 1115 202 Edmonton 17 27 7 41 139 197 San Joaa 6 41 2 14 134 237 Monday'a Game Montreal 3, Boston 2, OT Tuaaday'a Garnea Late Gamea Not lnduded Boaton 4, Quebec 4, tie New York Islanders 8, N-Jersey 2 Pittsburgh 6, Washington 3 Minnesota 2, Toronto 1 Buffalo 4, Philadelphia 3, OT onawa at St. Louis, (n) Detroit 111 Calgary, (n) San Joaa at Loa Angeles, (n) Wadnaaday'a Garnea Hartford at Montreal, 7:40p.m. Washington at Buffalo, 7:40 p.m. Winnipeg at New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. Detroit at Edmonton, 9:40p.m. Chicago at Vancouver, 10:40 p.rn Thuradey'a Garnea Winnipeg at Boaton, 7:40 p.m. Hanford at 0tt1111a. 7:40 p.m. St Louis at Tarrpa Bay, 7:40p.m. Quebec at Philadelphia, 7:40 p.rn New York lalandera at Pittsburgh, 7:40p.m. N-Jeraay at Mlnnaaota. 8:10p.m. Calgary at Loa Angeles, 10:40 p.m. M lnneaota 21 211 24 23---117 18 32 211 23-102 Denver nt lnnaeota 1-e (M.WIINama 1·1,L;:!~0-4), Denver 0-4 (Jadlaon 0-2, R.Wi~ ~~~~~ ~~·=ner 12),R.WAI-·~-,_,.,.......-.. 20 Danvar 53 (Mutorrtlo 11). Aaalata--Minnaaota 11(M.WIIIaml12), Denwr 22i'::'~: lft;galMlnneaota 28, Denwr 27· n defenaa. A--10,178.  NEW YORK (AP)-NHL acortng leaders through Jan. 24: Player, Team GP G A PTS PIM Lemieux, Ph 40 39 85 104 28 Lafontaine, But 48 30 55 85 45 a-. Boa 46 211 53 82 24 Reochl, Phi 4 7 211 48 77 « Buoe, Van 411 « 30 74 36 MogHny, But 42 46 27 73 26 Selanna, ~ 49 311 34 73 39 Turgeon, NYI 47 211 « 73 18 Gilmour, Tor 49 18 54 72 48 Stevena, Ph 40 36 33 69 86 Yzerman, Oat 51 34 35 69 26 Roenlck, Chi 53 27 42 69 76 RobllalUe, LA 48 32 33 85 62 Hull, StL 49 32 32 64 33 Saklc, Que 43 31 33 64 24 MuHer, Mtl 50 22 42 64 57 Roberta, Cgy 48 27 36 63 146 Sundin, Que 46 26 37 63 32 Damphousaa, Mtl51 25 38 63 50 Lebeau, Mtl 51 23 40 63 16 Kurrl, LA 47 21 42 63 18 Janney, StL 49 10 53 63 10 Bradley, TB 50 32 211 61 68 Juneau, Boa 48 20 41 61 27 M8881ar, NYR 47 19 42 61 42 PONTE VEDRA. Fla. (AP) · Leading money winners on the PGA Tour th Northern Telecom Open, which ended Jan.: Tm Money 1. Howard Twitty 2 $216,000 2. Larry Mlza 2 $201,024 3. Davia Love Ill 2 $182,700 4. Jeff Maggart 2 $168,400 5. Joey Sindelar 2 $131,943 6. Paul Azlngar 2 $128,000 7. TomKna 1 $88,400 8. Mark O'Meara 2 $77,600 9. Nolan Henke 2 $58,720 10. Jim Gallagher, Jr. 2 $58,314 11. Michael Allen 1 $52,600 (tie) Robin Freeman 2 $52,800 (tie) Dudley Hart 2 $52,800 14. Brett Ogle 2 $51,679 15. BHI Glasson 2 $50,425 16. Kehh Claaowater 2 $49,800 17. Billy Andrada 2 $41,290 18. David Edwards 2 $37,465 19. Duffy Waldolf 2 $36,637 20. Fnad Funk 3 $36,265 21. John Flanneoy 2 $36,220 22. Corey Pavln 2 $34,465 23. Brtan Claar 2 $34,307 24. Robert Gamez 2 $34,140 25. Craig Parry 2 $33,214 26. Chip Back 2 $32,625 27. Wayne Levi 1 $31,200 28. John Cook 2 $31,000 (tie) Brad Faxon 1 $31,000 30. Lennie Clements 1 $29,700  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlelon WLPct. GB N-York 25 14 .641 N-Jeraay 24 17 .565 2 Boston 21 1g .525 4112 Orlando 18 17 .514 5 Philadelphia 16 22 .421 8112 Miami 12 26 .316 12 112 Washington 12 27 .306 13 Cantral Dlvlelon Chicago 27 13 .675 Cleveland 24 16 .600 3 Charlotte 18 19 .466 7112 Atlanta 19 21 .475 8 Indiana 19 21 .475 8 Detroh 17 22 .436 9 112 Mllwaukae 15 23 .3115 11 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldw..t Dlvlelon W L Pet. GB Utah 25 13 .656 San Antonio 24 13 .649 112 Houston 22 17 .564 3112 Denver 13 25 .342 12 Minnesota 7 28 .200 16 112 Dallas 3 33 .063 21 Pacific Dlvlalon Phoenix 28 8 .778 Portland 27 11 .711 2 sean1e 21 11 .111 2 LACIIppers 20 19 .513 9112 LALakers 20 19 .513 9112 Golden State19 20 .487 10 112 Sacramento 15 23 .395 14 Monday'a Garnea Atlanta 117, Sacramento 106 Phoenix 121, Detroit 119 Dan-102, Mlnneaota 97 Tuaaday'a Garnea Lata Gamea Not lnduded N-York 96, Philadelphia 110 N-Jersey 106, LA Lakera 91 Washington 104, Miami 102, OT Orlando 120, Atlanta 106 Houston at Mllwaukae, (n) Chicago at Dallas, (n} Cleveland at Utah, (n) Golden State • Portland, (n) Wadnaaday'a Garnea Indiana at Philadelphia. 7-:JIJ p.m. Sacramento at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Boaton at Detroit, 7-:JIJ p.m. Phoenix at Mlnneaota. 8-:JIJ p.m. San Antonio at Seattle, 10 p.m. Utah at LA ClpP&rs, 10-:JIJ p.m. Danvet at Golden State, 10:30 p.rn Thuraday'a Garnea Atlllnta at New York, 7:30p.m. Milwaukee a1 Miami, 7:30p.m. Orlando Ill Cleveland, 7:30p.m. LA Lakers at Indiana. 7:30p.m. Chicago at Houston, 8:30 p.m. N-Jersey at Denvet, 9 p.m.  NEW YORK (AP) ­NBA Individual scoring, !laid goal percenlage, rebounding and aaalat leaders through January 25: Scoring G FG FT Pta AvgJordan, Chi. 39 491 246 1272 32.6 Wlldna, Atl 26 275 204 793 28.3 K. Malone, Utah 36 363 317 1048 27.5 Munln, G.S. 39 416 159 1049 26.9 Barkley, Phoe. 35 325 238 921 26.3 Olajuwon, Hou. 39 3111 215 997 25.6 Robinson, S.A. 37 3011 275 895 24.2 O'Neal, Orl 34 306 187 799 23.5 Dumara, Oat. 36 333 163 691 23.4 Petrovic, N.J. 38 330 171 680 23.2 Ewing, N.Y. 36 346 171 884 22.7 Hardaway, G.S. 39 319 189 686 22.7 Johnson, Char. 37 325 162 826 22.3 Manning, LAC 39 337 166 860 22.1 Richmond, Sac. 38 307 164 816 21.5 Hornacek, PhN. 37 296 139 774 20.9 Miller, Ind. 40 269 238 831 20.8 Harper, Dall. 30 208 145 618 20.6 Lewis, Boa. 40 326 163 819 20.5 Grant, Wash. 37 313 120 746 20.2 Field Goal Parcantage FG FGA Pet Daugherty, Clev_ 232 399 .581 Brlckowskl, MH. 245 434 .565 O'Neal, 0~. 306 543 .564 Davia, Ind. 149 267 .556 Turner, 0~. 127 228 .557 Thorpe, Hou. 151 274 .551 Ceballos, Phoe. 157 285 .551 K. Malone, Utah 363 665 .546 Nance, Clev. 285 526 .542 Olajuwon, Hou. 391 733 .533 Rebounding G Off Del Tot AvgRodman, Oat. 29 189 391 560 19.3 O'Neai,Ort. 34 163 342 505 14.9 Wlllla,Atl. 38 151 334 485 12.8 Barkley, Phoe. 35 131 313 444 12.7 Olajuwon, Hou. 39 131 361 492 12.6 Robinson, S.A. 37 110 350 460 12.4 Ewing, N.Y. 38 106 357 463 12.2 Mutorrbo, Den. 38 135 319 454 11.9 K. Malone. Utah 38 114 336 450 11.8 Selkaly, MIa. 33 108 262 370 11.2 Aaalata G No Avg Stockton, Utah 38 484 12.7 Hardaway, G.S. 39 431 11.1 Boguea, Char. 37 357 9.6 Skiles, Ort. 34 316 9.3 Thomas, Oat. 38 320 8.9 Wllllama, Minn. 33 291 8.8 Anderson, N.J. 40 331 8.3 M. Jackson, LAC 39 322 8.3 Adams, Wash. 35 266 82 Prtce, Clev. 37 283 7.6  
7-12 4-4 18, Jlldcaon 9-1116-8 24, Liberty 0-5 0-0 0, ·  
Llchtl 1-3 0-0 2, Padl 5-11 6-11 18, Heatlnga 1-5 1-1  
3, Plummer 0-1 2-2 ~ Brooka 0-1 0-0 0, Werdann 0-0  
0-0 0.Tolala 36-81 26-34 102.  




MARY-CHAPIN CARPENTER 
D R T 


Including: , n11 \Uil'
Come On Come On 
THEM BONES/WOULD? DOWN IN A HOLE/ANGRY CHAIR I FEEL LUCKY 
Including: 
ROOSTER NOT TOO MUCH TO ASK 
(WITH SPECIAL GUEST JOE DIFFIE)' 
THE HARDWAY THE BUG 
•Joe DIHle appe•r• court..y of Epic Record• 
IUIJ\1111\ 
-
-...., 
The Hammes
CD $11.99 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus"
TAPE $7.99 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 -5 
SCREAMING 

shawn
TREES 
SWEET 
colvin 
OBLIVION 
Including: 
fat czty 
NEARLY LOST YOU 
Including: 
DOLLAR BILL 
ROUND OF BLUES SHADOW OF THE SEASON 
POLAROIDS I DON'T KNOW WHY 
lncludM bonua CO track: FOR CELEBRATIONS PAST 
~ 


Expires 1-31-93 

Wednesday, January 15,1993 The Observer 
page 15 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

Recycle please 
Grace hockey survives Stanford rally 
By TEDS PETERSON Sports Writer 
Grace Hall held off a furious second-half rally by Stanford in interhall hockey Monday, pre­vailing 5-4 in a key early-sea­son battle. With the victory, Grace moved to the top of League 1, with a 3-0 record. 
Grace's Dave Kisch scored three goals and goalie Tom Lis­chke made 15 saves to preserve what had earlier looked like a much easier victory. 
Grace jumped out to an early 4-0 lead, but the second half belonged to Stanford (2-1). Nevertheless, Grace's depth kept their lines fresh at the end, and that made the difference. 
Grace has been revitalized this year by three outstanding freshmen -Rob Bolton, John McKenna, and Pat Casey. Stanford, on the other hand, is relying on their experience, as they return most of last year's team, which qualified for the playoffs. 
In other IJ.eague 1 action, Keenan defeated Morrissey 4-2, Sunday night to improve their record to 2-1. Keenan, whose success this year has been keyed by the play of goalie Mike Vanderpoel, mky have problems with depth. They have only eight skaters on their roster. 
Dillon (1-1) also appears to be in the hunt, defeating Plan­ner 7-2 last week. They were led by the strong play of James Wilberding and goalie Christian Stein. Dillon captain Josh Kerwin hopes that his team's mix of youth and experience will lead them back to the play­offs, where they lost to Off­Campus in last year's champi­onship game. 
In League ~ play, Sorin has jumped out to the league lead with a 2-0 mark, defeating Ca­vanaugh 7-1 last week. Seniors Doug Montgomery and Jay Burke each scored three times to lead the team. Sorin's multi­dimensional offense and strong fan support will be major fac­tors in the Ice Otters' upcoming games. 
Alumni (1-0) downed Zahm on Sunda11:. 4-1, as Matt Cronin netted two goals while Mark McGrath and Bill Cooney each scored one. Alumni has a small roster, but most of the players are veterans. This could be Alumni's best squad in several years, but grueling matchups against Sorin and Fisher this week will serve as a true test. 
Fisher has also jumped out to a 1-0 mark in League 2, holding off St. Ed's 6-5 last week. Co-captain Rob Ganz put on a show, scoring five goals in the game. Fisher co-captain Matt Barents said that his young team made some fun­damental errors in the St. Ed's game, but this could be a dan­gerous squad if it rounds into shape by playoff time. 
Islanders explode to beat New Jersey 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. (AP) ­Benoit Hogue had two goals and two assists as the New York Islanders extended their unbeaten streak to a season­best five games with a 8-2 vic­tory Tuesday night over the New Jersey Devils. 
The offensive explosion made it easy for Islanders goaltender Mark Fitzpatrick -making his seventh straight start. Fitzpatrick made 22 saves, but faced only six shots after the first period as the Islanders continued their doimination of the Devils at Nassau Coliseum. 
The Islanders put the game away with a three-goal second period during which they out­shot the Devils 12-2 and took a 6-1lead. 
New York scored on its first two shots and lled 3-0 after a little more than nine minutes were gone. 
Hogue scored from the low slot at 2:36 after skating in on a 2-on-1 with Brian Mullen. Pierre Turgeon 'put a shot past Craig Billington from the slot at 4:07, and Hogue scored again from in front at 9:15. The Is­landers took only six shots to score their first three goals. 
QUEBEC4, BOSTON4 
QUEBEC (AP) -Owen Nolan's second goal of the game, with 5:06 remaining, earned the Quebec Nordiques a 4-4 tie with the Boston Bruins on Tuesday night. 
Nolan, who has 25 goals, 
scored both on the power play, a cat'egory in which the Nordiques lead the league. The tying goal came only 18 seconds after Boston's Grigori Panteleyev was sent off for hooking Curtis Leschyshyn. 
Both teams had at least three good scoring chances in overtime, including a breakaway on which Mats Sundin hit the goal post. 
Vladimir Ruzicka had two 
.. 
goals in the fir~t period for Boston, and Panteleyev also scored. The Bruins led 3-1 after 20 minutes. 
Nolan's first goal of the game, on a power play at 9:24 of the second period, began the Quebec comeback. Claue Lapointe tied the game 1:10 later. 
as co-founder of a trading com­"If he stays with it, he defi­pany that wili link Polish and nitely has the talent to do it American interests. He has (fence in the Olympics)," said 
WE I G H T WATCH E R s Wozniak 
at Work Here on Campus 
continued from page 20 served on the Board of Direc­Auriol. "He looks like he has tors for the Notre Dame Council taken the next step and is one
Information Meeting next president and compete in 
on International Business De­of our top leaders." 
Wednesday, January 27 the Olympics." 
velopment, assisting in research That next step will come this
Wozniak will fence for two
noon~ 12:30 
on the recently signed North weekend in New York as themore years in Europe as a
Foster Room, LaFortune 
American Free Trade team faces top-ranked
professional . He intends to go 
Agreement. Columbia University. Wozniak
Sessions will begin shortly to graduate school at Notre 
believes this meet will be the Y'
Open to students, staff and faculty Dame and return as an 
Yves Auriol, head coach of the key indicator for the remainderassistant fencing coach. 
women's fencing team and of the season.
For more information, call at 631 ~5389 Wozniak already has shown 
assistant for the men's, fore-"We may not be the strongest,
~========================1 his talents as an entrepreneur 
casts more success for Wozniak. but I feel we can do it." 
IRIS~otr~~SCENT FACULlY DINING ROOM 
Comedy Improv Troupe 
OPEN:
SHOW MONDAY -FRIDAY 
11:30 A.M. -1:00 P.M. Thursday, January 28 
9:00 p.tn. 

MODERATE PRICES 
LaFortune Ballrootn 
LARGE TABLES QUIET SURROUNDINGS 
Opening act: The Juggling Vespucci's 
LOCATED ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL
Admission: $1 


O'Neal
• 

MIAMI (AP) -When the horn sounded this time, the Miami Hurricanes were ready. 
The Hurricanes hit nine 3­point shots, including four during a 16-0 first-half run, and beat No. 22 Connecticut 80-65 Tuesday night. 
In an embarrassing loss to Pittsburgh on Saturday, Miami huddled too long following a timeout and left the Panthers alone on the court to make a game-tying layup in the final seconds. There were no such blunders against Connecticut, and the Hurricanes improved to 5-l0 overall and 3-5 in the Big East Conference. 
The Huskies fell to 9-5 and 4­
4. 
Sophomore center Constantin Popa led Miami with a career­high 21 points and 12 re­bounds. Freshman Steve Ed­wards added 18 points. 
Jake Morton sank a pair of 3­pointers and Edwards and Michael Gardner made one apiece as Miami turned a 7-7 
Wednesday, January 27,1993 
technical at halftime after con­ferring with referee John Clougherty. Brown grabbed Clougherty's arm. but the offi­cial pulled away from him and went to the locker room. 
At the start of the second half, with Kentucky leading 54-26, Travis Ford made two free throws on the technical to give the Wildcats (14-1 overall, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) a 30­point advantage. 
No. 5 MICHIGAN 72, OHIO STATE 62 

ANN AHBOR. Mich. (API ­Michigan held off a late Ohio State rally and sent the Buck­eyes to their fourth consecutive defeat Tuesday with a 72-62 victory. the Wolverines first in the last six regular-season meetings between the schools. A 3-pointer by Ohio State's Derek Anderson cut the Wolverines lead to 66-62 with 
1:11 left. but the Buckeyes (9-6, 2-4 Big Ten) never scored again. 


AP File Photo 

Kentucky's Jamal Mashburn scored 27 points Tuesday night as the Wildcats defeated LSU. 
Miami stuns UConn, Kentucky rolls 
TOP25 
tie into a 23-7 lead midway through the first half. The run was part of an eight-minute stretch in which the Huskies scored two points and missed 11 shots. 
Connecticut closed to 28-21, but Miami pulled out to a 40-23 lead early in the second half. Donyell Marshall scored seven consecutive points as the Huskies trimmed the margin to 52-45 with 11 minutes left. but Edwards and Gardner each hit a 3-pointer to help Miami re­gain a comfortable lead, 64-48. 
No. 4 KENTUCKY 105, LSU 67 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Jamal Mashburn scored 27 points to power fourth-ranked Kentucky to an easy 105-67 victory Tuesday night over LSU, which lost coach Dale Brown early in the second half on technical fouls. 
Brown picked up his first 

SENIORS Friday LtlllCh 
12-2 
Ho one prepares you lor the MCAT better than Kaplan. Our MCAT prep courae te.ac ....... you exactty what the t9!1t covers and the teat· taking skills you'll need to score your beat. We off.,.. live cl--, no.n. study not-, and audio review. P1ua, no one elM has • more 
t Your Club 
axtenaive MCAT resource library than Kaplan. 
KAPLAN 
must be 21 
The answer to the teat qu-tion. 


I 
Exciting matches mark Australian OJDen's final week
I I / 
Wednesday, January 27,1993 The Observer page 17 
Edberg or Bergstrom? Tough choice for Swedish fans 
MELBOLHNE, Australia (AP) -The always-crazy Swedish fans will be truly schizophrenic. Do they cheer for long-time hero Stefan Edberg or go for underdog Christian Bergstrom? 
The two Swedes will be facing ofT in the men's quarterfinals at the Australian Open on Wednesday, a day that also will see top-seeded Jim Courier play No. 7 Petr Korda, No. 3 Pete Sampras meet unseeded Brett Steven and No. 11 Guy Forget take on No. 14 Michael Stich. 
The Edberg-Bergstrom match will test the allegiance of the Swedish fans who have become a very vocal institution here. In fact, with their faces painted in the blue-and-yellow national colors, some say they should be institutionalized. 
They can energize compatri­ots at crucial times or get on opposing players' nerves with their chanting, singing and rhythmic clapping. Amos Mansdorf of Israel glared at them after they irritated him in the deciding fourth-set tiebreaker against Edberg last week. 
It's anybody's guess who they'll side with this time ­second-seeded Edberg, who's nursing a bad back while seeking his third Austalian Open singles title, or giant­killer Bergstrom, who counts No. 8 Ivan Lend! and No. 10 Wayne Ferreira among his four victims so far. 
"I guess they will sing a few songs for Stefan and a few songs for me, so that'll be pretty fair, I think," Bergstrom said. 
While there's concern about 
Edberg's back, despite his quick, painless dispatch of France's Arnaud Boetsch in the last round, Bergstrom figures he's got a shot no matter what shape his opponent's in. 
"l think I have a shot of beat­ing him even if he's up to his biggest standard," Bergstrom said. "I don't think many people .would bet on me, but I'm going to enjoy the next match against him. Anything can happen on a court." 
Sampras also is nursing nag­ging injuries -shin splints and blisters on the bottoms of his feet -that he attributes to the soft Rebound Ace surface. But as the American Davis Cup star hoped during a warmup tour­nament, he seems to be peak­ing at just the right time. 
He swept No. 13 MaliVai Washington in the last round in three sets, ripping a dozen aces, and says he is playing better each match. 
"I feel pretty good," Sampras said. "Even though I'm a bit stiff here and there, and my feet are a bit sore, there's a lot of adrenalin out there and you just have to work through it." 
His next opponent is Steven, a New Zealand native and former Southern Methodist University star ranked 71st in the world who has had to fight hard in each round of his first Grand Slam event. 
Steven's last match. against Australia's Richard Fromberg, lasted a grueling 4 1/2 hours. and he had to battle back from a 5-2 deficit in the final set by staving off two match points and taking six of the last seven games. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
·Please submit a one-page personal statement to ]ahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. Thursday, January 28. Contact Jahnelle at 631-4540 for more information. 

Steffi Graf got some revenge for her Olympic loss to Jennifer Capriati, defeating the youngster in the Australian Open. 
Graf gets revenge for Olympic loss to Capriati • 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Jennifer Capriati and Mary Joe Fernandez, the last remain­ing American women in the Australian Open, learned the same painful lesson today. 
The seventh-seeded Capriati led by a break in each set of her quarterfinal match against No. 2 Steffi Graf of Germany, only to lose 7-5, 6-2. No. 5 Fernandez suffered the same fate in falling to No. 4 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario of Spain 7-5, 6-4. 
That set up one semifinal match Thursday between Graf and Sanchez Vicario. The other pairing was decided in later matches. 
The Capriati-Graf confronta­tion, a rematch of the gold­medal match that the American 16-year-old won last year at the Barcelona Olympics, was the feature of the day with two of the game's hardest hitters. Capriati appeared to wear down as she was forced to run from corner to corner. 
"That was pretty hard," she 
Awards 
continued from page 20 
touch with each other and with future teams." 
The returning players are enjoying Notre Dame's success as much as the seniors, but they want the season to stay with them in another way. They are looking forward to building on the progress the Irish made this year. Karlan hopes the squad's winning ways will lead the 1993 Irish to a beginning similar .to this sea­son's 7-0 start. 
Short on Cash? 
borrow jrorn the 
Morrissey Loan Fund 
30 Day Loan 1% Interest S10-$250 Loan Amount 
Hours: Monday-Friday  1s.t Floor LaFortune  
I 1:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.  O'Hara Lounge  
631-8727  

said. "The only1 time I've ever hit that hard was against Mon­ica (Seles) two years ago at the 
U.S. Open. It was real intense." 
Capriati came out strong, breaking serv,e in the first game. But Graf -cheered by an entire section of German fans -rebounded to even the score at 2-2 when Capriali hit four balls into the net. 
The set appea~ed to be head­ing for a tiebreaker with Capriati serving at 5-6 when Graf elevated her play a notch. She stroked a forehand cross­court service return for a win­ner, then uncharacteristically charged the net three times, winning each point. 
Capriati, showing the come­back ability she demonstrated so well in h~r last three matches, broke Graf to go ahead 2-1 in the' second set, but the German ran off the next five games to finish dff the match. 
"I think it was a really good match, especially in the first 
"One of the most important things we did was start off re­ally strong," Kadan said of that string, which inCluded the Big Four Classic championship. "We came out fired up and stayed that way." 
The Irish also put together winning streaks of eight, five, and three (three times) during the year. 
Notre Dame has enough re­turning talent to make contin­ued success very likely. Karlan and Peters will be joined by ju­nior middle blocker Molly Stark, sophomor~ outside hitter Nicole Coates, ~nd first-year players Brett Hensel and Shannon Tuttle, all of whom contributed heavily to Notre Dame's outstanding season. 
Like all of her players, Irish head coach Debbie Brown is thrilled with thi~ season's suc­cess. And like per returnees, 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Mike Kluck! . Love, Morh, Dad, Mark, Brian, Sue, Karen, and Chris 

set," Graf said. "There weren't really many mistakes. It was very close. We both went for our shots. The way she is going for her shots, the way she's improved, she's tough. 
"I kept her running around. She was very tired by the be­ginning of the second set. It was just impossible for her to keep hitting like that constantly." 
Capriati had 41 forced errors to Graf's 17, revealing the pressure that Graf kept her under. 
Capriati, who was virtually in tears after her loss here last year, was much brighter this time, calling it her New Year's resolution. 
"I was just really down last year," Capriati "said. ''I'm very happy with my game and how I have played for the last three weeks. This year, I thought to myself from the beginning, if you lose it's OK. Don't get upset. Just keep working hard. She played great. She had ayt answer for everything." 
she anticipates reaping t I' be.1efits of that success in i ' corn!ng season. 
"We have a good core comi1 back, ard it's very importal. that they we had post-seasm: experiene,_,, Brown said. 
After losing this season's first­round NCAA match to Penn State, Brown hopes to expand that ·.perience into future po&. ason success. This season 'lhould stay with the whole program as a "foundation on which to build a perennial national power. 
"We want our players to have the mindset that this is a habit; our season isn't over in November, it's over in Decem­ber," the Mideast Region Coach of the Year explained. "This is a step in the right direction, toward establishing ourselves as one of the top programs in the nation." 


page 18 The Observer Wednesday, January 27,1993 

• Slocum: Lies hurt recruiting 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) -Two top recruits have backed off oral commitments to Texas A&M and coach R.C. Slocum says rival coaches are hurting his school's recruiting by lying about an internal in­vestigation. 
The investigation has probed allegations of improper pay­ments to Texas A&M players. Sloeurn said rival coaches have scared away recruits from A&M with claims that Aggie coaches won't be baek next season and that A&M will go on probation. "Instead of selling the benefits of their program and the opportunities of their program, they have concentrated a big part of their recruiting effort into creating a hypothetical, 

negative situation at A&M," Slocum said. 
Slocum's comments Monday to the Bryan-College Station Eagle carne a day after two top recruits backed off oral com­mitments. 
Linebacker Bryan Johnson of Jersey Village High School in Houston switched to Texas, and Dallas Bishop Lynch High School offensive lineman David Davis changed to Miami, both citing concerns about the in­vestigation. 
"I see a bunch of young people that are being blatantly lied to by college coaches," Slocum said. "They're causing kids to make lifelong decisions based on lies. It's a terribly unfortu­
nate thing for these young peo­ple." Slocum would not identify the schools involved. So far, three top recruits re­main committed to the Aggies. 
A story by The Dallas Morning News led to an internal investi­gation that found that four A&M football players were paid by booster Warren Gilbert for work not performed. The play­ers were declared ineligible and did not play in the Cotton Bowl, but they have returned to school for the spring semester and A&M officials will consider requesting their reinstatement on an individual basis. 
A&M investigators soon will complete their probe and report the results to the NCAA. 
· ...~ .-..<,.. Photo courtesy of Texas A&M Sports Information Texas A&M coach R.C. Slocum says that opposing coaches are lying to keep recruits from signing with the Aggies. 
Willie Clark leaves school, but he's expected to return 
Observer Staff Report 
Willie Clark's mystery contin­ues to grow. 
~----......, 
The junior defensive back/tailback, did not enroll for classes this semester. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz and K a t e Halischak, di­rector of Clark academic services could not comment on the reasons for his decision not to return for the spring semester. But both did express the belief that Clark 
recycle please 
ACourse In 
Economics. 

Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality 
,-------l~-------]1-------l 
:$1.00 Off: :$5.00 Off: :200/o Off : 
: Haircut : : Perm ::An Haircarel 
I I I II I 
1 With student I.D 1 With student I.D 1 1 W1th student LD 1 No double d•scounls 1 No double d1scounts No double discounts 
I reg. $8.95 I I I I I I MasterCuts I I MasterCuts I I MasterCuts I
L_______ JL _______JL _______J 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Reg•s CorPOrlltOn 1992 
277-3770 
would return to Notre Dame. In order to be eligible to play football next season, he will have to attend summer school. 
As the semester began, Clark was expected to be in a Notre Dame track uniform and back on the football field for spring practice. Now, Clark will miss the spring workouts for the second consecutive year. Last season, he sat out in order to concentrate on academics. 
A broken bone in his right hand forced Clark to sit out all but one game of the 1992 foot­ball season. There was some question about exactly how Clark would fit into the team's plans next season and now the picture is even cloudier. 
Today 
Wednesday, January 27, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\-\MM ... I PIJT 1\-\t.M DOWt\ .. .. I n\o\JGI-\"1 11-\E.'i WE.R~ 
W\\ERE ARt. M~ GLA~'St.S ? 
l WE\o.l\ TO GH M~ I?.COK .... I TOll) CA.l\Jit-.1. TO SI-\O'Jt.l 1\-\t. WA.ll( ... 
• 
With no one looking, Konor would secretly sprinkle on a few sprouts. 
r-------~---------,r---------------~,. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


52 PoWer-operated dollies 57 Salt's "down" 61 Emulate Cuomo 62 Observes _. 63 Put away 64 Funt's directive 65 Gardner of whodunits 66Tied 67 Starchy tubers 68 Placebos 69 Fender bender 
DOWN 
1 Jacob's substituted bride 
2 Kon-Tiki Museum site 3 Neighbor of St.-Li) 4 Twain character 5 Michener's 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1-Ness 5 Kind of cracker 9 Golf-shoe piece 
14 Biblical trader 15 Lulu 16 Handel's 
birthplace 11 Sir ~-­
Guinness 18 River in Zaire 19 Old womanish 20 Emulate a nene 21 Acts wildly or 
angrily 23 Datum 25 Frances of films 26Dwell 29 Letter from 
Greece 31 File 
35 Boston Garden, e.g. 36~~Valley, 
Calif. 38 Another Greek 
letter 39 Lags 42 Charged 
particle 43 Public storehouse 44 One way to get off base 45Actress Barrymore 
47Mount-, Nev. peak 48--thecat 
(dared) 49 Enzyme 51 Unit of loudness 
"The-" 6--atime 
(singly) 7 Sandwich shop a War god 9 Man on a 
$10,000 bill 10 Spear carrier 11 Phillies' former manager 
••~tmU!~:+.::,..-. r.:-t.;-;t;::tt;;-1 12 .._want for midnight oil 36 Denoting two 37 Actress Hayes 40 Manipulate a 
24 Saw rudder 

41 Freed 54 Lay an egg 
46 Interlace 55 Applies 
48 Foremen 56 Game fish 50 Infuse 58 Bathe 51 Metal for tubing 
59 Where to put 52 Red figure your dough 53 Marie Wilson so"Down­role McGinty ..." 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1216 
26 Violent; furious 27 Boo-boo 28 Net 29 Full of energy 30 Fill up 32 Of a region 33 Figaro's 
specialty 34 Burned 

-
:::1 
...1 
zo 
~­
-~o
::;,Z ....JUJ 
<!.(f)
iHl 
THURSDAY NIGHT 
The Place to Be for the Class of '93 
9--2 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
At Your Club 
12--2 
Must Be 21 
THE 
mr
()m~
zc
-s::
Oz
JJ_ 
r-
.,... 
c 
all 


... 
Sports 
-
page 20 
BRIAN KUBICKI 
Playing Around 
Mavericks on pace to be the NBA's worst ever 
The prospect of making the record books is a frightening and humiliating thought for the Dallas Mavericks. They are currently 3-33 and are on pace to become the worst team in NBA history, a distinction that for the moment belongs to the 1972-73 Philadelphia 76ers (9-73). 
In Dallas, those moments are fragile. Only six seasons ago the Mavs had taken the Los Angeles Lakers, the eventual NBA champions, to seven games in the Western Conference semifinals. 
'1\vo seasons after that, they posted a 47-35 record. At that point it seemed they had the personnel and the draft picks to make a run at a championship. They had a drug-free Hoy Tarpley at forward and guards Holando Blackman and Derek Harper in their prime. 
They decided to trade their draft picks and came up with Lafayette "Fat" Lever from Denver and Hodney McCray from Sacramento. The only problem they encountered was the loss of free agent Sam Perkins, but with the acquisition of Alex English, Dallas seemed to have filled that gap. 
They started that season by winning four of their first five games. Then came the start of their demise. Lever and Tarpley sufTered season ending in­juries. 
Since that time, their draft picks, Handy White and Doug Smith, both of whom were expected to produce by many NBA scouts, have failed to pan out. Last year's pick, Jimmy Jackson from Ohio State refused even the opportunity to contribute, as well as the $7 million that the Mavs were will­ing to pay up front for his presence on the team. 
How they actually got to be this bad is not a major concern for the Mavs at this point in the season. Number one on the list of goals for Dallas is now to win ten games. 
I havn some ideas how they can aceomplish this, but most of them consist of variou!'; forms of cheating that range from paying off the refs to breaking one of the Ten Com­mandments. The latter is probably ill­advised, since it may take a small mirade from God for the Mavs to win ten games, and God takes those decrees pretty seriously. 
It is also said that God helps those who help themselves. In other words, the Mavs won't get their miracle. Even if they don't get their tenth victory, Dallas will get something from this season. 
They will get character and wisdom. There are, however, no guarantees. Injuries can bring the demise of even the most promising teams. 
Oh yeah... they'll also get a place in the mcord books. 
';iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
INSIDE SPORTS 
Wednesday, January 27,1993 

Notre Dame volleyball reaping rewards 
The Observer/Jake Peters Notre Dame's Jessica Fiebelkorn earned second-team GTE Academic all-America honors and was named to the all-Midwest Region second team. 
Irish hope dream season a stepping stone to future success 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
A giant step forward. A building block. A dream season. All of the above. 
No matter how the members of the 1992 Notre Dame women's volleyball team look back on this year, there is a common feeling: one way or another, it will stay with them. 
The Irish recently received several post-season awards recognizing their successful 1992 campaign. Senior middle blocker Jessica Fiebelkorn was named GTE Academic All-America second team, and Fiebelkorn, junior setter Janelle Karlan, and sophomore outside hitter Christy Peters were named second team All-Mideast Region by the American Volleyball Coaches' Asso­ciation. 
In leading the Notre Dame squad with 474 digs, Fiebelkorn broke her own sin­gle-season school record and established the new career mark at 1311. Ranking second on the all-time kill list with 1289, she is one of only two players in Irish history to record over 1,000 kills and 1,000 digs. 
Peters led the team in kills and was second in digs, while Karlan set the Notre Dame ca­reer record for assists in only her third seajon. The awards add luster to an already ste11ar Irish season. 
The graduating seniors con­sider this season the culmina­tion of four years of trials and triumphs, all dedicated to a single goal: a berth in the NCAA Tournament. The Irish racked up a 30-8 record and realized their aspirations, earning the fifth seed in the NCAA Mideast Regional. 
"It was great to fulfill our main goal for our whole four years here, and to walk into the packed gym at (first round NCAA host) Penn State," ex­plained team captain Alicia Turner. "It was something we had never experienced before. It wasn't just another game; it was the top 32 teams in the country, and we were a part of it." 
For the seniors, 1992 was definitely a dream season, especially after suffering through a coaching contro­versy and a 9-27 record two years ago. Besides winning 30 games for only the second time in school history, the Irish copped their second straight Midwestern Collegiate Conference title with a 7-0 mark and swept through the conference tournament. They topped ranked opponents Kentucky, New Mexico, and Hawaii, defeating the latter two squads in their home gyms. 
The part that will stay with Turner most, however, is the group that helped build the dream. 
"I think the friendships are. the most memorable things you get out of any season," Turner said. "These are the closest' friends I've made. {The seniors) will keep in 
see AWARDS/page 17 

Wozniak hopes to make a mark on U.S. Olympic fencing team 
By TONY POTTINGER 
Sports Writer 
In Greg Wozniak's junior year of high school, his goal was to come to the United States and learn the English language well enough to attend college 
there. 
Now, the junior from Poland has his eyes set on helping his Notre Dame fencing team win the NCAA title and has high hopes of representing the United 

States in the 1996 Wozniak games in Atlanta. 
The past several years have seen Wozniak log thousands of miles and accrue numerous honors as both a fencer and a student. Emigrating from his native Poland to the United States and settling in Chicago, Wozniak is an All-American candidate and has earned the position of captain of the Notre Dame team. 
Assistant coach Edward Korfanty says that Wozniak deserves a lot of credit for t h e s u c c e s s of the I r i s h and i s q u i t e optimistic of the team's post-season 
~,..,.,.,.,.,.._,,.,...-~.,....,..-.,...,,_..,....,......,._.....,.._ __, potential. "We should be in the top four, perhaps higher, in the NCAA," Korfanty said. Wozniak placed ninth in the NCAA fi­nals as a freshman, missing All­American status by one place. He has put a disappointing sophomore season behind him. This season he is 23­

•laml defeats UConn 2, falling only to the number-one and 
number-two fencers in 'the nation by a '---------......;.;;;=......,.;;.;;...~==~ combined total of three points. 

He placed third in this season's Penn State Open, which featured approximately 80 of the nation's top fencers. He has also qualified to represent the U.S. in the World Cup. 
Wozniak admits that life at Notre Dame has been somewhat of a culture shock for him. Accustomed to the highly pres­surized competition of fencing in Europe, he has found the Catholic character and a more relaxed atmosphere for athletes at Notre Dame ideal for his needs. In fact, he says, fencing is so relati~ely un­known in America that when he introduces himself to new people, they often ask if he "puts fences around houses." 
An equally significant transition for him has been the academic atmosphere of Notre Dame. 
"In Poland one is afraid of the teacher," he said. "Students there are not friends with the professors. Here the professors are there for you." 
Now, Wozniak is looking ahead to the rest of the season and to life after college. Not one to let his own success go to his head, Wozniak praises teamates Per Johnsson, Geoff Pechinsky, and Brian Ray. 
"If I have to choose between team victory and individual victory, I go for the team," he said. 
Speaking of the prospects of the team in nationals, he says, "we can surprise everyone." 
After getting his degree in economics, Wozniak hopes to obtain his U.S. citizenship so that he can "vote for the 
see WOZNIAK!page 15 


