The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 102 MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NEW YORK (AP) -The FBI confirmed Sunday that a bomb caused the explosion at the World Trade Center, and spec­ulation on possible suspects ranged from militants from the former Yugoslavia to foreign drug dealers. 
• Investigation I page 6 
Also Sunday, a Port Authority worker who had been reported missing since Friday's explosion was accounted for when he was found safe outside the blast area. He was unaware anyone had been looking for him. 
One other Port Authority worker remained missing in the wake of the explosion that killed five people and injured more than 1,000. 
Meanwhile. a shaken city beefed up security at airports and public buildings. 
"Every airport, every public building has now heightened security," Gov. Mario Cuomo said. "If. God forbid, it is terror­ist-related, then it is not a ter­rorist attack on New York and 
World Trade Center 
~xplosion 

D•maoe: 

Blast caused ceiling t<i collap$8 in underground oommuter PATH train Fire to World Trade Center One end both towers. 1 ()(Hoot to 200-foot hole was blown Jtrto the ground. · Some windows smashed by people desperate for .alr. 
o..d: five 
lnJur.ci: 

More than 1 ,000 1 5 Injured When bomb went off, the rest suffered smoke Inhalation or exhaustion. 35 polloe offloers, 44 firefighters and 1. EMS worker. 
Mlulng: Two Port Authority employees. 
Firelight•,.. reapondlng: 

Equivalent to a 16-alarm fire (150 units, 750 firefighters). · 
Ewcuated: Most of the 55,000 Within three 


AP/Pajj Grange 
New Jersey but on the whole United States." 
Officials could only speculate about who caused the blast. which rocked the 110-story twin towers with earthquake-like force. Officials said the complex would be closed for more than a week until it can -be deemed safe. 
"We don't know if this was one insane individual ... some­one with a trunkload of plas­tique, or a well-thought out, so­phisticated attack," Cuomo said. 
"A lot of people have been laid off recently," said James Fox, head of the FBI's New York office. "You've got some drug dealers upset with the U.S. government. it could be terrorists upset for other causes. There are just so many possibilities." 
But Fox said agency experts had determined that a bomb was definitely the cause. 
"We are prepared to say at this time that it definitely was a bomb, in the opinion of the FBI," he said. 
Chemists found traces of ex­plosive residue in the rubble on the perimeter of the blast site, Fox said. The composition of the explosive was not identified. 

SMC Church of Loretto unveiled and rededicated in ceremony 
Ceremony unites torn community 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Assistant News Editor 
After an outpouring of emo­tions over the proposed renovation of the Church of Loretto last year. a torn community came together Saturday to rededicate the new Chureh. 
Sisters of the Holy Cross. students. alumnae and members of the South Bend community once again worshipped in the Chureh that has been closed since the summer. 
The words "rejoice, unite and strengthen" were used throughout the ceremony as the community now attempts to come together peacefully after more than a year of conflict between those who felt outraged by the project and earnest supporters. 
Older sisters who were un­able to walk in the procession waited outside the door in Saint Mary's Convent. Students from the Adopt-a­Nun program waited with many of the sisters holding their hands in moral support as they awaited the unveiling of a "new" Loretto. 
There was an anticipation in the air as those who gathered for the ceremony waited for the keys to be handed over and the doors to open. 
Many of the Sisters are just happy that the ordeal is over, and they are ready to unite together once again. they said. 
"The people are the ones that are important." said one Holy Cross sister who does not like the renovated Church. "It's important that we come together and bridge the gap and worship together." 
She said that the Church renovation addressed architectural concerns, but 
see REACTION I page 4 


By JENNIFER HABAYCH 
Assistant News Editor 

After over a year of contro­versy concerning the renovation of the Church of Loretto, the newly renovated Church was unveiled and rededicated in a Saturday morning ceremony. 
The two and a half hour Dedi­cation of a Church Ritual began with a procession from the Au­gusta Chapel to the side Church door. It was at this entrance that the keys were symbolically handed over from those in­volved in the renovation to Sis­ter Catherine O'Brien. The Church was then opened to the community to enter the "new" church. 
The ceremony also included an anointing of the altar and the new columns of the church with oil, an incensation of the church and a lighting of the al­tar and the church. 
Sister Corona Cassiday said in her homily that the dedication was a time of celebration. "It is time to celebrate the birth of a church ... a Church is born, rejoice." She continued by saying that the Church is not the building, but it the people within it. "We are the Church. We are the one bond of unity that reaches outward." conform to the 1978 U.S. Bish­

The Church was filled to ca­ops' Committee on Liturgy re­pacity for the long awaited cer­port entitled "Environment and emony that ended the contro­Art in Catholic Worship." versy that began in July of 1991 Churches built before the re­when the original plan was port were not required to con­unveiled to the Sisters of the form to the new standards. Holy Cross at their Sesqui­After alterations to the origi­centennial. nal plan and the unanticipated 
The Holy Cross order decided controversy it stirred, the ren­to renovate the Church to ovation, slated to begin in 
November 1991. began this past August. 
The completed renovation in­cluded the addition of a bap­tismal font, a new lightifig and sound system, and a tabernacle and Blessed Sacrament Chapel. 
Other changes included the removal of pews which were 
see CHURCH I page 4 

O'Meara: Schools should match volunteers with needy 

By MARA DIVIS 
News Writer 

Because of President Clinton's National Service Trust proposal, universities need to find realistic ways of matching student volunteers with needy communities, according to Uni­versity Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
O'Meara recently joined other university presidents and provosts, as well as congres­sional representatives and members of Clinton's transition team. to discuss how service can become a part of an under­graduate education. and espe­cially how it can be required as a method of paying off student government loans. 
He said the discussions served as a way for Clinton to learn about the positions the universities are in and how students volunteer now. 
Clinton's proposed fund would allow college students to pay for part of their educations by participating in community service programs. 
"They (the transition team) were sounding off." he said. "It was for us to respond, and we were willing and eager to re­spond. Nothing specific was de­cided on at all, nor should it have been." 
The forum considered the idea of requiring all students to volunteer or perform commu­nity service, re.gardless of fi­nancial aid status. However. service stems from the idea of volunteering, and to require students to volunteer is in turn negating their volunteerism, O'Meara said. 
"Different people have to de­velop in different ways," he said. "Students should be en­couraged to volunteer. If you require it, it's not volunteering." 
Examining how universities can apply volunteerism to their programs could be helped by an infrastructure of service within 
the universities. O'Meara said. Programs such as the Notre Dame's Center. for Social Concerns and the Alumni Association devote themselves to service and volunteerism, allowing students an organized approach to service. 
But not all schools have such structured programs, and the difficulty lies in providing a standard program in which students can work. 
There is difficulty in Notre Dame students working through unstructured service in the South Bend community schools, for example, O'Meara said. When students serve as tutors. an organized system must be 
see O'MEARA I page 4 





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
• WASH NGTON -The national service program President Clinton plans to unveil today. is a pilot for his ambitious college aid initiative, designed to offer a modest 1,000 slots this summer but expanding to as many as 150,000 by 1997. Under the program, students could perform national service right after high school and then borrow for college, or borrow first and pay the loans off with one year of service for every two years of assistance. Initially, the program would offer an alternative to only a small portion of the 5 mill.ion students getting some form of college aid annually. As It expands, the program would allow students who choose not to enter national service to borrow from a government trust fund and pay the loan back through payroll deductions taken at tax time. Although the concept of national service is widely praised, some critics do not believe the government should try to force service on youth in return for college aid. Some labor unions also are wary of the idea because they fear the service jobs will take away public employee positions. 
INDIANA 
Teen Kills Parents Police Sa 
• PIERCETON, Ind. -A 14-year-old boy confessed Sunday to killing his parents with a 12-gauge shotgun, Kosciusko County Sheriff Alan Rovenstine said. It was not immediately clear why the boy, whose name was withheld because of his age, shot Joby Ousley, 43, and Bonnie Ousley, 43, in their home south of Pierceton, Hovenstine said. They had been shot several times, including to the head, Rovenstine said. The teen, an eighth-grader at ~hit~o Con.u_nunity School, was held overnight at a JUVemle facility. The prosecutor would decide Monday morning what charges to file and where to proceed with the case, the sheriff said. It appeared there was no single incident that provoked the attaek and that the boy had not been getting along with his parents for several months, Rovenstine said. 

• SA~D~ORN, Ind. -Vandalism at a PSI Energy substatiOn m northeast Knox County left more than 450 customers without power or heat for more than 18 hours Sunday, a spokesman for the utility said. Somebody apparently broke onto the grounds of the substation, l?cated on state road 159 near the Knox-Greene county !me, early last week and drained oil from the transformers, PSI spokesman Robert Miller said. "The fence was. cut and a vandal entered, evidently sometime before last Thursday and opened the valves," he said. The leak was slow, and didn't cause any problems until about 
1:15 a.m. EST Sunday when 451 homes in Sandborn and Westphalia in Knox County and Marco in Greene County lost power, Miller said. Power wasn't restored until about 7:15p.m., he said. 
• 
Holy Cross Associates program will hold an in­and South dining halls. Don't miss the corn puppies, formational session for HCA domestic program this curly fries, Italian sausage, hot pretzels, taffy apples, evening at 7 p.m. at the CSC. Information will be given elephant ears and much, much more! out about the program, applications, and placements available. Former associates will be on hand to share • Freshmen! Sophomore Literary Festival needs their experiences in HCA. All are welcome to attend. enthusiastic people for next year's committee. Ap­

plications are available in the SUB office (2nd floor 

• 
Circus Lunch, the greatest lunch on earth, will be LaFortune Student Center) and are due this Friday. presented tomorrow by the NO food services in North 


YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 290,586,450 +0.70 to 244.08 S&P COMPOSITE + 1.04 to 443.38 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +5.67 to 3,370.81

UNCHANGED 566 

GOLD 
-$2.90 to $331.10 /oz 
SILVER 

-$0.057 to $3.582 /oz 
• 
In 1781: The Articles of Confederation were adopted by the Continental Congress. 

• 
In 1932: The infant son of Charles Lindbergh was kidnapped from the family's home near Hopewell, N.J. 

• 
In 1956: The University of Alabama ousted Autherine Lucy, a Black, saying she made libelous accusations. 

• 
In 1961: The Peace Corps was established. 

• 
In 1981: Irish Republican Army member Bobby Sands began a hunger strike at the Maze Prison in Northern Ireland· he died 65 days later. ' 

• 
In 1992: Sen. Brock Adams abandoned his re-election bid after eight women accused him of sexual abuse and harassment. 


Monday, March 1 , 1993 The Observer page 3 


By MICHAEL O'HARA News Writer 
Braving freezing tempera­tures and sub-freezing wind chill, the residents of Morrissey Manor ran their second annual Polar Run on Saturday. 
Begun last year as a response to the swim team bus accident, the annual event raises money for financial aid, in particular for funds established in mem­ory of the two swimmers who died in the accident, Meghan Beeler and Colleen Ilipp. 
"It is important to stress the financial aid," said Father Joe Ross, rector of Morrissey, "and that students are trying to do something about that." 
Junior Bill Merritt, one of the race organizers, also considers the raising of financial aid im­portant. 
"It continues this year as a fun way to raise money for fi­nancial aid that is much needed, especially on this cam­pus. Every year this University 
Photo Courtesy of Tyler Farmer Fingerpainted residents of Morrissey Manor participate in their second annual Polar Run. The event raises money for financial aid, in memory 
of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp. 
is unable to attract or continue to keep students who would love to live and learn under the golden dome, but cannot be­cause of the high cost of tu­ition," Merritt said. "We hope that by donating to this fund, others will be able to enjoy what we live every day." 
According to Ross, this year's event appears to be a greater success than.last year, although little has changed. 
"The run has pretty much 

remained the same as last year," Ross said. "We expanded our collecting efforts." 
This year, instead of simply collecting within Morrissey, some residents went to each dorm asking for donations. 
"We went to door-to-door at every dorm on campus," Merritt said. 
This year's totals appear to be much greater than last year's. Merritt estimated the total at around $3000. 
"We realize something needs to be done," he said. "In a way we are helping ourselves." 
Ross said there were two main items that make this event important. 
"It helps raise money for fi­nancial aid, it helps us all be more generous," he said. "Also it is a fun opportunity which helps people come together and build friendships and memories." 
Run participant Larry Patron, agreed. "The Polar Run is something I can tell my grandkids about," he said. 
Merritt also noted the benefits of the Polar Run. "It gives people a chance to think of others," he said. "It takes some effort, but since it is a fun event, it is easier." 
"We appreciate everyone who gave money and those who came out to support us," Mer­ritt said. "We felt we should do something for them [Beeler and Hipp]. It's good to do something for a good cause." 
Club Column 
FEBRUARY 22, 1993 

1) All clubs, budgeting and registration packets are available and ar 
due March 3. They've been put into your mailboxes on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. Social service groups now have mailboxes outside the CCC Office (206 LaFortune). If you did not receive a packet, stop by the CCC office during the posted office hours. Questions, call the Clu Coordination Council @ 631-4078 or Jennifer Blanchet @ 634-4975. Remember to check your mailboxes. 
2) Last day to access all club funds is April 15, plan accordingly See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 3)Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will hold elections for officers on Tuesday, March 2 in Lafortune's Montgomery Theater at 7 
p.m. Be there and voice your opinion. 
4) The Northern Ireland Awareness presents Mairead Keane, a Sein Fein representative. She will speak on "Prospects for Peace in Northern Ireland," Please plan to come hear her Tuesday, March 2, 1993 at 7:45 p.m. in room 114 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 


server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 

Assistant Systems Manager 
Applicants should have Apple Macintosh and computer networking experience. Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Patrick Barth by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 3. Contact Patrick at 1-7471 for more information. 
Haney: Civil Rights Act will lead to increasedJitigation 
By AMY MARK News Writer 
More sexual harassment liti­gation will occur because of the Civil Rights Act of 1991, said Marian Haney, speaking on "Litigation of a Sexual Harass­ment Case: Post Civil Rights Act of 1991" on Friday. 
Since the 1980s, sexual ha­rassment cases have jumped significantly. Title VII of the act clearly defines sexual harass­ment as a form of sexual dis­crimination, Haney said. 
Sexual harassment is defined in two ways: quid pro quo, in which an offender extorts sex­ual consideration from the claimant to secure a job or position; or hostile environment, where conditions of the environment cause emotional distress or harm to the claimant. 
If a person seeks damages after sexual harassment occurs, typically there is a move for summary judgment. If no summary judgment is made, Haney suggested that the pur­ported offender try to settle out of court. 
With the acceptance of hostile environment as a form of ha­rassment, compensation and damages can reach enormous sums, even if no physical dam­age or economic loss to the claimant occurs, Haney said. 
In addition, because most 
cases will be a question of which party has a more credi­ble story, "cases will be brought by persons who have been and not been sexually ha­rassed...persons who want to find out how much money they can collect," she said. 
Most courts view sexual ha­rassment from the perspective of a "reasonable woman," Haney said. Studies show that 50-80 percent of women have experienced some form in the workplace. 
However, sexual harassment is not limited to women, Haney said. It often occurs in gender hierarchies within a company, with men or women being in superior positions over the em­ployee. 
Haney recommended pre­vention for avoiding sexual ha­rassment cases to avoid legal fees, drawn-out court cases, and costly damages. Compa­nies should have a clearly de­fined sexual harassment policy and should educate employees on sexual discrimination issues, Haney said. 
"Obviously, sexual harass­ment should be eliminated," Haney said. "It is far easier and less costly to prevent it than to litigate it." 
Haney's presentation was part of the Notre Dame Law Review's 1993 Symposium. 

ATTENTION: CINCINNATI AREA STUDENTS 
The 1993 Xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Classes &



!CLUB 
Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate &graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts &Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies &Social Sciences. Session dates: May 17-June 24 &July 6 -August 12 can or write:
Juniors! 
X\VIEK
Applu todau for bartender positions! 
;t] summersessions UNIVERSITY ~ft.~ 3800 Victory Parkway
Applications can be pirned up in the Student Activities Office, 
~a Cincinnati, oH 45207·3120 
~~ 513n45-4381

3rd floor LaFortune 

Xavier University is an academic community commilled to equal opportunity for all persons regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or national origin. 
Dc{Jd/inc: 1/{Jrch 19, 199J 

Church 
continued from page 1 
replaced with chairs, a rotating of the axis of the Church to in­clude both the Saint Mary's convent and outside entrance, new glass front doors, a new altar, the elimination of the the niches and the mosaics 15 feet up. Most of the stained glass windows were also removed and clear glass windows added. The stained glass window of the Annunciation theme was moved 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
not the concerns of those 
sisters who worship daily in the 
Church. 
"The glare is awful now, but it can't bn perfect," she said. 
The sister added that the ad­

dition of the tabernacle and 
chapel is something that she 
likes very much. "It will be a 
place that the sisters will spend 
many hours worshiping in." 
While many praised some of the new attributes of the Church, such as the addition of the Baptismal font and in­creased wheelchair accessibil­ity, many still feel that the ex­penditure of $1.5 million from the Holy Cross Common fund was unfounded. 
"It's (the Church) history for us, it tells much about our community," said a Sister of the Holy Cross who opposed the renovation. She said that the renovation committee spent a lot of money on renovating a Church that did not need to be changed. 
The rededication ceremony was an attempt to heal the wounds the community has suffered. After over two hours of music, song, liturgical dance and symbolic rituals members of the community left the cer­emony with comments that de­scribed it as "nice, majestic, beautiful, very lovely, mar­velous." 
Some of the Sisters were happy because they heard ev­erything that was said or the outcome of the renovation was more beautiful than they ex­pected, but many of them still conveyed the sentiment that this "new" Church of Loretto was not the same one that was rich in the history of the Sisters. 
The reaction of the students was mixed as that of the Sisters was. 
Senior Amy SchlottHrer said that she was against the reno­vation of the Church from the bnginning and it will take time for her to completely accept the new Church. 
"It's going to have to grow on me," she said. "Their was a 
P1n1m1 City $13,. lcllll $14,. ClriUS $t5t• GUitcmala $165• Quito $t69• 

•F.yes «~ eacn w~ !rom Chicago based on a roundtrip purchase. Taxes oot induded and restrictions apply. Call for other w::Jrldwide destinations, both on~ w~ and rOUldtrip.
Council Trawl 
1153 N. Deabom St., 2nd floor Chicdgo, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the 
Student Travels Magazine 


over the outside entrance of the Church. 
Father Hank Mascotte, chairman of the Environment and Art Committee for the Fort Wayne/South Bend Diocese, said that the change was suc­cessful. 
"There was some success in the sound, the transition be­tween the mosaic and the colonnade works well, and the lighting enhanced the mosaics," he said. "A blessing is the flexibility now with the chairs and the liturgical space." 
spirit that seemed to be there especially during the mass of making peace. It's over and done with and it's better to go on now." 
"I think the nuns are just glad to have their Church back," she added. 
Melissa Whelan, junior, said that those coordinating the cer­emony "wanted those opposed to the renovation to grow to like it and to understand it." 
"They want them to come to love the Church and it is really what their aiming for," she continued. 
Now that the renovation is complete and the rededication festivities are over, the com­munity is working to reunite and begin to worship as a community again. 
Gunfire with cult kills 4, injures 14 
WACO, Texas (AP) -A fierce gun battle erupted Sunday as more than 100 law officers tried to arrest the leader of a heavily armed religious cult. At least four federal agents were killed and 14 others injured. 
At least one member of the Branch Davidians' sect was also believed killed in the gun battle that broke out when authorities arrived with warrants to search the sect's compound for guns and explosives and to arrest its leader, Vernon Howell, said Les Stanford of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in Washington, D.C. 
"They came right in, parked right by the front door and made a frontal assault on the building," said John McLemore, a KWTX-TV reporter who witnessed the shootout. 
One compound member was 



O'Meara 
continued from page 1 
worked out. 

"There is great difficulty in getting local schools to accept that, (student tutoring)" he said. "There's a danger of re-believed killed and some were believed wounded, the ATF said in a statement. Further in­formation on the cult members' fates weren't immediately available, however, and none could be located at area hospi­tals Sunday afternoon. 
The ATF estimated that 75 people were in the group, about a third of them children. Howell, who claims to be Jesus Christ, has led the nearly 60­year-old cult since the mid­1980s. 
Cult members and law offi­cers negotiated a cease-fire about 45 minutes after the shooting began. For the next several hours, ambulances and helicopters removed the wounded as local, state and federal law enforcement offi­cers remained encamped at the scene. 
sentment toward students coming in to tutor. Students need more specific training prior to tutoring." 
The roundtable forum also discussed how the new admin­istration needs to remedy the state of undergraduate educa­tional funding, O'Meara said. 
"In the US, the education is second to none," he said. "But 
1\vo agents were pronounced dead upon arrival at Hillcrest Baptist Medical Center in Waco, while another died at the hospi­tal and a fourth died at Provi­dence Hospital, officials at the two hospitals said. 
Ten injured officers were hospitalized at Hillcrest Baptist and one at Providence. Three others were treated and re­leased. 
Most of the people were hos­pitalized for gunshot wounds and their conditions ranged from stable to critical, said Marsha Jepson, a spokeswoman for Hillcrest Baptist. "We have one that has a couple of broken limbs," she said. 
McLemore said a couple of agents were shot inside the compound, whose walls were riddled with bullet holes. 
our teaching facilities are obso­lete. The resources required are large. We'll need more fed­eral support, or the education of the young will suffer. 
"We want to bring to Clinton's attention the concern students have about financial aid -we wanted to show them areas to consider." 

Your last chance to sign up for the 

[f\0tuLTI CULTURAl 

~ECUTIVE ~UNCIL 


is coming! 
Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 315 
Lafortune. 

Monday, March 1 , 1993 The Observer page 5 
Pearson~···· Global>•••••·•·•·•·•·•·•·••····· 
arms sales increase 
By BRIAN SEILER .. 'th~·main f~u::tor whidihas News Writer .•p_f"Qmpteti th;~ res~;rg~nc¢>6f the arms .mar~etJs tnetn$~etib 
New resurgence in the glQbru ~~1in;t;s;: get:]:$~~~~~J ;::~r ~~~e~e~::!~ !~iR,[~~ .~~f6~~~~~~~h~~d1ri~~:~~~~ 
State University Friday, •r~lucta;~6~ otgi~J~~~<liWO.~Jq 
At the end of the.•cotd war, ri.;itioriS to re}.y on (h~ W~$~/ ~~~~b~~~~~e~:~n~~ds~:.....•.~~~~~;tt~~·jtfn~~~~.~~~~,~···· ~::!t~~~ents ha!u!to~::e~ ~~;~~:~.6rs•····.·······l·i•k.e··············~·a·~·~·~·~···· 
a "binge of arm·~elHrig . ~rm.s p~y~ 9~¢9j~ ,p9l~!f9~\ throughout the wotld/' sYrttl)olS(wtdv~ allo'Ys tl'l."l$1l{ especially in. third~world ~~tri'?'Ytrs wpl1¥Y P~)Yep~pli~countries, he said; · tics .while the .thifd~world ria; The new emphasis nn.. •tf6n$ ~tfugg~¢ to a;~J1l;~~tfif technologically advaneed · .$~ly~~ .~~r df!.fepsf!; ~YY~f~~g.ri; weapons cOffiN! because. Cif a•· .•.• ¢#ri.t¥616f tMk b~'i/(dfifs/ «nd new realization that. "he who p:r.:estig(\, he $lilt!. . . . ). . 
:re~\rr~~ica\ft·• t:n~~~i!i~:1.•.•. ·~t~$~~,fk~i····~~~~;~t\fi~Ji~···
war," Pearson said. ·· · .... · ofhand• sev:f)ralmeasnt~s The new arms. marke.t<.ls n~¢d t9 b~ i~k~n~ r~~k$Pn centered on "capital~intensive said: Ffrst. th~ mt\ihf '()0'<\i~rs··• weapons," he said, which·are.... ri~~d.Jh shQw.•. e.Yid~pm(fif highly technical ·and·requ~te•• •mAJp!i. r~&4.~tlp;ri$ in tit~~~ few personnel tQ proouce arid ·atMmaJ.s; Addftil)tialbW operate. The Gulf War has manufaetufel$ need ~o fl{l:i~P shown that, given tb~.Pl'oper. ···.(hetee}lfi:~lo~yWi~~ Mr~~·· 
~h~o!~~Y~i~ ·~~t~~!:!~~Jo~ .·.#:~~~~~!e~~~~: .~1~~~1if: 
casualties on yQur $ide," he ·obsolescence ofarmst } added. FimtUy, Pear$firi• ~~ntht~~d} 

Don•t forget: March is energy 


conservation month. 
Kellu Watson is 201 Happu Birthdaut Love, Mom&Dad 


"WE MAKE YONTv,,,THf EVE · 
Liberal arts aids communication skills 
BY GWEN DUFFIELD Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
For students preparing for an executive career, a liberal arts education is valuable in foster­ing good communication skills and a strong sense of ethics and values, according to 197 5 Saint Mary's College graduate Kathryn Collett. 
Collett, deputy chair and se­nior vice president of Mont­gomery Elevator Co. in Moline, IL, spoke last Friday on the im­portance of developing good people skills and offered sug­gestions regarding successful interviews. 
"Companies are looking for 'people' people who are able to discuss what their company's services are and build a good rapport with customers," said Collett. 
Through a liberal arts educa­tion, students not only create rules and standards they want to live by, but also learn how to work with people from different ethnic and cultural back­grounds, she said. This expe­rience allows students to rec­ognize other people's talents and base their professional re­lationships on them. 
"Some companies have made diversity the goal within their business structure instead of looking for more quality people to manage the business," said Collett. 
Among the advice given to the prospective employees, Collett stressed the importance of having successful interviews as a means of relaying information from both the employee and employer. 
"I have found interviews to be a two-way communication pro­cess where both the people who apply reveal who they are and the company reveals who it is and what it does," said Collett. 
"People owe it to themselves to learn as much as they can about the company they are interested in working for and from the question they ask they can whether they want to have a career under that type of structure," she added. 
Collett emphasized that in­terviews are conducted for companies to fmd out who the applicants are and what they feel is important to them in their lives and careers. She also noted that companies are looking for the kind of employ­ees who ask themselves what can they do for the company instead of what the company can do for them. 
"People should not compro­mise themselves when they are trying to look for a job by saying they will do anything to get the position or the salary they want," said Collett. 
As part of the lecture for Cel­ebrating Liberal Arts Week, Collett distributed packets which described interviewing tips such as preparing a good presentation, and delivering one's qualifications and per­sonality with good communica­tion skills. 
"Don't be afraid to look your interviewer in the eye and smile. Companies are looking for people who are confident as well as forward thinkers," said Collett. 
Collett also advised students looking for jobs in non-tradi­tional industries to research the company's backgrounds in the library and write to it saying they are interested in what services they perform and would like to receive more in­formation about them. 
"Even if you do not get a job with that company, they will be impressed by your initiative and you do not have anything to lose by trying," said Collett. 
Collett has worked for Mont­gomery Elevator Company' for five years after previously spending twelve years with Old Kent Bank, a subsidiary of Old Kent Financial Corp., in Tra­verse City, Michigan where she managed oil and gas properties and estate planning while she was vice president. 
Tierney donates $1 million to fund CSC 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $1 million gift from Paul Tierney Jr., a partner in Gollust, Tierney and Oliver Inc., to support programs in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Earnings from this endow­ment will permit expansion of the center's experiential learn­ing and service programs and provide partial support for a variety of other center pro­grams. 
"The Center for Social Con­cerns is a crucial component of Notre Dame's effort to serve the church and the world," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "We are grateful to Paul Tierney for his generous assistance in these efforts and proud that a distin­guished alumnus so visibly shares our deepest institutional commitments." 
"Notre Dame has been a leader in encouraging its stu-
SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 

Black Classic* ................. $41.95+ TAX 
Designer Tuxedos* ............. $56.00+ TAx 
Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAX 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 

Partial or full payment may be made. 
(A $15.00 minimum deposit is required 
at the time of fitting). We accept cash, 
VISA, MasterCard, American Express, 
Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: 

March 1st, 2nd and 3rd, 1993. (6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Monday, March 1st and Tuesday, March 2nd. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Wednesday, March 3rd. 



dents to enter voluntary service to the poor and the disadvan­taged at home and in the Third World," said Tierney. 
"Our family's involvement in the Peace Corps, World Teach, and various domestic outreach programs began at Notre Dame. They have profoundly influenced our lives, and we are happy to make this gift to the Center for Social Concerns so that others may benefit from its encouragement. This gift will allow the expansion of Notre Dame's student volunteer programs to its international study locations as well as strengthen the domestic activi­ties." 
A Brooklyn native and a 1964 Notre Dame graduate, Tierney spent two years in Chile with the Peace Corps before receiv­ing a master's degree in busi­ness administration from Har­vard in 1968. Having held a variety of financial investment positions, he formed his own firm for management of in­vestment funds in 1978. 
Among other business activi­ties, he chairs the board of Technoserve, an economic de­velopment organization special­izing in strategic investment and business planning services in the Third World. He is also a member of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters. Tierney and his wife, Susan, have three children, one of whom, Patricia, graduated from Notre Dame last year. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns was established at Notre Dame ten years ago under the direction of Father Don Mc­Neill. Offering a variety of so­cial service programs and aca­demic courses to Notre Dame's students, alumni, faculty, and staff, the center describes its mission as "the integration of justice and peace concerns into everyday life through formative educational experiences." 






appy 21st Birthday 

Hughes 

Love, Your Favorite Headcheeses 
Department of Music presents 
American Composer 
Lukas Foss 
In Concert 
with con tempo, Notre Dame's contemporary chamber music ensemble, and guest artists 
including works by: Foss, Haimo and Colgrass 
Tues, March 2, Spm, Washington Hall 
Tickets: $5, $2 students/seniors; call63l-8128 
P----------.~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------~----------------------,. 
Engineer claws way to freedom 

NEW YORK (AP)-An engi­neer who helped build the World Tradl-l Center scratched his way out of a dead elevator with a car key in the hours after an explosion knocked out power to the 11 0-story twin towers. 
Eugene Fasullo, chief engi­neer of the Port Authority, which owns and operates the Trade Center, was headed to lunch with four fellow engi~ neers Friday when . the ell-lvator got stuck somewhere near floor 44. 
Soon they noticed smoke bil­lowing through the cracks in the car. Within an hour, the el­evator's emergency power had run out, casting them into darkness. 
The engineers pulled panel walls off the elevator, only to find themselves surrounded by steel. So they forced open the elevator doors, only to en­eounter a wall. 
But because Fasullo, 62, had helped build the World Trade Center, he knew that the wall consisted of only two l·inch· thick plaster boards. 
So Fasullo pulled out a car key, a woman pulled outa nail file, and others grabbed for any makeshift tool they could find in their pockets. Everyone began to scratch away with only the dim light of three beepers to guide them. 
"My fingers were all bleed­ing.~ Fasullo said. displaying his swollen fingers during an interview Saturday. 

Stinson 
continued from page 1 
But once again, the fear of missing his flight overpowered his curiosity, and Stinson pressed the taxi driver to hurry to the airport, he said. 
"I made the flight with about one minute to spare," Stinson added. 
It was not until he returned to Notn~ Dame that he learned of the explosion. 
"I got back to Notre Dame about 6 p.m. and turned on the news," he said. "That was the first I heard about what hap­pnnHd. Until that moment I had no idea a bomb went ofT." 
"When I was in New York, I wasn't really scared, but I might have been, had I known what was going on," Stinson 
The Observer Monday, March 1 , 1993 
World Trade Center Explosion 

Trade Center will close for a week 
NEW YORK (AP) -The World Trade Center bomb blast will shut it down for at least a week, officials said Sunday as foreign banks, shippers, law firms and other tenants scrambled to set up shop elsewhere. 
New York's neighboring commodity exchanges planned to reopen Monday, however, under a special exemption from safety officials. But all other businesses in the landmark 110-story twin towers needed to relocate under desperately short notice. 
Fifty-thousand people work at the complex which gets an av­erage of 80,000 daily visitors. Like a vertical city at Manhat­tan's southern tip, it's become critical to the region's economy, with commercial tentacles that extend around the globe. 
The cost of the damage, relo­cation, and lost business was impossible to ascertain Sunday. Many businesses spent the weekend trying to grapple with the damage caused by Friday's noontime explosion in an un­derground parking garage. The FBI said Sunday a bom.b caused the blast, but would not speculate on who detonated the bomb, or why. 
The blast killed five people, injured more than 1,000, knocked out the center's emergency command center and spewed thick black smoke into the two towers and adja­cent buildings, including one housing five commodity ex­changes. 

Investigators will piece together bomb fragments 

NEW YORK (AP} -Investiga­tors will try to piece together fragments of the bomb that ex­ploded at the World Trade Cen­ter and draw a detailed grid­map showing where every shard landed in the under­ground garage. 
If they determine the bomb went off inside a car, they will try to reconstruct the vehicle it­self. 
This process will give them a picture that can be compared to other incidents. From there they can see if there are pat­terns that match terrorist at­tacks or whether the device seems to be the work of some­one skilled in the use of explo­sives but not necessarily politi­cally motivated. 
Speculation as to who is re-
said. 

The explosion that tore through the World Trade Cen­ter brought chaos to the streets of New York. and yet the taxi that Stinson hailed just nar­rowly missed the traffic and confusion resulting from the blast. 
Later Stinson discovered that the street that led him from the Marriott was eventually closed ofT, he said. "Had I been much later, I would still be sitting in New York right now." 
Stinson added that on Thurs­day at noon, he had been in the parking garage beneath the World Trade Center ne.ar the very place that the bomb would explode just 24 hours later. 
"This was definitely one of those things that make you think a little," he said. 
Hey Greg Layson-You're 21 now ... ... Don't u think a little old for this! 

sponsible has ranged from someone upset about the war in former Yugoslavia to drug dealers to a disgruntled em­ployee. 
The method is similar to the reconstruction of an airliner when a bomb is suspected of having caused a crash. Experts sometimes have been able to pinpoint the site of an explosion right down to where a suitcase was placed in a cargo bay. 
The FBI's skill in forensics ­using laboratory techniques and other science to recreate the crime and develop a profile of the perpetrator -is its strongest weapon in the inves­tigation. 
Police Commissioner Ray­mond Kelly said Sunday that some samples already had been collected for laboratory analysis, but he would not comment further. 
Knowing how the bomb was triggered is important in guid­ing investigators to the special expertise of the unknown bomber. 
Car bombs in Britain, the Middle East and elsewhere have been triggered by a vari­ety of means, including timers. remote electrical connections, radio signals and even suicide. A classic instance of the latter was the driver of the explo­sives-laden truck that destroyed a U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut in October 1983. 
Lt. Walter Boser, commander of the police department's bomb squad, said Saturday that the type of material used in the explosive has not been estab­lished. 
"It was something very large -a sizable quantity of explo­sives," Boser said. "We want to find out what kind was used, and what caused it to deto­nate." 
Boser said there was no evi­dence that the World Trade Center's bomber died in the blast. "We're not talking about a kamikaze here," he said. 
Because the blast disabled all communications, alarms, backup generators and other equipment designed for emer­gencies, investigators will be interested in individuals who are familiar with the under­ground layout and mechanical systems of the compound. 


--------------~ --~--------.,.--­
---------~~-~----­
Monday, March 1 , 1993 The Observer page 7 

Leaflets dropped on Bosnia 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­The airdrop aims mostly to 10,000 feet above the Bosnian govina (AP)-The U.S. military help Muslims suffering from countryside under cover of launched a major relief effort in cold and hunger in enclaves darkness to minimize the risk besieged eastern Bosnia, drop­almost entirely cut off from re­posed by Serb anti-aircraft guns ping a million leaflets saying lief for months, but they will and shoulder-fired missiles. airdrops of badly needed hu­also provide aid for Serbs and However, officials in some of manitarian aid were on the Croats. the villages said Sunday that no way. But Bosnian officials said The aerial aid mission signals leaflets had been found. If the Sunday that some of the mes­greater U.S. involvement in the leaflets missed their targets, sages missed the mark. war-torn Balkans. A 19-mem­that would illustrate the diffi­
Local officials said residents ber U.S. government team ar­culty of making accurate drops feared the bundles of food and rived in Zagreb, Croatia on from high altitudes. medicine also might not land in Sunday. It will spread out Fadil Heljic, a ham radio op­the intended villages. across Bosnia to identify short­erator in the eastern enclave of 
Ham radio operators in the falls in aid deliveries, a U.S. Zepa, said "not one" leaflet beleaguered eastern town of Embassy statement said. _ landed on the town of 34,000 Cerska were issuing urgent re­U.S. officials, who said last and people were "slowly losing ports that rebel Serbs had week that the drops could begin hope." overrun seven surrounding vil­as soon as Sunday, would say lages. only that they would probably "They're afraid that the air­
In another development. the begin in the next day or two. drop bundles will end the same Observer newspaper reported They refused to be specific for as the leaflets," he said by ham in London that Russia has fear that. the planes might be radio in an interview conducted agreed to supply $360 million fired on. from Zagreb, Croatia. worth of arms, including so­Two giant C-130 Hercules Hadzo Efendic, mayor of Go­
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

phisticated missiles, to Serbia planes returned early Sunday to razde, told ham radio operator 
Marking the route

and Serb-controlled areas of Rhein-Main Air Base in Nenad Unukic that no leaflets Bosnia and Croatia. Such an Germany after releasing the landed in either his eastern 
Saturday's Polar Run participants braved snow and cold to raise 
money for scholarships. Markings in the snow such as these were
agreement would violate a U.N. leaflets at four points over town or the enclave of Sre­
made to show spirit and to show the path of the Run.
arms embargo. Bosnia. They flew more than brenica. 
A tale of one· family's struggle in Somalia 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) -year-old girl, whose arms were Mogadishu, on fertile land Once there were six children, a barely thicker than the boxer's where he kept camels and wife, some land with camels thumb. goats. Then Somalia crumbled and goats. Now Muhumed Bowe took off his sports cap into a lawless land of clan war­Abukar Adan, his only living and gave it Abdia, who smiled. fare and famine. child clutching his sarong, Afterward, she said the boxer "Looters took my camels," he needs money to buy medicine looked like "he's really inter­said, rubbing his sunken eyes for his failing eyes. ested to see us." above deep lines creasing his 
His story has occurred count­Place was killed later that day face. "We slaughtered the goats less times in this merciless when gunmen ambushed her and ate them. When food ran country, and is only written now vehicle outside Mogadishu. out, we went to the feeding because a boxing champion On Thursday, Adan took Ab­center but they were bad. They from across the ocean gave dia from the center to his hut, gave us little and kept the rest Adan's dying daughter a hat. where he repeated 88 Koranic for themselves." 
Small and thin with a greying verses for two hours and So like thousands of others, scraggly beard, Adan, 62, lives burned incense so she would they began walking last year in a shanty of metal sheeting. get better. toward Mogadishu, where they His sister's husband, paralyzed "As a father, I didn't want her heard there was food and hope. and mute, lies on the floor be­to die there," he said of the And like thousands of others, neath a shawl. Flies cluster on feeding center. "I have seen they began falling from disease any open sores. many children who were very and starvation. 
Food comes from centers run sick that became well. I believe "When I came, three children by foreign relief agencies. it can happen." died. My wife passed away," There is no money. But outside on the dusty road, Adan said. 
Down the road, two fresh more tragedy waited. Now he and his five-year old mounds of dirt with pieces of "I had an older daughter than son Ibrahim, live with his sister wood sticking out show where Abdia," he said "That daughter and her dying husband, amid he buried two of his daughters was knocked down by a car rusted metal debris and torn Saturday. that day. So I went to her. She mattresses that litter the dirt 
"They are far better than we was taken to a hospital where floor. He complained he are today," he said in Somali. she died." couldn't afford medicine for his "They are in heaven. That's our Abdia passed away on Satur­failing eyesight. faith." day, and the sisters rest side­As the sun kissed the western 
One of them, Abdia Muhumed by-side in a scrub field of horizon Sunday, Adan knelt to Abikar Adan, lay in a feeding brown mounds marked by pat down the dirt on one of his center last Monday when small pieces of corrugated daughters' graves. heavyweight champion Riddick metal or anything else at hand. "We are surviving," he said, Bowe visited. Nurse Valerie Adan has buried most of his still crouched. "We are far Place of the Irish relief agency family. They once lived near better than we were on the Concern led Bowe to the 13-Baidoa. 300 miles northwest of road. We have food now." 


•
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 







aC&B. I'Qt1ca
One 

SENIORS! 
Buy your senior formal bids!! 
Monday, March 1 Tuesday March 2 
LaFortune Ballroom 
(formerly Theodore's) 
6pm-9pm 

Wednesday, March 3 


LeMans Lobby 
6pm-9pm 

Bids are $60 per couple 
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan cl.i.s. 31 South)  5327 Grape Road (1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  



Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 1 , 1993 


H~'s IMRYWH/3RE3-81U CUNTDN HAS PUT 7H8 
. ATAIRFOI<T5, IMUS, BUU.Y PUl-PIT(}J WHEUS ANP 5CHCOL5, 7Atl< .9W~ 7AI<EN ITON lH/3 ~P. RffTAitRX­MAKJNG Hl5 CA$, ITIC5WIUN/3V8R.. /J/3 7H/3 5AM8.' 8UIWIN6 5lJPPf:Jf([,.. 

NaT SAT/SFIEW WITH RE'ACfi­IN6 CITIZENS AT TH/31!<. PLACES OF tw!<l<, WORSHIP 
OR. R5CR!fiJ.T!ON, Ml?. CUN7DN 
15 pV8N GO!N6 fXXJI?-TO-fXXJI?. 
HI! I'!J UK/3 70E?.XPLAIN 
/ 
'If people behaved in the way nations do they would be put in strait jackets.' 
Tennessee Williams 
Behave yourself!! Submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 

The Heport of the Committee on Academic Life to the Collo­quy for the Year 2000 calls to mind the unfairness of life: the Sears Catalog disappears and the documents of Colloquy 2000 proliferate. 
However, the Heport also reminds us of two disturbing aspects of Notre Dame's pursuit of research greatness: First, the 
Right or Wrong 

escalation of tuition beyond the inf1ation rate has apparently become a permanent University policy. Second, the cadging of research grants is now a very major responsibility of the faculty. 
The Heport urges increased linaneial aid to achieve "a high quality and appropriately di­verse student body." One statistic the Heport omits, how­ever, is the escalation of tuition. 
In his 1992 financial report the Provost stated that "the [Notre Dame] budget is tuition driven." In 1979-80 under­graduate tuition, room and board totaled $5,630. In 1992­93 the figure was $18,440. 
The University projects in­creases of 7.9% in tuition and 6.0% in room and board for each year through 1995-96. The Notre Dame Hesearch publication estimated that graduate tuition for 1996-97 would be $20,662, apart from room and board. 
Presumably, the undergrad­uate rate would be comparable. Inflation currently is about 3.5%. It is interesting to specu­late as to what will occur if double-digit inflation resumes. 
A graph in the Heport shows that applications for under-
DOONESBURY 
graduate admission peaked at 9,931 in 1989 and were 7,686 in 1992. It is fair to surmise that the escalation of tuition is a factor in the decline of applica­tions for admission. 
Notre Dame makes a com­mendable effort to provide fi­nancial aid to students. How­ever, the University's financial aid is generally available only if the student has first taken all the student loans for which he is eligible. 
The underlying problem is a tuition perennially escalating well beyond the inflation rate. As tuition increases, so does the number of families from the traditional Notre Dame constituency who are not able to demonstrate financial need sufficiently to qualify for enough aid to bridge the gap between the tuition and their own resources. 
The rising tuition figure pre­sumably deters some such families from even considering enrollment at Notre Dame. The trend is toward a Notre Dame where the only students from less than wealthy families will be HOTC students; ethnic mi­norities, scholarship athletes, and faculty and staff children. 
Undergraduates who are not from wealthy families or on special financial aid increas­ingly emerge from Notre Dame with a loan commitment so heavy that it impedes a free choice of graduate study, ca­reer, and marriage and family options. 
It is deeply immoral for Notre Dame to use federal loan guar­antees as a lever to force un­dergraduate students and their parents to borrow money to fi­nance its pursuit of a research prestige that bears only a marginal relation, if any, to the education of those students. 
And even if the federal gov­ernment steps in to absolve parents and students, in whole or in part, from their loan obli­gations, the result will be to transfer the burden of Notre Dame's pursuit of greatness to the taxpayers generally. Either way, it is a shabby game in which Notre Dame ought not to be involved. 
Notre Dame relies heavily, in its pursuit of greatness, on fac­ulty foraging for federal re­search grants. The Report la­ments the fact that "Notre Dame ranks about 130th [among universities] in terms of federal support." 
In 1989-90 Notre Dame re­ceived $12,302,000, in federal research money, or $21,000 for each member of its total faculty. Vanderbilt received $70,585,000, or $118,000 per capita and Duke $116,109,000 or $190,000 per capita. 
The Heport states that "The federal government... provides about three quarters of the University's sponsored -program support." The Report urges "a comprehensive strategic plan for enhancing research and scholarship," one objective of which would be to increase "the level of federal funding of research at Notre Dame." 
At the recent winter meeting of the Notre Dame trustees at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Manalapan, Florida, the Uni­versity president, Fr. Malloy, urged greater involvement by Notre Dame in graduate educa­tion. 
"If Notre Dame can become more of an actor in graduate education," he said, "I think we might have more of a role in influencing government and other national organizations." Fr. Malloy was reported as say­ing that Notre Dame's faculty members are being encouraged to apply for more research grants. "We think we're capable 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
of operating in the same world as the lvys, Stanford, Vanderbilt, Duke, Southern Cal and Northwestern," Fr. Malloy said (Observer, Feb. 15). 
Hesearch is only marginally related to education. An apoc­ryphal statistic puts the average readership of a "scholarly" ar­ticle at one and one-half per­sons. 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny writes in Fellowship of Catholic Scholars Newsletter that "Hesearch is what professors do on their own, it enhances their own reputation, it is addressed to a dozen or so others interested in the same things. The results might trickle down into classroom teaching, but this becomes increasingly doubtful." 
As David W. Lutz stated (Observer, Feb. 17), "emphasizing research causes Catholicism [as well as teach­ing] to be de-emphasized. This is true, not because there is any problem with doing excellent Catholic research, but because it is more difficult to publish such research in prestigious journals and with elite univer­sity presses than to publish the kind of scholarship respected by secular universities." 
The architects of these poli­cies act in what they regard as the best interests of Notre Dame. My criticism is of poli­cies, not persons. However, in its pursuit of money and illusory prestige, Notre Dame has turned itself into a vassal of the government and a freeloader on its own undergraduates, their parents, and the taxpayers. These policies ought to be reconsidered. 
Professor Rice is a member of the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 

..
Accent 
Monday, March 1, 1993 page 9 
A colorful change 
Indiana license plates take a new design 


By SARAH DORAN Assistant Accent Editor 
Amber Waves of Grain. 
You've seen this catchy phrase at stop lights, in parking lots and while going through drive thrus all over the Notre Dame area. 
It's all part of the new licence plate that will be displayed on alt Indiana vehieles by the end of this year. 
Indiana residents licence plates will now eome complete not only with the phrase borrowed from our National An­them, but a background farm scene featuring a silo, sunset and-of course-farmhouse. all of which are showcased in radiant eolors. 
The new licence plate was created by Hosedale, Indiana resident Kevin Hoggatt, who submitted his plan to the Indiana Department of Motor Vehicles as part of a 1991 contest. 
The department issues a new licence to residents every three years, and the new designs are generated by a contest held two years before the plate will be distributed, according to Calvin Huston, who works in the public affairs department of the Department of Motor Vehicles. 
The 1991 contest, which was open to all residents of Indiana. reeeived over 1,600 entries. 
'Overall, I think that it is just ugly and a dumb idea for a plate. I prefer the older design.' 
--Jason Kelly 
And who determined that Hoggatt's design would be showcased on vehieles throughout the state-well, many constituencies had a say in the decision 
'I don't think the prairie scene depicts the Indiana environment. It makes it look like all we do in this state is farm.' 
--Bridget Graham 
Vehicles, Gilbert Holmes. 
Reaction to the new design has been extremely favorable, aeeording to Huston who said that residents seem to prefer the 1993 licence plate to that of 1990. 
But not everyone feels that way. South Bend native and Dillon Hall sophomore his new plates in June. 
Pasquerilla West Junior Bridget Graham, who is a Washington, Indiana resident, shares Kelly's opinion of the new design. 
"They have had better ones in the past.! don't think the prairie scene depicts the Indiana environment. It makes it look like all we do in this state is farm. I don't care for it," she said. 
For his design efforts, Hoggatt was introduced to Indiana Governor Evan Bayh-and had his picture taken with him-and received a personalized licence plate. 
ND College Bowl team participates in regional tournament 
By PAUL PEARSON Accent Writer 
And you thought YOU had a busy weekend? You think YOU'RE sick of studying? 
The Notre Dame College Bowl team won four out of its six matches this weekend in the regional tournament held at Earlham College in southern Indiana. 
Notre Dame's resident trivia and general knowledge experts beat Indiana University North­west. Western Illinois Univer­sity. Knox College and the Col­lege of St. Francis. They lost to the University of Illinois and Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. 
'College bowl participants answer questions in subjects ranging from science to literature.' 
Unfortunately, that means that those two schools advanced to the next round of the tournament. The National Championship tournament will be held April 23-25. 
The NO team consisted of se­niors Jim Shiely, Nate Citino and Rob Horton as well as fifth­year architecture student Brendan Meyer, who was a 
substitute for senior Mike Moreland. 
College Bowl participants an­swer questions in subjects ranging from science to litera­
'We were hoping for more, but we are happy with our performance.' 
--Rob Horton 
ture. 
The first part of a match has individuals buzzing in on electronic buzzers to answer "toss-up" questions, while teams answer bonus questions, where team members can confer among themselves be­fore answering, in the second half. 
It sounds exactly like what NO students don't need around mid-terms-another reason to study. However, Horton, the team's captain, said his team performed very well. "We were hoping for more, but we're happy with our performance." 
Horton said the team was not surprised that the schools with the larger student populations (Illinois and Southern Illinois­Carbondale) were tougher than the others. but he still thought that his own team put up a "respectable" showing. 
But, for now, there's still mid­terms. 


,___ 
Alex Wilson Invite highlighted by individual efforts 
Harris captures shot for women 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
Women's track teams from across the United States trav­elled to the Loftus Sports Center on Saturday to compete in the sixth-annual Alex Wilson Invitational. hosted by the University of Notre Dame. The Irish fared well in the meet against some fierce competi­tion, induding Arizona, Georgia Tech, and Ohio State. 
"Overall. I think we had a pretty good day," said Karen Harris. who won the shotput competition with a throw of 48'1". "We had some really good individual performances." 
Teammate Hache! Kavanaugh edged out Purdue putter Charity Smead to take second behind Harris. In other field events, Susan Maher took second in the high jump behind Michigan 


State's  Jana  Stefanie  
Giesler. while  Jensen  
Tricia Joseph  

finished fourth in the triple jump. 
Notre Dame sprinters were stifled by overpowering com­petition. Illinois runner Tonya Williams set an Invitational record while winning the 55 meter dash, while Kelli Hobinson of Georgia Tech and Dawn Riley of Illinois provi­sionally qualified for the NCAA Indoor Championships, to be held March 12-13 · in Indianapolis, in the 55 meter hurdles. 
Another Georgia Tech sprinter, Nelrae Pasha, set both Invitational and Meyo Track records while winning the 400 meter dash. Both Pasha and Ohio State runner Tanis Foster qualified for the NCAA Championships. 
Notre Dame placed well in the distance events. Sarah Riley and Emily Husted finished third and fourth, respectively, behind Loyola runner Julie Keller, while Arizona runner Katie Williams edged out Stefanie Jensen and Eva Flood for first place in the 5000 meter run. 
Looking ahead, the Irish will be travelling to Ames, lA next week to compete in the Iowa State Invitational. 
McGraw leads Irish vs. Dukes 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
It could be a historic night for Notre Dame women's basket­ball eoach Muffet McGraw, as a win tonight against Duquesne would provide yet another stepping stone for McGraw on her path to immortality at Notre Dame. 
With a win tonight, McGraw will tie Mary DiStanislao, head coach from 1980-87, as the winningest women's basketball coach in Notre Dame history with 115 wins . 

.. 
But records are not foremost on the mind of the Irish as they prepare for the rugged final stretch of the season. 
Three games in six days will close out the regular season this week, and the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment comes to the Joyce ACC beginning Monday. 
"I'm happy with the way 

we're playing right now," Mc­Graw said. "But the number of games we have concerns me. To win the (MCC) tournament we'll have to play six games in nine days." 
That's a daunting task for any team, but the Irish start fresh, 

c?ming off an Muffet 
McGraw 
eight day layoff following a 68-55 win over Detroit Mercy on February 20. 
But finishing fresh is more important than starting fresh. The MCC tournament champion earns an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament and Notre Dame will have to play its best basketball of the season to earn a repeat championship. 
There is some good news for the Irish-the home court ad­vantage in the MCC tourna­ment. 
Classifieds 
L.....___No_T_Ic_E_s______JI 
TYPING 287-4082 
TYPING 256-6657 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233· 2342 ND Ave & Howard 
Dissertations. Theses, 
Term Papers 
Word Works Typing Service 
277-7406 
GRE TUTOR 
TOM 
288-6578 
Eat the GRE for lunch !II 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST LOST LOST LOST BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER GLOVES at the SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL JACKIE at x2205-my hands are freezing! 
FOUND: on tuesday on snow path near main library, a small key, perhaps to a bike lock; says "Krypto." Go to LaFortune Info Desk. 
LOST: Pair of sliver wire· rimmed glasses (I have no idea where). I need them for class and to drive! If found, call Bill at x1307.

I 
Lost: REX"S KEYS 

r 
'41613 

I t 
~ 
.._ 
L..-1_w_AN_T_E_o______JI 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS" CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373. 

Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628. 
SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach wanted for H.S. level team. Call 277·4791 for details. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­
Earn $2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii. Mexico. the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday,. Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 
Need ride for Spring Break to Binghamton, NY or area-Ithaca, Syracuse, Scranton ... X3624 
50,000,000 babies 
NEED ride to Daytona beach 4 break w/some girls. HELP erica #2206 
I NEED A RIDE TO NJ OR NY FOR BREAK. PLEASE CALL TIM 634·1012 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE COLUMBUS AREA 3/3 OR 3/4 GAS & TOLLS x5022 MITZI 

"We're confident about play­ing at home, but we have to be on top of our game to win it," McGraw said. 
Despite being focused on the tournament, the Irish know that there are still regular season games to be played. 
Duquesne is the first team that has to be reckoned with. 
In the first meeting of the season on February 6th, Notre Dame shelled the Dukes with their highest offensive output of the season, 95-67. 
But Duquesne is not without talent. 
With 5-9 guard/forward Kris Sebastian on the court, the Dukes boast a player who is comfortable playing inside or outside. 
Last season, Sebastian led Duquesne in scoring with 13.3 points per game and pulled down 4.4 rebounds, just one below the team lead. 
Notre Dame returns home Thursday night against Butler. 
I 
FOR RENT 

3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED "N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291-7153. 
6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272-6306 
Roomate for next year needed for Castle Point apartment. 
Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom House now for 93-94 school year 234-1886 
FOR SALE 

STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette recorder, turntable, am/fm radio, graphic equalizer. Good condition. Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy at 233-2407. 
MUSTANG ·83, 2.3L engine,AM/FM stereo. automatic transmission, New parts: Battery, Starter, Alternator, pwr steering. 11 00$ or best offer,#631 5608(Day) Ragnar,or 2725740(home) 
MUSTANG -83, 2.3L engine,AM/FM stereo, automatic transmission, New parts: Battery, Starter. Alternator, pwr steering. 1100$ or best offer,#631 5608(Day) Ragnar.or 2725740(home) 
Herman jumps 7'3" 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

For the final home meet and the final regular season meet of the year, Notre Dame turned in some of its greatest perfor· mances of the indoor track season this Saturday at the Alex 
~~~;~~=to.: .a 

list was the Dan Grenough
performance of junior co-captain Todd Herman, who leapt 7' 3" in the high jump. With this jump Herman is now ranked sixth in the nation. Another outstanding performance was by Dan Grenough, who pole vaul_ted 15' 7" and qualified for the IC4A's. 
Great Irish performances 

that resulted in IC4A qualifica­tion included Nick Radkewich who ran 14:33.84 in the 5000 meter, John Coyle who ran 
8:16.96 in the 3000 meters, and Jim Trautman in the 3000 meters. 
Among the sprinters, Joe Curren ran 1:04.86 in the 500 and qualified and Dean Lytle qualified for the IC4A's by run­ning 21.99 in the 200 meter dash. 
Other fantastic performances were by two Georgia Tech run· ners. Derek Mills ran 45.75 in the 400 meters and Conrad Nichols automatically qualified for the NCAA's by running 
1:47.15 in the 800 meters. 

"To watch someone go 45.75 indoors is unbelievable," said Notre Dame Head Track Coach Joe Plane. "What can I say? This was a marvelous track meet." 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Freshman guard Stacy Fields, shown here against Dayton, will lead the Irish as they meet the Duquesne Dukes in Pittsburgh tonight. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. a1the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepard. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. rncluding all spaces. 
TOYOTA TERCEL. blue 1981 good shape, 
standard. Call Scot @4013 
PERSONAL 
SHORT ON CASH? Borrow from the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 day loans Up to $250 @ 1% interest 
Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
HELPIHELPIHELP!HELP!HELP! HELP! Desperate female seeking ride to 
D.C. area for spring break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah @ 284-4308 and leave message. 
Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282·7042. 
Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232· 5843. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
...SPRING BREAK LOANS"' 
From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 Day Loans Up to $250 @1% Interest 
Monday · Friday 11:30 ·12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O"Hara Lounge 
SOUTH PADRE, OWNER DISCOUNT, BEACHFRONT, RADISSON RESORT, PARTIES, CONTESTS. SLEEPS 6-8 AND MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA HOUSE, SLEEPS 
4-6.$750. WK. 212-472-1414. 
Listen to our song "Take her arms and hold her down. and hold her down, and hold her down. Until she stops moving..kicking..screaming..breathi ng. And they don"t know her but what the I###. They got nothing else to do. And I would have a hard time facing you. This crime. The shame of what a man can do. And I would've died from all the hell you've been through." ·Toad the Wet Sprocket Response? x2894,x4864,x3057,x4364,x3311 ,x1 185 
Hi Mom & Dad Hutchinson! I miss you! Lover your Devt-Devt 
I what wuv you 
DISMAS HOUSE will have a table set up In the library concourse on Tuesday March 2 for anyone interested in information. 

CANCUN FOR $99! Roundtrip airfare $99. complete packages from $199! Call STS@ 1-800-648· 4849. 
MATOLA-FOOD-PRODUCTS-ARE­
INDORSED-BY·THE 

"IRONMAN TRIATHLON" FOR INFO CALL "KM·CENTER" 291· 2964 
GOING TO OR THRU PA FOR $PRING BREAK?? I NEED A RIDE! ERIN X2963 
I NEED A RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA MARCH 50R6 CALL JULIE X3736 

BID SALES for SENIOR FORMAL are March 1-3! Grab a date and buy your ticket! ($60 per couple). 
ADOPTION: A loving happy home. financial security, and educational opportunities await your newborn. We can help with your expenses. Please call us collect: David and Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's help each other. 
Don't spend an hour in your shower! 

Monday, March 1 , 1993 The Observer page 11 

ND lacrosse crushes Canisius 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE where he left off last season. sophomore defenseman Mike Sports Writer "Things went according to Iorio and sophomore goalie plan, we played O.K., but we Ryan Jewell. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse know we can play much better," Coach Kevin Corrigan was not team opened their 1993 season Colley said. 
totally pleased despite the on a positive note Saturday Notre Dame lopsided margin: "Frankly we night by thumping Canisius 21-jumped out to were a little erratic out there. 
5. a quick 5-1 was a little disappointed with The Irish thoroughly domi­lead after the our defense and we had some nated the undermanned first quarter, miscommunication on offense." Canisius squad with their and extended speed, size, and ability. t h e i r However it was not all bad 
"It was our first game and it advantage to Chip Lonsdale news from a coach's perspec­was important for us to see 12-3 at tive. "We definitely came out of where we are before going on a halftime. the weekend a better team than three game road trip over Besides Colley, the Irish were we did going into it," Corrigan 
Spring Break," said sophomore led by junior attackers Steve said. midfielder Kevin Lynnyk, who Manley (2 goals) and Robbie scored the game's second goal. Snyder (2 goals, 1 assist), senior All in all it was a solid first 
middie Chip Lonsdale (76% of game performance by the Irish. 
There was never any doubt as faceoffs won), and freshman It was encouraging to see such to the outcome of the game middie Rob Tobin (1 goal, 3 a large fan turnout at Loftus on after junior attacker Randy assists). a Saturday night, and hopefully Colley scored the game's first the same sort of student goal. Colley turned in a strong To keep the Canisius offense support that was associated performance, with 4 goals and silent, the Irish used a swarm­with last year's games will 3 assists, picking up right ing hard-hitting defense led continue the rest of the season. 
SPORTS BRIEFS
Saint Mary's ends successful season 
By BETH REGAN close to catching Wheaton, "It has been a very enjoyable Sports Writer however, they lost intensity experience, " said Crowley, "I after the first ten minutes and have learned about friendship, 
The bright side is that the began to once again play in dedication, and love for the Belles ended their season with spurts. sport." a winning record, even after falling to Wheaton College 67-"Wheaton played an excellent "My best friends at Saint 
53 on Saturday afternoon. game," said Belles coach Marv Mary's are the basketball play­
Both teams appeared equally Wood. "It's unusual to find so ers, it is like my second family," matched offensively, however, many well rounded players at a said Snyder. Wheaton dominated on the de­Division III school. " "I give a lot of credit to the fensive end of the court. Seniors Kristin Crowley, Kim senior players," said Wood, 
Holmes, and Julie Snyder were "they have been great role "Their defense would shut us honored by their teammates, models for the rest of the team. off," said co-captain Kristin coaches, and fans at Saturday's I am sad to see them go." Crowley. game. 
The Belles consistently Saturday's game was also a trailed Wheaton by about seven "It's been a great experience. memorable one for freshman points during the first half of I am glad that I chose to play at Jennie Taubenheim, who broke the ball game, and Wheaton Saint Mary's College, my the season scoring record for 
was on top at the half 35-30. teammates are my twelve clos­Saint Mary's after her second est friends and if I had the basket of the game. 
Making a run early in the chance I'd do it all over again." "I had no idea I was even second half, the Belles came said Holmes. close to the school record," said Taubenheim. "It was a com­
plete surprise." 
"It has been an unanticipated
Correction: The Observer printed in Friday's paper 
great season," said Coach
that the Hockey team had concluded its season when in 
Wood. "Hard work pays off and 
actuality there are six games remaining. The Observer regrets 
we worked extremely hard at 
the beginning of the year. I wish that I could have a team like this every season." 
the error. 
Spring Break Loan 
• $300 minimum, $300 maximum 
• Deferred payments • 9.3% APR 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
"Good For You" 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University 

1993
-----@)------­Bengal Bouts 
------------~-------­


came on strong during the sec­
ond and third rounds to take
Surprising 

Bengals 
the split decision. 

Schmidt win an continued from page 16 
155-poundthe fight was securly in hand. 

Freshman Tim Norton tried
inspiring tale 

Gerber smiled and waved to his 
but did not succeed in out-slug­
fans in thanks for their support. 
ging senior Brian Antonson,
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 

"The fan support was incred­
who earned his first Bengal's
Sports Writer 

ible." said Gerber. "It really 
title by winning on all four 
gave me a boost." 
judges' cards. 
Not even the winner could 

Norton appeared at times to
believe it. 
140-pound 

be leading with his head, much
As announcer Jack Lloyd Junior Dan Schmidt came 
to the pleasure of the hard­
awarded the 140-pound title back in the fight's final minutes 
punching Antonson. Norton was
to the blue corner, junior Dan to upset senior Colin Hanley 
battered to a standing-eight
Schmidt leaped in the air, (see related story). 

count in the first, and continued 
thrusting his fists. It was a 

to take a beating for the
celebration of his upset over 145-pound 

remainder of the contest.
junior Colin Hanley, a fighter This division mirrored the 
Although outclassed Norton
who very few thought he 135-pound class as the heavy 
never let up, he continued to
could beat. 

favorite cruised to a unanimous 
pursue his opponent, taking st­
Leaving the ring, Schmidt decision. Lou Hall finally got 
inging blows in the third, but
hugged his friend and corner the title he aspired to for the 
also landing an occasional shot
man Jeff Gerber, who had past three years by beating of his own.
won the 135-pound title a Kevin Mewborn. 

fight earlier. Because of Hall was accompanied by his 
interviews and undressing 160-pound Junior Brian Weiford had to Nelligan a standing eight count
father and brother, who barked 
Gerber was only able to make our advice from his corner After losing badly in the finals contend with the ramming style at the midway point. It for the final round. But that a year ago, sophomore Jeff of former wrestler Jamie The judges' decision drew
adorned in gold silk shirts, with Goddard gained a year of ex­Bailey. Weit'ord was pushed all mixed reviews from the crowd,was all that Schmidt needed. 
a red trim and "Sacillian 
perience and a devastating over the ring. but was the only but O'Rourke's late spurtThe Chicago native Pavillion" emblazoned across 
exploded in the third round, right to complement his lighting boxer which scored. handed him the win. 
the back. 

quick jab. The result was an Bailey was the aggressor forand a tired Hanley could not Mewborn was minus the hype easy win over Kevin Mullany. most of the fight, but Welford 185-poundstop the charges. Schmidt and minus the defense, as Hall 
Mullany seemed so concerned
landed a series of rights and landed at will for the entire was the winner unanimously The quickest bout of the 
then a strong left which sent bout. Mewborn had moments with Goddard's jab that he because he didn't get frustrated night, lasting only until a right 
Hanley to the ropes, and forgot to look out for other by Bailey's charges. He by senior Eric Poley landed
of' success when he caught Hall re­
prompted the referee to give punches. In the first and in the mained poised and scored with squarely on challenger Harry
off-guard.. but they were short 
Hanley a standing eight lived. third Goddard surprised the a stiff jab and an occasional Zembillas, prompting the ref­count. It was the surge which Grace Hall junior with right right. eree to stop the bout at 1:36 in 
hooks.

pushed the judges into 150-pound the opening round. 
"I was just keeping my hands
awarding the split decision to Favorite Joe Carrigan was up and landing jabs early which 175-pound 195-poundthe underdog. 
upended by Morrissey Hall ju­
set up my other punches," said 
In one of the more entertain­It took senior Jeff Lyman only 
"I was surprised when the nior Steve Clar, joining the 140­
referee announced the deci­pound class as the only di­Goddard. ing bouts of the night junior seven seconds more than Poley sion,'' said Schmidt. "I knew I Goddard also reflected on Kevin O'Rourke handled senior to end the final between himself 
visions where the underdog 
winning a title after falling last Brendan Nelligan. and Shawn Duffy. Lyman camehad done well in the last was victorious. 
round. but 1 wasn't sure if it Carrigan, champion year. Nelligan came alive early but out swinging and after a
a in 
"I really can't explain it," he 
gave way to O'Rourke to start standing eight count and a tripwas going to be enough." 
1991, was in control during the said, "but wearing the runner the second. A strong right by to the eanvas, Duffy was think­It almost wasn't. 
fights opening minutes but Clar Schmidt had been beaten 


up jacket just reminded me that Nelligan ended the round which ing about a runner-up jacket. 
I lost." 

surfaced questions concerning opening two rounds. Hanley's 
for the majority of the 

the winner of the round. Heavyweight
Bengal Bouts 
165-pound 

The third round brought out Senior Matt Carr came up the Schmidt stayed out of his jab seemed to be too much. 
Winners by Dorm The most unpopular bout of the best from O'Rourke. He was winner on all four judges' cards reach. occasionally dipping 
the night featured a boxer ver­able to score points early and over football player Huntley in, but the jab pushed him 
sus a bowling ball. continued until the referee gave Bakich (see related story). quickly back out. His defense 
Dormitory Winners was solid, but his offense was non-exsistent. 







ATTENTION
Dillon 4
"I knew I had to be patient," said Schmidt. "He 

Off-Campus 3 
ALL PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS! 
was moving really well which 

Grace 1 .....
made it hard to land any 

Flanner 1
punches." The ineffectiveness didn't 

Morrissey it •. 
Positions for all Pre-Law Society Officers must he filled for 
bode well for Schmidt. Prior 

Stanford 1 .•· 
the 1993-94 school year. Any interested member should pick
to the fight he worried about 

Sorin 1
the additional thirty seconds 

up an application in the Pre-Law office at 104 o~Shaughnessy.
added to each round. He had lost his legs in the third The Observer/Chris Mullins 
All applications should be submitted by March 2. 
round of his semifinal bout. 
and he was sure it would 



happen even early against 
Hanley. But it didn't. 
"I couldn't believe that I 
had that much energy. I was 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL
so worried about conserving my energy that I took it too easy in the first two rounds," he said. "The crowd also gave me a big boost, hearing them cheer really got me going." 

XXII
But most of' all, Gerber's words before the start of the third jump-started Schmidt. 
"(Gerber) told me I had to 

MAIN SIGN-UPS ($7/TEAM)
go out there and do it," said Schmidt. "In practice we would go out on our own and 

Monday, March 1 6-9 p.m.he would beat the crap out of me, but he knows exactly what 1 am thinking and am capabl(~ of throwing." 
lATE SIGN-UPS ($10/TEAM) 
Before the finals, (;erber and Schmidt went to get 

Tuesday and Wednesday, March 2 & 3 6-9 p.m.fitted for champions and runner-up jackets. "We were joking around, both of us 
Thursday, March 4 11-1 p.m.
were relaxed,'' said Schmidt. "We told the fitter to go ahead and put the champion patch on now, but we were 

2nd floor Laforfune 
only joking." It's not a joke anymore. 

2 Captains and 2 Team Names 

Monday, March 1 , 1993 The Observer 
1993 Bengal Bouts 

Carr-Bakich showdown turns into a barroom brawl 
page 13 

By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
The final contest of the 1993 Bengal Bouts looked more like a barroom brawl than a boxing match. 
If heavyweights Matt Carr and Huntley Bakich had empty beer bottles, they would have used them. 
It had all the makings of a Rocky movie. Carr was the battle-tested defending cham­pion and Bakich was the cocky newcomer.The only difference is that, in Rocky, the underdog always wins. Bakich couldn't pull the upset, but he went down swinging. 
Carr was patient in the early going. Bakich was vulnerable as he tried to connect with wild punches and Carr took advan­tage, landing some solid jabs to establish himself as the leader. 
Bakich connected with some hard shots in the first round and had Carr on the run, but it wasn't enough to win the round. 
"(Bakich) came at me strong and caught me with some flur­ries," Carr said. "I just tried to 
Senior Matt Carr (left) sizes up sophomore Huntley Bakich during their heavyweight brawl. Carr won a unanimous decision to take the crown. 
REMEMBER TO VOTE 
in Class Elections 
throw straight punches and stay out of his way." 
Carr came out swinging in the second round, pushing Bakich to the ropes with a hard right jab. 
That seemed to anger Bakich, who dropped his gloves and eyed Carr as if he was issuing a challenge from across the ring. 

Carr answe-red the challenge with a flurry on the ropes and jarring right hand that nearly knocked Bakich down. 
Carr was clearly leading after two rounds, but Bakich isn't the type to give up. 

Walking battered into the third round, he initiated a wild swinging brawl. At times, it looked like Bakich may knock down his more experienced opponent, but Carr's boxing savvy showed in the end. 
The brawl may have won Bakich some points, but it drained him of his remaining stamina. Carr took advantage. 
Both Carr and Bakich agreed that endurance was the differ­ence in the end. 
"I was just a little better trained," Carr said, noting that Bakich had to split time be­tween training for the bouts and football's winter condition­ing. "If he trained everyday he would be a very good fighter." 

But Friday he was just a brawler. Carr was lured into a couple of wild flurries, but for the most part he kept his com­posure and tried to box his way to the title. When Bakich con­nected, he connected hard, but they came few and far between, while Carr maneuvered around his flailing arms. 
"He's a very hard puncher," Carr admitted. "It must have been tough on him to split his training between football and boxing. I really respect the way he fought tonight." 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 

and blood. Best Division: 140·pound division didn't boast the Bouts 
·best boxers. but from top to bottom contained the grflatest quantity of solid boxers Biggest Upset: Schmidt's win over Hanley was one of only two upsets in the rmals, and it came when few thought the underdog possessed the 
skills. 
Biggest Disappointment: Fred Sharkey, the second 

boxing skills, but the could end a fight with one wild swing. 
Best Punch: Gerber's one punch third round which ended the Bouts for Chris Johnson in the semirmals. 
Worst Punch: Any one of Bailey's claws in the back of Brian Weiford in the 165~ 



FREE 
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 

11~ 1, 5 7 
In Dorm Lobbies 
Off Campus Students can vote at 
LaFortune Information Desk 

Hockey drops two in Michigan 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team fell to 7-23-2 (5-21-2 in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association) after dropping games to Western Michigan University and the University of Michigan this weekend. 
The Irish opened up the weekend against WMU at the Lawson Ice Arena in Kalamazoo, Michigan, and lost 5-3 in a competitive contest. 
Alternate captain Curtis Janicke, who had missed seven of the team's last eight games due to a shoulder injury, opened the scoring with 4:48 remaining in the first period to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. Although the Irish were out shot 16-8 in the period, they managed to hold their lead until well into the second stanza. 
The Broncos tied the game 
6:54 into the second period on a power play goal and took a 2-1 lead two minutes and seventeen seconds later. 
Freshman defenseman Davide Dalgrande, who also missed much of the season with a shoulder injury, evened the score at 10:06 of the second with the first goal of his career. Sophomore Brent Lamppa as­sisted Dalgrande's goal and freshman Matt Bieck assisted Janicke's. 
Western Michigan regained its lead six minutes later with a shorthanded goal. It didn't last long, though, as the Irish tied it at 3-3 two and a half minutes later while on the power play. Captain Matt Osiecki scored the goal, his fifth, with freshman 
Curry 

continued from page 16 
Curry, "If you felt the way I do about the people I work for and the kids I coach. then you'd understand. I told this to Coach Holtz and he understood com­pletely, because he has the same feeling about Notre Dame. 
"It's one of the most impor­tant things that's ever hap­pened to me. I thanked Holtz, and told him how honored I was to be considered by one of the greatest coaches in Amer­ica. I have the utmost respect for Notre Dame, and I told Coach Holtz that we will con­
Don,t forget: 

March is energy conservation month 
Brett Bruiniks and Janicke as­sisting. 
The score was locked at three heading into the third period and it stayed there until the Broncos took the lead with 6:12 remaining in the game. Notre Dame defenseman Dan Sawyer took a slap shot on WMU goalie Brian " 
Henfrew that ricocheted Dave Bankoske off his pads and gave the Broncos a two on one. Jamal Mayers scored for the Broncos on a nearly perfect shot. 
Western Michigan held its lead through a strong Irish at­tack and added one more with 
1:17 left to take a 5-3 victory. Greg Louder started in net for the Irish and made 33 saves. 
"We could have won that hockey game," said Notre Dame head coach Hie Schafer. "We played very well." 
"We worked hard but the bounces went their way in the end," said Janicke. "They capi­talized on their chances and we didn't." 
The Irish were unable to turn their loss around the following night against Michigan at the Yost Ice Arena in Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
The Wolverines scored only. forty three seconds into the game to take a 1-0 lead and scored another before the Irish got on the board. Lamppa scored the first Notre Dame goal of the evening with 55 seconds remaining in the pe­
tinue to work with Notre Dame. There's no reason why we can't continue to be two of the best programs in the nation, and work together from our separate stations to help kids." 
According to Zimmerman, other considerations included the fact that Curry loves the community, and just would not be all the comfortable picking up his things and moving to South Bend. 
Also, an assistant job for a 48-year-old coach just was not that attractive to Curry, as he enjoyed the responsibility in heading up a program. 
"He's simply an outstanding coach, any staff would be lucky riod. The goal, which was as­sisted by freshman Garry Gruber and sophomore Troy Cusey, put the score at 2-1. 
After the first period, the Irish lost what luck they had, as the Wolverines went on to score the next five goals, four of which came in the second period. 
Louder, who started in net again for the Irish, was pulled after Michigan took a 6-1 lead. Brent Lothrop replaced him with 9:13 remaining in the sec­ond period. 
The Irish played well in the final period, outshooting the Wolverines 9-4. Osiecki scored the final goal of the game with 
2:55 left to round off the score at 7-2. The power play goal was assisted by alternate captain Dave Bankoske and Irish lead­ing scorer Jamie Ling. 
"Our team played pretty well and we worked really hard," said Janicke. "I think Michigan is just too good right now." 
"They're excellent at taking advantage of any mistakes at all," Schafer said. "We fought hard and I'm not disappointed." 
"It showed that they are one of the best teams in the nation," said Bankoske. "We were pretty banged up and hopefully we can recover for the playoffs." 
As the league standings are set now, the Irish will most likely face Michigan again in the first round of the CCHA playoffs. The Wolverines have defeated the Irish four times this season. 
Notre Dame will play next against Bowling Green at the Joyce Fieldhouse on Thursday night. It will be the last home game of the season. 
to have George Curry," said Holtz, "I respected his answer." 
As far as Curry's offer having anything to do with the re­cruitment of Powlus, who has since decided to come to Notre Dame, that seems like a dead issue. 
"Frankly, it had nothing to do with recruiting," said Holtz. 
The Observer was unable to contact Powlus at his home in Berwick, and although his mother did confirm that Powlus has had a number of calls on the issue, she also stated that he felt the issue did not pertain to him and has declined com­ment. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Setting Up 

Junior Won Suh sets senior Pat Madden during the Irish's 15-13, 13­15, 12-15, 15-9, 9-15 loss to Eastern Michigan on Saturday. 
The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Literary Critic Movie Critic Music Critic Weekly Columnist 
lease submit a one-page statement of intent, resume, and a writing sample (does not have to be published) to Kenya johnson by 9 p.m., Thursday, March 4, 1993. For more information about any of the positions call Kenya at 631-4540. 
loADED' WEAPON I (PG13) 
5~~10:00
.il lRI "' ' 7:00...il::kl
OfiOuNDHoGI UAY lPQ) 4:.46, 7:15, e:-46 

-----------------11111111111 
Today
Monday, March 1 , 1993 
page 15 
~ ~ 

SPELUNKER 
SUR£ WI:':>H COUJ-Boy Woo.D IN Tl-1£. ME.ANilME, LE:'f'S HORR'I-·UP A FtND I!' CURE TO RELIVE SOMe OF OUR WtST-RElVRN VS 1D OUR ADtll-1 FliL CHILDHOOD iNNOCENCE. 
BODI£5. II T ntiS PLA 'iGROOND. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
l'Ll BH l-IE'S AT \-\\5 1-\t. COME 81>-.C.I( !=R~::>l'-1\ 
W~t:Rt.'s Cf>..L'I\N? DIOI'{T 
LOC.I(ER, 1'-1\1'55 WORt<\WOOO. 1\-\t. DRINKit'lG FCAJNThiN ? 
1-\t: BRO\JG\41 SOI'IIHI41NG SEC.RH IN p._ I'P--I'ER BAG 


JAY HOSLER 

BILL WATIERSON 
STVPENPOVS MAJ(S ST\lPtJ.ID<l\JS ~WER'S /l,RE Or NCl 1>-%\L II-\ 11\15 C\J\<1'1\NG TRI\1>.' ZOVHPS. ITs mJPENI10US MAHS ~ltHDI'3~ Nl:.tJIES\S, T\-\'E. C.R/l,B ltAC\\ER, COM\1\lG \IJ Fll'\151-\ ~\t-1\ OFF! 
21 Antitoxins 35Mild 
22"-From 3& Uncle, in Ayr Here ...," by4 39 Chicken portion Down 40 Praying figures 
24 Post-off. item 42 Metaphysical poet
25 "You have not -hulk ...": 44 Dugouts Shak. 
2&0ozes 

29 Actress Peeples Get answers to any three clues 
a1 He, to Henri by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 
34 Sarcastic 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
• 
Animal horoscopes 
... 

"Norm? This is Mitch .... You were right -Ifound my drill." 
Here •s yow"5, Chuclt." Leo: You w;l\ eat well th; s SlAYY\m-er, 
bi.A.t ha~cf t;mes o..re aht'\::ld... You will '1\0t rl'lo.fe a.t o..\1 ~~s yeo..-r,. poss<b\y th-e ne~t ·-· 'Po11ch-e~s 
figurt> big iYI you.'(" fv.tu.re." 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Rosary or wampum & Possessive pronoun 9 Frequently, poetically 12 Damaged paper 14"Caton-Tin Roof" 15 For: Sp. 1&"... -are cr~.ated equal 
17 Practices of the rich 19 Rhine feeder 20 Twilights 21 Kind of cit. 22 Zee preceder 
23Welcome 
24 Paving block 
25 Butter trees 
27 Miniver or Grundy 
28 Apprentice 
30 Food shop 
32 Basket 
33Wed again 
37 Pathway 
380uip 
39 Fla. tower 
41 Skinks 
43 What Ga. was to 
4Down 44 Molding edge 46-Paul 
Kruger 47 One, to a Scot 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

48 Boston, colloquially 50 Big truck 52 Cowboys 53 Went over carefully 56 Suffix with Nobel 57 Book unit 58 Remove cargo 59 Aves.' next of kin 60 Smash sign &1 Arty party 
DOWN 
1 Bikini part 2 Moray 3What4 Down 
was by birth 
4 Memorable civil-rights leader 
5 Prophet 
& March on Washington words: 1963 
7 Hamlet's infinitive 8 "State Fair" author 9 Corkscrew, e.g. 10 Smithies 
13Chemical ending 14Keep-on (watch) 
18 City in which 4 Down was jailed: 1963 

Bookstore Basketball XXII 
Main Sign-Ups {$7/Team) Monday, March 1 6-9 p.m. 
Late Sign-Ups {$10/Team) Tuesday &Wednesday, March 2 &3 6-9 p.m. Thursday, March 4 11-1 p.m. 
2nd floor Lafortune 2 Captains and 2 Team Names 

This Year You're Getting Morel 
• 
More, Bigger &Better Prizes ·Tremendous Publicitu and Updates 

•Professional 
Referees (elite eiight?) 

•Court 
Conditions (painted lines, etc....we still can't promise sunshine) 


•Possible Celeb Announcer Cchampionship dau) •And More 
Sports 
page 16 

Monday, March 1 , 1993 
JASON KELLY 

~ ~J~~~t~!~eNasked t~.h~J:,1~~.~":!,~:~;~..~~r.n~h~l:i.~~~~'~'positio 
Sports Writer 

Match Point ~·.·,· -... ;:~ It was a strange and puzzling turn of ......-, ....-.. events, that is for sure, as reporters all L...---------------___J over the country scrambled to find the 
d' 
MaCLeO S frustrating season luckily almost over 
It was uncharacteristic John MacLeod. 
He is a quiet leader on the bench. rarely expressing his frustration at the nightmarish 1992-93 season in the glare of the public. 
But last week's triple overtime loss to Duquesne, a team made up of future YMCA superstars. was the boiling point in a season full of disappointments. 
He was unusually animated on the sidelines. letting his players know in no uncertain terms that he was unhappy with their play. 
It motivated the team into a second half comeback that ended in a morale­shattering 80-76 loss. 
The game summed up Notre Dame's fortunes this season. Full of hope after a surprising comeback, only to end in bitter disappointment. 
But the season is finally coming to merciful close. Valparaiso at home on Wednesday and on the road Sunday at Louisville. There will be no looking back. 
Bnfore the season began. even the most optimistic fans questioned whether the Notre Dame men's basketball team could win as many games as the football team. 
But after winning their first two games and looking like a top ten team in a loss to Indiana, the phrase "post-sea­son play" was used in the same breath as "Notre Dame basketball." 
Not for long. 
The litany of Notre Dame's problems is longer than Lent, but without as much hope of resurrection. 
•Lack 
of experience: Juniors Carl Cozen. Brooks Boyer. Jon Hoss and Joe Hoss an~ the team's veterans. Cozen broke his foot. Boyer has been a factor in exactly three games and the Ross' play has bt>en spotty at best. 

•Injuries/lack 
of depth: First freshman Keith Kurowski, then Cozen went down with season-ending foot injuries. Nathion Gilmore transferred at the beginning of the season and Malik Hussell left with academic di!liculties. 


There's nobody left. A book about the season should be called "When Walk­Ons L1~tter: The Sad Story of the 1992­93 Notre Dame basketball team." 
•Poor 
shooting: Shooting percentages should never equal the outside temperature. 

•Hugged 
schedule: Actually, that ceases to be a problem when St. Bonaventure and Duquesne win on your honw floor. 

•Lack 
of talent: E/l'ort is not enough to win games. Football used to have Allen Pinkett, basketball now has Monty Williams. Stop Williams and you stop the Irish. 


Problems aside, MacLeod summed up 
the season in one word. lie was asked how frustrated he felt 
aftpr the Duquesne loss. lie pondered

.. 
the qw~stion for a few seconds. possibly thinking of all the cliehes he has spit out in his coaching earner. llis response? 
"Very." 
Then~ is nothing more to say. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Hockey 
loses two CCHA games see page 14 

•Lacrosse 
pulverizes Canisius see page 11 


IITrack teams compete in Invite see page 10 

truth of the matter. 
Did Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz officially tender a job offer to highly successful Berwick High School (Pa.) coach George Curry? 
And if not, just how did all this confusion arise? 
Well, the truth has finally come out. 
On December 20, the day after Berwick and their All-American quarterback Ron Powlus wrapped up the Pennsylvania state championship, Curry did receive a call from Holtz enquiring about his inter­est in the assistant position that was vacated by defensive backs coach Ron Cooper, according to Don Zimmerman, who covered the story for the Wilkes-Barre (Pa.) Sunday Independent. 
Notre Dame sports information director Zimmerman quoted Holtz as saying, "I 
~~rl~c~a~~~hde~n~ishi~e:~te~~~·~fo:ee~~ 
mine at Notre Dame. I told George I was strongly considering him for the job, and what I needed to know and what he needed to tell me was whether or not he was in a position to leave Berwick and have the desire to become an assistant in college. 
"Curry fit well, and I was trying to compile a (candidate).list with the best chemistry." 
Then it seems that the only question left unanswered is why Curry decided not to be considered for the position. 
"Maybe some day I'll regret not taking advantage of this opportunity, but right now I don't think so. I just love my job, I love Berwick, what can I say? We get packed stands for every home game, and we have 200 kids in the program," said 
see CURRY/page 14 

Bengal Bouts 

63rd Bengal Bouts end with a flurry 


In the 135 lb. division final, Jeff Gerber (left) battles Pat Owens. Gerber won a unanimous decision to capture his third-straight crown. 
Each class boasts true champion 
(Holtz) did call him, but I believe it was ~~~~h~fr a tehil~!~p~i~:~ i~~~·st~~;~~ 
coaching at the collegiate level. Maybe he took that to mean this was a firm job offer, that's what I just don't understand. I think George Curry's understanding wasn't 
quite the  same  as  
Lou's."  
Not  so,  says  

Zimmerman, while Holtz was not officially offering Curry the job, he was going through the channels that one Lou Holtz goes through in offering a candidate a job. You see, first Holtz must compile a list of candidates to submit to the athletic department for its approval, then he may go about picking the man for the job. According to Zimmerman, what Holtz was doing is asking Curry if he would like to be placed 
1993 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The 63rd annual Bengal Bouts concluded Friday night with twelve champions crowned under the lights of the Joyce ACC. 
It was a stirring ending to .one of the finest bouts ever produced by director Terry Johnson and staff. The crowd over over 2.000 assured an­other productive year for the Bouts, equaling more funds for the Bengal Missions in Bangladesh. 
130-pound 

The rowdy crowd was treated to competitive fights from the start. as 130-pound finalists Eric Garda and fellow Stanford Hall resident Chris Irwin bat­tled the entire bout. before the judges awarded Garcia a split­decision win. 
Irwin controlled the opening round by pushing a still' left jab in the face of his opponent. Senior Lou Hall is crowned champion in the 145 lb. division Midway through the round after his unanimous decision victory over Kevin Mewborn. Garcia was pushed into the 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
corner, where Irwin landed a series of combinations aiding his scoring in the round. 
Hound two saw Irwin score early, but Garcia returned to land two strong jabs which hurt Irwin midway through. With seconds left before the bell Garcia sent Irwin reeling with a right hook, which probably won him the round. 
Garcia landed early to open the third, and the sophomore was able to tie up Irwin when he began to retaliate. As the fi­nal bell sounded, both boxers landed jabs, very emblematic of the tone of the bout. 
135-pound 

As expected two-time cham­pion Jeff Gerber made it three in a row by jabbing Pat Owens for three rounds. 
The Dillon Hall junior con­trolled from the start. and ex­cept an occasional right from Owens, fini~hed the fight un­scathed. Aiding Gerber was a large cheering section. When 
see BENGALS/page 12 








