The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 86 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Strossen: Pornograpy adverse affect 
By JOHN LUCAS 
News Writer 
Broader attempts to protect women from pornography and sexually-oriented material in the workplace would have an adverse effect on women and their struggle for further equal­ity, according to Nadine Strossen. former president of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). 
In a lecture at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium as part of the Student Union Board's "Thinking Anew" series, Strossen explained that at­tempts to protect women from pornography and material now being deemed "sexually harass­ing" actually hurts women in their struggle for equality. 
"Special rules designed to give protection undermine equality and reflect and rein­force a patronizing and pater­nalistic view toward women in society," Strossen said. 
A cum laude graduate of Harvard Law School, and cur­rently a professor of constitu­tional law at New York Law School, Strossen explained that the subject of harassment is suddenly a very current issue in the courts. 
"The issue of sexual harass­ment has become extremely timely, particularly now, one 
see ACLU I page 4 

The Observer/David Hungeling 


In tune with nature 
Le Mans Hall sophomores Juli Strohmer and Katie Nicknish explore the nature trail around Notre Dame's St. Mary's Lake. The students were on a walk around the lake and paused to examine the shoreline. 


Senate approves lift of ban on military gay's 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate on Thursday approved President Clinton's compromise with Democratic congressional leaders temporarily suspending the formal discharge of homosexuals from the military. 
By voice vote, the Senate adopted the non-binding reso­lution that leaves intact the changes Clinton implemented last week, including stopping recruiters from asking appli­cants about their sexual orien­tation. 
Just prior to approval, the Senate rejected an attempt to turn aside the measure, 98-1. The lone dissenter was Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. 
The Senate immediately turned its attention -and was expected to defeat -a more­stringent Republican measure restoring the original ban. 
Clinton has pushed to lift the 50-year-old ban on gays in the military, but was forced to compromise last week in the face of Democratic and Repub­lican opposition. 
Senate Republicans waged a long-shot fight against Presi­dent Clinton's efforts to allow homosexuals in the military. Several Democrats likened GOP arguments to 1940s-era resis­tance to military integration. 
Democratic leaders were aim­ing for votes on both by night's end. The successful version would be attached to a larger family and medical leave bill under consideration by the Se­nate. 
Republicans, led by Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., argued that al­lowing homosexuals in the mili­tary would seriously undermine the quality of the armed forces. 
"We fear that the change in policy will significantly reduce our ability to field an effective military force," Coats, a mem­ber of the Armed Services Committee, told lawmakers. 
Democratic Sen. Carol Mose­ley-Braun of Illinois cited ar­guments from the military in the 1940s against President Truman's plan to integrate the services as a point of compari­son to such complaints. 
"The military has no more of a rational basis for banning gays and lesbians in 1993 than it did for segregating African­Americans in 1943," said the first-year lawmaker, who is black. 
Both Moseley-Braun and Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., questioned the military's cam­paign against lifting the ban in light of its widely criticized in­vestigation of the Tailhook scandal, in which Navy and Marine Corps aviators sexually harassed female officers and other women· in September 1991. 
"If the United States military is truly concerned about the environment created by sexual harassment in the ranks, this senator suggests that the Pen­tagon start out by bringing to justice those involved in the Tailhook affair," Moseley-Braun said. 
Feinstein recalled that Oliver Sipple, who stopped Sara Jane Moore in her attempted assas­sination of President Ford in September 1975, was both gay and a former Marine. 

Family leave bill may be first to pass 103rd Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP)-With fi­nal action, the family leave bill would be the first legislation to pass the 1 03rd Congress as well as the first to hit Clinton's desk. 
Because of Bush's vetoes, Democrats said the bill's quick passage would demonstrate the end of legislative gridlock, now that their party controls both Congress and the White House. 
In addition, since it's designed to help working families, Democrats said it held ad­ditional symbolic value as an indication of Congress' priori­ties this year. 
The House passed the bill late Wednesday. It got temporarily sidetracked as the Senate took a four-hour respite to debate a Republican-led effort to block Clinton's plan to lift the ban on gays in the military. 
The White House urged the Senate to move forward. 
"The president has said he wants that bill on his desk," White House Communications Director George Stephanopou­los said on NBC's "Today" show. "He wants to sign it this week, and we shouldn't let it be blocked by legislative games." 
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas shot back at those who scolded him for forcing the gays debate. He said the family leave bill won't 

Weigle awarded NEH grant 

By BILL ALBERTINI 
News Writer 
Assistant professor of gov­ernment Marcia Weigle will spend six weeks in June and July of this summer in Russia after receiving a $3,450 re­search grant which she has re­cently been awarded through the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). 
Weigle will use the grant to study the printed programs, platforms, and other documents of independent political groups which pushed for the democratization of Russia since around 1988, she said. 
Weigle said she felt that she received the grant because there happened to be "such a nice fit" between the topic of her study and the areas in which the NEH was interested. She considers it a perfect op­portunity for research, since NEH was looking specifically for research in archives that related to democratization in Russia and Central Europe, said Weigle. 
She has applied for many grants in the past, and that ap­plying is a skill in and of itself, said Weigle. It helps to have a precise project in mind or to use a grant to add depth to an existing project, she said. 
The title of her proposal was "The Intellectual Roots of Post­Communist Russian Liberalism: Programs of Selected Informal Groups, Labor Movements, and Political Parties," according to an NEH press release. 
There were sixty-four appli­cations for twenty awarded grants, according to George Lucas, assistant director in the division of research programs at the NEH. Approximately $134,000 was awarded, with the highest grant being about $14,000, said Lucas. The amount of money awarded was dependent on many factors, such as how many were to work on the project, the amount of time the project was to take, and the specific needs of the applicant. The application plans varied from three weeks to one full year, said Lucas. 
There was "fairly keen com­petition" for the grant, said Lu­cas. and Weigle's application was extremely well reviewed by various historians and archivists working for the NEH. 
"The impetus for the funding came from the recent opening of massive archives in the So­viet Union and Warsaw Pact countries," Lucas said. There are questions of 20th century history that could only be an­swered by the central archives of the communist parties, said Lucas. 
The fact that these archives were generally open to the 
see NEH I page 4 

become law for six months so delaying debate for a half-day "I don't think is going to bring the country to a stop." 
During the gays debate, the Senate adopted a non-binding resolution that approves Clin­ton's compromise with Demo­cratic congressional leaders temporarily suspending the formal discharge of homosexu­als from the military. 
Before the delay over gays in the military, the Senate rejected two amendments by Dole to make the family leave measure less burdensome for business. 
One would have forced the government to certify that their costs wouldn't be increased by providing the leave; another would have exempted employ­ers if the cost of keeping up a worker's benefits while on leave was more than $7.30 a year. 


TriStar sets tentative release date for "Rudy" 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
One may not see quite as many pairs of sideburns on campus this semester, but no one should forget about "Rudy." 
Film producers told Richard Conklin. associate vice presi­dent of University relations, to look forward to a late summer or early fall release of the TriStar picture featuring the Notre Dame football walk-on. 
Chicago filming ended in early January, and the film crew, cast and several Univer­sity officials celebrated its completion with a traditional wrap-up party in Chicago, said Conklin. 
Crew members had nothing but good things to say about the film and people involved, Con­klin said. Director David Anspaugh told Conklin that the months he spent at Notre Dame were the "most enjoyable time he's ever had making a movie." 
All the crew were "very com­plimentary about the people that they met and amazed at the love that Notre Dame stu­dents have for the University," said Conklin. 
The film is currently in Los Angeles for editing and post­production steps, including the composition of an original mu­sical score by Jerry Goldsmith, the composer of the "Hoosiers" soundtrack. 
Everyone is enthusiastic about the success of the film, and the crew "feels very strongly that it will be a great movie," said Conklin. 
Although no decision has yet been made, it is likely the film will open in South Bend, as "Knute Rockne, All American" did, he said. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Military gay ban is discriminatory, rooted in fear 
Political philosophers such as Thomas Hobbes wrote how ~ commonwealths are able 
fi-· ~~.,
to rule through fear. 
People obey laws, rules 
' ., ..,-I 
and regulations because 
,j·,~\.
they fear the 
consequences. Mark Krejci 
In most cases, this fear 

is beneficial where laws Business Copy 
and policies protect Editor people. In other cases, however, policies simply protect some people's fears while denying others' opportunity. 
The U.S. military is one such case. The military fears the consequences of lifting the ban on homosexuals in the military. 

Military leaders say the ban protects gays from abuse they would surely suffer if they revealed their sexual orientation. Sadly enough, there would surely be beatings and even murders. 
Such violence is appalling, yet it will subside with time. 
Another small-minded military argument is trust. How can you trust someone if you know they're gay? Some people seem to think that gays have no control over their sexual desires. The most paranoid homophobes should know that. according to Ken Corbett, a clinical psychologist, "rape is largely a heterosexual phenomenon" (The New York Times, Feb. 3). 
Ind1~ed, I would be much more afraid of those that havn committed violent crimes of hate and ignorancn toward gays than any gay person. 
Another argument against the lifting of the ban is privacy, or in less euphemistic words ­homophobia. 
True, soldiers often live in close quarters and have communal showers, but physical privacy could be assured through partitions for showers and dressing. 
Is criminal violence and exaggerated fear sufficient justification to deny any group o people's right to defend their country? 
I say no. These arguments, however, do not tell the whole story. 
The military is the United States' largest employer, in which there are many well-paid profnssional positions, opportunities for advancement, health care and retirement benefits. Banning gays denies them these opportunities and benefits. 
There are other things being protected by the ban: 
1) the military's fear to recognize that there have always been gays in the military, and 
2) the potential cost to the military in lawsuits for violence and other acts of discrimination against gays if the ban is lifted. 
President Clinton has set a July 15 deadline to draft an executive order allowing gays to serve in the military. 
Although his timing in raising this contro­versial issue is questionable, the lifting of the ban is inevitable. 
This is an opportunity for this country to stay true to its ideal of equal opportunity in employment and stop being a slave to un­grounded fear, hatred, and discrimination. 
Such a change on a national level could spur tolerance toward gays at other institutions ­perhaps even our own. 
Today's Staff: 
News Accent Michael O'Hara Elisabeth Heard Jen Habrych Kenya Johnson 
Don Modica Production Whitney Sheets Graphics Kathy Fang Brenden Regan 
Sports Business Rolando de Aguiar John Connorton Mark Krejci Systems Susan Marx Harry Zimbellis 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, Februaury 5, 1993
The Observer 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 

NATIONAL Dinosaur is center of controversy 
• RAPID CITY, S.D. -A judge ruled a 65-million­year-old Tyrannosaurus rex skeleton was taken illegally by professional fossil hunters from Indian land held in federal trust. But he left unclear who owns the dinosaur. The Black Hills Institute of Geological Research, a private organization, found the fossil on land held by the government for an Indian rancher on the Cheyenne River Sioux Reservation. A federal prosecutor ordered it seized last May, claiming it had been illegally removed. The institute, which paid $5,000 to dig up the fossil, sued to get it back. U.S. District Judge Richard Battey ruled Wednesday in favor of prosecutors. The institute said it would appeal. 
OF INTEREST 

• Taproot Theater Project will be holding auditions for its upcoming performance at Moreau Little Theater at Saint Mary's. Please prepare two monologues {one Shakespeare, the other a comedy). The audition will be at Flint Dance Studio, 2508 Milburn, two blocks south of Lincolnway, five blocks east of Ironwood on Saturday at 
1:30 p.m. For more information, please call Alex Lemay at 234-5230. 
• 
A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 11:45 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips chapel. Padre Bruce Cecil will be the celebrant. 

• 
A sixth concert of organ works by Johann Sebastian Bach will be presented by Craig Cramer, as­sociate professor of music at the University of Notre Dame, at 4 p.m. Sunday at Kern Road Mennonite Church, 18211 Kern Road, South Bend. The concert is free and open to the public. 

• 
Auditions for Graceland will be Monday and Tuesday from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Lab Theater. The cast calls for two women. 

• 
Xaverian Brothers Volunteer Corps representative Brother Jim Kelly will be interviewing prospective volunteers on Feb. 9, 10 and 11 at the Center for Social Concerns. If interested, call Brother Bonaventure Scully at 631-7353. 


YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 4 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 276,941,765 + 1.53 to 247.98 S&P COMPOSITE +2.36 to 449.56 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +42.95 to 3,416.74

UNCHANGED 
511 

GOLD 
-$1.20 to $329.90 
SILVER • $0.02 to $3.682 

CAMPUS 
Slips of paper inserted in magazines 
• 
NOTRE DAME -Huddle managers and Notre Dame Security are investigating reports of slips of paper found Wednesday in women's magazines, such as Glamour and Mademoiselle, in the Huddle's convenience store. These slips said the magazines are "making money off your body by telling you that you're fat, ugly, weak, stupid and wrong," and that the magaz•ines were oppressing women by making them "pretenci to be white, happy" and heterosexual. Huddle manllgers said they do not know who put the slips inside the magazines. 

• 
SERV, Students Encouraging Religious Vocations, will meet at the grotto at 2:45 p.m. to make their monthly Way of the Cross for vocations along the shore of St. Joseph's Lake, rain, snow or shine. Please come and join us to walk along and pray for vocations. 

• 
Student Union Board applications are available in Student Government. For more information, come to the SUB office, second floor of LaFortune Student Center, for the open house, Mondays and Tuesdays from 1 to 2 p.m. in February. 

• 
The Multicultural Executive Council is now taking applications. Do you want to help in this exciting time of change? Then come to the Student Activities office, 315 LaFortune Student Center, for an application. The deadline is Feb. 19. 

• 
A Discernment Group is being formed for young women interested in the religious life who have questions they would like answered. For more info~­mation, call the Sisters of the Holy Cross Membership office Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. at 284-5550. Ask for Sister Marilyn Zugish or Sister Patricia Riley. 

• 
A limited number of tickets remain for tonight's speech by Jesse Jackson at Stepan Center. Students can acquire two tickets each with their IDs at the LaFortune 



• 
In 1783: Sweden recognized the independence of the United States. 

• 
In 1917: Congress passed an immigration act sharply curtailing the influx of Asians. 

• 
In 1962: French President Charles De Gaulle called for Algeria's independence. 

• 
In 1973: Services were held for Lt. Col. William Nolde, the last American to die in the Vietnam War. 

• 
In 1988: The Arizona House impeached Gov. Evan Mecham; he was later convicted in the state Senate. 

• 
In 1992: The U.S. House of Representatives launched an investigation into whether the 1980 Reagan-Bush campaign conspired with Iran to delay release of the American hostages. 


·---------~------· -~ -~ ---­
t-nday, t-ebruary !:>, 1~~3 1ne Observer page 3 
Wetherbee: Space shuttle p·rogram is an investment 
By NANCY DUNN Wetherbee said that while News Writer every mission has risks, he be­lieves that the benefits of the 
The space program should be missions outweigh these risks. seen as an investment for the The space program is also future said Commander James criticized for being too expen-Wetherbee, Notre Dame's first sive, but Wetherbee said the graduate to travel in space, at a results of the experiments car-lecture last night. ried out during the missions 
Wetherbee discussed the translate into a higher standard Challenger explosion and its of life for the general public. effects. He said that the public For example, the technology must, "never forget the poten-that ground control uses to tial for disaster," associated monitor the heart rates of the with every mission. He stressed astronauts while in orbit is now that while it was a terrible being used in ambulances so accident. the explosion could be that a doctor can receive vital used as a learning experience. information about a patient be-After the accident, NASA fore arriving at the hospital, he reevaluated and redesigned not said. just the hardware of the shuttle To offset costs, companies are but also its decision making willing to help fund the space process. program in return for experi­mentation done during the missions. Wetherbee sees this corporate sponsorship as an opportunity to make the pro­gram cost-effective. Wetherbee also pointed out that the money spent by NASA has a large impact on the community in and around Houston. 
Wetherbee had the opportu­nity to carry Notre Dame memorabilia into space with him. At first, he was going to carry a football with him, but then he decided that while football may be what Notre Dame is known for, it is not what the University is really about. 
Instead, on his first mission in 1990, he carried the Univer­sity's 1925 Laetare Medal, awarded to Albert Zahm, a pi-


-----------------------.. oneer in theories of piloted

Serving ND/SMC Students for 

Dinner Special Mon,--Fri.$1oo off all dinners 
After 3 p.m. 
Open at 6:30 a.m. daily 
27 years 

FEBRUARY SPECIAL Our House Specialty Oven-Baked Apple Pancakes 
$J00 
offall month 
no coupon needed 
U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
272-7433 Just North of Campus 
flight. In October, he carried a Notre Dame Sesquicentennial to the moon early next centurymedallion aboard the shuttle. 

and will travel to Mars aboutWetherbee has also carried ten years after that. 
other objects with him. He flew 

Everyone should have the
a Notre Dame ballcap for Lou opportunity to travel in space,Holtz in return for a hat that said Wetherbee. He describedHoltz autographed for him. 

the experience as incredible and exhilarating.
NASA has many projects lined up for the future, Wetherbee He compared lift off to beingsaid. Space Station Freedom is 

on a roller coaster that neverabout three years away. He 
stops. The pressure mounts tosaid NASA is planning to return 


7 Day Delb.r.~ry 
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square  ( 219) 2 7 7 ...  1291Ot0.~~£,  
Sl400 31 North  ~  v'"  
isouth Bend, IN 46637  "'}.,  0.~~  

Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 
an incredible level making breathing difficult, and then suddenly, it is gone and everything is floating, he said. 
Watching the world move swiftly past, Wetherbee said he felt as though he was actually flying when he looked out the shuttle's windows. Refusing to pass up what he called "the ul­timate waterbed", the Com­mander would tether himself to a rope when he slept and float about the cabin. 
Wetherbee said that NASA is continually looking for new ideas and people to keep the program moving forward. He said he hopes to see more Notre Dame graduates in the astronaut program in the years to come. 
"I cannot say that we know exactly what we are going to do, but there are breakthroughs to be made." 

Go IRISH BASKETBALL! DESTROY DUKE! Papa John's is ready!
r-------, r-:-------:-1 r-------,
1 2.-14" Large 1 1 Late Night Special I 1 4.-14" Large 1 I 1 Topping I I 1--14" Large I I 1 Topping I I Pizzas I I 1 Topping Pizza I I Pizza I 
I I I $595 I I I 
I $1095 II I I $1995 I
+Tax -+Tax +Tax 
1Additiona1Toppings.95¢each ~. I IAdditionaiToppin:te:S::~a~:·m-... I 1Additiona1Toppings,95¢each ~-I 
INnt Valid With Any Other Coupon I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon 
.J .J .J
liill-------liill-------..... ______ _ 
Cans of Coke®, Diet Coke®, Sprite®, and Root Beer 
NOW 50¢ a can 
HOURS 

Breadsticks-8 for $190 with Garlic Butter, 
M~Th -11:00 a.m. " 1:00 a.m. 
Fri-Sat -11:00 a.m. ·4:00a.m. 

Nacho Cheese or Tomato Sauce 
Sun-Noon 1:00 a.m.
N 

Free Delivery 271'1177 Fast • Hot • Perfect 


page 4 The Observer t-nday, t-ebruary b, 1~~::i 
Clinton seen as learning from early mistakes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -After two weeks in office, President Clinton is working to smooth rough edges and ruffled feath­ers. lie's refocused attention onto less inflammatory issues ­from welfare to campaign reform -and even gotten the phones to work. 
All but the harshest critics agree Clinton is settling in and learning from his early mis­takes. 
"It's hard to argue that we did things perfectly in the first week," said White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers. "But a lot of the moving-in pains are 
ACLU 
continued from page 1 
year after Anita I !ill catapulted the whole issue to the forefront of the national consciousness," Strossen said. 
In illustrating the relationship between harassment and sexu­ally-oriented expression cov­ered by the First Amendment, Strossen brought up several recent rulings which dealt with 
sexual  harassment  and  
pornography  issues in the  
workplace.  

According to Strossen, one of the more important rulings 
NEH 
continued from page 1 
public has never been true be­fore and might not be true for­ever because of the unstable nature of the economy and government in these recently democratized countries, said Lucas. 
Lucas said that the archives include sensitive material and there were fears that someone might pilfer some of this mate­rial. 
Since many archive collec­tions in the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact nations are not set up well, there have been problems with the removal of archives. There have also been instances of individuals being forced to sell parts of collections in order to support themselves in the eastern nation's troubled economies, said Lucas. 
Weigle said there has been a great growth of new archive collections in Russia since 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE Our good rates may save you money We now offer a Good Student Discount Call fer a quote
9 a.m.· 5 p.m. 
289,1993 Office nextro Campus 
easing." 
After the early-days turbu­lence from the withdrawal of his attorney general nominee and an unwanted skirmish with Congress over lifting the ban on military gays, Clinton was navigating in calmer waters. 
He held high-profile meetings on health care, welfare reform and campaign financing and made overtures to organized labor and governors. 
And he dramatized the work on his economic package by inviting the Cabinet to Camp David and holding daily ses­sions with economic advisers. 
came recently in the Florida case of Robinson vs. Jack­sonville Shipyard. The case dealt with the situation of a woman who felt she was being discriminated against by her co-workers who had harassed her with pornography and other sexually-oriented mate­rial after she had specifically asked them to stop. 
The court eventually decided that her male co-workers would be prohibited to display porno­graphic material in the work­place. 
Strossen said that this deci­sion was not in the best interest of the woman in the workplace. 
"Instead of censorship, we 
around 1988, collections which the Soviet state used to control but which are now more and more often independent collec­tions of materials and informa­tion. 
Weigle said she plans to visit four main archive collections in Moscow, one being in the Rus­sian archives, and the other three being independent collec­tions. She hopes to collect both printed materials and personal interviews, she said. 
Weigle said she started in the field in 1989, when she realized that the new movements nl:wnd a significant role in Russian 

After clashing prematurely with Democratic leaders over his plan to lift the ban on gays in the military, Clinton made two goodwill trips to Capitol Hill this week to cement ties with Democrats. 
He also announced he will meet Hill leaders every Tuesday -alternating between just Democrats and bipartisan dele­gations. 
"His presidency got off to a bad start. But he's already shown the damage doesn't have to be permanent," said University of Virginia political scientist Larry Sabato. "All this 
need the free exchange of ideas. 
The way to combat offensive material and speech is more speech and counter speech. In this case, women could put up their own material -anti­pornography posters, works of art, or even pictures of males. The possibilities are endless," Strossen said. 
Another recent case, accord­ing to Strossen, dealt with the Stroh's Brewing Company of St. Paul, Minnesota. Women employees of the Stroh's com­pany objected to advertise­ments that depicted the "Swedish Bikini Team" and 
politics and created a com­pletely new field"in Russian politics. Last year, she did re­search at Stanford University on the subject. 
The final goal of the project will be a book manuscript on the development of civil society in Russia, said Weigle. Weigle said that she could best spread her knowledge of Russian poli­tics from her upcoming trip in her classes. 
"It is something you bring back into the classroom," she said. "It is incredibly important to be there for the students." 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 
288--3320 
2610 Praire 

18" Large Pizza $995 
(two toppings) 

DINE IN OR CARRY OuT ONLY ­
Offer valid Monday through Thursday until the end of May 
Don't be caught empty handed! Valentines Da.y is Sunday, February 14th 

Pre-Order by FridaYt February 5th for lower prices 
at 

IRISH GARDENS 
All Delivery Orders Must Be In By Saturday 

Please make all orders in advance for fastest service 
Visa/MC accepted delivery to NO/SMC/off campus Balloons/Cards too! 

Open Sunday, February 14th 12:30-5:30 
week he's been on message and scored direct hits on welfare reform, campaign financing, and other subjects." 
Clinton himself told budget workers Wednesday, "I may not do everything right, and I can't do everything that's just popular in the short run. (But) we're trying to set an example for the people that sent us here." 
Clinton and his high com­mand, ladden with baby­boomers who grew up in a high-tech age, were revamping the White House's own infras­tructure. 
Dismayed that he couldn't get a private line -except perhaps to Moscow -Clinton ordered the phone system updated. And aides worked to modernize what they described as a dys­functional computer system. 
"When I got to the White House, guess what I found?" Clinton told governors. "Same phone system Jimmy Carter had. With technology that was put in during Kennedy's time and changed only to put push buttons instead of dials. 
"No E-Mail, no conference calls, but anybody could pick up the button I was talking on ­

claimed that those ads, and others depicting scantily clad models, made for a climate that promoted harassment in the brewery. 
"Although this was the first attempt to link the effects of ad­vertising to actual women, it was misguided because there is not yet a proven link between the two," according to Strossen. 
While pornography in the workplace is a current issue, Strossen stressed that verbal sexual harassment is also a 
ECURITY BEAT 
MON.J FEB. 1 
8:32 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to 11 ca$1il of vandalism at Haggar Hall. 
10:12 a.m. A Pasquerilla East Hall resident reported the theft of her vehicle's license plate wh!ls it was parked in the D02 lot 
12:36 p.m. Notre Dam(! Security trans· ported an injured Notre Dame student from the JACC to the St. Joseph Emergency Room. 2:45p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his unsecured bicycle from outside his dorm room. 4 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his vehicle's license plate while it wa~ parked In thll 601 lot over the weekend. 
TUES., FEB. 2 
8:07 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of his parking decal from his vehicle. 
problem which must be dealt with in a sensitive manner due to First Amendment rights. 
Strossen explained that spe­cific verbal attacks can be con­sidered harassment, while speech in an open forum, no matter how offensive, is cov­ered under the bounds of free speech. 
"In any case, it's very difficult to strike the appropriate bal­ance between free speech and equality concerns," Strossen said. 

1:27 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her parking decal from her vehicle. 
5:01 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re­ported the theft of his bookbag from outside his dorm room. 
6:40 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported the theft of her vehicte•s license plate while the vehicle was parked in 002. 
8:36 p.m. Notre Dame Security transported an injured Zahm Hall resident from the JACC to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
8:51 p.m. Notre Dame Security transported an Injured St. Edwards Hall resident from the Hammes Bookstore to Student Health Services.­
9:10 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a case of vandalism at the WNDU·TV Station. 


-~---~---~----~--------­

Friday, February 5, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Recognizing, treating eating disorders essential 
Catholicism had powerful impact on growth of cities 
By ROB ADAMS 1930s were a time of News Writer "extremely powerful Catholic culture." McGreevy argued that pre­
Catholicism has had a power­dominantly Catholic neighbor­ful impact on the growth of hoods during this time had ra­Northern America's cities in the cial tensions that were based twentieth century according to on the territory they lived in. John McGreevy, a 1986 Notre Catholics did not consider Dame graduate, who gave a "blacks to be inferior," Mc­lecture on his paper, "Race and Greevy said, "they just felt that Twentieth Century Catholic the neighborhoods should be Culture" Thursday at Notre segregated." Dame. Segregation was not so 
"Twentieth century histori­unusual during that time in the ans don't pay attention to reli­Northern cities, according to gion," McGreevy said, "but I McGreevy, as Poles, Germans, think that religion was impor­Italians. and other immigrant tant to the events that shaped groups lived in their own the twentieth century so I de­neighborhoods. Unfortunately,cided to do my dissertation on as most of those "white" immi­the interactions between grant groups gradually meshed, 'white' Catholics and blacks they continued to keep the who tried to integrate their blacks out of their neighborhoods during the neighborhoods. 1920s and 1930s." 
McGreevy said that his study "Catholic churches created a centered on Northern cities and particular geographical view of that time period because many the world in which your parish blacks had been moving is where you are from," Mc­northward since the end of the Greevy said, "which resulted in Civil War and the 1920s and uneasy racial transitions." 
House passes bill to ease state voter registration 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House Majority Whip David Bo­House passed a bill Thursday nior, D-Mich. "The big reason is that would force states to offer this: the antiquated, unnec­easier voter registration. essary obstacles we impose on Democrats brushed aside Re­our voters." publican attempts to portray it The House sent the legislation as "an engraved invitation to to the Senate on a 259-160 fraud." near party-line vote, little dif­
ferent from last year's 268-153 

The bill, essentially the same margin despite the influx of 110 as one vetoed by President freshman. Bush last year, tells states to "Seventy million Americans otTer voter registration by mail, are not registered to vote," said at their motor vehicle bureaus Becky Cain, president of the and other state agencies, in­League of Women Voters. "Now eluding welfare offices. it is up to our senators and the 
"Why are voter turnout fig­president to stand up for ures so low in America? Why universal voting rights for all 23rd in the world?" asked Americans." 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
Recognizing the symptoms of eating problems and treating them with methods that help persons who have these disor­ders is essential to the recovery of family and friends with eat­ing disorders, according to Chris Nelson, a counselor at University Counseling Center in yesterday's Eating Disorders Awareness Week lecture. 
"The important thing is to gather as many facts as possi­ble and not to attack the indi­vidual you suspect has a prob­lem," Nelson said. "But, you need to be strong enough to break through their denial." 

She said it is also important not to gang up on an individual if they have a problem. Com­munication between the indi­vidual and a close or influential friend works best, and the in­dividual should be encouraged to seek a professional's help. 
"If the individual doesn't feel comfortable talking to a coun­selor at the University, then we encourage them to seek help at one of the local hospitals," she said. "There are numbers you can call anytime in the South Bend yellow pages." 
Nelson said the three major eating disorders are anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and compulsive overeating. Indica­tors of these diseases include: depressed mood, binge eating, intense fear of becoming obese and self-deprecating thoughts after a binge. The source o these problems ranges any­where from the individual's need for approval to anxiety. 
"People with eating disorders feel so overwhelmed that sometimes they can't cope with their feelings," Nelson said. "Consequently, they binge in order to relieve their anxiety." 
Nelson's presentation was held as part of the University Counseling Center's week-long program of events in recogni­tion of Wednesday's National Eating Disorders Day. 

Clinton near to attorney general nomination 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton has narrowed his search for an attorney general to three people and the leading contender is Kimba Wood, the female judge who presided over junk-bond financier Michael Milken's fraud trial, administration officials said Thursday. 
"Tune in," Clinton told re­porters who asked if he was ready to appoint Wood to the post. 
A decision is expected within days, officials said. 
"The president has not yet made a decision," White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said. "To the best of my knowl­edge, he has not called and of­fered anyone the job. Now, in his heart of hearts he may have made a decision. I can't speak to that. But there is nothing scheduled tomorrow, and I don't expect an announcement tomorrow." 
She said the president was awaiting the outcome of routine background checks by the FBI. 
TwoWaysToFillYourWallet. 

Get up to $4.00 back when 
you buy any Kodak color film. Put some hot colors and cold cash in your billfold. Get a $2.00 cash rebate by mail when you collect three proofs of purchase, or $4.00 back with six proofs of pur­chase. See our in-store redemp­tion certificate for details. Hurry, offer expires March 31, 1993. 
Kodak products available at..... 
=. ._1 The Hammes --1 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus • Open Monday-Saturday 9a.m. -5p.m.
l~J 
C Eastmac Kodak Company. 1002. Kodak ·Km~ Photo Contest Wmne:. Mar• lanr Wili:J'Tl~nr. 

She said a weekend an­nouncement was unlikely. 
Wood is a Democrat but was appointed to the federal bench in New York by Republican President Reagan nearly five years ago. Her confirmation hearings then were trouble­free. 
Others said to be finalists are Washington attorney Charles Ruff and former Virginia Gov. Gerald Baliles, according to two administration officials who discussed the matte on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Both rated Wood the favorite, citing a favorable interview with the president last week, Clinton's desire to name the first female attorney general and the fact that she already has been through the Senate confirmation process. 
Clinton's search was forced by the abrupt withdrawal last month of his first nominee, Connecticut attorney Zoe Baird, because of intense criticism of her hiring of illegal aliens, a vi­olation of immigrations laws the attorney general is charged with enforcing. 
A Bush administration ap­pointee, Stuart Gerson, is run­ning the Justice Department in the interim, but senior Clinton advisers are eager to get a member of their team in place. 
The names of Wood, Ruff and Baliles were shared with Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Biden to make sure there were no serious objections, and none were raised, this official said. Biden's spokesman said his conversa­tions with the White House were confidential and declined comment. 
One of the committee's Re­publican members, Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, said he knew of no GOP objections to Wood, Ruff or Baliles. "I think we'll have to wait and see the FBI report but I know of none at this point," he said. 
Hatch said it was his under­standing "they will have an at­torney general by the end of next week and probably before then." 
Biden has pledged to hold confirmation hearings as quickly as possible. The Senate is out of session next week, due to return on Feb. 16. 
Wood, 49, is best known for her handling of the highly pub­licized Milken securities fraud trial. She sentenced Milken to 10 years in prison but then re­duced it to two years because of his cooperation with prosecu­tors. 
Before being named to the bench, Wood's legal work ranged from representing poor families in class action suits to representing huge companies in antitrust cases. 


Oriental Restaurant 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by
NowKodakGivesYou 

130 Dixie WaY. N., South Bend 
I
Michiana Now 

(next to Randall's Inn)
L-------== 
Chinese • American 
Restaurant & 
Cocktail Lounge 
1\.ulhentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Best 


JEFF BRIDGES 
KIEFER SUTHERLAND 
1HE VANISHING 
Fri: 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 Sat·SUn: 2:00, •:45, 7:15. 8:45 

ALIVE 

EMILIO ESTEVEZ
LOADED 
WEAPON I 
Fri: 5:15, 7:30. 10:00 ~ Sa1·Sun: 1:15,3:15. 5:15,7:30, PG·ll 10:00 
page t> 1ne uoserver rJ IUay, rl:lUI Ui:ll y ::>, I ::1::1..) 
Clinton to Jury selection begins in King case shrink 
LOS ANGELES (AP) 

prospective jurors' optmons Prospective jurors in the Rod­
about law enforcement, pretrial 
college aid 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­
President Clinton's plan to 
let college students repay 
education loans through 
community service will be 
phased in gradually, not 
launched as a nationwide 
initiative, a White House 
aide said yesterday. 
"It was always intended to be phased in, but I think the president's committed to it," said Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers. Clinton proposed a nationwide community service plan during the campaign. 
Myers, asked if Clinton would have to slow down action on the plan because of the tight budget picture, said the president has "had to reconsider a lot of his op­tions based on the higher deficit numbers." 
"Nobody expected the deficit to be $60 billion to $100 billion higher than it was last spring when (his proposal) first was drafted," she said. "That's one of the reasons the president has had to consider a broad ar­ray of his options and we're looking at that now." 
The Washington Post re­ported yesterday that Clinton would propose a pilot program to let some students repay loans with community service. 
The newspaper quoted presidential assistant Eli Se­gal as saying "the reality of the budget deficit" will force Clinton to delay his "dream" of a program available to all students. 
Segal said Clinton wants to avoid a "massive new fed­eral program" and instead is considering measures to strengthen some existing service programs and seeking aid from state and local governments. busi­nesses and nonprofit groups, the Post reported. 
As a candidate, Clinton said allowing all interested students to work off their college loans through com­munity service was "a sym­bol of what this campaign is all about." 
ney King beating case were asked whether they could reach a verdict without fear of more rioting -and whether they took part in the violence after the police officers' first trial. 
The process of selecting 12 jurors to hear the federal civil rights trial began Wednesday as 333 prospects were asked to fill out 53-page questionnaires. 
The mountain of question­naires was not duplicated in time, so lawyers will begin studying the potential jurors' responses today instead of yes­terday. 
Sergeant Stacey Koon, Offi­cers Laurence Powell and Theodore Briseno and former Officer Timothy Wind are charged in the beating of King 

most charges last April by a
after a freeway chase on March 

jury with no black members
3, 1991. Wind, a rookie on pro­triggered rioting that killed 54

bation, was fired after the 

people and caused $1 billion in beating. 
damage.
The officers' federal trial 

After the riots, the officersopened a year after they went were indicted on the federal on trial on state assault charges charges. The officers are whitein the mostly white suburb of and King is black, but U.S. Dis-Simi Valley. Their acquittal on 
Gang leaders pledge truce 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Street gang leaders from four major cities pledged a truce on Thursday and said they'll convene a broader gathering this spring so others can take the oath. 
Their so-called "summit" was set for April 30-May 2 in Kansas City, Mo., timed to coincide with the first anniversary of the Los Angeles riots. 
Nine representatives from black and Latino gangs in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Minneapolis met in Washington to pledge peace, pray together and plan the Kansas City meeting. 
"We have had 800 killings in Los Angeles County alone, and the majority were Latino brothers," said Daniel Alejandrez, director of the California Coalition to End Barrio Warfare. "We have lost brothers and sisters, and we are tired." 
"We are not going to buy into the concept of 'Once one, al­ways one.' no more," said Fred Williams. an ex-gang member who helped establish a May 1992 truce between the Crips and the Bloods, the two largest gangs in Los Angeles. 
"We must admit we have a problem first and remove the element of fear," Williams said. "Only if we work with our fami­lies and our children will we be able to have change." 
Closing arguments delivered in sex-torture case 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. (AP) He urged jurors to convict -A man who stripped, beat Shipman of child abuse and in­and shaved his niece in a humane treatment instead of soundproof obedience chamber the more serious molestation while he videotaped the charges. "discipline" saw the girl as a If convicted of all charges, "sexual fantasy," a prosecutor Shipman could be sentenced to said Thursday. 120 years in prison. Martinez 
John Shipman, 53, a big, said the lesser charges of abuse burly man with close-cropped would carry a maximum hair, sat in court scrawling on a penalty of eight years in cus­legal pad as Santa Barbara tody. County Deputy District Attorney The videotaped sessions Gene Martinez made the allega­started at Shipman's upscale tion and Deputy Public De­Santa Maria home, 140 miles fender Tom Allen refuted it. northwest of Los Angeles, when 
The case was expected to go the girl was 13 years old, to the jury Thursday afternoon. authorities said. It ended three 
Shipman was charged with 15 years later when the secret counts -four for lewd acts videotapes were discovered, with a child under 14, and 11 prosecutors said. for rape with a foreign object. The girl, now 17 and living in He testified he subjected the 
~rl to treatment similar to that~--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
he received as a child. 
Allen did not deny that the girl was abused, but claimed there was no sexual intent. 
"Not all of us are Solomons. Not all of us can reason with our child every time. You see it in the grocery store -people abusing their children. There's nothing sexual about it. It's just abuse, pure and simple," Allen said. 
Earn ~~..)~
" " ~ (" 
for Spring Break 
Waiters, Waitresses and Food Services Help needed for JPW Catering Events February 1 5-February 21 
Sign ups are from 
1 0 a.m.-4 p.m. daily 
Basement of SOH 
J p \XI 1 9 9 3 
publicity, the nature of the case and race. Davies released a blank copy. 
Among the questions: 
•"What 
was your personal reaction to the verdicts in the state court trial? Did you feel that justice had been served or were you disappointed with the verdicts?" 

•"Did 
you, or any friend or relative, participate in the civil unrest?" 

•
"Do you fear the prospect of social unrest following a verdict in this case?" 

•"In 
general, how would you rate the job the Los Angeles po­lice are doing in dealing with crime?" 

•"Have 
you ever been afraid of someone of another race?"



trict Judge John Davies has ruled that prosecutors don't 
Harland Braun, an attorneyhave to prove that the beating, for one of the officers, sug­which was captured on video­

gested that many of the

taped by an onlooker, was ra­
prospective jurors would be

cially motivated. 
dismissed because of bias inThe questionnaire required their answers. and he predictedessay answers to most of its 148 that more people would have toquestions. It concentrated on be summoned. 

the Los Angeles area with her mother, was sent to live with Shipman in 1988 after she ran away from home. Shipman and his wife promised to discipline her and enroll her in school. 
Martinez said in closing ar­guments that the victim was a "sweet, innocent, naive girl" when she arrived, but Shipman "targeted her with his one-track mind." 
She was "his sexual fantasy standing right there in front of him," Martinez said. 
During the trial, the prosecu­tor showed the jury the graphic 37 minutes of video document­ing sessions in the "war room" -a concrete-lined basement with soundproofing. 
Shipman was seen ordering the nude girl to shout obsceni­ties while he whipped her as she lay face down with her arms crossed in back. 
"Oh God, please stop!" the ~rl pleaded as Shipman was seen smoothing oil on her buttocks and beating her with leather straps. "I'll never do it again! Oh, please stop!" 
Shipman then ordered her to turn over so he could shave her pubic hair. 
The girl told jurors Shipman hit her with straps, a riding crop, a wooden paddle and a switch. 
"He said it was to help my 


•
nnts 

Chairman, National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities 
speak's 


e arto o 


11:30 a.m. 
friday, February 5, 1993 The Observer 
Judge rescinds order in train crash 
GARY, Ind. (AP) -A judge left seven dead. Thursday rescinded his order "Certainly it's within the law that the Northern Indiana for the railroad to seek those Commuter Transportation delays, but it was our position District immediately release that if the railroad were sincere names of passengers in last in their representation that they month's deadly commuter train wanted a just and speedy crash. resolution of these cases, then 
Lake Superior Judge James rather than protract these pro­Richards had ordered the rail­ceedings . . . they would in fact road last week to turn over the say, 'Here are the answers.'" information. When the railroad Michael Harris, the railroad's did not, Merrillville attorney attorney, said he would give the Kenneth Allen asked Richards list to Allen if Richards grants to find the railroad in contempt. the class-action request. Harris 
Richards reversed his initial said he would fight any order order Thursday, following state that he turn over the documents trial rules that allow the rail­before that. road 30 days notice that it will ''I'm not saying that we're al­be asked to turn over such in­together totally right," Harris formation. said. "What I am saying is that 
Richards also scheduled a we're trying to proceed in an March 31 court date to rule on orderly fashion. Allen's request for class-action "We're not trying to hide status for lawsuits filed on be­anything from anybody. We're half of those killed and injured just trying to conduct our inves­the Jan. 18 collision. tigation ... and we don't want 
"I think the judge is going to our passengers harassed by allow the railroad to use every lawyers." procedural delay that the law Harris said the railroad has permits," said Allen, who has contacted most of the passen­filed suit on behalf of 14 people gers. injured in the accident, which "We still have a responsibility 
r----INTROOUCTORV COUPON ----, 
a
10% 10%
Successories· 

University Park Mall o Grape Road o Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Motivational "Inspiring" ...Wall Decor ...Crisp Books "Challenging" ...Lombardi Merchandise 
"Moving"
...Training Material 
Inwirational 

"WOW!" ...Plaques . . . Audio & Video Tapes "I love it!" ...Rudy ...Cards''t !I" . .. Art & Lithographs
• 
I We also customize Award Programs!! 
I Hours: M-S 10:00-9:00 
219/273-2200
SUN 12:00-6:00

I 
to those people who were in­jured and to the estates of the descendants," he said. "We'll meet that responsibility and we're doing it as fast as we can and as well as we can." 
The railroad has not yet been named as a defendant in the lawsuits filed by Allen. The suits name the Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railway Co. Allen said that was a proce­dural move designed to initiate the legal process. NICTD also will be named sometime in the spring, he said. 
The South Shore filed bankruptcy in April 1989 and sold all its equipment to NICTD, which operated the trains in­volved in the crash. 
Also Thursday, two lawyers filed motions to intervene on behalf of passengers in the case. The lawyers also are dis­puting Allen's push for class­action status. 
"It is much better to fight a united front against these de­fendants than it is divided," Allen said. 
Griffith lawyer John Breclaw, one of the lawyers who filed 


The Observer/Tom Thorn

A fresh perspective 
Students take advantage of the recent warmth and the newly construe­lured monument outside DeBartolo Hall by relaxing and meeting under the structure. 

to intervene 
prevent many has said Allen's tactics would from reaching quick settlements deny victims the right to choose with the railroad. 
Kevorkian assists in two suicides 

about a month. Kevorkian had been unwilling to travel to Indi­ana for Biernat's death, be­cause he was unsure what In­
The Observer 
diana authorities would do, the lawyer said. 
is now accepting applications 

Indiana law prohibits efforts that cause a suicide by force or
for the following positions 

deception, but not the sort of consensual activity practiced by Kevorkian. Two bills on the is­sue have been filed in the Indi­ana General Assembly this year, 
Managing Editor 

a spokesman said. In addition, Fieger isn't li­
Applicants should have strong management and censed to practice law in Indi­ana.
~nterpersonal skills, a solid base of Macintosh computer "There might be some pros­ecutors down there (in Indiana) 
who would want to appease the right-to-lifers, and I couldn't
~nowledge, basic journalistic and editorial skills and 
help him there," Fieger said. Ball allowed the use of his 
some newspaper production experience. Any full-time 
home, a modest bungalow on 
the shore of frozen Lake Lee­
lanau, for both suicides. Biernat 
undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or 
Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. 
was driven there by her children. 
SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) -munity of 1,642 people on Lake Jack Kevorkian helped an Michigan north of Traverse City elderly terminally ill Michigan in the northwestern Lower man and Indiana woman kill Peninsula, said Kevorkian's themselves Thursday, making lawyer, Geoffrey Fieger. them the tenth and eleventh Fieger identified the dead as people to die aided by the self­Stanley Ball, 82, in whose home described suicide doctor. the deaths occurred, and Mary 
Kevorkian's lawyer said a Biernat, 73, of Crown Point, flurry of people have been Ind. seeking the doctor's help in dy­Ball, who was legally blind, ing before a temporary state suffered from pancreatic cancer ban on assisted suicide takes and had jaundice as a result. effect March 30. Biernat had breast cancer that 
Kevorkian, a retired pathol­had spread into -h,st, ogist who lives in Royal Oak, Fieger said. has said he intends to ignore "Both of the patients were in the law because he believes it is extreme pain and needless to immoral. say were near death," Fieger 
The two latest suicides oc­told reporters at his Southfield curred at about noon Thursday office. in Leland, a picturesque com-Fieger said Kevorkian had 
been counseling the two for 
Thursday was the third time Kevorkian has assisted in the suicides of two people simulta­neously. 
Fieger said Kevorkian called him shortly after noon to tell him of the deaths, both by car­bon monoxide poisoning. Bier­nat's two sons were present, as were Ball's son and the son's fiancee, he said. 
There was no answer Thurs­day afternoon at Ball's tele­phone listing . 
Leelanau County Prosecutor 
G. Thomas Aylsworth went to the scene. 
"My hands are tied," Aylsworth said. "I just wish that he (Ball) had let us know so that someone could have talked to him to see if we could help." 
Others at the scene refused to talk to reporters. 
Attempts to contact Biernat's family in Indiana were unsuc­cessful. 
The previous suicides assisted by Kevorkian all took place in the Detroit area. 
Kevorkian, who promotes doctor-assisted suicide for some terminally or chronically ill people, last assisted a suicide Jan. 20. 
A Michigan law making as­sisted suicide a felony while a panel studies the issue takes ef­fect March 30. Assisting a sui­cide would be punishable by up to four years in prison and a $2,000 fine upon conviction under the law, which will be in effect for 15 months during the study. 
Fieger said people consider­ing suicide are "becoming more desperate in view of the law. Family members are concerned they will be charged." 
Business Manager 

~ny sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic !Understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, February 5, 1993 at 5 p.m. For more information about these positions, call Managing Editor John Rock at 631-4541 or Business Manager Rich Riley at 631-5313. 
S'IO{R/JTELLig{(j ?8{1J {Rt£5I1JI7{(j 5I'I'I:J{t£ 59{JPE Mllit£'l1M University of Notre Dame 
For all ages, free and open to the public Saturday, February 6, 1993 at 10:30 a.m. 
Love and !Rpmance 
rr'rue or ![af.se? 
-------------------~--­
page 8 The Observer 


WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi· dent Clinton, saying the chances for peace "can slip away aJI too easily," is sending his secretary of state to the Mideast to try to reopen Arab· Israeli negotiations despite the furor over Palestinian deporta· tions. 
"It is an indication of the pri· ority my administration at· taches to peacemaking in the Middle East," Clinton said In a statement Thursday announc­Ing the eight-day trip by War· ren Christopher. 
Christnpher was optimistic his first overseas venture wnuld succeed. "I think we will see a resumption of the peace process at an early date." he said while posing for pictures in his office with visiting German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel. 
Clinton said "This is a historic moment," adding the peace process "can slip away all too easily." 
Christopher is due to leave for Israel on Feb. 17. Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said the secretary would remain in the area until Feb. 24, visiting Arab countries as well, and then make some stops In Western Europe before flying home. 
He plans to meet along the way with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev. They 
are expected to make prepara­
tions for a summit meeting 
between Clinton and Russian 
President Boris Yeltsin. 
Over the last two days, a se­nior U.S. official said, Christo­pher spoke on the telephone with Kozyrev, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel, King Hussein and Prime Minister Zaid bin Shaker of Jordan, Foreign Ministers Farouk Shaara of Syria, Amre Moussa of Egypt and Prince Saud of Saudi Arabia, Prime Minister Rafiq Harlri of Lebanon and Faisal Husseini, a leading Palestinian. 
All the leaders, including Husseini, reaffirmed their commitment to the peace pro~ cess "and the importance of getting back to the negotiating table," the senior official said at a briefing under rules that shielded his identity. 
But Riyad Mansour, the deputy observer for the Pales­tine Liberation Organization at the United Nations, told The Associated Press the Palestini· ans would not attend negotia­tions until the deportation issue is settled. 
"It is really difficult to see how the peace process could resume while Israel is illegally continuing with this position of obstructing the work of the Se· curity Council, .. Mansour said 
Police in India battle group 
BOMBAY, India (AP) -"Let it burn," a voice from the police control room told a street patrol as a Muslim shop went up in flames. But don't torch Hindu property, came the order. 
That and other secretly taped police dispatches are at the heart of a courtroom battle be­tween police and a human rights group that has accused police of taking part in last month's Hindu riots against Muslims. 
At least 600 people died and 1,200 people were injured in the nine days of mob fury that shattered the cosmopolitan im­age of Bombay, India's largest city and financial capital. 
Authorities kept no break­down of the ethnic identities of the victims, but Muslim news­paper editor Shahid Siddiqui said at least 80 percent were Muslims. 
Two threads of fear ran through the orgy of violence: that Muslims were in danger just for being Muslims, and that police would do nothing to stop the rampaging Hindus calling for Muslim blood. 
"The tapes show the strong communal bias of the Bombay police," said Asghar Ali Engi­neer, the director of the Insti· tute of Islamic Studies in Bom­bay. "This has been happening in Bombay for years, whenever there is Hindu-Muslim vio­lence." 
A reporter for Business India magazine who said she moni­tored and recorded police fre­quencies released an unofficial transcript to other Indian jour­nalists. 

ndvide®'" 
op~n 7 day~ a week • Spm .. llpm b<1MmtGnt of LaFortune Sturl~nt Cent~r 
in New York. 

Accordlng to reports from Jerusalem, Christopher told Rabin he did ~tot expect to be able to reopen peace talks. until ApriL 
In Cairo~ Moussa said Christopher told him the United States had decided not to resum,e negotiati()ris on regional issues until April. And Moussa said ]le expected a similar delay· in the talks between Israel andthe Arabs. 
The peace talks opened 15 months ago .under the prod~ ding of the Bush administta" tion. Araband Israelinegotia• tions inWashington were mak~ ing measured progress toward an Israeli..Sytian settlem(;lnt, and· alM limited .self•rule for Palestinians, when the talks ground to a halt in mid~Deceril· her. 
The expectation was an early resumption undet the supervi· sion of the Clinton adrilihistra· tion. But the Palestinians, al· ready unhappy with Israel's proposals for. self~rule that fell short of statehot!d, tlew into a rage over Israel's deportation of some 400 Palestinians· on Dec.17. 
Christopher reached an agreement last· Monday with Israel to get alt the e~iled Palestinians returned from a· tent encampment in Lebanon bythe end ofthe year; 
----~­
Friday, February 5, 1993 

U.N.: 1,000 years needed for full sex equality in world 
GENEVA (AP) -It will take nearly 1,000 years for women to gain the same economic and political clout as men if current trends continue, a U.N. report predicted Thursday. 
And women are badly needed in top positions if the world aspires to make advancements in social equality, said the re­port by the International Labor Organization. 
"Women tend to speak with a different voice, which as a rule lays stress on the social ethos of development, that is to say ed­ucation, health, children, envi­ronment, dialogue and peace," the report said. 
Men concentrate on economic challenges such as production, 


n 
tDEM 

3 

monday : 0pmwednesday 9 FEBRUARY8AND1 0 e 2 4:30pm 
spring@ DEBART8l9 HALL 
electronic mail 

demonstrated on your favorite 
news and discussion 
groups campus 

computer platform. The schedule 
of demonstrations is listed below. 
and worldwide 

pen to all students, faculty, and staff 
:!:."W-."$:00 .'$:0.)-."l:."W 
suN discussion 
e-mail
room.JQ2 groups Macintosh discussion
e-mail 

DOS!Windows e-mail discussion room 120 groups 
discussion groups 
trade profitability, finance, technology and national defense, it said. 
But "if we really aspire to any development of the human lot involving both economic growth and social equity, the best way to achieve this will be by having men and women sharing in decision-taking." 
Currently, only six of 179 members of the United Nations have a woman as head of state, said the organization. Women occupy only 3.5 percent of cab­inet posts worldwide. 
The number of women in managerial posts, however, generally improved between 1985 and 1991, it reported. 
It seems like only yesterday ... 
Happy Birthday Derek 
Love Mom & Dad 
information 
."l:."l.)-1::W 
infl) access info act~ess info access info access 


·-------------·-------·--····-·····-···· 
L~ Users of 005 or Macintosh systems that have 512K or less attend both the Macintosh or 005 session and the VM demon­Tmemory may be unable to run the network software speci~c to strations to explore these alternatives. If you are unsure of your their platform. However, those connected to the network can computer's can~guration, student consultants will access these same services via the OUC Unix or VM computer be available in the hallway to direct you to sessions systems. We suggest that users of these older model computers most appropriate lor you. 
Sponsored by the Olfico ol University Computing 
-~---~--~----------,
~----~-­

-~ ~--~----~~-----------­
Business 
Friday, February 5, 1993 page 9 

BUSINESS BRIEFS Germany, Japan lower interest rates 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Germany For Europe, the German rate many's central bank, the Bun­
•wA HINGTON -More Americans are filing electronic tax and Japan applied the tonic of cuts could ease the instability desbank, to reduce rates. That 
returns this year, and crooks are still scheming to be<lt the high­
lower interest rates Thursday among neighboring currencies, would lower the value of the tech system, the Internal Revenue Service said Thursday. By Jan, 
to stimulate their ailing which have been battered by mark, Europe's dominant cur­
31. 2.1 million couples and individual$. h<ld flied returns . economies, a move that sent speculative selling since last rency, and make other cur­electronically, up 113,000, or 6 percent, from thesmne period a 
positive ripples throughout the summer because of the German rencies more stable. 
year ago. The IRS already has found mote thal:l, 35Qfictitio'us 
world and could have a returns and has blocked 98 percent oftll::e Pll:~ny ds 
particularly beneficial impact in claimed. The IRS expects.14 nillli()nt~l 
the United States. 
electronically this year! compared witll,.49~~--········.··... · The cuts in lending rates by Electronic returns, filed through selected tr~ the two most important U.S. companies, result in considerably fewer ettl)rs than p.aper trading partners were modest, returns, reduce IRS paperwork considerably and produee but they came as the U.S. econ­refunds three or four weeks faster than conventional returns. · omy was showing emphatic signs of expansion anyway. The 
U.S. stock market hit a record

Airline service complaints decline 
high on the news.

•wASHINGTON -The number of complaints passengers filed about airline service declined for the fifth straight year in 1992 
Economists said the lowerto the lowest level since the government begankeeping.track, 

rates would help keep lending 

the Transportation Department said Thursday; Last year, 
rates low in the United States. Ifpassengers filed 6.849 complaints about airline ~ervice. In:l991, they are followed by more cuts,they filed 7 ,532. The department began coJiip' ... in· 

the results eventually could

1970. The agency offered no e:xplan~ 
mean greater foreign demand 

consumer groups have said the air 
for U.S. goods and services,

expectations about service, primarily by offering r estimated further ensuring the domestic
times of arrival for flights. Transportation ;{)epartmimt 
economy's rebound. 

spokesman Bill Mosley said, "Some airlines may be altering their 
In the United States, thou­

schedules to make them more realistic. We think that's good." 
sands of jobs are tied to ex­ports, which at;:count for about 12 percent of U.S. economic activity. Exports have slowed in 

GM defends safety tests of fuel system . · • recent months, partly because
•WASHINGTON ~General Motors defended its compliance of the economic problems in 
with government safety tests. saying in documents made publit ·· Japan and Germany.
Thursday that the fuel systetns it usedwer~ ··· d-ifferent from "Those markets are essential 
those sold to the public. The statement c{t if U.S. trade markets are to be 
questions from the National Highw improved," said Michael Administration. The agency had asked w.. 
Hutchison, economics professor were equipped differently than those sold tO c() s; 'I'he 

Analysts said Japan's rate cut was less significant than the German move because the

Interest rates: 
Japanese rates weren't an 
element in the currency market 
turmoil. But the cut still 

economic tonic 
How the benefits affect us. 
signaled Japan's determination to stimulate its economy, a move that had been sought by the United States. 
It was unclear whether Ger­many and Japan coordinated 

~ 

u.s. 
German 
their actions, but the timing

Central and
Bank can 
was fortuitous for the United

Japanesekeep rates 
consumers 
States, where it combined with

low without borrow 
a spate of positive news about

fear of more to
investor 
the economy to incite a power­

buy moreflight 
goods. 
ful rally in the stock market.

overseas. 
The Dow Jones average surged nearly 43 points to a record of 
3,416.74 in some of the heavi­est trading in years. 

.~r 
American factories
• 
Germany's severe economic 

u.s. 
get more foreign 
problems have their roots in the 

consumers orders. can afford 
U.S. employment 
fall of the Berlin Wall. Re­

to borrow nses, 1ncreas1ng 
unification of the two Germanys

more. 
income and prosperity. 
has cost billions of dollars, and the Bundesbank has kept in­terest rates high both to attract 

API R1ck Gladstone, Wm. J. Castello, Karl Gude foreign investors and resist in­flation. That strategy set off a wide 
at University of California at mark's strength, said Larry imbalance between the value of 
company's response was made publie as an ... . a jury Santa Cruz and a visiting Kantor, chief European the German mark and other awarded the family of a teen who died in a truck crash $10!L2 scholar at the Federal Reserve economist for J.P. Morgan & Co. European currencies. Foreignmillion in damages, finding the world•s largest automaker 
Bank of San Francisco. "This in London. exchange dealers have been negligent in the design ofits "side saddle" fuel tanks. 
signals good news for U.S. ex­Germany's neighbors re­making big speculative bets porters." peatedly have called on Ger-against the weaker currencies. 
Top EC exec accuses Clinton of posturing on trade 
tration with many large policy questions," he said. 
He told reporters that he didn't think the Clinton admin­istration had decided whether to push for a quick end to the Uruguay Round, six-year-old negotiations to reduce barriers to trade worldwide. 
The 108-nation bargaining is under the auspices of the Gen­eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the world trade body. 
"I don't believe the U.S. ad­ministration has decided whether that's their policy or isn't their policy," he said. 
The world trade talks have been snarled by bitter disputes between the United States and the community, mostly over farm issues. 
Brittan criticized a statement by U.S. Commerce Secretary Ron Brown that the preliminary steel duties were imposed as part of an administrative procedure, not a policy deci­sion. 
"I don't find that an accept­able excuse," he said. "Those at the receiving end who are losing their market are hurt" either way. 

BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP)­Jacques Delors, the European Community's top executive, on Thursday accused President Clinton of posturing with threats to impose punitive measures against the 12-nation trade bloc. 
"Mr. Clinton has shown us his muscles," Delors said in a speech to Socialist members of the European Parliament, the group's 518-seat assembly. 
"But we need to give him a little time to preen in front of the mirror to make sure that his muscles are still there," he added. 
The community has been an­gered in recent days by Ameri­can threats to bar the federal government from buying Eu­ropean utility goods and ser­vices and impose stiff duties on certain European carbon steel products. 
Delors' comments echoed earlier EC uncertainty about whether the moves represent a portent of protectionism in fu­ture trade policy under the Clinton administration. 
Delors said it was too soon to judge the new administration's approach to trade and other economic questions. "President Clinton has not really taken any clear economic decisions." 
The EC's top trade official, Sir Leon Brittan, meanwhile, played down chances for a breakthrough in the transat­lantic trade dispute when he meets U.S. Trade Representa­tive Mickey Kantor in Washing­ton next week. 
Brittan described the Feb. 11 meeting as a "first encounter" that was unlikely to solve a series of trade quarrels. 
"At the moment, we have to understand it's a new adminis-

Tough times ahead for GM 
DETROIT (AP)-General Mo­tors Corp. was having an ex­pensive week before an Atlanta jury Thursday awarded $105.2 million to the family of a teen­ager killed in the fiery crash of a GM,C pickup truck. 
The decision in the Shannon Moseley case could make it worse. 
"It's unfortunate that it comes up at a time when they are trying to turn the company around," said David Garrity, an auto industry analyst for Mc­Donald & Co. Securities in New York. "The financial aspects may be significant. but it's diffi­cult to quantify." 
GM directors on Monday de­cided to take one-time charges that will ring up a 1992 loss of more than $23 billion, an American corporate record. 
The United Auto Workers said Tuesday that as many as 15,500 of its GM members may take early retirement, many more than GM expected. But GM said it thinks the $450 million set aside in joint training money to cover the costs will suffice. 
However, the automaker's fi­nancial picture weakened fur­ther Wednesday when Standard & Poor's Corp. dropped the company's debt ratings. a move that will increase GM's borrowing costs. 
GM common shares plum­meted on the New York Stock Exchange after the jury's $101 million punitive damage award Thursday afternoon followed the compensatory damage award of $4.2 million in the morning. GM closed at $37.75, down $1.37 1/2. 
The jury award following a four-week trial brought analyst comparisons to Ford Motor Co.'s 1970s debacle over its Pinto subcompacts, some of whose gasoline tanks exploded when struck from the rear. Others mentioned the mid­1980s case involving the al­leged sudden acceleration of Audis. 
"I guess my concern here is that this kind of sets a prece­dent," said Chris Cedergren of AutoPacific Group in Thousand Oaks, Calif. "If you own a GM truck of that vintage and you had a problem like that, you're going to jump on the band­wagon." 
Other analysts discounted the long-term impact of the case, calling it more than a nuisance but less than a crisis and "another pothole in the road to recovery." 
"I don't think it was anything unanticipated," said David Cole, director of the Office for the Study of Automotive Trans­portation at the University of Michigan and a frequent GM consultant. "It's not the final chapter. Once you get into the appeal process, that's a differ­ent deal." 
Meanwhile, the National Highway Traffic Safety Admin­istration is considering whether to order a recall of the remaining 1973-87 Chevrolet and GMC C-K full-size pickups with "sidesaddle" fuel tanks. Critics contend the design made the trucks more likely to catch fire in accidents. 
NHTSA was watching the At­lanta case, the first over the is­sue to come to trial, before de­ciding what action to take. 


Viewpoint 
page 10 
The Observer 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor .••••.......••.•...••. David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor •••..•••••••••••.•Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••••••Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ..•.......... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ....••••.... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ••..........•. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor •••........ Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ....................• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ... Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively' as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631 -4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The author of all 

Once again, 'gridlock' is the word in D.C. 
life is not 'some 

Dear Editor: already changed positions on Obviously, Pearson is not a the abortion counseling funding Perhaps it's time for a reality Haitian immigration and a government major (that could ban does not uphold the law. I 
benevolent idiot' 

check. Yes, America you were middle class tax hike. Perhaps be a good thing though, as ap­hope this little Civics lesson duped! It's business as usual in choosing to take early stands on parently neither Bill nor Hillary explains to Mr. Pearson why he Dear Editor: Washington, and "gridlock", the morality issues seeks to remember Constitutional law), mistook "how informing a much to delight of Admiral deflect criticism of these fum­or else he would know that it is women [on legal] abortion is Millions of my Catholic broth­Stockdale's imitators, is again bles. Congress, not the President who illegal" as the cause of gridlock. ers and sisters voted for pro­the buzzword. makes laws under Article I of abortion candidates such as 
Of greater concern, though, is our Constitution. It was Finally, regarding the com­William Clinton in the Novem­
Paul Pearson, Associate News the fear that the new President Congress' will, when it enacted ment on "sour grapes", Profes­ber election. These Catholics Editor of The Observer, in his and his staff are, at worst, Title X of the Family Planning sor Kmiec does not need my had sufficient knowledge of the Jan. 29 "Inside Column" ex­incompetent, or at best, disor­Act of 1970, to fund family defense, but Mr. Pearson should politicians' position on pressed his dismay with the fo­ganized. His transition team planning advice. The U.S. do some introspective abortion. They deliberately cus of the first few weeks of the gaffed by nominating embattled Supreme Court, in the Rust v. evaluation to see whether or chose to ignore the infallible Clinton Administration. Pearson Zoe Baird for Attorney General Sullivan decision of 1991, held not it is his own disillusionment moral counsel of Pope John sees abortion and gays in the and raised this suspicion that Congress did not intend or "sour grapes" that come to Paul II as well as their military as the issues causing initially. The next example is "family planning" to include mind. And perhaps, Mr. Pearson consciences, weakened by the the gridlock. Unfortunately, the the obvious disregard for the abortion counseling. should also take the time to commission of unconfessed and problem is not with Con­Constitutional process which read Kmiec's book. The Attor­unrepented mortal sins. gressional leaders this time. emerged from Clinton's Execu­Therefore such counseling ney General's Lawyer before The problem lies with an inex­tive Order concerning the ban need not be funded by our fed­making rash assertions of per­Our God, the author of all life perienced Administration on abortion counseling at fed­eral tax dollars, but may be sonal bias. is not a benevolent idiot. The choosing to blow its political erally-funded family planning funded by other means. That's cries of the murdered unborn clout on two especially explo­clinics and his failure to consult right, not an outright ban on We can all be disappointed children demand his response. sive and morally divisive social more closely with the Congres­counseling. After all you can with the "things-as-usual", in­Only Jesus' mercy and the per­issues that cut across party sional leadership and Pentagon still send in money from your tra-party bickering occurring in petual pleading of the Blessed lines. officials regarding the ban on allowance, Paul. Washington, reminiscent of the Virgin Mary inhibit God's chas­
homosexuals in the military. Carter Administration tisement. Since legions of 
That problem indicates even Remember also, that on Jan. "malaise". but why not put the Catholics and other children of greater problems, however, for As Paul Pearson specifically 20, 1993, President William blame where it belongs, on an God became the "new accom­those, like Pearson, who bought addressed Law Professor Dou­Jefferson Clinton swore to faith­inexperienced and curiously plices" to abortion by their into Clinton's centrist campaign glas Kmiec's criticism of Clin­fully uphold the Constitution chaotic Clinton Presidency. vote, the Lord's justice must be promises. The new President ton's move on the abortion and laws of these United States, considered as immanent. has shown no idea how to solve counseling gag, I believe it is vi­including Title X of the Family M.J.Heli the deficit crisis. No economic tal to remind Mr. Pearson, Planning Act, as construed by Notre Dame Law Student Recently Christ spoke to a plan was ready by the time of "Leave the law to lawyers." the highest court of the land. Feb.3,1993 woman in Texas concerning his inauguration. He has His Executive Order to ignore abortion. 'fhe Son of God 

ttXJI(, 800PSI8, I KNW YCU  HEUO, lr15. 8{)(}f'STC/N ~  
rAN'TSWING A I<EA/... 54/.AR.Y,  I a.JNNO,  THIS 19"VARJffl."PJ&'R&  
50J/ETPAY7AXONMY?IXI'AANI? BOARJ). It/HATI WANT 19 A ~16/0N/ 7H8 TR/.J7H IS, I CAN'T  ;:_ Z,I.,HOW ON ... J I  IAJIN6 A 816 5TO!<YON MCM8 Hf()Pl&IIHJAWJ/1? PAYIN6 TAX$ FOR. 7H!?/R.  6aJDO// UNCU3 /JU/(8.  
STOP 7H/N/(/N6 A8{)(JT llMOJ?R;W/  WM!STlC H£/P.'  
/  

'liberty has never come from the government. Liberty has always come from the subjects of it. The history of liberty is a history of resistance.· 
Woodrow Wilson 
Resist your own apathy. Submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
-------------------. 

--~------------~----------~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, February 5, 1993 page 11 
'You and Uncle Bert will have company in jail' 
Consider the following sce­the three of you did? The SEC's as they got word of Sears' No economist of note seri­Bob, take identical jobs at a nario: Your Uncle Bert is a re­main argument against insider problems. ously disputes the benefits of small company. At the end of search scientist for IBM. One trading is that allowing insider As a result, the uninformed insider trading outlined above. your first year, you have both day he calls you up and tells trading would be unfair be­parties in both scenarios would Even the SEC and other oppo­done well and your boss decides you that his department has cause traders like you and your actually be benefited by legal nents of legal insider trading to give you both raises. made a tremendous break­father would have inside in­insider trading. Currently, no admit that it would provide You get a 10% raise, but Bob through in personal computer formation that gave them unfair one can trade on information economic benefits to everyone gets only a 3% raise. Bob claims technology. IBM's stock will go advantages over people like until it becomes public, which involved. Instead. they merely that this is unfair and through the roof as soon as this those who sold IBM stock to you may not happen for some time. repeat that insider trading is complains to the boss, Mr. information hits the news, so and bought Sears stock from This hurts everyone on the unfair to non-insiders. Smith. Mr. Smith offers Bob the Uncle Bert advises you to buy your father. market because they are trad­How would legal insider trad­following choices: either the as much IBM stock as you can This claim, however, ignores ing on false information. ing be "unfair"? It certainly raises stay the way they are or right now. You do, and make a the realities of the marketplace. For example, if insider trad­wouldn't be unfair to insider nobody gets any raise. Bob lot of money. If insider trading was allowed, ing was legal in our first sce­traders, who would be able to chooses the second option. He is 
the market would very quickly nario, the owner of the IBM profit from their knowledge. It willing to give up his raise in reflect all inside information. stock would notice that IBM also wouldn't be unfair to non­order to prevent you from get­
Rick Acker 

For example, in the first sce­stock was rising for no appar­insiders, who would profit from ting more than him. You argue
In My Opinion 

nario IBM stock would start ent reason and would probably the effect that insider trading that your raise didn't hurt Bob 
A few weeks later two men climbing almost as soon as the decide not to sell. At the very would have on the market. In and that he shouldn't have any from the Securities and Ex­breakthrough was made be­least, the rising price would get short, legal insider trading control over your salary, but he change Commission (SEC) stop cause everybody on the re­him or her a higher price than would not only be fair to every­merely responds that you are by "to ask a couple of ques­search team would be trying to if insider trading was banned. one involved, it would also being greedy and immoral. tions." Guess what: Go directly buy it. Similarly, Sears stock in The Sears buyer would be simi­make them richer. Similarly, legal insider trading to jail, do not pass go, do not the second scenario would al­larly better off because he or The real objection to insider would help everyone, but it collect $200. You are an insider ready be dropping by the time she would either not buy due to trading, however, has little to would help insider traders a lot trader, as is Uncle Bert. your father sold his stock be­the unexplained drop in the do with fairness. Imagine the more than anyone else. To 
Let's take another example. cause every insider would be stock or would buy for a lower following: After graduation, you prohibit insider trading for this Your father has worked for selling his or her stock as soon price. and another recent graduate, reason is to think like Bob; "I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Murder of an innocent child? 
Dear Editor: 
You printed a very interesting letter on Tuesday, Feb. 2. This letter was written by Matthew Cunningham, who is forthright in a way that many are not. In his letter he grants that the fetus is an individual "child." 
He says. "In the case of abor­tion, there are two conflicting interests; the mother and the unborn child. The fetus' 'right to live' is at times in conflict with the mother's right to de­termine whether or not she wants to reproduce." 
I find it very refreshing that Cunningham recognizes the existence of a conflict. that two human beings are involved in the decision to abort. 
The Senate report, 97th Congress, S-158 concludes that "physicians, biologists, and other scientists agree that con­ception marks the beginning of the life of the human be­ing...There is overwhelming agreement on this point in countless medical, biological, and scientific writings." (1st Session 1981, p. 7) 
But if the fetus is a child, then why does the woman still have the "right to determine whether or not she wants to reproduce"? If she has already produced a "child," hasn't she already reproduced? 
An even more disturbing question arises. If conception results in a "child," is it an in­nocent child? If the child is in­nocent then why isn't taking his/her life murder? Is the tak­ing of innocent human life ever an acceptable solution? 
Brian Kelly University Village Feb.2,1993 

'Debartolophobia' forgets about the people 
Dear Editor: assure you, it has made a world phone to call Carol Larkin in How about Ursula Williams? 
I wish to respond to the letter of difference. Let me introduce Master Control and chat with She sent you that questionnaire regarding DeBartolo Hall from you to the doors of DeBartolo: her about the audio CD I have asking what you would like to Paul R. McDowell published in There's Steve Price, the playing Elton John on program see to support your educational The Observer Monday Feb. 1, Building Manager, who took me 3 today. Seems he's singing an technology efforts. Mike Miller? 1993. While claiming not to be on the real tour of DeBartolo octave higher than his normal A Macintosh wizard who got a a disgruntled technophobe, Mr. when it was not yet complete. self. In a matter of seconds, she sophisticated computer simula­McDowell uses adjectives such We went into those "murky has Ron Fanelli or one of the tion running when no one else as "murky" and "disturbing" to bowels" that say "Authorized other student attendants switch could. Dorothy Wilcox? She describe the facility, and wor­Personnel Only," and saw how the CD to another machine, and helped me tap into my DeBar­ries about the "horror stories" the layout of the building is Elton's back to Saturday Night tolo files from practically any­occurring in the "bowels" of ingeniously arranged to Fighting. Didn't have to carry a where on campus. "Central Command." Actually, maximize the connection of machine into class, or a broken Paul, that does sound rather many classrooms to a single one out to be replaced. Of Of course there have been in­DeBartolophobic. But thanks for computer network. course, my student Paul conveniences and snafus. No the invitation to dialogue. MacKenzie says he has trouble system as capable (and com­
We stood in the 450 seat audi­taking a quiz with "Don't Go plex) can be expected to work 
My own experience with De­torium and marveled at how Breakin' My Heart" playing perfectly from the start. That's Bartolo Hall is of a considerably the acoustics permit a normal faintly overhead, so he'll have where I'll bet Sister Elaine, the lighter tone, pretty much that of voice on the stage to be heard to bring me his own CD for us Director of Educational Media, a child playing with an in the last row. We smiled at the to play during the class break. spends most of her time -fig­outrageously expensive toy. I cost of individual light fixtures Metallica, probably. Or Nirvana. uring out ways to make DeBar­just know someone's going to and coat hooks, knowing that, In the Media Resource Center tolo better. (By the way, I don't find out I'm having a ton of fun as always, Notre Dame does it after class, Bobbi McMahon think going backwards to with it, and will take it away. In first class or doesn't do it at all. shows me how to look up a videotape machines in every fact, I had so much fun with historical video snippet stored room is one of them.) only two lectures there last Meet Tom Laughner and Joe on a laserdisc encyclopedia. As semester that this semester I've Williams, consultants for the I watch the Space Shuttle You see, Paul, I find DeBar­transferred all my classes from DOS and Macintosh systems, in Columbia's thunderous inaugu­tolo to be something quite dif­a new classroom in Pasquerilla the Office of University Comput­ral launch, I recall that I was a ferent than your monolith with Center (right down the stairs ing. Six months ago I couldn't student here at Notre Dame optic fibrosis. The doors of my from my office) to DeBartolo digitize a digital watch. But when I watched it live, and I DeBartolo are the people I've Hall, a good quarter mile hike with their help and a whole lot make a note to save it for a fu­mentioned and the dozens of through the elements. of questions, I can now convert ture presentation. others whose daily job it is to 
I've barely begun to tap the color photographs, 3/4" video ensure that you can do yours as myriad capabilities of this video clips, laserdisc animation se­Do you know Lori Goffeney in effectively and creatively as arcade-cum-teaching tool, quences, and all sorts of other the Registrar's Office? I do -at possible. Let them show you partly because I just haven't yet stuff into computer bits and least, I know her voice. She's into this incredible facility, and imagined what to do with it, but pieces, which I then use to wow the one who helped me move how it works for you. Then I 
also because the building was my students (and craftily teach into a DeBartolo classroom think you will realize that the designed to keep up with prac­them something while I slake equipped with my particular building is itself another door ­tically anything I can think of. their video thirst). flavor of computer chip. Or Amy one to a way of teaching that Marshall, whose trying to get until now we'd only dreamt Perhaps you came to your Say hello to Lanh Hemphill in me an "air mouse"? Or Dave about. 
DeBartolo classroom through the front office of Educational Mastic, who ensures the correct the front door, and if so, I can Media. She gave me my key to configuration of the machines I Lt. Jim Jenista, USN understand your sense of being those Media-on-Call boxes and use? Or Shiree Moreland and Assistant Professor of overwhelmed by its hidden and introduced me to Mike Langth­Marguerite Williams, who Naval Science centralized operating system. orne, who showed me how to coordinate the computer 224 Pasquerilla Center But I came to DeBartolo use them. minicourses I take? Feb.2,1993 through the people door, and I Now I can pick up the Bart­
----------~--­


FEBRUARY 5·8 
weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC 
Big Sky, 9:30 p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ XVZ Affair, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Bridget's Sinus Fiction, 10:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m., Corby's 
EVENTS 
Rev. Jesse Jackson, 7 p.m., Notre Dame-Stepan Center Ice Skating, 6:30-8:15 p.m.; 8:45-10:30 p.m., JACC, $1 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 
An Evening of Cole Porter, 8 p.m., Morris Civic Auditorium, 284-9190, $ Big Sky, 9:30p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ Sea of Words, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Club 23 Acoustic Cafe; Battle of the Bands, 9:30 p.m. to 12 a.m., Saint Mary's CoffeeHouse 
EVENTS 
Storytelling At The Snite, "Love and Romance, True or False," 10:30-11:30 a.m., Notre Dame, Snite Museum of Art, Making Maple Syrup At Home,1 0 a.m., Bendix Woods, 654-3155, $ 
s y 
EVENTS 
Sportscard, Comic, Coin and Collectibles Show, 
10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., LaPorte Holiday Inn AID Benefit and Awareness Program, 8 p.m., IUSB-Campus Auditoruim, 237-42D3, $ 

Cushing Auditorium 
Flatliners, Friday, 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Single White Female, Saturday, 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Univ. Park West 
Scent of a Woman, 1 :30, 4:45, & 8 p.m. 
Aladdin, 1 :15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:25, & 9:25p.m. 
Aspen Extreme, 2, 4:30, 7:15, & 9:45p.m. 
Unlv. Park East 
Children of the Corn II, 1:10, 3:10, 5:10, 7:10 & 9:10p.m. 
A Few Good Men, 1, 4, 7, & 9:50 p.m. 
Forever Young, 1:10, 3:15, 5:20, 7:25, & 9:30p.m. 
Used People, 1:50,4:15,7:15, & 9:35p.m. 
Nowhere To Run, 1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, & 9:40 p.m. 

~~ Pizza Hut 291-9400; $11.48"ll' ,i"_l, Appearance "Deceivingly innocent;" "Reminds
•_ ,, ,_me of when I was bed-lain with small pox;" 
"Shiny, happy Pizza;" "Looks can be deceiving;" 
"It reflects light." Smell "Smells like a wet dog!" "I like it. I like 
it;" "Are these McDonald's French Fries in disguise?" 
Taste "Corporate pizza;" "Like a dough brick." 
Grease-factor "You would think they poured grease on top-hey, 
I think they did;" "The light dances off the top layer of grease-it's 
rather poetic." 

Cheese-factor "The combo of cheeses is different;" "Looked like 
an aerobic session at the Rock;" "Skimpy. Skimpy. Skimpy;" "The 
cheese is straight out of a Swiss dairy." 
Sauce-factor "Mildly unassuming?" "Put some effort into this 
culinary delight." 

Crust-factor "I do like the pan pizza concept;" "There isn't 
one;" "Fried dough is not quite appropriate for this pie." 
Overall 2.7 "Blah;" "I really can't get past the smell;" "What is that smell and why is it there?" "If you don't expect too much you can have fun with this one." 
-~-Mr. Moo's Pizza 233-6722; $7.24 Appearance "It's a bad sign when a jack-hammer was
• needed to cut this sucker;" "Oh you mean this isn't a frozen pizza?" Smell "How can a pizza this repulsive looking not smell?" "Not too bad. My nose is not offended." 
Taste "It's not as bad as it looks;" "Feels kind of like you're hooking up with a really drunk guy, or a bad kisser;" "Once my tongue numbs from the overall taste, it's not that bad." 
Grease-factor "I can just see my arteries clogging;" "More grease than Little Richard." 
Cheese-factor "Does headcheese count as cheese? If so, then this is Wisconsin;" "Has enough cheese for a 9" pie (unfortunately, it's a 12" pie). 
Sauce-factor "Is this VB?" "This isn't sauce. This is red finger paint." 
Crust-factor "The box probably tastes better;" "Bark?" 
Overall 1 "Overall, worse than the microwave or dining hall 
variety;" "Not great, but not the best I've ever had;" "It's like being tied to a dentist's chair and forced to watch 'Studs'" 
Barnaby's 256-0928; $9.30 
..,.' •..it ·-xt1 Appearance "Unmistakable;" "Where are 
~~ ~my toppings? What have you done with my
• • • 'toppings?"; "Just looking at it turns my 
tastebuds on." 
Smell "The garlic-oregano smell may just be a aphrodisiac;" "Quite casual and laid-back;" "It'll give a man bad breath;" "Smells like the kraft Parmesan factory." 
Taste "This pizza just wants to make me happy;" "Spicy is not always a good thing;" "It's rather spicy-Is this pizza Italian or Mexican?;" "I can't say it's bad, but it's just not good." 
Grease-factor "Leaves a gar!icy residue;" "It's greasy. Is that good or bad?" "The pools of grease don't really add to the overall affect;" 
Cheese-factor "Rather rubbery-is it latex?"; "Hard pizza-quick style cheese;" "Cheesier than that stupid Home Alone kid;" "You could peel of the cheese and make a wallet out of it." 
Sauce-factor "Mysteriously blood red;" ''I'm just a saucy kind of guy. I need a lot more of it;" "Sauce gets lost in the mass of cheese and crust;" "Salsa or pizza sauce?"; "The best my lips have tasted." 
Crust-factor "Crisp, perky, upbeat, light, lively, yet not at all snooty;" "The spicy bottom assaults the tongue;" "Light and flaky, like a blonde;" "What crust?" 
Overall 3.45 "Just about the next best thing to sex;" "It's really not that bad;" "Left me disheartened and discontent." 
Special thanks to the courteous pizza places which donated their pizzas for the taste test: Bruno's Original Pizza, Rocco's, Domino's, 
Pizza Hut, Papa John's, Expresso Pizza, Mr. Moo's and Barnaby's. 

Pizza. Everyone eats it-it's c college student. 
When pizza becomes such a ~ they're getting into. That's why a effort to taste-test the pizzas of eil 
Because we in no way claim l cleanse our palates with cracker. mentality and tastes of average order, and every effort was made 
We took chances with unkno restaurants. See what you think. .. 
tAtfAtfAtfM. ~ 

"'., Y  Y  Y  ""Hu  
han  
Smell  "It has the Wordswo  

etic energy."; "A manly, leather. in the turkish prison"; "Amazin way." 
Taste "Powerful and throb one. I'm left speechless."; "It's everyone's invited."; "Thick, jui just won't stop."; "When I bite i and we are transported to the m 
Grease-factor "High yet b down my throat like Jello gelati you take a bite and it oozes onto 
Cheese-factor "A fine bien "Couldn't ask for anything more Sauce-factor "Not enou "Taunting, teasing, sensual." 
Cru~t-{.actor , "~electable."; more. ; Superb. ; Makes me "Big, full-flavored" 
Overall rating 4.59 "The much, nothing else will do."; " "I'd sell my first-born for it." 


Jf life, it's important for eaters to know exactly what 

courageous members of our staff took the time and appearanc?-· s~ell, taste, grease, cheese, sauce a~d different places in the South Bend area crust..considermg a~ these fac!ors, an overall ratmg 
. · . was giVen to each pizza. The pizzas were rated on a

)e gourrT}et ptzza experts (although ~e dtd _try to 'tween ptzzas), we approached our revtews wtth the ~ge students. The pizzas were eaten in no specific efair and impartial. 1mes popular delivery places and authentic Italian 
, ' 
I I
'o's 288-3320; $13.75 
ranee "Large and cheesy."; Too much for one woman to 
; "It's so big!" n, thought provoking funnel of po­."; "It reminds me of my time spent ever knew my nose could feel that 
"; "There's no way to describe this there's a party in my mouth and ·asing to my pallet."; "A pizza that 
Bruno's pizza the lights go down, al forests of Sicily." 
,ial."; "Just enough to let it slide 
s. "; "You don't really notice it until hands."; "Just enough." o-cheeses."; "Gooey and chewy."; 
eeps on stringing." this eater."; "Invisible but good."; 
get crust 'till you can't crust no 
o wrap my bare hands around it."; 
f pizzas."; "When you've had this Live it. Love it."; ''I'd die for it."; 
Our twelve-member panel spent an entire afternoon weighing the following-factors: 
scale from one to five, five being best. The phone number and price of a large pepperoni pizza for each pizza place-is .listed. E~ch judge was asked to comment on the differe~t pizza factm:s. All of the ~mment~ were .then revrewed and edited, ~nd the 
most enhghtenrng cmnments have been pnnted. 


.fAl>&t• Papa John's 271-1177; $7.30 
V V V Appearance "Can a pizza have measles?;" "Polka dot pizza adds a festive touch;" "Congruent and freckled." 
Smell "Smells very Papa John-ny;" "Smells like a pizza supposed to;" "We have achieved ethanol;" "Annoying;" "When you walk into a room, you know its there." 
Taste "The sauce, spice, cheese and crust have better balance than a Buddhist monk;" "Interesting-a diner's delight" 
Grease-factor "A single two-ply napkin could soak up the surface oil;" "Like Goldilocks said. this is just right;" "River o' grease;" "Contributes to overall feeling of the pizza." 
Cheese-factor "It leaves me feeling fresh and clean all day long;" "Curdled-like the expiration date was 1985;" "Dangerous." 
Sauce-factor "Tangy and perky;" "Straight out of a New York pizzeria;" "All the taste, without the attitude;" "Lacking." Crust-factor "Could be a little more self-assertive;" "Airy, not heavy." 
Overall 3.8 "Best buy for cheap pizza;" "An out of body experience;" "Like a pleasant first date: happy and fun without coming on too strong;" "All elements work well together-it's a team pizza." 

• -~. Expresso 255-0030; $10.15 ---_-App~arance "Average. I was neither moved toward ••-happmess nor morally offended;" "Looks very
1 
normal. Something to be framed, not eaten." 
Smell "Beef Jerky pie." 
Taste "Just not good;" "Like a frozen pizza-bourgeoisie and 
frustrating." 
Grease-factor "The box is deceiving. It looks like there is lots of 
it, but you can't taste it. Is that good or bad?" 
Cheese-factor "Cheese? What cheese?" "Kind of rubbery. If I 
want rubber in my mouth, I don't want it to be dripping with red 
stuff." 
Sauce-factor "Tremendous combination of crushed tomatoes 
and paint thinner;" "One can find more excitement in the 
seminary on Monday night;" "Tantalizing-NOT!" "Kinda sparse." 
-

Crust-factor "Flour residue a plus;" "The saving grace." 
Overall rating 2 "Pretty, but no personality;" "Dido't 
move me at all. I wouldn't die for it. In fact, I seem to have 
forgotten it already." 
' Domino's {thin) 271-0300; $7.30
•1 Appearance "So ugly it could be a modern art 
1
••' ~masterpiece;" "Well proportioned; looks 
suspiciously like Papa John's." 
Smell "New Jersey in the morning;" "Smells like a healthy pizza-what pizza should smell like." Taste "Highly saturated dough. Get an oven!" Grease-factor "You can spot its shine a half-mile away;" "Tar pits-I could have drowned." 
Cheese-factor "Not nearly enough cheese to cover this pie." 
Sauce-factor "This sauce inflicts emotional harm;" "I loved it-it made me moan with desire;" "The same as every other Domino's pizza I've ever had-OK." 
Crust-factor "Chewy as caramel." 
Overall rating 2.6 "This pie is as nasty as a drunk SYR date;" "A good, All-American pizza." 
o ··~--Rocco's 233-2464; $10.50 
~ • I Appearance "Heavenly-spices 
' seductively cling to the pepperoni; the 
cheese glistens, sparkles;" "It has an 

alluring, come-hither appearance that made me want to dive right 
into it." 
Smell "Am I in an Italian bakery?" "Flavorful aroma-it really 
started my juices flowing." 
Taste "Light and lively; tantalizing with the proper touch of 
spices;" "The taste brought me back to the New York-style pizza 
which I grew up on. It's something I miss in other South Bend­
area pizzas;" "It made me laugh, it made me cry. It was better 
than 'Cats."' 
Grease-factor "Minimal, but enough for flavor;" "It's greasy, but 
what pizza isn't? You just have to suck it up and deal with it." 
Cheese-factor"Not overbearing;" "A little less cheese than I'm 
used to. What cheese there was, was delicious;" 
"Perfect-absolutely perfect." 
Sauce-factor"What does Rocco put in his sauce? It's like heaven 
on earth;" "A little bland, but tasty;" "Tangy, with spices." 
Crust factor "Again, light and lively;" "Rocco's uses that strange 
blend of South Bend crust-the kind with yellow sesame seeds all 
over it. I don't particularly care for it;" "Crispy and chewy. Very 
good-and I'm not a crust person. 
Overall rating 4.6 "If I could have any pizza at my last supper, 
it'd be Rocco's hands down!" "Rocco's pizza is a delightful 
gastronomic experience;" "One of the best I've ever had." 
$Pfi¢j~(th,9_qls,s tq the daringtaste·testers: Dave Kinney, Paul Pearson, 
MatgQerit" SChrqpp, Meredith McCullough, Kenya Johnson, Jahnelle 
-----~-~---------------------------------~----------------------------. 
page 14 Friday, February 5, 1993 
On being asked to hang up the gloves as a priest 
Last week. a freshman's fa­
time I look out the window? Son sent from God, is the Alpha ther, acquainted with me I am lock, stock and barrel, and Omega of greatness. through this column. wrote a Father Robert Griffin unreservedly pro-life. Yet this However, His Chureh needs letter urging me to resign from freshman's father has made up improvement; and if Christians tlw priesthood. Since I am more his mind I'm pro-ehoice'? Why? could make their love of in love with my own falsn heifers loa Bonefy 9od Because, among other things, neighbor more visible, they tnaching than I am with the he's aware that I'm at odds with would be better witnesses to teachings of the Church, the pro-lifers who, allegedly out of the sandity of unborn life. man says. I am spreading error priest leaves his life open to the flesh and blood, I wouldn't lay a love for the unborn whom they Christians shouldn't be in and causing harm to those power of Christ's grace. guilt trip on him from which he cannot see, shout the loveless business to trash any of God's whom I have a sworn oath in might never recover. For nearly word "murderer" at the pro­creatures. Some take the high heaven not to harm, and this is What could I ever say to this 39 years, I've been on deck and choice mothers, who are con­road; some take the low road, scandalous. Uriah's lamb, the freshman son available to students, sick with spicuously visible to the and some would like to get you 
I mustn't be angry with him, of the father asking me to hang wounds not necessarily visible protestors picketing abortion on a slow boat to China. Hobert says this high-minded Catholic up my gloves as alter Christus, to the eye. clinics. Prost wrote: "Two roads di­parnnt, for recommending that that would turn those parental Often it's said of the lad "Murderer" is such a non­verged in a wood. and 1-/1 took I takn off the Homan collar, and hairs gray with worry. If the failing to make it in from the negotiable word. Christ was the one less traveled by,/And hand in the confessor's stole, boy said, "01' Griff, I've decided cold, "He was born to lose." The kinder when He saw the mob at that has made all the differ­since in offering me his I'm gay," should I, to please his saddest part of the story is that the foot of the cross, cheering at ence." fraternal correction in true father, fill his head with curses he became a loser on the day the death of innocence. He Gospel stylfl, he is only doing taken piecemeal from an someone near and dear to him, said, "Father, forgive them, for Gays are Christians-or what­his duty as a Christian. ancient code, so primitive that like a beloved father, persuaded they don't know what they are ever-going home by the less
-
The letter left me in deep it mandated women be stoned him that, as a human being, he doing. "Can anyone shout travelled road. Do they suffer pain. as it must have been to death if they were caught in had become a worthless piece "Murderer!" accusingly, from the effects of original sin? intended to do. Am I really a adultery? of dung. Next time you hear of a managing all the time to keep Do they sin and fall short of the false teacher, endangering the This Catholic father can't un­teenage suicide, you might ask any trace of anger, disgust, or glory of God? So do all the rest faith and/or moral outlook of a derstand why I hesitate to hang yourself why a teenager should hatred out of his face? of us. Did Christ die for their tenderfoot in Christ's Church? this Old Testament teaching, hate himself so much. I fear the Christian in whom sins? If so, every hope of Am I the devil's disciple against heavier than a millstone, In the evening of the world, the milk of human kindness heaven I have, they have too, whom a freshman lad, and all around the necks of other men's the Church will be judged on seems even for a second to have and His grace is sufficient for his classmates. must be sons who have sexually love. God is love; and as a turned into gall. What is seen all of us. As fellow travelers on protected by his father's love? If identified themselves as college chaplain, I deal in then-by the one who is ha­the road of the Cross, we can I were to say I have a father's homosexuals. trickle-down love. I could have rassedis a bully's face, a help each other as good love for this boy and for all the If this Notre Dame freshmen been a better priest, if I were fanatic's face. As often as that Samaritans. students. I could make myself a were to tell me, "Reverend Grif­more generous and happens, the witnessing turns laughing stock. fin, last year in high school, my spontaneous with love, more counter-productive. That's If writing any of this makes 
Any clergyman who climbs on girlfriend got pregnant, and I self-sacrificing as a lover. when pro-lifers become losers. me a Judas, I'm sorry. Believing a bandstand, proclaiming gave her money I had saved to I believe with all my heart these things is the only way I loudly, "The banner over me is pay for an abortion," should I, that Christianity's heartbeat is Will there be merit badges know of serving the Chureh as a LOVE," is under suspicion as a with his father's blessing, call Christ's love for the sinner, who waiting, do you think, for the priest. Peace to the father of a phoney in a class with the him a murderer, guilty of an is the near-neighbor whom I bullies who accuse Domer who wants to show me televangelists. Yet the priestly unspeakable crime? Should I don't love enough; sometimes, women-guilty certainly of the door. He should remember heart should be fatherly and accuse him of being responsible he fails, in his frailty, to love me making a tragic choice-of that Catholic mavericks give the motherly and brotherly and for making his girl friend a enough. How, asks the Bible, murder, on that evening of the Church its color. I hope he can sistnrly. A priest's heart should murderer, guilty also of an un­can I say I love God, Whom I do world when Christians will be tell by this that I'm not a be all things to all comers, and speakable crime? not see, if I fail to love my judged on their fidelity to love? maverick. I'm only a conformist can be, with God's help, if the Even if the lad were my own neighbor, who is visible any In my theology, Christ, the turning gray with age. 

•F,ycs 1n eachWttf from Chi~ based on~ roondtrip pur~. T~~<es rot induded ~d restrictlons ~pply. Cilll for other II'.O'Idwide destlMtions, boch one Wt!f m ro..ndtrip. 
Council Trawl 
1153 N. o-tx:m st, ~d noor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels Maga11ne! 

.~­
ILU**CIOJlaJrCuttl.nafu 
Happy 21~ to 
ND's Best Dressed 
Matt 
& John 


r-------------------------, 
J11~1\Tj[)
: Save 50¢ : fi. t 
I when you buy a medium or large shake: 1ne ar S concert : of frozen yogurt. (Original, nonfat, or 1 1 sugar free nonfat) I Ca11 Pete Matthews : Campus Shops : x1077 
I Can't BelieveIt's 3 S th B d A 

1 Yo~rt! 18 7 ou en venue 1 
: 

W•PutASmii•OnYou•TMt•!~ ;~r~:~?27£ :8 8 e9 F M W S N D L-------------------------~ ~~========~~~========~~======~==========~ 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MoNTANA 
Come have the best summer of your life. Enjoy the inv i gorating, challenging experience of living in the awesome 
Rocky Mountains. 

St. Mary Lodge & Resort Glacier Parks finest is now hiring for the 1993 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career & Placement Center, February 8th and 9th. 



Schedule an interview through your Career 
•suy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
DIAN RlDGE P·~"""iiiiiiiiiii~ 
IEXJTO~ 
GRAPe RD.• MISHAWAKA 
Placement Services now. 
2n-~ ~WtrN 
Sat.....Sun. 11-5 

Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime. 
Friday, February 5, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Mogilny, Bure can go head to head in All-Star game 
MONTREAL (AP) -For the moment, Alexander Mogilny and Pavel Bure can forget about their torrid individual scoring battle. 
The two will instead showcase their offensive talents at Saturday's 44th NHL All-Star Game at the Montreal Forum. 
Mogilny and Bure, 1-2 in the goal-scoring race, should be two of the more visible players in a game that has become strictly an offensive show. The past four All-Star games have produced a total of 65 goals, including a record 19 in the Wales Conference's 12-7 victory over the Campbell in 1990. 
Mogilny and Bure, the Russian stars, figure to be the stars of the game's goal-scoring barrage. Mogilny-"Alexander the Great" of the Wales Conference's Buffalo Sabres ­leads the NHL at the All-Star break with 50 goals. Bure -the "Russian Rocket" from Vancouver of the Campbell ­has 44 goals. 
Another featured performer should be Finland's Teemu Selanne. Selanne, a rookie with the Winnipeg Jets, has 42 goals in a season that has produced a wealth of outstanding European players. 
"I feel sorry for the goaltenders (in All-Star games)," right wing Mark Recchi, the Philadelphia Flyers' All-Star representative, said. "There are so many skilled players and so many nice plays made, it's hard to stop them, because everybody's creative in these All-Star games." 
Few have been more creative this season than Mogilny and Bure. Bure was one of the three Campbell Conference starting forwards selected by the fans. Mogilny finished fourth in the fan voting for the Wales Conference team, behind Pittsburgh's Jaromir Jagr and Kevin Stevens and Washington's Peter Bondra, but was selected for the team as a reserve. 
He was a more popular pick than some of the goaltenders. 
The picks, particularly that of Minnesota goalie Jon Casey, produced some controversy. George McPhee, director of hockey operations for the Canucks, was angry that Casey was picked and his goalie, Kirk McLean, was not. 
"We're flabbergasted," McPhee said. "I think it's an absolute disgrace." 
At the time of the picks, McLean had a 3.02 goals­against average in 27 games, while Casey, picked along with Calgary's Mike Vernon to back up Campbell starter Ed Belfour of Chicago, had a 3.21 average in 32 games. 
The reserves were selected by the general managers of last season's four division winning playoff teams -Craig Patrick of Pittsburgh, Bob Pulford of Chicago, Glen Sather of Edmonton and Harry Sinden of Boston. 

Of the three goaltenders for each team, only Belfour and Casey are among this season's goaltending leaders. None of the others is listed among the top five in goals-against average or save percentage -Vernon, or Montreal's Patrick Roy, New Jersey's Craig Billington and Ottawa's Peter Sidorkiewicz of the Wales. Roy is the Wales starter. 
Bure will be joined on the Campbell Conference frontline by Detroit's Steve Yzerman and St. Louis' Brett Hull, the top vote-getter. Starting on defense for the Campbell Conference will be Chicago's Chris Chelios and Det_roit's Paul Coffey. 
The Wales frontline features Jagr and Stevens and a player to be named to replace Pittsburgh's Mario Lemieux, sidelined with Hodgkins disease. Boston's Ray Bourque is one of the starting defensemen. Coaches still have to name a replacement for Brian Leetch, the New York Rangers' star who is out with a damaged nerve in his shoulder. 
The Campbell Conference beat the Wales 10-6 last season for the second straight year, but trails the series 11-5 since the current format was put into effect in 1975. 
Activities for All-Star weekend begin Friday night with a skills competition and oldtimers game at the Forum. Sunday, the NHL Board of Governors meets to 
-
discuss, among other things, the "Dream Team" concept of sending NHL players to the Winter Olympics in 1994. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the. Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING 287-4082 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 NO Ave & Howard 
Dissertations, Theses, Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277-7406 
50,000,000 
SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT 
\S~EI ~ 
Lowest prices, best trips -1 00% guaranteed! Cancun, Jamaica, & Florida packages still available from America's student travel leader. Travel free -organize a small group. Call STS @ (800) 648-4849. 
ROCK DRUMMER NEEDED ASAP FOR ND BAND W/ ALREADY SET GIGS. CALL JOE X3695 

ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: Between Cavanaugh and Zahm this weekend. a gold bracelet. Call634­1530 to describe. Ask for Steve. 
LOST: One girls "Kubisaki H.S." 
class ring with mens neck chain. 
Lost during the snowball fight most 
likely in South Quad. Huge 
sentimental value I REWARD. 
Please call Ryan @ X1691. 
Lost-•• KITE**, still in package, 
Sat. night between 02 and Walsh. 
Great personal value! x1951 
LOST DURING FINALS .... 
BLACK JVC HI-FI HEADPHONES. 
PLEASE 
RETURN. 
CALL 
4-1748 
LOST-gold bracelet w/heart shaped links on 01/27. If found please call Annette at x2644. 
LOST: One gold hoop earring bit SMC and ND after Keenan Revue. If found please call Amy @ X3878. 
WANTED I 
SUMMER JOBS!! Camp Birchwood & Gunflint Wilderness Camp, 2 of Minnesota's finest summer youth camps, seek college students to work as counselors and instructors. Employment June 8th to Aug. 13th. On campus Mon. Feb. 8th, Madeleva Hall, SMC. For an application contact the Counseling & Career Development Center, LeMans Hall. 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call 
Peggy 1-800-682-8628. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $600+/week in canneries or $4000+/month on fishing boats. Free transportation I Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call 1-206­545-4155 ext. A5584 
BABYSITIER WANTED, MUST 
SPEAK SOME JAPANESE. 
PREFER IF HAVE OWN AUTO. 
CALL MICHIKO 
289-1108 AFTER 7 PM. 
Driving South for Spring Break? 
I need ride to Dallas, TX. Leaving 
Fri. 3/5. Will help w/ gas. 
Call Lynn 284-5473. 
FUNDRAISER We're looking for a top fraternity, sorority or student organization that would like to make $500-$1 ,500 for one week marketing project right on campus. Must be organized and hard working. Call (800) 592-2121 ext. 308. 
Student Painters is interested in 
hiring highly motivated students to 
manage their own bus. we offer 
management training, credit 
backing, and a full support staff 
earning pot. $8,000. join the most 
successful painting co. in Indiana 
call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom 
Smith. 
I FOR RENT 
@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$ ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 
SUBLETIING FOR THE 
SUMMER AT CASTLE 
POINT IN A 2-BEDROOM 
APARTMENT?? 
for more info Call Angela or Laurie 4-2729 
@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$ 
3-5 person furnished house, Sec. 
System, wash/dry, beach V-ball, 
PRIME location, 233-9947. 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE 
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FOR SALE 
CONGA DRUM W/ STAND 
$60 CALL 271-1938 Women's lt.wt. 26 in. Schwinn bike. 10speed, red, like new, $135, call 234-7035 
Style on a student budget. '85 Audi $3600 or best offer. 271-0523. Leave message. 
FENDER GUITAR brand new '92 custom built from '59 body orignally 700$ asking 300$ or best offer desperate for cash call Wheels x1646 
SEPARATE STEREO COMPONENTS: AMP., TUNER, TAPE DECK AND EQUILIZER(good condition) $150.00 CALL271 1443 
I TICKETS 
Help! I need ND/Ken. tix. call Emily x5245 
I NEED 2 KENTUCKY GA'S CALL JEANNE X2645 
I desperately need 3 DUKE tix!! Please help!! Julie X-2993 
NEED DUKE TIX 
Call Aileen X4292 
We need MANY, MANY 
Duke Tix, both GAs and 
STUD. 
Please help us by calling 
289-5563. 
Does ANYONE have Duke student tix or GA's??? Call Kelly @ 2384 
Need Kentucky Tix 
2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud. 
Call Ryan X3596 
Help! I need 2 or 3 MAROUETIE 
GAs 
-Jill x2446 
I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS 
MARY X2862 
I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for Kentucky -Brian x1 069 
I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR 
KENTUCKY GAME! 
CALL MEG -X3884 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 1, 
2, or 3 ND vs. DUKE GA tickets. 
PLEASE HELP!!!!!!II!! 
Call ALISA @3196. 
Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. 
Will pay $$$. Call (708)835-2208 
Desperately seeking basketball 
tickets for the ND vs. Duke 
basketball game. Please call Kerri 
at x2764. 
need 1 duke stu 
sean x1067 I need 2 tickets for the NO-Kentucky Basketball game. 

Please call Cameron at 634­1723 ..... . &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& 
NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY 800-777-0675 EXT 275 
For two Duke tickets, I will sing a song for you. 
Kerri the Hummer x2764 Meep, meep. 
I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS FOR THE MARQUETIE GAME!!!!!! Please call Chris or Mike x1117 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED DUKE TIX CALL 289-5563 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED DUKE TIX CALL 289-5563 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Joel, get off the babysitter. I say this to you because it'll be Risky Business if you don't sell Skip tix for the Kentucky WildCATASTROPHE on Feb. 13. It's in your best interest (broken arms) to call Skip at x2052 and make a deal or leave a message. 
I PERSONAL 
AVOID THE RUSHI!!! Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day message, but don't wait until the last minute to type it in!! Classifieds can be placed anytime between now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The Observer office (3rd floor LaFortune). 
SMC & ND Summer Programs­London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284-4460(office). 272-3726(home). 
i'd walk into the fingers of your fire willingly and dance the edge of sanity i've never been this close in love with your ghost.... darmok 
$ $ $ $ $ RIDE NEEDED WILL PAY to/from Castle Point 
(I tutor for 1 hr) tues or thursdays early p.m. accdg to your schedule Eileen 4-2385 $$$$$$ 

If you are going to Daytona or the East Coast of Florida on March 4th or before ....... . 
PLEASE PLEASE!!!!! CALL LAURIE AT x2729 I WILL PAY$$$$$$$$ @$@$@$@$@$@$@ 
The Wisdom of Old Mushy Head ­A Blue Meanie never takes yes for an answer. 
No man should have to walk that far for Prune Tang. 
"Scooter Pie" 
***SPRING BREAK*** 7 nights Beachfront in Panama City Beach, FL. Discount ID card included Prices start at $109. Hotels filling up so don't delay. Call James @289-2683 ***SPRING BREAK*** 
***AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 1 0 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. 
Headin' to McD's, BK, PJ's? Not! Try a cheaper study break at SUBWAY 
6" meatball-only $1.69 6" cold cut combo-only $1.49 
plus daily footlong specials!!! 
SR 23 & IRONWOOD 277-7744 
A 
Smooootch! 
for Becky Martini. 
Can't wait for Tonight! 
-(Who else but)-Scot 
xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo 
Roses are cliched ... Violets are chez ... Buy a PW carnation ... and KNOW what is says!! 
PW Charity Carnation Sale at the Dining Halls 
Red= I love you Pink=l like you White=l want to know you better Yellow= Friendship Green=???? 
Friday dinner Monday lunch and dinner Tuesday lunch 
$1/carnation & we deliver to ND/SMC!!! Great for Valentines day and cheaper than any florist around ... 
xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo 
Toledo: 
24. Froggei. 
23. Where's the elevator, Amy? 
22. AI and Cancun 
21. Kay's swimming lesson 
20. We're lost, again 
19. Is our hotel in Michigan? 
18. I'm gonna urinate on Mike & Bob. 
17. Gravy 
16. What the ...is that noise? 
15. So Matt, when's that private showing? 
14. Guys, I think I smell alcohol! 
13. Could you please tell me what room Carrie's supposed to be in? 
12. Carrie, was that bathtub comfortable? 
11 . All right, so I'm a slut 
10. He doesn't have any pants on! 
9. No smoking -NOT! 
8. We saw the boxers -2 for 1. Go Matt & Pete I 
7. We have to wipe her. 
6. boone's & Schnapps 
5. Let's just wing it 
4. Casual commitments 
3. Friendship w/benefits 
2. l's so screwed. and #1 is..... me! 
To U2 fan from Wed., friendship is a two-way street M.T. 
Nothing to do Sat. night??? 
See the ISO (International Students Festival) in Wash. Hall, 8:00pm, Feb 6 
Great music, dance, and fashion brought to you by African, Asian, Latino, European, and American ethnic clubs !!! 
Tickets on Sale at the 
Lafortune Info Desk! 
Live 
learn 
and 
Love 

@$@$@$@$@$@$@ 
Top 24 from Mock Trial Trip to 
The Observer 

page 16 Friday, February 5, 1993 

University of Notre Dame 
Summer Session 1993 Course Ust 
The 1993 summer session will begin on Monday, June 21 (enrollment), and end on Wednesday, August 4 (final exams). Some courses-prima­rily in science, mathematics and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session

-Office (312 Main Building) beginning on Friday, February 12. Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1993 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 
2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 25. Instructions on the use of DART for summer and a PIN (personal identification number) will be sent to all continuing students in mid-February. Course call numbers, along with all other course information, will be published in the summer 
session Bulletin. 
Aerospace Engineering 
AERO 499. Undergraduate Research 
Mechanical Engineering 
ME 226. Mechanics II 
ME 321. Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics 
ME 327. Thermodynamics 
ME 334. Fluid Mechanics 
ME 342. Engineering Economy (London) 
ME 498. Engineering, Society and the International Community (London) 
ME 499. Undergraduate Research 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Graduate Independent Study 
AME 598. Advanced Studies 
AME 599. Thesis Direction 
AME 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
AME 699. Research and Dissertation 
AME 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
American Studies 
AMST 326. The Sporting Life: Athletics in American Culture 
AMST 449. Writing Nonfiction 
AMST 498. Special Studies 
AMST 599. Thesis Direction 
AMST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Anthropology 
ANTH 490. Archaeological Field School ANTH 491. Ethnographic Field Methods and Techniques ANTH 498. Directed Readings 
Architecture 
ARCH 598. Advanced Studies ARCH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Art, Art History and Design 
ARHI 453/553. Nineteenth-Century European Art ARHI473. Michelangelo and Art of the Maniera ARHI 475/575. Directed Readings in Art History ARHI 599. Thesis Direction ARHI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ARST 209/210. Basic Ceramics ARST 243/443. Metal Casting ARST 245/445. Metal Sculpture ARST 289/489. Silkscreen ARST 409/509. Ceramics Studio ARST 409W/509W. Ceramic Art Workshop ARST 433/533. Painting Studio ARST 435W/535W. Painting Workshop ARST 499S. Special Studies ARST 585. Photography Studio ARST 589. Printmaking Studio ARST 676. Directed Readings ARST 696. Thesis Project 
Biological Sciences 
BIOS 494. Directed Readings BIOS 499. Undergraduate Research 

DART will be available for summer registration from March 15 to April 2 and from May 3 to June 25. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during these periods; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 25, must complete the standard summer session application/ course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1993 will be $130 per credit hour plus 
a $30 general fee. 
BIOS 569. Practical Aquatic Biology 
BIOS 599. Thesis Direction 

BIOS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
BIOS 672. Special Problems 

BIOS 699. Research and Dissertation 
BIOS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Business Administration 

ACCT 231. Principles of Accounting I ACCT 232. Principles of Accounting II ACCT 334. Cost Analysis and Control ACCT 371. Financial Accounting Theory and 
Practice I ACCT 476. Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230. Statistics in Business BA 362. Legal Environment of Business BA 490. Corporate Strategy FIN 231. Business Finance FIN 360. Managerial Economics FIN 361. Business Conditions Analysis FIN 376. Business Financial Management MGT 231. Principles of Management MGT 240. Computers in Business MGT 382. Career Management MGT 475. Human Resource Management MARK 231. Principles of Marketing MARK 492. Advertising MARK 495. Public Relations 
Chemical Engineering 

CHEG 499. Undergraduate Research CHEG 599. Thesis Direction CHEG 600. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699. Research and Dissertation CHEG 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Chemistry and Biochemistry 
CHEM 116. General Chemistry 
CHEM 118. General Chemistry 

CHEM 223. Elementary Organic Chemistry I 
CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory !-Section 1 
CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory !-Section 2 CHEM 224. Elementary Organic Chemistry II CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory 11-Section 1 
CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory 11-Section 2 
CHEM 477. Directed Readings 

CHEM 499R. Undergraduate Research 
CHEM 599R. Thesis Direction 
CHEM 694. Directed Readings 

CHEM 699R. Research and Dissertation 
CHEM 699Z. Visiting Student Research 
CHEM 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences 
CE 498. Directed Studies 
CE 598R. Advanced Studies 
CE 599R. Thesis Direction 

CE 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research 
CE 698R. Advanced Topics 
CE 699R. Research and Dissertation 
CE 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research GEOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
Classical and Oriental Languages and Uteratures 
CLGR 200. Intensive Greek 
CLGR 500. Intensive Greek 
CLLA 200. Intensive Latin CLLA 500. Intensive Latin MLAR 402. Beginning Syriac MLAR 452. Syriac Readings MLAR 500. Beginning Syriac MLAR 500A. Syriac Readings 
MLJA 340. Contemporary Japanese Culture 
Communication and Theatre 
GOTH 201. Basics of Film and Television GOTH 205. Introduction to Theatre GOTH 221. Acting: Process GOTH 400/500. Asian and Third World Cinema GOTH 411/511. History of Film and Television Since 
World War II GOTH 461/561. Introduction to Film and Video 
Production GOTH 493A. Broadcast Internship (WNDU) GOTH 499. Research for the Advanced 
Undergraduate Student GOTH 501. Comparative Approaches to the Media GOTH 516A. Multicultural Narrative GOTH 516B. Contemporary Hollywood: Coppola 
and Lee GOTH 516C. The Romance in Film and Television GOTH 560. Television Production GOTH 598. Special Studies GOTH 599. Thesis Direction GOTH 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Computer Applications 
CAPP 243. Introduction to Computers CAPP 249. Self and Corporate Culture: Why People 
Do the Things They Do CAPP 497. Special Projects CAPP 498. Departmental Tutorial CAPP 499. Special Topics 
Computer Science and Engineering 
CSE 232. Advanced Programming CSE 332. Microcomputers CSE 498. Directed Studies 
Economics 
ECON 224. Principles of Economics II ECON 350. Economics of Labor Institutions ECON 421. Money, Credit and Banking ECON 498. Special Studies ECON 599. Thesis Direction ECON 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 697. Special Topics ECON 698. Directed Readings ECON 699. Research and Dissertation ECON 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 

Friday, February 5, 1993 The Observer 
page 17 
... -

Elecbical Engineering 
EE 222. Introduction to Electrical Science 
EE 242. Electronics I 
EE 498. Directed Studies 
EE 499. Undergraduate Research 
EE 598R. Advanced Studies 
EE 599. Thesis Direction 
EE 600. Nonresident Research 
EE 698. Advanced Topics 
EE 699. Research and Dissertation 
EE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Engineering Nondepartmental 
EG 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates 
English 
ENGL 301W. Writing Short Fiction 
ENGL 322. Readings in the Novel 
ENGL 328A. Children's Literature 
ENGL 4098. Writing Non-Fiction Prose 
ENGL 41 OA. Fundamentals of Poetry 
ENGL 440. Shakespeare 
ENGL 470. Modern British Literature 
ENGL 489. Religious Imagination in American Literature 
ENGL 498. Directed Readings 
ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers­Section 1 
ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers­Section 2 
ENGL 513A. Introduction to Continental Literary Theory 
ENGL 580. Early American Literature 
ENGL 598. Special Studies 
ENGL 599. Thesis Direction 
ENGL 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ENGL 699. Research and Dissertation 
ENGL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
German and Russian Languages and Uteratures 
GE 101. Beginning German I GE 102. Beginning German II GE 103. Beginning German Ill GE 240. Conversational German . GE 500. German Graduate Reading 
Government and International Studies 
GOVT 406. Congress and Foreign Policy GOVT 465/565. Global Conflict and Cooperation 
After the Cold War: ANew World Order? GOVT 497/498. Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599. Thesis Direction GOVT 600. Nonresident Thesis Research GOVT 692. Directed Readings-Government GOVT 696. Examination Preparation GOVT 699. Research and Dissertation GOVT 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
History 
HIST 311. Women and Power in Medieval Europe 
HIST 317. The First World War; European Society and Total War 
HIST 464. The Twentieth Century American West 
HIST 479. Religion in American Life 
HIST 490. Directed Readings 
HIST 590. Directed Readings 
HIST 599. Thesis Direction 
HIST 600. Nonresident Thesis Direction 
HIST 697. Directed Readings 
HIST 699. Research and Dissertation 
HIST 700. Nonresident Research and Dissertation 
Program in the History and Phllosophy of Science 
HPS 599. Thesis Direction HPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HPS 603. Directed Readings HPS 604. Directed Readings 
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
liPS 396/496. Directed Readings 
liPS 427/527. Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice-Section 1 
liPS 427/527. Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice-Section 2 
liPS 434/534. The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Suber and Freire 
liPS 477/577. The War System and Contemporary Social Movements 
liPS 501. Colloquium on Cross-Cultural Understanding 
liPS 530. Peace Studies Laboratory 
liPS 599. Thesis Direction 
liPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
liPS 692. Directed Readings 
liPS 695. Field Experiences 
Materials Science and Engineering 
MSE 225. Science of Engineering Materials 
MSE 499. Undergraduate Research 
MSE 598. Advanced Studies 
MSE 599. Thesis Direction 
MSE 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
MSE 698. Advanced Topics 
MSE 699. Research and Dissertation 

MSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Mathematics 
MATH 104. Finite Mathematics 
MATH 105. Elements of Calculus I 
MATH 106.) Elements of Calculus II 
MATH 126. Calculus II 

MATH 211. Computer Programming and Problem Solving 
MATH 499. Undergraduate Reading 

MATH 511. Computer Programming and Problem Solving 
MATH 553. Topics in Discrete Mathematics 
MATH 698. Advanced Graduate Reading 
MATH 699. Research and Dissertation 

MATH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Medieval Institute 
Ml 470/570. Medieval Latin Ml 497. Directed Readings Ml 517. Paleography Ml 597. Directed Readings Ml 599. Thesis Direction Ml600. Nonresident Thesis Research Ml 699. Research and Dissertation Ml 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Music 
MUS 222. Introduction to Symphonic Music MUS 310/510. Piano MUS 311/511. Organ MUS 313. Guitar MUS 314/514. Voice MUS 316/516. Cello MUS 498. Undergraduate Special Studies MUS 598. Special Studies MUS 599. Thesis Direction MUS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Philosophy 
PHIL 201. Introduction to Philosophy 
PHIL 221. Philosophy of Human Nature 

PHIL 225. Scientific Perspectives of Humanity 
PHIL 234. The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Suber and Freire 
PHIL 246. Ethics and Business 
PHIL 261. Philosophy of Religion 
PHIL 498. Directed Readings 
PHIL 603. Directed Readings 
PHIL 699. Research and Dissertation 

PHIL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Physics 

PHYS 221. Physics I PHYS 222. Physics II PHYS 499. Undergraduate Research PHYS 598. Special Topics PHYS 699. Research and Dissertation PHYS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Program of Uberal Studies 

PLS 410. Politics: Between the Human and the Divine 
PLS 411. Defining America: Founding Texts and Contemporary Challenges 
PLS 477. Directed Readings 
PLS 501. Augustine, Confessions 
PLS 502. Moral Development Education 

PLS 503. English Romantic Poetry and Poetics 
PLS 504. Gospel of John 
PLS 505. Rousseau, Emile 

PLS 506. Newman, Oxford University Sermons on Faith and Reason 
PLS 507. Darwin and Creation 
PLS 508. Hamilton, Madison and Jay, The Federalist Papers 
Psychology 

PSY 341. Experimental Psychology I: Statistics PSY 341 L. Experimental Psychology 1: Laboratory PSY 351. Child Development PSY 354. Abnormal Psychology PSY 375. Behavioral Pediatrics PSY 397. Special Studies PSY 487/593. Critical Thinking PSY 497. Special Studies PSY 560. Research Methodology 
PSY 561. Foundations of Counseling 
PSY 562. Group Dynamics 
PSY 599. Thesis Direction 
PSY 600. Nonresident Thesis Direction 
PSY 663. Psychopathology 
PSY 678. Seminar in Family Therapy 
PSY 691 A. Advanced Special Issues in Counseling 
PSY 691 B. Advanced Issues in Statistics and Research Design 
PSY 693. Reading Projects: Special Topics 
PSY 695. Research Projects: Special Topics 
PSY 699. Research and Dissertation 
PSY 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Romance Languages and Literatures 
ROFR 101. Beginning French I 
ROFR 102. Beginning French II 
ROFR 103. Intermediate French 
ROFR 104. Conversational French 
ROFR 399. Special Studies 
ROFR 401. French Poetry 
ROIT 101. Beginning Italian I 
ROIT 102. Beginning Italian II 
ROIT 103. Intermediate Italian 
ROIT 104. Conversational Italian 
ROIT 399. Special Studies 
ROSP 101. Beginning Spanish I 
ROSP 102. Beginning Spanish II 
ROSP 103. Intermediate Spanish 
ROSP 104. Conversational Spanish 
ROSP 325. Film and Literature of Latin America 
ROSP 399. Special Studies 
ROFR 500. French Graduate Reading 
ROPO 500. Portuguese Graduate Reading 
ROSP 500. Spanish Graduate Reading 
ROFR 597. Directed Readings 
ROFR 599. Thesis Direction 
ROFR 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ROFR 697. Special Studies 
ROSP 597. Directed Readings 
ROSP 599. Thesis Direction 
ROSP 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ROSP 697. Special Studies 
Sociology 
SOC 102. Introduction to Sociology 
SOC 205. The Structure of the Social World 
SOC 210. Gender Roles and Violence in Society
SOC 220. Social Psychology 
SOC 307. Issues of Prejudice and Social Inequality in the United States SOC 319. Sociology of Sport SOC 421. Sociology of Business SOC 498. Directed Readings SOC 599. Thesis Direction SOC 600. Nonresident Thesis Research SOC 655. Directed Readings SOC 699. Research and Dissertation SOC 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Theology 
THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ Historical-Section 1 
THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ Historical-Section 2 
THEO 224. Why God Became Human 
THEO 250. Roads to God 
THEO 500. Introduction to Graduate Studies 
THEO 500A. Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition 
THEO 502A. History of Jewish Theological Concepts as Reflected in Jewish Liturgy THEO 506. Prophets THEO 509. Intensive Greek THEO 522. Reformation History THEO 529. Anglican Theology: Roots and Branches THEO 530. Fundamentals of Systematic Theology THEO 532. Christology THEO 533. Ecclesiology THEO 534. Doctrine of God THEO 536. Theology of Grace THEO 539. Spirituality THEO 545. Comparative Theology THEO 551. Catholic Social Ethics THEO 552. Catholic Social Ethics THEO 553. Women and the Theological Enterprise THEO 560. Liturgical History THEO 561. Christian Initiation THEO 562. Eucharist THEO 563. Liturgical Prayer THEO 564. Liturgical Year THEO 565. Liturgical Theology THEO 5668. Penance and Reconciliation THEO 573L. Camps Review-Liturgical Studies THEO 573T. Camps Review-Theological Studies THEO 574C. Psalms in the Worship of Israel THEO 580A. Liturgical Catechesis THEO 598. Directed Readings THEO 599. Thesis Direction THEO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 699. Research and Dissertation THEO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
-

..... -•
,.._"""'
£) ~~ 
~ ·,~ 
NCAA SCORES 
EAST Caldwel 78, King'a, N.Y. 58 Connealc..C Call 101, MIT 71 Curry 80, Raga-Wlllarrs 51 Dominican, N.Y. 78, St. Joeeph'a, N.Y. 44 
E. ~arena n, New England Coli. 52 Elmira 85, Robolm W..leyan 79 Gannon 74, Mercyhurat 72. OT Green Mountaln 100. Lyndon St. 87 Holy Family 511, Wealey 55 LeMoyne 82, Union, N.Y. 72 Manhananvllle 41, Stony Brook 39 Maaaachu1181ta 64, Weat Virginia sa. OT Monmouth, N.J. 54, Robert Morrla 48 New England 70, Maine Mar~lme 57 Nichola 85, F~chburg St. 82 Alder 84, Long leland U. 78 Sallie Regina 54, Gordon 31 Siena 64, St. Peler'l 51 St Franc:ia, NY 78, Mount St Mary's. Md. 72 St. John Fllher 79, Keuka 88 St. Joeeph'a, Maine 103, Allantlc Union 73 St. Thomaa Aqulnaa n. Nyack 51 Stwens Tech 88, N.Y. Tech 70 Tulia 71, Arnherllt 58 Vermont IM, Cent. Connecticut St 88 Wagner 89, St. Francia, PL 88 Wheaton 78, Rhode laland Coli. 69 WNmington, Del. 116, Neumann 97 Worcester Tech 93, Suffolk 74 
SOUTH 

-
Allee Lloyd 107, Tenn. Wealeyan n Belhaven ea. Wllam Caley 80, OT Birmingham-Southern 110, Taladega 79 Bryan 1111. Tuaculum as. OT Canllbell sa. Radford 84 Chrlatlan Brolhera 88, Trevacca Nazarene 72 Clerr.on 83, Georgia Tech 80 Elizabeth City St 102, Bowie Sl. 110 Fau•-102. AJa.-Huntavlle 88 Georgetown, Ky. aa. Cent. St.. Ohio 72 Georgia St. 58, Meroet 57 Kentudty St ea. Indianapolis 81 L• 68, King, Tenn. 84 Livingston Sl. sa, Fort Valley St. 47 Loulalana T 8Ch 78, Jackaonvlle 75 Loulavlle 78, South Florida 81 Mary Wuhington 68, St. Mary'a, Md. 82 MeN-St 100, NW Loulalana 81 l.liaml 78, Belhune-Cookman 54 Mlllgan 78, MontiiNII·Anderson 85 
l.lontevallo 87, Athena St. 70 N. Kentudty 78, Belarmine 72 NE Louisiana 68, Nlcholla St. n Old Dominion 1111, Southern Mlaa. 84 Paine 87, Albany, Ga. 85 Perrbrcka St. 83, Francll Marion 80, OT SW Loulalana 110. South Alabama 81 Shaw 78, Allen 58 Tranaylvanla 75, Union, Ky. 56 Tulane 72, Virginia Tach sg Union, Tenn.QO,CurrtMw~. Tenn.67 VL Commonwealth 83, N.C. Charione 61 V~ginla 70, Maryland 68 Virginia Union 82, St. Auguatlne'a 71 Voome.. 85, Claflin 53 Wake Foreat 85, N. Carolina St. M Wofford 80, E111klne 80 

..... ..... ..... ...... ....... ...... ..... ..... ...... ...... %:'l\ 
~ ;«>:.,
0 . :. . ·: ·:. ::.. ::.. :. ..:: ::.. ::.. ::.. :. ...~ 0
• ~ ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . > 
~:#,r-• :: .: :: ••• : : :: :: :: ·•• : : ~~~~}t~5t
·-................ .................... .. ....... 
,--.;.,... 
MIDWEST Baket IM, McPheroon 88 C'-land St. sa, Creighton 60 Dayton 78, Duqueane n Delrolt Mercy 85, Butlet' 82 Drake sa, N. Iowa !ill Ferrll St. 85, Oakland, Mich. 80 Fontbonne 74, Webster sa Graoeland 107, Mlaaourl Val. 88 111no11 78, Iowa n lllnola Col 82, GreenvUie 79 Ky. W•leyan 85, Aahland 73 Lakeland 81, North-tern, Wis. 68 Lindenwood aa. Hannibal-LaGrange 83 Mac Murray 75, Parka 48 Mabne sa, Uoke Erie 71 Marian, Wla. 84, Milwaukee Eng. 60 Michigan Tech 127. Northwd, Mich. 86 Nebraska-Kearney 108, Hastings 88 Panhandle St. 68, Bethel, Kan. 67 Principia 58, Blackburn 52 Rockhurat 87. St. Mary'a, Kan. 55 
S. llllnola 75, Indiana St. 60 Spring Arbor 101, Concordia, Mich. 76 Tiffin 103, Dyke sg Wayne, Mich. 92, Saginaw Val. St. 88 Weatmlnater, Mo. 93, MaryvUie, Mo. 80 WOllam Jewel192, Benedlctlne,Kan. 87 Xavier, Ohio 58, La Salle 49 
SOUTHWEST Alkanaaa St. 74, Texaa-Pan American 61 Arkansaa Tech 111, M.-Montlcetlo 67 Cent. Arkansas 100. Ouechlta 88 Incarnate Word 115, Mary Hardin-Baylor 89 M~tem St., Texas 84, SW Oklahoma 83 NE Oklahoma 88, John Brown 79 Oklahoma Baptist 88, s. Nazarene n S. Arkansaa 70, Harding 82 Stephen F .Austin 83, SW Texas St. 82 Tex....San Antonio 71, Sam Houston St. 65 
U. 'II the Ozarka 74, Henderson St. 71 Wayland Baptlat 128, Concordia Lutharan 68 
FAR WEST Arizona aa. Stanford 81 Brigham Young 81, Colorado St. 57 Chamlnade 71, HawaU-HIIo 67 
N. Arizona 88, Sacramento St. 64 San Olego St. 72, Alr Force 62 Utah 88, Wyoming 84 Utah St. 88. Cal St.-Fullerton 61 
KeMh C-learwater GU Morgan Robert Friend Fuzzy Zoeller Greg Cesario Joey Sindelar Greg Twiggs Fred Funk John Adams Blaine McCallister Brad Bryant Lennie Clements Leonard Th01Tll6on Jeff Maggart Russell Beler11dorl John EUiott Larry Mlze John Cook Billy Andrade Billy Ray Brown John Flannery Dan Poht Andr-Magee Trevor Dodds Skip Kendall Curtis Strange Lon Hinkle John Mahaffey David Dgrin Ken Green Jay Delslng David Toms BIU Kratzer! Olin Browne DIUard Prum Lee M. Porter Perry Moss BIU Murchison Jeff Wilson Brian Claar 
Brian Henninger Andy Bean Neal Lancaster John Ross Rocco Mediate Larry Rinker Wayne Levi Grant Watte Lee Janzen Joe Durant Gene Jones Tom Watson 
38-~9 
34·3!>-89 33·38--eQ 
38-~9 
35-34-eQ 
38-~9 
34·3!>-89 34-3!>-89 34·38-70 38·34-70 35-3!;-70 33·37-70 34·38-70 34·38-70 35-3!;-70 35-3!;-70 38·34-70 33-37-70 35-3!;-70 38·34-70 35·3!;-70 34-38-70 38·34-70 35-3!;-70 38·34-70 37·33-70 36-34-70 34·38-70 35-3!;-70 38-34-70 35-3!;-70 35·3!;-70 34-38-70 35·38-71 37-34-71 36-3!;-71 37-34-71 35·38-71 34-37-71 33-38-71 36-3!;-71 34-37-71 37-34-71 36-3!;-71 35·38-71 36-3!;-71 34-37-71 30-41-71 35-38-71 35·38-71 34-37-71 37-34-71 

Kirk Trplen 34-37-71 Mke Donald 35-38-71 Bob Gilder 35-38-71 
Mark Calcavecchla  35-36-71  
PEBBLE BEACH, Celli. (AP) -ScoNe Thursdlly ett.r tha liNt round of tha $1.25 million AT•T Pebble Baech National Pro-Am, pleyad on tha II,7"·yerd, Pebble Beech Golf Unka; 11,810-yard, SpygleH Hill Golf CourM; end 11,8115-yerd, Poppy Hilla Golf Courae, ell courMe par 311-36-72: David Froat 33-~8  D A Weibrlng Jl~ ·Hallet John Inman Loren Roberts Mark O'Meara Tom Purtzer David Edwards  35-38-71 35·38-71 35·38-71 38-3!;-71 36-3!;-71 37-34-71 34·37-71  
Mark Brooks  33-~7  
Stan Utley  33·35--68  
Davil Love Ill  35-~8  
Bob Lohr  38·32-68  
Steve Elkington  35-~8  
Sam Randolph  34-34-e8  
Brett Ogle  33·35-e8  


TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to 
terms with Jim Poole, Jeff Williams and John 
O'Donoghue. p~chers, and Jeff Tackett, catcher, on 
one-year contracta. 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to 
terms wtth Lance Johnson, outfielder, on a three-year 
contract. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to 
terms with Kevin Appler and Bill Sarnpen, pltchens, 
on one-year contrada. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms 
with Kevin Tapanl, pncher, and Derel< Lee, outfielder, 
on one-year contract&. 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to 
terms with Melldo Perez. pitcher, on a lour-year 
contract. 
SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to 
terms with Russ Swan. pitcher, on a one-year 
contract. 
National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terrTS with 
Sammy Sosa, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms 
with Tim Pugh, Bobby Ayala, Larry Luebbers, Ross 
Powell, Scott Robinson, Scott Service and Jerry 
Spradlin, pitchers; Dan Wilson and Darron Cox. 
catcher~~; Tim Costo, Infielder, and Ke~h Gordon, 
outfielder, on one-year contracts. 
COLORADO ROCKIES-Agreed to 
terms wtth Charlie Hayes, third baseman, on a one­
year contract. 
PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to 
terms with Russ Morman, first baseman, and Tim 
Leiper, outfielder, on minor-league contracts. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Agreed to 
terms with Gary Sheffield, third baseman. on a one 
year contracl SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to 
terms with Trevor Wilson, pitcher, on a one-year 
contract. 
BASKETBALL 
National Baaketbell AHocletlon 
DALLAS MAVERICKS-Waived Tracy 
Moore. guard. Signed Lamont Strother~~, guard, to a 
10-day contract. 
DENVER NUGGETS-Placed Robert 
Werdann, center, on the Injured list. Signed Tom 
Hammonds, lorward, lor the remainder of the 1992· 
93 season. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 
BUFFALO BILLS-Fired Bill Pollan, 
general manager. 
GOLF 
T.C. JORDAN TOUR-Named Clyde Folk rules official; Jeff Harios operations director and Richard Harper media-operations assistant. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Assigned Jaroslav Otevrel and Ray Whitney, forwards, to Kansas City of the International Hockey League. Waived Michel Picard, forward. 
..
~ ~..) 0 
~ ¥# ~ 
COLLEGE 
BIG TEN-Suspended Andy Kilbride, Wisconsin guard, and Cedric Neloms and Matt Purdy, Northwestern forwards, lor one game lor 
lighting during a game on Feb. 3. ARMY-Fired Tom Miller, men's basketball coach. Named Mike Conners Interim men's basketball coach. COLGATE-Announced ~will drop Its Intercollegiate baseball program aher this spring's 
season. 
KINGS POINT-Named Andy Coen baseball coach. MERCYHURST-Named Joe KiiTball football coach. 
SAN FRANCISCO-Suspended Rich Klein, basketball center, from the team lor failure to follow academic regulations. 
SOUTHERN CAL-Named Mike Riley offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach, James Strom strength and cond~lonlng coach, and Tim Prukop, video coordinator. 
SYRACUSE-Named Chris Rippon defensive secondary coach. 
SCHEDULE 
Saturday 
NBA Sealtle at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Cleveland at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. Mlnnesola at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. Dallas at Denver, II p.m. Sacramento at LA Cllpperll, 10:30 p.m NHL 
AM·Star Game at Montreal, 3 p.m. TOP 25 BASKETBALL No. 1 Indiana at No. 9 Iowa, 8 p.m No. 2 Kentucky VI. No. 11 Vanderbl~. 3 p.m. No. 4 Clnclnnall at Memphis State, 2 p.m. No. 5 Duke at Notre Dame, 1 p.m. No. 8 North Carolina VI. N.C. Stale, 1 :30 p.m No. 10 UNLV VI. UC Santa Barbara. 11 p.m. No. 12 Florida Stale at Connecticut, 2 p.m. No. 14 Seton Hall at Boston College, 8 p.m. No. 15 Pittsburgh VI. St. John'a, 8 p.m. No. 18 Oklahoma at Oklahoma State, 4 p.m. No. 17 Arkansas at Florida. 1 p.m. No. 20 Marquette at Del'auI, 8 p.m. No. 21 Utah VI. Colorado State, 9:30 p.m. No. 22 Georgia Tech VI. Maryland, 4 p.m. No. 23 Georgetown VI. Providence. 2 p.m. No. 25 Michigan State VI. Minnesota. 8 p.m. 
Sunday 
NFL Pro Bowl at Honolulu, 8 p.m. NBA Golden Stale at Boston, 2 p.m. Orlando at Phoenix, 2 p.m. N-Jer11ey at Milwaukee, 2:30 p.m. Chicago at Portland, 4:30 p.m. Seanle at Detro~. 7 p.m. Miami at N-York, 7:30p.m. TOP 25 BASKETBALL No. 3 Kansas at Nebraska. 3:45p.m No. 7 Michigan vs. No. 19 Purdue. 12:45 p.m. No. 8 Arizona vs. California. 3:45 p.m. No. 13 Waka Forest at Temple, 3:45p.m No. 18 Tulane at N.C. Charlo«e. 2 p.m 

The Obse'fVer· • 
is now accepting applications for the 
1993-94 General Board 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The news editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsbile for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The viewpoint editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists, and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The sports editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, genereates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accomodations for reporting trips and is responsible for 

... the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The accent editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, oversees 
the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the accent pages each day.

f 
t 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The photo editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians, and must work

! 
closely with department editors is assigning photographs. 

l 
l 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 

t 
l 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged 

l 
to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates 

! 
coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's 

f l 
campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 

l 
J 
l 
l 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The adversitising manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertsing revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The ad design manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with the advertising department and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The production manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The systems manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is resposible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER TYPESETTING DIRECTOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience, especially with QuarkXPress, Aldus Pagemaker and Aldus PrePrint. The OTS director manages all aspects of the typesetting business, including client relations and new business development. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, Feb. 12, 1993 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
Friday, February 5, 1993 The Observer page 19 
Sliding Sonics continue slump 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Drazen Petrovic scored 35 points and put New Jersey ahead for good in overtime Thursday night in a 113-103 victory over the slumping Seattle SuperSonics. 
The Sonics dropped their third straight and fifth in six games. The losing streak is the longest for Seattle since George Karl became coach in January 1992. 
New Jersey blew a 19-point first-half lead and had to rally from five points down in the fourth quarter. Derrick Coleman had 20 points and 22 rebounds for the Nets and Ricky Pierce scored 26 for Seattle. 

Knicks 105, Warriors 101 
NEW YORK -John Starks, Charles Smith and Anthony Mason covered for the absence of Patrick Ewing as New York beat Golden State. 
Ewing, out with a hyperex­tended right knee, missed just his fourth game in six seasons. His status is day-to-day. 
Starks finished with 30 points, Smith had 20 from Ewing's center position and Mason scored 12 of his 16 in the fourth quarter. The victory pulled Pat Riley within one win or one Cleveland loss of his ninth All­Star coaching berth. 
Spurs 133, Pacers 115 
SAN ANTONIO -Sean Elliott scored 22 points and David Robinson added 20 as the San Antonio Spurs won for the 13th time in 14 games. 
The Spurs led by 33 points at one time and their starting five did not play in the fourth quarter. The 133 points represented a season-high for San Antonio and were the most points allowed this season by the Pacers. 
The Spurs are 18-3 under new coach John Lucas and have won 10 straight at home. 

Bird's number retired in Boston Garden 
BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird donned his old Celtics warmup suit and, for one last night, chants of "La-reeee, La-reeee, La-reeee" rained down from an adoring, packed house at Boston Garden. 
For one last night, he domi­nated the parquet floor. The crowd roared as, once again, he buried 3-pointers, saved the ball by diving to the court and 

c 1992 The-Ql,ve Gorden Restaurants 
HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 
SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
$5.95 
TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 

~~---._ 
Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and warm garlic breadsticks. -""'., It's all just $5.95. And you --,~ ~ don't have to be a math • 
major to figure out that 
OtiPf.~ • 
that's a great deal. 
ITALIAN KL'-,TA! IKt\N I 
WHERE AtJ.THE BEsT OF lTAr~· IsYOLJRs.· 
•Opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503. 

passed the ball behind his back. It seemed so real to the fans who had seen it all for 13 years. 
But they were only memories, video highlights played on huge overhead screens at a 2 112­hour ceremony in which Bird's number "33" was retired Thursday night, hoisted to the dusty rafters on a green-and­white banner. 
Bird could do almost every­thing on a basketball court. He couldn't turn back the clock. 
So while the lights were down as the videos rolled, Bird would rise from his stool and stand as if the painful back that forced his retirement was acting up again. 
Bird, never one to back down on the court, finally gave in to the agony and retired Aug. 18 after a 13-year NBA career. 
The star-studded show, em­ceed by NBC sportscaster Bob Costas, was held as a separate event, not at halftime or before a regularly scheduled game. Proceeds from ticket sales, priced the same as for games, are to go to Boston-area chari­ties. 
Parades of his former team­mates, video greetings from ex­opponents and an extended 
Celebn~tin
Dr.M . 

conversation with Magic John­son preceded Bird's closing remarks. 
"I never put on a uniform to play a game. I put on a uniform to win," Bird, who wore his warmups for the entire cere­mony, told the crowd in a pol­ished talk. ''I'm going to miss running the pick and roll with Robert Parish. I'm going to miss throwing the ball down low to Kevin McHale and watch him do his work. 
"Most of all, believe it or not, I'm going to miss the fans of Boston," he added. "Your voice, your excitement brought everybody to that level we needed to get over the hump. 
"I did my very best to please each and every one of you," he said. "Tonight, my basketball career is officially over and I had a blast." 
Then he took his 18-month­old son Conor from his wife Di­nah and walked with him to­ward the Celtics locker room as the song "Small Town," was played in tribute to Bird's rural Indiana roots and the number "33" rotated in green laser lights on the center-court stage he had left. 
ther King,Jr. 

Monday, February 8 7:30-8:30 p.m. DeBartolo Auditorium 101 
\n e\t'mnR of ~n~s. dr:un:.~, rt':.~r.hng.-. anll rdletllon.., by· 
Regina Coli. C.SJ. 
Dt.f~t.ITtmelll q[Tm.ttHtJR)' 
Lamar Guillory 
CW.•mor: Fuumct!'l f.fntlputer AppliLCIIimlS 
lou Holtz 

KarsonyaW~ 
(,ntdutUestuclelll. tutenummutl Peat.·£• SJ11dies 
Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 
.• Furmfimuatumc.a/1 Cmupu.~.\luusl11'tll 
, 
63J-').2-j2ur6H-~'fXJ 
(?JvV'lJS

..______IIljMNISTRY·------· 
--------------~-------------­
page 20 The Observer Friday, February 5, 1993 
..... 
Come out and see some good hoops 
The Irish women's basketball team offers plenty 

Last night I  common to many basketball  ated by a crazed psychotic. Just  
watched my  games, yes, even men's games.  because the team may lose a  
first women's  The Irish play scrappy, ag­ few games and have a player  
basketball  gressive defense and boast a  transfer is no reason to  
game at the  couple of tough and nimble post  threaten a coach's job stability.  
University of  players in senior Majenica Rupe  For example, though Coach  
N~~e~~:~lt ....l~ ...'L  and Knapp, a myriad of tal­ented forwards in juniors An­ MacLeod may take some heat for losing games against lesser  
of a supp~sed JONATHAN  drea Alexander and Tootie  competition, as he did in my  
lack of time  Jones, and super sophomore  column on Wednesday, it need  
and a Blue & JENSEN  Bowen, and a deep, experi­ not be stated that he has done a  
Gold card, I Commentary  enced backcourt featuring  terrific job and everyone is  
had yet to -----­ Washington, juniors Kara Leary  more than pleased with the  
catch the Irish in action at the  and Sherri Orlosky, and  miracles he has brought to us  
JACC until last night's game  sophomore Audrey Gomez.·  over the last two years.  
against MCC rival LaSalle.  They even have their share of  
I did not consider this  freshmen phenoms in Fields  And as far as the women go,  
unusual, since I was told that  and forward Carey Poor.  they may be the best-kept se­ 
not many students attended the  The Irish, whose record  cret on campus. No one may  
games and when from time to  stands at 9-9, can still achieve  know it, but a Notre Dame  
time I asked people if they were  their goal of making the NCAA  women's basketball game,  
interested in going, I frequently  tournament by winning the  packed with great athletes and  
·.  heard statements like. "I  MCC tournament here at Notre  high school All-Americans. is  
wouldn't be caught dead at a  Dame on March 8-10. This fact  definitely an evening well spent  
women's basketball game."  has prompted many Irish men's  for any sports fan. The Irish  
Well, I'm here to tell those  basketball fans to push for John  have five remaining home  
non-believers that watching a  MacLeod's squad to enter a  games, against Duquesne to­ 
women's hoops game is a great  conference, as this worked well  morrow at 7:30, Xavier on  
time, even if the majority of the  for the women last year when  Thursday the 11th, Dayton on  
campus currently thinks  they made the Big Show for the  the 13th with an appearance by  
otherwise.  first time in the team's history.  the Phoenix Gorilla, Butler on  
In last night's thriller the Irish  However, the team's record  the 4th of March, and  
stormed bark from a five-point  last year and Michelle  Evansville on the 6th.  
halftime deficit to upset the  Marciniak's troubles brought  
Explorers. 61-58. Led by 16  rumors to campus that Coach  A chance to see some excel­ 
points each from senior Co­ Muffet McGraw's job security  lent basketball at the Thunder­ 

LaSalle 
continued from page 24 
turnovers which resulted in 8-0 run, giving Notre Dame a 36-33 lead. The good continued as the Irish built ten point lead with ten minutes left in the game, thanks mostly to six points from Washington and six from forward Sherri Orlosky during the stretch. 
"Sherri gave us a great game off the bench," said McGraw. "And it took Coquese a while to get going, but a she got her game face on in the second half and really gave us a boost." 
Senior guard Jenny McGowen and Jenn Cole brought the Lady Explorers back with a combined eight point during a 12-2 run that was finally stopped by a timeout from McGraw and a bucket by Knapp with five minutes remaining and the score 52-51 in favor of La Salle. 
Both teams hitting a scoring drought with only a combined eight points scored in the next four minutes, but fortunately for the Irish during that times they were able to build a 57-54 lead. 
Two free throws by La Salle cut the lead to one with 56 seconds remaining, but on the ensuing possession Washington hit a 16-footer from the left side to lift the lead to three. 
A basket by La Salle cut the lead to one, but a missed three-point attempt by McGowen, resulted in a spree of fouling by the Lady Explorers. 
Orlosky's two free throws gave Notre Dame a five point lead with 20 seconds remaining, and despite a last ditch effort by La Salle, the Irish were able to hold on. 
"We showed a lot of poise there at the end, especially our younger players," said McGraw. "We had a freshman and a sophomore on the floor at the end, and they showed a lot of poise." 
Washington and Knapp finished with 16 and Bowen added 12. Tina Tunick led La Salle with 16 and Cole threw in 14. 
The win put Notre Dame at the .500 mark at 9-9, and also avenged a 69-63 loss earlier in the season at La Salle. But more importantly it ended a four-game losing streak. 

quese Washington and junior was shaky. dome, and guys, a great idea Kristin 1 Knapp, 12 from Based on McGraw's..stellar for a date with a former sophomore Letitia Bowen, and record in graduating players women's basketball player or 
How can

six from freshman sensation and winning ballgames, those just a fan, an Irish women's Stacy Fields, the squad played rumors were of course un­hoops game is something well with a passion and flair that is founded and most likely initi-worth checking out. 
people spend 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

When you finish 
their time 

reading your paper, please put 
like that? 

it back where you found it. If that is 
Congratulations

impossible, find a recycling bin. 
Val & Bob! 
The men's varslty l'l'>"ll'n" 

'J£an£You
will be holding testing on Interested parties should send 
at 52236 Ironwood ~
Interest, telephone ~!:?iii~~~~~~~~~~i~l 

Be Our Guest. • •
lnterhall floor ntu~klliv unelr~~·~·-•··~i;t~. 
interested should call 
WVFI 640AM will Droadc~ast 
starUng at 12:!50 

Be Our Guest! 
Ka~s wm can the 

Here are 6 more reasons to attend the 
Have a 

THE ALL-NIGHT DISNEY 
Safe and 

MOVIE MARATHON! 
Fun 

6. Goodie Bags to those attending
Weekend. 

The Rescuers at 1:30a.m. 
5. A Good Study Break!
8 8. 9 FM WSND 

4. A Great First Date! (FREE). 
3. Popcorn, Cotton Candy, Soda 
2. The Sleepover Your Parents
TUNE iN TO 

Would Not Let You Have!
CAMpus NEws WATclt 

1. GREAT DISNEY CLASSICS! -101 Dalmations-9:00p.m.
This SuNdAy AT 5: ~0 p.M. 

-Beauty and the Beast-10:30p.m. -The Jungle Book-12:00a.m.
TO hEAR WSND's choicE foR 

-The Rescuers-1:30a.m. -Fantasia-2:45-4:45a.m.
STudENT Body PREsidENT 

February 6, 1993 
8 8. 9 FM WSND 

in the Ballroom o.fLaFortune 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Forsyth plays sixth-ranked Mike Sell of the University of Georgia. 
Notre Dame's and Georgia's as the strongest classes for the fall season. 


The~~Kof a Ufetlme..~..19.93' 
81"GC1k awayt BI"GCik outt Big BGach-Sig Fun-BIG VALUEJ 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 ' 9:45 

Freshman Jennie Taubenheim sreaks down the floor in last night's Belles victory. 
Grace 
continued from page 24 
for 21 free throws in the first half. 
The second half, Saint Mary's owned the court by breaking to a 50-34 lead. At one point, Taubenheim took on three Grace defenders for the ball, ended up getting tackled and forced them to take the ball out of bounds. 
"This is the first night we 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
victory tonight. 
"We've got to recognize our defensive responsibilities," said Irish alternate captain Dave Bankoske. "They're going to be hungry for some goals, but on the other hand so are we." 
"We're planning to tie them up and give them fits," said Irish assistant coach Jim John­son. A former assistant coach at Michigan State, Johnson de­scribed the Spartans as a strong, fast team with a very experienced defensive core and steady goaltending. 
"We intend to give them ev-
Happy 
continued from page 24 

HEY JUNIORS! 

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1993-94 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
totally played like a team (since break)," said co-captain Kristen Crowley. 
Saint Mary's defense switched from a denied press to zone which caused the Lancers' passing to get out of control. According to Wood, once the Belles got their press in gear, the game came under their control. 
"We still haven't reached our peak but we're gaining steam," he said. 
Helping the Belles gain steam were Crowley with a total of 17 points, Holmes with 15 points and Snyder chipping in with 12. 
erything they can handle and more," said Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer. 
The rematch with Ferris State on Saturday should prove to be very interesting as the Irish try to avenge a 9-3 whipping at the hands of the Bulldogs last weekend. 
"I think we've got a definite pay-back coming up," Bankoske said. "We're going to show we're a different team than we were Saturday." 
"We need to compete better," said Schafer. "The game is full of ten-foot and fifteen-foot races to the puck. We need to win more of these races." 
The Bulldogs are sixth in the CCHA with a 9-8-3 league record, trailing Michigan State 
three fencers with a combined record of 6-2 before this season, all of that competition coming from sophomore Chris McQuade. Senior Bernie Baez is in his first year of competition for the Irish, but boasts impressive credentials from his high school fencing experience. That squad is rounded out by Chris Hajnick, who began fencing sabre the week before Christmas break began. 
reduce 
reuse
recycle 
But once again Taubenheim had the midas touch. She scored a season-high 28 points while notching six steals, three rebounds and two assists. 
"She's an angel from heaven, "said Wood. "She can do it all." 
Saint Mary's improves their record to 12-4. They play Goshen College at home next Tuesday. 
Guard Kristen Crowley is ranked number one nationally in Division III for three-point shooting. Saint Mary's College ranked third overall for three­point shooting. 
by two points. Their 14-10-3 overall record has led to a ranking of seventeenth in the nation. 
"They're not a bad hockey team," said Schafer, "but it's a team we know we can play with." 
The Irish lie at tenth place in the CCHA with a 4-16-2 league record (6-18-2 overall). They are two points ahead of last place Ohio State, two points be­hind ninth place Illinois­Chicago, and three points be­hind eighth place Kent State. It will be crucial for the Irish to attain some level of the success in their fmal eight games if they wish to improve their placement for the CCHA play­offs. 
So how has all of that turned out so far? A 14-1 record. 
The women's team blends experience with youth. Senior Kathleen Vogt and junior captain Dinamarie Garcia give the Irish experience on the strip, while freshmen Claudette DeBruin and Mindi Kalogera, though young, have plenty of fencing experience to offer the Irish. The women are off to 9-2 start. 
So don't miss your chance to see Notre Dame in its only home meet of the year as they continue their quest for the national championship. 

r----------------,
I I I I I  232·9299 American Cab Co.  I I I I I  
I I  "Frequent Rider Card''  I I  
I  Ride 10 times and receive $3.00 off 111ll ride  I  
"We appreciate your business"  I 

PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES : 
I

Call ahead for prearranged pick-up APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 I I 
L----------------~ 
page 22 The Observer Friday, February 5, 1993 
~~~~~~~~~1993Meyolnvnation~~~~~~~~~~ 
Men's track stars look to qualify 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team will continue its indoor track season this Saturday at Uw sixth annual Meyo Invita­tional. 
A talented liPid of 16 teams broke nine records at last year's competition. 
"This is going to be the best competition we've had all year," said Notre Dame head track Coach .Joe Piane. "The Meyo Invitational is very competitive in every event." 
One event to watch is the prestigious Meyo mile. Men's track team co-Captain John Coyle highlighted last year's competition. He ran the mile in 
4:05.56 and qualified for the IC4A indoor championships held in Princeton, N.J. This year's competition will feature John Waren from the Nike Texas team, whose best mile time is 4:01. Also competing in the Meyo Mile will be Mike O'Conner, a former Notre Dame all American. O'Conner returns to his alma mater as a favorite in the race. 
Another good competition is the men's sprints. Mike Miller, Lou Holtz's kick returner during football season, is the top sprinter for Piane. Miller missed qualifying for the NCAA championships in the 200 me­ters last week by one tenth of a second. In the Meyo Invita­tional he will be facing tougher competition than in last week's meet. 

"If he wins the 200 meters in this meet he'll qualify for the NCAAs," said Piane. 
"For most of these kids last week was their very first meet of the year. So this is a chance for our kids to open up and run fast and excel in the field events." 
Held at the Meyo Track and Field in the Loftus Sports Center, the meet is scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. 
Herman pops question and big jumps 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Todd IIerman, the junior co­captain of the men's track team, had a great load off of his shoulders going into last week's opening meet. Just be­fore the meet, the high jumper from Linton. Ind. had proposed to his girlfriend. And just be­fore competing in his event he had received his answer. "Yes." 
"It took a lot of pressure off me because I'd been thinking about that for a while," said IIerman. 


At 8:35 p.m. that evening, Herman took off from ground zero and propelled his 155-lb. body seven feet, two inches in the air. The crowd roared. Herman had never jumped so high in his entire career. 
"I've never even looked at that height before," said Todd. 
Nor had the MCCs. With his jump, Herman set a new MCC record and provisionally quali­fied for the NCAA Indoor Championships. Herman was also voted men's athlete of the meet for this performance. 
"I jumped a little harder to impress her," said Herman. Herman has made a quick ascension to the top. 
"I came in not knowing where I would stand," he said. "It was really hard my fresh­man year. I really wasn't very good at all. I lettered. but just barely. Then, my sophomore year was a big surprise. 
So now it's wedding bells and cake for the Notre Dame track star. Maybe when people get donH congratulating him on his engagement they can reserve some praise for his high jumping feats. 
Herman thinks that he can go higher and at the pace he's im­proved the sky may literally be the limit. 
Gates Toyota 
20% off to all 
students and faculty 
when servicing your 
Toyota af Gates 
Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available 
to Notre Dame and 
University Park Mall. 
Call 237-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.55 
"/love whatyou dojJrme." 
@TOYOTA 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM SATURDAY Irish Hockey vs Ferris State 7:00PM JACC Ice Rink* Women's Basketball vs Duquesne 7:30PM JACC Arena* *Free admission with Blue & Gold Card  
University Hairstylist LaFortune Student Center Relaxer Special Receive Paul Mitchell 2 oz. Moisturemist Free Call or Stop In Today! Ask for Mary orJanis Monday-Friday New Phone Numbers 9-9 631-5144Satg_r1ay 631-4518 We carry: Paul Mitchell, Nexus, Redken Products  

Irish women face tough 
competition at Loftus 
By MIKE NOABUT Sports Writer 
Coming off of an easy victory last weekend at the MCC Championships, the Notre Dame women's track team will host the Meyo Invitational this Saturday at Loftus Sports Center. 
This weekend's competition, including Michigan, Illinois St., and Eastern Michigan, will push Irish runners to their limits. 
"This is the time in the sea­son that the ladies should really start improving," said coach Joe Piane, who was recognized last weHk as Men's Coach of the Meet, directing both the men and womHn to confHrence titles. 
The Irish will look for a strong performance onee again from freshman sprinter Erica Peterson, who last week sHt conference records in the 200 and 400 meter dashes in addi­tion to winning the 55-metHr hurdles. She was also a mem­ber of the rHcord setting 4x440 mlay team. 
Other key runners for thH Irish will be Sarah Hiley and Becky Alfieri in the mile and Stefanie Jensen and Eva Flood in the 3000 meters. 



I:?ULH: With every DOMINO'S PIZZA ordered, receive a NOTRE DAME r:~C::T. A new r:~c::T will be issued daily starting Feb. 5 thru Feb. 24, 1993. Once you have collected ALL 2() r:~(;T'· you are 
eligible to register in the drawing for the TIJIV T() LM Wf?""· Bring your 2() r:~C::T' Into one of the DOMINO'S PIZZA locations listed below and register for the drawing. Registration entries must be received by midnight March 1, 1993. The winning entry will be drawn at random on March 2, 1993. You must be 18 years or older to enter. Winner need not be present. No purdlase necessary. The TIJIV T() LM V~f34.S must be taken by May 31, 1993. 
Employees of Domino's Pizza, and employees of Affiliated Contest Sponsors and their family members are not eligible. ' 
Valid at participating slores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tex where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Drivers carry leu than $20.00. 

II. 
Drivers are not for late deliveries. No cash value. 

Irish Baske-tball 

TRED 


GAME INFO . 
THE GAME: Notre Dame (8-10) versus Duke(lS-3, through Tues­day). 
TIPOFF: 1 p.m. EST. 
TV and RADIO: NBC Sports will broadcast the game nationally. The Notre Dame _Basketball Radio Network, coordinated by Host Communications {Jack Lorri, Jack Nolan} will broadcast the game to a regional radio audience. 
TICKETS: The Joyce ACC (11,418} is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP, USA Today/CNN: unranked. Duke: AP: 5th, USA Today/CNN: 6th. 
THE SERIES: Duke leads the series 14-2 and has won the last six meetings. The last Irish win came in the 1986-87 season, 70­
66. Both Notre Dame victories were at the JACC. 
THE LAST TIME: Duke romped Notre Dame 100-71 at Cameron Indoor Stadium. The Blue Devils were led by Christian Laettner's 29 points and six rebounds. LaPhonso Ellis and Daimon Sweet paced the Irish with 18. 
FYI: The is the second of three consecutive weekends the Irish will be on network television. ABC televised last Sunday's UCLA game to a regional audience. Next Saturday's contest against Kentucky will also be nationally televised by NBC. 
Notre Dame has an overall record of 21-47 against Atlantic Coast Conference opponents, but are 11"10 versus ACC foes at the JACC. 
STAFF 
Production: 
Jeanne Blasi 
Design: 
Mike Scrudato Jen Marten Rolando de Aguiar 
A Supplement to The Observer 
Making Things Happen 
Ryan Hoover is running the show for the Irish 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
It all happened sooner than he 
expected. 
Irish guard Ryan Hoover knew he 
would be called on to contribute heavily 
in this, his freshman year, but he didn't 
know just how much. 
Coach John MacLeod told Hoover while 
he was recruiting him that he would 
probably get about 15 to 20 minutes a 
game, but the role Hoover has played so 
far this season has gone far beyond that. 
Hoover has been the primary starter at 
the point guard spot for Notre Dame, and 
is the second-leading scorer for the Irish, 
averaging just under 10 points per game. 
"I wasn't really surprised that I was 
contributing a lot, but now as one of the 
key players, starting at point guard, it 
was kind of a pleasant surprise," says 
the freshman. 
But the point guard must be a leader 
as well as a playmaker on the court, and 
that aspect of the game posed some 
problems for Hoover at first. 
"I'm starting to get more comfortable, 
and the guys are starting to accept me a 
little better now," says Hoover. "The 
point guard has to have a lot of 
leadership, and sometimes it's hard for a 
junior or senior to take directions from a 
freshman. At first they were kind of 
hesitant about it, like 'what's he trying to 
tell us to do,' but now they're trying to 
acoopt me more." 
MacLeod is understanding of the 
potential leadership problems and says, 
"It's tough for a freshman (to be a 
leader), but not impossible." 
As for Hoover specifically, his coach 
said, "He's not a vocal leader, but he's a 
competitor." 
Hoover also had to get used to the 
players. "It's hard to give orders to guys I 
wasn't really comfortable with," he 
admits, "but now it's getting better." 
But leadership wasn't the only 
adjustment he has to make coming from 
high school to Division I basketball. 
Offensively, he feels comfortable, but the 
biggest difference Hoover feels is on the . defensive end of the court. 
"In high school I really didn't have to 
play that tough of defense," he says, 
"and now the other team is finding the 
defensive weak spot, and they go at it, and that's hurt us a couple times because I've gotten crossed up. That's what I need to work on-defense. Just holding the other point guard so they can't run their offense." 



That's going to be a major job for Hoover this weekend facing the Duke Blue Devils. 
"Hurley's probably the best point guard in college," Hoover believes. "In my view, he is the best, and he's going to be a real challenge for me." 
All in all though, MacLeod says, ''I'm very pleased [with him]. He's going through a normal transition; it's a major change from high school to Division I." 
Basketball hasn't been Hoover's only athletic love, however. Growing up in Roscoe, Ill., he lived on a golf course and developed a love for the game as a way to relax. 
He also showcased his talents on the baseball diamond and the football field. He was selected all-conference and all­area in football his junior year and was elected captain of the team going into his senior season. But he had to make a tough decision about his football future. 
"I told the coach I couldn't play because of the risk of injury and losing my scholarship. He was understanding. It was tough to give up because I had six or seven friends that I played with. My best friend was the quarterback and I was the receiver." 
Hoover was also a solid baseball player. A centerfielder, he was a two­time all-conference selection, and is considering walking on for the Irish, but the difficulties of playing two sports will probably keep him from doing so. 
"I'm still thinking about playing baseball, but it's real tough to play two sports in college, especially baseball and basketball, because they overlap. I've always loved baseball; I've played baseball my entire life. It's going to be tough to give that up." 
But basketball was always the first priority for Hoover. His father was a high school coach for 30 years. 
"I was always at practice with him. He never really forced me to do it, but I like basketball. Ever since I was little I can remember what a basketball was. I was always at his practices, dribbling a ball or shooting." 
His dad retired from coaching before Ryan entered high school, "to enjoy my high school years," says the point guard. But having an ex-coach for a dad helped with the college recruiting scene. 
"He really helped out a lot. When he talked to the coaches, he knew what to talk about," Hoover stated. 
It came down to Illinois and Notre Dame for ~Hoover, and he eventually chose the lrish, mostly for the chance to play right away. 
An added benefit has been the chance to play for MacLeod. 
"He's a real positive guy," Hoover says of his coach. "He's an intense competitor, but he doesn't make you feel like crap if you mess up. He doesn't dwell on it to make you lose your confidence, but he picks your confidence level up. That's a good quality for a coach to have." 
Hoover isn't exactly sure what he plans to study -he's leaning towards the business school -but as far as basket­ball goes, he's looking forward to the rest of the season, and the chance to play in the post-season. 
"We want to play in the NCAA's, but to do that, we're going to have to beat some top-notch teams. 
"But the NIT is a real possibility. That would be a goal for us, to finish over .500. Last year's team finished .500, and they got in the NIT and ended up making the finals." 
A measure of how far Hoover has come in the last year comes when he is asked about his favorite players. 
"When I was in high school, I looked up to Damon Bailey," says Hoover, "and then 'this year, I played against him. It's kind of weird, because you look up to somebody like that, and then you're playing him." 
Dick Vitale called Hoover a "Diaper Dandy" in the game against UCLA. With continued improvement and a few seasons of experience under his belt, that role may be reversed. He has the chance to become the type of player other high school kids will look up to. 


page 2 Notre Dame vs Duke Friday, February 5, 1993 
People talking about Jon Ross for the right reasons 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
What is it like to be instantly recognized by 
everyone on campus, but not have anyone really 
know what your name is? 
What is it like to be mentioned in more Bookstore 
Basketball team names than Jordan, Bird and 
Johnson? 
What is it like to be stigmatized by your last name? 
What IS it like to be Jon Ross? 
"The thing that attracts the attention the most is that we are twins. Twins just attract attention. Being on a varsity sport attracts attention," said Jon Ross. "Students just have fun with it like at Keenan Revue and all. I can laugh at it too." 
But, Jon is happy that the boos and the negative comments are turning into the more encouraging "Ross brother, Ross brother" cheer. 
"It's just a matter of me getting more time on the floor and showing people what I can do. I'm going to make mistakes, but I'm going to work my butt off. It's good to hear the chant," added the Wabash, Ind. native. 
The 6'9" center spent his first two years in blue and gold in a backup role with the exception of ten starts in his freshmen season when LaPhonso Ellis became ineligible. In those years, Jon struggled on offense averaging 2.0 ppg and 3.6 ppg in the respec­tive seasons. 
The 1992-93 season has seen Jon mature in a more regular job and improve his numbers. Currently, his points per game average is up to 6.1 and his rebounds per game average at 3.8 is an improvement from his previous average of two re­bounds. 

"It's a great benefit to be on the floor because the previous two years there were not as many opportunities to play. You get in in spurts and it's hard to get into the flow of the game. Now, I can Th Ob /J k p
• , . , e server a e e1ers 
re~ax a btt and get a better feel for what s gomg on, Jon Ross turned in some strong performances recently. satd Jon. 
He prides himself on being a team player, a title
MacLeod is pleased with the way Jon has progressed. 

which requires a focus on screens, rebounds and"Jon has worked hard and has gained a lot of assists. Setting picks to get other people open isconfidence," the Irish coach said. "His shots are 
something Jon does well and taking the open shot isstarting to fall and he's taking the ball to the hoop." 
something he is ready to do, but nonetheless he is still 
Coach MacLeod turning Irish players, fans around 

By MIKE SCRUDATO with is a group of youngsters work hard, get better and see 
Sports Editor with a lot of character," he the team come together," said. "That makes coaching a MacLeod stated. lot easier." He feels the key factor in the 
The last time Duke visited the Though MacLeod talks of the team's ability to improve is its Joyce ACC was on February 2, players' characters, it is hard practice habits. 1991. to ignore what happened last "It's very rewarding to see 
Humors about Digger Phelps' season. players improve and continue eminent departure were al­The team's seniors had en­to work hard," MacLeod com­ready floating around campus, tered Notre Dame as one of the mented. "That's what marks and the Irish fans greeted the most-highly touted classes ever. our team. Everyone wants to Blue Devils with chants of, "We In three seasons under Phelps, win and do well. want Coach K." LaPhonso Ellis, Elmer Bennett, 
The chances of hearing that Daimon Sweet and Keith Tower "We've had a lot of great tomorrow are about the same never lived up to those workouts here," MacLeod ex­as hearing, "We want Digger expectations. plained. "In the pros it's diffi­back." After struggling early, the cult to have long workouts be­
In just a season and a half, seniors blossomed in cause you have so many Irish coach John MacLeod has MacLeod's system, and all four games. But, young players need turned around the Notre Dame are now playing professionally. them to develop." basketball program's reputa­tion. The Irish have gone from This season MacLeod's team MacLeod has not only struck underachievers to overachiev­has played better than most a chord with his players, but ers. expected and provided a num­with fans as well. The student 
It is easy to credit MacLeod ber of pleasant surprises. And interest has increased dramati­with the transformation, but again they have made strides cally since MacLeod has taken the second-year coach feels his as the season has progressed. over. players should be praised. 
"One thing we are blessed "I enjoy watching youngsters "He's really personable and approachable. During his (post­game) radio show, he likes to talk to the students," Grace ju­nior Sean O'Reilly said. 
This relationship with the students is best exemplified by the scene which ensued after last season's upset of second­ranked UCLA. After the final horn, the students mobbed the floor and carried MacLeod around the court. 
Despite some recent set­backs, MacLeod and the Irish have remained optimistic be­cause with hard work anything is possible. 
Even another victory ride. 


working on consistently putting the ball in the hands of 
the open player. 
Being the big man in the middle has given Jon the 

confidence and the opportunity to shoot more, but it 
has also gotten him into consistent foul trouble. 
"They bother me," said Jon of the fouls. "I don't want 

to be in foul trouble. It's good because most are 
aggressive fouls. But it is something I need to work on." 
Most referees seem to key in on the guy in the middle especially if he is bigger than anyone else. In games against the shorter teams like St. Bonaventure on last Tuesday night, Jon is the tallest guy out there. 
"When you are the big guy and bigger than everyone else, it's easier to see what's going on. They (the refs) watchdog the big guys inside in a game like this (St. Bonaventure)." 
If Jon should get a little too deep in foul trouble, the Irish have an almost carbon copy replacement in his brother Joe. The brothers are competing for the same position this year and which Ross starts is depends on how the teams match up. 
Joe will get the starting nod if the opposing player in the middle is bigger while Jon takes the quicker players. In the last seven games, Jon has enjoyed a hot hand notching eight points and four rebounds a game including a career-high 21 points against Butler. 
Having a brother on the team is not something that Jon is always conscious of. "When we are practicing, he's just another guy on the team," said Jon. "Before games and working out by ourselves, the brother aspect comes in." 
Identical twins might be a novelty for Notre Dame basketball, but for Jon it can get annoying. 
"It's something I've lived with my whole life. I'm not an individual. Whatever one does and the other does is smacked together. It gets frustrating," commented Jon. 
It is equally frustrating for the coaches, players and fans who can't tell Jon and Joe apart. Jon claims that his coach still cannot tell them apart and the fans just call him Ross or Ross Brother. In the Notre Dame media guide he lists his nickname as simply "Twin." 
This season, Jon Ross is using his improved play on the court to make himself stand out of the crowd and turn the criticism into cheers. 











By MARK SACKS 
Duke Chronicle 
Mike Krzyzewski remembers first seeing Grant Hill's genius in his sophomore year at South Lakes High in Reston, Va. 
"I've always loved Grant," Krzyzewski said. "I believed in Grant before Grant believed in Grant. I saw him play as a sophomore and there was never any doubt in my mind that he would be a great player. The game came easy to him." 
While the game came easy, the confidence did not. But in his junior season the confidence-like national stardom-may finally be here. 
The process began as a freshman with Hill's play in the Final Four and continued into the summer during the tryouts for the Pan Am Games basket­ball team. 
"I did real well in the trials," he said. "Going in I didn't think I could make the team, but I went in with the attitude that I could be a defensive stopper." 
DUKE STARTERS 
Notre Dame vs Duke page 3 
Irish will need a lot of luck 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Big versus small, fast versus slow, great versus mediocre. 
Mike Krzyzewski's Duke Blue Devils, the two-time defending NCAA champions, versus John MacLeod's Notre Dame Fighting Irish, who lost to St. Bonaventure Tuesday night. 
Duke's starting lineup reads like a list of All-American can­didates. Indeed, it is a list of All­American candidates. 
The road may not be so tough for the Irish on Saturday, as Duke has lost a game each of the last three weekends. Of course, trends fade quickly. 
Duke starts probable All­American Bobby Hurley at point guard. Hurley, a senior, earned MVP honors at last year's NCAA tournament, and has been his usual quiet, productive self this season. The yin to Grant Hill's yang, Hurley is a small, unassuming player who rarely makes the highlight film. 
Then again, the most popular highlight of this college basket­ball season came when Hurley was leveled by a pick against Georgia Tech. 
Of course, Hill usually quali­fies for the Play of the Day be­cause of his own talent. Few will ever forget his ferocious slam during the 1991 NCAA fi­nal, the game which finally brought Duke out of UNLV's shadow. 
Along with Anfernee Hard­away, Jamal Mashburn, Calbert Cheaney and Chris Webber, Hill, as well as Hurley, has been singled out as possible Player of the Year candidates. The Irish 
Hill was a defensive stopper, but it was his role as an offensive starter that landed him on the team and increased his self-confidence. 
The growth process continued last summer-no trips to the beach for Hill-as he joined a Developmental Team of college players who traveled to San Diego to practice with the U.S. Olympic Team. 
"The one thing it gave me is confidence," he said. "When you play well against the best, why can't you play well against the Atlantic Coast Conference. The ACC is a tough conference, but it doesn't compare to the Dream Team." 
If Hill can add assertiveness to his already-imposing physical skills, the package may be too much for other teams to handle. Tops on the resume of the gifted junior is versatility. 
"Last year we didn't need (my outside shot)," Hill said. "It wasn't my speciality so I just worked on the things I could do. I've worked on it each year and this year you'll see me taking more outside shots." 
The main area in which Hill looks to improve is in leadership. 

"What Coach K means by asserting myself includes off the floor-being a leader," said Hill. "I'm a veteran and I need to be more vocal and bring a lot of stuff to the table that Brian (Davis) brought as far as hustle and hard work and leadership." 
"If anybody is going to assume Laettner's role its Grant," Krzyzewski said. "He's the guy who has the freedom to do anything." 
That freedom is confidence and that confidence is all that has been missing for Hill. He's got it now-and his opponents better be wary. 
"More of the attention will be on me," Hill said. "I look forward to the challenge of being looked at more. People will want to stop me more than last year, but it's something I'll have to deal with." 
Krzyzewski says, "If you have skills that you're ready to use, don't stand in line, come to the head of the line." 
Grant Hill should reach the head this year. Here's hoping the rest of the line can keep up. 
have already faced Webber and Cheaney, with mixed results. After holding Webber to seven first-half points, the Irish had trouble containing the Michigan sophomore phenom in the sec­ond half, as he exploded for 15 second-half points, leading the Wolverines to the win. Cheaney, meanwhile, scored a modest 19. 
But will the Irish be able to contain Hill and Hurley as they have contained other oppo­nents' superstars? The point guard will be Ryan Hoover's responsibility, and indeed one of the most intriguing matchups of the game is this: which ballhandler has darker circles under his eyes? In his biggest test of the season, Hoover was productive against Michigan's ultra-talented backcourt, leading the Irish with 23 points. 
Meanwhile, Irish defensive specialist Billy Taylor will have the enormous responsibility of stopping Hill before he can get too close to the hole. Taylor, whose defensive play outshines his infrequent offensive efforts, is the only Notre Dame player quick and aggressive enough to contain Hill. 
Thomas Hill, however, pre­sents another problem for MacLeod's team. An underrated player on the talent-rich Blue Devils, Hill is a contributor whenever the Irish take on Duke. 
Last season, his 14 points were second to Christian Laet­tner's 29 as Duke hammered the Irish, 100-71. The last time Duke visited the Joyce ACC, in 1991, Hill scored 18, right be­hind Laettner's 20. 
If Taylor indeed picks up 
Grant Hill on defense, then the Irish are left with a dilemma-who will try to stop Thomas Hill? Carl Cozen and Malik Russell may not have the foot speed to keep up with the elusive guard, while no one else in the lineup seems to have the size (Hill is 6-5, 200 pounds) to get in his way. 
Cherokee Parks and Antonio Lang play up front for the Blue Devils. Parks, a first-team high school All-American, will not emerge from Laettner's shadow until he himself hits a game­winning shot in the NCAA tournament. But the sophomore has been solid in the middle for the Blue Devils this season. 
The versatile Lang, a 6-8, 205-pound forward, will also give the Irish trouble, with his respectable combination of range and quickness. Lang also has the ability to make explo­sive bursts toward the basket when the Hills are elsewhere. 
Duke's lineup remains virtu­ally unchanged since last year. The only departure from the defending national champi­onship team was Laettner, who is now making a name for him­self around the NBA. 
Grant Hill has stepped up as the .next Blue Devil superstar, while Hurley continues his progress as a point guard. Thomas Hill, Lang and Chero­kee Parks complement this dy­namic duo perfectly. Even re­serve guard Marty Clark has budded as a player. 
For Notre Dame to down Duke Saturday, the Irish will need a spectacular defensive effort as well as the luck of the Irish. 
,_:, 
-

BOBBY HURLEY THOMAS HILL CHEROKEE PARKS ANTONIO LANG 
The forward broke into the 
The All-American point The shooting guard is Duke's The sophomore from starting lineup in the second guard from Jersey City, N.J. is co-captain and one of the top Huntington Beach, Calif. has half of last season. He scored a the Duke co-captain. He has a defensive players in the country. inherited the center spot from career-high f6 points against
"' 17-1 record in NCAA Tornament He was Duke's second-leading All-American Christian Seton Hall in the NCAA play and was a member of the scorer in the NCAA Tournament Laettner. He is the only new Tournament. Olympic Development Team. last season. starter on this year's Blue Devil 
team. 

page 4 Notre Dame vs Duke 
Friday, February 5, 1993 

Notre Dame looking to slay another giant 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Unlikely? Yes. 
Impossible? No. 
Notre Dame's chances of upsetting sixth-ranked Duke this Saturday are about as slim as a baseball expansion team winning the World Series this fall. But as history proves, you can't count out "the luck of the Irish." 
Notre Dame has a history of dramatic upsets on the hardwood, including a remarkable six victories against top­ranked teams in the past 15 years. 
This season, Notre Dame under­manned, inexperienced squad played tough against Indiana {ranked fifth at the time) and UCLA, only to come up short in the linal seconds. Though the Irish are inconsistent, signs of hope do exist. 
John MaeLeod followed in the tradition of Digger Phelps in preparing the Irish for matehups against ranked opponents. Despite a hum-drum 18-15 record, the squad became known as "Giant Killers," as they knocked off ranked opponents: USC {25th), North Carolina (eighth), Syracuse {tenth), UCI.A {second) and St. Johns {20th). 
Here is a record of memorable basketball upsets in Notre Dame basketball history: 
Feb. 22, 1992: Irish 84, UCI.A 71. Irish fans had developed faith in the old saying "anything can happen." 
That day, Daimon Sweet made things happen, scoring a team-high 25 points against All-American Tracy Murray. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 40-33 halftime lead. UCLA quickly tied the score at 46 with 14:53 to play, but the Irish out-scored the Bruins 20-4 for the remainder of the game for the win. 
For vintage Irish fans, the upset revived the spirits of perhaps Notre 


PhoiO courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Dwight Clay (far left) sinks the game-winner in the 1974 UCLA upset. Notre Dame's 71-70 win ended the Bruins' 88-game winning streak. 
Dame's most memorable game ever. 
Jan. 19, 1974: Irish 71, UCLA 70. 
Dwight Clay capped a miraculous Irish comeback by sinking a fall-away jumper with :29 to go, as the second-ranked Irish toppled top-ranked UCLA and snapped college basketball's record winning streak. 
Clay, blanketed by UCLA's Tommy Curtis, threw up a bullseye 12-footer from the right baseline that 
consummated a run of 12­unanswered points by Notre Dame. 
The Bruins, who built up a 17­point lead in the first 14 minutes of the game with a phenomenal 19-of-27 shooting, shot five more times. But none of John Wooden's sharp-shooters could put it in to keep their 88-game winning streak alive. 
Bill Walton, the 6'11" red­beaded All-American center who led his team with 24 points, missed only two shots all day. But his second misfire, a frantic put-back with :06 to go, brought hoards of fans onto the Athletic and Convocation Center floor in a hysterical celebration. 
"The only thing I know," senior John Shumate explained, "is that I got crowded, bombarded. I could hardly breathe down there." 
"It's special for college bas­ketball. It's special for every­one," announced a drained 
. Digger Phelps. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information . fi . . Irish players and fans celebrate the 1978 Marquette Durmg the mal tim~out, Ins~

-upset students celebrated thmr schools · claim to athletic superiority, 
Duke has dominated Irish Notre Dame has not won since 1987 

hoisting a banner that said, "Dear John Wooden, God DID make Notre Dame No. 1 Sincerely, Paul {Bear) Bryant." 
The monumental victory came in the wake of the football team's dramatic 24­23 win over top-ranked, undefeated Alabama in the Orange Bowl. Ara Parseghian led his team to a perfect 12­0 record and the 16th National Championship in Irish history. 
Jan. 25, 1975: Irish 84, UCLA 78. 
In his last year of collegiate coaching, the legendary Wooden captured one linal National Championship. But along the way, Digger Phelps masterminded another upset at the ACC with help from Adrian Dantley, who scored 32 points for the Irish. 
In the following two seasons of this historic rivalry, Phelps masterminded two more upsets. 
Feb. 16, 1990: Irish 66, Syracuse 65. In the game of basketball, one second can mean a lifetime. 
The replay of Elmer Bennett's 20­footer will remain in the Notre Dame recruiting videos for a lifetime, and will haunt Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim endlessly. 
With :03 remaining, Keith Robinson hurled an inbound pass to LaPhonso Ellis at half-court; Ellis' relay hit Bennett at the top of the key; and Bennett, catching and firing in one motion, hit nothing but net to boost the Irish over fourth-ranked Syracuse in the frenzied Carrier Dome. 
"We've diagrammed that thing and worked on that thing for four years," Phelps said. "The last time we practiced it was over the holidays." 
Immediately after Billy Owens' shot went through the net with three seconds showing on the clock, Phelps called time-out. The clock showed :02. Phelps lobbying produced one additional second, which made all the difference. 
The win broke Syracuse's four-year home winning streak and gave the Irish seniors their first road win against a ranked opponent. 
Feb. 26, 1978: Irish 65, Marquette 59. 
"We've had some great comeback victories, but this has to rank as one of our best," proclaimed Digger Phelps, who compared it to the monumental UCLA game in 197 4. 
The Irish recovered from a 14-point halftime deficit to down the number-one ranked Warriors. Kelly Tripucka led the squad with 15, while Bill Hanzlik's defensive pressure shut down Marquette's Butch Lee on 6-of-19 shooting. 
Feb. 27, 1980: Irish 76, DePaul 74 (2 
OT). 
Orlando Woolridge's two clutch free throws with 19 seconds left in the second overtime clinched the victory for Notre Dame over the top-ranked Blue Demons. 
Hanzlik grabbed the rebound of Terry Cummings' miss with 1:55 to go. Then Phelps, employed the infamous pre-shot clock strategy-the four-corner stall. 
When Marquette got the ball back, they could manage only an 18-foot attempt by Jim Mitchem, their center playing with two broken lingers in his left hand. Clyde Bradshaw's desperate put-back attempt of the long rebound caromed off as the buzzer sounded. 
In order to beat Duke tomorrow, the Irish will need to wake up the echoes of these and other historic upsets. 
SEASON RESULT 
1964-65 Duke 1 01, Notre Dame 88 1965-66 Duke 95, Notre Dame73 1966-67 Duke 77, Notre Dame 65 1967-68 Duke 73, Notre Dame 67 1972-73 Duke 86, Notre Dame 7 4 1973-74 Notre Dame 87, Duke 68 1977-78 Duke 90, Notre Dame 86 1984-85 Duke 81 , Notre Dame 69 1985-86 Duke 75, Notre Dame 7 4 1986-87 Notre Dame 70, Duke 66 1987-88 Duke 70, Notre Dame 61 1988-89 Duke 1 02, Notre Dame 80 1989-90 Duke 88, Notre Dame 76 1990-91 Duke 85, Notre Dame 77 1990-91 Duke 90, Notre Dame 77 1991-92 Duke 100, Notre Dame71 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
The Duke series has not been kind to Notre Dame. 
The Blue Devils have dominated the Irish, the way Irish have dominated Valparaiso. 
In 16 meetings, Notre Dame has come away with only two victories, the last of which came in the Reagan administration. In February, 1987, the Irish topped the Blue Devils 70-66 in overtime. 
The only other Irish win was a 87-68 decision during the 1973-7 4 campaign. 
The most significant game in the history of this series occurred at the 1978 Final Four. 
This•game featured future NBA players like Kelly Tripucka and Bill Laimbeer for the Irish and Jim Spanarkel and Mike Gminski for the Devils. 
Notre Dame almost turned in one of the greatest comebacks in NCAA history, as they made a frantic second-half run without the advantage of the three-point shot and 45-second clock. 
Trailing by 14 with 3:55 left, the Irish put together a 20-8 run to pull within two. But the comeback came up short as Duck Williams missed a 22-footer with 18 seconds left. 
Duke's John Harrell then sunk two free throws to ice the 90-86 Duke win. 
The two teams began to meet annually in the 1984-85 season, and since then the Blue Devils have won eight of nine contests including last year's 100-71 
demolition of the Irish. 

Today ­
Friday, February 5, 1993 page 23 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
ONE FINf\t. CAfVlPAI~N PROMISE . 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

• 
W\.\i, Tl-\1':> SO\l\D \S~T IV\'{ MoM MI-\.DE ! l'M ~0\ 
LOOK A.T THIS SA~DWICI-\ 
t.VEN rRES\-1! S\1\E\.l.. \\.' HTINS nil'S WRDC.HED 
LOOK \-\OW R.\.\813\::R'{ II \'5! 1\~\) n-11:. 11'11<.'1 13R\NE 1-\1-\."S SOI-\.\ZED \HE BREAD! ll-\E PICKLE'S ARE 1'\.lll'.' GRo<;)! 
I 
~~L 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 "The Twelve 64 Detect sound -,"Yuletide 
65 StadiumGwenn's song sections

Kringle in a 1947 film 66 Hodgepodge
41 Mindanao native

Barton or Bow 42 UnfurnishedCauserie 
DOWN
43 Ennead

Dry as dust 44 Not so raw 1 Contest at 
Recluse 46 Altar boys' Daytona Beach 
Plexus vestments 2 Nuncupative Yuletide song 
48"-kleine 3Coins in

Indium and Nachtmusik" Calabriaosmium 49 Fatima's 4 King Hadad's Highest points landhusbandFrench 5 Reproduces 50 Tables in casasmarshal: plants by 1804-15 53 Burns with asexual grafting Cut smoke and no 6 Towering flameIs worthy of 7 Numbat's 58 Yuletide song Wavering tidbits Bitter herb 61 Yield 
8 A deer in 14 Surteit 62 Nozzle Dortmund 15Game cube 63 Sicilian menace 9 "We Three King~ of Orient 
~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 A Yuletide display 11 Ship's wheel 12 Tamarisk 
29 Last word of a 47 Medium for 54 Consider 
13 Polanski film Poe title Monet 55 Major ending 
18 Fasting period 30 Acknowledge 49 Chanson subject 56 Cey and Darling 
19 Moistens meat 31 Rigg or Ross 50 Great amount 
57 Evian and 
during cooking 
32 Affirmative 51 Blunted sword Menton 
votes 52 O'Hara's 59 President from 24 Italian wine 37 Leon "Sermons and Mo.
center Goossens, e.g. 
---Water" 
60A Vanuatu
25 "Call Me-," 3&Toady 53 Part of a brake island
Merman film 39 Ontario Indian 26 Elevate one's 40Amatol 
spirit ingredient Get answers to any three clues 
27 Princely 45 Hobber, in 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·
28 Ending for pant horseshoes 
5656 (75¢ each minute) No. 1225
or scant 46 Ruth ian hits 
Frlday, feb 5 


l
Saturday, Feb 6 

l 1 
SINGLE WHITE 
~ 
Cushing Aud. 8 & 10: 30pn 

]
adnission $2

STUDENT UNION BOARD 




-Sports 
page 24 Friday, February 5, 1993 
.. 
·­
..., 
RICH KURZ 
Happy Happy, Joy Joy 
Fencing meet showcases most talented Irish team 
What, you might ask, is the winningest 
sports program in Notre Dame history? 
The obvious first guess is football. It's 
also wrong. After that the list of 
possibilities is wide open, but the right 
answer is the fencing team. Including 
this season, the Irish men's all-time 
record stands at S45 wins, 95 losses 
and two ties. for a .897 winning 
percentage. The women's team, in 
existence since women were first 
admitted to the University in 1972, has 
an all-time mark of 287-63. 
The fencing program may just be the 
secret of the athletic department. Since 
1982, the men haven't finished lower 
than fourth place in the NCAA 
Championships, winning the national 
championship in 1986 and finishing 
second three times, most recently in 
19SS. . 
Notre Dame's women's team has won 
the national championship twice, 
repeating in 1987 and '88. Three of the 
last seven individual champions have 
fenced for the Irish, including Molly 
Sullivan, who won it twice and went on 
to the U.S. Olympic Team. 
So far this season, the men are off to 
a 14-1 start. They defeated defending 
national champion Columbia before 
falling to Princeton last Sunday. The 
women are 9-2. 
This weekend the Irish are at the 
Joyce ACC, in the fieldhouse section 
next to the hockey rink, for their only 
home meet of the season. The women 
will fence five teams, the men four. 
In the first round of the day, Notre 
Dame will fence Cleveland State at 9:00 
a.m., before taking on Case Western at 
10:30. The most important meet of the day for the Irish is scheduled to begin at noon. with the Irish facing the Ohio State Buckeyes. a traditionally tough team. As one of the stronger teams in the Midwest, a victory over the Buckeyes is important to the Irish ehances for an NCAA bid. 
Notre Dame's men's team ends the day fencing Northwestern at 1:30, but the women have another match after the Wildeats, taking on Lawrence 
Univt~rsity. 
This season started ofT as something 
for a question mark for the Irish. The 
foil squad. captained by senior Jeff 
Piper, lost two starters from last year's 
team and starts Stan Brunner. in his 
first year of eompeting for Notre Dame 
and a former epeeist, Hian Girard, who 
switched hack to foil to give the squad 
depth. 
The epee team lost two-time All­
American David Calderhead, but 
returns solid support in Gzegorz 
Wozniak. a potential All-American, 
plus Per Johnsson and Geoff Pechinsky. 
The sabre team lost all three starters 
from last season, including All­
American .lames Taliaferro. and starts 
see HAPPY/page 21 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Forsyth 
drops opponent see page 21 

•Meyo 
lnvhatlonaJ preview see page 22 

•Men's 
swimming closes season see page 19 



Irish conquer Lady Explorers 
The Observer/John Bingham 
Senior guard Coquese Washington leaves defenders in her wake as she drives to the hoop. 
By KEVIN JANICKI Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams host their only home meet of the year this Saturday, as the Irish square off against Cleveland State, Case Western, Ohio State, and Northwestern. 
Ohio State will be a formidable opponent for both the men (14-1) and women (9-2). On the women's side, Ohio State and Notre Dame are bat­tling for the top spot in the Midwest as the season winds down. 
"Ohio State will be the toughest team we fence this weekend," said captain Kathleen Vogt. "I think we'II do very well if we fence the same way 
1. Miami (17-6-3) 15 2. Michigan (19-4-3) 15 3. Lake Superior (17-6-4) 14 4. Western Michigan (14-9-2) 11 5. Michigan State (15-1 0-1) 11 6. Ferris State ( 14-1 0-3) 9 
7. 
Bowling Green (13-17-0) 8 14 0 16 3-7-0 

8. 
Kent (9-14-3) 6 13 1 13 4-4-2 

9. 
UIC (7-15-2) 5 12 2 12 4-5-1 

1
0. Notre Dame (6-18-2) 4 16 2 10 3-6-1 

11. 
Ohio State (5-18-2) 3 15 2 8 1-8-1 


By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team played last night like it has all season: great at times and poor at others. 
Unlike past games this season. the great times last night occurred frequently enough to give the Irish a win. 61-58 over LaSalle at the Joyce Center. 
• see Commentary, page 20 
The good came first, in the form of junior forward Kristin Knapp, who scored Notre Dame's first three baskets . The bad followed quickly as LaSalle was able to victimize a stagnant Irish defense, keeping the game close, and eventually allowing the the Lady Explorers to take a a 31-24 lead, which was cut to 33-28 at the half. 
Notre Dame was able to minimize the effect of their defensive inadequacies in the first half by pounding the ball into Knapp and Letitia Bowen, who scored 22 of the Irish's points. Knapp netting a team-high 14. 
"We felt as though they couldn't contend with us on the blocks," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw,"and we were a little cold from the outside." 
The good reappeared to start the second when senior guard Coquese Washington and freshman Stacy Fields hounded La Salle for four quick 
see LASALLE!page 20 

Fencers continue preparation 
Season's only home meet this weekend 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Hockey plays two 
Team faces off with Spartans 

Kathleen Vogt 
we've been fencing." 
The men also face a challenge against the Buckeyes. 
"They are strong in sabre, which happens to be our weakest weapon," said men's coach Mike DeCicco, " but I like to think that our foil and epee are equally competitive with them." 
DeCicco said that an upset by the sabre team may be the only hope against the Buckeyes. But the sabre team already has one upset under their belts, with their victory over Columbia last weekend. The sabremen will rely on Bernie Baez, who has compiled a 33-11 record on the season. 
Northwestern could prove to be the class of the field, however. They are enjoying an out­standing season. According to DeCicco, the men have an extremely balanced attack from all three weapons, while the women are coming off of a competitive battle with defending women's national champion Penn State. 
"This is the most critical weekend of the season for us," said DeCicco. 
T A N 
D 
~ 
s 
T  PTS  LAST 10  
2  3  33 6-3-1  
4  2  32 8-1-1  
4  4  32 7-2-1  
6  2  24 5-4-1  

7 1 23 5-5-0 8 3 21 7-3-0 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
In an attempt to rebound from last weekend's collapse, the Notre Dame hockey team will shoot for success in games tonight and tomorrow night against Michigan State and Ferris State, respectively. 
The Irish will play first at Munn Arena in East Lansing, Mich. versus the Spartans before returning to the Joyce Fieldhouse on Saturday for a rematch with the Bulldogs. 
The Spartans, who hold a 15-10-1 overall record and a 11-7-1 league record, are ranked ninth in the nation and fifth in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. They have been able to rely on the outstanding play of center Bryan Smolinski, who leads the CCHA in both league scoring (17 goals-16 assists­33 points) and overall scoring (22-26-48). 

Michigan State defeated the Irish 8-4 at the JACC last November in the teams' only meeting. After a crushing 11-1 loss to the University of Michigan last Saturday, the Spartans will likely be thirsting for a big 
see HOCKEY/page 21 






