
Monday, October 4, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 26 TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Russians smash through siege of Parliament 

By BARRY RENFREW 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Thousands of anti-govern­ment protesters armed with rocks. clubs and macnhine guns smashed through the siege of parliament Sunday. and sent police fleeing in bat­tles across Moscow. It was the worst political violence in Moscow since the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution. 
I more on RUSSIA, page 7 
Authorities said at least 24 civilians and soldiers were re­ported killed. and as many 1 00 were injured. 
A column of 40 armored ve­hicles loyal to President Boris Yeltsin rolled into central Moscow early Monday. taking up positions outside the Kremlin and Defense Ministry. It was the army's first major show of force during the nearly 2-week-old crisis between the government and hard-line law­makers barricaded in par­liament. 
Yeltsin. rushing back to the Kremlin by helicopter from his country home. declared a state of emergency. giving police and troops wide power to crack down on unrest. 
Thousands of unarmed Yeltsin supporters took to the streets to support the presi­dent. who dissolved parliament Sept. 21 in an effort to end his long power struggles with the Soviet era parliament bent on hobbling his reforms. 
The protesters. an odd mix­ture of communists. fascists and extreme nationalists united by their opposition to Yeltsin. struck suddenly and fiercely on Sunday. beating young riot po­lice in vicious street fighting and seizing Moscow's City Hall. 
They attacked the country's main television complex with rocket-propelled grenades. Government paratroopers in armored personnel carriers sprayed them with machine­gun fire. Three TV channels went off the air and fighting raged into Monday morning. 
At least 20 civilians were killed and more than 100 were injured. excluding casualties from the broadcast station. said Igor Nadezhdin. an official with Moscow's main medical author­ity. In addition. fighting killed four soldiers and injured dozens. city officials said with­out elaboration. Exact figures were impossible to gather. 
The Interfax news agency reported eight people were killed in fighting at the TV com­plex. but there was no im­mediate confirmation. 
Hard-line lawmakers urged their triumphant followers to seize other installations and take control of the government. They chanted "Yankee Go Home" and called for Yeltsin's overthrow and the "liquida­tion" of his government. 
"We have to take the Kremlin." parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov told the parliament. referring to the government seat of power where Yeltsin was in his office. 
In addition to the armored vehicles that arrived early Monday. government forces were guarding the Kremlin. and pro-Yeltsin supporters erected barricades near the Kremlin and at City Hall. 
"The fate of Russia and the fate of our children is being decided today ... Yeltsin said in a statement distributed by the ITAR-Tass news agency. The agency itself was freed by a po­lice commando unit after it was seized by rebels who burst into its office with machine guns. 
In Washington. President Clinton said the United States must not waver in its support 
U.S. supports Yeltsin amid violence 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton said Sunday the United States must not wa­ver in its support for Russian President Boris Yeltsin as his battle against conservative forces erupted into violence on the streets of Moscow. 
"I still am convinced that the United States must support President Yeltsin and the pro­cess of bringing about free and fair elections," Clinton told re­porters on the White House lawn about two hours after Yeltsin declared a state of emergency in Moscow. 
Yeltsin informed the U.S. gov­ernment Sunday he would "do what is necessary" to end the rebel uprising in Moscow. Strobe Talbott. the president's chief adviser on Russia. told The Associated Press later. 
As elite troops moved on the capital. Yeltsin also notified 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering that "they are going to use as little force as possi­ble." Talbott said. 
White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said Clinton was kept abreast of develop­ments as he flew to Sacramento. Calif.. on Sunday afternoon and "is greatly for the restraint that (Yeltin) has shown so far." 
Talbott said the administra­tion supported Yeltsin from the beginning of his struggle with hardliners in parliament "because of what he stands for -democracy. reform and building a civil society." 

Committee on women's center holds open house 
Australians face government change 
ByJOHN RYAN Parliamentary system and the Until the 1960s the aborigines News Writer United States· Constitutional had been the victims of "some system," he said. pretty savage treatment," said 
Australians will soon have to Many Australians. however. Moses. But since then the confront issues that will possi­urge to sever the nation's ties Australians have come to bly change their form of gov­to England. he said. address the mistreatment of the ernment. and also help to ease "I believe that part of natives. and have made efforts relations with the native Australia's evolvement into a to come to terms with them. he aborigines. according to Father nation involves of the cutting of said. B i I l the umbilical cord to England," Aborigines represent two to Miscamble. 
said Father Miscamble. three percent of Australia's to­associate his­Australia has had close ties to tal population. said Miscamble. tory professor. England since its early years. Today. many aborigines live in and Dirk but "as it becomes more ethni­the outback. but many have Moses. history cally diverse. the ties to moved into the urban areas. he graduate stu-England are being loosened." said. dent. said Moses. "Those that live in urban ar­
Father Australia must decide what eas live on periphery and in Miscamble type of government it should poverty." said Father discussed the Bill Miscamble adopt. said Moses. Miscamble. 
situations at Ab-origines are currently hand for Australians. and what One possibility is a republic struggling to regain some of possible avenues of action the similar to that of Germany. with their property rites. and also to nation might take in his a president and a chancellor to overcome some residual Fireside Chat on Friday. handle the political leader and racism. he said. adding that it 
One of the main issues that figurehead roles. "It is neces­is a problem similar to that Australians face today is the sary to push ahead for a repub­which Native Americans faced. possibility of a change in their lic. but in a cautious manner." but not nearly as bad as the form of government. said said Father Miscamble. problems that exist in South Miscamble. Another issue that Africa. 
Currently the Australians uti­Australians are currently deal­As Australia faces these is­lize a parliamentary democ­ing with is that of a settlement sues. it will find a new identity. racy. which is somewhat of a with the native aborigines. said and also find new roles in the "hybrid of the British Moses. world. said Miscamble. 
By JULIE BARRETI 
Associate News Editor 
The Women's Resource Center committee is holding an open house for the new center today from 1 to 10 p.m. in the Notre Dame Student Government office on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune to an­swer questions about the cen­ter. its hours. purpose and goals. and to gather ideas for future programs and seminars. 
The committee has also sent in an application to be recog­nized as a student group after their proposal to become an of­ficial University organization was recently rejected by the of­fice of Student Affairs. accord­ing to junior Katie Glynn. a member of The Women's Resource Center committee. 
"All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. faculty and staff are invited to attend the open house and are asked to help out with the center in any way they can." said graduate student Patty O'Donnell. a member of the committee. "Even the local media has been invited to cover the opening of the center." 
A list of resources from the Notre Dame and South Bend communities and several pam­phlets regarding specific women's issues and concerns will be available during the open house. as well. 
"Information from NO Health and Counseling Services and the Drug and Alcohol Awareness Center will be avail­able. along with a list of some names and numbers of groups offering services to women in the South Bend area." O'Donnell added. 
"Eventually. [the Women's Resource committee) will be building up a library of re­sources dealing with women­related issues," said committee member Linda Chalk. "The Graduate Student Union (GSU) has given the center approxi­mately $500 that they made at 
see CENTER/ page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Full-tinte center for service needed 
In its small. cramped office on the second mez­zanine of Haggar College Center. the Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer (S.U.R.V.) Center sits. 
The usually quiet office. 

founded in the Fall of '91  
by  Sharon  Zint.  was  a  .:<t ~~t41  ~  
valiant student initiative  Jennifer Hab rych  
to provide a place where  S aint Mary's Editor  
students could find ways  
to serve in the communi­ 
ty. But now. two years  

later. it's time to move on to another phase-a full-time center that offers not only service opportunities. but educational and post-gradu­ate ones as well. 
There is a plan in the very tentative stages of development that would create the Christian Service Center. a replica of Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. The development of the center could not come soon enough or fast enough for the Saint Mary's. 
The plan is an initiative of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. They see the center as a way that they can remain a vital part of the College they founded 150 years ago. The College should see the center as a vital part of their mission as a Catholic institution. 
In the surrounding community. Saint Mary's is elusive. Many people know that the College exists. but their knowledge of Saint Mary's ends there. A center that provides a consistent and necessary community link would not only bene­fit the image of Saint Mary's. but it would impact the community and students in a posi­tive way as well. 
Support of the center should in no way belittle the efforts of students who have formed 
S.U.R.V. They have spent countless hours in the office working and rethinking ways to make the center every thing that a center for service should be. but S.U.R.V. will never be the esc. 
It lacks the full-time staff that would provide continuity and direction from year to year. It does not have the financial resources or influ­ence to provide career development opportuni­ties. It does not coordinate all service opportu­nities or clubs under one roof. It is time to move forward with the base provided by S.U.R.V. to form a center for students that truly fits their needs. 
The College is in a position now where oppor­tunities to serve are fragmented and uncoordi­nated throughout campus. A person who wants to learn about service opportunities can look to 
S.U.R.V.. Campus Ministry. the Justice Education program. Circle K. residence hall projects ... It is unclear for the Saint Mary's stu­dent just where to turn. 
Following the course of what students at Notre Dame did more than 10 years ago to patch together and coordinate their countless service activities. Saint Mary's should invest in the founding of their own version of the esc. 
Through the initiative of Notre Dame's Mary Meg McCarthy and other students. a well­planned and researched proposal landed on the desk of President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh and eventually was approved by the Board of Trustees to bring together what has evolved as the pinnacle of service opportunities and education at Notre Dame. 
It is well past time for Saint Mary's to follow suit. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Sarah Doran  Karhie Young  
Laura Ferguson  Whirney Sheers  
Sports  Accent  
Jonarhan Jensen  Marr Carbone  

Lab Tech Graphics David Hungeling Brendan Regan 
The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AH reproduction rights are reserved. 

Troops killed in Somalia 
NAIROBI. Kenya At least five Americans were killed Sunday during a U.N. military operation against Somali warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid. the Pentagon reported. Some U.S. troops were also wounded and two U.S. Army Black Hawk heli­copters were shot down during the operation. said a state­ment issued in Washington. Stockwell said the Humvee was about a quarter-mile from the Unit'ed Nations' port complex when the mine exploded.A Blackhawk helicopter was shot at when it arrived at the scene. but managed to land and rescue the survivors. Stockwell said. The Blackhawk and two other helicopters returned fire with machine guns and cannons. Stockwell said. He said there were "undoubtedly" casualties on the other side, but said he did not know how many. The Marines were hospitalized 
UH-60A Blackhawk profile 

U.S. Army jet helicopter transport designed to carry one squad of 11 airmobile troops Into battle. Two U. S. Army Blackhawk helicopters were shot down Sunday during a U. N. military operation. 
Built by  Sikorsky Aircraft div.  Length overall  64ft. 10 in.  
United Technologies  Main rotor span  53ft. Bin.  
First flew  Oct.1974  Height overall  16ft. 10 ln.  
In production  Oct.197B  Top speed  184 mph  
Crew  3  Weapons  varying configur­ 
Capacity  11 fully equipped  ations of mines,  
combat troops or  machine guns  
4 tons of cargo  and rockets  

in stable condition Sunday evening with shrapnel wounds LL_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.::.-=:_--::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::._-::__-=A_::_jP and burns.ln Washington. U.S. Defense Secretary Les Aspin rejected suggestions Sunday that the United States immediately withdraw from U.N. peacekeeping efforts in Somalia. saying such a move would lead to a return of famine in the African nation."We're all looking for a date cer­tain" to withdraw. Aspin said on CBS' "Face the Nation." "The trick is to withdraw ... in a way in which at least enough security remains behind so that the famine does not return. And that's what we're wrestling with."Sen. Bill 
Bradley. D-N.J.. said on the program that Congress may cut off money for the Somalia mission if the administration doesn't bring home its troops. There are 28.000 troops from 28 countries in Somalia. where the United Nations took over from the United States in May. The U.N. forces came to protect food shipments to starving Somalis. but have become increasingly bogged down in fighting Aidid's forces.Aidid. who says the U.N. troops have become an unwanted occupying force. has been blamed for masterminding attacks that have killed 56 peacekeepers since June. Stockwell said Sunday's attack on the Humvee was the fifth mine explosion aimed at U.S. forces. Four American soldiers were killed Aug. 8 when a mine explosion tore apart their Humvee. The Humvee attacked Sunday was carrying sandbags to protect against a mine attack. Stockwell said."We believe that helped preserve life today," he said. 
General plans children's camp 
ORLANDO 

Retired Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf said his memories of summer camp convinced him every child should have a chance to go to camp. even if seriously ill. Schwarzkopf announced Saturday he has joined Paul Newman in founding a 125-acre bivouac for boys and girls in Cassia. 'This is very special to me because it involves children." Schwarzkopf said. Modeled after the Hole in the Wall -~ Gang camp that Newman founded in Ashford. Conn .. the Lake County facility will be called the Boggy Creek Gang .It will be designed for seriously ill chil­dren whose medical needs usually force them to stay at home. Attendance will be free. Newman has pledged $1 million to the Boggy Creek Gang. The camp will cost $15 million and have 40 buildings. including 16 camper cab­ins. a theater. a farm. a nature center. a dining hall and recreational buildings. The land was donated by the Walt Disney Cancer Institute at Florida Hospital. Groundbreaking is set for February. and the first campers should arrive in 1995. 
Chicago teacher talks break off 

CHICAGO Talks broke up Sunday without a settlement between Chicago teachers and the school board. and a federal judge will decide whether classes continue past Monday for 411.000 students. The Board of Education asked U.S. District Judge Charles P. Kocoras to extend by 30 more days his order to keep schools open. even though the school budget isn't balanced as the law requires. Schools have been operating since mid-September under two suc­cessive restraining orders by Kocoras. the second of which runs through Monday. If he refuses the board's newest request. the schools would shut down Tuesday indefinitely. More talks between the two sides are sched­uled for Tuesday. said teachers union President Jacquelyn Vaughn. As talks broke up early Sunday. she said progress was "very small... Board President D. Sharon Grant said she was "very disappointed." 
New Yorker wins world title 
VACAVILLE. Calif. 

A Washington firefighter weighed in with a huge pumpkin that would make nearly 400 pies. but had his title as grower of the world's largest pumpkin squashed by a factory worker from New York.Donald Black took the title Saturday with an 884-pound pumpkin. the Great Pumpkin Commonwealth said. Black. who works at a slipper factory and grows pumpkins as a hobby. drove 22 hours from his home in Winthrop. N.Y.. to the contest in Windsor. Nova Scotia. with his monster pumpkin loaded in the back of his pickup truck. "It's just good seed. good luck." he said.Black pocketed $4,000, a free weekend in California and $1.250 for each weekend his pumpkin can be exhibited in California until Halloween. Joel Holland. 
44. of Puyallup. Wash.. set the previous record last year with a behemoth that weighed 827 pounds. The giant gourd he grew this year. 3 feet high and measuring 13 1/2 feet in circumference. tipped the scales at 792 pounds at one of six weigh -offs sponsored by the Great Pumpkin Commonwealth."It was a mean little pumpkin. right from the start. so I knew it had potential." Holland said. He estimated his entry. which at its peak gained a pound a day. would make almost 400 pumpkin pies. 
Three year old takes car for joyride 
LAND O'LAKES. Fla. 

"I go zoom!" was all a 3-year-old boy had to say after grabbing his parent's car keys and taking a wild joyride. Florida Highway Patrol troopers remain stumped as to how Mikey Sproul. who stands just 30 inches tall. was able to hit the gas pedal and maneuver at the same time. The toddler's steering was a bit suspect. He hit three cars in less than a half-mile during the ride Friday. But no one was hurt. including him."It never dawned on me he would drive a car," said Paula Sproul. his mother. "Not as a 3-year-old anyway."Mikey's trip started just after midnight when. as his parents slept. he climbed their 5­foot bedroom dresser and snatched the keys. Dressed in nothing but his underwear. he hopped into the 1979 Mercury and fired it up. While backing out the driveway and shifting into drive. he hit two cars at an auto repair shop next door. 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday, Oct. 4 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
ILL. 
• 



.............. ............. 
90s 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V18 Assoc~ated Pmss 

Cleveland 55 38 New York 57 49 Dallas 9t 61 Paris 59 48 
H L 
Athens 8t 64 

Indianapolis 60 32 Philadelphia 61 52
Atlanta 70 50 

Jerusalem 79 54 Reno 88 46
Bogota 68 41 London 59 48 Rome 77 6t
Boston 54 43 Los Angeles 90 69 Tokyo 82 70

Chicago 61 31 

Minneapolis 68 38 Washington. D.C. 69 59
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993 Accu·Wealher, Inc. 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 4. 
Monday, Octocber 4, 1993 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page3 
Fall Festival sign-ups held this week 
By JULIE BARRETT Associate News Editor 
In an effort to get Notre Dame students more involved in the South Bend community as well as help keep it beautiful. ND Student Government is spon­soring a one day service project in November called Fall Festival '93. 
Students will work together with members of the South Bend community to clean up the northeast neighborhood, according to Rich Toohey. a senior off -campus ND Student Government representative who is helping to organize the project. Volunteers will be in­volved in planting flowers and cleaning up the interiors and exteriors of local residences in the area. 
"As of recent years, the northeast neighborhood has declined with an increase in crime and a general rundown 
CLUB COLUMN 
October 4, 1993 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of Lafortune. 
l.IMPORTANT: The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents ofgraduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 
3. TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL OF NOTRE DAME 
meets every Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Rm. 222. All are wel­come. 
appearance." Toohey said. "[We are] hoping to reestablish the relationship between the Notre Dame and South Bend communities while helping to fix it up at the same time." 
Ten Student Government commissioners will be meeting with northeast neighborhood representatives to determine what needs to be done and which houses will be chosen for the project. 
The clean up is scheduled for Saturday, November 6 from 
8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Sign-ups will take place this Tuesday. Oct. 5, through Thursday. Oct. 7, in both dining halls during lunch and dinner. Off-campus students can sign up at the LaFortune information desk. 
"[ND Student Government] is looking for about 600 volun­teers, with 150 of them being neighborhood volunteers," Toohey added. 

The ObserverfTeck Teng 

Mod quad music 
The campus band Baby Fishmouth, comprised of Jim Rooney (lead), Joe Kozak (bass), Pat Cassidy (guitar), Andy Heil (guitar), and Pete O'Connor (drums), performed this weekend at Notre Dame. 
SMC multi-cultural week starts today 
i;;---;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:__ _;~-----.:..---_;~;;_;;~~~;.:~~~~;,;;.;;~ 

BOOK SIGNING 
OCTOBER 4, 1993 at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE On the campus ofthe University ofNotre Dame 
2:00 -3:30 p.m. 

bestselling author of 
EVERYTHING I NEED TO KNow I LEARNED IN KlNDERGATEN, IT wAs ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DoWN oN IT, UH-OH and MAYBE (MAYBE NoT) 
By NICOLE MCGRATH cussing different foreign study 
Saint Mary's News Editor programs, according to the Office of Multicultural affairs director. Maricela Ramirez. The first Saint Mary's 
Multicultural week begins "I expect greater participa­
today with a student panel dis-tion since the office has been 
here for five years,"said Ramirez. "I hope that the stu­dents will see this as an oppor­tunity to learn from each 
other." 
Ramirez said, in years past. the Office of Multicultural affairs (formerly the Minority. International and Non­Traditional office) had spon­>ored panel discussions but they did not organize a multi­cultural week. 
"There's a difference this year because there is more publicity and more student involvement which includes traditional and non-traditional students,"said Ramirez. 
According to her. student involvement has varied between Resident Advisors talking up the event in their dorms and student clubs orga­nizing events. 
"The different student clubs have been very involved by preparing food, setting up the fashion show and organizing meetings,"said Ramirez. 
Thursday's lecture should prove to be an interesting one, according to Ramirez. "It's not very often do we get to learn the contribution of American­African women in our country." 
"It's a great opportunity for both campuses to learn about a particular group of women who have been excluded from our community and our society," added Ramirez. 
The rest of the week's events include: 
• Tuesday -The Galen and 
see CULTt.J RAL I page 4 
London $269 St. Petersburg $399 Belize City $229 Rio de Janeiro $505 Bangkok $619 
Airfares are each Wi1f based on aroundtrip purchase and subject to change. Restrictons apply. Taxes not Included. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 


Nominee requests confidential documents 
By RICHARD KEIL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
While awaiting Senate con­firmation, President Clinton's nominee to oversee the gov­ernment's savings and loan cleanup requested confidential investigative documents involv­ing a Florida thrift executive he has known for years. 
The ethics rules for the Resolution Trust Corp., the S&L cleanup agency, mandate that all agency employees avoid even the "appearance of con­flicts of interest" by recusing themselves from cases involving individuals they know. 
In an Aug. 20 memo, which was obtained by The Associated Press, RTC president-designate Stanley Tate asked the agency's top lawyer to provide him a detailed status report on the investigations and lawsuits against Miami-based CenTrust Savings. 
Center 
continued from page 1 
their concession stand during the Northwestern game, which will be used toward expanding the library." 
The Women's Resource Committee is still having the open house despite recent problems they have had in get­ting University recognition of the center. 
"Student Affairs rejected our proposal for University recogni­tion," Glynn said, "but the com­mittee sent in a proposal last Thursday for recognition as a student club. Because our group is now in this application process. that's considered enough to be able to open the center." 
Although as a student organi­zation the center will receive a certain stipend from the University, the committee sees their recognition as such a group as only a stepping stone in the process to becoming an official University organization. 
"Being a student organization is only a stepping stone to be­coming an all-inclusive one also involving faculty and staff and funded by the University." 

"In order to better under­stand how the RTC initiates and manages action against direc­tors. officers and professional firms, I would like to use the CenTrust case as a starting point...," Tate's memo said. 
Tate requested details on "suits against individuals and professional firms" and said he recognized "some of this in­formation may be privileged and confidential." according to the memo. 
"I would be willing to sign a confidentiality agreement," Tate wrote in the memo to RTC acting general counsel Richard Aboussie. 
Tate, whose nomination is pending before the Senate Banking Committee, said in an interview with the AP he de­cided not to read the material after he received it because the package was marked "private and confidential." 
He added his relationship with former CenTrust president 
Glynn said. "Because [the Women's Resource Committee] has received support from all components of the University ­the Faculty Senate. the GSU and NO Student Government­the group should not only be limited to being a student group." 
Student Affairs could not be reached for comment. 
. 

The committee is in the pro­cess of forming an advisory group for the center which will be comprised of two University administrators. two faculty and one staff members. and two students. 
Eileen Kolman. associate provost of the Freshman Year of Studies and one of the ad­ministration representatives. has already been nominated as the group's official advisor. 
The advisory board members will be chosen and organized by the end of the week and will hold a meeting then to discuss future plans and ideas. accord­ing to Glynn. 
The center office hours planned for now will be from 3 to 7 p.m. on Monday. Wednesday. Thursday and Friday. and from 11 a.m. to 7 
p.m. on Tuesday. 

LEADERSHIP FORUM 
Open to all ND students for the development of 

Oct. 4 Oct. 11 
1 
Nov. 1 'Nov. 8 
1 
Nov. 15 personal leadership skills 

Time/Stress Management How to Coordinate a Project at ND How to be an Effective Leader Decision Making/Problem Solving Creating Change in an Organization 
7:00 Pi\'1 -H:OO Pi\ I 

Notre Dame Room (La Fortune Student Center) Refreshments provided 
David Paul had no bearing on his request. 
"I would never involve myself in something privileged," Tate said. "I've tried very hard not to interfere in policy matters or deal with things like that before I am confirmed." 
Paul. a Florida banker and developer, goes on trial Wednesday in Miami on crimi­nal charges he diverted $3.2 million in CenTrust money for his personal use, falsified his tax returns, and lied to federal regulators. 
The RTC still has pending liti­gation involving Paul and CenTrust. whose failure cost taxpayers $1.7 billion. 
Tate said he knows Paul pri­marily because the two served together during the mid -1980s on the board of Miami's Jackson Memorial Hospital. 
But two sources familiar with Tate's previous service on an RTC regional advisory board in 
Cultural 
continued from page 3 
Florida said Tate once orga­nized a luncheon for his board colleagues at Paul's office. 
One said Tate also talked about eating lunch with Paul on a weekly basis. Both spoke on condition they not be named. 
A former RTC official. also speaking on condition of anonymity. said Tate also at­tended -as a spectator -a RTC hearing against Paul this past spring in Florida. 
In the interview, Tate de­clined to answer whether he at­tended RTC proceedings involv­ing Paul. "I've been involved in so many RTC activities," he said. "Why don't you fixate on some of the good things that I've done." 
He denied eating lunch with Paul on a regular basis and said his dealings with the CenTrust head have been limit­ed to occasional get-togethers involving their service on the hospital board and other chari­table endeavors. 
Oriiversuy gives a lecture erib­tled "Race and Struggle in Women's History" 
• Friday -"Party in a Multicultural Way!" is being 
held at Haggar Parlor at7p.m.
Saud live jazz ensemble per­and is free. 
forms in Haggar Parlor at 7p.m. It's free and open to the 
"It's important to support
public. 
these events because it can
• Wednesday -The Protemi enrich the students' lives andBedi Indian Dance Group takes intellectuallives."said Ramirez. 
the stage at O'Laughlin ··u can increase the regular
Auditorium at 7p.m. with tick­understanding of the differnentets on sale at O'Laughlin. 
cultures which exist on cam­• Thursday -Darlene Clark pus."
Hine of Michigan State 
Clintons attend ceremony 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton attended on Sunday the "Red Mass," an annual Catholic ceremony for judges and other government officials that dates back to the Middle Ages 
Clinton, a Southern Baptist, was joined at the ceremony at St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washington by judges. cabinet members and lawmakers, in­cluding Chief Justice William Rehnquist and other members of the Supreme Court. Attorney General Janet Reno and District of Columbia Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly. 
Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, the archbishop of Chicago, warned the worshipers in his homily that the nation "is threatened with destruction and ruin by the forces of vio­lence and narrow self-inter­est." 
The cardinal said all must work for the common good, "a fundamental principle which serves as a basic pillar of our nation's understanding of its laws and system of justice." 
The Mass is held in Washington every October for judges. lawyers and offiCials of all faiths to seek guidance in the administration of justice. 


STUDENT EXCHANGES at 
Clark Atlanta University 
in Atlanta, Georgia 
Xavier University 
in New Orleans, Louisiana 
St. Mary's University 
in San Antonia, Texas 
St. Edward's University 
in Austin, Texas 
Informational Meeting Tuesday, Octobers, I993 s:oo • 9:00 p.m. IOZ DeBartolo Hall 
ALL N.D. JUNIORS WELCOME 


Monday, October 4, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Fulghum at SMC today
Encyclical offers moral guidance 
Officials resign amid report oflying in botched Waco cult raid 
~~~------------------...A PAlATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD ~ CLUB 23 L ~~~ ~ , '7/.A~~~.:~~~ ~RESENTS: ~A~~ , I ~~~~~ ~1~ a ~tt'-' ~~ ~<+ ~ ~~~ •I~~ , /~"'~.,. 234-4015 ,." ~~~ ~ T~te Btipt tla!ae-!Vo~th ()I t!te 8()~1(!,1<­ttt BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE DELIVERY AVAilABLE 234-4015  
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs in Spring Semester, 1994 Applications Due October 15, 1993 For more information please contact Dr. Claudia Kselman, Assistant Director International Study Programs 213 Main Building 631-5882  

Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 

The release of the Vatican's long-awaited encyclical reaf­firming traditional church pre­cepts was timed to offer clear moral guidance amid growing challenges to the teachings, Pope John Paul II suggested Sunday. 
"This document, much wait­ed for and elaborated at length, is only being published now because it appears convenient to make it precede as the cate­chism of the church rather than holding a complete and methodical Christian moral exposition," the pope said in a sermon at St. Peter's Basilica. 
He said the Roman Catholic Church feels obligated to guide followers who are "disoriented between so many discordant voices." 
The encyclical was started six years ago and is considered one of the pope's defining docu-
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Two senior government offi­cials who were accused in a re­port of lying and misleading the public after the botched Branch Davidian raid have resigned. 
Dan Hartnett. 53, associate ments. It sets an uncompromis­ing tone against theologians and others questioning funda­mental church teachings such as bans on birth control. divorce and homosexuality. 
It urges the world's bishops to adhere to strict church tenets and warns theologians they have "a grave duty to train the faithful" on them, accord­ing to a text published Sunday in The New York Times. 
The Vatican plans to officially release the 180-page encyclical on Tuesday. but details of the document "Veritatis Splendor" (The Splendor of Truth) have been published in the media. 
The pope said Sunday that the church cannot remain silent or alter its message "in order to favor transient ways." 
"A church that would indulge in this logic would no longer be the 'faithful spouse' of Christ'. " the pontiff said. 
The pope said the encyclical would "contribute to the best 
director of the Bureau of Alcohol. Tobacco and Firearms. and Dan Conroy. 50, deputy as­sociate A TF director. quit Saturday. The Dallas Morning News reported Sunday. 
Hartnett, a 24-year agency veteran, and Conroy. with the comprehension of the exact message of the Gospel" and he urged Roman Catholics to accept it with "quick and cor­dial adherence." 
The encyclical reportedly tells bishops they have an obligation to censure dissenting theolo­gians and remove the word Catholic from the names of universities, schools. hospitals and social-service agencies that do not reflect papal teaching. 
The pope does not invoke papal infallibility in the en­cyclical. but strongly reasserts the church's ability to identify and teach basic morality. 
"No damage must be done to the harmony between faith and life: the unity of the church is damaged not only by Christians who reject or distort the truths of faith but also by those wh_g disregard the moral obligati6ns to which they are called by the Gospel." the pope wrote, according to the text published in the Times. 
agency for 26 years, were the top ATF officials in Waco after the Feb. 28 raid. 
They were among five A TF officials placed on administra­tive leave last week after release of a Treasury Department review into the raid. The Treasury Department 
By LAURA FERGUSON Accent Writer 
Cowboy, salesman. artist, folk singer. parish minister, bar­tender, teacher of drawing and painting, writer, and philosopher Robert Fulghum will appear today at a book· signing at the Notre Dame Bookstore from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.. and lecture at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's at 7:30p.m. 
Fulghum is most widely known as the best-selling author of "Everything I Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten," "It Was On Fire When I Lay Down On It," "Uh­oh," and the recently released paperback "Maybe (Maybe­Not)." 
Robert Fulghum 

oversees the A TF. 
The report said the raid should have been canceled when an undercover A TF agent told commanders that cult leader David Koresh knew that agents were coming to arrest him and search for illegally stockpiled weapons. 

The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana and the Saint Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs present 
india 

dance 
ensemble 
Wednesday, October 6, 7:30p.m. O'Laughlln Auditorium Student tickets $3* 
*Call for adult, senior citizen, and group prices. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard, Discover orders at 219/284-4626. 
--tit-­
Saint Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
"Maybe (Maybe-Not)" is cur­rently ranked on national best­seller lists; his appearance in South Bend is part of a 20-city tour to promote the book. 
"Instead of a traditional book tour. Fulghum is speaking on behalf of worthy local organiza­tions to speak on well-being and his own humorous philoso­phies on life," according to Angel Ness of Ness Marketing and Communications. promot­ers for the Fulghum lecture. 
The lecture. sponsored by Michiana Community Hospital and the Indiana Association of Osteopathic Physicians and Surgeons. is one in a series of community lectures on health care and well being aiming at improving lives. according to Ness. 
All proceeds from the lecture will go to various needs in the community. among which are the joint efforts between the four Michiana hospitals to pro­vide health care for young mothers and those financially disadvantaged. 
The report said that Hartnett and Conroy, along with others in Washington, failed to take into account the inexperience of raid commanders in planning the raid, and did not recognize the need for less risky contin­gency plans. 
Peronists wtn tn Argentina 
By IAN KATZ 
Associarcd Press 
BUENOS AIRES 
The ruling Peronist Party appeared headed to victory Sunday in congressional elec· Uons that could affect President Carlos Menem's chances of nm· ning for a second term. 
Early exit polls conducted by Argentine TV stations indicated that the Peronists would win as expected in Buenos Aires province and run close with the opposition Civic Radical Union in the city of Buenos Aires. tra· ditionally an opposition strong· hold. 
Voters were electing half of the 257-seat Chamber of Deputies, nearly 400 members of provincial legislatures and more than 3,000 other local officials. Polls closed at 6 p.m. (5 p.m. EDT). 
The campaign focused on Menem's efforts to reform the 140-year-old constitution to allow him to run for re-election in 1995. The charter limits presidents to one six-year term. but can be amended by a two­thirds vote in both houses of congress. 
Even a convincing victory Sunday would not give the Peronlsts the seats they need for a re·election amendment. But Menem hopes a strong showing will give him political momentum and force the oppo· sition to agree to constitutional reform. 
More than 21 million people were to vote in this country of 33 million, where everyone aged 18 to 70 is obligated by law to cast a ballot. 

Army stops looting in quake-damaged area 
By VIJAY JOSHI 
Associat~d Press 

KILLARI. India 
The Indian army cracked down on looting in the coun­try's earthquake -stricken southwest on Sunday. taking control of police and civilian authorities and blocking out­siders from shattered villages. 
Tremors continued to shud­der through Maharashtra state, where as many as 30,000 peo­ple died in Thursday's earth­quake. 
In the days following the dis­aster. looters have slipped into villages in the guise of volun­teers, stripping corpses of jew­elry and wrecked homes of any valuables that could be carried away. relief workers said. 
''I'm not allowing anyone to­day to work in the villages un­less they are cleared by the army ... said Col. S.K. Joshi. head of the relief effort for Killari and four surrounding villages. 
"We are allowing only 'gen­uine voluntary groups in. They are being issued identification cards to avoid the thieving which has been going on the last two days." 
The army barricades brought more hardship to victims driven from their homes by the earth­quake. 
"I do not understand these men in uniforms. They won't even let me into my own house," said Jagannath 
More attacks amid ceasefire 
By SNJEZANA VUKIC Associated Press 
ZAGREB, Croatia 
At least one man died when Muslims attacked Muslims in northwestern Bosnia. just hours before Bosnian Croats and Muslims signed a new cease-fire for embattled Mostar. 
The man was killed and two people were wounded Sunday in Velika Kladusa. in the Bihac region, when supporters of Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic stormed the local radio station. said Col. Thierry Boutillier. commander of a French battalion of U.N. peace­keepers. 
He said police loyal to Bihac rebel leader Fikret Abdic man­aged to restore order. but the station remained in the hands of Abdic backers. 
Lawmakers in Bihac, a Muslim pocket in north western Bosnia. declared regional au­tonomy last Monday. Abdic has good relations with neighboring Croats and Serbs and is credit­ed with sparing the enclave from Bosnia's war. 
Three other Muslims were wounded Saturday in the vil­lage of Skokovi, also in Bihac. when Abdic supporters man­ning a roadblock fired on gov­ernment soldiers. 
The violence overshadowed a Croat-Muslim agreement to stop the fighting and protect civilians in the Mostar area. The pact was signed Saturday at Medjugorje. 12 miles south­west of Mostar, news reports said Sunday. 
It was not immediately clear when it was to take effect. However, many truces have been declared and violated in Bosnia's 18-month war. 
The croat-Muslim accord also provides for the evacuation of wounded and the exchange of prisoners, Croatia's Hina news agency reported. Both sides also agreed to let Spanish U.N. peackekeepers monitor its im­plementation. 
Kumble. a 65-year-old farmer who was stopped from entering his village. 
Helicopters dropped food in isolated villages. and medical teams began a massive opera­tion to inoculate survivors against cholera. Officials fear the disease may spread through water contaminated by the putrefying bodies of people and livestock. 
Authorities decided to set up new townships for survivors. abandoning many devastated villages. New sites will be found within two weeks. said Anil Pawar. a local administrator. 
Dozens of volunteer groups have arrived in Maharashtra state. bringing food. drinking water and temporary shelters to earthquake victims. But many remote villages off the main roads remain without aid. 
Army vehicles. private relief workers and tens of thousands of curiosity seekers jammed the region's roads. The heavy traf­fic combined with a steady rain to churn muddy streets into slippery slush. 
Volunteers gave uncooked rice to refugees who had no pots to boil it or firewood to cook with. 
"We have to drink water with our cupped hands," said Jainab Sheikh. 30. whose village was demolished. 
Survivors swarmed relief vans whenever they stopped. Without organized distribution. the weak went hungry. 

Kenya accused of failure to protect Somali refugees 
Associated Press 

NAIROBI 
A human rights group has accused Kenya of failing to pro­tect Somali women refugees from rape. 
The government has shown "an appalling lack of concern for the plight of Somali refugees," the New York-based Africa Watch said in a report released Sunday. 
Victims of rape and sexual assault in and around Kenya's refugee camps ranged from 4­year-old girls to 50-year-old women, the report said. Most victims were also robbed, beat­en, knifed or shot. it said. 
Refugees have been attacked by Kenyan bandits and Somali raiders from across the poorly guarded border. the report said. Some women have re­ported being raped by Kenyan police or military personnel. 
The report said 192 refugee women reported being raped in the first seven months of this year. 
The Kenyan government has said it does not sanction rape. The government blames the assaults on criminals who get firearms in Somalia. 
About 300.000 Somalis live in refugee camps in northeastern Kenya. 
The United States said last week that it will give Kenya $3.5 million to improve security along its border with Somalia. 
Africa Watch said the United States should require Kenyan authorities to spend some of the money on improving secu­rity in refugee camps. 


what's 


1-800-COLLECT BM 
• 

m 

America's Inexpensive Way To Call Someone Collect.~ 
Dial it instead of "0" and save up to 44%. 
For long dlsta.nce oollect calls. Vs. ATo!IT operator dl&led 3 min. Interstate c&ll. 
Monday, October 4, 1993 
Rebels harbor hatred ofYeltsin 
By THOMAS GINSBERG 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

The anti-Yeltsin demonstra­tors who tore through down­town Moscow had one thing in common: hatred for Boris Yeltsin and willingness to stop at almost nothing to remove him. 
Their well-organized assault Sunday on the government's riot police was a dramatic show of unity, if only a day's worth. that must have shaken the con­fidence of Yeltsin supporters. 
But if Sunday's demonstra­tors ever triumphed and tried to run Russia. their rule would likely run aground on their own differences. 
The attackers' leaders were a hardcore group of nationalists, communists and fascists, the cutting edge of a violent. loosely organized coalition against Boris Yeltsin. Unlike many more peaceful protesters. they taunted soldiers. ignored calls for restraint and grabbed any weapons they could. 
Yeltsin himself long has dis­missed his opposition as aging Communists and political mis­fits wedded to an outmoded system. Many rallies have been dominated by elderly people waving Soviet flags. 
But despite Yeltsin's public assurances. Russia has been seeing the growth for at least a year of a far broader anti­Yeltsin bloc of monarchists, Communists. anti-Semitic fas­cists and Cossacks. joined at times by bureaucrats, state fac­tory and farm directors. and even some Orthodox Christian groups. 
Within this bloc is a hard core of former Red Army soldiers who have fought in conflicts across the Commonwealth of Independent States. usually with the goal of destabilizing independent-minded former Soviet republics. These soldiers are furious at the destruction of the Soviet Union and would like the new nations formed from the U.S.S.R. to fail and fall back to Moscow's control. 
They are aghast at the deteri­oration of the powerful Soviet army into a poorly paid. poorly housed force with little sense of mission. struggling to maintain morale and discipline. 
An unknown number of those young, battled-hardened fight­ers rushed to Moscow during the 13-day standoff between the parliament and the presi­dent. 
They joined the ranks of self· styled defenders at the white marble building, whose com· manders included Gen. Albert Makashov, who had helped plan Soviet operations in Afghanistan in the 1980s. 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities Wednesday, October 6, 1993 ~ .. -.. .~ ...... 8:00p.m. ·o Notre Dame Room Morris Inn Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources Recent Notre Dame Alumni will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. All majors encouraged to attend. Refreshments will be served. FALL INTERVIEW DATES: ACCENT November 11-12, 1993 (Information Systems Management) TTMP November 11, 1993 (Telecommunications) FMDP November 12, 1993 (Financial Management) MCEBO ASSOCIATES November 9, 1993 (Managed Care and Employee Benefits) TheTravelerST' America's Umbrella sM  

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, October 4, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE. DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

M:uuging Editor Bwine.u Manager 
Ktvin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

New~ Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instimtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcncrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
s~~Photo  631-4543 631-5323  Systems/OTS Office Manager  631-8839 631-7471  


CHARLES RICE RIGHT OR WRONG? 

The National Conference of ment as a great "Research Urn-Catholic Bishops has proposed versity." The criteria for that eight ordinances to implement recognition are secular. And, Ex corde Ecclesiae, the Apos-despite the professed desire of tolic Constitution of Catholic its Administration to maintain a higher education which Pope "Catholic character," the Uni-John Paul II issued in 1990. In versity is so allergic to any his August 30 letter to the juridical connection with the Notre Dame faculty and staff, Catholic Church that even the the University president. Fr. feeble symbolism of the pro-Edward Malloy. C.S.C., de-posed ordinances triggers a scribed these proposed ordi-negative reaction. This is so nances as "legalistic in tone 1 because. with no formal tie and hierarchical in orienta-! with the Church. the Univer­tion." He described three of I sity's Catholic profession tends them (5. 6 and 7) as "especially itself to become a mere symbol-problematic in their approach ism. to the role of the Catholic the-In his Aug. 30 letter. Fr. Mal­
ologian in the context of aj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yn~edili~ ,hepe~en~ge
Catholic university." 

Fr. Malloy invited comment from members of the Notre prescription that "the institu-Dame community to aid in tiona) fidelity of the university preparing the University's for-to the Christian message in­mal response to the ordinances eludes a recognition of and ad-by Dec. 31. 1993. herence to the teaching author-
The first thing to note about ity of the church in matters of the ordinances is that they are faith and morals." (No. 2 7) vague and toothless. The Code Proposed ordinance 6. how-of Canon Law (Canon 812) pro-ever. reduces the requirement vides: "It is necessary that of a mandate to a practical nul­those who teach theological dis-lity: "Catholic professors of ciplines in any institute of high-theological disciplines are to be er studies have a mandate from advised by academic officials of the competent ecclesiastical the Church's expectation that authority." Ex corde Ecclesiae they request the mandate from (General Norm 4(3)) states: "In the ... diocesan bishop or his ways appropriate to the differ-delegate (cf. Canon 812). Ac­ent academic disciplines. all cordingly. the bishop_is to invite Catholic teachers are to be the Catholic professor to re-faithful to. and all other teach-quest a mandate aJtd. after ap­ers are to respect. Catholic doc-propriate review, the bishop is trine and morals in their re-to respond to the request." search and teaching. In par-Proposed ordinance 5 de­ticular. Catholic theologians. scribes the mandate as "recog­aware that they fulfill a man-nition by the competent ecclesi­date received from the church, astical authority of a Catholic are to be faithful to the magis-professor's suitability to teach terium of the church as the theological disciplines." authentic interpreter of sacred Proposed ordinance 7 provides Scripture and sacred tradition." procedures to resolve any "dis-
This requirement is an appli-pute" that may arise. cation of Ex corde Ecclesiae's While Canon 812 says that 
DOONESBURY 

... U.S. T08ACXXJ COMPANI8S TUM Af:IJ.INST 5MOKJN6 • 5TH£ POUT/CAL-MOM&N­
Pl-Y 7Ht GW/3~ l(J(}(INfJ FOR (ONTINU/33 TO 8U/W... 
N/3W, UN&XPto!TW MARK£75. 
the mandate is "necessary," proposed ordinance 6 merely provides that Catholic profes­sors of theology be "advised" of the Church's expectation that they request the mandate. The ordinances are silent as to what happens if the university fails to advise the professor of that ex­pectation or if the professor chooses not to apply for it. 
The bishop is to "invite," rather than require, the pro­fessor to apply for the mandate. Nor do the ordinances require that the professor's contract with the university include any reference to the mandate. In effect, these vague and unen­forceable ordinances are an exercise in empty symbolism. Still, even they are objection­able to the Notre Dame Admin­istration. 
Fr. Malloy's description of ordinances 5, 6 and 7 as "espe­cially problematic" in the con­text of his overall description of the ordinances as "legalistic in tone and hierarchical in orien­tation." reflects the effort of Notre Dame to maintain a of Catholic faculty University-
wide has gone from 66 percent "Catholic" character with effec-in 1970 to 61 percent in 1980 tively no juridical relation to the to 58 percent in 1992. In addi­Catholic Church. tion, new hires in the last three 
The Land O'Lakes declara-years have been 46 percent. 42 tion. adopted by Notre Dame percent and 3 7 percent and other major Catholic uni-Catholic." And those figures versities in 1967. stated that include every faculty member "the Catholic university must who checked the "Catholic" box have a true autonomy and aca-on the form. "I read the evi­demic freedom in tpe face of dence," said Fr. Malloy. "to sug­authority of whatever kind. lay gest that we have a problem or clerical. external to the aca-that needs to be addressed." demic community itself." In No kidding. 1968. Notre Dame transferred The problem is that erosion of its control from the Congrega-the Catholic character and tion of Holy Cross to a lay-de-presence inevitably follows sev­nominated board of trustees. erance of the juridical con­The most important decisions nection with the Church. The are reserved to the twelve Fel-discussion of the proposed or­lows of the University. six of dinances ought to focus. not on whom must be Holy Cross evading, but on strengthening priests. The Congregation it-them. And it should include the self. however. does not control question of whether it is not the University. time for the Congregation of 
Notre Dame has not liberated Holy Cross finally to rouse itself itself from external authority. from its torpor to resume legal For the authority of the Catholic control of the University and Church it has substituted the reestablish its connection with more demanding authority of the Church. the secular academic estab-Professor Rice is on the Law lishment. Notre Dame pursues School faculty. His column ap­recognition by that establish-pears every other Monday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
... MR. BUTT5 15 H05TIN6 A 7WN ME£TIN6. 
" A 11 men have in them­
I\selves that which is truly honorable. Only they do not think of it." 
Mencius 
Chinese Philosopher 
(372-289 B.C.) 


RECEIVERS CATCH ON 
• Mike Miller (right) and the Irish receiving corps made its biggest impact of the season Saturday. 
Story page 4 


Irish make the Cardinal blue in rout 

Derrick Mayes lunges to grab Kevin McDougal's touchdown strike late in the first half of Saturday's 48-20 win over Stanford. 
Big plays help avenge last year's loss 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO,Ca. 

With the third quarter halfway gone it was decided that this day belonged to Notre Dame. 
Lake Dawson and Derrick Mayes had twice taken ofT their helmets for the cam­era, people were talking about Clint Johnson as the next Rocket Ismail, and Lou Holtz was preparing his speech about how this win wasn't sweet revenge. 
Notre Dame's 48-20 win Saturday under the blazing sun at Stanford Stadium was revenge, in a big way. Twelve Irish wins ago the Cardinal pulled the upset at Notre Dame Stadium 33-16 and they paid for it Saturday. 
"In my four years here we've lost to them twice," said quarterback Kevin McDougal. "We wanted to come in here and beat them on their own turf." 
"You go in thinking about revenge until the first snap," said defensive tackle Oliver Gibson, "and then you concentrate on what you have to do." 
The Irish did what they had to do,and then some. Notre Dame played near-flaw­less football, winning all facets of the game 
See ROUT/page 2 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

JOCK STRIP 
Option alive and well, right coach? 
N
otre Dame football coach Lou Holtz must be con­fused. 
"We can't run the option." "We can run the option." "We must run the option, 


but we can't." Please coach make up your 
GEORGE mind. The Irish 48-20 DOHRMANN 
win at Stanford Sports Editor Stadium was due greatly to the presence of, what else, the option. 
Holtz acting like typical Holtz has pointed to the weaknesses in the Irish offense all year. Most of his tears have fallen over Notre Dame's inability to run the option. 
His fears came to a climatic conclusion last Tuesday when he told reporters that the option was a thing of the past under the Golden Dome. It was gone, graduated with the Tony Rices and the Rick Mirers, never to be re-admitted. 
See DOHRMANN/ page 2 

Johnson helps Notre Dame return the favor 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Spons Ediwr 
PALO ALTO, Calif. 
Clint Johnson wants it his way. Lou lloltz wants it his. Saturday they found a happy medium, and with it success. 
"At first I didn't want to do it (the kickoff return) as coach Holtz said," said Johnson. "I wanted to run it to the side. I found out today what happens when you do what coach says." 
What happened was the se­nior flanker turned in his best performance in an Irish uni­form, returning two kickoffs for 179 yards and a touchdown. 
But it wasn't a matter of coach knows best. lloltz also inserted a new kick return strategy at the request of his players. 
"For years we ran only one return, but a few weeks ago we put in a second. I didn't want to do it, but players convinced me," said Holtz. 
They will have no trouble convincing Holtz to try it again. Johnson finished with returns of 79 and 100 yards, the latter being the first kickoff return for a touchdown against Stanford since "The Play" at Cal in 1982. 
On Tuesday, Johnson wasn't sure he would be on the playing field, let alone the star of the game. lie lost his concentration and dropped a kickoff in prac­tice, a mental error which Holtz doesn't take lightly. 

"Coach Holtz was pretty upset with me," said Johnson. "He put somebody else in my place. I think it was a motivational thing." 
Johnson did not run with the first unit for the remainder of the week, but on Friday Holtz recognized his hard work in practice and gave him the job. 
Johnson thanked him by in­strumenting the new return to perfection. 
With less than minute left in the half, Johnson fielded Aaron Mills kickoff at the goaline and following the new return plan, jetted to the right. He was hauled down 79 yards later. and two plays later Notre Dame had a comfortable 20-6 lead. 
"Before half I thought I was going to go all the way," said Johnson, who also scored on a kickoff return in 1991 against Hawaii. "I didn't think they were going to kick to me again to start the second half." 
With 6:30 remaining in the third quarter Stanford sent the ball towards Johnson again. The senior flanker sprinted to the left while his blockers built a wall to to the right, creating the illusion that the return was going that way. 
No Cardinal defender came within ten yards of Johnson be­fore he reached midfield. He ran untouched until his team­mates mobbed him in the end­zone. 
"I looked up-field, and all the blockers were to the right and I went left," said Johnson. "I cut inside at about midfield and then it was a foot race." 
It was a change from Holtz's traditional return which em­phasizes straight-ahead run­ning while looking for a seam in the defense. 
"The players thought other teams knew what we were do­ing," said Holtz about the change, "I really didn't want to do it." 
Johnson did, but he had trou­ble convincing Holtz to give him the shot. 
Mike Miller handled most of the Irish return duties, and until the Purdue matchup Johnson wasn't even an option. Against the Boilermakers he got his first chance and re­turned the opening kickoff 53 yards. 
"I had gone into the season working on being solely a wide r~eiver," said Johnson. "Coach Holtz felt that we weren't get­ting enough productivity out of our return team, so he gave me another chance." 
"Clint really wants to run it," said Holtz. "We just have a dif­ferent opinion of how it should be run." 
But somewhere in between it works out perfectly. 

Clint Johnson brings the ball out of the endzone on his second kickoff return. 

SEASON CUMULATIVE AVERAGE: 
QUARTERBACKS 
Not many passing opportunities, bur McDougal and Failla proved they were capable of making big plays 
RUNNING BACKS 
Adding depth each week and a maturing Kinder proved Saturday that he is ready for the big time 
RECEIVERS 
Dawson and Mayes were simply perfect and Miller's lone reception was one of the best in his career 
0-LINE 
Opened some big holes and depth is improving, but injury to Leahy is a big blow 
D-UNE 
Steady as always, but not enough pressure on Stenstrom to keep his numbers down 
LINEBACKERS 
Sample and Goheen continue to fill the void left by the loss of both opening-day starters 
SECONDARY 
Bobby Taylor. Bobby Taylor. Bobby Taylor. Gave up big yardage but no big plays 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Pendergast missed a PAT, but without Johnson's returns it would have been a much different game 
COACHING 
Vindication for Holtz after last year's loss to Stanford and last week's poor performance at Purdue 
FINAL SCORE 
Yes, it was the same team that played Purdue a week ago. This week the Irish executed in every phase of the game to dominate the Cardinal 
3.2651 

~ 
. 
. 
~n·.'f
1!!!1 lA i 

~ 

Rout 
from page 1 

en route to their fifth win of the sea­son. 
It was a big day for the big play, and the 5-foot-8 180 pound Johnson came out looking like a giant. He closed the door on any thoughts of Stanford comeback, taking a second half kickoff five yards deep in the endzone and 100 yards later building the Notre Dame lead to an insurmountable 34-13. 
It was Johnson's second contribution to the Irish offense, the first coming on a 79-yard return with 47 seconds left 
in the first half, setting up a nine-yard touchdown grab by Derrick Mayes. Johnson was not 
the only source of big PIays. McDougal had a hand in all three of Notre Dame's rushing touch­downs, scoring twice on option runs of 17 and 19 yards and pitching 
to  tailback  Lee  
Becton  for  an­ 
other.  

ft was fitting 
"When I said that at the press con­ference, I was flat serious about it," said Holtz. "We went back into the coaches meeting and I wasn't in a good mood. We decided that Kevin would have to learn to do." 
McDougal seemed to have a firm grasp on the concept Saturday, and against the Cardinal man defense he was able to round end untouched on both scoring runs. 
The option set up the pass and the inside running game, which got a boost from freshman Randy Kinder, who rushed for 104 yards on 16 carries in 
his first start. 
e  l p ayer 0  f th e  G arne e  
CLINT JOHNSON  
5'8" 180 lbs. Senior SpUt End  

• Johnson retumed two kick­offs for 179 yards, including a 
100 yard touchdown to ignite the Irish rout. W. first return of 79 yards set up a Notre 
j d
Dame touchdown ust secon s before the end of the first half. 
that the option..________________. but failed to guide 
When Kinder wasn't running McDougal was throwing, and he did with accuracy, finishing 7 -of-9 for 135 yards. Backup Paul Failla even etched his name on the stat sheet with an 80-yard scoring strike to Mayes in the third 
quarter. Defensively, the Irish fell victim to the Stanford short passing game. 
Quarterback Steve Stenstrom was 34­45 for 315 yards, 
attack Lou Holtz declared dead at mid­week turned out to be the most detri­mental to the Stanford defense. 
"We made some good defensive plays, some fabulous plays, but we still can't fathom the option," said Stanford coach Bill Walsh. "The option is a great play when you can execute it," McDougal said. "We always had confidence in our ability to run it, we just didn't concentrate on it in the past few games. Today, we did." 
Tuesday Holtz told reporters that he was scrapping the option because of teams inability to run it consistently. He changed his mind at practice. 
the Cardinal to the endzone. Two first half drives stalled inside the twenty. and two Eric Abrams field goals didn't match Notre Dame's three first half 
scores. 
Along with Mayes' catch and McDougal's first scoring run, Willie Clark scored on nine-yard run to build Notre Dame's 20-6 at halftime lead. 
McDougal's second touchdown run opened the second half scoring and after an Ellery Roberts score shrunk Notre Dame's lead to 27-13, Johnson went back to receive the kickoff. A minute later the score was 34-13 and Notre Dame had its revenge. 
Dohrmann 
from page 1 
But with the exception of Clint "Cosmic" Johnson the option was the key to beating Stanford. And from that alone, we assume, that Notre Dame's option attack is currently enrolled at the University. 
"We got upset on Tuesday," Holtz said. "When I said that in the press conference, I was flat serious about it We went back into the coaches meeting and I wasn't in a good mood. We de­cided Kevin (McDougal) would definitely have to learn it. We thought it was something we had to do and we made some progress." 
More than "some," Notre Dame abused the Stanford perimeter defense, running the option only three times, but each building the Irish lead by six. 
''I'm not to happy about run­ning it but it works," said Mc­Dougal, who scored two of the option touchdowns. "I realized I better get it straightened out if we were going to get the of­fense straightened out." 
McDougal looked like a sea­soned option quarterback, pitching to tailback Lee Becton for a third quarter touchdown, just as a Stanford linebacker wrapped him up. 
"I knew we were going to run it," said McDougal. "Its in his offense." 
Not according to Holtz, not last Tuesday, when all hope was lost and Notre Dame was of all things, out of options. 
"We don't run it much, but it is a good thing to have," said Holtz. 
Do we have it? We will see it next week? "~e've got to get a lot bet­ter. 
So confusing. 


Monday, October 4, 1993 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY page3 


The Observer/Jake Peters 
Willie Clark finds some daylight on the way to a big gain in the first half of Saturday's 48-20 win over Stanford. 
, 
I, j .,., 
' ' f" <. 

·~ 
~¥t0<~,:·.:. ·... 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Jeremy Sample wraps up Stanford running back
Steve Stenstrom spots Ethan Allen open in the flat. 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 
NO 7 13 21 7 48 Stanford 3 3 14 0 20 
SCORING SUMMARY 
TEAM STATISTICS 
NO su 

First Downs 21 24 by rushing 15 8 by passing 5 16 by penalty 0 
Total Yardage 475 395 Offensive plays 64 75 Avg. yards per play 7.4 5.3 
Rushing yards 264 74 Rushing plays 54 28 
Passing yards 211 321 Passes Completed 8 34 Passes Attempted 10 47 Passes Intercepted 0 
Ellery Roberts. 
NO RUSHING 

ATT YOS AVG. TO Kinder 16 104 6.5 0 McDougal 4 42 10.5 2 Zellars 9 41 4.5 0 Clark 11 34 3.3 1 Becton 6 25 4.2 1 Edwards 2 10 5 0 Lytle 3 8 2.7 0 Farmer 2 2 1 0 Failla 1 -2 -2 0 
NO PASSING 

COMP ATT YOS TO McDougal 7 9 131 Failla 1 1 80 
NO RECEIVING 

NO YOS AVG TO Mayes 3 101 33.7 2 Dawson 3 62 20.7 0 Miller 1 46 46 0 
NO DEFENSE 

TOT TL SAC PBU Sample 10 1-1 0 0 Goheen 9 .5-1 0 0 Taylor 8 0 0 2 Burris 7 0 0 1 Tatum 6 1-11 1 0 Young 6 1-1 0 0 Lane 5 1-19 0 0 Magee 5 0 0 1 Wooden 5 0 0 1 Gibson 4 1.5-2 0 0 Cobbins 3 0 0 0 Berry 2 0 0 0 Dansby 2 0 0 0 Hamilton 2 2·11 1·8 0 Saddler 2 0 0 0 Covington 1 0 0 0 Davis 0 0 0 
STANFORD RUSHING 
ATT YOS AVG TO Roberts 14 55 3.9 1 Mitchell 6 28 4.7 0 Manning 18 18 0 Allen 6 6 0 Frost 2 2 0 Stenstrom 5 -35 -7 0 
STANFORD PASSING 
COMP ATT YOS TO Stenstrom 34 46 321 1 Armour 0 1 0 0 
STANFORD RECEIVING 
NO YOS AVG TO Armour 7 91 13 0 Allen 6 33 5.5 0 Manning 4 77 19.3 1 Cline 4 50 12.5 0 Roberts 4 21 5.3 0 Shaw 3 22 7.3 0 Harris 2 26 13 0 Comella 2 6 3 0 Kirwan 14 14 0 Mitchell 1 -19 -19 0 
STANFORD DEFENSE 
TOT TL SAC PBU Garnett 8 0 0 0 Norwood 8 2-2 0 0 Bryant 7 0 0 0 Gibbs 7 0 0 0 Fisk 6 1-3 0 0 Watts 6 1-6 0 0 Strand 5 0 0 0 Carder 4 0 0 0 Davis 4 0 0 0 Parker 4 0 0 0 Swanson 3 0 0 0 Hebert 2 0 0 0 Phillips 2 0 0 
~-------~ 

The Observer/Jake Peters Randy Kinder became the first Irish freshman since 1982 to rush for more than 100 yards in a game. 
1013 POINTS 9126 
1. Florida 1548 1 
2. AI 1473 2 
3. Miami 1407 3 
4. Notre 1368 4 
5. Florida 1285 5 
6. Ohio State 1203 7 
7. Nebraska 1140 6 
8. Penn State 1091 9 
9. Michigan 1040 8 10. Oklahoma 989 10 11. Tennessee 948 11 12. Arizona 914 12 13. Was hi 746 15 14. Texas A&M 3-1-0 742 14 15. North Carolina 5-1-0 584 16 16. California 5-0..0 571 17 17. Louisville 5-0-0 553 18 18. Virginia 5-0...0 460 21 19. Brigham Young 4-0-{) 455 20 20. Colorado·· 2-2~0 394 19 21. Wisconsin 4-0-0 380 22 22. Auburn 258 23 23. Syracuse 214 13 24. West Virginia '209 25 25. UCLA 52 

.. 
OTR  TEAM  PLAY  TIME  
1  NO  Clark 9 run  4:40  
(Pendergast kick)  
1  su  Abrams 23 FG  6:27  
2  NO  McDougal 17 run  3:07  
(Pendergast kick)  
2  su  Abrams 34 FG  3:35  
2  NO  Mayes 9 pass  0:23  
(kick failed)  
3  NO  McDougal 19 run  5:47  
(Pendergast kick)  
3  su  Roberts 1 run  2:43  
(Abrams kick)  
3  NO  Johnson 100 kickoff return 0:15  
(Pendergast kick)  
3  su  Manning 30 pass  1:54  
(Abrams kick)  
3  NO  Becton 9 run  2:39  
(Pendergast kick)  
4  NO  Mayes 80 pass  2:52  
(Pendergast kick)  


.. 
Others receiv : Clemsbll ·· , Oregon 20, Fresno State 18, Boston College 15, Kansas State 12, Indiana 8, Kentucky 3, Michigan State 3, North Carofina __,.§_tate 3 Memphis State 2, Rutgers 2, Sta ech 2, Army 1, Oklahoma State 

The Obse.ver/Brendan Regan 
page 4 

The Observer· FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, October 4, 1993 
Receivers make the most of few opportunities 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz is reluctant to fill the sky with footballs, even if it's a sunny California sky. 
The Notre Dame quarterbacks threw the ball as often in last week's down­pour at Purdue as they did in Saturday's sunbath at Stanford. 
Irish co-quarterbacks Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla have been inconsistent passers early in the season, forcing Holtz to keep the ball on the ground. 

The Observer/Jake Peters Lake Dawson breaks a tackle on the way to 
a big gain. 
-
0 z<t 
:EN 
QN 
cc.. 

But after the performance of his receivers against the Cardinal, he may think about altering his game plan. 
Lost in the shadows of Clint Johnson's kickoff returns and Randy Kinder's 104 yard rushing performance was the clutch play of the Irish receivers. 
They  call  themselves  AFROS­ 
"America's  Finest  Receivers  on  
Saturday."  

This Saturday, they lived up to their name. 
Mike Miller leaped high into the air to haul in a 46-yard pass from McDougal to set up Notre Dame's first score. 
Derrick Mayes stretched is gluey hands as far as they could reach to snag a bullet from McDougal for a touchdown near the end of the first half. It was the first time this season an Irish receiver has caught a touchdown pass. 
"It's all about timing," Mayes said. "It was bound to happen [catching a touch­down pass] sometime with one of the re­ceivers. I'm just happy it was me." 
McDougal also found Lake Dawson with a 32-yard strike early in the fourth quarter to set up another Irish touch­down. 
Then it was Mayes again, running under an 80-yard bomb from Paul Failla to score the game sealing touchdown. It was the longest play from scrimmage this season. 
In all, the trio collected seven of nine passes for 211 yards and two touch­downs. 
Big results from few opportunities. 
"We [the receivers] were one of the big factors in the game because of the type of defense Stanford plays," Mayes said. "We don't think much about how often we throw the ball, we just want to take advanfi1ge of the opportunities when they come." 
They haven't come very often in recent weeks. Slick conditions at Purdue kept the Irish on the ground and when they did 

The Observer/Jake Peters Mike Miller tries to elude Kevin Garnett on his 46-yard first quarter reception. 
go to the air, McDougal's passes were generally off target. 
Against Stanford the Irish stayed on the ground not because of the weather, but because it was working. 
Kinder's 100 yard performance was the first by an Irish freshman since 1982 and McDougal ran for 42 yards of his own. 
That opened up the passing gam~. which was used sparingly but very sue-
OMINATOB 
MONDAYS ~rs EJXUESDAYS 
30iucESorderv.ithyour 
cessfully against the Cardinal. 
Mayes believes that Holtz is not reluc­tant to pass the ball. Hather, he is reluctant to abandon an improving run­ning attack. 
"If you look at the Michigan and Michigan State games, we threw the ball 22 or 24 times," Mayes said. "It's just a matter of how our running game is go­ing. It doesn't matter how many oppor­tunities we get, what matters is whether or not .we take. advantage Qf thmn." 
D 
OMDIAXOJI 
~rs 
SPECIA£ 
CHEESE DOMINATOR 
$6.95 
EXTRA 
TOPPINGS••• $1.90EACH 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 

r'f!rc!~ favorite toppings. CNer 2 feet long.
VZZid 

~LS 30 inches...That's almost ayard of pizza.
S,ONIWOO 

Vdld of ~tng lflns orly. Not void wl111 TWISTY BREAD & SAUCE .... 1.95 any aiiW dlor. Pllcol may vary. CUs!arw pays Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce oo1os tax-. apptc:alja Dolw<y arooo lmtool 
Available Upon Request
to omurt taft ctMng o.. a-.carry lou ll1an S20 00. 0.. -..art nd ponatlltd for 11111 d-. 11193 Soutl Btnl 1'122a Cap.. n~ 
COKE or DIET COKE .....65/ can
Uniltd Tlmt Otlw 

ACCENT 
Monday, October 4, 1993 page 9 
Beyond the profit motive 
Local businesses help to clothe needy children 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Writer 
"Our only goal is to clothe children in St. Joseph County," said Julann Bauer of The Christ Child Society. the South Bend organization currently sponsoring the Clothe-A-Child campaign with the help of various local businesses. 
The Christ Child Society. staffed entirely by volunteers. provides new and like-new clothes to some of the over 
8.000 children currently living in pover­ty in the St. Joseph community. 
When the organization was founded in 1947. the members themselves donated and distributed the clothing to citizens in need. 
According to Bauer. a volunteer and current board member. the inability of members to meet the growing needs of low income families soon necessitated an appeal to the community at large. 
With initiatives like the new Clothe-A­Child campaign, they have targeted the customers of some of Michiana 's most frequented businesses. including Martin's Supermarkets. Burger King, Kroger. Sam's Club, and the Kid's Store, Inc. 
Support from both the businesses and their patrons has been superb. 
The Clothe-A-Child campaign, in effect from September 13 to October 11, cen­ters around the sale of paper dolls for $1 each. 
Customers who purchase the dolls, which depict young boys and girls bun­dled in winter clothes, may then write their family or business names on the dolls. color them, and hang them in the windows of the stores. 
Because The Christ Child Society is staffed entirely by volunteers. none of the money from donations will be spent on administrative costs. 
Along with membership dues, dona­
tions and other fund raising projects, all 
proceeds from Clothe-A-Child will be 
used to purchase clothing in bulk from 
select dealers. 
Bauer said that the goal of this partic­
ular campaign is to sustain the supply of 
funds and clothing through the winter. 
Each year. the influx of donations 
slows down continuously. and by 
Christmas, the demands simply cannot 
be met. 
With the help of local businesses 
through the Clothe-A-Child campaign, 
Bauer and others hope that this 
decrease in the supply will be eliminat­
ed. 
Tracie Davis. Advertising Assistant at 
Martin's, stated that support for com­
munity service organizations has 
become an integral part of this chain's 
daily business. 
The supermarket, a locally owned 
chain founded by Martin and Jane 
Tarnow, has always supported efforts 
similar to Clothe-A-Child. 
"From the beginning, [the Tarnows] felt their success depended on their cus­tomers." said Davis. who has also helped organize fundraisers for the Madison Center and literacy Council. 
"The community made us what we are, and we feel a responsibility to give back to the community." 
Groups approach Martin's and other businesses regularly for help in fundraising. but according to Davis. it is creative projects. rather than requests for monetary and product donations. that Martin's chooses to support. 
Davis remcl.l"ked on the unique nature Christ Child has done a fantastic job." 
Burger King. which is frequented by citizens of every economic and cultural background, has played a major role in making Clothe-A-Child visible and suc­cessful in the Michiana community. 
With eight local restaurants partici­pating, the fast food chain is demon­strating a continued commitment to the children of St. Joseph county. 

of Clothe-A-Child and the determination of The Christ Child Society in promoting the campaign. 
"Most promotions like this are self­sustaining," she said. "It was unique.... a new slant on a new program. and 
"We like to be a good corporate citi­zen," said Shelly Myers. Marketing Assistant at Burger King. 
Pat Ladewski. Marketing Director of Burger King, named a series of other efforts. including the "Hole-In-One" pro­gram in conjunction with Society Bank and the St. Joseph Care Foundation, and the "You Can Lend a Hand" coupon books sold every February. 
"We are involved in every school in our retail trading zone," remarked Ladewski. who noted Burger King's con­tinuing commitment to child weHare. 
He explained that when calls for dona­tions come in to his office. programs focusing of children always receive con­sideration and support in whatever capacity Burger King can provide it. 
In addition to selling paper dolls. Burger King is providing an extra ser­vice in the form of four "benefit nights" on September 15, 22. 29. and October 6. 
Twenty percent of all receipts collect­ed between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. at select locations on these evenings will be donated to the campaign. 
The location of the next and last bene­fit night. October 6, is the Burger King at 1113 Ireland Road, South Bend. 
The winter coats. shoes and other necessities that will be purchased with revenues from Burger King, Martin's, and other local businesses will be given to clients of The Christ Child Society. which come upon referral from the South Bend Community School Corps, various parish priests. homeless shel­ters. hospitals, and other agencies. 
Sarah Goetz. coordinator of the United Religious Community Advocacy Center, makes referrals to The Christ Child Society on a regular basis. 
"I just think the world of it.'' she said of the program. "They're so sensitive to a child's seH-esteem and seH-worth." 
Unlike many programs that collect and distribute secondhand materials, Christ Child is rare in its concerted attempt to provide new and like-new clothing. 
"We're dealing with a lot of pride here.. .It's hard enough to be a child and be poor." said Goetz. 
People being referred to Christ Child 
include both married couples and single 
parents. and all may have personal rea­
sons for being unwilling to accept dona­
tions. 

Goetz suggested that by improving the 
quality of the clothes provided, the soci­
ety indicates a sense of respect for its 
clients in a way that other organizations 
may find difficult to prove. 
The United Religious Community. 
which is allowed to make three referrals 
to The Christ Child Society each week. is 
one of over 79 other local agencies 
utilizing the unique services Christ Child 
provides. 
Although the program responds as 
faithfully as possible. said Bauer. need 
continues to grow. 
Goetz made a similar statement about 
the United Religious Community. whose 
services include general crisis response, 
employment referrals. and resources for 
low income citizens. 
"It's never enough," she remarked. "Community needs are so great. it's impossible to meet them all." 
Students needed to help solve Saint Mary's murder mystery 
By LYNN BAUWENS 
Accent Writer 
A murder has been commit­ted on Saint Mary's campus that can only be solved with your help. 
This evening, the Funny Business Agency will present "The Legend of Saint Mary's College" at Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 
The performance by the tour­ing repertory theater relies upon complete audience partie­ipation to provide an evening full of intrigue, murder. sus­pense, and prizes. 
"The Legend of Saint Mary's College" revolves around an un­solved murder spree that was committed 25 years ago. 
Audience participation ensures that the show is differ­ent each time the professional actors perform. 
"The total interaction between the performers and students was incredible," said Clark Young, student activities director at William Penn College, about a recent perfor­mance of "Murder Mysteries on Campus." 
Based in Michigan. Funny Business Agency is one of the largest agencies in the country featuring comedy shows for col­leges, nightclubs and special events. bringing their perfor­mances to campuses through­out the country. 
Prizes will be a warded throughout the performance, including T -shirts. squirt guns and cash. 
"The first person to solve the mystery receives $50 in cash," according to Raquel Mitchell, SAB cultural chairperson and coordinator of this evening's event. · 
"Mysteries on Campus" is a direct result of the increased activity fee paid by the Saint Mary's students. according to Marlene Johnson, assistant director of Student Activities. 
The improved programming also includes the recent outdoor concert by Oliver Syndrome. Friday's crack-ups comedy cafes and the Screen Gems movies series. 
"We're able to underwrite the costs of bringing activities such as this to campus," Johnson said. 
"The Legend of Saint Mary's College" begins this evening at 7:30p.m. in Dalloway's. Tickets will be sold for $3 at the door. Seating is limited to approxi­mately the first 50 people. 
Monday, October 4, 1993

page 10 The Observer· SPORTS 
Invite 
continued from page 16 won. but we still have a lot more work to get done." said Hood. According to Connelly. the Irish are one step closer to their goal they estab­lished at the beginning of the season of getting in to the NCAA's. He feels if the team can get some people healthy and run the way they did on Friday. they should definitely be considered for an at­large bid. The team hopes to get juniors Emily Husted and Becky Alfieri back into the lineup in the near future. "We want to continue to work hard and try to get some people healthy who were banged up. If we can get those two in we'll have a great team." said Connelly. 

Braves win the West as Giants falter 
By TOM SALADINO County Stadium. the title finally came New York Yankees to win 103 games Associat~d Press when the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the and finish second. Giants 12-1 a continent away. Then. "It's nice to have a couple of nights to ATLANTA after an marathon stretch drive that relax and know where we're going for a 
After winning game No. 104. the baseball will never forget. the celebra­change," said Tom Glavine. who beat Braves waited and watched. And. final­tion finally began. the Rockies for his 22nd win of the sea­ly. on the last day of the best pennant "We showed character," said David son. race in years. the San Francisco Giants Justice. who hit his 40th homer. "They cracked. showed a lot of character, too. It's The two-time NL champions needed a 
The Braves won their third straight unfortunate one of us had to go home. remarkable comeback to win the race. NL West title Sunday -but it didn't I'm just happy it's them." The Braves. in a hitting slump through­happen until three hours after their 5-3 Atlanta and San Francisco began the out the first half of the season. trailed victory over the Colorado Rockies. day in a tie for first. only the second the Giants by 9 1/2 games on Aug. 8. 
With players watching on big-screen time since divisional play began in 1969 "It's defintely gratifying to do it tne television in the trainers' room. and that teams were even going into the way we did it. chasing them all year. about 8,000 fans watching on the score­final day. But the Braves made the catching them and then finishing it on board television in Atlanta Fulton-Giants the first team since the 1954 the last day," Sid Bream said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Classifieds Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds muSt be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
$$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK· NEED UP TO 6 USC GEN. ADM. MARRIED STD BKS 4SALE I need USC GAs Love kids? Would you like to help ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE TIX. PLEASE CALL KATHY COL­273-2331 AJ x1432-. NOTICES protect the environment? AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT LECT (301) 737·5520. 
Join a one-a-month "Kids for Saving 273-6588. HELPIII Need 10 tickets, yes 10 Typing Earth"Ciub sponsored by a local HELP! Need 4 Pitt Tix tickets. so my Florida family can see 287-4082 elementary school. Male counselors FSU TIX NEEDEDIIIIIIII I NEED PITT Preferablly married ND beat FSU. 
for 4-5th grade Earth Crusaders: CALL CRAIG @273-3942 AND BC GA's. Call 273-6033 Please call Kevin at 4-2265 TYPING Plus computer services ecology, bicycling, hiking and PLEASE!! CALL AMY X4952 Term papers, newsletters, etc. Free adventure course program. Call Bill pickup and delivery, (times will be evenings 272-4850 ND vs USC • Need tickets for WANTED FOUR TICKETS TO NO My little brother loves ND football I NEED TIXS FOR PITT, USC AND scheduled). $2.00 per page, $10.00 10/23 game.Chris Marks FSU. CALL COLLECT 619 and has never seen a game and will BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEYIII minimum. Call Linda Green, 674-NEEDED: Artist for commercial pro­800-523·3139. 942 5030. be here for FSU ... please call Mike if CALL AARON@ 271-2908 4160 ject. Newspaper ads, b/w drawings. you have tix. 271-1706 
Great resume experience! The Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any I need 2 pairs of PITT GA's WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. Works Bar & Grill 501 N Niles Ave combination. $Call Amy 2658 call Tim 237-1012$$$$$ CALL 259·8684. 237-9757 I need PITT GA's Please HELP! 
NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA 4-1103Greg SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS: RELIABLE AND HARD WORKING STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354-NEED 4-8 USC GA'S LONDON MAY 18-JUNE 19, INDIVIDUALS NEEDED TO MAKE 8826 AFTER 5 PM NEED 2 USC GA's FOR SALE.....FOR SALE'.... CLASSES IN EXTRA CASH SELLING UNIVER· CALL JOE @ X1613 Will trade 2 BC stud's or 2 MARRIED STUDENT BOOKS ART,BIO,BUEC,HIST,SOC-TRAV­SITY RELATED I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY 1 BC & 1 FSU stud. 1 STUDENT BOOK FOR ALL EL IRELAND,SCOT.ENG.FRANCE. T-SHIRTS. APPLY AT: MIKE x2292 Chi-Chi 1200 REMAINING GAMES ROME-JUNE 12-JULY 11 TRAVEL LINDA'S FLOWER MARKET I NEED PITT GA TIX ••••••••••••••••KEVIN 271-8641 IN FAA, SWITZ,GER,ITALY­1635 EDISON ROAD PITT AND USC GA s CLASSESIN 272-0902. WANTED FOR RICH CALL MIKE AT 277-8135 Two PITT Student tix lor sale. LIT,ITALIAN,HIST,SOC. MEETING ALUMNI $$$232-1348 Bestoffer. x3655 or x47681eave -NEED 2 USC GAs­OCT 11, 6:30 PM CARROLL Attention -ACDC Students. Part NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 name and offer. Help me PLEASE .... If you have tick­HALL(SMC). time baby sitter needed for 5 month NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 (MARK) ets, know someone who has tickets, 
old and 4 yr old. $5.50 per hr. Must or think you might POSSIBLY get have own transportation. Call Lea DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST $WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ NEED tickets somehow, somewhere, then 272-5029. WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 2 PITT GA'S CALL (614) 459-0074 We will purchase at handsome price please call Tara at 1149751111
ILOST & FOUND I 

PITT GA'S DONALD x1724. COLLECT AFTER 4 PM OR CALL four seats together for the Florida ?Jersey Bound for break? I need a SHEILA AT x4072 State game. Pis. call (800) 457­LOST: VARSITY JACKET AT 200 ride;help with gas/tolls 3042 NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME 0486. 
PERSONAL

HAGGAR ON 9/17. REWARD. GAME. MIKE @ 1724 Pitt Stu. Tckt. CALL 4-2915. MAGICIANS-willing to donate 1/2 Best Offer 
hour of time to entertain disadvan­Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284·5261 Manuel 4-0505 Lost: Copy Card. Left on the sec­taged children on 1 0/16 from 9·1 :30 The ERA encourages women to ond floor at noon on Sept. 30. Says call 4-2131 NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA Need Pitt GAs leave their husbands. kill their chil· "Fraser". Please return to library STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. $Need Pitt GAs$ Please call Dave 273-0821 dren, practice witchcraft, destroy Lost and Found. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO Angie 273-5805 capitalism. and become LESBIANS. 
FOR RENT 

GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479-glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556 LOST: J-Crew Bam Jacket (Olive 1429 green) btw. 9·22 & 9-27. Please Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront -NEED PITT GA'S & 1 ST TIX LIKE contact Mike @x1166 Private. NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­
257-9101 Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201-JIM 232-3807 HELP Mother Theresa needs 2 agement and security to the pre­217-0030 (W) 201-992-8700 USC tix. Will trade 2 BC tlx. cious life your are carrying; a full­
WANTED 

LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN. FOR SALE: REMAINING STUDITIX x4340 time mom and loving dad; married 
SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO Need 1 USC G.A.I BOOKLET. BEST OFFER CALL 12 years; promises that your child FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM· Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s 234-6037 will have every opportunity. Please EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING PUS $225. M0.272·6306 Call Karen at 4·4987. TRADE 2 PITT. GA'S & 2 BC TIX call Phil and Maureen at (800)545· BREAK TRIPSI SELL ONLY 8 NEED 8, YES 8, PITT GAS, MIKE FOR 2 RUDY PREMIER TIKS. 8195. TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & NEED 2 FSU GA's AT271-8641 CALL 288-3028 AFTER 6 PM. PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING FOR DAD'S BUSINESS FRIENDS Sophomores !II JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800· OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­FROM FLORIDA WITH LOTS OF Will trade USC student ticket for a 678-63861 DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235. GREEN II $$$ IS NO OBJECT! I NEED stud tix to USC & PITT Pill student ticket. Please call Mike 
EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE, CALL DOUG X1067 por favor bitte se vous please at 273-2059. ND/SMC RTL CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -BUS. 232-8444. call Josh 234-2853 Tonight Earn up to $2000+/month + world CA Alum paying top $ for FLA 7:30-8:30 travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the STATE GA's Pis call (916)558·6566 1 07 LaFortune Caribbean. etc.). Summer and NEED 2 BYU TIXI HELP! I need Pitt GA's-Steve 1217 
FOR SALE

Career employment available. No PLS CALL (801)484-7108 3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420· experience necessary. For more I DESPERATELY need 2 Pitt GA's 9309 Consider a life of patient love from Information call 1·206-634-Q468 BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS Need 2 GAs for any home game Please call Josh at x3578. Will pay Mom, financial security from Dad, ext.C5584 CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 Call Tim at 273-1757 .top dollar. laughter and music in a country 
home for your baby. Please call ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • fisheries. 8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE NEED FSU TIX. Call collect215· MUST SELL 4 FLORIDA ST. TIX. Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226·5172 Earn up to $2Q00-$4000 or more Orange County to Chicago 10/21 Wanted: One Gen Ad tix for Pitt 539-8421 or 215·362-1843 after BEST OFFER. FAX (808)244-0156 any1ime. per month on fishing vessels or In Chicago to Orange County 1 0/24 and SIX for BCIIIII Call Colleen 5pm canneries. Many companies provide Only $333/each round trip x2785 soon! Will pay$$$$$$$$ transportation and room & board. Michelle Coleman B00-854-4643 NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers. No experience necessary. Male or x1515 all hours • MUST HAVEl! CALL 272-7233. Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta Larimore-I hope you had a good Female. For more information I have 2 BC GAs and 1 BC stud. I (404)396-8715. time at the dance this week-end! call:1-206-545·4155 ext. A5584 Spring Break! Plan Early • Save need 2 FSU tix (GAs or studs). Call Thanks for going with me and for 
$30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Theresa before 10pm at x4312. FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES. 4 SALE· FSU STUD TIC. BEST the beautiful roses last week! Love FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 277-1659. OFFER Katie X4067 You, Tara Individuals and Student days includes12 meals $2791 Organizeations wanted to promote Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291 PLEASE HELP! !II NEED 1 GA OR NEED I PITT GA X3533 the Hottest Spring Break Cancun from Chicago $439, STU. TICKET FOR PITT. CALL I NEED 1 BC GA FOR MY MOM KO Destinations, call the nation's Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key KELLY @ 4-4270 NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC & WHO'S COMING FROM WASH. II leader. Inter-Campus Programs West $239, Day1ona Room w/ FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232·5297. BETH-x3620 -Biaisse, Blaisse, my man. 1-800-327-6013 Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386 NEED PITT STD. X4022 Let's do lunch someday. 
I'll use my Fantastic Plastic. HELP! DEPENDABLE 1986 PLYMOUTH AHOY MATIESII NEED 2 PITT PITT,USC,FSU,BC STUD TIX FOR NEED 2 FEMALE STUD. TIX FOR I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE! DUSTER CALL HOLLY 271-8940 AND 1 USC (STU OR GA) FOR SALE X.2795 LVE MESS. AND PITT. JAY X1534 If you need a roommate, OLD SHIPMATES COMING TO BEST OFFER ca11Jay-x1714 2 PITT GA'S 4 SALE b\o 3042 TOWN. BOB X4529 Top 10 Quotes from Brooktucky 
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$ SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS NEED 1 (MALE) STUDENT TIX 1. Don't kid yourself BRUNO'S NEEDS Drivers!!II SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A I NEED ONE BC TIX & MANY NEED PITT TIX (MY NEPHEW'S A H.S. SEN & 2. Never should have been said PT for Campus Deliveries. CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND PITT TIX-STUDENT OR GA STUORGA LOVES ND) FOR PITT. AMY 4252 3. That which does not kill you only Call John 288-3220 VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE 271-7047 AILEEN X4290 makes you stronger. 
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$ NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT 4. How do the horses feel about the MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT MBA STUDENT SEEKS 2 TICK· Have 2 GA's for FSU and BC dog being in the barn? 284-5062 ETS FOR FAMILY TO USC GAME. games. Leave best offer at4-3419. PLEASE HELP! I NEED 1 GA OR 5. Free Willy 
$700/wk cannery workers; PLEASE CALL RICH X-4-4499 STUDENT TICKET FOR USC. 6. Elvis is definitely dead. $4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish· Need 1 BC stud. tick!. CALL KELLY @4270 7. Just Drive. The dog will move.
TICKETS

ing Industry now hiring for next sum­Need FSU Stu. & Ga's Eric x1087 Heidi 273-2661 $$$$ 8. My house was a cornfield back. mer. 11,000 openings. No exp. nec­Just do a K turn. essary. Free rm. & bd. These jobs I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL I NEED GA'S FOR PITT, USC & BC Help! Need 3 Pill GAs SELLING-FSU GA's 9. Air Rus go fast! Employment Alaska. 1-206· TIXS.272·6306 NICK X1777 Katie 273-6324 $$$$ Call Dan @273-0986 10. Vee Haw Rob Miller 323·2672 
~~~ -----·----~--~---­
Monday, October 4, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Men's cross-country wins invite 

By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team posted an impor­tant victory Friday afternoon at the Notre Dame Invitational. finishing with a total of 76 points. 
The nearest competition for the Irish came from West VIrginia, who finished 1 0 points behind Notre Dame. Penn State (1 08). North Central College, 
(120) and Edinboro University 
(181) rounded out the top five finishers. 
Notre Dame, while victorious. was unable to follow their game plan to the end. The Irish pride themselves on running as a group, and strive to stick to­gether as a group from begin­ning to end. Friday's meet saw no such finish, as the Irish run­ners were scattered throughout the finishing order. 
The Irish runners finished second. sixth. 12th. 24th, 32nd. and 107th. While not exactly a tight grouping, the runners were spaced just far enough apart to claim the victory. 
Leading the way for the Irish was senior captain Mike McWilliams. who finished sec­ond with a time of 24:21.9. The consistently stellar McWilliams finished second for the second­straight week. Junior Nate Ruder. who finished first over­all at the previous meet. fin­ished sixth with a time of 24:40.3. 
Sophomore Derek Seiling fin­ished 12th with a time of 24:4 7. sophomore Joe Dunlop finished 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde Senior All-American Mike McWilliams finished second in this weekend's Notre Dame Invitational, won by the Irish. 
24th with a time of 25:13.1. junior John Cowan finished 32nd at 25:21.8, and J.R. Meloro finished 1 07th. 
The Irish were hurt by the loss of freshman Matt Althoff. who fainted during the last 300 meters of the race. Althoff was running very well. and would probably have finished the race fifth for the Irish. ahead of eventual fifth -place finisher John Cowan. who finished 32nd overall. Thankfully. Althoff was not seriously injured, and will be running again this week in practice. 
One of the reasons that the Irish team was not able to stay as a tight group after the first few miles is that the competi­tion level was much higher than the previous few weeks. Due to this fact, the runners were forced to compete at their own individual level. 
"The concentration of this race was so much steeper that everyone had to race at their own level,'' said Ruder. 
"They ran well. not great," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. "In terms of things to come. we are right on track for reaching the NCAA's." 
The next test for the Irish will come on October 17. when the team travels to Michigan to compete against thirteen other teams in the Michigan Invitational. Until then, the Irish will be working hard dur­ing practice to prepare for this important race. 
"We will be focusing mostly on workouts this week," said Ruder. 
A'ITENDOl\T SAINT MARrS STIJDENIS: 
$$$8 . EARl\T EXTRA MONEY% S5SS , 

We "rill train and pay you to call alumnae, parents and friends ofSaint Mary's College to ask them to support the Annual Fund. 
It's easy; it's fun and, you'llleam valuable marketing skills. 

CAlLING: 
$4.75 per hour (for training &. ealling) 
Call today... Training starts Wednesday! 
For more details or to sign up Call Kenlyn at 281J-4580 or stop by SMC Division ofCollege Relations 110 Le Mans Hall 

Montana injured, Rocket back 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY 

Three starts into his new ca­reer in Kansas City. Joe Montana is 3-0 in games won and 1-2 in games finished. 
The Chiefs (3-1) have won every game Montana has played, including a 24-9 victory Sunday over the mistake-prone Los Angeles Raiders. who also were without their No. 1 quar­terback. 
But only once has Montana stayed injury free. He was side­lined again Sunday after injur­ing his left hamstring on Aaron Wallace's late hit. 
Montana was sharp, hitting 7 of 9 passes for 68 yards and two touchdowns. when Wallace hit him from behind out of hounds near the Chiefs' side­
line in the second quarter. Montana said Wallace did not fall on his leg. 
"They said it happened when I got pulled back (by the de­fender) but I don't remember:· Montana said. "They say it happened when he grabbed me but I don't remember. All I know is right before I got to the sideline, just as I was going out of bounds, I felt it go. I was go­ing to keep running so I didn't get hit. It was a little pop. It just got stiff." 
The orily bright spot for the Raiders (2-2) was the debut of Rocket Ismail. The former Notre Dame star caught a 43­yard scoring pass from Vince Evans in the fourth quarter. 
After Wallace's hit. the Raiders drew a 15-yard un­sportsmanlike conduct penalty. 
Patricia Lurel Cook 
Saint Mary's College Class of 1975 Managing Director Fischer, Francis, Trees &Watts, Inc. New York, N.Y. 
S H A N N 0 N 
EXECUTIVE 
S C H 0 L A R 
P R 0 G R A M 
THE INAUGURAL PRESENTATION: 
Experiences of a Wall Street Woman 
Tuesday, October 5, 8 p.m. Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College Admission Free, Open to the Public 
·.· .,ul "r "' 1<..,•Jil· 
~ 
.''-"'f.;·;~.'
······ .. I "' 
..··...~ 
SAINT 
MMYS 
I II! I I 1, I 
-: e ' I, 

-
w 
-~----~--­
Irish tennis stars impress in individual tournaments 
Simme takes Princeton crown 
Special 10 the Observer 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
Notre Dame freshman Ryan Simme defeated teammate Tommy Ndrth 6-4, 4-3, ret. to win the cham­pionship flight of the Princeton Invitational on Sunday. 
Simme won all five of his matches in the event in straight sets, Tad Eckert breezing to the singles crown. 
Simme defeated Art Freeman of Colwnbia in the first round (6-2, 6-3) and then went on to top Tom Marrecaus (6-4, 6-2), Gog Boonswang (6-0, 6-1) and Brook Hazelton (6-3. 6-0). all of Princeton, before reaching the finals against North. 

Simme is the top-ranked freshman in the country ac­cording to the Intercollegiate Tennis Association. and is ranked No. 38 overall. 
At the University of Colorado this weekend. Notre Dame sophomore Tad Eckert won the B Flight singles with a 4-6. 6-4. 6-3 win over teammate Horst ()ziura in the finals. 
Sophomore Mike Sprouse lost in the finals of the A flight sin­gles to Rolf Andersch of Colorado 4-6, 6-4, 6-1. Notre Dame's Andy Chmura won the D flight singles of the event with a 6-0. 6-2 win over Richard Cooley of New Mexico in the finals. 
· Saint Mary's volleyball beats N. Central, Carroll 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sporu Writer 
. The Saint Mary's volleyball team's home court advantage came through for them this weekend, as they conquered North Central College and Carroll Coffiege. 
defeatedThe Belles •..· · ..· N o r t h Central 15­12. 15-12. 11-15. 15-9 and Carroll ts-13. 15-3. i:?"" 11i 
14 16 4 15
-· · · Mary Wheeler
15-10. 
S a i n t Mary's now has a 12-6 record after their impressive hold on these two teams in Saturday's Triangular match. This is the first time coach Julie Schroeder-Biek's team has beaten North Central. 
·we didn't play up to poten­tial. since we (were) saving it for our next match (against Carroll).M said Schroeder-Biek. "But we played as a real unit." 
The coach also commented on how the team's passing wasn't up to par against their first opponent. However, she did compliment senior setter 
Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on salt. 

ftAmerican HeartV Association IM:T?E: HGt111NG I'm 

-
'O.J?Uft 

Michelle Martino on mustering enough offensive power from what she had. 
Senior tri-captain Kim Branstetter stated that the Belles offense played aggres· sively. 
"Everyone swung away and was real smart." said Branstetter. "On defense we covered everything. We had a lot more digs than usual and they were hitting at us really hard." 
Carroll turned out to be the tougher of the two opponents. They beat Saint Mary's earlier this season in their opening tournament at Kalamazoo. 
"They are very tough defen· sively and offensively." said Schroeder·Biek. 
Senior Andrea Salazaar had an excellent showing against Carroll with seven service aces in a single game. 
Other players who racked up impressive statistics were: Martino with 92 assists. junior Ertca Freitag had 24 digs and 26 kills, tri-captain sophomore had 9 blocks. senior Mary Wheeler had 8 blocks and Branstetter had 50 digs. 22 kills and 17 points. 
The Belles go up against DePauw University at home on Tuesday at 7:00pm. 

Lord, Crabtree make statements with wins 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Holyn Lord defeated freshman teammate Erin Gowen by a 6-4. 6-2 score to win the finals of the No. 1 singles flight as the Eck Tennis Classic concluded on Sunday. 
In the No. 2 flight championship, Jen Fales of Western Michigan defeated Terri Vitale of Notre Dame, 6-3. 7-6. 
The Notre Dame duo of Lord and Sherri Vitale won the doubles crown with a 6-2. 7· 6 victory over teammates Christy Faustmann and Gowen. Laura Schwab and Terri Vitale took fifth place in the doubles. 
Also this weekend. Notre Dame sopho­more Wendy Crabtree advanced to the round of 16 at the National Clay Court Championship in Jackson. Miss. 
Crabtree, who beat Valerie Spring of Mississippi in the first round, lost in the second round to the No. 2 player in the The Observerfr.J. Harris 
country. Kelly Pace of Texas 4-6, 6-1. 7-6 Senior Christy Faustmann advanced to the doubles (7-3). championship at the Eck Tennis Classic this weekend. 
Saint Mary's soccer crushes DePauw 
By MARY GOOD the team's record to 5-4. Sports Writer Saint Mary's and DePauw have played similarly against 
The Saint Mary's soccer team other teams all season, which scored a 5-0 victory over makes the Belles· win that DePauw this Saturday, to up much bigger. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
The Saint Mary's soccer team trounced DePauw 5-0 this weekend. 
"It was an extremely tight match-up going in to the game." said coach Tom Van Meter. who was pleased with the team's execution on Saturday and hopes it will con­tinue to improve as the season progresses. 
Senior co-captain Megan Dalsaso. and Tina Raczynski each scored two goals. while Brigid Keyes also scored for the Belles. 
"Everyone played well as a team," said Tina Brockman. "The offense and defense worked together and never let down." 
According to senior Mandy Eiler. the great weather and presence of many parents visit­ing for Senior Dad's Weekend added to the spirit of the game. "It was an all-around great ef­fort," added Eiler. 
Van Meter noted that Saturday was also a success be­cause everyone got an opportu­nity to participate. However. Van Meter is especially con­cerned with a knee injury sus­tained by senior Patty Hand. 
Although the team is excited about Saturday's victory. they are focusing on Thursday's game against Calvin. as Calvin is a game the team cannot af­ford to look past. However. Van Meter is optimistic. 
"We still have the future in our own hands," said Van Meter. 


Conversations 
.. BRINGING FACULTY &STUDENTS TOGETHER .. 
DR. JERRY*MARLEY, Dean ofEngineering, 
will.be. ·s~~g a9R\Ul~!~~s i~ engineeringbothin how iii relatesto the University and to tile students \Vpo at;¢ majoring in the field and 
.planning careers in it. 
. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6 --ALUMNI HALL 


,...-------·---·----­
Monday, October 4, 1993 The Observer • MEN'S SOCCER page 13 
·-~-----~------~~ ·~----~--------------~--· 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Senior Mike Palmer beats a Penn State defender to the ball in the Irish's 1-0 loss on Saturday night. 
IJniVPI";ily uf f4ullt' IJ.UIIt' 
lnlc~l"ll..tl iunal ~it urly Pr U~Jr·am 
al 


NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
SOPHOMORES WHO NEED DETAILS ON AUSTRALIA PROGRAM FOR 1994-95 
---~ 
~-­

r INFORMATION_MEETI~G­
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5,1993 204 O'SHAUGHNESSY 4:30 Pi\1 

11;.11\f o?l.tq•t.t;,'' \/UjjtJl IU "tt:IUI!:Ji:e~ IU 
Soplromun•s ill Colleges o( :\rts a11d /.etters \nd flu.\illC.\S .\dlllilli\lration . \rc \\'efco/11£' 1 

By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The mangled turf of Alumni Field was a good symbol of the four hard-played matches this weekend. as four of the nation's finest men's soccer programs squared off during the Notre Dame Classic. 
Though No. 3 Indiana. No. 12 Penn State. and No. 14 South Carolina were all considered to be favorites of the tourna­ment. it was the unranked Irish that entered the final game with a chance to take home the tour­

Tim Oates 
nament champi­
onship. 
Notre Dame entered Saturday night's game against Penn State coming off an impressive 2-0 victory over the Gamecocks. The Irish were able to withstand an onslaught of offensive pressure in the sec­ond half to preserve the shutout. 
"Our defense had a great game," said junior Tim Oates. who recorded both goals in the contest. "It's a real big win for us." 
The Irish jumped out to the 
lead only 1:5 7 into the game 
when Oates knocked in a loose 
ball from in front of the net off 
a Mike Palmer corner kick. 
The goal gave Notre Dame a 1­
0 advantage. 
Notre Dame took this lead 
well into the second half 
despite constant pressure by 
South Carolina. who finished 
the contest with 18 shots on 
goal compared to only 12 for 
the Irish. Strong defensive 
plays were turned in by fresh-
Men's soccer upsets South Carolina 
man Peter Gai].Sler. who used his height to win the battles for air balls. and junior Chris Dean. who effectively shut down Gamecock scorer Chris Faklaris. Goalie Bert Bader had nine saves in his second full shutout of the season. 
The final goal of the game came with :23 to play in the contest, when Oates scored off a penalty shot to give the Irish a 2-0 victory. 
"It's naturally a confidence booster." said Notre Dame head . coach Mike Berticelli. "We're getting better every week." 
Notre Dame's title hopes were snapped. however. when they lost to the Nittany lions t­O Saturday night. The Hoosiers were awarded the tournament victory after posting a 1-0-1 record, while the Irish took third place behind Penn State. The Gamecocks finished the tournament with a disappoint­ing fourth place showing. 
The lone score of the Irish­Nittany Lion contest came at the 77:02 mark. when Penn State senior Bill Bucy was able to thread a shot through sever­al defenders and past the hands of goalie Bert Bader to make the score 1-0. The goal came off of a corner kick. a category in which the Nittany lions held an eight to four advantage. 
Penn State was able to use their height and speed to keep constant pressure on the Irish, as indicated by their 15 shots on goal. compared to five for Notre Dame. Bader and David Smith held their own in goal. however. combining to notch ten saves on the evening. 
The Irish had the inside track 
to the title thanks to the early 
game Saturday night. as 
Indiana and South Carolina fin­
ished in a 1-1 double overtime 
deadlock. Though the Hoosiers 
were able to keep the ball in 
the Gamecock end with strong 
midfield play. South Carolina 
would not bend, as goalkeeper 
John Mills tallied ten saves. in­
cluding five in the two overtime 
periods. 
Indiana held a 27 to seven 
advantage in shots. but it was 
the Gamecocks that got on the 
board first. At the 7 4:19 mark 
in the second haH. senior Bret 
Kurland scored off a Sigmar 
Scheving cross pass to make 
the score 1-0. The Hoosiers 
answered almost immediately, 
however. when forward Harry 
Weiss booted in a Steve Keller direct kick to even the score at 1-1. 
Indiana had entered Saturday's contest with a 1-0 tournament record after defeating Penn State 4-1 in Game One Friday night. 
The Hoosiers took an early lead with 14:03 to play in the first half. when Nittany Lion goalie Mike Barninger's goal kick was deflected off a de­fender to Wane Lobring. who scored to give Indiana a 1-0 lead. 
The Hoosiers added another goal only 6:07 into the second half. when junior Brandon Ward booted a Craig Ginsberg cross pass past Barninger from inside the goal box to make the score 2-0. 
Penn State answered late in the game. when Chris Kelly headed in a Neil Piper cross pass at the 81:27 mark to cut the lead to 2-1. 
But Indiana quickly turned the momentum back in their favor when Harry Weiss scored from the left side with 6:25 to play in the game to give the Hoosiers a 3-1 advantage. Junior Jeff Bannister was cred­ited the assist on the play. An insurance goal was added less than a minute later. when Brian Maisonneuve rocketed a shot through heavy traffic to make the score 4-1. 
"Penn State works hard to the 
ball. I thought we withstood 
their pressure and intimidation 
quite well." said Hoosier head 
coach Jerry Yeagley. 
Indiana improved their 
record to 8-1-1 on the season. 
while the Nittany Lions im­
proved to 7-2. South Carolina 
dropped to 6-3-1 on the season 
following a 0-1-1 tournament 
record. 
Penn State's Chris Kelly was 
awarded the tournament of­
fensive MVP award. while 
Indiana's Brandon Ward was 
recognized as the defensive 
MVP. 
Other selections to the All 
Tournament Team included 
Scott Coufal. Mike Clark. and 
Harry Weiss of Indiana. 
Michael Coli and Joe Carapi of 
Penn State. and Heigi 
Bjorgvinsson of South Carolina. 
Chris Dean and Tim Oates were 
Notre Dame's representatives 
on the All-Tournament Team. 
The next contest for the Irish 
will be next Friday. when they 
travel to Cincinnati for a con­
ference match against Xavier. 
If unu arP. unsure of what career path to follow-this is the place for wou. learn about careers spanning lhe four business curricula: marketin~.managemenl. accountiny and finance.  4October 1993 9:00 to S:OO Center for Continuing Education  

ST.IDIARD'S 
H A L L F 0 R U M 
PROF. LAWRENCE CUNNINGHAM CHAIRMAN, DEPT. OF THEOLOGY 
speaks on 
"THE AMERICAN CATHOLIC CHURCH AND THE VATICAN" 
Wednesday, October 6 7:00p.m. at St. Edwards Hall 
-
--~--~--~--------­

A horseback riding day is planned for Sunday. October 10. A bus will depart every hour from 10:30 until 12:30. The fee is $12 per person which includes transportation. Those interested should regis· ter in advance in the RecSports office by 5:00 pm on Thursday. October 7. The maximum umber per ride is 10. For more information, call RecSports at 631-6100. women's lacrosse team will meet for practice in front of Cushing this Tuesday, Oct. 3 at 4:00 pm. If you have any questions. call Emily Hage at 4-2856 or Michelle McQuinlan t 4-2894. Attention skllers: There will e a meeting at 8:00 pm on Thursday, Oct. 7 in Rm 127 Nieuwland Science Hall for all those interested in the Christmas Ski trip to Breckenridge, CO or in signing for the Ski Team tryouts.  
OCTOBER IS CUSTOMER APPRECIATION MONTH THANK YOU SPECIALS  
2C~COPIES~ Limtt 500 per customer. 8.5" x 11" White Bond. 49C  

FAX 
Sending & 
Recetving, domestic transmtssions only, per page. 

Ground. 2-Day or Overmght & All Other UPS Servtces. ?qr cusromer. ~er Jay. 
~-MAIL BOXES ETC. ~ :81155.R 23 
•.MARTIN'S PLAZA> SOLIH BE:'IO. IN -16637 PHONE<219l 277-6245 
OPE'-/· 9A.'vf-7P'1.1 ).101"-FR! !OAM-6P).15AT 

The Observer • VOLLEYBALL Monday, October 4, 1993 
14th-ranked volleyball posts two wins 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
The No. 14 Notre Dame vol­leyball team got a taste of the pres­sure of being the team to beat this weekend. as it endured a difficult match against Ball State before finally dismissing the Cardinals 10­15. 14·16. 15-8, 15-7. 15-13. 
The Irish also posted a 15-6, 15­1. 12-15. 15-3 victory over Western Michigan to improve to 13-3 on the year. 
Playing an inspired and ex­perienced Ball State squad. the Irish were in a position they had faced only once before. needing to win three games in a row after having dropped the first two. This time. Notre Dame prevailed. rely­ing on its talent to return to the fundamentals that have led them to national prominence. 
"We anticipated that Ball State would be a good team. but we didn't think they would be that good," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "They deserve a lot of credit, they played very well." 
The Cardinals came out with a strong service game that pressured the Irish into losing the first two games. as their active defense gave Notre Dame problems. 
However. it was just a matter of time before Notre Dame regained its composure and turned the match around. "Ball State was playing above what they were capable of." noted Brown. "And we didn't think they could continue the pace." 
Notre Dame began its rally in the third game. relying as it has so often lately on the play of senior middle-blocker Molly Stark. "Molly was definitely a factor. as we relied on her and Jenny Birkner to carry the offense," explained Brown. 
Stark's net play served as a cata­lyst to the rest of the squad. as her blocking and quickset kills changed the tempo in favor of the Irish. Birkner also proved a spark. as her error-free play made her a favored option in the attack. 
Stark continued her impressive performance as the Irish travelled to Western Michigan on Saturday. blocking a career high 15 total balls to go along with her team high 1 7 kills. 
In a match that saw almost every Irish player see action. the Notre Dame starters dominated play. limiting the Broncos to only 10 points when they were on the floor. 
The Irish also saw the continued improvement of some of its younger talent. especially in fresh­man outside hitter Kristina Ervin. who is steadily making her bid to enter the starting rotation. 
Ervin. whose playing time and hitting opportunities have increased steadily in the past few weeks. had the best night of her young college career. hitting .727 with eight kills and no errors in 11 attempts. She also had a solid defensive effort. including seven digs and two blocks. 
"Kristina played very well. prob­ably having her best match since she's been here," stated Brown. "Again. it's valuable experience for her. and should help the team down the road." 
Next up for the Irish will be Illinois State. which travels to the 
J.A.C.C. for a 7:30 game Tuesday night. 

With Visa® you'll be accepted at more than I 0 million places, nearly three times more than American Express. And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 
L----------------------------------------<l:lVisaU.SAinc.1993 

1·Ut you::: printer -:l.S •
still 
I 
•l 
-·-.. 
.­
1 
..

• 


Monday, October 4, 1993 The Observer· TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-

Friday Oct. 8 South Dining Hall 
Thursday Oct. 7 8pm and 10:30 pm 
9pm until2 am 

Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Center 
"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" 
STIJDENT UNION BOARD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I LGYE f.\'\ '3(\\00L &:X:>K'3. J\JSI 1\-\I~K! PREIT'{ SOON ~HL 1-\/l.-\/E 
REt>..D ALL or T\-\\S! 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 


ACROSS 31 Soak flax or 55 Board-game hemp pieces
1 M1nute dispute 
32 Surround firmly 58 Rough and 

s"... pile -on 
noisy
34 Ray

Pelion" Virgil 
60 Had on
35 Lamb's

9 Carry 
pseudonym 61 Once, once 13 British subway 
62 Rambles 14 Ta-ta. to Tomas 63 Italian noble 
37 L1ke certain 

seals 15 Bribe money family
39 Medieval gold 16 Sign and silk 
64 Colleen 

brocade 65 Makes a lap cooperation 40 River to the 66 Oboe necessity 19 Termite 
17 Secret 
Rhone terminator 42 Hinder 
DOWN 

21 Charge w1th gas 44 Torrid 22 Medieval 45 Where rabbis 1 Portico for Plato crucifixes preside 2 Cougar 23 TV-news 47 Neckwear for 3 Deviation network milady 4 Bone-to-muscle 24 Dazed 49 Path of trav. connector condition so Pal s Aromas 26 By chance 51 Short sock 
6 .._ __ the Bismarck!": 1960 film 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE. 
7 One of the Trinity a More than half the world's population 24 Long lock 9 Anagram for 25 Type of race 
star 26 Roman 10 A Chaplin goddess of 11 Diplomat's agriculture 
asset 27 Alias letters 12 Rapier's cousin 28 Tearful 14 College 29 Rank above 
environment maj. 18 The evening star 30 Nobelist in 20 Viva--(by Literature: 1923 word of mouth) 33 Boy Scout's 23 West Point merit-­student 36 Alicia of TV 
TltE EJlC ITiN 6) NEWS 15111AT )'G"STERDA'/ 1 CHf(KED MY SPt.LLINlil OF 1\-IE WORD 
l-lt:MoRRI-\01 D. At-JD YrJJ KNOW 
ID.,.f~ 
DAVE KELLEIT 

• 
38 Sadden 52 Asta's mistress 41 White heron 53 SWAK. word 43 Classic autos 54 Mil. landing 46 Aquatic vessels 
mammals 55 Chesterfield, 



BILL WATTERSON 
\~ '(()lj tl\t' 
TilE Pf\GES Of MY BooK.. 
(\I{ f>..t-\lti\1\TI:.\) T RE')( DR\IJIOS 1\it: Bf>..IMD\5\\..E. A.~\) HI'LOD£.5! 

SOMHIMES 
I 1\ilt-IK 
1300K5 ARE 
T\-\E ONL'( 
FRIENDS 
WORT\-\ 
1-\t>..'IJ\t-\G. 
I L\K.t. ~~ RE/>...D A.I-\~D A\\\D S't£ W\-1/l.-T 'NE'RE GO\~G \C:l lE~Rt-1. 1'\'CH. 1'\'S SO El(C::\1\I'-IG 1t:J 
K~<JW 51\Jt"\=.. 
\ 


WHAT 7 I HAD SPEUEV IT CORRECTLY. 
1-\P..\1\t-\G to.. \300K \'S LIK't: \-\~\1\\\\G />... GOOD FR\t.N.O '+l\11-\ '(O\J. 

-~ ----­
------------------------------------------~ ~~-­
-
Notre Dame throttles the Cardinal 
Irish get revenge with 48-20 win 



SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, October 4, 1993 
Stanford hands Irish women's soccer its first loss 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
All good things must come to end. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team lost its first game of the season Friday night. snapping its 14-game winning streak and falling to its first ranked opponent since late last season. 
The 10-1 Irish fell to the ninth -ranked Stanford Cardinal 3-1 in overtime. before re­bounding on Sunday for a 4-0 victory over St. Mary's College of California. 
Sophomore Michelle McCarthy gave Notre Dame a 

' 1-0 lead twenty minutes into the first half against the Cardinal when she drilled home a 30-yard pass from fellow midfielder Ragen Coyne. The lead stood until Stanford's Sarah Rafanelli tied it up with just under thirty min­utes left in the game. Tied at the end of regulation. the team's began two halves of overtime where the Cardinal netted two goals to wrap up the win. The game marked the first time that the Irish have ever lost a game in which Coyne scored at least one point. They were 16-0-1 over that span. Stanford. now owning an 8-1 record. outshot Notre Dame 23­
13. Freshman goalkeeper Jen Renola made eight saves for the Irish. 
The squad responded to the loss by rolling over the Gaels yesterday in its final match of the Cardinal Classic Soccer Invitational. 

Coyne led the Irish again by scoring the first and final goals of the contest. They were the sophomore's first two goals of the season. 
Her first goal came with only 
2:57 expired in the game. and her second came at the 68:06 mark in the second half. Both scores were assisted by fresh­man midfielder Cindy Daws. Sophomore backfielder Ashley Scharf garnered an assist on the last goal. 
Junior midfielder Jodi Hartwig then netted her sixth of the season 9:16 into the first half with McCarthy assisting to give Notre Dame a 2-0 advan­tage. 
Freshman attacker Stacia Masters put the game out of reach with 7:45 remaining in the first half. Her third goal of the season was assisted by Irish tri-captain Alison Lester. 
Renola made three saves as the Irish outshot the Gaels 20­9. 
"We still have a ways to go .. said Coyne, who leads the Irish with seventeen assists ...After Friday's game we know we have to come prepared to play each and every game." 
Lester's assist brought her career point total to 107. She needs six more points to sur­pass 1991 graduate Susie Zilvitis. who has 112 points. on Notre Dame's all-time leader chart. She has already taken the lead on the assist chart. 

Women's cross-country captures ND invite 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
Sports W rirer 

.. The Notre Dame women's cross country team showed they can compete with the nation's top teams by capturing the title at their own Notre Dame Invitational on Friday. squeaking past 11th­ranked Alabama by two points. 
In a field composed of twenty teams. three ranked amongst the top twenty in the nation, the Irish
-displayed their true potential. Five finishers for the Irish broke their personal records in the meet. "It's definitely the best team per­formance we've had," said junior Kristi Kramer. "Everyone ran towards their personal best." Junior Sarah Riley Jed the Irish with a strong performance. finish­ing fourth overall with a time 
17.47. Freshman Emily Hood and Kramer rounded out the second and third spots by placing fifth and ninth. respectively. in the in vi­tational. 
Alabama had runners finish at the top two spots overall but with the depth of the Irish. Notre Dame was still able to secure the 66-64 victory. 

"It's really rare for a team to beat a team that has runners fin­ish first and second. But. that just shows how good our five have to be," said Kramer. 
"I was real pleased to see the girls respond to the challenge." said coach Tim Connelly. "Hopefully it will give them the confidence that they can go out and run with these teams." 
While Alabama finished two points behind the Irish. Baylor and Auburn finished third and fourth. respectively. 
Defeating some top teams has brought a lot of confidence to the team. "I was really surprised (about the victory)," said Hood. "Going in we knew we were up against some ranked teams and we weren't ranked. We knew we'd have to run very well." 
The team's next big meet is October 17 at Michigan. For the next couple weeks the team plans to work hard and stay focused. "Michigan is going to be a compet­itive meet. We're happy that we 
see INVITE I page I 0 
Inside SPORTS 

Volleyball rolls on Molly Stark and the 

~~ 

14th -ranked Notre Dame volleyball team win two more games ~ over the weekend. 
see page 14 

Men's soccer Chris Dean leads the Irish defense in a 2-0 upset of South Carolina in the Notre Dame Classic. see page 13 




