
Thursday, October 21, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 39 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Vanier to receive the third NO humanitarian award 
Special to The Observer 
Jean Vanier, founder of the International L'Arche Commu­nities for the mentally handi­capped, has been selected by the University of Notre Dame as the recipient of its third Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service, accord­ing to University president, Fa­ther Edward Malloy. 
The award, given previously to Mother Theresa of Calcutta and former President Jimmy Carter and his wife. Rosalynn, was established in celebration of the University's Sesquicen­tenfial to honor persons "with­in nd without the Catholic Ch rch, citizens of every nation, whose religious faith has quickened learning, whose learning has engendered deeds, and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." 
"Jean Vanier's witness and the international family to which that witness has given rise are vivid evidence that the kingdom of God is already un­der way," said Malloy. "He has made an invaluable sugges­tion-that mentally handi­capped people, and we less ob­viously handicapped, might save each other." 
In August 1964, Vanier in­vited two mentally handicapped men to live with him in a small house he had purchased in Trosly-Brueil, about 15 miles north of Paris. Their home be­came the first L'Arche Com­munity. 
"Obviously Raphael and Phillipe (his housemates) need­ed me," Vanier said later, "and very quickly I saw that I needed them. They called forth some­thing inside of me that my stu­dents had not. In the Navy, I had been taught to be very ef­ficient. In the realm of philoso­phy; I had been taught to be understanding and to be intel­ligent. But Raphael and Phillipe were teaching me something else. About personal relation­ships, about mutual trust, about love. Very quickly, I found that I was changing under their guidance." 
Since those days, Vanier, who still lives in Trosly-Brueil, has written more than twenty books, conducted numerous retreats and conferences, and lectured to a variety of interna­tional audiences on community with mentally handicapped people. L'Arche (French for "the Ark," a biblical symbol of deliverance and refuge) Com­munities have now been estab­lished in more than 16 nations including the United States, Canada, Belgium, Denmark, Norway, Scotland, Ireland, In­dia, Haiti, Honduras, Upper Volta and Ivory Coast. 
The communities, rooted in the New Testament Beatitudes, include equal numbers of men­tally handicapped people and "assistants" from a variety of religious backgrounds who live, work, play and pray together. 
Vanier insists that the experi­ence· of community benefits the assistants no less than their handicapped housemates. 
"The real beauty of the hand­icapped person," he says, "is 

· that he is vulnerable and he knows it, and he is gradually accepting it. The others of us are vulnerable, but we don't want to know it. We think we can be human beings only if we are strong or powerful or intel­ligent or successful. One of the reasons that handicapped peo­ple are rejected is that, in some way, they reveal to us who we are. We don't want to look at their weakness, because it obliges us to look at our own. The whole of wisdom is to gradually accept our weak­ness." Vanier was born Sept.10,1928 in Geneva, Switzerland. The son of a for­mer Canadian governor gener­al, he entered Dartmouth Naval College in England when he was 13 years old. In 1945 he joined the British navy, trans­ferring three years later to the Canadian navy, from which he resigned his commission in 1950. He studied philosophy and theology in France for the next ten years, obtained a doc­toral degree in philosophy from the Institut Catholique in Paris, and joined the faculty of St. Michael's University in Toronto. 

Dowty: Palestinians can make peace 
By ANNIE VENESKY 
NewsWrirer 
The people of Palestine have the intelligence, education and talent to make peace in the Middle East work, according to Professor Alan Dowty of the government department, a spe­cialist in Israeli-Arab relations. 
The International Study Pro­grams presented the first of its Jerusalem Program Lecture Series yesterday, "Mideast Po­litical Update." Dowty lived in Israel from 1963 through 197 5 and in Haifa from 1985 through 1987. 
He discussed the history of Israeli-Arab relations, includ­ing a synopsis of the future of the political conflict between the two factions. 
Dowty began by explaining the consequences of the Arab­Israeli War of 196 7, in which Israel gained control of the Gaza Strip and West Bank, Golan Heights and the Sinai Peninsula. 
These events spurred politi­cal turmoil within the Mideast region, as well as the forma­tion of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, a group determined to regain the lost Arab territory, through the use of violence and often ter­rorism. 
According to Dowty, "both Is­rael and the PLO were not ready to negotiate; they re­mained at a stalemate." 
"It was not until 1987, at the beginning of the Palestinian uprising against Israeli control, that the PLO, upset with the in­tolerable situation, decided to accept coexistence with the state of Israel," said Dowty. 
A law enacted by the Israeli government, however, pre­vented Israelis from meeting with PLO members, until last fall, when the new Labor Party in Israel committed itself to a Land for Peace agreement, in which land from Israel would be traded for peace. 
Several factors are pointing toward a completely Palestinian state according to Dowty. "Within one or two generations, Israel would be ruling over an Arab majority strip, and a five year transition population, and couldn't rule period will begin, in which the Jewish land democratically," PLO will begin to control edu­he said. cation, health, taxation, and 


"With the end of the Cold matters such as roads and War, many Arabs lost their sewers." sure source of arm supply, and Ultimately, if the plan works, in light of the Gulf War and the a new Palestinian state will Palestinian support for Hus­emerge, provided the control of sein, the PLO had most of its the divided city of Jerusalem funding cut off," he said. can be negotiated successfully, 
Looking toward the future of according to Dowty. Arab-Israeli relations, Dowty As for students interested in described the impending peace studying abroad in Jerusalem agreement between the two. that are apprehensive about 
the danger of the political 

"Within the next few months, situation, Dowty said, " he stated, "Israel will with­"Jerusalem is probably safer draw completely from the Gaza than Chicago." 
Journalist's goal is to make reader 'see' according to Eugene Roberts 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI 
News Writer 
Citing the work of the great journalists Red Smith and Homer Bigart in a lecture last night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, Eugene Roberts, for­mer executive editor of the Philadelphia Inquirer, said 

Roberts
that the writer's highest goal is to make the reader see as well as understand. 
Roberts, currently professor of journalism at the University of Maryland, delivered his lec­ture, "Writing for the Reader," as part of the Red Smith Lec­tureship. 
Throughout his speech Roberts referred to great jour­nalists, including Smith, a 1927 graduate of Notre Dame. 
"If he had me for five sen­tences, he had me for five min­utes," said Roberts. 
To demonstrate the type of writer Smith was, Roberts de­tailed one of Smith's columns about a golf tournament. Roberts said golf does not in­terest him. Smith's writing, however, brought the game to life for Roberts. "To this very moment, I couldn't tell a long iron from a short iron. But for the length of that column, I enjoyed golf." 
"To craftsmen such as Smith," Roberts later added, "the right words are to writing what the right tools are to car­pentry." 
Smith set a standard every­one admired, according to Roberts. Some years ago, Roberts explained, a movement began in journalism to make it more explanatory, to give the writing an emotional quality. But Smith believed that the writer should "explain things so well the reader gets the mean­ing," Roberts said. 
In addition to Smith, Roberts discussed another great writer who "made people see," Homer Bigart, the great war corre­spondent. 
"One of the many important benefits of fine writing on any newspaper is it often begets more fine writing," Roberts said. To him, "It is no surprise that two of the finest writers," Smith and Bigart, worked at the same newspaper, The New York Herald-Tribune. 
"The same newsroom climate that attracted one attracted the other," said Roberts. "Each had an earnestness that al­lowed him to pick other peo­ples' pockets for scraps of news. Each made readers see." 
Technical skill is important, according to Roberts, but the writer also needs general knowledge. 
"I think Homer and Red would have approved of the way this university teaches journalism, placing journalism and American Studies in the same department," said Roberts. It combines writing with something worth writing about. It makes you see." 
Roberts cited Tom Wolfe as an example of that combina­tion. "When you peer past his layered nouns," said Roberts, you see "there was this Ameri­can Studies way of looking at things." 
Roberts recalled the one time he knew of when his writing made an "indelible impres­sion." 
During his tenure as a Vietnam war correspondent for the New York Times, Roberts said, a soldier remembered him for having written "The Rambling and Rural Way," a column which appeared in Roberts's hometown newspa­per. 
Imagining what his old men­tor would have told him, Roberts said, "Of course that reader would have remem­bered you. You made him see." 


------~---­
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, October 21, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Consistency is goal of crime 



policy 

When The Observer runs the names of stu­dents charged in alcohol raids, we become inti­mately aware of our readers. 
After the most high profile busts, the phone lines are deluged with irate readers, hollering threats of legal action and bodily harm. And it is no easy task to defend a policy that we think is necessary, and at the same time remain sympathetic to the plight of a fellow student. 
Contrary to popular opinion, The Observer is not out to get students. We don't print names to get a student in trouble with parents, the University, professors or even corporate recruiters. We don't print names to make a criminal out of a freshman or sophomore who went to a party to have a couple beers. 
The Observer prints names of those charged of a criminal offense for one reason and that is to be consistent. ' 
Take, for example, a familiar case. Two years ago, police arrested former quarterback Rick Mirer and linebacker Demetrius DuBose during a party that went awry at Lafayette Square. The incident quickly hit the national scene. 
Should The Observer, and the dozens of other newspapers that carried the story, have run the players names? Of course. Mirer and Du~ose are considered public figures, and thetr arrest would interest anyone following the Notre Dame football team. 
But where does a newspaper draw the line between public and private ligures? Most stu­dents have an identity beyond their status as a student. Should The Observer consider a dorm president a public figure? What about a dorm service commissioner? How about the student manager for the women's soccer team? 
Such a policy would be too vague to imple­ment on a practical level. It is better to be both consistent and fair to all students. 
There are other reasons for the policy. Every paper, no matter how small the community it serves, identifies the person charged in a crime if the name is available. It is news that is of interest to a community, and, in the case of serious crimes, news that can be valuable. 
Students should understand two other facts about the policy: 
• 
The University does not lind out from The Observer who mixed it up with South Bend Police. The police department notifies the Office of Student Affairs as soon as the report is complete. 

• 
The Observer makes a point not to impli­cate _a student who may very well be innocent, but mstead simply reports that authorities charged an individual for a certain crime. We ~a~e an effort to avoid mistaken identity by hstmg a student's middle initial when neces­sary and by listing the student's dorm or street name. 


. Adhering .to the policy can be a sticky situa­tiOn, espectally when one day it could be a member of The Observer staff who is charged. It has happened. 
Now when a reader arrives in our office ir_ate about the latest crime story, we show htm a story from an April 1992 issue reporting that three Observer general board members were cited for underage drinking. And that usually quiets the opposition. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Theresa Aleman Susan Marx David Claremonr Jackie Moser 
Liura Ferguson Accent Sports Man Carbone Brian Kubicki Allison Ebcl Tanya Krywaruczenko Lab Tech Graphics Scon ). Mendenhall Chris Mullins 
Air France worker strike wreaks havoc in Paris 
PARIS 
The city's major airports were a traveler's dream ~ed~esday-more specifically, a nightmare-as strik­mg Air France employees fought police, invaded runways and forced the cancellation of hundreds of flights. The government, cr~ticized by foreign airlines for failing to confront the strikers, vowed to use force if necessary to unblock the runways. "The airlines of the world must be able to take ofT," Transport Minister Bernard Bosson told the National Assembly. Air France cancelled all but a handful of its flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle air­p~rt, although.fo_reign airlines operated almost normally. Flights of all atrhnes at Orly airport were halted for most of the day when hundreds of strikers twice occupied the runways. Strikers tried to march onto runways at Charles de Gaulle, but were blocked by helmeted riot police. Scuffles broke out on several occasions, and union offi­cials sai? about 10_ protesters were detained. Operations at the Nice, Marsmlle and Toulouse airports in southern France also were disrupted for several hours before flights resumed. The strike is part of a recent wave of ~alkouts and protests prompted by corporate cost-cut­tmg mo~es and the conservative government's plans to streamhne.and sell off state-owned companies. Air France Chatrman Bernard Attali, in a radio interview said the plan to trim 4,000 jobs -nearly 10 percent of the workforce -"will be put into effect without fail " and, described it as essential to the airline's survival. "We don t really have any choice," he said. "We're doing what all airlines are in the process of doing." In 1992, Air France lost $593 million, and Bosson said it is likely to lose about $1 billion this year. 
South Mrican land feud claims 24 more lives 
JOHANNESBURG 
An age-old land feud erupted into an early-morning battle that killed 24 people Wednesday, police said. Members of the Ngondini and Mnyangweni clans fought each other with knives, spears and firearms at Loskop in the northeastern part of the country, South African police spokesman Capt. Henry Budhram said. In addition to those killed, five people were seriously wounded and 11;bout 100 huts were gutted. "The faction fighting there is hoked to an old land dispute," Budhram said. He said two members of the Ngondini clan were killed Oct. 9, and 62 Mnyangw.eni huts were burned down two days later. ~ave Carnegte.. leader of a private mediation group active m the area, satd he would ask a local chief to intervene "It's an old faction fight with one tribe attacking th~ other and revenge attacks," Carnegie said. 
Perot's alliance loses customer over trade crusade 
DALlAS 
Ross Perot's opposition to a free trade agreement with Mexico is costing him business. At least one Mexican business­man says he decided not to build a fac­tory at Perot's Alliance Airport because the 1992 presidential candidate's high­profile campaign against the North American Free Trade Agreement. And other Texas and Mexico business lead­ers say the Dallas billionaire's stand looks hypocritical after the airport won a special duty-free "foreign-trade zone" designation last month. That means factories at the airport can import parts, assemble them and export finished products with­out paying duty. Alliance is a $200 million 17 000-acre industrial park built on Perot land north of Fo~t Worth. Ross Perot Jr. is in charge of developing the airport. The Perots tout the development as a multi-purpose air, high­way and railroad distribution center. 


NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 21. 
Thursday, Oct. 21 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Accu-Weather*forecasl fordaylime conditions and high lemperat.ures 

FRONTS: "T""""'r ...A....&.. ............ COLD WARM STATIONARY 1Clt993 Accu-Wealher. Inc. PrtJssure 
H L a ESJ IT] 0 ~ZJ ~ll (} ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a ABBOCI816d Pmss 
City H L Dallas 68 62 New Orleans 88 75 Denver 50 36 New York 54 51 Atlanta 83 65 Houston 85 67 Palatine 63 59 Baltimore 61 55 Los Angeles 90 59 Reno 79 54
(f 
~ u 

Boston 51 47 Miami 85 78 Seattle 61 43 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Si1oW Ice 

Chicago 59 51 Milwaukee 56 51 Toronto 58 40 Columbus 70 56 Minneapolis 55 40 Washington, D.C. 65 60
Via Associated Press GraphJCsNel 
·~

,----------·---------------·-­
Nineteen states and the District of Columbia

Juvenile_gun 
have adopted strict anti-gun laws, and a half-dozen more are considering action.

possession 
D 
State• 

with Juvenile 
gun f•w• Juvenile gun laws adopted by 19 states and the District of Columbia: 
•Arizona: 
Prohibtts possession of firearms by anyone under 18 except in certain supen~lsed situations. 

•Arkanaaa: 
Prohlb"s possession of a handgun by anyone under 18. 


Pollee may disarm, Without arresting, a minor in possession of a handgun. :~:l~la: Prohlb"s possession of a concealable firearm by anyone 
•colorac~c?: 
Prohibits po~sesslon of anyone under 18 except when target·practlcing, undergomg firearms training or hunting with an adult. 

• 
latrlct of Columbia: Prohibits anyone under 1 8 to possess a handgun without a registration certificate. 

•llllnole: 
Prohibits possession ol a concealable firearm by anyone under 18. 

• 
M..HChu..na: Prohibits possession of a handgun without a firearms Identification card. Cards cannot be Issued to anyone under 18. 

• 
Minneeote: Prohibits possession of a pistol by anyone under 18 unless supervised by a parent or guardian. 

•Nebraeka: 
Prohibits. possession of a handgun by anyone under 18.

•New 
Jereey: Prohlbrts possession of a flraarm by anyone under 18 unless supervised by a parent. or tOf mllltsry, hunting Of IB'9"t shooling purposes. 

•New 
York: Prohibits possession of a firearm by anyone under 16. 

•North 
Carolina: Makes ota felony to possess or carry a firearm on school property I'd a mlsdemea~or for aperson under 18 to possess or carry a handgun. • 


North Dakota. Prohoblts possession by anyone under 18 unless supervised by an &dull •oregon: Prohibits possesaion by anyone under 18 except with parental consent · 
•Rhodelalend: 
Prohlb"s possesalon of firearms by anyone under 15 except when eniaged on firearms training. • outh Caroline: Forbids possession of a pistol by anyone under 21. except when supervised by a parent or adult instructor. 

• 
Utah: Prohibits anyone under age 18 lo possess a dangerous weapon Including a firearm without parental permission. 

•vtrglnla: 
Prohib»s anyone under 18 from possessing a handgun except for supervised target shooting. 

•wnt 
VIrginia: Prohibits possession by minors under 18 except on private property and w•th perm1ss1on of the owner or lessee. 

• 
Wt.aconaln: Prohlbrts possession by anyone under 18 excepi during supervised target practoce or for forearms onstruction by an adult. 


AP!Wm. J. Castello, Alex Slblmy 

Plans halted to distribute 'Hitler the Comic Book' 
BONN, Germany 

Germany has halted a plan to distribute "Hitler -The Comic Book" to high school pupils after a government agency ?ecided the publication could be seen to glorify t~e Nazt era. The 200-page comic book portrays Hitler's nse to power, the Nazis' cruel medical experiments, b~o?died corpse.s .~f murdered Jews and German troops kdlmg French ctvthans. The book is part of a half-million mark ($308,000) teachers' package that also contains pos_ters a~d a computer game showing students how to restst a Httler-style dictatorship. The Federal Center for Polit!cal Education, a government agency that provides pubhc school materials, at first supported the package and promised to distribute it to German public schools. ~ut the age~cy last week dropped its endorsement, say­mg the comtc book could make pupils identify more with Hitler than with his victims. 
NAACP chapter restores service with AT&T 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. 

The North Carolina chapter of the NAACP resolved its fight with AT&T over an offending cartoon in the phone co~pany's emp~oy?e magazine. The state chapter of the Natwnal Assoctatton for the Advancement of Colored People is restoring long distance service with American Telephone & Tel~g~aph Co., chapt~r president Kelly Alexander Jr. satd 10 a statement fuesday. lie cited "~T&T's long st~.nding mutually respectful relationship With the NAACP. However, a spokeswoman at national NAACP headquarters in Baltimore said Wednesday that no agreement had been made at the national level. The ~hapter complained to ~T&T last month about a drawing 10 a co.mp~ny magaz10e ,sent to 300,000 employees worldwtde 10 September. fhe drawing showed charac­ters on several continents talking by telephone. All the characters were human except the one in Africa, which ~as a.~onkey. The state group decried the drawing as m~enstttve and announced plans to stop doing business With AT&T. 
The Obsc;rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhli>hcd Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. Th(' Observer is a mcm~r of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Thursday, October 21, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Storin to discuss
Zappio speaks on the 
future of communications

living wills of aging 
By SUNNY BYERS 
News Writer 
Aging citizens must take into consideration a living will, and along with that comes the con­troversial subject of health care, according to South Bend attorney Mario Zappia, in a lecture last night. 
The living will and trust is a "declaration" that should com­ply with regulations of the state where the individual resides. In case of medical problems, it is the individual's personal de­cision to determine if they want to prolong their life or not, Zappia said. 
"A living will does not become effective until the patient is terminally ill," said Zappia. "A terminal condition is defined as being caused by injury, disease or illness from which, to a responsible degree of medical certainty, there can be no recovery and death will occur without the provision of life prolonging procedures." 
Confronting the issue of the living will involves a concerned attorney to look after one's per­sonal necessities and to ensure their best possible welfare. 
Zappia explained that it is at­torneys who have the durable power for health care. 
"A health care representa­tive is appointed when the patient is incapable of consent­ing," he said. "The attorney becomes the financier and han­dles all real estate and business transactions in case the indi­vidual becomes not competent enough to do it themselves." 
"There is a long term care insurance that has a fixed amount of coverage for an indi­vidual. To qualify for this gov­ernment aide you must be des­titute and in need of 24 hour care, " Zappia said. "With the long term care insurance, the individual is guaranteed their full benefits." 
Zappia added that the Indiana Health Care Consent Law requires that a health care representative act in the best interest of the patient and in good faith. 
The Observer/ Alan Smith 
Blueprints for an architect 

Sorin Hall freshman Abdul Muzikir works diligently on his drawing assignment in the Notre Dame architecture building. 
Special to The Observer 
Matthew Storin, editor of the Boston Globe, will dis­cuss the future of communi­cations and journalism dur­ing a lecture Friday, Oct. 22 titled, "The Coming Media Revolution: What's in it for You?". 
Storin, a 1964 Notre Dame alumnus, will speak at 12:15 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library lounge. 
Editor of the Globe since last March, Storin previously served as the newspaper's executive editor. His return to the Globe followed stints as deputy managing editor of 
U.S. News & World Report, editor of the Chicago Sun Times, and both managing editor and executive editor of the New York Daily News. 
Storin was first employed by the Globe in 1969 as White House correspondent. He held a variety of posts at the Globe, including city edi­tor, Asian correspondent, national editor and man­aging editor. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 

WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLD 
"Welcome to the real world." These words, spoken to me many times when I was a student (and sometimes now that I am not) would cause my blood to boil. How dare people accuse me of not having lived in the real world! Were they saying that my hometown of Michigan City, Indiana was not the real world? Were they denying, God forbid, that Notre Dame was the real world? Because I prided myself on being "a real world kind of guy"! 
I came to understand that although there were more tactful ways of doing it, people were welcoming me to a new experience, not denying that I was in the real world. In effect, they were welcoming me to another part of reality, another part of the real world. I was being welcomed to recognize, again and again, that the world is bigger than Michigan City, bigger than Notre Dame, and bigger than me. 
Not long after Jesus departed, some of his followers began to understand that they were being welcomed by Jesus to recognize, again and again, that the world is bigger than Jerusalem, bigger than Judea, and bigger than them. His followers began to understand that he was calling them to do what he did: enter into the lives of others, especially those in pain. St. Paul urged the followers of Christ to expand their vision and enter into the lives of other people: people of different cultures and people of different experiences. 
Being Christian means recognizing that the world is bigger than "me". Being Catholic means recognizing that the Church is us and bigger than us. Christians are called to enter this multicultural world, learning from others and spreading the good news. 
The Catholic Church has had a long history of cross-cultural 
missionary activity. It is important to admit that some of it is 
regrettable. We have not always sought to learn from other cultures. In 
fact, the Church is partly responsible for dismantling the cultural­
religious heritage of some peoples. One very notable example of this 
took place in much of Latin America. Yet, even during some of the 
most regrettable and unjust activity, there were Christian missionaries 
who sought to learn from people of different cultures and to join them 
in their joy and their struggles. They felt welcomed by God to learn 
another part of the real world. They felt welcomed to see another part 
of the face of Christ. 
Cross-cultural missionary activity is not a thing of the past, but we have a history from which to learn: To join people in their joys and struggles is to spread the gospel. To enter into another part of the real world requires an attitude of learning and listening. 
At all the masses at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart this Sunday, half of the collection will go to the missionary activity of the priests and brothers of Holy Cross who live and work in Latin America, Asia, and Africa. The priests and brothers of Holy Cross say that no culture of this world can be our abiding home. It is this Spirit which sent Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. and the Holy Cross brothers out of France and brought them to Michiana in 1842. It is a Spirit which does not belong to Holy Cross, but to all. It is a Spirit which is to be at the heart Notre Dame. 
Ideally, education is about constantly being welcomed to another part of the real world. It is about expanding visions. More than about the "vision thing", it is also about entering into this world which is bigger 
than "me". 

Whether we realize it or ·not, we are always being welcomed to another part of the real world. We are called to have a global vision. Not everyone is called to be a missionary. There are various ways of entering into more of the real world. 
So, please keep welcoming me to the real world. Let's keep entering the real world together. It's our call to freedom. It's our call to responsibility. It's our call to salvation. 
Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. October 23  5:00p.m.  Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  
Rev. George Lucas, C.S.C., Homilist  
Sun. October 24  8:00a.m.  Rev. George Lucas, C.S.C.  
10:00 a.m.  Roger Cardinal Mahony, D.O.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.,  
Rev. George Lucas, C.S.C., Homilist  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING Exodus 22: 20..26 2ND READING 1 Thessalonians 1 : 5 .. 1 0 GosPEL Matthew 22: 34..40 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 21, 1993 
Thousands receive Pell Brand-name pirates no real thing 


PLAYING AT WAsHINGTON HALL ON THURSDAY, NoVEMBER 4 FRIDAY, NoVEMBER 5 AND SATURDAY, NoVEMBER 6 $14-RESERVED SEATS . $10-STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZENS TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAfORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MAsTERCARD AND VIsA ORDERS CALL: 631-8128 
grants for decade or more 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
More than 4,000 students have collected Pell grants for 11 years or more, and in one case a student got the federal money for 19 years, Sen. Sam Nunn said Wednesday. 
The Education Department discovered the long-term tu­ition subsidies for 4,095 stu­dents when it examined its Iiles to answer a series of questions Nunn had posed as part of a probe by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. 
"I am not surprised by this revelation," Nunn, D-Ga., said in a statement. "The Department of Education has been managed so poorly in the past that it did not even know this apparent abuse had been occurring." 
The disclosure came as Nunn announced hearings for next Wednesday and Thursday on problems in the program, the government's largest cash aid plan for students in post-sec­ondary education. 
Some 3.8 million of America's neediest students received an average of $1,763 each last year in Pell grants at 6,300 eli­gible schools. 
David Longanecker, assistant secretary for post-secondary education, said federal policy on how long students can receive Pell grants has changed several times over the years. 
He said it is not currently ille­gal for grants to be extended well beyond the normal four­year span of a conventional un­dergraduate college education. 
But Nunn made it clear he believes the program is out of control. 
Committee investigators have discovered schools that exist only to milk the program for federal subsidies, he said. 

Other schools pay students ap­parent kickbacks to attend classes and let their names be used on grant applications. And still others routinely falsify records to win grants for ineli­gible students, Nunn said. 
On Monday, the department mailed notices informing 21 orthodox Jewish schools, all but one in the New York City area, that they were being barred from Pell grants and other federal student aid pro­grams because their programs did not provide training aimed at job goals. 
Longanecker said the Jewish academies were trying to "rip off' taxpayers to finance their operations. 
A dozen or more other schools that also offer pro­grams in Judaic studies are un­der investigation by the de­partment and more enforce­ment actions may follow, he said. 
A federal grand jury in New York also is investigating sev­eral dozen Hasidic Jewish schools and other institutions over alleged abuses in the $6.7 billion Pell Grant program. 
Don't miss this opportunity to see some of the best inter­preters of Shakespeare in the world. This event will sell out, so get your tickets before break or they may be gone. 
• ll)l))-9-+ Sl \~l1N • l (~ i\1 M Lll\ ll. \ I ll1 j\; AND I Ill A I I\ I 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
American fast-food franchises proliferate in this city nestled high in the Andes. You can grab a bite at a Pizza Hut, a Dunkin Donuts or a Whopper King. 
Whopper King? , 
You read that right. Not Burger King, the "Home of the Whopper" that Americans are familiar with, but Whopper King, a counterfeit knock-off. 
In Bogota and many other ci­ties around the world, busi­nesses frequently use variations of U.S. brands or duplicate them letter for letter. 
In the sleek shopping districts of Bogota's wealthy northern section, there are Benny's ice cream parlors -looking just like Ben & Jerry's of Waterbury, Vt. 
Benny's has the same letter­ing and dairy cow motif as Ben & Jerry's and sells Cherry Gar­cia, a top Ben & Jerry's brand. But instead of rich cherry ice cream and chunks of chocolate and cherries, Benny's version is a bland mix of artificial-tasting ice cream and candied cher­ries. 

In Bogota's Zona Rosa, a casi­no, bar and restaurant district, Colombians wearing pre-faded jeans and tennis shoes crowd into Friday's, which serves burgers, beer and other fare under a red and white awning. Except for the chatter in Spanish, the scene could be a TGI Friday's in New York or Washington. 
Consumers don't seem to care that they're not buying or patronizing the real thing. 
Advertising is helping to cre­ate a homogeneous and bland consumers-one which en­courages people to seek status symbols at the expense of qual­ity, a Colombian sociologist says. 
"Many people can't afford Nike sneakers, for example," said Myriam Henao of the Uni­versidad del Valle in Bogota. "So companies make copies and sell them cheaper -and acquiring that label becomes more important than having the quality of the genuine item or of another item." 
Joseph Finnin, executive di­rector of the Colombian-Ameri­can Chamber of Commerce, has little respect for brand-name pirates. 
"Somebody took the time, designed a logo, put it on the market and spent years build­ing the company's prestige and for someone to come along and copy it ..." Finnin said, shaking his head. 
None of the owners of coun­terfeit businesses contacted in Bogota was willing to speak on the record. One, however, de­fended his action, saying that taking the name of another firm was a form of tribute to that company. 
Jerry Greenfield, one of the founders of Ben & Jerry's, laughed when a reporter told him there was a copycat chain here, saying he'd be surprised if the Cherry Garcia reference, a play on the name of rock singer Jerry Garcia, would be understood in Colombia. 
But Greenfield said he would rather do without the honor of being copied. After building Ben & Jerry's into an interna­tional firm with outlets in Rus­sia and Israel over a period of 15 years, "Our name, our con­cept and our brand are that much more important to us," Greenfield said in a telephone interview. 

I 
I 
Thursday, October 21, 1993 The Observer • HAITI UPDATE page 5 
•





Haiti's prime minister threatens to restgn. 
By DAVID BEARD 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

Under U.S. pressure to make 
new concessions, Haiti's prime 
minister threatened on 
Wednesday to resign if Haiti's 
military chiefs don't step down 
as required by a U.N. plan to 
restore democracy. 
Prime Minister Robert Mal­
val's position further compli­
cated international efforts to 
push through the plan that en­
visions the Oct. 30 return of ex­
iled President Jean-Bertrand 
Aristide. 
The head of a parliamentary 
"crisis committee" said law­
makers cannot complete their 
work in time for Aristide's 
scheduled return. 
U.S. 
Embassy spokesman Stanley Schrager, however, insisted that the plan was "still not dead." 

U.S. 
and U.N. mediators pre­sented Malva! with a document this week that calls for broad­ening the interim government he heads so that it would in­clude more of Aristide's oppo­nents. 


The intent of the document 
was angrily debated with the 
Clinton administration by Aris­
tide's supporters, who feel the 
proposal caves in to the de­. mands of the military leaders. 
Six U.S. Navy warships, three 
Canadian vessels and 10 U.S. 
Coast Guard cutters, are pa­
trolling off Haiti's coast to en­
force a worldwide oil and arms 
embargo that began Monday to 
force the army to cooperate. 
Argentina, the Netherlands, 
Britain and France are also 
sending warships. 
The U.S. Navy has reported stopping three Haiti-bound ships since the embargo took effect. 
50 miles

Haiti d_evelopments -50km 
p ~vt::::7 
~Turks and ° Caicos Is. 
Atlantic Ocean 
Guantanamo Bay, 
U.S. Naval base 

0 
Six U.S. warships and at least 10 Coast Guard cutters are in waters right off Haiti enforcing the naval blockade. A U,S, Navy frigate stops a ship for Haiti in the first interception since U,N, embargo was reimposed. Ship's cargo of cement is not prohibited under the embargo, but its captain says he is going to bypass Haiti and take h1s cargo to the Turks and Caicos islands. 
A The 220-mile border Haiti shares in the
V interior with the Dominican Republic remains open and not monitored. Contraband commonly passes the Haiti-Dominican frontier. 
A The embargo and a rash of violence prompt some Haitians to hoard 
V food, but no gas lines are visible in stations in the capital or along 60-mile stretch of highway from Port-au-Prince to port of Miragoane. Diplomats estimate Haiti has six weeks to three months of fuel supplies. 
The U.N. plan, signed in July, calls for the country's military authorities to step down before Aristide returns. Aristide was ousted in a September 1991 military coup. 
"If on Oct. 30 President Aris­tide is not in Haiti ... This is the end of my mission," Malva! told the Associated Press on Wednesday. 
AP/CariFox 
Malva! said he did not want to be part of any stalling efforts on the part of Aristide's oppo­nents. An aide said Malva! would only consider staying on if Aristide himself extended the Oct. 30 deadline. 
Schrager, the U.S. Embassy spokesman, said army com­mander Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras and police chief Lt. Col. Joseph Michel Francois have de­manded that Malva! include four coup supporters in his Cabinet. 

In Washington, Aristide re­fused to discuss the document, but said, "We are ready to ex­pand the process but first they have to be removed." Aristide was referring to Cedras, Fran­cois and other military leaders. 
An Aristide aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the document was "a fancy way for the United Nations and the United States to kowtow to these armed thugs and give them what they are seeking." 
The Clinton administration believes the Cabinet should be broadened to include business leaders and others outside Aristide's inner circle, a State Department official said in Washington. 
"At no point have we ever discussed power sharing with any anti-democratic element nor do we intend to do so," said 
U.S. Ambassador William Swing. Speaking to reporters, Swing did not clarify whether he referred to all Aristide op­ponents. 
Aristide has refused to return until Cedras and Francois step down. The military leaders in­sist on a full amnesty for the coup participants before they resign. 
A parliamentary "crisis com­mittee" is working on a general amnesty law and other legisla­tion designed to clear the way for Aristide's return. But its chairman, Antoine Joseph, told the AP that its work would not be complete by Oct. 30. 
Schrager, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that a U.S. military plane was flying in armored vehicles to help protect Malval, whose justice minister was assassinated last week. 




Mediators call to broaden Haiti's interim government 
By GEORGE GEDDA supporters of Haiti's deposed refused to discuss the document Associated Press president. or its implications but said, "We A top aide to ousted President are ready to expand the WASHINGTON Jean-Bertrand Aristide said the process, but first they have to 
U.S.-Ied mediators presented document was an effort by the be removed." Aristide was Haitian Prime Minister Robert United States to break the cur­referring to army chief Raoul Malva) with a document this rent political impasse in Haiti Cedras and his lieutenants who week that calls for a broaden­by adding supporters of Haiti's seized power in 1991. ing of Haiti's interim govern­military chieftains to key gov­The document was presented ment. The intent of the docu­ernment posts. The Clinton this week by U.S. and other ment was angrily debated by administration flatly denied it. international mediators to the Clinton administration and On Capitol Hill, Aristide Malva!, who was chosen by 
Aristide as interim prime minis­ter this past summer.
TUESDAY 
State Department officials said the document was in­tended to be a speech that Male 
9 p.m. -12 a.m. $1 per game! 
THURSDAY 
val would deliver to the nation 
Time Bowl. .. 9:30-11 :30 only $10 per lane 
0~" We're Still Open 
~ 
~ 0'" Daily from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m.
f<ee 
THE COMMONS 
"The Tradition Continues" 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 


P0'SY (I ~iltt:h 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 


Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 5140031 North South Bend, IN 46637 
L____________________________________________________________________________________ 
on the current crisis. They said Aristide, from his exile in Washington, vetoed the speech. 
Aristide was bypassed in the mediation process. He learned of the document when Malval sent him a copy. 
An Aristide aide, speaking only on condition of anonymity, charged that the language in the document was an attempt by U.S. officials and other medi­ators to impose new conditions -favorable to the military -· on the agreement reached last July for Aristide's return. 
The document "is a fancy way for the United Nations and the 
~ 
~A
,..o.oe1
o,., 
(219) 277-1291 1-800-328-0206 
United States to kowtow to these armed thugs and give them what they are seeking," the aide said. 
He added: "It was presented to Malva) on a take-it-or-leave­it basis." 
The Clinton administration rejected the charge. State Department press officer David Johnson said the mediators "never entertained" the notion of including "non-democratic sectors" in the cabinet. 
In addition, White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said the United States is not out to "appease Cedras and (police chief Joseph Michel) Francois. ... I can tell you right now that non-democratic forces will not play a role in the Haitian gov­ernment." 
The July agreement calls for Cedras and Francois to step down as a prelude to Aristide's return, set for Oct. 30. But Cedras and Francois have balked at keeping their end of the bargain, casting doubt on whether Aristide will return on schedule. 
As for the proposal to broad­en the Malva! government, a State Department official said the administration believes the cabinet appointed by Malva! is too narrow and should include more representation from busi­ness leaders and others outside of Aristide's party. He spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The charges and counter­charges reflect ongoing mis­trust between U.S. officials and the Aristide camp even though they ostensibly are on the same side. 


page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT , Thursday, October 21, 1993 


Exceeding Expectations 


It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. 71zere are many reasons t._, join De/oitte & Touche­our clients, our dedication to quality, our pro/essiona/ development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: to consistently exceed the expectations o/our clients and our people. 
With 15,000 people in more than 100 offices in the United States, and through our global organization, De/oitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we al/er clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse port/olio a/ services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, pro/essiona/ly and personally. So why not join a f;rm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the /allowing graduates /ram the Class a/ '93 who have recently joined Deloitte & Touche: 
]elfAbbot  Paul Darno  Bernie Grzelak  ]oe Maida  Angie Smith  
Matt Amann  Lew Derbes  Rhonda Jackson  Mike O'Brien  Adrienne Speyer  
foe Ashby  joseph Desantis  Keith Kucinski  foe Quinn  Kim Steel  
Ruth Barromeo  Drew Dayle  fenny Kulbieda  Bob Reilly  Chris Sukow  
Matt Cenedel/a  Scott Ecker  ]oe Laur  Russ Singer  Dan Walter  
Mike Cipriano  Steve Egan  Cory Lawrence  jeremy Smith  Ken Wincko  
In addition, Mark Bangasser, Nancy Davis, Ivan Hoffman, Ashley Kocevar, Angie Kalbas, Brian Murray and ]on Oleksyk are first  Ueloitte &  

/ram the class a/'94 to accept our al/er a/employment a/ter graduation. We/come Mark, Nancy, Ivan, Ashley, Angie, Brian and ]on! 
Touche 
The above professionals are joining our of/ices in Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, Cincinnati, Detroit, Hartford, Indianapolis, Las Angeles, Louisville, 
Milwaukee, New Orleans, New York, Orange County-Costa Mesa, Parsippany, Phi/adelphia, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Richmond. Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We L 1 s t e n • We D e 1 1 v e r . 
Deloitte Touche Tohrnatsu lntemational 
Ocloitte c-? Touche is an equal opportunity finn. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 


Thursday, October 21, 1993 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Rebels advance on Georgia's second largest city, Kutaisi 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
KUTAISI, Georgia 
Rebels trying to overthrow Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze were driven back Wednesday as they tried to advance on a strategic city, and also lost ground near a key Black Sea port. 
Russia, meanwhile, said it was deploying troops at Shevardnadze's request to guard highways and railroads that lead from Georgia's coast to Russia, Armenia and Azerbaijan. Moscow said H would not get involved in fight­ing. 
Armenia and Azerbaijan re­portedly agreed to help keep the transportation links open. 
The rebel offensive, led by ousted national~t President Zviad Gamsakhurdia, had ad­vanced in recent days to within seven miles of Kuta.isi, threat­ening to cut Georgia in half. 
The loss of Kutai3i, Georgia's second-largest city. would be a major blow to ~hevardnadze, the former Soviet foreign min­ister who is fighting to hold his Caucasus Mountain nation to­gether. Last month, govern­ment troops lost the northwest province of Abkhazia to a sepa­rate insurgency. 
The government rushed hun­dreds of reinforcements Wednesday to Kutaisi, a city of about 250,000 people located 125 miles west of Tbilisi. 
The Interfax news agency re­ported that government troops retook Poti, Georgia's main Black Sea port. Interior Ministry spokesman Valerian Gogolashvili could not confirm that the city had been retaken, but did report government ad­vances in the area. 
The rebels' seizure of Poti cut off vital food links to the capi-


Relief convoy reaches Muslims 
By SNJEZANA VUKIC 
Associated Press 
MOSTAR, Bosnia­
Herzegovina 
The first aid convoy in five months reached more than 100,000 Muslims on Wednesday in a besieged pock­et of northern Bosnia. 
The arrival of food and medi­cine in the town of Tesanj came on the same day that about 6,000 ethnic Croat refugees from central Bosnia reached safety in territory con­trolled by Croatian troops. 
The events highlighted the suiTering of the one-time allies in an 18-month-old war that began as a battle with Serbs over secession from Serb-dom­inated Yugoslavia and degenerated into a fight to splinter Bosnia into ethnic states. 
"This is the first relief con­voy since May" to reach Tesanj, said Peter Kessler, a 
U.N. aid spokesman in Zagreb, Croatia. 
Ron Redmond, a U.N. spokesman in Geneva, said the 103,000 inhabitants of Tesanj had been under siege for 115 days without relief supplies ex­cept for some food dropped by parachute. 
The nine-truck convoy, 
carrying 84 tons of supplies, 
was permitted to cross Serb­
held territory, and Bosnian 
army engineers had to remove 
land mines before it reached 
the town, Redmond said. Serbs ·had delayed earlier attempts to reach Tesanj and nearby Maglaj. 
Redmond said U.N. officials 
now would try to get aid trucks 
to Maglaj, home to 40,000 hun­
gry people as soon as possible. 
"In Maglaj, when people are ·wounded, they're carried usu­
ally by horse or on foot on the 
three-hour journey to Tesanj to 
the hospital," Redmond said. 
He said people in Tesanj had 
run out of medical supplies 
and were desperately hungry. 
"People have actually been 
fighting over some of the air­
dropped food," Redmond said. 
Somewhere along the way, a crowd stopped the convoy and stole about 100 bags of flour, Kessler said. 
"The food situation in Bosnia is becoming more difficult, and people are more desperate to take it one way or another," he said. 
Elsewhere, a convoy of 75 trucks, buses and cars carrying mostly women and children ar­rived in Capljina near Bosnia's border with Croatia, said Mara Jurkovic, a local official. 
They had been on the move since June, when they fled Croat villages for Vares, a Croat-held town of 12,000 peo­ple in central Bosnia north of Sarajevo. 
But their trek was not over because Capljina already holds 3,500 refugees and has no room for more people. 
About 2,000 are to go to the Croatian port of Ploce, and then be taken by boat to the Istrian peninsula along the northern Adriatic. The remain­der will be sheltered in Croat­held western Bosnia­Herzegovina. 

tal, Tbilisi, where city officials on Wednesday said strict food rationing would begin within three weeks. 
Gogolashvili did say troops had reclaimed the railroad town of Lanchkuti, west of Kutaisi, and Khoni, to the northwest. 
Georgian security official Vladimir Chikovani said 50 rebels and 10 government troops were killed in fighting Wednesday. 
Georgia's army is in disarray, and none of the soldiers arriv­ing in Kutaisi were from regu­lar units. They were volunteers, 
NATO niulls 
police and members of paramil­itary groups. 
Along the front line west of the city, about 20 exposed and disorganized government sol­diers with a single tank were guarding the military airport of Kopitnari. 
"We cannot go forward," conceded their commander, Barta Goliashvili. "We hope the other side will see sense and stop the bloodletting." 
Shevardnadze had appealed Tuesday for military help from Russia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. 
over nuclear 


threat, seeks new partners 

By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press 
TRAVEMUENDE, Germany 
NATO defense ministers agreed Wednesday to consider making "partners" of their for­mer East Bloc foes and re­vamping alliance strategy to deal with nuclear threats from terrorists or renegade states. 
Defense Secretary Les Aspin recommended the sweeping changes at the beginning of a two-day session of North At­lantic Treaty Organization de­fense ministers. The plans will undergo final scrutiny at a NATO summit in January. 
"It's a brand new world out there," Aspin said prior to the meeting, a comment that fit his plans for changing NATO's mission as well as its extended membership. 
"The old threat was thou­sands of warheads in the hands of the Soviet Union, and we had equal numbers of those warheads," Aspin said. "What we face now is a handful of 


SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you andyour group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After~Game Parties! 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 115 w. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) 
Open 8 a.m. on home game days! 

*All Turkey Based 
1Ea'l.n tfu ::iEC.'l.Et::i of· §famou'l. 
d/(ake-up in a two hou'l. c.fa::i::i-­
not f'l.om a ::iafE::iPE'l.::ion fEanln_:; 
ouE'l. thE c.ountE'l.. Cla::i::iE::i lnc.LudE !:JOU'l. PE'l.::iOnaf makEOCJ'E'l. ~nd a photo ::iE::i::ilon. !Book & d/(akE­
up af::1o lnc.fudEJ. Caff 291-2207 
, EfE anc.E & c$t 
A senior defense official, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty, said the defense ministers were receptive to Aspin's sug­gestion that the alliance update its approach to the nuclear threat. 
Likewise, German Defense Minister Volker Ruehe said "I have the impression that there is a consensus" on the part­nership plan. 
Aspin said a "Partnership for Peace" would be offered to the 22 former members of the Warsaw Pact and four Euro­pean neutral nations -Swe­den, Austria, Finland and Switzerland. 
All former members of the former Soviet Union -includ­ing Russia and Ukraine ­would be eligible, Aspin said. 
While the partners would not be considered fully in NATO, because the alliance guaran­tees the security of its mem­ber~· borders and the new plan would not, Aspin did not rule out the possibility of full mem­bership later. 
Meanwhile, the partners would be able to participate in peacekeeping missions, disas­ter relief operations, search and rescue missions and crisis management operations, the secretary said. • 
The partners would take part in joint military exercises, be required to share information about their defense budgets and defense forces, show that civilians control their military structure and learn to work to­gether on military matters, Aspin said. 
"One lesson we learned from Desert Storm is that the people who have trained together un­der NATO operate together very efficiently," Aspin said. 
The defense secretary said Manfred Woerner, NATO's Secretary General, and several other ministers endorsed his idea on expanding ties with the former East Bloc. 

Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid A venue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-34 72 
SYRACUSE ABROAD Something to write home about! r.'... 


• Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, France, Gennany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain 

• Prior foreign language not always necessary 
• 
SU credit 

• 
Field trips/traveling seminars 

• 
Internships 

• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home or limited aparunent placements 








VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 21, 1993 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
New. Editor................ Meredith Mc-cullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor .................................jake Perers Saint Mary's Edimr............. Jennifer Habrych 
Dear Editor: 
In his Inside Column (The Observer, Oct. 13), Mark Krejci attributes economic disparities between blacks and whites to the "powerful forces" of a phe­nomenon called "institutional racism." 
The article contains many ex­amples of Krejci's compassion and many false claims. but no identification of these "powerful forces" and no explanation of how these alleged forces cause economic disparity between blacks and whites. 

lie asserts that "it would be difficult to disagree that equal opportunity is a myth in America." Is Krejci familiar with Title VII of the 1964 Civil Hights Act, prohibiting racial discrimination in employment? In fact, court interpretations of the Qvil Hights Act have given blacks more than mere equal opportunity. 
In the 1971 case of Griggs v. Duke Power Co. the Supreme Court ruled that the defendant company could not use ordi­nary employment criteria such as a high school diploma and literacy, if the criteria disquali­fied a disproportionate amount of blacks. This and other simi­lar cases forced employers to hire blacks, qualified for the job or not, out of fear of litigation. 
Next Krejci brings up the stale old accusation that "those in power are doing nothing to remedy the problems in the in­ner cities of our country." Those in power have certainly been trying through means­tested welfare programs. 
Means-tested welfare pro­grams, as opposed to general 
DOONESBURY 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 

Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Controller ...................................~...Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and ~bjectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the vinvs of the authors, and not necessarily thost" of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Obsc;rver Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Acccnr/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoim 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Self-improvement and determination are hardly mythical 
welfare programs, provide as­sistance specifically for poor persons and economically dis­tressed communities. Measured in constant 1990 dollars, means-tested welfare spending totaled $77 billion and repre­sented 2.4 percent of GNP in 1970 as part of the programs of Johnson's "War on Poverty." By 1990 means-tested welfare spending had ballooned to $211.9 billion and represented 
3.9 percent of GNP. 
The problem is not that those in power are doing little for economically disadvantaged blacks. but that those in power are doing too much. The aver­age mother in the average state can obtain about twelve to thir­teen thousand dollars a year in welfare benefits. The dollar amount of these benefits ap­proach or exceed the pay of a job. "This is the welfare trap," says Tom Bethel of National Heview. "Try to escape by tak­ing a job, and you may have to accept a pay cut, you may lose your health insurance. you will certainly have to work every­day." 
The welfare system perpetu­ates the existence of the under­class in another way: it con­tributes to the breakdown of the family unit. If a welfare recipient decided to marry, the earning of the future spouse can make the recipient ineligi­ble for welfare benefits. 
Many women who have been on welfare for an extended length of time, and who are morally comfortable with their state of dependency and unpro­ductive lives, are unwilling to marry if the earnings of their potential husband will make them ineligible for welfare ben­efits. 
Instead the couple live apart or live together secretly, while having sexual relations. With the absence of the moral and legal bond of marriage, com­panions find terminating the relationship simple, thus the proliferation of single mothers. Census Bureau figures indicate that two-thirds of all never­married black women between the ages of 18 and 44 have given birth. 
' I f they want to see true 
improvement in the quality of Hfe for blacks, civil rights leaders should 
stop blaming mythical racist forces ... ' 
As they become experts of liv­ing the life of dependency, wel­fare mothers look for ways to increase their "income." An easy target is the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program. In simple terms, more children equals more money. The per­cent of American children de­pendent on AFDC has risen from 8.5 percent in 1970 to 
12.9 percent in 1991. 
The combination of the wel­fare system's incentives for ir­responsibly producing children and disincentives for marriage lead to the following chilling fact. In the immediate post World War II era. the number of black children born to mar­ried parents was two in three. 
Now in cities like Washington 

I didn'b. Igot 
the p!I55Won::i from a bulletin Ooilrd.. The$XX! hackers can~t ln anywhere-con­
certs, bwsi.rlesse5. 
sovernment files, yrunameit. 
TAP.' 1AP! 

Mr. Bill Goes to Haiti 
D. C. the number is one in eight. The break down of the family unit, not racism, is the major cause of disparities be­tween blacks and whites. Single parent families by definition do not earn as much money as two parent families. 
Further. children who are conceived for the express pur­pose of supplementing the mother's wdfare check do not receive the parental guidance necessary for their proper growth. Many conscientious single parents attempt to pro­vide guidance, but lind the task beyond their capabilities. 
With lack of parental guid­ance, many children run wild in the streets. Those who manage to avoid the violence, drug pushing, and gangs will almost certainly be undereducated be­cause of an improper home at­mosphere. 
Further aggravating the delinquency of the underclass are people like Krejci and cer­tain civil rights leaders, who spread the erroneous notion that the sorry state of many blacks is due to racism. According to liberal black columnist," William Raspberry, "Most of the things complained of would be considerably eased by some combination of exer­tion. self-discipline, and mouth­control. Racism serves as a sort of generalized rationalization for not trying." Compassionate souls like Krejci have convinced blacks that they have no chance of success because of outside forces beyond their control. 
According to black economist and cultural commentator, Thomas Sowell, "Perhaps the most dangerous 'favor' done to blacks has been the making of excuses for all their problems. All human beings are so imper­fect, no matter what color wrapping they come in, that to exempt any group from the standards of performance and behavior expected of others is not a blessing but a curse." 
John Shiply Butler, a black professor of sociology at the University of Texas (Austin) has written a book entitled, Entrepreneurship and Self-llelp Among Black Americans: A Reconsideration of Hace and Economics. lie writes about the movement of many blacks away from the concept of self-deter­mination and toward an atti­tude of helplessness. 
"Going back to the 1950's and the beginning of the civil rights movement, we (blacks) began moving away from business to politics. The result is that we have become too focused on fairness-what somebody is doing to us or not doing for us-and almost contemptuous of business, especially small business. As a matter of fact, a focus on rights practically forces you to think in terms of victimization. A focus on busi­ness forces you to look for opportunity." 
If they want to see true im­provement in the quality of life for blacks, civil rights leaders should stop blaming mythical racist forces and instead pro­claim a message of self-im­provement, self-responsibility. and self-determination. 
JEFF BURKS 
Freshman 
Sarin Hall 

"Everybody comes from 
the same source. If you hate another human being, you're hating part ofyourself." 
-Elvis Presley Rock 'n' Roller 

I 1 
1 
~ 
I 
~




ACCENT I 
~ 

Thursday, October 21, 1993 page 9 ~ 
•
MUSIC REVIEW COLLEEN HAGEN 
l ' 
Pearl 3am creates 
instant classic I 
1
vvith their latest release1 "VersesII 
~ 
P
earl Jam is back, Then again, Pearl Jam prides destroying the musical themselves on being different, limits they had previous-which is one reason why they Jy set with their smash debut, are so appealing. "Ten." Musically, they have begun to Following three title changes incorporate more soulful 
l 
of their newest album, the band melodies into their sound; that rose from the ashes of "Dissident" is an example of Mother Love Bone continues to this. The melody of this song is get even better with the recent haunting, and will hopefully be release of "Verses" earlier this one of the singles released from 
l
week. Pearl Jam is back and "Verses." even more powerful than be-"W.M.A." features a drum fore. solo by Dave Abbruzzese that 
Pearl Jam was formed by makes the entire song. It brings Stone Gossard and Jeff Ament up the pulse of the song and in 1989 following the break up drives the tempo throughout. of Mother Love Bone. Combined with Eddie 
Since then, they have re-Vedder's lyrics, "W.M.A." is one ceived rave reviews for their of the best songs on the album, first effort, "Ten," and for the dealing masterfully with the music they contributed to the issue of racism. "Singles" soundtrack. Pearl Jam has taken a revo-
Before the release of their !at-lutionary step in music with est album, "Verses," questions "Verses," in that the guitar arose as to whether the band parts play a secondary role in would be able to live up to the the songs. In contrast to many incredible standards set by other "alternative" songs which "Ten," and if it would even be make guitar a primary aspect possible for them (or anybody) in their music, the focus of to satisfy the media hype sur-"W.M.A." is on the lyrics and rounding the release through-the drums. out the summer. There 'are two songs on the 
With "Verses," Pearl Jam eas-album which will be especially ily satisfies all expectations set good in concert: by fans and media alike. They "Rearviewmirror" and have simply used the pressure "Indifference." Each are on op­of the media as a means of posite ends of the spectrum, creating an even better album displaying the true range of than their debut. Pearl Jam's talent. 
"Verses" is a mixture of mu-"Rearviewmirror" should be a sic ranging at times from ag-great song to hear performed in gressive, angry, heavy and concert because it contains all powerful to soulful, bluesy, and • of the elements that make a live funk. The band has matured song classic. and developed their sound to its It's fast, powerful and, musi­fullest. cally, a masterpiece. Added to 
The difference from "Ten" is all of this is a hint of suspense, impressive. Pearl Jam has be-like the listener is watching a gun to deviate from the sounds great adventure movie. of Mother Love Bone, creating "Indifference," on the other their own completely different hand, is a slow, soulful song tone of the entire album, end­ing a wholly different meaning. sound. that concludes the album on a ing it optimistically. Once the meaning is under­
They go beyond the scream-positive note. Once again, Vedder's lyrics stood, the listener will see Pearl ing guitars and pounding bass Due to the serious tone of the continue to enlighten and con­Jam trying to educate the audi­lines of "Ten" into something album's lyrics, the listener may fuse the listener. Just as the ence about some ·of today's so­much deeper that, at first, you begin to feel old and even pes­song's meaning seems evident, cial problems which are often would not expect from Pearl simistic about life, but a line or a word will prove this ignored in everyday life. "Verses" is a classic. Jam. "Indifference" lightens up the to be completely wrong, reveal-If "Verses" is any indication, 
Reading to showcase student writing 
By THOMAS KANE three undergraduate workshops in students in the university's Creative Accent Writer fiction and poetry. Writing Program, said that this con­"Graduate students tend to be cohe­test is also a chance for students to Creative writing can be a lonely sive. However, the undergraduates have their creative works made pub­
occupation: hours, days and weeks don't have the outlets," said Sayres. lic between issues of the "Juggler," spent alone in a room. staring at a The only restriction on an entry is Notre Dame's biannual creative writ­cold, blank screen, with no one that it can be read aloud within 10 ing magazine. acknowledging your hard efforts. minutes or less. Professor Sayers, who came to 
On the Notre Dame campus, howev­This is to ensure that as many writ­Notre Dame this year from New York 
er, there is a solution available to cre­ers as possible get a chance to share University, where she described her ative students suffering from these their work during the 2 to 3 hours of occupation as "full-time novelist and symptoms -the Student Fiction and the program, according to Sayres. part-time teacher," is excited about Poetry Reading. There are no categories or divisions the enthusiasm of the reading's par­
Sponsored by the Notre Dame in this contest, and there are no ticipants. Creative Writing program, the fiction prizes, save for the experience. "The ''I'm delighted that the graduate 
and poetry reading is designed to give reading itself is the prize," said students took the initiative to orga­students an outlet through which Sayres. nize this reading," said Sayres. "This their writing can be read and recog­When asked if she expected any provides a new opening for student 
nized, according to professor Valerie bizarre or off-the-wall entries in such writing." Sayres of the Notre Dame Creative an openly-formatted contest, Sayres All undergraduate students are Writing program. replied, "I hope so. It makes for a invited to submit original fiction and 
A special aspect of this year's read­vital evening when all the voices are poetry for the reading, which will be 
ing is that, for the first time in the heard from," held on Mon., Nov. 15 at 7:30p.m. in reading's two-year history, the read­Graduate student Matthew Benedict the lounge of Hesburgh Library. ing will be open to undergraduate also wants to see participation from a students; last year, only graduate stu­diverse range of students. "Hopefully The deadline for submission is dents were permitted to submit their we'll get a lot of people. It's nice to Wed., Nov. 3. Works should be sub­work. have other students. They can be a mitted to the English Department, 
"The reading gives undergraduates source of moral support," Benedict 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall. For more a chance to display their creative said. information, contact Professor Sayers writing," said Sayres, who teaches Benedict, one of thirteen graduate at 631-7160. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2
Classifieds 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 21 , 199 3 

WANTED  FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN  Need USC ticks badly: student or  ••• 2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE •••  
NOTICES  Ride back to NO alter fall break from Richmond/DCNA Beach area  TICKETS  AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN ALL CALLS  GAs for SC brothers call Rick ASAP x1352  KatieX3782  
at the end of break. Call Marc at  
Typing  634-1 089. Will help with tolls and  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  Desperately need 2 GA tickets for  FSU STUD TICKET -50 YD.  
287·4082  gas and will be forever indebted.  TIXS.272-6306  USC Game. Help make a little boy's  LINE-call Allison 273-4193-{)est  
dream come true. Call collect alter  Need BC Tickets!  offer  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  5pm (404)275-7868  x2846  
CALL 259-8684.  BACK TO SCHOOL FROM  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  4 sale 4GA Flo St best offer gets  
ILOST & FOUND I  WILLIAMSBURG, VA AREA AFTER FALL BREAK. WILL HELP WITH GAS & DRIVING. FRANK  JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. FOR SALE:  $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  called back 634-2193 BOSTON COLLEGE  
x1431.  ·sTUDENT TICKET FOR BC &  For Sale: GA's for all games. 277­ USC GA'S FOR SALE  2 GA's $200/offer  
LOST: J-Crew Barn jacket(Brown)  usc·  1659.  BEST OFFER  277-8017  
It was lost in late Sept. Please con­ HEY FACULTY & STAFF!  CALL 703-538·6~57  277-4953  
tact Mike at 634-1166 with any  Over break, how would you like to  ASK FOR BRENDAN  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DES!  FREE Billy Joel ticket for anyone  
information.  fulfill your dream of being an actor/  ·sAME DAY SERVICE•  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  willing to drive 3 lovely ladies to  
actress for a day and help me out  Chicago concert Nov. 16  
LOST-BLUE POLO JACKET IN  at the same time?! If interested,  Need 2 GAs for any home game  Need FSU stud ticket  Call x2843  
DE BARTOLO 102 FRIDAY A.M.·  call Sonia x1298 ASAP  Call Tim at 273-1757  Tim x1517  
HAS SENTIMENTAL VALUE  I NEED 2 USC GAs  
CALL KIM X3518  $$$ Extra hotel room in NO area  Need four general admission tickets  
Call Sharon 282-2965 $$$  USC Stud. Tckt.  PLEASE CALL TARA  to USC game. Call 234-7553 (day)  For Sale  
PLEASE OH PLEASE  Best Offer  AT #4975  or 234-3873 (nile). Also looking for  2 FSU student tixs  
RETURN MY 10 ASAP! LOST:LINEBACKER 10/16  FOR RENT  Raghib 4-0505  FSU.  Best offer x2673  
IL USC AND NO 10  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITI., USC &  NEEDTIX  
CALL 273-6205  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  USC FSU BC  I Need Pairs of Florida State tix  
ND/SMC EVEWS  NEED 1 USC GA. JODI273-5805  CALL MIKE X0600  Bob-273-3932  
Very Lost: A small, black leather  (219) 291-7153  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ 
bag with a shoulder strap, that con­tained a Nikon camera lens, as well  Seeking rommate to share house.  LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­6183.  I AM LUSTING FOR YOUR FSU GA'S. SATISFY MY PASSION.  FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV.5  PERSONAL  
as instructions. Not really sure  $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev.  CALL PETER, X1394  CALL WADE -0789  
where it could be ... If you have  We will purchase at handsome  Consider a life of patient love from  
seen it, please call Brian at  HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­ price four seats together for the  Mom, financial security from Dad,  
#3363. Thanks!  FAST ALLIANCE -LOCAL &  Florida State game. Pis. call (800)  FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC  laughter and music in a country  
NOTRE DAME GUESTS.  457-0486.  I NEED FLA STATE GA'S!!I  FOR SALE  home for your baby. Please call  
FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE  CALL •• 232-5030 ••  #1 vs. #2 -it's worth every penny!  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172  
STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989.  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  Call Levell at 3305-let's negotiate  anytime.  
Lost: keychain with car and apt.  24-HA. ANSWERING MACHINE.  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  I need USC tickets  
keys. II found, please call Libby  Call Dave at 1-4542  SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your  
at 287-9479  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC  Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any  high school over break as SMC  
OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  I NEED 1 USC GA NICK X1777  home game. Call Aaron @ 272­ rep? Sign up-Admission Office.  
WANTED  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $210. EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  3418  Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21 5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge.  
BUS 232-8444.  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  Rich Alumni needs 3 FSU GA's and  I STILL NEED 3-5 U.S.C. GA'S.  Adoption: Doctor and professor will  
to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career  ROOM FOR RENT.CLEAN,FRN­ 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  any BC tix. Call216-867-3473  CALL JOE @ 4-1654  make dreams for your baby come  
employment available. No experi­ SHD,CHAAMING AMTS.  true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  
ence necessary. For more informa­ 259-0219  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  MBA needs USC tix. Willing to  Need: 1 USC GA. Location not  city; summer by the beach: Your  
tion 1-206·634-0468 ext. C5584  Call Frank or John  trade BC GA's. Call Kevin at  important. Call Mike 4-4367.  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­ 
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20  1-800-7 49-5975  X4469.  place in winter, and by ocean  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­ Will trade DISNEY tickets  Need 4 GA's lor USC  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE  end 616-699-7137  Call Kim 284-5344  best education, endless love. Call  
WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN,  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  FOR SALE  Franny or Stephen collect  
EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­ FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097  STUD AND GA TIX  I failed all my midterms and my  (212)369-2597  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  able for parents on weekends. 219·  FOR ALL GAMES  life's going downhil. Cheer me up  
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  291-2899.  Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC  ANTHONY 282-2133  and sell me your FSU Stud. tix  
SEASONS. GUARANTEED  Call232-7316 from 7-8 pm.  CALL ME TONIGHT! Tom X1480  LONDON PROGRAM  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­ Executive home for lease, six  
4398 ext 31  months, $950.00 per month.  CCC CCC ( C C ((CCC CCC C C COOOOOOI I))))))) I I))))) I) II  STUD. TIX BOOK 4-SALE!!!!!!  APPLICATIONS  
Ridgedale areal Kevin Zeisz 288­ I, like everyone else in the world,  R.T. Ticket S.B. to Boston. Leave  Best Offer by the 21st. 284-4062  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  7826 Smith Zeisz Realtors 272­ need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­ 11/17, return 11/21. $200 or BO.  are due  
find out how hundreds of students  5444.  perate than all of them, though.  Call 271-1623.  5:00PM  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  FOR SALE: 2 FSU tix  Friday, Oct. 22  
and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ FOR SALE  Please call me-Diane x4253.  NEED 2 F. ST GA'S FOR RICH  Moira x1275 or Ceila x1281  $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%  
ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  Need GA's for USC  COUSINS $$$JIM 232-3807  ••FOR SALE••  
Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  call Gary x1236.  1 USC STUD. TIC.  I need FSU tickets ...  
Padre! CALL NOWI TAKE A  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  CALL MIKE x1889.  I'll trade two free airline tickets to  
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  NO ALUM needs several USC GAs.  FOR SALE: 1 USC ST. TICK  the Bahamas usable anytime during  
(800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  days includes12 meals $2791  Please call (313)953-5572 alter  2 BC GAS  2 USC GA's lor sale  the next year in exchange lor 2  
Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  7pm.  BEST OFFER X2851  FSU sudent tix or GAs.  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  Cancun from Chicago $439,,  USC stud. tix for sale  
'941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­ Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  I NEED 2 USC GA'S  Call Joe at 634-1577  
DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE  West $239, Daytona Room w/  2 FSU TICKETS NEEDED!! Will  -ANDREW X1881  My family can no longer make it  
PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386  take student or GA call Annemarie  please call Pat 634-3281  $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%  
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  at 312-404-5131 or 312-573-2143  
TOURS 1·800-426-7710  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  4 SALE: 2 USC GA'S  Two GA's to USC, FSU & BC for  FOR THE (GRAD?) STUDENT  
SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  LETS MAKE A DEAL  sale.  FROM INDIA IN SEARCH OF  
CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO NO  273-6545 AFTER 6 PM  Leave name, number & offer: 273­ SEPT. 26 TIMES OF INDIA ­ 
,'  $5. 50/hr. Need 3-4 students to conduct telephone interviews  VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  Need FSU Tickets ... along with everyone else on campus. Willing  Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted!  9805.  I found the issues you wanted alter you left being thrown out -if you  
•'  between Oct. 25 and Nov. 5. Call Maureen 631-5779, Center lor Social Concerns.  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT 284-5062  to pay$. 4-1918 NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  Please call (407)438-3697 4 SALE USC/BC STUD TIX  Need two std tickets for Florida St.  want them, call me at 634-4772.  
FOR SALE: organic comfed beef  $$$1111 CALL TOM 254-9013  CHEAP X1203 MATI  Will pay $100 per. If interested, call  HEY PHILADELPHIANS!  
whole or half, raised in Noble  277-4817  Because I know we from the city of  
Babysitter wtd. lor occes wkend &  County, Indiana and fed only pure  I NEED 2 USC GAs $ BIG BUCKS  brotherly love are so kind and gen­ 
wknts. 232-5388  com, pasture grass, mineral salt  $ CALL MIKE @ 3489  Need FSU Stu. & GA Eric x1087  erous, I know one of you out there  
with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins,  will help me out and give me a ride  
IF YOU NEED A RIDE TO QUAD  and limestone-filtered well water.  NEED USC GA's for my parents.  $#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$  home for fall break. I'll pay gas,  
CITIES /IOWA CITY FOR FALL  Custom aged and cut at Yoders in  Call Jim @ 289-6648  tolls, etc. Please Help! II  
BREA~ CALL KELLY X4270  Shipshewana, and delivered to  I need USC GAs and Student tix ..  Buy my USC stud. ticket, please.  Call PATRICK at X1628  
your door. $1.80 pound hanging  Call MUD at x2575 today I  
I NEED A AIDE FROM DC TO NO  weight, with $25 deposit. 291­ WANTED:$$$  Call Monique at 634-4273  
AFTER OCTOBER BREAK  1797 .... ."your steak in the country"  GA AND STUD TIX  THE COPY SHOP IN THE BASE­ 
WILL HELP PAY FOR  FOR ALL GAMES  $#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  NEED USCTIX  MENT OF LAFORTUNE IS  
GAS AND TOLLS  1 Plane tckt.  282-2133 TONY  Stud orGA  ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS  
PLEASE CALL EMILY  SB to Greenville/  HAVE USC GA TO TRADE FOR  x4519  FOR PART  
AT 634-2856  Spartanberg, SC  ANY FSU ERIN x2785  TIME HELP. APPLICANTS MUST  
10/22 & back  BE AVAILABLE TO WORK WEEK­ 
Seeking male roommate to share  10/31 X2485  Need GAs for USC- Help! I need a GA or male student  ENDS AND EVENINGS UNTIL  
apartment. Close to cam­ will pay big$$$$ call Aimee @2654  USC ticket. Call x2518 and ask  MIDNIGHT. COME IN ANYTIME  
pus.$215/mo+utilities. 273­ -1need GAs for the USC  ask for Jennifer.  DURING STORE HOURS TO PICK  
8187or631-5445 Michael  STAMP COLLECTION-call KJ  game-Please call Katie at  UP AN APPLICATION.  
@ 232-7838  284-5447­ Will trade roommates' credit cards  ••• FOR SALE •••  
NEED a ride from Minneapolis  and$$ for USC GA's ............ please  2 or4 FSU GAs  
to NO on Oct. 30 or 31 Please call  NEED 2 USC TICKETS  Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs  call Brian x1586.  Call Kara x2687  THE JUGGLER  
x34861  634-2856 EMILY  for family. Please call Rich X-4499  with name and offer  the Campus Literary  
FSUGA  and Arts Magazine  
2 GREAT girts need ride from  STILL HAVE DEPECHE MODE TIX  3 ST. Tix Book 4 Sale  40 yd In, row 24  will take submissions  
Minneapolis/St. Paul to NO on 10/  FOR OCT28 OR 29.GOOD PRICE.  273-4002  NEED I SAY MORE?  USC Stu. tix for sale x4022  until5:00 PM  
31 Will help with $ & entertainment  PLEASE BUY THEM! 259-0219  Tim@ 608-255-2175  Friday, Oct. 22  
call4995  in the English Office  
MOVING SALE -Mini system (dual  $$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$  FSU GA4Sale  356 O'Shag  
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  casette deck, digital tuner,  -Call Phil x3543  Need USC student tickets. Rick  Call Kevin 310-444-9923  Questions? x4-2688  
Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go  turntable, amplifyer, speakers), Air  273-5347  
FREEl Best trips & prices!  conditioner, Fans, Portable (car)  FSU GA 4 SALE. BEST OFFER  
Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica,  TV and more. Call 289-9073 or  Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for  I NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET  X2773 BEFORE 10/22.  HOT OIL!II HOT OIL! !I HOT OIL!!!  
Panama City! Great Resume expe­ 631-6688 Joseph.  up to 4 GA S.C. tix OR will buy S.C.  PLEASE CALL EMILY 634-2856  
rience! 1-800-678-63861  tix. 631-6305 or 291-4240  FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA best  
FOR SALE  NEED 2 FSU TIX  offer Erin 634-4800  will fat shirley ever return?????  
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS,  need 1 FSU st. 277-6894  STUorGA  
EARN CASH & GO FREElIf  USC STUD. TIX.  $$  NEED 2 USC GA ERIN 634-4800  NERD BOY LOVES YOUIIIIIIIIII  
Student Travel Services is now hir­ CALL MATI X1962  My cousin Frankie is coming out.  Kristi x4241  
Ing campus reps. Call @800·648·  He needs one FSU student ticket.  I need 2 GA's or Stud. Tickets for  
4849.  FOR SALE  Call Joe Russo at 234-6306.  USC. Please call4-133911111111111111  EEP OP OOP AH AH, Mike & Bean  


Thursday, October 21, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
we can compete on any given ­
Brown Following this pattern, this night with any team in the year's squad is poised to make country." another run at the tournament,
continued from page 16 
hopefully hosting a second This new spirit in practice is leadership. After taking over a round game and making the related to the superior recruit­squad that had finished a dis­regional bracket. ing that Brown and her staff appointing 9-27, Brown turned have engaged in, bringing some virtually the same personnel "Our goal coming into the of the country's best talent to into a 26-10 team that made year was to be better at the end play under the golden dome. the finals of the National of this season than we were at Invitational Volleyball tbe end of last," stated Brown, Brown's first recruiting class Championships, volleyball's whose record at Notre Dame set the tone, as Christy Peters version of the NIT. stands an impressive 72-21. and Nicole Coates decided to 
don the blue and gold. Three 
Last year, Brown nurtured "We entered the year with a years later, both are integral Jessica Fiebelkorn into a seri­bit of a question mark, because parts of the starting lineup, and ous all-American candidate as many of our starters hadn't Peters is a genuine all­
the Irish improved to 30-8, seen much playing time, but the American candidate, having earning an NCAA tournament returning players really elevat­already amassed more than bid. ed their game. In the early sea­1,000 kills and digs in her 
son, I'd say we're ahead of career. schedule." Notre Dame's recruiting for 
"Debbie came in and com­the class of '97 has already pletely turned the program reaped dividends for this years around," commented Irish squad, as freshman Jenny senior co-captain Julie Harris. Birkner has started every "I attribute our better perfor­match and is second on the mance (than in previous years) team in hitting percentage. to having a coach who makes it The rest of the Irish fab five, fun to play." including Jennifer Briggs, 
Kristina Ervin, Laura 
The Irish have enjoyed their Reckmeyer. and the injured success on the floor this season, Jennifer Rouse, are living up to racing out to their best start in their billing as the third best history. To Brown, this is a class in the nation. direct result of the rededicated work ethic of the team. "I believe that the combina­
tion of Notre Dame and Debbie "When I first came here, play­Brown is tremendous," asserted ers were set in their positions Schlick. "Debbie's background 
The Observer/Jake Peters
without much internal competi­and leadership qualities, along 
Recruiting which brings players such as freshman Jenny Birkner to
tion," said Brown. "This year, with the academics and tradi­
Notre Dame has helped the program's surge to prominence. Birkner 
we have so many talented play­tion that the school offers com­
has started every game this season. 
ers that even our practices are bine for a great entity to sell." 
competitive, and that is the recruiting visit here was great." While Karlan was a given, the environment where a team "Notre Dame was an up and inspired play of senior middle really gets better." coming program, and the acad­"I came here because of the blocker Molly Stark has come emics were solid," explained academics, knowing that a as a pleasant surprise for the 
.~,. 
"The newcomers have done a Rouse, who was touted as one Notre Dame degree would be Irish. 
The Observer/Jake Peters great job of coming in and of the best middle blockers in meaningful later on," agreed After playing sparinglySenior Molly Stark has been a putting pressure on the experi­the country coming out of high Ervin. "Also, the coaching staff behind Fiebelkorn last year.pleasant surprise for the success­
enced players," agreed Schlick. school. "Also, the team seemed was very positive." Stark has come into her own,
ful Irish this season. 
"I think we're at the point that to be really together. The having earned MCC player of 
After recruiting a talented the week honors and placing. core of players, Brown and her second on the squad with 209 staff have shaped them into kills, earning her mention for winners on the court. "I feel post season honors as well. that I came into a very fortu­nate situation with this job," Added to these veterans is the 
Did ~ou remember to make 
she said. "It was not necessari­talent of Peters, the team's
I I 
ly an established program, but superstar, and Coates, its best the opportunity was there, and athlete, allowing Notre Dame to the administration has been compete with anyone in the very supportive." country. The starting lineup has been rounded out nicely by "We were lucky to come into the addition of Birkner and the 


I Reservations?! I 
I I 
a situation where the program increasingly effective substitu­had good athletes but not the tion pattern of Harris in the corresponding success," added front row and sophomore serv­
I I 
Schlick. "Debbie was able to ing specialist Brett Hensel in
Save your table for after the 
put it all together." the back. Also, as Ervin and Briggs continue to learn the
I I
FSU .-. . Brown and company were college game, the Irish will 
indeed fortunate in coming in to have the depth of a completeI · I find this year's core of seniors, team. all of whom have made signifi­
I Pasta Mexican American I 
cant contributions to the pro­Under Brown's three year gram's progress. plan, all of the pieces have come together, and this year,1 ~ The Works Bar and Grill I Senior setter and co-captain the Irish look to reap the bene­Janelle Karlan has been steady fits on the court, as Notre Dame ~. 501 NNiles Ave I all year in confidently directing hopes to continue its winning the Notre Dame attack while ways well into the NCAA tour­
I I 237-9757 adding to her career total of nament. 4,000-plus assists, putting her If so, Brown's carefully in contention for all-American thought out plan would have a recognition. fitting conclusion to the story 
she's already scripted. 
··-------------;I 
1993-94 BE A PART OF IT! 



Notre Dame Men's Basl<etball 
Student Ticket Distribution SOPHOMORES/FRESHMEN TODAY!! JACC Gate 10 8:00 -5:00 


page 12 Thursday, October 21, 1993
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-
The History of the Citibank 

Classic Visa card and the Age of Credit 
Card Security. In the 67th year of the 20th Century A.D., Citibank intro, duced a credit card aptly titled the Citibank Classic Visa® card. Established on the premise that a credit card should offer..24 hours a day..warm, personal service, the 

Citibank Classic Visa Card marked the end of the Ice Age. And it ushered in a new era. 9f With the introduction of the first Photocard, the credit card bearing one's own photo and signature on the front, it soon became evident
.f1iJ 
For scale. 
that Man was entering the Post Paleolithic Period. First, 
Man was no longer looking like a Neanderthal, as one 
often does on more primitive cards such as the Student ID. 
This whlel. da!ed 1358 B.C. was !he (lrsL He or she could now choose his or her own photo. Second, known auempl to pill one's photo on a credit card-hw not wi/holll drawbacks. Photography by deterring other anthropoids from using the card, Man 
had not l'et been invented. It v•eighed over 50 pound.\..·ind. it did not fit easi(r into a , . .,a/let. was helping to prevent fraud. Surely this was a sign of 
advanced intelligence. 9f The subsequent rise of services was nothing less than an American Revolution. So as you might expect, Citibank would be there for you, even if your card was stolen, or perhaps lost. The Lost Walleem Service could have a new card in your hands usually within 24 hours. (You can almost hear Paul Revere crying, "The card is coming! The card is coming!") 9f When the Great Student Depression came along, Citibank introduced New Deals,special student discounts and savings. Hence, today's student can enjoy a $20 Airfare Discount for domestic flights1 (ushering in the Jet Age); savings on mail order purchases, sports equipment, magazines and music; a low variable interest rate of 1?.4%; and, no annual fee. 9f Finally, comes the day you enter the Classical Age (i.e. when you charge your pur, chases on the Citibank Classic card). You receive Citibank Price Protection to assure you of the best prices. Just see the same item advertised in print for less, with, in 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $1503• You receive Buyers Securitysm , to cover those purchases against accidental damage, fire or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase3• And Citibank Lifetime Warrantysm , to extend the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years4• Together they give you complete coverage; and with everything else ... the Age of Credit Card Security. 9f It's credit history in the making. With the help of Citibank's services and savings, you earn some of the credentials needed later on to purchase a car or even a house. 9f So call to apply. Students don't need a job or a cosigner. Call, also, if you'd like your photo added to your regu, 

/lad Napoleon carried a 1 c. t. b k Cl . v· d Th b . 1 800
Citibank Classic Visa card ar 1 1 an aSS1C 1Sa Car . e num er 1S .. .. with its Lost Ita/let Service. he CITIBANK ( 1-8QQ, 
"·ould not ha1•e heen com-­
pel/ed to hold on so ohsessiveil·to 
the wallet inside hisjacket. 248,4226), extension 
19. 9f If after reading this chapter describ, ing the prosperous conditions set forth by a Citibank Classic Visa Card, one feels that he or she has left forever the Dark Ages and has entered upon a new age, the Age of Enlightenment, then your time, as they say, has come. Destiny is calling. And so should you. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa. 

'Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. 'The Annual Percentage Rate for purchases is 15.4% as of 8/93 and may vary quanerly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%. If a finance charge is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional finance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance transaction; however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. 'Cenain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. 'Cenain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at least the min­imum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. Monarch® Notes are published by Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications company. Used by permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. 
101993 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC. 
Monarch Notes® Version: With the Citibank Classic Visa card, you can build a credit history before you reach your middle ages. And, receive special stu, dent discounts. Call today t ..soo..CITIBANK ( t ..soo..248..4226), extension 19. 

~-----~--------~---------~-~-----­
Thursday, October 21, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame beats 
Dates set for bas­

Loyola, sets records
ketball tryouts 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Notre Dame head basket­ball coach John MacLeod has 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team 
announced tryouts for the 
crushed the Ramblers of Loyola last night by
varsity basketball team. 
the score of 12-0 in a contest which saw two The tryouts will be held on 
Irish players break team records. two seperate days. On 
The victory improved the record of the third­Monday. Nov. 1, the session 
ranked Irish to 15-2. The Irish have now won will be held in the JACC 
20 of their last 22 games. Arena starting at 7:30 pm. 
Freshman attacker Stacia Masters, starting in A second session will begin only her .third game of the season, netted threeat 7 pm the next day in the goals and added two assists for a record of eight 
JACC Pit. 
points in one game. Teammates Tasha Strawbridge, a senior, and
Attention Skiers: Deposits 
freshman Cindy Daws had previously held the
for the Christmas Trip to 
record with seven points.
Breckenridge, CO. will be 
Senior tri-captain Alison Lester achieved antaken on Tues. Oct. 19 from even more monumental·accomplishment when8-9 p.m. in LaFortune, by the she eclipsed Susie Zilvitis' all-time record of 112 
information desk and on 
points. She did it in style by scoring two goals
Thursday oct. 21 from.8-9 
and notching three assists for a current total of
p.m. in Rm 127 Niewland 
118 points. Lester now has 10 goals and 13Science Hall. Deposits ($100) assists this season and 42 goals and 34 assistsdue by friday. For more infor­in her career.
mation, contact Dave Zidor at 
273-3105. 
Senior Stephanie Porter, another tri-captain,
Women's Lacrosse: 
scored three goals with one assist in her first
Practice is on Tues. and 
start of the season.
Thurs. at 5 p.m. and Sun. at The squad earned a total of 40 points, one shy4p.m. at Cushing. If you have 
of the team record. Ten different players
any questions call Emily at reached the Irish scoring charts. 
634-2856 or Michelle at 634­Freshmen goalkeepers Jen Renola and Amy2894. 
Mitchell split the shutout for the Irish. It was
SMC Varsity Basketball: 
Notre Dame's lOth of the season.
There is an organizational 
The Irish outshot the Ramblers 38-2. 
meeting on Thurs. Oct. 21 at With the win over 3-12 Loyola (0-5 in the
8:00 p.m. in the Angela 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference), the Irish
Athletic Facility. Anyone 
extended their MCC win streak to 13 games andinterested in playing should their Central Region win streak to 34 games. 
attend. 

CONGRATULATIONS! 1993 NEW HIRE MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
DORA MARTINEZ 
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM INFORMATION SESSION: NOVEMBER 4, 1993 6PM LaFORTUNE STUDENT CTR/FOSTER RECRUITING: NOVEMBER 5, 1993 
The Observer/Jake Peters Freshman Stacia Masters set a Notre Dame record for the most points in a single game with eight in only her third start of the season. 
Blue Jays beat Phillies in highest scoring game in World Series history 
By BEN WALKER  against the Phillies' struggling  
Associated Press  bullpen. The Blue Jays scored  
twice in the sixth against David  
PHILADELPHIA  West and won it against Larry  
The game was already wacky  Andersen and Williams.  
and weird, and then came Wild  Trailing 14-9 in the eighth,  
Thing.  Joe Carter singled with one out,  
And then it all came apart for  John Olerud-back after being  
the Philadelphia Phillies.  benched to make room for  
The Toronto Blue Jays some­ Molitor -walked and Molitor  
how hung on long enough for  hit a hard grounder that  
Mitch Williams to appear in the  skipped past third baseman  
midnight mist at Veterans  Dave Hollins for a two-base  
Stadium, and they whacked  error and a run.  
him. Devon White's two-run  
triple capped a six-run rally in  That meant it was time for  
the eighth inning for a 15-14  Williams, who had two wins  
victory Wednesday and a 3-1  and three saves, albeit shaky  
lead in the World Series.  almost each time, in the  
Phillies' five postseason wins.  
The Blue Jays won the high­ Williams, however, finally left  
est-scoring of 779 postseason  Philadelphia in a hole from  
games and moved within one  which it could not recover.  
victory of becoming the first  Tony Fernandez met Williams  
World Series champions to  with a single for his fifth RBI of  
repeat since the 1977-78 New  the game and ninth of the  
York Yankees.  Series, and Pat Borders walked  
Toronto will try to win it  to load the bases.  
Thursday night when Juan  Pinch hitter Ed Sprague  
Guzman pitches against Curt  struck out. but Rickey  
Schilling.  Henderson lined a two-run sin­ 
How Toronto won the longest  gle to center and White fol­ 
nine-inning game in series his­ lowed with a drive that seemed  
tory-4 hours, 14 minutes - to bounce endlessly into the  
may have been hard for· the  right-center field gap.  
Blue Jays to believe, but it was  Tony Castillo was the winner  
probably even harder for the  and Duane Ward got the last  
62,731 fans to stomach.  four outs for his second save of  
The crowd sat through a rain  the Series. Williams was the  
that did not stop, and saw their  loser.  
team start fast. Lenny Dykstra  The 29 runs shattered the  
homered twice, doubled and  Series record of 22 set in Game  
tied a series record by scoring  2 in 1936 when the New York  
four runs and Milt Thompson  Yankees beat the New York  
drove in five as the Phillies  Giants 18-4.  
built a 12-7 lead after five  

innings. 
But on a night when everyone looked like a designated hitter -Blue Jays DH Paul Molitor was back in the lineup, at third base -the big edge was not enough. 
Toronto became just the third team to overcome a five-run deficit in the Series, doing it 
Each time Toronto scored, Dykstra rallied the Phillies. He drew the first of Stottlemyre's four walks in the frrst inning ­tying a World Series record ­and came home when Jim Eisenreich walked with the bases loaded. Thompson fol­lowed with a triple for a 4-3 lead. 
page 14 The Observer • INTERHALL AND CLUB Thursday, October 21, 1993 

Keenan hopes to


Alumni drops Cavanaugh to even record 
By GEORGE NELSON Sports Writer 
With the game and their season com­ing to an end, Alumni (2-2) drove the length of the field to score the game's only points and. defeat Cavanaugh 6-0, thus clinching the final playoff spot in 
Cavanaugh's Dreyfus Guient has trouble catching a pass in an game earlier this sea­son. The lack of a passing game hurt the Crusaders against Alumni. 
the blue league. 
Both Cavanaugh and Alumni had trou­ble throwing the ball on the wet and soggy Cartier Field Wednesday night. It was a game where the team that could establish a running game and not make mistakes would win. That team was Alumni. 

The Observer/John Bingham 
"We knew with the mud that it would 
end On high note come down to the power game," said a thrilled Alumni captain Paul Zachlin. 
~~~0Jr~LLINSKI 
"Our offensive line took over down the p~....;......:.:::.;..__________-----1 
stretch and Rob (Hardison) made some great runs." 
On the game winning fourth quarter drive, Alumni's strategy was simple. Give the ball to Rob Hardison and block. 70 yards and 7 plays later, Hardison and company were in the end zone. The score came on Hardison's 32-yard misdirection run. 
For Cavanaugh (2-1-1), there were no bright spots. They fumbled once and threw two interceptions. "We were pathetic," said Cavanaugh's Jeff Hill, "But we'll bounce back." 
Fisher 6, Carroll 0 
Fisher (4-0) completed its undefeated regular season with a hard fought victo­ry against Carroll. 
Fisher's lone score came on Chris Lary's 11-yard run off a trap play. On their scoring drive, Fisher effectively mixed inside trap plays with outside power sweeps. 
Neither team could generate a pass offense due in large part because of the weather conditions. "The weather real­ly dictated what the teams could do," said Fisher's Mike Carroll, who had two interceptions. 
Carroll ended the season on a down note. but they played every opponent tough this year. 
"Carroll's a tough team that's had some bad breaks," said Fisher Coach Kazmierczak. 
For Fisher, the new season is about to begin. "We won our division," said Kazmierczak. "And now its on to the playoffs." 
After being blown out by No. 1 Morrissey 20-3 last Sunday, No. 5 Keenan looks to put that behind them as they take on No. 11 Off-Campus tonight at 8 pm at Cartier Field. 
Last week Keenan managed only one field goal against the awesome defense of Morrissey. However. the playoff­bound Knights hope to close out the sea­son on a positive note. 
They will face an Off-Campus team that are still looking to keep their playon· hopes alive. Last Sunday they suffered a setback in a 14-6 loss to Flanner. The lone score came on a 70-yard touchdown from quarterback Mike Myers to fullback Matt Carr. Off-Campus tries to defeat Keenan to set up a possible rematch with them in the playoffs. 
DiUon vs. Grace 
In the first game tonight at 7 pm, No. 8 Dillon tries to clinch the last playoff berth remaining in the gold league as they take on No. 13 Grace. 
Two years ago, the Big Red found themselves in the same situation. They were facing a winless Grace team with a chance to qualify for the playoffs and ended up losing the game in a rout. 
"That game is in the back of our minds," said Dillon captain Zach Budzichowski. 
Dillon (1-2) is coming off a 17-6 loss to a determined Stanford team which secured a playoff spot with the win. Grace will be trying to close out their dismal season with a victory. They'll be well rested coming off a bye week after playing a solid game in an 8-6 loss against Off-Campus two weeks ago. 
Rugby team highly regarded in region 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame rugby club joined the plethora of Irish ath­letic teams which are highly­ranked in their respective sports after being chosen to host the Midwest Tournament in two weeks. 
After the Irish easily handled Central Michigan 18-5 last weekend, the team received the good news about the Midwest Tournament. As a host, the Irish are considered one of the top-four seeds in the country. 
Two years ago, the Irish also hosted the tournament and won it that year. This year's squad is hoping to repeat the feat. Last year, the Irish fin­ished third at the tournament at Bowling Green. 
University of Illinois, Bowling Green and Wisconson-Steven's Point will join Notre Dame over the weekend of October 30-31. 
Matt Meko got the Irish off on the right foot against Central Michigan last weekend scoring on the first try of the game. Jamie Hill followed it up with a three-point penalty kick which gave the Irish a 8-0 advantage. Central Michigan scored to make it 8-5, but tries from Pat Shane and Kim Young put the game out of reach. 
The B-side also won last weekend defeating Central Michigan's B-side 35-0. Pat Blandford contributed two tries while freshman Brian Whalen and Mike Ahern also turned in solid performances for the Irish. 
This weekend, the Rugby team will play the Old Boys Game with alumni returning to battle the present squad on Saturday morning at 10 am. 
RIS 



EX'PRESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-UiFort;une Student Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 prn Saturday, 8:00 am -9:00 prn­
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Sunday, 9:00am -3:00p.m.
The Notre Dame Rugby Club looks for another strong season. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPlEDI 
A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD 

BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION 
THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
DEI.IVI·.R) ;\\':\ll.r\BLF 2.H-401 S 

Thursday, October 21, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
fH£ MINUTE I £1\Jft.RED niE SfoRE I GOT NERV()l)'S I W/11Tf.D IILL NO ONE WAS LOOKIN&! nlEN SNUCK OVER. AND GRAB­
BED IT. 
CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
"t.Rt I f>..~. 1-\t>.PN t>NO CONT£.1--\T. 
\ 


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Halves and 49 Off one's -­quarters (loco) 1 Mossy fuel 32 Princely Muslim 
53 "To--and a 5 Gas 33 Course bone ...": 10 Stable diet beginner Kipling 14 Cough up for 36 "I--Got 54 Some night the kitty Nobody," 1916 owls 15 Kipling's "--song 
56 Chess call 
of Morals" 37 Close by, long 
57--Rae, Sally
16 Europe-Asia ago 
Field role 
boundary range 38 Baking­
sa Finicky
17 What 54 Across 39 M.D.'s assts. 
59 Watched with 
often do 40 Bright glows in 
interest
19 Native Costa the sky, Down 
60 City NNE of 
Rican East 
41 He sometimes Dusseldorf 
20 Einstein and holds the bag 
61 River of Hesse Finney 42 Makes quite a 21 Distribute anew racket 23--du pays 44 "I--Song DOWN (homesickness) Comin' On" 
1 Spotted cavy 
24 Hoard 46 Sooner than 
2 Organic 
25 Legendary 47 Loser to 
compound
Irving locale Reagan: 1984 
3 Swift's "The Tale of-" 4 Flat building 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s To a great 
degree 6 Ughs in Ulm 1 Poet expelled 
from West Point a Frankfurt's river 90newho 
rescinds 1 o Jesse James, e.g. 11 Seed 
appendages 12 Tijuana treats 13 Coin swallower 
22 Cupid 
25 Rocky cliff 
JAY HOSLER 
AT nt£ CH~Koi.JT, r:: TRIED TO liiDE II 
UNDE.R MORE-ACCEPTABLE MATERIAL SJT 1% 61RL l3E.HIND Mt: SAIIJ IT 
AND GAVE ME ONE Of THOSE KNOWING LOOKS. 
BILL WATTERSON 
'5/J 1'\0W IM NO La~Gt.R Cat-l'KNT. II'\ IJN\-\1\I'P'(. M'i 'VA.i \'5 R\J\N't:.O. 



26 Cut of meat 41 Evita-49 Unabridged 
27 One, in Bonn 42Crammed dictionary, e.g. 43George­
28 Hollywood kept so-out 
heron ice (Babe) Ruth (arranged) 44 Raid
29 Signs of seers 51-homo
45 Related on30 Part of L.C.D. 
52 North Sea 
mother's side 
33 Dimwit feeder via 
47 Russell role 
34 Product of Belgium
48 A grandson of 
cerebration Adam ss Grads-to-be
35 Variety of chalcedony 
37 Type of battery Get answers to any three clues 
38 Bench an 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
athlete 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
40 Festive 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

OF INTEREST 

You know the feeling. 11 stays with you all your life Helping 
a friend. A neighbor. Someone in need 
That:-. what Rell Cross \'ohuHeers do 
l'VC:'J'Yda\' 
"aeCmse everyday someone neetl'ius. And we need you. We urgemly need volunteers and 
donal ions 
Plea..'ie call your Red Cross chapter roday. Ht'lp the people who help people.
+American Red Cross 


•·-'"" 







SPORTS 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Senio~ captain Mike _Pal.mer (8} ':"'ill lead the Irish into their final home game of the sea­son agamst Western llhn01s. The lnsh are riding a four game winning streak. 
16 
Men's soccer faces Western Illinios in final home game 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will look to close off their home season with a bang tonight, as they 

;~~ ..
host Western Illinois at 7 pm on Alumni Field. ~· ,
The Irish, 10-4 on the year and currently on a )four game win streak, are coming off a 2-1 Bill Lanza victory over Bowling Green on Sunday. Notre Dame goals were turned in by freshman Konstantin Koloskov, who recorded his first game­winning goal of his career, and sopho­more Bill Lanza. 
"We played pretty well, but we should have beaten them pretty badly," said Lanza, who now leads the team in scor­ing with 28 points. "We're just getting better every time we step on the field." 
Tonight's matchup will be the first ever played between Notre Dame and Western Illinois. The Leathernecks are sporting a 3-11 record so far this year, though they won their last contest over the University of Illinois-Chicago last weekend. 
Westen Illinois is led by forward Keith Pavelka and midfielder Mike Verning, 
Secret ofvolleyball's success is off-court Brown's program built on recruiting and coaching 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Editor 
They have a No. 12 ranking nationally and own an eight game winning streak. They have also beaten the third ranked team in the country, and have played the top ranked team competitively. 
They have three all-American candidates and a host of others in line for regional and conference honors. They also show an overpowering combi­nation of talent and determination that looks to propel them well into the postseason. 
In short, they are for real. . This year's Notre Dame volleyball team has exceeded every expectation thus far in attaining 
-· 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Coach Debbie Brown (left) is the main reason the Irish volleyball team has been so successful. 
Men's Inter hall Alumni drops Cavanaugh in a rainy game, while playoff bound Keenan prepares for Off-campus. 
see page 14 who share the scoring lead this season with eight points apiece. Tim Nowak, who has started eleven games so far this season, will probably get the nod at goalie for the Leathernecks. 
A solid figure on the Western Illinois sideline is head coach John MacKinzie. In 25 years, MacKinzie has compiled a record of193-173-14. 
Irish goalkeeper Bert Bader and the Notre Dame defense will hope to begin a new streak of scoreless soccer tonight. The Bowling Green goal with just 3:13 left to play in the contest ended a streak of over 370 minutes of play during which the Irish defense held their opponents without a goal. With his three shared shutouts, Bader now has 23, breaking the record of 22 set by John Milligan more than a decade ago. The Notre Dame defense is led by juniors Chris Dean and Dane Whitley. 
The offense of the Irish will be looking to capitalize on all of their scoring chances tonight, which is something they were unable to do against Bowling Green, as three shots hit the post and another one bounced off the cross bar. 
"We're on a roll, but we want to win knowing we beat the other team with authority," continued Lanza, who is hop­ing that the Irish can win decisively over the Leathernecks. "We can't just squeak by Western Illinois." 
a midseason record of 16-3, and has surpassed even the goals head coach Debbie Brown set three years ago when she took over the program. 
While the success thus far has been taken in stride by the team, outsiders are searching for answers as to why the Irish, never previously known as a volleyball powerhouse, are ascending the rankings with ease and beating teams that in past seasons they would have no right being on the floor with. 
There is no one, all-encompassing answer, but any attempt to explain this year's success invari­ably returns to one person-coach Brown. 
"When Debbie took over the program, she laid out a plan of attack for each year," explained assistant coach Steve Schlick, who followed Brown to Notre Dame from Arizona State. "She wanted a steady progression, for the program to improve each year. Her plan has proven pretty accurate so far." 
This progression has taken place not steadily, but rather in leaps .and bounds under Brown's 
see BROWN I page 11 
Inside SPORTS 
Wo~~·s Soccer Stacia Masters and the 

Irish broke some records en route to beating Loyola. 
see page 13 
.~· 
JOCK STRIP 

Powlus' injury only an accident 
In August, 
all involved with Notre Dame foot­ball got less than a glance at Ron Powlus' prospects. 

He was out before he 
Jen Marten 
could even 
c___________J 
be let in. 
We all got just a split second subliminal image. Like a pic­ture of a cold beverage in the middle of a three-hour movie, Powlus flashed in front of our eyes as a refresher to what then looked like could be a long and less successful sea­son. 
In that blink, he created a reputation for himself as one of the best prospects in the country and that is one reason why everyone wants to know: 
Who is to blame? 
After Sunday's football prac­tice when freshman sensation Powlus rebroke his collarbone, there was undoubtedly some finger pointing going on behind closed doors. 
Some might blame the team doctors who cleared Powlus to throw, but they would not have allowed him to throw until he was ready. The team doctors take the job of judging the fitness of players to play very seriously. 
One reason they have a lim­ited number of doctors who work on a specific sport is so a player can't play the medical opinion of one doctor against another. 

Some might blame Lou Holtz. Although the Notre Dame doctors thought he was ready to throw, some might think it was not without some influence from the head coach. It was pretty clear to most that Holtz was eager to have the freshman back in action, but he couldn't have been eager enough to brainwash the doc­tors. 
Soms might blame Powlus himself. Maybe he was too eager to throw. Maybe he was too ambitious. Maybe he didn't drink enough milk. 
Some might blame the media for continuing to ask Holtz when Powlus would be back. In some respects, the sports writers were ready for a new angle on the quarterback spot. Writing stories about Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla and their time-sharing was getting old. A freshman starting against Florida State could grab attention. 
Some might blame the fans for demanding even more points and better perfor­mances from the Irish offense. 
Some might blame McDougal for not taking charge of the offense and playing to the level of the opponents. 
But, none of the above deserve to be the scapegoat. What happened was an acci­dent. An unfortunate circum­stance. A stroke of bad luck. 
Rugby This year's rugby team is again one of the best in the region. 
see page 14 







