
-
-------------------------------------~-------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
1 
i 
I 
I 
The Observer I 
VOL. XXV. NO. 107 TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students'
Volunteers offer aid to Florida hurricane victims return delayed 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College felt their share of the chilling ef­fects of the Blizzard of '93 as several hundred students were unable to return to the cam­
• Storm/ page 6 
puses after spring break. 
The storm that has backed­up airports and jammed high­ways across the East Coast, has made traveling difficult for a number of students; however, since. a majority did reach the University by Monday, it was not enough to shut down the schools, according to Assistant Vice President of Student Af­fairs William Kirk. 
The Office of Student Affairs will not grant official excused absences to those students who could not overcome the bad weather and dangerous high­ways, Kirk said. Excused ab­sences, as defined by University policy, are generally granted for illness, duties performed for the University and death in the family. Harsh weather conditions are not grounds for exemption, he said. 
The Observer/David Hungeling However, Kirk explained that Notre Dame volunteers work in the fields of Florida to help Hurricane Andrew victims. A group of 15 Notre Dame students and one Saint Mary's students should not risk injury student spent their Spring Break repairing homes and rebuilding fences. in order to avoid an unexcused 
absence. "The most important thing is

By DAVID HUNGELING 
to get here safely," he said. He
News Writer 

Volunteer 
told students who called his of­fice that they should notNearly seven months after Hurricane Andrew "endanger themselves" gettingripped through south Florida, a group of 15 

becomes 
back to South Bend. 
Notre Dame students and one Saint Mary's 
The University has receivedstudent traveled to damaged Miami to help with at least 100 to 200 calls from

local 'hero'
the rebuilding still taking place there. 
students stranded on the roads, For many of the students this was their second 
By DAVID HUNGELING in the airports and at their
hurricane relief effort. Last October a smaller 
News Writer homes, according to Kirk. 
group organized by sophomore Tyler Farmer Grace Hall Junior T.C. Flem­drove down to aid in the initial clean-up. The When Craig Oliphan drove to ing spent the week with his
students were asked to return during their 
Miami last August he never ex­girlfriend in Lawreneeville, Ga., 
spring break by a local volunteer coordinator 
pected to be a local hero. just outside of Atlanta. When
Craig Oliphant and the Neighbors Helping Three days after Hurricane the snow conditions reached
Neighbors organization(NHN). 
Andrew's devastating forces their worst, the Geor­
The students flew down using complimentary 
tore through Miami, Oliphan gia/Tennessee border was shuttickets donated by American Airlines. Their food left his home in Ocathe, Kansas down completely, he said. 
and other expenses were paid for by Miami CBS and travelled to south Florida. "We've heard there are milesaffiliate Channel 6, through the NHN program. 
He was concerned about his and miles of traffic with every­NIIN is a local relief organization created by 
grandmother who owned a one trying to get north," he
Channel 6 to provide hurricane victims with 
condominium there, for had said. "People have been in their rebuilding supplies, and to help put them in still not received any word of cars three days and all the ho­contact with volunteer groups. Most of the fund­her well-being. tels are closed. They have evening for the program is donated by CBS and other Oliphan found that his called in the National Guard." 
private contributors. 
grandmother and her home Fleming said he hoped to
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's group stayed in 
were fine, but the rest of the leave Tuesday morning, butpoverty stricken Goulds Park, an area just north area was not so lucky. that he will have to wait andof Homestead. Many of the homes are still in Having witnessed first-hand see what the conditions areneed of major repair and piles of trash continue 
the destruction suffered by like.
to line the streets in most neighborhoods. 
other families, Oliphan was Badin Hall Junior Elizabeth 
see VOLUNTEERS I page 4 see HERO I page 4 see DELAYED I page 6 
Malloy to chair ACE board and serve education forum 
By BECKY BARNES tutions of higher education in­years. ing on topics such as minorities stitutions," he said. 
Assistant News Editor cluding universities, colleges, The Business Forum consists in higher education, the quality "Something would be miss­and academic associations, said of 40 business leaders and 40 of the workforce, and job cre­ing" without a Catholic per­Malloy. college and university presi­ation, said Malloy. Recently, spective, just as if a black, His­
Father Edward Malloy, Uni­dents who work jointly on they established training pro­panic or other minority view 
versity president, will serve a Located in Washington, the common concerns. In the pro­grams in Poland and Hungary. was not represented, said Mal­one-year term as chairman of ACE lobbies Congress and the cess, university officials "come loy. the board of directors of the White House on the behalf of to understand the perspective Malloy has been a member of 
American Council on Education higher education and gives ad­of business leaders and they ... the Business Forum since 1987 Malloy said he has put hard (ACE). In addition, he will vice on legal and financial come to understand the per­and currently is one of two rep­work into the two organizations serve three years on the ex­matters, he continued. spective of university leaders," resentatives of Catholic institu­and tried to establish credibil­
ecutive committee of the Busi­As chairman, Malloy will said Malloy. tions on the board. Without ity. "I hope that the appoint­ness-Higher Education Forum. oversee the activities of the Notre Dame and Georgetown, ments are some small sign that The ACE is an umbrella or­board and staff. He has been a The Forum always has four the forum "wouldn't have to the contributions I've made are ganization of participating insti-member of the Council for four or five on-going projects focus-· recognize the 230 Catholic in-being felt," he said. 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page2 Tuesday, March 16, 1992
The Observer 


-------~------------------------------..... 
Tuesday, March 16, 1993 The Observer 
page 3 



Task force urges reform 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
The task force on all-hall semi formals urged the adop­tion of six recommendations, including permission to possess alcohol in dorm hallways dur­ing dances, as part of their re­port to the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) yesterday afternoon. 
Other proposed recommen­dations were: 
• 
permission for halls to have more than two semi formals a year; 

• 
reduction of the minimum amount of money that halls are required to spend per person on food and non-alcoholic bev­erages; 

• 
reduction of the number of working days needed to process a dance request from one week to three days; 

•a 
non-alcoholic semi-formal for freshmen during freshmen orientation. 


The task force, which was formed in response to the forced cancellation of three all­hall semi formals due to their failure to garner the necessary 70 percent attendance required by the Office of Student Affairs, spent late January and early February visiting the halls and meeting with residents and based their report on this in­formation. 
The recommendations were met by the CLC with responses ranging from approval of the non-alcoholic events to the immediate disapprov~l of the proposal to drink in the hall­ways. 
"The recommendation to permit drinking in the halls is impossible for us to consider," said William Kirk, assistant vice president for student affairs and member of the CLC, "it is just against Indiana state law." 
CLC and task force members also proposed increasing the social space in dorms and hold­ing the recommended non-al­coholic events· in this area. Us­ing the LaFortune Ballroom for more non-alcoholic events and perhaps redesigning it to make it a more popular alternative, was also addressed. 
The task force, which is made up of seven students and chaired by Marianne Ravry, 1992-93 HPC co-chairperson, will revise the proposed rec­ommendations again to prepare a final report that will be released later in the spring. 
Turn 
Out 

Your Lights! 

Organizational
Meeting 

Thursday,March 18, 1993 7:30p.m. 
Old Oub Room in Lafortune 
Aristide seeks help from Clinton 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
Frustrated  by  continued  
stalemate,  ousted  Haitian  
President  Jean-Bertrand  

Aristide is seeking concrete action by President Clinton to restore him to power. 
But U.S. officials said there was no possibility that Clinton would go along with Aristide's suggestion that the administration set a date certain for reinstating the populist Roman Catholic priest. 
The officials spoke as Aristide prepared for a late afternoon visit to the White House today to meet Clinton. 
The administration has said repeatedly it places high priority on restoring Aristide to power but there is little sign that goal is any closer than it was when the administration took office. 
Administration officials had planned to brief reporters Monday on their policy toward Haiti, but the session was canceled without explanation. 
Aristide has criticized the administration for not moving more aggressively to confront the Haitian leadership. 
He has complained about the administration's use of Coast Guard vessels to prevent Haitians from fleeing the country and has said there has been inadequate enforcement of the embargo against Haiti. 
He also has called on the administration to freeze the 
U.S. assets of coup supporters and to cancel their visas. 
Under international pressure, the coup government that took power in Haiti 18 months ago agreed last month to increase human rights monitors in Haiti substantially. 
Officials at the Organization of American States, which has assumed a mediating role, said Monday there are 76 OAS ob­servers in Haiti and the figure is expected to reach 100 by the end of the month. The United Nations plans to send 100 ob­servers as well. 
Beat the Clock Tuesday! 

The Price of a 14"-Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 
Friends and family of Pas­querilla West senior Tara Deutsch will remember her as a caring, enthusiastic and so­cially conscious student who shared her love with others. 
Deutsch, an accounting and sociology major from Gig Har­bor, Wash., died of a sudden heart attack in Chicago last Tuesday. Although she had a pre-existing heart condition, the attack was unexpected, said 
P.W. Assistant Rector Michelle Ryan. 
Deutsch's father described her as "very caring, very ener­getic, and she liked to get peo­ple to smile." 
"She was such a sweet heart," said Elizabeth Wholi­han, a P.W. senior and Deutsch's best friend. "She was an excellent friend to all people, an excellent listener, and very socially conscious." 
At Notre Dame, Deutsch was a member of the Overseas De­velopment Network, the 
longer participate in physically exerting activities, "it was very challenging for her," said Wholihan. 
The funeral for Deutsch was held in Canby, Oregon where she lived until several years ago when her family moved to Washington. 
In a letter read to the family and friends attending the ser­vice, her parents wrote, "She held life in the highest regard. She always gave of herself to social causes and wanted to give the less fortunate hope to live another day ... We would ask you to take all of her loving and caring with you and to share it as she did." 
Deutsch's parents said the support offered to the family by the University has helped them greatly. "It made us feel the true Notre Dame family," said her father. 
A campus-wide service for Deutsch will be held at a time to be announced, according to Campus Ministry. 
Pasquerilla West will also hold a service some time in the upcoming weeks, said Ryan. 
Tara Deutsch 
World Hunger Coalition and the Accounting Association, and she participated in several tutoring programs. 
She was offered a ROTC scholarship to Notre Dame, which was then withdrawn when she discovered a con­genital heart condition her se­nior year in high school, said her mother. 
In high school she partici­pated in gymnastics and track and was "competitive, a team player, who didn't get down on others," said her father. When she found that she could no 
Welcome Back Students! 

LENTEN SPECIAL 
Now through 
~--oliiiiiiiiiii.....--...______.., ® Easter Sunday 
Delivering the Perfect Pizza! 
271~1177 fTl?'Ca;g;i
I Cheese Pizza I 
.-----....,...-..F_re_e_D_e_i1v_e_r_y~: $soo .Tox 
: 
I I
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. 

IOffer expires 4/11/93 ~ I Additional Toppings .95¢ each IPIIIIIJUIIIhl_..
... ______ _
INnt Valid With Any Other Coupon 
Every Tuesday 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 16, 1993 


Many of the homes Goulds Park are still in need of repair 
educational and vocational training, and was all but de­
hero 

stroyed during the hurricane. Later in the week the students
continued frBm page 1 

repaired and reshingled two"What is amazing to me is roofs in Gould's Park andthat here it is seven months 
Homestead.
later and people are still living The students said they foundwithout roofs, people are still their experience very meaning­living in shacks, people are still ful.

living in tents," said senior Rob "It was an excellent alterna­Quintos. 

tive to a regular spring break,""They are back to living in the 
said sophomore Margo
pioneer days. It's still a wreck," Burtchaell.

said Oliphant. 
Several students stressed theMost of their week was spent 

importance of realizing how
repairing a developmental een­

much work still needs to be
ter for mentally challenged 

done.
adults. This included putting in 
"It was disturbing because 
a chain link fence, replacing old not much has changed since the doors, and rebuilding a shade Fall,"added junior Dave Devine.

house for plants. 

"If anything has gone away it is 
The center provides these 

the media and popularsouth Florida residents with 
.~/~$The Castle &Co. Is Your 
New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 

• New Wolf Tanmng Beds 
• Facial Tanners 
• 
Luxunous. Clean Pnvate Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling W1th Every Lounge. 


~----------------,
Three's A Crowd... · 
Buy 2 
I
1636 N. Ironwood 
(Just south of SR23)

Get 1 I 
271.. 1433

Free I I 
Hours: 
Buy :my t\\'( 1 past:l Mon-Tues 11-9:30 
I 
L'l1trL'L'S and gl:t 
Wed-Sat 11-10 
I

the ~t\1 fnr Frl'l' Sunday 4-9:30 
I

1Dine-in only. Coupon good till4/7/93. Free dinner must be 1 1 of equal or lesser value. Not good with any other offer. 
1 

~----------------.... 
The Observer/David Hungeling 

awareness of the extent of the damage. The problems these people face everyday remain." 
"There is plenty of work left to be done," added Farmer. "We're hoping to put another group together for this sum­mer." 
G R E E I< S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
$1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE 

MEMBER WHO CALIS! 
No obligation. No cost. And aFREE IGLOO COOLER if you qualify. Call 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 

volunteers 
continued from page 1 compelled to get involved in the relief efforts. Rather than re­turn to Kansas, he volunteered to work at the local phone bank run by the Ft. Lauderdale Jaycees. He only planned to work there a "couple nights," he said. But a couple of nights quickly became a couple months. Most of the people calling the phone bank were in desperate need of roof repair, according to Oliphan. He said wanted to do something more for these people, so he began to go out and do repair jobs on his own. "We started putting plastic on roofs and it grew from there," he explained. Soon afterwards, Oliphan de­cided to stay in south Florida to continue the relief effort. lie sold the bar and grill which he owned and operated in Kansas, and his nine year old daughter Amanda moved down to be with him. He contacted several relief groups and began a network throughout the South to try to attract volunteer workers to Florida. He also solicited the help of local and national uni­versities to bring student relief groups to Florida's most devas­tated areas. 
Happy Birthday"21 II 
Mike 
Ebner 
love, Mom, Dad, Joe, Kris, Kate, Matt, and Andrew 
Oliphan became involved in the CBS sponsored Neighbors Helping Neighbors program (NHN). This program helped fund local rebuilding projects, and put Oliphan in touch with some of Hurricanes Andrew's most needy victims. 
Through NJIN Oliphan has been able to touch the lives of many people in the depressed area of Gould's Park. He has worked with members of the communily teaching them how to build, and assisting them in the acquisition of building ma­terials. 
Oliphan has also integrated the local jobless and young people into the rebuilding pro­eess. lie has become a role model for the youth of Gould's Park-most of whom are used to a life filled with drugs, crime, and poverty. 
Fred Bryant, a volunteer who works closely with Oliphan, said "without Craig this pro­gram would have shut down two months after it started." 
"It takes a special person to do what he has done," he added. 
The group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students which recently visited Miami to do re­lief work spoke highly of Oliphan. 
"He doesn't feel the need to be praised or appluaded," said Notre Dame volunteer Tyler Farmer. "lie just feels the need to help." 

Tuesday, March 16, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Senators reject effort to override veto of gun ban 
WACO, Texas (AP) _ Authori­ties are cutting off the biblical discussions that have taken up most of the time they've spent trying to negotiate an end to the 16-day-old siege of an armed sect's rural compound, the FBI said Monday. 
"What we're trying to do is get away from the continuous biblical, Seven Seals conversa­tions," said FBI agent Richard 
Swensen. "Frankly, we're not here to be converted." Branch Davidian cult leader 
Welcome Back 
David Koresh, who has claimed to be Jesus Christ, built his fol­lowing on claims he is the only one who can unleash the Seven Seals that the Bible's Book of Revelation says will lead to the end of the world. The FBI says negotiations frequently include "Bible study." 
The standoff began Feb. 28 when more than 100 federal agents raided the compound 10 miles east of here to serve search and arrest warrants on Koresh. Four agents were killed and 16 wounded in a 45-minute 
The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 
Knott Hall freshman Michelle Crouch unpacks after break. Classes resumed Monday for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
TRENTON, N.J. (AP) _An effort to override Gov. Jim Flo­rio's veto of a bill repealing the state's semiautomatic weapons ban failed overwhelmingly Monday when not a single state senator supported it. 
Sixteen Republicans and 10 Democrats voted against re­pealing the May 1990 law that bans the sale, possession and manufacture of semiautomatic firearms. Fourteen senators did not vote or were absent. 
"This really has been a vic­tory for the people," Florio said. 
"It's a good omen for the fu­ture." 
The override effort actually died last week after eight Sen­ate Republicans who previously supported repealing the law said overwhelming public sup­port for the ban had caused them to back down. 
Their defection gave override supporters insufficient num­bers to veto the bill. 
Senate President Donald DiFrancesco, who was among the eight, said he scheduled the bill for a vote anyway because, "I want to get this over with." 
The issue had dominated state politics for two years and involved often intense lobbying by Florio on one side and the National Rifle Association on the other. 
DiFrancesco and others said they wanted to show the public that the Legislature wasn't tak­ing its orders from the NRA, which contributed $269,000 to legislative candidates in 1991. 
That year, Republicans won seemingly veto-proof majorities in both houses for the first time in two decades. They promised, among other things, to repeal the gun ban, which the NRA said turned thousands of law­abiding gun owners into com­mon criminals. 
"To the degree people felt the NRA leadership had a hold on some members of the Legisla­ture, I think we've put that to rest," 
DiFrancesco said. "My vote was not based on any particular comments by the NRA. It was based on what I heard from the public." 
The Republican-dominated Assembly did vote 54-23 for the override on Feb. 25. 
NRA lobbyist Richard Man­ning accused the Republicans of turning on their friends. He said his organization would ·continue to defend the civil lib­erties of New Jersey citizens." 
Both houses of the Legisla­ture had passed a bill last Au­gust to remove the ban from all affected weapons except Uzis andAK-47s. 
Florio vetoed it in September. 
Onder the ban, all semiauto­matic rifles or shotguns not registered for target shooting were required to be sold, dis­abled or surrendered to authorities by May 1991. 
Recent state reports have put the number of existing guns at about 50,000 and said only about 2,000 of them were turned in. The NRA has said 300,000 residents who owned such weapons became crimi-
Clinton to meet Rabin 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Clinton is stepping up preparation for the expanded role the United States plans to play in Mideast negotiations. 
The president was holding his first meeting today with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel after spending a quiet Sunday at the White House. 
He ventured out once -to walk eight blocks to church in the snow and slush with his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
The meeting with Rabin "is an opportunity for the two leaders to sit face-to-face and get to know each other," White House spokesman Jeff Eller said Sunday. 
The meeting also is an im­portant step in the future of Mideast peace talks. 
The Israeli leader met Friday with Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Anthony Lake, the head of the National Secu­rity Council. Christopher said the meeting was designed to prepare for substantive bar­gaining in the negotiations with the Arabs scheduled to reopen April20. 
Christopher said he expected all the parties, including a Palestinian delegation, to at­tend the ninth round of peace talks, which several Mideast leaders have described· as a "one-time opportunity" for peaceful settlement. 
The series began more than 16 months ago, and there still are obstacles. 
The Palestinians said Israel must first agree to immediately repatriate 396 Palestinians de­ported to Lebanon in mid-De­cember as security risks. 
Farouk Al-Kaddoumi, head of the Palestine Liberation Or­ganization's political depart­ment, said last week that he doubted other Arab delegations would attend without the Palestinians "because the Palestine cause is the core of the Arab-Israeli struggle." 
Hints that Rabin is looking to compromise with Syria over the Golan Heights haV'e Israeli hard-liners jittery enough to wish him bad luck. 
"I hope he doesn't succeed," former Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of the conservative Likud coalition told Israel radio. "I don't want the American administration to accept the proposal ... that if they put pressure on us we will quickly give the Arabs the Golan and Gaza." 

firefight. As many as 10 cult members may have been killed and several were believed wounded. 
Koresh has told negotiators 17 children and 88 adults re­main on the compound. Four adults and 21 children have left since the siege began. 
Swensen said two people who left Friday told Koresh on Sun­day they were being treated well and advised him to come out. But "none of these conver­sations appeared to move any 


Stop in at the official St. Patrick's Day Headquarters 
Tomorrow night 9-2 
must be 21 
of the occupants inside the compound any closer towards resolution," he said. 
U.S. District Judge Walter S. Smith Jr. on Monday rejected DeGuerin's request to have ac­cess to the compound. 
"One simply cannot point a gun (literally or figuratively) at constitutional authority and at the same time complain that constitutional rights are being denied," Walter wrote in his­decision. 
FBI end 'biblical discussions' in Waco 

page 6 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 16, 

Americans suffer losses in 
Relief promised 
• Record low

Blizzard of '93 
"\''V" temperatures

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
Some facts and figures on the storm that
wake of storm 

dent Clinton is promising to act 
paralyzed the South and East Coast: 
USnowfall total 

quickly on requests for federal 
WASHINGTON -(AP) Individuals nationwide were hard-hit by 
---....·-..-...........
relief from states struck by thethis weekend's storm. 
late-winter blizzard that para­
0 DEATHS: At least 115
Rescuers failed to find 24 hikers missing in the snowy southern 
lyzed much of the eastern 
e POWER LOSSES: More
Appalachians on Monday after dozens of others trudged through 
United States. 
than 3 million at height of
deep drifts to safety. Highway crews strained to reach thousands 
storm. More than 900,000
"We had people in every state snowbound at home and in shelters by the weekend blizzard. and 
remained without power
yesterday so I think we'll bethe death toll rose to 167. 
Sunday, including
In addition to the deaths, 32 crewmen were missing after a ready," said Clinton, who 
250,000 in Alabama,
freighter sank Monday off Nova Scotia, and 16 mariners were walked eight blocks to church 
200,000 in Georgia.
missing in waters around Florida. · Sunday in 26-degree weather. ·~ 
0 AIRPORTS CLOSED:
Most major airports moved back toward normal operations. but Clinton awarded federal as­1 
Almost all were closed 
because of delays in the East. "Normal won't be here until 
sistance to 21 Florida counties trom Atlanta north at the Tuesday or Wednesday," said Mary Fagan of American Airlines at height of the storm.
Saturday. 1Chicago's O'Hare Airport. 
"I called a number of other L------~---~·~~::::::=~-...--~1' 
Commuters in big cities struggled to get to work. "Getting to the 1 
governors yesterday," Clinton ~----\______,train station was an event in itself," said suburban Philadelphia said Sunday. ''I'm going back ~ .1------=:::!.,:w
commuter Mark Cotterman, 32. "It was all packed down. There now to get a situation reportwas hardly any traction at all." Many Pennsylvania businesses. 
from the other states, and we'llschools, courthouses and state and local offices remained closed 
Monday. 

process them all immediately Hundreds of thousands of customers still had no electricity, -as soon as they're ready and leaving many without heat while temperatures were in the single 
(the states) ask." I1 digits and lower. During the height of the stonn Saturday, more 
Federal government offices in; than 3 million homes were blacked out. 
Washington were opening as · 
Texas 
A deep freeze that followed the storm was estimated to have 
usual today, but employees with caused millions of dollars in damage to Southern crops, from 
non-essential jobs were told 
tomatoes to tobacco, blueberries to peaches. Florida crews rushed they could take the day off if to harvest a large crop of oranges that gales knocked to the 
they couldn't get to work.
ground. 
storm 
continued from page 1 
Heinrich was planning to fly Sunday night from her home in West Newbury, Mass.. north of Boston. The area was hit by the blizzard Saturday around noon, she said. 
ult didn't stop snowing until the middle of the night on Sat­urday. We got a foot and a half of snow in addition to the foot and a half of snow that was al­ready on the ground," Heinrich said. ult was a mess to begin with." 
Heinrich's flight was can­celled, and due to all the back­up, she could not get another flight until Tuesday morning. 
ul haven't left the house in 48 hours-except for shoveling," she said. 
But some students didn't know how bad the weather conditions actually were until they got on the roads, tried to get baek to school, and found themselves stranded. 
The Notre Dame crew team experieneed similar difficulties. 

The team spent the week training in Tampa, Fla. Return­ing to the campus, the team split up into two vans, a trailer and a bus. Each vehicle left at different times on Saturday, ranging from noon to 10:30 p.m. 
Both the vans and the trailer made it back around 6 a.m. Monday. As of 9:30 p.m. Mon­day, the bus carrying about 40 team members was still in Kentucky and would likely be on campus by midnight, ac­cording to Tim Sosnowski, team riggerman. 
Whether they called the Uni­versity or not, delayed students are responsible for contacting their professors or department heads to explain their situation. Though Kirk said he could not speak for other individuals, he expects that the ufaculty will be real accommodating." 
Though the Office of Student Affairs cannot grant excused absences, it will help incoming students in any other way that it ean, according to Kirk. This includes "cutting through red tape with airlines" and "offering emergency help," he said. 
As of 5:30 p.m. Monday, no accidents involving Notre Dame students had been reported. 
Source: AP Research, AccuWeather, Inc. AP/R. Taro 

for everyone interested in running for §~ud~uu~ §~UU(Ql~~ or Oifff=CQlmpu~ Pu~~~d~uu~ 
Tuesday, March 16th 
7:30 Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
page 7 

Tuesday, March 16, 1993 The Observer 
New treatment reduces Hilary cnrii9n'';~d'rks,for health Carl'gqj!l£?..·.···....,....,-~······ .........
risk of heart attack 
ANAHEIM. Calif. (AP) -Big changes over the past decade in how doctors take care of heart attack victims appear to be paying off dramatically. 
Heart attacks are still the No. 1 cause of death in the United States, where they will take about 500,000 lives this year. 
But a new analysis suggests that the many new drugs and procedures that came into rou­tine use in the 1980s have per­haps doubled the chances that someone who makes it to the hospital with a heart attack will survive. 
"lt suggests that all of these 
things do a little good, and they 
all add up to a lot of good," said 
Dr. Mario Talajic of the Mon­
treal Heart Institute, who led 
the study and presented his 
findings Monday at a meeting of 
day as she settled in on Bill andY .. Am(lrlca's>national health con•
This lethal disruption of the 
.,.,,,·mt;:t?f,,. ·.. ·:::>Sktt;:::. :%:,~;,_ 
fidante ..:! part policy wonk, par; sympathetic mom, part J~~er: ·..· 
·\'Vheiever she goes, she ah­sorbs a lot more· information t~al), she gives out, offering only broad ideas Qf where ber t~am is headed in. its drive to draft a hi;ialth plan by May. .. . .·. , ~farm ramiU~$she gave .. . ul listening ear. shakingber h~ad the high premiums 
US to reduce North Korea nuclear force 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Wor­ried that North Korea might have enough nuclear material for a bomb, the Clinton admin­istration is playing good cop, bad cop in an attempt to re­verse Pyongyang's rejection of international nuclear controls. 
North Korea's decision last week to withdraw from the Nu­clear Non-Proliferation Treaty presented the Clinton adminis­tration with its second major foreign policy crisis. 
As was the case last week when tensions in Moscow rose over the clash between Russian President Boris Yeltsin and his rebellious parliament, this lat­est standoff on the Korean Peninsula highlights the poten­tial problems of Clinton's plan to reduce defense spending in an increasingly unstable world. 
For now, the operative word is caution. The United States, working with the world's major nuclear powers, is telling North Korea that it's not too late to reverse itself and let interna­tional inspectors visit two mili­tary sites where the United States suspects nuclear-related facilities are hidden. 
Saying Monday that he was "very disappointed" with the Marxist government in Py­ongyang, Clinton nonetheless held out that "there are several weeks ahead when North Ko­rea might reverse its decision, and I hope they will do so." North Korea's decision only takes effect at the end of May. 
The International Atomic Energy Agency is meeting later this week to discuss North Ko­rea's abrogation of the treaty that Pyongyang joined in 1985, although U.S. officials say that at most, the Vienna-based IAEA would take its case to the U.N. Security Council. 
North Korean has accused the IAEA of doing U.S. bidding in pressing for more inspec­tions in North Korea. The agency had given North Korea until late this month to allow inspections of two sites suspected of harboring nuclear bomb-building material. 
On the diplomatic front, the United States concedes its leverage is limited. North Ko­rea is already one of the most isolated countries in the world, and the United States doesn't have diplomatic or trade links with Pyongyang to use as a carrot or stick. 
U.S. officials are hoping China and Japan can wield some influence with North Ko­rea. China is the North's closest ally and Japan its most promis­ing trading partner. 
"We will have to examine that and see how the situation develops," Secretary of State Warren Christopher said. 
North Korea already has de­clared a "semi-state of war" and ordered its 1.1 million-man army on full alert, citing the annual 10-day maneuvers that began last week. South Korea's defense minister also put his country's 650,000 soldiers on alert. 
"Everyone has to go carefully because there's lots of room for misunderstandings and the peninsula is very heavily armed," said Joe Bermudez, an expert on North Korea's military . 

the American College of Cardiology. 
He reviewed the fates of 100 people who were brought to his hospital with heart attacks in 1980 and 100 who were admit­ted in 1990. In 1980, 22 per­cent had died of heart disease within a year of being hospital­ized. A decade later, this had fallen to 10 percent. 
A major cause of the better outlook was less cardiac arrest. 
ANKENY, lowa (AP) -She furrows her brow. SM.nods her head knowingly. She takes copious notes, · filling big binders wit}),. important wdk;;. ings. ' 
Hillary Rodham Clinton is like a giant human sponge on the hustings, soaking up the stuff ot health care froll! .medical experts and common folks as she travels the countryside. cfl'''j:j';:L, "What I really want to do is listen.'' Mrs. Clinton said Mon-
public hearing in Ankeny about 
w}l~~j~wrong,,with t}l(:lmedi~al 
system. squeezing in a series'of television interviews during lupq,9~., .. :I:i:. . ··.· 
Lasfweek it was Florida, this week it's Iowa. next week it will be Michigan. She's President Clinton's trav(lling preacher on the gospel of health care re­fonn. ' . A$ head of the White House ta(>k. force on health reform, 
Mrs. Clinton is becoming 
heart's rhythm struck 17 per­cent of the patients in 1980 but just 5 percent in 1990. 
The risk of dying from heart disease has been falling since the 1970s, and better living habits, such as giving up smoking and eating sensibly, probably play a role. But the study suggests better care also is a significant factor. 
Evelyn Lehman's living room: sofa to hear about the health care woes of Iowa farm fandll~s gathered in the community 9.f Slater. · 
And listen she did. undeterr. by a swarming throng •·. camera crews and reporters studyillg her every move front ..... the confines of the Lehman kitchen. . 
TMn it was on to a le 



ENTRANCE MUSIC 
FOOD 
REFRESHMENTS 
featuring: ACCESS DENIED 
time: 9:00 pm -midnight 
location: LaFortune Ballroom 

VCR Gift Certificates (to dinner 
at favorite local restaurants) 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 

STIJDENT UNION BOARD 
• 
Business 
page 8 Tuesday, March 16,1993 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

AMEX agrees to sell Shearson brokerage firm 
•NEW YORK-American Express agreed to sell its Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. retail stock brokerage to Primerica Corp. for about $1 billion in one of the biggest deals ever involving a securities firm. Shearson, a leading Wall Street firm, will be combined with one that is a fraction of its size, Primerica.'s Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Inc. The new company, to be called Smith Barney Shearson, will have at least 10,500 brokers, 500 branch oflices and at least $105 billion in assets under management at the outset. 
Wholesale prices raises inflation worries 
•WASHINGTON-Prices paid by wholesalers jumped 0.4 percent in February. the worst in more than two years, the government said, rattling financial markets with new worries about inflation. Analysts were expecting a milder 0.3 percent rise in the Labor Department's Friday report on the Producer Price Index. which measures prices paid to producers such as factories and farms. Inflation fears awakened by the report ended. at least for now, the drop in long-term interest rates that had brought tixed mortgage rates to 20-year lows of less than 
7.5 percent. 

Economists encouraged by stable inventories 
•WASHINGTON-Businesses managed to keep inventories stable in January despite the first drop in sales in five months, the government said. Economists said Friday the 0.2 percent sales decline following a large 2.1 percent gain in December wasn't alarming. And the fact that the backlog of unsold goods hold level at a seasonally adjusted $840.4 billion was a good sign for the future, they said. It means factories won't have to cut back on production to keep inventories in line with sales. 
Clinton turns heat on European EC · 
•wASHINGTON-The Clinton administration turned up the heat on Europe by abruptly canceling a negotiating session aimed at resolving a trade dispute between the United States and its largest trading partner. U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said Friday it was now very likely that threatened trade sanctions against the 12-nation European Community would take effect on March 22. The sanctions would bar European firms from bidding on U.S. government contracts for utility projects and services. 
Japan barely emerging from recession 
~OKVO-Japan's economy edged out of recession in the last quarter of 1992. but slumping domestic consumption limited the growth' to an annual rate of just 0,5 percent, the Economic Planning Agency said. But economists said Friday the expansion didn't necessarily bode well for the economy because most came from exports and growing inventories. Domestic consumption of Japanese-made goods as well as imports fell as consumers tightened their wallets, the agency said. 
Loss of Lopez severe blow to GM 
DETROIT (AP) -In the sec­ond dramatic turnaround in days, General Motors Corp. announced today that its pur­chasing chief, who was credited with paring $1 billion from the ailing automaker's auto-parts budget. was leaving. 
Chief Executive Officer Jack Smith said he had intended to use a news conference to an­nounce J. Ignacio Lopez de Ar­riortua was staying with GM. But he said Lopez was leaving instead. 
"Unfortunately, Dr. Lopez says he would not stay with GM," Smith said. Lopez was not at the news conference. Smith said he didn't know what Lopez's intentions were. 
Lopez had left the giant au­tomaker Thursday. and Euro­pean automaker Volkswagen said it had won his services. But over the weekend, GM said Lopez was staying after all. He reported was getting a hefty promotion for staying, including being put in charge of GM's North American Operations. 
Smith said as late as this morning he intended to an­nounce he was making Lopez president of North American Operations. Instead at 1 p.m., he said a friend of Lopez's handed him a written note that Lopez was resigning again. 
"There was no further ex­planation," Smith said. 
Volkswagen spokeswoman Maria Leonhauser said Sunday that Lopez, 52, had signed a contract with the German au­tomaker. Volkswagen had ear­lier issued a statement saying Lopez's appointment had been delayed because of "continuous intervention" by GM and its board of directors. 
Before the latest announce­ment, unidentified GM execu­tives quoted in Monday's New York Times said GM persuaded Lopez to remain by increasing his power over manufacturing operations. The paper said de­tails of his expanded power would be revealed at Monday's news conference. 
Lopez' cost cutting was seen as crucial to GM's effort to re­turn to profitability after losing billions of dollars in recent years. 

Base closings tied to state economies 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­fense Secretary Les Aspin says he considered the impact on lo­cal economies in recommending base closings that will change the face of the armed forces and affect dozens of communities nationwide. 
Aspin and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Colin Powell were testifying today on Capitol Hill before the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission, an independent panel with the power to modify the proposed closure list. 
Aspin, acting on the sugges­tions of each service, on Friday proposed closing 31 major mili­tary installations and realigning or scaling back 134 others. This third round of base closings is part of the process of trimming post-Cold War military strength to 1.4 million personnel by 1997, down from the Reagan­era force of 2.1 million. 
Navy installations dominated this round of closures, and coastal states such as Califor­nia, Florida and South Carolina were among the hardest hit. 
Aspin said Sunday that he spared two northern California facilities, McClellan Air Force Base near Sacramento and the Army's Defense Language In­stitute in Monterey, because of the economic hardships on the region caused by the new clo­sure list and previous base closings. 
"I promised as part of this base-closing effort to look at the cumulative economic impact," Aspin said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Six of the 31 facilities to be closed, including the Oakland Naval Hospital and Naval Sup­ply Center. the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, the Alameda Naval Air Station and Naval Aviation Depot and the Trea­sure Island Naval Station in San Francisco, are in northern Cali­fornia. 
Among other bases to be closed are Homestead Air Force Base in Florida, Charleston Naval Shipyard in South Carolina, the Staten Island Naval Station in New York, Fort McClellan in Alabama and the K.l. Sawyer Air Force Base in Michigan. 
The eight-member commis­sion has until June 30 to accept or modify Aspin's suggestions before forwarding the list to President Clinton and Congress. which may accept or reject the package as a whole but cannot change it. 
In announcing the list, the Pentagon said the choices were made based on military value, the extent and timing of poten­tial costs and savings and the impact on loeal economies and the environment. 
Clinton, who is seeking to re­duce military spending by $122 billion over the next live years. promised Thursday to help ease the local impact with a five-year $19.6 billion defense eonversion plan. 
Most of that money will go to help defense companies, their workers and military service members who are losing their jobs. Aides estimated that about $350 million to $400 million will be in the form of direct aid to communities. 

Hong Kong's economic future in doubt 
HONG KONG (AP) -In a stinging speech felt thousands of miles to the south. Chinese Premier Li Peng on Monday accused Britain of trying to fo­ment unrest in Hong Kong be­fore the territory's transfer to China in 1997. 
llis voice rising with anger, Li said Gov. Chris Patten "perfidiously and unilaterally" crafted proposals to alter Hong Kong's election system that vio­lated previous Sino-British agreements. 
Li told applauding delegates at the opening session of China's legislature in Beijing that Patten's democratic re­forms were "designed to create disorder and to impede the smooth transfer of power." 
Li's remarks. an unprece­dented attack on a foreign leader, contributed to panic selling on Hong Kong's financial markets and heightened anxieties about the power struggle between the colony's present and future sovereigns. 
The primary barometer of lo­cal confidence, the blue-chip liang Seng Index. plunged 6.1 percent at the opening of trad­ing Monday after skidding in the final minutes rriday. It elosed down 5.1 percent Mon­day. its lowest level in a month. 
Many businessmen, particu­larly those with China interests, have urged Patten to abandon his plans to expand the elec­torate for the local legislature and preserve the status quo in order not to imperil one of Asia's leading financial centers. 

But Patten raised the stakes Friday by announcing that the British colonial government would press ahead alone with his proposals because of China's refusal to resume negotiations. 
China responded to the publi­cation of Patten's proposals in the government gazette -the first step of the legislative pro­cess -by unleashing a stream of invective against Patten, cli­maxing Monday in Li's work report to the National People's Congress. 
Britain said Monday it will not bow to Chinese demands to bar Hong Kong representatives from new talks about the han­dover of the colony in 1997. But Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd adopted a conciliatory tone in a statement to the House of Commons and said Britain was ready to start talks at any time with China's Com­munist government. 
Although China has promised Hong Kong "a high degree of autonomy" after the takeover, Beijing vehemently opposes Patten's democracy package because it fears more freedom here would give ideas to main­land Chinese. 
Beijing has hinted at setting up a shadow government for Hong Kong to undermine the authority of the British colonial government before the 1997 handover. It has also threat­ened to void all business con­tracts signed by Hong Kong without Beijing's blessing. 
Although Li told delegates Monday that China sought co­operation instead of confronta­tion with Britain, he empha­sized that Beijing would "never barter away principles.... The only solution for the British government is to change its course." 
Hurd, supported by opposi­tion parties, said Britain had a responsibility to "maintain the steady progress toward democ­racy" in Hong Kong until 1997. 
"We are open to discussions about how to achieve that," he said. "But the key point is that the electoral arrangements in Kong Kong should be fair, open and acceptable· to the people of Hong Kong." 
The protracted impasse has unnerved a colony of 5.6 million people that got its first taste of democracy in 1991 when voters chose 18 representatives to the 60-member Legislative Council. 
Clinton approves British-USAir deal 
WASHINGTON (AP} -Over­USAir planes and crews on riding objections from the na­some flights. tion's largest airlines, Presi­The Big Three airlines dent Clinton has approved a viewed the deal as a threat to $300 million investment in their dominance of lucrative USAir Group Inc. by British international traflic. Airways PLC, an The two airlines had been administration official said negotiating for months on a today. deal designed to give finan­
"They (USAir and British cially-strapped USAir badly Airways) basically get what needed cash. they want," the official said, Originally they proposed a speaking only on condition of $750 million deal, but that anonymity. proposal was aborted in De­
Transportation Secretary cember after complaints from Federico Pena was expected to other U.S. airlines that the announce the decision today. proposal would have given 
USAir had argued that $300 British Airways a 44 percent million was what it needed to stake in USAir and veto power stay alive. the official said. The over its major business official said other carriers decisions. probably now would turn to The two airways then· an­foreign partners for capital to nounced the smaller deal in help them stay in business. January. 
In the closing days of the U.S. law limits foreign in­Bush administration, the Big vestments in American carri­Three airlines -American ers to 25 percent and prohibits Airlines Inc .. United Airlines foreign control. Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc. -The deal approved by the effectively blocked a $750 mil­two airlines in January would lion deal that would have given provide British Airways with British Airways a major voice three seats on the 16-member in the operations of USAir. USAir board. It also would give 
The $300 million deal falls British Airways "feeder traffic" short of giving British Air ma­from dozens of American cities jor control of USAir, but it does served by USAir while funnel­join some flight schedules and ing passengers from Britain to call for British Airways' use of USAir. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor...•...•. Meredith McCullough AdvertlslngManager ..... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Edltor...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ... ,. .................. Jake Peters OTS Director................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinio~ of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor. V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Football ticket policy should be changed 
undergraduates were assigned
the season to win against Penn 
Boston College's stadium holds amount to an increase of only games apiece) is no longer an 
rows down to field level. Stu­
State. Yet this source of joy is 
only 50,000, and their student $1.50 per game per patron). unconquerable logistical 
dents just have to stop rushing
injured and even endangered 
season tickets cost $42, or $7 Also NBC television money nightmare. At the very least we 
the field. If you must, walk
by some features that NO fans 
per game. (Individual tickets could be used to subsidize stu­should be able to return 
down the aisles, narrow though
accept as a matter of course. 
were also available to ·students). dents without charging other individual game tickets from 
they are; don't push through
The first feature is ticket 
My alma mater, Rutgers Uni­ticket-holders. But as things our season package to the ticket 
people tottering on benches.
price. For the 1992 season, 
versity, will be a NO football are, $12.50 per game is out­office for a refund. 
However, if such melees con­
Notre Dame students paid $75 
opponent sometime within the landish for a non-transferrable Excessive ticket prices merely 
tinue, I am afraid that crowd
for season tickets to six football 
next four years, and under­student ticket. Since we already overshadow football games, but 
safety would force a decision to
games, the only ticket option 
graduates get individual game pay so much, I'd, rather pay other unfortunate features of 
abandon the cathedral that
offered to us. The outlandish­
tickets for free. twice as much (full face value) Notre Dame football are 
Rockne built for some new safe
ness of this is made evident by 
That is a sample of ticket pol­for general admission tickets -intrinsic parts of game at­
but soulless arena. The addi­
checking the student ticket sit­
icy at other large Division lA ones that students could pool tendance. The first is standing 
tional revenue an 80,000 seat
uation at NO opponents. For in­
schools. This makes clear that together to bring our parents, on the benches. Even the 
stadium would bring is tempta­
stance, at USC student season 
Notre Dame can offer a cheaper sisters and brothers and other Olympic gymnastic team would 
tion enough for our avaricious
tickets cost $65 or $13 per 
and more flexible ticket friends to a game -honestly. be annoyed if they had to stand 
administration; I would hate it
game. Yet this was for a card 
package. With demand so high, The other thing is the inflex­on the balance beam for three 
if student behavior would give
that admitted students to other 
it would be wise to continue to ible season ticket policy. Only hours, yet we do that at every 
them the pretext to yield to it. 
USC sporting events, and stu­
charge for tickets to increase season tickets have been home game. If everyone stood
dents could buy individual game 
the chance assigned seats are available to students since the on the concrete, everyone
tickets for outside the normal 
used seats. But why not $5 per late 50s. Thirty-five years later, would see as well, yet could 
Barbara Bal/asty is a gradu­
student section. 
game? The other 49,000 people computers should mean that shift their weight and not worry 
ate student in the philosophy
Some would scoff, claiming 
holding tickets make up the selling individual tickets (or about their balance. 
department at the University of
this is possible only because 
$7.50 difference (it would even in packages of three At the BYU game, the stu-
Notre Dame.
USC plays in the Coliseum. Yet 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

AUX., 1?11? BJM&­7H!Nf3 HAPPEN IN 5CHCXJI., 7Dl:¥J.Y? 
I 

... ANPAU TH/3 077-1!3/< 1</l?S /AU6HE/)ATMt.' A TtiJ.CIIt:R /5N'TGlJPFfJSW TO{)() 7lfATANY/r!ORE.' MOMMY SAID! 
7H&Y'I?£ 5tJP­
fVSI3[) TO Bl3FAIR. 706/RL/3.'
I 

WHEN'S Ct!NTVN 
60/N670 
Re-TRAIN 
Mf<fa-J/P? 
H~PROM­
IS6P.' 
I 

"Any which way you are tempted to roam, it's a long, long, long, long way to go home." 
Vince Welnick 

All flights have been cancelled, sybmit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
Celebrating St. Patrick's Day
Folksinger Charlie King sings message of justice 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON Assistant Accent Editor 
As part of the week long cele­bration of Saint Patrick's day, today will be one of singing lyrics of joy and hope for peace by renowned American folksinger Charlie King. 
King is a successful, awarding winning performer. He has both the gift of capturing his audience by making them laugh and encouraging them to sing along with him, yet carries a serious social message about the necessity of working towards justice for all at the same time. 
"When I get up to do a concert iny primary goal is to entertain," said King. That's why I'm able to make a living at this. People who come to the concert are not going to get my political perspective on the world. They're going to get a series of stories that are funny or touching or entertaining." 
King is in his mid-forties. After working on Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign he became a conscientious objector to the Vietnam war and then became involved in the Catholic Worker Movement. King does not foresee any weakening in the need for a songwriter who focuses on the injustice in the world. 

"When the highest public morality in the land is 'I earned it, I get to keep it,' I think we're in a lot of trouble," King said. "And I think that's exactly where we are." 
Writing songs about political and social topics has been King's profession for the past two decades. His songs have been performed by such artists as Pete Seeger, Holly Near and Arlo Guthrie. King has produced ten albums in all, seven on his own and three with the Cabaret troupe Bright Morning Star. 
One example of King's satirical political songs is when he makes fun of former president Reagan by singing, "Is this a western? Banditos stole our canal I Did you say Ollie North? Spittin' image of John Wayne, my old paV Was that Grenada or the OK Corral?" 
The Center for Social Concerns is a co-sponser of the Irish events taking place this 
A Week of Irish Events March 14-19, 1993 
Sunday, March 14th, 7:15p.m. 
Sunday Vespers, Sacred Heart 

Lenten Sunday Vespers in the Lady Chapel of S Heart Basilica Sacred Music of the Notre Dame Folk Choir; Fr. Willie Purcell, Kilkenny. Ireland, Presider 
Mondav, March 15th, 4:15p.m. 
Lecture at the Peace Institute 

Hesburgh Center Auditorium "Strategies for Peace; How the Irish Church Deals with a Generation of Violence" Fr. Willie Purcell. Priest of Kilkenny, Diocese of Ossiry and former Associate Director of the Irish Catholic Youth Council 
Tuesdav, March 16th, 12:15p.m. 
A fireside C!iat: Peace Songs ofAmerica and Ireland 
Notre Dame Room. LaFortune Student Center Charlie King, Folksinger, along with Willie Purcell Here Charlie King and Willie Purcell express in music hopes for justice and peace Lunch is provided! Come listen and enjoy 
Wednesday , March 17th, 5:00 p.m. 
Mass on the Feast ofSt. Patrick 

Basilica of Sacred Heart All of the music for the today's liturgy is by Irish composers , performed by the Notre Dame Folk Choir. Fr. Willie Purcell, Presider 
Thursday, March 18th, 12:15p.m. 
A Follow-up discussion 

Hoom C't103 Hesburgh Center Auditorium A chance to engage in discussion about the issues of peace facing Ireland and Northern Ireland. Moderated by Fr. Purcell 
Sponsored b.ll Joan B. Kroc Institute for 
International Peace Studies. Campus Ministry, 
Multifultura Executive Council. and Center for 
Socia Concerns. 


~--· 

Thomas Hahn Charlie King will perform today at 12:15 p.m. in LaFortune and tonight at 7 p.m. at the Center for the Homeless. 
week. There will be an performing folk songs on cam­emphasis on justice and peace, pus this week. said Jay Brandenberger, King and Purcell,in their per­coordinator of Justice and formance, will express Peace Education. King will sing American and Irish hopes for with Fr. Willie Purcell from justice and peace in their Kilkenny, Ireland at the Fireside music. The Saint Patrick's Day Chat in LaFortune tomorrow at holiday presents a pertinent noon . Purcell is a force in the backdrop for songs involving peace movement in Ireland and Irish and American questions of will be speaking and peace, however, the topi~ of 
Irish heritage is only minimally discussed, said Brandenberger. King will be performing at 
12:15 p.m. in the Notre Dame Hoom of LaFortune, and tonight at 7 p.m. at the Center for the Homeless in South Bend where a $5 donation is optional, 
as  well  as  at  selected  
Psychology  and  American  
Studies classes.  


Purcell gives "Strategy tor Peace" 
ByJOHN LUCAS Accent Writer 
The only way to break the cy­cle of violence and hatred be­tween warring factions in Northern Ireland is to continue to increase education and programs for the youth of the war torn area, according to Father Willie Purcell, assistant pastor of the Sacred Heart Church of Kilkenny, Ireland 
"Right now, we're involved in trying to foster some sense of understanding in the youth, be-­cause that's where the future lies," Purcell told a Hesburgh Center audience yesterday. 
The central conflicts in the area involve the longtime hatred between Catholics and Protestants and the antagonizing presence of the Irish Republican Army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, according to Purcell. Documenting atrocities on both sides, Purcell explained that few people in the area have avoided being touched by the terror of the violence gripping the area. 
Citing an Aug. 14, 1969 mas­sacre of civil rights marchers in the city of Derry as the begin­ning of the unrest, Purcell ex­plained that the initial violence was an explosion of hatred be­tween Irish and English that can be traced the potato famine that killed thousands of Irishmen and forced millions to emigrate to other countries. 
"People who were there that day have told me that you could sense it was the beginning of something of something that would take a long time to sort itself out," he said. 
Purcell traced the history of the violence from the Derry massacre to the infamous "Sunday Bloody Sunday" mas­explaining that many hatreds and prejudices have become deeply rooted in the histories of families and communities. 
When a family member is killed by the "other" side, the cycle of anger and violence transfers on to another genera­tion, according to Purcell. 
"The violence is almost bred into the children... it is very difficult to break the bricks and 
'It's a very emotive time-your heart and spirit is crying out in anger, but you have to give people a sense of not retaliating, not hitting back, not getting one for one, but instead getting a sense of peace.' 
mortar of violence and hatred," he said. 
Purcell related the frustration of a fellow priest who delivered a eulogy for a for a man whose family had been wracked by violence. 
"What do you say? It's a very emotive time-your heart and spirit is crying out in anger, but you have to give people a sense of not retaliating, not hitting back, not getting one for one, but instead getting a sense of peace," he said. 
To achieve that "sense of peace," Purcell has helped or­ganize and coordinate a handful of different counseling groups and youth centers, dealing with young people from the ages of 14 to 30. While the youth centers act as a place to keep kids safely off the streets, their anger and sorrow about their situations without taking their feelings to the streets. 
Stressing that the counseling and education should help draw all the different factions to­gether, Purcell favors "ecumenism," which in his words involves the "joining of two communities in peace." 
"We've got to begin working together against hardship, poverty, and extreme violence toward peace," he said. 
Despite his best efforts to work for peace and understanding, Purcell admits he becomes frustrated with the never-ending bombings, killings, and rioting. 
"You try to see and find the positive, but it's very frustrating, so little has been done. You want to ask the IRA or the RUC, 'Can you see what you're doing? You're destroying you're own country,"' he said. 
As far as recent talk of the Clinton administration appoint­ing a special envoy to coordinate peace talks, Purcell was optimistic. 
"I was very impressed with Clinton's inauguration address, especially where he stressed that we should never fear change, but embrace it. Those words apply to Northern Ireland. Clinton is showing a great interest." 
Purcell urged those interested in making a personal difference not to become desensitized by the violence. 
"We can become immune to the violence," Purcell said, "Every murder will become 'just another' killing unless we are constantly aware of the of the part we play in restoring peace to Northern Ireland. When you become immune to the suffering, you become immune to the search for 

sacre, which took the lives of 13 the discussion groups let young peace." Catholics, to the present, people verbalize and express 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALl.~ CHAMPIONSHIP 1.993 
-~­


Regional Regional 2nd Round: 1st Round:1st Round: 2nd Round: Regional Regional Finals Semifinals March 20-21 March 18-19March 18-19 March 20-21 Semifinals Finals 
1) Kentucky 26-3 
·~-~~c~;=:=?-..... ·]·······---­
9) Pittsburgh 17-10 }-----­
················· ··· ·· · · Nashville, Tenn. 
1~)__~-~-~()~isl_(l~(l ~6~.. . . Charlotte, N.C. 
East Rutherford, N.J. 
6) Virginia 19-9
March 25 &27 March 26 & 286) Kansas St. 19-10 

.
···································111) Manhattan 23-6
~i!~;;~;~;~~~····=~]·········································· 
. .. ···-···-· r .3.1..~~~~.CI.~~-~~-~-tt.~..?..3.:~
I
3) FIMd• St. 22-9 •
~~) ~~~~~~ill~ ;~-~ 1·....... ..... ·················~-······················) 
........................ .. ~;~c~u::·&N2~------,·1·;;·:::~~~:;~:~;:2.~~7 ..7J.'I'J.,.~e.f1t~~--2.~~?.} March 18 & 20 1_Q)_MempJ:Ii~_S.!: ~0:!1... ............................................,............................... . 
············································· Orlando, Fla. ································ 
. j... (1~) Nebraska 20-10 
~ 

, 2) Cincinnati 24-4 
2) Seton Hall 27-6 
··································{; ~;··~~~-~;~·-~;:··;;~·;·········
;~i.i~.~-;~-~-~~--~;.::.·;:~.;~.J ···················-···················· 

New Orleans 
New Orleans April3 April3 
JJ.Migl}igi!J:l ?!5.:4......... 
·:~:~~:::·; 1 =~-=~!~~:~_·_·~.;_·_·_._·_·.···········~
1:1:~~~:~:~:~:.-~:.~)······················ ··················\... , 
.~l Louisville~--···· 


1:~:::;:~~T~~~~:-r ... , . --.·-· ·1-~~Lt?..el<:!~~-??.:?.............._.. 
Seattle March 26 & 28 March 25 & 27 __ f?)_g<ii~CJ.r11.~.~-~-­
6) ll.linois 18-12 
f··· ···-············· ··········· h•t""'"""" :5< 2:1c1Q . Rose~on~:··j~j:································{~~---~~l;i~--~-i ... 

March 18 & 20 !)_f:lrighclrf.l XC>IJI19 ?~ ..­19.lMlss9llriJ!H~.... 1 ~ , 1:~:.:~:~~::~.8.c.1J ~ ....................................... , .............................. . l-:·~·::~~-~:i~'i=;~ :~ 
:~;~~~~-------~~~~~~--~-~t;.~ ~~~ L -­
AP

I \SAAri 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class~ieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
FUNDRAISERNOTICES  NEED A QUIET PLACE TO WRITE YOUR BOOK OR THESIS? Full  One-way NW Airline ticket ­Chicago to Los Angeles ­ LEAVING YOUR CAR AT ND FOR THE SUMMER? NEED A  NO EXPERIENCE! $500 TO $900 weekly/potential processing FHA  
We're looking for a top fraternity,  Eqp Cottage Palisades Pil Near So  May 7-2pm-$190.00  CARSITTER? CALL 4-4092. WILL  mortgage refunds. Own hours. 1­ 
TYPING 256-6657 sorority or student organization that  Haven Ml (70B)446-611B  Contact Jane 634·4994.  PAY$$$.  501-646-0503 Ext 447. 24 hours.  
would like to make $500·$1 ,500 for  Another Lenten Friday, and  
Dissertations, Theses, one week marketing project right on Term Papers campus. Must be organized and Word Works Typing Service hard working. Call (BOO) 592·2121 277·7406 ext. 308. Bring your Spring Break film to the 50,000,000 babies Gift Stand in the lobby of the Morris  Newly Remodeled 5br. house for rent Close to ND, all appliances, security system, etc. $650/ mth. 232-8256 2 br. Apts for rent  I PERSONAL Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box B03B, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  more meatless baked ziti! Try some fish &chips at SUBWAY Daily meal deals on Tuna & Crab subs  PASTA CAFE 1636 N. Ironwood Mon. ·Ali-U-Can Eat Spaghetti $3.95 Wed.-$2.00 off Any Dinner Lost: Eyeglasses in hard brown  
Inn for processing. Lowest rates on ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT campus. Free doubles everyday. · fisheries. Eam $600+/week in Mon.-?Fri. film left by 10:00 a.m. canneries or $4000+/month on  totally remodeled with new appliances and lots of space truly the best price in town  Pretty Brown Eyes: Quit breaking my heart.  And every sunday-Buy 2 feet, get 3rd  case. If found call Jon @ 271-193B.  
will be back the next day by 1 :00 fishing boats. Free transportation! p.m. Drop off on your way to work Room & Board! Over 8000 or class and pick it up the next day openings. No experience on your way home. Why pay more necessary. Male or Female. For for less? Try us, you'll like us! employment program call 1·206·  Call us and compare 232-B256 3-5 person furnished house, SEC Syst, wash/dry, Beach V-Ball, Prime  To the Alumni Hockey Team & Fans, Take back your weenies, and hang up your sticks!!  FREE!I SA 23 & Ironwood Howdi doodi  HEY SENIORSI!I!Il Last two chances to buy  
Open 7 days a week 7:30 a.m. ­545-4155 ext. A5584  Locaton 233-9947.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SENIOR FORMAL tickets!!!  
6:30p.m.  HPC PRESENTS:  Pregnant and feeling alone with no  
ILOST & FOUND I Summer Girl Needed • Chicago North Suburbs. Live In and care for 1 ,6, & 1 0 year old boys. Prefer Non­smoker with Drivers License. Salary  Oakhill Condo for rent. 1 bdrm, 2 bath w/ loft & fireplace & garage. $650/mo. One year lease beginning May '93. Caii317-297-B485 for info.  Buy a Domer/Bail a Domer Day  where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232­5B43.  Tues. March 16 6-9pm AND Thurs. March 18 6-9 pm Room 1OB LaFortune  
plus Room & Board. Interested FOUND: SET OF KEYS AT KNOTT-person call 708-295-3493. BADIN FORMAL ON 2/26. CALL  SUMMER SESSION -Visiting Professors, grad students.  Put a pal in jail, or buy the services of your favorite campus celebrity.  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  
ANNE MARIE 4-4700. FOR RENT  4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities. $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call  March 1B, 1993 in LaFortune $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  Heading lor EUROPE this summer?  
Paul or Monica 232-2794.  city; summers by the beach; your  Jet there anytime lor only $169 from  
Lost: three keys on a NIKE key **"'*******************•******* ring. If found please return to  Spring Break in Corpus Christi  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest (when available) with AIRHITCH!  
217 Flanner or call X1004 Staying at ND/SMC for the SUMMER?LOST: ID case on Tuesday. March 2. It was lost in or near the second Sub-lease our apartment atfloor of the library. If the case or CASTLE POINT! any of its contents have been found, please call Kelley at 273-2990. CALL 4-4673 TODAY!! REWARDII!I Lost set of keys with Ren & Stimpy keychain ······························· before Spring Break. Call BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES Ryan x1007. FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291·7153. WANTED Roomate for next year needed for Castle Point apartment. WAMTED Male Stripper Will Pay$50 Call 273·9644 for more info.$60 if Oriental  UVIN YEAR? NEED FURNITURE? WE HAVE: BEDS COUCHES TABLE 5CHAIRS ENTERTAINMENT CENTER DRESSERS ANDA DESK CALL 273-2810 DEB'S TYPING SERVICE 1-656­303B PICK-UP/DELIVERY  Especially for Mandl, Randi, Cori, & Tori (with an i) 10) WE'RE on vacation ... YOU have a flat tire! 9) Ma'am, this is the Texas State Police and you've been stopped for speedin'. B) These are my Notre Dame girlfriends. 7) You showered with 8 guys? ·6) Tori, that's a kick-ass name! 5) I have 2 words: FROO-FROO! 4) My buns are on fire! 3) I don't know what to do with my body! 2) Those guys are DEFINITELY in the Navy. 1) It's B:OOAM-HOUSEKEEPINGI COO-COO!!!  waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. ADOPTION: A loving happy home, financial security, and educational opportunities await your newbom. We can help with your expenses. Please call us collect: David and Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's help each other. Student Activities is now hiring students for the 1993-94 academic year. Positions available as Building Managers, Sound Techs, Room Monitors, Stepan Managers, O~ice Assisstants, Set Up Crew,  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.) AIRHITCH (r) 212-B64·2000. NOVENA TO ST. JUDE Oh holy St. Jude, apostle and martyr, near kinsman of Jesus Christ, faithful intercessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depths of my heart and humbly beg to whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. St. Jude pray for us all who invoke your  ,  
Call Jen X4633 4 BEDRM/3BATHRM SEMI­FURN. OAKHILL CONDOPRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 4 RENT '93-'94 SUM and/or YEAR ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS CALL 277-9452NEAR LAKE PLACID  MAN'S BEAUTIFUL DIAMOND RING, 14K GOLD WITH 5 DIAMONDS. 1/2 CARAT. $300. 2BB·4071.  KIM MASSMAN is now a free bird-give her a call. If she's not home, her roommate, MEGHAN KELLY is also free.  Information Desk & Games Room Attendants, and more. Stop by 315 Lafortune to pick up an application.Deadline for applying is Friday, March 19.  aid. Amen. Say 3 Our Fathers, 3 Hail Mary's and Glory Be's. Publication must be promised. This Novena has never been known to fail. CK  
CALL 1·800·7B6-B373.  

page 12 

«::::> l,~ ~~
0

' ~.. • ~-~
~ 4!_ lii~~Wt
""··-· 

Th1s Week In 
•..... : 
. :: 

..... ..... 
Notre Dame Sports 
March 14 -March 20 
WEDNESDAY 3/17 Softball: At Bowling Green 3 PM 
THURSDAY 3/18 Women's Tennis: Illinois 3 PM Men's Tennis: At Blue-Gray Nt'I Classic Men's and Women's Swimming: At NCAA Championships 
11:00 AM (I) 7:00PM (F) 
FRIDAY 3/19 Baseball: At Kentucky 7 PM Men's Tennis: At Blue-Gray Nt'I Classic Men's and Women's Swimming: At NCAA Championships 
11:00 AM (I) 7:00PM (F) 

SATURDAY 3/20 Women's Tennis: Drake 11 AM LaCrosse: Maryland­Baltimore Co. 2PM Men's and Women's Track: At Florida State Invitational TBA Baseball: At Kentucky 1 PM (2) Softball: At Indiana St. Tournament TBA Men's Tennis: At Blue-Gray Nt'I Classic Men's and Women's Swimming: At NCAA Championships ll:OOAM (I) 7:00PM (F) 
The Observer/Chris Mullins 
The Observer

:······:······:·····.:·····.:······:·····..·····. ..... ...... ......
• : : : : : : : • : : : : : : 
: • •••••• •••••• •••••• • • • • • • • •
.· :: ·. : : :: ::·····::":": : 
: : 
Tuesday Ma h 16 1 

t<(.lliilll.. 0 ­
·~llll ""''~
·~rJ' ~k.•J
V.y ,7 ~ 
1993 NIT Pairings 
Farst round Collegg(l6~12) at Wednesday,March 17 Niagra (23-6) 
•Florida 
(16-11) at •Georgetown (16-12) at Minnesota (17-10), 6:30pm Arizona State ( 18-9) 

•Michigan 
State (15-12) at •Auburn (15-11) at Oklahoma (19-11), 8:30pm Clemson (16-12) 

•Southern 
Cal ( 16-11) at UNLV (21-7), 11 pm ,, 

•Miami, 
Ohio (20-8).at Friday, March 18 Ohio State (15-12) ,,,~Va. Commonwealth (20-9) at 

•Georgia 
(15-13) at ,,,, · Old Dor!iinion (20-7) West Virginia(l6-11) ~, ,,,,,,,, •Pepperdine (22-7) at 

•Rice 
(17-9) at ··'··· '''''· UC Santa Barbara (18-10) Wisconsin (14-3):) .. ('\i:i •Houston (21-8) 
~t 



:c:j; ./~~ i~i:::~:::~~@. ];~::::::/ .· ··.:·:=·· 


•Jam~s Madison (21-8) at  Semifinals: Monday, March 29  
Providence (17-11)  Finals: Wednesday, March 31  
The Observer/Chris Mullins  

•.....•: •, : ...... :.....• ••••••:: :: •. 
CAA POLLS 
Rankings through games of March 14, determined by the staff of Baseball 
America: 
Team 
1. 
Georgia Tech 

2. 
Texas 

3. 
Mississippi State 

4. 
Louisiana State 

5. 
TexasA&M 

6. 
UCLA 

7. 
Cal State Fullerton 

8. 
North Carolina State 

9. 
Florida State 

10. 
Oklahoma State 

11. 
Arizona 

12. 
Wichita State 

13. 
Rice 

14. 
California 

15. 
Stanford 


1 6. Notre Dame 
17. 
Miami 

18. 
Pepperdine 

19. 
Southern California 

20. 
Arizona State 

21. 
Fresno State 

22. 
Sacramento State 

23. 
Cal State Northridge 

24. 
Clemson 

25. 
Florida 


Dropped Out: Lamar (22) 
W-L 
15-2 
23-3 
7-1 
10-3 
22-2 
13-4 
11-7 
15-1 
15-3 
8-3 14-10 9-3 22-2 14-10 13-7 2-3 12-10 
14-7 
12-12 17-9 12-9 
16-4 14-2 11-3 11-9 
(Notre Dame and its opponents are in bold lettering.) 
Intercollegiate Tennis Association r~nkings as determined by vote of eight-coach ITA National Ranking Committee: 
Team Record 1. Stanford 12-0 2. Florida 5-1 3. Texas 6-0 4. Duke 6-1 5. Georgia 7-2 6. California 5-1 
Southern California 9-1 

8. Arizona 8-4 9. Pepperdine 6-3 1o UCLA 5-5 
11.· Arizona State 6-5 Indiana 6-2 
13. Brigham Young 5-0 14. Miami 5-4 15. Tennessee 5-5 
16. San Diego State 2-4 17. Mississippi 4-3 
18. San Diego 2-0 19. Kansas 6-3 20. Virginia 2-2 Others rece1vmg votes: Wake Forest, Kentucky, Clemson, North Carolina, Alabama Wisconsin, Louisiana State' Notre Dame ' 
(Notre Dame and its opponents are in bold lettering.) 


Thank you to food service employees ~nd student workers during JPW. We couldn't have done it without ALL OF YOU! 
-Notre Dame Foodservice-
GRADUATION Student Workers 
FREE Room and Board May 7-16 $5.80/hour 
I 
I ... 
Sign up starting
I 
I I 
March 16
I I I 
I 
10 a.nt.-4 p.nt.
I I I I I I 
Lower level­I I I I 
South Dining Hall I I I I 

I I IL------------------------------~ 
....CLUB Juniors! 
Applu todau for bartender positions! 
Application.s can be pirned up in the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
Deadline: f1arch 19, 199J 
SENIORS '• 
Last two chances to buy 
§JEMJI([])Jfd JF([])JFdJMIAIL tickets! 
Tuesday, March 16 6 p.m.-9 p.m. Room 108 LaFortune 
-AND­
Thursday, March 18 6 p.m. -9 p.m. Room 108 LaFortune 
Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
Irish men take third at Eastern lntercollegiates 
B)( ALLISON MCCARTHY placed third in the 400 I.M Sports Writer (4:03.72). 
Other strong swims came The Notre Dame men's from senior Colin Cooley, who swimming team closed their placed second in the 100 and 
1992-93 season last week at the 200 breast with times of 56.89 Eastern Intercollegiate and 2:03.78, respectively. He Swimming and Diving Champi­also took third in the 200 I.M 
onships with a third place finish (1 :52.85).
behind first place Southern Senior Ed Broderick capturedIllinois and runner-up St. second in the 200 I.M. Bonaventure. (1:52.79), in which he was the 
The Irish scored a total of 422 defending champion, and sec­points, twenty-eight points be­ond in the 100 fly (50.38).hind the Bonnies, who Notre The senior relay team of co­Dame defeated in the dual meet captain Tom Whowell, Cooley, season. Broderick . and Greg Cornick 
"I thought [Easterns] went finished second in the 400 very well," head coach Tim medley relay (3:23.43) and Welsh said. "We swam signifi­fourth in the 200 medley relay cantly faster than the week be­(1:34.51). Cornick also placedfore at MCC's. We were a more fifth in his specialty, the 100 aggressive and better prepared freestyle at 46.01. team. We did very well." Junior diver Sean Hyer placed 
Several university records first in both the one and three were set throughout the week­meter diving events. In the end. including two by distance three meter events. in which ­freestyle specialist and sopho­Hyer was the defending more Mike Keeley who finished champion, his score totaled fifth in the 500 free (4:35.39) 436.47 points. Hyer's one me­and fourth in the 1650 free and ter score was 417.60 points. set the 1000 freestyle record "Sean dove very well." stated 
during his race. Keeley also Welsh. "This is the first time in 

The Irish, whose dual meet record totaled 11-2. were very pleased with the season. 
"We had a very strong sea­son." commented Welsh. "One of the keys to it was that we raced faster in each meet throughout the season. For the most part, we were faster at Easterns than at National several years that anyone has won both diving events." 
Hyer also competed in the NCAA Zone Diving Champi­onships this past weekend, where he placed twelfth in the one meter and thirteenth in the three meter competition, scor­ing six points for the Irish. 
"Sean had a lot of big dives along the stretch, and his com­petition was tough-it included the entire Big 10," stated diving coach Adam Hirschfeld." The divers with the best seven scores will compete in NCAA's. 
F 1• r s t .... y ear Stu d en t s Need Information on Sophomore Year Programs? 
ARTS AND LETTERS or BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION? 
Tuesday March 16 6:00p.m. 122 Hayes--Healey 
Wednesday March 17 6:00p.m. 122 Hayes--Healey 
SCIENCE PROGRAMS 
• 
Tuesday March 16 7:00p.m. 283 Galvin Life Science 
PREPROFESSIONAL PROGRAMS ----ALPP or SCPP? 
Thursday March 18 7:00p.m. 101 DeBartolo 
ENGINEERING PROGRAMS 
Thursday March 18 6:00p.m. 356 Fitzpatrick 
Catholics which shows a good progression. 
"All things moved in the right direction. The key at the be­ginning of the year was to see how the freshmen and the sophomore distance freestylers would perform, and they got better and stronger as the sea­son .went on." 
The men began the season with hopes of "re-establishing some university records, and it was good to see this goal ac­complished at Easterns," added Welsh. "We keep thinking we'd like to send someone to NCAA's, too, and each year, we keep appreciating the difficulty of making the standards." 
The Irish expect several re­cruits for the upcoming season. "We have a very large group of well-qualified people applying," said Welsh. "Now, we're just waiting on admissions office decisions." 
Irish golf teams tee off seasons 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame men and 
women's golf teams opened up 
their seasons at the University 
of Central Florida Invitational 
and the Northern Illinois An­
nual Snowbird Intercollegiate 
Invitational, respectively. 
The final results were not 
available but after 54 of the 72 
holes had been completed the 
Irish stood 16th in the 17 team 
field. Chris O'Connell was per­
formed the best for Notre 
Dame. His two round total of 
155 (77, 78) placed him in 52nd 
place. The next closest Irish 
golfer is Chris Dayton. The 
senior co-captain scored 
rounds of 77 and 80 . 
The women faired a bit better than the men finishing ninth out of twenty teams in the NI­ASII. The Irish were in no po­sition to compete with Iowa State who ran away with the tournament with a score of 
-
622. Notre Dame's total of 672 earned them a ninth place fin­ish over a number of Big Ten teams, including Michigan. 
Freshman Julie Melby lead the Irish with a score of 164 
(79. 85). The total earned her a team-best 26th place. Senior Captain Kathy Phares followed Melby with a total of 166 (81.85). 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
Men's hoops needs help in '93-'94 
By RICH KURZ Sports Writer 
Mercifully, for fans of Notre Dame basketball, the 1992-93 season has ended. A year that started with less than stellar expectatjons failed to live up to 
COMMENTARY 
even those. 
Granted the Irish had to deal with more injuries than they expected. but success will not come as easily to the Notre Dame basketball program as it might have seemed last spring during its run to the NIT finals. Not only has there been a large drop-otT in the talent level, but those that remain haven't 

The Observer/ Jake Peters Ryan Hoover is one bright spot for next season. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
then on, the Cardinals didn't look back. 
"I was really impressed with Louisville. We got out to a nice little lead, but they have too much power in terms of strength, size and quickness," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "We could not keep them ofT the offensive boards. They made their outside shots, which opened it up inside today. Defensively. we were competitive, but we don't have the power to compete with them." 
Actually, from the way the Irish played early in the game, the outcome might seem a little odd. 
Notre Dame ju"lped out to a 14-point lead. holcfing Louisville scoreless until almost six min­utes had gone by in the game. 
Brooks Boyer scored the first points of the game after he made a steal and the Irish were well on· their way. Monty Williams and Jason Williams 

-
''·}~ 
....& 
picked up MacLeod's system quite as quickly as he would have hoped. 
.., thought we would progress better than we did," said MacLeod, speaking on the sea­son after the Louisville game. "We were not as competitive defensively as I'd thought we'd be. Had we taken care of some basics, we'd be sitting on 13 wins." 
But they're not. Instead they finished the season 9-18, having lost 11 of their last 12, in­cluding seven in a row. Actually, the Irish raised those low expectations by starting the season S-2, including a loss at the buzzer to Indiana, now a number-one seed in the NCAA Tournament. 
Somewhere along the way, though, something slipped. They started losing games they were expected to win, but more importantly, they seemed to be missing a spark. Things just weren't clicking, and the Irish started their season-ending slide. 
The 1993-94 season won't depend so much on those play­ers who return from this year's team as on those who will join it next season. This year's team showed the extent of what it could do alone. It needs help. 
First of all, though, it needs one Monty Williams to stay in school and come back for another year. 
"It's not set in stone," said MacLeod. "but he should come back." 
But the Irish need to upgrade and add depth at all positions. Primary among those concerns is to get Keith Kurowski. red­shirted due to a stress fracture this season, healthy and ready to play. 
He hasn't spent his downtime 
both hit three-pointers to move Notre Dame out early. • 

The Cardinals talked coach Denny Crum into starting all of his seniors for their final home game, but that wasn't the rea­son the Irish took ofT. 
"That was one of the few times we came out of the box hot and maintained the lead," said MacLeod. "I thought we improved drastically in recog­nition." 
Said Crum, "It's hard to over­come a 13, 14-point deficit, but we overcame it." Crum also didn't blame his seniors for the giving up a big lead, saying, "We didn't really play great when we subbed, either." 
But that was then and this is now. The Irish are done for the season, while the Cardinals are heading ofT to Indianapolis as a fourth seed in the Midwest re­gion of the NCAA Tournament.. 
Irish Notes: After the game, MacLeod announced that as soon as final exams are over, his team will head to France, Germany and Switzerland to get some spring games in. Ad-
Photo courtesy of Louisville Sports Information 
Denny Crum and the Louisville handed the Irish their 18th loss. 
idly, either. He's been lifting and doing ball-handling as much as he can to get ready for when he can play. Coming out of high school, Kurowski averaged 26 points and was named the top three-point field goal shooting freshman in the oountry. The Irish can sorely use that offensive ability. 

The two recruits for next sea­son are both big men. who will earn some game time as freshmen. Matt Gotsch, a seven­footer from Friendswood. Texas, averaged 21 points, 13 rebounds and 8.4 blocks as a junior last season and is reportedly averaging close to 30 points a game this season. 
Derrick Hughes. the other signee. doesn't have great numbers, scoring only 8 points a game as a junior, but ave)."­aged 10 rebounds. His team won the Class C state title in Michigan, but he wasn't asked to carry a large offensive load. He's listed at 6-10, and his coach says he's still growing. 
These two lit in better with the up tempo attack MacLeod favors, and if they can develop quickly, the Irish will certainly have the size to compete with more of the top teams in the country. 
Next season will be an impor­tant one for the Irish. A moderate amount of success next season will keep the Irish in the news, and hopefully in the race for a marquee-type player to continue Notre Dame's rise to the top. . 
The players who return next year have experience in MacLeod's system, but as this year showed, they can't do it without additional help. With the additions for next year, it could be a lot more interesting than the one that just ended. 
ditionally, MacLeod is optimistic that redshirt freshman Keith Kurowski and junior Carl Cozen will both be healed enough from their stress fractures to take part in the trip... Senior Monty Williams, eligible for a fifth year of eligibility, has yet to indicatefor sure whether or not he will return. 
For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 
Friday, March 19 Saturday, March 20 8:00p.m. 9:00p.m. 
• 

A time ofquiet and personal reflection, the retreat will include opporlu11ily for shared reflection on the biblical texis for lhe Sundays ofunt. 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. RESERVATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL MARCH 18. Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 631-8606 
or Sharon at Fischer Community Center631-8607. 


The Observer/ David Hungeling The decision of Monty Williams on his possible return to Notre Dame is a major factor in determining Notre Dame's outlook for the future. 
*Save up to $3000 on your next car or truck *College graduate rebate of $400 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
Corner of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka 
Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 
also available. 
Hours: Mon... Tues. 11:OO.. 9:30 Wed... Sat. 11:00.. 10:00 Sunday 4:00.. 9:30 

Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
Notre Dame's Eric Danapilis nominated for Smith Award 
Special to The Observer 
l:he National Collegiate Base­ball Writer's Association re­leased its list of nominees, which includes Notre Dame's Eric Danapilis, for the 1993 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info Danapilis is a career .390 hitter. 
Smith Award for the College Player of the Year and the in­augural Smith Super Team. 
Danapilis who plays right field for the Irish and has a career batting average of .390 is nominated in the designated hitter/utility/athlete category. 
Also nominated are several players the Irish faced on their spring break trip, including 1992 Smith Award finalist Dar­ren Dreifort of Wichita State University, Doug Newstrom and Antone Williamson of Arizona State University and Robby Moen, Chris Gump and Willie Morales of the University o Arizona. 
This year. the voting will in­clude fans as well as the NCBWA. 
The final vote weight being equally distributed between the fans, the writers, and the Smith Board. 
To vote for Danapilis, fans can call 1-900-976-VOTE, at a cost of 99 cents per minute with proceeds going to charity. 
The Observer page 15 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
look we went out here under some adverse conditions in an adverse place to play where they have about a 75 or maybe higher than that winning per­centage at Arizona State and went out there and really took it to them.' We didn't just beat them, we took it to them," said Murphy. 
In the 8-6 win over Wichita State, Notre Dame pounded out five runs in the first two innings on hits by Failla, Danapilis, Hartwell and Bob Lisanti, but once again it was a team effort at the plate with Layson, Danapilis and freshman Robbie Kent knocking two hits each. 
Michalak collected his second win of the season after replac­ing Irish starter Tom Price in the fourth inning. 
Price was tagged for four runs on four hits in his time on the mound while Michalak limited the Shockers to two runs on four hits in three innings. 
Allowing no hits, runs or walks, AI Walania closed the game for his first save of the year. 


1992-93 STUDENT LEADERSHIP AWARDS 
Nomination Forms are now available m Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune 
Nomination Deadline is March 24, 1993 
HEY 
Last Tuesday, Arizona's George Arias led the Wildcats in the 19-6 win with a grand slam 

Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
in the first inning off Notre 
Captain Eddie Hartwell played well for Notre Dame during the break.
Dame's David Sinnes continuing his six-game home run streak. John Tejcek, Willie Morales and James Motte (2) also hit home runs in the game. 
Sinnes took the loss for the Irish although he only pitched to four batters while the win went to Steve Arffa to boost his record to 3-0. 
The offensive highlight for the Irish came in the bottom of the sixth when the Irish finally got on the board with four runs. Two freshmen stepped up to the plate for the first time in their collegiate careers and hit home runs. 
Even more incredible, Mark Mapes' and Rowan Richards' home runs were back to back. This is the first time in Notre Dame baseball history that this has happened. 
"It was real exciting to say the least," said Mapes of his home run. "I didn't expect much, just to go up there and swing. I just hit it and started running. I saw the umpire signal that it was a home run and was like, 'Wow.' I didn't think it was gone.'' 
On Wednesday, the Irish played an unique double header with a 10-9 loss in the afternoon against Arizona and a 10-1 loss against the California Angels later that night. 
In the game against Arizona, Arias once again hurt the Irish with the long ball this time with a tie-breaking solo home run in the fourth inning. 
Arias is one game away from 
breaking the NCAA record of 
eight consecutive games with a
SOPHOMO~ES! 
home run set by Andy Bruce of Georgia Tech in 1991. 
The Wildcats responded to two Irish runs in the first inning with seven in the bottom of that inning off Walania who pitched a complete game for Notre
GEf 1NVOLVEO W1fH 
Dame. 

Strong hitting helped the Irish who scored runs in the first three innings. Danapilis knocked his second home run of the year and Lisanti added a
YOU~ JPW 
APPL1CAffONS f0~ fHE EXECUffVE COMM1ffEE AVA1LA8LE Af fHE 
LAfO~fUNE1NfOOESK DUE MONDAY MA~CH 22 
two-run triple and a two-run single. 
Against the Angels, Danapilis scored the only Irish run in the fifth inning off an Angel error. Richards got the first Irish hit of the .day in the third inning of Angel pitcher John Farrell and Robbie Birk notched the third and final hit of the evening. 
The practice game does not effect Notre Dame's record or the team's stats. 
On Saturday, the Irish lost another close one this time 14­11 to Wichita State. The Shock­ers broke an 11-11 tie with three runs in the seventh in­ning. 
Hartwell led the Irish at the plate with two hits including a double. Every Notre Dame starter scored once in the game except Richards who scored three runs. 
Richards who played well was pleased with the trip, "I was very happy with what I did. I got a lot more play than I ex­pected." 
The Irish squad is hoping to get in an outdoor practice in South Bend before they head to Kentucky for a four-game series this weekend. 
Editor's note: Notre Dame Sports Information, Arizona Sports Information. the South Bend Tribune and The Arizona Republic contributed to this ar­ticle 

------~-----------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer 
Seniors make splash in last meet 

By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
There is something about be­ing a senior. Maybe it's the fact that they are about to graduate, or maybe it's because they never have to swim in a meet again, ever. Hut if Notre Dame had an MVP award for their last championship meet, it would be a toss up as to which of the three seniors would receive it: Susan Bohdan, Kay Broderick, or NCAA qualifier Tanya Williams. 
The women's swim team competed at the Eastern Colle­giate Conference championship meet at Cleveland State Uni­versity over the first weekend of Spring Break. In their last meet of the season as an entire team, the Irish placed second with 542 points. Winning the meet was West Virginia, only 51 points ahead of the Irish with 
593. Finishing out the top live places were Southern Illinois University (457), St. Bonaventure (438), and Uni­versity of Maryland-Baltimore (420). 
The three-day championship meet consisted of a morning session (preliminary heats) and an evening session (finals) each day. The top sixteen times from the morning session competed in the evening-the only time that points could be scored for a 
Women 
continued from page 20 
But homecourt advantage can't overcome turnovers, and the Irish committed 23 to help sixth-seeded Dayton to the first­round upset. 
"Dayton played like veterans, which they are, and we played like freshmen and sophomores, which we are," McGraw said. 
The Dayton loss was just the end of the roller coaster ride. There were plenty of ups and downs the rest of the way. 
The season began on a bad note with losses to Marquette and Purdue. Against the Boil­ermakers, the Irish scored just 41 points and committed 41 turnovers on the way to a 33­point loss. 
McGraw called the game "an embarrassment to Notre Dame basketball." 
In January, the Irish looked dominating during a four-game win streak that included wins over Dayton and MCC tourna­ment champion Xavier. 
That streak came to an 
abrupt halt when the Irish 
travelled to face Penn State and 
DePaul, both ranked in the top 
25 at the time. 
Coquese Washington became Notre Dame's all-time steal leader, finishing her career with (however many she has, call rose she was gone earlier). 
The Irish took all the ups and downs in stride. It was all part of the ride, all part of playing 
Alternative Lifestyles 
Meeting others like yourself isn't always easy. How can you lead a loving and fulfilled life without making a puhlic statement? We offer a confidential network through which you can get to know others like yourself without leaving the privacy of your own home. Write for free information. 
AlterNet 
18115 State Rd. 23, #238 
South Bend, IN 46637 

team. "We needed to swim fast winning times in the backstroke in the morning to return and events were fast enough to set score points at night. And for new Eastern Conference meet the most part, that's what we records. did," head coach Tim Welsh Williams set the pace for the said. seniors and the rest of the team 
On the first day of competition senior co-captain Susan Bohdan gave an impressive performance in the 500-yard freestyle. Bohdan place ninth, winning the consolation heat, with a best time of 5:03.81-three seconds faster than she had swum in the morning. The next day in the 200-yard freestyle, Bohdan swam close to her best time, and scored tenth for the Irish. 
Bohdan's classmate Kay Broderick swam one of the fastest meets of her life, be­ginning with a 9th place, conso­lation heat win, in the 200-yard individual medley. Broderick also swam best times in the 100-yard (58. 92) and the 200­yard (2:04.39) backstrokes, placing fifth and third respec­tively. 
Senior co-captain Tanya Williams, the only Irish swim­mer whose season is not over, competed in the three events that she will swim this weekend at the NCAA championship meet in St. Paul, Minn. Williams placed second in the 200-yard individual medley, and first in both the 100-yard and 200-yard backstrokes. Her to do well, and should finish off the season for the Irish strongly at NCAA's this weekend. 



The entire sw.im team recog­nized and acknowledged the seniors' accomplishments this weekend. Sophomore Lorrei Horenkamp said, "It was really great to see the seniors finish their swimming career so well. They've worked hard for four years, and it's nice to see that it all paid off. We rewarded as a team in the locker room after the meet." 
Welsh was also extremely pleased with the way the meet ended. "We prepared for and raced at the meet well. There were some excellent and promising swims." 
Diving also played a role in Notre Dame's second place lin­ish. There were two Irish divers in both the one-and three-meter event finals. Freshman Liane Gallagher placed fifth and third in the one-and three-meter events. Followed by junior Angela Gu­gle who placed eighth and sev­enth, respectively. 
Other notable swims for the Irish came from freshman Jesslyn Peterson. Peterson set conference records with a first place finish in the 400-yard in­dividual medley, and in the 200­yard breastroke in the morning session. 

The only University record broken this weekend was in the 200-yard freestyle relay, set by freshmen Kelly Walsh, Mary Wendell, and Rachel Thurston, 
Irish Week 
activities sponsored by 
Joan D. Kroc ln5tltute ((If lntcrnollonal rcace Studies 
Campu• Ministry 
Multlcuhuml Exccutlw Coundl 
Ccntl!l' ror Sod•I Concerns 
Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
and sophomore Cara Garvey. 

"l was pleased with the result of the weekend. We will now concentrate on resting and training this summer to get ready for an even better season next year," Welsh said. That is, after Williams finishes her season and her swimming ca­reer this weekend. 
SUMMER 
5TORAaE 
Call Fo~ Rese~vatiol"l Maste~ MiJI\i Wa~ehoV\se 683-1959 (Af+e~ 5: 684-0285) 
Tuesday, March 16th, 12:15pm 
A Fireside Chat: Peace Songs ofAmerica and Ireland 
Nolr< Damt Room, IAForlunt Sludml Cmltr O.arlle King. Folk•lngor, along w\lh Willie Purcell 1-lt"re Charlie King (whom rete~gerc.all!l"oneofthe fin~t w.ngwritcon of the 8Cl'1'1 and WiUie Purcell e)( pre~ In music some American and Irish hop<'S (or justice and P"•ce. Lunch Is provided! Come, listen and enjoy. 
Wednesday, March 17th, 5:00pm 
Mass on the Feast of St. Patrick 
&silica of lht S..crtd lfttJrl 
AU of the music lor today's lilurgy is by Irish composers, p<'rfonned by I he Notre Dame Folk Choir. Fr. Willie PurceU, Preslder 
Thursday, March 18th, 12:15pm 
A Follow-up discussion 
Room C-103, Htsburgh Ctnltr Auditorium A chance to engage In discussion about the Issues of p<'aCe facing Ireland and Northern Ireland. Moderated by Fr. PurceU. 
-~----------------~--------------~ 
Tuesday, March 16, 1993 The Observer page 17 

The ObserverfT.J. Harris Senior Chuck Coleman was one of many Irish players who fell over the weekend but were content with their performance 
TRY YOUR LUCX FOR ACHANCE AT EXTRA SAVINGS! 
YOU MAY VIIN APORTION OF YOUR MEAL 
FREE! 

FACULTY DINING ROOM 
OPEN MONDAY -FlUDAY 
11:30 AM -1:00 PM 

LOCATED IH mUPPER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL 

+ 

LENTEN 
GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, March 28 3:00-7:00 p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection on the biblical texts of the Sundays of Lent. 
Place: Fischer Graduate Community Center Cost: The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which a donation will be welcomed. CALL BY FRIDAY MARCH 26 TO RESERW: A PlACE. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber. C.S.C., Fischer Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 

(?MPUS
MINISTRY 

Men's tennis happy despite 1-3 break 

14 Mlifksch~i~~ 
& Chuck-'Coleinan 
tenth, respectively. So although the Irish fell to 8-7 after this week's losses, they have reason to be optimistic. 
"I don't know how much of a pounding we can continue to take," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss, "But are spirits are good, we know we've played the best teams, and we're ex­perienced so we've been there and we know that all that mat­ters is what you do in Athens (Site of the NCAA's) and who you beat there." 
The Irish began this year's spring break in the Penn Na­tional Collegiate Invitational at Arizona State with a 6-1 loss to the 11th-ranked Pepperdine Waves. The Invite was run un­der the older format which has the singles matches being played before the doubles matches, whereas the new format that the lrish have played under all season has the doubles matches being played first in eight-game pro sets, and the singles matches afterwards. 
This format hurt the Irish against the Waves, since it negated their strong doubles teams. Pepperdine won five out of the six singles matches, meaning the doubles matches meant nothing. Only two out of the five losses were not in straight sets. as Will Forsyth battled Charles Auffray in a 3­6, 6-4, 6-4 loss at one-singles and Ron Rosas fought in a 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 loss to Ari Nathan at the fourth spot. 
"It was tough, being it was only our second day outside," noted Bayliss. "But we adjusted better each day. This was our worst match of the week." 
The one bright spot of the 
first day was the play of junior 
Todd Wilson, who came up with 
the Irish's lone win against the 
Waves with a 6-2, 6-0 victory at 
six-singles. 

"Todd served as well as I've 
ever seen," said Bayliss. 
So the Irish moved on the 
next day to the Tennessee Vol­
unteers, who had moved from 
17 up to five in the latest rank­
ings. The Irish had another 
tough day, again winning only 
one singles match, but the 
match was a lot closer than the 
5-1 score indicated. 
Mark Schmidt picked up the 
win at the three spot, besting 
Chris Mahoney 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, 
and the Irish had a chance to 
win four other matches. 
Though Forsyth and Chris Woj­
talik lost in straight sets at one 
and four-singles, all other 
matches went to three sets. 
At two-singles, Tennessee's 
Christopher Haggard overcame 
two match points in the second­
set tiebreaker to beat the Irish's 
Chuck Coleman 0-6, 7-6 (7-5), 
6-3, and Wilson pushed Rhain 
Buth, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2. In another 
close match, freshman Mike 
Sprouse, who subbed in for an 
ill Ron Rosas, lost to Pablo 
Montana 6-2, 4-6, 6-2. 
"Mike really showed a lot of poise," said Bayliss, who added that Wilson was called for a code violation by the chair um­pire for taking too much time in between serves during a pivotal point in the match. That call added to the frustration of the match, in which the doubles matches again were not played. 
"It was a hard fought match," said Bayliss. "We did have our chances to win." 
The next day saw the Irish pick up their only win over the break, a 5-4 thriller over 27th­ranked Arizona State on their home court. Coleman and Wil­son picked up easy straight set wins at the two and sixth spots, while Mark Schmidt came back to beat Chris Gambino 4-6, 6-2. 
6-1. 
So although Forsyth fell to Bruce Haddad 6-3, 6-1, Rosas lost to Peter Jes.chke 6-4, 6-2, and Chris Wojtalik was outbat­tled by Paul Reber 7-5. 5-7. 7-5, the Irish could win the match by taking two out of the three doubles matches. 
After Wojtalik and Sprouse lost in straight sets at three­doubles, Schmidt and Wilson defeated Chris Gambino and Anthony Edwards 6-4, 6-4 to even the match. That left it up to Forsyth and Coleman at the top spot to seal the win. The 14th-ranked doubles team in the nation did the job, besting Jeshke and Reber, 6-4, 6-4. 
KI was encouraged with the effort," stated Bayliss. "We played very solidly at one and two-doubles." 
With that win, the Irish 
headed down to Austin, Texas 
to face the 13th-ranked 
Longhorns in a rematch of the 
Irish's win last February in the 
first round of the National In­
door Championships. 
Playing under the new match 
format, the doubles tandem of 
Forsyth and Coleman started 
the match with a 8-6 upset win 
over Texas' second-ranked 
team of Anders Eriksson and 
Trey Phillips. This was their 
second win over the pair, as 
they defeated the Texas team 8­
3 in February when they were 
ranked number-one. 
However, the Irish lost the 
doubles point, as the tandem of 
Schmidt and Wilson and the 
team of Wojtalik and Spouse 
lost by scores of 8-2 and 8-3, 
respectively. The Irish still had 
a chance to make it closer in 
the singles matches, but after 
straight-set losses at three, 
four, and six-singles, the three 
other matches were called due 
to rain. 
In those other matches, 
Forsyth was winning 7-6, 1-0 
against Eriksson, Wojtalik had 
won the first set 7-6 over 29th­
ranked David Draper, and 
Coleman was mounting a 
comeback in the second set of a 
5-7, 3-2 match. 
"They'll fmish in the top ten," 
said Bayliss of the tough Texas 

Happy 21st 
Brian 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, and Mindy 
-.~ 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
Hockey ends season with loss to Michigan 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team wrapped up its season last weekend by falling to the Uni­versity of Michigan in the first round of the Central Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs. 
The Wolverines, who are ranked second in the nation and finished second in the CCIIA, defeated the Irish handily in two games by the s1:ores of 13-2 and 8-1, respec­tively. 
On Friday night the Wolver­ines scored the first five goals of the game having only nine shots against Notre Dame starting goalie Greg Louder. Louder was replaced at the 11:12 mark of the first period by fellow junior net-minder Brent Lothrop. 
1\velve seconds after Lothrop entered the contest, Irish freshman Jamie Ling put the Irish on the score board with his fourteenth goal of the year. The score was assisted by al~ ternate captain Dave Bankoske and freshman defenseman Matt Bieck. 
Michigan closed the first pe­riod with two more goals and added four unanswered goals in the second period to take an 11-1 lead. 

said about the weekend's per­formance. "I think they (Michigan) are an excellent team. They are far superior than we are. Look for them in the final four (of the NCAA tourney)." 
"We didn't play great, and we didn't play all that bad," said Irish senior Dan Marvin, who finished his Notre Dame hockey career last weekend along with five other seniors. 
"They were ready to play playoff hockey and they're planning on going a long way. We just didn't have the fire power." 
"Michigan just showed us that we have a way to go," said Ling, who led the Irish in scoring this season. "They showed us why they're ranked second in the country." 
Alternate captains Curtis Janicke and Dave Bankoske both expressed sentiments of disappointment toward the endings of their Notre Dame careers on this weekend's note. 
"It's a bitter-sweet ending," said Janicke. "It was nice to end in the CCHA playing against the best competition in the nation, but it was tough not winning many games." 
"It's a disappointing way to end. We had higher hopes," Bankoske said. "I think we can do it in the future. It's just a matter of time." 

The hockey team finished the season with a 7-27-2 record overall and a 5-25-2 record in the CCHA. Although this is clearly not a good record, sev­eral facts should be noted. 
Eighteen of Notre Dame's twenty seven losses came from teams who are ranked in the top thirteen in the nation. Six of these losses came at the hands of the extremely talented Michigan squad, which has twenty one player's who have been drafted by the NHL. 
The Irish were also faced with the burden of putting together a team with only twelve scholar­ships while most of their league rivals had upwards of eighteen. 
''I'm not happy, but I'm not disappointed," said Schafer. "I wish we could have done bet­ter." 
One ray of light for the Irish this season has been the out­standing play of Ling, who was recently named to the CCHA All-Rookie Team. 
Ling finished with fourteen goals and twenty six assists for a team leading forty points. His thirteen goals and twenty two assists in league play place him third among freshmen in the CCHA. 
On receiving the honor he said, "I'm happy, but I'd just assume still be playing right now." 
His teammates certainly feel that he is worthy of the com­mendation. 
"Jamie's a good player," said Janicke. "He's very smart and very skilled." 
"He's very gifted with the puck and he has great vision of the ice," Marvin said. "I think that sets him apart from just an average player." 
Ling is also a strong candi­date for CCHA Rookie-of-the­Year. 
"It would be nice to get it, but I'm not expecting to," he said. "If I get it, fine, but I won't be disappointed if I don't." 
The Irish will be working hard over the ofT-season to im­prove on strength and quick­ness. They have already signed two highly touted recruits and are expected to announce the signing of a few more recruits in the near future. 
They will be aided in the recruiting process by the increase in scholarships from twelve to thirteen and a half. 
THE OBSERVER SPORTS STAFF. .. 
regrets the absence of or slim coverage for lacrosse, hockey, fencing, softball and men's and women's golf. The storm on the east coast stranded a number of writers. Full results will be given later this week as writers arc able to return. 
SPOR"fS BRIEFS 

Sailing Club Meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Farley Hall basement. All are welcome to attend. No experience neces­sary. For more info call Tucker Snedeker 634-1765. 
A women's safety and self-defense course begins tonight at the Rockne Memorial rm 301. Class is open to students and staff and meets from 5-6:10 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays. There is a $19registration fee, which includes all 12 sessions. Call RecSports at 631-6100 for more info. 
Lothrop left the game after r--------------------------------------------------,
the second period after saving eighteen of the twenty four shots he faced. 
Senior Carl Picconato entered in the third period and allowed two goals on eight shots. Irish sophomore John Rushin scored his first goal of the season 2:49 into the period to give Notre Dame its second and final tally of the evening. 
The Wolverines outshot the Irish 20-9 in the first period and 41-32 in the game. Although they were scoreless in five power play attempts7 the Irish did an outstanding job of shutting down the potent Wolverine power play, which has a .267 success rate. Michi­gan was scoreless in nine of ten power plays. 
The Irish were unable to turn around their performance on Saturday night, as the Wolver­ines scored the first six goals of the game. Notre Dame sopho­more Jeff Hasselman cut the lead to 6-1 with 9:29 remaining in the third period. 
His seventh goal of the season, which was assisted by senior defenseman Eric Gregoire, occurred while the teams were skating four on four. 
With 98 penalty minutes, freshman Brett Bruininks entered Saturday night's contest only three minutes shy of the Notre Dame single season record. 
He missed the record, however, by competing through the game without spending a single minute in the penalty box. 
Lothrop started in goal and saved twenty eight of thirty six shots. The Irish once again manhandled the Wolverine power play, which scored only once in seven attempts. 
"I would say that it really wasn't our best effort," Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer 
Mendoza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins 
Accessories• Repairs 
241 U.S. 33 N. 
1 mile North of 
Saint Mary's 
272-7510 

May 1993 Graduates 

Personalized Graduation Announcements 
by Balfour 
(Sample text only) 
Tfie Presi&nt, TnLStees anc[ Facuity ofthe 
printed with gold from the 
Universio/ of Notre Dame Notre Dame dome. 
are pfmsm w amwunce tfutt Deborah M. Sasso 
is ac.andUtate for the degree of 
Student name, degree 
Bachefor ofScience
and major personalized .-::.:::::..---+---~ 

into the text on each announcement. 
$16.95 for package flS, including 2 envelop each. 
add'l packs of 5@ S5.65/pack 




'University of?{gtrt '])arru 
'University of?{gtrt '1Janu 

%anl(~ou 
at the 
One Huncfrec£ Forty-eigfitfi .Annua[ Comm.encemmt 
onS~ 
May 16, 1993 


Notre Dame Note Cards S7.00 per box of 10 
(includes envelopes) 

Order NOW by mail to: Balfour/ Ed O'Neil 2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. Suite 500 Indianapolis, IN 46241 


fax: 317/241-0430 
Notre Dame Thank You's S7.00 per box of I 0 
(includes envelopes) 
Order in erson: Wed., Thurs., March 17, 18 and Tues., Wed., March 2 3, 24 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. 
LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room, 1st t1oor 
A completed order form MUST accompany payment. Forms are available in the Registrar's Office. With questions call (317) 241-5000. Please, no phone orders. 
Today 
Tuesdsay, March 16, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 

Wf CAN WRtft-Off IHI'S
HELLO, LOII£R.S OF RIC.\-\ 
DO-r.JoT\tiNV7, f/IIL®-ffiQMIS!;'
POL11l(AL SATIRE, WDf\'1 
A5 Ft BAD fiRE.Atvl.

"I:'D UK£ 10 MAKE-A 5 OiJ,Cnt"SllOI'I 10 · THt 1WO CANDIDA,.-e;S RUNNtf'./{n ~ 
61ZfiDUAlt SIUD€NT UNI{)IJ Pl\f.SIDE:NI. 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
i DOI'\1 Wl\1-.11 TO 'SIIH>'{. 

' I Do~\ Wll-NI 1\t-\'{ IE'STS. I \)ONT Wfl-NI ~N~ 
1-\0tv\£-'tlORK. 
I 
~~~ 


"And then wham! This thing just came right out of left field." 
Cross-w-ord 
Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 
..

ACROSS 25 Harsh 59 Approaches 
28 Touches up an GO Ailments

1 Rickenbacker 
~ ·~v:::.old painting 62 Hamlet, e.g. '·'!S«:lUliimLr, ·EConomic Integration in the w~,.,t.,.rnt
and von Richthofen 33 Worship 63 Memorable ..•. <tnd .Pr()spects for the 1990s," Roberto 5 Orinoco feeder Research Fellow FLACSO and CONICET,
34 Counterfeit diva: 1858-1942 10 Sonny's ex 35 Barber's call 64 Hawaiian bird Room C-103 Hesburgh Center for International 14 Lath 36 Landed 65 Soothsayer §tu.die:s;>~;ponso,red by Kellogg Institute, n<. ;r: 37 Probers 66 French pronoun
15 French historian: 1823-92 40 Person involved 67 Capricorn's 
with nos. symbol

t&Japanese aborigine 41 City inS France 
43 Penury17 Take measured 

DOWN 
steps 44ln imitation of 18 Magnificent 46 Scorned 1 Nile viper 19 Slog 48 Manly 2Chela 3 Every's partner 
20 Start of a quip 49 Ref. book 4 Clambake item 
50 Dinner for Gross Domitian 5 Sock style 24 Defendants, in 51 End of the quip & Runner on Nov. law 58 Seed coat 3, 1992 7 Two-toed sloth a McNally's partner 
23 Cartoonist 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Ratifier 10 Heading 11 Hawaiian port 12 FitzGerald's "enough" 31 Oust 50 Arc 54 Freshwater 13 Boorish 51 Paper-money duck
32 Fixed look 

21 Spent rolls 55 Corridor 
34 Run away 

22Gain 52 "Dies-," 56 Does it better 25 Type of bar Latin hymn butter?
38 Settle securely 

26 Roman official 39 New Orleans 53 Electrical wire 57 A forearm bone 27 Exercises a footballer circuit &t Place franchise 
42 Orthographist ...28 Ranted 
45 Raveling29 Supplemented, Get answers to any three clues
47 Tavern

with "out" 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
30 Correct: Comb. 48 Mona Van Duyn 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0202
form products 



....------------------------------------------------~--­
Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, March 16, 1993 
Irish baseball off to rough start 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Here's a little analogy to de­scribe how the Notre Dame baseball team's spring break trip went. It's like if the Irish football team beat Michigan and Colorado or the men's bas­ketball team defeated Duke and Seton Hall, in ONE week. 
The 16th-ranked Irish (2-3) headed out west for a seven­game roadtrip and bested two top-1 0 teams in a week. Ari­zona State, then ranked 6th, fell first in a 11-4 Irish victory last Monday. Six days later then 7th­ranked Wichita State became 

the second vietim of the 1993 season in a 8-6 ND win. In between the two games, 
· the Irish lost to Arizona, then ranked 8th nationally, twice (19-6, 10-9), the California An­gels (10-1) and Wichita State once (14-11). A third game with the Shockers was cancelled due to weather. 
Notre Dame head coach Pat Murphy felt the trip was a good experience. 
"I think we performed very. very well, but I gotta be honest, I expected it. I expected to do well. I expected to play well. We didn't play nearly to our capa­bilities. We easily eould have had four victories, but you've got to be encouraged coming out of the chute ... but we've got a long way to go. We didn't even seratch the surface of how good we could be. But, we did wake up and say, 'If these are the best teams in the country, and they truly are, we're pretty close."' 
Irish senior captain Eddie Hartwell added, "Overall, we did a lot of good things. We swung the bat well and we didn't give up in any of the games. That we continued to fight and to battle back showed this team's blue collar attitude." 
In a week which Hartwell de­scribed as a "great confidence builder," several members of the Notre Dame squad con­tributed in the wins. 
Against Arizona State (16-7­1), senior Chris Michalak stifled the Sun Devils from the mound allowing only eight hits and four runs in nine innings of work in the 11-4 victory. 
"He was tough," Arizona State third baseman Antone Williamson said of Michalak. "He jammed me four times. I knew it was coming every time and I couldn't do anything about it." 
At the plate, the Irish knocked ASU starter Mike Rensmeyer ofT Paul Failla and Eric Danapilisthe mound in the second inning notching their first home runs 
.. after scoring a run in the first of the year. Also eontributing at and two in the second. the plate were Greg Layson who The Irish bats were lively in went 4 for 5 with a double and the game with Craig DeSensi, a triple and drove in four runs 

Notre Dame hoops finish disappointing seasons 
Men fall in ten of final eleven 
By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 

LOUISVILLE -When the Irish took the floor against the Louisville Cardinals a week ago Sunday for their final game of the 1992-93 season, they weren't playing for an NCAA bid. Or, for that matter, an NIT bid. 
But it's almost a cliche that a team with no hope of a post-season invitation tries to win its final game to set a good 
tone for the next season. If that truly is the ease, then maybe Notre Dame should 


look ahead to its trip 

to Europe this ,,.. -J.... summer to get a good ...... ,... ­feeling .for next ~ear. John MicLeod 
Playmg aga)nst a Cardinal team that played as if it was looking forward to the Metro Tournament and an automatic bid for the NCAAs, the Irish showed signs of improvement before sliding in the second half. eventually falling 83-68. 
Monty Williams was again the main man for the Irish and if not for his efforts, the margin could have been even larger. He had the game of his career offensively, scoring 34 points on 12-18 shooting, grabbing 11 rebounds, more than twiee as many as anyone else on the Irish. 
Only one other player-Jason 
Williams-scored in double figures for Notre Dame, with 13. 
But the Irish shot better than in the past, hitting at 47 percent for the game, while Louisville shot the same per­centage. Statistically, rebounding wasn't the problem, as the Cardinals managed only two more boards than the Irish. The real problem was Louisville's smothering press that forced the Irish into 18 turnovers. 
Coming out of the half, Notre Dame was still within striking distance, trying to cut into the Cardinals' 35-31 lead, but the next four and a half minutes made things a bit more difficult for the Irish. 
Louisville's star forward Clifford Rozier set the tone with a monster dunk ofT of a missed shot to spur a 15-5 run, putting the Cards up by 12. 
But Notre Dame didn't look like they were quite done yet. The Irish ran their own press and scored a fast-break lay­up for Jon Ross. 
The Cardinals' inside game proved to be too much for the Irish and Louisville started to get easy inside baskets while Notre Dame was relying on Monty Williams. Williams scored 9 of 11 Notre Dame points from the 14:55 mark until 
5:47 remained in the game. 
Only one problem -for five of those minutes the Irish could manage only three points, while Louisville scored 10 to increase their lead to 64-47. From 
see MEN/ page 14 

and Hartwell who went 2 for 5 with two runs batted in. "I think it pumped us full of true eonfidence that said 'Hey, 
see BASEBALL/ page 15 

First round exit ends high hopes 
loss to Dayton in the first­round of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament. 
In the regular-season finale against the Aces, the Irish got 17 points ofT the beneh from junior Sherri Orlosky to secure the No. 3 seed in the conference tournament. 
The win was MuiTet Mc­Graw's 116th as Notre Dame's coach, lifting her past Mary DiStanislao as the winningest women's basketball coach in history. 
But the reeord didn't satisfy her. 
"The only record we're coneerned about is five straight MCC championships," McGraw said. 
It wasn't to be as the Irish lost their first MCC tournament game ever. 
With the tournament at the Joyce ACC, McGraw was confident that the team could use the homeeourt advantage as a springboard to the title. 
see WOMEN/ page 16 

IT 


~~;i 

TENNIS
HOCKEY 

SWIMMING 
Men's tennis struggles over
lnagural year in 

Notre Dame teams wrap 
break, but satisfied with 
CCHA ends with 

up year at Easterns. 
performance.
first round loss. 
see pages 13, 16 
see page 17 
see page 18 





