

Monday, September 6, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 6 
Pandora's expands in 
relocation 
By NANCY DUNN News Writer 
Over the summer, Pandora's Books moved out of their small "bookmobile" location and inio a 9000 square foot store less than two miles from the Notre Dame campus, according to owner Mandy Arnold. 
For many students, Pandora's is a welcome alter­native to the high prices and long lines at the Notre Dame bookstore. Pandora's sells new and used books and wilf also special order books for students. 
"Pandora's is cheaper than the bookstore and the staff is very helpful," said Honora Buckley, a Notre Dame sopho­more. 
Arnold, who is pleased with 
·the new location, stressed that the store is still being set up. She plans to provide ser­vices such as faxing and photocopying but said it will probably be next year before these services are available. 
Currently, Pandora's is open from 10-6 from Monday through Saturday and 9-3 on Sunday. The store will also be open on Friday evenings for weekly book giveaways .. 
Arnold plans to hold book signings and has invited writ­ers such as Don Yeager and Doug Looney, co-authors of "Under the Tarnished Dome: How Notre Dame Betrayed Its Ideals for Football Glory." 
"We may not always agree with every book, but everyone should have access to any book they desire to read,'' said Arnold. 
Pandora's will also celebrate Banned Book Week again this September in order to "call at­tention to the fact that books are still being banned every­day." 
Any literary groups inter­ested in holding readings or book signings should contact Arnold about using the store's upstairs area. 
The ~;;:i~~,''Mcl:)~== 
Ish Hall freshman Christian Turner studies in the window of her room. Now that classes are in full swing, students are searching cam­pus to find a quiet place to relax and study. 


Police narrow suspects in string ofLafayette thefts 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Associate News Editor 
Police have linked the recent break-ins at Lafayette Square Townhomes to one person who has been hitting the entire east side of South Bend, according to Chris Matteo, owner of the complex. 
No arrest has been made at this time, according to Jim Caldwell, assistant to the mayor. 
A fourth robbery occurred in between 9:30 and 10:30 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 2, Matteo said. 
The burglar entered the resi­dence through the side base­ment window after unsuccess­fully trying to pry open the back sliding glass door, accord­ing to Matt Kelly. one of the four Notre Dame seniors living there. 
Two TVs, two stereos, a CD player, a telephone, computer keyboard and one student's checkbook were stolen, Kelly said. 
In response to the incidents and the safety concerns of the residents at Lafayette, the own­ers of the complex released a newsletter detailing the extra security measures being taken. They include: 
• 
working closely with the Police Department and Mayor's office to help with the investigation and provide extra surveillance of the area; 

• 
contacting the basement windows to the current alarm system; and 

• 
hiring outside security ser­vice to patrol on a full-time ba­sis which would entail foot and mobile patrol, particularly dur­ing football games when most students are away, crowd con­trol and towing of nonresident vehicles. 


"In return, the students living there are asked to control their parties so the police are not distracted from their main goal of surveillance," Matteo said. 
Tenants are also being asked to use their alarm systems, call in anything suspicious and be smart in general when leaving their places by leaving lights on, closing blinds and curtains and even turning on TVs and radios to make their place ap­pear occupied, he added. 
"We're doing everything we can and hope the students will do the same," he said. "It needs to be a joint effort." 


Gore plans to eliminate governmental waste 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The White House hopes to save $108 billion over five years by improving the way government works and making it operate with fewer people, officials said Sunday. 
Vice President Al Gore's re­port on overhauling govern­ment operations will outline changes in the federal bureau­cracy that would result in the loss of 252,000 federal jobs, said an aide to the vice presi­dent, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
"As our reinventing govern­ment begins to liberate agen­cies from over-regulation, we no longer will need 285,000 separate supervisory staff and 585,000 'system control' staff to support them," reads a draft of the National Performance Review report. "Instead, we will encourage more of our 2.2 million federal employees to become managers of their own work." 
The recommendations would reduce the federal workforce by 12 percent, bringing it below the two million mark for the first time since 1966, The Washington Post reported Sunday. 
Gore and President Clinton will unveil their plans Tuesday to eliminate or consolidate wasteful programs, allow the private sector to compete for government business, cut red tape that saddles efficient gov­ernment workers, expand the use of modern office technolo­gies such as computers and make the bureaucracy more user-friendly. 
The report is not expected to specify where the federal jobs will be lost, leaving those deci­sions to the agencies. It is ex­pected to call for increasing the ratio of managers to workers from 1-to-7 to 1-to-15. 
Workers who would no longer be needed in the leaner govern­ment would be offered buyouts, early retirements, training or transfers. 
Administration officials tried Sunday to make sure their plans to "reinvent government" don't get sidetracked by talk about job losses. One Gore aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the plans are not for across-the-board cuts, but for "natural reductions" that come with changing gov­ernment operations. 
Gore's report points out that in 1992, the government em­ployed 67,000 people involved in purchases, a 64 percent in­crease from 1980. 
"These numbers document what most federal workers and many taxpayers already know: Our system relies on rigid rules and procedures, extensive pa­perwork, detailed design speci­fications, multiple inspections and audits. It is an extraordi­nary example of bureaucratic red tape," the draft report says. 
His plan: Give agencies more power to buy materials on their own and make it easier to make the purchases items without reams of red tape. 


Clinton proposes tax cap for excess health benefits 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton will seek to make companies and individual workers pay taxes on health benefits that exceed the na­tionally guaranteed benefit package he is proposing, senior White House officials say. 
Clinton will proceed with the plan in the face of a warning by the AFL-CIO that it might op­pose the program if it includes a 
tax on any health benefits. 
The so-called tax cap is an essential feature of the "man­aged competition" concept from which Clinton has bor­rowed some of his reform ideas. Currently companies can deduct the entire cost of their health plans as a business ex­pense, and employees pay no taxes on them no matter how generous the plan. 
Clinton plans to guarantee all Americans a comprehensive package of benefits, covering preventive services, emergency care, doctor bills and a wide range of other medical expens­es. Employers would be expect­ed to pay 80 percent of the cost of an average policy, and employees the other 20 per­cent. 
The tax cap would come into play where a worker chooses a health policy that costs more than the basic benefit package, which the White House esti­mates at $1,800 for an individ­ual policy and $4,200 for a fam­ily policy. 
While the average company now spends about $4,000 on health policies for its workers, some employees have coverage that costs twice that much. 
In an effort to assuage orga­nized labor, the tax cap would be phased in over several years, administration officials said Saturday. 
And workers whose unions have won extensive health ben­efits in the past may get as long as eight to 10 years before they would be fully subject to the tax cap, said one official who. like others, spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The rationale is that it gives them "enough time to get back whatever wage increase was forgone for that health benefit," said the official. Unions would be able to keep some or all of the tax break for the life of existing contracts and through their next round of contract. he said. 
"We're not anticipating much {revenue) on the tax cap in the first couple of years," the offi­cial said, adding that it would probably not be more than a few billion dollars a year for the rest of this decade. 

It remains to be seen whether organized labor would accept such a tax, even with a long-phase in. AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland said Aug. 16 after Clinton gave governors a broad outline of his plans. 
"The president has pointed the nation in the right direction. ... We hope and expect to be able to give the president's plan our full support when we see the details next month," Kirkland said. 
The idea of making employ­ees more cost-conscious by making them pay taxes on their health benefits has been sup­ported by a number of Republican and Democratic lawmakers, including Rep. Jim Cooper, D-Tenn.. and Sen. Christopher Bond, R-Mo. 


Monday, September 6, 1993
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 
Notre Dame: Home of the 


SUrcharge 

Notre Dame, how do you screw me? Let me count the ways. 
Every summer, Notre Dame students work 60­hour weeks to pay for their educations. We do not work all summer to pay for The Shirt. We do not work all summer to see Northwestern play football. And we do not work all 
summer for Chicken Rolando de AguiarTetrazzini. 
But as soon as Viewpoint Editor Touchdown Jesus begins to rise over the horizon, -------­
the lady on the dome begins to bludgeon us with surcharges. 
As soon as freshmen receive the keys to their dorm room, they are whacked with a hall tax o up to $50. This money goes to pay for hall SYRs and formals, at which our friends do things they will regret, and we take pictures forcing them to remember. 
A couple of days later, the football ticket application arrives in the mai. It demands $81.00 for six football tickets, half of which give every student the opportunity to see such gems as Northwestern, Michigan State and Pittsburgh. Perhaps we'd be happier if student tickets were free. But by now, we've all learned that nothing is really free. Maybe we'd be bliss­fully happier if the fee for football tickets were buried in that of student activities, but we'd be 'ust as poor. 
With the application comes a coupon to be part of a television extravaganza: The Shirt. For only $10, four dollars less than the ridiculous regular price, any student can have a The Shirt. We can be part of a display which makes a sin­gular statement to everybody watching Notre Dame Saturday: "I am a mindless piece of the glorious scheme for Catholic domination." 
After the game, we are attacked by unshaven 
individuals with whiskey on their breath. No, 
these are not alumni, and they are not bein 
chummy. These scumbags are students, and 
they're frying to sell you something. The prod­
uct, again, is t-shirts. But these shirts are color­
less, ugly, and covered with such witty slogans 
as "Shut up and drink" and "Friends don't let 
friends beer goggle." The leaders of the univer­
sity, either because these shirts embarrass 
them or because they see no possibility for 
material gain, discourage their sale. 
Later on, more surcharges appear. Apparently legitimate, the tickets to concerts and comedy shows have fair prices. But they're organized by various arms of the Student Activities Office. What ever happened to the $55 activities fee we paid before the semester began? 
And how can the Huddle charge anything for 
their greasy hamburgers and "Chinese" food, 
when we're paying some $2,000 dollars to 
University Food Services for the slop at their 
dining halls? The garbage at the Huddle and 
the Oak Room should be just as free as the 
trash at the dining halls. 
Every year, we spend big money on football 
tickets, campus concerts and trashy t-shirts. We 
will continue to do so unless someone can lead 
us not into temptation. 
I'd ask the lady on the dome for her help, but 
she seems to be part of the problem. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News John Lucas Sarah Doran Michael O'Hara  Lab Tech John Bingham  
Spons Jonathan Jensen George Dohrmann  Production Whitney Sheets Kathie Young  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during eum :and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of !he Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




LOS ANGELES In accordance with his wishes, there will be no memorial for "Fantasy Island" actor Herve Villechaize, his publicist said Sunday. Villechaize, who committed suicide Saturday, had said he wanted to allow a doctor specializing in dwarfism to study his remains, then have his body cremated and the ashes distributed at sea, said publicist David Brokaw. The actor wanted no funeral, he said. Villechaize, 50, 
ade his wishes known in conversations with his companion, Kathy Self, but gave no indica­he was going to take his life, Brokaw said. The died Saturday of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, w said. He said Villechaize left a note saying he despondent because of poor health. Villechaize, suffered medical problems because of his under-lungs, had nearly died of pneumonia a year ago. is routine in suspected suicide cases, police humi­investigators and the county Coroner's Office ,..,£ .... .,.investigating the death. Villechaize, who was 3­ot-11, played Ricardo Montalban's comic sidekick, 
on "Fantasy Island," which ran on ABC from 1978 through 1984. The French-born actor was also a supporting player onstage and in films during the 1960s and 1970s. 
Bush giving attention to homefront 
ATLANTA Former President Bush says he is giving more atten­tion these days to things closer to home than he could in the White House, like listening to the scream of a 4­month-old grandson. "Such lung power," he told a crowd of 75,000 Amway distributors. "I'm convinced he will be an American senator." Bush also spoke in half-hour address Saturday of learning to play tendo, from an 8-year-old grandson. He also said 


Clinton's health reform package 
Key features of President Clinton's promised health reform package, as disclosed Saturday by senior administration officials: 
...,. Hospitalization ...,. Emergency care ...,. Physician and other 
professional services ...,. Prescription drugs 

Consumers would have a choice of managed care plans as well as a traditional fee-for-service plan. 
...,. 
..,. 
he could think of no better setting to make his ...,. 
'largest-audience speech since leaving public housing  
January" than at the conference "surrounded by  ·  
5,000 pieces of the American dream."  ...,.  
...,.  

..,. Post-hospital care in a skilled 
nursing facility or at home ...,. Mental health services ...,. Preventive care 

Managed care plans: ...,. Fee-for-service plans: 
Employers and employees would split the cost of premiums for the basic plan on an 80-20 basis. Types of policy and costs (actual figures would vary from state to state): 
Individual policy: $1 ,800 

An adult and children: $3,700 

Family: $4,200  
. Health msurance: Employers would pay no more than 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent of payroll toward health insurance.  Small businesses might pay as little as 3.5 percent.  

Patients would pay 20 percent of charges after meeting a $200 deductible for individuals and $400 for a family. The 20 percent co-payments would stop after an individual ran up bills of $1,500 a year or a family spent $3,000. 
Individuals would 
contribute up to 1.9 
percent of their wages. 

. Routine eye.~nd ear exams would be covered, subject to the 20 percent co-payments. Well-baby visits. Children's eyeglasses and preventive dental services. 
...,. Adults would get preventive dental care starting in the year 2000. 
...,. Some health plans might pay for chiropractic and acupuncture; some may not. · 
APIA. Toro 
Aspects of Clinton's new health plan have sparked concernea react1c
Leno to appear on Lewis' telethon 

rom both labor and business groups. Many are wary about issues of C• LAS VEGAS nd implementation of some of the plan's finer points. See related story Celebrities galore, including Jay Leno, Garth Brooks L..-a.._e_1_.-----------------------­

Carol Burnett, were on tap for the 28th annual Labor Day telethon, with Jerry Lewis as host again despite perennial criticism by a group of disabled activists. Opponents of Lewis and the telethon threatened to sound off again this year, with protests planned at some of the 200 television sta­tions carrying the telethon. The oppo­nents contend Lewis and the show use pity to coax contributions from viewers. Lewis and MDA officials deny the accusations, although recent telethons have been care­


to take a more positive approach in showcasing the 
laCJtne'ventents of the disabled. 
Parents coming out against Barney 

DAVIE, Fla. 
"I hate you, you hate me. Let's hang Barney from a tree." Parents who catch themselves inventing such venomous vers­es about the purple object of their preschool child's squealing adoration can now join the club. It's called The I Hate Barney Secret Society. "You don't have to tell your kids you belong," is the motto of the club founded by Robert Curran, an adver­tising salesman whose 2 1/2-year-old daughter Michelle­Christine is "an extreme Barney fan, if not an addict." "I love Barney! I love Barney!" she squeals, hugging her Barney 
toy. The singing dinosaur has led "Barney & Friends" the top of public TV's children's series. Parents not driv stark, staring bonkers by the phenomenon will spend mo than $200 million this year on related merchandise. Oth parents are willing to send Curran 50 cents and a se addressed, stamped envelope to join his club. "I am sick Barney," Greg Hudson writes from Richmond, Va. "What c we parents do to deserve this?" Donna L. of Hollywo blames her failure to conceive on terror about bringi another Barney fan into the world. FOB (Fear of Barney) severely afflicts some, she writes, they "refuse to s 'Jurassic Park' for fear they will spot the loathsome puq creature cavorting in the forest, singing one of his patron ing little songs." "There's a thin line between satire a hatred," ·said Curran, who insists he doesn't really ha Barney and started the club as a joking neighborho' newsletter that struck some raw nerves. Curran and w Diane have been varying their daughter's interests a. learning to "just say no to Barney." However, Mrs. Curran expecting another child in December, and worries: "I shu der to think if this one is a big Barney fan. Another few yeCJ would be murder." 

NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 6.
Monday, Sept. 6 Accu-Weather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor lhe day. 

WARM STATIONARY 0 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

HL ~ ~ §I~ {) !::1 U
a [I!! 0 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORAIS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. ct.OUOY ct.OUOY

Vio-­
H L 

Dallas 93 63 Moscow 64 46
Athens 86 66 

Jerusalem 79 61 New York 86 66
AUanta 89 68 

London 61 52 Paris 66 52
Boston 75 63 

Los Angeles 83 65 Philadelphia 86 67
Chicago 76 58 

Madrid 86 64 Rome 84 64
----........--~---------------~----------------l 
Monday, September 6, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Defendant won't testify in racial beating trial 
By JAMES MARTINEZ abducted him New Year's Day 
Associated Press near Tampa and forced him to drive to a remote field, where they doused him with gasoline
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
and set him ablaze. 

One of two white laborers ac­
Authorities say the attack oc­

cused of burning a black tourist 
curred at 9 a.m., but defense 

decided not to testify in his de­
witnesses testified that they

fense. Meanwhile, witnesses 
saw Rourk around that time at 

said Sunday the other man was 
his trailer-park home 40 miles 

at home miles away when the away.
attack occurred. 
Carla Wade said she was 

After burn victim Christopher 
pulling up rose bushes when 

Wilson testified last week that 
she saw Rourk out walking his 

Mark Kohut and Charles Rourk dog about 8:15a.m. 
were the men who set him afire, attorneys for Kohut con­
"He was walking his pit bull, 

sidered having him take the 
Caesar," she said in videotaped 

witness stand in his defense. 
testimony. "I had thorns in my

But they said before proceed­
fingers. I had to look up and I 

ings began Sunday that Kohut saw him." 
would not testify. Rourk's at­
Timothy Barkley, another 

torneys did not indicate 
resident, said he spent New 

whether he would take the 
Year's Eve with Rourk at a bar 
stand. 
and the two returned to Barkley's trailer to play video 

Kohut, 27, and Rourk, 33, games.
could be sentenced to life in 
"He fell asleep on the couch 

prison if convicted of attempted 
and he woke up at 5 a.m.,"

murder, kidnapping and rob­
Barkley said. "It took me till 
bery. 
about 5:30 to get him out of the 



Wilson, a New York stock 
house." 

brokerage clerk, said the two 
LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1994-95 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
Michigan Road Trip 
Catch the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan September 11th 
Round trip bus transportation to Michigan Stadium (bus leaves at 6 a.m. from CCE) Donuts and juice provided 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 7 

EXPENSIVE~--. 
It's purely delicious Culligane Drinking Water in a bottle. Call your local Culligan Man today. You can pay more, but you can't get better. 
Call 289-6371 to enjoy Culligan. bottled 
water delivered right to your door. 
Here,s lookin, at you, kid! 
Happy 20th Big Ben! 
From Your Roomies 

Monday, September 6, 1993 
Arabs gather support for Mideast peace proposal 
Brazil mourns massacre victims 
Many of the shantytown's in Vigario Geral, tw9 days be­
By GARY RICHMAN 
children cry out at night, and fore the massacre. The four
Associated Press 
only 150 of 500 public school killed in the ambush were sell­students returned to classes ing arms to drug traffickers,RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil 
Friday. civil police said. 
Nine widows and dozens of ''I'm living a nightmare that Previous reports suggested
orphans went to Mass on 
won't stop," said Iracema they were kHled by drug traf­
Sunday to mourn for 21 shan­Medeiros, whose husband, fickers. The testimony supports tytown residents massacred a Antonio, the owner of a bar. allegations that military police 
week ago. Meanwhile, new ev­idence in the case has led to the was murdered along with seven death squads operate in the 
shantytown and carried out last arrests of military police customers. 

Civil police Friday found 17 week's massacre.
agents. 
black hoods, laser technology
Still shocked by the 30 black­weapons, machine guns and A key witness survivor, Jadirhooded assassins who sprayed stolen car keys at the home of a Santos, 38, disappeared after
the shantytown center with 
military police agent, leading to released from a hospital
gunfire Aug. 30, many resi­
dents of the Vigario Geral the arrests of five agents. Thursday and the captain re­
Authorities said the agents sponsible for his safety was be­neighborhood feared more in­were members of the "gallop­lieved to~ be a member of the
vasions. "I'm afraid bullets will come ing horses," an extermination death squad. 
through the door," said 13-squad that massacred 11 street Rio residents were shocked children in 1991. by the July 23 killings of eight 
year-old Eliane Ferreira, whose Civil police said Sunday that street children as they slept infather was gunned down. 
new testimonies indicated a the shadow of a church. Three 
"I can't sleep at night any death squad of military police military policemen and one civilian were arrested for that
more. I still here shots ringing agents ambushed four other 
military police agents Aug. 28 crime and remain in custody.
out," she sobbed. 
1993 Activities Night 
Tuesday, September 7 7-10 p.m. JACC (Gate 3) 
~fl U®:ID ©l®~ ~ ©UW)®UU~000 
tQ meet your interests: 
•Music Clubs 
•Athletic Societies 
•Special Interest Clubs 
•Academic Clubs 
•Social/Service Organizations 
•Ethnic Clubs 
•Media Organizations 
Meet New Friends Get Involved in the Spirit of ND/SMC 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, Club Coordination Coundl and the Center for Social Concerns 
ByROUBAASADI 
Associated Press 

DAMASCUS, Syria 
President Hafez Assad added his support to the lsraeli-PLO peace accord on Sunday, saying he backed the Palestinian peo­ple's right to make their own decisions. 
The endorsement from Assad, a key player, came after he met for six and a half hours with PLO chief Yasser Arafat. Arafat also visited Egypt Sunday as he struggled to sell the peace agreement. 
Radical groups throughout the Middle East, meanwhile, threatened to step up their campaign against the plan, which would establish Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. Iran also denounced the deal. 
Opponents have branded the 
accord a sellout that contains 
no guarantees for an indepen­
dent Palestinian state. 

There also were obstacles in 
Israel, which balks at recogniz­
ing the Palestine Liberation 
Organization until it pledges to 
delete references to Israel's 
destruction from its charter. 
But officials said they thought 
the differences could be re­
solved and the accord signed in 
Washington by Sept. 13. 

Assad's comments, reported 
by spokesman Jibran Kourieh, 
indicated he will not oppose the 
Gaza-Jericho plan as long as 
Arafat can gain the 
Palestinians' backing. 

Kourieh said Assad stressed 
"Syria's support for the rights 
of the brotherly Palestinian 
people, who, together with 
their institutions, have the right 
to decide what they see suit­
able." 

family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Reg1s CorporatiOn 1992 

277-3770 

Syria's state-run media have criticized Arafat for not coordi­nating beforehand with the other Arab parties to the Mideast peace process: Syria, Jordan and Lebanon. 
Syria's support is crucial be­cause it influences Damascus­based radical Palestinian fac­tions that have put up some of the most vehement opposition to the Gaza-Jericho deal. 
Egypt, which signed a peace treaty with Israel in 1979, sup­ports the Gaza-Jericho accord and has reportedly been trying to mediate between Arafat and Assad, longtime adversaries. 
Israel's Cabinet approved the 
autonomy plan last week. 
Arafat won support for the 
proposal on Saturday from his 
Fatah faction, the PLO's most 
important group. 
But Palestinian officials have 
reported that influential mem­
bers of Fatah and senior PLO 
officers are digging in to fight 
the plan. 
Many members of the PLO's 
ruling Executive Committee, 
with whom Arafat is expected 
to meet this week, reportedly 
oppose the pbin. 
Arafat contends, however, 
that he does not need the ap­
proval of another group, the 
Palestine National Council. He 
has come under fire for refus­
ing to convene the council, 
which serves as a Palestinian 
parliament-in-exile. 
En route to Damascus from 
his headquarters in Tunis, 
Arafat stopped in Cairo, where 
he met with Foreign Minister 
Amr Moussa and spoke to 
President Hosni Mubarak by 
telephone. 
"We're on the verge of final­
izing this agreement," Arafat 
told reporters in Cairo. 
Stu~ents can get great haircuts from professional styhs~s at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality 
~--------l~-------J ! ______ :__! 
:$1.00 Off: :$5.00 Off: :200fo Off : 
: Ha·lrcut i i Perm I I All Haircarel
I · I I ' Reg1s. Nexxus. Paul M1tchell. I I I I 81olage &Va Voom 1 
1 With student 10 1 1 With student 1.0 1 I With student I. D. I No double d1scounts No double discounts 
: .~;SBrC.95 : : : : No double discounts : 
L___ e_~JL~~e~~_JL~~erC~J 
MasterCuts 
Monday, September 6, 1993 

The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Religious right reacts to Clinton 
ByJOHN KING 
Associated Press 
CHESAPEAKE, Va. 
Editor's Note: The following is part one in a series 
In the ashes of George Bush's 
defeat, a young political orga­
nizer named Ralph Reed saw 
the seeds of revival. "For 
Christians," he says, "without a 
crucifixion there is no resur­
rection." 
Insurrection may be a more fitting word to describe Reed's ultimate political goal for the Christian right, but the Biblical metaphor is fitting: His is the business of mixing religion and politics. 
The movement is one of the country's most intriguing and controversial political forces. Still young, its potential in elec­tive politics has barely been tested. 
This year, in virtually every state, Christian conservatives are using evangelical and fun­damentalist churches -along with direct mail and television fund-raising appeals -as bases for a sophisticated orga­nizing effort that merges eager activists with state-of-the-art training and communications. 
The primary target is local politics -typically school and library boards. state legisla­tures, precinct and county Republican Party organizations. Already. conservative Christians can claim significant political success: 
• Effective control of Republican Party operations in 


KJc:c  Rcmbnlndt  
I...auucc  Remington  
Magriae  Rmoi:r  
Matisse  Rousseau  
Miro  Scunl  
Monca  Uaillo  
O'Kccrc  Van Gogh  
Picassc  Vennccr  

•••To name Only a Few! 

9am-5pm Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PHil__ _ _ ___ __ ~ILY ~17!
~ 


a handful of states, including Iowa, Virginia, South Carolina, Minnesota and Oregon. They hold considerable sway in many more, including California, Texas, Pennsylvania and much of the South. 
• 
Majorities on a small but growing number of school boards. 

• 
Top dollar fundraising. The movement is reaping tens of millions of dollars, fueled by opposition to President Clinton's policies. 


The explosion of political ac­tivity by religious conservatives helped Ronald Reagan to two landslide presidential victories. One of the movement's own, broadcaster Pat Robertson, bid for the 1988 GOP nomination ­and in the process awakened more activists. 
The most militant activists are blamed, in part, by moder­ate Republicans for President Bush's defeat last year, because of their high profile at last year's GOP convention. Religious right leaders dispute that, but many still believe a broader agenda is the path to a softer image. 
Democrat Clinton has given the movement fresh impetus, with his advocacy of abortion rights and his proposal to allow gays in the military. 
"We can't let a misguided army of liberals and homosex­uals make a mockery of our country, a mockery of moral values, a mockery of God's laws," reads a fund-raising let­ter from one televangelist allied with the Christian right, James Kennedy of Florida's Coral Ridge Ministries. 
It is such entwining of God . _and politics that angers, and 
frightens, the Christian right's 
critics. 
."This whole angle and tone 
of using the religious right, in a 
negative way, is very bigoted," 
said Tom Armstrong, a state 
legislator in Pennsylvania. 
"Some people say we shouldn't 
legislate morality. Every single 
piece of legislation has some 
moral impact." 
At issue in this debate is the 
public soul-searching over the 
most divisive of political issues 
-abortion, homosexuality, sex 
education, censorship, pornog­
raphy, school prayer. 
"It is quite clear that religion and especially the salience of religion to people makes a big impact on how they vote," said James Guth, a Furman University political scientist who has studied the religious right and its evolution from the Rev. Jerry Falwell's Moral Majority into the more sophisti­cated movement of today. 
Ralph Reed, 32, is Robertson's top political lieu­tenant, directing the Christian Coalition from a modest office in a southern Virginia indus­trial park. The offspring of Robertson's 1988 presidential campaign has chapters in every state, more than 400,000 con­tributing members and the names of another 300,000 peo­ple who have corresponded with the Coalition or taken part in some of its activities, Reed said. 
NEXT: The struggle for con­trol of local republican party. 
CORRECTION 
In a front page story in Fri­day's issue, The Observer in­correctly stated the cost of the new College of Business Administration complex cur­rently under construction. The complex will cost close to $23 million. 
In a separate story, a headline incorrectly stated that Saint Mary's will raise its student activity fee. It was raised at the beginning of the semester. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Writer 
Experienced writers with business knowledge for the business page. 
Contact Pancho or Meredith at 631-5323 for more information. 


Happy 18th to our 
''Pretty Girl No. 2'' 
(coming soon to a theater near you) 
Love, Mom, Dad, Erin, Brendan 
\ 
} 

OINT
{ 
page6 Monday, September 6, 1993
t 
\ { \ 
THE OBSERVER 
l \ 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 


RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

News Editor .........•...... Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .....•........ Rolando de Aguiar
( 
t 
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Michael Griffin will stand trial on September 20th for the March 1Oth murder of abortionist Dr. David Gunn in Pensacola. On August 19th, Rachelle Shannon shot and wounded late-term abortion­ist Dr. George Tiller in Wichita, Kansas. Mrs. Shannon has been charged with attempted murder. 
Some have defended these and other attacks on abor­tionists as an exercise of the moral and legal right to defend the life of a third per­son, the unborn child threat­ened by abortion. It may be useful here to review some reasons why such attacks are neither morally nor legally justified, in the context of the incongruities introduced into the law by legalized abortion. 
The common law or statuto­ry defense of necessity or jus­tification includes the privi­lege to defend a third party from attack. If, from the street, you saw an attack in progress inside a house, you would have a legal as well as moral right to commit what would otherwise be a trespass in order to enter that house to save the victim. If you did intervene, you would have a legal as well as a moral right to take action, including caus­ing injury or perhaps even death to the assailant, if that were apparently the only way to save the life of his victim. 
Ifyou were in the room with an abortionist as he were abQJ.I.t to perform an abortion, it could be fairly argued that you would have the moral right to use reasonable force to prevent that imminently threatened killing of the unborn child. It is inconceiv-
DOONESBURY 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager .................... .Anne He roman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
l 
I 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majority of the: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor,
f 
Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
~ 
I 
Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those: of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The: free expression ofvarying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

l Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNi~int 631-4541 Day EditorfProducrion 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840t Spons 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471
l 
CHARLES RICE 
Attacks on clinic doctors legally unjustified 
able, however, that deadly force would be necessary or justified, even in that situa­tion. In any event, the killing of Dr. Gunn was not an inescapably and imminently necessary act of justified defense. Rather, it was a pri­vately decreed execution. 
Whatever the applicability of the privilege to defend oth­ers to the abortion situation, there can be no justification for a private citizen to set himself up as judge, jury, and executioner of anybody. As recognized by Catholic teach­ing, the only situations in which anyone ever has the moral right intentionally and directly to kill anybody are capital punishment and just war. 
In both cases, the killing is by authority of the state, which derives its authority from God. The death penalty is inflicted on a person judged guilty of a capital crime and a just war is subject to the man­date of noncombatant immu­nity, which forbids the killing of innocent noncombatants. Whether in an otherwise just war or any other circum­stances, moreover, no one ever has the moral right intentionally and directly to kill an innocent human being. Even in self-defense or defense of others, the defend­er's intent must be to defend, rather than to kill. 
Roe v. Wade has corrupted the law by defining the inno­cent unborn child as a non­person who therefore has no constitutional rights and who may be executed at the dis­cretion of his mother. The necessity defense, however, is not limited to the protection of persons; it authorizes the use of necessary and reasonable force for the protection of human beings as well as ani­mals and other property. The Supreme Court could not change the reality tha·t the unborn child, whom it defined as a nonperson, is a human being. 
The result is a conflict of entitlements: the mother is entitled, by Court decree, to kill her child; other persons are entitled to protect a human being in danger, which the unborn child is. While no appellate court, state or federal. has upheld the necessity defense in the abortion context, it is not sur­prising that the legalized infliction of violence, in abor­tion, has caused some to respond, wrongly. in kind. This is so because Roe v. Wade has loosened the bonds of civil order by legalizing the intentional killing of the inno­cent. 
Abortion, as the deliberate killing of an innocent human being, is, in the moral sense, murder. The human law can­not validly permit murder. Despite the decree of the Supreme Court, abortuaries, which are murder factories, have no moral right to exist. However, it does not follow that any action, whatever, is justified if only it prevents abortions, The use of violence, whether lethal or non-lethal, against abortuaries and abor­tion "providers" is unjustified on several prudential grounds. 
It is not the most effective way to save lives of unborn children threatened by abor­tion. It is counterproductive in 

YfS, I J<.NOW. I ORO~ UP 1Hf3 POSS/811..-fTY CFMY8CIN6 

that it distracts attention from the real nature of the problem and diverts pro-life efforts away from more useful approaches. And it acceler­ates the disintegration of the civil order with predictably harmful impact on the com­mon good. 
The use of violence in the pro-life cause should be utter­ly rejected. If we attempt to combat the abortion move­ment with force, we oppose its strongest weapon, the coer­cive power of the state, with our weakest. Legalized abor­tion, moreover, is only mar­ginally a legal or political issue, At root it is a spiritual problem, a symptom of a pagan, contraceptive culture in which the autonomous indi­vidual, liberated from objec­tive moral standards, has made himself the arbiter of the ending as well as the beginning of life. 
The ultimate remedy for abortion is the re-conversion 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOO'Re A NO Pfl!J81..&M.

HeR& AS QUICJ<t.YA5I caJW. 6AY HA(j R&AUYGOTM8 
GXJ() FR!&N{) ru.. JUST

I'M A MAN IN CR./515, MIKE ... RATTUIJ. IF IT'S 7RJJ&, 
70 7AL.J< 7H/9 5/TOVeR
mTHING IN MVlAP& IAJIU.. 
aJTIAJITHM&, HeR&.
£-VEl< 8t CK.JIT& 7H& ~... 
M/K/3. 
~ 
\ 

of the American people to respect for God and His law which mandates our special concern for the weak and defenseless. 
While the nonviolent rescue movement has done much to dramatize the reality of abor­tion, the most effective on-site pro-life activity is the legal. peaceful prayer vigil with sidewalk counseling and referral to pregnancy help centers. These efforts are not spectacular, but they do save lives. And, unlike illegal dis­ruptive tactics, they can be carried on continuously. Overall, whether on site or elsewhere, the most effective, practical thing we can do to restore respect and protection for the right to life is to pray, especially the Rosary because the issue is life and Mary is the mother of Life. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
''We ~o~ have cre­anonlsm on an equal footing with evolu­
. ,tton.  
Deirdre Holloway  
School board president,  
Vista, Calif.  



CC6NT 

Monday, September 6, 1993 
page 7 

Shuttle drivers share 
The truth behind their e*perienees · LabOro;y, 

.· Special to the Observer 

ByMARADMS 
Accent Wrirer 
Some students race the big 
United Limo shuttle to the bus 
stop and dig through pockets 
for quarters. Others stand in­
side the moving vehicle, ready 
to wish the driver a good night 
before braving the weather 
waiting for them outside. 
The United Limo Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's shuttle ser­
vice sponsored by the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame, transports 
students between the two cam­
puses and the commuters also 
provide company for the dri­
vers, according to several 
United Limo drivers. 
Most drivers who work the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's route are part-time drivers working off bids for different routes, which include chartered rides to Chicago's O'Hare airport and Indianapolis, said Chuck Ran­dolph, a part-time driver and music teacher. 
Although most drivers are li­censed "large vehicle" drivers retired from other professions, Eston Gasaill, a regular United Limo shuttle driver, has been driving for 48 years. He started driving for Transpo, South Bend's public transportation system and, after he retired, he felt as if something was miss­ing. 
"It wasn't enough," he said. "I just like to drive. I like to deal with people. " 
Although he drove primarily for Transpo throughout his ca­reer, he said United Limo, an Osceola-based company, re­cruited him for part-time work before he retired. Gasaill drives both the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's route and a service charter route between retire­ment high-rises in South Bend and Martin's and Kroger su­permarkets . 
"Your passengers become like your friends," he said. "I have a ball. They harass me and I love to harass them." 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students on the shuttle service can be entertaining, said Fred Niedlinger, retired from a 20­year army career and a part time bus driver for seven years. 
"I know quite a few (stu­
dents)," he said. "I get to know 
them pretty well. It (driving) 
doesn't pay worth a darn, so 
you gotta like it. You don't do it 
for the money." 

When the same students 
board the shuttle at the same 
time every day, he gets to know 
them, he said. The driver 
knows where the students on 
his route get on and off and 
often what classes they are tak­
ing, said Niedlinger, who drives 
weekday mornings and after­
noons. 

"You recognize students," he said. "If you see someone com­ing a ways off, you stop and wait. If you don't see someone who's usually there, you wait and look." 
The weekend social activities at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's obviously make the busses more crowded on Friday and Saturday nights, said Al 
ny······........ ·· .. ····· 
.. ··· 
·.. ....~_ur passengers 
become.like your--• , ... friends. I have 3. b~i. . ;they harass me andI•. 

lov: :ou:;~L~:m~~i 
.· . · ntteu tmo urtvet 
Lewellen, who holds a six year part-time record with United Limo. 
He said that as long as the driver is easygoing and friend­ly, the students won't try to defy him. 
"They (students) might get a little bit rowdy on Friday and Saturday nights, but that re­flects on the driver." he said. "It depends on his reaction to them, whether they've had a couple of beers. n 
Some students will ignore the fare box, though, or will try to shortchange the driver by quickly tossing in a nickel and running to the back of the bus, Lewellen said. The company charges 25 cents for each ride after 6 p.m. weeknights and all day on the weekends, but the drivers don't usually enforce it. 
He said he prefers honesty to 
sneakiness and deception, and 
would rather students tell him 
if they can't pay the quarter. 
Lewellen, who works as a 
"dinner breaker" for night dri­
vers, and who also drives on 
weekend nights, said he doesn't 
mind night driving, even on 
nights when students take the 
shuttle to dances on either 
campus. 
"It's interesting to find the fellows getting on the bus on Friday nights all dressed up with a single rose," he said "Sometimes they'll even have a dozen roses. I think that's al­ways kind of neat." 
However. weekend nights are not easy for everyone, Gaspaill said. One fall night last year, after a dance at Saint Mary's, Gaspaill was driving dates from Notre Dame to their campus. The bus was packed and the students, he said were intoxi­cated and loud. 
"It was the last bus," he said "They were really loud and my wife was sitting behind me. I stopped the bus and said, 'My wife is right here and she doesn't like the language you're using.' 
He said that in a situation like that, the security officer will usually board the bus and warn the students, then follow the bus on the remainder of its route. 
But the security officers did not follow Gaspaill that night, he said, and the students' noise only got worse. He said he was forced to stop at the Grotto bus stop to order the students off. 
Despite rare problems, though, Lewellen said that the people he drives are the best part of the job. After selling cars for 38 years, he said he wanted to do something relax­ing where he could meet new people. 
"When I first got out the Navy in 1947, I drove the city bus for years," he said. "Then I started selling cars. (But the 70-hour weeks were) rough, You don't enjoy something· if you don't do it well. 
"Driving gets me out, and you meet a lot of people," he said. "That's the best part." 

years ago. On this American Labor Day ·in September let us remember not to forget. 
Information and research col­lected by Teresa Ghilarducci. economics. and Reverend Patrick Sullivan. sociology. 
-


Monday, September 6, 1993 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL page 8 
Montana's flawless Chief debut highlight ofweekend 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar Col~e Center. Deadline for nexr-day dassifieds is ~.m. All dass1fieds musr be prepaid. e charge is 2 cents per character per day, indu ing all spaces.  
HELPIouR No BABYsitTER oF WEEKENDS -RivERFRoNt 4 YEARS GRADUATED. LOOKING HOUSE OR APT. 257lwsT & FOUND I FOR UPBEAT, FRIENDLY  NEW -9101. TICKETS  W1ii trade: 4BC tlx for 2or 4MSU I need MSU or Pitt tix. Please call tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill Kevin at X4469. (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo  
FEMALE TO SIT FOR 2 KIDS AT 2 ROOMS FOR RENT  ON FOOT­ 
LOST -Black framed glasses. LEAST ONCE A WEEK SO WE BALL WKNDS. 2 MI. F ROM NO. I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  
Please call Nic at 1441 IMPOR­CAN GO OUT. CAR NEEDED. NICELY DECOR. PRE FER AGE TIXS.272-6306  NEED TIX!! NEED 2 MSU, USC, Or FSU TIX  
TANTI CALL ELLI 289-3536. OVER 30. $100/NIGH T/ROOM.  4 MICH. STATE GA's x3402  
2n-a34o.  CALL Merrie X4544  
Grad stu. wants to SHARE COM·  NEED 2 FSU TICKETS  I have 2 Boston College tickets  
Lost: Student Football tix MUTE TO/FM CHICAGO Brian 289­BED 'N BREAKFAST  REGISTRY HELP! -ND/FSU MARRIAGE  WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM (Nov. 20) which I will trade for 2  
Row 43, Sec 30 3234 M-W 312-068-4227 Th·Sun. 219·291·7153  '(904) 398-6146.  NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX Florida State tickets. Please call  
x1723 7·  (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN Nick at 312-222-6464  
Eleven Comer of Ironwood &  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  708-843-6947.  
Edison now taking applications for Furnished house, Ros eland, 3-4 NEED 2 FSU TICKETS  Need Pitt tix. Call Sam x1695  
MY RED-PURPLE SPECIALIZED full time and part·time work. All Bedroom. Good neigh borhood (904) 398-6146  WANTED: FEMALE SO. TIX.  
HARD ROCK MOUNTAIN BIKE shifts available, please apply at the 277-3097  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME. NEED 4 PITI TIX; HAVE NW,  
WAS STOLEN OUT OF store  WILL BUY OR TRADE FOR MSU, USC, BC TIX; WILL TRADE;  
CAVANAUGH LATE MONDAY  I NEED STUDENT SEASON TIX  MALE SO. TIX. TO ANY GAME. CALL (201 )487 -9000  
NIGHT. CALL TIM AT 1470 IF WE HERE AT STUDI0-5 ARE FURNISHED ROOM F OR RENT. AND GA's ALL GAMES  CALL JEREMY 1138  
YOU KNOW ANYTHING. LOOKING FOR MODELS TO $150/MO. 287-2159.  JASON 233-4008  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  

TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO-portation and references needed Mich. game and the Pitt. game. of different art prints by DALI, TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT. part-time days and evening in NO SOCCER CLEATS NEW ADIDAS I need 1 student or GA tix for MSU. Please call257-9752 and ask for MATISSE, MONET, PICASSO, n8-2515. professor home. Please call232-COPA MUNDIAL SIZE 12$50 Will trade or buy 273-4178 Mary. Thanks. RENOIR, VAN GOGH & many oth­
2201. CALL MATI X1524 ers; rock posters; movie stars; M.C. FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! BIG BUCKS! NO STUD TIX BOOK McEscher prints; black & white pho-EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING TRAVELFREEICANCUN, NEEDED CALL PAT@ 273-4867 Need student tickets and FSU GA's, tography + scenic & wilelife photos. BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8 JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADRE! '91 CAMARO AS Blue w/ Silver please call4-3281. TODAY, 9 AM-5PM TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK Strip on side, T-Top, Fancy Wheels, NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641 NOTRE DAME ROOM PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS· Power Window & locks, KEVIN $$ HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S $$ 2nd floor, Lafortune. JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800-SIONS/SERVICEI SUN SPLASH A/C, Wide tires. Less than 7000 PARENTS PAYING BIG MONEY 678-6386! TOU AS 1-8Q0-426-771 0 miles. Never driven in winter or bad NATALIE 273-0520 MOST PRINTS: $7 each -3 prints 
weather. Ph 259-3953 after I HAVE 2 LENNY KRAVITZ TICK-for only $17! 
$$$$ 4PM ETS FOR PINE KNOB ON SATUR· Looking for a 1993 NO football sea-FOR RENT DAY, SEPTEMBER 11. (IN THE I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653 To Kathie, Betsy, and Greg-­son ticket booklet!lll EVENING • AFTER THE MICHl-A hearty thatnk you from the thanks!! call284·5115 1986 RENAULT ALLIANCE, 4-GAN GAMEl) I WANT TO TRADE BADLY NEED BYU GA'S AND 1 Spring 1993 Londomers and all 
$$$$ NEAR ND-DOOR, AUTO, AIR, AM-FM CAS-FOR MICHIGAN TICKETS MSU GA. ASK FOR JOHN X4618. their friends for a great 
SAFE, AFFORDABLE, FUR-SETIE, NEW FRONT TIRES, 71 K (PREFERABLY) OR $$$. CALL We Here at Studio--5 are looking NISHED APTS. MILES. GOOD CONDITION. JEN AT X1308-SOON!! ~~eed 2 student books and 2 U of M SCHADLPALOOZA I!! for models to pose for posters-n-eal-1 BDRM. • $240, $2000. 287-5235 AFTER 5 PM. GA's. Call Dave collect after 7pm. 
enders those interested call us at 755 SOUTH BEND AVE. 313·981-Q238 We really appreciate all of your 271-1371 or come in at52029 U.S. 2 BDRM. -$280, Washer & dryer: full-size Kenmore, Need Pitt GA's-call ext 3756, katie hard work and planning so we could 31 N. Hours are 10 a.m. -6 p.m. 519 CORBY white, good condition: 3-cycle wash-WANTED: NO vs. U. Michigan have fun and finally experience that Mon-Fri DEP. REQ'D. er, electric dryer. Ready to go. $200 For Sale: 1 stud. ticket for FSU. Tickets. Please call Kate evening long-awaited, much anticipated, and 
1·800-582-9320. each or $300 for both. Jeff 288-Make best offer of multiple tix or $. @ (201 )822-8945 (collect OK). frequently dreamed about event ­3878 after 6 pm. 4-4310 meeting 
LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE 6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS, DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­& HONEST YOUNG LADY TO WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO. Will give first-born son for lour USC ETSI 2 GAs lor Mich. State, FSU, JOHN SCHADL I WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE. PER PERSON. PORTABLE CD PLAYER, DEN-tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob and BC call: A. Raczkowski HOURS FLEXIBLE, PREFERABLY 2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. NON DCP-30 8x OVERSAMPLING at 273-0620. (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums Our lives will never be the same! DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN 1 BEDROOM, $225 MO. WITH ACCESSORIES. $160. with jobs -will pay big $$$! Thanks so much! 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM-MARTY 4-4461. Desperately seeking t.ickets for 273-4888 FOR MORE INFORMA-PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE. Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN TION.IMMEDIATE START. 272-6306. Rich 277-4769 STATE GA'S CALL SCOTI X4074 Help! Need 2 Ga's for PITI, BC, or USC. call x4-3650 
NEED MSU GA'S CALL MATI X1524 
NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR 11120 BC CALL MARK CAT 1 BOO 543 0357 
WANTED TWO GA OR MARRIED STUDENT TICKET TO ANY HOME GAMES. JOHN 800 258-6524 EXT1152 
272-7233. 

WANTED: SEASON TICKETS. 
272-7233. Have GA's to all Home Games & 
Mich. Call232-7316 from 7-8 p.m. FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 2n-1659. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITISBURGH  PERSONAL  
GAME. CALL CARRIE AT 634­ 
4416.  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  

NEED ONE FSU • WILL TRADE VITO'S BARBER SHOP MSU & CASH. CALL COLLECT 1523 LINCOLNWAYWEST . (314)962-4876. 233-4767 
Need 1 MSU stud or GA SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The call Kavita x4520 Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. 
Married std tix 4 sale @271-0783 Huntington Gfaphics presents AN 
EXHIBITION & SALE OF FINE ART Need a stud. ticket for both the PRINTS-The sale includes 100's 
By DICK BRINSTER Associated Press Writer 
While the Kansas City Chiefs' investment in Joe Montana paid an early dividend, most of the other new quarterbacks were no bargain. 
Montana, who bruised his right wrist in the Chiefs' 27-3 victory Sunday over the Tampa Bay Bucs, threw three touchdown passes in a nearly flawless perfor­mance. It was reminiscent of so many he gave while leading the San Francisco 49ers to four Super Bowl titles in 14 seasons before an elbow injury cost him most of the last two seasons. 
"Joe had the hot hand, and when he's on the money, there's none better," Tampa Bay coach Sam Wyche said. 
"It felt good to be back out there," Montana said. "It was a long time." 
Two quarterbacks with Super Bowl rings from the New York Giants also were outstanding. Phil Simms engineered a late drive that gave the Giants a 26-20 victory over Chicago, and Jeff Hostetler ate up the Minnesota defense in a 24-7 victory over the Vikings. 
As for the other new starting quarterbacks: -Steve DeBerg, who replaced Vinny Testaverde, was booed off the field by the Tampa Bay fans. 
-Drew Bledsoe got his baptism under fire and saw Jim Kelly throw four TD passes as Buffalo beat New England 38-14 in Bill Parcells' return to the sidelines. 
-Steve Beuerlein completed just 7 -of-19 passes as Phoenix fell 27-13 to the Philadelphia Eagles. 
-Cincinnati's David Klingler was sacked six times, fumbled twice and threw two interceptions as the Bengals lost 27-14 to Cleveland. 
-Klingler's predecessor, Boomer Easiason had good numbers, but most ofthem came late in the New York Jets' 26-20 loss to Denver. 
-Pittsburgh's Mike Tomczak threw for just 46 yards before Neil O'Donnell put aside his elbow injury. But the Steelers were no match for Steve Young in San Francisco's 24-13 victory. 
-Jack Trudeau had the same problem at Indianapolis, where the Colts succumbed to a game­saving drive by Dan Marino in Miami's 24-20 victory. 
Elsewhere on the NFL's 74th opening day, it was Detroit 30, Atlanta 13; Green Bay 36, the Los Angeles Rams 6, and San Diego 18, Seattle 12. 
Houston was at New Orleans in a night game. Dallas is at Washington on Monday night. 
Chiefs 27, Bucs 3 
Old targets Jerry Rice and John Taylor were nowhere to be found, so Montana discovered Willie Davis and J.J. Birden. "I would have liked to have finished the game, but overall I was pretty satisfied," said Montana. 
Montana threw TD passes of 19 yards to Davis, 50 yards to Birden and 12 yards to Marcus Allen, who made his debut for Kansas City after 11 seasons with the Los Angeles Raiders. Montana was 14-for-21 for 246 yards in his first start in more than two years. DeBerg was 12-for-20 for 79 yards. 
Giants 26, Bears 20 
Simms' 1-yard touchdown pass to Jarrod Bunch with 
1:07 to play -coming on the heels of a pass interfer­ence penalty -proved decisive, making Dan Reeves' coaching debut with the Giants a success and spoiling Dave Wannstedt's first game with the Bears. 
"The final drive was great," Simms said. "Nobody panicked. We were relaxed and the line was great when I needed protection." 
Lawrence Taylor slapped the ball out of quarterback Jim Harbaugh's hand and recovered the fumble to clinch the game. David Treadwell had four field goals for New York. 
Raiders 24, Vikings 7 Hostetler completed 14 of 15 passes for 150 yards and one touchdown in the first half Sunday to help the Raiders take a 21-0 lead. 

Hostetler, who signed as a free agent with the Raiders during the offseason after playing nine years with the Giants, finished was 23-of-27 for 225 yards. 
"During the preseason, I felt we were just a play away," Hostetler said. "We put it all together today." 
··ws111 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Former Irish signal caller Joe Montana completed 14 of 21 passes for 246 yards in his debut with the Chiefs. 
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­
OARS. THOSE INTERESTED
WANTED 

CALL271-1371 OR COME IN 
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE Need 1 NW for student 10AM-6PM MON-FRI ask for Carrie -4-4802 
Babysitter Needed: Various week-EXTERIOR PAINTERS days call if interested: 255-9094 Experienced Student Painters need· ed to paint South Bend area homes. Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger, Full or Part nme. IN, hiring for: servers, bartenders, AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS line cook. Exp. pref. but not nee. for 1-800-626-6267. info call272-7017 
"painting America's homes coast to coasr Newspaper carriers and branch 
managers needed for Notre Dame LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER-and St. Mary's campus. Call imme-VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS, diately for available positions: 232­PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE 3205. RESPONSIBLE, MATURE AND ­NON-SMOKER AND LIKE Babysitter with experience, trans-BED AND BREAKFAST in private home. 2 twins, single w/ separate bath-10 min from campus. Reasonable 234-2626 
Bachelor Apartment for Rent. 7 min. from campus in a safe neigh­borhood. 233-7631 
FOR SALE 
'91 CAMARO RS, blue w/silver strip on side, T-top, fancy wheels, power windows,locks, ale, wide tires, less than 7000 miles. Never driven in winter or bad weather. 259-3953 after 4 pm. 

-~---1 
page 9 The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL 
Former Irish kicker Carney sets record 
By BERNIE WilSON 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN DIEGO 

John Carney and the San Diego Chargers finally kicked off a season right. 
Carney, the hottest kicker in the NFL, had a team-record six straight field goals in an 18-12 victory Sunday over the Seattle Seahawks. 
Seattle's defense frustrated San Diego, but Carney connected from 26, 44, 50, 32, 51 and 19 yards as the defending AFC West champion Chargers snapped a six-game losing streak on opening day, the longest in the NFL. 
Carney broke his own records for most field goals in a game and most without a miss, set with a 5-for-5 per­formance in a 36-14 win against the Los Angeles Raiders. He extended his 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
club-record streak to 22 straight in the regular season, tying him for fourth on the all-time NFL list. 
His streak nearly ended on his sec­ond attempt, when his foot hit the ground first and the ball fluttered through the goalpost like a knuckle­ball. 
"Chewing up dirt from 44 yards isn't a good way to keep a streak alive," Carney said. "I just hit behind the ball, took a nice divot. Seattle has a great inside rush team and 90 percent of the time they would have blocked that kick. We're just lucky they didn't have their hands up in time for that one." 
Carney said he had to change shoes after the 44-yarder because his old one was starting to split. 
"I used two different shoes in this game. That's really uncharacteristic of me. I want to keep everything as con­sistent as possible. But when your shoe starts falling apart, you've got to look at it realistically that maybe you need a new shoe." 
Seattle, 2-14 last year, dropped its fifth straight opener. 
Seattle's defense, ranked 10th in the NFL last year despite usually playing from behind, scored the game's only touchdown and turned back San Diego's best chance for six points. Linebacker Terry Wooden stopped Ronnie Harmon at the 1 with just more than 5 minutes to go, and Carney kicked his final field goal. 
The Seahawks stunned San Diego on the game's third play. Tackle Cortez Kennedy swatted Stan Humphries' pass with his left hand and the other tackle, Joe Nash, who had come around behind Humphries, got the deflection, a block of Humphries by Cortez and ran 13 yards for his second 
career NFL score. 

Men's tennis practice Women's tennis tryouts Information is looking for vol­begins Thursday September 9. will be Thursday September 9 unteer help for the 1993-94 Tryouts for all walk-ons will at 3:00 at the Courtney Tennis academic year. Our office han­begin at 3:30. Anyone inter­Center. Anyone interested in dles statistics, press releases ested in trying out should con­trying out MUST contact the and media guides for all Irish tact the tennis office at 1-6113 tennis office at 1-5149. varsity sports. For more infor­or 1-4841. Notre Dame Sports mation, call Rose at 631-7516. 






Courtesy Notre Dame Sports Information Notre Dame graduate John Carney kicked six field goals in San Diego's 18-12 win yesterday. 
Any St. Mary's College stu­dents interested in trying out for the varsity basketball team should attend a meeting on Tuesday Sept. 7 at 4:30 p.m. in the Angelo Athletic Facility. 
Anyone living off-campus 





who is interested in playing men's interhall football should meet at Stepan Field on Tuesday Sept. 7 at 4:30. If you have any questions call Matt at 273-8859. 
NO Rugby Club practices everyday at 4:15 at Stepan Field anyone interested in com­ing must bring a mouthpiece and cleats. 
The Notre Dame Hockey team will silkscreen your clean, plain T -shirts and sweatshirts at Student Activities Night, free of charge. 
All track athletes interested in the indoor or outdoor season: there will be a meeting on Sept. 9 at 4:30 in Loftus. 
Women's safety and self­defense-Course objective is to expose women to basic self­defense techniques as used in real-life situations. Classes begin Monday, September 13. 10 sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays, 6:30-7:45 PM, Rockne Rm. 219. Class size is limited and open to stu­dents/faculty/staff and requires a $9.00 fee. For more infor­mation call631-6100. 
Shorln -RYU Karate ­Students are instructed accord­ing to Okinawan techniques. Classes begin Monday, September 13, and run throughout the semester on Mondays and Wednesdays 4:30-6:00 and requires a $15.00 fee. Demonstration; Wednesday, September 8, 5:00 PM in Rockne 301. For more information call 631-6100 
SCUBA diving course­YMCA lifetime certification. Classes begin Sunday, September 12. Seven class­room and pool sessions meeting on Sundays 3:30-7:30 PM Important information meet­ing Wednesday, September 8, 
6:00 PM in Rockne 218. For more information call 631­6100. 
Biathlon -1/2 mile swim and 2 mile run. Saturday, September 11, 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach. Three divisions: Varsity, Non-varsity, and Team. Register in advance at RecSports. For more infor­mation call 631-6100. 
FrMWIIIy
1:45 4:15 6:4!i 9:00 H8td Target12:45 3:00 5:15 7:30 10:00 Needful Thlnga 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:45 Secret a.m.... 


12:30 2:30 4:45 6:45 6:45 
SleepleM In s..tt1e

And that's not a misprint. 
12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 
Son In law 
1:00 3:00 5:00 7:00 9:15 

Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 

U.SA tnc.1993--_. 
Monday, September 6, 1993

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
SMC volleyball begins
;_ 
optimistic new-season 
By CHERYL GILLILAND 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team opened their season Sat­urday afternoon 
­at an eight team tournament at Kalamazoo College and despite a disap­pointing 0-4 record, head coach Julie Julie Schroeder-Schroeder-Biek Biek is opti­mistic about the season and the team's potential. 
The Belles went up against North Central College, Concor­dia, Siena Heights, and Wheaton College, and provided strong competition despite los­ing each match. 
"Most of the matches were tight," said Schroeder-Biek, "and could have gone either 
way." 

"We had a lot of ups and downs," said sophomore An­gela McNulty, "But we played well together as a team." 
The Belles have only had four practices together this season, and still need work on several aspects of the game. "We need to work on our defensive moves," said Schroeder-Biek, 
•but I feel that all of our prob­lems are definitely fiXable." 
Saint Mary's has only a hand­ful of returning players, ·but Schroeder-Biek is very pleased with the new players and ex­cited about the depth of talent on the team. 
"I looked at this tournament as a pre-season scrimage," said Schroeder-Biek. "We got to play everybody and I saw a lot of good things in the players. I'm excited about the rest of the season." 

This Week in Notre Dame Sports 
Women's v::::a~pener We:EI' 
vs. Washington ~ Tuesday 9/7 7:30 pm ~ 
£i",,.__._ JACC Are~na ~, ?'~--­.~ ~ Women's Soccer -=-­
b-.·•· 

~-vs. Butler Tuesday 9/7 7:00 pm Alumni Field 
FREE admission for either game to students who show their J.D. card 
Stop by on your way to or from Student Activities Night --look for the Sports Marketing table if you'd like to get involved with our promotions. 
Men's soccer captures tourney 
Observer Staff Repon 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team took its first big step toward national success this weekend, winning the adidas­Met Life Classic in Bloomington, Ind. 
Notre Dame opened the tour­nament with a 4-1 win over Rutgers and lost its second game 1-0 to UNLV. 
But Rutgers responded with a 1-0 stunner over No. 2 ranked Indiana to give the Irish the ti­tle. 
Every team in the field lost one game, so goals-scored de­termined the champion. The 4­1 win over Rutgers proved even more important, giving the Irish a two goal advantage and the tournament title. 
In the opener against Rutgers, the Irish were pow­ered by junior forward Tim Oates' hat trick. 
Oates opened the scoring at the 12 minute mark from 22 yards away before Rutgers' Brian Sentowski tied the game 1-1 four minutes before half­time. 
Oates helped the Irish pull away early in the second half, scoring twice in the first 15 minutes, once on an assist from Jason Fox. 
Fox later assisted Keith 

Notre Dame's team offense after handling Rutgers so easi­Carlson for Notre Dame's final wasn't quite as potent against ly, but the Scarlet Knights'goal of the game. 
UNLV. upset over the host Hoosiers
Freshman Brian Engesser 

The Runnin' Rebels Tom gave Notre Dame the champi­and junior Dane Whitley saw Miller scored the game's only onship.
their first extended action with goal 18 minutes into the first Oates earned offensive MVPthe Irish defense, helping to half and Notre Dame managed honors and Carlson, Fox, andhold the potent Scarlet Knight just six shots on goal to drop senior captain Mike Palmeroffense in check. 

their first game of the season. joined him on the all-tourna­While Oates' explosive offense It was a discouraging loss ment team. 
lifted the Irish in the opener, 


See 
today's Sports 
Extra for all the info on the 
game 


...~·A 

SATURDAY '---./SEPTEMBER 11, 1993 
10:30 AM ST. JOE BEACH 
1/2 MILE SWIM 2 MILE RUN THREE DIVISIONS: 
W!A[R1®31FW 
00@ 00~ Wt\[R1 ®TiJW lf~~[M] 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
f.!.~ 

631-6100 FOR MORE INFO 
}~ 

Welcome Students 


BAPTIST 
Student Union 
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 
\(\ September 1 3 7 p.m.)0 \ at the Center for \)S• Social Concerns 
• 
TODAY 

Monday, September 6, 1993 page 11 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
TI-\EN I T\40\JGI-\T, W\·N 'NA\\ U~\\l I'M ~ TEE.N-1\GE.li< ?.' I 'V'i.b-JH TO B£ IDOU'ZED N0/'1. 1 
f 



ACROSS 32 Carousals 54 Uncomfortable summer period
34 Salt at Maxim's1 Mr. Ziegfeld 61 A Peron 35 Kuwaiti or4Summit 62 GenuflectedOmani7 Driving 63 Actor in "The 

instructor's 36 Newman-Crying Game" command Woodward film, 64 Drilling with "The": 
t 1 Oyster's home equipment
1958

12 More bashful 65 Lawn filler 39--Blanc
14 High nest 66 Paddock 40 Humorist has-been
15 Summertime Burrows
holiday 18 Nobel chemist 41 Yield 
DOWN 

Onsager: 1968 43 Units of energy 1 Agcy. that
19 Besmirch 44 Hang fire Hoover headed20 ---majeste 46 Frozen dessert 2 Actor Cariou231.R.S. payback 47 Legal matter 3 Outlandish25 Partner of wide, 48 Eddy or Riddle 4 Yuletide 28 Orals, e.g. 
decorationso An arrow poison30Aiaddin had 5 Ref. book 

one 51 Half of MCCCII 6 Takes for 
,31 Split 52 House plant granted 7 Pare 8 Suffix with dull ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
91nlet 10 Largo or West 12 Mineral spring 

13 Mister, in Bonn 27 Johnny--of 48 Basketball 55 Egg: Comb. the C.S.A. to urn. won by form
t4 Type of rock or 

rain 29 Part, in geom. N.C.: 1993 56 Captain's boat 31 Aimless
16 Chemistry's 49 Actress Patricia 57Yoko­33 Like a beauty
basics 
5t Banned sprays 58 Coffee maker

queent7 Perplex 37 Structures like 53 Groove 59 Caspian or20 Bandleader the Washington 
Coral

Brown 54"-­
Monument 
21 Examine closely Rosenkavalier" 60 Label
38 Stein's kin 22 Polynesian 39 Deb~ssy's "La DINING HALL 
garments 
Get answers to any three clues 

42 Golf gadget 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

25 Stoker 45 Removed one's 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

26 Greed hat 



Michigan ticket lottery 
Tues, Sept, 7 12-6pm, Stepan 4 IDs per person, please 
Activities Night! 
Tues, Sept. 7 7-lOpm, JACC 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
.. 





The Observer/Jake Peters Junior outside hitter Nicole Coates sparked the Irish to a second-place finish in the Big Four Classic this weekend at the University of Kentucky. 
Inside SPORTS 
MEN'S 
SOCCER 
Junior Tim Oates is named 

\~ 
;­
,, 
I 
1 
'l 
,l 
I 
,{ 
.\ 
:J 
' 
.,
" 
I 
~ 
~~ 
<-. 
.. / 
• 
' ~ 
,. :::~...;.~ " ~ ': ~ ..e ~:" _. 
--. 
offensive MVP 
as the Irish win 
the adidas­


MetLife Classic. Tim Oates 

see page 10 


PRO FOOTBALL 
Former Irish star John Carney sets an NFL record with six-straight field goals for the Chargers. 
Notre Dame slips past Northwestern 27-12 
SEE SPORTS EXTRA 
SPORTS 
Monday, September 6, 1993 

Irish volleyball takes second at UK's Big Four Classic 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 

After a heart-wrenching loss to ranked Kentucky in the opening match of the Big Four Classic, Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown wondered how her team would respond. In less than twelve hours her team would have to take the floor again. 
"I was concerned with how we would come back," stated Brown. "We were really drained." 
As it turned out, Brown's con­cern was unwarranted, as the Irish dominated in their next two matches, pounding Indiana in three straight (15-6, 15-13, 15-4) and then controlling Louisville 15­11, 15-9, 14-16, 15-10. 
"I was definitely pleased with how well we rebounded from the Kentucky match. We were disap­pointed because we really wanted that first one, but we were able to come back strong the next day," added Brown. 
The highly-touted match against Kentucky lived up to its billing as the Irish captured the first two games, but then relaxed and let UK come back to force a decisive fifth game. In a closely played final, UK prevailed 15-13, leaving a bitter taste for the Irish. 
"We were really disappointed that we had them and couldn't fin­ish them off," stated Brown. 
"That one was really disap­pointing," lamented senior co-cap­tain Julie Harris, "We should have won the match, but we relaxed 
Women's soccer crushes LaSalle, 12-0 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sporn Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team traveled to La Salle Saturday in hopes of testing younger players and fine tuning their game. But in the end, the only thing tested was the scorekeepers math, as the Irish cruised to a 12-0 win. 
Sophomores Rosella Guerrero and Michelle McCarthy both earned hat tricks and six other players scored as the Explorers mounted about as much defense as the word "surren­der" could indicate. 
Guerrero scored the game's first two goals on assists from senior Allison Lester and from there the landslide began. 
"I think we played OK but after the score gets to be high then you lack in your intensity," said McCarthy. "Coach got after us in the second half for not being as agressive and intense. 
You would never know they lacked intensty by the score in the second period, as the Irish got a half dozen goals on 18 shots. La Salle goal Chris Rawb had 11 saves on 32 total attempts by Notre Dame. 
"Although the score is lopsided, it was still good that the freshman got rid of their jitters and got a look at what college soccer is all about,"said Guerrero. "We all know that the rest of our games aren't going to be like this, but it is nice to ease into the season. 
The Irish defenders seemed able to take naps during stretches of the game, as La Salle managed only two shots on goal and was lucky to get the ball across midfield. 
"We need to work on our defense as a whole, so in that sense this game wasn't very helpful," said midfielder Ragen Coyne. "But it is good that we work together and develop a rhythm. 
"You don't really count goals like those, because when you score the game is out of reach. In a sense they really don't count," said McCarthy. 
The scorekeeper does and proba­bly still is. 

The Obli~erv<er/Jake Sophomore Michelle McCarthy scored a hat trick in the Irish's 12-0 win over LaSalle. 
and let them back into it. We have to work on putting people away in the third game." 
Senior co-captain Janelle Karlan and freshman outside hitter Jenny Birkner both had outstanding matches against UK, propelling them to honors on the all-tourney team. 
Karlan ended the tournament hitting an impressive 50% for the three matches. "She's our most efficient offensive player," said Brown. "She really took advantage of the opportunities provided, and knew where to go with the ball." 
Birkner carried the offensive load against both Kentucky and Indiana, notching double figures in kills in both matches while keep­ing her errors to a minimum. "She was our leader in kills, but she also blocked well," noted Brown. "She's not your typical freshman." 
According to Brown, blocking well was the key for Notre Dame in edging Louisville, and the Irish were led by Harris. 
''As a team we really came together and picked up the tempo, which helped everyone's individ­ual game," said Harris. Christy Peters led the team with 19 kills, while Harris added ten. 
Despite the disappointment of losing to Kentucky, the Irish were encouraged by the second place finish in the tournament. As Harris said, "With our freshmen really playing well, we've turned what could have been a rebuilding year into one where we're ready to compete now." 




-·---~----~-~~-~--~------------------~--­
------..--------~ -~-----~-­


page 1 
Quarterback Unsettled 
• Neither Kevin McDougal nor Paul Failla (right) impressed enough · to win the job outright 

story page 2 
Irish squeak past. • .Wildcats? 
Notre Da01e falls four places to No. 11 in polls 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
It wasn't pretty. It wasn't cute. In fact. in wasn't even mediocre. It was the type of game you want to beat with a stick until it's over or dead, whichever you prefer. 
Notre Dame's 27-12 win over 
Northwestern Saturday was about as 
exciting as an insurance convention. 
Not until Jeff Burris plunged into the endzone from two-yards out with 10:30 left in the fourth quarter did Notre Dame fans begin to think about post-game cele­brations. 
The irony in Burris putting the game out of reach, is that he is a full-time safe­ty and a part-time running back. He and his defensive mates not only held the Wildcats in tow but they also supplied most of the Irish offense. 
Meanwhile the Kevin McDougal-Paul Failla quarterback committee employed by Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz played more like what fans are used to seeing at Northwestern. And from the standpoint of a Notre Dame fan that could translate into a season full of somber defense struggles, which end up being losses. 
"I was hoping we would look impres-
See WIN on page 2 

JOCK STRIP 
Holtz still looking for answers 

L
ou Holtz has been facing difficult 
questions since the 
season began, but 
after Saturday's 
lackluster win over 
Northwestern, he 
had a few questions 
of his own. 
"Can we correct 
the mistakes we 
JASON KELLY 

made? Can we be a 
Associate Sports Editor good football team?'' Holtz asked. ..At the present time, I honestly do not know. If we can't I'll be one sick puppy." Holtz is a master at correcting mistakes and creating good teams. Inexperience and injuries are a different story. With six offensive starters seeing the first extended action of their careers, and starting linebacker Anthony Peterson out for at least a month with a knee injury, Notre Dame finds itself in an unusual place. The middle of the pack. "One could ask whether or not we will ever win another football game," Holtz said. "It's a legitimate question." That is typical Holtz bad-mouthing. The Irish proved Saturday that mediae-

The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
See KELLY on page 2 

Senior safety John Covington leaps over Northwestern's Lee Gissendaner as they scramble for the ball in Saturday's season-opener. 

~---~--------------------~--------~--.--------~~----..~~----~--------­
page 2 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY September 6, 199 3 
Irish QBs still sharing spotlight 
ByJASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 
Spotlights aren't meant to be shared, and one of the brightest shines on the Notre Dame quar­terback. 
Tony Rice felt it. Rick Mirer felt it. Even freshman phe­nom Ron Powlus felt it. 
Kevin 


1 McDougal and >J 
;;f~ w ::~:~ ..l'A 
They are shar­
ing a spotlight Paul Failla that isn't big enough for both of them. 
But Saturday against Northwestern, neither quarter­back did anything to push the other out of the way. 
Both were steady at times and sloppy at others. 
McDougal finished 6-for-8 for 135 yards, d~e in part to some acrobatic catches by his re­ceivers. Failla connected on all three of his attempts for 11 yards. 
Notre Dame had just four first-half possessions, two for McDougal and two for Failla. 
The results? Punt, punt, punt, halftime. 
Notre Dame went to the lock­er room with a shaky 7-6 lead thanks to linebacker Pete Bereich's interception return for touchdown on the frrst play of the game. 
Not an auspicious beginning for Notre Dame's new signal callers. 
"We didn't have the ball much in the first half," head coach Lou Holtz said. "If you don't make first downs you aren't going to play much." 
McDougal opened the second half determined to make an impact on the game. 
He did. He fumbled the first snap of -the half and Northwestern recovered on the Notre Dame 28-yard line. 
..1 didn't bring the ball to my stomach," McDougal said. "I left it out and the guard hit it and knocked it loose." 
Northwestern promptly scored to take a 12-7 lead. Welcome to the spotlight Mr. McDougal. 
Holtz never considered insert­ing Failla for the next drive. It was McDougal's mistake and his chance to clean up his mess. 
He didn't flinch. 
"After they took the lead, (Notre Dame tackle) Aaron Taylor said to me 'It's time to go now.'" McDougal said. "I said 'I'll meet you at the goal line.'" 
That's where they ended up seven plays later, giving the Irish a lead they would never relinquish. 
"We had the will to go down and score and we did," McDougal said. "You could see our confidence building with every play on that series." 
McDougal stayed in the game for the next three series, which resulted in another touchdown and two field goals, giving Notre Dame the final 27-12 
margin. 


QUARTERBACKS Inconsistent and sloppy at times, but good enough for a win 
RUNNING BACKS Zellars and Becton were steady and Kinder added a spark off the bench 
RECEIVERS Acrobatic catches saved the quarterbacks from an even sloppier day 
0-LINE Ruddy, Zataveski, and Leahy were bright spots, but too many questions remain 
D-LINE Solid pass rush but Williams (NU) proved to be too elusive at times 
LINEBACKERS Goheen filled in capably, but Peterson's loss still hurt 
SECONDARY Bobby Taylor played like a pro, but they gave up a little too much yardage 
SPECIAL TEAMS Returns and placekicking were solid, but punting left something to be desired 
COACHING The Irish were well-prepared and some halftime adjust­ment helped them pull away 
FINAL SCORE Inexperience led to some mental errors, but the team showed character respond­
ing to the second-half deficit; fefl well short of making the Dean's List 
Win 
from page 1 
"Kevin McDougal got on a roll and we kept him in," Holtz said, but he quickly indicated that he is still a co-quarterback. "Failla also did some nice things and some things hap­pened that weren't his fault, like penalties and missed assignments." 
McDougal's second-half suc­cess limited Failla's minutes, but the junior remains confi-· 
dent. 
"I think I did a pretty good job, but I wasn't asked to do much today," Failla said. "It's tough to come in and out, but that would be an excuse. I think of myself as a starting quarterback and I expect to play like one." 
Holtz also expects a lot from his quarterbacks. He is in thei-r faces at every practice, barking instructions and correcting mis­takes. 
His presence can be a bur­den, particularly to inexperi­enced players. But if they can handle Holtz in practice, he be­lieves they can handle any game situation. 
And at least in the near future, both will continue to get the opportunity to handle those situations. 
McDougal played about three­fourths of the series on Saturday, but Holtz has not intention of establishing any set rotation. 
The bettter player will play. 
McDougal was a little better on Saturday. Failla may be bet­ter next time. 
Holtz will follow his gut feel­

sive, help us with our confidence," said Holtz. "But we just did not look that sharp." 
Notre Dame linebacker Pete Bereich looked sharp when he snared a tip pass and lumbered 21 yards into the endzone on the game's opening play. But that was all the offense for the Irish before half. It looked like it might be enough, but Wildcat quarterback Len Williams hit Dennis Lundy on an 11-yard strike to pull Northwestern to 7-6 at the in­termission, ending an impressive 79­yard drive, tainted only by Brian Leahy's missed extra point. 

The Observer/John Bingham Senior quarterback Kevin McDougal led the Irish on four second-half scoring drives, but he will continue to split time with junior Paul Failla. 
ing. 
"We don't have any pattern that Kevin will play this many series and Paul will play this many series," Holtz said. "We'll just go by feel. Both will continue to play. That's our plan." 

The ineptness of • Plaverofthe..Game • setting up Burris' the Notre Dame ''i"'' ''*'':'~'~"''''··•,"l:'h~~ru~>+"%'''·''····, :{f n>!.· ·n:+''''''''·· score after Greg offense glared more t ,. Lane stripped the than the reflection of t' BOBBY ball from their golden helmets 1 k TAYLOR Northwestern re­in the opening thirty "'; ceiver Chris minutes. Notre G bl
6'4" 190 lbs.'• am e. ~:me Y':~~:gedt~~!) :l , sophomo~,-~ .. cessescond-~~~:~ecd 
~t~:~~~f~~~~~! ~.~~~; [~1:~~t~:~~~
Trophy. •,;>;with twt)''..•'!tS~' He savetl.. ,a needs to be more 
Meanwhile the touchdowJiM()'i'J. a diving pa!s productive if the defense gave up deflection. 'taylor was ali() Notre Dame offense chunks of yardage to robbed of aa'':interceptiod.''in is going to find sue­
Northwestern's com-h d half af cess. 
plex passing forma-t e secon ter a ques-And although the tions but managed to tionable pass illteJ!erence call. defense. had six 
hit Clint Johnson for a 23-yard comple­tion and after five-straight running plays, fullback Ray Zellars scored the Irish's first offensive touchdown of the season from one yard out. 
Notre Dame's offense seemed to gain confidence from that drive, scoring on its next two possessions on Kevin Pendergast field goals from 29 and 27 yards out. In both drives McDougal hit key passes, a 50-yard bomb to Mike Miller and a 42-yard strike to Derrick Mayes on second and nineteen. 
"I told Kevin not to look over his shoulder, just to play the game, and if he makes mistakes, shake them off," Holtz said. 
The defense also seemed to pick up its pace, forcing the Wildcats scoreless the rest of the way and 

stiffen when it counted, the lone exception being Lundy's grab. "They were mostly in nickel and dime (defensive) formations, with six DB's on the field," said Northwestern coach Gary Barnett. "They were able to match our 
substitutions and OUr offense didn't take 
over when it had the opportunity.'' 
The lone exception would be the open­ing drive of the second half, when a McDougal fumble gave Williams and Co. the ball at the Irish 28-yard line .. Four 
'plays later Lundy had his second touch­
down of the afternoon and handed 
Northwestern the lead, 12-7 · 
Holtz stuck with McDougal after the 
fumble and he responded with the 
Irish's best drive of the afternoon. 
·· s a c k s , Northwestern did tally 391 yards of total offense. In the end, Notre Dame looked far from the No. 7 team in the nation and Holtz, as usual, tells you so. "W · · h b 
e JUSt mig t not e a very, very
good football team." 
•Anthony 
Peterson's first half knee injury is more severe than first deter­mined. The senior linebacker is definatly out for Saturday's Michigan game and should miss at least four weeks. 

• 
The Irish dropped four spots in the AP Poll. Florida, Tennessee, Nebraska and Colorado all leaped over the Irish. 

•Other 
injured players include defen­sive lineman Paul Grasmanis and kicker Kevin Pendergast. Neither are expected 



Kelly 
from page 1 
rity can win football games. 
Whether or not its enough to beat a team like Michigan re­mains to be seen. 
Other questions remain. Will the quarterback situa­tion ever be settled? 
Neither Kevin McDougal or Paul Failla did anything to win or lose the quarterback job Saturday. Both were, well, me­diocre. 
"We don't need to make great plays," Holtz said. "We just need to eliminate the bad ones." 
It appears that the quarter­back situation won't be settled until Freshman Messiah Ron Powlus returns. 
Will junior Justin Goheen and freshman Lyron Cobbins fill in capably for Peterson? 
Goheen played some solid minutes Saturday and Cobbins is simply untested. 
"Losing Peterson really hurts our defense, he was one of the most underrated linebackers in the nation," Holtz said. "We're very happy to have a player like Justin Goheen. He has a good feel for the ball and a good feel for the game." 
Defense is supposed to carry the Irish this season. Without Peterson it may not be able to handle the load. 
Will the offensive line im­prove enough to handle Michigan•s horses? 
Holtz removed starting of­fensive guards Will Lyell and Dusty Zeigler in favor of Pat Leahy and Mark Zataveski. But Holtz is leaving his options open, including the option of moving starting tackles Aaron Taylor and Todd Norman back to guard. 
"That's a possibility. I will write down all the possible solutions and even though that doesn't seem like the best solu­tion at the present time," Holtz said. "I may even play the position myself." 
Mistakes can be fixed. Only time can heal inexperience and injuries. 
Notre Dame may not have enough. 
Starting at the 28-yard line, McDougal to miss Saturday"s game. 
September 6, 1993 page3
The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY 

Final Statistics 
Scoring Summar~ Team Stats 
Score by Quarters 1 2 3 4 Northwestern (0-1) 0 6 6 0 Notre Dame (1-0) 7 0 10 10 
Team 
ND NU NU ND ND NO ND 
Qtr Play 
1 BERCICH 21 interception return (Kevin PENDERGAST PAT) 2 LUNDY 8 pass from WILLIAMS (PAT failed) 3 LUNDY 11 run (2-pt. conversion failed) 3 ZELL.ARS 6 run (PENDERGAST PAT) 3 PENDERGAST 29 FG 4 PENDERGAST 27 FG 4 BURRIS 2 run (PENDERGAST PAT) 
NU ND 

Final FIRST DOWNS 21 17 12 Rushing 7 10 27 Passing 11 5 Penalty 3 2 Rushing Attempts 34 46 NET YARDS RUSHING 81 162 ND NU Time NET YARDS PASSING 238 146 Left Passes Attempted 35 11 Passes Completed 23 9 TOTAL NET YARDS 319 308 7 0 14:52 Yards Per Play 4.6 5.7 Fumbles-Lost 2-1 1-1 Penalties-Yards 10-86 7-61 7 6 0:30 Interceptions-Yards 0-0 1-21 Punts-Yards Per Punt 5-35.8 4-40.7 Punt Returns-Yards 0-0 1-9 7 12 13:35 Kickoff Returns-Yards 4-76 1-17 
Individual Stats 
14 12 11:03 RUSHING Att. Yards TD Long N2rthwetem

17 12 3:36 Lundy 2 48 1 12 Williams 5 9 0 1420 12 12:49 Wright 4 15 0 11 Robinson 3 9 0 927 12 10:30 IS.!Hre Qame Becton 16 72 0 16 ZeUars 14 67 1 10 

Att.  
Kinder  4  
Davis  1  
Edwards  1  
Farmer  1  
Burris  1  
Lytle  1  
Failla  2  
McDougal  5  
PASSING  A-C-1  

~2rthwfsl~m 
Williams 35-23-1 
N2lrf DBmf McDougal 8-6-0 Failla 3-3-0 
RECEIVING No. IS.2ribn':eslfrn Lundy 7 Gissendaner 6 Gamble 3 Senters 2 Morris 2 Beazley 1 Wright 1 Robinson 1 
N2tre Dame Zellars 3 Miller 2 Johnson 2 Mayes 1 Dawson 1 
Yards TD Long 26 0 21 
1. 
8 0 8 
2.
4 0 4 4 0 4 
3.
2 1 2 -2 0 -2 
4. 
-3 0 1 -16 0 3 
5. 6. 
Yards TD Long 
7. 
238 1 38 
8. 9.
135 0 50 11 0 11 
10. 11.
Yards TD Long 
12. 
60 1 14 56 0 15 
13. 
33 0 20 
14.
15 0 13 13 0 10 
15. 
38 0 38 15 0 15 
16. 
8 0 8 
17. 18.
2 0 2 57 0 50 
19. 
34 0 23 42 0 42 
20. 
11 0 11 
21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 

Others receiving· ·votes: Arizona St. 94, Wisconsin 93, Southern Cal_ 59, Memphis St. 
57, San Diego  22, Georgia Tech  
18, West Virg  .._  Virginia 15,  
Louisville 13  gan  St.  12,  
Mississi  Texas Tech 5,  
Fresno  , Kansas 3,  
Mississi  , Washin ton St. 2.  

Florida AI Michi Miami Texas A& Syracuse Florida Tennessee Nebraska Colorado 
Notre Dame 

Washington Arizona North ... Penn Ohio Ok North: So Brigham You~g Clemson Georgia Stanford. Baylor · BostQn College 
. :·,·:~}i<:i~/-"::: 
1535 1 1464 2 1426 3 1301 4 1225 5 -0-0 1179 6 1-0-0 1097 8 1-0-0 1075 10 1-0-0 1057 9 1-0-0 1051 11 1-0-0 996 7 1-0-0 959 12 1-0-0 764 13 729 16 708 17 637 18 489 21 
--~ 
345 24 
327 1-0-0 323 19 1-0-0 288 22 0-1-0 191 14 o...l-0< 187 15 1-0-0 153 

·:¢~~:..­
0-1-0 )i 116 20 
..-> 

&~~~f:~~;:;~:?\_: :::. :-··::: 


The Observer/John Bingham 

Junior Willie Clark hits Northwestern tight end Luther Morris as he receives a pass. Justin Goheen (54) is at left. 
Lake Dawson joins his teammates in saluting the stu­
dent body after Saturday's 27-12 win over 
Northwestern. 



-
The Observer/John Bingham 

Junior Mike Miller turns the corner on a kickoff return, escaping the div­
Northwestern running back Dennis Lundy clutches the ball after player of the game Bobby Taylor hits him 
in the open field. 

~--~------~--------------------,-·-----~------------------------~----~-----­
September 6, 199 3 

page4 The Observer· FOOTBALL MONDAY 
Defense effective, but still work to be done 
John Covington and Renaldo Wynn wrestle Northwestern quarterback ceivers." sai Taylor. "I bro e pass interference. difference," said Northwestern Len Williams to the ground. on the ball and I wasn't sure if I "In the second half, after the coach Gary Barnett. 

·· 
Buill·iTI Kejboard & J(J' Backlil

Color Qassic• 4/flJ, Buill-in J(J' 4/flJ, Apple Basic Color 
Monitor &Apple Keyboard II. Super Twi5t Mo11ocbrome Display. Monitor &Apple ExJended Kej#Joard 1/.
Color Monitor &Apple Ke)6oard 11. 
Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh® see just how affordable aMacintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus personal computers. You can also get special student financing with Reseller today. And discover the power more college students .,_ the Apple Computer Loan·-to make owning aMac& even easier. 1b choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best~ 
e 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 

Cetllris"'610 4/fl}, Apple Basic Color 
"They had a great game plan
By GEORGE DOHRMANN be." 

Sports Editor It was on Saturday, and not to going in, and Lee Williams is disagree with Holtz, but it al­one of the better quarterbacks we will face and an elusive guy
Defense is everything. And ways will. 
when applying that to Notre "I think we played well, but which makes things more diffi­Dame you can take it literally. we still have a lot to improve cult." 
As the offense sputtered on on," said tackle Bryant Young, Northwestern's passing at­Saturday the Irish defenders who tied with Oliver Gibson for tack was reminiscent of Shane took it upon themselves to pick the team lead in sacks with Matthews and Florida in the 
1992 Sugar Bowl. And the Irish

up the slack, on defense and two. offense. The unit lost starting line­also mirrored the defensive Pete Bereich was the most backer Anthony Peterson in the strategy of that game, with a 
glaring example of how the de­first quarter but Justin Goheen bend but don't break defense. fense put points on the board, replaced him admirably and for Northwestern attempted to as he provided the only first the most part the linebackers confuse the Irish secondary 
half scoring for the Irish. But were not the most instrumental with late substitutions and com­
Greg Lane set up a key field part of the defense. plex formations. Notre Dame's 
goal in the fourth quarter and The defensive line got proba­coaching staff countered with safety Jeff Burris spent enough bly the only opportunity it will nickel and dime formations which include times six
time in the offensive backfield all season to solely pass rush, at to earn Notre Dame's clinching as the Wildcats used primarily defensive backs. 
a no-back set. The challenge facing the Irishtouchdown. 
defensive backfield was as­

"It's no secret that our de­"I switched to my passing 
fense is the strength of our rush moves from my straight tounding. Facing six receivers bull rush because of the no­on any given play and having
team," said Lou Holtz. "But that doesn't mean that it always will back," said Gibson different backs shuffle in and 
out. for the linebackers creates
,,..111. 
coverage problems. 
"The communication is the key, and I think we communi­cated well out there," said safe­ty Jeff Burris. "You can be suc­cessful as long as everyone is on the same page." · 
At times the defensive backs looked confused as they barked instructions back and forth at one another. But on the key plays they were on the same page. 
No play was bigger than Bobby Taylor's pass deflection at the end of the first quarter when he tipped away a ball in the endzone intended for Lee 
Gissendaner. 

"We were in a three deep zone and I was splitting the dis-The ObseiV8riMacy Hueckel tance betw~en the two rke-

a hand on it." turnover we got into a rhythm 
Taylor also made two miracu-on defense," said Holtz. lous pass breakups, but on both "They were able to match our instances he was flagged for substitutions and that made the 


