~--~---~­
j:_ 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 90 THURSDAY, APRIL 8. 1993 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Phelps speaks on need to 'weed and seed' cities 
By JIM VOGL He investigated the problems News Writer facing focus neighborhoods and 
sought input -especially from 
In order to solve inner-city those on the inside -on how to drug problems, our nation must solve them. make connections between Phelps recognized the poten­Americans both inside and tial of gang leaders and drug outside of cities, according to lords. "They could run every Richard "Digger" Phelps. corporation in America," he 
Phelps, former men's bas­said. "Of course, they don't ketball coach at Notre Dame, have the credentials or the worked as special assistant to qualifications, but they the Director of the Office of Na­certainly have the street smarts tional Drug Control Policy un­and the numbers." der the Bush administration Phelps described a mind-set 
from April 1992 through Jan­of despair which pervades the uary 1993. inner-cities. This "domestic 
"Today, the greatest threat to storm," as he called it, is national security is what drugs caused by corporations moving are doing to our cities," said to suburbs, leaving minorities Phelps, who headed "Operation stranded and jobless in the ci­Weed and Seed," a program ties. designated to weed out criminal "People on the inside (inner­
elements in targeted neighbor­cities) deserve the right to real hood areas and seed the sites jobs, not just sweeping floors," with drug prevention programs. he said, explaining the whole 
"Weed is to take out the bad new mind-set even a $20,000 a element," through law en­year job creates. "Your whole Phelps pointed out how the which require the commitment are considered heroes. forcement, Phelps said. self-esteem changes if you drug trade exploits inner-city of people on the outside. Phelps said the country must 
But more importantly, Phelps know you are working for neighborhoods. "The market "Before we can point a finger address inner-city problems added, communities must har­something." creates drug trade, not the at government, we've got to with the same energy and focus vest pro-active programs, Lacking such alternatives, dealers," he said, adding that start by pointing a finger at that other successful programs, "things that are already work­however, they turn to gangs for 80-percent of the market comes ourselves," Phelps said. such as M.A.D.D. (Mothers ing." These include job training, easy money and "a family out­from outside economically­Phelps also noted that 7 5-Against Drunk Driving) and drug rehabilitation and side the home." troubled communities. If all the percent of those in federal pris­smoking, have received. counseling sites for adults and Only by recognizing these estimated $15 billion in illegal ons are convicted on drug-re­Despite being criticized in after-school boys and girls problems can a solution be drug money stayed within the lated cases. With this mark on Washington as "one of Bush's clubs, and safe havens for chil­reached, Phelps said. Corporate communities, they would not be their record, they become cronies," Phelps embarked on a dren. America, along with community impoverished, he reasoned. blacklisted in the work force. serious mission through some 
In his 10 month tenure, service programs and the We cannot simply rely on But a double standard exists of the worst neighborhoods in Phelps became a a liaison be­government, must make a government and law enforce­in corporate America, where America. tween corporations. armed connection to "meet the needs ment agencies to cure society's blue collar drug addicts receive "I went places that were so forces, community leaders, of a community with its assets," ills, Phelps said. Americans treatment and support from gang leaders and drug addicts. he said. must form pro-active programs employers. If they recover, they see PHELPS I page 4 

Clinton poised to send 1994 fiscal budget proposal to Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton sends Congress his first full-scale federal budget Thursday, a $1.51 trillion spending plan guaranteed a se­rious -if not necessarily smooth -reception in the Democratic-led body. 
The Clinton fiscal 1994 budget already is drawing as much attention for what it won't in­clude as for what it will. Abor­tion restrictions, for instance, won't be there. Nor will pro­posals for health care financing or the president's new $1.6 bil­lion aid package for Russia. 
It also is the first budget in 12 years that isn't being declared "dead on arrival" by congressional leaders. 
In fact, the House and the Senate have already approved budget resolutions endorsing its broad outlines. 
But that doesn't mean there won't be fights. The budget Clinton sends Congress will de­tail thousands of specific spend­ing decisions to help him achieve his goal of close to $500 billion in deficit reduction over five years. 
And battles always come over details. They loom as con­gressional appropriations and tax-writing committees get down to the nitty gritty of spe­cific items. 
Republicans are. expected to pounce hard on many of the budget's proposals, as they have on Clinton's separate $16.3 billion fiscal 1993 stimulus package, now stalled in the Senate. 
Thursday's budget will put into details the many programs and proposals Clinton outlined in his economic address to a joint session of Congress on Feb. 17. 
Clinton's February 17 eco­nomic plan projected that the government in fiscal 1994 ­which begins Oct. 1 -would take in $1.25 trillion and spend $1.51 trillion, resulting in a $262 billion deficit. An adminis­tration official on Wednesday said there would be some changes from these in the fig­ures released on Thursday, but that they would be slight. 
Clinton's budget is expected to reflect his central campaign vows -cutting defense, cutting the deficit, and increasing "investment" 'spending on the nation's infrastructure (inc!uding highways and bridges). on education and on communications and other high-tech programs. 
The defense section -largely unveiled on March 27 by Defense Secretary Les Aspin ­calls for $263.4 billion in spending, $10 billion less than last year and $12 billion short of what former President Bush had envisioned. 
Defense savings in the slimmed-down budget come from a reduction of 108,000 in active duty military, a pay freeze and modest cuts in the Strategic Defense Initiative ­sometimes called "Star Wars." 
But the blueprint terminates no major Reagan-Bush era weapons systems. Aspin has called it a "treading water" budget. 
Clinton's proposal for addi­tional "infrastructure" spending is expected to be seen the most clearly in the Transportation Department budget-a 10.9 percent increase over this year. 
Total outlays would be $40.3 billion, including $28.4 billion on highways, bus transit systems, railroads, airports and maritime development. 
The Labor Department budget includes new spending for job training and assistance -key Clinton campaign promises. The president is proposing $4.1 billion over four years for such programs. 
The biggest single item: $2 billion to retrain dislocated workers who lose their jobs be­cause of military cuts, plant closings or the free-trade pact with Mexico 
The administration is also calling for $2.4 billion for job­less benefits for laid-off workers who have exhausted their state­administered benefits. 
see BUDGET/ page 4 


Committee addresses broader issues facing Colloquy 2000 
Editor's Note: The following "The work of that commit­is the last in a four-part series tee...is intended to be a contex­examining the initial committee tualization," said Malloy. reports ofColloquy for the year Instead of proposing specific 2000. recommendations, this com­
mittee focused on the larger is­By KATIE MURPHY sues facing Notre Dame, such 

Colloquy 
2000 

give a basic framework to the structures and processes, more University-oriented efforts chaired by math professor of the other three main Francis Connolly. Colloquy committees. The Mission subcommittee 
"We thought it would be was charged with redrafting the inappropriate and blind without University's mission statement. studying what was going on in According to the preliminary 
News Writer as the national economy, mod­the higher society," said Malloy. report, this revised statement
director. 

ern American values, interna­The four subcommittees in­"serves as the cornerstone of
Des Rosiers' subcommittee,
The initial report of the tional politics, and the Catholic clude Des Rosiers' subcommit­the entire Colloquy process." 
for example, addressed the idea 
Committee on Missions, Oppor­presence in a university setting. tee on American Culture, the The subcommittee on Ameri­
of national paradigm shifts. 

tunities and Challenges is in­This committee aimed to clarify Mission subcommittee headed can Higher Education generally 
"Our charge was to look at 
tended to provide a context for the issues facing Notre Dame. by Lawrence Cunningham, assessed the major concerns of
the whole American culture and 
the recommendations pre­"One of our goals was not to theology department chairper­an educational institution, in­
see how this had overtones in 
sented by the other three Col­really makes recommenda­son. the subcommittee on cluding the the relationship be­
the University life," said Des 
loquy committees, according to tions,'' said Sr. Elaine Des American Higher Education tween a university and its im­
Rosiers. 

University President and com­Rosiers, chairperson of the chaired by Thomas Frecka, ac­mediate community, current
The work of the Mission, Op­
mittee chair Father Edward subcommittee on American countancy department head, trends in higher education and
portunities and Challenges
Malloy. Culture and educational media and the subcommittee on
subcommittees is intended to see COLLOQUYI page 4 
--~ -~ 
page 2 The Observer Thursday, April 8, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A Bitter day at the office turns Bittersweet 
I was comfortably Horizontally Bound when my kids' voices awakened me, and I knew The Boneheads 
~ 

were up to no good. As 
soon as I entered the 

Sports Writer 
kitchen, there were Hot 
Grits A-Flyin' Coming 
From Behind me. -------­
Covered with breakfast, I was searching The Good, The Bad, and The Laundry for clean Shirts when my Plaid Pants started to get uncomfortable Below The Belt. I realized I had Severe Chafing Ill (There Is No Cure) because my Tighty Whities II (This Time It's Personal) were Pale Riders. 
An hour later. I was finally ready for work. "Blow Me (A Kiss)," my wife shouted as I hurried out the door. I saw Neal, Bob, and 3 Other Guys Who Work At The Hammer Plant Thundering Hard toward The Beer Train. Being The Old and Injured guy that I am, however. Movement Is Painful for me, and I had to go in Slow Motion. Soon I realized that I had Not A Chance In Hell to make it. The Steins drove me to catch the L-Train, and I finally made it to work at Eleven. 
The Boss was so ticked, his Smoldering Wig almost went up in flames. "In the boardroom," he shouted. "You, Me, Him, The Other Guy, and His Friend!" He tortured us with a long, boring lecture. "We simply have Too Few Good Men around here! We're riddled with Lack 0' Skill, and all I see when I walk through the office is Wasted Potential. Ladies and gentlemen, We're Just Not That Good!" My mind started to drift. "Nap Time," I said to myself, and drifted off to dreams of lunch. The boss woke me up again with his emphatic conclusion: "If we don't Put Up Or Shut Up, We Don't Stand A Ghost of A Chance in the corporate world, but if we do, we'll be As Good As We WannaBe!" 
Starving, I hustled to the cafeteria to see my co-workers feasting on all sorts of culinary delights: Yankee Pot Roast, Baked Potatoes, Pork: The Other White Meat, Baked Pollack Jarolinaire, and for dessert, Sexual Chocolate. I anxiously opened up my bag, but my heart sank. All I saw was Three 1\vinkies And A Pair Of Ding-Dongs. Obviously, my son was a Repeat Offender -he had exchanged our lunches again. I was forced to borrow Five Ones and buy some No Lard Burritos from the vending machine. 
Dreading the ride home on The Soul Train, I gladly accepted when Ugly Kid Joe offered to drive me. We were driving along behind a Busload to Palookaville when we witnessed a Drive By Shooting. The Bus Drivers' swerving reaction made us Crash and Burn. We felt No Pain, but had to hop out of the car into the pouring Acid Reign. Having No Clue what to do With Ourselves, Joe and I hurried into Ramona's Car Wash to take shelter. There, some Women On The Rebound picked us up. At long last, I arrived home, exhausted. 
I Ain't Sayin' how happy I was to walk in the door and see my wife stretched out in the hot tub. She winked, laid a Kiss of Finesse on me. and whispered, "Climb On In, Slim." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 8. 






TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Fiat's Chief Officer Charged 
• ROME -Authorities issued an arrest warrant today for the chief operating officer of Fiat, the latest high executive of the industrial giant caught up in a nationwide corruption scandal, a news agency said. He is the fifth top official of Italy's largest private to be charged in the probe. Others include the company's chief financial officer, now under house arrest. and heads of important subsidiaries.A Fiat spokesman said he could not immediately confirm the report. 

RoiDals Attend Funeral 
NATIONAL 

Arrest in Killing of Woman 
• LOS ANGELES -A man was arrested today in an investigation into the killing of a pregnant woman who was stabbed in the stomach in a bungled carjacking.A man was taken into custody in the March 30 attack on Sherri Foreman, a 29-year-old beautician who was three months pregnant. She died the next day. The man's identity was 


OF INTEREST 
• Eyewitness Report on Guatemala-German peace activist Heike Kammer will show slides highlighting 8 months in Guatemala with Peace Brigades International accompanying threatened indigenous, human rights and union organizers including 1992 Nobel Prize Winner, Rigoberta Menchu. Come hear the latest on popular 
FORECAST Cloudy and mild today with a chance of showers and possibly some thundershowers. Highs in the upper 50s. Lows today will be in the upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  46  25  
Atlanta  67  47  
Bogota  69  46  
Cairo  75  54  
Chicago  56  39  
Cleveland  63  34  
Dallas  77  57  
Detroit  58  36  
ndianapolis  67  40  
Jerusalem  64  50  
London  54  46  
Los Angeles  77  53  
Madrid  77  50  
Minneapolis  43  37  
Moscow  54  43  
Nashville  70  42  
New Vorl<  61  39  
Paris  55  48  
Philadelphia  62  40  
Rome  61  39  
Seanle  57  42  

South Bend 5838

© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Tokyo 61 45 
Washington D.C. 63 35 

~u 
PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
not disclosed, said police Officer Rigoberto Romero.Foreman had withdrawn money from an automated teller machine in suburban Sherman Oaks when a man approached and demanded her BMW, police said. The attacker snatched her purse and fled on foot. 
Marla With Child; Donald With Marla? 
• NEW YORK -It's official: Marla Maples' next role is mommy opposite Donald Trump's return as daddy.Maples, who appears in Broadway's "The Will Rogers Follies," is due to deliver her first child in October, Trump spokeswoman Norma 

Foerderer said Wednesday. The developer and casino owner is the proud papa, she said.The new arrival will be The Donald's fourth child as he relearns "The Art of the Diaper." He and his ex-wife, Ivana, have two sons and adaughter: Eric, 9, lvanka, 11, and Donny, 14. 
INDIANA 

No Conviction in Attack on Man 
• EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Peter Williams got back his nose in a jar, but the man he says bit it off got of unpunished.Williams lost most of his nose when it was bitten off in a fight outside a tavern on Feb. 19, 1992. The man accused of doing the biting, Carl A. Foster, 32, was acquitted Tuesday of aggravated battery. Deputy Prosecutor Michael Clay offered the nose in a specimen jar as evidence that Foster had chewed it off during the fight.Defense attorney Thomas Montgomery said there was "bad blood" between the two men and the complaint against Foster may have been a form of revenge. 
resistance to state-sponsored repression on Tuesday April 13 at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Heike's handcrafted jewelry will be on sale to benefit the work ofPBI. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

YESTERDAY•S TRADING April 7 
Today's Staff News 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX
Lab Tech 
Emily Hage 296,302,800 +0.70 to 244.32
Jon Halloran 

S&P COMPOSITE +1.57 to 442.73

Accent

Production 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS
Mara Davis Allison Ebel 
+19.45 to 3397.02

Lynn Bauwens 
UNCHANGED 581 
Whitney Sheets 

GOLD 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 
+$0.50 to $338.40 oz 
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
SILVER 

-$.012 to $3.867 oz
rights are reserved. 
• 
In 1908: President Roosevelt announced an injunction requiring equal railway accommodations for Negroes in the South. 

• 
In 1933: West Australia voted to secede from the British Commonwealth. 

• 
In 1946: The League of Nations assembled in Geneva for the last time. 

• 
In 1949: The Soviet Union used its veto power to block 


U.N. membership for South Korea. 
• In 1974: Hank Aaron of the Atlanta Braves hit his 715th career home run in a game against the Los Angeles Dodgers, breaking Babe Ruth's record. 

--~-----~--------~ ~-~ 
Thursday, April 8, 1993 
The Observer 
page 3 




Radioactive cloud moves over Siberia 
MOSCOW (AP} -A radioactive cloud moved across Siberia on Wednesday after a tank of ra­dioactive waste exploded in what the government called the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. 
Russian and foreign experts said Tuesday's explosion at the Tomsk-7 nuclear weapons complex was far less severe than the 1986 Chernobyl disas­
AP mand was monitoring the ra­
ter. But a spokesman for the 
dioactive cloud, which wasenvironmental group Green­
moving northeast toward less
peace said several villages densely populated areas at awere at risk from windborne 
height of 1.2 miles and a speedfallout. 
of22 mph.
No deaths were reported and Late Wednesday, the cloudno one was evacuated from the passed north of Ashino, a town
contaminated region, about 
of about 30,000 people 75 miles1,700 miles east of Moscow. 
northeast of Tomsk, accordingOnly one fireman received a 
Well Wishers 
to Dmitry Tolkatsky of Green­The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 
high dose of radiation, said Ge­peace's Moscow office. 
orgy Kaurov, head of the Nu­Randi Tharaldsen, an off-campus senior and long time friend of Todd Broski signs a get-well card in the lobby clear Energy Ministry's infor­of LaFortune Student Center. Broski suffered a severe neck injury in a Rugby game last Saturday . Tolkatsky said the cloud was
mation department. 
heading toward the Yenisei
The State Emergency Commit­

UN withholds aid to free Muslim refugees
River in the general direction of tee said radiation levels around 11 Siberian villages, each withTomsk-7 were .03 roentgens 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-

a few thousand inhabitants. said. dence from Belgrade inper hour Wednesday. Northeast Herzegovina (AP} -The United Churkin later met with
"They keep saying there's no February 1992. More than
of the plant, levels were .04 
Nations held back an aid Bosnian Serb leader Radovan
danger and no evacuation is 134,000 people-some reportsroentgens. 
planned, but the situation in delivery to Srebrenica on Karadzic. He was expected to say 200,000 -are dead or 
Wednesday in an attempt to pressure the Serbs to accept a missing. Two million more arethose villages is unpredictable," The average acceptable dose 
Tolkatsky said. pressure town leaders to let U.N. peace plan that partitions hornless.
for nuclear workers is 2 roent­
Muslim refugees leave. 
Bosnia into 10 semi-au­On Wednesday, U.N. officialsgens per year, according to the Local officials prevented an tonomous provinces along
The Greenpeace spokesman postponed an aid delivery to
International Commission on 
evacuation Tuesday, saying a
also said he expected the num­mainly ethnic grounds. Srebrenica. But a top-rankingRadiological Protection. A ber of firefighters with high mass exodus would weaken the Russia's vote is crucial if the official, Jose-Maria Mendiluce,roentgen is a measure of the doses of radiation to rise. defenses of the eastern town, U.N. Security Council moves to was negotiating with Bosnianhuman body's exposure to ra­
which has been under Serb
The explosion was considered a tighten existing sanctions on officials in the northeastern city diation. 
siege for months. Yugoslavia. A traditional Serb of Tuzla to try to resume an"third-class incident" on theRussian authorities said the seven-point International Gen. Philippe Morillon of ally and a permanent Security evacuation of the sick, thewind blew the radiation away Atomic Energy Agency scale, France, the U.N. commander in Council member with veto wounded, women, children and from Tomsk-7, a secret military 
Bosnia, meanwhile made power, it has so far delayed
according to Kaurov, the Nu­the elderly. 
city built by the Soviets, and the 
another journey to Srebrenica tougher action. 
clear Energy Ministry Lyndall Sachs, an agency
much larger nearby city of 
spokesman. The Chernobyl to help protect the 60,000 res­As Bosnia enters its second spokeswoman, said 18 trucksTomsk, which has about idents and refugees exposed to year of ethnic war, warring
disaster rated seven. were to leave Belgrade for500,000 inhabitants. 
cold, hunger and Serb attacks. factions and the international Srebrenica on Thursday. NineTomsk-7 does not appear on Morillon left from Sarajevo community remain divided over would bring aid, and nine"It has been the single worstordinary maps, and its exact with a force of 150 Canadian how to end the bloodshed. 
accident since the Chernobyl would arrive empty to carry out population is unknown. 
peacekeepers and five armored Bosnia's Serbs have refused to Muslims.
catastrophe," Kaurov said. 
Commonwealth television said cars, said Barry Frewer, a sign the U.N. peace plan, but Morillon's decision to return tothe Russian Air Defense Com-
spokesman for U.N. peace­
British Defense Secretary Srebrenica followed reports of keepers in Sarajevo. 
Malcolm Rifkind warned intensified fighting in the area. 
"His intention is not to blast or against "a sort of John Wayne 
Bosnian radio reported three 
force his way in," Frewer said. solution whereby you go in with 
people killed and 11 wounded "We will persevere and guns blazing, sort it out and in overnight shelling. U.N. 
negotiate." then leave a few weeks or officials said some 30 shells


St.,unmer•Storage! 
Morillon highlighted Sre­months later." 
landed Tuesday. brenica's plight last month by "History tells us that does not In Sarajevo, four· people were going there on his first personal work," Rifkind said on British 
killed and seven wounded bymission. Some of the bloodiest Broadcasting Corp. radio. 
sniper fire trying to cross the fighting in Bosnia recently has "Perhaps 100,000 U.N. troops 
airport runway overnight, U.N. centered around the town. could be bogged down there for officials said. Srebrenica lies close to the vital the next 10, 15, 20 years." Six U.S. patrol boats 
road that links the Yugoslav In The Hague, the World Court meanwhile arrived in Romania capital, Belgrade, to the announced it would deliver a to help Romania and Bulgaria 
As Low ;bs $5.78Per Month! 
Rese~vatioV\ 683-1959 
Bosnian Serbs' self-styled ruling Thursday on Bosnia's re­enforce trade sanctions on capital in Pale. quest for emergency protection Yugoslavia.In Belgrade, Russian special against what it claims is 
The two eastern European

(684-0285) 
envoy Vitaly Churkin conferred 
genocide by the Serbs. countries said they lacked the with Serbian President Slobo­Bosnian Serbs, backed by technological sophistication to 
dan Milosevic about "a new Serb-dominated Yugoslavia, keep contraband goods from
Maste~ Mi~i•Wa~ehotAse 
Russian initiative toward 
have seized 70 percent of reaching Yugoslavia via the resolving the conflict" in Bosnia since majority Muslims Danube River through their Bosnia, the Tanjug news agency and Croats voted for indepen-territory. 

Congratulate yo~r Special Graduate In The Observer 

for our commencement issue. 
You can receive this size ad with a picture and a special message. 
Just send $20, picture and note to: 


P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556





Free De ivery 271--1177 
DEADLINE IS MAY 12 FOR THE ISSUE ON MAY 14. 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, April 8, 1993 
Macedonia's UN membership approved 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Macedonia was approved for 
U.N. admission by the Security Council on Wednesday after months of haggling with Greece over the symbolism of the former Yugoslav republic's name and flag. 
One argument between Greece and Macedonia has roots going back 2,400 years: who has the right to claim Alexander the Great's emblem as its national heritage. 
Greece also claims the name Macedonia is part of its heritage and implies territorial designs on the northern Greek province of the same name. 
Under a compromise worked out with Greece, the new country was admitted with the cumbersome provisional name "The Former Yugoslav Province of Macedonia." Negotiators will choose a new name later. 
To avoid offending Greece during the meeting, the Security Council resorted to elaborate word play. 
Its resolution did not mention Macedonia by name, referring to it only as "the state whose application is contained in doc­ument s/25147," and "the state concerned." 
The council president, Ambassador Jamsheed Marker of Pakistan, did utter the "M­word" in a brief statement explaining that the name "The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" did not imply an ongoing connection to Yugoslavia or the right to use the name "Macedonia." 
The unanimous vote by the 15 council members sends the application to the General Assembly, where it must be approved by two-thirds of its 170 members. Passage is expected when the assembly meets Thursday. 
Some delicate issues remain, however. 
Jackson says he's not interested in NAACP post
U.N. officials don't know where Macedonia would be seated in the General Assembly's alphabetical seating plan -among the Ms. or with the Ys next to Yugoslavia, or under F for "Former Yugoslav Province." 
Under the agreement between Greece and Macedonia, an arbitration committee will decide the new name and other disputes within two months. 
In Athens, Greek Foreign Minister Michalis Papacon­stantinou said: "I consider this a satisfactory development, and from now on negotiations will begin which, I never hid, will be difficult." 
The latest delay to U.N. admission was Macedonia's adoption last year of a flag that included the 16-rayed Star of Vergina, symbol of the Macedonian dynasty of the 4th century B.C. Greek warrior-king Alexander the Great. 

Phelps 
continued from page 1 
bad, I didn't want my wife knowing," including Trenton, San Antonio, East L.A., and Washington, D.C., he said. "You've got to go in unan· nounced and see for yourself." 
Phelps retired as Notre Dame's head basketball coach in 1991. After beginning his career at Fordham University, Phelps compiled a record of 393-197 in 20 years for the Irish. 

Colloquy 
continued from page 1 
jobs, and the balance between Catholicity and research in a Catholic colleges. 
The Structures and Processes subcommittee examined the manner in which the students. faculty, and administration in­teract through various bodies. It also addressed the nature of literature mailed to Notre Dame constituencies. Above all, the subcommittee stressed the need for an improvement of coordination between various campus groups. 
The information gathered by these groups will be used to support the final recommenda­tions of the Colloquy, which will be presented next month to the University's board of trustees. "The intention is not to include this material, other than the mission statement, in the final document." said Malloy. 

Budget 
continued frompage 1 

Clinton's $590 billion budget for the Department of Health and Human Services -the agency that spends the most ­is expected to boost spending for children, women's health and AIDS research, care and prevention. 
But nothing will be set aside for either universal health care or proposed welfare reform, officials said. Clinton's health care proposal is not due out until late May -at which time he will propose both a system for providing health care for all Americans and a way of paying for it. 
"You can't have a budget for something there is no package for," said Campbell Gardett, an HHS spokesman. 
Also to be gone from this year's health budget: abortion restrictions that had been perennials for both Reagan and Bush. 
Clinton plans to scrap the Hyde amendment (named after Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill) banning federal payments for poor women's abortions and to ditch the prohibition on covering abortions in health plans of federal workers. 
On the foreign aid front, Clin­ton is expected to propose an increase of $700 million in aid to Russia. 
But none of the $1.6 billion package of new aid he an­nounced at last weekend's summit in western Canada with Russian President Boris Yeltsin will be in the budget. Clinton has said those funds will all come from various earlier congressional appropriations. 
Israel and Egypt will continue to be the single biggest recipients of U.S. foreign aid ­$3 billion for Israel and $2.2 billion for Egypt, same as this year. 
Some other expected details of Thursday's budget: 
-The $30 billion Space Sta­tion Freedom will be fully funded at $2.1 to $2.3 billion, although officials are looking for ways to cut the overall price tag by about half. 
-Scarce federal dollars will likely keep to a minimum the number of new education pro­grams Clinton will propose. But the budget is expected to. con­tain money for a modest pilot program of his National Service Trust program -in which stu­dents could repay college loans through public service. 
-Much of a proposed $1.2 billion increase in the budget of the Veterans Affairs Depart­ment would go to improving VA hospitals and medial care. 
_::M;_ 
SAINT MAIN'S COl Ll CE 
t\ORtftU CtnTtR 
fOR Jlft <ll RT S 
SATURDAY, APRIL 17 AT 8P.M., O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 




MARGIE GILLIS 
,WASHINGTON (AP) -The Rev. Jesse Jackson, citing a move by some NAACP board members to weaken the posi­tion of executive director. said Wednesday he is no longer in· terested in heading civil rights organization. 
Jackson withdrew in a letter to NAACP board Chairman William Gibson, dated Wednes­day. The withdrawal came two days before the NAACP's full board is to vote on a successor to Benjamin Hooks, who is to retire at the end of the month. 
A message left for Gibson at his Greenville, S.C., office was not immediately returned. 
The five-page letter, dated April 7, was received in the NAACP's Baltimore headquar­
ters,  saip  spokesman  Jim  
Williams.·"'  
"Even if my  number  one  

ranking is upheld by the full board of directors, it would not be in the best interest of the NAACP membership for me to continue to permit my name to be considered," Jackson wrote. 
Jackson said he ''had a chance to reflect" on a pro­posed rule change that would broaden the board's powers over day-to-day functions of the National Association for the Ad· vancement of Colored People. 
"The idea . . . is a substantial shift from the current constitu­tion," Jackson said. "A strong director -with meaningful powers and duties-is essen· tial to a strong NAACP. 
"I felt, then and now, that on the matter of constitutional changes, I would err on the side of conservatism because constitutional changes have such long-lasting effects," he said. "Although I have with­drawn my name from consid­eration; l have not withdrawn my love, my respect and my hope for the NAACP's survival and progress." 
The NAACP, the nation's oldest civil rights organization, has half a million members. 
Jackson indicated that he would not attend the Friday meeting in Atlanta. An or­dained Baptist minister, Jack· son said the meeting conflicted with the Easter holiday. 
His withdrawal came amid rumors in NAACP circles that many chapters -as well as some black Americans who look to the NAACP for leader­ship -objected to Jackson's candidacy. ­
His supporters argued that Jackson's national visibility would be good for the organiza­tion. Opponents argued that the NAACP needs new blood among its leadership. 
Howard University political scientist Ron Walters, an ad­viser to Jackson's 1988 presi­dential campaign, said Jack­son's departure "really says more about the NAACP than it does about Rev. Jackson." 
"Anyone would have to con­sider whether they would run an organization as big as the NAACP under those condi­tions," Walters said. "It's sad. Not sad for Jackson, but for all the rest of us." 
Speculation about a Jackson pullout intensified last month after a search committee failed to narrow the field of four can­didates despite heavy lobbying by Jackson supporters. 
The other candidates for the job are the Rev. Benjamin Chavis. 45, head of the United Church of Christ's Commission For Racial Justice; Jewell Jack­son McCabe, 4 7, founder of the National Coalition of 100 Black Women; and Earl Shinhoster, 42, NAACP Southeastern re­gional director. 
Shinhoster said Jackson's departure does not detract from the pool of candidates. 
"Whether persons stay in the race or leave the race is not the issue," he said. ''It's important to me that the NAACP draws people of note. I simply am the best person for the position." 

~WU[pJ[JJ]® 
Pick up your Senior Month Booklet and Senior Fellow Ballot 
at the LaFortune Info Desk Apri/13-15 


SOLO DANCE 
NO ONE COMES CLOSE TO HER EXTRAORDINARY ARTISTRY AS ASOLO PERFORMER-SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE COMPLIMENTARY SEATS FOR SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS* SM'S-ND COMMUNITY $3 
•while quantities last. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's bo~ office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Fnday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 
Saint Mag!'s Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 



Thursday, April 8, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Cuomo withdraws from Supreme Court picture 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Mario Cuomo, the best-known candidate for the upcoming Supreme Court vacancy, for­mally withdrew Wednesday from consideration before President Clinton had narrowed his list of prospects. 
In a letter to Clinton, Cuomo said wanted to remain as gov­ernor to help New York's economic recovery. He said staying in the political world would allow him to "continue to serve as a vigorous supporter of the good work you are doing for America and the world." 
The letter was sent to confirm an earlier telephone con­versation with Clinton, but it does not say when the tele­phone call was made. 
Clinton refused earlier in the day to confirm reports of the withdrawal, but said, "I think 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
""()u'r-e A Sur-e Winner­
When "¥VU Live At tilt:kf)n' Villal!e 

Save S24f)!
Hurry ln. For s limited time on s one-yesr /esse. 
Efficiencies from only $250 1-Bedrooms from only $265 2-Bedrooms from only $325 
• Beautifully landscaped  • 24-hour Emergency  
Grounds  Maintenance Service  
• Pool &Clubhouse  • Planned Activities  
• laundry Facilities  • Free Aerobics  
• Balcony or Patio  • Close To Shopping  
• Air Conditioning  

What are you waiting for? Call or stop by today and we11 show you why you can't lose at Hickory Village. 

f 
c 
~ 
EOISON-!---1-1 
ll" 
-+----'"'f-llcKINLEY 
JEFFERSON 

272-1880 
+llCKORij DlLLAC]Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 1 o-4 & Sun. 12-4 
he's terrific." 
Cuomo's decision removes the only candidate with celebrity quality from the long list of names earning speculation in Washington. It would appear to be an indication that Cuomo may run for a fourth term as governor. 
Aides said Clinton is at least a month away from making his choice. There is no hurry, since White will not retire until the end of the court's term, usually late June or July. 
Cuomo's decision, which Newsday said was forwarded to Clinton last Thursday, was unknown to some of Clinton's closest advisers until now. That is an indication of how hard the president is working to avoid leaks that plagued some of his Cabinet selections. 
Among the candidates being mentioned by administration officials are Judge Judith Kaye, chief judge of New York's highest state court; Judge Patricia Wald, who sits on the 
U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington; and Judge Richard Arnold of Little Rock, who sits on the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Arnold is an old friend of Clinton. 
Clinton has by no means limited his choices to those three people, White House of­ficials say. 
In the rampant speculation about the Sup-reme Court opening, Cuomo had emerged as the liberal wing's sentimental choice, though the Clinton inner circle had never tipped its hand about Cuomo's chances. 
But the loss of a celebrity candidate in Cuomo could rob 
Government asks for dismissal of charges 
WASHINGTON {AP) -The Justice Department moved Wednesday to drop federal charges against Washington powerbroker Clark M. Clifford and law partner Robert A. Alt­man in connection with the scandal-plagued international bank,BCCI. 
However, the government asked for a dismissal without prejudice, meaning it could bring the charges again. In addition, through agreement with Clifford and Altman, the government reserved the right to bring new, broader charges in the future through a criminal information that, unlike an in­dictment, does not require a grand jury. 
The prosecutors sought the action in a motion to U.S. Dis­trict Judge Joyce Hens Green, who had scheduled the federal trial to start June 1, both be­cause of Clifford's heart prob­lems and because of Altman's current prosecution on state charges in New York. -''The present status of Mr. 
5'x10' •.•....... $92 


10'x10'•.•..•..$140 

1753 E. 12th St.,
10'x15' ........ $168 10'x20' ........ $200 Mishawaka 
ATTENTION 

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 
SUMMER STUDENTS! 
Enrollment is extremely limited for the summer session of organic chemistry. Ifyou are interested in taking orgo this summer and have not contacted the chemistry and biochemistry department, applications are to be made with us in room 252 Nieuwland, Mon-Fri between 8-12 and 1­5 or call Pam McCormack at 1-4040 by April16, 1993. Final decisions will be made by April 20th. 
• 
Clinton of one of the qualities he is seeking in a nominee. Another White House official familiar with the search process said Clinton wanted "someone who will make people say 'Wow,' whether they agree with the person or not." 
Clinton has said only that he wants a justice who will respect the right to privacy, an argument that is the under­pinning for a woman's right to an abortion. Clinton said he would not directly ask any potential nominee his or her position on abortion. 
White House officials said Clinton may be trying to make history with his first choice to the Supreme Court. That could help the chances of Amalya Kearse, a New York federal judge who is black. 
She believes in abortion 

Clifford's health is such that it is nearly certain that he will not be available for trial on June 1, let alone available in advance to assist his attorneys in prepara­tion for trial," the motion said. 
Clifford, 86, underwent open­heart surgery on March 22. He has agreed, the motion said, to undergo a physical examination by a court-approved physician at any time within six months of the dismissal of the charges to determine his fitness to stand trial. 
The government also disclosed for the first time that the FBI had tapped Clifford's phone "over a dozen years ago," but said none of the three electronic interceptions "relate in any way whatsoever to any aspect of this case." 
Clifford's and Altman's at­torneys had pressed for the disclosures after prosecutors in the New York trial said they "had reason to believe" there had been electronic intercep­tions of conversations among some of the witnesses they 




259-8221 
rights, but is considered a moderate-to-conservative. Sen. Arlen Spector, R-Penn., has already said her confirmation would be easy. 
Jose Cabranes, a federal judge from New Haven, Conn., is another named that is being bandied about. He could be the first Hispanic on the court. 
A drawback to both Kearse and Cabranes is their lack of public experience, a quality that Clinton is known to value. 
White House aides said Clinton's decision is at least a month away because Clinton is taking his time. It also might help him politically to make the nomination as late as possible to stave off campaigns against the candidate, although officials said that is not entering Clinton's thinking. 
planned to call. Mark Dubester, an assistant 
U.S. attorney, also said in an affidavit there were two FBI electronic interceptions involv­ing a Robert Altman more than a decade ago, but added he be­lieves that Altman is a different person from the defendant. 
Carl Rauh, an attorney for Clifford and Altman, said he had no idea what the FBI wiretaps of Clifford might show. 
''I'm not sure that it's relevant anymore," Rauh said. "We're just enjoying the fact that the case has been dismissed. We think the Justice Department did the right thing here." 
A federal grand jury indicted Clifford, a former Defense sec­retary and adviser to several presidents, and Altman last July 29 on charges of conspiring to defraud the Federal Reserve Board by concealing the role of the foreign-owned Bank of Credit and Commerce Inter­national in acquiring U.S. banks. 
Correction 

In a page one headline yesterday, The Observer ran a headline which inaccu­rately claimed that permis­sion has been granted to establish a women's re­source center at Notre Dame. Rather, the Office of Student Affairs gave per­mission to the Women's Re­source Committee to dis­tribute needs assessment forms to students. The establishment of a the center is still pending permission. The Observer regrets the error. 
page 6 The Observer 








Clinton moves ahead in Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Be­

tween the Democratic-con­
trolled 103rd Congress and 
President Clinton, it has been 
more lockstep than gridlock. 
Despite a setback on his still­lingering jobs bill, Clinton in 75 days won approval for his eco­nomic blueprint, reordering economic priorities and envi-· sioning higher taxes, defense cuts and selected domestic spending increases. He and the lawmakers worked together to pass the family leave bill that Democrats had been seeking for years. 
In addition, Congress sup­ported Clinton in his plan to lift the bans on abortion counseling at federally funded clinics and on using Medicaid funds for the abortions of poor women, sharp reversals of 12 year of Reagan­Bush policies. 
They brought the Motor Voter Registration Act back for another go-round and cooper­ated in laying the groundwork for a national health reform plan. 
"I think we've made re­markable progress in a short period of time," said Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, reflecting the key fac­tor: for the first time since Jimmy Carter was in the White House, one party has controlled both houses of Congress and the executive branch. 
"I would say from Clinton's perspective, it has been suc­cessful so far," acknowledged Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., who wrote the law banning use of Medicaid funds for abortions. "He has been able to encourage his troops to rally around the flag, and they have done so with only minor dissent." 

At the same time, Republicans bristle over what they feel is Clinton's failure to consult them often enough. 
"The only call I got was from the president of the American Red Cross," deadpanned Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole, referring to his wife, Elizabeth Dole. "I told her I didn't want to give blood." 
The jobs bill setback may have been a reflection of the GOP's determination to keep from being steamrollered by the Clinton juggernaut. 
Clinton pledged Tuesday to continue his fight for the bill, and the White House and Democratic leaders said they were ready to compromise after three unsuccessful efforts to crack a Republican filibuster. 
"We will see when Congress comes back whether the Re­publicans are committed to putting America back to work or just playing politics," the president said. 
The jobs bill aside, Clinton has shown a willingness to walk away from other fights when the odds were against his prevailing. When both the House and Senate voted ­against Clinton's wishes -to block immigration by people affected with the AIDS virus, the White House put up scarcely a fuss. "The president has to work with Congress. He can't act unilaterally on issues like this," said Dee Dee Myers, White House press secretary. 
The Democrats. who have majorities in both chambers, have stuck with Clinton despite his relatively weak public honeymoon period. Clinton's poll ratings are lower at this point than those of his Republi­can predecessors. 
Key parts of his program are politically unpopular, too, espe­cially his tax increases on en­ergy and Social Security. 
But Clinton has proved to be a skillful lobbyist, eager to jump into the fray or just show up on Capitol Hill for a meal. 
On St. Patrick's day, the House canceled its votes while Clinton was there for lunch. Members joked that they were afraid if they left the room, Clinton would snitch their corned beef. 
But there were mistakes, too, some of which could continue to haunt the new administration. 
Los Angeles edgy as King verdict nears 
LOS ANGELES (AP) Armored personnel carriers have moved in. Police are packing rubber bullets and tear gas. Korean-American merchants have stocked up on guns. Even churches are ready, making plans to stay open as long as necessary and patrol their neighborhoods. 
The city is nervous as the second Rodney King beating trial draws to a close, but determined to avoid a repeat of the devastating riots that followed acquittals in the first trial last spring. 
Los Angeles isn't the only worried city. San Francisco was among other cities hit by rioting last year, and at least one store there already has begun boarding up its windows at night. 
Jury deliberations in the federal trial are expected to begin on Good Friday and could continue through Easter. Almost every resident, from merchant to mayor, prays violence will be avoided. 
Police Chief Willie Williams and Mayor Tom Bradley promised this week to send 6,500 uniformed officers into the streets as soon as delibera­tions begin. Those officers will carry special riot-control gear and a serious attitude. 
"We're not going to fail you this time," Williams told Los Angeles. 
His predecessor, Daryl F. Gates, was accused of not caring and not acting quickly enough last spring when the state jury acquitted four white officers of most charges in the March 3, 1991, beating of the black motorist. 
What followed were three days of wanton lawlessness in which 54 people died and 10,000 businesses were destroyed. Damage estimates reached $1 billion. 
"People cannot afford to lose anymore or have any more damage done to their communities," said Tony Salazar, co-chair of Rebuild L.A., a private group of business and community leaders formed after the riots. 
"People in Los Angeles are generally tired of it and want to put the riots behind them." 
Easier said than done. The federal trial isn't the end of it. On Wednesday, a trial was 
Wo~nen~s Bool{store

Basl{etball 
sign-ups Wed., April 14 7-9 p.m., 2nd Floor LaFortune Bring team name & $7 entry fee 
Questions? Call Marianne at 273-2388 
postponed until July for three black defendants charged with attacking white trucker Reginald Denny at the start of the riots. 
Meanwhile, Los Angeles waits. 
Police officers carry rubber bullets and tear gas. The National Guard has moved in armored personnel carriers. Churches throughout South Central. site of last spring's worst devastation, will open as soon as the verdicts are read and remain open as long as they are needed. 
The First AME Church held a meeting Wednesday night to review church leaders' strategies for patrolling their neighborhoods, staffing a rumor-control station and caring for their youngsters. 
"We need to have a voice of reason," church spokesman Mark Whitlock said. "We need to have a calm, analytic response." 
• 


Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 
-----~----­
Thursday, April 8, 1993 

Clinton proposes cut in purchases of park land 
WASHINGTON (AP) -After promi.S.In.g during his campaign to buy tpore park and recreation lands, President Clinton is proposing funding substantially below what Ge· orge Bush spent for that pur­pose. an administration official confirmed Wednesday. 
To the diSmay of conservation groups, Clinton is proposing $209 million for public land acquisition in his fiscal 1994 budget to be released Thursday, considerably less than the $366 mUlionBush sought last year. the· official said, speaking only on condition he not be named. 
The Clinton administration has decided to focus on upkeep and repair of lands the government already owns in­stead of buying new property, officials said. 
"'There is a budget reality that is clear. There is not a Jot of money to go around," said Kevin Sweeney, spokesman for Interio.r Secretary Bruce Babbitt. Sweeney refused to confirm the budget figures that wUl be released Thursday, but noted Babbitt has madeit a clear priority "to make sure that the parks we have are in very good shape." 
·"The commitment is there to restOre the parks," he said. The National Park Service faces a $4 billio.n backlog of serious maintenance problems. some of which were targeted with a $250 million allocation in Clinton's economic stimulus package that is stalled in Congress. 
The Park Service is slated for a 19 percent operating increase in the 1994 budget, and an overall budget increase of $300 million,. to $1.5 billion, according to the official who spoke anonymously. 
But environmentalists and their congressional allies contend the government also should fully utilize a fund specifically designated for public land acquiSition. 
Environmentalists already were upset with Clinton for dropping his insistence that Congress use the budget pro­cess to levy royalties on miners vvho use western lands and raise grazing fees, a shift that 
the administration counters 
was one of tactics not policy. 
They greeted the latest news 
glumly. 
"That is an absolute disaster. It breaks a campaign promise," said Ralph DeGennaro, a budget analyst for Friends of the Earth. 
"If this is true, we would be disappointed because we had hoped from the position that the president had taken during the campaign that we would be doing much better," said Don Hellman, a Wilderness Society attorney. 
Clinton had promised in his campaign book "Putting People First" to "expand ocir· efforts to acquire new parklands and recreational sites with funds already available under the federal I.and and Water Conservation Fund." 
That fund was established by Congress in 1965, mostly from royalties paid to the gov­ernment for offshore oil and gas drilling. Congress desig­nated the fund for purchase of federal recreation lands and to give states matching grants for their own park projects. 
Historically, Congress has appropriated less than the $900 million available to the fund annually, leaving a surplus of more than $9 billion on paper. 
For the last decade. Congress has generally increased the president's request, with appropriations averaging about $250 million a year. However, in the last two years of his presidency. Congress cut Bush's request -in 1993 to $283 million, from $366 million, and in 1992 to $317 million from $350 million he sought. 
President Reagan had re~ quested as little as $15 million in spending, but Congress brought the figure up for each year of hiS presidency. 
Sen. Bennett Johnston, D-La.• last week introduced legislation calling for dedication of $1 billion a year from the fund without having to go through congressional appropriation. 


Easter Special $39.99 
~ 

CAN'T GET HOME FOR EASTER? 
Invite the·folks to visit you! Take advantage of our Student Easter Special. TWo nights for the price of one Friday and saturday April 9-10, 1993 


52757 us 31 North south Bend, IN 46637 (219) 277-0510 
Thursday, April 8, 1993 page 7 
..~--~~--~--.-------------------------._--~--~~.--~----~----~--~~---.--------------------~---------------------------------~-------~~ 



Viewpoint 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in..Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor •••••..••Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ...•Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor.••...Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager .•••••Staph Goldman Sports Editor .••.•.••.•.George Dohrmann Production Manager ..•..•..... Kathy Fong Accent Editor•.•..•••••..•.•.Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor •.......•........•.••.• Jake Peters OTS Director ...•.•.•..•...... Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor •••.Jennifer Habrych Controller ...••.•.•••••••••••••••..Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
II'S A D£SPE:RA1E ?L(J yI BU-r \F AN'/­'THIN61 Wl~L Gt~T 
1£M OUT Bf.fORG £ASTER, i»IS WILL. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Cheerleading coach unqualified 

Dear Editor: 
Imagine for a moment the following scene: 
Interviewer: So you are ap­plying to coach an athletic pro­gram at Notre Dame. Have you ever coached this sport before? 
Applicant: No. 
Interviewer: Okay, have you ever participated in the sport before? 
Applicant: No, I haven't done that either. 
Now imagine learning that this applicant was granted the position. As ridiculous as this situation sounds, the University has recently made just such a hiring decision for its cheer­leading program. In bringing attention to this, we mean no disrespect or ill will toward the recently-hired cheerleading coach. 
We commend Ms. Clements for her professionalism and thank her for her genuine con­cern for the quality of the pro­gram. Nonetheless, we find the way in which the hiring was done to be unacceptable for a school of this caliber and a pro­gram of such high visibility. 
Although many do not con­sider cheerleading to be a sport, this belief does not justify cheating the cheerleaders from having a qualified coach. Music is not a sport, yet we doubt that the University would hire a band director or orchestra conductor with no musical background. Why, then, is cheerleading not given the same basic respect and consid­eration of its program needs? It would have been just as easy to hire a qualified coach, yet this simply was not done. 

The cheerleading coach must make many decisions which require knowledge of the sport. More importantly, the coach must ensure that all gymnas­tics, partner stunts, and pyra­mids are performed with proper technique and safety standards. An unknowledgeable coach not only makes it difficult for the squad to present its best possible appearance, but also places the safety of squad members in jeopardy. 
To members of the squad, one of the most important goals is to improve and build a quality program. We had hoped that the members of the athletic de­partment would share and support this goal. Instead, they disregarded it. Although the athletic department supports the cheerleaders financially and we are sure that they are grateful, a more appropriate form of support would be sim­ply acting in their best interest. 
We understand that cheer­leading is not the department's top priority, and we don't ex­pect it to be. Nonetheless, we do expect the department to treat its athletes fairly; this hiring decision is not only unfair but insulting to the program as a whole. From the moment we arrived at Notre Dame as freshmen, we have been told of the high standards of excellence that this University stands for. Why are these standards now being ignored? 
Jennifer Finn Jackie Dudon Angi Jones Will Robinson Darin Prado April6, 1993 
need attitude adjustment 
7HeRE'S AN E:XfRAO!<f}INARY 
HUMAN 01?4Mtl UNFOIPIN6 IN 
CtJLO!?AW. ANA9ffl.l !'I1AN HA9 /3UN 8/JRIWAUI.I/3 IN HIS CABIN 8YANAVAI.ANCH&.' 
lXJN'T 78/J.-lrl&-r<e3CI.Jt:. aKJRK­&RS AF& OIGGIN6 Ff31!3RJ?HL.Y APIJUNO 7Hl3 aa:t< IN A H&ROIC ffFOf<T 70 ~CH lH/3 7l?APPeO MAN IN T/Ml3 ~ 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the letter which appeared in Viewpoint on April 6 from William Partridge and William McDonald, two Notre Dame students who are currently in Innsbruck. I do not so much wish to defend the Viewpoint section of The Observer, which they accuse of "intellectual stagnation," as I wish to ques­tion the attitude with which their letter was written. 
Granted, the ongoing debates concerning meal plan options, Saint Mary's, and other such issues, are not of the utmost importance in the international, grand scheme of things. Campus issues are indeed of a lighter nature than European unification or France's radical right wing. 
Yet just because some issues are not mainstays in The Ob­server Viewpoint section, does it mean we here in South Bend are blind to current events. Surely these topics are dis­cussed in many classes and students are exposed to them through other newspapers and media sources. 
Furthermore, many of the debates which occur in View­point are critical te our lives 
here at Notre Dame. While the international world moves along, so too does. the Notre Dame world which we are all a part of. I resent being told to "Wake up!" when no waking is necessary. 
Mr. Partridge and Mr. Mc­Donald must think rather highly of themselves to refer to the students here as "boring people." They further insinuate we know nothing of a world where there is sex before mar­riage or young people exhibit­ing independence. I dare say that we here are not as igno­rant as that. We do not need Mr. Partridge and Mr. McDonald "to bring to light" the world outside of Notre Dame. 
Finally, the arrogant attitude which Mr. Partridge and Mr. McDonald seem to have ac­quired is not a goal of studying abroad. Spending a year over­seas should broaden your hori­zons, not enlarge your ego as well. As a student planning to spend next year in Angers, France, I only hope that I do not grow cynical and conde­scending towards the very Uni­versity which I owe so much to. 
David Ring 
Grace Hall 
April 6, 1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
INCJ?eOIE!J/.e! 
JT90UNOS AI.MO:iT Ut<e AMA/1!3-FOR­
TVMJVI/3! 
\ 
"I accuse the Catholic Church of infecting the world with its funereal morality of being the running sore on the decomposing body of the West." 
Michel Mourre 

Disagree. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

r-----------------------------~-.-----------~--------------------.---_.~..~--~~----~--~----_,,_--------------~------------~~.-----~----· 
Viewpoint
pageS Thuffida~April8, 1993 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thursday's Verse 
Taney was not judicial activist 
"The Wager•• 
The Man of Learning one day came 
Dear Editor: 

By the Fool's small garden. Seeing 
The poor man toiling, he declared,After reading Mr. Acker's ar­''We all know life has no meaning." 
ticle of April 2, 1993: "If Clinton The Fool heard this and timidly,Knows Right From Wrong, Then 
He Won't Choose Left," we felt 
Looking up at the Man of Learning, compelled to address his 
He said, "You'U pardon me dear Sir, characterization of Chief Justice 
But I think that my life has meaning." Taney as a judicial activist. Cer­
Aware of his superior mind tainly Mr. Acker is entitled to 
And his formal education 
his opinion regarding the va­The Learned Man was not upset­
lidity of judicial activism and we He was very understanding. 
do not write to address that 
"I am aman," the Fool did say. 
point. In his article, however, Since the Learned One did not think 
Mr. Acker used the Supreme 
This reason one good enough Court's decision in Dred Scott u. 
Sandford, as an historical ex­
Thus their dialogue proceeded. ample to illustrate "ltlhe danger 
"You are a man, that is a tree; of judicial activism and the 
What, ifany, difference there's?'' correctness of the conservative "extradition" clause whereby construed now as it was un­
This the Learned One said. and the Fool position." Using this example, states agreed to deliver run­derstood at the time if its adop­
Answered, "Thinking! That's the difference!" Mr. away slaves to their home states tion." 
His smile froze when he was replied,
Acker propounded that and owners, thereby Black's Legal Dictionary 
"So whales do too, that we all know." 
"Taney's decision was based not maintaining the right of a defines judicial activism as a The fool diq hesitate, but press'd,on the text of the Constitution or master to his "property." judicial philosophy which From his heart he said, "God made me!" 
any law, but on Taney's After finding what he believed motivates judges to depart from His foolish words were more than ourpersonal vision of social jus­to be Constitutional support for strict adherence to judicial Man of Learning could or would take; tice." He added. "(tloday's judi­slavery, Taney then undertook precedence in favor of progres­
cial activists differ from Taney an in-depth evaluation of laws sive and new social policies 
He put the Fool One in his place. only in their political opinions. in several states regarding the which are not always consistent 
"If a God made you, it was not They fully agree with his vision ''Negro" race. Taney noted that with the restraint expected of 
A favor that he did to you. of the role of judges." "when we look to the condition appellate judges. Judicial ac­
You don't seem to be any better The fact of the matter is that of this race in the several states tivists tend to look beyond the 
For it than if result of mass, 
Taney was not a judicial activist at the time, it is impossible to text and original intent of Con­Energy, and proper weather," but rather an original intent believe that these rights and stitutional language to the un­He said. T'was silent, then the Fool spoke: jurisprude. When drafting the privileges were intended to be derlying values of the docu­"In His image he made me and · Dred Scott opinion, Taney, the extended to them." ment. Not only is Taney's For .me He has a resting place, judge, felt compelled to apply Taney noted that statutes in opinion consistent with his prior 'Cause for that end I was created.''
the original text of the slave holding states drew broad slavery opinions, it is not in any Constitution to the law. As a distinctions between citizens way progressive. This is not 
This rhetoric the Learned Man person, Taney questioned the and the slave race. These Judicial Activism! 
Thought embarrassing. and he answered, morality of slavery. distinctions resulted in This brief review of Taney's 
"What you call natural order Taney's Supreme Court "Negroes" being treated as an Dred Scott opinion 
Is nothing but what you receive, opinion held: A Negro inferior class. demonstrates that Taney ren­
What things appear to be. Perhaps 
descendant of slaves could Next, he examined the laws of dered a decision which he be­You are thinking of an order never become a citizen; several non slave-holding lieved was consistent with the In celestial spheres, and cycles Congress had no power to states. From this he explained: text of the Constitution and the Of Nature. There is more of chance prohibit slavery in the Territo­"We shall lind the same opin­Framers' intent. 
Than there's order in our world, and ries; and a slave taken into a ions and principles equally fixed Mr. Acker's comparison of free state for a temporary so­and equally acted upon." In "today's judicial activists" with 
What kind oforder is that which journ is not necessarily freed as fact, Taney recognized that in Taney is incorrect. In 1856 un­
Lets the stronger devour the weak? Well, a result, since his status de­some states slavery no longer. der an original intent perspec­
I knpw your answer-it's God's plan. pended upon the laws of the existed, not because slaves tive of the Constitution, slavery 
That, I'll tell you, is bad faith, and state he is in. were considered equal, but was legal (hence, the Thirteenth 
You cannot prove me wrong because 
In reaching his decision, because slaves were unable to Amendment). We are shocked No one has e'er seen your deity." 
Taney pointed to specific endure the colder climates. that someone would compare The Fool said to the Sage, "Bad faith! 
clauses of the Constitution to He added some of these "non­judicial activism via the Warren Yet if things are not always what justify his result. For example, slave" states still engaged in the Court, for example, to the likes They seem to be, why not a God,Taney specifically referred to slave trade by transporting of Justice Taney's Constitutional Omnipresent and good. creating the Nonimportation clause slaves to parts of the Union jurisprudence. Had Taney been (Art.!, sec.9) and the Fugitive where their labor was prof­a judicial activist, perhaps, 
Man for a purpose, with a plan?" Slave Clause of the Constitution 
itable. Taney wrote, "[i]f any of history would have been Arguments from both sides,bringing, for support. The Nonimporta­[the Constitutional] provisions different. 
No one can an air~tight present tion Clause reserved the right to are deemed unjust, there is a 
Favoring a Cause or Chaos. import slaves until 1808 to each mode prescribed in the in­Nancy Miller 
Exhausted, hours in arguing spent of the thirteen states. Similarly, strument itself by which it may Courtney Genco 
Finally the Fool did slyly 
Taney explained that the be amended; but while it re­Law School 
Propose to let the course of time Fugitive Slave Clause was an mains unaltered, it must be April 4, 1993 Last and imal word to have, and 
A wager was settled thereby, whose 
Terms were that his being right, with 
Griffin insensitive to survivors of rape 
All that it entailed, would be the prize 
Of the winner. Thus the Fool did 
Dear Editor: testimonials to pain which show No one is defending women End with advantage in the wage. 
us profiles in courage. To who falsely accuse men of such Expectation being product In response to "Rape is a question anything in them crimes. How can we justify ac­Of chance of winning times the gain tragic minefield" (The Observer. would be to put the survivors tions that only encourage the That's expected, betting for April 2)-Father Robert Griffin's unfairly on trial..."). "cry wolf" attitude society Eternal death a lesser choice initial comments on the letters Too bad you didn't end your holds? But to suggest that this 
and personal accounts that article there. Father, because occurs even half as often as 
Seems than betting for eternal life, appeared last week in The what followed did very little to does rape is simply ludicrous. Although uncertain. since where Observer were accurate ("I support those who do speak out How many women do you know 
Infinity is a multiplier think all those pieces are about rape and sexual assault. that would fabricate a story of 
Infinite is the equation's product. sexual assault so they could repeat it over and over to police 
Rafael Tarrag6 
officers, lawyers, juries, judges, 
Hesburgh Library 
friends and family members? 
And you'll forgive me if I'm a 
little short on sympathy for the 
Thursday's Verse man who ended up in prison 
P.O. BoxQ
after beating up his girlfriend. 
No8tre Dame. Indiana, 46556 
Communication is one of the main problems between men we "militants" hope so. through such traumatic

a

and women, and the "No means 
I doubt that the women who ordeal, which description would 
no" attitude that has arisen in 
shared their stories, signing you prefer? 
order to clear things up has had 
only "A Survivor" were using I'd be glad to "help you off
to be revised to "No means no 
the term to imply life-threaten­that minefield," Father, but I
and only yes means yes." That 
ing situations, as Father Griffin think you've already stepped on
ought to enlighten those who 
stated. (Although that may ap­one.
still believe that women who 
ply in many cases) "victim" is a
don't speak forcefully enough, 
word that weakens, and Sue Kehias 
or who aren't sober enough are 
"survivor" is a word that em­Off-Campus
actually giving consent. At least 
powers. If you had lived April 5, 1993 

Accent 
Thursday, April 8, 1993 page 9 
Aplace of our own 
After one year, Dalloway's Coffehouse expanding, seeking larger audience by offering students a getaway 
Student record label releases new CD 
By ANNE DELANEY 
Accent Writer 
There are not many establishments that allow unlimited loitering without purchase in these United States, much less South Bend. Few are the places which are so versatile to act as venue, theater, lecture hall and dance floor. 
Yet coffeehouses are present on most campuses, acting as an integral part of college living. This opportunity is now easily accessible on Saint Mary's cam­pus. Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse offers a wide variety of entertainment and atmosphere as well as good coffee. 
A coffeehouse is an excellent alternative to the more common but ever-exciting weekend activities here at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame according to students. 
"It can be an intellectual haven and is absolutely needed at a university," said Sorin Spohn, a Notre Dame sophomore. 
Originally a clubhouse in which dances and other events took place, the present coffeehouse changed last year. Peggy Abood, Saint Mary's '92, thought that the space had great potential as a coffeehouse. She learned that the space was open and worked with Patrick White, associate dean of faculty, to put her plan in motion. 
The coffeehouse was underwritten with donations from the Parents' Council, residence halls and classes as of January 1992 and now is a self-sufficient operation, according to Georgeanna Rosenbush, director of Saint Mary's Student Activities. 
With donations from last year's senior class, the college and the Parents' Council, Dalloway's was able to invest in new furniture and sound equipment. Students and staff members still have ideas for expansion. 
One of Dalloway's strongest features is that it provides the on-campus draw for Saint Mary's students, according to Saint Mary's freshman Melissa Krauss. 
"It's nice," she said. "It's a small setting. I wish Saint Mary's would do more things like this. There are an ijwful lot of people who leave on weekends because they aren't finding the social life 
J 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Dalloway's has attracted crowds to hear many campus bands who have played at the 
Coffeehouse. 

here. This is a good outlet." 
According to Saint Mary's students, Dalloway's is a social outlet for them, although it is open to Notre Dame students. However, most Notre Dame students admitted that they had never been to Dalloway's, and many said they had never heard of it. 
"I know a lot more people who go this year than last year," said Saint Mary's sophomore Holly Purnhage. "I don't think it's enough to bring everyone from Notre Dame over, but I think they've established regulars." 
Originally, Abood intended for the Dalloway's to be a center where any student could go any time of day. It would be run by students and open 24 hours. However, there are conflicting interests with Marriott, the college's dining service, because of the dining hall's extended hours planned for next year. Also, the Haggar Snack Bar is another center of conflict, according to Mary Beth Wilkinson, Saint Mary's student body president-elect. 
Wilkinson said she would like her proposal for a higher student activities fee, currently in review, to aid in the expansion of Dalloway's. 
"I'd like to have money go to the coffeehouse for interior and exterior improvements and possibly longer hours. Now there are thinly -spread finances for student workers, but there is strong support in this area. Also, I'd like to see the place open more so that students can just get away." 
Why volunteer at Dalloway's? Most students spend their extra time studying or working , both of which are rewarding activities. But a coffeehouse is a new alternative to joining a formal club or organization. People wanted to get this innovative idea started, so volunteers were easy to find. Word-of­mouth was a powerful tool in gathering enthusiastic help, according to Kelly Hartman, a Saint Mary's junior. 
"If you're just hanging out anyway, you may as well work and enjoy yourself at the same time," Hartman said. "I think it's the best thing that's happened to Saint Mary's in a long time, although I'd like to see more first-year students and sophomores involved. Anyone can volunteer at Dalloway's and is always welcome." 
Dalloway's has much to offer-it is a place where new bands can try out their stuff before (or after) hitting the bigger scene. It's where the Sister Chain, the only all-women's band on either campus, got its successful start. Neo-Woolfians can spout their verse, or friends can gather in conversation, high-minded or base, away from hectic dorms and academic responsibility, according to students. 
"It's the only place you congregate with your angst-counterparts and dissect the theories of Sartre and make fun of Spelunker without being ridiculed," said Saint Mary's senior Caroline Clarke. "It's better than sitting in your dorm single listening to Morrissey on low batteries." 
Dalloway's is one of the most versatile, opportunity-laden places around and offers everything from folk dancing to grunge. It is a place refreshingly atypical of other campus establishments, a welcoming medium in which people can get away with their excuses for not studying, and just get away. 
Manager Megan Grogan, a Saint Mary's senior who has undertaken the large responsibility Peggy Abood left behind, is excited about the coffeehouse and its expansion. 
"I'm glad that Saint Mary's has a place of its own, and it's encouraging that there is such overwhelming participation from both campuses," she said. It is not only an achievement that is personally rewarding to those who spearheaded it, but one that can be enjoyed by all, she added. 
Come to Clarissa Dalloway's and see how the coffeehouse tradition has continued, from the 17th century Near East to 20th century South Bend. 
Hours are Fridays from 4-6 PM and Wednesdays and Saturdays from 8 PM ­midnight. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Viewpoint Editor 
Shame on Colin Clary. 
A month until graduation, and he still hasn't written his resume. But then again, he hopes he'll never have to. 
Best known on campus as a guitarist­vocalist for Brian, Colin and Vince, Clary isn't looking for corporate job offers. He's taking an alternate route toward post-graduate happiness, by beginning Sudden Shame. 
The record label will make its second release next week: Brian, Colin and Vince's "Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n' Yeah." 
Clary sees the 15-song CD as his document for the world. 
"This disc will be my resume in an application for a job with myself," he said. 
"Bucket o' Fun n' Stuff n' Yeah" features 15 Brian, Colin and Vince songs, and will likely sell well, based on the sizeable following that the band gained on campus over its two-year existence. 
But for now, Clary's checkbook ledger is a mass of red scribbles. Sudden Shame's budget, which three months ago resembled a shoestring, now looks like something less than spider's silk. 
"The label's deep in debt until we sell some discs," Clary said. Selling the Brian, Colin and Vince disc for $8, Clary is not trying to make quick money. But he thinks he just might be able to get out of the red. 
''I'm not trying to make any 


profit," Clary Sudden Shame said. "All I want on some sort of to do is maybe equal footing break even." with Merge, Ajax, K, and S u d d e n other great Shame's first independent release, "Snowi labels with Springs/Yam titles like Soap," featured "Norplant Clary along with Solution" and Chisel's Ted Leo guitars which and somehow seem Chris Norborg. like a cross The three mixed between up the vocal and Chisel's and instrumental Brian, Colin chores, recorded and Vince's fifteen songs on allow "Snowi 
a four-track, and made the session Sudden Shame's first release. 
The $3 tape is the epitome of an independent label project. Scratchy and washed over with distortion, "Snowi Springs/Yam Soap" doesn't seem like a­polished product. But it's not supposed to. 
"Snowi 
Springs/Yam 
Soap" puts 

Springs/Yam Soap." 
Clary plans to use the same underground system to sell Sudden Shame's that those small companies use. The worldwide network of indie labels and fanzines gives people with a common passion for music a medium through which they may communicate with each other-through music. 
"When I get that box of tapes, or discs, it's amazing," Clary said. "Because soon, your music can be all over the country. There could be a tape or CD in Omaha. We don't have to be there for someone to enjoy our music." 
Clary spends heaps of time delineating Sudden Shame's path. His personal notebook is a mishmash of lyrics, ideas, and financial calculations. He tries to figure out how many discs Sudden Shame will need to sell in order to record another release. He doesn't work in accounting formulas or calculus. He does simple multiplication of dollars and cents. 
"Money's obviously not the motivating factor in starting the label," Clary said. "I'd just like to put out music that I like so that other people can hear it." 

~~---~ ~~------~----------~------~---------------.....--------~----.., 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 8, 1993 
Marlins suffer second loss; Braves nip Cubs again 
MIAMI {AP} -Injury-plagued singles. struck out five and walked two. reliever Todd Worrell strained Pena walked and scored in the Viola pitched four-hit ball for his right forearm in the ninth first inning, singled in the eight innings, struck out four inning Wednesday night as the second, homered off Trevor and walked one. Jeff Russell Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Wilson in the fourth and singled finished for his second save. Florida Marlins 4-2. in the sixth. Pena began the Blue Jays 2, Mariners 0 
Worrell started the ninth, al­year 5 for 5 with three walks SEATTLE-AI Leiter, starting 
lowed a hit, got two strikeouts before lining out in the eighth. in place of the injured Dave and had a 2-2 count on Bret Rheal Cormier allowed five Stewart, pitched seven shutout Barberie when he walked off hits in seven innings, struck out innings. the mound accompanied by the four and walked one. Leiter, a 27 -year-old left-ban­team trainer. Worrell was Barry Bonds homered in the der acquired by Toronto from 
scheduled for an examination seventh, his first home run for the New York Yankees in April on Thursday. the Giants since signing in De· 1989 for Jesse Barfield, struck cember for a record $43.75 out five and walked two in his Mets 6, Rockies 1 million over six years. first major league start since 
NEW YORK-After getting Phillies 6, Astros 3 May 6, 1989. shut out on four singles by HOUSTON-Milt Thompson hit Dwight Gooden in Monday's a three-run double off Xavier Indians 4, Yankees 2 opener, the Rockies went 5 1-3 Hernandez in the lOth inning. CLEVELAND-Albert Belle hit innings without a hit against Luis Gonzalez homered twice John Habyan's first pitch for a Bret Saberhagen until Jim Ta­for the Astros, who got a seven tie-breaking two-run homer in tum's pinch-single. innings of one-hit pitching from the eighth after Carlos Baerga 
With one out in the seventh, Pete Harnisch. He took a no-hit led off the inning with a double fresher team. The second lines Dante Bichette hit the first bid into the seventh before off Jim Abbott. of attack and midfield that
Lax 

homer in Rockies history, a 418-Darren Daulton's leadoff homer. Abbott gave up three runs and played such a huge role against the Hoyas may be a key if the
foot drive past the bullpen in He struck out seven and walked nine hits, struck out three and continued from page 16 Irish hope to knock off Duke onleft field. four. walked one. Eric Plunk, Corrigan. 
their home field. 

Jose DeLeon pitched one-third Cleveland's fourth pitcher, got Coach Corrigan will turn to 
"Notre Dame is coming in

of an inning for the victory. the victory for pitching a score­his starting line of freshman
Braves 5, Cubs 4 very confident, so we're going 
CHICAGO-Ron Gant hit a Mitch Williams pitched a per­less eighth. Derek Lilliquist got Rob Tobin and juniors Billy to have to play a superior game 
fect lOth for his second save. three outs for the save. Ahmuty and Willie Sutton to
two-run homer in the lOth. Jeff and give them everything we've 
control the Blue Devil middies.
Blauser beat out an infield hit 4-2. got. We're very fortunate to be
"We're going to try and take the 
with one out and Gant then hit Athletics 12, Tigers 7 playing at home, but still I see
middies out of the game 
a 2-1 pitch off Bob Scanlan into OAKLAND, Calif.-Terry Rangers 3, Orioles 1 offensively by pressing them on the game as being very evenly 
Steinbach's three-run homer matched," said Coach Pressler. 
the left-field bleachers for a 5-3 BALTIMORE-Doug Strange the defensive end, thus keeping lead. keyed a nine-run sixth inning hit a two-run pinch-homer off them out of the transition Duke will try to press their that three Detroit pitchers size advantage against the
Jay Howell gained the victory Gregg Olson in the 11th inning game," Corrigan explained. 
quicker Irish in hopes of creat­

by retiring one batter in the turned into a walkathon as the after Ivan Rodriguez's leadoff Last week the Irish had ing a lot of fast break chancesninth after the Cubs scored Oakland Athletics beat the _ single off Todd Frohwirth. trouble with Georgetown's 
where their midfielders can

Tigers 12-7. pressure at midfield, but have
twice to tie the score 3-3. The Bob Patterson, who worked find the open attackers. "We're
Cecil Fielder hit a grand slam worked hard in anticipation
Cubs got a run in the 1Oth on out of a jam in the ninth inning, going to try and stay out of a
and drove in five runs for the that Duke will try to employ the 
Sammy Sosa's single. got the. victory. run and gun kind of game. It's 
Tigers, who led 6-3 starting the same aggressive tactics in the
Steve Avery took a five-hit important for us to control the
form of a ten-man ride. Thisbottom of the sixth. Oakland
shutout and a 3-0 lead into the Twins 6, White Sox 1 pace of the game and create
will be important for the Irish
eighth. sent 15 men to the plate that MINNEAPOLIS-Dave Winfield opportunities in a six-on-six sit­
to handle better so that Duke
inning and seven of them uation," Corrigan said. 
Expos 5, Reds 1 drove in four runs, and Jim will be unable to keep the game 
walked. Mike Munoz walked It will be the toughest game of 
CINCINNATI-Moises Alou hit Deshaies gave up four hits in in the Notre Dame half of the
three consecutive batters with the season for the Irish as they
a tie-breaking homer and Ken seven innings for his first field. 
the bases loaded. try to keep their record
Hill gave up just three hits in American League victory. A part of the game that could unblemished and move into the 
seven innings. Red Sox 3, Royals 2 Winfield's three-run double off become important in the latter Top 10. If they can utilize their
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -David stages for the Irish may be the
Alou's two-out homer in the Scott Radinsky capped a four­depth and quickness against
sixth made John Smiley a loser Cone, returning to the Royals run eighth inning and gave him depth factor. With so many Duke's size and not let the Bluefor the first time since 1986, Blue Devils out and not at
in his return to the National six RBis in his first two games Devils turn the game into a
100%, the Irish may play a lotlost to Frank Viola in a pitchers'
League. for the 1\vins. track meet. the Irish may find
of players and try to wear down
duel Wednesday night as the Deshaies allowed only Carlton themselves with two more firsts
the depleted Blue Devils. 

Cardinals 6, Giants 2 Boston Red Sox beat Kansas Fisk's home run and three when they return from
Against Georgetown, Corrigan 
City. Durham: a victory over a Top
ST. LOUIS-Geronimo Pena singles over seven inning. Rick played a lot of players which
Cone gave up two runs and 10 opponent and a Top 10
continued his fast start with a Aguilera pitched 1 1-3 innings worked to the advantage of the 
eight hits in eight innings, ranking of their own.
three-run homer and two for the save. Irish as they were obviously the 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Furnished lour bedroom OAKHILL  1-WY TCKT MAY 17  She just doesn't have the time lor  
NOTICES  r  Earn $2.000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  FOR RENT  CONDO lor summer rental. Call Amy or Doug at614-237-1370 for info.  S. BND to SAN JOSE $200 obo Julie x2762  me... BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL  
TYPING 256-6657  employment available. No  SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  91 GEO Storm GSI, 17Kmi, 5 spd,  
Need someone to do your typing? Call me. $1 per page. Will pick up &  experience necessdry. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584.  bdrms, close to campus, sale neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all utililies. Call Monica  FOR SALE  I A/C, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277­3956.  THIS TIME IS REALLY, ABSOLUTELY, POSITIVELY, YOUR LAST CHANCE TO CALL 289-2683  
deliver. Call Linda: 284-6445 work 277-9120 home.  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­Make money teaching basic  232-2794. 3 BDAM. HOUSE,  FULL  ALL::iiAic CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU  I  TICKETS  AND BE A BOOKSTORE REFEREE. I'M SERIOUS THIS TIME, THIS IS THE LAST CHANCE  
Kim and Meg rock the world!  conversational English abroad.  BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS.  QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE  One way airline ticket from  YOU GET -I'M NOT KIDDING SO  
Japa,n and Taiwan. Make $2,000­ FROM ND. 234-1883.  COST-CUTIING DISCOUNTS:  S. Bend to Seattle, May 17th.  DON'T TAKE THIS LITELY.  
Tickets on sale now for the Farley  $4,000+ per month. Many provide  $200.00 or best offer.  
Hall Players' production of  room & board + other benefits! No  2 BDAM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL  . GOOD STUDENT  Mary 631-5194  BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL  
ILOST & FOUND I previous training or teaching certificate required. For International Employment program, call the  CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277­4155.  . PREFERRED DRIVER . ECONOMY CAR AIABAG  Help!Help!Helpl I need grad tickets! II you have extra call Joe @ 277­ HAPPY HAPPY  
International Employment Group:  ANTI-LOCK BRAKES  4273.  HAPPY  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING.  (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584.  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  BIRTHDAY  
OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  JOHN DAVENPOAT,ChFC  I have a huge family & they all  to the  
VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  219-291-7153.  289-1993  helped pay lor NO. Please! I need  ANCIENT MARINER  
DINAMAAIE "DIDI" GARCIA  -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  extra grad tixll Deanna @2476  on Apri11011111  
X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL  canneries or $4000+/month on  Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, A, A, 2  OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  
THANKS.  fishing boats. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000  baths. Located College Park Condos. Corner of Bulla &  85 Volks Vanagon Van 103,000  PERSONAL  Love, Mr. Grumpy-Face  
LOST: Sunday, April 4  openings. No experience  Ironwood. Must be responsible  miles, most highway, blue w/grey  
at Stepan fields -a pair  necessary. Male or Female. For  tenant $595 per mo or Sale  pinstripe, new battery, good tires.  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  Needed: Part-time sitter in our  
of black sunglasses w/  employment program call 1-206­ &65,900. Send info to PO Box 4075  3500 or best offer 289-2353.  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  home lor 4 mo. boy. MWF  
reflective lenses and ear  545-4155 ext.A5584  South Bend IN 46634.  SeJVices, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  Call273-9512 if very,very  
clips. If found, please call  ND Ski Team T-Shirts  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  interesled.  
Matt at273-2518  3-5 PERSON FURNISHED  Only $1011 Call John at x1160  
Driver needed in May to Hartford  HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM,  ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE ­ Heading lor EUROPE this summer?  
WANTED  CT area, our car, expenses paid, insured. Call Mr. Bishop 1-324-4898  WASH/DAY, BEACH V-BALL, PRIME LOCATION.  MOVING OFF-CAMPUS???? DESK AND DRAWERS lor sale lor  Give yourself, your baby and us a brighter future! We are a loving,  Jet there anytime lor only $169 from East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  
233-9947.  sale lor sale lor sale  secure, Catholic, Caucasian couple.  (when available) with AIAHITCHI  
SUMMER JOBS  GOOD CONDITION and  Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616)  (Reported in Let's Gol & NY  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Interested in extra $$$ -need  IMMEDIATE occupancy ,  inexpensive 271-1443 Steve  629-9037  Times.) AIAHITCH (r)  
PRESTIGE CHILDAENS' CAMPS  student to gather and xerox articles  1 bdrm apt. incl. walk thru bath  212-864-2000.  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  in library. Call Jack at273-2123.  and closet, garage, washer  MAC SE/20 w/lmagewritter II  Are you interested in living in  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  and dryer. 273-9392  $850 OBO Call271-1507  DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  

CALL 1-800-786-8373.  Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon  in LaFortune Student Center  
Child care provider needed in my  SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDAM  81 Kawasaki KZ440  @ 271-1938.  QUALITY COPIES  
to SUBLEASE your house/apt. lor  Granger home. 20-25 hrslwk. now  HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FUAN.  New clutch,brakes,battery.  as low as 3¢ each  
SUMMEA:3-5 people,prel. near  through June 8 & 30-35 hrslwk  GREAT RATES! AVAIL  Runs great. $350 or best.  Need Aide to Tampa Bay  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  

Thursday, April 8, 1993 The Observer page 11 
..... ..... ..... ...... ....... ...... ..... ..... ...... ....
. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . . •. 0
. -,,n• ':\ ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ r~;• fJft -..
' . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . " •. ...
,, . ~--,..~
0 '"" ' ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ...... ...... '• '• flt <::>
"'-=-" '~ , ! ! ! ! ! •, ! ! ! ! ! ! ! • • ··<~~ ~ #I . -.­
0 ~ '•••••............... : .. :...... :............. : : . . .... 
,.,.,, .......__.....­
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL RESULTS NBA STANDINGS MLB STANDINGS 
Monday's Results Ebony Side of the Dome del. Enftamed Slimnifkin, 21-11 Searing Hor Pork SWords del. My Dixie Wrecked II-The Second Coming, 21-10 
Team Beer del. Cement Jordans, 21-10 
If You Reach Us We'll Teach You del. Puking Squirrels IV: Win or Die, 21-7 So-So, What's H:s NIDne & 3 Other Guys del. The Atomic Elbow Drop, 21-15 The Stump Pump del. Jordan, Pippen, Drexler, Minor & Shaq, 21-8 5 Guys Who Have Never Been In Your Kitchen def. Heavy Band The Boys, 21-15 The Mighty Flamm Wads def. Scent of a Bowler, 21-4 Better to Be lucky Than Good del. 4 Aeros & a Guy with a Future, 21-5 
St Buttafucco def. Stranae Crew. 21-7 
Chewbacca def. Erica's Slave, 21-13 
Captain Tony Russo's Castle Point All-
Stars def. Black Seam Dream Team, 21-16 
We're No Colasis But We're Tuf del. We 
Don~ Stand A Ghost of a Chance, 21-2 
Fishtin' Asiatic Tree Shrews del. Hot 
Tamales, 21-17 
Justifiable Homicide def. Stooge-0-Mania, 
21-5 
Dawgs in Heat Ill def. Mr. & Mrs. Ross & 3 
Other Guys, 21-12 
Smoldering Wig def. Miguel, The Get A 
life Guy, 21-8 
The Morelocks del. Jimmy Chitwood & The 
Picketfence, 21-16 
We Win, We Buy def. Too Few Good Men, 
21-10 
Birth Defects def. The Bricklayers, 21-5 
Spread 'em, Penetrate, and Shoot del. 4 
Mexicans Who Hit it Hard, 21-13 
Coney Island Whitefish del. MisTaken, 
Head Bangers del. There Were Once, 21­
1 
Peaches & Urban del. If We Were Any 
Better We'd Still Be Bad, 21-10 
Moose, Kraus, and 3 ... del. Frve Girls Who 
Want.., 21-14 
Seven Bucks in the Hole def. You, Me, 
Him, The Other Guy, 21-11 
Not the Sons of Crack def. Playing loalty, 
21-7 
Vaqueros Urbanos del. Stonelakers, 21 ­
16 
Coming From Behind del. Bush, 21-8 
Baked Pollack Jardiniere del. H R Pufn 
Stuf, 21-16 5 Guys that like to Pick Jennifer def. Team 163,21-15 Fighting Iris V def. Dar In Shorts, Will's Jules, Harry ... , 21-17 Dookieballs del. The Fighting Polish II: Return of the Sausages, 21-7 Baked Potatos del. 5 Trumpets That Really Blow, 21-9 Hannibal the Cannibal del. Doughboy's Revenge, 21-18 Talking Trash is Only 1/2 the Game del. Betty Crocker, Pillsbury Doughboy, 21-15 Tuesday's Results 
Shirts def. Too many intangibles, not enough talent, 21-6. Win or lose, we booze del. SS clean sweep, 21-13. Flaming rods del. Schwartz, 21-13. The power antenna def. The teabagging of scatman carruthers, 21-12. 5 Token white guys del. Vivacious ballhandlers, 21-7. The old and injured del. The dribbling cocks: the second coming, 21-5. The Chris Miller fan club del. Pretrial diversion, 21-16. 
4 Guys and Tim Frank: Oops, he dogged 
us del. Top ten reasons why b-ball should be 
co-ed, 21-19. 
Raff has no friends del. Kevorkian's little 
helpers, 21-8. 
Wasted potential def. The admiral and 4 
footlong subs, 21-1. 
Put up or shut up def. Straps, 21-10. 
Brian, Crater, and the silver spoon del. 3 
Twinies and a pair of ding dongs, 21-17. 
Team 282 def. The 6-D niners, 21-17. 
Fitzy's del. Showtime in Jungle II, 21-7. 
Running Clavin's del. 5 Screamin' Otters, 
21-7. 
l-Train def. 5 guys who should've played 
in...,21-4 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 7:00PM 4/7/93 
ACCf 475 01 1298 ACCf 479 01 1304 ACCf J72 01 1296 AFAM ·J71 01 J652 AFAM J59 01 44JO AFAM 455 01 J886 AMSf 401E 01 4590 AMST 402E 01 4591 AMSf J02E 01 4588 AMSf J87H 01 4705 AMST 40JE 01 4592 AMSf J54H 01 4699 AMSf J86H 01 4704 AMSf 404E 01 459J AMST 368H 01 470J AMSf J67H 01 4702 ANTH J10 01 J492 ANTH J29 02 4444 ANTH 405 01 J992 ANTH 454 01 J560 ANTH J59 01 4447 ANTH 4J1 01 4451 ARCH 598 01 1404 ARCH 54J 01 140J 
Fighting Kernels def. 5 guys who wanna be like Shaq, 21-3. 
Conspiracy def. Not a chance in hell, 21-7. 
11 00 Pounds of disaster del. Knights of 
consumption, 21-5. Waste of ten dollars def. Team Buttafucco, 21-8. Butt's garage def. We score 36.7% of the time,21-16. Busload to Palookaville def. Calbert and 4 quackers. 3 Guys who would rather lose def. We can~ even beat ourselves, 21-5. Bungawungas def. Malik, can you spell transfer, 21-12. 
Todd's team def. Naptime, 21-9. 
The Betrayed Gun def. The beer train, 21­11. Papa John's def. Brotherhood of the hallowed order of the thrusting pagans, 21­
6. 

Cocoa and his 4 puffs del. Sweet lou and the sugar canes, 21-7. Aero-h.eads def. Hallucinogenic toreadors, 21-18. Team 407 def. Dulac: honor, get honor, 21-8. 
Bittersweet def. The 5 Elvises, 21-10. 
The Hawk will never die def. We cook good naked, 21-6. You may beat us but we're drunk def. Chelsea Clinton's boyfriend, 21-17. Ineffectual humor def. Unbelieva'belles by forfeit. 5 Guys too good for Digger def. Clydesdales, 21--19. live and let Dyer def. The emperors nen Bush,21-19. The Grauchos def. Big through the hid ... Room V, 21-15. Jimmy Heads def. Sulleiman the magnificent and the barbary cosairs, 21-13. 
Wednesday's Results 
Malicious Prosecution def. Thundering 
Herd, 21-8 
Momma's Posse II del. Yo Biscuits, 21-19 
Reverse 96ers del. Brian Murphy & 4 
Other Playboys, 21-14 
Bitter def. Blues Brothers, 21-4 
Divi Curiae def. Nuns on the Run, 21-12 
Cool Arrows def. Don't Hate Us Because 
We're Beautiful, 21-11 
Bob McMahon's love Children def. 
Prostrate Valentine and the ... , 21-17 
We May Not Always Win ... def. Pulsating 
Pomegarate Peach Pit, 21-17 
Hootie & the Blowfish def. Conn Country, 
21-19 

Slobbernockas def. Bad Boyz, 21-15 
Tequila White lightning, Ragin' Cajun and the Four Yanks, 21-3 
The Janitor Dissed Us So We... del. The 
Killer Whales, 21-7 
The Essence of life def. Air leprechauns, 
21-12 

Innkeepers, Morris Boys def. 6 Times a 
lady, Forfeit 
Guts def. Dogs, 21-17 
No, Seriously We Were Seeded last Year 
def. The Pimp Clinic, 21-13 
PB&J, Alcoholic, Temper Tantrum 
Pedestal def. Neal & Bab, 21-14 
Ugly Kid Joa del. Ain't Sayin', 21-15 
Just Kill It def. There Can Only Be One & 
We're Not It, 21-17 
4 Basketball Players & An Old Republican 
def. Secretariat, ManOO-War & 3 Other 
Guys Put Out to Stud, 21-17 
Buffalo Heads def. 2 Knights, 1 Crews, A 
Domer &A Ski, 21-19 
The Reproachables def. The Easy Spirits, 
Forfeit 

Allen's Unfrozen Filipino Ombulsmen def. 
Exception Handlers, 21-16 
lovechio's Chick Patrol def. Elvis Has left 
the Building, 21-17 
McCormick's def. 5 Guys...Chelsea 
Clinton, 21-18 
Jellystone Park def. 2 Tacos, 2 Egg rolls & a 
Bottle of Irish Wiskey, 21-8 
Ice Cream Headaches def. Our Woman 
are Strong, 21-6 
Woodypeckas def. Schmegma: 21-6 
Thank God They're Not Triplets def. 911 
lbs. of Dangling Fury, 21-11 x-clinched playoff berth 
ARCH  598  02  0401  
ARCH  54J  02  102J  
ARCH  44J  01  1400  
ARHI  48J  01  4474  
AS  411  02  1489  
BA  J91  OJ  1213  
BA  J91  02  1004  
BA  490  OJ  1507  
BA  490  04  1506  
BA  J91  01  1212  
BIOS  401  01  2145  
CHEO  459  02  1642  
COMM  10J  06  9706  
COMM  103  OJ  970J  
COMM  10J  05  9705  
COMM  10J  02  9702  
COMM  103  04  9704  
COTH  J77  01  J610  
COTH  435  01  4520  
COTH  440  01  4521  
CSE  471  01  J626  
ECON  447  01  4559  
EOUC  404  30  84JO  
EE  498B  01  4914  I  
ENOL  485B  01  4629  
ENOL  495A  01  1223  
ENOL  J12  01  1998  
ENOL  45J  01  J693  
ENOL  J99A  01  J688  

EASTERN CONFERENCE  
Atlantic  Division  
W  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Conf  
x-New York  51  21  .708  7-3  Lost 1  32-4  19·17  33·13  
Boston  42  30  .583  9  8·2  Lost 2  25-11  17-19  28-19  
New Jersey  4 2  3 2  .568  10  4·6  Lost 3  26-11  16-21  26-22  
Orlando  3 5  3 7  .486  16  6-4  Won2  23-14  12-23  22-25  
Miami  32  40  .444  19  4-6  Lost 1  23·13  9-27  18-29  
Philadelphia  2 3  50  .315  28 1/2  3-7  Won 1  12·24  11-26  16-32  
Washington  21  52  .288  30 1/2  3-7  Lost 2  14-22  7-30  13·34  
Central  Division  
x-Chlcago  50  22  .694  8-2  Lost 1  27-10  23·12  32-14  
Cleveland  4 5  2 7  .625  5  5-5  Won2  30·6  15-2t  28-18  
Atlanta  39  34  .534  11  1/2  7-3  Won 1  23-13  16-2t  22-25  
Charlotte  3 7  3 6  .507  13  1/2  3-7  Lost 1  18·t7  t9-19  22-25  
Indiana  3 7  3 6  .507  t3  1/2  6-4  Won2  24·t2  13-24  24-24  
Detroit  3 4  3 7  .479  15  1/2  6-4  Won3  25·t2  9·25  25-20  
Milwaukee  27  45  .375  23  3·7  Wont  17-t9  t 0-26  19-27  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Midwest  Division  
W  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  Conf  
x-Houston  47  25  .653  6-4  Won3  28-9  t9-16  28-15  
x-San  Antonio  44  28  .611  3  4-6  Lost 2  28-9  16-19  27-t7  
x-Utah  42  31  .575  5 1/2  5-5  Lost 1  23-t2  19-t9  24-2t  

Denver  32  41  .438  15  
Minnesota  18  54  .250  29  
Dallas  8  64  .t11  39  
Pacific  Dlvlalon  
X·Phoenix  56  t5  .789  
x-Seattle  49  24  .671  8  
x-Portland  4 3  2 8  .606  1 3  
LA Clippers  36  37  .493  2t  
LA Lakers  34  37  .479  22  
Golden State  3 0  4 2  .417  26  
Sacramento  22  51  .306  35  

Tuesday's Games Indiana 98, New Jersey 85 Orlando t16, Philadelphia 90 Cleveland 1t5, Miami too Detroit 9t, Washington 79 Atlanta 109, New York 104, OT Milwaukee t13, Chicago 109 Houston 114, LA Clippers 101 Golden State 125, San Antonio 111 Dallas 109, Seattle 107 Phoenix 115, LA Lakers t14 Denver 101, Sacramento 100 Portland 110, Utah 95 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlalon 
W L T Pte x-Pittsburgh 54 21 6 114 Washington 40 32 7 87 New Jersey 39 35 6 84 NY Islanders 38 34 6 82 NY Rangers 34 34 11 79 Philadelphia 31 37 11 73 Adame Dlvlelon y-Boston 47 26 7 101 y-Montreal 47 28 6 100 y-Quebec 44 26 1 0 98 y-Buffalo 38 32 1 0 86 Hartford 25 49 5 55 Ottawa 9 67 4 22 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Division 
W L T Pte y-Detrolt 44 28 9 97 y-Chlcago 43 25 11 97 y-Toronto 42 26 t1 95 St. Louis 35 34 t1 81 Minnesota 35 35 10 80 Tampa Bay 22 51 6 50 Smythe Division y-Vancouver 42 28 9 93 y-Calgary 40 29 It 91 y-Los Angeles 37 33 10 84 y-Winnlpeg 37 36 7 81 Edmonton 26 46 8 60 San Jose 1t 68 2 24 
x-clinched division title y-clinched playoff berth 

Tuesday's Games Boston 7, Quebec 1 New York Islanders 3, Washington 2 St. Louis 2, Tampa Bay 2, tie Minnesota 3, Buffalo t Philadelphia 4, Winnipeg 2 Calgary 3, Los Angeles 3, tie San Jose 5, Edmonton 2 
Wednesday's Games 
Late Game Not Included Hartford 6, Ottawa 1 Pittsburgh 4, Montreal 3, OT 
ENOL 415Z 01 ENOL J28 01 ENOL J92B 01 ENOL 470A 01 ENOL 471 01 ENOL 4JSA 01 ENOL J19A 02 FIN 470 01 OE 475 01 OEOS 141L OJ OOVT 486 01 OOVT 478 01 OOVT J42T 02 OSC 495A 01 HIST 458A 01 HIST 4JO 01 HIST J94 01 HIST J26A 01 HIST 474A 01 HIST 47JA 01 HIST J95 01 HIST JOBA 01 liPS J15P 01 LAW 6J1B 01 LAW 679 01 LAW 616 01 LAW 6J1A 01 MARK 476 01 MARK 476 02 
4616 J159 4612 499J 4994 4580 2001 2060 J865 4918 J698 4968 3290 4646 4115 444J 2175 J46J J494 4687 05J4 J646 SOJJ 2257 J656 2251 2256 2291 2292 

1/2 7·3 Won3 25-12 7·29 20-24 3·7 Lost 3 10-27 8-27 13-32 3-7 Wont 5-31 3-33 2-43 
9-1 Won8 31-4 25-1t 34·9 6-4 Lost t 29-7 20-17 32-t3 6·4 Wont 25-tO t8-t8 28·15 5-5 Lost t 23-13 13·24 22-23 1-9 Lost 4 17-t9 17-t8 2t-22 
1/2 5·5 Won 1 t5-20 15·22 21-22 2-8 Lost 3 15-22 7-29 15-30 
Wednesday's Games Philadelphia 98, Washington 90 Orlando 109, Charlotte 96 Indiana 113, Minnesota t 05 
Thursday's Games Detroit at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Boston at New York, 8 p.m. Miami at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. LA Clippers at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. Houston at Utah, 9 p.m. LA Lakers at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Phoenix at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Dallas at Portland, t0:30 p.m. 
GF GA Home Away Dlv 347 256 3t-6·4 23-15-2 23-9-2 31 o 273 20·14-6 20-18·1 11-20-2 289 277 24-13·3 t5-22-3 17-15-t 31 o 273 19-17-2 19-t7-4 20-t4·1 296 287 20-t5·5 14-19-6 12·17-3 298 308 21-t4-5 10-23-6 12-20-3 
3t3 261 27-10-3 20-16·4 23·9·1 320 270 27-1t-2 20-17-4 22-13-0 334 288 21-17-2 23-9-8 t7-13-3 323 278 25-12-2 13-20-8 t8·13-4 267 347 1t-23-5 14-26·0 13-20-3 191 378 9-28-4 0·30-0 4-29-1 
GF GA Home Away Dlv 349 271 23-14-3 21-14·6 20-12-3 263 219 24-11-5 19-14·6 19-11-3 277 226 24-10·6 18-16-5 17-t2-6 267 266 20-13-7 15-21-4 13-13-7 262 277 17-16-7 18-t9-3 12-17-4 229 307 t2-25-3 t 0-26-3 7-23-3 
319 253 24-1t-4 18-17-5 21-9-2 300 270 21-14·5 19·15-6 21-8-4 323 322 21-14-5 16-19-5 15-t4-4 304 307 21-15-3 t6-21-4 17-14-4 23t 3t8 16-19-5 t0-27-3 10-22-1 212 402 8-32-1 3-36-1 8-25·1 
New Jersey 5, New York Rangers 2 
Edmonton at Vancouver (n) 
Thursday's Games Quebec at Boston, 7:40 p.m. Chicago at New York Islanders, 7:40 p.m. Detroit at Tampa Bay, 7:40 p.m. Washington at Philadelphia, 7:40 p.m. Toronto at Winnipeg, 8:40 p.m. San Jose at Los Angeles, 10:40 p.m. 
Friday's Games Pittsburgh at New York Rangers, 7:40 p.m. Vancouver at Calgary, 9:40 p.m. 
ME 469 01 0684 ME 4J5 01 0688 MUS 2200 OJ 2521 MUS 226 01 2524 MUS 2200 01 2522 MUS 221 01 J062 MUS 2200 02 0777 PHIL 261 02 0279 PHIL 2J5 01 2619 PHIL 246 01 2620 PHIL 261 01 2622 PHIL 25J 01 J666 PHIL 265 01 2623 PSY 454 01 0754 PSY 40J 01 4788 PSY 45J 01 4790 PSY 462 01 4791 RLST JJ9 51 9551 RLSf 251 4J 954J ROSP J28 01 3021 ROSP J18 01 J476 soc 486 01 4571 soc JJ2 01 0509 THEO 290 01 0057 THEO 265 01 1147 THEO 25J 01 1150 THEO 246 01 1155 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division 
W L Pet. GB Boston 2 0 1.000 Cleveland .500 New York .500 Toronto .500 Detroit o .000 1/2 Milwaukee 0 .000 1/2 Baltimore 0 2 .000 2 West Dlvlalon 
W L Pet. GB Texas 2 0 1.000 California 0 1.000 1/2 Oakland 0 1.000 1/2 Chicago .500 1 Minnesota .500 Seattle 1 .500 Kansas City o 2 .000 2 Tuesday's Games 
California 3, Milwaukee 1 Chicago 10, Minnesota 5 Seattle 8, Toronto t 
Wednesday's Games 
Late Games Not Included Toronto 2, Seattle 0 Cleveland 4, New York 2 Texas 3, Baltimore 1, 11 Innings Minnesota 6, Chicago 1 Boston 3, Kansas City 2 Detroit at Oakland (n) Milwaukee at California (n) 
Thursday's Games Chicago (Fernandez 8-11) at Minnesota (Mahomes 3-4), 1:15 p.m. Detroit (Doherty 7-4) at Oakland (S.Davls 7-3), 3:t5 p.m. New York (Militello 3-3) at Cleveland (Bielecki 2-4), 7:05 p.m. Boston (Hesketh 8-9) at Kansas City (Gublcza 7-6), 8:35 p.m. 
Friday's Games New York at Chicago, 2:35 p.m. Cleveland at Toronto, 3:35 p.m. 
Boston at Texas, 8:35 p.m. Minnesota at Kansas City, 8:35 p.m. Detroit at California, 10:05 p.m. Baltimore at Seattle, 10:35 p.m. Milwauk':" at Oakland, t0:35 p.m. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division 
w L Pet. GB New York 2 0 t.OOO Philadelphia 2 0 1.000 Pittsburgh 0 t.OOO 1/2 Montreal .500 1 St. Louis .500 Chicago 2 .333 1/2 Florida 2 .333 1/2 Weal Division 
w L Pet. GB Atlanta 2 .667 Los Angeles 2 .667 Cincinnati 1 .500 1/2 San Francisco t .500 1/2 San Dlago 0 .000 1 Colorado 0 2 .000 1/2 
Houston 0 2 .000 1 1/2 Tuesday's Games 
Chicago 1, Atlanta 0 Pittsburgh 9, San Diego 4 Philadelphia 5, Houston 3 
Los Angeles 4, Florida 2 
San Francisco 2, St. Louis 1 Wednesday's Games Late Game Not Included 
New York 6, Colorado 1 Atlanta 5, Chicago 4, 1 0 Innings Cincinnati 5, Montreal 1 Los Angeles 4, Florida 2 St. Louis 6, San Francisco 2 Philadelphia at Houston (n) 
Thursday's Games Montreal (Nabholz 11-t2) at Cincinnati (Belcher t5·t4), 12:35 p.m. San Francisco (Black 1 0-12) at St. Louis (Osborne 11-9), 1:35 p.m. San Diego (Gr.Harris 4-8) at Pittsburgh (Walk 10-6), 3:05 p.m. 
Los Angeles (Candiottl 11-15) at Atlanta (Giavlne 20-8), 7:40 p.m. Friday's Games 
Chicago at Philadelphia, 3:05 p.m. Montreal at Colorado, 5:05 p.m. San Diego at Florida, 7:35 p.m. San Francisco at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. Houston at New York, 7:40 p.m. Los Angeles at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. Cincinnati at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Placed Melldo Perez, pitcher, on the 15·day disabled list, retroactive to April t. Purchased the contract of Neal Heaton, pitcher, from Columbus of the International League. National League 
SAN DIEGO PADRE8-Signed Mike Simms, outfielder, to a minor-league contract. FOOTBALL National Football League 
CLEVELAND BROWNS-Agreed to terms with Mark Carrier, wide receiver, on a three-year contract. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with Chuck Cecil, selety, on a three-year contract. Signed Jay Taylor, defensive back, and traded Taylor to the Kansas City Chiefs for an undisclosed draft pick In 1993. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Re-slgned Steve Bono, quarterback, to a three-year contract. Signed Tim McDonald, safety, to a five-year 
contract. Canadian Football League BRITISH COLUMBIA LION8-Signed Robert Mimbs, running back. 
SACRAMENTO GOLD MINER8-Signed Mike Kiselak, guard; Darrell Colbert, wide receiver; and Jason Wallace, cornerback. 
,...--......-----------------------------------------~-­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 8, 1993 

Baseball 

continued from page 16 
response wasn't quite loud enough as designated hitter Alfredo Suarez drove in Boil­ermaker catcher Scott Barrett for the only Purdue run of the game. 
Purdue threatened in the 
third with runners on first and 
second and no outs, but Price 
retired the side on a strikeout, a pick-ofT and a fielder's choice. 
Price pitched out of a few pickles with the help of his de­fense. 
"I picked off runners at first and defense made a lot of good plays behind me," said Price. "They (the defense) were a big pick me up." 
Irish senior Ed Hartwell re­bounded from a rough night at the plate on Tuesday with a 2 for 5 performance including a double last night. Danapilis 
Women•s track at Sea Ray Relays 
By MIKE NORBUT 

Sports Writer The Notre Dame women's 
track team will be travelling to Knoxville, Tn., Thursday thru Saturday for the 27th annual Sea 


Ray  Relays,  a,  ~,~,~  
prestigious meet  Stefanie  
f e a t u r i n g  Jensen  

competition from across the country, in­cluding Marquette, Alabama A&M, and Ashland University. 
The Irish will be hoping to continue their success outdoors this weekend, although they will also be hoping to find themselves in better weather conditions than they have ex­perienced thus far this season. Split squads at Eastern Ken­tucky and North Carolina State both had to face horrible hail and rain two weeks ago, lead­

Freshman outfielder Ryan Topham had the game-winning triple in the Irish's 2-1 win over Purdue yesterday. 
went 2 for 2 while Topham and junior Matt Haas notched one hit in the game. 
Purdue is ranked second in the Big Ten with a 5-3 confer­ence record behind an 8-0 Minnesota squad. 
The Irish have a day of rest before a big weekend of base­ball including a four-game series against Midwestern Col­legiate Conference newcomer LaSalle (3-13 heading into this 
The Observer/Macy Huekel 
~ ~ 
~~ 


PANCAKE Senio~~
Discount

HOUSE 15% OFF 
Mon. thru Fri.

t~ R8tluruud 
APRIL SPECIAL 
Our Specialty-Oven Baked APPLE PANCAKES Buy 1, Get 1 1/2 OFF 
Save '2.48. Mon.-Fri. Only. No Coupon Needed 
LUNCH SPECIA 

FREE SOUP WITH ANY SANDWICH ORDER 
Mon.-Fri. Only After II a.m. Please No Coupon Needed 

,,)'n~'Hifj uR8 ,,, • 
Mon.-Fri. Only ALL STEAK DINNERS 
SAVE $1 q9ER9Pf!PLEASE 
NO COUPON NEEDED 
Serving Mlchlana For 27 Years 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland 
Open 7 Days A Week (Across From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 At6:30 A.M. 
ing to many cancellations of late events. Nevertheless, the teams were excited about com­peting in their first outdoor meet and competed well against powerful running schools like Miami (OH), Georgetown, and Providence. 
"We had a lot of kids compete well against both Eastern Kentucky and North Carolina," said coach Joe Piane. 
The action will begin today for the Irish, as several of the distance events will be run, in­cluding the 3000, 5000, and 10,000 meter runs. The Irish will look to Sarah Riley, Stefanie Jensen, and Emily Husted for leadership. Husted took second in the 1500 meter run at Eastern Kentucky two weeks ago, while Riley and Jensen qualified for the NCAA Outdoor Championships, to be held in New Orleans, La., June 2-5, in 
week) and a double header against Cleveland State who the Irish beat in two meetings last year. 
With six games in four days, everyone will likely get a chance to play except Greg Layson who is out indefinitely with an injury to his right foot. A different injury to the same foot kept him out most of last season. Also out temporarily is Irish pitcher Craig Allen who has his appendix removed over the 5000 meter run while com­peting at the Raleigh Relays. 
Freshman Erica Peterson will lead Notre Dame in the sprint­ing categories. Peterson won both the 400 meters and the 400 meter hurdles at Eastern Kentucky March 27, and was the sole Irish representative at the Texas Relays last weekend. Karen Harris and Susan Maher will compete in the field events. Harris took second in the shot­put at the Raleigh Relays, while Maher won the high jump at Eastern Kentucky. 
The meet will conclude on Saturday with several sched­uled relays, events in which the Irish are hoping to be success­ful. Notre Dame's main con­centration this weekend will rest in competing well as a team, along with trying to qual­ify individuals for the NCAA Championships in June. 
the weekend. 

Almost the entire rotation will see time on the mound over the Easter weekend. 
The schedule for the LaSalle games are as follows: Friday's game against starts at 7 p.m., Saturday's doubleheader starts at 5 p.m. and Sunday's game starts at 1 p.m. while Monday's doubleheader against Cleveland State starts at 1 p.m. with all games at Covaleski Stadium. 
Webber bouncing back 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-Shed no tears for Chris Webber. He's going to be just fine. Who says so? Chris Webber. 
"I'm still a little bit depressed, but I'm OK," Webber said Wednesday at the John R. Wooden Award ceremony. "It's still kind of hard to swallow. It's just .real hard. I sort of want to crawl under a rock. (But) Chris Webber, he can deal with it." 
Webber attended the ceremony at the Los Angeles Athletic Club less than 48 hours after committing one of the biggest mistakes in NCAA tournament history. His infamous timeout call with 11 sec­onds left Monday night cost Michigan a chance at the title. 
Although obviously still feeling the effects of his gaffe, he was pleasant and gracious as he patiently answered questions from reporters. 
In addition, the bald, clean-shaven All-American showed he hasn't lost his sense of humor. 
"I think I'll grow long hair and a beard and move out to the California desert and wait for the basketball season to begin," he said with a smile. 
SYRACUSE ABROAD 
~ 

APPLICATIONS ARE STILL BEING ACCEPTED FOR... 
AFRICA • AUSTRALIA • CZECH REPUBLIC • ENGLAND • FRANCE • GERMANY • HUNGARY • ISRAEL • ITALY • POLAND • SPAIN 
• 
Courses Taught in English and Host Country Language 

• 
SUCredit 


• 
Field Trips/Traveling Seminars 

• 
Internships 


• 
Study For A Semester, A Year, Or A Summer 


• Home Or Apartment Placements FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid A venue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 
Thursday, April 8, 1993 The Observer page 13 
questnan club shines at Culver show 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's equestrian team did well over the weekend, qualifying several riders for regional competition. 
Eric Ivanovich, Megan Turpin, Katie Bradley, Julie Barry and Michelle Meadows all placed well enough at the Culver Hunt Seat Show to qual­ify for regionals. 
Ivanovich placed fifth and sixth in the novice flat and sec­ond and third in the novice fences on Saturday and Sun­day, respectively. Turpin placed second and fourth in the intermediate flat, second in the novice fences, and third in the intermediate fences. 
Also qualifying were Bradley, who scored second in the in­termediate flat and novices fences, and Meadows, who placed first and second in the beginning walk-trot. 
Also in the Culver meet, Les­ley Kokoska placed third and sixth in the intermediate flat and frrst and second in the in­termediate fences. Tara Hooper placed fourth and fifth in the beginning walk-trot-canter and Becky Rombalski placed first and fifth in the advanced walk­trot-canter, while Meaghan McCue placed frrst and third in the open flat and third and fourth in the open fences. 
The Regionals will be held 
this weekend. 

UNIVERSITY 
Rt:SUMt: 
SERVICE 

• RESUMES •TEci-1NicAl 
•CREATiVE WRiTiNq 
27 7/1 700 
locATEd off-cAMpus by UP MAll 
iN UNiVERSiTy GARdE~~ 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
For almost the last month, the 21st-ranked Notre Dame women's t team has 
bee safely tuck away in th friendly '-'V''""'"~ of the Tennis Pavilion. While indoors, Holyn Lord the Irish have racked up seven consecutive victories and a wealth of confidence. 
That confidence will come in handy this weekend as they head south to take on two solid teams from the Athletic Coast Conference. On Friday, the Irish take on North Carolina and on Saturday they face 25th­ranked Wake Forest. 
"I don't see playing away as all that different from playing at home," said junior Lisa Tholen. "The only time it would be dif­ferent is if we have a large crowd at our games, which doesn't happen all that often. If anything, our wins at home have given us the sense that we know we can win away from home as well." 
Playing on the road will not be the only difference for the Irish this weekend. They will also be hitting the outdoor hardcourts for the first time since their loss at unranked South Florida. 
"We have been able to get 
outside when the weather has 
been nice," said junior Christy 
Faustmann. "That will be key 
for us. We play indoors so 
much and it's a whole new 
ballgame outside. You have to 
be more patient." 
"Outside you need to move a 
lot more," said Tholen. "Also, 
the matches will probably be 
longer than we're used to in­
doors." 
With the roadtrip and the 
playing conditions already 
against them, the Irish seem to 
be at a disadvantage already. 
Throw in the Tarheels and 
Demon Deacons as formidable 
opponents and the challenging 
weekend looks even tougher. 
North Carolina comes into its 
match with the Irish unranked, 
The Notre Dame community 
~~\C01J1e~ 
these members of our family into the Catholic Church 


1(jm yoU 
'Diana Ware£ 
will receive the sacraments of Baptism, Confumation, and Eucharist 


'Dave 'Dettore r.BeckJ; 'l([oeger Sfr.irCey Luttio Xf_nara Picl(pzs 1?J;n '1\..atton Jofr.n 1\._icfr.arcf.son Stacy Seggerman Jennifer S[avit Lissa o/anr.Be66er 'Tony Yang Stefanie Zerk:Je 
will be received into Full Communion in the Catholic Church 
a[{ are most weCcome to atteru{ 
The Easter Vigil 

Saturday, AprillO 9:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Women's tennis travels to down tobacco road 
but has claimed several early­season victories over teams in the top-25, including 19th­ranked Alabama and South Carolina, currently tied at no. 25. 
The Carolina squad also has top-10 representatives in the Intercollegiate Tennis Associa­tion's singles and doubles rankings. In singles, Tarheel Cindy Gurney is ranked 8th in the latest ITA release, while she pairs up with teammate Alisha Portney to form the third­ranked doubles squad. 
Wake Forest, who has been in and out of the ITA ratings all season, is currently tied at no. 25, and holds wins over then­22nd ranked Kentucky, as well as South Carolina. In singles, 27th ranked Terry Ann Zawacki comes off an upset of Duke's third-ranked Julie Exum. The Deacons also claim the 11th­ranked doubles team in Liz Barker and Evans. 
Freshman Wendy Crabtree leads the Irish in the ITA rankings at no. 67. while Faustmann is tied at no. 89. In doubles. Crabtree and Tholen make their debut in the rank­ings at no. 45. 
Though the difference be­tween the Irish, Tarheel, and Deacon numbers may seem great, Tholen and Crabtree have been looking forward to their doubles matches as a chance to prove themselves. 
"When we were playing some 
of the higher-ranked teams 
earlier this season, Wendy and I 
weren't playing together yet," 
said Tholen. "We've been 
playing well together lately and 
this is our chance to pull off a 
couple upsets. We've been 
looking forward to the matches 
for a couple weeks. If we just 
go out and play doubles the way 
we know how, we'll do fine." 

Irish wins over UNC and 
Wake Forest would go a long 
way in increasing the possibility 
of an at-large bid to May's last year in winning their fourth-straight conference
Seniors 

championship, and they will likely do the same this weekend. 
continued from page 16 . 
Most of the seniors will take

circuit) and Brakus was the weekend off, as younger
ranked one or two in Canada, 
players will get a chance to
that's higher than our team in compete and become a confer­
terms of their junior 
ence champion.
credentials. But our guys out­toughed them." 
Look for returning champions Tad Eckert, Horst Dziura, AllanNext up for the Irish will be Lopez, and Wilson to see action,
the Midwestern Collegiate as well as newcomers Eoin
Conference Championships here Beirne, Brian Harris, John Jay
at Notre Dame starting on 
O'Brien, and Jason Pun. 
Friday. 
The Irish won all nine flights 
Conserve energy: turn off your lights 

~~GrtON Coo. ~~ Cal/255-7777 ~J> 
Do you have the summer time s!Jhool blues?? Come live at Remington Court during· summer school, and relax in luxury between classes. We have junior one bedrooms that will give the privacy ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located on Main Street between McKinley and Edison 

NCAA tournament. both currently undefeated in 
"If we win these." said the Midwest region, and their Tholen, "it will take some of the April 17 matchup may decide pressure off the match with the region's automatic NCAA Indiana." bid. 
The Irish and Hoosiers are 

.---------~------~------------------------------------~--------~-----------------------------­
page 14 The Observer 
Irish softball challenges DePaul 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 

While most Notre Dame stu­dents will pack their bags for Easter weekend, the Notre Dame softball will travel to Chicago and face perennial Midwestern power DePaul in a Saturday doubleheader. 
~ 
N o t r e 

Dame has a Ronnie Alvarez 16-9 record, including five straight wins. On Tuesday, the Irish swept a doubleheader from Michigan State 5-1 and 3­0. "One of our big goals was to come out strong against the Big 10," said coach Liz Miller. "Dominating Michigan State was very important for us. I was pleased with our perfor­mance." In Tuesday's first game, junior Carrie Miller fought off a hamstring injury to pitch four innings and record her fourth win. She yielded only one un­earned run on five hits while striking out one. Senior co-cap­tain Staci Alford finished the game for her second save. "Our bats were a factor in the game," commented Coach Miller. "It was nice to see be­cause we needed it." The Irish banged out 11 hits with sophomore Andrea Keys leading the way. Keys had two singles, a double, and one RBI. Other key hitters included sophomore Sara Hayes and junior Christy Connoyer. Hayes had a single and a double along with two RBI's, while Connoyer had a single and a double. 
Hough 
continued from page 16 

before about half of his current teammates were born. But all those years of experience didn't help chase away butterflies before taking the mound for the season's opener. 
In fact, Hough displayed the animated mirth of a Little Lea­guer throughout his six innings of work. After releasing a hanging knuckler. he'd rou­tinely snap his head back and raise his index finger, following the ball's flight. His tired old face seemed to plead to his fielders, and to the gods, to keep the ball within the spa­cious confines of Joe Robbie Stadium. 
It didn't take long for Hough to christen the brim of his new teal hat with perspiration. And after being away from the "Senior Circuit" for so many years, Hough anxiously wel­comed the challenge of welding a bat. He'll need to brush up on his technique, though; he went 0-for-2 with a strikeout against his counterpart Orel Hershiser. 
But the 42,233 fans in Mi­ami-most of whom appeared considerably older than he-certainly appreciated Hough's every effort. The careful spectator also appreciated the Hough's lively personality in the dugout: playfully instructing young infielder Brett Barberie on his unique pitch, facetiously begging for another inning from his manager (and his peer in' age) Renee Lacheman, and cautiously ascending the 

lAKf lHf KHS. CAll ACAB. lAKf ASTANO. 

"We were just being aggres­sive at the plate," said Keys. "We were intense the whole game." 
In Tuesday's second game, freshman Kara Brandenburg pitched a complete game shutout. She gave up only two hits while striking out four. She improved her record to 3-1 on the year. 
"Kara pitched a great game," exclaimed Coach Miller. "She had great pitch selection. She's gained confidence the past couple of games because of the tough situations she has had to endure." 
At the plate, the Irish scat­tered nine hits throughout their lineup. Seniors Lisa Miller and co-captain Ronnie Alvarez recorded RBI singles while ju­nior Liz Goetz walked with the bases loaded for the third run. 
"The key to our winning streak was the Indiana State game, because it brought back our confidence at the plate," realized Miller. "We need to continue to stay loose at the plate and keep our confidence high." 
Saturday's doubleheader against DePaul will be a re­match of the championship game of the Subway Classic last weekend, which the Irish won 1-0. The Blue Demons enter the contests with a 9-14 record, and are led by pitcher Suzanne Wiegner. Wiegner defeated the Irish 2-1 last Saturday in the first game of the Subway clas­sic. DePaul also boasts a tal­ented infielder in Missy Nowak. 
"DePaul has strong pitching and great hitting," explained coach Miller. "These will be tough games for us." 
"We need to let DePaul know 
clubhouse ramp to puff on a ci­garette. 
A few of the team's whipper­snappers also managed to quickly win the hearts of fans. A boy named Scott Pose sent a chill down their aging spines, racing to the 432 sign in center field to flag down an Offerman drive. He knocked in two runs, too. 
Left fielder Jeff Conine stole the show, going 4-for-4 and scoring two of the Marlins six runs. Pose and Conine-hus­tling, overachieving rookies-are fan-favorites in the making. 
But as the team's top go-to man, their stopper, their MVP, one man stands alone this sea­son. He's Bryan Harvey, a vet­eran reliever and rehab project on whom the Marlins will rely to preserve late-inning leads. 
But the Marlins will look to Hough to preserve something more frequently at issue-their sanity. Through the years, we're better than them," added Keys. "We need to be strong and play tough." 
For the Irish, their injury list remains loaded. Freshman pitcher Terri Kobata has a strained calf muscle, but her status remains uncertain. Ko­bata will find out Friday if she can play. 
Kobata earned MCC Player of the Week honors following her performance against Indiana and Western Michigan last week. She leads the conference in victories (5-2). ERA (.077) and strikeouts (54 for 8.34 a game). 
"Her award is a team honor," said coach Miller. "The key is getting her healthy and keeping her healthy. If she is strong enough physically, she can do the job." 
If Kobata can't go, the Irish will look for Brandenburg and Alford to handle the pitching duties. Notre Dame's other pitcher Carrie Miller, will test her strained hamstring tomor­row to determine her availabil­ity. 
At the plate, Keys, Hayes, and junior Stephanie Pinter will provide the scoring punch. Hayes is tied for first in the MCC in triples (2), fourth in home runs (2) and ninth in RBI's (14). 
"If we're patient at the plate, lay off the pitcher's rise, and play well defensively, we'll do fine," .commented Keys. 
"We need to play our best," concluded coach Miller. 
Following DePaul, the Irish will play three doubleheader games at home next week against Valparaiso, LaSalle, and Butler. 
Hough has gained a wisdom that looks beyond wins and losses, contract disputes and media onslaught. 
Floridians enjoyed their day basking in the glory of a 6-3 Opening Day win. They found new heroes, and an old goat (Dodgers' right fielder Dar-ryl Strawberry). But to endure the long and brutal season(s) ahead, they'll have to find the same sense of humor possessed by their old hero, Charlie Hough. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 2:15, 5:00. 7:30 THE SANDLOT (PG13) 1 :30, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 POINT OF No RETURN (R) 
w·oo 

INDECENT PROPOSAL IR) 2:00, 4:45, 7:15, 9:4~ 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 

April 8, 1993 
-~·· 


The Observer/Jake Peters Freshman Kara Brandenburg hurled a complete game shutout in Tuesday's doubleheader sweep of Michigan State. 

7 Day Delivery 

Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square (219)2 7 7 .. 12910~o.C;~ ~ 
~~
51400 31 North 
~~ o.~~

South Bend, IN 46637 
Mer.tion This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

(/) .
-:__ a111e 

Cat..erinQ 
GRADUATION SHIFT SIGN UPS 
St..ar-t..inQ 
April14 8am-Spm 
Cat..er-inQ Emplo~lment.. Office Lo\\1er· level-South DininQ Hall 
' 
fii

• Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 

------, 
.'.'.~ 
Today 

6 City in S France 24 "-toWatch 44 Hopper and 54 Superlative 7 Celtic Neptune Over Me," Turner suffix Gershwin song 47 Japanese 55 Butler at Tara 
aThick dressing 26 Campus mil. Buddhist sect 57 Peruse9 Beethoven's group 49 Ship's 58 Carlton of 
"-Sonata" 
10Thing 27 Disparage companionway baseball sometimes 50 Place for 59 Straight: Comb. 
29 Hurok was one kidding? formgiven or caught 30Epochs 51-cropper 60 Angels' delights 11 Black: Comb. 32 CD, for one (failed) 63-shoestring
form 35 Mayflies, e.g . 12 LuPone role 38 So-so grades 13 Transplant 37 Cachar and 
Get answers to any three clues 
11 John, to Jock bancha 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 
22 Lucky Roman 39 In a phlegmatic 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

number way 

..
thursday, aprill5 8pm-12am The Huddle 
featuring songs by your favorite campus bands 
RELEASE PARTY 
mJDENI' UNIONlOAD 

Thursday, April 8, 1993 
SPELUNKER 
HANK BEGINS To R£6RET MISSINln ruE RE.VI£iAl SESSION FOR HIS STflllSIIC.S TEST 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I \.\P-IE IT 
'tM~.~'-~ 1r·s 
Till'S 'tl\N\)'1. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28Adulate 49Micmac's 31 Fetid 
cousin 
1 Judge 
52 --majeste
33 Soprano

5 Serene 
53 Call
Trentini

9-Rouge, 56 Catherine the 
34 "Sweeney

Cambodian Great, for one
--": T. S. Eliot

guerrilla 58 "The Pearl 
38 City on the site 

14 Precipice part -,"Bizet
of ancient 

opera
15 Olive genus 
Carthage 

61 Intended
11 Kent portrayer 
40 Designer of the 62 Falstaff, for one 
n Lilly Dacha's J.F.K. Library 
64 Utopian
metier 
41 Conductor Erno 15 Part of M.I.T. 19 Immigrant's 
66 Cantina snack 
island 
42 Cockscomb &TOn deck 
20 Marine fish 43-Bud, 66 A classic race at 
21 Produce an egg Dickens heroine Epsom Downs 
23 One-billionth: 45 Its field once 
69 Vietnamese Comb. form holidays
had a 24 Tizzy Strawberry 25 Natalie's 46 Cheat DOWN singing father 46 This opens 
1 Some F.O.B.'s 
26 0-U connection sesame 
2 Ernie K.'s widow 3 Sweetbrier
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Soprano to be toasted? 5 Organ part 
~ 1993 Waner5on10iSinbui!KI by Unwersal Press Syndicate 
~OV KNOW WI-IAT 
r 1-{t>-\t.? r 
1\1\lt_ W\\t.N l't-\ 


page 15 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


Che.f' Morrel\i
BILL WATIERSON 
I A.Lc:P 1-\f>..IE \r W\.\ffi ?EC>?\.E. LOOK "-.1 M£. 
A.I.L ~\l~-E'lt.l>. 

1111\I M\J'ST \41\PPEN 
A. LOT. 
Unt\rlOWVl 

Chicken serial killers 
: . 


r""-----------------------~------------~-----~ ~ 
.. ) . 
page 16 
Baseball edges Purdue, faces six-game weekend 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
It was a battle of pitchers and Purdue's Todd Jensen was the first to weaken. He also weakened the most as the Notre Dame baseball team (11-8) put two runs on the board in the fifth on a Ryan Topham triple for a 2-1 
a 
victory over the Boilermakers (21-6) today in West Lafayette, In. The fifth inning was the only inning in ,, · which either team scored. Irish junior 
Tom Price pitched the complete game 
allowing only one run on three hits with 
W 
seven strikeouts while Jensen also went 
the distance giving up two runs and five 
hits while striking out 10. 
Tom Price Using his fastball and slider at any speed, any count and any location, Price was able to work around hitters and force them to chase pitches outside the strike zone. 
Price (3-1, 4.20) has struck out 19 and walked only four in his last 30 innings on the mound. The left­bander who has opponents hitting .194 against him baffled Jermaine Allensworth, Big Ten player of the week last week, who went 0 for 4 in the game with two strikeouts. 
"Last year, I pitched against Purdue both times and the first time he (Allensworth) was up he hit a home run against me," said Price. "I had a good idea of how I was going to pitch him away and make him go after them." 
Notre Dame started out the fifth with freshman Robbie Kent taking a free pass to first which senior Eric Danapilis followed with a single to set up the Topham hit. Topham, a freshman, smashed a two-out triple. to deep right center field to drive in the two runs. 
"Last night and earlier in the game. I was pulling up on the ball a bit. I worked on keeping myself in there," said Topham a high school outfielder who has recently been starting at first base after learning the position in spring . "I think it was more of an adjustment early in the spring. I feel comfortable out there now." 
Purdue answered in the bottom of the inning, but the 
see Baseball/page 12 
.. 
SOFTBALL AT DePAUL Carrie Miller and the Irish softball team travels to Chicago for a rematch. 
see page 14 

Sports 
Thursday, April 8, 1993 

Unbeaten Lacrosse faces No. 9 Duke 

By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
This has been a year of firsts for the 12th-ranked Notre Dame lacrosse team (8-0). Earlier this year, the Irish defeated their first top 15 opponent and have now garnered their highest ranking ever at #12. 
The ObserverSean Farnan Senior midfielder Chip Lonsdale picks up a ground ball in the Irish's win over Hobart. Lonsdale's play at the faceoff position will be pivotal against the ninth-ranked Blue Devils on Friday night. 
Irish seniors shine in final home match 
Brakus and Adam Wager, 8-3, and senior Mark Schmidt and junior Todd Wilson stormed from behind to take Grady Burnett and John Costanzo, 8­
6. Michigan's Jeff Curtis and Greg Artz edged Allan Lopez and Chris Wojtalik 8-5 in three-doubles, as Wojtalik pulled a stomach muscle early in the match. The senior will take the next three matches off to recover. 
In addition to Forsyth's thrilling victory, Coleman and Schmidt notched impressive wins, as Coleman beat Costanzo 6-0, 4-6, 6-2, and Schmidt aced Wager, 6-3, 6-2. 
"Our seniors really stepped up again," noted Bayliss, "Schmidt was absolutely unflappable. He drove Wager crazy, and there's not many guys Wager can't hit off the court." 
"With all our friends coming out for our last match," said Schmidt, ''I'm just glad it ended up alright." 
Senior Ron Rosas disposed of Burnett, 6-4, 6-2, at four-singles, and Wilson capped an impressive comeback by beating Peter Pusztai 2­6, 6-2, 6-2. Freshman Mike Sprouse fell to Jeff Prestice, 6-3, 6-3 at six­singles. 
"Wilson showed a lot of poise today," remarked Bayliss, "This was a tough match because they're a talented team, and they can beat us. 
"They have three top-20 players from the juniors (Junior tennis 
see SENIORS/page 1 0 


By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
"Will wouldn't have won this match two years ago." 
True, maybe two years ago senior Will Forsyth would not have had the talent and the confidence to outlast Michigan's 74th-ranked Dan Brakus the way he did yesterday, but then again Forsyth was not the 15th­ranked player in the nation two years ago. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss made this comment after Forsyth, in the last home match of his career, fought off a stubborn Brakus tot 
1. capture a 6-4, 2-6, Will Forsyth 7-5 victory and provide the highlight of the Irish's 6­1 win. 
"He's made a big jump," said Bayliss of Forsyth, "He's gone from a No. 4 player whose pretty good to one of the top players in the country." 
Like Forsyth, the four other Irish seniors have also made great strides during their four year careers, and it showed in the ease in which they
.. 
disposed of one of the Midwest's best teams. 
The Irish started the rout off by capturing the doubles point, as Forsyth and Coleman shrugged off 
The Irish now face an incredible opportunity that could jettison their program to the top of the college lacrosse world. They have the chance to become the first Irish team to ever beat a Top 1 0 foe when they faceoff Friday night against the #9 Duke Blue Devils (6­
3) in Durham, N.C. So it's #9 versus #12 as the Irish try to crack the Top 
10. But to hear Duke coach Mike Pressler talk you wouldn't believe the Blue Devils are the higher ranked 'team. "We haven't been at full strength all year, and right now we're very hobbled with 13 guys out, in­: eluding two who just went under the knife this week." I One of those who is lost to Duke for the season is co­captain defenseman Joe Proud. Fortunately for the Irish, Proud is the best defender the Blue Devils have, and his size will be sorely missed by them as they try to stop a red hot Irish offense. 
Once again, the Irish will turn to junior attackers 
Randy Colley and Robbie Snyder, along with freshman 
Kevin Mahoney, to try and penetrate a very large Blue 
Devil defense. "Duke is a very big, physical team that 
tries to physically intimidate you. But I think our guys 
are tough enough mentally to ignore the physical part 
and concentrate on what is at hand," said Irish coach 
Kevin Corrigan. 
Sophomore goalie Ryan Jewell will lead the Irish 
defensive effort, relying on the prowess of junior 
Garrett Reilly and sophomores Mike Iorio and Billy 
Gallagher to keep the Blue Devil offense silent. 
They will be facing a powerful Duke offense led by 
attackers Scott Harrison and Seth McCulloch, who 
share the lead for points for the Blue Devils. "Their 
attackers are the beneficiaries of all the offense that 
their middies create for them," noted Corrigan. 
But perhaps the key for the Irish will be to control the midfield aspect of the game. The Blue Devils possess a very talented group of middies led by Matt Oglesby, Ross Moscatelli, and Jim Mannino. This group is not only strong on the defensive side, but are capable of putting the ball in the net and feeding Blue Devil attackers. 
"Their middies look to make things happen in the settled game, but who also like to get out on the break and create a lot of transition opportunities," said 
see LAX/page 1 0 

-~-~G_L____ ~ Chalk Talk . 
Hough a timeless leader for youthful Marlins squad 
The Florida Marlins opened the 1993 Major League Baseball season with all the pomp and pageantry of a Disney Production Monday afternoon. 
Then, the new club entertained fans with all the things which make the game so genuine and great-the history, the ritual, the young, the ageless, the hopes, the possibilities. 
Charlie Hough sent a knuckler. fluttering toward Los Angeles Dodgers' lead-off batter Jose Offerman to start the festivities. Not exactly the portrait o a modern-day athlete, "Old Knucksie" is greying on top, widening in the middle and thinning in the legs. At age 45, Hough is a dinosaur of the game. 
But in Florida-the land of Spring Training, rooki~ leagues, and the defunct "old-timers" league, the land of the mythical fountain of youth and the land where America's social security checks go to be spent-Hough's story as rejuvenated "ace" of a young expansion team seems even more appropriately a metaphor for the game than "The Field of Dreams." 
Hough began his pro career in 1966, 
see HOUGH/page 1 0 

DG!J~O[ID~SPORTS--------------­
WOMEN'S TENNIS Freshman Wendy Crabtree leads the Irish against UNC and Wake Forest. 
see page 13 

WOMEN'S TRACK Erica Peterson will handle the sprinting events for the Irish at the Sea Ray Relays. 
see page 12 








