~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Juror dismissed in Denny case 
Panel told to use 'common sense' in new trial 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A jury was ordered to start deliberations over in the Reginald Denny beating case after the judge on Monday dis­missed a juror the panel's fore­woman said "doesn't use com­mon sense." 
Superior Court Judge John Ouderkirk removed a black woman in her 60s who had said in open court that she was struggling to understand issues in the highly charged case against two black defendants. 
The judge replaced the woman, identified only as juror 373, with an Asian woman who appeared to be in her 20s, cho­sen by lottery from three alter­nates. The jury now has three blacks, four Hispanics, three whites and two Asians. 
Attorneys for the two defen­dants, Damian Williams and Henry Watson, objected to the prosecution's request for the juror's removal. The judge de­nied their request to postpone his decision until they could ap­peal. 
"This is basis for a mistrial or a new trial," attorney Edi Faal said outside court. 
Deputy District Attorney 
Janet Moore said the dismissal had nothing to do with the juror's views or personality. Moore said the panelist had been unable to function as a member of the jury. 
In a note to Ouderkirk, the jury forewoman said 11 jurors voted to have the woman re­moved because she was inter­fering with deliberations. 
The note said the woman "cannot comprehend anything that we've been trying to ac­complish. We tried patiently to talk and work with her, all to no avail. 
"It is unanimous and we feel she shouldn't continue in the deliberations. This has nothing to do with her views on issues or her personally. She doesn't use common sense. 
"Lastly, just when we've made progress in final deci­sions she is totally oblivious to what were discussed or de­cided." 
Ouderkirk replaced the woman after several jurors were interviewed in a closed­door hearing. 
The judge said he found that 
the woman "has been failing to 
deliberate as the law defines 
it." 
Defense attorneys asked that 
a transcript of the closed-door session be released. Ouderkirk did not fUle on that. 
The jury had deliberated for eight days. Juror 373 was the fourth panelist replaced in the case. Two women left during the trial for health reasons, and a man was dismissed just be­fore deliberations for allegedly talking to friends about the case in violation of the judge's instructions. 
Williams, 20, and Watson, 29, are accused of attempted pre­meditated murder and other felonies in the attack on Denny, a white trucker who was pulled from his vehicle and beaten in view of a television news cam­era aboard a helicopter. 
They also are accused of as­saulting other motorists on April 29, 1992, during the un­rest after four white police offi­cers were acquitted of most state charges in the beating of black motorist Rodney King. 
Two of the four officers were later convicted of violating King's federal civil rights. 
Sgt. Stacey Koon and former Officer Laurence Powell were expected to surrender Tuesday to begin their 30-month sen­tences at the minimum security Dublin Federal Prison Camp in northern California. 

--------------------------------------------------------------. 
Michelle Roehl The Observer 
Addressing the faculty 
University President Father Edward Malloy makes his annual speech to the faculty at the Hesburgh Library. 


Race kicks-off festival HPC safety initiative includes more 
By KIMBERLY BERO 
News Writer 
To coincide with current Oktoberfest activities taking place across campus, Saint Mary's Athletic Department will kick off its annual Oktoberfest Walk/Run at 5:15 this evening in Angela Athletic Facility, ac­cording to Assistant Athletic Director Maurine Hardy. 
The race will begin at Angela Athletic Facility, and will in­clude both a three mile run and a one and a half mile walk en­compassing the Saint Mary's campus. The competition will conclude back at Angela where all participants will receive T­shirts and refreshments. First and second place prizes will be presented and a raffle will be held to give away 40 gift certifi­cates to local businesses. 
"We tried to make this an 
athletic event that would be easily accessible to all members of the Saint Mary's communi­ty," stated Hardy. "The Walk/Run should cater to the workout styles of both faculty and students while being a lot of fun at the same time." 
There will also be a separate group competition extended to both faculty and students. In this division, the group with the most participants wins a pizza party from Barnaby's. "The group competition really helps to build community spirit and involvement," Hardy said. "It was really popular last year." 
Anyone wishing to participate can pre-register at the front desk in Angela. The cost for participation in the race is three dollars, which offsets the overall cost ·of the Walk/Run. 
see OCTOBERFEST/ page 4 

transportation and increased patrols 
By KATE CRISHAM 
News Writer 
Citing various incidents which have occurred on cam­pus in recent months, the Hall Presidents' Council passed a resolution last night in an at­tempt to improve campus se­curity. 
1: ,,,,• Q:l fj!n ~~~ fJSnlh1[~" 
The resolution, authored by Pasquerilla West Hall co­President Angie Kerrigan, Alumni Hall co-Presidents Steve Dalton and Dominic Carreira and Lyons Hall co-President Angie Gutermuth, called for increasing the patrollment of student parking lots to an aver­age of once every 30 minutes and for allowing drivers 15 minutes after dark to drop stu­dents on campus. The resolu­tion, after motions by Keenan Hall co-President J.P. Kimes and Zahm Hall co-President Kevin Jandora, was passed unanimously by the council. 

The council also announced that plans were underway to establish a Taxi Voucher sys­tem in the near future. 
"The cab companies are ea­ger to get started," said HPC co­Chairperson Jackie Macy. ·"Notre Dame's policy will be to make this service available to all students." 
Keenan Hall co-President Rich Palermo outlined plans to begin a round-trip taxi service which would drive students to various off-campus locations, such as the airport or the mall, for a reduced fee. 
"We want to stop drunk driv­ing, but we also want to give people a safer way to and from off-campus," said Palermo. 
"What we want to do now is to provide a 24 hour a day, 7 days a week service for stu­dents to get off-campus," ex­plained Walsh Hall co-President Maria Capua. 
In other news, it was an­nounced that all dorm presi­dential elections would be held in March, and all presidents would take office on April 1. 
Lewis, Keenan, Sorin and Walsh Halls announced that they would be sponsoring a Battle of the Bands from 4-7 
p.m. this Thursday at the Fieldhouse Mall. Seven campus bands will be participating. 

Radio celebrity shows way to healthy relationships 
By MARY GOOD 
News Writer 
"Am I mistaken or is there some great chemistry going on here?'' was the pick-up line that relationships expert and former celebrity radio talk­show hostess. Ellen Gootblatt, recommended in her lecture, "Meeting, Dating, Helating, and Mating," last night at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. 
Gootblatt was born and raised in a Jewish neighbor­hood in Brooklyn, NY., where at the age of 18 she met and fell in love with John Duffy, a young man who was studying to become a priest. After four years, the relationship ended when both decided that their long-term goals were too dif­ferent and Duffy gave Gootblatt up for Lent. This love affair, and subsequent relationships, sparked Gootblatt's interest in the study of human relations and prompted her to write two books on the subject. 
Today she is touring col­leges using humorous anec­dotes to communicate her mes­sage about healthy relation­ships. 
"Make yourself fabulous be­fore you reach out to someone else," was Gootblatt's advice to anyone looking to begin or im­prove a relationship. She asked listeners to look within and determine whether or not 
. they would date themselves. Sbe also emphasized tbe im­portance of never settling for mediocrity. "Reach out· only for excellence," she said. People should seek, expect and settle for nothing less than the best, Gootblatt added. All relationships that are in­herently good are worth going for and are meant to be easy, according to Gootblatt. She also spoke about the impor­tance of committing to making such a relationship work. If a person suspects from an instinct that a relationship is 

bad, she suggests they, "run for the hills," before it is too late. 
"Do not take anyone on as a project," she said. The under­lying key to healthy relation­ships is keeping sight of oneself and celebrating your partner. She highlighted this point in question form. 
"Am I fine alone and even fmer in this relationship?" she asked listeners to ask them-. selves. 
Gootblatt also expressed her concern for the trend in sexual behavior in young people to­day. 
She perceives young attitudes toward intimate relationships follow the script, "Hello, how are you, let's go to bed." She compared sex in today's world to a handshake. 
Gootblatt challenged last night's young audience to stop sharing sheets and bodies and to start learning how to share intimacy. Her definition of in­timacy includes "going to the edge," by stripping away ar­mour and defenses and partici­pating in relationships that in­clude friendship, trust, loyalty, integrity and fidelity. Without these eleme·nts, "You have nothing," she said. 
Gootblatt also offered a recipe for her own aphrodisiac. 
see GOOTBIATTI page 4 

~­

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Institutional racism thrives in America 
In the song MKnow Your Enemy," the pained lead singer of the rock band Rage Against the Machine sings of the American experience: wThe Land of the Free? I Whoever told you that is your enemy." 
Americans may be tech­nically free to attempt to t '· " better themselves. But 
--'(::::~'
technical freedom does lit­
tle where there is little opportunity. It would be ·: \ .. ·~ ..· . difficult to disagree that equal opportunity is a 
Mark Krejci myth in America-espe-Asst. Viewpoint Editor cially inner-city America. There are subtle but powerful forces in this c?unt_r~ (and th~ world) which work against mmonttes, particularly against African-Americans. The academics of race call the sum of these forces winstitutional racism." What else can explain the disparities between blacks and whites in this country? Such as why African Americans comprise such a small percentage of the people in high paying jobs-CEOs, doctors, lawyers, etc. Or why the average income of blacks is sub­stantially lower than that of whit~s. . Or why those in power are domg nothmg to remedy the problems in the inner cities of our country. There are some rays of hope in this bleak picture. Right here in South Bend, there ~s a quaint little church where blacks and whttes come to worship and pray together. The music's great, too. (St. Augustine's Catholic Church, 1501 W. Washington) Another ray of hope I've encountered exists in an inner city community on Chicago's near West Side: North Lawndale. There. I volunteered at a Catholic church called St. Agatha's. All involved with that church are devoting their lives to improving conditions in their community. Everyone I met in that community treated me with the utmost kindness and good will. One of the most important things I learned from my experience seems obvious, yet proba­bly escapes many people: The vast majority of inner city residents live lives similar to all of ours. Family members work, go to school, take care of their children and pray every day to help them make it through. They're trying to live life the best they can. Just like all of us. The media focuses almost exclusively on all the problems of the inner city. We must real­ize, however, that it is a very small percent~ge of the community which is involved wtth drugs, gangs and guns. . Visits aid in understanding, but whttes must realize that they can never have a full under­standing of the social reality for blacks-of what it's like to be black in America. The administration has made efforts to increase the number of minority students at Notre Dame. I suggest that it should continue increasing the number. I don't pretend to have any answers to our country's racial problems. I do believe, howev­er that Americans need to recognize the prob­Ie:O. It is mind-bogglingly complex. It is subtle. It is institutional. African-Americans may have gained politi­cal equality in the 1960s. But racial problems will not decrease until blacks in this country have the same opportunity to achieve econom­ic equality that whites have. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Nancy Dunn Allison Ebel Suzy Fry Jackie Moser 
Sports Kathie Young Rian Aikey Accent Viewpoint Lisa Monaco Michael O'Hara Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan Dave Hungding 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday exc.Tpt during exam and vac.a[ion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
NATION AT AGLANCE Kevorkian ordered to stand trial in second assisted suicide charge 
REDFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian made himself out to be a martyr after being ordered to stand trial on a sec_o!l~ assisted­suicide charge, likening the case to the Inqmsttton 
Kevorkian is charged with helping Donald O'Keefe, a 73-year-old victim of bone cancer, kill himself Sept. 9 ~y inhaling carbon monoxide that he released from a cams­ter by tugging on a string tied to his finger with a slip­knot. The 65-year-old Kevorkian snickered ana sho?k his head Monday as Judge Karen Khalil refuse~ to dts­miss the charge on constitutional grounds. Arratgnment was set for Oct. 26; no immediate trial date was set. "You people are witnessing the Inquisition. It's still alive," Kevorkian told reporters as he left the cou~thous~, free on $10,000 bail. Kevorkian was found at 0 Keefe s bedside just hours after being ordered to stand trial ~or his part in the suicide of Thomas Hyde, a 30-year-old VIC­tim of Lou Gehrig's disease. The trial is set for F~b. _15. The retired pathologist admitted he helped Hyd_e ktll h•J?­self but he has remained silent about his role m O'K~efe's death. Kevorkian has been present at 18 sui­cides since 1990. He could get four years in prison on each assisted-suicide charge, under a law that was rushed through the Legislature to stop him. 
Clinton OKs aid for flood victims 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton made available $65 million in emer­gency funds Tuesday to addres~ public health. problems and social service needs resultmg from floodmg of the Mississippi River and its tributaries in the upper Midwest. 
A White House statement said the money will be used to prevent the spread of disease, repair public health clinics and provide social services for the elderly. 
The funds were allocated by Congress in an emergency supplemental appropriations act, contingent ~n the. presi­dent submitting a budget request and destgnatmg an amount needed for emergency purposes. 
Of the $75 million appropriated for that purpose, $65 million now is available with no further congressional action required. 
Powell and Koon regular prisoners 
DUBLIN, Calif. 
Two Los Angeles police officers convicted in the Rodney King beating were fingerprinted and photograp~e? Tuesday as they began 2 1/2-year sentences at a mtm­mum-security prison. No special arrangements were made for former Officer Laurence Powell and Sgt. Stacey Koon, although officials said crowding has eased at the Federal Prison Camp in Dublin, so the two won't be sleeping on the floor as origil_lally p~anned.. Because of crowding at the prison, offictals sa1d earher that Koon and Powell would have to sleep on mattresses on the floor until beds for them became available. But Killian said Tuesday the crowding had eased. "We had some problems a few weeks ~go, but now e~~ryone has a bed," she said. Despite the tmproved condttwns, the prese!lce of only a few guards and the absence of ~U;rbed w1_re. Koon and Powell will endure cheerless conditions durmg their stay, officials said. Prisoners work ~s roofers, elec­tricians, cooks, orderlies, landscapers or m other manual jobs for which they are paid 12 to 14 cents an h~ur. Killian said. Despite their being officers and the notonety surrounding the case, "They're housed in t.~e g~n~ral population," said prison spokeswoman Jamce Ktlhan. The two surrendered to prison authorities 10 minutes 
before a noon deadline. 
INDIANA Weather 
Wednesday, Oct. 13 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatun:s 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 13. 
FRONTS: 
.....,......... ..&..a-..,........_ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure . .~ ~ rf\ 
H L B [Sl [Til 0 ~ 81l ¥ L-.i C,___,! 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T--STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUOY 
VIlli A3soaaiK1 PfDS5 
Jerusalem 81 63 Phoanix 89 70 London 59 54 Reno 65 51 
H L 
Athens 88 61 Los Angeles 80 42 Rome 75 52Atlanta 63 51 Minneapolis 62 35 Seoul 70 52Boston 47 34 New York 54 40 Toronto 51 40Chicago 58 32 Paris 66 59 Tokyo 73 59Cleveland 59 31 Philadelphia 60 40 Washington, D.C 59 40Dallas 72 54 
Dr. Kevorkian's timetable 
June 4, Janet Adkins, 54, 
Feb.4,

~ 
Portland, Ore. 
1990 1993 
Oct. 23, Sherry Miller, 43, Roseville Mich. 
/~ 1991 
Marjorie Wantz, 58, 
t""'.J Feb. 8, 

Sodus, Mich. 
.,.. w 1993 
.~...~-:.:·· 1,~~~~.":::{ ~ ~;:; 15, 
' M Sept. 26, Lois F. Ha~es, 52, -. 
. W 1992 Warren, Mtch. ,'( 
_ --.. -" ., -~ May 16, 
· ~ Nov. 23, C~thertne Andreyev, 45, 1993 .. W 1992 Moon Townshtp, Pa. "5'£:_~ 
'" ~--A199ug3. 4,
'"'"' ~.,:' ~-~,;<;-=~~Tate, 7o:· f ~ 
• ' Auburn Htlls, Mteh. · 1992 Marcella Lawrence, 67 ---. .. ·. 
MI. Clemens, Mich. '-'·""-~-"""-~--~--..,.,.~,., _________ ··1 

Don O'Keefe, 73 Redford Townshtp, MICh. 
Navy ship loses marijuana load 
MIAMI 
A ship intercepted by the U.S. N~vy with 7,000 poun?s of marijuana aboard sank while bemg towed to Colomb•~· Only two bales, totaling 100 pounds, were saved for e~t­dence. Coast Guard spokesman Rob Wyman satd Tuesday. The 40-foot Colombian-registered Elena de Troya was spotted Sunday by the crew of a Navy aircraft 90 miles north of Colombia's Guajira Peninsula. A Navy ship carrying a drug-tracking Coast Guard detachment intercepted the vessel and found four crewmen, along with 138 50-pound bales of marijuana. The Navy ship, which the Coast Guard would not identify, took the Elena de Troya in tow to hand over to Colo.mbian authoriti.es but it began taking on water and capstzed, Wyman satd. The ship's crew were handed over to Colombian officials on Monday. 
Convicted killer suing maker of Halcion 
TAMPA, Fla. 
A convicted killer who blames his crimes on the sleep­ing pill Halcion is suing the drug's maker. William Jones of Riverdale, Ga., accuses The Upjohn Co. of f~ili~g to investigate possible dangers of Halcion before dtstnbut­ing it to the public. His lawsuit says he has no memory of killing Arthur and Catherine Schilling because he was under the control of the drug. Kaye Bennett, a spokes­woman for the Kalamazoo, Mich.-based Upjohn, said Tuesday she could not comment on the lawsuit.~eca'!se she had not seen it. But she defended the drug. Halcwn has been used by millions of people and there is no indi­cation it would cause that type of behavior. We stand behind our product," Bennett said. Schilling, 62, . had been stabbed twice and shot twice. His wife, 64, was shot five times and satbbed 17 times. Critics have said Halcion can cause serious side effects, including short­term memory loss, violent behavior and hallucination.s. The federal Food and Drug Administration concluded m 1992 it was safe and effective when used as directed. In November 1992, a Texas jury awarded $2.15 .million to the family of a man who said Halcion altered hts person­ality and made him kill a friend. 
Stanley Ball, 82. Leland, Mich. Mary Biemat, 73, Crown Point, Ind. 
Elaine Goldbaum, 47, Southfield, Mich. 
::..c::~-~  
Ron Mansur, 54, Detroit, Mich.  
~~r~--:.s~~~· 30, ~-.  •. ,_  


VIB Assoctated Press Graph!csNat C1993 Accu-WeE·lher, l'lc. 
Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
Philanthropic activities more accessible with service center 
By PATTI CARSON 
News Writer 
A new service center will im­prove relations between the students and the Holy Cross Sisters of Saint Mary's College, said Sister Miriam Cooney (CSS) at last night's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
I:N:l jliii]16Iilj!j)NrW[6. 
Sister Miriam proposed the 
idea of the Saint Mary's 
Christian Service Center 
(SMCSC) to the members of 
BOG and expressed an interest 
in creating the center during 
this Sesquicentennial year. 
Sister Miriam briefly discussed 
the plan's budget, which would 
include funding for remodeling, 
vehicles, computers and 
trained personnel. 
The center would work in col­
laboration with SURV (Spes 
Unica Resource and Volunteer) 
to organize and coordinate ser­
vice activities for students, fac­
ulty, alumnae and the Holy 
Cross Sisters of Saint Mary's, 
according to SURV President 
Kristin Johnson. SMCSC would 
also provide a place to hold 
meetings .and lectures on cam­pus. Classes would be able to perform service projects through the center; thus, en­abling social work majors a more convenient opportunity to fulfill their requirements. 
The center would probably employ Holy Cross Sisters for the positions of director and secretary, but a student coordi­nator would also be needed. 
Delegates from BOG will meet to hear the concrete proposal today in Madeleva Hall before any measures are taken in sup­port of the plan. 
In other business: 
•Hall 
section pictures will be taken on November 3 by King Shots Photography. 

•The 
all campus masquerade ball will be held this Saturday in the Haggar College Center from 8pm-midnight. There will be a raffle, live bands, movies and a haunted house. A cos­tume shop is on campus renting outfits today and tomorrow. 

•There 
is a retreat planned for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women on October 17 from llam-6pm at the Michigan Lake Dunes. Contact Saint Mary's Campus Ministry at 284-5391 if interested. 


"Get to know the law before the law gets to know you" 
Presented by the SUDS Task Force Thursday, October 14th--8:30PM Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center 

A Survev of Datincr Couoles 
If you are currently in a dating relationship, we are interested in your views about yourself, your partner and the relationship. We would like to send you a survey to complete at your convenience. As a way of thanking you for your help, we will enter your name in a lottery to win one of many exciting prizes, including CASH! 
Please call us at 631-8791 for information or to sign up. We thank you for your help. 
(Prizes: cash prizes, dinner for 2 at Nick's Patio, General Cinema movie passes, Bonnie Doon's ice cream) 
Relationships research project Department of Psychology University of Notre Dame 

Michelle RochfThe Observer 
Staying healthy 

A Notre Dame student receives a flu shot in the Hesburgh Library corridor. The shots are being adminis­tered free of charge in an attempt to help prevent the outbreak of a flu epidemic. 



World Bank supports women 
tal" through proper education and training. 
•To 
let them gain full control over their own bodies and well­being. 

•To 
allow them to exercise a fully productive role in society, both in the field of production and in politics. 


Keare cited a recent program in the Middle Eastern country of Yemen as an example of the World Bank's new emphasis on gender issues. Keare said that the educational system of Yemen constituted a "vicious cycle": girls seldom went to school because there were few female teachers, and there were few female teachers be­cause so few girls attended school. 
The World Bank began a pro­gram of female teacher ed­ucation in Yemen, Keare said. They convinced the government to drop certain teacher qualifi­cations, allowing villages to select their own teachers, whom the Bank subsequently trained. The Bank also built new housing and raised subsi­dies to help the new teachers, Keare stated. 
Such innovative projects have made Keare "guardedly opti­mistic" about the future of the World Bank's gender-related programs. However, he said, there are many aspects of the Bank that are not conducive to gender issues. 

ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
The World Bank is striving to take an active part in improv­ing the status of women in the Third World, according to Douglas Keare, chief of the World Bank's population and resource division for the Middle East and North Africa. 
Keare lectured yesterday to students and faculty on "Gender Issues in Developing Countries: Perspectives from the World Bank." The World Bank is the United Nations or­ganization dedicated to improv­ing the economic conditions of underprivileged countries. 
Keare said that the World 
Bank, which until the 1960's took absolutely no part in women's issues, has recently begun taking strides in the right direction. When the Bank underwent a massive reorgani­zation in 1987, a human re­sources department was estab­lished. The operations of this department encompass gender issues. 
Keare listed the four basic services that the World Bank hopes to bring to the women of developing countries: 
•To 
free them from undue burdens and constraints, such as those caused by the low technology of food preparation equipment in poor countries. 

•To 
allow them "to fully de­velop (their) own human capi-




Dr. Herb True 
The World's Greatest Edu-Tainer 
...Will be speaking at the CAPP Honor Society 
meeting on October 13. 1993 at 7pm in 
Debartolo. Room 120. He will be speaking on 
the importance ofinterpersonal skills in 
today 's world. Communication is of vital importance and without good communication . . skills. a key characteristic employers look for, it is very difficult to get a job. Dr. True has deliv­
ered over 3000 speeches all around the world. 
Come join us! 
All are welcome to attend. 
Wednesday, October 13th 7:00pm Debartolo Room 120 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 1993 

Militia cease-fire holds, Pentagon appeal delays gay rights 
N.D. I S.M.C. I.D. =F.D. 
(Notre oamt' or sr. Mary's College ldentlflcallon Equals a Free Desert.) OH'EH EXCLUDES FOOTI~ALL AND I'ARE:-.ITS WEEKENDS 
............~--------· 
US jets buzz Mogadishu 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI, Kenya 
U.N. forces welcomed a cease-fire by Mohamed Farrah Aidid, and contacts were under way Monday to find a long-term solution to Somalia's agony. But the United Nations staged a show of force that shook Mogadishu overnight, and an Aidid spokesman branded it a provocation. 
After a third night in Mogadishu without attacks on fortified U.N. positions, Jonathan Howe, the U.N. spe­cial envoy to Somalia, told re­porters: "We welcome all over­tures of peace and stability in Mogadishu, as we have seen them in the rest of the coun­try." 
It was unclear whether the cease-fire reflected an effort by Aidid to help the negotiations, or simply a decision to lie low for the time being. The United States has decided to withdraw almost all its forces, the back­bone of the U.N. presence, by March 31. 
Fighting between U.N. peace­keepers and Aidid's militiamen has been largely confined to the part of Mogadishu controlled by Aidid. Leaders of the other 14 main factions generally are 
Gootblatt 
continued from page I 
"Shared history and continuity with one person," are all that are needed she said. 
"Sex should never be taken, but always given lovingly, will­ingly, wholly and fully," she stated. 
At the conclusion of her pre­sentation, Gootblatt spoke per­sonally and candidly on issues specifically troubling the crowd 


Octoberfest 
continued from page I 
Thus far, about 40 contes­tants comprised of both faculty and students have entered the race. The final entrance total is anticipated at over 100 com­petitors, which would surpass cooperating with U.N. forces elsewhere in rebuilding the nation after a devastating civil war and famine. 
Aidid reportedly announced the suspension of attacks in a radio broadcast Saturday. 
The move was timed for the Sunday arrival of President Clinton's envoy, Robert Oakley, who is exploring a negotiated settlement of the conflict. 
Oakley met with Aidid's rep­resentatives on Sunday, said a diplomat in Mogadishu. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he did not know specifics of the discus­sions. 
American F-18 Hornet fight­ers and A-6 Intruder bombers roared low over the seaside capital Monday, the thunder of their engines rattling windows and emphasizing Clinton's de­cision to reinforce the U.S. peacekeeping contingent. 
Before dawn, U.S. AC-130 aerial gunships fired their radar-guided cannons at mock targets in an unpopulated area near the city. It was the second time in three nights that the four-engine gunships tested their weapons, the same kind used to blast Aidid's home and weapons caches in the first ma­jor retaliatory raids against the warlord in mid-June. 
m Carroll Audiiormm. She hied through a stack of index cards and discussed answers to ques­tions that audience members had written on them prior to her lecture. 
In light of the great number of students who expressed an anxiety about not being en­gaged upon graduation, she offered some realistic insight. Young people should not move from their parents' home, to the dormitory, directly into marriage, according to Gootblatt. "At some point, it must be your own home and your own budget," she said. 
last year's record of 85 partici­pants. 
"The Walk/Run will be com­petitive because there are some good racers," states Dawn Kokot, one of last year's partic­ipants, "But, you can go at your own pace, too." 
"The Oktoberfest Walk/Run is a great idea-it's convenient, it's fun and, basically, it's just a good time," said Kokot. 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Pentagon will ask the Supreme Court to delay en­forcement of a federal court order that banned discrimina­tion against gays in the mili­tary. a spokeswoman said Tuesday. 
"We will seek extraordinary relief from the Supreme Court," Kathleen deLaski told reporters at a Pentagon briefing. 
In the meantime, the Pentagon has instructed units to suspend its ban on homo­sexuals in the military while it pursues the case, she said. 
The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last Friday left in place an order issued Sept. 30 by U.S. District Judge Terry Hatter Jr. of Los Angeles banning dis­crimination against gays in the military. 
A three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit court unanimously de­nied the Defense Department's emergency request to suspend or immediately overturn Hatter's decision. 
On Oct. 1, Assistant Secretary of Defense Edwin Dorn issued a memorandum saying that, "No administrative action will be taken based solely on a service member's homosexual orien­tation or statements of homo­sexuality." 
Ihe most common quesbons dealt with long distance rela­tionships, appropriate times to get engaged and the elements of jealousy and trust in rela­tionships. 
Jealousy is about ownership, not love, Gootblatt explained. If geared into constructive, con­trollable channels, it will not harm a relationship. If, how­ever, a significant other begins to call multiple times each afternoon, caution should be taken. 

Echoing Creen Puhlic Ser.,ice Fellowship 
What would you do if someone gave you $15,000 because they believed in you and your idea1? 
• 
Aran is going to Costa Rica to start an organization which recruits, trains, and places volunteers in Latin American environmental NGO's. 

• 
Jennifer is continuing a youth leadership program in the Bronx which reclaims abandoned lots and turns them into community gardens. 

• 
Sara is starting a youth entrepreneurship program for young people in Boston's lowest-income communities. 

• 
Jae.l is working in South Dakota with Albert White Hat to write and publish the first Native Amer1can Lakota-language textbook to be used in school curriculum. 

• 
Nathaniel is designing and teaching a radical history curriculum to school children in the village of Nonkobe in the Transkei of South Africa. The 1994 Echoing Green Public Service Fellowship offers outstanding college seniors $15,000 seed. money. and tech~ical assistanc~ to start innovative projects or organizations in public ~e!v1ce. Do1ng anyth1n~. Anywhere 1n the world. Right after graduation. Challenge yourself and JOin the 76 other Echo1ng Green Fellows world-wide who are working with communities to make a difference• 


Find out more: Meet the Echoing Green Program Director 
Wet1ne~t1ay, OciDber t11h t25 DeBatiDID 4-5 p.m. ApplicaliDnl due February t11h, t994 
By taking that position, the department is acknowledging its well-es.tablished obligation to follow a judge's nationwide injunction, said John McGuire, the attorney for a gay sailor whose lawsuit led to the ruling. 
In asking the court to sus­pend Hatter's ruling, Justice Department lawyers said it would "seriously interfere with management of day-to-day mil­itary affairs." 
The appeals court's order did not comment on the merits of the case. But McGuire said the order "demonstrates a certain degree of confidence by the ap­peals court in Judge Hatter's finding." 
The decision was issued by Circuit Judges Otto Skopil, David Thompson and Pamela Rymer. The same panelwill hear the administration's appeal of Hatter's ruling in December. 
The Pentagon delayed im­plementation of President Clinton's "don't ask, don't tell, don't pursue" policy on Oct. 1 while it awaited congressional action on the issue and dealt with the court challenges. 
The Defense Department said that for the time being the in­terim policy that Clinton ordered in January would con­tinue. That policy stops the practice of questioning recruits about their sexual orientation 
ot(\ We're Still Open ~,.. fl09c; Daily from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. ~ Po,o_..
~<ee 'Or~ 


THE COMMONS 
'The Traditon Continues" 




The 1994 
and transfers to reserve status those who declare their homo­sexuality. 
But the Oct. 1 memo by Dorn, who is responsible for person­nel issues, halts transfers as well as discharges. 
"Administrative discharge cases based solely upon homo­sexual orientation or state­ments of homosexuality will be held in abeyance," the memo said. "No member will be dis­charged or transferred to the standby reserve solely on the basis of homosexual orientation or statements of homosexual­ity." 
Clinton's policy ends the practice of questioning recruits or service members about their sexual orientation. But the mili­tary will discharge members "who engage in homosexual conduct, which is defined as a homosexual act, a statement that the member is homosexual or bisexual, or a marriage or attempted marriage to someone of the same gender." 
Hatter ordered an end to dis­crimination in a written order that broadened his January rul­ing that the Pentagon's ban on homosexuals was unconsti­tutional. 
The case deals with a gay sailor, Petty Officer Keith Meinhold, who filed a lawsuit challenging the military's ban on homosexuals. 

Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Foreign activities persist Kohl's candidacy jeopardized 
despite domestic problems 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
President Clinton declared Tuesday night that the United States "cannot withdraw from the world we have done so much to make" just because there are limits to what can be done to solve internal prob­lems. 
Speaking at the 200th an­niversary of the University of North Carolina, Clinton said the post-Cold War world "is full of hope ... but not without its heartbreak. 
"The oppression of commu­nist control has disappeared, but that disappearance has re­opened ugly ethnic and reli­gious divisions," he said. 
The president warned against returning to isolation­ism, despite the increasingly complex and difficult foreign policy crises facing his administration and the world. 
He spelled out his world view on the day he recalled a U.S. warship that had been not al­lowed to dock in Haiti and sev­eral days after he vowed to end the U.S. military presence in Somalia by March 31. 
Both were elements of U.N. missions. 
"The United Nations can do more good than ever before, but clearly there are limits to what outside forces can do to solve the severe internal prob­lems of some countries." 
Still, Clinton added: "We can­not withdraw from the world we have done so much to make." 
Clinton, addressing a stadium audience of more than 40,000 on a crisp clear night, ex­pressed "gratitude and my pro­found sympathy" for six ser­vicemen from Fort Bragg, N.C., who were killed in Somalia. 


•
Gla"'ses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

•
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 



Q C&B. I 
'/?.tiCQ



One. 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 4121 s. Michigan 5327 Grape Road 
(1/2 Mi. S. ~ University Park Mall)
(U '· 31 South) 
291-9200 277-8121 
By TERRENCE PETTY 
Associated Press 
BONN, Germany 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl re­jected the World Jewish Congress' view that his candi­date for Germany's new presi­dent is unacceptable because of his statements about Germany's Nazi past. 
"This is a question for the Germans to decide, and I don't need any instruction from the World Jewish Congress," Kohl said in an interview on the Sat­1 cable television network. 
Kohl's Christian Democrats have nominated Steffen Heitmann, justice minister for eastern Germany's Saxony state, as their candidate to suc­ceed President Richard von Weizsaecker. 
A successor to Weizsaecker will be elected in March. 
The World Jewish Congress and other Jewish groups have criticized Heitmann's views on the Holocaust. 
In a recent interview, Heitmann suggested that it's time for Germans to put the Nazi past behind them. 
Jewish leaders say that kind of talk encourages right-wing extremists, who have been at­tacking foreigners and dese­crating Holocaust memorials since Germany was reunited three years ago. 
Kohl, who personally selected Heitmann, says Heitmann is misunderstood and the victim of a campaign by leftists to dis­credit Kohl's government. 

Heitmann's critics say he shouldn't be running for the largely ceremonial but still im­portant post if he can't state his views more clearly. 
In the past, Weizsaecker has won praise around the world for saying Germans must learn from what happened under the Nazis to prevent it from ever happening again. 
Kohl's three-party governing coalition developed a serious crack over the issue on Monday when the junior coalition part­ners, the Free Democrats, said they could not endorse Heitmann. 

Major FBI positions eliminated 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK FBI director, Louis Freeh on Associa ted Press Tuesday announced a reorga­nization that eliminates two as­WASHINGTON sociate deputy directors and Just six weeks after becoming four dozen other management 
OCTOBER IS 
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION MONTH 

THANK YOU 
SPECIALS 
2C COPIES 
Limit 500 per customer, 8.5" x 11" White Bond. 


49CFAX 

Sending & Receiving, domestic transmissions only, per page. 
Phone charges may apply. 
$20Ffups

Ground, 2-Day or Overnight & All Other UPS Services. Per customer, per day.
•
· . 

· : MAIL BQ,V'r'C" ETC." 
:A.J:..;;)
II

18115 S.R. 23 (Martin's Ironwood Plaza) South Bend, IN 46637 Open: (219) 277-6245 Sam-7pm Mon-Fri Fax(219)277-767S 10am-6pm Sat 
II•••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
Franch>ses lnaependently Owned ,~ Operated. 

01992 Mail BoxP.s Ere. 
posts. 
Freeh announced he was abolishing the posts of Weldon Kennedy, associate deputy di­rector for administraiton, and 
W. Douglas Gow, the associate deputy director for investiga­tions. 
"The changes are not based on Jack of confidence in those holding these positions," Freeh said in a statement. "All have given many years of devoted service to the FBI and will be offered other posts in the bu­reau. No one will be dis­charged." 
But now new assignments were announced Tuesday for Kennedy and Gow or the other officials who will lose their ti­tles. 
Gow is already serving past the mandatory retirement age of 57, said FBI spokesman Charles Mandigo, but Kennedy is not. 
Such information may be re­vealed at a news conference scheduled for Wednesday at the FBI, where Freeh was expected to announce wholesale changes in assignments, particularly at the crucial level of assistant director. 
One FBI official said he ex­pected about 50 percent of those assignments to change. 
Under the reorganization, the assistant directors who head individual divisions and the New York City field office will report directly to Freeh and Deputy Director Floyd Clarke. 
In addition, a new assistant 
directorship will be created for the head of the Washington Metropolitan field office, in recognition of that office's im­portance in anti-crime and for­eign counterintelligence work. Most field offices are led by a 
special agent. 

NOTRE DAME STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF, RETIREES &RETIREE SPOUSES: 

i/J 






'U shots
ll' 

dates: OCTOBER 12th, 13th &14th times: 9:30am· 6:30pm (12th &13th) 9:30am -12 noon (14th) locations: LIBRARY CONCOURSE LAFORTUNE /O'HARA LOUNGE 
Must present N.D. identification and wear short-sleeved shirt/top in order to receive injection Sponsored by Student Affairs & Human Resources 
-------~-­
-------·­
-~-----~-·~·-----~-----­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
US Haitian effort complicated Yeltsin visits Japan just Army-backed mob blocks troops from landing after quelling rebellion 

reporters gathered for the By DAVID THURBER Because of the lingering ten­
By ED McCULLOUGH 
U.S. mission to Haiti 
scheduled docking, then Associated Press sions, which have also kept the
Associated Press 
U.S. troops on a multinational peace 
punched and kicked their cars two nations from signing a
mission received a hostile reception 
as they fled. TOKYO World War II peace treaty,
today when their warship was
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
blocked from docking and embassy 
"We don't want foreigners Japan rolled out the red car­Yeltsin is only the secondArmy-backed toughs, warn­
personnel were chased away from 
coming here and trying to tell pet for Russian President Boris Moscow leader to visit since the ing of another Somalia, blocked 
the port by an angry mob. 
us what to do!" one man Yeltsin on Tuesday, but the war. Soviet President Mikhail as part of a U.N. peace mission 
American troops from landing 
screamed. Another shouted: public goodwill could change to Gorbachev visited Japan in in Haiti on Monday and drove 
"We're going to do to them private tension in talks with 1991. away U.S. diplomats waiting to 
what they did in Somalia!" Prime Minister Morihiro Yeltsin cancelled planned vis­greet them. 
About a half-dozen men made Hosokawa. its twice. A band of 25 to 50 men, some 
similar references to Somalia. Emperor Akihito presided Before arriving Monday of them armed, then beat up 
Army commander Raoul over a morning welcoming cer­night, Yeltsin said he hoped the merchants in the nearby mar­
Cedras later defended Haitians' emony for the Russian leader, trip would focus on developing ket and fired guns while roving 
right to protest the U.N. mis­who later in the day was to closer relations between the through the capital, including 
sion. have a luncheon with top busi­two countries, "particularly in near the seaside U.S. Embassy. 
ness leaders and meet with the economic sphere." No casualties were reported. 
"The armed forces deplore Hosokawa. In a brief meeting with The gunmen later took over 
that citizens who are worried The talks were expected to Yeltsin while they were riding state Hadio Nationale. 
about their national sovereignty involve Japan's demands that from the airport to central 
and demonstrate to demand Russia turn over several small Tokyo, Japanese Foreign the disturbances would not halt 
U.S. and U.N. officials said 
clarity in government have northern islands seized by Minister Tsutomu Hata stressed been called 'gangsters' and Soviet troops in the closing his desire to forge "a true part­the overall peace mission. But it 'thugs' by members of the in­days of World War II-a topic nership" with Hussia, Japanese
was yet another direct chal­lenge by the military to the U.N. 
ternational community," Yeltsin has said he did not want news media reported. efforts to restore democracy to 
Cedras told reporters, reading to discuss. Japan already has pledged $5 from a statement. Yeltsin faces the dilemma billion in aid to Russia and has
Haiti. Although the group was 
But he added: "The armed that surrendering the islands no plans to expand that help. small, they clearly had the sup­
forces energetically condemns would weaken his strength at However, Japan apparently is the acts of violence that oc­home, while keeping them willing next year to reschedule
port of the powerful Haitian army's police division, which 
curred during the morning." could prompt Tokyo to cut off $1 billion in debts owed by stood by or even helped the 
He refused to answer ques­badly needed aid to his ailing Hussia, the national newspaper 
AP/Wm. . Castello 
tions. economy. Asahi said Monday. 
gang. Haiti's army commander least 17 American soldiers in
later defended Haitians' right to On Monday night, about 200 
Somalia last week, criticism hasprotest, although he deplored 
been growing in the United
the violence and occupation of States over participation in thestate media. 
mission.
In Washington, the Clinton The docking "will not takeadministration demanded that place until we have a permis­the Haitian military explain sive environment. That is, one
why the troops were not al­lowed to land. that is safe for the men in the 
The U.N. Security Council U.N. mission," U.S. Army Maj. adopted a U.S. statement Jim Hinnant, a mission Monday that said it was spokesman, told The Associated 
"imperative" that Haiti's armed Press. Hinnant, a member of forces ensure the safe landing the U.S. advance team flown in of the troops. The statement last week, said negotiations warned that sanctions could be were under way between mis­imposed if the Haitian military sion officials and the Haitian did not comply. government. 
Monday's landing was to be­
gin in earnest the peace mis­Port officials supported by the sion to restore democracy and Haitian military blocked the rebuild the economy. About 100 Harlan County's docking by 
U.N. personnel -including 25 moving another ship to the pier 
U.S. troops -are already in where arrangements were the country to do advance made days ago for the U.S. ship work. to berth at 10 a.m. Monday. After the disturbances, the Guards at the dock refused to White House delayed the de­let Vicki Huddleston, deputy ployment of the nearly 200 chief of mission at the U.S. 
American military medics, Embassy, enter the gate, and engineers and civil affairs spe­police stood by or blocked traf­cialists aboard the USS Harlan fic while a group of shouting County, an amphibious landing Haitians filed otT a bus. ship anchored 800 yards off­Described later by a trem­shore. There was no word on bling Huddleston as "a group of 
when the troops might dock. gangsters, a group of thugs," Following the killing of at the men shoved diplomats and 
Haitians maintained a peaceful anti-U.N. vigil along Harry S Happy 22nd Truman Boulevard in the docks area. The group was protected by soldiers. Birthday to the Haiti's military is betting the international community does not have the will to force it Guy with Bigfrom power. The military seized control two years ago by over­throwing President Jean­Feet but PlentyBertrand Aristide, Haiti's first freely elected leader. Still, Aristide is widely popu­of Nerve! lar with Haiti's poor masses, and there is overwhelming sup­port among ordinary Haitians for a U.N. peace plan that Love,would put the traditionally repressive military back in the Greg, Jake, & Kylebarracks.  
The NDE Fourth Day Community Proudly Presents Catherine lacugna of the Notre Dame Department of Theology on "The Trinity and Relationships" Wednesday Night 7:15 1n the Keenan/Stanford Chapel Refreshments will be served afterwards  

FALL FESTIVAL '93 
Come and help us beautify the Northeast Neighborhood! 
On November 6 (no, there)s not a game), we will plant flowers and clean up an area ofthe Northeast Neighborhood, and then, we)re throwing a block party! 
Sign up at SDH, NDH, the CSC, LaFortune Info Desk, Student Government and with your Hall Presidents! 
We want .JJOU! 
----~--~ 
Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 



Trial begins in Colorado anti-gay rights lawsuit 
previous 12 months, 85<per­cent said all their partners 
By CARL HILLIARD 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Supporters of Amendment 2 wanted to send a message to homosexuals that "we just don't like them," an attorney argued Tuesday at the start of a trial on the constitutionality of the state's anti-gay rights law. 
Attorneys for the state are defending the law, trying to prove gays should not be a pro­tected class, that they have political clout and that they may change their sexual pro­clivity. 
A coalition of cities and indi­viduals challenged Amendment 2, saying individual or group rights can't be infringed upon because a majority of citizens want it so. 
The trial will be closely watched as witnesses for both sides were expected to testify on the sociology, economics and political power of the gay rights movement. 
Mayor Wellington Webb, the 
first witness called Tuesday, were either spouses or some­acknowledged that Amendment .one to.w}l.~~ they Jelt commit· 2 doesn't prevent homosexuals ted. Only 4 percent of the mar­from voting. But he said its pas­ried people reported having sage "denied them protection more th~ one par the against discrimination in the a··c:asJlai·~·····tast year5•( · cities in which they reside." nrliiDllrv <AJso, the report said, 
·~~lthough peopl(l rarely use 
He said every individual and ~o~u:lo:tns )Yitll primary part,. group deserves protection from ner8, they .are somewhat more discrimination. Jack Wesoky, to use condoms with ca-an assistant state attorney gen­naJ-tnl~rs;" eral, asked if the protection extended to "short, bald guys," and Webb replied, "Yes, if they are being discriminated against." 
Webb had been expected to testify about Denver's gay-. rights ordinance, but the issue was only touched on briefly. 
LeAnna Ware of the Wisconsin Civil Rights Bureau 
House lifts restrictions on granting aid testified that about 100 of 8,000 complaints received by her agency every year pertain 

to PLO, office in DC now possibility
to discrimination based on sex­
ual orientation. Wisconsin has 
ByJIM ABRAMS aid to the Palestine Liberation 
a gay rights law. 
Associated Press Organization and opens the
She said the number of com­
way for the PLO to set up an of­
plaints required at least one 
WASHINGTON fice in Washington. 
additional employee to process 
The House agreed Tuesday to The voice-vote approval came 
them. 
a bill that lifts restrictions on a day after PLO Chairman 
Yasser Arafat won endorse­ment from the organization's policy-making council for the peace accord with Israel signed in Washington on Sept. 13. 
The Senate has already passed a similar measure, and Senate and House delegations are expected to meet this week to work out differences. 
The Middle East Peace Facilitation Act authorizes President Clinton to waive legal provisions that prohibit the PLO from operating offices in the United States or receiving U.S. funds through international or­ganizations. 
The administration has pledged to contribute $250 mil­lion over the next two years as part of an international effort to promote development in the new Palestinian self-govern­ment areas of the West Bank and Gaza, now occupied by Israel. 
The bill sets a Jan. 1 expira­tion date for the presidential waiver, and requires that new legislation be in effect by then if the waiver is to continue. Lawmakers set the deadline as a means of ensuring that the PLO is living up to its commit­ment to recognize Israel's peace and security and re­nounce violence. 
Rep. Howard Berman, D­Calif.• said quick passage was crucial because "it is critically important that Palestinians be­gin to see concrete improve­ments in their economic well­being and quality of life." 
He noted that the House Foreign Affairs Committee had approved an amendment to the Senate version that "alerts the PLO of Congress' expectation that prior to any further waiver of this kind being approved the PLO will actively work for an end to the Arab boycott of Israel." 
Rep. Charles Schumer. D­N.Y., said PLO silence on the economic boycott was one rea­son he opposed the bill. 
"It strikes me as extremely anomalous that at the very same time that we are lifting restrictions in preparations of sending aid to the PLO, we do not hear a peep about ending the economic boycott not only of Israel but of any American firm that does business with Israel," he said. 
The House also approved most-favored-nation trade sta­tus for Romania on Tuesday. endorsing a July 2 decision by Clinton to give Romania access to the lower tariffs enjoyed by almost all other U.S. trading partners. 

The right time. The right place. Blue chip. Green light State Farm processing equipment. You'll go State Farm is hiring. is one of America's leading insur­as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data ance companies. Through inno­You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or vative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your campus a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Placement Director about waiting for you in one of the larg­homeowner's insurer, and one of State Farm today. est corporate data processing the top life insurance companies Or write Daryl Watson, Assistant facilities in the country. in the country. Director, Home Office Personnel 
There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. Relations, One State Farm Plaza, ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-th&art data Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 1993 

50 cent minimum wage Democrats revive jobless benefits 
Dancing atLu 

I 
Winner of the 1992 
by Bnan Friel 
Tony Award for Best Play 
increase won't cost jobs 
By JOHN McCLAIN 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
L a b o r Secretary Robert Reich says the min­imum hourly wage could be increased by 50 cents, to $4. 75, without cost­ingjobs. 
President Clinton, who had urged a minimum wage in­crease during his campaign, had asked Reich for his rec­ommendations for raising the wage floor. 


Rostenkowski's records missing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congressional officials are trying to learn why payroll records from Rep. Dan Rostenkowski's office subpoe­naed in the House Post Office investigation are missing. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., told reporters Tuesday the U.S. attorney in Washington was notified that payroll documents from one office could not be located. Other officials said they were Rostenkowski's office records, sought by prosecutors and a federal grand jury. 
Foley said the missing pa­perwork authorizes the hiring of an employee or a change in 
"My conclusion is that the minimum wage could be raised to $4.7 5 an hour without any effect on job loss," he said in response to a question at a National Press Club luncheon. 
"The question is how best to allocate that 50-cent increase between real wage increases, health care costs or any other benefit for employees." 
Reich did not say whether he still favors automatic adjust­ments to reflect future inflation. He had said in a memo to Clinton last summer that index­ing "is a minimum prerequisite to reaching the goal of lifting families of four with full-time workers out of poverty." 
salary. The same information is available on House computers. 
"There is no indication that there is any payroll irregular­ity," Foley told reporters at his regular news conference. "As far as I know, all of the payroll records are in order. There is nothing in just the absence of a payroll authorization, as I un­derstand it, that is in itself any great problem. 
"The important thing is that the payroll, actually, accurately reflects who works in the office and that those persons actually perform their duties." 
The missing files were re­ported Tuesday in The Washington Times, which said the grand jury is investigating 


Playln1 at WuhlnJtOn Hall Reserved Seats: $7 
Wednesday, October I 3 8:10p.m. Student and senior citizen discounts Thursday, October 14 8:10p.m. are available Wednesday, Thursday Friday, October I 5 8:10p.m. and Sunday. Tickets are available at Saturday, October I 6 8:10p.m. the LaFortune Ticket Office. Master Sunday, Oc:tober I 7 2:30p.m. Card and Visa orders call: 63 1-8128. 
By AlAN FRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
House Democrats think they've resolved a dispute that has kept them from reviving a program providing extra bene­fits to Americans who have been out of work the longest. . 
Leaders said Tuesday that they had dropped a provision that would have paid for one­third of the $1.1 billion pro­gram by making it harder for many elderly recent immi­grants to get some welfare. The language had angered Hispanic lawmakers, which with opposi­tion by many Republicans made its House prospects uncertain. 
"They responded to a con­cern the Hispanic caucus had," said Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., 
possible ghost employees. 
"I don't think there's any ev,­dence of that at all," Foley said, when asked if there were employees on the payroll who did not show up for work. 
The former House postmas­ter, Robert V. Rota, has pleaded guilty to embezzlement and said he helped lawmakers obtain cash from the post of­fice. Documents filed in federal court indicate that Rostenkowski, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is one of the members. 

ALL-YOU-CAN-EAT 

CoDtplcntcntary Frcn~h Bread 
5:00pm-7:00pm 
a leader of the House's 20 Hispanic members. "We're very troubled· by anything that may have the perception of singling out immigrants." 
The House is likely to debate the bill later this week. 
Since November 1991, the government has provided extra weeks of coverage to people who have exhausted the basic 26 weeks of jobless benefits. The extended benefits were ini­tiated at a time when the re­cession was at its deepest. 
But for the first time since then, the program expired Oct. 2 because divided Democrats were unable to get a bill renew­ing the program to the House floor. 
The expiration affects 60,000 people who every week use up the basic 26 weeks of coverage. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement of intent to Jennifer Habrych at 314 LaFortune or 309 Haggar. For more information, call Jennifer at 631-4 540. 
Applications are due by Friday, October 15, 1993. 

Its lapse is in stark contrast to Democrats' repeated efforts to create the program and renew it during 1991 and 1992, often in the face of opposition from President Bush. Democrats used the issue dur­ing the presidential campaign to cast Bush as uncaring about suffering at home. 
In an embarrassment for Democrats, the extra benefits expired at a time when there are more long-term unem­ployed workers than there were when the program was created in November 1991. 
According to the latest Labor Department statistics, there were 1.7 5 million people last month who were jobless at least 26 weeks. That's 20.5 per­cent of all unemployed work­ers. 




THEOAK ROOM 
DAILY LUNCH AND DINNER SPECIALS 
r---------------------:~~:~~~~-!.~~~----------------­
\_______________!_::_~-~~~:::_~~~-~~------_________________.__~ 
DAILY MENU LINE-631-7518 WEEKLY MENU AVAILABLE THROUGH GOPHER 
Located in South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Bwiness Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the· policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edi'tor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Cornmemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of the Notre Dame/Sainc Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

JOSH OZERSKY 
page 9 
I, FARRINGTON 
Revival of 70s anthems a response to alternative rock 
I rented a rotten movie the other night-"Singles," with Bridget Fonda. (You just can't beat Bridget Fonda, for my money). The movie was worth­less enough, but there was one lipe that struck me. Matt Dillon, as a Seattle rocker, asks his band rhetorically, "Where are the anthems of today? Where is the 'Misty Mountain Hop,' the 'Smoke on the Water,' the 'Iron Man' of today?" 
An easy question to answer: they haven't gone anyplace. Turn on your car radio, and you are as likely to hear some­thing like "Sweet Home Al­abama" as any song from "In l'tero." More so, in fact, since the the recent wave of 70s nos­talgia. There are actually bands around today (Spin Doctors, Blues Traveller, Phish, etc.) whose only purpose is to try and recreate "the 70s sound." 
The R.E.M. era officially came to a close on the '93 MTV Awards, when Michael Stipe, made up as the Notre Dame leprechaun, attempted to launch an anthem-style arena rocker that Quiet Riot would've been ashamed of. But you can't blame the man. All eyes have turned backwards. 
And for good reason. There is something to be said for those endlessly replayed classic songs, those Crazy Trains, Back in Blacks, Comfortably Numbs, Freebirds and the like. There is a certain largeness of spirit in those songs, a certain expan­siveness, that you just don't get in our so-called "alternative" rock. 
At the same time, these an­thems are as familiar, as comfy and domestic, as grand­mother's quilt. This combina­tion, of familiarity and grandeur, is not an easy one to 
DOONESBURY 
living in my memories of things 
~ ~ past. Most of us who went to high school in the mid-to late-80s missed the punk moment, which petered out about 1983. After that date, and right up until the present, what do you have? A bottomless jumble of styles: thrash, hardcore, tech­no-funk, rap, hip-hop, roots rock, grunge, industrial, and on and on. It doesn't all sound alike, but it's all marginal in the exact same way. The one thing all these subgenres have in com­mon is their self-consciousness. Even the best of these bands, like the Chili Peppers, seem to think of themselves as doing something new and valuable, or at least used to. My attitude toward this is what you might call negative. No good can come of "new music." I'm all for experimen­tation, if it's Jimi Hendrix or Jerry Garcia doing the experi­menting, in 1967. Those guys did it when it needed to be done. They went as far as there was to go. After that, all that remained was refinement and inflation, which brought us the glories of the 70s. The style of rock music had been established; the unpre­dictability and subversiveness of the early days was safely ex­

turn away from. The Seattle sound has nothing remotely comparable to offer. Who over the age of 18, if they were ex­iled to a desert island with one CD, would take "Ten" or "Nevermind" instead of "Bat Out of Hell" or "Led Zeppelin IV"? You would take a classic album, if only for the emotional resonance it brings, the sense of community. 
The question is not a trivial one; when you graduate from tinct; big corporations owned college, you'll find that seedy all the musicians, and paid apartment in a distant city them immense salaries to pro­more islandlike than you may duce platinum records with a care to admit. minimum of risk. Heaven! 
I personally think that Nir­Since everyone was working vana owes a lot more to Iron more or less in the same style, Maiden than they do to Black and since there wasn't much Flag, but even admitting the talent to around, the only way hardcore credentials of these to get better was to get bigger. "alternative" bands, it's hard to We needed double, then triple take them into one's bosom. I albums. Then concept albums really don't want Henry Rollins with operatic stories. Then al-
m::t!Y, PWPL&,L£T's R&V/&IIJ AF&MAL& OFF/­AFFIRMATIV&.HOW AN OFFIC£1< ANIJA G&N­C&R.. ':iT13P3 0/JT 
HOW{)() YOU 
Tl&MAN C/JNVUC'E> HIM5ttf=AT OFAN&VAlOR.. 
MAK&H&r<
A 5CC/AL. FUNC­/OIAT fXJ YOU[)(}<' 
ACOUAINT­
TION/ YOU IN -......_ 
TH& ~~t.;..( ANC£'? ------­8ACJ<I 
bums with multitrack dubbing, and strings, and marching bands, and power ballads (Homer nods.) "The Wall"! "Born to Run"! "Hotel Califor­nia"! This was the gilded age of rock and roll, and I miss it vi­cariously, and all the more for that. 
Therefore, I'm all for this 70s revival. It's plainly a response to the alternativization of rock music in the 90s, but it has merits anywhere we feel op­pressed by fastidiousness, smallness, and parochialism. When I want grungy music, I'll get it from "Rust Never Sleeps," without all the boasting. When I want self-parody in the grand 
'Atthe same time, 
these anthems are as familiar, as comfy as grandmother's quilt. This combination of familiarity and grandeur, is not an easy one to turn away from. The Seattle sound has nothing remotely comparable to offer.' 
tradition, I'll get it from "Bat Out of Hell," with heroism, and without all that idiotic sam­pling. When I want mandolins and stylized rusticity, the Jerry Garcia Band will suit me fine. 
Youth is wasted on the young. Ah, to be a boy again! 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in History. His article on underground comics ap­pears in the current issue of Zone. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU HAVIIN'T 
UM...GRAB 
OON&TH& 
Ht3R.FROM 
R&A!JING,
813HIN!J? 
HA V/3 Y(){),
I 5AIWR.? 
"I'm the Connie Francis of 
rock''n ro11". 
Elton john Entertainer 
r 
I 
I 
I 
I 
BY ELISABETH HEARD Assistant Accent Editor 
Everyone needs help once in a while. Whether it's with homework, or just lending a helping hand, most depend on another human being at some point in time. 
Steve Green, Jeanne Fitzgerald, Brian Pecson and Jean-Claude Davidson are four individuals who willingly spend their time to help others in need. They have all reached out to their fellow Notre Dame stu­dents assisting them when nec­essary. 
"It makes me feel good," said freshman Steve Greene, who reads to Lori Miller, a blind stu­dent, from their history class textbook. "It's nice to help out." 
Depending on the amount there is, Greene reads to Miller anywhere from one night a week to four nights a week. 
"We can get through about forty pages in one hour," said Greene. "It's amazing because she just listens, and doesn't record it." 
Freshman Brian Pecson also reads to Lori, averaging about one hour per week. "I saw in the hall notes that she needed a reader, so I called her," said Pescon. 
---~----.. ----­
page 10 The Observer • ACCENT Wednesday, October 13, 1993 

~ 
a tns t 
Students lend a helping hand 
spends some of her free time helping others, assisting in the feeding of sophomore Dawn Parkot, who is confined to a wheelchair. 
"I just went down to her room and asked her if shP -"'~0d someone to help her eat," said Fitzgerald, "and she said yes." 
Fitzgerald feeds her lunch on Thursday at 12:15, and dinner on Friday at 5:30. 
"We live in the same dorm, so I just go down to her room and we go to the dining hall," said Fitzgerald. "I ask her what she wants, I get it, and then I feed it to her." 
Jean-Claude Davidson, a sophmore, helps Alex Montoya, who is missing both of his arms and one leg. 
"I first met him last year at the door to the Freshman Year of Studies building," said Davidson. "lie was trying to open the door and I saw him struggling. I asked him if I could get !the door] for him, and he said, 'yeah'." 
Over the summer, Davidson would help Montoya do certain things. "I would sometimes help him get dressed and get his food. I also cut his hair. Sometimes he needs help with his books. He pretty much does stuff for himself," said 

The University has offered to Davidson. ter doing it everyday, but I still pay people to read to Miller, feel good. I'm helping my since she does not have many All four of these generous brother." braille textbooks. students find that there is "If I had a horrible time, I 
Greene, however, does not something wonderful in the wouldn't be doing it," said receive any money for his people they help. Pescon. "But it's fun to be with efforts. "I don't want to get "It takes a lot of guts and her because Lori is really cool." paid," Greene said. courage for a person who is He laughed, ''I'm having a Roommates Dawn Parkot and Terri Dundon relax while watching television 
Senior Jeanne Fitzgerald also blind to go off to college," said blast." 

Montoya looks to facilitate 


Students 
By ALEX MONTOYA
discussion about disabled students 
Accent Writer 

By LAUREL FABIANO Montoya. "They're sort of a Jeckyll and Hyde fig­
Maryann Stopha cam Accent Writer ure," Montoya said. 
Dame faced with the 
lie mentioned the difficulties he had with the 
freshman year, com Alex Montoya, a ND student born without both university last winter when he asked them to 
special needs as a u'"'...""~ arms and his right leg, is very willing to talk provide him with a golf cart to use in the ice and 
The outgoing sopho about himself and emphasizes how important it snow. "They seem sympathetic but are not real 
born with cerebral pa is for students to be curious and to ask questions swift." 
lower body, a conditi about students with disabilities here at Notre Montoya noted that his rector had been espe­
affects her nervous sy Dame. cially helpful. To date he has installed a safety 
causes her to walk with "We have a lot to share and are eager to share mat in the shower, replaced the round door 
limp. She knew this it," he said. knobs with handles, and set up a ramp and au­
doubly tough to travel He described this as "just God's will," as his tomatic door openers outside of St. Ed's. 
out campus, especially mother used no alcohol, drugs, or medications In addition, the maintenance department has 
day. during her pregnancy. rigged a remote control similar to a garage door 
However, Stopha was At the time of his birth, the doctors called him opener for his room. 
idated but was instead a "freak case" because his condition was so rare Through the Office of University Computing, 
ched" about coming to and uncommon, according to Montoya. They he has been provided with a computer keyboard 
She was confident that gave him only a few hours to live. with special keys which make typing easier. 
be support services for Montoya miraculously survived and at the age The facilities in most buildings· are adequate 
that she could rely on. of four moved to California to live with some for him, according to Montoya, and are especial­
figured, a school of thi family members to escape the harsh treatment ly good in Debartolo Hall and LaFortune Student 
stature must surely ha he received in Colombia because of his disabili­Center. ''I'm a lot more concerned about stu­
ment, which disabled st ties. dents in wheelchairs," he said. 
depend on to ensure His parents, brothers, and sisters, whom he He has several recommendations to make the 
needs are met. 
hasn't seen since 1984, still reside in Columbia. campus more friendly to the disabled: more dis-The Observer/Dave Hungeling Unfortunately, thisabled-accessible water fountains; an elevator in Alex Montoya enjoys walking through campus just asAccording to Montoya, it is difficult to be away pletely the case. When from his family, but it would be much more dif­the administration building; more ramps and _e_v.,..ery-'-o_n_e_e_ls_e_d_o_e_s_.____________ 
Stopha discovered that ficult to stay in Columbia. He now has a "family" new door handles. pie do." disabled services here at Notre Dame, a group of very close He has also been working with student body Montoya says having faith in God small committee of friends that, he says, are like brothers to him. president Frank Flynn and a committee of other keeps him from getting down. who are in charge of 
"The help and understanding I receive from disabled students on campus to push the univer-"God made me this way for a reason," he said. students. After a ye the students at Notre Dame really gives validity sity to make these and other changes. "I've learned what I can accomplish trusting in with this committee to the term 'Notre Dame community,'" said Montoya says his greatest obstacle at Notre Him instead of my physical abilities." issues, she now feels Montoya, a resident of St. Ed's Hall. Dame is not something physical, but rather, Someday Montoya hopes to teach high school are not taken care of in 
"The students here treat me fabulously,'' he dealing with people's fears -mostly their fears social studies. "I think it would be just awesome expected they would. said. Montoya said that he rarely has many diffi­of being curious or of offending him by asking to work with kids like that," he said. "I believe the univers culties because so many students are willing to questions. Finally, Montoya said each day of his life is a well, but there just art help him when he needs it. "I always thank students for asking questions," memorable one. He is constantly learning about qualified people helpin
Montoya gave much of the credit to his closest he said. "It takes guts." dealing with people and about faith. now," she says. "We neec friends. "They're great. They treat me so nor­He stressed how important it is to get to know He thinks he can "appreciate life's challenges department with peopl•mally and really make me feel accepted." the real person inside and to look past their out-and victories a lot more than others can." trained in working wit 
How the university treats him, though, is ward appearances. For him, "it's the little things people take for abled." sometimes a different story, according to "The person I am has nothing to do with these granted that are so satisfying," like lifting hooks. I get hurt and lonely the way other peo-weights at the Rockne Memorial. 
Greene. "I give her all the cred­it in the world." 
"She told me I have to teach her how to wind surf," said Pescon, "and she's serious." 
"I always look forward to see­ing her [Dawn].·" said Fitzgerald. "She has a lot more personality than people think. I love it; she's her own person. It's almost like I'm not helping her at all." 
As demonstrated many times before, in countless service pro­jects and numerous donations, the spirit of voulnteerism and the desire to aid another human is alive in many Notre Dame students. 
"At Notre Dame there are a lot of people willing to help," said Greene. "I don't think that it would be the same at every university. I've gotten a positive reaction from my section, and they've encouraged me." 
By helping others, these stu­dents find that they feel good not only about doing the deed, but also about themselves. 
"I feel grateful that I can help someone," said Greene. "Being able to help is nice, and it also makes me feel good about my­self." 
"It makes me feel good," said Davidson. "Over the summer sometimes I would get tired af­
Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer • ACCENT page 11 
a 

0 

s 

Parkot overcotnes obstacles to just be 'nortnal' 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON Pasquerilla East, and attending capped people. "They have Assistant Accent Editor home football games. done a real good job with the AL -.111es Parkot needs the as-dorm. Dawn has·a remote con­College life for Dawn Parkot, sistance of aids, most of whom trol to automatically open the a sophomore from Morristown, are students. Parkot is a Math doors to the dorm and her NJ confined to a motorized major and with the help of aids room," said Dundon. Because wheel chair, is pretty normal. to perform the mechanical wheelchairs take up more This may seem like an odd tasks of studying is an above space the university attached a 
double room to a quad so that ­
'The main thing to remember about Dawn is she's Parkot could have roommates. just like the rest of us. She wants to go to SYR's From a young age Parkot's 
grandmother used to tell her
and formals, graduate on time, get married and have 
stories of her grandfather's 
kids and she's not going to let this stop her.' day's at Notre Dame and these tales sparked in her a desire to
Terri Dundon 
attend college at Notre Dame. statement, but to spend time average student. Aids read to "I had always dreamed about talking with her and her room­Parkot and she dictates papers coming here," she said. mate, Terri Dundon, entails to them. Tutors also help her Parkot's plans for the future dealing with the laughing, the further with her studies. are uncertain, but they do in­private jokes and the constant "The students are great. clude the possibility of working interruptions that are found in Some of the professors don't on a post graduate degree at dorm rooms across the campus. believe the work is mine," said the University of Stanford. 
Parkot has cerebral palsy and Parkot. Because aids help with is legally blind. She com­homework and test taking she "The main thing to remember municates through speech, has had to deal with a few in­about Dawn is she's like the which is difficult to compre­conveniences. For example, rest of us. She wants to go to hend for those who are not Parkot took a math test last SYRs and formals, graduate on used to it, and through a word week and would have gotten a time, get married and have kids board. Although legally blind, 100 percent, but her aid acci­and she is not going to let this she can read large print and dently marked the wrong box, stop her," said Dundon. has an uncanny ability to rec­so she only got a 95 percent. ognize people by their silhou­"Last year I had a teacher Just like everybody else, ettes. who didn't believe that the Parkot went through the same 
Parkot is able to participate work on a test was all mine. I Notre Dame admissions pro­in most campus events despite asked him to come and see for cess. Just like everybody else her disabilities. Between class, himself me work on the test _ Parkot is expected to go to class studying and extra-curricular he didn't come," said Parkot. and meet the same curriculum activities she has little time to According to Parkot and requirements we all do. And waste. Her activities include Dundon, the university has just like everybody else she has 
The Observer/Dave Hungeling 
being one of three formal com­done a fair job of making the the same aspirations of a happyof doing their homework. Parkot is a resident of Pasquerilla East. missioners for her dorm, campus accessible to handi-and fulfilling future. 
work to improve disabled services 

Miller battles through 
According to Angie Chamblee, a more frustrations: She wanted to Freshman Year of Studies academic try out for band but "the director 
challenges
advisor and member of the commit­threw a fit ." Then she wanted to to Notre tee, this group was formed in the try out for the equestrian team but 
By MAIT CARBONE said Miller. "They're willing and open to 
llenges of early '80's by former Dean Emil a new rule stating that each com­
Accent Writer change, and that's what it takes." 
with her Hoffman to work with those desig­petitor must have 20/40 vision "I try to be as independent as possi­person. nated as having "special needs." A eliminated Miller. The rule states 
Lori Miller, from Warsaw, Indiana, ble," said Miller. "You don't want to 
list of students is presented by Bob that a medical letter may clear the 
has been blind since the age of two as infringe on someone else. It really kills 
Mundy, associate director of admis­competitor, but Miller wonders why the result of surgery to remove her can­me to ask sometimes." 
sions, to Chamblee and Associate the rule even stands if a letter can 
cerous retina. For Miller, this independence is mani­
Provost Oliver Williiams. Chamblee negate it. It is especially aggravat­
She has not let this stop her, though. fested in the many extracurricular activ­
handles all incoming freshmen and ing to her because she has been an Throughout her life, Miller has not ities in which she participates. 
Williams handles transfers. accomplished equestrian competitor 
shrunk from the daunting challenges During high school, Miller competed in 
After meeting with these admin­for over two years. 
that have constantly sprung up in her several 4-H and other open equestrian
istrators early in the school year, "The university needs someone 
life. meets, in both the jumping and show
the students are informed that experienced who will resolve situa­She attended a public high school, riding divisions. 
Chamblee will handle any academic tions like that," says Miller, who 
rather than a private school for the dis­A flute player since the eighth grade, 
matters while Williams is available also rollerblades, swims, and has 
abled; she is proficient in several forms she has attempted to join the ND
for any other problems that arise. been asked to compete in the U.S. 
of the complex language of Braille; she Marching Band, only to be told by
Chamblee says the committee is disabled ski team's qualifying races. 
plays the flute, rides in equestrian Luther Snavely, director of the band,
"very enthusiastic" about helping In response to these problems, 
meets, and competes in roller dancing that she would not be allowed to join
special-needs students, but certain­Miller has looked into starting a 
events. because he was concerned for her safe­
ly understands their frustrations. "I support group which would allow 
''I've always been a well-rounded per­ty, citing two band members who were
would like for us to have a central disabled students to vent their frus­son," said Miller. "That's what keeps me tackled at a game last year. 
area where all special-needs stu­trations and network amongst each going-doing the things I like to do." 
dents can get quick answers from a other to solve problems. A Harvard 
Yet another challenge voluntarily "He didn't know how to handle it,"
professional who has a background graduate, who is also blind, is work­
taken up by Miller is her choice to said Miller. "He kind of panicked when I 
with legal and practical knowl­ing with Miller for a cause the 
attend Notre Dame, forsaking other said I wanted to be in the band." She
edge." freshman feels is necessary. 
more disabled-friendly campuses. "I had only wanted to play on the sidelines, 
The need for a specialized de­"Something has to be done, " she 
wanted to go somewhere where they along with the alternate band members. 
partment was underscored when says, "because things have been 
didn't have anything established," said ''I'm concerned because [Snavely's]
freshman Lori Miller encountered passed back and forth in the com­
Miller. "That's just the way I am." hung up on my safety, and not how I 
numerous difficulties within her mittee, when what we really need is Even amidst these numerous chal­play," said Miller. 
first month on campus. Miller, who our own department." 
lenges, challenges which would thor­Miller would like to make a career out
has been blind since she was two­Both Stopha and Miller are con­
oughly frustrate an average person, of helping the disabled. Although like
and-a-half, chose Notre Dame over vinced a disabled services depart­
Miller has kept an upbeat attitude, and most freshmen, her major is undecided,
Stanford because the challenge of ment is not a luxury, it is a necessi­
is enjoying the beginning of her college in the future she sees herself as either a
coming to a school with little experi­ty. "In this day and age what Notre 
years. physical rehabilitation therapist for the 
ence with the disabled was enticing Dame is offering, in comparison to 
"I love NO. The atmosphere here is disabled, or a disabilities coordinator 
to her. Miller did not expect, how­other schools, is simply not plausi­great," said Miller. "The students are and counselor at an university. 
ever, that this inexperience would ble," says Stopha. 
wonderful -they're willing to learn For now, Miller will continue her
lead to problems like asking for spe­Miller agrees, "The American 
[about her disability]; they're not hung efforts to increase awareness about 
who are cial orientation around the campus Disabilities Act says we need to 
up on my disability." issues facing the disabled, to improve
the dis-before the year started and being have a certified coordinator, and we 
Miller also says that her professors the conditions on campus for disabled
informed that no one was available. don't. We need a coordinator and a 
have been very flexible in accommodat­students, and to overcome the obstacles
After these haggles, Miller faced department just for ourselves." 
ing her needs. "Their flexibility was one placed before her, God-given and other­of the reasons I decided to come to NO," wise. 
ACCE-NT 
page 12 Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
Learning through experience 
Urban Plunge educates students about inner city poverty 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Accent Wrirer 
The method is direct experience -48 hours of seeing, smelling, hearing and living the life of the inner city. The objective is a deeper awareness of some of America's most complex and critical problems, the transformation of poverty from a media event to a collection of meaningful, personal stories. 
-
The name is Urban Plunge -the unique experiential learning course offered to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students over the Christmas break each year. As its name suggests, the program involves a brief but intense immersion in the life of urban areas across the nation. Participants spend two days observing, and sometimes working directly with, individuals, parishes and agencies that strive to meet the needs of the poor and homeless on a daily basis. 
Now the largest of the Center for Social Concerns' (CSC) experiential learning seminars, the Urban Plunge began with two students in 197 4 as a collaborative effort initiated by the staff at the CSC. Last year, 373 students par­ticipated in 53 cities at almost 80 differ­
certain degree of suburban security, never really live it." To counter this feel­with them. 
ent sites. Sue Cunningham, the coordi­safety becomes a priority in considering ing, Krueger's group made a conscious "I think the CSC opened that door fornator of the Urban Plunge program for the Urban Plunge. Cunningham and the effort to separate and speak individually me, making me more aware," saidthe esc. cited both the format and the directors of the program, as well as the to the guests at the kitchens and shel­Krueger, who was both impressed andnature of the experience as reasons for 
individual site hosts, recognize these ters they visited. frustrated by the scope of Minneapolis's its appeal. 
fears, and consider them a necessary Students from all colleges and disci­network of services. "You're so deep part of the immersion experience. "Yes, plines who participate in the Urban into it initially, that it creates an in­you will be in bad neighborhoods, but Plunge have a history of returning to terest, a drive to know what put these that's because these people have to live campus with a renewed interest in ser­men and women and children here." there. They are bad neighborhoods vice work, and particularly, the prob­Another student, who participated in 
'1had heard from a lot of peo­
ple that it helps you asso­comprised mostly~at least 95 percent­lems of the homeless population in the plunge two years ago in the South ciate faces with homelessness of good people," insisted Cunningham. American cities. Bronx, an area particularly ripe with ra­and urban problems.' Steve Krueger, a senior from Defiance, Despite the frustrations and problems cial tension at that time, remarked on 
Ohio, chose to do his plunge in encountered on the plunge, participants how frustrating it was to be restricted 
Diane Regitz Minneapolis last January. He, along continue to return feeling inspired, con­by time, and therefore, to spend most of with Cunningham, noted the importance cerned, and motivated to action. Regitz the 48 hours observing the situation, of being cautious, because the potential noted how impressed she was by the ex­instead of actively participating in it. for danger is always a reality of city life. citement and creativity of the people she "It's the kind of thing that you leave andPrecisely because it involves a short Krueger remained adamant, however, met, and the programs Atlanta had just say, 'God, I've got to do something,"'time commitment, Cunningham said, the that safety concerns should not deter made available to its population. "I he said. 
Plunge attracts students who desire to any student from participating. would definitely say it was hopeful," she Orientation and post-service reflection
involve themselves in service over 
Aside from a concern for physical concluded. are major components of the UrbanChristmas break. In addition, the pro­safety, a different sense of fear also Regitz had felt directed towards the Plunge experience, as they are withgram allows many Notre Dame students became a part of Krueger's learning ex­homeless in her service concerns before most of the CSC's experiential learning to experience a lifestyle to which they perience. He explained that many stu­the plunge, and her concerns were fur­programs, including the Appalachianhave had little previous exposure. 
dents, upon entering the inner city envi­ther ignited by her two-day immersion Seminar and Summer Service Projects. 
"They just had no idea in the past," ronment, must deal with the fear of in­in Atlanta. Krueger, who had done After a preparation session includingsaid Cunningham, regarding the shock truding, of appearing to be looking down some direct service work with the home­inspirational talks, details of the reali­
many students encounter upon their 
on the individuals and society they are less in Toledo, Ohio, felt that the Plunge ties and safety concerns that will nec­immersion. The Plunge allows men and 
observing. helped him alter his focus from wanting essarily arise at each site, and encour­women to witness what, for many of "It was really evident that we were out to help alleviate suffering immediately, agement from students and staff, partic­them, has been little more than a prob­of place," he explained. "We were living to wanting a better understanding of the ipants return to their homes forlem defined by articles and statistics, not that life for a day, even though we could issues and the possible ways to deal Christmas break. The Urban Plunge oc­by the names and faces of those who curs during a two-day time period cho­suffer. 

sen according to their own schedules"I had heard from a lot of people that and the schedules of any other studentsit helps you associate faces with home­participating in the chosen city. 
lessness and urban problems," said 
Upon returning to campus for the sec­Diane Regitz, a Notre Dame student who ond semester of the school year, stu­joined 11 other students for an Urban dents write reflection papers and joinPlunge in Atlanta, Georgia in January of with students from other sites, as well1993. Regitz noted how successful the as a faculty member, to discuss the con­program was in accomplishing this goal, cerns that arose for them on the plunge.
despite its astonishingly short duration. 
Regitz, who is a senior in Farley Hall,Some of the participants of the 1993 commented on the valuable experienceAtlanta plunge stayed overnight in a of sharing her observations with fellowwomen's shelter, where they were given students, and namely, of realizing thatthe opportunity to converse with guests. 
despite the different programs and"That really made an impression on 
agendas of each site, participants "hadme," said Regitz, who noted how impor­such similar experiences." 
tant it was for her to speak to the indi­Information meetings will be held onvidual guests about their own goals and Tuesday, Oct. 19, at 6:30 p.m. in thehopes for the future. 
Hagar Lounge at Saint Mary's, and onThe agenda of each Plunge is set by Wednesday, Nov. 3, at 5:30 p.m. at thethe hosts and guides in each city; there­CSC. Applications, now available at thefore, students return to campus having 
CSC, are due by Nov. 5.
acquired many different perspectives on This year, Urban Plunges are sched­life in their city of choice. Last year, the uled to occur between Jan. 2 and Jan. 8,Atlanta group was guided by a worker 1994. All interested students are en­for one of the agencies in the area, who couraged to attend information meet­
brought the students on walking and ings, or contact Cunningham at 631­
driving tours of the projects and inner 
5293, and take the frightening but
city of Georgia's largest city. They also worthwhile plunge into urban life. Inspent time speaking with seminarians, the words of Krueger, who continues toand a local minister whose church was study the issues and complexities ofvery involved in social action. 
homelessness, "You can't really under­For students who have spent most, if stand it from the outside." 
not all of their lives surrounded by a 

Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 287-4082 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259-8684. 
Need Business Cards? -call Adworks 1-6756 LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY!! 
Anybody interested in doing flood damage relief in Davenport, Iowa (Quad Cities area) over Fall Break call Frank at 277-9353. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: blue London Fog jacket with liner, around Oct. 1. Call Eric at 3376. 
FOUND: MULTI-STRAND BLUE BEADED FISHHOOK EARRING AROUND THE LAKES. CALL ANNE 284-5212. 
LOST: AT SENIOR BAR ROYAL BLUE NAUTICA JACKET IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 273-5910 
LOST: J-Crew Barn jacket(Brown) It was lost in late Sept. Please con­tact Mike at 634-1166 with any information. 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$ BRUNO'S NEEDS Drivers! Ill PT for Campus Deliveries. Call John 288-3320 $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$ 
$700/wk cannery workers; $4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish­ing industry now hiring for next summer. 11,000 openings. No exp. necessary. Free rm. & bd. These jobs go fastl Employment Alaska. 1­206-323-2672 
We need a Kegirator. Interested in selling us one. Please give us a call. 234-2793 
--ROOMATE WANTED­
FOR SPRING SEMESTER '94 @TURTLE CREEK, 5 MIN. FROM CAMPUS-cALL ED@273-9581 
WANTED: LOCAL REALTOR SEEKING HOSTESSES TO HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2-4 HOURS PER DAY, VARIOUS DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE REALTY 282-2351. 9-5 MON-FRI 
I need a ride to the Wash D.C. area for tall break. Will help with gas, tolls, etc. Call Christine x4867 
I need a ride to & from DC for break. Call1293. 
THE SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CORPORATION IS IN NEED OF GOOD SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS AT ALL LEVELS. APPLICANTS MUST HAVE COM­PLETED 60 CREDIT HOURS. INDIVIDUALS INTERESTED SHOULD APPLY BETWEEN 8:30 AM & 4:30PM MON.-FRI. AT THE: EDUCATION CENTER HUMAN RESOURCE DEPT. 1ST FLOOR 635 SO. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND 
FOR MORE INFO., CALL (219) 282-4160. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 ext 31 FREE TRIPS & CASH I Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama, Day1ona or Padre! CALL NOWI TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
2 PWites are looking for a ride to the DC area for fall break. We have gas $, toll $ and charming personal­ities x2147 
I need a ride to St. Louis for fall break after the USC game. I will 
help pay gas and tolls. Please call 
Tim at 4-1462 
Do You live near Georgetown or D.C.???? I need a ride for fall break-there and back. very friend­ly; like to drive; help with gas, tolls,etc. call Brian x3043 
Needed: up to 3 USC GA's. 
284-4397 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
FOR SALE 
KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK­FAST located 23 miles south of Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4 rooms, full breakfast -week-end getaway 219-586-7090 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­
Private. 
257-9101 
LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN. 
SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO 
CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­
PUS $225. M0.272-6306 
ROOMS FOR RENT, FURN,NEAR CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW.272-6306 
Seeking rommate to share house. 
$250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
Fern. r-mate needed IMMEDIATE­LY Gina 4-2372 
FOR RENT 
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Day1ona Room w/ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386 
SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT 284-5062 
SELLING FSU & BC TICKETS 
Lisa 232-4112 
One way Air to Atlanta. Leaves 
S. Bend on Oct 25. $98. Could negotiate car ride back to ND on 31st. Leave message 287-6850. 
FOR SALE: organic cornfed beef 
whole or half, raised in Noble 
County, Indiana and led only pure 
corn, pasture grass, mineral salt 
with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins, 
and limestone-filtered well water. 
Custom aged and cut at Yoders in 
Shipshewana, and delivered to 
your door. $1.80 pound hanging 
weight, with $25 deposit. 291­
1797 .... ."your steak in the country" 
TICKETS 
Need one USC ticket 
call Gennie at 288-5205 
I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL 
TIXS.272-6306 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY 
HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL 
JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. 
FSU TIX NEEDEDI!!IIIII CALL CRAIG @273-3942 PLEASEI! 
NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 
Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­1429 
I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162, 
(W) 201-992-8700 
Need 2 GAs for any home game 
Call Tim at 273-1757 
NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 
(MARK) 
NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. 
MUST HAVE!! CALL 272-7233. 
FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES. 
277-1659. 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC & FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­6183. 
We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO) 457-0486. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 
3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­9309 
Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers. 
Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta 
(404)396-8715. 
HELP!!! Need 10 tickets, yes 10 
tickets, so my Florida family can 
see ND beat FSU. 
Please call Kevin at 4-2265 
I NEED TIXS FOR PITT, USC AND BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEY!!! CALL AARON@ 271-2908 
Need 2 USC GA's 
Will pay $100 ea 
x1B6B 
DESPERATELY NEED ND-USC 
GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT 
287-4561 AFTER 6 PM. 
NEED USC GA'S FOR MY PAR­
ENTS. CALL JIM @ 289-6648. 
92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1-800-7 49-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 
FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616. 
PLEASE!I! I NEED FSU STU TIX. THERESA X2756 
Need 2 USC GA 
Maxx1088 
Need 4 USC GA's 
Call Jeff x2000 
NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DESI 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR 
FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097 
4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC 
2 FSU GAs x1 850 
I NEED FLORIDA ST. TIX STUDSorGA­call Tim x1230 
Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks 
Matt 232-3870 
WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL 
412-352-3216 
Desperate lifelong NO fan needs two Florida State/NO GA's. Will pay top dollar! Call 1-407-788-1582 after5pm. 
Please help me! 
Need 1 Florida State student ticket. 
Call Colleen at 273-5901. 
NEED 4 USC GA'S CALL DAN x3402 
NEED 6 GAs to ND vs. USC PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP! 
2 Notre Dame-BYU tickets 4 sell 40 yrd line call Lance@ (801)375­9264 6-7:30am or 6-11pm MST 
I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's call Beth@ X2615 
Seeking 1 ND vs. USC G.A. If you know of one please call Jocelyn x3842, thanks. 
WILL TRADE 3 USC GA'S + PRE­PAID HOTEL ROOM 2 NIGHT FOR 2 FLA ST GA'S CALL (618)2774481 DAYS 
(618)6327571 NIGHTS 
PLEASE!! NEED 2 USC ST. TIKS 
FOR BEST FRIENDS FROM 
HOME. 
EMILY x2337 
'86 Alum who endured futility with Faust is hoping to reach the heights with Holtz. Wants USC, FSU, and BC TIX. Please call Connie at 1­7336 or Connie/Dan at 219-874­4240. 
NEED 2 USC GAs 
Please call Tara at 4975 
Need 2 USC GA's call Brian x3467 
orx0577 
Need GA's for USC 
call Gary x1236. 
4SALE4SALE4SALE4SALE 
2 GA's for USC and FSU, BC 
best offer: 277-8017 
usc • usc • usc • usc 
CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the two lovely people who spawned me. Any home game. Will pay res­enable price. Heck, I'd even draw somethin' for ya. Call Jay at 271­1400 between 6-10 pm any night. 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's CALL JAMIE @ 273 -5910 
Stud booklet 4 Sale 
Ech 272-1451 
call btw. 4-10 p.m. 
HAVE: 8 USC GA-4 are on 50. 
Also, 2 BC GA on 50. 
NEED: FSU GA's. Trade or Cash. 
-Dan 273-Q986 
Football Tickets Notre Dame vs. 
BYU $125-$250 call Steve 801­
378-4373 or David 801-374-8939 
TICKETS ND VS BYU 4-SALE 801­375-5640 
NO ALUM needs several USC GAs. Please call (313)953-5572 after 7pm. 
FOR SALE -3 Notre Dame vs. BYU tickets. $200 each or best offer. (801 )371-5532. 
8 BYU TIX 50yd Row 14$500 Each OBO 8013739958 
I NEED 1 USC GA NICK x1777 
Desperate alum in DC need Fla 
State football tickets! Will pay big 
bucks. Call Tom collect after BPM 
703-768-8569 
ForSale!l!!!!! 
USC Student ticket for sale 
Will Deal 
Call Brian x3043 
I need 1 USC student ticket. 
Call Dave X3662 
4 SALE-2 FSU GA'S. BO by 
10/21. Call Rob @x1601. 
NEED 3 STUD. TIX FOR USC. JAY X1534 
4SALE 2 USC GAS 50 YD LN $100 EACH X4052 
NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND $$$!!!!CALL TOM 254-9013 
$$$$$1 NEED$$$$$$ 2-4 FSU GA'S 
& 4 BC STUDENT TIX $$ MONEY NO OBJECT$$ CALL CAROLYN 284-4356 
NEED 4-8 USC GA'S 
CALL JOE@ X1613 
2 FSU GA'S 4 SALE X4863 
HAVE 2 BC GAs, 1 USC & 1 BC STUD, $$$; NEED 2 USC GAs TRADE? Chris 271-7807 
I need 2 USC GAs! Please call Becca at 4876 
FOR SALE: 5 FSU student tickets. All together. Call Neil634-4417. 
Wanted -BYU vs NO tickets. Call 801-782-1543 
SALE 2 BC GA's $125 each x3666 
Best offer by Oct. 22 for 2 FSU GA's call Angie 284-5410 
BYU/ND Tickets Call Brett (801 )370-21 86 
Will trade USC GA's & cash for FSU tix. Call Jim 312-743-8932 
Alum needs to Trade BC GA's for USC GA's. Brian x1979 
I need two USC GA's Please call x1BB2 
SELLING STUD TIXBOOK BEST OFFER CALL@ 273-3140 AFTER 6 PM 
-1need GAs for the USC game-Please call Katie at 284-5447­
Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs for family. Please call Rich X-4499 
PERSONAL 
Sophomores I!! 
Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad, laughter and music in a country home for your baby. Please call Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 any1ime. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Loving Indiana medical profession­als eager to adopt newborn. Medical/Legal paid. Confidential. Call our home toll free to hear all about us. Jaci and John 1-BOQ-224­2429. 
Hate is not a family value. 
glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556 
SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your high school over break as SMC rep? Sign up-Admission Office. Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21 
5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge. 
Chosen a major yet? 
If you are a sophomore, you should consider it. Being declared gives you a DART time advantage. If you know what you want to declare, do it. If not, watch for further info on major counseling sessions spon­sored by Sophomore Class Council. 
3SWF(2 sr, 1 jr) looking for SYR dates for Sat, Oct 16; prefer 4 friends-no pressure; if you're daring enough to answer this ad yet nor­mal enough to hesitate, you're the dates we're looking for. Call our agent Beth @ x1810 by Thurs. Oct 14. 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­place in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369-2597 
HELPI I need a ride to D.C. for fall break. I shower regularly and am a decent conversationalist. If you can help, please call Ken at x4245 
FLOOD RELIEF '931!!111 
1) Salvation Army is DONATING boots. We'll take show sizes at next meeting: 9/19, 7pm, 126 DeBartolo. 
2) Checks ($50) DUE to Megan in Alum. Assc. by WED., OCT 13, 5PM! 
THE ROACH 
Dearest D. Enjoy this Delightful Day as you hit your second set of Double Digits! Your Destination (a real 10) Draws ever closer ... 
Be sure to wish Katie Adams a 
great 20th B-Day todayl 
Love, 
the 2nd floor Party Women 
ALMOST AS SCARY AS THE 
THOUGHT OF CO-ED HOUSING. 
COME TO THIS YEAR'S 
CARROLL HALL 
HAUNTED HOUSE 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15 
7:00 -10:30 
ONLY$2 
Trish, Pete, and Megan-­
Good luck tonightl Break a leg and make Rodney proudl Remember this before the show starts: 
Bibbity bobbity bought a bat 
Bibbity bobbity bought a ball 
Bibbity bobbity bought a bat and 
ball for Brian's birthday. 
Milk--it's what's for snack. 
Not only are his feet big, but so is 
his head. 
Are you having South Dining Hall 
over for soup? 
Happy Birthday, Johnl!l 
Urn ... am I retarded? -Turtle 
Bambi-­
Glad to see every1hing has cleared up for you. 
Whafs the magic word? It begins 
with a 'p' 
The floor is lava ... jump in our 
beds!!II 
Ubiquitous Tom--you are 
everywhere I 
I'm so hee-appyll 
Jamie, Nick, Tom, and Matt-
Are you ready for a great Friday 
night? 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
Phillies tired of down-to-the-wire victories 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Exactly seven years later, Len Dykstra did it again. 
In 1986, it was a ninth-inning home run that won Game 3 for the New York Mets against Houston. On Monday, it was a 1Oth-inning homer that gave the Phillies a 4-3 victory over Atlanta and a 3-2 lead in the NL playoffs after another heart­stopping ninth inning. 
"We're not supposed to be on the same field as Atlanta, ac­cording to some people." Phillies manager Jim Fregosi said, "but I think we've shown the last two days that we're a good club, a solid club and that we don't quit." 
Curt Schilling, who pitched eight shutout innings, couldn't Veterans Stadium for Game 6 on Wednesday. The Phillies will start Tommy Greene, rocked for seven runs in 2 1-3 innings in Game 2. Atlanta, on a two­game losing streak for the first time since Aug. 19-20, will start Greg Maddux, the Game 2 win­ner. 
"This isn't over by a long­shot," Dykstra said. "That's a very good team over there. It does no good to win three un­less you win the fourth." 
Dykstra, whose ninth-inning homer gave the New York Mets a dramatic 6-5 playoff victory over Houston on Oct. 11, 1986, drove a 3-2 pitch from Mark Wohlers over the right-center­field fence with one out in the lOth. The comparisons with seven years ago came quick. 
"This was even bigger to me," he said. "Back then, I was ago at Pittsburgh. If the Braves get by Game 6, Tom Glavine would start Game 7. 
"We're just going to send out our two best pitchers," said Steve Avery, who allowed two runs -one earned -and four hits in seven innings. "They have to beat two of the best pitchers in the league and that's tough to do." 
At the start, the other Phillies outfielders were the stars. Right fielder Wes Chamberlain's throw was relayed and caught Jeff Blauser trying to score in the first. Chamberlain then threw out Damon Berryhill try­ing to stretch a single to double in the second. 
Terry Pendleton, the batter before Berryhill, was denied when Pete Incaviglia, maligned for his defense, made a back­handed, diving catch in left. 
"I don't think we win the 
lncaviglia's fourth-inning fly to left for a three-base error and Chamberlain followed with a sacrifice fly. 
But that wasn't the biggest gaffe. The Phillies' defense came apart in the ninth on a play eerily reminiscent of Game 
1. With Philadelphia leading 3­0 after Darren Daulton's homer off Greg McMichael in the top of the inning, Schilling, trying to complete a four-hit shutout, walked Blauser. Batiste, who replaced Dave Hollins in the eighth, failed to come up with Gant's grounder to third. That was it for Schilling. 
"I gave everything I had after the seventh," Schilling said. "I was on adrenaline after that." 
In came Williams, also an in­stant disaster in Games 1 and 4. 
Fred McGriff singled on the first pitch to make it 3-1. David Justice's sacrifice fly to left pulled the Braves within a run. 
Then Terry Pendleton lined a single to center, moving McGriff to second. Up came Francisco Cabrera. It was his two-run sin­gle off Stan Belinda with two outs in the ninth that won Game 7 and the pennant for the Braves last year against Pittsburgh. 
Could it happen again? 
Almost. 
"I was just trying to hit the ball," Cabrera said. "I didn't have time to think about last year. If I had, I'd lose my con­centration." 
He bounced a two-hopper just past shortstop Kevin Stocker as McGriff scored the tying run and Pendleton sped to third. 
even talk about the ninth, it was so dramatic and turbulent. 
"I can't. There were so many things going through my mind," he said. 
For the third time in this bizarre series, Mitch Williams relieved with a lead and made a mess. For the second time, de­fensive replacement Kim Batiste made an error at third that allowed the Braves to come back and tie. 
It's been a perilous playoff for the Phillies. Wins aren't good enough unless they come after high-wire walks over disaster. The ninth was so tense that at times Schilling sat in the dugout with his head down and a towel around his head. 
"It was a combination of frus­tration and anxiety," he said, 
But he didn't have to worry. Once again, the Phillies held off the Braves just in the nick of time. So, despite being outscored 30-17 in the series, the Phillies moved within a game of their first World Series since 1983. 
The playoffs now return to just a kid trying to contribute in game if they don't make those any way that I could. I was in plays," Schilling said. "I came Ia-la land. This year, I've been out of the bullpen tonight and I one of the main guys since Day didn't feel too good. When they One, and I expect that of give you a boost like that, you myself." almost feel they deserve for you 
Atlanta, seeking to become to get them the ballgame." the first NL team to win three sraight pennants since the St. After John Kruk's RBI double Louis Cardinals from 1942-44, in the first put Philadelphia must win two in a row on the ahead, the Braves defense fal­road, just like it did two years tered. Ron Gant missed 
Senior Class Dinner at Barnaby's 
Thursday, October 14th 5:30pm 
$4.00 all you can eat 
*sponsored by the senior class 
Rivernena 
Entertainment, Inc. 
diamond dave Promotions Presents....Live In Concert. The Return of TOS Recording Artist 

GEORGE McGOVERN 
BE A STAR! 
Make your own music video! 

11am-5pm 


1972 Democratic Candidate for President
FR.EE! 
speaks on 
Just like last year's Fun Flicks: 
Turbulent Times: Vietnam and the United States' keep a video of the ex~
__.,. 
Role in the World Today
SUB: 
101 DeBartolo
crazy stuff and more-__:_!..)i1.~~ 

7 p.m. October 14 

Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Nittany Lions host Wolverines in PSU's 1OOOth game 
By KELLY P. KISSEL 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE 
The woods behind Joe Paterno's house provided the perfect retreat for the Penn State coach to walk around and daydream about coaching in the Rose Bowl. 
Now he has only Michigan on his mind. 
The seventh-ranked Nittany Lions host the 18th-ranked Wolverines on Saturday in Penn State's 1,OOOth football game. The contest also marks Penn State's first without John Sacca, who started the Lions' first three games. 
"There are about eight clubs in a position" to go to the Rose Bowl, Paterno said. "We've got six games to play. That's the farthest thing from my mind. 
"Sure, when we were talking about going into the Big Ten and I would walk around in back of my house, in the woods, I'd dream about being in Pasadena, but that's a long time ago since I've done any of that stuff," Paterno said. 
"Right now that's a long way from my thoughts," he said. 
"My thoughts are strictly about figuring how to do a job against Michigan." 
Saturday's matchup isn't nearly the game it was origi­nally touted to be. Most figured both Penn State and Michigan would be undefeated and ranked in the Top 10. Penn State is 5-0, 2-0 in the Big Ten after a week ofT. Michigan is 3­2 and 1-1 and coming ofT a loss to Michigan State. 
"As far as we are concerned, it's still a very, very big football game. It's the first of six straight Big Ten games, a situa­tion we've never been in," Paterno said. 
"Any advantage we think we might have (from a week om is offset by the fact that Michigan got licked and will come down here as a very emotional foot­ball team," he said. 
Penn State on-and-off deci­sions to redshirt freshman quarterback Wally Richardson are off again now that Sacca has left the team for good. Sacca, who started the season, wasn't comfortable as a backup to Kerry Collins and left the team after its 70-7 victory over Maryland. 

Happy 2200 Birthday 
Stemmer 
(just a little late) 
Have a Great Senior Year 
Lots of Love,
\ 
Dad, Mom, Tracey, Sunny, .··~ Doogie II & Slinky
'"''"l 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON 
Michigan's loss to Michigan State only confirmed what Bill Mallory already knew. 
The Big Ten championship is anybody's guess, the Indiana coach said Monday. 
"Looking at the entire league, a lot of things can happen be­tween now and the last ball game. I felt that going into con­ference play and that's the way I feel now. It'll be an exciting race," he said during his week­ly teleconference. 
Ohio State, Penn State and Wisconsin, all 2-0 in the Big Ten and 5-0 overall, lead the conference. Michigan State (1­0, 3-1) is a half-game behind, followed by Indiana (2-1, 5-1), Michigan (1-1, 3-2) and Illinois (1-1, 1-4). 
The Hoosiers have this week 


Indiana in thick of Rose Bowl hunt 
off before playing at Northwestern (0-2, 2-3) on Oct. 23. 
"It was a good win, a win we certainly needed," Mallory said of Saturday's 16-10 victory over Iowa. "We finished the first half of the season and it was a nice way to come out. 
"Our players played with a lot of effort .... We could have been more productive. That's kind of where we are as a team. We need to get ourselves sounder in all phases. We're at a point where we don't dare level. We've got to evaluate ourselves and where we have to improve ourselves and become more productive." 
Mallory said Indiana's rush­ing game is continuing to improve, and he praised the play of junior Brett Law, who rushed for 140 yards and a touchdown after J ermaine Chaney left with a sprained ankle. 
Law had carried only four times for minus-one yard all season. 
"If Chaney was healthy, I'd go right back to Chaney with Law coming in," Mallory said. "But we'll have to wait and see. Those are my top two right now. They're both going to play and Law's going to be in there playing a lot more. 
"He came in and showed himself," Mallory said, aware that Law, the Hoosiers' leading rusher last year with 541 yards, was very unhappy with his limited playing time this season. 
"When he plays that way, that's when he's effective, and that's when I like him. He came in and had something to prove and wasn't in a good humor, and that's great. He went out and turned it loose, and when he's that way, then that's when he's effective,'' Mallory said. 
He said he would continue us­ing Chaney, Law and Michael Batts, along with redshirt fresh­man Shane Thomas. 

Beer conta1ns alcohol. Alcohol is a drug. Alcohol is the number one drug problem in this country. Not marijuana. Not cocaine. Alcohol. Get the point 2 
.\Jakr tlrt rlwirr to makP a clra11gr. 
The truth about alcohol. 
The next time someone tells you it's only beer, think about these facts: 
1. 
A can of beer contains the same amount of alcohol as a shot of whiskey. (1) 

2. 
If one of your parents is an alcoholic, you risk of developing alcoholism is four times greater. (2) 

3. 
Alcohol plays a major role in campus-related problems, mcludmg: 69% of damage to residence halls 64% of violent behavior on campus 34% of academic problems, and 25% of dropouts. (3) 

4. 
Drinking and driving is the leading cause of deat~ for young .people. 

5. 
Health conscious? Virtually every organ system 1n the body rs damaged by alcohol. 


Sourc!~ls;Youth and Alcohol: A National survey, Drinking habits, Access, Attitudes an.d Knowledge' Office of the Inspector General, June 1991. 2 Children of Alcoholics Foundation,"Children of Alcoholics: A Review of the L1terature' 3 Ernest Boyer, President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teachmg. 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 1993 
Iowa finds itself in basement of Big 10 
a problem," Fry told reporters "They're good young men. against the Illini even though had been suspended. He clari­at a news conference. "You They're learning. It just doesn't he's listed in the two-deep ros­fied those comments Tuesday. ought to see all the mail that I come easy," he said. "It just so ter. Hartlieb was suspended get: 'Congratulations, coach.' happens we caught three of the indefinitely beginning with last "I wasn't furious in regards 'Nice going.' better Big Ten teams right off Saturday's game at Indiana to the penalty being assessed. 
"Next day, letters comes in: the bat." after being charged Oct. 3 with I'm a disciplinarian. I'm a great 'Coach, I've got a play for you.' "I really feel sad that we lost public intoxication and disor­believer that if you're going to It may have 15 players on the three Big Ten games, but I derly conduct. dance, you've got to pay the fid­team. It might have four. You haven't lost faith in my football dler," Fry said. hear those people on the call-in team whatsoever," Fry said. "I would anticipate either the "If they told me on Monday shows, but you don't get it in "It's tough on me, but that's athletic department or the uni­that John couldn't be there, we writing. I get it in writing." life. A lot of schools go through versity having a release or could have snapped somebody 
Fry was asked if any of the this every cotton-pickin' year. statement on John's situation in," he said. "He feels terrible suggestions "trip a wire" in his sometime this week," Fry said. about it. We all do, especially head. "But it's going to turn one of Hartlieb, a 6-foot-2, 225-with all the headlines and pub­
"It trips a wire-there's a lot these weeks." pound junior, pleaded guilty to licity, but we understand the of sick people in the world. It Iowa takes on Illinois (1-4 the charges but was suspended news media. I mean, that sells just confirms my suspicion," he overall, 1-1 Big Ten) this two days before the Indiana papers." answered. Saturday in the Hawkeyes' contest when officials learned it The university's athletic 
Fry appeared in a good mood Homecoming game at Kinnick was his second offense. board adopted a rule in 1989 despite his team being 0-3 in Stadium. Should Iowa lose, it Hartlieb also pleaded guilty to a that athletes receive counseling the conference for the first time will be the first time since 1973 public intoxication charge on after a first offense involving in his 15 years at Iowa. In be­that the Hawkeyes started Nov. 26, 1991, in Iowa City. alcohol and be suspended if a tween topics, he defended the league play 0-4. Following Iowa's 16-10 loss to second incident occurs. Hawkeyes for much of the news It's uncertain whether line­the Hoosiers last week, Fry said Fry says the policy needs a conference. backer John Hartlieb will play he was furious that Hartlieb second look. 
OFFICE OF RECREATIONAL SPORTS 
October 13, 1993 
Greetings: 
It's officially mid-week, and our university is midway through its annual National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. This week is a great opportunity for all members of our community to take a look at the role that alcohol plays in their lives. If after considering the role that alcohol plays in your life, you discover problems, I hope you will make the choice to make a change. 
The staff at Recreational Sports want students to have healthy social alternatives, and we offer a myriad of options to students. One such option occurs tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Gym 2 of the JACC, when we co-sponsor the second annual Disoriented Domer Dash. This event is a chance for teams of two (one male, one female) to just have fun, compete for some fantastic prizes, experience a natural high, and learn how alcohol can effect you negatively. I challenge everyone to grab a partner, and do the Domer Dash! 
Sincerely, 
i]~Lkr 
Gregory A. Kigar Coordinator, Recreational Sports 
By GREG SMITH Associaced Press 
IOWA CITY 
Iowa coach Hayden Fry defended his battered football team, off to its worst Big Ten start in 17 years, and said he's not about to turn to the fans for 
answers. 
Through radio call-in shows, letters-to-the-editor and letters to his office, Fry said he's aware of the fans discontent with Iowa's 2-3 record, includ­ing consecutive conference loss­es to Penn State, Michigan and Indiana. 
"Anytime you're not winning all your ball games, you've got 
Wildcats look for defense 
Associaced Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Northwestern coach Gary Barnett rated Wisconsin a tad better than Ohio State on Tuesday, calling the Badgers' oiTense tough to stop. 
During his weekly telephone conference with sports writers, Barnett, victimized 53-14 by Wisconsin last Saturday, was asked his opinion after his Wildcats had been trounced by both unbeaten opponents. 
''I'd have to rate Wisconsin's ability overall a little better, es­'! pecially the oiTense," he said. 
Wide receiver Lee D~Ramus and running back ·Brent Moss are a tough combination, Barnett said. 
But with Wisconsin and Ohio State behind him, Barnett now must start worrying about Minnesota and Scott Eckers, who brings his passing attack to Evanston on Safurday. 
"Eckers helped ring up 59 points against Purdue," said Barnett, "and in light of what has happened against our de­fense in losing big on the road the last two weeks, Northwestern faces a tough job." 
The Wildcats have only 10 of­fensive linemen ready to play, with three starters and two backups sidelined. 
CORRECTION 
A graphic on page 17 of yes­terday's Observer Incorrectly stated the record of Morrissey Hall's interhall football record. The record should have read 2­
0. In addition, a photo caption on page 16 incorrectly identi­fied Morrissey's quarterback. The player should have been identified as Scott Taylor. The Observer regrets the errors. 
Rt '·'"c.~lPGI: h'. ; ~.,\'. i l ;, J·.fi IJ!JTil)~.\.I.\,(RI:li.4-t'i.7V ~~­)O,l:lliiiRJ ~ \\\4. k'. "i 1."\.'. ') H :'\<\:'1-'liPGI Ill'. J ll'. i W. i·J~. ~ \l' 

\llC Ruov(PG) 1,45, 4, 10. 7,00, 9,4; 
Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
...­
Purdue dismisses shake-ups, looks to Wisconsin 
ByHANKLOWENKRON season resignations of two Associated Press members of his coaching staff during his midweek news INDIANAPOLIS conference Tuesday. But he Purdue coach Jim Colletto did, briefly. 
didn't want to discuss the mid-Defensive coordinator Moe 
Make the Choice to Make a Change 
I<ap-jam party 
slamming beer vodka shots disappear. you're driving friends jiving Olll' more for the road. Your mind's a hazl' intoxication then the rush accell'ration. burning rubber blurring minds frantic "Faster!" Driving blind. Wailing screeching violent blue spinning lights n.•scue crew. 
jaws of life battle death crumpll'd car dying breath. (;uilt. grid 
Ankney and line coach Tony "We visited with the entire amount of injuries defensively, 
Caviglia resigned Sunday -defensive team yesterday," our two sophomore linebackers 
less than 24 hours after the Colletto said. "Some were a lit­who are probably two of our 
Boilermakers lost to Minnesota tle saddened by it, some better players are very ques­
59-56 to set an NCAA major weren't. Some were a little con­tionable," Colletto said of Bart 
college record for points scored cerned about what direction Conley and Courtland Byrd. 
by a losing team and a Big Ten we're going." "They played very little in the 
mark for points scored by two game Saturday. We've had to 
teams. Colletto denied that the make wholesale adjusting of 
"We had one of the more team's pass defense, which personnel to try and get a 
closer horror football games in allowed Scott Eckers to com­healthy group of players who 
the country, a game that was plete six TD passes in his first will be able to play Saturday." 
decided by three points," collegiate start, was disorga­The Boilermakers (1-4, 0-2 
Colletto said. "Two of our nized. Big Ten) host No. 16 Wisconsin 
coaches resigned from our "I don't think it's disorga­(5-0, 2-0) on Saturday, seeking 
coaching staff." nized at all. We just need to go an upset that can help them 
"We're preparing for back to the basic things that we avoid a ninth consecutive losing 
Wisconsin and we'll move on played with at the start of the season. 
from there." season," he said. The Badgers, who haven't 
The sports information office Injuries have taken their toll opened with six victories since 
announced that Colletto would on the defense since it sparkled 1912, are lOth in the nation in 
not respond to any other ques­in a 17-0 loss to Notre Dame on rushing and seventh nationally 
tions about the coaching Sept. 25. in total offense with averages of 
change. "We have a tremendous 267.4 and 467.0. 
Tepper, Illini undaunted by 1-4 record 
Associated Press going to use every game to be­the Hawkeyes {2-3, 0-3 Big 
come Big Ten champs. Ten). Iowa has lost to Penn 
CHAMPAIGN "I've laid out exactly for them State, Michigan and Indiana. 
Despite a 1-4 record, Illinois what we have to do to get there "Their two wins were not 
coach Lou Tepper hasn't given this year and, if we fail, what particularly impressive wins in 
up the idea of winning the Big we have to do to get there in terms of what the fans would 
Ten. '94. We certainly can't squan­like to see," Tepper said. "We'd 
"We are right now in the pro­der this season," he said. love to have two wins right 
cess of becoming Big Ten Tepper's team, 1-1 in league now." 
champs," Tepper said Tuesday. play, travels to Iowa City, Iowa, Illinois is coming off a 20-12 
"That may be 1994, but we're Saturday for a game against loss Saturday to No. 5 Ohio 
State. Tepper believes the 
Fighting Illini still can get a
GO REALLY IRISH! 
bowl bid if they win five of their remaining six games. He sees similarities between
!i! Ireland Program 
his team and Iowa. "I think it's really a very in­
Information Session 
teresting matchup," Tepper
Tonight said. "Both of us are pretty 
October 13 stout on defense." 
And both teams are strug­
i!i 
7:00p.m.
!i! 
gling on offense. Iowa ranksGame Room, 10th in the Big Ten in total Haggar College Center offense, while Illinois is 11th. "We're certainly not happy
Saint Mary's College 
with our production with our
i!i 
offense. Period. Their problems
!i! 
Students discuss curriculum and sports at right now on offense are up front," Tepper said. "The two
St. Patrick's College, Maynooth 
of us have taken so many sacks. 
APPliCATIONS DISTRIBUTED 
The sacks have hurt us.
iii 
and can't forg('t. live the pain know it's n·al ,;?;;­a victim. _;:¢,~' 
National Collegiate 
~coholA~arenessVVeek 
Sponsored by: Offiice of Alcohol and Drug Education 

.. 
It's a great new way to .... 
'··; 
•meet 
people 

•learn 
about your faith ., ~­

•
read and talk about the Sunday Gospels before Mass '· 

•share 
prayer and honest discussion about your faith 


.. 
Co~unities N?. began in January 1993. A group of students, faculty, rectors, ·li ,. 
.,
and .....amp1:1s Mirustry staff planned and prepared the format and content. ... 
...
Comm~ties ND offers student-led, mixed groups of 9 -11 men and women the 
-~~ 
opp_orturuty to come together every other week to pray, reflect upon and discuss Scnpture, and talk about issues oflife and faith. ¥· 
.. -~ 
---NEW COMMUNITIES WILL BEGIN IN JANUARY 1994 --­
•J: 
::'~
If you are interested in becoming a part of Communities ND come to the 
Jf 
information night: ' \ . 
w 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13 ~' 9:00 -10:00 p.m. 
FACULTY DINING ROOM ' ~ .,_ 
upstairs in the south dining hall 
)~
refreshments will be served ~:t}t 
t...~
... 

':S.: 
..! . .f, ··I!+.\ 
....,i,:
0MPU5 ~~~~ 
.....
MINISTRY 
~"" 
r~t· 
.. 
··­

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 199 3 
Blue Jays drop Sox in ninth, return to Series 
By BEN WALKER 
Anodat~d l'r~ss 
CHICAGO 
Tho cold, the Chicago battnrs, thn pressure of a big game. None of It bothered Dave St11wart. 
Standing straight and staring ahead, he showed why the World Series champion Toronto Blue Jays got him, and why they're going back. 
Stewart, simply the best play­off pitcher ever, won tho fourth clincher of his career Tuesday night by leading Toronto past the White Sox 6-3 In Game 6. 
Pat Borders, MVP of last year's World Series, drove In his first three runs of this se­ries. His RBI grounder put the Blue Jays ahead 3-2 In the fourth Inning against Alex Fernandez. 
Devon White homered In the ninth and Paul Molitor, the Blue Jays' other offseason free agent signing, hit a two-run triple in the ninth, and that was enough. 
The victory was Stewart's second In the series and made him a perfect 8-0 with a 2.03 ERA In the playoffs. And, more Importantly to him and the team, he sent tho Blue Jays back to the World Series. 
"They were a scrappy club, a good ballclub," he said. "They keep coming at you, keep com­Ing at you. I figured ways to get thnm out." 
Toronto will play Game 1 Saturday night at SkyDome 
against either Philadelphia or Atlanta. With the win, the NL playoff schedule was changed; now, Game 6 in Philadelphia will start at 8:12p.m. EDT, rather than 3:07. 
The Blue Jays are the first re­peat AL champions since the New York Yankees in 1978. 
"It turned out to be a good six ballgames," Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston said. "We were real lucky this year." 
Stewart, named playoff for the MVP second time, was not with the Blue Jays when they worked out Monday. Instead, he stayed behind in Toronto to help pass out food at a dinner for the homeless. 
His late arrival Monday night, however, did not rattle him. He pitched 7 1-3 Innings and gave up two runs on four hits. He walked four and struck out three. 
Stewart extended his record for most playoff victories ­teammate Juan Guzman is next with just four. lie also passed Hall of Farner Catfish Hunter for the most innings pitched in the playoffs. Stewart does have two no-decisions in the playoffs -of course, his team won both of those games, too. 
All evening, Stewart stayed hot even while the tempera­tures dropped into the low 40s. Blowing on his hand to keep warm, he blew down a re­vamped Chicago lineup. Warren Newson replaced slumping Bo Jackson as the designated hitter, homered in the ninth off Duane Ward, who got a save. Catcher Mike La Valliere was hitless in place ol' Hon Karkovice. 
Stewart outpitched Fernandez for the second time in a week, all the while adding to his October legacy. The per­fect picture of calm, he even seemed to laugh after giving up his first run on a bases-loaded walk to Frank Thomas in the third inning. 
Even with so much skill, a lit­tle luck never hurts. Trailing 3­2, Chicago ran itself out of an inning when pinch runner Karkovice mistakenly took off from second base and was dou­bled up on Tim Raines' liner to end the seventh. 
In the eighth, after Thomas singled with one out, Robin Ventura hit a long drive to right that barely hooked foul. Gaston decided not to tempt fate any longer, and took out Stewart. 
Ward struck out Ventura and Ellis Burks, preserving the lead. 
"We just didn't hit real well with men on base and they were better than us," Chicago manager Gene Lamont said. 
For the sixth straight time, the team that scored first won the game. This also was the last AL playoff game before the whole format changes next year and an extra round is added. 
The White Sox will spend the winter thinking about missed chances. Then they'll open the 
Maple Lane Barber Shop 
serving the Notre Dame community for over 3 2 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin's) 
272--6722 
1994 season in Toronto. 
The Blue Jays broke open the game in the ninth on White's solo homer off Scott Hadinsky and Molitor's two-run triple off Hoberto Hernandez. The hit was White's 12th of the S!lries, tying an AL playoff record set by Raines this season. Molitor finished with nine hits, seven runs scored and live HBis. 
Fernandez, the victim of two errors and two unearned runs In his loss last week, was hurt again by his defense in the fourth as Toronto took a 3-2 lead. 
Molitor led off with a grounder to third that two-time Gold Glove winner Ventura bobbled for an error. Molitor moved to third on Ed Sprague's single. 
Borders grounded to short­stop Ozzie Guillen, who flipped to second baseman Joey Cora for a forceout. But Sprague slid hard into Cora, and his relay bounced past first baseman Thomas before Borders reached the bag for another er-
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
FREE! FREE! FREE! 
Saturday October 1 6 
Learn the game ...Meet the team at their home opener: 
Notre Dame Hockey vs. University of Waterloo 
2:30 pm JACC Fieldhouse 
ror, allowing Molitor to score. 
Guillen doubled in the third for Chicago's first hit, starting a two-run rally that tied It at 2. Haines singled for his 12th hit, setting the playoff record and matching tho White Sox mark for most in a postsoason series, set by Shoeless Joe Jackson in the 1919 World Series. Jackson was later banned from baseball after being accused of trying to throw games for the Black Sox. 
Cora was hit by a pitch, load­Ing the bases for Thomas. Hemainlng patient, Thomas drew his playoff-record 1Oth walk for one run, and another scored on Ventura's force-play grounder. 
Borders hit a two-run single in the second after the Blue Jays loaded th11 bases on two walks, a sacrifice and a hit bat­ter. 
Toronto again loaded the bases in the fifth. Fernandez escaped when he retired Tony Fernandez on a popup, making Tony 1-for-15 lifetime against Alex. 


Presented by Cavanaugh Hall Players Open Auditions for Women 
October 13 & 14, 7-9pm Cavanaugh Hall Basement 
The Longest Running Hall Play on Campus!!! 

*For more information calljohn 4-1553 
El Grupo de Blblico Reflexion 
Cada Semana/Weekly 
(Venga cuando que posible/Come when possible) 
Wednesdays, 9-10 p.m. Centerfor Social Concerns Universidad de Notre Dame 
Bring Your Own Bible Espanol o Ingles Todos Invitados/ All Invited Refreshments Following For more information call Campus Ministry 
~~ 
\~~\~ 
.. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Graduate Page Editor 
A Notre Dame graduate student interested in editing a page focusing on graduate issues and events 
If interested, please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by Wednesday, Oct. 13. Call631-4542 if you have questions about the position. 

_ __...... 259-6201 ,....___ 

------~~­
Wednesday, October 13, 1993 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
WE. 
Sr.t:. IF Tl'-1:.'1 
UNl>EI!'S-rAI"t> 
AE~1'>\E1"1 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Utensil on a 45 Cargo pencil 48 Flurry
1 Flogged, in a 28 Vandal 49Ribway 29 Morse-code so "... not even 6 Keglers' org. 
signal --":C. Moore 9Small gull 
30Guard 51 NE, e.g. 12 Make haste 31 Kelep, e.g. 52 Member of 13 Wharton's "The 32 Role for Clinton's 
Rosalind Cabinet Innocence" Russell 53 We, in Paris 15A Gardner 33 Concern of 52 54 Laid up for Across: Abbr. future use
16 Once more 34 Hebrew letter 57 Society bud 
17 Dormouse 35 Teaching sa Come afterward 
18Krazy­
method for the 59 Church area19 A fibrous hearing 63 Shoe-boxprotein impaired shape: Abbr. 
21 The Venerable 38 General's asst. 
64 Man of odes 
41 Fed. agency &5Vamoose! 

22 Meeting place since 1970 66 Burns negative 
DINING HALLfor Zeno 43 Tolkien 67 Transgress25 Browning's creatures 68 French states
DOWN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Half a dance 2 Summer mo. 3 New Deal in its. 
21 Report of a sort 42 Name of 12 55 Despot4Pam of "The popes
22 Former Iranian 56 ComfortCosby Show" 
45 Michael-,
ruler 58 Duke5 Unit of force memorable
23 Do a key job Ellington's
& Lovely lass actor 
monogram
24 Posthaste
7 Richard and Pat 46 Protozoan 
27 A great amount &O Mrs., in Mexico 
a Fore's opposite 47 Canadian who 9 Skedaddles 32 Ghostly sounds discovered 61 Cato's lang. 
.r:-:-1-::-f.'!'!' 1ii,,-.,:,.R8~=-! 10 He does some 36 Cookbooks kerosene: 1852 &2Bad-, have them 52 Command German spa 
-t~m$.11111 shuffling
1"!!""1~7+:=+:~:-l.iilll! 11 Diluted 37 Marabou, for -=+:=:+::~+:;~+=-1-,;,-l 13 Part of Dixie one 
Get answers to any three clues 
14 Step on it 39 Kind of coffee 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
20 Speeder's 40 Showman Bill: 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
nemesis 1846-1917 
Webster's Collegiate Dictionary defines ••• 
Zero= Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically 
Drink: to take liquid into the mouth for swallowing; to take in or suck up; 
dependent, on certain medications, 
excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages 
ZER® 
or pregnant.
Drank: past of drink Drunk: having the faculties impaired by alcohol; drinking to the point of intoxication Intoxication: an abnormal state that is essentially a poisoning One = One drink per hour, which Vomit: an act or instance of disgorging the contents of the stomach through the mouth; sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
to spew forth; to eject violently or abundantly (i.e. when you drink, and drink, 
e:>N&
and drink until the flow of fluids reverse) AND Sensible: having, containing, or indicative of good sense or reason Responsible: able to answer for one's conduct and obligations; able to choose for 
Three= No more than three drinks 

..
oneself between right and wrong; see also Zero-One-Three 
per day, and never daily. 
THRar. 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 


SPELUNKER 
Y'KNOW WI-IAI SEPARAr£5 HUMANS FROM ANIMALS, J£N 7 COMPLAINJN(,. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

SURE. SOME ANIMAlS CPrN USE TooLS, EMPLOY lANGJ­UA&Jf £V£N !3E IMAGJJN­
I 
ATI'I/ E Bvr ONL>I 
HUI'lANS 
COt1PLAIN. 
GOOD. W~Pt.J\iNIN~ REL£1\SfS 
FRUS'fRAitoN n1 AT COULl) OntE:R WISE L-EAD 1'b fR UPTIONS of' VIOU:ONCE. nJ(;.RE FoiZE1 5DGieT'/ Nf:E:OS 
A CONSTANT SU?PL'/ OF STUFF To CoMPLAIN ABaJT. 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
IS THAT Wfl'/ WE SPELLED "R(ff:RRf\L: 
IIJRON&! IN '{fSTE R Dfl'/'.5 
STRIP? 
BILL WATTERSON 
DAVE KELLETT 


SPORTS 
page 20 
Birkner bright spot in volleyball's rout of Michigan 
By Timothy Seymour Birkner continued to show why her Assistant Sports Editor solid, error-free play has earned her a starting position in every match thus far Despite a less than spectacular oiTen­for the Irish, hitting 10 kills with no sive performance, the No. 13 Notre Dame errors for a team and career high .833 volleyball team quickly dispatched an percentage. Birkner also proved to be overmatched Michigan squad 15-9, 15-8, the catalyst in Notre Dame's game two 15-4 in Ann Arbor to improve their sea­comeback, sparh. .. ;g a 9-2 run that broke 
son record to 15-3 and extend their win­open a 6-6 deadlock. ning streak to seven games. Birkner's all around performance, Although the Irish were able to finish which included nine digs, earned her the match in three games, Notre Dame praise from Brown, who commented, did not show its usual sharpness on the "Jenny was great, and she kept us in it 
offensive side, eommitting 19 errors en offensively." route to a season low .175 hitting per­The Irish played closer to their poten­eentage. tial in the third game, dismissing 
Michigan 15-4 and hitting for a .368 per­''I'm always pleased with a win, but I'm centage to close out the match in just 
not pleased with the way we played," over an hour. commented Irish head eoach Debbie Notre Dame's superior play was not lost Brown. "I thought we were really sloppy, on the Michigan coaching staff. "Notre 
particularly in the first two games. We Dame is just a very good team," noted won because Michigan played that way Wolverine head coach Greg Giovanazzi, too." who saw his team drop to 7-8 on the In the opening game, the Irish were year. "They don't make a lot of mistakes 
ignited to a 7-1 run by senior Julie Harris and they stay steady throughout the and junior Christy Peters, who took con­match." trol at the net after the Wolverines had While the Irish were able to overcome tied the match at eight. their offensive problems, Michigan could 
Harris had one of the better perfor­find no remedy, hitting for a negative mances of the Irish squad, hitting for .037 percentage, with 26 errors and only seven kills and only two errors, but Peters 22 kills. was off her game for one of the first times The Wolverines also failed to attain pro­all season. notching only five kills and duction from their seniors, as team lead­
matching that with live errors. ers JoAnna Collias and Fiona Davidson Senior Molly Stark. who had been domi­both hit for negative percentages. nant of late, also cooled off offensively in Despite the sloppy play from both the match, hitting only .043 with six squads, the Irish left the match with the errors. comforting thought that they have rolled _,. 
With their two stars struggling, the out to the best start in the program's his-t Irish showed the composure of a veteran tory. Also, they continue to show the ,,.,," -. team and found someone else to step 
character of a championship team, find-The Observer/Jake Peters up-freshman outside hitter Jenny 
ing ways to win when not at the top of Freshman Jenny Birkner had ten kills and no errors in the Irish's three-game route of Birkner. 
their game. Michigan last night. 
Men's soccer hosts Loyola, seeks high tourney seed 
By MIKE NORBUT  third and fourth full shutouts of  Key contributors for Loyola  
Spons Writer  the season.  include  senior  Mark  
Strothcamp, who has turned in  
Emotions will be riding high  Against the Ramblers, the  five goals and six assists on the  
as the Notre Dame men's soc­ Irish hold an  11-2-2 series ad­ year, and freshman standout  
cer  team  hosts  Loyola  of  vantage, though Loyola has lost  Ron Oster.  Vadim Vasserman,  
Chicago tonight  on  Alumni  only one of the last four meet­ last year's scoring leader, has  
Field.  ings.  The Ramblers were tri­ played only six games this year  
"It's an important game be­ umphant the last time the two  due to injury.  
cause of what it means to us in  teams squared off at Notre  
the conference," said Irish head  Dame.  With a 1-2 conference record.  
coach Mike Berticelli.  "There's always some special  the  Ramblers  need  a  win  
feelings coming back to Notre  tonight  to  improve  their  
Notre Dame, 8-4 overall on  Dame," said Loyola head coach  chances of securing a  higher  
the season, holds a share of  Ray O'Connell, who is a  197 4  tournament  seeding  in  
first place in the Midwestern  Notre Dame graduate.  November.  
Collegiate Conference with a 3­ Last year, the Irish downed  "Every game is important to  
1 record.  They can secure a  the Ramblers 2-1 in the post­ us  especially with the MCC  
No. 1 seeding in the post-sea­ season after being shocked with  tournament coming up,"  con­ 
son tournament with wins over  a  3-2 loss during the regular  tinued O'Connell.  "We just  
their remaining conference  season.  In the game, Notre  have to play our game and let  
foes, Loyola and LaSalle.  Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead,  the chips fall where they may."  
The Irish are coming off a  but allowed Loyola to scratch  The Irish will need strong  
two-game sweep this weekend  their  way  back  until  the  play from freshman forward  
in which they defeated Xavier  Ramblers eventually pulled out  Chris Mathis and midfielders  
and Ohio State, each by a 1-0  the victory.  Tont Richardson and Jason Fox  
decision.  "Last year's game was last  as  they look to take one step  
"We're disappointed that we  year's  game,"  continued  closer to winning the season  
only scored two goals, but you  Berticelli.  "They deserved to  conference title.  
can't be disappointed with  a  win."  "If we play the way we're ca­ 
victory,"  said  Notre  Dame  The Ramblers, 5-6-1  on the  pable of playing, it shouldn't be  
junior defender Dane Whitley.  season, are currently riding on  a contest," continued Whitley.  
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Jean Joseph and the men's soccer team host Loyola of Chicago  Whitley, along with the Irish defensive unit, supported goalie Bert Bader as he recorded his  a three-game win streak, their last win coming last Sunday over LaSalle.  Tonight's game is scheduled to start at 7 pm on Alumni Field.  


tonight in an important MCC match-up . 
.. 
Inside SPORTS 

American League 
Big I 0 Football 
Championship 
Indiana, Penn State, and 
Michigan continue quest 
Toronto returns to world 
toward Hose Bowl
series 
see page 18 
see page 15 

National League 
Championship Philidelphia sneaks out of Atlanta with a 3-2 series lead 
see page 14 




