
------------------------------------~----------------------------­
Professors' cooperation crucial to success ofThe Guide 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Neighborhood improvement 
Students participate in the clean-up and beautification of the Northeast Neighborhood this past Saturday as part of the Fall Festival. The program, originated by student leaders and the Center for Social Concerns, came to fruition under the auspices of student government. 
, 

Weekend Wheels up and running despite cuts 
By LIZ FORAN 
News Writer 
The Weekend Wheels pro­gram started up again last weekend despite budgeting cuts and lack of interest which had made it doubtful that the program would run again this year, according to Jackie Macy, co-chair of Hall President's Council (HPC). 
"We are very excited about it," she said. 
Weekend Wheels transports students from several off-cam­pus sites such as popular bars, Lafayette Square and Turtle Creek safely back to campus. It was begun two years ago by HPC as an alternative trans­portation and an attempt to re­duce driving while intoxicated, said Macy. 
HPC funds the program at a cost of nine thousand dollars per year. Last year, Student 
Government cut the funds allot­ted to HPC for this program be­cause of a decline in riders and in the hope that the Taxi Voucher system would be in effect by now, said Chris Canzoniero, co-chair of HPC. 
A lack of publicity was cited as one of reasons for the decline in students using Weekend Wheels, according to Macy. 
HPC petitioned the Student Senate for more funds for the Weekend Wheels program, ac­cording to Macy. After the ap­proval of additional funds, HPC began an extensive publicity campaign, which includes the signs, posters and ads which appear around campus stating times, pick-up sites and drop­off points, she said. 
"It is a valuable program," said Canzoniero. "We are happy that it is being given 
see WHEELS I page 4 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
While several Notre Dame professors agree that a publi­cation like The Guide serves as a useful tool for undergradu­ates as they choose their cours­es, faculty members also recog­nize that a portion of its success depends on their own participa­tion. 
"It seems to me that the in­formation it provides is quite useful," said Professor Paul Weithman of the Philosophy department. "What I am sorry about is that there isn't a wider range of professors included." 
Professor Hichard Sheehan, chair of the Faculty Senate, agreed. "It is disappointing that more faculty didn't participate. The students clearly went 

Reno urges nation to refocus on children 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Urging all Americans to re­focus themselves on their own families and also on children who are less fortunate, Attorney General Janet Reno called for an investment in the nation's most precious resource -its children -in an interac­tive telecast aired nationwide yesterday. 
The telecast, "Home Improvement: Building Family Esteem," was the eighth in the biennial series on the family. which is sponsored and pro­duced by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
"Too often as a nation and as a family we have forgotten our children," said Reno, whose career has been marked by a focus on children and family is­sues. "We must reacquaint ourselves to this most impor­tant resource." 
"Schools and parents must reach out and serve as mentors to the children," said Reno, mentioning her frequent trips 



Objectivity key to faculty confidence 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 

A combination of consistent objectivity and accuracy is the key to gaining the faculty's con­fidence in a student evaluation handbook such as The Guide, according to David Nuscher, the 1991-93 editor-in-chief of the CUE, Harvard University's stu­dent evaluation book. 
"We just make it clear that 
through a lot of work to put it together." 
Approximately 65 professors are published in this first edi­tion of The Guide, and over 80 classes are featured. Last spring student government sent 
to Washington, D.C. area schools to interact with kids. 
Reno stressed the importance of the family leave programs like that of her former work­place, the Dade County (Fl.) State Attorney's office, as being models to bridge the gap of family unity that exists for many 'latch' key children. 
Also among the program's featured guests were the best-­selling authors of How To Talk So Kids Will Listen and Listen So Kids Will Talk, Adele Faber and Elaine Mazlish, and a panel of speakers including Miguel Franco, assistant pro­fessor of psychology at Notre Dame, Huth Warren, liaison for parents education with the South Bend School Corporation, Augustus Jordan, a South Bend psychologist specializing in family therapy and child de­pression, and Mary Roemer, a South Bend therapist in private practice. 
The panel and guests ad­dressed questions based on their model of family self es­teem, whose five components we publish what we find,'' said Nuscher. "There are always a few (professors) who do not understand the rigorous edito­rial processes that our reviews go through. It is the professor's problem... if students have criticized his or her perfor­mance." 
The CUE, backed by a 25­year history, was the model for The Guide. Notre Dame stu~ dent government's new course 
letters to course instructors asking their permission to be included in The Guide. The actual surveys were separate from the mandatory Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs). 
The lack of participation can 
are safety, pride, identity. inti­macy, purpose and direction. 
"The primary goal of a family is to launch kids into adulthood and to do so it must provide a sense of where they are going," said Franco. 
Warren also stressed the need for goal setting in families to set a sense of purpose. 
"Internal motivations in the family serve to identify its iden­tity," she said. 
Both Faber and Mazlish stressed the importance of de­veloping a unity in the family that encourages a autonomy of its members. 
"Families must hear each other out," said Faber. "They must listen to the feelings of the other people openly." 
The telecast was transmitted via satellite to more than 1000 schools, a potential 20 million cable viewers, 150 church groups, and 200 alumni clubs. Copies will be available in December for $25. 
It was sponsored by the Alumni Association and Ronald McDonald Children's Charities. 
evaluation handbook. The most 
recent edition of the CUE 
included approximately 500 
undergraduate courses and 
professors· and was 900 pages 
long, The book. produced by a 
staff of 12 undergraduates, is 
distriJ:mted free of charge at the 
beginning of each school year 
and contains classes for both ·tlH) fall and spring semester. 

see CUE I page 4. be attributed to a number of factors, according to Heather Arnold, chair of student gov­ernment's intellectual life de­partment. If the professor's class numbered less than 15 students, it was considered too 

Stand up and laugh 
A comedian from the Saint Mary's comedy night performs his routine. SMC Student Activities Board helped sponsor the event. 
small to survey, and if less than seven valid responses were col­lected from an eligible class, the results were not published. 
Some professors may have wanted to see the end result before they took part, because a past effort at a student eval­uation book was fairly "unpro­fessional," said Arnold. 
However. several instructors thought The Guide was an im­provement over past attempts. 
"I think it's much better than the one that was done years ago," said Professor Thomas Mueller, chair of the aerospace and mechanical engineering department. 
Still, Mueller agrees that the Guide "does not have anywhere near the number of faculty that 
see PROFESSORS/ page 4 page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, November 8, 1993 

INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Ack! 'Bloom County' fans refllefllber 
Four years ago this month, Opus the Penguin made a surprise, albeit dis­heartening, appeara'nce in the comic strip Ziggy. Opus's cameo in Tom Wilson's comic strip might have been humorous had Opus not recently lost his "ob as the star of Bloom County. On Aug. 6, 1989, the doors of one of the world's most famous bach­elor pads, the Bloom Boarding House, had closed forever. 
Opus and Ronald-Ann, his small traveling companion, were shipped ofT to Outland, along with the infamous Bill the Cat. But the voices o Milo, Binkley, Steve Dallas, Cutter John, Portnoy, Oliver Wendall Jones and many other memorable characters were silenced forever when Berke Breathed ended the strip with a heartwarming and nostalgic final week. I gasped in horror as I awoke one morning to find the comic strip Cathy in the slot where my eyes had been glued for years. 
Bloom County fans know in their hearts that Outland pales in comparison to its predecessor, which might have been the best political car­toon of all time. Although die-hard fans love Breathed, we also know that Outland tries to be too much all at once. It falls into the category o an inept, albeit amusing, spinoiT. Outland is to Bloom County as Joanie Loves Chachie was to Happy Days. 
Bloom County perfected the art of the political lampoon. It was both subtle and direct, hilari­ous and poignant. The only thing Bloom County asked of its reader was to accept the fact that a dysfunctional black family, a dysfunctional white family, a perverted bachelor and a truck­load of animals could live togther under one roof. 
Bloom County mercilessly and tactlessly slashed out at all that is wrong in the world: inept politicians, whiny self-interest groups, nauseating PC banner-carriers, racism, the deteriorating American family. You name it, and Bloom County said something about it. But the strip managed to do some things almost no other political strip has done: it was never mean-spirited, and it made you care deeply about its characters. Half the nation must have cried when Opus found out that his real mother was dead. 
The best part of Bloom County, though, was the humor. No strip has ever approached its comic genius. I started reading it in grade school. I laughed my head off then, although I did not understand all of its subtleties. Now I go back and reread the books and roar until it hurts. 
Who else would embarrass the politically cor­rect with such patronizing suggestions changing the name of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" to "Pitch Black and the Seven Big llonkies?" Who else would chop an old man's head off because he squeezed the Charmin in the grocery store check-out line? 
And who else could dream up Oliver Wendall Jones, the tiny ten-year old prodigy who built an atomic bomb for his gradeschool science fair by scraping "the luminous stuff off 9,700 old glow-in-the dark watch hands?" Berke Breathed and Bloom County. That's who. 
Of the Bloom County gang I can only say this: I miss you all and pray doubtfully for your return. Until then, I guess I'll have to settle for Doonesbury. But I still refuse to read Cathy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Sarah Doran Dave Hungeling Michael O'Hara Production Sports Whirney Sheers 
Jonarhan Jensen Karhie Young Viewpoint Graphics Michael O"Hara Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xccpt Juring exam and vacalion period!>. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pres!!.. All rrproJuninn righu are reserved. 

Woman sought in the murders of several members of her family 
AUBURN, Calif_;----------------------,almost a decade ago, but A woman acquitted o THE FAMILY THAT KILLS TOGETHER... they were unidentified until killing her husband in 1964 IIKILLER/ ~~;I KILLED last week. Authorities say 
is wanted in the torture slay-ACCUSED ,:ry:;: VICTIMS Suesan Knorr, 17, was 
ings of her two daughters. Her two sons are in custody. An arrest warrant for Theresa Jimmie Knorr, 47, was circulated Sunday to the National Crime Information Center, said Johnnie Smith, Placer County sheriff's inspector. Authorities were searching for her nation­wide. Knorr allegedly enlist­ed the aid of the two sons in the incineration slaying of one daughter in 1984 and the beating and starvation slaying of the other daughter in 1985. A complaint filed Thursday in Placer County Municipal Court charged Knorr and her sons with murder and conspiracy to com­mit murder in the deaths of Suesan Knorr and Shelia Gay Sanders. William Robert Knorr, 26, was arrested Friday in Woodland. He was being held without bail in Placer County Jail about 125 miles east of San Francisco. Robert Wallace Knorr, 24, recently began serving a 15-year sentence at the Nevada state prison in Ely on a second-degree murder conviction. The bodies of the two daughters were found in the Sierra Nevada 
Princess Diana photos cause Palace reaction 
LONDON 
Buckingham Palace threatened action Sunday against a tabloid which pub­lished photographs taken by hidden camera of Princess Diana working out at a gym. Lord McGregor. chairman of the Press Complaints Commission, said he will ask it to investigate the Sunday Mirror's "flagrant breach of the letter and spirit of the newspaper industry's code of practice." Trumpeting a "world 
·:-"";'­exclusive," the mass-circulation news-Princess D1 paper printed several photos of the leotard-clad princess lying on a leg-press machine at the L.A. Fitness Club in west London. Its front-page headline read "Di Spy Sensation." The gym photos of the princess were pub­lished at the end of a tough week for the 32-year-old es­tranged wife of Prince Charles. In a rare public rebuke to Britain's news media, she dismissed suggestions Thursday that she again is suiTering from the eating dis­order bulimia and is on the verge of a nervous break­down. 
Tainted blood, needles stolen with Buick 

HIGHLAND, Ind. 
Vials of blood, syringes and needles -all believed tainted by the virus the causes AIDS -were contained in a car that was stolen from a supermarket parking lot. Police broadcast a warning about the automobile's con­tents after a nurse who owns the blue 1988 Buick Skyhawk 2-door reported she had the tainted supplies. The car, which had Illinois plates RF-9840, was reported stolen around 8 p.m. Saturday from the Ultra shopping center in Highland. The nurse later called police after she got home to say that she forgot to report the contents when she reported the car stolen, said police. The nurse said she had drawn blood from homebound HIV patients in her care and was going to turn in the vials of blood to a laboratory for analysis, said police. The nurse wasn't identified. 
doused with gasoline and burned alive near Squaw Valley. Sanders, her 20­year-old half-sister, was starved to death while im­prisoned in a closet in an apartment. Her body was found in a cardboard box. Nunes said the case was broken after Placer County 
Brendan Regan Detective John Fitzgerald received a call Oct. 28 from an unidentified female informant. Fitzgerald and Inspector Johnnie Smith trav­eled out of state to interview the woman. Meanwhile, police have also reopened the investigation into the unsolved slaying of Theresa Knorr's sister, Rosemary Norris, 39, who was strangled in 1983. Those accused of the 1984 and 1985 deaths are not accused of killing Norris, Smith said. But he added that detectives want to take a closer look because of the recent developments. In 1964, Theresa Knorr, then 18 years old and preg­nant, was charged with shooting her husband 23-year­old husband, CliiTord Sanders, at their home in Galt. She told authorities it was self-defense. 
Son of Sam serial slayer says he's sorry 

NEW YORK 
David Berkowitz. the notorious "Son of Sam" serial killer who terrorized New York, has apologized from prison for his deadly deeds. Berkowitz, 40, said the goal of the 13 shootings-which killed six people -"was to bring chaos to the city... bringing the city of New York to its knees and so forth, which was part of the plan." The shootings began on July 29, 1976 and continued for 13 months. It wasn't until the fourth attack, in January 1977, that police recognized a pattern. Berkowitz was dubbed the ".44-caliber killer." lie left a note at the site of his sixth attack, a double murder. "I am the Son o Sam," he wrote. Sam, he later told police, was Sam Carr, his neighbor, whose dog "told me to kill." The killer's favorite target was women with long dark hair, often parked in lover's lanes after a date. New Yorkers changed their hairstyles and habits to avoid becoming his victim. Police traced a parking ticket issued at one mur­der scene and arrested Berkowitz outside his Yonkers apartment in 1977. He pleaded guilty. lie claims there was a conspiracy, but evidence proves otherwise. 
Everest group fined for not having permit 
KATMANDU, Nepal 
They came, they saw, and they conquered the world's tallest mountain. Then the British expedition was fined $100,000 for not having a permit. Four members of the team scaled Mount Everest last month, even though their government permit was good only for Mount Lhotse, a sister peak that is 926 feet shorter. The fine is twice the amount mountaineers have to pay to climb the 29,028­foot Mount Everest, the Tourism Ministry said Sunday. The offenders were John Scott Mcivor, 39, a British accountant living in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Ginette Lesley Harrison, a 35-year-old doctor from Bristol. England. The two reached the peak first Oct. 7. They were followed two days later by Martin Barnicott, 41, a mountain guide from Gwynedd, Wales. and American lumber businessman Lee Nobmann, 43, from Petaluma, Calif. 
INDIANA Weather 
Monday, Nov. 8 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 8. 
FRONTS: 
.....,......... ....&....&... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 

H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Vua ASSOCtatedPrsss 
C 1993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 

H  L  Dallas  58  29  New York  48  37  
Atlanta  54  31  London  52  48  Philadelphia  50  36  
Baltimore  48  31  Los Angeles  74  59  San Francisco  76  52  
Boston  46  38  Miami  80  73  Seattle  52  36  
Cha~oMe  52  34  Minneapolis  36  18  Seoul  57  48  
Chicago  41  16  Montreal  50  20  Toronto  38  28  
Columbus  34  28  New Orleans  53  39  Washington, D.C.  47  34 

V1a Assoc1aled Press GraphtcsNat C1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
page 3 
I 

Fire damage estimates increase Arrest made in string of 
I 
By JEFF WILSON A Red Cross survey counted day," the Reverend David I i
racially based firebombit1gs 
Associated Press 390 residences destroyed, Worth said at Malibu seven with major damage and Presbyterian Church. "To those MALIBU, Calif. 51 with minor damage, spokes­of you who lost homes our Associated Press and pray that the justice system Fire-devastated communities woman Barbara Wilks said. hearts go out to you. If you're can be invoked and brought to 
sought solace at church ser­The tally of lost homes was up going through a crisis let's talk SACRAMENTO, Calif. some closure." vices Sunday, while the from an earlier figure of 350. it out." The NAACP expressed relief American Red Cross reported Members of the congregation, Sunday that police have ar­The local NAACP office was damage more extensive than "It's OK to cry. We have most wearing T -shirts, shorts, rested one person in connection firebombed on July 27. A day 
previously thought. Kleenex in the pews for you to-and sweatshirts, told of what with a string of firebombings earlier, a firebomb was discov­
I 

CLUB COLUMN 
November 8, 1993 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 3 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of Lafortune. 
1. 
AIDS AWARENESS will be having a meeting on Monday, November 8 at 8:30 in 114 O'Shaughnessy. 

2. 
ALPHA EPSILON DELTA, the pre-med honor society, will hold irs second general meeting of the year on Wednesday, November 10 at 6 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland. The meeting will be brief and will cover projects for the upcoming months. 

3. 
TOASTMASTERS OF NOTRE DAME will be meeting at 6:30 


p.m. this Tuesday in room 222 of Hayes-Healey. The time change is meant to accommodate the Schlafly/Weddington debate. 
4. 
STUDENT ART FORUM will be hosting a foreign film night fea­turing "Camille Clautel" starring Gerard Depardieu as the legendary sculptor Rodin, and Isabelle Adjani as his creative prodigy. The film will be shown on Friday, November 12 at 7 p.m. in the Snite Museum Conference Room. Popcorn and drinks will be provided. 

5. 
THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB will be holding an open rehearsal on Friday at 4:45p.m. in Crowley Hall of Music. All are invited to attend. 

6. 
THE FEMINIST FORUM meeting that was scheduled for Tuesday, November 9 will be moved to Wednesday, November 10, due to the Schlafly/Weddington Debates. The meeting will be held at 7:30p.m. in the Coalition Center, 2nd floor, LaFortune. The topic of discussion will be body images. We also hope to address reactions to the debate. Any questions, call 4-2978. 



was lost -and found -in the that gutted its office and those ered burning outside a syna­inferno that roared through the of other minorities. gogue. coastal mountains last week. A suspect, who turned 18 in On Oct. 14, a fire at a state 
Dan and Lisa Cislo were jail on Sunday, was taken into office that handles discrimina­among 15 families from the custody Saturday in the first ar­tion claims caused minor dam­church that lost homes in the rest since the attacks began in age. arson blaze. July. On Oct. 5, someone tossed a 
Molotov cocktail through a bed­
"It's hard to feel like a victim Police released few details, room window at the home of an when everyone has been so but scheduled a news confer­Asian-American city council­gracious -people we know ence for Sunday afternoon. man. Jimmie Yee and his wife and total strangers," Mrs. Cislo They said more arrests were were home, but weren't in­said. "We lost things we loved expected. jured. The Japanese American 
and things that can't be re­"We're pleased someone is in Citizens League office was placed but we have each custody," said Clyde Rainwater, heavily damaged by a firebomb other." vice president of the National on Oct. 2 
The Cislos found a single Association for the After the latest fire, someone treasure in the rubble of their Advancement of Colored People called a television station home. in Sacramento. "We just hope claiming responsibility on 
Happy 2Jst 
JlJJEN JJJE!BJJJiUNrG 
sitting on an endowed chair ofphilosophy! 
WEEK OF NOVEMBER 8, 1993 

"THE GUIDE" HELPS STUDENTS CHOOSE CLASSES 
In orderto helpstu­be distributed to his or her thought of the course and semester's edition, please dents make informed deci­students. The Spring 1994 the professor. The authors call Heather Arnold in the sions about class choices Guide lists numerous busi­and editors of the book Student Government Of­before they DART, Stu­ness classes, as well as tried togive an honest, clear fice at 631-6283. dent Government has cre­courses in such areas as pictureofwhateach course The Guide was distrib­ated a publication called biology, philosophy, engi­is really like. uted in student mailboxes The Guide. neering, and computer ap­The Guide will be during the first week in 
The Guide pro­plications. printed each semester, and November. Off-campus vides information about a Each listing in The many student volunteers students may pick up their variety ofclasses. In order Guide provides course re­are necessary to help com­copies in the Student Gov­for a course to be listed in quirements (the numberof pile and summarize the in­ernment Office. The Guide, a professor tests, papers, etc.), reading formation from the evalu­must give permission for material, and a summary ations. If you are inter­Guide evaluation forms to ofwhatlastyear'sstudents ested in helping with next 

QUIZ BOWL THIS WEEK 
The Faculty/Stu­beheldon Monday through dent Quiz Bowl will take Thursday, November 8 place this week. The Quiz through 11, from 7 to 10 Bowlis a competition simi­p.m. in room 107 of the lar to "Jeopardy" and will Pasquerilla Center. The be a double elimination final round will be on tournament among eleven Thursday night at 8:30 teams. Each team consists p.m. in the same location. of four members, at least All students are invited to one of whom must be a attend and watch students faculty member. and faculty in a battle of 
The Quiz Bowlwill their wits. 

behalf of a white supremacist group called the Aryan Liberation Front. 
"The ALF takes full responsi­bility for the attack and promis­es to continue the armed strug­gles... whether it be rocks, Molotov cocktails, bombs, guns, to effect the change in Jew cap­italism and America political­ly," the caller said. 
Police later released a tape of an Oct. 5 phone call made to a TV station from a man claiming responsibility for the fire at Yee's home. 
"Check out Jimmie Yee's house," the caller said in a low, almost breathy voice. "Another horrible, horrendous hate crime for you to report." 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 8, 1993 
SCHEDULE FOR WEEKEND WHEELS SATURDAY AND SUNDAY FREE TRANSPORTATION SERVICE TO CAMPUS
Wheels 
continued from page 1 

Senior Bar C1 parkin~ lot ······ 11:00 p.m. 11:40 p.m. 12:20a.m. 1:00a.m. 1:40 a.m. 2:20a.m. 
Library Circle DROP-Q F ONLY 11:02 p.m. 11:42 p.m. 12:22 a.m. 1:02 a.m. 1:42 a.m. 2:22a.m. 
Campus VIew Willis Ave 11:07 p.m. 11;47 p.m. 12:27 a.m. 1:07 a.m. 1:47 a.m. 2:27a.m.
another chance." 

TUrtle Creek Vaness by Cactus Jack's 11:09 p.m. 11:49 p.m. 12:29a.m. 1:09 a.m. 1:49 a.m. 2:29a.m. Linebacker South Bend Ave 11:11 p.m. 11:51 p.m. 12:31 a.m. 1;11 a.m. 1:51 a.m. 2:31a.m. 
This campaign was highly 
successful and the outlook on 

Five Corners across from commons 11:18 p.m. 11:58 p.m. 12:38 a.m. 1:18 a.m. 1:5Ba.m. 2:38a.m.
the continuation of the 

Lafayette Square Eddy St. & Cedar Ave. 11:21 p.m. 12:01 a.m. 12:41 a.m. 1:21 a.m. 2:01a.m. 2:41a.m.
Weekend Wheels program is 

Club 23 Notre Dame Ave. side 11:25 p.m. 12:05 a.m. 12:45 a.m. 1:25 a.m. 2:05a.m. 2:45a.m. 
Main Circle DROP-QFF ONLY 11:30 p.m. 12:10 a.m. 12:50 a.m. 1:30 a.m. 2:10a.m. 2:50a.m.
good as long as student interest 
remains high, said Macy. 
Professors 
continued from page 1 
it should." After seeing this ini­tial publication, however, he would encourage faculty mem­bers to allow their classes to be surveyed. 
Professor John Duman, chair of biological sciences, also sup­ports student government's ef­forts "as long as it's done pro­
fessionally and with the good representation of the students." "The booklet does serve a purpose," said Duman. 
Philosophy Professor William Ramsey echoed Duman's com­ments, although he does have some reservations about the evaluation process. 
"Students do have a right to know what other students think," said Ramsey. "The biggest worry with these things is that they turn into a popular­ity contest for the professors." 
It is necessary for students to 
have access to information 
about instructors, but often­
times students will give higher 
ratings to the more "entertain­
ing" professors who may not 
"provide the greatest informa­
tion or education," according to 
Ramsey. 
"We've all had teachers that ·were not very good, but not all 
teachers are stand-up comics," 
agreed Duman. 

"Student reactions to the pop­ularity of a teacher shouldn't be equated with the quality of the teaching," said Weithman. 
One professor who asked not to be identified and was evalu­ated in The Guide character­ized his experience with the publication as a "disaster." His class discussions depended on teacher assistants (TA's), and when the evaluations of his TA's were included with his av­erage, their rankings brought his overall score down. Compared to all of his past evaluations, his average score in The Guide was the lowest he had ever received. 
"I don't choose my TA's. They are given to me," the professor said. 
Student government also mis­placed the written comments of his students, the professor said, so the numbers could not be placed in context with the sum­mary. 

as others, and that the most that you are out to help the stu­forms in class. are not included in the CUE, important way to sway faculty dents make choices, not to play "On the whole, it is voluntary however, because they are con­
CUE 

opinion is to "prove time and vigilante by terrorizing faculty," participation. One department sidered too small to survey. continued from page 1 time again (the) commitment to said Nuscher. has voted to make it manda­Although Nuscher has not yet presenting the facts objectively Nuscher works throughout tory, as has our Core curricu­seen this first edition of The 
"(The CUE) is a valuable re­and accurately." the year, and the stafT members lum," said Nuscher. Guide, he is supportive of the source to anyone interested in "It takes time... to convince work from the month of March The CUE contains evaluations work of the committee. making an informed choice," people as to the merits of the through July. The evaluation for about 80 percent of "I can say that any effort of said Nuscher. project," he said. forms are distributed from the Harvard's large lecture cours­this kind that is attempted with 
Nuscher admits, however, "Tell them how many times Office of the Dean of es. Specialized seminars or care and attention to detail is a that some faculty members are you fact-check and confirm sta­Undergraduate Education at classes with under 15 students good one," said Nuscher. 
not as supportive of their ef­tistics to make sure everything the end of each semester. and forts to gauge student opinion is as it should be, (and) explain instructors administer the 

THE 



INTERVIEW 
SUIT 

Whether you're valid student I.D. shopping for the at any Redwood &
Purchase

all-important Ross strore and business suit or receive a 20% your post-college any Redwood discount on the wardrobe, there's suit of your no better time to & Ross suit choice. purchase than right now. Visit one of our
and receive a 

stores today and Between now and take advantage of November 30, 20o/o discount this very special simply present a offer. 
-~· 
5R 

ReAwooA ~Ross 
University Park Mall 

Not valid in combination with any other offer 
The Controversy (_ontinue.s~~~ Tomorrow 


7:30pm Stepan $3 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 


All Engineering and Science Seniors Invited 
The Palace Knight Program 
by Dr. James Olsen Chief Scientist U.S. Air Force Wright Laboratory 
Air Force Paid Advanced Studies Program for Civilian Scientists & Engineers 
Date: Wednesday, November 10, 1993 Time: 3:30 prn Place: 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
Attention!! Anyone wishing to meet with Dr. Olsen on an individual basis may do so in room 364 Fitzpatrick Hall between the hours of9:00 am and 12.{)0 noon on Wednesday, November 10, 1993. 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue wllh othlf"', to d..pen 
your undaratandln'il of youraelf, your valuaa, your 
ralallonahlp wllh Chrtal, your experience ol Chrlallan 
community and ..,._lea. 

RETREAT 
DECEMBER 3-5, 1993
DATES: 

FORMS 
November 3-9 
AVAILABLE: 
at4:00 p.m. 

SIGN UP 
November 9-4:00 p.m. 
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library ~ 631-7800 0Jv111.1S 
MNI5TRY 

COST: $25.00 
~------~-----------------­
r ----------------~------­
~ 
Ten teen-agers killed during attack on Zulu compound 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
Gunmen attacked the com­pound of a Zulu chief loyal to the African National Congress on Sunday, killing 10 teen­
• SIII-E\IIIM 
agers and injuring eight people, authorities said. 
The attack in the violence­wracked province of Natal came as talks to draft a post­apartheid constitution are scheduled to finish next week, 
• MAllllfV1All(\ 
paving the way for the coun­try's first multi-racial elections. 
The attacked occurred north of the port city of Durban in an area that has been a frequent battleground between support­ers of the ANC and the Zulu­
• ADVOCACY • 
ported to be members of the ANC. 
The spokeswoman, who was not identified by name, said among the injured was a 
· woman and three-year-old child. There were no further details. 
More than 11,000 people, almost all of them black, have been killed in political violence in South Africa in the past three years. Most of the killing has been linked to rivalry between the ANC and Inkatha. 
The SAPA news agency quot­ed an ANC spokeswoman as describing Molefe and his fol­lowers as a "fairly isolated band of ANC members in the middle of an IFP area." 
In Natal Province and espe­cially the Zulu homeland of KwaZulu, younger, urbanized Zulus tend to support the ANC and its goal of a united South Africa with cultural freedoms for minority groups. 
I 
. 1 

Costa Rica  $255  
Quito  $269  
Casablanca  $375  
Nairobi  $763  
Bangkok  $495  

Ai<Wes are oowey based on arrudrip ~m Wject to charGe· Restrictiorupply. Ti!lOeS not included. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd FlocJ 
Chicago, 1160610 

311-951·0585 
u 
V1 
• 
V1 
0 • 
() 
z 
0 
< 
w 
• 
w 
V1 

<( 
• Teach For America. The National Teacher z Corps, recruits dynamic individuals from all 
0 academic majors and diverse cultural < u backgrounds to teach in under-resourced 
:J 
0 urban and rural public schools for at least w two \ears. Education course work is not 
< 
:J required. Corps members become full­() time salaried teachers and become actively
z 
-1 
involved 11ith the communities in which they work. Salaries range from $15,000-$29,500 
• 
and parti.ll cancellation (Perkins/NDSL) or 
>­
1-­
deferment (Stafford!GSL) of loans is possible. 
n:: w Come hear how you can 
> 
0 
make adifference! 
Q_ 
based Inkatha Freedom Party. 
In Natal Province and espe­cially the Zulu homeland of KwaZulu, there is a checker­board of loyalties from village to village, with some loyal to one group and some the other. 
The ANC, gearing up to con­test the country's first non­racial elections next year, had planned a rally in the area Sunday, but canceled after it heard there might be trouble, 
the  South  African  Press  
Association said.  
South  African  police  

spokesman Maj. Bala Naidoo said that police had remained in the area into the afternoon as a precaution . 
The attack took place about four miles from the rally site, at the homestead of Chief Alpheus Molefe of Nqutu. 
The chief was injured in the attack and his son, Tsepo, was killed, the SAPA agency said. Nine of those killed were re-
Vl 
n 
m 
z n 
• 
< 
0 
m 
z 
n m 
• 
n 
0 ;;: 
c 
--1 
m 

SPRING BREAK '94 ~ ~ , FROM $ 5 2 9 N~~,~~1Y /_8 Day•l7 N;::::{i,;~:;;' & Mo"7 I 11:) (.,_/ FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT; [!)~ COREY OR BOB AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS I,W-5 5 I 1 -8 0 0 -8 7 5-4 5 2 5 ToURs PARTIES EVER NITE!! OPEN BAR 10:30 PM-3:00AM  
"One ofAmerica's Leading Thinke~s" Time & Newsweek Magazines THE NOTRE DAME LAW REVIEW IS PLEASED TO PRESENT: Dr. Russell Kirk "The Catholic Natural Law Tradition and the American Constitution" Date: Wednesday, November 10, 1993 Time: 2 p.m. Place: Notre Dame Law School Courtroom ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND TillS l'HESENTATIO:'II IS MAI>F. I'OSSSIBLE TIIIWliC;II A C;J{ANT BY TilE INTEIH ·oLLEGIATE STUDIES INSTITliTI~  

v. 

TEACH FOR AMERICA • 
Information Session 
.z 
m 

at 0 c 
Univ. of Notre Dame 
•

Tuesday, November 9 at 7 p.m.
I 

Center for Social 
• Concerns-Rm. 124 
For more information, contact .::1 .J'Ollr career sen,ice office or call: z 
1-800·TFA-1230 e.\·t.12o ;. 
• I L 1 ! ~-r .; c: Y • Sr c c 1 A L E [) ,_, c .; T 1 o N • W R 1 r 1hJ i i • 

WIN FLORIDA STATE TICKETS 
jOIN US AT THE TERRACE LOUNGE AT THE SOUTH BEND MAluuOTT for 
1M[(0)NIIJ)AY NrrCGIHrlr JF(0) caYJ.rrnAILIL 
~~ o\ t.~ S b h k h AllYou
\P et' top ry eac wee to enter t e p can 
~~~ ' izZa p eat 
~e\te~~ote· FLORIDA STATE RAFFLE 0 nly $57 ~Drawing to be held November 8, 1993 for 2 tickets to the Notre Dame Game'P 
(MUST BE PRESENT To WIN) 
TERRACE LOUNGE 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 
------------·-----.--------..-----­
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 8, 1993 
~ ~~-~­
Georgian troops leave rebel base 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 

TBILISI, Georgia 
Georgian leader Eduard 
Shevardnadze ordered gov­
ernment troops out of the rebel 
stronghold of Zugdidi on 
Sunday to avoid "unpleasant 
incidents" between his forces 
and the town's residents. 

Shevardnadze's troops cap­tured Zugdidi on Saturday without resistance from forces trying to restore ousted na­tionalist President Zviad Gamsakhurdia. 
"We had to terminate the fas­cist actions of Gamsakhurdia," Shevardnadze said Sunday in Zugdidi while meeting with civilians and policemen. "Now it is high time to restore normal life to Georgia." 
Zaza Kandalaki, a spokesman for the Georgian leader, said the decision to leave Zugdidi in the hands of police was "taken by Shevardnadze to avoid un­pleasant incidents between its 
inhabitants" and government 
troops. 

Last week, Shevardnadze 
promised to try to prevent any 
looting in rebel territory by the 
paramilitary groups that make 
up his army, which has been 
prone to pillaging captured 
towns in the past. 

On Saturday, Georgian Defense Ministry spokesman Giya Chikovani said rebel lead­ers, including Gamsakhurdia, had fled north to Abkhazia, a province controlled by sepa­ratists. But Abkhazian officials denied he was there. 
In five weeks of fighting, Gamsakhurdia's forces had inflicted a series of humililtting defeats on government troops, demoralized by the recent loss of Abkhazia, a rich province along the Black Sea. 
But a week ago, buoyed by support from Russian troops sent to guard railroads and other key facilities in the for­mer Soviet republic, Shevardnadze's forces took the offensive. 
It wasn't clear whether the 
victory would hold. Less than 
two years ago, government 
troops marched into Zugdidi to 
crush Gamsakhurdia's forces. 
Many residents of the area, Gamsakhurdia's home province, continued to wage a guerrilla war. 
On Sunday, four pro­Shevardnadze soldiers and two civilians were killed in a "ter­rorist act" in a village near Khobi, a government-held town in western Georgia, Defense Ministry spokesman Soso Margishvili said on Georgian TV. He gave no further details. 
Shevardnadze's appeal for Russian help has opened him up to the nationalist rebels' ac­cusations he surrendered the country to Moscow. 
Gamsakhurdia was Georgia's first democratically elected president. Accused of dictato­rial rule, he was ousted in a military revolt in January 1992. 
The Observer/Laura Grondahl 
Light reading 
Holy Cross Hall resident Carissa Hernandez catches up on her stud­ies outside. Recent cold weather has forced many students to retreat indoors to study, making scenes like this less common. 
ACOMEDY BY LARRY SHUE DIRECTED BY JAMES P. BIRDER 


THURS., FRI., SAT., NOV. 11, 12, 13 AT 8 P.M. SUN.,NOV.14AT2:30P.M. MOREAU CENTER/UTILE THEATRE 
---1!1--­

TICKETS $4 SM"S-ND COMMUNITIES: Saint Mary's Colle~ $3 STUDENTS: ON SALE AT THE 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 

SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE: INFORMATION, CHARGE ORDERS: 219/284-4626. 
6D "Since 1981" 

~ ~!:~~~ 

=-..t.:.:=.:..L.......I 

Notre Dame & Saint Mary's This week's students' specials Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday 
* 
large pizza with up to 3 toppings for $10 

* 
spaghetti dinner with meat or tomato sauce $3.50 


Carry-out or Dine-in! 
1412 South Bend Ave. 232-4244 
A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD 

©[S[!)J[ID ~~ ~ 
~/J+o~

;RESENTS: ~~ ~<+ 
~'tfJ $ ~1J]7~ ·~~ 
.ji' ~"'
234-4015 qThe Biggest Value North of the Border 11\ 
BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 234-4015 
INTERESTED IN PLANNING 



SENIOR MONTH/ SENIOR WEEK? 
THERE WILL BE AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8TH AT 6 P.M. IN THE FOSTER ROOM 
ANY QUESTIONS, CALL JULIE AT 282-2965 
Monday, November 8, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Low interest rate era may be over Clinton says living wills 
By DAVID KALISH will go up. one-week climb in nearly two 
years, according HSH can curb medical costs Associated Press But late last month the mar­to 
ket took a sharp turn for the Associates, a Butler, N.J.-based 
NEW YORK worse. On Friday, prices on the publisher of mortgage informa­By H. JOSEF HEBERT "I think families should think 
A jump in interest rates has government's benchmark 30-tion. Associated Press about living wills and should caused headaches for prospec­year bond fell for the sixth con­Other potential outcomes have them," said Clinton, tive home buyers and the fi­secutive trading day as yields could be good or bad, depend­WASHINGTON adding that the decision is a nancial community alike. But shot up to 6.2 percent-nearly ing on who you are. President Clinton urged fami­personal one for each individ­what does it mean and how one-half percentage point high­Savers could reap higher lies Sunday to consider living ual and family to make. long will it last? er than just three weeks ago. yields on bank certificates of wills that stipulate when an ail­"It's not something the gov­
The rise added at least $20 to deposit. Investors may see their ing person should be allowed to ernment should impose on an average monthly house pay­While analysts are sharply bond and stock mutual funds die, suggesting "that's one way them," he said during the in­ment. It also has left financial mixed on the market's prog­plunge in value. Business and to weed... out" some question­terview in the Oval Office. analysts, investors and econo­nosis, the impact already is rip­consumer loan rates could go able health care costs. mists fretting over a potential pling through an economy that up. "I certainly would sign one," The subject came up in the multibillion-dollar rate hike for recently thrived on two-decade Clinton said, adding that he had context of overall health care the economy. low interest rates -including Meanwhile, bond market in­discussed the issue with his costs and the fact that huge 
an unexpected spurt in new vestors, who conduct multimil­wife, Hillary, whose father died medical expenses are often in­
Their worries result from a home sales in September. lion-dollar deals every day, are earlier this year after a linger­curred by patients near death. recent phenomenon in the U.S. "Mortgage rates will move suddenly worried that the re­ing illness and a stroke. "We do have a lot of extra Treasury market, where the significantly higher," predicted cent scare could leave them It has been estimated that as costs that most people believe actions of financial traders buy­William Sullivan, director of holding bonds with little de­much as a third of the country's are unnecessary in this system, ing and selling government money market research at mand for them. medical costs stem from care and that's one way to weed bonds ultimately influence a Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "It "It's a very psychological and given in the final year of life. some of them out," Clinton said wide spectrum of interest rates. may dent the ability of the jittery market right now," said Medical experts say par­when asked about a living will. 
Until recently, the Treasury housing market to register fur­Peter McTeague, market strate­ticularly high costs can be in­But Clinton said he would not market was rallying powerfully, ther improvement." gist at Technical Data in curred when trying to keep favor the medical profession's 
allowing investors to reap Indeed, prospective home Boston. someone alive against high curbing the technological ad­handsome profits by selling buyers may need to sprint to odds, vances that have allowed physi­bonds at higher prices than the bank to cash in on low A recent string of government During an appearance on cians to prolong life. 
they bought them for. rates. reports pointing to stronger NBC's ''Meet the Press," "I do not believe we want to 
The rally spurred a big drop growth in sales of homes, autos Clinton cited the death in 1968 tell people they can't have pro­in interest rates this year, since Rates on 30-year fixed mort­and other goods, and the first of his stepfather, Roger Clinton, cedures that have a realistic investors settle for lower yields gages shot up to 7.17 percent expansion of manufacturing after a bout with cancer, and chance of saving their lives and if they are confident that the Friday from 6.97 percent the since May, helped result in a the death last April of his returning them to normal," value of their bond holdings previous w.eek -the biggest bond selloff Friday. father-in-law Hu!!h Rodham. said Clinton. 
JOHN DENSMORE, First Lady criticizes doctor specialization 
DRUMMER FOR . .
By H. JOSEF HEBERT conference of medical educa-. and th~n took questiOns f:~m
THE DOORS LIVE Associated Press tors. the audience of school admmis-
IN CONCERT! But after her remarks, sev-trators, teachers and students. 
WASHINGTON eral medical students told A University of Chicago stu-
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7p.m. Hillary Rodham Clinton criti-Clinton they saw no advantage dent complained that she eame 
cized the medical profession to going into general practice, from a poor family, has had to 
$12 Reserved Seating Price and government aid programs where the pay and prestige is struggle to get to medical 
includes admission to an infor­Sunday for pushing young doc~ less than that enjoyed by spe-school and felt "disadvantaged 
mal book signing reception for tors into specialties at the cialists. all over again" by having to 
expense of general practice and "Why should I choose pri-commit herself to a primary
his book 

said the trend must be re-mary care when generalists do care practice to get a low-inter­"Riding on the Storm: versed. not receive the same respect, est education loan. The Doors, The Sixties, The primary care physician is recognition or reimbursements key to the success of the admin-that other medical specialists This time, Clinton's reply had
& Now" 

istration's proposal to revamp receive?" asked David Knutson, a sharper edge. Tickets available at Morris Civic the nation's health care system a third-year medical student at "It's about time that we start and provide care for all the University of Iowa. thinking about the common 
(219) 235-9190and 1-800-537-6415. Americans, the first lady told a Clinton said the characteriza-good, the national interest, in­


Sports and the Media 
On Thursday November 11 Rudy Martzke, USA Today's premiere sports columnist and one of The Sporting News' 100 Most Powerful People in sports, will offer insight to the business side oftelevision in sports and discuss the ND-FSU match-up. Admission is Free LaFortune Ballroom at 8:00pm. 
tion "is unfortunately an accu­stead of just individuals in our rate description" of the situa­country," she told the student. tion in the medical profession ''I'm sorry if you feel personally today. She said the administra­disadvantaged." tion's health care reforms hope Clinton criticized government "to reverse that description" by aid programs for financing enhancing the status of general training for specialties at the practitioners. expens·e of general practice, 
saying one result is that most 
But the issue didn't go away doctors shy away from primary at the conference of the care. Association of American Today, 70 percent of the Medical Colleges, where Clinton practicing U.S. physicians are outlined the proposed reforms in specialties. 
THOMAS GEOGHEGAN 
Chicago Labor Attorney and Author 
"Passionate Unions: Labor Law Reform and Economic Recovery" 
Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
4:30 p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Sponsored By: Higgins Labor Research Center Center for Social Concerns Economics Department White Center on Law & Government 
page 8 The Observer • MIDDLE-EASTERN NEWS Monday, November 8, 1993 
PLO official confesses to spying for Israel 
Aasociated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain 
A PLO communications ex­pert in Tunisia has confessed to spying for Israel. a Saudi newspaper reported Sunday, in the second allegation in a week of an Israeli spy in the 
r>to. 
The new report heightened fears that a full-scale espi­onage network had extensively infiltrated the Tunis headquar­ters of the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
The London-based Arabic daily Asharq Al-Awsat said Mohammed Sadeq. who was in charge of the PLO's radio com­munications service. sur­rendered and confessed last week. 
The communications center in Hamam ei-Chatt. about 20 miles south of Tunis, was re­sponsible for sending PLO Chairman Vasser Ararat's coded messages to his offices around the world. 
The newspaper quoted unidentified ·Palestinian secu­rity sources as saying Sadeq's spying was uncovered follow· ing reports last week that Adnan Yassen, a PLO consular official in Tunis, confessed he worked for Mossad, Israel's spy agency. 
The Asharq Al·Awsat news· paper said PLO .sources would· n't comment further on the new case until an investigation into Yassen was complete. 
Tunisian police found wire­less bugging devices planted by Yassen in PLO offices, PLO sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Saturday. 
The listening devices may have allowed the Israelis to hear PLO strategy sessions for the secret Norway talks this fall on peace plans with Israel. Arafat participated in the ses­sions. 

By LISA TALESNICK 
Associated Press 
BElT KAHEL, Occupied West 
Bank 

Palestinian gunmen opened fire Sunday on a car carrying a prominent right-wing rabbi, killing his driver and injuring the rabbi. 
Jewish settlers responded with protests, a veiled threat to murder Arabs in revenge, and reported shootings of Palestinians. 
Rabbi Haim Druchman, a for­mer legislator of the right-wing National Religious Party, suf­fered light wounds in the arm and shoulder. His driver, Gaza Strip settler Ephraim Ayubi, was killed, the army said. 
They were traveling near the Palestinian village of Beit Kabel outside Hebron when Arabs in a passing vehicle opened fire, the army said. 
It was unclear whether Druchman, a founder of the Gush Emunim settler move­ment, had been targeted. West 
Appeals made before election in Jordan 
By JAMAL HALABY 
Associated Press 
AMMAN, Jordan 
Candidates made last-minute appeals Sunday for votes in Jordan's first multiparty elec­tions since 1956, in which pro­ponents of peace with Israel are expected to retain a major­ity in parliament. 
Monday's elections come af­ter Israeli officials confirmed over the weekend that Jordan and Israel are close to reaching a peace agreement. King Hussein has not yet made any public comment. 
While Muslim fundamental­ists are expected to win the sin­gle largest bloc in the 80-seat lower house of parliament. con­servative and tribal members who support Hussein's pro­peace policy are expected to keep a majority of seats. 
The bicameral legislature must ratify any peace agree­ment, although Hussein retains ultimate authority with the power to dissolve parliament and rule by decree. The 40-seat upper house is appointed by Hussein and normally backs him. 
Jordan and Israel signed an agenda for peace talks on Sept. 14, a day after Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization reached a peace accord that provides for Palestinian self-rule in the oc­cupied territories. 
But while peace has played a role in campaigns, Jordanians appear more concerned with poverty and unemployment. The country is straining under a $6.5 billion foreign debt and $4 billion in losses stemming from 1990-91 Gulf crisis, when trade with Iraq, Jordan's biggest trading partner, was blocked. 
For the most part the cam­paign ended peacefully. Police briefly detained a Muslim fun­damentalist candidate after he and supporters roughed up two members of a moderate Islamic party, the state-run Petra news agency said. 
Candidates held rallies, passed out fliers and pounded the pavement to win support in this nation of 3. 9 million peo­ple. They placed hundreds of ads in the mass circulation Al­Rai daily promising a better fu­ture. 
Thousands of banners re­mained draped over streets and tens of thousands of posters have been plastered on lamp­posts and shop windows. 
The fundamentalist Muslim Brotherhood and leftist groups oppose the U.S.-backed peace process. The Brotherhood ad-
Palestinians kill Israeli driver 
Bank commander Gen. Nehemiya Tamari told re­porters that the shooting had been random. 
The Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a PLO faction led by Nayef Hawatmeh, took responsibility for the at­tack in an announcement in Damascus. Syria. The group opposes the Israel-PLO peace talks. 
But Israel radio said authori­ties believed the attack was carried out by the militant Islamic group Hamas, also op­posed to the peace talks. 
The killing, on a busy road linking Hebron to the Mediterranean coast, was the second in the occupied West Bank in two weeks. The stab­bing of a settler Oct. 29 set off several days of riots. 
Aharon Domb, a spokesman for the settlers, said they would make sure the territories would "roar and tremble as long as Jews are being killed every week." 
In Hebron, Jewish settlers 
from the nearby Kiryat Arba settlement burned Arab cars and rampaged through the market smashing windows, overturning tables and shooting in the air, Arab reporters said. Three Arabs were reportedly treated for bullet wounds in the legs or arms. 
A fourth Palestinian was shot in the chest while driving by Kfar Darom, the Gaza settle­ment where Ayubi lived, Arab reports said. 
Palestinians retaliated with firebomb assaults on Israeli cars in the Jerusalem area and the West Bank, but no one was injured, Israeli reports said. The army erected roadblocks throughout the territories to search for the Arab gunmen and closed off the Hebron area. Most Palestinians were pre­vented from entering Israel, where many work. 
Several hundred settlers tied up traffic in downtown Jerusalem by sitting down in a main road after Ayubi's fu­neral. 
vocates Israel's destruction while the leftists say the pro­cess has failed to provide for a Palestinian state. 
Both groups appear to have failed to turn their opposition into an election winner, even though half the population is of Palestinian descent. Analysts said the lineup in the parlia­ment was unlikely to change much. 
The Brotherhood had 22 seats in the outgoing parlia­ment. It was a thorn in the side of the government, but the chamber largely backed Hussein. The left, meanwhile, is split among communists, Baathists and pan-Arab na­tionalists. 
Tribal leaders, who form the bedrock of Hussein's support, were likely to increase their power. They stand to benefit most from a new one-person, one-vote system that weakens the Brotherhood's electoral backing. 
I HATE Birthdays! But, NOT this one! 
Happy 21st! Angie 
Love, Mom, Dad, Christie Boris, Natasha, Buff & Fish 

The Con.troversy C:ontinuesO.C\~ Tomorrow 


Phyllis Sch1afly
Reagan Advisor 

7:30pm Stepan $3 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
ITlUJIRl~rEV ~~JOOT 
TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15 4-6 PM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16 4-6 PM 
CO-REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN & 2 MEN PER TEAM OPEN TO UNDERGRAD & GRADUATE STUDENTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
CONDUCTED BYNOTRE DAME NAVAL ROTC MEMBERS OF ROTC RIFLE SQUAD l:!QI ELIGIBLE 
00@ ~liil~~D~OO©~ OO~©~@®~~W STADIUM GATE 14 

\1Jl~®~W .01 ~. 
U.:R.:BA.N PLU.NG.E -@ 
UU\1 REa'L8TRA.T'LON D:E.ADL'LN:E 
NOV£n1l:ER 8 
REGISTRATION INFORMATION AVAILABLE: 
ND:  "'Center for Social  
Concerns  
"'Campus Ministry:  
l3adin HallI Hesburgh  
Library  
"'Dorm Representatives  
SMC:  ~Multicultural  Office  
~  Campus Ministry  
,... Justice Education  







VIEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News EditOr ................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager .................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .....•.............. George Dohrmann -Production Manager. ....................... Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Batth Photo Edimr ................................. Jake Perers OTS Ditecror ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Ediror ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univetsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, 
Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advettising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Phoro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

totally integrated upper class­man could be intimidating and embarrassing to a frosh. 
Look; I am here, you are there. I know only what The Observer reports. The Observer reports rites that seem out of place and out of touch. Maybe they are not out of place. In re reading the Sept. 30 article I notice that not all of the stu­dents think that these rites ar, great fun. · 
On a related note: Dorm Identity... How much 1 is1 enough? The dorms look dif­ferent for the most part. Zahm does not look like Sorin. Should · the students from one dorm be significantly different from an­other? One dorm might excell at fund raisers; another might be known for excellent pre­game food. But should not the student mix be similar? It has been a long time since the North Quad was the Freshman Quad. How much real distinc­tion versus marketing hype? Try to make sure that dorm identity does not create a "us vs. them" head set. 
ROBERT RETTIG 
Notre Dame Class of 1972 
Loveland, Ohio 
I DON'T i<NOfAJ,5/D. 
I JUSTWN'T7H!NK 
I'M KiGHTFOR 17. 
QU/Vfi?S 9-WW8& 
PLAYW8YA 8LACI<. 
AC?R£.55. 
.k'f;7....-"--:;,, f 
page 9 

PoP GoES THE WEASEL 
Something to learn about ND's scene 
Dear Editor: frightfully sheltered or just not not grunge? Granted, it's the 
As a member of the bands care at all about music. MTV "alternative nation" ver­
emiLy and Spoonfed, and as a Second, all the bands I have sion of gr~ge, not real grunge, 
friend of the members of the mentioned play all or mostly which w a style of big ugly 
campus and post-campus bands self-penned tunes and have rock play d by bands like the 
July, True North, Bother(rip), done so since they began play­Melvins, ad, Soundgarden, 
Victoria's Real Secret, Eli ing together. They don't write Green River, and Nirvana, 
Parker and the C.I.A's, Chisel, a few originals for release, then influenced by 70s metal bands 
and Pinchpciint I would like to play mostly covers live. They like Black Sabbath. 
express my utter disagreement are talented and driven song­I hazard to guess that your 
with, bordering on contempt writers and musicians who are understanding of the last few 
for, the opinions put forth by attempting to stretch the years of underground music 
the members of the grunge boundaries of the styles of the isn't all that pervasive, for if it 
cover band XYZ Affair. music they play, or they are at was then you might have the 
"The other bands on campus least attempting to infuse some musical ears to realize the 
are wimps," they say. life into this campus' so often depth of the musical skill and 
First of all, such a statement stagnant artistic life. They are ideas that exist on this campus, 
displays arrogance and a not recycling the same old right under your nose. So I'm 
frightening close-mindedness to trash. Stagging these musi­going to assume tha.t's not the 
the music happening under cians so offhandedly and un­point you were trying to make. 
your noses. By being so con­groundedly was idiotic, adoles­To close, we would all appre­
cerned with your own great­cent and rude. ciate it if in the future you re­
ness, you miss all the vital mu­They claim "we are not frained from misrepresenting 
sic going on around the cam­grunge". One day, when they yourselves and misrepresenting 
pus. From July's beautiful in­were playing on the quad I a music scene you, in your 
tricate pop to the C.I.A.'s raging found myself a captive audi­solipsistic self-worship, haven't 
take on Headcoats-esque ence, as I had work to do in a even bothered to learn about. 
garagey surf/blues stylings to second floor LaFortune office. Thank you. 
emiLy's melodic punk rock, During fifteen minutes of their 
there is a great deal of power­set, I heard a Stone Temple JOE CANNON . ful music happening here. To Pilots song, Pearl Jam, and Senior miss this, one must either be Alice in Chains. What is this if Off-campus 

Monday, November 8, 1993 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dorm initiation ceremonies smack of dreaded fraternities' 
Dear Editor: 
Artictes from The Observer (Sept. 30 and Oct. 19) prompt this letter of observation and opinion. 
The proclamations from the Office of Student Affairs are of­ten viewed with amusement, indifference, distain, or out­rage. I find it unusual that I concur with Student Affairs on their censure of hall initiations. 
Hall initiations smack of fra­ternalism: i.e. fraternities and sororities. At du Lac, hall initia­tions sound like "closed shop" fraternities_ Admissions says that you can come here; hous­ing tells you where. At colleges and universities where sorori­ties and fraternities exist. alter­natives exist. There is a choice made in rushing and pledging. There are dorms and off-cam­pus for the non Greek inclined. Individuals get to make individ­ual choices. 
Freshman year, especially the first weeks, is a daunting expe­rience. We try to find our place, or our path, that will integrate us into the community at Notre Dame. Any activity that is not totally welcoming should be curtailed. What is good fun to a 
DOONESBURY 
IXJN'T GIV& M& THATP.C. CRAP, 8aJPSII3.' THIS 
ROL£/SNQT A %T-A5//?&., 
CIfJesus had wanted to make a woman an Apostle He could have done so.' 
from a pamphlet against the ordination ofwomen to the priesthood 

page 10 Monday, November 8, 1993 


VIEWPOINT 
CHARLES RICE RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Gay rights supporters should spread word ofAIDS 
Columnist could be a hypocrite, too 
In the October 14 issue of The Observer, 276 faculty and staff members signed an ad to "affirm our conviction that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ought to become safer places for those in them who are ad­dressing questions about their sexual orientation." The sign­ers' intention was "to offer some help to the vulnerable." That intention was commend­able. Contrary to their intent, however, the signers rendered a serious disservice to those they sought to serve, the "les­bian, gay, and bisexual mem­bers of our community." 
The main explicit thrust of the ad was to oppose various forms of "harassment" of ho­mosexuals including "physical 
violence." On this point the care, in employment of teach­
Catholic Church has spoken in ers or athletic coaches, and in similar terms. "It is de­military recruitment." plorable," said the In speaking publicly on the 
Congregation for the Doctrine issue, the signers of the ad of the Faith in 1986, "that ho­owed a duty to speak the whole mosexual persons have been truth. Instead, the ad avoided and are the object of violent the bedrock realities that a ho­malice in speech or in action. mosexual tendency is itself a Such treatment deserves con­disorder and that homosexual demnation from the Church's activity is always intrinsically pastors wherever it occurs... wrong. "Although the particular The intrinsic dignity of each inclination of the homosexual person must always be re­person is not a sin," said the spected in word, in actions and 1986 Congregation statement, law." "it is a more or less strong ten­
However, "the proper reac­dency ordered toward an tion to crimes committed intrinsic moral evil; and thus against homosexual persons the inclination itself must be 
should not be to claim that the seen as an objective disorder." 
homosexual condition is not We can be sure that the sign­disordered. When such a claim ers of the ad genuinely care is made and when homosexual about the welfare of homosex­activity is consequently con­ual persons at Notre Dame. But doned...neither the Church they failed to tell them the nor society at large should be whole truth. If one really cared surprised when other distorted about a person with a tendency notions and practices gain toward shoplifting, he would at ground, and irrational and vio­least tell that person the truth lent reactions increase." about that tendency and why its 
Incidentally, as the practice is contrary to human Congregation stated in an advi­nature and the law of God. He sory letter to the American would encourage that person, bishops in 1992, "There are not to be "comfortable" with his areas in which it is not unjust orientation, but to pray for the discrimination to take sexual grace to overcome it. And he orientation into account. for ex­would not exhort the commu­ample, in the placement of chil­nity to "comfortably tolerate" dren for adoption or foster and "fully protect" such 
Wear The Shirt on Saturday 
Dear Editor: But then I remembered that 
Upon seeing the newest in this is a free country where designed sportswear freedom of expression is one of "Catholics vs. Creminoles" (gad, our most cherished rights ­what creativity!) -I was al­even if this personal expression ready mentally preparing a (emblazoned on your chest, for lengthy missive decrying the example) is one of ignorance lack of taste of these shirts. and immaturity. Need more 
I wanted to point out how the proof of these basic rights? true spirit of Notre Dame is not Look in the bookstore under the pursuit of a buck at the ex­(Just Plain) Looney, Doug: pense of someone else's repu­Under the Tarnished Dome. tation (can you imagine Hockne Same thing. wearing a "Catholics vs. Those of you who aren't in Hednecks" shirt?}. I wanted to need of a clue for a Christmas preach that if we really "are present will do the right thing ND," we value support of our and cheer yourself hoarse for own classmates and dorm­the Irish on Saturday. Be mates over sophomoric at­classy. Wear The Shirt. Support tempts at humor aimed at the Irish and the rest will take someone else. I wanted to re­care of itself. mind people that wearing these shirts simply confirms to out­PETER PRANICA siders our alleged arrogance Notre Dame Class of 1986 and "holier than thou" attitude. Notre Dame, ln. 

"human diversity." 
All the more so with the ho­mosexual tendency, the prac­tice of which is potentially sui­cidal to the participants. According to the Centers for Disease Control, through the end of 1992, 57 percent of adult or adolescent AIDS cases in the United States were homosexual or bisexual men and six percent were homosexual or bisexual IV drug users while 23 percent were other IV drug users. San Francisco officials estimate that, of the 58,000 homosexual men in that city, 43 percent are HIV positive. It takes an aver­age of 8.5 years for someone with HIV to develop AIDS, as they all do, and those with AIDS live an average of 3.5-4 years. 
In the face of this appalling reality, the signers of the ad offered not one word of counsel to homosexuals to avoid the po­tentially suicidal practice of their disordered inclination. And the imprecision of the ad's language invited a justifiable inference that the signers do not regard the homosexual ten­dency as disordered and its practice as intrinsically evil. The ad laments that "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are not always places where human diversity is comfortably toler­and that its practice is a valid personal option. "If the writer of the ad and any signers intended to convey that impression, they should have had the candor to put those views up front rather than to insinuate them by omis­sion and imprecision. If they had such an implicit agenda, they poorly served the homo­sexuals who can act on the ad's inferences only at peril to their lives as well as their souls. 
If any signers did not intend to convey a benign impression as to the disorder and its prac­tice, they ought to be more careful about signing mass-cir­culated pronouncements, in­cluding especially those printed on lavender paper as this one was. If the signers want to 

tected." What are they trying to "offer some help to the vulner­say? able," they ought to start by 
The term, "human diversity" telling them the whole truth. is broad enough to include ac-And they could well reflect on tion as well as tendency. If that the fact that the "vulnerable" diversity is to be "comfortably include not only persons of tolerated," whose comfort level homosexual inclination, but es­are they talking about? Is an pecially the innocent victims of affirmation of the whole truth the plague unleashed by homo­about homosexual tendency sexual activity. and practice now barred by the According to the National canons of political correctness, Hemophilia Foundation, 50 per­since it might make homosexu-cent of the nation's 20,000 als "uncomfortable"? And how hemophiliacs are infected with should that diversity be "fully HIV or have developed AIDS. protected," if not by attempting The "vulnerable" would include to legitimize the wrongful prac-the 32 lab technicians, nurses tice as well as the disordered and other health-care workers inclination? reported by the Centers for 
Whoever wrote the text of the Disease Control to have con­ad revealed either his inability tracted HIV on the job. And to write clear and precise they would include the 3,665 English, or his desire to craft a pediatric cases who contracted statement of sufficiently artful the disease from a parent. vagueness that it could be The effect of the ad was to signed by people no matter promote, through vague Ian­what they thought about the guage and omission of the homosexual tendency and its whole truth, an ideological practice. Which brings us back agenda which is harmful to the to the point of this essay. common good and to the ho-
The signers of the ad, by their mosexuals at Notre Dame. The omission of a specific af-signers of that ad who do not firmation that the homosexual support that agenda meant tendency is disordered and its well. But they ought, in fair­practice objectively evil, con-ness, to run another ad to set veyed the impression that those the record straight. realities are tangential to the Professor Rice is on the Law homosexual issue, that the ten-School faculty. His column ap­dency is a neutral pears every other Mon 
:n:::~~ 
we don't have a chance? I be faulted if our opponents think he just wants some atten­can't live up to their standards? tion. I for one feel we initiated the 
Fact is, upsets are a part of downfall of the mighty sports history (if the team that Wolverines with our 27-23 vic­should win, always won, we'd tory in Ann Arbor which essen­never watch, would we?). Let tially ended their national me guess, in 1980, de Aguiar championship hopes. told everyone that the Russians I am not going to make a pre­would destroy our Olympic diction for the upcoming "Game hockey team. A little research of the Century." I merely seek might even unearth an old edi­to defend the hopes of thou­torial of his about the future sands of Irish fans from this romp by the 1984 Georgetown callous and unnecessary piece. Hoyas over the lowly Villanova We know we're up against a Wildcats. Anyway, it's not as if powerhouse. Some of us have Notre Dame has ever beaten faith, others turn yellQw and the odds and pulled off a big take the easy way out. I only upset. hope de Aguiar is not in the 
As for our "joke schedule" stands on Nov. 13, since that (sic) please realize that they are would only make him a hyp­made years in advance against ocrite too. projected top quality oppo­nents. In the preseason polls, KEVIN CAMMARATA six teams we had to play were Senior ranked in the top 25. Are we to Keenan Hall 

Dear Editor: 
I must say that Rolando de Aguiar really went out on a limb in his recent Inside Column (The Observer, Nov. 2) by boldly pronouncing that Florida State will trample the Irish on Nov. 13. Let's look at his prediction: FSU, the fa­vorite, will win big. That cer­tainly took a great deal of imag­ination. 
Was there any reason to write this column? Irish fans have been eyeing this game since opening day, hoping that if we could enter it undefeated, we'd have a legitimate shot at the national championship. In two weeks, we will. However, after reading de Aguiar's proclamation, I think I'd rather just scalp my ticket and spend the afternoon watching in­fomercials on the local cable channels. Does he really think 





ACCENT 
Monday, November 8, 1993 page 11 
Tim Burto~'s 'The Nightmare Before Christmas' 
is a warped, wacky masterpiece 
MOVIE REVIEW JIM DOWD 
W
among which include severed ith "The Nightmare heads, possessed ducks, and Before Christmas," Tim hungry snakes. . Burton has created a visually The Christmas spirit perme­stunning, wholly original mas­ates Burton's film, transporting terpiece. Burton has taken all the audience into another of his creativity and warped world. charm, pouring them into this wacky tale about holiday spirit. Watching the bizarre imagi­
nation of Burton combine the 
The plot follows the protago­two holidays is both funny and nist, Jack Skeleton, who is the amazing. pumpkin king of Halloween Burton, a master of special town. This town, complete with effects, does not disappoint in 
this film; each scene is a feast
B
urton, a master of 
for the eye. Through Burton's special effects, does glorious animation, the charac­ters come alive.
not disappoint in this film; 
each scene is a feast for In some cases, however, the pure weirdness of the charac­
the eye. 
ters called out for more devel­
opment. Much like a Disney at­vampires, zombies, and "trick­traction, there was almost too or-treaters," celebrates Hal­much to behold in each scene. loween lavishly every year. 
Jack grows tired of the holi­Despite this, the film's special day and goes in search of effects alone make it enjoyable something new and different. to watch. When the script His journey takes him to the called for action, Burton's high­middle of the forest where he is flying motion sequences were magically transported to truly dizzying. Christmas world. The melodious score to 
"Nightmare" is another reason 
Jack falls in love with the joy to see it. Danny Elfman's score, and cheer of this world, and despite the triteness of his decides to merge the two holi­lyrics, is pure enchantment. days by bringing Christmas to The tunes are catchy, with Elf­Halloween town. man himself supplying the 
To effect this merger, Santa is voice of Jack. kidnapped and imprisoned by Dogie Boogie, the devilish shad­His deep baritone rumbles ow who haunts Halloween through the gritty songs, while world. his heavenly falsetto carries the 
romantic ones. 
Jack then becomes Santa For seventy minutes, "A and, along with skeletal rein­Nightmare Before Christmas" is deer and a coffin as his sleigh, guaranteed to captivate and delivers presents to children, impress you. 
Piano concert to celebrate classical roinantic coinposers 
W
By THOMAS KANE fessor of music at Notre Dame. will perform 24 preludes by Chopin. Chopin, only his works are longer," said Accent writer Cerny, a former chairman of the Notre "Chopin featured a different mood Cerny. Dame music department will celebrate with each prelude," said Cerny. "His preludes exhibit his unique brand hile the political relations these influences in a piano program of brooding Romanticism coupled with between the East and West have entitled, "The Romantic Prelude," which "All are short and contain moods such only recently warmed up, politics have will feature the preludes of Frederic as melancholy, brilliance, lyricism, "[The preludes] are short never interfered with audiences' appre­Chopin and Sergey Rachmaninoff, two of dramatism, and introspection. The pre­and contain moods such ciation of Slavik composers. the most important Slavik composers of ludes are a compendium of Romanti­
as melancholy, brilliance, lyri­
the nineteenth century, according to cism." "How could we have been in a cold Cerny. The second half of the concert will cism, dramatism, and introspec­tion. The preludes are a com­pendium of Romanticism." 
William Cerny 

his unequaled flair for pianistic sonori­ties." 
Although Chopin and Rachmaninoff have variations in style, Cerny described both as "very colorful, chromatic harmonicists" who characterize the era in which they lived 
Since coming to Notre Dame, Cerny has maintained an active performing schedule, performing on campus and at other universities as both a soloist and chamber musician. 
He has also made five guest ap­­pearences with the Chicago Symphony String Quartet. 
Cerny came to Notre Dame from the Eastman School of Music in New York, where he taught courses in the humani­ties and music literature. 
The concert will take place on Nov. 14 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Admission is free and open to the public. 


~---------­


:ACCENT
page 12 Monday, November 8, 1993 
Rocky Mountain rockers 
Colorado's Big Head Todd and the Monsters come to Notre Dame 
MUSIC REVIEW ROB ADAMS 
B
ig Head Todd and the Mon­California Daily. playing some intense harmonica sters is made up of Todd In 1992, Big Head Todd and and Nevin at his creative best Park Mohr (guitar, keyboards, the Monsters signed on with the with a breathtaking drum solo. harmonica, and vocals), Hob major label Giant after receiving Also on "Midnight Radio" is Squires (bass, vocals) and Brian a deal which would enable them "Bittersweet," the best song that Nevin (drums,percussion, to play their music the way they the band has ever recorded. vocals), and they are coming to had always played it, and which Behind a heavy bass pattern, Notre Dame. did not force them to curtail Mohr picks carefully at his gui­Although the three of them their beloved touring. tar and describes his "bitter­played together and were good The result of the deal was sweet surrender" to love. friends in high school, they de­"Sister Sweetly." released in Recorded, produced, and cided to go their separate ways early 1993. mixed live, "Midnight Radio" for college. A tapestry of funk, psyche-establishes the band as one of 
Mohr headed for Colorado the most fascinating live acts State while Squires and Nevin Abandthatsounds today. capturing the essence of attended the University of Col­their Rocky Mountain roots. 
great on CD, but are
orado at Boulder. Besides its obvious upgrade in One year later, Mohr trans­famous for their live per­sonic production, "Sister ferred to the University of formances, Big Head Sweetly" has a few other Colorado at Boulder so that the changes from Big Head Todd
Todd and the Monsters'

trio could play together once and the Monsters' other pro­again. show should not be ductions: usage of a wah-wah By 1987. Big Head Todd and pedal is experimented with, the
missed.

the Monsters were a staple on hammond organ sets its eerie the Boulder dub scene and had presence in the backgrounds of begun to tour outside of Col­delia, blues, limber guitars, certain songs, sampling is toyed orado. atmospheric keyboards, and with and keyboards and percus­Known for their riveting blues Mohr's crunchy vocals, "Sister sion are used more readily to 
covers and a constantly expand­Sweetly" is the perfect introduc­establish a mood. ing repertoire of great rock orig­tion to the music of Big Head inals. the band began to develop Todd and the Monsters. Recorded in Paisley Park a following in cities such as Studios, the result is an expected Austin, Minneapolis and Big Head Todd and the Mon­one from a band ready to score. Chicago. sters wear their influences on Although "Sister Sweetly" does 
their sleeves. In Mohr's poetic not surpass the greatness of 
In 1989, Big Head Todd and lyrics, early R.E.M. mixes fruit­"Midnight Radio," it is a success­the Monsters released their first fully with a Van Morrisonesque ful breakthrough into the big album, "Another Mayberry," voice, resulting in picture-per­time for the group. much to the delight of their fect vignettes for the listener. A band that sounds great on growing fan base. "Another Mayberry" is a fab­CD, but are famous for their live 
Their second album, "Midnight ulous debut, highlighting the performances, Big Head Todd BIG HEAD TODD and the MONSTERS Radio," released in 1990, band's untamed, moody brand and the Monsters' show on Nov. 
-


Monday, November 8, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  Needed: Two BC GA's Please contact Jon McGhee @ x3578 if you have any information  TICKETS  SELL 2 FSU GAs South Corner Serious$$$ only 277-5912  2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. MARTY x1521.  FSU STUD BEST OFFER X2975  
Typing 287-4082  regarding tickets .CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  For Sale: 2 FSU stud. tix. Make best offer. Jim x4310  1, 2, or 3 FLORIDA STATE STU DENT TICKETS FOR SALE  
Earn up to $2000+/month working  JANE AT 1-B00-264-327B.  WILL PAY $175 A TICKET FOR  Call 634-2856  2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BO BY  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ FLORIDA STATE GA'S 233-9025  NOV. 10 END ZONE, ROW 20.  
CALL 259-86B4.  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Need 2 GAs for any home game  Stud. Ticket, 35 yd in, 29 rw, 634­ 219-659-3910  
Resumes Lisa 273-6332  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Full-Time employment  Call Tim at 273-1757  2 Hot Babes selling 2 FRONT ROW FSU Student tixs! !D's optiona~­ 1663, Best Offer  FOR SALE: 2 FLA. ST. GA'S 35  
ILOST & FO~D I  available. No experience neces­sary. For more information caii1­206-634-046B ext. C55B4  FSU Stud. Tckt. Best Offer  let's negotiate! 634-9437 TOP $$$$ for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's  1 FSU ~ 1 BC STUD 4 SALE!! SUSAN @ X1285  YARD LINE Best offer: Calll03­759-3349  
Newman 4-0505  Call Pat @ 273-5094  -NEED 1 FSU stud will pay big $$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
LOST -Long dangle clip earrings @ SMC computer lab. Call Val 2B4­4395  BEACH or SKI Group Promoter. Small or larger groups. Your's  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (90B)221­ I really, really need 2 B.C. tickets! Call Amy @ 4-4954  Call George @ x1972 Going on Vacation, need to sell  FOR SALE 6 FSU GA'S $250 each  
FREE, discounted or CASH. Call  61B3.  Florida State student ticket.  Call Alex 273-6183  
LOST Heart Locket  CMI 1-B00-423-5264  2 FSU STUD. TICKETS FOR  Best offer Jenn x4831  
at USC rally EXTREME Personal value X2485  FOR RENT  We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO)  SALE. CALL #1560 FOR SALE 2 FLORIDA ST. GA'S.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ For sale: FSU stud tix. ID no  
LOST!! Two Fall-Jackets during the weekend of USC game : one light grey with dark grey stripes  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES. ND/SMC EVENTS  457-0486. CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  BEST OFFER BY 11/10. (401) 847 -2173  I need 2 FSU student or GA's Call Patty 2B4-3645  problem Jay x2567 1 FSU GA Call Greg (703)979-2014  
and one navy-blue with a green collar. Finder pl. contact 1-4350  (219) 291-7153  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  For sale: FSU -BC stu tix. Best offer. Call Tara 284-5197.  3 FSU Student Tix BO before 11/9  FSU stud for sale  
and leave message any time. FOUND 2 SILVER MEDALS- Seeking rommate to share house. . $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev.  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$ . 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  NEED FSU TIX STUORGA  Call x1504  B.O. by 11/10 273-4178  
1 miraculous 1 unknown X3410  Unbelievable bargain! $320.00/mo.,  Call Collect (914)294-6546  Great opportunity #1 v. #2. 50 yd  
ask for Matt  one bedroom apt., VERY close to campus and  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John  Ask For Dennis  line 2.GAs. Best Offer call313-362­7331 by Nov B.  4 Fla. St. Stu. Tix (Sec 32) For Sale. Best Offer. x4436  
LOST Thurs. 11/4 1 small black pocket knife somewhere between Cav., Wash Hall, Ad bldg, and FLRC. PLEASE CALL JIM x1507  Martin's, carport incl. 273-6304. NEED LODGING -GAMES OR ANY ND OCCASION -CALL 291­ 1-800-7 49-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  For Sale: 2 FSU Stud Tix Call x2312  2 FSU GAs 4 SALE BEST OFFER  2 MARRIED STU TIC BOOKLETS FOR SALE FSU & BC CALL 273­5124AFTER 5  
9011  $$$!!!!CALL TOM 254-9013  For Sale: 1 FSU Stud Tic  X4052  
WANTED  6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS  Call x2312  1-BR RESIDENCE INN S.BEND  HELP!! NEED 2 FSU AND 4 BC GAS CALL PAT X1689  
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.  $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA  FSU STUD. TIC FOR SALE. B/0.  FOR 11/12 & 11/13 PREPAID!!  
GREEKSICLUBS!STUDENT  1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL  STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  CALL 4-4902.  CALL W/ BEST OFFER  
GROUPS! Raise as Much as You  NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306  (618)2774481 DAYS  FOR SALE. ONE FSU GA.  
Want In One Week!  For Sale: GA's for all games. 277­ DESPERATELY NEED 3 TIX.  (618)6327571 NTS.  NO BIDDING INVOLVED!  
$100 ... $600 ...$1500! Market Applications for Citibank VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your FREET-SHIRT and to qualify for FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING  Lodging -Riverfront -Private. 257-9101. HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­able for parents on weekends. 219­ 1659. R.T. Ticket S.B. to Boston. Leave 11/17, return 11/21. $200orBO. Call 271-1623.  (STUD. OR GA'S) FOR BC. PLEASE CALL LISA X1297. Need tickets-Notre Dame vs. FSU game. Call Jim (904)788-5060  SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS, CALL 2B9-3865, LEAVE OFFER.  $600 TO FIRST CALLER! (219) 273-640B I've got your FSU stud. ticket -call X1223 **REASONABLE"  
BREAK '94. CALL 1-800-932-0528,  291-2899.  ASAP.  
EXT. 65.  2 FSU stud. tix FOR SALE  FOR SALEIII  
NEED 2 FL.ST. STUD TIX, MIKE  FOR SALE: 3 FSU GA's  best offer  2 FSU/ND GA'S  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  ROOMMATE NEEDED  AT 271-8641  best offer by 11/10  call Juliet @ x4899  2 FSUIND STU  
find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with  Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs 271-1399  Notre Dame-FSU tickets wanted!  Call Tracey 273-3930 For Sale: 2 FSU GA's. Best  Senior Section Student FSU TICK! Will trade w/ $ for a GOOD GA  2 BC/ND STU CALL 273-5942 WITH BEST OFFER  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama, Day1ona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  Lodging -Riverfront -Private 257-9101  Please call (407)43B-3697 FSUGA 40 yd In, row 24 NEED I SAY MORE?  Offer-Call Soon!I Nick 4-1376 I need GA tickets to BC. Rick 273­5347  Call Chuck soon at x1717 For sale: 2 FSU sr stu tix Buy one or both B/0 2B4-5250 or 2B4-5258  FOR SALE!!! 2 FSU STUD TICKETS AND 2 BC STUD TICKETS CALL X2B55 WITH BEST OFFER  
(B00)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  FOR SALE  Tim @ 608-255-2175 NEED 1 OR2  2 N.D.-FSU 1993 National Championship Student Tickets  for sale: 1 FSU stu tic. BO x4-4313  THROUGH 11/11 FSU STUD FOR SALE  
'94! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­ BOSTON COLLEGE TIX  Make Offer @ 232-8363  2 FSU Stud senior 4 sale  PAT X4774  
DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­ Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  CALL 634-2B56  Happy Nov. 1311 have 2 FSU stu  call 2B4-5204  
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-B00-426-7710 Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go FREE! Best trips & prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! Great Resume expe­rience! 1-800-67B-63B6! SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!  Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Day1ona Room w/ Kitchen $149! 1-B00-678-6386 SNOW SKIS Rossignal 7S 203cm wl Marker Bindings Call KJ @ 232­783B  Need BC Tickets! x2B46 Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. GA's. Call Dan X1694  tix 4 u. Call & leave offer. x4420. 1 FSU G.A. HIGHEST BIDDER-NEXT 4 DAYS 314/962-4876 Need 2 FSU Stud Tix Bill 233-23B7 FOR SALE: 5 FSU stu. tix. Call  For sale FSU stud tix. Best offer Kellie 284-4346 For Sale FSU stud tix Michelle 284-50B6 WANTED: 2 ND/FSU tickets will pay top$ call Mike leave message 24 hrs, (B00)421-8845 ext 729 2 FSU GA tickets for sale. Call  2 FSU Tix For Sale ­BEST OFFER!! Call273-6481 For Sale: 1 FSU stud. tick. best offer call Derek at x4074 FSU Student Ticket For Sale B/0 call 4-4435 FSU TIX FOR SALE call X1665  
Student Travel Services is now hir­ FOR SALE  Darel or Tonya at 291-3B1B.  x21B7 ask for Tom.  FOR SALE  
ing campus reps. Call @800-648­4849.  1984 RED HONDA CIVIC, 2 DOOR HATCHBACK. GOOD  2 FSU GA'S  HAVE 1 FSU GA  2 STU TIX 4 SALE. BEST OFFER  TWO FSU GA's best offer  
SHAPE.$2500.  WANT IT?  BY 11/10. (219)634-4982 OR  call 273-4B37  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  CALL ESTEBAN *3419.  CALL 634-3554  CALL MATTY x1B65  2563.  
EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  2 FSU GA's 4sale BEST OFFER x34B9  AND LEAVE MESSAGE ...  Tix.4 Sale FSU GAs&BCstud. For sale: 1 FSU stud. call Mike  2 Fla St tickets for sale 6B3-7275  For Sale: Female student FSU tick­et with matching ID. Best offer. Ca114-1464 between 7 and B.  
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED  FSU & BC stud tix 4sale bestoffer x3489  NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651  @x2022.  Need 2 std tix FSU 409-762-6645 call collect  11/8193 1 FSU GA FOR SALE ­X1367  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 EXT31  2 round trip tickets chicago Ohare to Baltimore Nov. 25-Nov. 30$100  I NEED FSU Studs Kevin x0542  Tickets for sale: 2 FSU GA's togeth­er. Call Dan or John, ext. #4289. BEST OFFER!  4 SALE 2 FSU GA's BO Rob  
HELP WANTED. $800 weekly pos­sible working from home. 37 differ­ent oppurtunities. For details call: (201) 239-2522 Ext. 1487  each. call Mary @2B9-0837 FOR SALE 86 CAMARO $1000/BEST OFFER 277-1004  4Sale: 3FSU stu tics, 2 are married, BC as bonus. (616)3B3-9366. FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ 2 Florida State G.A's together Call 4-3192 Best offer by Nov. 10  @1601 after 10. NEED TICKETS FLORIDA ST. GA'S CALLJOHN X1227  FSU student ticket lor sale... Call Gertrude at 634-2706  
Wholesale Book Distribution seek­ ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER.  I have two FSU stud. tix for sale.  
ing part-time workers. Hours flexi­ble to meet your schedule. Call 232-B500.  For Sale: 2 FSU GA'S BEST OFFER  CALL DOUG AT 234-6306.  Best offer X2851 FOR SALE:2 FSU GA'S. Call Kelly  1 45 yard line FSU GA for sale. Call George 634-1748  45-yard line FSU tix lor sale... Call Andy at 634-1750  
TRAVEL SALES! Sunchase Ski &  CALL BILL (319) 373-5329  Akron, Ohio fan needs 2 FSU tick­ets. Call collect 216-633-1072,  @ 634-3723 & leave offer.  1 FSU student ticket for sale. Call Kristin with your best offer at 634­ 
Beach Breaks is accepting applica­tions for Spring Break Campus Reps. Earn top $$$and FREE TRIPS. 1-BOO-SUNCHASE SPRING BREAK '94 CANCUN Organize trip & travel for FREE + CASH Call College Tours (B00)395­4B96 -Rick or Louie Lovely B&B 1.5 mi. off-campus. Rooms available 11-12113; 11-19/20. 219/2B7-1073 Green Street Station is now hiring part-time retail clerks for Christmas. All hours available starting pay $5.00. Positions available at UP Mall and Scottsdale Mall. Apply in person at UP Mall. Store located outside of Casual Corners.  2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston 12-14 $65ea. 50B-771-6996 19B9 GEO Spectrum 5 speed, 2 door hatch back. 42,000 miles, VERY dependable $3500 OBO 273-0282 Dependable 19B6 Plymouth Duster Holly 271-B940 Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP 27S scientific calculator, with all documentation. Program formulas and love life. HP DeskJet printer (for IBM). Print in the privacy of your own room. Call Rolando at 631-4541. 2 FSU TIXS FOR SALE-CALL MARINA X4420  Francis, after 9pm please. NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 (MARK) 2 FSU ST TIX 4 SALE X2343 LEAVE BEST OFFER Need 4 Stu. Tlx. for BC Call Colleen x42785 I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 FOR SALE: Two Florida State GA's Will call back best five offers. Call Brian at 273-4865. (Call before Wednesday Nov. B)  SALE 2 BC GA'S $125each x3666 For Sale:4 FSU GAs call 634-1 B33 THE ULTIMATE PACKAGE!! 2 Stu Tix (I.D. extra$) FSU &/or BC 273-62BB (B.O.) 2 FSU stud. tix 4 sale. Best offer x 2147. I DESPERATELY NEED BC STUD. TIX. CALL JEN @ X 1308 NEEDED: One BC Stud or GA for a groovy cousin!! 4-1339.  2989. 1 FSU GA lor sale; best offer by lues night; cash only; call bet 4 and 10 pm; 277-5612 I NEED BC GA'SI X4355 1 FSU STU. TICKET FOR SALE BEST OFFER. CALL MARY BETH @ X3474 AND LEAVE MESSAGE 1 [one] florida st senior student free or best offer jeff 273 -6445 2 fsu stu 4-sale b/o by 11/11 x1841  Two FSU stud. tix tor sale. B.O. Call273-4168 IT'S THE SECOND COMING OF CHRISTl Saturday November 20, 1993. Notre Dame indiana. There is just one problem, Jesus doesn't have aG.A. ticket to the B.C. game. Oh, and Peter wants to come too. So if you want to get you and your mother a one way ticket to heaven, and some speanding money too, CALL: Jesus' agent-234-4451 12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME -Bryan x1190  - 
see CLASS I page 14  

~--­

~--~r---------~~~--~~---.--~~--~~~..~--~~~--------------------~------_.·--------------------------~--­
The Observer· SPORTS 


The Observerrr.J. Harris 

Junior midfielder Jason Fox assisted on one of the Irish's goals in its 2-0 win over Detroit Mercy on Saturday. 
Men 
continued from page 20 
Though the game got off to a slow start, the Irish managed to get on the board early once again when Tim Oates received a Lanza cross pass and drilled his shot past Bulldog goal­keeper John Cane at the 13:38 mark. Senior captain Mike Palmer also assisted on the play. 
Notre Dame increased their lead at the 40:39 mark when 

Class 
continued from page 13 
FSU stud. tix for sale. Call Keith at 273­3920. 
PERSONAL 
Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad, laughter and music in a country home for your baby. Please call Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226­5172 anytime. 
-Adoption Is Love Loving Indiana medical professionals eager to adopt newborn. MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential. Call our home toll free to hear all about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224-2429 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 
Keith Carlson broke past the Butler defense off a Dean pass and scored to give the Irish the 2-0 halftime lead. 
Though Notre Dame kept the pressure on the Bulldogs throughout the second half, they could not capitalize on a few good scoring opportunities. 
The defense, however, led by midfielders Kevin Adkisson and Tont Richardson, stepped its play up a notch, and shut down any offensive surge that Butler could muster. The installment of freshman Peter Gansler into both games aided the Irish de-
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369-2597 
2 FSU GAs and Parking Pass for sale. Best offer by 11/11. Call Dave, 4-2246. 
Hey you guysllll Mud wants to buy the !-shirt ,'Why do all the trees on campus bend to the west...?" Call her today so she will no longer be naked. X2575. 
• ... and on the plus side, COW DUNG." 
Thanks Easterbunnies Bawk, Bawk!!!!! 

Women 
continued from page 20 
assisting on the first and Daws and Masters assisting on the second. 
Although the score does not indi­cate much of a contest, the Irish were not pleased with their play overall. Petrucelli described it as "lackluster." 
"I think the other team was a lit­tle intimidated and I think we were looking ahead a little bit," he said. 
"By the end of the game we were playing very well," he added, "but there were times in the game when we were having trouble connect­ing." 
"It was difficult for the starting 
fensively. "We're going to score. 

players to get up for the game," said Porter, "but in the second half we played well." 
The Irish advanced to the cham­pionship game after handily defeating Butler in the semifinals on Friday afternoon. 
Both Daws and Masters scored two goals while McCarthy and junior Jodi Hartwig each earned two assists. 
Masters scored first for Notre Dame 30:41 into the first half and was followed six minutes later by Vogel. It was Vogel's first goal of the season. Hartwig and tri-captain Andi Kurek assisted Masters' score and tri-captain Alison Lester and junior Tiffany Thompson assisted Vogel's goal. 
Daws added another goal before 
We 
have the talent to do that," said Lanza. "We knew that if no­body scored on us, we'd win." 
To add to the tournament vic­tory, Adkisson, Dean, and Palmer were selected along with Bader and Lanza to the All-Tournament Team. 
With the two victories this weekend Notre Dame improved their record to 15-5. They will receive their seed in the NCAA tournament later this after­noon. 
Hey634-1174! "WHAT TIME IS IT?" (4:30) 
Ladies of Columbus: Women's Care Center Speaker Postponed from 11/9 to 11/23 due to conflict with Schlafly/Weddington debate 
more SEAGULL jokes ... 
1) Name three ocean-going birds in the National Gallery of Art ... **'Picasea gulL *''Matissea gull. ...Mark Chea gull. 
2) What kind of music go ocean-going birds listen to??? ...Ciassea gull. 
3) What do you call an ocean going bird going into Club 23 when a band is playing and it is too hot and crowed and filled with underagers??? ...Two bucks a piecea gull. 
Sea (ya) gull. 
Monday, November 8, 1993 

the first half closed. 
Beth Crauder put the Bulldogs on the board 11:19 into the second half and cut the Irish lead to 3-1. 
Daws responded five minutes later with another Irish insurance goal and Masters secured the vic­tory with just over 15 minutes remaining. 
"We were hungry on Friday," Petrucelli said. "I was really happy with the way we played." 
Attention: Because of events occuring too late for publication, coverage of this weekend's fenc­ing, swimming, and men's tennis action will come out in Tuesday's edition of The Observer. We regret the inconvenience. 
ready for that.11 
Although not completely satisfied with the power play (only 1 of 29 on the season), Schafer did notice some improvement. "It was at least a threat tonight," he said. 
"The theme for the night was hard work," said Schafer. "We won the battle for the loose pucks. We worked hard enough to win." 
Mason, who is college hock­ey's winningest coach, saw the same hustle from the Irish. "If they play like that they're going to have some success this year," said Mason. 



Hockey 
continued from page 18 
more," said Schafer. 
"Louder came up with the crucial saves all night," agreed Mason. 

Both coaches were actually pleased with the tie. Mason was happy to escape the 
J.A.C.C. with a point, as he felt the Irish really stepped up their play. "They had more jump tonight," said Mason. "Notre Dame did a nice job adjusting their power play. We weren't 


your Birthday! 
Love, Amy, Lorrei, Haley, and Julie 
o<<' We're Still Open ~:r. .-9 '? 0~ Daily from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. t>t> .oo,.,_ f(~­~01":IJ THE COMMONS "The Tradition Continues"  
:, l I'·WIIIJd ~:·1·1~· ~ ... '·'' ' • I • ... • ' I ' : •I ' '.:: .::.~.,, en : Tuesday, NI\Vit:lmnor Where : 118 Nieuwland Science Hall For more information or to sign up, contact KAPlAN at 1-BOO·KAP·Tm 5pcn1Dfld by Tht Prt-Ptoftssional OffKe and KJplan Tell Prep  

R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army fees. They even pay a flat rate for text-ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also rece1ve 
of talented students. If you qualify,  ,E~DERSHIP  an  allowance of up  to  $1000  each  
these ment-based scholarships can  ~  school  year  the  scholarship  IS  m  
help you pay tmtion and educatiOnal  effect Fmd out today 1f you qualify  




ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
-
~------~-­

----------~------~­
~---------~­
l

Monday, November 8, 1993 • The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL page 15 
l 
I



Dallas honors Landry, then posts sixth straight win l 
Associated Press "There's no tear," Cowboys week against Philadelphia. New England at Foxboro. Moon, benched earlier this 
On a day when the Dallas Cowboys remembered their past, they reminded everyone why they may be the NFL's team of the present, too. 
Former coach Tom L a n d r y returned to T e x a s Stadium for the first time since he was 


fired almost 
Emmitt Smith 

five· years ago by new owner Jerry Jones, and saw the Cowboys dominate the New York Giants 31-9 Sunday. 
Landry came back to be pre­sented as the eighth member of the Dallas Cowboys Ring of Honor. He coached the team for its first 29 seasons, won 270 games and led it to five Super Bowls. 
"I have no animosity," Landry said. "Considering what Jerry paid for the team he had the right to do anything he wanted to. I'm happy with the way the Cowboys are going now. The hard feelings are over." 
Landry watched as his suc­cessor, Jimmy Johnson, used Emmitt Smith and Troy Aikman to lead the defending Super Bowl champions to their sixth straight win. 
Aikman, however, left with a strained left hamstring midway through the third quarter. His status for next week's game against Phoenix is uncertain. 
trainer Kevin O'Neill said. "We want to see how he responds in 24 to 48 hours. It will tell us more. But I wouldn't rule out the possibility he will play next week against Phoenix." 
Cowboys 31, Giants 9 
Aikman completed his first 10 passes, including two touch­downs to Alvin Harper,.before hurting himself with 9:30 left in the third quarter and Dallas ahead 17-6. Aikman went down while being chased by defensive end Keith Hamilton. 
Jason Garrett replaced Aik­man and completed 5 of 6 pass­es for 34 yards. He guided Dallas on its last two touch­down drives, both capped by short runs by Smith. 
Smith ran for 117 yards on 24 carries despite a bruised shoulder. The Cowboys are 6-0 since starting 0-2 without Smith. They moved one game ahead of New York {5-3) in the NFC East. 
Phil Simms and backup Kent Graham combined to throw for 214 yards and were sacked five times. 
Jets 27, Dolphins 10 
The Jets. who have beaten 
Shula more than any other 
team, did it again in East 
Rutherford, N.J. The Jets have 
won 21 times against Shula, 
including a victory over the 
Baltimore Colts in the third Su­
per Bowl. 
The Dolphins are 6-2, with 
both losses to New York Shula 
will try for his 325th win next 
Boomer Esilison completed 23-of-32 passes for 256 yards and three touchdowns for the Jets {4-4). 
For the first time since Dan Marino was lost for the season with an Achilles tendon injury, Scott Mitchell flopped as Mi­ami's quarterback. Mitchell, the AFC Offensive Player of the Month for October, was 23-for­44 for 293 yards, much of it after the game had been de­cided. 
Broncos 29, Browns 14 
John Elway once again led Denver over Cleveland, throw­ing a season-high three touch­down passes. 
The Broncos (5-3) have 14 of their last 16 against the Browns (5-3). Elway is 9-2 in that time, including three dramatic wins in AFC championship games. 
Elway leads the NFL with 15 touchdown passes, only seven away from his career high set in 1985. He passed for 244 yards in guiding the AFC's highest-scoring team. 
Bernie Kosar returned as 
Cleveland's starting quarter­
back, but the Browns still en­
dured their most lopsided home 
loss in Bill Belichick's three 
years as coach. Kosar threw 
two scoring passes to Michael 
Jackson. 
Bills 13, Patriots 10 
Steve Christie kicked the ty­
ing field goal with 14 seconds 
left in regulation and booted a 
32-yard field goal 9:22 into 
overtime, lifting Buffalo over 
The· Controversy C~ontinue.So.o.~ 
Tomorrow 


Ph llis Scli afly 
Reagan Advisor 


7:30pm Stepan $3 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 

NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY RANKS IN MONEY MAGAZINE'S 
1994 TOP 100 BEST COLLEGE BUYS
Ill

• 6th among Scientific ond Technical Schools 
New Jersey Institute of Technology 
• 9th BEST BUY in Money's Midlantic Region 
~e Graduate Program ilz Transportation at New Jersey Institute of T~chn~logy (N~IT) is ~esigned 
to meet challenges ofthe future and provide students with state-of the-art educatzon m plannm~, ~eszgn, a;zd 
management of transportation systems. The graduates of this progr~m will be ~ble to _apply s~z~ls m comp e: 
· 1 ·~rltz'onal and ot>emtional asnects of.'transt>ortatwn toward mcreasmg mobdzty ofour soet­
technologzca , orgam~. • r r 'J r . d /; ety, reducing congestion on our roads, improving the efficiency and safety oftransportation systems an tJIIS 
ultimately improving the productivity ofour economy. 
NJIToffers the future multi-faceted transportation professional the following graduate programs: 
• M.S. in Civil Engineering 
• 
M.S. in Transportation 


• Ph.D. in Civil Engineering 
• 
Ph.D. in Transportation 

• M.S. in Management 
A limited number of research assistantships are available annually to qualified full-time gradua~e stu­dents. The highly competitive awards are based on merit, so it is en~ouraged to a~~ly earl~. ~nnual supend~ ran e from $8,000 to S 12,000 per year, with most being accompamed by full tmtwn remissw_n. A c~opera tiveg education program is also available, in which graduate s~udents ~ay work full or part-ume with area companies and agencies to finance their studies and gain practical expenence. 
Please contact the Center for Transportation Studies and Research at (201) 596-3355 for more information on our programs, or write co: NJIT/CTSR, University Heights, Newark, NJ 07102. (Ad #ND-01). 
The Bills (7-1) rallied from a 10-0 deficit in the fourth quar­ter and won their fifth straight game. The Patriots (1-8) have lost four in a row and have dropped five games by three points or less. 
Jim Kelly started the game­winning drive with a 46-yard completion to Andre Reed to the New England 19. Thurman Thomas ran twice for 5 yards, and Christie made the winning kick on third down. 
Christie tied it with a 27­yard kick in the closing seconds of regulation. 
Lions 23, Buccaneers 0 
Barry Sanders, focusing on football rather than finances, ran for 187 yards and the De­troit (2-6) defense posted its first shutout in 10 years. The win at the Silverdome made the Lions 7-2, their best start since 1962. Tampa Bay fell to 2-6. 
Sanders carried 29 times in the second-best rushing game of his career. His status for the upcoming bye week is uncer­tain because of a contract dis­pute, and one of Sanders' agents says he would not be surprised if the star running back walks out. 
Raiders 16, Bears 14 
Kevin Butler missed a 30­
yard field goal attempt on the 
final play of the game as Los 
Angeles held off Chicago's late 
rally at Soldier Field. 
Jim Harbaugh threw a 13­
yard touchdown pass to Terry 
Obee with 1:13 to play, cutting 
the Raiders' lead to two points. 
The Bears then recovered an 
onside kick and moved down to 
the 2. 

The Bears ran two plays be­
fore Butler missed his kick. He 
also missed from 21 yards with 
5:21 remaining. 
Jeff Jaeger kicked three field 
goals for the Raiders (5-3). 
Chicago (3-5) lost its third in a 
row. 

Oilers 24, Seahawks 14 
Warren Moon, assured by coach Jack Pardee that he would start as long as he stayed successful, passed for 369 yards and two touchdowns as host Houston (4-4) won its third straight game. 
season at New England, com­pleted his first eight passes and fmished 36 of 55. He threw two interceptions, both into the Seattle {5-5) end zone. Moon threw for 300 yards for the 37th time in his career. Only Dan Fouts and Dan Marino have done it more often. 
Chargers 30, Vikings 17 
Natrone Means ran for 105 yards, including the go-ahead touchdown early in the fourth quarter, and San Diego beat Minnesota at the Metrodome. 
The Chargers (4-4) won their second in a row. Last year, they rebounded from an 0-4 start and won the AFC West with an 11-5 mark. 
The defending NFC Central champion Vikings (4-4), who blew a 14-point lead in the fourth quarter last week against Detroit, fell 2 1/2 games behind the Lions. 
Means gained 89 yards in the fourth quarter. His 7-yard run with 10:12 left put the Chargers ahead 23-17. 
John Friesz passed for 268 yards and two scores for San Diego. 
Steelers 24, Bengals 16 
Neil O'Donnell put Pittsburgh 
in a 16-point hole with poor 
play early in the game, then 
rallied the Steelers to victory in 
Cincinnati. 
The Steelers (5-3) made 
their biggest comeback under 
second-year coach. The Ben­
gals fell to 0-8 for the third time 
in franchise history. 
Darryl.Williams intercepted 
O'Donnell's pass and returned 
it for a 97-yard touchdown in 
helping Cincinnati take a 16-0 
lead with 3:50 left in the second 
quarter. But O'Donnell threw 
two touchdown passes before 
halftime, and went on to lead 
Pittsburgh to its sixth straight 
win over the Bengals. 
Cardinals 16, Eagles 3 
Rookie Ron Moore ran for 
160 yards and Phoenix rushed 
for 243 yards to beat visiting 
Philadelphia. 
The Cardinals (3-6) scored 
on their first four possessions 
and took a 16-3 halftime lead. 
The Eagles (4-4) lost their 
fourth in a row. 
HOW TO CHOOSE A MAJOR: Options, Opinions and Opportunities 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993, 6::10-7:1.5 p.m. 117 O'Shaughnesr;y 
SPECIAL PROGRAMS FAIR: 
Concentrations, Area Studies and Second Majors 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993, 7:30-8:30 p.m. 117 O'Shaughnessy 
.-\rr" Stw/jr" 
•f:urr)pi'UII .-\rf'a Studic•s

'*lh•sburJ!h J,rr~t:rcrm irr Puhlic ·'"''t'rr'iN· 
•.-\.{riC"CJrt Studies 

*fll"OC'(.' Studie~ 
•Latin American Studies*Gt'mlrr Studirs 

•sn~·i('t Stuclif.'~

•S(•i,•ncr, TC'cl~rwlogy & \'nluPs 
•Serum/ .Ha ior ~rwcfal Prnl.!D111B.

·film aud Cllltural 8/wlic·... 
·-~fri1·un .-\m('rlt:nn Sfudlt-'S 

...\l,•dirt'al ~ludit•... 
•C.-H1P IComputt•r A.pplh·afinm>J

•.1!c•diterrarwtll1 .-..·tudi(·~·
1 •Arts (utcl !...I" Hen Prt>pmf~•s-.ionuf
~~'I' Pic 1}'/1ilosophy, l'o/ilic.<, one/ f;<"onomics) 1 
I College ofArts and Letters Associate Deem Dian IUriiTCI)' Hncf li College Fellort· Sonia Gernes 
lL 

I 
I 
l 
j 
I 
l 
I 
1 
I 
l 
t 1 l 
1 
I 
-
~--~~~--~--~------~---.~---------------------------.------~--------~----------~------~-----·-----------------------------­
-
... , 
page 16 
Tourney 
continued from page 20 
season, the Irish were 1-5-1 versus ranked opponents. 
The big question for the Irish this season is not whether they will be invited, but rather to where they will be invited. 
The squad hopes to host the first two rounds of the tourna­ment at home in Alumni Field. 
The team is 19-2 and ranked first in the Central Region. The Irish will play the first two rounds against Central Region opponents, against which they have a 36 game winning streak. 
Typically, the highest seeded team is awarded the home field advantage for tournament games. However, the NCAA may strip Notre Dame of this right due to conflicts caused by this weekend's football game with Florida State. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Ice Club Hockey will be held on Thursday Nov. 4 at 
10:45 p.m., Sunday Nov. 7 at 11:30-12:30 p.m., Thursday Nov. 11 at 10:45-11:45 p.m., Sunday Nov. 14 at 9-10:00 p.m. Please bring $5 to first scrim­mage. New members welcome. Call Rob at x1950 or Pete at 273-5059 for more details. 
A Mixed Double·s Tennis 
Mixer will be held on Monday, 
November 8, 9pm-llpm at the 
Eck. Sign up in advance at the 
RecSports office by 12pm on 
Monday. Individual sign ups 
only; you will be paired with a 
partner. $1.00 court fee is re­
quired. Call 631-6100 for more 
info. 
A Turkey Shoot will.be held on Monday, November 15 and Tuesday, November 16 from 4pm to 6pm. Co-Ree teams of 
two men and two women. It is open to all undergrad and graduate students. The shoot is sponsered by Naval ROTC and Rec Sports. Members of the ROTC rifle squad are not eligi­ble. Sign up in advance at RecSports by November, November 11. No experience necessary. Call 631-6100 for more info. The RecSports Office is offering interhall and grad ice hockey and interhall, grad and club basketball with the dead­line being November 11 at the time of the captains meetings. Hockey meeting is at 5 p.m., the interhall basketball meet­ing is at 5:30 p.m. for both men and women, and grad and club basketball meeting is set for 6 
p.m. Also, all those interested in officiating all basketball above have a mandatory meet­ing at 6:30 p.m. All meetings are in the JACC Auditorium on November 11. Women's Lacrosse manda­tory practice Tuesday November 9 at 9:30-11 p.m. at Loftus. Call Emily at 4-2856 or Michele at 4-2894 with ques­tions. 

The Observer· SPORTS Monday, November 8, 1993 
Previously, only the Final Four was held at a single site. Only once in the past 12 sea­sons has the top seeded team been stripped of the right to host the games. 
Petrucelli said that it would not be fair for the NCAA to award the games to another team because Notre Dame has already solved problems such as parking, traffic and hotel ac­commodations. 
"I think that we've made a great effort at showing the committee that we can pull this thing off," he said. "If the com­mittee is fair, there shouldn't be a reason why we can't host 
it. .. The team is also emphasizing the fact that the enormous me­dia contingency which is com­ing to Notre Dame for the Florida State game would be very beneficial to women's soc­cer due to the national expo­sure that would be received. Petrucelli believes that Notre Dame's chances to host the Central Region sectional are "50-50". "I think they're afraid of Florida State," he said. 

The Investment Banking Division of 


Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
cordially invites University of Notre Dame undergraduates of all majors to attend an information session on the 
Financial Analyst Program 
Goldman Sachs' Financial Analyst Program offers exposure to a broad range of industries and transactions, a high level of responsibility and client interaction in a collegial work environment. No other investment bank promotes the same degree of teamwork that has become one of the hallmarks of Goldman Sachs' success. 
Goldman Sachs is committed to hiring undergraduates with outstanding achievements from all majors, including Arts and Letters, Engineering and Sciences, to join the analyst class for 1994. 
Information Session on November 11 at 6:00 p.m. The Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center 


Saint Mary's seniors go out with win 
By CHERYL GILLILAND Sports Writer 
In their season finale, the Saint Mary's College volleyball team brought home a victory as they beat Chicago State University, 15-12, 15-6, 13-15, 15-12. 
Saturday's victory was the last win in an eight-game win­ning streak and gave the Belles a final record of 22-9, which is one of the best final records in Saint Mary's history. · "It was a really good way to finish up the season," said coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "Everyone got to play and I think we put forth a good team effort." 
Five seniors, including co­captains Kim Branstetter and Michelle Martino, Erica Freitag, Andrea Salazar, and Mary Wheeler, ended their Saint Mary's volleyball career on Saturday. 
''I'm really pleased with our record, and I thought Julie re­ally coached us well," said Branstetter, who had 8 kills, 15 digs, and a total of 8 points in Saturday's game. "I thought we were very good this year; we worked hard and played well together." 
Schroeder-Biek noted that Chicago State has greatly im­proved from last year."They were really hitting the ball well, " she commented. "They came in and did their job." 
"I thought we all played tough, and I'm glad everyone got a chance to play," said Branstetter. "It was nice to end our season on a win." 
All five seniors were starters this season and in Saturday's game, except Salazar, who was out with an injury."The seniors had a lot of talent, personality, and experience," commented Schroeder-Biek. "They will def­initely be missed." 
Many of the statistics from Saturday's game can be at­tributed to the senior players. Martino had 35 assists, 8 digs, 4 service aces, and 13 points for the whole night. Wheeler added 7 kills, and Fritag had 13 kills, 3 service aces, and a total of 9 points. Sophomore tri-cap­tain Sara Stronczek also added 9 kills, 3 service aces, and a total of 10 points for the game. 
"Because we had five seniors, who were all in primary lead­ership positions, we will be looking for the five sophomores to step into leadership roles next year," said Schroeder­Biek. 
Schroeder-Biek also men­tioned that she is looking for more setters for next year. She is expecting freshman Mindy Cota, who was unable to play this year, to come in strong next year. Schroeder-Biek will also be looking for more incom­ing freshmen because only five sophomores and three fresh­men will be returning. 
"''m going to miss playing. It's hard to believe that it is fi­nally over," commented Branstetter. "I wish all the un­derclassmen the best of luck with their goals in Saint Mary's volleyball." 

The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 17 

Nebraska survives to stay in hunt 
the lnsh a /-2 lead, and two mg the net.
& Kristen 
kills by Karlan pushed that to A combined block put Notre
Volleyball 
9-2. Karlan's first kill was set Dame on top 12-2, and the two up by another good pass from traded kills for a 13-3 Irish
continued from page 20 
Boulac. lead. The match ended as both fortable with the set, but With the Irish leading com­killed an overpass by Xavier, against Xavier she was able to fortably at 10-2, the seniors got giving the Irish a 4-0 confer­
BeckeP CPA Review COUPSe 
swing away." a well deserved ovation from ence record. the 537 fans as they were re­
"It's something we've been practicing a lot, and it paid off," placed by the underclassmen. "We've played well against all 
Invites you to attend a presentation on 
explained Karlan. "We con­However, there was to be no the conference teams, so now letdown this time, as the future we have to keep our focus,"
nected like we had been at the beginning of the year." of the program showed it had stated Brown, whose team has
..How to prepare lor 
learned much from those it re­never lost to a MCC foe.
Game three was no contest from the outset, as the seniors placed. With freshman Jen The Irish Will have a week to 
ended their regular season Briggs serving, freshmen rest before traveling east next
the CPA Exam 
Kristina Ervin and Laura weekend to take on LaSalle and block by Harris and Peters gave Reckmeyer took turns dominat-Pittsburgh. 
home career with a flourish. A 
and 

The Controversy Con.tinu
Current Events.. 
Tomorrow 
Wednesday, November 10, 1993 La Fortune Center-Dooley Room 5:00pm 






Ph llis 
Pizza and Pop will be served. Drawing for a $50.00 Gift Certificate from the Notre Dame Book Store. 
S~JiA~fly 
For further information, call: 7:30pm Stepan $3
277-4388 

Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Buckeyes (8-0-1, 5-0-1) evened it with a 99-yard scoring drive with 3:48 left. 
No. 6 Tennessee 45, No. 
20 Louisville 10 
At Knoxille, Tenn., the Vol­unteers (7 -1-1) scored three late touchdowns to break open a tight game. Louisville (7 -2), headed for the Liberty Bowl, has another tough game Satur­day at Texas A&M. 
No. 7 Auburn 55, New 
Mexico State 14 
At Auburn, the Tigers (9-0) scored 35 points in the second quarter against the Aggies (5-4) and cruised the rest of the way. Stan White set a school record with 16 straight completions and threw three TO passes. 
No. 8 Florida 61, 
Southwestern Louisiana 14 
At Gainesville, Fla., Terry Dean, a junior who started the first two games before being benched in favor of Danny Wuerffel, threw for 448 yards and an SEC-record six TDs for the Gators (7-1). The Ragin' Ca­juns dropped to 6-3. 
No. 9 West Virginia 58, 
Rutgers 22 
The Mountaineers (8-0, 4-0 Big East) must beat Temple Saturday to stay undefeated h-eaaing into their Nov. 20 showdown against Miami. The 58 points were the most al­lowed by visiting Rutgers (4-5, 1-4) since 1952. 
No. 10 UCLA 40, 
Washington State 27 
UCLA (7-2, 5-1 Pac-10) can win the conference champi­onship and Rose Bowl berth by beating Arizona State Saturday and Southern Cal Nov. 20. J.J. Stokes caught two TO passes against the Cougars (5-5, 3-4), giving him 15 for the season. 
LSU 17, No. 12 
Alabama 13 
At Tuscaloosa, Ala., the Tigers (4-5, 3-4 SEC) ended Al­abama's (7-1-1, 4-1-1) 31-game unbeaten streak -the longest in the nation. "This is the greatest win I've ever been associated with," LSU's Ivory Hilliard said. 
No. 13 Arizona 31, 
Oregon 10 
At Tucson, Ariz., it was a con­trast of running games. The Wildcats gained all their yardage (389 yards) on the ground and held the Ducks (5­4, 2-4 Pac-10) to 10 yards rush­ing. Arizona threw only one pass -an incompletion. 
No. 15 North Carolina 24, 
Clemson 0 
Playing at Chapel Hill, N.C., before scouts from the Gator, Peach, Hall of Fame and Inde­pendence bowls, the Tar Heels (8-2, 5-2 Atlantic Coast Confer­ence) beat Clemson (6-3, 4-3) for only the fourth time. 
No. 16 Penn State 38, No. 
19 Indiana 31 
At State College, Pa., Kerry Collins hit Bobby Engram with a 45-yard TO pass with 6:25 left, giving the Nittany Lions (6­2, 3-2 Big Ten) the victory over the Hoosiers (7-2, 4-2). 
No. 17 Oklahoma 42, 
Missouri 23 
At Columbia, Mo., Oklahoma (7-2, 2-2) took an early 28-0 lead, but the Tigers (3-5-1, 2-3) got within 28-23 with 5:00 left. It was all Sooners after that. 
No. 18 Virginia 21, 
Wake Forest 9 
At Charlottesville, Va., Jerrod Washington ran for 119 yards and two TDs in the second half as Virginia (7-2, 5-2 ACC) beat Wake (2-7, 1-5) for the 10th straight time. 
No. 21 Colorado 31, 
Oklahoma St.. 14 
At Stillwater, Okla., Kordell Stewart threw three TDs and became Colorado's career pass­ing leader with 4,113 yards. The Buffaloes are 5-3-1, 3-1-1 in the Big Eight. Oklahoma State is 3-6, 0-5. 
No. 22 Boston College 48, 
Virginia Tech 34 
At Boston, Glenn Foley passed for 448 yards and three TDs, giving him 16 TO passes in his last six games, all victories for Boston College (6-2, 4-1 Big East). Tech (6-3, 3-3) dropped out of the Top 25 after the loss. 
Iowa St. 27, No. 24 
Kansas St.. 23 
At Ames, Iowa, the Wildcats (6-2-1, 2-2-1 Big Eight) lost when freshman QB Todd Dox­zon directed three fourth-quar­ter scoring drives for State (3-6, 2-3). 
No. 25 Washington 28, 
Oregon State 21 
At Corvallis, Ore., Washington (6-3, 4-2 Pac-10) scored three TDs in a 3 1/2-minute stretch of the second half to beat the Beavers (3-7, 1-6). 
-
11107 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD 
...
Wisconsin 
>t"
North Carolina Penn State Oklahoma Virginia Indiana 
·~
Louisville Colo 
do allege 
7-1-1 8-2-0 
6;~/P''i:
7 
!);-7 
7 
awt 7~2::o 
5-3-1 6-2-0 

is finally 21! 
Love, Mom, Dad, 
POINTS 10131 
1550 1 1485 2 1386 4 1305 6 1249 3 1241 7 1197 8 1133 9 1029 11 953 12 948 10 902 5 796 14 773 15 704 16 623 19 477 20 451 21 380 17 367 13 297 23 
264 
246 24 
8 18 
72 

By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
If the Nebraska Cornhuskers somehow manage to play for the national championship, they'll have Glen Mason to 
thank. 

The Kansas coach elected to go for a 2­point conver­sion at the end of Saturday's game with his team trailing 


21-20. Asheiki Preston threw to the corner of the end zone and the ball float­ed between several players before landing on the ground . 
Did Mason consider kicking the extra point for a 21-21 tie? 
"I would have gone for two if all we needed to win the Big Eight championship was a tie," he said. 
The failed conversion and Nebraska's ensuing recovery of the onside kick at Lawrence, Kan., kept the Cornhuskers undefeated and possibly headed for a national championship matchup in the Orange Bowl. 
Nebraska (9-0, 5-0) advanced two spots to No. 4 in Sunday's AP poll and has two games remaining-both at home­against unranked Iowa State and No. 17 Oklahoma. 
No. 1 Florida State 49, 
Maryland 20 
At College Park, Md., the Seminoles (9-0, 7-0 ACC) didn't look as dominant as they had previously. Maryland (1-8, 1-5) scored more points against Florida State than any team this season, but backup quar­terback Danny Kanell, subbing for injured Chrlie Ward, threw five TO passes in his first start. 
No. 3 Miami 35, Pitt 7 
Miami hasn't posted a shutout on the road since 1968, but the Hurricanes (7-1, 5-0 Big East) almost did it at Pittsburgh. The Panthers (2-7, 1-4) scored with 
10:41 remaining after a turnover. No. 5 Ohio State 14, No. 14 Wisconsin 14 
At Madison, Wis., Marlon Kerner blocked a 33-yard field goal try with one second left to preserve the tie with the Bad­gers (7-1-1, 4-1-1 Big Ten). The 
page 18 The Observer • IRISH HOCKEY Monday, November 8, 1993 

Hockey ties No.7 Michigan St. 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 
In the first of a home-and­home series, the Notre Dame hockey team traveled to Michi­gan State on Friday night. only to be shutout by a score of 3-0. 
However. the Irish rebounded nicely Saturday night at home by skating to a 1-1 tie with the seventh-ranked Spartans. 
This weekend' s games were important for the Irish for a number of reasons. First, it showed that the team is capa­ble of coming back from a loss with a strong performance. It also served as valuable experi­ence for the freshmen, as many got their first significant min­utes against top-notch competi­tion. Most importantly, it showed teams around the 
C.C.H.A. that Notre Dame has the ability and desire to play with anyone in the league. 
The first game of the series started well for the Irish, who seemed to adjust well to the changes coach Ric Schafer made during the week of prac­tice. 
Goalie Wade Salzman, getting his first career start, showed little signs of nervousness. He stopped all five shots in the first period. The line changes also seemed to add some spark to the offense, as many of their eight first-period shots were quality scoring opportunities. Unfortunately, Michigan State goalie Mike Buzak was tough, denying all eight. 
The 6, 622 fans who packed Munn Arena finally had reason to cheer early in the second period when Bart Turner scored on a deflected shot. Following the fortunate bounce for the Spartans, the Irish once again had opportunities to tie the game, but failed to finish. 
MSU took control of the game midway through the sec­ond period. At the 9:04 mark, left-winger Steve Guolla took advantage of a Notre Dame penalty by scoring his fifth goal of the young season on a feed from Rem Murray. 
The Irish did not quit, though, as they once again stepped up their intensity in an attempt to get back into the game. How­ever, Buzak denied any such notion with a couple of key saves. Sophomore center Jamie Ling consistently pro­vided his Irish teammates with opportunities but no one could solve Buzak. 
The third period was marred by penalties, as nine were called in the first nine minutes. Neither squad could capitalize until the 9:44 mark, when MSU winger Michael Burkett tipped in a Steve Suk drive to give the Spartans their second power­play goal of the evening and a commanding 3-0 lead. 
ND failed to mount any significant offensive pressure the rest of the way, as they managed only four shots. 
Although Salzman played well, especially considering the circumstances, Schafer decided to start senior Greg Louder in Saturday's rematch. The deci­sion turned out well, as Louder combi.ed with a strong defen­sive performance to allow just one goal. 
Like the previous night's 

-
game, the two clubs skated to a scoreless tie after the first pe­riod. Although ND ended the period with nine shots, their first true scoring bid did not come until the 9:00 mark of the If period. From that point on, the Irish carried play into the break. 
Notre Dame came out hus­tling in the second period. Strong forechecking and solid 
hitting allowed the Irish to maintain offensive pressure throughout the period. With 
7:34 left in the middle period, Ling stole a pass in the Spartan zone and converted it into the Irish's first goal in five periods. 
"I just took a chance on the pass, because I noticed they had been doing it all night. He put it on my stick and Buzak gave high glove (side)," said Ling, whose goal marked the first time the Irish scored first since their first game. 
The lead was short-lived as the Spartans took quick advan­tage of an Irish penalty to knot the score at one. Guolla, on a nice feed from Kelly Harper. beat Louder through the legs. The two-goal spurt in a two­minute span was the only scor­ing of the night. 
The Irish offense looked crisp in the third period with their passes and their hustling style. The Irish fought hard for loose pucks, dove to block shots, and took the body at every opportu­nity. MSU coach Ron Mason appreciated the effort. "Notre Dame skates and works hard," he said. 
Despite the solid work, the Irish could not regain the lead. As has been the case thus far, they made some chances for themselves in both the third period and the overtime, yet could not convert. "We con­trolled the puck," said Ling. "Things are starting to come together for us. We'll keep working." 
On the defensive side, the team played very well. They did allow two breakaways, which Louder stonewalled, but on the whole turned in an excellent game. In particular, captain Matt Osiecki was outstanding. 
"Osiecki was a force. He's like a linebacker on blades," said Schafer. 
In addition to Osiecki's effort, Louder was superb after a night off. "Greg Louder did everything we asked and 
see HOCKEY I page 14 


rrfie :A{ptre 'Dame t£ng{isfi 'Department Invites you to tlie Inaugura{ Lecture of 






Seamus tJJeane 
%e 'Dona{d and Mari{yn 'l(f,ougli Cliair ofIrisli Studies 
"t£;r_traterritoria{: 'Ilie Production ofCu{tura{ Space in %otfern Irisli Writing" 
Seamus 'Deane, a mem6er of tfie !!{pya[ Iri.sfi Jlcademy, is widely considuuf tfie wor[as foremost scfio[ar ofIrisfi Literature and cu[ture. In addition to editing tfie :Jie(d'Day Jlntfio(oBY wfiicfi 'Brian :frie{lias ca({u{ "tfie most important Irisfi pu6{ication in tfie second liaif of tfiis century,· Seamus 1Jeane lias written severa{ 6oo/(j ofpoetry, inc(ua­ing (jradua{ Wars and Jlistory Lessons, severa{ wor/(j ofcriticism, inc{uding Ce{tic 1\.evivafs: l£ssays in Modern Irisfi Literature 1880-1980 Jl Sfiort Jlistory oflrisfi .Literaturb andrrfie frencfi $.evo{ution and 'En{ipfitenment in 'Eng{and; numerous artic(es in scfio{arfy anapopu{arjournafs, and a forthcoming nove{. 
rruesday, 9\[pvem6er 9, 1993 Center for Continuing 'Education 5-'luditorium 7:30p.m. 
--------------------------------~---~------------------------------------------------------­
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I lAKE [T ~ou 'vE ye.,.-To "'PilDFE~'bO"' VA,.., I!Je.~ W11s 
... "STut>ENT::> FEL-T 
Fo"'"' A f\JE6AT1VE. 

VE~~ ~owLEb&~A~l~ Aeou..-lliE 'Su~::rEc.r. · · 
~~, ITS 11\£, '(OUR \3 \G ACmMI'L\51-\MENT IN LIF£" .' 
'· 

OF INTEREST 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Counting-out 59 Synagogue numeros 60 Shipboard
1 Hebdomad 34 Taken aback, in lookout perch5 Performs 
&2"1could­
wedelns away 35 Bridgetown unfold ...": Shak. 
9Coe or Cram native &3 Malacca 
14~~breve 
37 Unit of 64 Palm product15 Pres., to the 
acceleration 65 Talks wildly military 38 Kiss aloft? 66 Ripened 16 Mites 
40From-Z 67 Soprano Sumac 17 Kind of taffy 
and namesakes 41 Uniondale19 Home of the skatersLorelei 43 Nonpareil 
DOWN
20 P.G.A. winner: 44 Pure1962 1 Epithet for Pope 45 Striver21 Of a heavenly 2 Middle East belt 48 Where Anna airline tutored23 Withers away 
3 Scat expert 2501ive~~ 50ACassini 
4 Green (uniform 51 Wrecked 
grasshoppermaterial) completely 
5 Sacred 26 Mrs. Cuomo 55 Emulates anagram and namesakes Cuomo 
&Caboodle's partner 7 Don Juan's 
.. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE mother a Boston fish dish 9 Guam, Saipan 
and others 
28 "I cannot-43 Cotton fabric 53 Holier--­10 Crane of fiction thou
lie" 4&Tilled 
11 Temporal 29 Native-born 47 Persons 54 Kind of race12 Soprano Berger Israeli engaged in: 
56 Span of oxen 

13 Browning's 31 Actress Rigg Suffix 
"Herve-"-57"C6mo­
32 Like a grain 49 HaJ·J· destination 
18 Because, in usted?" 
33 Nip, at the bar 51 Ivan or AlexisBonn 52 Kind of chord or 58 Fr. holy women 
36 --Japanese War: 1904-5 ·meter 61 United
decisively 24 Buffalo skater 
38Someare Lesser, some

26 Orlando N.B.A. 
Get answers to any three clues
Greater

team by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420­
39 Paragon 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
water 42 H'ave at 
·­
Tomorrow 7:30PM Stepan 
Phyllis Schlafly v. Big Head Todd and the Monsters 
Sarah Weddington 
ND/SMCIHCC STUDENTS $10 
"Changing Roles of Men and Women 

•
GENERAL$15
in the 90s" 
STUDENI' UMON BOARD• 
Tickets for BOTH Available at the LaFortune Info Desk crazy stuff and more! 




r---------------------­
A 
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, Novembt;r 8, 1993 
Women's soccer breezes through MCC Championships 
-
By BRYAN CONNOLLY ment's Most Valuable Player. Assistant Sporrs Editor Freshman goalkeeper Jen Renola held the fort in net by allowing only one 
Playing in the first Midwestern goal while facing 14 shots. She was Collegiate Conference women's soccer named the tournament's Most Valuable tournament this weekend, the Notre Goalkeeper. Dame women's soccer team easily "Those guys have been doing it all clinched its third consecutive league season," said Petrucelli. "We certainly championship and now awaits tomor­need them." row's announcement of the seedings for Daws, Masters, Henola, and sopho­this season's NCAA tournament. mores Michelle McCarthy and Julie 
The Irish claimed first-place by Vogel were named to the All­defeating Xavier and Butler by the Tournament team. scores of 4-0 and 5-1, respectively. The Daws led Notre Dame past Xavier in victories were their 15th and 16th con­yesterday's championship game by secutive wins over MCC opponents. scoring her team leading 16th goal and 
With the victories, the Irish improved adding two assists. The goal, which their record to 19-2 and secured their came off a direct kick, tied her with third-place national ranking and first­current tri-captain Stephanie Porter for place Central Region ranking. The the team record of goals in a season. squad hopes that this will earn Notre Daws' goal came at the 11:02 mark of Dame the right to host the first two the first half and proved to be the rounds of the NCAA tournament next game-winner. weekend. With the first half coming to a close, 
"We went 19-2 and had a great sea­Fisher followed Daws by notching her son," said Irish head coach Chris fourth goal of the season off a Masters' Petrucelli. "We deserve to play at assist. home." Masters and sophomore Hosella 
The Irish were led in the tournament Guerrero added insurance goals for the by their freshmen stand-outs. Cindy Irish midway through the second half. Daws, Stacia Masters and Kate Fisher The goals were scored only 1:13 sec­led the offense by scoring seven of the onds apart, with Daws and Guerrero squad's nine goals and adding four assists. Daws was named the tourna­
see WOMEN I page 14 

The Observer!T.J. Harris AII-MCC forward Rosella Guererro scored a goal in the Irish's 4-0 win over Xavier yesterday. 
No.3 Irish .await tourney site and seed By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor  
Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli has spent four years tirelessly trying to put together a team deserving of national recognition. After two heart-breaking sea­sons which ended with the Irish not being invited to the national tournament, the squad will finally be given its chance tomorrow when the NCAA an­nounces its tournament seed­ings. The Irish are currently ranked third in the nation and are 5-2 against nationally ranked opponents. Their only two losses came at the hands of top-ranked North Carolina and second-ranked Stanford. Last  
see TOURNEY I page 16  

-· 
Men's soccer earns automatic NCAA bid 
By MIKE NORBUT  Bader, who received the tour­ 
~1sWrirer  nament defensive MVP award  

 for his play this weekend. ''We  
For the first time since 1988,  could have made im­ 
the Notre Dame men's soccer  provements. but all in all, we  
team clinched a berth in the  played well."  
NCAAs by winning the Mid- Notre Dame's final goal came  
western ,Collegiate  with only 1:25 to play in the game, when freshman Chris  
Conference ,~ ~.  Mathis shot in a rebound off Ti­ 
tournament i,; 1 this weekend. · (7 {...~ '  tan goalie Kal Kaliszewski to give the Irish the 2-0 victory.  
"This is what ·,~/  Lanza and Brian Engesser were  
we worked to­ward all sea­1  credited the assists on the play. Though Detroit Mercy and  
son long,"  Notre Dame looked even statis­ 
said Irish Bert Bader  tically, with eight shots and  
coach Mike  eight corner kicks apiece, the  
Berticelli. who will coach his  young Titan squad was always  
first Notre Dame team in the  under heavy pressure from the  
NCAA tournament since joining  Irish.  
the Irish in 1990. "This was  "We haven't lost a game if we  
our goal at the beginning of the  scored first," said Lanza, who  
season."  was the tournament offensive  
In the finals yesterday, the  MVP. "As soon as we got that  
21st-ranked Irish posted a 2-0  first one, everyone knew the  
win over Detroit Mercy, a team  goals would come."  
they had beaten 3-1 earlier this  Notre Dame advanced to the  
year.  finals on Sunday with a 2-0 vic­ 
Notre Dame jumped on the  tory over Butler University.  
Titans early in the first half,  The Bulldogs were the only  
scoring with only 5:14 elapsed  conference team that had beat­ 
off the clock. Sophomore Bill  en the Irish in the regular sea­ 
Lanza scored off a header in  son, downing them 4-2 on  
front of the net off assists from  September 10.  
defender Chris Dean and mid­ "We didn't go in looking for  
fielder Jason Fox. The Irish  revenge," continued Bader.  
took this 1-0 lead with them  "We went in looking to win the  
into halftime.  game."  
Strong defensive play marked  Butler entered the game after  
the second half of the game.  defeating Xavier in a quarterfi­ 
The Titans were shut doWn by  nal matchup on Thursday.  
Dean, junior Dane Whitley, and  Notre Dame, who had received  
freshman Brian Engesser,  a first round bye for winning  
while goalie Bert Bader col­ the regular season title, used  
lected five saves to notch his  the rest to their advantage, as  
second shutout of the tourna­ they were able to eventually  
ment.  wear down the tired Bulldogs.  
"Each game we try to play  
 
against perfection," commented  see MEN I page 14  


Seniors go out on inspiring note 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sporrs Editor 

Not in their house. Not in their last regular season home game. 
The seniors on the Notre Dame volleyball made it perfectly clear that their finale would be repre­sentative of the achievements they have brought to the program, reducing Xavier to an unthreat­ening 'Opponent X' in dominating the Musketeers 15-11, 15-7, 15-3 en route to their third consecu­tive MCC regular season title. · 
"I definitely think it brought out a lot of emo­tion and heart in the seniors," noted Irish head coach Debbie Brown, whose 17th-ranked squad improved to 21-5. "They wanted to make their potentially last opportunity to play at home a good effort." 
Only three seniors were able to play for the Irish, as Molly Stark was forced to the sideline by an ankle injury, but they took over from the beginning. An ace by setter and co-captain Janelle Karlan gave Notre Dame a 1-0 lead, fol­lowed by a block by the other co-captain, Julie Harris. The third senior to start, defensive spe­cialist Dyan Boulac, made her presence felt with a sprawling dig that stopped a momentary Musketeer rally and gave the Irish possession. 
After the individual efforts, the seniors showed why teamwork has earned the Irish the recogni­tion they've gotten this season, as a Boulac pass and Karlan set ended in a Harris kill and Notre Dame point. 
"It aroused a lot of emotion, and was some­
The Observer/Jake Peters 

what sad to know that this was it," stated Karlan, 
Senior co-captains Janelle Karlan and Julie Harris 
whose 30 assists on the night added to her 
combine for a kill in Notre Dame's sweep of Xavier. 
4,000+ career total, which has rewritten the Irish offensive option to become available. Karlanrecord book. "However, it was exhilarating to killed a quick pass from Boulac for a 3-2 advan­know that this was the last chance we had to tage, and Harris notched one of her five totalshow what we know we can do." 
blocks on the night for a 5-4 advantage. 
The emotion of the seniors was passed on to Following two Coates service aces off her jumpthe underclassmen as well, as the Irish played serve, freshman Jenny Birkner took over.
some of their best volleyball of the season. The Hitting the ball harder than she has all season,team hit .323 for the match and dominated play Birkner was dominating. She hit backsets fromthroughout. 
Karlan, exploiting both the lines and the middleJuniors Christy Peters and Nicole Coates car­of the court in racking up a team high nine killsried the offensive load in game one, as Notre with no errors for a .692 percentage. 
Dame was able to overwhelm Xavier from the "The timing between Janelle and Jenny wasoutside. Both hitters used their superior ath­really good," commented Brown. "Sometimesleticism to render the Musketeer block ineffec­Jenny will try to place her shots if she's not com­
tive. Game two followed much the same pattern, as the Irish passing was sharp, allowing every see VOLLEYBALL I page 17 
Inside SPORTS 
·"·Wl'll!l!il 

Irish Hockey SMC Volleyball 
Dallas Wins Again A goal from sophomore 
".:·~;l 


The Dallas Cowboys Jaime Ling carries the 
Seniors lead the Saint strengthen their position Mary's volleyball team to 
' ..,.,..

• Irish to a tie against sev­at the· top of the NFLa season-ending win 
e . 
~­

enth-ranked Michigan 
with a 31-9 win over the~-j State 
see page 16 
Giants. see page 18 
see page 15 
~ 







