
Monday, November 15, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 50 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame student killed in weekend crash 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistam News Editor 
Mara Fox, a Lyons Hall fresh­man, was killed early Saturday morning when she was struck by a car along Douglas Road while walking back to campus from Macri's Deli with three other freshmen women and one of their older brothers. 
The driver of the car, John Rita, a Notre Dame Law School student, fled the scene. 
Fox. 18, suffered massive in­ternal head injuries and was pronounced dead on arrival to the St. Joseph's Medical Center emergency room about 1:22 a.m., according to a press re­lease from the St. Joseph's County Sheriffs department. 
She was accompanied by Lyons' freshmen Kathleen Policy, Jennifer Ramirez and Rebecca Hinck, and Dan Policy 
• 
see OBITUARY, page 3 

• 
see SECURITY, page 3 


from Poland, Ohio. The group was returning from Macri's af­ter giving up a long wait for a cab, according to Lyons Rector Sister Katheen Beatty. 
Rita faces charges of causing a death while driving intoxi­cated and leaving the scene of a fatal traffic crash, both Class C Felonies, according to authori­ties. He was released from the St. Joseph County Jail early Saturday morning on $1,000 bond. 
After fleeing the scene, Rita parked his car in the parking Jot of Kids Bedz, on Grape Road, walked to his apartment and went to bed, according to the press release. Three of Rita's friends who were in the car called police to report the crash. 
Rita was asleep when police arrived at his apartment and arrested him. He was taken to the police department and gave a statement admitting to his in­volvment in the crash, accord­ing to authorities. Tests indi­cated that Rita was still intoxi­cated three hours after the crash. 

Sergeant Dennis Dulcet was responding to the crash in his 



W
ith helmets held high. the Notre Dame football team waded through a throng of revelers celebrat­ing one of the biggest wins in school history, a 31­24 defeat of top-ranked Florida State. 
It was the first No. 1 vs. No. 2 game at Notre Dame Stadium since 1968, when top-ranked Purdue beat the Irish 37-22. 
More than 59,000 fans attended Saturday's game, and thou­sands more converged on South Bend to share in the excitement. 
People went to extremes to witness what was billed as one of the biggest college football games ever. Several hundred (;Oun­terfeit tickets were confiscated along with 40 false press creden­tials. 
Reports said that people paid up to $1000 to see the game. It wasn't decided until Notre Dame defensive back Shawn Wooden deflected a pass on the game's final play. 
The win lifts the Irish to the No. 1 spot in the polls for the first time since 1990, and puts them in a position to win their ninth national championship and first since 1988. 
The No. 1 sign atop Grace Hall will be lit tonight at 10 p.m. saluting the team's accomplishment. 
"This was a very special game. I was afraid this game wouldn't live up to the hype," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "I think it did." 
See SPORTS EXTRA 

Roemer: Service programs aid bill, communities 
By CHRIS HANIFIN associates in Washington about expected to work toward pro­viding a safe learning envi­News Writer service at Notre Dame," moting education and law en­ronment for young people. 
Roemer said to an audience forcement. "Your interest in helping to 
Students at large institutions consisting of esc staff, stu­The program is to be modeled define and refine the program like Notre Dame will play an dents, faculty, and South Bend after the summer service pro­is important, even if you don't important role in putting the residents. gram which took place across wish to act as a participant," National Service Bill into action "Notre Dame has a lot of the the nation last year. Roemer Roemer said. Suggestions for said Rep. Tim Roemer on mechanisms for service already stated that accomplishments improvements are always being Friday at the Center for Social in place. We want as little of like the immunization of actively sought, he added. Concerns. our funding as possible to go 105,000 children in Texas last The first grants for the pro­
On Sept. 21, the National and into setting up overseers for summer illustrate the value of a gram are to be distributed prior Community Service and Trust this program," Roemer said. national service program. to the summer of 1994. Roemer Act was signed into law, creat­By cooperating with institu­"We certainly have big roles said that there are a number of ing AmeriCorps, a new pro­tions like Notre Dame who al­for places like Notre Dame to concerns that need to be ad­gram which will allow 20,000 ready have supervisory appara­play in this program," said dressed before the distribution young people to earn education tus in place, the government Roemer. takes place. benefits in exchange for com­will be able to fund more As an example, Roemer said "One of our goals is to estab­munity service. Roemer char­participants in the program. that an institution like Notre lish a good deal of socio-eco­acterized the bill as "a pretty Furthermore, institutions like Dame could serve as a valuable nomic diversity within the pro­significant beginning point" in Notre Dame would be ideal for resource in "forming a part­gram. We are looking for a va­
promoting community service. providing places where any nership with local primary and riety of different areas to reach 
"I am delighted to be here necessary technical training of secondary schools to help alle­out and grasp. And as the because of all of the good the the program's participants viate their problems." Students President has suggested, I also Center does. I can't tell you could take place. The bulk of could volunteer as tutors and as how proud I am when I tell my the program's participants are big brothers and sisters, pro-see ROEMER I page 6 police car when he was hit by another car driven by Kathryn Palzer, 20, a Saint Mary's stu­dent, at the intersection of South Bend and Notre Dame avenues. 
Kathleen Cunningham, 23, a Saint Mary's student who was a passenger in Palzer's car, is in fair condition at the St. Joseph's Medical Center. where she is being treated for a broken pelvis and internal chest injuries suffered in the crash, according to a press release from the St. Joseph's County sherrifs department. 
Cunningham and Michael 
see ACCIDENTS I page 6 

Saint Mary's considering cable TV 
By KATIE CAPUTO Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
The Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) is still waiting to get feedback on the cable proposal that they sub­mitted to the College's Senior Officers in September, accord­ing to Patricia Warfield, advis­er for RHA. 
RHA submitted the proposal to the Senior Officers in mid­September and had hoped to hear from them later in the same week. Due to complica­tions, the Senior Officers have not been able to approve the proposal yet, according to Sister Mary Brassil, Acting Dean of Student Affairs. 
"The issue has not been dropped, but they just need to be thorough in their research so no one will be disappoint­ed," Brassil said. 
According to Brassil, an un­derground cable system would cost too much money, so the Senior Officers have been con­sidering other alternatives. 
"This makes it much more complicated than anyone had anticipated," Brassil said. 
The Senior Officers have con­

sulted Choice T.V. of Mishawaka who works with microwave antenna systems, according to Brassil. 
The microwave antenna system is a form of wireless ca­ble in which an antenna is placed on the roof of each building, according to Laura Vulgaris, office manager of Choice T.V. 
Each individual building would require an antenna sys­tem, said Vulgaris. Because Le Mans Hall has a copper roof, Vulgaris said that the building would require a little different type of installation. 
"We have signal tested each building and all are service­able," Vulgaris said. 
If the proposal is approved with a contract with Choice T.V., the lobby areas in each residence hall will have access to 16 cable stations. according to Vulgarts. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 15, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN GLANCE 


Look up: Who's nun1ber one? 
"We're number one" is a 

Andy Cabiness 
very popular thing to say. 

Spom Statistician
People make the claim 
about different things all 


the time. 

It means more, however, when it's true. As of yesterday afternoon, when the football polls were released, Notre Dame is number one. 
Some will make a bigger deal about it than others. Many will say that being number one only matters after January 1. 
Notre Dame is proud of it whenever it hap­~ens; and Grace Hall has a unique way of let­tmg everyone know this. It is called, simply, the "#1" sign. 
Unless you are a senior or are from the South Bend area (I qualify under the second), you have never seen the sign. The first time I saw the sign was 1988. In October, the Irish upset then top-ranked Miami 31-30. But it wasn't until the next week, when new No. 1 UCLA was also upset, that Notre Dame became number one. 
In retrospect, it doesn't seem like that big of a deal. We've been number one many different times in the past five years, often for weeks at a time. But this number-one ranking was special. It signaled the complete recovery of Notre Dame football from the disastrous early '80s. A pic­ture of the sign ran in Sports Illustrated, and thus, I got my first glimpse of it. 
It remained up the rest of the '88 champi­onship season. It hung there after the Irish clinched the national championship at the Fiesta Bowl. 
It stayed up for most of '89 as well. But 1990 came along with harsh disappointment. 
Notre Dame had regained the top ranking after losing it once after a stunning upset by Stanford. At was at Notre Dame Stadium where the Irish enjoyed a big lead over Penn State. They went on to lose the lead and the game on a last-second field goal. 
I, along with thousands of others, was stunned. It was ten minutes before I could man­age to get up and leave. It took me an hour to eat my dinner at the Huddle. On my way to the library to meet my ride, I stopped to watch as the sign was unceremoniously removed from Grace, never to be seen again. 
Until today. 

This season started with little hope of becom­ing number one. Even after defeating Michigan, three teams remained ahead of us and we had the opportunity to play and beat only one ol them. But after Miami and Alabama lost, fans came to this realization: If we beat Florida State, we would be number one. But beating Florida State was not going to be easy. 
Our Fighting Irish, despite incredible odds and Holando's first prediction, triumphed over Florida State on Saturday. Speculation began immediately: "Will the sign go up tonight?" This was not likely. Even though we were sure to be ranked first, it would make sense to wait until it became official. Many students called or went to Grace yesterday, hoping to see the sign go up. I deeided to find out when it would happen. 
The sign is to be put up today by Support Services. The staff at Grace Hall is trying to organize some sort of ceremony for tonight involving players, band members, and the lep­rechaun. Check your dining hall at dinner for more details. 
Seeing that sign go up on Grace again will be a great feeling. The only thing better would be returning for the Spring semester and seeing it still be there. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ot The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech Laura Ferguson T.J. Harris Michael O'Hara Production 
Sports Whitney Sheets 
Jonathan Jensen Kathie Young Viewpoint Graphics Mark Krejci Brendan Regan 
Michael O'Hara 

The Ob,.,rver (USPS 599 2-4000) ;, puhli,hcd Mond•y through friday L"Xlcpr during r-x.am and v.acarion pl'riud.\.. The Observer is a member of du· A\MKiarcd Prc:-s.s. AJI rcproducrion rights arc rC'!.erved. 
Army recaptures key base, ending biggest battle in 10-year war 
PALAU AIH BASE, Sri Lanka 

Sri Lankan forces recaptured a key northern military base 
Sunday that had fallen to waves of Tamil separatist rebels four 
days earlier, ending the fiercest battle of the 10-year civil war. 
Seaborne commandos and infantry fought through jungles and 
minefields to retake the Pooneryn army and navy complex, and 
rescued 900 soldiers who had been held out there since the 
camp was overrun Thursday. The army said 500 of its men 
were d_ead or missing, and claimed 700 Tamil Tiger rebels 
were killed. The rebels have been silent about their casualties 
since Friday, when they said they had lost 93 fighters. The 
rebels retreated in boats across a lagoon to the northern Jaffna 
Peninsula after de~troyin_g the camp and stripping the armory 
of heavy weapons, mcludmg two tanks, mortars and high-speed 
motorboats. The base is a vital link in the blockade of Jaffna, 
the stronghold of the rebels who have been waging a war since 
1983 for a separate nation in the north and east of the island 
for the minority Tamils. Before this weekend, at least 18,000 
people had been killed in the war. Though the army regained 
the base, the successful rebel assault proved the Tigers to be a 
discip_lined conventional force. That could strengthen their 
hand If peace talks ever get under way. Efforts to begin talks 
were ~ut on hold after the assassination May 1 of President 
Hanasmgh~ Premadasa, who was blown up by a suicide 
bomber believed to be a Tamil Tiger. At the same time, the 
loss of hundreds of combatants will be a heavy blow to the 
guerrillas. The army said the Tigers lost 350 men in another 
battle three weeks ago. The Tigers are estimated to have a 
force of about 10,000, mostly in Jaffna, a peninsula that juts 
out ~f nort_hern ~ri Lanka. "I don't know how long they can go 
on hke ~his, losmg so many men in quick succession," said 
army Bng. Lal Weerasuriya. At the Palali air base in Jaffna 22 
miles north of the recaptured camp, hundreds of troops loaded 
down with weapons and equipment waited for deployment as 
helicopters ferried out the wounded from the weekend fighting. 
Stretchers bearing the seriously wounded were loaded onto 
planes for Colombo, 185 miles south of the battle zone. 
Hundreds of Tamil rebels waded through the lagoon's foot­
deep mud and water to infiltrate the Pooneryn base at dawn 
Thursday, Weerasuriya said. "The attack came in waves and 
waves from all directions.'.' he said, quoting survivors. Breaking 
through the defense penmeter, the rebels overran artillery 
positions, the radar installation and finally the base headquar­
ters. "The Tigers outnumbered and outmaneuvered us " 
Weerasuriya told a group of reporters at Palali air base. The 
counteroffensive began Saturday, with 1,000 reinforcements 
and was stepped up early Sunday with the landing of 300 com­
mandos on a beachhead five miles north of the camp. 

Schwarzkopf competes in hunting contest 
BROKEN BOW, Neb. 

Hetired Army Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf wins some and he loses some, like a pheasant-
. hunting contest in which his team placed sixth out of eight competitors. Schwarzkopf competed with the Running Ringnecks in the 33rd Nebraska One-Box Pheasant Hunt on Saturday. Other celebrities participat­ing in the hunt were Dave Butz, former Washington Hedskins defensive tackle, and Gordon Johncock, Indianapolis 500 # champion. The hunt gets its name from the one box of shells allowed for each team. 
Spoiled food sends 20 partiers to hospital 
WEBSTEH, Mass 

A spoiled dish of chicken gizzards and bananas sent up to 20 people from an anniversary party to the hospital, authorities said Sunday. The dish was brought Saturday by a guest who drove from Camden, N.J., for the 25th wedding anniversary party, authorities said. lt apparently spoiled en route. Nine children and three adults were 
taken by ambulances to hospitals and up to eight others sought treatment on their own. said Karen Toukonen, an emergency medical technician for the Webster Ambulance Squad. They had diarrhea, nausea and severe abdominal cramps. "None of my children got sick. Thank God they didn't eat what I ate," said Carmen Hernandez, 37, of Weston, who was among those treated. Hernandez said the dish is a traditional Puerto Hican favorite. 
Japanese pay for right to strip for audience 
TOKYO 

It's not your usual 50 GIHLS 50. The customers pay to strip and strut their hour upon the stage. Why? "I want to stand out," says Yukiko Yahagi, 21, touching up bright pink lipstick that matched her nails. "I just love to see those men gather and watch me dance." Then she went onstage at Juliana's, which is not a striptease bar, but Tokyo's hottest disco, where hundreds of women perform every night in skintight ultraminis and bikinis. The women pay to appear on the "otachidai," or daneing platform, and men pay to watch them. Such eagerness to bare nearly all in public puzzles more traditional Japanese, to whom sexual allure is a glimpse of a geisha's nape. 
NATIONAL Weather 

INDIANA Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 15.
Monday, Nov. 15 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 30s 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 58° J 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H L Denver 31 27 New York 72 54 Atlanta 76 57 London 46 43 Philadelphia 75 53 Baltimore 75 50 Los Angeles 67 51 San Francisco 68 53 Boston 71 53 Miami 85 77 Seattle 48 33 Chicago 46 43 Minneapolis 37 29 Seoul 63 50 Columbus 69 60 Montreal 45 42 Toronto 59 47 Dallas 68 53 New Orleans 84 75 Washington, D.C. 76 56 
VJB Assoc~aled Press GraphJCSNet C1993 Accu·Wealher.lnc. 

Monday, November 15, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Lyons freshman missed by family, University 
By SARAH DORAN Assistam News Editor 
Gregarious, bright and ener­getic, Mara Fox was respected and admired by those who knew her as someone in love with everything in life. 
Fox, 18, a Lyons Hall fresh­man, was killed early Saturday morning when she was hit by a passing car while walking back to campus from dinner at Macri's Deli. 
"She was an outgoing and wonderful woman who will be missed by all of us," said Lyons rector Sister Kathleen Beatty. 
"Mara was the type of person that no matter how bad a day she was having, she always had a smile on her face and was concerned about how you were doing," said Stephanie Gallo, who was Fox's residence assis­tant. "She always had a positive outlook on life and will definite­ly be missed." 
Fox, who lived with her father in Oakton, Virginia, was a psy­chology and Spanish major who donated a great deal of her time helping others through 

November 15, 1993 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 3 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor ofLafortune. 
I. IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 
2. 
GERMAN CLUB: A meeting will be held Monday, November 15, at 7 p.m. in room 115 O'Shaughnessy. Elections will be held for Fundraising Commissioner and Social Commissioner, and there will be a discussion of other events occurring during the week. 

3. 
TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL:presents Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., and "A Discussion on Public Speaking" Tuesday, November 16, at 7 pm. in room 131 DeBartolo. All are welcome. 

4. 
AIDS AWARENESS: A meeting will be held Monday, November IS at 8:30 in room 114 O'Shaughnessy. 




(?MPUS MINISTRY 
A New Series for Graduate Students 
Presenting 

Dr. Dominic Vachon 
Discussing 

HowToCope With Anxiety And Stress 
• 
Concerned about taking first semester finals 

• 
Stressed about finding summer employment in today's job market 

• 
Worried about completing last minute projects and papers 


Dr. Vachon will discuss the skills necessary to cope with ~iety and stress as well as address your specific issues and questions. 
DATE: SUNDAY,NOVEMBER21 TIME: 7:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. LOCATION: Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Community Center 
Additional Presentations Next Semester. 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer O'Hara-Grace University Village 
' Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 

involvement in A.S.A.P ., a dorm service project that coordinated baby-sitting for the children of teen mothers so that they could attend parenting classes. 
"She was really enthusiastic about doing service," said Lyons' service commissioner Andrea Topash. "Mara touched a lot of lives in the short time she was here." 
Fox's friends could only re­emphasize the positive influ­ence her character had over all who came into contact with it. 
"Mara was one of the best people I ever knew," said Jennifer Ramirez, one of Fox's roommates. 
"She had so many talents," said Kathleen Policy, also one of Fox's roommates. "Mara was so outgoing and just nice to ev­erybody." 
"Mara was a great friend ­in two months time, I can hon­estly say she was one of my closest ever," said Rebecca Hinck, also a Lyons freshman. 
"She just loved Notre Dame," she said. 
Fox was accompanied by Policy, Ramirez, Hinck, and Dan Policy of Poland, Ohio, when she was fatally struck by the car. The three women, along with Beatty and Gallo, will attend Fox's funeral at St. John Neuman Church in Reston, Virginia this evening. 
A memorial mass will also be said at Sacred Heart Church tomorrow evening at 5:15 p.m. University President Edward Malloy is to preside and Father Thomas McDermott will deliver the homily. 
In response to Fox's death, Lyons Hall is in the initial stages of planning a Fun Run that would take place on the first study day and raise money for a scholarship fund, accord­ing to Mai Ly, a Lyons freshman class council representative. 
Fox is survived by her parents and two older sisters. 


Football fans occupy security in busy weekend 
Weight Watchers at Work 
4-6 Week Session 
To look your best for the holidays 

Information Meeting Tues, Nov. 16, 12:00 Noon Notre Dame Room -LaFortune 
To Register, or if you have any Questions, call 

Peggy Peterson, 631-5389 
The Graduate Students of The Creative Writing Program Department ofEnglish 
present WORKS IN PROGRESS 


A reading ofPoetry and Fiction 
Monday, November 15 


7:30 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
The Observer/Carolyn Wilkens 

Showing spirit 

Morrissey seniors Paul Stelzer and John Hudalla hang out after eat­ing cereal during the Breakfast Club, before the game on Saturday. 
tion credentials. Two men were arrested for the sale of counterfeit tickets and were positively identified by six vic­tims. 
"We had all kinds of prob­lems in the R.V. parking lots from fights to destruction of property," he reported. 
Some Florida State fans re­ported that people jumped on their motor homes and de­stroyed their flags in the R.V. parking lot around 2:30 Satuday morning. "We're still looking into those reports," said Rakow. 
"We had a pretty unusual case where a two-year-old girl was abducted during the game by a man from New York, " Rakow said. South Bend police reportedly chased and appre­hended the man and the girl was returned to her mother. 
"As far as crowd behavior after the game, we were pretty pleased." Although fans did storm the field following the victory, the crowd seemed more calm than at last year's Penn State game, according to Rakow. No one attempted to climb the goal posts which was a primary concern in avoiding injury, he said. 
In addition, the South Bend Police confirmed that several Notre Dame students were given citations for underage drinking on Saturday night. Two bars, Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, and The Commons, as well as a house party on Notre Dame Avenue were reportedly raided by the Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) task force. 
Further information was not available at press time. 
John Lucas contributed to this report. 
Demolition Man (R) 7:30, 10:00 
Ernest Rides Again (PG) 1:15. 
3:15. 5:15. 7:15. 9:15 
Look WhO's Talking Now (PG13) 
1 :30. 3:30, 5:30. 7:30. 9:30 
RoboCop Ill (PG13) 2:00.4:30 
The Beverly Hillbillies (PG) 2:00. 
4:45. 7:00. 9:15 
The Nightmare Before Christmas 
lPG) 1 :00, 3:00. 5:00. 7:00. 9:00 
the Three Musketeers (PG) 2:00. 
4:30. 7:15. 9:45 
Flesh & Bone (R) 1:45, 4:30. 7:15. 10:00 Malice (R) 2:45. 5:00, 7:30. 9:30 Rudy (PG) 1:30.4:15. 7:00.9:45 

By THERESA ALEMAN Assistam News Editor 
Due to the unprecedented in­flux of fans for the Florida State game, Notre Dame Security had its busiest weekend ever, according to Director of Security, Rex Rakow. 
Security problems arose be­fore, during, and after the game. "We had more problems than we've ever had at any one game, but that was to be ex­pected because we had more people than we've ever had at any one game," Rakow said. 
"We had quite a few prob­lems with counterfeit tickets and false identifications for stu­dent tickets," he said. He re­ported about 75-100 instances of counterfeit tickets and 125­150 problems with identifica­

page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 15, 1993 
Increased budget cuts NAFTA defeat may weaken Clinton 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press

could hinder recovery 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen suggested Sunday that 
further cuts in the federal deficit could stifle modest but steady economic growth and slip the nation baek into recession. 
Bentsen was 

responding to reports that President Clinton's economic advisers are urging that addi­tional budget savings be used for health care and other prior­ity programs. 
The treasury secretary, ap­pearing on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," said the administration does not favor additional deficit reductions be­yond the roughly $500 billion over five years negotiated ear­lier this year. 
The administration would prefer that Congress find fur­ther savings in specific pro­grams and then invest that money in high-priority areas such as health care, Bentsen said. 

There has been "nice, sus­tained growth" in each quarter this year, Bentsen said, "and we sure don't want to slip back into recession." 
Clinton's economic advisers reportedly have been unani­mous in opposing additional deficit reduction, fearing it could endanger the modest eco­nomic recovery. 
Earlier this month, Alice Hivlin, deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget, told a House Budget Committee hearing that "sub­stantial additional deficit reduction at this time could slow the growth of the economy at a crucial point in the busi­ness and policy cycles." 
Clinton promised last summer to find additional spending cuts as he searched for support for his deficit reduction plan in the House and Senate. Now the administration wants lawmak­ers to funnel any savings into programs such as health care, instead of toward deficit reduc­tion. 
WASHINGTON 
NAFT A supporters warned Sunday of dire consequences for the president and the nation if Congress this week rejects the free trade agreement with Canada and Mexico. 
Vice President AI Gore said a defeat for the North American Free Trade Agreement would be "really catastrophic" for President Clinton's foreign poli­cy agenda. Sen. Bill Bradley, D­N.J., said a loss on NAFT A "endangers this presidency." 
Advocates on both sides of the trade issue appeared on the Sunday news programs to make emotional pitches before the scheduled House vote on Wednesday. 
Gore, appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation," said Clinton is to attend an Asian-Pacific trade summit in Seattle the day after the vote, and a defeat "would be a terrible thing to do to the president, to do to the country." 
He said trading partners around the world are "waiting to see whether or not we have the courage of our convictions, whether we are willing to walk 
the walk, to talk the talk." 



War crimes to be examined 
On the other side, House 
By GEORGE GEDDA Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The formation of a tribunal to examine war crimes in the for­mer Yugoslavia is giving the Clinton administration hope that perhaps its most sobering foreign policy issue may even­tually produce a positive result. 
With a prosecutor and an in­ternational panel of judges in place, the U.N.-sponsored tri­bunal will hold a ceremonial opening Wednesday in The Hague, Netherlands, with an eye to bringing to justice some of those responsible for Europe's worst humanitarian tragedy since World War II. 
"We expect the tribunal to pursue its mandate vigor­ously," State Department spokesman Mike McCurry said Friday. "Holding those ac­countable for war crimes is something of a matter of inter­national justice and something deeply important to the United States," 
Former Secretary of State 


Survey says agreement foes are within striking distance 
ByAlANFRAM Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Foes of the North American 
Free Trade Agreement seem a 
handful of votes shy of being 
able to kill the pact in 
Wednesday's House show­
down, leaving President 
Clinton with an uphill but 
achievable fight to save the 
deal, an Associated Press sur­
vey has found. 

With opponents of the agree­
ment needing 217 votes to pre­
vail, 203 representatives said 
they would vote against the 
measure or were likely to do 
so. the survey found. The fig­
ure included 178 who said 
they would vote "no," and 25 
who said they were leaning 
that way. 

Arrayed against them were 
179 supporters of NAFTA, 
which would phase out tariffs 
and other restrictions on trade 
among the United States, 
Mexico and Canada. Of these, 
164 said they would vote for 
the agreement and 15 said 
they were likely to do so. 

That left 52 undeclared law­
makers and a daunting task 
for Clinton and his congres­
sional allies, who would suffer 
20 representatives of the AFL­CIO, a staunch NAFTA oppo­nent stood outside a White House gate as the lawmakers arrived, holding candles in silent protest of the agreement. 
"As representatives of the working people, we want the legislators sitting down to eat with the president to remember that this will cost jobs," said Mark Anderson, trade director for the labor federation. 
Earlier, two legislators an­nounced their support -Reps. John Tanner, D-Tenn., and Maria Cantwell, D-Wash. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., came out against the deal Sunday. 
Cantwell called the president a major political setback should the pact be rejected. 
Even if they retain all 15 representatives leaning toward the agreement, they will need the votes of 39 of the undecid­ed members, nearly four of every five. The measure will need a majority of votes to pass, which means 218 if everyone casts a ballot. There is one House vacancy. 
Both sides in the battle ex­uded cautious confidence Sunday, based on their own secret surveys of sentiment. 
"I see a horse race, a down­to-the-wire, hand-to-hand bat­tle that will be decided during the vote," Rep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M., a vote­counter for supporters, said Sunday. "My prediction is a narrow victory." 
"I think we're going to win," House Whip David Bonior, D­Mich., a leading congressional opponent, said in an interview. 
But in a reference to deals on citrus fruits, window glass and other items the White House has offered lawmakers for their votes, Bonior added, "It will depend on how much pressure members of Congress feel from their constituents whether we hold our own." 
in the Oval Office before an­nouncing her intentions at a news conference designed to counter NAFTA foe Hoss Perot who was appearing in Seattle. 
Bonior contended NAFTA would perpetrate non-demo­cratic practices in Mexico. "We are locking in the present sys­tem in Mexico," he said. 
Bonior and House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., have spearheaded opposition to NAFTA, an issue that has split the Democratic Party. Gephardt, appearing on CBS, said no lawmaker should be ostracized for his vote on this one issue. "We ought to look at the totality of their beliefs." 

Lawrence Eagleburger identi­fied Serb President Slobodon Milosevich and Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic as possible war criminals last December. 
Asked whether the Clinton administration agrees, McCurry said those judgments will be made by the prosecutor and the judges who will review the evi­dence. 
The U.N. Security Council decided to create the tribunal last February in response to worldwide horror over mass killings, torture, rapes and the systematic uprooting of entire populations known as "ethnic cleansing" in the former Yugoslavia. 
Tens of thousands have died in Bosnia and Croatia and the more than one million dis­placed face the prospect of Majority Whip David Bonior, D­Mich., said NAFTA was "in the worst interests of working peo­ple" in the three nations, and would result in lower wages for American workers and loss of 500,000 jobs to Mexico. 
An Associated Press survey of the House found that foes of the trade deal have the upper hand. With opponents of the agreement needing 217 votes to prevail, 203 representatives said they would vote against the measure or were likely to do so. Arrayed against them were 180 legislators who said they would vote for the agree­ment or are likely to do so. That left 51 undecided lawmak­ers. 
Clinton invited about 15 of the undecided to the White House for dinner Sunday night, hoping to press his case. About 

cruel deprivation in the winter ahead. The State Department estimated last week that the lives of more than four million in the former Yugoslavia are at risk. 
Have you heard about Communities ND? 

It's a chance for men and women at Notre Dame to ... meet new people ... read and talk about the Sunday Gospels before Mass ... share honest discussion and learn about your faith 
You probably know somebody who's in Communities ND already --you can try it too! 

Find out more! 

COME TO THE INFORMATION NIGHT Wednesday, Nov. 17 9:00 -10:00 p.m. Faculty Dining Room (south dining hall) 
refreshments will be served 
SIGN UPS AFrER TIIANKSGIVING ... NEW COMMUNITIES BEGIN JANUARY 15th!! 
uQUESTIONS?? CALL CAMPUS MINISTRY AT 631-5242 
-

(ZMPUS MINISTRY
srecial guest Sun 60 

tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 

Monday, November 15, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 




Gywnns, Seigel speak on financial difficulties 
By MATT FOLEY The outcome of this search­News Writer ing led to a team, headed in part by Siegel, but still under 
When athletes make it to the the Gwynns' control, that han­uppermost level in professional dles almost every aspect of sports, they must make sure Tony and Alicia Gwynn's pro­that they pay taxes at the right fessional and financial activi­time, keep money in the right ties. places, and stay on top of their In building this team, Tony economic situation, according and Alicia Gwynn emphasized to lawyer and graduate of the the concept of trust. They only Notre Dame Law School, Max wanted people that could give Siegel. them good, clear, common 
Siegel, with future baseball sense advice. Hall of Farner Tony Gwynn and "You have to gain trust," said his wife Alicia gave a presenta­Mrs. Gwynn, "we may not al­tion last Friday at the Notre ways agree with the other peo­
The Observer/Carolyn Wilkens 

Dame Law School on the topic ple on the team, but we trust
Singing in tune 
of Sports and Entertainment them to be objective in their Young Notre Dame fans demonstrate their spirit by singing "So long, farewell." The singers were just a 
Law. judgments." small part of the many pre-and post-game activities around campus this past weekend. 
Tony Gwynn has a two-fold Siegel reiterated this point personal interest in this field. when he called his field a Not only is he a superstar on "business of relationships," but
Pope bestows blessing despite injury 
the baseball field, but due to he also told of two other impor­
bad advice and his own mis­tant parts to Sports and By BRIAN MURPHY about a month. voice of the Holy See -has judgment he went bankrupt in Entertainment Law -image , Associated Press called the charges "filthy, wor­1987. and substance. 
•I
The incident was "another thy of only disdain." During this tough time, Tony First. to make it in the busi­VATICAN CITY chance to unite myself. .. with The commentary, broadcast and Alicia Gwynn decided to ness, a budding Sports and 
With his right shoulder ban­brothers and sisters who are Saturday, described Cardinal take matters into their own Entertainment lawyer must daged under his robes, Pope suffering," the pontiff said in Joseph Bernardin of Chicago as hands. Alicia Gwynn initiated market himself to get noticed, John Paul II his first public appearance "well-balanced and a man of measures to learn more about according to Siegel. Second, blessed the since leaving a Rome hospital prayer." the process that burned them. this same person must be a crowd at St. Friday. It also claimed that charges of "I did everything." she said, good lawyer. Peter's The 73-year-old pope ap­abuse are often made against "I took classes. I found Most importantly, developing Square with peared in good health during "American priests in order to lawyers. I tried to look out for and honing good legal skills is his left hand the 15-minute address from his collect compensation money." the future." paramount to getting a clien­Sunday and quarters overlooking the Mrs. Gwynn assumed the tele and keeping others inter­thanked those square. Steven Cook, 34, charged in a monetary considerations of the ested in retaining a lawyer's who treated "From my heart, I want to $10 million lawsuit filed in family and slowly built up a services, according to Siegel. him last week express my gratitude to all who Cincinnati on Friday that he team of experts to handle all of "After all, that's what theyafter his fall. immediately provided the nec­was sexually abused during the Gwynn's business endeav-pay you for," he said. 
The pope essary medical attention," he high school by Bernardin, who ors. said. was archbishop of Cincinnati 
Look for the Boston College Preview
He did not mention the sexual from 1972 to 1982. tumbled down four stairs on assault accusations against a Bernardin, who now heads Thursday. Doctors told him to prominent U.S. cardinal. But the Chicago archdiocese, has 
in Friday's Sports Extra 
keep the shoulder bandaged for Vatican Radio -an official denied the allegations. 
a-tEG 356 01 #0566-Change time to: TH 08:00-09:15
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
COMM304 2 8 #9728-Remove Permission Required and COMM 313
COURSES ADDED 
COTH 361 01 #5781-Add prerequisite: COTH 101, 104,201 or 204AME 700 02 #5793-Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr hr. 
COTH 468 01 #3800-Change time to: MW 02:20-04:50AME 700 03 #5794-Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr. hr. 
EDUC 324 27 #8427-Add restriction: Majors only 
ANTH 488X 02 #5795-Dir Rsrch in Bioarchaeology II; 3 cr. hrs.; 
EDUC 340F 2 8 #8428-Add restriction: Majors only Permission Required; by invitation only EDUC 350F 30 #8430-Add restriction: Majors only 
CE 598F 01 #5797-Constitutive Model Struct Mech; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 
EDUC 370 40 #8440-Add restriction: Majors only 
11:00-12:15 
EDUC 370 42 #8442-Add restriction: Majors only CHEM 1 1 1 0 1 # 5 7 9 6 -Modern Chemistry & Biochemistry Seminars; 0 cr EDUC 475 66 #8466-Add restriction: Majors only hrs.; H 01 :15-02:05; Freshmen only E<n'J 123A 01 #5094-Change time to: MW 01:15-02:05 
~ 464 01 #5787-lntro to Neural Networks; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 11:00­
E<n'J 123T01 #5061-Changetimeto: F01:15-02:05
12:15; cross-listed with CSE 472 
E(X)\1 123T02 #5062-Changetimeto: F01:15-02:05 
~ 563 01 #5784-Stochastic Process; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required 
E<n'J 123T03 #5063-Changetimeto: F01:15-02:05ENC:i. 440M 01 #5791-Shakespeare in Performance II; 4 cr. hrs.; MWF E<n'J 123T04 #5064-Changetimeto: F01:15-02:05
11: 15-12:30; Permission Required; cross-listed 
GOVT 423 01 #5777-Add prerequisite: GOVT 141 or 341with COTH 440 GOVT 431 01 #5202-Add prerequisite: GOVT 141 or 341ENa 457Z 01 #5799-Sem: 18th Century Poetry; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45­HIST 685 01 #5288-Change days and time to: M 04:30-07:0004:00; cross-listed with ENGL 550B; Senior majors liPS 679A 01 #4069-Change time to: TH 12:45-02:00only liPS 679B 01 #4068-Change time to: TH 12:45-02:00ENa 465A 01 #5801-Victorian Lit. and Culture; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 01:15­LAW 679A 01 #4067-Change time to: TH 12:45-02:0002:30; Majors only; cross-listed with ENGL 567-01 LAW 679B 01 #4070-Change time to: TH 12:45-02:00
ENGL 497E 01 #5800-Objectivist Strain Am. Poetry; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 
MARK231 B 01 #0663-Change days and time to: H 02:45-05:15
02:20-03:35; Junior and Senior majors only; 
MBA 645 01 #2069-Change credit hours and begiinning and ending datescross-listed with ENGL 590-01 
to: 3, 01/12/94-04/27/94
GOVT 474 01 #5782-Conflict Resolution -Theory and Practice; 3 cr. hrs.; 
ME 236 L 0 1 # 11 8 8 -Add: ME 236 or CE 236 prerequisite
W 02:30-05:00; Junior and Senior majors only ME 439 01 #1929-Changeexamtypeto: D
through 3rd period; then open to all Juniors and ME 445 01 #0230-Delete ME 340 as a prerequisiteSeniors; cross-listed with liPS 474G ME 456 01 #4855-Change time to: MWF 02:20-03:10GOVT 496 01 #5783-Social Concerns Seminar: Washington; 1 cr hr.; 
Ml 525 01 #5324-Title should be: "Topics: Early Christianity" 
Permission Required contact Center for Social 
Ml 673 01 #5340-Change time to: W 02:30-05:00Concerns; cross-listed with THEO 363 PSY 4 53 0 1 #54 2 0 -Add Permission RequiredliPS 474G 01 #5785-Conflict Resolution -Theory and Practice; 3 cr. 
ROFR 451 01 #5453-CourseistaughtinFrench
hrs.; W 02:30-05:00; Permission Required; cross­THEO 584 01 #2730-Change time to: W 11:20-12:35listed with GOVT 474 THEO 593C 01 #3506-Change time to: W 02:35-04:35MSA 574 01 #5788-Auditing Theory and Practice; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 01:15­
THEO 616 01 #5575-Changedayto: H09:30-12:00
02:30; cross-listed with ACCT 475 
THEO 673 01 #5578-Change time to: W 02:30-05:00PHYS 448 01 #5790-Senior Seminar II; 1 cr. hr.; M 03:25-04:15 THEO 680 01 #2982-Change time to: MW 12:50-02:05
THEO 500C 01#5789-Faith and Tradition II; 3 cr. hrs.; H 08:30-1 0:30; Permission Required 
COURSES CANCELLED 


CHANGES 
#3859 -~ 498A-01 #5285 -HIST 664-01AERO 465 01 #4506-Remove all restrictions 
#5769 -~ 498J-01 #5778 -liPS 423G-01
ANTH 4 73 01 #4978-Add Permission Required #5145 -ENGL 409-01 #0947 -ME 498C-01ARCH 246 01 #1116-Change times to: TH 11:00-12:15 #5140 -ENGL 440A-01 #3631 -ROSP 212-02ARCH 598A 01 #1251-Change days and time to: W 06:30-09:30; remove #5141 -ENGL 440B-01 #4782 -sex: 456-01Permission Required 
#5777 -GOVT 423-01 #5490 -sex: 670-01
CAPP 4 70 01 #3155-Add Permission Required #5234 -GOVT 670-01 #1453 -THEO 366-01a-tEG 327 01 #2533-Change days and time to: TH 11 :00-12:15 





Tickling the ivories 

William Cerny, Notre Dame professor of music, performs in the facul­ty recital at the Snite Museum yesterday afternoon. During the recital titled "The Romantic Prelude" Cerny performed several works by Chopin and Rachmaninoff. 
The Observer • NEWS Monday, November 15, I 993 

Puerto Rico votes on status in U.S. 
By DAVID BEARD 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 
Puerto Ricans turned out heavily Sunday to vote their preference for their political future -continued U.S. com­monwealth status, indepen­dence or an attempt to become the 51st state. 
Political status has been de­bated here almost since the moment U.S. troops captured this Caribbean island in 1898, ending four centuries of Spanish colonialism. 
About 70 percent of the 2.3 million registered voters in the biggest outlying U.S. territory were expected to cast their bal­lots. Long Jines of voters formed in San Juan and in mountain towns despite several brief, intense showers. 

Polls opened at 8 a.m. (7 a.m. EST) and closed seven hours later. First results were ex­pected Sunday night. 
"Participation has been sub­stantial," said Juan Melecio, di­rector of the election commis­sion. 
Pollsters predicted a neck­and-neck race between state­hood and commonwealth, with independence gaining no more than six percent of the vote. 
The non-binding plebiscite has attracted close attention by District of Columbia residents, also in line for statehood, and the 22 million Hispanics in the continental United States, in­cluding 2.6 million Puerto Ricans there. 
''I'm voting for statehood," security guard lsmael Martinez said Sunday outside a grocery store in suburban Guaynabo, en route to the polls. He said statehood offers more security for Puerto Hicans to retain their 
U.S. citizenship and more bene­fits for island residents. 
Former commonwealth leader Victoria Munoz ex­pressed confidence in a com­monwealth victory, which would thwart statehood's mo­mentum and maintain the cur­rent status for years. 
Commonwealth supporters argue the present status is "the best of two worlds," allowing Puerto Ricans to have U.S. citi­zenship while maintaining a degree of autonomy. 
Princess Diana prays for peace in N. Ireland 
Associated Press 
ENNISKILLEN, Northern Ireland 
Princess
.. Diana joined . Protestants and Roman Catholics for a Remembrance Day service Sunday at the war memorial where 11 peo­ple died in an Princess IRA bombing Diana in 1987. 
The princess, wearing a black suit and hat, laid a wreath of red poppies on behalf of the nation at the memorial, which commemorates those killed in the two world wars. 

Gordon Wilson, a member of the Irish Senate whose daugh­ter Marie was one of the bomb­ing victims, also laid a wreath. 
Diana's visit to Northern Ireland was kept a secret for security reasons. Buckingham Palace announced Saturday that she would attend a Remembrance Day service in London with other members of the royal family. 
For the first time, the 
Enniskillen service featured an intercession for peace from the Homan Catholic church as well as the Protestant Church of Ireland and Methodist and Presbyterian churches. 
Diana later joined Protestant and Catholic children in a sym­bolic "Cry for Peace" in the troubled British-ruled province. 
Within sight of the cenotaph, the youngsters planted daffodil bulbs and a peace cairn -a traditional pyramid landmark of rough stones-at the river's edge. Diana planted a bulb and placed the final stone on the cairn. 

Accidents 
continued from page I 
Kennedy were in the car's back seat and were thrown through the rear window when the crash occurred, according to the press release. Kennedy was released from Memorial Hospital after treatment for lacerations and contusions. 
Another passenger in the car, Kathleen Ebner, 20, also a Saint Mary's student, was re­leased from St. Joseph's Medical Center after receiving stiches for an injury to her left ear, said the release. 
Duket, 42, was released from Memorial after receiving treat­ment for minor abrasions and contusions. 
Palzer was cited for minor in consumption of alcohol and re­leased. Safety belts and an airbag prevented more serious injuries in this crash, according to the release. 


Roemer 
continued from page 1 

think we need diversity in the participants of the program. I like to envision someone from a household with a $50,000 in­come working toward a com­mon goal with someone with a $3,000 income," Roemer said. 
"The last thing we want is for this to turn into handouts or a patronage system," said Hoerner. 
He added that while some abuses are likely to occur in a program of this size, steps are being taken to prevent them. 
"We have been picking the brains of the Peace Corps, ask­ing 'what mistakes did you make and how did you deal with them?' We have to be pre­pared to readily admit when we have made a mistake," said Hoerner. 
Hoerner stated that it would be a shame if the service pro­gram was hampered by friction 
t 
ADVENT 
between Democrats and Republicans. 
"We are looking for biparti­sanship; we want Democratic and Republican governors to start [this program] up," said Roemer. 
In order to limit the effect of state governors hostile to the service program, Roemer said that the funds will be dis­tributed in thirds. One-third of the funding will go to the states, one-third will be distributed through federal agencies, and one-third will be available from the federal government on a competitive basis. 
Roemer also stated that the care must be taken that no one is actually hurt by the program. 
"Labor unions have stressed in very strong terms that they don't want us to supplant their apprenticeships or other train­ing programs. We are looking to see what jobs will not dis­place people," he said. 
It is hoped that in the long run the program will promote both volunteerism and service 


GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, November 21 3:00-7:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection on the biblical texts of the Sundays of Advent in preparation for the celebration of Christmas. 
l'lare: Fischer Graduate Community Center 
Cost:  The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper  
for which a small donation will be welcomed.  
CALI.  BY  FRIDAY  Novem her I 9 TO RESERVE A PLACE.  

Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Chaplain 631-8601 or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. 
1m 
(2\MPUS 
~.11NI\1RY 

as a profession, said Roemer. 
"This program is defining what is important in this coun­try, things like teaching and trying to help the poverty­stricken. We must make our children our focus," he added. 
Roemer recommend the book There Are No Children Here by Alex Kotlowitz to anyone who wishes to know who the pro­gram will help. The book, often used in the Arts and Letters Core Course, describes the daily life of children in a Chicago housing project. 
"It is like reading a fictional novel. It is just unbelievable to witness the amount of problems we face in this country due to violence, lawlessness, and edu­cational shortcomings," said Roemer. 
Roemer feels the program is especially valuable in that it helps people on two levels ­those served as well as those performing the service. 
"The supporters of the service program hope someday to bring children before Congress to show how they were helped. When this program is re­assessed in three years, we need to be able to say not just 'look at this student who was able to get through sehool' but also say 'look at the thousands of children we helped immunize or educate.'" 
HANK THE LORDaWITH ALL YOUR HEART 
YOU ARE INVITED ..... . 
'T:JiYJ2{1(5q['])J1{fj ~.7l.'YE/l?.._ ST/J?.._o/ICE 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1993 
7:00 pm BADIN HALL CHAPEL 
Prayer aniPraise to tlie Lari tlirougli '13!'13L'E 2?,_'EJW!7{§ 'J?....'E:TL 'ECTIO'J{S %vs1c 
'Direc teti 6y REV. AL D'ALONZO, esc 
:Tar adiit:umal information pfease ca[[ CMd!P'US MI7{JSTR.:Y 631·5242 
0MIJS 
MNI>TRY 
-


Monday, November 15, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Bandits attack and kill 15 Cabinet accepts PLO condemnation 
By GWEN ACKERMAN Haim Mizrachi, which Israel is starting to and is capable of
U.N. workers in Somalia 
Associated Press says was carried out by mem­controlling the area." said By NEJLA SAMMAKIA Nations and said it underscored bers of Arafat's own Fatah fac­Environment Minister Yossi 
a rise in banditry. JERUSALEM tion of the Palestine Liberation Sarid, one of the most liberal On Saturday, armed bandits Israel accepted the PLO's Organization. members of the Cabinet. MOGADISHU, Somalia hijacked a U.N. vehicle, killing condemnation of the killing of a On Sunday, a group calling it­Since the Sept. 13 signing of 
Bandits held up a truck con­an American civilian and Jewish settler, but pressed self the Black 13th of the agreement, eight Israelis voy and shot dead 15 Somalis wounding two other U.N. em­Vasser Arafat on Sunday to ex­September Brigade claimed re­have been killed. Only and wounded 13 before escap­ployees before fleeing with the ert more control over the occu­sponsibility for Mizrachi's death Mizrachi's death has been ing with 10 of the trucks, U.N. car. A memorial service was pied territories before the im­and pledged to launch similar linked to the PLO. officials said Sunday. held Sunday for Kai Lincoln, plementation of autonomy. attacks to disrupt the peace Foreign Minister Shimon 
Italian troops gave chase. re­24, of Hoboken, N.J. A day before peace talks were process. Peres called Mizrachi's death covering four trucks and hand­"There appears to be an in­to resume, Israeli Police "an exception," and said "the 
Associated Press 
Minister Moshe Shahal said A statement from the group PLO, as an organization, is ful­ing over four of the bandits to creased possibility of banditry Arafat must rein in radicals, in Lebanon said the five ac­filling its obligation to halt ter­
the Somali police, said U.N. within Mogadishu," U.N. mili­
spokesman Farouk Mawlawi. It tary spokesman Capt. Tim especially those from the ex­tivists arrested by Israel in con­rorism." was not clear how many ban­McDavitt said. "A lot of the tremist Hamas and the Islamic nection to the killing were all PLO activist Samir Shehadeh, dits attacked or whether any militia, a lot of the people out Jihad groups, which oppose members of the newly formed whose son Nizar led the ring were wounded. there fighting for the militia, Israel-PLO peacemaking. group of Fatah dissidents. accused of Mizrachi's murder, 
The convoy of 14 trucks was are presently inactive. Perhaps "This is what we expect from Israel said Arafat's condem­called for Israel to condemn 
on its way back to Mogadishu they don't have anything better him, and this is his test. This is nation, the first time he de­rioting settlers and soldiers how we will know how the nounced a Palestinian attack in who kill Palestinians. 
after unloading at an Italian to do." 
Gen. Mohamed Farrah Aidid, agreement will progress and Israel or the occupied lands, Shehadeh accused Israeli in­base Friday night. The Somalis 
were believed to be carrying leader of one of Mogadishu's what will be the extent of his would enable peace talks to re­terrogators of injuring Bassem cargo under contract for the two strongest rival clans, or­validation on the ground," sume. Tamimi, also being held for 
Shahal told reporters after the "When the PLO condemns Mizrachi's death. 
United Nations, Mawlawi said. dered a unilateral cease-fire 
against U.N. forces in October weekly Cabinet meeting. terrorism it is definitely neces­The daily Haaretz said 
U.N. officials dismissed the after a firefight Oct. 3 killed 18 On Saturday, Arafat issued a sary and good, but it is not Tamimi was hospitalized with possibility that the attack may American soldiers and an esti­statement denouncing the Oct. enough. The PLO needs to show severe head bleeding 
29 killing of Jewish settler at least preliminary signs that it Wednesday.
have been aimed at the United mated 300 Somalis. 
Mandela slams DeKlerk and Inkatha as violence continues in South Mrica 
By DONNA BRYSON Natal Province, Mandela told inclination to ease his criticism socialism and deny the rights of chronic political violence that Associated Press residents that voting for his despite the crucial political ne­minority groups. has killed thousands of blacks 
African National Congress in gotiations wrapping up near They want autonomous and is considered the greatest 
IXOPO, South Africa the nation's first multiracial Johannesburg. homelands where they can gov­threat to the April vote. 
ANC leader it election in April was the only The government and the ANC ern themselves, and have Nelson way to end the bloodshed. have spearheaded the talks, threatened armed rebellion Police said Sunday that five Mandela "The government, including which are expected to complete against an ANC government. bodies were found in squatter blamed the (President F.W.) de Klerk, is work this week on a draft con­Both the government and area near Durban. No motive government conducting a war against stitution that would guide the ANC have held separate talks for the killings was given, but and the rival blacks," Mandela said, adding nation after the April election. with the election opponents, but much of the Natal fighting Inkatha that police were colluding with The ANC is expected to win the Inkatha leader Mangosuthu stems from the ANC-Inkatha Freedom Inkatha "against the demo­vote. Buthelezi said Saturday there power struggle in the province. Party on cratic movement in this coun­An alliance including Inkatha was little chance of any agree­Mandela called on the crowd Sunday for try." and pro-apartheid whites op­ment being reached soon. at Ixopo, in southern Natal, to the political De Klerk and Inkatha have poses the constitution and elec­At Mandela's "people's fo­resist forces trying to prevent violence denied similar charges by tion, saying the process would rums" this weekend in Natal, the election. "They can never plaguing this community. Mandela in the past. Mandela's lead to an ANC-dominated gov­the power base of Buthelezi, stop the march of the people 
On a campaign swing through accusation showed he has little ernment that would impose people complained about toward democracy." he said. 
Nelson Mandela 







You're supposed 
to get alot out ofcollege,

Out this is ridiculous. 

Macirdosb LC 475 4/EXJ, Apple Color Plus Macintosh Quadra~ 610 8/160, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple Keyboard II and mo!Lse. 14" Display, Apple Ke;board II and mouse. 
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize select Macintosh· or PowerBook'computer, you'll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy software programs. Its all included in one low price. And the software an Apple'" computer? It does more. It costs less. It's that simple. ,_ package alone has acombined SRP value of $596~ Itwas designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 
-® 

Apple PowerBook Duo •• 230 4/fXJ (with Macinwsb External Floppy Disk Drive and PowerBook Duo Floppy Adapter not sbown). 
Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
"Based on /be combined Su[iJiesled Retail Prices (SRP) ofthe products in The Campus Sof/u,are Setfor MacinlruiJ as ofOctober I, 1993. Soflu·are is no/ included in the original product packaging as shou1z in this ad Butyou u;/1 receit·e these same soflu·areprogram< m an mlegrtded packagefrom Apple. ©1993 Apple Computer. Inc. All nghls reserzm Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh. Macintosh Quadra and Pou'I!T'Book are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. PotrerBook Duo is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. 
,..._..----------------~-------­page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 15, 1993 
7£e Xoire 7Jame I c5ainl !JJ(ary 's I Jfoij Gross Gommunily 

7f!JJ(emoriaf!JKass Y.or 

ox 

ByonsJfaff !Jirs!Year c5iudeni 7lii£e 23asi//ca ofi.he c5acredJfearl 
7uesday, 5:15p.m. Y?ev. 0dward!Jl(afloy, G. c5. G. , !J+esideni ofi.he Wniversify, !l+esider 
Y?ev. 7£omas !J/(c7Jermoll, G. c5. G, preac.hiny c5r. Xai£/een 23ealiy, c5. c5. ;}, concfudiny refleclions 




CAMPUSES 
Monday, November 15, 1993 page 9 
Gay student groups challenge campus harassment 
By GUY LORANGER News Writer 
Homosexual students are emerging from out of campus closets around the country, bringing demands for recogni­tion and acceptance. Although the situation differs among schools, most homosexual stu­dents are confronting common obstacles of harassment, dis­crimination, and apathy. 
At Detroit-Mercy, the main concern for gays and lesbians is the Catholic school's anti-dis­crimination policy, which does not otTer homosexuals the same protection as other campus mi­nority groups. 
"As far as I'm concerned, it's a non-issue," said Ken Henneldt, Detroit-Mercy's vice­president for student affairs. "No specific policy exists, and neither has there been a vocal demand for one." 
However, Tom McGuire, the school's director of campus ministry, said, ''I've spoken to homosexual students who feel they are living and working in a close-minded, sometimes hos­t~le environment. They would hke to see sexual orientation di­rectly mentioned in official pol­icy." 
Last spring, at Marquette University, a group of gay and lesbian students gathered upon the steps of the administration building to protest their exclu­sion from official anti-discrimi­nation and harassment policies. 
According to Derek Smith of the Marquette Tribune, their pleas fell upon deaf ears. "People aren't really concerned with the issue of homosexuality 
Editor's Note: In an effort to put Notre Dame issues and events in perspective, The Observer introduces the weekly 'G_ampuses' page. The page azms to show how Notre Dame, with its unique Catholic cul­ture, fits into the world ofhigh­er education. Look for it every Monday. 
on our campus," he said. "It's pretty much a taboo subject." 
Marquette's office for student afTairs claimed they had not re­ceived any applications for an officially recognized homosex­ual student group. "I don't think it would get approval any­way," An worker in student afTairs said. "Not here, not at a Catholic college." 
Gay and lesbian students at Marquette, however, do have the benefit of seeking counsel­ing through an officially spon­sored campus ministry program run by Liz Duggan. 
"It's basically a place where people can go to feel safe amongst each other," said Duggan. "Our activities are low key and strictly confidential. We talk about serious things confronting a homosexual per­son's life, such as telling your family and facing harassment from those around you." 
On the Bloomington campus of Indiana University, incidents of harassment and discrimina­tion have escalated into a major problem. 
According to Sue Wanser, a faculty adviser to Out, the school's officially-recognized gay, lesbian, and bisexual peo-

Georgetown sets example 
By MARGARET VIDA News Writer 
Both the federal government and the District of Columbia threatened to withhold funding for the construction of two new facilities At Georgetown Univfersity until official recog­nition was given to their gay and lesbian organization. Not until 1988, after extensive bat­tles in the courts, was an out of court settlement reached, and the university consented to fund the organization. 
Five years later, the group is o~e ~f the highest funded orga­mzatJons on campus. 
"The Office of Student Programs allows Pride to exist as a support group. For the majority of people who attend the meetings. it's the first step for them. They come back because they feel like they have a peer group that they can relate to, making it easier for them to come out," said Dew. 
On a semi-regular basis, they also invite heterosexuals to their meetings to hold forum­like discussions. "At straight­nights we discuss what [hetero­sexuals') responsibility is [to homosexuals). We normally have about 25-30 straight stu­dents show up. We work main­ly to bring about a greater awareness," said Dew. 
There is no formal opposition group on campus. and there has only been one recognized incident on campus this year. "A few weeks ago, Pride had put up all these signs for National Coming Out Day, and some anonymous group took them down and replaced them with anti-gay flyers," said stu­dent Jennifer Almeida. 
As a result, Pride gained greater support from the Office of Student Programs. "The Office of Student Programs offi­cially recognized that as inap­propriate behavior. And gener­ally, Student Programs has been really helpful," said Dew. 
"There has been no push from other student oragniza­ti~ns to limit the funding of Pnde. The fact that the univer­sity funds this organization isn't an issue because the law suit was settled so long ago. I think students have just come to accept it. If students are opposed to it, they don't care !hat the group gets money, they JUSt have a moral problem with it, " said Georgetown student, Ward Kruse. 
Georgetown serves as some­what of a case study for other Catholic universities. Dew receives many calls from other Catholic schools that wish to have a similar organization on their campuses. 
"New Catechism said it's wrong to discriminate against homosexuals. This suggests that a Catholic institution shouldn't deny a gay and les­bian group from getting fund­ing. And we do have restric­tions. It's certainly not 'The Dating Game.' The Office of Student Programs allows us to exist as a support group," said Dew. "Now that we are funded and recognized, people look to us to see how it is possible that a Catholic university can have this." 
"u 
l 

ND/S~C students demonstrate at the April 25, 1993, March on Washington for Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Equal Rights and Liberation Nearly every university was represented at the march. · 
pie's union, there have been several accounts of abusive name-calling and violence against homosexual students. 
"The shame is that many of these cases go either unnoticed or unreported," she said. "It's as if some people have been so­cialized to the point where they can actually bear harassment." 
The I.U. administration is quite active in working towards the fulfillment of its gay com­m~nity_'s needs. Recently, a umvers1ty task force released a report with several suggestions on improving the campus life for homosexual students. 
Among suggestions were the establishment of a cultural cen­ter on campus to deal with ho­mosexual issues, as well as a change in the university's hous­ing policy, specifically calling for a re-definition of the family unit, which is currently re-
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
The Catholic Church's stance 
9!1 honwsexuality holds a; 
strong i.nfluen~<e on adminis· 

tration policy at Notre Dame. 

Th~ Church acknowledge~
tile eXistence of homosexuauey:;. 
but strongly condemns those 
who commit homosexual a 
&~ .. 

D!SMC, the gay, Ies 1 and bisexual support gr9~p fQr tb,~ Notte Dame andSainJ Mary's community since 1972, is thereby not outlawed, but it al,S,o crumot rec(live Qle status of an o(ficial stw:ient organi•
zation. ··· 
ov~"would 

consistent with the Catholic 
I1tission of the universit · a(}~ 
()Otding.to f'ather P . r 'D~ 
Rocca, assistant vice-president 
ff)t student affairs, 

.·.·....~.·a rEl$ult, GLND/SMCisJor~~ 
E~dden to use university tal 
cHities. hold public fund rais" 
;TaQ\lE)rtisE! J}leir n · · ·· · 
pus Dledia. or re 
financial assistance 
tmiyer . . 

program. however.ls cur;. bei~g .. ssed f91'. t~~ 
e ofCa pus Min.stl'y~ 
..... ugh plans have been 
s~~ll~d ~~eto fear th~ sch~.ol 
n.tllY b~c0~e involved in aleghl 
quagm1r~t:' ...... . 
. . . . -,:::::·::'(:ht-. 
·· ~cc~tdlrtg mefub~1'~tf 
tM campus ministry staff, "The ~ifficulty lies in meeting the p·astoral needs of gay students within our community while trying to prevent things from escalating int() a political 

-Guy YJ.ranger 
.:&::::t::·~·:.: .. 
stricted to those who either have children or who are legal­ly married. 
This recommendation has faced some opposition. "I guess som~ ~eople feel that a family cons1stmg of same-sex domestic partners is unlawful and im­moral," said Matt Bajko, a re­porter for the Indiana Student. 
According to Wanser, a local chapter of the Ku Klux Klan vis­ited the I.U. campus earlier this year to protest change of ad­ministration policies. The fanatical group claimed the school was being run by "homosexual radicals." 
. Although this sort of opposi­tion may seem extreme, it rep­resents the adversity homosex­ual students face at schools across the country, despite ef­forts to open the doors of acceptance a little wider. 

HARASSMENT OF ·HOMOSEXUALS AT INDIANA 

UNIVERSITY-BLOOMINGTON 
July 1, 1992--June 30, 1993 
NUMBER OF CASES: 58 

.GENDER OF COMPLAINANT: ·.......··.Male:.39 {6?'%)q,(Female: 7 (12%) Unknown: 12 {21%) 
GENDE:R oF'o#ENDER(S): 
. Male: 25 {41%} 

JJ!!:t· G~~:~tn~ ~~~~o%)};1i', Botl1: 0 (0°/o} ..• ·· 
...·:·-t:===·-··· 
LOC CIDENT: Residence hall: 17(29%) Off~®mp~~l:)usiness: 3 (5%) Oth~~ Off·CaltJPUS: 1 (12%) Campus office: 9 (16%) On campus:19.(3?~o) Media: 1 {2%) Academic/Classroom: 2 (3%} 
NATtJf~oF INCIDENT: GraffitV defacing prop.: 8 (14%) Verbal/written threats: 18 (31%) Physical harassment: 6 (1 0%) Text/print: 8 (14%) Other: 0 (0%) Institutional practice: 4 (7%} "Homophobic" remarks: 5 (9%) Phone/computer har.; 8 (14o/o) Student behavior: 1 (2%) 
STATUS OF OFFENDER: Student: 10 (17%) Staff: 5 (9%) Faculty/At: 2{3%) Non-IU affiliated: 4 (7%) Unknown: 34 (59%} Institutional: 3 (5%) 



A fact of life at Berkeley 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI News Writer 
To the outside world Cal­Berkeley is radical and rebel­lious. Within the campus com­munity, however. issues that are controversial at most col­leges are facts of life. 
With three student groups officially funded by the University and one for faculty and staff, the gay community thrives at Cal-Berkeley. The membership of the largest group, "Multicultural, Bisexual, Lesbian and Gay Alliance," is second only to that of Berkeley's College Republicans. 
Along with the Law School's "Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual Caucus," a graduate group named "Lavender Grads," and the "Lesbian and Gay Staff for Empowerment and Enlightenment," the MBLGA has received both official University's recognition and University funding. 
"As a public institution, we do not discriminate or deter­mine what the purpose or focus of a student group is," said Karen Kenney, director of Student Activities and Services adding that the only time th~ University would deny a group recognition was "if there were health and safety issues related to the purpose of the student group." 
The existence of these groups is not an issue for most stu­dents, according to Katrina Lee, news editor of the campus newspaper. The presence of gay groups is, says Lee, "is just a fact of life for many students. 
It would be inflammatory to say that it's a controversy." 
Margaret Wu, treasurer of the gay caucus at Cal­Berkeley's Jaw school, echoed Lee's remarks. "I've never been confronted with any homophobic remarks," said Wu. "The administration has certainly been very supportive. There are lots of people who are out in the law school." Wu added that the law school cau­cus has about 50 official mem­bers. 
Gay issues are not controver­sial in the class room, either. David Lawson, the caucus's co­chairman, said, "Generally, it just doesn't come up as an issue at any time between stu­dents and faculty." 
Cal-Berkeley's gay groups host a range of social activities. The caucus at the Jaw school mainly sponsors civil rights lec­tures and the Ken Bryan Bowl­A-Thon, which raises grant money for AIDS-related work while the MBGLA sponsor~ dances and film festivals. 
Although Cal-Berkeley fosters a tolerant atmosphere, it is not perfect: the University has still not recognized domestic part­nership and some tension does exist on campus. "Official poli­cy is at this point we don't rec­ognize official partners," said Kenney. 
"There is certainly a degree of homophobia among faculty, staff and students," she said. "In my opinion, it parallels what you see in modern soci­ety. There are people that would not openly embrace the existence of these groups." 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, November 15, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor· in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Busin~ss Manag~r 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor ................ Mercdith McCullough Advc:nising Managc-r ..................... Annc: Hc:roman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson SySiems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcpr~m the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters •nd Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and co a..ll readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lc'([ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

EJimr-in-Chirf 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNicwpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Busine55 Officr 631-5313 Advrrtising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Sys<rms/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
ED MANIER HARD SLIDER 
Gender identity basis for development of sexual orientation 
Conservative James Wilson's set of erotic fantasies or a pre­sexuality could manage that. linked with reproductive behav­forcement. Behaviors of this discussion of gender (The moral ferred "look" in sexual part­Not even the retreat master ior in rats, have been greeted sort lead to gender typing by sense. 1993) deserves some ners. who tried to scare James Joyce with incredulity as explanations parents. peers, and the agent thought. "Nature has played a The single best predictor of straight would preach to a four of human preferences in erotic herself or himself. cruel trick on human kind. It adult homosexuality is a non­year old about gender confor­fantasies and sexual partners Is non-conforming gender has made males essential for conforming gender identity in mity. Or would he? [Byne and Parsons, Arch Gen identity in a human four year reproduction but next to use­early childhood. [For the phi­Psychiatry. 50 (1993) 228-391. old the crest of a slippery slope less for nurturance" (p. 145). losophy majors who've come There has been a flurry of re­It's as if someone proposed inevitably leading to adult ho­This, according to Wilson, goes here to study law or philosophy cent offers to explain four year pant-hooting in chimps as a mosexuality? It's just the single double for male pastoralists (OT let me point out that "... al­old options for gender identities prototype of human language. best predictor of adult male prophets?) vulnerable to neigh­ways and everywhere causes. . more than two standard devia­It's been tried; it failed. homosexuality(Green.R.. The bors rustling their livestock. . " cannot be substituted for "... tions from the behavioral aver­sissy-boy syndrome. Yale, 
In that ecological niche, hu­single best predictor of. .."). age. These suggest interesting On the other hand, human 1987). If your goal is to reduce man males "were more mili­Why would anyone reject the scenarios, but no such expla­four year olds don't compose the percentages (4 percent taristic, "more given to direct gender identity adopted by al­nation, certainly not any you've discourses on gender identity. male; 2 percent female) of expressions of aggression, and most all (say, more than 90 per­read about in the popular me­Sixty percent heritability could those with persistent adult ho­more inclined to respect central cent) of peers with similar dia, has survived critical peer be the sum of several paths mosexual orientation. however, authority." The women in these external genitalia? Surely you review. Genes? from genes to adult sexual ori­shed that pastoral gender iden­tribes find the men "never af­Only twin studies, based on a entation including, e.g., a dis­tity and get a real job teaching fectionate" and not involved in 'The single best pre-small (n=110), retrospective, position to depart strikingly preschool. But remember, be rearing children. dictor of adult self-selected sample. But the from sex typical behaviors sensitive or it will backfire. 
difference between monozy­when confronted with competi­
homosexuality is a non­

Contemporary American so­gotic (MZ) and dyzygotic (DZ) tive situations involving high (Ed Manier is a professor of ciety strongly echoes this pas­conforming gender iden­concordance with homosexual­risks of injury or significant de­philosophy. lie is spending the toral tradition. Boys are sub­ity in this sample is striking: 52 privation of parental rein-academic year at Harvard.) 
tity in early childhood.' 

stantially more competitive, percent for MZ and 22 percent participating from an early age for DZ, suggesting 60 percent 
in dominance hierarchies Ed Manier heritability [Bailey & Pillard, Wearing "Lou mask" against 
ranked by "toughness" and Arch. Gen. Psychiatry, 48 competitive success. Young jest. Just noticing that we don't (1991), 1089-96]. A figure al­women organize peer groups really live in a pastoral society most as high as the heritability BC would aid the homeless "by striving to see all inputs to might do it, or deciding that the of the most heritable aspect of 
Dear Editor: game. against Boston College,some common endeavor as rel­gender identity typical for those temperament in human infants In the past years Notre Dame all Notre Dame ticket-holdersatively equal, so that the al­of one's sex is personally unat­(MacArthur Longitudinal Twin students have buy the Lou Holtz Mask andlocation of rewards will also be tractive, or that those who Study showing "inhibited" tem­shown their school spirit and support for wear it at the end of the thirdroughly the same". Human model that identity aren't any perament nearly twice as the football team by purchasing period when the band plays the beings resist incarceration in fun. strongly influenced by genes as The Shirt, the proceeds of Lou cheer. Our support for Lou
simple minded categories. We any cognitive trait). insist on our differences. even if I took care of a small group of which went to help those in Holtz and the football team some of us are more inclined to rats (in a riboflavin deprivation Even if you agree with Bailey need. would be expressed. but more 
Last year the Lou Holtz Mask importantly, thousands of dol­respect central authority, or experiment) once. Those ani­and Pillard, the link between was made available to the mar­lars would directly contributevote with our peers. mals gave real meaning to the genes and adolescent sexual ket as a project to help the in helping the homeless. 
term "sex machine" until the orientation is not simple and Willy-nilly and usually by the vitamin deficiency kicked in. straightforward. Pelvic thrust­Madison Center for the The happiness we would 
Homeless. The price of the bring to the people who will
age of four. we take on a gen­Four year old human beings ing is no more determined by mask is only $2, $1.60 of which benefit from such an actionder identity, accepting, reject­have already learned many the sexual differentiation of any will be used to help the home­would be worth ten times theing or modifying the male-typi­things not dreamt of in rodent known part of the human brain less at the Madison Center. amount we paid for the mask.
cal or female-typical social philosophy. On the other hand, than finger pointing. 
Help them and buy the Louroles in our social and cultural no four year old consciously So far, studies of sexual di­Most of us already own The 

Shirt and those who don't will Holtz mask. 
environment. Gender identity plans and executes a decision morphisms in areas of the brain probably own it by the Florida NICK RlOS 
provides the basic framework concerning gender identity; (the preoptic nucleus of the 
State game. I would like to pro­Sophomorewithin which we later develop a nor, a fortiori. sexual orienta­anterior hypothalamus [Levay, pose that for the next week's Keenan Hallsexual orientation, a preferred tion. Only a veritable Mozart of Science, 253 (1991) 1034-37]) 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

CORN&U? WH/3RE 
NO, /IKJ, I GOT I CANT, MJW.

ARe YOU, MAN'! PROF/3550R
A CEl&BI?lTY I'M AUI?ITING

7H& ~/?F IS VeRY MllJ<&WCAN
{)tf~&NT. A CLASS AT

MUOIUP1 tu&OIEAT IN
50HAUL. ON UCLA T(}I)AY.

\ 7HI~aA95?
IXJWN WITH MIKE 

I
H&R/3 1 Mit-KeN. 
\ f ~ 
ON/...YIF
YOUNt8{) 
AN&/JG&. 
~ 

JJTraffic signals in New York are just rough guidelines." 
David Letterman 
----~---­

------------------~----~-----------------------------~------------------._-----.--~--~ 

Will it be a Fiesta? 
• A rematch looks likely and only one team appears to be upset about it­Nebraska. 

Story page 3 


No Doubt• • • No.I 

Notre Dame fullback Ray Zellars uses a Florida State facemask to break his fall in the first half of Saturday's 31-24 win over the Seminoles. 
Irish run over, hold on against Seminoles 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Call them lucky or skillful, tough or determined, because Notre Dame is all those things. Now you can also call them No.1. 
After a week of hype and eager antici­pation, the "Game of the Century" may have been just that, as Notre Dame pulled off the upset against previously unbeaten and top-ranked Florida State 31-24 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Defensive back Shawn Wooden batted down a Charlie Ward pass in the end­zone on the game's final play, sealing the win for the Irish and their first No. 1 ranking since 1990. 
''I've got no excuses," said Seminole coach Bobby Bowden. "Notre Dame won the game. They deserved to win, they did the things to us I was afraid they would do to us." 
All week long the Seminoles talked and boasted. But they game up short on the field. Meanwhile, the Irish offense methodically ran Florida State into a hole in the first half and then watched their defense stall the most explosive offensive 
See IRISH/page 2 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Irish defensive lineman Bryant Young converges on FSU quarterback Charlie Ward for one of his two sacks. 
1. Notre Da~eJ?2) 10-0-0 1550 2 2. Florida S,t~~--~L 9~l:-O 1467 1 
3. Nebraska''\:;_ >-· ..· 10-0-0 1390 4
·?'<······· .... ·... 

4. Miami..". , ·· · · :co 1351 3 5. ohio s~!e· -1 1273 5 6. Auburn ~o 1227 7 7. 1-1 1195 6 8. 1124 8 9. 1066 9 10. 1009 11 11. 934 12 12. 852 14 
13. 821 15 
14. 737 16 
15. 9 17 
16. 7 10 
17. 13 22 
18. 0 3-1 482 21 
19. Arizona 8-2-0 478 13 
20. Kansas State 7-2-1 324 24 
21. Indiana 7+0 268 19 
22. Southern Cal 7-4-0 203 
23. Virginia 7-3-0 144 18 
24. Clemson 7"3-0 110 

25. Virginia Tech 7-3-0 90 
Others: Michiga Louisville 71, North Carolina na State 32, Michigan 2i innati 12, Washington! ~tWashington State 4, Ball 1 
page 2 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, November 15, 1993 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Charlie Ward runs away from the Irish defense. His feared running skills weren't a factor Saturday. 
"We weren't playing against the NO mystique. We were playing against NO. They just use it to motivate themselves 

(.[ lf[i:.: 

and intimidate other teams." 
' :; o.d 
-Derrick Brooks FSU linebacker 

31 24 FSU learns about mystique 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
Knute Rockne would have been proud. 
In the week leading up to Sat­urday's matchup between the Seminoles and the Irish, the Florida State players down­played the mystique and tradi­tion at Notre Dame. even mock­ing Hockne himself. 
Their effort culminated at Friday's warmup at Notre Dame Stadium when the Semi­noles came out in Irish green hats with FSU written in gold on the front and a shamrock on the side. It was a clear mock­ery of the Notre Dame spirit but the Florida State players called it a salute to the magnitude of the game. 
Their exploits didn't go over well with some Irish players, who saw their antics as any­thing but a salute to both teams. 
"I saw what they were doing and I got a little ticked-off," said safety John Covington. "They came in here to our sta­dium, shooting their mouths ofT. They shouldn't do that. 
"But you can't talk the game. You have to play the game." 
The Irish did just that. 
"No doubt about the great spirit they have at Notre 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall The Seminoles scorned the Notre Dame mystique and the luck of the Irish. Maybe they're believers now. 
Dame," said Bowden. "I think it helps them. It doesn't hurt us, but it helps them. Their kids just played possessed." 
But still some of the Florida State players maintained that the Notre Dame mystique had nothing to do with the outcome. 
"We weren't playing against the Notre Dame mystique. We were playing against Notre Dame," said Derrick Brooks. "They just use it (mystique) to motivate themselves and intim­idate other teams." 
"Their fans got into it, but 
this was no different than play­ing anywhere else," said Charlie Ward. 
For Irish playBrs the outcome was special and hop!lfully en­lightening for their opponents. 
"Unless you're here and ex­perience what is going on here, you don't know what it is about," said Clint Johnson. 
"I have mwer had an experi­ence like this," said safety Jeff Burris. "They just don't know what Notre Dame was about. Aft.~r being here I hope they do. 

SEASON CUMULATIVE AVERAGE: 3.3033 

QUARTERBACKS McDougal steady again-not spectacular, but good enough to win the biggest game of his career 
RUNNING BACKS Becton's fifth straight 1 00-yard game ties all-time Notre Dame record 
RECEIVERS Dawson drops bring the mark down, but outstanding downfield blocking helped the Irish ground game ~ 
0-LINE Simply dominated FSU's D-line, powering the Irish running game, which proved to be the difference 
~ 

D-LINE Great pass rush against a great quarterback; Young and Flanigan seemed to be everywhere 
~ 

LINEBACKERS Considered a weak spot that FSU could exploit, Bereich, Goheen, & Co. exploited the Seminoles' running attack 
1!8 

SECONDARY Burris could have broken the game open with a pick or four, but overall play was solid against a great passing offense 
~ 

SPECIAL TEAMS Pendergast won the battle with Bentley and returns and coverage were solid; punting lapse at end of third quarter could have caused problems 
COACHING Holtz won another big one, using a power running game and controlling FSU's explosive offense 
FINAL SCORE Beating No. 1 is no easy chore, especially a team many consider one of the greatest ever, but Notre Dame did it-handily 
Win 
from page 1 
unit in college football. 
"Today we were the best football team in the stadium," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 
The Irish were clearly the best run­ning team, amassing 258 yards on the ground. Tailback Lee Becton accounted for the majority of those yards, finishing with 122 yards on 26 carries and a 26-yard touchdown in the second quarter. 
Notre Dame's rushing success can be accredited to their offensive line, who manhandled the vaunted Seminole defense, forging big holes for the Irish offense. 
"Notre Dame won the game today on execution," said Bowden, when askeq about Notre Dame's rushing success. "They simply executed better than we did." 
Despite their rushing success, Notre Dame wasn't able to put Florida State away until the final play. 
After Seminole wideout Kez McCorvey's 20-yard touchdown catch cut Notre Dame's lead to seven, the Irish offense was shut down and forced to give the ball back to Ward and the Florida State attack with :51 seconds left. 
A nine-yard run by McCorvey and two 18-yard receptions to the Seminole flanker put the ball at the Irish 14 yard line. Notre Dame defen­sive end Thomas Knight batted down a pass on the next play. Notre Dame then called a timeout with three sec­onds remaining to set their defense on the final play. 
After taking the snap from center, Ward rolled left and looked into a sea of Irish defenders flooding the end­zone. lie tried to squeeze a pass to reciever Warrick Dunn but the ball headed straight for Wooden. 
"When he scrambled to my side, I said over and over, 'just stay home,"' said Wooden. "We knew if everybody stayed in their zone and did their job it would be fine." 
The final play was just one of a series of big stops for the Irish defense. Ward connected on 31 of 50 passes for 297 yards, but the Seminole attack lacked balance. Florida State managed only 96 yards rushing. Sean Jackson, William Floyd and the rest of the Florida State run­ning backs had a dismal day, gaining only 58 total yards rushing. 

The versatile Ward gained only 38 yards on the ground. He was sacked twice, both by Bryant Young, and felt pressure for most of the game. 
"They did an excellent job of keep­ing Charlie in the pocket," said Bowden. "The defensive backs they have are excellent." 
The Irish defense looked vulnerable only once, on Florida State's opening drive. Starting from their own eleven, Ward completed four of five passes and ran twice for 34 yards. He then hit Knox at the end at the Notre Dame five, who beat Irish cornerback Greg Lane into the endzone. 
That was the lone bright spot for the Seminoles in the first half, as the Irish defense tightened. Kicker Scott Bentley, who was booed by the crowd for remarks he made against the Irish 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Jeff Burris celebrates the first of his two touchdown runs. 

Player of the Game 


JEFF BURRIS 
6'0" 194 lbs. Senior Safety • Burris continued his two­sided success. He led the Irish secondary from his safety slot, and as the third back in Notre Dame's goa­tine backfield he scored two touchdowns. 
earlier in the year, missed a 54-yard field goal and Ward missed on six straight passes at one point in the second quarter. 
Notre Dame started to exert their dominance at the line of scrimmage early on. After driving to the Seminole 32 on runs by McDougal and Becton, wideout Adrian Jarrell scored on a reverse to tie the score. 
"The reverse is something we thought could go, the way they pur­sue," said Holtz. "That was a big touchdown for us." 
Becton scored on Notre Dame's next possession, and Florida State returned the ball to the Irish when John Covington intercepted Ward's pass intended for Knox. It was the first interception Ward had thrown in 159 straight passes. 
The Irish took advantage of the turnover. After two runs by Becton, Kevin McDougal hit Mike Miller on a 15-yard slant. One play later Jeff Burris scored one of his two touch­downs on a 6-yard run. 
The Irish added a 47-yard field goal from Kevin Pendergast in the third quarter and Bentley answered with 14-yard kick of his own. 
Notre Dame pushed the lead to 34­17 on its next possession. A key reception by Lake Dawson for 14 yards, set up Burris' second score from the Seminole 11-yard line. 
----~----------~------~~~------~--------~------.-~-~~-------­
Monday, November 15, 1993 The Observer • 
FOOTBALL 1993 

page 3 
''A rematch would be a great ballgame. Ifwe want a shot at the "I think a rematch is what the public wants to ­national championship, we will have to bear whomever they see. They want to see a game like this at a want us to play. neutral site to see who is really the best team." 
" 
-Todd Norman 

-Derrick Brooks ND offensive lineman 
FSU linebacker 
31 24 


"Ga111e of Century II" appears likely JOCK STRIP 

Childhood
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sporrs Editor 

dreams come
Speculation began long before Shawn Wooden's last-second pass deflection juggled the polls. 
It began before Notre Dame and true Florida State even took the field for Saturday's titanic tussle. hi I d r en 
Would Notre Dame-Florida State played under become college football's version of Ali­the lights that
C 

Frazier? shined on Notre The Seminoles think it should. Dame Stadium, 
"There's no doubt about it," said throwing an imagi­Florida State wide receiver Matt Frier. nary football and "We played in the hardest place ever searching the side­
~ 

and we were one play away from win­t, lines for anything ning. If people want to see the best, give the players might us a chance." have forgotten. 
JASON KELLY Most people thought Saturday's game Scattered debris 
Associate Sporrs Editor 

was the chance for both teams to prove blew from the empty L---------' who belonged in the driver's seat for the seats across the field, which less than an national championship. hour earlier was drowned in a sea o 
Notre Dame is definitely behind the celebration. wheel, but Florida State is doing a lot of Irish fans spilled out of their seats after backseat driving. Shawn Wooden's last-second deflection 
"I think (a rematch) is what the public preserved Notre Dame's 31-24 win over wants to see," Seminole linebacker top-ranked Florida State. Derrick Brooks said. "They want to see Now only the children remained, cele­a game like this at a neutral site to see brating in the endzones where their 
who is really the best team." heroes turned Florida State's swagger to 
That neutral site would be the Fiesta a stagger. Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., where Notre There were many heroes Saturday. Dame won its most recent national title There was Adrian Jarrell scoring Notre 
in 1988. Dame's first touchdown on a 32-yard run, The Irish don't seem to mind the idea only the second touchdown of his career of a rematch. and his first since the game winner in a 
"It would be a great ball game," Irish 28-24 win over Michigan in 1990. offensive tackle Todd Norman said. "If There was Bryant Young chasing we want a shot at the national champi­speedy Seminole quarterback Charlie onship, we will have to play whoever Ward into some bad throws, and catching they want us to play." him for two sacks. 
Unbeaten Nebraska looms as the only There was the entire Irish offensive line 
bump on the road to a rematch. Ranked dominating Florida State's lighter line to second in the latest USA Today/CNN open holes for Lee Becton and Ray Coaches Poll, the Cornhuskers can make Zellars. the best case against it. There was even Kevin Pendergast, 
The Associated Press poll has Florida whose career-best 4 7 -yard field goal State at No. 2 and Nebraska at No. 3. proved to be important in the end. 
The most important poll is the Bowl But what was most important in the Coalition's, which is a combination of end wasn't heroes or hype. It was history. the other two. Florida State is also No. Ghosts of Knute Rockne and George 
2 in that poll. The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Gipp and the Four Horsemen haunt the 
Coalition guidelines state that, if possi­Seminole wide receiver Matt Frier wants a rematch. "If people want to see the best, give hallowed ground where the children ble, the top two teams in its poll must us a chance," he said after Saturday's loss to the Irish. played, dreaming of someday making meet in a post-season bowl game. their names a part of its glorious past. 
If Notre Dame and Florida State Saturday, but the Irish and the against a schedule only slightly less diffi­"There is no doubt about the great spir­remain in their current positions, the Seminoles control the Cornhuskers' des­cult than Notre Dame and Florida it here," Florida State coach Bobby Fiesta Bowl gets the prize. tiny: State-deserve the No. 2 spot until Bowden drawled. "It helps them. It 
Notre Dame must defeat Boston Nebraska will host the Orange Bowl someone proves differently on the field? doesn't hurt us because, in all honesty, College in next week's regular season on January 1, most likely against Miami The coaches said yes. The writers said we don't really know what it is." finale, and Florida State has to win next unless there are some serious changes no. They learned a little about it Saturday, 
week at home against N.C. State and at in the next two weeks. The Seminoles also said no. falling victim to another magic moment at Florida on November 27 for that sce­That raises a question of fairness, Notre Dame, which controls its own Notre Dame Stadium. 
nario to happen. something that has never been a big destiny as the No. 1 team, appears to be For the Irish there is a sense of vindica­Nebraska can shake things up with a part of college football's bowl system. content with the idea of a rematch. tion. Doubters have dogged them all sea­big win over arch-rival Oklahoma next Doesn't Nebraska-still unbeaten Nebraska probably isn't. son. There are no more doubts. Notre Dame is No.1. 'To be No. 1 in the country is the best feeling there is for a football player." Irish offensive guard Mark Zataveski said. "It's unbelievable." Believe it. 1 2 4 F 
All Yds Avg TO Long McCorvey 1 9 9.0 0 9 Notre Dame's ninth-and maybe its 0 10 Becton 26 4.7 1 Dunn 0 0
Florida State (9·1) 7 7 24 122 26 3 0.0 8 most improbable-national championship
Notre Dame (10-0) 7 14 3 7 31 Zellars 11 44 4.0 0 18 
Jarrell 1 32 32.0 1 32 Comp Att Yds TO INT Long is breathlessly close to becoming a reali­Burris 3 19 6.3 2 11 Ward 31 50 297 3 1 20 ty. OTR TEAM PLAY TIME McDougal 6 12 2.0 0 9 Jackson 1 2 10 0 0 10 FSU Knox 12 pass lrom Ward (Bentley kick) :09 Failla 1 10 10.0 0 10 McCorvey 0 0 0 0 0 Boston College and a possible Fiesta NO Jarrell 32 run (Pendergast kick) 4:30 Kinder 1 0 0.0 0 0 Bowl rematch with Florida State stand in 2 NO Becton 26 run (Pendergast kick)10:42 No Yds Avg TO Long the way. NO Burris 6 run (Pendergast kick) 7:48 Comp All Yds TO tNT Long McCorvey 11 138 12.7 1 20 
Whatever the outcome of the season's
3 NO Pendergast 47 FG 9:41 McDougal 9 18 108 0 0 24 Jackson 5 26 5.2 0 8 FSU Dunn 6 pass from Ward (Bentley kick) 4:45 Frier 4 46 11.5 0 15 final two games, Notre Dame football his­FSU Bentley 24 FG 11 :40 No Yds Avg TO Long Vanover 4 30 7.5 0 12 
tory is richer today than it was a week
NO Burris 11 run (Pendergast kick) 6:53 Becton 2 39 19.5 0 24 Dunn 3 18 6.0 8 FSU McCorvey 20 pass from Ward (Bentley kick) Miller 2 30 15.0 0 15 Knox 2 30 15.0 1 18 ago. 
2:26 C. Johnson 2 22 11.0 0 17 Floyd 2 9 4.5 0 5 Names like Lee Becton, Kevin Dawson 2 20 10.0 0 14 Ward 1 10 10.0 0 10 
McDougal, Jeff Burris and Bryant Young 
FSU NO Zellars -3 -3.0 0 -3 T A Tot TL Sac PBU FR are now etched into the school's past. First Downs 26 20 T A Tot TL Sac PBU FR Brooks 5 3 8 0 0 0 0 
Ushers hurried the kids out of the stadi­
by rushing 6 12 Lane 6 2 8 0 0 0 0 K. Alexander 4 4 8 2 0 0 0 by passing 17 7 Bereich 3 4 7 0 0 0 1 D. Alexander 1 7 8 1 0 0 0 um before the lights went off and dark­
by penalty 3 1 Burris 5 1 6 0 0 4 0 Nance 5 2 7 1 0 0 0 ness covered the field. The game was Total yardage 403 347 Goheen 4 2 6 0 0 0 0 Roberson 4 2 6 1 1 0 0 
over, but will never be forgotten. 
Offensive plays 80 67 Magee 3 3 6 0 0 0 0 Bush 3 3 6 0 0 0 0 Avg. yards per play 5.0 5.2 B. Taylor 3 2 5 0 0 0 0 Coes 2 3 5 0 0 0 0 "This was the biggest game I've ever 4 0 Abraham 2 3 0 0 0 0
Rushing yards 96 258 Flanigan 3 1 2 0 0 5 been involved in, and it would have been 
Rushing plays 27 49 Young 1 3 4 0 1 0 0 Sawyer 4 0 4 0 0 1 0 
even if we had lost," Zataveski said.
Passing yards 307 108 Covington 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 Horner 1 3 4 1 0 0 0 Passes completed 32 9 Davis 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 Sherman 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 "There are probably pro players who 18 2 0 0 Rebol 1 2 3 1 0 0 0
Passes attempted 53 Hamilton 1 3 2 0 would've given up their pro careers to
Passes intercepted 1 0 Gibson 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 Bergohan 0 1 0 0 0 0 Fumbles/Fumbles lost 1/1 0/0 Wooden 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 have been able to play here today." 
Penalties/Penalty yards 7/70 4/38 And there are also children who dream 3rd down conversions 5-14 4-13 Att Yds Avg TO Long 
percentage 35.7 30.8 Ward 11 38 3.5 0 19 of playing here someday. Saturday, it 4th down conversions 1-1 0-1 Floyd 5 31 6.2 0 18 was a place where childhood dreams percentage 100 0 Jackson 7 18 2.6 0 11 
came true. 
,.--~-----~-~-~--------~ -~ ---~ 
-
page 4 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, November 15, 1993 

I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 





Brian Hamilton stuffs a Seminole running back. The Irish held FSU to just 96 rushing yards Saturday. A disappointed Charlie Ward watches his team fall from the top spot in the rankings. 
----------------~·~~------~·----&~---~----­



ACC~NT 
Monday, November 15, 1993 page 11 
With its debut release, I Mother Earth digs deep into the well of originality 
MUSIC REVIEW 
Through swirling guitars, rhythmic hardcore beats, and intense innovation, the band I Mother Earth has arrived. 
Sporting a sound which CMJ described as one "an audience must surrender to," I Mother Earth combine their poetic, meandering lyrics with the raw vocal talents of singer Edwin to create a virtual battleground on their debut album, "Dig." 
"Our music comes from lis­tening to a lot of different sounds, learning from it and experimenting with it in our music," said drummer Christian Tanna. 
"To us. it seems very straight­forward, because everything stems from where your head's at and what you listen to," said Christian. "Our heads are into just jamming and all our influ­ences end up in a pile." 
Formed by Christian Tanna and his guitar-playing brother, Jagori, I Mother Earth added Edwin and bassist Bruce Gordon by September. 1990. 
"It was just a bunch of coin­cidences that led to the four of us being together, but it seems like it was almost all meant to happen," said Jag. 
I Mother Earth opened for a few thrash bands and then be­gan headlining at major clubs. Their experimental shows, which included poetry readings, live artists, percussionists and long exploratory jams, gained them much recognition, and led to their signing thirteen shows later. 
"We experiment and jam," said Christian of his band's live performances. "It's a challenge to keep it different and musi­cally intense every night. At our shows there's a lot to soak in; people tend to stop and think a little bit." 
"Dig's" most formidable strength is its unpredictability; a fuzzy hardcore jam will sud­denly give way to congas and bass, Edwin's subtle whispers may explode into a bellowing roar, and Christian can alter the entire mood of a song in one second with an immediate change in the drum formula. 
"Everything starts with a jam in our rehearsal," said Christian. "I'll ask Jag to play that again and I'll start jam­ming with it, we'll develop it, and then add lyrics from either some poems that I have laying around or we'll take the vibe and say what it represented." 
"The Mothers" opens "Dig" with a pleading cry to listen floating over a laid-back groove with psychedelic background vocals and effects. 
At just under three minutes, "The Mothers" is one of the few songs on the CD that is less than five minutes long, a tribute to I Mother Earth's originality. 
Many songs seem like they are just about to end when they will take a turn to the bizarre, surprising the listener with an­other example of the band's fascinating ingenuity. 
One of those lengthy exper­imental tunes is "Rain Will Fall," which begins in a manner very similar to Jane's Addiction's "Ain't No Right." 
Edwin's underwater vocals 
expand to the chorus's climax 
which leads into the amazing 
bridge: Latin rhythms and a 
bass-heavy groove abruptly changes the scenery from a mosh pit to a lambada contest. 

"So Gently We Go" has a re­lentlessly funky jazz tempo meshed with some acidic, slip­pery rhythm; it sounds like a combination between Sade's "Smooth Operator" and Bob Mould's "One Good Reason." 
Edwin's vocals shine as his versatility is expressed through an uncanny resemblance to those of early David Lee Roth. 
"Psychodramatic means to uncertain endsll'll scare you blind with my confidence/As cool as Jesus and his twelve best friends," read the lyrics to "So Gently We Go." 
A tale of complete self-satis­faction and haughty compla­cency, "So Gently We Go" is the most pleasing song on the disc, albeit not the most experimen­tal. 
Clever airport guitar riffs abound the roll call of surrealistic audible images in "Not Quite Sonic." 
Edwin's vocals build up to a peak in the chorus, in which he ironically describes the unim­portance of being real or of be­ing heard or of being under­stood. 
Palpable bass-picks and har­monious background vocals are the effects which trigger the song "Production" to the brink of insanity; with a harsh drum beat rooted in thrash-punk, only Edwin's angry vocals keep the listener from joining the music in the asylum. 
Sporadic taps of bass com­plement each other like the theme of some sort of Generation X conga line on "No One." Swirling guitar riffs and a 
• ROB ADAMS 

Floria Sigismondi 

I Mother Earth recently released their debut album "Dig." 
vast array of subtle drum ex-"We want people to listen a plosions give the song a very little closer, pay a little more at­moveable effect. tention, and dig a little deeper," 
"Basketball" contains music said Christian of the CO's title. that sounds as if it belongs in a The various influences of I jungle hunt horror movie; sin-Mother Earth and their propen­gle and slow guitar picks come sity to expand their boundaries together and then explode into even further make "Dig" one of a waterfall of melody which the most original rock albums switches again and spurts out of 1993. bits of fast and furious funk. 

Contest winners to disp{ay tlieir creative work§ 
By THOMAS KANE 
Accent writer 
You spend days, weeks, even months trying to create an entertaining, inspir­ing, important piece of work. You strug­gle over the choice of a word, or the insertion of a comma, wondering if, in the end, all of this hard work will even matter, because no one will ever read what you are writing. 
Then your work is chosen to be read in a creative writing contest, and all of that drudgery becomes a labor of love. 
This is the situation the ten winners of the second annual Student Fiction and Poetry Reading find themselves in, as their poems and short stories have been chosen from over 20 entrants as exam­ples of the best in undergraduate and graduate writing. 
Tonight's reading in the auditorium of the Hesburgh library will be the culmi­nation of this fall's contest. 
Professor Valerie Sayers of the Notre Dame creative writing program said she was pleased with the quality and diver­sity of the entries in this year's contest, which was open to undergraduates for the first time in history. 


"Many different voices were heard from," said Sayers. 
The reaction of the 10 winners -four undergraduates and six graduates -cho­sen by a panel of graduate students in the creative writing program to Monday night's reading was universal: excite­ment. 
"Wow, it definetly woke me up," said sophmore Doug Metz, when he learned that two of the four poems he had sub­mitted had been chosen for reading. 
Metz's poems came out of a manu­script he is compiling, entitled "Spontaneous Eruption," which Metz said accurately describes his writing style. 
"My poems have a habit of evolving after a moment of inspiration," said Metz, a communications and American studies double major. "They often start out as journal entries." 
Metz has future plans of publishing the manucript, which has been compiled over a year and a half, when he raises enough money. 
However, right now he writes for the fun of it, as a form of meditation and re­laxation. 
"Writing is a good way to get rid of stress in life," said Metz. 
Senior Lizabeth Lennon was also excited about the opportunity to read her work, which was written in a cre­ative writing class, in front of an audi­ence. 
Lennon's piece, entitled "Sewing Lessons," was inspired by her studying abroad in England, and is about an old homebound lady she met in London. 
Lennon has no schedule or method for her writing, but said that the creative writing classes she has taken at Notre 
Dame have been instrumental in her success. 
"Writing is something that I really like to do," said Lennon. "The classes give 
'writing is a good way to get rid of stress in life.' 
Doug Metz 

me time to write." 
Freshman Anne Marie De Luca is also happy about the unexpected chance to share her work. 
"''m very excited, and pretty amazed," said De Luca, who decided to submit some works in progress after hearing an announcement in her humanities semi­nar. 
De Luca, who has been writing since high school (where she also won a writ­ing contest), said her work is inspired by the works of Donald Barthelme and Jack Kerouac. 
Her poems, which are concerned with technique, contain shades of the poetic methods employed by those two authors. 
"[I like] playing around with tech­niques such as assonance," said De Luca. "A couple of my poems [contain elements] of metaphysics." 
For all the winning writers, and for those in the audience who practice the often lonely art of creative writing, the reading will be an inspiring event. 
"I'm mostly excited to see what others have written and get inspired," said De Luca. "I also hope to get feedback." 
Tonight's reading will take place at 
7:30 p.m in the lounge of the Hesburgh Libray. Admission is free and open to the public. 
~ ·o 

page 12 The Ob~erver • PRO FOOTBALL Monday, November 15, 1993 
Miami beats Philly, Shula becomes NFI?s winningest coach 
By BARRY WILNER Pederson, a former practice 38, Cincinnati 3; and the New Seahawks 20, Browns 5 in on nine tackles and had one 
I Associated Press squad player, replaced Scott York Giants 20, Washington 6. At Seattle, Kosar's replace­of six sacks by the Falcons (3­
I 
Mitchell-who had taken over Dolphins 19, Eagles 14 ment, Todd Philcox, had a mis­6). Deion Sanders had two
I 
Give him great quarterbacks 

for injured Dan Marino-when At Philadelphia, the Eagles erable day for the Browns (5-4). interceptions.
I 
and he wins. Give him Doug Mitchell separated his shoulder lost their fifth in a row after He threw two interceptions and Norm Johnson, the only NFL
I 
I Pederson and he still wins. early in the second half. A for­four straight wins. James lost two fumbles in the first kicker without a miss this sea­I Don Shula became the win­mer backup in the World Lofton dropped a pass while half, then was sacked late in son, made a pair of field goals,
I ningest coach in NFL history League, Pederson had two fum­and Bobby IIebert threw a 31­
wide open at the Dolphins' 5 the game. 
I Sunday, passing George Halas bles, one costing Miami an with 2:25 left. Ken O'Brien had Eric Metcalf lost two fumbles, yard scoring pass to Andre Ri­r when he guided the Miami Dol­
r extra point. But, just like Matte two TO passes to Calvin both recovered by Patrick son. Erric Pegram rushed for phins over the Philadelphia
I and all the backup QBs for Williams. Hunter. Eugene Robinson had 128 yards and Hison had five 
Eagles 19-14. Shula's 325th 

Shula, he didn't hurt the Dol­But the Eagles couldn't steal both interceptions off Philcox catches for 120 yards. 
victory came on the strength of phins.

I 
the day from Shula. and recovered a fumble as the Vikings 26, Broncos 3 
a big-play defense-Jeff Cross "Doug did a heck of a job," "Over the years, there have Seahawks (5-5) had five fumble At Denver, where the Broncos

had three of four sacks-and 

Shula said. "He kept his cool been a lot of great victories and recoveries and the two inter­(5-4) hardly ever lose, Sean
I Pete Stoyanovich's second-half and he made the plays. He a lot of great memories," he ceptions. Chris Warren rushed Salisbury threw for 366 yardsfield goals of 46 and 45 yards. hadn't played any kind of real 
said. "This one will be special, for 112 yards. and two touchdowns and Fuad It also came with a backup to football to speak of, but he got maybe because of the way we Chiefs 31, Raiders 20 Reveiz made four field goals for the backup at quarterback, a the job done." 
won." The Chiefs (7-2} did not miss Minnesota (5-4). Reveiz's 43­guy whose name Shula barely The Dolphins (7 -2) carried Cowboys 20, Cardinals 15 Joe Montana because Dave yarder won it with 2:49 re­could recall last month. 
Shula, 63, off on their shoul­The host Cowboys (7 -2) won Krieg had a big day. Krieg maining. Cris Carter caught six"This one will be special be­ders, but let him stay dry this their seventh straight, this time passed for 178 yards and three passes for 134 yards and a TD. 
cause of the way we won it," 
time. After he tied Halas two 

with a new hero-Bernie touchdowns and the 17th quar­John Elway threw for 290Shula said. "They hung so weeks ago, he received a dunk­Kosar. Six days after he was cut terback in NFL history to pass yards, completing 30 of 40
l 
tough to win a game that meant 
ing. by Cleveland, Kosar hit 13 of 21 for 30,000 yards. passes -14 in a row at one 
so much to me, especially win­"I had that for No. 324," he 

passes for 199 yards and a 1-Marcus Allen, who spent 11 point -and had a pair of first­ning with a third-string quar­said. "At my age, I can't take half touchdown passes. 
yard touchdown to Jay No­seasons with the Raiders afterterback again. It reminds you of too many ice cold showers." 
vacek. That score was set up four at Southern California, Minnesota lineman Tim Irwin
the Matte days, when we were In other games Sunday, it was when Emmitt Smith broke made his return to the LA Coli­blocked an extra point and a looking for someone and we 

Dallas 20, Phoenix 15; Seatile three tackles and turned a 5-seum a success. He had 85 short field goal, the seventh and found Tom." 20, Cleveland 5; Kansas City 31, yard pass into an 86-yard com­yards on 17 carries. eighth blocks of his career. 
Those days, in 1965, came the Los Angeles Raiders 20; 

pletion. Falcons 13, Rams 0 Jets 31, Colts 17 when Tom Matte switched from Atlanta 13, the Los Angeles Jason Garrett started at quar­The worst defense in the NFL At Indianapolis, the Jets putrunning back to quarterback Rams 0; Minnesota 26, Denver terback for the injured Troy this year overwhelmed the together a three-game winning with the Baltimore Colts for the 23; the New York Jets 31, Aikman, but Kosar came in struggling Rams (2-7), the first streak for the first time underplayoffs after John Unitas and 
Indianapolis 17; San Francisco with 4:49 left in the first period. time Los Angeles has been shut coach Bruce Coslet. BoomerGary Cuozzo were injured. 45, Tampa Bay 21; Green Bay Phoenix (3-7} rallied from a out since 1987. Esiason threw for 256 yards
Shula was the coach. 
19, New Orleans 17; Houston 17-0 hole at one point. Linebacker Jessie Tuggle was and two touchdowns. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 
287-4082 
Resumes Lisa 273-6332 
Jean, Jean the Typing Machine • fast and friendly! Call 1 8858 & leave msg. 
Freshmen: producers of our class magazine. Experience '97, need your help. We're looking for funny anecdotes that have happened dur· ing your stay on campus or myths you heard about NO before you arrived. Your ideas would be appre· ciated. Please send/deliver submis­sions to 252 Knott or 212 Lewis by Wed., Nov. 17. Questions, call x4951 or x4135. 
..................TND***•••••••••• 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
Dance Club 
Routine will be taught: 
NOV TUES16 & Thurs18 
@Am 219 Rockne 
Tryouts: 
SUN, NOV 21 7·10pm 
@JACC PIT 
WANT TO KNOW... 
the philosophy and method of Dr. 
Martin Luther King? 
how unarmed civilians overthrew 
communism in Eastern Europe in 
1989? 
how to bring about social change? 
Dart into 
NONVIOLENT SOCIAL CHANGE liPS 466 or 566 with Professor David Cortright 
Call Peace Studies, 6970, for autho­rization number. 
Word Processing, term papers, etc. 259-7402 
Anyone need a ride to the DC area for Thanksgiving? I've got a spot. Call Steph at 273-6548.

ILOST & FOUND I 
BIKE FOUND BY NO SECURITY 
21·SPEED FUJI MONTERREY 
RECOVERED ON NOV. 7 
@4:30pm 
·LOST: Camera. 2 lenses and flash in brown leather bag from home side· line after USC game Call Mike x1187. 
Found: Copy card with lots of copies left on it, at the Hesburgh 
Library. Call4·4987to claim. 
LOST: Bright purple Columbia 
"Bugaboo" ski jacket with green lin­
ing. If found, please call Joe 
@1613. 
LOST-2 Macintosh Disks 
possibly in Lib. on 11n 
tan, 1 with BACK UP FILES on it, 
the other with MARK 3 
VERY IMPORTANT!!! 
Please call 273-6242 if found 

WANTED 
Wanted: 1 (or 2) Stds. to share 6 
bedrm house on NO Ave across 
from NO apts 2nd sem. 3 stds 
there already; rent & util 200/mth. 
288·5282 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
Eam $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go 
FREEl Best trips & prices! 
Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, 
Panama City! Great Resume expe­
rience! 1-800-678-63861 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE! CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31 
HELP WANTED. $800 weekly pos­sible working from home. 37 differ­ent oppurtunities. For details call: (201) 239·2522 Ext. 1487 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com· panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206­634-0468 ext. C5584 
BEACH or SKI Group Promoter. Small or larger groups. Your's FREE, discounted or CASH. Call CMI 1-800-423-5264 PAPA JOHN'S is still hiring 
drivers and inside personnel 
Flexible hours and 50% off 
PAPA JOHN'S Pizza! 
Call271-11n or stop by 
54533 Terrace Lane 
EOE 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!! 
Individuals and Student 
Organizations wanted to promote 
the Hottest Spring Break 
Destinations, call the nation's 
leader. Inter-Campus Programs 
1·800-327·6013 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­end 616-699·7137 
6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS 
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. 
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL 
NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 
Lodging · Riverfront -Private. 
257-9101. 
ROOMMATE NEEDED Spr. Sem. 
Trtle Crk Twnhs 
271-1399 
Lodging • Riverfront · Private 
257-9101 
2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES 
NEAR NO 
AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR 
232-2595 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail· able for parents on weekends. 219­291·2899. 


FOR SALE 
1 brown leather chair, $60; 1 brown upholstered chair, $30. Call 1-5435. 
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291 Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/ Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386 
2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston 
12-14 $65ea. 508·n1-6996 
Dependable 1986 Plymouth Duster Holly 271·8940 Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP 27S scientific calculator, with all documentation. Program formulas and love life. HP DeskJet printer (for IBM). Print in the privacy of your own room. Call Rolando at631·4541. 

YAMAHA PSR·12 KEYBOARD 
LIKE NEW, NEW $300, MAKE 
OFFER. MAGNA TONE 75 WATT 
GUITAR/KEYBOARD AMP WITH 
VIBRATO & REVERB PEDALS 
$200 CALL JASON, @237·9702 
1984 RED HONDA CIVIC, 5 
SPEED, 2 DOOR HATCH BACK. 
VERY DEPENDABLE. $2150/0BO 
X3419 
BAHAMA • CRUISE 
5 Days 4 niles $288/couple 
Underbooked 10-9 Mon·Fri 
10-5 Sat 407·648-4480 ext. 607 
Airline Ticket round trip from South Bend to Seattle Jan. 6th· Jan 15th $230.00 call Judy 631-4811 before 5pmM-F 
ONE-WAY TICKET ATLANTA DEC. 18 CALL IWA 634·2898 

TICKETS 
MY FRIEND ... 
Please sell me your BC GA's ... 
x1653 
FOR SALE: FSU & BC TIXS. 
235-3394 
$$Need BOSTON COLL GA's$$ 
Dan x1694 
NEEDED: BC TICKETS!! PLEASE CALL WENDY X3427 
Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at 273·1757 
BC Stud. Tckl. 
Best Offer Alice4-0505 
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221· 6183. 
For Sale: GA's for all games. 2n· 1659. 
Need BC Tickets! x2846 I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 
TOP $$$$ for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's 
Call Pat @ 273-5094 
1 45 yard line FSU GA for sale. 
Call George 634-1748 
NEED 4 BC GAS CALL PAT X1689 
I NEED BCTIX 
X 1665 

12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM 
BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND 
STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME 
-Bryan x1190 

$$$$$$$$$$ 
Desparately need 
4 BC GA's! Will 
pay BIG $$'sll 
Call Sara NOW 
@ 273-5126. 

$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need FSU, BC Ga's or Stud Tix call Sean @ 234-2793 
Help! I need 2 BC GAs or male stu­
dent tickets. If selling any of these, 
please call Bridget X4015. 
hey i need BC GAs and Stud. bryan x1686 
Need one BOSTON COLLEGE STUDENT TICKET. Call Kerri at x2635 to hear my pathetic, helpless voice, and the whiny, squeaky way I answer the phone with, "HIIIIIII." 
BC student Ticket for sale, Call 273­4822. Selling soon. 
I HAVE BILLY JOEL TICKETS 2 TIX FOR BILLY JOEL CONCERT FRIDAY, NOV. 19 IN CHICAGO CALL NORM AT x1179 ASAP!!! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
DESPERATELY NEED 
GA's or STUD TIX 
FSU & BC 

CALL SEAN @ 234-2793 
1 BC GA FOR SALE Call 634·2907 with offer, name & number. 

PERSONAL 
WANTED· rider to D.C. area for T·break to help$ gas & tolls. Leave Wed. noon, rtn. Sun. Call Jenny at 289·9633 Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulllime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire· place in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369· 2597 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 

Adoption: the placement of your child may be the most precious gift you could make. NO alum wants to be mom through your gift. Professional couple, country home, with lots of love and faith. Strictly legal. Call Tricia and Jim 1·800-820·1139. 
Quality Copies, Quickly THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631·COPY 

WORLD VISION THE YOUNG MESSIAH TOUR Christmas concert featuring Sandi Patti, Carman,TwilaParis, Steve Green, and eight more artists. Concert includes a new production of Handel's classic Messiah. Thursday, Dec. 9, round trip tickets and concert ticket only $27.50, trav­el on United Limo, 683-3308. 
SMC·ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON AND ROME. TRAVEL TO W.EUROPE.COURSESIN PHOTO, HIST, LIT,SOC, BIO. MEETING LIBRARY AUD. LOUNGE NOV. 17, 6:30PM. FOR­MER PARTICIPANTS, PIZZA, TEACHERS. INFO CALL PROF. BLACK 284-4460(W) 272-3726 (H) 
Thanks for helping us raise over 
$1300 for La Casa de Amistad. 

Special congratulations to Monise Seward of B.P. for winning the FSU tickets. 
Watch for other upcoming events 
sponsored by the Sophomore 
Class. 
Are you capable of more demand­ing roles than that tree you played in first grade? AUDITION FOR DIRECTING FINALS TONIGHT! 8pm Wash. Hall 
Hello Karin (again) 

Monday, November 15, 1993 
The Ol:>sei"Ver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
-



~fe would like to congratulate two
w 

~otre Dame alumni who have excelled while at the University of Dayton School of Law: 



• Chief Justice, Moot Court  A 1991 graduate ofNotre Dame  
Board  (B.S., Electrical Engineering),  
• Associate Editor, Law  Jim will be joining the Chicago  
Review  law firm ofWillian, Brinks, Olds,  
• Recipient of Law Student  Hofer, Gilson and Lione upon his  
Service Scholarship  graduationfrom the University  
• President of First-Year  ofDayton in May 1994.  
Class  



RoB PHITCIIAnn 
• Staff Member, Law Review  A 1992 graduate ofNotre Dame  
• Ranked #1 in a class of  (B.S., Mechanical Engineering), Rob  
152 students  clerkedfor the Pittsburgh law firm of  
• Vice President, Law &  Papernick & Gefsky in the summer  
Technology Student  following his first year oflaw school.  
Association  Following his graduation from the  
• Recipient of L.M. Berry  University ofDayton in 1995, Rob  
(full-tuition) Scholarship  expects to practice patent law in  
his hometown ofPittsburgh.  

The University of Dayton School of Law actively recruits Notre Dame students and graduates for admission into our law program. Ifyou are interested in the study of law and have a demonstrated record of achievement, we invite you to consider the University of Dayton School of Law. Applications for admission may be obtained by contacting the School of Law Office of Admission at (513) 229-3555. 
[ '\I\ EH~ITl \\II ~UI OOL I'IWFILE: Founded in 1850 by the Society ofMary, the University ofDayton is Ohio s large.st private university and the nations eighth largest Catholic university. The School ofLaw is centrally located on the Universitys 80 acre campus, and is only a short drive from area courts and law firms. Graduates ofthe University ofDayton School ofLaw include over 2,200 men and women who are practicing law throughout the country. 
• THE UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON SCHOOL OF LAW • 
page 14 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL Monday, November 15, 1993 
-



With Irish win, other unheatens on outside looking in 
Associated Press 
Hey folks, don't forget about us. 
That must be how Nebraska, Auburn and West Virginia felt Sunday. Despite perfect records, all three need lots of help to have any shot at winning the national championship. 
While talk centers around a possible New Year's Day rematch between No. 1 Notre Dame and No. 2 Florida State-if both win the rest of their regular-season games-the Cornhuskers, Tigers and Mountaineers must be envious. All three could finish with spotless marks and not even get considered for the top spot. 
Nebraska earned its third straight trip to the Orange Bowl with a 49-17 victory over Iowa State. The Big Eight champs moved from No. 4 to No. 3 in the poll, leapfrogging once-beaten Miami, which took Rutgers 31-17. But if the Corn­huskers (10-0, with No. 15 Oklahoma to go) don't move up at least one more spot, they won't be guaranteed a shot at the national title. 
"I really have tried not to look too far down the way," coach Tom Osborne said. "The polls, to me, have almost become a humorous thing." 
All No. 6 Auburn can do is defeat No. 11 Alabama next week, then go home and hope things fall its way. Auburn, which beat Georgia 42-28 on Saturday, moved to 10-0 for the first time since 1957, when the Tigers won the national title even though they were on pro­bation. They're on probation again this year. 

"If we beat Alabama, we're the best team in the SEC, and maybe the best team in the nation," Tigers defensive end Randy Hart said. ''I'm foaming at the mouth for 'Barna." 
Ninth-ranked West Virginia won its ninth straight game, a 49-7 romp over Temple. The Mountaineers play Miami for the Big East lead on Saturday, then finish at Boston College. 
"We've been focused and injury free all year," receiver Ed Hill said. "And the guys are just real hungry right now." 
That hunger might not be satisfied if the Mountaineers-like the Cornhuskers and Tigers-don't get some help. 
Notre Dame's 31-24 victory over Florida State, which caused the teams to flip-11op positions atop the poll. might have shut everyone else out from title consideration_ 
Elsewhere Saturday, it was No. 5 Ohio State over No. 21 Indiana 23-17; Florida over South Carolina 37-26; Arizona State over No. 16 UCLA 9-3; No. 10 Texas A&M over Louisville 42-7; No. 11 Alabama over Mississippi State 36-25; No. 19 Arizona losing to California 24­20; No. 13 North Carolina over Tulane 42-10; No. 14 Penn State over Illinois 28-14; Oklahoma over Oklahoma State 31-0; No. 24 Clemson over No. 23 Virginia 23-14; No. 18 Colorado over Kansas 38-14; No. 17 Boston College over Pittsburgh 33-0; and No. 20 Kansas State over Missouri 31-21. 
No. 3 Nebraska 49, Iowa Stata 17 
The hosts made sure they weren't upset for a second straight season by the Cyclones (3-7, 2-5). Tommie Frazier ran for 125 yards and three touchdowns and Calvin Jones ran for 208 yards and a score. 
No.4 Miami 31, Rutgers 17 
At Miami, the Hurricanes (8-1, 6-0) struggled with the Scarlet Knights (4-6, 1-5). But Miami extended its home win­ning streak to 56 games, one shy of Alabama's NCAA record, with Ryan Collins throwing for 291 yards and two touchdowns. 
No. 5 Ohio State 23, No. 21 Indiana 17 
At home, the Buckeyes moved to the brink of their first Rose Bowl appear­ance since 1984. The Buckeyes (9-0-1, 6-0-1 Big Ten) clinched a share of their first Big Ten title since 1986 and will go to Pasadena, Calif., with a tie or win at Michigan next Saturday. Raymont Harris rushed for 162 for Ohio State, which held Indiana (7-3, 4-3) to only 31 yards rushing. 
No. 6 Auburn 42, Georgia 28 
In their first season under coach Terry Bowden, the Tigers secured the West Division title in the SEC, even though they won't be bowl-bound. Auburn pro­duced 23 plays of 10 yards or more. James Bostic scored on runs of 41, 3 and 26 yards, finishing with 183 yards on 19 carries. 
Host Georgia's Eric Zeier completed 34 of 53 passes for 426 yards and three scores. 
No.8 Florida 37, South Carolina 26 
At Columbia, S.C., the Gators over­came a 17-0 deficit to move closer to the SEC East Division title and a berth oppo­site Alabama in the conference champi­onship game. Errict Hhett, the SEC's leading rusher, gained 120 yards for a career total 4,001, 73 more than Emmitt Smith's school record. 
No.9 West Virginia 49, Temple 7 
At Philadelphia, Darren Studstill threw for 27 4 yards and three touchdowns fill­ing in for regular quarterback .Jake Kelchner, out with a hamstring injury. Temple (1-9) stayed on pace to set a Division I-A record for most points allowed in a season; the Owls have given up 499 points. The record is 544 by Texas-El Paso in 1973. 
No. 11 Texas A&M 42, Louisville 7 
Corey Pullig threw three touchdown passes and Aaron Glenn returned an interception 40 yards for a TD as the Aggies (8-1) rolled to a 42-7 victory. A&M has won 18 straight games at home and is 49-3-1 since 1985. 
Also, Trent Dilfer threw four touch­down passes and set the NCAA record for most consecutive passes without an interception (238) in Fresno State's 45­21 victory over Hawaii. 
Dayton's 56-game unbeaten streak came to an end as the Division I-AA Flyers lost at Alabama-Birmingham 27­19. 
Tony Vinson set a Division 1-AA single­game rushing record with 364 yards on 33 carries as Towson State routed Bucknell 49-21. 




For long dlst&noe collect calls. Vs. AT&T operator dlaled 3 min. Interstate e&ll. 



p 
Monday, November 15, 1993 
The Observer • HOCKEY page 15 
Hockey continues to improve on weekend trip to Ohio 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Writer 
On most teams, the right mix of experience and talent leads to success. The Notre Dame hockey team is beginning to find that proper combination. They have begun to find suc­cess as well. 
This weekend, the Irish trav­eled to Ohio for two CCHA games. On Friday night, Notre Dame defeated Ohio State in overtime by a 3-2 score. They then traveled to Cincinnati to face Miami (Oh). Although the Irish fell 3-1, the team turned in another solid performance. Their record now stands at 3-3­1 overall. 2-3-1 in conference. 
"Our goal is to be in position to win games. We were both nights and we were able to cap­italize on Friday. Overall, I'm pleased (with the weekend)," said coach Ric Schafer. 
On Friday night, the Irish turned in another strong de­fensive performance and scored when they had to in the over­time victory. 
It looked as if ND was going to drop the opening game of the weekend until sophomore Jamie Ling set up senior cap­tain Matt Osiecki for the tying goal with two minutes remain­ing. 
The goal sparked the team in the overtime, as they carried played with their typical ag­gressive style. Tim Harberts scored the game winner with 
1:50 to go in the overtime pe­riod which the Irish dominated. 
The Irish started the game much they way they finished, outskating the Buckeyes. Tak­ing advantage of an Ohio State penalty, freshman Ben Nelsen beat goalie Tom Askey from the right side at the 16:03 mark of the first period. Ling and Osiecki assisted on the goal. 
Ohio State benefited from four Irish penalties to outshoot the ND 19-14 in the second 
SPRING BREAK '94 





:~~~~~~~~aysO ~~:~;%~~~~~ ~" 
£r)r:p!  v COREY  FOR OR  MORE BOB  INFORMATION CONTACT: AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOUR  
1-800-875-4525  
TOUf~S  

PARTIES EVER NITE!! OPEN BAR 10:30 PM-3:00AM 
• 

Stepan Center 
ND/SMC/HCC Students $10 General $15 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

special guest Sun 60 Crazy Stuff and More!! ! 
tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
period. They capitalized on one penalty for a goal, as Sean Sutton beat Greg Louder in close to tie the game. 
The score remained tied until the 13:50 mark of the third period, when Steve Richards got in close to put Ohio State ahead. 
Notre Dame, as usual, had plenty of chances to tie the game in the 3rd, but failed to do so until less than two min­utes remained. At the 18:02 point, Ling won the faceoff. He slid the puck back to Osiecki, who drilled a blue-line slap­shot past Askey to tie the game. Osiecki's first goal of the season could not have come at a better time. 
"Coming back like that real­ly showed the character of team. The team knew we were going to win after that goal. The confidence was really high," said Nelsen. 
Freshman Tim Harberts, like Osiecki, picked a good time to score his first goal, getting his name in the scoring column with 1:50 left in overtime. Osiecki's assist was his second of the night, and gave the Irish their third one-goal win of the season. 
On Saturday night, the Irish once again finished the game strong, as they scored late to make it interesting. Jamie Morshead's goal cut Miami's lead to one. Notre Dame then pulled the goalie and got some solid chances to tie the game, but an empty-net goal ended hopes of a second straight come-back win. 
Like Friday's game, the Irish started strong, as they forced Miami into some early mis­takes, but could not jump out into the lead. Miami goalie Richard Shulmistra stopped all 13 shots he faced in the first period. 
Notre Dame could not main­tain the momentum, and the Redskins capitalized with two second-period goals. 


The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Sophomore Jeremy Coe and the Irish hockey team split their weekend games against CCHA opponents. 
. Enrico Blasi put the Redski?s 3-1 margin. m the lead at 6:22 on an assist "The bounces weren't there," by Bob Marshall. Less than two according to Nelsen. "It easily minutes later, winger Jason could have gone the other Mallon put Miami ahead f~r way." good, as he beat Louder for his Schafer was also not all that third goal of the season. disappointed with his team's 
The Irish did not really effort. "We played well, we just thr~aten u~til late in th~ .3rd failed to score," said Sc~Iafer. penod. With 1:06 remammg, Underclassmen contmued to Morshead s~ored, assi.ste~ by lead the team in scoring. !hey the duo of Lmg and Oswcki, to have scored 25 of the team s 34 cut the Redskin lead to one. points this season. They obvi-But it wasn't enough. ously have the talent and are 
Center Blasi tallied an starting to gain the experience empty-net goal with 10 seconds necessary for success. "The remaining to provide the final freshmen, especially, are ad­

Happy2Jst Aim! 
Love, 
Mom & Dad 
.. 



~ \..\"e Broc,tl. 23 
~ Nov. 151h <'~"'~.... 
PITTSBURGH STEELERS VS. BUFFALO BILLS 

Free Prizes & Munchies! 
n




BigScreen rv. ­
NS::: 
WC" 

justing," noted Nelsen. "At first, we we're just trying to get the feel. Now, we can only im­prove." 
The experience coming into the season was concentrated in two players, seniors Osiecki and Louder. Both had played solid­ly in the past, but recently, have really elevated their play. 
Osiecki had a hand in every Irish goal this weekend. Com­bining this with his consis­tently-superb defense has made him a complete player. He can now be looked upon to provide some scoring punch, as well as leadership qualities. 
Louder has played brilliantly as of late. If you disregard the Michigan slaughter, his goals­against average would be among the league leaders. Even with the Wolverine game, it is still a more than re­spectable 3.2. His experience and talent have been shown of­ten, especially on breakaways. His patient style resulted in at least four saves on easy scoring bids this weekend. 
With two games against powerhouse Lake Superior State this weekend, Notre Dame's progress will be tested. However, Schafer is happy with the way the season is shaping up. 
''I'm pleased with what we are " Schafer said. 
~---­

Club 



Texas A&M football pleads innocent to NCAA sanctions 
page 16 
• Swimmers struggle against Florida State 
By KELLY CORNELlS 
Spons Writer 
Unlike the Notre Dame foot­ball team this weekend, the Irish swim teams could not overpower Florida State. How­
ever, despite the loss, both teams showed improvement in their indi­vidual times. 
Several Notre Dame women swam 


personal best Michelle Lower times, in­cluding junior Amy Bethem, who placed third in the 200 breaststroke, and Michelle Lower, who finished third in the 500 free. Lower improved her time in that event by over four seconds, clocking in at 5:13.88. 
Junior Jenni Dahl placed first in the 200 free, with a time of 1:54.82, two seconds ahead of the rest of the pack. In addi-
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Texas A&M officials spent Sunday morning with the NCAA, explaining what they knew about football players getting paid for work that wasn't done, and when they knew it. 
The meeting with the com­mittee on infractions lasted 4 1/2 hours, shorter than most enforcement proceedings. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
"Certainly, we expected to finish the season on a different note than we did," Petrucelli said. "My experience in the NCAA tournament is that you have to lose before you win. The Jack of experience hurt us early in the game." 
With the season now over on a disappointing note and with high expectations left unful­filled, the squad must move on by taking pride in the many feats it did accomplish while coping with the achievements which it never had the oppor­tunity to attain. 
"It hasn't hit me yet," said Guerrero. "I still think we have practice (today). It's really, re­ally upsetting." 
Costa Rica $255* Quito $269* Casablanca $375* Nairobi $763* Bangkok $495* 
'Aufl!res "'• ...ch w"'flrom Ch•coso based on o IOUndtnp purchas< RestrictiOOS opply, t.xes ore not Included ond fores ore subject to chonge. Coli for other worldwide des!lnotions. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd fiCXJ( 
Chicago, 1160610 
31~951-0585 
Call for a FREE copy of Student Travels magazine 
• 
tion, Dahl anchored the 400 freestyle relay which finished first. Freshman Erin Brooks continued to dominate in the 200 backstroke, winning that event in 2:06.28. Jesslyn Peter­son also swam successfully, capturing both the 100 free and the 200 individual medley. 
The Seminole women coun­tered the Irish attack by win­ning the 400 medley relay, and conquering both diving events. They also finished first and sec­ond in several of the events, which helped them rack up points. The final score was close, 137-106 in favor ofFSU. 
"We underestimated their abilities coming in," stated ju­nior Lorrei Horenkamp. "They had quite a few foreign girls who participate on their Olympic teams, so considering how much we get to practice, I thought we did a good job com­peting with them." 
The men also lost a close meet, 132.5-98.5. The Irish 
"It was a very good, fair hearing," Texas A&M interim chancellor E. Dean Gage said. 
Cash payoffs to athletes, even when disguised in phony employment scams, are con­sidered major violations and could result in the fourth foot­ball penalty in the checkered NCAA history of the Aggies, ranked No. 10 in The Associ­ated Press poll. 
In a 1,227-page response filed prior to the meeting, how­ever, Texas A&M said it is in­nocent of violations and should not be held accountable for the nine players involved. 
"We are very appreciative that the NCAA committee 

Train Your Brain 
LSAT, MCAT, GMAT& GRE. 
to the score you want. tl-on-1 tutoring. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
\ 
Monday, November 15, 1993 

For more information 



KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question

call (219) 272·4135 
worked with us to be able to be heard at this November hear­ing," said Gage. "We believe the committee was very fair and that they gave us an oppor­tunity to present our case. 
"At this point, it would be improper for us to make any further comment." 
All other A&M officials, in­cluding football coach R.C. Slocum, declined comment. NCAA officials never comment on pending cases. David Berst, assistant executive director for enforcement, said the infrac­tions committee could issue its decision within four to five weeks. 
The main issue is institu-
OHN DENSMORE, DRUMMER FOR THE DOORS LIVE IN CONCERT! 
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7 p.m. 
$12 Reserved Seating Price includes admission to an infor­mal book signing reception for his book 
"Riding on the Storm: The Doors, The Sixties, & Now" 
Tickets available at Marris Civic (219) 235-9190 and 1-800-537-6415. 
tiona! control. Texas A&M has argued it should not be held ac­countable for the violations of boosters and players who acted on their own while hiding their activities from school officials. 
"I think we presented what the issues were. We had com­mon agreement on those," Gage said. 
Included in the Texas A&M delegation were athletic direc­tor Wally Groff, former athletic director John David Crow, fac­ulty representative Tom Adair, and Slocum. 
Enforcement hearings fre­quently take a full day or more. "There were essentially two allegations," said Michael 
Congratulations 



Greg & Dana 
on your engagement! 
With Love, Michele, Eileen, }en, Sharon, and juliet 
'• 

i . '" 
fore, but that doesn't mean we did a bad job. 
"Some of our lead swimmers did an outstanding job, and all I see is steady improvement." 
Hopefully both teams will continue moving in the right di­rection as the season continues. 
Glazier, a former NCAA en­forcement representative hired by Texas A&M. "We knew we would finish early." 
In its official response, which was made available to reporters for $209.40, the school said it found that be­tween January 1990 and Au­gust 1992, the nine athletes earned a total of $27,800. Of that, $17,855 was unearned, the report said. 
"Individual student-athletes learned through personal ex­perience that they could abuse a job opportunity," the report said. "With few exceptions, the student-athletes kept the secret to themselves." 

swam well, but only placed first in two events, excluding diving. Those first-place finishers were Dave Nathe in the 50 free, and Ry Beville in the 200 fly. 
However, although the Notre Dame men improved their times considerably, they were not quite fast enough to catch the Seminoles. 
"When you look at the times from week to week, they get progressively faster," said coach Tim Welsh. "To Florida State's credit they improved a great deal from the week be­
Monday, November 15, 1993 The Observer • YOLLEYBALL page 17 
1 
'




Irish volleyball cruises past LaSalle and Pittsburgh l 
j 
every option. was dealt a severe blow as 
Peters, as she has been all senior middle blocker Julie season, was the focus, leading Harris was lost because of a the team with 15 kills on 29 broken finger, but freshman attempts and only two errors. middle blocker Laura However, she had a strong sup­Reckmeyer stepped in without a porting cast, as junior outside pause and proceeded to hit for hitter Nicole Coates supplied eight kills and no errors, career eight kills, while Stark showed highs. that she is recovering well from The Irish will have another her injury by notching eight of week off to get healthy before her own. the MCC tournament, beginning 
What was perhaps most im­next Saturday. Notre Dame will pressive about the Irish win open against the winner of the was the quality depth the team Xavier-Evansville match and showed, even under adverse are heavy favorites to capture circumstances. Notre Dame their third straight title. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Senior Molly Stark recovered from an ankle injury to pace the Irish in their sweep of LaSalle and Pittsburgh this weekend. 
See yourself with 
Hairstyle Changes ...
cru 

Completely Risk Free! 
In as little as 10 minutes, you'll receive a video tape 
featuring YOU with 12 hairstyle changes of your choice 
from a portfolio of over 400 styles ... all for $20.


f1tl 
Visit us at 
272--0312

The Castle Call today for appointment 
[A] November 19 & 20 Only minutes from campus 
Film Mogul, Scholar on two continents, and she's now just 21 
Happy Birthday, 
Erin 
Love, 

Mom, Dad, Colleen, Brendan 
International Study Programs Presents 


JERUSALEM PROGRAM LECTURE SERIES ALL PRESENTATIONS WILL BE HELD IN ROOM 202 DEBARTOLO 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1993 6:30 PM RABBI MICHAEL SIGNER THEOLOGY "THE JEWISH PEOPLE AND THE LAND OF ISRAEL" 
TUESDAY 1 NOVEMBER 30, 1993 7:00 PM FATHER DAVID BURRELL, C.S.C. PHILOSOPHY/THEOLOGY "JERUSALEM: AMONG THREE WORLDS -­JEWS, CHRISTIANS AND MUSLIMS" 
PLEASE NOTE TIME CHANGES FOR THESE LECTURES 
.. 

LAST CALL 
Registration Deadline -November 19 FOR 48 HOURS OF SEEING, HEARING AND LIVING THE LIFE OF THE INNER CITY 

Pick up Registration Form and Learning Agreement from Center for Social Concerns 
"You can't really understand It from the outside." 
Steve Krueger '94 
"...The Plunge helps you associate faces with homelessness and urban problems." 
Diane Ragitz '94 
"Prior to the Plunge, poverty was something I read about and I was aware of its significance as a national dilemma, but I did not really know what it was or how it felt to be poor. The difference between then and now is that I can connect poverty and other social problems with the people they touch." 
David Lucke '89 
"' The Urban Plunge is an experiential learning program of the Center for Social Concerns. It is a 48-hour immersion in inner-city life during winter break, preceded by readings and a workshop on justice issues, followed by discussions with faculty. In 1993, 368 students took part in the Plunge at 79 sites in 53 cities. Participation in an Urban Plunge earns 1 academic credit. 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assiscanr Spores &liror 
The No. 18 Notre Dame volleyball team showed why it is the class of the Mideast region this weekend, complet­ing its sweep of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference with a 15-6, 15-5, 15-4 victory over LaSalle, and then pounding Big East powerhouse Pittsburgh 15­2, 15-1, 15-8. 
Since their difficult trip to Arizona three weeks ago, in which Notre Dame dropped two of three, the Irish have responded in dominating fash­ion, dropping only one game while winning their next six matches. 
Having secured the number one seed for the MCC confer­ence tournament, the Irish looked to perpetuate their unbeaten conference streak when travelling to LaSalle last Friday night and found little opposition from an Explorer squad that has yet to take a conference game all season. 
Notre Dame was never chal­lenged in the match, using vari­ous different player combina­tions leading to even distribu­tion among the Irish attack. 
Christy Peters led the offense with nine kills despite playing only two games in the match. Freshman middle blocker Jen Briggs also had her most productive match of the season, hitting for seven kills and a .417 percentage in relief of senior Molly Stark, who played sparingly because she is still 

recovering from an ankle injury. 
The Irish finished their regu­lar season conference record at 5-0, continuing Notre Dame's unbeaten steak against the MCC to 24 wins, spanning the entire three year period that Debbie Brown has been at the Irish helm. 
Notre Dame continued its winning ways by blasting Pitt Sunday afternoon, cruising to an easy victory that saw the Irish hit for their best percent­age of the year at .447. 
The Panthers, considered a strong challenge to Notre Dame's No. 1 regional ranking, proved to be no match for the overpowering Irish hitters, as the Notre Dame attack was again spread around to include 
r page 18 The Observer • CROSS COUNTRY Monday, November 15, 1993 
Irish cross country teams earn spots in NCAA meet 
Women qualify for first-ever NCAA Championship 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
Spons W rit~r 
In a season filled with unex­pected turns, 

the women's cross country team pulled together on Saturday to become the first Notre D a m e women's 


team ever to Sarah Riley qualify for the NCAA Cross Country Championships. The young team overcame setbacks in the beginning of the year to reach their ultimate goal of clinching an automatic NCAA bid by finishing second in the Hegional District IV Meet in Bloomington, ln. Juniors Sarah Hiley and Kristi Kramer, who were the only runners who had experience in the district meet, led the Irish in the muddy and slippery con­ditions. The 17th-ranked Irish fin­ished with 78 points on Satur­day, with No. 3 Michigan cap­turing the title with 40 points. Wisconsin came in third with 123 points. Riley came finished first for the Irish, coming in fourth overall with a time of 18:10.4. "I thought she ran super," said Irish coach Tim Connelly. "I knew for a long time she was a great athlete. The three kids that beat her can all run in the top 15 (at the NCAA's) and I think she can be right there with them." "My goal was to be in the top five so I was pretty happy with that," said Riley. Kramer placed eighth in 
18:30.7 and freshman Emily Hood finished ninth at 18:33.3. Junior Maureen Kelly finished 26th and sophomore Amy Siegel came in 40th. The Irish's finish is more amazing consid­ering the fact that junior Emily Husted, who is one of the Irish's top runners, was forced to drop back in the pack as a result of an asthma attack. 
"We were pretty relaxed go­ing into the meet. We were try­ing to be very focused." said Kramer. "We were pretty con­fident but we couldn't rest on anything we did in the past. We had no cushion." 
The team waited anxiously at the finish line to see if they ac­complished what no other women's cross country team has done at Notre Dame. 
"When we finished no one really knew if we made it. Wis­consin was really close to us then," Kramer said. 
"I was ecstatic. It's some­thing we worked really hard for all year and last year we just missed qualifying. We had a lot of setbacks all season because of everything we've been through." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse will meet Tuesday at 9:45 p.m. at Loftus. Call Emily at 4-2856 or Michelle a.t 4-2894 with ques­tions . 
. Anyone interested in trying out for the ND/SMC Ski Team should contact Dave Berey at 237-0659. The RecSports Office Is offering campus squash, table tennis, and CoRee wallyball. The deadline for this is November 18th. 
Five runners for the Irish were gone at the start of the season. Three underclassmen decided not to return, while two of the top runners were out with injuries. Becky Alfieri never fully recovered to be able to compete this season, where­as teammate Siegel eventually ran again. 
Despite these drawbacks, the team came together and ac­complished what they set out to do at the start of the year, run at the NCAA's. 
"That's been our goal all year," said Connelly. "We had some problems in the begin­ning of the year with injuries and sickness. They kept their focus and knew they had to perform well." The NCAA's will be held next Monday at Lehigh University in Pennsylvania. 
"We must go in and run re­laxed and stay confident and not get overwhelmed," said Connelly. "Our goal is to finish in the top ten. Right now we know we're in the top 22 teams in the country." 



Men dominate Districts, place five in top 20 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame football team wasn't the only Irish team to lay stake to a No. 1 ranking this Saturday afternoon. 
Like their gridiron counter­parts, the Notre Dame men's cross country team came out on top this weekend, finishing first overall at the NCAA District IV Championships in Bloomington, In. 
The seventh-ranked Irish captured the team title with an overall score of 55 points. The Irish's closest competitor was 25th-ranked Miami of Ohio, who finished with a total of 84 points. 
No. 9 Michigan finished with 85 points, good enough for the third and final automatic bid for the NCAA Championships on Friday, November 22. 
The Irish placed five runners in the top 20 in the race, solidi­fying their claim as the team with the greatest depth in the district. The team was led once again by senior captain Mike McWilliams, who finished third overall with a time of 32:09.3. 
Junior Nate Ruder and sopho­more Derek Seiling came in an extremely close ninth and tenth, with Ruder running a 32:46.9, and Seiling coming in at 32:47.2. Juniors J.R. Meloro and John Cowan rounded off the scoring for the Irish by coming in 16th and 17th. 
Meloro ran a 33:04.0, and Cowan finished half a second later at 33:04.5. Freshman Matt Althoff finished 32nd at 33:33, and sophomore Joe Dun­lop came in 37th with a time of 33:43. 
McWilliams finished behind only Michigan freshman phe­nom Kevin Sullivan (31:55.6) and Iowa senior Kevin Herd (31:58.2). By coming in first for the Irish on Saturday, the three time All-American has been the team's top finisher in four of the five meets in which he has competed. This consistent leadership combined with a strong, closely-knit supporting cast has spelled success for the Irish all year, and Saturday was no different. 
The fact that the next four runners after McWilliams fin­ished in the top 20 in two sepa­rate, extremely tight groupings exemplifies the team-oriented philosophy of the Irish, while at the same time showcasing their tremendous ability. 
Coach Joe Piane, who often comes across like Lou Holtz in his understated evaluations, was pleased at the team's suc­cess this weekend. 
"The guys went out and ran where they were supposed to be at," Piane said. "The last few races, they've went out a little pedestrian. We talked about getting out a little more aggressively and we did." 
Miami may have run a ter­rific race, but the Irish clearly were the dominant team on Saturday, and .Junior Nate Ruder thinks he knows why. "The team seems really close all of the sudden," noted Huder. "We all get along well, and this relaxed environment allows us all to contribute to the team." 
The Irish will be looking to improve on last year's sixth­place finish at the NCAA's when they travel to Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, site of this year's Cham· pionships. 






SAINT MARY•S 
ALL-SCHOOL OPEN FORUM 
MONDAY, NOVSMBSR IS 8:00PM-10PM, CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
JOIN SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS & FACULTY FOR A PRESENTATION ON THE USE OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE AND QUESTIONS & COMMENTS ABOUT: SAINT MARY'S CHRISTIAN SERVICE CENTER, KEENAN REVIEW, THE OBSERVER, DEPARTMENTAL COMPREHENSIVE REQUIREMENTS, THE SESQUICENTENNIAL YEAR, AND MUCHMORE. SPONSORED BY SA INT MARY·s BOARD OF GOUERNANCE 


Monday, November 15, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 19 SPELUNKER 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

111E DPrY 5/\'JfD, 1\ 
6REA'TFUL CRow 0 .TLlMPW or; OOIZ HERO AND ENTO'/W ONE Bib C:,ROUP HUG.. ntE END. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'tll-\l\IS 1\\E. l'l<\ SIJP\lQ'SE\l Tel WR\1£ TI-II>..TS THE. 
~\GN~Hl.l~ A PAP8<. TI-\1\T PRESENTS PROBLEM. I Bo\1-l SlDES OF f>..N \s<5UE. CM{T TI-IIN\<. 1\ND T\-\EN DHmt>s ONE ot i\N.YIHING 
OF 11\E ARG\.Ji'IIE.N.TS. TO ARGUE. 
I 
\-'* 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
'Wt'R~ Nuof8~R (}n:! 

'BVT WE'RE. ~TilL 
NurnERO IJNo.1 WE 
i::)u, Now 1 f\IWE. lHE NvO\EE~ OtJt! 

~"''~f 
/ "-· r-" 

ACROSS 27 Br1stle· Comb form
1 Sunday 1n le 
28 K1nd of code or 

pare 
colony

9 Herbert Bayard 
31 Slangy

--.US 
contractions

JOUrnaliSt 
33 F1rst U.N 

14 Captivated 
Secretary 15 Force of 1588 General 17 F1x up 34 Where Travis was bes1eged
18 Legume-fam1ly plant 35 ----noth1ng effort
19 S1C1I1an seaport 
37 Thrust

20 Sh1p's boat 
38 Vale between 

21 ·The Sultan of 
Ossa and 

Sulu" playwnght 
Olympus 22 Uncanny 
43 Wealth 24 Romance lang 44 Not up 25 Ornamental 46 Talked band vainglonously 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Coming tonight! 
Big Head Todd 
and the Monsters 
with Special Guest Sun 60 Stepan, 8pm 
48 Curative quantity 49 Actor Robert from Toronto 50 Roman1zed Kubnck film 53 In an angry way 55 Watchman 58 Old World falcons 59 Mobcap 60 Forever, once 
61 One who runs a smear campaign 
62 Snaky characters 63 Acumen 
DOWN 1 Layer of skin 2" -You," Beatles song 3 Parsonage 4 Shepherd­

12 Cigar variety 30 People with 47 U S. athlete: identical given 1888-1953prophet 13 Pedagogy 
appellations 

50 Shiner
5-Sad, 16 Workshops 
32 Corresponding

Yugoslav city 51 Ruminates
20 Nuclear particle 
36 Pioneered 

52 Anatomical
6 Stretched to see 
23 Hugues Capel 

39 Extracts forcibly passageways
7 Adventuress of a was one 

40 Contrary 54 One of the 
sort 
25 Social visit, at 

female? Haliaeetus genus 
a Nigerian city 

sea 41 Henry-, last 56 Augury 9Wise 26 "Thanks -1" emperor of China 
57 "Roberta" 42 Girdle composer 45 Checks 59 Former U.S. terr. 
flza:1:tD 
BILL WATTERSON 
IHt•:\s HARD TO BELIEVE.. 

DAVE KELLETT 


DINING HALL 


• 


Wed., Oct. 17 Cushing, $2 7pm, 1 0:30pm 
Thurs., Oct. 18 101 DeBartolo 7:30pm 
$10 Students; $15 General w1hl ((J) § 1hl((J) ~ JJJFJK ? 



SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, November 15, 1993 
Irish women shocked by George Mason 
• 
f 
I t 
~ ~ 
[ 
f 
I I 
f 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY in the rebound of a header from team­Asis1anr Spons Edi10r mate Jenn Gross which had originally been deflected by Irish goalkeeper Jen 
Tears filled the eyes of Notre Dame's Henola. women soccer players after their magi­Notre Dame junior Jodi Hartwig tied it cal season of unprecedented success up at 24:16 when she received a cross­came to an abrupt and stunning close. ing pass from sophomore Rosella 
The No. 3 Irish were defeated 2-1 Guerrero and tapped it into an open net. Saturday afternoon by 10th-ranked Patriot keeper Skye Eddy had lunged out George Mason in the first round of the of the goal in an attempt to intercept the NCAA tournament in what was perhaps pass. the most monumental upset in women's Eddy, who is the leading goalkeeper in collegiate soccer this year. the Central Region, proved to be the 
"I think 'shocked' is a good word," difference in the game. Her aggressive Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli said in style of play worked to George Mason's describing his reaction to the loss. "It's benefit as she broke up many Irish scor­the most disappointing loss I've been ing opportunities by batting away sever­involved with in my entire career." al Notre Dame crossing passes. 
"I'm just kind of in shock right now," "She won the game for them," Renola said Notre Dame tri-captain Stephanie said, "but she just as easily could have Porter. "It's like a dream almost, like it lost the game for them. She overcom­didn't really happen. It's just so hard to mitted a lot." believe that we lost, and that we lost to Hartwig's goal was the only time the that team." Irish capitalized on Eddy's mistakes. 
The heavily-favored Irish entered the The Patriots tallied again just over live tournament with a 19-2 record and a six minutes after Hartwig evened the score. game winning streak. Although George Gross, who was named the Colonial Ath­Mason was very strong for a fourth­letic Association Rookie of the Year, seeded team, it had struggled this sea­headed the game-winning goal past son against teams which the Irish Renola and into the corner of the net to defeated handily. give George Mason a 2-1 lead. 
Inexperience in tournament play "Their attack was so haphazard that proved to be a significant factor in the we didn't know how to defend it," squad's performance early in the con­Renola said. test. Both Patriot goals came within the The Irish dominated the end of the first 30 minutes of the match. first half and the entire second half, but 
"We were tentative early in the game," were unable to score. Petrucelli said. "After the first 30 min­"It was one of those days when the ball utes we had the game under control and just wouldn't go in the net," said Porter. over the next 60 minutes dominated the "It's unfortunate that our season had game. We just didn't score." to end this way," she added, "because 
Junior Tammy Pearman gave the it's not indicative of the season as a 
The Observer/T. J. Harris
Patriots a 1-0 advantage only live min­whole." 

Senior Alison Lester finished her career on Saturday as the Notre Dame all-time leader 
utes into the contest when she knocked 

see SOCCER/ page 16 in goals, assists and points. 
•

,.. 

Men fall 
to Badgers in N CAN.s 
By MIKE NORBUT penalty kick past Badger goalie noted Launder. "They did a Spons Writer Tim Deck to give the Irish a 1-0 great job of getting him the ball J
advantage. in the second half, and he can 
Despite an early goal and the This was the only scoring do so many things with it." motivation of entering a game Notre Dame could produce all Gentile achieved his first ca­against an evenly-matched game, however, as Wisconsin reer two-goal game when he team as an underdog, the No. was able to control the ball tallied the final goal of the con­20 Notre Dame men's soccer throughout most of the game, test with 27:57 left to play to team still fell to No. 13 Wiscon­keeping the Irish out of their give Wisconsin a 3-1 lead. sin by a 3-1 count in a NCAA familiar pressure style of play. Hansen and junior Jeff Gold as­first round The Badgers answered the sisted on the play. match yester­Irish 23:14 into the first half, "They did what they needed day. when sophomore Mike Gentile to do to exploit opportunities," 
"I thought converted on a penalty kick. said Notre Dame head coach we played The midfielder's shot, which Mike Berticelli following the very well, one rolled past the outstretched game. of our best arms of Notre Dame goalie Bert The Badgers recorded nine games of the Bader, tied the match at 1-1. shots and six corner kicks to 
' ' year." said The two teams played the only six and three for Notre remaining 20 minutes of the Dame. Bader had six saves for
Badger head Mike Palmer 
coach Jim half in a scoreless deadlock, the Irish in a losing cause, Launder. leaving the halftime score tied while Deck tallied five key "We made our own luck. It at one . saves for Wisconsin. puts you in a good position and Though Wisconsin kept the "Deck was the big difference we intend to keep doing that." ball in their possession for the in the game," continued Berti­
The loss ended not only the majority of the second half. celli. Irish's season, but also their bid they could not notch the game­The Irish finished the season at a national championship. winner until the 61:00 mark. at 15-6 and tied the team's best This was Notre Dame's first ap­Midfielder Shea Huston hit a finish in history. Senior captain pearance in the tournament pass deep into Notre Dame's Mike Palmer, a South Bend na­since 1988, when they lost to end, where sophomore play­tive and three-year starter, Southern Methodist in the first maker Lars Hansen was there played his final game in a Notre round 2-0. to collect it and shoot it past Dame uniform yesterday. 
The Irish were able to take an Bader. The goal gave the Bad­early lead over the Badgers at gers a 2-1 lead, one that they With the victory, the Badgers the 7:31 mark in the first half would never relinquish. improved their record to 14-3-4 when sophomore Bill Lanza Launder was quick to praise and will move on to the second streaked by the Wisconsin de­Hansen and his ability to dic­round, where they will face the 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek fense and was taken down in­tate the course of the game. winner of tomorrow's matchup Sophomore Bill Lanza scored the Irish's lone goal in their 3-1 loss to side the penalty box. The for­"Once we started finding between Indiana and Memphis Wisconsin in the first round of the NCAA's yesterday. ward blasted the ensuing Lars we began feeding off that," State. 
Inside SPORTS 


M 
NCAA bound 

Volleyball Cruises Irish Hockey Wins 
Mike McWilliams leads 
Matt Osieki and the Irish 

Freshman Jennifer 
. 
the men's cross country 

~-beat Ohio State 3-2 in
Briggs and the Irish vol-
team in Districts, as the
... #" 
overtime on a weekend

leyball team win two 
men and women qualify 
trip to Ohio.

more matches on an East
-for the NCAA's 

~) see page 15 
'~~ .•. Coast swing . 
see page 18 
see page 17 
.&.~·L. 
• 







