·.II
' . 

The Observer
voL. xxv.·No. 89 , WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7,1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Clinton says new bill will test GOP 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The neither side is publicly relenting jobs bill that's deadlocked in the in the stiffest battle yet over Senate will be revised to test Clinton's economic agenda. whether Republicans who Citing waste, Republicans blocked it are "committed to want the measure slashed al­putting the American people most in half and offset by other back to work or just playing spending cuts. Democrats say politics," President Clinton said the measure, which would Tuesday. create 200,000 jobs this year 
The Republicans, however, alone, will help keep the econ­deny Clinton's accusation that omy from flopping back into their delaying tactics against recession. the $16.3 billion measure In an interview with The As­amounted to renewed gridlock. sociated Press, Senate Majority 
"We're not stopping the gov­Leader George Mitchell, D­ernment, we're stopping the Maine, said Democrats might be Democrats' deficit spending and willing to reduce and delay saving the taxpayers a bundle," some of the package's spending. said Senate Minority Leader Such a tactic could get Bob Dole, R-Kan. Democrats enough GOP support 
The delay left the bill's fate -to approve the measure, he and each side's tactics -said. uncertain for now. 
Democrats and Republicans "We're in consultations right alike say a compromise will be now to develop and present an attempted between now and alternative package that would April 20, when the next votes hopefully pick off needed on the measure are planned. votes," he said. 
Strike one Congress will be on Easter re­Clinton said he would work on cess until April19. a new proposal addressing
Katie Warzon, a Pasquerilla West freshman and member of the Arnold Air Society, takes time out to bowl 
But the exchange between "some of the legitimate ex­
with clients of the Logan Center. Members of the Arnold Air Society bowl with the Logan Center every 
Clinton and Dole showed that press~d objections" to the bill. 
Friday afternoon. 
Permission given to establish women's center 
By JASON WILLIAMS doubts it will ever happen," sider this aspect and others in a Assistant News Editor said O'Donnell. "We're going to random needs assessment form prove her wrong." mailing which will be dis­
Another hurdle has been The WRC has said a women's tributed this summer. cleared in the ongoing attempt resource center at Notre Dame The WRC has received sup­to establish a women's resource would facilitate coordination port for their efforts in estab­center at Notre Dame, among the several women's lishing a center from the according Patty O'Donnell, groups already existing on Women's Faculty-Student chair of the Women's Resource campus, serve as a hub for dis­Committee, the Graduate Stu­issues artf
Committee (WRC). tributing literature and operate dent Union and nearly 1,000 
. a long wayJn

Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­as a central source to answer Notre Dame students and fac­saying. w'bat kind of people we
dent of Student Affairs, gave questions offered by students. ulty by means of a petition drive want to be." 
permission to the WRC, the Sa.int Mary's has had a earlier this semester. 
The new and different Presi­
group spear-heading the effort women's resource center for Until Student Affairs accepted dent of the United States hasto establish a women's center, nearly a decade. their proposal to submit needs the power to ~boose Supremeto distribute needs assessment O'Donnell said a women's re­assessment forms to students court, federal and lower col.lrt
forms into the Notre Dame source center would also bene­on Monday, the Administration ·· judges. The~e judg~s answercommunity. fit faculty members by helping has neglected to recognize the fundamental ques~ions, defin­Two hundred students from professors eliminate gender support on campus for a ing the kind of society we livt;each class and two hundred discrimination in the classroom. women's center, O'Donnell said. 
in, Alderman explained. . ·· law, MBA and graduate stu­"We've found through other The needs assessment forms Yet people can make a differ~
dents will be randomly selected empirical literature that teach­ask a short series of questions 
enc¢. by speaking, out and
to complete the needs assess­ing from a feminist perspective regarding the importance of 
make the. Bill of Rightswork
ment forms via campus mail. can be a problem in that it's not women's issues and sexual re­them, she said. ..··· · The WRC will send out the always well received by all stu­lationships as they relate to 
. example, when a six

forms beginning April 12 to dents," she said. "If faculty students on a scale from one 
. IHtiiULil. 
baby in IUinois was.co:;,

both male and female students. choose to teach this way, they (not important) to five (very ID.lnm~e Wlth no · · · · "Patty O'Hara said we could need to go about it without important). 
parents

do our needs assessment forms, alienating the white male stu­Once the results of the forms 
· life supp9~t~ .·. ·•

but we can't make it sound like dent, and a women's resource are tabulated, O'Donnell said 
.... ¢ot:(.ting
its a certainty that a center is center would be able to help the WRC will then present a going to be established on them accomplish this." 
see WRC I page 4 

campus because she highly Faculty will be asked to con-
Pressing academic issues addressed in Colloquy 2000 
Editor's Note: The following is at Notre Dame. the third in a four-part series O'Meara, chair of the Com­examining the initial committee mittee on Academic Life, men­reports of Colloquy for the year tioned that the "primary objec­2000. tive of the committee is to rec­
ognize the top priorities con­By KAREN DuBAY ceptually and in resources for 
c 
pursue the highest caliber indi­tance of excellent teaching," the viduals that will participate in a report said. dynamic Catholic university. It is understood that the cur­
The majority of the faculty riculum, courses, appropriate should be Catholic. learning resources, and total 
• The Provost's Office should campus intellectual environ­support and encourage student ment are all essential factors in 
News Writer the University for the next 10 somewhere in the middle of the initiatives to improve campus the improvement of Notre years." report." intellectual life. Dame. 
The Committee on Academic The report begins with a de­The Committee on Academic • In the hiring process, the Some of recommendations Life for the Colloquy for the tailed guide to Notre Dame's Life has recognized the in­University should seek out ded­included in the report are the Year 2000 has recently made academic mission as a Catholic creased interest in the issue of icated Catholics, females and following: proposals encouraging further University. Catholic character. minorities. • A committee on Architec­educational initiatives and rein­"Our mission is, therefore, at The faculty of Notre Dame • Strategies should be devel­ture and the Fine and Perform­forcement of the Catholic char­once intellectual and Catholic," has been dramatically changing oped by the University to attract ing Arts should be formed to acter of the university, accord­he said. O'Meara added that he and the Committee on Aca­female chairholders. give these disciplines direction. 
ing to Timothy O'Meara, Provost "believes that the issue of the demic Life has provided many The report continues by de­• Undergraduate enrollment 
of the University Catholic character of the Uni­proposals to improve the cur­veloping the importance of the must be maintained at 7,625 Composed of faculty and stu­versity must be discussed. In rent situation. The report high­undergraduate and graduate during the 1990s. dents of varying backgrounds the PACE reports created in the lights the following primary education. • It is the goal of the Univer­1980s, there was not much recommendations for the fac­"The first priority in creating sity to provide 100 percent of
and interests, the committee 
has attempted to address the mention of the Catholic charac­ulty: an excellent learning environ­
see COLLOQUY I page 4 

most pressing academic issues ter issue. It was included • Departments are to actively ment is to elevate the impor­

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Lighten up folks, baseball is just a game 
A show of hands please: How many of you watched "Field of Dreams" last night? 
Okay, next question: How many of you wanted to throw up at the end? 


Thought so. Paul Pearson 
Let me make this News Writer point clear: I have no problem with baseball ________ as a sport. It's a great game, one that I've paid attention to since early childhood. 
But baseball is not a game. It's a national obsession. 
If you think people treat Notre Dame football as a religion, you should see some of the people huddled around the tube or freezing their bunions off in Wrigley Field the other day to see the Cubs open another season. 
Three of the four Chicago TV stations made the Cubs game (which, fittingly enough, they lost) the top story on their evening newscasts. They all talk about baseball being more than a sport, about it being a way of life, a way to relive your childhood. 
PBS' Frontline is even doing an in-depth investigation into what, if anything, has "happened" to baseball. One fan is quoted as saying: "They don't play it for the fans anymore." 
Here's a hint: It never was played for the fans. It used to be played for the owners, who gobbled up huge profits for games. Now, it's played for the players, whose salaries would make Madonna jealous. 
Now, I know other sports are like this. I'll be the first to question whether Michael Jordan really earns every cent he makes. But the problem is that people expect baseball to be somehow different, above other sports, unaffected by the advance of time. They want baseball to remain the way Hollywood made it out to be in "The Pride of the Yankees" and "Field of Dreams." 
I'm a native of New England, serious hockey country, and no one gets choked up about hockey the way people do about baseball. It has been called the "national pasttime" as long as I can remember, and there are more movies about baseball than about hockey, football and basketball combined. 
My question is: Why does baseball deserve to be our national compulsion? Sure, it's the oldest of the four major American sports, and its roots are credited to Abner Doubleday, but it doesn't dominate the sporting world. Why? 
It's slow, with over three hours of play and maybe 10 minutes of exciting action. It's truly boring to watch (the only major sport that has no shot clock or timer). Except for Cuba and the Orient, no one beyond the U.S. seems to care for baseball; basketball seems to be becoming the world's sport of choice. 
Yes, baseball is a game that has its merits, and I will continue to show interest in the Boston Red Sox. But that doesn't mean I'll wax nostalgically about days in the sun and the game that makes Americans special. 
Besides, I think Kevin Costner did a better job in "Bull Durham." (And you thought Sarcastic would phase me.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 
The Observer.  
Today's Staff News Jennifer Haybrych John Lucas Frank Riveria Production  Accent Elisabeth Heard Lisa Monaco Sports Jason Kelley VIewpoint  

Michael O'Hara Brian Seiler Meghan Kelley 
Reject Massman Lab Tech Eric Ruethlig 
:I 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4ooo) 1s published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 


•VATI AN lTV-The Vatican is cautiously opening the door of the Roman Catholic Church to Anglicans disaf­fected by their bishops' decision to ordain women. Saying it does not want to hurt its relationship with the Anglican Church, the Vatican said that for the moment, it is leaving the matter up to the alienated Anglicans and British Catholic officials. But the statement Tuesday by papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro acknowledged the Vatican could step in after bishops from England and Wales take up the issue when they meet the week of April 19 in one of their twice-yearly conferences. The statement did not give the number of Anglicans who may wish to leave the Church of England over the vote on women priests last November. But British media reports have put the number at around 1,000, including some priests and bishops. 
Of INTEREST 
•Graduate School Preparation will be discussed by a faculty panel today at 4:15 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. All majors and classes are invited. The panel is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY•s TRADING April6 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 307,355,420 -.78 to 243.62 S&P COMPOSITE -1.13 to 441.16 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -1.62 to 3,377.57

UNCHANGED 570 

GOLD 
+$0.20 to $328.80 oz 
SILVER -$.016 to $3.692 oz 

Wednesday, April 7,1993 
FORECAST Cloudy this afternoon. High in the mid to upper 50s. Increasing cloudiness with a chance of rain tonight. Low in the mid 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 

City  H  L  
Anchorage  42  32  
Atlanta  66  51  
Bogota  68  48  
Cairo  68  50  
Chicago  31  27  
Cleveland  53  38  
Dallas  60  48  
Delroit  35  32  
Indianapolis  50  36  
Jerusalem  66  46  
London  52  48  
Los Angeles  67  56  
Madrid  66  41  
Minneapolis  36  23  
Moscow  39  36  
Nashville  51  46  
New York  48  41  
Paris  52  48  
Philadelphia  54  47  
Rome  57  32  
Seattle  61  45  
South Bend  53  38  
Tokyo  68  52  
Washington, D.C.  69  49  


NATIONAL 

•A 
BU UER U , 
archbishop's resignation was accepted Tuesday, a move that parishioners and priests hoped would signal the start of the Roman Catholic Church's recovery from a series of sex scandals in New Mexico. Pope John Paul II accepted the resignation of Archbishop Robert Sanchez, 59, the nation's first Hispanic archbishop. Sanchez offered to step down March 19 after allegations surfaced that he had sex with several women in the 1970s and possibly into the 1980s, when at least some of them were teen-agers. Sanchez had issued a statement March 9 asking forgiveness for any pain caused by the allegations, but he has neither confirmed nor denied them. The pope appointed Bishop Michael Sheehan of Lubbock, Texas, as acting head of the Santa Fe archdiocese, which is based in Albuquerque and covers 300,000 Catholics in 90 parishes. 

Ga~ man testifies that Marines beat him 
•Effective Interviewing techniques will be taught through discussion and role-playing exercises tonight from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune Student Center. The workshop is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1927: An audience in New York saw an image of Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover in the first successful long-distance demonstration of television. 

• 
In 1948: The World Health Organization was founded. 

• 
In 1976: China's leadership deposed Deputy Prime Minister Deng Xiaoping and appointed Hua Kuo-feng prime minister and first deputy chairman of the Communist Party. 

• 
In 1987: Harold Washington won a second term as Mayor of Chicago. 

• 
In 1990: A display of Robert Mapplethorpe photographs opened at Cincinnati's Contemporary f\rts Center, the same day the center and its director were indicted on obscenity charges. Both were later acquitted. 



Wednesday, April 7,1993 The ObseNer page 3 
Student Government to sponsor 'Book Fair'
Bosnian-ytarbegi~~\second. 
year'with.:.lrJa 
..:·.:,;.;::::\:~:~: ~ 

S~RAJEVO, 
Bosnia-Herted~l;i!r; In light of ~l!olo'"'"''"'.l' 
govma (AP) -The second year .,vlhe United Nn·>tinr"' of ethnic ~ar in Bosnia be_gan.n.<•;plans tog Tuesday w1th more bad news: ;: ~erb line Milit.ary co~manders of the;1(.t~Yndall 
warnng facttons could not ar-:-.rr.r the u. range peace talks and thou-::iiloner for sands of refugees were barred :·: grade. from leaving a Serb-encircled · · 
town. TA Yll~~~ •. 
Serbian President Slobodan ~1 tioris Milosevic also lent defiant sup~ ;:"date port to Bosnia's Serb rebels iii .; <1· Ser s a rare news conference, warn-. from ... ing the West against any more.cllrpaigns sanctions against Serbs. · .. cleansing.'' •.• •··· 
Nine U.N. trucks brought ... ::.Jhese people are ... food to Srebrenica, a Muslim they nee.d help," said Foa:> enclave surrounded by Serb.*'····· The p!ightof Srebrenica, forces where 60,000 residents Serb attacks reported and refugees tight each other .• Bosnia/s gover:l).ment n.ew nightly for food packets air-agency, prompted· Bosn •• dropped by U.S. relief planes. government forces .to pull.out 
o!U.N.. ~sponsored talks at 
Lo~al officials in the eastern,;;; Sarajevo) ~irpo~t with Bosma town r~fused to let .any' and Cr()atcommanders. women, children, SlCkf"Y+w"····il'r .(i
wounded or elderly board the ..,•. ,...·~ten: Sefer 
trucks to leave. They ·argue'' mander of.Jhe m 
that evacuation of the weakest· Muslim governm 
makes Srebrenica more vub sent two e 
nerable to capture by the read a . _•:.·c_ .·':-~ 
Serbs. 


StAmmel""•Stol""age! 
~5 Low ~5 $5.78Per Month! 
Rese~vatioV\ 683-1959 (684-0285) Maste~ MiV\i•Wa~ehovtse 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
Student Government will sponsor and staff the "Book Fair" next fall for students in an effort to help subsidize the high cost of books at the Notre Dame Bookstore, according to AI Marchetti, "Book Fair" co­commissioner at last night's Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) meeting. 
Frank Flynn and Nikki Well­mann, student body president and vice president, first sug­gested the "Book Fair" during their campaign, Marchetti said. 
The "Book Fair" will take place August 25 to 27 and 29 next year school year at Stepan Center and will enable students to sell books at their own de­termined prices and receive full profits; likewise students can buy books more easily and cheaper than at the Bookstore, Marchetti added. 
"We ask that the dorms stop sponsoring their own individual book fairs and support this campus-wide effort in order to offer a more complete selection of books for students to choose from," Marchetti explained. 
To help kick off this project, each dorm will appoint a dorm liaison to the "Book Fair" to serve as a resource in the dorm to answer questions and dis­tribute information, Marchetti said. 
"If we receive the kind of participation we hope for, it will help alleviate the costs students face in the buying and selling of their books," said Flynn. 
Before the end of the semester, students will receive more details concerning book drop-off, summer storage of books and the logistics of how the fair will run, Marchetti said. 
Members of Notre Dame Support Services discussed with HPC the campus improvements which they have implemented since last fall and changes for next year. 
Effective next year, the Uni­versity will not issue free linens to students in an effort to min· imize future housing costs, ac­cording to David Woods, direc­tor of Support Services. If nec­essary, students may purchase sheets and pillowcases through the University, he added. 
According to a University study over the past few months, only 1, 700 of the 27,000 student issued sheets have been laundered through the free service which the laundry program provides to students, Woods said. 
Although students will use their own sheets next year, the University will continue to offer free laundry service for all sheets, regardless of a student's enrollment in the current laundry plan through St. Michael's Laundry, Woods ex­plained. 
In an effort to improve the process of room inspections, the University will conduct room inspections in the residence halls instead of the residence assistants (RA) of each dorm, Woods said. 
Live Music at Corby•s Bughaus 
Wednesday Night 4n/93 Farewell Tour of Guze and Sean 
The staff members of each hall and the Office of Residence Life collaborated and estab­lished this new process to allow for more efficient room inspec­tions, he said. Many RA's re· quested that room inspections not be included in their job de· scriptions, he added. 
Students must return their rooms to the original condition by April 25 and the room in­spections will begin April 29, according to Woods. 
"We are hoping to have a much better scenario so after students return home, they will not be notified of any surprise fines," Woods said. "Cooperation is the key," he added. 
Additional improvements in­clude: 
•Bike 
racks in front of North Dining Hall and the stude11t parking lots. 

•Water 
fountains constructed on the north side of Stepan Center and near the tennis courts. 

•Additional 
sand volleyball pits, including illuminated pits adjacent to Stepan. 

•
Recycling stations which will be located outside of residence halls for wood and unwanted furniture. 

•Collection 
sites to be set to collect and return dishware and utensils which students have accumulated from the dining halls. 

•ND 
Support Services will properJy dispose of unwanted refrigerators which may contain Freon or other chemicals. 


HPC also elected three hall presidents to serve as repre­sentatives to Student Senate, according to Jackie Macy, HPC co-chair. Andrea Ricker, Badin Hall co-president; Karen Dubay, Breen-Phillips Hall co­president; Kara Christopherson, Walsh Hall co-president were elected by the hall presidents each receiving one vote. 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 

CLQSED SECTIONS M OF 7:00P.M.~
COURSES AIIDE.I! 598A 01 #5169 · Solid Modeling for Poduct Eng.; 3cr. hrs. 
FIN 470 01 2060
499 01 #5170 · Departmemal Tutorial; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required OEOS 141L 03 4918 
OOVT 3160 01 4599



Attention: Student 
CHANGES 

OOVT 342T 02 3290497 01 #I008 • change to variable credit hours OOVT 478 01 4968616 01 #2251 · change days/time to: TH 8:00-9:15 OOVT 486 01 3698

Summer Storage 
652A 01 #0980 · change days/time to: T 2:30-4:30 OOVT 491C 01 4661677 01 #3232 • change to 3 credit hours OOVT 491E 01 0098522 01 #4178 · change days/time to: TH 02:45-4:00 OOVT 491K 01 4664522 01 #3324 • change days/time to: TH 02:45-4:00 
OSC 495A 01 4646 HIST 308A 01 3646
Your safest, most secure, and 
COURSES CANCELLED 
CLOSED SECTIONS 
HIST 326A 01 3463 MQEl.iQQ~~ HIST 341A 01 5030
ENOL 412Z 01 #4991
conveniently located storage 
HIST 347A 01 5029
ENOL 423C 01 #4992 
ARHI 483 01 4474 HIST 394 01 2175
OSC 412Z 01 #5002 
AS 411 02 1489 HIST 395 01 0534

facility since 1990 has a FREE 
OSC 423C 01 #5003 
BA 391 01 1212 HIST 423A 01 5031 BA 391 02 1004 HIST 430 01 4443
CLOSED SECTIONS 

RENT special for STUDENTS 
BA 391 03 1213 HIST 458A 01 4115 
ASQEl.iQQ~~ BA 490 04 1506 
HIST 473A 01 4687 BIOS 401 01 2145 HIST 474A 01 3494

ONLY. Call for details. 
AFAM 371 01 3652 
COMM 103 02 9702 MARK 476 01 2291AFAM 455 01 3886 COMM 103 03 9703 ME 425 01 0038
AMST 302E 01 4588 COMM 103 04 9704 ME 469 01 0684AMST 354H 01 4699 COMM 103 05 9705 MUS 2200 02 0777AMST 367H 01 4702 COMM 103 06 9706 MUS 2200 03 2521AMST 368H 01 4703 COTH 435 01 4520 
MUS 226 01 2524
AMST 386H 01 4704 EOUC 404 30 8430 PHIL 246 01 2620AMST 387H 01 4705 
EE 498B 01 4914 PHIL 261 02 0279
(219)271-1105 
AMST 401E 01 4590 ENOL 312 01 1998 PHIL 265 01 2623AMST 402E 01 4591 ENOL 319A 02 2001 PSY 403 01 4788AMST 403E 01 4592 ENOL 392B 01 4612 PSY 453 
01 4790AMST 404E 01 4593 ENOL 399A 01 3688 

PSY 462 01 4791
ANTH 310 01 3492 ENOL 426A 01 4617 RLST 235 31 9531
ANTH 359 01 4447 ENOL 435A 01 4580 RLST 251 43 9543
• Resident Manager 
ANTH 405 01 3992 ENOL 453 01 3693 RLST 339 51 9551ANTH 431 01 
4451 ENOL 466A 01 4605 RLST 362 55 9555ANTH 454 01 3560 ENOL 470 01 
• Security System 
4626 ROSP 318 01 3476
• Call Now for Reservations 
ARCH 443 01 1400 ENOL 470A 01 4993 ROSP 328 01 3021
ARCH 543 01 1403 ENOL 471 01 4994 soc
Located on Douglas Rd. 
486 01 4571

ARCH 543 02 1023 ENOL 480 01 4628 THEO 246 01 1155
between St. Rd. 23 & Grape Rd. 
ARCH 598 01 1404 ENOL 485B 01 4629 THEO 253 01 1150ARCH 598 02 0401 ENOL 495A 01 1223 THEO 265 
01 1147 



page 4 The ObseNer Wednesday, April 7,1993 

NASA aims for Thursday launch after delay 
Alderman 
continued from page 1 

After several months the baby was going to be moved from a hospital to an institution his father called "a warehouse for the brain dead." The night before the transportation, the father disconnected the respi­rator and held doctors at bay with a gun. 
He was charged with murder because he had "intentionally killed" his son. Yet in Illinois the 5th amendment allows for a right to grand jury to find probable cause to go to trial. The grand jury decided not to put him on trial. 
"Putting the question to the people is constitutionally guar­anteed by a grand jury. People are empowered to voice opin­ions and make them heard," Alderman explained. 
"Under the Bill of Rights, we (the populace) are as crucial as the judge and litigants are-we don't have to just sit by and watch. We can speak out and decide what kind of society to have, " she said. 
Alderman's lecture was the last event in the "Thinking Anew about Public Issues" series sponsored by the Ideas and Issues Commission of Stu­dent Union Board. The series examined domestic issues in light of the fall election and the new Clinton administration. 
financial aid for students demonstrating need. 
• 
The University must seek to acquire a $40 to $50 million endowment for excellence in graduate education. 

• 
A committee should be formed on International Studies to broaden the scope of foreign studies. 


It is necessary to recognize 
that all of the subjects included in the committee report have not been discussed, O'Meara said. 
He continued that "all of the proposals included in the Collo­quy for the Year 2000 can be implemented effectively in the near future. It is a matter of money. In a reasonable econ­omy, the proposals will become a part of the University." 
The PACE reports that pre­ceded the Colloquy have be­come a part of the Notre Dame 
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS 
TRANSLATORS 
Earn extra money as contract transla­torin growing segment ofourcommu­nications business. Call now for details and information packet. Zoss Com­munications, Inc. 219-288-1422. 

GROUP FUNDRAISEI 
YOUR ENERGY OUR METHOD YOUR PROFIT OUR SUPPUES YOUR GROUP 

Earn up to S1,500 Call Today 800·592·2121 
Ext. 314 

LOOKING FOR A F~UN WAY TO GET IN SHAPE? 
}UST AEROBICS IS THE PLACE! 



Just Aerobics offers you: 
l. Stairmaster, exercise bikes & treadmills 
2. 
Exerflex suspended wood aerobic floor 

3. 
Showers & locker facilities 

4. 
Boutique with fitness apparel 

5. 
No membership fee-walk-ins welcome 

6. 
Co-ed aerobic classes 7 days a week 

7. 
Conveniently located near campus 


Just Aerobics is the aerobic fitness center 
focused on the future! 
r----------------------------, 
Bring this coupon  Name____________  
in for 1 FREE visit  Address__________  
at our new location  Phone______________________  

WRC 
continued from page 1 

proposal for a women's center to the Faculty-Student Senate and ask them for assistance in approaching the administra­tion. O'Donnell said the Faculty Senate has been supportive in 
Colloquy 
continued from page 1 

giving the WRC ideas for stressing the need for a women's center on campus. 
"Some of our ideas have come from George Lopez and the Faculty Senate, others have come from the Quality of Life Committee and Feminist Fo­rum," she said. 
Lopez and other members of the Faculty Senate were unavailable for comment. 
tradition. The proposals in­cluded in the Colloquy for the Year 2000 will be important elements of change for the fu­ture of Notre Dame. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -For the second time in two weeks, a space shuttle count­down came unglued in the final few seconds before launch early Tuesday. The likely culprit: a computer circuit problem. 
Computer data indicated a valve had not closed in Discov­ery's main propulsion system, raising the danger of a hydro­gen fuel spill and a possible explosion. However, engineers believe the valve closed prop­erly and that a faulty sensor switch or broken wire pre­vented that information from being received by the on-board computers, officials said. 
NASA resumed the count­down Tuesday evening, aiming for a 1:29 a.m. EDT Thursday liftoff of Discovery on a mission to examine Earth's fragile ozone layer, as engineers worked on a quick-fix change in computer programming. Good launch weather was forecast. 
Columbia's countdown on March 22 was aborted three seconds before liftoff when a stuck valve caused the main engines to shut down. And Dis­covery's on-board computers automatically halted the count­down 11 seconds before launch, less than five seconds shy of main engine ignition. 
In each instance, NASA im-

To 
~NO 


mediately doused the engines with water and had to drain 528,000 gallons of fuel from the external tank. Shuttle director Thomas Utsman estimates every launch scrub at the pad costs about $500,000. 
The five-member crew, whose smiles seemed forced as they emerged from the shuttle, spent the day reviewing flight data and flying training jets. 
"Space flight is a complicated business, and sometimes things don't go as planned," said shuttle commander Kenneth Cameron. 
John Pike, space policy pro­ject director for the Federation of American Scientists, was less charitable. 
"It's bad luck that they've had two aborts in a row. It's good luck that they caught the problem on the ground. It is a reminder that this system is not perfect and that at some point in the next decade we're going to have another Challenger accident." 
Hours before Discovery's countdown was abruptly halted, Utsman acknowledged that NASA had "hit a surge of problems" in recent weeks. Both NASA and engine maker Rocketdyne, a division of Rockwell International, have formed investigative teams. 
"What's behind it?" Utsman asked, throwing up his hands. "Human factor?" 
Discovery was supposed to lift off at 1:32 a.m. EDT, but NASA held the clock at the nine­minute mark for an hour be­cause of high crosswinds and excessive temperature readings for an engine valve. 
Despite Air Force reports that the crosswinds still exceeded safety limits, launch officials re­sumed the countdown after re­solving the valve problem and were stunned when the count­down clocks stopped at 11 sec­onds. · 
"We don't come in here to scrub launches. We come here to fly," a testy Brewster Shaw, deputy shuttle director, told re­porters. "We've had a couple of relatively minor hardware problems, which is to be ex­pected in a program of this complexity. We'll deal with those and then we'll go fly." 
Only one shuttle has made it to orbit so far in 1993, a year in which NASA had planned to fly eight missions. Columbia's German-sponsored science mission was pushed into late April and fell behind at least another day or two because of Discovery's slip. 


-------~ -----------------~~-------------------~-~-~------------~ 
page 5 

Wednesday, April 7,1993 The Observer 
Bustamante:!)itNAFT~~~J%.~~:~~~~ 
blamed for economic woe's";,; 
comes from the U,S. and t~e By MICHAEL WORKMAN supply of labor comes from News Writer Mexico. Since there is plenty of 
opportunities for work. thl:lr~is 
The North American Free no need to wait seven years." ..... Trade Agreement (NAFTA} Will Bustamante explaineg how a have little effect regarding la-loophole in the Immigration bor migration from Mexico to Reform Act of 1986 h~ led to the United States, according to the continual use of undocu~ Jorge Bustamante, a sociology mented workers by Afuericli,Ji professor at Notre Dame, and a companies in or~er leading expert on Mexican im· down labor wages;' · migration issues. Under the 1986 reform, 
The people of the United ;; order for a worke:r to qe hil;ffd. States are ..suffering from a they must produce a documenf syndrome of misper,c(')pthms ;:;;.:thl\\ pro*.es .they,J).te.4eg~J!y. that assume NAFTA would >•permitted to work Jn steal jobs from the q.s." h(! •• J)pited~1~t.~~· H.Qwex-er> said. "This is a myopic view, ·· employer is not tequ~re and NAFTA is being considered _keep a ~op:Y pfJqe (~f a scapegoat of econoq11c record; ,,,, -'" 'rt'#E '~'"';' crisis." . . . · · iiM' "Many' ttm:es •. emplQ
Bustamante cited researched >would give •an address··· data that refutes the common to get a gocum~nt for f;iJ;! chE)ap notion that American jobs as $15; Tbe'wor](er getstpe would be taken by an influx of form. shows it. ~nd begi~~ Mexican immigrants. work. Now the workE)rs are 
"It is estimated that five two times in trouble;" said years after NAFTA is signed Bustamante. ''Entering the that no significant impact of country illegally and using a 
By MICHAEL O'HARA but also look out for the in­McKellar agreed, but was
people leaving Mexico to the fake document," he explained. 
News Writer terests of the continent. quick to cite that it was WeigleU.S. will be felt," he said. "In "All students should be very who was responsible for thesix to 10 years you could find a "This makes the labor even Taking six of seven awards, well prepared," Weigle said. competition being a success.
decrease of 15 to 20 percent, cheaper because ·the employer the Notre Dame mock European "Most people should be experts "(She) was the single mostand in year 15 there will be a knows that the rules are bro· Community (EC) team proved by now." important factor. She is a stu­
possible decrease up to 50 ken," he added. "If the em­
successful in the first-ever Although the event was con­dent's professor," he said. "Shepercent." ployer is ever questioned, he statewide model EC competition sidered a competition, Weigle made us want to do well." 
can say the employee showed held at Indiana Uni­said the students were not fo­Weigle said the trip was wellExplaining this dramatic de· me the form and it ,look(ld versity/Purdue University at cusing on that aspect of the worth the time and effort, andcline, Bustamante said, "Labor good." · .· ·· · Indianapolis (IUPUI) this past event. she got a lot out of it. "I got tomigration is not a result of Since the law does not re­weekend. "We didn't care about win­interact with the students in a povorty and unemployment. quire the employer to keep the The members of the team ning awards. We weren't different situation," she said.
Eighty-five percent of undocu-form he or she is in the clear. 
were taken from Marcia Weigle, thinking about the competi­"We had a great, fun time." 
mented immigrants had a job Bustamante said he expects assistant professor of gov­tion," she said. Since Weigle is leaving afterbefore leaving Mexico. 1t is not that his research will have ap­ernment, politics of Western Dan Haskell, junior, Great this year, she said she hopes the the extremely poor people that plicable results for aU parties Europe government class and Britain's Minister of Finance, involvement of Notre Dame inleave," rather "those who can affected by NAFTA and fu~pre divided into delegations from agreed. "I wouldn't classify it the competition will continueafford the cost to cross." related agreements. .• · Great Britain and Luxembourg. as a competition," he said. "We after she is gone.
For a person to get a gov-"My objective is to demystify A portion of her syllabus was learned how to deal with peo­"If there is enough interest, Iernmental visa to work in the and to kriow the benefits ofla­geared toward this competition, ple." would like to see a Model Euro­United States. it may take up to bor migration," he said .. "Sirice according to Weigle. "I com­"It was really exciting and we pean Community Club," she seven years. For many Mexi· ,, we don't know the tota.Jetie(;ts; 
bined class work with role play­got to learn a lot," said Junior said. 
cans this is not realistic, and we. don't know the costs or ing." Brian Roof, Great Britain's Weigle said that eitherthat is why they choose to'\ benefits: Whenwe do,itwqj,dd The competition, organized Head of Government. "It was through a club or through fu­cross the border in search of be able to be used in future<ne~ by Professor John McCormick of very beneficial." ture classes continuing in­work, according Bustamante. gotiations," Atlitr····~ilmn•,/ IUPUI, involved the students in Alan McKellar, senior, Lux­volvement could be achieved. 
"The price of labor is shaped · · The lecture was sponsored true-to-life situations and was embourg's Foreign Minister, The 14 students who attended by an asymmetry of power," he by th(l Kellpg l]:lSti~Y, designed to simulate the said he was pleased with the and the winners were assaid. "The demand for work International Studies. •·•· upcoming European Council way the competition was run. follows: 

The Notre Dame community 

~~\COlJ!e~ 
these members of our family into the Catholic Church 

1(jm (joUf Mif.J Hanley 'lJiana Ware£ 
will receive the sacraments of Baptism, Confirmation, and Eucharist 


'lJave 'lJettore tJ3ecf.:y 1\joeger SfiirCey Luttio 'l(?nara PicKJns 2?pn 1\_atton Jolin !l{_ic/iarcfson Stacy Seggennan Jennifer S[avik_ Lissa o/antJ3e66er CJ'ony ty"ang Stefanie Zerf(fe 
will be received into Full Communion in the Catholic Church 
a[( are most weCcome to atteruf 
The Easter Vigil 

Saturday, April10 9:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
summit in June. "It was realistic," he said. "I 
The students participated in thought it was going to be more simulated council meetings, had disorganized." to work through an agenda of Teamwork, according to present European problems, Weigle, was a good develop· and even had to deal with a cri­ment brought out by the com· sis situation, Weigle explained. petition. 
Through lobbying, negotiating "They worked as a team the and role playing the students whole time," she said. "They were not only looking out for showed great character and the interests of their country, grace." 

ACT NOW! 





GRADUATION 1993 
FREE 
ROOM & BOARD 
DEADLINE FOR HOUSING EXTENDED TO 
APRIL 8TH $5.80/hr May 7-16 
APPLY IN PERSON CATERING E~·IPLOY~1ENT OFFICE SOUTH DINING HALL-LO\vER LEVEL 
MONDAY, APRIL 5-THURSDAY, APRIL 8 lOAM TO 4P~1 
Winning Best Head of Gov­ernment was Roof; Best Foreign Minister was Faust Capobianco, Great Britain; Best Minister of Agriculture was Mason Evans, Great Britain; Best Permanent Representative was Leslie Fautsch, Luxembourg; and Best Minister of Finance, Haskell. 
The Great Britain delegation also was honored as the Best Delegation of the competition. 
Members of the delegations were: Great Britain; Roof, Capobianco, Minister of Finance Kevin Gruben, Evans, Permanent Representative Molly Phelan, and European Commission representatives Rebecca Krieg and Anne Quast. Luxembourg; Co-heads of Gov­ernment Robin Hoban and Jackie Martinez, McKellar, Haskell, Minister of Agriculture Brian Casey, Fautsch, and Eu­ropean Commission represen­tative Rick Conners. 
Correction 

In Monday's edition, The Observer printed an incomplete version of a story featuring "Just a Sister Away." The unprinted portion of the story stated that there are approximately 35 members o the group, and that an­nouncements for the meetings are announced weekly in ads in The Observer. The Observer regrets the error. 





Viewpoint 
Paul Pearson 
Ideas and Ideals 

Posted on the wall behind the Viewpoint page (the "Wall of Shame") are two letters sent to the Observer from a man named Eugene Changey. 
Or God's Son, as he prefers to be called. 
This man has been convinced, either through a vision in the sky or too many nights in the local watering hole, that he is Jesus and is receiving direct messages from the Almighty. 
The first letter begins: "As Almighty God, I greet you. I am Dictating this Holy Letter through My Son, Eugene/. Jesus. They are one and the same spirit Reincarnated." (emphases in original) 
Humble, isn't he? 
Actually, "Holy Letter," may be a bit of a stretch, since the rest of the letter is a vicious dia­tribe claiming that people who stray in any way from God's will (he doesn't bother to say what that is) will be reincarnated "in the body of animals." 
I guess all that pleasant fluff about God loving all creatures great and small was a pipe dream, after all. The hunters of this world should be pleased to hear that. 
Anyway, God seems to have become more arrogant since he las\ talked to us, since Eugene's first letter ends: "My Holy Name is void of form, so it is never written on paper. My Son will sign His Surname to evaluate (sic) that true love can and will conquer fear!" 
If the first letter left any doubts about poor Eugene's sanity, the second one made his psychosis perfectly clear. 
The second one is actually 

addressed to Dave Bickham, the state editor of the Lancaster (Oh.) Eagle-Gazette. I guess Mr. Bickham reached the same conclusions I did (that poor Eu­gene is, if not insane, than grossly misinterpreting his Christianity) and wrote him a letter. 
Now Eugene -or is it Jesus, which does he prefer to be called? It's so hard to tell ­concludes that Bickham is "an atheistic bastardu with a soul "like dung, which is trampled under the feet of Swine!!" sim­ply because Bickham disagrees with him. 
Gosh, and I thought some people at Notre Dame were closed-minded. 
He then tells Bickham to "Go 
Wednesday, April 7, 1993 

r 
page 6 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor......... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor ................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ... .Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

merrily through your world of make-believe that I do not Exist as Almighty God of this Earth and universe!! You are in for a rude awakening!" 
It sounds like someone is in a "world of make-believe," but it's not Bickham. 
Of course, poor Eugene is just some poor disillusioned nut and we can just laugh at him and ignore him, right? 
I suspect that's what they said about the Rev. Jim Jones before he convinced more than 900 of his followers to commit suicide in Jonestown, Guyana, in 1978. 
It's probably also what they said about David Koresh before he and his cult massed enough guns to make the NRA jealous and declared war on the FBI. 
I also think that's what they said about Michael Griffin of Rescue America, an extremist anti-abortion group, before he was arrested for allegedly killing a Pensacola, Florida, doctor who performed abor­tions. I know some people would prefer that I call Rescue America a "pro-life" group, but after its president set up a fund for the family of the killer, I don't think that label quite fits anymore. 
What do these people have in common? All of them are (or were) religious freaks who seem to ignore the parts of the Bible that don't help their per­sonal causes. 
You know, all those silly ref­erences to ''Love your neighbor as yourself' and "Blessed are the meek" and all that crap. 
I say "crap," because if there's one thing religious nuts are good at, it's treating their brother or sister like so much "dung," as poor Eugene calls it. 
With the power of "the word of God" behind them (it's amaz­ing how many people claim to be talking directly with the Almighty every day. It makes you wonder how She manages to run the universe), they con­vince whatever weak-minded souls they can find that they must hate anyone who lives by a different set of values or questions their own faith. 
I think it was Plato who talked about an unexamined life not being worth living. These peo­ple, and the poor souls like Mr. Griffin who are lured into their group/cult/order, end up leading the worst kind of life -that of the blind follower who, like the Nazis, will do anything they are told to do. 
Even if it means harassing the nearest non-believer. Even if it means treating their 
fellow human being like crap. 
Even if it means murder. 

Are these just Jesus freaks who take their Christianity a little too seriously? No, they are sick people who need to be treated as such -not just "religious fanatics," but reli­gious nuts. They need to be hospitalized and put into ther­apy so that they can become tolerable parts of society. 
Or, at least, so they won't hurt anyone else. 
Paul Pearson is a senior American studies major at Notre Dame. He was previously an associate news editor for The Observer. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"The game ain't over till it's over." 
-Yogi Berra 
Baseballfever. Catch it!: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

-----·~------~~~--~---.., 
page 7 

Accent 
Wednesday, April?, 1993 



Eat Smart 
National Nutrition Month 
Dining halls encourage healthy eating 

Rob Schupansky SUPWITDAT? 
BLESS THEE NOTRE ... OUCH! 
I 
'm sure we have all heard the bells at Sacred Heart play once every morning and once an afternoon. At ten after 
ten every morning the beautiful music 
fills the air and the hearts of Notre Dame students with "Notre Dame Our Mother." Students can't help but sway, just like at football games, to the sound. It brings a smile to all our faces, that is, until the end of the song. 
The end of the song goes "La La La La La La... bless thee Notre Dame." The "La's" are there because that's almost all of what the students know. But the problem isn't with the words, but rather how the bells at Sacred Heart play that last note. It's like Alphalpha of the Little Rascals is singing to Darla. It's the most sour note I've ever heard. 
"SUPWITDAT?" 
Notre Dame's alma mater, every morning, never fail. gets mutilated . If someone can devise a way for the bells to play the song, shouldn't they have designed a way to play it right? 
On that brisk Saturday afternoon next fall, when the stadium is full and everyone is excited, the entire band should play that sour note-the same note that I hear every morning. It's doubtful that anyone would appreciate it then, why tolerate it at Sacred Heart? 
Of course, Sacred Heart is the most wonderful place in the world. It's gorgeous inside and out. It's just that one last note, in the traditional Notre Dame song, that needs a little more ren­ovation. 
If there was an eyesore on campus, the university would get rid of it, guaranteed. Well this is an earsore! If no one can fix it how about just skipping the last note altogether? Or how about every morning getting a trumpet player to play the last note like Gonzo used to do on the Muppet Show? At least that would be amusing. 
The issue isn't a major life or death issue at all. It's all a matter of principle. The song is Notre Dame. It's our song, something all students here at Notre Dame share. It should be played right. 
Here at Notre Dame, we're taught, if not enforced, to take pride in our school-Its traditions, its opportunities, its 'family', and its experience. This includes that of our Alma Mater. The Alma Mater, similiar to the fight song, is something intangible Notre Dame students can carry with them for the rest of their lives. Its something we have, that no other university does. Its a part of that distinctiveness that makes us The University of Notre Dame. And yet every morning, the last note of this tradition is not as it should be. 
As students here (or should I say who hear) at Notre Dame will have to put up with this-morning after morning. But maybe, just maybe, someone will clean out their ears and notice just how sour that last note is. 
And maybe, just maybe, this tradition we hold so dear in our Notre Dame hearts will be corrected. and when that song, even the last note, rings throughout the campus, we can hold our heads high-as soon as we learn the words. 
Gee, looks like we've got our work to do too. 
Rob Schupansky 's columns appear every other 
Correction 

In yesterday's issue, April, 6, 1993, the photo referred to in the "Cultural Corner" column in was inadvertently left out. "Old Fire God 
Brazier,"  is  
currently  on  
display  at  The  

Snite Museum of Art. The Observer regrets this error.

By KEVIN SULLIVAN Accent Writer 
There's a new wave of euphoria that has swept over the Dome in. the past month. We're talking about March Madness. We're talking about the. Rite of Spring. We're talking National Nutrition Month. 
That's right, in case those triangle-tents weren't visible enough (though that would seem utterly incomprehensible) March was again singled out by the American Dietetic Institute as a time to pay special attention to what exactly people are consuming on a daily basis. 
Most think they know everything they need to about nutrition; most are wrong. Many moons have passed since little Domers learned how to eat healthy by watching tips from the 
Superfriends and Schoolhouse Rock jingles by "The Chomper." Times have changed. 
For instance, the Four Food Groups -that model of a balanced 
diet that has been imbedded in 
the culture of American youth -nUtS • IS • pOU try • rea As National Nutrition Month is out. Like Ronald Reagan it e poultry e bread e Cereal e mi winds to ~ close, students 
has become (or always was) a • . must decide for themselves lifeless relic of the decadent gurt • nuts • fish • poultry • brea to be the most nutritious 
eighties lifestyle. As hard • people they can be. They 
as it may seem to believe, nuts • fish • poultry • bread • cerea should look to the the powers that be in f' h 1 b d 1 'lk Pyramid -grains are in 
the wonderful world of IS • OU t • rea • cerea • mi • and meats are out. 
Morris Inn Chef wins cooking competition 
nutrition have put the kibosh on the Four Food Groups plan. 
As Notre Dame's Dining Hall Nutritionist, Jan McQuere explained, the U.S.D.A. has formulated a new dietary guide, transforming the food groups into a Food Pyramid. The din­ing halls have accordingly set up e a s y -t o -r e a d 
t.l 
Uf' • h 
• IS
ead e Ce milk e yog • bread • Cere
f' h 'lk
IS • mi • YO 

try e bread e Cer 1
f' h . ea

ts • IS • milk • yogu OUltry • bread • Cereal •
f' h 1 b 
models of the pyramid for students to peruse. If students have been studying these models carefully, the basics' of the new dietary plan should be clear to them. 
It emphasizes first the nutritional importance of grain products, and secondly of fruits and vegetables. Meats are to form a small portion of the diet, and oils and fats should be generally avoided (that's right -no more guilty, late-night cups of hot fat). 
The true impact of the new food plan will be difficult to gauge. Reaction to past editions of Nutrition Month at Notre Dame has been subdued. As McQuere admits, "Students didn't exactly run over to tell me about it." 
Both McQuere and Jim Yarbrough agree that Domers have shown general disinterest about National Nutrition Month and nutrition in general. This is probably why tht dining halls have a rather subdued 
promotion this month -leaving it 
up to students to take their own 
dietary responsibilities. 
By CAROLYN KAPUSTIJ Accent Writer 
On March 10 and 11 Donald F. Miller, Notre Dame's own executive chef from the Morris Inn, competed in the Indiana All-Electric Culinary Classic and won third place for his efforts. Competing along with Miller in the team competition was Scott T. Erwin, CEC, executive chef at Morris Park Country Club. 
The Culinary Classic is an annual event held during the Indiana Food service and Hospitality Exposition at the Indiana Convention Center and is free to the public. The aim of the competition is to spotlight the talents of thirty of Indiana's best chefs. Fifteen teams of two chefs, representing hotels, restaurants, and country clubs from Indiana are selected for participation in the Culinary Classic by a committee of members of the American Culinary federation, the Restaurant and Hospitality Association of Indiana, and the Indiana Electric Association. 
"They brought five kitchens from the U. S. Culinary Olympic team," said Miller, "and set them up in the Hoosier Dome. We were then assigned to a kitchen." 
As the competition bean each team is given 30 minutes to inspect a mystery bag of ingredients and plan a four course meal. The chefs took only the ingredients they plan to use out of the bag and spent the next couple hours in the kitchen preparing the meal. 
"We had half an hour to write a menu," said Miller. "We then had three an a half hours to prepare a four course meal for 18 people from scratch." He laughed, "From the get go." 
The meal was then judged by certified master chefs who both taste the food and judge the cooking procedure. 
"There were three judges," said Miller. "Two were kept away from the kitchen. The third was a line judge who judged us on cleanliness and sanitation. We were also judged on utilization of food. We had to put all of our scraps in a pan, and the amount that was left after we finished cooking was judged also." 
The food was then served to the judges as well as sixteen guests, who paid ten dollars each for the meal. "The proceeds went to the Chef and the Child Foundation," said Miller. 
The chefs did not know what was in the mystery bag until the competition began "All of the food was indigenous to Indiana," said Miller, "and was judged on creativity, taste, flavor, table service, and table top presentation." 
Miller's gold medal winning meal contain four courses. The first was minted lamb consomme. "It is a real clear soup," said Miller. The second course was a salad which Miller titled, "Prairie greens of Tippacanoe tailwinds." The main course was hickory smoked duck and sweet potato cobbler, and for desert he served raspberry yogurt ice cream swirled in a white chocolate mouse served in a nougat basket. The team won a gold medal, and $1000 for their efforts. 
Miller did have some apprehensions about the competition. "I was afraid that I would get something that I couldn't identify," he said. He did, however, do research before going to the competition. "I sent off for information to the Indiana Department of Agriculture." It was this information that helped Miller to prepare a meal with an American flavor instead of cooking in the traditional classical style. 
"Most everybody there went with the French theme," said Miller, "but we used American cooking methods. We used smoking methods, which was used by American Indians." 
Miller has been a chef for 24 years, and the executive chef at the Morris Inn for six years. He holds numerous gold medals from the American Culinary Foundation, and in 1990 was also named South Bend Chef of the year. 


·--~--~ -----~---­
----~ --·~~··--­
page 8 The Observer 
Belles' Kloepfer thrives on changes
-
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
Change does not phase senior Natalie Kloepfer. in fact she thrives on it. The No. 2 player on the Belles' tennis team has jumped two spots this year after spending two years at No. 4. Despite this change in positioning, she has compiled an impressive 6-2 record on the season. 
"I add a lot more variety to my game now. I move the opponents around and take more chances because I have confidence," said Kloepfer. "I learned to go out and do better. I realized this was my senior year and that I had nothing to lose. I'm playing to win." 
Kloepfer has also started playing doubles for the first time this year. She and her partner, senior Shannon McGinn, are undefeated at number three. 
"Doubles is a lot more mental work," said Kloepfer. who would like to continue playing in a mixed doubles league after graduation, 
Kloepfer bas seen the team go through several changes since she began three and a half years 



Bookstore 
continued from page 12 

not have such an easy time next round. however. Waiting in the wings is Coming From Behind, a first year team led by freshman football players Re­naldo Wynn and Thomas KnighL At one point of their 21-8 thrashing of Bushwackin' Offense. Snatchin' D. Bookstore head commissioner Andy Sinn had to temporarily stop the game to ask Wynn not to slam dunk so emphatically for fear of rim and backboard damage. 
The contest, which is set for Wednesday, April 14. should be one of the highlights of the round of 256. 
In other play yesterday, All the President's Men, featuring University president "Monk" Malloy, defeated Pontius Pilate and the Four Nail Drivers 21­
13. Board of Trustees member Lou Nanni dished out 13 assists in the win. 
In a battle of the sexes earlier 



Classifieds 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn $2,000+/month + world travel 
NOTICES 

(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career TYPING 256-6657 employment available. No 
experience necessary. For Need someone to do your typing? employment program call Call me. $1 per page. Will pick up & 1-206-634-0468 ext C5584. deliver. Call Linda: 284-6445 worl< 277-9120 home. INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­
ILOST & FO~ND I Make money teaching basic 
conversational English abroad. 
FOUND: Silver and mother-of­pearl earring between C.S.C. and Seigfreid. Call Bill at 4·1307. 
LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING. OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL DINAMARIE "DIDI" GARCIA X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL. THANKS. 
LOST: Sunday, April 4 at Stepan fields -a pair of black sunglasses w/ reflective lenses and ear 

ago. In her junior year, the Belles moved up from the NAJA division to the more competitve NCAA Division IH. 
"In my freshman year, we went to the Nationals in Kansas City. Now that we've moved up to Division m we only play in the Spring instead of all year long," said Kloepfer. "And we don't have to play teams that don't have strong players." 
Kloepfer said the team as a whole plays better when they go up against challenging teams. "It's hard to play players who aren't good or who push the ball back," said Kloepfer. After Saint Mary's, Kloepfer hopes to go into genetic counseling. 
But for now, Kloepfer is enjoying her last year playing for Saint Mary's and is optomistic about the future of the team after she leaves. 
"I always looked up to players who were older than me," said Kloepfer. "Everyone on the team adds a certain ingredientto the team and makes it really good. Andrea (Ayres) is flashy, where Thayma (Darby) is a die hard, and Mary (Cosgrove) is just spectacular. It all adds up together." 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXII 
TOP16 
Rhythm&Darts Tequila White Lightning XI Malicious Prosecution H-A-R-0-K-0-R-E Bitter Afrodeeziaks White Shadow Fighting Kernels Ebony Side of the Dome Corby's II Blackjack Pale Riders The Hawk Will Never Die Corby's I Dawgs In Heat Smooth Momentum 
in the tournament. Don't Hate Us Because We're Beautiful. captained by Sam Spencer, defeated We've Got Great Per­sonalities and became the first women's team to defeat a man's team and advance from the preliminaries ·to the round of 512. 
The final day of the round of 512 will showcase several en-
Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,0QO­$4,000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other benefitsl No previous training or teaching certificate required. For International Employment program, call the International Employment Group: (206) 632-1146 ext J5584. 
AlASKA SUMMER F;:MPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in canneries or $4000+/month on fishing boats. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program callt-206­545-4155 extA5584 
tertaining contests. Three top 16 seeds-Bitter, Malicious Prosecution, and Tequila White Lightning-will be playing to­day. Bitter and Malicious Pros­ecution play at 4 p.m. at Stepan Courts five and one, respec­tively, while Tequila White Lightning, last year's runner-up. plays at 4 p.m. behind the bookstore. 
Furnished four bedroom OAKHILL 


FOR RENT 
CONDO for summer rental. Call 
Amy or Doug a\614-237-1370 for SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 info. bdrms, close to campus, safe neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all utilities. Call Monica 

FOR SALE 
232-2794. 

3 BDRM. HOUSE, FULL BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS. FROM ND. 234-1883. 
2 BDRM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277· 4155. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219·291-7153. 
Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2 baths. Located College Pari< 
ALLSTATE 

CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE COST-CUTTING DISCOUNTS: 
. GOOD STUDENT . PREFERRED DRIVER . ECONOMY CAR . AIRBAG . ANTI-LOCK BRAKES 
JOHN DAVENPORT,ChFC 289-1993 
OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS 
Condos. Corner of Bulla & Ironwood. Must be responsible 85 Volks Vanagon Van 103,000 tenant $595 per mo or Sale miles, most highway, blue w/grey &65,900. Send info to PO Box 4075 pinstripe, new battery, good tires. South Bend IN 46634. 3500 or best offer 289-2353. 
Seniors 
continued from page 12 
"They're not only great ath­letes but also great role mod­els-they all are at least 3.0 students," added Bayliss. 
As the six seniors lead the Irish in their quest for another berth in the NCAA champi­onship, they are actually re­flecting more on their friend­ship and the times they've had together than their tennis achievements. 
Coming in to Notre Dame, many had already met at vari­ous junior tennis tournaments around the country, and thought they knew what it would be like to all play to­gether for four years. 
However. they have actually found that the friendships, like their performances, have ex­ceeded e;'(pectations. 
"I guess when I first came in I was injured so I didn't know how I'd fit in," commented Woj­talik, "But it didn't take long at alL 
"When I came here I realized that tennis is a team game, with a team behind you. I think our closeness and will to win is what has helped us win the most" 
"We're an incredibly tight­knit group-I've known Mark Schmidt since we were nine­years~old," said Coleman, "Every time we go out we're a team, totally behind each other. It's been an honor to play for Notre Dame." 
Andy Zurcher has been an integral part of the group since his freshman year. but has not been able to play this season due to a severe wrist injury suf­fered over Christmas. After reinjuring the wrist during a comeback, he realized that he 

Wednesday, April7, 1993 
would not be able to play his senior year. Thus, he is await­ing word from the MBA pro­gram, and if he is accepted he will comeback for a fifth year without the rest of his senior class. 
"It will be very exciting," said Zurcher. "But I have spent the last four years playing along side these guys. I can't imagine taking the court without these guys beside me. Hopefully that will be overshadowed and we can keep up at a level that these guys have set" 
Looking back. Zurcher sees the team's togetherness as they main ingredient for their suc­cess. 
"I don't think anyone would have guessed we would achieve what we have. But that's been one of the reasons for our suc­cess, the fact that we're such a close-knit team." 
Will Forsyth may be the highest ranked player in the class, but he is the only one not to have a four-year career at Notre Dame, having transferred when Trinity dropped their tennis program. He recalls the time before he joined the Notre Dame program. 
"I pretty much knew the guys on the team. but I remember watching them when I played at a tournament in Texas they were at I remember seeing the comraderie of the Notre Dame team. They were all in the same class. had similar personalities, and were really behind each other." 
Now, after spending the last three seasons with that same team he once watched, Forsyth appreciates them as much as anyone. 
"I couldn't ask for a better situation-these guys are my best friends, as well as my teammates. I'll never forget these two-and-a-half years." 
Have a Safe and Hoppy Easter 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Are you flying home to Florida after ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE ­the semester? Give yourself. your baby and us a If so, we might be willing to buy your brighter futurel We are a loving, return ticket from you secure, Catholic, Caucasian couple. I need 2 return flights from Tampa Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616) or Sarasota to South Bend or 629-9037 Chicago on May 23 Call me before you make reservations 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 If you've already made reservations, in LaFortune Student Center call if your return flight is QUALITY COPIES changeable or you happen to have as low as 3e each made them for May 23 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Rich, 631-5370 
Happy 21st Birthday Metzll One way airline ticket from or shall I say Happy Birthday 
S. Bend to Seattle, May 17th. KERMI?I? $200.00 or best offer . Mary 631-5194 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
HelpiHeipiHeipl J need grad tickets! THIS IS YOUR lAST CHANCE TO If you have extra call Joe @ 277-CALL IF YOU ARE INTERESTED 4273. IN REFFING BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL I have a huge family & they all CALL 289-2683 helped pay lor ND. Please! I need ASK FOR PATRICK COLEMAN extra grad tixll Deanna @2476 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
PLEASE Ill BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Need Grad Tix 
clips. If found, please call Matta\273·2518  3-5 PERSON FURNISHED  
50,000,000 Babies  HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM,  
WANTED  PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA  WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL, PRIME LOCATION.  
HIRING DRIVERS PART TIME  233·9947.  
SUMMER JOBS  THROUGH FINALS WEEK  
...  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR lAKE PLACID  VERY FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES AVERAGES $8/hr and up Call 271·1177 or stop by 54533 Terrace Lane  Female '92 grad looking lor roommate(s) in Chgo area. Prefer western suburbs. Open to ideas. Monica 708-961-3533 wk: 708·  
CALL 1-800·786-8373.  I  850·4333  
Interested in extra $$$ -need  
to SUBLEASE your house/apt for SUMMER:3-5 people,pret near campus-call Samx4842 Driver needed in May to Hartford CT area, our car, expenses paid, insured. Call Mr. Bishop 1-324-4898  student to gather and xerox articles In library. Call Jack a\273-2123. I desperately need a ride to ST. LOUIS tomorrow lor Easter Break. Will pay lor gas and tolls. Please call Tim at1422.  IMMEDIATE occupancy , 1 bdrm apt incL walk thru bath and closet, garage, washer and dryer. 273-9392 SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. GREAT RATESI AVAIL.  
NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306  


Brian 273-0967 One room at the Marriott available lor Sat nile, May 15. Call Brian x1069. 


PERSONAL 

Selling: GT timberline min. Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal bk w/ upgrades. less than Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological yr old. $350 or b/o call jon Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 


Lather
t info X2924 46615, or call Pager #282·7042. 

MAC SE/20 w/ lmagewritter II $2 OFF OUR ALREADY $850 OBO Caii27H507 LOW-PRICED DINNERS EVERY WEDNESDAY MOVING OFF-CAMPUS???? AT 

Rinse 

DESK AND DRAWERS for sale for THE PASTA CAFE sale lor sale lor sale 1636 N. IRONWOOD GOOD CONDITION and inexpensive 271-1443 Steve Are you interested in living in 

DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See 


Repeat
Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon 
TICKETS @ 271-1938. 



19 Senior Profiles 93 

The Medford, Or., native has never looked back since transferring during his sophomore season. He is currently the 15th-ranked singles player in the nation, and is ranked eighth in doubles with Chuck Coleman. Forsyth has gone 27-14 at the top singles spot this year while continually playing against the top players on the nation's most difficult schedule, and owns a 71-40 career singles record. 


The highlight of the year was his upset of the number-one ranked singles player in the nation, Mississippi State's Daniel Courcol, during the Irish's semifinal victory at the Blue-Gray National Classic, the most prestigious regular­season tournament in collegiate tennis. 
An outstanding student (3.50 GPA) who has been nominated for a Rhodes Scholarship, Forsyth will most likely try his hand on the pro circuit next year. 
"I still have to remind mysel sometimes that I can play with these top guys," said the unassuming history major, "I'm really surprised by as well as I've done. I owe a lot to my teammates and coaches. Coach Bayliss is always behind you 100%." 
Ron Rosas 
No. 4 singles and No. 2 doubles 
Boasts an impressive 98-50 career singles record, and is 20-14 in career doubles play. He won three matches for the Irish last year at the NCAA Championships. and went 22-8 in singles 
ill play during his junior year. 
At the NCAAs, Rosas picked up wins against USC, Georgia, and Miss. St. A three-time all-Midwestern Collegiate Conference performer, the 6-5 Rosas has a powerful ground game and an 
Best Selection -Best Service 
TREK.usAIJmocEsronE '{ 
SPffWJZEil. 


603 N. Second St. 
,

BIKE. Nlles, MI 49120 

SPECIALtSfS(616) 683,3100 
FORMER [F)£[m@§@~lm RESIDENTS INVITED TO PIZZA SUPPER AT 

BRUNO'S 
THURSDAY, APRIL 15 7:00P.M. 
Call Woody, 4-3502 for additional information 

FLORALCO. 

YOfl MISS THEM > Inc. ON EASTER 
.., _ . _ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend ~.-232-3354 
Mary B. Green 
Come in and Browse 
' 
Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
Chuck 



Coleman 
No. 2 singles and No. 1 doubles 
A two-time All­American. Coleman starred on the num-;j. her-one ranked doubles team in the nation with David Dilucia for two years, and boasts a 63-35 career doubles record. 

He now teams with Forsyth to produce the eighth-ranked doubles tandem, and has gone 14-5 in dual match play this year. 
Coleman owns a remarkable 117-56 career singles record, and has upset numerous ranked players this season. He is currently ranked 42nd in the nation in singles, and has won 9 out o his last 11 matches, including an upset win over LSU's 32nd-ranked Juba Pesola. He also went undefeated in four matches during the Irish's win at the Blue-Gray. 
The accounting major will likely attend law school next year. 
"I set personal goals coming in-to play relatively high up in the lineup, and do my best," said the Lake Wylie, Sc., native, "We all wanted to come in here and make an impact. And we know we had the talent to put it all together." 
intimidating serve. He has advanced to the finals of the B flight singles at the 
Tom Fallon/Notre Dame Invitational , and the quarter finals of the Kentucky Fall Invitational. 
Rosas also turned in an excellent performance at the Blue-Gray, as he won three out of four singles matches, and blasted LSU's Alex Guevara at four­singles for only the second Irish win in the match. 
The El Paso, Tx., native is a finance major and also boasts a over a 3.0 average. 
"It's been a great experience," said Rosas of his career, "This was the best place for me. You usually select a school on who you will be surrounded by, and I knew Mark and Andy from junior tennis. 
"It's really been phenomenal." 
Andy Zurcher 
The team captain, Zurcher was the highest ranked returning player coming into this year, but has been sidelined for the entire dual match 
season after tearing a wrist tendon during a Christmas tourna­ment. 
Zurcher was planning on returning for the Blue-Gray Classic, until he reinjured the wrist 

during his comeback. 

He will most likely be returning for the Irish and coach Bob Bayliss to be a team leader for next year's young squad. He boasts a 3.611 GPA and hopes to study in the MBA program next year. ; 
He was ranked 19th coming into the season, and thrived at two-singles last year with a 30-14 overall record. He also boasts a career 96-41 singles record, and is the most improved member of the senior class. 
"Andy was by far the weakest player coming in," noted Bayliss, "And he has improved here more than any of them." 
"I don't think we were the second best team last year at the NCAA's," said Zurcher, "But we accomplished what we did because we were the best team at working together." 

It's a wonder that 
this senior has put together his remark­able 51-18 career singles and 37-19 career doubles record, what with his pre-med major and recent marriage. 


"I'd like to thank Ann r ;'ii;, for all she's done," said the Haddonfield, NJ., native. 
She has a lot to be proud of, as Wojtalik has posted a 16-10 singles record this year, and will be counted upon to come up with wins with Rosas at 




~UtlloRs 
01<}\"i••• t-10~ 'IJIIM 7 Plan for 
GRADUATE SCHOOL! 
COMB TO Tllfi WORKSHOP 


WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7 4:15 -5:45pm 


DOOLEY ROOM/LAFORTUNE 
• 
Strategies in selecting and applying to graduate schools

• 
Graduate Record Exam information

• 
Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships 


--

Mark Schmidt 
No. 3 singles and No. 2 doubles 
The Atlanta, Ga., native has put up astounding numbers in compiling a 108­43 career singles record. He has gone 28-10 this year in singles and went 20-8 last season. He is cur­rently ranked 45th in the country, and, like Coleman, he went undefeated at the 
JJ

Blue-Gray Classic. 
Lately he has been playing with junior Todd Wilson in doubles, posting a 5-3 mark against ranked competition. Schmidt fought off a severe ankle injury last season, and rebounded to go 8-4 in doubles play. 
Schmidt also collected a win in the Irish's upset of Georgia in the quarterfinals of the NCAA Championship. 
Another 3.50+ student on the Irish squad, Schmidt has already accepted a position with the Arthur Andersen accounting firm. , 
"In high school, I was among the top 30 players, but as my career progressed I realized that collegiate tennis is much more competitive than high school, and I didn't think I'd ever be nationally ranked," said Schmidt, "But this year has turned out better than expected." 
three-doubles in this year's NCAAs. 
Wojtalik burst on to the scene last year at the National Team Indoor Championship, winning matches against powerhouses Florida and LSU, and went 13-4 in doubles last year. 
He also went 18-6 in singles play last year, posting an 11-5 mark in dual match competition. 
A 3.0 student. Wojtalik will probably attend medical school in the future. 
"I never thought I would be a top-six player for a top-ten school." said Wojtalik, "And don't think the other people that recruited me ever thought I would be a top-six player at a top-ten school, and I would attribute all that to Coach Bayliss." 
"He's a terrific athlete," noted Bayliss, "It's been easy to work with him." 
.. 
The Notre Dame water polo team travelled to Eastern Michigan this weekend with high expectations due to their previous tournament victory February 19 at the first Mid­American Water Polo Confer­ence. Their rejuvenated spirit was sparked by the confidence of their newly-elected captains, Donald Balhoff, Chris O'Hara, and Eric Schultz. 
As tournament play began, however, the Irish found them­selves either playing down to the level of the other teams or being outplayed by superior competition, giving them a 1-2 tournament record and a dis­appointing third place finish. 
"It was discouraging because we felt like we should have placed second," commented freshman Walter Morrissey, who had one goal over the course of the tournament. "We ·ust couldn't put it together as a team." 
North Coast Water Polo Club, a local men's club team consisting of graduated, former college players, won the tournament, beating host Eastern Michigan in the championship game. Notre Dame beat Bowling Green University in the third place game to complete the standings. 
In their first game against Eastern Michigan, the Irish played well in the first half, trailing by only a goal at half­time. Their offense stalled, however, as Notre Dame could only muster up one goal in the second half. They scored in tho fourth quarter, which brought Eastern Michigan's lead down to one. but a fluke shot late in the game put the game out of reach, as the Irish lost 7-5. Newcomer Will McCarthy led the team offensively in his first water polo game of the season, supported aJso by Schultz and O'Hara. 
In their second game against North Coast, the team played aggressively, but could not match up against their size and skill, losing 13-3. Jason New­land led the Irish in scoring in the game. 
"We were physically over­matched," said Schultz. "Their water polo experience really overshadowed our efforts." 
Notre Dame came alive in their finaJ match against Bowl­ing Green, winning 11-8. Tied 2·2 after the first quarter, the Irish stopped their offensive surge behind strong defensive play by Joe Slankas and senior player/coach Tony Boczkowski, who played in his last game in a Notre Dame uniform, and orchestrated a strong counter­attack, compiling three unan­swered goals to give them­selves a comfortable lead. 
"We turned up the intensity level in the second quarter and forced Bowling Green to make mistakes," said Slankas . 
Notre Dame will finish their season next weekend, as they wlll travel to DeKalb, IL, to 

The Observer Wednesday, April 7, 1993 

MSU spoils men's volleyball season finale 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
The scene had been set a year ago at East Lansing, when Michigan State's Audley Becker derided Notre Dame's men's volleyball team as "not that good." 
Fuel was added to the fire this season, when the Irish fell twice to the Spartans, 3-1 both times, in hotly contested battles. 
Finally, the Irish met the Spartans in their last regular season match on Sunday after­noon in the Thunderpit. It was hailed as the match of the sea­son, a match the team had looked forward to all season. 
However, the Irish were de­nied once again, falling in three straight to the Spartans (15-10, 15-10, 15-13} despite playing some excellent volleyball, to bring their record to 18-5. 
Michigan State, who came into the match ranked No. 3 in the Midwest, was led by Big Ten MVP Josh Slodki, who was all over the court throughout the entire match. 
In game one, Slodki had three aces, two kills and a block to lead the Spartans to a com­manding 8-4 lead. After Irish coach Jen Slosar called timeout, the barrage continued, with Slodki continuing to pound balls to the floor, before Slosar called another timeout with MSU leading 13-5. 
The Irish regrouped immedi­ately. MSU dug two spike at­tempts before Pat Madden put the third attempt away. The Spartans briefly lost their com­posure and allowed the Irish to get within three at 13-10. 
However, the Spartans' Mark Gallagher combined for a block and spiked another ball to give MSU the serve for the game. Michigan State's Daniel Habeck then spiked a ball that Irish middle blocker Brian Ceponis couldn't get to, and the Spar­tans had the match convinc­ingly, 15-10. 
Notre Dame's misfortunes continued in the early moments of game two as they fell behind 3-0. But the Irish fought back, their comeback culminating when two thunderous spikes by Slodki were turned back, first by Ceponis, then by setter Won Suh, who would set Leo Casas up for a soft little tip shot to give the Irish a 5-3 lead. 
The Irish scrapped and hus­tled throughout the game. One such sequence was when set­ter/assistant coach Dan Ka­vanaugh dove out of bounds to save a ball, starting a play that ended with one of Ceponis' many key spikes. 
Unfortunately, hustle was not enough, as a few mistakes by the Irish and a few kills by Slodki gave the Spartans a 13-7 lead. The Irish made a valiant comeback attempt to 13-9. 

Love, 

Fong and Susan 
The comeback was killed, however, when Ceponis un­leashed one of the hardest spikes of the season-a spike that was turned back by Slodki and David Wheeler. The match would end with an Irish over­pass that was dumped to the floor, ending the game at 15-10. 
With their backs to the wall, the Irish came out like a house aflame in game three. Leo Casas and Tom Kovats com­bined for three kills to take the Irish to a 6-0 lead. But the story would not change, as Slodki had three kills to help the Spar­tans to within one, 7-6. The Spartans were assisted by freshman Andrew Martz, who had a kill and an ace in his first few serves of the match during game three. 
After a timeout. Ceponis kicked off with a rocket spike that would not be denied. Four Spartan mistakes took the Irish to an 11-7 lead. But the Spar­tans climbed back once again to take a 12-11 lead before a spike by Miguel Ascencio gave the Irish the serve. 
Both teams battled back and forth with the score tied at 13. Slodki spiked to get the serve, and the Irish blocked a ball out of bounds, giving Michigan State match point. However, Ascencio came through with a saving spike. Slodki again spiked for the serve, but Cepo­nis got it back with yet another kill. 

That kill, unfortunately, was Ceponis' last of the day, as MSU's Matthew Erickson put down a spike that Kovats just couldn't handle, and the Irish went down 15-13. 
After the match, the Irish were drained and disappointed with the loss, but generally pleased with their performance. 
"There were so many emo­tions going on out there, " said Slosar. "Michigan State is a great team and they came out and proved it, but we still played well." 
"With this being the seniors' last game and everybody com­ing out to see it, we really wanted a win. But we can hold our heads high... this team has a lot of potential for Nationals." 
Michigan State's coach Sante Perelli had nothing but praise for the Irish. 
"They played great side-out volleyball, something they hadn't done early in the season. With a couple more defensive stops, they would have been even closer than they were, They're an excellent club with some great athletes." 
Perelli also praised Ceponis as "awesome," but couldn't leave out his own star, Slodki. 
"He's definitely our go-to guy... when he gets in a groove, like he was today, he's tough to stop." 

683-1959. (After 5-684-0285) 





Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Apartments Available at 

$250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 

• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 

• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping 

• 
Fenced Parking 


Come see the changes we have maile. You won't be disappointed! 
For more info call: 
232-8258 

---~ ---.-------~---~--~~-----------­
-----~ 


Today 
Wednesday, April7,1993 page 11 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
MISS 'IES, 
M'i G't.Nt..RI\1101\\ tx::Jt.SI\\T ABSOR& AT LEf<S'f OIJR TEL£.\l\5\0NS 
WORMWOOD:> CAL\1\N :> 
I~F()RI'<\1\TION \HIS Wr..'{. CO\JLD \JNI>ERS\f<NO \JS. 
lD

\ 
"----­



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 "-tale's best 65 Vulcan's ...": Shak. workshop
1 Permits 37 Boob tubes &&Stood 
5 The Pentateuch 
38 Sporting a new 67 Conceit 10 Resort near decor 66 Canadian Venice 39 Stanza figure-skating 14 Sheltered at sea 41 Book of rites champ 69 Makes a lap
15 Gluck product 42 Doting 16 Plunder 
43From-Z 44 Lewis's

17-=3 DOWN
Timberlane20 Parisian's 45-=4 1 Type of beam pewter 48 Grieg's "-2 Choice 

21-de 
Death" 3 Eisenhower was Queiroz, 49 Shiny fabric one, by birthPortuguese 54 Clipped 4 Chair, to Ciano novelist sa Comedian sMazel­22 Pointless 
Skelton (congratula­23 Diva Scotto 
60 Drummer Starr lions) 25 Goya's duchess 61-= 1 6 Ron Howard TV 


Give A 
27-=5 64 Pure and simple role 7 Porters 8"... we-on our last cruise": 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
R.L.S. 90wned 

Hoot!
10 Pool, in Wales 33 Kind of prof. 51 Postscript of a 56 Grimm 34 Fret 
sort character 52 Discharge 57 Ostrich's kin 53 Canonical 59 Beach sight 35 Cartoonist Peter 
36 "Let George -!" 62 Former Chinese 

hours 54 Half: Prefix leader
40 Flexible 55 Made haste 63 Patriotic gp. 
41 Memorable 

Giant 43 Nods 46 More uncanny Get answers to any three clues 

Pollute! 
47 Bireme features by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 32 Electrical units 50 Stadium areas 5656 (75¢ each minute). 








E'RE OPEN TONIGHT 
9,2 
Must Be 21 
THE 
zc
n ~~ -s:
Oz 
r­JJ_ c 
1111 



Sports 
page 12 Wednesday, April 7, 1993 
Storied senior class set for home finale 
Irish look to solidify NCAA hopes today against Michigan 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Today's match against the Wolverines may close the book on the home career of Notre Dame's most successful senior class, but it is also a pivotal match up of Midwest powers. 
The Irish have already de­feated the top two teams in the Midwest in 20th-ranked Min­nesota and Michigan State, and a win in today's match will likely clinch the Midwest's au­tomatic bid. 
The eighth-ranked Irish may not need the automatic bid, but it does ensure a spot in the Big Show. All Irish fans know that all Notre Dame needs is a place in the tournament, and with such a strong senior class they might make the same type of run to the NCAA finals as they made last year. 
Though the Irish look to be prohibitive favorites against the unranked Wolverines, today's match draws comparisons to last year's home finale for Irish three-time All-American David DiLucia. In that match, the Ball State Cardinals looked to spoil DiLucia's last match in front of a boisterous home crowd and they nearly pulled it off. 
DiLucia was pushed to match point against 19th-ranked Dan Kronauge, but rallied behind the crowd and pulled out a tearful 2-6, 7-5, 6-2 victory. 
Irish head coach Bob Bayliss hopes that this year's seniors can go out at home with the same type of flair. 
"I certainly hope that they can finish up at home on a good note," said Bayliss. 
In their last match, the Irish dropped a 5-2 decision to sixth­ranked LSU in Baton Rouge, as they lost all three doubles matches and four out of the six singles matches. 
Today the Irish will likely go with a doubles lineup of eighth­ranked Chuck Coleman and Will Forsyth, Mark Schmidt and Todd Wilson, and Ron Rosas and Chris Wojtalik. 
"We still haven't got the doubles teams down," noted Bayliss, "But I guess we have until May 14 (The NCAAs)." 


By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team (10-8) missed some op­portunities and dropped the home opener 11-4 to Illinois last night at Coveleski Stadium. 
The Irish loaded the bases twice in the game in the third and the eighth and had two runners in scoring position in the fifth, but scored only one run in those innings. 
For Illinois, the game raised their record to 18-9 and ac­cording to head coach Itch Jones, the lllini were fortunate to come away with the win. 
"lt was a good game for us," said Jones. "We hit the ball well and hit line drives that fell. They hit a few line drives hard with runners on base that were caught." 
Illinois' Tom Sinak almost single-handedly defeated the Irish with two home runs in the game off Notre Dame starter Chris Michalak. 
"I had faced the lefty (Michalak) in summer league this summer so I knew how he pitches," said Sinak. 
Although the 7-4 deficit the Irish faced heading into the ninth inning was heatable, Forry Wells, Illinois' left-fielder, put the game out of reach in the top of the ninth with a grand slam off Irish reliever AI Walania to increase the Illini lead to seven runs for the final score. 
The Illini jumped out to an 

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
A number-six national ranking, a trip to the NCAA Championship finals, and 736 career singles and doubles victories. These are just a few of the accomplishments that will ensure a place in the storied. annals of Notre Dame athletics for arguably the greatest senior class in the history of Notre Dame men's tennis. 
But Will Forsyth, Chuck Coleman, Mark Schmidt, Andy Zurcher, Ron Rosas, and Chris Wojtalik will leave a legacy that goes far beyond rankings and wins, as their careers have co­incided with the remarkable ascension of the tennis program from a regional program into a 

Illinois spoils Notre Dame's home opener 

The Observer/Sean Faman Illinois pitcher Jason Wollard gave up four runs in six innings of work against the Irish in Tuesday's home opener. 
ealily lead in the game on Si-make the score 4-1. mak's solo homer in the second The Irish tied things up in the inning and then scored three sixth inning. Craig DeSensi runs on four hits in the third. started things off with a solo Notre Dame started chipping home run which Bob Lisanti away in the bottom of that in-followed with a triple that ning when Eric Danapilis was landed deep in left center field. hit by a Jason Wollard pitch to Birk walked and stole second to bring Robbie Birk home and set up Rowan Richard's single 
CLUB SPORTS Updates on the water polo and men's volleyball teams 

CLUB 
see page 10 Sports 

OQJ~D!IDrn SPORTS 

MEN'S TENNIS Profiles on each of the members of the senior class 
see page 9 

national powerhouse. 
The rise of the Notre Dame men's tennis program might have started with the arrival of three-time All-American David DiLucia, but it was this class that made up the core of of last year's NCAA championship finalists, and it is this class that has brought the program to where it is today. 
Irish head coach Bob Bayliss has seen his most successful class evolve from wide-eyed freshmen into team leaders and national contenders in the four years they have represented Notre Dame. 
"I really thought they would all become solid collegiate players," noted Bayliss, "But these guys have exceeded the realistic expectations we 
had at that time. 

which drove in two runs. 
The tie didn't last long as the Illini went ahead 6-4 in the seventh on Sinak's second rou.nd tripper of the day, this one also bringing home Thompson. It was the second time this year the sophomore has hit two home runs in a game. Illinois picked up another run in the eighth when Dave Wohlwend drove in Ken Crawford. 
The Irish made some noise in the eighth loading the bases with Ryan Topham, Lisanti and Matt Haas, but couldn't get a run across the plate. 
"We didn't execute very well and we had a few line drives caught," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "I really thought we'd win the ball game. We're trying too hard and our expectations are too high ... We just haven't gelled yet." 
Michalak (4-2) took the loss for the Irish after going seven innings and giving up six runs on 12 hits with seven strikeouts while reliever Matt Sander (3-2) notched the win shutting o,l,lt the Irish on three hits in a two inning performance. Illindls starter Wollard went five in­nings and gave up four runs on six hits, but left the game while it was tied. Matt Arrandale got the save. 
Notre Dame faces Purdue to­day in a 3 p.m. game in West Lafeyette, Ind.. The Boilermak­ers lead the Big Ten and should challenge the Irish. 
S . 
see emors page 


oo sore Basketball field dwindling 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Bookstore Basketball XXJI narrows its field to 256 teams today as it plays the final forty games of the round of 512. Having already shrunk from 641 teams during the prelimi­nary round, the tourney will take a five day break over Easter and resume play on Tuesday, April13. 
The first round of sectional play, which began last Satur­day, saw the defeat of a seeded team and the near upset of an­other. Shamma-Lamma-Ding­Dong, who finished in the round of 32 last year and was ranked in the second 16 of the 32 seeded teams this year, fell to Quigley 21-18 on Sunday. 
"They were outplayed from start to finish," said Assistant Commissioner Bob Sullivan. Four Guys· & Tim Frank, who were also seeded in the second 16, narrowly escaped a first round ·upset of their own yes­terday when they slid past AIYA, 21-19. 
Most of the seeded teams, however, breezed through their first round competition. Salubrious & Callypigous, the second seed in their sectional. were paced to a 21-6 victory by a twelve point performance from Irish basketball walk-on Sean Ryan. Salubrious & Callypigous will 
see Bookstore page 8 
SMC 

Natalie Kloepfer responds to changes for the Belles' s t~ 
..._,/

tennis team see page 8 








