
Wednesday, October 20, 1993• Vol. XXVI No. 38 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE OAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Kirk responds to Colloquy 2000 
By KATE CRISHAM News Writer 
Assistant Vice President of Residence Life William Kirk addressed student questions in response to the Colloquy 2000 at last night's Hall President's Council meeting. 
HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL 
"This document is a self-study of the University." said Kirk. "It shows the long term goals, hopes. plans and dreams of the University." 
Student questions primarily focused on Recommendations 25 and 26, which call for in­creased 24-hour space both on campus and in residence halls. 
"As we make renovations in residence halls, we hope to make a special effort at improving 24­hour space," said Kirk. "Increased social space will hopefully help improve male-female rela­tions." 
Several students expressed concern over whether students would have any input into the various changes proposed by the Colloquy. HPC Co-Chair Chris Canzoniero remarked that "as a whole, HPC was pleased with the recommenda-. tions made by the Colloquy. However, we don't 


The Observer/Erika Quinn 
see HPC 1page 4 Pangborn Hall resident senior Raquel Alviar works on a sculpture for her ceramics class held in the Riley Hall of Art. 
Senate rejects bid to limit Presidential use of troops Republican effort poses challenge to Clinton's leadership capabilities 
By DONNA CASSATA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton fended off a challenge to his powers as com­mander-in-chief Tuesday night as the Senate rejected a Republican effort to bar U.S. troops from serving under a foreign commander. 
By a vote of 65-33, the Senate turned aside a measure that would have prohibited spending defense dollars on any United Nations operation in which U.S. soldiers were under the com­mand of a foreign officer. 
Instead, lawmakers voted 

overwhelmingly for a non-bind­ing resolution calling on the president to consult with Congress before placing any troops under foreign command and asking for a report within 48 hours. 
It adopted, 96-2, a measure stating the sense of the Senate that U.S. troops "must be under operational control of qualified commanders; and must have clear, effective and robust com­mand and control' ar­rangements; appropriate rules of engagement; and clear and unambiguous mission state­ments." 
Sponsoring this measure 
were Sens. Wan Nunn, D-Wa., and John Warner, R-Va. Sens, Malcolm Wallop, R-Wyo. and Charles Grassley. R-Iowa, were the only opponents. 
The action,. while a triumph for Clinton, was a prelude to a sterner challenge to his war­making powers expected later in the week by Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole. R-Kan. 
The White House continued to negotiate with Dole on mea­sures requiring prior congres­sional authorization for the use of the military in Haiti and Bosnia. 
Congressional dissatisfaction with the administration's for-



ND names honorary alumnus 
Special to the Observer 
Thomas Mason, vice presi­dent for business affairs at the University of Notre Dame, has been named an honorary alum­nus of the University by the national board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Mason is only the 14th person to be accorded the honor. 
In honoring Mason, the alumni board cited "his pru­dent management of Notre Dame's financial resources and his commitment to cre­ating a stable and produc­tive workforce." 
Reporting to University Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp, Mason exercises overall con­trol of Notre Dame's fiscal affairs, including the annual operating budget that now exceeds $327 million; the endowment of more than $800 million, 16th largest in American higher education; student financial aid disburse­ments approaching $50 million and the annual construction Prior to joining the executive budget of $10-20 million. ranks at Notre Dame, Mason 
Since Mason's election by the served at the University of Board of Trustees in 1976, Michigan for 10 years in vari­Notre Dame has had 17 con­ous financial positions, includ­secutive "in the black" budgets, ing director of financial affairs 
of the university's hospital. A certified public accoun­tant, Mason received his undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees from the University of Detroit. He taught accounting there, as well as at Eastern Michigan University, and has contin­ued to teach at Notre Dame. 
Mason is a director of the National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO), higher education's foremost organization of business and 
finance administrators. He 
is also a member of the boards of WNIT-TV. the South Bend Center for the 
Homeless and Guest House, a nonprofit health organization providing treatment to Catholics suffering from alcohol and drug dependence. ·..···•··· ... · ·. · .··•·• 
· .· ·· OIJ!ll!rverfile hot~ 
Honorary Alumnus Thomas Mason P 
has remained virtually debt­free and is one of only nine uni­versities in the nation with a AAA credit rating from Moody's Investors Service. 
eign policymaking has fueled Senate efforts to curb the presi­dent's power. 
"I think the administration has been given a warning light," Nunn said of the debate and subsequent votes. 
Meanwhile, the U.S. Navy said it stopped and boarded a Belizian ship off the coast of Haiti on Tuesday afternoon, the first such action since the reim­position of the oil and weapons embargo against Haiti at mid­night Monday. 
The master of the boarded ship, who said he was carrying cement, cooperated with the Navy and was allowed to pro-
By PATTI CARSON News Writer 
Upon further review of last week's proposal for the Saint Mary's Christian Service Cen­ter, the Board of Governance {BOG} concluded that further research is still needed before full implementation of the pro­gram occurs. said Student Body President eth Wilkinson. 
"The purpose of the center is to provide a place to coordinate service activities on campus and to improve relations be­tween students and the Sisters of the Holy Cross," said BOG member Melissa Whelan. 
The proposal included plans for employing a director, a fac­ulty coordinator, student plan­ners and speakers. 

S.U.R.V. (Spes Unica Resource & Volunteer Center) may even­tually become part of SMCSC in ceed to the Turks and Caicos Islands, officials reported. 
The Senate spent much of the past two days debating the president's right to place U.S. troops under the control of for­eign commanders, with the arguments crossing party lines. 
"I don't see how you can prospectively tell the comman­der in chief what he can do with armed forces," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. 
Nunn, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said, "We ought to say, 'Mr. President, slow down, slow down. We don't think you've thought through this."' 
SMCSC proposal to be debated at future forUm 

an attempt to best accommo­date students' desires to serve the community, according to 
S.U.R.V. President Kristin Johnson. 
"At this point, BOG strongly supports the proposal and be­lieves there is a need for SM­CSC," said Wilkinson. 
BOG members will meet with Saint Mary's College President William Hickey and Vice Presi­dent and Dean of Faculty Dorothy Feigl to discuss plans regarding SMCSC on Nov. 9. 
A forum, which will include a question and answer panel, will then be held to discuss the pro­posal for SMCSC on Nov. 16 at 7 
p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium. Students and administrators are encouraged to attend.. 
In other business: 

•BOG also voted in favor of a petition for the partial funding of the Student Alumnae Asso­ciation's student directory. The directory was passed out during the Founder's Day Festivities. 


• ' i ' 
'I 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

The preseason verdict might 
be incorrect 
The jury of Irish fans had-------1 decided: this was supposed "'' to be the year. 
The city breathed a sigh of relief when we handed down the decision. We broke the deadlock as soon as the backfield bolted, and three one-time Heisman candidates left town in one day, on their way to Rolando do Aguiar the NFL. Viewpoint Editor 
That was all the evi­dence we needed, wasn't it? Even Lou Holtz could see the future, when he looked closely at his magical golden helmet during the preseason ritual: Notre Dame would go no better than 7-4 this year, and maybe earn a trip to the Holiday Bowl, to try to avenge the Provo Massacre. 
Finally, the Irish wouldn't be very good. They'd beat Navy and Purdue.But there was no pressure. No hope for a national championship. 
The 1993 offense would stink, wouldn't it? No more Rick Mirer, Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks in the backfield. No more Irv Smith, dragging tacklers across the field. Even if they could score touchdowns, there would be no more extra points. Craig Hentrich had screwed up any chance to recruit a quality kicker when he'd introduced Scott Bentley to Notre Dame's social life. 
There was no way that this team, led by a quarterback who plays more like Tony Eason than Tony Rice, would score 40 points a game. Was there? 
They might give .up 40, we thought. The two best defensive players from 1992 were in the NFL, and the seniors hadn't shown much of anything during their first three years, looking more like the Nylon than the Steel Curtain. 
Stanford would score 50, and teams like Boston College and Michigan State would have a chance this year, wouldn't they? 
We thought so. We hoped so. 
Because if Notre Dame stunk like a muddy January locker room, then the football season, and the entire first semester, might be fun. Irish fans would enjoy life, instead of thought­fully considering, at every possible moment, the combinations of wins, losses, ties and assassi­nations that might add up to a national champi­onship for Notre Dame. 
Alas, that's what this fall has become. Even the amateur fans have decided that nothing matters more than ND vs. FSU. The tension is already building, and tickets are selling for a grand. 
One biology grad student is considering the optimal date to release that virus in Tallahassee, while others are worriedly con­vinced that the Irish won't make it to Nov. 23 unscathed unless Kevin McDougal learns to concentrate on cupcakes like Navy, and really bake them well. 
But why worry? The players need to do their 
thing {play hard}, and the fans need to do theirs 
(cheer and have fun). There's no sense in mak­
ing it hard on ourselves, in groaning about 
Auburn being undefeated, in crying every time 
Ron Powlus breaks a collarbone. 
Football will always be important on this campus and people will always think of Notre Dame as a football school. Whether the verdict was right or wrong, whether the Irish win the national championship or not.. .it just doesn't matter. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Suzy Fry Production Corrine Doran Allison Ebel Spons Vivian Gembara Rian Akey Karhie Young 
Viewpoint Accent Michael O'Hara Bevin Kovalik Jason Thomas Graphics 
Lab Tech Brendan Regan 
T.J. Harris 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Somalia situation changing face of mission I I 
I Top weekend I
MOGADISHU along with the U.S. reinforcements that 

movies

The worst seemed to be over for have been trickling in. I I 
October 15·17

Somalia in May, with starvation virtual­Rocks once were among the biggest I I 
grosses nationwide

ly ended and Mogadishu's streets safer threats for foreign troops. Now they 
I I
than they had been for nearly four face remote-controlled land mines, years. rocket-propelled grenades, and heavy­1 "Demo/it Today, the United Nations and the caliber machine guns. There are $70.3 milt;~~n Man" United States find themselves looking rumors of even heavier weaponry. 2 '"T'L ..
•ue Be~~;]""·····-·;·-.-. .... __ .
for a way out of the tangled mess that 

$9.5 mi/lio Y Hillbillies" 
was supposed to be a blueprint for Gen. Mohamed Farrah Aidid had 
3 ,;··-···-····...-...._~

future UN peacekeeping operations. seen his influence steadily erode fol­CooJ Ru ··-~·-···-···-....... June 5, a month and a day after the lowing the arrival of foreign troops, but 
. .~7.o millionlliUngs,,

UN took control of Operation Restore he appears to have won the tactical 4 ;;·· ..... ········-......___ Hope from the United States, was the fight for now. One of the country's top 'Malice•· ···-...-. -. turning point. Twenty-four Pakistani warlords, he was blamed for the "··---.... $5sm·,.
· '"'on

troops were killed in coordinated am­Pakistani massacre and ensuing at­5 ··j··d.. . "....bushes. tacks on UN troops. 
$4 u gment Ni~h~:·;-··· . 

Since then, the UN has found itself He is disliked by some of Somalia's .1 million drawn into an urban guerrilla war and other clans but has built a reputation a public relations quagmire that have among his people as a wronged free­stymied the agency's efforts at nation­dom fighter. The $25,000 UN bounty building. on his head seems a thing of the past, 
"This blueprint is very complex," UN and he is trying to force his way back special envoy Adm. Johnathan Howe onto the political scene. admitted last week. "It may have to be There's no accurate count of Somali redrawn in several ways." fatalities, but they are believed to be 
In May, Pakistani troops took over close to 1 ,000, according to UN military control of south Mogadishu after the officials. departure of most U.S. forces, UN casualties have been creeping patrolling the bustling streets in open upward; a few in a remote-controlled pickup trucks. mine blast here, a handful in a firefight 
Today, few military vehicles stray far there. Since the UN took over the oper­from UN strongpoints. They are wait­ation in May, 76 UN troops have died ing for the last of American tanks and and more than 200 have been wound­AP Bradley fighting vehicles to arrive, ed. 
Durant looking to return to US next week 
FORT CAMPBELL 
Army pilot Michael Durant could go home by the end of next week, depending on when surgeons pin his broken thighbone together and get the former Somali p~isoner on his feet, his doctor says. And a somber memonal ser­vice was held Monday in Monrovia, Calif., for Durant's co-pilot, 45-year-old Chief Warrant Officer Raymond Alex Frank of Pasadena, Calif. Frank was killed and Durant broke his leg, as well as his back and cheek, when their helicopter was shot down over Somalia on October 3. Eighteen Americans died in the battle. Durant was held captive for 11 days by faction leader Mohamed Farrah Aidid. 
Astronauts conduct medical experiments 
SPACE CENTER 
Columbia's astronauts today donated blood. saliva and urine samples as they began their first full day of medical experiments on the longest shuttle flight to date. The seven-member crew, including a doctor, a biochemist and a veterinarian, are serving as both investigators and test subjects on the 14-day mission to study how the human body adjusts to freedom from gravity. Shortly after being awakened by Mission Control yesterday, astronauts M. Rhea Seddon. David Wolf. Shannon Lucid and Martin Fettman resumed a test of protein metabo­lism that will continue throughout their voyage. By col­lecting the astronauts' body fluids, scientists will try to figure out why mammals tend to lose protein in weight­lessness. That breakdown leads to shriveled muscles, an effect that would hinder the possibility of long space trips if not counterbalanced. Crew members also kept close track of their body weight and everything they ate or drank to help researchers study changes in kidney func­tions and the flow of fluids within the body. They began the tests just hours after Monday's belated launch. 
Oklahoma fails effort to execute inmate 
MUSKOGEE 
Oklahoma failed in its bid to execute a twice-convicted killer, and now must decide whether it wants to keep him in its prison pending an appeal or send him to New York to serve a separate sentence. U.S. District Judge Frank Seay ruled Monday that Thomas Grasso, convicted of murder on both states, must serve twenty years to life in New York before Oklahoma can carry out its death sen­tence. "This man deserves the death penalty and I regret that he's not going to get it," Oklahoma Gov. David Walters said. 
National unemployment mirrors Indiana's 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Indiana is a good example of what's wrong with the current federal unemployment reporting system, a state official says. "We believe we have an excellent test case here for them to analyze," Stephen Sellers, director of 
. marketing and communications for the Indiana Department of Workforce Development, said Tuesday. "For the past four years Indiana's unemployment rate estimates have been consistently below the national aver­age; in the past few months, by about 1 percentage _POint, which is pretty good in comparison with what's gomg on in the country. In June and July we saw estimates 2.per­centage points below. While Indiana has been expenenc­ing job growth, we are not experiencing that rapid a jo~ growth to account for these two unemployment. rate esti­mate," Sellers said. Unemployment figures are Important tools, Seller said. "People use unemployment figures as economic indicators, businesses make decisions about communities using figures such as unemployment esti­mates, federal funding is affected by unemployment rat~ estimates. It's important they be reasonably accurate, he said. 

NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 20.
Wedneo;day, Oct. 20 Accu-Weather111 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' ' ' ' ' '' 
OHIO 
' 
Pressura ~ ~ r\ 
H L a &SJ [I!] 0 ~ Gil ~ ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H L Denver 48 40 New York 70 59 Atlanta 86 62 Houston 85 75 Palatine 61 54 Ba~tmore 70 56 Los Angeles 75 60 Paris 64 55 Boston 69 55 Miami 86 72 Reno 52 42 Chicago 63 38 Milwaukee 54 46 Seattle 61 43 Columbus 62 45 Minneapolis 63 49 Toronto 61 43 Dallas 85 62 New Orleans 87 63 Washington. D.C. 73 54 
Via Assodated Press GraphicsNet 01~3 Accu·Weather. Inc. 
Wednesday, October 20, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 
-t::rfH1ef steals NDrstUdent's 




:~ff~~kb0ok•'·£uy\~'~ickets.
'
li. 
~Staff Repon Wifii ., . . . 
A' person who stole a check­book from an off-campus st\1­dent has apparently been using 
SECURITY BRIEF 
the checks to buy student foot~ ball tickets, according to Chuck Hurley, director of Notre Dame Security. 
After one student reported the 
··'"'·· 

theft of his checkbook. Security received complaints from three 
·other students who were swin­dled by the person, Hurley said. The bad checks amounted to more than $200 each. 
Hurley warned that selling student football tickets is illegal, but he said students should ask for identification before accept­ing checks in general. 
.-A:l1~== .I;:Ji!! 
·s\te v ..
~C\u\ .f r tne ·''· . 
f'\\ e oture J0 . adoe --t...··. 
~ 





MJ • 'W\\ell)'o~·:c:e:d)' 
oe1\e d to e~t' t tr~\"
~ P 

d\{{etet\ att~ ··· 
ot Q ueat 
\ \et us tbC 0 u tO \ ...·. ·.·.····, ~\)est\ 
11• 

·~ ··•'r;~L~ ,,~~;h~;
"1 . fit... • ~ ~ . L Indiana
5

~ ~ \ J....." Reservations{\. (219) 288-1155 
0 

N.D./ S.M.C. I.D. : F.D. 
(:'1/otre Dame or St. Mary's College Identification Equals a Free Desen.) OFFER EXCLUDES FOOTBALL A."'D PARE:'IITS WEEKENDS 
Valid on Carry-Out Only 
1M um 2 Medium 
• The Observer/Erika Quinn 
I Gearing up for glee 
I Members of the Glee Club prepare for a group photo taken yesterday in front of the Grotto. The all-male _ singing group preforms every Saturday morning before home football games. 


I 'Calling' leads to purpose in life 
By JOSLIN WARREN People may not feel at ease "Abraham went out following News Wrt· ter using the word "calling," but a the call of God, but he had no calling from God is a reality in idea where it was going to lead 
Calling to a vocation is not life, she said. him," Keller stated. just about serving God but is By reading from the works of also about serving people, "Most of us know how very Max Weber and comparing the according to Rosemary Keller, hard it is to feel a sense of call-spiritual experiences of Jane 
academic dean and vice presi-ing in our every day lives," she Adams. the founder of Hull dent of academic affairs at the said. "People are very worried House, to those of Americans 
~~:~::~~::~~:~::::::~:~: ~fi:{~~;~:[~i~~~~fj} fFJI~[:~~·~y1~1h~J:ro;:r.::~ 
of calling has lost spiritual grounding," Keller said. "It can also be a call to serve hu­mankind. We're not just here on this earth for our salvation but also the salvation of oth· ers." 
valid on carry-Out or Delivery 2 Medium Specialty Pizzas 
1 Topping Pizza 2 Topping Pizzas + 
1 six-pack or 2-liter 
for only
$599 
$1Q99
Get up to 4 more pizzas for 


$1399
half the regular menu price 

I I I 14/93 


money." 
Although people are always yearning for something with purpose or a continually faith­ful life with God in the center, they are fearful of the conse­quences of this desire, she said. 


•' 
ne nge 
Order of Breadsticks with a Medium/Large Pizza Purchase 

Weber's idea of the "spirit problem" that plagues men and women is brought on by the fact that people simply have a need for something more than a money-making career, yet they don't acknowledge this need as a calling, Keller said. 
A calling to vocation ex­presses some deeper purpose of who we are, according to Keller who recounted her experience at the Duke University Chapel mass for their freshmen this fall. 
"Our prominent identity is that we are children of God, and our purpose is to lead lives worthy of calling," she said. 
The Notre Dame Theology Department is sponsoring a series of lectures entitled "Calling and Career: The Dilemma of Vocation in Sacred and Secular Contexts," is a part in the "Women in Religion" series. 

Maple Lane Barber Shop 
servmg the Notre Dame community for over 32 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin,s) 
272,6722 





1993-94 BE A PART OF IT! Notre Dame Men's Basketball 


Student Ticket Distribution JUNIORS/lAW/GRAD TODAY!! JACC Gate 10 8:00 -5:00 
I , . 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
Clinton vo"W"s to increase Tobacco ads ignite opposition 
Associated Press Miles of Philip Morris Co. running ads that portray smok­
"This was very much a strate­ing as cool.
breast cancer research 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Clinton pledged 

Monday that the govern­ment would work to pro­vide more breast cancer testing and e x p a n d research on the disease. 


"When  it  President  
comes  to  Clinton  
health  care  

research and delivery, women can no longer be treated as sec­ond-class citizens," he said at the White House as he signed a proclamation declaring yester­day as National Mammography Day. 
"It is important that that plan be fitted into a larger commit­ment to the health care of Americans, to put women's health concerns, from research 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
want it to end here. We want to make sure student input con­tinues with these important decisions." 
"The Campus Life Council is making many positive changes," replied Kirk. "The best way for students to get in­volved is through CLC." 
Kirk also addressed ques­tions about the rumored con­version of a male dorm into a to the development and deliv­ery of health care, on equal footing with men," Clinton said. 
The President said spending on breast cancer research. at the National Institutes of Health would increase by 44 percent under his budget, to almost $300 million from $208 million. Several other agencies will also spend more on research, he said. About 2.6 million Ameri­cans are estimated to have breast cancer. 
Under his health care plan, women would be covered for breast exams every three years from ages 20 to 39, and every two years from ages 40 to 64. They would get mammograms every two years after age 50. 
Some advocates had urged that mammograms be more frequent, but the President said his guidelines were "based on actual scientific evidence." An aide, Bob Boorstin, said the mammograms might be made more frequent if studies showed a need. 
female dorm. 
"Don't believe anything you hear," warned Kirk. "Rumors are flying, and those rumor_s are unfounded. There has been no decision made over which, if any, dorm will be con­verted." 
In other news, a Late Night Olympics committee consisting of Dietz Lefort of Sorin College, Andrea Ricker of Badin Hall, Tara Bonner of Lewis Hall and Jay Langan of Planner Hall was established. The date of the Late Night Olympics was changed to January 21. 

t-lappy 21st 

Robn~ Mego~ 
With love, Mom & Dad1 
3ohV\ & Kelly 



SPRINGFIELD 
A newspaper ad calls them drug pushers and puts their mug shots in a row like sus­pects in a police lineup. 
. Yet they promote a legal product used by millions. 
It's the latest salvo in an anti­smoking campaign that seeks to embarrass individuals involved in tobacco sales. 
But tobacco companies say the ad distorts the facts. And two newspapers, including The New York Times, refused to run it, raising questions about taste and fairness. 
The ad by the Springfield­based Stop Teenage Addiction to Tobacco carries the headline "Meet five of America's richest drug pushers." 
Underneath are photographs of five top executives of compa­nies that either sell tobacco products or accept advertising for them: publishers S.l. New­house and Rupert Murdoch, Laurence Tisch of Lorillard To­bacco, Henry Kravis of RJR Nabisco Holdings and Michael gic decision to personalize this issue because we feel it's too easy to ignore a corporation's actions and just say, 'It's busi­ness as usual,"' the group's director Jim Bergman said Monday. 
The anti-smoking group says tobacco companies sell ci­garettes to young people by 
Other volleys in the campaign include a "Hall of Shame" in the group's newsletter, target­ing individuals accused of encouraging young p,eople to smoke; and flying an airplane trailing a banner reading "Larry Tisch Sells Cancer Sticks" over a New York City­area beach last summer. 


ATTENTION PRE-lAW SOCIETY MEMBERS: 
NOVEMBER NEWSLETTERS ARE IN! PICK THEM UD AT 104 O'SHAG 

lVho:  All members of the Saint Mary's College Community Students, Staff, Faculty, and Administration  
\l\!flere:  The Chameleon Room in Haggar College Center  
lr\1/ten:  Wednesday, October 20th from 12:30 to 3:00p.m. Thursday, October 21th from 3:00 to 6:00p.m.  
Cost:  None  

What do you need to do? Please present your Saint Mary's I.D. 
SPONSORED BY HEALTH SERVICES & STUDENT AFFAIRS 



Real Italian. Real Fast 

317 W. McKinley, Mishawaka/255·2551/52770 U.S. Rt. 33N/277 -4008 






OINT 
Wednesday, October 20, 1993 page 5 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ........•................ Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barch OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 


The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edi£Or, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Homosexuals' souls will still be 'judged ­
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to the Kirsten Dunne's article that appeared in The Observer on October 14 headlined, "Celebrate 'National Coming Out Day' with an open mind." Dunne expressed particular dis­appointment about the way Catholics treat homosexuals. This hostility is based, she said, on irrational fear, a distorted interpretation of Christianity, and the sexual insecurities of those who are most hostile to homosexuals. I disagree. 
The irrational fear of which Dunne speaks is the supposed misconception that gay men are attracted to every man they see. I would agree with her conclusion that this simply isn't true. The fact is, however, that when gays are attracted to someone, they are no more likely to hide their feeling than are heterosexuals when they are attracted to someone. 
Think of the arguments the gay community itself has put forward in support of its fight against discrimination. "We cannot be expected to hide the fact that we are gay," they say. Fine. But if it is unrealistic for those people to hide the pres­ence of such impulses, isn't it also unrealistic to expect those who announce such an orien­tation to refrain from acting on it. 
Dunne belittles the fact that, during the recent debate on gays in the military, one soldier said he didn't want some 'fag' looking at him in the shower. As Dunne points out, that sol­dier has no way of knowing whether the homosexual was attracted to him. Is it not in­evitable, though. that the ho­mosexual will eventually feel 
DOONESBURY 
Tin Man! YOU're McK. 
Ycumustre 
lOOking for 
love. 

{ 
:--: 

attracted to someone he show­ers with everyday? 
I'll use myself as an example. If the rector of Badin Hall in­vited me to shower with the students who live their every morning, I think it is reasonable to say that eventually I would develop some sense of attrac­tion for one of the girls in that shower. Why? Because they are all members of the sex to which I happen to be attracted. 
The same hold true for the gay soldier. Eventually, he's going to fe.el attracted to some­one in his shower. Eventually he's going to act on it. Why? Because that is the gender to which he is attracted. So the fear, Kirsten, is not that gay men are attracted to every man they see but that, like all sexu­ally-active people, they will have impulses and they will act on them. 
'The same hold true 
for the gay soldier. Eventually, he's going to feel attracted to some­one in his shower. Eventually he's going to act on it. Why? Because that is the gender to which he is attracted.' 
Dunne also writes that Catholics must accept homo­sexuality because they are com­manded to love all people unconditionally. I agree com­pletely that God expects us to love all people, regardless of their supposed shortcomings. 
We see this when Jesus chooses to be with the tax col­lectors and prostitutes instead of the more righteous. Notice, however, the reason Jesus gives for the fact that he spends so much time with these people. Doctors are for the sick, he says, not the healthy. It is the sinners who are furthest from God who need God's help the most. It is precisely because Jesus objects to the sin that he spends time with these sinners. So of course Catholics should love homosexuals. But they should not love homosexuality. 
Dunne also thinks that we must interpret the Bible in light of the twentieth century (and therefore, I presume, ignore the parts critical of unrepentant homosexuals). That strikes me as a wee bit dangerous. The LutheraitS, though, have just done that. They seem to be on the verge of accepting homo­sexuality. But think about this. Liberal human institutions can do all the contemporary inter­pretation they want but it is still individual souls that will be judged -by God. 
Those Lutheran ministers who have just smugly decided the words Sodom and Gomorrah don't mean anything may not be kept out of heaven for their style of biblical inter­pretation (or will they?) but I wouldn't bet the ranch on those who act on their words. 
It reminds me of the tribes of Israel who abandoned the Ten Commandments in favor of a golden calf. I can just imagine one of their leaders saying that, in light of contemporary events, the Hebrews have taken a lik­ing to this slab of rock and that from now on they will ask it for eternal life. The point is this ­people can act collectively on many things but leading a 
Christian life is not one of them. We are judged by our own acts. When we are judged and 
'It is precisely 

because Jesus objects to the sin that he spends time with these sinners. So of course Catholics should love homosexuals. But they should not love homosexuality.' 
God asks why we committed a particular sin all our lives with­out repent, it won't be enough to say that some of our fellow humans got together at some Bible conference and decided sodomy is no longer a sin. On the other hand, maybe it will. Personally, I prefer to limit my betting to football. 
What if, Kirsten asks, one is born gay? How can we expect such a person to refrain from homosexual acts? Assuming such a thing is possible (appar­ently we have}, is that an excuse? No. A number of liber­als in the scientific community also believe that many people convicted of violent crimes have a chemical imbalance in their brains that cause them to engage in such behavior. We already know people can be born with a disposition towards alcoholism. 
Being born with a genetic dis­position towards committing otherwise sinful acts does not give one the right to engage in them. This is true for gays as it is for alcoholics and violent criminals. Again it is a ques­

by God' 

tion of what is acceptable to God. 
There is not an asterisk next to the commandment that for­bids us from salivating over a neighbor's wife that provides exceptions for those with un­usually high levels of testos­terone. The same goes for those who are born gay. Would Gomorrah have been accept­able if they had a toll booth on the main road into town where visitors would have their genes examined to see if they were born gay or had more recently, shall we say, 'bloomed'? Of course not. 
In conclusion, as to Kirsten's allegation that much of the ho­mophobia we see is produced by men who themselves might be gay, that is mere conjecture and there really isn't a way to prove or disprove it. But if the homosexual community needs a good jingle for its next mem­bership drive, "you guys are just jealous" probably won't do it. 
Finally, I would like to say something about The Observer's apparent desire to serve as a sounding board for all those who can't figure out why homosexuality and Christianity are incompatible. I am going to take the optimistic view and assume that those on the left who Write to The Observer just can't think of any other lost causes about which to write. So I have a few suggestions. Here are some possible titles for your letters. "Bill Clinton is a foreign policy genius" or "Hillary Clinton is not a socialist and really likes free enterprise." 
PETER ZAVODNYIK 
Graduate Studenr in Law Grand Beach, Michigan 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Itseems 

Trueeno~ ... 
r RnO'#' the
realerwgh 

Listen, Tin Man, 
pa56WOm
tome. Same 

do you like. 
''W:e must abandon the
toaWillie
feel~ of 

a>untry musiC? 
Nelson
eJatwn".or 
prevalent belief in

recorrt'
-~ 
5e$10I1. 
the superior wisdom of the 
.

Ignorant. " 
Daniel Boorstin Author 

page6 Wednesday, October 20, 1993


VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Revision ofSouth Mrican policy causes outrage 
Dear Editor: 
As a member of the Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Network from 1985 to 1991, I was sur­prised and outraged to read Father Oliver Williams' at­tempts to revise the history of Notre Dame' s investment pol­icy in South Africa in the Oct. 8, The Observer, headlined "ND to Invest in S. Africa.' 
Contrary to what Williams would have one believe, Notre Dame did not follow the lead of other Catholic institutions and embrace a policy of divestment from companies supporting apartheid by doing business in South Africa. 
Instead, Notre Dame opted for the less costly and, as his­tory has borne out, completely ineffective policy of constructive engagement. Although the ar­ticle encourages us not to "look back," it appears that a history lesson is in order. 
It is true that, in response to demands that Notre Dame take a stand against apartheid, Notre Dame adopted the Sullivan Principles, which lim­ited investment to companies which ascribed to a certain set of policies, such as integrated work environments, equal pay scales, and equal opportunity for advancement. 
Notre Dame also stated that it would not invest in companies that sold goods or services to the military, police, and gov­ernment. Although the African National Congress (ANC) and all of the legitimate black leaders in South Africa called for 
Dear Editor: 
Rolando de Aguiar should consider a career as a televi­sion talk show host. His em­phatic statement in his Oct. 15 "Inside Column" headlined, "Bitter taste of a new Generation," that Notre Dame graduate students are "Slackers" is clearly an igno­rant. unsupported sensational­ist statement aimed at provok­ing a response by offended graduate students. 
Undoubtedly, de Aguiar will either feel that responses such as this have proven his point or gloat at the stir that he has cre­ated. Unfortunately, responses of this form are necessary to prevent such an illusion from spreading. 
Contrary to de Aguiar's views, graduate students are not directionless and unmoti­vated. A typical doctoral stu­dent must discipline him/her­self to achieve a goal that requires four to seven years to accomplish. Most graduate stu­dents must do this while living near the poverty level and many with the continued threat of losing the small amount of funding that they do possess. 
divestment, Williams, who served as the University's ad­viser and spokesperson on this issue, stated time and time again that he was opposed to this policy and that only by in­vesting in South Africa could the US serve as a force for change. 
Opponents of William's policy of constructive engagement raised an important question: given that all companies doing business in South Africa sup­port the government through corporate taxes, how can they possibly exert leverage without the threat of divestment? 
In June of 1987. Father Leon Sullivan, author of the Sullivan principles, stated that the prin­ciples were ineffective for the dismantling of apartheid, and called for all US companies to withdraw from South Africa by March of 1988. The U.S. Catholic Bishop's conference also called for all Catholic insti­tutions to divest from compa-
In addition, a great many graduate students choose this path having voluntarily left gainful employment in the in­dustrial sector. I challenge de Aguiar to justify labeling grad­uate students as "directionless" and "unmotivated". 
De Aguiar should note that graduate students also con­tribute significantly to the aca­demic experience here at Notre Dame. Many graduate students spend a great deal of time preparing lectures, reviews and laboratories in addition to their research activities. And in many cases, these research activities make it possible for the university to receive the grant money used to maintain the level of education for which Notre Dame students and alum­ni are so proud. 
De Aguiar's misstatement must have been a slip-of-the­tongue, for if he were speaking from experience he would not have made such an insulting remark. 
CHRIS BETT Graduate Student in Electrical Engineering Fischer Graduarc Residences 

to recast Notre Dame's policy as a policy ,of divestment. Unfortunately, such misinfor­mation is consistent with the rhetorical tactics that I have seen Williams employ in the past. 
Both in print and when deliv­ering speeches on this topic, Father Williams has displayed a history of linking his name and his ideas with important anti­apartheid leaders such as Desmond Tutu -leaders who in actuality were known to be publicly opposed to his con­structive engagement policies. 
While I'm sure that Notre Dame did divest from some companies, and, as a result, did lose some money. the university at no time philosophically embraced a policy of divest­ment. When it was more prof­itable to oppose the ANC, Notre Dame opposed the ANC. 
Now that it is more profitable to side with the ANC, the Board is not only willing to comply nies conducting business in South Africa. 
Notre Dame, despite the rec­ommendations by the bishops and the author of its own in­vestment policy, still refused to divest. Many students and fac­ulty were outraged. Father Basil van Rensberg, a visiting priest from South Africa, was so shocked by the investment poli­cy that he fasted for nearly a month in protest. 
The protests and shanty towns to which Williams re­ferred were not staged in sup­port of a restricted investment policy, but to protest what was perceived as a profound moral failure by the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
Now that it is widely acknowl­edged that the policies of con­structive engagement were a failure. and that sanctions and divestment were largely re­sponsible for the changes that we now see, it appears that Williams is intentionally trying with Mandela's recommenda­tions, but is also actively pro­moting the misconception that it has always been in agree­ment with the legitimate black leaders of South Africa. 
Williams' revisionism is, quite frankly. an insult to the pursuit of truth which should be of paramount importance at any institution of higher learning, and the fact that Williams has served as chairman of the Honor Code committee makes his actions appear inexcusable. 
Furthermore, by coopting the thoughts and language of the divestment movement for the purpose of whitewashing one of Notre Dame's more embarrass­ing moral failures, Father Williams trivializes not only the hard work of the Anti­Apartheid Network, but also the efforts of all the organizations and individuals that took a pub­lic stand against ND's in­vestment policy, including the Graduate Student Union, Professor Peter Walshe, the Faculty Senate, Scholastic, The Observer. and Student Government. 
When discussing this issue both publicly and privately. Williams had often stated that people of good will may some­times disagree. Such conduct, however, reveals a basic lack of concern for honesty and in­tegrity that is in no way com­patible with any notion of "good will." 
PAUL CHECKETT 
Graduate Student in Psychology East Lansing, Mi. 

Alcohol letter exhibits 'ignorant sarcasm' 
Dear Editor: 

William McDonald, your igno­rant sarcasm does not become you (The Observer. Oct. 14, "Alcohol Awareness Week is purely a Puritan propaganda ploy"). I'm not trying to defend friends, but your attitude shows that you have not looked at anything that the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is trying to do on this campus. 
Notre Dame has a number of traditions. Unfortunately, one of these traditions has to do with cramming 30 people in a room too small for two, getting as drunk as possible, and hook­ing up with members of the opposite sex. 
Not to mention the traditions of tailgating, for the purpose of arriving at a football game drunk enough that your buzz will last you through the whole game. Notre Dame, as I see it, has a constant underlying goal of being as drunk as possible, as often as possible. 
That is what Alcohol Awareness week is trying to combat. I admit, I'm not yet 21, and I do drink alcohol. I've been drunk and have spent many evenings of "worshipping the porcelain god". But I don't go to parties to get smashed, I go to see bands, and to see friends. I'm not trying to say that I'm better than anyone•. I just never really saw the point in wanton drunkenness, 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education does advocate responsible drinking, and not necessarily abstinence. They simply ask that you drink in a fashion that neither harms yourself or others, be that physical or legal. If they didn't want students to drink at all, they'd say so. They'd have the "Zero Rule". not the "Zero, One, Three Rule". 
I've worked with Mark Pogue (the Office's director) and when I asked him about the Office's policy. he said that he had no problem with alcohol use. But he does have a problem with abuse, and activities where al­cohol is the sole purpose. 
That is why they and S.A.D.D. sponsor non-alcoholic dances , and why the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is sponsor­ing this year monthly concerts of campus bands, to give stu­dents an opportunity to do something over the weekend where they don't feel pressured to be drunk, where they can have fun and actually re­member it. 
Like you, I also disagree many of the actions of S.U.D.S., and the subsequent media cov­erage, but that's fairly easy to avoid. DuLac kindly affords students with the opportunity to get as drunk as the please, no matter what the age, and if you're going to be at an off­campus party, use a little com­mon sense. 
Don't walk around outside with your beer, advertising to any patrolling cops that there is a party, and don't piss off the neighbors. Then, it's not a problem. Police, or S.U.D.S., don't raid parties generally unless there is a complaint. 
I agree, there is nothing wrong with drinking alcohol. But don't yell at anyone for telling you otherwise, when they have not in fact done so. 
KATE BABKA 
Sophomore: Brccn-Phillips Hall 





CC6 
Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
STRAIGHT OUTTA 'WAKA 
Hercules, Caesar, and Father Geary 
"Gaudeamus igitur, iuvenes dum sumus." Oh, how the words to that old Roman drinking song flow melodi­cally in my ear, mystically whisking me away to a time when tunics were short, chariots were fast, and the gladiators weren't named 

"Nitro" or "Zap." What does  KRIS KAZlAUSKAS  
the song actually translate  Accent Columnist  
into? I really couldn't tell  
you. Yet, when I enrolled in  

Latin 4 A.P. in my senior year of high school, I 
unlocked the door to a veritable cornucopia of 
Latin fun. 
Father Geary, a plump 80-year-old Jesuit like Santa with a collar, taught the class. He prided himself on his knowledge of obscure saints, and each day we learned about a new one. Following the saint, came the Lord's Prayer in Latin, topped otT with the pledge of allegiance. Next, it was time for Latin songs. The majority were drinking songs, and being the communion-wine bellied Mariah Carey of the Jesuit community, He poured his soul into every word. 
When we weren't singing, we were translating Virgil. Nobody got as excited about Virgil as Father Geary, and nobody could drift otT the sub­. ect as well as he could. At one point, we were talking about Virgil, and the next minute he pro­ceeded to tell the class about the time that he was a boyscout. His sleeping bag got too close to the fire and burst into flames. Another time, he gave a thirty minute speech on the man who discovered the "double gamma." Then, as if nothing had hap­pened, he returned to reading once more. What added to the excitement of the stories was the way he fluctuated his voice, moved around, and seem­ingly had no peripheral vision. Like Old Faithful, at least once a class he would get otT of his stool in the middle of the room, walk to the blackboard, walk back, and run into the stool. Then, with the mighty roar of a velociraptor, he would heave the stool across the room as it crashed against the wall. If Latin had one highlight, this was it. 
Occasionally, we held a mass in Latin in the Jesuit chapel. We were given a twenty-page pro­gram to follow, but for a select few, we found it a good time to work on our oragami skills. One of the kids had found an oragami book, complete with paper, in the library, and while Father Geary was giving some sort of homily (in Latin), we were busy making paper cranes. By the end of the year, my friend, Chris Andrejko, became the mas­ter of oragami farm animals. 
Now, the pessimist might have looked at this class as a detriment to his mastering of the lan­guage. I had to approach it from the standpoint of writing A.P. on my transcript in exchange for mediocrity, which was a fair exchange to me. In fact, the class agreed that the grades we were get­ting deserved something, so we bought him a scarf and a Notre Dame sweatshirt for Christmas. That is not to say that I did no work in that class, I did translate the word "rapio" in November of that year. Incidentally, "rapio" means to "take or cap­ture." I also worked hard to memorize certain Latin songs. "Mica, mica, parva stella" comes to mind, which means "twinkle, twinkle, little star." Is that the extent of my Latin 4 A.P. knowledge? Well, yes, but I kept every one of his handouts. Thus, while students with more serious teachers have long since forgotten their declensions, I can simply call my mom, and have a fax of "Gaudeamus Igitur" in my hands in minutes. 
Father Geary was the greatest teacher I ever had. We did no work. We had no tests, but we were happy. As I close, let me leave you with the statement he made to the class that has forever immortalized him in my mind, "Guys, don't worry if you have a B at the quarter, we'll all have A's in the end." 
SMC graduate urges women to seize leadership positions 
By THERESA CAUSA 
Accent Writer 

"Carpe diem. Seize the moment. If you want to do something, take charge and do it!" urged Gloria Ybarra, a 1975 Saint Mary's gradu­ate, in her Leadership Luncheon address on Monday. 
The address, sponsored by the Leadership Development Committee, was the first of many speeches Ybarra will make during her week­long stay at Saint Mary's. 
Ybarra, who has a successful career as a lawyer and judge under her belt, currently resides in Phoenix, Ariz., with her husband and three children. She's excited to be here and says that "coming back always gives her a sense of renewed optimism." 
Ybarra attributes much of her suc­cess to her years at Saint Mary's. "You have the opportunity to grow yourself as a leader here," she said. Saint Mary's provides unique oppor­tunities for women to assume leader­ship roles, she expressed. 
Her Saint Mary's experience has helped her to strive for success and has inspired her with self-confidence for success in the future. Without these defined characteristics, Ybarra doesn't think she'd be as successful as she is today. 
Ybarra attended Arizona State University her first year of college, and then transferred to Saint Mary's because she missed out on some things that only a small private school can provide. 
Although, she had never been to Indiana or seen Saint Mary's College, she decided to transfer after a close friend told her about the uniqueness of a small women's college. 
\ 

According to Ybarra, this was a very hard transition, but one she'd never regret. Depite the hardships, she looks back on her decision and is happy that she chose "the road less traveled." 
After transferring to Saint Mary's she realized she had really missed being in a leadership position and was ready to assume one again. She became a Le Mans· Hall representa­tive on the Student Assembly where she dealt with similar issues as today: parietals, parties on campus, alcohol policy and students moving ofT-campus. 
Ybarra found Saint Mary's to be a safe, supportive environment where she could display her leadership skills. 
"I'm convinced that for me and for many women I know, that this is the kind of environment in which you can experiment with yourself as a leader; where you can take risks," she said. 
Upon traveling to Boston over one Ovtober break, Ybarra was inspired­to attend Harvard Law School. She feels that had she not already taken a big step in going to Saint Mary's from Arizona, she probably never would have made a move all the way to the east coast. 
Graduating from Saint Mary's with a government degree, she had been interested in the law and politics ever since she was young. By the time she was accepted at Harvard, she had already planned to attend Notre 
Dame.  But, she  saw  attending  
Harvard  as  a  once  in  a  lifetime  
opportunity.  

In retrospect, while she feels that she may have been happier at Notre Dame, she feels that her connection with Harvard has been very valuable 
Medieval D~ama pe~fo~mances illt-1minate the bible sto~ies 
By MIKE KERSEY 
Like you've never seen before, the Bible will come to life with the humor of the centuries in several medieval dramas performed by stu­dents in Dr. Paul Rathburn's medieval drama class. 
600 years ago in medieval towns like New York, Chester, Coventry, and Wakefield, crowds gathered to watch craftsman perform the pageants now known as mystery plays. 
In a festival atmosphere filled with wine and song, these medieval players presented the Bible through the eyes of the common man. 
In the midst of all the pre-game activity this weekend, crowds will gather this Saturday at the Fieldhouse Mall (in front of LaFortune Student Center) to watch the students perform part of this glo­rious cycle of plays. 
These students are enrolled in ENGL 434Z: Medieval Drama in Performance, under the guidance of Dr. Paul Rathburn, 
At 9:30 a.m., the world will be crated anew in "The Creation and Fall of Man." Shortly after Adam and Eve have their evil snack, Notre Dame fans will witness "The Killing of Abel." God vents some anger and the seas swallow the world in Noah's flood, followed by the ultimate test of faith in "Abraham and Isaac." 
These plays work through a skill­ful combination of the spiritual with the earthy, the sacred with the pro­fane, and serious moral lessons with to her career. 
After graduating from Harvard in 1978, Ybarra entered a small law firm in Phoenix where she spent two years in a clerk position. 
However, she was soon urged to apply for a position in the U.S. Attorney's office as a Federal prose­cutor dealing with general crimes, like murder and rape. For four years she worked on all the narcotics cases for northern Arizona, which she found very exciting. 
At the age of 30, she decided to apply to be a Superior Court judge for the state of Arizona. She suffered two years of rejection, people saying she was "too young," before finally being appointed the youngest judge ever in Arizona on Oct. 18, 1985. She served for six years until she made the difficult decision to resign her judgeship in order to spend more time at home with her children. Two years later, she went back to work with a large, well-respected law firm in Phoenix, where she works today. 
Ybarra believes that whatever you do in life should make a difference. She urges, "There's so much to do, so many opportunities. Learn to say yes to those things where your time will matter and you'll make a difference." 
She conflrms that it is difficult to be a woman and to be a leader. Yet, at the same time, it is easy to see how rewarding leadership roles can be. She urges Saint Mary's women to take the opportunities available to them , to strengthen their own self­confidence, have faith in their abili­ties and accept leadership roles will­ingly. 
"I hope when you leave here that you will take those opportunities and seize those moments to grow yourself as a leader." Ybarra said. 
slapstick humor. 
"The plays present the great mys­teries of our salvation... but always from the point of view of the man in the street," Rathburn expressed. 
He claims the mystery plays are so powerful because we can all see something of ourselves in his pre­sentation of Biblical stories. "These plays remind us that Cain's cyni­cism, Adam and Eve's bitter recrimi­nations after the fall, Noah's grati­tude, and Abraham's anguish are all basic aspects of our own human existence," he added. 
All this, and these plays possess great humor, too. 
Rathburn also notes that the plays. formerly the staple of the theater. are hardly performed today. His class is one of a kind, and he has yet to hear of any University that has any type of annual connection with these medieval cycles, or would like to slowly incorporate performances into an annual festival. 
Mter talking with these students, their enthusiasm for this project is evident. Many are discovering the stage for the first time, and this class gives them the opportunity to stray from the conventional pattern of other English classes, Rathburn expressed. 
It is fitting that these productions, originally performed by carpenters and boat builders, should include theses first time thespians. 
Exclusively produced for this cam­pus, this performance of medieval drama, could prove to be the best pre-game activity of the year. 
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES 
FOR SALE: 3 ST. Tix Book 4 Sale Does anyone need a ride from the Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break *STUDENT TICKET FOR BC & 273-4002 USC fern. stu. ticket FOR SALE. Penn State area back to ND on Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go usc· Make offer. Call Jen x4861. 10/31? I'll be there and would love 
FREE! Best trips & prices! CALL 703-538-6657 $$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$ some company. Typing Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, ASK FOR BRENDAN -Call Phil x3543 HAVE USC GA TO TRADE FOR Call Allison 287-4082 Panama City! Great Resume expe­*SAME DAY SERVICE* ANY FSU ERIN x2785 
rience! 1-800-678-63861 #4975Adoption: Doctor and profes­WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for Need GAs for USC-sor will make dreams for your baby CALL 259-8684. SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, up to 4 GA S.C. tix OR will buy S.C. will pay big$$$$ call Aimee @2654 come true. Fulltime parenting. Best 
EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General tix. 631-6305or291-4240 of the city; summer by the beach: Need Business Cards? Student Travel Services is now hir­Adm. only. Going to Philly for Break? I have Your baby rocked to sleep by a -call Adwork.s 1-6756 ing campus reps. Call @ 800-648-Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162, My cousin Frankie is coming out. Navy Tix. Also USC GA's. I need cozy fireplace in winter, and by LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY!! 4849. (W) 201-992-8700 He needs one FSU student ticket. BC and FSU GA's ai1Yone willing to ocean waves in summer. Art, 
Call Joe Russo at 234-6306. buy or trade call Liz at 273-8967 music. the best education, endless WANTED Need 2 GAs for any home game love. Call Franny or Stephen collect Ride back to NO after fall break Call Tim at 273-1757 FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN Will trade roommates' credit cards (212)369-2597 from Richmond/DCN A Beach area AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN and $$ for USC GA's ............ please 
LOST: J-Crew Bam jacket(Brown) at the end of break. Call Marc at USC Stud. Tckt. ALL CALLS call Brian x1586. Have you turned It was lost in late Sept. Please con­634-1089. Will help with tolls and Best Offer in your tact Mike at 634-1166 with any gas and will be forever indebted. Raghib 4-0505 Desperately need 2 GA tickets for FSUGA LONDON PROGRAM information. USC Game. Help make a little boy's 40 yd In, row 24 APPLICATION??? 
DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC & dream come true. Call collect after NEED I SAY MORE? LOST-BLUE POLO JACKET IN BACK TO SCHOOL FROM FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297. 5pm (404)275-7868 Tim @ 608-255-2175 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ DE BARTOLO 102 FRIDAY A.M.­WILLIAMSBURG, VA AREA NEED CASH FOR FALL BREAK?? HAS SENTIMENTAL VALUE AFTER FALL BREAK. WILL HELP NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­TRADE FOR SALE 4 USC GA'S TOGETH­CALL KIM X3518 WITH GAS & DRIVING. FRANK LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221-1 USC STUD FOR 1 BC STUD Eric ER MIDFIELD call and make offer. STOP BY THE 
x1431. 6183. x1033 marianne 273 1420 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Lost: Black 3-Ring Binder Oct. 18-by the PC's in DeBartolo We will purchase at handsome price $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA Need USC student tickets. Rick $1 0-$250 Loans 
FOR RENT 

Cheryl 288-5205 four seats together for the Florida STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$ 273-5347 30 days 
State game. Pis. call (800) 457-1 o/o interest PLEASE OH PLEASE KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK­0486. For Sale: GA's for all games. 277-I NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET RETURN MY 10 ASAP! FAST located 23 miles south of 1659. PLEASE CALL EMILY 634-2856 11:30-12:30 Mon.-Fri. LOST:LINEBACKER 10/16 Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz CA Alum paying top $ for FLA Next to Info. Desk, Lafortune IL LISC AND NO 10 Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4 STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DES! NEED 2 FSU TIX CALL 273-6205 rooms, full breakfast -week-end STU orGA $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
getaway Need 2 USC GA's I have Billy Joel Tix for Friday's $$ Very Lost: A small, black leather 219-586-7090 Will pay $100 ea show and I need to trade them for Kristi x4241 Happy 21st bag with a shoulder strap, that con­x1868 tix to Tuesday's. So let's trade. Tiffany!!!! tained a Nikon camera lens, as well BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­Call Chris at x4-1069. Need USC ticks badly: student or as instructions. Not really sure ND/SMC EVENTS DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC GAs for SC brothers Love where it could be ... If you have seen (219) 291-7153 GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT .............................................. call Rick ASAP x1352 Always, it, please call Brian at 287-4561 AFTER 6 PM. • I NEED 2 USC GAs THUMPER #3363. Thanks! Seeking rommate to share house. Need BC Tickets! 
$250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix PLEASE CALL TARA x2846 $%$%$%$%$o/~o/o$%$%$%$% to FLORIDA ST $$$. AT#4975 I need FSU tickets ... 
WANTED 

..............................................
HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ t'll trade two free airline tickets to 
FAST ALLIANCE -LOCAL & ··--------USC GA'S FOR SALE the Bahamas usable anytime during CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up NOTRE DAME GUESTS. N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets NEED 1 USC GA. JODI 273-5805 BEST OFFER the next year in exchange for 2 FSU to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE Call Frank or John 277-4953 sudent tix or GAs. employment available. No experi­STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989. 1-800-7 49-5975 I AM LUSTING FOR YOUR FSU +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Call Joe at 634-1577 ence necessary. For more informa­24-HR. ANSWERING MACHINE. Will trade DISNEY tickets GA'S. SATISFY MY PASSION. tion 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 CALL PETER, X1394 2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BEST $%$%$%$%$%$%$o/~%$%$% 
GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR OFFER-JON 215-630-9329 We need a Kegirator. Interested in OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2n3097 SALE GRAD TCKT APPLCTN 288-FOR THE (GRAD?) STUDENT selling us one. Please give us a call. DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $210. 4919 Need FSU stud ticket FROM INDIA IN SEARCH OF 234-2793 EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE, 4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC Tim x1517 SEPT. 26 TIMES OF INDIA ­
BUS 232-8444. 2 FSU GAs x1850 I NEED FLA STATE GA'SI!! I found the issues you wanted after AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. CALL ** 232-5030 ** Need 2 USC GA's or studs. you left being thrown out -if you EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE ROOM FOR RENT.CLEAN,FRN­WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL call Katie x 1120 want them, call me at 634-4772. WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, SHD,CHARMING RMTS. 412-352-3216 PARENTS STILL NEED 2 USC EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE 259-0219 GA'S. CALL CHRIS X1463 Need four general admission tickets HEY PHILADELPHIANS! 
.LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY c ecce ccc c''c c c ecce c ,oooooo, ,,.,, , , , , , • •,,,, to USC game. Call 234-7553 (day) Because I know we from the city of 
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 I, like everyone else in the world, I NEED 1 USC GA NICK X17n or 234-3873 (nite). Also looking for brotherly love are so kind and gen­SEASONS. GUARANTEED Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­FSU. erous, I know one of you out there EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929-end 616-699-7137 perate than all of them, though. Rich Alumni needs 3 FSU GA's and will help me out and give me a ride 4398 ext 31 any BC tix. Call216-867-3473 NEEDTIX home for fall break. I'll pay gas, 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­Please call me-Diane x4253. USC FSU BC tolls, etc. Please Help!!! FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and able for parents on weekends. 219-MBA needs USC tix. Willing to CALL MIKE X0600 Call PATRICK at X1628 find out how hundreds of students 291-2899. I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's trade BC GA's. Call Kevin at are already earning FREE TRIPS call Beth @ X2615 X4469. Need $for plane. MUST SELL 2 Ed (HOMIE)­and LOTS OF CASH with America's FSU GA's, 1 stud. tix by break for I know that you like pina-coladas 
FOR SALE

#1 Spring Break company! Choose Need GA's for USC FOR SALE face value. Call Russell x4511 and getting caught in the rain. Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, call Gary x1236. STUD AND GA TIX I know that you're not into yoga Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL Spring Break! Plan Early -Save FOR ALL GAMES USC TIX FOR SALE @ 273-0531 (unless by request) and that NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the ANTHONY 282-2133 you have half a brain. TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 two lovely people who spawned me. FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV.5 I know that you like making love (617)424-8222 days includes12 meals $279! Any home game. Will pay resonable R.T. Ticket S.B. to Boston. Leave CALL WADE -0789 at midnight, on the dunes of 
Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291 price. Heck, I'd even draw somethin' 11/17, return 11/21. $200 or BO. the cape. 
................•.....................
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK Cancun from Chicago $439, for ya. Call Jay at 271-1400 Call 271-1623. I also know that it is your '941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key between 6-10 pm any night. FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC 21st BIRTHDAY DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE West $239, Daytona Room w/ ***FOR SALE*** FOR SALE and PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­Kitchen $1491 1-8Q0-678-6386 NO ALUM needs several USC GAs. FOUR USC GA'S. TOGETHER ON #1 vs. #2 -it's worth every penny! what you want today! SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH Please call (313)953-5572 after 25-YD LINE. CALL BILL AT Call Levell at 3305-lel's negotiate TOURS 1-800-426-n10 SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS 7pm. 291-6216 Here is A, Bison the way, and I 
SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any promise to fulfill C if you promise $5. 50/hr. Need 3-4 students to CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND 2 FSU TICKETS NEEDEDII Will NEED 2 USC TICKETS II home game. Call Aaron @ 272-me a dance to "Escape"!! conduct telephone interviews VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE take student or GA call Annemarie CALL DIANE X4812 3418 
between Oct. 25 and Nov. 5. NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT at 312-404-5131 or 312-573-2143 Happy 21st Birthday!! Call Maureen 631-5n9, Center MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT NEED 2 F. ST GA'S FOR RICH I STILL NEED 3-5 U.S.C. GA'S. See you tonight!! Carla for Social Concerns. 284-5062 Desperate alum in DC need Fla COUSINS $$$ JIM 232-3807 CALL JOE @ 4-1654 
State football tickets! Will pay big NANCY-Another Birthday? Babysitter wtd. for occas wkend & See DEPECHE MODE in Concert bucks. Call Tom collect after 8PM FOR SALE: 1 USC ST. TICK Need: 1 USC GA. Location not What difference does it make wknts. 232-5388 ROSEMONT HORIZON (Chicago) 703-768-8569 2BCGAS important. Call Mike 4-4367. how old you are? Whether or not 
Fri.Oct.29 BEST OFFER X2851 you tell your age is 50 of one, or IF YOU NEED A RIDE TO QUAD 8pm 4 SALE-2 FSU GA'S. BO by Need 4 GA's for USC haH a hundred of another. CITIES /IOWA CITY FOR FALL 3 Tix, Floor Seating 10121. Call Rob @x1601. I NEED 2 USC GA'S Call Kim 284-5344 HAPPY 50TH BIRTHDAY BREAK CALL KELLY X4270 Call Ry @4X1163 -ANDREW X1881 Best wishes, 
NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND I failed all my midterms and my life's Roy, Joel, and Cory I desperately need a ride to St. 1 Plane tckt. $$$1111 CALL TOM 254-9013 FSU = 1 vs 2 going downhil. Cheer me up and Louis for fall break. I will help pay SB to Greenville/ Four 30 yardline student tickets sell me your FSU Stud. tix What's wrcng with being a "Siushie gas and tolls. Please call Tim at Spartanberg, SC I need 2 USC GAs! together with all the trimmings. CALL ME TONIGHT! Tom X1480 Engineer" ... you could serve oliver­1462 10122 & back Please call Becca at 4876 Make a GRAND offer. bern everydayll 
10/31 X2485 219-634-1097 STUD. TIX BOOK 4-SALE!I!I!I PIANO needed. If you have one to FOR SALE: 5 FSU student tickets. Best Offer by the 21st. 284-4062 THE COPY SHOP IN THE BASE­sell, please call Muriel: office 631-STAMP COLLECTION-call KJ All together. Call Nei1634-4417. 4 SALE: 2 USC GA'S MENT OF LAFORTUNE IS 5608, home 255-7961. @ 232-7838 LETS MAKE A DEAL FOR SALE: 2 FSU tix ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
NEED USC GA's for my parents. 273-6545 AFTER 6 PM Moira x1275 or Ceila x1281 FOR PART TIME HELP. APPLI­I NEED A RIDE FROM DC TO NO NEED 2 USC TICKETS Call Jim @ 289-6648 CANTS MUSTBE AVAILABLE TO AFTER OCTOBER BREAK 634-2856 EMILY Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted! "*FOR SALE** WORK WEEK-ENDS AND WILL HELP PAY FOR Will trade USC GA's & cash for Please call (407)438-3697 1 USC STUD. TIC. EVENINGS UNTILMIDNIGHT. GAS AND TOLLS Roundtrip Air SB to Newark FSU tix. Call Jim 312-743-8932 CALL MIKE x1889. COME IN ANYTIMEDURING PLEASE CALL EMILY Departs 1 0123 Returns 10131 4 SALE USC/BC STUD TIX CHEAP STORE HOURS TO PICKUP AN AT634-2856 271-1512 $200 Alum needs to Trade BC GA's for X1203 MATT APPLICATION.
PERSONAL
USC GA's. Brian x1979 Seeking male roommate to share STILL HAVE DEPECHE MODE TIX I NEED 2 USC GAs $ BIG BUCKS THE JUGGLER apartment. Close to cam­FOR OCT28 OR 29.GOOD PRICE. I need two USC GA's Please call $ CALL MIKE @ 3489 Consider a life of patient love from the Campus Literary pus.$215/rno+utilities. 273-PLEASE BUY THEMI259-0219 x1882 Mom, financial security from Dad, and Arts Magazine 6187or631-5445 Michael Need 2 FSU/ND tickets, Call Brian laughter and music in a country will take submissions 
WANTED:$$$ at 1-800-226-8001. home for your baby. Please call until5:00 PM
TICKETS

NEED a ride from Minneapolis GA AND STUD TIX Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 Friday, Oct. 22 to NO on Oct. 30 or 31 Please call FOR ALL GAMES Need 2 FSU/ND tickets, Call Brian anytime. in the English Office x34861 I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL 282-2133 TONY at 1-800-226-8001. 3560'Shag 
TIXS.272-6306 SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your Questions? x4-2688 2 GREAT girls need ride from -1need GAs for the USC $#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$ high school over break as SMC Minneapolis/St. Paul to NO on 101 DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­game-Please call Katie at rep? Sign up-Admission Office. Molly ... 31 Will help with$ & entertainment ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call: 284-5447-I need USC GAs and Student tix .. Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21 I'm sorry call4995 A. Raczkowski 5:30pm Stapleton Lounge. I'm sorry 
(800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs Call Monique at 634-4273 I'm sorry with jobs -will pay big $$$! for family. Please call Rich X-4499 
$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$# HOT OILI!I HOT OIL!!! HOT OIL!! I 
...................-----------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 20, 1993 page 13The Observer • SPORTS 
Belles fall to Maroon 
By MARY GOOD Saint Mary's Spans Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team suffered a disappointing 2-0 loss to the University of Chicago last night dropping their record to 6-6-1. 
Last night's score, however, does not reflect the overall ef­fort the Belles put forth. 
"We just didn't score on our opportunities and they did. Their two shots were really good," senior Mandy Eiler said. 
Saint Mary's had 20 shots on goal while the University of Chicago only had 11. 
"We had trouble finishing on offense. We couldn't get them in," Eiler added. 
Last night was the Belles' last away game of the season. The loss was disappointing, but the effort was not. 
"As a team, and especially from the seniors, it was a great effort," Eiler said. 
st:i11 

SMC volleyball falters 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI Sports Writer 
The new lineup for the Saint Mary's volleyball team proved to be effective as the Belles beat the University of Chicago in four games last night. 
The Belles won 15-10, 8-15, 15-10, and 15-9, to break a three game losing streak. 
Saint Mary's coach, Julie Schroeder-Biek, was pleased with the win overall. 
She was displeased, however, with the sloppy defense in the last game. 
"We were slow in the transi­tion off of the net," said Schroeder-Biek. "The team will be working on this in order to finish the season with all wins." 
Filling in the back row, Jennie Taubenheim was a key player in yesterday's win. The sophomore has had experience on the college basketball court, but this is her first year at the volleyball net. Her inexperi­ence, however, was not appar­ent from her performance last night. 
Taubenheim attributes the win to the team communica­tion. 
"We've got the losing out of our system," she said. "If we keep communicating, we have a good chance of winning the rest of our games." 
No. 4 Cavanaugh faces No. 7 Alumni in season finale 
By G.R. Nielson Sports Writer 
On Sunday, fourth-ranked Cavanaugh clinched a playoff spot with their 13-0 victory over Sorin, and for the Crusaders to continue their winning ways, they must con­tinue to give the ball to sopho­more running back Mike Norbut. 
Seventh-ranked Alumni needs to win to make the play­offs. This will be no easy task against a strong Cavanaugh team. Alumni played Zahm tough most of the game before eventually succumbing 7-0. 

,.·"" 0. .,., t ·~ 1 ~ .... 0 .,.....,.,., 'J""'Q '1"'\0 'r" to 
""'"''"" .&..I. 1 ......~ ,.._ "" 9 ........., ~..,... .... 0 
IJOt 'flr~U •.. d l:>.Ut youi.:
.t:

... . . ., . . 
'1 


.......,.;,.;-:--····· . 
10

.;......,. . 
pr"""•~·-~-;~~~~·S • .,
••.•. •. -;:.~ry."'-:·"·:·::"''"' .. 
• 
~~ .(/;.;.. } 
.. « ( ;;,' .. 
.... 
. 

. . 
. 
. 

Alumni needs to sustain four good quarters of football to have a chance against the Crusaders. 
"We will be pumped," said Alumni captain Paul Zachlin, "But we will have to play well because Cavanaugh is a strong team." 
Fisher vs. Carroll 

Second-ranked and unde­feated Fisher looks to end the regular season on a positive note with a victory against twelfth-ranked Carroll. 
Fisher is coming off an im­pressive rout of St. Ed's. In that game, Fisher clicked on all cylinders. They played out­standing defense and were very efficient on offense. 
Carroll (0-2-1) has struggled this season but should be well rested coming off a bye week. Carroll must contain the Green Wave's aerial attack and quar­terback Jeff Biever to have a chance. On offense, Carroll must sustain its drives by con­verting on more third downs. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 16 
everyone a chance," explained Ervin. "I just try to come in and give others a rest when they need it." 
Briggs is also increasing her role in the Irish rotation, as she played a solid third game de­spite being out of her natural position. 
"In the third game, we expe­rienced a little letdown because people were out of place," stat­ed Brown. "Jen Briggs did a great job for her first time opposite the setter, and that could prove important if any­thing ever happened to Jenny Birkner." 
Even with players scattered about the court, the Irish had only minor problems in game three. After sloppy passing by Notre Dame and inspired play by KSU's Larisa Grinbergs tied the score at nine, the Irish were able to run off six straight points on the serving of Ervin and Reckmeyer and the hitting of Peters, who scored on two powerful kills to end the match. 
The Irish will have the rest of the week for practice before traveling to west to face No. 17 Arizona State, No. 21 Arizona, and Northern Arizonas. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
for 33 points, Daws needs three points to break current tri-cap­tain Stephanie Porter's 1991 record of 35 points. 
As a team. the Irish have tied their record for goals in a sea­son with 66 and look to shatter that mark tonight against the Ramblers. 

With Visa® you'll be accepted at more 1 0 million places. nearly three times more than American Express. And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 
L-----------------------------------------@VtSaU.SAinc.1993.-__. 

page 14 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
!~ Water polo squad shows promise; sailing club sends Kelley to Nationals 
By JENNY MARTEN Senior Sporn Writer 

Freshman John Miller led the Notre Dame water polo club with 13 of the team's 26 goals last weekend at a tournament at the University of Michigan. 
The Irish turned in a solid performance at the tourna­ment, defeating Eastern Michigan, tying the Michigan B­team while losing to Michigan, Eastern and the 7-7 tie versus the Wolverine B-team. Two other freshmen were instru­mental in the tie as the Irish came back from a 7-4 deficit with two and a half minutes remammg. Peter McGarty chipped in a goal and Pat Lane added the tying goal. 
The Irish water polo squad was a young one this weekend with five freshmen, four sopho­mores and only two junior trav­Championships at Eastern Michigan on November 5. 
ROWING CLUB 
Over Fall break, the Notre Dame rowing club travels to Boston this weekend to com­pete in the prestigious Head of the Charles and Philadelphia on October 31 to compete in the Head of the Schuylkill. 
The Head of the Charles fea­tures top rowers from around the world and the Irish will 8 divisions. 
The men's boat will feature from bow to stern: Doug Staudmeister, John Fronduti, Chris Bettacchi, Steve Crowley. Dino Cusumano, Chris Raffo, Steve Schrantz and John Gerding. 
After a week training in Philadelpia, the Irish will c.om­pete in the men's lightweight 8, the men's open 8, the men's club 8, the women's club 8 and the women's lightweight 8 divi­sions. 
SAILING CLUB 
Notre Dame junior Steve Kelley won the Midwest Collegiate Singlehanded Sailing Championship two weeks ago in Madison, Wisconsin. 
The win qualified Kelley for the Singlehanded National Championships in Seattle, Washington on November 19­21. 
Ohio State and Northwestern. elling to the tournament. compete in the men's light­Miller's 13 goals contributed Next up for the water polo weight 8, the women's light­to the Irish's 9-6 win over club is the Midwestern weight 8 and the women's club 

ALL-YOU-CAN-EAT 

CompleDlentory Fren~h Hrend 

El grupo 

Biblico Reflexi6n 
Informal Prayerful Reflection on the Bible 
Cada Semana/Weekly 
(join u~ ·when you can) 
Bring Your Own Bible 
Espafiol o Ingles 
Todos estan Invitados/ 
All are invited **Refreshments Following 
Para mas informacion ran Campus Ministry 1-7800 
t I 
I~ 
I' 
1: 
J 
1
) 
j 
J( 
Friday, October 22, 1993 9 p.m.-1 a.m. 

Free Food & Mocktails Pre-USC Bash At LaFortune Ballroom 
Sponsored by SADD 


Wdnesday, October 20, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

SPELUNKER 
LEARNED SOMf.THING COOL TODA'-/ IN ANIMAL BEHAIJ lOR., HANK. 
,,, 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

BASI£5 I-IA\1£ 81~ foRE­HEADS BE.CAUSG. 8167 fORt HtADS STIMULATE­
NUR1URII'Jln BE.HAVIOR 
IN ADULIS. 
TllAT5 WH'i Wf. n-llNK BABI£5 AR£ Cl/TE.IN fAcT, 1lUS FORf.H£A D 
fACfoR HAS LED lo 1lt£ -w£M~OO\J5 PoPLt.ARITY 
OF EV~I(Yil\IN&l FI<Or-1 
MIC,KG'{ MOVSt 'TV l'H'G" 
CABMen€; PfiTOl KIDS. 




"Could you come back later? He's catching a few Y's right now." 
OF INTEREST 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSON 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

53 Challenging reply to 58 Down 56 Group with no strings attached 57 With-it, 1940's 
style 60 Fool 62 Reside 64 Group for 43 
Across 65 Leather piercers 6& Charter 67 Most prose­
cutors: Abbr. 68 Fool 69 Over 
DOWN 
1 Takes 40 winks 2 Pelvic bones 3 Fool 4 Sgt. maj., e.g. 5 Busybodies 6 "The Sandbox" 
playwright 7Tuesday-­B Siouan of Neb. 9 Fool 
10 Greek Minerva 
11 In which seconds come first 
12 Collective abbr. 13 What comes out in the wash 
19 Tricksters 22 Literary lioness 25 What insurers 
insure against 26 Proust character 27 Libertines 28 Ham Hamlet 

29 Ending for yes or no 30 Fool 31 Ills 32 Valleys 35 Endows with power 38 Work in installments 
41 "The Last Days of Pompeii" heroine 
44 Fool 
45 Merit 


48 Experts 55 Familiar temp. 50 "What has four residence wheels and 
56 Flax or cotton flies?" 
pod

52 "--thou by 58 Or--(wordssearching find of a threat)out God?": Job 59 Argued a case
53 Pelion's companion 61 Jefferson bill 
54 Moved quickly &3 Cyst of a kind 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Notre Dame 
Cantonese BBQ Spareribs Gyros 
atSL 

' 

Stew 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Fool 6 G.l. truant 10 Some citrus drinks 14 Mrs. Ralph Kramden 15 "--smile be yo~r umbrella 
1& Ballerina's mini 
17 Nut pine 
18 Fool 
20 Kickapoo's kin 
21 --off (angry) 
23 Mournful tolls 
24 Pope's capelike 
vestment 
26 Zeus, as seen by Leda 
27 Lax in duty 
29 Pivoted, in a way 33 Elec. units 34 Navigate the air 36 Eggs, to Ovid 37 Screwballs 39 White-tailed eagle 40Seal 42 D.D.E.'s 1940's "show place" 
43 Ancient monastic Palestinian 
46 Eye with a purpose 
47 Split 
49 TV's Dillon 

51 Cocktail-party fare 
52 Official proclaimer 

BEFORE YOU HOST YOUR Zero =Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're NEXT PARTY REMEMBER TO: under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant.
• Offer a choice of non-alcoholic 
ZER®
beverages. 

• Serve food. Food helps you One = One drink per hour, which sets enjoy what you drink without letting the pace for moderate drinking.
e)N8
what you drink get the better of you. AND 
• Encourage your guests to follow 
the Zero-One-Three rule for Three= No more than three drinks per day, alcohol consumption. and never daily.
THR:W ' 
For more information on party planning and non-alcoholic recipes, call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
SPORTS 

page 16 Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
Irish netters put crunch on Golden Flashes in warm-up for road trip 
By Timothy Seymour nior outside hitter Nicole nal, and the match against the Assistant Sports Editor Coates contributed her own Golden Flashes only strength­definitive cross court kill. ened its role. 
Preparing for its most ardu­The first game ended care of Sophomore Shannon Tuttle ous road swing of the season, Notre Dame's senior co-cap­came in at setter and played the No. 12 Notre Dame volley­tains, as setter Janelle Karlan two solid games for the Irish, ball team showed that it is hit the two ball for a kill and running the offense without again ready for top 20 competi­middle blocker Julie Harris trace of a letdown. Also, fresh­tion as it put on a clinic in added a solo block to secure man middle blocker Laura power volleyball against Kent game point. Reckmeyer saw her most ex­State last night, dismissing the "We were able to execute tended action in a Notre Dame Golden Flashes 15-5, 15-5, 15-9 well all night," commented uniform and was up to the task, to run its winning streak to Irish head coach Debbie Brown, hitting for a kill the first time eight straight. who saw her team improve to she touched the ball, making 
With every member of the 16-3. "The whole squad played her presence felt at the net. team contributing solid efforts, well." However, the most drastic the Irish were never seriously The second game started in improvement was noticed in threatened in the match, con­much the same vein, as sopho­freshmen outside hitters tinuously building and holding more Brett Hensel added a kill. Kristina Ervin and Jen Briggs. large leads against a totally an ace, and a diving dig while Ervin especially is making a overmatched Kent State squad. outside hitter Christy Peters strong bid for more playing 
In the first game, the Irish notched two kills and two time, as her consistent hitting starters took the play right at sprawling digs of her own as game is complemented by a the Golden Flashes, breaking Notre Dame ran out to an 8-1 solid serve. At times in each of 
.away from a close 6-4 game lead. the final two games, Ervin with six straight points served "Christy stayed in the whole seemed to be the entire focus of by freshman outside hitter match, and as always she was the offense, as her· hitting time Jenny Birkner. very consistent for us," noted and again sliced through the 
With Birkner's serving dis­Brown. "However, I was really Kent State block and her hard 
rupting an already weak pleased that our bench showed serve disrupted the Golden 
Golden Flash offense, the Notre such good depth, which allowed Flash offense. 
Dame hitters were able to score our starters to sit." "Debbie's coaching is very 
at will, as senior middle blocker Bench strength has been one team oriented, and she gives 
Molly Stark scored on three of the most noticeable improve­
straight kills at the net, and. ju-ments of late in the Irish arse­
see VOLLEYBALL I page 13 

Lester, No. 3 Irish seek records against Loyola ofChicago 



f: 
J; 
Men's lnterhall Cavanaugh faces Alumni; Carroll challenges Fisher in final match-ups. 

see page 13 By BRYAN CONNOLLY ety of injuries. Junior Tiffany Thompson, Assistant Sports Editor sophomore Rosella Guerrero, and fresh­
men Cindy Daws and Stacia Masters are 
After climbing two notches to the num­all battling nagging injuries but are still ber three spot in the national rankings, listed as probable for the game. the Notre Dame women's soccer team "We're very beat up right now," said will continue its march to the NCAA tour­Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. nament tonight when it travels to Loyola "Everybody's got a bump or a bruise." University of Chicago for its match with According to Petrucelli, freshman Kate the Ramblers at Halas Field. Fisher and senior Brenda Gorski will 
The ranking boost was due to the likely start tonight to spell their injured squad's performance in this weekend's teammates. games with top-ranked North Carolina The Irish will also need to guard and eighth-rated Duke. Although the against a letdown versus the weak Irish fell 3-0 to the Tar Heels, they Loyola squad after playing against the proved themselves to be a formidable likes of North Carolina and Duke. challenge to the perennial powerhouse. "I expect to be a little lethargic," said The team went on to prove its superiority Petrucelli. "It's important for us to fight to Duke in a 3-2 victory. through the mental let down that is 
After opening the season ranked 12th bound to happen." in the Intercollegiate Soccer Association "They're definitely not one of the of America's pre-season poll, the Irish stronger teams in the conference," said ascended to seventh after their first Irish tri-captain Alison Lester. "I think week of play. They reached a program it's going to be hard to get going at first." high third-place ranking after trouncing Lester, whose assist versus Duke lifted William & Mary in the end of September her career point total to 111, needs only but fell to sixth two weeks later after two more points to surpass all-time falling to Stanford in an overtime match. leader Susie Zilvitis. Zilvitis scored 43 
The Irish will face off with the goals and added 25 assists for 112 Ramblers in the first of three final road points. Lester has netted 40 goals and games which wrap up the regular sea­tallied 31 assists in her career. son. "I know it probably won't last too 
The Ramblers, owners of a 3-11 long," Lester said of breaking the record, record, should not pose much of a threat "but it's a nice personal achievement. It's to the Ir\sh. good to know that I've had that kind of 
In last year's match-up, the Irish pum­effect on our program." meled Loyola 11-0 in what was the high­"It would be a great honor and a well est scoring victory in program history. deserved honor for Alison," Petrucelli Sophomore Michelle McCarthy sccred a said. "She's been a consistent goal scorer hat trick and senior Tasha Strawbridge and a consistent threat for us for four added two goals in the massacre. years." 
The Irish will have to adjust to the con­Freshman Cindy Daws is also within ditions of Loyola's Halas Field, which is reach of the team's record for points in a bumpy and much smaller than Notre season. With eight goals and 17 assists Dame's Alumni Field. 
They will also have to deal with a vari­
see SOCCER I page 13 
.Inside SPORTS 
SMC Wrap-up 

Saint Mary's soccer and volleyball fall to University of Chicago. 
see page 13 

Club Scene Irish water polo goes 1-3-1 in Michigan tournament. 

see page 14 
) . , 

0aint s 



Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives The first site of Saint Mary's in Bertrand, Michigan, was the home of the sisters' school from 1844 to 1855. In 1855 the school was moved to the present campus on the banks of the St. Joseph River. · 
From humble beginnings, Saint Mary's College grew 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
W
hen two orphan girls were taken into a small novitiate to be educated by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, no one could have realized that this humble act would begin the 150 year tradition of Saint Mary's College. 
From the unassuming beginnings in Bertrand, Mich., to the move to the present day campus on the banks of the St. Joseph River, the history and traditions of the College are marked by struggles and triumphs, by growth and debt, but most of all they are embodied in the perseverance of its founders. 
It was in a letter from Sorin to Father Basil Anthony Moreau, the founder of the orders of Holy Cross, dated Dec. 5, 1842 where a call for sisters was first made and it was clear from the beginning that the intention was for them to do more than cook and clean. 
"They must be prepared not merely to look after the laundry and the infirmary, but also to conduct a school, perhaps even a boarding school," Sorin wrote. 
It was with this purpose that on May 30, 1843, three priests, a brother and four sisters set sail from Le Mans, France to relocate in North-cen­tral Indiana in an area known to them as the University of Notre Dame du Lac. 
Sister Mary of the Heart of Jesus, Sister Mary of Calvary, Sister Mary of Nazareth and Sister Mary of Bethlehem found a home in the second story of the log chapel where the ceilings were so low that they couldn't even stand erect. They tended to mending and household chores, but they were not content to pursue these tasks for long. 
With the arrival of three more sisters from France, they began studies in English as a step closer to the opening of schools. It was in the grand scheme of Sorin's and Moreau's visions that education for women be a part of the Holy Cross mission, even if at the time it was not a part of the American one. 
The vision was one step closer to a reality when Sorin requested that Bishop de Ia Hailandiere allow a novitiate to be opened at Notre Dame. He denied of the request because a struggling novitiate already existed in his diocese in southern Indiana and Sorin was forced beyond the state line. 
What he found was a small house in Bertrand, only six miles north of Notre Dame, which he bought from fur-trader Joseph Bertrand for $300. Little did he know that he had just acquired the home of Saint Mary's Academy. 
The wife of the benefactor, Louis Beaubien asked Sorin that in return for their gift that two orphan girls be educated. The Sisters received them in 1844 and the rich tradition of the Saint Mary's education began. 
The Sisters' school struggled the first year. Returned to Notre Dame was the meager income which barely covered the sisters' debts and the price of food and clothing. 
Within a year of the opening of the school the number entering the academy increased. 
More than 20 boarders filled the small school in 1848 the year of the first exhibition or com­mencement. It was in this year that the sisters' school officially received the name of Saint Mary's Academy. 
Those at Notre Dame were also beginning to have more confidence in the small and struggling academy. 
"This institution at Bertrand has already made a name for itself; and if it is only conducted wise­ly in the future, it will easily succeed," Sorin's Chronicles said. 
By 1850, the building was again enlarged to accommodate the growing number of students, which now totaled 50 from an expanding geo­graphical area. 
It was in the same year that the Academy pub­lished its first prospectus. Amid descriptions of the area and the campus, interested students 
see FOUNDING I page 2 




1842 Father Sarin and six brothers arrived in north central Indiana where 1854 Mother Angela Gillespie returned from making her novitiate 1863 Civil they founded what would later become the University of Notre Dame in France and became directress of studies at the Academy 
page2 The Observer • 150 YEAQ~ Of ~AINT MAQY'~ 
SMC, ND relationship dates back to the start 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH as well. Sainr Mary's Editor In a day where women were seldom left in charge of finances, the women of 
When the great fire ravaged the Notre Saint Mary's had their purse strings Dame campus on an April day in 1879, controlled by men as well-the men of there was a great sense of despair in the Notre Dame. Saint Mary's community. It was these ties between the two 
It was a time when a loss incurred at schools and the relatively far distance Notre Dame meant a loss for Saint between them that led University Mary's as well. President Father Edward Sorin to seek 
The fire destroyed all of the principal out a new home for the Academy. The buildings at Notre Dame as well as six-mile carriage ride was a long one, many records, books and manuscripts and the constant trek to the north took that chronicled the early beginnings of its toll on the administrators of the the University and the Academy. A part University. of both communities was lost. They traveled to Bertrand, Mich., to 
Saint Mary's helped Notre Dame give the students of the Academy exams. rebuild. It was neither the first nor the They traveled to bring food, clothing and 
last time that hurt of the one institution supplies to the growing Academy. Dame to use in the construction of was felt by the other. Eventually the novelty of trip wore off Sacred Heart. The money was all she 
Mother Angela Gillespie, directress of and efforts to find a new home, one clos­had solicited on a trip to the east for the studies at the Academy, issued a circu­er to Notre Dame, began. purpose of gaining funds for a similar lar letter asking that all missions solicit The income of the Academy had been venture at Saint Mary's. funds from friends for the erection of handed back to Notre Dame from the She was not aware of the Notre Dame the new college at Notre Dame. beginning. Most of the time this plan before she left on her trip, and 
A benefit gala held by Saint Mary's arrangement progressed smoothly, but knowing that the Congregation could not students produced more funds for the in certain instances, the men of Notre afford to build two churches, she con­rebuilding effort. Dame had problems making purchases ceded to allow a church to be built first 
And in 1884, the statue of the Blessed for the women of Saint Mary's. at Notre Dame. In a letter she said that Virgin Mary placed upon the top of the One account said that the purchasing "after a while I am sure that you all at golden dome was the final gift of the agent at Notre Dame bought items for Notre Dame will help to put up a chapel rebuilding project from the women of females that were both inappropriate in which we will be able to have Mass Saint Mary's Academy. and over-priced. Without money and the year round." 
In the early years the connection without adequate supplies, the sisters Tales tell that 16 years later, when between the two institutions was great. began selling artwork and needlework Saint Mary's undertook the building of When one lost, the other would grieve. for money to buy the needed goods. the Church of Our Lady of Loretto, the When one triumphed, the other would The relationship was a cooperative brothers at Notre Dame made the bricks 
share in the celebration. one. For the most part, their was no sig­and donated them to the sisters, 
The brother-sister relationship had to nificant loss or gain for either school. although no records of the occurance do with more than a sense of communi­It was in the spirit of cooperation that exist. ty, the relationship was a financial one Gillespie forwarded $3,452 to Notre It is stories of cooperation such as 
• • ' 
Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
these that one sees how the early tradi­tions of the two institutions is so inter­twined. The contributions were more than financial. 
"Father Sarin's great gift to the Sisters of the Holy Cross did not lie in financial benefits, it did consist in more important endowments-his extraordi­nary leadership and vision, his desire for a sisterhood and a Catholic women's college, his enthusiastic support of all that the sisters undertook, and his sus­tained promotion of the higher educa­tion of the small community in the early years," Sister Mary Immaculate Creek wrote in her book "A Panorama." 
It is this support of the sisters' school that was so needed in the early years, when women were so seldom supported. Without the help of those at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's may never have got­ten its start or become what it was yes­terday and today. 
' . • ' . l 
'' 
Founding 
continued from page 1 
were given a glimpse at the broadening academic life. 
"The institution possesses fine philosophical and chemical apparatus, globes and a plane­tarium," the prospectus read. "All means are employed to excite laudable emulation in the minds of the pupils, and strict attention is paid to the religious instruction of Catholic chil­dren." 
The prospectus also included wardrobe regulations for the students who attended the Academy, including a specified number of towels, napkins, cot­ton and woolen hose, chemises, nightgowns, caps, gloves, shoes, knives, forks and spoons, as well as the code for the uniform which was to be worn on Sundays and Wednesdays. 
On April 2, 1850 Saint Mary's was recognized as an academy in the State of Michigan in the Book of Laws, article 314. 
"The future of the house seems assured; the public have confidence in its teachings," Sorin wrote in Chronicles. 
In 1854, the young Academy was at a crossroads. The build­ings at Bertrand were filled with students who came from far away to receive a superior education, but more needed to be done to ensure the life of the small Academy in the stagnat­ing town. The distance from Notre Dame was becoming troublesome for continued interaction between the two schools as well. 
W
hat the Academy found was a leader and a new home.Mother Angela Gillespie (formally Eliza Gillespie) was appointed Directress of Studies at the Academy and it was under her leadership that Saint Mary's found its new home. 
The last commencement was held in Bertrand in 1855. The sisters packed up their belong­ings and moved the Academy building to a new campus on the banks of the St. Joseph River only a mile and a quarter from Notre Dame where the students began their studies at Saint Mary of the Immaculate Conception in the fall. 
Sorin negotiated the purchase of 185 acres of land from John Rush, the owner. The purchase price of $8,000 was paid by Sorin and a mortgage of $16,968.25 was handed over to the sisters. 
The year was a monumental one for Saint Mary's. The arti­cles of incorporation and the charter were legally granted to the school in that year by the state of Indiana. 
The purposes set forth for the school in the charter have con­tinued to be part of the mission of the College today. 
"The purpose of the Association is to establish an academy of learning...for the education of female students in the various branches of arts and science usually taught in female academies of the highest standing and to confer such degrees upon scholars as are usual in such institutions," the second article of the new char­ter read. 
A
lthough they did not exercise the right until 1898 this action made Saint Mary's the first Catholic college for women in the United States. 
Increasing enrollment made the accommodations on the new campus inadequate. The Academy (now Bertrand Hall) was built in 1862 to accommo­date the 250 students, their classes and their professors. 
With the increasing space Gillespie worked to increase academic opportunities for stu­dents as well. 
Answering the call for Civil War battleground nurses in 1862, Gillespie and other sis­ters left Saint Mary's, but in their absence the Academy con­tinued to flourish. 
The efforts of the founders and early directress' of the Academy, as well as those of the students and faculty were recognized by a newspaper reporter who attended the 1885 commencement. 
"Saint Mary's Academy, we believe, has justly earned the reputation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful collegiate institutions for young ladies in the United States," he reported. 
It was with a growing reputa­tion for academic excellence that Saint Mary's ending its pio­neering period. The sisters rec­ognized that struggles would still lie ahead for the institution, but they had some assurance that they had ended the period of uncertainty-a period where survival was of the utmost con­cern. 
Rather now, far removed from the first two orphan stu­dents, they were well on their way to influencing the world of women's education. 
8 
1844 The taking in of two orphan girls in Bertrand, Mich., by the 1855 Last commencement Sisters of the Holy Cross marked the beginning of Saint Mary's held at Bertrand campus 1859 Chapel of Loretto dedicated 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I t 
Four young 1843 1849 1850 1855 1862 
1 
Three priests, a First reference to the Saint Mary's Academy received its Saint Mary's Academy moved from Bertrand The Academy, latl ordained the brother, and four School at Bertrandas charter from the state of Michigan to a new campus closer to Notre Dame; dedicated; the roc first Sisters of sisters sailed from as an Academy under a new charter the Academy, then could only be reac the Holy Cross LeMans for the called Saint Mary's of the Immaculate the upstairs were 
United States Conception, became the first Catholic 
4 women were 
women's college in the United States 

• 1 ... 

Wednesday, October 20, 1993 The Observer •150 YEAQ<£> Of 6AINT Mi\QY'<£> page3 

00 

ac 



at the people, places and policies of Saint Mary's College 
Exams tested more than knowledge gained from books 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych 
In 1847 the total cost of tuition, room and board for stu­dents at Saint Mary's Academy was $30 a semester or about $6 a month. Day students paid a slightly lower rate. 
Saint Mary's first newspaper, Rosa Mystica, was completely handwritten and read to the entire student body on Feb. 1, 1859. 
In 1862, the governing coun­cil of Saint Mary's Academy decided that married women would not be admitted as stu­dents at the Academy. 
A telephone between the campus' of Saint Mary's Academy and University of Notre Dame was installed in 1879. 

The Observer/John Bingham 

(top) Mary Elizabeth Dennis the first valedictorian of the first graduating class at Saint Mary's. (bottom) Dennis' silver Latin maltise cross, one of six crosses awarded to graduates that year. The crosses were given to students in the early years as a gift of the Academy, a practice that continued until the late 1920's. 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Everyone at one point in their educa­tional career has felt the intense pres­sure of final exams. The endless hours of reading, studying and rereading vast amounts of material are integral in the art of passing an exam. Today, students are given syllabuses months prior to their exams in order to forewarn them. However, students at Saint Mary's Academy were expected to perform upon an evening's notice. 
Perform is the key word. Students at the Academy were expected to take pub­lic oral exams at the end of each term and at various unexpected points in the semester upon the command of Father Sorin. The exams, given orally by Saint Mary's professors and audited by select­ed Notre Dame professors, covered all aspects of the mandated course loads. 
The mother of playwright Eugene O'Neill, Ellen Quinlan, graduated from the Saint Mary's Academy Conservatory of Music in 1875. In O'Neill's autobiographical drama "Long Day's Journey Into Night," the character of Mary Cavan Tyrone, who represent his mother, talks of her experience at Saint Mary's in eight pas­sages in the play. 
In 1884, the statue of Mary, was placed upon the dome of the newly built administration building at Notre Dame. The statue was a gift of Saint Mary's Academy. Proceeds from a ben­efit concert were also given to Notre Dame to rebuild the new university after a fire on April 23, 1879 destroyed the campus. 
During the Civil War the daughters of Gen. William Sherman attended Saint Mary's Academy while many of the Sisters of the Holy Cross left the safety and shelter to act as bat­tleground nurses on the front lines of the war. Two of the cannons rescued form a burn­ing ship during the War were given to Mother Angela Gillespie. The Lady Polk and Lady Davis remained on display at Saint Mary's,until, as a show of support during World War II, they were given to the United States government as salvage. 
Father Sorin brought from Europe the rules and constitu­tion for an Association of Children of Mary. The rules were served to guide the spiri­tual life of Saint Mary's stu­dents. The Association was for­mally established in Bertrand in May 1852. 
In 1870 coursework in astronomy was required of stu­dents for graduation. 
"To prevent future mistakes, parents and guardians are hereby informed that a white dress with appropriate sash, is the proper costume for pupils 
These oral exams went above and beyond the notion of "finals" today. Students were required to use the infor­mation that they learned in class and in their text books by applying it to applic­able situations, rather than simply regurgitating facts. 
Sorin and the students were sitting in the garden in Bertrand, Mich. one Sunday evening in July 1855 when he announced that some of his colleagues, the experts in their fields, would be coming the following morning to exam­ine the students in the higher branches of the Academy, according to Sister Monica Wagner, assistant archivist and author of the book Benchmark which chronicles Saint Mary's history. 
The frightened and overwhelmed girls were caught off guard. As the Notre Dame carriages drew near, "every eye was nailed on the book or cast up to the ceiling in imaginary recitation,"accord-

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives 

Teachers and students of Saint Mary's Academy pose for a photo with the new typewriter bought in 1886. Funds for the purchase were allocated by the Council at Notre Dame, which controlled finances at the Academy until the two officially separated in 1889. 
at the closing exercises of the Annual Commencement. No silks, expensive laces or jewelry are to be worn. Pupils in the graduating class form no exception to this rule," read an addendum to the 21st Catalogue of Saint Mary's Academy in 1875. 
The studies for the graduat­ing class of 1851 consisted of two five-month sessions each ending in an oral examination. The curriculum studied includ­ed geology, trigonometry, men­tal philosophy, literature, Latin, French, German, botany,and general history. 
Four years after its opening 
ing to Benchmarks. 
The examiners began with mathemat­ics. However, they cast away the text book problems and rapidly fired innova­tive algebra, trigonometry, geometry, calculus and probability problems at the students. 
"The girls, warming to the work, for­got fright and for two hours professor and pupils became so interested in the various branches of mathematics that all forgot entirely that other studies had been ignored," said Wagner in Benchmarks. 
The professors were delighted with the knowledge that the students demon­strated. 
Sorin became restless during the lengthy exam. He sent Mother Angela Gillespie, directress of studies at the Academy to call the women and profes­sors for dinner. 
When asked if they were finished 
the name of the sisters' school was changed from Our Lady of Seven Dolors to Saint Mary's Academy. 
Minims, or grade-school age children attended Saint Mary's Academy in a program called the Preparatory Department. 
From the beginning of the Academy in Bertrand, two lev­els of students were accepted into Saint Mary's. The juniors and seniors were separated from one another in classes and living quarters. 
During the two day com­mencement ceremonies, stu­dents were awarded premiums 
Father Shawe, from the mathematics department, eased Sarin's fears by praising the students and asking for fur­ther time for examination. 
"Truly they are an honor to the thor­ough teaching here, and we hope Mother will permit us to finish the other studies this afternoon," Shawe said. 
The afternoon consisted of oral exams in History and many other subjects. The ­students successfully met the expecta­tions of the professors by recalling facts in no particular chronological nor con­necting order. 
"I just marvel at their achievements," Wagner said. 
The students of Saint Mary's Academy were able to complete the oral exams with ease, because they were accus­tomed to studying hard and retaining the new information. They were not learning for grades on an exam, but for a life time. 
I War nursing assignments made 
1870 Sister Eusebia took over as directress of studies at Academy 1873 Death of Father Moreau, founder 
1865 General William Sherman of priests and sisters of Holy Cross attended Saint Mary's Academy commencement 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
1872 er known as Bretrand Hall, was Upon the death of Sister )m for the first mass and celebration Eusebia, Mother Annunciata ched by ladder, because the stairs to named directress of studies 
still unfinished 1879
Association of Post-Graduates (later called the Alumnae Association) 
rniT 
1 1 

1879 Brigid O'Neill, future Mother Pauline and first president of Saint Mary's College, became a Sister of the Holy Cross 
1

1886 Mother Angela Gillespie again served as directress
TudieftheTdeml 
18 

.. 
Mother Angela 
8 
Gillespie died 
7 

and crowns, in addition to mal­tise crosses and diplomas. The highest premiums received ­were books of French works. The crowns awarded consisted of circlets of wax flowers. These were awarded for merit in politeness, neatness, order, amiability and correct deport­ment. 
Bricks used to build the Academy (now Bertrand Hall) were made from the marl and sand surrounding St. Joseph and St. Mary's lakes at Notre Dame. They were fired in the community kiln by students working their way through col­lege. 
( 
page4 The Observer •150 YEAQ~ Of ~AINT Mi\QY'~ Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
Sisters respond to call for Civil War nurses 
I
By LYNN BAUWENS 
On the homefront, enrollment at the News Writer College increased despite loss of faculty and resources. "The Sisters had nearly t was the evening of October 21, broken up their famous schools at South 1856. A messenger galloped across Bend and elsewhere to answer the the ground of Notre Dame in the demand for war nurses," Livermore twilight calling breathlessly for Father said. Sorin. By 1865, the last year of the war, The horseman carried an urgent mes­there were 265 students and three grad­sage from Gen. Grant, then commander uates. Many parents who sympathized of the North's forces at Cairo, Ill. He with the South sent their daughters to requested the aid of the Sisters of the Saint Mary's for protection. Holy Cross to nurse the wounded on the The Sisters were forced to diplomati­front. cally subdue rivalries between the stu­Sorin quickly crossed the field to Saint dents. especially when Ellen Ewing Mary's to present the appeal to Mother Sherman, Sherman's wife, enrolled their Angela Gillespie. daughter Minnie at Saint Mary's. 
Immediately, preparations began. 
The next morning Gillespie and six For their services the Sisters companions boarded the train for Cairo received 40 cents a day plus food beginning a tradition of service and of and lodging. They sent much of nursing that continues today. the money back to the College to finance 
Grant warmly welcomed the Sisters, the building of Bertrand Hall. 
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives 

shaking each hand and expressing his The Sisters on the battleground with the soldiers they were serving during the Civil War. In 1892, Congress made the surviving appreciation. Sisters eligible for pensions in recogni­"Mother Angela, I am very glad indeed prepared as nurses but our hearts made of religious life. tion of their service. to have you here and your Sisters with our hands willing and our sympathy "The Sisters of the Holy Cross were The Nuns of the Battlefield Monument us," Grant said. ready, and so with God's help, we did employed as nurses, and by their skill, was erected in Washington, D.C., to Later, Grant spoke of Gillespie to Gen. much toward alleviating the dreadful quietness, gentleness and tenderness commemorate those who sacrificed their Sherman as a "woman of rare charm of suffering," Mother Augusta Anderson were invaluable in the sick ward." she lives and the government placed mark­
manner, unusual ability, and exception­wrote. said. ers for army service on the graves of sis­al executive talent. .. ter-nurses in the convent cemetery. 
The majority of enlisted men suffered 
However, not everyone joined Grant in from "camp fever." They were homesick The original seven in Cairo grew These Sisters were more than nurses' 
welcoming the Sisters. When they and in need of attentive care which the to 63 Holy Cross nurses in 10 dif­aides-they were the forerunner of arrived to serve, they experienced today's professional nurses.
Sisters provided with limited resources ferent institutions forming the resentment from men who viewed them not asking whether the soldier wore second largest contingent of nuns. Eight They paved the way for the develop­
as "incompetent females." Even when blue or gray. of these served as the first Naval Nurses ment of nursing as a regularized proce­faced with the challenges of the all-male dure for caring for the sick and earned
When presented with an empty ware­on the United States hospital ship, the environment and prejudice against house in Louisville by Secretary of War Red Rover. respect for women in the ranks. "The Catholics, the Sisters endangered their Simon Cameron, the Sisters fashioned, Working on the front exposed the sis­world has known no nobler and more lives to serve. "the best military hospital in the United ter-nurses to many dangers. Several heroic women than those found in the 
They came to the front with little prac­States," according to Mary Livermore, nurses died from disease. One sister rank of the Catholic sisterhoods,"accord­tical experience as nurses. "We were not celebrated war nurse and previous critic even had a bullet pass through her veil. ing to Uvermore, 
Gillespie's leadership gives much to Saint Mary's and education 
' 

By LAURA FERGUSON for the higher education of only 50 boarding students, Assistant News Editor women what others had needed her polished teaching achieved for elementary skills and the difficulties and Sister Mary of Saint Angela instruction-to make it thor­poverty of the community
.' 
Gillespie, better known as sim­oughly Christian in character attracted her. ply Mother Angela, was one of and purpose... On April 17, 1853, Sister the molding hands of the Saint Mother Angela was born Eliza Mary of Saint Angela received Mary's community, both in the Gillespie on Feb. 21, 1824. the habit of the Sisters of the Academy and College. In 1842 Gillespie graduated Holy Cross. 
During her ground breaking with honors from Georgetown Upon her return to Bertrand 33 years of leadership, she Visitation Academy. she accepted the position as accomplished a great many She taught at Saint Mary's Directress of Studies at Saint things for the communities of Seminary in Maryland. There, Mary's Academy. Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, she introduced innovative As Directress of Studies, South Bend and beyond. teaching methods such as dis­Gillespie proposed adding stud­
Under the leadership of cussions following recitations. ies in language, art and music Gillespie, the Saint Mary's Outside the classroom, she to the existing courses which school of music earned a taught her students about included French history, lan­national reputation for excel­nature, literature and gave guage and literature, etiquette, lence. counsel to them when in need. sewing and needlepoint. 
She also published Ave Maria She was described during Under the guidance of profes­this period in her life as "distin­sors from Notre Dame, studies guished for her grace of man­in science, ethics and religion 
' Mother Angela ner and cultured and disci­were also included. plined mind." The year of 1855 brought a
spent her life in 
The events of a single year of drastic changes for thethe service of the com­evening, where she tended to Saint Mary's community. In munity...She loved it the dying mother of a friend, August the Academy moved 
led her to realize that she was from the site in Bertrand, Mich.
and if she had a fault, it 
called to serve God and His to its current site in Notre wasthatshelovedit community. Dame, Ind. She decided to become a Although busy with the rou­
too much.' 
member of the Sisters of Mercy, tine work as Directress,Father Sarin based in Chicago. Gillespie took on more projects 
However her younge-r brother in an attempt to benefit higher (a journal featuring distin­Neal, who was studying at education and the community. guished women writers), Notre Dame, urged her to con­With the assistance of her arranged for the construction of sider serving with a small, brother Neal, she compiled the Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives the Church of Our Lady of developing congregation near Metropolitan and Excelsior Under the direction of Mother Angela Gillespie, the academic reputa­Loretto and created heavy Notre Dame-the Sisters of the series of textbooks which tion of Saint Mary's grew. influential political ties both Holy Cross. became standards in education. 
accommodate the growing com­strength.
within and outside of the But Gillespie could not be She also established St. 
munity. She remained well enough to
church community. swayed from her decision. Catherine's Norman Institute in By the second year of the Civil assist in the rescue efforts ofIn addition, she founded f\ visit with Neal and the sis­Baltimore for Catholic teacher War, 220 st11dents were study­the fire at Notre Dame whichnumerous other institutions ters on her way to Chicago and training. 
ing at Saint Mary's. destroyed the entire existingaround the United States and some persuasion by University In August of 1860, Mother 
The following years were campus.
tended to innumerable ill men President Father Edward Sorin, Angela was elected Superior of filled with constant business. On March 4, 1887, Gillespieand women during the Civil Gillespie changed her mind. the Sisters at Saint Mary's and Gillespie established several collapsed for the final time and
war. She believed that the faltering Chicago in addition to her 
new institutions. passed away. Unfortunately,She managed "to accomplish academy at Saint Mary's,with duties as Directress of Studies. 
These new institutions she did not live to see the real­
The following year the ten­
reminded Gillespie of the pover­ization of her life's work-the
Editor's Note: EDITOR: Jennifer Habrych 
sion between the North and 
ty and simplicity that existed at approval of the Congregation of 
This uaion is th~ first ofsix spe­
South erupted into a bloody 
Bertrand and the dawn of Saint the Sisters of the Holy Cross in
cial sections commnnorating Saint PRODUCTION: Lynn Bauwens 
Civil War and Gillespie and the 
Mary's. She continued to the United States in 1889.
other Sisters of the Holy Cross
Marys College and its 150·ytar tra­
improve education at the "Mother Angela spent her life
responded by volunteering their
ditUm. GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan 
Academy. in the service of the community.
services in the war effort.
Sp«ial thtznlts angivm to Sistn' 
Following the death of her .. She loved it and if she had a
Enrollment at the Academy
Rosa/em ~nkavy and Sistn PHOTOS: Courtesy of College 
brother her fatigue began to fault, it was that she loved it too 
was up and Academy Hall (now 
Monica Wagntr ofCo/kgt Archivts. 
Archives 

take its toll on the woman of much," Sorin said. 
Bertrand Hall) was built to 




