

University or the beliefs of the bisexual issues -just like our Catholic Church." mission statement says," Floan 
Students 
"Any group based on sexual said. "As long as that's our preferences has no place," he mission, that is what we will added. continue to do with or without 

to attend 
A statement by Saint Mary's the administrations approval." President William Hickey reads Currently, Floan said "if the college, as a Catholic GLND/SMC plays an important 

march

institution, were to provide role in offering education on sponsorship, it would be r.ec­homosexual issues to all mem­
Special to The Observer 

ognizing the homosexual bers of the Notre Dame com­lifestyle as an acceptable one, munity. He said recognition which it is not in the eyes of the would facilitate distribution of Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sChurch." the groups resources. 

tudents and alumni and will

But statements from both 
oin together with over one iriil­Saint Mary's and Notre Dame "We have lots of gays and 'on others in a March onWasb­also said that each institution lesbians come to us for guid­

ngton for gay and lesbian

does recognize and is willing to ance," Floan said. "Professors 'ghts on April24. 
provide services to individuals and other student groups come who need counseling regarding to us as well for information." The march is expected to be homosexual issues. Some alumni groups are also he largest civil rights march in 
"Whatever needs gay and becoming involved in working erica's bistory. according to lesbian students have, we are towards establishing a more ric Floan, co-chair of Gays and trying to meet them," Rocca liberal atmosphere on campus, esbians of Notre Dame and said. "The administration, Uni­according to Chuck Colbert, a aint Mary's (GLND!SMC). One versity counseling services and member of the alumni board of 
oup of students and alumni campus ministry are all doing directors for the Notre Dame ·n be carrying a green andwhatever we can, but we just Club of Boston, Mass. 

old banner inscribed with

do not believe recognizing a gay "This can all be worked out Lesbian and Gay Fighting Irish and lesbian group is the way to reasonably in the spirit of 
f Notre Dame and Saint

go." However, Flo an said he and Catholic social justice and ac­ary's."
other members of GLND/SMC tion," Colbert said. "We are have different feelings. very brave people to be saying "Some of us are going to 
"GLND/SMC is first and fore­who we are and we want to be arch as a group from Notre most a group for support, edu­part of this family like every ame, but I estimate there are cation and community building one else with the same rights thers going as well," Flpan for those concerned about and and responsibilities as everyone aid. "I think some of Clinton's interested in gay, lesbian and else." 
see MARCH I page 6 

Agents search Waco compound rubble 
WACO, Texas (AP) -Some Clinton defended Attorney doomsday cultists may have • Clinton reaction/ page 6 General Janet Reno, who ap­been shot trying to flee "Ranch • Jonestown recalled/ page 6 proved the FBI effort to use at Apocalypse" before others least two tanks to knock holes started the inferno that left the fire that ended the cult's 51-in the compound walls and scores dead, investigators day standoff with federal tear-gas the cult members out, searching the still-smoldering agents; there were nine sur­but said, "I signed off on this." ruins said Tuesday. vivors, four of whom remained Clinton ordered federal 
Whatever happened in the hospitalized Tuesday. agencies to investigate events final hours at the Branch David­Investigators began pulling that led to the fiery end of the ian compound Monday, federal bodies out of the rubble, but standoff. Two congressional in­agents -under intense were slowed because vestigations also were an­scrutiny for starting a tank-and­"ammunition was still cooking nounced. tear-gas assault that apparently and exploding" in the wreck­• Five cult members 
precipitated the fire -said age, said FBI agent Jeff Jamar. who survived the blaze ap­responsibility for the carnage Officials said it could take two peared in federal court, wear­rests solely with the group's weeks to gather all the evi­ing orange jail suits and leader, David Koresh. dence. shackled by the ankles. One of 
President Clinton echoed that Among developments Tues­them, Remos Avrram, told re­sentiment. "He killed those he day: porters that an FBI tank spray­controlled," Clinton said at the • The Clinton adminstration's ing tear gas into the compound White House. handling of the case was had knocked over a lantern and 
Koresh and 85 others, includ­sharply questioned by victims' started the fire, and that the ing 17 children under age 10, relatives and attorneys, politi­cult had "no plan for suicide." were believed to have died in cians and observers worldwide. see CULT I page 4 
Editor's Note: The following is the first of a three-part series examining the place of gays and lesbians on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 
As gays and lesbians across the country continue to pursue a national referendum for their rights, Notre Dame may be breaking fresh ground in ac­knowledging and helping the homosexual population on campus. 
Although Student Affairs de­nied a homosexual group, Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), recognition almost a year ago, the University may be taking steps in helping develop a forum to discuss gay and lesbian issues on campus. 
These steps include a litera­ture course allowing students to study homosexual influence in writing and a pending counsel­ing program for gays and les­bians to be offered by Campus Ministry next year. 
"Things are opening up on campus and it's interesting where they are opening up at," 

By ANN VENESKV 
News Writer 
Nearly a month ago, educator ane Elliot visited Notre Dame speak out against white 
upremacy in America and to resent a workshop on · scrimination. 
At the conclusion of the pre­entation, which was sponsored y the Office of Minority Affairs ith the aid of the Lily oundation. participants were 
·nvited to fill out a survey to valuate their own personal be­iefs and attitudes concerning acism. 
The survey included a list of tatements, followed by a list of assumptions on which the 



utlaw: Racism workshop yields positive results 
statements were based. For example, according to the sur­vey, a statement such as. "Some of my best friends are black,"may actually reveal "and insidious patronizing atti­tude [and] suggests a superior position of the white person since it is the whites that choose and the blacks that must be chosen." 
Attached to the lists of state­ments and assumptions was a page denoting a series of ac­tions that could be taken by the individual to combat racism. 
According to Iris Outlaw, of the Office of Minority Affairs. "if participants found themselves to be racist in a particular wa.y, they were encouraged to select 
see SURVEY I page 4 
said Eric Floan, co-chair of GLND/SMC. "I think it is be­coming more of an issue be­cause as the student population broadens from different back­grounds and geographic areas. they just realize that gay and lesbian issues are becoming a national topic of conversation. It's certainly not taboo any­more." 
Notre Dame first denied GLND/SMC recognition as an official student organization in 1986. Both then and last year, the University held that an offi­cial homosexual groups con­flicts with University's Catholic character, according to Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. 
"We have our reasons for not recognizing these groups on particular grounds," he said. "Recognition of a gay and les­bian group carries with it an explicit lifestyle which does not keep in the teachings of the 
page 2 Wednesday, April 21, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Take a stand: make a pledge against racism 
In case you haven't noticed yet, it's time to make a pledge. 
It's time to sign your John Hancock and let everyone know that you are taking a stand and 


making  a  pledge  Kenya Johnson  
against racism.  Accent Editor  
Last Thursday, March  
15, a list of names ran  

in The Observer of those-=-w:-.hcco::-t::'h-=-aa.,......,.aT:fr""e-=-a-:rdy::-:-::m=-ade their pledge. That Jist contained a total of 96 names. 
Seeing as our school has about 8,000 un­dergraduates, 2,000 graduates and a very large number of professors, administrators and staff, 96 is not a very impressive number. 
Yet I cannot be a hypocrite and preach about what a shame it is that this number is so low, because if you were to strum your fingers along the names and stop in the 'Js', you won't won't find Kenya Johnson listed. 
I saw the first ad , which originally ran in February. And I did mean to sign it and turn it in. Really I did. 
But, you know, things got hectic. I had papers to do, friends to call, and movies to see. Besides, I didn't really have scissors nearby, and it was going to be a hassle to look for them right away. Plus, I honestly didn't have the time to grab an envelope, write the address down and drop it in the campus mailbox right downstairs in the lobby of my dorm. 
I mean really, I'm a college student with a lot of things on my mind. Ijust kinda forgot. 
Forgot? 

Yes, I forgot to take a pledge against racism. It was right there and I put it down and walked away from the issue. 
I trust that there are more than 96 people out there who believe in this pledge (it's at least 97 with me). But the hard, cold truth is that those of us who may have seen the ad, and probably thought of signing it, decided that it just wasn't very important at the time. 
But racism is important, at every time. Everyone's experienced some form of it, some more than others. 
Some have said that they don't need to make the pledge because they have already "rid themselves of prejudice, bigotry, rac;sm and stereotyping and to work to enhance racial understanding in our community." 
If this is true, then wonderful. Let it be known that you've already made that pledge to yoursel and to others. Be proud of that accomplishment and let your name be associated with that pledge. 
But let's also not fool ourselves either. Most o us harbor some prejudices or believe stereotypes about one group or another. We need to acknowledge that these prejudices exists within us, not deny them. 
And we need to take the pledge that we will work to understand and learn about these groups, in order to remove our prejudices and help others to remove theirs as well. 
So I today hung up the telephone, looked for the scissors and sent my pledge in. Won't you 'oin me? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News 

Accent Frank Rivera 
Lis Heard Matt Carbone Lisa Wolter 
Sports Kim Massman 
Production 

Jason Kelly Meghan Kelley 
Kevin Dolan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 21. 

80s 
COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L a ISSJ !TIJ 0 h fxxxi ~lk 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Aa$oei818d P/'8S8 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
NICOS A, Cyprus -Iran's chief justice said Tuesday that the death sentence against British author Salman Rushdie will stand even though the man who issued it is long since dead. An IRNA reporter asked whether the edict against Rushdie had to be renewed by a living religious leader following the 1989 death of Ayatollah Khomeini, who had pronounced the sentence four months earlier.Khomeini condemned Rushdie for his novel "The Satanic Verses," which the Iranian cleric called blasphemy. Iranian leaders have maintained since that the sentence, or fatwa, is irreversible.On Friday, fran warned that British trade with Muslim countries could suffer if Prime Minister John Major met with Rushdie, who was born in India but is a naturalized British citizen.A spokesman for Major said his officti was in contact with Rushdie to arrange a meeting. The spokesman called the fatwa "outrageous." 
INDIANA 

Notre Dame, IN-The Notre Dame Grounds Department will be spraying American Elm trees on campus during the next one to two weeks. This spray program is part of an extensive Elm preservation program that is carried out 
OF INTEREST 
• 
A Fulbright Grant Information session for graduate students interested in the 1993-94 Fulbright Fellowships will be held at the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune today at 4:00 pm. All graduate students who may require foreign travel for their research should at­tend. 

• 
An effective interviewing workshop is being offered by Career and Placement Services to learn how to interview confidently and turn interview stress into job offer success. Through discussion and role-playing you can learn the interview process. You never get a second chance to make a first impression. The workshop is takes place today from 6:30-8:30 pm in the Foster Room at LaFortune. 

• 
Boys Hope representatives will interview prospective volunteers at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday from 10:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Boys Hope is an in­ternational child care organization for boys and girls that provides family-like homes and a Jesuit-influenced 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING April 20 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 317,069,300 -1.30 to 245.72 S&P COMPOSITE -2.36 to 445.10 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -23.50 to 3443.49

UNCHANGED 581 GOLD ·$0.40 to $339.90/oz 

SILVER +$.017 to $3.927/oz 

annually to protect the approximate 150 Elms that remain on campus. The trees are being sprayed with the insecticide Methoxychlor to control the Elm Bark Beetle, which spreads Dutch Elm Disease. Methoxychlor is effective for controlling this pest and is proven very safe for people and the environment. Anyone wishing further information should contact the Grounds Department, or the office of Risk Management and Safety. 
Paster sales help homeless 

Notre Dame, IN-Sales of the "Irish Impact" poster, depicting a dramatic goal line stand during last year's Notre Dame/Penn State football game, have raised more than $40,000 for South Bend's Center for the Homeless. According to Bill Mowle, a senior from West Lafayette, Ind., and managing editor of Notre Dame's yearbook, 4,000 posters have been sold to Notre Dame students, parents, alumni and friends since the fundraising project began last February. He expects an increase in sales between now and the University's commencement exercises on May 16. "Irish Impact" posters are on sale for $10 each at the center and at LaFortune Student Center. Posters may be ordered by mail by sending a check for $15 to the Center for the Homeless, 813 S. Michigan, South Bend, Ind., 46601. Further information may be obtained by calling the center at 282-8700. 
college preparatory educational program for capable and needy youths. Interested persons should stop by the Center or contact Cary Martin at (314) 544-1250 for details. 
• 
Applications for graduate students interested in the Center for the Homeless fall internship program can be picked up at the Center for Social Concerns. The deadline has been extended to Friday, and applications can be dropped off at the esc. 

• 
Two members of the Association of Art History Students at Notre Dame have been selected to present their research Friday at the Ohio Area Symposium at Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio. Only 12 students have been selected to present their research at this ali-day symposium. Senior Vincent Fazio will present research on a work in the Snite, Giovanni Coli and Filippo Gher­ardi's "Apostacy of Solomon." Holly Koons, a second year graduate student, will present research on the work of American artist Mary Cassatt. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 753 B.C., according to legend, Rome was founded. 


• 
In 1789 John Adams was sworn in as the first vice president of the United States. 

• 
In 1816 author Charlotte Bronte, who wrote Jane Eyre, was born in Thornton, England. 

• 
In 1836 an army of Texans led by Sam Houston defeated the Mexicans at San Jacinto, assuring Texan independence. 

• 
In 1967 Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of Soviet leader Josef Stalin, arrived in New York. 

• 
In 1972 Apollo 16 astronauts John Young and Charles Duke explored the surface of the moon. 

• 
In 1975 South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu resigned after 1 0 years in office 


FORECAST 
Cloudy and much colder today with highs around 50. Mostly 
··· 
sunny and cool tomorrow with highs in the mid 50's. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  49  33  
Atlanta  78  54  
Bogota  68  50  
Cairo  86  63  
Chicago  39  37  
Cleveland  73  56  
Dallas  71  54  
Detro~  69  46  
ndianapolis  65  48  
Jerusalem  68  50  
London  70  52  
Los Angeles  88  63  
Madrid  77  50  
Minneapolis  55  34  
Moscow  41  34  
Nashville  67  59  
New York  70  56  
Pans  73  46  
Philadelphia  75  55  
Rome  63  45  
SeaHie  73  52  
South Bend  57 45  
Tokyo  55  52  
Washington D.C.  78  56  




straight 
Youth Sports 

athletic and enrichment activi­ties for economically disadvan­taged boys and girls aged 10­16. 
Registration begins today for the program which runs July 5 to Aug. 6. 
Director Demetrius Marlowe considers "Sports Camp" a bit of a misnomer. 
"Athletics is just the carrot on a stick, he said. "Our most con­certed effort is enriching the kids' lives," through various enrichment programs. 
These include alcohol and drug education, personal health and hygiene, career op­portunities and job responsibil­ity workshops. Last year's pro­gram under Marlowe more than doubled the minimum re­quirement of 15 total instruc­tion hours. 
"Our philosophy is to impact the kids through role-modeling, always engaging them to think and question whether or not they are making choices ... that will benefit or hurt them in the long run," said Marlowe, also a University athletic-academic advisor. 
"Our long range goal is to ex­pose youths in urban areas to an enrichment program that they would not receive had someone not reached out," said Marlowe. 
Exposure to higher education is also a unique and vital expe­rience for the kids, Marlowe added. "Otherwise, they say, 'I don't belong there (in higher education). It's not a part of my environment.'" 
Marlowe said feedback from 
phone surveys gave resounding 
support. Children seemed most 
ecstatic, Marlowe reported. 
"I especially liked learning 
how to swim," said Keonnis 
Taylor, 12. "They also taught us year, Marlowe expects to enroll 300 and fill a waiting list of an additional 100. He anticipates the difficult task of turning peo­ple away, citing limited facilities and a tight $40,000 budget. 
The program calls for 90­percent of the kids to meet the Department of Health and Hu­man Services family-income poverty-level qualifications. This applies to 40-percent of St. Joseph County youths, accord­ing to Marlowe. 
The federal Department of Health and Human Services has provided $12 million for the 25th annual NYSP to 173 institutions, benefitting 69,064 youths. Outside contributions provide an additional $5 mil­lion, including $660,000 from the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
The first orientation and reg­istration session will take place from 4-6 p.m. today at the Northwest public housing de­
By LYNN BAUWENS News Writer 

Last year, the Country Har­vester sent out at least 3,000 boxes in the two weeks before finals, according to owner Rose Horak. 
The Country Harvester may have the solution to the prob­lems of increased shipments with daily UPS service and ex­tended hours from their shop located in the lower level of LaFortune Student Center, ac­cording to Horak. She encour­ages students to avoid the rush by preparing their pac,kages before the week of finals. · 
They offer regular ground service, next day air and COD deliveries for packages weigh­ing up to 70 pounds with a combined length and girth of up to 130 inches. 
"Look for upcoming 
coupons," said Horak. "We of­fer the standard UPS rates on campus." 
The services include $100 free insurance on each pack­age. They also provide shipping tape and address labels to pre­pare cartons for delivery. 
Computers, word processors, typewriters and televisions should be sent in their original cartons with the original pack­ing to ensure safe delivery, said Horak. Boxes should be prop­erly labeled with complete ad­dress labels and an additional identification inside the pack­age. 
Before bringing a box in for shipping, Horak advises mak­ing sure that it is sturdy and properly secured. UPS guide­lines tecommend that boxes be cushioned with material such as crumpled newspaper. In order to maximize space and weight, students may pack items such as clothing to cush­ion heavier items such as books, said Horak. By spread­ing out the weight, the rate will be better. 
The Country Harvester has been on campus for four years. Besides the UPS service, they sell greeting cards, Notre Dame memorabilia and various crafts including the popular Irish VIl­lage, authentic woodcuts of University buildings. 
To better accommodate stu­dents' needs, the Country Har­vester will extend its normal hours during finals and Com­mencement. They will be open May 3 -8 from 9 a.m. to 6 
p.m. and during Senior Week from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. After Commencement, hours will be from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday and Fri­day. 

velopment, 1846 N. Meade St. 
For more information, call Library, coffee shop to be open 24 hours 
Demetrius Marlowe at 631­ 
4619.  By BEVIN KOVALIK  
News Writer  

In an effort to provide stu­dents with abundant study ar­The Rites of Spring eas during finals week, Student Government will fund the Res­
For burgh Library and Allegro Coffee Shop to keep them open 24 hours beginning May 2 until midnight May 7, according to Jackie Macy, Hall Presidents' Council co-chair. 
The study area in the base­ment of LaFortune Student Center will also remain open 24 hours beginning April 29 until 




Juniors 
• Bookstore Basketball 
midnight May 7, she said. 
"Student Government urges students to take advantage of this opportunity so that it will continue to be made available in the future," Macy said. 
"We know the space is needed and we are glad it is available for students 
since last year it was so suc­cessful," she added. In other business: 
•The Government Honors Society will sponsor Project Passagon to collect school sup­plies to benefit Passagon, a needy school in western Mrica, according to Julie Longstreth, project committee member. From April 26 until May 7, col­lection boxes will be located in all dorms, the Student Gov­ernment Office, and Decio Faculty Office, she said. 
•Student Government will provide summer book storage for students participating in the "Book Fair," according to AI Marchetti, Grace Hall co-presi­dent. Students can bring their books to be stored to the Ca­vanaugh Room in LaFortune from May S-7, he said. 

Meet ngs 
are held the fourth Sunday of each 
• Christmas In April WeareParents 1month from 2:00-4:00 pm at Christ the King
&Friends 
ILulth•~r::~'n Church on 17195 Cleveland Road 
otLesbians &~ays
• Blue-Gold Game 

Gay people are part of the family. 
Our gay sons and lesbian daugh!Alrs have parents, grandparents, sisters and brothers, cousins, aunts and uncles, nieces and nephews they love and care for, and who can and should love and care for them. 
• Resume 

Parents, relatives, and friends of lesbians and gays don't think of homosexuality in statistical tenns. We don't care ifgays and lesbians comprise 10% of the population or 1.5%; ifthere are 25 million gay 
Submitted To Career 
people in the U.S., or under 5 million. Our gay and lesbian friends and relatives are people we love, respect, and support. We know them to be moral, upright, responsible members of a society which often finds no

and Placement Office 
kinder words to describe them than 'excrement: or 'disease.' We know better. We welcome concerned and supportive members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College community to our membership.

For Resume Books 
P-FLAG 
Post Office Box 4195 
South Bend, IN 
46634-4195 
ach person who attends our meetings has the to expect the following protection and the 
What is said in our meetings, as well as the llt1•1nt.rtls's ofpeople attending, is to be kept 


State agrees to some demands of hostage-holding inmates 

LUCASVILLE, Ohio (AP) -spokeswoman for the state The state has agreed to change prison system. said today the or at least review a number of message "affirms our intention prison rules that hostage­to negotiate in good faith." holding inmates have cited in Also today, inmates met with their demands during a deadly a lawyer, and about 10 workers standoff, inmates were told. who appeared to be medical 
"These demands have been personnel went into the prison. reviewed and signed by the Officials did not explain why the administration so we can end medics were there. this in a peaceful manner," said The inmates have held a cell­the voice on the loudspeakers block at the state's maximum­aimed at the inmates' security Southern Ohio Correc­barricaded cellblock. The tional Facility prison since a speaker was not identified. riot April 11, when they took 
The message read to inmates eight guards hostage. At least late Monday and today asked seven inmates and one guard that they bring one of the re­have been killed. Two hostages maining hostages with them to were released last week. the bargaining table. Reporters outside the prison
. . 

made, the fingers of blame that have been pointed, all make no difference here -they are empty and meaningless as we
continued from page 1 

mourn the loss of each child's 
The FBI said its snipers saw life." cultists setting blazes and that a • State officials were trying to survivor told investigators that determine the best future for lantern fluid had been poured surviving children who were throughout the wooden com­made orphans by the fire. 
plex. Thirty-six people, 21 of them 
Jaime Castillo, 24, was children, had left the compound charged with conspiracy to after the siege began. The murder federal agents. Being state's Child Protective Services held as material witnesses were division has custody of 11 of 
Avrram, 31; David Thibodeau, them; 10 others were released 24; Derek Lovelock, 37; and to relatives. Graeme Craddock, 31. "Most of the 21 have lost at 
• 
Texas Rangers at the com­least one parent, and some pound began investigating the have lost both parents in the deadly shootouts that erupted fire," said Stewart Davis, a at the beginning of the siege, spokesman for the Department during raids Feb. 28 by federal of Protective and Regulatory Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Services. agents. Four agents were killed "We are working to place and 16 were wounded while these children on a temporary trying to execute search war­and eventually a permanent rants for alleged firearms viola­basis that will be in their own tions. Koresh had said six best interests." cultists also were killed in the At the compound, which the shootouts. cultists sometimes had called 

• 
Gov. Ann Richards joined "Ranch Apocalypse," early Waco residents at a memorial searches indicated that some of service in a small downtown them may have been killed by church. "Now I think it's time gunfire before the blaze began, 


for us to heal," she said. Jamar said. Waco Habitat for Humanity One body with a gunshot 
director Jo Pendleton told the wound was found in the re­mourners: "The 10 billion mains of the buildings, but it words that have been written, was uncertain when that per­the speculations that have been son was shot, Jamar said. 
Office of Minority Affairs, but were kept in each participant's


Survey 

own confidence. The Office of Minority Affairs
continued from page 1 

has completed a successful a certain action and concen­lecture and presentation series trate on carrying it out for their for the year, and are currently own self-improvement." planning for the future. 
"Participants in the workshop "We have discussed topics 
responded to the survey very well," said Outlaw, "Many students want her [Elliot] to NOTRE come back again, and these are white students." 
The actual results of the sur­vey were not reported to the 


Address 
continued from page 1 
very talented and gifted peo­ple," said 0' Neill. "I wish them 

Reserved seats: 
the best of luck." 
$7. Students

"The success that Frank and 
and senior 

Nikki have already had is very 
citizen discounts 
impressive," said Butrus. 
are available

Flynn also told of plans to 
Wed., Thu. and 
work on improving communi­cation concerning campus is­

Sun. Tickets sues, the forming of a Student 
are available at Advisory Board and attempts to 
the LaFortune create access to 24-hour space. 
Ticket Office. "Our goal is to put the stu­
MasterCard and dent back into student gov­
Visa orders call: ernment," said Wellmann. 
631-8128. "Please encourage us in any way you can." 
Wed. April2l"If anybody's got an issue 
-Sat. April 24 they want to discuss, they can 
at 8:10pm
talk to us about anything, any­
Sun. April 25 at 
time," said Flynn. "We're not 
3:10pm
here to be above the students, we're here to be one of the stu­

WASHINGTON HALL
dents." 


oners' demand that Warden Arthur Tate be replaced. 
Authorities declined to elabo­rate on what the concession of­fers meant. Among the points made in the loudspeaker mes­sage: 
• 
No retaliation would be made against inmates or their property. 

• 
Communication with in­mates on quality of life ques­tions would be improved. 

• 
Transfer of eligible inmates to other prisons in Ohio and elsewhere would be done promptly. 

• 
A surrender would be wit­nessed by a religious leader. 


• Mail and visiting privileges 
. . . 

"There might have been people killed who were trying to get out of the compound," he said. 
Jamar refused to comment on reports that the FBI had a listening device planted inside the compound before the as­sault began. 
FBI spokesman Bob Ricks said there was speculation but no confirmation that cult mem­bers poisoned the children to ease the terror and pain of the end. 
At least one burned body found several feet away from a compound buildings was re­moved Monday. Justice of the Peace James Collier said identi­fying dead cultists would prove difficult. ''I'm sure a lot of them, especially the children, are going to be totally cremated," he said. 
Jamar and other FBI agents have said they believe many cultists gathered in a concrete "cinderblock" room at the cen­ter of the compound before the fire, perhaps to escape tear gas. But Collier said cultists may have -been spread throughout the compound when the fire began. Investigators couldn't immediately get into the cinderblock room. 
Jamar said children in the compound could have survived the fire if Koresh had ordered them into a buried bus on the grounds. 
such as stereotypes, and the betrayal of Ahanas (African ­Americans, Hispanic-Ameri­cans, Native Americans)," said Outlaw. "Next year, we need to go further. We need to focus on attacking social issues and uni­fying." 

tion of a new phone system would be speeded up. 
• 
FBI would monitor prison to ensure civil rights are upheld. 

• 
The Department of Health will be consulted about tuberculosis testing. Muslim inmates had claimed the mandatory tuberculosis tests violated their spiritual beliefs. 


Jim Mayers, a spokesman for the Department of Rehabilita­tion and Correction, said he would not comment on the message or the negotiations. 
Kornegay said negotiations on Monday with the inmates were "positive." 
Three inmates today met with attorney Niki Schwartz, an 
in on 
Source: Waco Tribune·Herald, eyewitness accounts, AP research Bnan Sipple, Waco Tnbune-Herald, AP 
Notre Dame Litu presents 

Sing unto God 

Ministry-Badin Hall 
__________Apt.#__ State:___Zip:___ Please send copies of Sing unto God 
@ $9.00 per tape or 
$12.00 per Compact Disc. $___ 
Plus shipping & handling (75¢ per item) $___ 
Permanent Placement: 
• 
Full or part-time Caregivers who come to your home on a regular basis. 

• 
Share a Nanny 

• 
Summer Nanny Temporary Service 

• 
Sick child care 

• 
Occasional day or evening care 

• 
Overnight or weekend care 




Wednesday, April 21,1993 The Observer page 5 


South Dakota Governor dies in Iowa plane crash 
PIERRE, S.D. (AP) -At 6­feet-5 and 250 pounds, George Mickelson was a giant of a man with big dreams who followed his father into politics and rose to governor six years ago. 
Mickelson, 52, and seven 
other people were killed Mon­
day in a plane crash near 
Dubuque, Iowa. Federal inves­
tigators waded through a 
muddy farmlot Tuesday, looking 
for clues to what caused the 
state-owned turboprop plane to 
go down in a rainstorm. 
The Federal Aviation Admin­
istration said the pilot reported 
engine trouble before attempt­
ing to reach the Dubuque air­
•port. Also killed were two state officials, Roland Dolly and Ron Reed, and two pilots and three businessmen. 
Lt. Gov. Walter Dale Miller, 
ANC, government trade bitter accusations in South Africa 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -The African Na­tional Congress accused Presi­dent F.W. de Klerk on Tuesday of failing to stop violence against blacks and threatened "pressure upon pressure" until new elections are set. 
In a bitter exchange that has continued since the slaying of black activist Chris Bani, de Klerk said the ANC was trying to win political points from the murder. 
"They turned the funeral into a political event which was ex­ploited for every ounce of politi­cal advantage that could be wrung from it," de Klerk told Parliament. His comments came a day after tens of thousands of 67, was sworn in Tuesday afternoon as South Dakota's 29th governor. "Together we can accomplish all he wanted to accomplish for us," Miller said in an emotional tribute. 
Mickelson was remembered as a man of the people, an avid outdoorsman who championed Indian rights and occasionally mowed a neighbor's lawn. 
"How many people can say they have the governor for his lawn boy?" said Orrin Juel, the mayor of Brookings who has a cabin near Mickelson's on Lake Poinsett. 
Mickelson was tireless in his efforts to boost the state's economy. The crash came on the return leg of a business trip to Ohio. 
"This great big guy with the beautiful smile, he really put 
people attended Hani's burial and millions of blacks boycotted work to honor the activist. 
While both the ANC and gov­ernment say the slaying will not stop their negotiations on ending apartheid, each side has accused each other of acting in ways that will slow progress. 
News reports said that some Conservative Party parliamen­tarians were under investiga­tion in Hani's April 10 murder and that more arrests were imminent. Clive Derby-Lewis, a former member of Parliament and a high-ranking Conserva­tive leader, is being held for questioning. 
Police arrested Derby-Lewis after questioning Janusz Walus, 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON lAWAND GOVERNMENI' 
PRESENTS PROFESSOR RUSSEU HTITINGER CATHOUC UNIVERSI1Y OF AMERICA 
ON 

"POLJ11CS AND RIGHI'S IN CASEY Jt: PLANNED PAREN/1100D" THURSDAY, APRIL 22 12:00NOON ROOM 220 -lAWSCHOOL 
COURTROOM 

•1/4 
Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms 

•2 
Bathrooms 



South Dakota first," said Mary Wagner, a former state law­maker from Brookings. 
His humility and sense of humor will be missed, said Richard Helsper, a friend and former law partner of Mickel­son's. 
Helsper recalled a time when the newly elected governor drove into a gas station and paid with a credit card. The cashier doubted his license plate was correct because it carried only the number 1. 
When the cashier asked how he got that number, Mickelson replied: "Just lucky, I guess." He never told the cashier he was governor, and such incidents kept him from getting a swelled head, Helsper said. 
Mickelson is survived by his 
a member of the neo-Nazi Afrikaner Resistance Movement who has been charged in Rani's murder. 
As de Klerk spoke, a Conser­vative Party member of Par­liament, Willie Snyman, dumped a bag of coins in front of de Klerk and accused him of a sellout for dismantling apartheid. Snyman and another Conservative politician heckling from the gallery were thrown out. 
London's metropolitan police commander and anti-terrorist expert, George Churchill-Cole­man, has agreed to help inves­tigate Rani's murder, the at­torney-general's office an­nounced Tuesday. From 1985 wife, Linda, and their three children. 
Equally at home in a four­wheel drive pickup or a luxury car, Mickelson enjoyed hunting, fishing and other outdoor sports. He was frequently seen boating on the Missouri River reservoirs near Pierre. 
From the beginning, George Speaker Mickelson seemed headed toward life in politics. The Legislature passed a reso­lution giving him his middle name because his father, Ge­orge Mickelson, was speaker of the state House when his son was born in 1941. 
The son later became speaker himself and was elected governor in 1986. He was sworn in exactly 40 years after 
until last year, Churchill-Cole­man was commander of Scot­land Yard's anti-terrorist branch, whose chief responsi­bility was stopping Irish Re­publican Army operations in Britain. 
Detective inspector Michael Jones of the British anti-terror­ist squad also will take part in the probe, which the ANC said should not be conducted solely by South African authorities. 
The assassination of Hani, who was head of the Commu­nist Party and one of the ANC's most popular leaders, has fu­eled militant anger toward de Klerk's white-led government. 
"De Klerk has totally failed to take action against these forces his father had taken office. He was re-elected in 1990. 

Mickelson, a Republican, ac­knowledged that politics came naturally to him, and he named his father as the politician he most admired. 
who continue to kill our people, a·ssassinate our leaders," Communist Party leader Joe Slovo told a news conference. "In every direction, de Klerk's government continues to sit on its hands." 
The ANC and its closest allies, the Communist Party and the Congress of South African Trade Unions, said they would begin several weeks of strikes and protests May 1 to force de Klerk to announce a date for multiracial elections. 
The groups want de Klerk to announce an election date by the end of May. De Klerk says he expects the vote to be held early next year but has not set a date. 
U.S., Germany make unprecedented exchange of wartime troop command 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­The United States and Germany are transferring NATO wartime command of thousands of each other's soldiers in an unprecedented move that will put Gis under German officers and Germans under U.S. orders. 
The exchange reflects NATO's need to combine forces into multinational corps given national troop cutbacks. It is also a departure from Washing­ton's traditional reluctance to allow foreign generals to su­pervise its troops. 
"The United States has not in the past designated any of its forces for operations directly under the command of others," said U.S. Army Gen. John Galvin, former chief of European forces for the 16-na­tion North Atlantic Treaty Or­ganization. 
"If the balloon goes up, the plan would be for that division to chop (pass) to the German corps," said Galvin, now at West Point Military Academy in New York. 
At Thursday's ceremony in Giebelstadt airfield, about 50 miles southeast of Frankfurt, Germany, the U.S. Army's 1st Armored Division, based at Bad Kreuznach, will be attached to 
•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 

•Covered 
Parking 

•Security 
System 


•Large Balconies CALL Now FoR APPOINTMENTS 

272-0691e. 
Going Quickly $660°0 er month 
the German army's 2nd Corps. Germany's 5th Panzer Division will go to the U.S. 5th Corps, based in Frankfurt. 
The 16,000 to 20,000 troops in each division will not move from their bases. Each multi­national corps will total 50,000 to 75,000 soldiers. 
Each nation will also assign six bilingual officers to the other's corps headquarters of several hundred personnel. The specialists will take part in training, intelligence, commu­nications and logistics. 
"The German division is an equal partner in the planning process of the 5th Corps, which has never been done before," said Lt. Col. Dick Bridges, the corps spokesman. 
The command arrangement would come into play during a crisis, when control of national troops is transferred to NATO's chain of command of U.S. and European officers. At the top is 
U.S. Gen. John Shalikashvili. 
In peacetime, the troops re­main under national control. 
1\vo other multinational corps are also planned -one German-Dutch and another Danish-German. The command structure of the four multinational units will be in place by 1995. 
GROUNDHOG 0AY (PG) 5:00,
7:30 
THE SANDLOT (PG) 4:30, 7:00. 9:30 POINT OF No RETURN (R) 10:00 
INDECENT PROPOSAL (i!t) 4:45, 7:15,9:45 


page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 21,1993 

Clinton orders investigation, defends decision on assault 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton ordered an inves­tigation of the assault on David Koresh's compound Tuesday, but said there was no need for his attorney general or anyone else to resign "because some religious fanatics murdered themselves." 
Clinton said he had approved plans to pump tear gas into the Texas eompound and would ac­cept full responsibility. But he also said that Koresh "killed those he controlled, and he bears ultimate responsibility for the earnage that ensued." 
lie called the cult leader "dangerous, irrational and probably insane." 
At a news conference in the Hose Garden 24 hours after the hellish end to the 51-day siege, Clinton ordered the Justice De­partment and the Treasury De­partment to investigate "whether anything could have been done differently" to avoid the fiery end of the siege. 
The House Judiciary Commit­of tear gas to flush out Koresh and his followers. She also told him FBI agents would not fire on the compound. 

Heno pressed for action against the cult members be­cause "the danger of their do­ing something to themselves or to others was likely to in­crease" and beeause hostage experts in Waeo might be needed elsewhere. She also feared for the children inside. 
Clinton said he and his top law enforeement official talked about what could go wrong, in­cluding the possibility of mass suicide, and that Heno said the FBI was "convinced that the ehances of bad things happen­ing would increase with the passage of time." 
The incident took on a politi­cal edge Tuesday, with the White House denouncing re­ports that Clinton had distanced himself from the tragedy for 24 hours. 
Guyana recalls Jo-nestown tragedy 
GEORGETOWN, Guyana (AP) -People here have seen it all before: the prophet, his cult, the deaths of his followers. The big difference was that the tragedy ofJim Jones' People's Temple was far deadlier than the fiery end of David Koresh and his disciples, 
The November 1978 mass suicide of more than 900 people shamed this South American nation for years, and Guyanese noted Tuesday the similarities between Jonestown and the destruction of Koresh's cult complex in Texas a day earlier. 
Jonestown "was a lesson for all,'' yet the world did not learn, Sharif Khan. editor of the Guyana Chronicle, told The Associated Press in an interview from his office. 
"This is almost like what happened at Jonestown. They (American authorities) had all the· signs from the beginning just like we had in Guyana, and yet they were not able to deal with it successfully." 
Fourteen years ago, Khan ventured to Jonestown with 
U.S. Rep. Leo Ryan seeking to get children and others out of the camp following reports of abuses. Jones' henchmen fired on Ryan's delegation at the airport and the California congressman was killed, prompting Jones' suicide order to his flock. 
"Jones was also a charismatic leader who appeared to have people under his spell, like Koresh," Khan said, adding that Jones engaged in similar stalling techniques to thwart investigations. With Jones in mind. the American authorities should have wasted no time "neutralizing" Koresh, Khan concluded. 
After the Jonestown tragedy, Guyana President Forbes Burnham tried to distance himself from the jungle refuge he had protected, calling the disaster "an American incident" because most of those killed were U.S. nationals. 
The opposition blamed Burnham for permitting arms at the remote site in Guyana's northwest, near Venezuela, and journalists accused his government or accepting money and sex from Jones' followers in exchange for silence. 
Julie Johnson, 14 at the time, remembered how frightened she and others who lived not far from Jonestown were at the news of the .Jonestown tragedy. 
Questioned Tuesday on a Georgetown street about the Texas cult, the fearful memory forced an almost reflexive answer from the former schoolteacher. 
"Live-in cults should be banned,'' she said. "You never know what's happening inside. It was the same thing with Jim Jones. He had all those guns and nobody knew." 
Guyana has tried hard to forget Jonestown. The site is nearly overgrown, and suc­cessive governments have made no effort to place a monument there. 
Jones was a former Christian Church {Disciples of Christ) minister from Indianapolis. 
tee already plans to begin hear­ings on the matter next week, 


March 
Save

and other investigations are likely. Rep. Jim Traficant, D­continued from page 1 
Gewantto talk to you ... 
Ohio, said there is plenty for 

cabinet members are
Congress to look at. 
The

speaking-it's kind of hard to
"When you have 100 TV 

The Office of University Computing (OUC) is acampus
ignore a million of the people who that's not a well thought out voted for you." 
crews but not one fire truck, 

service organization. Its mission is to meet the various plan, that's box office," he said A reception for Notre Dame and 
needs ofthe campus community. To better understand

Bald

on the floor of the House. Fire Saint Mary's students, alumni and trucks arrived at the scene well staff will be held April 24 at the 
these needs, the OUC directors plan to visit adifferent part
after fire ripped through the atrium of the Main Building at 

of the campus every day of the week of Aprill9-23. Come
compound. 

Georgetown University Law 

Eagle!
Rep. Henry Hyde, R-111., said, Center from 5 to 8 p.m. 

talk with us. Hear our upcoming plans, and let us know
"I'm reluctant to politicize this. 

A similar march held in 1987l think that would be a very 
what we can do to better serve you.
drew over SOO,OOQ people.
foolish thing to do. On the other hand, there are questions of 


SCHEDULE
competence, questions of effec­tiveness." 


server 

Monday , April 19 3:30-5:00 131 Decio
Clinton firmly backed the ac­tions of federal agencies in Tuesday, April 20 12:00-1:30 121 Hayes-Healy

is now accepting applications 
Waco, Texas, saying the FBI "made every reasonable effort 3:30-5:00 262 Stepan

for the following paid positions:
to bring the perilous situation 

Conference Room to an end without bloodshed 
Wednesday, April 2 l 3:30-5:00 258 Fitzpatrick
and further loss of life." Federal officials said the in­Thursday, April 22 3:30-5:00 Fosler Room,

Assistant News Editor
ferno that destroyed Koresh's Lafortune Centercompound was started by his followers. More than 88 cult Friday, April 23 3:30-5:00 121 Main Building

News Copy Editor
members -including 17 chil­dren -apparently died in the 
Light refreshments will be seNed. 
blaze. 

Please submit resume and a 1-2 page personal Clinton said Attorney General 
statement to Meredith MCCullough by 5 p.m., Friday, 
Office of University ComputingJanet Heno briefed him on 
University of Notre Dome Sunday and "described gener­
April23. Contact Meredith at 239-5303 for more 
information.
ally" the plan, inducting the use 
NEED HELP MOVING HOME ? 




Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Apartments Available at 
MAIL BOXES ETC. will be 


8250 per month 
ON CAMPUS 

Features include (in all units): 
to help you 

• New Carpet 
ship your things ! 

• New Appliances 
AT THE STEPAN COURTS : 

• New Cabinets 
May3-8 10 AM-~PM 

• New Security System 
May 13-15 NOON ~PM 
May 17 1 0 AM -3 PM 

• New Landscaping 
AT THE LYONS COURTS : 

• Fenced Parking 
May 5 -8 1 0 AM -5 PM 

Come see the changes we have maile. You won 't be disappointed! 
* FREE PICKUP * 

For •ora lalo caD: 
Call 277-6245 For Details 

232-82.
And Dorm Schedule. 






Viewpoint 



As more and more Americans are noticing, President Clinton does not speak our language. Rather, he speaks Clintonese, a language superficially similar to English, but containing many highly unusual concepts. Clintonese is really only understood by liberal "policy wonks," for whom it is a native language. 
A number of moderates and conservatives have tried to learn Clintonese, but most (including myselO have had to give up due to severe nausea and/or high blood pressure ap­parently caused by their stud­ies. Nonetheless, Clintonese is an important language of which ordinary Americans should have at least a basic knowledge. 
Based on the research of those with cooler heads and stronger stomachs than I, I have compiled the following list of Clintonese phrases and translations. 
Big Heart: 1. Support for abortion on demand, gays in the military, and affirmative action. 2. Necessary require­ment for any Supreme Court nominee. 
Bosnia: 1. Kuwait (to the Clinton administration). 2. Vietnam (to the military). 

Campaign Promise: Some­thing which "the American people would not think me re­sponsible if I kept." (Bill Clin­ton, Feb. 12, 1993) 
Clintonomics: A policy of government-led economic growth based on the ·principle of "from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs." 
Contribution: New age word for higher taxes on those who benefited most from the past twelve years. (see also : Those Who Benefited Most From the 

DOONESBURY 
YOU'Re ReP-DUKE, RESENTING OUK&, 
7HE~ NOTTO 
CREWr 511), WORRY, Ya/M/5ERAIJI.& BA&... :aAleaJI6... / 
___,..~-"'""' / 
Rick Acker In My Opinion 

Last Twelve Years) Deficit Reduction: Raising taxes faster than spending. 
Fair Trade: Measures by the American government to pro­tect its workers from outside competition. (see also: Unfair Trade) 
Foreign Policy: 1. Escalating American involvement in Bosnia and campaigning for Boris Yeltsin. 2. Is to Bill Clin­ton what honesty was to Richard Nixon and grace was to Gerald Ford. 
Gridlock: Republican attempt to block Democratic legislative initiatives. (see also: Prevent­ing Bad Government) 
Health Care Reform: A gov­ernment -run system which will provide health insurance for all Americans, substantially lower health care costs without reducing quality, and will not require any new taxes at all. Health care reform is being de­signed by Hillary Rodham Clinton and will be imple­mented by Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny. 
Hillary Clinton: First Lady, supporter of family values, cookie baker, and traditional wife and mother. Often profiled in Good Housekeeping, The Saturday Evening Post, and similar publications. 
Hillary Rodham Clinton: Co­President in charge of health care, cabinet appointments, and keeping Bill in line. Profiled in Cosmopolitan, Ms., and similar publications. Does not bake cookies. 
Infrastructure Building: Fed­eral grants for emergency projects such as building tennis courts, roads, and swimming pools in the districts of powerful Democrats (Note-many con­servatives shorten definition to "porkbarrel"). 
Investment: Clever camou­flage word for "spending." 
Last Twelve Years: 1. Period of record economic growth, low inflation, low unemployment, and world peace. 2. Something which must never happen again because it occurred while a) conservatives and capitalists were in charge, and b) there were no gays in the military. 
Middle Class: Everyone whose annual income does not exceed the cost of a new jogging track for the White House. 
Policy Wonk: Anal retentive poli-sci geek, usually liberal, who loves large and exhaus­tively detailed policy plans with titles like "Improving Quality and Competitiveness in Amer­ica's Medium Sized Rubberband Industry." 
Preventing Bad Government: 
Democratic attempts to block Republican legislative initiatives during the Reagan and Bush administrations. (see also: Gridlock) 
Those Who Benefited Most From the Last Twel11e Years: 1. Anyone who makes $25,000 per year or more (Note-definition based on Clinton budget proposal). 2. People who must "contribute" to "infrastructure building," "deficit reduction," and other Clinton projects. 
Unfair Trade: Measures by European, Japanese, or other foreign governments to protect their workers from outside competition. (see also: Fair Trade). 
Rick Acker is a 1992 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School and is currently doing research there. 
Gf?-6 bLA"BA \)IN G 

GARRY TRUDEAU 

WEU WCK YOU IN ATFOX, 
YOU CAN'T IT'5 NaT MY AN{) THEN PUT TH& CRew 
fiGURe 0/JT FIW~T, MAN. 
RJ6HTS 8ACI< INTO PLAY! IF 
14/HO 7D SC/?E:IAJ MY 5HRJNI< 7Hg PI?OJECT 6&!<3 6RE&N­
FIRST, CAN PJON'T m/JRN l.IGHTW, Wt.U.. PUlL YOURS, 
YaJ,51/J? MY CAlLS. ANO... UM... ND_ 
'·~~/
WAITAM1Nlf!l3... 
/ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies." 
Oscar Wilde 

Choose wisely! Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
_j 
-----------~----------_...---~------~ 
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, April 21, 1993 
r
I I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Many possibly misunderstand 'Catholic character' 
Dear Editor: 
James Lucot Jr. writes (The Observer, April 15) that those who have beliefs at odds with Catholic teaching should "look in the mirror for an arena to complain and object instead of every campus publication and administrative body." Those who support "homosexual rights or abortion, or have an abhorrence for parietals or Catholic teaching" should, in ef­fect, keep their views to them­selves. 
Mr. Lucot justifies this claim by arguing that no one forced such dissenters to come here, and that their dissent is unwar­ranted in light of their consent to abide by the University's rules and regulations. 
Mr. Lucot, I think, overlooks one very crucial fact in making this claim. It may be true that the Catholic character of the University was well known to him from childhood. But noth­ing in his letter indicates why this should be true of any and all students who apply, and then matriculate here. 
In fact, I think, many of the people he describes simply may have incorrectly estimated Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter in coming here. Some may simply have had no way of knowing what the phrase "Catholic character" really meant. And believe me, none of the literature the University sends such students reveals the meaning of that phrase with any clarity. So the issue is not as simple as Mr. Lucot suggests. 
My own situation is a case in point. I am an atheist with ethi-
A--rHEilST ~u11?.. 
I 


cal and social views very much time of my application that at odds with those of the Notre Dame would be any dif­Catholic tradition. I applied to ferent than, say, Georgetown, in Notre Dame on the basis of a respect of its "Catholic char­recommendation made to me by acter." Both institutions say that a professor at my under­they are "research communities graduate school, who recom­in the Catholic tradition" (or mended Notre Dame's philoso­however the cliche goes). phy department as suited to my But Notre Dame takes its interests. Catholic character quite seri­
He was right in many ways, ously, whereas Georgetown is in and I enjoy working here. But I all respects a secular institu­had no way of knowing at the tion. There is no foolproof way 
documents that support it, are
'Sol2.1<"j 1o l£AO ~ou ON; 
intended to chart the course of this university for the next ten to twenty years. 
"B~~ [ r\G~ s No JoB 
Among the changes that have been proposed, none is more important, and none more
0 P£{\11 N 6 s T I AL.L 

disturbing, than that which deals with the hiring of new\ faculty. This proposal would \ make it a requirement that: "All who participate in hiring faculty must be cognizant of and
• responsive to the need for dedicated and committed Catholics to predominate in number among the faculty." (cf. Recommendation 1 of the Report of the Committee on Academic Life, published in the February 26th special edition of Notre Dame Report) . 
To be cognizant of something is to have knowledge of it. Therefore, the proposal just quoted would impose a re­quirement of knowledge on all who take any part in the hiring of new faculty -a requirement that they know there to be a "need" for "dedicated and committed Catholics to predom­inate in number" on the Notre Dame faculty. 
In addition, it would require that this knowledge be so po­tent as to move those having it to action. 
This raises the question of what is to happen to those who find themselves unable to attain such knowledge. According to the requirement set down in 
Dear Editor: 
Next month, the president of this university is scheduled to make his final report on the 
· 

Colloquy 2000 to the Board of Trustees. This report, and the of knowing how to evaluate the claims made in glossy promo­tional literature. By the time one is in a position to make an informed judgment, it is too late. That is why someone can enter an institution that "had ideals or requirements that one did not agree with or found personally incomprehensible." 
As many recent writers in these pages have made clear, I think Notre Dame has got to make some hard choices re­garding its Catholic mission. What, precisely, is its attitude toward the teachings of the Catholic Church? Given an an­swer to that, we need to ask: what is its attitude towards the non-Catholic members of its community-be they Protes­tants, Jews, Muslims, atheists or whatever? Finally, what are the conflicts that arise from adopting goals involving Catholicism on one hand, and doctrinal pluralism on the other? 
There are people here who think that the University should, in effect, be a Catholic boot camp-a staging ground for a perpetual war on liberalism and modernity. There are liberal Catholics who labor under the delusion that the University can somehow retain its Catholic character by officially sanctioning anti-Catholic teach­ings. These views obviously contradict one another, but one wonders at times whether the University officialdom wants to have it both ways. Somewhere, somehow, something has to give. 
As a non-Catholic, I feel I have very little of substance to add to this debate. I do think the debate can be much im­proved if those who participate in it see the issues a little more clearly. One precondition of that is that one take account of the facts with a little more sen­sitivity than Mr. Lucot did in his letter. 
lrfan Khawaja 
Off-Campus 
April 15, 1993 
Catholic predomination in faculty hiring should be considered 'serious business' 
Recommendation 1, they are to be excluded from the hiring process. 
Specifically, they are to be de­clared ineligible to participate in faculty/student votes on hir­ing decisions, ineligible to serve on departmental committees overseeing appointments, and ineligible to serve as chairper­sons of departments (since chairpersons typically sit on such appointment committees ex officio, and also have the power to submit their own hir­ing recommendations directly to their deans). 
Clearly, this is serious busi­ness. Clearly, too, it is disturb­ing business. For it requires knowledge of a claim whose truth has yet to be established. Certainly the claim that there is a "need" for dedicated and committed Catholics to "predominate in number" on the Notre Dame faculty is not self-evident. It is, to say the least, something about which rational, reflective people of good intention can have serious doubts. It is even something that such people can believe to be false. 
Indeed, there are experts on the subject of secularization of American universities (e.g. Professor James Turner of the University of Michigan) who maintain just that. 
How, then, is the requirement of knowledge imposed by Hecommendation 1 to be justi­fied? It seems doubtful that it can be. This being so, it would seem to be minimal wisdom for the president to put off making his report to the Board of Trustees until the Notre Dame community has had more time to consider and discuss Hec­ommendation I and the various other recommendations of the Colloquy 2000. If you agree, I'd be pleased to hear from you. So, too, would the Faculty Senate, who have recently circulated a poll to all faculty on these matters. 
If either you did not receive a copy of this poll or you have misplaced it, you can obtain another by contacting Harriet Flowers (the secretary for the Faculty Senate) in 234 Decio Hall (ext.l-7612). 
Michael Detlefsen Professor of Philosophy Apri116, 1993 
Viewpoint 
is seeking 
IDU\11\Lm for the 
Fall1993 
semester 



Accent 
Wednesday, April 21, 1 993 page 9 
It's Showtime 

~~Julius 
Caesar,, 
comes 
to the 
stage 

By AMY NEWMAN 
Accent Writer 
"Caesar! Caesar! Caesar!" A restless mob of followers impa­tiently chants. A bright, strong young leader holds, just for a moment, a golden crown. One might picture this scenario with ancient white columns and men in togas. 
However, this will not be the case when William Shakespeare's "Julius Ceasar" is performed by the Communication and Theater Department Wednesday, April 21, to Sunday, April 25, in Washington Hall. 
Notre Dame students and fac­ulty will see Shakespeare's work performed with a new twist. The characters will be dressed in modern styles, rather than traditional Roman attire. The setting will also remain simple and modern instead of an elaborate ancient Roman background. 
The cast and crew feel that this setting will create a timeless atmosphere that can take place anywhere. 
Reverend David Garrick, C.S.C., director, said that the 
"Shakespeare•s issues are timeless. They relate to all people." 
-Kathy Slover 

actors did not dress in Roman clothing during Shakespeare's time. They dressed Elizabethan, which was modern for his time. 
"We want to make this production immediate for our time. It's a timeless story in a modern setting," Garrick said. 
Chris DelliCarpini, who por­trays Ceasar, feels that the mod­ern costumes are effective. He hopes that people will not be distracted by this contemporary background, but that they will understand the idea behind Shakespeare's words. 
"What we have to do is get our message across. It's our responsibility to convey the 

Perhaps this is a question that one will be able to answer after seeing thi~ timeless classic. 
nontraditional twist to this of that's the heart of the to hold on to it?" production -women played traditionally male roles. Kathy Slover, who plays a soldier, thinks that these uncon­ventional additions will make the audience understand the theme of Ceasar better. 
"It will make people think about the play more than when they see it in the traditional way," Slover said. "Shakespeare's issues are time­less. They relate to all people." 
Other aspects of the play will not change. For example, these students will recite the same lines that Shakespearean actors quoted centuries ago. Stephen Laucirica, who portrays Oc­tavius, understands the impor­tance of Shakespearean verse. He said, 
"Every line is so rich. There's always something going on." He also agreed that the timeless social issues presented in Ceasar will give the audience something to think about. 
Several actors in Ceasar had to make special preparations for their roles. Bruce Auerbach, technical director, trained the soldiers and conspirators against Ceasar in the martial arts for the battle scenes. 
Slover thought that the fighting scenes were the most enjoyable to learn. She said that the battle scenes appear real because "you just see an illusion of the fight as a whole and not every detail." 
DelliCarpini was also trained for these scenes. "The fight scenes were difficult to learn. Not only is Shakespeare chal­lenging physically and vocally, but his work challenges you in­tellectually as well," he said. 
The audience will confront the intellectual challenge of Shakespeare's work when they try to determine the theme of Ceasar, and how they can relate it to their lives. The theme can have different meanings for each individual. Garrick has a 

Student actors rehearse a scene from "Julius Caesar.' 

Accent

page 10 Wednesday, April 21, 1993 

Rob Schupansky 
SUPWITDAT? 


DART: The rides not taken 
0 
nee upon a time there was a little boy named Joey, and Joey had a dream. His dream was to visit a particular 
fun-park. It was a popular fun park 
that had commercials on NBC. People also had 
shirts and mugs and posters that had the name 
of the park on them. It was called "Domer 
Land" and it was famous indeed. 
Joey worked hard for a long time, four years 
to be exact, and he saved up enough money to 
get visit Domer Land. He thought about all the 
different rides he could try there. Joey was 
excited about the idea of going there and 
couldn't wait to hear from them. You see, not 
everyone could go to Domer Land, only a 
certain few could visit. After waiting a very 
long time, all of Joey's work had paid om He 
finally found out he could go. He was visiting 
for four days, and he couldn't wait. 
He packed up some things and otT he went. 
What rides would he try? There were so many 
it was hard to decide. Joey didn't mind 
though, he thought he could try any of the ones 
he wanted. He read the list of rides that 
Domer Land sent him and smiled. Little did 
Joey know how wrong he was. 

When Joey reached Domer Land, he was not 
allowed on any rides except a certain few 
small ones. Lots of people were on these rides 
and they weren't very exciting for Joey. The 
Domer Land workers said everyone must get 
used to these rides so they could ride bigger 
ones without being scared. Joey understood. 
He figured after the first day he could ride the 
best rides so he went on the small ones and 
made the best of them. 

The next day Joey was excited. He ran to 
the big rides but the workers told Joey that he 
had to ride small rides still because third and 
fourth day visitors were using all the big rides. 
Joey was sad. These new rides were a little 
bigger but they were still slow. Joey dreamed 
when he could ride any of the rides he wanted. 
He left after the second day and he was sad. 
He had worked so hard to get to visit Domer 
Land and they didn't let him on the rides. He 
thought, "tomorrow has to be better." 
On the third day Joey ran into the park. There was a man telling all the third and fourth day visitors to follow him. So Joey and the rest of the crowd followed him into a room where they were handing out numbers to the people. Joey received number one hundred. He did not know what the number was for until the man started calling out numbers and asking the people to pick five rides they wanted to try. 
By the time it was Joey's turn there weren't many goods rides left to choose from. For some rides you needed to have tried another ride before you could get to try that one. With others you needed to be at Domer Land four days before they'd let you on. Joey was sad and cried. He wasn't getting to try any good rides. The third day ended and Joey left, hoping he would get the rides he wanted on his last day. 
The last day came and Joey got number Sixty-Seven. It was better but not as good as he hoped. Joey got to try two big rides and two medium rides that day. He was feeling OK but not as happy as he thought he'd be. Little Joey left Domer Land that day and went home. 
At home Joey's mom and dad asked him what he thought of Domer Land. Joey said, "It was nice." He went upstairs and began to think about his visit. He wondered about all the great rides he heard and read about that he never got to try. He wondered about all the fun those rides could have been. Little Joey didn't like not getting to try those rides. Later that night in the corner of the room he saw that list of rides Domer Land sent him on the floor and thought to himself, "SUPWITDAT?" 
Rob Schupansky's column appears every other Wednesday. 
Services Adventures Incorporated offers students a Russian summer 
By ELISABETH HEARD western Tajikistan, a Central Asian Restoring the Mother River of Russia. 
Assistant Accent Editor Republic, which will give them critical It will be taking place from July 15 to 
insights into the behavior, ecology and August 16 and cost $1,900 plus round 
Imagine spending the summer in evolution of dinosaurs. trip air fare. Open to 24 students 
previously forbidden forests or (two groups of 12), sites include both 
seeking out rare archaeological Other locations include Kugitang Russia's beautiful forests and its most 
discoveries in a far away land. How Park, Hissar National Park, and a industrialized areas. 
about working with international controversial site in Gumatag, Participants will have the opportu­
experts to develop strategies for Uzbekistan which creationists use to nity to work with experts in aquatic 
protecting the environment? argue against the antiquity of the ecosystems, botany, forestry, and 
Services Adventures Incorporated dinosaurs. resource management in the attempt 
(SAl) gives students a unique The participants will assist to make a positive difference in these 
opportunity to participate in historic scientists in mapping, tracing, and areas. 
projects that couple Western, Russian photographing the tracks at the sites, "This is a very unique experience," 
and Central Asian expertise, and as well as studying the bones in order said Monte Roulier. president of SAl. 
takes them to foreign countries like to make a valuable contribution to "We do two to three projects each 
Russia, Turmenia and Uzbekistan. geology. year which deal with an 
This summer there will be three The third expedition is entitled interdisciplinary approach solving 
research/adventure expeditions in Volga Research Expedition problems." 
Russia and Central Asia. The students have the 
The project titled opportunity to work with top 
Samarkand -Lost Cities United States and Russian 
takes students to study scientists in trying to help and 
monuments of ancient improve the conditions. 
cultures on the famous Silk "This is one of the few 
Road of Uzbekistan. programs where people are 
It will take place from exposed to different issues, 
June 2 to June 30, and will and the student's input 
cost $2,200 plus round trip counts," said Roulier. 
air fare. There are openings Most of the students come 
for 15 participants, who will from Cornell and Berkley, but
!' /; :. 

have the opportunity to the program is interested in learn about past and present recruiting people from every-Central Asian culture here, including Notre Dame. 
1/ .\ 

through visits to Samarkand, ', "This program is for those Pendjikent, Bukhara, people who are intellectually
1

Tashkent and Moscow. curious," said Roulier. "It has 
The goal of the project is 11 1 an environmental focus, and to lay a foundation for gives people the opportunity to cooperation between ork in a very obscure part of Western and Central Asian the world. Some are totally experts and call attention to immerse in the culture, and the need for preservation of they realize that it really these invaluable sites. makes a difference." 
Another project is There are still positions 
Dinosaur Trackways, taking available in all three of the 
place from June 18 to July programs. The entire fee is 
15. This fee is also $2,200 due by April 30, and covers plus round trip airfare, and ground transportation, includes 12 participants. accommodations and most 
These participants will meals. If interested, contact visit and study three Monte Roulier at (303) 892­dinosaur tracksites in 5743. 
L-------------~~~----------------------~ 
Earth Week celebrates the environment 
By BECKY RITZERT educate the students on environmental issues and show 
Accent Writer them what they can do to help solve the problems, Carroll 
said. 

Recycle that can. Support the National Bottle Bill. Turn off extra lights. Simple yet effective ideas such as these On Wednesday the club will display 3-foot-tall stacks of are the messages that Students for Environmental Action newspaper on Fieldhouse Mall along with facts about (SEA) wishes to convey to the community through the recycling. Each stack represents the tree necessary to activities of Earth Week, April 20-25. produce that number of newspapers, said Smith. Next According to George Smith, co-year SEA hopes to begin a program for students to president of SEA, the club hopes to return their copy of the Observer for another "increase awareness of the to read before it is placed in a recycling seriousness of the environmental bin, said Carroll. Then fewer copies of the crisis and some of the things we newspaper would have to be can do to help remedy it." printed, she explained. 
A "fortune lollipop handout" will 
The idea of Earth Week stems take place at the dining halls on from the nationally recognized Thursday and two compressed Earth Day which is celebrated natural gas cars owned by the each year on April 22. Earth university will be on display at Day was established in 1970 and Fieldhouse Mall on Friday, said "was responsible for getting a lot Carroll. According to Smith, Notre of public pressure for keystone e owns six such vehicles and the environmental regulations," ex-display will demonstrate "something the university is plained Smith. doing" on an administrative level. 
He cited the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Saturday's activities will be held on Fieldhouse Mall in Act as examples of legislation that benefitted from conjunction with those of Cavanaugh Hall's "Naugh Fest" the public support demonstrated on Earth Day. and will feature Earth Jam as well as booths sponsored by Smith said SEA (then known as the Environmental various student organizations. Bovine Solution will kick Action Club) began Earth Week as part of the off Earth Jam at noon. They will be followed by Chisel, nationwide celebration of the twentieth anniversary Victoria's Real Secret, and Dissfunktion. Recyclin' Irish, of Earth Day. one of the groups sponsoring a booth, has planned "four 
Environmental legislation is again an Earth Day different games that have to do with recycling," said focus as the National Bottle Bill, which would Recyclin' Irish vice-president, Maureen Brown. 
I require all states to institute a bottle deposit 11 The games will help students understand the regulation, will be introduced in Congress on organization's recycling efforts while offering Thursday, said Smith. So on Tuesday, to kick off "prizes for everybody," said Brown. Other Earth Week, SEA gave students the opportu-student organizations which will also nity to support the bill by signing a petition .lfll!.~-a.----•......-lllliio....;;:> have booths to promote at LaFortune that will be sent to Indiana environmental awareness include congressmen. If the bill passes, it will "greatly increase Pax Christi, the Native American Student Association, and the amount of glass recycling in the U.S.," said Smith. the Biology Club. "It's amazing how many concerns tie in 
Although she said she doubts anyone is "anti-with the environment," commented Smith. environment", SEA member Amy Carroll feels that some To conclude Earth Week, a mass will be celebrated at people "may think the problem is overwhelming." To the Grotto at 5 pm on Saturday. Father Michael Himes will combat that notion, SEA has planned a variety of events to be the celebrant. 

--------------------""111 
Wednesday, April 21, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
team. 
PURDUE NEXT: Today, the Irish meet Purdue at 7 p.m. at Coveleski Stadium. 
The Boilermakers are led by 

Jermaine Allensworth in the 
outfield and at the plate. Also 
leading Purdue are catcher 
Scott Barrett. shortstop Dan 
Zanolla and third baseman 
Sean Helsel. 
Barrett, designated hitter Al­fredo Suarez and pinch hitter Jeff Scott were the only batters to register hits off Price in the last contest. 
The Irish come into the game nagged by injuries. Eddie Hartwell, Grag Layson and Paul Failla are still recovering from injuries while pitchers Craig Allen and Marty DeGraff are out indefinitely. 
Notre Dame is leading the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence and Purdue is also near the top of the Big~ 10. 
Championship trophy to debut today at Notre Dame-Purdue game 
By JENNY MARTEN eluding future stops at the Mi­scholarship is also awarded to Associate Sports Editor ami-Florida State series on the national championship April 24-25 and the Texas­school. 
The Louisville Slugger Na­Texas A&M series on April 30­tional Ch&mpionship Trophy May 2, .. sh Specially crafted in Ireland, will make it's frrst ever appear;, · The trophy, '\\l~~cb,.Will be the trophy will be presented to ance today at the Notre Darne· awarded all.llually W~~ school the winning school following Putdue baseball game at COV7: which wins the Co · World the tournament to display for a eleski Stadium. ··· Ser~es In. p.rna ·· · ....... raska. year and then the school will be 
\!The trophy will continue to ~as iritrodueed ear along presented for a duplicate for travel around the country in-·· .with. a. $?(),Qo· ·&thh.)Jie permanent display. 
~~~~~~----~~~~~------~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need a ride to Philly/South Jersey BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD after finals? Call Michele X4117. FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. GRADUATION(IN CASE OF RAIN). ••golf*goWgolf*golf*goWgolf** BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF 
NOTICES 

219-291-7153. PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399. $*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$ TOURNAMENT ON SAT. MAY 8 Free-basing, militant lesbian couple OPEN TO ALL TYPING 256-6657 desperately seeks your white infant. SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM I have extra commencement WIN PRIZES! -PUBLIC SIGN UPS AT THE PRO Will provide loving, PC home. Call HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. tickets Sign up for the SHOP BEHIND THE ROCK 
Fortune 500 Company continuing to 634-31261NTERNATIONAL GREAT RATES! AVAIL Call Bobby 273-WOGG TODD BROSKI BENEFIT -STUDENTS SIGN UP AT THE expand internationally. Seeking EMPLOYMENT-Make money NOW,SUMMER & FALL272-6306 GOLF TOURNAMENT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE persons interested in becoming teaching basic conversational Saturday, May 8, 1993 -GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS integral players in the growth of this English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. 1 WY-TICKET-MAY 31ST $1 0 Student entrance fee I business. Regions targeted include Make $2,000-$4,000+ per month. S.B.->ANCHORAGE, ALASKA $35 Stall/Public entrance fee ' Europe, S. and Latin America, and Many provide room & board + other Dan @4552 or 1-4308, $200 Sign ups at the LaFortune 
Pacific Rim. After 3 pm, call 257-benefits! No previous training or **Students** Information Desk, the Pro 5283, or 683-3195 for more · teaching certificate required. For Now renting 1300 sq It condos at I need extra graduation tixl Shop(behind the Rock), or with a HELP! I need ride to Madison, WI information. International Employment program, College Park Condominiums. All Please call Kathryn at x2999 Dorm representative weekend of 4/23. Will help w/ gas 
call the International Employment units include: & tolls. Please call Shannon at Hey German Club members II Group: (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. -Security systems, ENTER NOW! X2822 Please join us one last time for -Hard wood floors, PERSONALS some German food at Hans Haus ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -All appliances, **other donations accepted on Thursday, April 22nd. We'll meet -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in -Washer & dryer in unit, Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal and appreciated at Library Circle at 6:00 and be on canneries or $4000+/month on -Large balconies, Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological **all proceeds to defer medical our way. Please call Colleen at fishing boats. Free transportation! -Gas utilities, Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN costs for Todd) SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD x2866 with R.S.V.P. Room & Board! Over 8000 -Free covered parking, 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. $*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$*$* BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF 
openings. No experience -2 large bedrooms, **goWgolf*golf*golf*golf*golf* TOURNAMENT!!!
...................................
Use Mishawaka Cab Co. necessary. Male or Female. For -2 full bathrooms, ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE ­AT YOUR OWN RISKI!II , employment program call 1-206--Only 1/4 mile from door of Give yourself, your baby and us a SATURDAY MAY 8 Trust me, they'll screw you 545-4155 ext.A5584 Hesburgh library. brighter future! We are a loving, Campus Bands: OPEN TO ALL over bigtime. For appt. -272-0691 or see Off­secure, Catholic, Caucasian couple. The Underground Motion COUNSELORS, summer camp for Campus Housing office. Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616) recording studio is now open SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN 
Ill SENIORS Ill developmentally disabled, June 12-629-9037 -offering S-track reel to reel BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH SeniorS who are conducting service Aug 21, Orlando, FL (407) 889-FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, recording at 15 ips, dolby-S YOUR DORM REP work next year should sign up for 8088. KITCHEN, PHONE, Are you interested in living in -in home recording done using full the VOLUNTEER send-off. 5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS. DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See studio equipment GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!! Saturday, May 15. Please sign-up RB 272-0615. Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon set-up & sound engineering 
....................................

at the esc between April 15-29. @ 271-1938. -$30 per song I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE! The sound quality is excellent & you 
FOR SALE 
F. ROOMMATE/S & APT. NEEDED Adopt: we are truly loving couple may control all aspects of recording M/IJV\I\N\MIIIWILOST/FOUND I 4 SUMMER TRTLE CRKICMP VW. who can bring love and happiness -demo's of studio work available play play play play play play X2358 CORlE 1-WY TCKT MAY 17 to your white newborn. We offer call Tim : 289-2482 
CO's "LOST" AT TONY'S OFF­S. BND to SAN JOSE financial security and a great future TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA antost CAMPUS PARTY ON GOOD Hey! I need a ride to NYC $200 obo Julie x2762 in our oceanside home. ####################### al TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA ant FRIDAY : Pink Floyd, area after finals. Will pay MedicaVIegal expenses covered. 1-ANTOSTAL trivia ANTOSTAL trivia 
Ocean Blue, Queen expenses. Call Jess X2725 91 GEO Storm GSI, 17Kmi, 5 spd, 800-438-6599 eves. ANTOSTAL trivia ANTO STAL trivia play play play play play play TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY AJC, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277-ANTOSTAL trivia I\MJINWV\NIJVVW COMPACT DISCS: HELP! I'm looking to rent an 3956. ATTN: SUMMER SCHOOL 
I generously shared my house so apartment for the summer session. STUDENTS winners receive ANTOSTAL T­we could party. I never expected Roommates are fine -preferably LIVING OFF-CAMPUS? $5.50 Haircuts SHIRTS and CUPS someone would steal my precious male. Please call X4238. NEED FURNITURE? VITO'S BARBER SHOP OINK! CO's. WE HAVE IT ALL!! 1523 Lincolnway West rules: 1. place answers to the OINK! Call me naive, but I trust a person CALL 273-2810 South Bend, IN questions below on a piece of paper OINK! until he or she breaks that trust. I 50,000,000 Babies 233-4767 2. include your name and telephone OINK! work hard for the money I eam and Cathedral ceiling and open living number OINK! the CO's I buy. Please examine Going to grad school at U of Miami areas in this new 1350 sq. ft., 3 Which Bookstore Basketball game 3. turn into box at LaFortune Info your conscience and ask if what you or living in area? Need roommates -bedroom, 2 bath ranch. Just 3 was decided by a coin toss? Desk by 6pm PIG TOSTAL IS COMING!!! did was fair to me. Hopefully, you call Mary 271-7288 blocks east of ND campus and built Find out in: Look Out For The 4. 10 winners will be drawn at will see justice like the thief who by CRESCENT HOMES. Manhole Cover, available now in the random from correct entries ####################### died with Jesus. I am not angry • WANTED TO BUY: dorm size 273-2754. bookstore! received answers to TUESDAY'S just disappointed. refrigerator (1 or 1&1/2 cubic It). Will winners receive ANTOSTAL T­ANTOSTAL TRIVIA Please call Tony with info x3603 pay cash. Call Tim 631-7646 from THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE SHIRTS and CUPS 
8-4:30, M-F. OAKHILL CONDO -Close to TEAM is currently accepting 1.University of Michigan has 676 LOST: Colored Gold Bracelet campus, 1,900 sq.ft., 4 bdrm, 3 applications for a part-time debate wed's trivia: from what movie ..... career wins while ND is second with during Christmas in April. Great ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER bath, LIKE NEW. Great place to coach. If interested, send a resume, 651. Sentimental Value!!!I!Reward. Call AND NEXT YEAR. PLEASE CALL live. Excellent investment two letters of recommendation, and 1. "It's hot, real hot, damn hot! Hot! 2. Elmer Layden, Harry Stuhldreher, Karen 2608 289-9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE. opportunity. Asking $83,750. a list of previous debate Hot!" Don Miller, Jim Crowley are the 
273-9204. achievements to th~ Vice President members of the "Four Horsemen." LOST-PAIR OF GLASSES I need a large backpack for of Student Affairs 2. "You just tell Sergeant that he is 3. NO's first bowl game was the In a dark leather case . Feb 26 summer travel in Europe !I Great Loft For Sale University of Notre Dame the jam in my jelly roll!" 1925 Rose Bowl against Stanford. around Cushing Hall area. call x3604 $45 315 Main Building The Irish won 27-10. PLEASE! Help me have them x3604 Notre Dame, IN 46556 3. "It that real tomato ketchup? 4. Ara Parseghian played for the before the summer. I don't have$ for DEADLINE: May 1. Noth'n but the best, Clark." Cleveland Browns. 
FOR RENT 
new ones! 5. NO's first head football coach Any info please call X4367 One SMC Approved White SEEKING FEMALE NOTRE DAME 4. "It's easy to grin when your ship was James L. Morison, 1894. SUZANA SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 Loft!! STUDENT ON UNITED FLIGHT comes in and you've got the stock 
bdrms, close to campus, safe Please buy it because I 215 FROM BOSTON TO CHICAGO market beat. But a man worthwhile (source: 100 Years of Notre Dame LOST LOST LOST neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all need cash ..now! You name IN SEAT 19J ON 4/12/93. WANTED is a man who can smile, and his Football Trivia by Thomas Joseph Lost MO afternoon either in front of utilities. Call Monica the price ..call Nicole x.5193 TO SPEAK TO YOU AFTER pants are too tight in the seat." and Richard H Walwood) stadium (E side) or in front of 232-2794. FLIGHT, BUT WAS TOO SHY. Library (S side, TD. J) :DIGITAL PLEASE CALL (502) 894-9994. 5. "It ain't cool to be no jive turkey Answers to Tuesday's ANTOSAL DIARY. Casio SF 4000, of personal OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT! One Way Ticket. May 9 SEAT 20J. so close to Thanksgiving. Yah." TRIVIA value to me. please call: x6609 1 Br wlloft, 2 Bth, fireplace, SOUTH BEND to BOSTON ####################### (am) or 273-8938 (pm) (Volker) WID, garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill $200, or Best Offer. x2601 Doctor and teacher will make ANTOSTAL trivia ANTOSTAL trivia 
or Caroline at dreams for your baby come true. ANTOSTAL trivia ANTO STAL trivia LOST-Pair of Brown Topsiders on 317-297-8485. WEDDING GOWN, Full-time parenting. Best of the city; ANTOSTAL trivia #$#$#$#$#$#$#$$#$#$#$# Steppan Courts April 1 , if found call "DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6. summers by the beach. Your baby ####################### X4600 Turtle Creek townhouse GORGIOUS. NEVER WORN. $500. rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace 'STER IS 21 TODAY 
6/1-mid-Aug. 271-5632. in winter, and by ocean waves in APRIL 28 -NEXT WEDNESDAY -'STER IS 21 TODAY Found: Furnished -$400/mo 
summer. Art, music, the best IS THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF 'STER IS 21 TODAY 4-17-93 women's ring found in 02 Matt 634-3332. education, endless love. Call THE OBSERVER. parking lot. Call Maureen@ 4-4711 TICKETS Franny or Stephen collect. THERE WILL BE A SENIOR #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$# to claim Looking to sublet this summer? (212) 369-2597. COMMENCEMENT ISSUE ON 
Contact x1505 about space Help!Help!Helpl I need grad tickets! FRIDAY, MAY 14. TODAY IS MEGAN BUTLER'S 
*Lost at Senior Formal in at Turtle Creek. If you have extra call Joe @ 277-Andrea, 21 ST BIRTHDAY. I KNOW SHE Chicago• 1 roll of completed 4273. I'll be waiting for you to COUNSELORS: CAMP EMERSON, WANTED ONE OF THOSE COOL film with 2 months of pictures • Summer sublet: furnished Let me have the coed, Massachusetts. Swimming, PICTURE ADS, BUT FRANKLY, I'M EXTREME sentimental value -2 bdrm house near campus I NEED 2 RETURN FLIGHTS Opportunity to show how a tennis, land/water sports, arts/crafts, POOR AND SO ALL SHE GETS IS if found, PLEASE call Mary at AC. nice yard, $300 FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO Very special person is treated archery, theatre, woodworking, THIS CLASSIFIED. IF YOU SEE 46191 Dave 232-7970 SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON Every minute of every day. rocketry, computer, yearbook, THIS, CALL HER AT 42702 AND 
MAY23 You wil always be the photography, administrative, morel WISH HE A HAPPY DAYIIII 3-5 person furnished house, sec CALL RICH, 631-5370 Only person I will ever Super kids, great food, friendly. fun! 
WANTED 

1ystem, wash/dry, beach V-ball, Unendingly treat as a Princess. No general counselors. (BOO) 955-#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$# 
,lrime location. $500. 109 N. St. DESPERATELY SEEKING Mike CAMP. 
SUMMER JOBS Peter, 233-9947. GRADUATION TICKETS!! ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Gram and Gramp are coming &&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 2 ROOMS W/QUEEN BEDS AVAIL and I need 2 tix. Please call 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS GRAD WKEND.NICELY DECOR 3 Kristin at 4-4272 if you have PLAY ANTOSTAL TRIVIA in LaFortune Student Center NEAR LAKE PLACID MIN. TO CAMPUS. ADULTS OVER any extras, and name your trivia antostal play QUALITY COPIES CALL 1-800-786-8373. 30 PREF. $170/WKEND/ROOM. price. PLAY ANTOSTAL TRIVIA as low as 3e each 
277-8340. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&···~ 
Don•t Waste Food! 



~-----------------­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, April 21, 1993 

Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Crabtree has jumped to no. 56 in the latest ITA release, and owns a 16-8 record in dual match play. Her chances for receiving an NCAA invitation appear similar to that of the team. 
"Wendy has had a chance to play a lot of ranked players," Louderback said, "and she has quite a few wins over top-1 00 players. She has beaten a couple players who are sure to get in, so that should work in her favor." 
Like the Notre Dame team, Crabtree's highest-ranked win also came over Clemson, where she beat 49th-ranked Bob Tzvetkova. 
The Irish may also have a doubles squad in the tourna­ment for the first time. 
Crabtree and junior Lisa Tholen, Notre Dame's no. 1 doubles team since January, rose to no. 17 in the new ITA national rankings. 
"They also have a good chance of getting into the tour­nament," said Louderback, "especially with the national wins they've gotten." 
The duos' biggest upset was a straight-set win over the na­tion's no. 3 team when the Irish traveled to North Carolina. 
Despite the teams' hopes for an NCAA bid, today's match against Purdue at the Eck Pavil-
Notre Dame Sports Information Junior Christy Faustmann and the rest of the Irish tennis team awaits an NCAA Tournament bid. 
ion was the last home match of the season. The 6-0 dumping of the Boilermakers was remi­niscent of most of Notre Dame's home wins this season. Other than a season-opening loss to no. 4 Duke, the Irish have not lost at Eck in nine matches, and their closest match there was a 6-3 victory over Clemson. 
Irish senior captain Ennie Bende made a rare singles ap­pearance in the final home match of her career and posted a 6-2, 4-6, 6-1 win over Pur­due's Lesley Hubbell. 
"I was really nervous to start the match because this is one of those matches that you re­member for the rest of your life." said Bende. "I was shaky in the first set, but still played well. In the second, I was hav­ing trouble with my serve but I came on in the third to pull out the win." 

Bende holds just a 16-6 ca­reer singles record (9-1 this season), but her doubles record is 57-52. Since the Irish swept the Boilermakers in singles, the teams opted out playing the doubles matches. For Bende, that marked and unusual ending to her Notre Dame career. 
"It doesn't bother me that we didn't play doubles," she said, "but it's kind of ironic that I'm ending my career with a singles win." 
"Ennie has done a great job for us in doubles," said Coach Louderback. "She was instru­mental in our upset of Kansas earlier this season when we needed the doubles points to win the match." 
Bende points to the team's at­titude as a major influence on this year's success. 
"Everyone has worked to­gether really well," she said. "We've had a great sense of team spirit and the team has kept it up all season long." 
And, she warns, even if the Irish are matched against a high-s'eeded team, no one should take the team lightly. 
"We've really come on toward the end of the season, and we should give even a top-10 team a run for their money." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Sailing Club will bold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 205 O'Sbaugnessy regarding the upcoming regattas. All interested PLEASE attend. Contact Tucker at 634-1765 for more information. 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet Thursday at 7 
p.m in the basement of Farley. Everyone is welcome. Please call Dette at 634-4092 with questions. 
The N.D. Martial Arts Institute will be holding its annual belt testing at the Rockne Memorial in room 301 on Saturday April 24. The testing runs from 1 p.m.-8 p.m All are welcome to attend. 
The U"imate Club will be having practice at 4:30 p.m. every school day until the end of the year behind Stepan Center. Big Ten OpenJJi this weekend. All are welcome. 
The N.D. Boxing Club will be holding their banquet this 'l'll.urs~~Y 4122 at Bruno's. All boxers interested in attending need to R.S,V.P. at Rae Sports by calling 1-5100 and talking to Brenda. 
Found at Bookstore Basketball game on 4114: a freshman theology notebook. Call 1-4560 to identify. 
The Irish Guard will be holding will be holding an in­formational meeting for those interested in trying out for next yel\t'S squad in the LaFortune 1V room on Thursday 4/22 at 5 p.m. If you have any questions call Dan at 4-1527. 
Bookstor~ Basketball Notice: Starting with the round of 32, no resd\eduling will be allowed; how('ver, if the teams seeking to r~h,edule can arrange to swap court times with another game, it will be allowed. These teams must give notice to Andy Simms at 1­4560. 
CI.QSim SECTIQ~S ARCH 543 01 1403 ECON 123T 05 4528 FIN 475 01 0566 MATH 21ST 02 0663 PHYS 229L 01 2663 THEO 200 07 1252 AS QE Z:QQ P.M. ARCH 598 02 0401 ECON 224T 01 4533 GE 101 03 2114 MATH 225T 03 0662 PHYS 229L 02 2664 THEO 224 01 0710 ARHI 169 01 1409 ECON 224T 02 4534 GE 365 01 4726 MATH 225T 07 0179 PSY 211A 01 2780 THEO 242 01 0706
WJJ/!n. 

ARHI 483 01 4474 ECON 224T 03 4535 GE 475 01 3865 MATH 325 01 1353 PSY 250 01 1781 THEO 143 01 4817 ARST 131S 01 1436 ECON 224T 04 4536 GE 575 01 3866 MATH 335 02 1597 PSY 341 02 3179 THEO 246 01 1155
ACCT 231T 02 1266 

ARST 241S 01 3297 ECON 224T 05 4537 GEOS 141L 01 3449 MATH 438 01 2359 PSY 341 03 3178 THEO 250 01 1105
ACCT 131T OS 1269 

ARST 145S 01 3566 ECON 224T 06 4538 GEOS l41L 02 3451 MBA 601 01 3984 PSY 341T 02 4923 THEO 253 01 IISO
ACCT 13LT 07 1271 

ARST 147S 01 3209 ECON 224T 07 4539 GEOS 459 01 4854 ME 24LL 01 4864 PSY 342 01 2784 THEO 255 01 0491
ACCT 132 02 1284 

ARST 315S 01 1442 ECON 224T 08 4540 GOVT 316G 01 4599 ME 331L 01 4867 PSY 342T 01 4915 THEO 255 02 4818
ACCT 334 OS 1187 

AS 411 02 1489 ECON 224T 13 4545 GOVT 341 02 0893 ME 331L 04 4870 PSY 355 01 0267 THEO 255 03 5103
ACCT 371 02 1294 

BA 230 01 1494 ECON 224T 17 4549 GOVT 342T 01 3289 ME 33IL 05 4871 PSY 403 01 4788 THEO 264 01 4169
ACCT 371 03 1293 

BA 230 02 0572 ECON 125 02 1778 GOVT 342T 02 3290 ME 435 01 0688 PSY 421 01 0755 THEO 265 01 1147
ACCT 371 05 1291 

BA 230 03 1490 ECON 417 01 4458 GOVT 342T 03 3191 ME 469 01 0684 PSY 453 01 4790 THEO 266 01 3072
ACCT 372 01 1296 

BA 362 01 1496 ECON 443 01 1788 GOVT 343T 01 0827 MGT 131 02 2443 PSY 454 01 0754 THEO 266 02 1146
ACCT 380 01 1297 

BA 363 01 1497 ECON 447 01 4559 GOVT 403 01 4076 MGT 131 04 2449 PSY 455 01 0753 THEO 281 01 3675
ACCT 476 04 3357 

BA 363 02 1843 ECON 484 01 3619 GOVT 403T 01 4080 MGT 231 05 2445 PSY 462 01 4791 THEO 282 01 4819
ACCT 479 01 1304 

BA 363 03 1499 EOUC 201F 06 8406 GOVT 445 01 4568 MGT 131 06 2448 RLST 201 IS 9515 THEO 395 01 3375AFAM 329 01 3732 BA 363 05 1500 EOUC 324 17 8417 GOVT 459 01 4457 MGT 240 02 2453 RLST 235 31 9531 THEO 621 01 3679AFAM 329 02 4429 
BA 391 01 1212 EOUC 340 18 8418 GOVT 478 01 4968 MGT 240 04 2454 RLST 235 33 9533
AFAM 359 01 4430 

BA 391 02 1004 EDUC 404 30 8430 GOVT 486 01 3698 MGT 240 05 2456 RLST 235 35 9535 COURSES THATAFAM 371 01 3652 
AFAM 384B 01 3825 BA 391 03 1213 EE 222 02 5087 GSC 220 01 3905 MGT 350 01 2457 RLST 242 41 9541 WILL REOPEN ATBA 490 03 1507 EE 222T 01 1810 GSC. 315 01 4638 Ml 318 01 3475 RLST 251 43 9543
AFAM 393 01 4431 Z:OO P.M.1_L2ll93
AFAM 425 01 4432 

BIOS 304 01 1519 ENGL 201 01 5097 HESB 450 02 0414 MI 530 01 4604 RLST 362 55 9555
BIOS 344L 02 1524 ENGL 310 02 0642 HIST 308A 01 3646 MUS 2200 03 252J ROFR 413 01 4731
BIOS 405 01 0587 ENGL 319A 01 2000 HIST 370 01 3649 MUS 226 01 2524 ROSP 102A 04 2998
BIOS 463 01 0582 ENGL 319A 02 2001 HIST 371A OJ 5032 MUS 130 01 4756 ROSP 102A 05 2999
CAPP i315 01 1603 ENGL 322 01 2002 HIST 393 OJ 3312 PHIL 201 02 2605 ROSP 103 06 3006
CAPP 361 01 1604 ENGL 317A 01 4989 HIST 394 01 2175 PHIL 201 03 2606 ROSP 103 07 3007
CAPP 416 01 0497 ENGL 328 01 3159 HIST 395 01 0534 PHIL 201 04 2607 ROSP J03 09 3009
CHEG 459 02 1642 ENGL 333 01 4610 HIST 430 01 4443 PHIL 201 06 2609 ROSP 234 01 0241
AL 211 27 1355 ENGL 466A 01 4605
CHEM 119L 01 3581 ENGL 340 01 3431 HIST 458 01 4JI6 PHIL 201 07 2610 ROSP 236 01 0239
AL 211 29 1357 FIN 376 03 2050
CHEM 1191. 02 3583 ENGL 384B 01 3824 HIST 458A 01 4115 PHIL 201 09 2612 ROSP 237 01 0734
AMST 273 01 0354 GOVT 342T 01 3289
CHEM 119L 04 3587 ENGL 392B 01 4612 HIST 473 01 4686 PHIL 201 11 3346 ROSP 237 02 0966
AMST 301E 01 4587 HIST 458A 01 4115
CHEM 223L 02 1672 ENGL 399A 01 3688 HIST 473A 01 4687 PHIL 201 13 1236 ROSP 310 01 3020
AMST 302E 01 4588 HIST 474 01 3495
AMST 367H 01 4702 MLJA 221 01 2469
CHEM 333L 03 1685 ENGL 434Z 01 4620 liPS 437 01 4970 PHIL 221 01 5126 ROSP 484 01 4733
AMST 368H 01 4703 MUS 2200 01 2522
CLAS 441 01 1712 ENGL 435A 01 4580 liPS 584 01 3620 PHIL 222 02 0769 sc 141L 01 3450
AMST 386H 01 4704 MUS 2200 03 2521
AMST 387H 01 4705 MUS 2240 01 4755
AMST 388H 01 4706 MUS 226 01 2524
COMM 103 04 9704 ENGL 466A 01 4605 LAW 616 01 2251 PHIL 224 02 4760 soc 232 01 3321
AMST 401E 01 4590 MUS 230 01 4756
COMM 103 05 9705 ENOL 470 01 4626 LAW 631A 01 2256 PHIL 225 01 3662 soc 232 02 3331
AMST 40ZE 01 4591 PHIL 201 07 2610
COMM 103 06 9706 ENOL 470A 01 4993 LAW 631B 01 2257 PHIL 225 02 4761 soc 242 01 4157
AMST 403E 01 4592 PHIL 224 02 4760
COTH 204 01 3601 ENOL 471 01 4994 LAW 6310 01 2259 PHIL 232 01 4131 soc 242 02 4159
AMST 404E 01 4593 PHIL 242 01 5101
COTH 204 02 4003 ENGL 485B 01 4629 LAW 676 01 2265 PHIL 233 01 4762 soc 332 01 0509
AMST 430 01 0500 PHIL 242 02 5102
COTH 205 OJ 3603 ENOL 495A 01 1223 LAW 679 01 3656 PHIL 233 02 4763 soc 415 01 3938
ANTH 3JO OJ 3492 PHIL 253 OJ 3666
COTH 205 02 4005 FIN 231 01 2032 MARK 231 03 2277 PHIL 235 OJ 2619 soc 486 01 457J
ANTH 328 01 3480 RLST 251 43 9543
ANTH 329 02 4444 soc 332 01 0509
COTH 435 01 4520 FIN 360 03 2035 MARK 370 02 2287 PHIL 253 01 3666 STY 354 01 3912
ANTH 359 OJ 4447 soc 415 OJ 3938
COTH 440 01 452J FIN 360 04 2036 MARK 476 01 2291 PHIL 261 02 0279 STY 454 OJ 3561
ANTH 405 01 3992 THEO 255 01 0492
ANTH 4JI 01 4450 THEO 255 02 4818
ANTH 431 01 4451 THEO 282 01 4819
CSE 471 01 3626 FIN 376 03 2050 MATH 120T 01 4954 PHIL 315 01 4765 THEO 200 04 1169
ANTH 431A 01 4985 

ECON 223T 01 4524 FIN 376 04 2051 MATH 221 01 2338 PHYS 221L 02 2656 THEO 200 05 1165
ANTH 454A 01 3559 

ECON 223T 04 4527 FIN 470 01 2060 MATH 221 02 2339 PHYS 221L 05 2657 THEO 200 06 1162
ARCH 443 01 1400 



--~------------~-------~----~-~ 
Wednesday, April 21, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Crowds grow as field dwindles in Bookstore XXII 

"Anytime you play three big the Round of 32 this year. Four ing of the day, Second 16 team Men in the Round of 128, got wire," said The Betrayed Guru football players and around other seeded teams barely Talking Trash Is Only Half the the edge in a 26-24 overtime player Derek Gustafson. "Theynineteen fouls are called on you escaped an early departure in Game battled to a 29-27 win match with MC Counsellor and were just a bigger and strongerand five on them, it seems a lit­the last round. behind captain Paul Ferguson's the Grass Cutters. team than us." tle fishy," said Jim Meyers, Jeff Grace scored eleven twelve points. In one of the fiercest and most Pink Sky In Morning knocked captain of Dawgs In Heat III. "I points to lead his Top 16 team Second 16 squad The Good. physical competitions of the out Second 16 squad Bitter­guess the referee felt intimi­Corby's I to a 23-21 overtime the Bad, and the Laundry de­day, Pink Sky In Morning sweet on Monday.dated." victory versus No Clue, which feated Time to Fly III: It's Fi­handed The Betrayed Guru a Sixteen games will be played
"They're a very good team," was led by Jeff Murry's eight nally Over, whose Vin Reilly 21-19 loss as well several today at Stepan Courts startinghe added. "and they'll go a long points. scored a game-high nine points, bruises as the two teams fought at four o'clock. The winners of way in the tournament, I'm Top 16 squad Smooth Mo­by the score of 21-18. through a brutal match which these contests will be reseeded sure." mentum let up eighteen points In other competition, Woody seemed to be controlled by lais­later tonight by the Bookstore 
Eight of the top thirty two to Beef and Co., whose captain and Four Other Stiffs, which sez-faire officiating. Basketball XXII Commissioners seeds, including two members Ed Loftus scored seven baskets. eliminated Monk Malloy's Sec­"It was a real hard played and will resuine play tomorrow of the Top 16, failed to reach In the last and longest meet-ond 16 team All The President's game and it came down to the in the Round of 16. 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Playing through abnormally low temperatures, gusty winds, and intermittent rain and snow, Bookstore Basketball XXII wrapped up the Round of 64 yesterday with hundreds of loyal fans ignoring the weather to watch the round's exciting competitions. ­
Although only one seeded team, Top 16 squad Dawg's In Heat III, was eliminated from the tournament. many games were fought down to the wire with several teams nearly pulling off upsets. 
Head Bangers, a first year team paced by football players Bobby Taylor, Brian Hamilton, and Lake Dawson, defeated Dawgs In Heat III 21-12 in front of perhaps the most over­bearing audience of this year's tourney. 
With the game still close at 14-12, Head Bangers streaked to victory by scoring the final seven points of the match. 
Many on-lookers and partici­pants felt that the game was poorly officiated and that one referee was heavily influenced by the crowd's opinions. 
J~~~~~~!~~~···.,~'i:c. ..C~hi:=~1'-~;*; ;i 
:fu~:~~~~~(~[Y.:~~~~~~i:::: **Dogs21-9 Ill... B 
~::"-'~:::::::~~~~ 
.

~-~!?.~£!~....................................~ ........ ······························" 
B*Malicious Prosecution *BLACKJACK
*BLACKJACK ...............................................f.~~r:Ef~~~~~:~~~::~:f.)!t~:::~ ~M~!iP!R!!!!.P..~Q!l_lji_9.Y~!R!).~_1·6 .......................................-.: ~ Vanilla Guerillas 
~!-!~~..15!!!.!!.:····························· **McCormick's 21·17 Ill... 0
~-~~-C?g9.~~!~~:~ ......................~ ........................................, a ~-~~Q\.G.~~-~f'Y!n'..?J.:~ ~ ::::::::::::~~~if.~:~~~~~t~~-~ 
*Bitter *Pale Riders .................................................,. *Bitter 21·2 
Ice Cream Headaches ,. ......................................... s .............:f..~!!L'=l!~~~-?.1.:!1 ~ :=::::~~::~i:~~:((~)~~:~:g~~Y.
~~~::~~~:N~:f.:~~~~~~::::::::::::.,. 0 ** ·····;~---· ..···:·-....................~-~i-~!
**L-TRAIN 21-19 Ill... ~·teas a Cheeto ... 21-12
**L-TRAIN ,. ........................................, 
~..................................... ~ ........~Y.-b~:A~~:o~~~le 
~flg!)~(~g:~~r!)~(~::::::::::::::::: -*Fighting Kemals 21·10 k k *H·A·R·D·K-O·R·E 21·11 ~-······ ........................................
!;'l.!"!!"!9!!:'.9.!~~-.f!l!:'.~.................~ ..... ······ .......................... ......................................... ~ Eleven 
p· k Sk . 21
T~-~-!;'l.~!r.~Y.~9.G!:I.~\L........... . M .... FInaI e ~The 5 hooP.sters... 21-18 ~ :::~[Y.~:~i~:~~~(~b)~~:~~Y.~
~ooooooooooooOOoO oOOOOOOOOOOoooooooo•o ~ .I~~~-~~~.'?!.1!!~.~~
li\;~-~~Sit~;";l~;;o~~ ,, ''" '"''"" ,, S 
The More We Win .... 

T!J~.M~r~.w-~..w\1}_""·-?.t:? ~ ....................siiiiCie5-Cii.i=unk 
1

;::;~.;~;~~ff: ::::;~··---:),IQ~ t 32 t •• ~Good. the Bad, .... 21-18 ...:~:::::::::::::::::::::f!:~~:i~:~ :v::m
~--················•·········· .......... ., The Good, the Bad, & the laundry 
I~~:~~~~P.:P.:~:~e:::::::::::::::::~ ~!;!?R!)Y.~.i~_lji:::..P.Rm~.i?.1:.12 b ...............~9!?!PX:~.l.?.~:?.~.•::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~g~~~ ~!:.!3.U._W'~~U.~~~---·····:······· ..··· ••Justifiable Homocide 2.... 7 o 
~ D's Most Wanted 21-10 ::::::::::;;:::§~~~~!:9.h~)~~~
~-:~!-!~~1f1_1:1_1?.!~.!:!9~.~~~~~---·····~ ........................................~ ~--······························•""'"' ...............~!?.-~-~~~!.~~!"!~~-~ 
•Afrodeziacs

~!?.~~g~_!f)__H.~-~t.!!!.................. Head Bangers 21·12 a 
Head Bangers ,. ................. ...................... 
...........:~~-~~-~~!~~~-~~.:~~ ~ ::::::::::::::::::::r.~:f~~:~b.:§.~~~ 
MC Counsellor & the Grass Critters

:~j~~~b:)~j~~iY.:8~ii:_;;::::::::::: .. **Talkin 'Trash ... 29·27 .... r 
dy and Four Stiffs 26·24 '-" ...............................................
Baked Pollack Jarohmere ,. ........................................,. 
I v4

...................................... ., ..........~~-~!!9.!:~~!.~~!.~)!~~
··--·················--------·-··········-······ 
*Rhythm & Darts *Smooth Momentum
,;_, ···,·._ I 
*Smooth Momentum 21-18 ~ ...............................................
·i=i~~c;·,:i~;;;·c-~~·wii5ii···-....... ~ -~-~~~~~-~--1?.~~!!.~.~:-~g__ _ 
:~~~~~~~::~:]).!!?.~~:;:::::::::::::: Coming From Behind 21 ~ e .-•. t . ' .·. ~~;~~:;~:;;~~t;~~:~:~;.~~ ~ ::::::::~~J~~~;~~~~
_q~~!r19Xr.l?.~.~~~!f!_c:l__________ ~ .......................................~ 
** Denotes a Team Seeded in the Second Sixteen............................Y...••.••.••.....G
• Denotes a Team Seeded in the Top Sixteen 
The Observer I Chris Mullins 

r---------------, 

Put your tongue to good use! 
WO®[(U 

@[f@~©[iU@[fl) 
@ [iU@[p)[.Q)W 
~4]@~g 

ETIA & BERT LISS LECTURE SERIES DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY University of Notre Dame 
NANCY BERMAN 
DIRECTOR SKIRBALL MUSEUM, HEBREW UNION COLLEGE of Los Angeles 
JEWISH ISSUES AND IDEAS IN CONTEMPORARY ART 
"It's difficult at this point in the year to keep focused,"
Miller 
commented Lisa Miller. "Coach keeps us intense and we try to

continued from page 16 
look at it like every game is the haven't had any playing time to frrst of the year." this point." Notre Dame will continue 
However, there is good news their season today at Bowling on the horizon for Miller and Green for a doubleheader. the Irish. Seniors Sheri Quinn "We're ready to play," con­and Deb Boulac have recovered cluded coach Miller. from their injuries and will re­If coach Miller continues to 
turn to the lineup. "It's the frrst keep the Irish focused, Notre time this year we'll have our Dame will become a softball full squad," Miller said. power. 
Best Selection -Best Service 
TREK.usAHQ/oGEsTonE f 
SPfC1AL/ZE[]. 

603 N. Second St. 
,

BIKE.. Nlles, MI 49120 
SPECIALISfS(616) 683,3100 
ND Boxing Club Banquet 
This Thursday at 

ALL boxers call Brenda at Rec Sports for R.S.V.P. 
631--5100 
The Observer/Sean Faman Miller leads the Irish in a double­header today against Bowling Green. 



WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21 8:00P.M. 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDITORIUM 







Former Notre Dame football 

rica player, he graduated Laude and was the recipi­an NCAA PO!>H~radw!lte 
He went on to play 11 in the NFL, earning AI -Pr honors five times. He was key member of the Oakl Raiders 1976 team that won Super Bowl XI. 
Currently, Casper is the gen eral manager of a Mutual o Omaha Insurance Co. office 

, a fundraising group work on behalf of the U""'""r~··'"·' esota Women's artment, and is a advisory council on rsity's Women's Intercol legiate Athletic Association. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS RAN KINGS 
The Notre Dame women's 
nnis team jumped from No. 21 to No. 18 in this week's In tercollegiate Tenni Association rankings. 
Freshmen Wendy Crabtre improved from No. 67 to No 56 and the doubles team o Crabtree and junior Lis Tholen skyrocketed from No. 35 to No. 17. 
SWIMMING CAPTAINS NAMED 
The Notre Dame men's a women's swim teams nounced their captains for 1993-94 season. Seniors-to­Kevin Flanagan and Dav Nathe will lead the men's and while senior-to-be K Heath and junior-to-be Lor Horenkamp will captain th women's squad. 
DANAPILIS DETAILS 
Notre Dame's Eric is among the top five vote ters in the designated hi ter/utility category in th balloting for the colleg baseball's prestegious Smi Award. 
Danapilis' batting aver has hovered around the .5 mark throughout the season. 
To vote, fans can call 1-900­976 VOTE (8683). The cal costs 99 cenlc; per minute. 
Past finalists for the Smith 
include current maj league baseball players Be McDonald, Jim Abbot, an Robin Ventura. 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL FUNDRAISER 
The men's. and 

en's volleyball spiked at Nationals 
Riding a near-top 10 national ranking after a promising regu­lar season: the Irish men's vol­
team crashed and burned at the National Club vol­leyball tournament, finishing a disappointing 33rd with a 2-8 record in the tourney. 
"Choke" was the word most often used to describe Notre Dame's performance at Nation­als. The Irish had expectations of a top 16 finish and hopes for a top 10 finish, but a lack of in­tensity and defensive mobility killed the hopes. 
The Irish were also hampered by injury. Matt Strottman reinjured his knee at practice Wednesday night, hampering his etTectiveness in the middle. 
The Irish opened play against Iowa, a team they fully ex­pected to beat. However, the Hawkeyes romped through game one, surprising the Irish 15-5. It served as a wake-up call for the Irish, but the Irish fell again 17-16 in game two. 
Game two featured what out­side hitter Pat Madden called "the longest rally I've ever seen" with the score tied late in the game. 
"The ball must have crossed the net 20 times," said Madden. Unfortunately, the Irish lost the point, the game and eventually the match. 
In order to win their pool and advance to the next round, the Irish had to defeat a small, scrappy Virginia Tech squad on Friday morning. Virginia Tech proved to be more than a match for the Irish, defeating them 13­15, 13-15. 
"They were too small to block us," said Madden, "but we managed to make enough mistakes to let them win." 
Thus eliminated from their pool and championship con­tention, the Irish moved on to face their final pool opponent, UC-Davis, the top-ranked team in the pool. 

"We wanted to play the spoiler," said Madden. "We felt that if we played well enough, we might beat them." 
That estimation was mis­taken. Both games of the UC­Davis sweep started with slim Irish leads at the outset, fol­lowed by a Davis run that the Irish could not overcome. 
"At least we blocked alot," Madden said, "and we hit well. I think it's obvious that they are the better team ... we were just happy to play well," a state­ment on the Irish's weak per­formance. 
On Friday night, the Irish opened loser's bracket play 

with a match against Virginia. "They weren't as good athleti­cally as us," said Madden, "so we were able to get everyone in and run alot of ditTerent plays." The Irish took the match 15-10, 15-12, bolstered by the at­tendance of family members of Strottman and Chris Murdy. 
On Saturday morning, the Irish chances to salvage the tournament were halted in a rematch with Iowa. Game 1 saw a slow start, as the Irish fell behind 1-8, but rallied to finish respectably with an 11­15 loss. 
"They exploited our lack of mobility on defense," said Madden. "They were ready to play, we weren't. We were standing up on defense... we were not intense enough." 
In game two, the Irish had nothing to Jose and played like it, falling 8-15. "Everyone was just tired," said Madden. A highlightllowlight of the match was Leo Casas earning an ejec­tion for trash-talking. 
"Leo wasn't doing anything he should have been kicked out for," said Madden. "He blocked this guy twice in a row, and then spiked one down his throat, and started jawing at him. Then the ref gave him a yellow card." Words were ex­changed between Casas, the opposing player and the official, and Casas received a red card, and was then ejected from the bench, unjustly, according to most observers. 
In defense of the Irish, the tournament could best be de­scribed as strange. Park Col­lege, who the Irish defeated at the MIVA tournament. took third. "It just shows how up and end was Brian Ceponis' per­down things can be in a formance at the OlympicFest tournament," Madden said, a tryouts. "Brian was in the top reminder of Chris Murdy's four middle hitters," said Mad­earlier assertion that "One bad den. "He did what he had to game can screw up the whole do." Ceponis has three more tourney." tryouts and will find out if he 

made the squad on May 3. 

The high point of the week­

-------------------------~--· 
Today ' 
Wednesday, April 21,1993 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Ground-­missile 6 Hundredth: Abbr. 9 Use a chair 12 Like the 
pre-1969 moon 14 The Altar 15lts capital is 
Bamako 16 See 15 Down 18 Magritte's 
medium 19 Blessing 20 "Tuxedo-," 
40's hit 22 Penny's pair 23 Causes of ruin 24 Actress Susan 27 Knot anew 29 Make a chain 30 Disputed pettily 35 Egyptian 
goddess 36 "Juke Box -,"40's hit 
39 Actress Mary -Hurt 40 Demonstrate 
the falsity of 41 Take a yoke off, 
old style 43 Certain collars 47lmprint 46 Aids in crime 52 Tabby or Felix 53 See 1 5 Down 55 Teen woe 56 Bonito shark seA 40's hit 60 In the sack 

61 Chern. room 
62 Impassive 
63 TV's Danson 
64 Greek letter 
65 Comic Johnson 
etal. 
DOWN 

1 Washer or bather 2 Certain tie score 3Salewords 4 Press suits 5Gypsy 
6 He wrote "Home, Sweet Home" 
7 Gators' kin 8 Not slack &Somewhat 
pious
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Ind. neighbor 11 "-the 
-=+~~ 

season ..." ~~+;-! 13-vu 


33 Roman lang. 46 Spirited horses 51 Bk. employees 34 In a pig's-46 World-weary 54 Seaweed one? 55 Suffix with 
36 Dispatched 

comment 37 Set upon 
49 Disney deer 
56 Welcome-38-up MacDonald had 57 Actor Vigoda (freezes) 
so"Oid 
afarm,-..." 59 B.&O. stop 39"-Stop" 42Stamp collectors' gp. Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
44 Secret 5656 (75¢ each minute).
45 Nursemaid 
~~~ 
.::!+~~+=-!~:.!.! ~;.+:,:+=-! ~::::.j.,:,.fl!!l 
~~;.JIIII!IP!~B~:::-+:~ ~~~ ~"-f.'.''-+-'-< 

15 With 16 and 53 Across, 40's hits 
nOid Sol 21 Author Fleming 23 "-Geste" 25 "Step-!" 26 Bottle pts. 28A40's hit 29 Poet Millay 31Surly 32 Eden, e.g.: 
Abbr. 



• 
Alumni..-Senior Club 
also open Wednesday & Thursday 
... 

Must Be 21 
_., 



Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, April 21, 1993 
Streaking Irish baseball takes two from Toledo 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Mentally he's a monster," said Irish head Sports Writer coach Pat Murphy. The Irish won the second game 2-1. 
Strong pitching and timely hitting Tom Price returned to the mound for the lifted the Notre Dame baseball team to a win in the nightcap, collecting nine doubleheader sweep of Toledo Tuesday. strike outs and allowing only one earned 
The Irish took the first game behind run and two walks in the complete the performance of winning pitcher game. Dave Sinnes. Sinnes held a shutout Murphy was happy with his team's through the fifth inning before allowing performance. "Considering the fact that one earned run in the sixth inning and four starters were out, I am pleased we one in the seventh. Sinnes finished with can come away with the victory. Some eight strike outs and allowed four hits, guys rose to the occasion, like our two earned runs and two walks. Tom catcher Bob Lisanti." Price came in in the bottom of the Right now the Irish are on a tear. 
~ 

seventh inning and earned a save by fac­Notre Dame has won 13 in a row. The Observer/Macy Heuekel ing Toledo's last batter. They've won six games in three days and Edwin Hartwell's three-run pinch hit double lifted Notre Dame to a 5-2 win in the first game Edwin Hartwell had a big outing for have won twenty out of the last twenty of Tuesday's doubleheader. the Irish ripping a key double in the two games. 
"When we started the season 3-6 I told Tom Price now leads the team in wins,sixth inning which drove in three runs. "Anytime you win six games in three 
people not to doubt us. Now we've won tied with Chris Michalak with six wins.
Mark Mapes was in the starting line up days you know you've done something right," said Murphy. 20 out of the last 22 games and people Price is now second on the team with aand hit well for the Irish. Mapes went are starting to say we're for real," said 3.30 E.H.A. and second on the team intwo for three in the first game and one For the Irish this last stretch of 
for two in the second game. thirteen games marks a tremendous Murphy. innings pitched with 46.3 once again turnaround. For a team that began the "Tom Price and Dave Sinnes were both behind Chrish Michalak who has 60.7
"Mapes has been a great pinch hitter 
great," remarked Murphy. On the innings pitched. Dave Sinnes' record isfor us. lie knows his role and accepts year 3-6, Notre Dame is now 23-8. 
season Tom Price and Dave Sinnes have now 4-1 with an E.H.A. of 4.14 which is
his role and he's stayed right with it. He Their record is now 15-1 in the Mid­had a good performance for us today. western Collegiate Conference. been two of Notre Dame's top pitchers. third on the IrishseeiRISHpage 11 
Women's tennis blanks ntens1ty spar Purdue in home finale First-year coach looks to lift Irish to next level 

By RIAN AKEY Dame will continue practicing Sports Writer until the 20-team tournament field is announced May 3. 
"Intense, Aggressive, Pre­
The Notre Dame women's "I think we have a very good 
red, Organized, Winner."
tennis team completed its regu­chance of getting in to the 
hese words describe Notre
lar season yesterday with a 6-0 tournament," said head coach 
head softball coach Liz
win over Purdue. But, for the Jay Louderback. "We've played first time in Irish Divsion I his­some of the other teams that 
After 17 years at Lake Michi­
tory, the end of the schedule are on the bubble, and we've 
Community College in Ben­
may not mean the end of the done well against them." 
Harbor, Mich and one year 
season. "Clemson [currently No. 13] is an assistant at Notre Dame, 
The Irish are optimistic about the highest-ranked team that iller took over the softball receiving an at-large bid to the we've beaten. The top-ten rogram this year. Thus far, she NCAA tournament. Notre teams that we've faced we led her team to a 21-11 
played early in the season, and d, including 11 wins in if we'd played them later on, r last 14 games. 
"I stress fundamentals," said
then we may have had better 
oach Miller. "I demand that my
results against them." 
laye.~s maintain intensity over
After a 2-5 start, Notre Dame has rallied to complete its 
want them to prepare
schedule with a 17-7 record, 
utlllLlUJV for every single inning 
including wins in eleven of its 
ery single game," she past twelve matches. With Intensity is the trademark of first-year Notre Dame softball coach three freshman in the starting Miller brought a 541-143 Miller. lineup, lack of experience may coaching record to Notre 
leads the Irish with a 9-3 Stephanie Pinter .(275) ahave contributed to the slow arne. She took over a team 
record. sophomore Andrea Keys (.27
start. hat finished 34-30-1 last 
"The fall season gave me a "The most pleasant su "Early in the season," said l""<'"u''•· and continues to build chance to see where we were," is that we're generating
program by playing strong 
Louderback, "we did not win a said coach Miller. "We played throughout the lineup," 
ompetition throughout the
lot of matches at the higher well, and we've been able to coach Miller. "Everybody
ountry. The Irish have played
seeds. Once we did some maintain it over time." made a contribution to our su
three national tournaments
shuffiing of the lineup, though, Within her coaching style, cess." 
year, including the Sacra­
and got it settled, we were able Miller expects every player to Speybroeck credits Miller
and South Florida Tour-
give her best effort. "She makes keeping the players ready. "Sto 'start getting wins from all the team want to work harder," like everyone to know whthe positions, and that made a 
"We're playing competition 
commented assistant coach they stand on the team," sh
big difl'erence." all over the country," ex­Kathy Speybroeck. "Everybody said. "She's a goal setter,Despite the lineup switches d Miller. "We're getting to knows what she's trying to everyone know what theirand a schedule that included the competition, and our achieve which has created a lot is." 
ten teams in the top-25, several has changed." 
of team unity." "She believes in us," add individual members of the Irish "She wants to take our team The success of the Irish can Lisa Miller. "She expects us 
o the next level by playing
squad have also emerged as be contributed to their hitting. do well."
inst tougher competition,"
potential NCAA tournament After a slow start, the Irish Although the Irish have en
mmented senior outfielder
participants. The NCAA indi­have increased their team bat­joyed success this year, Mille
Miller.

vidual tournament brackets in­ting average to .249. Sopho­has some disappointments. " 
Miller enhanced the program
dud@ 64 singles players and 32 more Sara Hayes leads the the injuries have been tough
adding four quality freshman 
doubles teams. team at .307, followed by senior our team, especially for tw 
a solid squad. One of those 
Casey McMurray (.299), junior seniors," she explained.
In singles, freshman Wendy 

~~JlHJlut, pitcher Terri Kobata, 
Christy Connoyer (.283), junior see MILLER page 13 

see TENNIS page11 

MEN'S VOLLEYBALL Irish finish a disappointing 33rd at National Club Tournament. 
see page 14 
O~@DrnJrn SPORTS 

IRISH EYE 
An inside look at the Notre Dame sports scene. see page 14 
BOOKSTORE XXII Only 32 teams remain on the road to Stepan. 
see page 13 

I
L ___ 





