
Monday, December 6, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 61 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Vietnam: Art combats censorship 
Museums urged not to fear sensitive issues 
By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 
In this age of multi-cultural­ism and being politically cor­rect, museums are "hiding un­der the sensitivity issue" as a way to censor exhibits, said David Thomas, Director of the Indochina Arts Project, in his lecture "Censorship or sensi­tivity: the role of artists in the transition from war to peace." 
Thomas is the creator of an exhibit entitled "As Seen by Both Sides" featuring both Vietnamese and American art about the Vietnam War. It has broken attendance records in every museum and has re­ceived overwhelming praise from Veterans, Vietnamese­Americans and the general public, according to Thomas. 
The exhibit has opened up dialogue among the different parties involved in the war and has sparked a national debate about the censorship of poten­tially controversial exhibits. 
Museums may self-censor by refusing to consider certain exhibits and instead choosing safe ones such as impres­sionists, Thomas said. 
"As Seen by Both Sides" has been the victim of censorship in at least two known cases. The Minnesota Museum of Art and the San Jose Museum of Art succumbed to pressure from anti-communist South Vietnamese groups and can­celed the exhibit. 
According to Thomas, "Organizers in Atlanta met sim­ilar opposition but instead of bowing to it, they reached out into the community to bring in the opposition." They invited the leaders of the opposition to take part in a panel about the exhibit. Leaders of the opposi­tion were grateful for having been provided with a stage for their voice and everyone "left as friends," said Thomas. 
"In one city, the exhibit has also met opposition from veter­ans," he said. "They objected to two works that they felt stereotyped all veterans as drug abusers and baby killers. While organizers of the exhibit refused to withdraw the con­troversial works, they were willing to allow them to place text by the works or pass out leaflets. Unfortunately, the vet­erans refused any compromise and boycotted the exhibit." 
When Thomas first ap­proached the directors of the National Museum for Fine Arts in Hanoi, they did not want the exhibit to be about the war. But, Thomas convinced them that such an exhibit would be beneficial to both sides. 
"When most Americans think of Vietnam, they think about a war that ended in 1975. And the last images Vietnamese have of Americans are ones of bloodshed and destruction. It is time for both sides to create new visual images," said Thomas. 
But to get cooperation from the museum, Thomas promised to organize a second exhibit highlighting Vietnamese cul­ture. This second exhibit should open in one to two years, he said. 
"Unfortunately, there was minimal involvement from Vietnamese-American artists in the first exhibit," said Thomas. 
"This was partially due to the risk of speaking out in the Vietnamese community. In 1988, when the exhibit was being pieced together, people 
see VIETNAM I page 4 



Dialogue addresses Catholic, Unitarianism differences 
ByJOHNZACH 
News Writer 
Messages of acceptance, unity and the celebration of diversity were the major themes of the concluding installment of the Fireside Chat, "Universal Unitarianism." 
The Multicultural Executive Council has been sponsoring this series of lectures on non­Chr-istian religions entitled "Celebrations Around the World." Adele Lanan, the as­sistant dire<:tor of Student Affairs, said, "The Fireside Chats were offered to enable everyone on campus, regard­less of cultural or religious di­versity, to feel included during the Christian holiday season." 
The final session was pre­sented by John Morehouse of the First Unitarian Church in South Bend. He spoke about the hasicaims of his religion, Universal Unitarianism. 
Morehouse described his re­ligion's view of God as "one light seen through many win­dows." God, or whatever high· er power there is in the uni­verse, is too large and om­nipotent for any one story or religion, he said. 
"We must use our own stories to process God," he explained to the audience. 
According to Morehouse, Universal Unitarianism is de­rived from two sects of re­formed Christian beliefs that bonded together in 1961. The Unitarian religion itself dates back to around 400 years ago. 
"Our religion differs from Christianity in that they reject the teachings of the Trinity. the redemption of human sou1s. Unitarian followers find the ''Death ceased to be a burning Trinity to be filled with contra" issue fortheUniversalists,~.. he dictions that cannot be resolved >said. . . . . 

spiritually or intellectually and, as a result, we broke with the Christian tradition." 
Such famous Americans as Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau at one time belonged to the Unitarian sect, he said. 
·Universalism was a post, Reformation, working•clas$ backed movement that rejected the Christian concept of hell, said Morehouse. The religion based itself on the idea that an all-forgiving God could not pos­sibly banish any of his creation· to eternal damnation. As a re-suit of this belief, he noted, the emphasis of Universalism was on Christ's life, not his death for 

· "All religion has merit, but it must be inclusive rather than e.xclusive," Morehouse said. ............ "Today.t ~or~ho'.JSlil added, "Universal Unitarianism strives ·to show the inherent worth and dignity in every human being; It has no specificcreed of its .own, but rather accepts people from every religious perspectiv¢ imaginable. The religion founds itself on the celebration ()f what is good and the possi­bility of ahigher forc.e inthe Universe.'; A lot of Catholic traditions have been altered to meet the Universal Unitarian ideals, said Morehouse. "The structure of our celebration is a sermon 
sandwich: a hymn. another hymn and lots of stuff in be­tween," he joked. Universal Unitarian& also borrow tradi­tions and beliefs from many other diverse religions. 
"We are a religion without ·god. O~her$ see us as an.oxy­moron, but· we don't," he said. "Universal Unitarians attempt to merge the beliefs of many religions into a whole, in which only the best attributes of each is included. Congregation members are allowed to choose (or themS"elves what form of a higher force they wish to em­
brace." ·· · "So while Universal Unitarians have no specific god, we acknowledge the existence of a spiritual unity, represented by many people in different ways,'' Morehouse said. 

Kohl's party suffers major loss 
By FRANK BAJAK Germany as an indication of the the centrist Free Democrats, Associated Press mood in the troubled east had 5.4 percent, trailing ahead of next year's state and Alliance 90-The Greens, a left­POTSDAM, Germany federal elections. wing environmentalist party, 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's The state's 1.9 million voters which had 6.3 percent. The rest party suffered a big defeat chose mayors and councils in was divided among smaller Sunday in the first electoral test four cities and 1,700 towns parties and independents. after German unification, losing Sunday. 
• more ELECTIONS, page 4 
to the opposi­
With 60 percent of the vote tion Social counted, the left-liberal Social Democrats in Democrats were well ahead Only 61 percent of the state's an eastern with 34.3 percent, the Infas eligible voters turned out, com­state. polling and research service pared to 70 percent in the May 
The results reported. The service was re­1990 vote. reflected porting an unofficial vote count. disillusion in Kohl's Christian Democrats Among the jobless and so­former East had 21.9 percent-down from cially dislocated in eastern Germany with 32 percent in the May 1990 lo­Germany, nostalgia is great for promises of Helmut Kohl cal elections that preceded uni­the social security safety net of swift prosperity after fication. It was vying for second Communist times. There is also Germany's two halves reunited place with the Party of much resentment against west­in 1990 not fulfilled. Democratic Socialism -the ern investors, who have gener­
The balloting in Brandenburg former Communists -that had ally preferred to start from state, which surrounds Berlin, 21.0 percent. scratch rather than try to keep was closely watched across The other mainstream party, alive failing industries. 
State colleges, universities anticipate budget crunch 
Associated Press try to kind of restructure our 
thinking about how we fund 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. higher education. If you think 
Indiana's public colleges and things are going to get better or universities are heading for a not be too difficult, you go on budget crunch in the coming doing things the way you have years that could jeopardize en­been." rollment growth, a report says. Ingle will present the report 
The study by the Indiana to the commission Thursday.Commission for Higher The commission will meet with Education said the post-sec­trustees of all state-supportedondary schools will face a $154 institutions Jan. 14 to discuss million deficit in the 1995-97 ways to offset a deficit. funding cycle. That figure takes "Traditionally, universities into account a 4.2 percent an­have made their requests and nual financing increase and a put their priorities in different three percent annual increase piles -highest priority, highin fees. priority and important," Ingle
"The commission doesn't said. "If we get action on this, have the authority to solve the we're going to identify a bare­problem," Commissioner Clyde bones maintenance budget and Ingle said. "Our objective is to stick with it." 

--------------------~--~---------------~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Mondsy, December 6, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

I've entered the realtn of the sensitive 
Growing up the only girl-------­
of three brothers, I grew up wearing soccer cleats every day, tearing the heads off of Barbie dolls, and looking forward to a boxing lesson before the close of each day. 
I remember as a second grader, l tried to fight with a fourth-grade boy Theresa Aleman who called my brother Assistant News Editor "Taco" one too many times. But I wouldn't let on that I was feeling hurt for my brother. 
Crying, even if pegged in the face with a ball or a fist. was strictly prohibited. I wanted to be tough because 1 loved my brothers and I wanted them to let me hang out with them. I tried to end almost every sentence with "yeah man." 
With the onset of the politically correct, it's­alright-to-cry, be-careful-not-to-offend, watch­your-language attitude, as well as maturity, I've recently begun exploring the more sensi­tive aspects of my personality. While in the mall, I can now look at babies and admit that I find them-dare l say it-cute. 
In a philosophy class, a student revealed how he used to imagine that he traveled the world rescuing princesses from pirates. 
My initial inclination (a manifestation of my childhood desire to be accepted by my broth­ers) was to laugh. But as I looked around the room with a smirk, I realized no one was going to laugh at him. 
lie opened himself to ridicule, and faced none. Maybe I was the only one listening (the class is at 9:30.) But perhaps it was something more than that. No-they couldn't have heard him right. 
But then I thought to myself, even though I never would have admitted it, there were a couple of Halloweens back there when I might have wanted to be a princess instead of a pirate. 
Maybe I did feel bad for tearing the lace off those ankle socks my mother bought me. Maybe it wasn't funny when it looked as though Snow White had been killed by the witeh. Maybe I did understand why my mother didn't want me to spit, cuss, or speak of boogers and farts. Okay. maybe I did think that thP I lolly llobbie Bake Set was an accept­able alternative to Slime. 
This new-found sensitivity is an uncomfort­able thing to admit. Even though I feel secure enough now to express some of my sensitivity, I'm not yet ready to scream when I see a hug or cry every time my feelings are hurt. 
I still think the best part of Total Recall is when he pulls that bug the size of an orange out of his nose. To say something looks like toe cheese or throw-up is still an effective way of describing something's appearance among friends, even if it wouldn't elicit a positive response on a term paper. I'm still the one to kill the roach when the girls scream, even though I feign queasiness these days. 
Climbing trees to retrieve the worm sacks with a stick, catching grasshoppers and locusts for bait, comparing snail collections on the din­ing room table , and using cuss words during any sporting event are still my favorite child­hood memories, but it's possible that Barbie and llolly fans had their fun too. 
The sensitive views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Suzy Fry Production Michael O'Hara Whitney Sheets Sports Kathie Young 
Timothy Seymour Accent Viewpoint Matt Carbone Allison Ebel Allison Ebel 
Lab Tech Tanya Krywaruczenko Dave Hungeling Campuses Graphics Michelle Nasser Brendan Regan 
Zoe Marin 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of thc: Associarn! Press. AJI reprnduc.:rion rights arc reserved. 






.....------~--------~-~----~-------~-------------------­
Monday, December 6, 1993 
By ARTHUR SRB Associated Press 
'f.'<: .,_.:"·:··· 
MADISON, 

Two squad cars were dam-, aged after thousands ot'< Wisconsin football fans surged 
CLUB COLUMN 
December 6, 1993 

Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop offentries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of Lafortune. 
l. IMPORTANT-The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all Presidents ofgraduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government Office. 
2. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION will be having a Christmas Dumpling Party on Thursday, December 9 from 5 to 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. We will play mah-jong and other games. Everyone is welcome. 

3. 
COUNSELINE REMINDER: Anyone can calll-7793 Anytime M­TH, 4 p.m. til midnight to hear a professionally recorded tape on a topic of interest to you! First look on page 3 of your telephone directo­ry for a list of topics dealing with student concerns. Then call COUN­SELINE and request the topic and tape#. It's anonymous too so call soon. 

4. 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S RIGHT TO LIFE proudly pre­sents Father O'Connor "Our Lady and Abortion and What the Church Really Teaches" at the meeting this evening from 7:30 to 8:30 in Montgomery Theatre (107 LaFortune). All are welcome. 


The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Making music 
Yi Xu, violinist, Miriam Eckelhoefer, cellist, and Yin Shi and Jennifer Kennedy, pianists, rehearse for a recital. This was one of many musical groups slated to perform. 
Explosion injures Vienna mayor 
Fifth anti-minorities attack in just three days 
By MAUD BEELMAN 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria 

A letter bomb blast injured Vienna's mayor Sunday and two other bombs were discov­ered and defused, in the latest of six attacks in three days on advocates for immigrants or minorities in Austria. 
The bombings raise fears of growing anti-foreigner vio­lence. Austria has been spared the kind of xenophobic violence that has hit Germany. But such sentiment is rising, fueled part­ly by an influx of refugees from war-torn Yugoslavia. 
Three of the six letter bombs delivered since Friday have exploded, injuring four people. 
Mayor Helmut Zilk, one of the most outspoken proponents of minority rights in Austria and a popular politician, had returned to Vienna from Zurich, Switzerland, on Sunday evening and was opening his mail when the letter exploded, the Austrian Press Association reported. 
Zilk, 66, was rushed to a Vienna hospital where he un­derwent emergency surgery for injuries to his left arm. Deputy mayor Hans Mayr said the injuries were not life-threaten­ing. 
Zilk's wife was being treated at the hospital for shock, but was not injured in the explo­sion, Mayr said. 
Shortly after the letter ex­ploded in Zilk's Vienna home, a sixth letter bomb, sent to Madeleine Petrovic, a leader of Austria's Greens party, was dis­covered, police said. The letter was brought to police un­opened, APA reported. 
Earlier Sunday, a bomb was discovered after being sent to the leader of a Slovene com­munity in Bad Radkersburg on the Austria-Slovene border, au­thorities said. An employee at the community's headquarters became suspicious and took the letter. which had a fictitious return address, to police. 
Three people were injured Friday when two letter bombs exploded. On Saturday, another letter bomb was detected be­fore they were opened. 
WEEK OF DECEMBER 6, 1993 

~----~~--------------------~----------------------------------------------~------------------~---· -----------­page 4 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, Decmber 6, 1993 
Heavy but peaceful voting 
Italy: Leftists win mayoralties 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press 
ROME 

Leftists beat back a challenge by neo-Fascist candidates, in­cluding the granddaughter of dictator Benito Mussolini, to capture mayor's posts in Naples and Rome, vote projections showed Sunday. 
The projected victories give the left momentum going into national elections expected next spring and create the possibility that former Communists could govern Italy for the first time. 
"Now our objective is the (national) government," said Achille Occhetto, leader of the Democratic Party of the Left, the successor to the Communist Party. 
An estimated 8.3 million vot­ers in a country of 57 million people chose mayors Sunday in 129 cities, including Genoa, Trieste and Venice. 
In Naples, Alessandra Mussolini, the actress grand­daughter of dictator Benito Mussolini, lost to Antonio Bassolino, 46, a longtime offi­cial of the Communist Party and the Democratic Party of the Left. according to projections by the DOXA polling agency. 
The 30-year-old Mussolini ran on the ticket of the nco­Fascist Italian Social Movement (MSI). Projections based on about one-third of the total bal­lots gave Bassolino 56.1 per­cent of the vote and Mussolini 
43.9 percent. 
Despite losing, Mussolini called the large number of votes she received a victory. 
"Now we have to go unite our 

By ALEXANDER HIGGINS 
Associated Press 
SAHAJEVO, Bosnia­
llerzegovina 

Bosnian government forces were under attack on three fronts Sunday as fog and ice virtually shut down the interna­tional aid airlift to Sarajevo for a second day. 
U.N. officials said supporters of Fikret Abdic, the breakaway 
Vietnam 
continued from page 1 
forces to face the dangers of the left." she said. "The left is always a danger. With com­munism, there's no future." 
Voters in Rome elected Francesco Rutelli, 39, a Greens politician backed by former Communists and other leftists, over national neo-Fascist leader Gianfranco Fini, accord­ing to projections. With about 20 percent of the vote counted, DOXA put Rutelli ahead 52.4 percent to 47.6 percent. 
Fini, 41, said he too was pleased. If the results hold up, the election shows "a great po­litical affirmation" for his party, Fini said. "Without doubt a new political chapter is open­ing for us." 
Both Rome and Naples had been led by Communists in the early 1980s. 
An independent with leftist backing, coffee magnate Riccardo Illy, was the projected winner in the Adriatic city of Trieste. 
In Genoa, leftist-backed pros­ecutor Adriano Sansa defeated a populist Northern League candidate, and philosopher Massimo Cacciari, also sup­ported by a leftist coalition, won in Venice. 
Thanks to nearly two years of scandal and electoral reforms that ended proportional ballot­ing for parties and forced Italians to choose between indi­vidual candidates, the centrist parties that governed Italy in a series of weak coalitions were virtually shut out in a first round of balloting Nov. 21. 
That gave stark choices: the neo-Fascist Italian Social Movement or separatist and conservative Northern League to the right, and coalitions an­chored by the ex-Communist Democratic Party of the Left across the spectrum. 
The search for voters in the run-offs led the candidates to moderate their images. 

offers contrast in Venezuela 

By KATHERINE HUTT 
Associated Press 
CARACAS, Venezuela 
Millions of Venezuelans turned out for national elec­tions Sunday, standing in calm lines recalling the country's democratic tradition rather than the last two years' vio­lence ,and scandal. 
Chief elections official Isidro Morales Paul said the heavy early turnout indicated that more than 80 percent of the 10 million eligible voters might cast their ballots for president and national and state legisla­tors. 
Although regarded as South America's paragon of democ­racy since the last dictator fled to exile in 1958, Venezuela in the 1990s has been plagued by turmoil. Two military coup at­tempts in 1992 left more than 300 people dead. 
Problems mar Gabon election 
By GREGORY MINTSA Assodared Press 

LIBREVILLE, Gabon 
Irregularities and confusion marred Gabon's first contested presidential election Sunday. Voters openly discussed how many ballots they could cast and wondered whether President Omar Bongo would annul the result. 
The election represented the first challenge to Bongo's 26­year grip on power. Twelve op­position candidates charged 
Muslim leader in the north­western Bihac area, clashed with the Bosnian army in heavy fighting over the weekend. They could not confirm reports of casualties. 
Abdic's forces surprised the government troops by moving Saturday through Serb-held territory in neighboring Croatia, said Lt. Col. Bill Aikman, the U.N. military that he orchestrated the chaos to ensure his victory. 
Armed soldiers guarded polling booths throughout this oil-rich central African nation of 1.1 million people, the gov­ernment said. Land borders and bars were closed for the day. 
The issue of fraud dominated the campaign. Opposition can­didates called for change, while Bongo touted sta,bility and unity. 
The elections were watched by about 100 international ob-

Bosnian government forces reported battling on three fronts as winter nears 
spokesman in Sarajevo. 
Aikman said it was "extreme­ly unlikely" that Abdic's forces could have moved through Serb-held Croatia without the collaboration of Serb forces. 
It was another sign of the in­creasing fragmentation of the conflict, which began 20 months ago with Muslims and Croats allied against Serbs who went to war to oppose Bosnia's secession from Yugoslavia. 

servers who had already criti­cized irregularities in register­ing voters. The government admitted some mistakes were made, but said they were cor­rected last week. 
But some voting stations never opened and those that did opened late. Some stations on the official list apparently did not exist, while the opposi­tion coalition Convention of Force for Change claimed 19 unauthorized voting sites had sprung up in the capital overnight. 
1993--94 ASSISTANT RECTOR APPLICATIONS 
UNDERGRADUATE RESIDENCE HALLS ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 315 MAIN BUILDING 
THROUGH FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1994 
were being killed for having any dialogue with Hanoi." 
Thomas added that while most of the American artists who buried Vietnam after 1975 created their works 10 to 15 years after the end of the war, the Vietnamese art was pro­duced during or immediately after the conflict. 
Thomas also noted the impor­tance of including women in such projects. There was "a noticeable void" at a recent conference Thomas attended where there were no women speakers. "A woman's voice is no less than that of man's." 
According to Thomas, "The exhibit should act as a catalyst for further discussion about the war and its effects. It's not just about a war, it is really about humanity and inhumanity." 
Thomas concluded, "The power of art can change the world." 
Thomas' lecture was one in "The United States and Vietnam: From War to Peace" series. 
-~----------­
------~~--~-~---~-------­
Monday, December 6, 1993 The Observer • MIDDLE EAST NEWS page 5 
Palestinian kills Israeli reservist 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 
HOLON, Israel 

A Palestinian boarded a bus and opened fire with an assault rifle Sunday, killing a reservist before being gunned down by troops. It was the first major attack inside Israel since it signed a peace pact with the PLO. 
Senior ministers warned Israelis to brace for a possible frenzy of attacks by opponents of the accord as the Dec. 13 deadline approaches for Israel to start transferring power to tbe PLO in parts of the occupied territories. 
"In the interim period, the opponents to peace on both sides are flexing their muscles and won't stop at anything, they will use any means, to frustrate the process." Health Minister Haim Ramon said Sunday. 
A radical Palestinian group opposed to the accord, Islamic Jihad, took responsibility for Sunday's attack in a leaflet is­sued in the Gaza Strip. 
In the occupied West Bank town of Hebron, Israeli settler leaders warned at a news con­ference Sunday that their at­tacks on Arabs would continue unless the peace process stops. Palestinian activists also threat­ened to step up violence in a protest at the home of an Arab victim. 
In Egypt, meanwhile, Israel and the PLO resumed talks on Palestinian autonomy but made no progress on their major sticking poi9t: security ar­rangements after Israel with­draws from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank city of Jericho, top PLO negotiator Nabil Shaath said. 
Also Sunday, U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher toured the Middle East to push forward the peace process and was to meet Monday in Amman with PLO chairman Yasser Arafat and Jordanian officials. 
Sunday's bus attack was the most menacing assault inside Israel since it signed the accord with the Palestine Liberation Organization on Sept. 13. It was likely to engender hostility in a public already skeptical about the peace process. 
The Palestinian gunman jumped from a stolen car and tried to hijack the bus as it idled at a bus stop in this Tel Aviv suburb, police said. The gunman began firing into the bus, which carried about two dozen passengers. 
A 32-year-old reserve soldier was fatally shot by the gunman, Israel's national news agency Itim reported. 
The reservist apparently was sitting behind the driver, and radio reports said another sol­dier was lightly wounded in the head. Investigators at the scene said the attacker's gun, an Israel army assault rifle, ap­parently jammed. 
An army sergeant riding near the rear said he loaded his M­16 rifle and ran forward to see the bus driver shoving a Palestinian out the door. 
Sgt. Shlomi Maika, 21, said he yelled at the driver to move the bus and then opened fire through the back window at the Palestinian. 
"I shot a whole clip into the Palestinian and saw him drop to the ground," Malka said. 
Another bus arrived and dis­
gorged soldiers who also 
opened fire, police said. It was­
n't clear whether the gunman 
was already dead by then. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin 
praised the soldiers who "elim­
inated this murderer," and 
vowed to fight terror while con­
tinuing peace negotiations. 
Some Israeli onlookers at the 
scene after the shooting shout­
ed "Death to the Arabs." 
In its statement, opening with 

(/,duenl J:Jenance c5eruice 
Juesday, 7Jecember 7 al 10p.m. in Ihe :73asi/ica. Y?eu. Jimolhy c5cuffy, G. c5. G. presides 
(J.duenl J:Jenance c5eruice 
. 
a verse from the Koran about the glory of dying for God, Jihad said the gunman was Khalid Awad Shihada, from Jebaliya Refugee Camp in the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip. 
It said the 24-year-old bache­lor had enrolled in Gaza's Islamic University after Israel barred him from returning to school in Algeria. His brother is a senior figure in Islamic Jihad abroad. 
Thirty-six Palestinians and 12 Israelis have been killed in since the signing of the accord, which provides for Palestinian self-rule in Jericho and in Gaza as a first step toward a perma­nent settlement in the territo­ries. The PLO expects the deal to culminate in an independent Palestine in the occupied terri­tories. 
A 45-year-old Palestinian vegetable vendor died from his wounds Sunday after being shot by Jewish settlers Saturday as he was riding in a taxi in the occupied West Bank. 
MIA: Israel promised cooperation from Syria 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
DAMASCUS, Syria 

Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Sunday that Syria has promised to cooper­ate in determining the fate of seven Israeli soldiers missing in action in Lebanon, and to grant exit permits by the end of the year to Syrian Jews. 
Christopher, who made the announcement Sunday after meeting for nearly four hours with Syrian President Hafez Assad, called the action on the Israeli MIAs "an important humanitarian gesture by the Syrian government." 
He said Assad planned to in­vite staff members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee to Syria next month to help in the Israeli MIA issue. 
"The Syrian government has offered to facilitate the work of this team to help it in making contact with those who may have information about Israeli MIAs," Christopher said .. 
Another official said that pre­sumably would include such Islamic militant groups as Hezbollah. 
It is not known how many of the MIAs -three missing since 1982 and four since 1986 ­are still alive. 
As for the Syrian Jews, Assad promised that by the end of this month, permits would be grant­ed to the 800-850 seeking them. U.S. officials estimated the total Jewish population of Syria is now about 1,200. 
After Christopher's an­nouncement, a senior adminis­tration official, speaking on the condition he not be identified, called the question of the miss­ing soldiers one of "enormous emotional significance in Israel." 
He said Assad's promise of cooperation was "an example of an effort to reach out at a human level." 
Christopher plans to meet again with Assad on Thursday and hinted that the second ses­sion might result in an­nouncements demonstrating further progress toward thaw­ing relations between Israel and Syria. 
Asked if he thought the ges­ture on the MIAs would lead to a resumption of long-stalled bilateral negotiations between the two long-time enemies, Christopher replied, "I think I'd reserve that announcement for Thursday. We're doing some detailed planning." 
Christopher earlier cautioned against "unreasonable expec­tations" from his meeting with Assad, which were part of the 
U.S. diplomat's latest effort to restore movement to the Middle East peace process. 
"I don't want to create un­reasonable expectations," he said, adding that the latest round of diplomacy was "an opportunity to energize the dis­cussions between Syria and Israel." 
In the days leading up to his visit to Syria, Christopher and his staff were openly concerned about expectations that it might produce a breakthrough in stalled negotiations over the future of the Golan Heights. They also tried to dampen speculation he would offer a range of proposals to encour­age Assad to compromise with Israel. 

A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD 

The Biggest Value North of the Border 
BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE DELIVERY AVAILABLE 234-4015 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Editor 
Business or Economics major preferred. The News depart­ment is also accepting applications for 
Associate News Editor 
For either position submit a two-page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough at the Observer office b Monday, December 6 at 5 p.m.Questions? Calll-5323. 
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, December 6, 1993 
Gore sees NASA plans to ditch Hubble's solar panels 
solution for Endeavour accomplishes every goal during first space walk 
North Korea 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associa1~d Press 
WASHINGTON 

North Korea can be dis­suaded from building nuclear weapons, Vice President AI Gore said Sunday, adding that North Korea must see that the world is determined to keep it non-nuclear. 
Gore, speak­ing on NBC's "Meet the Press'' acknowledged that it was dif­ficult to pre-Ill. diet the~ actions of the ia i s o I a t e d 'AI Gore regime, but it was "most unlikely" that the dispute over North Korea's nuclear program would lead to war. 
"I think that it's very likely that the world will find a way to deal with this problem. But North Korea should not misun­derstand or underestimate the resolve of the world commu­nity," he said. 
Gore said there were "some good things" and "some bad things" about a recent North Korean proposal that would al­low limited international in­spection of its nuclear facilities. 
The vice president said it would be "premature to make a shift in our approach right now." A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Clinton's top national security advisers will meet at the White House on Monday to discuss how to re­spond to the North Korean pro­posal. It was unclear whether or not the president would attend. 
It's a difficult problem, Gore said, and "our basic road map for dealing with it is to do ev­erything we can to explore the possibility that North Korea does not want to build nuclear weapons and to try to persuade them not to do so." 
He said economic sanctions remain an option if North Korea refuses to open up its fa­cilities to inspections. and the administration is working "in a deliberative and careful and determined way" to ensure the cooperation of China and other countries in whatever steps are taken. 
Administration sources said North Korea was willing to per­mit the International Atomic Energy Agency to resume in­spections of some of its facili­ties, but had refused the U.S. demand that it revive talks with South Korea on denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. 

to our favorite Londoners, 
The CIA believes North Korea may have enough nuclear ma­terial for one or two weapons. 
Addam'a Family Valuea (PG13) 
12:30, 2:15, 2:45, 4:30, 5:00, 7:00, 
7:30, 9:15, 10:00 
A Perfect Wor1d (PG13) 1:15, 
4:15, 7:15, 10:15 
The &ev.1y Hillbillies (PG) 2:00, 
4:45, 7:30, 11:45 
The NlghlrMre Bel0111 Chrlatmaa 
(PG) 1:00. 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 
the Three Musket-. (PG) 2:00, 
4:30, 7:15, 9:45 
Josh & S.A.M. (PG13) 2:45, 5:00 Malice (R) 7:15, 9:30 Rudy (PG) 2:00, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 Mra. Doubtflre(PG13) 1:30,4:15, 7:00,9:45 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associa1ed Press 

SPACE CENTER, Houston 
NASA decided Sunday to turn one of the Hubble Space Telescope's troublesome solar wings into instant space junk by simply dumping it overboard during an overnight space walk. 
For the mission's first space­walk early Sunday by the fix-it crew of the shuttle Endeavour, the verdict was "we got every­thing accomplished." 
Story Musgrave and Jeff Hoffman spent nearly eight hours in the open cargo bay. When they left, the space tele­scope had six working gyro­scopes again to guide it, three electronics units to run the gy­ros, and a new set of eight fuses. 
"Jeff and Story today have definitely earned their Dr. Goodwrench certificate and service station Endeavour has qualified for a triple A rating," said David Leckrone, a Hubble program scientist. 
The task of installing a new planetary camera and correc­tive lenses for the Hubble's other instruments was still ahead. But the mission's second spacewalk, beginning late Sunday, was reserved for re­placing the telescope's twin so­lar panels. 
The 40-foot-long panels have provided reliable electricity for the telescope, but they caused a vexing vibration. 
One of the panels responded to a ground command to roll up tight like a window shade for transport back to Earth. But the second panel, badly bent out of shape, stuck with 70 percent of it still unrolled. Mission Control decided Sunday to get rid of it after it is removed from the telescope early Monday. 
Lead flight director Milt Heflin said spacewalker Kathryn Thornton would hold the panel up high over the· cargo bay and conduct "a gen­tle jettison procedure." 
"She's just going to let go of it," Heflin said. "It's going to stay right there. There will be no pushing." 
Shuttle commander Richard Covey planned to fire a small burst from the ship's smallest jets to move the ship away from the panel, leaving it one of 6, 700 pieces of space junk tracked by the North American Aerospace Command. 
It was expected to slowly drop into the atmosphere and burn up, a process that might take a year. 
Each day's activities begin just when prime television time is over, unfortunate timing for NASA because the action beamed from 360 miles above Earth in space is dramatic. 
The first of the mission's five spacewalks, the second longest by American astronauts, lasted seven hours, 54 minutes be­ginning late Saturday. Musgrave and Hoffman suc­cessfully completed their as­signed tasks but not without some difficulties. 
With practiced ease, they re­placed two of three pairs of gy­roscopes, two of three electrical units to guide those gyros and exchanged eight main fuses. 
But when they tried to close a seven-foot-high access door, its four latches would not meet. The door. one of a set of double doors, must close tightly to pro­tect sensitive star trackers from unwanted light. 
It took two hours of pulling and tugging by Musgrave and Hoffman before the doors would close. 
Ledbetter said the misalign­ment was caused because the light metal doors were warmed by different amounts of sunlight when they were open and expanded at different rates. The astronauts were told to close them for one orbit and the latches' position matched again. 
On Tuesday, the astronauts are to install the new planetary camera, on Wednesday it is 

HAPPY 21ST 
Sara & 
Donna! 
(Hope the language barrier hasn't been too rough on you!) 

Love, Katie, Kimberly, Kelly & Sarah 
Astronauts trash non-returnable Hubble wing 
Shunle Endea1•our aslronaurs planned 10 dilch lhe 
Hubble Space Telescopes hem solar pawer wing because lhe panel could not be fully rerracted for  ~ I. ,  .t.bandoned llllar array wiU be gradually decelerated by friction with air molecules. Scienlisls expecllhe lightweighl array to be  
arrtum 10 Earrh.  slowed enough to drop inlo the almosphele and  
bom up in about ayear.  
Hubble Space Telescope  
Second solar array  
was rolled up properly  
on Sunday; His to be  
delached and put inlo  
the shuttle's payload  
bay lor the retum to  
Eal1h.  

Folding Hubble's wings -. '~F Normal~. the He~ble solar panels ! ·' 
are first rolled up into acaniSier lleh). The caruster ~ rotated up agarnstlhe body ollhe telescope 
!center). Astronauts can then • detach the compac1 package ar<l • 
replace it ,.Ill anew one lnglil). • 
corrective optics for other in­struments on the telescope, and on Thursday more electronics will be replaced .. 
The solar arrays are gold-col­ored, flexible plastic blankets ­wings that extend from each side of the telescope. They con­vert energy from the sun into electricity to power the tele­scope's instruments. 
In 1990, shortly after NASA discovered that the telescope's main mirror had the wrong shape to focus accurately, the panels developed a slight shak­ing each time they crossed from sunlight to darkness and vice versa -a sudden temperature change of 200 degrees 32 times a day. 
The frames around the arrays did not accommodate the expansion and contraction caused by the cooling and heat­ing cycles. Engineers blamed that failure for a kink in a sup­porting stem that caused the array to twist and bend, mak­ing it impossible to be rolled up. 
Engineers developed com­puter software to counteract the jitter but that solution ab­sorbed too much computer memory. 
The new arrays, built -like the old ones -by the European Space Agency, work with springs that should not be sub­ject to the same contraction and expansion, experts said. 



CAMPUSES 
Monday, December 6, 1993 page 7 
Students at other universities stake out study territory 

That does not always work so major at the University of well, however, depending on Southern California. "But I the roommate situation. can't study in the library either 
"I can't study in my room because there is not enough because my friends talk to me room," she continued. and everyone is busy doing Veronica Ravago, a classmate something-there are just too ofWylie's, agreed. many distractions," said "If I go to the library to study Genevia Wylie, an education during finals week, I end up socializing," said Ravago, a business major. 
Having a noisy or bother­some roommate can really be a drag at Northwestern University, according to John Irvine, an economics major. 
·~well, there's always the roommate factor, which is neg­ative in my case, because I can hear mine cruching all the time and it drives me looney tunes," said Irvine. 
Sometimes, the overcrowded library leads students to study in places that they would have never thought of studying before. 
"I like to study out at the 'claw,' which is a large fountain at the center of campus,'' said Joey Kosinski, an aerospace engineering major at Stanford University. 
"The library is really crowded during finals week and you don't want some slob sitting six inches away from you while you're trying to study so I just usually go to a coffee shop or something," Irvine. 
"I've studied at an indoor swimming pool," said Aleman. 
"A lot of people resort to studying at Burger King or McDonald's," said Raffucci. 
In essence, no campus library appears equipped to deal with every student studying at once. In order to find a suitable spot to study, it often takes creativi­ty, regardless of the major. 
By' ROB ADAMS 
News Writer 
Finals time is upon us once again and Notre Dame students will be looking for places to study. Unfortunately, space is limited and, during finals, tra­ditional areas such as LaFortune or the Hesburgh Library become exceptionally crowded and finding a decent place is almost as hard as the finals themselves. But what is it like at other universities? 
"Our campus library is usual­ly pretty full during finals week," said Sharon Chang, a managerial studies major from Rice University. "We have a fairly small library and you def­initely have to reserve a table for yourself early." 
Maria Raffucci, a biology major from Virginia Tech, agreed. 
"I can't study at the library during finals week, the library is too loud," she said. 
The next most popular place to study is probably in one's own room. 
"I usually study on my bed in my room," said Tom Aleman, a history of science major at Harvard University. 
ND relieves stress with class and dignity 
By KAREN DUBAY nalia are strategically placed managers to cut this event last News Writer on tables, desks, and carrels to spring. ward off other students. This Some other events to antici­
One of the first detectable has created a situation in which pate are the Lyons Hall "Fun sigr;s,. tb,at finals are approach­a few students are guaranteed Run", the Keenan Hall "Bun ing is evident on the second study spaces every night while Run", and the legendary floor of the library. The social others wander the campus des­Alumni Hall streak of the sec­circles that once dominated perately attempting to find an ond floor of the library. have now silently dissolved. available table. Lyons Hall is starting a new The noise level on this floor Dorm study lounges are tradition this year in memory of inexplicably drops to levels pre­crowded many nights of the Mara Fox. They will be hosting viously found only on the top year. During finals week, they a 2-3 mile "Fun Run" on the few floors of the building. The can become war zones. first study day, Saturday, lazy days of lounging in dorm Anonymous sources in both December 11. All the money rooms watching syndicated sit­Grace and Flanner have spoken that is collected from this event coms are replaced with frantic of revolts in the precious study will be given to Mara Fox's searches for the ultimate in caf­lounges on each floor. Students memorial scholarship. feine highs and comfortable, who have left their belongings The men of Keenan always yet quiet study spaces. in carrels for days straight have put on a great show with their 
For many students, it is time allegedly returned to their "Bun Run". A junior resident once again to strap on the spots only to find various cruel of Keenan Hall stated, "Last back-pack and head to the notes and threats. In Flanner, year, we had a senior stay in library, Nieuwland, or one student claimed he even the back of the pack to film it LaFortune. As exam time clos­received numerous harassing on a portable camera. One of es in on the Notre Dame stu­phone calls. the highlights of the film was dent body, many students once Many students attribute this when a novice rollerblader lost again are forced to take their lack of study space to the fact his footing and fell in the snow. semester courses seriously. that there are very few building He wasn't pleased." He contin­
An addition to finals week in which students may study ued, "Most modes of trans­last year was the opening of late at night. The library, portation are covered in the the library to 24-hours. This Nieuwland, and the basement run; there are people biking, allowed many students in study of LaFortune do not have the running, and rollerblading. groups additional space in capacity to give all students a Hopefully this year, we would which to work. This addition place to study. like to get the golf cart also allowed for many student Many South Quad students involved." innovations. also feel that since the Security Although he wouldn't give the 
Books and other personal Building was closed to studying exact time and date of the items were left unattended in last year, they are forced to event, he stated, "Keep your the library for many days and walk all the way across campus eyes open the next couple nights. Some students resorted to find a place to study. weeks -try not to get to bed too to bringing over pillows, sleep­This shortage of study spaces early." ing bags, and alarm clocks to especially during final exams Alumni's mad dash through 
their newly created "homes". A has been recognized both by the second floor of the library is select few very spirited stu­the students and faculty and also a sight to behold. Most of dents even found the time to staff. Although there are cur­these men wear only sunglass­decorate their study spaces rently no solutions to the prob­es, Santa hats, and bells. with Christmas lights, snow lem, it is important to note that Megan Duffy, a junior from flakes, and other holiday items. in the Colloquy for the Year Breen-Phillips, stated, "The 
Although these students 2000, one of the goals is the Alumni Streakers are a great should have been commended creation of more 24-hour tension breaker for all of us for their efforts, they also cre­space. For now, many students studying on the second floor. ated a situation where many must rely on their creativity We can just sit back with an students were left "homeless" and instincts to get them iced tea and enjoy the show." during finals week. At this through finals week. All of these various traditions stressful time, the lack of study Although students must at Notre Dame have been out­space on campus becomes struggle to find a space in lets for many students at exam incredibly obvious. which to study, there are many time. Although exam week is 
More and more students finals week traditions on cam­one of the most stressful times 
resort to "staking out their ter­pus for which to watch. Sadly, of the year, Notre Dame stu­
ritory" in the most valuable the Pancake Breakfast ended dents seem to fight the stress study spaces. Pens; pencils, last year. The large-scale food with class, dignity, and a great and other studying parapher-fights forced the dining hall deal of creativity. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, December 6, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Hcroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager ....... , .............. Sreph Goldman  
Sporu Editor ..........•......... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary'• Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It docs nor necessarily reAect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accenr Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries, ltuc:rs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those 
ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Spons  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Church has never claimed infallibility of its moral teachings 
Christ's representatives, depu­term "infallible" only to utter­and a teaching of the· Church 
bility. truth, but to say that the
tized to serve the upbuilding of ances that fulfilled the condi­which is immune from error." 
In 1870, the First Vatican Church is infallible when it
the Church in the purity of the tions enumerated here. The Church also concedes
Council officially defined the crafts doctrines concerning
living faith." Furthermore, "the According to a well-respected that when an individual finds
infallibility of the Pope in the morality is to misunderstand
plenary exercise of teaching Church historian, even the most himself struggling with a moral
Doctrine of Infallibility. As ar­the notion of infallibility, even
power comes into play only conservative of theologians issue, his or her conscience
ticulated in the New Catholic by the standards of the Roman
when a doctrine concerning would agree that the Pope has can, after certain requirements
Encyclopedia. the doctrine Catholic Church. 
faith or morals is defined, i.e., spoken infallibly, in the strict are fulfilled, provide the person
states that "when the Roman Finally, I am not writing to
delineated with a finality be­sense of the word, only twice: in with guidance for resolving the
pontiff, 'in discharge of his of­become another participant in
yond all challenge or recall, the 1880's in creating the question. Allow me again to re­
fice as shepherd and teacher of the on-going debate about
and is imposed peremptorily for Doctrine of the Immaculate fer to the theologian quoted
all Christians, in accord with moral issues that permeates the 
the acceptance of all the faith­Conception and in 1950 con­above. When addressing the
his supreme apostolic authority, Viewpoint section. I simply
ful." cerning the bodily assumption subject of an individual's con­
defines a doctrine concerning would like to demonstrate that
In other words, the Pope and of Mary into heaven. science as it relates to the
faith or morals to be held by the topic of the Catholic Church 
the Council of Bishops exercise The Church as a Council has moral teachings of the Church,
the whole Church', he teaches and morality is complex and
their infallibility only when they also, on very rare occasions, he states the following: "It is 
infallibly by reason of the multi-faceted; different per­
speak as representatives of the defined certain statements as taken for granted that the
Spirit's aid proper to his special spectives emerge even within
universal Church and, at the infallible proclamations, but Church's moral teaching is nor­
role as 'the center of ec­the boundaries of the Church. It
same time, clearly and explic­neither it nor the Pope have mally a source for positive illu­
clesiastical unity"'. would be to the benefit of any­
itly define their teachings as ever done so concerning moral mination for the Christian in 
The Bishops can also teach one engaging these issues to
protected from any error. issues. In the words of a na­forming his or her conscience.
infallibly provided they meet as inform him or herself about the 
Prior to Vatican I, it was pop­tionally recognized theologian, If, however, after appropriate 
a council that includes the facts. Consult as many sources
ularly believed that all of the "The Church has never explic­study, reflection, and prayer, a 
Pope. Thus, the Pope and the as possible to get an accurate
Church's teachings were infal­itly claimed to speak infallibly person is convinced that his or
Bishops define doctrines that view of the issue. 
lible statements, but at the First on a moral question, so there is her conscience is correct, in 
are free of any possible error ABEL OLIVAS
Vatican Council, the Church of­probably no question as yet of a spite of conflict with the moral
"only when they exercise in its Adjunct Instructor 
ficially took a stance on this is­conflict between an individual's teachings of the Church, the 
supreme degree the prophetic Department of Romance Language and
sue and agreed to apply the fallible decision in conscience person not only may but must 

office committed to them as DOONESBURY 
ACT/JAUY, IT 15. I flOCTOR£[} UP
Dal-Te.x:: Can 
THAT PHOTO !3AC!< IN /1167. I UI4S
confirm "C~­
TRYING TO PUTMY515tr 7HRMH
arette Holder 
GRAfJ 9Cif(X}f...., ANI? CUV5Pif?ACY
Man"isex­
NUTS IAJ/3R£ PAYING 7VP [)()f....­
Am1:;as53dor 
LAR F&.NfW&VI/XNC&,..
Duke. Exit Wound. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
I THOUGHT 1'/J Mlli<W THAT 
?G4M I?Kt, !3UT I GU&SS 13Y NOW TH&R£'5 AWHOt/3, !3R/6HTN/31).} G&N/3RA770N OF 77NY 7CONS 
5CUI<.RYING A80UTFOR. LCAf?Sl 
Literature 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''I'm one of those cliff-hang­
ing Catholics. I don't believe in God, but I do believe that Mary was his mother." 
-Martin Sheen 

ACC~NT 
Monday, December 6, 1993 page 9 
Christmas comes to SoV\th BeJI\d Children's Fund brings gifts to the homeless 
By DAVE TYLER 
Accent Writer 
hristmas time is here 
with all its heartwarm­
ing images. Gathering with family and friends. Lighted trees and houses. Presents. Hot chocolate by the fire on a cold December night. Wide-eyed children gazing at a tree full of presents as they run down the stairs on Christmas morning. 
But for many children, there are no such images. Christmas is no different to them than any other day of the year. There is no home where they can run down the stairs, no tree and no lire. The only gift they want is a decent meal.· 
In South Bend, there is an effort under way to make Christmas as memorable for these forgotten children as it is for those more fortunate. The South Bend Center for the Homeless is sponsoring a drive called the Children's Fund, a wish list program to make Christmas more than just a myth for the hundreds of home­less and needy chidren in the South Bend area. 
This program asks children served by the Center to write down what they would most like for Christmas. The wishes are then filed where would-be Santa Clauses can select a pre­sent they would like to donate. The Center will also accept monitary donations, and then purchase gifts themselves. 
The program is run with the help of the South Bend Community Schools Corporation and the South Bend YWCA. According to the Center's Lida Harris, there's much to be done at this time of year. "We have requests from kids ages 3 to 18," said Harris. "And they want everything under the sun." 
'Homelessness is 
not just a holi­day thing, and helpinQthe homeless ana 
needY. shouldn't  be  
either.'  
Lida Harris  

Indeed, when Harris runs down the list, it reads like a Toys 'R' Us catalog. The requests include Walkmen, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles toys, Talking Barney dolls, Tonka Trucks and Cabbage Patch Kids. But Harris said more practical gifts are needed too, such as towels, gloves and winter clothing. 
The program began in 1989, and response has increased steadily as public recognition has grown. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been part of that public recog­nition as interns at the Center, through community service and as donors to the Children Fund. 

The men of Sorin Hall are planning a party on Fri., Dec. 10 at the Center. They will entertain the children and pre­sent their gifts at that time. 
Throughout the fall, residents of Sorin have been spending two hours of their Sunday nights working with children in the Center as tutors and play­mates. 
While this Christmas drive is important, Harris thinks that year-round involvement like Sorin's is more significant. "Homelessness is not just a hol­iday thing, and helping the homeless and needy shouldn't be either," says Harris. "It's a year-round process." 
The Center serves about 25 families and 64 children per month, but during the winter months those numbers go up. Except for the Christmas sea­son, the support for these fami­lies from outside sources is sparse. 
Despite what Harris believes is a tendency for giving to slack off after the Holidays, she thinks this program is impor­tant for everyone involved. "It takes some of the load off the Center, it makes the donors feel good, and it makes the kids feel great," she said. 

Anyone who wishes to make a donation can send money to the The Center For The Homeless, Attention Children's Fund, 813 South Michigan 46601. 
For more information on what help is needed call (219) 282-8700. With a little help, it can be a wonderful time of the year for everybody. 
Pianist ani?{ptre 'Dame senior CJ'im 0 ':1\&i{{ wislies everyotie )2{ Merry Christmas' witli liis a[bum of/io[iiay songs 
By LAUREN KALBERER 
Accent Writer 
I
f you're looking for a great holiday 
gift idea this season, check out "A Merry Christmas," Tim O'Neill's collec­tion of original solo piano arrangements of traditional Christmas carols. 
O'Neill, a Notre Dame senior from New Prague, Minn., and a member of the Notre Dame Glee Club, is well-known from the various concerts he has performed for the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
A talented musician, O'Neill has been playing the piano since the age of five. Beginning in the first grade, O'Neill took lessons for eight years. 
"Mom chained me to the piano bench," he said. Though he enjoyed the lessons for the first few years, he quit in the eighth grade because he preferred to "play my own stuff instead of classical music." 

O'Neill's idea to record a collection of Christmas carols came to him during his senior year in high schooL Through the encouragement of his parents and friends, he decided to pursue his idea. 
"I just hung a microphone by the piano and made a recording," said O'Neill. Last Christmas, he made 100 copies, which quickly sold out to friends and relatives. 
In the summer of 1992, O'Neill decide to make a professional recording of his tape in Minneapolis, find a design for the cover, and basically "go all out with 
it... 

A sample of the Christmas songs on his tape includes traditional favorites such as "Sillent Night," "What Child Is This," "0 Come All Ye Faithful," and a few original solo pieces. 
"Reminiscent Joy," an original piece, is O'Neill's personal favorite on the tape. "It's a reflective song-it puts me back in touch with the happy memories I've had in life," he said. 
O'Neill is pleased with the success the tape has garnered thus far. "What start­ed out as a small project has gone really well," he said. 
As a senior marketing major, O'Neill is uncertain about his future career plans. Though many seniors search for jobs with major corporations after gradua­tion, O'Neill's increasing feeling is that "I should follow my talents," and will probably professionally record songs year round. 
O'Neill is excited about one of his last 
performances at Notre Dame in the 
Keenan Revue next semester. O'Neill, 
however, would not comment on the 
content of his skit, preferring to leave 
his act a surprise. 

One musician O'Neill said that he has admired since he was young is Billy JoeL O'Neill said that he would probably give another concert of his renditions of Billy Joel classics in the Spring-during February or March. 
O'Neill said that he is looking forward -­to playing some of Joel's newer songs. 
Before Thanksgiving break, O'Neill had the opportunity to see the Piano Man in concert in Chicago. "It was an 
'ljust hl!ng a microphone by
lhe P.lano and made a recording.' 
Tim O'Neill 

incredible experience. [Joel] is an inspi­ration," said O'Neill. 
On Dec. 12 at 7:30 p.m. at the JACC, fans will also be able to see O'Neill play the piano at the Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas concert. 
Copies of O'Neill's "A Merry Christmas" are on sale for $7.95 plus tax at the LaFortune Information desk, the Country Harvester, and the Hammes Bookstore. In addition, both dining halls will be selling copies for $8 (tax included) during lunch and dinner today and tomorrow. 
A portion of the profits from "A Merry Christmas" will benefit the Salvation Army for the program "Adopt a Family for Chrismas." according to O'Neill. 

pagelO The Observer • SPORTS 
Volleyball 
continued from page 16 

damental things well," noted Brown. "We needed to find our rhythm again." 
The Irish were able to find that rhythm in the person of junior outside hitter Nicole Coates. 
Coates was a question mark coming into the match, as a muscle spasm in her back had kept her from jumping in prac­tice all week. However, she ab­solutely controlled the points after the timeout, notching four kills in a row to put the Irish back in the lead at 12-10. 
"I think not jumping all week really paid off," stated Coates, who had a career high in kills with 14 while hitting .545. "Because Julie (Harris) and Molly (Stark) did such a good job keeping the middle occu­pied, I found myself in a lot of one-on-one situations." 
The fact that Coates was able to take advantage of those situ­ations turned the match deci­sively in favor of Notre Dame. The Huskers would not score again in game two as another Coates kill sandwiched between a Stark quickset kill and block swept the game for the Irish. 
The opening moments of game three proved crucial for both sides. Nebraska needed to strike quickly in order to get back in the match, but the Irish would not relinquish their ad­vantage, opening up a 7-4 lead. 
"The 2-0 lead really boosted our confidence," noted Brown. "Entering game three, I saw in our players a hunger and de-Monday, December 6, 1993 
sire to put it away then and there." 
Notre Dame's passing was at its best in the final game, as the Irish made Nebraska scramble for every scoring opportunity. 
"Jenny Birkner had an espe­cially good game passing for us," said Brown. "She always seemed to be there with a solid play that let us run any type of oiTense we wanted." 
With Birkner allowing setter Karlan to do her job, the Irish were able to set up opportuni­ties against the Nebraska block. Karlan was especially effective with backsets to Peters and Birkner and quieksets in the middle to Stark (13 kills, 10 digs) to keep the large Husker front line off-balance. 
Two Coates kills from the back row followed by kills by Stark and Karlan stretched the Irish lead to 12-6. Notre Dame then caught the Huskers in a bad rotation with McFadden in the back row, an unfamiliar spot for her, and Stark took full advantage, serving at her for an ace and a 13-6 advantage. 
The Irish got to match point on a passing error by the Huskers. However, they were unable to take advantage im­mediately, as both Stark and Karlan served for the win but were denied by Weston, who ended up with 15 kills, the only Husker in double figures. 
Peters was able to answer Weston with two cross-court kills of her own. which gave her the opportunity to serve match point. After a rally, Nebraska's Billie Winsett hit long from the left side, sending the Irish bench streaming to half-court to celebrate their victory. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassificds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Typing 287·4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations. Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
Bulletin for Invitational Interviews January 24 · February 4 
Submit resumes in Career and Placement Services by Dec. 8. 
ILOST & FOUNDJ 
Lost a gold and pearl pin Between the Football Stadium and LaFortune via O'Shag and Neuwland Science. 
If found, please call631-5243. 
REWARD: Lost small silver and gold seiko watch with a cracked face. Much sentimental value. Call Susan x4189 
Lost black Panasonic walkman next to Allegro Cafe -downstairs La Fortune on Monday midnight. Please contact desperate owner at 2257. If you don't want to return the walkman. at least please Ill return the CASSETIE. It's essential for this guy's survival. 
Found: a Casio graphing 

calculator in the student computer 
lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day 
November 11 . Call Jarrad x4186 

$25 REWARD. Return please. 1 brown envelope type glasses case, with pocket clip. Front side has 2 pockets containing a matched set silver in color Parker pen & pencil each has gold pocket clips. pencil has gold tip. Keepsakes. Lost in vincinlty Library, Basilica, Grotto. S. Dining Hall last week. Contact Steve 289-5242 after Bpm, or Library lost and found. 
LOST: silver and gold women's watch lost somewhere between the south din­Ing hall and LaFortune reward if found. call Beth at 2784 
Gold earring found in front of NOH on Wed. 1211. Call Matt at x1430 w/ description. 
FOUND: MEN'S DIVERS WATCH WITH LEATHER BAND OUTSIDE O'SHAG WED BEFORE THANKS­GIVING BREAK 
CLAIRE 273-0926 
WANTED 
Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55B4 
Seeking female, non-smoking room­mate for sprg sem. Grad/law stu­dent or young faculty/staff. H289­59B9, W1-7421. 
NANNY:ND/SMC grads needs stu­dent for 2 children.Granger home,Tu-Thur 2:15­7pm.References,271-1645. 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Choose Cancun. Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama. Daylona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-B222 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE! CALL (919)929-439B EXT31 
BEACH Springbreak Promoter. Small or large groups. FREE trips 
and CASH. Call CMI1-B00-423­
5264. 
Need rides to MINNEAPOLIS after 4:00 Sat. 18. Please call3486 NEED A RIDE TO LONG ISLAND FOR XMAS BREAK CALL SEAN AT 299-1307 

NEED ROOMMATE for spring '94 semester. Campus View apts. Call 273-4941. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3 bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st. walk to ND. Washldryr, dishwashr, 2 car garage, 600/mo + uti!. Show by appt. 233-6523. 
FURNISHED B BEDROOM HOME 1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
ROOMMATE NEEDED Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs 271-1399 
2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES NEAR ND ' AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR 232-2595 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings, necklaces, and bracelets all at high­ly reasonable prices. Great Christmas gifts! Call Jessica at 4­2963 
19BO Olds Toronado, transmission rebuilt, runs great, need minor body work, $500. Tel: 4-4536 
Fly round trip from Midway to Los Angeles during Christmas Break for 2. Call 259-1 OB6 
BAHAMA-CRUISE 5 Days 4 niles $2BB/couple Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri 
10-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext. 607 
BIKE, U-lock, clip-on lamp $20. Gabor 233-8745 
TICKETS 
Notre Dame Bowl Tickets For Sale {317) 879-B497 
Save $200! United Air round trip So Bend -SF Originally $498 now $29B 4-1156 Moe 
PERSONAL 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK INVITES ALL STU­DENTS, GRAD STUDENTS, LAW STUDENTS TO ITS FIRST STU­DENT/ALUMNI GET-TOGETHER ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1993 AT 6:00PM AT REIDY'S RESTAURANT 22 East 54th Street, New York NY. For info call Carey Lamont {212)B48-7351 or Monique Headley (914)251-8669 
MARCH FOR LIFE FRIDAY, January 21 DC TRIP If interested call ND Right to Life 631-9006 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
Bulletin for Invitational Interviews January 24 -February 4 
Submit resumes in Career and Placement Services by Dec. B. 
G'day NDA-PORT LODGERS OF SPRING '93: COTIOSLOE? NOlA­But don't forget Dec. 10th. You know where, bring a present take the keys-you're fine to drive. 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
$ 

NEED CHRISTMAS CASH? 
STOP BY THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
1%1NTEREST $10-$250 30 DAYS 
MON.-FRI. 11:30-12:30 NEXT TO INFO DESK 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
$ 

AUDITIONS AUDITIONS 
for SMC musical play 
QUILTERS 

Ail female actors, dancers, singers 
Mon., Dec. 6 
Tues. Dec. 7 
?p.m. 

Regina Room 16, SMC 
FOR APPT. CALL 2B4-4640 Please bring song (with music) Monologues provided. 
Julie and Tom long to adopt your infant into our loving New England home. Your child will grow up in a happy home near great schools, parks and beaches. Call collect any­time (508)535-371 B. Easy to talk to. 
Adoption: the placement of your child may be the most precious gilt you could make. ND alum wants to be mom through your gift. Professional couple, country home, with lots of love and faith. Strictly legal. Call Tricia and Jim 1-800-820-1139. 
Quality Copies, Quickly 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-COPY 
ADOPTION: ND grad and wife, hap­pily married for eight years, wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm, lov­ing home with kindness and patience from a full-time mom and devoted dad. Please call Wendy and Tim at 1-B00-440-B5BB anylime 
Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on Luxury Yachts Seven day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $49B Each, Groups of 6. 
1/800-999-SAIL (7245) 

SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
Bulletin for Invitational Interviews January 24 -February 4 
Submit resumes in Career and Placement Services by Dec. 8.­
#######Clothe the naked####### If you know where I can buy the!­shirt "Why do all the trees bend to the west?" Call Bevo at X2569 
BEER GAMES II (the book) GREAT GIFT order NOW receive FREE Intellectual Beer Games, Offensive Jokes! Send $8 cash/check ($7 +$1 S&H) Shipped w/in 48 hrs COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: PO BOX2456 AMHERST. MA 01004 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING TONIGHT 1216 7:30 107 LAFORTUNE 
LOVING COUPLE HOPING TO ADOPT "II you're looking for a home to bring your precious baby to, we've been waiting very long for a miracle like you." Childless couple dream of loving your baby. Notre Dame grads. lawyer dad, future full­time mom. cozy home where wish­es come true, friendly suburb with children, relatives nearby. Medical, legal, counseling, court approved living exp. paid. Confidential. Call our attorney: (70B)957-6B33. 
KEVIN. Christmas -It's that time of year, So I'll bring you lots of holiday 
cheer. There are 12 Days of Christmas, And 12 gifts you'll get... When the clock strikes 5, Get ready get set. 
The first gilt is simple and surely you'll see, That I'm not going to hand you a partridge in a pear tree. 
Gilt 2 will require somewhat of a hike, But you'll soon be rewarded with something you like. Just go to Badin and visit your friend, And she'll give you 2 things I found in South Bend. 
(You must wait until the 15th! Keep watching for more clues) KELLY 
Zito. You tan so well!i 
TENSION .... TENSION 
Selling Dec 19 ticket-Midway to Dallas via Tulsa -call Paul @ 11 B3 

~-----~-------------~--~----------~------~-­
Monday, December 6, 1993 
Irish swimmers defend titles at National Catholic meet 
By KELLY CORNELIS "When I touched, I was pretty Sports Writer sure I had beaten the guy, but I didn't want to look," said 
After the waves had settled at Nathe. "But then I heard this Holfs Aquatic Center, both the roar from our side of the pool Notre Dame men's and wom­and I knew I'd see a one next to en's swimming and diving lane six." teams had successfully de­"It was the most exciting way fended their National Catholic to win a meet, coming down to Championship titles. the last relay to win," said 
The women dominated the Beville. "And half of the ex­meet, scoring 941.5 points, citement was that LaSalle had compared to 584 points for sec­four guys who were in the fi­ond-place LaSalle. For the men, nals of the 100 free, so we the point spread was consider­knew we had to swim our ably smaller, as they edged fastest times." LaSalle, 814-807. Junior Mike Keeley was a 
The men were neck and neck double-winner, claiming both with LaSalle throughout the the 1650 and 500 free. Beville meet. After the first day of also won two individual events, events, the Irish led by seven the 100 and 200 fly. In addition points, and held a one-point to leading the deciding relay, lead heading into the final day. Nathe also won the 200 free There were over 20 lead and placed second in the 100 Karen Day lor, both freshmen, early is a great sign for the compiling 491.25 points. Allchanges over the course of the free. 
swam record times in their spring season," Heath added. three female divers placed inthree-day event. The women's meet lacked the events. Brooks broke pool The Irish divers also domi­the top eight spots. 
The men's victory hinged on dramatic finish of the men's record with her victories in the nated the meet. For the men, Women's Coach of the Year,their performance in the last meet, but their blazing times 100 and 200 backstroke, and Sean Hyer qualified for the Tim Welsh was elated by theevent-the 400 freestyle relay. made it just as exciting. 
Daylor set a meet record with NCAA Zone Championships in victories. "This win is a tributeThe Explorers gained an early Sophomore Jesslyn Peterson, her 57.65 win in the 100 fly. both the one and three meter to the spirit, the energy, and
lead in the race, but sopho­the Outstanding Female 
"Everyone swam really well," events, and broke the meet the love of the sport these peo­mores Ry Beville and Dave Do­Swimmer of the meet, won in­said captain Kristin Heath. "We records in both events as well. ple possess," stated Welsh.
herty were able to catch up. dividual events and three re­took control of the meet from His efforts earned him the title "We've worked hard for a longThen senior captain Dave lays. She earned NCAA consid­the first session, winning all the as Outstanding Male Diver for time and are very excited." 
Nathe anchored the Irish to vic­eration times in the 200 and relays and trials in every ses­the meet. On the women's side, This championship meet was
tory, outstretching LaSalle's 400 individual medley, with 
sion. sophomore Liane Gallagher a great finish for the Irish asRyan Young by a fraction of a times of 2:03.60 and 4:23.44 
"For us to swim this fast this won the three-meter event, they end their fall season.
second, 3:04.38 to 3:04.45. respectively. Erin Brooks and 
Belles earn first win on hardwood in Roundball Tournament 
By Nicole McGrath against DePauw University, 76-for this game." up that missing key. ample with her hustle, "Wood 
Sports Writer 72, last Friday. Saint Mary's took those big "Katie Lalli has picked up a said. "It's becoming conta­
"The chemistry's been slow­steps as they hosted the Round lot of the slack since Holmes gious." 
Coach Marv Wood taught the going because we're small and Ball Tournament last weekend. and Snyder left," Wood said. Catching the fever off the 
Belles a course in science so inexperienced," Wood said, As host, they won one game She also came through as a bench is forward Mollie 
they could get their first win "but we took all the big steps and lost one game, to Adrian good rebounder, he added. Wheeler. Wheeler had six 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 

Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge ofMacintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following General Board position: 
~iewpoint Editor 
Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduate or graduate student is encouraged to apply. 
The editor is responsible for the contents ofthe Viewpoint section, from letters to columns to cartoons. Applicants should have good management and interpersonal skills. To apply, submit a personal statement and resume to David Kinney by Monday, December 6, 1993. Call David Kinney at 631-4542ol Rolando de Aguiar at 631-4541 with questions about the position or the application. 
College on Saturday. Forward Lalli has been playing points, five rebounds and two This first win means more in the post which is a change steals. than a 1-5 record to the Belles. for her. "Mollie plays both forward 
''I'm beginning to feel good According to guard Liz Ver­post and center," Wood said. "If because they're willing to work nasco, Lalli and Taubenheim we want quickness, we go to hard and pay the price," Wood have been important in making Mollie." said. up for the team's lack-of-height The hustle added up to Saint 
The hard work showed up in problem. Mary's hitting 68 percent of the Belles' play in all sorts of "We have to work harder un­their shots from the line, ac­ways. Forward Jennie Tauben­derneath the boards," Ver­cording to Wood. heim led the team with 27 nasco said. But Saint Mary's lost at the points, 8 rebounds and 3 steals. As for outside the key, for­line on Saturday against 
"Jennie is a key," Wood said, ward Anne Mulcahy drained Adrian, 78-67. "because she does it all for us." four three-pointers against De­Adrian blew Saint Mary's out 
But Taubenheim cannot fill Pauw and three against Adrian. of the water hitting 22 free the shoes of last year's seniors "She's beginning to be a good thows compared to the Belles' Kim Holmes and Julie Snyder. rebounder and make the good eight. Both players, known as the passes," Wood said, "and I wish "We were just about out of "twin towers," had been the she was about 4 inches taller." gas," Wood said, "but we found needed height inside, the key What the Belles have lacked out we can come from behind 
-~

defensively for the Belles. in height, they are making up in in a game." According to Wood, the un­quickness. Saint Mary's ended the first derclassmen have helped shore "Taubenheim's a great ex-half down to Adrian by 13 

Enjoy Holiday Refreshments as you browse among our great gift ideas. 
Continue your collection of memories with IRISH VILLAGE. Fifteen great collector 
Monday thru Saturday
pieces are available! 
Dec."6'h -ll'h 

Smile as you read Suzy's Zoo and Farside Christmas cards, and don't forget, all of the 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. ornaments and Christmas decorations are hand crafted! 
Our handcrafted stockings, yummy candies IU.P.S. Daily Service I and huggable teddy bears make the holidays fun, and our beautiful angels bring peace to all. 
See You Soon, 

631-6714 
and Happy Holidays! 

Lower Level-LaFortune 
~ Notre Dame 
points. With seven minutes left in the game, the Belles were behind by one. 
"They thought they'd come in and waltz all over us," Wood said. 
The Belles held their own by outscoring Adrian in field goals and with strong leadership. 
"Liz and Jennie lead the team more by example, play on the floor, rather than vocally," Wood said. 
Saint Mary's takes on Wheaton College this Wednes­day at home. 

Montego !lay l•..aao &~$41• No,rll Ia..!coo &~ $44• Cancun MoJdco &~ $a•Dayt-• aoach, FL 
&~$14t Pan-City 8..ch, FL &~$12. 
Local Contacts: Angle Walker @634-4659 Mike Cloonan @634-4451 Michael Roskell @634-1121 

120 North Aurera 11•• Ithaca. NY 14&50 
1-800-648-4849 

~--p-ag-el2~ ~ ~~·~ -~ The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 6, 1993 
I 
I 
~~------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~--------------------------~------~--­
College Bowl lineup 
Las Vegas lAs~IT.. Ball S1a1e (~2-1)&iHil'.ll. vs. Utah S1a1e (6-5) las Vegas, Nev., Dec. 17,8 p.m. (ESPN) 
John Hancock ~ Texas Tech. (6-5)
==vs. Oklahoma (8-3) 
B Paso, Texas, Dec. 24, 2:30p.m. (CBS) 

Aloha Fresno S1a1e (8-3) <~loh;< ?Jowl vs. Colorado (7-3-1) Honolulu, Dec. 25, 3:30 p.m. (ABC)
~ 
Libe 
• Michigan S1a1e (6-5) UMrtY vs. Louisville (8-3) ~ Memphis, Tenn., Dec. 28, 8 p.m. (ESPN) 
---....:-...~---··-·--.. 

~ Wyoming (8-3) ~ vs. KanSas State (~2-1) 
Tucson, Ariz., Dec. 29, 8 p.m. (ESPN) 
Holiday HQliD~~~QWl Brigham Young (6-5) 
----vs. Ohio S1a1e (9-1-1) San Diego, Calif., Dec. 30, 8 p.m. (ESPN) 

vs. Utah (7-5) Freedom Howl Anaheim, Calif., Dec. 30, 9 p.m. (Raycom) 
Independence 
~ -E~~.~,~~~~~~~S~)
-~~~~----·-·-··-·--··-·--·-·-...-···--··-···········-·-·-·-·-·­


Peach Clemson (8-3) vs. Kentucky (6-5) Atlanta, Ga., Dec. 31, 6 p.m. (ESPN) 
. ------··----­
Gator Alabama (8-3-1) vs. North Carolina (10-2) 
Jacksonville, Fla., Dec. 31, 7 p.m. (TBS) 



Alamo 
lowa(6-5) 
vs. California (84) 
SanAntonio, Dec. 31, 9:30 p.m. (ESPN) 
Hall of Fame 
Michigan (7-4) vs. North carolina S1a1e (7-4) Tampa, Fla., Jan. 1,11 a.m. (ESPN) 
Citrus 
Penn S1a1e (9-2) vs. Tennesee(9-1·1) Orlando, Fla., Jan. 1, 1 p.m. (ABC) 

Cotton Bowl Cotton Classicri?\1 TexasA&M(10-1) ~ vs.Notre0arne(10-1) Dallas, Jan. 1, 4:30 p.m. (NBC) 
Carquest

t~~:~(~) 
~ Miami, Fla., Jan. 1, 1:30 p.m. (CBS) 
Fiesta ~it Miami (9-2) ~"Bowl vs. Arizona (9-2) Tempe, Ariz., Jan. 1, 1:00 p.m. (NBC) 
Rose

"f:llm , UClA(~)
f\J~ vs. Wisconsin(9-1-1)'tiMfl8' Pasadena, Calif., Jan. 1, 4:30 p.m. (ABC) 
.............1.ii.!.l.................................................................... 
Oran e Nebraska (11..0) vs. Florida S1a1e (11-1) Miami, Fla., Jan. 1, 8 p.m. (NBC) 
Su ar Florida (1 0-2) vs. W. Virginia (11..0) New Or1eans,La., Jan. 1, 8:30 p.m. (ABC) 
AP/Ed De Gasero 

YELLOW CAB HOLIDAY SPECIAL 
Group Rates From Notre Dame to O'Hare and Midway 
Co
Group to Four $1 00 Available 24 Hours Phone# 233--9333 

Bowl  tiona! title. But that is life and life goes on."  
continued from page 16  w~~iJo~:d~u~:~!~ ~~ie:e~~:v~~ ~  
college football championship  
and Nebraska to lose and the  game, which has been mulled  
pollsters to pick the Irish over  around by the NCAA in recent  
Florida State because of Notre  years.  
Dame's 31-24 victory earlier  "I always have been in favor  
this season.  of a two team playoff to be  
"In 1989 they gave Miami the  played the Saturday after the  
national title because they had  bowl games," said Holtz. "I'd  
beaten us head to head," he  like to see two teams, and I'd  
said. "We played the toughest  like to see them chosen by a  
schedule, beat the No.. 1 team  computer."  
in the bowl game, and the writ- Holtz offered little insight into  
ers said Miami won the nation- which team is worthy of what  
al championship. The writers  ranking, but hinted that the  
said they won it because they  Irish may be deserving of a  
beat us head to head late in the  higher mark.  
year."  "I can't say which team  
That logic would be reversed  would beat another team. I  
if Florida State claims the title  really don't know the answer,"  
this year.  he said. "But I know that  
"It is encouraging that some  strength of schedule doesn't get  
people have started to say it  a lot of attention in the coaches  
wouldn't make sense if Florida  bowl."  
State won the national title  This year's Cotton Bowl will  
over us," said Holtz. "But as of  mark the second bowl rematch  
right now it has been decided  for the Irish during the Holtz  
that Nebraska is No. 1 and  era. Notre Dame beat then No.  
Florida State is No. 2.  1 Colorado 21-6 in 1989 but fell  
"It is hard when a team that  to the top-ranked Buffaloes tO­ 
you beat is playing for the na­ 9 the following year.  

Burris named football MVP 
Observer Staff Report 

Jeff Burris drew some lofty praise over the weekend from his teammates and also all of college football, as he was named team MVP at the 74th annual University of Notre Dame Football Banquet and the Chevrolet Defensive Player of the Year. 
He was announced Friday as the team MVP after a vote by his teammates and was given the award by the Notre Dame Monogram Club. Saturday dur­ing the halftime of the SEC Championship game between Florida/Alabama, Burris was 11:amed by Chevrolet as the na­tion's top defender. 
The award from Chevrolet tops the pile of accolades that Burris has been receiving since the end of the season. The Rock Hill, S.C. native was also named a first team All-American by the Associated Press, Walter Camp Foundation, Football News, and Newspaper Enterprise Association. He was also named one of 15 semifinal­ists for Football News Defensive Player of the Year. 

Aaron Taylor won two awards at the banquet-the Lineman of the Year Award from the Moose Krause Chapter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame and the Nick Pietrosante Award which goes by vote of the play­ers to the player who best per­sonifies the courage, loyalty, dedication, and pride of the late All-American Irish fullback. Taylor is one of the three final­ists for the Outland Trophy 

Will Pick Up at Dorm 

Sign ups this week and during exams 
A'M'ENTION ALL FEMALE ACTORS, DANCERS, SINGERS 
AUDITIONS 
for the SMC musical play 
QUILTERS 
MONDAY, DEC. 6' TUESDAY, DEC. 7 7:00P.M. REGINA HALL, ROOM 16 SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
.. 
Please call 284-4640 for an appointment, and for further information. 
Bring song (with music for accompanist), Monologues provided. 
Rehearsals begin January 12, 1994. 

tor Communities ND 
-men and women undergradates -in small groups -for prayer, reflection, growth 
Registration forms at Campus Ministry Hesburgh Library and Badin Hall 
-Kick off Rally ­Saturday, January 15, 11 a.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Monday, December 6, 1993 The Observer • BASKETBALL pagel3 
Williams' second half outburst carries mistake-prone Irish 

By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
. Sifting through the rubble of Notre Dame's sloppy 63-53 win over San Diego Saturday, John MacLeod found a few re­deeming qualities. 
"We shot 36 percent and committed 20 turnovers and we were able to win the game," he said. "That's significant." 
More significant was Monty Williams' 22 second half points that helped the Irish overcome a five-point halftime deficit to defeat the pesky Toreros. Williams finished with a game­high 28. 
No other Irish player scored more than six points. 
"We need more distribution in our offense," MacLeod said. "We had a lot of people shoot­ing the ball today, but only one in double figures." 
Notre Dame opened a 7-0 lead in the first five minutes. Jon Ross hit a 3-pointer from the corner to open the scoring
' 

.~ 
and Billy Taylor added an 18­footer. After Williams hit a pair of free throws, the Irish led by a The ObserverT.J. Harris touchdown as the tentative 
Senior Monty Williams scored 28 points as the Irish upped their record Toreros tumbled. 
to 2-1 by beating San Diego on Saturday. "This is Notre Dame and that's a factor. The kids were excited, as they should be," San Diego coach Hank Egan said. "In the first part of the game there was some tension and our shots didn't go in, but I wasn't worried because during that stretch we stayed with it defen­sively." Eventually the Toreros' of­fense caught up with their de­fense. Sean Flannery, Brooks 

Arizona handles 'Big Country' in upset win 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX The No. 19 Wildcats beat No. 
OFFICE OF  TilE REGISTRAR  . .®  PIIONE 219/631-7043 fAX 219/631-5872  
UNIVERSITY  or- NoTRE DAME  
215 MAIN  BUilDING  
NoTRE DAME,  INDIANA  46556  
MEMORANDUM  
Date:  December 6, 1993  
From:  Office of the Registrar  
To:  All Notre Dame Students  

Subject: View your grades and class schedule over Gopher 
You no longer will have to go to an administrative office between 8:00 
a.m. and 5:00p.m. to get a copy of your grades, view your cumulative grade point average, or your schedule of classes! You can now access your newly DARTed Spring schedule and/or your NO academic history through the Gopher server at anytime in one of the computer clusters. Access the Gopher Menu and select University ofNotre Dame--Corporate Data. Then follow the instructions. If you do not know your AFS ID or password, see the person at the service desk in either the Hesburgh or DeBartolo Cluster. 
Additional student screens will be available in the future. We hope that you enjoy the convenience of this new student service. It represents a new and very innovative approach to providing up-to-date student data over the Gopher server. 
All of the faculty will have turned in final grades by 3:00p.m on Tuesday, December 21. We will process all the grades that night, and mail them to vour home address on Wednesday morning. December 22. Good luck on your finals and have a safe holiday season. 
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. 

Barnhard and Chris Kostoff each hit 3-pointers to pull San Diego back into the game. 
Doug Harris hit a pair of 3­pointers to give the Toreros a 17-14 lead with 8:16 remain­ing. San Diego wouldn't relin­quish that lead in the first half, taking a 30-25 lead to the lock­er room. 
MacLeod stormed off the court, looking like he was ready to rip into anyone who got in his way. 
"The walk up the ramp cooled me off," MacLeod said. "I get upset when we're repeat­ing our mistakes. We were dribbling unnecessarily and not showing the composure neces­sary to be a good team." 
They showed a little more composure in the second half. After the Toreros scored the first four points of the half, the Irish responded with an 11-2 run to tie the game at 36 with 
8:44 remaining. 
Despite some cold free throw shooting, Williams kept the Irish in front with 15 points in the final eight minutes. 
Harris and Joe Temple kept the Toreros in the game, com­bining for 13 points during that stretch, but Williams was too much. 
"We had a lot of people help­ing off on Williams and that helped them get some offensive rebounds," Egan said. "He re­ally turned it on when they needed it." 
Notre Dame did its best to give the game away at times, committing 20 turnovers, but San Diego committed 28 of its own. Notre Dame shot just 36 percent, but San Diego hit only 30 percent of its shots. 
Notre Dame didn't play well, but San Diego played worse. 
"I wish it wasn't like this," MacLeod said. ''I'd like to see a faster.pace and more fluid movement, but we showed to­day that our defense has im­proved enough to win this type of game." 
Whether or not it has im­proved enough to win the type of game that awaits on Tues­day-on the road against Indi­ana-remains to be seen. 
SAN DIEGO (53): Flannery 3­10 2-2 10, Barnhard 2-4 0-1 5, Grant 1-4 3-5 5, Harris 5-15 1­4 15, Temple 4-12 3-6 12, Bruso 1-3 0-0 2, Black 0-5 0-0 0, Kostoff 1-3 0-0 3, Fizdale 0-0 1-2 1. TOTALS: 17-56 10-20 53. 
NOTRE DAME (63): M. Williams 9-20 10-16 28, Jon Ross 2-7 1-2 6, Joe Ross 2-2 1­2 5, Hoover 1-6 2-2 5, Taylor 2­4 2-2 6, White 1-5 0-0 2, Gotsch 2-4 0-1 4, J. Williams 0-2 2-2 2, Hughes 1-2 0-2 2, Boyer 0-0 0­0 0, Miller 0-0 0-0 0, Keaney 0­0 0-0 0, Cozen 1-6 0-0 3. TO­TALS: 21-58 18-29 63. 
3-point goals (included in totals above): USD 9-24 (Harris 4-10, Flannery 2-6, Barnhard 1-2, Temple 1-5, Kostoff 1-1), ND 3-11 (Jon Ross 1-1, Cozen 1-3, Hoover 1-5). Total fouls (fouled out): USD 26 (Barnhard, Bruso, Temple). ND 21 (Jon Ross). Technical fouls: NO 1 (Jon Ross, hanging on the rim). Rebounds: USD 40 (Grant 10), ND 47 (M. Williams 11). Assists: USD 9 (Flannery 2, Grant 2, Harris 2, Kostoff 2). ND 12 (Hoover 4). Turnovers: USD 26 (Barnhard 5, Temple 5). ND 20 (White 7).. Halftime score: USD 30, NO 25. Atten­dance: 9,464. 
8 Oklahoma State 97-84 in the second game of the Dial Invitational, limiting massive center Bryant Reeves to 12 points. 
Joseph Blair and Kevin Flanagan kept Reeves out of the paint and helped center Ray Owes double-team the Ok­lahoma State pivot man when­ever he touched the ball. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Blair, a 6-foot-9 sophomore, finished with 14 points on 5­for-8 shooting, and also pulled down eight rebounds -two more than Reeves. 
Oklahoma State (4-1) had few opportunities to get Reeves the ball in the first half. Arizona (3­
0) scored the first eight points and ran out to a 15-4 lead with 14:31left in the first half. 

LOYOlA 


UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 

The Graduate offers an evening
School ofBusiness MBA 
----·­Profession~! e_ducation for positions of leadersh1p m the Jesuit tradition of excellence. 
Candidates may begin program in any quarter. 
·-·--··------­
For information call312-915-6120 or complete coupon below. ----------· ------­
Water Tower Campus Loyola is an 820 North Michigan Avenue equal opportunity Chicago, Illinois 60611 
employer/educator. 

Mail To: Loyola University Chicago UN[J Graduate Business School 820 N. Michigan Ave. • Chicago, IL 60611 
Name 

Telephone No. Mailing Address 
City State Zip 
! 
.. 

I 
I 
1 I 


The Notre Dame Varsity Shop 
• JACC • 
r1Simas 
Thursday, December 9rh -Sunday December 19th 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the Field House Boxing Room Enter at Gate #3 
SALES ON SELECTED HIGH QUALITY MERCHANDISE 
!!Kerry Chris/mas andJfappy Xew Year 
from the Notre Dame Varsity Shop 

.---,-~---------~------~ ----~ 
page 14 
Irish icers get production from frosh against UIC 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team rebounded nicely after losing two consecutive one-goal games to take three out of four points this weekend from the University of Illinois-Chicago. 
On Friday night, the Irish held on to defeat the Flames in Chicago by a score of 6-4. The Irish scored the first four goals of the game and held ofT a UIC rally to even their record at 6-6­1 (4-4-1 in the league). 
Playing at home for the first time in nine games on Saturday, the Irish had to settle for a 2-2 tie. Once again, they jumped out to an early 2-0 lead. However, UIC came back to score twice and hold the Irish scoreless for the rest of the game. 
"Obviously, we wanted four (points), especially because we felt we should have," said goalie Brent Lothrop, who earned the victory on Friday. "But three is still successful in this league." 
The Irish continued to receive balanced scoring on Friday night, as six different players chipped in a goal. Overall, ten skaters scored at least one point. 
Sophomore Jay Matushak's first goal of the season was the crucial goal. The Flames had cut the once-four goal lead down to a one-goal margin. Matushak, though, gave the Irish a little bit of breathing room at the 7:19 mark. 
Assisted by Brett Bruiniks and Brent Lamppa, Matushak beat UIC goalie Paul Spencer to put the Irish ahead S-3. Ten min­utes later, Lamppa added an in­surance goal on a power play. Bruiniks earned his third assist of the night on the goal. 
Those two goals were crucial to hold off the hard-working Flames, who never quit. In the first period, freshmen Sean McAllister and Bryan Welch each scored their first collegiate goal to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
Notre Dame continued to carry play early in the second period, as they increased their lead to 4-0. Terry Lorenz, who has really picked up his produc­tion of late, scored three min­utes into the period. Troy Cusey followed with a short­handed efTort. 
UIC came right back, as they rattled off three unanswered goals to end the period. The first two came off of a power play. 
Derek Knorr then cut the lead to one with less than thirty seconds remaining in the pe­riod. Except for a late, mean­ingless goal, that would be all the scoring for the night, as Lothrop came up with 12 third period saves. 
"I waited for my opportunity," said Lothrop. "Things worked out well. It's good to reinforce my earlier performances and to have the confidence of the guys." 
Jamie Ling saw some posi­tives from Friday as well. "Having everyone scoring now is great. We went through a dry spell, but now we're bal­anced. It was great to be sent home on a winning note." 
However, Saturday night did not go that well for the Irish. Nonetheless, they earned a 

The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Notre Dame center Jamie Ling ·scored his fifth goal of the season as the Irish took three points from UIC. 
point at home. Ling opened the game with his fifth goal of the year at the 
5:47 mark. He took a rebound from a Brian McCarthy shot and found the open net. Tim Harberts assisted as well. 
That trio combined for the Irish's second goal of the night. This time, Harberts beat Jeff Featherstone to give his team a 2-0 lead. That would be their last goal of the evening. 
UIC repeated their comeback performance, this time tying the Irish up at two. Mike Peron scored his 11th goal of the sea­son late in the second to slice the lead to one. 
Early in the third, the Flames' Mark Zdan beat netminder Wade Salzman to tie the game. Then, the defenses took over, as only 16 shots were attempted in the period. The goalies stepped up their play as well, especially Salzman, who stopped nine shots. 

"Salzie really played well," noted Ling. "He made some huge saves for us, especially on breakaways. All three (goalies) are playing great." 
Neither team got much start­ed in the overtime period. Five shots were attempted, but Salzman and Featherstone stopped each one. The Irish had their chances, but failed to convert. 
Coach Ric Schafer had to be satisfied with his team's play. Ten different skaters scored goals this weekend, while two back-up goalies played strong games. Although the team Jet down a bit on both nights, they showed enough character to hang on and get three points. 
"All the guys contributed," said Lothrop. "It was a total team effort going on out there." 
The Irish must continue their strong play, as they face Lake Superior State at home on Fri­day night. 
"We're playing great. Hopefully, we'll keep it going this weekend," said Ling. 



Monday, December 6, 1993 The Observer· TODAY page 15 

~~r-:· .::: ,,, j:~ 
•,•,·.·.·.:· ·•.•,•,•,•:·:··==···=· 
JAY HOSLER 

1 f'RA'/ I'M DOING TilE RI6HT 
THINE, I Mli5T ACT Q!JICXL'/ AN'/ HiNT OF HESITATION AND MY ~RE:ATESrSHAME 
WILL BE I<NOWN. 
BILL WATTERSON 
DARN \IGERS. 'IOU CAN Etl'li>-\N. 1\-\E ?.\JLE~ TO 'Ei'll, 13\JT '(0\.J CA~'\ S\J?I'I<£§ 11-\£.\R 'SUR~\'SE \)001>\CE 
\1'\~T\l'KI. 
\~* 
.. ~vL 
~ ~ 

~ '"~ 
','~1''~ 
DAVE KELLETT 
No-n11N6 
-"BEATS~to::. ... 

30 Commun1ons 49Nope 57 Memorable and bar 
52 "The B1g -," actor Conned 58 Gen. Robert 
Marx Brothers 32 Hag 
m1tzvahs film 59 Stiff hair 54 Bncklayer

33 Done for 60 Breaks bread 
55 Preserve, 10 a
35 Closet secrets 61 Stuart of the 37 She gets what way C.S.A. 
56 One of a senes 64 Fate
she wants, 1n song 39 Answenng­machme reds. Get answers to any three clues 41 Papal bull, e.g. 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
42 TV feature 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
47 Pot of a kind 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

.. 

Jurassic parking 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Auditions For SMC Play "Quitters" will be held for all female actresses. dancers and singers on Monday, Dec. 6, and Tuesday, Dec. 7 at 7:00pm in Room 16, Regina Hall, Saint Mary's College. Bring sheet music for the accompanist. Monologues provided. Please call 284­4640 for an appointment and further information. 

• 
"Our Lady And Abortion" will be the title of a pre­sentation by Father O'Connor at the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Montgomery theater, room 107 LaFortune. 

• 
Saint Mary's Christmas Bazaar to be held in Le Mans Hall from today through Friday Dec. 10. 

• 
The Country Harvester will be having a Christmas Open House this week, Monday through Saturday. 10 


a.m. -5 p.m., located in the lower level of LaFortune Student Center. Call631-6714 for more information. 
• 
The Snite Museum Of Art, together with the de­partments of English and Art, Art History and Design is sponsoring a free lecture, "Virtue and Virtuosity: The Perils of Demonstration," today, at 4:15p.m. at the Suite. Barbara Stafford, professor of art history at the University of Chicago and president of the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies. 

• 
Assistant Rector Applications For 1994·1995 are now available in the Office of Student Affairs, room 315 Main Building through Jan. 28. 1994. 



-
Notre Dame 
Turkey Broccoli Bake Mostaccioli Shrimp Egg Rolls 
Saint Mary's 
Call284-4500 for menu .information 

SPELUNKER 
~1s 
MUL'TI-f'IJRPoSt. 
R A'{ Gi.JN WILL INSTANTL'I FA1T£N You ALL UP AND 
MV HOME IIJORL P 
WILL HAVE rnt. 
Bl\ca-.J IT 50 
DE5PCRATEL'{ NEE:Ds. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
You woN'T G£T 
AWA'/ wrrn nos,Yo<J PORC.tNE PIRATE 



{NME.R, WA~I-IiN6 AwA~ \KE. S1N'S fR.o('l) 

CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 34 R1ver 1sles 61 O'Casey's "­36 Part of RR 
and the 1 Play the lead 
Paycock"38 Beat 1tt5011 or milk 62 Bearlike40 S1lent-mov1e 

measure marsup1al
police force 

tO He wrote "The 63Symbol of43 Slaved 1n theCounterfeiters" approvalgalley14 "Othello" heavy 
65 "--go bragh"
44 V1s1on opener

15 Beneath, in 
66 Sea eagles Bonn 67 Librettist
45 L1ke an 16 Portentous arthropod 1n a 
Harbach March day carpet 68 Roulette 17 Irritated state 46 Remnant of the transact1ons 18 Dry-cl1mate 
past 69 Put back to zero bnck structure 48 L1ke f1rewood 70 Republican
19 Comply w1th 50 French elephant20 Pol1ce Interro­creator
connectors

gation strategy 
51 Reverberations

23 S Korean G.l. 
1n Spa1n24 R1ver of Hesse 

DOWN
53 Walton or Donaldson 25 Rather's 

network 1 Bro's sib 28 Clairvoyant 55 Pol1ce-mov1e 2 Sp1ce 3t Nosh scnpt direction 3 Exchange 
prem1um 4 Copter spmner 5 Charlatamsm 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Put an end to 7 Restmg upon a Has1d1c sp1ntual leader 
9 Parts of rad1als 4~+--FB 10Gewgaws 
~~~~~-11 Gram starter 
~ 12 Far from 
shallow 
13ld-­
21 Don'ts partner 
-7+,:..+.::-+:::-1 22 Thickheaded -=+=+::::+.:-i 25 Roman Punic 
~~lliJI. wars statesman 

~ 26 Patna IS liS cap1tal R-=+~:-+::±;.fl!l!l8-=+:':+.':~+-+=+=-l 27 Cordwood measure -=+=+=-+''"=i 29 Down or Middle follower 
·­
SPORTS 
page 16 

Irish destined for Cotton Bowl again 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Lou Holtz and the Notre Dame football team officially accepted an invitation to play in the Cotton Bowl yesterday, somewhat reluctantly heading back to Dallas and a rematch with Texas A&M. 
"Maybe we would have liked to go to a different bowl, but Notre Dame went into the bowl business to increase its stand­ing in the polls." said Holtz. "We have always wanted to play the highest ranked team and we are accomplishing that by playing Texas A&M. 
"I don't think too many peo­ple want to go to Dallas and play Texas A&M," said Holtz. "They are a fine football team." 
Holtz admitted that the 

Cotton Bowl bid is somewhat of a consolation prize. Two weeks ago the Irish appeared to be the main piece in national title game, but a 41-39 loss to Boston College dropped the Irish to the bottom of the na­tional championship pile. 
"The players would have liked to have gone to a different bowl," a disappointed Holtz said. "I am down, but I will be al.right. I am down because I am concerned (about Texas A&M)." 
Last season the Irish handed the then third-ranked and un­beaten Aggies a 28-3 beating. This season the seventh-ranked Aggies carry a 10-1 record, their lone loss a 44-14 setback against Oklahoma in Norman. 
The Irish looked to be headed to the Sugar Bowl against No. 
Irish Volleyball thrashes Nebraska; Bound for Sweet 16 
Team effort propels Irish over Huskers 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Spons Editor 
It worked out even better than they had hoped. 
Not only did the No. 17 Notre Dame volleyball team achieve its goal of hosting an NCAA tour­nament game. but it rode the emotion to a berth in the Sweet 16 with a dominating 15-11, 15-10, 15-8 vietorv over No. 8 Nebraska. 
The Irish advanced to the regional finals for the first time in their history, using a varied offensive attack to completely confound an apa­thetic Cornhusker squad. 
"I was concerned coming in, not so much with Notre Dame but rather with our own team," commented Husker coach Terry Pettit, who guided his team to a 25-6 record. "There comes a point where a team has to take it to the next level. and I don't think we did that in practice." 
While the Huskers came out lethargic, the Irish were both focused and excited, diving for lose balls, patiently running their offense, and hitting the ball through the Husker defense. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a quick 9-1 lead in game one, as all six Irish players on the court scored points. The Notre Dame onslaught was facilitated by the serving of senior Janelle Kar­lan and freshman Jenny Birkner, who were able to disrupt the Nebraska passing. 
"Our servers did a great job of hitting the zones we wanted while still serving tough," ex­

-
plained Irish head coach Debbie Brown, who returned to the sidelines for the first time since giving birth to her son Connor. 
While the Irish defense was able to contain Nebraska star Allison Weston, the Huskers had no such luck with Notre Dame's Christy Peters, who hit a cross-court kill, an ace, and finally a kill from the backcourt to push the Irish lead to 13-7. Peters finished with 13 kills and 15 digs. 
Weston finally got untracked to allow her team to close to 14-11, but an ace by Karl an closed out the game. 
Notre Dame continued its pressure in jumping out to a 4-0 lead in the second game behind two kills by Peters and a block by senior Julie Harris, one of her four in the match. 
At this point, Nebraska made what would turn out to be its one sustained run of the match. Behind freshman middle blocker Jen McFadden, who finished with nine kills and seven total blocks, the Huskers took a 10-8 lead, forcing Brown to call timeout. 
"I felt like we weren't doing some of the fun-
see VOLEYBALL I pagelO 
To the Wire David Nathe wins final leg of 400-relay as Irish repeat in National Catholic swim meet 
see page 11 10 Florida but No. 3 West Vir­ginia declined a bid from the Cotton Bowl to play the Gators. They· claimed monetary reasons as the Sugar Bowls' 4.15 mil­lion payoff is larger than Cotton Bowl's 3 million offer. 
"West Virginia has every right to turn down the bid," said Holtz. "If they stated monetary reasons then that is what I believe." 
It was implied by some mem­bers of the media that the Mountaneers were shying away from the Aggies because a tough game would nullify any claim they had to the national title should Florida State beat Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. 
Holtz also addressed Notre Dame's slim title hopes, which will need both West Virginia 
see BOWL I page 12 


·~ 


The Observer/Jake Peters Senior co-captain Julie Harris and the No. 17 Irish volleyball team spiked Nebraska to move on to the Regional Finals in the NCAAs. 
Inside SPORTS 

Williams as usual Monty Williams carried the Notre Dame basket­ball team over San Diego on Saturday 
see page 13 looks to be in a favorable posi­tion for hosting the Mideast Hegional Finals, part of the 'Sweet 16' of the NCAAs. 
NCMs might  
return to ND  
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Editor  
The goal from the beginning was to host a match in the NCAA tournament. The No. 17 Notre Dame vol­leyball may now get more than it dared hope for, as the squad  J 1 \  

"It definitely helps to be at home, in a comfortable envi-_ ronment, especially with the players in the midst of studying for finals," stated Irish head coaeh Debbie Brown. "We have enough stress as it is without adding the difficulty of playing on the road." · 
After beating Nebraska yes­terday at the J.A.C.C. to ad­vance to the regionals, the Irish had expected to take their game on the road. Instead, a number of circumstances point to the tournament coming back to Notre Dame in the upcoming weekend. 
Top seed UC-Santa Barbara, heavily favored to beat Min­nesota late yesterday, would normally get first choice at hosting the regionals. How­ever, they are a transplant from the Western region, brought in because of their high national ranking, and un­likely to host what is meant to be a Mideast regional. 
Penn State, having advanced on Saturday, has not put in a bid to host due to scheduling conflicts. That leaves only Col­orado and Notre Dame. 
The Buffaloes have the high­er seed, but are unwilling to host the tournament on consec­utive days, which connicts with past NCAA policy. Notre Dame is willing to host on any days of the weekend. 
A decision from the NCAA tournament is pending Monday night. 
Three for Four Goalie Brent Lothrop posted a victory as the hockey team had a win and a tie against UIC 
see page 14 







