
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 117 TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Handbook offers teacher evaluations to students 
By MARA DIVIS the semester. News Writer Teaching faculty will be given the option of whether they want 
The Guide, a student gov­to participate in the guide, as ernment invention, will serve as the committee is not aiming to a handbook to inform students steer students away from of course requirements and certain classes, only to improve professors, according to project professors' communication and coordinators Heather Arnold teaching skills, Arnold said. and Susan Petrovic. "We're not trying to persecute 
Written by students them­teachers in any way," she said. selves, the Guide is a catalog of "It's entirely the professors' evaluative information for stu­choice whether they would like dents, and will feature a rating to participate or not." system on professors and their The Guide will be a com­teaching styles and class re­pletely student-run publication, quirements, said Arnold, stu­Petrovic said. dent government intellectual "This is not the administra­life chairperson. tion asking the students to 
The committee will issue evaluate the faculty," she said. evaluations to participating fac­"The point is to have students ulty members, who will have be more informed when select­

The Observer/ Brian McDonough students evaluate them, similar ing classes." 
Spring fever 
to the way the administration According to both Petrovic 

Taking advantage of the warm weather and sunshine, Professor Yuko Nakahama's Japanese class studies 
evaluates faculty at the end of 
see GUIDE I page 4 
outside on the steps in front of O'Shaugnessy Hall. 

Minorities agree that self-identity is essential 

By ALICIA REALE agreed, refuting the predomi­be achieved due to different is­group of blacks, we have to 


students

Associate News Editor nant theory of the American sues. "We can't race socializa­interpret." melting pot which purports the tion," he said. This feeling can cross bound­
It is important that minorities creation of a homogeneous race It is important to bind to­aries and everyone can learn identify with their culture and from social interrelation. gether to learn more about from cultural gifts. such as rap arrested one another before they can "The male white elitist each other, said Chandra John­music. "Collective effervescence successfully bridge the racial founders ran into problems son, an African-American 39 is shared and goes out to the gap and give to others. agreed with African-Americans. In year-old freshman who lives in larger community," explained panelists at a cultural diversity reality mixing can't work," he Fischer-O'Hare residences. She Chandra Johnson. 
Forty people, including 2
forum in Howard Hall last said. "They did not understand has created a group called It is important to stick to­Notre Dame and Saint MIU'y'night. the creativity of God." "Just a Sister Away" to facili­gether and "keep culture alive," 
students. were arrested aM
African-Americans tend to Now there is the salad bowl tate discussion about being said Hong Ly, a Chinese Howard cited by S.U~D.S. (Stop Under­stay together socially because theory in which the lettuce and African-American women. "It Hall sophomore. "We must age Drinking and Sales} for un­race is the first thing that peo­radishes are flavorful together is necessary to build communi­know culture and identity first ·derage drinking. early Saturday ple can identify with and form but also taste good alone, ac­cation in this environment," she before we can find a meeting mornirig at a party at 19177bonds over when coming to cording to Marlowe. said. "Power and unity are place." 
Cleveland Road. 

Notre Dame, explained Kenya "There is a misconception formed to be later dispersed." Mending, healing and grow­
Notre Dame sophomore
Johnson, an African-American that we are separate because "I love being around black ing can be done among mi­Brian Scblemarr, who rents thePasquerilla East Hall junior. we don't want to be with you. folks, we have a different lan­norities, according to Chandra house, was cited for underage"Most African-Americans People who have historically guage, a different attitude for Johnson. 
·drinking, a misdemeanor. As
branch out later but identity is been invisible need to come to­who we are, how we communi­"You need to know yourself the "responsible party," he alsuthe thing you can identify with gether to gain support." cate and love each other. This before you can give to others. 
may be cited for having a partright away," she said. There is an ideal of people language is built out of love and We don't support exclusionary without a perrnlt, contributinAthletic counselor Demetrius from different races getting respect for each other. If to the delinquency of minors or
Marlowe, an African-American, along, which sometimes cannot someone white is with me and a see MINORITIES I page 4 
maintaining a common nuisance, said Sergeant
Speaker discusses women 

Charlie Feirrell of the Saint Joseph County Police. "Neighbors had complained

in law: progress still needed 
and a traffic accident occurred nearby which involved some~
By BILL ALBERTINI years after Notre Dame law 
one who had been at the 
News Writer school began admitting women, party," said FeirrelL "Alcohol"that all accredited law schools was a factor inthis crash." 
Though women have made in this country were open to "We were just trying to break 
progress in law, they still have qualified applicants regardless up the party," he said. 
a long way to go, said the of gender," according to 
Students receiving citatiot1s 
Honorable Shirley Abrahamson Abrahamson. 
were: 

at the 25th anniversary cele­In addressing the women at CarrollHall sophomore .John 
bration of women in the Notre the law school, Abrahamson 
McPik~;.. · · Dame law school yesterday. said they "may be expecting 
Dillon Hall sophom9te
Abrahamson, a justice on the continued unopposed progress Zachary Budzichowski; ·· Wisconsin Supreme Court pre­in the job market, but [they] 
Farley Hall sophom9re
sented the keynote address of may also wonder, 'Is there the Hillary Nystrom; · 
the celebration, entitled "A proverbial glass ceiling, and Fisher Hall junior. Miguel
Courtroom of One's Own: The can it be cracked?"' 
Perez;New Role of Women in the Le­She answered by saying that 

Planner Hall sophomores
gal System." "Women have firmly estab­Brian Deeley, Eric Nunes, Sean Abrahamson opened the lished themselves in all career O'Brien, and Matshame Riley.
speech with a brief note about paths of the field of law. This 
Grace Hall sophomores
Graciela Olivarez, the first does not mean, however, that Stephen Crowley, Thomas woman to enter and graduate our struggles are over." 
Doohan, James Ha.ss, Michael from the University of Notre Abrahamson added that while Hahn, Michael Kliber, William 
Dame law school. women compromise 20 percent Nurthen, and Michael Shields; She then gave a history of of the legal profession, only 10 Holy Cross Hall sophomores women in law. In 1869, ac­percent of the judiciary in the Meredith Binder and Julie Tay­
cording to Abrahamson, Iowa U.S. is female. 
lor;became the first state to admit "Perhaps," she said, "the 

Keenan Hall sophomores 
a woman to the bar. In the scarcity of women on the bench 
Wilfred Freve and Stephen
same year, the Illinois Supreme also explains why we are ex­Hryriewicz:Court and U.S. Supreme Court pected to behave not as indi­Knott Hall sophomores ,Amyrefused a woman's right to join viduals, but in stereotypical Borbely and Melissa Hurd; 
the bar because, "God designed feminine ways." the sexes to occupy different She compared the judiciary to 
Shirley Abrahamson, a justice on the Wisconsin Supreme Co~Jrt, 

spheres of action," which "newly integrated male clubs."
speaks at the Notre Dame Law School on women's role in the legal 

therefore left women out from She then stated that "we must 
system. Her speech commemorated the 25th anniversary of women 

practicing law, Abrahamson recognize that obstacles to
law students admitted to the Law School. 

said. It was not until 1972, five see LAW I page 4 
+@·... <<~··· . 






--------~--~---------~ 
f 


Join the 

~ 

'Justice Leagu_e_'_ 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Spring has finally arrived. 
South Bend has had four days of sunshine (we'll have to see if that's some sort of a record), Bookstore Basketball XXII 

has started (my girlfriend Richard Riley 
was lucky enough to have Business Manager 
on of the Elvises throw Emeritus 
some of his chest hair to_______ her), and Notre Dame students have been taking to the basketball courts in a mass exodus after being subjected to over four months of forced hibernation. At the same time, the final four teams are making their ways to New Orleans and March Madness has reached its peak. Students have spent the last two weeks cheering for their second-favorite teams and seeing the upsets and great plays for which tournament time is famous. However, the Notre Dame men's basketball players have seen their roles in March Madness reduced to spectators (editor's note: among Notre Dame's men's basketball players, only Monty Williams has ever been anything other than a spectator during the NCAA tournament) 
and have had their playing experiences reduced to those on the various courts around campus. 
The 1992-'93 season was a frustrating one. but it did provide several prospects of great success to come in the next few seasons. The return of Williams provided leadership and stellar play on the court, even though he had not played for the Irish for the two previous seasons. 
The arrival of Ryan Hoover delighted NO fans as they saw that the team possesses a highly talented player who will only get better with more experience and fans look to freshman Keith Kurowski to provide much needed depth at the guard position. 
But the player who will be the catalyst for Notre Dame in the future is one who is still developing, a player who has shown signs o greatness and whose work ethic will make him one of the premier Irish hoopsters in years to come. Yes, that's right, I'm talking about Lamarr Justice. 
Not only does the 6-2 sophomore possess the greatest name in college basketball (say it with me: "Lamarr Justice"-can't you just feel the power and the smoothness of the player in the name?), but his play on the court this year showed the Irish faithful that they have a player who has the potential to come on strong in the next two years to be a highly skilled guard in the Notre Dame attack, just as Elmer Bennett was in the 1991 and '92 seasons. 
So right now, to avoid the rush next season, I am signing myself up as the charter member o the Notre Dame chapter of the "Justice League," the Lamarr Justice fan club. If you, too see the greatness about to emerge, send in your request to join the Justice League to me, care of The Observer, and get in on the ground floor of the fan club that will cheer on number 24 and the rest of the Irish in their triumphant campaign next season. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Emily Hage Bevin Kovalik  Viewpoint Don Modica  
Production Mike Scrudato Kira Hutchinson  Accent Don Modica  
Sports Brian Kubicki  Graphics Chris Mullins  
Business John Connorton Liz Heinrich  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
=.·lil1l!.:illl·.!:IJi·:=:.lililii.'::.::.!.i.:i. i:ml FORECAST 

Mostly sunny and mild Tuesday with highs in the mid 60s . 
. Cloudy and cooler Wednesday with a 40 percent chance of 
1rain. High of 50. 
I TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 34 13 A11anta 75 48 Bogota 66 43 Cairo 72 50 Chicago 44 36 Cleveland 44 34 I Dallas 74 57 OetroH 45 34 .Indianapolis 56 40 1Jerusalem 64 46 ILondon 50 43ILos Angeles 62 50 Madrid 70 43!Minneapolis 42 32
IMoscow 

39 32 Nashville 53 47 51 38
• • • • •• • INew York 
Paris 52 32 Philadelphia 52 40 COLD WARM STATIONARY Rome 54 32 SeaHie 54 35
Pressure 
South Bend 6737 Tokyo 55 45
L a f5:SJ raJ 0 ,. fxxxi 81l {) 

Washington, D.C. 55 43 

T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 
•••..: .•.. .·'.:=.=· ·.. ,l: .i.l .+ ~: jl ::l ::: ) i:. ~:. :: :·· :> ·•· ·=· ==· ;j .=· } J 
. . ·. ·.· .·. ·.· .·. ·: .· :: :'·} :: 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Universitv faculty members strike 
• CINCINNATI -Unionized faculty members went on strike Monday at the University of Cincinnati at the start of the spring semester. Administrators of the 35,000­student state university said its representatives found that more than 60 percent of the classes were being taught. Picket lines also were crossed by members of other unions on the campus, Cincinnati's largest employer with 19,000 workers. But the striking American Association of University Professors said students reported that fewer than half the classes were being taught. Both sides reported that student attendance was light. The union represents 1,916 full-time faculty members at the main and branch campuses, and the medical and law schools, but fewer than 800 of them actually belong to the union. Their average annual salary is $51,000. 
Observer Spacecraft to study Mars 
• PASADENA, Calif.-The Mars Observer spacecraft will start studying the Red Planet three weeks earlier than planned because extra fuel will let it descend to proper orbit more quickly, NASA said Monday. The Nov. 22 start will let the Mars Observer get one complete look at all of the planet before the sun moves between Mars and Earth from Dec. 20 to Jan. 3, temporarily preventing controllers from radioing commands to the spacecraft. The spacecraft is scheduled to study Mars for at least one Martian year, or 687 Earth days, producing photographs and topographic maps of unprecedented detail. It also will search for indirect evidence that life may have once existed on Mars. 
Judge issues rulings in Tyson lawsuit 
• INDIANAPOLIS -A federal judge .. has issued the first set of ru motions in a civil lawsuit against Mike Tyson by the woman he convicted of raping. U.S. District J Larry McKinney granted Desir Washington's request to halt attor taking pretrial testimony from witnesses· ..·. until Tyson's criminal case is resolved. The Indiana Court of Appeals is expected to issue a ruling soon on the former heavyweight boxing champion's appeal of his conviction. The judge granted a portion of the 19-year-old woman's request to restrict public access to specific documents. He said court records such as medical records, communications with psychiatrists or social workers and personal diaries could be held confidential. 

WORLD 

Church, gays battle in Caribbean 
• SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -The cancellation of a Caribbean gay pageant in St. Maarten is the latest setback for gays and lesbians in a region long hailed as a playground for the passionate and the uninhibited. Militant church leaders say the issue is decency and morals. Gay leaders call it a battle over human rights. St. Maarten's government canceled Saturday's scheduled show, featuring several male impersonators, after Anglican, Methodist and Roman Catholic leaders threatened to "go to any lengths" to stop the show from going on. Clergy went to their pulpits to fan the dispute, listing homosexuality as one of "the ills of society." 

OF INTEREST 
• Seniors and others interested in year long and summer opportunities, Ken Kinley of the Christian Ap­palachian Program will be on campus Wednesday. He will be in the Library Concourse from 10 a.m. to noon, and then at the Center for Social Concerns from 2 to 5 
p.m.. 

• The Entrepreneur Club will have an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 023 Hayes-Healy. Those interested in the E-club are encouraged to attend and talk to old members about next year's events. For more information call Tim at x1061. 
• 
Carol McCollester of the Eucharistic Missionaries Volunteers Program will be on campus to recruit and in­form seniors about volunteering after graduation. Sum­mer opportunities are available as well. She will be here Wednesday, April 1 and 2, from 10 a.m. to noon in the Library Concourse and from 2 to 4 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Effective Resume Writing Workshop will discuss how to write a powerful resume which accurately depicts your strengths and your qualifications. The importance of focusing your resume will be demonstrated tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1867: U.S. Secretary of State William Seward reached YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 29 
agreement with Russia to purchase the territory of Alaska for $7.2 million dollars. 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX • In 1870: The 15th Amendment to the Constitution, giving 
246,427,940 +1.41 to 248.48 

black men the right to vote, was declared in effect. 
S&P COMPOSITE •In 1973: Ellsworth Bunker resigned as U.S. ambassador to

+2.99 to 450.77 

South Vietnam, and was succeeded by Graham Martin.
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS • In 1981: President Reagan was seriously wounded in an

-15.12 to 3,455.10

UNCHANGED 
attempt on his life by John Hinckley Jr. 
628 


• In 1991: Patricia Bowman, a resident of Jupiter, Fla., told
GOLD 

authorities she had been raped hours earlier by William Kennedy Smith at the family's Palm Beach estate. (Smith was 
-$1.00 to $332.30 /oz 
SILVER 

tried and acquitted.) 
-$0.028 to $3.646/oz 

Tuesday, March 30, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Speaker says no gays in military 

By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Homosexuals should not be in the military, according to Judith Reisman, director of the Institute for Media Education in Arlington, Va. 
In her lecture, "Homosexuals in the Military: The Scientific Facts," Reisman addressed the issue of homosexuality in the military to a group comprised primarily of Notre Dame's ROTC students. 
"It is both unfair to homosex­uals because they absolutely need therapy and they deserve it," she said. "Early trauma needs to be addressed. " 
According to Reisman, ho­mosexuality is a significant concern because there has been a change in the notion of homosexuality and it is vital to be aware of homosexuals be­cause the military is a defense mechanism. 
"You must have facts. You must be knowledgeable on this issue," she said. 
Some researchers believe 10 percent of the population is homosexual, she added. Ac­cording to Reisman the main­stream homosexual magazine, Advocate, has about 70,000 readers. 
"There is no reason why 10 percent of the people should be represented by 70,000 readers, "said Reisman. 
"The only way to change laws in the US was to be_able to walk into a judicial situation and say science has proven something else, " Reisman said. "We have science with an agenda, a sex­ual agenda." 
According to Reisman one cannot say homosexuality is in­born. "There is no data to sustain the premise that people are born homosexual in any way, shape, or form," said Reisman. 
"There must be the same percentage of homosexuals born cross-culturally to be a pattern of behavior. If not, then it is an environmental depen­dence." 
In the military framework, the young military population is extremely susceptible to seduc­tion, according to Reisman. The younger generation has a propensity for sex, she added. 
"There is an acceptance among homosexual groups that 



By LYNN BAUWENS 


Class Dates March 30, April 1, 6, 13 6:00-9:00 pm Rolfs Aquatic Center Plus a 1 day excursion 
Register at RecSports 


$15.00 entry fee :all Recsports for more info 631-6100 

children are viable sexual ob­jects," she said. She said that there has been consistent reit­eration by certain groups to end the age of consent which would make it legal for adults to copulate with children. 
"When you're talking about someone who is homosexual, you're talking about someone who is in pain," said Reisman. According to Reisman there are three primary health hazards in the gay community: AIDS, substance abuse, and gay bashing. 
"In the military, you cannot have a leader of the same sex who is attracted to you; there is a tremendous capacity for abuse," she said. "For exam­ple, they might derive pleasure from making you do 1,000 push ups and get a kick out of it," she added. 
"The fact is that science is unfortunately a political issue." 
Reisman received her Ph.D in Communications and has worked for twenty years on the subject of human sexuality. She 
The Observer/ Michelle DiRe 
has recently worked for the 
Judith Reisman, director of the Institute for Media Education in 
Pentagon and the U.S. De­
Arlington Va., lectures yesterday on "Homosexuals in the Military: 
partment of Education. 
The Scientific Facts," in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
C.A.R.E. stresses importance of support 
News Writer 
The most important thing to do for a friend who has been sexually assaulted is not to take control away from the victim, according to a panel of the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) mem­bers. 
Notre Dame students Michele Cummings, Sheila Buckman, and Tyler Moore of C.A.R.E. spoke about the importance of support for the victim at a panel held at Saint Mary's as part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. 
They encouraged friends of 





CLASS OF 1994 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Apply now for positions 
on the 1994 Senior Formal Committee 
Applications are available at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor LaFortune) or Haggar Center 
Questions: Call Stacy Jones at 634~4858 or Angie Fitzgibbon at 284~5121 


Applications due April 6 
victims to be there for support, but not to ask questions, place blame, or encourage legal ac­tion. "Let the victim know that you believe him or her," said Buckman. 
They said that a stigma is still attached to rape and its victims. When a friend confides in an­other about being assaulted, it is important not to tell anyone else without her approval. 
The panel recommends en­couraging the victim to seek medical attention, especially if the rape occurred within 48 hours, since it may result in a sexually transmitted disease, internal injuries, or pregnancy. 
C.A.R.E. emphasized that rape is not about sex, but about violence and control. Cummings said that it is, "an unforgettable physical and psychological violation of one's whole being." 
The panel encourages friends of victims to seek help through counseling offices or the Sex Offense Services (SOS). Because being the friend of a rape or sexual assault victim can be a "heavy weight to carry," they recommended discussing feel­ings of anger, frustration, and fear. 
For male friends of female victims, Moore said to avoid promises of revenge and to be sensitive to the victim's feelings of violation. 
Statistics show that 1 in 6 women on college campuses have been sexually assaulted. Many of these assaults occur on campuses after dances, espe­cially when alcohol is involved. However, "Alcohol is not an ex­cuse for rape," said Buckman. 
C.A.R.E. was founded 6 years ago by students and adminis­trators of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, and IUSB. Their main focus is prevention of sexual assault through awareness and advocacy pro­grams for victims. 
The activities of the week are intended to raise awareness of the occurrence of assault on campus and in the community. If you or someone you know has been victimized by rape, you may call the Sex Offense Services (SOS) of Madison Cen­ter at 289-HELP to speak with a trained counselor. 
This evening C.A.R.E. will present a Peer Harassment Panel at 7 p.m. in Siegfried Hall's Chapel Lounge. 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 5:00p.m ... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 


-~­

page4 The Observer Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
Compromise for gays proposed 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. Sam Nunn suggested a com­promise or. homosexuals in the military Monday: Making per­manent the interim policy of simply not asking recruits about sexual orientation. 
That policy, put in place by President Clinton, "is rather a good place to be.... It may be a pretty good place to end up," said Nunn as his Armed Ser­vice Committee opened hear­ings on the issue. 
But, he added, "it's not going to be satisfactory to the groups that want to lift the ban. So it doesn't solve the problem so far as a large portion of this is concerned." 
Nunn, 0-Ga., and most of his committee have opposed Clin­ton's proposal to do away with the ban. And there was no indication in Monday's opening statements that those opinions had changed. 
"Am I open minded as we begin? Not completely, I must concede," said Sen. James Exon, 0-Neb. 
Sen. Lauch Faircloth, R-N.C., said of the ban, "There were good reasons for it in the first place, and nothing has changed now." 
The session was dedicated to expert testimony on the legal history and constitutional is­sues surrounding the dispute. The Constitution gives Congress clear authority to act, but the implications of what­ever action is taken could be complex and difficult, the wit­nesses said. 
Although other nations allow homosexuals in the military, cultural, legal and other differ­ences might make those cases poor models for determining what problems might ensue for 
U.S. forces, they said. 
There is also only limited value, they said, in comparing the issue with the integration of blacks into the services nearly a half century ago, or the more recently expanded role of women. 
Without "letting the genie out of the bottle, we won't know for certain," said David Bur­relli, a defense analyst at the Library of Congress. 
The panelists were dismissed as "cardboard witnesses," by Thomas Stoddard, director of the Campaign for Military Ser­vice, a group of gay-rights and civil liberties organizations formed to fight the ban. 
"We call upon Senator Nunn to call to testify in future hear­ings individual men and women who have actually borne the brunt of this policy," Stoddard said. "It is not an ab­stract legal issue that college experts can tell us about." 
Nunn's hearings were called after Clinton and Congress tus­sled in January over the presi­dent's insistence that the mili­tary gay ban be lifted. 
The president ordered the military to stop asking recruits about sexual orientation, but further action was put on hold while Congress holds its hear­ings and a Pentagon inquiry is completed. 
White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said Clinton did not want to prejudge the results of the Pentagon review. 
Guide 
continued from page 1 

and Arnold, the idea of a stu­dent guide to professors and courses originated at schools in the east. 
"They've used it at Harvard and MIT, and it's been really successful," Petrovic said. " 
She added that the idea for The Guide was part of the cam­paign platform for student body president-elect Frank Flynn and vice president-elect Nikki Wellmann, and student gov­ernment hopes that it will im­prove professors' teaching styles and overall communica­tion ability. 
"I just think it could benefit students in general," she said. "It should end up being really universal." 
The Guide will be available next fall to help students regis­ter during the 1994 spring semester. 
S.U.D.S. 
continued from page 1 

Taylor and junior Mireya Morales; and Dciton Cnyctano, also of 19177 Cleveland Road. 
Four minors were also cited for underage drinking. 
Those given citations will have two options, according to Feirrell. The first is to partici­pate in a pre-trial diversion program, which is an alterna­tive to prosecution in which the individual will probably receive a fine, be required to perform community service and be on non-reporting probation for a period of six months to one year. 
If at the end of this period there have been no other viola­tions, the charges will be dropped and the individual's record expunged, said Feirrell. 
The other available option would be for the individual to plead not guilty to the citation and set a court date, he said. 
S.U.D.S. is a law enforcement group composed of officers from the St. Joseph County, In­diana Excise, Mishawaka and South Bend Police Departments. 
Minorities 
continued from page 1 
methods but first you must be comfortable with yourself' be­fore giving to others. 
African-Americans who as­sociate pr~dominantly with white people are trying to bridge the gap with good inten­tions, but as a result their own community writes them off, said Chandra Johnson. 
"This is detrimental to a rela­tionship with a wider African­American circle." 
Kenya Johnson agreed, saying "There's a problem with denying your culture and not identifying with it." 
Her personal experience at NO being a part of both interra­cial and African-American communities "makes me more of what I am. You can't isolate yourself from blacks. It is 
Law 
continued from page 1 
women reaching the top of the legal profession do indeed ex­ist." 
In addressing gender bias, Abrahamson stated, "Male judges and male attorneys, as well as both female and male court personnel, seem to treat women with less dignity and respect than they do men, and seem to accord less credibility towards women." 
Abrahamson said that there are "several concrete reasons for us to be hopeful," but that "women judges and lawyers are for the most part still tokens in the courtrooms and in the profession, yet we should regard ourselves as beacons of change." 
She told the audience that "we stand today on the brink of a great transformation of the legal profession. For the first time a woman lawyer heads the United States Justice De­partment." 
In closing her speech, she stated that "it is possible to change institutions and society before they change us ... There is much to indicate that my hope for the future is well detrimental to the self and cul­ture. It doesn't have to be one way or the other." 

Racism is due to a general lack of understanding, said Kenya Johnson who received racially harassing phone calls this year. "It was the first time I was discriminated against based solely on my ethnicity." 
While Chandra Johnson has not personally felt bothered by racism, her peers and class­mates have reached out to her concerning race related prob­lems with rectors, friends and others. 
"It is a lot due to the fact that we don't know how to get along with each other's stuff," she said. 
Ly also has not experienced discrimination but is aware of racially motivated stereotypes. She said others expect her to excel academically because she is Asian. 
"I am human also and I do get 
women in the law profession. The women presented a gen­erally favorable picture of life at the Notre Dame law school, sighting only slight incidences of sexism in the classrooms. Jeannine Davis, law school class of 1980, stated, "I never felt different in the law school." 
When discussing the experi­ences of the panel members, Karen DeSantis, law school class of 1986, echoed the feel­ings of Judge Abrahamson, saying, "many strides have been made but there are still many many strides to be taken." 
DeSantis went on to say that the "glass ceiling" which keeps women from reaching the top levels of their professions "truly does exist." She cited many causes, including the fact that women do not as yet have the same network systems that men C's and D's. It is not dis­crimination but out of igno­rance that people assume all Chinese people should get A's. Some stereotypes are flat out wrong." 
"The key to getting along is the need to continually thinking of what is right," added Mar­lowe. People try to change to meet the American ideal; choices should not sacrifice righteousness. 
There is hope in the future for cultural diversity, according to Ly. "We need to keep trying to reach each other and there will be a meeting place." 
Chandra Johnson agreed saying, "I hope and pray for a utopia, although I know I'll never see it in my lifetime. I can hope that you will be sensitive about knowing my history and the impact of your people's history on mine." 
have, in which many business deals are made. 
"A man is presumed compe­tent," said Kym Worthy, law school class of 1984, in relating incidences from her own career as a litigator in Wayne County, Michigan. She said that, as a woman lawyer, "you have to prove yourself before anyone will take you seriously." 
In encouraging women to push for their careers, Judge Claire Williams, law school class of 1975, said "you must get your foot in the door... you must find mentors." 
Judge Abrahamson encour­aged women to form a sort of "old girl's network," and to help other women in the legal profession. She stated, "life is tough enough without stepping on each others' toes." 



Computer Applications Honor Society presents 
Andersen Consulting 
Wednesday, March 31 1993 Hesburgh Library Lounge 7-8 pm 
---~-~­
Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
Lecturer discusses roots of pornography in America 
By CHRISSY HALL News Writer 
The desensitization of Amer­ica's present culture can be at­tributed to pornography, ac­cording to Judith Reisman of the Institute for Media Educa­tion in Arlington, Va., in her lecture, "Media and Sexuality." 
Reisman, who has specialized in human sexuality for the last twenty years, turned to many social sources to explain this si­tuation. 
She began her lecture by asking the males in the audi­ence to stand. Men, she said, must be addressed on these is­sues, for they are the ones who "defend the hearth, the home, the women, and the children; it is the men who will either make it or break it." 
She then read a passage from the pastoral response of the Vatican in 1989 on pornogra­phy. It stated that "soft core porn can have a gradually de­sensitizing effect on its audi­ence [by encouraging] the con­sideration of persons as objects rather than persons." 
According to Reisman, the popularization of pornography is largely due to the Kinsey re­ports conducted in the late for­ties and early fifties. 
This "swing" period of the sixties did not last for long, but Kinsey became the "father of human sexuality and sex edu­cation," said Reisman. 
In her book "Kinsey, Sex, and Fraud," Reisman exposes the gross sexual misconduct of Kinsey's research on 317 chil­dren, ranging in age from two months to fourteen years. 
Moreover, the population used for Kinsey's data fails to represent a common cross­section of our society, said Reisman. 1\venty-five percent of those interviewed were in jail for sexually related crimes, while four percent were male prostitutes. She added that many of the females involved were also prostitutes, partly be­cause most married women refused to answer the questions that were asked by the researchers. 
She said that the most shock­ing conclusion from a portion of the Kinsey report states mo­lestation "does not do the child any harm... It is when social workers and the police get in­volved that the problems arise." 
"Sex science," said Reisman, "for the most part is fraud. It's just not viable." 
Reisman included an audio­visual presentation that dealt with the unity of brain, mind, and images. "What we see and feel affects our minds forever," she said. "The images on tele­vision and in photographs reg­ister as true and real in your brain. They actually have a physical effect on the human brain." 
Memories, according to Reisman as well as other spe­cialists, are stored biologically. In just seconds, an image will leave a trace that lasts for years. 
Reisman advised reading her books, "so you won't be part of the problem, but be part of the solution." 
CAPS & GOWNS 
Tuesday and Wednesday March 30th and 31st Stop in and order your caps and gowns at.... 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ~·on the campus" 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

The Observer page 5 
Children hold hope for America 
By SARAH DORAN up.jn a hou~ing project like Associate News Editor Henry Horner Homes. on the Wf!st.side_ of Chicago. We must 
The most ilpperative p~(iP~('pl n~~r~~ftn4 tp~_sens~ qf i;OJ:Jl• that we as· a society face is the. · ·· ·ty> that)~xJsts there~ ~~A challenge of na~:rowing it · · om nity as ~hasln that separates 11)~.•··• " id> ··• Americas-poverty and vyQ e said AlE!x Kotlowitz d ··· ·..··. •.... thete 
~~zrh~~!a:~::~; have ~r:e·~ai~~~r~l ··•··.· ...... .·.. a~~ieviJ;lg this goal lies Qlmpnity is -• ~~trelll dren,he said. . . ··..·. an4.JendSt9 tb~<di · 
· "We need to provide a child· ofloyalties so that residents can hood· that these children do nQt (>no 1on.ger trl,ijit even l:JJe.ir oW!l feel that they need to runfrom,;wneighbors."hesaid; ··•.·•·· •..... a childhood that can preserve .. "This le . to the ina,bility of their vision;" be said; "The unJ· + childre . build any kind of verses of most children are very meaningful relationships in strong but the tragedy lies i.~ theirlivef!;~ said Kotlovvitz. what their universe con->> Violence B.Ild the silence that tains, "said the author and Wall · often follows it in areas like Street ;Journal Reporter lectut· llenfY Horner Ifomes P1ust be ing on the subject of "Children ., remedied in order to change and Poverty.". . .· ....••... ··· their defi"!,tion,,..~f c~mmunity, 
"Our challenge lies in under• ; he $aid. 1• +•( standing what its like to grow · "Violence gives children a 
problem in trusting," be said. "I strongly believe that we as a nation have got to deal with the issue of v!olence as an issue o 
·public health because with chll* dren, yiolenfe leaves deeper scarsth~ it does in adults/~ 
"The self-imposed silane~ that often fq\}ows i$sue~ of viol~nce 
> rs.~~ !:fi~tfi~::~~c:l~~r: f~Oill ~ny spirited commuruty,~ he sai~. · "We must start listening." .. In. finding>ways ··to rebuild a sense of commuruty, listening is ((tucialand we must begin the listening at the elementary school level, be said. "Elementary schools are the building block. The are the only remaining force with any semblance .of dignity in aiding this cause," said Kotlowitz. "The commitment that we need can be found in the teach­ers and staff of schools.'" · 
Recommendations discussed at C.L.C. 

By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) discussed the final rec­ommendations of the task force on hall semi-formals and pro­posals to improve the role of hall judicial boards in a meeting yesterday afternoon. 
The recommendations of the task force, headed by former HPC co-chair Marianne Ravry, conclude a year of research and discussion with students and rectors, according to Ravry. 
The semi-formal revisions proposed by the task force in­clude: 
•a 
non-alcoholic semi-formal for freshmen during the first month of school sponsored by the halls and the Office of Stu­dent Affairs; 

•reduction 
of the number of working days needed to process a dance request from one week to three days; 

•approval 
for an entire hall semi-formal would require that 70 percent of the residents agree with it and that 60 per­cent attend; 


•reduction of the minimum 

amount of money that halls are required to spend per person on food and non-alcoholic bev­erages; 
•permission of hall to expand the scope of their social activi­ties beyond all-hall semi-for­mals, subject to the approval of the Office of Student Affairs. 
These recommendations were approved with 13 in favor and zero opposed. Bill Kirk, as­sistant vice-president of student affairs, abstained. The vote in­sures that the CLC endorses these proposals, which will be taken into consideration when du Lac is revised. 
In other business, Rich Dele­van, executive coordinator of the legal department, presented the revised text of the CLC's judicial board recom­mendations, which will also be taken into account when du LLac is revised this year. 
The CLC voted for the mea­sures, with 11 in favor, and two abstaining. The final recom­mendations about the judicial boards include: 
•regular 
meeting times in the halls for board deliberations. 

•standardized 
hearing proce­dures in the halls, even if of-


We thought uou 
werea I 
CJOVT major! ...22 uears old ar1d uou still do11't RI\OW how to do it! 
Happy Birthday from the L.IAV. fan club 
*Save up to $3000 on your next r.ar or truck *College graduate rebate of $400 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
Corner of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka 
Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 
fenses and penalties are not. 

•a 
training seminar for all board members explaining how to follow procedures and conduct trials. 

•an 
individual hall selection process of judicial board mem­bers which is subject to the ap­proval of the Office of Resi­dence Life and the Judicial Council. 


"The essential change is that it doesn't demand a specific process and it gives the halls the freedoms they were looking for," said Delevan. 
This was the last meeting of the 1992-1993 CLC. The 1993­1994 CLC members will take over at the next council meet­ing. 
SECURITY BEAT 

FRI., MARCH 26 6:22 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the North Dining Hall to investigate a possible th$ft. . · ·P .o; • 7:10 p:m. Notre. Dame Security resPonded .to a case of a University employee In pessession of a oont.rolled s~bstance. SAT., MARCH 27 1:05 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded tO a fire alarm on the second floor ol Dillon Hall. No injuries were reported. 1:oa a.m•. Notre Dame Secilrity responded to a report thai the phone from the front door area of Zahm Hall was stolen. 7:19a.m. Notre Dl;\me Security responded to Nieuwland Science Hall where a University employee reported water damage ·JO the second and third floors of the building. ·· 2:01 p.m. A graduate student reported t\:le theft of a portable bicycle rack from his vehicle while 11 was parked in the D-2 parking lot. 2:43 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to· an injured Grace Halt resident· at the Stepan Basketball Courts. An ambulance transported the victim to St. Joseph Medical Center. IM8 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the Rockne Memorial with regards to three South Bend residents who were ejected irom the building. SUN., MARCH 28 2:54 a.m. A Champaign, Illinois resident was <mested for public Indecency and Indecent exposure. · 7:15 a.m. A University reported a case of vandalism to the LaFortune Student Center. 7!39 a.m. Notre Dame Security responded to an attempted theft of a street sign. 3:30 p.m. A. Howard Hall resident reported the theft of her wallet while she was working atthe South Dining Hall.  
TRANSLATORS Earn extra money as contract transla­tor in growing segment of ourcommu­nications business. Callnowfor details and information packet. Zoss Com­munications, Inc. 219-288-1422.  

J 
~ 

---~ 
-~-----~ 

page 6 The Observer 

eaten on 
ot batt e 
MOSCOW (AP) -Lawmakers undercut President Boris Yeltsin's power again Monday· and authorized an April refer­endum to Jet voters pass judg­ment on Russia's painful eco· nomic reforms. 
Closing out a raucous, four· day emergency session, par­liament speaker Ruslan Khas· bulatov proclaimed they had blocked a presidential coup. Legislators also created a commission to investigate the defiant speech Yeltsin made to supporters Sunday, calling it an "open call for revolt." 
Yeltsin's aides scoffed at the moves by the Congress of Peo· pie's Deputies. They said Yeltsin still might call his own plebiscite, raising the prospect of two competing nationwide ballots on April 25. 
With the failure of hard-liners to vote Yeltsin from office Sun­day, the Congress session seemed to leave the president and lawmakers in a bitter draw and intensified the power struggle that has paralyzed government for nearly a year. 
The president's legal options were limited, including appeal· ing to the Constitutional Court. Some pro-Yeltsin lawmakers said his best route was simply to ignore decisions by the Congress. 
"The Congress has turned into an infernal machine for destroying civic peace and political stability," presidential spokesman Vyacheslav Kostikov said. 
Khasbulatov, Yeltsin's main political rival, closed the session by accusing the president of mounting "a fairly simple attempt to commit a coup d'etat," alluding to Yeltsin's declaration of "special powers" on March 20. 

"The ninth Congress has substantially defended this constitution, which is far from perfect, in a very critical situa· tion," said a confident-looking Khasbulatov, who also survived an ouster vote by the Congress on Sunday. 
The 1,033-memher Congress is dominated by ex-Communist Party apparatchiks, factory di­rectors and state farm chiefs elected before the Soviet col· lapse. Most oppose Yeltsin's market reforms and pro-West· ern foreign policy. 
In their latest slap at his pow· ers, legislators voted 535·213 to rescind the president's 1991 decree appointing personal "representatives" in regions across Russia. Yeltsin relies on the 66 officials to promote his reforms. 
The effect of the decision was hard to gauge. In most cases, his representatives hold other positions in local governments, which they would retain despite Monday's vote. 
In their most potent resolu· tion, the lawmakers scheduled a binding referendum for April 25 to put four questions to the voters. 
Two will ask whether Russia should hold early elections for president and for parliament. A third will ask whether voters have confidence in the presi· dent. 
Voters also will be asked whether they approve of the free-market reforms Yeltsin began in 1992 -a question that presidential aides de· nounced as being designed to elicit a "no" vote. 
Most Russians saw their living 
Bosnia truce holds, refugees 
TUZLA, Bosnia-Herzegovina of an old man who died en (AP)-More than 2,300 Muslim route. refugees took advantage of a The cease-fire has been the cease-fire and a rare relief con­most successful so far of the voy Monday to flee the cold, nearly yearlong Bosnian war. It hunger and encircling Serb went into effect at noon Sunday, forces at the eastern Bosnian and U.N. officials reported no enclave of Srebrenica. major violations. 
The refugees -women, chil­The agreement by the Bosnian dren and old men -were Serbs for the cease-fire, a packed so tightly into the 19 convoy into Srebrenica and the 
U.N. trucks that they had to evacuation out of the town stand on their luggage. But they came as the international com­waved with relief as they munity turned up pressure reached safety in the Bosnian recently for a settlement. The government-held city of Tuzla. convoy of food and medicine 
Some apparently died en was only the second into Sre­route. Tales were common of brenica since Dec. 10. people falling otT the trucks -The war broke out last April 6 many of them open vehicles -over a vote for independence by as they traveled all day to reach standards fall sharply last year because of skyrocketing prices. Although opinion polls say many people support Yeltsin personally, they are angry about the economy. 
The Congress adopted amendments requiring each question to be approved by at least 50 percent of all eligible voters, instead of just those casting ballots. 
Although his ratings are high in the polls, Yeltsin would be hard pressed to attract enough people to the voting booth. In his 1991 election victory, Yeltsin won support from less than 43 percent of eligible vot~ ers -although he got more 60 percent of all votes cast. 
"The president must now prepare for. the referendum carefully," said Leonid Gure~ vich, a pro·Yeltsin lawmaker. "It will be very difficult for him to win the support of more than half, especially in the spring" during planting season. 
Hard·liners hope to force Yeltsin out of office with the confidence question, even though lawmakers admit it has no legal force. Yeltsin declared at a rally that he would resign if rejected by the voters. 
"The president has promised us he will resign if he doesn't get the people's confidence," said a hard·line leader, Sergei Baburin. "(Let's hope) he's an honest person." 
Anticipating an attempt to piggy-back Yeltsin's questions on theirs, lawmakers prohib­ited any changes to the ballot. That left Yeltsin with an option of calling a separate, non·bind· ing plebiscite on the same day if he hopes to capitalize on the people already voting. 
reach safety 
Bosnia's Muslims and Croats. It has left at least 134,000 people dead and missing. 
Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, was quiet Monday, and resi­dents marked the cease-fire by thronging sunny city sidewalks after three days of snow. For a year, they have been wary of clear days for fear of snipers. 
U.N. and local officials had made a list of 650 people in Srebrenica who most needed evacuation. But Lawrence Jolles of the U.N. High Com­missioner for Refugees' office said hundreds more climbed aboard the trucks, and officials could not remove all of them. 
Tuzla, 45 miles to the north­west. 
"I have no one, I have no one," sobbed 70-year-old Harja Bosankic, lying on her side, safe, in the sports hall con­verted to a refugee center. She said one son was killed by Serbs. She did not know where her other five children were. 
A teen-age granddaughter fell out of a truck as it left Sre­brenica, Bosankic said. A sandwich left by aid workers lay untouched by her belong­ings. 
Shafika Mehic cried uncon­trollably, holding her feet and rocking. She said her month-old baby turned yellow and ap­parently died en route. Doctors rushed the child away upon ar­rival, and she had heard no further. 
Relief workers were seen pulling a blanket over the face 

Seniors in the College of Business Administration 
Annual Outstanding Teacher Award elections will take place in the lobby of: 
Hayes-Healy, Monday, 3/29, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. Hurley Building, Tuesday, 3/30, 9:00 a.m.-11:15 a.m. Hayes Healy, Wednesday, 3/31, 1:00 p.m.-3:30p.m. Hurley Building, Thursday, 4/1, 1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
U.S. affirms NATO cut, support for peace in Bosnia 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) -A top American defense official affirmed Monday that U.S. mili­tary forces in Europe will be cut by nearly half, a sharper re­duction than was planned by the Bush administration. 
Deputy Defense Secretary William Perry also stressed President Clinton's commitment to support -possibly with American soldiers -an international peacekeeping force in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
Perry assured NATO that the decision to cut troop levels on the European continent to 100,000 from the current 187,000 would not weaken the 
U.S. role in defending its allies. 
"This is not because of a re­duced commitment to Europe, but because of a reduced threat to our collective security," he said at a joint meeting of de­fense ministers from the 16 NATO nations and 18 former Soviet bloc countries. 
Perry did not say when the cutback would be completed. But in announcing the decision in February, Defense Secretary Les Aspin said it would be no later than fiscal year 1996. Perry filled in for Aspin, who is recovering from heart surgery. 
With the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Union, U.S. troop levels in Eu­rope have dropped from 351,000 at the end of the Rea­gan administration. Congress urged the further reduction to 100,000, but President Bush had planned to cut levels only to 150,000 by 1996. 
Manfred Woerner, secretary­general of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, said he was satisfied with the 100,000 level. 
"The new administration of President Clinton has no inten­tion of going below that num­ber, at least not before the year of 1996," Woerner said at a news conference. "And 1996 is far away." 
Some NATO allies fear Wash­ington is moving too rapidly in cutting its forces at a time of instability in Europe following the collapse of communism. Some also worry the cutback by the United States, the most powerful member of of the al­liance, will set off similar cuts by European members. 
The Europeans were com­forted by Perry's support for an eventual NATO-led peace­keeping force in Bosnia. 
"NATO should play an impor­tant role, and the United States stands ready to make a sub­stantial contribution, possibly including ground forces," he said. 
American military leaders previously expressed reluctance about getting U.S. ground forces entangled in the ethnic conflict in the former Yugoslav state. 
NATO strategists are working on plans for a peacekeeping force of 65,000 to 75,000 sol­diers to help the United Nations enforce any settlement in Bosnia. 
Some NATO nations question the alliance's ability to field such a force and suggest that former Soviet bloc countries help. 
After talking Monday with Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev, Woerner said he saw no reason Russia could not participate in the operation. But Canada's defense minister, Kim Campbell, said later that Russia appeared reluctant to make many troops available. 
NOW AVAILABLE! 
Custom Engraved Luggage Tags Blue & Gold with ND Logo 
Varsity Shop JACC 
or copies from your color original. (8.6x11 or Or. have your color original digitized and saved either Mac or Oos format. 
Color copies of 4-6 originals can usua made while you wait. All other services 3-5 working days to com 
Professors-Jump Start funding 
Apply by submitting a brief pro DesRoisers, 115 DeBartolo, to of creating materials or conve 
Contact Marlene Malott. r~:~rmtJrA room 9 ofthe CCE Building, . concerning printing from 



Business 
Tuesday, March 30, 1993 page 7 

LaFortune student businesses for service, not profit 
By KATIE MURPHY 
as opposed to profit, according Business Writer to Cenedella. 
The problem arises when one 
The purpose of the three stu­of the businesses suffers a loss, dent-run businesses located in said Cenedella. Although the LaFortune is to provide a ser­Senate suggests that the busi­vice to students rather than nesses concentrate on providing make a profit, according to a service, they often question employees of Irish Gardens, the reason for the loss, and Notre Dame Video, and Ad­seem to be more profit-ori­works. ented. 
"The nature of [these busi­"The Senate and student gov­nesses} is a service operation," ernment do get upset about [the said Ana DeBevoise, a junior losses]," said DeBevoise. English major and assistant "We know we can make manager of Irish Gardens. "It's money. But we're not here to for the convenience of the rake the students for every students." penny they have," said 
Mike Batz, a senior majoring Cenedella. in finance and Japanese and Adworks, for example, is do­vice-president of daily affairs ing better this year in the area for Adworks, agrees. of profits. 
"It's more of giving people Adworks, pictured here, along with Irish Gardens and ND Video provide key student services. Batz credits "improved man­experience and providing a agerial organization" for the service," said Batz. Cenedella's assistant general handle day-to-day activities," pus, according to Greg Butrus, improvement, but Cenedella The three businesses are managers are also on the said Cenedella. outgoing student body presi­cites the nature of the business. 
linked through the Student board. Adworks, however, is different dent. Any losses that the busi­"Their business is changing a Business Board, a body which The board convenes twice a than the other two businesses. nesses suffer are also taken out lot from year to year," he said. reports to the Student Senate. month to discuss Irish Gardens, "Adworks is completely self­of this account, he said. Cenedella emphasized the 
Members include Matt Adworks, and ND Video. sufficient in that we have our balance between profits, ser­Cenedella, general manager of Cenedella also reports monthly own finance department," said For the period ending Feb. vices, and business experience the board, James Lyphout, as­to the Senate. Batz. 28, 1993, the collective year-to­for students. Money is provided sociate vice-president of busi­The board generally controls date income of Adworks, ND for the campus improvements, ness affairs, and Mary Edging­the accounts of the student-run The profits of each business Video, and Irish Gardens was services are given to the stu­
ton, the director of facilities for ventures. are ultimately put into a "carry just over $2,000. The issue has dents, and employees learn how student activities. A student se­"We do a lot with their sup­forward" fund in student gov­been raised as to whether the to run a serious business nator, the student body presi­plies. We handle their financial ernment which is used for capi­primary objective of the busi­venture, he noted. 
dent and treasurer, and functions so the managers can tal improvements around cam-nesses should strictly be service 
Murdoch regains control of Post 
e~onomy seeing 
NEW YORK (AP) -A federal "God bless Rupert Murdoch creditors and unions. bankruptcy judge on Monday and Governor Cuomo for It was the prohibition on dual 
f§,§trctined growth
gave control of the financially bringing in Mr. Murdoch.... God media ownership that forced crippled New York Post to bless you all!" said Abe Murdoch to sell the paper five . WASHINGTON (AP} -Per: cent in February to a seasonally Rupert Murdoch, the owner of a Hirschfeld, who operated the years ago, but U.S. senators 
sonal income grew by a lacklqs-adjusted $4.26 trillion, after a worldwide communications Post for two turbulent weeks who blocked him from securing Jer (),2, percent last.month, 0.3 percent advance inJanuary. empire who sold the newspaper and gave control over to a waiver of the rule then have 
forCing Americans to dip into Blft about a third of the rise five years ago. Murdoch. given assurances they will not ·savings to pay utility bills dur-was attributed to extr Judge Francis Conrad, Murdoch, who previously stand in the way this time. 
ing the fifth coldest February on spending on heat. speaking from Rutland, Vt., owned the tabloid from 1976 
.;recqrd, the govermnent said "There's a lot of distortions acted at the end of a telephone through early 1988, will run the Ken Chandler, former 
Mond,ay. ·•···... ••. .·..· .. but the basic trend is incom conference with lawyers for the paper for two months while managing editor of the Post, 
The weather also held back a and spending are rising mod various parties involved in the working out terms of was expected to be appointed 
rebound innew home sales. erately, but not rapidly, righ bankruptcy court action. permanent ownership, said his its new editor in chief, replacing 
. Re~traiped by sev~ral speeial now/' said economist Brue "This is a wonderful dream. I lawyer, Arthur Siskind. Pete Hamill, according to 
:faetQrs in additio~ to the> Steinb~rg ofMerrill Lynch, really thought we were done sources at the Post and WNYW. 
weather, income rose to a sea· The gross domestic product for," said Pat Wilks, a reporter Murdoch said earlier that his 
sonally adjusted annual rate of .the sqm of all goods arid ser for the money-losing tabloid. conditions included a waiver of Hamill's lawyer, Richard 
~5·?~ ,trilli9n,' folloWing a vices producedwithin u.~. bor federal regulations barring him Emery, said Hamill had 
!$tronger·o;5 percen~ gain ill ders. advanced at a bri$k4: .· The judge said formal from owning both the Post and declined a "lucrative offer" to 
:;ranuary, the Corp.merce De-percent annual rate during th · approval was subject to his his local television station, stay on with Murdoch's media 
partment said, ''" fourth quarter. the best show review of a written proposal. WNYW, and the consent of empire as a writer. 
, Jlpendin eased Q.~ pf:lr· insin:Qy~years~
!.-::·'':-·:;· =<~::~:. ,=·:·:::;=.··. :·: . :L~v;:··.:.: ..:·::.:.··...... ·:.:::·;>';.;::·: ;::·r,>:;~'-· ·· ::n:·,.:::·;·~/=r··~·: · :;:.-;~:·· V·:· .. ·,. 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 
h i I 
• WASHINGTON-The Circle K.convE~nience store ch1.1inhas agreed to put up $30 million to help clean up potentialleaks.P:om underground gasoline storage tanks in 29 states, the Justice Department announced Monday. Under a proposed settlement with the federal government and a group ofstates, Circle K Corp., now in bankruptcy reorganization, would pay the money over six years to state·trost funds in proportion to the percentage ofits 2,300 tank sites in each state, the department said. The money would be used to compensate states and l1:1.Jldowners for • cleanl.rlg up contamination where tanks have leaked · ·· 
Delta Airlines retrenches once a~ain 
• ATLANTA-Delta Air Lines announced plans Monday to ay o 600 pilots and retire 28 jets this year in the biggest retrenchment yet for the nation's third largest airline, a move which will reportedly save the airline $100 million per year. Delta execqt;\Ves said they were dissatisfied by a concession otTer from the AirLine Pilots Association, and would not lay otT flight attendants or other employees connected with the retired jets. The layoffs, amounting to nearly 7 percent of Delta's pilots, a:re the airline's fits(p
permanent employees in 36 years. · · .. ·. ·· 
Sanctions hingt on talks with Eg 
• BRUSSELS. Belgium.-The Clinton administration delayed imposing sanctions on the European Community for three weeks Monday after the EC offered concessions in their dispute over how government contracts are awarded, U.S. Trade Represel!tative Mickey Kantor said he wollld put otl'sanctiorts until EC trade thie 
Sir Leon Brittan visits Washington April 19-20 for more talks. But Kantor stressed that the row over public works contracts remains unsettled and penalties could still be imposed on the 12·nation 
trading bloc. · ... ,.,.. 

United to buy USAir's London route 
CHICAGO (AP) -United Airlines said Monday it has agreed to buy USAir's Philadelphia-London route for $14.5 million pending approval by the U.S. and United Kingdom governments to change it to a Chicago-London route. 
Such a change would give United a nonstop link between its hub at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport and its European hub at London's Heathrow Airport, a connection prohibited by an aviation pact between the two markets. 
"Our proposal provides President Clinton's administration with an early opportunity for the UK government to demonstrate its commitment to expanding air transportation between our two countries," United Chairman Stephen Wolf said in a statement. 
The route currently is between Philadelphia and London's Gatwick Airport. USAir is disposing of its three London routes, from Philadelphia, Baltimore and Charlotte, N.C., as part of its new marketing alliance with British Airways, which will continue service from those U.S. 
points. 

Under that deal, approved by the Clinton administration March 15, British Airways is investing $300 million in the struggling, Arlington, Va.-based carrier. 
U.S. government approval of an additional $450 million investment by the British carrier hinges in part on renegotiation of the aviation treaty. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena said in approving the first part of the deal that the administration was seeking "open skies" to give U.S. airlines new access to British airports. 
The United-USAir route proposal "kind of draws the issue very quickly," said John Stodden, an airlines analyst with Duff & Phelps/MCM Investment Research Co. in Chicago. 
Either party can terminate the United-USAir deal if it is not closed by May 14. Regulatory approval by that date would enable United to launch Chicago-London service by July 15, United spokesman Joe Hopkins said. 
The deal would require approval by the Department of Transportation, President Clinton and the British Ministry of Transport, Hopkins said. 
The Chicago-London route would enable United to compete with American Airlines and British Airways, both of which fly nonstop from Chicago to London. 
Chicago-based United flies to London from New York; Newark, N.J.; Washington; Seattle; San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
United's parent, UAL Corp., lost $957 million last year and is considering reducing domestic service to cut costs. The company wants to acquire the Chicago-London route to link its U.S. and European hubs and to better compete on its home turf, Hopkins said. 
"We have wanted to enter that market for a long time but have been precluded from doing so by the U.S.-UK air services agreements," he said. The 16-year-old pact limits the U.S.-United Kingdom traffic at each airport. 
United has been a leader in pressing the government to push for fewer restrictions on access by U.S. carriers to foreign markets. 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Edltor-ln-<:hlef David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ......... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..•.Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ••••..Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...•.. Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor ..•..••••.•••...Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ..•....•.•••.Patrick Barth Photo Editor •••••••••.•............Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor •••.Jennifer Habrych Controller ••••••••••.•.•......•....Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-In-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 

Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631·4540 Managing EdltorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631·5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631·5323 Oflice Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Non-Athlete denied Loftus access 
Dear Editor: 
This past Wednesday, I went over to Loftus Center to carry out my usual regiment of Army Physical Fitness Training. It was 6:15 p.m., and the track was supposed to be open for my use. However, much to my chagrin, I was turned away from the entrance and told, "Sorry, the track's closed. On Mondays and Wednesdays, when the weather's like this, the football team practices in here until 8:~0." 
"When the weather's like this," I pondered. On Wednes­day evening it was 45 degrees and partly cloudy -pretty fierce weather! Now don't get me wrong, because I'm a big fan. But heck, maybe the foot­ball team is really a bunch of sissies who don't like to be cold. Maybe they could have been frostbitten. Maybe it's been five years since they've won a Na­tional Championship because they can't handle such brutal South Bend weather anymore. Nevertheless, it was access de­nied for me. And that meant exercise denied. 

My choice to pursue a career as an Army officer may not have the glamour and tradition that Notre Dame Football has, but nevertheless it is what I want to be. And in facilitating that end, I need rigorous exer­cise as much as the football team needs practice to win. If I can stomp around on Ranger Field in sub-zero wind-chill weather, I do believe my com­paratively colossal peers on the football team can handle a pleasant 45 degrees without too much suffering. 
If you want to exercise at Loftus on a Monday or Wednesday evening, you might be able to. It all depends on Lou's feelings about the weather. Why doesn't Notre Dame build a football facility separate from Loftus? Why is it that the privileges of non-var­sity athlete students are so nonchalantly denied? Why do I feel as though none of our head honchos will pay any attention to my complaint? Oh yeah, I forgot-unlike a Division I ath­lete, I'm not considered an as­set. 
Jason Maier 
Off-Campus 
March 26, 1993 


Dear Editor: This is not the first time that 
We have a complaint on be­this has happened. Anytime we half of a vast number of female have attempted to use the students here at Notre Dame. It basketball courts, the weight seems that many of the men on room, or any of the facilities, this campus do not realize that we have been treated as if we we have just as much right to did not belong there. Too often the basketball courts and other we are stereotyped as non­athletic facilities as they have. serious athletes. 
This came to our attention the Some men assume that we other night while playing one­are there only to fool around on-one at the Rock. Instead of and are not serious about what being asked to move to a we are doing. We realize that different basket so two teams this does not apply to all men could play full court, we were here on campus, but to those literally forced ofT of the court. that it does apply to, we simply Our choices were either to ask that you try to be a little leave or to stay and get tram­more considerate and realize pled. We are not complaining that we have the right to use about having to move. We everything we pay for. The would have gladly switched same right you do. baskets if we were asked to do Shelly Dillenburger so. Our point is that we were Jill Satanek ignored and were not taken se­Badin Hall riously. March 22, 1993 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Don't major in minor things." 
M. Jackson Brown Jr. 
Do something major. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

-.
Accent 
Tuesday, March 30, 1993 page 9 



The envelope please... 

Belt Plcbl'8 The nominees for best picture were: 
• 
The Crying Game 

• 
Unforgiven 

• 
A Few Good Men 

• 
Howard's End 

• 
Scent Of A Women And the winner was "Unforgiven," 


Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman. 
File photo 

The nominees for best actor were: 
• 
Robert Downey Jr. (Chaplin) 

• 
Clint Eastwood (Unforgiven) 

• 
Stephen Rea (The Crying Game) 

• 
Al Pacino (Scent Of A Woman) 

• 
Denzel Washington (Malcolm X) 


Unforgiven 
BlltACblr 

The winner wasAJ Pacino from "Scent Of A 

AI Pacino

Woman." 
File photo 

lilt llpportlng Actur The nominees for best supporting actor were: 
• 
Jaye Davidson (The Crying Game) 

• 
Jack Nicholson (A Few Good Men) 

• 
Al Pacino (Glengarry Glen Ross) 

• 
Gene Hackman (Unforgiven) 

• 
David Paymer (Mr. Saturday Night) 


The winner was Gene Hackman for his performance in "Unforgiven." 
Impeccable acting soothes strange "The Crying Game" 
In what was one of the most prisoner (Forest Whitaker), his powerful sequences in "The female co-worker (Miranda Crying Game," Forest Whitaker Richardson), and the prisoner's (prisoner) relates the following love interest (Jaye Davidson). analogy to Stephen Rea Revealing any part of the (guard). There was this startling plot would be unfair 
to the reader. However, it is the 
Movie Review 
very plot of this film which 
by James Dowd 
troubles me. "The Crying scorpion which wanted to cross Game" goes too far. It is a river. It asked a frog nearby needlessly offending. Jordan 
for a ride. does all the essential things 
The frog agreed only if the well except for the fact that he scorpion promised not to sting doesn't make a point. The him. On the route, the scorpion film's ending leaves the story stung him, and they both somewhat unresolved. drowned. On the way down, The acting in this film was 
the frog asked the scorpion to superb. Seldom have I seen explain. The scorpion said, "It finer performances. Across the was in my nature." board, everyone was terrific. 
Neil Jordan's "Crying Game" Rea has burst onto the scene 
attempts to teach us about and is destined for stardom. human nature. He does this by He masterfully blends mixing episodes of intense slickness and sensitivity in this 
acting, self actualization, and challenging role. Rea is on utilizes the "surprise" screen for almost the ~tire technique. The confusing plot film, and the audience builds a mingles politics with romance. rapport with him. It was almost The story tracks the life of an as if we were living on the edge Irish hitman (Stephen Rea), with him. Whitaker gave the and his relationships with a most convincing performance 
IIIII DiractaP 
The nominees for best director of a feature film were: 
• 
Neil Jordan (The Crying Game) 

• 
James Ivory (Howards End) 

• 
Robert Altman (The Player) 

• 
Clint Eastwood (Unforgiven) 

• 
Martin Brest (Scent Of A Woman) 


The award was presented to Clint Eastwood for director skills in "Unforgiven." 
.,.,.,,M,.,,...,nml"...,.,.,.,..... .. ,.BIIt Ac1PI8a ···'"'NJwr,, · 
The nominees for best actress 
were: 
• 
Catherine Deneuve (Indochine) 

• 
Emma Thompson (Howards End) 

• 
Mary McDonnell (Passion Fish) 

• 
(Love Field) 

• Susan Saran don (Lorenzo's Oil) The winner was Emma Thompson for "Howards End." 
The Observer/Chris Mullins Thompson 
881Uupport11111 ActJtas 
The nominees for best supporting actress were: 


Thumbs Up: The picks for best picture, best actor. best actress and best supporting actress were right on the · money. "Unforgiven," was a 'given:, with it's superb acting, beautful scenery, warm cinematography and an intriguing. story. Although it is rare for a woman in a comic role to win, Tomei got what she had coming to her 
Inside the Oscars 

e. 6~th Annual Ai~d~myAwards we're held last night at th~uPqrothy Chandler Pavilion in Lo§!illgeles, California. 
·.Ag· usual the night was filled Wit.b laughter inspired by host Billy ·Cr-ystal, fascination created by musical performances by artists such as Nell Carter and · oyful· emotion emanating from Oscar nomipees .and.Winners. 
. But the n~aar ft:lur,hour long evening was c~unposed more t;ha,n ~imply handins out awarcJ,s. Here· are {1. few informative sto.t:ies describing occurrences during the night that did not begin with, "The envelopeplease. ./' 
Tomei surprised by Oscar 
AP:,..:....Competing against sollle 
o the world's most acclaimed aetresses, Jittle~known Marisa Tq.wei was an upset winner Monday night, rec~iving an Oscar for .b~.~t .. supporting actres~, She . cited·.· tor her performance as Joe Pesci'sfeisty gklliiend in the hit comedy "My 
Cou8m Vmny."' . ··. ·· ''This is suc.b a great honor·to receive this year when we recognize and celebrate and honor women,~ sald Tomei .. The tlunne .of the 65th Academy Awards, televised live by AB~ to 
a worldwide audience estimated in advance at lbillion, was "Qsqar $alutes Women· and t;he Mqvies."' 
Hepburn honored at Oscar's 
AP-In a sober tribute amid Monday night's Oscars glamour, the late Audrey Hepburn was honored with the .Jean· Hersholt Humanitarian Award for her work as a goodWill ambassador for..UNICEF. Gregory Peck, co~ star' of Hepburn's . in her breakthrough film "Roman Holiday," presented the award to her son; Sean Ferrer. "She b~lieved every ehild has the right to health, to hope, to tenderness and tQ life," said Ferrer. ''On her behalf, I dedicate this to the children o the world." Hepburn died .Jan. 20 ofcancer at age 63. 
:;porter aueod:'a SQth ·tjme 
AP~Minutes .. into. Monday's 
cade01y Award ceremony, . 200 members of the press stopped work backstage to join in a special tribute to Associated Press writer Bob Thomas, covering his 50th Oscar show for the news agency. Thomas received a certificate from the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences. After the presentation. Thomas, in his usual glib manner, said simply, "Let's go back to work." 
Other winners 
ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY: Neil Jordan, "The Crying Game." ORIGINAL MUSIC SCORE: Alan Menken. "Aladdin" COSTUME DESIGN: Eiko lshioka, "Bram Stoker's Dracula" CINEMATOGRAPHY: Philippe Rousselot; 'fA River Runs '11trough It~ 

-
-
for great performance. 
Thumbs Down: Jack Nicholson and Robert Altmanwere definitely short~ changed. Nicholson's gave a massive performance in the powerful drama, "A Few Good Men," And Altman deserves much more praise for ~The Player," his unique1 darkly comedic film. 
of his career in this film, unfortunately it was a small part. 
His prisoner was nervous, nostalgic, and engaging. Richardson. nominated for best supporting actress in "Damage," was Rea's sexy and alluring lover. You must see Davidson's performance as Oil, the prisoner's lover, to believe 
• 
Miranda Richardson (Damage) 

• 
Judy Davis (Husbands and Wifes) 

• 
Vanessa Redgrave (Howards End) 

• 
Joan Plowright (Enchanted April) 

• 
Marisa Tomei (My Cousin Vinny) 


The winner was a surprised 
Marisa Tomei for comical role in "My Cousin Vinny." 
it. His acting is remarkable, and I'm not sure that any other actor could have succeeded as well. Davidson along with Rea are also nominated for acting Oscars. The critics have raved, the Academy has honored. Don't wait any longer to see this provocative little thriller. 
RATING: +++112 { Out of five) 
File photo 

Although ''The Crying Game," was not chosen as best picture, the movie has much to offer. 

Accent 

page 10 Tuesday, March 30, 1993 

unknown destination 
BY THERESA CAUSA library of approximately 2,500 an unknown destination. The win. Names will be drawn until the dance, the more popular it Accent Writer songs). People can dance amid trip is valued at $1,000. a winner is awarded. Her guest will be," said Cathleen Ebner, the special effects of lasers, The destination will be re­must also be a Saint Mary's chairperson of the event. "I en­Two lucky Saint Mary's stu­lights and smoke to the strains vealed at the time of the draw­student, who also purchased a courage people to buy the T­dents will be going on a fantasy of their favorite music video. ing. The contest is restricted to raffle ticket or must then pur­shirts and raffle tickets. They're trip this weekend. Refreshments will also be Saint Mary's students only. chase one. only $2 and the trip is well But don't ask where, it's a se­available. The winner and her compan­"It's a really unique idea," worth it. It's very, very nice. I cret. ion will have until 11 a.m. Fri­said Shelly Lebiedzinski, a wish I was going but I can't," 
"Destination Unknown", McCandless Hall sophomore, day morning to pack appropri­Regina North Hall freshman. she said. Saint Mary's first annual All­Ellen Chiu, is excited about the ately. They will then be flown to "Who wouldn't want to pay $2 Ebner planned the entire trip, Campus Event, will be held to­upcoming event. "It should be their destination. Accommoda­to win an inexpensive, much­along with the help of Marlene morrow night from 9 p.m. to 1 fun," Chiu said. "It's an oppor­tions have been made for the needed break." Johnson, assistant director of 
a.m. in the Dining Hall. This tunity to get together with other weekend and spending money Each residence hall has been Student Activities. The event year's event will be a video classes and all of our friends. will be provided. They will re­encouraged to participate in the was funded by Student Activi­dance. Admission to the dance The fact that it's a casual dance turn to Saint Mary's on Sunday. festivities by decorating its ties. is free, and the dress is casual. is good, because then we don't Raffle tickets are being sold in lobby with a particular destina­A second annual All-Campus Dates are not required. have to dress up." the residence halls: one for $2, tion in mind. Destinations will Event is already in the works 
The dance has been de­The event is being called a two for $3, or 3 for $5. They be judged that night, and a cash for next year, and it may not scribed as a "wild video dance "suitcase dance," because at will also be available at the reward will be given to the necessarily be a dance. Terming party." A large video screen will the end of the night a winner dance. winning hall. it an All-Campus "event", has be set up, and a video disc will be drawn from a raffle and The winner of the trip must T-shirts commemorating the left room for new ideas each jockey will accept requests from she, along with a friend, will be be present at the dance at the event are also available for $10. year, said Ebner. a wide variety of music (a sent for a weekend getaway, to time of the drawing in order to "The more people that are at 
Knights of the faith 
The Notre Dame chapter ofthe K ofC is the oldest and largest college council 
By MATT CARBONE knights can be seen earnestly Patriotism. because this term signifies that ters and 1.45 million members. Assistant Accent Editor grilling meat in front of the K of The seal of the Knights has as "membership embodies knightly To get an idea of what this C building. This past year, the its centerpiece a cross, and is ideals of spirituality and service means in terms of service, in Its building is a common sight Council has raised $20,000 composed of a sword, anchor to the Church, community and one year the Knights average 
-
on campus, yet for most from these sales, "the highest and fasces. The sword repre­fellowman," according to the 3.4 million visits to the sick and students it is only a landmark we've ever had," said Certo. sents willingness to support the Knights' handbook. bereaved, give 300,000 dona­for giving directions (as in "Go "We're very proud of that." faith; the anchor is an universal Besides allowing members to tions of blood, and contribute past the Knights of Columbus This money will be distributed symbol of hope; the fasces is an become more deeply involved in 27.2 million man-hours of building, and the bookstore is to many charities in the South ancient Roman symbol of au-the Catholic faith and in community service. right next door"). What, then, is Bend area, with the bulk of it community service, a knight The Notre Dame chapter of the Knights of Columbus? going to the two main charities 
enjoys one other interesting the Knights has over 800 stu­
According to Dave Certo, adopted by the Council: the benefit -insurance for his wife dent, alumni, faculty and reli­Grand Knight, or President, of Gibault School for Boys in Terre and children after his death. gious members. It was founded
-the Notre Dame chapter, the Haute, ln .. which provides Any male 18 years of age or in 1910 as the first Council Knights of Columbus is a education, housing and older who is a "practical based on a college campus, and "Catholic, fraternal. charitable counseling for 13 5 troubled Catholic" (defined in the hand­is presently the largest of 109 organization. Its primary func­boys, and the Corvilla Homes book as "one who lives up to the college Councils worldwide. tion is to support and further for the Retarded, which runs Commandments of God and the Last year, it won second place the Catholic faith." group homes in South Bend for Precepts of the Church") can in the Outstanding College 
To achieve this end, the people with mental retardation. apply and be interviewed for Council contest, run annually by Knights contribute much time The remainder of the money membership in the organi­the national organization to and money to various programs will be given to the Holy Cross zation. Membership application recognize outstanding service and charities. They work at the Missions, the Saint Joseph is then reviewed and voted on and achievement by a Council. Logan Center and Special County Special Olympics, the by the Council's members. This Saturday, in the morning Olympics, support Catholic South Bend Center for the Although women cannot join prior to the Blue and Goldthority.
schools, provide money for the Homeless, food baskets for the the Knights of Columbus, there game, the Knights will be
McGivney had several reasons

pro-life cause and donate poor and pro-life work. is a Ladies of Columbus organi­holding a steak sandwich sale
for choosing his organization's

money to veterans, among The Knights of Columbus was zation on campus. which often in its continuing efforts to raise
name. He felt that as a Catholic

other varied service activities. founded in 1882 by Father participates in joint activities money for charity. Certo en­
group, it should relate to

The Notre Dame Council's Michael J. McGivney, a parish with the Knights. courages everyone to stop by,
Christopher Columbus, the

primary means of fundraising is priest in New Haven, Conn. It is Today, the Knights of Colum­and do their part to help the
Catholic discoverer of America. 

its steak sandwich sales. Before founded on four principles: bus is an international organi­Knights of Columbus help
He called members Knights

each home football game, Charity, Unity, Fraternity and zation comprised of 8500 chap-others. 




Tuesday, March 30, 1993 The Observer page 11 
NCAA M.}:.N'S .BASK.F:TBAI..~I..~ CHA.MPlON.SH.lP 1993 
1st Round: 2nd Round: Regional Regional Regional Regional 2nd Round: 1st Round: March 18-19 March 20-21 Semifinals Finals Finals Semifinals March 20-21 March 18-19 
SOUTHEAST 

1) North Carolina 85 

• _1)._1'jortf-l~aroli':lll~-~~)-~~~t-~~~~;~~~ ~;-···· .... }-n.K;g~!;~---~ ) Nqr1~gl3,r()lir:\a ~ . a) Rhode Island 74
1 ......€!) ~tl':lc:IE'l_ll>lll':lc:I...J 
9) Purdue 689) Pittsburgh 65 67 

Nashville, Tenn. ..1.l..~!?.r1!Lif::.l<y__ _ 1l .N<:>r!f1..g~~()li_n Winston-Salem N C \........................ · ·· 


NOTICES 

TYPING 256-6657 
Dissertations, Theses, Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277-7406 
..SENIORS** 
SERVICE WEEK March 29-April 4 
MONDAY-St. Hedwigs 4:15-5:15 meet at Main Circle 
TUESDAY-Homeless Shelter Service Day 1:00-3:00 3:00-5:00 Meet at Main Circle 
WEDNESDAY-Habitat for Humanity Service Day 5:30-7:30 7:30·9:00 Sign up in Senior class office 1­5136 
THURSDAY-St. Hedwigs 4:15-5:30 Meet at Lyons parking lot 
SATURDAY-St. Hedwigs Serious Party at NO 1:30@ Dillon 
SUNDAY-CLASS MASS 7:00pm Dillon Hall 
**SENIORS** 
Hardworking individual wanted for work in book warehouse. Book knowledge and familiarity with PC helpful. PO Box 4621 South Bend IN 46634 
I_LOST & FOUND I 
Lost dad's sleeping bag in front of the CSC. Have you seen it? Please, if you know any info call x 4420. 
LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING. OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL OINAMARIE "OIDI" GARCIA X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL. 
LOST: Black wallet from Zahm on 3?28 with IN drivers license Call X1757 
LOST-MEN'S SILVER CLADOAUGH RING. LOST ON 3/25193. ENORMOUS SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CHRIS @ 4452. THANKS .. 
Missing as of 3/27 Black wallet. If found call x1757 
LOST: Pair of gold clip-on earrings between Zahm and St. Mary's Lake beach (by the boathouse) on Friday night (doni ask ... ). ALSO: I left my coffee mug in the upstairs bathroom of the Rock. It's grey with a blue top, and it's got my name on the bottom. Both are VERY important! 
Call Bridget at X2721 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING · 
Earn $2,000+/month + wortd travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean. 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career 
employment available. No 
experience necessary. For 
employment program call 
1·206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 
1 bdrm subleased apt. May 20-Aug. 20. Chris (217) 581-2812. 
Excellent financial opportunity for 
hard working, responsible 
individual or club/organization, 
delivering The New York limes 
newspaper on campus. Please 
leave name & phone number for 
Mike Mooney at 
1·800-535·5031. Will conduct 
interviews week of April 5. 
Need a ride OR riders to Madison, WI this weekend, April 2-4. Call Jon @271-1938. 
HELP! I need a ride to Indy 
airport on Thurs. 4/8--flight leaves 
at4. Melissa: 4-4251 
HELP MEl 
I need a ride to DC for Easter! I'll 
help w/ gas & tolls. 
Call Kim -x3885 
ride anywhere b/1 Des Moines!KC 
for Easter Oiane4x4828 
Going to Boston area or Ct. for 
Easter? will pay for gas/tolls if u 
take me can lv. 4n 284-5073 Liz 
Anyone going to U of Missouri for 
Easter? Call Allison X4758 Want extra spending cash? Need driver to deliver cakes on campus. Must have car. Call Patrick x3367 

SUMMER JOB Paint OUTSIDE with other STUDENTS Earn $6-8/ HOUR Cleveland· Toledo area info: John@ 271-2908 
The Southwestern Company from Nashville, TN is inter-viewing students for summer work opportunities in sales. Students typically earn $3,500·$6,500 their first summer and gain tremendous resume experience. Stop by O'Hara Lounge on first floor Lafortune for more info., to set up interview times and meet other N.D. students who have worked in past summers. Representatives there Thursday April 1 from 1:30 PM-6:30 PM. 
FOR RENT 
Four bedroom furnished Oakhill Condo open for summer rental. Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug @ 614·237-1370 for info. 
SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 
bdrms, close to campus, safe 
neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all 
utilities. Call Monica 
232-2794. 

Oakhill Condo For Rent! 2BR loft, 
2Bth, fireplace, WID, garage, 1yr 
lease. Call Caroline or Bill at317· 
297-8485 

CASTLE POINT Roomate needed for next semester. 273-YOGI 
Summer Lease 

Castle Point MATTERHORN 
Call R.J. or John 
271·2908 

BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES 
FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 
219-291·7153. 

FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS 2773097 
Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2 baths. Located College Park Condos. Comer of Bulla & Ironwood. Must be responsible tenat $595 per mo or Sale &65,900. Send info to PO Box 4075 South Bend IN 46634. 
3-5 PERSON FURNISHED HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM, WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL, PRIME LOCATION. 
233-9947. 
FOR SALE 
'83 Honda Accord for sale Great Cond. & Gas Miles Call Patricia 4-4305 
ND SKI TEAM Shirts Only $10 ... Call John x1160 
One-way plane ticket from Chicago to L.A. 5n $150. Call Jane 634-4994. 
TICKETS 
Ill Help!! I Need commencement tickets. Call Ken @ 1927 
Please, Please, Pleasellll I need two commencement tix I Call Jennifer@ 277-5972 
Help! Grad. is coming and the family is bringing everybody except the pets. I need tickelsl Call Joe@ 277-4273 
PERSONAL 
Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. 
**SENIORS** 
This is SERVICE WEEK 
**SENIORS** 
Who's Your Daddy? 
Tom-Congratulations on nuke school! Hang in there-Lent is almost over and then you can really celebrate! 
-your PE friends 
HI BEAKER : -) 
Already Sick of Clinton? Conservative Student Coalition Membership Drive Thursday April 1 Montgomery Theater 
Here comes Chinese Food! 

Woz-You are the greatest! Happy Birthday to my favorite boy in the wortdl Your admirer 
Happy 21st Birthday to: LAURA NEPPL I?I (even though her birthday was yesterday!) Much love, Bumadette 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music. the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369·2597. 
ADOPTION: A loving happy home, 
financial security, and educational 
opportunities await your newborn. 
We can help with your expenses. 
Please call us collect: David and 
Rosemery (919) 288·4490 Let's 
help each other. 

CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. NO 
Grad. Happily married for 4 years. 
Anxious to adopt newborn infant. 
Personal meeting welcome. Lawful 
and proper pregnancy related 
expenses paid. Couple approved by 
Texas adoption authorities in 
advance of placement. State 
supervised adoption procedures. 
Call collect David & Maureen 
(512) 452-3416. 

Heading for EUROPE this summer? 
Jet there anytime for only $169 from 
East Coast, $229 from the Midwest 
(when available) with AIRHITCHI 
(Reported in Let's Gol & NY 
limes.) AIRHITCH (r) 
212-864-2000. 

ND junior's sister & brother-in-law recently lost 2 infants to genetic disorders. They would like to adopt a child. Large family w/ lots of love. If you can help or know one who can, please call x3314 or (517)531­3219 collect 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
LAST DAY TO BORROW: 
May Graduates: 2/19/93 
All Others: 3/31/93 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 in LaFortune Student Center QUALITY COPIES as low as 3¢ each OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
SENIORS Ill 
Need an extra ticket for Graduation! If you're not planning to use all yours PLEASE call Kris at 4-2005. 
VERY IMPORTANT! 
HELPIII RIDE NEEDED ... MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OH) APRIL 2 ...WILL DONATE$$ CALL EMILY X2922 
The Frosh 4+1 One-Acts Continues... APPROACHING LAVENDAR Tues. Mar 30 7pm LaF Ballroom ITS FREE!!! Ill 
PEACEFEST IS COMING!!!!! PEACEFEST IS COMING I!!!! APRIL 7TH 
LOOK FOR MORE INFO ......... 
LOST!! Pr. of glasses in blue case after Morissey Film Fest. If found, call Becky X1258. 
Top Quotes from Pittsburgh Airport (finally!) 
1. 
What's occasional denial? 

2. 
Penis Attention 

3. 
He's like this and you're like this and ... 

4. 
Today"s women aren't content to remain on their backs! 

5. 
I'm like a seal. I'm like a freaking pet! 

6. 
Mark. I got it up higher than you did I 

7. 
I'll lick you a buck fifteen 



Classifieds 


minor league camp for reassignment. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE NHL Scoring Leaders PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Sent Kevin
w L Pet. Atlantic Division Patrick Division Player, Team GP G A PTS PIM New York 17 9 .654 w L Pet. GB w L T Pis GF GA Lemieux, Pgh 52 56 83 139 32 
Stocker, shortstop, and Mike Uoborthal, Baltimore 13 8 .619 catcher, to their minor league camp for
x-NewYork 47 20 .701 x-Pittsburgh 49 21 6 104317 242 LaFontaine, Buf 75 50 88 138 59 Chicago 16 10 .615 reassignment. Optioned Kyle Abbott,
Boston 41 28 .594 7 Washington 38 30 7 83 300 265 Yzerman, Del 78 54 73 127 42 Milwaukee 14 10 .583 New Jersey 40 29 .580 8 New Jersey 38 32 6 82 280 264 Oates, 8os 76 43 84 127 32 pitcher, to Scranton Wilkes-Barre of the Minnesota International League . 
14 10 . 583 Orlando 32 34 .485 14 1/2 NY Rangers 33 3111 77 284 274 Gilmour, Tor 76 31 90 121 94 Texas 13 13 .500 Miami 30 37 .448 17 NY Islanders 35 33 6 76 300 265 Mogilny, Buf 68 73 45 118 36 
SAN DIEGO PADRES-Released Kevin California 12 12 .500 Philadelphia 21 46 .313 26 Philadelphia 28 35 11 67 282 299 Turgeon, NYI 73 48 68 116 26 
Ward, outfielder, and Vicente Palacios, Cleveland 10 10 .500 Washington 19 48 .284 28 Adams Division Selanne, Wpg 76 71 44 115 43 
pitcher. Optioned Jim Pons, pitcher. to Las Vegas of tho Pacific Coast League. Placed
Oakland 12 15 .444 Central Division y-Montreal 46 25 6 98 312 254 Recchi, Pha 74 49 62 111 60 Kansas City 10 15 .400 x-Chicago 48 20 .706 y-Quebec 42 24 10 94 320 272 Robitaille, LA 75 54 53 107 94 
Bruce Hurst and Wally Whitehurst, pitchers, on the 15-dav disabled list. 
Seattle 9 14 .391 Cleveland 43 25 .632 5 y-Boslon 43 26 7 93 297 257 Stevens, Pgh 66 53 49 102 161 HOCKEYToronto 9 15 .375 Atlanta 37 32 .536 11 1/2 y-Buffalo 37 28 10 84 314 263 Sundin, Que 72 41 61 102 90 National Hockey LeagueBoston 9 17 .346 Charlotte 35 34 .507 131/2 Hartford 22 47 5 49 246 326 Sakic, Quo 70 45 53 98 36 WASHINGTON CAPITALS-AnnouncedDetroit 4 19 .174 Indiana 33 35 .485 15 Ottawa 9 62 4 22 181 352 Bure, Van 75 55 42 97 55 a one-year working agreement withNATIONAL LEAGUE Detroit 31 36 .463 161/2 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Hull, SIL 73 50 45 95 37 Portland of tho American Hockey League. 
w L Pet. Milwaukee 26 42 .382 22 Norris Division Roenick, Chi 76 41 54 95 80 COLLEGECincinnati 15 6 .714 WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pis GF GA Juneau, 8os 76 29 66 95 33 
ALBRIGHT-Named Kevin Kiesel
Philadelphia 13 8 .619 Midwest Division y-Chicago 42 24 10 94 254 209 Janney, StL 76 19 76 95 10 football coach. 
Chicago 15 11 .577 w L Pet. GB y-Detroit 42 28 9 93 341 269 Androychuk, Tor 75 52 42 94 54 BOSTON COLLEGE-Announced theColorado 15 11 .577 x-Houston 44 25 .638 y-Toronto 41 25 10 92 271 217 Damphousse, Mtl 77 37 57 94 90 resignation of Margo Plotzko, women'sAtlanta 13 10 .565 San Antonio 42 25 .627 1 St. Louis 35 32 9 79 255 250 Muller, Mtl 74 36 55 91 73 basketball coach, in order to become anMontreal 11 9 .550 Utah 40 29 .580 4 Minnesota 33 33 10 76 251 266 Tocchet, Pgh 72 41 49 90 223 assistant to tho athletic director. 
Pittsburgh 12 12 .500 Denver 28 40 .412 151/2 Tampa Bay 22 49 5 49 222 294 Modano, Min 74 33 57 90 81 COLGATE-Named Todd Williams andHouston 11 11 .500 Minnesota 16 51 .239 27 Smythe Division Fleury, Cal 75 30 59 89 82 Gary Comstock assistant football coaches. 
Los Angeles 11 11 .500 Dallas 7 61 .103 361/2 y-Vancouver 39 27 9 67 304 242 Francis, Pgh 76 20 69 89 66 DREXEL-Extended tho contract of BillSan Diego 11 12 .478 Pacific Division y-Calgary 37 28 10 84 281 254 Horrion, men's basketball coach, two yearsSt.Louis 10 12 .455 x-Phoenix 52 15 .776 y-Los Angeles36 32 8 80 312 310 TRANSACTIONS through tho 1996-97 season. 
Florida 11 13 .458 x-Seattlo 47 22 .681 6 y-Winnipeg 34 35 7 75 282 290 BASEBALL TEXAS WOMAN'S-Announced thoNew York 11 13 .458 Portland 41 26 .612 11 Edmonton 25 44 8 58 220 305 American League resignation of Kaycee Crump, basketballSan Francisco 10 15 .400 LA Lakers 34 33 .507 18 San Jose 10 65 2 22 197 384 Monday's Games LA Clippers 33 36 .478 20 x-clinched division title 
BOSTON RED SOX-Waived Daryl coach. Toronto 3, Kansas City 0 Golden Slate 28 40 .412 24 1/2 y-clinched playoff berth BOX SCORES ,
Irvine, pitcher, for tho purpose of giving him Los Angeles 12, Atlanta 8. Sacramento 21 47 .309 311/2 Sunday's Games 
his unconditional release. Sent Jim Byrd, shortstop, Grog Blosser, outfielder; Chao
Baltimore 11, Texas 5 x-clinched playoff berth. Pittsburgh 4, Washington 1 NIT Glance Pittsburgh 4, Red Sox 2. Sunday's Games Los Angeles 3, Winnipeg 3, tie 
Garcia, infielder; and John Flaherty, catcher GEORGETOWN 45, UAB 41to their minor league for reassignment.
Philadelphia 6, St. Louis 0 Phoenix 11 0, Philadelphia 1 00 Buffalo 3, Ottawa 1 
GEORGETOWN (20-12)Cleveland 9, Houston 6 Portland 121, Charlotte 114 Quebec 3, New York Rangers 2 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Waived Shawn Churchwell 3-7 2-2 8, Spencer 4~ 0-0 8,New York Mats 4, Montreal3 Boston 114, Washington 113 Toronto 4, Calgary 0 Abner, outfielder, for tho purpose of giving Harrington 3-5 5-5 11, Brown 1-3 2-2 4,him his unconditional release. 
Tuesday's Gamss Detroit 91, Cleveland 78 Chicago 3, Hartford 0 Jacques 3~ 0-0 8, Micoud 1-4 4-5 6, Millen
Florida vs. Montreal at West Palm Beach, Minnesota 101, Houston 100 Monday's Games KANSAS CITY ROYAL~ Dennis 0-0 0-0 0, Harrell 0-0 0-0 0, Reid 0-0 0-0 0, Fla., 1:05 p.m. Rasmussen, pitcher, on tho 15-day
Sen Antonio 114, Dallas 1 07 New Jersey 5, San Jose 0 Church 0-t 0-0 0, Morgan 0-1 0-0 0. TotalsKansas City vs. Houston at Kissimmee, New York 94, Golden State 84 Los Angeles 9, Detroit 3 disabled list. 
15-3313-14 45. 

Fla., 1:05 p.m. OAKlAND ATHLETICS-Claimed Scott
LA Lakers 92, Indiana 90 Tuesday's Games UAB (20-14) Cincinnati vs. Cleveland at Winter Haven, Monday's Games Boston at Hartford, 7:40 p.m. Hemond, catcher, off waivers from tho Haywood 0-4 0-0 0, Shannon 4-12 0-0 10, Fla., 1:05 p.m. Late Games Not Included Buffalo at Washington, 7:40p.m. Chicago White Sox. 
Chapman 1-1 0-1 2, C.Jackson 4-8 2-2 10,Toronto vs. Philadelphia at Clearwater, Boston I 1 0, Sacramento 89 Philadelphia at New York Islanders, 7:40 National League S.Jackson4-131-211, Trash 1-34~6.
Fla.,1:05p.m. p.m. CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms
Atlanta 127, Portland 118, OT Allen 0-0 0-0 0, Long 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 15­St. Louis vs. Pittsburgh at Bradenton, Fla., Washington at Milwaukee, (n) Ottawa at Pittsburgh, 7:40p.m. with Jeff Reardon, pitcher, and Randy 43 7-11 41. 

1:05p.m. Denver at Utah, (n) Vancouver at St. Louis, 8:40 p.m. Milligan, first baseman, on one-year Halftim&-UAB 24, Georgetown 14. 3­Minnesota vs. Boston at Fort Myers, Fla., Tuesday's Games Winnipeg at Calgary, 9:40p.m. contracts. Optioned Gary Scott, infielder, to Point goals-Georgetown 2-7 (Jacques 2­Indianapolis of the American Association. 
1:05p.m. Sacramento at New York, 7:30 p.m. Wednesday's Games 2, Brown 0-1, Morgan 0-1, Micoud 0-3), California vs. Milwaukee at Chandler, Ariz., Philadelphia at Now Jersey, 7:30p.m. New Jersey at Buffalo, 7:40p.m. HOUSTON ASTROS-Placod Rob UAB 4-11 (Shannon 2-4, S.Jackson 2~.
Mallicoat and Tom Edens, pitchers, on tho3:05p.m. Detroit at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Quebec at Montreal, 7:40p.m. 
Long 0-1). Fouled out-Jacques.
Colorado vs. Oakland at Phoenix, 3:05 Miami at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Los Angeles at Toronto, 7:40p.m. 15-day disabled list, Mallicoat retroactive to Rebounds-Georgetown 25 (ChurchwellMarch 26. 
p.m. Phoenix at Chicago, 8 p.m. Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:40 p.m. 
6), UAB 25 (Haywood 6). Assists­Seattle vs. Sen Diego at Yuma, Ariz., 3:05 Seattle at Sen Antonio, 8:30p.m. LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Traded Georgetown 11 (Brown 6), UAB 10 p.m. David Fitzpatrick, pitcher, to tho Chicago
LA Lakors at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
(C.Jackson 4). Total fouls-Georgetown 15,Sen Francisco vs. Chicago Cubs at Mesa, White Sox for Greq Perschke, pitcher. 
Minnesota at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. UAB 17. A-NA 
Ariz., 3:05 p.m. M 0 NT R E A L EXPOS-Released Detroit vs. Baltimore at St. Petersburg, Franklin Stubbs, first baseman, from his 



---~-------~­
Tuesday, March 30, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 16 
we can play that way and still win." 
Sophomore goalie Ryan Jewell, the spark of the Hobart game, started in goal for the Irish and easily handled the majority of shots that the Bull­dogs were able to unleash against him. 
Except for one lapse at the end of the first half. the defense played very well by riding hard, scooping up ground balls, and pushing the transition game 

. ~:B~6ri:;st: ·x,_,,,,,:%ti1tt~;~ 
13 ::~:M@Ifjhd )'('''"·, ·'· 14 Nbtre Dame 
15 
16 . 17 Yale 
18 
19 
20 
given three years probation, a two-year ban from postseason
OJ-You have books? 

tournaments. a one-year ban 
from television and limitations 
on scholarships. 

when the opportunities presented themselves. 

Kentucky returns to its glory days
It was precisely on these fast­

breaks that the Irish defensive line picked up three points on the afternoon. 
In the first quarter, junior Pete Senger made a long run into the Butler zone, and after a nice give and go from Randy Colley, scored his first goal of the season. 
Fellow defensemen Mike Iorio and Billy Gallagher, both sopho­mores, assisted on goals in the game, providing a nice com­pliment to both the midfield and the offense. 
Being part of transitions was "something we thought about at the beginning of the year", said Gallagher. "The coaches stressed to us the importance of being more offensive minded and being part of the break." 
"Transitions are when you get most of your points, so it's good when the defense pushes the ball," Corrigan added. 
Because the Irish got out to such a large lead early in the game, it gave the coaches a good opportunity to play the second and third lines and get them game experience. 
These younger players responded well by tacking on nine more goals in the second half, and were led by junior attacker Mark Hexamer and senior midfielder Tom Carroll who each tallied three points on two goals and an assist. 
Notre Dame's domination of Butler was complete in every aspect of the game as the Irish led in the key statistics of ground balls and faceoffs won. 
Senior Chip Lonsdale won 16 out of his 19 faceoffs in the game, continuing his dom­inance of opponent faceofT men after a season that saw him set the Notre Dame record with 219 faceoffs won. 
"We've come back in a hurry," said Bill Kightley, Kentucky's equipment manager since 1962. "It doesn't take a lot to excite me, but this might be the epitome of excitement." 
Kightley points to one person as the reason for the Wildcats' turnaround -coach Rick Pitino, who took over after Ed­die Sutton quit in March 1989. 

"We were very fortunate to get a coach who's a hard worker who doesn't stand for anything but success," Kightley said. "You don't get this kind of success unless you're a hard worker. Rick gets out and works for this." 
In 1990, with only eight play­ers on scholarship, Pitino led Kentucky to a 14-14 record and fourth place in the Southeast­ern Conference. That year, Kentucky lost its status as the winningest college basketball team. The Wildcats have 1,560 wins, second to North Carolina's 1,568. 
Kentucky improved to 22-6 in 1991. Last year the Wildcats went 29-7, losing to Duke on Christian Laettner's last-second overtime shot in the East Re­gional championship. 

U.S. Rep. Scotty Baesler, who played for Kentucky from 1962­63, said it's Pitino's leadership that has turned the Wildcats into one of the country's best teams. 
"I think his style fits the '90s pretty well," said Baesler, now a freshman in Congress and a former Lexington mayor. "He obviously motivates the players even beyond their ability." 
Ledford said he still finds it hard to believe Kentucky has regained prominence this quickly. 
"I think the man has done just an incredible job," he said of Pitino. "It's almost beyond belief." 
Happy Birthday from your homies X2C, Pervert, }abba, Hormone, Nutty and the rest of the GNP Possee! 
Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -Just four years ago, Kentucky's basketball program was in trouble. After their first losing season in more than 60 years, the Wildcats were facing the prospect of stiff NCAA sanc­tions. 
Now the Wildcats are back in the Final Four. Did anyone think the program would be restored this soon? 
"Lord no," said Cawood Led­ford, Kentucky's play-by-play announcer for 39 years. "Not this soon. I thought it would be four or five years until they were respectable." 
Kentucky will compete in its first Final Four since 1984 on Saturday night when it plays Micl:tigan in New Orleans. The Wildcats clinched the Southeast regional title during the week­end with a 106-81 victory against Florida State. 
Ledford, who retired from announcing last year, was with the Wildcats during the good years -two of Kentucky's five championships in 1958 and 1978. And he was with them for that one lean season in 1989. 
"It was just a miserable, mis­erable year," said Ledford, who hasn't decided if he will travel to New Orleans to watch Kentucky play. "It was the only rotten year in my 39 years. They didn't play well. They had no interest to play." 
The Wildcats went 13-19 that season, their worst record since 1926-27 and Kentucky's losses ever. Kentucky's six defeats in Rupp Arena also were a high. 
In May 1990, NCAA officials considered banning Kentucky's basketball program. Instead, the Wildcats were 
Casting & Angling 
Wednesdays, 6:00 -7:30pm. March 31, April7, 14, 21, & 28 

Conducted by Dan Bucha Certified Casting Association Instructor 
Classes held in JACC, Rolfs, and Campus Lakes $8.00 class fee includes equipment Call RecSports at 631-6100 for more information 
Photo courtesy of Kentucky Sports Info Jamal Mashburn has been one of the main reasons for Kentucky's return to greatness. 
Don't Break Parietals 
becuase you could get in a lot of trouble 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
Iowa, OSU ready for Atlanta 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) ­Three cheers for the Big Ten Conference. OK, maybe just two 
one for each of the league's teams in the NCAA women's Final Four. 
After going the first 11 years of NCAA women's basketball without getting a team in the Final Four, the Big Ten now has half the field. And one is certain to be in the championship game. 
Third-ranked Ohio State and No. 4 Iowa, the league's co­champions, will meet in the national semifinals at The Omni in Atlanta on Saturday. Van­derbilt plays Texas Tech in the other semifinal. with the win­ners to meet Sunday for the championship. 
"It's truly great for our con­ference," Ohio State coach Nancy Darsch said Monday. "It 'ust sends a message to the people of the Midwest that we do have quality basketball and hopefully a message to the rest of the country, too, that the Big Ten has finally arrived." 
It would have been difficult to make that claim earlier. 
!though Iowa and Ohio State have dominated the Big Ten ­they've won or shared all but one league title since 1981 ­neither had made much of a mark in NCAA play until now. 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
seating capacities. Previously, the grounds have been reffered to as the 'field across from Eck.' Miller pushed for new facilities, and her wish was granted. A shiny seven foot fence surrounds the well manicured field, and two spacious dugouts will keep the players away from distractions and weather. 
Besides a new complex, Miller has lured some of the top recruits in the nation to South Bend. Just a couple of years ago, the team was made up of mainly Midwesterners. Right now, the players hail from 11 different states, including four from California. 
With a great recruiting class combined with solid upper­classmen, Miller has been able to schedule some of the tough­est teams in the nation. 
So far. Notre Dame has faced seven regionally ranked teams. While we rested over spring break, the team travelled from coast to coast playing 14 games 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball XXII prelims will begin Wednesday, 
March 31. Schedules are available in the S.U.B. office In LaPortune. Let the games 
begin ... 
SportsTalk welcomes 
track sprint coach John Millar on WVFl 640 AM at 8 p.m. Tuesday March 30. Call in with questions at 631-6400. 
Mendoza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of 
Saint Mary's 
272-7510 

Both had reached the regional finals twice before losing ­Ohio State in 1985 and 1987, Iowa in 1987 and 1988. Ohio State didn't even make the NCAA tournament in 1991 and 1992, while Iowa lost its first NCAA game in each of those years. 
This year, though, both de­feated some of the big names in women's basketball to earn their trips to Atlanta. 
Iowa (27-3), seeded second in the Mideast, knocked off Old Dominion, Auburn and Ten­nessee in regional play. Those three schools have combined for 12 Final Four appearances, four national titles and four national runner­up finishes. 
Ohio State (27 -3), the top seed in the East, beat Western Ken­tucky and Virginia in its last two regional games. Each of those schools has made three Final Four appearances and both were in last year. 
"I think this says or means that our program is on par with several other programs that have been to the Final Four," said Darsch, whose team was 11-17 only two years ago. "We certainly like to think that it is the beginning, hopefully, of an era for Ohio State." 
in ten days. 

The exposure of playing away against excellent teams gave Notre Dame a chance to improve their game. 
Notre Dame softball used to be a punching bag for good teams. The Irish would provide an occassional scare to a ranked opponent, but victories were sparce. 
Miller and her squad want to change that perception. Miller personally arranged the schedule to give her team the best opportunity to make a dent on the national scene. 
For the past three weeks, the girls have worked out in Loftus, and played 16 games away from home. Today, begins a new era for Notre Dame soft­ball. 
The game has the makings of a classic. Christening a new field in the home opener, playing a good opponent, and showcasing talented players. A large crowd could put the Irish over the top. 
SMC track pleased with performance 
By BETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Although only scoring one point in Saturday's track meet at Wheaton, the Belles made a good effort and came out feel­ing confident despite the large point discrepancy. 
"We did a great job, consider­ing that we were one of the few 
Division III teams at the  meet."  
commented  coach  Larry  
Szczechowski.  

The Belles competed against Division I teams Marquette, Chicago State, Park Side Uni­versity, and Division II teams Wheaton and Triton to name a few. 
"It was a tough first outdoor meet because it was against difficult teams, but I think that we did welL" said co-captain Cheryl Fortunak. 
Placing sixth in the triple jump, with a 30' 10 1/4" jump, Joann Weed was the sole scorer for the Belles. 
''I'm just glad that I could contribute and that we could score against these powerful teams," noted Weed. 
Kerri McKinley tied her per­sonal record in the long jump with a 12'2" jump and beat her personal record with a 25'10" triple jump, however she sprained her ankle while at­tempting the triple jump. 
"Kerri has come a long way," said Szczechowski, "hopefully her injury will not hold her back for too long." 
"We had a lot of team support which was evident when I hurt myself." commented McKinley. "Even though track is an indi­vidual sport, we perform excep­tionally well as a team." 
The Belles made a decent showing in the javelin event considering that it was a first for all of the participants. Amy Mertz made the finals with a 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
BORN YESTERDAY lPG) 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
POINT OF No RETURN (R) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

IRISH 
ACCENT 
Notre Dame's 
Comedy lmprov Troupe 
SHOW 
Wednesday, March 31 9:00 p.m. at Theodore's Opening Act: Little Milton 
Admission: $1 
72'10" throw. peted did so well. We did a good "I thought that we did a great job considering the competi­job at this meet. All who com-tion." said coach Szczechowski. 
The ObseiVer/Sean Farnan 
Joann Weed scored the lone Saint Mary's point last weekend. 
THE PARALEGAL OPTION 
You don't have to go to law school to enjoy a professional legal career. If you have a bachelor's degree, you may be eligible to earn the Certificate in Paralegal Studies offered by Loyola University Chicago and approved by the American Bar Association. To learn more, call Loyola's Institute for Paralegal Studies: 708-853-3070. 
Loyola Unive"iry Chicago
WYOlA 
Mallinckrodt Campus Institute for Paral<g>l Studies
E; •.I ~ UNIVERSITY 
I04 I Ridge Roadi:: · ;: CHICAGO Wilmette, IU,()()<)I 
2:: s
0 0
~~.11H><i.\: 

Luyob ";an equal opponunuy rmployrrlni~Kalor 
Wurld's Smallest Circle Y when you agree, M for Pulitical Qui: Maybe or unsure, N for No. 
Are you a self-governor on Personal issues? ......... 20 10 0 
•Military 
service should be voluntary. (No draft) ........................ Y M N 

•Govt. 
should not control radio, TV or the press........................ y M N 

• 
Repeal regulations on sex by consenting adults......................... y M N 

• 
Drug laws do more harm than good. Repeal them..................... y M N 

• 
Let people immigrate and emigrate freely.................................. y M N 


MY PERsoNAL SELHJOVERNOR SCORE: ADD 20 FOR Y. 10 Klll M. 0 FOR N. 
I f-­
Are you a self-governor on Economic ~ssues? ....... 
• 
Businesses & farms should operate without govt. subsidies........ y M N 

• 
People are better off with free trade than with tariffs................. Y M N 

• 
Minimum wage laws cause unemployment. Repeal them.......... y M N 

• 
End taxes. Pay for services with user fees.................................... y M N 

• 
Europe and Japan should provide their own defense.................. y M N 


Mark your personal score on the left and your economic score on the right. (See example of 20% personal and 10% economic.) Then follow the grid lines until they meet at your political identity. For an information kit about libertarian ideas, write: Libertarian Party 1528 Pennsylvania Ave., SE Washington, OC 20003 1-800-682-1776 
©1988 by Advocates for Self-Government, Inc. 
What is the Libertarian Party? The Libertarian Party is the third-largest and fastest-growing political party in the United States. Over 100 Libertarians hold elective or appointive public office. Libertarian Party members participate in a variety of educational and political activities aimed at restoring America's commitment to free enterprise and civil liberties. The Libertarian Party is proud of the progress it has made during its short history, against what many saw as insurmountable odds. 
289-2823 

Today 
Tuesday, March 30, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON ~'E.LlO, COUI'\T'I LIBRr>.Ri? 
1-lt.L.La? 'IE'S, I NEED fl., 

R~F~RENct D(SK, PL£A5E 
BooK ON PAINTING TI\EClR'( 
T\-\f>..i'IK 'ICl\J. 
AN\) "IT:C\\ ~1()\J£ . 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Postal-creed 58 Famous dying word words

1 Tin Pan Alley 30 Stowe girl 59 Feed-baggp. 
contents33 Springfield, for 6 Moccasins one 60 Picasso's prop10Swindle 37 Sector 63 Seed coat14 Diva Mitchell 381nclined 64 Naldi of silents 15 Jacob's twin 40Queued up • 65 Dunne or16 Woody's boy Bordoni41 San Diego 17 Trite 

66 Isinglass18 Bring home the player &7 Over again 43 Albee drama bacon 45 Part of E.T.A. 68 Former Attorney t:;:;-+--+--1-­11 Soaks flax 
General 20 Insignificant 47 Meat cut things 48 Hudson or DOWN
23 "Gin a body Essex -...":Burns 49 Blake and 
1 Vestment 24 Stonework Plummer 
2RedorDead 25 Pro's opposite 53 Reedy 
3Gave 26 Eban of Israel 55 Certain boxers permission 
4 "What's in 
-?" 
5 Velar &Rind TP.D.Q. a Ricochet tSummer 25 Show approval 46 A 1927 song hit 54 Gape

tiiJW.)ililli. 

acquisition 27 Borscht base 49 In a nautical 56 Kitchen 
8~::flll~ 10 Re men's 
position attachmentclothes 28Serve so Mother: Comb. 57 What "vidi" 

r.:-t::::-t-:+.:::-+=-4 11 Brother of 31 Large arachnid 

form means ~.:..:+:=+=~~ ...;.~.:..:..J.::..&,;,;, Jocasta 32 Part of A.D. 
51 Ludicrous 61 U.S.N.A. grad. 
12 Do tailoring 34Astew 52 Beau 62 Grant or Remick 13 Antiquated 

35 Union unit 
21 Designate, in a 
36 Pitcher 
~~~~~~~~ way 

39 Evening up Get answers to any three clues ~4"-+=-1 22 Hebrew lyre 42 "Ring" goddess by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·
..;:;+.=-+:,-+=! 23 Ballerina 

Shearer 44 Disneyland site 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0216 

' 
.. 

,___________ 
page 16 

Tuesday, March 30, 1993 
Sports 

Irish lacrosse in seventh heaven with 22-11 win 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE was never threatened by a Sports Writer scrappy but outgunned Bulldog team. "Even though the game 
It's always diffieult for a team was easier than I expected, I that is coming off an emotion­have a tremendous amount of ally draining victory to return respect for Butler because to the field two days later and they're a very young team that perform at the same level and hustled the entire game and intensity. The 14th-ranked never gave up," said Coach Notre Dame laerosse team (7-Kevin Corrigan. 0), however, played up to their "They're a young team, and ranking by dismantling an their coaeh evidently didn't feel outmanned Butler Bulldog comfortable playing pressure, squad 22-11 Monday afternoon so they let us work the ball at Moose Krause Stadium. around the perimeter and 
"It's tough coming off an establish our offense," com­emotional high, yet we came mented sophomore midfielder out strong in the first quarter Kevin Lynyak. and kept up the intensity all The Irish never faced a con­
game long," said junior mid­certed defensive effort from fielder Billy Ahmuty. Butler and were able to push 
The Irish showed little sign of their lead to 13-4 at halftime. a letdown as a result of their Freshman midfielder Brian Er­15-14 overtime victory over ickson netted two goals in the Hobart on Saturday, as junior second quarter to compliment midfielder Willie Sutton opened his first quarter score, fresh­the scoring two minutes into man attacker Kevin Mahoney the game with an unassisted scored his second goal, and goal. Before Butler knew what Colley and Snyder added goals had hit them, six other Irish as the Irish dominated the ac­players had tallied goals in the tion by keeping the ball pinned period with junior attackers in the Butler zone. Randy Colley and Hobbie Sny­"Our execution was extremely der racking up a goal and an good in the first half," said assist apiece. Corrigan, "but we lacked the 
At the end of the first quarter, emotion that we showed this The Sean Notre Dame had opened up a weekend. Yet it is good to know comfortable 7-2 margin and 
see LACROSSE/ page 13 
Women's golf finishes
Miller to make home debut, as
DOMINIC 
AMOROSA 

seventh at Lady Topper
Notre Dame softball faces IU 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Upon Further 
Associate Sports Editor 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 3 P.M. doubleheader against Indiana.
Review 

«''Jlt The Irish (9-7) come home after a rain 
Senior captain Kathy Phares fired a first­shortened weekend in Hock Hill S.C. at round 74 to lead the Notre Dame women'sNew stadium boosts The Notre Dame softball team opens the Winthrop Invitational. 
golf team to a seventh-place finish in the 
their home season this afternoon with a Hain has been a thorn in the sides of 
Lady Topper Invitational in Bowling Green, softball's stature the Irish all season. Three games and a 
Ky., over the weekend. Throughout the past year, there have tournament have already been can­
Phares' remarkable first-round been numerous construction project celled. 
performance was the second-best 18-hole completed around campus. One of th Today's first game will showcase the 
round ever in Notre Dame women's golf less publicized projects involves the ne 
history, and it catapulted the Irish into fifth softball complex located across from the 
talents of freshman pitcher Terri 

place after the first day, but the Irish were Eck Pavilion. 
Kobata. Kobata has a 3-2 record, but not able to hold on the rest of the way.

has held opponents to a measly .155
The complex is the first sports facilit Phares' finished tied for fourth in the overall batting average. 

at Notre Dame devoted entirely to individual standings, posting a two-day score"Terri's pitched very well," said coachwomen's sport. 

of 156. 
Liz Miller. "She gives our team anotherThe sports marketing department ha 
dimension."
organized a name picking contest, an 

"Kathy really played great the first day," the announcement will be made today. 
On the mound in the second game will said sophomore Katie Shannon, who finished 

Also, spectators in attendance wil be senior Carri Miller. Miller has a 2-2 
second on the team with a two-round seore receive Notre Dame softball squeeze record, but boasts a 1.28 earned run 
of 165, shooting an 80 the first day. bottles. average. 
"Unfortunately, none of us played well This season culminates Notre Dame' In their last game, an 8-0 romp over 
enough to help her out. procession to the big time. In 1989. afte 
"We thought we would do a little better," 12 years of club softball, the athletic de­Mercer University, the Irish finally 
added Shannon. partment made softball a Division I 
started hitting. Sophomore Sara Hayes 

The meet was captured by Northern
leads the team in hits and HBI's with 15 
sport. Former coach Brian Boulac 

Illinois, who used scores of 151 and 155and 9 respectively. 
presided over the transition and the 

from Shelley Wendels and Karen BrombergOther leaders include junior Stephanie team was successful playing agains to post a two-day team score of 625, winning 
Pinter (.256). and junior Christy
small regional competition for the pas by two points over Wisconsin.

Connoyer (.255). 
four years. 

Junior Alicia Murray finished third for theOthers to watch for the Irish includeThis year, with first year coach Li 
Irish, improving her career 85.76 stroke Miller at the helm, the Irish will try to sophomore Andrea Keys, and seniors 
average with a 167 for the two days. take a step up the ladder in the race fo Lisa Miller, Casey McMurray and Honny 
Freshman Julie Melby, who led the Irish at the national championship. Miller bring Alvarez. 
the Northern Snowbird meet in March, also the program instant recognition. Her Indiana comes into the game with a 9­
finished with a 167, rebounding with an 80 541-143 career softball record and 5 record. Some of their key players 
on the second day. hands on approach to her ballclub has 
Junior Crissy Klein, who finished sixth at already produced significant results. 
include third baseman Margaret 

the Ferris State Invitational, ended up fifthHaenisch, shortstop Karen Kron and
• 
The major result of her input involves on the team with a two-day score of 180. 

Ann Tuttle. Haenisch leads the Hoosiersthe new field. Before this year, the 

Next up for the Irish and coach Tom
in hitting with a .300 batting average. 
softball field had a gravel infield, 

Hanlon is the Indiana University InvitationalNotre Dame hopes to build on thetemporary fence, no dugouts, and poor The Observer/Jake Peters on April 3-4, where they will square offMercer win, while accumulating wins 
Junior attacker Robbie Snyder, shown here in Saturday's game against Hobart, contiributed two goals and an assist in yes~erday's 22-11 Notre Dame win over Butler. The 14th-ranked Irish, who are off to the best start in Notre Dame history, upped their record to 7-0. 
see SOFTBALU page 14 Christie Connoyer will start at second base. 

SAINT MARY'S TRACK 
The Belles are happy with their first outdoor meet. see page 14 
against regional competition. 
ml!l~miD~ SPORTS 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Ohio State and Iowa prepare to represent the Big 


Ten at the Final Four. 
NCA~WQMlN"5 
see page 14 
FIHRLFOUR. 
ATtANTA !Hl 

against a number of Big Ten schools. 
1993NCAA 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rick Pitino has led Kentucky back to its past glory. 
see page 13 





