The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 70 THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. leads aerial attack on Iraqi missile batteries 

UNITED NATIONS (AP)-Iraq "I think it's really sad that on Wednesday condemned a people are resorting to military U.S.-Ied aerial attack on its action. It's very uncivilized," missile batteries as "very Hamdoon told reporters at uncivilized" and offered new Iraq's U.N. mission. concessions to the United Na­Hamdoon's comments were tions. the Iraqi government's first of­
Iraq's U.N. ambassador, Nizar ficial reaction to the raids, in llamdoon, said his government which dozens of American and rejected President Bush's allied aircraft targeted surface­charge that Baghdad had been to-air missiles in southern Iraq. violating U.N. Security Council The attack finally put into ac­resolutions. tion words of warnings from the 
Second American is hurt in Somalia 
MOGADISIIU, Somalia (AP) ­Stung by bold Somali attacks that inflicted the first two American military casualties, 
U.S. forces killed one gunman Wednesday as edgy Marines patrolled lawless Mogadishu in tho hunt for weapons. 
A Somali sniper fired three shots at a Marine patrol wounding a U.S. Navy medic Wednesday afternoon, less than a day after a Marine was killed in a firelight near the airport. 
Later. Marines searching for a weapons cache inside a build­ing near the national theater shot to death a Somali who threatened them with a heavy machine gun. 
Automatic weapons fire crackled on the streets of the capital Wednesday night. 
At checkpoints, Marines ap­peared more nervous and im­posed stricter security. Some directed anger at Somalis. 
"A lot of people aren't going to like Somalis even though some are innocent," said Lance Cpl. Jesse De Guzman, 21. of San Jose. Calif. "You start looking at them differently. It just gets you mad inside. but you have to hold it in." 
Marine Col. Michael Hagee said at a news conference that the casualties would not cause any changes in military opera­tions. He said U.S. forces would continue to step up their patrols and hunts for weapons. 
"Because we have reduced the number of weapons on the street we have put some of these militia individuals out of business. They are no longer able to extort on their security rackets," Hagee said. "It's still a dangerous place, but based on when we came ashore a little over 30 days ago it is a much safer place." 
The first Marines landed Dec. 9 to start an international operation to end two years of clan fighting and banditry and get food to Somalia's famine­stricken people. Army Lt. Col. Steve Ritter said more than 33,000 soldiers from 20 nations are in Somalia, including 22,000 Americans. 
Hagee said it was too early to tell if the attacks that inflicted the American casualties repre­sented any kind of organized resistance by the Somalis. 
The Tuesday night ambush that killed Marine Pfc. Domingo Arroyo, 21, of Elizabeth, N.J., and the sniper attack that wounded the medic followed the most ambitious American effort to disarm Somalis in Mo­gadishu. 
Since Sunday, Marines have 
see SOMALIA I page 4 

The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 
Budding talent 
Notre Dame sophomores Erin O'Malley, Mike Kersey and Stacey Stewart audition yesterday for "The Heidi Chronicles," a play which the ND Communication and Theatre department will present. 
Ambassador Yoshio Hatano of Japan. 
It was not immediately clear if the offer was made to try to stave off the U.S.-led military attack on Iraq. 
U.S. sources said the deputy American U.N. ambassador, Edward Walker Jr., delivered a letter Wednesday to Hatano re­porting that an allied attack was underway. 
• Clinton support/ page 5 
U.N. Secunty Councll that Iraq must stop violating Gulf War cease-fire terms or face "serious consequences." 
Baghdad has contended it was cooperating with the Security Council and in a letter delivered Tuesday had offered "dialogue with the council and with all who so desire" to solve problems. 
Earlier Wednesday, an Arab source said the Baghdad gov­ernment offered to stop raiding a former Iraqi navy base in Kuwait. 
The source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Hamdoon had made the offer in a telephone call to the president of the Security Council, 

By ELIZABETH QUINLAN 
News Writer 
The Hispanic Law Student Association (HLSA) of the Notre Dame Law School has estab­lished a new "Hispanic Educa­tion Fund" to be donated to re­gional charities that focus on the educational problems facing Hispanic youths. 
The fund was initiated by HLSA president, Carlos Cancel, who had become alarmed by a New York Times article report­ing a 45 percent school dropout rate for Hispanics. One of the aims of HLSA is to help alleviate some problems met by the His­panic community at large. 
Cancel got the idea for raising money after running in the New York City Marathon in November. While competing, Cancel wore a Puerto Rican flag and experienced "a tremendous amount of support and a strong feeling of community" among Hispanics in the city. 
He saw other people running for charity in the marathon and resolved to make this his method for raising money. Cancel plans to participate in the London Marathon, a major international marathon, on April 18. 
HLSA hopes to raise major funding for the cause through pledges and corporate spon­sorship. In addition to their goal of raising $5,000-10,000 and dividing it among charities in the cities of New York, Mi­ami, and Los Angeles, they hope to increase community awareness of the plight of His­panic youth, Cancel said. 
Cancel, who is from Brooklyn, said he feels fortunate to have had such opportunities. He .said, "I could've easily been one see FUNDS/ page 4 
Iraq's ability to retaliate is limited 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Sad­dam Hussein's ability to retali­ate militarily against an Allied air strike is extremely limited. 
But, as the 1990 invasion of Kuwait showed, Saddam is ca­pable of anything and as often as not flies in the face of ortho­dox military thinking -usually with catastrophic results. 
He has few military assets ca-
News analysis 

pable of penetrating the U.S.­led allies' defenses in the Per­sian Gulf in order to hit their naval and air forces, although he could well lash out if he feels he is cornered. 
One factor likely to inhibit Baghdad is that any significant attempt to retaliate against the allies risks escalating the con­frontation and provoking an even heavier allied response. 
Saddam retains sizeable arse­nals of anti-aircraft missiles and, Western officials believe, possibly as many as 150 Scud­type surface-to-surface mis­siles. 
Militarily, Saddam is in no po­sition to take on the Americans and their allies again after his forces were severely mauled in the 1991 GulfWar. 
For one thing, an Iraqi mili­tary response would expose the military and economic infras­tructure the Iraqis have so painstakingly -and proudly ­rebuilt since Allied warplanes and missiles flattened it during the war. 
But, faced with a worsening economic squeeze because of 2 1/2 years of U.N. sanctions, the Iraqi leader may be seeking a diversion to rally Iraqis behind his beleaguered regime. 
Saddam may also be hoping to exploit divisions within the wartime coalition that Bush stitched together to liberate Kuwait. 
The Arab allies, in particular, fear that further pressure on Baghdad could lead to the disintegration of Iraq, with its volatile ethnic mix. 
Saddam could try to knock down some allied aircraft to avenge the MiG-25 shot down Dec. 27 by a U.S. F-16 over the "no-fly zone" imposed last Au­gust on southern Iraq. 
His air defenses, which ac­counted for nearly all the 41 al­lied warplanes lost in the Per­sian Gulf conflict, remain po­tent despite war damage. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Exploitation of 
Fisher story 



hides 'truth' 
While only some states 
got snow over the 
holidays, the entire nation 
was blitzed by CBS, NBC, 
and ABC. Maybe you were 
as unfortunate as I was to 
stumble on one of the 
episodes between Very Fat Anna Marie 
Men and the Luscious Tabor 
Babes Who Love Them . . 
and the all-star line-up of Saint Mary 5 Editor 
the weirdest people who 
have appeared on 
Geraldo. Every channel, every headline, every 
tip from the criminal's cell promised to give the 
true account of Amy Fisher's crime of passion. 
Who cares? Apparently, most of America does. This is the first time in my career that I've been ashamed of my association with the media. So a sixteen year-old girl from Long Island shoots the wife of her alleged middle-aged lover. Tell the story and get on with it. Admittedly, tormented teens do not ordinarily take such extreme measures. And sensationalists preyed on this. 
The three major networks presented versions of the three-sided story-his, hers, and the truth. Guess which side no one will ever know? Quite possibly even the courts will never extract a completely accurate account from either Amy or Joey. I expect the contradictions to continue under oath, as they often do. 
The media seized this opportunity to let Americans exercise their right to exploit themselves, and make mucho dinero doing it. 0 course the network will close the books on this story with a fat wallet as well. What good does this do the viewing public, besides further outrage us about the injustices of society and gawk at the habits of a promiscuous teenager? 
Leonard, a lawyer in Dallas, could not comment on the details of the case. He has avoided the TV specials like a plague, saying that they are not accurate and satisfy a sad entertainment need rather than present a real legal matter. The only way someone can get a story closer to the truth is to be involved directly with the case. Otherwise, this was yet another viewer opportunity to point fingers. 
One need only see sessions with pistol-toting Amy, the real victim, Mary Jo, and her faithful husband, Joey, to recognize the absurdity o these made-for-TV movies. Amy's hair is not so frizzy in real life, and Joe is in reality a man with plenty of girth instead of the handsome heartbreaker he is portrayed as. 
More importantly, the media has screwed-up priorities. The incessant focus on Amy the Prostitute has cast Joey the Slime and Mary Jo the Victim into the shadows. Every attempt to incriminate Joe for what liaison I believe he had, has in fact acquitted him by supportive and trusting "I know Joey Buttafuoco!"s from his wife. TV has created a monster teenager who developed a fantasy affair with a married man. The only real fact is that an innocent woman got shot. You fill in the rest-that is, if TV media hasn't already done that for you. 
By now the jokes are running rampant. Amy is Saturday Night Live's "One Messed Up Bitch" and last night Arsenio pitied Joey Buttafuoco for not being able to get into the under-age strip ·oint "Lollipop." 
In light of how sensationally the story has been handled, that's all there is left to do. Laugh. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
News  Sports  
Sandy  Rolando de Aguiar  
Bevin  
Production  
Systems  Kathy Fong  
Matt Carbone  Jeanne Blasi  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1993 
with a chance 
\ of flurries and highs the mid 20s. Partly sunny Friday and high in the lower 30s. 
' TEMPERATURES 
H L 
21 18 50 48 68 45 61 45 35 32 38 34 61 30 31 30 37 36 50 37 52 45 53 49 48 36 35 28 39 32 57 46 37 36 48 41 44 42 62 44 41 33 34 33 52 37 43 42 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Quayle's future: president 
•WASHINGTON -Vice Presid Dan Quayle says he will run president or nothing at all. "I am interested in running for governor any other office," Quayle said in interview published in today's a"'Tl"'"' of The Washington Post. "If I ever for public office again, it will be for president." The Quayles plan to move to Indianapolis after their children finish the school year, the vice president said. Quayle, who was a two-term senator from Indiana before being elected vice president in 1988, said he planned to stay in the public eye by making speeches and will join a small number of corporate boards. "Obviously, I'm disappointed in the election results, but, you know, public life has been exhilarating, challenging. I've loved every minute of it. 
Band members caught shoplifting 
•HOUSTON -All 29 members of a university marching band caught shoplifting $22,000 in electronics while on a trip to Tokyo have been suspended for an indefinite period or placed on probation, the school president says. "We haven't expelled any student, be­cause we don't want to put a permanent end to their education," Texas Southern University's William Harris said Tuesday. Most of the items were returned when authorities threatened to stop the students from leaving the country, Japanese police said. 1\velve band members were suspended and 17 put on probation. 

OF INTEREST 
•A Discernment group is being formed for young women interested in the religious life who have questions they would like answered. For more informa­tion call the Sisters of the Holy Cross membership office Monday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4:40 p.m. at 284-5550 and ask for Sr. Marylin Zugish, C.S.C. or Sr. Patricia Riley, C.S.C. 

MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING January 13 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 245,024,616 +.92 to 238.12 
S&P COMPOSITE +1.99 to 433.03 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS ·1.08 to 3,263.56 
GOLD ·51.20 to $327.60 oz SILVER +$.00 to $3.697 oz 


Biosphere 2 replenishes air supply 
•TUCSON, Ariz. -Biosphere 2, which billed itself as a self-sustaining ecosysltem, will get an infusion of oxygen because its eight occupants can't survive with its thinning air supply, a spokesman said. The oxygen level has dropped steadily and is down to about 15 percent, the same as at an elevation of 13,400 feet. An infusion to begin today was to raise the level to 19 percent, the same as air at a 6,400-foot elevation. The infusion was to take several days to complete. Spokesman Chris Helms said officials had determined that the four men and four women inside the prototype space colony could not function once the level dropped below 13.6 percent. 

CAMPUS ND earns honors in ICIA competition 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-Notre Dame earned second­place honors in the International Communications Industries Association's (ICIA) annual achievement awards competition for the systems and facilities design of DeBartolo Hall. In the seven years of the ICIA awards program, Notre Dame is the first university to be honored in a category other than educator of the year. A four-judge panel cited th·e "interesting integration of technology" at DeBartolo in bestowing the award. Michael Langthorne, asso<Ciate director of Educational Media at the University, will accept the award at the organization's annual convention Jan. 14-16 in New Orleans. 

•Resident 
Assistant Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs, Room 315 Main Building through January 22. The deadline for all Resident Assistant Applications andl letters of recommendation is January 25. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1966: A thousand people marched on the Georgia state Capitol in Atlanta to protes.t the ouster of African-American pacifist Julian Bond from the State House of Representatives. 

• 
In 1971: A member of the Hell's Angels gang was acquitted of a December 1969 stabbing at a Rolling Stones concert in San Francisco. 

• 
In 1980: The United Nations voted 104-18 to deplore the Soviet Union's invasion of A1ghanistan. 

• 
In 1982: Nicaragua cleclared the border regions of Honduras and Costa Rica military zones. 

• 
In 1992: Russian prosecutors charged 12 former high Soviet Union officials with conspiracy to seize power during a failed coup attempt in 1991. 




The Observer page 3 




Blue seas by spill misleading 
SUMBURGH, Shetland Islands (API -Seas around the Shetland Islands were a bril­liant blue Wednesday for the first time since an oil tanker ran aground eight days earlier. 
Conservationists, however, warned that dangerous oil tox­ins may remain from the tanker Braer, which was crippled by a hurricane Jan. 5 and broke up Tuesday in the Bay of Quendale. The stricken ship carried 24.6 million gallons of oil -more than twice the size of the Exxon Valdez disaster in Alaska. 
By dawn, the fierce weather that defeated salvagers who wanted to pump oil from the tanker had broken up the oily slick and scattered it through the ocean. 
"It is mostly gone," Geert Koffeman, of the Dutch salvage team Smit Tak, said of the cargo. "Nobody knows exactly what's left in the vessel. We're thinking that there will be some bunker (fuel) oil left in the engine and there may also be some cargo left." 
David Bedborough, of the Transport Department marine pollution control unit, said "nothing was found" in an aerial survey of 250 square miles surrounding the islands. 
While few visible signs of the disaster remained, environ­mentalists said the impact could be huge. 
Marine biologist Sian Pullen of the World Wide Fund for Nature said the oil would form a toxic cloud in Shetland wa­ters. 
Peter Ellis, director of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, said the effect of those pollutants on the abundant bird and sea life in the Shetlands is "any body's guess." 
The carcasses of nearly 800 birds, including 410 shags, three gray seals and three ot­ters already have been collected by volunteers patrolling beaches washed with an oily film. 
"Sumburgh a week ago had an internationally significant breeding population of shags," Ellis said. "It doesn't anymore." 
Judges cannot stop protestors from blocking access to abortion clinics 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal judges cannot stop protesters who try to block women's access to abortion clinics, the Supreme Court ruled Wednesday. 
The 5-4 decision, a victory for Operation Rescue and other anti-abortion protesters. means clinic operators must turn to state courts for help in thwart­ing blockades. 
But the ruling's impact may be blunted by President-elect Clinton. 
A president has the power to order federal protection without any court injunction. President Dwight Eisenhower did so when he ordered National Guard protection of students during racial-integration efforts in the 1950s. 
And federal law authorizes state officials lacking the re­sources to cope with massive lawlessness to seek federal law-enforcement help if they cannot "protect the lives and property of citizens or ... enforce the criminal law." 
The ruling does not alter the core constitutional right of abortion, reaffirmed by the court in a landmark decision last June. 
At issue, instead, was the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871 and its ban on conspiracies aimed at violating the constitutional rights of a "protected class" of people, such as blacks. 
The court, ruling in a case from Virginia, said the 1871law does not apply to those who participate in abortion block­ades because women seeking abortions are not part of such a protected class. 
"Whatever one thinks of abortion, it cannot be denied that there are common and re­
spectable reasons for opposing it, other than hatred of or con­descension toward ... women," Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the court. 
In dissent, Justice John Paul Stevens called abortion block­ades "a national conspiracy" that "presents a striking con­temporary example of the kind of zealous, politically motivated, lawless conduct that led to en­actment of the Ku Klux Klan Act." 
The decision sparked activists' reactions as starkly different as their views on abortion. 
"God be praised," said Randall Terry of Operation Rescue. "The most potent weapon the child killers had against us was the illegal use of the federal ju­diciary. That weapon was smashed to pieces." 


WE'RE OPEN TONIGHT! 
Seniors 
Come Start The Last 
Semester Off Right At 
YOUR Club 
Open 9 .. 2 must be 21 
BERLIN (AP) -An ailing Erich Honecker was freed from prison Wednesday, leaving be­hind untold bitterness over his brutal Communist East German regime that killed people simply for fleeing to the West. 
Reviled by many, pitied by others, the 80-year-old unre­pentant Communist is suffering from liver cancer that doctors say will kill him within six months. 
Berlin courts, putting mercy above justice, halted the manslaughter trial against Ho­necker for killings at the Berlin Wall. 
The former East German boss was driven to Berlin's Tegel Airport in a luxury sedan escorted by a dozen police cars with lights flashing. Curious bystanders lined the sidewalks. 
Honecker flew to Frankfurt shortly after 8:30p.m., the start of what is expected to be a more than 20-hour trip to Chile via Sao Paulo, Brazil, for a re­union with his wife, Margot, and daughter Sonja. 
Berlin's highest court said Tuesday the trial violated Ho­necker's "human dignity" be­cause he would die before a verdict. The trial started on Nov. 12 and had been expected to continue for many more months. 
"There is no justifiable reason for continuing with such a trial," said the judges, in a de­cision that angered many former East Germans. 
"For the victims and for those 
who suffered under the regime, 
this is a slap in the face," said 
Berndt Seite, governor of the 
Mecklenburg-Western 
Pomerania, a region that had 
been under Honecker's rule. 
~hristian Fuehrer, the daring 
Lutheran pastor who helped 
guide East Germany's peaceful revolution in 1989, said he regretted that Honecker never showed any signs of guilt. 
"Honecker can leave the country, without there ever be­ing anywhere near a full dis­cussion of the unjust system that he embodied," the Leipzig pastor said Wednesday. 
That system ordered its bor­der guards to shoot to death those escaping from the regime, and set mines and booby traps along the border. 
Authorities say about 350 East Germans lost their lives in escape attempts between 1961, when the Berlin Wall was built, and February 1989. 
Honecker had proudly su­pervised the concrete barrier's construction. He and his Com­munist cronies called the Berlin Wall an "anti-fascist protection wall" needed to protect Com­munists from the imperialist West. 
Honecker, who ruled with an iron fist from 1971 to 1989, spoke only once during the two months of his trial, when he de­livered an hourlong "political testament" on Dec. 3. 
Though the world had changed around him, much of Honecker's oration sounded like a standard Communist party line of a decade ago. 
He said the Berlin Wall pre­vented World War III and that he bore neither "judicial, nor political or moral guilt." 
At only one point did he ac­knowledge that East Germany as a Socialist state was an "experiment that had failed." 
Tired of being poor in a crumbling land, East Germans started leaving their country in the summer of 1989. The trickle turned into a flood. 

page 4 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1993 
Somalia 
continued from page 1 
rounded up 16 truckloads of weapons and ammunition in sweeps of gun markets and storehouses. The haul included 265 rifles and 55 machine guns. 
Brown cancels tribute after it Funds 
American troops discovered a complex of 15 underground bunkers just northeast of the city Wednesday stocked with what Hagee called "a great deal of ammunition." 
"We have just gotten started on Mogadishu. We're clearing out the rear now. I have char­acterized Mogadhishu as our sternest challenge," said Maj. 
is criticized as inappropriate 
WASIIJNGTON (AP) -Com­
merce Secretary-designate 
Ronald Brown canceled a cor­
porate tribute to his tenure as 
Democratic Party chairman 
Wednesday after it was criti­
cized as demonstrating "an ar­
rogance toward ethics." 
Democratic Party spokeswoman Ginny Terzano said the inaugural week event was scheduled before Presi­d!mt-eleet Clinton chose Brown for the Cabinet post with a key role in developing policies to­ward business regulation and trade. 
"The sole purpose of the event was to honor Mr. Brown's success as Democratic Party chairman," she said. 
"Even though the event was entirely appropriate, he is ask­ing the organizers to cancel it," Terzano said. Two other planned inaugural week tributes to Brown -one by the Association of State Democratic Party Chairs, the other by two tnachers unions -were also canceled. 
In Littlll Hock, Clinton en­dorsed Brown's decision. "It was cancelled today, and it should have been. As Com­merce Secretary-designate, it just was not the appropriate thing to do," Clinton said in an interview with Arkansas re­porters. 
J.C. Penney, Anheuser-Busch, Pepsico, Textron and Sony Music Entertainment Inc. were among the firms helping stage Sunday night's "Friends of Hon Brown" event at the Kennedy Center. 
The Los Angeles Times, which first reported the story in its Tuesday editions, said the corporate sponsors could be paying $10,000 each to stage the gala. 
Charles Lewis, executive di­rector of the Center for Public Integrity, had criticized the event as "showing poor judg­ment on Brown's part and, frankly, an arrogance toward ethics." 
After the cancellation. Lewis said, "I commend Brown for doing the right thing." 
Wayman F. Smith Ill, vice president for corporate affairs at Anheuser-Busch, said before the event was canceled that·the giant brewery was "participating out of respect for Hon Brown's achievements. We have known Ron through the years and highly regard his ability and talents. 
"To join in paying tribute to him is a distinct pleasure." 
"The decision to cancel was the right decision," said Ellen Miller of the Center for Re­sponsive Politics, which had criticized the planned gala as a way for corporations to exer­cise undue influence on the in­coming administration. 
As Commerce secretary, Brown would play a major role in developing Clinton adminis­tration policies regarding busi­ness regulation and trade that eould affect the fortunes of the large companies. 
OBC JAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in August 1993. Excellent working conditions and salary. Open to all majors. Japanese speaking ability not required. 
Interviewing at Career & Placement Center Feb. 11tb & 12th 
Kenya, you may be 20 but you're still our "baby girl" 
Happy Birthday 

Gen. Charles Wilhelm, the Ma­rine commander in Somalia. 
The ambush that killed Arroyo was the first on an American foot patrol and the boldest attack on U.S. troops. 
"It was a fierce firefight," said Hagee, who said a "significant number" of Somali gunmen opened fire on the 11-man night patrol. 
continued from page 1 
of those kids." 
Neither the association nor Cancel has ever "done some­thing like this before," he said, and they hope this first fundraising effort will prove a great success. 
HLSA is requesting support in order to establish the Hispanic Education Fund. Contributions may be mailed to HLSA. Notre Dame Law School, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE 

Foreign study grants to be awardled in '93 
Special to The Observer 
The Institute of International Education (liE) Midwest office announced it will award $1,000 grants to U.S. students at Midwestern colleges and universities study abroad during 1993-94. 
"We want to encourage stu­dents to study overseas-to gain that international competence so many people are talking about," said Bob Houston, director of the office. 
Best known for its adminis­trative role in the Fulbright Program, the Institute orga­nizes 275 international educa­tion, training and research projects under contract to such sponsors as the U.S. Agency for International Development, the World Bank, the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations, U.S. corporations, foreign govern­ments and universities, Hous­ton said. 
These grants are open to 
students in good academic standing with no previous experience studying abroad, !Houston said. There are no restrictions on destination, Iength of program or field of study, although applicants must show they are accepted into a program for whieh their home university will honor earned credit. 
"We particularly encourage applications for study in non­Western countries," Houston said. 
Applications for the grant are now available in Boom 420 of Notre Dame's Main Building. Applicants must submit an application complete with transcript, Jetter of recommendation and statement of proposed study to: liE Study Abroad Committee, Institute of Inter­national Education, 401 North Wabash Avenue-Suite #722, Chicago, IL 60611-3580. 
Grant applications are due March 19. Recipients will be announced by April 15. 

Take aSpring Break reality check. 
Padre
Trash the trappi winter and school, and don the warmth of a tropical island. 
Next, slip into the rippin' blue waters of South Padre. Soak up the sun on our 34 miles of white sand beaches. Our playground has beach volleyball, sand castle building contests and lots of really cool ~---...... entertainment. 
C .... 

Detour from the beach budget. Call the Visitors 
Get the hare facts on discoums for you
and experience the 
and your friends by calling South 
Bureau for acolor brochure on 
Padre Island FREE! 
ultimate in partying with our 
hotels, motels, and condos. sensational night life. And we 
And save some real chump Party Smart on South Padre so 
change (up to 50 percent!) on 
1··800-343-2368 
you won't fall off the deep end. 
select airlines. Southwest, If you're in the mood for a real 
American and Continental fiesta, just drive 20 minutes for 
serve The Valley International adiversion in Mexico. 
Airport in Harlingen. Centralized island accommodations fit any 



r''. • • 
Thursday, January 14, 1993 
Clinton reconsiders middle-class tax cut 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­President-elect Clinton said Wednesday that he'll have to reconsider his campaign pro­posal for a middle-income tax cut because the federal deficit is worsening. 
"I have to put everything back on the table," Clinton said in an interview with a group of Arkansas reporters. 
Although transition officials -and budget director-desig­nate Leon Panetta -had sug­gested that the tax cut promised by Clinton during his campaign might have to be put on a back burner. it was the first time Clinton has said so di­rectly. 
But, he said, "the size and the amount and the timing of it, 
The ObseNer page 5 

The Observer/ Rebecca Boucher 

Gift from Santa 
Fiddling with a Christmas present, Pangborn freshmen Karen Lanigan and Ruth Diemer use the new Macintosh computer to communicate with their friends at other schools through E-mail. 
I have to consider" against the size of the deficit -which he said is now projected as "$50 billion bigger five years from now than it was thought to be in August and over $100 billion bigger than it was thought to be in the spring when I put to­gether that book." 
He was referring to the book, "Putting People First," which proposes the tax cut. The book does not spell out the size of the tax cut, but said that middle-in­come families would be offered either a modest tax break or higher deductions for children. 
Clinton earlier said he was surprised by the new deficit figures, but suggested on Wednesday that the new figures were consistent with economic problems in Arkansas. 
Clinton may "wiggle" out of ending military ban on gays 
WASHINGTON (AP) President-elect Clinton is undecided on how to end the ban on gays in the military. but one possibility being weighed would meet the goal without a promised executive order. aides said Wednesday. 
Gay activists generally favor the executive order, saying such a strong gesture may be needed to get the job done. Omitting the order. however, could head off pressure from military leaders who support the ban, aides say. 
Under one of several alter­natives being considered, Clinton would dispense with the executive order and in­stead issue written orders to the secretary of defense to eliminate the ban on gays in the military. 
"It is Clinton wiggling, waf­fling and wavering out of his commitment to sign an executive order to repeal the ban on gays in the military," said Michael Petrelis, spokesman for the Washing­ton-based homosexual group Queer Nation. 
Clinton transition aides sought to damp any sugges­tion that he was backing off of his campaign promise to issue an executive order. 


No one prepares you for the MCA T bettw than Kaplan. OUr MCAT pl"9p course teaches you exactly what the test covers and the test­taking skills you'll need to aoore your beat. We offw live classes, llonle study notes, and audio review. Plus, no one else has a mcx-e extensive MCAT resource library than Kaplan. 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat question. 
President-elect supports strike; won't rule out continued force 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­President-elect Clinton ex­pressed full support for Wednesday's allied military strike on Iraq and said sternly "you can't rule out" further use of force after he takes office if Saddam Hussein violates in­ternational agreements. 
"I think it was the right deci­sion, done in the right way," Clinton said of the U.S.-led air strikes on Iraqi missile installa­tions. "We've been very sup­portive of President Bush." 
With his inauguration one week away, Clinton said he was prepared to inherit the tense standoff with Iraq, the deploy­ment of U.S. troops to Somalia and other global problems. 
"It's going to take a lot of time but we always knew that," Clinton said of foreign policy. "I think that taking the initiative is the right way to go.... But it cannot distract us from the ur­gent domestic mission and it will not." 
Clinton spoke a short time after his top spokesman said Clinton would "do what it takes" to force Iraqi compliance with United Nations resolutions 

Clinton 

stemming from the Persian Gulf War cease-fire agreement. 
Asked whether he was ready to order additional military strikes if Saddam again violates the U.N. mandates, Clinton said: "You can't rule it out, partic­ularly with regard to Iraq, you can't rule out force." 
Bush telephoned Clinton to tell him the operation was getting under way against Saddam. 
Clinton said of the Iraqi presi­dent, "He keeps for reasons I don't understand pushing and pushing." 
But Clinton said he was op­posed to any U.S.-sponsored assassination attempt on Sad-
StartlineM 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• 
NO MONTIILY SERVICE FEES When you write 8 checks or less 

• 
NO MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
FREE INSTANT CASH ATMACCESS 


• 
FREE FIRST ORDER OF CHECKS Standard design 

• 
PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES 


Come to expect the best. 


NORWEST BANKS 


South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana 
Member FDIC 

dam. "Our country has a firm policy saying that political as­sassination is illegal and that is the proper policy," he said. 
With the U.S. transfer of power nearing, the Clinton camp sought not only to convey his support for Bush's actions but also to send a clear signal to Saddam not to expect a relaxation of U.S. policy. 
"If that is the intention, he's making a mistake because President-elect Clinton supports President Bush's policy and he will do whatever it takes to ensure compliance when he takes office," said communica­tions director George Stephanopoulos. 
In Washington, Secretary of State-designate Warren Christopher said Iraq was testing the "will and the strength of the international community." 
"I say with great determina­tion that Saddam Hussein should not doubt for a second that we, the incoming adminis­tration, will meet that test," Christopher said. 
Dipping 
•
IS 
for Dips 
HOUSES FoR RENT 

93-94 4 & 5-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 
287-4989 

Listed with off-campus housing 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1993 
Magazine lists states with quality child care 
NEW YOHK (APJ -Cali­
fonlia may be staggering 
under its worst economic 
slump since the 1930s, but 
it's among 10 states that lead 
the nation in quality of child 
care. Working Mother 
magazine reports. 
The other nine states in a 
Working Mother study also 
stand out for exemplary child 
care, an increasingly 
important consideration 
among two-income families 
in choosing where to live. 
The 10 "have all, in vari­ous ways, made significant strides in the provision of child care." the magazine says in its February edition, released Wednesday. 
"It is really the 50 states­their legislatures. their governors and their agendes -that decide how our nation's children will be eared for." 
The magazine analyzed state child-care regulations across the country. More than half the states didn't meet its minimum requirements, said Judson Culbreth. editor-in­chief. A panel of nine child­care experts winnowed the list to what they considered the I 0 best. 
"The bad news is. there's no consistency," Culbreth said in a telephone interview. "Somn stales can gel away with very poor child eare. But the good news is that change is happening. If every working panmt sort of eried out to their state legislators and local government that they wanted ehange, it can indeed happen." 
Satellite out in year's first shuttle flight 
CAPE CANAVEHAL. Fla. (API 
-Endeavour rocketed into 
spaee Wednesday on the year's 
first shuttle flight, and the live 
astronauts promptly released a 
communications satellite. 
"There she goes!" crewman 
Mario Hunco Jr. said as the 
satellite drifted from the cargo 
bay six hours into the mission. 
The astronauts also planned a toy show and spacewalk and got a chance to use a new $23 million toilet. 
NASA's newest shuttle lifted off its seaside pad into a hazy sky at 8:59 a.m.. just seven minutes late because of extra computer checks. The climb to orbit took the usual 8 1/2 min­utes. and Endeavour soon was cruising 184 miles high. 
"It's a good ride up, and En­deavour and the crew are glad to be back in space," comman­der John Casper reported. 
The six-day mission is the third flight of Endeavour and the 53rd shuttle mission over­all. 

Exeter chair gets time for child porn 
CONCORD. N.H. (AP) -The former drama department chairman at Phillips Exeter Academy was sentenced to live years in prison Wednesday on child pornography charges in­volving his male students. He said he deserved the punish­ment. 
Lane Bateman. 51. apologized to students and their families before being sentenced by federal Judge Jose Antonio Fuste. Bateman said he will never again have anything to do with pornography. 
"I have broken laws .... I have broken taboos," Bateman said. "I realize I will be and deserve to be punished. I hope I can become a healed man (and) when that happens, I hope my family, my friends. my students can forgive me." 
Bateman, who had been free on bail. will be in a sexual of­fenders program at a federal penitentiary in Butner, N.C. 
WASliiNGTON (APJ -The Labor Department is advising the coal industry that the same mining practice was in use dur­ing four recent accidents that killed 12 miners and injured seven others. a spokesman said Wednesday. 
But the government stopped short of warning that the method -which involves re­moving pillars of eoal that had been serving as roof supports -was a factor in the accidents. 
"There is nothing yet in our investigations, which are still under way, that indicate room­and-pillar retreat mining had anything to do with the acci­dents," said Wayne Veneman of the department's Mine Safety and Health Administration. 
Bateman, who taught at the prestigious prep school for 12 years before authorities raided his campus apartment in July, was convicted last fall of pos­sessing child pornography and shipping it across state lines. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Arnold Huftalen asked Wednesday for a sentence ranging from 21 to 27 years, saying Bateman deserved a lengthy sentence because he showed no remorse. 
Bateman told reporters last fall, "In the long run, if they put me in jail for a long time. what have they accomplished?" 
Michael Caven, a former stu­dent of Bateman's at a Long Is­land. N.Y., high school, led authorities to Bateman. Caven said Bateman seduced him in 1980 and used drugs and alco­hol to get him to submit to sex over a six-week period. He said he went to police after entering therapy two years ago and real­izing the harm he had suffered. 
Same mining practice used during 4 deadly accidents 
"However. we intend to make the mining industry aware of the fact that room-and-pillar retreat mining was being used at the four mines where these accidents occurred," he added. "A bulletin will be issued to the industry by the end of this week." 
The department statement came in response to a United Mine Workers call Wednesday for a national alert and imme­diate inspection of U.S. coal mines following the accidents. 
Joe Main, the union's health and safety administrator, said that without safeguards, re­moving the coal pillars can trigger cave-ins that choke off mine arteries supplying fresh air. 
Happy 2Qth 
Kenya 
-Love Papa 




The~v<of a Lifetlme..~.19.93. 
Break awayt Break outl Big BeadHiig Fun-BIG VAWEI Qualty OC:aanfront Resorts. n.-......... 8eachcomer Oc:eanfl"ont ...... ~~ 2000 N. Allantlc Ave. m~ 
Mayan •...,_ .-tvrenovat.r.t 
l-Boo-874:7420
103 S. Ocean Ave. room. Umlted 


Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 14, 1992 page 7 
The Observer 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-5303 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock R1chard R1ley 
News Editor...................... David Kmney Advertising Manager ........M1ke Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kev1n Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blas1 Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harngan Systems Manager .............. Patnck Barth Photo Editor........... Marguente Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Sh1nmck Saint Mary's Editor..Anna Mane Tabor Controller........................Dav1d Beliveau 
The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessanly reflect the pohc1es of the adm1nistrat1on of 911her mstitut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1nion of the maJonty of the Ed1tor-m-Ch1ef, Managmg Editor, News Ed1tor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ed1tor. Photo Ed1tor. Sports Ed1tor, and Samt Mary's Ed1tor. Commentanes, letters and lns1de Columns present the v1ews of the authors, and not necessanly those of The Observer. V1ewpo1nt space IS available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sam! Mary's commumty and to all readers. The free expression of varymg op1mons through letters IS encouraged 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Writer corrects 'faulty understanding' of dogma 
Dear Editor: 
In a letter printed on Dec. 9, 1992, Jon Beane of the Philos­ophy Department made several theologically misleading state­ments that deserve correction. 
The first has to do with the "doctrine" of papal infallibility. (Note that Jon refers to it as a "doctrine," whereas in fact it is a "dogma." The difference is that a faithful Catholic may in principle disagree with the former, but not with the latter, without committing heresy.) 
lie goes on to propose a "richer" definition of papal in­fallibility than the one employed by the Church since Vatican I. According to his new definition, Catholics need to assent to beliefs that have never been defined as dogma, and/or that are still under theological and ethical discussion, as though they were on similar footing with dogmas such as the two natures of Christ, the Tri-unity of God, and so on. Who gave him the authority to propose this? 
In addition, Jon asserts that "any constant teaching that concerns matters of faith or morals.. .is to be respected as infallible by any Catholic." He makes several mistakes here. 
First, he does not seem to be speaking of papal teachings at all, but rather "any" teaching. This shifts the discussion from papal infallibility to doctrinal ir­reformability, which is different precisely in that doctrines are always recognized as culturally conditioned, and hence subject to reformation if and as their cultural context requires (Mysterium Ecclesiae, 1973). 
Second, he believes that papal 
DOONESBURY 
5tR,tue've 
HAPAICTH/3R R£CJUI35T 
H<a1JU~ 
k/At'3HFOR... 
\ 
NOT60NNA IXJIT. aoN'T. 6/VCNHIM, 
7liATPf<tE£CUTING 
EUI,AUH&N&&P5 7060, "H13Y, 8t.J9{, OUTOF 
infallibility can, in fact, attach to doctrines not defined as papally infallible. Once again, who authorized him to say this? The specific reason why the charism of infallibility was lim­ited by the conditions made ex­plicit by "ex cathedra" in the first place was to make certain that Catholics would not have to receive everything ever said by any pope at any time as though it were said by God. Jon, though, wants us to ignore those limiting conditions and treat every oft-repeated papal utterance as dogmatically infal­lible. 
Third, then, Jon goes on to say that just because the Church has never dogmatically defined homosexuality as in­trinsically sinful does not mean that we should not. Huh? Just because the Church has exer­cised its right to keep the dis­cussion open does not mean that we should not reject that decision and define homosexu­ality as intrinsically wrong all by ourselves? 
Jon's new definition of infalli­bility is "rich" precisely where the Church decided that it should not be. If accepted, it would allow any Catholic any­where to determine that any given idea was protected by infallibility and thereafter insist that it must be believed on pain of heresy. Jon applies it in this idiosyncratic way against ho­mosexuality. Hopefully, no one will apply it against his faulty understanding of infallibility. 
Kern R. Trembath, Ph.D. Assistant Chairman, De­partment of Theology Jan.4,1993 

t!Sl&N 70 7HI35l3e<Ca<PTE fROM 
MYP/A/?f: ''NOV.M,/987. tuCNT 7lJ 
MfiJT!N6, COV!:R-UPTHIN<3 O!~­{'jj93f!3lJ, 8lJTtuA5N'Tn-tT.IIvt7"'1/L.JV"I TION. SAM&ASIFNOT 
Certain questions need answers 
Dear Editor: 
It has been said that the stupid questions are the ones that go unasked. Well, I have questions that I hope can be answered. 
The other evening, I was walking down the hallway of my dormitory, and I noticed a flyer hanging upon a door. The words "Black Safewalk" were typed in bold at the heading. This caught my eye and I con­tinued reading. I noticed that this activity was sponsored by the African-American Student Alliance, with which I am not affiliated, and I support their ef­fort to make our campus safe for women walking late at night, especially during a time of the year when late night trips between residences and the computers and library are frequent. 
My question is if the African­Americans of the Notre Dame community feel this isolated from our community? As a woman, am I eligible to use this service? If so, why did I not re­ceive a flyer or notice an an­nouncement on public notice boards on campus? Is the African-American Student Al­liance trying to lighten the load of NO Safewalk during this busy season or are they making a statement about our community? I hope that these questions do not appear ridicu­lous, but I did not want them to go unasked. 
Jennifer McCarter Siegfried Hall Dec.8,1992 


ANPHOIA/ A/30UT 7HIS -''NOV.J5, 1987. JUST /?EMCM!JeRt[) I HeAJ?P }J?THfN6 JfT JAN. ?1981;, !11£&T­
/N6 tuHE:N /?CAGAN 70tP {/5 H5 FAVOR/30 ARtl15 FOR HOST/11£5..," 
~~~~~~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'!.. MUST HAVE BaN OUT 
TAKING A 
tf/H!lOI< 
50M&7HING. II 
I 
'There is no finer investment for any community than putting milk into babies.' 
Winston Churchill 

Submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint
page 8 Thursday, January 14, 1993 
'You don't have to wear plaid pants, I pron1ise' 
When I was an undergrad, I while at Notre Dame. was convinced that something Young alumni participate at bizarre happened at com­
all levels in local clubs -some mencement--that everyone even serve as club prosidents. was struck with a magic wand_ Alumni involvement can be a that eaused them to race out great way to build leadership and buy plaid garments. Not and management skills. Young bt>ing much of a plaid-wearer, I alumni also host events to wel­fervently hoped the wand come new grads to their areas, would miss me. ---+-+ help to "send off" first-year 
Upon graduation. just over students to lifn undnr thn Dome, five years ago, I couldn't wait to and organize evnrything from leave. I felt ready to get out ski trips, canoning and whitewater rafting excursions, to alumni Bookstore Basketball
Sheila M. McDaniel '87 
competitions.
Alumni Column 
I encourage you to continue 

and make my mark. Plus, I needed to pay off my student loans. With diploma in hand, I 
headed out into the world be­yond the Dome. I know I wasn't thinking about being "an alum" at that point. I needed a job! 
I have come to believe that much of what happens in life is due to serendipity. More so when Domers are a part of the mix. I moved to Washington D.C., with a stack of resumes, one confirmed interview with a public relations firm. and a di­rectory listing all members of the Washington, D.C. alumni club that was given to me at an AI umni Association-sponsored picnic during my senior year. 
I can credit Notre Dame alumni in Washington, D.C. with helping me lind my first apartment, my first job, two of my roommates, and four stu­dents who have helped me with an annual summer project at work. In fact. one of my sum­mer helpers -a '92 grad -is now working for me on a tem­porary basis while she looks at employment options with the new Congress. 
I must say that the Washing­ton, D.C. alumni club does a pretty good job of helping Notre Dame grads feel at home in a very transient community. We have a Jobs Coordinator who tries to match graduates look­ing for work with alums in the same field for informational in­terviews. (It was the Jobs Co­ordinator who suggested I broaden my employment search to include associations, and this led to my first job in an association's public affairs de­partment. The Jobs Coordina­tor also introduced me to one of her colleagues who needed a roommate -hence my first apartment and roommate.) 
The D.C. Club's Housing Co­ordinator keeps track of apartments and houses that Domers are willing to share as well as Domers looking for a place to live. (I found another of my roommates by calling the Housing Coordinator.) 
Our club sponsors a broad range of activities: an annual Lobster Feast, freshman send­off picnic, gamewatch parties, career night, a series of com­munity service projects, monthly lunch gatherings and social hours, a Dead-of-Winter Party hosted by young alumni -I could go on and on. We are not that unusual. Alumni clubs worldwide sponsor everything from lectures to communion breakfasts to help alumni stay connected with Notre Dame and to improve life in their own communities. 
One of the most important things I learned when I got in­volved in my local club -and I see the same thing on a larger 
Goal is to end racism, not start it 
Dear Editor: think the teacher supported back. It is being beaten near 
On Dec. 9, several racial mi­and/or promoted them? Be­death by a gang. nority organizations took out a cause somebody gives examples Racism is not being allowed full page ad in Thn Observer to of racist speech does not make to hold a high level position be­list three examples of "conerete them a racist. If I talk about cause a person's skin color is proof" that racism exists at the cruelties and injustices of too dark. It is not being al­Notre Dame. Thern may be thn KKK, does that make me a lowed to try out for quarter­racism at Notre Dame, but the member? back. It is being beaten near thrne allegations they listed In their third example, they death by cops. wern weak and unsubstanti­stated that males were making Racism is for a white male to ated. "obscenn, racist, and sexist" date an African-American fe­
In th!l first nxample, they ac­phone calls towards "women of male and then to have African­cused a Hector of being racist color". Thny were implying American males ignore and bncausn he would not let some that these male callers were harass her. It is students sitting African-American studnnts post white. These callnrs could be secluded from the rest of the some organizational flyers African-American, Hispanic, "Notre Dame Community" while ht~ let some white stu­Oriental, or white. To imply during lunch. dents put up their signs. Do that the callers were whitn is Racism was the lynching of you rnally think the Rector de­totally unsubstantiated. Why an African-American male in nied the posting of nynrs be­would an African-American the Deep South for saying "Hey, cause of the students' skin male make an obscene , racist, baby," to a white woman. It is color? There could be many and sexist phone call towards to seclude a people to the reasons why thn Hector would an African-American female? ghettos and projects to live and not let the students put up their Probably to promote racial ha­die like rats. signs: to claim racism as the tred and controversy. Why These are examples of reason is totally unjustifiHd. would somebody do this? I racism. If examples that were 
In thnir second example, they have no idea, but these types of given in that full page ad are claimed a Composition and Lit­activities do go on. Does any­the best examples of racial ha­erature tnacher was acting out body remember the Tawanna tred and prejudice on campus, racism by rnading "racial slurs Brawley and AI Sharpton inci­then Notre Dame is hardly a against African Americans" as dent? haven for racial discrimination examples in how to citn the What is racism? Racism is and injustice. Hint: racism source aftnr quotations. What not being allowed to receive a cannot b!l ended by creating it. were these "racial slurs"? And scholarship because a person's Robert E. Payne if they were truly slurs against skin is too light. It is not being Alumni Hall African-Americans, do you allowed to try out for running Jan.11,1993 

scale now that I am active at the national level: Notre Dame al.umni do not shy away from trying to make a difference. Whether they are refurbishing a Jersey City house for Christ­mas in April, collecting and distributing canned goods to food banks in Staten Island, or convincing high school students in Southern California that Indiana winters aren't so bad and that they should apply, Notre Dame alumni are not afraid to take action. 
This is particularly true of young alumni -graduates of the last decade. Many recent grads are involved in alumni community service -teaming up with other Domers or grad­uates of other colleges and uni­versities to serve food at shel­ters, tutor young students, or participate in Christmas in April. Much of this is a contin­uation of active lives of service to celebrate and cherish your time at Notre Damn. (I know this can be difficult during the cold, gray days early in the spring semester. l On your commencement day, I hope you will look forward to many opportunities, induding the chance to help build on Notre Dame's tradition by becoming involved in the alumni associa­tion. 
And I do promis1~-despite what you see on home football wneknnds-we don't all wear plaid. And wn won't make you wear plaid if you don't want to! 
Sheila McDaniel represents young alumni as one of 22 di­rectors of Notre Dame's Na­tional Alumni Board. .','he is also director of external affairs for the Council for Advance­ment and Support of Education (CASH). She is active in the 1,000-member Notre Dame Club ofWashington. D. C. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

24 hour Hesburgh Library service is not final 
Dear Editor: 
I want to personally thank the Hall Presidents' Council for making it financially possible for the Hesburgh Library to maintain 24-hour service dur­ing the recent final exam pe­riod. 
I am very pleased that this service was well received, with many students studying -and sometimes slenping! -during all the late night hours. I am also glad that there were no problems during this time. The HPC was of great help in our ef­forts to provide service hours when they are most needed, within our limited financial rn­sources. 
It is our intention to offer this service during finals in the semesters ahead, though the precise days may vary to max­imize benefit to the most stu­dents. Any suggestions in this matter should be referrnd to the Libraries' undergraduate liaison, Linda Sharp. who can be contacted at 631-6818. 
Robert C. Miller Director of Libraries Jan.6,1993 


--------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Accent 
Thursday, January 14, 1993 page 9 



uns 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

The gargoyles, which sit on top of Holy Cross College's maintenance garage, were 
created by Brother Richard Weber (above) and are modeled after the gargoyles on 
the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. 
Holy Cross College gargoyles have peaked curiosity for the past 20 years 

By BECKY BARNES 
Accent Writer 
Squirt guns are nothing new. You used to buy them at the five and dime for a quarter, and they fit in your pocket. Now you've got the super deluxe, you too can be Rambo, strap the holding tank on your back and we're talking water pressure models. 
But these designs are nothing 
that I'll try anything once," he said. 
He approached an art professor at Notre Dame, who gave him some clay to form a modeL From the clay sculpture, he made a mold to cast three cement gargoyles. 
The final products, each weighing 450 pounds, took approximately a year and a half to complete. Two are on the garage at Holy Cross, and the 
compared to the squirt------------third is 20 miles away. guns Brother Richard "I would have put them Weber created. 'I live by the motto on the chapel, but I 
Take a walk over to might have gotten in Holy Cross College, that I'll try anything trouble for it," Weber keep going until you get , said. to the maintenance OnCe. · Public reaction to the garage near the far gargoyles has been a edge of campus, and mixture of amusement look up. No. that's not a -Brother Richard and disgust, according 
winged monkey, and no, you aren't at a famous cathedral in Paris, but those are gargoyles. 
Just be careful where you stand. You might get wet. 
Weber, head of the maintenance department at Holy Cross, decided to make the gargoyles approximately 20 years ago after a lecture by another brother on basic church design. He later saw a picture in National Geo­graphic of the gargoyles on the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris and decided to model his gargoyles after those. 
That he had never made a statue before and had no experience in art didn't deter Weber. "I live by the motto to Weber. "A lot of
Weber people think they look 
cute, a few think 
they're terrible," he 
said. 
Some even ask what a Catholic campus is doing with devils on its roof. Weber just tells them that if Notre Dame (the Paris one) can have gargoyles, he can too. 
But these aren't just your average gargoyles. Each has a tube running through it that, when attached to a water supply, allows Weber to spray unsuspecting victims who happen to walk in the wrong place. 
The idea for the water gun came from a type bf gargoyle, like those on Alumni Hall, that is designed as a down spout for rain collected on roofs, said Weber. His gargoyles, though, have a purely ornamental design since they were modeled after Notre Dame's. 
The gargoyles have been out of operation for the past three years because the garage they sit on was re-roofed and Weber didn't want to put a hole for a water pipe in a new roof. But he's considering putting them back in working order this summer. 
When they did spray, Weber could see people walking by from his room so he knew when to pull the trigger. Most people he hit were "real surprised," he said, but once they knew where not to stand, they tried to get other people to walk there. 
Weber said he's had a lot of fun with the gargoyles but didn't have any real motive in mind when he decided to make them. "It's just one of those odd things you do," he said. 
Some would say Weber does a lot of odd things. His other hobbies include sewing and flying-in an airplane he made himself. 
The plane is a Mini Max, an ultra­light that allows "the maximum amount of fun for the minimum amount of money," Weber said. 
He made the plane three years ago and logged 72 hours of flight time "before the insurance company caught up to us," he said. Although he doesn't need a pilot's license to fly the plane, he had to land and take off over 
------------houses, which involved 
Former students a certain risk, he said. brought their wives to 'A lot of people think But the insurance the college and at-th I k t f company hasn't 
tempted to make them ey 00 CU 8, a 8W defeated Weber. standi': the right place. think they're terrible.' Although he hasn't 
Sometimes a brother flown the plane since with visitors coming last December, he would even tell Weber -Brother Richard plan~ to fin.d another 
when they were going landmg stnp and fly to pass, just to insure a Weber again this summer. spraying. You'd think between 
One of his favorite his job at the college episodes with the and his other hobbies, gargoyles was when------------Weber would have another brother spent a long time enough to do. But the gargoyles and pointing out to someone where not to flying are just things he finds a minute stand and then walked there himself for here and there, he said. not five minutes later. "He walked into Much of his off-duty time is spent dinner with wet spots on his shirt, and working with retarded children at everyone knew what happened," he Logan Center and area hospitals. said. Maybe they play with squirt guns ... 


Michael Jordan named male athlete of the y~3ar by AP 
BSERVER CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING POLICY 

1. Tha Observer will provide daily classifkld advertising as a service to 
it readers in and outside the Notre Dame/Saint Mary'a the community Cla$$ilied adver1i$ing will be available under the haaliings: NoticQs, LPI! and Found, For sale, For Rl!lnt, W.11nt$d, 11ckQI$, and P$rsar'llll. LQSl $ Found advertising ~s free to the public. 
2. 
Individuals placing classifkld advertising can do so at the Observe Ices at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's during regular business !lours, sencllng tha reqiJilsted advertiSilment, inU!nded days of publication a 
payment to the Observer offi~ by mail. Individuals purthasing classif 


vertising must include their full name address and/or telephOne num r Observer records, or the ad will be not be publish$d. 
. The Observer Office Manager will oversee the classified advertisln operation, but it i& the Managing Editor's responsibility to review th advertisements each day. Any adVertisement deemEid obscene, libelous Olherwise unsuitable for publication will be deleted at thl! Managing Editor' 
otion. ln extreme C3$$S, the Editor-in-chi$! will make the final deci$i 
hether to publish the advertisement. No classified advertising will 
publlsh$d without an Initial of approval from the Managing Editor, the Editor 
In-Chief or, in unavoidable circumstances, a specially appointed member 
e Editorial Board. Individuals whose ads do not appear as intend should contact the Observer within 1 0 days of the intended publication f. explanation. QuestiOns and concems involving classHied. adVertising snou be directed to the Managing Editor. 
4. The Observer will keep records of individuals placing classlfie dvertlsements tor sixty (60} days. The Observer cannot be hel responsible tor questions involving advertisements more than 60 days old, nor can It be hold accountable tor individuals providing false Information 
hen purchasing classified advertisements. The names ot individuals lacing advertisement will not be released to the public as a rule. xceptions may be made at the Managing Editor or Editor-in-Chief's · etion in exlremEI cases necessary to protect the rights of individuals. 
NOTICES 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 NO Ave & Howard 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: Ladies watch in 127 NSH on 1-13-93. Call 233-4925 to identify. 
Found: 1 Pair of nice gloves behind Alumni Hall. Call David X 1654 
LOST: Silver Peugeot watch lost Thursday of finals week in or around DeBartolo 101. lffound please call Jesse at 43268. 
WANTED 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Have the best summer of your life by joining the team rated tops in providing the best of Western hospitality to Glacier Park visitors! 1993 Summer applications now being accepted for the following positions: Bar, Restaurant, Kitchen staffs, Desk Clerks, Salespeople, Store Clerks, Office, Service Station, Housekeeping, and Maintenance Personnel. Interviews will be held on campus February 8 & 9. Write to: St. Mary Lodge & Resort, 
P.O. Box 1808, Sun Valley, 10 83353 for an application. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 
FOR RENT 
Reserve '93-94 yr. 1628 Portage. 6 bedrm. Beach V-ball ct. 234-3831, 273­0482 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
FURNISHED ROOM. 
$170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. 287-2159. 
Near N.D. quaint. clean furnished apts. 1 bedrm-240 2 bedrm-280 deposit, references 
1-800-582-9320. 

2. 3. & 6 BEDROOM HONES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW AND NEXT FALL. 272-6306 
FOR SAL~ 
RAPID WORDPROCESSING 
Call Lori at 271-0754 
TICKET~o 
Who's your basketball coao:h?l Who's your basketball coaGh?! 
Hello sports fans. Skip 11eeds 3 basketball tix to the Kentuc:ky WildCATastrophe due to take place in the month de amor. Be a pal. samaritan, or whatever and sell him the tickets or one of his Italian relatives might pay you a visit. Then the time for haggling will bo over. Call Skip at x2052 and leave a message if he ain't around 
PERSON~~ 
Adoption: Doctor and teact1er will make dreams for your bab)' come true. Full-time parenting. B13st of the city; summers by the beact1: your baby rocked to sleep by a c:ozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education. endless lo~e. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212}369-2597. 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, LIMITED SPACE. SUN SPLASH TOURS 
1-800-426-7710. 

'''AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249. DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $47911-800-678-6386. 
SPRING BREAK "93" with 
COLLEGE TOURS 

CANCUN $459 Air, Hotel, Parties, Nightly Entertainment! Interested in traveling for tree? Become a College Tours Representative. For more information & reservations call: LOUIE 1-800-395-4896. 
TO THE I. D.-LESS GUARD Thanks for the hospitality in Dallas. It was much appreciated. THE HOMELESS ALUM 
IF YOU NEED HELP, CALL THE HEATER! 
TO JJ AND CHELSEA-HUG HUG THANKS FOR THE INVITE TO THE PARTY. .. SEE VA!!!! 
LIZ AND MERE HAVE RETURNED 
~----------------------------------~--~-­
The Observer 

page 10 
Celtics claim seventh straight 
BOSTON (API -The Boston Celties, the NBA's hottest team, survived a late Washington surge for their seventh straight win as Heggie Lewis scored 27 points in a 98-93 victory Wmhwsday night. 
The Bullets closed an 83-72 defkit with 10 minutes left to 95-92 with 2:14 to go. But they missnd three of four free throws and all four field-goal attempts the rest of the way. 
With the score 97-93, Sherman Douglas clinched the win by stealing an inbounds pass, then making one of two free throws with nine seconds left. 
The Bullets were led by Hex Chapman with 26 points, although he hit no field goals after scoring 21 points in the first half. Pervis Ellison added 20 points for Washington. 
Hobert Parish finished with 16 points and 16 rebounds for the Celtics, who boosted their Boston Garden record to 20-1 in their last 21 games against Washington. Boston is unbeaten in 1993 after ending 1992 with an 0-4 record on a West Coast trip. 
Pistons 112, Mavs 96 
AUBURN IIILLS, Mich. -Isiah Thomas scored 20 points as Detroit kept Dallas winless on 
NEW YOHK (AP) -After conquering the NBA, Michael Jordan helped conquer the world in 1992. 
Basketball's biggest star had his biggest year, leading the Chicago Bulls to their second straight NBA championship, winning his third MVP award and then playing a supporting role as the U.S. Olympic team won the gold medal in Barcelona. 
Now . .Jordan can add another honor to his 1992 trophy case -Assoeiated Press Male Athlete of the Year. 
Jordan is only the fifth man to win the award in consecutive years, joining Joe Montana, Carl 
Lewis, Byron Nelson and Don Young, Christian Laettner and 
Classifieds 
the road this season in the debut of Mavericks interim coach Gar !Ieard. 
!Ieard was named to replace Hichie Adubato, fired earlier in the day. but it made no difference as Dallas lost its 13th consecutive game and fell to 2­28 for the season and 0-14 on the road. 
Terry Davis scored 17 points, including 13 in the first half, and grabbed 14 rebounds for the Mavericks. 
Dennis Rodman had 18 rebounds for the Pistons, snapping a streak of five games in which he grabbed more than 20. 
Nets 104, Cavaliers 98 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. Derrick Coleman scored 25 points and New Jersey forced 20 turnovers from usually surehanded Cleveland. 
Kenny Anderson had 23 points, including consecutive jumpers in the final 2:11, to help the Nets post a season­high three-game winning streak at home. The loss was the second in as many nights for the Cavaliers, who got 22 points from Brad Daugherty. 
Cleveland, which beat New Jersey in the opening round of last year's playoffs, came into the game as the NBA's best 
Budge. 
"It's nice that it's not just a basketball award," Jordan said. "I can cherish it a little more because it's voted on by people who don't necessarily watch basketball that much." 
Although basketball is the world's fastest growing sport, it hasn't always been this prominent. Jordan and Larry Bird, the AP's top male athlete in 1986, are the only basketball players to win the award since it began in 1931. 
Jordan won by a comfortable margin over a field that ineluded Lewis. Mario Lemieux, Magic Johnson, Shaquille O'Neal, Dennis Eckersley, Steve Barry Bonds. 
Jordan received 264 points and 37 first-place votes -twice as many as his closest challenger. He was followed by Lemieux (177 -18), Johnson {95­14), Lewis {67-8), O'Neal (60-7), Eckersley (59-4), Young (58-9), Laettner {57-6) and Bonds (50­6). 
While it's rare for a basketball player to win the award, it's not for an Olympian. Nine times in 14 Olympic years, the award has been won by stars at the Winter or Summer Games. 
Other Olympic winners were Jesse Owens in 1936, Bob Mathias in 1952, Hafer Johnson in 1960, Don Schollander in 1964, Mark Spitz in 1972, shooting team (.504), best free throw team (.811) and with the second-fewest number of turnovers per game (14.0). 
None of the numbers improved against New Jersey. Cleveland made 44 percent of its shots from the field and 68 percent from the free throw line. 
76ers 129, Warriors 122 

PHILADELPHIA Jeff Hornacek scored 22 of his 29 points in the second half of Philadelphia's victory over Golden State. 
Rookie Clarence Weatherspoon and Johnny Dawkins each had 28 points for Philadelphia, which played without leading scorer Hersey Hawkins, sidelined with a sprained ankle. 
Sarunas Marciulionis, who missed the first 24 games of the season with a broken ankle, had 34 points for Golden State. Tim Hardaway scored 25 and Mullin 20 for the Warriors, while Tim Perry had a career­high seven blocked shots for the 76ers. 
Philadelphia took the lead for good in the fourth quarter when Hornacek scored eight points during a 10-2 run that put the 76ers ahead 110-106. 
Thursday, January 14, 1993 

·i 
Bruce Jenner in 1976, the U.S. hockey team in 1980 and Carl Lewis in 1984. 
"Jesse Owens had to overcome a lot of social pressures to succeed at that time," Jordan said. "We have pressure today, but a different kind. It's amazing that he could win an award like this in that social climate. I would have liked to have met him, see what kind of person he was, what made him tick." 
Despite all his accomplishments, 1992 was a rocky year for Jordan. Questions were raised about his gambling on the golf course, associations with disreputable 
figures and his decision to limit that year," he said. 
The Observer accepts class lieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 Lafocune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepa1d The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
marketing of his image to products that he has endorsed. 
"There were a lot of negatives in 1992, so this will help me remember it in a positive way," Jordan said. "If the Bulls hadn't won, it would have bmm a down year, on balance. Just winning the Olympics wouldn't have been enough." 
The business conflicts and jealousies express11d by some Olympic athletes made the Games less satisfying for Jordan in 1992 than in 1984, when he was on the winning U.S. team before becoming an NBA star. 
"I had more Olympic spirit in 1984 and I benefited individually on the business side 

Thursday, January 14, 1993 Page 11 
BASEBALL
NCAA POLLS / NBA STANDINGS NBASTATS NHL STANDINGS 
COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE-Announced the resignation or Steve Greenberg, deputy How the top 25 teams In The Associated commissioner and chler operating officer, EASTERN CONFERENCE NBA Leaders WALES CONFERENCE Press college basketball poll rared Wednesday: eiTecUve In 90 days. Allantie Division Palrlck Division 
Scoring Alab&ma, Tuesday. BOSTON RED SOX-Named Mark Meleski New York 20 12 .625 G FG FT Pill Avg Pittsburgh 29 11 4 62 196 149 
1. 
Kentucky (11-0) at Vanderbilt. Next: at American League w L PeL GB w L T Pill GF GA 

2. 
Michigan (12-2) did not play. Next: vs. manager or Lynchburg In the Carolina League. New Jersey 19 15 .559 2 Jordan, Chi. 33 406 203 1053 31.9 Washington 22 18 4 48 176 159 Notre Dame, Saturday. Agreed to terms with John Marzano, catcher. Boston 19 17 .528 3 Wilkins, All. 21 198 156 581 27.7 NY Hangen~ 21 18 6 48 186 179 

3. 
Duke (11-1) beat Wake Forest 86-59. Next: on a one-year contract. Orlando 14 15 .483 4112 MuJUn, G.S. 33 365 128 905 27.4 NewJeney 22 17 3 47 144 140 vs. No. 13 Iowa, Saturday. MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Designated Philadelphia 12 19 .387 7112 K. Malone, Ut&h 32 296 256 851 26.6 NY lllande,.. 18 21 4 40 172 164 

4. 
Kansas (12-1) did not play. Next: vs. Oral Franklin Stubbs, rlrst baseman, ror Washington 11 23 .324 10 Barldoy, Pboe. 29 265 207 766 26.4 Philadelphia 16 19 6 38 160 162 Roberts, ThW'1lday. assignment. Miami 10 22 .313 10 Olajuwon, Hou. 32 315 172 802 25.1 Adams Division 

5. 
North Carolina (12-1) vo. No. 8 Georgia TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms with Central Division Dumars, Del. 31 276 154 742 23.9 Montreal 26 15 5 57 192 155 Tech. Next: at demson, Saturday. Gary Redus, outftelder, on a two-year contract Chicago 24 10 .706 Robinson, S.A. 31 252 223 728 23.5 Quebec 24 14 6 54 187 161 

6. 
Indiana (14·2) did not play. Next: at and Craig LeiTerts, pitcher, on a one-year develand 20 15 .571 4112 Petrovic, N.J. 31 268 142 720 23.2 Boston 23 17 2 48 165 154 IUlnols, Saturday. contract. Charlotte 17 14 .548 5112 Hardaway, G.S. 33 270 169 759 23.0 BuiTalo 21 16 6 48 194 155 

7. 
Seton Hall (14-1) did not play. Next: at National League Detroit 17 16 .515 6112 O'Neal, OrL 29 252 153 657 22.7 Hartl'ord 12 27 4 28 136 196 Pittsburgh, Saturday. CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with Indiana 16 17 .485 7 112 Johnson, Char. 31 279 134 702 22.6 Ott&-4 38 3 11 100 210 

8. 
Georgia Tech (9·1) at No. 5 North Chris Sabo, third baseman, and Rob Dibble, Atlanta 15 17 .469 8 Manning, LAC 34 293 166 752 22.1 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Carolina. Next: vs. College or Charleston, pitcher, on one-year contracts. Sold the Mllwaukee 14 19 .424 9112 Ewing, N.Y. 32 283 140 707 22.1 Norrt. DtvWon Saturday. contract or Bill Doran, second baseman, to the WESTERN CONFERENCE Richmond, Sac. 31 247 151 675 21.8 w L T Pill GF GA 

9. 
Arkansas (12-1) did not play. Next: at Milwaukee Brewers. Mldweot Dlvlolon Miller, Ind. 33 223 199 688 20.8 Chicago 24 16 6 54 152 123 VanderbUt, Wednesday, Jan. 20. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms w L PeL GB Grant, Wash. 32 270 114 654 20.4 Detroll 24 19 3 51 189 160 

10. 
Oklahoma (11-3) did not play. Next: vs. with Les Lancaster, pitcher, on a one-year Ut&h 22 10 .688 Lewis, Bos. 35 283 147 715 20.4 Minnesota 21 16 6 48 151 146 Nebraska, Thursday. contract. Sent Bien Figueroa, shortstop, San Antonio 18 13 .581 3112 30 209 161 606 20.2 Toronto 20 17 7 47 145 144


Hawkins, Phil. 

11. Cincinnati (10-1) beat develand State 72· outright to Louisville of the American Houston 16 16 .500 6 Price, Oev. 31 228 112 621 20.0 St. Louis 17 21 6 40 152 160 
63. Next: at DePaul, Saturday. Association. Denver 8 23 .258 13 112 Tampa Bay 15 28 2 32 145 173 
12. Arizona (7·2) did not play. Next: vs. BASKETBALL Minnesota 6 23 .207 14 112 Reid Geal Percentage Smythe Division Washington, Thursday. National Basketball Association Dallas 2 28 .067 19 FG FGA Pel Vancouver 26 12 5 57 196 129 
Daugherty, dev. 186 320 .581 at No. 3 Duke, Saturday. Adubato, head coach. Named Garfield Heard Phoenix 23 6 .793 Brickowskl, Mil. 204 359 .568 Los Angeles 22 16 5 49 180 173 
13. 
Io-(IJ-2) vs. No. 19 Minnesota. Next: DALLAS MAVERICKS-Fired Riehle Pacific Division Calgary 25 15 4 54 171 142 

14. 
Virginia (10·0) beat demson 100-82. Interim coach. SeatUe 23 8 .742 I Ceballos, Pboe. 142 251 .566 Winnipeg 19 20 4 42 151 161 Next: at No. I Duke, Sunday. PHOENIX SUNS-Activated Tim Kempton, PorUand 21 10 .677 3 121 219 .553 Edmonton 14 24 7 35 121 176

Thorpe, Hou. 


15. 
Connecticut (7·3) did not play. Next: at center, rrom the Injured list. LA Lakers 18 14 .563 6112 Owens, G.S. 130 238 .546 San Jose 6 36 2 14 124 214 No. 22 Boston College, Saturday. FOOTBALL Golden State 18 16 .529 7 112 O'Neal, Orl. 252 462 .545 Tueoday'o Gameo 


(tie) UCLA (10·3) did not play. Next: at National Football League LA dippers 17 17 .500 81/2 Nance, Oev. 243 449 .541 Boston 5, BuiTalo 2 Oregon, Thursday. GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed LeRoy Sacramento 13 18 .419 11 K. Malone, Utah 296 548 .540 Los Angeles 3, Ottawa 2 
17. 
Purdue (9·2) vs. Wisconsin. Next: at Buller, sarety, to a two-year contract Tueoday'o Games Corbin, Ut&h 164 307 .534 New York Islanders 8, Calgary 2 Penn St&te, Saturday. extension. Washington 121, Milwaukee 98 Olajuwon, Hou. 315 593 .531 New Jersey 3, Vancouver 2 

18. 
UNLV (7-1) did not play. Next: vs. HOCKEY Chicago 122, Orlando 106 MuiUn, G.S. 365 688 .531 Chicago 3, Minnesota 1 University or the Pacific, Thursday. Colonial Hockey League AUanta 126, Golden St&te 118 Winnipeg 4, San Jose 1 

19. 
Mlnnesot& (10-1) at No. 13 Iowa. Next: at FLINT BULLDOGS-Activated Dan Woodley, Boston 121, develand 115 Rebounding Wedneoday'o Gamea Wisconsin, Saturday. center, rrom the Injured list. Indiana 112, Philadelphia 93 G OtT Del' Tot Avg Late Game Not Included 

20. 
Georgetown (8·2) vs. DePaul. Next: vs. COLLEGE Utab 125, Miami 122, 20T Rodman, Del. 27 162 369 531 )9.7 Montreal 7, Hartford 3 VIllanova at the Spectrum. Saturday. BROWN-Named Jim Fleming derenslve Seattle 122, Phoenix 113 O'Neal, Orl. 29 137 292 429 14.8 New York Rangers 5, Washington 4 

21. 
Ohio State (9·2) vs. No. 23 Michigan coordinator. Houston 113, LA Clippers 103 Barkley, Phoe. 29 116 263 379 13.1 Toronto 4, St. Louis 3 State. Next: at Wisconsin, Wednesday. COLGATE-Named Mike Whalen, Mike New York 104, Sacramento 93 Willis, AU. 32 126 290 416 13.0 Detroit 5, Tampa Bay 3 

22. 
Boston College (9·3) did not play. Next: Gibson, Mike Kelleher and Joe Trainer, Portland 109, Denver 100 Olajuwon, Hou. 32 109 296 405 12.7 Winnipeg at Edmonton, (n) vs. No. 15 Connecticut, Saturday. assistant roothall coaches. Wedneaday'o Gamea Ewing, N.Y. 32 85 298 383 12.0 

23. 
Michigan State (8-3) at No. 21 Ohio State. COLORADO STATE-Named Dave Lay Late Games Not Included Robinson, S.A. 31 92 278 370 11.9 Next: at Northwestern, Saturday. oiTenslve coordinator and Steve Fairchild Boston 98, Washington 93 

Mutombo, Den. 31 106 259 365 11.8 

24. 
Syracuse (9·4) did not play. Next: at quarterback coach. Announced that Urban New Jersey 104, Oeveland 98 K. Malone, Ut&h 32 89 287 376 11.8 NIU. Scoring Leaders Providence, Saturday. Meyer will be retained as wide receivers coach. PhUadelphta 129, Golden State 122 Seikaly, Mia. 28 93 223 316 11.3 NEW YORK (AP) -NHL scoring leaders 

25. 
Utah (10-2) did not play. Next: at Air DUQUESNE-Named Bob Palko, derenslve Detroit 112, Dallas 96 through Jan. 12: 


l'orce, Thursday. coordinator; Dave Oprar, derenslve line coach, San Antonio at Minnesota (n) Assists Player, Team GP G A PTS PIM and Tom Fedko, linebackers coach. New York at Denver (n) Lemieux, Pit 40 39 65 104 28
G No Avg MOUNT ST. JOSEPH-Promoted Ronald Thuraday'o Galll08 Lafontaine, Bur 43 30 52
Stockton, Utah 32 400 12.5
TRANSACTIONS 82 45 
Corradlnl, assistant football coach, to head Detroit at AUanta, 7:30 p.m. Hardaway, G.S. 33 375 11.4 Oates, Bos 42 25 44 69 20 rootb&U coach. San Antonio at Mllwaukee, 8:30 p.m. Rogues, Char. 31 308 9.9 Mogllny, Bur 37 41 26 67 24Skiles, Orl. 29 256 8.8
Wedne<day'o Sporto Transactions OREGON-Extended the contract of Rich Charlotte at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Recchl, Phi 41 28 39 67 52 By The Associated Pre.. Brooks, rootb&U coach, ror two years through SeatUe at Utah, 9 p.m Turgeon, NY1 42 24 41 65 18
Thomas, Del. 29 256 8.8 AUTO RACING the 1997 season. LA Lakers at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. M. Jackson, LAC 34 292 8.6 Gilmour, Tor 43 17 48 65 42 MARTIN MOTORSPORTS-Announced that SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA-Named Don Phoenix at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Adams, Wash. 30 253 8.4 Bure, Van 43 38 26 64 
34 LaiTy Pearson wUJ drive a llmlted schedule ror Lindsey assistant head rootball coach and Miami at Portland. 10:30 n.m. Anderson, N.J. 33 272 8.2 Stevens, Pit 35 33 31 64 84 the team In 1993. offensive coordinator. Selanne, Win 43 35 28 63 35
Williams. Minn. 27 222 8.2 Price, dev. 31 242 7.8 Sundin, Que 41 3625 61 32 
Robitaille, LA 43 31 29 60 50 


Aetna will be on campus interviewing students for the following career opporttmities 
Iprogrammer analysts I 
Iclaim representatives I 
Iemployee benefits representatives 
Descriptions of the careers are located in your career services department. If you would like us to consider you for an interview, drop your resume off at Career Services between January 18 and 20. We will notify those students who meet the pre-selection criteria to arrange an interview in February. 

You expect a lot. So do we. 


page 12 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1993 
Commodores end Wildcats' stay at top 
NASHVILLE. Tenn. (AP) ­
Chalk up another upset for 
Vanderbilt's Memorial Gym 
magic, and another quick end 
to Kentueky's stay at No. 1. 
Billy McCaffrey scored 22 
points and handed out a 
school-record 14 assists as 
Vanderbilt downed top­
ranked Kentucky 101-86 
Wednesday night. 
Vanderbilt. which has a 
.779 winning percentage at 
Memorial Gym, beat the last 
No. 1 team to visit, North 
Carolina in 1987-1988. 
The Wildcats had taken 
over No. 1 in The Associated 
Press poll Monday after 
Duke's loss to Georgia Tech 
on Sunday. the first time 
Kentucky had been No. 1 
since 1988. That time the 
Wildcats lost to Auburn in 
their first game with the top 
ranking. 
The Commodores (12-3, 2-1 SEC) were nearly perfect at the free throw line, making 36 of 41. Kentucky (11-1, 2·1) found itself in foul trouble early with Jamal Mashburn, Travis Ford and Rodney Dent each with four fouls late in the game. 
McCaffrey put the Commodores up 70-64 with 
9:59 before the Wildcats gave UHlir last charge at the lead. 
Junior Braddy capped a 10­4 run with a 3-pointer that gave Kentucky Its only lead of the second half. 75·74 with 
6:44 to go. But then the Commodores took advantage of the Wildcats' foul trouble and put away the victory with an 8-3 run capped by two free throws by Kevin Anglin with 3:32 left for an 83-78 margin. 
Duke 86, Wake Forest 59 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. ­It's hard to imagine Bobby Hurley raising his high­intensity game to a new level. 
But Hurley, who was still smarting after being leveled Sunday by a pick in the loss to Georgia Tech, proclaimed Wednesday night that his mini-shooting slump is over and he plans on getting better as the season progresses. 
A seat·y thought for the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
The senior point guard scored seven of his season­high 25 points in a 14-0 run to start the second half and no. 3 Duke broke from a halftime tie and raced past Wake Forest 86-59. 
" ... I was wondering about my shot a little bit and Coach just came up to me before we started the second half and said. 'You'rfl a great shooter and when you have your shot look for it,"' said Hurley, who was 9 for :~0 from the field in his last two conference games. 
Hurley hit seven of nine shots in the second half, including three 3-pointers, and finished with six assists and four steals. 
Duke (11-1. 2-1) was playing its first game since having its 23-game winning streak snapped by Georgia Tech on Sunday. 
Dehere shooting into Big Ea~;t's elite 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Being a marked man has changed Terry Dehere. It's made the two-time all-Big East shooting guard a better player and No. 7 Seton Hall almost unbeatable this season. 
Dehere, who became the Pi­rates' No. 2 all-time leading scorer Monday night, is having a phenomenal senior season despite all the added attention he is getting. He is averaging 23 points overall and 25.3 points in Big East play, where Seton Hall is off to its best start with a 4-0 mark. 
While the points are impres­sive, so is the way Dehere is getting them. His shooting av­erages from the field and 3­point range are up 6 to 8 per­centage points. Dehere's free throw line shooting average has also improved. 
Dehere has converted 110 of 221 from the field, 50 percent, and 38 of 82 from long range. 
or 46.3 percent. He came into the season a 43 percent shooter from the field and a 38 percent shooter from 3-point range. 
"I really think he has taken it to another level," Seton Hall coach P.J. Carlesimo said. "He was at a level we would have been perfectly happy for him to remain. If he would have come back and played the way he al­ways played, we still have an excellent club. 
"He's not," Carlesimo added. "I don't know if people appre­ciate the level he is playing at. He is putting numbers up that are remarkable, and he is doing things that he has not done over the years." 
The things that stand out in Carlesimo's mind are Dehere's shot selection, his passing, his intelligence on the court and his ability to create things for teammates when he can't get something for himself. 
In their first three years to­gether, Dehere and Carlesimo spent a lot of time on the side· lines engaged in some lively conversation. Carlesimo gen·· erally did most of the talking. 
Even during that time, Dehere produced. He has scored in double figures in 98 of 108 career games, and scoree 20 or more points in 51 games. 
He has scored 2,069 career points, and has only Nick Werkman (2,273) left to pass on Seton Hall's all-time scoring list. His 24 points in an 80-7 3 win over Syracuse on Monday also moved Dehere past Mark Bryant into ninth place amon~: Big East all-time scorers, and there is a chance Dehere might catch league career leader Chris Mullin {1,290). Dehere has scored 1 ,022 points in Big East play. 
Carlesimo said Dehere has been overlooked at times be·· cause he is so consistent. 
"He kind of pounds in between 18 and 25 on a regular basis, and he has been doing that since his freshman year," Carlesimo said. "It's not that people don't know, but he doesn't blow you away with 35 or 40 or anything. If you can be methodical in scoring 20-some points a game, that's the way he plays." 
This year, Dehere has been at his best with games on the line. The Syracuse game was a per­fect example. Three times in the second half, the Orangemen made runs at the Pirates. And eaeh time they got close, Dehere hit a big basket or foul shot to fend them off. 
"When things are shaky late in the ballgame and things are close, I feel there is a need for me to actually do something at that point," Dehere said. ''I'll try to hit the big shot or make the pass or grab a rebound. It's something I have to do." 
Kentucky frat charged with theft of Duke memorabilia 
LEXINGTON, Ky. {AP) ­Members of a University of Kentucky fraternity will have to perform 2,000 hours of com­munity service as punishment for taking sports memorabilia from two North Carolina schools, UK officials said Wednesday. 
The community service was among several sanctions against the Pi Kappa Alpha chapter outlined in a letter Monday to fraternity president Lance Dowdy and released to the public Wednesday. 
In December, UK officials confiscated several items they said Pi Kappa Alpha pledges took from the Duke and North Carolina campuses during a 
"WONDERFULLY APPEALING,DARKLY FUNNY! 
An exceptional film!" 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
"A HILARIOUS DEADPAN FARCE!" 
-Joe Leydon, THE HOUSTON POST 
Afilm by HAL HARTLEY 
weekend retreat. 
Among the items taken from Duke were the retired jerseys of former Duke basketball players Christian Laettner, Danny Ferry and Johnny Dawkins. 
"It should be understood that the Dean of Students Office will not tolerate any further viola­tion of the Code of Student Conduct by Pi Kappa Alpha, or settle for anything less than total compliance to the follow­ing sanctions," the letter to Dowdy from Associate Dean of Students Victor Hazard said. 
"Anything less than total compliance will result in cancellation of your registration as a student organization." 
Happy 19th Birthday 
Will 
Love, Mom and Dad 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 ' 9:45 
The sanctions outlined in the letter: 
-Placed the fraternity on probation until Jan. 11, 1994. Any other violation during the probation will result in cancellation of the fraternity's registration as a student organization. 
-During the spring 1993 and fall 1993 semesters, banned all social functions in the chapter house and intramural participa· tion by the fraternity, and barred the chapter from having a pledge class. 
-Ordered the chapter to make full restitution for any damages. 
Investigators also found a lamp made out of a North Carolina Tar Heel football hel­met, a photo taken from the 1976 Peach Bowl that showed UK's 21-0 victory over North Carolina. 
TWICE '"fHE FUN!! HALF TI-IE PRICE!! 
Save $$at hundreds of restaurants mol'ies. special events & travel.' 
ONLY$30 
A vail able at the LaFortune lnformation Desk. For more information caii6JJ-8128. 
-------·------~·----­
' 

Thursday, January 14, 1993 The Observer page 13 
NFL protects Super Bowl tickets Olivadotti wary of Bills 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP)-Aunt Jemima and Sara Lee use copyrights to protect the names of their syrup and cakes. The Oscars use accountants at Price Waterhouse to protect trophy winners. Fort Knox uses guards to protect money. 
The NFL's security combines printing tricks and secrecy to protect Super Bowl tickets. 
Charged with printing 101,000 Super Bowl tickets this year, the league has adopted several covert, mysterious devices, as well as a couple of tried and true tricks to prevent counterfeiting. 
Playoff 
continued from page 16 
and my leg felt pretty good." 
Kelly's backup, Frank Reich, led the Bills to a record-setting, come-from-behind 41-38 vic­tory against the Houston Oilers in the opening playoff game and to a 24-3 victory over Pitts­burgh last weekend. 
"It's a decision I knew going in," Reich said. "When Jim got hurt, what I was thinking in my mind was, 'Just keep this going until Jim can get back again.' I'm extremely happy and proud of the fact that the team has been able to do that without him." 
Despite Reich's good play, 
Levy said he had given no seri­
ous consideration to keeping 
Reich in the lineup once Kelly 
was healthy. 
"I've said from the day he was 
Over the years, the league has used holograms, heat-sensitive ink and a secret printer to foil would-be imitators. The holograms and secret printer were so successful, they are back this year. 
"We don't release the name of the company that prints the tickets, that's internal policy. It's like printing money. We have built-in security devices in the tickets, the printer has strict security internally. Only one man knows the total scope of the things we have done," said Bill Barron, general manager of the Creative Services Division of 
injured what our procedure would be. I haven't wavered from it," Levy said. "If he has medical clearance, which he has, and he looks OK, which he does, and he feels OK, which I have no indication that he doesn't, he's going to start." 
Kelly, who finished the season as the AFC's fourth-rated passer, said he's experimenting with a number of knee braces. 
"I felt much more comfortable in the lateral brace," he said. "We're going to see if we can get another (kind of brace), maybe a little bit bigger to see if it won't hinder me as much as far as the pain." 
Kelly said he was a little tenta­tive testing the knee at first. 
"Any time you get a injury, you're a little leery about mov­ing certain ways," he said. "But as practice wore on, it started feeling more comfortable. By the end of practice, I was NFL Properties in Westchester. 
That one man is Jim Steeg, executive director of special events for the NFL in New York and he refers calls about ticket printing to Barron. 
Barron will say only that the tickets are not printed in California and the same company has been printing them since long before 1977 when Barron went to work for the NFL. 
Creative Properties is responsible for the design, production and delivery of the tickets. 
almost doing things and not even thinking about it." 
Kelly said he wasn't sure he was 100 percent healthy, "but look at any player in this game who plays 16 games and four exhibition games.... I don't know if there's a player in the NFL who's been starting that is 100 percent." 
While his knee may not be completely healed, Kelly said his arm has benefited from the rest. 
"More than anything, my arm felt a lot better," he said. "It felt a lot stronger. I put a lot more zip on the ball." 
Kelly said he's anxious to play in his fourth AFC title game. 
"If you're a player 25 or 26, you can say maybe I'll have another chance again. But I'll be 33 next month," he said. "Your chances certainly dwindle when you get up in age." 
MIAMI (AP) -Some folks worry about bills in the mail. Tom Olivadotti frets about the Bills and the mail. 
In six seasons as the Miami Dolphins' defensive coach, Olivadotti has received countless critical correspondence, much of it inspired by collapses against the Buffalo Bills. 
Now, the young defense Olivadotti directs has propelled Miami into Sunday's AFC championship game against Buffalo. He received just one nasty letter all season. 
"It's a week-to-week thing," he said. "If you don't do well next week, you're a bum again." 
Miami last reached the AFC title game seven years ago, and during the interim Olivadotti became a scapegoat for fans and the media. The former University of Miami assistant joined the Dolphins in 1987, and in his first three seasons their defense ranked 26th, 26th and 24th among NFL teams. 
Improvement came in 1990, followed by a relapse last season. Miami's '91 defense ranked fourth-worst in the NFL, and one anonymous critic wrote Olivadotti every week. 
"He used to send me newspaper clippings and circle the want ads," Olivadotti said. "It's hard, because no matter what you say, you do take things personally. It bothers you." 
The Bills bother Olivadotti 
more. Two years ago, by 
repeatedly burning Olivadotti's blitz, Buffalo racked up 493 yards and 44 points to eliminate Miami from the playoffs. Last season, the Bills totaled 1,015 yards and 76 points in two victories over the Dolphins. 
Finally, at Buffalo last September, Miami made a breakthrough. Olivadotti switched to a four-man pass rush that harried Jim Kelly into four interceptions and the Dolphins won 37-10. The Bills took a November rematch 26­20 with nary a turnover, but Miami's defense played well. 
The four-man front, which assigns ex-linebackers Marco Coleman and David Griggs to rush the quarterback, became Olivadotti's base defense. Now he plots fresh frills for Sunday. 
"It's a fine line between being too strategic and not strategic enough," he said. "You don't want to change so much that you screw up your own players." 
Coach Don Shula this season gave Olivadotti more talent to work with. The Dolphins devoted their first five draft picks to defensive players, and three will start Sunday ­Coleman at end, Troy Vincent at cornerback and Dwight Hollier at inside linebacker. 
Stronger, tougher and deep enough to overcome the loss of injured Pro Bowl linebacker John Offerdahl, the Dolphins' defense rose to 1Oth in the NFL. Olivadotti's exuberant youngsters allowed just 100 yards rushing per game, a franchise record. 
YOU MAKE THE CALL 
* * WHAT WILL YOUR RESUME LOOK LIKE? * * 
• 20-30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 

MARK ITABUL ADORES I C~Jrent: Hame: 666 Some Hall 13346 South Oek Dr, None Oeme, lncllel"'ll 48668 Golden, Colorlldo 80401 12191 831 ·7460 13031 666·9486 EDVCAnoN Urinrlllty of Notre Dwne, 8Khefor of Ar~: 1994 Major: Your Major Here Minor: Wtwt Ev• You Uke  vs.  NORM L. DOMER ADDRESS CUI'rent: Home: 665 Some HeU 13346 South Oek Dr. Notre Deme, lncUeM 48668 Golden, Coloredo 80401 [218)1134-7460 13031 666-8486 EDUCAnON Mejor: Your Mejor Here Minor: Whet Ever You Uke  
EXPERIENCE Student Celler, Notre Demo AnnUIII Fund Phone Center Univeuity of Notre Oeme, Jenu.ry, 1993to Mey, 1894 e Re.po,.lble for pereonal, telephone follow-up of Annuel Fund .allcltetion ~«tt•• • Rei•ed over t60,000 for tne Untv••lty which w• ...eel to help renovete Secred Hurt Church end L.a Fortune Student Center, to provide funding for •choler•hlp• end underwrite tne deity o,_etlng co•t• of Notre Oeme • Eerned ~op Cefter• •t.tu. during the epring 1893 •emMt• • OtrVtHopod nogotletlon technique. end lnter,.eonel communlc.nlon eklll• • Served • e !leleon between the Unlv••lty end lte elumnl  EXPERIENCE Buro-r ftipper, bt·O-Rlime South Bend, lndiene, Septembet 1991 to pr•ent •cooked over 60,000 burger• •eerved driv&thru, ee'C-In, ltnd teke out cu.tCMTI•• • meneoed ov• 600 CUltom• ord•• a.ch dey  


• 
$5.30 per hour • meet new people 

• 
nexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


INTERESTED? 

Please join us for an informal 
PEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSI 
Thursday, January 14th 4:00 -6:00p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 

If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffmet (631-7241) 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1993
f 
I I Southwest, Big Eight discuss benefits tof alliance 
possibility of Texas and Texas A&M leaving the SWC. 
Missouri and Colorado have been linked to expansion specu­lation involving the Big Ten and Pacific-1 0 conferences, respec­tively. 
Big Eight officials agreed to the concept of an alliance with the SWC at the 1990 NCAA convention in Nashville, Tenn. But no specifics in scheduling could be resolved, particularly in basketball. 
The Big Eight has built a stronger reputation as a bas­ketball conference and its coaches recently voted not to pursue a basketball challenge series with the SWC. 
sion contracts, particularly if the College Football Associa­tion's contract with ABC-TV is not extended beyond 1995. To­gether, the leagues have 16 percent of the national televi­sion market. 
-More non-conference foot­ball games and a basketball challenge between the leagues. In 1993, seven SWC schools will face seven Big Eight schools in football and in 1994, all eight will play a crossover contest. 
-Negotiating a contract with the new Alamo Bowl in San Antonio. Such an agreement would pit non-champions from both leagues while maintaing existing contracts with the Or­ange and Cotton Bowls. The in­augural Alamo Bowl on Dec. 31 will have a projected $1.2 mil­lion payout per team. 
"All of the CEOs present thought there was merit on additional study of these and other proposals," Pye said. "None thought we had sufficient detail in which to act, but all of us will benefit from a more formal study." 
SWC officials have sought an agreement with the Big Eight since Arkansas announced in 1990 that it was departing the SWC for the Southeastern Con­ference. Soon afterwards, talk spread of the formation of "super conferences" and the 
DALLAS (API -The presi­dents of the Southwest and Big Eight eonferences on Wednes­day directPd their commission­ers to prepare a report on how an allianee might benefit both leagues. 
"There was no endorsement of the eoncept of a merger," said 
A. Kenneth Pye, president of Southern Methodist University. "It is much premature to consider anything along those lines." 
Pye said the report by SWC commissioner Fred Jacoby and his counterpart, Carl James, is due before the leagues' respec­tive spring meetings in late May. 
"We're just exploring all types of cooperation that will strengthen both conferences and provide a safety net for both of us," in the event of school defections or new televi­sion contract arrangements, Jacoby said. 
The report will focus on the feasibility of: -Joint negotiations of televi-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Cross Country ski equipment may be rented from RecSports at the Hoek Thursday through Sunday. For more information about times and eosts eall RecSports at 631-6100. 
RecSports is offering courses and classes in scuba diving, water aerobies, and cross country skiing. The classes start January 20 so stop by the RecSports office in the JACC to sign up. 
Entries are being taken for campus racquetball doubles for men and women and co-ree volleyball, interhall team racquetball, and grad/faculty/staff volleyball. The entry deadline is .January 20. Entries for campus indoor soccer for men and women, badminton doubles for men and women, and co-ree water volleyball and the interhall swim relays are due January 27. 
Saint Mary's varsity softball practice starts January 18 at 
6:15 p.m. in Angela. The practice is open to anyone who is interested in playing. Please bring physical forms. 
The Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting on January 20 at 7:30p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. All new members are welcome. If you have any questions, call Megan at 634-2784. 
The Badin Aerobathon will be held January 23 at Stepan Center from 9 a.m.-5 p.m.. Classes will begin every hour on the hour alternating between high impact and a combination of high and low impact aerobics. The fee is $3 for unlimited elasses and all proceeds go to the Women's Care Center in South BPnd. 
The Crew Team/Club will hold a meeting for all men's varsity and novice rowers on January 18 at 7:30 p.m. at a location to bP announced. 
Playoff 
continued from page 16 
tion. "Eventually, there may be one. But it is not a top priority right now. Media and fans are the groups that are promoting a playoff, although I do get the sense that coaches and athletic directors are changing." 
Georgia athletic director and former football coach Vince Dooley, long a playoff advocate, was excited at the news of Schultz's speech. 
"This is the kickoff of the dis­cussion," Dooley said. "I think there needs to be an education of what we're talking about, how you select teams, all these things." 
Asked why most coaches op­pose a playoff, Dooley said: "Because you call it a playoff. You never want to use the word playoff because the word play­off scares people off. Call it a national championship game." 
In reality, a championship game was held this year when No. 2 Alabama beat No. 1 Mi­ami in the Sugar Bowl. But the game was the result of the new bowl coalition and not part of an official playoff system. 
Members of the powerful NCAA Presidents Commission said Schultz did not mention the playoff idea during their four­hour meeting Wednesday morning. 
A playoff would have to get the approval of the Presidents Commission, which has taken control of the legislative proeess in recent conventions. A playoff would also seem to conflict w;ith the presidents' reform movement, which is designed to put academics above athletics. 
In recent conventions, the presidents have overruled ath­letic interests and mandatHd reductions in practice time and playing seasons, scholarships, games and coaches. 
If the Presidents Commission allows a football playoff, it would likely face appeals from basketball, baseball and other interests to restore the cuts made in their sports. 
"Obviously, we have been try­ing to reduce seasons and try­ing to be sure that we under­stand we cannot continue to grow the athletic house," said Wake Forest president Thomas Hearn, a prominent member of the Presidents Commission. 
"Clearly, any step we take that's contrary to those direc­tions will have to be carefully considered. I don't object at all to the idea being discussed." 
"If it were to be a further re­duction in the amount of time student-athletes have in their academic work, the Presidents Commission would oppose it," commission chairman Gregory O'Brien said. 
"If it were put in the context where it did not have negative effects on the time demands on student-athletes, l don't know that on that basis, the presi­dents would oppose it. The is­sue came up last year and the Division 1-A presidents did not favor moving to it. They felt the modified bowl structure should be tried to see if it could pro­duce a national championship, and it did." 
Luckily, two impressive close wins over Dayton and those
Point 
dorks from Stanford have resurrected my spirit and lifted
continued from page 16 
my confidence in our ballclub. tournament win in over 45 In fact, thanks to continued 
The Observer
years by beating New Orleans steady play from Monty and St. Joseph's (Pa.) to capture Williams and hot shooting from the Sugar Bowl Tournament freshman phenom Ryan title. Hoover, the Irish have climbed 
is now accepting applications for 
up to an outstanding 7-5 on the 
However, my dreamy bliss year and made me the happiest turned into a nightmare as the Irish hoops fan on South Quad. Irish fell into a wretched That was until I glanced at shooting slump and lost three the schedule and saw that the 
1993--94
straight to USC, Xavier, and Super Sophs of Michigan were yes, Detroit Mercy again, on tap this Saturday. Well, despite an encouraging remember, we're at Notre comeback against the Trojans. Dame. We can always pray. 
EDITOR~IN~CHIEF 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS 
Any full-time undergraduate at: Notre Dame or
CATCH 'EM 
Saint ~ary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in
TONIGHT 
journalism and should possess solid 
Women's Basketball 
communications and public relations skills. A 
vs MCC rival 
background in writing, editing and/or 
Detroit-Mercy 
management is helpful. Previous newspaperJACC 7:30PM 
experience is also helpful, but not required.

"'). 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page P.ersonal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Frtday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact Monica Yant at The Obseroer, 631-4542 . 
*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 


.---------~-----~-­
Today 
Thursday, January 14, 1993 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 15 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Lugs of jugs 65 Sea duck 1 Better 32 Right a 66 French grounded ship connections
6 Batters 10 It ends in Oct. 36 Clinch 67 Bell sound 13 Quay 41 Over: Ger. 68 Silvery fish 
43 Algerian port 
14 Part of Q.E.D. 
44N.F.L.
15 A-to-U trio 
DOWN
workaholics'
16 Workaholics' 
delights? 1 Jungfrau's 
offices? 51 Hairy locale
20"The 
2 Ecuadorean 
Godfather" 52 Kindle 
novelist Juan 
character 53 Crest 
Le6n-­
21 "Oat ole-, 
54 Like a 
3 Flat 
sea": O'Neill 
workaholic's 
4-egg
22 Tuck away workday? 
5 Abstain 
24 Mont. 's capital 59 Workaholic's 
6 Furnish with a
telegram?
25 Workaholic's 
new housetop 
beads? 63 Falsify 
7 "Talkers-no 30 Base place 64 Night light good doers": Shak. 8 Singer Davis ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Tale: Abbr. 1oIll. city 11 One who sifts 12 City near Milano 17 Biblical preposition 18 Tex. city 19 Side dish 
t-::::11-':'-t-::+.:+::-t--=+=+'-+-"~ -::-:+::+':-+":""! 23 Anguish 24 Mister, in Bonn 25 Stk. holding 26 Like Winkie 27 Poleman? 28 Go -out (hustle) 

33 Start 
BILL WATIERSON 


34 Hershfield hero 35Pro­
Lutheran
37 Hawaiian dish 57 City on the Oka 
theologian
38 Pat Bradley, 58 Saucy
48 Languishing
e.g. 60 Pass catcher 49 Switch ending 
39Young man 61--Darwinism so City of Brittany
40 U.S.N.A. grad. 62 Piper's issue 42 Ump's kin 44 Moonfish 
Get answers to any three clues
45 Manly 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
46 Writ against a debtor 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1203 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Moses parting his hair 

Impolite as they were, the other bears could never help staring at Larry's enormous deer gut. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
• 



Only 344 more shopping days until Christmas. 


.. 
.. 
page 16 

JONATHAN JENSEN 
Game Point 
NO hockey, hoops, and the making of a fairy tale 
Just a couple of happenings that you might of missed while basking in the sun and sand of your home state. Meanwhile, I was back in Chicago. 
First of all. we all saw what our Irish did to those losers from Texas A&M (now means amputated and mortified). To make it worse. in addition to having to admit after the Cotton Bowl "Classic" that they were overmatched and out of their league, the A&Mers now have been forced to admit that they gave improper payments to football players in return for imaginary summer jobs. 
While all of us were working our lingers to the bone to scrape up some spnnding money, Greg Ifill was pulling in $1.200 a week for memorizing their dumb light song. 
Well. despite that little bit of good triumphing over evil. a couple of other campus teams have been working on their own fairy tale seasons. 
Tlw Notre hame hockey team, after suffering through countless one-goal lossf's to top-1 0 teams, are finally sm~ing things going their way. 
Aftnr a beginning that looked as if it would confirm all of the expert's predictions of a last place finish for Notre Dame in their CCII/\ return, the Irish haw~ come storming back and are 6-5-1 in their last 12 games, resembling such feared jugernauts as 
the Maine Black Bears (You're 
welcome. Chad). 
After sweeping a tough Ohio State 
squad last weekend, the Irish have 
even climbed out of the basement of 
the CCII/\, earning a three-way tie with 
Kent and Illinois-Chicago. A key for the 
resurgence has been the play of goalie 
{;reg Louder. who has been named the 
CCIIA/Michigan Hochy Magazine 
Defensive Player of the Week. 
For a team that was supposed to be 
lambasted by the powerhouses of the 
nation's toughest conference, the Irish 
have shown in their close losses to 
Michigan and Lake Superior Statf~ and 
in their recent run that they will be a 
team to contend with in the future. 
The Irish hope to continue their 
amazing string against league-leader 
Miami of Ohio on Friday and Kent on 
Saturday at the frightening House of 
Pain. formerly known as the JACC 
North Domn. 
Now let's move on to the other 
overacheivers on the block, the Fightin' 
Irish hoops squad, as they have been 
riding a roller coaster ride of their own 
and am currently on an upswing . 
.lust after we all left for break the 
Irish earned their biggest win of the 
young season, an overtime win over 
eurrnnt top-25 team Boston College. 
As I watched the triumph on the 
Sportschannel midnight replay (Nice 
vacation, eh?), I rnmembnr drifting ofT, 
dreaming of futurn upsets of top­
ranked Kentucky and powerful Duke. 
My visions continued as I caught the 
ESPN updates in Dallas and saw,that 
tlw Irish picked up their first 
see POINT/page 14 
INSIDE SPORTS 


Sports 
By JASON KELLY "I was pleased that we won those Sports Writer two conference games," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We're 
A rugged non-conference schedule definitely heading in the right is beginning to pay off for the Notre direction." Dame women's basketball team. Sophomore Letitia Bowen is 
Losses to 17th-ranked Purdue, leading the way. Bowen finished number-20 Georgia and second­with 18 points and 14 rebounds ranked Tennessee didn't hurt the against Xavier for her fifth double­team's confidence. Instead, the double of the season. She is now players have used their top-notch among the nation's top 20 competition as an opportunity to rebounders, averaging 10.7 per make themselves better. game. Her efforts also earned her 
It shows. MCC Player of the Week honors. 
After losing their first conference "She has really given us a game of the season to LaSalle and tremendous effort as a rebounder dropping a 31-point decision to and we hope she can continue to Tennessee, the Irish (6-5, 2-1) have score as much as she has," McGraw put together two straight conference said. "She has done it all with an 
wins. They look for their third in a injury to her foot that's not getting row tonight against Detroit Mercy at any better because the only way to the Joyce Center at 7:30p.m. cure it is to rest it for a couple of 
Their first conference win came at months." Dayton. All five Notre Dame starters There's no time to rest now. • scored in double figures, led by The conference season is heating senior Sherri Orloski with 16 points. up and two more top-20 teams are Junior Kara Leary, starting her first on the horizon. game since December 4, added a Detroit Mercy visits the Joyce career-high 11 as the Irish cruised to Center tonight and Loyola comes to 
a 72-60 win. town Saturday. 
A trip to Cincinnati to face Xavier Detroit Mercy enters the contest was next in Notre Dame's travel with a four-game winning streak and plans. Xavier was the preseason in second place in the MCC. The 
favorite to win the Midwestern Ramblers have dropped their last two Collegiate Conference championship. and are 6-6 overall. Notre Dame was picked second. 
The pollsters must have been a The Irish have dominated both little confused. Notre Dame led for teams over the years, but they're most of the game and held off a late taking nothing for granted. Xavier rally for a 64-56 win. The Musketeers were within two late in "We have to continue to play well," the game, but solid free throw McGraw said. "Detroit is shooting down the stretch kept the tremendously improved and every Irish on top. conference game is important." 
Schultz urges NCAA to consi<:Jer playoff 
DALLAS  (AP)  - In  a  
surprise  move,  NCAA  
executive  director  Dick  

Schultz told the group's convention Wednesday to consider a Division I-A football playoff as a source of much-needed new revenue. 
Whether Schultz's suggestion brings a playoff closer to reality remained a point of debate among convention delegates. But raising the issue in his annual state-of-the-association address was certain to renew debate. 
"I realize many of you are opposed to a full-blown playoff system," Schultz told delegates. "It would be possible to develop a single championship game after the New Year's bowls, and provide substantial revenue. 
"1 want to make it very clear that I'm not pushing or advo­cating a playoff. But as we look ahead to challenging times, we need to be thinking about it and talking about it, so that when the future comes and we need to move in this direction, we're going to be prepared to do it." 
Later during a news confer­ence, Schultz emphasized that his raising the subject doesn't signal the beginning of a play­off system, something most coaches have opposed and most football fans would wel­come. 
Schultz noted that NCAA members have ignored his suggestions in the past. 
"I suggested a tenure plan for coaches. I suggested we allow athletes to test the waters of the draft and .::orne back," he said. "The membership is going to do what they want to do. Part of my responsibility i5. to stimulate their thinking." 
Schultz said he felt a one­game playofl' would be worth $50 million to $60 million and he would want it distributed among the entire NCAA mem­bership, similar to the way revenue is distributed from the popular men's basketball tournament. 
"This is just like a lot of other things I do," he said. "I need to put things out there to stimulate their thinking. They just need to be thinking about it. We're a long ways away from one right now, I guarantee you that, whether it's a single game or what." 
Coaches and administrators have generally opposed a playoff, saying it would in­crease pressure on everyone involved and extend an already long season. Playoff plans have been proposed at previous NCAA conventions, but none gained widespread support. 
A playoff would have to be approved by majority vote of the 106 1-A schools, the major football programs. 
"A playoff is not at the top of our priority list," said Chuck Neinas, exeeutive director of the College Football Associa­
see PLAYOFF/page 14 
Kellly will start for Bills Sunday 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. (AP)-Jim Kelly will start for the Buffalo Bills in Sunday's AFC Championship against the Miami Dolphins, assuming his knee shows no ill effects from Wednesday's practice. 
"We'll see how he comes in tomorrow," coach Marv Levy said. "If there aren't any after-effects of today's praetice and he's OK, he's our guy." 
Kelly sprained his right knee in Buffalo's regular season finale against Houston and has missed the Bills' first two playoff games. 
Wednesday was Kelly's first practice since the injury, and the four-time Pro Bowl quar­terback said his leg felt "pretty good." 
"As practice wore on, I started getting more comfortable with it," Kelly said. "Hopefully. I won't be re-injured between now and Sun­day. As of today, I took the majority of snaps 
AP file photo 

see KELL V /page 14Buffalo's Jim Kelly, shown here after a Frank Reich touchdown pass, will'start Sunday. 






