
Friday, October 1, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 25 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S , 
Dallmayr speaks on equality 
By W.HUDSON GILES News Writer 
I "Equality without mediation" 
typifies "Modes of Cross­
I Cultural Encounter.. according to Government Professor Fred Dallmayr in his recent thesis
f 
and mono-symposium topic. 
Dallmayr spoke at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies on
r 
Thursday focusing on the inte­gration of Western cultures during the Age of Exploration. 
The seminar. conducted and sponsored by the Kroc Institute. directed its attention toward comprehending the attitudes of different cultures 
during the exploration peri­od using such examples as the Spanish 
Inquisition into Central and South America in the early 1500's. 
Dallmayr elaborated on the Spanish Inquisition claiming. "Their aim was to create a global empire under a guiding mission. not a haphazard oper­ation." 
Dallmayr also specified that both Islam and Christianity deeply believed they had a mis­sion to globalize during that expansion era. 
Military conquest relating di­rectly to the Spanish 
Inquisition. Dallmayr cited. was based on asymmetry or hegemonic power relation with examples such as Columbus' and Cortes' conquest over the Americas and the attempted conquest of the Philippines. 
Dallmayr called this "out­right domination" and said, 
"Different cultures have to be assimilated into dominant cul­tures." 
He said that that 70 million Native American inhabitants including those from central and southern regions were killed as a result of violent con­flict or indirectly by disease due to the western invasion. "There is a natural superiority between men of different cul­tures", he went on to say. 
Dallmayr touched on other related topics such as assimila­tion and acculturation. conflict and class struggle. as well as liberalism and minimal engagement including dialogi­cal engagement. 
"We are aware of the strains and limitations of the Melting Pot". he said in response to a question regarding the failure of the Melting Pot theory. 
Dallmayr attended the University of Munich in Germany 
and later went on to receive his doctorate degree from Duke 
University. He has taught at Purdue, Oxford. and the University of Hamburg to name a few. He travels extensively and has spent many years in the Far and Mid-East studying the various cultures. particu­larly India. 
His social theory of moderni­ty and post-modernity has been widely acclaimed. 

Bosnian family leaves its war-torn home 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The once quiet town of Pesang. Bosnia is now in the front line of the hostile fighting taking place in the former Yugoslavia. forcing over two­hundred fifty thousand Bosnian families to take refuge elsewhere. 
Nusret and Jasminka Bahtic and their four-year-old son Denis were not alone when they packed two small satchels with their personal belongings and left their family members behind to pioneer a new life in the United States. 
The Bahtics. secretly spon­sored by a division of Catholic Charities in Zagreb. Croatia, were able to flee to the safety of South Bend on September 
17. where they were met at the airport by many people willing to help. including translator Anne Ivanis. Catholic Charities worker Caroline Nacakanja, and Saint Mary's seniors Ann Grant. Jennifer Toth. and Mollie Wheeler. 
"Everyone is so anxious to help out." Ivanis said. "We don't realize the extent of the freedom that we have in this country." 
Augusta Hall residents are sponsoring the Bosnian family as their Hall Service Project for the 1993-94 school year. 
"We are sponsoring our time." Grant said. "We are really excited about this ser­vice project and we hope to make their transition form Bosnia to America as smooth as possible." 
Augusta board members plan to fit residents into week­ly volunteer slots. They will be available for babysitting, tutor­ing and errand running for the 


The Observer/Elmer Danch Nusret and Jasminka Bahtic along with their four-year-old son Denis seek refuge in South Bend. The fam­ily escaped their war-torn home in Bosnia to start a new life in the United States. 
family. according to Hank. Bahtic. Bosnians have found a some­
"We told Catholic Charities Mr. Bahtic, a former sales-what safer environment. that we would help them in man and whole sale dealer in Many men have sent the any way that we can." Hank Bosnia, is open to any entry women of their families into said. level position. He has had safe zones similar to 
The Bahtics are living in a some experience as a painter Makarska. due to the number garage apartment in South and a carpenter's apprentice. of rapes and killings being Bend with host family Dave "Really. I will take any posi-committed by the armies on and Susan Nakielski and their tion available," Mr. Bahtic the front line. according to Mr. three children. said. Bahtic. 
"This has been a very re-"They are such industrious. Although these coastal towns warding experience," Mrs. smart. and hardworking peo-are safer. they are still lacking Nakielski said. "They are very pie," Mrs. Nakeilski said. "I severely in food, medical care. appreciative and just a joy to have a lot of admiration for toiletries. and items that most have." them. Completely starting Americans take for granted. 
The Bahtics hope to assimi-over is so courageous." "At home. almost everyone is late to life in the United States The Bahtics left her parents mostly worried and sad. and by getting their own apart-in Pesang and his mother and without hope," Mrs. Bahtic ment. learning English and sister in Makarska. a coastal getting jobs. according to Mr. town in Croatia. where many see BOSNIA 1page 3 
Ruffner and Rafaj win 



SAINT MARY•s 
SMC freshmen election 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 


ELECTION RESULTS 
Saint Mary's News Editor 


Saint Mary's freshman class voted Emily Ruffner and Anna Rafaj their new president and vice-president at yesterday's run-off elections. according to Elections Commissioner Elizabeth Broghammer. 
The Ruffner/ Rafaj ticket se­cured 45.5 percent of the votes. said Broghammer. 
"We campaigned until mid­night by hitting almost every freshman's room... said Ruffner. 
According to Ruffner. she hopes to start an interhall foot­ball program. "We would like to get this project started right away while the weather's still nice," she added. 
Other goals include having a SMC/ND freshman women's luncheon in order to better re­lations between the two fresh­man classes. Ruffner also hopes to start service projects which involve visiting senior citizens. 
The Beth Ann Miller/ Becky Kellogg ticket came in second place by gaining 27 percent of the votes. said Broghammer. 
"We definitely could have done a lot more."said vice-pres­idential candidate. Kellogg. "We are disappointed that we lost. Hopefully. we can partici­pate in other ways like hall council or freshman board." 
The Leslie Field/ Jennifer Augustine ticket received 26.5 percent of the vote and came in third place, according to Broghammer. 
"We gave it our all and we wish them the best." said presi­dential candidate. Field. "We still want to start an envi­ronmental club on campus and I think the freshman class is a great group of women." 
According to Broghammer. 52 percent of the freshman class voted in today's run-off elections and one percent ab­stained from voting. 
"A lot of the times between first elections and run-offs. it's pQssible that somebody's origi­nal ticket lost and they did not bother to vote." said Broghammer. 




' ­
page2 Friday, October 1, 1993
The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Tryout the campus bands 
Ahhhh...another Friday. What should we do 
tonight? 1Oth floor Flanner? A particularly raucous 2nd floor Stanford party? Perhaps one of the women's dorms? Hit-------­an off -campus joint or the bars even? Regardless of what you choose. the option of going to the Samples concert is gone...that was last Friday. 
The Samples. who were accepted as a "major band" this summer when they toured with the Rob Adams 
H.O.R.D.E. festival. did 
Day Editor 

not sell out the Notre Dame show last weekend. In fact. only some 1175 tickets were sold out of a possible 2000 and the SUB Music Committee suffered a 6000-dollar loss. 
I can understand that just as there were many reasons to go to the Samples show. there were many reasons not to go: Purdue trips. money problems. big dates. etc. but I don't think that those reasons consumed five-sixths of the Notre Dame undergraduate population. 
I can. however. completely sympathize with those who honestly felt that they could not afford to shell out the eight dollars for the Samples show. but believe me when I tell you that eight dollars was about as low as the SUB Music Committee could make it. 
Luckily for those of you with the money prob­lems. there is a solution: campus bands. At almost any event where a campus band plays. they charge no dollars or cents! And they play a lot more often than the ones who do charge. Just because you can't buy one of their CO's over at Camelot does not make it any less of a musical experience. Hey. just think. when you watch a campus band by stonehenge or out on the quad or on one of the Stepan fields. you won't have to deal with the "killer folding chairs with plastic fasteners." 
I am utterly shocked when I see the paltry attendance levels that have become fairly com­monplace at campus band events. In all cases. they are obviously not "doing it for the money" so their sounds are untamed and raw. the true necessities for college music. These bands are offering much more than their time, money. and effort; they're offering their soul. their music. for an audience, virtually any audience, to appreciate. 
Much props have to go out to Kate Babka. Joe Cannon. Robert Johnigan, and a host of oth­ers who have put forth a solid effort to unite this sometimes distant campus under one com­mon love. music. Their many attempts to brainstorm ways to bring people to campus band events are very similar to those of the SUB Music Committee ...and both are probably reaching a roadblock. 
In the next month. dozens of events will hap­pen which involve campus bands. If it is at all possible. come to hang, dance. or just listen to the music. And. most likely in less than two months. the SUB Music Committee will sponsor another concert. Give whoever it turns out to be a chance to entertain you...you may be sur­prised. 
What would it take to increase interest of campus concerts? Do they have to pay the audience to come? I don't know. I guess I just love music a little too much to let a campus con­cert pass me by...whether it's U2 or emily. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column ar those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TOOAV'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech Theresa Aleman Kyle Kusek Corrine Doran Production Mike O'Hara 
Bech Swiney Allyson Luck Vivian Gembara Sports Business Brain Kubicki 
Pancho Locano Viewpoint 
Graphics Allison Ebel 
Brendan Regan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
Quake kills 16,000 people in India 
UMARGA 
A major earthquake shattered the dawn quiet Thursday. collapsing mud and mortar homes onto sleeping families in villages across south­ern India. More than 16.000 died and many more cried for help from the wreckage. 
Authorities feared the death toll would rise substantially in India's worst quake in a haH century. 
Many villages were leveled so quickly as the earth shook violently and opened crevices that people were crushed inside their homes while sleeping. news agencies reported. 
''The rising sun created darkness for us this morning. swallowed up our villages. and made our houses into tombs." a survivor told a reporter. 
Some survived when frantic rescuers heard them shouting for help beneath toppled walls and roofs or saw a hand reaching out from the wreckage. 
Friends, neighbors and police strained to lift stone. brick and wood by hand to free victims. 
Soldiers and policemen rushed to the remote area of southwestern India, bringing stretchers. tents. medical supplies. earth movers. bull­dozers and mobile hospitals. But relief workers had trouble reaching some villages that recently lost their roads and bridges to heavy mon­soon rains. 
The quake. which measured at least six on the Richter scale. ripped through southwest India at 3:56a.m. It was felt at least 400 miles from the epicenter and caused a wide swath of damage. 
The death tolls given by state officials and news reports varied from 
6.200 to 16.000. and all appeared to be based on confirmed statistics and estimates. 
By nightfall the death toll was more than 6.200. said N. Raghunathan. chief secretary of Maharashtra. the hardest-hit state, adding that more than 2,000 bodies had been recovered. 
State-run Doordarshan TV raised the toll to more than 10.000 and said more than 12.000 people could still be trapped. The United News of India news agency later put the death toll at 16,000. 
About 10,000 people were injured. said Raghunathan. Telephone. 
electricity and water lines were cut in many areas. 
Gay says Peace Corps forced public goodbye 
WASHINGTON 
A homosexual Peace Corps volunteer claims in a law­
suit that his former boss ordered him to wave goodbye 
conspicuously to any male visitor to his home to show 
neighbors that the caller was not staying overnight. The 
charge was made in a $5 million lawsuit filed against the 
Peace Corps in U.S. District Court on Thursday by Paul 
Correri. a 64-year-old widowed grandfather who is a vet­
eran of the Army and Air Force. He contends that he was 
fired from the Peace Corps because he is gay and denied 
reinstatement even though an appeal board found in his 
favor. 

Board won't revoke child killer's parole 
ANGLETON 
A convicted child killer who was hounded out of sever­
al communities after his release from prison didn't vio­
late his parole when he was arrested after an argument 
at his grandparents' home, officials said Thursday. The 
ruling means Raul Meza. who has been jailed since Aug. 
31. will be able to continue his parole under mandatory supervision. Meza pleaded guilty in 1982 to the rape­slaying of an 8-year-old Austin girl. He served 11 years of a 34-year sentence and was released June 21. 
Madonna's Frankfurt erformance scratched 
FRANKFURT 
A politician said Madonna's stage show wasn't fit for 
young eyes. but in the end it was technical difficulties 
that scotched her performance. Norbert Geis. spokesman 
for Chancellor Helmut Kohl's conservatives in parlia­
ment. said the show "exceeded the bounds of decency" 
and should be off-limits for children under 16. 


NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 1 . 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
'' ''' 
jlndianapoli3 67° I 
• 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS flURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
City H L Dallas 91 61 Paris 59 48 Athens 81 64 Indianapolis 60 32 Philadelphia 61 52 Atlanta 70 50 Jerusalem 79 54 Reno 88 46 Bangkok 91 77 London 59 48 Rome 77 61 Boston 54 43 Los Angeles 90 69 Tokyo 82 70 
Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 61 31 Minneapolis 68 38 Washington 59 49 Cleveland 55 38 New Yo!X 57 4901993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 

Via Assoclated Press GraphiCSNet 

Major earthquakes In the lndilm subcontinent of the 20th eenlury. 
RIChteriCIItl Number Date: Location: magnitude: of dead; 
Jan. 15, 1934 Bihar-Nepal, India 8.4 10,700 May 31, 1935 Ouetta, India 7.5 30,000 Aug. 15, 1950 Assam, India 8.7 1,530 Aug.20, 1988 India-Nepal border 6.5 1,000 Oct. 20, 1991 Himalayan foothills. India 6.1 744 

Boutros-Ghali warns against withdrawal 
WASHINGTON 

U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has warned the Clinton administration that withdrawing U.S. peacekeeping troops from Somalia could condemn the people of that African country to a resumption of civil war "and all the horrors that would result." "It would also represent a humbling of the United Nations and of the efforts of the United States and other countries to restore peace and human decency to Somalia," Boutros­Ghali wrote in a letter. according to an account provided by a diplomatic official. 
Changes continue despite NAFTA debate 
MEXICO CITY 

At the grand opening of the world's biggest Wal-Mart. 
mariachi musicians sing love songs to a pair of women in 
short purple dresses touting Cannon Mills bath towels. 
Someone in a penguin costume does the cha-cha-cha 
across the slippery tile floor of the 244,000-square-foot 
Wal-Mart Supercenter while amused customers watch. 
''This place is enormous. You can get anything you 
want." shopper Julieta Rodriguez said this week. "Free 
trade has arrived. · · 
Teen pregnancy rates up again in U.S. 
ATLANTA 

The rate of American teen-agers having babies rose for the fifth year in a row. federal health officials said Thursday. For every 1.000 women aged 15 to 19 in 1991. the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 62.1 births. up from 59.9 births the year before. 
~------------~---------------------------------~--------------~----------------------­
Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Bosnia 
continued from page 1 
said, "and many times quite hungry." 
day. and a can of navy beans on the seventh day. according to Mrs. Bahtic. 
The Bahtics are spending this week getting immunizations. health care and dental work. according to Hanlc 

For the past year and one­"I cannot realize the wealth half. the Bahtics' meals have and material riches in your so­consisted of rice and bread for ciety. People walk around with five days days in a row. maca­smiles all of the time:· Mrs. roni and water on the sixth Bahtic said. 
...... 


.....,~,~~ 

FLOWER MARKET 
"WE DELIVER SMILES" 

YOUR NOTRE DAME CONNECTION 
THE BEST PRICES 
1 DOZ. 00@®~® $19.95 
1 ROSE -$2.00 
WE DELIVER! 
1635 Edison Rd Use your credit card & Across from charge by phone: Linebacker 272-0902 
Lante Corporation 
Premier Microcomputer Services 
Sometimes the right solution isn't obvious. Sometimes the obvious solution isn't right. 

oc 

Lante Corporation, an industry leader in the design, development and implementation ofClient/Server business solutions, will be on campus recruiting Monday October 4, 1993. Lante Corporation invites all interviewees, and any interested students, to an informal presentation from 7:00 to 9:00p.m. on Sunday October 3, 1993 in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center. 

Lante. 
When the obvious isn't. 


Haskin speaks on races 
By MARGARET VIDA News Writer 

It's up to Christians to make an effort to reach out to people outside their ethnicity. accord­ing to Glendora Haskin. associ­ate minister with the New Wings of Faith. a non-denomi­national church in South Bend. 
In her presentation at Thursday's Fireside Chat. Haskin offered a message filled with hope. and full of practical ideas. 
"We've got integration. What has integration given us? .. Haskin said that it is now time for Christians to change the tide of racism in America. because "the sin of racism has never been addressed ... 
"A change in legislation doesn't change attitudes. A change in law doesn't cause a change of heart. " said Haskin. 
Citing her own church as an example of Christian participa­tion. she referred to the success that they have had in bringing together people of different races at their Sunday morning services. This is to disprove the notion that ,"11 :00 on Sunday mornings is the most segregat­ed hour (of the week)... said Haskin. 
With regard to New Wmgs of Faith. she said. "We have not assimilated the culture of the majority: we appreciate the dif­ferences (between the minori­ties)... She said that it is not enough for people just to sit together; people need to make an effort to understand each other. 
Haskin described separatism as one of the most distressing forms of racism on college cam­puses . Referring to the African Americans' position. "we're sick and tired of being sick and tired. We reached out in the Sixties. and you slapped our hand." The new strategy of African American students appears to be ''doing their own thing," according to Haskin. 
Arguing that separatism is not the answer. she said that people need to leave their ''comfort zones" and be "inten­tionaL.. Haskin called for Christians to make an effort to understand learn about other races. She warned. "Don't abandon your own culture. You have to be understanding and open." 


fJuNLIICE _.CIMMPION 
Tf)fi.AII 
Tlae Botto Tlaat Botlvates • Is now available on over 30 items. each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 

Distributed by: 
1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 

209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
Look for theN' Image Logo on the tag. it's your guarantee of quality. Why settle for second best? 
Play Ulcr a Cham~on Today. "' pending 
--=-==--= -~-------=-:.:.._ --·_---..:.-=--~-----=--.:..::.:-=-==--=--·-:::-..:.-.=~--: iI 



LEADERSHIP 11 FORUM 
Open to all ND students for the development of personal leadership skills 
Oct. 4 Time/Stress Management Oct. 11 How to Coordinate a Project at ND Nov. 1 Ho\v to be an Effective Leader 
i 

'I

No\·. 8 EJecision iv1aking/Problen1 Solving 
'I

Nov. 15 Creatin~ ChatH.!e in an Organization
~ 

..... ...... 
i 
; I 
7:00 Pl\1-8:00 Pl\1 i Notre Dan1e Roon1 (La Fortune Student Center) Refreshments provided 
I 
I 
' 
page 3 

oflncoming t~lephpne call gridlockand busy~ness is not a new obstacle at Saint Mary•s.accordiJlg(g the Scpnt Mary·s Telecommunication~ Coordinator Sandy Handley. 
'Illis problem occll.fs when in,coming calls utilize all 68 tqmks~. or ·lines •. servicing the c~ptpus. Th~ result bt a f~st • bliSy _ _. . and the inability 
·.--phone.-.ou_~-"•ut~ 

stud,ents to uu••A"' more outgoin,g calls~inStead of••-receiving.'calls.>l•·suggest that they also make shorter calls in length or caD people back on outgoing lines.'" 

Accor<fing to. Handley. stu~ dents have complained about this for at least. the past five years .. Usually. phone grid:­Jo.~~ is only repor~e<l two. to 
·three times per week but laSt year complaints increased dramatically. ·w __ . .__ .<t 
-..we were receiving two 'or three reports per day." she said...ldo not know why the number of complaints in­creased so much because ther~ _was the same amount of business as in previous years. However•.this year the reports have dropped back down to a normal level. .. said Handley. 
A Le Mans Hall fr~shmen. Kristin Wisniewski has experienced this gridlock already this year. · 
"Recently. a friend attempt­ed to call 15 times but received the busy tone every time even though no one was on our phone.·· Wisniewski said...On another occasion. I waited for a call from the Le Mans lobby so that I could meet a friend. but it took him nearly an hour to get through. He had to wait in the lobby." 

.--~---------~-­
Friday, October 1, 199 3 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Carroll Auditorium Admission: $200 
'~~ 

Canadian court
•


agatnst suicide doc 
.ruled 
narrowly on Th:ursday ~ ..that a woman·inthtftermi­. nal''stages{of Lou>Gehrig·s disease cannot have a doc.. tor help her commitsuicide~ The court·s 5..4 decision 
my·life:·she said-in docu.­~ mentsJpres,nted to the ·Supreme CoUft "l__.want to be th~ .Q.Jle wno doesthe 
.. final deed.lf~l ihatit's my · 
::,' .-.~-:·' .-_':'?¥(::=::· :; :-:·-.· .. 
ao)ootrt·t.e<cr by the 
...:nn.......... n. decision.-· 
.~.~•))le3.1sed thatfour very str<>ngjudges were on her~side4j · _;t&lki:¥ · · 
. ' '·-;::~::: ::.:: )\:-:-'\"::_::: ·-_•._._·::_:·:.·.•.·.=-.·_.·.._•.:_,_~..·.:.·_-:·_.·_,_{ ..-.-.-.-~­
0

.--~:8~=??:;'•:;, ;;:p·::
r . :-, , 

-·•she •·f:i~.t~ ~Jits 0 shoidd · hopefully be'ilij impetus Cor · ·. Parliament ~9 ~'Ventually ad~ .. dress the isstl~~'~lt~·said.;;t·.-· •. · 
In his-majoruy ..opinl()n. Justice John Sopjnka wrote: ·•mven the eoncerns about abuse and the great _difficulM 
._ ty in cr~ating appropriate -•· safeguards. the blanket pro... hibition on assisted suicide is not arbitrary or unfa.U-.t:r -_ 
··-::Y.~·:::<'······ 
.:::H::: 

But Chief JusUce Antonio 
•.Lamer wrote_ in ltjs_ di$sent.. 
·· ing opinionJhat ...whlle.~J.t . first sight (the law) is apparently neutral tn Us 
application ... it prevents persons phys.k:ally unable to end their lives unassisted from choosing suicide. when that option is ••. avail­able to other members of the public without contra,­vening the law."Suicide is not illegal in Canada. 
Also joining the dissent. Justice Peter Cory wrote: ..Dying is an integral part of living and. as a part of life ... itfollows that the right to die with dignity should be as well protected as any other aspect of the right to 
life... 

Sabina McLuhan of 
Campaign life Coalition. an anti-abortion group that also opposes doctor-assisted suicide, praised the deci­sion. 

Lybia works to avoid Tempers fray in Hong sanctions for bombing Kong negotiations 
By ANDREW KATELL 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
libya showed no new sign of cooperation Thursday in turn­ing over two suspects in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland. a day before a deadline to surrender the pair. 
But the United States. Britain and France eased pressure on Tripoli. saying they planned to circulate a draft resolution Friday to toughen sanctions against Libya but would not press for its immediate adop­tion. 
"We're not pressing for its adoption but we're putting it there for discussion." said France's ambassador. Jean­Bernard Merimee. 
Asked when France would start pressing for the resolu­tion's adoption. Merimee told reporters. "We haven't set a time limit.•• 
The three nations had set a deadline of Friday for Ubya to surrender the suspects. 
Merimee explained the delay by citing "good will" and "encouraging words" from libya. which said Wednesday it was urging the sus ects to 
Celia Patawaran is finally 21 ! 
Happy Birthday! 
Love, Livewire 




A, X, Z Grad p1an buyers welcome! 
At .Jefferson and Cedar ~treets Mishawaka 
agree to a trial in Scotland. 

The two are charged with carrying out the December 1988 bombing over Lockerbie. Scotland. that killed 270 peo­ple. They are also wanted in connection with a 1988 French airliner bombing. 
The Security Council imposed an air and arms embargo and diplomatic sanctions on Libya in 1992 to pressure it to turn over the suspects. 
The new sanctions would ban some Ubyan oil equipment pur­chases -except for oil drilling equipment -and freeze some Libyan assets abroad. The new sanctions would also bar sales of equipment used in Libya ·s terminals and other transporta­tion facilities. 
No outright ban on oil im­ports from Ubya was planned. because of objections from Europeans who buy much of Libya's 1.5 million barrels a day in exports. In addition. the freeze on libya's assets abroad does not apply to the proceeds from future oil sales. 
The new sanctions would be unlikely to have much affect on Libya's $9 billion a year in rev­
enue from petroleum exports. 

--... 

By MARCUS ELIASON 
Associated Press 

HONG KONG 
Hong Kong's leading pro­democracy group said the British government had lost its nerve in talks with China on the colony's future and was "on the brink of total capitulation to Beijing.·· 
The accusations came in a strongly worded letter to British Foreign Minister Douglas Hurd on the eve of a meeting Friday with his Chinese counterpart. Qian Qichen. at the United Nations in New York. 
The letter. made public 
Thursday. was from Martin Lee. leader of the United Democrats. and seemed to re­flect fraying tempers in Hong Kong. It follows a year of large­ly futile Anglo-Chinese jousting over how Hong Kong is to be ruled after it reverts to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. 
"It is now widely suspected in Hong Kong that the British gov­ernment does not have the backbone to follow through on its moral and political obliga­tions to us and is on the brink of a total capitulation to Beijing.'' Lee wrote. 
Lee is an outspoken cam­paigner for Western-style democracy and civil liberties. 


The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana and the Saint Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs present 

dance ensemble 
Wednesday, October 6, 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets $12* 
*Discounts for senior citizens, students and groups. Tickets on s~le ~t the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Aud~tonum, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard, D1scover orders and ticket information at 219/284-4626. 
. 1%1--­
Samt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

Friday, October 1, 1993 page 5
The Observer • NEWS 

The Observer/ ScottMendenhall 

Rolling into fall 
Flanner Hall junior Mark Carolin and Flanner Hall sophomore Rich Besse spend some quality time rollerblading across campus. 
Class of '94 
• 

Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune Info Desk for $10. 
(titket prite intludes beverages, food, and a thante to win a trip to the Stanford game with 
titfcets, hotel, oirfore.J 4jl'iil! 
Cultural differences unite storytelling 
By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
Cultural differences abound­ed at last night's "A Night of Storytelling from Mexico, India and Italy" as speakers told sto­ries about religion. ball games and education in their native countries. 
In speaking of the Mexican culture. Beatriz Sen attributes the cultural differences in her native Mexico to the mentality of the people. 
"The psychology of people in Mexico is different," she said. 
Contrary to some beliefs. there are three classes of soci­ety in Mexico -low. middle and high, she said. 
"The poor. uneducated peo­ple are nicer," she said. "They are more simple. honest and naive. but in a nice way." 
Sen has lived in the United States for seven years and her husband is a mechanical engi­neering professor at Notre Dame. 
Students at private universi­ties in Mexico are much like Notre Dame students. accord­ing to Sen. 
"The boys and girls are up-to­date with movies. dances. mu­sic and fashion," she said. 
People need to be more aware of other cultures. Sen said. 
"Be tolerant of other people and recognize that some of their ways may be as good or better than yours," she said. 
While Mexican students often attend private universities. Indian students' education is subsidized by the government. according to speaker Runa Mozumder who has a long his­tory with Notre Dame. 
A major is required of Indian students just like in the United States, she said. 
Mozumder has lived a way from her native India for over 25 years. She has undergrad­uate and master's degrees from Notre Dame.Also. her husband is a professor at the radiation lab in the chemistry depart­ment. 
"India is a diverse country." she said. "We have every reli­gion under the sun." 
One of the major religions in India is Hinduism. 
"Hinduism is more like a philosophical thought. and a social conduct." she said. "It is a manifestation of your imagi­nation because the god is very abstract." 
The Italian speaker. professor and speaker Giovanna Lenzi­Sandusky. has lived away from her native Italy for 13 years. She teaches Italian to architec­ture students going to Rome. 

: ~4 : 
•• • 
OMEQ • •
• •• •• • • 
lp QUN '93 • • • • 
•
• UNIVEQ~ITY Of NOTRE DAMf • 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS • •• 
AND •
•
PANCAKE BREAKFAST • 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2,10:00 AM 
• AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD
•• tr..®IXJO~rn If@ a.\11.11. ~IMIJ®IXJ~!Fl® •• • 00 ~@ O®lr~ 00 OIM £ ©\\1a.\ 00©~ a.\lr IFl ~©®/ji>@~if® • ®~~®® OlN.I a.\©Wa.\00©~ ~ ~®..®® @LA\W @IF OOLA\©~ 
• ®lrl!JJ@~Ifflu a.\00© ®lr£1F~ @~\\JII®U©OO® 
... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 631-6100 • 
• 

BANKER 
Recruiting on campus November 12. 
• 
PNC Bank will be interviewing for Corporate Banking opportunities on Friday, November 12. 

• 
Our pre-night presentation will be held on Thursday, November II. 


(Check with the Placement Office for details.) 
• PNC Bank is a top superregional bank -the nation's lOth largest-with assets in excess of $53 billion. 
PNCBANK 
P'C Bank stri~·es to maintain a workplace that is reflective of the communiti~·· we o;en·e. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V. 
Mexican massacre ren1embered 
By BILL CORMIER Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Vietnam War protests swept the United States in 1968. and France endured a student uprising. In Mexico. a govern­ment-instigated massacre of young protesters scarred a generation. 
The 25th anniversary Saturday of the Mexico City massacre that killed hundreds of people has prompted an out­pouring of newspaper articles and soul-searching about the ''Generation of '68." The gov­ernment, long reticent about its role in the killings. has en­dorsed an investigation. 
"This was our blackest hour, our dark night in modern his­tory when our political system showed its violent side and the people died... said novelist Homero Aridjis. an outspoken social commentator. 
Aridjis said the massacre was a watershed event in that the system subsequently allowed public protests and criticism. The ruling Institutional Ruling Party tolerates now freedom of expression -as long as it does not seriously challenge its 64­year lock on power. 
On the night of Oct. 2. 1968. just days before the Summer Olympics opened in Mexico City. some 10,000 students and sympathizers gathered on the Plaza of the Three Cultures in Tlatelolco . 
They were demanding more freedom from the government of President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz. Instead. they were met by bullets . 
"The army was firing on us . It seemed like a war. just a horrendous massacre." said Heberto Castillo. then an engi­neering professor among the movement leaders. and now a 65-year-old opposition politi­cian . 
The students were demand­ing greater freedom of speech and protesting the money lav­ished on the Olympics while many Mexicans were going hungry. 
"There was a real sense among Mexican army and political leaders that this move­ment had legs and could quick­ly grow out of control." said Douglas Payne. a Mexico expert at the human rights group Freedom House in New York. 
London $269 St Petersburg $399 Belize City $229 Rio de Janeiro $505 Bangkok $619 
Airfares are each wey based on aroundtnp purchase and subject to change. Restrictions 
apply. Taxes not 1ncluded. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 

311-951·0585 

~ ~-~---~ ­

' l Friday, October l, 1993 
page6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS" 
l 
President Bill Clinton steps up NAFTA lobbying effort 
By JOHN KING Associated Press  Rep. Joseph Moakley. a Massachusetts Democrat. who despite his position as House  make a bad economy worse," Moakley said. "But I'm going to listen. I don't want to cut myself  
WASHINGTON  Rules Committee chairman had  off too early."  
While his wife grabs head­lines on health care, President  not been lobbied by the admin­istration on NAFTA until this week.  Daley's lobbying included an appearance Wednesday before  
• see BUSINESS, page 9  "They've been working other  the Democratic Budget Group.  
things  - health insurance.  a collection of moderates and  
f t  Clinton is quietly accelerating his lobbying for the North American Free Trade Agreement. courting undecided lawmakers with phone calls and White House meetings. The effort has stilled some of the criticism from NAFTA sup­porters who thought the White House was being too lackadaisi­ reinventing government." Moakley said Thursday. "I think they're working it hard enough now." Moakley was invited to a White House NAFTA meeting Friday. the first of several ses­sions planned with groups of roughly 20 undecided lawmak­ers. He also had a session  conservatives that includes Democratic Rep. Martin Frost of Texas. Frost. who is on the White House target list. also was visited recently by U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor. ''I'm still straight up uncom­mitted. not leaning either way." Frost said.  
cal in promoting the trade deal. and from many undecided law­makers who viewed the lack of administration contact as a sign the agreement was not a Clinton priority .But it has yet to produce many high-profile con­verts. "If we had the vote today. NAFTA would go down," said  Thursday with William Daley. the Chicago banker and politi· cal operative leading the ad-' ministration's NAFTA cam· paign. "My constituents are mostly against it because they fear it will mean more job losses and they don't want their con­gressman doing anything to  Rep. Bill Richardson. D-N.M.. is leading a team of a dozen pro-NAFTA lawmakers helping the administration try to over­come opposition. especially from House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri and Democratic Whip David Bonior of Michigan.  

Since Monday. Clinton has

..We're not getting any new 
tried to place three calls a day

converts but we are moving 
to people on a list of 1 1 0 unde­

people away from the hard 'No' 
cided lawmakers. Among his

category," Richardson said 
early targets: members of the
Thursday. 

Indeed. Rep. Howard Congressional Black Caucus. including Bill Jefferson of New
Berman. 0-Calif.. a former 
Orleans and Charles Rangel of

union Ia wy er. announced 
New York. whose port cities.

Thursday he would support 
the White House says. would

NAFTA. saying it will create 
benefit from expanded trade

high -wage manufacturing jobs 
in southern California and slow with Mexico. Also on Clinton's call list
illegal immigration by 
Thursday was Democratic Rep.
Mexicans. 
Robert Torricelli of New Jersey. 

6r e 's :J3isfro d2 Yl{;5ta 1' Qp~~ c~ ~~ ()V Fine dining at moderate prices ~o 
Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ Theatre l%rks Playhouse -upstairs at the Bistro 
Ask about catering 257-0400 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, October 6, 1993 8:00p.m.. Notre Dame Room ., 
Morris Inn Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. All majors encouraged to attend. Refreshments will be served. FALL INTERVIEW DATES: 
ACCENT November 11-12, 1993 (Information Systems Management) 
TTMP November 11, 1993 (Telecommunications) 
FMDP November 12, 1993 (Financial Management) 
MCEBO ASSOCIATES November 9, 1993 (Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 
·...~ ~eTravelersJ 
America's Umbrella sM 
Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page? 
Will The New York Post picket or will it publish ? 
By LARRY McSHANE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The New York Post, the tabloid that has weathered more punches than Rocky Balboa, faced a new fight Thursday before resuming pub­lication: an internal battle among its unions. 
Members of the paper's craft unions began crossing picket lines set up by The Newspaper Guild. said Post spokesman Pat Smith. It was the first crack in a united union front that held through five years of financial woes and near extinction. 
"In our hearts, we don't want to go in. But we have to save the New York Post," drivers union President Frank Sparacino told his troops in a rally outside the Post building. 
Monday's strike by the Guild. which represents 28 7 news­room. clerical and advertising workers. silenced the paper when the other unions refused to cross the picket line. 
The drivers and members of the pressmen's union -key staffers needed to get a paper out -normally report to work in the late evening. 
Earlier. about four dozen union workers. many of them typographers. entered the building through a back door. avoiding a confrontation with the picketers out front. 

.. We are going in for our jobs." Allied Printing Trades Council President George McDonald said as he walked inside. McDonald helped nego­tiate the deal to bring the unions back to work. 
An agreement with leaders of the nine non-Guild unions to cross the picket line was an­nounced Wednesday evening. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Make your next move to Hickory Village and discover affordabllity, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road. Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes learn sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bedrooms from $345 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio I>Jr Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free A'lrobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

272-lSS() 
+UCKORU 
VlLLAGEfH 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, S<!t. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

Attorney: attackers part of blind mob 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Reginald Denny's attackers 
were part of an unthinking. vio­
lent mob reacting almost blind­
ly to the acquittals in the 
Rodney King case. a defense 
attorney said Thursday. 
After four police officers were 
found innocent of beating King. 
the emotional climate on the 
streets was so volatile that no 
one could rationally plan and 
attempt a murder. Edi Faal 
said in his closing argument. 
Williams. 20, and Henry 
Watson. 29. are charged with 
attempted premeditated mur­
der in the Denny attack. which 
took place in South Central Los 
Angeles during the opening 
moments of the Los Angeles 
riots. They face additional 
felony charges for other at­
tacks. 
"People got caught up in the frenzy, were acting out their ~ustrations. thek disappoint­.ments." said Faal. who repre­
sents Damian Williams. ''They were ... consumed with emo­tion." 
Williams and Watson face life imprisonment if convicted of at­tempted murder. Williams also is charged with aggravated mayhem in the Denny beating. which carries a life term. 
Faal never conceded that Williams committed any crimes during the riots. He said prose­cutors couldn't even prove be­yond a reasonable doubt that Williams is the man seen on videotape hurling a brick into Denny's head. 
Faal's closing argument took seven hours over two days. Prosecutors were to present a rebuttal case before the judge handed the case to the racially mixed jury of 1 0 women and two men. Testimony has lasted for six weeks. 
The Denny attack came just hours after a state jury in Simi Valley acquitted four white po­licemen of nearly all charges in the videotaped beating of King, a black motorist. 
The Department of Music Presents 
A FACULIT'CONCERT 
l)(p,ren tBurans{as, ce{{ist 
Wif{iam Cerng, pianist 
MUSIC OF R6ZSA, CASSAD6 & VILLA-LOBOS 

Sunday October 3, 1993 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
The co:Cert is free and open to the public 
DOS Computer Users 
New Cluster Opening October 4th 
228 DeBartolo Hall 
Students from all colleges welcome. Groups receive preference over individuals.  •  ••  
Monday -Thursday, G:OO pm  -1:00am  
•  •  •  Sunday, 1:00 pm  -1:00 am  
!aCampus Clusters Group  

~ Office of University Computing 
WITH THIS AD 

G pACKAGE\N of TANNIN \\I Bef'd·
cHASE 2~.sou 
wrrH pUR '"s. s,. Rd· 
cornrr.c 0 \-vats\TY FOR DETAILS 
• 
BEST SERVICe! stop In to see our 

• 
BEST TAN! Solon. or call us at 

• 
BEST DEALI 272·7653 Expires October 15, 1993 



murder. ··. ·.· · ...· 
· · •..• Nld.for six mQnths. many of Ellie Nesler·s neighbor$ wa,tcb ed · and became ·tp.creasingly disillusioned With woman they bad 
after · .OWletS. intO cr.·,oi.Utr.tr.~ 
FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT CENTER 

54 Holes 
of Indoor 

Miniature Golf 
Open 7 Days a 'Week 

Mon.-Thur. 10 a.m. -I 0 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m. -11 p.m. Sunday 1 p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Country Sho_pping Center on Mckinley in MishaWaka 
254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 


page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 1, 1993 
Boris Yeltsin agrees to mediated talks 
Winter war in Sarajevo 
•
continues 
By TONY SMITH 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
With a second winter of war approaching following the fail­ure of the latest Bosnian peace plan. U.N. officials gave a stark warning Thursday of impend­ing hwnan catastrophe. 
"Hwnanitarian prospects for literally millions of people have never looked so bleak," said 
U.N. civil affairs chief Cedric Thornberry. "We are looking into an abyss." 
Thornberry spoke in Zagreb. Croatia, a day after the Bosnian parliament. for the second time in a month. reject­ed demands that the Sarajevo government concede military defeat and accept partition of the republic. 
U.N. 
officials have been warning for weeks that the lack of a peace deal will ham­per their efforts to reach 2.7 million needy people this win­ter. 

But Bosnian officials main­tain they don't believe the international plan would bring lasting peace and are deter­mined to continue pressing for more land in eastern Bosnia. Bosnian leaders also inSist that. on moral grounds. the Bosnian Serbs should not be allowed to keep land they took by force. 

U.N. 
officials acknowledged those argwnents but said they didn't change reality. 


"The idea of breaking up Bosnia into three countries ... has been criticized as morallyrepugnant." said Thornberry. ''But it is a lot less morally bar­baric than the slaughter we have seen for the past 18 months.·· 
He said it was essential for the peace talks to continue. 
In Sarajevo. spokesman Ray Wilkinson for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. also suggested that there may be tactical motives for politi­cians· actions. 
"For some. it's better to have a political symbol than having their people living on a slightly higher level." he said. 
'A Great Way fa get together with Friends or spend a Romantic Evening with Someone Special' 

WHAT KIND OF FOl"DllE 
DO \VE OFFER'! 
cht'Cse•hee f•, h1ckcn scat, 1od•ve !!l'tahk· l·l~m11 ng. d1· ,,, d,t!L' 

Experience Fondue Before Your Formai/SYR! 
W fi-"~". l"" r·s ·'"":.•r''"''!rl·kJ 0 I 
219-255-1526 -l 
----------------------I
lu(~:; !'•.. ·~~ ...,~ ... !I:·;J ~~) ;·~ l~ 1 I r .., ~ .~.·U ..,IJdtHi"::f Jl .nt "J ,, . r ' I . ;;;,q('L:\TI R•\11'-IH-\\\.\" \ !\~I ! Upper~ E'\ .;!1 u:d ~3·~wery R: Jq I 

By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin agreed Thursday to church­mediated talks with hard-line lawmakers in an effort to break the siege of parliament and end Russia's 10-day-old political crisis. 
Yeltsin's announcement came after a meeting at the Kremlin with Patriarch Alexy II. head of the Russian Orthodox Church. The patriarch's offer to mediate the power struggle underscored the church ·s growing influence since the decline of Communism. 
The president and patriarch agreed that closed-door talks will begin Friday at a Moscow monastery. 
There was no immediate comment from the leaders of the 100 or so lawmakers who have holed up in the parlia­ment building with a few hun­dred volunteer defenders since Yeltsin dissolved parliament on Sept. 21 and called new elec­tions. 
Earlier Thursday. Yeltsin's rebellious vice president. Alexander Rutskoi, toted a ma­chine gun at a news conference and vowed no compromise as long as Yeltsin remains presi­dent. 
Other hard-line lawmakers have said they were willing to negotiate if the church acted as mediator. 
Thousands of riot troops con­tinned to ring the building, known as the White House. Power. water and phones have been cut off to the building. and food supplies were running low. 
Yeltsin said he disbanded the Soviet-era parliament to break 18 months of political deadlock in which the lawmakers slowed the president's free-market re­forms and rolled back his pow­ers. 
On Wednesday. Yeltsin gave lawmakers until next Monday to surrender their weapons and leave the White House. 

BOOK SIGNING 
OCTOBER 4, 1993 at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE On the campus ofthe University ofNotre Dame 
2:00 -3:30 p.m. 

bestselling author of 
EVERYTHING I NEED TO KNow I LEARNED IN KINDERGATEN, IT WAS ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DOWN ON IT, UH-OH and MAYBE (MAYBE NoT) 
t 

BUSINESS 
Friday, October 1, 1993 
page 9 

Accounting Companies scramble as NAFTA debate rages on 
award given 
•

to sentor 
By KATIE CAPUTO 
Saint Mary's Business Writer 
A Saint Mary's College senior was given The Ernst & Young Accounting Achievement Award at the col­lege's annual Accounting Awards Banquet on Monday. September 20. 
Usa Monahan was acknowl­edged by the Business Administration faculty for being the most likely to suc­ceed in public accounting, according to Professor Claude Renshaw. 
"I am very excited about the idea of being recognized in the department by the faculty," Monahan said. 
The accounting firm of Ernst &Young sponsor the award at any college or university that has an accredited accounting program. Renshaw said. It is the faculty. however. who choose the most eligible stu­dent. 
According to Renshaw. the award has been granted to Saint Mary's students every year since the early 1970's. when the accounting program started at the college. "The award is a very prestigious award. and we're delighted to be able to present the award to the outstanding student every year," he stated. 
The award is based on acad­emic achievement. personality. and people skills. according to Renshaw. 
"Lisa is a very remarkable student, and has managed to put it all together very well." Renshaw said. "She was cho­sen from a very outstanding group of students." 
"This year's class of '94 is the best group we've seen here in many years.'' he added. 
According to Monahan. she was offered a position at Ernst & Young after she received the award that night. 
"I plan on starting my career in public accounting. most like­ly with Ernst & Young," Monahan said. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. Mercedes-Benz has selected Vance. a hamlet of 250 people in northwestern Alabama. as the site for its flrst U.S. plant. The decision. announced Thursday. settled a bidding war among five states. The $300 million facility will employ about 1,500 people making 60,000 sport-utility vehicles annually beginning in 1997. 
NEWYORK Last-minute compJicaUons in talks between Citibank and Apple Computer Inc. forced the two companies to put off the annoUncement of a new co-branded credit card. A source familiar with the talks. who spoke on condition of anonymity. said Thursday that the two firms had run into .. contractual snags:· 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
At the grand opening of the world's biggest Wal-Mart, mari­achi musicians sing love songs to a pair of women in short purple dresses touting Cannon Mills bath towels. 
Someone in a penguin cos­tume does the cha-cha-cha across the slippery tile floor of the 244,000-square-foot Wal­Mart Supercenter while amused customers watch. 
"This place is enormous. You can get anything you want," shopper Julieta Rodriguez said this week. motioning toward aisles crammed with tens of thousands of imported products With names like Fischer Price. Sara Lee, American Tourister and Nintendo. "Free trade has arrived." 
The new Wal-Mart is a win­dow on the future in Mexico. where relatively free trade al­ready exists. despite the debate in Washington over the pro­posed North American Free Trade Agreement. 
While Ross Perot warns of the "giant sucking sound" of American jobs moving south and environmentalists worry about ecological disaster along the border. much of what the agreement is intended to do has already occurred. 
"Under NAFTA. I don't think anyone should expect vast changes in the trade that al­ready is occurring between Mexico and the United States," said Thea Lee, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. which is critical of the accords. "Trade barriers already have come down pretty low." 

The agreement among Mexico, the United States and Canada would create the world's largest economic mar­ket. with 363 million people and a combined gross domestic product of $6.3 trillion. 
If it goes into effect Jan. 1 as scheduled, the agreement over 15 years would phase out most remaining barriers to the free flow of goods. services and in­vestment among the three North American neighbors. 
But in many ways. NAFTA will simply be formal recogni­tion of changes that have already occurred. especially during the last five years under President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. 
"Much of what the agreement is supposed to accomplish has been attained." said Gary Hufbauer, an economist for the Institute for International 
Economics.  a  Washington  
think-tank  that  supports  
NAFTA.  

The once-protectionist gov­ernment has thrown its econ­omy wide open since 1986, when then-President Miguel de la Madrid pushed Mexico into the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT. a world body that rules on trade disputes. 
Mexico has slashed import tariffs from as much as 1 00 
Budget cuts in defense spending hurt Marietta 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
BETHESDA, Md. 
Martin Marietta Corp .. citing cuts in the federal defense bud­get, said Thursday it has elimi­
nated more than 7,500 jobs this year and will let another 3.500 workers go over the next 15 months.The announcement by the defense contractor came as several other companies an­nounced major layoffs. includ­ing USAir. which said it was eliminating 2.500 jobs after a slow summer. Chemical Waste Management Inc.. which spe­cializes in hazardous waste dis­posal. said it would cut a fourth of its work force, affecting 1,200 people. 
Martin Marietta said its lay­offs of about 11.000 workers were "across the board" ­though mostly in its defense programs -at facilities in eight states from Daytona Beach. Fla .. to Burlington. Mass.. and Glen Burnie. Md. 

The defense industry giant acquired Gtmeral Electric Co.'s aerospace division last April. About 2,000 of the layoffs are mostly aimed at eliminating duplication created by the merger. company officials said. 
The company still employs about 94.000 workers. Its work force now is about 46,000 fewer than both Martin Marietta and GE Aerospace had in 1987. 
"Today's announcement meets our commitment ... to act quickly and decisively in strengthening the competitive posture of Martin Marietta. These actions recognize the re­alities of a tough marketplace," said Chairman Norman Augustine. 
At a news conference at the company's suburban Washington headquarters. 
Augustine said layoffs and con­solidation were necessary be­cause of "the very serious re­ductions in the defense budget" in the aftermath of the Cold War. 
The additional 1,500 layoffs this year were caused by the tightening Pentagon budget. he said. The company depends on defense contracts for about two-thirds of its business. 
The company announced de­fense-related layoffs in Colorado. Florida, Maryland. Massachusetts. New Jersey. New York. Pennsylvania and Tennessee. Because of jobs transfers. employment is ex­pected to increase at some fa­cilities, officials said. 
Augustine said the consolida­tion will save Martin Marietta $1.5 billion over the next five years. 
For example, the company will close its former corporate headquarters of GE Aerospace in Valley Forge. Pa.• and con­solidate its activities at the main headquarters. eliminating 40 percent of the headquarters staff positions. 
Company spokesman Phillip Giaramita said the company expects to reduce its work force by 9,000 this year; about 7.500 of those workers already have left. 
Augustine said while defense programs have taken a serious hit. he does not expect signifi­cant layoffs in the company's commercial or space-related programs. 
Ironically, Martin-Marietta's space program division was linked to three expensive and highly publicized embarrass­ments earlier this year. A Titan 4 launch vehicle. made by the company. exploded Aug. 2 shortly after liftoff. destroying an expensive military satellite. 
US Air to lay off2,500 jobs 
Associated Press 


ARLINGTON. Va 

USAir will lay off 2.500 workers. or more than 5 percent of its work force, because of expected losses this year including a $180 million pre-tax loss in the third quarter. the airline announced. 
The layoffs. which will begin in November and stretch through the first half of next year. are part of a broader cost-cutting effort. airline officials said. 
The airline. which employs 46.000. has had net losses of nearly $2 billion since 1990. including $55 million dur­ing the first half of this year . 
USAir has about 1.000 workers in Indianapolis. including those at an aircraft maintenance base and a tele­phone reservation center. 
USAir spokeswoman Susan Young said it is too early to know say how many Indianapolis employees will be affected . 
"'I can't give you a total on Indianapolis. It's premature ... but. certainly. there will be some impact," she said. 
Seth Schofield. chairman of USAir Group Ino., said that 1993 revenues during the peak summer travel season fell short of expectations and the com­pany expects both operating and net losses for the year. 

percent to the current average of a little less than 11 percent. Most permits once required on imports were eliminated. 
NAFTA is designed to institu­tionalize those changes. giving greater assurance to foreign investors that the policies are permanent. attracting the for­eign capital and technology Mexico needs to grow. 
It will also eliminate remain­ing barriers such as those that make U.S. produced cars pro­hibitively expensive here. 
Mexico's economy was in cri­sis when the government began liberalizing the economy by opening to foreign trade and investment. slashing govern­ment subsidies. selling off state­owned enterprises. 


OINT 
page 10 Friday, October 1, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor .................................]ake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It d~ not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Spotts  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  





Friday, October 1, 1993 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI GAIA SPEAKS 
We cannot be healthy humans livin within a sick system 

The development of new ideas depends upon participa­tion in open dialogue. Unfortunately. open dialogue is all too often hindered by partie­ipants failing to realize similar primary principles. and instead focusing on differing secondary principles. 
In the pro-life/pro-choice dia­logue, no new ideas will ever emerge because the two groups quibble over issues such as whether a fetus can be consid­ered a human when both groups come from the same primary principle that humans ought to be treated with respect and should be granted self­determination. 
For pro-lifers. the secondary principle established in order to ensure self-determination for all humans is that abortions should be illegal. For pro­choicers. the secondary princi­ple conceived to secure self­determination for all humans is that women should have con­trol over their reproductive sys­tems. 
Both groups have valid con­cerns, but until they can realize the similarity of their primary principles. they might as well 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

be speaking different lan­guages. 
Similarly. environmentalists. failing to establish common ground with their opposition, often struggle to create produc­tive dialogue. The two existing sides in the environmental debate are supporters of the Dominant Western Worldview (DWW). and supporters of the New Ecological Worldview (NEW). 
The DWW values a high qual­ity of life above all else. Therefore it can be concluded 

Who does Patty O'Hara think she is anyway -Janet Reno? 
Dear Editor: I could not agree more with Prof. Leslie Martin's astonish­
·ment at the vice-president for student affairs' "string of un­grammatical constructions and jargonized redundancies.. (The Observer. Sept. 29). For some time now. we law students have privately wondered "where and why" Notre Dame decided to hire Prof. Patricia O'Hara as a University official. 
Is she qualified simply be­cause she had graduated from our Law School in 1974 with a 
4.0 grade point average. Some suspect that Notre Dame was impressed with her years as an attorney with a high -powered San Francisco Ia w firm. Still others believe that she hood­winked the University by be­coming a popular and master­ful professor of corporate law on our Law School faculty for the ten years before she was hired. 
Clearly. the University would be better off if its officers were grammatically-correct, linguis­tically precise sophisticates like Prof. Martin. Someone who knows the definition of "super­cilious.. without even looking it up and knows that there is a hyphen between the words "anal" and "retentive." 
In short. it is high time that O'Hara devoted more energy towards avoiding grammatical redundancies with her trite, insipid, banal. and prosaic cliches and less energy towards making tough policy decisions and hard-line stands for Notre Dame ideals. 
NEIL BYRON CHAPMAN 
Law student 


en doutant Ia journee 
cachant Ia bestialite le soir tomberait malgre cette chanson trouvere que mon lit epure libere Ia grotte s"embrase pleine d~hwnour prenant le sein de rna mere 

by Jason Thomas Off-campus 
that the guarantee of conditions for a high quality of life for every person is the primary principle of the DWW. The sec­ondary principle, however. holds that every person. through competition in the eco­nomic system. has the opportu­nity and the right to achieve such a high quality of life. 
The New Ecological Worldview (NEW). which simi­larly holds as its primary prin­ciple the guarantee of a high quality of life. diverges from the DWW in its secondary princi-
Is evolution part of God's grand plan? 
Dear Editor: I would like to address Pieder Beeli's letter to the editor (Sept. 
27) and his condemnation of the Notre Dame Administration for "lacking the courage to teach Biblical creation exclu­sively," and thereby perpetuat­ing the spread of racism on our campus. 
Beeli argues that evolution ..encourages blacks to stay out of academia...and to pursue instead the athletic arena where blacks can exploit their lingering primitive physical abilities." I won't pretend to have mastered the complexities of Darwinism, but I don't recall having read anything in his the­ory of evolution about blacks and whites having physical and mental differences which make them better suited to different pursuits. 
Even if that were the case. however. I would still take issue with Beeli's claim that "evolu­tion should never be taught at an institution that upholds the Bible." Learning is a process that involves exploring different theories and learning to evalu­ate their strengths and weak­nesses. The University of Notre Dame wouldn't be an institu­pies. The NEW. rat er an promising every person the opportunity to compete for a high quality of life. holds as one of its secondary principles that only by working for the high quality of life of other human beings and the rest of the nat­ural world can we ever attain a high quality of life for our­selves. 
In other words. once we real­ize that our own quality of life depends on the quality of life of those around us. as well as on the well-being of the environ­
tion of higher learning if it "protected" us from theories that challenged us to rethink our understanding of God and our relationship with our Creator. 
The mark of an educated person is that he or she is will­ing to listen to debate and dis­cussion of opposing points of view. while a sign of ignorance is believing one's opinion is the only one worth considering. 
Even if one were to accept the Biblical Creation story as pro­viding a complete and accurate account of humankind's ori­gins. it would be ignorant to dismiss the value of Darwin's theory of evolution. Darwinist thought has influenced biology. sociology. and other disciplines. and familiarity with Darwinist thought is central to mastery of these areas. 
Most offensive is Beeli's con­tention that the administration "owes God an apology for fol­lowing an academic vogue as an alternative to simple belief in His holy word... While Beeli cites Scripture with ease to support his argument. he clear­ly overlooks other Biblical pas­sages which do not further his cause. Doesn't the instruction ment in which we live, it becomes quite clear that only by working for a high quality of life for all human and other­than-human beings can we ever hope to achieve a high quality of life for ourselves. We cannot be healthy people living within a sick system. Understanding this, it likewise becomes appar­ent that no matter how hard we work for physical possessions, no matter how much time and money we devote to charity. we cannot be fully whole people. and we cannot attain a high quality of life. as long as we continue to destroy the life around us that makes us whole. 
But until we stop blindly and at all costs defending the Dominant Western Worldview. and come to realize we all seek the same thing. channels for open dialogue will wither. And only through open dialogue can we ever hope to nurture the ideas that will lead to a better future for the earth and its inhabitants. 
Stephen Zavestoski, a Notre Dame undergraduate is an Earth dweller from the Pacific coastal bioregion. 
"Do not judge your neighbor" also appear somewhere within the pages of the Bible? It seems a little presumptuous for such a devout Christian as Beeli appears to be to suggest that the Administration owes God anything. 
I realize that as a Physics Graduate Student. Pieder Beeli is probably a very busy man. However. if he is open to the idea of learning and discussing ideas which differ from his own. I invite him to attend a Core course lecture, where stu­dents discuss fundamental questions that stretch tradi­tional ways of thinking. 
Last week after reading Ford's Universe; God. Science and the Human Person. our class entertained the idea that perhaps evolution. with all of it's intricacy and complexity. may be part of God's creative plan. and is therefore not in­compatible with the idea that God is our Creator. This week our reading assignment in­cludes passages from the Dar­win Reader. and I would be in­terested in hearing Beeli's com­ments on the text. 
CHRIS LENKO 
Knott Hall 


r 
l 

friday 
events 

The Funny Bone Comedy Club, featuring Steve Seagren, located in Scottsdale Mall, 8 & 10:15 p.m. Look for coupons in the Observer. 
Women's Tennis Eck Classic, 10 a.m.-all day, 
Courtney Courts Eck Pavilion. Men's Soccer vs. South Carolina, 8 p.m., Alumni Field. "El Mariachi," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m., $2. "Sliver," Cushing ~uditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. "Guilty as Sin," Carroll Auditorium SMC, 7 & 
9:30 p.m., $2. 

I 
u saturday 
events 

Notre Dame vs. Stanford kick-otT 2:30p.m. 
Domer Run '93, RecSports, 10 a.m. at Stepan Center Rd., 3 & 6 mile runs with a pancake breakfast incentive, $5 or $6 day of race. 
Men's Soccer vs. Penn. State, 8 p.m.• Alumni Field. r-"El Mariachi," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:30p.m., $2. -"Sliver," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. 
"Guilty as Sin," Carroll Auditorium SMC, 7 & 
9:30 p.m.• $2. 
nwsic 

Victoria's Real Secret, Club 23, 10 p.m. Chicago's Barrelhouse Chuck and The Moore Brothers Blues Band,Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 9 p.m. 
sunday 
events 

Faculty concert, Karen Buranskas, cellist and William Cerny, pianist. Music of Rozsa Cassado and Villa­Lobos. 2 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite, free admission. 
Misa en Espanol, Walsh Hall Chapel. 11:30 a.m., Padre Robert Pelton. Margaret Becker. christian rock singer, O'Laughlin Auditorium SMC, 7:30p.m., $9.50 or $11 at the door. 
movies 
University Pit West 
Age of Innocence 7, 9:45 Rising Sun 9:15 Into the West 6:45, 9 
UniversityPI'kEast 
The Program 7. 9:20 The Firm 8 Striking Distance 7:25, 9:30 True Romance 7 Undercover Blues 9:35 
I 
r t f 
j 
____j
l 
Fruits & veggies are 
_beneficial to the body 
Friday, Ocmber I, 1993 The Observer • ETC. 

By ELISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 

What is high in nutrients, low in fat, and can help to protect against heart disease? Better yet, what does it taste like? The immediate image that comes to mind is a bowl of sticks and bark. Surprisingly, the granola and tofu can be put aside and be replaced by some­thing your mother has been urging you to eat for years ­simple fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables are an important part of maintaining a healthy diet which is low in fat and high in fiber, and it can also help to prevent cancer and ward off heart attacks. The National Cancer Institute has concluded that more than one third of all cancer deaths are related to diet, while a recent study done by Harvard Medical School showed that women who ate five or more servings of carrots weekly had a 68 per­cent lower stroke risk than those who ate the vegetable just once a month. Ideally, it is good to eat at least five servings of certain types of fruits and vegetables a week. Five may sound like a lot, but in reality one serving is just a half a cup of fruit or cooked vegetables, three quarters of a cup of juice, one cup of leafy greens or one quarter cup of dried fruit. Some of the best foods to indulge in are ones which are high in vitamin C, vi­tamin A, and fiber. Vitamin C has long since been hailed as a cure all wonder vit­amin. It has been shown to be able to aid in healing wounds, absorbing iron, curing colds, and even helps fight against cancer. Vitamin C is one of a group of chemicals known as antioxidants, which researchers suspect is instru­mental in preventing disease. Some of the best sources of vi­tamin C are oranges, grape­fruits, kiwis, cantaloupe, straw­berries, broccoli, cauliflower, tomatoes , and all types of pep­pers. Beta-carotene, another an­tioxidant which is converted 
into vitamin A in the body, is also believed to aid in prevent­ing disease. It can be found in deep yellow and dark green vegetables like apricots, car­rots, chili peppers, spinach, squash and yams. Researchers have also found a link between beta-carotene and the preven­tion of cancer affecting the lungs, breasts, and bladder. There are many fruit and veg­etables which are high in fiber, and help to keep the digestive system healthy. A high fiber diet can also protect against colon cancer, as well as prevent constipation and other bowel disorders. Fiber is also good for the heart. Certain studies have shown that it helps to lower cholesterol in the blood­stream and therefore guards against heart disease. Certain foods which are high in fiber are apples, bananas, berries, figs, pears, prunes, potatoes (with the skin), broccoli, spinach, dried peas, and beans. Even though fruits and veg­etables benefit the body, many people still do not eat the amount they should. Here are some tips as to how the busy student can find time to fit fruits and vegetables into the hectic day: 1. At breakfast, drink a glass of juice or put sliced fruit over your cereal. 2. Eat a salad for lunch (hold off on the fatty dressings.) 3. If you can't eat fresh vegetables, buy them frozen instead of canned. Frozen ones have just about the same amount of nu­trition as fresh ones. 4. Add vegetables to your main dish at night, like adding broccoli to pasta sauce. 5. Steam vegeta­bles in the microwave in order to retain the nutrients. 6. Eat an apple before bedtime. Adding fruits and vegetables to one's meal is a very simple thing to do, and is also very beneficial. So next time you get hungry and go reaching for that Snickers or that piece of Huddle pizza, try an apple in­stead -your heart, your blood, your teeth, your eyes, your hair and your stomach will thank you later. 

Friday, October 1, 1993 


The Observer • ETC. 

ERE 

Dave Hungeling 

French fries 

Chicken 
(medium, 

Chocolate 
Cheeseburger 
Big Mac 
Apple pie
McChicken 

McNuggets 
salted) 

shake 
calories: 305 
calories: 500 
calories: 415 
calories: 260

calories: 270 
calories: 320 

calories: 320 
total fat: 13g total fat: 26g 
total fat: 19g 

total fat: 15g 
total fat: 1.7 g 
total fat: 15g
total fat: 17g 

cholesterol: 50mg cholesterol: 1 
cholesterol: 50mg 
cholesterol: 55mg 
cholesterol: Omg 

cholesterol: 1Omg 
cholesterol: 6mg 

sodium: 725mg sodium: 890mg 
sodium: 240mg

sodium: 830mg sodium: 580mg sodium: 150mg sodium: 240mg 
BK Broiler 
French fries 
chicken 

Chicken 
(medium, 

Chocolate 
Cheeseburger 
sandwich
Whopper 

Tenders 
salted) 
Apple pie

shake 
calories: 300 
calories: 280
calories: 570 

calories: 236 
calories: 372 

calories: 326 
calories: 320 

total fat: 14g 
total fat: 13g 
total fat: 14g

total fat: 31g total fat: lOg 
total fat: 1Og
total fat: 20g 

cholesterol: 45mg 
cholesterol: 38mg cholesterol: Omg
cholesterol: 80mg cholesterol: 50mg 
cholesterol: Omg

cholesterol: 31rng 
sodium: 660mg 
sodium: 870mg sodium: 770mg 
sodium: 541mg sodium: 238mg 
sodium: 420mg

sodium: 198mg 


page 13 


Maintaining a healthy diet 
By KENYA JOHNSON Accent Editor 
There are many challenges that college students face in to­day's world -deciding a major, passing a course, get­ting a job and of course, eating right. Even in the greasepits of the dining halls, students can find a way to maintain balanced, nutritional daily meals -of course this means foregoing the new hamburger grill sec­tion at least once a day. "There are a wide variety of foods available at the dining halls that can help students plan a sensible dietary plan," said Janice McQuere, market­ing and nutritional manager of the University, "We have the lighter fare entrees which con­tain less fat. There's also always fresh fruit and steamed vegetables available. And now there's fresh bread, plain rice and pasta." But even with these additions, students still have hard time eating properly. Despite the seemingly badly prepared foods served at the dining halls, there is still a sure-fire plan to maintain a healthy diet: follow the "Eating Plan for Healthy Americans" program created by the American Heart Association (AHA) provided by Notre Dame Student Health Services. This plan outlines a wholesome eating style for a healthy, active life, while reducing the amount of cholesterol, accord­ing to AHA. Some suggested points are as followed: 
•Meet 
your daily needs for pro­tein, vitamins, minerals and other nutrients. 

•Achieve 
and maintain your best weight. 

•Reduce 
your total fat intake to about 30 percent of your calo­rie intake. 

•Avoid 
eating too many foods containing saturated fat and cholesterol. 

•Substitute 
polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fat for saturated fat wherever possible but be careful not to eat too much of any kind of fat. 

•Make 
these changes gradually over a period of several months so they become a natural part of your permanent eating pat­tern. The AHA plan also offers a few tips on how to control the amount and kind of fat: 

•Limit 
your intake of meat, seafood and poultry to no more than 6 ounces per day. 

•Use 
chicken or turkey (with­out skin) or fish in most of your main meals. 

•Choose 
lean cuts of meat, trim all the fat you can see, and throw away the fat that cooks out of the meat. 

•Substitute 
meatless or "low­meat" main dishes for regular entrees. 

•Use 
no more than a total of 5­8 teaspoons of fats and oils per day for cooking, baking and salads. Another suggestion of AHA is to lower the cholesterol intake. This can be done by using no more that three egg yolks a week, including those used in cooking, and to cut back on shrimp and lobster. Only you can take charge of your eating style. Make these changes in your eating habits slowly and steadily. 


' 

page 14 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, October 1, 1993 
Judaism possesses charm right down to its honey cake 
When I was ordained a priest in 
"so often, so I could feel haunt­to me as a prayer-partner. He 1954, the Jewish family living ed from hearing Al Jolson sing is the Rabbi on Whose word I next door to my mother in the the Kol Nidre. depend. Does He mind my real­old neighborhood up in Maine Father Robert Griffin A few years ago, I went to a izing that Christianity is not gave me a honey-flavored cake synagogue for the Friday night alone as a religion inspired by shaped like the tablets of the Bellers lo a Bonefy 9od service, so that I could wear a God? Law on which the Ten yarmulke.. and be uplifted by Judaism has a dimension to it Commandments in Hebrew had the service, with which I am which Christianity lacks. Jews been iced in frosting. unfamiliar. To be honest, I left have discovered how humor is If Catholics loved honey as disappointed, and I understood related to the tears of things,
People, argue that Israel's lost honors God. The Jew who does 
much as Jews do, they'd make why. "lacrimae rerum." As an aid to
tribes migrated to the not keep the Sabbath has 
it a sacrament. In Israel, the A priest I know was in a con­grace under pressure, humor
Hibernian shore, where they grown luke-warm in his love of 
Jews have made the desert vent, celebrating a liturgy at has helped Jews survive.
preached Deuteronomy to the God. The Sabbath was given to 
bloom, covering it with flowers which incense was used. Humor cannot be shallow, Jews 
Druids. the Jews when they were slaves 
and clover on which bees can Halfway through, a young sister have discovered, since it is part
I can picture myself greeting in Egypt, so they could have a 
feast. They have cleared rocks in her novice year came on the of God's mystery. 
newly-met Jews with the words day of rest. God might turn His
and thorn bushes off barren altar to inform him, "Reverend Christians wonder where the
used by the 11th son of the bib­back on the Jew who keeps hisfields, irrigating them and lical Jacob when he greeted his back to the Sabbath, which he Mother wants more smoke." Gospels show that Jesus ever 
planting grass on which the Like Reverend Mother, I was laughed. Chesterton conjec­
siblings who had sold him into is obliged to love joyously as hislivestock can feed. slavery: "I am Joseph your heaven-sent bride. disappointed because I wanted tured that He went into the ev­
Returning from exile to their to hear more Kol Nidre, or erlasting hills to be alone when
brother. Doth my fath9r yet I started going to bar mitzvahs
ancient homeland which they music that would have touched He laughed, just as He went
live?" I could wear an amazing so that I could feast on the
alone have loved with singular me in the way that music does. there to be alone when He
techni-colored dream coat to honey cake with the
intensity, they have turned But the Kol Nidre is a hymn of prayed. His laughter would
remind them of the story of Commandments on top, At 6 7, 
worthless real estate -which Joseph in Egypt. I'm still hooked on that cake of forgiveness which belongs to have scandalized the disciples, lay unproductive from the I was charmed with the cake angels; but at my age, how the liturgy of Yom Kippur.. the says Chesterton, and I do be­decade when the Temple was Day of Atonement. I had stum­lieve those lads might have
decorated with the Decalogue many lads being "bar mitz­destroyed in A.D. 70 and which I might have been given vah'd" do you think I know? bled that night into a young been stymied by a joke. 
Masada was besieged, until woman's confirmation, a bat The Jews, at home with God's
as a lad making his bar mitz­I'm not disposed to think that
1948-into the land of milk and mitzvah. A Jew in attendance at native language, have had an
vah. Judaism is a piece of cake. If
honey which the Patriarches a Catholic wedding, hoping to advantage This could explain
The Commandments were col­you want to know the truth, ev­
were promised. hear Bach's St. Matthew's why the Jewish religion is so
ored-coded: white icing was ery September, when I hear the
In offering me honey cake as a Passion, would be disappointed joyful. At weddings which have
used for the mitzvahs prescrib­High Holy Days have started
newly-ordained priest, those in the same way I was disap­become catered affairs at
ing the duties one has toward with the Jewish New Year, I 
Jews were offering to make me pointed at not seeing the Jews Leonard's in Great Neck, the
his neighbors. Gold colored ic­want to rush to the nearest syn­
an heir of their Dream. beautiful in their contrition on groom must take time out to in­
ing was used for the mitzvahs agogue, and join the celebra­
Accepting their offer and eating the Day of Atonement. terrupt' the the general eupho­
prescribing one's duties to God. tion. Putting on the yarmulke
the honey cake, I have blessedly If a Baptist were to ask me if ria by crushing the crystal gob­
The mitzvah which began, "I and perhaps a prayer shawl­
dreamed as a brother to the am the Lord thy God," and the though not the phylacteries, one religion is as good as an­let under his foot, to remind his Jews through all my priestly other, meaning his religion as a guests of the ways Jews have
mitzvah which ordained, since I don't know what they
days. I am very conscious of Baptist and mine as a Catholic, suffered.
"Remember the Sabbath Day, mean, even when they're
being spiritually a Semite, as I wouldn't hesitate to say no Their Sabbath is so joyful, the
to keep it holy," were covered explained to me. 
the popes have said Catholics But if a Jew were to ask me the rabbis in the shtetls used to
with translucent candies spun I want to join the congregation
should be. Whimsically, I have same question about his reli­stand four inches taller after
from honey, to highlight the in reciting the Shema, which
wondered whether, in the part gion as a Jew, and mine as a sunset on Friday, when the
holy text, and leave you won­begins, "Hear, 0 Israel, the 
of me that is Irish, I could also Catholic, I'd be tempted to say, Sabbath began. Catholics have
dering if each golden stroke Lord is our God; the Lord is
be a Hebrew according to the "Of course." statuses of Mary that weep and
forming a word had been inlaid one,"as though we were
flesh. Would this not be a betrayal of bleed in their churches.
with jewels. Hasidim in Jerusalem, praying
The stage Irish in their cups, Jesus as Lord? If I thought it Judaism might not be a bad re­
Even as a goy I could figure at the Wailing Wall. I may be
insisting that they are de­were, I'd be very sad. Jesus is ligion to have, if you're having 
out the cake was saying that romancing the Jew in me, be­
scended from the Chosen always and everywhere present only one.
the Jew who loves the Sabbath cause I saw "The Jazz Singer 
The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 
Michael P. Esposito, Jr. 
Executive Vice President of 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
, 
and Alumnus of 
The University of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on October 6, 1993 at the University Club, Main Lounge from 6-8 pm_ and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities at Chase. 

THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK 

Friday, October 1, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at th 
..._
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar Colle 
Center. Deadline for next~ay classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. T charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOOKING FOR MOTHER'S HELPER WHO ENJOYS CHIL­ ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  ALUM needs to trade (2)BC GA's for (2) USC or (2)PITT-call Jim  HELP! I need Pitt GA's-Steve 1217  Let us take the worry out of your  
DREN. FLEX HAS (an afternoon &  JANE AT 1-B00-264-3278.  collect 313-4 78-6028  TRADE 2 BOSTON GA TIX FOR  decision. Call to learn about us, 1  
Typing  a couple of AM's). CALL 232-6755.  PREMIER OF RUDY TIX. CALL  love we have to share, and the li  
287-4082  Need 2-4 Pitt GA's  28B-3028 AFTER 6 PM.  we would like to provide for your  
HELP I  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ Katie 273-6324 $  baby. Strictly legal. Confidential.  
Undergraduate meeting Sunday  I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE!  ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call:  Call Sylvia and Ben. 1 (800) 579  
7pm glndlsmc. Kelly 2B9-4063.  If you need a roommate,  A. Raczkowski  I DESPERATELY need 2 Pitt GA's  7207  
call Jay-x1714  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  I NEED tickets for PITT and FSU - Please call Josh at x3578. Will pay  
GENERAL MEETING Sunday 330  with jobs -will pay big $$$!  student or GA's. Please call  top dollar.  
p.m. (Erik 634-31 07/Kelly 289­ Christine at 273-4B03.  WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVI  
4063) glndlsmc po 194 ND IN  Help! We have sore butts, so we  FSU stu. tix. for sale, only  PANCAKES AND IS WILLING T  
46556.  need a couch or sofa. Do you have  FSU TIX NEEDED!!!!!!!!  SERIOUS ($$$) INQUIRIES  RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET  
an old one? $60 or less?  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  I have 2 BC GAs and 1 BC stud. I  please. Rob-4052  THEM. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ 
Call us! x3043 or x3041  PLEASEII  need 2 FSU tix (GAs or studs). Call  DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6  
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS  Theresa before 1 Opm at x4312.  FOR MORE INFO.  
RUNNING AND EATING PAN­ NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S.  
CAKES. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  Need 2 Fla. St. GA's  MUST HAVEl! CALL 272-7233.  
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  BRUNO'S NEEDS Drivers!!!!  Best offer-call T J 232-5030  PLEASE HELP!!! I NEED 1 GA OR  ATTENTION SOPHOMORESII!I  
FOR MORE INFO.  PT for Campus Deliveries.  STU. TICKET FOR PITI. CALL  FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES.  
Call John 288-3220  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  KELLY @ 4-4270  277-1659.  Class Mass is Oct. 3, 2:00 p.m. <  
Professional Typing  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  MAIT @ 232-3870  the Grotto. (If rain: Keenan­ 
Dissertations, Term Papers  Stanford Chapel)  
Reasonable Rates  I need 4 tix for Pitts  
277-7406  NO vs USC -Need tickets for  call 4-2994, ask for  Father Miscamble will preside.  
Love kids? Would you like to help  10/23 game.Chris Marks  Andrea or leave a  
Chicago-based corporation recently  protect the environment?  800-523-3139.  message 1!!1  NEED I PITT GA X3533  
Notre Dame licensed seeks local  Join a one-a-month "Kids for Saving  Don't miss this opportunity to eel  
agent to sell T-shirts, sportswear,  Earth"Ciub sponsored by a local  I NEED PITI TICKETS, GA PREF­ Heading home?  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT  brate Mass with friends!  
etc. OFF CAMPUS only; sopho­ elementary school. Male counselors  ER ED call Tim at x1225  Watching FSU-Miami?  GAME. CALL JEFF @273-4B67  
more or junior preferred. Generous  for 4-5th grade Earth Crusaders:  
commission. Call Tracy @ (BOO)  ecology, bicycling, hiking and  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  Sell me your PITT stud  Sophomores!!!  
551-Q035.  adventure course program. Call Bill  GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  call Scott 35B6  Looking for 3 Pitt. student or G.As.  
evenings 272-4B50  GA:s 2773097  Call 277.4597 after 6pm or leave a  
message.  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  NEEDED: Artist for commercial pro­ #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  AHOY MATIES!I NEED 2 PITT  FREE THE NAKED 4 !I  
CALL 259-B684  ject. Newspaper ads, b/w drawings.  AND 1 USC (STU OR GA) FOR  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC &  
ILOST & FOUND I  Great resume experience! The Works Bar & Grill 501 N Niles Ave 237-9757  Help! I need four tickets to the Boston College game ....  OLD SHIPMATES COMING TO TOWN. BOB X4529  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  $800 WEEKLY POSSIBLE! Working at home! 37 different  
If you would like to make a hot  I NEED ONE BC TIX & MANY  opportunities. Rush $1 and self­ 
FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD HEART  WANTED: 50 people this Sat. am  babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at  PITT TIX-STUDENT OR GA  PITT,USC,FSU,BC STUD TIX FOR  addressed stamped envelope to  
RING IN DBRT BATHROOM CALL  to stand in line. Pays $10/hr up to 5  634-2703 ...  271-7047  SALE X.2795 LVE MESS. AND  L. Miko  
KRISTEN AT: 4-27BO  hrs. Call634-1477 and leave name  BEST OFFER  1649 Turtle Creek Ct.  
& number.  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#  MBA STUDENT SEEKS 2 TICK­ South Bend, IN 46637  
ETS FOR FAMILY TO USC GAME.  
LOST: Gold Camel Pendant some­ NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA  PLEASE CALL RICH X-4-4499  NEED PIITnX  
where on North Quad. VERY SEN­ STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ STU OR GA  ND/SMC RTL  
TIMENTAL-REWARD!  RELIABLE AND HARD WORKING  BB26 AFTER 5 PM  Need FSU Stu. & Ga's Eric x1 087  AILEEN X4290  Mon 10/4  
Call Amy @ x1334 Please help!  INDIVIDUALS NEEDED TO MAKE  7:30-8:30  
EXTRA CASH SELLING UNIVER­ I NEED 3 PIIT GA'S BADLY  I NEED GA'S FOR PITT,USC & BC  Have 2 GA's for FSU and BC  107 LaFortune  
LOST: VARSITY JACKET AT 200  SITY RELATED  MIKEx2292  NICK X1777  games. Leave best offer at 4-3419.  
HAGGAR ON 9/17. REWARD.  T-SHIRTS. APPLY AT:  
CALL 4-2915.  LINDA'S FLOWER MARKET  HELP!! NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­ LIFE CHAIN  .....  
1635 EDISON ROAD  WILL SELL 1 PITT GA  NEED UP TO 6 USC GEN. ADM.  MARRIED STD BKS 4SALE  Sunday 2: 15 pm  
Found: Nancy Kim I found your  272-0902.  CALL HELEN x4026  TIX. PLEASE CALL KATHY COL­ 273-2331  Rockne  
football tickets in the Fischer  LECT (301) 737-5520.  
parking lot. Please call me @  Attention -ACDC Students. Part  We Need PITT TIX  
4-4303 and if you're nice I'll return  time baby sitter needed for 5 month  2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at  HELP!  Need 4 Pitt Tix  SABOR LATINO  
them.  old and 4 yr old. $5.50 per hr.  1612 or Kristen at 2B12  I NEED PITT  Preferablly married  
Must have own transportation. Call  AND BC GA's. ot .,  Call 273-6033  at the 'Taste of Nations'  
LOST!!I NO wallet and key holding  Lea 272-5029.  CALL AMY X4952  Saturday Oct. 2 8:30 pm  
my entire life! II Last seen in NSH Room 127. Could have lost in  PITT AND USC GA s WANTED FOR RICH  WANTED FOUR TICKETS TO ND  ........................................  Stepan Ctr  
DeBartolo also. Contains 10,  WANTED: A ride to New Jersy for  ALUMNI $$$232-134B  FSU. CALL COLLECT 619  My little brother loves NO football  Come enjoy and dance to  
cash card, VISA, cash and other  fall break. Will help with gas and  942 5030.  and has never seen a game and  the only Latin band on Campus  
miscellaneous items. PLEASE  driving. Call Beth at X4994.  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X221 0  will be here for FSU ... please call  Cumbia, Salsa, Merengue ....... .  
RETURN IF FOUND! REWARD! CALL DEB AT #3707.  DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST  STUDS 4 SALE -2 FL. ST., 3 B.U. BEST OFFER 284-5195.  Mike if you have tix. 271-1706.....................................­ SABOR LATINO 1!!11!!  
Lost: Copy Card. Left on the sec­ FOR RENT  WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 PITI GA'S DONALD x1724.  I need st. tix bks please call Pat  I need PITT GA's Please HELPI  
ond floor at noon on Sept. 30. Says  32B1  4-1103 Greg  
"Fraser". Please return to library  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME  II!IIII!I!!I!!!!Ill!I!I I II! !II!!IllII!IIIII I Ill!! I!!  
Lost and Found.  NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  GAME. MIKE @ 1724  I need 2 pairs of PITT GA's  NEED 2 USC GA's  II!!!  
271-09B9 24 HOUR ANSWERING  call Tim 237-1012$$$$$  Will trade 2 BC stud's or  
LOST: J-Crew Barn Jacket (Olive  MACHINE.  Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  1 BC & 1 FSU stud.  LYONS VOLLEYBALL TOURN.  
green) btw. 9-22 & 9-27. Please  Chi-Chi 1200  SUNDAY OCTOBER 3RD  
contact Mike @x1166  Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194.  NEED 4-B USC GA'S  
Private.  TEAMS OF FOUR:  
WANTED  257-9101  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  CALL JOE@ X1613  Two PITT Student tix for sale. Best offer. x3655 or x47681eave  SIGN UP AT LUNCH OR DINN (IN BOTH DINING HALLS)  
LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  NEED 2 FEMALE STUD. TIX FOR  name and offer.  THURSDAY AND FRIDAY.  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ PITT. JAY X1534  WIN GREAT PRIZES!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!I  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ 1429  We will purchase at handsome  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  PUS $225. M0.272-6306  price four seats together for the  LYONS VOLLEYBALL TOURN.  
TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS  NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  I NEED PITT GA TIX  Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO)  
& PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201­ 457-04B6.  M.T. : • ... and I know it's over stil  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-B00­ OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ 217-0030 (W) 201-992-8700  CALL MIKE AT 277-B135  cling, I don't know where else I c  
67B-6386!  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235.  go ... and it never really began b  
EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  Need 1 USC G.A.!  I NEED *PITT* STDNT TIX  in my heart it was so real. • Is thi  
WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE  BUS. 232-8444.  Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s  CALL 273-6463  how we make up for lost time?  
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO  Call Karen at 4-4987.  Need Pitt GAs  
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­ Please call Dave 273-0821  Consider a life of patient love fro  
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED  Female r-mate needed IMMEDI­ Need FSU stud tix  I NEED FSU GA's  Mom, financial security from Dac  
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN  ATELY at Turtle Creek! Gina 4­ call Aaron @ 272-341B  TOM @ 271-290B  laughter and music in a country  
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE  2372  home for your baby. Please call  
10AM-6PM MON-FRI  Need Pitt GA's  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-517  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ FOR SALE  Call Andy @ 3654  N.D. Alumnus has FSU GAs and is looking to trade for USC GAs.  HELP Mother Theresa needs 2  anytime.  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  Please help my Uncle live a lifelong  Please call (717) 697-2219 and ask  USC tix. Will trade 2 BC tix.  Top 10 Reasons Why the Dillon  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  dream: I need 2 BC GA's and a  for Tom or leave message.  x4340  Scavenger Hunt was a Success:  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  female student ticket. Call Sean at  1 0-'Cause Alumni Sucks  
Career employment available. No  4-3479  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889  9-lt upheld Dillon's already spoUt  
experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-046B  B AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE Orange County to Chicago 10/21  (MARK)  FOR SALE: USC and BC student tickets. Call Beth at X4994  image B-What a better way to meet Sp<  _,  
ext.C5584  Chicago to Orange County 10/24  NEED 2 BYU TIX!  7-Because a Lyons chick finally •  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fish­ Only $333/each round trip Michelle Coleman B00-854-4643  PLS CALL (801)484-710B  $WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ NEED 2 PITT GA'S CALL (614) 459-0074  PERSONAL  some 6-'Cause Fr. Judas lsCAREYot  
eries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or  x1515 all hours  COLLECT AFTER 4 PM OR CALL  proved his loy  
more per month on fishing vessels  Will give big bucks and parents  SHEILA AT x4072  alty to Dillon  
or in canneries. Many companies  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  weekend GA's for FSU GA's. Call  SENIOR RAP-UP GROUP  5-11 improved gender relations e<  
provide transportation and room &  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  Mike at X16201  SIGN-UPS AT THE  pus wide  
board. No experience necessary.  Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6  $Need Pitt GAs$  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­ 4-Smokin' Crack with the Fat Gir  
Male or Female. For more informa­ days includes12 meals $279!  I NEED two Pitt GA's  Angie 273-5805  CERNS  3-Who wanted SYRs, Formals. E  
tion call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  Call Matt at x1686  DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1  Matching Funds anyway?  
Cancun from Chicago $439,  2-lt made the word, "Slut" politicl  
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  Need 2 GAs for any home game  NEED PITT GA'S & 1 ST TIX LIKE  Honey, GOD shrunk my hypothala­ correct  
Individuals and Student  West $239, Daytona Room w/  Call Tim at 273-1757  YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE  mus! glndlsmc po 194 NO IN  1-THE JERKERI  
Organizeations wanted to promote  Kitchen $149! 1-BD0-67B-6386  JIM 232-3807  46556  
the Hottest Spring Break  -funding by the Dillon Commit!  
Destinations, call the nation's  DEPENDABLE 19B6 PLYMOUTH  NEED 2 PITT GA OR STUD TIX.  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ on appropriate behavior- 
leader. Inter-Campus Programs  DUSTER CALL HOLLY 271-8940  JOHN X3403  FOR SALE: REMAINING  agement and security to the pre­ Long Live Dillon!!  
1-B00-327 ·6013  STUDITIX BOOKLET. BEST  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES  TICKETS  Wanted: One Gen Ad tix for Pitt  OFFER CALL 234-6037  time mom and loving dad; married 12 years; promises that your child  To all CLEVELAND ST. IGNATII WILDCATS: Please contact Brie  
TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ and SIX for BC!!!I! Call Colleen  I NEED stud tix to USC & PITT  will have every opportunity. Please  Mc0onough'92 (3363) to sign th•  
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  x27B5 soon! Will pay $$$$$$$$  por favor bitte se vous please  call Phil and Maureen at (B00)545­ card for Ms. Gaski  
FOR MORE INFO.  TIXS 272-6306  call Josh 234-2853  8195.  

page 16 The Observer • WOMEN'S INTERHALL Friday, October 1, 1993 
Badin puts undefeated record on the line against Lyons 
By SCOTI CLEMENTE 
Sports Writer 

The one o'clock game this Sunday will highlight the day's scedule as undefeated and number one ranked Badin faces Lyons Hall. Badin is com­ing off an 18-0 victory over Walsh this past Wednesday and is a very confident team. 
Lyons is coming off its first victory. at 26-6 win at the expense of Pangborn and is clearly the game's underdog. Badin. however is not taking their opponent lightly. 
"Every game we take serious­ly. How a team performed against others may not show how they will perform against us," stated team captain Shari Shepard. "Our offenses and defenses could match up differ­ently." 
The Lyons team is optomistic about the matchup despite the odds being stacked against them. Wendy Holthaus. the team's captain feels that the Lyons team will not be out­matched. 
"We've improved a lot since our first game. We were able to step up our defense and that has helped." she said 
In their last game. Lyons was able to hold Pangborn to just one touchdown. securing their first victory of the season. Shepard does not think that her team will be outmatched. 
..As long as we're aggresive I think we'll be alright." she said. 
Walsh vs. Breen Phillips 

Walsh will be looking to get its first win against 5th ranked Breen Phillips. this Sunday. 
Both teams are coming off tough losses. Walsh lost18-0 to the league's number one ranked team. Badin. while B.P. was defeated 20-18. by Howard. Missed extra points cost the Blitz the victory. 
Howard vs. Pangborn 

In the last game scheduled for Sunday winless Pangborn takes on fourth ranked Howard. Despite their record the Pangborn team is optomistic about their chances of getting their first win. 
The foxes are entering the game with a new game plan. courtesy of their coach Larry Holtz. Captain Kaaren Kolodziej thinks her team has a good shot at victory. "Things are starting to come together and we are very optomistic," she said. 
Thinking About a Career in the Law? 
Learn about education and career opportuni­ties in this iriformation-packed session! Sat., Oct. 16, 9 a.m.-noon 
• 
Hear from attorneys about careers 

• 
Learn what's involved in law school 



• Receive a comprehensive information packet 
REGISTRATION ONLY $19 Call for Information or Registration 237-4261
IUSB Indiana University South Bend Continuing Education 
"ftiGHLY ENTERTAINING AND GREAT FUN:' 
'~N 
AMAZING MOVIE... 
a tale of mistaken identity where we're never sure what's going to happen: 
-Jeff Craig. SIXTY SECO"'D PREVIEW 
·one of the most 
ASTONISHING 
directing debuts in a decade: a delightful. e~hilarating film which announces the arrival of a major new talent. See it!" 

-Jim Svejda, KNX RADIO. LOS ANGELES 
.· .:~:·:-:-·:: 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:30 
P.W. drops Lewis to remain undefeated 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
Sports Writer 

P.W. and Lewis. two of four undefeated teams in women's interhall. played an intense game Thursday night that lived up to its potential. With the 6-0 victory. P.W. maintains its spot at the top of the Blue Division. and defends their #2 ranking. Lewis drops to 2-1. 
Both teams played tough defense. but P.W. scored in the first half and held on from there to secure the win. P.W. receiver Jenny Tate caught the game-winning touchdown pass from quarterback Bethany Riddle. After the early score. Lewis kept the game close. pressuring Riddle. and sacking her several times. Lewis fared much better than other teams who have faced Riddle and 
P.W. this season. 

threatened to score. but sopho­more Heather Hughes had a key sack to stop the drive. Senior Kristen Lefere also con­tributed to the defensive suc­cess when she deflected a pass on a big play. 
Farley 12. Seigfried 0 
Heading into Thursday night's game. the women of Farley Hall set a goal for them­selves to get on the scoreboard for the first time this season. They succeeded in their goal. and also kept Seigfried off the scoreboard. as they posted their first win. 12-0. Seigfried falls to 1-2 for the season. 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Graduate Page Editor 
Notre Dame graduate student interested in editing a weeki page focusing on graduate issues. 
College Page Editor 
A Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student interested in editing a 
' 

page examining other campuses. 
Please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by Friday, October 1. Call631-4542 ifyou have questions about either position. 
Open the door to yourfuture with 
aUMMBA. 
Fulfill your dreams w1th an MBA from UM. We offer flexible and innova· tive programs such as our one-year MBA for students with an under­graduate business degree and our two-year program for bachelors students without abusiness degree. Both of these programs offer you the opportunity to pursue two complementary specializations such as: 
• 
Finance and International Business 

• 
Marketing and Computer Information Systems 

• 
Health Administration and Human Resource Management 

• 
Marketing and Strategic Management 

• 
Accounting and Computer Information Systems 


With our dual degree Masters in International Business (MIBS), you will earn an MBA and a Master of Science 1n International Bus1ness with a guaranteed 1nternship 1n the country of your selected 3nguage specialty. 
As you approach graduation and complete your ptogram. ~Jr place­ment office is solely dedicated to finding employment oppor .~1t1es for our graduate business students 
If you are tntrigued by these challeng1ng and rewarding opl r:ur~n~es. call us at 1-800-531-7137, and we will show you how to get --Jrterj .:.,r the rest of your life. 

GRADUATE BUSINESS PROGRAMS, P 0 BOX 2.a505, CORAl GABLES, FL 3312~·.,;,2~ 
The defensive battle contin­ued into the second half. but Weigert managed to score another touchdown to increase Farley's lead to twelve. Seigfried challenged Farley with a scoring threat late in the game. but the determined defense held them on the goal line. 
P.E. 19. Knott 0 
Pasquerilla East rebounded from their loss to P. W .. and came out fighting as they faced Knott Hall last night. They combined a strong rushing attack with a solid defensive effort to beat Knott 19-0. 
f 
Start your day with a Cappuccino or Lotte served the MAR IGOLD way with 0 
fresh Croissants, 0 French ~ 
Expanded
Bread ..., 
Hours,
I and 
I M-F ' Jam 
8am-7pm 
I 
or 
Sat. Biscotti "' 8am-6pm 
1 
Now 
Available: Cappuccino Espresso tatte 
\ 



MARl~ OLD~ 
MARKET • 
Grape & Cleveland Rd. 272-1922 


lluin·rsity of Notn· Daml' lntt·r·national Study Pr·ognuns 
AUSTRIA, AUSTRALIA, CHILE, FRANCE, .JAPAN, JERUSALEM, MEXICO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH DR. CLAUDIA KSELMAN ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
M()NDAY, ()CTOBER 4, 1993 6:30PM 249 MAilELEVA HALL 
Appl iralion Dt·ad I i lll'o;: Ot:tolwr 15, l 1)1JJ: Spdng 199-t St•nn•'ill'l' in .kru... akm. ~1l'\:iro ('it\. Santiago 
-first pitched on the site in 1911. In his second appear­ance. the left·hander. known as •• Re,~ Hoff. struck out Ty <;obb of 
r; the Detroit Tigers. .. There was a great batter up there:· Hoff said, ..but I didn't know who he was." 


The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Stokes' three TO catches pace UCLA win 
By BERNIE WILSON Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

UCLA's J.J. Stokes pulled up in the corner of the end zone after catching a 50-yard pass and bowed to nobody in partic­ular. He was simply in his ele­ment. 
Stokes, held in check in the previous three games, caught five passes for 164 yards and three touchdowns and UCLA held Marshall Faulk io only 53 yards in a 52-13 victory over 
San  Diego  State  Thursday Bruins were 0-2 before beating "I don't care  
night.  Stanford 28-25 on Saturday. Heisman. What you saw hap­is 
Stokes  turned  down  the "It was embarrassing and pen with our team  

hometown Aztecs out of high school because they wanted to make him a tight end. 
''I'm not a tight end." Stokes said. "I want to catch the ball. I want to celebrate. I want to do all that. I know how to block, but I don't want to be on the line." 
Stokes had only 188 yards and two touchdowns on 16 catches in games against California. Nebraska and Stanford. He broke out against the Aztecs by catching TD pass· es of 36. 16 and 50 yards from 
AUDITIONS for ND Opera Workshop THE MARRIAGE OF FIGARO 
by W.A. Mozart Performances on Apr. 22 & 23 Casting all Rolls 

Auditions-Wed. Oct 13,7:30 p.m. Crowley Hall Room 115 Accompanist provided 
I I 

STUDENT EXCHANGES
I 
at

I I 
Clark Atlanta University
I 
in Atlanta, Georgia 
I I Xavier UniversityI in New Orleans, Louisiana I I St. Mary•s University 
in San Antonia, Texas
I I 
St. Edward's University
I 
in Austin, Texas

I I I 
Informational Meeting
I 
Tuesday, October s, I993
I 
s:oo • 9:00 p.m.
I 
102 DeBartolo Hall
I I I 
ALL N.D. JUNIORS WELCOME
I 
Wayne Cook. 
"He's the type of player who can bust open the game with big plays," Cook said. "It's exciting to have him as a receiver and it's exciting to watch him after you throw the ball to him." 
The Bruins (2·2) improved to 16-0·1 against San Diego State (3·2). Thursday's game was the last of a 1 0-year contract. dur­ing which UCLA outscored the Aztecs 400-153. 
"It seems like we've never had a game like this." said coach Terry Donahue. whose 
humiliating," San Diego State coach AI Luginbill said. "For whatever reason. we don't think we can beat those people. So we do what it takes to not be competitive. It's a shame." 
San Diego State. of the Western Athletic Conference. is 0·16-1 against Pac-10 teams since beating Stanford in 1985. 
Faulk, the two-time national rushing leader and 1992 Heisman runnerup, carried 19 times and was held to his sec· ond·lowest output in three sea­sons. excluding two games cut short by injury. He scored on a 3-yard run 3:44 into the third quarter, and didn't carry the 
C~0?9T)CkS
CHINESE FAS'T FOOD 
We Deliver to your dorm! Mon ... Thurs 11 a.m. ~ 9 p.m. Fri & Sat 11 a.m. ~ 10 p.m. 
$6 minimum $1 service charge for orders under $15 
Alec Baldwin l!!l 
Daily 4:45 7:30 10:00 

ball in the fourth. 
San Diego State had three 
turnovers early and trailed 24­
0 at haHtime. 
"When things were going bad 
at the beginning, we just tried 
to put it in the back of our 
heads," Faulk said. "But things 
just kept going bad. I don't 
know what'!. the reason. but 
they did." 
Faulk has been been held nnder t 00 yards in two straight games for the first time in his career. and his Heisman chances take a hit each game. 
about the 
more 

important to me than winning 
the trophy." Faulk said. 
"I don't feel right now that they're able to get him the rnn­ning lanes and the daylight that he's had the couple years past." Donahue said. "That's not a criticism of anybody. If he had one of their better offensive lines from the past. then I think he'd be ripping it up again ... 
Stokes caught four passes for 114 yards in the first half. including one for a 36-yard touchdown seven plays into the game. He juked cornerback Leonard Jones after making the catch, then twice evaded free safety Darrell Lewis. 
East Location: 525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 232.. 1177 
the ~ 

GOODSON 
Dally 5:00 7:15 8:30 


Sat. &sun. 1:30 4:45 7:30 10:00 Sat &sun. 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 
SLEEPLESS 

~~[[ WilLY Mag~~EMarvelous.
IN SEATTLE TOM HANKS 
An adventure ~ECRET MEGRYAN lllil 
you'll never forget. ~ (JARDEN ~ 
1:45 4:15 8:45 9:00 2:00 4:30 6:452:30 5:00 7:15 9:30 
~· 

fPOtRUM\\~ 
JAMAICAN 

BOBSLEDDERS? m 
2:30 5:00 7:15 9:45 

WARJQCK: 
THE ARMAGEDDON 
JULIAN SANDS ® 
9:15 
THE

PROGRAM 
. 2:15 4:45 7:30 10:00 

RUCE LIS 
STRIKING 
DISTANCE~ 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 
-
--" 
~-~.---~-------------------------~--------­
• 

\ 
...... 
i : 
! l
I l 
I : 
! : 
I 
II 
I J 
! J 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
National League West race still up for grabs Late Braves' rally falls short Giants pull into tie for lead 
By TOM SALADINO By KEN PETERS ~~~ci~ate~d~P~re~~----------------------~-~-oc_i_at_ed_P_re_~______________~==~==~ 
ATLANTA  LOS ANGELES  
The Atlanta Braves blew another chance to  Billy Swift pitched the San Francisco Giants  
move closer to their third straight NL West title.  back into a tie for first place in the NL West.  
losing to the Houston Astros 10-8 Thursday night  beating the Los Angeles Dodgers 3-1 Thursday  
when their ninth-inning rally fell short.  night.  
The loss cut Atlanta's lead to one-half game  The victory. coupled with Atlanta's 10-8loss to  
over San Francisco. The Giants played later at Los  Houston. left the Giants and Braves tied with 101  
Angeles in the opener of a season-ending, four- victories. San Francisco finishes with three  
game series.  games at Dodger Stadiwn and Atlanta ends with  
Atlanta scored three runs in the ninth off Doug  three games at home against Colorado.  
Jones. But with runners on first and third and two  Swift (21-8). tied for the league lead in wins.  

three rWIS in the fifth. 


INDOOR FLEA MARKET Thur.-Fri.-Sat. 9-6:00 p.m. Produce Dept. Open Daily Located 215 S. Main, Downtown South Bend, IN 
(Across from the Federal Building, next door to Hardee,s & less than 4 miles from Notre Dame) 
-Parking Available ­
289-7070 289-7074 
Rates for 3 Days: Special Rates: 
Thur. 
for I"' Fri. 100 
s.t. vendors 

~N Esp 
~ 11:30 a.m. r­


Celeb~nte 

PADRE ROBERT PELTON, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 



outs. Otis Nixon fouled out to third. gave up one rrm on two hits in seven innings. He r----------------------­Atlanta finishes its season with three games at walked four and struck out four as the resurgent home against Colorado. Giants won for the eighth time in nine games. The Braves lost two of three games to Houston. Rod Beck pitched 1 1-3 innings for his 46th They had won 14 straight series since dropping save. 
The Observer 
two of three to Montreal on Aug. 6-8. Tom Candiotti (8-10) gave up three runs. two Craig Biggio and Ed Taubensee each drove in rmearned, on six hits in eight innings. He walked three rWIS for Houston. The loss made Atlanta 4-two and struck out six. and was victimized by a 
Circulation Drivers Needed 
4 since taking a 3 1/2-game lead over the Giants pair of errors. on Sept. 21. Shortstop Jose Offerman misplayed a routine 
For Friday Mternoons 
The Braves trailed 10-5 going to the ninth. but grounder with two outs in the fourth. helping the Terry Pendleton hit an RBI single with one out Giants take a 2-0 lead. 
1:30-3:30
and Damon Berryhill followed with an RBI single. Barry Bonds walked with one out and went to Mark Lemke grounded into a forceout that scored second on Willie McGee's groundout. Royce one run and pinch-hitter Ryan Klesko singled. Clayton then grounded straight to Offerman. who 
The Astros took the lead for good at 7-4 with bobbled the ball. 
This is a paid position. 
Contact Joe Riley at 634-1780 
C: 1993 T~e Olove Gorden Restouronls. 

ERE'S OURSE 

HAT.._OM.BINES.~ .... TALIAN ND _CONOMICS. 

...~~, 
......,.................... 
· ..... 

Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your 10 and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with your choice of marinara, tomato or meat sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and 
~• warm garlic breadsticks. It's all just $5.95. And you don't have 01..• 
R

to be a math major to figure out that that's a great deal. 
WHERE ALLTHE REsrr OF lT1\LY Is Y<JURS.~ 
•Opposite University Pork Moll, 277-6503. 
'--------------------------------------------------·---------__J 
·----~ u~·-••-••• -·----------•••··--·-­
Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page 19 
The Economics of the Citibank 
Classic Visa card. How Student Discounts and Price Protection contribute to upward growth. A-variety of factors have been. suggested as contributing to the economic growth of students, including (1) more lottery winners between the ages of 18 and 22, .(2) a 37°/o increase on earnings from bottle and can returns, (3) more students doubling earnings in the lightning round of game shows, and ( 4) the Citibank Classic Visa® carcl. It's this last one, however, that affects most students. ~ The Citibank Classic Visa card offers immediate savings to student cardmembers. You can save up to 26°/o on long distance calls versus AT&T with the free Citibank Calling Servicesm from MCI! And you can capitalize on a $20 Airfare Discount 

for domestic flights? Savings on mail order pur­chases, sports equipment, magazines and music also abound. Maximize these savings with a low variable interest rate of15.4°/o3 and no annual fee, and you can significantly improve your personal bottom line (especially if one's net income tends 
No knmm picture of 1-Jilshington sm11ing ex/SLi. Economists believe Washington was unhapp,r hecauw hefelt he could have received a better deal on war supplies.~(he used a Citihank Classic Visa card. he ·would ha~'e been assured ofgelling the best price and probably to be pretty gross). Put another way, one might11nu/d have heen happier (Artist rendering ofholl' he would have appeared on the dollar) 
even have enough savings to reinvest in a CD or two (the musical kind, ofcourse).~ On the way to the record store, or any store for that matter, take stock of the 3 services concerned with purchases made on the Citibank Classic caret. Citibank Price Protection assures one ofthe best prices. See the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150.4To protect these investments, Buyers Security: can cover them agai.n$t accidental damage, fire or theft (ordinarily causes for Great Depressions) for 90 days from the date of purchase.4 And Citibank Lifetime Warranty'm can extend the expected service life ofeligible products up to 12 years.5 ~But perhaps the features which offer the best protection are your eyes, your nose, your mouth, etc.-all featured on The Photocard, the credit card with your photo on it. Carrying it can help prevent fraud or any hostile takeover of your card. (Insiders speculate that it makes quite a good student ID, too.) Even ifone's card is stolen, or perhaps lost, The Lost Wallet'm Service can replace your card usually within 24 hours. ~ So -, never panic. As we all know, panic, such as in the Great Panics of 1837, 1857, and 1929, can cause a 
\ 
downswing in a market. But with 24-hour Customer Service, there's no reason for it. A question about your account is only an 800 number away. (Panic of the sort experienced the night before Finals is something else again.) ~ Needless to say, building a credit history with the support of such services can only be a boost. You're investing in futures-that future house, that future car, etc. And knowing the Citibank Classic Visa card is there in your wallet should presently give you a sense of security, rare in today's-how shall we say?-fickle market. ~To apply, call. Students don't need a job or a cosigner. And call ifyou'd simply like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. Here's the num­ber: 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19. ~The Law of Student 
CITIBAN<O 
CLASSIC
Supply and Demand states, "If a credit card satisfies more of a student's unlimited wants and needs, while reducing the Risk Factor in respect to limited and often scarce resources-with the greatest supply of services and savings possible-then stu­dents will demand said credit carcl." So, demand away-call. 
'Sav_mgs claim is !lased on a 10-mmu~e na~ht/'IOt:ekend call in the 1.911 to 3.000 mileage band using MCTs Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T,s standard calling card rates, effective 4{93. C'itibank Calling Sen K:e kmg d1stance usage cannot be apphed to obtain benefits under any other M(,'l partner program or offer. mcludml!l travel award programs. ·Offer exp1res 6/30/94. M1mmum t1cket purchase pnce IS $100. Rebates are for C'lt1ban_k student cardmcmbe~ on t!dcets 1s.sued by ISE Fhghts onlr The Annual Percentage Rate lOr purchases is 15.4% as of8j93 and may ,-ary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advancesIs 19.8%. If a finance ch~rge IS 1m posed. the m1mm~m IS 50 cents, There IS an add1t1onallinance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% ofthe amount of each cash advance transactionc however. n "Ill not he less than S--~0 or greater than $10.00. Certam condn1ons and exclus1onsapply. P1ease referto your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyer.; Secunty 1s underwntten by The lunch International UK L1m1ted. Ccrtam restnct1ons and hm1tat1onsapply. Underwnttenhy the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Senice lifee~pel'tancy varies by pmdul"l and isatkast the minimum based on retail mdustry data. Details of coverage are available m your Summary of Additional Program Information. Monarch"' Notes are published bv Monarch Press. a d1vision of S1mon & Schuster, a Paramount Communication~ Company. Used hy permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A.,©I993 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC'. 

Monarch Notes® Version: The Citibank Classic VISa card will be there for you with special stu­dent discounts, no fee, and a low rate ... so your own economy will be more like a boom than a bust. Call 1-800-CITIBANK, ext. 19. 
j' 

-_...1:.., 
page20 The Observer • CROSS COUNTRY Friday, October 1, 1993
-
Cross country squads hope to pace home tournament 
Men look to group strategy 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team will have their work cut out for them today, as they play host to several of the nation's top notch teams at the Notre Dame InvitationaL 
The race is set to begin at 5pm at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. and by the time it is over. the Irish hope to be cel­ebrating their second straight victory. 
Today's race will not be as easy as last week's, when the Irish grabbed the top four spots in dominating the rest of the field at the National Catholic Invitational. The Irish runners. ·--led by junior Nate Ruder. amassed an incredibly low 21 
I I 
points in that race. as their
I l 
"pack" running technique
l 
l 
proved to be a great success against the likes of LaSalle, Duquesne. and Canisius. 
Today's race will showcase a 
higher level of competition, as the Irish will lace up against the likes of sixteenth-ranked Eastern Michigan. Auburn, Penn State, and West Virginia. 
While the level of competition may be higher at today's meet, the game plan will remain the same. For the Irish team. strength is definitely found in numbers. 
"Many of these teams have a few good front runners, but we have a great amount of depth," noted last week's first place fin­isher. Nate Ruder. "I think we will do well if we run as a group. It helped us greatly last week, and I think it will contin­ue to benefit us throughout the rest of the season." 
,, 

Today's meet promises to be exciting, and may also prove crucial to the currently ninth­ranked Irish team. In colle­giate cross country. there are nine different sections, and the Irish are in what is arguably the toughest section. 
Many of the schools compet­ing in tomorrow's meet are in different sections than Notre Dame, and performances in such ··cross-section" matchups are often vital to a school. affecting both their national ranking and their bidding for the NCAA championships. 
The importance of today's meet is not lost on the Irish runners. Freshman standout Matt Althoff. who finished eleventh at the National Catholic meet. commented on the importance of today's meet, saying. "This will be an exciting meet, in the sense that we have a lot more at stake than win­ning or losing. The outcome of this race will have a lot of bear­ing on the rest of the season. This meet is definitely a crucial stepping stone in our season." 
The Irish team hopes that they will avoid slipping on this stepping stone, knowing that doing so may result in a dan­gerous fall. By running as a group, they feel that they will be able to prevent one another from stumbling on any such obstacle. 
Women want to show potential to ranked teams 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
SportS Writer 

The Notre Dame women's cross-country team hosts the Notre Dame Invitational this afternoon. The 20 team field will consist of some of the top ranked teams in the nation. 
Alabama, ranked # 11. and Baylor. in the top 20, will be the teams the Irish will try to keep pace with. 
"If we run the way we're capable of we can run right with Alabama," junior Sarah Riley said. Auburn and Illinois State will also add to the com­petitive field. 
After winning the National Catholic Invitational last week, the Irish feel this meet will determine how they can com­pete against the stronger teams. 
"I think this race will be bet­ter because there's better com­petition. We'll be pushed more than we were last week, " com­men ted junior Kristine Kramer. 
The Irish look for strong showing from freshman Emily Hood, who won the invitational last week, in addition to Riley and Kramer. who finished sec­ond and third. "We're going to try to run as best as we can as a team. Although these teams are ranked, we believe we can run right with them." Kramer said. 
There will be some new run­ners who weren't with the var­sity cross country team in the race last week. Sophomore Ann Colonna and freshman Carolyn Long will help the Irish tomorrow. 
If the team runs well. they feel it could greatly benefit them in the future. 
"This is a good chance for us if we run well against these teams," Riley said. "If we need an at-large bid for the NCAA's at the end of the season. we can use this as an argument for getting into (the NCAA's). 

WHERE : 
~fm-H~Gifs-E 


Suzanne sj'{ora{ 

4~ctober 1993
See our t:Beautiju{ fJWses 
-Daily Delivery -Wire Service 

9:00 to S:OO 
-Student Discount 

1· 
Located Comer of 

\ 
Ironwood & Edison 288--7551
i 
Center for

j 
Continuing 
If unu are unsure 
Education

NOWDEliVERS!! 
of what career path to 
Weekend Special: 
,.0:. __ I 
follow-this is the place
14 in. 2 item pizza 
for ~ou. Learn about
only $10 

careers spanning the four
For Carry Out/Delivery call 
business curricula:
273-3890 
marketing.management.
Corne \\'atch the Irish beat Stanford at our Rcstaur·ant location ... 
I 
accounring ano finance. 
·. ~.,.
' I 
2610 Prairie Ave 288-3320 
j : 

Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Men 
continued from page 24 
between the two teams. South Carolina is also one of the only teams in the nation to post a series advantage over Indiana, their opponent on Saturday night. The Gamecocks are 3-t­t against the Hoosiers. 
South Carolina is led offen­sively by forward Chris Faklaris and midfielder Rob Smith. two of Bill Lanza's teammates on the U.S. Under-20 National Team. Faklaris, last week's Metro Conference Player of the Week, has ten goals and two assists on the year. while Smith has contributed with three goals and six assists. 
Defensively. the Gamecocks will need strong play from freshman goalkeeper John Mills. who has recorded one shutout on the season, and senior midfielder Peter Duitsman. the team captain who has also added three goals and an assist offensively. 
Penn State. Notre Dame's opponent on Saturday. takes a 6-t record into the tournament. Their only loss of the season came at the hands of Rutgers. the Irish's first victim. two weeks ago. In their last con­

The Observer/John Bingham Senior captain Mike Palmer (#8) and the Irish will have their hands full this weekend when at least three 

test, the Nittany Uons pounded Temple 7-0. 
Sophomore forward Stuart Reid. last year's Big t 0 Freshman of the Year. leads the Penn State offensive attack with nine goals, while co-cap­tain Chris Kelly has chipped in with five assists. The senior needs just four more assists to break the career record of 29. Freshman standout Richard Wilmot. a soccer giant at 6'3'' and 225 lbs .. has also accepted a leadership role in his rookie season with five goals and three assists. 
The Nittany lions will need two strong efforts this weekend from goalie Michael Barninger. a 6'4" junior with t 9 saves in his seven starts this season. He will be aided defensively by senior co-captain Gavin Reid, a four-year starter. and junior sweeper Joe Corapi. 
Penn State lost six starters from last year's team. but this year's recruiting class has exceeded expectations. keeping the Nittany Lions on the win­ning track. The Irish hold a 1-2 series record against Penn State. though they won their last contest in 1988 by the score of 3-1. 

Attention ND Students from the East Coast! 
By now you have certainly found that what passes for Pizza in the Midwest is NOT the same as you get back home. The thought of4 years of "Franchise Pizza" must be terrifying! But not to worry, you don't have to transfer to Syracuse. (Whew!) 
CASSINO'S PIZZA of NEW YORK makes the only real pizza in town, along with calzones, strombolis, real Philadelphia Cheese Steaks, cold beer and hot & cold subs. Hey, do your Midwest roommates a favor and bring them along. Let them taste what Pizza is supposed to taste like! After all, it's not their fault that they're not from the East. 
CASSINO'S PIZZA Yes, we really are from New York 257-1100 Jefferson & Main, Mishawaka 
----------------------------r--------------------------­
$2 0 FF  •  Every Wednesday  
any Large Pizza  2 Large cheese Pizzas  
with Student ID  Only $9.95  

§ 0 
0
a: Ci ;;;: 
(.9 :::;; 
z K:~ 

~J~EF~FE~R~SO~N~----~ D 
CASSINO'S 
Miss Mass? 

ranked teams invade Alumni field for the Notre Dame Classic tournament. 
she plays before her family and friends.
Soccer 
Renola and sophomore
continued from page 24 
defender Ashley Scharf share Guerrero's enthusiasm. 
··we·re lacking something, 
Renola. who lives twenty five
but I'm not sure what it is," 
minutes from Stanford in Los
said Irish sophomore Rosella 
Gatos. said she was so excitedGuerrero. "We need a spark. 
to go back to California that shesome intensity. or something... 
was '"bouncing off the walls." 
Guerrero should have no problem finding that spark in 
She is also excited to playherself this weekend as she against Stanford. which wasreturns to her home of north­
her second choice of college. "Ifern California. It will be the 
we just go out and play our
first time in the Sacramento 
game. then we should beat St.
native's collegiate career that 

-------------------------------------~----------· 
Chinese -American 1 Restaurant & 1 Cockt11il Lounge 1\.ulhentic Szechuan, 
M<:::1darin & Hunan Cuisir.~ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5 .95 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(next 1:&.1 Randall's Inn ) 

Happy Birthday to 
JrJR[C[A~ 
From your roommates, 
ASHLEY & CHELLY 
Mary's," she said. "I think if we play well we should beat Stanford as well." 
"I just can't wait to get to California:· said Scharf. She lives approximately 35 minutes away in Danville. 
In addition to the games this weekend. the Irish also have arranged two dining engage­ment's. The squad enjoyed sup­per last night in the Renola household, and will travel to Danville on Saturday to eat at the restaurant where Scharf works in the summer. 
SPORTS BRIEFS Anyo11e lntere'!!~ ·in·eq!ch., ing youth h<fl<~Y~ for the'ND youth hocltey leag!Je £all Debbie at 2.77·7519. s ~,. 
The Domer Run featuring 3 and 6 mile runs will be held on Saturday. October 2. at 1 Oam at Stepan Center_.• There is a $5 adavance registration fee at the RecSports office and a S6 fee on the day ()f the race. For m ?Jnfor on. call 
· o ~:-::~:::::~:::~:~~r·~:~i;:;i$( · 

A ·······.· ingday~ 
pl~ed for ··• • Octo~er
tO;':A''bus art ev;ry hOu~. from t . o until 2:3o~ The '{e~ is $ t per person which includes transportation. Those interested should regis· ter in advance in the RecSports office by 5pm on Thursday. October 7. The maximum num~ her per ride is 10. For more information. call RecSports at 6 31,.6100. ttt&;~g, i 
The Women~s Lacrosse team will have practice in front of Cushing this Sunday. Oct. 3 at 4pm, If you }}ave any ques· tions. cali·Emily Hage at 4~ 2856 or Michelle McQuillan at 4-2894. 
Don•t miss this Mass SOPHOMORES! With Father Miscamble presiding whD would miss the Class Mass? October 3, 2:00 pm at the Grotto 
(if rain: Keenen-Stanfortl Chapel} Eteryone will be at the Grotto on October 3rd. Don •t be left out of the service. 
(Sponsored by the Sophomore Class Council) 
Iff Reading:  lfaiah  S:l-7  
*Also, the Service Project is beginning, contact dorm service commissioners.  2nd Reading:  Philippianf  4:6-9  
Watch for more events sponsored by the Sophomore Council.  Cofpel:  Matthew  21:33-43  


Potential Home Buyers 
Rough sawn cedar exterior, 2750 sq. ft., one level, 4-year-old home on the St. Joseph River directly across from the ninth tee of Orchard Hills Countty Club. 
Prime location with quality living, boating, canoeing, kayaking and private tennis court. 
$275,000 by Owner 616-695-5958 3000 White Oaks Lane Buchanan, Michigan 
Open house every weekend 2pm-Spm. 
., 

-page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 1, 1993 Belles even record at 4-4 with win over Hope College 
By jENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's soccer team. 4-4. ended a frustrating 2-game losing streak yesterday by defeating Hope College. 3-2. in double overtime. 
Both goalkeepers proved to be essential in the game. as sophomore Anne Kuehne had eight saves for the Belles. while Paulette Greenfield had 20 for the Flying Dutch. The Belles outshot the Flying Dutch 34-14. 
The Belles led 2-1 at halftime thanks to goals by sophomore Tina Brockman and freshman Brigid Keyes. Senior Jennifer Kaplan provided the assist for Keyes' goal. 
Not to be outdone. the Flying Dutch. now 5-2-2. tied up the score halfway through the sec­ond half. This is how regulation play ended. forcing the first of two 15 minute overtimes. 
The tie was broken in the sec­ond overtime when freshman Lisa Nichols scored what proved to be the game wiruting goal for the Belles. She was assisted by senior Megan Dalsaso. 
Hope coach Stein Sletta was pleased with the way his team performed. but noted that the Belles were more aggressive in taking advantage of opportuni­ties. 
"Saint Mary's played a harder game than us." he said. "Both teams had chances. but they used their opportunities better and that's what makes a game." 
Hope forward Monika Zwart was also impressed by the Belles. but pointed out that her team did not play up to it's abil­ity. 
"Saint Mary's was tough like we knew that they would be," she said. "However. we had trouble communicating in the first half and did not play like we normally do. We were miss­ing a couple key players." 
Belles' coach Tom Van Meter was equally impressed by Hope. 


Beavig and Butt-hea Agree: 
Tom B's Birthday is really Cool! 
Happy 21•tf Mom, Dad, &the Bulldog 
• 
\J .fr 

;j 
(\

-v 
I, 

"They are a much improved team with a good record." he said. "They're not a fluke team." 
Although he was pleased with the win Van Meter did feel that his team played a little slowly. 
''I'm glad to get back up to .500 and it was nice to see oth­ers score, but we played a little tired," he said. The Belles have been plagued with slow play in the second half and Van Meter pointed out that this showed again today. 
"We played lethargically and let them back into the game in the second half. but this time we came back." he said. 
Van Meter feels that the come back was important emotionally for his team. who "could have let it get away." Still. he real­izes that there is work to be done. 
"We haven't turned a corner yet." he explained. "We just have to take it one game at a time." 
This season has taught Van Meter that the quality of oppo­nents has improved greatly and no one can be taken for grant­ed. 
The team will take this phi­losophy into tomorrow's game against Depauw. Although Depauw has an unimpressive 4­5 record. they took regional leader Denison to overtime ear­lier in the season. Saint Mary's and Depauw have gone up against many of the same schools. and Van Meter pointed out that these games have pro­duced near identical results. 
The game will be at 2:00 on the field behind Angela Athletic Facility. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Notre Dame Men's Soccer hosts The Notre Dame Classic Friday 10/1 ND vs. South Carolina 
Saturday 10/2 ND vs. Penn State Both games at 8:00 pm on Alumni Field FREE Admission with Blue and Gold Card -==--.--:-

..-:-=-­

#18 Notre Dame Women's Tennis---­hosts the Eck Classic 10/1 & 2 Start time: 10:00 am*** All Day Courtney Courts/Eck Pavilion 
.~ 

Notre Dame Cross Country -Q"t 
\ 
hosts the Notre Dame Invitational ,~i/ Friday 10/1 Women 4:15 Men 5:00 Burke Memorial Golf Course 
WAOR and The Works Bar and Grill Present: 
at 

The Works Bar and Grill 
Party at The Works!! TONIGHT, October l, The Works Bar and Grill and WAOR host the party of the season!! Come 
celebrate Rocktober with us!! 

Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SPELUNKER 
DoN'T KNOW
R£f WOMrN'S 
FLMn FOOIBr\ LL. 

C) 
,, 0 0 

J' r. ' 
. 
-
. 

.\. ··: 
. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CAl'liN, '(OUR ~'S\ WAS AN. A8SOLIJ\f. 0\SGRf>..CE' liS OB~\<:l\JS iOU \ii\~E~T 
RtAO AN'{ Or 1\.\t: Mfo.-TtR\1\l. 
IN '3\.K_I.\ i'RE%~Tt.ROOS Al'\SW~! 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Fictionai sleuth Lupin
1 "The Front 28 PBS. British Page" version
co-author 31 Updike's "--:
6 Pitcher A Book" 10 Mentor 32 Coal or oil, e.g. 
14 Tryon's "The 
...__ 34Con men
" 36 Handsome
15 St.--, French 
youth

port 37 Carry away 
16 Calla, e.g. 
39 Yuletide symbol n "---Alone," V. 

40 Flax plants 

Herbert song 42 Giddiness
18 Pasta --(with vegetables) 45 Broad view, with "the"
20 Burns's "--o' Shanter" 47 Foil's cousin 21 Computer 50 Org. for Pei follower 51 Overblown 23 Miami's county 52 Torpid 24 Etats---53 Commiseration 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
JAY HOSLER 


0 0 0 
0 
,1. 7' 
,.. 
' . 
-· 

.....~. I -• 
' ,~Qj, 
BILL WATTERSON 
I J\J'ST DO~1 TEST ~t.lL. 
uA vt. 1\..t.LLC 1 1 



42 Schlep 55---California 43 The Furies 57 Dejected 44 Hindu sacred 58"--Gotta 
writings Crow," 1954 46 Test song 48 Tennyson's "lily 59--avion 
maid" 
60 Wharton School 49 Picks deg. 53 Skin 62 Junior 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
OFFICIAflN~ IS fou<n\1 
ENOUGH. ADD DN A C.RooJD CK OBNOXIOV~ &NFRIENOS, DRUNK DORM M£MBf:RS, 
AND  ANNO 'liN~  UTILE.  
PEP  BANDS  AN  THE. .JOB  
BE:COME 5  
A ROYAL  
PAIN.  
0  0  

OUR FIR'ST PR~'SIOEt--\T Wf\'3 NOT 0-\tf ~tf\R:OCt. AN.I) '{OIJ 0\X)\i\ 10 \3£ AS\-\f...~EO TO ~~'JE W~~p 

"SLWER" 
FRI. AND SAT. 8PM AND 10:30PM 
CCUSJHIKNG AUDli1LORliUM 
ADMISSION $2 
' '
. 

I i 

"It's Jim Wilkins, Dave. Same as the others. Trussed up like a Christmas present with his hunting license stuffed In his mouth .... I want this bear. Dave. I want him bad." 
OF INTEREST 


s~;homore Ct~i' G:Otto;M~,,,Wm ~ ....· 
Father Miscamble will preside/ Rain location is -Stanford Chapel. The mass is"sponsored byclass coWlCil. · 
Life Chain will ~~~t"o~ ~d~i~i6i:Ul>e~ 1§;ttat 2: t 
m. at the Rockne Building. Extra signs are avall.able. 
sMcc!lnO:u1yr:!ii:-rJfs~i~UW~~pr
.-=:t:·=···. .... . 
54 Bust; p1nch 56 New Guinean port 57 Quick way to slimness 61 "A Dandy in --," 1968 film 63 White House office 
64 Grease job 
65 Juncture 
66 "Bird thou never 
--":Shelley 67 They follow zetas 68 --up (pays) 
DOWN 

1 Spa for the home 2 Flammable gas 3 Tortilla appetizer 4 Female lobster 5 Almond or olive 6 Beethoven's --Concerto 7 Kind of bride 8 Quashes, 1n law 9 Where to find Ploesti 10 Contributed 11 Yorkshire river 12 Robot pi ay 13 Actress 
Thurman 19 Long Island university 
22 Out of danger 
25 Grew rapidly 
27 Draft org. 28 "The White House is a 
--":T.R. 29 Liberty-­30 Sate 33 Pedate 35 Afroasiatic 
language subfamily 37 Napoleon slept here: 1814-15 38 Half of CVI 41 Coal holder 
DINING HALL 
· Cheese Cauliflour Soup . . ;:i:Veal Parmesan · Y ·· 
Baked Pollack Jardiniere 
St. NarJ••!p 
Citrus Chicken 
.:·.':·:~-:::~;;-. 

Beef and Broccoli Stir Fry Vegetable Lo Mein 

THURSDAY OCT.7 $3 STEPAN "Our Environmental Destiny" 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk----~~ 


, ....................... ~ 1,.\..t_l.. ~ .. :.,,. ····~'•'•;..,;,. • ,.·•• ·~_._t,..,;,,. • .,.\... ~o.~.,.lo. ··'-'•' I L.,." .•·., 
.. 
<(• 

.... 
j 
~ 


SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, October 1, 199 3 
Women's soccer puts rank, record to test in California 
'. 
'j "' ' 
. 1~ 
'; 

l: 

('"­'' 
jl 
I~( 
~ -~ t 
'' 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
\-';, 
··,: 
-.~ In continuing its search for; consistency. the No. 14 Notre ~ I' ' Dame volleyball team faces two
r: different tasks as it goes on the
r 
road this weekend. travelling to Ball State tonight and onto Western Michigan Saturday night. 
These two opponents mark the beginning of one of the longest stretches in the Irish schedule. as the team faces a 
I, 
series of lightly regarded. non­
_, 
conference opponents that will test the squad's powers of moti­
I . vation. Against Ball State. the Irish will find a team that doesn't carry the name of a power­house but is still regarded as a dangerous adversary in the region. Also, the Cardinals will be looking for an upset, as the Irish are the team to beat in the Midwest region. 

MBall State is a program that has continued to improve. and in fact won a bid to the NCAA tournament last year. losing to UCLA... stated Irish head coach 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
The 9-0 Notre Dame women's soccer team will attempt to extend its winning streak to sixteen games this weekend when it travels to Stanford University to face off with the Cardinal and the Gaels of St. Mary's College in California. 
The Irish, who were 1-5-1 against ranked teams last year. are 3-0 against top 20 teams this season and hope to remain unbeaten after their bout with ninth ranked Stanford. 
The 7-1 Cardinal defeated Notre Dame 3­0 in last year's match-up. Although the score was decisive. the playing of the game was much more even. Stanford. which was ranked second at the time. scored two goals in the first ten minutes of the game. The Irish settled down but were unable to recover. 
The Cardinal can rely on a significant size advantage and the strength of their defense. They also have two very danger· ous forwards. The Irish will have to rely on their speed in order to be successful. 
"We're going to have to keep the ball on the ground and run past them," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"I think our offense can definitely score on them." said freshman Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola. "It's going to come down to how our defense handles their forwards. I feel confident." 
"We're definitely confident." Petrucelli said. "We don't feel any of the pressure of · being a favorite." 
The Irish will wrap up the weekend on Sunday against St. Mary's College. The Gaels are typically a border-line top 20 team. according to Petrucelli. They are led by a potential All-American forward. It will be the first time these teams have met. 
"It will be interesting to see how we react after we play Stanford," said Petrucelli. 
The Irish hope to regain their form of last weekend in time for the Stanford match­up. After rolling over sixth ranked N. C. State and Southern Methodist. the squad faltered against a 2-6 Wright State team. 
see SOCCER I page 21 
Volleyball makes light weekend trip 
Debbie Brown. whose team "We really concentrated on now stands 11-3. "They are a our passing, because we have strong program that has expe­to get the percentage of good rience." passes up," she explained. The Cardinals are led by out­"Defensively. we feel pretty 
side hitter Sharon Knecht. whose 92 kills and 78 digs are both team highs. Cassy Herode is the most effective player from the middle-blocker posi­tion. with a .270 percentage and 1.44 blocks per game. Tiffany Stevens runs the offense from her setter position. accu­mulating 226 assists thus far this season. 
Despite the talent. Brown did sense some weaknesses in the Cardinal armor. "Their setter is only 5'3". so we should be able to hit over her," she noted. "Also, while their middle-block­ers are tall. they have trouble moving laterally. so if we spread them out. we should be able to attack." 
In order to scatter the Cardinal net players. the Irish will need better passing than they exhibited against DePaul earlier in the week. This has been a priority in practice according to Brown. 
Cross Country Sarah Riley and Irish . ' 
hope for a strong show­
I. ing today at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
see page 20 

confident with where we are." 
Against Western Michigan. the Irish will face an even greater motivational test. as the Broncos have struggled to a 2-8 record and should not seriously challenge in the match. 
Despite the disparity between the teams. Brown remained cautious. "They have a lot of good athletes, but their pro­gram is in disarray because of a coaching change at mid-sea­son." she stated. 
The main challenge for the Irish this weekend will be to keep their focus against less­talented opponents. and to sus­tain the pressure of being the team to beat each night on the court. 
"It's a new feeling for the team to no longer be the under­dog. so I'm not sure how they'll respond." commented Brown. "However. it should serve as added confidence ... 
Inside SPORTS 
SMC Soccer 

Ranked teams will test men's soccer tn tts own tourney 
By MIKE NORBUT 
S rts Writer 

The eyes of the soccer world will be glued to Alumni Field ,. this weekend. as the Irish men's soccer team will host ._ the Notre Dame Classic. Bill Lanza featuring No. 3 Indiana, No. 12 Penn State. and No. 14 South Carolina. 
Notre Dame. 5-3 on the sea­son. is coming off a 7·0 trounc· ing of DePaul University Tuesday night. Sophomore Bill Lanza led the team with a record breaking five goals in the match. 
The Irish pounded the Blue Demons. allowing them just four shots all game while tally· ing 27 of their own. They will need to duplicate this near­flawless performance this weekend to pull out victories over some of the premier soc­cer programs in the nation. 
"We have to shut down their ability to score goals." said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli, who watched his defensemen and midfielders physically control DePaul's front line Tuesday night. "We're capable of scoring as much as anyone... 
South Carolina. Notre Darne·s first opponent. will enter tour· nament play with a 6-2 record, their last victory coming Tuesday night on their home field, The Graveyard. an 8-0 victory over The Citadel. 
The Gamecocks hold a 1-0 series record against the Irish. their 2-0 victory in 1991 being the only recorded game 
see MEN I page 21 
Women's Interhall 

The Belles evened their record at 4-4 with a dou­ble overtime victory over Hope College. 
see page 22 P.W. drops Lewis to remain undefeated. while Badin hopes to do the same against Lyons. 
see page 16 



r4~DJ{ !ll~ .-....-:---...'! 
i!il....... _ Oc'~<--· -­
~~~.. ·.'' ·.. ' . . . ,-.c._--,-....~: 


ets get ready to rumble . .. Four quarters ofcollege -----­football action to determine the finest football coach in the nation. 
A look at Saturday's matchups
This is a CFA sanctioned bout, hosted here at beautiful 
-see page 2

Stanford Stadium by the University ofStanford Cardinal for the Fighting Irish ofNotre Dame. 
In the Blue and Gold corner-entering the bout with a 70-18-1 record with the Irish and one national title-Lou Holtz. Tight end Tony CUne leads a talented 
In the Cardinal and White corner-with a record of29-group of Stanford receivers 12 at Stanford and three Super Bowl titles with the NFL's 
c 
-see page 3

San Francisco 49ers-Bill Walsh. Ding. Ding. Ding. Ding. Ding. Ding. Ding. 
. 

No college football game boasts more of a mind ~A look at Stanford's success against Notre 
Dame in recent years
matchup than Notre Dame versus Stanford and Lou See RUMBLFJpage 6 -see page 7 



. . ,-... ' 
page2 

on a scale of 1 to 5 QUARTERBACKS 
Stenstrom is looking like a star in Bill Walsh's offense. 
RUNNING BACKS 
Weak link in Stanford's otherwise powerful offense. 
RECEIVERS 
Armour and Cline have shined early in the sea­son. 
0-LINE 
Talented line will make it a battle for Irish 0­Line. 
D-UNE 
Weak front line is the first step in Stanford's weak defense. 
LINEBACKERS 
lnsided linebackers ade­quate, but outside is very weak. 
SECONDARY 
Garnett is Stanford's leading tackler and Vaughn Bryant contin­ues to shine. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Abrams is an outstand­ing kicker and the returners are solid. 
COACHING 
~ 
liZtJ 
Walsh is a genius as his college and pro record indicates. 
FINAL SCORE 
II 
Strong offense and coaching overcomes a weak defense. 

The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

Diverse Stanford offense presents probleJDs 
By JONATHAN JENSEN yards on 55 yards. Associate Sports Editor Still, the Irish will have to elimi­nate the Cardinal short passing 
The most interesting match-up in game, which features the pass­this weekend's game may be catching abilities of Roberts and between Stanford's red-hot signal Allen out of the backfield. caller and the experienced Notre "Both Roberts and Allen catch the Dame secondary. 
ball very well out of the backfield," 
Cardinal quar­said Holtz, "They mix it up really terback Steve well and cause problems for the de­Stenstrom has fense. been perhaps the Stenstrom's favorite target is split hottest quarter­end Justin Armour, a junior who the back in college Irish recruited heavily coming out of football the past high school. three weeks, while the Irish deep Armour has caught 30 balls this four of seniors Jeff Burris, John season for 417 yards (13.9 average), Covington, Greg Lane, and sopho­including a 10-catch, 155-yard per­more Bobby Taylor has been nearly formance in the Colorado upset. impenetrable in the Irish's four wins. "We may not face a smarter 
All Stenstrom has done is produce receiver all year than Justin three-straight games with 300 or Armour," noted Holtz, "He makes more yards passing, leading the adjustments to coverages very well." Cardinal to wins over San Jose State Another top performer for the and Colorado, before last week's 28-Cardinal is tight end Tony Cline.Cline 25 loss to UClA. also had a big game against the
Photo courtesy of Stanford Sports Information
In the Cardinal's 31-28 come-from­Buffaloes, with 11 receptions for 120
Steve Stenstrom is blossoming in Bill
behind win over San Jose State on yards.
Walsh's system. 
September 11th, Stenstrom complet­So the obvious key for the Notre ed 30 of 39 passes for 330 yards and cated offense," said Holtz, who Dame defense tomorrow will be to four touchdowns, including the knows the potency of the Cardinal control Stenstrom and the highly­game-winner, a 14-yarder to David offense. In Holtz's two losses to efficient, Bill Walsh-coached short Shaw with 1:43 left. Stanford, the Cardinal has scored 35 passing game. To do this the Irish 
The next week in Stanford's 41-37 and 33 points. will have to shut down a lackluster upset of the Buffaloes, Stenstrom "Stenstrom may be the best quar­Cardinal running game, while shredded the Colorado defense, terback in the nation, this is his third linebackers and new starters Jeremy going 32-46 for 410 yards and five year as a starter and his fourth year Nau and Jeremy Sample will have to touchdowns, the last being a five­in the program with this offense," help the secondary. yarder to Tony Cline with just eight added Holtz. "They're really capable of coming seconds left on the clock. However, the reason the Cardinal after you," said Walsh of the Irish 
Last week, Stenstrom went 22-34 is 2-2 is the lack of a powerful run­defense, "We'll have to really be for 314 yards and three TO's in the ning game. Last year Stanford had physical if we want to block them." losing cause. gamebreaker Glyn Milburn, who Despite this praise, Walsh, as 
These three big games the last burned the Irish for 119 rushing always. is confident. three weeks for Stenstrom add up to yards. Milburn has since moved on "We know we can play with Notre one major problem for Irish coach to the NFL, and the Irish defense will Dame, since our running and passing Lou Holtz and the Notre Dame line up against halfback Ellery games are wide-open," said Walsh. defense. Roberts and fullback Ethan Allen. "We'll be out there winging it and 
"With them you see a very sophisti-Roberts has only rushed for 201 coming after them." 
Stanford's youth gives Irish the edge 
By BRIAN KUBICKI McDougal. Against Associate Sports Editor Michigan State, the run­ning game appeared to 
Stanford's defense was come of age. But last the second ranked defense week's game against in the nation last year Purdue may have been a when they played the Irish. better indication of the This year they'd be lucky Irish's normal perfor­to have the second 
mance. best defense in San Although Holtz Francisco. says that Stanford 
Having lost both has a solid defen­outside lineback­sive football team, ers, Ron George it is mostly his and Dave Garnett, offense, not corner back Stanford's 
Photo courtesy of Stanford Sports Information
Darrien Gordon, and free defense, that con­
Junior linebacker Coy Gibbs leads a youthful Cardinal 
safety John Lynch, ·Who'· cerns him. 
defense.

caused a fumble-and "I have some concerns 
picked off a pass against about our ability to move third leading tacklers on is sophomore David the Irish last season, the football," he said. the team. Walker at strong safety. Stanford has struggled on Those concerns stem The fact that the line­This youth is not enough
defense. mostly from Notre Dame's 
backers are not one and to convince Holtz that 
The Cardinal has given inability to run the option. two in tackles but the free Stanford's defense is aver­up 31 points per game and Without McDougal's 43-safety is instead, is sugges­age at best. "We have trou­
516.8 yards per game this yard touchdown run tive of the state of ble when people line up 
season. They aren't strong against Michigan, the Irish Stanford's defense. Kevin and play us in man cover­against either the run or option attack has been Garnett is the team tack­age like Stanford does or pass, as their opponents completely unproductive. ling leader, but unless he Purdue did," the coach have capitalized for an "I wish we could (run the is a great athlete, that said. "If people drop back average of 265.3 yards option). It presents a lot of means opposing backs are and play us zone , we can rushing and 251.5 passing. problems for the defense," getting into the secondary throw the ball." But the offense they face Holtz said. "If we can get and their receivers are With all these problemsthis week is not as prolific the ball out on the perime­catching medium to deep on offense, what exactly as Washington's or ter, it opens things up in range passes. does Holtz think he will do Colorado's. Notre Dame the middle." Those problems could be against Stanford? "We ran has had some bright spots The middle could be the the result of inexperience. the trap with Ray Zellars on offense this season, but strongest part of Stanford's The Cardinal starts two (against Purdue), and I they have yet to get on 3-4 defensive formation. freshmen, Brian Batson thought that looked good." track. Coy Gibbs and Toby and Nick Watts, at the out­Chances are, however, 
The win against Norwood return to start at side linebacker spots and that will not be the only
Michigan was spurred by the middle linebacker another one, Eliel Swinton, successful play for the an outstanding individual spots for the Cardinal. at corner back. Joining Irish against Stanford's performance from Kevin They are the second and Swinton in the secondary defense. 



Friday, October I, 1993 
on a scale of 1 to 5 QUARTERBACKS 

McDougal and Failla looked weak against Purdue. 
RUNNING BACKS 

The talent is there but they are still looking for consistency. 
RECEIVERS 

Deep, experienced and sure-handed. Holtz . coudln 't ask for more from his receivers. 
0-LINE 

Zeigler and Lyell are improving to add depth. 
D-UNE 

Pass rush still needs work, but its an intimi­dating group. 
LINEBACKERS 

Bereich is out and Peterson will be rusty after his injury. 
SECONDARY 

Possibly Notre Dame's greatest strength, they continue to improve each week. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Sloppy conditions made for some sloppy play last week, but much improvement needed. 
COACHING 

This is personal to Holtz after an admitted poor performance a week ago. 
FINAL SCORE 
•
Notre Dame is superior 
on paper and they should prove it on the field on Saturday. 

Friday, October 1, 1993 page3
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

Unknown Cline is Stanford's surprise threat 
By SW AMINATHA .GURUDEVAN 
Stanford Daily 
With twelve seconds left in the game, Stanford trails by three points. It's third down and goal from the Colorado seven-yard line. Stenstrom drops back, fires over the mid­dle, and hits Cline for the game-winning touchdown! Wait a minute, he hit Cline for a touchdown? Who is this guy? 
Despite his lack of notoriety, senior tight end Tony Cline has become a valuable receiving threat for the Cardinal this sea­son. Prior to the 1993 cam­paign, Cline had only nine career receptions for 70 yards in three full seasons, being used primarily as a blocker and a backup tight end. 
However, Stanford's 41-37 come-from-behind 
victory  over  
Colorado  last  
Saturday  could~=  

have been renamed the Tony Cline show. In the contest, Cline caught 11 pivotal passes for 120 yards and a touchdown. 








Void at pmtdpallng stores ally. Not vdid wit! CIIY olhtr ohr. 
'• 
ally brings {the team) together," Cline said. "It compares to the Notre Dame game last year-it gives us conr.t..dence that we can come from behind and win in the end." 
players, and were the most Cline's play has impressed

receptions by a single Cardinal 

Stanford coach Bill Walsh.
receiver since tight end Jim "he's improved dramaticallyPrice caught 14 passes from 

from a year ago," Walsh said.
Steve Smith against Notre 

"This last spring practice he
Dame in 1989. 

began to catch the ball very
"(The Colorado game) was a 

well, and his confidence hasgreat win for us, because it re-
Football Wee.kend s,eeial 
-.· ~-(• .i· ? 1 ..·: :~· . . . . . .· ~. .. .~~}-~ .. ··: .·· ~.~ ..
I
. . . ··.·.···-····.·-·.·.·.·.··.·.... ·,··.·--....
IJIJII."·.w\,.­
ONE TOPPING 
2 $18.95
FOR 

tlult'• ov_. 41oot ol ,&za ••• 60 .,ec:taftlllue •Bee.!!! 
DOMINATOR DEUVERED 
TO STUDENTS ONLY 
really improved." 
Cline partlS' attributes his re­cent success to the fact that the opposition has played loose pass defense against the Cardi­nal receivers in the first two games, allowing him to get open. 
"{Colorado ran) a zone where they dropped their linebackers really deep-it really gives you the opportunity to exploit the middle," Cline said. "As a tight end, you can sit down i the mid­dle of a zone and be open." 
Cline said successfully filled the void in the Cardinal offense created by tight end Ryan Wetnight's graduation after last season. 
This season, Cline has 18 re­ceptions for 218 yards and a touchdown. He ranks fourth in the Pacific 10 conference and 22nd -in the nation with six re­ceptions per game. Also, his 
72.3 yards per game places eighth in the Pac-10. 
Cline stressed that the Cardi­nal needs to run the ball better in order to have continued aeri­al success. "We really need to get our running game going to be a complete offense," Cline said, "As soon as we get our running game going, our pass­ing game will be that much more effective." 
And Cline will be over the middle, just waiting to catch the ball. 
TOPPINGS PIZZAS 12" MEDIUM 15" X-LARGE 
ONIONS G&EEMPEPP 
PEPPEilONI BAM 
MUSHROOMS SAUSAGE BLA.Cit OUVES 
CHEDDAR CHEESE BOT PEPPERS BACON 
PIMEAPPI.E 
!:::::::::=:::::'"''~""'·=·=~ 

1-Topping  5.95  6.95  
2-Toppings  6.95  7.95  
Additional Toppings Available  -$1.00 each  

GET A 2nd PIZZA (SAME SIZE)'FOR ONLY $4.00 MORE!!!!! 
SPECIALTY PIZZAS 
Veggie Meatzza Bacon Cheeseburger Hawaiian Deluxe PARTY PACK* 
12" MEDIUM 7.95 7.95 7.95 6.95 7.95 11.99 
15" X-LARGE 8.95 8.95 8.95 8.95 7.95 13.95 
*PARTYPACKincludes...1PTZZAS(l-Topping) + l TWISI'YBREADW/SAUCE + lCOKE~rDIET COKE(2-Uter) 
Others To Watch 

STEVE STENSTROM Honorable mention All-Pac 10 QB a year ago, guiding Stanford to a 10-3 mark. 

JUSTIN ARMOUR Caught 36 passes for 626 yards from his tight end spot as a sophomore. 

KEVIN GARNETI Stanford's leading tackler this season with 46 total 
stops. 
CRUST' 
STYLES 
THIN 
BAND· TOSSED 
PAN 
HOURS:··· · "" 
Sun-nu 11n~ ~ 
Fri&Sat 11amm21111 



page4 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday , October 1, 1993 
CARDINAL 


Bill Walsh 
Fourth season at Stanford. 

Career Records: Overall at Stanford 29-12; vs. Notre Dame, 1-0. 
Previous Coaching Experience: head coach at Stanford (2 years before last season's return, 1977-78}; head coach of NFL's San Francisco 49ers . 
.·. . . 
GB.. 5--9 175 Jr.. ILB 6-2· 230 Fr. 
Career Highlights: Has a bowl win in each of his three 
SS · 6-1 ·195 So... 51 J. Wmgard OLB 6-4 220 Jr. 
collegiate coaching seasons; led the 49ers to three
3 ftmC31:et 00 6-4 180 Fr. 52 Toby Norwood ILB 6-0 215 Sr. 
Super Bowl wins; 1992 team finished 10-3 and in the 5 ScoC: Frost 08 6-3 210 Fr. 54 Nick Watts OLB 6-4 205 Fr. 
4 -.lkyalt CB 5-10 166 Sr 
53 John Sirrs OLB 6-1 210 So. 

top ten of the polls.6:::We& V11::11B PK 5-7 160 So. •. 55 Justin Strand ILB 6-2 215 Fr. rllBultililllfl 08 6-4 210 Jr. •·.56 Scott Whitt c 6-5 260 Jr. 8~Biis CB 5-10 175 So. 57 Kurt Criter OlB 6-3 225 Jr. 
-----1993 Statistics 
9 BieiSNiAton RB 5-=11 100 Fr. .·• 58 Dave Grable ILB 6-3 225 Jr. ~ OB 6-1 195 .. 59 T.J. Gayncx OG 6-5 275 Jr. 
RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE
1 Leroy Pruitt WR 5-9 170 Fr. .·· · 00 Tyrone Parker DE 6-4 290 Sr. 
YDSIGM NO YDS AVG TO
12 Brian Manning WR 5-11 170 Fr. · 61 Steve Frost C 6-2 260 Jr•. 
Roberts 45.5 55 182 3.3 1 
Prost 17.7 6 53 8.8 0 RUSH REC RET TOT AVG Mitchell 11.5 12 46 3.8 1 Mitchell 46 79 319 444 111.0 
'IS MliaUeatlJhler ILB 6-1 230 Sr. ·..' 62 Carl Mennie OT 6-5 270 Jr. 
~~ Kl:f.cht OLB 6-4 220 Sr. .• 63 Parker Bailey OG 6-7 230 Sr. 
Allen 11.3 13 45 3.5 0 Armour 0 417 0 417 104.3
1S Jamr\Alebb WR 5-9 170 So. ·· 64 Erik Hen1ing OG 6-6 280 So. 
Comella 3.0 4 12 3.0 0 Roberts 182 126 0 308 n.o Cline 0 236 0 236 59.0
11 Otoo Gan'4l CB 5-9 170 Jr. 65 Brian Cassidy 0G 6-5 295 Sr. 
PASSING 

Allen 45 115 0 160 40.0
Chris~ 08 6-1 197 Jr. ffi MikeJerich OT 6-6 280 Sr. 
Manning 1 141 0 142 35.5 COMP ATT PCT YDS TO INT LG Shaw 10 122 0 132 33.0 Stenstrom 99 147 67.3 1216 13 5 51 Comella 12 10 96 118 29.5 
8 S. Stenslran QB 6-2 215 Fr.. · 67 Clark Masters OG 6-3 260 So. 
Rogrr Bcidan RB &.10 180. Sr. 68 Ryan waters OG 6-5 265 Jr. 
Frost 6 8 75.0 76 0 0 19 Pruitt 0 6 54 60 15.0
LeonViders OlB ~ 200 Fr. RyanTumo DE 6-6 250 So. 
Ozzie GPnldo FL 5-9 165 Jr. 70 Koo LOOOII' OT 6-7 285 So. 
RECEIVING 

£.ilvidllilw SS5-10 100 71 John Hebert NT 6-5 250 Jr. 
NO YDS TO SCORING SUMMARY
AVG LG
ScdU.mge RB 5-9 185 Jr. n Jason Fisk NT 6-4 280 Sr. 
Armour 30 417 13.9 5 48 
Eltla&AIIell FB 6-1 205 Sr.. ·. 73 Seth Dittlmn OT 6-7 270 Sr. 
Cline 20 236 11.8 1 27 1 2 3 4 T Roberts 16 126 7.9 2 29 Opponents 19 38 41 26 124
JaRJjHopli.fns FB. 6-1 Z15 ·74 Glen Cavanaugh C 6-6 290 Sr. 
Allen 14 115 8.2 1 19 Stanford 14 42 16 39 111
J. P-atllmicJn CB 5-10 170 Sr. · 75 Steve Hoyem OT 6-8 290 Sr. 
Manning 7 141 20.1 2 37 
Shaw 6 122 20.3 2 51
MattVillgls P 6-0.200 Jr. 76 Jeff Bailey OT 6-7 290 Sr. 
BmtymDavis CB 64 170 Jr. 77 Jeff Buckey OG 6-5 280 So 
SCORING
FIELD GOALS 
-PAT-

OaifL)' JaxiJs RB 5-10 1'95 Fr. Bryan Werrt!! DE 6-5 240 Fr. 
1993 STANFORD 
TO 2pt 1pl FG PTS

~FS 6-0 190 79 Allen~ NT 6-4 275 Jr. 
G-39 40-49 50+ LG 

Armour 5 0 0 0 30
Abrams 1·2 1-2 0-() 42 

SCHEDULE AND RESULTS
"19'MQ OlB 6-2 215 00 Justinftmw' TE 6-6 215 Jr. 
Abrams 0 0 13 2 19 
Roberts 3 0 0 0 18 
Manning 2 0 0 0 12 
. r.t~ RB 6-0 210 Fr. . 81 Andre Ki!Wdn Fl 6-2 185 So. 
Sept. 4 at Washington 14-31
. . ~11 210 Sr. 82 Mark Harris WR 6-4 100 Jr. 
Shaw 2 0 0 0 12
Sept. 11 
31-28
~ 6-1 215 FL . . 83 Marton Evans WR 6-0 180 So.. . PUNTING 
Cline 1 0 0 8 
Allen 0 0 0 6
Sept. 18 41-37
~;~ fSS..11 190 Sr.~, '84 David Shaw Fl 6-1 185 Sr. 
NO AVG LG Mills 22 40.2 50

~--:r." t:M·':.::~n :B 6-J 7JO So.: :85 Greg Siwek RR 6-1 180 Jr. 
Sept. 25 25-28 
KICKOFF RETURNS
C.'BI!dhls' · CB-5!1 ~Vrung WR5-11 180 Fr. 
Oct. 2 12:30 
NO AVG TO LG

t«ooM!t!~ P &9 175 §.~87 TonyCiioo TE 6-5 240 Sr. 
Oct. 16 1:00 
Mitchell 13 24.5 0 38
INTERCEPTIONS

3S N:iat'TlSai:fr, FR 6-3 240 Fr. ·· ., 88 Tommy Hanson TE 6-5 225 Jr. 
Comeila 4 24.0 0 47
Oct. 23 1:00 
· . ~~i':tn flroc,: i>t:·g ::S 6-3 220 Jr. ·89 A. White WR 6-0 175 Fr. 
Oct. 30 1:05 
PUNT RETURNS
·40 d:.2..:;;1 Oi:sen DE 6-4 252 Jr. . · 00 Jeff Hansen TE 6-6 225 Jr. 
NO YDS TO LG 

Nov. 6 1:00
Bryant 1 27 0 27

John Hmon SS 6-2 100 Jr · 91 Jason White OLB 6-3 235 So. 
NO AVG TO LG
Knacht 1 14 0 14 

Nov. 13 1:00 
Pruitt 6 9.0 0 21
Brian Batson OLB 6-4 215 Fr. 92 C.~ TE 6-2 220 Sr. 
Garnett 0 0 0 

Grenardo 2 1.5 0 3
Nov. 20 1:00
UJ1m ~ILB 5-11 225 So. 93 Matt~ OLB 6-6 225 Fr. 
J. Morabito ILB 6-1 229 So. 94 BrOO 8<Klger TE 6-4 245 Fr. 
Josh Wright CB 6-2 180 Sr. .. 95 Coy Gibbs ILB 6-0 220 Jr. .46 Ji11'11TrfK1ein OLB 6-3 225 Sr.···· 96 David Carder DE 6-5 270 Jr. 
DEFENSE TEAM STATISTICS
47 Hartwell Brown OLB 6-3 230 Sr ·c '97 Pete Swanson DE 6-5 278 So. 48 Mike Hall ILB 6-2 225 Jr · 98 D. Phillips OLB 6-3 217 Jr. A PBU FR su
T TOT SAC OPP 49 M. Yurochko ILB 6-0 205 So.'<' 99 R. Thorms ILB 6-0 220 So. Garnett 31 15 46 1 0 0 
., ' ........•... ,··~ Gibbs 18 20 38 0 0 0 First Downs 78 47 NO!Wood 18 18 36 1 0 1 by rushing 18 62 Sims 13 13 26 0 0 0 by passing 57 36 Fisk 13 13 26 0 0 0 by penalty 3 4 Walker 17 7 24 0 0 2 Total yardage 1539 2067 Bryant 11 7 18 6 0 0 Offensive plays 272 328 Carder 4 12 16 0 0 0 Avg. yards per play 5.7 6.3 Hatzenbuhler 10 5 15 0 0 0 Total yards I game 384.8 516.8
CARDINAL 

14 Rushing yards 
:,TE Tony Cline Sr. t Batson 8 6 0 0 0 247 1061 
Ellis 7 7 14 0 0 0 Rushing plays 116 211
OFFElSE 

T Jeff Bailey 
Sr. J Swinton 12 1 13 1 0 0 Rushing yards I game 61.8 265.3 G Jeff Buckey Knecht 2 9 11 1 0 0 Passing yards 1292 1006 Parker 5 6 11 0 0 1 Passes completed 105 65
QB Steve Stenstrom 
Sr., 
So. 1 

Watts 7 2 9 1 1 1 Passes attempted 156 117c Glen Cavanaugh Sr. Hebert 5 4 9 0 0 0 Passes intercepted 5 3 Swanson 5 4 9 1 0 0 Passing yards t game 323.0 251.5 Davis 6 1 7 1 0 0 Fumbles • fumbles lost 7·4 13.6 
G Mike Jerich Sr. 
T Seth Dittman Sr. 
Strand 5 1 6 0 0 0 Penalties • penalty yards 20. 175 24.231
Fl David Shaw Sr. 
Wrigh1 3 2 5 0 0 1 3rd clown conversions 24-53 32-59 
45.3 54.2 White 4 0 
SE Justin Armour Jr. 
Grable 3 2 5 0 0 0 percentage 
RB Ethan Allen Sr.• 2 2 0 0 
Phillips 3 1 4 0 1 0
TB Ellery Roberts 
Sr.J Vickers 1 2 3 0 0 0 
t'•l.. 
X X X 

STANFORD STADIUM
X X X X X X X X 
CARDINAL 
Built in 1921 
DEFENSE 
Capacity: 85,500 
. Largest Crowd: 
0 0 0 0 
0 0 0 
94,000 (1935} 
Surface: Grass 

0 0 0 0 
ND's Record There: . 2-1

T Tyrone Parker G Jason Fisk 

~ The 72 year-old stadium 
T David Carder 
· has been home to Super

OlB Brian Batson 
Bowl XIX, the 1984 

ILB Toby Norwood 
ILB Coy Gibbs 
Olympic Soccer competi­

OLB Nick Watts 
tion, and Herbert 

CB Eliel Swinton 
Hoover's 1928 accep­

SS David Walker 
tance of the presidential

FS , Kevin Garnett
..._. 
nomination.
:-a...··:l; 
. i' 

CB .. Vaughn B!Yant 
_.--L-._=-c•-_,.._:·~-''--~·"--c=-,::..-..-.-_ ~-_:~;.:-_; 
..:r~.: ~4.~\.'-. 
Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
FIGHTING IRISH 
Lou Holtz 
. j Eighth season at Notre Dame. 
Records at Notre Dame: Overall 70-18-1; at Home 35-7­1; on the Road 35-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. t~Career Records: Overall186-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; -vs. Stanford 3-2 -0. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons). Arkansas (7 sea­sons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset No. 3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. Topped No. 3 Michigan this year. 
1993 Statistics 

RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE 
YOSIGM NO YOS AVG TO LG RUSH REC RET TOT AVG Becton 70.0 43 210 4.9 0 40 Becton 210 45 0 255 85.0 Zellars 49.3 43 197 4.6 1 23 Miller 0 145 187 332 83.0 Kinder 46.5 37 186 5.0 0 33 Zellars 197 23 0 220 55.0 McDougal 15.2 21 61 2.9 2 43 Kinder 186 0 0 186 46.5 Farmer 11.3 11 34 3.1 1 7 C. Johnson 0 90 53 143 35.8 Clarl< 10.0 12 40 3.3 0 8 Mayes 0 134 0 134 33.5 
Dawson 8 82 0 90 22.5
PASSING 

McDougal 61 0 0 61 15.2 
Clarl< 40 8 0 48 12.0 
RATING COMP ATT PCT YOS TOINT LG Farmer 34 0 0 34 11.3 
143.9 38 61 62.3 562 2 2 50 Chryplewich 0 34 0 34 8.5 
122.6 5 6 83.3 28 0 0 11 Lytle 19 0 0 19 4.8 Davis 8 0 6 14 4.7
RECEIVING 

Stafford 0 12 0 12 4.0 
NO YOS AVG TO LG SCORING SUMMARY 
8 145 18.1 0 50 8 134 16.7 0 42 1 2 3 4 T 6 23 3.8 1 16 Notre Dame 17 30 33 27 107 5 82 16.4 0 32 Opponents 10 13 6 20 49 5 45 9.0 1 12 4 90 22.5 0 43 
SCORINGFIELD GOALS 
TO 2pt 1pt FG PTS 11·39 40-49 50+ LG 
Pendergast 0 0 11 8 35 Pendergast 8-10 o-o o-o 35 
McDougal 2 0 0 0 12 Zellars 2 0 0 0 12 Edwards 2 0 0 0 12 Becton 1 0 0 0 6 Miller 0 0 0 6
PUNTING 

Farmer 0 0 0 6 NO AVG LG 
Burris 0 0 0 6 Leonard 16 40.2 55 Janlll . ,_-.. · -. + ~~--36.0 ·C• ~-33 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG
INTERCEPTIONS 

C. Johnson 1 53.0 0 53 Miller 4 16.3 0 20 Davis 1 6.0 0 6 
NO YDS TO LG 
PUNT RETURNS
Burris 2 61 0 43 B. Taylor 1 22 0 22 Bereich 1 21 1 21 
NO AVG TO LG Covington 1 0 0 0 
Miller 11 11.1 1 56 

DEFENSE  TEAM STATISTICS  
T  A  TOT  PBU  SAC  FR  NO  OPP  
Young  24  13  37  0  3.5  0  
Goheen  20  15  35  2  0.5  0  First Downs  75  70  
Bereich  17  9  26  1  0.0  1  by rushing  41  24  
Lane  21  2  23  3  0.0  0  bypassing  29  42  
Flanigan  14  8  22  0  1.0  0  by penalty  5  4  
Hamilton  13  8  21  0  1.0  3  Total yardage  1380  1196  
B. Taylor  18  2  20  3  1.0  1  Offensive plays  257  264  
Gibson Covington  16 16  4 4  20 20  0 2  0.5 0.0  0 1  Avg. yards per play Total yards I game  5.37 345.0  4.53 299.0  
Burris Magee Wynn  14 10 8  5 4 3  19 14 11  2 2 0  2.0 0.0 0.0  0 0 0  Rushing yards Rushing plays Rushing yards I game  790 190 197.5  341 130 85.2  
Knight Nau  5 5  2 2  7 7  0 2  1.0 0.5  0 0  Passing yards Passes completed  590 43  855 86  
Sample  6  0  6  0  0.0  0  Passes attempted  67  134  
W81JS8.Y Wooden  3 3  2 1  5 4  0 0  0.0 0.0  0 0  Passes intercepted Passing yards I game  2 147.5  5 213.8  
Graham  2  2  4  0  0.0  0  Fumbles • fumbles lost  4-3  8·7  
Clarl<  2  1  3  0  0.0  0  Penalties -penalty yards  21-1n  26-247  
Peterson  2  0  2  0  0.0  0  3rd down conversions  19-48  25-58  
Berry  1  1  2  0  0.0  0  percentage  39.6  43.1  
Tatum  1  1  2  0  0.0  0  4th down conversions  Q-1  3-4  
Dansby  1  1  2  0  0.0  0  percentage  0.0  75.0  

25. Randy Kinder TB 6-1 205 Fr. 73. Mike Doughty ~ 6-8 255 Fr 


----The History of the Series---­
The Last Time: The Records: 
Stanford 33, Notre Dame 16 Stanford took advantage of five Notre·· Notre Dame leads 6-3 
Dame turnovers to come back from a 16­Last ND Win: 1991 (42-26)
0 deficit. Last SUWin: 1992 (33-16) 
The Irish offense was frustrated as their vaunted running game behind Longest Series Streaks: Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks only ND-3 (1964, 1988-1989) managed 154 yards, and quarterback SU-1 (1963, 1990, Rick Mirer managed only 13-38 passing.· 
1992)
and an interception. 

At Stanford Stadium:
Stanfoed 's offense had little trouble Glyn Milburn 
Notre Dame leads series 2-1 moving against the Irish. Running back Glyn Milburn ran for 119 yards on 20 carries and Steve Stenstrum threw for 215 yards, hitting 21 of 32 attempts. 
NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH 
1993 ROSTER 
1. Derrid< Mayes SE 6-1 205 So. 45 . Jeff Kilburg · lB 6--4 250 Fr. 
2. Dan Farrell FL 6-0 164 Jr. 45 .John Lynch WR 6-2 179 So. 
2. 
L..eShane saddler FS 5-11 194 Sr. 46 .Dan McConnell FL 5-JO 115-&l. 

3. 
Ron Powlus as 6-4 210 Fr. 47. Pete Bereich LB 6-2 237 Sf: 


4. Lee Becton TB 6-0 190 Jr. 48. Renaldo Wynn OE i-3 238 So 5 Paul Failla QB 6-2 193 Jr. 49. A. Peterson tB &.0 223 8: 
6. 
Mike Miller fl 5-7 157 Jr. 50. Greg Stec C · 6-2 250 Jr. 

7. 
Dean Lytle FB 6-3 240 Sr. 51. Melvin Dansby lB 6-4 2!0 a 

8. 
Clint Johnson SE 5-8 180 Sr. 52. G. Holden DT 6"4 245. Jr. 

9. 
Jeff Burris FS 6-0 204 Sr. 53 .Jim Kordas OG 6-5 Y1 Jr.. 


10. Adrian Jarrell FL 6-0 194 Sr. 54 .Justin Goheen lB 6-2 226 .& 
11 . Tom Krug QB 6-5 210 Fr. 55. Oliver Gibson . NT 6-a liS Sr: · 
11. Tom MacDonald SS 6-0 189 Jr. 56 .S. Armbruster C &:0 285 -;JJ;_ 
12 . K. Pendergast K 5-10 168 Sr. 56 .Huntley Bakicll DE 6-2 ~ Jr. 
13. 
Brian Ford K 6-4 190 Fr. 57. A. Kaczenski TE 6-4 240 FF. 

14. 
Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 170 Fr. 57. Joseph Adent lB ~t1 200-So. 


14. 
Colin Rittgers P 6-2 210 So 58. Jeremy Nau DE 1M ·~ Jr. 

15. 
Kevin McDougal as 6-2 194 Sr. 59. Lance Johnson C &.;~. 265 St. 

16. 
Chris Parenti QB 6-1 193 Sr. 60. Bert Berry lB i-4-230 Fr. 


16. 
Brian Perry DB 6-1 205 Fr. 61. Tim Ruddy . C 6-3 2B6 Sr. 

17. 
Brian Magee SS 5-10 199 So. 62. M. McCullough OG 6-3 m So. 


18 . Wade Smith QB 6-3 178 So. 63. Jason Beckwith 0G 5-2 ~ Sf.· 
19. Anthony Swiney OB 5-11 180 Fr. 64. Steve Misetic OG &-5 -· 
~ :~ka=i ~ ~; ~~ ~: :: ~:n=~ .tii tt·:H~ 
21. 
Bobby Taylor FS 6-3 191 So. 67. Mark Zalaveski. 0G 6-6 2!5 .Jr. 

22. 
Rob leonard KP 6-1 186 Sr. 68. Jeff Riney . OG 6-5 26S .t· • 




22 
. Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 187 Jr. 69. David Quist DT ~ '118 So. 

23 
. Brian Baker SE 5-10 179 Sr. 70. Mike McGlinn OT il6 285 Sr. 

24 
. C. Stafford fl 5-10 182 Jr. 71. Herbert Gibson Gf &6 ·2119 Jr. 


25. 
BrentBoznanski KP 6-3 174 Sr. 72. Ryan Leahy Of 6-4 2m Jr. 

26. 
Drew Marsh K 6-1 187 Sr. 74 . Will Lyell 


26. 
Mark Monahan DB 6.0 175 So. 75. Aaron Taylor 

27. 
TracyGraham CB 5-10 197 Jr. 76. Jeremy Akers 

28. 
Ron Hardin FB 6-2 227 Fr. n. Dusty Zeigler 


29 
.John Covington SS 6-1 211 Sr. 78. Jordan Halter 

30 
. Marc Edwards FB 6-2 220 Fr. 79. Chris Kufpeikis 

31 
. Robert Farmer TB 6-1 215 Fr. 80. Oscar-McBride 


32. Willie Clark CB 5-10 181 Sr. 81. Rich Sauget 
33. Greg lare CB 5-9 180 Sf. 82 .Joe Carroll 
34 . Brian Meter-~ .~. fH ·452-· Sr.-·~ t5. ...........!@ 
34. Ray Zellars FB 5-11 218 Jr. 86. Ben Foos · 
35. Tim Klusas TB 5-8 186 Jr. 87. lakef>awson SE 6-t 102 .. 
35. 
Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So. 88 . Leon Wallace lE &:3' 26i So.. . 

36. 
Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 Jr. 89. John Kouris lf s:3 2• $c.. 

37. 
Travis Davis TB 6-0 192 Jr. 90 .Brian HamiUon OE 6-3 215 SJ; 

38. 
Rick Lozano FB 5-10 189 Sr. 91. Darnell Smith DE 6-5 246 Fr. 


38. 
Sim Stokes DB 6-2 200 Fr. 92 .John Taliaferro DT 6-3 l6l Jr. 

39. 
Kinnon Tatt.Kn DB 6-1 195 Fr. 93. Paul Grasmanis 


39. Marcus Thorne LB 6-0 215 So. 94. Reggie Fleurima 
40 . Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 (JJ7 So. 95 . Chris Clevenger 
41. Joe Sabey LB 6-2 218 So. 96 .Thomas Knight 
42. Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 155 Jr. 96. S. Schrolfner 
42. 
Alton Maiden DE 6-4 260 So. 97. Bryirlt Young 

43. 
Bill Waijasy LB 6-2 224 So. 98. P. Chryplewicz 

44. 
Jim Flanigan NT 6-2 276 Sr. 99. Cliff Stroud 


........__,_., 

-~ ~ • ,..__.• -·~ 4--"! 
IRISH 
Oscar McBride
Fre Sr.,
OFFENSE .T Todd Norman Sr. 
• G Ryan Leahy Jr. QB . Kevin McDougal 
Sr. f 

.G · ·, 11m Ruddy Sr. G Mark Zataveski 
Jr. J

T Aaron Taylor Sr. t FL Lake Dawson Sr.. · SE Derrick Mayes So. IITB Lee Becton Jr. I 
FB Ray Zellars Jr. 1 
X X 

X X X X X X X X X 
•· 

IRISH 
0 i) 0 u
DEFENSE 
t)
0 0 o---i) 

0 0 


T Brian Hamilton Sr. NG Oliver Gibson Sr. T Bryant Young Sr. DE Jim Aanigan Sr. ILB Justin Goheen Jr. ILB Jeremy Sample Jr. 
OLa JeremyN~ Jr. 
CB Greg LaOO · Sr. ss John Covington Sr. 
FS Jeff Burris Sr. CB Bobby Taylor so. 
" 


page 6 
Rumble 
continued from page 1 
Holtz against Bill Walsh. 

Football games are won on the field, but they are controlled from the side­lines. Saturday, Holtz and Walsh will engage in a giant chessmatch-two grandmasters considered by their fans to be the next Bobby Fischer. 
"Football is a vicious sport played by gentleman," said Holtz. Tomorrow it will be a vicious game orchestrated by geniuses. 
That is the way the fans see it, the press, maybe even the players. But the two coaches see this game as just that, a game. And the respect they have for one another is overflowing 
"I stand in awe of Bill Walsh and what he's done," said Holtz. "I'm very impressed with what he's done and he's done it with class." 
"I have known Lou for years, we're not close friends but I've observed him from a close distance," counters Walsh. "I know he stands for the best in college athletics." 
Holtz's ego took its lumps last year. Walsh and Stanford came to South Bend and ended Notre Dame's national title hopes with a 33-16 upset. 
In the post-game press conference Walsh wanted to make it clear how the game was won. 
"Notre Dame did not lose this football game, we won it," he said. "We won it." 
The Cardinal won because Notre Dame relinquished a 16-0 halftime lead thanks to five turnovers. It was a bitter loss for Holtz, who had to have heard the post game chatter that Walsh bested him in their first matchup. 
"Make no mistake about it. They just flat out whipped us last year," said Holtz. 
Notre Dame's coach doesn't take too kind to whippings. He thrives on chal­lenges and adversity. Walsh offers both. 
''I'm not as good a football coach as Bill Walsh." said Holtz. "I feel lucky to be coaching at Notre Dame. The guy has Friday, October 1' 1993
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA COVER STORY 

done wonders. He is amazing. 
"Whenever someone achieves a cer­tain amount of success they have an ego. I'm no different, but I like to think I keep my ego in check." 
That is easy to do when looking at Walsh's credentials-three super bowl championships and a bowl appearance each of the three years he has coached at Stanford. But it is not the accomplish­ments as much as the legend which de­mands respect. 
"I don't want our players sitting there and saying, 'Wow they have Bill Walsh,'" said Holtz. 
But it may be unavoidable. Walsh cre­ated the short passing game which has overcome NFL offenses, and currently is making Cardinal quarterback Steve Stenstrom into an All-American. 
"You see more of a sophisticated offense when you face Stanford," com­mented Holtz. "They are obviously very good teachers out there." 
Holtz can teach himself, and he has done plenty this week. Quarterback Kevin McDougal has been getting extra attention (screaming) from his coach this week. McDougal needs the work, but maybe this game is a little more important. 
It is difficult to believe that Holtz doesn't put an asterisk next to this game. Stanford has knocked the Irish out of the national championship picture two of the last three years. This game has meant more than others and will again this year. 
"We are going to have to play the best game of the year to beat Stanford," said Holtz. 
At his weekly press conference Walsh hinted that this game was special for the Irish. He even mentioned that he feels Notre Dame had been waiting for this game for some time. This reasoning a solid explanation for the Irish's poor showing at Purdue last weekend. 
But Holtz blamed himself for the lack­luster performance.. "I did a poor job preparing the team this week," Holtz said following the game. "We did not execute well. As a teacher, that is my 
Bill Walsh feels that his team needs to play its best just to stay with the Irish. 
fault." 

Holtz has made sure that will not be a problem this week. "We will be pre­pared," he said. 
Following the Michigan win two weeks ago, Holtz's ego must have shot to the moon. Notre Dame won because he out­coached Gary Moeller. He gave his team the opportunity to win against a superi­or team. Walsh would love to do the same this week. 
"For Stanford to win over Notre Dame is a tremendous accomplishment," Walsh said. "We have to play well just to hold our own and on the rare occasion 
Photo courtesy of Stanford Sports Information 

win." 
Holtz's team is unbeaten and No. 4 in then nation. The Cardinal slipped out of the top 25 following a 28-25 loss to UCLA last weekend. Perfect scenario if you're a Cardinal fan. But if the Irish win, what will that mean to Holtz? 
Nothing. Because as he puts it this isn't a coaching battle. 
"If this is Holtz versus Walsh, Notre Dame will lose," he said. "This game is Stanford versus Notre Dame. 
"This game will not be won by out­coaching." 
Ding. Round 1. 
i 
~ 
I 
I 
I' 
I 

' 

•
beat stanford 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 17 r.-------~r-------__StaQ(ord_______13 
1Late Night Special11 1-14': Larg.e ,r Party Pack ,r 1~ 14" La g ,r------------. 
9 p.m.• close 1 Topptng Ptzza II 4 14" L II r e I ··~­1 1-14"Large II $695+Tn II ~ ';lrge ulToppingPizzal HOURS I 1 Topping Pizza II or 2 -14" Large II 1 T'?ppmg II with 2 cans of ~oke 1* 
I $S95 II 1 Topping Pizzas II Ptzzas 11 and Breadsttx I M--Th: 11:00 a.m... 1:00 a.m. I -+Tax II $1122 +Tax II $2295 II $1QOO I Fri..Sat: 11:00 a.m... 3_:00 a.m. I _ _ ....II ~ 1 +~ •Tax Sun: Noon .. 1:00 a.m. ~ IAdd . I I
•;-·~\1/irhAnvOrherCounnnT_..,·"•""" .J•N~"""'"""''T""""'"'V ldW'thA Orh_, ...11;.;: ltlona Topplngs.95¢each. ftiiJOIIIb,• IIAdditiona1Toppings95¢each -· ~ 
----------~t.:.l. ~ ~ ~~--~VahdWithAnyOrherCoupon ..J INotValidWithAnyOtherCou .J 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 

-


The Most Popular Number on Campus! 

l__ 

Friday, October 1, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page7 
In recent years the Cardinal has been the champion at Notre Dame Stadium 

T 
wice in the last three seasons, an underdog Stanford team has come into Notre Dame Stadium and defeated the Irish. Both times the Irish were unbeaten and serious national championship contenders. This year the scenario is the same as the Irish travel to Palo Alto to face Bill Walsh and the Cardinal. 
Stanford's recent success against Notre Dame has turned a once unimportant game into a national event. Saturday, they meet again. 
.....

Stanford is hoping for a repeat of its 1990 and 1992 victories that knocked Notre Dame out of the title hunt and brought respect to its once dormant pro­gram. 
Lou Holtz won't allow the Irish to dwell on the past, but as they prepare for Saturday's game, the memo­ries remain. 
D
erek Brown never felt more alone, Stanford quarterback Jason Palumbis setDerek Brown but plenty of people shared his up each of the Cardinal scores with long anguish. passes, six of which landed in the hands of
drops Notre He watched the ball fall helplessly from his the nation's leading rusher Ed McCaffrey. hands to the turf as time expired on that It was the first home loss for the Irish inDame's sunny October Saturday in 1990. four years and it was only the 10th time in Top-ranked Notre Dame's national cham­74 games that a top-ranked Notre Damechance for pionship hopes expired with the clock and team was upset. 
Stanford escaped with a 36-31 win. That it came at the hands of an unranked,
victory 

"I couldn't believe I dropped it," said a 0-3 Stanford team made it even more dejected Brown after the game. "My team­painful. mates told me they loved The fact that three fumbles me and it shouldn't have Cardinal 36 led directly to Cardinal scores come down to that. But I also didn't ease the pain. have no excuses." I • h But Notre Dame still had a 
Rick Mirer lofted a perfect nS 3 1 chance, although a long shot. pass toward the endzone Mirer took the controls with that fell within reach of the diving Brown. 31 seconds to drive 70 yards. 
·But the bali-as it had been all day long­Already a Sports Illustrated "Golden Boy" was a little too slippery for the Irish players after choreographing two brilliant and im­to grab. probable comebacks against Michigan and 
Tommy Vardell's four touchdowns helped Michigan State, Mirer led the Irish to within Stanford erase a 17 -point deficit on the way .six seconds of another heart-stopping win. to the stunning upset. Instead, Irish hearts just stopped when the "We call No. 44 'Touchdown Tommy,"' ball slipped through Brown's fingers. 
Stanford coach Dennis Green said. "We "I don't know if I've ever been in a loss want you to know he's getting the ball. We that was this difficult." Irish coach Lou Holtz know he's getting the ball. Everybody knows said after the game. "I liked what I saw on 
he's getting the ball. And now we want you the last drive, the way we battled back. It to stop him." would have been another miraculous come­
Notre Dame couldn't stop him near the back." goal line. Vardell managed only 37 yards on It was a miraculous comeback for 13 carries, but his four touchdowns made Stanford. And a monumental collapse for the difference in the game. Notre Dame. 
B 
illed as an epic battle between game and so was the result. 
Notre Dame

two of the greatest minds in Notre Dame's offense, so potent in college coaching, many people the first half, stalled in the second half 
fumbles big

believed the 1992 Notre Dame-Stanford against the nation's second-ranked 
game would be won on the sidelines. defense. lead awayLou Holtz vs. Bill Walsh. The Irish managed just six rushing It didn't turn out that way. yards in the third quarter 
in second

Leading 9-0 before Holtz even picked "They scored 30-some odd point on his first blade of grass, Notre Dame us," Mirer said. "I didn't think we'd half looked like it would wash away all the have any trouble scoring. All we need­ugly memories of the 1990 collapse for-ed was one score in there somewhere ever. to stop the whole thing (the Stanford 
The Irish may have explosion), but we forgotten that game, Cardinal 33 couldn't get it." 
but Stanford didn't. Trailing 20-16, Mirer .. 
The lead was 16-0 Irish 16 directed the longest before the Cardinal Irish drive of the second decided it was time to half early in the fourth stir memories of the past. quarter. But Stanford·s John Lynch 
Again it was turnovers that plagued spoiled the comeback with an intercep­Notre Dame. The usually sure-handed tion on the Cardinal eight yard-line. Irish coughed the ball up four times, "I think the turning point was when allowing Stanford to creep back into we drove all the way down inside their the game. ten yard-line and threw an intercep­
"Stanford's defense banks on causing tion," Holtz said. confusion," Irish quarterback Rick But Walsh wouldn't allow Notre Mirer said. "Their goal is to make you Dame's turnovers to taint his team's make a mistake." victory. 
The Irish offense made plenty of mis-"The last time {1990), there was an -.J takes and Stanford took advantage, excuse when Stanford beat Notre Dame scoring 27 second-half points on the here," he said. "This year, there is no way to a 33-16 win. excuse. We beat Notre Dame pure and 
The Indian summer Saturday after-simple." noon was a carbon copy of the 1990 




Photo courtesy of ND Sports Information Derek Brown's dropped pass on the last play of the game gave Stanford a 36-31 win in 1990. 


~ --~-------------------------------­
pageS 

L
ou Holtz was asked at his Tuesday press 
""""'"""e when he one could t thinking about the national championship. smiling, the coach replied, "When you enter the 
Brian Kubicki bowl game undefeat­ed." L..=.~-~~~~--'1 
Many fans have already gone against the advice of Holtz and started figuring 
ho must beat whom to give Notre Dame a shot. This interesting logic which mixes and thought leaves most Irish fans Notre Dame beating Alabama in the 
Bowl on January 1. 
No matter how they figure it, though, is one thing that almost always ust happen in their scenarios-Notre 
Those fans that have the Irish celebrat­ng in New Orleans have obviously ked ahead to Florida State. It is a game in November when the is unfriendly, even more so to 
from the sunshine state. Under these conditions, it is easy to · an irish upset of the Seminoles. 
It's also easy to convince oneself Notre Dame can breeze through the of the schedule. The toughest road after this weekend is against BYU. 
But what about this weekend? 
The Irish travel to California to face a 
d team that dropped out of the 25 just last week. Stanford has had troubles this season, even if they upset Colorado. But even a weak team is dangerous for the Irish. In the past three years, Stanford has ce marred Notre Dame's (mostly) tine record and thus their national 
In 1990, the unranked Cardinal came to South Bend and upset the top­Irish, 33-31. Last season the Irish had already tied a with Michigan when faced Stanford. This hampered Notre 
Ll...,....., 

national championship chances, but remained hopeful without a loss. Stanford erased that hope with a 33-16 rout of the Irish. 
History therefore suggests that N Dame cannot overlook Stanford, even the Cardinal is not playing well. ~..........,.... generally, the lesson to be this history is that no team can be over­looked. 
That lesson may have already bee 

their impressive offensive 
Syracuse Syracuse Syracuse Syracuse Syracuse 
taught twice this season. Northwestern ve Notre Dame an early scare, and wasn't ready to roll over for the 
Despite their big win over Michigan 


Last week: 23-21 
Clemson N.C. State Clemson N.C. State N.C. State 
against Michigan State, Notre Dame has 
Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State 
inconsistent this season, and ques­
vs Vanderbilt Auburn Auburn Vanderbilt Auburn
still hover over this season whi 
usc Arizona usc Arizona Arizona
lbetl!'an amidst controversy. 
Indiana Indiana Indiana Indiana Indiana
than anyone, Holtz is aware 
well as each opponent the Irish must up to January 1, starting with 
At least this year, the game isn't at 
this. "We're not in the championship ace, we're running for our lives," he ..All we want to do is survive each every week and have someone fall the hand grenade and save the 
Last week's guests: 24-20
otre 
Dame's early performance tempered by Holtz's own 
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
EDITOR: George Dorhmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Brian Kubicki, Jonathan Jensen 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 1, 1993 
Boston College tries to 
/'; TOP:2S! 
-' ' 
9f26 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 9119
regroup at Syracuse 
1. Florida 1545 1
------Games of interest----­
2. Alabama 1482 2
Boston College at rolling up well over 500 yards a game. 
3. Miami 1414 3
No. 13 Syracuse 
Ward has reduced his inter­
4. Notre 1361 4
ceptions as he has grown into one
Future Irish opponent Boston 
5. Florida 1297 5
of the nation's top signal-callers,College heads to the Carrier Dome and Derrick Brooks may end up 
6. Nebraska 1180 6
to face Syracuse in a games featur­being just as good as Marvin "Shade 
ing two teams looking to turn 
7. Ohio State 1157 7
Tree" Jones. 

around their seasons. 
8. Michigan 1077 8
The Screaming Eagles started the year off with two losses to Miami No~vvestern at 
9. Penn State 1058 9 
and Northwestern. Despite a No. 8 Ohio State 
10. Oklahoma 1006 10
promising season, BC has not gotten enough production and big plays The Wildcats head into what will 
11. Tennessee 943 11 
from quarterback Glenn Foley and be a frenzied Ohio Stadium as the 
12. Arizona 782 15
running backs Dwight Shirley and Buckeyes have their best team in Darnell Campbell and they miss last years and are looking to stay unde­
13. Syracuse · 750 12 
year's defensive star, linebacker feated to set up a battle for the Big 
14. Texas A&M ._ 2-1-0 718 14
Tom McManus. Ten title against Michigan on However, the Eagles are coming November 20 in Ann Arbor. 
15. Washington ~~\ 2-1-0 688 16 
off a 66-14 thrashing of Temple to Northwestern, to their credit, 
16. North Carolina . · 4-1~0_ ., 648 18 
up their record to 1-2, and Syracuse have bounced back from their loss 
17. California ~-4-l}.o 514 20
has been equally unimpressive. In at Notre Dame to win two over last week's 24-21 win over Cincin­Boston College and Wake Forest, 
18. Louisville # ..· , 4-P-o · 429 24 nati, where the Orangemen had to but it looks as if they've met their 
19. Colorado ' -2~--Q 1 426 13 
score three touchdowns in the sec­match. ond half to avert the upset at home. The Buckeyes boast a passing 
20. Brigham Young ,--~~ 415 21 
The week before Syracuse tied a attack led by quarterback Bob 
21. Virginia -.___ 4-0-0 390 22
Texas team that was trounced by Hoying, big play receiver Derrick 
22. Wisconsin 4-0-0 338 23
Louisville 41-10 last week. Galloway, and tight end Cedric Saunders. 
23. Auburn 188 25 
Georgia Tech at However, the strength of the OSU 
24. North Carol 73 19
offense may be their running game. 
No. 1 Florida State 
Senior fullback Jeff Cothran and 
25. West Vi 71 
senior tailbacks Raymont HarrisThe Seminole scoring machine and Butler By'not'e are top-notch, 
Others 3~.~ Mississippi
rolls on after taking a week off, as and have made Buckeye fans forgetFSU is a 31 1/2-point favorite over a 
34, Virginia ~cal 17, UCLA
Robert Smith. 

down Georgia Tech(l-2) team. The The defense is just as dominating, 
17, Northwestern 13, Baylor 11, Georgia Tech
Yellow Jackets did give Clemson all led by sophomore man-child Danthey could handle in last week's 16­
10, Fresno State 7. Hawaii 7, Kansas State 7,
Wilkinson and senior All-Big Ten13 loss in Death Valley, but they 
San Diego 
· 4, Indiana 2,
selection Jason Simmons. 
lack the firepower that is needed to Ohio State is one of the most com­
Clemson 1.
keep the Seminoles at bay. 
plete teams in the country and after Charlie Ward and Co. are in the feasting on the Wildcats they couldtop-five in the country in nearly give the Wolverines major problems 
The ObserveriBrendan Regan

every offensive and defensive cate­down the road. 
gory, leading the nation in offense, 
C' 

1 ~­
PEERLESS·
The Observer Sports staff tries its •PROGNOSTICATORS 
luck against a few of the members of the unbeaten and third­ranked women's soc­cer team. Since no one else can beat them we thought we'd give it a shot. 



Brian Kubicki Jonathan Jensen George Dohnnann Jason Kelly Bryan Connolly Overall: 28-16 Overall: 27-17 Overall: 27-17 Overall: 27-17 Overall: 0-0 Last Week: 5-6 Last Week: 5-6 Last Week: 6-5 Last Week: 7-4 Last Week:­
Sports 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State Aorida State 
Depart01ent 
Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan 
Unbeaten 
Virginia Tech West Virginia Virginia Tech West Virginia Virginia Tech Mississippi Mississippi Mississippi Mississippi Mississippi 
Wo01en's Soccer Team. 


#4 Notre Dame at Stanford Chris Petrucelli Alison Lester Michelle McCarthy Ragen Coyne Ashley Sharf£ Head coach Senior Sophomore Sophomore Sophomore
Georgia Tech at #1 Florida St. 
forward midfielder midfielder defender
Iowa at #8 Michigan 
Boston Coil. at #13 Syracuse 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 
#24 N.C. State at Clemson 
Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State Florida State 
Northwestern at #7 Ohio St. 
Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan
Vanderbilt at #23 Auburn Syracuse Syracuse Boston College Boston College Syracuse 
USC at #12 Arizona Clemson N.C. State Clemson Clemson Clemson 
Indiana at Minnesota Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Ohio State Virginia Tech at W. Virginia Auburn Auburn Auburn Auburn Auburn 
usc Arizona

Mississippi at Kentucky Arizona usc usc 
Indiana Indiana Indiana Minnesota Minnesota Virginia Tech West Virginia West Virginia West Virginia Virginia Tech Kentucky Mississippi Mississippi Mississippi Mississippi 




